TEMPORAL RELAT IONS:REFERENCE OR D ISCOURSE COHERENCE?Andrew Keh lerHarvard UniversityAiken Computat ion  Laboratory33 Oxford StreetCambridge,  MA 02138kehler@das.harvard.eduAbst rac tThe temporal relations that hold between events de-scribed by successive utterances are often left implicitor underspecified.
We address the role of two phenom-ena with respect o the recovery of these relations: (1)the referential properties of tense, and (2) the role oftemporal constraints imposed by coherence relations.We account for several facets of the identification oftemporal relations through an integration of these.IntroductionTense interpretation has received much attention i  lin-guistics (Partee, 1984; Hinrichs, 1986; Nerbonne, 1986,inter alia) and natural anguage processing (Webber,1988; Kameyama et al, 1993; Lascarides and Asher,1993, inter alia).
Several researchers (Partee, 1984;Hinrichs, 1986; Nerbonne, 1986; Webber, 1988) havesought to explain the temporal relations induced bytense by treating it as anaphoric, drawing on Reichen-bach's eparation between event, speech, and referencetimes (Reichenbach, 1947).
Specifically, to account forthe forward progression of time induced by successivesimple past tenses in a narrative, they treat the simplepast as referring to a time evoked by a previous pasttense.
For instance, in Hinrichs's (1986) proposal, ac-complishments and achievements x introduce a new ref-erence point that is temporally ordered after the timeof the event itself, "ensuring that two consecutive ac-complishments or achievements in a discourse are al-ways ordered in a temporal sequence."
On the otherhand, Lascarides and Asher (1993) take the view thattemporal relations are resolved purely as a by-productof reasoning about coherence relations holding betweenutterances, and in doing so, argue that treating sim-ple and complex tenses as anaphoric is unnecessary.This approach parallels the treatment of pronoun res-olution espoused by Hobbs (1979), in which pronounsare modeled as free variables that are bound as a by-product of coherence resolution.
The Temporal Cen-tering framework (Kameyama et al, 1993) integrateslWe will limit the scope of this paper by restricting thediscussion to accomplishments and achievements.aspects of both approaches, but patterns with the firstin treating tense as anaphoric.We argue that aspects of both analyses are necessaryto account for the recovery of temporal relations.
Todemonstrate our approach we will address the followingexamples; passages (la-b) are taken from Lascaridesand Asher (1993):(1) a. Max slipped.
He spilt a bucket of water.b.
Max slipped.
He had spilt a bucket of water.c.
Max slipped because he spilt a bucket of water.d.
Max slipped because he had spilt a bucket ofwater.Passage (la) is understood as a narrative, indicatingthat the spilling was subsequent to the slipping.
Pas-sages (lb-d) are instead understood as the second clauseexplaining the first, indicating that the reverse temporalordering holds.
We address two related questions; thefirst arises from treating the simple past as anaphoric.Specifically, if a treatment such as Hinrichs's is usedto explain the forward progression of time in example(la), then it must be explained why sentence (lc) is asfelicitous as sentence (ld).
That is, one would predict aclash of temporal relations for sentence (lc), since thesimple pasts induce the forward progression of time butthe conjunction i dicates the reverse temporal ordering.The second question arises from assuming that all tem-poral relations are recovered solely from reasoning withcoherence relations.
Specifically, because the use of thesimple past in passage (lc) is as felicitous as the pastperfect in passage (ld) under the explanation interpre-tation (in these cases indicated explicitly by because),then it must be explained why passage (la) is not un-derstood as an explanation as is passage (lb), wherein each case the relationship needs to be inferred.
Wepresent our analysis in the next section, and accountfor these facts in Section 3.The AccountWe postulate rules characterizing the referential natureof tense and the role of discourse relations in furtherconstraining the temporal relations between clauses.The rules governing tense are:3191.
Main verb tenses are indefinitely referential, cre-ating a new temporal entity under constraintsimposed by its type (i.e., past, present, or fu-ture) in relation to a discourse reference time 2 tR.For instance, a main verb past tense introduces anew temporal entity t under the constraint prior-to(t, tR).
For simple tenses tR is the speech time,and therefore simple tenses are not anaphoric.2.
Tensed auxiliaries in complex tenses are anaphor-ic, identifying tR as a previously existing tempo-ral entity.
The indefinite main verb tense is thenordered with respect o this tR.The tenses used may not completely specify the implicittemporal relations between the described events.
Weclaim that these relations may be further refined byconstraints imposed by the coherence relation operativebetween clauses.
We describe three coherence relationsrelevant to the examples in this paper and give temporalconstraints for them.
3Nar rat ion :  The Narration relation is characterized bya series of events displaying forward movement oftime, such as in passage (la).
As did Lascaridesand Asher (1993), we capture this ordering as aconstraint imposed by the Narration coherence re-lation itself.- 4(2) If Narration(A, B) then ta < tBParal le l :  The Parallel relation relates utterances thatshare a common topic.
This relation does notimpose constraints on the temporal relations be-tween the events beyond those provided by thetenses themselves.
For instance, if passage (la)was uttered in response to the question What badthings happened to Maz today?
(inducing a Paral-lel relation instead of Narration), a temporal or-dering among the sentences i no longer implied.Exp lanat ion :  The Explanation relation denotes acause-effect relationship with reversed clause or-dering, as in sentences (lb-d).
Therefore, the sec-ond event is constrained to preceding the first:(3) If Ezplanation(A,B) then tB < tATo summarize the analysis, we claim that tense oper-ates as indefinite reference with respect to a possiblyanaphorically-resolved discourse reference time.
Thetemporal relations pecified may be further refined as2This term is borrowed from Kameyama et al (1993).3We assume here that the two clauses in question arerelated directly by a coherence relation.
This may not bethe case; for instance the use of a past perfect may signalthe start of an embedded iscourse segment, as in Web-ber's flower shop example (Webber, 1988; Kameyama et al,1993).
How this account is to be extended to address coher-ence at the discourse segment level is the subject of futurework.4The Cause-Effect relation also has this orderingconstraint.a by-product of establishing the coherence relationshipextant between clauses, Narration being but one suchrelation.We nowrepeated(4) a.b.c.d.Examplesanalyze the examples presented in Section 1,below, using this approach:Max slipped.
He spilt a bucket of water.Max slipped.
He had spilt a bucket of water.Max slipped because he spilt a bucket of water.Max slipped because he had spilt a bucket ofwater.The implicit ordering on the times indefinitely evokedby the simple pasts in passage (4a) results solely fromunderstanding it as a Narration.
In passage (4b), theauxiliary had refers to the event time of the slipping,and thus the past tense on spill creates a temporal en-tity constrained to precede that time.
This necessitatesa coherence relation that is consistent with this tem-poral order, in this case, Explanation.
In passage (4c),the times evoked by the simple pasts are further or-dered by the Explanation relation indicated by because,resulting in the backward progression of time.
In pas-sage (4d), both the tense and the coherence relationorder the times in backward progression.Restating the first problem noted in Section 1, iftreating the simple past as anaphoric is used to accountfor the forward progression of time in passage (4a), thenone would expect the existence of the Explanation re-lation in passage (4c) to cause a temporal clash, wherein fact passage (4c) is perfectly felicitous.
No clash oftemporal relations is predicted by our account, becausethe use of the simple pasts do not in themselves implya specific ordering between them.
The Narration rela-tion orders the times in forward progression in passage(4a) and the Explanation relation orders them in back-ward progression in passage (4c).
The Parallel relationwould specify no ordering (see the potential context forpassage (4a) given in Section 2).Restating the second problem noted in Section 1, iftemporal relations can be recovered solely from reason-ing with coherence relations, and the use of the simplepast in passage (4c) is as felicitous as the past perfectin passage (4d) under the Explanation interpretation,then one asks why passage (4a) is not understood as anExplanation as is passage (4b), where in each case therelationship needs to be inferred.
We hypothesize thathearers assume that speakers are engaging in Narrationin absence of a specific cue to the contrary.
The useof the past perfect (as in passage (4b)) is one such cuesince it implies reversed temporal ordering; the use ofan explicit conjunction indicating a coherence relationother than Narration (as in passages (4c-d)) is anothersuch cue.
While passage (4a) could be understood as anExplanation on semantic grounds, the hearer assumesNarration since no other relation is cued.320We see several advantages of this approach over thatof Lascarides and Asher (1993, henceforth L&A).
First,L&A note the incoherence ofexample (5)(5) ?
Max poured a cup of coffee.
He had entered theroom.in arguing that the past perfect should not be treatedas anaphoric:(6) Theories that analyse the distinction between thesimple past and pluperfect purely in terms of dif-ferent relations between reference times and eventtimes, rather than in terms of event-connections,fail to explain why \[(4b)\] is acceptable but \[(5)\] isawkward.
(Lascarides and Asher, 1993, pg.
470)Example (5) indeed shows that coherence r lations needto be utilized to account for temporal relations, but itdoes not bear on the issue of whether the past per-fect is anaphoric.
The incoherence of example (5) ispredicted by both their and our accounts by virtue ofthe fact that there is no coherence relation that corre-sponds to Narration with reverse temporal ordering.
~In addressing this example, L&A specify a special rule(the Connections When Changing Tense (CCT) Law)that stipulates that a sentence containing the simplepast followed by a sentence containing the past perfectcan be related only by a subset of the otherwise possi-ble coherence relations.
However, this subset containsjust those relations that are predicted to be possible byaccounts treating the past perfect as anaphoric; theyare the ones that do not constrain the temporal orderof the events against displaying backward progressionof time.
Therefore, we see no advantages to adoptingtheir rule; furthermore, they do not comment on whatother laws have to be stipulated to account for the factsconcerning other possible tense combinations.Second, to explain why the Explanation relation canbe inferred for passage (4b) but not for passage (4a),L&A stipulate that their causal Slipping Law (statingthat spilling can cause slipping) requires that the CCTLaw be satisfied.
This constraint is imposed only torequire that the second clause contain the past per-fect instead of the simple past.
However, this does notexplain why the use of the simple past is perfectly co-herent when the Explanation relationship is indicatedovertly as it is in sentence (4c), nor do they adequatelyexplain why CCT must be satisfied for this causal awand not for those supporting similar examples for whichthey successfully infer an unsignaled Explanation rela-tion (see discussion of example (2), pg.
463).Third, the L&A account does not explain why thepast perfect cannot stand alone nor discourses gener-ally be opened with it; consider stating sentence (7) inisolation:(7) Max had spilt a bucket of water.5For instance, in the same way that Explanation corre-sponds to Cause-Effect with reverse temporal ordering.Intuitively, such usage is infelicitous because of a depen-dency on a contextually salient ime which has not beenpreviously introduced.
This is not captured by the L&Aaccount because sentences containing the past perfectare treated as sententially equivalent to those contain-ing the simple past.
On the other hand, sentences in thesimple past are perfectly felicitous in standing alone oropening a discourse, introducing an asymmetry in ac-counts treating the simple past as anaphoric to a pre-viously evoked time.
All Of these facts are explained bythe account given here.Conc lus ionWe have given an account of temporal relations whereby(1) tense is resolved indefinitely with respect o a possi-bly anaphorieally-resolved discourse reference time, and(2) the resultant temporal relations may be further e-fined by constraints that coherence relations impose.This work is being expanded to address issues pertain-ing to discourse structure and inter-segment coherence.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported in part by National ScienceFoundation Grant IRI-9009018, National Science Foun-dation Grant IRI-9350192, and a grant from the XeroxCorporation.
I would like to thank Stuart Shieber andBarbara Grosz for valuable discussions and commentson earlier drafts.Re ferences(Hinrichs, 1986) Erhard Hinrichs.
Temporal anaphorain discourses of english.
Linguistics and Philosophy,9:63-82, 1986.
(Hobbs, 1979) Jerry Hobbs.
Coherence and corefer-ence.
Cognitive Science, 3:67-90, 1979.
(Kameyama et al, 1993) Megumi Kameyama, Rebec-ca Passoneau, and Massimo Poesio.
Temporal center-ing.
In Proceedings of the 31st Conference of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics (ACL-93),pages 70-77, Columbus, Ohio, June 1993.
(Lascarides and Asher, 1993) Alex Lascarides andNicolas Asher.
Temporal interpretation, discourserelations, and common sense entailment.
Linguisticsand Philosophy, 16(5):437-493, 1993.
(Nerbonne, 1986) John Nerbonne.
Reference time andtime in narration.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 9:83-95, 1986.
(Partee, 1984) Barbara Partee.
Nominal and tempo-ral anaphora.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 7:243-286,1984.
(Reichenbach, 1947) Hans Reichenbach.
Elements ofSymbolic Logic.
Macmillan, New York, 1947.
(Webber, 1988)Bonnie Lynn Webber.
Tense asdiscourse anaphor.
Computational Linguistics,14(2):61-73, 1988.321
