A COMPUTATIONAL V IEW OF THE COGNIT IVESEMANTICS  OF SPAT IAL  PREPOSIT IONS*Pat r i ck  Ol iv ie rCentre for Intelligent SystemsUniversity of WalesAberystwythDyfed, SY23 3DB, UKInternet:  p lo~aber .ac .ukAbst rac tThis paper outlines the linguistic semantic om-mitments underlying an application which au-tomatically constructs depictions of verbal spa-tial descriptions.
Our approach draws on theideational view of linguistic semantics developedby Ronald Langacker in his theory of CognitiveGrammar, and the conceptual representation fphysical objects from the two-level semantics ofBierwisch and Lang.
In particular the dimensionsof the process of conventwnal imagery are usedas a metric for the design of our own conceptualrepresentation.INTRODUCTIONAn increased interest in ttle semantics ofspatial language has accompanied the recentrise in popularity of cognitive linguistics (see\[Rudzka-Ostyn1988\]), yet computational ap-proaches are thin on the ground.
This can inpart be accounted for by the rather descriptiveand unformalized nature of the theories devel-oped, but is more likely due to the adoption ofan ideational view of linguistic meaning which,it seems, is an anathema to computational lin-guists.
In this paper we take a serious, if infor-mal, look at Ronald Langacker's theory of Cogni-tive Grammar \[Langacker1987\], \[Langacker1988a\],\[Langacker1988b\], more specifically its commit-ment to conceptualization a d the use of conven-tional imagery.The first section of this paper introduces thesemantics of projective prepositions (eg.
"in frontof", "behind", "left of", "right of"), illustratingthat these seemingly simple predicates are supris-ingly complex and ambiguous.
In the light ofthis discovery the following sections consider Lan-gacker's view of linguistic meaning, and the designof a conceptual representation for spatial preposi-tions motivated by the consideration f the various*Thi~ research wa~ kindly funded by the Mat-sushita Electric Industrial Company Limited.Jun-ichi TsujiiCentre for Computational LinguisticsUniversity of ~anchesterInstitute of Science and Technology ,Manchester, M60 1QD, UKInternet: tsujii~ccl.umist.ac.ukdimensions of conventional imagery.
The repre-sentation has been implemented for English spa-tial descriptions and after demonstrating its utilityfor the automatic depiction of verbal descriptions,we finally contrast our approach against previousat tenapts.THE SEMANTICS OFPROJECTIVE PREPOSITIONSIn this section we characterize the components ofthe spatial meaning of projective prepositions thathave motivated our interest in cognitive linguis-tic approaches.
Throughout, the decoding prob-lem, that is, generating adequate meanings for alocative xpression i  a particular situation, is ourbenchmark for representational adequacy.The spatial meaning Of a projective preposi-tional predication (eg.
"the chair is in front of thedesk") can include: a constraint on the proximityof the located (LO) (eg.
"the chair") and refer-ence objects (RO) (eg.
"the desk"); a directionalconstraint on the LO relative to the RO; and arelative orientation between the speaker, LO andRO.
Constraints are of an intrinsically fuzzy na-ture such that different relative positions and ori-entations of the speaker, RO and LO satisfy thepredication to different degrees, and combinationsof constraints on the RO and LO originating fromdifferent predications must be readily accommo-dated.PROXIMITY  CONSTRAINTSProjective prepositions necessarily place a con-straint on the proximity of the located objectand the reference object.
Predications uch as"the chair is in front of the desk" constrain the"desk" and "chair", to some degree, to be prox-imal to each other.
Conversely projective prepo-sitions such as "away from" predicate a distal re-lationship between the located and reference ob-ject.
The degree of the proximity expressed in anyprojective prepositional predication varies accord-3032INTRINS IC  In the intrinsic case the referenceframe is centered at the R0  and adopts the intrin-sic orientations of the RO.
Thus a LO is deemedto be "in front of" the RO under.an intrinsic read-ing if it is located in the direction defined by thevector that is the half-plane of the front of the R0.In figure 1 stool number I is intrinsically "in frontof the desk".DEICT IC  The reference frame for a deictic in-terpretation is centered at the speaker and adoptsthe speaker's orientation; deictic readings canbe invoked explicitly with qualifications such as"from where we are standing"; when the RO hasno intrinsic or extrinsic sideness relating to thepreposition used; or when intrinsic or extrinsic in-terpretations are ruled out on other grounds (eg.the impossibility of spatially arranging the objectsas required by the interpretation).
In figure 1 stoolnumber 2 is deictically "in front of the desk".Figure 1: Intrinsic, deictic and extrinsic uses of"in front off'ing to a number of considerations including: thespatial context (the spatial extent and content ofthe scene described); and the absolute and relativesizes of the LO and RO (eg.
a car that is "left of"a lorry is typically less proximal than an apple andorange similarly described).D IRECT IONAL CONSTRAINTSIn addition to the constraint on the proximity ofthe LO and RO, projective prepositions place aconstraint on the position of the LO relative toa particular side of the RO.
In the case of theintrinsic interpretation (see section ) of a predi-cation such as "the stool is in front of the desk",the "stool" is located in some region of the spacedefined by the half-plane that is the intrinsic frontof the "desk".
Intuitively, the closer the "stool" isto the region of space defined by the projection ofthe desk's dimensions into this space, the more thespatial arrangement conforms to the prototypicalinterpretation of the predication.REFERENCE FRAMESIntrinsic, deictic and extrinsic interpretations ofprojective prepositions differ according to the ref-erence frame with respect o which the directionalconstraint is characterized \[Retz-Schmidt1988\].Figure 1 is an example of a scene that might giverise to predications which invoke each of these ref-erence frames.EXTRINS IC  Extrinsic readings can occurwhen the RO has no intrinsic sides relating to thelocative preposition (eg.
for objects such as trees)but is in close proximity to another object that isstrongly sided (eg.
such as a house); in which casethe reference frame capturing the intrinsic orienta-tions of the stronger sided object can be adoptedby the RO.
Referring to figure 1 the chair is ex-trinsically "in front of stool number 3"; here thestool has inherited an extrinsic front from the rightwall.INTERACTING CONSTRAINTSTypically an object is located with respect o morethan one RO by the means of multiple spatialpredications.
This places a requirement of onthe meaning representation f spatial predicationsthat they must capable of being easily combined,to give rise to a cumulative meaning.COGNIT IVE  GRAMMAR ANDL INGUIST IC  MEANINGCognitive granlmar is comprised of five basicclaims as to the composition of linguistic mean-ing, following \[Langacker1988b\] these are:1.
Meaning reduces to conceptualization.2.
Polysemy is the norm and can be adequatelyaccommodated by representing the meaning alexical item as a network of senses related bycategorizing relationships of schematicity or ex-tension.3.
Semantic structures are characterized relative tocognitive domains.
Domains are hierarchically304organized in terms of conceptual complexity,where the characterization f a concept at onelevel can draw on lower level concepts.
Whilethere need not necessarily be any conceptualprimitives, the lowest level domains are termedbasic domains and include our experience oftime, space, color etc.4.
A semantic structure derives its value throughthe imposition of a "profile" upon a "base".5.
Semantic structures incorporate conventional"imagery", our ability to construe the same in-formational content in different ways.That meaning reduces to conceptualization(thesis 1), is characterized relative to cognitivedomains (thesis 3), and incorporates conventionalimagery (thesis 5) runs in stark contrast o theheavy emphasis placed on truth conditions andformalization by current computational linguisticapproaches.
We have attempted to tackle the in-formality of this ideational view of meaning, byaddressing one particular basic cognitive domain,that of oriented three-dimensional space, and im-plement a restricted version of Langacker's processof conceptualization by means of conventional im-agery.
To verify the utility of the resulting concep-tualization, we use the interpretations of spatialexpressions so generated (the resulting images), toautomatically construct a depictions of the scene.Theses 2, that prototypes should replace tra-ditional objective categories, lies at the very heartof cognitive semantics \[Taylor1989\], and though itis widely accepted as true for semantic and mostother linguistic ategories, prototype theory is notconducive to rigorous formalization and has con-sequently been ignored by mainstream computa-tional linguistics.
Likewise our concern is withmeaning variations that originate from differentconstruals of the same information in the processof conventional imagery (thesis 5).IMAGERY AND ITSIMPLEMENTATIONThis special technical use of imagery (not to beconfused with the psychological term meaning theformation and manipulation mental images) refersto "our amazing mental ability to "structure" or"construe"' a conceived situation in many alter-nate ways" \[Langacker1988b\], as opposed to tradi-tional semantic approaches whose concern is withinformational content alone.
Thus "every concep-tion reflects some particular construal of its con-tent".
Langacker identifies ix important dimen-sions of imagery; in our semantic analysis of spa-tial expressions we are interested in just three ofthese:1. level of specificity2.
scale and scope of predication3.
perspectiveThe remainder of this section is a characteri-zation of each of these dimensions and the conse-quences that their consideration has with respectto the design of a conceptual representation forspatial expressions.REPRESENTING 3-D SPACEThe basic cognitive domain relative to which thespatial meaning of projective prepositions is char-acterized, is structured three-dimensional space.In our system space is represented using an orthog-onal axis system we refer to as the DCS (DomainCoordinate System).
In the process of image con-struction conceptual objects will be constrainedto locations described relative to the DCS.
TheDCS mirrors the speaker's perceptual assignmentof axes to a scene, the x-axis extends from deicticleft to deictic right, the y-axis from deictic frontto deictic back, and the z-axis extends vertically.LEVEL  OF  SPECIF IC ITYThe level of specificity of conventional imagery ad-dresses the issue of the degree of detail with whichan entity is characterized.
Specificity has alreadybeen mentioned in connection with the construc-tion of the network of polysemous senses of a lex-ical item; on the other hand, concerning differentlexical items, we can readily identify different spa-tial predications that are schematic with respectto each other.
Consider the sentences below.
(a) The chair is near the desk.
(b) The chair is in front of the desk.
(c) The chair is facing the desk.Sentence (a) simply predicates proximity; (b)predicates both proximity and a positioning of theLO relative to a particular side of the RO I ; lastly(c) predicates proximity and a relative positioningof the LO with respect to the RO, with the addi-tional anti-alignment of the fronl face normals ofthe two objects.Schematic contrast dictates the min imum de-gree of detail we must maintain in our com-putational representation of the conceptual ref-erence and located objects.
In sentences (a)the objects can be thought of as structurelesspoints; in (b) the representation of the ROmust incorporate the notion of sideness; and in(c) both the RO and LO are sided.
We bor-row Lang's conceptual representation of objectsZThe issue of which side of the reference objectthe located object is positioned with respect to is ad-dressed as a consequence of the perspective dimensionof conventional imagery305termed object schemata \[Lang1993\], constructedwithin Bierwisch's and Lang's the two-level se-mantics \[Bierwisch and Lang1989\].
The objectschema for a desk is:a max b vert c acrossal i-left bl i-bottom el i-fronta2 i-right b2 i-top c2 i-backIn this first schema a, b and ?
label three or-thogonal axes centered at the object, each of whichcan be instantiated by one or more dimensional as-signment parameters (DAPs)2; a l -a2,  bl-b2 andc1-?2 are corresponding half-axes.
Each half axisis labelled either n i l  or with an intrinsic side(eg.
i - fronl;) .
This representation is augmentedwith both a three-dimensional Cartesian coordi-nate which when assigned locates the conceptualschema relative to the DCS; and the values of thedefault extents for the object type along the axesa, b and ?.Imagery implies an imager, that is, the im-age exists in and with respect cognitive world ofthe speaker (by default) and this necessarily hasimportant consequences.
With respect to spatiallanguage, issues pertaining to perspective, that istaking account of the imager, include the speaker'svantage point and orientation.ORIENTAT IONThe interpretation of some spatial expressions idependent on assumptions as to the speaker'sorientation with respect to the objects in thescene (eg.
whether A is "to the left of" B ina scene, is dependent on the orientation of thespeaker/viewer); other expressions are orientationindependent such as "above" and "below" whichimplicitly refer to the downward pull of gravity (al-though in space verticality is speaker dependent).When an object schemata is characterized rel-ative to the DCS it is both assigned a Cartesianposition (as we show later), and its half-axes areassigned deictic sides according to their relativeorientation with the observer.
For example if adesk is positioned "against he left wall" as in fig-ure 1 this would result an instantiated conceptualschema for the "desk" of:a max b vert c acrossal i-left bl i-bottom cl i-frontd-front d-bottom d-righta2 i-right b2 i-top c2 i-backd-back d-t op d-lef t2DAPs are not of direct interest here although theyare fundamental tothe process of dimensional designa-tion and and important where dimensional ~signmentmight result in a reorientation ofthe conceptual object(eg.
"the pole is high").Here al is the intrinsic left side but the deicticfront of the desk.VANTAGE POINTThe speaker's vantage point is another factor thatdetermines the interpretation of spatial expres-sions in a scene.
The notions of deictic and in-trinsic interpretations of projective prepositionscan be accounted for purely by recognizing that ineach the speaker adopts a different vantage point.For deictic interpretations the vantage point is thespeaker's actual position.
The vantage point forintrinsic interpretations i  the functionally rele-vant position with respect o a reference object,for example, "left of the desk" under the intrinsicinterpretation uses a vantage point that is directlyin front of the desk (the typical configuration whena human uses a desk).The meaning of a projective preposition isconceptually represented as a spatial constraint onthe conceptual schema of the located object whichextends out from a particular side of a referenceobject, the precise nature of which we describe inthe next subsection.
In our system the lexicalizedconstraint is of the form of a two place predicate:< zoneprox  X:s ids  Y >Where X is the reference object and Y the lo-cated object.
The parameter s ide depends on thepreposition.
Thus the schematicity we observed insection is explicitly represented:(a) V is near X.< zonsprox  X Y >Proximity constraint between X and Y.
(b) Y is in front of X.< zoneprox  X: f ront  Y >Proximity and alignment of Y with front of X(c) Y is facing X.< zoneprox  X: f ron~ Y :back  >Proximity, alignment and specific "facing" oriemSCOPE OF  PREDICAT IONScope refers to exactly how much of a cognitivedomain is included in the characterization.
Mini-mally, the scope of an image for "next to" must en-compass at least the reference and subject objectsand some region of space separating them.
We im-plement he spirit of this concept by realising thelexicalized constraint for a projective prepositionas a potential field fixed at the reference object'sposition in the DCS 3, The proximity and direc-tional nature of the constraint < zoneprox .
.
> iscaptured using a potential field P~, where:d,  = (x - x0) (1)3This technique is borrowed from robot manipula-tor path-planning \[Khatib1986\]306d~ = (y - y0) (2)P~ = Pp .... ?
+ ed,.,~ (3)P"?~,~= 2 ~ p.ox,~) (4)Kay., ~ d~ (5) Pdir,~ : 2Here the x-axis points direction of the half-axis of the particular side of the reference axis inthe DCS; and in the case of "in front of" y is theperpendicular direction in the horizontal plane;(x0,y0) is the Cartesian coordinate of the refer-ence object in the DCS, and lower the value ofPt~ for a location (x, y) for the located object thebetter the spatial constraint is satisfied.
The min-imum for the field can be quickly computed usinggradual approximation \[3ramada et al1988\].
Thevalues of Kproz ~.
Lproz ' ~r ' and Kdir,.~.
are depen-dent on the located and reference objects and areset on the basis of scale considerations ( ee).
Mul-tiple spatial predications over an object is simplyaccommodated within the potential field model bylinear addition of component fields.SCALE OF PREDICAT IONThe concept of the scale relates to the object de-pendency of the degree of proximity and direc-tional constraint afforded by a preosition: where"X is left of Y", and X and Y are houses, then themeaning of this predication would contrast with itsmeaning if X and Y were pieces of fruit.
The con-cept of proximity and directional constraint pred-icated by "left of" is apparent in both cases, whatdiffers is the scale relative to which it is character-ized.Scale effects are realised in the mechanism bywhich the constants of the potential field are set.For the potential field P~, the effect of the con-stants on the nature of the constraint are::.
K..o.,,~Proportional to range of the possible separa-tions of X and Y that would still satisfy thepredication.2.
Lpro~,~ ,The default separation of X and Y.Proportional to the range of directions thatwould still satisfy the predication.Thus for a reference object that is a houseKp,.o~:,~, Lp,.o~,~, Kai, .~ r must all be consider-ably greater than for a piece of fruit.
The precisevalues can only reasonably set as a result of someexperimental investigation, currently Kp~o~, t~' andLpro~ ,~ are linearly dependent on the sum of theextents of the reference and subject objects in thedirection of spatial alignment; and Kdi~,~.
on theperpendicular extent of the reference object in theplane of the constraint.GENERATING DEPICTIONSAfter using gradual approximation to find the po-sition of the minimum in the potential fields rep-resenting the spatial predications over a particularobject, this point can be regarded as a probableinterpretation.
By tying each conceptual objectto a graphical model, and interpreting the DCSas the viewer's perceptual axis system, concep-tual interpretations can be rendered as scene de-pictions.
Figure 2 illustrates one depiction of thecumulative interpretation of the following verbaldescription, in which all projective prepositionsare viewed intrinsically 4.
"I am in a room.
Against the left wall is along desk.
Against the back wall is a short desk.In front of the long desk is a chair.
Another chairis to the left of the long desk.
The chair in frontof the desk is near the short desk.
"OTHER APPROACHES ANDCLOSING REMARKSNearly all the work in recent years on computingthe meanings of spatial prepositions stem from theprototypesemantics of either Herskovits \[Herskovits1985\],\[Herskovits1986\] or Talmy \[Talmy1983\].
Schirra\[Schirra nd Stopp1993\] adopts Herskovits' notionof a core meaning, and implements this as a typ-icality field.
The ability to sum fields of differentpredications satisfies the compositionality require-ment.
Yet representational poverty exists with re-spect to the spatial and perceptual characteristicsof the objects, as while directionality and prox-imity constraints are adequately captured for theintrinsic reference frame and set of objects, varia-tion in the degree of constraint (for example, de-pending on the size of the reference object) andthe potential for ambiguity arising from interpre-tations with respect o different reference framesare not accounted for.Underlying Kalita'swork \[Kalita nd Badler1991\] is a conceptualiza-tion of the space around a reference object as six4Natural anguage sentences are parsed to threebranch quantifiers using a prolog DCG grammar, thelogical predicates are the input to the cognitive seman-tic processor, the resulting conceptual representationsare converted to depictions in by the depiction module.
The cognitive semantic processor and the depictionmodule are implemented in Smalltalk/Objectworks307Gn~/aa DmoInDut \[Figure 2: Computer generated depiction'of a ver-bal descriptionorthogonal rectangula~ projected regions (basedupon an enclosing cuboid idealization of the ob-ject) due to Douglas \[Douglas and Novick1987\].Using this model and following Talmy's work, thesemantics ofprojective prepositions are lexicalizedas geometric-relation schemas.
Reference frameanabiguity is not addressed; directionality is tootightly restricted to one of the six rectangular re-gions, and proximity constraint is left to the "un-derlying constraint satisfaction techniques and theuse of a weight slot in the template for constraintrepresentation".Within the framework of the LILOG project\[Maienborn1991\] Ewald Lang implemented thetwo-level approach to the semantics of di-mensional adjectives in which the percep-tual and dimensional properties of objects areconceptually represented as object schemata\[Bierwisch and Lang1989\].
Further developedfor projective spatial predications, Lang's objectschemata are capable of distinguishing deictic andintrinsic readings, though without explicit refer-ence to a quantitative space (ie.
actual scenes andobservers) as in the case of Schirra and Kalita.Our system represents ~ first attempt, andvery highly specialized implementation, f the con-ventional imagery process that is a component ofthe cognitive grammarian's view of linguistic se-mantics.
Its performance, in terms of generatingall possible interpretations, and the quality of theinterpretations constitutes a significant advanceon previous approaches.References '\[Bierwisch and Lang1989\]M Bierwisch and E Lang.
1989.
DimensionalAdjectives: Grammatical Structure and Concep-tual Interpretation.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin Hei-delberg New York.\[Douglas and Novick1987\]S Douglas and D Novick.
1987.
Consistencyand variance in spatial reference.
In Proceedingsof the Ninth Annual Cognitive Science SocietyMeeting, pages 417-426.\[Herskovits1985\] A Herskovits.
1985.
Semanticsand pragmatics of locative xpressions.
Cogni-tive Science, 9:341-378.\[Herskovits1986\] A Herskovits.
1986.
Languageand spatial cognition -- an interdisciplinarystudy of the prepositions in English.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge (UK).\[Kalita nd Badler1991\] J Kalita and B Badler.1991.
Interpreting prepositions physically.
InProceedings AAAI-91, pages 105-110.\[Khatib1986\] O Khatib.
1986.
Real-time obstacleavoidance for manipulators and modile robots.The International Journal of Robotics Research,5(1):90-98.\[Lang1993\] E Lang.
1993.
A two-level approach toprojective prepositions.
In C Zelinsky-Wibbelt,editor, The semantics of prepositions: frommental processing to Natural Language process-ing.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin.\[Langacker1987\] R W Langacker.
1987.
Founda-tions of Cognitive Grammar, Volume I, Theo-retical Prerequisites.
Stanford University Press,Stanford.\[Langacker1988a\] R W Langacker.
1988a.
Anoverview of cognitive grammar.
In B Rudzka-Ostyn, editor, Topics in Cognitive Linguis-tics, pages 3-48.
Benjamins, Amsterdam-Philadelphia.\[Langacker1988b\] R W Langacker.
1988b.
A viewof linguistic semantics.
In B Rudzkw-Ostyn, ed-itor, Topics in Cognitive Linguistics, pages 49-90.
Benjamins, Amsterdam-Philadelphia.\[Maienborn1991\] J R Maienborn.
1991.
Process-ing spatial knowledge in lilog.
IWBS Report157, IBM Germany.\[Retz-Schmidt1988\] G Retz-Schmidt.
1988.
Vari-ous views on spatial prepositions.
AI Magazine,9(2):95-105.\[Rudzka-Ostyn1988\] B Rudzka-Ostyn,editor.
1988.
Topics in Cognitive Linguistics.Benjamins, Amsterdam-Philadelphia.308\[Schirra and Stopp1993\] ,\] R 3 Schirra andE Stopp.
1993.
Antlima -- a listener modelwith mental images.
In Proceedings of IJCAI,pages 175-180.\[TaJmy1983\] L Talmy.
1983.
How language struc-tures space.
In H Pick and L Acredolo, editors,Spatial Orientation: Theory, Research, and Ap-plication, pages 225-282.
Plenum Press, NewYork.\[Taylor1989\] J R Taylor.
1989.
Linguistic catego-rization: prototypes in linguistic theory.
OxfordUniversity Press, Oxford.\[Yamadaet a1.1988\] A Yamada, T Nishida, andS Doshita.
1988.
Figuring out most plausibleinterpretation from spatial descriptions.
In Pro-ceedings of the 1Pth International Conference onComputational Linguistics, pages 764-769.309
