AN EMPIR ICAL  MODEL OF ACKNOWLEDGMENTFOR SPOKEN-LANGUAGE SYSTEMSDavid  6:.
Novick and Stephen SuttonInteractive Systems GroupDepartment of Computer Science and EngineeringOregon Graduate Institute20000 N.W.
Walker Rd.P.O.
Box 91000Portland, OR 97291-1000nov ick~cse ,  ogi.
eduAbstractWe refine and extend prior views of the descrip-tion, purposes, and contexts-of-use of acknowledg-ment acts through empirical examination of theuse of acknowledgments in task-based conversa-tion.
We distinguish three broad classes of ac-knowledgments (other--*ackn, self--*other--*ackn,and self+ackn) and present a catalogue of 13 pat-terns within these classes that account for the spe-cific uses of acknowledgment i  the corpus.1 MOTIVAT IONThis study is motivated by the need for better di-alogue models in spoken-language systems (SLSs).Dialogue models contribute directly to the interac-tion by providing inter-utterance oherence.
Flu-ent understanding and use of acknowledgmentsshould improve spoken-language systems in atleast the following ways:?
Preventing miscommunicat ion.
Acknowledg-ments are an important device for establishingmutual knowledge and signaling comprehension.Early detection and correction of cases of mis-communication and misunderstanding shouldprevent failure that would otherwise have beeneven more catastrophic.?
Improved naturalness.
Acknowledgments are aprominent feature of human-human dialogue.Supporting the use of acknowledgments forboththe system and the user will emphasize the "nat-uralness" of interfaces and improve their utility.?
Dialogue control.
Humans cope with dialoguecontrol (e.g., turn-taking) with seemingly littleor no effort.
Acknowledgments form an intricaterelationship with dialogue control mechanisms.Understanding these control mechanisms i  cen-tral to the development and success of spokenlanguage systems in order to "track" dialoguesand determine appropriate system actions.?
Improved recognition.
To the extent that a di-alogue model can narrow the range of possiblecontexts for interpretation of a user's utterance,a spoken-language system's peech recognitionperformance will be improved (Young et al,1989).We seek to refine and extend prior views ofthe description, purposes, and contexts-of-use ofacknowledgment acts through empirical examina-tion of the use of acknowledgments in task-basedconversation.
In particular, we seek to describesystematically (1) the communicative value of anacknowledgment and (2) the circumstances of itsuse.
The scope of our inquiry involves spokeninteraction.
We present a catalogue of types ofacknowledgment.
This catalogue is based on aprocess model of acknowledgment that explainsinstances of these acts in a corpus of task-basedconversations.2 RELATED WORKClark and Schaefer (1989) suggested that acknowl-edgments are an important component of a largerframework through which communicating partiesprovide evidence of understanding.
Conversantshave a range of means, which vary with respectto strength, for indicating acceptance of a presen-tation.
These include continued attention, initi-ation of the next relevant contribution, acknowl-edgment, demonstration, and display.Thus acknowledgments are common linguisticdevices used to provide feedback.
Broadly speak-ing, acknowledgments are responsive acts.
1 Thatis, they are usually uttered in (possibly partial)response to a production by another speaker; ac-knowledgment acts express beliefs and intentionsof one conversant with respect o the mutuality ofprior exchanges involving some other conversant.The intended perlocutionary effect of an acknowl-edgment act is generally the perception of mutu-ality of some belief.1A notable exception is the self-acknowledgmentwhich will be discussed shortly96In previous research, the function of acknowl-edgments has been most readily characterized interms of attention, understanding and acceptanceon the recipient's behalf (Kendon, 1967; Schegloff,1982).
In addition, it has been suggested thatthey serve to facilitate active participation in dia-logues and promote "smooth" conversations (Dun-can and Fiske, 1987).Schegloff (1982) described two main typesof acknowledgment: continuers and assessments.Continuers, such as "uh huh," "quite," and "Isee," act as bridges between units.
Conversantsuse acknowledgments as continuers to signal con-tinued attention and to display the recipient's un-derstanding that the speaker is in an extendedturn that is not yet complete.
Moreover, con-tinuers indicate the turning down of an oppor-tunity to undertake a repair subdialogue regard-ing the previous utterance or to initiate a newturn.
Assessments--such as "oh wow" and "gosh,real ly?"
--  are essentially an elaboration on con-tinuers.
That is, they occur in much the sameenvironment and have similar properties to con-tinuers, but in addition express a brief assessmentof the previous utterance.Empirical analysis of conversations has in-dicated that the occurrence of acknowledgmentsis not arbitrary.
Acknowledgments mostly occurat or near major grammatical boundaries, whichserve as transition-relevance places for turn-taking(Sacks et al, 1974; Hopper, 1992).
In particu-lar, work by Orestrom (1983) and Goodwin (1986)suggested a tendency for continuers to overlapwith the primary speaker's contribution, in such away that they serve as bridges between two turn-constructional units.
Assessments, on the otherhand, are generally engineered without overlap.Goodwin suggested that conversants make specialefforts to prevent assessments from intruding intosubsequent units.
That is, the speaker typicallydelays production of the subsequent unit until therecipient 's assessment has been brought to com-pletion.Clearly, acknowledgments are an importantdevice for providing evidence of understanding andfor avoiding miscommunication between parties.Just as next-relevant-contributions include the en-tire range of potential task or domain actions, thetask-based role of acknowledgments can be differ-entiated within their class as acceptances.
Beyondcontinuers and assessments, we will demonstratethat acknowledgments incorporate a larger set ofconversational actions, many of which relate to co-herence of multi-utterance ontributions.3 D IALOGUE ANALYS ISIn this section, we describe the task characteris-tics and the corpus used for this study, presenta theoretical model of acknowledgment acts intask-based ialogue, and present an analysis of ac-knowledgment acts based on corpus material.3.1 THE VEHICLE  NAVIGAT IONSYSTEM CORPUSThe corpus we analyzed was collected by U SWEST Advanced Technologies in the domain ofa vehicle navigation system (VNS).
A VNS is in-tended to provide travel directions to motorists bycellular telephone: the system interacts with thecaller to determine the caller's identity, currentlocation and destination, and then gives drivingdirections a step at a time under the caller's con-trol.
U S WEST collected the dialogues througha Wizard-of-Oz experiment (Brunner et M., 1992)in which the wizard was free to engage in linguis-tically unconstrained interaction in the VNS task.Each of the 21 subjects performed three tasks inthe VNS domain.
As a whole, the corpus con-tained 2499 turns and 1107 acknowledgments.3.2 A TASK-BASED MODEL OFACKNOWLEDGMENT ACTSThe generally accepted view of acknowledg-ments, as noted earlier, distinguishes betweentwo classes--namely continuers and assessments(Schegloff, 1982).
Indeed, there were many oc-currences of continuers (and a few assessments) inthe VNS corpus.
However, our analysis suggeststhat acknowledgments perform functions beyondthese two classes.
For instance, we observed sev-eral instances of acknowledgment being used atthe beginning of a turn by the same speaker.
Thiscontrasts with the notions of continuers and as-sessments which, by definition, occur as unitaryproductions in the context of extended turns byanother speaker.
Clearly, an acknowledgment oc-curring at the beginning of a turn is not servingas a prompt for the other speaker to continue.To account for the evidence provided by theVNS corpus, we propose to extend Schegloff's clas-sification scheme into a task-based model of ac-knowledgment acts.
This model formalizes themeaning and usage characteristics of acknowledg-ments, based On an analysis of what acknowledg-ments mean and when acknowledgments are usedin the VNS dialogues.A useful way of looking at the role of acknowl-edgments in the context of turns is to considerthe basic structural context of exchanges.
Webegin by reviewing the concept of an adjacencypair (Schegloff and Sacks, 1973; Clark and Schae-97fer, 1989).
An adjacency pair is formed by twoconsecutive utterances that have a canonical re-lationship, such as question-answer and greeting-greeting.
An acknowledgment can be produced asthe second phase of an adjacency pair or follow-ing a complete adjacency pair; in each case, theutterance may contain multiple acceptances.
Ofcourse, an acknowledgment can be produced alsoas a single turn that does not relate to an adja-cency pair.
Thus, based on exchange structureone can distinguish three broad structural classesof acknowledgments: 2?
Other-*ackn, where the acknowledgment formsthe second phase of an adjacency pair;?
Sclf--*other--*ackn, where Self initiates an ex-change, Other (eventually) completes the ex-change, and Self then utters an acknowledg-ment; and?
Self?ackn, where Self includes an acknowledg-ment in an utterance outside of an adjacencypair.In the other--*ackn class, the exchange is a ba-sic adjacency pair; Other's act will be composed ofa single turn.
In the self--*other-*ackn class, theexchange initiated and eventually acknowledgedby Self may be composed of multiple turns, withmultiple utterances by both Self and Other.
Inthe self?ackn class, the acknowledgment occurs ina single, extended turn by Self that may containmultiple utterances.3.3 A CATALOGUE OFACKNOWLEDGMENT ACTSIN  TASK-BASED DIALOGUEIn this section, we elaborate the structural classesof acknowledgment through a catalogue of pat-terns of speech acts that occur in each class.This catalogue provides broad coverage of patternstypically encountered in task-oriented iscourse.These patterns describe the context of acknowl-edgments in terms of exchanges and are derivedfrom utterances in the VNS corpus.
Each act inan exchange is represented in terms of speech-actverbs based on the set described by Wierzbicka(1987) .
Table 1 summarizes the speech-act pat-terns in the catalogue.
In the following sections,we will consider each of the structural classes inturn and provide examples of selected patternsfrom the VNS corpus.
We also consider embed-2The notation for structural class names indicatesturns delimited by arrows (--*).
Acts combined withina turn are joined with a plus (+) symbol.
Other andself refer to non-acknowledgment ac s by the respec-tive conversants.
"Self" refers to the party producingthe acknowledgment; "Other" is the other party.ded exchanges, in which basic patterns are usedto build more complex patterns.3.3.1 Other - *Aekn  Acknowledgments in theother--*ackn class relate principally to the im-mediately antecedent utterance as opposed tothe prior exchange, which is covered by theself-*other-*ackn class.
In Clark and Schae-fer's (1989) terms, Self's acknowledgment in theother-*ackn class serves as the acceptance phasefor Other's presentation.
As listed in Table 1, thecanonical other--* ackn patterns axe inform--* ackn,inform-*ackn+mrequest, request-*ackn?inform,mdirect-~ackn and preclose-*ackn.
3 In each ofthese cases, the first turn is by Other and the sec-ond turn is Self's acknowledgment.
In some cases,Self's turn also extends to include other signifi-cant utterances.
We illustrate the other-*acknclass through examination of the inform-*acknand inform-*ackn+mrequest patterns.In fo rm-*AeknThe inform-*aekn pattern covers cases whereOther performs an inform act and Self respondswith an acknowledgment of that act.
In the follow-ing example 4 of an inform-* ackn, the wizard givesdirections to the user, who acknowledges these di-rections.
This is an example of an acknowledg-ment that Schegloff (1982) would call a continuer.Example 1 (U6.3.1) 5(1.1) Wizard: On Evans, you need to turnleft and head West for approximately threequarters of a mile to Clermont.
(1.2) User: Okay.
(1.3) Wizard: And, urn, on Clermont youturn left, heading South for about twoblocks to Iliff.Here, the "okay" at turn 1.2 indicates theuser's acceptance of the wizaxd's utterance.
Thatis, the acknowledgment implies that the userunderstood information given by the wizard--more emphatically than a simple next-relevant-contribution response.
Use of the acknowledg-3The mrequest and redirect acts are forms of meta-act in which the speaker initiates a clarification subdi-alogue or otherwise xplicitly addresses the control ofthe conversation; rarequest and redirect are extensionsof Wierzbicka's (1987) speech-act ategories followingNovick's (1988) meta-act analysis.4In the examples, the acknowledgment of principalinterest is highlighted.~All examples are extracted from a corpus of tele-phone dialogues from a task-oriented "Wizard-of-Oz"protocol collection study described in Section 3.1.
Theexamples in this paper are notated with the corpus di-alogue reference number and each turn is numberedfor purposes of reference.98Other--~ Ackn \[ Self--~Other--~ Ackn Self?
Ackninform~ackninform--*ackn-bmrequestrequest--*ackn+informmdirect-*acknpreclose--*ackninform~ackn-*acknrequest--*inform---~acknmrequest--*inform--~acknmdirect--~ackn--*ackninform+ackn+informmrequest+acknmdirect+acknTable 1: A Summary of Speech-Act Patterns for Structural Classes of Acknowledgmentment would be strong evidence of understanding inClark and Schaefer's (1989) terms.
An importantpoint to stress here is that the wizard cannot relyon the user necessarily having received the infor-mation that was actually conveyed or formed theintended interpretation.
Rather, the wizard is leftwith the user's response indicating that the userwas apparently satisfied with the wizard's originalpresentation.Inform--* Ackn+ MRequestThe inform--*ackn+mrequest class repre-sents a significant functional variation on theinform--~ackn class just considered.
It covers caseswhere Other performs an inform act, Self respondswith an acknowledgment of that act and then goeson to seek clarification of the content of the informact.
Requests for clarification are kinds of meta-act because they are concerned with aspects of di-alogue control rather than the task itself.
That is,requests for clarification are concerned with thespecifics of old information rather than seekingto elicit largely new information--unlike r quest-inform acts.Example 2 (U4.3.1)(2.1) Wizard: Okay.
Then you want to gonorth on Speer Boulevard for one and onehalf miles to Alcott Street.
(2.1) User: Okay.
I want to go right onSpeer?
(2.2) Wizard: It will be a left.In this example, the repair is a potential re-quest for specification (Lloyd, 1992).
That is,the user's clarification at 2.2 ("I want to go righton Speer?")
focuses on information which wasmissing from the surface structure of the origi-nal inform act but which is potentially available--namely "right" instead of "north.
"3.3.2 Self--~Other---~Ackn Acknowledgmentsin the self--~other--*ackn class relate to the pre-vious exchange, rather than just the previous ut-terance.
Broadly speaking, they express the cur-rent state of the dialogue in addition to embody-ing the functionality of other--~ackn acknowledg-ments.
That is, they explicitly mark the com-pletion of the antecedent exchange and indicatethat the dialogue will either enter a new exchangeor resume an existing exchange.
Furthermore,self--~other--~ackn acknowledgments signal under-standing and acceptance of both the previous ex-change and the previous utterance.
The canon-ical patterns of the self--* other--* ackn class, aslisted in Table 1, include inform--*ackn---~ackn,request-* inform-~ ackn, mrequest-* inf orm--~ acknand mdirect--~ackn--*ackn.
We illustrate theself--*other--~ackn class through examination ofthe request-~inform--, ackn pattern.Request  --*Inform--~AeknThe request--~inform--*ackn lass covers caseswhere Self requests an inform act of Other.
Otherthen performs that inform act and Self acknowl-edges.
Note that the acknowledgment i  this casefollows a completed request-inform adjacency pair.Earlier, we mentioned that question-answer adja-cency pairs can be regarded as special cases ofrequest-inform adjacency pairs (Searle, 1969).
Inthe following example, the wizard requests theuser's start location.
The user satisfies this re-quest by communicating the desired informationand the wizard then acknowledges.
Here the ac-knowledgment a 3.3 serves to indicate acceptance(that is, receipt, understanding and agreement) ofthe user's inform act and is a signal that the re-quest initiated by the wizard at 3.1 has been sat-isfied and thus the exchange is complete.Example  3 (U2.1.1)(3.1) Wizard: Okay and uh, what's yourstarting location?
(3.2) User: I'm at 36th and Sheridan at thePark-n-Ride.
(3.3) Wizard: Okay, one moment please.3.3.3 Self -bAckn Self-acknowledgments occurwhen Self issues an acknowledgment followingsome action (either verbal or physical) performedby Self.
These are not responsive acts, unlike otheracknowledgment usages considered; however, theyare still closely tied with the idea of establish-ing mutual beliefs.
The canonical patterns, as99listed in Table 1, include inform+ackn+inform,mrequest+ackn, and mdirect+ackn.
We illustratethe self+ackn class through examination of the in-form +ackn +inform pattern.Inform+Ackn+InformIn this pattern, Self uses an acknowledgmentin the middle of an extended turn.
Consider thefollowing example:Example 4 (U5.3.1)(4.1) Wizard: All right, urn, the first thingyou need to do is go South on Logan Streetfor one and a half miles to Evans Avenue.Then turn left on Evans Avenue and goone and a quarter miles to South JosephineStreet.
Okay, then you'll turn left onSouth Josephine Street.
Nineteen FortySouth Josephine is within the first block.This particular self-acknowledgment is verysimilar to a continuer--indeed it may be regardedas a self-continuer.
The wizard's acknowledgmentin this example represents a sort of temporizing, achance for the wizard to "catch his mental breath.
"For the user, this sort of "Okay" thus signals thatthe wizard intends to continue his turn.
This isfunctionally distinct from a meta-request of theform "Okay?"
because there is no rising intona-tion and the wizard does not wait for a response.In fact, use of a self-acknowledgment at he end ofa turn would be peculiar.3.3.4 Embedded Exchanges  We noted earlierthat basic patterns can used to build more com-plex patterns.
This can lead potentially to vari-ations in patterns of acknowledgments.
In par-ticular, it is possible to observe cascades of ac-knowledgments a nested exchanges are "popped"one by one.
Simple acts may be replaced by morecomplex exchanges, o that an inform act may bereplaced by an exchange that accomplishes an in-form via a sequence of informs, clarifications andacknowledgments.
In this section we will considerone of the variations encountered in the VNS cor-pus; where an {nform---*ackn--~ackn replaces theinform act in an inform--*ackn sequence.
In thefollowing example, there are three successive ac-knowledgment acts.
The first acknowledgment at5.2 is accompanied by a verbatim response by theuser.
It is the second phase of the inform--*acknadjacency pair, indicating understanding and ac-ceptance of the wizard's inform act in which a di-rection was clarified.
The second acknowledgment,issued by the wizard at 5.3, marks the completionof the inform--*ackn exchange.
That is, the wiz-ard recognizes that it is his or her turn yet hasnothing more to add, so indicates passing up theturn with an acknowledgment.
The third acknowl-edgment, issued by the user at 5.4, is associatedwith the user recognizing that the wizard has fin-ished clarifying directions; the user thus acknowl-edges this embedded inform act.
The user thenindicates atisfaction and approval of the wizard'sdirections with the assessment "Sounds good.
"Example  5 (U6.2.1)(5.1) Wizard: Okay, it was, urn, on Evansit's three and three quarter miles to Jas-mine.
(5.2) User: Three, okay.
(5.3) Wizard: Okay.
(5.4) User: Al l  r ight,  sounds good.4 CONCLUSIONWhy is a conversation-analytic study of acknowl-edgment useful in the development of spokenlanguage systems?
SLSs developers face thedual challenges of creating both domain-baseddialogues and repair-oriented ialogues.
Lack-ing systematic mechanisms for natural mainte-nance of mutuality, SLSs tend to rely on do-main structures--producing rather stolid interac-tion.
The most advanced systems incorporate re-pair acts, but are unable to relate the repairs to themain dialogue structures in a natural way.
The ac-knowledgment model described in this paper pro-vides a systematic method of maintaining mutu-ality of knowledge for both domain and controlinformation.More concretely, using this model SLSs canaccount for acknowledgments by both user andsystem.
The corpus evidence suggests that users'utterances in unconstrained ialogues containmany instances of acknowledgment.
In interpret-ing these utterances, identification of the appro-priate acknowledgment function affects the stateof the dialogue model and thus plays an importantrole in determining an appropriate response by thesystem.
In producing such responses, the acknowl-edgment model can provide structurally appropri-ate utterances.
The fundamental idea is to pro-duce contextually appropriate acknowledgmentsthat advances the dialogue seamlessly with respectto both domain and control functions.
That is, thesystem needs to give the right signals at the righttime.The evidence of the U S WEST VNS cor-pus suggests that understanding and production ofdomain and control utterances are closely linked;they thus cannot be implemented as independentmechanisms in an SLS.
For example, giving direc-tions involves presenting large amounts of infor-mation for which an installment approach oftenproved effective.
Typically the user was given theopportunity to choose the style of presentation of100directions, either step-by-step or all at once.
Thechoice of presentation method by the conversantswas a dynamic one: in cases where it became ap-parent hat the user was experiencing difficultieswith either hearing or understanding directions,the wizard often resorted to the step-by-step ap-proach.
This form of repair changed the process ofinteraction so that the comprehension f each in-stallment was verified before proceeding with thenext.The conversants in the VNS corpus displayedrelatively higher ates of use of acknowledgment irepair situations or when unplanned events arose(e.g., the user had gotten lost).
Intuitively, peoplemake more effort to establish mutual knowledgewhen it is apparent hat miscommunication hasoccurred than at other times; their certainty cri-terion for mutuality (Clark and Marshall, 1981)is raised as a result of the need for repair.
Thissuggests that a facility for acknowledgment is animportant element in the development of robustSLSs because use of acknowledgment is most crit-ical precisely when the conversation has gone awry.We are currently developing a computationalmodel of acknowledgment based on the empiricalwork presented in this paper.
This model is in-tended for integration into a SLS where it willserve both to predict when acknowledgments areappropriate from the system and when to expectacknowledgments from the user.
Briefly, deter-mining the applicability of an acknowledgment in-volves interpreting exchanges in terms of speechacts and then mapping these speech-act patternsonto the acknowledgment classes described.
This,we believe, will facilitate improved SLS robustnessthrough achievement of a greater degree of mutualunderstanding and provide a more natural and in-tuitive interaction.
The utility and implementa-tion of the empirical model will be the focus of alater paper.5 ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work was supported by U S WEST AdvancedTechnologies and the Oregon Advanced Comput-ing Institute.Re ferencesH.
Brunner, G. Whittemore, K. Ferrara, andJ.
Hsu.
1992.
An assessment of writ-ten/interactive dialogue for information re-trieval applications.
Human Computer Inter-action, 7:197-249.H.H.
Clark and C.R.
Marshall.
1981.
Definitereference and mutual knowledge.
In A.K.Joshi, B.L.
Webber, and I.A.
Sag, editors, El-ements of discourse understanding, pages 10-63.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.H.H.
Clark and E.F. Schaefer.
1989.
Contributingto discourse.
Cognitive Science, 13:259-294.S.
Duncan and D.W. Fiske.
1987.
Face-to-face in-teraction: Research methods and theory.
Wi-ley, New York.C.
Goodwin.
1986.
Between and within: Alterna-tive sequential treatments of continuers andassessments.
Human Studies, 9:205-217.R.
Hopper.
1992.
Telephone conversations.
Uni-versity of Indiana, Bloomington, IN.A.
Kendon.
1967.
Some functions of gaze in socialinteraction.
Acta Psychologica, 26:22-63.P.
Lloyd.
1992.
The role of clarification requests inchildren's communication f route directionsby telephone.
Discourse Processes, 15:357-374.D.G.
Novick.
1988.
Control of mixed-initiativediscourse through meta-locutionary acts: Acomputational model.
Doctoral dissertation,Department of Computer Science and Infor-mation Science, University of Oregon, Decem-ber.B.
Orestrom.
1983.
Turn-taking in english con-versation.
Gleerup, Lund, Sweden.H.
Sacks, E. Schegloff, and G. Jefferson.
1974.A simplest systematics for the organizationof turn-taking in conversation.
Language,50:696-735.E.A.
Schegloff and H. Sacks.
1973.
Opening upclosings.
Semiotica, 8:289-327.E.A.
Schegloff.
1982.
Discourse as an interac-tional achievement: Some uses of 'uh huh' andother things that come between sentences.
InD.
Tannen, editor, Analyzing Discourse: Textand Talk, pages 71-93.
Georgetown UniversityPress, Washington, D.C.J.R.
Searle.
1969.
Speech acts: An essay in thephilosophy of language.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge.A.
Wierzbicka.
1987.
English speech act verbs: Asemantic dictionary.
Academic Press, Sydney,Australia.S.
Young, A. Hauptmann, W. Ward, E. Smith,and P. Werner.
1989.
High level knowledgesources in usable speech recognition systems.Communications of the ACM, 32(2):183-194.101
