CONCEPTUAL ASSOCIATION FOR COMPOUND NOUN ANALYSISMicrosof t  Institute65 Epping RoadNorth  Ryde  NSW 2113(t-markl @ microsoft.corn)Mark LauerAUSTRAL IADepar tment  o f  Comput ingMacquar ie  Univers i tyNSW 2109(mark @ macadam, mpce.
mq.edu .au)AbstractThis paper describes research toward the automaticinterpretation of compound nouns using corpusstatistics.
An initial study aimed at syntacticdisambiguation is presented.
The approach presentedbases associations upon thesaurus categories.Association data is gathered from unambiguous casesextracted from a corpus and is then applied to theanalysis of ambiguous compound nouns.
While thework presented is still in progress, a first attempt osyntactically analyse a test set of 244 examples hows75% correctness.
Future work is aimed at improvingthis accuracy and extending the technique to assignsemantic role information, thus producing a completeinterpretation.INTRODUCTIONCompound Nouns: Compound nouns (CNs) are acommonly occurring construction in languageconsisting of a sequence of nouns, acting as a noun;pottery coffee mug, for example.
For a detailedlinguistic theory of compound noun syntax andsemantics, see Levi (1978).
Compound nouns areanalysed syntactically by means of the rule N --?
N Napplied recursively.
Compounds of more than twonouns are ambiguous in syntactic structure.
Anecessary part of producing an interpretation f a CNis an analysis of the attachments within the compound.Syntactic parsers cannot choose an appropriateanalysis, because attachments are not syntacticallygoverned.
The current work presents a system forautomatically deriving a syntactic analysis of arbitraryCNs in English using corpus tatistics.Task description: The initial task can beformulated as choosing the most probable binarybracketing for a given noun sequence, known to form acompound noun, without knowledge of the context.E.G.
: (pottery (coffee mug)); ((coffee mug) holder)Corpus Statistics: The need for wideranging lexical-semantic knowledge to support NLP,commonly referred to as the ACQUISITION PROBLEM,has generated a great deal of research investigatingautomatic means of acquiring such knowledge.
Muchwork has employed carefully constructed parsingsystems to extract knowledge from machine readabledictionaries (e.g., Vanderwende, 1993).
Otherapproaches have used rather simpler, statisticalanalyses of large corpora, as is done in this work.Hindle and Rooth (1993) used a rough parserto extract lexical preferences for prepositional phrase(PP) attachment.
The system counted occurrences ofunambiguously attached PPs and used these to defineLEXICAL ASSOCIATION between prepositions and thenouns and verbs they modified.
This association datawas then used to choose an appropriate attachment forambiguous cases.
The counting of unambiguous casesin order to make inferences about ambiguous ones isadopted in the current work.
An explicit assumption ismade that lexical preferences are relativelyindependent of the presence of syntactic ambiguity.Subsequently, Hindle and Rooth's work hasbeen extended by Resnik and Hearst (1993).
Resnikand Hearst attempted to include information abouttypical prepositional objects in their association data.They introduced the notion of CONCEPTUALASSOCIATION in which associations are measuredbetween groups of words considered to representconcepts, in contrast to single words.
Such class-basedapproaches are used because they allow eachobservation tobe generalized thus reducing the amountof data required.
In the current work, a freely availableversion of Roget's thesaurus is used to provide thegrouping of words into concepts, which then form thebasis of conceptual association.
The researchpresented here can thus be seen as investigating theapplication of several key ideas in Hindle and Rooth(1993) and in Resnik and Hearst (1993) to the solutionof an analogous problem, that of compound nounanalysis.
However, both these works were aimedsolely at syntactic disambiguation.
The goal ofsemantic interpretation remains to be investigated.METHODExtraction Process: The corpus used to collectinformation about compound nouns consists of some7.8 million words from Grolier's multimedia on-lineencyclopedia.
The University of Pennsylvaniamorphological nalyser provides a database of morethan 315,000 inflected forms and their parts of speech.The Grolier's text was searched for consecutive words337listed in the database as always being nouns andseparated only by white space.
This preventedcomma-separated lists and other non-compound nounsequences from being included.
However, it dideliminate many CNs from consideration because manynouns are occasionally used as verbs and are thusambiguous for part of speech.
This resulted in 35,974noun sequences of which all but 655 were pairs.
Thefirst 1000 of the sequences were examined manually tocheck that they were not incidentally adjacent nouns(as in direct and indirect objects, say).
Only 2% did notform CNs, thus establishing a reasonable utility for theextraction method.
The pairs were then used as atraining set, on the assumption that a two word nouncompound is unambiguously bracketed)Thesaurus Categories: The 1911 version ofRoget's Thesaurus contains 1043 categories, with anaverage of 34 single word nouns in each.
Thesecategories were used to define concepts in the sense ofResnik and Hearst (1993).
Each noun in the trainingset was taagged with a list of the categories in which itappeared."
All sequences containing nouns not listedin Roget's were discarded from the training set.Gathering Associations: The remaining24,285 pairs of category lists were then processed tofind a conceptual association (CA) between everyordered pair of thesaurus categories (ti, t2) using theformula below.
CA(t1, t2) is the mutual informationbetween the categories, weighted for ambiguity.
Itmeasures the degree to which the modifying categorypredicts the modified category and vice versa.
Whencategories predict one another, we expect hem to beattached in the syntactic analysis.Let AMBIG(w) = the number of thesauruscategories w appears in (the ambiguity of w).Let COUNT(wb w2) = the number of instances ofWl modifying w2 in the training setLet FREQ(t~, t2) =COUNT(w~, w~),t "~ a ~ "~m ,2 AMBIG(w,)" AMBIG(w2)Let CA (tb t2) =FREQ(tl, t 2)FREQ(t,,i)- ~FREQ(i, t2)Vi Viwhere i ranges over all possible thesaurus categories.Note that this measure is asymmetric.
CA(tbt2)measures the tendency for tl to modify t2 in acompound noun, which is distinct from CA(t2, tO.Automatic Compound Noun Analysis: Thefollowing procedure can be used to syntacticallyI This introduces some additional noise, since extraction cannot guarantee toproduce complete noun compounds2 Some simple morphological rules were used at this point toreduce plural nouns to singular formsanalyse ambiguous CNs.
Suppose the compoundconsists of three nouns: wl w2w3.
A left-branchinganalysis, \[\[wl w2\] w3\] indicates that wl modifies w2,while a right-branching analysis, \[wl \[w2 w3\]\] indicatesthat wl modifies omething denoted primarily by w3.
Amodifier should be associated with words it modifies.So, when CA(pottery, mug) >> CA(pottery, coffee), weprefer (pottery (coffee mug)).
First though, we mustchoose concepts for the words.
For each wi (i = 2 or3), choose categories Si (with wl in Si) and Ti (with wiin Ti) so that CA(Si, Ti) is greatest.
These categoriesrepresent the most significant possible word meaningsfor each possible attachment.
Then choose wi so thatCA(Si, Ti) is maximum and bracket wl as a sibling ofwi.
We have then chosen the attachment having themost significant association in terms of mutualinformation between thesaurus categories.In compounds longer than three nouns, thisprocedure can be generalised by selecting, from allpossible bracketings, that for which the product ofgreatest conceptual ssociations i  maximized.RESULTSTest Set and Evaluation: Of the noun sequencesextracted from Grolier's, 655 were more than twonouns in length and were thus ambiguous.
Of these,308 consisted only of nouns in Roget's and theseformed the test set.
All of them were triples.
Usingthe full context of each sequence in the test set, theauthor analysed each of these, assigning one of fourpossible outcomes.
Some sequences were not CNs (asobserved above for the extraction process) and werelabeled Error.
Other sequences exhibited what Hindleand Rooth (1993) call SEMANTIC INDETERMINACY,where the meanings associated with two attachmentscannot be distinguished in the context.
For example,college economics texts.
These were labeledIndeterminate.
The remainder were labeled Left orRight depending on whether the actual analysis is left-or right-branching.TABLE 1 - Test set analysis distribution:Labels L R I E TotalCount 163 81 35 29 308Percentage 53% 26% 11% 9% 100%Proportion of different labels in the test set.Table 1 shows the distribution of labels in the test set.Hereafter only those triples that received a bracketing(Left or Right) will be considered.The attachment procedure was then used toautomatically assign an analysis to each sequence in338the test set.
The resulting correctness i shown inTable 2.
The overall correctness i  75% on 244examples.
The results show more success with leftbranching attachments, o it may be possible to getbetter overall accuracy by introducing a bias.TABLE 2 - Results of test:x Output Left Output RightActual Left 131 32Actual Right 30 51The proportions of correct and incorrect analyses.DISCUSSIONRelated Work:  There are two notable systems thatare related to the current work.
The SENS systemdescribed in Vanderwende (1993) extracted semanticfeatures from machine readable dictionaries by meansof structural patterns applied to definitions.
Thesefeatures were then matched by heuristics whichassigned likelihood estimates to each possible semanticrelationship.
The work only addressed theinterpretation f pairs of nouns and did not mention theproblem of syntactic ambiguity.A very simple technique aimed at bracketingambiguous compound nouns is reported inPustejovsky et al (1993).
While attempting to extracttaxonomic relationships, their system heuristicallybracketed CNs by searching elsewhere in the corpusfor subcomponents of the compound.
Such matchingfails to take account of the natural frequency of thewords and is likely to require a much larger corpus foraccurate results.
Unfortunately, they provide noevaluation of the performance afforded by theirapproach.Future Plans: A more sophisticated nounsequence extraction method should improve theresults, providing more and cleaner training data.Also, many sequences had to be discarded becausethey contained nouns not in the 1911 Roget's.
A morecomprehensive and consistent thesaurus needs to beused.An investigation of different associationschemes is also planned.
There are various statisticalmeasures other than mutual information, which havebeen shown to be more effective in some studies.Association measures can also be devised that allowevidence from several categories to be combined.Compound noun analyses often depend oncontextual factors.
Any analysis based solely on thestatic semantics of the nouns in the compound cannotaccount for these effects.
To establish an achievableperformance target for context free analysis, anexperiment is planned using human subjects, who willbe given ambiguous noun compounds and asked tochoose attachments for them.Finally, syntactic bracketing is only the firststep in interpreting compound nouns.
Once anattachment is established, a semantic role needs to beselected as is done in SENS.
Given the promisingresults achieved for syntactic preferences, it seemslikely that semantic preferences can also be extractedfrom corpora.
This is the main area of ongoingresearch within the project.CONCLUSIONThe current work uses thesaurus category associationsgathered from an on-line encyclopedia to makeanalyses of compound nouns.
An initial study of thesyntactic disambiguation of 244 compound nouns hasshown promising results, with an accuracy of 75%.Several enhancements are planned along with anexperiment on human subjects to establish aperformance target for systems based on staticsemantic analyses.
The extension to semanticinterpretation of compounds is the next step andrepresents promising unexplored territory for corpusstatistics.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThanks are due to Robert Dale, Vance Gledhill, KarenJensen, Mike Johnson and the anonymous reviewersfor valuable advice, This work has been supported byan Australian Postgraduate Award and the MicrosoftInstitute, Sydney.REFERENCESt-nnd~ Don and Mats Rooth (1993) " S ~  Ambiguity andLexical Relations" Computat/ona/ L ngu/st/cs Vol.
19(1),Special Issue on Using ~ Corpora I,pp 103-20Levi, Judith (1978) "Ihe Syntax and Semantics of ComplexNominals" Academic Press, New Y~k.Pustejovsky, James, Sabine B~eI" and ~ Anick (1993)"l.exical Semantic Techniques for Corpus Analysis"Computat/ona/L/ng~ Vol.
19(2), Special Issue on UsingLarge Coqx~ N, pp 331-58Resnik, Philip and Mani Hearst (1993) "Structural Ambiguityand Conceptual Relations" Proceedings of the Workshop onVery large Corpora: Academic and lndustdal Perspectives,June 22, OlflO Stale UfflVel~ty, pp 58-64V ~  Lm'y (1993) "SEN& The System for EvaluafiqgNoun Sequences" in Jensen, Karen, George Heidom andStephen Richardson (eds) "Natural Language Processing: "l'hePI3qLP Aplxoach", Khwer Academic, pp 161-73339
