Invest igat ing Cue Select ion and P lacement  in Tutorial  DiscourseMegan MoserLearn ing  Research  g: Dev .
Center ,and  Depar tment  o f  L ingu is t i csUn ivers i ty  o f  P i t t sburghP i t t sburgh ,  PA  15260moser@isp, itt.
eduJohanna D. MooreDepar tment  o f  Computer  Sc ience ,  andLearn ing  Research  & Dev .
CenterUn ivers i ty  o f  P i t t sburghP i t t sburgh ,  PA  15260jmoore @ cs.
pitt.
eduAbstractOur goal is to identify the features that pre-dict cue selection and placement in orderto devise strategies for automatic text gen-eration.
Much previous work in this areahas relied on ad hoc methods.
Our codingscheme for the exhaustive analysis of dis-course allows a systematic evaluation andrefinement of hypotheses concerning cues.We report two results based on this anal-ysis: a comparison of the distribution ofSn~CE and BECAUSE in our corpus, and theimpact of embeddedness on cue selection.Discourse cues play a crucial role in many dis-course processing tasks, including plan recogni-tion (Litman and Allen, 1987), anaphora resolu-tion (Gross and Sidner, 1986), and generation ofcoherent multisentential texts (Elhadad and McK-eown, 1990; Roesner and Stede, 1992; Scott andde Souza, 1990; Zukerman, 1990).
Cues are wordsor phrases uch as BECAUSE, FIRST, ALTHOUGH andALSO that mark structural and semantic relation-ships between discourse ntities.
While some specificissues concerning cue usage have been resolved (e.g.,the disambiguation f discourse and sentential cues(Hirschberg and Litman, 1993)), our concern is toidentify general strategies of cue selection and place-ment that can be implemented for automatic textgeneration.
Relevant research in reading comprehen-sion presents a mixed picture (Goldman and Mur-ray, 1992; Lorch, 1989), suggesting that felicitoususe of cues improves comprehension a d recall, butthat indiscriminate use of cues may have detrimentaleffects on recall (Millis et al, 1993) and that thebenefit of cues may depend on the subjects' readingskill and level of domain knowledge (McNamara etal., In press).
However, interpreting the research isproblematic because the manipulation of cues bothwithin and across studies has been very unsystem-atic (Lorch, 1989).
While Knott and Dale (1994)use systematic manipulation to identify functionalcategories of cues, their method does not providethe description of those functions needed for textgeneration.For the study described here, we developed a cod-ing scheme that supports an exhaustive analysis ofa discourse.
Our coding scheme, which we call Re-lational Discouse Analysis (RDA), synthesizes twoaccounts of discourse structure (Gross and Sidner,1986; Mann and Thompson, 1988) that have oftenbeen viewed as incompatible.
We have applied RDAto our corpus of tutorial explanations, producing anexhaustive analysis of each explanation.
By doingsuch an extensive analysis and representing the re-sults in a database, we are able to identify patternsof cue selection and placement in terms of multiplefactors including segment structure and semantic re-lations.
For each cue, we determine the best descrip-tion of its distribution i  the corpus.
Further, we areable to formulate and verify more general patternsabout he distribution of types of cues in the corpus.The corpus study is part of a methodology foridentifying the factors that influence effective cueselection and placement.
Our analysis cheme is co-ordinated with a system for automatic generation oftexts.
Due to this coordination, the results of ouranalyses of "good texts" can be used as rules thatare implemented in the generation system.
In turn,texts produced by the generation system provide ameans for evaluation and further refinement of ourrules for cue selection and placement.
Our ultimategoal is to provide a text generation component thatcan be used in a variety of application systems.
Inaddition, the text generator will provide a tool forthe systematic construction of materials for readingcomprehension experiments.The study is part of a project to improve theexplanation component of a computer system thattrains avionics technicians to troubleshoot complexelectronic ircuitry.
The tutoring system gives thestudent a troubleshooting problem to solve, allowsthe student o solve the problem with minima\] tutorinteraction, and then engages the student in a post-problem critiquing session.
During this session, thesystem replays the student's olution step by step,pointing out good aspects of the solution as wellas ways in which the solution could be improved.130To determine how to build an automated explana-tion component, we collected protocols of 3 humanexpert tutors providing explanations during the cri-tiquing session.
Because the explanation componentwe are building interacts with users via text andmenus, the student and human tutor were requiredto communicate in written form.
In addition, in or-der to study effective explanation, we chose expertswho were rated as excellent tutors by their peers,students, and superiors.1 Re la t iona l  D iscourse  Ana lys i sBecause the recognition of discourse coherence andstructure is complex and dependent on many typesof non-linguistic knowledge, determining the way inwhich cues and other linguistic markers aid thatrecognition is a difficult problem.
The study of cuesmust begin with descriptive work using intuition andobservation to identify the factors affecting cue us-age.
Previous research (Hobbs, 1985; Grosz andSidner, 1986; Schiffrin, 1987; Mann and Thomp-son, 1988; Elhadad and McKeown, 1990) suggeststhat these factors include structural features of thediscourse, intentional and informational relations inthat structure, givenness of information in the dis-course, and syntactic form of discourse constituents.In order to devise an algorithm for cue selection andplacement, we must determine how cue usage is af-fected by combinations of these factors.
The corpusstudy is intended to enable us to gather this infor-mation, and is therefore conducted directly in termsof the factors thought responsible for cue selectionand placement.
Because it is important to detectthe contrast between occurrence and nonoccurrenceof cues, the corpus study must be be exhaustive,i.e., it must include all of the factors thought tocontribute to cue usage and all of the text must beanalyzed.
From this study, we are deriving a systemof hypotheses about cues.In this section we describe our approach to theanalysis of a single speaker's discourse, which we callRelational Discourse Analysis (RDA).
Apply-ing RDA to a tutor's explanation is exhaustive, i.e.,every word in the explanation belongs to exactly oneelement in the analysis.
All elements of the analysis,from the largest constituents of an explanation tothe minimal units, are determined by their functionin the discourse.
A tutor may offer an explanationin multiple segments, the topmost constituents ofthe explanation.
Multiple segments arise when atutor's explanation has several steps, e.g., he mayenumerate several reasons why the student's actionwas inemcient, or he may point out the flaws in thestudent's step and then describe a better alterna-tive.
Each segment originates with an intention ofthe speaker; segments are identified by looking forsets of clauses that taken together serve a purpose.Segments are internally structured and consist of acore, i.e., that element hat most directly expressesthe segment purpose, and any number of cont r lb -u tors ,  the remaining constituents in the segmenteach of which plays a role in serving the purposeexpressed by the core.
For each contributor in asegment, we analyze its relation to the core froman intentional perspective, i.e., how it is intended tosupport he core, and from an informational perspec-tive, i.e., how its content relates to that of the core.Each segmei,t constituent, both core and contribu-tors, may itself be a segment with a core:contributorstructure, or may be a simpler functional element.There are three types of simpler functional elements:(1) units, which are descriptions of domain statesand actions, (2) matrix elements, which express amental attitude, a prescription or an evaluation byembedding another element, and (3) relation clus-ters, which are otherwise like segments except thatthey have no core:coatributor structure.This approach synthesizes ideas which were pre-viously thought incompatible from two theories ofdiscourse structure, the theory proposed by Groszand Sidner (1986) and Rhetorical Structure Theory(RST) proposed by Mann and Thompson (1988).The idea that the hierarchical segment structure ofdiscourse originates with intentions of the speaker,and thus the defining feature of a segment is thatthere be a recognizable segment purpose, is dueto Grosz and Sidner.
The idea that discourse ishierarchically structured by palrwise relations inwhich one relatum (the nucleus) is more central tothe speaker's purpose is due to Mann and Thomp-son.
Work by Moore and Pollack (1992) modi-fied the RST assumption that these palrwise re-lations are unique, demonstrating that intentionaland informational relations occur simultaneously.Moser and Moore (1993) point out the correspon-dence between the relation of dominance amongintentions in Grosz and Sidner and the nucleus-satellite distinction in RST.
Because our analysisrealizes this relation/distinction in a form differentfrom both intention dominance and nuclearity, wehave chosen the new terms core and contributor.To illustrate the application of RDA,  consider thepartial tutor explanation in Figure i t. The purposeof this segment is to inform the student that shemade the strategy error of testing inside paxt3 toosoon.
The constituent that expresses the purpose, inthis case (B), is the core" of the segment.
The otherconstituents help to achieve the segment purpose.We analyze the way in which each contributor relatesto the core from two perspectives, intentional and in-formational, as illustrated below.
Each constituentmay itself be a segment with its own core:contributorstructure.
For example, (C) is a subsegment whosetin order to make the example more intelligible tothe reader, we replaced references to parts of the circuitwith the simple labels partl, part~ and part3.131purpose is to give a reason for testing part2 first,namely that part2 is more susceptible to damageand therefore a more likely source of the circuit fault.The core of this subsegment is (C.2) because it mostdirectly expresses this purpose.
The contributor in(C.1) provides a reason for this susceptibility, i.e.,that part2 is moved frequently.ALTHOA.
you know that part1 is good,B.
you should eliminate part2before troubleshooting in part3.THIS IS BECAUSEC.
1. part2 is moved frequentlyAND THUS2.
is more susceptible to damage.Figure 1: An example tutor explanationDue to space limitations, we can provide only abrief description of core:contributor relations, andomit altogether the analysis of the example intothe minimal RDA units of state and action units,matrix expressions and clusters.
A contributor isanalyzed for both its intentional and informationalrelations to its core.
Intentional relations describehow a contributor may affect the heater's adoptionof the core.
For example, (A) in Figure 1 acknowl-edges a fact that might have led the student o makethe mistake.
Such a concession contributes to thehearer's adoption of the core in (B) by acknowledg-ing something that might otherwise interfere withthis intended effect.
Another kind of intentional re-lation is evidence, in which the contributors areintended to increase the hearer's belief in the core.For example, (C) stands in the evidence relation to(B).
The set of intentional relations in RDA is amodification of the presentational relations of RST.Each core:contributor pair is also analyzed for itsinformational relation.
These relations describe howthe situations referred to by the core and contributorare related in the domain.The RDA analysis of the example in Figure 1 isshown schematically in Figure 2.
As a convention,the core appears as the mother of all the relations itparticipates in.
Each relation is labeled with bothits intentional and informational relation, with theorder of relata in the label indicating the linear orderin the cliscourse.
Each relation node has up to twodaughters: the cue, if any, and the contributor, inthe order they appear in the discourse.2 Reliability of RDA applicationTo assess inter-coder reliability of RDA analyses,we compared two independent analyses of the samedata.
Because the results reported in this paper de-pend only on the structural aspects of the analysis,our reliability assessment is confined to these.
Theconce$$ton:corestep :prev-resultALTHO AB.
you should eliminate part2before troubleshooting in part3core:eride~cegcfion:regsoztTHIS IS C .2BECAUSE Ievidence:corec=uae:e.~ectC.1 ANDTHUSFigure 2: The RDA analysis of the example in Fig-ure 1categorization of core:contributor relations will notbe assessed here.The reliability coder coded one quarter of the cur-rently analyzed corpus, consisting of 132 clauses, 51segments, and 70 relations.
Here we report the per-centage of instances for which the reliability coderagreed with the main coder on the various aspectsof coding.There are several kinds of judgements made in anRDA analysis, and all of them are possible sourcesof disagreement.
First, the two coders could analyzea contributor as supporting different cores.
This oc-curred 7 times (90% agreement).
Second, the coderscould disagree on the core of a segment.
This oc-curred 2 times (97% agreement).
Third, the coderscould disagree on which relation a cue was associ-ated with.
This occurred 1 time (98% agreement).The final source of disagreement reflects more of atheoretical question than a question of reliable anal-ysis.
The coders could disagree on whether a rela-turn should be further analyzed into an embeddedcore:contributor structure.
This occurred 8 times(91% agreement).These rates of agreement cannot be sensibly com-pared to those found in studies of (nonembedded)segmentation agreement (Grosz and Hirschberg,1992; Passonneau and Litman, 1993; Hearst, 1994)because our assessment of RDA reliability differsfrom this work in several key ways.
First, the RDAcoding task is more complex than identifying lo-cations of segment boundaries.
Second, our sub-jects/coders are not naive about their task; they aretrained.
Finally, the data is not spoken as in theseother studies.Future work will include a more extensive relia-bility study, one that includes the intentional andinformational relations.1323 In i t ia l  resu l t s  and  the i r  app l i ca t ionFor each tutor explanation in our corpus, each coderanalyzes the text as described above, and then en-ters this analysis into a database.
The techniqueof representing an analysis in a database and thenusing database queries to test hypotheses i similarto work using RST analyses to investigate the formof purpose clauses (Vander Linden et al, 1992).
Be-cause our analysis is exhaustive, information aboutboth occurrence and nonoccurrence of cues can beretrieved from the database in order to test and mod-ify hypotheses about cue usage.
That  is, both cue-based and factor-based retrievals are possible.
Incue-based retrievals, we use an occurrence of the cueunder investigation as the criterion for retrieving thevalue of its hypothesized descriptive factors.
Factor-based retrievals provide information about cues thatis unique to this study.
In factor-based retrieval,the occurrence of a combination of descriptive factorvalues is the criteria for retrieving the accompanyingcues.
In this section, we report two results, one fromeach perspective: a comparison of the distribution ofsn~cE and BECAUSE in our corpus, and the impact ofembeddedness on cue selection.These results are based on the portion of our cor-pus that is analyzed and entered into the database,approximately 528 clauses.
These clauses comprise216 segments in which 287 relations were analyzed.Accompanying these relations were 165 cue occur-rences, resulting from 39 distinct cues.3.1 Cho ice  o f "S ince  ~' or  "Because"SINCE and BECAUSE were two of the most fre-quently used cues in our corpus, occurring 23and 13 times, respectively.
To investigate theirdistribution, we began with the proposal ofElhadad and McKeown (1990).
As with our study,their work aims to define each cue in terms of fea-tures of the propositions it connects for the pur-pose of cue selection during text generation.
Theirwork relies on the literature and intuitions to identifythese features, and thus provides an important back-ground for a corpus study by suggesting features toinclude in the corpus analysis and initial hypothesesto investigate.Quirk et al (1972) note several distributional dif-ferences between the two cues: (i) since is used whenthe contributor precedes the core, whereas BECAUSEtypically occurs when the core precedes the contribu-tor, (ii) BECAUSE can be used to directly answer a ~#hyquestion, whereas SINCE cannot, and (iii) BECAUSEcan be in the focus position of an it-cleft, whereasSINCE cannot.
These distributional differences arereflected in our corpus, and the ordering difference(i) is of particular interest.
SINCE and BECAUSE are al-ways placed with a contributor.
All but one (22/23)occurrences of Sn~CE accompanied relations in con-tributor:core order, while all (13/13) occurrences ofBECAUSE accompanied relations in core:contributororder 2.The crucial factor in distinguishing between S~CEand BECAUSE is the relative order of core and contrib-utor.
Elhadad and McKeown (1990) claim that thetwo cues differ with respect to what Ducrot (1983)calls "polyphony", i.e., whether the subordinate re-latum is attributed to the hearer or to the speaker.The idea is that SINCE is used when a relatum hasits informational source with the hearer (e.g., bybeing previously said or otherwise conveyed by thehearer).
BECAUSE is monophonous, i.e., its relataoriginate from a single utterer, while sINCE can bepolyphonous.
According to Elhadad and McKeown,polyphony is a kind of given-new distinction andthus the ordering difference between the two cuesreduces to the well-known tendency for given to pre-cede new.
Unfortunately, this characterization ofthe distinction between s~cg and BECAUSE is notsupported by our corpus study.As shown in Figure 3, whether or not contribu-tors could be attr ibuted to the hearer did not corre-late with the choice of SINCE or BECAUSE.
To judgewhether a contributor is attr ibutable to the student,mention of ~n action or result of a test that thestudent previously performed (e.g., you tested 30 to9round earlier) was counted as 'yes', while informa-tion available by observation (e.g., partl a~d part2are co~r~ected b~l wires), specialized circuit knowl-edge (e.g., part1 is used bll this test step) and gen-eral knowledge (e.g., part~ is more prone to damage )were counted as 'no'.Is  cont r ibutor  Cue  choicea t t r ibutab le  sINCE BECAUSEto s tudent?yes 13no 10Figure 3: Polyphony does not underlie the choicebetween SINCE and BECAUSE.This result shows that the choice between sinceand BECAUSE is determined by something other thanthe attributabil ity of contributor to hearer.
In fu-ture work, we will consider other factors that maydetermine ordering as possible alternative accountsfor this choice.
Another factor to be considered indistinguishing the two cues is the embeddedness dis-cussed in the next section.
Furthermore, this resultdemonstrates the need to move beyond small num-bers of constructed examples and intuitions formed~This included answers that begin with BECAUSE.
Inthese cases, we took the core to be the presupposition tothe question.133from unsystematic analyses of naturally occurringdata.
Only by an exhaustive analysis such as ourscan hypotheses such as the one discussed here besystematically evaluated.3.2 Effect of Segment  Embeddedness  onCue  SelectionThe second question we report on here concernswhether segment embeddedness affects cue selection.Much  of the work on cue usage, e.g., (Elhadad andMcKeown,  1990; Millis etal., 1993; Schiffrin, 1987;Zukerman, 1990) has focused on pairs of text spans,and this has led to the development of heuristicsfor cue selection that take into account the relationbetween the spans and other local features of the tworelata (e.g., relative ordering of core and contributor,complexity of each span).
However, analysis of ourcorpus led us to hypothesize that the hierarchicalcontext in which a relation occurs, i.e., what seg-ment(s) the relation is embedded in, is a factor incue usage.For example, recall that the relation between C.1and C.2 in Figure 2 was expressed as part~ is movedfrequently, AND THUS it is more susceptible to dam-age.
Now, the relation between C.1 and C.2 couldhave been expressed, BECAUSE part2 is muted fre-quently, it is more musceptible to damage.
However,this relation is embedded in the contributor of therelation between B and C, which is cued by THIS ISBECAUSE.
Intuitively, we expect that, when a rela-tion is embedded in another elation already markedby BECAUSE, a speaker will select an alternative toBECAUSE to mark the embedded relation.
That is,two relations, one embedded in the other, should besignaled by different cues.
Because RDA analysescapture the hierarchical structure of texts, we wereable to explore the effect of embedding on cue selec-tion.We hypothesized that cue selection for one rela-tion constrains the cue selection for relations em-bedded in it to be a different cue.
To test this hy-pothesis, we paired each cue occurrence with all theother cue occurrences in the same turn.
Then, foreach pair of cues in the same turn, it was catego-rized in two ways: (1) the embeddedness of the rela-tions associated with the two cues, and (2) whetherthe two cues are the same, alternatives or different.Two cues are alternatives when their use with a re-lation would contribute (approximately) the samesemantic ontent s .
The sets of alternatives in ourdata are {ALSO,AND}, {BUT,ALTHOUGH,HOWEVER) andSBecause it is based on a test of intersubstitutability,the taxonomy proposed by Knott and Dale (1994) doesnot establish the sets of alternatives that are of inter-est here.
Two cues may be intersubstitutable in somecontexts but not semantic alternatives (e.g., AND andBECAUSE), or they may be semantic alternatives but notintersubstitutable because they are placed in differentpositions in a relation (e.g., so and BECAUSE).{BECAUSE,SINCE,SO,THUS,THEREFOI:tE}.
The questionis whether the choice between the same and an al-ternate cue correlates with the embeddedness of thetwo relations.As shown in Figure 4, we can conclude that, whena relation is going to have a cue that is semanticallysimilar to the cue of a relation it is embedded in, analternative cue must be chosen.
Other researchers intext generation recognized the need to avoid repeti-tion of cues within a single text and devised heuris-tics such as "avoid repeating the same connectiveas long as there are others available" (Roesner andStede, 1992).
Our results show that this heuristicis over constraining.
The first column of Figure 4shows that the same cue may occur within a singleexplanation as long as there is no embedding be-tween the two relations being cued.
Based on theseresults, our text generation algorithm will use em-beddedness as a factor in cue selection.Are  re la t |ons  II Cue  choiceembedded?
Same I Alternate.
.. yes 0 7no 6 18Figure 4: Embeddedness correlates with choice be-tween same and alternate cues.4 ConclusionsWe have introduced Relational Discourse Analysis, acoding scheme for the exhaustive analysis of text orsingle speaker discourse.
RDA is a synthesis of ideasfrom two theories of discourse structure (Grosz andSidner, 1986; Mann and Thompson, 1988).
It pro-vides a system for analyzing discourse and formulat-ing hypotheses about cue selection and placement.The corpus study results in rules for cue selectionand placement hat will then be exercised by ourtext generator.
Evaluation of these automaticallygenerated texts forms the basis for further explo-ration of the corpus and subsequent refinement ofthe rules for cue selection and placement.Two initial results from the corpus study werereported.
While the factor of core:contributor or-der accounted for the choice between s~ce and BE-CAUSE, this factor could not be explained in termsof whether the contributor can be attributed to thehearer.
Alternative explanations for the orderingfactor will be explored in future work, includingother types given-new distinctions and larger con-textual factors such as focus.
Second, the cue selec-tion for one relation was found to constrain the cueselection for embedded relations to be distinct cues.Both of these results are being implemented in ourtext generator.134AcknowledgmentsThe research described in this paper was supportedby the Office of Naval Research, Cognitive and Neu-ral Sciences Division (Grant Number: N00014-91-J-1694), and a grant from the DoD FY93 Augmen-tation of Awards for Science and Engineering Re-search Training (ASSERT) Program (Grant Num-ber: N00014-93-I-0812).
We are grateful to ErinGlendening for her patient and careful coding anddatabase ntry, and to Maria Gordin for her relia-bility coding.ReferencesO.
Ducrot.
1983.
Le seas commun.
Le dire et le dit.Les editions de Minuit, Paris.Michael Elhadad and Kathleen McKeown.
1990.Generating connectives.
In Proceedings of theThirteenth International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 97-101, Helsinki.Susan R. Goldman and John D. Murray.
1992.Knowledge of connectors as cohesion devices intext: A comparative study of native-englishspeakers.
Journal of Educational Ps~lchology,44(4):504-519.Barbara Grosz and Julia Hirschberg.
1992.
Someintonational characteristics of discourse structure.In Proceedings of the International Conference onSpoken Language Processing.Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner.
1986.
At-tention, intention, and the structure of discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12(3):175-204.Marti Hearst.
1994.
Multl-paragraph segmentationof expository discourse.
In Proceedings of the 32ndAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman.
1993.
Empiri-cal studies on the disambiguation f cue phrases.Computational Linguistics, 19(3):501-530.Jerry R. Hobbs.
1985.
On the coherence and struc-ture of discourse.
Technical Report CSLI-85-37,Center for the Study of Language and Informa-tion, Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford,California, October.Alistair Knott and Robert Dale.
1994.
Using lin-guistic pheomena to motivate a set of coherencerelations.
Discourse Processes, 18(1):35-62.Diane J. Litman and James F. Allen.
1987.
A planrecognition model for subdialogues in conversa-tions.
Cognitive Science, 11:163-200.Robert Lorch.
1989.
Text signaling devices andtheir effects on reading and memory processes.Educational Ps~/chology Review, 1:209-234.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.
1988.Rhetorical Structure Theory: Towards a func-tional theory of text organization.
TEXT,8(3):243-281.Danielle S. McNamara, Eileen Kintsch, Nancy But-ler Songer, and Walter Klatsch.
In press.
Aregood texts always better?
Interactions of textcoherence, background knowledge, and levels ofunderstanding in learning from text.
Cognitionand Instruction.Keith Millis, Arthur Gracsser, and Karl Haberlandt.1993.
The impact of connectives on the memoryfor expository text.
Applied Cognitive PsT/ehology,7:317-339.Johanna D. Moore and Martha E. Pollack.
1992.A problem for RST: The need for multi-leveldiscourse analysis.
Computational Linguistics,18(4):537-544.Megan Moser and Johanna D. Moore.
1993.
Inves-tigating discourse relations.
In Proceedings of theA CL Workshop on Intentionalit!/and Stureture inDiscourse Relations, pages 94-98.Rebecca Passonneau and Diane Litmus.
1993.Intention-based segmentation: Human reliabilityand correlation with linguistic cues.
In Proceed-ings of the 81st Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Randolph Quirk et al 1972.
A Grammar of Con.temporary English.
Longman, London.Dietmar Roesner and Manfred Stede.
1992.
Cus-tomizing RST for the automatic productionof technical manuals.
In R. Dale, E. Hovy,D.
Rosner, and O.
Stock, editors, Proceedingsof the Sizth International Workshop on Natu-ral Language Generation, pages 199-215, Berlin.Springer-Verlag.Deborah Schiffrin.
1987.
Discourse Markers.
Cam-bridge University Press, New York.Donia Scott and Clarisse Sieckenius de Souza.
1990.Getting the message across in RST-based textgeneration.
In R. Dale, C. Mellish, and M. Zock,editors, Current Research in Natural LanguageGeneration, pages 47-73.
Academic Press, NewYork.Keith Vander Linden, Susanna Cumming, andJames Martin.
1992.
Expressing local rhetoricalrelations in instructional text.
Technical Report92-43, University of Colorado.
To appear in Com-putational Linguistics.Ingrid Zukerman.
1990.
A predictive approach forthe generation of rhetorical devices.
Computa-tional Intelligence, 6(1):25-40.135
