Towards a Cognitively Plausible Model for QuantificationWal id S. SabaAT&T Bell Laboratories480 Red Hill Rd., Middletown, NJ 07748 USAandCarelton University, School of Computer ScienceOttawa, Ontario, KIS-5B6 CANADAwalid@eagle.hr.att.comAbstractThe purpose of this paper is to suggest hatquantifiers in natural languages do not have afixed truth functional meaning as has longbeen held in logical semantics.
Instead wesuggest that quantifiers can best be modeledas complex inference procedures that arehighly dynamic and sensitive to the linguisticcontext, as well as time and memoryconstraints 1.1 IntroductionVirtually all computational models of quantification arebased one some variation of the theory of generalizedquantifiers (Barwise and Perry, 1981), and Montague's(1974) (henceforth, PTQ).Using the tools of intensional ogic and possible-worlds semantics, PTQ models were able to cope withcertain context-sensitive aspects of natural anguage bydevising interpretation relative to a context, where thecontext was taken to be an "index" denoting a possible-world and a point in time.
In this framework, theintension (meaning) of an expression is taken to be afunction from contexts to extensions (denotations).In what later became known as "indexical semantics",Kaplan (1979) suggested adding other coordinatesdefining a speaker, a listener, a location, etc.
As such, anutterance such as "I called you yesterday" expressed adifferent content whenever the speaker, the listener, orthe time of the utterance changed.While model-theoretic semantics were able to copewith certain context-sensitive aspects of naturallanguage, the intensions (meanings) of quantJfiers,however, as well as other functional words, such assentential connectives, are taken to be constant.
That is,such words have the same meaning regardless of thecontext (Forbes, 1989).
In such a framework, all naturallanguage quantifiers have their meaning grounded interms of two logical operators: V (for all), and q (thereexists).
Consequently, all natural language quantifiers!
The support and guidance of Dr. Jean-Pierre Corriveau ofCarleton University isgreatly appreciated.are, indirectly, modeled by two logical connectives:negation and either conjunction or disjunction.
In suchan oversimplified model, quantifier ambiguity has oftenbeen translated to scoping ambiguity, and elaboratemodels were developed to remedy the problem, bysemanticists (Cooper, 1983; Le Pore et al 1983; Partee,1984) as well as computational linguists (Harper, 1992;Alshawi, 1990; Pereira, 1990; Moran, 1988).
Theproblem can be illustrated by the following examples:(la) Every student in CS404 received a grade.
(lb) Every student in CS404 received a course outline.The syntactic structures of (la) and (lb) are identical,and thus according to Montague's PTQ would have thesame translation.
Hence, the translation of (lb) wouldincorrectly state that students in CS404 receiveddifferent course outlines.
Instead, the desired reading isone in which "a" has a wider scope than "every" statingthat there is a single course outline for the courseCS404, an outline that all students received.
Clearly,such resolution depends on general knowledge of thedomain: typically students in the same class receive thesame course outline, but different grades.
Due to thecompositionality requirement, PTQ models can not copewith such inferences.
Consequently a number ofsyntactically motivated rules that suggest an ad hocsemantic ordering between functional words aretypically suggested.
See, for example, (Moran, 1988) 2 .What we suggest, instead, is that quantifiers in naturallanguage be treated as ambiguous words whosemeaning is dependent on the linguistic context, as wellas time and memory constraints.2 Disambiguation of QuantifiersDisambiguation f quantifiers, in our opinion, falls underthe general problem of "lexical disambiguation', whichis essentially an inferencing problem (Corriveau, 1995).2 In recent years a number of suggestions have beenmade, such as discourse representation theory (DRT)(Kamp, 1981), and the use of what Cooper (1995) calls the"background situation ~.
However, in beth approaches theavailable context is still "syntactic ~ in nature, and nosuggestion is made on how relevant background knowledgecan be made available for use in a model-theoretic model.323Briefly, the disambiguation of "a" in (la) and (lb) isdetermined in an interactive manner by considering allpossible knferences between the underlying concepts.What we suggest is that the inferencing involved in thedisambiguation f "a" in (la) proceeds as follows:l. A path from grade and student, s, in addition todisambiguating grade, determines that grade, g, is afeature of student.2.
Having established this relationship between studentsand grades, we assume the fact this relationship ismany-to-many is known.3.
"a grade" now refers to "a student grade", and thusthere is "a grade" for "every student".What is important to note here is that, by discoveringthat grade is a feature of student, we essentiallydetermined that "grade" is a (skolem) function of"student", which is the effect of having "a" fall under thescope of "every'.
However, in contrast to syntacticapproaches that rely on devising ad hoc rules, such arelation is discovered here by performing inferencesusing the properties that hold between the underlyingconcepts, resulting in a truly context-sensitive account ofscope ambiguities.
The inferencing involved in thedisambiguation f "a" in (lb), proceeds as follows:1.
A path from course and outline disambiguates outline,and determines outline to be a feature of course.2.
The relationship between course and outline isdetermined tobe a one-to-one relationship.3.
A path from course to CS404 determines that CS404 isa course.4.
Since there is one course, namely CS404, "a courseoutline" refers to "the" course outline.3 Time and Memory ConstraintsIn addition to the lingusitic context, we claim that themeaning of quantifiers is also dependent on time andmemory constraints.
For example, consider(2a) Cubans prefer rum over vodka.
(21)) Students in CS404 work in groups.Our intuitive reading of (2a) suggests that we have animplicit "most", while in (2b) we have an implicit "all".We argue that such inferences are dependent on timeconstraints and constraints on working memory.
Forexample, since the set of students in CS404 is a muchsmaller set than the set of "Cubans", it is conceivablethat we are able to perform an exhaustive search overthe set of all students in CS404 to verify the propositionin (2b) within some time and memory constraints.
In(2a), however, we are most likely performing a"generalization" based on few examples that arecurrently activated in short-term memory (STlVi).
Oursuggestion of the role of time and memory constraints ibased on our view of properties and their negation Wesuggest that there are three ways to conceive ofproperties and their negation, as shown in Figure 1below.
(a) (b) (c)F'~gure I.
Three models of negation.In (a), we take the view that if we have no informationregarding P(x), then, we cannot decide on -~P(x).
In (b),we take the view that if P can not be confirmed of someentity x, then P(x) is assumed to be false 3.
In (c),however, we take the view that if there is no evidence tonegate P(x), then assume P(x).
Note that model (c)essentially allows one to "generalize", given no evidenceto the contrary - or, given an overwhelming positiveevidence.
Of course, formally speaking, we areinterested in defining the exact circumstances underwhich models (a) through (c) might be appropriate.
Webelieve that the three models are used, depending onthe context, time, and memory constraints.
In model (c),we believe the truth (or falsity) of a certain propertyP(x) is a function of the following:np(P#) number of positive instances atisfying P(x)nn(P#) number of negative instances atisfying P(x)cf(P#) the degree to which P is ~gencrally" believed of x.It is assumed here that cfis a value v ~ {J.}
u \[0,1\].
Thatis, a value that is either undefined, or a real valuebetween 0 and 1.
We also suggest hat this value isconstantly modified (re-enforced) through a feedbackmechanism, as more examples are experienced 4.4 Role of Cognitive ConstraintsThe basic problem is one of interpreting statements ofthe form every C P (the set-theoretic counterpart of thewff Vx(C(x)---)P(x)), where C has an indeterminatecardinality.
Verifying every C P is depicted graphically inFigure 2.
It is assumed that the property P is generallyattributed to members of the concept C with certaintycf(C,P), where cf(C,P)--O represents he fact that P is notgenerally assumed of objects in C. On the other hand, avalue of cf near 1, represents a strong bias towardsbelieving P of C at face value.
In the former case, theprocessing will depend little, if at all, on our generalbelief, but more on the actual instances.
In the lattercase, and especially when faced with time and memoryconstraints, more weight might be given to priorstereotyped knowledge that we might haveaccumulated.
More precisely:3 This is the Closed World Assumption.4 .
.
.
.
.
.
Thin Is similar to the dynamm reasoning process uggested byWang (1995).3241.
An attempt at an exhaustive verification of all theelements in the set C is first made (this is the defaultmeaning of "every").2.
If time and memory capacity allow the processing of allthe elements in C, then the result is "true" if np= ICI(that is, if every C P), and "false" otherwise.3.
If time and/or memory constraints do not allow anexhaustive verification, then we will attempt making adecision based on the evidence at hand, where theevidence isbased on of, nn, np (a suggested function isgiven below).4.
In 3, ef is computed from C elements that are currentlyactive in short-term emory (if any), otherwise cf is thecurrent value associated with C the KB.5.
The result is used to update our certainty factor, ef,based on the current evidence ~.
"cmnp nnF'~ure 2.
Quantification with time and memory constraints.In the case of 3, the final output is determined as afunction F, that could be defined as follows:(13) Frca,)(nn, p, e, cf, o9 =(np > &nn) ^  (cf(C,P) >= co)where e and co are quantifier-specific parameters.
In thecase of "every", the function in (13) states that, in theabsence of time and memory resources to process everyC P exhaustively, the result of the process is ~-ue" ifthere is an overwhelming positive evidence (high valuefor e), and if the there is some prior stereotyped beliefsupporting this inference (i.e., if cf > co > 0).
Thisessentially amounts to processing every C P as most C P(example (2a)).ff "most" was the quantifier we started with, then thefunction in (13) and the above procedure can be applied,although smaller values for G and co will be assigned.
Atthis point it should be noted that the above function is ageneralization of the theory of generalized quantifiers,where quantifiers can be interpreted using this functionas shown in the table below.5 The nature of this feedback mechanism is quite involved, andwill not be discussed be discussed here.quantifier npnp-  ICInnnp-  0every nn - 0some np> 0 nn < IClno nn-  ICI~>0s>Os<OWe are currently in the process of formalizing ourmodel, and hope to define a context-sensitive model forquantification that is also dependent on time andmemory constraints.
In addition to the "cognitiveplausibility' requirement, we require that the modelpreserve formal properties that are generally attributedto quantifiers innatural language.ReferencesAlshawi, H. (1990).
Resolving Quasi Logical Forms,Computational Linguistics, 6(13), pp.
133-144.Barwise, J. and Cooper, R. (1981).
GeneralizedQuantifiers and Natural Language, Linguistics andPhilosophy, 4  pp.
159-219.Cooper, 1L (1995), The Role of Situations inGeneralized Quantifiers, In L Shalom (Ed.
), Handbookof Contemporary Semantic Theory, Blackwell.Cooper, R. (1983).
Quantification and SyntacticTheory, D. Reidel, Dordrecht, Netherlands.Corriveau, J.-P. (1995).
Time-Constrained Memory, toappear, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, NJ.Forbes, G, (1989).
Indexicals, In D. Gabby et al(Eds.
), Handbook of Phil.
Logic: IV, D. Reidel.Harper, M. P. (1992).
Ambiguous Noun Phrases inLogical Form, COmp.
Linguistics, 18(4), pp.
419-465.Kamp, H. (1981), A Theory of Truth and SemanticRepresentation, In Groenendijk, et al(Eds.
), FormalMethods in the Study of Language, MathematischCentrum, Amsterdam.Kaplan, D. (1979).
On the Logic of Demonstratives,Journal of Philosophical Logic, 8, pp.
81-98.Le Pore, E. and Garson, J.
(1983).
Pronouns andQuantifier-Scope in English,J.
of Phil.
Logic, 12.Montague, 1L (1974).
Formal Philosophy: SelectedPapers of Richard Montague.
R. Thomason (ed.).
YaleUniversity Press.Moran, D. B.
(1988).
Quantifier Scoping in the SRICore Language, In Proceedings of26th Annual Meeting ofthe ACL, pp.
3,340.Partee, B.
(1984).
Quantification, Pronouns, and VP-Anaphora, In J. Groenedijk et alreds.
), Truth,Interpretation a d Information, Dordrecht: Foils.Pereira, F. C. N. and Pollack, M. E. (1991).Incremental Interpretation, Artificial Intelligence, 50.Wang, P. (1994), From Inheritance Relation to Non-Axiomatic Logic, International Journal of ApproximateReasoning, (accepted June 1994 - to appear).Zeevat, H. (1989).
A Compositional Approach toDiscourse Representation theory, Linguistics andPhilosophy, 12, pp.
95-131.325
