Polyphony and Argumentat ive SemanticsJ ean-Miche l  Grandchamp*L IMSI -CNRSB.P.
133 91403 ORSAY CEDEX FRANCEkMevala@limsi .
f rAbstractWe extract from sentences a superstruc-ture made of argumentative operators andconnectives applying to the remaining setof terminal sub-sentences.
We found theargumentative interpretation of utteranceson a semantics defined at the linguistic le-vel.
We describe the computation of thisparticular semantics, based on the cons-traints that the superstructure impels tothe argumentative power of terminal sub-sentences.1 IntroductionCertain utterance structures contain linguistic cluesthat constrain their interpretation on an argumen-tative basis.
The following example illustrates theseconstraints:I was robbed yesterday...(1) ...but luckily I had little money.
(2) ...but luckily I had a little money.
(3) ...but unfortunately I had little money.
(4) ...but unfortunately I had a little money.We describe and compute the signification of suchsentences by specifying how the key words (in italics)constrain the argumentative power of the terminalsub-sentences (TSS) "I was robbed yesterday" and"I had money".
They may all be interpreted in arelevant context, but hints for recognizing the needof an "odd" context are given.
For instance, in (1)and (2), the robbery is considered bad because of theopposition introduced by "but", to something con-sidered happy because of "luckily".
Holding moneyis considered good in (2) and bad in (1) because ofthe general structure of the sentence and the oppo-sition between "little" and "a little".
In (3) and (4),the robbery is considered good, while in (3) moneyis normally considered good too, and in (4) (the od-dest) it is considered bad (imagine a speaker who* This research is supported by SNCF, Direction dela Recherche, D6partement RP, 45 rue de Londres, 75379Paris Cedex 08 France.usually likes to be robbed just to see the disappoint-ment because he holds no money).
We see on theseexamples that TSS's are argumentatively ambiguousand modifiers constrain them.In this paper we propose, for a given utterance,the construction of the signification of the under-lying sentence, which captures its polyphonic andargumentative aspects.
The signification of a sent-ence is viewed as the application of an argumentativesuper-structure to the signification of TSS's, free ofoperators or connectives.
The signification must fi-nally be interpreted in the context of the utterance.2 L ingu is t i c  BackgroundOur model rests on a framework inspired by Ducrot(1980).
He defines an utterance as a concrete occur-rence of an abstract entity called a sentence.
Under-standing an utterance means computing its meaning,which may be formalized in different contexts (suchas speech acts or beliefs).
The meaning is built fromthe context and from the signification of the sent-ence which :lescribes all potential uses of the lin-guistic matter.
Ducrot's integrated pragmafics alsoclaims that many phenomena usually described atthe pragmatic level, must be described in the signi-fication (such as argumentation).Within Ducrot's framework, we use his theory ofpolyphony, topoi and modifiers.
Polyphony is atheory that models utterances with three levels ofcharacters.
The talking subject refers to the per-son who pronounced the words.
The talking subjectintroduces the speaker to whom the words are at-tributed (different from the talking subject in somecases such as indirect speech).
Sentences contain li-teral semantic ontents, each one being under theresponsibility of an utterer.
The relation betweenthe speaker of a sentence and the utterer of a con-tent defines the commitment of the speaker to sucha semantic ontent.
This commitment takes one ofthe following values: identification (ID), opposition(OPP) and partial commitment (PC) (Ducrot, 1984;Grandchamp, 1994).Sentences are chained under linguistic warrants305called topoi (plural of topos).
Topoi are found inwords.
In a sentence or a combination of sentences,some topoi are selected, others are not relevant othe discourse context.
In the interpretative process,still others will be eliminated because of irrelevanceto the situation.
A topos is selected under one ofits topical forms, made up of a direction (positive ornegative) and other parameters.
The topical form isselected with a given strength.
For instance, there isa topos T linking wealth to acquisitions.
The word"rich" may be seen as the positive form of T thatsays "when you are rich you may buy a lot of things".The word "poor"  contains the negative form of thesame topos T, that is "when you are not rich youmay not buy a lot of things".
Unlike the warrants ofToulmin (1958), topoi are not logic warrants.
Theymay give some support for inferences, but do nothave to.The strength is ruled by a subclass of operatorscalled modifiers, whose semantics is described pre-cisely as modifying the strength of a selected topos.Such words include "very", "little" or "a little".
Mo-differs combine with each other and with argumentsentences.
The strength is specified by a lexical-based partial ordering, producing non-quantitativedegrees imilar to Klein's (1982) .3 Computat iona l  F ramework3.1 S ign i f icat ion o f  sentencesWe have discarded the utterance/sentence level ofpolyphony in order to simplify the presentation.
Gi-ven a set of topoi T, a set of strength markers F, theset D={positive, negative} of directions, and the setV={ID,PC,OPP} of polyphonic values, we define theset C=TxFxDxV of argumentative c lls: the topos,its direction, the strength and the polyphonic om-mitment.
The signification of a sentence is definedas a disjunction of subsets of C.3.2 SyntaxGiven a sentence, we identify operators, connectivesand modifiers, and build the A-structure of the sent-ence linking these linguistic clues to the TSS's.
Asample A-structure is given in Figure 1.
Connecti-ves constrain a pair of sentences or a sentence anda discursive nvironment, operators constrain argu-mentative power, and modifiers constrain only ar-gumentative orientation and strength.
In addition,connectives and operators also specify the commit-ment of the speaker to semantic ontents, by meansof the theory of polyphony.3.3 Lex ica l  cont r ibut ionsA TSS has a semantics that is described in termsof predications, all but one being marked by pre-supposition.
The semantics of each predication isdescribed as a set of argumentative c lls.
Connecti-ves and operators contribute to the computation ofConnect ivebut I\[ Unfortunately \]\[ Terminal  sentence I Termina l  sentence\[I was robbed yesterday I had moneyFigure 1: A-structure for "I was robbed yesterday,but unfortunately I had a little money"the signification in terms of functional transforma-tions of the signification along the four dimensionsof the cells.
The signification of TSS is assumed tobe computed from the lexicon by a compositionalprocess.3.4 Argumentat ive  s t ructureThe A-structure is then considered as the applica-tion of an argumentative structure (made of modi-fiers, operators and connectives) to a vector of TSS's.The signification of a complete sentence is computedas the application of what we call the &-structure.A &-structure is a function that takes as many argu-ments as there are TSS's, and is defined by using ba-sic functions that are also used for the description ofoperators and connectives.
Examples of basic func-tions that operate cell by cell are the modification ofthe polyphonic value, the direction or the strength.Examples of basic functions that operate on a setofcells are the selection of cells with a given poly-phonic value, topos or direction.
The ~-structureis computed recursively on the A-structure.
As theidentification or the contribution of an operator maybe ambiguous, the ~-structures may contain disjunc-tions.3.5 Computat ionGiven a se.atence, its (ambiguous) A- and ~-structures are computed.
In the normal bottom-upprocess, the signification of TSS's is computed, andthe ?-structure is applied.
The result is the (ambi-guous) signification of the complete sentence.If the signification of TSS's reflects their "stan-dard" or "literal" potential, the normal bottom-upprocess may fail.
We wish to design &-structures othat they may be used for two additional tasks thatmay require a top-down process: (1) accept TSS de-scriptions containing free variables, and produce thesets of constraints on them that lead to a solution;(2) provide the interpretation process with a way ofgenerating "unusual significations" of TSS's requi-red by the global effect of the ~-structure.3064 Sample Lexical DescriptionsConnective "but" :  the signification of "P1 butP2" is computed from the significations of P1 andP2, with the following modifications: generate al-ternatives according to a partition of topoi of P1and P2 (whose cells have free commitment varia-bles) with the "opposite" relation which holds in T;in each alternative, commit he corresponding cellswith the value PC for P1 and ID for P2.
"P1 but P2"will argue in the same way as P2 alone, based on atopos that can be opposed to one of P1.Modif ier "a  l i tt le":  the signification of "a littleP" is the one of P where the strength of all cells isattenuated.Modif ier " l i t t le":  the signification of "little P"changes the direction of the cells into the conversevalue (anti-orientation).TSS " John  stopped smoking": its significationis formed of two sets of cells, the commitment valuebeing fixed to Pc for the cells from the presupposedpredication \[John smoked before\] and left free forthe main predication \[John does not smoke now\].5 InterpretationThe signification of TSS's, connectives, and opera-tors may contain instructions referring to the con-text for the attribution of values.
The interpretativeprocess must fill these holes.
It also further selectsin the sets of topoi those connected to the situation.It drives the top-down process for generating datacorresponding to "odd" contexts.We claim that the argumentative structure ofsentences i never questioned by the interpretativeprocess, that it fully captures the argumentative po-tential of the sentence and that it is reliable.
Thesignification is then a firm base for the computationof the meaning.6 Related WorkMost works on argumentation define links betweenpropositions at a logical evel, so that linguistic stu-dies focus on pragmatics rather than semantics (Co-hen, 1987).
Some ideas of Ducrot were already usedin systems: argumentative orientation (Guez, I990)and polyphony (Elhadad and McKeown, 1990).
Be-sides, Itaccah (1990) develops argumentative seman-tics without he need of a theory of utterance.7 Conc lus ionWe have isolated asemantic module which allows theinterpretation process to take into account he ar-gumentative constraints imposed by linguistic lues.We designed this module so that it starts from le-xical descriptions which we are able to provide ma-nually, and produces a structure whose interpreta-tion can be computed.
Remaining difficulties lay inthe linguistic theories themselves (mainly combiningmodifiers and cataloguing topoi), the signification ofTSS's (which should be compositional) and the inte-gration of argumentative semantics with informativeand illocutionary elements.Re ferencesIt.
Cohen.
1987.
AnMyzing the structure of argu-mentative discourse.
Computational linguistics,13(1-2).O.
Ducrot et al 1980.
Les roots du discours, les~ditions de Minuit.O.
Ducrot.
1984.
Le dire et le dit.
les ~ditions deMinuit.M.
Elhadad and K. It.
McKeown.
1990.
Generatingconnectives.
In Proc.
Coling, Helsinki, Finland.J.-M. Grandchamp.
1994. l~nonciation et dia-logue homme-machine.
In Proc.
Le Dialogique,Le Mans, France.S.
Guez.
1990.
A computational model for argu-ments understanding.
In Proc.
Coling, Heisinki,Finland.E.
Klein.
1982.
The interpretation f linguistic om-paratives.
Journal of Linguistics, 18.P.-Y.
Itaccah.
1990.
Modelling argumentation, ormodelling with argumentation.
Argumentation, 4.S.
Toulmin.
1958.
The uses of Arguments.
Cam-bridge University Press.307
