From route  descr ip t ions  to sketches:a mode l  for a text - to - image t rans la torLidia FraczakL IMSI -CNRS,  b?t.
508, BP  13391403 Orsay  cedex,  F rancef raczak@l ims i .
f rAbst rac tThis paper deals with the automatic trans-lation of route descriptions into graphicsketches.
We discuss some general prob-lems implied by such inter-mode transcrip-tion.
We propose a model for an automatictext-to-image translator with a two-stageintermediate representation i which thelinguistic representation f a route descrip-tion precedes the creation of its conceptualrepresentation.1 In t roduct ionComputer text- image transcription has lately be-come a subject of interest, prompting research onrelations between these two modes of representa-tion and on possibilities of transition from one tothe other.
Different types of text and of imageshave been considered, for example: narrative textand motion pictures (Kahn, 1979; Abraham and De-scl~s, 1992), spatial descriptions and 3-dimensionalsketches (Yamada et al, 1992; Arnold and Lebrun,1992), 2-dimensional spatial scenes and linguistic de-scriptions (Andr~ et al, 1987), 2-dimensional imagesequences and linguistic reports (Andr~ et al, 1988).Linguistic and pictorial modes may be consideredas complementary since they are capable of convey-ing different kinds of content (Arnold, 1990).
Thiscomplementarity of expression is explored in order tobe used in multi-modal systems for human-computerinteraction such as computer assisted architecturalconception (Arnold and Lebrun, 1992).
Such sys-tems should not only use different modes to ensurebetter communication, but should also be able topass from one to the other.
Given the differencesin capacities of these two means of expression, onemay expect some problems in trying to encode intoa picture the information contained in a linguisticdescription.The present research is concerned with routedescriptions (RDs) and their translation into 2-dimensional graphic sketches.
We deal with a typeof discourse whose informational content may seemquite easy to represent in a graphic mode.
In every-day communication situations, verbal RDs are oftenaccompanied by sketches, thus participating in a 2-mode representation.
A sketch can also function asa route representation by itself.We will first outline some problems that may ap-pear while translating descriptions into graphics.Then we will describe our general model for an auto-matic translator and some aspects of the underlyingknowledge representation.2 Some t rans la t ion  prob lemsOur first approach to translate RDs into graphicmaps consisted in manually transcribing linguisticdescriptions into sketches.
By doing this, we encoun-tered several problems, some of which we will try toillustrate through the following example, taken fromthe French corpus of (Gryl, 1992).Example  2.1 A la sortie des tourniquets du RERtu prends sur ta gauche.
II y a une magni\]ique de-scente~ prendre.
Puis tu tournes ~ droite, tu tombessur une sdrie de panneaux d'informations.
Tu con-tinues tout droit en longeant les terrains de tenniset tu tombes ur le bdtiment A.
1In the description here above we can observe someambiguities, or incompleteness of information, whichmay be a problem for a graphic depiction.
Themost striking case is the information about the ten-nis courts: we do not know on which side of the path,right or left, they are located.1 At the turnstiles of the RER station you turn left.There is a steep (a magnificent) downgrade to take.Then you turn right, you come across a series of signposts.
You continue straight on, passing alongside thetennis courts, and you come to building A.299There is also another kind of ambiguity due tothe fact that in a RD the whole path does nothave to be "linguistically covered".
Consider thefragment about turning to the left ("tu prends surta gauche") and the downgrade ("descente").
Itis difficult to judge whether the downgrade is lo-cated right after the turn, or "a little further".
Thesame question holds for the right turn ("puis tutournes ~ droite") and the sign posts ("panneauxd'informations"): should the posts be representedas immediately following the turning point (as ex-pressed in the text) or should there be a path be-tween them?
This kind of ambiguity is not reallyperceived unless we want to derive a graphic repre-sentation of the route.
The information is completeenough for a real life situation of finding one's way.Another kind of problem concerns the "magnifiquedescente".
It would not be easy to represent a slopein a simple sketch and, even less so, its characteristicof being steep, which the French word "magnifique"suggests in this context.
The incompleteness of in-formation will occur on the graphic side this time,not all properties of the described element being pos-sible to express in this mode.Such transcription constraints, once defined andanalyzed, should be taken into account in order toobtain a "faithful" graphic representation.
It seemsthat, in some cases, verbal-side incompleteness prob-lems might be solved thanks to some relevant linguis-tic markers, as well as to the knowledge includedin the conceptual model of the route.
We thinkhere in particular of the questions whether there isa significant stretch of path between two elementsof environment (landmarks), or a turn and a land-mark, mentioned in the text immediately one after?
the other.
Concerning the ambiguity related to thelocation of landmarks, one can either choose an ar-bitrary value or try to find a way of preserving theambiguity in the graphic mode itself.We have mentioned here only some of the prob-lems concerning the translation of RDs into graphicsketches.
We have not considered those parts oflinguistic description contents which are not repre-sentable by images, such as comments or evaluations(e.g.
"you can't miss it"; "it's very simple").3 S teps  o f  the  t rans la t ion  processTranslating linguistic utterances into a pictorial codecannot be done without an intermediate r presenta-tion, that is, a conceptual structure that bridges thegap between these two expression modes (Arnold,1990).
Abraham and Descl~s (1992) talk about thenecessity of creating a common semantics for the twomodes.In our case, the purpose of the intermediate r pre-sentation is to extract from the linguistic descriptionthe information concerning the route with the aim ofrepresenting it in the form of a sketch.
However, in-stead of trying to create a unique "super-structure",we envisage adual representation, with the linguisticand the conceptual levels.
The core of the process oftranslating RDs into graphic maps will thus consistin the transition from the linguistic representationto the conceptual one.For the sake of the linguistic representation, wethought it necessary to carry out an analysis of realexamples and elaborate a linguistic model of thisparticular type of discourse.
We have worked on acorpus of 60 route descriptions in French.
The anal-ysis has been performed at two levels: the globallevel and the local level.
Global analysis consistedin dividing descriptions into global units, definedas sequences and connections, and in categorizingthese units on a functional and thematic basis.
Wehave thus specified several categories of route de-scription sequences, the main ones being action pre-scriptions (e.g.
"tu continues tout droit") and land-mark indications (e.g.
"tu tombes sur le b?timentA.").
2 The inter-sequence onnections (e.g.
"puis","quand", "ou": "then", "when", "or"), which markthe relationships between sequences or groups of se-quences, have been categorized according to theirfunctions (e.g.
succession, anchorage, alternative).Local analysis consisted in the determination of se-mantic sub-units of descriptions and in the definitionof the content of different sequences with respect othese sub-units.
These latter will enable, during theprocessing of a RD, to extract and represent infor-mation concerning actions and landmarks, and theirattributes.
Thus, one of the objectives of local anal-ysis has been to determine which types of verbs inthe RD express travel actions and which ones serveto introduce landmarks.
The sub-units have beenfurther analyzed and divided into types (e.g.
differ-ent types of actions).For the purpose of the conceptual representationof RDs, we need a prototypical model of their refer-ent which is the route.
We have decomposed it intoa path and landmarks.
A path is made up of trans-fers and relays.
Relays are abstract points initiatingtransfers and may be "covered" by a turn.
Land-marks can be either associated with relays or withtransfers.
More formally, a route is structured intoa list of segments, each segment consisting of a re-lay and of a transfer.
Landmarks are represented aspossible attributes (among others) of these two ele-2 Cf.
Example 2.1300ments.
Having such a prototype for routes, with allelements defined in terms of attribute-value pairs,it is relatively easy to re-construct the route de-scribed by the linguistic input: the reconstructionconsists in recognizing the relevant elements and inassigning values to their attributes.
Using the routemodel, some elements missing in the text can beinferred.
For example, since every route segmentcontains one relay (which may be a turn) and onetransfer, the information concerning the fragment ofthe route expressed by: "tournez k gauche et puisdroite" ("turn to the left and then to the right"),must be completed by adding a transfer between thetwo turns.Apart from models for linguistic and conceptualrepresentations, the rules of transition have to bedefined.
For this purpose, it is necessary to establishrelationships between different linguistic and con-ceptual entities.
For example, the action of the type"progression" (e.g.
"continuer", "aller") correspondsto a transfer and the actions of the type "change ofdirection" (e.g.
"tourner") or "taking a way" (e.g.
"prendre la rue") to a relay (which will coincide witha turn or with the beginning of a way-landmark, e.g.a street, respectively).Another aspect of modeling consists in specifyinggraphic objects corresponding to the entities in theroute model.
For the time being, we decided to dowith simple symbolic elements, without a fine dis-tinction between landmarks.
The graphic symbolshave been created on the basis of the informationaccessible from the context rather than the one con-tained in the "names" of landmarks.
These latterare included in sketches in the form of verbal abels.Once the whole route has been reconstructed atthe conceptuM level, we start to generate the corre-sponding graphic map, like the one here below.0 b&timen~ AOOO panneaux d'informationsdQscenl;@ 4to~"niquets du RER4 Conc lus ionComputer translation of route descriptions intosketches raises some interesting issues.
Firstly, onehas to investigate the relationships between the lin-guistic and the graphic modes, the constraints andpossibilities which appear while generating imagesfrom linguistic descriptions.Secondly, a thorough linguistic analysis of routedescriptions i necessary.
We have used a discoursebased approach and analyze "local" linguistic ele-ments by filtering them through the discourse struc-ture, described at the "global" level.
Our goal isto build a linguistic model for the text type "routedescription".Another interesting problem is the form and thederivation of the conceptual representation f the de-scribed route.
We believe that it cannot be directlyobtained from the linguistic material itself.
Duringthe understanding process, the linguistic meaninghas to be represented before the conceptual repre-sentation can be created.
That is why we need atwo-stage internal representation, based on specificlinguistic and conceptual models.ReferencesM.
Abraham and J-P. Desclds.
1992.
Interaction be-tween lexicon and image: Linguistic specifications ofanimation.
In Proc.
o\] COLING-92, pages 1043-1047,Nantes.E.
Andrd, G. Bosch, G. Herzog, and T. Rist.
1987.
Cop-ing with the intrinsic and the deictic uses of spatialprepositions.
In K. Jorrand and L. Sgurev, editors,Artificial Intelligence II: Methodology, Systems, Appli-cations, pages 375-382.
North-Holland, Amsterdam.E.
Andrd, G. Herzog, and T. Rist.
1988.
On the simul-taneous interpretation of real world image sequencesand their natural anguage description: The systemSOCCER.
In Proc.
o\] the 8th ECAI, pages 449-454,Munich.M.
Arnold and C. Lebrun.
1992.
Utilisation d'unelangue pour la creation de sc~nes architecturales nimage de synthbse.
Exp6rience t r6flexions.
Intellec-tica, 3(15):151-186.M.
Arnold.
1990.
Transcription automatique verbal-image et vice versa.
Contribution ~ une revue de laquestion.
In Proc.
of EuropIA-90, pages 30-37, Paris.A.
Gryl.
1992.
Op6rations cognitives mises en oeuvredans la description d'itin6ralres.
Mdmoire de DEA,Universitd Paris 11, France.K.M.
Kahn.
1979.
Creation of computer animation fromstory descriptions.
A.I.
Technical report 540, M.I.T.Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Cambridge, MA.A.
Yamada, T. Yamamoto, H. Ikeda, T. Nishida, andS.
Doshita.
1992.
Reconstructing spatial image fromnatural language texts.
In Proc.
of COLING-9P, pages1279-1283, Nantes.301
