A Uni form Treatment  of P ragmat ic  Inferences in Simple andComplex Utterances and Sequences of UtterancesDanie l  Marcu  and  Graeme H i rs tDepar tment  of Computer  ScienceUniversity of TorontoToronto, Ontar ioCanada M5S 1A4{marcu, gh}?cs, toronto, eduAbstractDrawing appropriate defeasible infe-rences has been proven to be one ofthe most pervasive puzzles of natu-ral language processing and a recur-rent problem in pragmatics.
This pa-per provides a theoretical framework,called stratified logic, that can ac-commodate defeasible pragmatic infe-rences.
The framework yields an al-gorithm that computes the conversa-tional, conventional, scalar, clausal,and normal state implicatures; andthe presuppositions that are associa-ted with utterances.
The algorithmapplies equally to simple and complexutterances and sequences of utteran-ces.1 Pragmatics and DefeasibilityIt is widely acknowledged that a full account of na-tural language utterances cannot be given in termsof only syntactic or semantic phenomena.
For ex-ample, Hirschberg (1985) has shown that in order tounderstand a scalar implicature, one must analyzethe conversants' beliefs and intentions.
To recognizenormal state implicatures one must consider mutualbeliefs and plans (Green, 1990).
To understand con-versationM implicatures associated with indirect re-plies one must consider discourse xpectations, dis-course plans, and discourse relations (Green, 1992;Green and Carberry, 1994).
Some presuppositionsare inferrable when certain lexical constructs (fac-tives, aspectuals, etc) or syntactic onstructs (cleftand pseudo-cleft sentences) are used.
Despite all thecomplexities that individualize the recognition stagefor each of these inferences, all of them can be de-feated by context, by knowledge, beliefs, or plans ofthe agents that constitute part of the context, or byother pragmatic rules.Defeasibili~y is a notion that is tricky to deal with,and scholars in logics and pragmatics have learnedto circumvent it or live with it.
The first observers ofthe phenomenon preferred to keep defeasibility out-side the mathematical world.
For Frege (1892), Rus-sell (1905), and Quine (1949) "everything exists";therefore, in their logical systems, it is impossibleto formalize the cancellation of the presuppositionthat definite referents exist (Hirst, 1991; Marcu andHirst, 1994).
We can taxonomize previous approa-ches to defea~ible pragmatic nferences into three ca-tegories (we omit here work on defeasibility relatedto linguistic phenomena such as discourse, anaphora,or speech acts).1.
Most linguistic approaches account for the de-feasibility of pragmatic nferences by analyzing themin a context hat consists of all or some of the pre-vious utterances, including the current one.
Con-text (Karttunen, 1974; Kay, 1992), procedural ru-les (Gazdar, 1979; Karttunen and Peters, 1979),lexical and syntactic structure (Weischedel, 1979),intentions (Hirschberg, 1985), or anaphoric ons-traints (Sandt, 1992; Zeevat, 1992) decide what pre-suppositions or implicatures are projected as prag-matic inferences for the utterance that is analyzed.The problem with these approaches i  that they as-sign a dual life to pragmatic inferences: in the initialstage, as members of a simple or complex utterance,they are defeasible.
However, after that utteranceis analyzed, there is no possibility left of cancellingthat inference.
But it is natural to have implicaturesand presuppositions that are inferred and cancelledas a sequence of utterances proceeds: research inconversation repairs (I-Iirst et M., 1994) abounds insuch examples.
We address this issue in more detailin section 3.3.2.
One way of accounting for cancellations thatoccur later in the analyzed text is simply to extendthe boundaries within which pragmatic inferencesare evaluated, i.e., to look ahead a few utterances.Green (1992) assumes that implicatures are connec-ted to discourse ntities and not to utterances, buther approach still does not allow cancellations acrossdiscourse units.3.
Another way of allowing pragmatic inferencesto be cancelled is to assign them the status of de-feasible information.
Mercer (1987) formalizes pre-144suppositions in a logical framework that handles de-faults (Reiter, 1980), but this approach is not tracta-ble and it treats natural disjunction as an exclusive-or and implication as logical equivalence.Computational pproaches fail to account for thecancellation of pragmatic inferences: once presuppo-sitions (Weischedel, 1979) or implicatures (Hirsch-berg, 1985; Green, 1992) are generated, they cannever be cancelled.
We are not aware of any forma-lism or computational pproach that offers a unifiedexplanation for the cancellability of pragmatic infe-rences in general, and of no approach that handlescancellations that occur in sequences of utterances.It is our aim to provide such an approach ere.
Indoing this, we assume the existence, for each typeof pragmatic inference, of a set of necessary conditi-ons that must be true in order for that inference tobe triggered.
Once such a set of conditions is met,the corresponding inference is drawn, but it is as-signed a defeasible status.
It is the role of contextand knowledge of the conversants to "decide" whe-ther that inference will survive or not as a pragma-tic inference of the structure.
We put no boundariesupon the time when such a cancellation can occur,and we offer a unified explanation for pragmatic in-ferences that are inferable when simple utterances,complex utterances, or sequences of utterances areconsidered.We propose a new formalism, called "stratifiedlogic", that correctly handles the pragmatic infe-rences, and we start by giving a very brief intro-duction to the main ideas that underlie it.
We givethe main steps of the algorithm that is defined onthe backbone of stratified logic.
We then show howdifferent classes of pragmatic inferences can be cap-tured using this formalism, and how our algorithmcomputes the expected results for a representativeclass of pragmatic inferences.
The results we reporthere are obtained using an implementation writtenin Common Lisp that uses Screamer (Siskind andMcAllester, 1993), a macro package that providesnondeterministic constructs.2 S t ra t i f ied  log ic2.1 Theoret i ca l  foundat ionsWe can offer here only a brief overview of stratifiedlogic.
The reader is referred to Marcu (1994) for acomprehensive study.
Stratified logic supports onetype of indefeasible information and two types ofdefeasible information, namely, infelicitously defea-sible and felicitously defeasible.
The notion of infe-licitously defeasible information is meant o captureinferences that are anomalous to cancel, as in:(1) * John regrets that Mary came to the partybut she did not come.The notion of felicitously defeasible information ismeant to capture the inferences that can be cancel-led without any abnormality, as in:T d ..L dT '  _k'T"  _L"Felicitously Defea.sible LayerInfelicitously Defeasible LayerUndefeasible LayerFigure 1: The lattice that underlies tratified logic(2) John does not regret that Mary came to theparty because she did not come.The lattice in figure 1 underlies the semantics ofstratified logic.
The lattice depicts the three levels ofstrength that seem to account for the inferences thatpertain to natural anguage semantics and pragma-tics: indefeasible information belongs to the u layer,infelicitously defeasible information belongs to thei layer, and felicitously defeasible information be-longs to the d layer.
Each layer is partitioned accor-ding to its polarity in truth, T ~, T i, T a, and falsity,.L =, .l J ,  .1_ d. The lattice shows a partial order that isdefined over the different levels of truth.
For exam-ple, something that is indefeasibly false, .l_ u, is stron-ger (in a sense to be defined below) than somethingthat is infelicitously defeasibly true, T i, or felici-tously defeasibly false, .L a.
Formally, we say that theu level is stronger than the i level, which is strongerthan the d level: u<i<d.
At the syntactic level, weallow atomic formulas to be labelled according to thesame underlying lattice.
Compound formulas areobtained in the usual way.
This will give us formu-las such as regrets u ( John,  come(Mary ,  party)) ---,cornel(Mary, party)),  or (Vx)('-,bachelorU(x) --~(malea( ) ^  The satisfaction relationis split according to the three levels of truth intou-satisfaction, i-satisfaction, and d-satisfaction:Def in i t ion  2.1 Assume ~r is an St .
valuation suchthat t~ = di E  and assume that St .
maps n-arypredicates p to relations R C 7~ ?
.
.
.
?
79.
For anyatomic formula p=(tl, t2 , .
.
.
, t , ) ,  and any stratifiedvaluation a, where z E {u, i, d} and ti are terms, thez-satisfiability relations are defined as follows:?
a ~u p~(t l , .
.
.
, tn )  i f f (dx , .
.
.
,dn l  E 1~ ~?
i f f(d l , .
.
.
,dn)  E R u UR--ffUR i?
o, ~u pa( tx , .
.
.
, t , )  iff(dz , .
.
.
,  d, )  E R"U'R-?URIU-~URa?
tr ~ ip~( t l , .
.
.
, t ,  ) i f f (d t , .
.
.
,d , )  E R i. cr ~ ip i ( t t , .
.
.
, t , )  i f f (d l , .
.
.
,d , )  E R i?
pd( t l , .
.
.
, t , )  ig(d l , .
.
.
,d , )  E R i U~TUR d?
o" ~ap~(tz , .
.
.
, tn )  i f f (d l , .
.
.
,dn)  E R a?
?
( t l , .
.
.
, t , )  iff (al l , .
.
.
,  d,)  e R d145?
o" ~d pd( t l , .
.
.
, tn  ) iff (di,...,dr,) C= R dDefinition 2.1 extends in a natural way to negatedand compound formulas.
Having a satisfaction de-finition associated with each level of strength provi-des a high degree of flexibility.
The same theory canbe interpreted from a perspective that allows morefreedom (u-satisfaction), or from a perspective thatis tighter and that signals when some defeasible in-formation has been cancelled (i- and d-satisfaction).Possible interpretations of a given set of utteran-ces with respect o a knowledge base are computedusing an extension of the semantic tableau method.This extension has been proved to be both soundand complete (Marcu, 1994).
A partial ordering,<, determines the set of optimistic interpretationsfor a theory.
An interpretation m0 is preferred to,or is more optimistic than, an interpretation ml(m0 < ml)  if it contains more information and thatinformation can be more easily updated in the fu-ture.
That  means that if an interpretation m0 makesan utterance true by assigning to a relation R adefensible status, while another interpretation mlmakes the same utterance true by assigning the samerelation R a stronger status, m0 will be the preferredor optimistic one, because it is as informative as miand it allows more options in the future (R can bedefeated).Pragmatic inferences are triggered by utterances.To differentiate between them and semantic infe-rences, we introduce a new quantifier, V vt, whosesemantics i  defined such that a pragmatic inferenceof the form (VVtg)(al(,7) --* a2(g)) is instantiatedonly for those objects t' from the universe of dis-course that pertain to an utterance having the forma l (~-  Hence, only if the antecedent of a pragma-tic rule has been uttered can that rule be applied.A recta-logical construct uttered applies to the logi-cal translation of utterances.
This theory yields thefollowing definition:Def in i t ion  2.2 Let ~b be a theory described in termsof stratified first-order logic that appropriately for-malizes the semantics of lezical items and the ne-cessary conditions that trigger pragmatic inferences.The semantics of lezical terms is formalized usingthe quantifier V, while the necessary conditions thatpertain to pragmatic inferences are captured usingV trt.
Let uttered(u) be the logical translation of agiven utterance or set of utterances.
We say that ut-terance u pragmatically implicates p if and only if p dor p i is derived using pragmatic inferences in at leastone optimistic model of the theory ~ U uttered(u),and if p is not cancelled by any stronger informa-tion ('.p~,-.pi _.pd) in any optimistic model schemaof the theory.
Symmetrically, one can define whata negative pragmatic inference is.
In both cases,W uttered(u) is u-consistent.2.2 The  a lgor i thmOur algorithm, described in detail by Marcu (1994),takes as input a set of first-order stratified formu-las ?
that represents an adequate knowledge basethat expresses semantic knowledge and the necessaryconditions for triggering pragmatic inferences, andthe translation of an utterance or set of utterancesuttered(u).
The Mgorithm builds the set of all possi-ble interpretations for a given utterance, using a ge-neralization of the semantic tableau technique.
Themodel-ordering relation filters the optimistic inter-pretations.
Among them, the defeasible inferencesthat have been triggered on pragmatic grounds arechecked to see whether or not they are cancelled inany optimistic interpretation.
Those that are notcancelled are labelled as pragmatic inferences for thegiven utterance or set of utterances.3 A set of examplesWe present a set of examples that covers a repre-sentative group of pragmatic inferences.
In contrastwith most other approaches, we provide a consistentmethodology for computing these inferences and fordetermining whether they are cancelled or not forall possible configurations: simple and complex ut-terances and sequences of utterances.3.1 S imple  pragmat ic  in fe rences3.1.1 Lexica l  p ragmat ic  in fe rencesA factive such as the verb regret presupposes itscomplement, but as we have seen, in positive envi-ronments, the presupposition is stronger: it is accep-table to defeat a presupposition triggered in a nega-tive environment (2), but is infelicitous to defeat onethat belongs to a positive environment (1).
There-fore, an appropriate formalization of utterance (3)and the req~fisite pragmatic knowledge will be asshown in (4).
(3) John does not regret that Mary came to theparty.
(4)uttered(-,regrets u (john,come( ,,ry, party)))(VU'=, y, z)(regras (=, come(y,co e i (y, z) )(Vu'=, y, z)( regret," (=, come(y, z)) - *corned(y, z) )The stratified semantic tableau that corresponds totheory (4) is given in figure 2.
The tableau yieldstwo model schemata (see figure 3); in both of them,it is defeasibly inferred that Mary came to the party.The model-ordering relation < establishes m0 as theoptimistic model for the theory because it containsas much information as ml and is easier to defeat.Model m0 explains why Mary came to the party is apresupposition for utterance (3).146"~regrets(john, come(mary, party))(Vx, y, z)(-~regrets(x, come(y, z) ) ---* corned(y, z) )(Vx, y, z)(regrets(x, come(y, z)) --* comei(y, z))I-.regrets(john, come(mary, party)) - -  corned(mary, party)regrets(john, come(mary,party)) --* comei(mary, party)regrets(john, come(mary, party)) corned(mary, party)u-closed-.regrets(john, come(mary, party)) come i(mary, party)m_0 mL1Figure 2: Stratified tableau for John does not regret that Mary came to the party.Schema # Indefeasible Infelicitouslydefeasible",regrets ~ (john, come(mary, party)-.regTets ~(joh., come(mary, party)momlcome ~ ( mary, party)Felicitouslydefeasiblecorned(mary, party)cornea(mary, party)Figure 3: Model schemata for John does not regret that Mary came to the party.Schema # Indefeasiblemo went"( some( boys ), theatre)-.went"( all( boys ), theatre)Infelicitously Felicitouslydefeasible de feasible-',wentd( most( boys ), theatre)-.wentd( many( boys ), theatre)-,wentd(all(boys), theatre)Figure 4: Model schema for John says that some of thc boys went to the theatre.Schema # Indefeasible In\]elicitously Felicitouslyde\]easible de feasiblemo we,,t"( some(boy,), theatre),oe,,t" (most( boys ), theatre)went~(many(boys), theatre)went~(all(boys), theatre)d ".went (most(boys),theatre)d -.went (many(boys), theatre)-~wentd(all(boys), theatre)Figure 5: Model schema for John says that some of the boys went to the theatre.
In fact all of them went tothe theatre.1473.1.2 Scalar  imp l i ca turesConsider utterance (5), and its implicatu-res  (6).
(5) John says that some of the boys went to thetheatre.
(6) Not {many/most/al l} of the boys went to thetheatre.An appropriate formalization is given in (7), wherethe second formula captures the defeasible scalar im-plicatures and the third formula reflects the relevantsemantic information for all.
(r)uttered(went(some(boys), theatre))went" (some(boys), theatre) ---*(-~wentd(many(boys), theatre)A",wentd(most(boys), theatre)^-~wentd(aii(boys), theatre))went" (all(boys), theatre)(went" (most(boys), theatre)Awent" (many(boys), theatre)^went"( some(boys), theatre) )The theory provides one optimistic model schema(figure 4) that reflects the expected pragmatic in-ferences, i.e., (Not most/Not many/Not all) of theboys went to the theatre.3.1.3 S imple  cance l la t ionAssume now, that after a moment of thought, thesame person utters:(8) John says that some of the boys went to thetheatre.
In fact all of them went to the thea-tre.By adding the extra utterance to the initialtheory (7), uttered(went(ail(boys),theatre)), onewould obtain one optimistic model schema in whichthe conventional implicatures have been cancelled(see figure 5).3.2 Complex  ut terancesThe Achilles heel for most theories of presuppositionhas been their vulnerability to the projection pro-blem.
Our solution for the projection problem doesnot differ from a solution for individual utterances.Consider the following utterances and some of theirassociated presuppositions (11) (the symbol t> pre-cedes an inference drawn on pragmatic grounds):(9) Either Chris is not a bachelor or he regretsthat Mary came to the party.
(10) Chris is a bachelor or a spinster.
(11) 1> Chris is a (male) adult.Chris is not a bachelor presupposes that Chris is amale adult; Chris regrets that Mary came to the partypresupposes that Mary came to the party.
There isno contradiction between these two presuppositions,so one would expect a conversant to infer both ofthem if she hears an utterance such as (9).
Howe-ver, when one examines utterance (10), one observesimmediately that there is a contradiction betweenthe presuppositions carried by the individual com-ponents.
Being a bachelor presupposes that Chrisis a male, while being a spinster presupposes thatChris is a female.
Normally, we would expect a con-versant o notice this contradiction and to drop eachof these elementary presuppositions when she inter-prets (10).We now study how stratified logic and the model-ordering relation capture one's intuitions.3.2.1 Or- -  non-cance l la t ionAn appropriate formalization for utterance (9)and the necessary semantic and pragmatic know-ledge is given in (12).
(12)l uttered(-~bachelor(Chris)Vregret(Chris, come(Mary, party)))(- bachelor" (Chris)Vregret" (Chris, come(Mary, party)))-~(-~bachelord( Chris)Aregret d( chris, come(Mary, party)))--,male(Mary)(Vx )( bachelor" (x ) .--+I male"(x) A adultU(z) A "-,married"(x))(VUtx)(-4bachelorU(=) --~ marriedi(x))(vUt x )(-~bachelor"( x ) --~ adulta( x) )(vu'x)(--,bachelorU(x) .-, maled(=))y, z)(- regret"(=, come(y, z) )cored(y, ,))(vv'=, y, z )( regret" ( =, ome(y, ) ) -come i (y, z ) )Besides the translation of the utterance, the initialtheory contains a formalization of the defeasible im-plicature that natural disjunction is used as an exclu-sive or, the knowledge that Mary is not a name formales, the lexical semantics for the word bachelor,and the lexical pragmatics for bachelor and regret.The stratified semantic tableau generates 12 modelschemata.
Only four of them are kept as optimisticmodels for the utterance.
The models yield Marycame to the party; Chris is a male; and Chris is anadult as pragmatic inferences of utterance (9).3.2.2 Or -  cance l la t ionConsider now utterance (10).
The stratified se-mantic tableau that corresponds to its logical theoryyields 16 models, but only Chris is an adult satisfiesdefinition 2.2 and is projected as presupposition forthe utterance.3.3 P ragmat ic  in ferences  in sequences  ofu t te rancesWe have already mentioned that speech repairs con-stitute a good benchmark for studying the genera-148tion and cancellation of pragmatic inferences alongsequences of utterances (McRoy and Hirst, 1993).Suppose, for example, that Jane has two friends - -John Smith and John Pevler - -  and that her room-mate Mary has met only John Smith, a married fel-low.
Assume now that Jane has a conversation withMary in which Jane mentions only the name Johnbecause she is not aware that Mary does not knowabout the other John, who is a five-year-old boy.
Inthis context, it is natural for Mary to become confu-sed and to come to wrong conclusions.
For example,Mary may reply that John is not a bachelor.
Alt-hough this is true for both Johns, it is more appro-priate for the married fellow than for the five-year-old boy.
Mary knows that John Smith is a marriedmale, so the utterance makes sense for her.
At thispoint Jane realizes that Mary misunderstands her:all the time Jane was talking about John Pevler, thefive-year-old boy.
The utterances in (13) constitutea possible answer that Jane may give to Mary inorder to clarify the problem.
(13) a.
No, John is not a bachelor.b.
I regret that you have misunderstood me.c.
He is only five years old.The first utterance in the sequence presuppo-ses (14).
(14) I> John is a male adult.Utterance (13)b warns Mary that is very likely shemisunderstood a previous utterance (15).
The war-ning is conveyed by implicature.
(15) !> The hearer misunderstood the speaker.At this point, the hearer, Mary, starts to believethat one of her previous utterances has been elabo-rated on a false assumption, but she does not knowwhich one.
The third utterance (13)c comes to cla-rify the issue.
It explicitly expresses that John is notan adult.
Therefore, it cancels the early presupposi-tion (14):(16) ~ John is an adult.Note that there is a gap of one statement betweenthe generation and the cancellation of this presup-position.
The behavior described is mirrored bothby our theory and our program.3.4 Conversat iona l  imp l i ca tures  in ind i rec trep l iesThe same methodology can be applied to mode-ling conversational impIicatures in indirect replies(Green, 1992).
Green's algorithm makes use of dis-course expectations, discourse plans, and discourserelations.
The following dialog is considered (Green,1992, p. 68):(17) Q: Did you go shopping?A: a.
My car's not running.b.
The timing belt broke.c.
(So) I had to take the bus.Answer (17) conveys a "yes", but a reply consistingonly of (17)a would implicate a "no".
As Green no-tices, in previous models of implicatures (Gazdar,1979; Hirschberg, 1985), processing (17)a will blockthe implicature generated by (17)c. Green solves theproblem by extending the boundaries of the analysisto discourse units.
Our approach does not exhibitthese constraints.
As in the previous example, theone dealing with a sequence of utterances, we obtaina different interpretation after each step.
When thequestion is asked, there is no conversational impli-cature.
Answer (17)a makes the necessary conditi-ons for implicating "no" true, and the implication iscomputed.
Answer (17)b reinforces a previous con-dition.
Answer (17)c makes the preconditions forimplicating a "no" false, and the preconditions forimplicating a "yes" true.
Therefore, the implicatureat the end of the dialogue is that the conversant whoanswered went shopping.4 Conclus ionsUnlike most research in pragmatics that focuses oncertain types of presuppositions or implicatures, weprovide a global framework in which one can ex-press all these types of pragmatic inferences.
Eachpragmatic inference is associated with a set of ne-cessary conditions that may trigger that inference.When such a set of conditions is met, that infe-rence is drawn, but it is assigned a defeasible status.An extended efinition of satisfaction and a notionof "optimism" with respect to different interpreta-tions yield the preferred interpretations for an ut-terance or sequences of utterances.
These interpre-tations contain the pragmatic inferences that havenot been cancelled by context or conversant's know-ledge, plans, or intentions.
The formalism yields analgorithm that has been implemented in CommonLisp with Screamer.
This algorithm computes uni-formly pragmatic inferences that are associated withsimple and complex utterances and sequences of ut-terances, and allows cancellations of pragmatic infe-rences to occur at any time in the discourse.AcknowledgementsThis research was supported in part by a grantfrom the Natural Sciences and Engineering ResearchCouncil of Canada.149ReferencesG.
Frege.
1892.
0bet sinn und bedeutung.
Zeit-schrift fiir Philos.
und Philos.
Kritik, 100:373-394.reprinted as: On Sense and Nominatum, In FeiglH.
and Sellars W., editors, Readings in Philoso-phical Analysis, pages 85-102, Appleton-Century-Croft, New York, 1947.G.J.M.
Gazdar.
1979.
Pragmatics: Implicature,Presupposition, and Logical Form.
AcademicPress.N.
Green and S. Carberry.
1994.
A hybrid reasoningmodel for indirect answers.
In Proceedings 3PndAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 58-65.N.
Green.
1990.
Normal state implicature.
In Pro-ceedings 28th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 89-96.N.
Green.
1992.
Conversational implicatures in in-direct replies.
In Proceedings 30th Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 64-71.J.B.
Hirschberg.
1985.
A theory of scalar impli-cature.
Technical Report MS-CIS-85-56, Depart-ment of Computer and Information Science, Uni-versity of Pennsylvania.
Also published by Gar-land Publishing Inc., 1991.G.
Hirst, S. McRoy, P. Heeman, P. Edmonds, andD.
Horton.
1994.
Repairing conversational mi-sunderstandings and non-understandings.
SpeechCommunication, 15:213-229.G.
Hirst.
1991.
Existence assumptions in knowledgerepresentation.
Artificial Intelligence, 49:199-242.L.
Karttunen and S. Peters.
1979.
Conventional im-plicature.
In Oh C.K.
and Dinneen D.A, editors,Syntaz and Semantics, Presupposition, volume 11,pages 1-56.
Academic Press.L.
Karttunen.
1974.
Presupposition and linguisticcontext.
Theoretical Linguistics, 1:3-44.P.
Kay.
1992.
The inheritance of presuppositions.Linguistics ?4 Philosophy, 15:333-379.D.
Marcu.
1994.
A formalism and an algorithmfor computing pragmatic inferences and detectinginfelicities.
Master's thesis, Dept.
of ComputerScience, University of Toronto, September.
Alsopublished as Technical Report CSRI-309, Com-puter Systems Research Institute, University ofToronto.D.
Marcu and G. Hirst.
1994.
An implemented for-malism for computing linguistic presuppositionsand existential commitments.
In H. Bunt, R. Mus-kens, and G. Rentier, editors, International Work-shop on Computational Semantics, pages 141-150,December.S.
McRoy and G. Hirst.
1993.
Abductive expla-nation of dialogue misunderstandings.
In Pro-ceedings, 6th Conference of the European Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 277-286, April.R.E.
Mercer.
1987.
A Default Logic Approach to theDerivation of Natural Language Presuppositions.Ph.D.
thesis, Department of Computer Science,University of British Columbia.W.V.O.
Quine.
1949.
Designation and existence.In Feigl H. and Sellars W., editors, Readings inPhilosophical Analysis, pages 44-51.
Appleton-Century-Croft, New York.R.
Reiter.
1980.
A logic for default reasoning.
Ar-tificial Intelligence, 13:81-132.B.
Russell.
1905.
On denoting.
Mind n.s., 14:479-493. reprinted in: Feigl H. and Sellars W. editors,Readings in Philosophical Analysis, pages 103-115.
Applcton-Century-Croft, New York, 1949.R.A.
van der Sandt.
1992.
Presupposition projec-tion as anaphora resolution.
Journal of Seman-tics, 9:333-377.J.M.
Siskind and D.A.
McAllester.
1993.
Screamer:A portable efficient implementation f nondeter-ministic Common Lisp.
Technical Report IRCS-93-03, University of Pennsylvania, Institute forResearch in Cognitive Science, July 1.R.M.
Weischedel.
1979.
A new semantic ompu-tation while parsing: Presupposition and entail-ment.
In Oh C.K.
and Dinneen D.A, editors, Syn-ta~ and Semantics, Presupposition, volume 11, pa-ges 155-182.
Academic Press.H.
Zeevat.
1992.
Presupposition and accommoda-tion in update semantics.
Journal of Semantics,9:379-412.150
