Aspect and Discourse Structure:Is a Neutral Viewpoint Required?
*Frank  Schi lderCentre for Cognitive Science2 Bucc leuch  P laceEd inburgh  EH8 9LW,  Scot land ,  U .K .In ternet :  sch i lder@cogsc?,  ed .
ac .ukAbst ractWe apply Smith's theory of aspect (1991)to German - a language without any as-pectual markers.
In particular, we tryto shed more light on the effects aspectcan have on d iscourse  s t ructure  andshow how English and German behave dif-ferently in this respect.
We furthermoredescribe how Smith's notion of a neutralv iewpo int  can be helpful for the anal-ysis of discourse in German.
It turnedout that proposals claiming that the Ger-man Preterite covers the progressive aswell as the simple aspect can not suffi-ciently explain the data presented in thispaper (B~iuerle, 1988).
Finally we givea s l tuat lon - theoret i c  approach to for-malize Smith's intuitions following Glas-bey (1994) incorporating Allen's interval-calculus (Allen, 1984).1 V iewpo int  and  S i tuat ion  AspectSmith (1991) presents two terms which are assignedto two distinct phenomena in language: v iewpo intand s i tuat ion  aspect .
This two-level theory givesan explanation for the difference between aspectualinformation understood as a view on a situation andtemporal features of a situation.
The former can begained after applying a certain viewpoint chosen bythe speaker and the latter one is stored in the lexicalentry of a lexeme.l" The author gratefully acknowledges the helpfulcomments of Sheila Glasbey, Lex Holt and the threeanonymous reviewers of this paper.
This research wassupported by a PhD-scholarship HSPII/AUFE awardedby the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD).1Besides the situation aspect described by the seman-tic entry of the verb many other sentential constituents(e.g.
object or subject NPs) may have an influence on it(Krif~, 1992).Situation Aspects Smith introduces three so-called "conceptual features" of situation aspectswhich have binary values \[-4-\], namely stative, dura-tire and telic.
Five different situation aspects haveemerged which are distinguished using these featuresand certain temporal schemata?
Examples:- Sam owned three peach orchards.
(State)- Lily swam in the pond.
(Activity)- Mrs Ramsey wrote a letter.
(Accomplishment)- Lily knocked at the door.
(Semelfactive)- Mr Ramsey reached the lighthouse.
(Achievement)V iewpo ints  Smith postulates three differentviewpoints.
Schematically she uses an idealised timeline where the initial and finishing points of a situ-ation are indicated by I and F respectively.
Theduration of the situation can be drawn in two differ-ent ways: as an unstructured ( - - )  and a structured(...) phase which has internal stages.
The view-point is understood in this representation as a focuson parts or on the whole situation ( / / / )  (figure 1).a) i .
.
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I .
.
Fb) I FI I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Ic) I./ / /Figure 1: The a) imperfective b) perfective and c)neutral viewpointTwo viewpoints correspond mainly to the well-known opposition perfective/imperfective.
However,additionally Smith assumes a so-called neutral view-point which contains the initial point and at leastone internal stage.Aspectually vague sentences which provide eitheran open or a closed reading back up Smith's consid-ZSee Smith (1991) for a detailed iscussion.326erations (Smith, 1991:120).
3However, she restricts her analysis to single sen-tences and neglects the effects viewpoints can havein a discourse.
We will therefore focus on this issuein the next section.2 D iscourse  S t ructureWe investigate here which viewpoint is appropriatefor the German Preterite.
B~uerle (1988:131), forinstance, claims that this tense in German is am-biguous w.r.t, the perfective/imperfective view on asituation and gives the following evidence for it:(1) a.
Der Angeklagte fuhr nach Hause.
Dorttrank er ein Glas Trollinger.The defendant drove home.
There hedrank a glass of Trollinger.b.
Der Angeklagte fuhr nach Hause.
AmLustnauer Tor hatte er einen schwerenUnfall und musste ins Krankenhauseingeliefert werden.The defendant was driving home.
At theLustnauer tower he had a serious accidentand had to be admitted to the hospital.In (la) the VP fuhr nach Hause refers to a com-pleted event and therefore contains an end point.
In(lb) this end point is denied by the second sentence.Note that the English translation of (lb) is thereforeonly correct if an imperfective view is used.This data shows that the use of the Preterite inGerman does not commit the speaker to saying any-thing about the end point.
Every inference regardingthe ending of a situation is due to the context or ourworld knowledge.It may be concluded from (1) that we cannot as-sume a perfective viewpoint, because this view in-cludes the end point of a situation.
The follow-ing discourse will furthermore show that also theimperfective view is not applicable to the GermanPreterite.It is commonly supposed that the imperfectiveviewpoint which refers to the middle of a situationomitting the initial as well as the final point can beused for describing a background within a discourse(cf.
Smith, 1991:130):(2) The defendant had an accident.
He wasdriving home (at this time).3FoUowing Smith (1991) we applied two tests to Ger-man data regarding the temporal properties of the endpoint of a situation which are discussed in Schilder(1995).A direct German translation, however, expresses twosubsequent events.
At first the defendant had anaccident and then he drove home:(3) Der Angeklagte hatte einen Unfall.
Er fuhrnach Hause (?
?zu der Zeit).Adding the PP zu der Zeit ('at this time') thesentence functions as a background for the eventdescribed by the first sentence, but this discoursesounds awkward and the continuation with a statein (4) is clearly preferred.
4(4) Er war auf dem Weg nach Hause.Discourse (3) shows that for the German Preteritethe initial point is focussed by the viewpoint.
Thisobservation proves therefore that this tense is notambiguous w.r.t the progressive and the simple as-pect as B~uerle (1988) claims.To sum up, these two discourses can be seento show that the German aspect system for thePreterite offers only a neutral view on every situ-ation.Moreover, this data disproves B/~uerle's explana-tion of (1), clarifies Smith's definition of a viewpointand motivates the need for a neutral viewpoint inGerman.It is obviously a shortcoming of Smith's descrip-tion to define the viewpoint merely as a focus onparts or on the whole situation.
It emerged fromthe discourse xamples that a crucial function of theviewpoint is the commitment the speaker gives asto whether the end point has been reached or not.In English, the perfective view sets the end point 5and no cancellation is allowed afterwards.
A neu-tral view on a situation gives only a confirmation ofthe initial point.
It leaves open whether the end hasbeen reached or not.
Only the temporal knowledgederived from the situation aspect can provide furtherinformation which, however, may be overridden bythe context.3 A S i tuat ion - theoret i cFormal i sa t ionWe follow Glasbey (1994:15) in her criticism ofSmith's formalisation within D iscourse  Represen-ta t ion  Theory  (DRT) (Kamp & Reyle, 1993).64Note that the PP at this time is not required for theEnglish discourse to be fully understood.5Provided that the situation aspect provides an in-herent end point which is not the case for states.6A new account presented by Asher (1993) to de-scribe types of eventualities i currently being investi-gated.
Note that the standard definition of DRT doesnot provide any description of types or other abstractentities.327Unlike DRT, STDRT (Cooper, 1992) has the no-tion of an event  type  which can be used for the in-formation given by the situation aspect.
Note thatthis event ype does not have to be instantiated witha situation of this type; it will therefore not be in-troduced like a d iscourse  re ferent  in a d iscourserepresentat ion  s t ructure .
7s_LJfahren(X,Y,T)a lnarned(X,'Der Angeklagte')named(Y,'nach Hause')s lACCOMPLISHMENTFigure 2: The complete vent type ?The first sentence of (1) refers to a situation s, ,where sn is of a type ?.
Type ?
can be seen asthe part of an episode of the complete vent type?
which is focussed by the neutral viewpoint.
Wehave therefore to define the initial point and the firststage.<3i,itial ~ iff:Ve, e'\[\[e : ^ e' : e <3 e 'A \[Ve"\[e" e'_ e"\] t {BEFORE, MEETS} t"\]\]O~ <3first_stage ~ iff:Ve, e',e"\[\[e : a A e' : j3 A e" : 7 A 7 <3initial fl\] "+e <3 e' A t" {MEETS} t\]t, t ~, t" are the occurrence times of e, e ~ and e H re-spectively, <3 is the PART-OF relation between sit-uations and BEFORE and MEETS are Allen's interval-relations as defined in Allen (1984).4 Conc lus ionWe showed that Smith's notion of a neutral view-point is crucial for German.
In particular, we in-vestigated the effects this viewpoint has on a dis-course level and compared it with English.
It maybe concluded from this analysis that discourse struc-ture differs depending on the language.
A discoursegrammar developed for English cannot easily be ap-plied to German.
This cross-linguistic account givesprominence to the underlying concepts instead of fo-cussing only on the surface structure which is unal-terably bound to the peculiarity of a single objectlanguage.7Figure 2 shows a simplified representation f the ac-complishment event ype.
No account will be given of thetreatment of PPs like nach Hause for the time being.In our analysis for German, we therefore high-lighted the following two properties which can bestipulated regarding the neutral viewpoint:* The end point of a situation is beyond the focusof this viewpoint.
Default information given bythe situation aspect may be overridden by thecontext.
8?
The neutral viewpoint contains the initial pointof the situation.
Backgrounding - a typicalfunction of the imperfective view where the ini-tim point is not included - is therefore not ap-plicable for this viewpoint.Furthermore, the proposed formalisation providesan account which can handle the discussed phenom-ena within an implementation; this is ongoing work.Re ferencesJames Allen.
1984.
Towards a general theory ofaction and time.
Artificial Intelligence, 23:123-154.Nicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to abstract Ob-jects in Discourse, Kluwer, Dordrecht.Rainer B~iuerle.
1988.
Ereignisse undRepr~entationen.
L ILOG-REPORT 43, IBMDeutschland, Stuttgart.Robin Cooper.
1992.
Discourse representation isituation theory.
Reading material for the 4 th Eu-ropean Summer School in Logic, Language and In-formation, University of Essex, Colchester, England,August.Sheila Glasbey.
1994.
Progressives, events andstates.
In Paul Dekker and Martin Stokhof, ed-itors, Pro(:.
of the 9 th Amsterdam Colloquium.ILLC/Department of Philosophy, University of Am-sterdam.Hans Kamp and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
From Dis-course to Logic: Introduction to Modeltheoretic Se-mantics of Natural Language.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Manfred Krifka.
1992.
Thematic Relations asLinks between Nominal Reference and TemporalConstitution.
In Ivan A.
Sag and Anna Szabolcsi,editors, Lexical Matters.
CSLI.Frank Schilder.
1995.
A neutral view on German.To appear in Proc.
of the 5 th International ToulouseWorkshop on Time, Space and Movement, Toulouse.IRIT.Carlota S. Smith.
1991.
The Parameter of Aspect.Kluwer, Dordrecht.8 A formalisation of this intuition by a non-monotonicreasoning mechanism is described in Schilder (1995).328
