An Appl icat ion of WordNet to Preposit ional  AttachmentSanda M. Harabag iuUn ivers i ty  of Southern  Cal i forn iaDepar tment  of E lectr ica l  Eng ineer ing -SystemsLos Angeles,  CA 90089-2562harabag i~usc .eduAbst rac tThis paper presents a method for wordsense disambiguation a d coherence under-standing of prepositional relations.
Themethod relies on information provided byWordNet 1.5.
We first classify preposi-tional attachments according to semanticequivalence of phrase heads and then ap-ply inferential heuristics for understandingthe validity of prepositional structures.1 P rob lem descr ip t ionIn this paper, we address the problem of disam-biguation and understanding prepositional attach-ment.
The arguments of prepositional relations areautomatically categorized into semantically equiva-lent classes of WordNet (Miller and Teibel, 1991)concepts.
Then by applying inferential heuristicson each class, we establish semantic onnections be-tween arguments that explain the validity of thatprepositional structure.
The method uses informa-tion provided by WordNet, such as semantic rela-tions and textual glosses.We have collected prepositional relations from theWall Street Journal tagged articles of the PENNTREEBANK.
Here, we focus on preposition of, themost frequently used preposition in the corpus.2 C lasses  o f  p repos i t iona l  re la t ionsSince most of the prepositional attachments obeythe principle of locality (Wertmer, 1991), we consid-ered only the case of prepositional phrases precededby noun or verb phrases.
We scanned the corpusand filtered the phrase heads to create C, an ad hoccollection of sequences < noun prep noun > and <verb prep noun >.
This collection is divided intoclasses of prepositional relations, using the followingdefinitions:Definition 1: Two prepositional structures < noun1prep noun2 > and < noun3 prep noun4 > belongto the same class if one of the following conditionsholds:?
noun1, and noun2 are hypernym/hyponym ofnoun3, and noun4 respectively, or?
noun1, and noun2 have a common hyper-nym/hyponym and with noun3, and noun4, re-spectively.A particular case is when noun1 (noun2) andnoun3 (noun4) are synonyms.Definition 2: Two prepositional structures <:verb1 prep noun1 > and < verb2 prep noun2 > be-long to the same class if one of the following condi-tions holds:?
verb1, and noun1 are hypernym/hyponym ofverb2, and noun2, respectively or?
verb1, and noun1 have a common hyper-nym/hyponym with verb2, and noun2, respec-tively.A particular case is when the verbs or the nounsare synonyms, respectively.The main benefit and reason for grouping prepo-sitional relations into classes is the possibility todisambiguate the words surrounding prepositions.When classes of prepositional structures are iden-tified, two possibilities arise:1.
A class contains at least two prepositional se-quences from the collection g. In this case, allsequences in that class are disambiguated, be-cause for each pair (< nouni prep nounj  > ,< nounk prep nounq >), nouni and nounk (andnounj  and nounq respectively) are in one of thefollowing relations:(a) they are synonyms, and point to one synsetthat is their meaning.
(b) they belong to synsets that are in hyper-nym/hyponym relation.
(c) they belong to synsets that have a commonhypernym/hyponym.In cases (a), (b) and (c), since words are as-sociated to synsets, their meanings are disam-biguated.
The same applies for classes of prepo-sitional sequences < verb prep noun >.360acquis i t ion of companySense 1 = { acquisition, acquiring, getting }GLOSS: "the act of contracting or assuming.
"HR1or ~possess ion  of something""-.
HR3{ buy, purchase, take } "~' .GLOSS: "obtain by purchase~by means of a financial transaction"ISA{ take over, buy out },?
, GLOSS: "take over ownership of;HR2 I o~ corporations ~compar~es I" ob jeoC o fSense 1 = {company }ISA{ business, concern, business concern }ISA/ ~  { corporation }Figure 1: WordNet application of prepositional selection constraints2.
A class contains only one sequence.
We dis-regard these classes from our study, since inthis class it is not possible to disambiguate hewords.The collection C has 9511 < noun of noun > se-quences, out of which 2158 have at least one of thenouns tagged as a proper noun.
602 of these se-quences have both nouns tagged as proper nouns.Due to the fact that WordNet's coverage of propernouns is rather sparse, only 34% of these sequenceswere disambiguated.
Successful cases are < Houseof Representatives >, < University of Pennsylvania> or < Museum of Art >.
Sequences that couldn'tbe disambiguated comprise < Aerospaciale of France> or < Kennedy of Massachusetts >.
A small dis-ambiguation rate of 28% covers the rest of the 1566sequences relating a proper noun to a common oun.A successful disambiguation occurred for < hun-dreds of Californians > or < corporation of Vancou-ver >.
Sequences like < aftermath of Iran-Contra> or < acquisition of Merryl Linch > weren't dis-ambiguated.
The results of the disambiguation ofthe rest of 7353 sequences comprising only commonnouns are more encouraging.
A total of 473 classeswere devised, out of which 131 had only one ele-ment, yielding a disambiguation rate of 72.3%.
Thenumber of elements in a class varies from 2 to 68.Now that we found disambiguated classes ofprepositional structures, we provide some heuristicsto better understand why the prepositional relationsare valid.
These heuristics are possible inferencesperformed on WordNet.3 Se lec t iona l  Heur i s t i cs  on  WordNetIn this section we focus on semantic onnections be-tween the words of prepositional structures.
Con-361sider for example acqu is i t ion  of company.
Fig-ure 1 illustrates ome of the relevant semantic on-nections that can be drawn from WordNet when an-alyzing this prepositional structure.We note that noun acqu is i t ion  is semanticallyconnected to the verb acquire,  which is related tothe concept { buy, purchase,  take}, a hypernymof { take over,  buy out}.
Typical objects for buyout are corporat ions  and companies, both hyper-nyms of concern.
Thus, at a more abstract level, weunderstand acquisition of company as an actionperformed on a typical object.
Such relations holdfor an entire class of prepositional structures.What we want is to have a mechanism that ex-tracts the essence of such semantic onnections, andbe able to provide the inference that the elements ofthis class are all sequences of < nounl prep nounj >,with nounj always an object of the action describedby nounl.Our approach to establish semantic paths is basedon inferential heuristics on WordNet.
Using sev-eral heuristics one can find common properties ofa prepositional class.
The classification proceduredisambiguates both nouns as follows: the wordacquisition has four senses in WordNet , but it isfound in its synset number 1.
The word companyappears in its synset number 1.
The gloss ofacqu is i t ion  satisfies the prerequisite of HRI:Heur i s t i c  Rule  1 (HR1)  If the textual gloss ofa noun concept begins with the expression the actof followed by the gerund of a verb, then the respec-tive noun concept describes an action represented bythe verb from the gloss.This heuristic applies 831 times in WordNet,showing that nouns like accomplishment, dispatchor subs id i za t ion  describe actions.I\] Nr.crt.
I Features for < N1 > of < N2 > Example II1 N2 is the object of the action described by N1 acquisition of company2 N2 is the agent of the action described by N1 approval of authorities3 N1 is the agent of the action with object N2 author of paper4 N1 is the agent of the action with purpose the action described by N2 activists of sup'port5 N1 is the objcct of an action whosc agcnt is N2 record of athlete6 N2 describes the action with the theme N1 allegations of fraud7 N1 is the location of the activity described by N2 place of business8 N1 describes an action occurring at the time described by N2 acquisition of 19959 N1 is the consequence of a phenomenon described by N2 impact of earthquake10 N1 is the output of an action described by N2 result of studyTable h Distribution of prepositions in the Wall Street Journal articles from PENN TreebankThus acqu is i t ion  is a description of any of theverbal expressions cont ract  possess ion ,  assumepossession and acquire possession.The role of company is recovered using anotherheuristic:Heur i s t i c  Ru le  2 (HR2)  The gloss of a verb maycontain multiple textual explanations for that con-cept, which are separated by semicolons.
If one suchexplanation takes one of the forms:?
of noun1?
of nounl and noun 2?
o f  nOttTt 1 o r  no l tn  2then nounz and noun2 respectively are objects ofthat verb.Heuristic HR2 applies 134 times in WordNet,providing objects for such verbs as genera l i ze ,exfoliate or laicize.The noun company is recognized as an objectof the synset {take over ,  buy out}, and so iscorporat ion .
Both of them are hyponyms of{business, concern, business concern}, whichfills in the object role of {bus iness ,  concern,business concern}.
Because of that, bothcompany and corporation from the gloss of {takeover, buy out} are disambiguated and point totheir first corresponding synsets.
Due to the in-heritance property, company is an object of any hy-pernyms of {take over, buy out}.
One such hy-pernym, {buy, purchase, take} also meets the re-quirements of HR3:Heur i s t i c  Ru le  3 (HR3)  If a verb concept hasanother verb at the beginning of its gloss, then thatverb describes the same action, but in a more specificcontext.Therefore, acqu i re  is a definition of {buy,purchase, take},  that has company as an objectand involves a financial transaction.
These threeheuristics operate throughout all the sequences ofthe class comprising < acquisilion of company >, <addition of business >, < formalion of group > or< beginning of service >We conclude that for this class of prepositionalrelations, noun2 is the object of the action describedby noun1.4 A case  s tudyTable 1 illustrates the semantic relations observedin WordNet for some of the classes of prepositionalrelations with preposition of, when both argumentsare nouns.
We applied a number of 28 heuristics on45 disambiguated classes.5 ConclusionsThis paper proposes a method of extracting and val-idating semantic relations for prepositional attach-ment.
The method is appealing because it usesWordNet (which is publicly available and applicableto broad English) and is scalable.
A plausible xpla-nation of prepositional attachment may be providedand the lexical disambiguation of the phrase headsis possible.
The method may be improved by us-ing additional attachment locations as provided bythe transformations proposed in (Brill and Resnik,1994).ReferencesEric Brill and Philip Resnik.
1994.
A Rule-BasedApproach to Prepositional Phrase AttachmentDisambiguation.
In Proceedings of COLING-9~.George Miller and Daniel Teibel.
1991.
A proposalfor lexical disambiguation.
In Proceedings of theDARPA Speech and Nalural Language Workshop,pages 395-399, Washington, D.C.Philip Resnik.
1995.
Disambiguating NounGrouping with Respect to WordNet Senses.In Proceedings of the Third Workshop onVery Large Corpora, pages 54-68, MIT, Cam-bridge,Massachusets, June.Stefan Wermter.
1991.
Integration of Semanticand Syntactic Constraints for Structural NounPhrase Disambiguation.
In Proceedings of IJCAI-91,pages 1486-1491.362
