Functional CenteringMichael Strube & Udo HahnFreiburg University(~\ [}  Computational Linguistics LabEuropaplatz 1, D-79085 Freiburg, Germany{strube, hahn}@coling, uni-freiburg, deAbstractBased on empirical evidence from a freeword order language (German) we propose afundamental revision of the principles guid-ing the ordering of discourse ntities in theforward-looking centers within the center-ing model.
We claim that grammatical rolecriteria should be replaced by indicatorsof the functional information structure ofthe utterances, i.e., the distinction betweencontext-bound and unbound iscourse le-ments.
This claim is backed up by an empir-ical evaluation of functional centering.1 IntroductionThe centering model has evolved as a methodology forthe description and explanation of the local coherenceof discourse (Grosz et al, 1983; 1995), with focus onpronominal and nominal anaphora.
Though severalcross-linguistic studies have been carded out (cf.
theenumeration i  Grosz et al (1995)), an almost canon-ical scheme for the ordering on the forward-lookingcenters has emerged, one that reflects well-known reg-ularities of fixed word order languages such as En-glish.
With the exception of Walker et al (1990;1994) for Japanese, Turan (1995) for Turkish, Ram-bow (1993) for German and Cote (1996) for English,only grammatical roles are considered and the (par-tial) ordering in Table 11 is taken for granted.I subject > dir-object > indir-object I> complement(s) > adjunct(s)Table 1: Grammatical Role Based Ranking on the C!~Table 1contains the most explicit ordering of grammat-ical roles we are aware of and has been taken from Bren-nan et al (1987).
Often, the distinction between comple-ments and adjuncts i collapsed into the category "others"(c.f., e.g., Grosz et al (1995)).Our work on the resolution of anaphora (Strube &Hahn, 1995; Hahn & Strube, 1996) and textual el-lipsis (Hahn et al, 1996), however, is based on Ger-man, a free word order language, in which grammat-ical role information is far less predictive for the or-ganization of centers.
Rather, for establishing properreferential relations, the functional information struc-ture of the utterances becomes crucial (different per-spectives on functional analysis are brought forwardin Dane~ (1974b) and Dahl (1974)).
We share the no-tion of functional information structure as developedby Dane~ (1974a).
He distinguishes between two cru-cial dichotomies, viz.
given information vs. new infor-mation (constituting the information structure of ut-terances) on the one hand, and theme vs. rheme onthe other (constituting the thematic structure of utter-ances; cf.
Halliday & Hasan (1976, pp.325-6)).
Dane~refers to a definition given by Halliday (1967) to avoidthe confusion likely to arise in the use of these terms:"\[...\] while given means what you were talking about(or what I was talking about before), theme meanswhat I am talking about (now) \[...\]" Halliday (1967,p.212).
Dane~ concludes that the distinction betweengiven information and theme is justified, while the dis-tinction between ew information and rheme is not.Thus, we arrive at a trichotomy between given infor-mation, theme and rheme (the latter being equivalentto new information).
We here subscribe to these con-siderations, too, and will return in Section 3 to thesenotions in order to rephrase them more explicitly byusing the terminology of the centering model.In this paper, we intend to make two contributionsto the centering approach.
The first one, the intro-duction of functional notions of information structurein the centering model, is methodological in nature.The second one concerns an empirical issue in that wedemonstrate how a functional model of centering cansuccessfully be applied to the analysis of several formsof anaphoric text phenomena.At the methodological level, we develop argumentsthat (at least for free word order languages) grammat-ical role indicators hould be replaced by functional270role patterns to more adequately account for the or-dering of discourse ntities in center lists.
In Section3 we elaborate on the particular information structurecriteria underlying a function-based center ordering.We also make a second, even more general method-ological claim for which we have gathered some pre-liminary, though still not conclusive vidence.
Basedon a re-evaluation of empirical arguments discussedin the literature on centering, we stipulate that ex-changing rammatical by functional criteria is also areasonable strategy for fixed word order languages.Grammatical role constraints can indeed be rephrasedby functional ones, which is simply due to the factthat grammatical roles and the information structurepatterns, as we define them, coincide in these kindsof languages.
Hence, the proposal we make seemsmore general than the ones currently under discus-sion in that, given a functional framework, fixed andfree word order languages can be accounted for by thesame ordering principles.
As a consequence, we argueagainst Walker et al's (1994, p.227) stipulation, whichassumes that the C I ranking is the only parameter ofthe centering theory which is language-dependent.
In-stead, we claim that funct ional  centering constraintsfor the C!
ranking are possibly universal.The second major contribution of this paper is re-lated to the unified treatment of specific text phe-nomena.
It consists of an equally balanced treatmentof intersentential (pro)nominal naphora nd textualellipsis (also called functional or partial anaphora).The latter phenomenon (cf.
the examples given in thenext section), in particular, is usually only sketchilydealt with in the centering literature, e.g., by assert-ing that the entity in question "is realized but not di-rectly realized" (Grosz et al, 1995, p.217).
Further-more, the distinction between those two kinds of re-alization is generally delegated to the underlying se-mantic theory.
We will develop arguments how to lo-cate elliptical discourse ntities and resolve textual el-lipsis properly at the center level.
The ordering con-straints we supply account for all of the above men-tioned types of anaphora in a precise way, includ-ing (pro)nominal anaphora (Strube & Hahn, 1995;Hahn & Strube, 1996).
This claim will be validatedby a substantial body of empirical data (cf.
Section 4).2 Types of Anaphora ConsideredText phenomena, e.g., textual forms of ellipsis andanaphora, are a challenging issue for the design ofparsers for text understanding systems, since imper-fect recognition facilities either esult in referentiallyincoherent or invalid text knowledge representations.At the conceptual level, textual ellipsis relates aquasi-anaphoric expression to its extrasentential antecedentby conceptual ttributes (or roles) associated with thatantecedent (see, e.g., the relation between "Akkus"(accumulator) and "316LT", a particular notebook, in(lb) and (la)).
Thus, it complements the phenomenonof nominal anaphora, where an anaphoric expressionis related to its antecedent in terms of conceptual gen-eralization (as, e.g., "Rechner" (computer) in (lc)refers to "316LT'  in (la) mediated by the textual ellip-sis in (lb)).
The resolution of text-level nominal (andpronominal) anaphora contributes to the constructionof referentially valid text knowledge bases, while theresolution of textual ellipsis yields referentially coher-ent text knowledge bases.
(1) a. Ein Reserve-Batteriepaek v rsorgt den 316LT ca.2 Minuten mit Strom.
(A reserve battery pack - supplies - the 316LT -for approximately 2 minutes - with power.)b.
Der Status des Akkus wird dem Anwender ange-zeigt.
(The status of the accumulator - is - to the user -indicated.)c.
Ca.
30 Minuten vor der Entleerung beginnt derRechner 5 Sekunden zu beepen.
(Approximately 30 minutes - before the discharge- starts - the computer - for 5 seconds - to beep.)d.
5 Minuten bevor er sich ausschaltet, f'angt dieLow-Battery-LED an zu blinken.
(5 minutes - before - it - itself- turns off-  begins- the low-battery-LED - to flash.
)In the case of textual ellipsis, the missing concep-tual link between two discourse lements occurring inadjacent utterances must be inferred in  order to estab-lish the local coherence of the discourse (for an earlystatement of that idea, cf.
Clark (1975)).
In the sur-face form of utterance (lb) the information is missingthat "Akkus'" (accumulator) links up with "316LT".This relation can only be made explicit if conceptualknowledge about he domain, viz.
the relation part-ofbetween the concepts ACCUMULATOR and 316LT, isavailable (see Hahn et al (1996) for a more detailedtreatment of text ellipsis resolution).3 Principles of Functional CenteringWithin the framework of the centering model(Grosz et al, 1995), we distinguish each utterance'sbackward-looking center (Gb(U,~)) and its forward-looking centers (G!
(Un)).
The ranking imposed onthe elements of the G I reflects the assumption that themost highly ranked element of G I (t in) - the preferredcenter Cp(Un) - is the most preferred antecedent ofan anaphoric or elliptical expression in Un+l, whilethe remaining elements are partially ordered accord-ing to decreasing preference for establishing referen-tial links.
Hence, the most important single constructof the centering model is the ordering of the list offorward-looking centers (Walker et al, 1994).271The main difference between Grosz et al's workand our proposal concerns the criteria for ranking theforward-looking centers.
While Grosz et al assumethat grammatical roles are the major determinant forthe ranking on the C'y, we claim that for languageswith relatively free word order (such as German), itis the functional information structure (IS) of the ut-terance in terms of the context-boundedness or un-boundedness of discourse elements.
The centeringdata structures and the notion of context-boundednesscan be used to redefine Dane~' (1974a) trichotomy be-tween given information, theme and new information(rheme).
The Cb(U,), the most highly ranked elementof C.t(Un-i) realized in \[In, corresponds to the el-ement which represents the given information.
Thetheme of U, is represented by the preferred centerC'p(U,), the most highly ranked element of C!
(Un).The theme/rheme hierarchy of \[In is represented byCI(U,~ ) which - in our approach - is partly deter-mined by the C!
(Un-i) :  the rhematic elements of Unare the ones not contained in C!
(U,_ i ) (unbound is-course dements); they express the new information inUn.
The ones contained in Cl(U,_i ) and Cy(U,)(bound discourse elements) are thematic, with thetheme/rheme hierarchy corresponding to the rankingin the Cls.
The distinction between context-boundand unbound elements is important for the rankingon the C I, since bound elements are generally rankedhigher than any other non-anaphoric elements (cf.
alsoHaji~ov~i et al (1992)).An alternative definition of theme and rheme in thecontext of the centering approach is proposed by Ram-bow (1993).
In his approach the theme corresponds tothe Cb and the theme/rheme hierarchy can be derivedfrom those elements of C!
(U,-i) that are realized in\[In.
Rambow does not distinguish, however, betweenthe information structure and the thematic structureof utterances, which leads to problems when a changeof the criteria for recognizing the thematic structure isenvisaged, Our approach is flexible enough to acco-modate other conceptions of theme/rheme asdefined,e.g., by Haji6ov~i et al (1995), since this change af-fects only the thematic but not the information struc-ture of utterances.bound element(s) >~sb~.. unbound element(s)anaphora >X Sbo,,a(possessive pronoun xor elliptical antecedent) >,Sbo,,a(elliptical expression xor head of anaphoric expression)nom head, >pr,c nom head2 >p~,o ... >~,  nom headnTable 2: Functional Ranking Constraints on the C!The rules holding for the ranking on the C' I ,  derivedfrom a German language corpus, are summarized inTable 2.
They are organized into three layers 2.
Atthe top level, >,sb,,~ denotes the basic relation for theoverall ranking of information structure (IS) patterns.Accordingly, any context-bound expression in the ut-terance U,_ i is given the highest preference as a po-tential antecedent of an anaphoric or elliptical expres-sion in \[In while any unbound expression is rankednext to context-bound expressions.The second relation depicted in Table 2, >iSbou~u,denotes preference relations dealing exclusively withmultiple occurrences of (resolved) anaphora, i.e.,bound elements, in the preceding utterance.
>'Sbo,,ddistinguishes among different forms of context-boundelements (viz., anaphora, possessive pronouns and tex-tual ellipses) and their associated preference order.The final element of >,Sbou~u is either the ellipticalexpression or the head of an anaphoric expressionwhich is used as a possessive determiner, a Saxon gen-itive, a prepositional or a genitival attribute (cf.
theellipsis in (2c): "die Ladezeit" (the charge time) vs."seine Ladezeit" (its charge time) or "die Ladezeit desAkkus" (the accumulator's charge time)).For illustration purposes, consider text fragment (1)and the corresponding Oh~C!
data in Table 33: In (ld)the pronoun "er" (it) might be resolved to "Akku"(accumulator) or "Rechner" (computer), since bothfulfill the agreement condition for pronoun resolu-tion.
Now, "der Rechner" (computer) figures as anominal anaphor, already resolved to DELL-3 16LT,while "Akku" (accumulator) is only the antecedentof the elliptical expression "der Entleerung" (dis-charge).
Therefore, the preferred antecedent of "er"(it) is determined as Rechner (computer).The bottom level of Table 2 specifies >~rco whichcovers the preference order for multiple occurrencesof the same type of any information structure pattern,e.g., the occurrence of two anaphora or two unboundelements (all heads in an utterance are ordered bylinear precedence relative to their text position).
Insentence (2b), two nominal anaphors occur, "Akku"(accumulator) and "Rechner" (computer).
The tex-tual ellipsis "Ladezeit" (charge time) in (2c) has tobe resolved to the most preferred ement of the C' Iof (2b), viz.
the entity denoted by "Akku" (accumula-tor) (cf.
Table 4).
Note that "Rechner" (computer) isthe subject of the sentence, though it is not the pre-ferred antecedent, since "Akku" (accumulator) pre-cedes "Rechner" (computer) and is anaphoric as well.2Disregarding coordinations, the ordering we propose in-duces a strict ordering on the entities in a center list.3Minuten (minutes) is excluded from the C!
for reasonsconcerning the processing of complex sentences (cf.
Strube(1996)).272(la) Cb: DELL-3 16LT: 316LTCf."
\[DELL-316LT: 316LT, RESERVE-BATTERY-PAcK: Reserve-Batteriepack,TIME-UNIT-PAIR: 2 Minuten, POWER: Strom\](lb) Cb: DELL-316LT:-Cf: \[DELL-316LT:--, Accu: Akku, STATUS: Status, USER: Anwender\](lc) Cb: DELL-3 16LT: RechnerCf: \[DELL-316LT: Rechner, Accu: -- ,  DISCHARGE: Enfleerung,TIME-UNIT-PAIR: 30 Minuten, TIME-UNIT-PAIR: 5 Sekunden\](ld) Cb: DELL-3 16LT: erCf: \[DELL-316LT: er, LoW-BATTERY-LED: Low-Battery-LEDTable 3: Centering Data for Text Fragment (1)CONTINUECONTINUECONTINUECONTINUE(2a) Cb: DELL-3 16LT: 316LTCf: \[DELL-316LT: 316LT, NIMH-Accu: NiMH-Akku\](2b) Ch: DELL-3 16LT: ReehnerCf: \[NIMH-Accu: Akku, DELL-316LT: Rechner, TIME-UNIT-PAIR: 4 Stunden,POWER: Sffom\](2c) .
Cb: N IMH-Accu: -Cf: \[NIMH-Accu: - - ,  CHARGE-TIME: Ladezeit, TIME-UNIT-PAIR: 1,5 Stunden\]CONTINUERETAINSMOOTH-SHIFTTable 4: Centering Data for Text Fragment (2)(2) Der316LTw~dmiteinemNiMH-Akku bestllckt.
(I'he 316LT is - with a NiMH-accumulator -equipped.)b.
Durch diesen neuartigen Akku wird der Rechnerffir ca.
4 Stunden mit Strom versorgt.
(Because of this new type of accumulator - isthe computer - for approximately 4 hours - withpower - provided.)c.
Dartiberhinaus i t die Ladezeit mit 1,5 Stundensehr kurz.
(Also - is - the charge time of 1.5 hours - quiteshort.
)Given these basic relations, we may formulate thecomposite relation :>,s (Table 5).
It states the condi-tions for the comprehensive ordering of items on C!
(x and y denote lexical heads).>,s := { (x,y) I~fx and y both represent the same type of IS patternthen the relation >~,,c applies to x and yelse/fx and y both represent different formsof bound elementsthen the relation >rSbo,,a pplies to x and yelse the relation >rsb?,= applies to x and y }Table 5: Information Structure Relation4 Eva luat ionIn this section, we first describe the empirical andmethodological framework in which our evaluationexperiments were embedded, and then turn to a dis-cussion of evaluation results and the conclusions wedraw from the data.4.1 Evaluation FrameworkThe test set for our evaluation experiment consisted ofthree different ext sorts: 15 product reviews from theinformation technology (IT) domain (one of the twomain corpora t our lab), one article from the Germannews magazine Der Spiegel, and the first two chaptersof  a short story by the German writer Heiner Miil ler 4.The evaluation was carried out manually in order tocircumvent error chaining 5.
Table 6 summarizes thetotal numbers of anaphors, textual ellipses, utterancesand words in the test set.ag.
apho~ ellipses utterances wordsIT 308 294 451 5542Spiegel 102 25 82 1468MfiUer 153 20 87 867563 339 620 7877Table 6: Test SetGiven this test set, we compared three major ap-proaches to centering, viz.
the original model whoseordering principles are based on grammatical role in-dicators only (the so-called canonical model) as char-acterized by Table 1, an "intermediate" model whichcan be considered a naive approach to free word orderlanguages, and, of course, the funct ional  model basedon information structure constraints as stated in Table2.
For reasons discussed below, augmented versionsof the naive and the canonical approaches will also beconsidered.
They are characterized by the additional4Liebesgeschichte.
In Heiner Mflller.
Geschichten ausder Produktion 2.
Berlin: Rotbuch Verlag, pp.
57-63.SA performance evaluation of the current anaphora ndellipsis resolution capacities of our system is reported inHahn et al (1996).273constraint that elliptical antecedents are ranked higherthan elliptical expressions ( hort: "ante > express").For the evaluation of a centering algorithm on nat-urally occurring text it is necessary to specify how todeal with complex sentences.
In particular, methodsfor the interaction between intra- and intersententialanaphora resolution have to be defined, since the cen-tering model is concerned only with the latter case (seeSuri & McCoy (1994)).
We use an approach as de-scribed by Strube (1996) for the evaluation.Since most of the anaphors in these texts are nom-inal anaphors, the resolution of which is much morerestricted than that of pronominal naphors, the rate ofsuccess for the whole anaphora resolution process isnot significant enough for a proper evaluation of thefunctional constraints.
The reason for this lies in thefact that nominal anaphors are far more constrained byconceptual criteria than pronominal anaphors.
So thechance to properly resolve a nominal anaphor, evenat lower ranked positions in the center lists, is greaterthan for pronominal anaphors.
While we shift ourevaluation criteria way from simple anaphora resolu-tion success data to structural conditions based on theproper ordering of center lists (in particular, we focuson the most highly ranked item of the forward-lookingcenters) these criteria compensate for the high propor-tion of nominal anaphora that occur in our test sets.The types of centering transitions we make use of (cf.Table 7) are taken from Walker et al (1994).~(~)=~(~)~(~)#~(~)cb(u.)
= c~(u._~)OR Cb(U,,-I) undef.CONTINUERETAIN  ROUGH-SHIFTCb(U.)
#C~(U~_~)SMOOTH-SHIFTTable 7: Transition Types4.2 Evaluation ResultsIn Table 8 we give the numbers of centering transi-tions between the utterances in the three test sets.
Thefirst column contains those which are generated by thenaive approach (such a proposal was made by Gordonet al (1993) as well as by Rambow (1993) who, nev-ertheless, restricts it to the German middlefield only).We simply ranked the elements of C!
according totheir text position.
While it is usually assumed that theelliptical expression ranks above its antecedent (Groszet al, 1995, p.217), we assume the contrary.
The sec-ond column contains the results of this modificationwith respect to the naive approach.
In the third columnof Table 8 we give the numbers of transitions whichare generated by the canonical constraints as stated byGrosz et al (1995, p.214, 217).
The fourth columnsupplies the results of the same modification as wasused for the naive approach, viz.
elliptical antecedentsare ranked higher than elliptical expressions.
The fifthcolumn shows the results which are generated by thefunctional constraints from Table 2.First, we examine the error data for anaphora res-olution for the five cases.
All approaches have 99errors in common.
These are due to underspecifica-tions at different levels, e.g., the failure to accountfor prepositional naphors (16), plural anaphors (8),anaphors which refer to a member of a set (14), sen-tence anaphors (21), and anaphors which refer to theglobal focus (12).
Only 6 errors of the functional ap-proach are directly caused by an inappropriate order-ing of the C I,  while the naive approach leads to 10errors and the canonical to 7.
When the antecedent ofan elliptical expression is ranked above the ellipticalexpression itself the error rate of these two augmentedapproaches increases to 12 and 9, respectively.We now turn to the distribution of transition typesfor the different approaches.
The centering model as-sumes a preference order among these transitions, e.g.,CONTINUE ranks above RETAIN and RETAIN ranksabove SHIFT.
This preference order reflects the pre-sumed inference load put on the hearer or speakerto coherently decode or encode a discourse.
Sincethe functional approach generates a larger amountof CONTINUE transitions, we interpret this as a firstrough indication that this approach provides for moreefficient processing than its competitors.But this reasoning isnot entirely conclusive.
Count-ing single occurrences of transition types, in general,does not reveal the entire validity of the center lists.Instead, considering adjacent transition pairs gives amore reliable picture, since depending on the text sortconsidered (e.g., technical vs. news magazine vs. lit-erary texts) certain sequences of transition types maybe entirely plausible, though they include transitionswhich, when viewed in isolation, seem to imply con-siderable inferencing load (cf.
Table 8).
For instance,a CONTINUE transition which follows a CONTINUEtransition is a sequence which requires the lowest pro-cessing costs.
But a CONTINUE transition which fol-lows a RETAIN transition implies higher processingcosts than a SMOOTH-SHIFT transition following aRETAIN transition.
This is due to the fact that a RE-TAIN transition ideally predicts a SMOOTH-SHIFT inthe following utterance.
In this case the SMOOTH-SHIFT is the "least effort" transition, because only thefirst element of the C!
of the preceding utterance hasto be checked to perform the SMOOTH-SHIFT transi-tion, while in the case of CONTINUE at least one morecheck has to be performed.
Hence, we claim that noone particular centering transition is preferred over an-other.
Instead, we postulate that some centering tran-sition pairs are preferred over others.
Following this274ITTransition Types naive naive &ante > expressCONTINUE 49 167RETAIN 269 158SMOOTH-SHIFT 32 41ROUGH-SHIFT 39 23Errors ' 69 70canonical102226243768canonic~ & functional an~ > express197 309131 2535 5126 469 67SpiegelMiillerCONTINUE 17RETAIN 42SMOOTH-SHIFT 9ROUGH-SHIFT 7Errors 18CONTINUE 31RETAIN 19SMOOTH-SHIFT 15ROUGH-SItlFT 14Errors 22CONTINUE 97RETAIN 330SMOOTH-SHIFT 56ROUGH-SHIFT 60Errors (specific errors) 109 (10)28329619311917122237287316321815142243 5023 128 131 017 f632 3618 1516 1813 1022 22272 395172 5259 8240 14108 (9) 105 (6)226  171209 27267 4641 54111 (12) 106 (7)Table 8: Numbers of Centering Transitionsline of argumentation, we here propose to classify alloccurrences of centering transition pairs with respectto the costs they imply.
The cost-based evaluationof different C!
orderings refers to evaluation criteriawhich form an intrinsic part of the centering model 6.Transition pairs hold for two immediately succes-sive utterances.
We distinguish between two types oftransition pairs, cheap ones and expensive ones.
Wecall a transition pair cheap if the backward-lookingcenter of the current utterance is correctly predictedby the preferred center of the immediately preced-ing utterance, i.e., Cb(Ui) = Gp(Ui_l),i = 2. .
.n .Transition pairs are called expensive if the backward-looking center of the current utterance is not correctlypredicted by the preferred center of the immediatelypreceding utterance, i.e., Cb(Ui) # Gp(Ui_l),i =2.
.
.
n. Table 9 contains a detailed synopsis of cheapand expensive transition pairs.
In particular, chainsof the RETAIN transition in passages where the Cbdoes not change (passages with constant theme) showthat the canonical ordering constraints for the forward-looking centers are not appropriate,The numbers of centering transition pairs generatedby the different approaches are shown in Table 10, Ingeneral, the functional approach shows the best re-6As a consequence of this postulate, we have to rede-fine Rule 2 of the Centering Constraints (Grosz et al, 1995,p.215) appropriately, which gives an informal characteriza-tion of a preference for sequences of CONTINUE over se-quences of RETAIN arid, similarly, sequences of RETAINover sequences of SHIFT.
Our specification for the case oftext interpretation says that cheap transitions are preferredover expensive ones, with cheap and expensive transitionsas defined in Table 9.Suits, while the naive and the canonical approacheswork reasonably well for the literary text, but exhibita poor performance for the texts from the IT domainand the news magazine.
The results for the latter ap-proaches become only slightly more positive with themodification of ranking the antecedent of a textual el-lipsis above the elliptical expression, but they do notcompare to the results of the functional approach.We were also interested in finding out whether thefunctional ordering we propose possibly "includes"the grammatical role based criteria discussed so far.We, therefore, re-evaluated the examples already an-notated with Gb/C!
data available in the literature(for the English language, we considered all exam-pies from Grosz et al (1995) and Brennan et al(1987); for Japanese we took the data from Walkeret al (1994)).
Surprisingly enough, all examples ofGrosz et al (1995) passed the test successfully.
Onlywith respect o the troublesome Alfa Romeo drivingscenario (cf.
Brennan et al (1987, p.157)) our con-straints fail to properly rank the elements of the thirdsentence C!
of that example.
7 Note also that theseresults were achieved without having recourse to ex-tra constraints, e.g., the shared property constraint toaccount for anaphora parallelism (Kameyama, 1986).We applied our constraints o Japanese xamples inthe same way.
Again we abandoned all extra con-straints et up in these studies, e.g., the Zero Topic As-signment (ZTA) rule and the special role of empathy7In essence, the very specific problem addressed by thatexample seems to be that Friedman has not been previouslyintroduced inthe local discourse segment and is only acces-sible via the global focus.275CONTINUE- cheapCONTINUE cheapRETAIN expensiveSMOOTH-SHIFT cheapROUGH-SHIFT expensiveRETAINexpensivecheapexpensiveexpensiveexpensiveSMOOTH-SHIFTexpensNecheapexpens~echeapROUGH-SHIFTiexpensiveexpensiveexpensiveexpensiveTable 9: Costs for Transition Pairsnaive & cost type naive ante > expresscheap 72 1801T expensive 317 209Cheap 25 36Spiegel expensive 50 39cheap 45 48MOiler expensive 34 31cheap 142 264expensive 401 279c~onical129260453046"33,220323functional ante > express236153512448313352083216862135524438105Table 10: Cost Values for Centering Transition Pair Typesverbs (Walker et al, 1994).
However, the results ourconstraints generate are the same as those generated byWalker et al including these model extensions.
Only asingle problematic case remains, viz.
example (30) ofWalker et al (1994, p.214) causes the same problemsthey described (discourse-initial utterance, semanticor world knowledge should be available).
Even forthe crucial examples (32)-(36) of Walker et al (1994,p.216-221) our constraints generate the same Cls asWalker et al' s constraints with ZTA.To summarize the results of our empirical evalua-tion, we first claim that our proposal based on func-tional criteria leads to substantially better and - -  withrespect to the inference load placed on the text under-stander, whether human or machine - -  more plausi-ble results for languages with free word order than thestructural constraints given by Grosz et al (1995) andthose underlying a naive approach.
We base these ob-servations on an evaluation approach which considerstransition pairs in terms of the inference load specificpairs imply.
Second, we have gathered some evidence,still far from being conclusive, that he functional con-straints on centering seem to incorporate the struc-tural constraints for English and the modified struc-tural constraints for Japanese.
Hence, we hypothesizethat functional constraints on centering might consti-tute a general mechanism for treating free an___dd fixedword order languages by the same descriptive mecha-nism.
This claim, however, has to be further substan-tiated by additional cross-linguistic empirical studies.5 Compar i son  w i th  Re la ted  ApproachesThe centering model (Grosz et al, 1983; 1995) is con-cerned with the interactions between the local coher-ence of discourse and the choices of referring expres-sions.
Crucial for the centering model is the waythe forward-looking centers are organized.
Despiteseveral cross-linguistic studies a kind of "standard"has emerged based on the study of English (cf.
Ta-ble 1 in Section 1).
Only few of these cross-linguisticstudies have led to changes in the basic order of dis-course entities, the work of Walker et al (1990;1994) being the most far reaching exception.
Theyconsider the role of expressive means in Japanese toindicate topic status and the speaker's perspective,thus introducing functional notions, viz.
ToPIc andEMPATHY, into the discussion.
German, the objectlanguage we deal with, is also a free word order lan-guage like Japanese (possibly even more constrained).Our basic revision of the ordering scheme completelyabandons grammatical role information and replaces itwith entirely functional notions reflecting the informa-tion structure of the utterances in the discourse.
Inter-estingly enough, several extra assumptions introducedto account, e.g., for anaphora parallelism (e.g., theshared property constraint formulated by Kameyama(1986)) can be eliminated without affecting the cor-rectness of anaphora resolutions.
Rambow (1993) haspresented a theme/rheme distinction within the cen-tering model to which we fully subscribe.
His pro-posal concerning the centering analysis of German (al-ready referred to as the "naive" approach; cf.
Section4) is limited, however, to the German middlefield and,hence, incomplete.A common topic of criticism relating to focusingapproaches toanaphora resolution has been the diver-sity of data structures they require, which are likelyto hide the underlying linguistic regularities.
Focus-ing algorithms prefer the discourse lement alreadyin focus for anaphora resolution, thus consideringcontext-boundedness, too.
But the items of the fo-cus lists are either ordered by thematic roles (Sidner,2761983) or grammatical roles (Suri & McCoy, 1994;Dahl & Ball, 1990)).
Dahl & Ball (1990) improvethe focusing mechanism by simplifying its data struc-tures and, thus, their proposal is more closely relatedto the centering model than any other focusing mecha-nism.
But their approach still relies upon grammaticalinformation for the ordering of the centering list, whilewe use only the functional information structure as theguiding principle.6 Conc lus ionIn this paper, we provided an account for orderingthe forward-looking centers which is entirely based onfunctional notions, grounded on the information struc-ture of utterances in a discourse.
We motivated ourproposal by the constraints which hold for a free wordorder language such as German and derived our resultsfrom data-intensive empirical studies of (real-world)expository texts.
We have gathered preliminary evi-dence that the functional ordering of discourse nti-ties in the centers eems to coincide with the gram-matical roles of fixed word order languages.
We alsoaugmented the ordering criteria of the forward-lookingcenter such that it accounts not only for (pro)nominalbut also for functional anaphora (textual ellipsis), anissue that, so far, has only been sketchily dealt within the centering framework.
The extensions we pro-pose have been validated by the empirical analysis ofreal-world expository texts of considerable ngth.
Wethus follow methodological principles of corpus-basedstudies that have been successfully exercised in thework of Passonneau (1993).
Still open are proper de-scriptions of deictic expressions, proper names (cf.
theAlfa Romeo driving scenario), and plural or genericdefinite noun phrases.
An anaphora resolution moduleand an ellipsis handler based on this functional center-ing model has been implemented aspart of a compre-hensive text parser for German.Acknowledgments.
Wewould like to thank our colleaguesin the 8?ZY r group for fruitful discussions and Jon A1-cantara (Cambridge, UK) for re-reading the final versionvia Interact.
This work has been funded by LGFG Baden-Wiirttemberg (M. S trube).Re ferencesBrennan, S. E., M. W. Friedman & C. J. Pollard (1987).
Acentering approach to pronouns.
In Proc.
of ACL-87,pp.
155-162.Clark, H. H. (1975).
Bridging.
In Proc.
of TINLAP-1, pp.169-174.Cote, S. (1996).
Ranking forward-looking centers.
InE.
Prince, A. Joshi & M. Walker (Eds.
), Centering inDiscourse.
Oxford: Oxford University Press (to ap-pear).Dahl, D. A.
& C. N. Ball (1990).
Reference resolution inPUNDIT.
In P. Saint-Dizier & S. Szpakowicz (Eds.
),Logic and Logic Grammars for Language Processing,pp.. 168-184.
Chichester, U.K.: Ellis Horwood.Dahl, O.
(Ed.)
(1974).
Topic and Comment, ContextualBoundness, and Focus.
Hamburg: Buske.Dane~, E (1974a).
Functional sentence perspective andthe organization of the text.
In F. Dane~ (Ed.
), Pa-person Functional Sentence Perspective, pp.
106-128.Prague: Academia.Dane~, F.(Ed.)
(1974b).
Paperson FunctionalSentencePer-spective.
Prague: Academia.Gordon, P. C., B. J. Grosz & L. A. Gilliom (1993).
Pro-nouns, names, and the centering of attention in dis-course.
Cognitive Science, 17:311-347.Grosz, B. J., A. K. Joshi & S. Weinstein (1983).
Providing aunified account of definite noun phrases in discourse.In Proc.
of ACL-83, pp.
4430.Grosz, B. J., A. K. Joshi & S. Weinstein (1995).
Center-.ing: A framework for modeling the local coherence ofdiscourse.
Computational Linguistics, 21 (2):203-225.Hahn, U.
& M. Strube (1996).
Incremental centering andcenter ambiguity.
In Proc.
of the 18 th Annual Confer-ence of the Cognitive Science Society.
La Jolla, CA.Hahn, U., M. Strube & K. Markert (1996).
Bridging textualellipses.
In Proc.
of COLING-96.Hajieowi, E., V. Kubofi & P. Kubofi (1992).
Stock of sharedknowledge: A tool for solving pronominal anaphora:InProc.
ofCOL1NG-92, Vol.
1, pp.
127-133.Haji~ov~, E., H. Skoumalov~ & P. Sgall (1995).
An auto-marie procedure for topic-focus identification.
Com-putational Linguistics, 21(1):81-94.Halliday, M. A. K. (1967).
Notes on transitivity and themein English, Part 2.
Journal of Linguistics, 3:199-244.Halliday, M. A. K, & R. Hasan (1976).
Cohesion in English.London: Longman.Kameyama, M. (1986).
A property-sharing constraint incentering.
In Proc.
of ACL-86, pp.
200-206.Passormeau, R. J.
(1993).
Getting and keeping the center ofattention.
In M. Bates & R. Weisehedel (Eds.
), Chal-lenges in Natural Language Processing, pp.
179-227.Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.Rambow, O.
(1993), Pragmatic aspects of scrambling andtopicalization i German.
In IRCS Workshop on Cen-tering in Discourse.
Univ.
of Pennsylvania, 1993.Sidner, C. L. (1983).
Focusing in the comprehension of deft-nite anaphora.
In M. Brady & R. Berwick (Eds.
), Com-putational Models of Discourse, pp.
267-330.
Cam-bridge, MA: MIT Press.Strube, M. (1996).
Processing complex sentences inthe cen-tering framework.
In this volume.Strube, M. & U. Hahn (1995).
ParseTalk about sentence-and text-level anaphora.
In Proc.
of EACL-95, pp.
237-244.Suri, L. Z.
& K. F. McCoy (1994).
RAFT/RAPR and center?ing: A comparison and discussion of problems relatedto processing complex sentences.
Computational Lin-guistics, 20(2):301-317.Turan, U.
(1995).
Null vs.
Overt Subjects in Turkish: A Cen-tering Approach.
(Ph.D. thesis).
University of Penn-sylvania.Walker, M. A., M. Iida & S. Cote (1990).
Centering inJapanese discourse.
In Proc.
of COLING.90, Ap-pendix, 6pp.Walker, M. A., M. Iida & S. Cote (1994).
Japanesediscourseand the process of centering.
Computational Linguis-tics, 20(2): 193-233.277
