Towards Testing the Syntax of PunctuationBernard  Jones*Centre for Cognit ive ScienceUnivers i ty of Ed inburgh2 Buccleuch PlaceEd inburgh EH8 9LWUnited K ingdombernie@cogsci, ed.
ac.
ukAbst ractLittle work has been done in NLPon the subject of punctuation, owingmainly to a lack of a good theory onwhich computational treatments could bebased.
This paper described early workin progress to try to construct such atheory.
Two approaches to finding thesyntactic function of punctuation marksare discussed, and procedures are describedby which the results from these approachescan be tested and evaluated both againsteach other as well as against other work.Suggestions are made for the use of theseresults, and for future work.1 BackgroundThe field of punctuation has been almost completelyignored within Natural Language Processing, withperhaps the exception of the sentence-final full-stop(period).
This is because there is no coherent theoryof punctuation on which a computational treatmentcould be based.
As a result, most contemporarysystems imply strip out punctuation i input text,and do not put any marks into generated texts.Intuitively, this seems very wrong, since punctu-ation is such an integral part of many writtenlanguages.
If text in the real world (a newspaper,for example) were to appear without any punctu-ation marks, it would appear very stilted, ambiguousor infantile.
Therefore it is likely that any computa-tional system that ignores these extra textual cueswill suffer a degradation i performance, or at thevery least a great restriction in the class of linguisticdata it is able to process.Several studies have already shown the potentialfor using punctuation within NLP.
Dale (1991) has* This work was carried out under an award from the(UK) ESRC.
Thanks are also due to Lex Holt, HenryThompson, Ted Briscoe and anonymous reviewers.shown the benefits of using punctuation i the fieldsof discourse structure and semantics, and Jones(1994) has shown in the field of syntax that usinga grammar that includes punctuation yields aroundtwo orders of magnitude f wer parses than one whichdoes not.
Further work has been carried out in thisarea, particularly by Briscoe and Carroll (1995), toshow more accurately the contribution that usage ofpunctuation can make to the syntactic analysis oftext.The main problem with these studies is that thereis little available in terms of a theory of punctu-ation on which computational treatments could bebased, and so they have somewhat ad hoc, idiosyn-cratic treatments.
The only account of punctuationavailable is that of Nunberg (1990), which althoughit provides a useful basis for a theory is a little toovague to be used as the basis of any implementation.Therefore it seems necessary to develop a newtheory of punctuation, that is suitable for compu-tational implementation.
Some work has alreadybeen carried out, showing the variety of punctuationmarks and their orthographic interaction (Jones,1995), but this paper describes the continuation ofthis research to determine the true syntactic functionof punctuation marks in text.There are two possible angles to the problem of thesyntactic function of punctuation: an observationalone, and a theoretical one.
Both approaches wereadopted, in order to be be able to evaluate the resultsof each approach against hose of the other, and inthe hope that the results of both approaches couldbe combined.
Thus the approaches are describedone after the other here.2 Corpus -based  ApproachThe best data source for observation ofgrammaticalpunctuation usage is a large, parsed corpus.
Itensures a wide range of real language is covered, andbecause of its size it should minimise the effect of any363errors or idiosyncrasies on the part of editors, parsersand transcribers.
Since these corpora are almost allhand-produced, some errors and idiosyncrasies areinevitable - -  one important part of the analysis istherefore to identify possible instances of these, andif they are cleat, to remove them from the results.The corpus chosen was the bow Jones section ofthe Penn Treebank (size: 1.95 million words).
Thebracketings were analysed so that each node witha punctuation mark as its immediate daughter isreported, with its other daughters abbreviated totheir categories, as in (1) - (3).
(1) \[NP \[NP the following\] : \] ==~ \[UP = NP :\](2) Is \[PP In Edinburgh\] , \[s ...\] \] ==~ Is = PP, s\](3) \[NP \[UP Bob\] , \[NP .
.
.)
, \] ==> \[NP = NP , NP, \]In this fashion each sentence was broken downinto a set of such category-patterns, resulting in aset of different category-patterns for each punctu-ation symbol, which were then processed to extractthe underlying rule patterns which represent all theways that punctuation behaves in this corpus, andare good indicators of how the punctuation marksmight behave in the rest of language.There were 12,700 unique category-patternsextracted from the corpus for the five most commonmarks of point punctuation, ranging from 9,320 forthe comma to 425 for the dash.
These were thenreduced to just 137 underlying rule-patterns for thecolon, semicolon, dash, comma, full-stop.Even some of these underlying rule-patterns,however, were questionable since their incidence isvery low (maybe once in the whole corpus) or theirform is so linguistically strange so as to call intodoubt their correctness (possibly idiosyncratic mis-parses), as in (4).
(4) \[ADVP --'~ PP , NP\]Therefore all the patterns were checked againstthe original corpus to recover the original sentences.The sentences for patterns with low incidenceand those whose correctness was questionable werecarefully examined to determine whether there wasany justification for a particular ule-pattern, giventhe content of the sentence.For example, the NP:NP:VP rule-pattern wasremoved since all the verb phrases occurring inthis pattern were imperative ones, which can legiti-mately act as sentences (5).
Therefore instances ofthis rule application were covered by the NP=NP:Srule-pattern.
A detailed account of the removalof idiosyncratic, incorrect and exceptional rule-patterns, with justifications, is reported in (Jones,1996).
(5) \[... \] the show's distributor, Viacom Inc, is givingan ultimatum: either sign new long-term commit-ments to buy future episodes or risk losing "Cosby"to a competitor.After this further pruning procedure, the numberof rule-patterns was reduced to just 79, more thanhalf of which related to the comma.
It was nowpossible to postulate some generalisations about theuse of the various punctuation marks from thisreduced set of rule-patterns.These generalised punctuation rules, described inmore detail in (Jones, 1996), are given below forcolons (6), semicolons (7), full-stops (8), dashes(9,10), commas (11), basic quotation(12) and stress-markers (13-15).
(6) X=X:{uP IS lAOJP}  X:{~P,S}(7) S ----- S , S S:{NP, S, VP, PP}(8) T = ?
.
(9) ~ = '~ -- "D -- "~:{NP, S, VP, PP, ADJP}(10) e = e -- { NP I S I VP I PP } -- ~:{NP, S }(II) C = C , * C:{NP, S, VP, PP, ADJP, ADVP}C=, ,C(12) Q="Q"  Q: ,(13) Z = Z ?
Z : *(14) ~ = y !
Y : *(15) W=W.
.
.
W:*3 A Theoret i ca l  ApproachThe theoretical starting point is that punctuationseems to occur at a phrasal level, i.e.
it comesimmediately before or after a phrasal level lexicalitem (e.g.
a noun phrase).
However, this is arather general definition, so we need to examine theproblem more exactly.Punctuation could occur adjacent o any complexstructure.
However, we want to prevent occurrencessuch as (16).
Conversely, punctuation could onlyoccur adjacent o maximal evel phrases (e.g.
NP,vP).
However, this rules out correct cases like (17).
(16) The, new toy ...(17) He does, surprisingly, like fish.Clearly we need something stricter than the firstapproach, but more relaxed than the second.
Thenotion of headedness eems to be involved, sowe can postulate that only non-head structurescan have punctuation attached.
This system stilldoes not rule out examples like (18) however, so364further refinement is necessary.
The answer seemsto be to look at the level of head daughter andmother categories under X-bar theory (Jackendoff,1977).
Attachment of punctuation to the non-headdaughter only seems to be legal when mother andhead-daughter are of the same bar level (and indeedmore often than not they are identical categories),regardless of what that bar level is.
(18) the, big, man~om this theoretical approach it appears thatpunctuation could be described as being adjunctive(i.e.
those phrases to which punctuation is attachedserve an adjunctive function).
Furthermore,conjunctive uses of punctuation (19,20), conven-tionally regarded as being distinct from other moregrammatical uses (the adjunctive ones), can alsobe made to function via the theoretical principlesformed here.
(19) dogs, cats, fish and mice(20) most, or many, examples ...4 Test ing  - -  Work  in  P rogressThe next stage of this research is to test the resultsof both these approaches to see if they work, andalso to compare their results.
Since the results ofthe two studies do not seem incompatible, it shouldprove possible to combine them, and it will be inter-esting to see if the results from using the combinedapproaches differ at all from the results of using theapproaches individually.
It will also be useful tocompare the results with those of studies that have aless formal basis for their treatments ofpunctuation,e.g.
(Briscoe and Carroll, 1995).For this reason the best way to test the results ofthese approaches topunctuation's role in syntax is toincorporate them into otherwise identical grammarsand study the coverage of the grammars in parsingand the quality and accuracy of the parses.
For easeof comparison with other studies, the best parsingframework to use will be the Alvey Tools' GrammarDevelopment Environment (GDE) (Carroll et al,1991), which allows for rapid prototyping and easyanalysis of parses.
The corpus of sentences torun thegrammars over should ideally be large, and consistmainly of real text from external sources.
To avoiddealing with idiosyncratic tagging of words, andover-complicated sentences, we shall follow Briscoeand Carroll (1995) rather than Jones (1994) and use35,000 prepared sentences from the Susanne corpusrather than using the Spoken English Corpus.3655 Fur ther  WorkThe theoretical pproach not only seems to confirmthe reality of the generalised punctuation rulesderived observationally, since they all seem tohave an adjunctive nature, but it also gives usa framework with which those generalised rulescould be included in proper, linguistically-based,grammars.
Results of testing will show whethereither of the approaches are better on their own, andhow they perform when they are combnined, andwill, hopefully, show an improvement in performanceover the ad-hoc methods used previously.
The devel-opment of a theory of punctuation can then progresswith investigations into the semantic function ofpunctuation marks, to ultimately form a theory thatwill be of great use to the NLP community.Re ferencesEdward Briscoe and John Carroll.
1995.
Devel-oping and Evaluating a Probabilistic LR Parserof Part-of-Speech and Punctuation Labels.
InProceedings of the ACL/SIGPARSE ~th Interna-tional Workshop on Parsing Technologies, pages48-58, PragueJohn Carroll, Edward Briscoe and Claire Grover.1991.
A Development Environment for LargeNatural Language Grammars.
Technical Report233, Cambridge University Computer Laboratory.Robert Dale.
1991.
Exploring the Role of Punctu-ation in the Signalling of Discourse Structure.In Proceedings of the Workshop on Text Repre-sentation and Domain Modelling, pages 110-120,Technical University Berlin.Ray Jackendoff.
1977.
X-bar Syntax: A Study ofPhrase Structure.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Bernard Jones.
1994.
Exploring the Role of Punctu-ation in Parsing Real Text.
In Proceedings of the15th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING-94), pages 421-425, Kyoto,Japan, August.Bernard Jones.
1995.
Exploring the Variety andUse of Punctuation.
In Proceedings of the 17thAnnual Cognitive Science Conference, pages 619-624, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, July.Bernard Jones.
1996.
Towards a Syntactic Accountof Punctuation.
To appear in Proceedings ofthe 16th International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics (COLING-96), Copenhagen,Denmark, August.Geoffrey Nunberg.
1990.
The Linguistics ofPunctuation.
CSLI Lecture Notes 18, Stanford,California.
