Using Terminological Knowledge Representation Languages toManage Linguistic ResourcesPamela  W.  Jo rdanIntel l igent Systems ProgramUniversity of P i t tsburghP i t tsburgh PA 15260jordan@isp.pit t .eduAbst ractI examine how terminological languagescan be used to manage linguistic data dur-ing NL research and development.
In par-ticular, I consider the lexical semantics taskof characterizing semantic verb classes andshow how the language can be extended toflag inconsistencies in verb class definitions,identify the need for new verb classes, andidentify appropriate linguistic hypothesesfor a new verb's behavior.1 In t roduct ionProblems with consistency and completeness canarise when writing a wide-coverage rammar or an-alyzing lexical data since both tasks involve workingwith large amounts of data.
Since terminologicalknowledge representation languages have been valu-able for managing data in other applications suchas a software information system that manages alarge knowledge base of plans (Devanbu and Lit-man, 1991), it is worthwhile considering how theselanguages can be used in linguistic data managementtasks.
In addition to inheritance, terminological sys-tems provide a criterial semantics for links and auto-matic classification which inserts a new concept intoa taxonomy so that it directly links to concepts moregeneral than it and more specific than it (Woods andSchmolze, 1992).Terminological languages have been used in NLPapplications for lexical representation (Burkert,1995), and grammar representation (Brachman andSchmolze, 1991), and to assist in the acquisitionand maintenance of domain specific lexical seman-tics knowledge (Ayuso et al, 1987).
Here I exploreadditional linguistic data management tasks.
In par-ticular I examine how a terminological l nguage suchas Classic (Brachman et al, 1991) can assist a lexi-cal semanticist with the management of verb classes.In conclusion, I discuss ways in which terminologicallanguages can be used during grammar writing.Consider the tasks that confront a lexical seman-ticist.
The regular participation of verbs belongingto a particular semantic lass in a limited numberof syntactic alternations i  crucial in lexical seman-tics.
A popular esearch direction assumes that thesyntactic behavior of a verb is systematically influ-enced by its meaning (Levin, 1993; Hale and Keyser,1987) and that any set of verbs whose members pat-tern together with respect o syntactic alternationsshould form a semantically coherent class (Levin,1993).
Once such a class is identified, the mean-ing component that the member verbs share can beidentified.
This gives further insight into lexical rep-resentation for the words in the class (Levin, 1993).Terminological languages can support three im-portant functions in this domain.
First, the processof representing the system in a taxonomic logic canserve as a check on the rigor and precision of theoriginal account.
Once the account is represented,the terminological system can flag inconsistencies.Second, the classifier can identify an existing verbclass that might explain an unassigned verb's be-havior.
That is, given a set of syntactically ana-lyzed sentences that exemplify the syntactic alterna-tions allowed and disallowed for that verb, the clas-sifter will provide appropriate linguistic hypotheses.Third, the classifier can identify the need for newverb classes by flagging verbs that are not mem-bers of any existing, defined verb classes.
Together,these functions provide tools for the lexical seman-ticist that are potentially very useful.The second and third of these three functions canbe provided in two steps: (1) classifying each alter-nation for a particular verb according to the type ofsemantic mapping allowed for the verb and its argu-ments; and (2) either identifying the verb class thathas the given pattern of classified alternations or us-ing the pattern to form the definition of a new verbclass.2 Sentence  C lass i f i ca t ionThe usual practice in investigating the alternationpatterning of a verb is to construct example sen-tences in which simple, illustrative noun phrases areused as arguments of a verb.
The sentences in (1)366exemplify two familiar alternations of give.
(1) a. John gave Mary a bookb.
John gave a book to Mary.Such sentences exemplify an alternation that be-longs to the alternation pattern of their verb.
1 I willcall this the alternation type of the test sentence.To determine the alternation type of a test sen-tence, the sentence must be syntactically analyzedso that its grammatical functions (e.g.
subject, ob-ject) are marked.
Then, given semantic feature in-formation about the words filling those grammaticalfunctions (GFs), and information about the possibleargument structures for the verb in the sentence andthe semantic feature restrictions on these arguments,it is possible to find the argument structures appro-priate to the input sentence.
Consider the sentencesand descriptions hown below for pour:(2) a.
\[Mary,,hi\] poured \[Tinaobj\] [a glass of mflkio\].b.
\[Marys,bj\] poured \[a glass of milkobj\] for\[Tinam, o\].poura: subj ~ agent\[volitional\]obj ~ recipient\[voUtional\]io ~ patient\[liquid\]pour2: subj --+ agent\[volitional\]obj ---* patient\[l/quid\]ppo ---* recipient\[volitional\]Given the semantic type restrictions and the GFs,pour1 describes (2a) and pourz, (2b).
The mappingfrom the GFs to the appropriate argument structureis similar to lexical rules in the LFG syntactic theoryexcept that here I semantically type the arguments.To indicate the alternation types for these sentences,I call sentence (2a) a benefactive-ditransitive andsentence (2b) a benefactive-transitive.Classifying a sentence by its alternation typerequires linguistic and world knowledge.
Worldknowledge is used in the definitions of nouns andverbs in the lexicon and describes high-level enti-ties, such as events, and animate and inanimateobjects.
Properties ( such  as LIQUID) are used todefine specialized entities.
For example, the prop-erty NON-CONSUMABLE (SMALL CAPITALS indicateClassic concepts in my implementation) specializesa L IQUID-ENTITY  to  define PAINT and distinguish itfrom WATER, which has the property that it is CON-SUMABLE.
Specialized EVENT entities are used inthe definition of verbs in the lexicon and representthe argument structures for the verbs.The linguistic knowledge needed to support sen-tence classification includes the definitions of (1)verb types such as intransitive, transitive and all-transitive; (2) verb definitions; and (3) concepts thatdefine the links between the GFs and verb argumentstructures as represented by events.1In the examples that I will consider, and in mostexamples used by linguists to test alternation patterns,there will only be one verb; this is the verb to be tested.Verb types (SUBCATEGORIZATIONS) are definedaccording to the GFs found in the sentence.
Forexample, (2a) classifies as DITRANSITIVE and (2b)as a specialized TRANSITIVE with a PP.
Once theverb type is identified, verb definitions (VERBs) areneeded to provide the argument structures.
A VERBcan have multiple senses which are instances ofEVENTs, for example the verb "pour" can have thesenses pour or prepare, with the required argumentsshown below.
2 Note that pour1 and pour2 in (2) aresubcategorizations of prepare.pour: pourer\[volitional\]pouree\[inanirnate--container\]poured\[inanimate-substance\]prepare: preparer\[volitional\]preparee\[liquia\]prepared\[volitional\]For a sentence to classify as a particular ALTERNA-TION, a legal linking must exist between an EVENTand the SUBCATEGORIZATION.
Linking involves re-stricting the fillers of the GFs in the SUBCATEGO-RIZATION to be the same as the arguments in anEVENT.
In Classic, the same-as  restriction is lim-ited so that either both attributes must be filled al-ready with the same instance or the concept mustalready be known as a LEGAL-LINKING.
Because ofthis I created a test (written in LISP) to identify aLEGAL-LINKING.
The test inputs are the sentencepredicate and GF fillers arranged in the order of theevent arguments against which they are to be tested.A linking is legal when at least one of the events as-sociated with the verb can be linked in the indicatedway, and all the required arguments are filled.Once a sentence passes the linking test, and clas-sifies as a particular ALTERNATION, a rule associatedwith the ALTERNATION classifies it as a speciMiza-lion of the concept.
This causes the EVENT argu-ments to be filled with the appropriate GF fillersfrom the SUBCATEGORIZATION.
A side-effect of thealternation classification is that the EVENT classifiesas a specialized EVENT and indicates which sense ofthe verb is used in the sentence.3 Semant ic  Class C lass i f icat ionThe semantic lass of the verb can be identified oncethe example sentences are classified by their alterna-tion type.
Specialized VERB-CLASSes are defined bytheir good and bad alternations.
Note that VERBdefines one verb whereas VERB-CLASS describes aset of verbs (e.g.
spray/load class).
Which AL-TERNATIONs are associated with a VERB-CLASS is amatter of linguistic evidence; the linguist discoversthese associations by testing examples for grammat-icality.
To assist in this task, I provide two tests,have-instances-of and have-no-instances-of.2For generality in the implementation, I use argl ...arg, for all event definitions instead of agent ... patientor preparer ... preparee.367The have- ins tances -o f  test for an ALTERNATIONsearches a corpus of good sentences or bad sen-tences and tests whether at least one instance of thespecified ALTERNATION, for example a benefactive-ditransitive, is present.A bad sentence with all the required verb ar-guments will classify as an ALTERNATION despitethe ungrammatical syntactic realization, while abad sentence with missing required arguments willonly classify as a SUBCATEGORIZATION.
Thehave-no-instances-of test for a SUBCATEGORIZA-T ION searches a corpus of bad sentences and testswhether at least one instance of the specifiedSUBCATEGORIZATION, for example TRANSITIVE, ispresent as the most specific classification.4 D iscuss ionThe ultimate test of this approach is in how wellit will scale up.
The linguist may choose to addknowledge as it is needed or may prefer to do thiswork in batches.
To support the batch approach,it may be useful to extract detailed subcategoriza-tion information from English learner's dictionaries.Also it will be necessary to decide what semanticfeatures are needed to restrict the fillers of the ar-gument structures.
Finally, there is the problem ofcollecting complete sets of example sentences for averb.
In general, a corpus of tagged sentences i in-adequate since it rarely includes negative xamplesand is not guaranteed to exhibit the full range of al-ternations.
In applications where a domain specificcorpus is available (e.g.
the Kant MT project (Mi-tamura et al, 1993)), the full range of relevant alter-nations is more likely.
However, the lack of negativeexamples still poses a problem and would require theproject linguist to create appropriate negative ex-amples or manually adjust the class definitions forfurther differentiation.While I have focused on a lexical research tool,an area I will explore in future work is how clas-sification could be used in grammar writing.
Onetask for which a terminological language is appro-priate is flagging inconsistent rules.
When writingand maintaining a large grammar, inconsistent rulesis one type of grammar writing bug that occurs.
Forexample, the following three rules are inconsistentsince feature1 of NP and feature1 of VP would notunify in rule 1 given the values assigned in 2 and 3.1) S --.
NP VP<NP feature1 > = <VP feature1 >2) NP ~ det N<N feature1 > = +<NP> = <N>3) VP --* V<V feature1 > = -<VP> ~ <V>5 Conc lus ionI have shown how a terminological language, suchas Classic, can be used to manage lexical seman-tics data during analysis with two minor exten-sions.
First, a test to identify LEGAL-LINKINGs isnecessary since this cannot be directly expressedin the language and second, set membership tests,have-instances-of and have-no-instances-ofare necessary since this type of expressiveness isnot provided in Classic.
While the solution of sev-eral knowledge acquisition issues would result in afriendlier tool for a linguistics researcher, the toolstill performs a useful function.ReferencesDamaris M. Ayuso, Varda Shaked, and RalphWeischedel.
1987.
An environment for acquir-ing semantic information.
In Proceedings of 25thACL, pages 32-40.Po3nald J. Brachman and James Schmolze.
1991.
Anoverview of the KL-ONE knowledge representationsystem.
Cognitive Science, 9:171-216.Ronald J. Brachman, Deborah L. McGuinness, Pe-ter F. Patel-Schneider, and Lori A. Resnik.
1991.Living with CLASSIC: When and how to use aEL-ONE-like language.
In John F. Sowa, editor,Principles of Semantic Networks, pages 401-456.Morgan Kaufmann, San Mateo, CA.Gerrit Burkert.
1995.
Lexical semantics and ter-minological knowledge representation.
In PatrickSaint-Dizier and Evelyne Viegas, editors, Compu-tational Lezical Semantics.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Premkumar Devanbu and Diane J. Litman.
1991.Plan-based terminological reasoning.
In James F.Allen, Richard Fikes, and Erik Sandewall, edi-tors, KR '91: Principles of Knowledge Representa-tion and Reasoning, pages 128-138.
Morgan Kauf-mann, San Mateo, CA.K.
L. Hale and S. J. Keyser.
1987.
A view fromthe middle.
Center for Cognitive Science, MIT.Lexicon Project Working Papers 10.B.
Levin.
1993.
English verb classes and alterna-tions: a preliminary investigation.
University ofChicago Press.T.
Mitamura, E. Nyberg, and J. Carbonell.
1993.Automated corpus analysis and the acquisition oflarge, multi-lingual knowledge bases for MT.
InProceedings of TMI-93.William A.
Woods and James G. Schmolze.
1992.The EL-ONE family.
In Fritz Lehmann, editor, Se-mantic Networks in Artificial Intelligence, pages133-177.
Pergamon Press, Oxford.368
