Resolving Anaphors in Embedded SentencesSa l iha  AzzamUn ivers i ty  of  Sheff ieldDepar tment  of Computer  Sc ienceRegent  Cour t211 Por tobe l lo  S t reetSheff ield S1 4DP U.K.S.
Azzam~dcs.
shef.
ac.
ukAbst ractWe propose an Mgorithm to resolveanaphors, tackling mainly the problem ofintrasentential ntecedents.
We base ourmethodology on the fact that such an-tecedents are likely to occur in embeddedsentences.
Sidner's focusing mechanism isused as the basic algorithm in a more com-plete approach.
The proposed algorithmhas been tested and implemented as a partof a conceptual analyser, mainly to pro-cess pronouns.
Details of an evaluation aregiven.1 In t roduct ionIntrasentential ntecedents, i.e., antecedents occur-ring in the same sentence as the anaphor, are a cru-cial issue for the anaphora resolution method.
Themain problem is to determine the constraints thatintrasentential phrases must respect in anaphoric re-lations.
These constraints are used to determine re-lations between a given anaphor and its antecedents.Until now, this kind of constraint has been tackledmainly in terms of syntactic aspects, see (Lappin andLeass, 1994) (Merlo, 1993) and (Hobbs, 1985).
Wepropose to consider new kinds of criteria that com-bine semantic restrictions with sentence structure.One of these criteria is, for example, the wayin which the verb meaning influences the sentencestructure, then the way in which the sentence struc-ture influences the anaphoric relations between in-trasentential phrases.
The structure we studied isthe embedded sentence structure.
Indeed, an im-portant assumption we have made is that embeddedsentences favour the occurrence of intrasentential n-tecedents.
We exploit the focusing mechanism pro-posed by Sidner (Sidner, 1979) (Sidner, 1981) (Sial-her, 1983) extending and refining her algorithms.The algorithm is designed for anaphors generally,even if we focus mainly on pronouns in this paper.Indeed, the distinction between different kinds ofanaphors is made at the level of anaphor interpreta-tion rules.
These resolution rule aspects will not bedeveloped here; though they have been developed inthe literature, e.g., see (Carter, 1987), and (Sidner,1981) (Sidner, 1983).
We focus more on the mecha-nisms that handle these different kinds of rules.We first present how intrasentential ntecedentsoccur in embedded sentences.
We recall the mainideas of the focusing approach, then expand onthe main hypotheses which led the design of theanaphora resolution algorithm.2 In t rasentent ia l  Antecedents2.1 Embedded sentences and elementaryeventsAn embedded sentence contains either more thanone verb or a verb and derivations of other verbs(see sentence 1 with verbs said and forming).1) Three of the world's leading advertis-ing groups, Agence Havas S.A. of France,Young & Rubicam of the U.S. and DentsuInc.
of Japan, said they are forming aglobal advertising joint venture.Broadly speaking embedded sentences concern morethan one fact.
In sentence 1 there is the fact of sayingsomething and that of forming a joint venture.
Wecall such a fact an elementary event (EE hereafter).Thus an embedded sentence will contain several EEs.Factors that influence embedded sentences aremainly semantic features of verbs.
For examplethe verb to say, that takes a sentence complementfavours an introduction of a new fact, i.e., "to saysomething", and the related fact.
There are otherclasses of verbs such as want to, hope that, and soon.
In the following, subordinate phrases, like rel-ative or causal sentences, will be also considered asembedded ones.2.2 Embedded sentences withintrasentential antecedentsFirst of all, we will distinguish the Possessive, Recip-rocal and Reflexive pronouns (PRR hereafter) fromthe other pronouns (non-PRR hereafter).263On the basis of 120 articles, of 4 sentences on av-erage, containing 332 pronouns altogether, we madethe following assumption (1):Assumption: non-PRR pronouns can have in-trasentential antecedents, only if these pro-nouns occur in an embedded sentence.The statistics below show that of 262 non-PRRpronouns, there are 244 having intrasentential n-tecedents, all of which occur in embedded sentencesand none in a "simple" sentence.
The remaining 18non-PRR pronouns have intersentential antecedents.Pronouns 332non-PRR 262With intrasentential ntecedents 244in an embedded sentenceWith intrasentential in a simple 0sentenceWith intersentential ntecedents 18Our assumption means that, while the PRR pro-nouns may find their antecedents in an non embed-ded sentence (e.g., sentences 2 and 3) the non-PRRpronouns can not.2) Vulcan made i~s initial Investment inTelescan in May, 1992.3) The agencies HCM and DYR are ~hem-selves joint ventures.Without jumping to conclusions, we cannot avoidmaking a parallel with the topological relations de-fined in the binding theory (Chomsky, 1980), be-tween two coreferring phrases in the syntactic treelevel.
Assumption 1 redefines these relations in aninformal and less rigorous way, at the semantic level,i.e., considering semantic parameters uch as thetype of verbs that introduce mbedded sentences.2.3 Using Sidner's Focusing ApproachTo resolve anaphors one of the most suitable xistingapproaches when dealing with anaphor issues in aconceptual analysis process is the focusing approachproposed by Sidner.
However, this mechanism isnot suitable for intrasentential cases.
We proposeto exploit its main advantages in order to build ouranaphora resolution mechanism extending it to dealalso with intrasentential ntecedents.We describe the main elements of the focusing ap-proach that are necessary to understand our method,without going into great detail, see (Sidner, 1979)(Sidner, 1981) (Sidner, 1983).
Sidner proposed amethodology, modelling the way "focus" of attentionand anaphor esolution influence one another.
Us-ing pronouns reflects what the speaker has focusedon in the previous entence, so that the focus is thatphrase which the pronouns refer to.
The resolutionis organised through the following processes:264?
The expected focus algorithm that selects aninitial focus called the "expected focus".
Thisselection may be "confirmed" or "rejected" insubsequent sentences.
The expected focus isgenerally chosen on the basis of the verb seman-tic categories.
There is a preference in termsof thematic position: the "theme" (as used byGruber and Anderson, 1976 for the notion ofthe object case of a verb) is the first, followedby the goal, the instrument and the location or-dered according to their occurrence in the sen-tence; the final item is the agent hat is selectedwhen no other role suits.?
The anaphora interpreter uses the state of thefocus and a set of algorithms associated witheach anaphor type to determine which elementof the data structures is the antecedent.
Eachalgorithm is a filter containing several interpre-tation rules (IR).Each IR in the algorithm appropriate to ananaphor suggests one or several antecedents de-pending on the focus and on the anaphor type.?
An evaluation of the proposed antecedents iperformed using different kinds of criteria (syn-tax, semantics, inferential, etc.)?
The focusing algorithm makes use of data struc-tures, i.e., the focus registers that represent thestate of the focus: the current focus (CF) repre-sentation, alternate focus list (AFL) that con-tains the other phrases of the sentence and thefocus stack (FS).
A parallel structure to the CFis also set to deal with the agentive pronouns.The focusing algorithm updates the state of thefocus after each sentence anaphor (except thefirst sentence).
After the first sentence, it con-firms or rejects the predicted focus taking intoaccount the results of anaphor interpretation.In the case of rejection, it determines whichphrase is to move into focus.This is a brief example (Sidner 1983) :a Alfred and Zohar liked to play baseball.b They played it every day after school before din-ner.c After lheir game, Alfred and Zohar had icecream cones.d They tasted really good.?
In a) the expected focus is "baseball" (thetheme)?
In b) "it" refers to "baseball" (CF).
"they"refers to Alfred and Zohar (AF)?
The focusing algorithm confirms the CF.?
In d) "they" refers to "ice cream cones" in AFL.?
The focusing algorithm decides that since noanaphor efers to the CF, the CF is stacked and"ice cream cones" is the new CF (focus move-ment).We call a basic focusing cycle the cycle that in-cludes :?
the focusing algorithm?
followed by the interpretation of anaphors,?
then by the evaluation of the proposed an-tecedents.2.4 What needs to be improved in thefocusing approach?2.4.1 Intrasentential antecedentsThe focusing approach always prefers the previ-ous sentences' entities as antecedents o the currentsentences.
In fact only previous sentence ntitiesare present in the focus registers.
Thus phrases ofthe current sentence can not be proposed as an-tecedents.
This problem has already been under-lined, see (Carter, 1987) in particular who pro-posed augmenting the focus registers with the en-tities of the current sentence.
For example in sen-tence 4 while the focus algorithm would proposeonly "John" as an antecedent for "him", in Carter'smethod "Bill" will also be proposed.4) John walked into the room.
He told Billsomeone wanted to see him.2.4.2 Initial AnaphorsThe focusing mechanism fails in the expected fo-cus algorithm when encountering anaphors occur-ring in the first sentence of a text, which we callinitial anaphors, such as They in sentence (1).
Theproblem with initial anaphors is that the focus reg-isters cannot be initialised or may be wrongly filledif there are anaphors inside the first sentence of thetext.
It is clear that taking the sentence in its classi-cal meaning as the unit of processing in the focusingapproach, is not suitable when sentences are embed-ded.We will focus on the mechanisms and algorithmicaspects of the resolution (how to fill the registers,how to structure algorithms, etc.)
and not on therule aspects, like how IRs decide to choose Bill andnot John (sentence 4).3 Our  So lu t ionAs stated above, embedded sentences include sev-eral elementary events (EEs).
EEs are representedas conceptual entities in our work.
We considerthat such successive EEs involve the same contextthat is introduced by several successive short sen-tences.
Moreover, our assumption states that whennon-PRR anaphors have intrasentential ntecedents,they occur in embedded sentences.
Starting withthese considerations, the algorithm is governed bythe hypotheses expanded below.3.1 Main hypothesesFirst hypothesis : EE is the unit of processing inthe basic focusing cycle.An EE is the unit of processing in our resolution al-gorithm instead of the sentence.
The basic focusingcycle is applied on each EE in turn and not sentenceby sentence.
Notice that a simple sentence coincideswith its EE.Second hypothes is  : The "initial" EE of a wellformed first sentence does not contain non-PRRpronouns just as an initial simple sentence can-not.For example, in the splitting of sentence 1 into twoEEs (see below), EEl  does not contain non-PRRpronouns because it is the initial EE of the wholediscourse.EEl)  '?rhree of the world's leading adver-tising groups, Agence I-Iavas S.A. of France,Young & Rubicam of the U.S. and DentsuInc.
of Japan, said"EE2) "they are forming a global advertis-ing joint venture.
"Third hypothesis : PRR pronouns require specialtreatment.PRR could refer to intrasentential ntecedents insimple sentences (such as in those of sentences 3 and4).
An initial EE could then contain an anaphor ofthe PRR type.
Our approach is to add a specialphase that resolves first the PRRs occurring in theinitial EE before applying the expected focusing al-gorithm on the same initial EE.
In all other cases,PRRs are treated equally to other pronouns.This early resolution relies on the fact that thePRR pronouns may refer to the agent, as in sentence3, as well as to the complement phrases.
Howeverthe ambiguity will not be huge at this first level ofthe treatment.
Syntactic and semantic features caneasily be used to resolve these anaphors.
This reliesalso on the fact that the subject of the initial EEcannot be a pronoun (second hypothesis).Having mentioned this particular case of PRR ininitial EE, we now expand on the whole algorithmof resolution.3.2 The AlgorithmIn the following, remember that what we called thebasic focusing cycle is the following successive steps?
applying the resolution rules,?
applying the focusing algorithm, i.e., updatingthe focus registers?
the evaluation of the proposed antecedents foreach anaphor.265The algorithm is based on the decomposition ofthe sentence into EEs and the application of the ba-sic focusing cycle on each EE in turn and not sen-tence by sentence.The complete steps are given below (see also figure1):Step  1 Split the sentence, i.e., its semantic repre-sentation, into EEs.Step 2 Apply the expected focus algorithm to thefirst EE.S tep  3 Perform the basic focusing cycle for everyanaphor of all the EEs of the current sentence.S tep  4 Perform a collective valuation (i.e., evalu-ation that involves all the anaphors of the sen-tence), when all the anaphors of the current sen-tence are processed.Step 5 Process the next sentence until all the sen-tences are processed:?
split the sentence into EEs?
apply Step 3 then Step 4.F~rst Sentence1Sentence Splitting Algorithm \[Next EEI SentenceSplittingAlgorith~rExpected Focus Algorithm \[I\[ Interpretation of each Anaphor \]lEvaluation fthe proposed antecedents I1|Next EE \[ No more EEsNex~t  Collective Evaluation fthe Antecedents \[!Sentence | No more sentencesBasicFocusingCycleFigure 1: The AlgorithmMain Results :1.
Intrasentential ntecedents are taken into ac-count when applying the focusing algorithm.For example, in sentence 1, the intrasententialantecedent Bill will be taken into account, be-cause EEl  would be processed beforehand bythe expected focusing algorithm.2.
The problem of initial anaphors is then re-solved.
The expected focusing algorithm is ap-plied only on the initial EE which must not con-tain anaphors.3.3 Examples and resultsTo illustrate the algorithm, let's consider the follow-ing sentence :Lafarge Coppee said it would buy 10 per-cent in National Gypsum, the number twoplasterboard company in the US, a pur-chase which allows it to be present on theworld's biggest plasterboard market.At the conceptual level, there are 3 EEs.
They areinvolved respectively by the said, buy, and allowsverbs.
They correspond respectively to the followingsurface sentences:EEl  "Lafarge Coppee said"EE2 "it would buy 10 percent in National Gypsum,the number two plasterboard company in theUS"EE3 "a purchase which allows it to be present on theworld's biggest plasterboard market.
"Consider the algorithm :?
the expected focusing algorithm is applied tothe first EE, EEl ,  which contains non-PRRanaphors.?
the other phases of the algorithm, i.e., the basicfocusing cycle, are applied to the subsequentEEs :- EE2 contains only one pronoun it, which isresolved by the basic focusing cycle- it in EE3 will be resolved in the same way.The anaphora resolution has been implemented asa part of a conceptual analyser (Azzam, 1995a).
Itdealt particularly with pronouns.
It has been testedon a set of 120 news reports.
We made two kindsof algorithm evaluations: the evaluation of the im-plemented procedure and an evaluation by hand.For the implementation the success rate of resolu-tion was 70%.
The main cases of failure are relatedto the non implemented aspects like the treatmentof coordination ambiguities and the appositions, orother anaphoric phenomena, like ellipsis.For the second evaluation which concerns the realevaluation of the approach,i.e., without going intothe practical issues concerning implementation, thesuccess rate was 95%.
The main cases of failure weredue to the cases that were not considered by thealgorithm, like for example the pronouns occurringbefore their antecedents , i.e., cataphors.
Such casesoccur for example in sentences 5 and 6 pointed out266by Hobbs (IIobbs, 1985) to discuss the cases that arenot handled easily in the literature.5) Mary sacked out in his apartment beforeSam could kick her out.6) Girls who he has dated say that Sam ischarming.Our algorithm fails in resolving his in 5, becausethe algorithm searches only for the entities that pre-cede the anaphor in the text.
The same applies forhe in 6.
However improving our algorithm to processclassical cases of cataphors, such as that in sentence6, should not require major modifications, only achange in the order in which the EEs are searched.For example, to process pronouns of the sentence6 split into two EES (see below), the algorithm mustconsider EE2 before EEl.
This means applying thestep 2 of the algorithm to EE2, then step 3 to EEl.The sentence 5 should require specific treatment,though.EEl) "that Sam is charming"EE2) "Girls who he has dated say"IIobbs also pointed out the cases of "picture noun"examples, as in sentences 7 and 8:7) John saw a picture of him.8) John's father's portrait of him.In 7 our algorithm is successful, i.e., it will not iden-tify him with John because of our previous assump-tion (section 2.2).
However our algorithm would failin 8 because the non-PRR pronoun him could referto John which occurs in the same EE.Notice that Hobbs' (I-Iobbs, 1985) remark that"the more deeply the pronoun is embedded and themore elaborate the construction it occurs in, themore acceptable the non reflexive" is consistent withour assumption.For example in the embedded sentence 9 where ei-ther the reflexive (himself) or non reflexive pronouns(him) may be used, it is more natural to make useof him.9) John claimed that the picture of himhanging in the post office was a fraud.4 The  Conceptua l  Leve lWe comment here on the main aspects of the con-ceptual analysis that are related to the anaphoraresolution process.
They concern mainly the way ofsplitting embedded sentences and the problems ofdetermining the theme and of managing the otherambiguities and the several readings.The conceptual analyser's trategy consists of acontinuous tep-by-step translation of the originalnatural language sentences into conceptual struc-tures (CS hereafter).
This translation uses the re-sults of the syntactic analysis (syntactic tree).
It isa progressive substitution of the NL terms locatedin the syntactic tree with concepts and templates ofthe conceptual representation language.
Triggeringrules are evoked by words of the sentence and allowthe activation of well-formed CS templates when thesyntactico-semantic filter is unified with the syntac-tic tree.
The values caught by the filter variablesare the arguments of the CS roles, i.e., they fill theCS roles.
If they are anaphors, they are consideredto be unbound variables and result in unfilled rolesin the CS.
The anaphora resolution aims thereforeat filling the unfilled roles with the correspondingantecedents.4.1 Splitting into EEsThe splitting of a sentence in EE is done on thecorresponding CS.
A minimal CS is a template com-prising a predicate that identifies the basic type ofthe represented event and a set of roles or predicatecases .For example, the sentence "to say that they agreeto form a joint venture" is represented, in a simpli-fied way, with three templates, corresponding to thepredicates:?
move information (from "to say"),?
produce an agreement (from "to agree"),?
produce a joint venture (from "to form").Given that one template at the semantic level repre-sents an elementary event, the splitting is implicitlyalready done when these templates are created in thetriggering phase.
Indeed, the syntactico-semanticfilter of the triggering rules takes into account hesemantic features of words (mainly verbs) for recog-nising in the surface sentence those that are able totrigger an elementary event.4.2 Determining the themeGruber and Anderson characterise the theme as fol-lows: if a verb describes a change to some entity,whether of position, activity, class or possession,then the theme is the changed entity, (Gruber, 1976)and (Anderson, 1977).
As Carter (Carter, 1987)demonstrated, this definition of Gruber and Ander-son is sufficient o apply the focusing mechanism.This assumption is particularly apt when we disposeof a conceptual representation.
Indeed, to deter-mine the thematic roles, we established a set of the-matic rules that affect for a given predicative occur-rence, its thematic functions according to the predi-cate type, the role type and the argument's semanticclass.4.3 Managing other ambiguitiesAn important aspect appears when one designs aconcrete system, namely how to make other dis-ambiguation processes cohabit.
In the concep-tual analyser, the general disambiguation module(GDM) deals with other ambiguities, like preposi-tional phrase attachment.
It coordinates the treat-267ment of different kinds of ambiguities.
This is nec-essary because the conceptual structures (CS) onwhich the rules are performed could be incompletebecause of other types of ambiguities not being re-solved.
For example, if the CF of the sentence isa PP object that is not attached yet in the CS thethematic rules fail to fill the CF.
The GDM ensuresthat every disambiguation module intervenes onlyif previous ambiguities have already been resolved.The process of co-ordinating ambiguity processing isfully expanded in (Azzam, 1995b).4.4 Mult ip le readingsWhen dealing with ambiguities, another importantaspect is managing multiple readings.
At a certainpoint when the GDM calls the anaphora module todeal with a given anaphor, the status of the concep-tual analysis could be charaeterised bythe followingparameters :?
The set of conceptual structures for the currentreading Ri on which the resolution isperformed,given that several readings could arise from pre-vious ambiguity processing.?
The set of conceptual structures of the currentsentence Si where the anaphor occurs;?
The set of conceptual structures of the currentelementary event EEi where the anaphor occursafter the Si splitting.?
The state of the focus (content of the registers),SFiThe main assumption is that the anaphora resolu-tion algorithm always applies to a single state, (Ri,Si , EEi, SFi) when resolving a given anaphor (Step3):a If several antecedents are still possible after theindividual evaluation of the anaphor, Ri is thenduplicated, in Rij, as many times as there arepossibilities.b When performing the collective evaluation ofall Si anaphors, every inconsistent Rij is sup-pressed.c The result is a set of readings (Rij, Sj , EEj,SFi).5 ConclusionWe have proposed a methodology to resolveanaphors occurring in embedded sentences.
Themain idea of the methodology is the use of otherkinds of restrictions between the anaphor and its an-tecedents han the syntactic ones.
We demonstratedthat anaphors with intrasentential antecedents areclosely related to embedded sentences and weshowed how to exploit this data to design theanaphora resolution methodology.
Mainly, we ex-ploited Sidner's focusing mechanism, refining theclassical unit of processing, that is the sentence, tothat of the elementary event.
The algorithm hasbeen implemented (in Common Lisp, Sun Spare) todeal with pronouns as a part of a deep analyser.
Themain advantages of the proposed algorithm is thatit is independent from the knowledge representationlanguage used and the deep understanding approachin which it is integrated.
Thus, it could be set up inany conceptual nalyser, as long as a semantic rep-resentation of the text is available.
Moreover Sid-ner's approach does not impose its own formalisms(syntactic or semantic) for its application.
The im-provement of the proposed algorithm requires deal-ing with special cases of anaphors uch as cataphorsand also with specific cases which are not easily han-dled in the literature.
For example, we saw that asolution to processing cataphors could be to recon-sider the order in which the conceptual structures(elementary events beforehand) are searched.6 AcknowledgementsThis work has been supported by the Euro-pean Community Grant LE1-2238 (AVENTINUSproject).ReferencesAnderson, S.R.
1977.
Formal syntax.
In Wasowand Akmajian, editors, Comment on the paper byWasow in Culicover.
Academic Press, pages 361-376.Azzam, Saliha.
1995a.
Computation of Ambiguities(Anaphors and PPs) in NL texts.
CLAM : Theprototype.
Ph.D. thesis, Paris Sorbonne Univer-sity.Azzam, Saliha.
1995b.
Anaphors, pps and disam-biguation process for conceptual nalysis.
In 14thInternational Joint Conference on Artificial In-telligence (IJCAI'95).
San Mateo (CA): MorganKaufmann.Carter, David.
1987.
Interpreting Anaphors in nat-ural language texts.
Chichester : Ellis Horwood.Gruber, J.S.
1976.
Lezical structures in syntax andsemantics.
North-Holland.Hobbs, Jerry.
1985.
Resolving pronoun references.In B. Grosz K. Sparck-Jones B. Webber, editor,Readings in Natural Language, volume 44.
MorganKaufmann Publishers Los Altos California, pages311-338.Lappin, S. and H.J.
Leass.
1994.
An algorithm forpronominal anaphora resolution.
ComputationalLinguistics, 20:535-561.Merlo, P. 1993.
For an incremental computation ofintrasentential coreference.
In the 13th Interna-tional Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence(IJCAI'93), pages 1216-1221.
San Mateo (CA):Morgan Kaufmann.268Sidner, C. 1979.
Toward a computation of in-trasentential coreference.
Technical Report TR-537, MIT.
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.Sidner, C. 1981.
Focusing for interpretation of pro-nouns.
American Journal of Computational Lin-guistics, 7:217-231.Sidner, C. 1983.
Focusing in the comprehensionof definite anaphora.
In Brady.
M and BerwickR.C, editors, Computational Models of Discourse.Cambridge (MA) : The MIT Press.269
