A Prosodic Analysis of Discourse Segments inDirection- Giving MonologuesJulia HirschbergAT&T Laboratories, 2C-409600 Mountain AvenueMurray Hill, NJ 07974Christine H. Nakatani*Harvard University33 Oxford StreetCambridge, MA 02138Abst rac tThis paper reports on corpus-based researchinto the relationship between intonational vari-ation and discourse structure.
We examine theeffects of speaking style (read versus ponta-neous) and of discourse segmentation method(text-alone versus text-and-speech) on the na-ture of this relationship.
We also comparethe acoustic-prosodic features of initial, me-dial, and final utterances in a discourse seg-ment.1 I n t roduct ionThis paper presents empirical support for the as-sumption long held by computational linguists, thatintonation can provide valuable cues for discourseprocessing.
The relationship between intonationalvariation and discourse structure has been exploredin a new corpus of direction-giving monologues.
Weexamine the effects of speaking style (read versusspontaneous) and of discourse segmentation method(text-alone versus text-and-speech) on the nature ofthis relationship.
We also compare the acoustic-prosodic features of initial, medial, and final utter-ances in a discourse segment.
A better understand-ing of the role of intonation in conveying discoursestructure will enable improvements in the natural-ness of intonational variation in text-to-speech sys-tems as well as in algorithms for recognizing dis-course structure in speech-understanding systems.2 Theoret i ca l  and  Empi r i ca lFoundat ionsIt has long been assumed in computational lin-guistics that discourse structure plays an impor-tant role in Natural Language Understanding taskssuch as identifying speaker intentions and resolvinganaphoric reference.
Previous research has found*The second author was partially supported by NSFGrants No.
IRI-90-09018, No.
IRI-93-08173, and No.CDA-94-01024 at Harvard University and by AT&T BellLaboratories.that discourse structural information can be inferredfrom orthographic cues in text, such as paragraph-ing and punctuation; from linguistic cues in textor speech, such as cue PHI~.ASES 1 (Cohen, 1984;Reichman, 1985; Grosz and Sidner, 1986; Passon-neau and Litman, 1993; Passonneau and Litman,to appear) and other lexical cues (Hinkelman andAllen, 1989); from variation in referring expres-sions (Linde, 1979; Levy, 1984; Grosz and Sidner,1986; Webber, 1988; Song and Cohen, 1991; Passon-neau and Litman, 1993), tense, and aspect (Schu-bert and Hwang, 1990; Song and Cohen, 1991);from knowledge of the domain, especially for task-oriented iscourses (Grosz, 1978); and from speakerintentions (Carberry, 1990; Litman and Hirschberg,1990; Lochbaum, 1994).
Recent methods for auto-matic recognition of discourse structure from texthave incorporated thesaurus-based and other in-formation retrieval techniques to identify changesin topic (Morris and Hirst, 1991; Yarowsky, 1991;Iwafiska et al, 1991; Hearst, 1994; Reynar, 1994).Parallel investigations on prosodic/acoustic cuesto discourse structure have investigated the contri-butions of features uch as pitch range, pausal du-ration, amplitude, speaking rate, and intonationalcontour to signaling topic change.
Variation in pitchrange has often been seen as conveying 'topic struc-ture' in discourse.
Brown et al (1980) found thatsubjects typically started new topics relatively highin their pitch range and finished topics by com-pressing their range.
Silverman (1987) found thatmanipulation of pitch range alone, or in conjunc-tion with pausal duration between utterances, facil-itated the disambiguation f ambiguous topic struc-tures.
Avesani and Vayra (1988) also found variationin pitch range in professional recordings which ap-peared to correlate with topic structure, and Ayers(1992) found that pitch range correlates with hierar-chical topic structure more closely in read than spon-taneous conversational speech.
Duration of pausebetween utterances or phrases has also been identi-1 Also called DISCOURSE MARKERS or DISCOURSE PAR-TICLES, these are items uch as now, first, and by the way,which explicitly mark discourse structure.286fled as an indicator of topic structure, with longerpauses marking major topic shifts (Lehiste, 1979;Brown, Currie, and Kenworthy, 1980; Avesani andVayra, 1988; Passonneau and Litman, 1993); Wood-bury (1987), however, found no such correlation inhis data.
Amplitude was also found to increase atthe start of a new topic and decrease at the end(Brown, Currie, and Kenworthy, 1980).
Swerts andcolleagues (1992) found that melody and durationcan pre-signal the end of a discourse unit, in ad-dition to marking the discourse-unit-final utteranceitself.
And speaking rate has been found to cor-relate with structural variation; in several studies(Lehiste, 1980; Brubaker, 1972; Butterworth, 1975)segment-initial utterances exhibited slower rates,and segment-final, faster rates.
Swerts and Osten-dorf (1995), however, report negative rate results.In general, these studies have lacked anindependently-motivated notion of discourse struc-ture.
With few exceptions, they rely on intuitiveanalyses of topic structure; operational definitionsof discourse-level properties (e.g., interpreting para-graph breaks as discourse segment boundaries); or'theory-neutral' discourse segmentations, where sub-jects are given instructions to simply mark changesin topic.
Recent studies have focused on the ques-tion of whether discourse structure itself can be em-pirically determined in a reliable manner, a pre-requisite to investigating linguistic ues to its exis-tence.
An intention-based theory of discourse wasused in (Hirschberg and Grosz, 1992; Grosz andHirschberg, 1992) to identify intonational correlatesof discourse structure in news stories read by aprofessional speaker.
Discourse structural elementswere determined by experts in the Grosz and Sidner(1986) theory of discourse structure, based on eithertext alone or text and speech.
This study revealedstrong correlations of aspects of pitch range, ampli-tude, and timing with features of global and localstructure for both segmentation methods.
Passon-neau and Litman (to appear) analyzed correlationsof pause, as well as cue phrases and referential re-lations, with discourse structure; their segmenterswere asked to identify speakers' communicative "ac-tions".
The present study addresses i sues of speak-ing style and segmentation method while exploringin more detail than previous tudies the prosodic pa-rameters that characterize initial, medial, and finalutterances in a discourse segment.3 Methods3.1 The Boston Directions CorpusThe current investigation f discourse and intonationis based on analysis of a corpus of spontaneous andread speech, the Boston Directions Corpus.
2 This2The Boston Directions Corpus was designed and col-lected in collaboration with Barbara Grosz.corpus comprises elicited monologues produced bymultiple non-professional speakers, who were givenwritten instructions to perform a series of nine in-creasingly complex direction-giving tasks.
Speakersfirst explained simple routes uch as getting from onestation to another on the subway, and progressedgradually to the most complex task of planning around-trip journey from Harvard Square to severalBoston tourist sights.
Thus, the tasks were de-signed to require increasing levels of planning com-plexity.
The speakers were provided with variousmaps, and could write notes to themselves a  well astrace routes on the maps.
For the duration of theexperiment, he speakers were in face-to-face con-tact with a silent partner (a confederate) who tracedon her map the routes described by the speakers.The speech was subsequently orthographically tran-scribed, with false starts and other speech errors re-paired or omitted; subjects returned several weeksafter their first recording to read aloud from tran-scriptions of their own directions.3.2 Acoustic-Prosodic AnalysisFor this paper, the spontaneous and read recordingsfor one male speaker were acoustically analyzed; fun-damental frequency and energy were calculated us-ing Entropic speech analysis oftware.
The prosodictranscription, a more abstract representation f theintonational prominences, phrasing, and melodiccontours, was obtained by hand-labeling.
We em-ployed the ToBI standard for prosodic transcription(Pitrelli, Beckman, and Hirschberg, 1994), whichis based upon Pierrehumbert's theory of Ameri-can English intonation (Pierrehumbert, 1980).
TheToBI transcription provided us with a breakdownof the speech sample into minor or INTERMEDIATEPHRASES (Pierrehumbert, 1980; Beckman and Pier-rehumbert, 1986).
This level of prosodic phraseserved as our primary unit of analysis for measur-ing both speech and discourse properties.
The por-tion of the corpus we report on consists of 494 and552 intermediate phrases for read and spontaneousspeech, respectively.3.3 Discourse Segmentat ionIn our research, the Grosz and Sidner (1986) the-ory of discourse structure, hereafter G&S, providesa foundation for segmenting discourses into con-stituent parts.
According to this model, at leastthree components ofdiscourse structure must be dis-tinguished.
The utterances composing the discoursedivide into segments that may be embedded rela-tive to one another.
These segments and the em-bedding relationships between them form the LIN-GUISTIC STRUCTURE.
The embedding relationshipsreflect changes in the ATTENTIONAL STATE, the dy-namic record of the entities and attributes that aresalient during a particular part of the discourse.Changes in linguistic structure, and hence atten-287tional state, depend on the discourse's INTENTIONALSTRUCTURE; this structure comprises the intentionsor DISCOURSE SEGMENT PURPOSES (DSPs) under-lying the discourse and relations between DSPs.Two methods of discourse segmentation were em-ployed by subjects who had expertise in the G~:Stheory.
Following Hirschberg and Grosz (1992),three subjects labeled from text alone (group T) andthree labeled from text and speech (group S).
Otherthan this difference in input modality, all subjectsreceived identical written instructions.
The text foreach task was presented with line breaks correspond-ing to intermediate phrase boundaries (i.e., ToBIBREAK INDICES of level 3 or higher (Pitrelli, Beck-man, and Hirschberg, 1994)).
In the instructions,subjects were essentially asked to analyze the lin-guistic and intentional structures by segmenting thediscourse, identifying the DSPs, and specifying thehierarchical relationships among segments.4 Resul ts4.1 Discourse Segmentat ion4.1.1 Raw AgreementLabels on which all labelers in the group agreedare termed the CONSENSUS LABELS.
3 The consen-sus labels for segment-initial (SBEG), segment-final(SF), and segment-medial (SCONT, defined as nei-ther SBEG nor SF) phrase labels are given in Ta-ble 1.
4Table h Percentage of Consensus Labels bySegment Boundary TypeSBEG SF SCONT TotalREAD (N=494)Text alone (T) 14% 11% 32% 57%Text & Speech (S) 18% 14% 49% 80%SPON (N=552)Text alone (T) 13% 10% 40% 61%Text & Speech (S) 15% 13% 54% 81%Note that group T and group S segmentationsdiffer significantly, in contrast o earlier findings ofttirschberg and Grosz (1992) on a corpus of read-aloud news stories and in support of informal find-ings of Swerts (1995).
Table 1 shows that groupS produced significantly more consensus boundariesfor both read (p<.001, X=58.8, df=l) and spon-taneous (p<.001, X=55.4, df=l) speech than did3Use of consensus labels is a conservative measure oflabeler agreement.
Results in (Passonneau and Litman,1993) and (Swerts, 1995) show that with a larger num-ber of labelers, notions of BOUNDARY STRENGTH can beemployed.4Consensus percentages for the three types in Table 1do not necessarily sum to the total consensus agreementpercentage, since a phrase is both segment-initial ndsegment-final when it makes up a segment by itself.group T. When the read and spontaneous dataare pooled, group S agreed upon significantly moreSBEG boundaries (p<.05, X=4.7, df=l) as well asSF boundaries (p<.05, X=4.4, df=l) than did groupT.
Further, it is not the case that text-alone seg-menters imply chose to place fewer boundaries inthe discourse; if this were so, then we would expecta high percentage ofSCONT consensus labels whereno SBEGs or SFs were identified.
Instead, we findthat the number of consensus SCONTs was signifi-cantly higher for text-and-speech labelings than fortext-alone (p<.001, X=49.1, df=l).
It appears thatthe speech signal can help disambiguate among al-ternate segmentations of the same text.
Finally, thedata in Table 1 show that spontaneous speech can besegmented as reliably as its read counterpart, con-trary to Ayer's results (1992).4.1.2 Inter- labeler Reliabi l ityComparisons of inter-labeler reliability, that is,the reproducibility ofa coding scheme given multiplelabelers, provide another perspective on the segmen-tation data.
How best to measure inter-labeler re-liability for discourse segmentation tasks, especiallyfor hierarchical segmentation, is an open researchquestion (Passonneau and Litman, to appear; Car-letta, 1995; Flammia nd Zue, 1995; Rotondo, 1984;Swerts, 1995).
For comparative purposes, we ex-plored several measures proposed in the literature,namely, COCHRAN'S Q and the KAPPA (~) COEF-FICIENT (Siegel and Castellan, 1988).
Cochran's Q,originally proposed in (Hirschberg and Grosz, 1992)to measure the likelihood that similarity among la-belings was due to chance, was not useful in the cur-rent study; all tests of similarity using this metric(pairwise, or comparing all labelers) gave probabil-ity near zero.
We concluded that this statistic didnot serve, for example, to capture the differencesobserved between labelings from text alone versuslabelings from text and speech.Recent discourse annotation studies (Isard andCarletta, 1995; Flammia and Zue, 1995) have mea-sured reliability using the g coefficient, which factorsout chance agreement taking the expected istribu-tion of categories into account.
This coefficient isdefined asPo-  P~1-Pswhere Po represents the observed agreement andPE represents the expected agreement.
Typically,values of .7 or higher for this measure provide ev-idence of good reliability, while values of .8 orgreater indicate high reliability.
Isard and Car-letta (1995) report pairwise a scores ranging from.43 to .68 in a study of naive and expert classifi-cations of types of 'moves' in the Map Task dia-logues.
For theory-neutral discourse segmentationsof information-seeking dialogues, Flammia (Flam-mia and Zue, 1995) reports an average pairwise288of .45 for five labelers and of .68 for the three mostsimilar labelers.An important issue in applying the t~ coefficientis how one calculates the expected agreement us-ing prior distributions of categories.
We first calcu-lated the prior probabilities for our data based sim-ply on the distribution of SBEG versus non-SBEGlabels for all labelers on one of the nine direction-giving tasks in this study, with separate calculationsfor the read and spontaneous versions.
This task,which represented about 8% of the data for bothspeaking styles, was chosen because it was midwayin planning complexity and in length among all thetasks.
Using these distributions, we calculated x co-efficients for each pair of labelers in each conditionfor the remaining eight tasks in our corpus.
Theobserved percentage of SBEG labels, prior distribu-tion for SBEG, average of the pairwise ~ scores, andstandard eviations for those scores are presented inTable 2.Table 3: Comparison of Weighted AverageCoefficients and Extra for Each ConditionUsing Flammia's MetricREADText aloneText & SpeechSPONText aloneText & Speech% WeightedAverage Low High0.51 .22 .670.70 .48 .870.53 .19 .600.74 .63 1.00Once again, averaged scores of .7 or better fortext-and-speech labelings, for both speaking styles,indicate markedly higher inter-labeler reliabilitythan do scores for text-alone labelings, which av-eraged .51 and .53.Table 2: Comparison of Averaget?
Coefficients for SBEGs% Avg.SBEG P~ a s.d.-READText alone .38 .53 .56 .08Text & Speech .35 .55 .81 .01SPONText alone .39 .52 .63 .04Text & Speech .35 .55 .80 .03The average g scores for group T segmenters indi-cate weak inter-labeler reliability.
In contrast, aver-age t~ scores for group S are .8 or better, indicatinga high degree of inter-labeler reliability.
Thus, ap-plication of this somewhat stricter reliability metricconfirms that the availability of speech critically in-fluences how listeners perceive discourse structure.The calculation of reliability for SBEG versus non-SBEG labeling in effect tests the similarity of lin-earized segmentations and does not speak to the is-sue of how similar the labelings are in terms of hier-archical structure.
F lammia has proposed a methodfor generalizing the use of the g coefficient for hi-erarchical segmentation that gives an upper-boundestimate on inter-labeler agreement.
5 We appliedthis metric to our segmentation data, calculatingweighted averages for pairwise ~ scores averaged foreach task.
Results for each condition, together withthe lowest and highest average ~ scores over thetasks, are presented in Table 3.5Flammia uses a flexible definition of segment matchto calculate pairwise observed agreement: roughly, a seg-ment in one segmentation is matched if both its SBEGand SF correspond to segment boundary locations in theother segmentation.4.2 Intonat ional  Features of  Segments4.2.1 Phrase Classes and FeaturesFor purposes of intonational analysis, we takeadvantage of the high degree of agreement amongour discourse labelers and include in each seg-ment boundary class (SBEG, SF, and SCONT) onlythe phrases whose classification all subjects agreedupon.
We term these the CONSENSUS-LABELEDPHRASES, and compare their features to those of allphrases not in the relevant class (i.e., non-consensus-labeled phrases and consensus-labeled phrases of theother types).
Note that there were one-third fewerconsensus-labeled phrases for text-alone labelingsthan for text-and-speech (see Table 1).
We exam-ined the following acoustic and prosodic features ofSBEG, SCONT, and SF consensus-labeled phrases:f0 maximum and f0 average; 6 rms (energy) max-imum and rms average; speaking rate (measuredin syllables per second); and duration of preced-ing and subsequent silent pauses.
As for the seg-mentation analyses, we compared intonational cor-relates of segment boundary types not only for groupS versus group T, but also for spontaneous versusread speech.
While correlates have been identifiedin read speech, they have been observed in sponta-neous speech only rarely and descriptively.6We calculated f0 maximum in two ways: as simple f0peak within the intermediate phrase and also as f0 max-imum measured at the rms maximum of the sonorantportion of the nuclear-accented syllable in the interme-diate phrase (HIGH F0 in the ToBI framework (Pitrelli,Beckman, and Hirschberg, 1994)).
The latter measureproved more robust, so we report results based on thismetric.
The same applies to measurement of rms maxi-mum.
Average f0 and rms were calculated over the entireintermediate phrase.289Table 4: Acoustic-Prosodic Correlates of Consensus Labelings from Text AloneSBEGReadSponSCONTReadSponMax F0(at HighF0)Avg FO(phrasal)Max RMS(at HighF0)Avg RMS(phrasal)Rate~werlowerSFRead lower lower lower lowerSpon lower ~wer lower lowerPrecedingPauseSubsequentPausehigher higher higher higher longer shorterhigher higher higher higher longer shorterlower** lower** lower shorter ?
shorter ?slower* shorter* shorter ?faster *?
shorter longerfaster ?
shorter longerTable 5: Acoustic-Prosodic Correlates of Consensus Labelings from Text and SpeechSBEGReadSponSCONTReadSponSFReadSponMax F0(at HighF0)higherhigherlowerlowerlowerlowerAvg F0(phrasal)higherhigherlower ?lowerlowerMax RMS(at HighFO)higherhigherlowerlowerAvg RMS \](phrasal)higherhigherlowerRateslower ?lower faster*lower fasterPreceding SubsequentPause Pauselonger shorterlonger shortershorter t shorter tshorter ?
shorter ?shorter longershorter longer4.2.2 G loba l  In tonat iona l  Cor re la tesWe found strong correlations for consensus SBEG,SCONT, and SF phrases for all conditions.
Resultsfor group T are given in Table 4, and for group S, inTable 5.
~Consensus SBEG phrases in all conditions pos-sess significantly higher maximum and average f0,higher maximum and average rms, shorter subse-quent pause, and longer preceding pause.
For con-sensus SCONT phrases, we found some differencesbetween read and spontaneous speech for both la-beling methods.
Features for group T included sig-nificantly lower f0 maximum and average and lowerrms maximum and average for read speech, but onlylower f0 maximum for the spontaneous condition.Group S features for SCONT were identical to groupT except for the absence of a correlation for maxi-mum rms.
While SCONT phrases for both speak-ing styles exhibited significantly shorter precedingand subsequent pauses than other phrases, only thespontaneous condition showed a significantly slowerrate.
For consensus SF phrases, we again found simi-lar patterns for both speaking styles and both label-7T-tests were used to test for statistical significance ofdifference in the means of two classes of phrases.
Resultsreported are significant at the .005 level or better, exceptwhere '*' indicates ignificance at the .03 level or better.Results were calculated using one-tailed t-tests, exceptwhere't' indicates a two-tailed test.ing methods, namely lower f0 maximum and aver-age, lower rms maximum and average, faster speak-ing rate, shorter preceding pauses, and longer sub-sequent pauses.While it may appear somewhat surprising thatresults for both labeling methods match so closely,in fact, correlations for text-and-speech labels pre-sented in Table 5 were almost invariably statisticallystronger than those for text-alone labels presentedin Table 4.
These more robust results for text-and-speech labelings occur even though the data set ofconsensus labels is considerably arger than the dataset of consensus text-alone labelings.4.2.3 Local Intonational CorrelatesWith a view toward automatically segmenting aspoken discourse, we would like to directly clas-sify phrases of all three discourse categories.
ButSCONT and SF phrases exhibit similar prominencefeatures and appear distinct from each other onlyin terms of timing differences.
A second issue iswhether such classification can be done 'on-line.
'To address both of these issues, we made pairwisecomparisons of consensus-labeled phrase groups us-ing measures of relative change in acoustic-prosodicparameters over a local window of two consecutivephrases.
Table 6 presents ignificant findings on rel-ative changes in f0, loudness (measured in decibels),and speaking rate, from prior to current intermedi-290Table 6: Acoustic-Prosodic Change from Preceding Phrase for Consensus Labelings from Text and SpeechSBEG versus SCONTReadSportSCONT versus SFReadSponSBEG versus SFReadSponII Max F0 Change(at HighF0s)Max DB Change(at HighF0s)Rate Changeincrease increaseincrease increaseincrease* increase*increaseincrease increaseincrease increase decrease* tate phrase, sFirst, note that SBEG is distinguished from bothSCONT and SF in terms of f0 change and db changefrom prior phrase; that is, while SBEG phrases aredistinguished on a variety of measures from all otherphrases (including non-consensus-labeled phrases) inTable 5, this table shows that SBEGs are also distin-guishable directly from each of the other consensus-labeled categories.
Second, while SCONT and SFappear to share prominence features in Table 5, Ta-ble 6 reveals differences between SCONT and SF inamount of f0 and db change.
Thus, in addition tolending themselves to on-line processing, local mea-sures may also capture valuable prominence cues todistinguish between segment-medial nd segment-final phrases.5 Conc lus ionAlthough this paper reports results from only a sin-gle speaker, the findings are promising.
We havedemonstrated that a theory-based method for dis-course analysis can provide reliable segmentations ofspontaneous a  well as read speech.
In addition, theavailability of speech in the text-and-speech labelingmethod led to significantly higher reliability scores.The stronger correlations found for intonational fea-tures of the text-and-speech labelings suggest notonly that discourse labelers make use of prosody intheir analyses, but also that obtaining such data canlead to more robust modeling of the relationship be-tween intonation and discourse structure.The following preliminary results can be con-sidered for incorporation in such a model.
First,segment-initial utterances differ from medial and fi-8We present results only for text-and-speech label-ings; results for text-alone were quite similar.
Note that'increase' means that there is a significantly greater in-crease in f0, rms, or rate from prior to current phrase forcategory 1 than for category 2 of the comparison, and'decrease' means that there is a significantly greater de-crease.
T-tests again were one-tailed unless marked byt, and significance l vels were .002 or better except hosemarked by *, which were at .01 or better.nal utterances in both prominence and rhythmicproperties.
Segment-medial nd segment-final ut-terances are distinguished more clearly by rhythmicfeatures, primarily pause.
Finally, all correlationsfound for global parameters can also be computedbased on relative change in acoustic-prosodic param-eters in a window of two phrases.Ongoing research is addressing the developmentof automatic lassification algorithms for discourseboundary type; the role of prosody in conveying hier-archical relationships among discourse segments; in-dividual speaker differences; and discourse segmen-tation methods that can be used by naive subjects.Re ferencesAvesani, Cinzia and Mario Vayra.
1988.
Dis-corso, segmenti di discorso e un' ipotesi sull' in-tonazione.
In Corso eli stampa negli Atti del Con-vegno Inlernazionale "Sull'Interpunzione', Val-leechi, Firenze, Maggio, pages 8-53.Ayers, Gayle M. 1992.
Discourse functions of pitchrange in spontaneous and read speech.
Paper pre-sented at the Linguistic Society of America An-nual Meeting.Beckman, Mary and Janet Pierrehumbert.
1986.Intonational structure in Japanese and English.Phonology Yearbook, 3:15-70.Brown, G., K. Currie, and J. Kenworthy.
1980.Questions of Intonation.
University Park Press,Baltimore.Brubaker, R. S. 1972.
Rate and pause character-istics of oral reading.
Journal of PsycholinguisticResearch, 1(2):141-147.Butterworth, B.
1975.
Hesitation and semanticplanning in speech.
Journal of PsycholinguisticResearch, 4:75-87.Carberry, Sandra.
1990.
Plan Recognition in Nat-ural Language Dialogue.
MIT Press, CambridgeMA.291Carletta, Jean C. 1996.
Assessing agreement onclassification tasks: the kappa statistic.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 22(2), To appear.Cohen, Robin.
1984.
A computational theory of thefunction of clue words in argument understand-ing.
In Proceedings of the lOth International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics, pages 251-255, Stanford.Flammia, Giovanni and Victor Zue.
1995.
Empir-ical evaluation of human performance and agree-ment in parsing discourse constituents in spokendialogue.
In Proceedings of EUROSPEECH-95,Volume 3, pages 1965-1968.
Madrid.Grosz, B. and J. Hirschberg.
1992.
Some intona-tional characteristics of discourse structure.
InProceedings of the 2nd International Conferenceon Spoken Language Processing, pages 429-432,Banff, October.Grosz, Barbara.
1978.
Discourse analysis.
InD.
Walker, editor, Understanding Spoken Lan-guage.
Elsevier, pages 235-268.Grosz, Barbara J. and Candace L. Sidner.
1986.
At-tention, intentions, and the structure of discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12(3):175-204.Hearst, Marti A.
1994.
Context and Structure inAutomated Full-Text Information Access.
Ph.D.thesis, University of California at Berkeley.
Avail-able as Report No.
UCB/CSD-94/836.Hinkelman, E. and J. Allen.
1989.
Two constraintson speech act ambiguity.
In Proceedings of the27th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, pages 212-219, Vancouver.Hirschberg, J. and B. Grosz.
1992.
Intonationalfeatures of local and global discourse structure.In Proceedings of the Speech and Natural Lan-guage Workshop, pages 441-446, Harriman NY,DARPA, Morgan Kaufmann, February.Isard, Amy and Jean Carletta.
1995.
Transactionand action coding in the map task corpus.
Re-search paper HCRC/RP-65, March, Human Com-munication Research Centre, University of Edin-burgh, Edinburgh.Iwafiska, Lucia, Douglas Appelt, Damaris Ayuso,Kathy Dahlgren, Bonnie Glover Stalls, Ralph Gr-ishman, George Krupka, Christine Montgomery,and Ellen Riloff.
1991.
Computational spects ofdiscourse in the context of Muc-3.
In Proceedingsof the Third Message Understanding Conference(Mac-3), pages 256-282, San Mateo, CA, MorganKaufmann, May.Lehiste, I.
1979.
Perception of sentence andparagraph boundaries.
In B. Lindblom andS.
Oehman, editors, Frontiers of Speech Research.Academic Press, London, pages 191-201.Lehiste, I.
1980.
Phonetic characteristics of dis-course.
Paper presented at the Meeting of theCommittee on Speech Research, Acoustical Soci-ety of Japan.Levy, Elena.
1984.
Communicating Thematic Struc-ture in Narrative Discourse: The Use of ReferringTerms and Gestures.
Ph.D. thesis, The Universityof Chicago, Chicago, June.Linde, C. 1979.
Focus of attention and the choice ofpronouns in discourse.
In T. Givon, editor, Syntaxand Semantics, Vol.
12: Discourse and Syntax.The Academic Press, New York, pages 337-354.Litman, Diane and Julia Hirschberg.
1990.
Dis-ambiguating cue phrases in text and speech.In Proceedings of the 13th International Confer-ence on Computational Linguistics, pages 251-256, Helsinki, August.Lochbaum, Karen.
1994.
Using Collaborative Plansto Model the Intentional Structure of Discourse.Ph.D.
thesis, Harvard University.
Available asTech Report TR-25-94.Morris, J. and G. Hirst.
1991.
Lexical cohesioncomputed by thesaural relations as an indicatorof the structure of text.
Computational Linguis-tics, 17:21-48.Passonneau, R. and D. Litman.
1993.
Feasibility ofautomated iscourse segmentation.
In Proceed-ings of the 31st Annual Meeting of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics, pages 148-155, Columbus.Passonneau, Rebecca J. and Diane J. Litman.
ToAppear.
Empirical analysis of three dimensionsof spoken discourse: Segmentation, coherence andlinguistic devices.
In E. Hovy and D. Scott, ed-itors, Burning Issues in Discourse.
Springer Vet-lag.Pierrehumbert, Janet B.
1980.
The Phonology andPhonetics of English Intonation.
Ph.D. thesis,Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Septem-ber.
Distributed by the Indiana University Lin-guistics Club.Pitrelli, John, Mary Beckman, and Julia Hirschberg.1994.
Evaluation of prosodic transcription label-ing reliability in the ToBI framework.
In Proceed-ings of the 3rd International Conference on Spo-ken Language Processing, volume 2, pages 123-126, Yokohama.Reichman, R. 1985.
Getting Computers to Talk LikeYou and Me: Discourse Context, Focus, and Se-mantics.
Bradford.
The Massachusetts Instituteof Technology, Cambridge.Reynar, Jeffrey C. 1994.
An automatic method offinding topic boundaries.
In Proceedings of theStudent Session of the 32nd Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, pages331-333.
Las Cruces, NM.292Rotondo, John A.
1984.
Clustering analysis of sub-jective partitions of text.
Discourse Processes,7:69-88.Schubert, L. K. and C. H. Hwang.
1990.
Picking ref-erence events from tense trees.
In Proceedings ofthe Speech and Natural Language Workshop, pages34-41, Hidden Valley PA. DARPA.Siegel, S. and Jr. Castellan, N. John.
1988.
Non-parametric Statistics for the Behavioral Sciences.McGraw-Hill, New York, second edition.Silverman, K. 1987.
The Structure and Processingof Fundamental Frequency Contours.
Ph.D. the-sis, Cambridge University, Cambridge UK.Song, F. and R. Cohen.
1991.
Tense interpretationin the context of narrative.
In Proceedings of the9th National Conference of the American Associ-ation for Artificial Intelligence, pages 131-136.Swerts, M., R. Gelyukens, and J. Terken.
1992.Prosodic correlates of discourse units in sponta-neous speech.
In Proceedings of the InternationalConference on Spoken Language Processing, pages421-428, Banff, Canada, October.Swerts, Marc.
1995.
Combining statistical and pho-netic analyses of spontaneous discourse segmen-tation.
In Proceedings of the XIIth InternationalCongress of Phonetic Sciences, volume 4, pages208-211, Stockholm, August.Swerts, Marc and Mari Ostendorf.
1995.
Dis-course prosody in human-machine interactions.
InProceedings ESCA Workshop on Spoken DialogueSystems: Theories and Applications, pages 205-208, Visgo, Denmark, May/June.Webber, B.
1988.
Discourse deixis: Reference todiscourse segments.
In Proceedings of the 26thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 113-122, Buffalo.Woodbury, Anthony C. 1987.
Rhetorical struc-ture in a central Alaskan Yupik Eskimo tradi-tional narrative.
In J. Sherzer and A. Woodbury,editors, Native American Discourse: Poetics andRhetoric, pages 176-239, Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge UK.Yarowsky, David.
1991.
Personal communication,December.293
