Transitivity and Foregrounding in News Articles: exper imentsin information retrieval and automatic summaris ingRoder ick  Kay  and  Ruth  Ay le t tIn fo rmat ion  Techno logy  Ins t i tu teUn ivers i ty  of  Sa l fordManchester  M5 4WTUn i ted  K ingdom{rnk ,R .Ay le t t}@i t i .
sa l fo rd .ac .ukAbst rac tThis paper describes an on-going studywhich applies the concept of transitivityto news discourse for text processing tasks.The complex notion of transitivity is de-fined and the relationship between transi-tivity and information foregrounding is ex-plained.
A sample corpus of news articleshas been coded for transitivity.
The corpusis being used in two text processing exper-iments.1 I n t roduct ion2 Definition of TransitivityTransitivity is usually considered to be a property ofan entire clause (Hopper and Thompson, 1980).
Itis, broadly, the notion that an activity is transferredfrom an agent to a patient.
It is therefore inherentlylinked with a clause containing two participants inwhich an action is highly effective.The concept of transitivity has been defined interms of the following parameters:A.
Participants h1B.
Kinesis h1C.
Aspect h1D.
Punctuality h1E.
Volitionality h1F.
Affirmation h1G.
Mode h1H.
Agency h1I.
Affectedness of O h1J.
Individuation of O h1h=high, l=lowEach component of transitivity contributes to theoverall effectiveness or 'intensity' with which an ac-tion is transferred from one participant o another.A.
There must be at least two participants for anaction to be transferred.B.
Transferable actions can be contrasted with non-transferable states, e.g.
he pushed her; he thoughtabout her.C.
An action is either wholly or partially completedaccording to whether it is telic or atelic, e.g.
I playedthe piano; I am playing the piano.D.
Punctual actions have no transitional phase be-tween start and end point, having a greater effectThe basic hypothesis of this study is that the degreeof transitivity associated with a clause indicates thelevel of importance of a clause in a narrative text.For this assumption to form the basis of a practicalimplementation, transitivity must be objectively de-fined and the definition must be able to be processedautomatically.The notion of transitivity clearly has many impli-cations for text processing, in particular informationretrieval and automatic summarising, because it canbe used to grade information in a document accord-ing to importance.
In an information retrieval con-text, it means that a transitivity index could influ-ence a decision about the relevance of a document toa query.
In automatic summarising, it means thatless important information could be sieved accord-ing to transitivity, leaving only the most importantinformation to form the basis of a summary.News discourse was chosen because it is narra-tive based and therefore broadly applicable to thenotion of transitivity.
There has also been exten-sive research in the structural characteristics of thistext type (Duszak, 1995) (Kay and Aylett, 1994)(Bell, 1991).
However, the study poses a challengein the sense that the notion of transitivity has pre-viously been exemplified with relatively simple sen-tences presenting action sequences.
A central ques-tion is how well the concept can be transferred toa domain which, although narrative based, divergesinto commentary and analysis.2 or more participants1 participantactionnon-actiontelicatelicpunctualnon-punctualvolitionalnon-volitionalaffirmativenegativerealisirrealisA high in potencyA low in potency0 totally affected0 not affected0 highly individuated0 non-individuated369on their patients, e.g.
he kicked the door; he openedthe door.E.
An action is more effective if it is volitional, e.g.he bought the present; he forgot the present.F.
An affirmative action has greater transitivity thana negative action, e.g.
he called the boy; he didn'tcall the boy.G.
An action which is realis (occurring in the realworld) is more effective than an action which is ir-realis (occurring in a non-real contingency world),e.g.
they attacked the enemy; they might attack theenemy.H.
Participants high in agency transfer an actionmore effectively than participants low in agency, e.g.he shocked me; the price shocked me.I.
A patient is wholly or partially affected, e.g.
Iwashed the dishes; I washed some of the dishes.J.
Individuation refers to the distinctiveness of theobject from the agent and of the object from its ownbackground.
The following properties contribute tothe individuation of an object.INDIVIDUATED NON-INDIVIDUATEDproper commonhuman, animate inanimateconcrete abstractsingular pluralcount massreferential, definite non-referentialBased on these components, clauses can be clas-sified as more or less transitive.
In English, as awhole, transitivity is indicated by a cluster of fea-tures associated with a clause.The concept of foreground and background infor-mation is based on the idea that in narrative dis-course some parts are more essential than others.Certain sections of a narrative are crucially linkedwith the temporal sequence of events which formthe backbone of a text.
This material is normallyforegrounded.
In contrast, the contextual informa-tion relating to characters and environment is back-grounded.3 T rans i t i v i ty  and  Text  Process ingThe relationship between transitivity and fore-grounding has potential for text processing, in par-ticular, information retrieval and automatic sum-marising.
If it is possible to identify which clausesare central to a text, the information can be used tocontribute to a relevance assessment or as the basisfor a derived summary.3.1 Information RetrievalThe standard model of text retrieval is based on theidentification of matching query/document termswhich are weighted according to their distributionthroughout a text database.
This model has alsobeen enhanced by a number of linguistic techniques:expansion of query/document terms according tothesaurus relations, synonyms, etc.The proposal for this study is to code matchingquery/document terms for the transitivity value ofthe clause in which they occur, as a starting pointfor producing comparative term weights based onlinguistic features.
Terms which are less central toa discourse will, on this basis, be given lower scoresbecause they occur in low transitivity clauses.
Thenet result will be to produce a document rankingorder which more closely represents the importanceof the documents to a user.
There is also potentialfor producing a transitivity index for an entire doc-ument as well as for individual clauses so that thismeasure could also feature in a relevance assessment.3.2 Automatic  SummarisingThe fundamental task in automatic summarising isto identify the most important sections of a text sothat these can be extracted and possibly modified toprovide a summary.
The notion of transitivity pro-vides a measure against which clauses can be scored.The highest scoring clauses, either above a thresholdvalue or on a comparative basis, can then be iden-tified as the basic clauses of a summary.
These caneither be extracted raw or in context with pronom-inal references resolved and any logical antecedentsincluded.
A previous study in this area (Decker,1985) extracted clauses and sentences on the basisof syntactic patterns which broadly correlate withcertain features of transitivity.
The present study fo-cuses on the semantic features of transitivity ratherthan associated syntax.4 Exper imenta l  P rocedureThe feasibility of using transitivity as a tool in textprocessing will be assessed by two experiments us-ing the same corpus.
Clauses in the corpus mustbe hand-coded for transitivity.
The difficulties en-countered in this process will determine the basisfor future automation.
For the information retrievaltask, only the clauses containing query/documentmatching terms will be coded for transitivity.
Forthe automatic summarising experiment all sentenceswithin a text will be coded.For the information retrieval experiment, tenqueries are put to a newspaper database: a demon-stration system running on WAIS (Wide Area Infor-mation Server), carrying two weeks of articles fromthe Times newspaper from 1993 and 1994.
The re-sults of the queries are downloaded in their initialranked order (ranked by a host ranking algorithm)and re-ranked by a serial batch processor written inC+-t-.
The processor identifies the transitivity fea-tures associated with each matching clause and pro-duces a ranked output of documents based on theweights assigned to each clause in which the searchterms occur.
The weights assigned to each clause are370numerically equivalent to the number of transitivityfeatures associated with each clause.
The total tran-sitivity weight for an entire document is the sum ofclause weights normalised by document length.The output dataset consists of a total of 185 newsarticles, an average of 18.5 per batch.
Each set ofarticles is ranked by volunteers.
The articles areranked for their degree of relevance to a query in twoways: on a scale of one to ten; and comparatively, bythe degree of relevance of an article against all otherarticles.
All terms are treated as equal so that dis-crimination between documents is based purely onaccumulative transitivity scores.
The performanceof the ranking technique is evaluated according totwo precision measures: the Spearman rank corre-lation coefficient (rho) and the CRE (Coefficient ofRanking Effectiveness) (Noreault et al , 1977).For the automatic summarising experiment, tenarticles are taken from the corpus at random.
Sum-maries are produced by extracting clauses accordingto transitivity scores.
In the initial implementation,transitivity scores will be equal to the number oftransitivity features associated with the main clauseof each sentence.
The selection of sentences for asummary will be based, initially, on comparativetransitivity scores and a reduction factor which willdetermine the number of sentences selected based onthe length of a document.Summaries will be analysed and assessed by vol-unteers for coverage, in terms of the original text,and comprehensibility as a separate text.
The sum-maries will be compared against summaries of thesame texts compiled by the syntactic technique men-tioned previously and also against summaries con-sisting of the first paragraph of each news article.The study is currently at the end of the codingstage for the information retrieval experiment.guistics, No 2, European Studies Research Insti-tute, University of Salford.P.
Hopper, S. Thompson.
1980.
Transitivity ingrammar in discourse.
Language, 56: 251-299.T.
Noreault, M. Koll, M. McGill.
1977.
Automaticranked output from Boolean searches in SIRE.Journal of the American Society for InformationScience, 27(6): 333-339.ReferencesA.
Bell.
1991.
The language of news media.
BasilBlackwell, OxfordN.
Decker.
1985.
The use of syntactic clues in dis-course processing.
Proceedings of the 23rd meetingof the ACL, pages 315-323.A.
Duszak.
1995.
On variation in news-text pro-totypes: some evidence from English, Polish, andGerman.
Discourse Processes, 19: 465-483.G.
Green.
1979.
Organization, goals and com-prehensibility in narratives: news writing, a casestudy.
Technical Report 132, The Centre for thestudy of Reading, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.R.
Kay, R. Aylett.
1994.
A text grammar for newsreports.
Working papers in Language and Lin-371
