Using textual clues to improve metaphor processingSt6phane FerrariL IMSI -CNRSPO Box  133F-91403 Orsay  cSdex, FRANCEferrar i@l imsi .
f rAbst rac tIn this paper, we propose a textual clue ap-proach to help metaphor detection, in orderto improve the semantic processing of thisfigure.
The previous works in the domainstudied the semantic regularities only, over-looking an obvious set of regularities.
Acorpus-based analysis shows the existenceof surface regularities related to metaphors.These clues can be characterized by syn-tactic structures and lexical markers.
Wepresent an object oriented model for repre-senting the textual clues that were found.This representation is designed to help thechoice of a semantic processing, in terms ofpossible non-literal meanings.
A prototypeimplementing this model is currently un-der development, within an incremental p-proach allowing step-by-step evaluations.
11 In t roduct ionMetaphor is a frequently used figure of speech, re-flecting common cognitive processes.
Most of theprevious works in Natural Language Understanding(NLU) looked for regularities only on the semanticside of this figure, as shown in a brief overview insection 2.
This resulted in complex semantic pro-cessings, not based on any previous robust detec-tion, or requiring large and exhaustive knowledgebases.
Our aim is to provide NLU systems with a setof heuristics for choosing the most adequate seman-tic processing, as well as to give some probabilisticclues for disambiguating the possibly multiple mean-ing representations.A corpus-based analysis we made showed the exis-tence of textual clues in relation with the metaphors.These clues, mostly lexical markers combined withsyntactic structures, are easy to spot, and can pro-vide a first set of detection heuristics.
We propose, in1This work takes part in a research project sponsoredby the AUPELF-UREF (Francophone Agency For Edu-cation and Research)section 3, an object oriented model for representingthese clues and their properties, in order to integratethem in a NLU system.
For each class, attributesgive information for spoting the clues, and, whenpossible, the source and the target of the metaphor,using the results of a syntactic parsing.
A prototype,STK, partially implementing the model, is currentlyunder development, within an incremental pproach.It is Mready used to evaluate the clues relevance.In conclusion, we will discuss how the model canhelp chosing the adequate semantic analysis to pro-cess at the sentence level or disambiguating multiplemeaning representations, providing probabilities fornon-literal meanings.2 C lass ica l  methods :  a br ie foverv iewThe classical NLU points of view of metaphor havepointed out the multiple kinds of relations betweenwhat is called the source and the target of themetaphor, but rarely discuss the problem of detect-ing the figure that bears the metaphor.
For our pur-pose, we choose to present hese approaches in twomain groups, depending on how they initiate the se-mantic processing.The previous works led to a classification intro-duced by Dan Fass (Fass, 1991).
In the compari-son view, the metaphor corresponds to an analogybetween the structures representing the source andthe target of the figure, as in Gentner's works (Gen-tner, 1988) and their implementation (Falkenhaineret al, 1989).
The interaction view, as in Hobbs(Hobbs, 1991), points at the novelty brought by themetaphor.
Fass also distinguishes a selection restric-tions violations view presenting the metaphor as akind of anomaly.
We would argue that the two pre-vious views already considered metaphor as a kindof anomaly.
Indeed, the semantic anMysis proposedfor dealing with metaphors were processed epend-ing on the results of another, say a "classical" one 2.2We prefer to call it a classical rather than literalmeanings processing because it can deal with some con-ventional metaphors, even if not explicitly mentioned.351Thereby, detecting a metaphor meant detecting ananomaly in the meaning representation issued fromsuch a classical analysis.Fass proposed a method for discriminating literalmeanings, metaphors, metonymies and "anomalies",merging different points of view (Fass, 1991).
Inthis approach, multiple semantic analysis can be pro-cessed, resulting in possibly multiple meaning repre-sentations.
In (Prince and Sabah, 1992), a methodto overcome similar kinds of ambiguities reveal thedifficulties encountered if no previous detection ismade.
James Martin's approach (Martin, 1992),called the conventional view by Fass, is based onLakoff's theory on cognitive metaphors (Lakoff andJohnson, 1980).
It requires a specific knowledge rep-resentation base and also results in multiple repre-sentation meanings.
Detecting a metaphor is mean-ingless here, and conventional metaphoric meaningscan be viewed as polysemies.
Martin revealed atleast that the heuristic of the ill-formness of mean-ing representations issued from classical analysis isnot sufficient at all to deal with all the possiblemetaphors.In our point of view, all the previous approacheswere founded.
The main remaining problem, how-ever, is to choose an adequate processing when con-fronted with a metaphor, and thus, to detect themetaphors before trying to build their meaning rep-resentation.
This can be partially solved using tex-tual clues.3 Textual clues: object orienteddescriptionIf the classical views of the metaphor overlook thetextual clues, in other domains, especially thoseconcerning explanation, they have been wisely re-introduced.
In (Pery-Woodley, 1990), Pery-Woodleyshows the existence of such clues related to theexplanatory discourse.
They can help in generat-ing explanations in natural language as well as inmodelling the student in a intelligent utoring sys-tem (Daniel et al, 1992).
A corpus of 26 explana-tory texts in French, of about 200 words each, hasbeen collected under a shared research project be-tween psychologists and computer scientists, in or-der to study metaphors and analogies in teaching.The analysis we made showed the existence of tex-tual clues in relation with metaphoric ontexts andanalogies (e.g.
"like", "such as", "illustrated by").They can be characterized by syntactic regularities(e.g.
the comparative is used in structures uch as"less than", "more than"; the identification is madethrough attributes or appositions, ...).
They alsoinvolve lexical markers (e.g.
"literMy", "illustrat-ing", "metaphorically" ,).
These properties, alreadyfound in the previous works, can help detecting theclues themselves.
Studying the relation between thesyntactic regularities and the lexical markers, onecan observe that the first build the ground where tofind the second.
We thus propose an object-orientedmodel for representing these clues.
A generic textualclue can thereby be described by the two followingattributes:?
the Surface Syntactic Pattern representing thesyntactic regularity, with a label on the itemwhere to find the lexical marker?
the Lexical Marker itselfTypically, the word "metaphor" itself can be usedas a lexical marker in expressions uch as '~to ex-tend the conventional metaphor, pruning such atree means to generalize".
On the other hand,"metaphor" will not be a marker if used as thesubject of the sentence, like in this one.
Thus,describing the syntactic regularities urrounding alexical marker improves its relevance as a marker.We propose to represent his relevance for proba-bilistic purposes.
Each clue that was found is cur-rently evaluated on a large corpus (about 450,000words).
The frequencies of use of the lexical mark-ers in metaphoric ontexts are represented in therelevance attribute (see example below).The syntactic structures may also give infor-mation about the source and the target of themetaphor.
For instance, in the sentence "Yesterday,at home, Peter threw himself on the dessert like alion.
", the subject inherits the properties of speedand voracity of a lion attacking its victim.
It is herepossible to spot the source and the target of themetaphor using the syntactic properties of the com-parison.
Two attributes are added to textual cluesrelated to metaphors, corresponding to the elementsof the sentence bearing the source and the target.Example  of  textua l  c lue representat ionstype  metaphor-analogyname B.2.2.2comment  comparison involving the meaning of amarker, adjective, attribute of the object, objectbefore the verbSSP GNo GN1 Vx Adjo \[prep\] GN2LM Adjo: pareil (meaning "similar")ta rget  GN1source  GN2LM re levance (15/28)number  o f  occur rences  28convent iona l  metaphors  3new metaphors  2metaphomc ontexts  12to ta l  15Notations: GN and GV stand for nominal or verbalgroups, Adj and Adv for adjectives and adverbs, andprep for prepositions.The model has been partially implemented in atool, STK, for detecting the textual clues related to352metaphors and adding specific marks when found.In its current version, STK allows us to tokenize,tag, and search for lexical markers on large corpora.The tagger we use is the one developped by EricBrill (Brill, 1992) with a set of tags indicating thegrammatical categories as well as other informationsuch as the number and the gender for nouns andadjectives.
It is evaluated under GRACE 3 protocolfor corpus-oriented tools assigning rammatical cat-egories.
It is currently used for the evaluation ofthe textual clues that were found.
The latter canbe easily retrieved using STK, avoiding lexical am-biguities.
They are then analyzed by hand, in orderto determine their relevance attribute.
In the previ-ous example of textual clue, the relevance values areissued from this corpus-based analysis.4 Conc lus ion ,  perspect ivesClassical approaches to the metaphor in NLU re-vealed multiple underlying processes.
We there-fore focussed our study on how to help detectingmetaphors in order to chose the most adequate se-mantic processing.
Textual clues can give informa-tion about he figures that bear the metaphor, whichare easy to spot.
Indeed, they can be found usingthe results of syntactic parsing.
We proposed anobject-oriented model to represent these clues andtheir multiple properties.If textual clues give information about possiblenon-literal meanings, metaphors and analogies, onemay argue they do not allow for a robust detection.Indeed, a textual clue is not sufficient o prove thepresence of such figures of speech.
The relevance ofeach clue can be used to help disambiguating mul-tiple meaning representation when it occurs.
Thismust not be the only disambiguation tool, but whenno other is avalaible, it provides NLU systems witha probabilistic method.Our future works will focuss on the study of therelation between the metaphors introduced by a clueand others that are not conventional.
The guidelineis that novel metaphors not introduced by a clue atthe sentence l vel may have been introduced previ-ously in the text.tique la Mod~lisation Cognitive de l'\]~l~ve.
Lec-ture Notes in Computer Sciences, 608:252-260.Proceedings ofthe International Conference on In-telligent Tutoring Systems (ITS-92), MontrEal.Falkenhainer, B., Forbus, K., and Gentner, D.(1989).
The Structure-Mapping Engine: Algo-rithm and Examples.
Artificial Intelligence, 41:1-63.Fass, D. (1991).
met : A Method for DiscriminatingMetonymy and Metaphor by Computer.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 17(1):49-90.Fass, D., Hinkelman, E., and Martin, J., editors.Proceedings of the IJCAI Workshop on Computa-tional Approaches to Non-Literal Language, Syd-ney, Australia.
1991.Gentner, D. (1988).
Analogical Inference and Ana-logical Access, In: Analogica, chapter 3, pages63-88.
Edited by Prieditis A., Pitman Publish-ing, London, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, Inc.,Los Altos, California.Hobbs, J.
(1991).
Metaphor and abduction.
In (Fasset al, ), pages 52-61.Lakoff, G. and Johnson, M. (1980).
Metaphors welive by.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago,U.S.A.Martin, J.
(1992).
Computer Understanding of Con-ventional Metaphoric Language.
Cognitive Sci-ence, 16:233-270.Pery-Woodley, M. (1990).
Textual clues for usermodeling in an intelligent tutoring system.
Mas-ter's thesis, University of Manchester, England,Great-Britain.Prince, V. and Sabah, G. (1992).
Coping withVague and Fuzzy Words : A Multi-Expert NaturalLanguage System which Overcomes Ambiguities.In Acts of PRICAI'92, Seoul, Corea.
September,1992.Re ferencesBrill, E. (1992).
A simple rule-based part of speechtagger.
In Proceedings of the Third Conferenceon Applied Natural Language Processing, Trento.ACL.Daniel, M., Nicaud, L., Prince, V., and Pery-Woodley, M. (1992).
Apport du style Linguis-3GRACE stands for "Grammars and Resources forCorpora Analysis and their Evaluation".
It is a nationalresearch project for the development of tools for Frenchlanguage processing.353
