Towards resolution of bridging descriptionsRenata  Vie i ra  and S imone Teufe lCent re  for Cogni t ive Science - Un ivers i ty  of Ed inburgh2, Bucc leuch  P lace EH8 9LW Ed inburgh  UK{renat a, simone}?cogsci, ed.
ac.
ukAbst ractWe present preliminary results concern-ing robust echniques for resolving bridgingdefinite descriptions.
We report our anal-ysis of a collection of 20 Wall Street Jour-nal articles from the Penn Treebank Cor-pus and our experiments with WordNet toidentify relations between bridging descrip-tions and their antecedents.1 BackgroundAs part of our research on definite description (DD)interpretation, we asked 3 subjects to classify theuses of DDs in a corpus using a taxonomy relatedto the proposals of (Hawkins, 1978) (Prince, 1981)and (Prince, 1992).
Of the 1040 DDs in our corpus,312 (30%) were identified as anaphoric (same head),492 (47%) as larger situation/unfamiliar (Prince'sdiscourse new), and 204 (20%) as bridging refer-ences, defined as uses of DDs whose antecedents--coreferential or not--have a different head noun; theremaining were classified as idioms or were cases forwhich the subjects expressed oubt--see (Poesio andVieira, 1997) for a description of the experiments.In previous work we implemented a system ca-pable of interpreting DDs in a parsed corpus(Vieira and Poesio, 1997).
Our implementationemployed fairly simple techniques; we concentratedon anaphoric (same head) descriptions (resolved bymatching the head nouns of DDs with those oftheir antecedents) and larger situation/unfamiliardescriptions (identified by certain syntactic struc-tures, as suggested in (Hawkins, 1978)).
In thispaper we describe our subsequent work on bridgingDDs, which involve more complex forms of common-sense reasoning.2 Br idg ing  descr ip t ions :  a corpuss tudyLinguistic and computational theories of bridg-ing references acknowledge two main problems intheir resolution: first, to find their antecedents(ANCHORS) and second, to find the relations (LINKS)holding between the descriptions and their anchors(Clark, 1977; Sidner, 1979; Heim, 1982; Carter,1987; Fraurud, 1990; Chinchor and Sundheim, 1995;Strand, 1997).
A speaker is licensed in using a bridg-ing DD when he/she can assume that the common-sense knowledge required to identify the relation isshared by the listener (Hawkins, 1978; Clark andMarshall, 1981; Prince, 1981).
This reliance onshared knowledge means that, in general, a systemcould only resolve bridging references when suppliedwith an adequate l xicon; the best results have beenobtained by restricting the domain and feeding thesystem with specific knowledge (Carter, 1987).
Weused the publicly available lexical database Word-Net (WN) (Miller, 1993) as an approximation of aknowledge basis containing eneric information.Br idg ing DDs and WordNet  As a first experi-ment, we used WN to automatically find the anchorof a bridging DD, among the NPs contained in theprevious five sentences.
The system reports a se-mantic link between the DD and the NP if one ofthe following is true:?
The NP and the DD are synonyms of each other,as in the  su i t  - -  the  lawsu i t .?
The NP and the DD are in direct hyponymyrelation with each other, for instance, do l la r  - -  thecur rency .?
There is a direct or indirect meronymy (part-of relation) between the NP and the DD.
Indirectmeronymy holds when a concept inherits parts fromits hypernyms, like car  inherits the part whee l  fromits hypernym wheeled_vehic le .?
Due to WN's idiosyncratic encoding, it is often522necessary to look for a semantic relation betweensisters, i.e.
hyponyms of the same hypernym, suchas home - -  the house.An automatic search for a semantic relation in5481 possible anchor/DD pairs (relative to 204bridging DDs) found a total of 240 relations, dis-tributed over 107 cases of DDs.
There were 54 cor-rect resolutions (distributed over 34 DDs) and 186false positives.Types  o f  bridging definite descriptions Acloser analysis revealed one reason for the poorresults: anchors and descriptions are often linkedby other means than direct lexico-semantic rela-tions.
According to different anchor/l ink types andtheir processing requirements, we observed six ma-jor classes of bridging DDs in our corpus:Synonymy/Hyponymy/Meronymy These DDsare in a semantic relation with their anchors thatmight be encoded in WN.
Examples are: a) Syn-onymy: new album - -  the record, three bills - -the legislation; b) Hypernymy-Hyponymy: rice - -the plant, the television show - -  the program; c)Meronymy: plants - -  the pollen, the house - -  thechimney.Names Definite descriptions may be anchored toproper names, as in: Mrs. Park  - -  the housewifeand Pinkerton's Inc - -  the company.Events  There are cases where the anchor of a bridg-ing DD is not an NP but a VP or a sentence.
Ex-amples are: ...individual investors contend.
- -  Theymake the argument in letters...; Kadane Oil Co. iscurrently drilling two wells... - -  The activity ...Compound Nouns  This class of DDs requires con-sidering not only the head nouns of a DD and itsanchor for its resolution but also the premodifiers.Examples include: stock market crash - -  the mar-kets, and discount packages - -  the discounts.Discourse  Topic  There are some cases of DDswhich are anchored to an implicit discourse topicrather than to some specific NP or VP.
For instance,the industry (the topic being oil companies) and thef irst half  (the topic being a concert).I n fe rence  One other class of bridging DDs includescases based on a relation of reason, cause, conse-quence, or set-members between an anchor (previousNP) and the DD (as in Republ icans/Democrat ics - -the two sides, and last week's earthquake - -  the suf-fer ing people are going through).The relative importance of these classes in ourcorpus is shown in Table 1.
These results explainin part the poor results obtained in our first experi-ment: only 19% of the cases of bridging DDs fall intothe category which we might expect WN to handle.Class # % Class # %S/H/M 38 19% C.Nouns  25 12%Names  49 24% D.Top ic  15 07%Events  40 20% In ference  37 18%Table 1: Distribution of types of bridging DDs3 Other  exper iments  w i th  WordNetCases that  WN cou ld  hand le  Next, we consid-ered only the 38 cases of syn /hyp/mer  relations andtested whether WN encoded a semantic relation be-tween them and their (manually identified) anchors.The results for these 38 DDs are summarized in Ta-ble 2.
Overall recall was 39% (15/38).
1Class Total Found in WN Not FoundSyn 12 4 8Hyp  14 8 6Mer  12 3 9Table 2: Search for semantic relations in WNProb lems w i th  WordNet  Some of the missingrelations are due to the unexpected way in whichknowledge is organized in WN.
For example, ourartifactIstructure/1construction/4.
part ofhousing building ~lodging edifice " all/\ house dwelling, home /~  part_ofspecific housesblood familyFigure 1: Part of WN's  semantic net for buildingsmethod could not find an association between houseand walls, because house was not entered as a hy-ponym of building but of housing, and housing does1 Our previous experiment found correct relations for34 DDs, from which only 18 were in the syn/hyp/merclass.
Among these 18, 8 were based on different anchorsfrom the ones we identified manually (for instance, weidentified pound - -  the currency, whereas our automaticsearch found sterling - -  the currency).
Other 16 correctrelations resulting from the automatic search were foundfor DDs which we have ascribed manually to other classesthan syn/hyp/mer, for instance, a relation was found forthe pair Bach - -  the composer, in which the anchor isa name.
Also, whereas we identified the pair Koreans- -  the population, the search found a WN relation fornation - -  the popu la t ion .523not have a meronymy link to wall whereas buildingdoes.
On the other hand, specific houses (school-house, smoke house, tavern) were encoded in WNas hyponyms of building rather than hyponyms ofhouse (Fig.
1).D iscourse  s t ruc ture  Another problem found inour first test with WN was the large number of falsepositives.
Ideally, we should have a mechanism forfocus tracking to reduce the number of false posi-t ives- (Sidner.
1979), (Grosz, 1977).
We repeatedour first experiment using a simpler heuristic: con-sidering only the closest anchor found in a five sen-tence window (instead of all possible anchors).
Byadopting this heuristic we found the correct anchorsfor 30 DDs (instead of 34) and reduced the numberof false positives from 186 to 77.4 Future  workWe are currently working on a revised version of thesystem that takes the problems just discussed intoaccount.
A few names are available in WN, such asfamous people, countries, cities and languages.
Forother names, if we can infer their entity type wecould resolve them using WN.
Entity types can beidentified by complements like Mr., Co., Inc. etc.An initial implementation of this idea resulted inthe resolution of .53% (26/49) of the cases basedon names.
Some relations are not found in WN,for instance, Mr. Morishita (type person)-- the 57year-old.
To process DDs based on events we couldtry first to transform verbs into their nominalisa-tions, and then looking for a relation between ounsin a semantic net.
Some rule based heuristics or astochastic method are required to 'guess' the formof a nominalisation.
We propose to use WN's mor-phology component as a stemmer, and to augmentthe verbal stems with the most common suffixes fornominalisations, like -ment, -ion.
In our corpus, 16%(7/43) of the cases based on events are direct nom-inalisations (for instance, changes were proposed --the proposals), and another 16% were based on se-mantic relations holding between nouns and verbs(such as borrou~,ed -- the loan).
The other 29 cases(68%) of DDs based on events require inference rea-soning based on the compositional meaning of thephrases (as in It u~ent looking for a partner -- theprospect); these cases are out of reach just now, aswell as the cases listed under "'discourse topic" and"inference".
We still have to look in more detail atcompound nouns.ReferencesCarter, D. M. 1987.
Interpreting Anaphors in .Vat-ural Language Tezts.
Ellis Horwood, Chichester.UK.Chinchor, N. A. and B. Sundheim.
1995.
(MUC)tests of discourse processing.
In Proc.
AAA\[ SSon Empirical Methods in Discourse Interpretationand Generation.
pages 21-26, Stanford.Clark, H. H. 1977.
Bridging.
In Johnson-Lairdand Wason, eds..
Thinking: Readings in CognitiveScience.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Clark, H. H. and C. P~.
Marshall.
1981.
Definite ref-erence and mutual knowledge.
In Joshi, Webberand Sag, eds.,Elements of Discourse Understand-ing.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Fraurud, K. 1990.
Definiteness and the Processingof Noun Phrases in Natural Discourse.
Journal ofSemantics, 7, pages 39.5-433.Grosz, B. J.
1977.
The Representation and Use ofFocus in Dialogue Understanding.
Ph.D. thesis,Stanford University.Hawkins, J.
A.
1978.
Definiteness and Indefinite-ness.
Croom Helm, London.Helm, I.
1982.
The Semantics of Definite and In-definite Noun Phrases.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofMassachusetts at Amherst.Miller, G. et al 1993.
Five papers in WordNet.Technical Report CSL Report ~3, Cognitive Sci-ence Laboratory, Princeton University.Poesio, M. and Vieira.
R. 1997.
A Corpusbased investigation of definite description use.Manuscript, Centre for Cognitive Science, Univer-sity of Edinburgh.Prince, E. 1981.
Toward a taxonomy of given/newinformation.
In Cole.
ed., Radical Pragmatics.Academic Press.
New York, pages '223-255.Prince, E. 1992.
The ZPG letter: subjects, definete-ness, and information-status.
In Thompson andMann, eds., Discourse description: diverse analy-ses of a fund raising text.
Benjamins.
Amsterdam,pages 295-325.Sidner, C. L. 1979.
Towards a computational the-ory of definite anaphora comprehension i  Englishdiscourse.
Ph.D. thesis.
MIT.Strand, K. 1997.
A Taxonomy of Linking Relations.Journal of Semantics, forthcoming.Vieira, R. and M. Poesio.
1997.
Corpus-basedprocessing of definite descriptions.
In Botley andMcEnery eds., Corpus-based and computationalapproaches to anaphora.
UCL Press.
London.524
