Expansion of Multi-Word Terms for Indexing and RetrievalUsing Morphology and Syntax*Chr i s t ian  Jacquemin  Jud i th  L. K lavansInst i tut  de Recherche en In format ique  Center  for Researchde Nantes,  BP  922082, chemin de la Houssini~re44322 NANTES Cedex 3FRANCEj acquemin@irin, univ-nantes, frEve lyne  TzoukermannBell Laborator ies ,on In fo rmat ion  Access Lucent  Technologies,Co lumbia  Univers i ty  700 Mounta in  Avenue,  2D-448,535 W. l l4 th  Street ,  MC 1101 P.O.
Box  636,New York, NY  10027, USA Murray  Hil l ,  N J  07974, USAklavans@cs, columbia, edu evelyneQresearch, bell-labs, cornAbst ractA system for the automatic production ofcontrolled index terms is presented usinglinguistically-motivated techniques.
Thisincludes a finite-state part of speech tagger,a derivational morphological processor foranalysis and generation, and a unification-based shallow-level parser using transfor-mational rules over syntactic patterns.
Thecontribution of this research is the success-ful combination of parsing over a seed termlist coupled with derivational morphologyto achieve greater coverage of multi-wordterms for indexing and retrieval.
Final re-sults are evaluated for precision and recall,and implications for indexing and retrievalare discussed.1 Mot ivat ionTerms are known to be excellent descriptors of theinformational content of textual documents (Sriniva-san, 1996), but they are subject o numerous linguis-tic variations.
Terms cannot be retrieved properlywith coarse text simplification techniques (e.g.
stem-ming); their identification requires precise and effi-cient NLP techniques.
We have developed a domainindependent system for automatic term recognitionfrom unrestricted text.
The system presented in thispaper takes as input a list of controlled terms anda corpus; it detects and marks occurrences of termWe would like to thank the NLP Group of ColumbiaUniversity, Bell Laboratories - Lucent Technologies, andthe Institut Universitaire de Technologie de Nantes fortheir support of the exchange visitor program for thefirst author.
We also thank the Institut de l'InformationScientifique t Technique (INIST-CNRS) for providingus with the agricultural corpus and the associated termlist, and Didier Bourigault for providing us with termsextracted from the newspaper corpus through LEXTER(Bourigault, 1993).variants within the corpus.
The system takes as in-put a precompiled (automatically or manually) termlist, and transforms it dynamically into a more com-plete term list by adding automatically generatedvariants.
This method extends the limits of termextraction as currently practiced in the IR commu-nity: it takes into account multiple morphologicaland syntactic ways linguistic concepts are expressedwithin language.
Our approach is a unique hybridin allowing the use of manually produced precom-piled data as input, combined with fully automaticcomputational methods for generating term expan-sions.
Our results indicate that we can expand termvariations at least 30% within a scientific orpus.2 Background and  In t roduct ionNLP techniques have been applied to extractionof information from corpora for tasks such as freeindexing (extraction of descriptors from corpora),(Metzler and Haas, 1989; Schwarz, 1990; Sheridanand Smeaton, 1992; Strzalkowski, 1996), term ac-quisition (Smadja and McKeown, 1991; Bourigault,1993; Justeson and Katz, 1995; Dallle, 1996), or ex-traction of lin9uistic information e.g.
support verbs(Grefenstette and Teufel, 1995), and event structureof verbs (Klavans and Chodorow, 1992).Although useful, these approaches suffer from twoweaknesses which we address.
First is the issue offiltering term lists; this has been dealt with by cons-traints on processing and by post-processing over-generated lists.
Second is the problem of difficultiesin identifying related terms across parts of speech.We address these limitations through the use of con-trolled indexing, that is, indexing with reference topreviously available authoritative t rms lists, such as(NLM, 1995).
Our approach is fully automatic, butpermits effective combination of available resources(such as thesauri) with language processing techno-logy, i.e., morphology, part-of-speech tagging, andsyntactic analysis.24Automatic ontrolled indexing is a more difficulttask than it may seem at first glance:?
controlled indexing on single-words mustaccount for polysemy and word disambiguation(Krovetz and Croft, 1992; Klavans, 1995).?
controlled indexing on multi-word terms mustconsider the numerous forms of term va-riations (Dunham, Pacak, and Pratt, 1978;Sparck Jones and Tait, 1984; Jacquemin, 1996).We focus here on the multi-word task.
Oursystem exploits a morphological processor and atransformation-based parser for the extraction ofmulti-word controlled indexes.The action of the system is twofold.
First, a cor-pus is enriched by tagging each word unambiguously,and then expanded by linking each word with all itspossible derivatives.
For example, for English, theword genes is tagged as a plural noun and morpho-logically connected to genic, genetic, genome, ge-notoxic, genetically, etc.
Second, the term list isdynamically expanded through syntactic transfor-mations which allow the retrieval of term variants.For example, genic expressions, genes were expres-sed, expression of this gene, etc.
are extracted asvariants of gene expression.This system relies on a full-fledged unification for-malism and thus is well adapted to a fine-grainedidentification of terms related in syntactically andmorphologically complex ways.
The same systemhas been effectively applied both to English andFrench, although this paper focuses on French (see(Jacquemin, 1994) for the case of syntactic variantsin English).
All evaluation experiments were perfor-med on two corpora: a training corpus \[ECI\] (ECI,1989 and 1990) used for the tuning of the metagram-mar and a test corpus \[AGR\] (AGR, 1995) used forevaluation.
\[ECI\] is a subset of the European CorpusInitiative data composed of 1.3 million words of theFrench newspaper "Le Monde"; \[AGR\] is a set ofabstracts of scientific papers in the agricultural do-main from INIST/CNRS (1.1 million words).
A listof terms is associated with each corpus: the termscorresponding to \[ECI\] were automatically extrac-ted by LEXTER (Bourigault, 1993) and the termscorresponding to \[AGR\] were extracted from theAGROVOC term list owned by INIST/CNRS.The following section describes methods for grou-ping multi-word term variants; Section 4 presentsa linguistically-motivated method for lexical analy-sis (inflectional analysis, part of speech tagging, andderivational analysis); Section 5 explains term ex-pansion methods: constructions with a local parsethrough syntactic transformations preserving depen-dency relations; Section 6 illustrates the empiricaltuning of linguistic rules; Section 7 presents an eva-luation of the results in terms of precision and recall.3 Var ia t ion  in  Mu l t i -Word  Terms:  ADescr ip t ion  o f  the  Prob lemLinguistic variation is a major concern in the studieson automatic indexing.
Variations can be classifiedinto three major categories:?
Syntact ic  (Type 1): the content words ofthe original term are found in the variant butthe syntactic structure of the term is modified,e.g.
technique for performing volumetric mea-surements i a Type 1 variant of measurementtechnique.?
Morpho-syntaet ic  (Type  2): the contentwords of the original term or one of their deri-vatives are found in the variant.
The syntacticstructure of the term is also modified, e.g.
ele-ctrophoresed on a neutral polyaerylamide gel isa Type 2 variant of gel electrophoresis.?
Semant ic  (Type 3): synonyms are found inthe variant; the structure may be modified, e.g.kidney function is a Type 3 variant of renal fun-ction.This paper deals with Type 1 and Type 2 variations.The two main approaches to multi-word term con-flation in IR are text simplification and structuralsimilarity.
Text simplification refers to traditionalIR algorithms uch as (1) deletion of stop words,(2) normalization ofsingle words through stemming,and (3) phrase construction through dictionary mat-ching.
(See (Lewis, Croft, and Bhandaru, 1989;Smeaton, 1992) on the exploitation of NLP tech-niques in IR.)
These methods are generally limited.The morphological complexity of the language seemsto be a decisive argument for performing rich stem-ming (Popovi~ and Willett, 1992).
Since we focuson French, a language with a rich declensional infle-ctional and derivational morphology--we have cho-sen the richest and most precise morphological na-lysis.
This is a key component in the recognitionof Type 2 variants.
For structural similarity, co-arse dependency-based NLP methods do not accountfor fine structural relations involved in Type 1 va-riants.
For instance, properties of flour should belinked to flour properties, properties of wheat flourbut not to properties of flour starch (examples arefrom (Schwarz, 1990)).
The last occurrence must berejected because starch is the argument of the head25noun properties, whereas flour is the argument ofthe head noun properties in the original term.
Wi-thout careful structural disambiguation ver internalphrase structure, these important syntactic distinc-tions would be incorrectly overlooked.4 Par t  o f  Speech  D isambiguat ionand  Morpho logyFirst, inf lect ional morpho logy  is performed in or-der to get the different analyses of word forms.
Infle-ctional morphology is implemented with finite-statetransducers on the model used for Spanish (Tzouker-mann and Liberman, 1990).
The theoretical prin-ciples underlying this approach are based on gene-rative morphology (Aronoff, 1976; Selkirk, 1982).The system consists of precomputing stems, extrac-ted from a large dictionary of French (Boyer, 1993)enhanced with newspaper corpora, a total of over85,000 entries.Second, a f in i te-state par t  of speech tagger(Tzoukermann, Radev, and Gale, 1995; Tzouker-mann and Radev, 1996) performs the morpho-syntactic disambiguation f words.
The tagger takesthe output of inflectional morphological nalysis andthrough a combination of linguistic and statisticaltechniques, outputs a unique part of speech for eachword in context.
Reducing the ambiguity of part ofspeech tags eliminates ambiguity in local parsing.Furthermore, part of speech ambiguity resolutionpermits construction of correct derivational links.Third, der ivat iona l  morpho logy  (Tzoukermannand Jacquemin, 1997) is achieved to generate mor-phological variants of the disambiguated words.
De-rivational generation is performed on the lemmasproduced by the inflectional analysis and the part ofspeech information.
Productive stripping and con-catenation rules are applied on lemmas.The derived forms are expressed as tokens withfeature structures 1.
For instance, the following setof constraints express that the noun modernisateur ismorphologically related to the word modernisation 2 .The <ON> metarule removes the -ion suffix, andthe <EUR> rule adds the nominal suffix -eur.1In the remainder of the paper, N is Noun, AAdjective, C Coordinating conjunction, D Determiner,P Preposition, Av Adverb, Pu Punctuation, NP NounPhrase, and AP Adjective Phrase.2Each lemma has a unique numeric identifier<reference>.<cat> =- N<lemma> =- 'modernisation'<reference> = 52663<derivation cat> -- N<derivation lemma> = 'modernisateur'<derivation reference> = 52662<derivation history> -- '<ON<>EUR>' .The morphological analysis performed in thisstudy is detailed in (Tzoukermann, Klavans, andJacquemin, 1997).
It is more complete and linguis-tically more accurate than simple stemming for thefollowing reasons:?
Allomorphy is accounted for by listing the setof its possible allomorphs for each word.
A1-lomorphies are obtained through multiple verbstems, e.g.
\]abriqu-, \]abric- (fabricate) or addi-tional allomorphic rules.?
Concatenation of several suffixes is accountedfor by rule ordering mechanisms.
Furthermore,we have devised a method for guessing possiblesuffix combinations from a lexicon and a corpus.This empirical method reported in (Jacquemin,1997) ensures that suffixes which are related wi-thin specific domains are considered.?
Derivational morphology is built with the pers-pective of overgeneration.
The nature of the se-mantic links between a word and its derivationalforms is not checked and all allomorphic alter-nants are generated.
Selection of the correctlinks occurs during subsequent term expansionprocess with collocational filtering.
Althoughdtable (cowshed) is incorrectly related to dtablir(to establish), it is very improbable to find acontext where dtablir co-occurs with one of thethree words found in the three multi-word termscontaining dtable: nettoyeur (cleaner), alimen-ration (feeding), and liti~re (litter): Since wefocus on multi-word term variants, overgenera-tion does not present a problem in our system.5 T rans format ion -Based  TermExpans ionThe extraction of terms and their variants from cor-pora is performed by a unification-based parser.
Thecontrolled terms are transformed into grammar ruleswhose syntax is similar to PATR-I I .5.1 A Corpus -Based  Method  forDiscover ing Syntact ic  T rans format ionsWe present a method for inferring transformationsfrom a corpus in the purpose of developing a gram-26mar of syntactic transformations for term variants.To discover the families of term variants, we firstconsider a notion of collocation which is less restri-ctive than variation.
Then, we refine this notion inorder to filter out genuine variants and to reject spu-rious ones.
A Type 1 collocation of a binary termis a text window containing its content words wland w2, without consideration of the syntactic stru-cture.
With such a definition, any Type 1 variant isa Type 1 collocation.
Similarly, a notion of Type 2collocation is defined based on the co-occurence ofwl and w2 including their derivational relatives.A d=5-word window is considered as sufficient fordetecting collocations in English (Martin, A1, andVan Sterkenburg, 1983).
We chose a window-sizetwice as large because French is a Romance languagewith longer syntactic structures due to the absenceof compounding, and because we want to be sureto observe structures panning over large textual se-quences.
For example, the term perte au stockage(storage loss) is encountered in the \[AGR\] corpus as:pertes occasionndes par les insectes au sorgho stockd(literally: loss of stored sorghum due to the insects).A linguistic classification of the collocations whichare correct variants brings up the following familiesof variations a.?
Type  1 var iat ions  are classified according totheir syntactic stucture.1.
Coord inat ion :  a coordination the combi-nation of two terms with a common headword or a common argument.
Thus, fruitset agrumes tropicaux (literally: tropical ci-trus fruits or fruits) is a coordination va-riant of the term fruits tropicaux (tropicalfruits).2.
Subst i tu t ion /Mod i f i ca t ion :  a substitu-tion is the replacement of a content wordby a term; a modification is the insertionof a modifier without reference to anotherterm.
For example, activitd thermodyna-mique de l'eau (thermodynamic a tivity ofwater) is a substitution variant of activitgde l'eau (activity of water) if activitd ther-modynamique (thermodynamic a tivity) isa term; otherwise, it is a modification.3.
Compound ing /Decompound ing :  inFrench, most terms have a compound nounstructure, i.e.
a noun phrase structurewhere determiners are omitted such as con-sommation d'oxyg~ne (oxygen consump-tion).
The decompounding variation is the3 Variations are generic linguistic functions and va-riants are transformations of terms by these functions.transformation of a term with a compoundstructure into a noun phrase structure suchas consommation de l'oxyg~ne (consump-tion of the oxygen).
Compounding is thereciprocal transformation.?
Type  2 var iat ions are classified according tothe nature of the morphological derivation.
Of-ten semantic shifts are involved as well (Viegas,Gonzalez, and Longwell, 1996).1.
Noun-Noun var iat ions:  relations suchas result/agent (fixation de l'azote (ni-trogen fixation) / fixateurs d ' azote (nitrogenfixater)) or container/content (rdservoird ' eau (water eservoir) / rdserve en eau (wa-ter reserve)) are found in this family.2.
Noun-Verb  var iat ions:  these variationsoften involve semantic shifts such as pro-cess/result fixation de l'azote/fixer l'azote(to fix nitrogen).3.
Noun-Ad jec t ive  var iat ions:  the twoways to modify a noun, a prepositionalphrase or an adjectival phrase, are gene-rally semantically equivalent, e.g.
variationdu climat (climate variation) is a synonymof variation climatique (climatic variation).A method for term variant extraction based onmorphology and simple co-occurrences would bevery imprecise.
A manual observation ofcollocationsshows that only 55% of the Type 1 collocations arecorrect Type 1 variants and that only 52% of theType 2 collocations are correct Type 2 variants.
Itis therefore necessary to conceive a filtering methodfor rejecting fortuitous co-occurrences.
The follo-wing section proposes a filtering system based onsyntactic patterns.6 Empi r i ca l  Ru le  Tun ing6.1 Syntact ic  T rans format ions  for Type  1and Type 2 var iantsThe concept of a grammar of syntactic transforma-tions is motivated by well-known observations on thebehavior of collocations in context (e.g.
(Harris etal., 1989).)
Initial rules based on surface syntax arerefined through incremental experimental tuning.We have devised a grammar of French to serve as abasis for the creation of metarules for term variants.For example, the noun phrase expansion rule is4:NP -~ D: AP*N (APIPP)*  (1)awe use UNIX regular expression symbols for rulesand transformations.27From this rule a set of expansions can be generated:NP = D ?
(Av ?
A)* N (Av ?
A I (2)P D ?
(Av ?
A)* N (Av ?
A)*)*In order to balance completeness and accuracy, ex-pansions are limited.
After the initial expansion iscreated for a range of structures, empirical tuning isapplied to create a set of maximum coverage meta-rules.We briefly illustrate this process for coordina-tion.
For this example, we restrict ransformationsto terms with N P N structures which represent a full33% of the binary terms.
Examples of metarules ofType 1 and Type 2 variations are given in Table 1.6.2 Deve lopment  of  a Coord inat ionTrans format ion  for N P N TermsThe coordination types are first calculated by combi-ning the pattern N1 P2 Ns with possible expansionsof a noun phrase with a simple paradigmatic struc-ture A TN(A IPD ?
A ?NAT)s:Coord(N1 P2 Ns) = N1 ((C A T N A T P) I (3)(A C P) I (P D?
AT N A T C P?))
N3The first parenthesis (C A T N A ?
P) represents acoordinated head noun, the second (A C P) andthird (P D ?
A T N A T C P?)
represent respectivelyan adjective phrase and a prepositional phrase coor-dinated with the prepositional phrase of the originalterm.Variants were extracted on the \[ECI\] corpusthrough this transformation; the following observa-tions and changes have been made.First, coordination accepts a substitution whichreplaces the noun N3 with a noun phrase D ?
A T Ns.For example, the variant tempdrature t humiditdinitiale de Pair (temperature and initial humidity ofthe air) is a coordination where a determiner pre-cedes the last noun (air).Secondly, the observations of coordination va-riants also suggest that the coordinating conjunctioncan be preceded by an optional comma and followedby an optional adverb, e.g.
la production, et sur-tout  la diffusion des semences (the production, andpart icu lar ly  the distribution of the seeds).Thirdly, variants such as de l'humiditd et de lavitesse de l'air (literally: of humidity and of  thespeed of the air) indicate that the conjunction can befollowed by an optional preposition and an optionaldeterminer.5Subscripts represent indexing.The three preceding changes are made on the ex-pression of (3) and the resulting transformation isgiven in the first line of Table 1 (changes are under-lined).Our empirical selection of valid metarules i  gui-ded by linguistic considerations and corpus observa-tions.
This mode of grammar conception has led usto the following decisions:?
reject linguistic phenomena which could not beaccounted for by regular expressions uch assentential complements of nouns;?
reject noisy and inaccurate variations uch aslong distance dependencies ( pecifically withina verb phrase);?
focus on productive and safe variations whichare felicitously represented in our framework.Accounting for variants which are not considered inour framework would require the conception of a no-vel framework, probably in cooperation with a dee-per analyzer.
It is unlikely that our transformatio-nal approach with regular expressions could do muchbetter than the results presented here.
Table 2 showssome variants of AGROVOC terms extracted fromthe \[AGR\] corpus.7 Eva luat ionThe precision and recall of the extraction of term va-riants are given in Table 4 where precision is the ra-tio of correct variants among the variants extractedand the recall is the ratio of variants retrieved amongthe collocates.
Results were obtained through a ma-nual inspection of 1,579 Type 1 variants, 823 Type 2variants, 3,509 Type 1 collocates, and 2,104 Type 2collocates extracted from the \[AGR\] corpus and theAGROVOC term list.These results indicate a very high level of accu-racy: 89.4% of the variants extracted by the systemare correct ones.
Errors generally correspond to a se-mantic discrepancy between a word and its morpho-logically derived form.
For example, dlevde pour unsol (literally: high for a soil) is not a correct variantof dlevage hors sol (off-soil breeding) because dlevdeand dlevage are morphologically related to two dif-ferent senses of the verb dlever:, dlevde derives fromthe meaning to raise whereas dlevage derives from tobreed.
Recall is weaker than precision because only75.2% of the possible variants are retrieved.Improvement  of  Index ing through Var iantExt rac t ionFor a better understanding of the importance ofterm expansion, we now compare term indexing with28Table 1: Metarules of Type 1 (Coordination) and Type 2 (Noun to Verb) Variations.Variation Term and variantCoord(N1 P2 N3) = NI (((Pu: C Av TpT D ?
A T NAT P) {(ACAv T P)I(pDT ATNA T CAv T pT))D T A T) Ns.teneur en protgine (protein content)-~ teneur en eau et en protdine (protein andwater content)NtoV(Nx P2 N3) ---- Vl (Av T (pT D I P) AT) N3: stabilisation de prix (price stabilization)<Vx derivation reference> = <N1 reference>.
--~ stabiliser leurs prix (stabilize their prices)Table 2: Examples of Variations from \[AGR\].Term Variant TypeEehange d'ion (ion exchange)Culture de eellules (cell culture)Propridtd chimique(chemical property)Gestion d ' eau (water management)Eau de surface(surface water)Huile de palme (palm oil)Initiation de bourgeon(bud initiation)dchange ionique (ionic exchange) N to Acultures primaires de cellules (primary cell cultures) Modif.propridtds physiques et chimiques Coor.
(chemical and physical properties)gestion de l'eau (management of the water) Comp.eau et de l'dvaporation de surface Coor.
(water and of surface vaporation \[incorrect variant\])palmier d huile (palm tree \[yielding oil\]) N to Ninitier des bourgeons N to V(initiate buds)and without variant expansion.
The \[AGR\] corpushas been indexed with the AGROVOC thesaurus intwo different ways:1.
Simple indexing: Extraction of occurrences ofmulti-word terms without considering variation.2.
Rich indexing: Simple indexing improved withthe extraction of variants of multi-word terms.Both indexings have been manually checked.
Simpleindexing is almost error-free but does not cover termvariants.
On the contrary, rich indexing is slightlyless accurate but recall is much higher.
Both me-thods are compared by calculating the effectivenessmeasure (Van Rijsbergen, 1975):1E~=l -a (_~)+( l _a ) ( _~)  w i th0<a<l  (4)P and R are precision and recall and a is a para-meter which is close to 1 if precision is preferred torecall.
The value of E~ varies from 0 to 1; E~ isclose to 0 when all the relevant conflations are madeand when no incorrect one is made.The effectiveness of rich indexing is more thanthree times better than effectiveness of simple in-dexing.
Retrieved variants increase the numberTable 3: Evaluation of Simple vs. Rich Indexing.Precision Recall Eo.sSimple indexing 99 .7% 72.4% 16.1%Rich indexing 97.2% 93.4% 4.7%of indexing items by 28.8% (17.3% Type 1 va-riants and 11.5% Type 2 variants).
Thus, term va-riant extraction is a significant expansion factor foridentifying morphologically and syntactically relatedmulti-word terms in a document without introducingundesirable noise.As for performance, the parser is fast enough forprocessing large amounts of textual data due to thepresence of several optimization devices.
On a Pen-tium133 with Linux, the parser processes 18,100words/min from an initial list of 4,300 terms.ConclusionThis paper has proposed a syntax-based approachvia morphologically derived forms for the identifi-cation and extraction of multi-word term variants.29Table 4: Precision and Recall of Term Variant Extraction on \[AGR\]Type 1 variants Type 2 variants TotalSubst.
Coord.
Comp.
AtoN NtoA NtoN NtoV# correct 808 228 404 19 60 273 471 2263# rejected 87 26 26 7 5 28 90 26990.3% 90.0% 94.0% 73.1% 91.6% 93.0% 84.0% Precision 89.4~o91.2% 86.4%Recall 75.0% 75.6% 75.2%In using a list of controlled terms coupled with asyntactic analyzer, the method is more precise thantraditional text simplification methods.
Iterative x-perimental tuning has resulted in wide-coverage lin-guistic description i corporating the most frequentlinguistic phenomena.Evaluations indicate that, by accounting for termvariation using corpus tagging, morphological deri-vation, and transformation-based rules, 28.8% morecan be identified than with a traditional indexerwhich cannot account for variation.
Applications tobe explored in future research involve the incorpo-ration Of the system as part of the indexing moduleof an IR system, to be able to accurately measureimprovements in system coverage as well as areas ofpossible degradation.
We also plan to explore analy-sis of semantic variants through apredicative r pre-sentation of term semantics.
Our results o far indi-cate that using computational linguistic techniquesfor carefully controlled term expansion will permitat least a three-fold expansion for coverage over tra-ditional indexing, which should improve retrieval re-suits accordingly.Re ferencesAGR, Institut National de l'Information Scientifiqueet Technique, Vandceuvre, France, 1995.
Corpusde l'Agriculture, first edition.Aronoff, Mark.
1976.
Word Formation in Gene-rative Grammar.
Linguistic Inquiry Monographs.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Bourigault, Didier.
1993.
An endogeneous corpus-based method for structural noun phrase disam-biguation.
In Proceedings, 6th Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (EACL'93), pages 81-86,Utrecht.Boyer, Martin.
1993.
Dictionnaire du frangais.Hydro-Quebec, GNU General Public License,Qudbec, Canada.Daille, Bdatrice.
1996.
Study and implementationof combined techniques for automatic extractionof terminology.
In Judith L. Klavans and PhilipResnik, editors, The Balancing Act: CombiningSymbolic and Statistical Approaches to Language.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Dunham, George S., Milos G. Pacak, and Arnold W.Pratt.
1978.
Automatic indexing of pathologydata.
Journal of the American Society for Infor-mation Science, 29(2):81-90.ECI, European Corpus Initiative, 1989 and 1990.
"Le Monde" Newspaper.Grefenstette, Gregory and Simone Teufel.
1995.Corpus-based method for automatic dentifcationof support verbs for nominalizations.
In Procee-dings, 7th Conference of the European Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics(EACL'95), pages 98-103, Dublin.Harris, Zellig S., Michael Gottfried, Thomas Ryck-man, Paul Mattick Jr, Anne Daladier, T. N. Har-ris, and S. Harris.
1989.
The Form of Informationin Science, Analysis of Immunology Sublanguage,volume 104 of Boston Studies in the Philosophy ofScience.
Kluwer, Boston, MA.Jacquemin, Christian.
1994.
Recycling terms into apartial parser.
In Proceedings, ~th Conference onApplied Natural Language Processing (ANLP'94),pages 113-118, Stuttgart.Jacquemin, Christian.
1996.
What is the tree thatwe see through the window: A linguistic approachto windowing and term variation.
InformationProcessing eJ Management, 32(4):445-458.Jacquemin, Christian.
1997.
Guessing morphologyfrom terms and corpora.
In Proceedings, 20th30Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference onResearch and Development in Information Retrie-val (SIGIR '97), Philadelphia, PA.Justeson, John S. and Slava M. Katz.
1995.
Tech-nical terminology: some linguistic properties andan algorithm for identification in text.
NaturalLanguage Engineering, 1(1):9-27.Klavans, Judith L., editor.
1995.
AAAI Sympo-sium on Representation a d Acquisition of LexicalKnowledge: Polysemy, Ambiguity, and Generati-vity.
American Association for Artificial Intelli-gence, March.Klavans, Judith L. and Martin S. Chodorow.
1992.Degrees of stativity: The lexical representationof verb aspect.
In Proceedings of the FourteenthInternational Conference on Computational Lin-guistics, pages 1126-1131, Nantes, France.Krovetz, Robert and W. Bruce Croft.
1992.
Lexicalambiguity and information retrieval.
ACM Tran-sactions on Information Systems, 10(2):115-141.Lewis, David D., W. Bruce Croft, and Nehru Bhan-daru.
1989.
Language-oriented information re-trieval.
International Journal of Intelligent Sys-tems, 4:285-318.Martin, W.J.F., B.P.F.
AI, and P.J.G.
Van Sterken-burg.
1983.
On the processing of a text cor-pus: From textual data to lexicographical infor-mation.
In R.R.K.
Hartman, editor, Lexicography,Principles and Practice.
Academic Press, London,pages 77-87.Metzler, Douglas P. and Stephanie W. Haas.
1989.The Constituent Object Parser: Syntactic stru-cture matching for information retrieval.
ACMTransactions on Information Systems, 7(3):292-316.NLM, National Library of Medicine, Bethesda, MD,1995.
Unified Medical Language System, sixth ex-perimental edition.Popovifi, Mirko and Peter Willett.
1992.
The effec-tiveness of stemming for Natural-Language accessto Slovene textual data.
Journal of the AmericanSociety for Information Science, 43(5):384-390.Schwarz, Christoph.
1990.
Automatic syntacticanalysis of free text.
Journal of the American So-ciety for Information Science, 41(6):408-417.Selkirk, Elisabeth O.
1982.
The Syntax of Words.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Sheridan, Paraic and Alan F. Smeaton.
1992.
Theapplication of morpho-syntactic language proces-sing to effective phrase matching.
InformationProcessing _4 Management, 28(3):349-369.Smadja, Frank and Kathleen R. McKeown.
1991.Using collocations for language generation.
Com-putational Intelligence, 7(4), December.Smeaton, Alan F. 1992.
Progress in the applicationof natural anguage processing to information re-trieval tasks.
The Computer Journal, 35(3):268-278.Sparck Jones, Karen and Joel I. Tait.
1984.
Auto-matic search term variant generation.
Journal ofDocumentation, 40(1):50-66.Srinivasan, Padmini.
1996.
Optimal document-indexing vocabulary for Medline.
InformationProcessing ~4 Management, 32(5):503-514.Strzalkowski, Tomek.
1996.
Natural anguage infor-mation retrieval.
Information Processing ~ Ma-nagement, 31(3):397-417.Tzoukermann, Evelyne and Christian Jacquemin.1997.
Analyse automatique de la morphologieddrivationnelle et filtrage de mots possibles.
Si-lexicales, 1:251-260.
Colloque Mots possibles etmots existants, SILEX, University of Lille III.Tzoukermann, Evelyne, Judith L. Klavans, andChristian Jacquemin.
1997.
Effective use of natu-ral language processing techniques for automaticconflation of multi-word terms: the role of deri-vational morphology, part of speech tagging, andshallow parsing.
In Proceedings, 20th Annual In-ternational ACM SIGIR Conference on Researchand Development in Information Retrieval (SI-GIR'97), Philadelphia, PA.Tzoukermann, Evelyne and Mark Y. Liberman.1990.
A finite-state morphological processor forSpanish.
In Proceedings of the Thirteenth Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguistics,pages 277-281, Helsinki, Finland.Tzoukermann, Evelyne and Dragomir R. Radev.1996.
Using word class for part-of-speech disambi-guation.
In SIGDAT Workshop, pages 1-13, Co-penhagen, Denmark.Tzoukermann, Evelyne, Dragomir R. Radev, andWilliam A. Gale.
1995.
Combining linguisticknowledge and statistical learning in French part-of-speech tagging.
In EACL SIGDAT Workshop,pages 51-57, Dublin, Ireland.Van Rijsbergen, C. J.
1975.
Information Retrieval.Butterworth, London.Viegas, Evelyne, Margarita Gonzalez, and Jeff Long-well.
1996.
Morpho-semantics and constructivederivational morphology: A transcategorial p-proach.
Technical Report MCCS-96-295, Com-puting Research Laboratory, New Mexico StateUniversity, Las Cruces, NM.31
