Compos i t iona l  Semant ics  of  German Pre f ix  VerbsMaria WoltersInstitut fiir Kommunikationsforschung und PhonetikUniversity of BonnPoppelsdorfer Allee 47, D-53115 Bonnmwo?asll, ikp.
uni-bonn, deAbstractA compositional ccount of the semanticsof German prefix verbs in HPSG is out-lined.
We consider only those verbs thatare formed by productive synchronic rules.Rules are fully productive if they apply toall base verbs which satisfy a common de-scription.
Prefixes can be polysemous andhave separate, highly underspecified lexicalentries.
Adequate bases are determined viaselection restrictions.1 The  Prob lemDetermining the semantics of unknown words whichcan be derived from lexicon entries is highly de-sirable for natural language understanding (Light,1996).
In this paper, I sketch a compositional c-count of the semantics of German prefix verbs de-rived from a verbal base, concentrating on thoseverbs that can be generated by a productive wordformation rule.
Like (Witte, 1997), I assume thatthe meaning of most of these verbs can be derivedcompositionally by uni~'ing the semantic represen-tations of its constituents.
Example:(1) durch + laufen ('through + to run') =~durchlaufen ('to run through')This is an instance of a common rule which can besummarized informally ms(2) 'durch' + VERB\[+motion,+agentive\] ::~VERB through a spaceWhen a prefix verb is lexicalized, its meaning fre-quently shifts due to language change and metaphor-ical usage (Mayo et al, 1995).
For example, 'durch-laufen' is mostly associated with the meaning "pass-ing through all stages of a process":(3) Er durchl?uft die Schulung.He passes through the training.2 The  Semant ics  o f  P re f ix  VerbsFrequently, the prefix modifies features of the baseverb such as valency or aspect 1.
For example, while'eilen' ('to haste') is an activity, 'etw.
dureheilen'('to haste through sth.')
is an accomplishment.
Iassume that the prefix entry provides a highly un-derspecified blueprint of the structure of the prefixverb; therefore, I regard the prefix as the head of theprefix verb (but see (Bauer, 1990)).The values for all features of the prefix verb areobtained from the base verb via structure sharing,except for basic morphological information and theinformation to be modified.
In other words, the val-ues of all unmodified features of the prefix verb aretoken identical with the corresponding values of thebase verb.Most prefixes appear in distinct but semanticallyrelated rules, resulting in polysemou,s prefixes.
Forexample, combined with some stative verbs, 'durch'signifies "'VERB during a certain period of time", asin(4) durch + leben ('through' + 'live') =~durchleben ('live through:)Specifying the set of adequate bases implicitly byselection restrictions allows to elegantly capture gen-eralizations.
For example, we can specify at thefeature structure for verbs of motion that they canonly combine with the instance of "durch' denoting"VERB through a space".The productivity of a word formation rule isa complex notion (Kastovsky, 1986; Bauer, 1988;Mayo et al, 1995).
For our purposes, a rule is pro-ductive if it applies to all bases which satisfy a com-mon description such as "'state" or "transitive verb".A rule only provides patterns for analogical forma-1Here.
aspect denotes certain general verb classes(Binnick.
1992; Comrie.
1992) such as state, activity,accomplishment, and achievement (Vendler, 1957).525tions; the frequency of application and acceptabilityof results also indicate its degree of productivity.3 Pref ix  Semant ics  in HPSGThe main advantage of HPSG (Head Driven PhraseStructure Grammar, (Pollard and Sag, 1994), forGerman see e.g.
(Kathol, 1995)) is that it is both aformalism with strong ties to logic and knowledgerepresentation and a linguistic theory.
Much re-search in HPSG focuses on the structure of the lexi-con, e.g.
(Davis, 1997).
However, work on semanticsand morphology in HPSG is relatively scarce.3.1 P rev ious  WorklVlost HPSG work on German affixation focuses onthe suffix -bar, which can combine with verbs, mostof them transitive, to form an adjective.
(Krieger and Nerbonne, 1992) (KN) assign sepa-rate lexical entries to affixes and express selectionrestrictions by typing and subcategorization frames.In their model, -bar is of sort bar-surf and subcate-gorizes for verbs of sort bar-verb to form adjectivesof sort bar-comp-adj.
Complex words have a headedbinary structure, with the affix as head.
In keepingwith the I-IPSG Semant, ics Principle, the semanticsof the complex word is structure shared with thesemantics of the head.
(Riehemann, 1993) found that subcategorizationframes were incompatible with her data.
Insteadof a word syntactic approach with separate lexicalentries for affixes, she describes the formation of bar-adjectives via a lexical inheritance hierarchy of sorts.Different sorts correspond to different ypes of verbalbases (transitive, dative, etc.).
New adjectives areformed in analogy to existing ones.Although Riehemann's approach is very elegant,it is not adequate for verb prefixes.
Most prefixescan be separated from the verb depending on theirphonological level, e Example:(5) Ich mache die Tiir zu.
('I close the door';zumachen = 'to close')Therefore, a word syntactic approach and separatelexicM entries for verb prefixes may well be adequate.
(Witte, 1997) also advocates a word syntactic ap-proach.
His semantic representation relies on (Davis,1997).
(Light, 1996) bases his semantic representa-tions on first order logic, but he does not use HPSG.3.2 Verb Pref ixesFig.
1 presents the prefix-related part of the sorthierarchy.
The sort verb-prefix specifies typical lea-2 Le.,dcM Phonology (Mohanan, 1987) assumes severallevels of rules.verb-prefixdurchdurch_l dutch2Figure 1: Part of the sort hierarchy for verb prefixestures of verb prefixes.
Each prefix p is assigned a sortp with subsorts Pl .
.
.
.
.
Pn for each potential mean-ing.
Relevant verb classes, such as semantic fields orVendler classes, are also specified using sorts.Following KN, I assume that the prefix is the headof complex affix words, but like Riehemann, I do notassume a binary structure.
The internal structure ofa complex derived word is given in Fig.
2.
Morpho-logical information is given at the feature MORPII.MORPtIILEVEL specifies eparability (1 - unsepara-ble, 2 - separable).
MORPHIDTRS the internal struc-ture, and MORPHIB.-kSE the base form.Each verb has a complex feature PREFIX locatedat SYNSEMILOCICAT.
FOr each prefix p, the valueof the subfeature PREFIXIp points to the adequateprefix meaning.
For example, if the instance of'dutch' corresponding to (2) is labelled dutch_l, weget PREFIX\]DURCtI: 1 in the lexical entry for 'eilen'.A verb can only combine with prefixes for whichan instance is specified at PREFIX.
Regarding se-mantics, we focus on aspectual classes.
The se-mantic framework chosen here is Lexical Concep-tual Structure, which has been applied successfidlyto the interface between morphology and lexical se-mantics by e.g.
(Rappaport Hovav and Levin, inpress).
The representation of "v~ndler classes isadapted from (Van Valin, 1990).
Class is specifiedat SYNSEMII, OClCONTENTICr, Ass.Prefix entries are heavily underspecified.
For ex-ample, the entry for "durch' can be derived fromFig.
2 by deleting all information specific tothe COMPlement "eilen'.
except for the value ofPREFIX\]DIRCII.
The semantics of the complex wordis composed at the head and then structure sharedwith the whole word, in accordance with the Seman-tics Principle.
A prefix can only be combined withverbs with an adequate feature value at PREFIX.4 Conc lus ion  and  Fur ther  WorkThe representation f the relevant semantics will for-realized more rigorously.
Hypotheses will be checkedwith the data, using a more refined, statistically mo-tivated notion of productivity.
The theory will alsobe implemented in an adequate lexical knowledge526MORPH'BASE cond_concat(V~, \[\])SYNSEM\[\] r,OCICONTJCLASS CAUSE \[ \ ]L,~,A,,s~ BECOME(\['3\], XOT IN r~)DTRS"MORPHIBASE \[ \ ]  'ellen'( \[c Assloo \[\] COMPSSYNSEMILOC CONT /NUC \[ \ ]  \[RELN eilen \]L \[AGENT \ [ \ ]  NP\]F, YNSEM \[ \ ]Figure 2: Partial lexical entry for 'durcheilen'.
4 refers to the direct object.
3 to the subjectrepresentation language.AcknowledgementsThanks to Bernhard SchrSder and three anonymousreviewers for their valuable comments.
This researchwas partially supported by the Studienstiftung desdeutschen Volkes and ERASMUS.ReferencesL.
Bauer.
1988.
Introducing Linguistic Morphology.Edinburgh University Press, Edinburgh.L.
Bauer.
1990.
Be-heading the word.
J. Linguis-tics, 26:1-31.R.
Binnick.
1992.
Time and the Verb.
Oxford Uni-versity Press, Oxford.B.
Comrie.
1992.
Aspect.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge.A.
Davis.
1997.
Lexical Semantics and Linking andthe Hierarchical Lexicon.
Ph.D. thesis, Depart-ment of Linguistics, Stanford University.D.
Kastovsky.
1986.
The problem of productivity inword-formation.
Linguistics, 24:585-600.A.
Kathol.
1995.
Linearization-Based German Syn-tax.
Ph.D. thesis, Department of Linguistics,Stanford University.H.-U.
Krieger and J. Nerbonne.
1992.
Feature-ba~sedinheritance networks for computational lexicons.In Ted Briscoe, Valeria de Paiva, and Ann Copes-take, editors, Inheritance, Defaults and the Lexi-con, chapter 7, pages 90-136.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press.M.
Light.
1996.
Morphological Cues for Lexieal Se-mantics.
Ph.D. thesis, Department of ComputerScience, University of Rochester.B.
Mayo, M.-T. Schepping, C. Schwarze, and A. Zal-fanella.
1995.
Semantics in the derivational mor-phology of Italian: implications for the structureof the lexicon.
Linguistics, 33:583-638.K.P.
Mohanan.
1987.
The Theory of Lexieal Phonol-ogy.
Reidel, Dordrecht.C.
Pollard and I.
Sag.
1994.
Head-Driven PhraseStructure Gramraar.
University of Chicago Press.M.
Rappaport Hovav and B. Levin.
in press.
Mor-phology and lexical semantics.
In A. Zwickyand A. Spencer.
editors.
Handbook of Morphology.Blackwell, Oxford.S.
Riehemann.
1993.
Word formation in lexical typehierarchies - a case study of bar-adjectives in Ger-man.
Master's thesis, Universit?t Tiibingen.
SfS-Report-02-93.R.D.
Van VMin.
1990.
Semantic parameters of splitintransitivity.
Language.
66:221-260.Z.
~ndler .
1957.
Verbs and times.
PhilosophicalReview, 56:143-160.J.
Witte.
1997.
CompositionM semantics for resul-tative separable prefix constructions in German.In Proe.
HPSG 4.527
