Improving Translation through Contextual InformationMai te  Taboada"Carnegie  Mel lon Univers i ty5000 Forbes AvenueP i t t sburgh ,  PA 15213t aboada+?cmu,  eduAbst rac tThis paper proposes a two-layered modelof dialogue structure for task-oriented i-alogues that processes contextual informa-tion and disambiguates speech acts.
Thefinal goal is to improve translation qualityin a speech-to-speech translation system.1 Ambigu i ty  in Speech  Trans la t ionFor any given utterance out of what we can looselycall context, there is usually more than one possibleinterpretation.
A speaker's utterance of an ellipti-cal expression, like the figure "'twelve fifteen", mighthave a different meaning depending on the context ofsituation, the way the conversation has evolved un-til that point, and the previous peaker's utterance.
"Twelve fifteen" could be the time "a quarter aftertwelve", the price "one thousand two hundred andfifteen", the room number "'one two one five", and soon.
Although English can conflate all those possiblemeanings into one expression, the translation intoother languages usually requires more specificity.If this is a problem for any human listener, theproblem grows considerably when it is a parser do-ing the disambiguation.
In this paper, I explain howwe can use discourse knowledge in order to help aparser disambiguate among different possible parsesfor an input sentence, with the final goal of improv-ing the translation in an end-to-end speech transla-tion system.The work described was conducted within theJANUS multi-lingual speech-to-speech translationsystem designed to  translate spontaneous dialoguein a limited domain (Lavie et al.
1996).
Themachine translation component of JANUS handlesthese problems using two different approaches: theGeneralized Left-to-Right parser GLR* (Lavie andTomita, 1993) and Phoenix.
the latter being the fo-cus of this paper.
*The author gratefully acknowledges support from "InCaixa" Fellowship Program.
ATR Interpreting Labora-tories, and Project Enthusias~.2 D isambiguat ion  throughContextua l  In fo rmat ionThis project addresses the problem of choosing themost appropriate semantic parse for any given in-put.
The approach is to combine discourse informa-tion with the set of possible parses provided by thePhoenix parser for an input string.
The discoursemodule selects one of these possibilities.
The deci-sion is to be based on:1.
The domain of the dialogue.
JANUS dealswith dialogues restricted to a domain, such asscheduling an appointment or making travel ar-rangements.
The general topic provides someinformation about what types of exchanges, andtherefore speech acts, can be expected.2.
The macro-structure of the dialogue up to thatpoint.
We can divide a dialogue into smaller,self-contained units that provide information onwhat phases are over or yet to be covered: Arewe past the greeting phase?
If a flight was re-served, should we expect a payment phase atsome point in the rest of the conversation'?3.
The structure of adjacency pairs (Schegloff andSacks, 1973), together with the responses tospeech functions (Halliday, 1994: Martin.
1992).If one speaker has uttered a request for infor-mation, we expect some sort of response to that- -  an answer, a disclaimer or a clarification.The domain of the dialogues, named travel plan-nin 9 domain, consists of dialogues where a customermakes travel arrangements with a travel agent ora hotel clerk to book hotel rooms, flights or otherforms of transportation.
They are task-oriented i-alogues, in which the speakers have specific goals ofcarrying out a task that involves the exchange ofboth intbrmation and services.Discourse processing is structured in two differentlevels: the context module keeps a global history ofthe conversation, from which it will be able to esti-mate, for instance, the likelihood of a greeting oncethe opening phase of the conversation is over.
Amore local history predicts the expected response in510any adjacency pair.
such as a question-answer se-quence.
The model adopted here is that of a two-layered finite state machine (henceforth FSM).
andthe approach is that of late-stage di.sarnbzguatlon.where as muci~ information as possible is collectedbefore proceeding on to disambiguation, rather thanrestricting the parser's earch earlier on.3 Representat ion  o f  Speech  Acts  inPhoen ixWriting tile appropriate grammars and deciding onthe set of speech acts for this domain is also an im-portant part of this project.
The selected speechacts are encoded in the grammar - -  in the Phoeni?case.
a semantic grammar - -  the tokens of whici~are concepts thac the segment in question represents.Any utterance is divided into SDUs - -  Semantic Di-alogue Units - -  which are fed to the parser one at atime.
SDUs represent a full concept, expression, orthought, but not necessarily a complete grammat i -cal sentence.
Let us take an example input, and apossible parse for it:(1) Could you tell me the prices at the Hol iday Inn?,\[request\] (COULD YOU;\[reques?-mfo} (TELL ME,'\[price-into\] (THE PRICES(\[establishment\] (AT THE, \[estabhshmenc-name\] (HOLIDAY INN))))))))))The top-level concepts of the grammar are speechacts themselves, the ones immediately after are fur-ther refinements of the speech act, and the lowerlevel concepts capture the specifics of the utterance.such as the name of the hotel in the above example.4 The  D iscourse  ProcessorThe discourse module processes the global and lo-cal structure of the dialogue in two different lay-ers.
The first one is a general organization oftile dialogue's ubparts: the layer under that pro-,:esses the possible sequence of speech acts in asubpart.
The assumption is that negotiation di-alogues develop m a predictable way - -  this as-sumption was also made for scheduling dialogues intile Verbmobil project (Maier, I096) - - .
with three,'lear phases: mlttalizatwn, negotiation, and dos-rag.
\Ve will call the middle phase in our dialoguesthe task performance phase, since it is not alwaysa negotiation per se.
Within the task performancephase very many subdialogues can take place, suchas intbrmation-seeking, decision-making, payment.clarification, etc.Disco trse processing has frequently made use of~equeuces of speech acts as they occur in the dia-logue, through bigram probabil it ies of occurrences.or through modell ing in a finite state machine.(31aier.
1.996: Reithinger e ta \ [ .
,  t9.96: Iida and Ya-maoka.
1990: Qu et al.
1996).
However.
taking intoaccount only the speech act of the previous egmentPhoenix P~l'~er?J~c 7.~?
3 .
!Discourse ~|oduleGlooal St~ctureLocal structurei ~ /  - I  i?vNrLal C l~e:i1~'~ Tree 2Figure 1: The  D iscourse  Modu lemight leave us with insufficient information to decide- -  as is the case in some elliptical utterances whichdo not follow a strict adjacency pair sequence:(2) (talking about flight times...}S1 \[ can .give you the arrival time.
Do youhave that information already'?S2 No.
\[ don't.$1 It's twelve fifteen.If we are in parsing tile segment "'It's twelve fif-teen", and our only source of information is the pre-vious segment.
"'No.
\[ don ' t ' ,  we cannot possiblyfind tile referent for "'twelve fifteen", unless we knowwe are in a subdialogue discussing flight times, andarrival times have been previously mentioned.Our approach aims at obtaining information bothfrom the subdialogue structure and the speech actsequence by modell ing the global structure of tile di-alogue with a FSM.
with opening and c los ing  asinitial and final states, and other possible subdia-logues in the intervening states.
Each one of thosestates contains a FSAI itself, which determines theallowed speech acts in a given subdialogue and theirsequence.
For a picture of the discourse componenthere proposed, see Figure I.Let us look at another example where the useof information on the previous context and on tilespeaker aIternance will help choose the most appro-priate parse and thus achieve a better translation.511The expression "okay" can be a prompt for an an-swer (3), an acceptance of a previous offer (4) ora backchanneling element, i.e., an acknowledgementthat the previous speaker's utterance has been un-derstood (5).
(3) $1 So we'll switch you to a double room.
okay?
(4) S1 So we'll switch you to a double room.$2 Okay.
(5) S1 The double room is $90 a night.$2 Okay, and how much is a single room?In example (3), we will know that "okay" is aprompt, because it is uttered by the speaker afterhe or she has made a suggestion.
In example (4), itwill be an acceptance because it is uttered after theprevious speaker's uggestion.
And in (5) it is anacknowledgment of the information provided.
Thecorrect assignment ofspeech acts will provide a moreaccurate translation into other languages.To summarize, the two-layered FSM models a con-versation through transitions of speech acts that areincluded in subdialogues.
When the parser returnsan ambiguity in the form of two or more possiblespeech acts, the FSM will help decide which one isthe most appropriate given the context.There are situations where the path followed inthe two layers of the structure does not match theparse possibility we are trying to accept or reject.One such situation is the presence of clarificationand correction subdialogues at any point in the con-versation.
In that case, the processor will try tojump to the upper layer, in order to switch the sub-dialogue under consideration.
We also take into ac-count the situation where there is no possible choice,either because the FSM does not restrict the choicei.e., the FSM allows all the parses returned bythe parser - -  or because the model does not allowany of them.
In either of those cases, the transitionis determined by unigram probabilities of the speechact in isolation, and bigrams of the combination ofthe speech act we are trying to disambiguate plus itspredecessor.5 Eva luat ionThe discourse module is being developed on a set of29 dialogues, totalling 1,393 utterances.
An evalu-ation will be performed on 10 dialogues, previouslyunseen by the discourse module.
Since the mod-ule can be either incorporated into the system, orturned off, the evaluation will be on the system'sperformance with and without the discourse module,Independent graders assign a grade to the qualityof the translation 1.
A secondary evaluation will beIThe final results of this evaluation will be availableat the time of the ACL conference.based on the quality of the speech act disambigua-tion itself, regardless of its contribution to transla-tion quality.6 Conc lus ion  and  Future  WorkIn this paper I have presented a model of dialoguestructure in two layers, which processes the sequenceof subdialogues and speech acts in task-orienteddialogues in order to select the most appropriatefrom the ambiguous parses returned by the Phoenixparser.
The model structures dialogue in two lev-els of finite state machines, with the final goal ofimproving translation quality.A possible extension to the work here describedwould be to generalize the two-layer model to other.less homogeneous domains.
The use of statisticalinformation in different parts of the processing, suchas the arcs of the FSM, could enhance performance.Re ferencesMichael A. K. Halliday.
1994.
An Introduction to Func-tional Grammar.
Edward Arnold, London (2nd edi-tion).Hitoshi lida and Takyuki Yamaoka.
1990.
DialogueStructure Analysis Method and Its Application to Pre-dicting the Next Utterance.
Dialogue Structure Anal-ysis.
German-Japanese Workshop, Kyoto, Japan.Alon Lavie, Donna Gates, Marsal Gavaldh, Laura May-field, Alex Waibet, Lori Levin.
1996.
Multi-lingualTranslation of Spontaneously Spoken Language in aLimited Domain.
In Proceedings o.f COLING 96.Copenhagen.Alon Lavie and Masaru Tomita.
1993.
GLR*: An Ef-ficient Noise Skipping Parsing Algorithm for ContextFree Grammars.
In Proceedings o.f the Third \[nterna-tional Workshop on Parsing Technologies, \ [WPT 93,Tilburg, The Netherlands.Elisabeth Maier.
1996.
Context Construction as Sub-task of Dialogue Processing: The Verbmobil Case.
InProceedings of the Eleventh Twente Workshop on Lan-guage Technology.
TWLT 11.James Martin.
1992.
English Text: System and Struc-ture.
John Benjamins.
Philadelphia/Amsterdam.
'fan Qu, Barbara Di Eugenio, Alon Lavie, Lori Levin.1996.
Minimizing Cumulative Error in Discourse Con-text.
In Proceedings o\] ECAI 96, Budapest, Hungary.Norbert Reithinger, Ralf Engel, Michael Kipp.
MartinKlesen.
1996.
Predicting Dialogue Acts for a Speech-to-Speech Translation System.
In Proceedings of IC-SLP 96, Philadelphia, USA.Emmanuel Schegloff and Harvey Sacks.
1973.
Openingup Closings.
Semiotica 7, pages 289-327.Wayne Ward.
1991.
Understanding SpontaneousSpeech: the Phoenix System.
In Proceedings ofICASSP 91.512
