Expectations in Incremental Discourse ProcessingDan Cr is teaFacu l ty  of Computer  ScienceUn ivers i ty  "A. I .
Cuza"16, Ber the lo t  Street6600 - Iasi, Romaniadcristea@infoiasi, roBonn ie  WebberDept .
of Computer  L: In fo rmat ion  ScienceUn ivers i ty  of Pennsy lvan ia200 South  33rd StreetPh i lade lph ia  PA 19104-6389 USAbonnie?central, cis.
upenn, eduAbst rac tThe way in which discourse features ex-press connections back to the previous dis-course has been described in the literaturein terms of adjoining at the right frontierof discourse structure.
But this does notallow for discourse features that express ez-pectations about what is to come in thesubsequent discourse.
After characterizingthese expectations and their distribution intext, we show how an approach that makesuse of substitution as well as adjoining on asuitably defined right frontier, can be usedto both process expectations and constraindiscouse processing in general.1 In t roduct ionDiscourse processing subsumes everal distinguish-able but interlinked processes.
These include refer-ence and ellipsis resolution, inference (e.g., inferen-tial processes associated with focus particles uch as,in English, "even" and "only"), and identification ofthose structures underlying a discourse that are as-sociated with coherence relations between its units.In the course of developing an incremental pproachto the latter, we noticed a variety of constructionsin discourse that raise expectations about its futurestructural features.
We found that we could rep-resent such expectations by adopting a lexical vari-ant of TAG - LTAG (Schabes, 1990) - and usingits substitution operation as a complement to ad-joining.
Perhaps more interesting was that theseexpectations appeared to constrain the subsequentdiscourse until they were resolved.
This we foundwe could model in terms of constraints on adjoiningand substitution with respect o a suitably definedRight Frontier.
This short paper focuesses on thephenomenon of these expectations in discourse andtheir expression in a discourse-level LTAG.
We con-elude the paper with some thoughts on incrementaldiscourse processing in light of these expectations.The following examples illustrate the creation ofexpectations through discourse markers:Example 1a.
On the one hand, John is very generous.b.
On the other, he is extremely difficult to find.Example 2a.
On the one hand, John is very generous.b.
On the other, suppose you needed some money.c.
You'd see that he's very difficult to find.Example 3a.
On the one hand, John is very generous.b.
For example, suppose you needed some money.c.
You would just have to ask him for it.b.
On the other hand, he is very difficult to find.Example 1 illustrates the expectation that, follow-ing a clause marked "on the one hand", the discoursewill express a constrasting situation (here markedby "on the other").
Examples 2 and 3 illustratethat such an expectation eed not be satisfied im-mediately by the next clause: In Example 2, clause(b) partially resolves the expectation set up in (a),but introduces an expectation that the subsequentdiscourse will indicate what happens in such cases.That expectation is then resolved in clause (c).
InExample 3, the next two clauses do nothing to sat-isfy the expectation raised in clause (a): rather, theygive evidence for the claim made in (a).
The expec-tation raised in (a) is not resolved until clause (d).These examples how expectations raised by sen-tential adverbs and the imperative use of the verb"suppose".
Subordinate conjunctions (e.g., "justas", "although", "when", etc.)
can lead to similarexpectations when they appear in a preposed subor-dinate clause - eg.Example 4a.
Although John is very generous,b.
if you should need some money,c.
you'd see that he's difficult to find.As in Example 2, clause 4(a) raises the expectationof learning what is nevertheless the case.
Clause 4(b)partially satisfies that expectation by raising a hy-88pothetical situation, along with the expectation oflearning what is true in such a situation.
This latterexpectation is then satisfied in clause 4(c).In summary, these expectations can be charac-terized as follows: (1) once raised, an expectationmust be resolved, but its resolvant can be a clausethat raises its own expectations; (2) a clause rais-ing an expectation can itelf be elaborated beforethat expectation is resolved, including elaborationby clauses that raise their own expectations; and (3)the most deeply "embedded" expectations must al-ways be resolved first.Now these are very likely not the only kinds ofexpectations to be found in discourse: Wheneverevents or behavior follow fairly regular patterns overtime, observers develop expectations about what willcome next or at least eventually.
For example, a di-alogue model may embody the expectation that asuggestion made by one dialogue participant wouldeventually be followed by an explicit or implicit re-jection, acceptance or tabling by the other.
Other di-alogue actions such as clarifications or justificationsmay intervene, but there is a sense of an expectationbeing resolved when the suggestion is responded to.Here we are focussed on discourse at the level ofindividual monologue or turn within a larger dis-course: what we show is that discourse manifests cer-tain forward-looking patterns that have similar con-straints to those of sentence-level syntax and can behandled by similar means.
One possible reason thatthese particualr kinds of expressions may not havebeen noticed before is that in non-incremental p-proaches to discourse processing (Mann and Thomp-son, 1988; Marcu, 1996), they don't stand out asobviously different.The labels for discourse coherence relations usedhere are similar to those of RST (Mann and Thomp-son, 1988), but for simplicity, are treated as binary.Since any multi-branching tree can be converted to abinary tree, no representational power is lost.
In do-ing this, we follow several recent converging compu-tational approaches to discourse analysis, which arealso couched in binary terms (Gardent, 1997; Marcu,1996; Polanyi and van den Berg, 1996; Schilder,1997; van den Berg, 1996).Implicit in our discussion is the view that inprocessing a discourse incrementally, its semanticsand pragmatics are computed compositionally fromthe structure reflected in the coherence relationsbetween its units.
In the figures presented here,non-terminal nodes in a discourse structure are la-belled with coherence relations merely to indicatethe functions that project appropriate content, be-liefs and other side effects into the recipient's dis-course model.
This view is, we believe, consistentwith the more detailed formal interfaces to discoursesemantics/pragmatics presented in (Gardent, 1997;Schilder, 1997; van den Berg, 1996), and also allowsfor multiple discourse relations (intentional and in-formational) to hold between discourse units (Mooreand Pollack, 1992; Moser and Moore, 1995; Moserand Moore, 1996) and contribute to the seman-tic/pragmatics effects on the recipient's discoursemodel.2 Expectat ions  in CorporaThe examples given in the Introduction were all"minimal pairs" created to illustrate the relevantphenomenon as succinctly as possible.
Empiricalquestions thus include: (1) the range of lexico-syntactic onstructions that raise expectations withthe specific properties mentioned above; (2) the fre-quency of expectation-raising constructions in text;(3) the frequency with which expectations are sat-isfied immediately, as opposed to being delayed bymaterial that elaborates the unit raising the expec-tation; (4) the frequency of embedded expectations;and (5) features that provide evidence for an expec-tation being satisfied.While we do not have answers to all these ques-tions, a very preliminary analysis of the Brown Cor-pus, a corpus of approximately 1600 email messages,and a short Romanian text by T. Vianu (approx.5000 words) has yielded some interesting results.First, reviewing the 270 constructions that Knotthas identified as potential cue phrases in the BrownCorpus 1, one finds 15 adverbial phrases (such as"initially", "at first", "to start with", etc.)
whosepresence in a clause would lead to an expectationbeing raised.
All left-extraposed clauses in Englishraise expectations (as in Example 4) so all the sub-ordinate conjunctions in Knott's list would be in-cluded as well.
Outside of cue phrases, we have iden-tified imperative forms of "suppose" and "consider"as raising expectations, but currently lack a moresystematic procedure for identifying expectation-raising constructions in text than hand-combing textfor them.With respect to how often expectation-raisingconstructions appear in text, we have Brown Cor-pus data on two specific types - imperative "sup-pose" and adverbial "on the one hand" - as well asa detailed analysis of the Romanian text by Vianumentioned earlier.There are approximately 54K sentences in theBrown Corpus.
Of these, 37 contain imperative"suppose" or "let us suppose".
Twelve of these cor-respond to "what if" questions or negotiation moveswhich do not raise expectations:Suppose - jus t  suppose this guy was reallywhat he said he was!
A retired professionalkiller If he was just a nut, no harm wasdone.
But if he was the real thing, he coulddo something about Lolly.
(c123)1 Personal communication, but also see (Knott, 1996)89Alec leaned on the desk, holding the clerk'seyes with his.
"Suppose you tell me thereal reason", he drawled.
"There might bea story in it".
(c121)The remaining 25 sentences constitute only about0.05% of the Brown Corpus.
Of these, 22 have theirexpectations satisfied immediately (88%) - for ex-ample,Suppose John Jones, who, for 1960, filedon the basis of a calendar year, died June20, 1961.
His return for the period January1 to June 20, 1961, is due April 16, 1962.One is followed by a single sentence laborating theoriginal supposition (also flagged by "suppose") -"Suppose it was not us that killed thesealiens.
Suppose it is something right on theplanet, native to it.
I just hope it doesn'twork on Earthmen too.
These critters wentreal sudden".
(cmO~)while the remaining two contain multi-sentence elab-orations of the original supposition.
None of the ex-amples in the Brown Corpus contains an embeddedexpectation.The adverbial "on the one hand" is used to posea contrast either phrasally -Both plans also prohibited common direc-tors, officers, or employees between DuPont, Christiana, and Delaware, on the onehand, and General Motors on the other.
(ch16)You couldn't on the one hand decry thearts and at the same time practice them,could you?
(ck08)or clausally.
It is only the latter that are of interestfrom the point of discourse xpectations.The Brown Corpus contains only 7 examples ofadverbial "on the one hand".
In three cases, theexpectation is satisfied immediately by a clause cuedby "but" or "or" -e .g .On the one hand, the Public Health Ser-vice declared as recently as October 26 thatpresent radiation levels resulting from theSoviet shots "do not warrant undue publicconcern" or any action to limit the intakeof radioactive substances by individuals orlarge population groups anywhere in theAj.
But the PHS conceded that the newradioactive particles "will add to the riskof genetic effects in succeeding enerations,and possibly to the risk of health damage tosome people in the United States".
(cb21)In the remaining four cases, satisfaction of the ex-pectation (the "target" contrast item) is delayed by2-3 sentences elaborating the "source" contrast item- -  e .g .Brooklyn College students have an ambiva-lent attitude toward their school.
On theone hand, there is a sense of not havingmoved beyond the ambiance of their highschool.
This is particularly acute for thosewho attended Midwood High School di-rectly across the street from Brooklyn Col-lege.
They have a sense of marginality atbeing denied that special badge of status,the out-of-town school.
At the same time,there is a good deal of self-congratulationat attending a good college .
.. (cf25)In these cases, the target contrast item is cued by"on the other hand" in three cases and "at the sametime" in the case given above.
Again, none of theexamples contains an embedded expectation.
(The much smaller email corpus contained six ex-amples of clausal "on the one hand", with the targetcontrast cued by "on the other hand","on the other"or "at the other extreme".
In one case, there was noexplicit target contrast and the expectation raisedby "on the one hand" was never satisfied.
We willcontinue to monitor for such examples.
)Before concluding with a close analysis of the Ro-manian text, we should note that in both the BrownCorpus and the email corpus, clausal adverbial "onthe other hand" occurs more frequently without anexpectation-raising "on the one hand" than it doeswith one.
(Our attention was called to this by afrequency analysis of potential cue phrase instancesin the Brown Corpus compiled for us by AlistairKnott and Andrei Mikheev, HCRC, University ofEdinburgh.)
We found 53 instances of clausal "onthe other hand" occuring without an explicit sourcecontrast cued earlier.
Although one can only specu-late now on the reason for this phenomenon, it doesmake a difference to incremental analysis, as we tryto show in Section 3.3.The Romanian text that has been closely anal-ysed for explicit expectation-raising constructions iT.
Vianu's Aesthetics.
It contains 5160 words and382 discourse units (primarily clauses).
Countingpreposed gerunds as raising expectations as well ascounting the constructions noted previously, 39 in-stances of expectation-raising discourse units wereidentified (10.2%).
In 11 of these cases, 1-16 dis-course units intervened before the raised expectationwas satisfied.
One example follows:Dar de~i trebuie s~-l parcurgem inintregime, pentru a orienta cercetarea estenevoie s~.
incerc~m inc~ de pe acum o pre-cizare a obiectului lui.
(But although we must cover it entirely, inorder to guide the research we need to tryalready an explanation of its subject mat-ter.
)903 A Grammar  fo r  D iscourseThe intuitive appeal of Tree-adjoining Grammar(TAG) (Joshi, 1987) for discourse processing (Gar-dent, 1997; Polanyi and van den Berg, 1996;Schilder, 1997; van den Berg, 1996; Webber, 1991)follows from the fact that TAG's adjoining operationallows one to directly analyse the current discourseunit as a sister to previous discourse material thatit stands in a particular elation to.
The new in-tuition presented here - that expectations convey adependency between the current discourse unit andfuture discourse material, a dependency that canbe "stretched" long-distance by intervening mate-rial - more fully exploits TAG's ability to expressdependencies.
By expressing in an elementary TAGtree, a dependency betwen the current discourse unitand future discourse material and using substitu-tion (Schabes, 1990) when the expected material isfound, our TAG-based approach to discourse pro-cessing allows expectations to be both raised andresolved.3.1 Categories and OperationsThe categories of our TAG-based approach consistof nodes and binary trees.
We follow (Gardent,1997) in associating nodes with feature structuresthat may hold various sorts of information, includinginformation about the semantic interpretations pro-jected through the nodes, constraints on the specificoperations a node may participate in, etc.
A non-terminal node represents a discourse relation holdingbetween its two daughter nodes.
A terminal nodecan be either non-empty (Figure la), correspondingto a basic discourse unit (usually a clause), or empty.A node is "empty" only in not having an associateddiscourse unit or relation: it can still have an asso-ciated feature structure.
Empty nodes play a rolein adjoining and substitution, as explained below,and hence in building the derived binary tree thatrepresents the structure of the discourse.Adjoining adds to the discourse structure an aux-iliary tree consisting of a root labelled with a dis-course relation, an empty foot node (labelled *), andat least one non-empty node (Figures lc and ld).
Inour approach, the foot node of an auxiliary tree mustbe its leftmost erminal because all adjoining oper-ations take place on a suitably defined right frontier(i.e., the path from the root of a tree to its rightmostleaf node) - such that all newly introduced mate-rial lies to the right of the adjunction site.
(This isdiscussed in Section 3.2 in more detail.)
Adjoiningcorresponds to identifying a discourse relation be-tween the new material and material in the previousdiscourse that is still open for elaboration.Figure 2(a) illustrates adjoining midway down theRF of tree a, while Figure 2(b) illustrates adjoiningat the root of a 's RF.
Figure 2(c) shows adjoiningat the "degenerate" case of a tree that consists onlyof its root.
Figure 2(d) will be explained shortly.Substitution unifies the root of a substitutionstructure with an empty node in the discourse treethat serves as a substitution site.
We currentlyuse two kinds of substitution structures: non-emptynodes (Figure la) and elementary trees with substi-tution sites (Figure lb).
The latter are one way bywhich a substitution site may be introduced into atree.
As will be argued shortly, substitution sites canonly appear on the right of an elementary tree, al-though any number of them may appear there (Fig-ure lb).
Figure 2(e) illustrates ubstitution of a non-empty node at ~, and Figure 2(f) illustrates ubstitu-tion of an elementary tree with its own substitutionsite at ~1Since in a clause with two discourse markers (asin Example 3b) one may look backwards ("for exam-ple") while the other looks forwards ("suppose"), wealso need a way of introducing expectations in thecontext of adjoining.
This we do by allowing an aux-iliary tree to contain substitution sites (Figure ld)which, as above, can only appear on its right.
2 An-other term we use for auxiliary trees is adjoiningstructures.3.2 ConstraintsEarlier we noted that in a discourse structure withno substitution sites, adjoining is limited to the rightfrontier (RF).
This is true of all existing TAG-basedapproaches to discourse processing (Gardent, 1997;Hinrichs and Polanyi, 1986; Polanyi and van denBerg, 1996; Schilder, 1997; Webber, 1991), whosestructures correspond to trees that lack substitutionsites.
One reason for this RF restriction is to main-tain a strict correspondence b tween a left-to-rightreading of the terminal nodes of a discourse struc-ture and the text it analyses - i.e.,Pr inc ip le  of  Sequentia l i ty:  A left-to-right reading of the terminal frontier of thetree associated with a discourse must cor-respond to the span of text it analyses inthat same left-to-right order.Formal proof that this principle leads to the restric-tion of adjoining to the right frontier is given in(Cristea and Webber, June 1997).The Principle of Sequentiality leads to additionalconstraints on where adjoining and substitution canoccur in trees with substitution sites.
Consider thetree in Figure 3(i), which has two such sites, and anadjoining operation on the right frontier at node Rjor above.
Figure 3(it) shows that this would intro-duce a non-empty node (uk) above and to the rightof the substitution sites.
This would mean that latersubstitution at either of them would lead to a viola-tion of the Principle of Sequentiality, since the newly~We currently have no linguistic evidence for thestructure labelled ~ in Figure ld, but are open to itspossibility.9\]Ua.
One-node tree(Non-empty node){2 , Ub.
Elementary trees c. Auxiliary treeswith substitution sitesU*~I  * Ud.
Aux trees withsubstitution sitesFigure 1: Grammat ica l  Categories.
(* marks the foot of an auxil iary tree, and l ,  a subst i tut ion site.
)R i Rk R i R2(a) Adjoining at Ri+2 on the RF of a (b) Adjoining at the root (R1) of.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.u , 11(c) Adjoining at root of single node tree ?xRI R 1R 31 1(d) Adjoining at R3 on the right frontier of ot~ ~'~ ~ ~- -  R 2u 1(e) Substituting a material node at I (f) Substituting at elementary pntree with substitution site2Figure 2: Examples of Adjoining and Substitution92/~Rjl ~k dRj'l(ii) (iii)Figure 3: Adjoining is constrained to nodes the inner_RF, indicated by the dashed arrow.substituted node u~+t would then appear to the leftof uk in the terminal frontier, but to the right ofit in the original discourse.
Adjoining at any nodeabove Rj+2 - the left sister of the most deeply em-bedded substitution site - leads to the same problem(Figure 3iii).
Thus in a tree with substitution sites,adjoining must be limited to nodes on the path fromthe left sister of the most embedded site to that sis-ter's rightmost descendent.
But this is just a rightfrontier (RF) rooted at that left sister.
Thus, ad-joining is always limited to a RF: the presence of asubstitution site just changes what node that RF isrooted at.
We can call a RF rooted at the left sisterof the most embedded substitution site, the innerright frontier or "inner_RF".
(In Figure 3(i), the in-ner_RF is indicated by a dashed arrow.)
In contrast,we sometimes call the RF of a tree without substi-tution sites, the outer right frontier or "outer_RF".Figure 2(d) illustrates adjoining on the inner_RF ofa, a tree with a substitution site labelled h .Another consequence of the Principle of Sequen-tiality is that the only node at which substitutionis allowed in a tree with substitution sites is at themost embedded one.
Any other substitution wouldviolate the principle.
(Formal proof of these claimsare given in (Cristea and Webber, June 1997).3.3 ExamplesBecause we have not yet implemented a parser thatembodies the ideas presented so far, we give herean idealized analysis of Examples 2 and 3, to showhow an ideal incremental monotonic algorithm thatadmitted expectations would work.Figure 4A illustrates the incremental analysis ofExample 2.
Figure 4A(i) shows the elementary treecorresponding to sentence 2a ("On the one hand.
.
. "
) :  the interpretation of "John is very generous"Icorresponds to the left daughter labelled "a".
Theadverbial "On the one hand" is taken as signalling acoherence relation of Cont rast  with something ex-pected later in the discourse.In sentence 2b ("On the other hand, suppose.
.
. "
) ,  the adverbial "On the other hand" signalsthe expected contrast item.
Because it is al-ready expected, the adverbial does not lead to thecreation of a separate elementary tree (but seethe next example).
The imperative verb "sup-pose", however, signals a coherence relation of an-tecedent /consequent  (A/C) with a consequenceexpected later in the discourse.
The elementarytree corresponding to "suppose .
.
. "
is shown inFigure 4A(ii), with the interpretation of "you needmoney" corresponding to the left daughter labelled"b".
Figure 4A(iii) shows this elementary tree sub-stituted at ~1, satisfying that expectation.
Fig-ure 4A(iv) shows the interpretation of sentence 2c("You'd see he's very difficult to find") substitutedat 12, satisfying that remaining expectation.Before moving on to Example 3, notice that if Sen-tence 2a were not explicitly cued with "On the otherhand", the analysis would proceed somewhat differ-ently.Example 5a.
John is very generous.b.
On the other hand, suppose you needed money.c.
You'd see that he's very difficult to find.Here, the interpretation of sentence 5(a) would cor-respond to the degenerate case of a tree consisting ofa single non-empty node shown in Figure 4B(i).
Thecontrast introduced by "On the other hand" in sen-tence 5(b) leads to the auxiliary tree shown in Fig-ure 4B(ii), where T stands for the elementary treecorresponding to the interpretation of "suppose.
.
."
.93Contrast A/C Contrast Contrastb ~2 b(i) (ii) (iii) (iv)Contrast Contrast Contrast Contrast?
aa ?
T C ~" a A/Cb ~l b ~!
b(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v)Contrast(i)ContrastEv id~Xx ~"CODContrast Contrastb b c(ii i) (iv)Figure 4: Analyses of Examples 2, 3 and 4.A.
Example 2B.
Example 5C.
Example 3The entire structure associated with sentence 5(b)is shown in Figure 4B(iii).
This is adjoined to thesingle node tree in Figure 4B(i), yielding the treeshown in Figure 4B(iv).
The analysis then contin-ues exactly as in that of Example 2 above.Moving on to Example 3, Figure 4C(i) shows thesame elementary tree as in Figure 4A(i) correspond-ing to clause 3a.
Next, Figure 4C(ii) shows the aux-iliary tree with substitution site ~2 corresponding toclause 3b being adjoined as a sister to the interpre-tation of clause 3a, as evidence for the claim madethere.
The right daughter of the node labelled "Ev-idence" is, as in Example 2b, an elementary treeexpecting the consequence of the supposition "youneed money".
Figure 4C(iii) shows the interpreta-tion of clause 3c substituted at ~2, satisfying thatexpectation.
Finally, Figure 4C(iv) shows the inter-pretation of clause 3d substituted at 11, satisfyingthe remaining expectation.4 Sources  o f  Uncer ta in tyThe idealized analysis presented above could leadto a simple deterministic incremental algorithm, ifthere were no uncertainty due to local or global am-biguity.
But there is.
We can identify three separatesources of uncertainty that would affect incrementalprocessing according to the grammar just presented:?
the identity of the discourse relation that ismeant to hold between two discourse units;?
the operation (adjoining or substitution) to beused in adding one discourse unit onto another;?
if that operation is adjoining, the site in thetarget unit at which the operation should takeplace - that is, the other argument o the dis-course relation associated with the root of theauxiliary tree.It may not be obvious that there could be uncer-tainty as to whether the current discourse unit sat-isfies an expectation and therefore substitutes intothe discourse structure, or elaborates omething inthe previous discourse, and therefore adjoins intoit.
3 But the evidence clarifying this local ambiguitymay not be available until later in the discourse.
Inthe following variation of Example 4, the fact thatclause (b) participates in elaborating the interpreta-tion of clause (a) rather than in satisfying the expec-tation it raises (which it does in Example 4) may notbe unambiguously clear until the discourse marker"for example" in clause (c) is processed.Example  6a.
Because John is such a generous man -b. whenever he is asked for money,c.
he will give whatever he has, for example -d. he deserves the "Citizen of the Year" award.The other point is that, even if a forward-lookingcue phrase signals only a substitution structure as3This is not the same as shift-reduce uncert~nty.94in Figure 4A(i) and 4A(ii), if there are no pendingsubsitution sites such as ~1 in 4A(i) against which tounify such a structure, then the substitution struc-ture must be coerced to an auxiliary tree as in Fig-ure ld (with some as yet unspecified cohesion rela-tion) in order to adjoin it somewhere in the currentdiscourse structure.5 Specu la t ions  and  Conc lus ionsIn this paper, we have focussed on discourse xpec-tations associated with forward-looking clausal con-nectives, sentential dverbs and the imperative verbs("suppose" and "consider").
There is clearly moreto be done, including a more complete characteri-zation of the phenomenon and development of anincremental discourse processor based on the ideaspresented above.
The latter would, we believe, haveto be coupled with incremental sentence-level pro-cessing.
As the previous examples have shown, thesame phenomenon that occurs inter-sententially inExamples 1-3 occurs intra-sententially in Examples 4and 6, suggesting that the two processors may bebased on identical principles.
In addition, carryingout sentence-level processing in parallel with dis-course processing and allowing each to inform theother would allow co-reference interpretation to fol-low from decisions about discourse relations and viceversa.6 AcknowledgementsSupport for this work has come from the De-partment of Computer Science, Universiti SainsMalaysia (Penang, Malaysia), the Department ofComputer Science, University "A.I.Cuza" (Iasi, Ro-mania) and the Advanced Research Project Agency(ARPA) under grant N6600194C6-043 and theArmy Research Organization (ARO) under grantDAAHO494GO426.
Thanks go to both the anony-mous reviewers and the following colleagues for theirhelpful comments: Michael Collins, Claire Gardent,Udo Hahn, Joseph Rosenzweig, Donia Scott, MarkSteedman, Matthew Stone, Michael Strube, andMichael Zock.
Thanks also to Alistair Knott andAndrei Mikheev for giving us a rough count of cuephrases in the Brown Corpus.Re ferencesCristea, Dan and Bonnie Webber.
June 1997.
Ex-pectations in incremental discourse processing.Technical report, University A.I.
Cuza, Iasi, Ro-mania.Gardent, Claire.
1997.
Discourse tree adjoininggrammars.
Claus report nr.89, University of theSaarland, Saarbriicken.ttinrichs, Erhard.and Livia Polanyi.
1986.
Pointingthe way: A unified treatment of referential ges-ture in interactive discourse.
In CLS 22, Part2: Papers from the Parasession on Pragmaticsand Grammatical Theory, pages 298-314, ChicagoLinguistic Society.Joshi, Aravind.
1987.
An introduction to Tree Ad-joining Grammar.
In Alexis Manaster-Ramer, ed-itor, Mathematics of Language.
John Benjamins,Amsterdam.Knott, Alistair.
1996.
A Data-driven Methodol-ogy for Motivating a Set of Coherence Relations.Ph.D.
thesis, Department ofArtificial Intelligence,University of Edinburgh.Mann, William and Sandra Thompson.
1988.Rhetorical structure theory: Toward a functionaltheory of text organization.
Text, 8(3):243-281.Marcu, Daniel.
1996.
Building up rhetorical struc-ture trees.
In Proceedings of AAAI-96, pages1069-1074, Portland OR.Moore, Johanna and Martha Pollack.
1992.
A prob-lem for rst: The need for multi-level discouse anal-ysis.
Computational Linguistics, 18(4):537-544.Moser, Megan and Johanna Moore.
1995.
Inves-tigating cue selection and placement in tutorialdiscourse.
In Proc.
33rd Annual Meeting, Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, pages 130-135, MIT, Boston MA.Moser, Megan and Johanna Moore.
1996.
Towarda synthesis of two accounts of discourse structure.Computational Linguistics, 22(2):TBA.Polanyi, Livia and Martin H. van den Berg.
1996.Discourse structure and discourse interpretation.In P. Dekker and M. Stokhof, editors, Proceedingsof the Tenth Amsterdam Colloquium, pages 113-131, ILLC/Department of Philosophy, Universityof Amsterdam.Schabes, Yves.
1990.
Mathematical and Compu-tational Aspects of Lexicalized Grammars.
Ph.D.thesis, Department of Computer and InformationScience, University of Pennsylvania.
TechnicalReport MS-CIS-90-48, LINC Lab 179.Schilder, Frank.
1997.
Tree discourse grammar, orhow to get attached to a discourse.
In Proceedingsof the Tilburg Conference on Formal Semantics,Tilburg, Netherlands, January.van den Berg, Martin H. 1996.
Discourse grammarand dynamic logic.
In P. Dekker and M. Stokhof,editors, Proceedings of the Tenth Amsterdam Col-loquium, pages 93-111, ILLC/Department of Phi-losophy, University of Amsterdam.Webber, Bonnie.
1991.
Structure and ostensionin the interpretation of discourse deixis.
NaturalLanguage and Cognitive Processes, 6(2):107-135.95
