Integrating Symbolic and Statistical Representations:The Lexicon Pragmatics InterfaceAnn CopestakeCenter for the Study of Language and Information,Stanford University,Ventura Hall,Stanford, CA 94305,USAaac~csl?, stanford, eduAlex  Lascar idesCentre for Cognitive Science andHuman Communication Research Centre,University of Edinburgh,2, Buccleuch Place,Edinburgh, EH8 9LW,Scotland, UKalex@cogsci, ed.
ac.
ukAbst rac tWe describe a formal framework for inter-pretation of words and compounds in adiscourse context which integrates a sym-bolic lexicon/grammar, word-sense proba-bilities, and a pragmatic omponent.
Theapproach is motivated by the need to han-dle productive word use.
In this paper,we concentrate on compound nominals.We discuss the inadequacies of approacheswhich consider compound interpretation aseither wholly lexico-grammatical or whollypragmatic, and provide an alternative inte-grated account.1 In t roduct ionVVhen words have multiple senses, these may havevery different frequencies.
For example, the first twosenses of the noun diet given in WordNet are:O1.
(a prescribed selection of foods)=> fare - (the food and drink that are regularlyconsumed)2.
=> legislature, legislative assembly, general as-sembly, law-makers\]k|ost English speakers will share the intuition thatthe first sense is much more common than the sec-ond, and that this is (partly) a property of the wordand not its denotation, since near-synonyms oc-cur with much greater frequency.
Frequency differ-ences are also found between senses of derived forms(including morphological derivation, zero-derivationand compounding).
For example, canoe is less fre-quent as a verb than as a noun.
and the induced ac-tion use (e.g., they canoed the kids across the lake) ismuch less frequent han the intransitive form (withlocation PP) (they canoed across the lake).
1 A de-rived form may become stablished with one mean-ing, but this does not preclude other uses in suffi-ciently marked contexts (e.g., Bauer's (1983) exam-ple of garbage man with an interpretation analogousto snowman).Because of the difficulty of resolving lexical am-biguity, it is usual in NLP applications to exclude'rare' senses from the lexicon, and to explicitly listfrequent forms, rather than to derive them.
But thisincreases errors due to unexpected vocabulary, espe-cially for highly productive derivational processes.For this and other reasons it is preferable to as-sume some generative devices in the lexicon (Puste-jovsky, 1995).
Briscoe and Copestake (1996) arguethat a differential estimation of the productivity ofderivation processes allows an approximation of theprobabilities of previously unseen derived uses.
Ifmore probable senses are preferred by the system,the proliferation of senses that results from uncon-strained use of lexical rules or other generative de-vices is effectively controlled.
An interacting issue isthe granularity of meaning of derived forms.
If thelexicon produces a small number of very underspeci-fled senses for a wordform, the ambiguity problem isapparently reduced, but pragmatics may have insuf-ficient information with which to resolve meanings,or may find impossible interpretations.We argue here that by utilising probabilities, alanguage-specific component can offer hints to apragmatic module in order to prioritise and con-trol the application of real-world reasoning to disam-biguation.
The objective is an architecture utilisinga general-purpose l xicon with domain-dependentprobabilities.
The particular issues we consider hereare the integration of the statistical and symboliccomponents, and the division of labour between se-1Here and below we base our frequency judgementson semi-automatic analysis of the written portion of thetagged British National Corpus (BNC).136Arzttermin *doctor appointment doctor's appointmentTerminvorschlag * date proposalTerminvereinbarung * date agreementproposal for a dateagreement on a dateJanuarh/ilfteFr/ihlingsanfang* January half* spring beginninghalf of Januarybeginning of springFigure 1: Some German compounds with non-compound translationsmantics and pragmatics in determining meaning.We concentrate on (right-headed) compound nouns,since these raise especially difficult problems for NLPsystem architecture (Sparck Jones, 1983).2 The  grammar  o f  compound nounsWithin linguistics, attempts to classify nominal com-pounds using a small fixed set of meaning relations(e.g., Levi (1978)) are usually thought o have failed,because there appear to be exceptions to any clas-sification.
Compounds are attested with meaningswhich can only be determined contextually.
Down-ing (1977) discusses apple juice seat, uttered in acontext in which it identifies a place-setting with aglass of apple juice.
Even for compounds with es-tablished meanings, context can force an alternativeinterpretation (Bauer, 1983).These problems led to analyses in which the re-lationship between the parts of a compound is un-determined by the grammar, e.g., Dowty (1979),Bauer (1983).
Schematically this is equivalent to thefollowing rule, where R is undetermined (to simplifyexposition, we ignore the quantifier for y):NO ---4 N1 N2(1))~x\[P(x) A Q(y) A R(x, y)\] )~y\[Q(y)\] ~x\[P(x)\]Similar approaches have been adopted in NLP withfurther processing using domain restrictions to re-solve the interpretation (e.g., Hobbs et al(1993)).However, this is also unsatisfactory, because (1)overgenerates and ignores systematic properties ofvarious classes of compounds.
Overgeneration isapparent when we consider translation of Germancompounds, since many do not correspond straight-forwardly to English compounds (e.g., Figure 1).Since these exceptions are English-specific they can-not be explained via pragmatics.
Furthermore theyare not simply due to lexical idiosyncrasies: forinstance, Arzttermin/*doctor appointment is repre-sentative of many compounds with human-denotingfirst elements, which require a possessive in English.So we get blacksmith's hammer and not * blacksmithhammer to mean 'hammer of a type convention-ally associated with a blacksmith' (also driver's cab,widow's allowance tc).
This is not the usual pos-sessive: compare (((his blacksmith)'s) hammer) with(his (blacksmith's hammer)).
Adjective placement isalso restricted: three English blacksmith's hammers/*three blacksmith's English hammers.
We treat theseas a subtype of noun-noun compound with the pos-sessive analysed as a case marker.In another subcategory of compounds, the headprovides the predicate (e.g., dog catcher, bottlecrusher).
Again, there are restrictions: it is notusually possible to form a compound with an agen-tire predicate taking an argument that normally re-quires a preposition (contrast water seeker with * wa-ter looker).
Stress assignment also demonstrates in-adequacies in (1): compounds which have the in-terpretation 'Y made of X' (e.g., nylon rope, oaktable) generally have main stress on the righthandnoun, in contrast o most other compounds (Liber-man and Sproat, 1992).
Stress sometimes disam-biguates meaning: e.g., with righthand stress cottonbag has the interpretation bag made of cotton whilewith leftmost stress an alternative reading, bag forcotton, is available.
Furthermore, ordering of ele-ments is restricted: e.g., cotton garment bag/ *gar-ment cotton bag.The rule in (1) is therefore theoretically inade-quate, because it predicts that all noun-noun com-pounds are acceptable.
Furthermore, it gives no hintof likely interpretations, leaving an immense burdento pragmatics.We therefore take a position which is intermediatebetween the two extremes outlined above.
We as-sume that the grammar/lexicon delimits the rangeof compounds and indicates conventional interpre-tations, but that some compounds may only be re-solved by pragmatics and that non-conventional con-textual interpretations are always available.
We de-fine a number of schemata which encode conven-tional meanings.
These cover the majority of com-pounds, but for the remainder the interpretation isleft unspecified, to be resolved by pragmatics.137general-nn \[possessive/1 \\] made-of\]  purpose-pat ient  deverba l  /I n?n-der ived-pp I I deverbal -pp \]linen chest ice-cream containerFigure 2: Fragment of hierarchy of noun-noun compound schemata.
The boxed nodes indicate actualschemata: other nodes are included for convenience in expressing eneralisations.genera l -nn  NO -> N1 N2Ax\[P(x) A Q(y) A R(x, y)\] Ay\[Q(y)\] Ax\[P(x)\]R =/general-nn anything anything/stressedmade-o f  R = made-of substance physobj/stressedpurpose-pat ient  R = TELIC(N2) anything artifactFigure 3: Details of some schemata for noun-noun compounds.
/ indicates that the value to its right isdefault information.Space limitations preclude detailed iscussion butFigures 2 and 3 show a partial default inheri-tance hierarchy of schemata (cf., Jones (1995)).
2Multiple schemata may apply to a single com-pound: for example, cotton bag is an instantiation ofthe made-of  schema, the non-der ived-purpose-pat ient  schema and also the general -nn schema.Each applicable schema corresponds to a differentsense: so cotton bag is ambiguous rather than vague.The interpretation of the hierarchy is that the useof a more general schema implies that the meaningsgiven by specific subschemata are excluded, and thuswe have the following interpretations for cotton bag:1.
Ax\[cotton(y) A bag(x) A made-of(y, x)\]2.
Ax\[cotton(y) A bag(x) A TELIC(bag)(y,x)\] =Ax\[cotton(y) A bag(x) A contain(y, x)\]2We formalise this with typed default feature struc-tures (Lascarides et al 1996).
Schemata can be re-garded formally as lexical/grammar rules (lexical rulesand grammar rules being very similar in our framework)but inefficiency due to multiple interpretations is avoidedin the implementation byusing a form of packing.3.
Ax\[R(y, x) A -~(made-of(y, x) V contain(y, x) V...)\]The predicate made-of is to be interpreted as ma-terial constituency (e.g.
Link (1983)).
We followJohnston and Busa (1996) in using Pustejovsky's(1995) concept of telic role to encode the purposeof an artifact.
These schemata give minimal indi-cations of compound semantics: it may be desirableto provide more information (Johnston et al 1995),but we will not discuss that here.Established compounds may have idiosyncratic n-terpretations or inherit from one or more schemata(though compounds with multiple established sensesdue to ambiguity in the relationship between con-stituents rather than lexical ambiguity are fairly un-usual).
But established compounds may also haveunestablished interpretations, although, as discussedin ?3, these will have minimal probabilities.
Incontrast, an unusual compound, such as apple-juicescat, may only be compatible with general -nn,  andwould be assigned the most underspecified interpre-tation.
As we will see in ?4, this means pragmatics138Unseen-prob-mass(cmp-form) = number-of-applicable-schemata(cmp-form)I ~eq( cmp-form ) + number-of-applicable-schemata( cmp-form )Prod(csl) Estimated-freq(interpretationi with cmp-formj) = Unseen-prob-mass(cmp-formj) x ~ Prod(csl) .....
Prod(cs.,)(where csl .
.
.
cs,  are the compound schemata needed to derive the n unattested entries for the form j)Figure 4: Probabilities for unseen compounds: adapted from Briscoe and Copestake (1996)must find a contextual interpretation.
Thus, for anycompound there may be some context in which itcan be interpreted, but in the absence of a markedcontext, only compounds which instantiate one ofthe subschemata are acceptable.3 Encod ing  Lex ica l  P re ferencesIn order to help pragmatics select between the multi-pie possible interpretations, we utilise probabilities.For an established form, derived or not, these de-pend straightforwardly on the frequency of a par-ticular sense.
For example, in the BNC, diet hasprobability of about 0.9 of occurring in the foodsense and 0.005 in the legislature sense (the remain-der are metaphorical extensions, e.g.. diet of crime).Smoothing is necessary to avoid giving a non-zeroprobability for possible senses which are not foundin a particular corpus.
For derived forms, the ap-plicable lexical rules or schemata determine possi-ble senses (Briscoe and Copestake, 1996).
Thusfor known compounds, probabilities of establishedsenses depend on corpus frequencies but a residualprobability is distributed between unseen interpreta-tions licensed by schemata, to allow for novel uses.This distribution is weighted to allow for productiv-it3" differences between schemata.
For unseen com-pounds, all probabilities depend on schema produc-tivity.
Compound schemata range from the non-productive (e.g., the verb-noun pattern exemplifiedby pickpocket), to the almost fully productive (e.g.
;made-of) with many schemata being intermediate(e.g., has-part: ~-door car is acceptable but the ap-parently similar *sunroof car is not).We use the following estimate for productivity(adapted from Briscoe and Copestake (1996)):M+IProd(cmp-schema) - N(where N is the number of pairs of senses whichmatch the schema input and M is the numberof attested two-noun output forms - -  we ignorecompounds with more than two nouns for simplic-ity).
Formulae for calculating the unseen probabilitymass and for allocating it differentially according toschema productivity are shown in Figure 4.
Finer-grained, more accurate productivity estimates canbe obtained by considering subsets of the possibleinputs - -  this allows for some real-world effects (e.g.,the made-of schema is unlikely for liquid/physical-artifact compounds).Lexical probabilities hould be combined to givean overall probability for a logical form (LF): seee.g., Resnik (1992).
But we will ignore this here andassume pragmatics has to distinguish between alter-natives which differ only in the sense assigned toone compound.
(2) shows possible interpretationsfor cotton bag with associated probabilities.
LFS areencoded in DRT.
The probabilities given here arebased on productivity figures for fabric/containercompounds in the BNC, using WordNet as a source ofsemantic ategories.
Pragmatics creens the LFS foracceptability.
If a LF contains an underspecified ele-ment (e.g., arising from general-nn),  this must beinstantiated by pragmatics from the discourse con-text.
(2) a.b.Mary put a skirt in a cotton bage, x ,  y~ Z~ W, t, nowmary(x), skirt(y), cotton(w),bag(z), put(e, x, y, z ) ,hold(e, t) , t -~ now,made-of(z, w)P = 0.84c.e, x, y, z, w, t, nowmary(x), skirt(y), cotton(w),bag(z), put(e, x, y, z),hold(e, t) , t -< now,contain(z, w)e, X; y~ Z, W~ t, nowP = 0.14d.mary(x), skirt(y), cotton(w),bag(z), put(e, x, y, z),hold(e, t), t -< now,Rc(z ,w) ,Rc =?,-~( made-of(z, w)Vcontain(z, w) V .
.
.
)P = 0.021394 SDRT and  the  Reso lu t ion  o fUnderspec i f ied  Re la t ionsThe frequency information discussed in ?3 is insuf-ficient on its own for disambiguating compounds.Compounds like apple juice seat require marked con-texts to be interpretable.
And some discourse con-texts favour interpretations a sociated with less fre-quent senses.
In particular, if the context makes theusual meaning of a compound incoherent, hen prag-matics should resolve the compound to a less fre-quent but conventionally icensed meaning, so longas this improves coherence.
This underlies the dis-tinct interpretations of cotton bag in (3) vs. (4):(3) a. Mary sorted her clothes into various largebags.b.
She put her skirt in the cotton bag.
(4) a. Mary sorted her clothes into various bagsmade from plastic.b.
She put her skirt into the cotton bag.If the bag in (4b) were interpreted as being madeof cotton--in line with the (statistically) most fre-quent sense of the compound--then the discoursebecomes incoherent because the definite descrip-tion cannot be accommodated into the discoursecontext.
Instead, it must be interpreted as hav-ing the (less frequent) sense given by purpose-patient; this allows the definite description tobe accommodated and the discourse is coherent.In this section, we'll give a brief overview ofthe theory of discourse and pragmatics that we'lluse for modelling this interaction during disam-biguation between discourse information and lex-ical frequencies.
We'll use Segmented DiscourseRepresentation Theory (SDRT) (e.g., Asher (1993))and the accompanying pragmatic omponent Dis-course in Commonsense Entaihnent (DICE) (Las-carides and Asher.
1993).
This framework hasalready been successful in accounting for otherphenomena on the interface between the lexiconand pragmatics, e.g.. Asher and Lascarides (1995).Lascarides and Copestake (1995).Lascarides, Copestake and Briscoe (1996).SDRT is an extension of DRT (Kamp and Reyle,1993).
where discourse is represented as a recursiveset of DRSS representing the clauses, linked togetherwith rhetorical relations such as Elaboration andContrast.
cf.
Hobbs (1985).
Polanyi (1985).
Build-ing an SDRS invoh'es computing a rhetorical relationbetween the representation f the current clause andthe SDRS built so far.
DICE specifies how variousbackground knowledge resources interact o provideclues about which rhetorical relation holds.The rules in DICE include default conditions of theform P > Q, which means If P, then normally Q. Forexample, E laborat ion states: if 2 is to be attachedto a with a rhetorical relation, where a is part of thediscourse structure r already (i.e., (r, a, 2) holds).and 3 is a subtype of a--which by Subtype meansthat o's event is a subtype of 8's, and the individ-ual filling some role Oi in 3 is a subtype of the onefilling the same role in a--then normally, a and 2are attached together with Elaboration (Asher andLascarides, 1995).
The Coherence Constra int  onE laborat ion states that an elaborating event mustbe temporally included in the elaborated event.?
Subtype :(8~(ea,~l) A 8z(e3, ~2) Ae-condn3 Z_ e-condn~ A 7"2 E_ ~,1)Subtype(3. a)?
Elaboration:((r, a, 2) A Subtype(3, a)) > Elaboration(o, ~)?
Coherence Constraint on Elaborat ion:Elaboration(a, 3) --+ e3 C eaSubtype and Elaborat ion encapsulate clues aboutrhetorical structure given by knowledge of subtyperelations among events and objects.
CoherenceConstra int  on Elaborat ion constrains the se-mantic content of constituents connected by Elab-oration in coherent discourse.A distinctive feature of SDRT is that if the DICE ax-ioms yield a nonmonotonic conclusion that the dis-course relation is R, and information that's neces-sary for the coherence of R isn't already in the con-stituents connected with R (e.g., Elaboration(a, 8) isnonmonotonically inferred, but e3 C_ eo is not in aor in 3).
then this content can be added to the con-stituents in a constrained manner through a processknown as SDRS Update.
Informally.
Update( r, a.
3)is an SDRS, which includes (a) the discourse contextr, plus (b) the new information '3.
and (c) an attach-ment of S to a (which is part of r) with a rhetoricalrelation R that's computed via DICE, where (d) thecontent of v. a and 3 are modified so that the co-herence constraints on R are met.
3 Note that thisis more complex than DRT:s notion of update.
Up-date models how interpreters are allowed and ex-pected to fill in certain gaps in what the speakersays: in essence affecting semantic anter throughcontext and pragmatics, lVe'll use this information3If R's coherence constraints can't be inferred, thenthe logic underlying DICE guarantees that R won't benonmonotonically inferred.140flow between context and semantic content to rea-son about the semantic ontent of compounds in dis-course: simply put, we will ensure that words are as-signed the most freqent possible sense that producesa well defined SDRS Update function.An SDnS S is well-defined (written 4 S) if thereare no conditions of the form x =?
(i.e., there areno um'esoh'ed anaphoric elements), and every con-stituent is attached with a rhetorical relation.
Adiscourse is incoherent if "~ 3, Update(T, a,/3) holdsfor every available attachment point a in ~-.
Thatis.
anaphora can't  be resolved, or no rhetorical con-nection can be computed via DICE.For example, the representm ions of (Sa.b) (in sire-plified form) are respectively a and t3:(5) a. Mary put her clothes into various largebags.x.
~ ".
Z,  e,~.
to.
uo.
mary(x), clothes(Y), bag(Z).put(eo,x,~'.
Z).
hold(e,,,ta), ta "< nb.
She put her skirt into the bag made out ofcotton.x .y .z ,w,  e3.t2.n.u.Bmary(x), skirt(y)~ bag(z), cotton(w),3. made-of(z, w), u =?, B(u, z).
B =?,put(e~,x,y,z), hold(e2,to), t~ -< nIn words, the conditions in '3 require the objectdenoted by the definite description to be linkedby some 'bridging' relation B (possibly identity,cf.
van der Sandt (1992)) to an object v identi-fied in the discourse context (Asher and Lascarides.1996).
In SDRT.
the values of u and B are com-puted as a byproduct of SDRT'5 Update function (cf.Hobbs (1979)); one specifies v and B by inferringthe relevant new semantic ontent arising from R~scoherence constraints, where R is the rhetorical rela-tion inferred via the DICE axioms.
If one cannot re-soh'e the conditions u =?
or B =?
through SDnS up-da~e.
then by the above definition of well-definednesson SDRSS the discourse is incoherent (and we havepresupposition failure).The detailed analysis of (3) and (52) involve rea-soning about the values of v and B.
But for rea-sons of space, we gloss over the details given inAsher and Lascarides (1996) for specifying u and Bthrough the SDRT update procedure.
However.
theaxiom Assume Coherence below is derivable fromthe axioms given there.
First some notation: let3\[C\] mean that ~ contains condition C. a~d assumethat 3\[C/C'\] stands for the SDRS which is the sameas 3. save that the condition C in 3 is replaced by C'.Then in words, Assume Coherence stipulates that ifthe discourse can be coherent only if the anaphor uis resolved to x and B is resolved to the specific re-lation P, then one monotonically assumes that theyare resoh,ed this way:?
Assume Coherence:(J~ Update(z,a,B\[u -.,-7 B =?/u = x.B, = P\]) A(C' # (,~ = z ^ B = P) -~$ Update( 7", a, ~\[u =?.B  =?/C' \ ] ) ) )  -~( Update(z, a, ~)Update( v, a, 3\[u =?,B  =?/u  = x ,B  = P\]))Intuitively, it should be clear that in (Sa.b) -, $Update(a, a, 3) holds, unless the bag in (5b) is oneof the bags mentioned in (5a)-- i .e, u = Z andB = member-of For otherwise the events in (5)are too "disconnected" to support ant" rhetorical re-lation.
On the other hand.
assigning u and B thesevalues allows us to use Subtype and E laborat ionto infer Elaboration (because skirt is a kind of cloth-ing, and the bag in (Sb) is one of the bags in (5a)).So Assume Coherence, Subtype and Elaborationyield that (Sb) elaborates (Sa) and the bag in (5b)is one of the bags in (5a).Applying SDRT tO compounds encodes the ef-fects of pragmatics on the compounding relation.For example, to reflect the fact that compoundssuch as apple juice seat, which are compatibleonly with genera l -nn ,  are acceptable only whencontext resoh'es the compound relation, we as-sume that the DRS conditions produced by thisschema are: Rc(y,x), Rc -.,-7 and -,(made-o/(y.x) Vcontain(y, x) V. .
. )
.
By the above definition of well-definedness on SDRSS, the compound is coherent onlyif we can resoh,e Rc to a particular elation via theSDRT Update function, which in turn is determinedby DICE.
Rules such as Assume Coherence serve tospecify the necessary compound relation, so long ascontext provides enough information.5 Integrating Lexical Preferencesand  Pragmat ics\Ve now extend SDRT and DICE to handle the prob-abilistic information given in ?3.
We want the prag-matic component o utilise this knowledge, whilestill maintaining sufficient flexibility that less fre-quent senses are favoured in certain discourse con-texts.Suppose that the new information to be in-tegrated with the discourse context is ambigu-ous between ~1 .
.
.
.
,Bn.
Then we assume thatexactly one of Update(z.a,~,).
\] < i <_ n.holds.
We gloss this complex disjunctive formula as141/Vl<i<n(Update(T,a, j3i)).
Let ~k ~- j3j mean thatthe probability of DRS f~k is greater than that of f~j.Then the rule schema below ensures that the mostfrequent possible sense that produces discourse co-herence is (monotonically) favoured:?
Prefer Frequent Senses:( /Vl<i<n( Update(T, c~,/~i))A$ Update(T, oz,/~j) A(/~k ~" j3j --~ -~ $ Update(T,a,~k))) -+Update(T, a,/~j)Pre fer  Frequent Senses is a declarative rule fordisambiguating constituents in a discourse context.But from a procedural perspective it captures: tryto attach the DRS based on the most probable sensesfirst; if it works you're done; if not, try the next mostprobable sense, and so on.Let's examine the interpretation of compounds.Consider (3).
Let's consider the representation ~'of (3b) with the highest probability: i.e., the onewhere cotton bag means bag made of cotton.
Thensimilarly to (5), Assume Coherence, Subtype andE laborat ion  are used to infer that the cotton bagis one of the bags mentioned in (3a) and Elab-oration holds.
Since this updated SDRS is well-defined, P re fer  Frequent Senses ensures that it'strue.
And so cotton bag means bag made from cottonin this context.Contrast this with (4).
Update( a, a, /~') is notwell-defined because the cotton bag cannot beone of the bags in (4a).
On the other hand,Update(a, (~, ~") is well-defined, where t3" is the DRSwhere cotton bag means bag containing cotton.
Thisis because one can now assume this bag is one ofthe bags mentioned in (4a), and therefore Elabora-tion can be inferred as before.
So P re fer  FrequentSenses  ensures that Update(a,a,~") holds butUpdate(a, o~, j3') does not.P re fer  Frequent Senses is designed for reason-ing about word senses in general, and not just thesemantic ontent of compounds: it predicts diet hasits food sense in (6b) in isolation of the discoursecontext (assuming Update(O, 0, ~) = ~), but it hasthe law-maker sense in (6), because SDRT's coher-ence constraints on Contrast ((Asher, 1993))--whichis the relation required for Update because of the cueword but--can't be met when diet means food.
(6) a.
In theory, there should be cooperation be-tween the different branches of government.b.
But the president hates the diet.In general, pragmatic reasoning is computation-ally expensive, even in very restricted omains.
Butthe account of disambiguation we've offered circum-scribes pragmatic reasoning as much as possible.All nonmonotonic reasoning remains packed into thedefinition of Update(T, a, f~), where one needs prag-matic reasoning anyway for inferring rhetorical re-lations.
P re fer  Frequent Senses is a monotonicrule, it doesn't increase the load on nonmonotonicreasoning, and it doesn't introduce xtra pragmaticmachinery peculiar to the task of disambiguatingword senses.
Indeed, this rule offers a way of check-ing whether fully specified relations between com-pounds are acceptable, rather than relying on (ex-pensive) pragmatics to compute them.We have mixed stochastic and symbolic reasoning.Hobbs et al(1993) also mix numbers and rules bymeans of weighted abduction.
However, the theoriesdiffer in several important respects.
First, our prag-matic component has no access to word forms andsyntax (and so it's not language specific), whereasHobbs et als rules for pragmatic interpretation canaccess these knowledge sources.
Second, our prob-abilities encode the frequency of word senses asso-ciated with word forms.
In contrast, the weightsthat guide abduction correspond to a wider varietyof information, and do not necessarily correspond toword sense/form frequencies.
Indeed, it is unclearwhat meaning is conveyed by the weights, and con-sequently the means by which they can be computedare not well understood.6 Conc lus ionWe have demonstrated that compound noun in-terpretation requires the integration of the lexi-con, probabilistic information and pragmatics.
Asimilar case can be made for the interpretationof morphologically-derived forms and words in ex-tended usages.
We believe that the proposed archi-tecture is theoretically well-motivated, but also prac-tical, since large-scale semi-automatic a quisition ofthe required frequencies from corpora is feasible,though admittedly time-consuming.
However fur-ther work is required before we can demonstrate his,in particular to validate or revise the formulae in ?3and to further develop the compound schemata.7 AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to thank Ted Briscoe andthree anonymous reviewers for comments on previ-ous drafts.
This material is in part based upon worksupported by the National Science Foundation un-der grant number IRI-9612682 and ESRC (UK) grantnumber R000236052.142ReferencesAsher, N. (1993) Reference to Abstract Objects inDiscourse, Kluwer Academic Publishers.Asher, N. and A. Lascarides (1995) 'Lexical Disam-biguation in a Discourse Context', Journal of Se-mantics, voi.12.1, 69-108.Asher, N. and A. Lascarides (1996) Bridging, Pro-ceedings of the International Workshop on Se-mantic Underspecification, Berlin, October 1996,available from the Max Plank Institute.Bauer, L. (1983) English word-formation, Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge, England.Briscoe, E.J.
and A. Copestake (1996) 'Controllingthe application of lexical rules', Proceedings of theA CL SIGLEX Workshop on Breadth and Depth ofSemantic Lexicons, Santa Cruz, CA.Downing, P. (1977) 'On the Creation and Use ofEnglish Compound Nouns', Language, vol.53(~),810-842.Dowty, D. (1979) Word meaning in Montague Gram-mar, Reidel, Dordrecht.Hobbs, J.
(1979) 'Coherence and Coreference', Cog-nitive Science, vol.3, 67-90.Hobbs, J.
(1985) On the Coherence and Structure ofDiscourse, Report No.
CSLI-85-37, Center for theStudy of Language and Information.Hobbs, J.R., M. Stickel, D. Appelt and P. Martin(1993) 'Interpretation asAbduction', Artificial In-telligence, vol.
63.1, 69-142.Johnston, M., B. Boguraev and J. Pustejovsky(1995) 'The acquisition and interpretation ofcom-plex nominals', Proceedings of the AAAI SpringSymposium on representation and acquisition oflexical knowledge, Stanford, CA.Johnston, M. and F. Busa (1996) 'Qualia struc-ture and the compositional interpretation ofcom-pounds', Proceedings of the ACL SIGLEX work-shop on breadth and depth of semantic lexicons,Santa Cruz, CA.Jones, B.
(1995) 'Predicting nominal compounds',Proceedings o.f the 17th Annual conference of theCognitive Science Society, Pittsburgh, PA.Kamp, H. and U. Reyle (1993) From Discourse toLogic: an introduction to modeltheoretic seman-tics, formal logic and Discourse RepresentationTheory, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht,Germany.Lascarides, A. and N. Asher (1993) 'Temporal Inter-pretation, Discourse Relations and CommonsenseEntailment', Linguistics and Philosophy, vol.
16.5,437-493.Lascarides, A., E.J.
Briscoe, N. Asher and A. Copes-take (1996) 'Persistent and Order IndependentTyped Default Unification', Linguistics and Phi-losophy, voi.19:1, 1-89.Lascarides, A. and A. Copestake (in press) 'Prag-matics and Word Meaning', Journal of Linguis-tics,Lascarides, A., A. Copestake and E. J. Briscoe(1996) 'Ambiguity and Coherence', Journal of Se-mantics, vol.13.1, 41-65.Levi, J.
(1978) The syntax and semantics of complexnominals, Academic Press, New York.Liberman, M. and R. Sproat (1992) 'The stress andstructure of modified noun phrases in English' inI.A.
Sag and A. Szabolsci (eds.
), Lexical matters,CSLI Publications, pp.
131-182.Link, G. (1983) 'The logical analysis of pluralsand mass terms: a lattice-theoretical approach'in Bguerle, Schwarze and von Stechow (eds.
),Meaning, use and interpretation of language, deGruyter, Berlin, pp.
302-323.Polanyi, L. (1985) 'A Theory of Discourse Structureand Discourse Coherence', Proceedings of the Pa-pers from the General Session at the Twenty-FirstRegional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistics Soci-ety, Chicago, pp.
25-27.Pustejovsky, J.
(1995) The Generative Lexicon, MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Resnik, P. (1992) 'Probabilistic Lexicalised Tree Ad-joining Grammar', Proceedings of the Coling92,Nantes, France.van der Sandt, R. (1992) 'Presupposition Projectionas Anaphora Resolution', Journal of Semantics,voi.19.4,Sparck Jones, K. (1983) 'So what about parsing com-pound nouns?'
in K. Sparck Jones and Y.
Wilks(eds.
), Automatic natural language parsing, EllisHorwood, Chichester, England, pp.
164-168.Webber, B.
(1991) 'Structure and Ostension in theInterpretation ofDiscourse Deixis', Language andCognitive Processes, vol.
6.2, 107-135.143
