Contrast ive accent in a data - to -speech  sys temMar i~t  TheuneI PO,  Center  for Research on User -System In teract ionP.O.
Box 5135600 MB E indhovenThe  Nether landstheune@ipo, tue.
nlAbst rac tBeing able to predict he placement of con-trastive accent is essential for the assign-ment of correct accentuation patterns inspoken language generation.
I discuss twoapproaches to the generation of contrastiveaccent and propose an alternative methodthat is feasible and computationally at-tractive in data-to-speech systems.1 Mot ivat ionThe placement of pitch accent plays an importantrole in the interpretation ofspoken messages.
Utter-antes having the same surface structure but a differ-ent accentuation pattern may express very differentmeanings.
A generation system for spoken languageshould therefore be able to produce appropriate ac-centuation patterns for its output messages.One of the factors determining accentuation iscontrast.
Its importance canbe  illustrated withall example from GoalGetter, a data-to-speech sys-teln which generates spoken soccer eports in Dutch(Klabbers et al, 1997).
The input of the system isa typed data structure containing data on a soccermatch.
So-called syntactic templates (van Deemterand Odijk, 1995) are used to express parts of thisdata structure.
In GoalGetter, only 'new' inform-ation is accented; 'given' ('old') information is not(Chafe, 1976), (Brown, 1983), (Hirschberg, 1992).However, this strategy does not always lead to a cor-rect accentuation pattern if contrastive informationis not taken into account, as shown in example (1).
t(1) a Ill the 16th minute, the Ajax player Kluivertkicked the ball into the wrong goal.b Ten minutes later, Wooter scored for Ajax.1 All GoalGetter examples are translated from Dutch.Accented words are given in italics; deaccented wordsare underlined.
This is only done where relevant.The word Ajax in (1)b is not accented by the sys-tem, because it is mentioned for the second time andtherefore regarded as 'given'.
However, this lack ofaccent creates the impression that Kluivert scoredfor Ajax too, whereas in fact he scored for the op-posing team through an own goal.
This undesirableeffect could be avoided by accenting the second oc-currence of Ajax in spite of its givenness, to indicatethat it constitutes contrastive information.2 P red ic t ing  cont ras t ive  accentIn this section I discuss two approaches to predictingcontrastive accent, which were put forward by ScottPrevost (1995) and Stephen Pulinan (1997).In the theory of contrast proposed in (Prevost,1995), an item receives contrastive accent if it co-occurs with another item that belongs to its 'set ofalternatives', i.e.
a set of different items of the sametype.
There are two main problems with this ap-proach.
First, as Prevost himself notes, it is verydifficult to define exactly which items count as be-ing of 'the same type'.
If the definition is too strict,not all cases of contrast will be accounted for.
Onthe other hand, if it is too broad, then anything willbe predicted to contrast with anything.
A secondproblem is that there are cases where co-occurrenceof two items of the same type does not trigger con-trast, as in the following soccer example:(2) abcAfter six minutes Nilis scored a goal for PSV.This caused Ajax to fall behind.Twenty minutes later Cocu scored for PSV.According to Prevost's theory, PSVin (2)c shouldhave a contrastive accent, because the two teamsAjax and PSV are obviously in each other's altern-ative set.
In fact, though, there is no contrast andPSV should be normally deaccented ue to given-ness.
This shows that the presence of an alternativeitem is not sufficient o trigger contrast accent.519Another approach to contrastive accent is advoc-ated by Pulman (1997), who proposes to use higherorder unification (HOU) for both interpretation andprediction of focus.
Described informally, Pulman'sfocus assignment algorithm takes the semantic rep-resentation of a sentence which has just been gener-ated, looks in the context for another sentence rep-resentation containing parallel items, and abstractsover these items in both representations.
If theresulting representations are unifiable, the two sen-tences stand in a contrast relation and the parallelelements from the most recent one receive a pitchaccent (or another focus marker).Pulman does not give a full definition of parallel-ism, but states that "to be parallel, two items needto be at least of the same type and have the samesortal properties" ((Pulman, 1997), p. 90).
This israther similar to Prevost's conditions on alternativesets.
Consequently, Pulman's theory also faces theproblem of determining when two items are of thesame type.
Still, contrary to Prevost, Pulman canexplain the lack of contrast accent in (2)c, becauseobviously the representations of sentences (2)b and(2)c will not unify.Another advantage, pointed out in (Gardent et al,1996), is that a HOU algorithm can take world know-ledge into account, which is sometimes necessary fordetermining contrast.
For instance, the contrast in(1) is based on the knowledge that kicking the ballinto the wrong goal implies scoring a goal for theopposing team.
In a HOU approach, the contrastin this example might be predicted by unifying therepresentation f the second sentence with the entail-ment of the first.
However, such a strategy wouldrequire the explicit enumeration of all possible se-mantic equivalences and entalhnents in the relevantdomain, which seems hardly feasible.
Also, imple-mentation of higher order unification can be quiteinefficient.
This means that although theoreticallyappealing, the HOU approach to contrastive accentis less attractive from a computational viewpoint.3 An  a l te rnat ive  so lu t ionFortunately, in data-to-speech systems like GoalGet-ter, the input of which is formed by typed and struc-tured data, a simple principle can be used for de-termining contrast.
If two subsequent sentences aregenerated from the same type of data structure theyexpress imilar information and should therefore beregarded as potentially contrastive, ven if their sur-face forms are different.
Pitch accent should be as-signed to those parts of the second sentence that ex-press data which differ from those in the data struc-ture expressed by the first sentence.Example (1) can be used as illustration.
The the-ory of Prevost will not predict contrastive accent onAjax in (1)b, because (1)a does not contain a mem-ber of its alternative set.
In Pulman's approach, thecontrast can only be predicted if the system usesthe world knowledge that scoring an own goal meansscoring for the opposing team.
In the approach thatI propose, the contrast between (1)a and b can be de-rived directly from the data structures they express.Figure 1 shows these structures, A and B, which areboth of the type goaLevent: a record with fields spe-cifying the team for which a goal was scored, theplayer who scored, the time and the kind of goal:normal, own goal or penalty.A: goaLeventteam: PSVplayer: Kluivertminute: 16goaltype: ownB: goaLeventteam: Ajaxplayer: Wooterminute: 26goaltype: normalFigure 1: Data structures expressed by (1)a and b.Since A and B are of the same type, the values oftheir fields can be compared, showing which piecesof information are contrastive.
Figure 1 shows thatall the fields of B have different values from those ofA.
This means that each phrase in (1)b which ex-presses the value of one of those fields should receivecontrastive accent, 2 even if the corresponding fieldvalue of A was not mentioned in (1)a.
This guar-antees that in (1)b the proper name Ajax, whichexpresses the value of the team field of B, is accen-ted despite the fact that the contrasting team wasnot explicitly mentioned in (1)a.The discussion of example (1) shows that inthe approach proposed here no world knowledge isneeded to determine contrast; it is only necessaryto compare the data structures that are expressedby the generated sentences.
The fact that the inputdata structures of the system are organized in sucha way that identical data types express emanticallyparallel information allows us to make use of theworld (or domain) knowledge incorporated in thedesign of these data structures, without having toseparately encode this knowledge.
This also means2Sentence (1)b happens not to express the goaltypevalue of B, but if it did, this phrase should also receivecontrastive accent (e.g., 'Twenty minutes later, Over-mars scored a normal goal').520that the prediction of contrast does not depend onthe linguistic expressions which are chosen to ex-press the input data; the data can be expressed inan indirect way, as in (1)a, without influencing theprediction of contrast.The approach sketched above will also give the de-sired result for example (2): sentence (2)c will notbe regarded as contrastive with (2)b, since (2)c ex-presses a goal event but (2)b does not.4 Future  d i rec t ionsAn open question which still remains, is at whichlevel data structures hould be compared.
In otherwords, how do we deal with sub- and supertypes?For example, apart from the goal_event data typethe GoalGetter system also has a card_event type,which specifies at what time which player received acard of which color.
Since goal_event and card_eventare different ypes, they are not expected to be con-trastible.
However, both are subtypes of a more gen-eral event type, and if regarded at this higher eventlevel, the structures might be considered as contrast-ible after all.
Examples like (3) seem to suggest thatthis is possible.
(3) a In the 11th minute, Ajax took the leadthrough a goal by Kluivert.b Shortly after the break, the referee handedNilis a yellow card.c Ten minutes later, Kluivert scored for thesecond time.The fact that it is not inappropriate oaccent Klu-ivert in (3)c, shows that (3)c may be regarded ascontrastive to (3)b; otherwise, it would be obligat-ory to deaccent the second mention of Kluivert dueto givenness, like PSV in (2)c. Cases like this mightbe accounted for by assuming that there can be con-trast between fields that are shared by data typeshaving the same supertype.
In (3), these would bethe player and the minute fields of structures Cand D, shown in Figure 2.
This is a tentative solu-tion which requires further research.player: Nilis \]C: card_event minute: 11cardtype: yellowteam: AjaxD: goal_event player: Kluivertminute: 21goaltype: normalFigure 2: Data structures expressed by (3)b and c.5 Conc lus ionI have sketched a practical approach to the assign-ment of contrastive accent in data-to-speech sys-tems, which does not need a universal definition ofalternative or parallel items.
Because the determin-ation of contrast is based on the data expressed bygenerated sentences, instead of their syntactic struc-tures or semantic reprentations, there is no need forseparately encoding world knowledge.
The proposedapproach is domain-specific in that it relies heavilyon the data structures that form the input from gen-eration.
On the other hand it is based on a generalprinciple, which should be applicable in any systemwhere typed data structures form the input for lin-guistic generation.
In the near future, the proposedapproach will be implemented in GoalGetter.Acknowledgements: This research was carried outwithin the Priority Programme Language and SpeechTechnology (TST), sponsored by NWO (the NetherlandsOrganization for Scientific Research).Re ferencesGillian Brown.
1983.
Prosodic structure and thegiven/new distinction.
In D.R.
Ladd and A.
Cutler(Eds.
): Prosody: Models and Measurements.
SpringerVerlag, Berlin.Wallace Chafe.
1976.
Givenness, contrastiveness, defin-iteness, subjects, topics and points of view.
In C.N.
Li(Ed): Subject and Topic.
Academic Press, New York.Kees van Deemter and Jan Odijk.
1995.
Contextmodeling and the generation of spoken discourse.Manuscript 1125, IPO, Eindhoven, October 1995.Philips Research Manuscript NL-MS 18 728.
To ap-pear in Speech Communication, 21 (1/2).Claire Gardent, Michael Kohlhase and Noor van Leusen.1996.
Corrections and higher-order unification.
Toappear in Proceedings of KONVENS, Bielefeld.Julia Hirschberg.
1992.
Using discourse context toguide pitch accent decisions in synthetic speech.
In G.Bailly, C. Benoit and T.R.
Sawallis (Eds) Talking Ma-chines: Theories, Models, and Designs.
Elsevier Sci-ence Publishers, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.Esther Klabbers, Jan Odijk, Jan Roelof de Pijper andMari~t Theune.
1997.
GoalGetter: from Teletext tospeech.
To appear in IPO Annual Progress Report 31.Eindhoven, The Netherlands.Scott Prevost.
1995.
A semantics of contrast and in-formation structure for specifying intonation in spokenlanguage generation.
PhD-dissertation, University ofPennsylvania.Stephen Pulman.
1997.
Higher Order Unification andthe interpretation of focus.
In Linguistics and Philo-sophy 20.521
