Representing Paraphrases Using Synchronous TAGsMark  DrasMicrosoft  Research Inst i tute ,  Macquar ie  Un ivers i tyNSW Aust ra l ia  2109markd~mpce, mq.
edu.
auAbst ractThis paper looks at representing para-phrases using the formalism of Syn-chronous TAGs; it looks particularly atcomparisons with machine translation andthe modifications it is necessary to maketo Synchronous TAGs for paraphrasing.
Amore detailed version is in Dras (1997a).1 In t roduct ionThe context of the paraphrasing in this work isthat of Reluctant Paraphrase (Dras, 1997b).
Inthis framework, a paraphrase is a tool for modify-ing a text to fit a set of constraints like length orlexical density.
As such, generally applicable para-phrases are appropriate, so syntactic paraphrases--paraphrases that can be represented in terms of amapping between syntax trees describing each of theparaphrase alternatives--have b en chosen for theirgeneral applicability.
Three examples are:(1) a.
The salesman made an attempt o wearSteven down.b.
The salesman attempted to wear Stevendown.
(2) a.
The compere who put the contestant tothe lie detector gained the cheers of theaudience.b.
The compere put the contestant to thelie detector test.
He gained the cheersof the audience.
(3) a.
The smile broke his composure.b.
His composure was broken by the smile.A possible approach for representing paraphrasesis that of Chandrasekar et al(1996) in the context oftext simplification.
This involves a fairly straightfor-ward representation, as the focus is on paraphraseswhich simplify sentences by breaking them apart.However, for purposes other than sentence simplifi-cation, where paraphrases like (1) are used, a morecomplex representation is needed.A paraphrase representation can be thought of ascomprising two parts--a representation for each ofthe source and target texts, and a representationfor mapping between them.
Tree Adjoining Gram-mars (TAGs) cover the first part: as a formalismfor describing the syntactic aspects of text, theyhave a number of desirable features.
The proper-ties of the formalism are well established (Joshi etal, 1975), and the research as also led to the de-velopment of a large standard grammar (XTAG Re-search Group, 1995), and a parser XTAG (Doran etal, 1994).
Mapping between source and target textsis achieved by an extension to the TAG formalismknown as Synchronous TAG, introduced by Shieberand Schabes (1990).
Synchronous TAGs (STAGs)comprise a pair of trees plus links between odes ofthe trees.
The original paper of Shieber and Schabesproposed using STAGs to map from a syntactic toa semantic representation, while another paper byAbeill@ (1990) proposed their use in machine trans-lation.
The use in machine translation is quite closeto the use proposed here, hence the comparison inthe following section; instead of mapping betweenpossibly different rees in different languages, thereis a mapping between trees in the same languagewith very different syntactic properties.2 Paraphras ing  w i th  STAGsAbeill~ notes that the STAG formalism allows anexplicit semantic representation to be avoided, map-ping from syntax to syntax directly.
This fits wellwith the syntactic paraphrases described in this pa-per; but it does not, as Abeill@ also notes, pre-clude semantic-based mappings, with Shieber andSchabes constructing syntax-to-semantics mappingsas the first demonstration f STAGs.
Similarly, moresemantically-based paraphrases are possible throughan indirect application of STAGs to a semantic rep-resentation, and then back to the syntax.One major difference between use in MT andparaphrase is in lexicalisation.
The sorts of map-pings that Abeill~ deals with are lexically idiosyn-cratic: the English sentences Kim likes Dale andKim misses Dale, while syntactically parallel andsemantically fairly dose, are translated to different516SFigure 1: STAGs:  miss-manquer dsyntactic structures in French; see Figure 1.
Theactual mappings depend on the properties of words,so any TAGs used in this synchronous manner willnecessarily be lexicaiised.
Here, however, the sortsof paraphrases which are used are lexically general:splitting off a relative clause, as in (2), is not depen-dent on any lexical attribute of the sentence.Related to this is that, at least between Englishand French, extensive syntactic mismatch is un-usual, much of the difficulty in translation comingfrom lexical idiosyncrasies.
A consequence for ma-chine translation is that much of the synchronis-ing of TAGs is between elementary trees.
So, evenwith a more complex syntactic structure than thetranslation examples above, the changes can be de-scribed by composing mappings between elementarytrees, or just in the transfer lexicon.
Abeill~ notesthat there are occasions where it is necessary to re-place an elementary tree by a derived tree; for exam-ple, in Hopefully, John will work becomes On esp~reque Jean travaillera, hopefully (an elementary tree)matches on esp~re que (derived)., ~ v,o N~ P.PoFigure 2: Re lat ive  clause paraphraseThe situation is more complex in paraphrasing:by definition, the mappings are between units oftext with differing syntactic properties.
For exam-ple, the mapping of examples (2a) and (2b) involvesthe pairing of two derived trees, as in Figure 2.
Inthis case, both trees are derived ones.
A problemwith the STAG formalism in this situation is thatit doesn't capture the generality of the mapping be-tween (2a) and (2b); separate tree pairings will haveto be made for verbs in the matrix clause which havecomplementation patterns different from that of theabove examples; the same is true for verbs in the sub-ordinate clause.
For more complex matchings, themaking and pairing of derived trees becomes combi-natorially large.A more compact definition is to have links, of akind different from the standard STAG links, be-tween nodes higher in the tree.
In STAG, a linkbetween two nodes specifies that any substitutionor adjunction occurring at one node must be repli-cated at the other.
This new proposed link would bea summary link indicating the synchronisation of anentire subtree: more precisely, each subnode of thenode with the summary link is mapped to the cor-responding node in the paired tree in a synchronousdepth-first raversal of the subtree.
Naturally, thiscan only be defined for pairs of nodes which havethe same structure 1 ; that is, in the context of para-phrasing, it is effectively a statement that the pairedsubtrees are identical.
So, for example, a mappingbetween the nodes labelled VP1 in each of the treesof the example described above would be an appro-priate place to have such a summary link: by es-tablishing a mapping between each subnode of VP1,this covers different ypes of matrix clauses.Another feature of using STAGs for paraphras-ing is that the links are not necessarily one-to-one.In the right-hand tree of the Figure 2 pairing, thesubject NPs of both sentences are linked to NP1 ofthe left-hand tree; this is a statement that both re-sulting sentences have the same subject.
This doesnot, however, change the properties in any signifi-cant way.
2It is also useful to add another type of link whichis non-standard, in that it is not just a link betweennodes at which adjunction and substitution occur,but which represents shared attributes.
It connectsnodes such as the main verb of each tree, and indi-cates that particular attributes are held in common.For example, mapping between active and passivevoice versions of a sentence is represented by thetree in Figure 3.
The verb in the active version of(3) (broke) shares the attribute of tense with theauxiliary verb \be\, and the lexical component isshared with the main verb of the passive tree (bro-1More precisely, they need only have the same num-ber and type of argument slots.2This is equivalent to there being m dummy childnodes of the node at the multiple end of an m:l link,each child node being exactly the same as the parentwith fully re-entrant feature structures, with one linkbeing systematically allocated to each child.517ken), which takes the past participle form.
This sortof link is unnecessary when STAGs are used in MT,as the trees are lexicalised, and the information isshared in the transfer lexicon.
Since, with para-phrasing, the transfer lexicon does not play such arole, the shared information is represented by thisnew type of link between the trees, where the linksare labelled according to the information shared.Hence, node 1/1 in the active tree has a TENSE linkwith node Vo in the passive tree, where tense is theattribute in common; and a LEX link with node I/1in the passive tree, where the lexeme is shared.
33 Notat ionIn paraphrasing, the tree notation thus becomesfairly clumsy: as well as consuming a large amount ofspace (given the large derived trees), it fails to reflectthe generality provided by the summary links.
Thatis, it is not possible to define a mapping betweentwo structures reflecting their common features ifthe structures are not, as is standard in STAG, en-tire elementary or derived trees.
Therefore, a newand more compact notation is proposed to overcomethese two disadvantages.The new notation has three parts: the first partuniquely defines each tree of a synchronous tree pair;the second part describes, also uniquely, the nodesthat will be part of the links; the third part linksthe trees via these nodes.
So, let variables X andY stand for any string of argument ypes accept-able in tree names; for example, X could be nxlnx2and Y nl.
Then, for example, the tree for (2a)can be defined as the adjunction of a flN0nx0VXtree (generic relative clause tree, standing for, e.g.,~N0nx0Vnxlnx2) into an an0VY tree; the tree for(2b) can be defined as a conjoined S tree, havinga parent Sm node and 2 child nodes an0VX andan0VY.s, s,Figure 3: Paraphrase  w i th  par t ia l  l inksThe second part of the notation requires pick-ing out important nodes.
The identification scheme~The determination of a precise set of link labels isfuture work.proposed here has a string comprising node labelswith relations between them, signifying a relation-ship taken from the set {parent, child, left-sibling,right-sibling}, abbreviated {p, c, ls, rs}.
The nodeNP1 of the left-hand tree of Figure 2 can then bedescribed by the string NPpNPpSrpNIL; an asso-ciated mnemonic nickname might be T1 subjNP.The third part of the representation is then link-ing the nodes.
Standard links are represented byan equal sign; other links are represented with thelink type subscripted to the equal sign.
Thus,for Figure 2, TlsubjNP=TfleftsubjNP, whereT21eftsubjNP is NPpSrpSmpNIL for the right-hand tree.For a tabular representation using this notation,see Dras (1997a).4 Conc lus ionSynchronous TAGs are a useful representation forparaphrasing, the mapping between parallel textsof the same language which have different syntac-tic structure.
A number of modifications need to bemade, however, to properly capture the nature ofparaphrases: the creation of a new type of summarylink, to compensate for the increased importance ofderived trees; the allowing of many-to-many linksbetween trees; the creation of partial links, whichallow some information to be shared; and a new no-tation which expresses the generality of paraphras-ing.Re ferencesAbeill~, Anne, Y. Schabes and A. Joshi.
1990.
UsingLexicalised Tags for Machine Translation.
Proc.
ofCOLING90, 1-6.Chandrasekar, R., C. Doran, B. Srinivas.
1996.
Moti-vations and Methods for Text Simplification.
Proc.
ofCOLING96, 1041-1044.Doran, Christy, D. Egedi, B.A.
Hockey, B. Srinivas andM.
Zaidel.
1994.
XTAG System - A Wide CoverageGrammar of English.
Proc.
o/COLING94, 922-928.Dras, Mark.
1997a.
Representing Paraphrases UsingSynchronous Tree Adjoining Grammars.
1997 Aus-tralasian NLP Summer Workshop, 17-24.Dras, Mark.
1997b.
Reluctant Paraphrase: Textual Re-structuring under an Optimisation Model.
Submittedto PACLING97.Joshi, Aravind, L. Levy and M. Takahashi.
1975.
TreeAdjunct Grammars.
J of Computer and System Sci-ences, 10(1).Shieber, Stuart and Y. Schabes.
1990.
Synchronous TreeAdjoining Grammars.
Proc.
of COLINGgo, 253-258.XTAG Research Group.
1995.
A Lexicalised Tree Ad-joining Grammar for English.
Univ.
of PennsylvaniaTechnical Report IRCS 95-03.518
