A Theory of Parallelism and the Case of VP EllipsisJ e r ry  R .
Hobbs  and  Andrew Keh lerArt i f ic ial  Inte l l igence CenterSRI  In ternat iona l333 Ravenswood AvenueMenlo  Park ,  CA 94025{hobbs, kehler}?ai, sri.
comAbst ractWe provide a general account of parallelismin discourse, and apply it to the specialcase of resolving possible readings for in-stances of VP ellipsis.
We show how seyeralproblematic examples are accounted for ina natural and straightforward fashion.
Thegenerality of the approach makes it directlyapplicable to a variety of other types of el-lipsis and reference.1 The  Prob lem o f  VP  E l l ips i sVP ellipsis has received a great deal of atten-tion in theoretical and computational linguistics(Asher, 1993; Crouch, 1995; Dalrymple, Shieber,and Pereira, 1991; Fiengo and May, 1994; Gawronand Peters, 1990; Hardt, 1992; Kehler, 1993; Lappinand McCord, 1990; Priist, 1992; Sag, 1976; Web-bet, 1978; Williams, 1977, inter alia).
The area isa tangled thicket of examples in which readings aremysteriously missing and small changes reverse judg-ments.
It is a prime example of a phenomenon atthe boundary between syntax and pragmatics.VP ellipsis is exemplified in sentence (1).
(1) John revised his paper before the teacher did.This sentence has two readings, one in which theteacher revised John's paper (the strict reading), andone in which the teacher evised his own paper (thesloppy reading).
Obtaining an adequate account ofstrict/sloppy ambiguities has been a major focus ofVP ellipsis research.
This is challenging because notall examples are as simple as sentence (1).
In fact,sentence (1) is the first main clause of one of themore problematic cases in the literature:(2) John revised his paper before the teacher did,and Bill did too.Whereas one might expect here to be as many assix readings for this sentence, Dalrymple t ai.
(1991,henceforth DSP) note that it has only five readings;the reading is absent in which(3) John revised John's paper before the teacherrevised John's paper, and Bill revised John'spaper before the teacher evised Bill's paper.Previous analyses have either generated too few ortoo many readings, or have required an appeal toadditional processes or constraints external to theactual resolution process itself.Examples like (2) test the adequacy of an analysisat a fine-grained level of detail.
Other examples testthe generality of an analysis, in terms of its abilityto account for phenomena similar to VP ellipsis andto interact with other interpretation processes thatmay come into play.
For instance, strict/sloppy am-biguities are not restricted to VP ellipsis, but arecommon to a wide range of constructions that relyon parallelism between two eventualities, ome ofwhich are listed in Table 1.
Given the ubiquityof strict/sloppy ambiguities, one would expect heseto be a by-product of general discourse resolutionmechanisms and not mechanisms specific to VP el-lipsis.
Any account applying only to the latter wouldmiss an important generalization.In this paper, we give an account of resolutionrooted in a general computational theory of paral-lelism.
We demonstrate he depth of our approachby showing that unlike previous approaches, the al-gorithm generates the correct five readings for ex-ample (2) without appeal to additional mechanismsor constraints.
We also discuss how other 'missingreadings' cases are accounted for.
We show the gen-erality of the approach by demonstrating its han-dling of several other examples that prove prob-lematic for past approaches, including a source-of-ellipsis paradox, so-called extended parallelism cases,and sloppy readings with events cases.
Of the phe-394Phenomenon Example'Do It' Anaphora'Do So' AnaphoraStrippingComparative Deletion'Same As' Reference'Me Too' Phenomena'one' AnaphoraLazy PronounsAnaphoric DeaccentingFocus PhenomenaJohn revised his paper before Bill did it.John revised his paper and Bill did so too.John revised his paper, and Bill too.John revised his paper more quickly' than Bill.John revised his paper, and Bill did the same.John revised his paper, and the teacher followed suit.A: John revised his paper.B: Me too./Ditto.John revised a paper of his, and Bill revised one too.The student who revised his paper did better thanthe student who handed it in as is.John said he called his teacher an idiot,and Bill said he insulted his teacher too.Only John revised his paper.Table 1: Phenomena Giving Rise to Sloppy Interpretationsnomena in Table 1, we briefly discuss the algorithm'shandling of lazy pronoun cases.2 A Theory  o f  Para l le l i smThe Theory  A clause conveys a property or even-tuality, or describes a situation, or expresses aproposition.
We use the term "property" to coverall of these cases.
A property consists of a predi-cate applied to a number of arguments.
We makeuse of a duality between properties having a numberof arguments, and arguments having a number ofproperties.
Parallelism is characterized in terms ofa co-recursion i which the similarity of properties idefined in terms of the similarity of arguments, andthe similarity of arguments i  defined in terms of thesimilarity of properties.
1Two fragments of discourse stand in a parallel re-lation if they describe similar properties.
Two prop-erties are similar if two corresponding properties canbe inferred from them in which the predicates are thesame and the corresponding pairs of arguments areeither coreferential or similar.S imi la r ly (e l ,x1 ,  ..
?, Zl), p2(e2; x2, .
.
.
,  z2)\]:p~(el,xl, .
.
.
,Zx) ~ p' (e l ,x l , .
.
.
, z l )  andI e .
.
.
,  .
.
.
,  P2( 2,X2, Z2) Dp' (e2 ,x2 ,  z2), whereCorer (x1 , .
.
.
,  x2 .
.
.
.  )
or S imi la r \ [x1 ,  x2\],Corer (z1 , .
.
.
,  z2, .
.
.)
or S imi la r \ [ z1 ,  z2\]Two arguments are similar if their other, "inferen-tially independent" properties are similar.S imi la r \ [x l ,  x2\]:S imi la r~ ( .
.
.
,  z l ,  .
.
.
),p~2 ( .
.
.
,  x2, .
.
.)\],.
.
.S imi la r \ [q~ ( .
.
.
,  Xl , .
.
.
), q~ ( .
.
.
,  x2, .
.
.
)\]1This account is a elaboration of treatments of par-allelism by Hobbs (1979; 1985) and Kehler (1995).The constructed mapping between pairs of argu-ments must be preserved and remain one-to-one.There are three ways the recursion can bottomout.
we can run out of new arguments in prop-erties.
We can run out of new, inferentially inde-pendent properties of arguments.
And we can "bailout" of proving similarity by proving or assumingcoreference between the two entities.Two properties are in ferent ia l ly  independent  ifneither can be derived from the other.
Given aknowledge base K representing the mutual knowl-edge of the participants in the discourse, propertiesP1 and P2 are inferentially independent if neitherK,/)1 I-- P~ nor K, P2 ~- PI.
This rules out the casein which, for example, the fact that John and Billare both persons would be used to establish theirsimilarity when the fact that they are both menhas already been used.
Inferential independence isgenerally undecidable, but in practice this is not aproblem.
In discourse interpretation, all we usuallyknow about an entity is the small set of propertiespresented explicitly in the text itself.
We may takethese to be inferentially independent and look for nofurther properties, once properties inferrable fromthese have been used in establishing the parallelism.Similarity is a matter of degree.
The more corre-sponding pairs of inferentially independent proper-ties that are found, and the more contextually salientthose properties are, the stronger the similarity.
Ina system which assigns different costs to proofs (e.g.,Hobbs et al (1993)), the more costly the proofs re-quired to establish similarity are, the less similar theproperties or arguments hould seem.
Interpreta-tions should seek to maximize similarity.This account of parallelism is semantic in the sensethat it depends on the content of the discourse ratherthan directly on its form.
But syntax plays an im-plicit role.
When seeking to establish the paral-395lelism between two clauses, we must begin with the"top-level" properties; this is generally determinedby the syntactic structure of the clause.
Then theco-recursion through the arguments and propertiesnormally mirrors the syntactic structure of the sen-tence.
However, features of syntax that are not man-ifested in logical form are not taken into account.An  Example  To illustrate that the theory hasapplicability well beyond the problem of VP ellip-sis, we present an example of semantic parallelismin discourse.
It comes from an elementary physicstextbook, and is worked out in essentially the samemanner in Hobbs (1979).
(4) A ladder weighs 100 lb with its center of grav-ity 10 ft from the foot, and a 150 lb man is10 ft from the top.We will assume "the foot" has been identified as thefoot of the ladder.
Because it is a physics problem,we must reduce the two clauses to statements aboutforces acting on objects with magnitudes in a direc-tion at a point in the object:force(w1, L, dl, zl); force(w2, y, d2, x2)In the second clause we do not know that the manis standing on the ladder--he could be on the roof- -and we do not know what "the top" is the top of.These facts fall out of recognizing the parallelism.The procedure for establishing parallelism is il-lustrated in Figure 1, in which parallel elements areplaced on the same line.
The force predicates are thesame so there is no need to infer further properties.The first pair of arguments, wl and w2 are similar inthat both are weights.
To make the second pair ofarguments imilar, we can assume they are corefer-ential; as a by-product, this tells us that the objectthe man's weight is acting on is the ladder, and hencethat the man is on the ladder.
The third pair of argu-ments are both downward directions.
The final pairof arguments, x~ and x2, are similar if their proper-ties distance(x1, f, 20ft) and distance(x2, t, 10ft) aresimilar.
These will be similar if their previously un-matched pair of arguments f and t are similar.
Thisholds if their properties foot(f, L) and top(t, z) aresimilar.
We infer end(f, L) and end(t, z ), since feetand tops are ends.
Finally, we have to show L andz are similar.
We can do this by assuming they arecoreferential.
This, as a by-product, ells us that thetop is the top of the ladder.The use of inferences, such as '% foot is an end",means that this theory is parametric on a knowl-edge base.
Different sets of beliefs can yield differentbases for parallelism and indeed different judgmentsabout whether parallelism occurs at all.A crucial piece of our treatment of VP-ellipsis isthe explicit representation of coreference relations,denoted with the predicate Core\].
We could useequalities uch as y = L, or since equals can be re-placed by equals, simply replace y with L. However,doing this would lose the distinction between y andL under their corresponding descriptions.Consequently, we introduce the relationCorer(y, e~, x, el) to express this coreferentiality.This relation says that y under the description as-sociated with e2 is coreferential with x under thedescription associated with el.
From this we can in-fer y = x but not e2 = el, and the coreferentialitycannot be washed out in substitution.
A constrainton the arguments of Corefis that el and e2 be prop-erties of x and y respectively.The phenomenon of parallelism pervades dis-course.
In addition to straightforward examples ofparallelism like the above, there are also contrasts,exemplifications, and generalizations, which are de-fined in a similar manner.
The interpretation of anumber of syntactic onstructions depends on recog-nizing parallelism, including those cited in Table 1.In brief, our theory of parallelism is not somethingwe have introduced merely for the purpose of han-dling VP ellipsis; it is needed for a wide range ofsentential and discourse phenomena.Other Approaches Based on Para l le l i sm Ouraim in this paper is to present he theory of paral-lelism at an abstract enough level that it can be em-bedded in any sufficiently powerful framework.
By"sufficiently powerful" we mean that there must bea formalization of the notion of inference, strengthof inference, and inferential independence, and theremust be a reasonable knowledge base.
In Hobbs andKehler (forthcoming), we show how our approachcan be realized within the "Interpretation as Ab-duction" framework (Hobbs et al, 1993).There are at least two other treatments in whichVP ellipsis is resolved through a more general systemof determining discourse parallelism, namely, thoseof PriJst (1992) and Asher (1993).Prfist (1992) gives an account of parallelism devel-oped within the context of the Linguistic DiscourseModel theory (Scha and Polanyi, 1988).
Parallelismis computed by determining the "Most Specific Com-mon Denominator" of a set of representations, whichresults from unifying the unifiable aspects of thoserepresentations and generalizing over the others.
VPellipsis is resolved as a side effect of this unifica-tion.
The representations a sumed, called syntac-396f orce(wl , L, dl, xl )wl : lb(wl, 100)L : ladder(L)dl : Down(dl)xz : distance(xt, f 20ft)f :  foot(f ,  L) =~ end(f, L)L :force(w2, y, d~., z~.
)w2 : lb(w2,150)y :~  Coref (y ,  ..., L, ...)d2 :Down(d2)x2 : distance(x2, t 10ft)t : top(t, z) ~ end(t, z)z :~ Coref(z,  ..., L, ...)Figure 1: Example of Parallelism Establishmenttic/semantic structures, incorporate both syntacticand semantic information about an utterance.
Oneweakness of this approach is that it appears overlyrestrictive in the syntactic similarity that it requires.Asher (1993) also provides an analysis of VP ellip-sis in the context of a theory of discourse structureand coherence, using an extension of Discourse Rep-resentation Theory.
The resolution of VP ellipsisis driven by a need to maximize parallelism (or insome cases, contrast) that is very much in the spiritof what we present.Detailed comparisons with our approach are givenwith the examples below.
In general, however, inneither of these approaches has enough attentionbeen paid to other interacting phenomena toexplainthe facts at the level of detail that we do.3 VP  E l l ips i s :  A S imple  CaseWe first illustrate our approach on the simple caseof VP ellipsis in sentence (1).
The representationfor the antecedent clause in our "logical form" ~ ap-pears on the left-hand side of Figure 2.
Note thata Core\] relation links Xl, the variable correspondingto "he" (eventuality e13), to its antecedent j; theentity described by "John" (eventuality ell).From the second clause we know there is an elidedeventuality e22 of unknown type P, the logical sub-ject of which is the teacher t.P(e22, t)t : teachert(e21, t)Because of the ellipsis, e22 must stand in a parallelrelation to some previous eventuality; here the onlycandidate is John's revising his paper (e12).
To es-tablish Similar(el2, e22),3 we need to show that theircorresponding arguments are similar.
John j and the2The normally controversial term "logical form" isused loosely here, simply to capture the information thatthe hearer must bear in mind, at least implicitly, in in-terpreting texts such as sentence (1).3 We cannot establish coreference between the eventsbecause their agents are distinct.
In other cases, how-ever, the process can bail out immediately inevent coref-erence; consider the sentence "John revised his paper,teacher t are similar by virtue of being persons.
Thecorresponding objects Pl and/>2 are similar if we takep2 to be a paper and to have a Poss property similarto that of Pl.
The latter is true if corresponding tothe possessor Xl, there is an x2 that is similar to xl.In constructing the similarity between x2 and xl,we can either take them to be coreferential (case *a)or prove them to be similar by having similar prop-erties, including having similar dependencies tab.lished by Core\] (case *b).
In the former case, x~ iscoreferential with xl which is coreferential with Johnj, giving us the strict reading.
In the latter case, wemust preserve the previously-constructed mappingbetween John j (on which xl is dependent) and theteacher t; thus x2 is similar to xl if taken to becoreferential with t, giving us the sloppy reading.
44 A M iss ing  Read ings  ParadoxSentence (1) is the antecedent clause for example(2), one of the more problematic examples in theliterature.
Theoretically, this example could have asmany as six readings, paraphrased as follows:(5) John revised John's paper before the teacherrevised John's paper, and Bill revisedJohn's/Bill's paper before the teacher revisedJohn's/Bill's paper.
(6) John revised John's paper before the teacherrevised the teacher's paper, and Bill revisedJohn's/Bill's paper before the teacher evisedthe teacher's paper.smoking incessantly as he did."
A Core\] link is estab-lished between the elided and antecedent events in thesame way as for pronouns.
This symmetry accounts foranother problematic case, discussed in Section 6.4It is also possible to "bail out" in coreference be-tween the papers pl and p2; here we would get the strictreading again.
However, consider if the example had said"a paper of his" rather than "his paper".
The resultingsentence has two strict readings, one in which both re-vised the same paper of John's (generated by assumingcoreference between the papers), and one in which eachrevised a (possibly) different paper of John's (generatedby assuming coreference between the pronouns).397before'(el2, e22)revise'(e12, j Pl)j :  John ' (e l l , j )Pl : paper'(els,pl)Poss'(e14, x l ,p l )xl : he'(e13,xl)Coref(xl, el3, j, el l)revise'(e22, t,P2)t : teacher'(e21, t)P2 : papert(e25, P2)Poss' (e24, x2, P2)x2 : he'(e23,x2)\[Co~ef(z~., e23, xl, e13) (*a)\]\[Corel(z2, e23, t, e..,~) (*b)\]Figure 2: Representations for Simple CaseWe follow DSP in claiming that this example has fivereadings, in which the J J JB reading shown in (3) ismissing.
~ DSP, who use this case as a benchmarkfor theories of VP ellipsis, note that the methods ofSag (1976) and Williams (1977) can be seen to derivetwo readings, namely J J J J  and JTBT.
An analysisproposed by Gawron and Peters (1990), who firstintroduced this example, generates three readings(adding J JBB to the above two), as does the analysisof Fiengo and May (1994).
A method that Gawronand Peters attribute to Hans Kamp generates eitherfour readings, including the above three and JT JT ,or all six readings.
DSP's analysis strictly speak-ing generates all six readings; however, they appealto anaphor/antecedent li king relationships to elim-inate the J J JB reading.
However, these linking rela-tionships are not a by-product of the resolution pro-cess itself, but must be generated separately.
Ourapproach derives exactly the correct five readings.
6The antecedent clause is represented in Figure 2,and the expansion of the final VP ellipsis is shownin Figure 3.
In proving similarity, each pronoun canbe taken to be coreferential with its parallel element(cases *a, *c and *e), or proven similar to it (cases*b, *d, *f and *g).
If choice *a is taken in the sec-ond clause, then the "similarity" choice in the fourthclause must be *f; if *b, then *g. If *a and *c arechosen, the J J J J  reading results.
If *a, *d, and *eare chosen, the J JBJ reading results.
If *a, *d, and*f are chosen, the JJBB reading results.
If *b and *care chosen, the JT JT  reading results.
If *b and *dare chosen, the JTBT reading results.
Thus takingall possible choices gives us all acceptable readings.Now consider what it would take to obtain the*J J JB reading.
The variable x3 would have to be5Each reading for this example contains four descrip-tions of papers that were revised.
We use the notationJJJB to represent the reading in which the first threepapers are John's and fourth is Bill's, corresponding toreading (3).
Other uses of such notation should be un-derstood analogously.6The approach presented inKehler (1993) also derivesthe correct five readings, however, our method has ad-vantages in its being more general and better motivated.coreferential with John and x4 with Bill.
The for-mer requirement forces us to pick case *c. But thencase *e makes x4 coreferential with either John orthe teacher (depending on how the first ellipsis wasresolved).
Case *f makes x4 coreferential with John,and case *g makes it coreferential with the teacher.There is no way to get x4 coreferential with Bill oncewe have set x3 to something other than Bill.Neither Prtist (1992) nor Asher (1993) discuss thisexample.
In extrapolating from the analyses Pr/istgives, we find that his analysis generates only twoof the five readings.
Briefly, if the first ellipsis isresolved to the strict reading, then the J J J J  read-ing is possible.
If the first ellipsis is resolved to thesloppy reading, then only the JTBT reading is possi-ble.
Asher's account, extrapolating from an examplehe discusses (p. 371), may generate as many as sixreadings, including the missing reading.
This read-ing results from the manner in which the strict read-ing for the first ellipsis is generated--the final clausepronoun is resolved with the entity specified by thesubject of the antecedent clause, whereas our algo-rithm creates a dependency between the pronounand its parallel element in the antecedent clause.Our mechanism is more natural because of the align-ment of parallel elements between clauses when es-tablishing parallelism, and it is this property whichresults in the underivability of the missing reading.5 A Source-o f -E l l ips is  ParadoxDSP identify two kinds of analysis in the VP ellip-sis literature.
In identity-of-relations analyses (Sag,1976; Williams, 1977; Gawron and Peters, 1990;Fiengo and May, 1994, inter alia) strict/sloppy read-ings arise from an ambiguity in the antecedent VPderivation.
The ambiguity in the ellipsis resultsfrom copying each possibility.
In non-identity ap-proaches (Dalrymple, Shieber, and Pereira, 1991;Kehler, 1993; Crouch, 1995, inter alia) strict/sloppyreadings result from a choice point within the reso-lution algorithm.
Our approach falls into this class.Non-identity approaches are supported by exam-ples such as (7), which has reading (8).398before(e32, e42)revise'  (e32, b, P3 )b : Bil l '(e31, b)p3 : paper'(e35, P3)P oss' ( e34 , x 3 , P3 )x3 : he'(e33,x3)\[(*c) C,:,'ef(z3, e33, =~, e~3)\]\[(*d) Core.f (z3, e33, b, e31)\]Figure 3: Representations(7) John realizes that he is a fool, but Bill doesnot, even though his wife does.
(Dahl, 1972)(8) John realizes that John is a fool, but Bill doesnot realize that Bill is a fool, even thoughBill's wife realizes Bill is a fool.Example (7) contains two ellipses.
Reading (8) re-sults from the second clause receiving a sloppy in-terpretation from the first, and the third clause re- .ceiving a strict interpretation from the second.
Anidentity-of-relations analysis, however, predicts thatthis reading does not exist.
Because the secondclause will only have the sloppy derivation receivedfrom the first, the strict derivation that the thirdclause requires from the second will not be present.However, in defending their identity-of-relationsapproach, Gawron and Peters (1990) note that anon-identity account predicts that sentence (9) hasthe (nonexistent) reading given in (10).
(9) John revised his paper before Bill did, butafter the teacher did.
(10) John revised John's paper before Bill revisedBill's paper, but after the teacher revisedJohn's paper.In this case, the first clause is the antecedent forboth ellipses.
These two examples create a paradox;apparently neither type of analysis (nor any previousanalyses we are aware of) can explain both.Our analysis accounts for both examples througha mutually-constraining i teraction of parallelisms.Example (7) is fairly straightforward, sowe focus onexample (9).
Let us refer to the clauses as clauses 1,2, and 3.
Because clauses 2 and 3 are VP-elliptical,we must establish a parallelism between each ofthem and clause 1.
In addition, the contrast rela-tion signalled by "but" is justified by the contrast-ing predicates "before" and "after", provided theircorresponding pairs of arguments are similar.
Theirfirst arguments are similar since they are identical--clause 1.
Then we also have to establish the similar-ity of their second arguments--clause 2 and clause 3.revise'  (e42 , t, p4 )t : teacher'(e41, t)P4 : paper'(e45,P4)Poss'(e44, x4, P4)x4 : he'(e4z, x4)\[Co~e/(z4, e43, z2, e~3) (*e)\]\[Core/(z4, e43, z3, e33) (*f)\]\[Co~el(x~, e,3, t, e,1) (*g)\]for Five Readings CaseThus, three mutually constraining parallelisms mustbe established: 1 - 2, 1 - 3, and 2 - 3.In Figure 4, cases *a and *b arise from the coref-erence and similarity options when establishing theparallelism between clauses 1 and 2, and cases *cand *d from the parallelism between clauses 1 and3.
However, because parallelism is also required be-tween clauses 2 and 3, we cannot choose these op-tions freely.
If we choose case *a, then we mustchoose case *c, giving us the J J J  reading.
If wechoose case *b, then we must choose case *d, givingus the JBT reading.
Because of the mutual con-straints of the three parallelisms, no other readingsare possible.
This is exactly the right result.Prtist (1992) essentially follows Sag's (1976) treat-ment of strict and sloppy readings, which, like otheridentity-of-relations analyses, will not generate thereading of the cascaded ellipsis sentence (7) shownin (8).
While the approach will correctly predict helack of reading (10) for sentence (9), it does so forthe wrong reason.
Whereas ellipsis resolution does:not permit such readings in any circumstance in hisaccount, we claim that the lack of such readings for?
sentence (9) is due to constraints imposed by multi-ple parallelisms, and not because of the correctnessof identity-of-relations analyses.Asher's (1993) analysis falls into the non-identityclass of analyses, a~ld therefore makes the correctpredictions for sentence (7).
While he does not dis-cuss the contrast between this case and sentence (9),we do not see any reason why his framework couldnot accommodate our solution.6 Other  ExamplesMissing Readings with Mul t ip le  P ronounsDahl (1974) noticed that sentence (11) has onlythree readings instead of the four one might expect.The reading Bill said that John revised Bill 's paperis missing.
(11) John said that he revised his paper, and Billdid too.399before(el2, e22)e12 :revise'(e12,j,  pl)j :  John ' (e l l , j )Pl : paper'(e15,P1)Poss'  (e14, xl, Pl)2;1 : he'(e13,x1)Co~ef (x l ,  el3, j, e11)after(el2, e32)e32 : revise'(e32, t,p3)t : teacher'(e31, t)P3 : paper~(e3s,P3)Poss' (e34, x3, P3)x3 : he'(e33,x3)\[Corer(x3, e33, Zl, el3) (*C)\]\[Corer(z3, e33, t, e31) (*d)\]e22 : revise' (e22, b, p2 )b : Billl(e21, b)P2 : paper' (e25, P2 )Poss'(e24, x2, P2)x2 : he'(e23,x2)\[Co~e/(=2, e 3, Zl, e13) (*a)\]\[Coref(x=, e23, b, e21) (*b)\]Figure 4: Representations for the Source-of-Ellipsis ParadoxIn contrast, the similar sentence given in (12) ap-pears to have all four readings.
(12) John said that his teacher evised his paper,and Bill did too.The readings derived by our analysis depend onthe Core\] relations that hold between the corefer-ring noun phrases in the antecedent clauses.
Forsentence (11), the correct readings result if his islinked to he and he to John; for sentence (12), thecorrect readings result if both pronouns are linked toJohn.
Other cases in the literature indicate that thesituation is more complicated than might initially beevident.
Handling these cases requires an accountof how such dependencies are established, which wediscuss in Hobbs and Kehler (forthcoming).Extended Para l le l i sm In some cases, the ele-ments involved in a sloppy reading may not be con-tained in the minimal clause containing the ellipsis.
(13) John told a man that Mary likes him, andBill told a boy that Susan does.
~(14) The man who gives his paycheck to his wifeis wiser than the man who gives it to his mis-tress.
(Karttunen, 1969)the pronoun it does not refer to the first man's pay-check but the second's.In text, it normally requires an explicit, corefer-ring antecedent.
However, the parallelism betweenthe clauses licenses a sloppy reading via the similar-ity option..
The real world fact that to give some-thing to someone, you first must have it, leads to astrong preference for the sloppy reading.It is necessary to have parallelism in order to li-cense the lazy pronoun reading.
If we eliminate thepossibility of parallelism, as in(15) John revised his paper, and then Bill handedit in.the lazy pronoun reading is not available, eventhough the have-before-give constraint is not satis-fied.
To interpret his sentence, we are more likelyto assume an unmentioned transfer event betweenthe two explicit events.S loppy Read ings  wi th  Events  Sentence (16)has a "sloppy" reading in which the second mainclause means "I will kiss you even if you don't wantme to kiss you.
"(16) I will help you if you want me to, but I willkiss you even if you don't, sDeriving this reading requires a Core\] relation be-tween the elided event and its antecedent in thefirst main clause, which is obtained when our al-gorithm bails out in event coreference (see footnote8Mark Gawron, p.c., attributed to Carl Pollard.Although the antecedent clause for "Susan does"is "Mary likes him", there is a sloppy reading inwhich "Bill told a boy that Susan likes Bill".
Thisfact is problematic for accounts of VP ellipsis thatoperate only within the minimal clauses.
Thesereadings are predicted by our account, as John andBill are parallel in the main clauses.Lazy  P ronouns  "Lazy pronouns" can be ac-counted for similarly.
InTThis example isdue to Priist (1992), whose approachsuccessfully handles this example.4003).
Then in expahding the VP ellipsis in the sec-ond main clause, taking the similarity option for theevent generates the desired reading.Inferential ly-Determined Antecedents Web-bet (1978) provides everal examples in which theantecedent of an ellipsis is derived inferentially:(17) Mary wants to go to Spain and Fred wants togo to Peru, but because of limited resources,only one of them can.Our account of parallelism applies twice in han-dling this example, once in creating a complexantecedent from recognizing the parallelism be-tween the first two clauses, and again in resolv-ing the ellipsis against his antecedent.
Hobbs andKehler (forthcoming) describe the analysis of thiscase as well as others involving quantification.7 SummaryWe have given a general account of parallelism indiscourse and applied it to the special case of resolv-ing possible readings for instances of VP ellipsis.
Indoing so, we showed how a variety of examples thathave been problematic for previous approaches areaccounted for in a natural and straightforward fash-ion.
Furthermore, the generality of the approachmakes it directly applicable to a variety of othertypes of ellipsis and reference in natural language.AcknowledgementsThe authors thank Mark Gawron, David Israel, andthree anonymous reviewers for helpful comments.This research was supported by National ScienceFoundation/Advanced Research Projects AgencyGrant IRI-9314961.Re ferencesAsher, Nicholas.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Ob-jects inDiscourse.
SLAP 50, Dordrecht, Kluwer.Crouch, Richard.
1995.
Ellipsis and quantifica-tion: A substitutional approach.
In Proceedings ofEACL-95, pages 229-236, Dublin, Ireland, March.Dahl, Osten.
1972.
On so-called "sloppy" identity.Gothenburg Papers in Theoretical Linguistics, 11.University of GSteborg.Dahl, Osten.
1974.
How to open a sentence: Ab-straction in natural anguage.
In Logical Gram-mar Reports, No.
12.
University of GSteborg.Dalrymple, Mary, Stuart M. Shieber, and FernandoPereira.
1991.
Ellipsis and higher-order unifica-tion.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 14:399-452.Fiengo, Robert and Robert May.
1994.
Indices andIdentity.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Gawron, Mark and Stanley Peters.
1990.
Ana-phora and Quantification in Situation Semantics.CSLI/University of Chicago Press, Stanford Uni-versity.
CSLI Lecture Notes, Number 19.Hardt, Daniel.
1992.
VP ellipsis and contextual in-terpretation.
In Proceedings COLING-92, Nantes.Hobbs, Jerry R.. 1979.
Coherence and coreference.Cognitive Science, 3:67-90.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1985.
On the coherence and struc-ture of discourse.
Technical Report CSLI-85-37,Center for the Study of Language and Informa-tion, Stanford University, October.Hobbs, Jerry R. and Andrew Kehler.
Forthcoming.A general theory of parallelism and the specialcase of VP ellipsis.
Technical report, SRI Interna-tional.Hobbs, Jerry R., Mark E. Stickel, Douglas E. Ap-pelt, and Paul Martin.
1993.
Interpretation asabduction.
Artificial Intelligence, 63:69-142.Karttunen, Lauri.
1969.
Pronouns and variables.In Papers from the Fifth Regional Meeting of theChicago Linguistics Society.Kehler, Andrew.
1993.
A discourse copying algo-rithm for ellipsis andanaphora resolution.
In Pro-ceedings of EACL-93, pages 203-212, Utrecht, theNetherlands, April.Kehler, Andrew.
1995.
Interpreting Cohesive Formsin the Context of Discourse Inference.
Ph.D. the-sis, Harvard University.Lappin, Shalom and Michael McCord.
1990.
Ana-phora resolution in slot grammar.
ComputationalLinguistics, 16:197-212.Pr/ist, Hub.
1992.
On Discourse Structuring, VPAnaphora, and Gapping.
Ph.D. thesis, Universityof Amsterdam.Sag, Ivan.
1976.
Deletion and Logical Form.
Ph.D.thesis, MIT.Scha, Remko and Livia Polanyi.
1988.
An aug-mented context free grammar for discourse.
InProceedings of COLING-88, pages 573-577, Bu-dapest, August.Webber, Bonnie Lynn.
1978.
A Formal Approach toDiscourse Anaphora.
Ph.D. thesis, Harvard Uni-versity.Williams, Edwin.
1977.
Discourse and logical form.Linguistic Inquiry, 8(1).401
