{tappe,Coherence in Spoken Discourse*Heike Tappe and Frank SchilderComputer Science DepartmentHamburg UniversityVogt-Krlln-Str.
30D-22527 HamburgGermanyschi Ider}@informatik.
uni-hamburg, deAbstractThis paper explores the possibilities and limits of adiscourse grammar applied to spontaneous speech.Most discourse grammars (e.g.
SDRT, Asher, 1993;RST, Mann & Thompson, 1988) tend to be descrip-tive theories of written discourse which presupposea coherent structure.
This structure is the outcomeof a goal directed planning process on the part ofthe producer.
In order to obtain a better understand-ing of the planning process we analyse spoken dis-course elicited in an experimental setting.
Subjectsdescribe the pixel-per-pixel development of sketch-maps on a computer screen.
This forces the speak-ers to conceptualise the perceived state of affairs,plan their discourse, and produce a description ofthe drawing at the same time.
Thus we find evi-dence for the planning process in the recorded ataand can show that the discourse structures are lessglobally coherent than those underlying written text.In our paper we discuss to what extent a flexible dis-course grammar based on a Tree Description Gram-mar (TDG) (Schilder, 1997) can handle such data.I IntroductionWe investigate in this paper to what extent a dis-course grammar is capable of analysing sponta-neous speech that is obviously not as well structuredas written text.
The example text discussed containsquestions and remarks which do not seem to be partof the discourse.
Nevertheless, we believe that theentire spoken discourse is to be represented by onediscourse structure.
Evidence for this assumptioncomes from the observation that anaphoric refer-ences are made between questions which apparently* This work is partly funded by the German Science Founda-tion (DFG), research project 'Conceptualization Processes inLanguage Production: an Empirically Founded Model on theBasis of Event Description' (Funding Number: HA 1237/10-1).comment on the planning process and the actual de-scription of the sketch-map.Following Schilder (1997) a discourse gram-mar based on a Tree Description Grammar (TDG)(Kallmeyer, 1996) is used for the analysis of an ex-ample text.
TDG is employed to encode the dy-namics of the discourse structure.
Other discoursetheories like Segmented Discourse RepresentationTheory (SDRT) (Asher, 1993) or Rhetorical Struc-ture Theory (RST) (Mann & Thompson, 1988) offeronly a descriptive xplanation.The remaining part of the paper is organised asfollows.
Section 2 contains a description of the ex-perimental setting in which the example discoursewas obtained (Habel and Tappe, forthcoming).
Sec-tion 3 provides an outline of the example before ashort introduction to the discourse grammar is givenin section 4.
Section 5 offers the formalisation ofthe example discourse and section 6 concludes anddescribes areas for ongoing research.2 Method  and material2.1 MethodSubjects were presented with sketch-maps.
Thesewere previously drawn by students who had beenasked to sketch the route between the Computer Sci-ence Department and the main campus of their uni-versity.
Since the two landmarks are approximately6 km apart, all of the sketch-maps included somemeans of transport.
The drawings were made on adrawing tablet and subsequently stored on a com-puter hard-disc.
In the verbalisation-phase replaysof the drawings were used as stimulus material.
Anew group of subjects was presented with one of thedrawings.
They had to carefully watch what hap-pened and simultaneously describe what they wereseeing, while the graphical objects became visibleon the previously empty screen in the same chrono-logical order they were produced.
The verbaliserswere familiar with the route between the two Uni-1294versity buildings, yet they did not know what mate-rial they were going to be confronted with.2.2 MaterialFor the present analysis we chose a fragment of oneof the online-verbalisations, consisting of the firstseven utterances describing the sketch-map segmentthat is illustrated in figure 1.Figure 1: The sketch-mapThe graphical objects in this sketch represent thefollowing objects: the Computer Science depart-ment and the streets leading from the building.
Thispart of the sketch-map is described by a 32 year old,right-handed computer scientist.3 Analys is  of  the text f ragmentThe text fragment contains a variety of features thatare characteristic of spoken rather than of writtendiscourse.
In this section we will look at each of theutterances in greater detail and show how the dis-course coherence is maintained by the speaker.
Hestarts talking as soon as he sees the rectangle beingdrawn on the screen.
The first utterance (U1) canbe characterised as a statement about the speaker'scurrent mental state:UI: Ja, ich weiB ja schon worum es geht, (Yes, I alreadyknow what this is all about,)The speaker hereby expresses a self-belief the con-tent of which can be circumscribed as follows: I (thespeaker) know which states-of-affairs I am about osee on the computer screen.
This utterance servesas a kind of background for what follows.
Withhis statement, the speaker commits himself to provethat he really knows what is going on.
With the sub-sequent utterance (U2) he demonstrates that he hasat least some intuition about the stimulus material:He assigns the rectangle the name of the depictedreal world object.U2: also das wird das Informatikgebtiude... mitder Be-schreibung daneben.
(well this is going to be the build-ing of the Computer Science department.., with the an-notation ext o it)Accordingly, he fulfills part of the felicity condi-tions that accompany assertions about the posses-sion of knowledge, i.e.
he elaborates on the con-tent of his belief-state.
The elaboration-relationbetween (U1) and (U2) is triggered by the dis-course marker also.
With the next utterance thespeaker adds further information to his states-of-affairs-description.U3: und die StraSen die jetzt angefangen werden zumalen...(and the streets that are now started to bedrawn... )Therefore, we can categorise the relation between(U2) and (U3) as a narration-relation.
This relationdoes not add a new perspective or a new theme to theongoing discourse, but rather supports its continua-tion.
On contrast, (U4) establishes a break in theongoing discourse.
The discourse marker eigentlichsignals that the speakers has build up an expectationabout the continuation of the drawing event on thebasis of his belief state.U4: Eigentlich wiirde ich erwarten,(Actually I would ex-pect)The content of the belief state is - -  as mentionedbefore - -  that the speaker believes to know whatwill be drawn.
Yet, this belief state ends here, be-cause even though the speaker ightly interprets thedeveloping double lines to represent streets (cf.
U3above) his further expectation is not met.
The con-tent of this expectation is expressed in (U5):U5: daB irgendwo die Bushaltestelle noch eingezeichnetwird, da im... (that the bus stop was drawn into it some-where, there in the... )Obviously the speaker expects that the drawing willcontain a symbol representing a bus-stop near to thebuilding.
This is not the case.
Therefore the rhetor-ical relation between (U4) and (U1) is that of a ter-mination.
We see that rhetorical relations do notnecessarily hold between adjacent utterances only,but that an utterance may open a subtree that can beclosed off by an utterance that is verbalised a coupleof utterances later.
(U5) breaks off with a preposi-tional phrase that lacks the location argument (...daim...).
The speaker is quite obviously insecure aboutthe name of the street that contains the bus-stop.
(U6) reveals his insecurity.U6: (a) wie heist das Ding, heist das Gazellenkamp?
(b)Ja, ne?
... (what is it called, is it called Gazellenkamp?Yes, isn't it?..
.
)The structure in U6 is very typical for spoken dis-1295course.
It is not in a strict sense part of the ongoingdiscourse, but the verbalisation of vocabulary searchand planning processes.
We hold that the interrog-ative intonation functions as a signal, allowing theintegration of a substructure that is not connectedto the previous discourse via a prototypical rhetor-ical relation.
The substructure itself can be inter-preted as a meta-comment about the ongoing men-tal processes.
This substructure is closed off by (U7)which begins with aber ('but').U7:Aber .... keine Bushaltestelle (But... no bus stop)This discourse marker allows the speaker to returnto the branching node of the discourse structurewhere the digression was introduced.4 Discourse grammar4.1 Tree descriptionsA definition of TDG is given by Kallmeyer (1996)who introduces tree descriptions consisting of con-straints for finite labelled trees.
A dominance rela-tion (<~*) between ode labels indicates that thesetwo labels can be equated or have a path of arbitrarylength inserted between them.
The second relationbetween odes is the parent relation (<~) which isirreflexive, asymmetric and intransitive.The tree's root node D labelled kl in figure 2,for example, dominates another node labelled k2.According to the definition of <~* these two nodesmay be equal or an arbitrary number of other nodesmay be in between them.
An adjoining operationkl :DIIk2:Dk3:D k4:DIIks:DIkr:SFigure 2: A labelled tree descriptionis easily defined because of this property.
Fur-ther tree descriptions can be inserted between suchnodes.
The descriptions which are, formally speak-ing, negation-free formulae of constraints on thenodes, are conjoined.
The nodes where the adjunc-tion takes place are set to equal.i~Figure 3shows an example.4.2 A flexible discourse grammarAccording to Schilder (1997), feature value struc-tures are added to the tree logic in order to enrichit with rhetorical relations and further discourse in-formation.
One non-terminal symbol is used for theD(iscourse) segments, whereas the terminals are theS(entences).Two features are added to the tree description toencode the semantic ontent of the sentence and the'topic' information expressed in a discourse.
Firstly,S gets associated with the meaning of a sentencevia a feature CONT(ENT) containing all discoursereferents and the conditions imposed on them.
2Secondly, afeature PROMI(NENT) is added that isused to define the notion of openness within a dis-course.
This feature refects the fact that one situa-tion described by an utterance (e.g.
situation el de-scribed by U1) is subordinated by another one whencombined via a rhetorical relation.
It furthermoreexhibits the restriction of the further utterances tothe right frontier of the discourse tree (cf.
(Webber,1991)).For the discourse structure two types of tree de-scriptions have to be distinguished.
One tree struc-ture allows attachment on two levels of the rightfrontier of the tree.
This tree is called subordinatedtree and the structure is schematically indicated infigure 2.
The other one is a subordinating structurethat is triggered by discourse relations such as nar-ration or result.
Further attachment is only possibleat the last uttered sentence.
35 Formalisat ionThe discourse structure obtained for the first threesentences of the example text is reflected in figure3.
At first an elaboration relation is established be-tween (U1) and (U2).
The imposed iscourse struc-ture (i.e.
a subordinated tree as in figure 2) allowsattachment at two levels.
Note furthermore that theelaboration relation holds between the mental stateof the producer (i.e.
I already know what this is allabout) and the description of what is happening onthe screen.
4(U3) is connected with (U2) via narration.
Theadjunction operation in figure 3 shows how the2We presume that his content isrepresented by a discourserepresentation structure as standard DRT would predict (Kampand Reyle, 1993).3See the right ree in figure 3.4These rhetorical relations are underlined in the figure tohighlight their different status.1296?IIIIoIl'IET: narr(I-~\] , )JI,,D\[PROMI:Is \[CONT: \[\]\]Figure 3: Two discourse segments combinedD\[ ROM,Inewly generated sentence is incorporated in the cur-rent discourse structure.Although the production took place under a cer-tain amount of pressure, the right frontier principlewas never violated.
The speaker never went backor made anaphoric references to discourse referentsbeing behind this frontier.Having demonstrated how the production of thediscourse structure can be formally described for thefirst three utterances, we now want to focus on aparticularly interesting problem exhibited by the se-quence (U4) to (U6).
This sequence contains rhetor-ical questions, which describe the ongoing planningprocess of the speaker.
5The sequence starts with an expectation(i.e.
(U4)) the subject utters.
Again the propositionexpressed is related to the mental state of thespeaker.
Interestingly enough, he has to return tothe top level of the discourse tree and continuefrom there.
Consequently, the discourse segmentcontaining (U2) and (U3) is 'cut off' and notavailable for further attachment.Embedded within the expectation is an utterancedescribing the ongoing planning and searching pro-cess.
The verbalised questions reflect he request othe mental exicon and the mental map the subjecthas got of this area.The discourse grammar consequently has to beSNote that such a sequence would never be found in a writ-ten text.extended in order to maintain a coherent discoursestructure for the modelling of the producer.
Thusrhetorical relations describing planning processesare introduced.
With these, the discourse gram-mar becomes capable of representing a coherent dis-course structure for the spoken language despite thefact that the entire discourse segment does not seemas coherent as written text.Figure 4 contains the discourse structure after thesearch for the street name has come to an end.
Onerhetorical relation introduced is p(lan)_commentwhich describes the ongoing planning process.
Italso involves a search for the correct word in thelexicon.
The rhetorical quest(ion) is asked whetherthe correct word has been chosen and this questionanswered by the subject.
The summarising yes, isn'tit (i.e.
(U6b)) ends the search process and closes thediscourse structure at the right frontier.Interestingly enough, the clue given by the dis-course marker but uttered in (U7) is absolutely es-sential.
The speaker indicates with this marker thathe wants to return to the top level of the discoursetree and to add a contrast relation to the expectation.The construction of the discourse structure contin-ues therefore at the top level of the tree in figure 4.6 ConclusionWe have shown that spoken discourse can be for-malised by a discourse grammar based on TDG.Even planning processes that surface as rhetor-1297(U1-U3)DIIDI pRoMI: \[~\] \] \[RI~T: term(\[~\],\[~)I s\[ o TD!IID\[ PROMI: \[~\]RHET: p_corament(\['~'\],\[~.
.
.
.
.
.
- - - - - .
.
- _ ____D\[PROMI: fffl\]I S\[CONr: S\]D\[ PROMI: \[~\]RHET: quest(\['~'\],\[~D\[PROMI: I-~-I\]I S\[coNr: r~\]Figure 4: The planning process within the discourse structureical questions can be incorporated into the dis-course structure generated.
New rhetorical relationswere introduced that should prove useful for NLP-applications.
In ongoing research we focus on theinteraction between planning sequences, discoursestructure and intentional structure.ReferencesNicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to abstract Ob-jects in Discourse, volume 50 of Studies in Lin-guistics and Philosophy.
Kluwer Academic Pub-lishers, Dordrecht.Christopher Habel and Heike Tappe.
forthcoming.Processes of segmentation and linearization indescribing events.
In Ch.
von Stutterheim andR.
Meyer-Klabunde, editors, Processes in lan-guage production.Laura Kallmeyer.
1996.
Underspecification iTree Description Grammars.
Arbeitspapiere desSonderforschungsbereichs 340 81, University ofTiibingen, Ttibingen, December.Hans Kamp and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
From Discourseto Logic: Introduction to Modeltheoretic Seman-tics of Natural Language, volume 42 of Studiesin Linguistics and Philosophy.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers, Dordrecht.William Mann and Sandra Thompson.
1988.Rhetorical structure theory: Toward a functionaltheory of text organisationn.
Text, 8(3):243-281.Frank Schilder.
1997.
Temporal Relations in En-glish and German Narrative Discourse.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Edinburgh, Centre for Cog-nitive Science.Bonnie L. Webber.
1991.
Structure and ostensionin the interpretation of discourse deixis.
Lan-guage and Cognitive Processes, 6(2): 107-135.1298
