Diagram Understanding Using Integration ofLayout Information and Textual InformationYasuh iko  WatanabeRyukoku  Un ivers i tySeta, OtsuSh iga ,  Japanwatanabe@r ins .
ryukoku .ac .
jpMakoto NagaoKyoto Univers i tyYosh ida ,  Sakyo-kuKyoto ,  Japannagao@kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp1 In t roduct ionPattern information and natural anguage informa-tion used together can complement and reinforceeach other to enable more effective communicationthan can either medium alone (Feiner 91) (Naka-mura 93).
One of the good examples is a pictorialbook of flora (PBF).
In the PBF, readable xplana-tions which combine texts, pictures, and diagramsare achieved, as shown in Figure 1 and 2.
Takingadvantage of this, we propose here a new methodfor analyzing the PBF diagrams by using naturallanguage information.In the PBF, many kinds of information aboutplants are generally stored in the following media:?
picture,?
explanation text, and?
diagram.Pictures and explanation texts describe the shape,botany, and environment of each plant, as shown inFigure 1.
On the contrary, as shown in Figure 2,diagrams describe very clearly the following kindsof information:?
correspondence b tween each part of the plantand its name?
part-whole relationship and synonymous wordsAs a result, diagrams are quite important in or-der to understand the explanation of each plant.For example, pictures and explanation texts cannotconvey the information which is necessary to answerthe following questions:?
which part of plant is "takuyou (stipules)"??
what shape is "hishinkei (lanceolate shape)"?Consequently, we have to investigate the methodfor understanding diagrams.It is certain that diagrams are effective meansof communication.
However, it is also true thatwe feel difficulties when we try to understand ia-grams without he explanation by natural anguage.From this, we conclude that natural anguage infor-mation is important o understand iagrams.
Cornsequently, we propose a new framework for the in-spiraea cantoniensis~: - -~ ,  ~ 1.5m ~'~-2-5cm, W 6-20mm~ a~j,Figure 1: An example ofa PBF article (in Japanese)chumyaku (midrib)youeki (axii) !mitsusen youhei (petiole) !
(nectary) ~ takuyou (stipules)-- ha (leaf)Figure 2: An examples of PBF diagrams (leaf)tegration of pattern (layout) information and natu-ral language information for semantic understand-ing the PBF diagrams.
In this study, for the obser-vation and experiments, we use a PBF (in Japanese)the subject of which are wild flowers of Japan.1374!/ \daenkei hishinkei shinkei('ellipsoidal) ('lanceolate) ~cordate\ shap  )k shape \ shapeha no katachi (leaf shape)Figure 3: The shape of leaf2 Diagram Understanding2.1 PBF  Diagram UnderstandingA diagram in the PBF consists of its title and ele-ments.
A title shows the subject of the diagram andit is generally located under the diagram.
Elementsmay be classified into three types:?
symbol,?
sketch,?
word.Symbols (arrow, line, parenthesis, etc.)
connect di-agram elements.
Sketches represent the features ofa plant readably and accurately.
The features rep-resented by sketches are explained by words in thediagram.
Observing the PBF diagrams, the infor-mation explained by words is classified into five cat-egories, such as:1. names of plant parts.
(example) "takuyou (stipules)" in Figure 22. types of plant parts.
(example) "taika (follicle)" and "mikanjyoka(hespidium)" in Figure 43. properties of plant parts.
(example) "daenkei (ellipsoidal shape)" in Fig-ure 34. names of plant species.
(example) "katsura" and "natsumikan" in Fig-ure 45. additional explanation.
(example) "shinpi no chuou ga sakeru (carpelsplits open in its center)" in Figure 5Diagram understanding is the semantic interpreta-tion of the elements in the diagram.
As mentioned,in the PBF diagrams, the information representedby sketches is explained by words.
From this, we?can''katsura 'taika (follicle) mikanjyoka (hespidlum)kajitsu" (fruit).Figure 4: The variety of fruitshouhairekkai(Ioculicidal dehiscence)shinpi no chuou ga sakeru(carpel splits open in its center)rekka i  (dehiscence)Figure 5: The process of dehiscenceconclude that the semantic interpretation of thePBF diagrams is the classification of words in a di-agram into these five categories.For this purpose, we propose anew framework forthe semantic interpretation of words in the PBF di-agrams by using not only the pattern (layout) infor-mation but also the natural anguage information.The reason is as follows: there is no composing rulethat strongly restricts the positions of elements andthe semantic relations between elements.
In otherwords, there are many ways of composing diagramsto explain an idea.
For this reason, it is difficult tointerpret he PBF diagrams only by using the pat-tern (layout) information.
For example, "daenkei(ellipsoidal shape)", "hishinkei (lanceolate shape)",and "shinkei (cordate shape)" in Figure 3 representthe properties of the plant part, on the contrary,"taika (follicle)" and "mikanjyoka (hespidium)" inFigure 4 represent the types of the plant part.
Inspite of the semantic difference, all these words arelocated under the corresponding sketches, respec-tively.2.2 Related WorkThere are a few research topics related to diagramunderstanding.
(Plant 89) (Futrelle 90) recognizedthe semantic structure of diagrams as the extensionof diagram analysis.
But they analyzed diagrams1375by using knowledge about diagrams which is quiteseparate from natural language information.
Onthe contrary, (Nakamura 93) analyzed iagrams inthe encyclopedia dictionary by using its explanationtexts and the thesaurus information.
But it is diffi-cult to analyze the PBF diagrams in the same wayas (Nakamura 93) did.
The reasons are as follows:?
It is certain that the explanation texts in thePBF are closely related to the PBF diagrams.However, these texts do not describe the con-tents of diagrams but the features of plants.That is, there is no explanation text for thePBF diagrams.?
Words in the PBF diagrams are generally tech-nical terms which are not registered in thecommon thesaurus.To solve these problems, we propose a new frame-work to analyze the PBF diagrams by using manykinds of clue expressions in the PBF explanationtexts.3 In fo rmat ion  fo r  PBF  D iagramUnders tand ing3.1 Layout Informat ionFor analyzing the PBF diagrams, we utilize twokinds of layout information.
These are:?
type of relationships between diagram elements?
similarity of spatial relationships between di-agram elementsEvery word in the PBF diagrams is related to theother elements (sketches or other words).
The re-lationships between words and the correspondingelements are classified into 2 types:connection is the relationship between the wordand its corresponding element.
These are con-nected together by a symbol.
For example, therelationship between "takuyou (stipules)" andthe "leaf" sketch in Figure 2 is connection.adjacency is the relationship between the wordand its corresponding element.
These are ad-jacent to each other and not connected bya symbol.
For example, the relationship be-tween "natsumikan" and the right sketch inthe Figure 4 is adjacency.A word connected by a symbol represents a nameof the plant part.
Consequently, in this case, thespatial relationship between the word and the corre-sponding element is not important for the semanticinterpretation.
For example, the semantic interpre-tation of "mitsusen (nectary)" in Figure 2 wouldremain unchanged even if "mi~susen" was locatedon the right of the "leaf" sketch.On the contrary, a word which is not connectedby a symbol may represent any type of informa-tion.
Consequently, in this case, the spatial rela-tionship between the word and the correspondingelement is important for the semantic interpreta-tion.
For example, it is inadequate to replace theposition between "mikanjyoka" and "natsumikan"in Figure 4.
It is because the replacement breaks thesimilarity of the spatial relationship which "mikan-jyoka (hespidium)" and "taika (follicle)" have.
Inthis way, words in the PBF diagrams which repre-sent the same kind of information, often have thesame spatial relationship.
From this, we utilize thesimilarity of the spatial relationships for the prop-agation of the semantic interpretation i  this way:suppose that words A and B have the same spatialrelationship.
If A is given the semantic interpreta-tion but B is not, the semantic interpretation f Ais given to B.3.2 Natural Language InformationAs mentioned previously, the PBF texts do not ex-plain the PBF diagrams but describe many kindsof plants.
The explanation texts, however, includemany clues which are useful to classify the words inthe PBF diagrams into the five semantic ategories.In order to realize the semantic analysis, we uti-lize two kinds of natural anguage information fordiagram understanding.
These are:?
titles of the PBF articles.?
typical expressions which show implicitly thesemantic interpretation of words in the PBFdiagram.Titles of the PBF articles represent names of thespecies.
Typical expressions which we utilize foranalyzing the diagrams are such as:(a) A + ha + predicative noun(b) A + ga + aru (exist)(c) A + ga + verbalized noun + suru(d) ha + A (A is a predicative noun)(e) A (A is a verbalized noun) + suruwhere A is a word in the diagram, "ha" and "ga" areJapanese postpositions, and "suru" accompanies anoun and verbalizes it.
These five expression pat-terns are useful to interpret the words in the PBFdiagrams.
For example, words which represent thenames of plant parts are found in expressions (a),(b), and (c), as shown in text (S-l) --.
(S-3), butnot in expressions (d) and (e).
(S- I )  ha (leaf) ha daenkei (ellipsoidal shape)(S-2) kibu ni (at the base) ha milsusen (nectary)ga aru (exist)(S-3) rimen ni (in the back) ha myaku (vein) nisotte (along) ke (hair) ga missei (glow tightly)suruOn the contrary, words which represent the prop-erties are found in the expressions (d) and (e), asshown in texts (S-4) and (S-5), but not in expres-sions (a), (b), and (c).1376meshibe (pistil) /~  oshibeoshibe \[ ~-meshibe ~ryoseibana mebana obana( hermaphrocllte~ (#emale'~ f mill, "~1 flower / \flower J \flowerJhono (flower)Figure 6: A diagram of flowermtbene ,bemale \(hermaphr?dlte~flower , ,flower(female~fl (flower)hana (flower)Figure 7: ID number of each word and sketchin Figure 6ID NumberWord01?
Word02Word03Word04WritingCorrespondingelementWritingmeshibeoshiberyoseibanamebanaobanatype ofcorrespondencemeshibe Sketch01 connectionoshiberyoseibanaSketch01Sketch01Sketch02 meshibeconnectionadjacencyconnectionpositionbottomWord05 mebana Sketch02 adjacency bottomWord06 Sketch03Word07adjacencyadjacencyoshibeobana Sketch03above rightbottom(a) layout information of Figure 6expression pattern ITitle (a) \] (b) \[ (c) \[ (d) \[ /e )0 46 23 0 0 00 194 37 5 0 00 4 0 0 1 00 26 2 0 1 00 41 1 0 3 0(Note) expression pattern(a) A + ha + predicative noun(b) A q- ga + aru(c) A + ga -t- verbalized noun ?
suru(d) ha + A (A is a predicative noun)(e) A (A is a verbalized noun) + suru(b) natural anguage information of Figure 6Figure 8: An example of the layout and natural anguage information(S-4) kajitsu (fruit) ha kyukei (spherical shape)(S-5) kajyo (inflorescence) ha tyousei (terminal)SUr/L4 Process  o f  PBF  D iagramUnders tand ing4.1 Representat ion of Layout Informat ionLayout information is represented by hand in thefollowing way.Step 1. give ID number to all words and sketchesin the diagram.Step 2. describe the following kinds of informationfor each word in the diagram.1.
ID number2.
writing3.
ID number of the corresponding element4.
type of correspondence (connection or ad-jacency)5. relative position from the center of thecorresponding element when the type ofcorrespondence is adjacency (we use 8 di-rections for the description: top, aboveright, right, below right, bottom, belowleft, left, above left)Figure 7 shows the given ID number of each wordand sketch in Figure 6.
Figure 8 (a) represents helayout information of Figure 6.
For example, Fig-ure 8 (a) shows that "ryoseibana (hermaphroditeflower)" in Figure 6 has Word03 as the ID number,corresponds with Sketch01 (a sketch in the left ofFigure 6), and is located under Sketch01.
More-over, by checking the information on the position,words which have the same spatial relationship canbe detected.
For example, Figure 8 (a) shows thatthere are words under the left sketch, under thecentral sketch, and in the above right and underthe right sketch.
Using this information, Word03("ryoseibana"), Word05 ("mebana"), and Word071377Word01Word02Word03Word04Word05Word06Word07Figure 9:6Writingmeshibeoshiberyoseibanameshibemebanaoshibeobananame of plant parts Rule 1name of plant parts Rule 1type of plant parts Rule 5name of plant parts Rule 1type of plant parts Rule 5name of plant parts Rule 4type of plant parts Rule 5Results of the semantic analysis for Figure("obana") are detected as the words which havethe same spatial relationship with the correspond-ing sketch.4.2 Extract ion and Representat ion ofNatural  Language Informat ionNatural anguage information, which is useful to in-terpret he words in the PBF diagrams, such as,titles and expression patterns, is extracted and rep-resented in the following way:Step 1.
Extract titles from the explanation texts.Step 2.
Japanese morphological nalysis.
We usedJUMAN(Kurohashi 97) as a Japanese mor-phological analyzer.Step 3.
Extract the following expression patternsby pattern matching from the results of theJapanese morphological nalysis.
(a) A + ha + predicative noun(b) A + ga + aru (exist)(c) A + ga + verbalized noun + sum(d) ha + A (A is a predicative noun)(e) A (A is a verbalized noun) + suruwhere A is a word in a diagram.Step 4.
Describe the results of Step 1 and 3 as thenatural language information.Figure 8 (b) shows the natural language informationof Figure 6.
The number of each expression patternin Figure 8 (b) shows the frequency of it in the PBFexplanation texts.4.3 Semantic Analysis by Integrat ion ofLayout Informat ion and Natura lLanguage Informat ionIn this section, we describe the process of seman-tic analysis for the PBF diagrams by using the inte-gration of layout and natural language information.The semantic analysis is realized by applying thefollowing rules in order: (Figure 9 shows the resultsof the semantic analysis for Figure 6)Rule 1.
\[Rule for names of plant parts by usingsymbols\]A word which is connected to the other ele-ment by a symbol is interpreted as a name ofthe plant part.
For example, "meshibe" (Word01and Word04) and "oshibe" (Word02) in Figure6, each of which is connected with its corre-sponding sketch by an arrow, are interpretedas the name of the plant part by this rule.Rule 2.
\[Rule for names of plant species\]A word is interpreted as a name of the plantspecies, when it is:(a) a title of the PBF articles, or(b) written in Katakana letters 1For example, "ka~snra" and "natsumikaa" inFigure 4 are interpreted as the name of thespecies by this rule.
It should be noted that"katsura", that is a wild kind, is one in thetitles of the PBF articles.
On the contrary,"natsumikan", that is a cultivated kind, is nota title in the PBF.
It is because the subjectof the PBF which we used is wild flowers inJapan.
As a result of this, "katsura" and "nat-sumikan" are interpreted by the condition above(a) and (b) in this rule, respectively.Rule 3.
\[Rule for properties of plant parts\]A word in a diagram is interpreted as a prop-erty of the plant part when it is found in theexpression pattern (d) and (e) described inSection 3.2, such as:(d) ha + A (A is a predicative noun)(e) A (A is a verbalized noun) + suruand never found in the rest of the expressionpatterns in Section 3.2.
For example, "daenkei(ellipsoidal shape)", "hishinkei (lanceolate shape)",and "shinkei (cordate shape)" in Figure 3 areinterpreted as the properties of the plant partby this rule.Rule 4.
\[Rule for names of plant parts by using theexpression patterns\]A word in a diagram is interpreted as a nameof the plant part when it is found in the ex-pression patterns (a), (b), and (c) described inSection 3.2, such as:(a) A + ha + predicative noun(b) A + ga + aru (exist)(c) A + ga + verbalized noun + sumand never found in the rest of expression pat-terns in Section 3.2.
For example, "oshibe"(Word06) in Figure 6 is interpreted asthe nameof the plant part by this rule.1In Japanese PBF, names of species are generallywritten in Katakana letters.
For example, "katsura"and "natsurnikan" in Figure 4 are written in Katakanaletters.1378Relationconnectionadjacencyname ofa plant partsuccess failure74 01 7Table 1: Results of the semantic analysisproperty of type of name ofa plant part a plant part speciessuccess failure success failure success failure112 0 33 5 23 1additionalexplanationsuccess failure3 o .jRule 5.
\[Rule for types of plant parts\]Words in a diagram are interpreted asthe typesof the plant part when the following conditionsare satisfied.1.
Each sketch is related to one of thesewords.2.
These words have the same spatial rela-tionship with the corresponding sketch.3.
These words have the same Kanji char-acter at the end of the writing.4.
Some of these words are found in theexpression pattern (a), (b), and (c) de-scribed in Section 3.2:(a) A + ha + predicative noun(b) A + ga + aru (exist)(c) A + ga + verbalized noun + suruFor example, "ryoseibana (hermaphrodite flower)""mebana (female flower)", and "obana (maleflower)" in Figure 6 are interpreted asthe typesof the plant part by this rule.Rule  6.
\[Propagation f semantic interpretation\]A word which cannot be interpreted by therules 1-5 is given the same semantic informa-tion as the word which has the same spatialrelationship.
The way of detecting the wordswhich have the same spatial relationship isde-scribed in Section 4.1.Rule 7.
\[Rule for additional explanation\]An additional explanation generally includes?
postposition?
adjective?
verb?
adverbTaking advantage ofthis, words are interpretedas an additional explanation when the result oftheir Japanese morphological nalysis includesthe above types of a part-of-speec h. For ex-ample, "shinpi no chnou ga sakeru (carpel splitsopen in its center)" in Figure 5 is interpretedas an additional explanation by this rule.5 Exper imenta l  Resu l tsTo evaluate our approach, we used 31 PBF dia-grams in an experiment.
These 31 diagrams in-cluded 175 sketches and 259 words.
Table 1 showstantaioshibe nitaioshibe( monadelphous ~ ('dlaaelphous ~ stamens / \ stamens /nikyooshibe tataioshibe( dldynamous~ (polyadelphous stamens \] \ stamens \]oshibe (stamen)(a) A diagram of stamensyuyakuoshibe( syngeneslous ~ stamens Jshiyuzakkyosei (polygamous)(b) A diagram of polygamousFigure 10: Examples of incorrect analysisryoseibana ryoseibanamebanathe results of the semantic analysis of these dia-grams.Figure 10 gives two examples of the failures inthis experiment.
The words in Figure 10 (a) repre-sent the types of "oshibe (stamen)", and could notbe interpreted by our approach.
This is becausethese words, such as "nitaioshibe (diadelphous sta-mens)", are rarely used in the PBF texts, and couldnot be found in five kinds of expression patternsin Section 3.2.
The words in Figure 10 (b), "ryo-seibana (hermaphrodite flower)", "mebana (femaleflower)", and "obana (male flower)" represent thenames of the plant part.
But these words could1379not be interpreted by the rule 4 in our method be-cause these words are found in the expressions, suchas:(S-6) daibubun (most of the flower) ha ryoseibana(hermaphrodite flower)(8-7) chuou no lkko (a flower in the center) hamebana (female flower)(8-8) sokuhou no 2ko (two flowers in the corner)ha obana (male flower)6 Conc lus ionAt the moment, the pattern (layout) informationis extracted and represented by hand.
To realizean automatic extraction and representation f thepattern (layout) information, we have to investigatethe following methods:?
a method for extracting the diagram elements?
a method for detecting the corresponding re-lations between the diagram elementsFortunately, a large amount of diagrams is createdand stored on computers.
Taking advantage ofthis,we may avoid the difficulties in extracting the dia-gram elements by image processing.
For this rea-son, we would like to investigate the method fordetecting the spatial relationship between the dia-gram elements.Re ferencesFeiner, McKeown: Automating the Generation of Coor-dinated Multimedia Explanations, IEEE Computer,Voi.24 No.10, (1991).Futrelle: Strategies for diagram understanding: Gener-alized equivalence, spatial/object pyramids and ani-mate vision, Proc.
10th ICPR, (1990)Kurohashi, Nagao: JUMAN Manual version 3.4 (in Japanese),Nagao Lab., Kyoto University, (1997) ~Nagao: Methods of Image Pattern Recognition (in Japanese),CORONA, (1983).Nakamura, Furukawa, Nagao: Diagram UnderstandingUtilizing Natural Language Text, 2nd InternationalConference on Document Analysis and Recognition,(1993).Plant, Scrievner, Schappo, Woodcock: Usage and gen-erality of knowledge in the interpretation f diagrams,Knowledge-Based Systems, Vol.2 No.2, (1989).2The source file and the explanation (in Japanese)of Japanese morphological analyzer JUMAN can be ob-tained using anonymous FTP fromftp : I/pine.
kuee.
kyoto-u, ac.
jplpub/juman/juman3.4, tar.
gz1380
