Unlimited Vocabulary Grapheme to Phoneme Conversion forKorean TTSByeongchang Kim and WonI1 Lee and Geunbae Lee and Jong-Hyeok  LeeDepartment of Computer Science & EngineeringPohang University of Science & TechnologyPohang, Korea{bckim, bdragon, gblee, jhlee)@postech.ac.krAbst ractThis paper describes a grapheme-to-phonemeconversion method using phoneme connectivityand CCV conversion rules.
The methodconsists of mainly four modules includingmorpheme normalization, phrase-break detec-tion, morpheme to phoneme conversion andphoneme connectivity check.The morpheme normalization is to replacenon-Korean symbols into standard Koreangraphemes.
The phrase-break detector assignsphrase breaks using part-of-speech (POS)information.
In the morpheme-to-phonemeconversion module, each morpheme in thephrase is converted into phonetic patternsby looking up the morpheme phonetic pat-tern dictionary which contains candidatephonological changes in boundaries of themorphemes.
Graphemes within a morphemeare grouped into CCV patterns and convertedinto phonemes by the CCV conversion rules.The phoneme connectivity table supportsgrammaticality checking of the adjacent wophonetic morphemes.In the experiments with a corpus of 4,973sentences, we achieved 99.9% of the grapheme-to-phoneme conversion performance and 97.5%of the sentence conversion performance.
Thefull Korean TTS system is now being imple-mented using this conversion method.1 IntroductionDuring the past few years, remarkable improve-ments have been made for high-quality text-to-speech systems (van Santen et al, 1997).One of the enduring problems in developinghigh-quality text-to-speech system is accurategrapheme-to-phoneme conversion (Divay andVitale, 1997).
It can be described as a functionmapping the spelling of words to their phoneticsymbols.
Nevertheless, the function in some al-phabetic languages needs ome linguistic knowl-edge, especially morphological nd phonologi-cal, but often also semantic knowledge.In this paper, we present a new grapheme-to-phoneme conversion method for unlimited vo-cabulary Korean TTS.
The conversion methodis divided into mainly four modules.
Each mod-ule has its own linguistic knowledge.
Phrase-break detection module assigns phrase breaksonto part-of-speech sequences using morpho-logical knowledge.
Word-boundaries beforeand after phrase breaks should not be co-articulated.
So, accurate phrase-break ssign-ments are essential in high quality TTS sys-tems.
In the morpheme-to-phoneme conver-sion module, boundary graphemes ofeach mor-pheme in the phrase are converted to phonemesby applying phonetic patterns which containpossible phonological changes in the boundariesof morphemes.
The patterns are designed us-ing morphological nd phonotactic knowledge.Graphemes within a morpheme are convertedinto phonemes by CCV (consonant consonantvowel) conversion rules which are automaticallyextracted from a corpus.
After all the conver-sions, phoneme connectivity able supports thegrammaticality of the adjacency of two phoneticmorphemes.
This grammaticality comes fromKorean phonology rules.This paper is organized as follows.
Section 2briefly explains the characteristics of spoken Ko-rean for general readers.
Section 3 and 4 in-troduces our grapheme-to-phoneme conversionmethod based on morphological nd phonolog-ical knowledge of Korean.
Section 5 showsexperiment results to demonstrate he perfor-mance and Section 6 draws some conclusions.6752 Features of Spoken KoreanThis section briefly explains the linguistic har-acteristics of spoken Korean before describingthe architecture.A Korean word (called eojeol) consists of morethan one morpheme with clear-cut morphemeboundaries (Korean is an agglutinative lan-guage).
Korean is a postpositional languagewith many kinds of noun-endings, verb-endings,and prefinal verb-endings.
These functionalmorphemes determine the noun's case roles,verb's aspect/tenses, modals, and modificationrelations between words.
The unit of pause inspeech (phrase break) is usually different fromthat in written text.
No phonological changeoccur between these phrase breaks.
Phonologi-cal changes can occur in a morpheme, betweenmorphemes in a word, and even between wordsin a phrase break as described in the 30 generalphonological rules for Korean(Korean Ministryof Education, 1995).
These changes include con-sonant and vowel assimilation, dissimilation, in-sertion, deletion, and contraction.
For exam-ple, noun "kag-ryo" pronounced as "kangnyo"(meaning "cabinet") is an example of phono-logical change within a morpheme.
Nounplus noun-ending "such+gwa", in which "such"means "charcoal" and "gwa" means "and" inEnglish, is sounded as "sudggwa", which isan example of the inter-morpheme phonologi-cal change.
"Ta-seos gae", which means "fiveitems", is sounded as "taseot ggae", in whichphonological changes occur between words.
Inaddition, phonological changes can occur condi-tionally on the morphotactic environments butalso on phonotactic environments.3 Arch i tec ture  of theGrapheme- to -Phoneme Conver terPart-of-speech (POS) tagging is a basic stepto the grapheme-to-phoneme conversion sincephonological changes depend on morphotacticand phonotactic environments.
The POS tag-ging system have to handle out-of-vocabulary(OOV) words for accurate grapheme-to-phoneme conversion of unlimited vocabulary(Bechet and E1-Beze, 1997).
Figure 1 showsthe architecture of our grapheme-to-phonemeconverter integrated with the hybrid POStagging system (Lee et al, 1997).
The hybridPOS tagging system employs generalized OOVword handling mechanisms in the morpho-logical analysis, and cascades tatistical andrule-based approaches in the two-phase trainingarchitecture for POS disambiguation.table J I connectivity checker"reefing|Figure 1: Architecture of the grapheme-to-phoneme converter in TTS applicationsEach morpheme tagged by the POS taggeris normalized by replacing non-Korean symbolsby Korean graphemes to expand numbers, ab-breviations, and acronyms.
The phrase-breakdetector segments he POS sequences into sev-eral phrases according to phrase-break detec-tion rules.
In the phoneme converter, each mor-pheme in the phrase is converted into phonemesequences by consulting the morpheme pho-netic dictionary.
The OOV morphemes whichare not registered in the morpheme phoneticdictionary should be processed in two differ-ent ways.
The graphemes in the morphemeboundary are converted into phonemes by con-sulting the morpheme phonetic pattern dictio-nary.
The graphemes within morphemes areconverted into phonemes according to CCV con-version rules.
To model phoneme's connectabli-ties between morpheme boundaries, the sepa-rate phoneme connectivity table encodes thephonological changes between the morphemewith their POS tags.
Outputs of the grapheme-to-phoneme converter, that is, phoneme se-676quences of the input sentence, can be directlyfed to the lower level signal processing moduleof TTS systems.
Next section will give detail de-scriptions of each component of the grapheme-to-phoneme converter.
The hybrid POS taggingsystem will not be explained in this paper, andinterested readers can see the reference (Lee etal., 1997).4 Component  Descr ip t ions  of  theConver ter4.1 Morpheme Normal izat ionThe normalization replaces non-Korean sym-bols by corresponding Korean graphemes.
Non-Korean symbols include numbers (e.g.
54, -12, 5,400, 4.2), dates (e.g.
20/1/97, 20-Jan-97), times (e.g.
12:46), scores (e.g.
74:64),mathematical expressions (e.g.
4+5, 1/3), tele-phone numbers, abbreviations (e.g.
km, ha) andacronyms (e.g.
UNESCO, OECD).
Especially,acronyms have two types: spelled acronymssuch as OECD and pronounced ones like a wordsuch as UNESCO.The numbers are converted into the correspond-ing Korean graphemes using deterministic fi-nite automata.
The dates, times, scores, ex-pressions and telephone numbers are convertedinto equivalent graphemes using their formatsand values.
The abbreviations and acronymsare enrolled in the morpheme phonetic dictio-nary, and converted into the phonemes usingthe morpheme-to-phoneme conversion module.4.2 Phrase-Break Detect ionPhrase-break boundaries are important tothe subsequent processing such as morpheme-to-phoneme conversion and prosodic featuregeneration.
Graphemes in phrase-breakboundaries are not phonologically changedand sounded as their original correspondingphonemes in Korean.A number of different algorithms have beensuggested and implemented for phrase breakdetection (Black and Taylor, 1997).
Thesimplest algorithm uses deterministic rules andmore complicated algorithms can use syntacticknowledge and even semantic knowledge.
Wedesigned simple rules using break and POStagged corpus.
We found that, in Korean, theaverage length of phrases is 5.6 words and over90% of breaks are after 6 different POS tags:conjunctive ending, auxiliary particle, caseparticle, other particle, adverb and adnominalending.
The phrase-break detector assignsbreaks after these 6 POS tags considering thelength of phrases.4.3 Morpheme- to -Phoneme ConversionThe morphemes registered in the morphemephonetic dictionary can be directly convertedinto phonemes by consulting the dictionary en-tries.
However, separate method to process theOOV morphemes which are not registered in thedictionary is necessary.
We developed a newmethod as shown Figure 2.Applydirect morpheme-to-phoneme conversionand phonological connectivity assignmentMorpheme t~muee~dictionaryConvert graphemes in morpheme boundariesand assign phonological connectivityMoq~eme phoneaedictionaryIll I l lConvert graphemeswithin morphemes CCV conversion rule 1 ,iFigure 2: Morpheme-to-phoneme conversion forunlimited vocabulariesThe morpheme phonetic dictionary containsPOS tag, morpheme, phoneme connectivity(left and right) and phoneme sequence for eachentry.
We try to register minimum numberof morpheme in the dictionary.
So it containsonly the morphemes which are difficult to pro-cess using the next OOV morpheme conversionmodules.
Table 1 shows example entries forthe common oun "pang-gabs", meaning "priceof a room" in hotel reservation dialogs.
Thecommon oun "pang-gabs" can be pronouncedas "pang-ggam", pang-ggab" or "pang-ggabss"according to first phoneme of the adjacent mor-phemes.To handle the OOV morphemes, morphemephonetic pattern dictionary is developed to con-tain all the general patterns of Korean POStags, morphemes, phoneme connectivity andphoneme sequences.
Boundary phonemes ofthe OOV morphemes can be converted to theircandidate phonemes, and the phonological con-nectivity for them can be acquired by consult-ing this morpheme phonetic pattern dictionary.677Table 1: Example entries of the morpheme phonetic dictionaryPOS tag morpheme phoneme sequence left connectivity right connectivitycommon oun pang-gabs pang-ggam 'p' no change 'bs' changed to 'm'common noun pang-gabs pang-ggab 'p' no change 'bs' changed to 'b'common oun pang-gabs pang-ggabss 'p' no change 'bs' changed to 'bss'Table 2: Example entries of morpheme phonetic pattern dictionaryPOS tag morpheme phoneme sequence left connectivity right connectivityt ,d  t t ,n  irregular verbirregular verbirregular verbirregular verbt ,ZY,dY,Ztt,ZY,nY,Z't' changed to 'tt''t' changed to 'tt'no changeno change'd' changed to 'n'no change'd' changed to 'n'no changeExample entries corresponding to the irregularverb "teud", meaning "hear", are shown in Ta-ble 2.
Meta characters, 'Z', 'Y', 'V', '*' desig-nate single consonant, consonant except silencephoneme, vowel, any character sequence withvariable length in the order.
The table showsthat the first grapheme 't' can be phonologicallychanged to 'tt' according to the last phonemeof the preceding morpheme (left connectivity),and the last grapheme 'd' can be phonologicallychanged to 'n' according to the first phonemeof the following morpheme(right connectivity).The morpheme phonetic pattern dictionary con-tains similar 1,992 entries to model the generalphonological rules for Korean.The graphemes within a morpheme for OOVmorphemes are converted into phonemes usingthe CCV conversion rules.
The CCV conversionrules are the mapping rules between graphemeto phoneme in character tri-gram forms whichare in the order of consonant(C) consonant(C)vowel(V) spanning two consecutive syllables.The CCV rules are designed and automaticallylearned from a corpus reflecting the followingKorean phonological facts.?
Korean is a syllable-base language, i.e.,Korean syllable is the basic unit of thegraphemes and consists of first consonant,vowel and final consonant (CVC).?
The number of possible consonants foreach syllable can be varied in grapheme-to-phoneme conversion.?
The number of vowels for each syllable isnot changed.?
Phonological changes of the first consonantare only affected by the final consonantof the preceding syllable and the followingvowel of the same syllable.?
Phonological changes of the final consonantare only affected by the first consonant ofthe following syllable.?
Phonological changes of the vowel are notaffected by the following consonant.The boundary graphemes of the OOV mor-phemes are phonologically changed accordingto the POS tag and the boundary graphemesof the preceding and following morphemes.
Onthe other hand, the inner grapheme conversionis not affected by the POS tag, but only bythe adjacent graphemes within the same mor-pheme.
The CCV conversion rules can modelthe fact easily, but the conventional CC conver-sion rules (Park and Kwon, 1995) cannot modelthe influence of the vowels.4.4 Phoneme Connect iv i ty  CheckTo verify the boundary phonemes' con-nectablity to one another, the separate phonemeconnectivity table encodes the phonologicallyconnectable pair of each morpheme which hasphonologically changed boundary graphemes.This phoneme connectivity table indicates thegrammatical sound combinations in Korean678phonology using the defined left and right con-nectivity information.The morpheme-to-phoneme conversion can gen-erate a lot of phoneme sequence candidates forsingle morpheme.
We put the whole phonemesequence candidates in a phoneme graph wherea correct phoneme sequence path can be se-lected for input sentence.
The phoneme connec-tivity check performs this selection and prunesthe ungrammatical phoneme sequences in thegraph.5 Imp lementat ion  and Exper imentResul tsWe implemented simple phrase-break detectionrules from break and POS tagged corpus col-lected from recording and transcribing broad-casting news.
The rules reflect he fact that av-erage length of phrases in Korean is 5.6 wordsand over 90% of breaks are after 6 specific POStags, described in the texts.We constructed a 1,992 entry morpheme pho-netic pattern dictionary for OOV morphemeprocessing using standard Korean phonologicalrules.
The morpheme phonetic dictionary wasconstructed for only the morphemes that aredifficult to handle with these standard rules.The two dictionaries are indexed using POStag and morpheme pattern for fast access.
Tomodel the boundary phonemes' connectablityto one another, the phoneme connectivity ableencodes 626 pair of phonologically connectablemorphemes.The 2030 entry rule set for CCV conversion wasautomatically earned from phonetically tran-scribed 9,773 sentences.
The independent pho-netically transcribed 4,973 sentences are usedto test the performance of the grapheme-to-phoneme conversion.
Of the 4,973 sentences,only 2.5% are incorrectly processed (120 sen-tences out of 4,973), and only 0.1% of thegraphemes in the sentences are actually incor-rectly converted.6 ConclusionsThis paper presents a new grapheme-to-phoneme conversion method using phonemeconnectivity and CCV conversion rules for un-limited vocabulary Korean TTS.
For the effi-cient conversion, new ideas of morpheme pho-netic and morpheme phonetic pattern dictio-nary are invented and the system demon-strates remarkable conversion performance forthe unlimited vocabulary texts.
Our main con-tributions include presenting the morpholog-ically and phonologically conditioned conver-sion model which is essential for morpholog-ically and phonologically complex agglutina-tive languages.
The other contribution is thegrapheme-to-phoneme conversion model com-bined with the declarative phonological rulewhich is well suited to the given task.
Wealso designed new CCV unit of grapheme-to-phoneme conversion for unlimited vocabularytask.
The experiments show that grapheme-to-phoneme conversion performance is 97.5%in sentence conversion, and 99.9% in eachgrapheme conversion.
We are now working onincorporating this grapheme-to-phoneme con-version into the developing TTS systems.ReferencesF.
Bechet and M. E1-Beze.
1997.
Auto-matic assignment ofpart-of-speech to out-of-vocabulary words for text-to-speech process-ing.
In Proceedings of the EUROSPEECH'97, pages 983-986.Alan W. Black and Paul Taylor.
1997.
As-signing phrase breaks from part-of-speechsequences.
In Proceedings of the EU-ROSPEECH '97, pages 995-998.Michel Divay and Anthony J. Vitale.
1997.
Al-gorithms for grapheme-phoneme translationfor English and French: Applications.
Com-putational Linguistics, 23(4).Korean Ministry of Education.
1995.
KoreanRule Collections.
Taehan Publishers.
(in Ko-rean).Geunbae Lee, Jeongwon Cha, and Jong-HyeokLee.
1997.
Hybrid POS tagging with general-ized unknown-word handling.
In Proceedingsof the IRAL '97, pages 43-50.S.H.
Park and H.C. Kwon.
1995.
Implementa-tion to phonological teration module for aKorean text-to-speech.
In Proceedigns of the~th conference on Korean and Korean infor-mation processing.
(in Korean).Jan P.H.
van Santen, Richard W. Sproat,Joseph P. Olive, and Julia Hirschberg.1997.
Progress in Speech Synthesis.
Springer-Verlag.679
