Terminology Finite-State Preprocessing for Computational LFGCaroline BrunXerox Research Centre Europe6, chemin de Maupertuis 38240 Meylan FranceCaroline.
Brun @zrce.ze roz.
cornAbst ractThis paper presents a technique to deal withmultiword nominal terminology in a compu-tational Lexical Functional Grammar.
Thismethod treats multiword terms as single to-kens by modifying the preprocessing stage of thegrammar (tokenization and morphological nal-ysis), which consists of a cascade of two-levelfinite-state automata (transducers).
We presenthere how we build the transducers to take ter-minology into account.
We tested the methodby parsing a small corpus with and without histreatment of multiword terms.
The number ofparses and parsing time decrease without affect-ing the relevance of the results.
Moreover, themethod improves the perspicuity of the analy-ses.1 In t roduct ionThe general issue we are dealing with here isto determine whether there is an advantage totreating multiword expressions as single tokens,by recognizing them before parsing.
Possibleadvantages are the reduction of ambiguity inthe parse results, perspicuity in the structureof analyses, and reduction in parsing time.
Thepossible disadvantage is the loss of valid analy-ses.
There is probably no single answer to thisissue, as there are many different kinds of mul-tiword expressions.
This work follows the inte-gration 1of (French) fixed multiword expressionslike a priori, and time expressions, like le 12jan-vier 1988, in the preprocessing stage.Terminology is an interesting kind of multiwordexpressions because such expressions are almostbut not completely fixed, and there is an in-tuition that you won't loose many good anal-~This integration has been done by Fr6d~riqueSegond.yses by treating them as single tokens.
More-over, terminology can be semi or fully automat-ically extracted.
Our goal in the present paperis to compare fficiency and syntactic overageof a French LFG grammar on a technical text,with and without erminology recognition i  thepreprocessing stage.
The preprocessing consistsmainly in two stages: tokenization and morpho-logical analysis.
Both stages are performed byuse of finite-state lexical transducers (Kartun-nen, 1994).
In the following, we describe the in-sertion of terminology in these finite-state trans-ducers, as well as the consequences of such aninsertion on the syntactic analysis, in terms ofnumber of valid analyses produced, parsing timeand nature of the results.
We are part of aproject, which aims at developing LFG gram-mars, (Bresnan and Kaplan, 1982), in paral-lel for French, English and German, (Butt etal., To appear).
The grammar is developed ina computational environment called XLE (Xe-rox Linguistic Environment), (Maxwell and Ka-plan, 1996), which provides automatic parsingand generation, as well as an interface to thepreprocessing tools we are describing.2 Terminology ExtractionThe first stage of this work was to extract ermi-nology from our corpus.
This corpus is a smallFrench technical text of 742 sentences (7000words).
As we have at our disposal parallelaligned English/French texts, we use the Englishtranslation to decide when a potential term isactually a term.
The terminology we are deal-ing with is mainly nominal.
To perform thisextraction task, we use a tagger (Chanod andTapanainen, 1995) to disambiguate the Frenchtext, and then extract the following syntacticpatterns, N Prep N, N N, N A, A N, which aregood candidates to be terms.
These candidates196are considered as terms when the correspond-ing English translation is a unit, or when theirtranslation differs from a word to word trans-lation.
For example, we extract the followingterms:(1) vitesses rampantes (creepers)boite de vitesse (gearbox)arbre de transmission (drive shaft)tableau de bord (instrument panel)This simple method allowed us to extract a setof 210 terms which are then integrated in thepreprocessing stages of the parser, as we are go-ing to explain in the following sections.We are aware that this semi-automatic processworks because of the small size of our corpus.A fully automatic method (Jacquemin, 1997)could be used to extract terminology.
But thematerial extracted was sufficient o perform theexperiment of comparison we had in mind.3 Grammar  Preprocess ingIn this section, we present how tokenization andmorphological nalysis are handled in the sys-tem and then how we integrate terminology pro-cessing in these two stages.3.1 Tokenizat ionThe tokenization process consists of splittingan input string into tokens, (Grefenstette andTapanainen, 1994), (Ait-Mokthar, 1997), i.e.determining the word boundaries.
If there isone and only one output string the tokenizationis said to be deterministic, if there is more thanone output string, the tokenization is non deter-ministic.
The tokenizer of our application is nondeterministic (Chanod and Tapanainen, 1996),which is valuable for the treatment of some am-biguous input string 2, but in this paper we dealwith fixed multiword expressions.The tokenization is performed by applying atwo-level finite-state transducer on the inputstring.
For example, applying this transduceron the sentence in 2 gives the following result,the token boundary being the @ sign.
(2) Le tracteur est ~ l'arr~t.
(The tractor is stationary.)Le@tracteur@est@~@l'@arr~t@.
@2for example bien que in FrenchIn this particular case, each word is a token.But several words can be a unit, for exam-ple compounds, or multiword expressions.
Hereare some examples of the desired tokenization,where terms are treated as units:(3) La bore de vitesse st en deux sections.
(the gearbox is in two sections)La'.~boRe de vitesse~est~en~deux@sections~.~(4) Ce levier engage l'arbre de transmission.
(This lever engages the drive shaft.
)Ce@levier~engage@l'~arbre de transmission@.
@We need such an analysis for the terminologyextracted from the text.
This tokenization isrealized in two logical steps.
The first step isperformed by the basic transducer and splits thesentence in a sequence of single word.
Then asecond transducer containing a list of multiwordexpressions i applied.
It recognizes these ex-pressions and marks them as units.
When morethan one expression in the list matches the in-put, the longest matching expression is marked.We have included all the terms and their mor-phological variations in this last transducer, sothat they are analyzed as single tokens later onin the process.
The problem now is to associatea morphological nalysis to these units.3.2 Morphological AnalysisThe morphological analyzer used during theparsing process, just after the tokenizationprocess, is a two-level finite-state transducer(Chanod, 1994).
This lexical transducer linksthe surface form of a string to its morphologicalanalysis, i.e.
its canonical form and some char-acterizing morphological tags.
Some examplesare given in 5.
(5) >veutvouloir+IndP+SG+P3+Verb>animauxanimal+Masc+PL+Nounanimal+Masc+PL+AdjThe compound terms have to be integrated intothis transducer.
This is done by developing alocal regular grammar which describes the com-pound morphological variation, according to theinflectional model proposed in (Kartunnen etal., 1992).The hypothesis i that only the two main parts197of the compounds are able to vary.
i.e.
N1 orA1, and N2 or A2.
in the patterns .VI prep N2,N1 N2, A1 N2, and ,VI A2.
In our corpus, weidentify two kinds of morphological variations:?
The first part varies in number :gyrophare de toit.
gyrophares de toitrdgime moteur, rggirnes moteur?
Both  parts vary in number :roue motrice, roues motricesThis is of course not general for French com-pounds; there are other variation patterns, how-ever it is reliable enough for the technical man-ual we are dealing with.
Other inflectionalschemes and exceptions are described in (Kar-tunnen et al, 1992) and (Quint, 1997), andcan be easily added to the regular grammar ifneeded.A cascade of regular rules is applied on the dif-ferent parts of the compound to build the mor-phological analyzer of the whole compound.
Forexample, roue rnotrice is marked with the dia-critic +DPL, for double plural and then, a firstrule which just copies the morphological tagsfrom the end to the middle is applied if the di-acritic is present in the right context:roue 0 0 -motrice+DPL+Fem+PLroue+Fem+PL-mortice 0 +Fem+PLFigure l: First ruleA second rule is applied to the output of thepreceding one and "realizes" the tags on surface.roue +Fem+PL-motrice +Fern +PL I I I I I Iroue 0 s -motrice 0 sFigure 2: Second ruleThe composition of these two layers gives us thedirect mapping between surface inflected formsand morphological nalysis.
The same kind ofrules are used when only the first part of thecompound varies, but in this case the secondrule just deletes the tags of the second word.The two morphological analyzers for the twovariations are both unioned into the basic mor-phological analyzer for French we use for mor-phology.
The result is the transducer we use fol-lowing tokenization and completing input pre-processing.
An example of compound analysisis given here:(6) > roues motricesroue motrice+Fem+PL+Noun> r~gimes moteurr~gime moteur+Masc+PL+NounThe morphological nalysis developed here forterminology allows multiword terms to betreated as regular nouns within the parsing pro-cess.
Constraints on agreement remain valid, forexample for relative or adjectival attachment.4 Pars ing  w i th  the  GrammarOne of the problems one encounters with pars-ing using a high level grammar is the multi-plicity of (valid) analyses one gets as a result.While syntactically correct, some of these anal-yses should be removed for semantic reasons orin a particular context.
One of the challengesis to reduce the parse number, without affectingthe relevance of the results and without remov-ing the desired parses.
There are several ways toperform such a task, as described for example in(Segond and Copperman, 1997); we show herethat finite state preprocessing for compounds icompatible with other possibilities.4.1 Experiment and ResultsThe experiment reported here is very simple: itconsists of parsing the technical corpus beforeand after integration of the morphological termsin the preprocessing components, using exactlythe same grammar ules, and comparing the re-sults obtained.
As the compounds are mainlynominal, they will be analyzed just as regularnouns by the grammar rules.
For example, if weparse the NP:(7) La bofte de vitesse (the gearbox)before integration we get the structures hownin Fig.3, and after integration we get the simplestructures shown in Fig.4.
The following tablesshow the results obtained on the whole corpus:198DETP IDI laNPtNPdetNPppNPap PPN P NPI I Ibohe de NPdctINPppINPapINtvitesse"PRED 'boRe'SPEC \[ SPEC-FORM PRED ' de< (t OBJ)>''vitesse'\]oaJ | sPeC nul l  IAD'IUNCT IPCASE de  \[t, P,+...~ :+ J\[.
PSEM IOC PTYPE semPERS 3 GEND fem NUM sg}Figure 3: Before Terminology IntegrationNPiNPdetDETP  NPdett ID NPppI ila NPapINIbolte de vitessePHED ' bo t te  de  v i tesse '  \]/sPEc LS~c-Po~ d:LPBRS 3 GEND fem NUM sgFigure 4: After Terminology Integration?
Before Terminology Integration:Number of Token Parse Timesentences Average average Averagewith terms 358 10.59 4.21 1.706without erms 384 8.98 3.77 1.025?
After Terminology Integration:Number of Token Parse Timesentences average average Averagewith terms 358 8.86 2.79 0.987without erms 384 8.98 3.77 1.025The results are straightforward: one ob-serves a significant reduction in the number ofparses as well as in the parsing time, and nochange at all for sentences which do not containtechnical terms.
Looking closer at the resultsshows that the parses ruled out by this methodare semantically undesirable.
We discuss theseresults in the next section.4.2 Analysis of ResultsThe good results we obtained in terms of parsenumber and parsing time reduction were pre-dictable.
As the nominal terminology groupsflouns, prepositional phrases and adjectival /phrases together in lexical units, there is a sig-nificant reduction of the number of attachments.For example, the adjective hydraulique in thesentence:(8) Le voyant de levier de distributeur hydrau-lique s'allume.
(The control valve leverwarning light comes on.
)can syntactically attach to voyant, levier, anddistributeur which leads to 3 analyses.
But inthe domain the corpus is concerned with, dis-tributeur hydraulique is a term.
Parsing it as anominal unit gives only one parse, which is thedesired one.
Moreover, grouping terms in unitresolves ome lexical ambiguity in the prepro-cessing stage: for example, in ceinture de sdcu-rit4, the word ceinture is a noun but may be averb in other contexts.
Parsing ceinture de sdcu-rite" as a nominal term avoids further syntacticdisambiguation.Of course, one has to be very careful with theterminology integration in order to prevent aloss of valid analyses.
In this experiment, novalid analyses were ruled out, because the semi-automatic method we used for extraction andintegration allowed us to choose accurate terms.The reduction in the number of attachments isthe main source of the decrease in the numberof parses.As the number of attachments and of lexicalambiguities decreases, the number of grammarrules applied to compute the results decreases199as well.
The parsing time is reduced as a conse-quence.The gain of efficiency is interesting in this ap-proach, but perhaps more valuable is the per-spicuity of the results.
For example, in a trans-lation application it is clear that the represen-tation given in Fig.
4, is more relevant and di-rectly exploitable than the one given in Fig.
3,because in this case there is a direct mappingbetween the semantic predicate in French andEnglish.5 Conc lus ion  and  poss ib le  extens ionsThe experiment presented in this paper showsthe advantage of treating terms as single to-kens in the preprocessing stage of a parser.
Itis an example of interaction between low levelfinite-state tools and higher level grammars.
Itsshows the benefit from such' a cooperation forthe treatment of terminology and its implica-tion on the syntactic parse results.
One canimagine other interactions, for example, to usea "guesser ''3 transducer which can easily pro-cess unknown words, and give them plausiblemophological nalyses according to rules aboutproductive ndings.There are ambiguity sources other than termi-nology, but this method of ambiguity reductionis compatible with others, and improves the per-spicuity of the results.
It has been shown tobe valuable for other syntactic phenomena liketime expressions, where local regular rules cancompute the morphological variation of such ex-pressions.
In general, lexicalization of (fixed)multiword expressions, like complex prepositionor adverbial phrases, compounds , dates, numer-als, etc., is valuable for parsing because it avoidscreation of "had hoc" and unproductive syntac-tic rules like ADV ..~ N Coord N to parse corps etrime {body and soul), and unusual lexicon entrieslike fur to get au fur et d mesure (as one goesalong).
Ambiguity reduction and better rele-vance of results are direct consequences of sucha treatment.This experiment, which has been conducted ona small corpus containing few terms, will be ex-tended with an automatic extraction and inte-gration process on larger scale corpora nd otherlanguages.ZAlready used in tagging applications6 AcknowledgmentsI would like to thanks my colleagues at XRCE,especially Max Copperman and Fr~d~riqueSegond for their help and valuable comments.Re ferencesSalah Ait-Mokthar.
1997.
Du texte ascii au textelemmatis6 : la pr6syntaxe n une seule 6tape.
InProceedings TALN97, Grenoble, France.Joan Bresnan and Ronald M. Kaplan.
1982.
TheMental Representation of Grammatical Relations.The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Miriam Butt, Tracy Holloway King, Maria-EugeniaNifio, and Fr~d~rique Segond.
To appear.
A Gram-mar Writer's Cookbook.
CSLI Publications/Univer-sity of Chicago Press, Stanford University.Jean-Pierre Chanod and Pasi Tapanainen.
1995.Tagging French - comparing a statistical and aconstraint-based method.
In Proceedings of the Sev-enth Conference of the European Chapter, pages149-156, Dublin.
Association for ComputationalLinguistic.Jean-Pierre Chanod and Pasi Tapanainen.
1996.
Anon-deterministic tokeniser for finite-state parsing.In Proceedings ECAI96, Prague, Czech Republic.Jean-Pierre Chanod.
1994.
Finite-state composi-tion of French verb morphology.
Technical ReportMLTT-0O4, Rank Xerox Research Centre, Grenoble.Gregory Grefenstette and Pasi Tapanainen.
1994.What is a word, what is a sentence?
problems oftokenisation.
In Proceedings of the Third Interna-tional Conference on Computational Lexicography,pages 79-87, Budapest.
Research Institute for Lin-guistic Hungarian Academy of Sciences.Christian Jacquemin.
1997.
Variation termi-nologique : Reconnaissance et acquistion automa-tique de termes et de leur variante n corpus.
Ha-bilitation b. diriger les recherches.Lauri Kartunnen, Ronald M. Kaplan, and Annie Za-enen.
1992.
Two-level morphology with composi-tion.
In Proceedings of the 17h International Confer-ence on Computational Linguistics (COLING '92},August.Lauri Kartunnen.
1994.
Constructing lexical trans-ducers.
In Proceedings oj: the Igh InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics (COLING'94), August.John T. Maxwell and Ron Kaplan.
1996.
An ef-ficient parser for LFG.
In Proceedings of LFG96,Grenoble, France.Julien Quint.
1997.
Morphologie h deux niveaux desnoms du franqais.
Master thesis, Xerox EuropeanResearch Centre, Grenoble.Fr~d~rique S gond and Max Copperman.
1997.
Lex-icon filtering.
In Proceedings of RANLP97, Bu-dapest.200
