Definiteness Predictions for Japanese Noun Phrases*Ju l ia  E. He ineComputer l inguist ikUniversit~it des Saarlandes66041 SaarbriickenGermanyheine@coli.uni-sb.deAbst rac tOne of the major problems when translatingfrom Japanese into a European language such asGerman or English is to determine definitenessof noun phrases in order to choose the correctdeterminer in the target language.
Even thoughin Japanese, noun phrase reference is said to de-pend in large parts on the discourse context, weshow that in many cases there also exist lin-guistic markers for definiteness.
We use theseto build a rule hierarchy that predicts 79,5%of the articles with an accuracy of 98,9% fromsyntactic-semantic properties alone, yielding anefficient pre-processing tool for the computa-tionally expensive context checking.1 In t roduct ionOne of the major problems when translatingfrom Japanese into a European language suchas German or English is the insertion of articles.Both German and English distinguish betweenthe definite and indefinite article, the former,in general, indicating some degree of familiaritywith the referent, the latter referring to some-thing new.
Thus by using a definite article, thespeaker expects the hearer to be able to iden-tify the object he is talking about, whilst withthe use of an indefinite article, a new referentis introduced into the discourse context (Heim,1982).In contrast, the reference of Japanese nounphrases depends in large parts on the discourse" I would like to thank my colleagues Johan Bos, BjSrnGambiick, Yoshiki Mori, Michael Paul, Manfred Pinkal,C.J.
Rupp, Atsuko Shimada, Kristina Striegnitz andKarsten Worm for their valuable comments and support.This research was supported by the German Ministry ofEducation, Science, Research and Technology (BMBF)within the Verbmobil framework under grant no.
01 IV701 R4.context, taking a previous mention of an objectand all properties that can be inferred from it,as well as world knowledge as indicators for def-inite reference.
Any noun phrase whose referentcannot be recovered from the discourse contextwill in turn be taken as indefinite.
However,noun phrases can also be explicitly marked fordefiniteness, forcing an interpretation of the ref-erent independent of the discourse context.
Inthis way, it is possible to trigger accommodationof previously unknown specific referents, or toget an indefinite reading even if an object of thesame type has already been introduced.For machine translation, it is important ofind a systematic way of extracting the syntacticand semantic information responsible for mark-ing the reference of noun phrases, in order tocorrectly choose the articles to be used in thetarget language.For this paper, we propose a rule hierarchyfor this purpose, that can be used as a pre-processing tool to context checking.
All nounphrases marked for definiteness in any way areassigned their referential property, leaving theothers underspecified.After giving a short outline of related work inthe next section, we will introduce our rule hier-archy in section 3.
The resulting algorithm willbe evaluated in section 4, and in section 5 wewill address implementational issues.
Finally, insection 6 we give a conclusion.2 Re la ted  WorkThe problem of article selection when translat-ing from Japanese into any language requiringthe use of articles has only been addressed sys-tematically by a few authors.
(Murata and Nagao, 1993) define a heuristicrule base for definiteness assignment, consistingof 86 weighted rules.
These rules use surface in-519formation in a sentence to estimate the referen-tial property of each noun.
During processing,each applicable rule assigns confidence weightsto the three possible referential properties 'defi-nite', 'indefinite' and 'generic'.
These values areadded up for each property, and the one withthe highest score will be assigned to the nounin question.
If no rule applies, the default valueis 'indefinite'.
This approach assigns the correctvalue in 85,5% of the cases when used with thetraining data, and 68,9% with unseen data.
(Bond et al, 1995) show how the percentageof noun phrases generated with correct use ofarticles and number in a Japanese to Englishmachine translation system can be increased byapplying heuristic rules to distinguish between'generic', 'referential' and 'ascriptive' uses ofnoun phrases.
These rules are ordered in a hi-erarchical manner, with later rules over-rulingearlier ones.
In addition, for each noun phraseuse there are specific rules, based on linguis-tic information, that assign definiteness to thenoun phrases.
Overall, in their system, inser-tion of the correct article can be improved by12% yielding a correctness level of 77%.In contrast to these approaches relying onmonolingual indicators alone, (Siegel, 1996)proposes to assign definiteness during the trans-fer process.
In a first stage, all lexically de-fined definiteness attributes are assigned.
Toall cases not covered by this, a set of preferencerules is applied, if their translation equivalentin the target language is a noun.
In addition tolinguistic indicators from both the source andtarget language, the rules also take a stack ofreferents mentioned previously in the discourseinto account.
This combined approach is verysuccessful, assigning the correct definiteness at-tributes to 98% of all relevant noun phrases inthe training data.In the approach described in the next sec-tion, we have taken up the idea of using bothlinguistic and contextual information for the as-signment of definiteness attributes to Japanesenoun phrases.
However, instead of using merelya rule base, we propose a monotone algorithmbased on a linguistic rule hierarchy followed bya context checking mechanism.3 The  Ru le  H ierarchyThe rule hierarchy we introduce in this paperhas been devised from a systematic survey ofsome data from a Japanese corpus consisting ofappointment scheduling dialogues3 Since dia-logues in this domain tend to be short, on av-erage consisting of just 14 utterances, most def-inite references have to be introduced by wayof accommodation rather than referring back tothe discourse context.
Moreover, references toevents have a particular tendency to be non-specific, i.e.
stating their existence rather thanexplicating their identity.
Non-specific refer-ences are by definition indefinite, whether thereferent has been previously introduced to thecontext or not.Neither accommodation nor non-specific ref-erence can be realized without linguistic in-dicators, since they would otherwise interferewith the context-based distinction between def-inite and indefinite reference within a discourse.The appointment scheduling domain is there-fore ideal for a case study aimed at extractinglinguistic indicators for definiteness.3.1 Overv iewExplicit marking for definiteness takes place onseveral syntactic levels, namely on the noun it-self, within the noun phrase, through countingexpressions, or on the sentence level.
For eachof these syntactic levels, a set of rules can bedefined by generalizing over the linguistic indi-cators that are responsible for the definitenessattributes carried by the noun phrases in thecorpus.
Each of these rules consists of one ormore preconditions, and a consequent that as-signs the associated efiniteness attribute to therespective noun phrase when the preconditionsare met.As it turns out, none of the rules definedon the same syntactic level interfere with eachother, since they either assign the same value,or their preconditions cannot possibly be met atthe same time.
Thus the rules can be groupedtogether into classes corresponding to the four1In this survey, all the noun phrases from 10 dialogueswere analyzed in detail, determining the regularities thatled to definiteness predictions.
These were then formu-lated into a set of rules and arranged in a hierarchicalmanner to rule out wrong predictions.
A more detaileddescription of the methods used and a full list of the rulescan be found in (Heine, 1997).520syntactic levels they are defined on.
There isa clear hierachy between the four classes, withall rules of one class given priority over all ruleson a lower level, as shown in figure 1.
Note thateven though the rule classes are defined in termsof syntactic levels, the sequence of rule classesin our hierarchy does not correspond in any wayto syntactic structure.nominal phrasenoun rulesotherwise Iclausal rules Iotherwise INP rules Iotherwise Icounting expressionsotherwisedefiniteness attributedefinitenessattributedefinitenessattributedefinitenessD attributecontext checking definitedefault valueDindefiniteFigure 1: Definiteness Algorithm3.2 Noun ru lesOn the noun level, the lexical properties of thenoun or one of its direct modifiers can determinethe reference of the noun in question.There are a number of nouns, that can bemarked as definite on their lexical propertiesalone, either because they refer to a unique ref-erent in the universe of discourse, or becausethey carry some sort of indexical implications.The referent is thus described uniquely withrespect to some implicitly mentioned context.For example, there exist a number of nounsthat implicitly relate the referent with either thehearer or the speaker, depending on the pres-ence or absence of honorifics 2, respectively.
Inthe appointment scheduling domain, the mostfrequently used words of this class are (go)yotei(your/my schedule), (o)kangae (your/my opin-ion) and (go)tsugoo (for you/me).Indexical time expressions like konshuu (thisweek) or raigatsu (next month) refer to a spe-cific period of time that stands in a certain re-lation to the time of utterance.
Even thoughthey do not necessarily have to stand with anarticle in the target language, the reference isstill definite, as in the following example:(1) ra i shuu  desu nenext week to be isn't it'That is ( the)  next  week,  isn't it?
'The interpretation of a modified noun is typi-cally restricted to a specific referent by the mod-ification, thus making it definite in reference.Restrictive modifiers of this type are, for exam-ple, specifiers like demonstratives and posses-sives, as well as time expressions and attribu-tive relative clauses, as shown in the followingexamples.
(2) tooka  no shuu desutenth GEN week to  be'That is the  week  of  the  tenth .
'(3) n i juurokun ich i  kara  ha j imarutwentysixth from to beginshuu wa ikaga deshoo kaweek TOPIC how to be QUESTION2In Japanese, there are two honorific prefixes, go ando, that can be used to politely refer to things relatedto the hearer.
However, there are no such prefixes tohumbly refer to things relating to oneself.521'How is the  week  beginning the 26th?
'However, indefinite pronouns, as for exam-ple hoka (another), also fall into the category ofmodifiers, but explicitly assign indefinite refer-ence to the noun they modify.
These are usuallyused to introduce a new referent into a contextalready containing one or more referents of thesame type.
(4) hoka no hi erabashite itadaite modifferent day choose receive alsoii n desu gagood DISCREL'Could I ask you to choose a differentday?
'At present, there are nine rules belonging tothe noun class, only one of which assigns indef-inite reference whilst all others assign definitereference to the noun in question.3.3 C lausa l  ru lesOn the sentence level, verbs may carry strongpreferences for the definiteness of one or moreof their arguments, omewhat in the way of do-main specific patterns.
Generally, these pat-terns serve to specify whether a complement toa certain verb is more likely to be definite orindefinite in a semantically unmarked interpre-tation.
For example, in a sentence like 5, kaigiga haitte or imasu corresponds to the pattern'EVENT ga hairu' ('have an EVENT scheduled'),where the scheduled event denoted by EVENT isindefinite for the unmarked reading.
(5) kayoobi wa gogo sanji madeTuesday TOPIC  pm 3 o'clock untilkaigi ga ha i t te  orimasu nodemeeting NOM have scheduled since'since I have a meet ing  scheduled until 3pm on Tuesday'On the other hand, in sentence 6, kaigi gaowarimasu is an instance of the pattern 'EVENTga owaru' ('the EVENT will end'), where, in theunmarked reading, the event that ends is pre-supposed to be a specific entity, whether it ispreviously known or not.
(6) juuni j i  ni kaigi ga12 o'clock at meeting NOMowar imasu  nodeto end since'since the  meet ing  will end at 12 o'clock'The object of an existential question or anegation is by default indefinite, since these sen-tence types usually indicate the (non)existenceof the noun in question.
Thus, for example, inthe two sentence patterns 'x wa arimasu ka' ('Isthere an x?')
and 'x wa arimasen' ( 'There is nox.')
the object instantiating x is indefinite, un-less marked otherwise.In addition to these sentence patterns, thereare a number of nouns that can be followed bythe copula suru to form a light verb construc-tion.
These constructions usually come withouta particle and are treated as compound verbs,as for example uchiawase suru ('to arrange').However, these nouns can also occur with theparticle o, as in uchiawase o suru, introducingan ambiguity whether this expression should betreated as a light verb construction or as a nor-mal verb complement structure.
Since this am-biguity can best be resolved at some later point,the noun should be marked as being indefinite,irrespective of whether it will eventually be gen-erated as a noun or a verb in the target lan-guage.
(7) raishuu ikoo denext week f rom.
.
,  onwardsuch iawase  o shitaiarrangement ACC want to maken desu gaDISCREL'I would like to make an ar rangementfrom next week onwards'To override any of these default values, the nounwill have to be explicitly marked, using any ofthe markers on the noun level.
Thus we takethe clausal rules to be between the top levelnoun rules and all other rules further down thehierarchy.From the appointment scheduling domain,eight sentence patterns were extracted, wheresix assign the default indefinite and two indi-cate definite reference.
Thus, together with the522light verb constructions, there are nine rules inthis class.3.4 Noun phrase  rulesThe postpositional particles that complete anoun phrase in Japanese serve primarily as casemarkers, but can also influence the interpreta-tion of the noun with respect to definiteness.However, the definiteness predictions triggeredby the use of particles can be fairly weak and areeasily overridden by other factors, thus placingthe rules emerging from these patterns near thebottom of the hierarchy.The main postpositions indicating definitereference are the topicalization particle wa inits non-contrastive use s, the boundary mark-ers kara (from) and made (to) and the genitivemarker no, especially in conjunction with hoo(side), as indicated by the following examples.
(s) chotto idoo no jikanunfortunately transfer GEN timega torenaiyoo desu neNOM take not DISCREL'Unfortunately, there is no time for thet ransfer .
'(9) genkoo no hoo mada tochuumanuscript GEN side not yet readydankai desu keredomostate to be DISCREL'The  manuscr ip t  is not ready yet.
'All of the four noun phrase rules in the cur-rent framework indicate definite reference.3.5 Count ing  express ionsAs it turns out, there is one more level to therule hierarchy.
Even though counting expres-sions are semantically modifiers, they do notsyntactically modify the noun itself but ratherthe entire noun phrase.
They do not have to beadjacent o the noun phrase they modify, sincethey are marked by a counting suffix indicatingthe type of objects counted.~This means, that definite reference is indicated bythe main use of the particle wa, namely as a topic marker,stressing the discourse referent the conversation is about.There is another, contrastive use of wa, which introducessomething in contrast o another discourse referent.
Nat-urally, this use may introduce a related, albeit previouslyunknown - -  and thus indefinite - -  referent.
(10) nijuuhachinichi g a gogo nitwentyeighth NOM afternoon inkaigi ga i kken haitte orimasumeeting ACC one be scheduled'There is one /a  meet ing  scheduled onthe twentyeighth.
'Semantically, counting expressions imply theexistence of a certain number of the objectscounted, in the same way that the indefinite ar-ticle does.
These expressions are therefore takento be indefinite by default, but can be madedefinite by any of the other rules.
Counting ex-pressions thus make up a class of their own onthe lowest level of the hierarchy.3.6 Underspec i f ied  valuesAs might be expected from the concept of pre-processing, there will be a number of nounphrases that cannot be assigned a definitenessattribute by any of the rules described above.These will remain underspecified for definite-ness until an antecedent can be found for themby the context checking mechanism, or untilthey are assigned a default value.By introducing a value for underspecification,it is possible to postpone the decision whethera noun phrase should be marked definite or in-definite, without losing the information that itmust be marked eventually.
Since default valuesare only introduced when a value is still under-specified after the assignment mechanism hasfinished, there is no need to ever change a valueonce it has been assigned.
This means, thatthe algorithm can work in a strictly monotonemanner, terminating as soon as a value has beenfound.4 Eva luat ion4.1 Per fo rmance  of the  a lgor i thmThe performance of our framework is best de-scribed in terms of recall and precision, whererecall refers to the proportion of all relevantnoun phrases that have been assigned a correctdefiniteness attribute, whilst precision expressesthe percentage of correct assignments among allattributes assigned.The hierarchy was designed as a pre-processto context checking, extracting all values thatcan be assigned on linguistic grounds alone, butleaving all others underspecified.
It is therefore523occurrencescorrectincorrectprecisionnoun rules clausal rules NP rules count rules total159 62 53 1 275158199,4%60 53 1 2722 0 0 396,8% 100% 100% 98,9%Table 1: Precision of the rulesto be expected that its coverage, i.e.
the per-centage of noun phrases assigned a value by thehierarchy, is relatively low.
However, since wepropose that the decision algorithm should bemonotone, it is vitally important for the pre-cision to be as near to 100% as possible.
Anywrong assignments at any stage of the processwill inevitably lead to incorrect ranslation re-sults.To evaluate the hierarchy, we tested the per-formance of our rule base on 20 unseen dia-logues from the corpus.
All noun phrases in thedialogues were first annotated with their defi-niteness attributes, followed by the list of ruleswith matching preconditions.
As a second step,the rules applicable to each noun phrase wereordered according to their class, and the pre-diction of the one highest in the hierarchy wascompared with the annotated value.In the test data, there are 346 noun phrasesthat need assignment ofdefiniteness attributes.
4Table 1 shows the number of noun phrase oc-currences covered by each rule class, i.e.
thenumber of times one of the noun phrases wasassigned a definiteness attribute by any of therules from each class.
This value was then fur-ther divided into the number of correct and in-correct assignments made.
From this, the pre-cision was calculated, dividing the number ofvalues correctly assigned by the number of val-ues assigned at all.
Overall, with a precisionof 98,9%, the aim of high accuracy has beenachieved.Dividing the number of correct assignmentsby the number of noun phrases that need assign-4Additionally, there are 388 time expressions (i.e.dates, times, weekdays and times of day) that under cer-tain conditions also need an article during generation.However, these were excluded from the statistics, sincenearly all of them were found to be trivially definite,somehow artificially pushing the recall of the rules inthe hierarchy up to 88,8%.ment, we get a recall of 78,6%.
Thus, within theappointment scheduling domain, the hierarchyalready accounts for 79,5% of all relevant nounphrases, leaving just 20,5% for the computation-ally expensive context checking.Of the 71 noun phrases left underspecified, 40have definite reference, suggesting 'definite' asthe default value if the hierarchy was to be usedas the sole means of assigning definiteness at-tributes.
This means, that a system integratingthis algorithm with an efficient context check-ing mechanism should have a recall of at least90%, since this is what can already be achievedby using a default value.4.2 Compar ison  to previous approachesThe performance of our framework has beenfound to be better than both of the heuris-tic rule based approaches introduced in sec-tion 2, even before context checking.
However,our framework was defined and tested on therestrictive domain of appointment scheduling.Most of the really difficult cases for article se-lection, as for example generics, do not occur inthis domain, whilst both (Murata and Nagao,1993) and (Bond et al, 1995) build their the-ories around the problem of identifying these.There are no statistics on the performance oftheir systems on a corpus that does not containany generics.The transfer-based approach of (Siegel, 1996)also covers data from the appointment schedul-ing domain, using both linguistic and contextualinformation for assigning defininteness.
How-ever, her results can still not be compared withour approach, since we do not have any fig-ures on how high the recall of our algorithmis with context checking in place.
In addition,the performance data given for our hierarchywas derived from unseen data rather than thedata that were used to draw up the rules, as inSiegel's case.524Even though no direct comparison is possiblebecause of the different est methods and datasets used, we have been able to show that anapproach using a monotone rule hierarchy thatcan be easily integrated with a context checkingmechansim leads to very good results.5 Imp lementat ionThe current framework has been designed aspart of the dialogue and discourse processingcomponent of the Verbmobil machine transla-tion system, a large scale research project inthe area of spontaneous speech dialogue trans-lation between German, English and Japanese(Wahlster, 1997).
Within the modular sys-tem architecture, the dialogue and discourseprocessing is situated in between the compo-nents for semantic construction (Gamb~ck etal., 1996) and semantic-based transfer (Dornaand Emele, 1996).
It uses context knowledge toresolve semantic representations possibly under-specified with respect o syntactic or semanticambiguities.At this stage, all the information eeded fordefiniteness assignment is easily accessible, en-abling the rules in our hierarchy to be imple-mented one-to-one as simple implications.
Sinceall information is accessible at all times, the ap-plication of the rules can be ordered accordingto the hierarchy.
Only if none of the rules givenin the hierarchy are applicable, will the contextchecking process be started.
If an antecedentcan be found for the relevant noun phrase, itwill be assigned efinite reference, otherwise itis taken to be indefinite.The algorithm will terminate as soon as avalue has been assigned, thus ensuring mono-tonicity and efficiency, as 45% of all nounphrases are already assigned a value by one ofthe noun rules at the top of the hierarchy.6 Conc lus ionIn this paper, we have developed an efficientalgorithm for the assignment of definiteness at-tributes to Japanese noun phrases that makesuse of syntactic and semantic information.Within the domain of appointment schedul-ing, the integration of our rule hierarchy reducesthe need for computationally expensive contextchecking to 20,5% of all relevant noun phrases,as 79,5% are already assigned a value with aprecision of 98,9%.Even though the current framework is to alarge extent domain specific, we believe thatit may be easily extended to other domains byadding appropriate rules.Re ferencesFrancis Bond, Kentaro Ogura, and TsukasaKawaoka.
1995.
Noun phrase reference inJapanese-to-English machine translation.
InSixth International Conference on Theoreticaland Methodological Issues in Machine Trans-lation, pages 1-14.Michael Dorna and Martin C. Emele.
1996.Semantic-based transfer.
In Proceedingsof the 16th Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, volume 1, pages 316-321,Kcbenhavn, Denmark.
ACL.BjSrn Gamb~ck, Christian Lieske, and YoshikiMori.
1996.
Underspecified Japanese seman-tics in a machine translation system.
In Pro-ceedings of the 11th Pacific Asia Conferenceon Language, Information and Computation,pages 53-62, Seoul, Korea.Irene Heim.
1982.
The Semantics of Definiteand Indefinite Noun Phrases.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Massachusetts.Julia E. Heine.
1997.
Ein Algorithmus zurBestimmung der Definitheitswerte japanis-chef Nominalphrasen.
Diplomarbeit, Uni-versit~t des Saarlandes, Saarbrficken.
avail-able at: http://www.coli.uni-sb.de/--,heine/arbeit.ps.gz (in German).Masaki Murata and Makoto Nagao.
1993.
De-termination of referential property and num-ber of nouns in Japanese sentences for ma-chine translation into English.
In Proceedingsof the Figh International Conference on The-oretical and Methodological Issues in MachineTranslation, pages 218-225.Melanie Siegel.
1996.
Preferences and defaultsfor definiteness and number in Japanese toGerman machine translation.
In Byung-SooPark and Jong-Bok Kim, editors, Selected Pa-pers from the 11th Pacific Asia Conference onLanguage, Information and Computation.Wolfgang Wahlster.
1997.
Verbmobil - Erken-nung, Analyse, Transfer, Generierung undSynthese von Spontansprache.
VerbmobilReport 198, DFKI GmbH.
(in German).525
