The production of code-mixed discourseDav id  SANKOFFCentre de recherches math~matiques, Universit@ de Montr@alCP 6128 Succursale Centre-VilleMontr@al, Qudbec H3C 3J7sankoff@ere.umontreal.caAbst rac tWe propose a comprehensive theory of code-mixed discourse, encompassing equivalence-point and insertional code-switching, palin-dromic constructions and lexical borrowing.The starting point is a production modelof code-switching accounting for empiricalobservations about switch-point distribution(the equivalence constraint), well-formedness ofmonolingual fragments, conservation of con-stituent structure and lack of constraint be-tween successive switch points, without invok-ing any "code-switching rammar".
Code-switched sentence production makes alternatereference to two virtual monolingual sentences,one in each language, and is based on conser-vative conditions on language labeling of con-stituents, together with a constraint againstreal-time "look-ahead" from one code-switch tothe next.
Selective weakening of model condi-tions can produce (i) the type of palindromic(or portmanteau) construction occasionally oc-curring e.g., in switches between prepositionaland postpositional languages, (ii) the switch-ing by "insertion" of very specific kinds of con-stituent reported e.g., for French noun phrasesin switching with Arabic and, most important,(iii) lexical borrowing.
Borrowing can createambiguity as to language membership of sen-tence items, but the model predicts where thiscan be resolved, and the confirmation of thesepredictions, based on empirical studies of inflec-tional morphology, validates key aspects of themodel.In t roduct ionCommunities of bilinguals tend to evolve a con-versational mode where elements of both lan-guages appear in the same interaction and evenin the same sentence despite the fact that allparticipants may be competent in either of thetwo languages.
Whether this mode is used inpreference to monolingual discourse depends onthe type of interaction, the participants, thesubject of conversation and many other fac-tors.
The grammatical nature of code-mixeddiscourse, however, tends to be very specificto the community and varies widely amongbilingual communities, even among communi-ties which share the same pair of languages.Empirical research as isolated four clearly dis-tinct processes which may be responsible formixing to different extents in different commu-nities - -  code-switching, nonce borrowing, spe-cialized incorporation and interference.
Noneof these processes requires the deformation, al-teration or convergence of either of the two con-stituent languages at the syntactic, lexical, mor-phological, phonological, or semantic levels atthe moment the mixing occurs.
Except for code-switching, however, they may all lead in the longterm to lexical expansion in one or both of thelanguages.This paper is a contribution to a coherent for-mal account of code-mixing which integrates allof these processes 1, though only code-switchingand borrowing will be considered here.
Thisis based on a series of empirical studies whichnow allows us to distinguish between themstructurally and quantitatively.
Our startingpoint will be a recent formal characterizationof a equivalence-point code-switching (Sankoff,1The analysis of code-mixing is a controversial sub-ject with respect o several aspects: Is all code-mixing- -  borrowing, switching, interference - - really the sameprocess?
Do languages involved in code-mixing tend toconverge syntactically?
Are patterns of code-mixing pre-dictable or explicable by theories of (monolingual) gram-mar?
We assume a negative response to all these ques-tions and refer to the l iterature for more detailed iscus-sion.1998).
We will then extend this to two rarercode-switching mechanisms, and finally to lexi-cal borrowing, the most frequent ype of code-mixing.1 Code-swi tch ing1.1 "The  facts"The modern motivation for studying code-switching was initially to explain the obser-vation that in bilingual communities, peakerstend to switch from one language to another in-trasententially at certain syntactic boundariesand not at others (Gumperz & Hernandez,1969).
The first general explanation to accountfor this distribution was Poplack's (1978, 1980)argument hat switching should be favored atthe kinds of syntactic boundaries which occurin both languages, thus avoiding word orderthat might seem unnatural according to oneor both grammars: the equivalence constraint(see also Lipski, 1977; Pfaff, 1979).
Despitecriticism of this approach (Rivas, 1981; Wool-ford, 1983; Di Sciullo et al, 1986; Pandit, 1990;Myers-Scotton, 1993; Belazi et al, 1994; Ma-hootian & Santorini, 1994), it has been suc-cessfully used to account for code-switching inSpanish-English (Poplack, 1978,1980), Finnish-English (Poplack et al, 1987b), Arabic-French(Na'it M'Barek & Sankoff, 1988), Tamil-English(Sankoff et al, 1990), Fongbe-French (Meechan& Poplack, 1995), Wolof-French (Poplack &Meechan, 1995), Igbo-English (Eze, 1997) andmany other bilingual communities.Other fundamental facts about code-switchedsentences include the well-formedness of mono-lingual fragments within such sentences - - truewhether a fragment constitutes a complete con-stituent or stretches across two or more (possi-bly incomplete) constituents, the conservationof constituent structure, and the unpredictabilityof switching - -  even if we can determine wherea code-switch can occur and where it cannot,there is no way of knowing in advance for anysite whether a switch will occur there or not.
Inparticular, if a switch occurs at some point ina sentence, this does not constrain any poten-tial site(s) later in the sentence either to containanother switch or not to - -  there are no forcedswitches.1.2 A product ion  approachWe do not assume that the mechanisms ofswitching from one language to another can bededuced entirely from the general principles ofmonolingual grammars 2.
Thus we do not an-alyze the distribution of intrasentential switchpoints in terms of a grammar of any of thetypes ordinarily used for accounting for singlelanguages, but by means of a left-to-right pro-cess that refers to two well-formed monolingualsentences (i.e.
each satisfying the constraintsof an "ordinary" monolingual grammar for oneof the two languages) in producing monolingualsentence fragments and in evaluating potentialswitch points between these fragments.Our model is based on the assumption thatbilinguals are fully competent in their two lan-guages, that there is no convergence of the twomonolingual codes even during bilingual dis-course, and that a code-switched sentence con-sists of fragments of two monolingual sentences(each one a translation of the other) pieced to-gether.
This is done first through an other-wise unconstrained production model that sim-ply copies part of one monolingual process fol-lowed by part of the other in such a way thatconstituent structure is conserved.
The result-ing process atisfies neither equivalence nor un-predictability.
By adding two very simple rulesfor labeling some constituents according to theirlanguage, the existence of a consistent labeling- -  which can be easily monitored uring real-time linear production - -  turns out to guaran-tee both equivalence and, for most situations,unpredictability.2While formal theories of grammar may well accountfor monolingual language in terms of general linguisticprinciples, there is no reason to believe that processeswhich juxtapose two languages can be explained in ex-actly the same way.
The reasons implicit or explicit inattempts to do so have to do with explanatory economy,either of individual linguistic ompetence or of linguistictheories.
This seems pecious ince both are based on anotion of a "hard-wired" human linguistic faculty evolv-ing in prehistoric monolingualism.
Experience in widelydiverse speech communities suggests instead that code-mixing strategies, including code-switching, evolve in thelife-time of particular communities, are only partly de-pendent on linguistic typology of the two languages andexhibit widely different patterns of adapting monolingualresources for incorporating linguistic innovation.1.3 Hierarchy and linearity.That monolingual fragments are not co-extensive with entire constituents i problem-atic for any model relying on hierarchical re-lations for deciding well-formedness, since suchmodels are designed primarily to ensure well-formedness of entire constituents, monolingualor bilingual.
They cannot ensure that adja-cent same-language parts of neighboring con-stituents are compatible (i.e.
yield a well-formed fragment when juxtaposed), since theseparts may not even be in the same language asthe rest of the constituents that contain them(Muysken, 1995).
For example, an earlier model(Sankoff & Mainville, 1986), using the context-free grammars of two languages to account forcode-switched sentences atisfying the equiv-alence constraint, could not ensure the well-formedness of monolingual fragments, for thevery reason Muysken has pointed out.This problem is at the core of the conflict be-tween hierarchical and linear modes of explana-tion.
We will resolve it by ascribing ultimateresponsibility for the well-formedness of mono-lingual fragments to production-level processes.These fragments, arbitrary substrings of pre-constructed well-formed monolingual sentences,are pieced together during linear production ina way which corresponds to the other generalobservations about code-switching and which isessentially neutral with respect to theories ofmonolingual grammar.1.4 The  syntact ic  mode lWe are interested in seeing how two hierarchi-cally structured languages resolve their word-order differences during intrasentential code-switching, without the confounding effects ofother linguistic phenomena.
Thus we will con-struct a model where the only differences be-tween two languages have to do with wordorder and the (phonological) form of lexicalitems, and work out the logical consequencesfor code-switching of various assumptions andconstraints on the production of bilingual sen-tences.
Linearity and hierarchy are the keystructural aspects here 3, and the simplest classSin focusing on the relationship between word orderand hierarchy, we are choosing a model not adapted tothe treatment of tags and moveable lements uch asmany adverbials (whose "switchability" is uncontrover-of recursive grammars accommodating theseproperties i  that of context-free grammars.Consider a context-free grammar consistingof a set C of "categories" or non-terminal sym-bols, including one distinguished symbol s (for"sentence"); a set of terminal symbols T ("lex-ical slots"), none of which are also in C, a lex-icon L which is basically a set of words and anindication of the kind of lexical slot each wordcan fill, and a set of rewrite rules R of formc --~ vl - "vn  where c is a symbol in C', and thestring on the right hand side v l .
.
.
vn  consistsof one or more symbols in T or C. A sentenceis derived by writing s, then rewriting s by thestring Ul ' "um on the right hand side of anyrule in R of form s -~ u l " .um,  then rewrit-ing any ui which is non-terminal by some ruleof form ui --~ w l .
.
.wp  and so on.
Whenever alexical slot appears in the string it can be filledwith words of the appropriate category from L.When there are no more non-terminal symbols(and R must be such that this is always possi-ble), the derivation stops, and the current stringis just a sentence generated by the grammar.We will make use of phrase structure tree rep-resentation for sentences and their constituents.Each symbol appearing in the derivation is rep-resented by a node of the tree; it dominatesthe constituent of which it is the highest node,and may be used to represent that constituent.
(Each terminal node is itself a constituent.
)Note that the words in each constituent forma (contiguous) ubstring of the sentence.
We de-fine these, and all other contiguous substrings ofa well-formed sentence string to be well-formedfragments.In order to speak of code-switching betweentwo different grammars, it is necessary to havesome connection between the categories of oneand the categories of the other 4.
We makesial), nor of remote relationships such as discontinuousconstituents, internal co-reference, tc., whose effects oncode-switching, if any, have never been systematicallydocumented.
On the other hand, context-sensitive phe-nomena such as subcategorization (Bentahila ~ Davies,1983), cliticization or certain deletion processes also es-cape the scope of context-free modeling, as do other nullelements, agreement rules and other features which may,in particular communities, be important o understand-ing switch sites (Muysken, 1995).4In natural anguages, uch correspondences will usu-ally be imperfect (Muysken, 1995), but this is peripheralto our interest in word order.10the strong assumptions of lexical translatabilityand categorial congruence, meaning that thereis a one-to-one correspondence b tween the lex-icon LA of language A and the lexicon LB oflanguage B, though the words are all recog-nizable as coming from one language or theother.
We use the same categories C and lex-ical slots T for both languages.
Furthermorewe assume grammatical congruence: there is aone-to-one connection between the rulesRA oflanguage A and RB of language B - -  if RAcontains a rule c ~ Vl""Vn,  then RB mustcontain a rule c --+ Ul .
.
.~Zn,  where each sym-bol in Vl""Vn has its counterpart in Ul ' "un ,and vice-versa, though the order of the termsin one string will not in general correspond tothe order of the terms in the other.
Finally,for convenience, we will assume fixed word or-der, that is if c --r V l .
.
.
vn in a given grammar,then there may be other rules rewriting C inthat grammar, but none where the right handside contains exactly the same set of symbolsU1, ?
?
",~3n.To simplify our presentation i this article,we do not allow ambiguity in our grammars.Not only must each monolingual sentence bederivable in exactly one way, but each rule maycontain any one symbol only once on its righthand side.
These conditions may be relaxed, aslong as there is a way of identifying correspond-ing symbols in corresponding rules in the twogrammars.In comparing the structure of two sentences,we say that they have the same constituentstructure if there is a one-to-one correspondencebetween their constituents such that if x in onesentence corresponds to y in the other, then the(unordered) set of subconstituents of x corre-sponds to the set of subconstituents of y.The consequences of our assumptions aresummarized in:Theorem 1 5 Every sentence in language Ahas a unique counterpart in language B withthe same constituent structure and whose lexicalitems are translations o/ those in the sentenceo/language A.Examples (la,b) are two (fictitious) sentencesin English and French which we may imagine tobe counterparts ofeach other according to some5Proofs of all theorems are given in Sankoff (1998)grammatical analysis of the two languages, inthe sense of Theorem 1:Despite differences in word order, the con-stituent structure is identical and the lexicalitems are word-for-word translations (withoutquibbling about the questionable xical statusof the reflexive clitic and the genitive particleand the somewhat different internal structureof determiner in the PP).D N V pro PPD ~ ' ~  NPThe brothers wash themselves with some of Grandma's remarkable soap(lb) .......... S ~VPi II~ ~es  se l~ent avec du ~lvon rem~uable d  grand-maman1.5 The  product ion  model .In the model, the production of a code-switchedsentence presupposes the existence of two vir-tual sentences, one in language A and one inlanguage B, counterparts of each other as inTheorem 1.
For each 6 of (2a,b,c,d) the pair ofvirtual sentences i the one illustrated in (la,b).
(2a) The brothers wash themselves I avec dusavon remarquable de grand-maman(2b) Les fr~res se lavent I with some of Grand-ma's remarkable soap(2c) The brothers I se lavent avec I some ofGrandma's remarkable soap(2d) The ( fr~res I wash themselves I avec I someof Grandma's remarkable soapGiven the two virtual sentences in languages Aand B, the code-switched sentence is producedby taking part of one of them, followed by part?Our examples of English/French mixing in this pa-per are fabricated, and their well-formedness (or not)asserted, solely to illustrate our arguments; they do notconstitute mpirical data.11of the other, and so on, without using any word(or its translation) more than once, until everylexical element (or its translation) has been usedup.The idea of using virtual sentences i an ex-tension of concepts implicit in Poplack's origi-nal discovery (1978, 1980) of the importance ofequivalence sites to code-switching and is whatdistinguishes it from attempts to account forcode-switching using purely distributional data- -  examples of sentences thought o be eitherwell-formed or not.
It implies the comparisonof the sentence actually produced with what"could have been said" in either of the monolin-gual modes.
Though the comparative data areof course not directly accessible, since only onesentence is uttered, controlled inference aboutunrealized possibilities is consistent with rigor-ous methodology (cf the notion of the linguisticvariable (Labov, 1969; Sankoff, 1988).Postulating two complete virtual sentences,however, is an analytical convenience.
All thatwould really be needed in a more realistic (andcomplicated) analysis, are the parts of eachsentence that are actually used plus some ad-ditional details about the constituent withinwhich a switch occurs.
The consequences ofthis device, and its realism, lie largely in theway the monolingual fragments are produced"on the fly" by the monolingual grammars, how-ever these grammars are conceived in theory.Indeed, we need not refer to any particular lin-guistic theory for this aspect.The above process produces not only plausi-ble code-switched sentences such as those in (2),but also any combination of elements in any or-der as in (3).
(3) de grand-maman \ [ the  with \[ remarquablefr~res \[ soap themselves wash some ofTo arrive at an empirically and conceptuallysatisfactory model, we must add constraints.The first constraint is motivated by the empiri-cal observation that each monolingual fragmentin bilingual discourse tends to be well-formedin its lexifier language.
We will assume that theproduction of the sentence starts with a word in(either) one of the virtual sentences, and copiessuccessive words from left to right in that sen-tence without skipping any until there is a code-switch to some word in the other virtual sen-tence.
From this point in the other virtual sen-tence, production continues from left to right,and so on.
When the left-to-right productionarrives at a word (such as se after fr~res in ex-ample 4) which has already been used in thecurrent or the other language (also some of af-ter with) or at the end of one of the virtual sen-tences, there must be a switch to the other vir-tual sentence or, if all the words have been used(after remarkable), the production must stop.
(4) du savon \[ wash themselves with \[ les fr~res\[ Grandma's remarkableTheorem 2 The monolingual fragments in acode-switched sentence produced by left-to-rightcopying are well-formed.The left-to-right assumption ensures that mono-lingual fragments are well-formed, as illustratedin (4), as well as (2).
By itself, however, itdoes not constrain how the alternating frag-ments in one language and the other are related;indeed it allows them to be juxtaposed in anyorder, as long as the fragment languages alter-nate; sister elements in the same constituent ina virtual sentence may find themselves remotefrom each other in the code-switched sentence,as with remarkable and savon in example (4).As mentioned in Section 1.1, however, empiri-cal research confirms that constituent structure,insofar as content and embedding or nesting re-lations are concerned, is conserved even if theconstituent contains a code-switch.To conform to this observation, we make asecond assumption, that once the productionprocess enters or switches into a constituent,it must exhaust all the lexical slots in the con-stituent, in one language or both, before return-ing into a higher-level constituent or entering asister constituent.
In other words, each time itenters a deeper, or more nested, subconstituent,it cannot exit from it until that subconstituentis exhausted.
Note that this assumption is in-dependent ofwhether or not the production fol-lows the left-to-right process described above, sothat the sentence (5) satisfies nested first, butnot left-to-right.
(5) (wash((some of (Grandma's oap remark-able)) with) themselves) \[ (fr~res les)Theorem 3 Lexicalizing constituents accord-ing to nested-first is a sufficient condition for12conserving the same constituent structure in thecode-switched sentence as in the two virtual sen-tences.The nested first condition and the left-to-rightassumption are independent, in the sense thatneither implies the other, as is clear from (4)and (5).
Neither excludes the other, and to-gether, as in (6) and (2), they produce code-switched sentences with well-formed monolin-gual fragments and the same constituent struc-ture as the virtual sentences.
(6a) (se lavent I (with (some of (Grandma's re-markable soap)))) I (les fr~res)(6b) (fr~res I the) I ((avec I (some of (Grandma'sI savon remarquable))) I wash themselves )1.6 The  language of const i tuents  andsubconst i tuents .The model in Section 1.5, though it producessentences like those in (2) and (6) with some de-sirable properties, is not complete.
With onlythe two conditions, certain configurations mayoccur, such as those in (6), that are clearlyunrealistic.
For example, if the monolingualfragment being copied includes a word whichmust be positioned finally in a constituent, likefr~res in (6b), and if the words of the con-stituent in one virtual sentence or the otherhave not yet been used up, then an immediatecode-switch, to the in this instance, is obliga-tory to satisfy nested f i r s t -  the monolingualfragment cannot continue, even though it mayhave a natural continuation into another con-stituent.
This, and other instances of forcedcode-switching, are clearly not phenomena ob-served in real bilingual discourse.Another type of construction ot found innatural bilingual corpora but permitted in thesimple production model might include a code-switched sentence which begins with a fragmentof the virtual sentence in language A whichwould never occur in sentence-initial position inmonolingual discourse in language A, such as selavent in (6a).
More generally, if there are sev-eral sister subconstituents in a constituent, theymay be permuted in any order, as long as thereis a switch between each adjacent pair.
Still an-other anomalous output from this model, evenif the two monolingual grammars contrast com-pletely, is a code-switch between every adjacentpair of words in the sentence.Thus the output of the production process asis hitherto formulated seems unduly constrainedfrom the production point of view (by forcingswitches) and not constrained enough from theperspective of the output structure.
We thuscome to the main point of this section: short ofthe equivalence constraint itself, can we moti-vate some constraint o account for the obser-vation that switching occurs almost exclusivelyat equivalence points (notion to be formalizedin Section 1.6.1) and virtually all equivalencepoints seem to be eligible switch points?
Andcan this be done in such a way that during pro-duction, the model speaker avoids any switch-ing which will obligatorily require compensatoryswitches later on in the sentence construction(switch planning or forcing)?
Furthermore, canwe do this without referring to facts of partic-ular languages, properties of particular gram-matical categories, or even the mechanisms ofparticular theories of monolingual grammar?Our approach to this problem is to postu-late a limited degree of structural monitoring.Monitoring the monolingual fragments for well-formedness i uncontroversial, nd we need notenter into the details.
What we propose formonitoring at the switch points is the "languagelabel" of the constituent in which the switch oc-curs and of its immediate subconstituents.We first ask: what parts of the constituentstructure of the code-switched sentence may bewith certainty ascribed to one language or theother only, and hence should be labeled accord-ingly?
Certainly (i) all terminal symbols - -  lexi-cal slots - -  are labeled according to whether theword filling the slot comes from LA or LB, sinceall words are identifiable as to their language, bydefinition in our model of congruent grammars.
(ii) At the constituent level, any constituent, allof whose immediate subconstituents have thesame label, should itself have this label.
Any-thing else would be inconsistent.
We will pro-pose a third criterion for labeling constituents,but we first prove the following"Theorem 4 Any non-terminal node carrying alabel must have at least one immediate descen-dant node which has this same label or is un-labeled, and one descendant (possibly a lexicalslot) which has the same label.Different instantiations of this model may ac-tually specify that certain subconstituents "in-13herit" the label - -  in one theory the determinermay inherit the label of the noun phrase, in an-other theory it may be the noun itself.Requirement (ii) depends on constituent con-tent, but not on constituent order, so that itapplies meaningfully to any sentence satisfyingnested first such as (5) or (6b).
The labeling of(6b) is illustrated in (7).j SN(F) D(E)ifr~res the avec some of Grandma's sawn rem~Nuable wash themselvesTo constrain the order, we are motivated totry to exclude situations uch as a declarativesentence which begins with a well-formed verbphrase entirely in English followed by a subjectnoun phrase in another language.
More gener-ally, (iii) any subconstituent which is out of rankorder position among its sister subconstituentsaccording to one of the languages, must receivethe label of the other language.
For example, ifthe languages A and B are SVO and VSO, re-spectively, and the code-switched sentence hasorder VSO, then the labeling should be vBsBo;if the code-switched sentence were SOV, thencondition (iii) could not be satisfied, since O isout of order according to both languages, as isthe V.If conditions (i)-(iii), all of which are well-motivated, cannot be simultaneously satisfied,the code-switched sentence cannot be consid-ered well-formed.
Thus in our hypotheticalexample with a sentence-initial English verbphrase, requirements (ii) and (iii) conflict, sothe sentence is not well-formed.
And in exam-ple (7) condition (iii) cannot be satisfied withrespect o any of the categories lexicalized byfr&es, the, savon, remarquable, wash and them-selves, nor the PP node - -  according to the ex-tremely constrained grammars responsible forexamples (la,b).
On the other hand, each ofexamples (2a,b,c,d) satisfy all of the conditions(i)-(iii).All that a speaker monitors is the languagelabel of the constituent in which a potentialswitch occurs and that of its subconstituents.No additional abeling is warranted withinthis framework, though other treatments ofcode-switching allhave their own particular wayof assigning a label to each and every con-stituent (Rivas, 1981; Woolford, 1983; Joshi,1985; Di Sciullo et al, 1986; Myers-Scotton,1993).
In particular, we would claim that thereis no conceptual justification or need for postu-lating an underlying (or "matrix") language forthe entire sentence itself when this is not moti-vated by criteria (ii) and (iii).1.6.1 The  equivalence constra int .In the string of words which constitute a code-switched sentence in our model, there is noproblem in identifying where a fragment in lan-guage A stops and one in language B starts.
Onthe constituent level, however, it is not as ob-vious where this switch should be located andsometimes even whether or not there is an inter-constituent switch, as in (8).
(8) J S (E ) .
_  .
._.
.
.
.
.
.~) ---- ~- VP(E)D~E) ~ V(E) NI~E)\[ AD(~) N(E~ \[ D~E) N(E)/ l, I:o,,o / IThe original Duke \[ de Lorraine \[ had 10 000 menThis is an example of string-level code-switchingwith and without corresponding constituent-level switches.
The rule NP--+ ADJ+NP in En-glish and NP-~ NP+ADJ in French results inthe lowest NP being labeled E, by requirement(iii).
The higher NPs, the VP, the object NPand the S are labeled E, and the PP labeledF because all of their subconstituents are (re-quirement (ii)).
The code-switch between Dukeand de is also a constituent-level switch betweenDuke and the PP, but the switch between Lor-raine and had is not reflected by a switch be-tween the highest NP and its sister VP sincethey are both labeled E.In general, what constitutes a code-switch be-tween two adjacent sister constituents?
Theonly reasonable answer is that one constituent islabeled A and the other B.
What happens if twodifferently labeled sister constituents are sepa-rated by one or more unlabeled constituents?Once again it is clear that there has been a code-14switch at the constituent level, but the site can-not be pinned down, other than by saying thatit occurred in the interval between the two la-beled constituents.
Note that there also mustbe switches at some lower levels within each ofthe intervening unlabeled constituents; other-wise they could not be unlabeled, by criterion(ii).We can now state the equivalence constraint.Consider the corresponding rules for orderingthe n subconstituents of a given constituent inlanguage A and language B.
If the sets of thefirst i symbols on the right-hand side of the rulesare different in the two grammars (and hencethe set of the last n - i symbols are also differ-ent, since the two rules are congruent), then theequivalence constraint prohibits a code-switchbetween the i-th and i + 1-st subconstituents.Otherwise the boundary between the two sub-constituents i  an equivalence point and a code-switch is permitted.
In the case n = 2, thisreduces to the prohibition of a code-switch be-tween the two subconstituents unless the twolanguages order them in the same way.1.7 P roo f  of  the  equiva lence constraint.The production model in Section 1.5 and thelabeling rules in Section 1.6 ensure that mono-lingual fragments are well-formed, constituentstructures are correct and that no constituentlabeled X appears within a higher constituentin a rank order position not permitted in lan-guage X.
This does not mean that the equiv-alence constraint holds.
Consider for examplethe rules c --~ xyz and c --+ zyx in languagesA and B respectively.
Then the model as it isnow constituted would permit the constituentorder xAyBz A, with two constituent-level code-switches, both of which violate the equivalenceconstraint.
(cf Grandma's I remarquable I soapor savon I remarkable I de grand-maman.
)In one important case, however, equivalencealways holds.
Monolingual grammars havebinary constituent-subconstituent structure ifthere are at most two symbols on the right-handside of every rule.
Then the following holds:Theorem 5 Given a well-formed code-switchedsentence where the monolingual grammars havebinary constituent-subconstituent structure.
Iftwo sister subconstituents are labeled A and B,respectively, the code-switch between them satis-ties the equivalence constraint.As we have seen, however, the theorem may nothold if rules may have more than two termson their right-hand sides.
The counter-exampleshown above, for example, represents the inser-tion of a language B subconstituent i to an oth-erwise language A constituent.
This requirestwo code-switches, one before and one after theinserted subconstituent.
If a code-mixing strat-egy were to be based on the insertion of con-stituents in this way, every code-switch beforean insertion would require the speaker to planfor an appropriate second code-switch later onin the sentence.While many types of relatively complex for-ward planning must be incorporated into mono-lingual production models, the distribution ofcode-switches in bilingual corpora is more con-sistent with a hypothesis of the independence ofsuccessive code-switches: no forced switches (orno planning).
Where a switch takes place in be-tween two constituents, well-formedness of thecode-switched sentence cannot depend furtherswitches later on in the left-to-right order 7.Theorem 6 Given a well-formed code-switchedsentence.
If two sister subeonstituents are la-beled A and B, respectively, and there is no la-beled subconstituent between them, then underno forced switches, there must be a code-switchsatisfying the equivalence constraint in the in-terval between the labeled subconstituents.2 Relaxing the constraints.2.1 Repetition-translation.The model in Section 1 precludes forms suchas *se lavent \[ themselves where correspond-ing items from both virtual sentences (in thiscase se and themselves) appear.
Such repeat-translations (also called portmanteau or palin-dromic constructions do occur, albeit rarely, insome corpora.Example (9) is drawn from the Finnish-English code-mixing corpus of Poplack et al(1987b).
We assume, following these authors'arguments, that this sentence consists of threefragments, with code-switches immediately be-fore and after the English preposition to.
TherThere are some exceptions: these will be discussedin Section 2.2.15ellative case-marked kidneyst~i and illative aor-taan are formed of borrowings from English andbehave as native items (e.g.
there is no En-glish determiner preceding them as would beexpected within English fragments; rather theymanifest null determiners and case-markingcharacteristic of Finnish - -  see Section 3).
(9) Mutta se oli kidneyst~i I to \[ aortaan.but it was kidney-el, aorta-il.
'But it was from the kidney to the aorta.
'The interesting aspect of this example is that toand the ellative marker -an play identical rolesand only one should have appeared in the ad-positional phrase containing aorta according toour model.
The same, highly bilingual, speakerproduced a similar example in (10).
(10) Ja sitten, uh, miss~i h/in n- \[ at \[ yliopistossaand then where she n- university-in.otti, niin kuin, \[ art history.took-3p., like,'And then, uh, where did she- at universityshe took, like, art history.
'Again, the inessive marker -ssa has the samefunction as the English preposition at and onlyone of them should have appeared, according toour model.This type of construction, involving the re-dundant use of functionally identical words, israre - -  examples (9) and (10) are the only twoin the Finnish-English corpus - -  and, as canbe seen in (10), tends to evidence production-level difficulties (hesitations, autocorrection,etc.).
Nishimura (1986) presents everal simi-lar examples involving adpositional phrases forJapanese-English code-mixing.It is also possible to find occasional instancesof redundant verb use in SVO/SOV mixing - -producing a SVOV structure.
Examples (11)and (12) below are drawn from the Tamil-English code-mixing corpus of Sankoff et al(1990).
(11) They gave me a researchgrant \[ kodutaa.gave-3p.-pl.-past'They gave me a research grant.
'(12) I was talking to Ioru orutanooda peesindu iruntein.one person-com, talk-cont, be-lp.-sg.-past'I was talking to a person.
'Still other examples from the same corpus com-bine redundant verb plus complementizer forpropositional complements:(13) I think it's the Europeaninfluence I nu ninaikirein.that think-lp.-sg.-pres.
'I think that its the European influence.
'Precisely how does this violate the conditionsof our model, and can they be relaxed to ac-commodate it?
Clearly the first postulate vio-lated (Section 1.5) is that the "...code-switchedsentence is produced by taking part of one of\[the virtual sentences\], followed by part of theother, and so on, without using any word (orits translation) more than once, until every lex-ical element (or its translation) has been usedup."
What if we changed the latter part of thisto "... and so on, until every lexical element(and/or its translation) has been used once?
"This general extension allows for the use of anyelement as well as its translation in the samesentence.
More limited extensions, where onlyspecified lexical classes may occur in both lan-guages, would be more consistent with actualspeech behaviour.With these kinds of changes, there is no dif-ficulty in retaining the left-to-right and nestedfirst assumptions, as well as consituent label-ing criteria (i) and (ii).
Condition (iii), formu-lated as it is in terms of the rank order of con-stituents, must be worded differently to capturethe basic idea that a constituent is labeled ac-cording to language A whenever it is out placeaccording to a rule of language B, and vice-versa.
"Out of place" can no longer be detectedby simply checking the rank order, but by ascer-taining whether any sister constituent preced-ing the candidate constituent is prohibited frompreceding it by the appropriate rule of languageB, and similarly for constituents following thecandidate constituent.
An analogous procedurecan be used to verify the equivalence constraint.Typically, one sister constituent of the re-peated translated constituents will receive twoconflicting labelings from criterion (iii) in thissituation.
The noun in the Finnish adpositional16phrase, the object in SVOV constructions, theproposition complement ofboth the English andTamil verbs, all receive two labels this way.
Toweaken the model in order to accept such sen-tences, we must discard conflicting criterion (iii)labelings due to "out of place" configurationswith respect to the repeated translated con-stituent.
Criteria (i) and (ii) still operate.
Theequivalence constraint will not hold with respectto this sister constituent, but can be verifiedelsewhere.2.2 Insert ional  code-switching.In some bilingual communities, the code-mixingmode of discourse may include the possibility ofinserting one specific type of constituent intopositions where it would not occur monolin-gually.
In the Tamil-English corpus in Section2.1, examples (14) and (15), as well as (13), il-lustrate the placement of an English propositionpreceding the Tamil propositional complemen-tizer, instead of in its obligatory English posi-tion following that.
(14) Even there, I am really lucky \[ nu collanum.that say must'Even there, one must say that I am reallylucky.
'(15) It corrodes your confidence Inu, enakku oru feeling sthat I-dat.
a'I have a feeling that it corrodes yourconfidence.
'It is important o note that in this commu-nity this pattern is confined to the very par-ticular category of propositional complements.All other code-switches satisfy the equivalenceconstraint; none of the numerous other word-order conflicts between Tamil and English giverise to an insertional code-switching possibility.A different type of constituent insertionhas been characterized quantitatively by Na'itM'Barek & Sankoff (1988).
This involves theinsertion, by bilingual Moroccans, of a fullFrench noun phrase, including determiners andquantifiers, in all contexts where an Arabicnoun phrase would be appropriate.
This in-cludes, among other contexts, post-verbal sub-jects as in (16), which are not possible in French.s feeling is treated as a loanword, for reasons discussedin Section 3.Determiner-initial French noun phrases also ap-pear after demonstratives a in (17) and (18),producing demonstrative-determiner sequences,and after the indefinite wa.hd as in (18), produc-ing determiner-determiner sequences, neither ofwhich is a French pattern.
(16) 7aw \[les demandesarrived the applications'The applications arrived.
'(17) migi b.hal duk \[ les avions 14gersThis is not like these the airplanes light'It's not like these light planes.
'17(18) ~a s'adresse surtout \[ l'wa.hd \[unethis is targeted mostly at one acertaine classe \[ .hant walla \[le luxe\[certain class because has become luxurybezzaf ' \[ les h6tels.much in the hotels'This is targeted mostly at a certain classbecause the hotels have become tooluxurious.
'The sentences we have shown containing ex-amples of constituent insertion are all excludedfrom the model based on the equivalence con-straint.
For example, the English propositionalcomplement preceding the Tamil complemen-tizer nu would be labeled for Tamil by crite-rion (iii) because of its non-English position,but this would conflict with the English labelit would receive from criterion (ii) since it isa normal English sentence containing only En-glish lexical items.
Similarly, the post-verbalsubject consisting entirely of a normal Frenchnoun phrase receives conflicting labels from itsposition corresponding to Arabic rules and fromits own constituent elements.It must be stressed that not all bilingual com-munities that develop code-mixing modes of dis-course make use of constituent insertion; thosethat do (e.g.
Tamil-English or Arabic-French),use it very sparingly in the sense that typicallyonly one type of constituent (English proposi-tions or French noun phrases) may be insertedin contexts (before nu, postverbally) where itwould not be found in monolingual discourse.It is not difficult in this case to relax themodel conditions o that such sentences are per-mitted.
As in Section 2.1, the specified categoryis simply allowed to escape labeling by crite-rion (iii), and can be labeled by its own sub-constituents (criterion (ii)).
There is no dan-ger that this will result in anomalous labelinghigher in the phrase structure, since a sister con-stituent (the Tamil complementizer, the Ara-bic verb) will already have the contrary label,and the constituent containing them is thus pre-vented from receiving a label by way of criterion(ii).
Note, however, that only those insertionswhich are not in conflict with the fundamen-tal production conditions left-to-right and mostnested can be considered well-formed.
In addi-tion, the equivalence constraint, wherever thespecified category is not one of the constituentsdirectly involved, still holds.3 The  bor rowing  process .The equivalence constraint formalized in Sec-tion 1.6.1 has been verified as a general ten-dency in several communities - Puerto RicanSpanish and English in New York (Poplack,1980), Finnish and English (Poplack et al,1987b), Tamil and English (Sankoff et al,1990), Wolof and French, and Fongbe andFrench (Meechan & Poplack, 1995; Poplack &Meechan, 1995), Igbo and English (Eze, 1997),and others.
However, there are actually rela-tively few data on which it has been indepen-dently tested, since most of the voluminous lit-erature on code-switching, especially that oninsertional switching, is based on data whichrepresent, we would claim, lexical borrowing(e.g.
Eliasson, 1991; Mahootian & Santorini,1994; Backus, 1996).
While code-switching es-sentially involves the reconciliation of the wordorders of both languages, only the word-orderof the recipient language is pertinent o bor-rowing.
Thus attempts to understand code-switching based on a mixture of borrowing andtrue switching data are likely to be misleading.In the model constructed above, the borrow-ing process is not relevant.
Loanwords, includ-ing those are ad hoc, "nonce", or momentary,uses, are not excluded, but simply consideredto be syntactically integrated, i.e.
to behave asnative lexical items with respect o word order.How can this working hypothesis be validated?In Sections 3.1 and 3.2, we demonstrate an an-swer to this problem.3.1 Propert ies of loanwords.Many loanwords have long histories in the re-cipient language, are used by monolinguals (of-ten with no consciousness of their foreign et-ymology), are widespread and are accepted bym0nolingual dictionaries and other linguistic ar-biters.
None of these non-structural character-istics, however, are necessary to the borrowingprocess.
In many communities, bilinguals haveaccess to essentially the entire content-word lex-icon of one language as potential loanwordsinto the other, perhaps for a single usage only.What is important is that when these words areborrowed the structural linguistic characteris-tics of their usage are the same as with estab-lished loanwords.
What are these characteris-tics?
Some of them are: integration into therecipient language at the syntactic, morpholog-ical, semantic and phonological levels, use asa single item independent of other donor lan-guage material, and restriction to nouns, verbs,adjectives, etc., to the exclusion of determiners,pronouns, prepositions and other grammaticalwords.Often, during the study of a bilingual cor-pus, we discover a pattern of words from a spe-cific lexical category in language A appearingin mixed discourse in contexts where they seemto violate the equivalence constraint, but whenconsidered as language B words, i.e.
borrow-ings, there is no violation, e.g.
kidney in (9),feeling in (15).
Thus these words seem syntac-tically integrated into language B.
To confirmtheir borrowed status, we verify the other prop-erties of loanwords.Phonological integration turns out to be anunreliable indicator, for two reasons (cf Poplacket al, 1987a).
One is that bilinguals, in con-trast to monolinguals, tend to be aware of theetymology of loanwords and, in some commu-nities, will often reflect this knowledge in theirpronunciation of borrowed items.
Second, insome communities, the learning context resultsin phonologies for languages A and B whichconverge in unpredictable and diverse ways fromspeaker to speaker.Semantic integration refers to a shift in func-tion or meaning of a loanword from donor lan-guage characteristics to recipient language char-acteristics.
This may often be documented forestablished loanwords that have had time to18evolve within the host language, or for borrow-ings between languages whose functional cate-gories are structured very differently, but in gen-eral, where bilingual borrowings are most fre-quently from and into the category of nouns, thecriterion of semantic integration, though satis-fied, may not always revealing.The criterion of isolated occurrence of loan-words in recipient language contexts is moreuniversal and is usually relatively easy to ap-ply.
The main difficulties come from compoundwords and other multi-word forms whose statusas single lexical items is not always clear.
Sta-tistically, these should not constitute a majorproblem.
There is also the possibility of coin-cidence.
If nouns are often borrowed and ad-jectives are often borrowed, then occasionally anoun-adjective combination will appear to havebeen borrowed together, when this is just theresult of chance.
This will also be relativelyrare.The lexical/grammatical (or content/ func-tion) contrast is also useful.
It is true thatamong the world's languages, loanwords have onoccasion included prepositions, pronouns, de-terminers, and other grammatical categories,but these are exceptional, and the overwhelmingtendency is for borrowing, and especially one-time borrowing by bilinguals, to affect nouns,and to a lesser extent, verbs, adjectives and ad-verbs.
Moreover, in specific communities, bilin-gual borrowing may be focused on particularcategories more than in other communities, andthese patterns may be useful for analytical pur-poses.Finally, it is the criterion of morphological in-tegration which is of great interest.
Loanwords,established or momentary, are inflected exclu-sively through recipient language morphologicalrules.
Insofar as such marking is non-null and isdifferent for language A and language B, wordsborrowed from the former into the latter shoulddisplay exclusively language B inflectional mor-phology.3.2 Case mark ing  of Engl ish-or iginnouns in TamilIn the Tamil corpus referred to in Sections 2.1and 2.2, many English-origin ouns occur inpreverbal position, where the verb is an in-flected Tamil form.
Tamil being a SOV lan-guage, this is just where Tamil direct (and indi-marker markerpresent absent NACCUSATIVEEnglish origin 29% 71% 108Native Tamil(no pronouns) 39% 61% 51DATIVEEnglish origin 86% 14% 91Native Tamil 99% 1% 230Table 1: Variable accusative and dative markingon English-origin and native Tamil objects.rect) objects appear.
Examining these English-origin nouns, we first note that these occur mostfrequently in isolation, and occasionally as com-pounds, or as familiar adjective-noun combina-tions, but never preceded by English preposi-tions, articles, quantifiers or demonstratives awould frequently be the case if these were partsof well-formed English fragments resulting fromcode-switching.Second, whereas the preponderance of prever-bal native Tamil objects are actually pronouns,from 45-70% depending on the case, no Englishpronouns whatsoever appear in this context, aswould be expected from borrowings, but not ifthese were code-switches into English fragments- -  which would normally include at least the oc-casional pronoun.Third, it is the inflectional morphology onthese nouns which is the most revealing.
Theyeither have null morphology or Tamil inflec-tions.
Since in Tamil the numerically fre-quent accusatives and datives are prescribed totake non-null case-marking, we examine mark-ing rates quantitatively.
In fact, as in Table1, many (non-pronominal) Tamil forms are un-marked, especially accusatives.
The Engiish-origin forms show remarkably parallel rates, es-pecially when the accusative-dative contrast isconsidered.
This morphological integration intoTamil is exactly what would be expected of bor-rowings, and certainly not of well-formed En-glish fragments produced by code-switching.In summary, the criteria of syntactic integra-tion, isolation, lexical category, and morpholog-ical integration all confirm the loanword statusof the preverbal English-origin ouns, and jus-tify our considering them as Tamil nouns forthe purposes of applying our model of code-19switching.3.3 Formal  cons iderat ionsFormally, the only adaptation of our model nec-essary to allow for borrowing is, for specifiedterminal categories in T, the list of words inlanguage A in the category is added in to thepre-existing list for language B, so that thereare now two possible translations in B for eachword in A in this category.
The uniquenessstatement in Theorem 1 has to be modified totake this into account, but this leads to no diffi-culty.
We presume of course that the borrowedword in B can be distinguished from its "ety-mological" origin in A by the tests and criteriaillustrated in Section 3.2.D iscuss ion .The core of this work is our model ofequivalence-point code-switching.
This avoidsissues of grammatical theory by focusing onthe "real-time" production of a code-mixed sen-tence drawing on the output of two monolingualgrammars.Our model is built on an earlier formulation ofthe equivalence constraint (Sankoff & Mainville,1986).
It is the production aspect here, how-ever, that allows us to achieve the all-importantwell-formedness of monolingual fragments, notstrictly guaranteed in the earlier work, and tomodel the essential unpredictability of code-switching.
The present version (Sankoff, 1998)has a more economical protocol for constituentlabeling and a more complete account of the co-incidence (or lack thereof) between word-levelswitching and constituent-level switching.
Wehave shown here how to weaken the strong con-ditions leading to Theorems 5 and 6 to accountfor other types of code-switching that have beenreported.We have allowed some degree of asymmetryin the model.
Borrowing can be unidirectionalwith respect o specific categories.
The sameis true for constituent insertion.
Further de-velopment will require weakening the one-to-one correspondence of the sets of rules, and ofthe grammatical and lexical categories of thetwo languages.
For example, the use of spe-cialized incorporation devices, like inflection-carrying dummy verbs, or techniques for mark-ing borrowed adverbs, typically belong to onelanguage and not the other.We have not treated the topic of interferencein this presentation.
Interference differs fromborrowing in several respects, in particular onthe level of intentionality - - interference is morelikely to be avoided or corrected by speakers,and is more likely to show up in communitieswhere the domain of monolingualism, and fre-quency of use of the affected language are re-stricted.
Nevertheless, interference has interest-ing consequences for our model in that it tendsto affect pre-sentential discourse markers, tags,conjunctions, prepositions and other grammat-ical morphemes rather than lexical items as isthe case for loanwords.
Both borrowing and in-terference can lead to the long-term establish-ment of lexical items, so that when interferenceis frequent, the distinction between the two be-comes of interest.AcknowledgementsThis work supported in part by grants fromthe Natural Sciences and Engineering ResearchCouncil and the Social Sciences and HumanitiesResearch Council.
The author is a Fellow of theCanadian Institute for Advanced Research.Re ferencesBackus, A.
(1996).
Two in One.
BilingualSpeech of Turkish Immigrants in the Nether-lands.
Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.Belazi, H. M., Rubin, E. J., and Toribio, A.J.
(1994).
Code switching and X-bar theory:The functional head constraint.
Linguistic In-quiry, 25, 221-237.Bentahila, A., and Davies, E. E. (1983).
Thesyntax of Arab-French code-switching.
Lin-gua, 59, 301-30.Di Sciullo, A.-M., Muysken, P., and Singh, R.(1986).
Government and code-mixing.
Jour-nal of Linguistics, 22, 1-24.Eliasson, S. (1991).
Models and constraints incode-switching theory.
Papers from the Work-shop on Constraints, Conditions and Mod-els, pp.
17-50.
Strasbourg: European ScienceFoundation.Eze, E. (1997) Aspects of language contact:a variationist perspective on code-switchingand borrowing in Igbo-English bilingual dis-course.
Ph.D. dissertation, University of Ot-tawa.20Gumperz, J., and Hernandez, E. (1969).
Cog-nitive aspects of bilingual communication.Working Paper Number 28, Language Behav-ior Research Laboratory.
University of Cali-fornia, Berkeley.Joshi, A. K. (1985).
Processing of sentenceswith intrasentential code-switching.
In D. R.Dowty, L. Karttunen and A.M. Zwicky (eds.
),Natural Language Parsing, pp.
190-205.
Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press.Labov, W. 0969).
Contraction, deletion and in-herent variability of the English copula.
Lan-guage, 45, 715-762.Lipski, J.
(1977).
Code-switching and the prob-lem of bilingual competence.
In M.
Paradis(ed.
), Aspects of Bilingualism, pp.
250-263.Columbia, SC: Hornbeam Press.Mahootian, S., and Santorini, B.
(1994).
Ad-nominal adjectives, codeswitching and lex-icalized TAG.
In A. Abeille, S. Aslanidesand O. Rambow (eds.
), 3e colloque interna-tional sur les grammaires d'arbres adjoints(TAG+3), Technical Report TALANA-RT-94-01, pp.
73-76.Meechan, M., and Poplack, S. (1995).
Orphancategories inbilingual discourse: Adjectiviza-tion strategies in Wolof-French and Fongbe-French.
Language Variation and Change, 7,169-194.Muysken, P. (1995) Code-switching and gram-matical theory.
In L. Milroy and P.
Muysken(eds.
), One speaker, two languages, pp.177-198.
Cambridge: Cambridge UniversityPress.Myers-Scotton, C. (1993).
Dueling Languages.Oxford: Clarendon Press.Na'/t M'Barek, M., and Sankoff, D. (1988).
Lediscours mixte arabe/fran~ais: des empruntsou des alternances de langue?
Revue Cana-dienne de Linguistique, 33(2), 143-154.Nishimura, M. (1986).
Intrasentential code-switching.
The case of language assignment.In J. Vaid (ed.
), Language Processing inBilinguals: psycholinguistic and neuropsy-chological perspectives, pp.
123-43.
Hillsdale,N J: Lawrence Erlbaum.Pandit, I.
(1990).
Grammaticality in code-switching.
In R. Jacobson (ed.
), Codeswitch-ing as a worldwide phenomenon, pp.
33-69.New York: Peter Lang.Pfaff, C. (1979).
Constraints on language mix-ing: intrasentential code-switching and bor-rowing in Spanish/English.
Language, 55,291-318.Poplack, S. (1978).
Syntactic structure and so-cial function of code-switching.
In R.
Duran,(ed.
), Latino Discourse and CommunicativeBehavior, pp.
169-184.
New Jersey: Ablex,Poplack, S. (1980).
Sometimes I'll start asentence in Spanish Y TERMINO ENESPAI~OL: Toward a typology of code-switching.
Linguistics, 18, 581-618.Poplack, S., and Meechan, M. (1995).
Pat-terns of language mixture: Nominal structurein Wolof-French and Fongbe-French bilingualdiscourse.
In L. Milroy and P. Muysken (eds.
),One speaker, two languages, pp.
199-232.Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Poplack, S., Sankoff, D., and Miller, C. (1987a).The social correlates and linguistic processesof lexical borrowing and assimilation.
Lin-guistics, 26(1), 47-104.Poplack, S., Wheeler, S., and Westwood,A.
(1987b).
Distinguishing language contactphenomena: Evidence from Finnish-Englishbilingualism.
In P. Lilius and M. Saari (eds.
),The Nordic languages and modern linguistics6, pp.
33-56.
University of Helsinki Press.Rivas, A.
(1981).
On the application oftransfor-mations to bilingual sentences.
Manuscript.Amherst, MA: Dept.
of Spanish and Por-tuguese, University of Massachusetts.Sankoff, D. (1988) Sociolinguistics and syntac-tic variation.
In F. Newmeyer (ed.
), Linguis-tics: the Cambridge Survey.
IV Language:the socio-cultural context, pp.
140-161.
Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press.Sankoff, D. (1998) A formal production-basedexplanation of the facts of code-switching.Bilingualism, Language and Cognition 1 (inpress).Sankoff, D., and Mainville, M. (1986).
Code-switching of context-free grammars.
Theoret-ical Linguistics, 13, 75-90.Sankoff, D., Poplack, S., and Vanniarajan, S.(1990).
The case of the nonce loan in Tamil.Language Variation and Change, 2(1), 71-101.Woolford, E. (1983).
Bilingual code-switchingand syntactic theory.
Linguistic Inquiry, 14,52-536.21
