Automat ic  Text  Summar izat ion  Based  onthe  G loba l  Document  Annotat ionKatashi NagaoSony  Computer  Science Laboratory  Inc.3 -14-13  H igash i -gotanda ,  Sh inagawa-ku ,Tokyo  141-0022, Japannagao~cs l .
sony .co .
jpKSiti HasidaE lect ro techn ica l  Laboratory1 -1 -4  Umezono,  Tukuba,Ibarak i  305-8568, Japanhas ida@et l .go .
jpAbst ractThe GDA (Global Document Annotation) projectproposes a tag set which allows machines to auto-matically infer the underlying semantic/pragmaticstructure of documents.
Its objectives are to pro-mote development and spread of NLP/AI  applica-tions to render GDA-tagged ocuments versatile andintelligent contents, which should nmtivate WWW(World Wide Web) users to tag their documents aspart of content authoring.
This paper discusses au-tomatic text summarization based on GDA.
Its mainfeatures are a domain/style-free algorithm and per-sonalization on summarization which reflects read-ers' interests and preferences.
In order to calcu-late the importance score of a text element, thealgorithm uses spreading activation on an intra-document network which connects text elements viathematic, rhetorical, mid coreferential relations.
Theproposed method is flexible enough to dynamicallygenerate summaries of various sizes.
A summarybrowser supporting personalization is reported aswell.1 I n t roduct ionThe WWW has opened up an era in which an un-restricted number of people publish their messageselectronically through their online documents.
How-ever, it is still very hard to automatically processcontents of those documents.
The reasons includethe following:1.
HTML (HyperText Markup Language) tagsmainly specify the physical layout of docu-ments.
They address very few content-relatedannotations.2.
Hypertext links cannot very nmch help readersrecognize the content of a document.3.
The WWW authors tend to be less carefulabout wording and readability than in tradi-tional printed media.
Currently there is no sys-tematic means for quality control in the WWW.Although HTML is a flexible tool that allows youto freely write and read messages on the WWW, itis neither very convenient to readers nor suitable forautomatic processing of contents.We have been developing an integrated platformfor document authoring, publishing~ and reuse bycombining natural language and WWW technolo-gies.
As the first step of our project, we defined anew tag set and developed tools for editing taggedtexts and browsing these texts.
The browser has thefunctionality of summarization and content-basedretrieval of tagged documents.This paper focuses on summarization based onthis system.
The main features of our summariza-tion method are a domain/style-free algorithm andpersonalization to reflect readers" interests and pref-erences.
This method naturally outperforms the tra-ditional summarization methods, which just pick outsentences highly scored on the basis of superficialclues such as word count, and so on.2 G loba l  Document  Annotat ionGDA (Global Document Annotation) is a chal-lenging project to make WWW texts machine-understandable on the basis of a new tag set,and to develop content-based presentation, retrieval.question-answering, summarization, and translationsystems with much higher quality than before.
GDAthus proposes an integrated global platform for elec-tronic content authoring, presentation, and reuse.The GDA tag set is based on XML (ExtensibleMarkup Language), and designed as compatible aspossible with HTML, TEI, EAGLES, and so forth.An example of a GDA-tagged sentence is as follows:<su><np sem=timeO>time</np><vp><v sem=flyl>flies</v><adp><ad sem=likeO>like</ad> <np>an<n sem=arrowO>arrow</n></np></adp></vp>.
</su><su> means sentential unit.<n>.
<np>.
<v>, <vp>.
<ad> and <adp> mean noun.917noun phrase, verb, verb phrase, adnoun or adverb(including preposition and postposition), and ad-nonfinal or adverbial phrase, respectively 1.The GDA initiative aims at having many WWWauthors annotate their on-line documents with thiscommon tag set so that machines can automaticallyrecognize the underlying semantic and pragmaticstructures of those documents much nmre easilythan by analyzing traditional HTML files.
A hugeamount of annotated ata is expected to emerge,which should serve not just as tagged linguistic cor-pora but also as a worldwide, self-extending knowl-edge base, mainly consisting of examples howinghow our knowledge is manifested.GDA has three main steps:1.
Propose an XML tag set which allows machinesto automatically infer the underlying structureof documents.2.
Pronmte development and spread of NLP /A Iapplications to turn tagged texts to versatileand intelligent contents.3.
Motivate thereby the authors of WWW files toannotate their documents using those tags.2.1 Themant ic /Rhetor i ca l  Re la t ionsThe te l  attribute encodes a relationship in whichthe current element stands with respect o the ele-ment that it semantically depends on.
Its value iscalled a relational term.
A relational term denotes abinary relation, which may be a thematic role suchas agent, patient, recipient, etc., or a rhetorical rela-tion such as cause, concession, etc.
Thus we conflatethematic roles and rhetorical relations here, becausethe distinction between them is often vague.
For in-stance, concession may be both intrasentential ndintersentential relation.Here is an example of a re1 attribute:<su ctyp=fd><name rel=agt>Tom</name><vp>came</vp>.
</su>ctyp=fd means that the first element<name rel=agt>Tom</name> d pends on the secondelement <vp>came</vp>.
re l=agt  means that Tomhas the agent role with respect o the event denotedby came.re1 is an open-class attribute, potentially encom-passing all the binary relations lexicalized in nat-ural languages.
An exhaustive listing of thematicroles and rhetorical relations appears impossible, aswidely recognized.
We are not yet sure about how1A more detailed description of the GDA tag set can befound at http ://~w.
etl.
go.
jp/etl/nl/GDA/tagset, html.many thematic roles and rhetorical relations are suf-ficient for engineering applications.
However.
theappropriate granulal~ty of classification will be de-termined by the current level of technology.2.2 Anaphora  and CoreferenceEach element may have an identifier as the value ofthe id attribute.
Anaphoric expression should havethe aria attr ibute with its antecedent's id value.
Anexample follows:<name id=l>John</name> beats<adp ana=l>his</adp> dog.A non-anaphoric coreference is marked by the c r fattribute, whose usage is the same as the ana at-tl~bute.When the coreference is at the level of type (kind.sort, etc.)
which the referents of the antecedentand the anaphor are tokens of, we use the cotypattribute as below:You bought <np id=ll>a car</np>.I bought <np cotyp=ll>one</np>, too.A zero anaphora is encoded by using the appro-priate relational term as an attr ibute name with thereferent's id value.
Zero anaphors of compulsory el-ements, which describe the internal structure of theevents represented by the verbs of adjectives are re-quired to be resolved.
Zero anaphors of optional ele-ments such as with reason and means roles may not.Here is an example of a zero anaphora concerningan optional thematic role ben (for beneficiary):Tom visited <name id=lll>Mary</name>.He <v ben=111>brought</v> a present.3 Text  Summar izat ionAs an example of a basic application of GDA, wehave developed an automatic text summarizationsystem.
Summarization generally requires deep se-mantic processing and a lot of background knowl-edge.
However, nmst previous works use several su-perficial clues and heuristics on specific styles or con-figurations of documents to summarize.For example, clues for determining the importanceof a sentence include (1) sentence length, (2) key-word count, (3) tense, (4) sentence type (such asfact, conjecture and assertion), (5) rhetorical rela-tion (such as reason and example), and (6) positionof sentence in the whole text.
Most of these are ex-tracted by a shallow processing of the text.
Such acomputation is rather robust.Present summarization systems (Watanabe, 1996:Hovy and Lin, 1997) use such clues to calculate animportance score for each sentence, choose sentences918according to the score, and simply put  the selectedsentences together  in order of their occurrences inthe original document.
In a sense, these systems aresuccessful enough to be practical,  and are based onreliable technologies.
However, the qual i ty of sum-marizat ion cannot  be improved beyond this basiclevel without any deep content-based processing.We propose a new summarizat ion method basedon GDA.
This method employs a spreading activa-tion technique (Hasida et al, 1987) to calculate theimportance values of elements in the text.
Since themethod does not employ any heuristics dependent  onthe domain and style of documents,  it is appl icableto any GDA-tagged documents.
The method alsocan tr im sentences in the summary because impor-tance scores are assigned to elements maller thansentences.A GDA-tagged document natural ly  defines anint ra-document  network in which nodes corre-spond to elements and links represent he seman-tic relations mentioned in the previous section.This network consists of sentence trees (syntact ichead-daughter  hierarchies of subsentent ia l  elementssuch as words or phrases), coreference/emaphoralinks, document /subd iv i s ion /paragraph nodes, andrhetorical relat ion links.Figure 1 shows a graphical  representat ion of theint ra-document  network.documentsubdivision ~ /~ v /l \paragraph /?J% U U U U U ?
* * *(optional) / ~ _sentence / \~  /~ ~ ~ .
.
.
.
n t .
.
.
.subsentent ia l (~ l l '~ l l (~3~ (~3 ~ .
.
.
.
linksegment j~% "~ ~ /~ -~ .
.
.
.
ref .
.
.
.
.
.. .
.
.linkFigure 1: Int ra-Document  NetworkThe summal izat ion  a lgor i thm is the following:1.
Spreading act ivat ion is performed in such away that  two elements have the same activa-tion value if they are coreferent or One of themis the syntact ic  head of the other.2.
The unmarked element with the highest activa-tion value is marked for inclusion in the sum-mary.3.
When an element is marked, other elementsl isted below are recursively marked ms well, unti lno more element may be marked.?
its head?
its antecedent?
its compulsory or a priori impor tantdaughters,  the values of whose relat ionalat t r ibutes are agt .
pat .
ob j .
pos,  cnt ,  cau,end, sbra, and so forth.?
the antecedent of a zero anaphor  in it withsome of the above values for the relat ionalat t r ibute4.
All marked elements in the int ra-docmnent  et-work are generated preserving the order of theirposit ions in the original document.5.
If  a size of the sunnnary reaches the user-specified value, then ternfinate; otherwise goback to Step 2.The following art icle of the Wal l  Street Journalwas used for testing this algor ithm.During its centennial year.
The Wall StreetJournal will report events of the past centurythat stand as milestones of American busi-ness history.
THREE COMPUTERS THATCHANGED the face of personal computingwere launched in 1977.
That year the Ap-ple II.
Commodore Pet and 'randy TRS cameto market.
The computers were crude by to-day's stmldards.
Apple II owners, for exam-ple.
had to use their television sets as screensand stored data on audiocassettes.
But AppleII was a major advance from Apple I, whichwas built in a garage by Stephen Wozniak andSteven Jobs for hobbyists uch as the Home-brew Computer Club.
In addition, the Ap-ple II was an affordable $1,298.
Crude asthey were, these early PCs triggered explosiveproduct development in desktop models for thehome and office.
Big mainframe computers forbusiness had been around for years.
But thenew 1977 PCs - unlike earlier built-from-kittypes such as the Altair, Sol and IMSAI - hadkeyboards and could store about two pages ofdata in their memories.
Current PCs are morethan 50 tinms faster and have memory capac-ity 500 times greater than their 1977 counter-parts.
There were many pioneer PC contrib-utors.
Will iam Gates and Paul Allen in 1975developed an early language-housekeeper sys-tem for PCs, and Gates became an industrybillionaire six years after IBM adapted one ofthese versions in 1981.
Alan F. Shugart, cur-rently chairman of Seagate Technology, led theteam that developed the disk drives for PCs.Dennis Hayes and Dale Heatherington, two At-lanta engineers, were co-developers of the in-ternal modems that allow PCs to share datavia the telephone.
IBM, the world leader incomputers, didn't offer its first PC until Au-gust 1981 as many other companies entered the919market.
Today.
PC shipments annually totalsome $38.3 billion world-wide.Here is a short, computer-generated summary ofthis sample article:THREE COMPUTERS THATCHANGED the face of personal computingwere launched.
Crude as they were, theseearly PCs triggered explosive product de-velopment.
Current PCs are more than 50times faster and have memory capacity 500times greater than their counterparts.The proposed method is flexible enough to dy-nmnically generate summaries of various sizes.
If alonger summary is needed, the user can change thewindow size of the summary browser, as describedin Section 3.1.
Then.
the sumnlary changes its sizeto fit into the new window.
An example of a longersummary follows:THREE COMPUTERS THATCHANGED the face of personal comput-ing were launched.
The Apple II, Com-nlodore Pet and Tandy TRS came to mar-ket.
The computers were crude.
Apple IIowners had to use their television sets andstored data on audiocassettes.
The Ap-ple II was an affordable $1.298.
Crude asthey were, these early PCs triggered explo-sive product development.
The new PCshad keyboards and could store about twopages of data in their memories.
CurrentPCs are more than 50 times faster and havememo~T capacity 500 times greater thantheir counterparts.
There were many pi-oneer PC contributors.
William Gates andPaul Allen developed an early language-housekeeper system, and Gates became anindustry billionaire after IBM adapted oneof these versions.
IBM didn't offer its firstPC.An observation obtained from this experiment isthat tags for coreferences and thematic and rhetori-cal relations are almost enough to make a summary.In particular, coreferences and rhetorical relationshelp summarization very much.GDA tags allow us to apply more sophisticatednatural anguage processing technologies to come upwith better summaries.
It is straightforward to in-corporate sentence generation technologies to para-phrase parts of the document, rather than just se-lecting or pruning them.
Annotations on anaphoracan be exploited to produce context-dependent para-phrases.
Also the summary could be itemized to fitin a slide presentation.3.1 Summary  BrowserWe developed a summary browser using a Java-capable WWW browser.
Figure 2 shows an examplescreen of the summary browser.1, .... ~!iDuring its centennial year The Wall Street Journal will report events ol the past century thatstand its milestones of American business history.
THREE COMRJTERS THAT CHANGED the!
face of personal computing were launched in | 977.
That year the Apple II, Commodore Petand Tandy TRS came to market.
The computers were crude by today's standards.
Apple Uowners, for ~?ample, had to use their television sets as scfeens and stored data oni audiocasset t es.
But II was a advance horn I, which built in Apple rllajof Apple was a garage byt Stephan Wozniak and Stevan Jobs for hobbyists such as the Homebrew Computer Club+ Inaddition, the Apple n was an affordable $1,298.
Crude as they were, these early I~:strl "ggered e~plo~ve product development in desktop models for the home and office_ B/gmainlrame co~nput ers for business had been around for yeats.
But the ~ 1977 PCs-- unlikeeadier built-from-kit types such as the Altair, Sol and IMSAI - had keyboards and could storeabout two pages of data in their memories.
Current PCs are more than 50 times faster andt have memory capacity SO0 times greater than their 1977 counteq~acts.
There were manypioneer PC contributors.
W~lliam Gates and Paul Allen in 197S devdoged an earlylanguage-housek eep~ system for PCS, and Gates became an industry billionaire six yearsalter IBM adapted one of these versions in 1981.
Alan F. Sbugart, currently chairman ol'Seagate Technology, led the team that developed the disk drives for PCs.
Dennis Hayes andDale Heatheriagton, two Atlanta engineers, were co-devolopef~ of the internal moderns thatallow PCs to share data via the telephone.
IBM, the wodd leader in computers, didn't offer itsf~s'lr PC lunta Al/nll~t 1 qR1 =?
m~m nthtl?
rnmnln i~ ~ntmt=~l th~ mlr~at Tnd=u P~ ...... .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.......... ....... .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
~,THREE" COMPUTERS THAT CHANGED the face of personal computing were launched.
Crude asi they were, these early PCs tnggered e~plosive product development.
Current PCs aee mote!
than 50 times taster and have memory capacity SO0 times greater than their counterparts.IFigure 2: Summary BrowserIt has the following functionalities:1.
A screen is divided into three parts (frames).One frame provides a user input form throughwhich you can select documents and type key-words.
The other frames are for displaying theoriginal document and its summary.2.
The frame for the summary text is resizableby sliding the boundary with the original doc-ument frame.
The size of the summary frameinfluences the size of the summary itself.
Thusyou can see the summary in a preferred size andchange the size in an easy and intuitive way.3.
The frame for the original document is mousesensitive.
You can select any element of text inthis frame.
This function is used for the cus-tomization of the summary, as described later.4.
HTML tags are also handled by the browser.So, images are viewed and hyperlinks are nian-aged both in the summary.
If a hyperlinkis clicked in the original document frame, thelinked document appears on the same frame.The hyperlinks are kept in the summary.4 Persona l i zat ionA good summary might depend on the backgroundknowledge of its creator.
It, also should change ac-920cording to the interests or preferences of its reader.Let us refer to the adaptation of the summariza-tion process to a particular user as personalization.GDA-based summarization can be easily personal-ized because our method is flexible enough to biasa summary toward the user's concerns.
You can se-lect any elements in the original document duringsummarization, to interactively provide informationconcerning your personal interests.We have been developing the following techniquesfor personalized summarization:?
Keyword-based customizationThe user can input any words of interest.The system relates those words with those inthe document using cooccurrence statistics ac-quired from a corpus and a dictionary such asWordNet (Miller, 1995).
The related words inthe document are assigned numeric values thatreflect closeness to the input words.
These val-ues are used in spreading activation for calcu-lating importance scores.?
Interactive custonfization by selecting any ele-ments from a documentThe user can mark any words, phrases, and sen-tences to be included in the summary.
The sum-mat t  browser allows the user to select those el-ements by pointing devices such as mouse andstylus pen.
The user can easily select elementsby clicking on them.
The click count corre-sponds to the level of elements.
That is, thefirst click means the word, the second the nextlarger element containing it, and so on.
The se-lected elements will have higher activation val-ues in spreading activation.?
Learning user interests by observation of WWWbrowsingThe summmization system can customize thesummary according to the user without any ex-plicit user inputs.
We implemented a learningmechanism for user personalization.
The mech-anism uses a weighted feature vector.
The fea-ture corresponds to the category or topic of doc-uments.
The category is defined according to aWWW directory such as Yahoo.
The topic isdetected using the summarization technique.Learning is roughly divided into data acquisi-tion and model nmdification.
The user's behav-ioral data is acquired by detecting her informa-tion access on the WWW.
This data includesthe time and duration of that information ac-cess and features related to that information.The first step of model modification is to esti-mate the degree of relevance between the inputfeature vector assigned to the information ac-cessed by the user and the model of the user'sinterests acquired fl'om previous data.
The sec-ond step is to adjust the weights of features inthe user model.5 Concluding RemarksWe have discussed the GDA project, which aims atsupporting versatile and intelligent contents.
Ourfocus in the present paper is one of its applicationsto automatic text summarization.
We are evaluatingour summarization method using online Japanese ar-ticles with GDA tags.
We are also extending textsummarization to that of hypertext.
For example, asmnmary of a hypertext document will include re-cursively embedding linked documents in summary,which should be useful for encyclopedic entries, too.Future work includes construction of a large-scaleGDA corpus and system evaluation by open exper-imentation.
GDA tools including a tagging editorand a browser will soon be publicly available on theWWW.
Our main current concern is interactive andintelligent presentation, as an extension of text sum-marization.
This may turn out to be a killer appli-cation of GDA.
because it does not just presupposerather small amount of tagged document but alsomakes the effect of tagging immediately visible tothe author.
We hope that our project revolutionizeglobal and intercultural communications.ReferencesK6iti Hasida, Syun Ishizaki, and Hitoshi Isahara.1987.
A connectionist approach to the generationof abstracts.
In Gerard Kempen, editor.
NaturalLanguage Generation: New Results in ArtificialIntelligence, Psychology, and Linguistics, pages149-156.
Martinus Nijhoff.Eduard Hovy and Chin Yew Lin.
1997.
Automatedtext summaxization i  SUMMARIST.
In Proceed-ings o/ A CL Workshop on Intelligent Scalable TextSummarization.George Miller.
1995.
WordNet: A lexical databasefor English.
Communications of the ACM,38(11):39-41.Hideo Watanabe.
1996.
A method for abstract-ing newspaper articles by using surface clues.
InProceedings o/ the Sixteenth International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics (COLING-96), pages 974-979.921
