DiMLex: A lexicon of discourse markersfor text generation and understandingManfred Stede and Car la  UmbachTechnische Universitgt BerlinProjektgruppe KITSekr.
FR 6-10Franklinstr.
28/29D-10587 Berlin, Germanyemail: {stede\[umbach}@cs.tu-berlin.deAbst ractDiscourse markers ('cue words') are lexicalitems that signal the kind of coherence relationholding between adjacent text spans; for exam-ple, because, since, and for this reason are dif-ferent markers for causal relations.
Discoursemarkers are a syntactically quite heterogeneousgroup of words, many of which are traditionallytreated as function words belonging to the realmof grammar rather than to the lexicon.
But fora single discourse relation there is often a setof similar markers, allowing for a range of para-phrases for expressing the relation.
To capturethe similarities and differences between these,and to represent them adequately, we are devel-oping DiMLex, a lexicon of discourse markers.After describing our methodology and the kindof information to be represented in DiMLex, webriefly discuss its potential applications in bothtext generation and understanding.1 IntroductionAssuming that text can be formally described(and represented) by means of discourse rela-tions holding between adjacent portions of text(e.g., \[Mann, Thompson 1988\]), we use the termdiscourse marker for those lexical items that (inaddition to non-lexical means uch as punctua-tion, aspectual and focus shifts, etc.)
can sig-nal the presence of a relation at the linguisticsurface.
Typically, a discourse relation is asso-ciated with a wide range of such markers; con-sider, for instance, the following variety of CON-CESSIONS, which all express the same underly-ing propositional content.
The words treatedhere as discourse markers are underlined.We were in SoHo; {nevertheless\[ nonethelessI however \] still \] yet}, we found a cheap bar.We were in SoHo, but we found a cheap baranyway.Despite the fact that we were in SoHo, wefound a cheap bar.Notwithstanding the fact that we were inSoHo, we found a cheap bar.Although we were in SoHo, we found a cheapbar.If one accepts these sentences as paraphrases,then the various discourse markers all need to beassociated with the information that they sig-nal a concessive relationship between the twopropositions involved.
Next, the fine-graineddifferences between similar markers need to berepresented; one such difference is the degree ofspecificity: for example, but can mark a generalCONTRAST or  a more specific CONCESSION.
~,~ebelieve that a dedicated iscourse marker lexi-con holding this kind of information can serveas a valuable resource for natural anguage pro-cessing.
Our efforts in constructing that lexiconare described in Section 2.From the perspective of text generation, otall paraphrases listed above are equally felici-tous in specific contexts.
In order to choosethe most appropriate variant, a generator needsknowledge about he fine-grained differences be-tween similar markers for the same relation.Furthermore, it needs to account for the interac-tions between marker choice and other genera-tion decisions and hence needs knowledge aboutthe syntagmatic constraints associated with dif-ferent markers.
We will discuss this perspectivein Section 3.From the perspective of text understanding,a sophisticated system should be able to derivethe discourse relations holding between adjacenttext spans, and also to notice the additionalsemantic and pragmatic implications temmingfrom the usage of a particular discourse marker.We will briefly characterize such applications inSection 4.12382 Building a Discourse MarkerLex icon2.1 The  ideaThe traditional distinction between contentwords and function words (or open-class andclosed-class items) relies on the stipulation thatthe former have their "own" meaning indepen-dent of the context in which they are used,whereas the latter assume meaning only in con-text.
Then, content words are assigned to therealm of the lexicon, whereas function words aretreated as a part of grammar.For dealing with discourse markers, we do notregard this distinction as particularly helpful,though.
As we have illustrated above and willelaborate below, these words can carry a widevariety of semantic and pragmatic overtones,which render the choice of a marker meaning-driven, as opposed to a mere consequence ofstructural decisions.
Furthermore, a number oflexical relations that are customary used to as-sign structure to the universe of "open class"lexical items, most prominently synonymy, ple-sionymy ("near-synonymy"), antonymy, hy-ponymy and polysemy, can be applied to dis-course markers as well:?
Synonymy: It can be argued that truesynonyms do not exist at all.
However,the German words obzwar and obschon(both more formal variants of obwohl = al-though) certainly come very close to beingsynonymous.?
Plesionymy: although and though, accord-ing to Martin \[1992\], differ in formality; al-though and even though differ in terms ofemphasis.?
Antonomy: if/unless, according to Barker\[1994\], have opposite polarity, as in He willnot attend unless he finishes his paper vs.He will attend if he finishes his paper.?
Hyponomy: Some markers are more spe-cific than others; recall the example of butgiven above.
Knott and Mellish \[1996\] dealwith the issue of "taxonomizing" discoursemarkers.?
Polysemy: Other than being more or lessspecific, some markers can signal quite dif-ferent relations; e.g., while can be used forTEMPORAL CO-OCCURRENCE, and also forCONTRAST.Accordingly, we propose that the proper placefor describing discourse markers is a dedicatedlexicon that provides a classification of theirsyntactic, semantic and pragmatic features andcharacterizes the relationships between similarmarkers.
To this end, our group is developinga Discourse Marker LEXicon (DiMLex), whichaims at assembling the various information as-sociated with markers and describing it on auniform level of representation.
Our initial fo-cus is on German, but English will also be atarget language.2.2 Methodo logyMethodological considerations pertain to thetwo tasks of determining the set of words weregard as discourse markers and thus are to beincluded in the lexicon, and determining the lex-ical entries for these words.Finding the "right" set of discourse markersis not an easy task, since the common lexico-graphic practice of taking part of speech as theprimary criterion for inclusion or exclusion doesnot apply.
Knott and Mellish \[1996\] provide anapt summary of the situation.
Their 'test forrelational phrases' is a good start, but gearedtowards the English language (we are investigat-ing German as well), and furthermore it catchesonly items relating clauses; in Despite the heavyrain, we went for a walk it would not detect acue phrase.To arrive at a more comprehensive s t, webegan by consulting standard grammars uch'as Quirk et al \[1972\] and Helbig and Buscha\[1991\], which provide descriptions of functionwords grouped according to semantic lass - -but these are far from "complete".
A verygood source for German is \[Brausse t al.
inprep.\], which investigates a huge set of connec-tives from a grammatical viewpoint.As for determining lexical descriptions, theresearch literature offers a large number of help-ful, even though quite heterogeneous, sources.There are several detailed studies of individ-ual groups of markers, such as \[Vander Linden,Martin 1995\] for PURPOSE markers.
Besides,the Linguistics literature offers fine-grainedanalyses of individual markers, which are far toonumerous to list.
We are drawing upon all thesesources, trying to place them in a single unifiedframework.
The overall goal can be character-ized as the aim to synthesize two strands of re-1239search that so far are rather disconnected:?
"Top-down": Text linguistics considersmarkers as a means to signal coherence,and provides us with insights on the se-mantic and pragmatic properties of markerclasses.?
"Bottom-up": Grammars as well as thelinguistic research literature provide syn-tactic, semantic and stylistic properties ofindividual markers, comparative studies ofrelated markers, etc.2.3 The  lexiconAlthough our classification of lexical features isstill under development, we give here a tenta-tive list of such features in order to illustrate therange of phenomena under consideration.
Thelist is loosely ordered from syntactic to seman-tic and pragmatic features; for now, we do notexplicitly assign such categories.The part of speech of a marker (conjunctive,subordinating conjunction, coordinating con-junction, preposition) determines the possibil-ities of positioning the marker within the con-stituent: conjunctives (especially the German'Konjunktionaladverbien') can float to variouspositions, whereas the positions of others arefixed.
The linear order of the conjuncts is fixedfor some markers and flexible for others; this isindependent of the aforementioned two features.Some markers how a specific behavior towardsnegation, e.g., the German sondern (which cor-responds to certain uses of but) requires an ex-plicit negation in the antecedent clause.
Somemarkers impose constraints on tense and aspectof the clauses, either by requiring specific tem-poral/aspectual ttributes in one clause, or byconstraining the relationship between the twoconjuncts (e.g., after).Several grammars uggest classifications ofmarkers according to the semantic relation theyexpress: adversative, alternative, substitution,causal, conditional, etc.
Within these groups,some markers exhibit opposite polarity, i.e.,have an incorporated negation or not (e.g., ifversus unless).
Commentability s a feature thatoften distinguishes a single marker within a se-mantic class in that it can be negated or fo-cused on by scalar particles (e.g., in German,the causal weil is commentable, whereas dennis not).Moving towards pragmatics, the intention be-hind using a marker can vary.
A well-known ex-ample is the contrast between German aber andsondern (in English, they both correspond tobut), where the former merely states a contrast,whereas the latter corrects an assumption onthe hearer's ide (e.g., \[Helbig, Buscha 1991\]).Another dimension concerns the presuppositionsassociated with markers; a well-known case isthe contrast between because and since, whereonly the latter marks the subsequent proposi-tion as given.
The German CAUSE markers welland denn differ in terms of the illocutions theyconnect: the former applies to propositions, thelatter to epistemic judgements \[Brausse et al, inprep.\].
Certain very similar markers differ onlystylistically.
One German example was givenabove, and another one is the English notwith-standing, which is more formal than despite butmoreover is more flexible in positioning, as itcan be postponed.The final but crucial feature to be mentionedhere is the discourse relation expressed by amarker.
RST \[Mann, Thompson 1988\] offersan inspiring theory of such relations, but we donot fully subscribe to this account.
Rather, wethink that the relationship between semantic re-lations (see above) and pragmatic ones needs tobe clarified (e.g., lasher 1993\]), which can bedone by teasing apart the various dimensionsincoporated in RST's definitions, for examplein the spirit of Sanders et al \[1992\].Once the range of dimensions has been de-scribed, we will deal with questions of repre-sentation; we envisage using some inheritance-based formalism that allows for a compactrepresentation of individual descriptions, hy-ponymic relations between them, and polyse-mous entries.3 Us ing  D iMLex  in text  generat ionPresent text generation systems are typicallynot very good at choosing discourse mark-ers.
Even though a few systems have incor-porated some more sophisticated mappings forspecific relations (e.g., in DRAFTER \[Paris etal.
1995\]), there is still a general tendency totreat discourse marker selection as a task tobe performed as a "side effect" by the gram-mar, much like for other function words such asprepositions.1240To improve this situation, we propose to viewdiscourse marker selection as one subtask of thegeneral lexical choice process, so that - -  to con-tinue the example given above - -  one or an-other form of CONCESSION can be produced inthe light of the specific utterance parametersand the context.
Obviously, marker selectionalso includes the decision whether to use anymarker at all or leave the relation implicit (e.g.,\[Di Eugenio et al 1997\]).
When these decisionscan be systematically controlled, the text canbe tailored much better to the specific goals ofthe generation process.The generation task imposes a particular viewof the information coded in DiMLex: the en-try point to the lexicon is the discourse relationto be realized, and the lookup yields the rangeof alternatives.
But many markers have moresemantic and pragmatic onstraints associatedwith them, which have to be verified in thegenerator's input representation for the markerto be a candidate.
Then, discourse markersplace (predominantly s ntactic) constraints ontheir immediate context, which affects the in-teractions between marker choice and other re-alization decisions.
And finally, markers thatare still equivalent after evaluating these con-straints are subject to a choice process thatcan utilize preferential (e.g.
stylistic) criteria.Therefore, under the generation view, the infor-mation in DiMLex is grouped into the followingthree classes:- -  Applicability conditions: The necessaryconditions for using a discourse marker, i.e., thefeatures or structural configurations that needto be present in the input specification.- -  Syntagmatic onstraints: The constraintsregarding the combination of a marker and theneighbouring constituents; most of them aresyntactic and appear at the beginning of the listgiven above (part of speech, linear order, etc.
).- -  Paradigmatic features: Features that labelthe differences between similar markers haringthe same applicability conditions, such as stylis-tic features and degrees of emphasis.Very briefly, we see discourse marker choiceas one aspect of the sentence planning task(e.g., \[Wanner, novy 1996\]).
In order to ac-count for the intricate interactions betweenmarker choice and other generation decisions,the idea is to employ DiMLex as a declara-tive resource supporting the sentence planningprocess, which comprises determining sentenceboundaries and sentence structure, linear order-ing of constituents (e.g., thematizations), andlexical choice.
All these decisions are heavilyinterdependent, and in order to produce trulyadequate text, the various realization optionsneed to be weighted against each other (in con-trast to a simple, fixed sequence of making thetypes of decisions), which presupposes a flexiblecomputational mechanism based on resourcesas declarative as possible.
This generation ap-proach is described in more detail in a separatepaper \[Grote, Stede 1998\].4 Us ing  D iMLex  in textunders tand ingIn text understanding, discourse markers erveas cues for inferring the rhetorical or seman-tic structure of the text.
In the approach pro-posed by Marcu \[1997\], for example, the pres-ence of discourse markers is used to hypothe-size individual textual units and relations hold-ing between them.
Then, the overall discoursestructure tree is built using constraint satisfac-tion techniques.
For tasks of this kind, DiMLexcan supply the set of cue words to be lookedfor and support the initial disambiguation ofcues in the text.
Depending on the depth ofthe syntactic and semantic analysis carried outby the text understanding system, different fea-tures provided by DiMLex can be taken intoaccount.
Certain structural configurations canbe tested without any deep understanding; forinstance, the German marker w~ihrend is gen-erally ambiguous between a CONTRAST and aTEMPORALCOOCCURRENCE reading, but whenfollowed by a noun phrase, only the latter read-ing is available (wiihrend corresponds not onlyto the English while but also to during).Similarly, we envisage applications of DiM-Lex for dialogue processing.
For example,within the VERBMOBIL project, Stede andSchmitz \[1997\] have analysed the various prag-matic functions that German discourse parti-cles fulfill in dialogue; many of these particlesare discourse markers, and DiMLex can providevaluable information for their disambiguation,which in turn facilitates the recognition of un-derlying speech acts.12415 Summary and OutlookDiscourse markers, words that signal the pres-ence of a coherence relation between adjacenttext spans, play important roles in human textunderstanding and production.
Due to their be-ing classified as "non-content words" or "func-tion words", however, they have not receivedsufficient attention in natural language process-ing yet.
In response to this situation, we are as-sembling pieces of information on German andEnglish discourse markers from grammars, dic-tionaries, and the linguistics research literature.This information is classified and organized intoa discourse marker lexicon, DiMLex.The first phase of our project runs until mid-1999.
At present, we are on the theoreticalside focusing our attention on German CON-TRAST and CONCESSION markers; on the imple-mentational side, we have assembled a genera-tion testbed that allows for exploring the role ofDiMLex in producing paragraph-size text.
Bythe end of the first phase, we plan to have com-pleted a system that produces German and En-glish text, with a prototypical DiMLex specifiedfor contrastive markers.
For a potential follow-up phase of the project, we envisage enlargingDiMLex to other groups of markers; workingout systematic lexical representations within asuitable formalism; and giving more attentionto the requirements for text understanding inaddition to those of generation.Re ferencesN.
Asher.
Reference to abstract objects in Discourse.Dordrecht: Kluwer, 1993.K.
Barker.
"Clause-level relationship analysis in theTANKA system."
Technical report, Dept.
of Com-puter Science, University of Ottawa, TR-94-07,1994.U.
Brausse, E. Breindl-Hiller, R. Pasch.
"Hand-buch der deutschen Konnektoren."
Institut fiirdeutsche Sprache, Mannheim.
In preparation.B.
Di Eugenio, J. Moore, M. Paolucci.
"Learningfeatures that predict cue usage."
In:.
Proceedingsof the 35th Annual Meeting of the ACL and 8thConference of the European Chapter of the ACL,Madrid, July 1997.B.
Grote, M. Stede.
"Discourse marker choice in sen-tence planning."
To appear in: Proceedings of the9th International Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, Niagara-on-the-lake/Canada, 1998.G.
Helbig, J. Buscha.
Deutsche Grammatik: EinHandbuch f~r den AusMnderunterricht.
Berlin,Leipzig: Langenscheidt, Verlag Enzyklop~.die,1990.A.
Knott, C. Mellish.
"A feature-based account ofthe relations ignalled by sentence and clause con-nectives."
In: Language and Speech 39 (2-3), 1996.W.
Mann, S. Thompson.
"Rhetorical structure the-ory: Towards a functional theory of text organi-zation."
In: TEXT, 8:243-281, 1988D.
Marcu.
"The rhetorical parsing of natural lan-guage text."
In: Proceedings of the 35th AnnualMeeting of the ACL and 8th Conference of the Eu-ropean Chapter of the ACL, Madrid, July 1997.J.
Martin.
English Text - System and Structure.Philadelphia/Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 1992.C.
Paris, K. Vander Linden, M. Fischer, A. Hart-ley, L. Pemberton, R. Power, D. Scott.
"A sup-port tool for writing multilingual instructions.
"In: Proceedings of the Fourteenth InternationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-95), Montreal, 1995.R.
Quirk, S. Greenbaum, G. Leech, J. Svartvik.A Grammar of Contemporary English.
Harlow:Longman, 1992 (20th ed.)T.
Sanders, W. Spooren, L. Nordman.
"Towards ataxonomy of coherence relations."
In: DiscourseProcesses 15, 1992.M.
Stede, B. Schmitz.
"Discourse particles and rou-tine formulas in spoken language translation."
In:Proceedings of the ACL/ELSNET Workshop onSpoken Language Translation, Madrid, 1997.K.
Vander Linden, J. Martin.
"Expressing rhetoricalrelations in instructional text" In: ComputationalLinguistics 21(1):29-58, 1995.L.
Wanner, E. Hovy.
"The HealthDoc sentence plan-ner."
In: Proceedings of the Eighth InternationalWorkshop on Natural Language Generation, Her-stmonceux Castle, June 1996.1242
