Integrating Text Plans for Conciseness and Coherence*Ter rence  Harvey  and Sandra  Carber ryDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of DelawareNewark, DE 19716{harvey, carberry}@cis.udel.eduAbst ractOur experience with a critiquing system showsthat when the system detects problems with theuser's performance, multiple critiques are oftenproduced.
Analysis of a corpus of actual cri-tiques revealed that even though each individ-ual critique is concise and coherent, the set ofcritiques as a whole may exhibit several prob-lems that detract from conciseness and coher-ence, and consequently assimilation.
Thus atext planner was needed that could integrate thetext plans for individual communicative goals toproduce an overall text plan representing a con-cise, coherent message.This paper presents our general rule-basedsystem for accomplishing this task.
The sys-tem takes as input a set of individual text plansrepresented as RST-style trees, and producesa smaller set of more complex trees represent-ing integrated messages that still achieve themultiple communicative goals of the individualtext plans.
Domain-independent rules are usedto capture strategies across domains, while thefacility for addition of domain-dependent rulesenables the system to be tuned to the require-ments of a particular domain.
The system hasbeen tested on a corpus of critiques in the do-main of trauma care.1 Overv iewMany natural anguage systems have been de-veloped to generate coherent text plans (Mooreand Paris, 1993; Hovy, 1991; Wanner and Hovy,1996; Zukerman and McConachy, 1995).
How-ever, none has the ability to take a set of inde-pendently generated yet inter-related text plansand produce integrated plans that realize all ofthe communicative goals in a concise and coher-ent manner.RTPI  (Rule-based Text Plan Integrator) wasdesigned to perform this task.
The need forcoherence requires that the system be able to* This work was supported by the National Library ofMedicine under grant R01-LM-05764-01.
We thank Bon-nie Webber and John Clarke for their suggestions andadvice during the course of this research.identify and resolve conflict across multiple, in-dependent text plans, and exploit relations be-tween communicative goals.
Conciseness re-quires the ability to aggregate and subsumecommunicative goals.
Although our work wasmotivated by the need to produce coherent, in-tegrated messages from the individual critiquesproduced by a decision support system for emer-gency center trauma care, this same task willarise in future systems as they make use of in-dependent modules that need to communicatewith a user.
Thus the system should have sim-ple, domain-independent rules, but should alsobe flexible enough to allow the addition of rulesspecific to the domain at hand.This paper describes RTPI  and our initialimplementation that works with the kinds oftext plans representative of a critiquing system.While our examples are taken from the domainof trauma care, the domain-independent rulesmake the system applicable to other domains ofcritiquing and instruction as well.
The moti-vation behind RTP I  is presented in Section 2,and Section 3 contrasts it with other work.Then we describe the system's parameters thatallow flexible response in multiple nvironments(Section 4).
The heart of the system is RTPTsdomain-independent rule base (Section 5) forintegrating text plans.
The implemented algo-rithm and the results of its application are pre-sented last.2 Mot ivat ionTraumAID (Webber et al, 1992) is a decisionsupport system for addressing the initial defini-tive management of multiple trauma.
Trauma-TIQ (Gertner and Webber, 1996) is a modulethat infers a physician's plan for managing pa-tient care, compares it to TraumAID's plan, andcritiques significant differences between them.TraumaTIQ recognizes four classes of differ-ences: errors of omission, errors of commission,scheduling errors, and procedure choice errors.Experimentation with TraumaTIQ showed thatwhen the physician's plan is deficient, severalproblems are generally detected, and thus mul-tiple critiques are independently produced.512We analyzed 5361 individual critiques com-prising 753 critique sets produced by Trauma-TIQ on actual cases of trauma care.
A critiqueset represents he critiques that are produced ata particular point in a case.
While each critiquewas coherent and concise in isolation, we foundseveral problems within critique sets: some cri-tiques detracted from others in the critique set;some would make more sense if they took ex-plicit account of other critiques appearing ear-lier in the set; and there was informational over-lap among critiques.Our analysis revealed 22 common patternsof inter-related critiques, each pattern coveringsome subset of a critique set.
While we initiallydeveloped a domain-dependent system, Trau-maGEN, that operated irectly on the logicalform of the critiques produced by TraumaTIQ,we noted that many of the patterns were moregenerally applicable, and that the problems wewere addressing would also arise in other sophis-ticated systems that distribute their processingacross multiple independent modules, each ofwhich may need to communicate with the user.While such systems could be designed to tryto prevent problems of this kind from arising,the result would be less modular, more complex,and more difficult to extend.Thus we developed RTPI, a system for con-structing a set of integrated RST-style textplans from a set of individual text plans.
RTPIcontains a set of domain-independent rules,along with adjustable parameters that deter-mine when and how rules are invoked.
In ad-dition, RTPI  allows the addition of domain-dependent rules, so the system can account forinteractions and strategies particular to a do-main.3 Other  WorkThe idea of domain-independent text planningrules is not new.
Appelt (1985) used "inter-actions typical of linguistic actions" to designcritics for action subsumption i  KAMP.
REVI-SOR (Callaway and Lester, 1997) used domain-independent operators for revision of a text planfor explanation.
Because our rules operate onfull RST-style text plans that include commu-nicative goals, the rules can be designed to in-tegrate the text plans in ways that still satisfythose goals.The Sentence Planner (Wanner and Hovy,1996) uses rules to refine a single initial tree rep-resentation.
In contrast, RTPI  operates on setsof complete, independent text plan trees.
Andwhile REVISOR handles clause aggregation,and Sentence Planner emoves redundancies byaggregating neighboring expressions, neither ofthem addresses the aggregation of communica-tive goals (often requiring reorganization), theTraumaTIQ critiques:Caution: check for medication allergies.anddo a laparotomy immediately to treat theintra-abdominal injury.Consider checking for medication allergiesnow to treat a possible GI tract injury.Please remember to check .for medication al-lergies before you give antibiotics.Message from RTPI  integrated plan:Caution: check for medication allergies totreat the intra-abdominal injury and a possi-ble GI tract injury, and do it before giving an-tibiotics.
Then do a laparotomy to completetreating the intra-abdominal injury.Figure 1: Result of communicative goal aggre-gation.revision and integration of text plans to removeconflict, or the exploiting of relations betweencommunicative goals as done by RTPI.
Simi-larly, WISHFUL (Zukerman and McConachy,1995) includes an optimization phase duringwhich it chooses the optimal way to achieve aset of related communicative goals.
However,the system can choose to eliminate propositionsand does not have to deal with potential conflictwithin the information to be conveyed.4 System ParametersAlthough RTPI's rules are intended to bedomain-independent, environmental factorssuch as the purpose of the messages and thesocial role of the system affect how individualtext plans should be integrated.
For example,if the system's purpose is to provide directionsfor performing a task, then an ordered set ofactions will be acceptable; in contrast, if thesystem's purpose is decision support, with theuser retaining responsibility for the selectedactions, then a better organization will be onein which actions are grouped in terms of theobjectives they achieve (see Section 5.1.1).Similarly, in some environments it might bereasonable to resolve conflict by omittingcommunicative goals that conflict with the sys-tem's action recommendations, while in otherenvironments such omission is undesirable (seeSection 5.1.2).RTPI  has a set of system parameters thatcapture these environmental f ctors.
These pa-rameters affect what rules are applied, and insome cases how they are applied.
They allowcharacteristics of the output text plans to betailored to broad classes of domains, giving thesystem the flexibility to be effective over a widerange of problems.5135 The  Ru le -BaseRTPTs input consists of a set of text plans,each of which has a top-level communicativegoal.
Rhetorical Structure Theory (Mann andThompson, 1987) posits that a coherent extplan consists of segments related to one an-other by rhetorical relations such as MOTIVA-TION or BACKGROUND.
Each text plan pre-sented to RTPI  is a tree structure in whichindividual nodes are related by RST-style re-lations.
The top-level communicative goal foreach text plan is expressed as an intended effecton the user's mental state (Moore, 1995), suchas (GOAL USER (DO ACTION27)), The kinds of goalsthat RTPI  handles are typical of critiquing sys-tems, systems that provide instructions for per-forming a task, etc.
These goals may consist ofgetting the user to perform actions, refrain fromperforming actions, use an alternate method toachieve a goal, or recognize the temporal con-straints on actions.Rules are defined in terms of tree specifica-tions and operators, and are stylistically simi-lar to the kinds of rules proposed in (Wannerand Hovy, 1996).
When all the tree specifica-tions are matched, the score function of the ruleis evaluated.
The score function is a heuristicspecific to each rule, and is used to determinewhich rule instantiation has the best potentialtext realization.
Scores for aggregation rules,for example, measure the opportunity to re-duce repetition through aggregation, subsump-tion, or pronominal reference, and penalize forparagraph complexity.Once a rule instantiation is chosen, the sys-tem performs any substitutions, pruning, andmoving of branches pecified by the rule's op-erators.
The rules currently in use operate ontext plan trees in a pairwise fashion, and re-cursively add more text plans to larger, alreadyintegrated plans.5.1 Classes of  RulesRTPI  has three classes of rules, all of whichproduce an integrated text plan from separatetext plans.
The classes of rules correlate withthe three categories of problems that we identi-fied from our analysis of TraumaTIQ's critiques,namely, the need to: 1) aggregate communica-tive goals to achieve more succinct ext plans;2) resolve conflict among text plans; and 3) ex-ploit the relationships between communicativegoals to enhance coherence.5.1.1 Aggregat lonOur analysis of TraumaTIQ's output showedthat one prevalent problem was informationaloverlap, i.e.
the same actions and objectivesoften appeared as part of several different in-put text plans, and thus the resulting messages( N  .
'A3,A4\]))(Recommend User {AI,A2,A3}) (Pefsuad~U (Do U (AI,A2,A3.A4}))Jo A I,A2, and A3 |N(Mi)llvaticm \[AI.A2.A3.A4} (G2})(Bel User ( Pan-of  ( A I ,A2.A3,A4 ) { G2 ) )1(Inform User (Pan-of {AI,A2,A3,A4} {G21))as l~ext of G$.
~ ^31))(Recommend User {AO}) (Persuaded U (~o U {A0,A2.A3}))De AO,A2, a*~ AJ(Molivafio~( A0,A2.A3 \] \[GI 1)(Bel User (Pan-~ {A0,A2.A3} \[GI \]))\[\[Inftwrn User (Pan-of {A0,A2,A3} (GI }))as part of Gl.Figure 2: Input to RTPI  (see Figure 3).appear epetitious.
Aggregation of the commu-nicative goals associated with these actions andobjectives allows RTPI  to make the messagemore concise.Aggregation of overlapping communicativegoals is not usually straightforward, however,and often requires substantial reorganizing ofthe trees.
Our approach was to draw on the or-dered, multi-nuclear SEQUENCE relation of RST.We posited that separate plans with overlappingcommunicative goals could often be reorganizedas a sequence of communicative goals in a sin-gle plan.
The recommended actions can be dis-tributed over the sequentially related goals aslong as the new plan captures the relationshipsbetween the actions and their motivations givenin the original plans.For example, one complex class of aggrega-tion is the integration of text plans that haveoverlapping actions or objectives, but also con-tain actions and objectives that do not overlap.When those that overlap can be placed togetheras part of a valid sequence, a multi-part messagecan be generated.
RTPI  produces an integratedtext plan comprised of sequentially related seg-ments, with the middle segment conveying theshared actions and their collected motivations.The other segments convey the actions thattemporally precede or follow the shared actions,and are also presented with their motivations.For example (Fig.
5), suppose that one textplan has the goal of getting the user to performactions A0, A2, and A3 to achieve G1, while asecond text plan has a goal of getting the userto perform A1,A2, A3, and A4 to achieve G2.Figure 3 presents the text plan resulting fromthe application of this rule.
Realization of thistext plan in English produces the message:Do AO as part of G1, and A1 as part of G2.Next do A2 and A3 to address both of thesegoals.
Then do A4 to complete G2.514(G~Jal U (DO U |h0, AI, A2, A3.
A4)))( C'~);bl U (IA) U {A2, A3|))" (Goal U (Do U (A41)) (?~u(Dou c^0~,,) seo ~ sEo(ooal UL IMU (A0})) SEQ do m ~ ,0(inform U~r (~..of {A2~3} (G),?2),) (Infr, nn Or,~r (End {A4) {G2}))(Bel Us~'r ( P,m-~ {A0} {GI })) (kl Ur, er (P~N6 (A l ) (O2|)) ~ dm~Idrr, baA off,m*,# ge~/,v.
~ comeuu G2.
(Inform User (Pro't-of {AO} (GI })) (lnfocm Usct (F~l-of {AI ) {G2}))st Fart of ?
l  ez lmr# o\] G2.Figure 3: Result of a complex aggregation rule (see Figure 2).This kind of aggregation is especially appropri-ate in a domain (such as trauma care) wherethe clause re-ordering normally applied to en-able aggregation (e.g.
Sentence Planner) is re-stricted by the partial ordering of sequenced in-structions.RTPI can also handle aggregation when ac-tions or objectives are shared between differ-ent kinds of communicative goals.
The bot-tom part of Figure 1 is the text realized froma text plan that was produced by the appli-cation of two rules to three initial text plans:one rule that applies to trees of the same form,and one that applies to two distinct forms.
Thefirst rule aggregates the communicative goal(GOAL USER (DO USER check_med_allergies)) that existsin two of the text plans.
The second rule looksfor overlap between the communicative goal ofgetting the user to do an action and the goal ofhaving the user recognize a temporal constrainton actions.
The application of these two rulesto the text plans of the three initial messagesshown in the top part of Figure 1 creates theintegrated text plan shown in Figure 4 whoseEnglish realization appears in the bottom partof Figure 1.RTPI's parameter settings capture aspects ofthe environment in which the messages will begenerated that will affect the kind of aggrega-tion that is most appropriate.
The settings foraggregation determine whether RTPI empha-sizes actions or objectives.
In the latter case(appropriate in the trauma decision-support en-vironment), an arbitrary limit of three is placedon the number of sequentially related segmentsin a multi-part message, though each segmentcan still address multiple goals.
This allows thereorganization f communicative goals to enableaggregation while maintaining focus on objec-tives.5.1.2 Resolv ing Confl ictThe ability to recognize and resolve conflict isrequired in a text planner because both the ap-pearance and resolution of conflict can be theresult of text structure.
RTPI identifies and re-solves a class of domain-independent conflict,with the resolution strategies dependent uponthe social relationship between the user and thesystem.
In addition, the system allows the userto add rules for domain-specific classes of con-flict.One class of conflict hat can best be resolvedat the text planning level results from implicitmessages in text.
Resolving conflict of this kindwithin independent modules of a critiquing sys-tem would require sharing extensive knowledge,thereby violating modularity concepts and mak-ing the planning process much more complex.For example, suppose that the user has con-veyed an intention to achieve a particular objec-tive by performing act Au.
One system modulemight post the communicative goal of gettingthe user to recognize that act Ap must precedeAu, while a different module posts the goal ofgetting the user to achieve the objective by ex-ecuting As instead of Au.
While each of thesecommunicative goals might be well-motivatedand coherent in isolation, together they are in-coherent, since the first presumes that Au willbe executed, while the second recommends re-tracting the intention to perform Au.
A textplanner with access to both of these top-levelcommunicative goals and their text plans canrecognize this implicit conflict and revise andintegrate the text plans to resolve it.There are many ways to unambiguously re-solve this class of implicit conflict.
Strategy se-lection depends on the social relationship be-tween the system and the user, as captured bythree of RTPTs parameter settings.
This re-lationship is defined by the relative levels ofknowledge, expertise, and responsibility of thesystem and user.
Three strategies used by oursystem, and their motivations, are:I.
Discard communicative goals that implicitlyconflict with a system recommendation.
Ithe above example, this would result in atext plan that only recommends doing As515(Goals U {(Do U {A0}),(Know U (In-Order {A0} {At })),(DO U {A2})})(Goals U {(Do U {A0}),(Know U...)}) SEQ (Goal U (Do U {A2}))do A2(Recommend U \[A0}) (Persuaded U (Do U \[A0})) (Inform U (In-Order{A0} {AI }) (Persuaded U (In-Order {A0} {A1 }))DoAO t~ doitbeforeAi IN(Motivation 0} {GI,G2}) (Evidence (In-Order {AO} {AI }) RI)) JN(Bel User (Pan-of {A0} {G I,G21)) (Bel User (Reason (In-OrderlA0} {AI }) RI))IN IN(Inform User (Pan-of {A0} {GI,G2})) (Inform User (Reason (In-Order{A0} {A1 }) RI))as part of Gi and G2 (because RI).IN(Motivation {A2} {G1 })(Bel User (Pan-o I {A2} {GI }))(Inform User (Part-of { A2 } { G I } ))to complete G2.Figure 4: Result of two rules applied to input shown in Fig.
5.
First, a rule that applies to treeswith top level goals of the form (GOAL USER (DO ...))uses two trees from Fig.
5 to make a tree withthe two subtrees labelled (1) and (2).
Next, a rule that places scheduling trees ( (GOAL U (KNOWU (IN-ORDER ...))) ) with related goals inserts a third subtree (3), in this case the entire schedulingtree.
A domain specific realizer traverses the tree and inserts cue words and conjunctions based onrelations.instead of An.
This strategy would be ap-propriate if the system is an expert in thedomain, has full knowledge of the currentsituation, and is the sole arbiter of correctperformance.II.
Integrate the text plan that implicitly con-flicts with the system recommendation asa concession that the user may choose notto accept he recommendation.
This strat-egy is appropriate if the system is an ex-pert in the domain, but the user has betterknowledge of the current situation and/orretains responsibility for selecting the bestplan of action.
Decision support is suchan environment.
The top half of Figure 6presents two TraumaTIQ critiques that ex-hibit implicit conflict, while the bottompart presents the English realization of theintegrated text plan, which uses a CONCES-SION relation to achieve coherence.I I I .
Present he system recommendation as analternative to the user plan.
This maybe appropriate if the parameters indicatethe user has more complete knowledge andmore expertise.
(Goal UJ.D~ U {h0,h2}))(Recommend U (A0,A2}) (Persuaded U (Do U {A0,A21))Do AO and A2 IN(Motivation \[A0,A2} {GI })(Bel User (Pan-of { A0,A2 } { G I }))IN(Inform User (Pan-of {A0,A2} {GI 1))as part of Gl.
(Goal U (Do U {A0}))( Recommend U {A0}) (Persuaded U (Do U {A0}))Do AO I N(Motivation {A2} {GI }){N(Bel User (Pan-of {A0} {Ol }))IN(Inform User (Pan-of {A01 {G!
}))as ~ of G2.
(Inform U (ln-OrderlA01{Al }) (Persuaded U (In-Order \[A0}{AI D)DoAObeforeAl \[N(Evidence (In-Order (A0 | { A I \]) R l ))IN(Bel User (Reason (In-Order{ A0 } { A ! })
R l))IN(In form User (Reason (In-Order{ A0 } { A I } ) R I))(because RI).Figure 5: Input to RTPI  (see Figure 4).5.1.3 Exploiting Related GoalsOccasionally two text plans may exhibit no con-flict, yet the relationships between their com-municative goals can be exploited to producemore coherent ext.
For example, consider thefollowing two individual critiques produced byTraumaTIQ:Caution: do a peritoneal avage immediatelyas part of ruling out abdominal bleeding.Do not reassess the patient in 6 to 24 hoursuntil after doing a peritoneal lavage.
The out-come of the latter may affect the need to dothe former.516While the two critiques do not conflict, RTPI'srules exploit the relation between the commu-nicative goals in their respective text plans toproduce a more concise and coherent message.In particular, one of RTPI's rules recognizes theinteraction between an initial plan to get theuser to perform an action As, and a second planthat gets the user to recognize a dependency be-tween As and another action.
This rule createsa text plan for the message:Do a peritoneal lavage immediately as part ofruling out abdominal bleeding.
Use the resultsof the peritoneal avage to decide whether toreassess the patient in 6 to P4 hours.TraumaTIQ critiques:Performing local visual exploration of all ab-dominal wounds is preferred over doing a peri-toneal lavage for ruling out a suspicious ab-dominal wall injury.Please remember to check for laparotomy scarsbefore you do a peritoneal lavage.Message from RTPI integrated plan:Performing local visual exploration of all ab-dominal wounds is preferred over doing a peri-toneal lavage for ruling out a suspicious ab-dominal wall injury.
However, if you do aperitoneal lavage, then remember to first checkfor laparotomy scars.5.2 Trailing CommentsOccasionally when several text plans are inte-grated into a single text plan, another text planthat overlaps with the integrated plan will re-main outside the new plan because the scoringfunction for the applicable rule was too low toallow it to combine.
This is typically because aneffort to integrate such a text plan would createa message so complex that the heuristic deemedit inappropriate.However, once concepts have been introducedin the integrated text plan, focusing heuristics(McKeown, 1985) suggest hat other text planscontaining these concepts be included in the in-tegrated plan as well.
Rather than restructurethe result of our transformation (against he ad-vice of our heuristic), we append them to theend of the message.
Thus we refer to them astrailing comments.Unfortunately, when the communicative goalis to get the user to perform an action, trailingcomments that refer to such actions have the po-tential to erroneously suggest new instances ofactions.
Our solution to this problem is imple-mented in the text realization templates, wherewe (1) make the focused action the subject ofthe sentence, reflecting its given status in thediscourse, (2)uti l ize clue words to call atten-tion to its occurrence earlier in the message andto the new information being conveyed, and (3)subordinate other concepts presented with thefocused concept by placing them in a phrase in-troduced by the cue words "along with".
Inone such example from the trauma domain, themain text plan contains the communicative goalof getting the user to perform several actions,including a laparotomy.
A SEQUENCE relationis used to adjoin an overlapping text plan asa trailing comment, and this additional com-municative goal is realized in English as (cluewords underlined):Figure 6: Conflict resolution.Moreover., doing the laparotomy is also indi-cated, along with repairing the left diaphragm,to treat the lacerated left diaphragm.6 AlgorithmRTPI performs rule-based integration of a setof RST-style trees.
Rules are applied in an or-der designed to maximize derived benefit.
Thesystem first applies the rules that resolve con-flict, since we hypothesize that the presence ofconflict will most seriously hamper assimilationof a message.
Next, the rules that exploit rela-tions between text plans are tried because theyenhance coherence by explicitly connecting dif-ferent communicative goals.
Then the aggrega-tion rules are applied to improve conciseness.Finally, the rules for trailing comments reducethe number of disconnected message units.The algorithm is both greedy and anytime(Garvey and Lesser, 1994); it takes the best re-sult from a single application of a rule to a set oftext plans, and then attempts to further applyrules to the modified set.
The rule instantiationwith the highest heuristic score is chosen andthe rule's operator is applied to the trees usingthose bindings.
Since the rules are designed toapply incrementally to a set, every applicationof a rule results in an improvement in the con-ciseness or coherence of the tree set, and thetree set is always a viable set of text plans.
Theuser can thus set a time limit for processing ofa tree set, and the algorithm can return an im-proved set at any time.
In practice, however,the processing has never taken more than 1-2seconds, even for large (25 plans) input sets.5177 Resu l tsWe tested RTPI using the corpus of critiquesgenerated by TraumaTIQ.
A set of critiques wasextracted from the middle of each of 48 traumacases, and RST-style text plans were automati-cally generated for all the critiques.
Then RTPIran each set, and messages resulting from atemplate-based realization of RTPTs text planswere analyzed for conciseness and coherence.We are currently using templates for sentencerealization since we have been working in thedomain of trauma care, where fast real-time re-sponse is essential.There was a 18% reduction in the aver-age number of individual text plans in the 48sets examined.
The results for individual setsranged from no integration in cases where all ofthe text plans were independent ofone another,to a 60% reduction in sets that were heavilyinter-related.
More concise messages also re-sulted from a 12% reduction in the number ofreferences to the diagnostic and therapeutic ac-tions and objectives that are the subject of thisdomain.
The new text plans also allowed somereferences to be replaced by pronouns duringrealization, making the messages horter andmore natural.To evaluate coherence, messages from twelvecases 1 were presented, in randomly orderedblind pairs, to three human subjects not affili-ated with our project.
The written instructionsgiven to the subjects instructed them to notewhether one set of messages was more compre-hensible, and if so, to note why.
Two subjectspreferred the new messages in 11 of 12 cases,and one subject preferred them in all cases.
Allsubjects strongly preferred the messages pro-duced from the integrated text plan 69% of thetime.8 SummaryIntegration of multiple text plans is a task thatwill become increasingly necessary as indepen-dent modules of sophisticated systems are re-quired to communicate with a user.
This pa-per has presented our rule-based system, RTPI,for accomplishing this task.
RTPI aggregatescommunicative goals to achieve more succincttext plans, resolves conflict among text plans,and exploits the relations between communica-tive goals to enhance coherence.RTPI successfully integrated multiple textplans to improve conciseness and coherencein the trauma care domain.
We will fur-ther explore the application of RTPTs domain-independent rules by applying the system to a1The evaluation examples consisted of the first eleveninstances from the test set where RTPI  produced newtext plans, plus the first example of conflict in the testset.different domain.
We would also like to developmore domain-independent a d some domain-dependent rules, and compare the fundamentalcharacteristics of each.Re ferencesDouglas E. Appelt.
1985.
Planning englishreferring expressions.
Artificial Intelligence,26(1):1-33.Charles B. Callaway and James C. Lester.1997.
Dynamically improving explanations:A revision-based approach to explanationgeneration.
In Proceedings of the 15th Inter-national Joint Conference on Artificial Intel-ligence, Nagoya, Japan, August.
IJCAI.Alan Garvey and Victor Lesser.
1994.
A surveyof research in deliberative real-time artificialintelligence.
The Journal of Real-Time Sys-tems, 6.A.
Gertner and B. L. Webber.
1996.
A Bias To-wards Relevance: Recognizing Plans WhereGoal Minimization Fails.
In Proceedings ofthe Thirteenth National Conference on Arti-ficial Intelligence, Portland, OR.Eduard Hovy.
1991.
Approaches to the plan-ning of coherent text.
In Natural Lan-guage Generation in Artificial Intelligenceand Computational Linguistics, pages 153-198.
Kluwer.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.1987.
Rhetorical structure theory: A the-ory of text organization.
Technical ReportISI/RS-87-190, ISI/USC, June.Kathleen R. McKeown.
1985.
Text Gener-ation.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, New York.Johanna Moore and Cecile Paris.
1993.
Plan-ning text for advisory dialogues: Capturingintentional and rhetorical information.
Com-putational Linguistics, 19(4):651-695.Johanna D. Moore, 1995.
Participating in Ex-planatory Dialogues, chapter 3.
MIT Press.Leo Wanner and Eduard Hovy.
1996.
TheHealthDoc sentence planner.
In Proceedingsof the International Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation, pages 1-10.Bonnie L. Webber, Ron Rymon, and John R.Clarke.
1992.
Flexible support for traumamanagement through goal-directed reason-ing and planning.
Artificial Intelligence inMedicine, 4:145-163.Ingrid Zukerman and Richard McConachy.1995.
Generating discourse across severaluser models: Maximizing belief while avoid-ing boredom and overload.
In Proceedings ofthe International Joint Conference on Artifi-cial Intelligence, pages 1251-1257.518
