Simultaneous Interpretation Utilizing Example-based Incremental TransferHideki Mima +, Hitoshi Iida and Osamu Furuse *+ATR Interpreting Telecommunications Research Laboratories2-2 Hikaridai Seika-cho Soraku-gun Kyoto 619-0288, JapanEMAn= H.Mima@doc.mmu.ac.uk, iida@itl.atr.co.jp, furuse@cslab.kecl.ntt.co.jpAbstractThis paper describes apractical method of automatic simultaneous interpretation utilizing an example-basedincremental transfer mechanism.
We primarily show how incremental translation is achieved in the context ofan example-based framework.
We then examine the type of translation examples required for a simultaneousinterpretation to create naturally communicative dialogs.
Finally, we propose a scheme for automaticsimultaneous interpretation exploiting this example-based incremental translation mechanism.
Preliminaryexperimentation analyzing the performance of our example-based incremental translation mechanism leads usto believe that the proposed scheme can be utilized to achieve apractical simultaneous interpretation system.Introduct ionSpeech-to-speech translation necessitates quickand perspicuous responses to naturalcommunication.
Furthermore, since dialoguescontinuously expand, it is essential toincrementally translate inputs to avoidinterrupting the coherency of communications.Therefore, a high degree of incrementality andacceptability in translation such as simultaneousinterpretation is essential.
To satisfy theserequirements, an incremental translation system,which functions as a simultaneous interpreter, isseen as an efficient solution in this field.The main characteristic of incrementaltranslations is the translation process.
This isactivated synchronously with the input, incontrast with conventional sentence-by-sentence-based translation which cannot start processinguntil the end of an input (Kitano, 1994).
However,in incremental translation, we believe that thefollowing issues must be resolved to achieveactual simultaneous interpretation :?
How to define Information Units (IUs)(Halliday, 1994) to determine appropriatecomponents for translation - Sincedifferences exist among the word order ofvarious languages, especially betweenlinguistically distant languages such as Englishand Japanese, appropriate transfer units,equally effective for both the source and targetlanguages, have to be defined.?
How to determine plausible translation foreach IU - In terms of the information content,the greater the number of words contained inIUs, the less semantic ambiguity in translation,or the later the response is obtained.
Because oftime restrictions, deterministic processing byexploiting specious measures (e.g.
linguisticalor statistical plausibility) is required for each IUtranslation i  order to shorten the length of IUs.
* How to install simultaneous interpreters'know-how (i.e.
empirical knowledge) - Inpractical simultaneous interpretation, humantranslators generally use strong sentenceplanning using particular empirical know-how.The exploitation of this kind of knowledge isessential for achieving practical simultaneousinterpretation (Kitano, 1994).Transfer-Driven Machine Translation (TDMT)(Furuse, 1994a) (Mima, 1997) has been proposed,and an efficient method of spoken dialogtranslation.
TDMT has the following key features:?
Utilization of Constituent Boundary Patterns(CB-Patterns) (Fumse, 1994b) (Furuse, 1996)- CB-Patterns based on meaningful informationunits are applied to parse an input incrementallyand produce translations based on thesynchronization of the source and targetlanguage structure pairs (Abeillr, 1990) (Shieber,1990).
This contrasts with the linguistic mannerof applying rammar rules.The result of this provides for incrementaltranslations that can even handle lengthy input* Current affiliation: Department ofComputing, Manchester Metropolitan University, Manchester M 1 5GD, U.K.~" Current affiliation: NTT Communication Science Laboratories, 2-4 Hikaridai Seika-cho Soraku-gun, Kyoto 619-0237, Japan.855efficiently by splitting the input into appropriateand meaningful chunks.
In addition,?
Existence of efficient disambiguation scheme- by dealing with best-only substructuresutilizing stored empirical translation examplescompiled from a linguistic database, theexplosion of structural ambiguities issignificantly constrained (Furuse, 1996).Accordingly, TDMT has the advantage of havingboth the capability to define effective IU and anefficient deterministic processing scheme inincremental spoken-language translation.Additionally, in exploiting the empirical"knowledge that is required in practicalsimultaneous interpretation, we can assume thatthe empirical knowledge is described within thelinguistic resource of simultaneous interpretationcorpora.
(Harbusch, 1992) proposed a method ofdefault handling in incremental generation basedon this observation.in this paper, we describe the achievement ofpractical simultaneous interpretation using aTDMT.
Furthermore, we discuss what kind ofempirical knowledge is required for realizingefficient simultaneous interpretation, i  terms of asimultaneous translator's knowledge, as well asproposing a method to exploit this empiricalknowledge in an example-based framework inorder to produce consistent translations.A preliminary experiment analyzing our proposedscheme indicates that it should be able to be used inachieving simultaneous interpretation systems.The next section of the paper briefly explainsincremental translation using TDMT.
Section 2discusses the type of empirical knowledgenecessary in simultaneous interpretation usingsome examples.
Section 3 describes our proposedscheme for exploiting simultaneous interpretationexamples.
Section 4 presents a preliminaryexperiment for analyzing our proposed scheme toconfirm its feasibility.
Section 5 examines omerelated research in the field of incrementaltranslation.
Finally, a summary of our approachconcludes this paper.1 Incremental  Translat ion UsingTransfer-Driven Machine Translat ion1.1 Const ituent Boundary PatternIn TDMT, translation is performed by applyingstored empirical transfer knowledge, whichdescribes the correspondence between sourcelanguage expressions and target languageexpressions atvarious linguistic levels.
The sourceand target expressions from the transfer knowledgein TDMT are expressed as CB-Patterns, whichrepresent meaningful units for linguistic structureand transfer.
The efficient application of transferknowledge source components o an input stringplays a key role in our basic incrementaltranslation scheme.
A pattern is defined as asequence that consists of variables and constituentboundaries such as surface functional words.The transfer knowledge is compiled from actualtranslation examples in every source pattern.1.2 Incremental  Pattern Appl icat ionThe incremental application of CB-Pattems isbased on the idea of incremental chart parsing(Furuse, 1996) (Amtrup, 1995) with notions oflinguistic levels.The procedure for the application of CB-Patterns is as follows:(a) Determination fpossible pattern applications.
(b) Translation candidate determination andstructural disambiguation of patterns bysemantic distance calculation.Our scheme determines the best translation andstructure parallel with an input sequence and canrestrain the number of competing structures(possible translation candidates) at the possibleutterance point in the input by performing (a) inparallel with (b), thus reducing the translation costsin time.
The structure selected in (b) has its resulttransferred with head word-information usingsemantic distance calculations when combinedincrementally with other structures.
The outputsentence is generated as a translation result fromthe structure for the whole input, which iscomposed of best-first substructures.In order to limit the combinations of patternsand control the appropriate timing of each partialutterance during pattern application, we distinguishpattern levels, and specify the linguistic sublevelpermitted for use in the assigned variables for eachlinguistic level.
This is because if anycombinations of patterns are permitted, it isobvious that the possibility of combinations areeasily exploded.
Table 1 shows examples of therelationship between linguistic levels.
Every CB-pattern is categorised as one of the linguistic levels,and a variable on a given level is instantiated by astring on the linguistic levels in the second columnof Table 1.For instance, in the noun phrase "X of Y", thevariables X and Y cannot be instantiated by a856simple sentence pattern, but can be instatiated byNP such as a noun phrase pattern or a compoundnoun pattern.Moreover, these levels give a guideline to thetiming of utterance production (i.e.
the timing ofwhen an utterance is said).
For example, eachsimple sentence level pattern has utterancemarkers (Table 2, where '/' indicates theutterance markers) for possible insertion of anutterance during left-to-right application of thepattern.
Thus, redundant o r  incomplete partialmatchings can be eliminated and an appropriatetrigger of utterance can be obtained.
(Furuse, 1996) provides further details of thealgorithm for incremental CB-Parsing.Table 1 Possible linguistic sublevels in variablesLinguistic levelSimple sentenceVerb phrase (VP)Noun phrase (NP)compound noun (CN)Sublevels of variablesVP, NP .
.
.
.VP, NP, verb .
.
.
.NP, CN, proper-noun .
.
.
.CN, noun .
.
.
.Table 2 Utterance markersJapanese Pattern English patternBy the way / XNo/XX but / YX i f /YX / where Ytokorode / X'iie / X'X' / shikashi Y'X' / moshi Y'X ' /Y '1.3 Disambiguation of TranslationCandidateThe CB-pattern "X no Y" with the particle "no" isa frequently used expression in Japanese.
We canobserve the following Japanese-to-Englishtransfer knowledge about "X no Y'" from suchtranslation examples as the source-target pairs of :"hoteru no jasho'" --~ "the address of  the hotel","eigo no paNfuretto'" ~ "the pamphlet written inEnglish", etc.X no Y =>Y' ofX' ((hoteru ,jasho) .... ),'hotel' address'Y' written in X' ((eigo, paNfuretto) .... ),'English' pamphlet'Y' for X' ((asu, tenk~) .
.
.
.
),'tomorrow' 'weather'Within this pattern, X' is the target wordcorresponding to X, and a corresponding Englishword is written below each Japanese word.
Forexample, "hoteru'" means 'hotel', and "jasho "means 'address'.This transfer knowledge expression indicatesthat the Japanese pattern "X no Y" corresponds tomany possible English expressions.
(hoteru,jasho) are sample bindings for "X no Y", where X= hoteru, and Y = jasho.TDMT makes the most of an example-basedframework, which produces an output sentence bymimicking the closest translation example to aninput sentence.
The semantic distance from theinput is calculated for all examples.
Then theexample closest to the input is chosen, and thetarget expression of that example is extracted.Suppose that the input is "nihoNgo nopaNfuretto", where nihoNgo means 'Japanese',and the input is closest o (eigo, paNfuretto); "thepamphlet written in Japanese" can be gained bychoosing Y' written in X' as the best targetexpression.Furthermore, ambiguity in the combination ofpatterns, which have not been constrained by thelinguistic levels, is also dissolved incrementally byusing the total sum of the semantic distances ofpatterns contained (Furuse, 1996).The distance between an input and a translationexample is measured based on the semanticdistance between the words contained, and thesemantic distance between words is calculated interms of a thesaurus hierarchy.
(Sumita, 1991)provides further details of the semantic distancecaluculation.2 Exploitation of a SimultaneousInterpreter's Empirical KnowledgeIn practical simultaneous interpretation, humantranslators generally use strong sentence planningsuch as transformation between the active and thepassive voice, transformation from a lengthyinterrogative sentence to a tag question, andtopicalization transformation.
Moreover, the inputis produced and modified in a step-by-step manner,so that it can be temporarily incomplete - althoughas a whole sentence it may become sufficient.Thus, the consistency of translations has to beadjusted appropriately when a contradiction occursbetween a previously uttered part of the translationand the part currently being translated.As a consequence of under specification,simultaneous interpretation is essentially based on857working with empirical knowledge - e.g.simultaneous interpreters' translation examples.In this section, we first describe the kinds ofexamples that are required to achievesimultaneous interpretation using some samplesentences.2.1 Empirical Knowledge?
Transformation to a tag questionLet us consider the following Japanese utterance:(El) Nani-mo moNdai-wa ari-maseN -<pause>-de-sh~-ka.
(what problem exist -<pause>- isthere) 1In Japanese, an interrogative is specified at theend of the sentence, while in English, it isgenerally specified in front of the sentence.
Thus,although a translation of the whole sentence of(El) is "Is everything all right', in some cases,"Everything is all right' could be uttered after thepause in the incremental framework.
In this case,the meaning of the previously uttered part is nolonger consistent with the current translation.However, even in this case, translation can becontinued transforming to a tag question as (El)'by using a peculiar translation example \[TEllwithout interruption by semantic inconsistencyand the insertion of a restatement.\[TEll (X de-sh6-ka) --~ (X', isn't it)(El)' Everything is alright, isn't it.
({\[TE1\]: X' ='Everything is alright' })?
Negative sentenceLet us consider the following utterance:(E2) TsuiNramu-wa gozai-masu -<pause>- ga,hoNjitsu-wa goriy6-ni-nare-maseN.
(twinroom exist -<pause>- but today not-available)In Japanese, negation is also specified at the endof the sentence while in English it has to bespecified in front of the finite verb.
In addition, anexpression "X wa gozai-masu" in (E2) haspossible translations as "'we have X'" or "X' isavailable".
Thus, although the whole translationshould ideally read as "We have twin rooms, butnone are available today", "A twin room isavailable" might be selected as a part of thetranslation in some cases.
Although one solutioncould be to restate previously uttered phrases uchI In this paper, sample Japanese is Romanized in italicbased on the Hepburn system with the correspondingEnglish words following in parentheses.as: "no, sorry, we do have twin rooms, but none..... ", such restatements should not be usedfrequently.
This is because the restatements tend tobreak in general, coherency of human interactionHowever, in this case, translation can becontinued as (E2)' by using a peculiar translationexample \[TE2\], with no restatement.\[TE2\] (X ga, Y) ---) (X' usually, but Y')(E2)' A twin room is available usually, but we donot have any vacancies today.
({\[TE2\]: X'='A twin room is available', Y'='we do nothave any vacancies today' })?
Failure of  predictionIn simultaneous interpretation, elements areusually uttered before the input consumption hasbeen finished.
Thus, because of the uncertainty inassumptions, a system with this facility must beable to adjust the whole content of the translationwhen it is realized that the assumption is incorrectfrom information given later.Consider the following English utterance:(E3) That restaurant is open -<pause>- as only asin the evening.In the case of the part of the translation alreadyuttered, "sono-resutoraN-wa @uN-shite-I-masu",it should have been inserted "yoru nomi" in frontof the phrase "@uN-shite-l-masu", when thewhole sentence is translated.However the translation can be continued as it isas in (E3)' by using a peculiar translation example\[TE3\].\[TE3\] (X as only as Y) ---> (X' I-masu, ga, Y' nomi-desu)(E3)' Sono-resutoraN-wa @uN-shite I-masu, ga~voru nomi-desu ({\[TE3\]: X'= '@uN-shite',Y'='yoru' })As the above example shows, simultaneousinterpretation as skilled as that performed by ahuman interpreter is achievable by exploitingpeculiar translation examples - i.e.
simultaneousinterpretation examples (or SI-examples, in short).In the next section, we propose an algorithm tohandle these kinds of SI-example with the best-first example-based incremental MT mechanism.3 Simultaneous Interpretation AlgorithmAlthough the main characteristic of example-basedtranslation is the use of the most similar examplesas the main knowledge source for translation, theexploitation of SI-examples is drawn from thefollowing consideration :858* A translation should use an example consis-tent with previously uttered informationThus, the key translation process with exploitingSI-examples consists of the following stages:(1) Checking the contextual consistency betweenpreviously uttered phrases 2 and the phrase tobe uttered next.
(2) Retrieving the most plausible exampleaccording to both the contextual sequence andsimilarity.
(3) Re-translating the phrase to be uttered next byusing the example retrieved in (2)The algorithm is described as follows.
In thealgorithm, the input phrase to be considered as acombination of structures hown in Figure 1 tofacilitate understanding of the algorithm.
Forexample, in the case of (E3), STj indicates "'Therestaurant is open", ST2 indicates "open as onlyas in the evening", and STy.2 indicates the wholephrase.
In addition, trans(S%) returns wordsequence indicating translation of S%., trans(STi,E) also returns word sequence indicating thetranslation of S% using example E, and i indicatesthe current processing part.
Since the algorithmfor the exploitation of SI-examples i applied onlyif a previous translated phrase exists, theproposed algorithm is executed in the case ofi>=2.Algorithm:Start.1.
Retrieve the similar examples of ST~ from thetotal example database (normal + SI-examples)and assign the list to the {SE} with theappropriate semantic distance.2.
Produce trans(ST~, E), where E indicates themost similar example listed in {SE}.3.
Remove the example E from {SE}.4.
If trans(STi.,.~., E) == trans(STH) +3 trans(ST~,E) 4,2 In this paper, we only state the context within asentence and do not refer to contexts between dialogs.3 Indicating sequencial appending operation, whichincludes removal operation of the common sub-sequence among the last of the first item and the firstof the second item.
For example, word sequences "AB" + word sequences "B C" indicates "A B C".4 i.e.
trans(STi.j) and trans(STi) are contextuallycontinuous.
In this paper, we define contextuallycontinuous from the view point of sequences ofconcrete words (phrases) contained, in terms ofcombination with an example-based framework.J ji trans(ST,): "i ii Sono'resutoraN'waldPuN'shlte I.masu iiF,,- iOu trans(ST2): i@mV-slffta I.mssu, k.g.a..,...yo..rU.....no.m..i.:.de.s_~Figure 1 Notation of Substructuresthen, output he difference between trans(STi,E) and trans(ST~.
0, then goto End.5.
Goto 2.End.In the majority of conventional example-basedframeworks, only a semantic similarity isconsidered in retrieving the examples to be applied.In our scheme, on the other hand, not onlysemantic similarity but also contextual consistencywith the previous translation is considered.
In otherwords, the key notion of the scheme is itsmechanism for selecting appropriate xamples.Hence, as the above algorithm shows, exploitationof SI-examples can be combined smoothly withthe conventional example-based framework.Let us explain the algorithm in terms of sentence(E3) as an example.
First, assuming thattrans(STl) = "Sono-resutoraN-wa &puN-shite I-masu" (the-restaurant open), the most similarexample of ST~ is normally:\[TE4\] (X as only as Y) ---) (Y' nomi X' I-masu)Thus, trans(ST2, TE4) can be "yoru nomi &puN-shite l-masu'" (evening only open) and as thephrase "yoru nomi ..." is, in this case, notcontextually continuous, and the next exampleshould be extracted from the similar example list{SE}.
Then, the example is \[TE3\], since trans(ST2,TE3) -- "&ouN-shite l-masu, ga, yoru nomi-desu",in terms of the contextual order of the words, thistranslation can be continuous.
Thus, the differencebetween trans(ST,) and the trans(ST2, TE3), "ga,yoru nomi-desu" can be obtained as the nextutterance.8594 Preliminary ExperimentsWe conducted a preliminary experiment withrespect to (a) the quality of example-basedtranslation in relation to IUs (i.e., meaningfulunits), and (b) the quality and speed ofincremental parsing (CB-Parsing), to confirm thefeasibility of our proposed scheme.In the evaluation of (a), we conducted a jack-knife experiment to measure the average successrate of translation for the most frequently usedexpressions (i.e.
the most ambiguous) in Japanese,"X no Y'" and "X wo Y".
We prepared 774 and 689examples for the expressions respectively, andconducted the experiment in increments of 100examples (Furuse, 1994a).
The examples wereextracted by random sampling.
We then evaluatedthe 10 translations of corresponding expressionsin the dialog database for each case.Figure 2 shows the average rate of theevaluation for 10 translations.Although the translation quality of each unitdepended on the type of expression, the graphshows that, in general, the more examples thesystem has, the better the quality 5.Conditions of our experiment and evaluationfor (b) are that the number of CB-patterns forJapanese-English translation and English-Japanese translation are 777 and 1241,respectively, and the number of total examplesare 10000 and 8000, respectively.
In theevaluation, we set the system to retain only onesubstructure in the semantic distance calculationin order to confirm the feasibility of deterministicprocessing at each incremental step.CB-Parsing for 69-77 unseen dialogs (of 1,000different unseen sentences) were manuallyevaluated by assigning a grade indicating successor failure.
All of the parsing times includeaccessing time for an example database (i.e.corresponding to the whole transfer time) andwere measured on a Sparc Station 10 workstationwith 256 MB of memory.Table 3 shows the experimental results.
ForCB-Parsing accuracy, a success rate ofapproximately 76 % was achieved for bothtranslations, rates that are fairly high for spoken-language parsing.5However, we also have to ascertain the practicalsatiation limit, or how much the transfer knowledgecan be expanded, as a future work.100-~ 8o.~_6Omr~ = 20\[-0- -  l - - .Xwo Y~, Xno  Y. I  " - Io l "I I I I ' ' '100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800No.
of ExamplesFigure 2 Quality of Example-based TransferTable 3 Evaluation ResultsNo.
of test dialogues (sent.
)Morphemes / sentenceCB-Parsing AccuracyParsing Time (average)J -E  E- J69 (1225) 77 (1341)9.7 7.176.7 % 76.0 %0.4sec.
0.3 sec.The main problem in the parsing procedureinvolved an insufficient number of examples forthe CB-Pattem.
However, as Figure 2 shows, anincrease in the ratio with the number of examplescould be observed with our framework.
Thus,overall accuracy and acceptability should improvein proportion to an increase in transfer examples.Although the speed depends on the amount ofknowledge and sentence length, the average timewas less than 0.4 seconds, which is fairly rapid.Thus, our translation scheme can be seen as anefficient translation mechanism in achieving apractical simultaneous interpretation system.5 Related ResearchSeveral schemes have been proposed with respect toincremental translation based on the synchronizationof input and output fragments and the use ofspecialized information for simultaneousinterpretation.
(Kitano, 1994) proposes incrementaltranslation that is based on marker-passing memory-based translation.
Although the technique adopts acost-oriented best-first strategy to avoid theexplosion of structural ambiguity, the strategy doesnot pay attention to actual aspects of the overallmeaning such as in the case when a previously madeassumption turns out to be incorrect.
(Matsubara,1997) proposed a method to handle extra-860grammatical phenomena with a chart-basedincremental English-Japanese MT system basedon observations of a translation corpus.
However,this system was only capable of English toJapanese translation.
In this paper, the aspects offlexible order, repetitions, and ellipses are onlybriefly considered and necessary extensions, uchas the adjustment of consistency in related to thewhole sentence by employing simultaneousinterpreters' "knowledge have not been previouslyinvestigated.ConclusionWe have described a practical method ofautomatic simultaneous interpretation.
In theexploitation of empirical knowledge, weexamined the kind of empirical knowledgerequired to achieve efficient simultaneousinterpretation.
We then have proposed a methodto exploit these empirical simultaneous translationexamples in an example-based framework toproduce a practical method of simultaneousinterpretation.Preliminary experimentation analyzing ourproposed scheme showed that it can be utilized toachieve a simultaneous interpretation system.The possibility of applying this sort ofexample-based framework into multilingualtranslation, such as a Japanese-German pair and aJapanese-Korean pair, has been shown in (Furuse,1995) and (Mima, 1997).
Therefore, the algorithmcan also be expected to work for not only anEnglish-Japanese pair but also other languagepairs.Important areas of future research will involvemethods for:?
Predicting the contents of the nextutterance by using dialog-specific discourseanalysis (Levin, 1995)?
Handling linguistic differences between thesource and target languages such assubject ellipsisWe believe that some situational information,such as the speakers-roles in the conversation(Mima, 1997) could be potentially helpful forboth predicting the contents of the next utteranceand resolving linguistic differences.
Theintegration of statistical/stochastic approaches,such as Decision-Tree Learning (Yamamoto,1997) for the above discourse-related issues isanother area of interest for future work.ReferencesA.
Abeill6, Y. Schabes and A. K. Joshi (1990) UsingLexicalized Tags for Machine Translation.
In Proc.
ofColing'90, pages 1---6.J.
W. Amtrup (1995) Chart-based Incremental Transferin Machine Translation.
In Proc.
of 6 'h TMI.
pages188--195.O.
Furuse, E. Sumita, and H. Iida (1994a) Transfer-Driven Machine Translation Utilizing EmpiricalKnowledge (in Japanese).
Trans.
of InformationProcessing Society of Japan.
Vol.
35, No.
3, pages414--425.O.
Furuse, and H. Iida (1994b) Constituent BoundaryParsing for Example-Based Machine Translation.
InProc.
of Coling '94, pages 105--111.O.
Furuse, J. Kawai, H. Iida, S. Akamine, and D. Kim(1995) Multi-lingual Spoken-Language TranslationUtilizing Translation Examples.
In Proc.
ofNLPRS'95, pages 544--549.O.
Furuse and H. Iida (1996) Incremental TranslationUtilizing Constituent Boundary patterns.
In Proc.
ofColing '96, pages 412--417.K.
Harbusch, G. Kikui, and A. Kilger (1994) DefaultHandling in Incremental Generation.
In Proc.
ofColing'94.
pages 356--362.M.
A. K. Halliday (1994) An Introduction to FunctionalGrammar.
Edward Arnold.H.
Kitano (1994) The ?
DM-DIALOG System.
InSpeech-To-Speech Translation.
H. Kitano.
KluwerAcademic Publishers.
Pages 47--113.L.
Levin, O. Glickman, Y. Qu, D. Gates, A. Lavie, C. P.Ros6, C. V. Ess-Dykema nd A. Waibel (1995) UsingContext in Machine Translation of Spoken Language.In Proc.
of 6 ~h TMI.
pages 173--187.S.
Matsubara nd Y. Inagaki (1997) Utilizing Extra-grammatical Phenomena in Incremental English-Japanese Machine Translation.
In Proc.
of 7 th TMI.pages 31--38.H.
Mima, O. Furuse, and H. Iida (1997) ImprovingPerformance of Transfer-Driven MachineTranslation with Extra-linguistic Information fromContext, Situation, and Environment.
In Proc.
ofIJCAI'97.
pages 983--988.S.
M. Shieber and Y. Schabes (1990) SynchronousTree-Adjoining Grammars.
In Proc.
of Coling'90,pages 253--258.E.
Sumita and H. Iida (1991) Experiments andProspects of Example-based Machine Translation.
InProc.
of 29 th ACL.
pages 185--192.K.
Yamamoto, E. Sumita, O. Furuse, and H. Iida (1997)Ellipsis Resolution in Dialogues via Decision-TreeLearning.
In Proc.
of NLPRS'97.
pages 423--428.861
