Spontaneous Lexicon ChangeLuc  Steels  ?1,2) and Fr6d6r ic  Kap lan  (1,3)(1) Sony CSL Paris - 6 Rue Amyot, 75005 Paris(2) VUB AI Lab - Brussels(3) LIP6 - 4, place Jussieu 75232 Paris cedex 05Abst rac tThe paper argues that language change canbe explained through the stochasticity observedin real-world natural language use.
This the-sis is demonstrated by modeling language usethrough language games played in an evolv-ing population of agents.
We show that theartificial languages which the agents sponta-neously develop based on self-organisation, donot evolve even if the population is changing.Then we introduce stochasticity in language useand show that this leads to a constant innova-tion (new forms and new form-meaning associ-ations) and a maintenance of variation in thepopulation, if the agents are tolerant o varia-tion.
Some of these variations overtake xistinglinguistict conventions, particularly in changingpopulations, thus explaining lexicon change.1 In t roduct ionNatural language volution takes place at alllevels of language (McMahon, 1994).
This ispartly due to external factors such as languagecontact between different populations or theneed to express new meanings or support newmodes of interaction with language.
But itis well-established that language also changesspontaneously based on an internal dynam-ics (Labov, 1994).
For example, many soundchanges, like f rom/b / to /p / ,  /d/  to / t / ,  and/g/  to /k/,  which took place in the evolutionfrom proto-Indo-European to Modern Germaniclanguages, do not have an external motivation.Neither do many shifts in the expression ofmeanings.
For example, the expression of fu-ture tense in English has shifted from "shall"to "will", even though "shall" was perfectlysuited and "will" meant something else (namely"wanting to").
Similarly, restructuring of thegrammar occurs without any apparent reason.For example, in Modern English the auxiliariescome before the main verb, whereas in Old En-glish after it ('he conquered be would' (OldEnglish) vs. 'he would be conquered' (Mod-ern English)).
This internal, apparently non-functional evolution of language has been dis-cussed widely in the linguistic literature, lead-ing some linguists to strongly reject the possi-bility of evolutionary explanations of language(Chomsky, 1990).In biological systems, evolution takes placebecause \[1\] a population shows natural varia-tion, and \[2\] the distribution of traits in thepopulation changes under the influence of selec-tion pressures present in the environment.
Notethat biological variation is also non-functional.Natural selection acts post .factum as a selectingagent, pushing the population in certain direc-tions, but the novelty is created independentlyof a particular goal by stochastic forces oper-ating during genetic transmission and develop-ment.
Our hypothesis i  that the same appliesto language, not at the genetic but at the cul-tural level.
We hypothesise that language for-mation and evolution take place at the level oflanguage itself, without any change in the ge-netic make up of the agents.
Language recruitsand exploits available brain capacities of theagents but does not require any capacity whichis not already needed for other activities (seealso (Batali, 1998), (Kirby and Hurford, 1997)).The present paper focuses on the lexicon.
Itproposes a model to explain spontaneous lexi-con evolution, driven solely by internal factors.In order to have any explanatory force at all,we cannot put into the model the ingredientsthat we try to explain.
Innovation, mainte-nance of variation, and change should followas emergent properties of the operation of themodel.
Obtaining variation is not obvious, be-1243cause a language community should also have anatural tendency towards coherence, otherwisecommunication would not be effective.
An ade-quate explanatory model of lexicon change musttherefore show \[1\] how a coherent lexicon mayarise in a group of agents, \[2\] how neverthelessthe lexicon may remain internally varied and ex-hibit constant innovation, and \[3\] how some ofthis variation may be amplified to become dom-inant in the population.
These three quite dif-ficult challenges are taken up in the next threesections of the paper.2 How a coherent  lex icon  may ar i seTo investigate concretely how a lexicon mayoriginate, be transmitted from one generationto the next, and evolve, we have developed aminimal model of language use in a dynam-ically evolving population, called the naminggame (Steels, 1996).
The naming game hasbeen explored through computational simula-tions and is related to systems proposed andinvestigated by (Oliphant, 1996), (MacLennan,1991), (Werner and Dyer, 1991), a.o.
It has evenbeen implemented on robotic agents who de-velop autonomously a shared lexicon groundedin their sensori-motor experiences (Steels andVogt, 1997), (Steels, 1997).
The naming gamefocuses on associating form and meaning.
Ob-viously in human natural languages both formand meaning are non-atomic entities with com-plex internal structure, but the results reportedhere do not depend on this internal complexity.We assume a set of agents .A where eachagent a E ,4 has contact with a set of ob-jects O = {o0, ..., on}.
The set of objectsconstitutes the environment of the agents.
Aword is a sequence of letters randomly drawnfrom a finite alphabet.
The agents are all as-sumed to share the same alphabet.
A lexicon ?is a time-dependent relation between objects,words, and a score.
Each agent a E A hashis own set of words W~,t and his own lexiconLa,t C Oa ?
Wa,t ?
J~, which is initially empty.An agent a is therefore defined at a time t as apair at =< W~,t, La,t >.
There is the possibil-ity of synonymy and homonymy: An agent canassociate a single word with several objects anda given object with several words.
It is not re-quired that all agents have at all times the sameset of words and the same lexicon.We assume that environmental conditionsidentify a context C C O.
The speaker selectsone object as the topic of this context fs E C.He signals this topic using extra-linguistic com-munication (such as through pointing).
Basedon the interpretation of this signalling, thehearer constructs an object score 0.0 < eo <_ 1.0for each object o E C reflecting the likelihoodthat o is the speaker's topic.
If there is absolutecertainty, one object has a score of 1.0 and theothers are all 0.0.
If there is no extra-linguisticcommunication, the likelihood of all objects isthe same.
If there is only vague extra-linguisticcommunication, the hearer has some idea whatthe topic is, but with less certainty.
The mean-ing scope parameter am determines the numberof object candidates the hearer is willing to con-sider.
The meaning focus parameter Cm deter-mines the tolerance to consider objects that arenot the center of where the speaker pointed to.In the experiments reported in this paper, theobject-score is determined by assuming that allobjects are positioned on a 2-dimensional grid.The distance d between the topic and the otherobjects determines the object-score, such that1eobject -- 1 + (?_~)2 (1))Cm is the meaning focus factor.To name the topic, the speaker etrieves fromhis lexicon all the associations which involve fs.This set is called the association-set of fs.
Leto E O be an object, a E ?4 be an agent, and t atime moment, then the association-set of o isAo,a,t = {< o ,w,u  >l< o ,w,u  >e La,t} (2)Each of the associations in this set suggests aword w to use for identifying o with a score0.0 _< u _< 1.0.
The speaker orders the wordsbased on these scores.
He then chooses the as-sociation with the largest score and transmitsthe word which is part of this association to thehearer.Next the hearer receives the word w trans-mitted by the speaker.
To handle stochasticitythe hearer not only considers the word itself aset of candidate words W related to w. Theseare all the words in the word-set of the hearerWh,t that are either equal to w or related withsome distance to w. The form scope parameter1244a/determines  how far this distance can be.
Ascore is imposed over the members of the set ofcandidate words:1= 1 + (3)?I is the form-focus factor.
The higher thisfactor, the sharper the hearer has been able toidentify the word produced by the speaker, andtherefore the less tolerant he hearer is going tobe to accept other candidates.For each word wj in W, the hearer thenretrieves the association-set that contains it.He constructs a score-matrix which containsfor each object a row and for each word-form a column.
The first column contains theobject-scores eo, the first row the form-scoresm~.
Each cell in the inner-matrix contains theassociation-score for the relation between theobject and the word-form in the lexicon of thehearer:Wl W2 .
.
.mw I mw2 ...O1 eol u (o \ ]  ,Wl > U~Ol ,w2  ...02 Co2 U<o2,w\] > U<o2,w2> ...Obviously many cells in the matrix may beempty (and then set to 0.0), because a certainrelation between an object and a word-form maynot be in the lexicon of the hearer.
Note alsothat there may be objects identified by lexiconlookup which are not in the initial context C.They are added to the matrix, but their object-score is 0.0.The final state of an inner matrix cell of thescore matrix is computed by taking a weightedsum of (1) the object-score o on its row, (2)the word-form score m~ on its column, and (3)the association-score a<o,~> in the cell itself.Weights indicate how strong the agent is will-ing to rely on each source of information.
Oneobject-word pair will have the best score andthe corresponding object is the topic fh chosenby the hearer.
The association in the lexicon ofthis object-word pair is called the winning asso-ciation.
This choice integrates extra-linguisticinformation (the object-score), word-form am-biguity (the word-form-score), and the currentstate of the hearer's lexicon (the association-score).The hearer then indicates to the speakerwhat topic he identified.
In real-world languagegames, this could be through a subsequent ac-tion or through another linguistic interaction.When a decision could be made and fh = fsthe game succeeds, otherwise it fails.The following adaptations take place by thespeaker and the hearer based on the outcome ofthe game.1.
The  game succeeds This means thatspeaker and hearer agree on the topic.
To re-enforce the lexicon, the speaker increments thescore u of the associa~on that he preferred, andhence used, with a fixed quantity ~.
And decre-ments the score of the n competing associationswith ~.
0.0 and 1.0 remain the lower and up-perbound of u.
An association is competing if itassociates the topic fs with another word.
Thehearer increments by ~ the score of the associ-ation that came out with the best score in thescore-matrix, and decrements he n competingassociations with ~.
An association is compet-ing if it associates the wordform of the winningassociation with another meaning.2.
The  game fails There are several cases:1.
The Speaker does not know a wordIt could be that the speaker failed to re-trieve from the lexicon an association coveringthe topic.
In that case, the game fails but thespeaker may create a new word-form w r and as-sociate this with the topic fs in his lexicon.
Thishappens with a word creation probability we.2.
The hearer does not know the word.In other words there is no association in thelexicon of the hearer involving the word-form ofthe winning association.
In that case, the gameends in failure but the hearer may extend hislexicon with a word absorption probability wa.He associates the word-form with the highestform-score to the object with the highest object-score.3.
There is a mismatch between fh and fs.In this case, both speaker and hearer haveto adapt their lexicons.
The speaker and thehearer decrement with ~ the association thatthey used.Figure 1 shows that the model achieves ourfirst objective.
It displays the results of an ex-periment where in phase 1 a group of 20 agentsdevelops from scratch a shared lexicon for nam-ing 10 objects.
Average game success reaches1245.
i ,,' .,06o i : , .
,~|1 2 "~-~30 ~ , ,-200 ~ .
0Closed~em ~ One ag,ntchanges ~ On, Igl.t ?ha.gesC, eVely200 games ~ every200 gamesFigure 1: The graphs show for a population of20 agents and 10 meanings how a coherent setof form-meaning pairs emerges (phase 1).
Ina second phase, an in- and outflow of agents(1 in/outflow per 200 games) is introduced, thelanguage stays the same and high success andcoherence is maintained.a maximum and lexicon coherence (measuredas the average spread in the population of themost dominant form-meaning pairs) is high (100%) In the early stage there is important lexi-con change as new form-meaning pairs need tobe generated from scratch by the agents.
Lexi-con change is defined to take place when a newform-meaning pair overtakes another one in thecompetition for the same meaning.Phase 2 demonstrates that the lexicon is re-silient to a flux in the population.
An in- andoutflow of agents is introduced.
A new agentcoming into the population has no knowledge atall about the existing set of conventions.
Suc-cess and coherence therefore dip but quickly re-gain as the new agents acquire the existing lex-icon.
High coherence is maintained as well ashigh average game success.
Between the begin-ning of the flux and the end (after 30,000 lan-guage games), the population has been renewed5 times.
Despite of this, the lexicon has notchanged.
It is transmitted across generationswithout change.3 How a lex icon  may innovate  andmainta in  var ia t ionSo, although this model explains the forma-tion and transmission of a lexicon it does notexplain why a lexicon might change.
Oncea winner-take-all situation emerges, competingforms are completely suppressed and no new in-novation arises.
Our hypothesis i  that innova-tion and maintenance of variation is caused bystochasticity in language use (Steels and Ka-plan, 1998).
Stochasticity naturally arises inreal world human communication and we verymuch experienced this in robotic experiments aswell.
Stochasticity is modeled by a number ofadditional stochastic operators:1.
Stochasticity in non-linguistic ommunica-tion can be investigated by probabilisticallyintroducing a random error as to which ob-ject is used as topic to calculate the object-score.
The probability is called the topic-recognition-stochasticity T.2.
Stochasticity in the message transmissionprocess is caused by an error in produc-tion by the speaker or an error in percep-tion by the hearer.
It is modeled witha second stochastic operator F, the form-stochasticity, which is the probability thata character in the string constituting theword form mutates.3.
Stochasticity in the lexicon is caused by er-rors in memory lookup by the speaker orthe hearer.
These errors are modeled us-ing a third stochastic operator based ona parameter A, the memory-stochasticity,which alters the scores of the associationsin the score matrix in a probabilistic fash-ion.The hearer has to take a broader scope intoaccount in order to deal with stochasticity.
Heshould also decrease the focus so that alterna-tive candidates get a better chance to compete.The broader scope and the weaker focus has alsothe side effect that it will maintain variation inthe population.
This is illustrated in figure 2.
Inthe first phase there is a high form-stochasticityas well as a broad form-scope.
Different formscompete to express the same meaning and noneof them manages to become the winner.
Whenform-stochasticity is set to 0.0, the innovationdies out but the broad scope maintains bothvariations.
One form ("ludo") emerges as thewinner but another form ("mudo") is also main-tained in the population.
There is no longer awinner-take-all situation because agents toler-ate the variation.
We conclude the following:12460,9 ~"O,a I"0,7 5" i.U~o.~ ?
I iii;o,4 ~r ~ t'IUDO?
'~+ 1 2 0,2 "t"0,I t0o F=0,3 ~ F=D ~ F=Ot1~e$Figure 2: Competition diagram in the presenceof form-stochasticity and a broad form-scope.The diagram shows all the forms competing forthe same meaning and the evolution of theirscore.
When F = 0.3 new word-forms areoccasionally introduced resulting in new word-meaning associations.
When F = 0.0 the in-novation dies out although some words are stillable to maintain themselves due to the hearer'sbroad focus.1.
Stochasticity introduces innovation in thelexicon.
There is no longer a clear winner-take-all situation, whereby the lexicon stays in anequilibrium state.
Instead, there is a rich dy-namics where new forms appear, new associa-tions are established, and the domination pat-tern of associations i  challenged.
The differentsources of stochasticity each innovate in theirown way: Topic-stochasticity introduces newform-meaning associations for existing forms.Form-stochasticity introduces new forms andhence potentially new form-meaning associa-tions.
Memory-stochasticity shifts the balanceamong the word-meaning associations compet-ing for the expression of the same meaning.2.
Tolerance to stochasticity, due to a broadscope (high trf) and a weak focus (low f),maintains variation.
For example, suppose aform "ludo" is transmitted by the speaker butthe hearer has only "mudo" in his lexicon.
Ifthe form-focus factor is low and if both formsrefer in the respective agents to the same ob-ject, their communication will be successful, be-cause the word-score of "mudo" will not devi-ate that much from "ludo".
Neither the hearernor the speaker will change their lexicons.
Sim-ilar effects arise when the agent broadens themeaning scope and weakens its meaning focusto deal with meaning stochasticity, caused byerror or uncertainty in the non-linguistic om-munication.4 How var ia t ion  is ampl i f iedAlthough stochasticity and the agent's in-creased tolerance to cope with stochasticity ex-plain innovation and the maintenance of varia-tion, they do not in themselves explain lexiconchange.
Particularly when a language is alreadyestablished, the new form-meaning pairs do notmanage to overtake the dominating pair.
Toget lexicon change we need an additional factorthat amplifies ome of the variations present inthe population.
Several such factors are proba-bly at work.
The most obvious one is a changein the population.
New agents arriving in thecommunity may first acquire a minor variantwhich they then start to propagate further.
Af-ter a while this variant could become in turnthe dominant variant.
We have conducted a se-ries of experiments o test this hypothesis, withremarkable results.
Typically there is a periodof stability (even in the presence of uncertaintyand stochasticity) followed by a period of insta-bility and strong competition, again followed bya period of stasis.
This phenomenon has beenobserved for natural anguages and is known inbiology as punctuated equilibria (Eldredge andGould, 1972).The following are results of experiments fo-cusing on form-stochasticity.
Figure 3 showsthe average game success, lexicon coherence,and lexicon change for an evolving population.30,000 language games are shown.
It startswhen the population develops a lexicon fromscratch (phase 1).
Form-scope is constantlykept at a I -- 5 in other words five forms areconsidered similar to the world heard.
Initiallythere is no form-stochasticity.
In phase 2 a flowin the population is introduced with a new agentevery 100 games.
We see that there is no lexiconchange.
Success and Coherence is maintained athigh levels.
Then form-stochasticity is increasedto s igma/= 0.05 in phase 3.
Initially there isstill no lexicon change.
But gradually the lan-guage destabilises and rapid change is observed.Interestingly enough average game success andcoherence are maintained at high levels.
After1247'00 ~ .............. V~.-,.~,-" '~i : ~ ~ ~ ' ,  f'i "~ " ~ " ,20i : ',, ,~  ' ~i ~i:~, = / \] .L !~:i i~' i  , \]n i l  ?ht L/hguige~hlfl~l(og~ulat~?l)/-- '40: %.
:., %::::' =2: '2 , .
,o: eVtly 100 evely 100 F~)--  ~: ?
*mu o,,m*, ~ .~*o.
*o* ~*.~* \[Figure 3: The diagram shows that change re-quires both the presence of uncertainty andstochasticity, high tolerance (due to broad scopeand diffuse focus) and a flux in the popula-tion.
The lexicon is maintained even in the caseof population change (phase 2), but starts tochange when stochasticity is increased (phase3).a certain period a new phase of stability starts.A companion figure (figure 4) focuses onthe competition between different forms for thesame meaning.
In the initial stage there isa winner-take-all situation (the word "bagi").When stochasticity is present, new forms startto emerge but they are not yet competitive.It is only when the flux in the population ispositive that we see one competitor "pagi" be-coming strong enough to eventually overtake"bagi".
"bagi" resulted from a misunderstand-ing of "pagi".
There is a lot of instability asother words also enter into competition, giv-ing successive dominance of "kagi", then "kugi"and then "kugo".
A winner-take-all situationarises with "kugo" and therefore a new periodof stability sets in.
Similar results can be seenfor stochasticity in non-linguistic ommunica-tion and in the lexicon.5 Conc lus ionsThe paper has presented a theory that explainsspontaneous lexicon change based on internalfactors.
The theory postulates that (1) coher-ence in language is due to self-organisation, i.e.the presence of a positive feedback loop betweenthe choice for using a form-meaning pair andthe success in using it, (2) innovation is dueio.~ .I- IJo~ ?
j?
"+ !
1 20,6 t" i I~@li ', One =gent ', One agent Small0,5 ?i Cle~d ~tm i chanties : cha;~o es St?
?h,~icity0,4 + wer~ 100 ,, wlrf  100 F,.O,06games : gameso,z +0,2 ?o,I ,J- : DA61 BOO1" \^',1, f,'~ I~@l~"" ~ vaa,:', flJl ;~i fi.1 i: I.
~*o, '~?LI, L : __Figure 4: The diagram shows the competitionbetween different forms for the same meaning.We clearly see first a rapid winner-take-all situa-tion with the word "bagi", then the rise of com-petitors until one ("pagi") overtakes the others.A period of instability follows after which a newdominant winner ("kugo") emerges.to stochasticity, i.e.
errors in form transmis-sion, non-linguistic ommunication, or memoryaccess, (3) maintenance of variation is due tothe tolerance agents need to exhibit in order tocope with stochasticity, namely the broadeningof scope and the weakening of focus, and finally(4) amplification of variation happens due tochange in the population.
Only when all fourfactors are present will effective change be ob-served.These hypotheses have been tested using aformal model of language use in a dynamicallyevolving population.
The model has been im-plemented and subjected to extensive computa-tional simulations, validating the hypotheses.6 AcknowledgementThe research described in this paper was con-ducted at the Sony Computer Science Labora-tory in Paris.
The simulations presented havebeen built on top of the BABEL toolkit de-veloped by Angus McIntyre (McIntyre, 1998)of Sony CSL.
Without this superb toolkit, itwould not have been possible to perform the re-quired investigations within the time available.We are also indebted to Mario Tokoro of SonyCSL Tokyo for continuing to emphasise the im-portance of stochasticity in complex adaptivesystems.1248ReferencesJ.
Batali.
1998.
Computational simulations ofthe emergence of grammar.
In J. Hurford,C.
Knight, and M. Studdert-Kennedy, ed-itors, Approaches to the Evolution of Lan-guage.
Edinburgh University Press, Edin-burgh.N.
Chomsky.
1990.
Rules and representations.Brain and Behavior Science, 3:1-15.N.
Eldredge and S. Gould.
1972.
Punctuatedequilibria: an alternativeto phyletic gradual-ism.
In T. Schopf, editor, Models in palaeobi-ology, pages 82-115, San Francisco.
Freemanand Cooper.S.
Kirby and J. Hurford.
1997.
Learning, cul-ture and evolution in the origin of linguisticconstraints.
In P. Husbands and I. Harvey,editors, Proceedings of the Fourth EuropeanConference on Artificial Life, pages 493-502.MIT Press.W.
Labov.
1994.
Principles of LinguisticChange.
Volume 1: Internal Factors.
Back-well, Oxford.B.
MacLennan.
1991.
Synthetic ethology: Anapproach to the study of communication.
InC. Langton, editor, Artificial Life II, Red-wood City, Ca.
Addison-Wesley Pub.
Co.A.
McIntyre.
1998.
Babel: A testbed for re-search in origins of language.
To appear inCOLING-ACL 98, Montreal.A.
McMahon.
1994.
Understanding LanguageChange.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge.M.
Oliphant.
1996.
The dilemma of saussureancommunication.
Biosystems, 1-2(37):31-38.L.
Steels and F. Kaplan.
1998.
Stochasticity asa source of innovation in language games.
InC. Adami, R. Belew, H. Kitano, and C. Tay-lor, editors, Proceedings of Artificial Life VI,Los Angeles, June.
MIT Press.L.
Steels and P. Vogt.
1997.
Grounding adap-tive language games in robotic agents.
InI.
Harvey and P. Husbands, editors, Proceed-ings of the 4th European Conference on Arti-ficial Life, Cambridge, MA.
The MIT Press.L.
Steels.
1996.
Self-organizing vocabularies.In C. Langton, editor, Proceeding of Alife V,Nara, Japan.L.
Steels.
1997.
The origins of syntax in vi-sually grounded robotic agents.
In M. Pol-lack, editor, Proceedings of the 15th Interna-tional Joint Conference on Artificial Intelli-gence, Los Angeles.
Morgan Kauffman Pub-lishers.G.
M. Werner and M. G. Dyer.
1991.
Evolutionof communication i  artificial organisms.
InC. G Langton, C. Taylor, and J.D.
Farmer,editors, Artificial Life II, Vol.X of SFI Stud-ies in the Sciences of Complexity, RedwoodCity, Ca.
Addison-Wesley Pub.1249Spontane  Verander ingen van het  Lex iconDit artikel argumenteert dat taalevolutie l~nverklaard worden aan de hand van de stochas-ticiteit die zich voordoet bij taalgebruik in real-istische omstandigheden.
Deze hypothese wordtaangetoond door taalgebruik te modelleren viataalspelen in een evoluerende populatie vanagenten.
Wij tonen aan dat de artifici~le talendie de agenten spontaan ontwikkelen via zelf-organisatie, niet evolueren, zelfs als de popu-latie verandert.
Dan introduceren we stochas-ticiteit in taalgebruik en tonen aan dat dit leidttot innovatie (nieuwe vormen en nieuwe vorm-betekenis associaties) en tot het behoud vanvariatie in de populatie.
Sommige van deze vari-aries worden dominant, vooral als de populatieverandert.
Op die manier kunnen we de lexicaleveranderingen verklaren.Changements  spontan~s de lex iqueCe document d6fend l'id@e que les change-ments linguistiques peuvent ~tre expliqu6s parla stochasticit6 observ@es dans l'utilisation effec-tive du langage naturel.
Nous soutenons cetteth~se n utilisant un module informatique min-imal des usages linguistiques ous la forme dejeux de langage dans une population d'agentsen 6volution.
Nous montrons que les languesartificielles que les agents d6veloppent spon-' tan~ment en s'auto-organisant, '~voluent pasm~me si la population se modifie.
Nous in-troduisons ensuite, dans l'utilisation du fan-gage, de la stochasticit~ et montrons commentun niveau constant d'innovation apparait (nou-velles formes, nouveaux sens, nouvelles associa-tions entre formes et sens) et comment des vari-ations peuvent se maintenir dans la population.Certaines de ces variations prennent la place deconventions lexicales existantes, en particulierdans le cas de populations qui @voluent, ce quipermet d'expliquer les changements du lexique.1250
