Multi l ingual Computat ional  Semantic Lexicons in Action: TheWYSINNWYG Approach to NLPEve lyne  V iegasNew Mexico State UniversityComput ing  Research LaboratoryLas Cruces, NM 88003USAviegas?crl, nmsu.
eduAbst rac tMuch effort has been put into computational lex-icons over the years, and most systems give muchroom to (lexical) semantic data.
However, in thesesystems, the effort put on the study and representa-tion of lexical items to express the underlying contin-uum existing in 1) language vagueness and polysemy,and 2) language gaps and mismatches, has remainedembryonic.
A sense numeration approach fails froma theoretical point of view to capture the core mean-ing of words, let alne relate word meanings to oneanother, and complicates the task of NLP by multi-plying ambiguities in analysis and choices in genera-tion.
In this paper, I study computational semanticlexicon representation from a multilingual point ofview, reconciling different approaches to lexicon rep-resentation: i) vagueness for lexemes which have amore or less finer grained semantics with respect oother languages; ii) underspecification for lexemeswhich have multiple related facets; and, iii) lexi-cal rules to relate systematic polysemy to systematicambiguity.
I build on a What You See Is Not Neces-sarily What You Get (WYSINNWYG) approach toprovide the NLP system with the "right" lexical dataalready tuned towards a particular task.
In order todo so, I argue for a lexical semantic approach to lex-icon representation.
I exemplify my study througha cross-linguistic investigation  spatially-based x-pressions.1 A Cross - l ingu is t i c  Invest igat ion  onSpat ia l l y -based  Express ionsIn this paper, I argue for computational seman-tic lexicons as active knowledge sources in or-der to provide Natural Language Processing (NLP)systems with the "right" lexical semantic represen-tation to accomplish a particular task.
In otherwords, lexicon entries are "pre-digested', via a lex-ical processor, to best fit an NLP task.
ThisWhat You See (in your lexicon) Is Not NecessarilyWhat You Get (as input to your program) (WYSIN-NWYG) approach requires the adoption of a sym-bolic paradigm.
Formally, I use a combinationof three different approaches to lexicon represen-tations: (1) lexico-semantic vagueness, for lexemeswhich have a more or less finer grained semanticswith respect o other languages (for instance n inSpanish is vague between the Contact and Containersenses of the Location, whereas in English it is finergrained, with on for the former and in for the lat-ter); (2) lexico-semantic underspecification, for lex-emes which have multiple related facets (such as forinstance, door which is underspecified with respectto its Aperture or PhysicalObject meanings); and,(3) lexical rules, to relate systematic polysemy tosystematic ambiguity (such as the Food Or Animalrule for lamb).I illustrate the WYSINNWYG approach via across-linguistic investigation (English, French, Span-ish) on spatially-based expressions, as lexicalised,for instance, in the prepositions in, above, on, .
.
.
,verbs traverser, ("go" across) in French, predicativenouns montde, (going up) in French, or in adjec-tives upright.
Processing spatially-based xpressionsin a multilingual environment is a difficult problemas these lexemes exhibit a high degree of polysemy(in particular for prepositions) and of language gaps(i.e., when there is not a one-to-one mapping be-tween languages, whatever the linguistic level; lex-ical, semantic, syntactic, etc).
Therefore, process-ing these expressions or words in a multilingual en-vironment minimally involves having a solution fortreating: (a) syntactic divergences, wim across --+traverser ... h la nage in French (cross ... swim-ming); (b) semantic mismatches, river translatesinto fleuve, rivi~re in French; and (c), cases which liein between clear-cut cases of language gaps (stand --+se tenir debout/se tenir, lie --~ se tenir allongg/setenir).
Researchers have dealt with a) and/or b),whereas WYSINNWYG presents a uniform treat-ment of a), b) and c), by allowing words to havetheir meanings vary in context.In this paper, I restrict my cross-linguistic studyto the (lexical) semantics of words with a fo-cus on spatially-based xpressions, and consider lit-eral or non-figurative meanings only.
In the nextsections, I address representational problems whichmust be solved in order to best capture the phenom-1321ena of ambiguity, polysemy and language gaps froma lexical semantic viewpoint.
I then present hreedifferent ways of capturing the phenomena: lexico-semantic vagueness, lexico-semantic underspecifica-tion and lexical rules.1.1 The  Language Gap Prob lemUpon a close examination of empirical data, it isoften difficult to classify a translation pair as a syn-tactic divergence (e.g., Dorr, 1990; Levin and Niren-burg, 1993), as in he limped up the stairs ~ il montales marches en boitant (French) (he went up thestairs limping) or a semantic mismatch (e.g., Palmerand Zhibiao, 1995; Kameyama et al, 1991), as in lie,stand ~ se tenir (French).
Moreover, lie and standcould be translated as se tenir couchg/allongd (belying) and se tenir debout (be up) respectively, thuspresenting a case of divergence, or they could bothbe translated into French as se tenir, thus present-ing a case of conflation, (Talmy, 1985).
Dependingon the semantics of the first argument, one mightwant to generate the divergence, (e.g., se tenir de-bout/couche'), or not (e.g., se tenir), thus consideringse tenir as a mismatch as in (1):(1) Pablo se tenait au milieu de la chambre.
(Sartre)(Pablo stood in the middle of the bedroom.
)In order to account for all these language varia-tions, one cannot "freeze" the meanings of languagepairs.
In section 2.1, I show that by adopting a con-tinuum perspective, that is using a knowledge-basedapproach where I make the distinction betweenlexical and semantic knowledge, cases in betweensyntactic divergences and semantic mismatches (setenir) can be accounted for in a uniform way.
Prac-tically, the proposed method can be applied to in-terlingua pproaches and transfer approaches, whenthese latter encode a layer of semantic information.1.2 The  Lex icon  Representat ion  Prob lemWithin the paradigm of knowledge-based ap-proaches, there are still lexicon representation issuesto be addressed in order to treat these language gaps.It has been well documented in the literature of thispast decade that a sense enumeration approach failsfrom a theoretical point of view to capture the coremeaning of words (e.g., (Ostler and Atkins, 1992),(Boguraev and Pustejovsky, 1990),..) and compli-cates from a practical viewpoint he task of NLP bymultiplying ambiguities in analysis and choices ingeneration.Within Machine Translation (MT), this approachhas led researchers to "add" ambiguity in a lan-guage which did not have it from a monolingualperspective.
Ambiguity is added at the lexicallevel within transfer based approaches ("riverl" --+"rivi~re"; "river2" --~ "fleuve"); and at the semanticlevel within interlingua based approaches ("rivi~re"--+ RIVER - DESTINATION: RIVER; "fleuve"RIVER - DESTINATION: SEA; "river" --+ RIVERDESTINATION: SEA, RIVER), whereas again"river" in English is not ambiguous with respect oits destination.In this paper, I show that ambiguity can be min-imised if one stops considering knowledge sources as"static" ones in order to consider them as act iveones instead.
More specifically, I show that buildingon a computational theory of lexico-semantic vague-ness and underspecification which merges computa-tional concerns with theoretical concerns enables anNLP system to cope with polysemy and languagegaps in a more effective way.Let us consider the following simplified input se-mantics (IS):(2) PositionState(Theme:Plate,Location:Table),This can be generated in Spanish as El plato estaen la mesa; where Location is lexicalised as en inFigure 1.To generate (2) into English, requires the systemto further specify Location for English as LocCon-tact, in order to generate The plate is on the table,where on1 corresponds to the Spanish enl, sub-senseof en, as shown in Figure 1.; TL ' - 'hL kN~atltm desfinathm I~ath ..: l(x'~Contac' ,~-  .
.~ta in~ ~Lc~Cont aJncr i~111(~ L~Building ' b~'~ont;~t" " g thr?ul~h / / / / / /  /Fre~e~: mrl dar~ I dan~ sur2 dans~ Ic-long-~k I i-trax~r~c l?=;:~lh; onl |tt in2 on2 inml" alon~l ihmu~hl--....: .
.
,.
_Lb?instrument?n6Figure 1: Subset of the Semantic Types for Prepo-sitionsFrom a monolingual perspective, there is no needto differentiate in Spanish between the 3 types of Lo-cation as LocContact, LocContainer and LocBuild-ing, as these distinctions are irrelevant for Span-1322ish analysis or generation, with respect o Figure1.
However, within a multilingual framework, it be-comes necessary to further distinguish Location, inorder to generate English from (2).
In the next sec-tions, I will show that lexical semantic hierarchiesare better suited to account for polysemous lexemesthan lexical or semantic hierarchies alone, for multi-lingual (and monolingual) processing.2 The  WYSINNWYG ApproachI argue that treating lexical ambiguity or polysemyand language gaps computationally requires 1) fine-grained lexical semantic type hierarchies, and 2) toallow words to have their meanings vary in context.Much effort has been put into lexicons over theyears, and most systems give more room to lexicaldata.
However, most approaches tolexicon represen-tation in NLP systems have been motivated more bycomputational concerns (economy, efficiency) thanby the desire for a computational linguistic account,where the concern of explaining a phenomenon is asimportant as pure computational concerns.
In thispaper, I adopt a computational linguistic perspec-tive, showing however, how these representations arebest fitted to serve knowledge-driven NLP systems.2.1 A Cont inuum Perspective on LanguageGapsI argue that resolving language gaps (divergences,mismatches, and cases in between) is a generationissue and minimally involves:1) using a knowledge-based approach to representthe lexical semantics of lexemes;2) developing a computational theory of lexico-semantic vagueness, underspecification, andlexical rules;In this paper, I only address lexical representa-tional issues, leaving the generation issues (such asthe use of planning techniques, the integration of theprocess in lexical choice) aside)I illustrate through some examples below, how acompositional semantics approach, e.g.
knowledge-based, can help in dealing with language gaps.
2 Iwill use the French (se tenir) and English (stand,lie) simplified entries below, in my illustration ofmismatches between the generator and the lexicons.Semantic types are coded in the sense feature:1Generation issues are fully discussed in (Beale and Vie-gas, 1996).
This first implementation of some language gapshas a very limited capability for the treatment of vaguenessand underspecifieation; although it takes advantage of the se-mantic type hierarchy, it still lacks the benefit of having thelexical type hierarchy presented here.2Note that absence of compositionality, such as in idiomskick the (proverbial) bucket or syntagmatic expressions heavysmoker, is coded in the lexicon.\[key: "se- ten i r3" ,form: \[orth: \[ exp: "se ten i r " \ ] \ ] ,sense: \[sem: \[name: Pos i t ion -s ta te \ ] ,  .
.
.
\ ]\[key: "s tand2" ,form: \[orth: \[ exp: "stand"\]\],sense: \[sem: \[name: P s V e r t i c a l \ ]  .
.
.
.
\]\[key: "fief",form: \[orth: \[ exp: "lie"I\],sense: \[sem: \[name: PsHorizontal\] .
.
.
.
\]Figure 2 illustrates a subset of the Semantic TypeHierarchy (STH) common to all dictionaries and oftwo subsets of the Lexical Type Hierarchy (LTH) forFrench and English.~ '~.
.
.
.~  STH* .
?
??
,  ?
, ,/ \PositionState Horizontal Vertical' ~ V e r t l e  1:: ~ b e lEnglish........................................ LTH........... Link between STH and LTHsTLink (Translation Link) between language LTHsFigure 2: Example of an STH linked to a Fragmentof the French and English LTHs.I illustrate below three main types of gaps betweenthe input semantics (IS) to the generator and thelexicon entries (LEX) of the language in which togenerate.
I focus on the generation of the predicate:(i) IS - LEX exact match Generating, inFrench, from the simplified IS below (3),(3) Pos i t ionState(agent : john,against :wal l )is easy as there is a single French word in (3) that lex-icalises the concept PositionState, which is se tenir.Therefore se ten i r  is generated in John se tenait  con-tre le tour  (John was/(stood) against he wall).1323(ii) IS - LEX vagueness Generating, in French,from the partial IS below (4),(4) PsYertical (agent : john, against : wall)needs extra work from the generator, with respectto the lexicon entry for French.
In Figure 2, onecan see in STH that PsVertical is a sub-type of Po-sitionState, which has a mapping in LTH for Frenchto se-tenir3.
This illustrates a case of vagueness be-tween English and French.
In this case, the gener-ator will generate the same sentence John se tenaitcontre lemur ,  as is the case for the exact match in(i).
Note that generating the divergence se tenaitdebout (stand upright) although correct and gram-matical, would emphasise the position of John whichwas not necessarily focused in (4).
The divergencecan be generated by "composing" PsVertical as Po-sitionState (lexicalised as se tenir) and Vertical (lex-icalised as debout).
(iii) IS - LEX Underspec i f i ca t ion  Generating,in French, from the partial IS below (5),(5) PsYertical (agent : john, against :vall,time :tl) & PsHorizontal (agent : john,against:wall,time:t2) & tl<t2needs extra work from the lexicon processor, withrespect o the entries presented here, as one doesnot want to end up generating John se tint contre lemur  puis il se t int contre lemur  (John was againstthe wall then he was against he wall).
Because ofthe conjunctions here, one cannot just consider setenir as vague with respect o lie and stand.
Thisillustrates a lexicon in action, where the lexical pro-cessor must process se tenir as underspecified:PositionState -+ PsVertical V PsHorizontalThe lexical processor will thus produce the diver-gences se tenir debout (stand) and se tenir allongd(lying) to generate (with some generation process-ing such as lexical choice, ellipsis, pronominalisa-tion, etc) John se tenait (debout) eontre lemur  puiss'allongea contre lui (John was standing against hewall then he lied against it).Where the continuum perspective comes in, is thatwe do not want to "freeze" the meanings of wordsonce and for all.
As we just saw, in French onemight want to generate se tenir debout or just setenir  depending on the semantics of its argumentsand also depending on the context as in (5).In the WYSINNWYG approach, words are al-lowed to have their "meanings" vary in context.
Inother words, the literal meaning(s) coded in the lex-icon is/are the "closest" possible meaning(s) of aword within the STH context, and by enriching thediscourse context (dc), one ends up "specialising"or "generalising" the meaning(s) of the word, usingformally two hierarchies: semantic (STH) and lexi-cal (LTH), enabling different ypes of lexicon repre-sentations: vagueness, underspecification a d lexicalrules.2.2 A Tru ly  Mul t i l ingua l  H ierarchyMultilingual exicons are usually monolingual lex-icons connected via translation links (Tlinks),whereas truly multilingual lexicons, as defined by(Cahill and Gazdar, 1995), involve n 4- 1 hierar-chies, thus involving an additional abstract hierarchycontaining information shared by two or more lan-guages.
Figure 3 illustrates the STH which is sharedby all lexicons (French, English, Spanish, etc), andthe lexical MLTH which involves the abstract hier-archy shared by all LTHs.grH TAPr.perly- -  ~ ln te iner  ?~mtaclI /I LTH t ' L l l~4M I n I ,~C.nla~ I - ,  : .
.... .
.
..: .
.
.
.
.
.i . "
, ,  ",:" .
f " , .
.  "
.i ~ ~2 , , , ,  .
.
~ '  ~ '  "// ' -prep~,~ ~,.;~,~.
.
.
.
.
.~~oo..LFigure 3: Subset of the Multilingual Hierarchy forPrepositionsThe lexicons themselves are also organised as lan-guage lexical type hierarchies (Spanish LTH, EnglishLTH in Figure 3).
For instance, the English dictio-nary (eng-lexeme) has the English prepositions (eng-prep) as one of its sub-types, which itself has as sub-types all the English prepositions (along, through,on, in, ...).
These prepositions have in turn sub-types (for instance, on has onl, on2, ...), which canthemselves have subtypes (onl l ,  on12, ...).
All theselanguage dependent LTHs inherit part of their infor-mation from a truly Multilingual Lexical Type Hi-1324erarchy (MLTH), which contains information sharedby all lexicons.
There might be several levels of shar-ing, for instance, family-related languages haring.Lexical types are linked to the STH via their lan-guage LTH and the MLTH, so that these lexiconscan be used by either monolingual or multilingualprocessing.
The advantages of a MTLH extend to1) lexicon acquisition, by allowing lexicons to inheritinformation from the abstract level hierarchy.
Thisis even more useful when acquiring family-relatedlanguages; and 2) robustness, as the lexical proces-sors can try to "make guesses" on the assignment ofa sense to a lexeme absent from a dictionary, basedon similarities in morphology or orthography, withother family-related language lexemes,2.3 Vagueness ,  Underspec i f i ca t ion  andLex ica l  Ru lesThe STH along with the LTH allow the lexicogra-phers to leave the meaning of some lexemes as vagueor underspecified.
The vagueness or underspecifica-tion typing allows the lexical processor to specialiseor generalise the meaning of a lexeme, for a particu-lar task and on a needed basis.
Formally, generalisa-tion and specialisation can be done in various ways,as specified for instance in (Kameyama et al, 1991),(Poesio, 1996), (Mahesh et al, 1997).2.3.1 Lex icon  VaguenessA lexicon entry is considered as vague when its se-mantics is typed using a general monomorphic typecovering multiple senses, as is the case of the Frenchentry "se-tenir3", or the Spanish preposition en, asrepresented in (6).
(6) \[key: "en" ,form: \ [or th:  \[ exp:  "en" \ ]  .
.
.
.sense: \[sem: \[name: Location3 .
.
.
.
\]It is at processing time, and only if needed, thatthe semantic type Location for en can be further pro-cessed as LocContact, LocContainer, ... to generatethe English prepositions (on, at, ...).Lexicon vagueness i represented by mapping thecitation form lex  of any word x appearing in a corpusto a semantic monomorphic type m, which belongsto STH.
Let us consider MAPS, the function whichlinks l ex  to STH, dc a discourse context where lexcan appear, and _ the immediate type/sub-type r -lation between types of STH, then:(7) x is vague iff3rn E STH : rn = MAPS(dc, lex(x))A3n, oE STH:n  EmAoC_rnAn?oAVrESTH: rErn : /~qESTH:qCr3I have not investigated this issue yet, but see (Cahill,1998) for promising results with respect o making guesses onphonology.In other words, l ex  is vague, if m is in a type/sub-type relation with all its immediate sub-types.2.3.2 Lex icon  Underspec i f i ca t ionThe meaning of a lexeme is considered as underspeci-fled when its semantics i represented via a polymor-phic type, which presents a disjunction of semantictypes, 4 thus covering different po lysemous  enses,as is the case of the Spanish preposition "por" in(8), and typical examples in lexical semantics, suchas door which is typed as PHYSICAL_OBJECT-OR-APERTURE.
5(8) \[key: "por ' ,form: \ [o r th :  \[" exp:  "por ' \ ]  .
.
.
.sense: \[sem: \[name: Through; Along\] .
.
.
.
\]It is at processing time only, and on a needed ba-sis only, that the semantic type Through-OR-Alongfor pot  can be further processed as either Through,or Along, ..., thus allowing the generator or analyserto find the appropriate representation depending onthe task.
Disambiguating "por" to generate English,requires that the lexeme be embedded within thediscourse context, where the filled arguments of theprepositions will provide semantic information un-der constraints.
For instance, walk and r iver couldcontribute to the disambiguation of pot  as Along.Lexicon underspecification is represented by map-ping lex  (the citation form of a word x) to a semanticpolymorphic type p, which belongs to STH, then:(9) x is underspec i f led  iff3p E STH : rn = MAPS(dc, Iex(x))A3s C STH : p = Vs A Card(s) >_2In other words, lex  is underspecified, if p is a dis-junction of types, and no type/sub-type r lation isrequired.4See (Sanfillippo, 1998) and (Buitelaar, 1997) for differentcomputational treatments of underspecified representations.The former deals with multiple subcategorisations (whereas Iam also interested in polysemous enses), the latter includeshomonyms, which I agree with Pinkal (1995) should be leftapart.51 believe that lexico-semantic underspecification is con-cerned with polysemous lexemes only (such as door, book,e~c) and not homonyms (such as bank as financial-bank orriver-bank) called H-Type ambiguous in (Pinkal, 1995).
I be-lieve the H-Type ambiguous lexemes should be related viatheir lexical form only, while their semantic types should re-main unrelated, i.e., there is no needs to introduce a "disjunc-tion fallacy" as in (Poesio, 1996).
It might be the case thathomonyms require pragmatic underspecification as suggested,for instance, in (Nunberg, 1979), but in any case are beyondthe scope of this paper.13252.4 Lex ica l  Ru lesLexical rules (LRs) are used in WYSINNWYG torelate systematic ambiguity to systematic polysemy.They seem more appropriate than underspecificationfor relating the meanings of lexemes uch as "lamb"or "haddock" which can be either of type Animal orFood (Pustejovsky, 1995, pp.
224).
LRs and theirapplication time in NLP have received a lot of at-tention (e.g., Copestake and Briscoe, 1996; Viegas etal., 1996), therefore, I will not develop them furtherin this paper, as the rules themselves activated bythe lexical processor produce different entries, withneither type/sub-type r lations nor disjunction be-tween the semantic types of the old and new en-tries.
In WYSINNWYG, lexicon entries related viaLRs are neither vague nor underspecified.
For in-stance, the "grinding rule" of Copestake and Briscoefor linking the systematic Animal - Food polysemyas in mutton / / sheep or in French where we have aconflation in mouton, allows us to link the entriesin English and sub-senses in French, without hav-ing to cope with the semantic "disjunction fallacyproblem" of (Poesio, 1996).3 Conc lus ions  - Perspect ivesI have argued for act ive knowledge sourceswithin a knowledge-based approach, so that lexiconentries can be processed to best fit a particular NLPtask.
I adopted a computational linguistic perspec-tive in order to explain language phenomena suchas language gaps and polysemy.
I argued for se-mantic and lexical type hierarchies.
The former isshared by all dictionaries, whereas the latter can beorganised as a truly multilingual hierarchy.
In thatrespect, this work differs from (Han et al, 1996)in that I do not suggest an ontology per language,but argue on the contrary for one semantic hierar-chy shared by all dictionaries.
6 Other works whichhave dealt with mismatches, e.g., (Dorr and Voss,1998) with their interlingua nd knowledge repre-sentations, (S~rasset, 1994) with his "interlingua c-ceptations", or (Kameyama, et al 1991) with theirinfons, cannot account for cases which lie in betweenclear-cut cases of divergences and mismatches suchas the example "se tenir" discussed in this paper.I have shown that enabling lexicon entries to betyped as either lexically vague or underspecified, orlinked via LRs, allows us to account for the varia-tions of word meanings in different discourse con-texts.
Most of the works in computational lexicalsemantics have dealt with either underspecificationor LRs, trying to favour one representation ver theother.
There was previously no computational treat-6However, I do not preclude that there might be differentviews on the semantic hierarchy depending on the languagesconsidered: "filters" could be applied to the STH to only showthe relevant parts of it for some family-related languages.ment of lexical semantic vagueness.
In discourse ap-proaches and formal semantics, the use of under-specification i  terms of truth values led researchers,when applying their research to individual words,to the "disjunction fallacy problem", where a per-son who went to the bank, ended up going to the(financial-institution OR river-shore), whatever thisobject might be!, instead of a) going to the financial-institution OR b) going to the river-shore.In this paper, I have presented the usefulness ofeach representation, depending on the phenomenoncovered.
I showed the need to consider underspecifi-cation for polysemous items only, leaving homonymsto be related via their lexical forms only (and nottheir semantics).
I believe that LRs have room forpolysemous lexemes uch as the lamb example, ashere again one could not possibly imagine an ani-mal being (food-OR-animal) in the same discoursecontext.
7Finally, lexical vagueness enables a system to pro-cess lexical items from a multilingual viewpoint,when a lexeme becomes ambiguous with respect oanother language.
From a multingual perspective,there is no need to address the "sororites paradox"(Williamson, 1994), which tries to put a clear-cut be-tween values of the same word (e.g., not tall ... tall).It is important o note that WYSINNWYG acceptsredundancy in the lexicon representations: lexemescan be both vague and underspecified or either one.One could object that the WYSINNWYG ap-proach is knowledge intensive and puts the burdenon the lexicon, as it requires one to build severaltype hierarchies: a STH shared by all languages anda LTH per language which inherits from the MLTH.However, the advantages of the WYSINNWYG ap-proach are many.
First, by using the MLTH, ac-quisition costs can be minimised, as a lot of in-formation can be inherited by lexicons of family-related languages.
This multilingual approach hasbeen successfully applied to phonology by (Cahilland Gazdar, 1995).
Second, the task of determiningthe meaning of words requires human intervention,and thus involves ome subjectivity.
WYSINNWYGpresents a good way of "reconciling" different lexi-cographers' viewpoints by allowing a lexical proces-sor to specialise or generalise meanings on neededbasis.
As such, whether a lexicographer decides tosense-tag "en" as Location or creates the sub-senses"enl" and "en2" remains a virtual difference for theNLP system.
Finally, and most important, WYSIN-NWYG presents a typing environment which ac-counts for the flexibility of word meanings in con-text, thus allowing lexicon acquirers to map wordsto their "closest" core meaning within STH (e.g., "se7The fact that some cultures eat "living" creatures wouldrequire to type these lexemes using underspecification (food-OR-animal) instead of a lexical rule in their cultures.1326tenir" ~ PositionState) and use mechanisms ( uchas generalisation, specialisation) to modulate theirmeanings in context (e.g., "se tenir" --~ PsVertical).In other words, WYSINNWYG helps not only insense selection but also in sense modulation.Further esearch involves investigating representa-tion formalisms, as discussed in (Briscoe et al, 1993)to best implement these type inheritance hierarchies.4 AcknowledgementsThis work has been supported in part by DoD un-der contract number MDA-904-92-C-5189.
I wouldlike to thank my colleagues at CRL for comment-ing on a former version of this paper.
I am alsograteful to John Barnden, Pierrette Bouillon, BoyanOnyshkevysh, Martha Palmer, and the anonymousreviewers for their useful comments.Re ferencesS.
Beale and E. Viegas.
1996.
Intelligent Planningmeets Intelligent Planners.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Gaps and Bridges: New Directionsin Planning and Natural Language Generation, atECAI'96, Budapest, 59-64.B.
Boguraev and J. Pustejovsky.
1990.
KnowledgeRepresentation and Acquisition from Dictionary.Coling Tutorial, Helsinki, Finland.T.
Briscoe, V. de Paiva and A. Copestake (eds).1993.
Inheritance, Defaults, and the Lexicon.Cambridge University Press.P.
Buitelaar.
1997.
A Lexicon for UnderspecifiedSemantic Tagging.
In Proceedings of the SiglexWorkshop on Tagging Text with Lexical Seman-tics: Why, What, and How?, Washington DC.L.
Cahill and G. Gazdar.
1995.
Multilingual Lexi-cons for Related Lexicons.
In Proceedings of the2nd DTI Language Engineering Conference.L.
Cahill.
1998.
Automatic extension of a hierar-chical multilingual lexicon.
In Proceedings of theSecond Multilinguality in the Lexicon Workshop,sponsored by the 13th biennial European Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence (ECAI-98).A.
Copestake and T. Briscoe.
1996.
Semi-Productive Polysemy ans Sense Extension.
InJournal of Semantics, vol.12.B.
Dorr.
1990.
Solving Thematic Divergences inMachine Translation.
In Proceedings of the 28thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguists.C.
Han, F. Xia, M. Palmer, J. Rosenzweig.
1996.Capturing Language Specific Constraints on Lexi-cal Selection with Feature-Based Lexicalized Tree-Adjoining Grammars.
in Proceedings of the Inter-national Conference on Chinese Computing Sin-gapore.M.
Kameyama, R. Ochitani and S. Peters.
1991.
Re-solving Translation Mismatches With InformationFlow.
In Proceedings of the 29th Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics.R.
Keefe and P. Smith.
(eds) 1996.
Vagueness: aReader.
A Bradford Book.
The MIT Press.L.
Levin and S. Nirenburg.
1993.
Principles and Id-iosyncrasies in MT Lexicons, In Proceedings ofthe 1993 Spring Symposium on Building Lexiconsfor Machine Translation, Stanford, CA.K.
Mahesh, S. Nirenburg and S. Beale.
1997.
IfYou Have It, Flaunt It: Using Full OntologicalKnowledge for Word Sense Disambiguation.
InProceedings of the 7th International Conferenceon Theoretical and Methodological Issues in Ma-chine Translation.G.
Nunberg.
1979.
The Non-uniqueness of SemanticSolutions: Polysemy.
Linguistics and Philosophy3.N.
Ostler and S. Atkins.
1992.
Predictable mean-ing shift: Some linguistic properties of lexical im-plication rules.
In Pustejovsky and Bergler (eds.
)Lexical Semantics and Knowledge Representation.Springer Verlag.M.
Palmer and W. Zhibiao.
1995.
Verb Semanticsfor English-Chinese Translation.
Machine Trans-lation, Volume 10, Nos 1-2.M.
Pinkal.
1995.
Logic and Lexicon.
Oxford.M.
Poesio.
1996.
Semantic Ambiguity and Per-ceived Ambiguity.
In K. van Deemter and S. Pe-ters (eds.)
Semantic Ambiguity and Underspecifi-cation.J.
Pustejovsky.
1995.
The Generative Lexicon.
MITPress.A.
Sanfillippo.
1998.
Lexical Underspecification a dWord Disambiguation.
In E. Viegas (ed.)
Breadthand Depth of Semantic Lexicons.
Kluwer Aca-demic Press.G.
S~rasset.
1994.
SUBLIM: un syst~me uni-versel de bases lexicales multilingues et NADIA:sa spdcialisation aux bases lexicales interlinguespar acceptions.
PhD.
Thesis, GETA, Universit~de Grenoble.L.
Talmy.
1985.
Lexicalization Patterns: seman-tic structure in lexical forms.
In Shopen (ed),Language Typology and Syntactic Description III.CUP.E.
Viegas, B. Onyshkevych, V. Raskin and S. Niren-burg.
1996.
From Submit to Submitted via Sub-mission: on Lexical Rules in Large-scale LexiconAcquisition.
In Proceedings of the 34th Annualmeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, CA.C.
Voss and B. Dorr.
1998.
Lexical Allocation in IL-Based MT of Spatial Expressions.
In P. Olivierand K.-P. Gapp (eds.)
Representation and Pro-cessing of Spatial Expressions.
Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates.T.
Williamson.
1994.
Vagueness.
Routledge.1327
