Consonant Spreading in Arabic StemsKenneth  R.  BEESLEYXerox Research Centre EuropeGrenoble Laboratory6, chemin de Maupertuis38240 MEYLANFranceKen.
Beesley@xrce.
xerox, comAbst rac tThis paper examines the phenomenon of conso-nant spreading in Arabic stems.
Each spread-ing involves a local surface copying of an un-derlying consonant, and, in certain phonologi-cal contexts, spreading alternates productivelywith consonant lengthening (or gemination).The morphophonemic triggers of spreading liein the patterns or even in the roots themselves,and the combination of a spreading root anda spreading pattern causes a consonant o becopied multiple times.
The interdigitation ofArabic stems and the realization of consonantspreading are formalized using finite-state mor-photactics and variation rules, and this ap-proach has been successfully implemented in alarge-scale Arabic morphological nalyzer whichis available for testing on the Internet.1 In t roduct ionMost formal analyses of Semitic languages, in-cluding Arabic, defend the reality of abstract,unpronounceable morphemes called ROOTS,consisting usually of three, but sometimes twoor four.
consonants called RADICALS.
The clas-sic examples include ktb  (~.
,D ~)1, appearingin a number of words having to do with writ-ing, books, schools, etc.
; and drs (~9 z), ap-pearing in words having to do with studying,learning, teaching, etc.
Roots combine non-concatenatively with PATTERNS to form STEMS,a process known informally as INTERDIGITA-TION or  INTERCALATION.
We shall look firstat Arabic stems in general before examiningGEMINATION and SPREADING, related phenom-ena wherein a single underlying radical is real-~The Arabic-script examples in this paper were pro-duced using the ArabTeX package for TEX and DTEX byProf.
Dr. Klaus Lagally of the University of Stuttgart.darasdurisdarn'asduruusdiraasa(t)darraasmadrasa(t)madaarismadrasiyytadriis'study''be studied''teach''lessons''study''eager student''school''schools''scholastic''instruction'verbverbverbnounnounnounnounnounadj-likenounFigure 1: Some stems built on root drsized multiple times in a surface string.
Semiticmorphology, including stem interdigitation andspreading, is adequately and elegantly formaliz-able using finite-state rules and operations.1.1 Arabic  S temsThe stems in Figure 12 share the drs root mor-pheme, and indeed they are traditionally or-ganized under a drs heading in printed lexi-cons like the authoritative Dictionary of Mod-ern Written Arabic of Hans Wehr (1979).A root morpheme like drs interdigitates witha pattern morpheme, or, in some analyses.with a pattern and a separate vocalization mor-pheme, to form abstract stems.
Because inter-digitation involves pattern elements being in-serted between the radicals of the root mor-pheme, Semitic stem formation is a classicexample of non-concatenative morphotactics.Separating and identifying the component mor-phemes of words is of course the core task ofmorphological analysis for any language, andanalyzing Semitic stems is a classic challenge2The taa~ marbuu.ta, notated here as (t), is the fem-inine ending pronounced only in certain environments.Long consonants and long vowels are indicated here withgemination.117for any morphological analyzer.1.2 In terd ig i ta t ion  as In tersect ionFinite-state morphology is based on theclaim that both morphotactics and phonologi-cal/orthographical variation rules, i.e.
the rela-tion of underlying forms to surface forms, canbe formalized using finite-state automata (Ka-plan and Kay, 1981; Karttunen, 1991; Kaplanand Kay, 1994).
Although the most acces-sible computer implementations (Koskenniemi,1983; Antworth, 1990; Karttunen, 1993)o ffinite-state morphotactics have been limited tobuilding words via the concatenation of mor-phemes, the theory itself does not have this limi-tation.
In Semitic morphotactics, root and pat-tern morphemes (and, according to one's the-ory, perhaps separate vocalization morphemes)are naturally formalized as regular languages,and stems are formed by the intersection, ratherthan the concatenation, of these regular lan-guages.
Such analyses have been laid out else-where (Kata ja  and Koskenniemi, 1988; Beesley,1998a; Beesley, 1998b) and cannot be repeatedhere.
For present purposes, it will suffice to viewmorphophonemic (underlying) stems as beingformed from the intersection of a root and a pat-tern, where patterns contain vowels and C slotsinto which root radicals are, intuitively speak-ing, "plugged", as in the following Form I per-~ct  active and passive verb examples.Root: d r s k t b q t iPattern: CaCaC CaCaC CaCaCStem: daras katab qatalRoot: d r s k t b q t 1Pattern : CuCiC CuCiC CuCiCStem: dur i s  kut ib  qut i lPrefixes and suffixes concatenate onto the stemsin the usual way to form complete, but still mor-phophonemic, words; and finite-state variationrules are then applied to map the morphophone-mic strings into strings of surface phonemes ororthographicM characters.
For an overview ofthis approach, see Karttunen, Kaplan and Zae-hen (1992).Following Harris (1941) and Hudson (1986),and unlike McCarthy (1981), we also allow thepatterns to contain non-radical consonants asin the following perfect active Form VII, FormVIII and Form X examples.Form VII Form VIII Form XRoot: k t b k t b kt bPattern: nCaCaC CtaCaC staCCaCStem : nkat ab ktatab staktabIn this formalization, noun patterns work ex-actly like verb patterns, as in the following ex-amples:Root: k t b k t b kt bPattern: CiCaaC CuCuC maCCuuCStem: kitaab kutub maktuubGloss  : "book" "books" let ter"Where such straightforward intersection ofroots and patterns into stems would appear tobreak down is in cases of gemination and spread-ing, where a single root radical appears multipletimes in a surface stem.2 Arab ic  Consonant  Geminat ion  andSpread ing2.1 Geminat ion  in Forms I I  and  VSome verb and noun stems exhibit a double re-alization (a copying) of an underlying radical,resulting in gemination 3 or spreading at the sur-face level.
Looking at gemination first, it is bestknown from verb stems known in the Europeantradition as Forms II and V, where the middleradical is doubled.
Kay's (1987) pattern nota-tion uses a G symbol before the C slot thatneeds to be doubled.
43Gemination i  Arabic words can alternatively be an-alyzed as consonant lengthening, as in Harris (1941) andas implied by Holes (1995).
This solution is very attrac-tive if the goal is to generate fully-voweled orthograph-ical surface strings of Arabic, but for the phonologicalexamples in this paper we adopt the gemination repre-sentation as used by phonologists like McCarthy (1981).4 Kay's stem-building mechanism, using a multi-tapetransducer implemented in Prolog, sees G on the patterntape and writes a copy of the middle radical on the stemtape without consuming it.
Then the following C doesthe same but consumes the radical symbol in the usualway.
Kay's analysis in fact abstracts out the vocaliza-118Root: k t b d r sPattern: CaGCaC CaGCaCStem: kattab darrasIn the same spirit, but with a different mecha-nism, our Form II and Form V patterns containan X symbol that appears after the consonantslot to be copied.Root: k t b d r sPattern: CaCXaC CaCXaCStem: katXab darXasAs in all cases, the stem is formed by straight-forward intersection, resulting in abstract stemslike darXas .
The X symbol is subsequently re-alized via finite-state variation rules as a copy ofthe preceding consonant in a phonological gram-mar ( /dar ras / )  or, in an orthographical systemsuch as ours, as an optionally written shadda di-acritic (~r,~.~).
Finite-state rules to effect suchlimited local copying are trivially written, s2.2 Geminat ion /Spread ing  in Form IXSpreading, which appears to involve consonantcopying over intervening phonemes, is not sodifferent from gemination; and indeed it is com-mon in "spreading" verb stems for the spread-ing to alternate productively with gemination.The best known example of Arabic consonantspreading is the verbal stem known as FormIX (the same behavior is also seen in FormXI, Form XIV, Form QIV and in several nounforms).
A typical example is the root dhm(~, 0 z), which in Form IX has the meaning "be-come black".Spreading is not terribly common in ModernStandard Arabic, but it occurs in enough verband noun forms to deserve, in our opinion, fulltreatment.
In our lexicon of about 4930 roots,tion, placing it on a separate transducer tape, but thisdifference is not important here.
For extensions of thismulti-tape approach see Kiraz (1994; 1996).
The cur-rent approach differs from the multi-tape approaches informalizing roots, patterns and vocalizations as regularlanguages and by computing ("linearizing") the stemsat compile time via intersection of these regular lan-guages (Beesley, 1998a; Beesley, 1998b).5See, for example, the rules of Antworth (1990) forhandling the limited reduplication seen in Tagalog.by d & .~ ,4.hmr -J i* Chwl ~ 3 Cdhm ~, 0 .~rbd ~ ~.
3rfd.
0~, ~..)~zrq ~ .~ .3zwr .~ .~ .
)smr .~ ~.swd ~ .~J'qr .9 ~ jJ'mt.
3, js.fr .~ J u"s.hb ~.
o o""C~gbr A '-?.
tqtm i* ,Dkmd ~ ~.
2'become white''turn red' 'blush''be cross-eyed' 'squint''become green''be moist''become black''become ashen' 'glower''drip' 'scatter' break up''be blue in color''alienate''become brown''become black''be of fair complexion''turn gray''turn yellow/pale''become reddish''be crooked' be bent''be dust-colored''be dark-colored''become smutty /dark 'Figure 2: Roots that combine with Form IXpatterns20 have Form IX possibilities (see Figure 2).Most of them (but not all) share the generalmeaning of being or becoming a certain color.McCarthy (1981) and others (Kay, 1987; Ki-raz, 1994; Bird and Blackburn, 1991) postulatean underlying Form IX stem for dhm that lookslike dhamam,  with a spreading of the final mradical; other writers like Beeston (1968) list thestem as dhamm,  with a geminated or length-ened final radical.
In fact, both forms do oc-cur in full surface words as shown in Figure 3,and the difference is productively and straight-forwardly phonological.
For perfect endings like+a ('he') and +at  ('she'), the final consonant isgeminated (or "lengthened", depending on yourformal point of view).
If, however, the suffix be-gins with a consonant, as in +tu  (T )  or +ta('you, masc.
sg.
'), then the separated or truespreading occurs.From a phonological view, and reflecting the119dhamm+a ~.~.~\] 'he turned black'dhaniam+tu -~2~.~!
'I turned black'Figure 3: Form IX Gemination vs. Spreadingnotation of Beeston, it is tempting to formal-ize the underlying Form IX perfect active pat-tern as CCaCX so that it intersects with rootdhm to form dhamX.
When followed by a suf-fix beginning with a vowel such as +a or +at ,phonologically oriented variation rules would re-alize the X as a copy of the preceding consonant(/dhamm/).
Arabic abhors consonant clus-ters, and it resorts to various "cluster busting"techniques to eliminate them.
The final phono-logical realization would include an epentheti-ca l / ?
i /on  the front, to break up the dh clus-ter, and would treat the copied m as the on-set of a syUable that includes the suffix: /?id-ham-rna/ ,  or, orthographically, ~.2b.~!.
Whenfollowed by a suffix beginning with a conso-nant, as in dhamX+tu ,  the three-consonantcluster would need to be broken up by anotherepenthetic vowel as in / ?
id -ha- rnam-tu / ,  or,orthographically, "~.~!
.
However, for reasonsto become clearer below when we look at bilit-eral roots, we defined an underlying Form IXperfect active pattern CCaCaX leading to ab-stract stems like dhamaX.2.3 Other  Cases of Final  RadicalGeminat ion /Spread ingOther verb forms where the final radical iscopied include the rare Forms XI and XIV.
Rootlhj (.~ ~ ~) intersects with the Form XI perfectactive pattern CCaaCaX to form the abstractstem lhaa jaX ("curdle"/"coagulate"), leadingto surface forms like /?
i l -haaj - ja /  (.~5~!)
and/?
i l -haa- ja j - tu /  (-,~.~!)
that vary exactlyas in Form IX.
The same holds for root shb(,.?.
~ ~,,), which takes both Form IX (s.habaX)and Form XI (shaabaX),  both meaning "be-come reddish".
In our lexicon, one root q%(~r' ~.
d) takes form XIV, with patterns like theperfect active CCanCaX and imperfect activeCCanCiX  ("be pigeon-breasted").
Other sim-ilar Form XIV examples probably exist but arenot reflected in the current dictionary.Aside from the verbal nouns and partici-ples of Forms IX, XI and XIV, other noun-likepatterns also involve the spreading of the fi-nal radical.
These include CiCCi iX and Ca-CaaCi iX,  taken by roots nhr (.
; ~ ~3), mean-ing "skilled/experienced", and r~d (~ \[_~)meaning "coward/cowardly".
The CaCaaCi iXpattern also serves as the broken (i.e.
ir-regular) plural for CuCCuuX stems for theroots z~r (.~ ~5)  meaning "ill-tempered", shr(.J ~ 0") meaning "thrush/blackbird", 1yd(~ ~_ J) meaning "chin", and thr  (.~ ~ .~) andt.xr (.j ~ .b), both meaning "cloud".
When anX appears after a long vowel as in t .uxruuX,it is always realized as a full copy of the pre-vious consonant as in / tuxruur /  (_;.%~9d,), 1lomatter what follows.2.4 Middle  RadicalGeminat ion /Spread ingJust as Forms II and V involve gemination of themiddle radical, other forms including Form XIIinvolve the separated spreading of the middleradical.
A preceding diphthong, like a precedinglong vowel, causes X to be realized as a fullcopy of the preceding consonant, as shown inthe following examples.Root:Pattern:Stem:Surface:Form:Gloss:hd bCCawXaChdawXabhdawdabForm XII perfect active"be vaulted" "be embossed"~OOt: X~ nPattern: CCawXiCStem: xfawXinSurface: xfaw~inForm: Form XII imperfect activeGloss: "be rough"Root:Pattern:Stem:Surface:Form:Gloss:xd bmuCCawXiCmuxdawXibmuxdawdibForm XII active participle"become green"120tamm+a tamam-t-tu$"  ?
o .
"Figure 4: Biliteral Form I StemsRoot: xd rPattern: CCiiXaaCStem: xdiiXaarSurface: xdiidaarForm: Form XII verbal nounGloss: "become green"A number of nouns have broken plurals that alsoinvolve spreading of the middle radical, con-trasting with gemination i  the singular.x f f "bat"$ ?xufXaaf ~u4.singular geminationx f f "bats" plural spreadingxafaaXiif ?.2:~/2~.A" " : :d b r "hornet"dabXuur _)~.singular geminationd b r "hornets" plural spreadingdabaaXiir .~.~U3A few other patterns show the same behavior.While not especially common, there are moreroots that take middle-radical-spreading nounpatterns than take the better-known Form IXverb patterns.3 Biliteral RootsAs pointed out ill McCarthy (1981, p. 396-7), the gemination vs. spreading behavior ofForm IX stems is closely paralleled by FormI stems involving traditionally analyzed "bilit-eral" or ':geminating" roots such as tm (alsocharacterized astmm) and sm (possibly smm)and many others of the same ilk.
As shown inFigure 4, these roots show Form I geminationwith suffixes beginning with a vowel vs. fullspreading when the suffix begins with a conso-nant.
However Form IX is handled, these par-allels strongly suggest hat the exact same un-derlying forms and variations rules should alsohandle the form I of biliteral roots.However, the Form I perfect active pattern,in the current notation, is simply CaCaC (orRoot: k t b k t bPattern: CaCaC CaCaCLexicah katab+a katab+tuSurface: katab a katab tuOrthography: "3Figure 5: Ordinary Form I behaviorRoot: t m X t m XPattern: CaCaC CaCaCLexical: tamaX+a tamaX+tuSurface: tamma tamamtu?
O~"  Orthography: 5/Figure 6: Biliteral tm formalized as tmXidiosyncratically for some roots, CaCuC orCaCiC).
As shown in Figure 5, there is no ev-idence, for normal triliteral roots like ktb, thatany kind of copying is specified by the Form Ipattern itself.Keeping CaCaC as the Form I perfect activepattern, the behavior of biliteral roots falls outeffortlessly if they are formalized not as srn andtin, nor as smm and tram, but as smX andtmX,  with the copying-trigger X as the thirdradical of the root itself.
Such roots intersectin the normM way with triliteral patterns as inFigure 6, and they are mapped to appropriatesurface strings using the same rules that realizeForm IX stems.4 RulesThe TWOLC rule (Karttunen and Beesley, 1992)that maps an X, coming either fl'om roots liketmX or from patterns like Form IX CCaCaX.into a copy of the previous consonant is the fol-lowing, where Cons is a grammar-level variableranging freely over consonants, LongVowel is agrammar-level variable ranging freely over longvowels and diphthongs, and C is an indexed lo-cal variable ranging over the enumerated set ofconsonants.X:C <=>:C \:Cons+ _ ~+: Cons ;:C LongVowel _ ;:C X : : _  ;where C in (b  t 0 j h x d 6 r zsf d;6 xfqkimnhwy) ;121The rule, which in fact compiles into 27 rules,one for each enumerated consonant, realizes un-derlying X as surface C if and only if one of thefollowing cases applies: 6* First Context: X is preceded by a sur-face C and one or more non-consonants,and is followed by a suffix beginningwith a consonant.
This context matcheslexical dhamaX+tu ,  realizing X as m(ultimately written ",/~/,L~.~!
), but notdhamaX+a,  which is written ~.~!.- Second Context: X is preceded by a surfaceC and a long vowel or diphthong, no matterwhat follows.
This maps lexical dabaaX i i rto dabaab i i r  (.t U-%).?
Third Context: X is preceded by a surfaceC, another X and any symbol, no matterwhat follows.
This matches the second Xin samXaX+tu  and samXaXWa to pro-duce samXam+tu and samXam+a re-spectively, with ultimate orthographical re-alizations such as ~ "  and "~?~.In the current system, where the goal is torecognize and generate orthographical wordsof Modern Standard Arabic, as represented inISO8859-6, UNICODE or an equivalent encod-ing, the default or "elsewhere" case is for X tobe realized optionally as a shadda diacritic.5 Mu l t ip le  Cop ies  o f  Rad ica lsWhen a biliteral root like smX intersects withthe Form II pattern CaCXaC,  the abstractresult is the stem samXaX.
The radical mgets geminated (or lengthened) once and spreadonce to form surface phonological phonologicalstrings like /sammama/ nd / sammamtu/ ,which become orthographical -~  and " ~  re-spectively.
And if both roots and patterns cancontain X, then the possibility exists that acopying root could combine with a copying pat-tern, requiring a full double spreading of a rad-ical in the surface string.
This in fact happensin a single example (in the present lexicon) with~The full rule contains everal other contexts and finedistinctions that do not bear on the data presented here.For example, the w in the set C of consonants must bedistinguished from the w-like offglide of diphthongs.Root: m k XPattern: CaCaaXiiCAbstract stem: makaaXiiXSurface: makaakiikGloss: "shut les"Figure 7: Double Consonant Spreadingthe root mkX,  which combines legally with thenoun pattern CaCaaXi iC  as in Figure 7.
Inthe surface string makaak i ik  ("shuttles"), or-thographically ?
A~,  the middle radical k isspread twice.
The variation rules handle thisand the smX examples without difficulty.6 System StatusThe current morphological analyzer is basedon dictionaries and rules licensed from an ear-lier project at ALPNET (Beesley, 1990), re-built completely using Xerox finite-state tech-nology (Beesley, 1996; Beesley, 1998a).
Thecurrent dictionaries contain 4930 roots, eachone hand-coded to indicate the subset of pat-terns with which it legally combines (Buck-walter, 1990).
Roots and patterns are inter-sected (Beesley, 1998b) at compile time to yield90,000 stems.
Various combinations of prefixesand suffixes, concatenated to the stems, yieldover 72,000,000 abstract words.
Sixty-six finite-state variation rules map these abstract stringsinto fully-voweled orthographical strings, andadditional trivial rules are then applied to op-tionally delete short vowels and other diacritics,allowing the system to analyze unvoweled, par-tially voweled, and fully-voweled orthographicalstrings.The full system, including a Java interfacethat displays both input and output in Arabicscript, is available for testing on the Internetat http ://www.
xrce.
xerox, com/research/mltt/arabic/.122ReferencesEvan L. Antworth.
1990.
PC-KIMMO: a two-level processor for morphological analysis.Number 16 in Occasional publications in aca-demic computing.
Summer Institute of Lin-guistics, Dallas.Kenneth R. Beesley.
1990.
Finite-state de-scription of Arabic morphology.
In Proceed-ings of the Second Cambridge Conference onBilingual Computing in Arabic and English,September 5-7.
No pagination.Kenneth R. Beesley.
1996.
Arabic finite-statemorphological nalysis and generation.
InCOLING'g6, volume 1, pages 89-94, Copen-hagen, August 5-9.
Center for Sprogteknologi.The 16th International Conference on Com-putational Linguistics.Kenneth R. Beesley.
1998a.
Arabic morphologi-cal analysis on the Internet.
In ICEMCO-98,Cambridge, April 17-18.
Centre for MiddleEastern Studies.
Proceedings ofthe 6th Inter-national Conference and Exhibition on Multi-lingual Computing.
Paper number 3.1.1; nopagination.Kenneth R. Beesley.
1998b.
Arabic stem mor-photactics via finite-state intersection.
Paperpresented at the 12th Symposium on Ara-bic Linguistics, Arabic Linguistic Society, 6-7March, 1998, C, hampaign, IL.A.
F. L. Beeston.
1968.
Written Arabic: anapproach to the basic structures.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Steven Bird and Patrick Blackburn.
1991.
Alogical approach to Arabic phonology.
InEACL-91, pages 89-94.Timothy A. Buckwalter.
1990.
Lexicographicnotation of Arabic noun pattern morphemesand their inflectional features.
In Proceed-ings of the Second Cambridge Conference onBilingual Computing in Arabic and English,September 5-7.
No pagination.Zelig Harris.
1941.
Linguistic structure of He-brew.
Journal of the American Oriental So-ciety, 62:143-167.Clives Holes.
1995.
Modern Arabic: Structures,Functions and Varieties.
Longman, London.Grover Hudson.
1986.
Arabic root and patternmorphology without tiers.
Journal of Lin-guistics, 22:85-122.
Reply to McCarthy:1981.Ronald M. Kaplan and Martin Kay.
1981.Phonological rules and finite-state transduc-ers.
In Linguistic Society of America MeetingHandbook, Fifty-Sixth Annual Meeting, NewYork, December 27-30.
Abstract.Ronald M. Kaplan and Martin Kay.
1994.Regular models of phonological rule systems.Computational Linguistics, 20(3):331-378.Lauri Karttunen and Kenneth R. Beesley.
1992.Two-level rule compiler.
Technical ReportISTL-92-2, Xerox Palo Alto Research Center,Palo Alto, CA, October.Lauri Karttunen, Ronald M. Kaplan, and AnnieZaenen.
1992.
Two-level morphology withcomposition.
In COLING'92, pages 141-148,Nantes, France, August 23-28.Lauri Karttunen.
1991.
Finite-state con-straints.
In Proceedings of the Interna-tional Conference on Current Issues in Com-putational Linguistics, Penang, Malaysia,June 10-14.
Universiti Sains Malaysia.Lauri Karttunen.
1993.
Finite-state lexiconcompiler.
Technical Report ISTL-NLTT-1993-04-02, Xerox Palo Alto Research Center,Palo Alto, CA, April.Laura Kataja and Kimmo Koskenniemi.
1988.Finite-state description of Semitic morphol-ogy: A case study of Ancient Akkadian.
InCOLING'88, pages 313-315.Martin Kay.
1987.
Nonconcatenative finite-state morphology.
In Proceedings of the ThirdConference of the European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,pages 2-10.George Kiraz.
1994.
Multi-tape two-level mor-phology: a case study in Semitic non-linearmorphology.
In COLING'94, volume 1, pages180-186.George Anton Kiraz.
1996.
Computingprosodic morphology.
In COLING'96.Kimmo Koskenniemi.
1983.
Two-level mor-phology: A general computational model forword-form recognition and production.
Pub-lication 11, University of Helsinki, Depart-ment of General Linguistics, Helsinki.John J. McCarthy.
1981.
A prosodic theory ofnonconcatenative morphology.
Linguistic In-quiry, 12(3):373-418.Hans Wehr.
1979.
A Dictionary of ModernWritten Arabic.
Spoken Language Services,Inc., Ithaca, NY, 4 edition.
Edited by J. Mil-ton Cowan.123
