Using Language Resources in an IntelligentTutoring System for FrenchChadia Moghrabi (*)D6partment d'informatiqueUniversit6 de MonctonMoncton, NB,E1A 3E9, Canadamoghrac @umoncton.caAbstractThis paper presents a project thatinvestigates to what extent computationallinguistic methods and tools used at GETAfor machine translation can be used toimplement  novel funct ional i t ies inintelligent computer assisted languagelearning.
Our intelligent tutoring systemproject is still in its early phases.
Thelearner module is based on an empiricalstudy of French as used by Acadianelementary students l iving in New-Brunswick, Canada.
Additionally, we arestudying the state of the art of systems usingArtificial Intelligence techniques as well asNLP resources and/or methodologies forteaching language, especially for bilingualand minority groups.
(*) On sabbatical leave at GETA-CLIPS, Grenoble, France for 1997-1998.define the learner model.
Then, in the lastsection we propose the system's generalarchitecture and an overview some of itsactivities; particularly those that counteractAnglicisms by double generating examples instandard French and in the local dialect usinglinguistic resources usually used in machinetranslation.IntroductionThe project that we have started is intended forthe minority French speaking Acadiancommunity living in Atlantic Canada.
In manyfamilies, parents used to go to English schoolsand sometimes cannot adequately help theirchildren in their school work.
Children, whonow go to French schools, often switch back toEnglish for their leisure activities because of thescarcity of options open to them.
Many of thesechildren use English syntax as well as borrowedvocabulary quite frequently.
In brief, thissetting of language learning is not that of atypical native speaker.We begin our presentation with a literaturereview of related work in Intelligent TutoringSystems (ITS) particularly on ComputerAssisted Language Learning (CALL andIntelligent CALL) followed by the principlesthat this community is now expecting fromsystem builders.
In the following sections wesummarize an empirical study that helped usTo our knowledge, there are no systems that usemachine translation tools for generating twoversions of the same language instead ofmultilingual generation.
Another novelty is inthe pedagogical approach of exposing thelearner to the expert model and to the learnermodel in a comparative manner, thus helping toclarify the sources of error.1 Artif icial Intell igenceLanguage LearningandAmong the first milestones in IntelligentTutoring Systems (ITS) was Carbonell's ystem(1970) that used a knowledge-base to check thestudent's answers and to allow him/her to interactin "natural anguage".
BUGGY, by Brown andBurton (1978) is another system more orientedtowards student error diagnostic.
At around thesame period researchers were starting to put alsosome emphasis on the teaching strategiesadopted in the system such as in WEST, Burton& Brown (1976).It's with such works and many others later, thatIntelligent Tutoring Systems' architecture wasmore or less separated into four modules: anexpert's model, a learner's model, a teacher'smodel, and an interface, Wengers (1987).However, language learning had its own specificdifficulties that were not generalized in otherITS systems.
How to represent the linguisticknowledge in the expert and learner models?How to implement parsers that can process886ungrammatical  input?
How to implementteaching strategies that are appropriate forlanguage learning?
These are some of the issuesof high interest, Chanier, Reni6 & Fouquer6(1993).Recent systems how how researchers are beingmore open to psycho linguistic, pedagogical ndapplied linguistic theories.
For example, TheICICLE Project is based on L2 learning theory(McCoy et al, 1996); Alexia (Selva et al, 1997)and FLUENT (Hamburger and Hashim, 1992)are based on constructivism, Mr. Collins (Bull etal., 1995) is based on four empirical studies inan effort to "discover" student errors and theirlearning strategies.Another tendency, that is very noticeablyparallel to that of NLP, is the development ofsophisticated language resources such asdictionaries for language (lexical) learning asexemplified by CELINE at Grenoble (Men6zoet al, 1996), the SAFRAN project (1997) andThe Reader at Princeton University (1997)which uses WordNet,  or real corpuses as in theEuropean project Camille (Ingraham et al,1994).The literature review lead us to believe in thefollowing basic principles:P1.
Language is learned in context throughcommunication and experience, Chanier(1994).P2.
Language is learned in the natural orderfrom receptive to productive.P3.
Grammatical forms ought to be taughtthrough language patterns.P4.
Vocabulary learning means learning thewords and their limitations, probability ofoccurrences, and syntactic behavior aroundthem, Swartz & Yazdani (1992).2 An Empir ical  Study forLearner ModelIn an effort to gain some insight into theprojected linguistic model, an empirical studyon the population of elementary students in theCity of Moncton, New Brunswick, Canada wascompleted 1.
The study consisted of one-on-oneinterviews where the children were presentedwith images having very few possibleThis work was done by A. S. Picolet-Cr6pault withinher PhD thesis.interpretations.
The only question that was askedwas "Qu'est-ce que c'est?"
(What is this?
).In the next sections, we will examine thechildren's answers concerning relative clauses.2.1 Subject Relative ClausesWhen the children were asked about the mainsubject in the picture, the answers wereacceptable in standard French, showing that theyhad no problems in using relative clauses withqui.
Following are some examples:I.
C'est une chienne qui boit;2.
C'est un chien qui boit du iait;Some of the answers showed other elementsconcerning lexical use:3.
C'est un gargon qui kick la balle.
(Use of an English verb)4.
C'est une fiile qui botte le ballon.
(Use of an inappropriate verb)5.
C'est un papa etson garqon.
(Bypassing strategy)2.2 Object Relative ClausesIn this part of the experiment, he object of thepicture was the center of the questions.Following are some of the answers with the mostfrequent errors or bypassing strategies, they aremarked with a *; the sentences with italics arethe acceptable ones:6.
C'est le livre que le garcon lit.*7.
C'est le livre qui se fait lire par la fille.*8.
C'est le livre h la fille.*9.
C'est le iivre qu'elle lit dedans.*10.
C'est un livre, la fille lit le livre.The errors seen in these examples constitutearound fifty percent of the answers given byfirst grade children and are reduced to aroundthirty percent in sixth grade.
Answers 7 and 10are examples of bypassing strategies i.e.
; the useof a different verb or another sentence structureas a means for avoiding relative clauses.Answer 8 shows a common use of thepreposition h instead of de.
Answer 9 is alsorepresentat ive of the frequent use ofprepositions at the end of the sentence.2.3 Complex Relative ClausesThe following examples give a brief survey ofthe use of indirect object relative clauses: aveclequel / laquelle, sur lequel / laquelle, ~ qui,and dont:11.
C'est le crayon avec lequel elle 6crit.
* 12.
C'est le crayon qui ~crit.
* 13.
C'est le crayon qu'il se sert pour ses devoirs.88714.
C'est la branche sur laquelle est l'oiseau"15.
C'est une branche que l'oiseau chante sur."16.
C'est une branche que I'oiseau est assis.17.
C'est le garqon ~ qui le monsieur parle.
* 18.
C'est le garqon qui s'assoit sur une chaise."19.
C'est le garqon que le monsieur parle.20.
C'est la maison dont la femme rSve.*21.
C'est la maison que la dame rSve.*22.
C'est la maison que la madame rSve de.2.4 Error SummaryBy looking at these examples, it is evident thatcomplex relative clauses are rather unknown tothe children.
They show that the easiest particlesfor them are qui and que even when misused asin answer 12.It can also be concluded that they use que in anon standard manner every time they need touse complex relative clauses.
Otherwise they usea bypassing strategy by separating the sentenceinto two parts as in "C'est une branche et unoiseau", or by using another verb that allows quias in 18.3 General System OverviewThe system we are building has a mixedinitiative, multi-agent architecture.
Mixedinitiative because we want the system to serveboth the teacher and the student, in bothteaching and in learning modes.
For example,the teacher could favor certain activities such aspresenting examples of "non standard Frenchsentences" and opposing them to Englishstructures in a effort to show the children someAnglicisms; or maybe choose a specific micro-world, such as Holloween or Christmas so thatthe exercises would be closer to children's realdaily experience (principle P1).The syntactic graph and the lexicon areannotated with probabilities on usually faultyexpressions in order to intensify the explanationor the number of examples and exercises onthose particular parts (principles P3 and P4).We do not intend to build a fully free learningenvironment.
The environment is partiallystructured.
The user chooses where to start byclicking on a hot-button picture.
He/she choosesthe micro-domain and the wanted activities.However, unexpected "pop-up" activities wouldcome up on the screen from time to time (style"Tip of the day" or "TV ad.
").As this system is being built for young children,not every single word is expected to be typed onthe keyboard.
Following are some examples ofthe look and feel of our system:1.
Children can pick activities from graphicalimages on the screen.2.
Corpuses or extracts from children stories areequipped with hyperlinks to word meanings orgrammar usage explanations.3.
Puzzle playing where words have assignedshapes according to their functions.
Fitting thepuzzle means placing the words in the correctorder.4.
Picking words they like and asking the systemto make up a sentence;All the above possibilities are optional.
Thisallows the teacher to take responsibility of thedegree of unstructured or of focused learning.4 GETA's Used ResourcesFor many years GETA has been working on MTsystems from and into French.
An impressivecore of linguistic knowledge is available but hasnot yet been experimented on in buildinglanguage learning software, though work isunderway for integration of heterogeneous NLPcomponents, Boitet & Seligman (1994).
Arianefor example, uses special purpose rule-writingformalisms for each of its morphological andlexical modules both for analysis and forgenerat ion,  with a strict separation ofalgorithmic and linguistic knowledge, Hutchins& Somers (1992).The following modules from GETA were usedin our experiment 2 :A. Morphological agent.-ATEF for the morphological analysis sub-agent.-SYGMOR for the morpho log ica lgeneration sub-agent.B.
Lexical agent.-EXPANSF for lexical expansion-TRANSF for translation into standardFrenchC.
ROBRA in its multi-level analysis-for syntact ic  tree def in i t ions andmanipulations- for logico-semantic functions2 This work was done by Anne Sarti within herMaster's degree.888The first series of experiments we realized usingGETA's resources concentrate on doubleanalysis/generation of standard French and non-standard local French .
The corpus consisted ofthe sentences collected during the empiricalstudy (see section 2).Figures 1 and 2 show an example of theannotated trees created by Ariane during thisC'est la maison que la dame r~ve deI?,c oroo, C u'"'' C fs(gov) fs(gov)cat(r) cat(v) ~--u~('~-a.')
\]{o,, .
.
.
.
.fs(das) fs(gov)cat(d) ?double generation of Acadian French andStandard French.These two graphs how how straight forward wasthe use of language resources for highlightingsimilarities and/or differences in these twodialects.
Tha same grammar can be used byincrementing its rules to include new/differentsentence structures.
The lexicon can beaugmented similarly.fs(gov) cat (d~~)  fs( es) cat(n) fs(gov) cat v~.~, (~,~ fs(gov) ~ fs(reg) ) cat(s)Figure \]: Annotated tree for a sentence in non-standard French.C'est la maison dont la dame r&vek(gn)fs(atsuj)rl(trlO)~ul('co-pron') . )
ul('6tre') ul('lo-art') ?
(ul('maison')cat(r) fs(gov) ~t (v~~)  ~ cat (~.~ ts(gov) fs(des) fs gov)k(gn)fs(suj)r ul('maison') ~ ul('le-art') ul('clame') ?
~ ul('r~ver')fs(gov) / ~ _ ~  ~ cat(d) s(des) ts(gov) cat(v) ts(gov)Figure 2: Annotated tree for a sentence in standard French.889Another alternative would be to consider thenon-standard French as a completely newlanguage from all points of view.
In this caseonly the formalisms at GETA would beexploited not the existing linguistic data.ConclusionWe have presented in this paper an ongoingsoftware development project that is still in itsearly phases.
In the introduction and in the firstsections, we have argued for the positive effectsof computers on language learning and then onsome of the issues that researchers in the fieldare hoping to  see implemented from acomputational nd a pedagogical point of view.We have also seen, through an empirical study,the kinds of linguistic difficulties that a minoritygroup is encountering.
In such a case onecannot help but to think about the advantagesthat technology can offer, especially in an erawhere Language resources are ready for thepick.
We have opted to use the highlyformalized and parameterized resources atGETA in an effort to develop a quicklyfunctional prototype that we can immediatelysubmit for on-the ground testing.AcknowledgementsOur thanks go to the Canadian LanguageTechnology Institute CLTI, Universit6 deMoncton, and to TPS Moncton for partiallyfinancing this project.ReferencesBoitet, C. & Seligman, M. (1994) The 'WhiteBoard'Architecture: a way to integrate heterogeneouscomponents of NLP systems , Proc.
Coling 94,Kyoto, 1994.Brown, J. S. & Burton, R.R.
(1978) Diagnostic modelsfor procedural bugs in basic mathematical skills.Cognitive Science, 2, pp.
155-191.Bull, P., Pain, H. & Brna,P.
(1995) Mr. Collins:Student Modeling in Intelligent Computer AssistedLanguage Learning, Instructional Science, 23,pp.65-87.Burton, R. R. & Brown, J.S.
(1976) A tutoring andstudent modeling paradigm for gaming environments?
Computer Science and Education, ACM SIGCSEBulletin, 8/1, pp.
236-246.Carbonell, J.
(1970) AI in CAI: An artificialintelligence approach to computer-assisted instruction?
IEEE Transactions on Man-Machine Systems, I 1/4, pp.
190-202.Chanier, T., Reni6, D. & Fouquer6, C.
(Eds.)
(1993)Sciences Cognitives, lnformatique t Apprentissagedes Langues .
In "Proceedings of the workshopSCIAL '93".Chanier, T. (1994) Special Issue Introduction, JAI-ED,5/4, pp.
417-428Hamburger, H.& Hashim, R.(1992) Foreign LanguageTutoring and Learning Environment, In " IntelligentTutoring Systems for Foreign Language Learning,Swartz & Yazdani, eds., Springer-Verlag.Holland, V.M., Kaplan, J.D., & Sams, M.R.
(eds.
)(1995) Intelligent Language Tutors, Theory ShapingTechnology, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah,N.J., 384 p.Hutchins, W.J.
& Somers, H.L.
(1992) AnIntroduction to Machine Translation, Academic Press,San Diego, CA, 361 p.Ingraham, B., Chanier T. & Emery,C.
(1994)CAMILLE: A European Project to DevelopLanguage Training for Different Purposes, inVarious Languages on a Common HypermediaFramework, Computers and Education, 23/1&2,pp.107-115.McCoy, K.F., Pennington, C.A., & Suri, L.Z.
(1996)English Error Correction: A Syntactic User ModelBased on Principled "mal-rule" Scoring, Proc.
FifthInternational Conference on User Modeling.
Kailua,Hawaii, pp.
59-66.Men6zo, J., Genthial,D.
& Courtin, J.
(1996)Reconnaissances pturi-lexicales dans CELINE, unsystdme multi-agents de d~tection et correction deserreurs, Proc.
"Le traitement automatique d s langueset ses applications industrielles TAL+AI'96",2,Moncton, Canada.Moghrabi, C.& de Finney, J.
(1989) PARDA: UnProgramme d'Aide ~ la R~daction du DiscoursArgument~, Journal Canadien des Sciences derlnformation,, 3/4, pp.
103-109.Picolet-Cr6pault, A.S. (1996) Strategies deremplacement et de contournement chez l'enfant de 612 ans, In "Revue de 10i~mes journ6es delinguistique de rUniv.
Laval, Quebec, Canada?SAFRAN Project (1997) http://admin.ccl.umist.ac.uk/staff/mariejo/safran.htmSelva, T., Issac, F., Chanier, T., Fouquer6, C. (1997)Lexical Comprehension and Production in theALEXIA System, Proc.
Language Teaching andLanguage Technology, Univ.
of Groningen.Swartz, M.L.
& Yazdani, M.
(eds.)
(19992) IntelligentTutoring Systems for Foreign Language Learning:The Bridge to International Communication?, NATOSeries, Springer-Verlag, 1992.The Reader, http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/-wn/current/reader.htmlWengers, E. (1987) Artificial Intelligence and TutoringSystems.
Morgan Kaufmann, Los Altos, CA.890
