From Information Structure to Intonation: A PhonologicalInterface for Concept-to-SpeechHannes  P i rker ,  Georg  N ik l fe ld ,  Johannes  Mat iasek  and Hara ld  Trost  +{hannes,georgn~iohn,harald} ~ i.univie.ac.atAustrian Research Institute for Artificial Intelligence (OFAI)*Schotteng.
3, A-1010 Vienna, Austria+Department of Medical Cybernetics and Artificial Intelligence University of ViennaFreyung 6, A-1010 Vienna, AustriaAbstractThe paper describes an interface between gen-erator and synthesizer of the German languageconcept-to-speech system VieCtoS.
It discussesphenomena in German intonation that dependon the interaction between grammatical depen-dencies (projection of information structure intosyntax) and prosodic context (performance-related modifications to intonation patterns).Phonological processing in our system com-prises segmental as well as suprasegmental di-mensions uch as syllabification, modification ofword stress positions, and a symbolic encodingof intonation.
Phonological phenomena oftentouch upon more than one of these dimensions,so that mutual accessibility of the data struc-tures on each dimension had to be ensured.We present a linear representation of themultidimensional phonological data based on astraightforward linearization convention, whichsuffices to bring this conceptually multilineardata set under the scope of the well-known pro-cessing techniques for two-level morphology.1 In t roduct ionThe task of interfacing between a tactical gen-erator and a speech synthesizer is two-fold: Agrammatical description enriched with semanticand pragmatic features has to be translated intoa (qualitative) phonological description whichthen has to be mapped onto the set of (quanti-tative) parameter values needed as input to thesynthesizer.The requirements imposed by a concept-to-speech system differ from those on both textgeneration and text-to-speech systems.
In* This work has been sponsored by the Fonds zurFSrderung der wissenschaftlichen Forschung (FWF),Grant No.
P10822.text generation the generator produces a se-quence of abstract descriptions of word formswhich are-either by direct access to a lexiconor via a morphological component-transformedinto strings of graphemes and output.
Withconcept-to-speech t e task is more complex.Not only is segmental information influencedby morphonology and post-lexical rules (cover-ing, e.g., reduction and assimilation phenom-ena) but-more important-suprasegmental in-formation must be provided as well.Compared to text-to-speech the task is atthe same time easier and more difficult.
In-formation from pragmatic, semantic and syn-tactic layers are readily available.
This elimi-nates the need to analyze an input text for nec-essary cues to come up with proper pronunci-ation and prosody.
On the other hand all thisinformation must be properly accounted for tocome up with an adequate description of theutterance that-when fed into the synthesizer-produces high-quality output.
In particular,pragmatic-semantic features must be mappedonto (abstract) prosodic features.We employ an extended version of two-levelmorphology (Trost 91) for this interface) Theformalism proved to be very well suited for thetask.
The various Mmost independent subsys-tems can be kept conceptually separate result-ing in good transparency while at the same timeenabling the necessary amount of interactionbetween them.2 A Concept - to -Speech  Generat ionSystemOur concept-to-speech generation system con-sists of a pipeline of modules (Fig.
1).
A text1The extension regards the fact that the system al-lows the use of (feature-based) external information-so-called filters-to restrict he application of two-level rules.1041planning component produces entence plans,which are fed into the tactical generator.The implementation basis for the tacticalgenerator is the FUF (Elhadad 91) system.FUF is based on the theory of functional unifi-cation grammar and employs both phrase struc-ture rules and unification of feature descrip-tions.
Input is a partially specified feature de-scription which constrains the utterance to begenerated.
Output is a fully specified featuredescription (in the sense of the particular gram-mar) subsumed by the input structure, which isthen linearized to yield a sentence.The tactical generator has two layers.
Oneis dealing with sentence level generation, pro-ducing a tree-like description of a sentence, theleaves of which are lemmata annotated withmorphosyntactic and prosodic features.
Thesecond performs generation at the word levelproducing annotated phonological representa-tions of the inflected word forms which are fedinto the extended 2two-level phonology compo-nent applying morphological and phonologicalrules to arrive at the representation used as in-put for speech synthesis.A distinguishing feature of the grammar usedin the generator is the integration of sentence-level and word-level processing within the sameformalism.I Text Planner IllI Tactical GeneratorSentence Level ProcessingWord Level Processin~liiii!!
!il i!i!i il i!ii!ii!ii!i!i i!i ii iii:~i:i:;:; ~iii:i:i:iii:i!iiii!ii;ii!iiii:iiii!ii!i:iiiiiiiii l !
iill Phonology Component ~iliil!~:: i ::: :: :: ::: :.
: :::;:::: ~: ::: ::: :;: ::: :.
: :.
: :.
: ~ : ~ : ;  :~ :;: :;::;:.
:: ~: :~: ~: i: :i: :; :: :i: :::::: ::!
:!I Speech S~'nthesis /Figure 1: ArchitectureThis architecture forms an ideal platform forthe implementation of the phonological inter-face.
Necessary adaptions are limited to thedata used: An existing grammar was extendedwith features describing the information struc-ture.
The lexicon consists of entries in phonemicform (using SAMPA notation) enriched with in-2The filter handling uses the FUF formalism and thesame ratification machinery as the grammar.formation like (potential) accent and syllableboundary positions.Input to the synthesizer is a SAMPA stringenriched with qualitative ncodings of prosodicinformation (e.g., pitch accent, pauses, ...) pro-duced by the two-level rules.
Phonological spec-ifications of intonation are processed by a pho-netic interpreter (Pirker et al 97) that trans-forms these qualitative labels into quantitativeacoustic parameters.
Although some interpreta-tive work is done within the synthesizer, no lin-guistically motivated transformations are sup-posed to take place there.
These all are per-formed within the two-level component.3 The  Phono log ica l  In ter face3.1 Phenomena hand ledThe phonological description in extended two-level morphology - in our case rather two-levelphonology -serves ms the central interface wherethe modules for grammar processing and forspeech synthesis meet and communicate.A fairly complex model of phonology is re-quired in the system, also because the over-all objective of the project was to investigatewhether and how conditions in the concept-to-speech task favour a more elaborate treatmentof prosodic parameters in speech generation.The phonological description is implementedin the extended two-level framework describedin section 2 and works over a lexicon of phone-mic (rather than graphemic) representations ofword stems and inflectional affixes.
Morpho-tactic processing is thus restricted to inflec-tion, whereas compounding and derivational af-fixation are encoded in the lexicon, which istypically small in domain-tailored concept-to-speech systems.Nevertheless, in segmental phonology, thecomponent must compute morphonologicalrules in inflection as well ms post-lexical ruleswhich interact with syllabification and cliticiza-tion.To determine German syllabification andcliticization correctly, it is necessary to operateon structures larger than single words.
There-fore phonological processing applies to chunkswhose size depends on the one rule in the sys-tem that requires the largest phonological con-text to operate correctly.
Because of the into-nation rules discussed in section 4, phonological1042processing applies to the whole utterance.The three phonological aspects segmentalrepresentation, syllabification, and word stressare mutually dependent in German phonologyin all logically possible directions (Niklfeld et al95).
The phonology component treats them ina unified description, which also covers the rarecases of word-internal and phrase-level stressshift in German.
3While some segmental and supra-segmentalrules in the phonological description depend onphonological context only, some others (like therule for stress shifts as described above) dependon grammatical information on levels as highup as textual representation.
For example, theGerman word for "weather" loses word stressin compounds when they appear in weather-reports (where the concept weather is "textuallyexophoric" (Benware 87)).
Such phenomena areencoded in our extended two-level system byphonological rules which access the grammat-ical representation via feature-filters.There are few theoretical frameworks incomputational linguistics for tackling such abreadth of phonological issues.
Linguisticallyambitious approaches are often designed withlittle regard to ease of use in large descrip-tions, whereas leaner formalisms do not scalewell to complex data stretching across a numberof phonological dimensions.
The chosen frame-work of extended two-level phonology standsbetween these poles.3.2 Linearization of multi-tierphonological structuresAs the two-level framework assumes one lexi-cal and one surface string only, we use a linearrepresentation of our multidimensional phono-logical data, as follows:Each linear phonological string in the com-ponent stands for a multi-tier structure whichcombines a given number of separate dimensionsof phonological structure.
The tier of phonolog-ical segments (members of the German SAMPA",~') "s used to provide the backbone of skeletalpoints on which all units of the representationare linked together.
Each unit on any phono-logical tier has scope over/has ms its domain acontinuous ection of skeleton points.
For each3Otherwise, German has lexically specified wordstress.tier, a convention is provided which designatesthat part of each domain that is used for thelinking.
For some supra-segmental tiers (sylla-bles, phonological words) the leftmost unit ofthe scope domain ms computed by the respec-tive rule is used for this purpose.
For othertiers the domain edges are unspecified in thelexicon (stresses and accents, which have scopeover stretches of syllables), and therefore otherwell-defined parts of the scope domain are usedfor the linking (such as the vocalic nucleus ofa syllable).
Where it appears natural to doso, units on certain phonological tiers are alsolinked to right domain edges (ms is the case withphrase and boundary tone markers, which havescope over any phonological material between anuclear tone and the right boundary of an into-nation phrase.
)While these representations clearly encodesome fragment of atltosegmental phonology inan implicit way, they do not allow for the at-tachment of more than one suprasegmental unitfrom the same tier to a single segmental unit.Such power was not needed in our application.The representation allowed for easy incremen-tal extensions to our descriptions, as additionaltiers of representation were added ms the cover-age of higher-level prosodic issues such as sen-tence intonation was extended.3.3 Implementational notesUsing the linearized representation, the well-known processing schemes for two-level mor-phology can be applied directly.
Contempo-rary compilers for two-level morphology allowto specify sets of symbols that are ignored inindividual rules.
Extensive application of suchsyntactic sugar enables us to keel) the rule for-mulations over the collapsed representation eco-nomical and relatively transparent.
We notein passing that although collapsing multilineardata-structures onto a single tier increases thelikeliness of combinatorial explosion in process-ing when using the two-level automata s trans-ducers, it turns out that in our already quitecomplex description this does not become a realproblem.In earlier publications, we described howwe implement phonological generalizations thatstretch across phonological dimensions (Niklfeldet al 95), and we proposed implementations ofsuprasegmental issues such ms stress shift and1043the projection of pitch accents depending on fo-cus information (Niklfeld & Alter 96).
We havealso discussed time structure (Alter et al 96).In section 4 we go beyond this to show thatintonation in German ha~s properties that arebest implemented by combining our two-levelphonological description, which is well-suited toexpress constraints on linear contexts, with thepower of a unification-based feature grammar.4 Dea l ing  w i th  I n tonat ionThis section describes the novel approach of us-ing the extended two-level component for spec-ifying "appropriate" intonation and phrasing.4.1 Dif ferent perspect ivesThe diversity of factors that influences intona-tion is mirrored in the variety of research thatdeals with intonation:Phonologists and phoneticians are concernedwith the inspection of the form of intona-tion contours, while on the other hand thereis a strong tradition in the field of syn-tax (keyword: focus projection) and seman-tics/pragmatics (keyword: given vs. new infor-mation) that merely deal with the problem ofaccent location, neglecting its form.Another strand of research deals with the cou-pling of information structure and phonology,i.e., the tight association of meanings and tunessuch as in (Prevost & Steedman 94) where theclassification of the utterance's elements alongthe dimensions theme/rheme and focus/groundunambiguously triggers the selection of tones.In the field of text-to-speech synthesis, at last,intonation most often is handled by using algo-rithms and heuristics that intermingle informa-tion on syntax, punctuation, word-class infor-mation etc.
in a rather unstructured way.4.2 Our  des ignIn our system a strict separation of levels is em-ployed: only the two-level coml)onent deals withtonal specifications.
Within the tactical gener-ator only candidate positions for both pitch ac-cents and phrasal boundaries are selected.This reflects the fact that though prosodyheavily depends on grammaticM and pragmaticfactors, its realization is also strongly influencedby phonological nd phonetic onstraints whichare much more "naturally" handled by the two-level component.
In the terminology of two-level morphology the grammar provides a un-derspecified lexical representation from whichthe concrete surface form is derived.
In thelexicon every (accentable) word contains an ab-stract pitch tone (T) within its phonemic rep-resentation.
The "lexical boundaries" (B), i.e.,candidates for boundaries between intonationalphra~ses (IP), are inserted by the generator inbetween words and these T and B are thenmapped to GToBI labels (German Tones andBreak Indices- (Grice et al 96)) or discardedi.e., mapped it to surface 0.The following example (in pseudo-code) de-fines a basic condition on the IP: it contains atleast one, at most three pitch accents, and hasan obligatory boundary tone.<IP> : := {<P i tchTone>{<Pi tchTone>}}<Pit chTone>< IP_Bound><IP_Bound> ::= L-LY, I L-HY, I H-LY.
I H-HY.<PitchTone>: := <Ris ingT> I <Fal l ingT><RisingT> ::= H* \] L+H* \] L*+H<Fal l ingT> : := L* I H+L* I H+!H*In order to determine the realization of a Tthe grammatical information the generator pro-vided for the word in question is inspected viathe filter mechanism: E.g.
if a words wasmarked a~s unaccented (acc -) the tone will bediscarded or the selection of boundary tones istriggered by the sentence type (L-L7, in the caseof a~ssertions):T:O <= _ f i l te r : (head (phon (acc -)));B:L-LY.
<=> _ f i lter: (head (s-type assert)) ;While the rules discussed so far have beenpure filter applications the last rule encodes aconstraint on phonological context:B:L-HY.
=> <Fal l ingT> <UnaccSyl l>* _ \]<RisingT> <UnaccSyll> <UnaccSyll>+ ;: i ?
,| ji iI i.H* L-H% .
H* ' 'H-L%Figure 2: Contours to be avoided (vertical linesdesignate syllable boundaries)The rationale behind this rule is, that we wantto avoid the contours hown in figure 2 when re-alizing IP boundaries.
The L-HT, boundary basi-cally designates a fall-rise contour which shoukl1044be a felicitous if the last pitch accent beforethe boundary was a falling one.
The secondterm states, that after a rising pitch accent hesame boundary contour is to be produced onlyif the pitch peak is followed by two or moreunaccented syllables thus ensuring that thereis "enough time" to produce the fall-rise.
Atthe same time the production of the concurringH-LT, is blocked, which would produce a longmonotonous stretch on a high level, that mightbe perceived as unnatural.The rules thus also implement some of thevariability in prosody that is due to the interac-tion of phrasing and pitch accents much in thespirit of tone-linking (Gussenhoven 84).5 Conc lus ionWith our approach we unify some of the effortsoutlined in 4.1 and come up with a system thatis more clearly structured than the "algorith-mic" approach.By basing our work on GToBI - and thus ona variant of Pierrehumbert's model on intona-tion - we have access to the wealth of phono-logical research undertaken i the tone sequenceparadigm.The handling of accentuation and phrmsing bythe generator esembles the syntacto-semanticapproaches.
Only a few tags such as emphasis\[EMPH\] and (conceptual or textual) givenness\[GIVENJ which are rather easily identifiable bythe conceptual component and have a straight-forward influence on the phonetic realization areused.
In this respect our approach is less re-fined than, e.g., (Prevost &: Steedman 94) as nofully fledged semantic module is integrated thatcould deal with aspects of information structurein a really principled wayOn the other hand we employ a very flexibleand transparent phonological model.
But notall intonation contours that can be observed inhuman speakers are equally convenient for theuse in synthetic speech, where the deviationsin duration, amplitude, etc.
may lead to resultsthat are perceived as highly unnatural.
We thusrestrict the set of possible contours licensed bythe GToBI to a simplified subset.The system is implemented and deals withthe task of generating monologuous weather e.-ports.ReferencesAlter K., Matiasek J., Niklfeld G.: ModelingProsody in a German Concept-to-Speech Sys-tem, in Gibbon D.(ed.
), Natural LanguageProcessing and Speech Technology, Moutonde Gruyter, Berlin, 1996.Benware W.A.
: Accent Variation in GermanNominal Compounds of the Type (A (BC)),Linguistische Berichte, 108:102-27, 1987.Elhadad M.: FUF: The Universal UnifierUser Manual, Dept.of Computer Science,Columbia University, 1991.Grice M., Reyelt M., Benzmiiller R., MayerJ., Batliner A.: Consistency in Transcrip-tion and Labelling of German Intonation withGToBI, Proc.
of ICSLP 96, Philadelphia,pp.1716-19, 1996.Gussenhoven C.: On the grammar and seman-tics of sentence accents, Dordrecht: Foris,1984.Niklfeld G., Pirker H., Trost H.: Using Two-Level Morphology ms a Generator- Synthe-sizer Interface in Concept-to-Speech, in Proc.of Eurospeech 95, Madrid, 2:1223-26, 1995.Niklfeld G., Alter K.: Covering prosody inconcept-to-speech via an extended two-level-phonology component, in ComputationalPhonology in Speech Technology - 2nd Meet-ing of SIGPHON, Santa Cruz, CA, 1996.Matiasek J., Trost H.: An HPSG-Based Gen-erator for German - An Experiment in theReusability of Linguistic Resources, in Proc.of COLING 96, Copenhagen, pp.752-57,1996.Pirker H., Alter K., Matiasek J., Trost H., Ku-bin G.: A System of Stylized Intonation Con-tours for German, in Proc.
of Eurospeech 97,Rhodes, Greece, 1:307-10, 1997.Prevost S., Steedman M.: Specifying Intonationfrom Context for Speech Synthesis, SpeechCommunication, 15:139-153, 1994.Trost, H.: X2MORF: A Morphological Compo-nent Based on Augmented Two-Level Mor-phology, in: IJCAI-91, Morgan Kaufmann,San Mateo, CA, pp.1024-1030, 1991.1045
