Identifying Syntactic Role of Antecedent in Korean RelativeClause Using Corpus and Thesaurus InformationHui-Feng Li, Jong-Hyeok Lee, Geunbae LeeDepartment of Computer Science and EngineeringPohang University of Science and TechnologySan 31 Hyoja-dong, Nam-gu, Pohang 790-784, Republic of Koreahflee@madonna.postech.ac.kr, {jhlee, gblee)@postech.ac.krAbst ractThis paper describes an approach to identify-ing the syntactic role of an antecedent in a Ko-rean relative clause, which is essential to struc-tural disambiguation a d semantic analysis.
Ina learning phase, linguistic knowledge such asconceptual co-occurrence patterns and syntac-tic role distribution of antecedents is extractedfrom a large-scale corpus.
Then, in an appli-cation phase, the extracted knowledge is ap-plied in determining the correct syntactic roleof an antecedent in relative clauses.
Unlike pre-vious research based on co-occurrence patternsat the lexical level, we represent co-occurrencepatterns with concept ypes in a thesaurus.
Inan experiment, he proposed method showed ahigh accuracy rate of 90.4% in resolving am-biguitie s of syntactic role determination f an-tecedents.1 In t roduct ionA relative clause is the one that modifies an an-tecedent in a sentence.
To determine the syn-tactic role of the antecedent in a verb argu-ment structure of relative clause is important inparsing and structural disambiguation(Li et al,1998).
While applying case frames of a verb forstructural disambiguation, identifying the roleof antecedent will affect he correctness ofstruc-tural disambiguation impressively.In this paper, we will describe a method ofidentifying the syntactic role of antecedents,which consists of two phases.
First, in thelearning phase, conceptual patterns (CPs) andsyntactic role distribution of antecedents areextracted from a corpus of 6 million words,the Korean Language Information Base (KLIB).The conceptual patterns reflect he possible caserestriction of a verb with concept ypes, whilethe syntactic role distribution shows the prefer-ence of syntactic role of antecedents of a verb.Second, in the application phase, the syntacticrole of an antecedent is decided using CPs andthe syntactic role distribution.In regards to the rest of this paper, Section2 will review the problems and related work.Section 3 will describe a statistical approachof conceptual pattern extraction from a largecorpus as knowledge for determining syntacticroles.
Section 4 will describe how to identifysyntactic roles using conceptual patterns andsyntactic role distribution of antecedents in thecorpus.
Section 5 will then present an experi-mental evaluation of the method.
The last sec-tion makes a conclusion with some discussion.The Yale Romanization is used to represent Ko-rean expressions.2 P rob lems and  Re la ted  WorkIn English, it is possible to recognize the syntac-tic role of antecedents by their position (trace)in relative clauses and the valency informationof verbs.
For example, the syntactic role of anantecedent man can be recognized as subject ofthe relative clause in a sentence "He is the manwho lives next door" and as object in a sen-tence "He is the man whom I met."
The rela-tive pronouns uch as who, whom, that, whose,and which can also be used in identifying therole of antecedents in relative clauses.However, it is not a trivial work to identifythe syntactic role of antecedents in Korean rel-ative clauses.
Korean is such a head final lan-guage that the antecedent comes after the rel-ative clause.
The rest of this section will de-scribe three main characteristics of Korean rel-ative clauses that make it difficult to determinethe syntactic role of their antecedents.
The firstcharacter ist ic  s that unlike English, Koreanlacks relative words corresponding to English756SOT.
"- .
, .
.
.
?
?
, .
= , .
.
, ?
.
?
.
?o?o ,o .opFigure 1: Syntactic dependency tree for (1)relative pronouns.
Instead, an adnominal verbending follows its verb stem of a relative clausemodifying an antecedent.
The adnominal verbending does not provide any information aboutthe syntactic role of antecedent.
For example,the relative clause kang-eyse hulu- (flow in ariver) in sentence (1) modifies the antecedentmwul- (water), while adnominal verb ending -nun provides no clue about the syntactic role ofthe antecedent mwul (water).
Figure 1 showsthe syntactic dependency tree (SDT) of sen-tence (1).
We need to decide the syntactic roleof the antecedent mwul- (water) in the argu-ment structure of the verb hulu- (flow) whenapplying case frames of the verb for structuraldisambiguation.
The dependency parser (Lee,1995) only gives the syntactic relation mod be-tween them, which should be regarded as subjectin the relative clause.
(1) nanun kang-eyse hulu-nun mwul-lul poatt-ta.
(I saw water that flowed in a river.
)As the second characterist ic,  the syntac-tic role of an antecedent cannot be determinedby word order.
This is because Korean is a rel-atively free word-order language like Japanese,Russian, or Finnish, and also because some ar-guments of a verb may be frequently omitted.In sentence (2), for example, the verb of rela-tive clause nolay-lul pwulless-ten (where \[I\] sanga song \[at the place\]) have two arguments \[I\]and \[place\] omitted.
Thus, the antecedent kos-(place) might be identified as subject or adver-bial in the relative clause.~BI' IFigure 2: System architecture(2) nolay-lul pwulless-ten kos-ey na-nun kass-ta.
(I went to the place where \[I\] sang a song\[at he place\].
)The th i rd  character ist ic  ofKorean relativeclauses is that the case particle of an antecedent,that indicates the syntactic role in the relativeclause, is omitted uring relativization.
In fact,in a relatively free-word order language, the caseparticles are very important to the syntactic roledetermination.Due to lack of syntactic lues, it is very dif-ficult to construct general rules for identify-ing the syntactic role of antecendents.
Thus,the corpus-based method has been preferedto the rule-based one in solving the prob-lem of syntactic role determination i  Koreanrelative clauses.
Yang and Kim (1993) pro-posed a corpus-based method, where, for eachnoun/verb pair, its word co-occurrence and sub-categorization scores are extracted at lexicallevel.
Park and Kim (1997) described a methodof semantic role determination of antecedentsusing verbal patterns and statistic informationfrom a corpus.
These word co-occurrence pat-terns are all at lexical-level, so we have to con-struct a large amount of word co-occurrencepatterns and statistical information before ap-plying to a real large-scale problem.
Actually,the system performance mainly relies on the do-main of application, the number of word co-occurrence patterns extracted, and the size ofcorpus.757In the following sections, we will describean approach to acquiring statistical informationat conceptual level rather than at lexical levelfrom a corpus using conceptual hierarchy in theKadokawa thesaurus titled New Synonym Dic-tionary (Ohno and Hamanishi, 1981), and alsodescribe a method of syntactic role determina-tion using the extracted knowledge.
The systemarchitecture is shown in Figure 2.3 Ext ract ion  of  S ta t i s t i c  In fo rmat ionf rom CorpusFirst, for each of 100 verbs selected by order offrequency in the KLIB (Korean Language In-formation Base) corpus of 6 million words, itssyntactic relational patterns (SRPs) of the form(Noun, Syntactic relation, Verb) are extractedfrom the corpus.
Then, the nominal words inthe SRPs are substituted with their correspond-ing concept codes at level 4 of the Kadokawathesaurus.
A nominal word may have multi-ple meanings uch as C1,C2, ..., Cn.
However,since we cannot determine which meaning ofthe nominal word is used in a SRP, we uni-1 formly add n to the frequency of each conceptcode.
Through this processing, the syntacticrelational pattern (SRP) changes into the con-ceptual frequency pattern (CFP), ({< C1, fl >,< C2, f2 >,.
.
.
,< Crn, fm >},SRj,Vk), whereCi represents a concept code at level four of theKadokawa thesaurus, fi indicates the frequencyof the code Ci, and SRj shows a syntactic rela-tion between these concept codes and verb Vk.These patterns are then generalized by a con-cept type filter into more abstract conceptualpatterns (CPs), {({el, C2, ..., Cn}, SRj, Vk)ll <j < 5, 1 _< k < 100}.
Unlike in CFPs, the con-cept code in the more generalized CPs may benot only at level four (denoted as L4), but alsoat level three (L3) and two (L2).
In additionto the CPs, we also extract he syntactic roledistributiion of antecedents.3.1 Retr ieving Syntactic Relat ionalPat terns  f rom CorpusUnlike the conventional parsing problem whosemain goal is to completely analyze a whole sen-tence, the extraction of syntactic relational pat-terns (SRPs) aims to partially analyze sentencesand thus to get the syntactic relations betweennominals and verbs.
For this, we designed apartial parser, the analysis result of which isobviously not as precise as that of a full-parser.However, it can provide much useful informa-tion.
For the set of 100 verbs, a total of 282,216syntactic relational patterns (SRPs) was ex-tracted from the KLIB corpus.
During the gen-eralization step, the problematic patterns arefiltered out.In Korean, the syntactic relation of nominalwords toward a verb is mainly determined bycase particles.
During the extraction of SRPs(Ni, SRj,Vk), we only consider the syntacticrelation SRjs determined by 5 types of caseparticles: nominative (-i/ka/kkeyse), accusative(-ul/lul), and three adverbial (-ey/eynun,se/eyse/eysenun, -to/ulo/ulonun).3.2 Conceptual  Pattern Extract ion3.2.1 Thesaurus  H ierarchyFor the purpose of type generalization of nom-inal words in SRPs, the Kadokawa thesaurustitled New Synonym Dictionary (Ohno andHamanishi, 1981) is used, which has a four-levelhierarchy with about 1,000 semantic classes.Each class of upper three levels is further di-vided into 10 subclasses, and is encoded with aunique number.
For example, the class 'station-ary' at level three is encoded with the number96 and classified into ten subclasses, Figure 3shows the structure of the Kadokawa thesaurus.To assign the concept code of Kadokawathesaurus to Korean words, we take advan-tage of the existing Japanese-Korean bilingualdictionary (JKBD) that was developed for aJapanese-Korean MT system called COBALT-J/K.
The bilingual dictionary contains morethan 120,000 words, the meaning of which is en-coded with the concept codes that are at levelfour in the Kadokawa thesaurus.
Thus, Koreanwords in the SRPs are automatically assignedtheir corresponding concept codes of level fourthrough JKBD.3.2.2 Principle of General izat ionWe encoded the nouns in SRPs extracted by theparser with concept codes from the Kadokawathesaurus, and examined histograms of the fre-quency of concept codes.
We observed that thefrequency of codes for different syntactic rela-tions of a verb showed very different distributionshapes.
This means that we could use the dis-tribution of concept codes, together with theirfrequencies as clues for conceptual pattern ex-758conceptII I i I I I I I i I?
I : ;J ~ s 6 ~ I ?'
I I I t I I I I I 1 I " i  I I I I I I I Io~ (~1 e~z ~ u~ oss qt~6 w'9 i s l  O~9 ~o 9~1 9~1 9~ ~4 I ~S6 ~ 9Sa 9~Figure 3: Concept hierarchy of Kadokawa the-saurustraction.
From the histograms of codes of bothsubject and object relational patterns for theverb ttena-ta (leave), we observed that conceptcodes about human (codes from 500 to 599) ap-pear most frequently in the role of subject, andcodes of position (from 100 to 109), codes ofplace (from 700 to 709) and codes of building(from 940 to 949) appear most often in the roleof object.For each verb Vk, we first analyzed the co-occurrence frequencies fi of concept codes Ciof noun N, and then computed an average fre-quency fave,t and standard eviation at aroundlave,t, at level g (denoted as Lt) of the con-cept hierarchy.
We then replaced fi with itsassociated z-score k$,e.
k$,e is the strength ofcode frequency f at Lt, and represents thestandard deviation above the average of fre-quency fave,t.
Referring to Smadja's definition(Smadja, 1993), the standard eviation at atLt and strength kf,t of the code frequencies aredefined as shown in formulas 1 and 2.nt 2 :_fow,t)at = V nt - 1 (1)k$,,,,t = fi,t - fave,t (2)atwhere fi,t is the frequency of concept code Ci atLt of Kadokawa thesaurus, fave,t is the averagefrequency of codes at Lt, nt is the number ofconcept codes at Lt.3.2.3 Code  General izat ionThe standard eviation at at Lt characterizesthe shape of the distribution of code frequen-Level Threshold of standard deviation O'OT l Threshold ofsubj obj advl adv2 adv3 Strength ko,tL4 2.0 8.0 0.5 0.1 0.9 k0,4=4.0L3 6.0 16.0 1.5 2.0 2.0 k0,3=l.0L2 30.0 50.0 15.0 4.0 10.0 ko,2=-0.60Table 1: Thresholds of the filtercies.
If al is small, then the shape of the his-togram will tend to be flat, which means thateach concept code can be used equally as an ar-gument of a verb with syntactic role SRi.
Ifat is large, it means that there is one or morecodes that tend to be peaks in the histogram,and the corresponding nouns for these conceptcodes are likely to be used as arguments of averb.
The filter in our system selects the pat-terns that have a variation larger than thresholda0,t, and pulls out the concept codes that have astrength of frequency larger than threshold k0,l.If the value of the variation is small, than wecan assume there is no peak frequency for thenouns.
The patterns that are produced by thefilter should represent the concept ypes of ex-tracted words that appear most frequently assyntactic role SRi with verb Vk.We later analyzed the distribution of fre-quency f/ in CFPjs to produce an aver-age frequency fave,t and standard deviationat.
Through experimentation, we decidedthe threshold of standard deviation a0,t andstrength of frequency k0,t as shown in Table 1.The lower the value of threshold k0,t is assigned,the more concept codes can be extracted asconceptual patterns from the CFPs.
We main-tained a balance between extracting conceptualcodes at low levels of the conceptual hierar-chy for the specific usage of concept ype andextracting eneral concept ypes for enhancingoverall system performance.
These values maybe variable in different application.In Table 2, we enlist the concept ypes thathave more than 5 appearances in the CFP ofverb ttena-ta (leave).
The strength of frequen-cies for generalization is calculated with formula2.1 - 0.932kl,4 = 2.82513 = 0.024759code code code code code l code l(freq.)
(freq.)
(freq.)
(freq.)
(freq.)
(freq.
)061(10) 086(7) 117(5) 118(7) 158(5) 160(5)179(5) 324(5) 410(12) 411(14) 430(16) 436(5)480(7) 481(8) 482(9) 500(23) 501(31) 503(31)507(35 508(30) 511(11) 513(8) 514(8) 515(5)516(5) 519(6) 521(15) 522(19) 523(10) 525(7)530(5) 535(6) 540(15) 550(7) 572(8) 576(9)580(7) 581(7) 590(8) 591(5) 595(12) 814(9)822(5) 828(5) 830(5) 833(7) 941(8) 997(7)998(6) other(427)* No.
of codes:  n 4 = 932* Average freq.
: fa , .
,e ,4  = 932/1000 = 0.932* Standard  dev ia t ion :  a t = 2.821530* 'other' in the  table means the total freq.
of nouns less than 5* The numbers  in brackets  are the  f requenc ies  of  code  appearanceTable 2: Concept ypes and frequencies in CFP({< Ci, fi >},subj,ttena-ta)12 - 0.932k12,4 -- 2.82513 - 3.917614 - 0.932k14,4 - 2.82513 - 4.626Since the value of k0,4 is set at 4.0, as shownin Table 1, the concept codes with frequenciesof more than 13, as the equation for k14,4 shows,are selected as generalized concept ypes at L4.After abstraction at L4, the system performsgeneralization at L3.
It removes elected fre-quencies, such as frequency 14 of code 411 inTable 2, and sums up the frequencies of the re-maining concept codes to form the frequencyof higher level group.
For example, the systemremoves the frequency for code 411 from thegroup {410(12), 411(14), 412(3), 413(0), 414(0),415(0), 416(1), 417(0), 415(0), 419(0)}, thensums up the frequencies of the remaining codesfor a more abstract code of 41.
The frequencyof code 41 then becomes 16.
Through this pro-cess, the system performs a generalization at L3for the more abstract ypes of the concept.
Thesystem calculates ae and strength Kf,e, selectsthe most promising codes, and stores concep-tual patterns ({C1, C2, C3, ...}, SRj, Vk) as theknowledge source for syntactic role determina-tion in real texts, where concept ype Ci is cre-ated by the generalization procedure.
After gen-eralization of the CFP patterns for the subjectrole of the verb ttena-ta (leave), the producedconceptual patterns are: ({411,430, 500, ..., 06,11, ..., 99, 1}, subj, ttena-ta).3.3 Syntact i c  Role  D is t r ibut ion  ofAntecedentsIn (Yang et al, 1993), they defined subcatego-rization score (SS) of a verb considering the verbargument structure in a corpus.
They assertedthat the SS of a verb represents how likely a verbmight have a specific grammatical complement.We observed from analyzing the corpus thatwe cannot infer the syntactic roles of an-tecedents from subcategorization scores sincethe syntactic role distribution of verb argumentsin a corpus is so different from the syntactic roledistribution of antecedents due to the propertyof free word language.
In Korean, an argumentof a verb could be omitted, and so the subcat-egorization score don't provide possible trendof the role of antecedent in many cases.
Forexample, 26.8% of arguments of the verb ttena-ta (leave) are used as subjects, and 54.4% areused as objects, but 74.41% of antecedents ofthe verb are of subject role, and 6.9% are ofobject role.Although the distribution of antecedents inecessary to our task, we cannot automaticallyretrieve the syntactic role distribution of themfrom the corpus.
We extracted relative clausesfor specific verbs from the corpus, and thencounted the number of syntactic roles of theantecedents manually by language trained peo-ple.
Since there are about 200 to 500 relativeclauses for each verb in the corpus, it is possibleto check this information.
This information isrepresented by relative score RSk(SRi) of syn-tactic role SRi for antecedents of verb Vk as isshown bellow and is used in syntactic role de-termination as described in section 4:RSk(SRi)- freqk(SRi) (3)freq(Vk)where freq(Vk) are the frequency of verb Vkof relative clauses, and freqk(SRi) is the fre-quency of syntactic role SRi of antecedents inrelative clauses including verb Vk in the corpus.4 Identifying Deep SyntacticRelationWhile determining syntactic relation for an-tecedents of relative clauses, the system checksthe argument structure of the verb in a rela-tive clause first, and then records the empty(or omitted) arguments of the verb in relative7602*2 is-a 2*2 is-a 2* I is-a4+2 penalty(l.O) 2+3 penalty(0.5) 4+2 penahy(0.5)Figure 4: Conceptual similarity computationSyntactic No.
of Percentage Accuracyrelation appearances (%) (%)subject 1,087objectadverb(-ey)adverb(-eyse)adverb(do)total431121191141,77261.34%24.32%6.82%1.08%6.44%100%90%92%89%92%89%90.4%Table 3: The test results of syntactic role deter-mination for antecedentsclause referring to the verb valency information.The antecedent that the verb phrase is modify-ing can be one of these empty arguments.An antecedent (a noun) usually has oneor more meanings, which causes ambigu-ity in determining the correct syntactic re-lation between the antecedent and a verb.We assume that an antecedent has meaningsC1, C2, C3, ..., Cn, and that CPi is a conceptualpattern ({P1, P2, ..., Pro}, SRi, Vk) correspond-ing to syntactic relation SP~ of verb Vk.
Theevaluation score SIMi (Np, Vk) of an antecedentNp that can be syntactic role SRi with verb Vkis defined as formula 4, and conceptual similar-ity Csim(Cw, Pj) between concept Cw and Pjas formula 5.SIMI(Np, Vk) = rnax(Csirn(Cw,Pj)) 1 < w < n, 1 ~ j ~_ m(4)Csim(Cw,  Pj ) 2 * leve l (MSCA(Cw,  Pj )) = ?
ispenalty (5) level( Cw ) + level( Pj )where MSCA(Cw, Pj) in Csim(Cw, Pj) rep-resents the most specific common ancestor(MSCA) of concepts Cw and Pj in theKadokawa concept hierarchy.
Level(Cw) refersto the depth of concept Cw from the root node inthe concept hierarchy.
Is_a Penalty is a weightfactor reflecting that Cw as a descendant of Pjis preferable to other cases.
Conceptual simi-larity computation with formula 5 is shown inFigure 4.Based on these definitions, the syntactic re-lation SRj between antecedent Np and verb Vkcan be calculated as follows:1.
Let R = {SP~\[SRi is a syntactic relationof an empty (or omitted) argument in therelative clause of Irk, 1 < i < 5}.2.
For each conceptual pattern CPi of verb Vkof which SRi is in R, and for each conceptcode Pi in CPi, compute SIMi(Np, Vk).3.
Determine the syntactic relation of an-tecedent Np to SRj on the condition thatSIMj(Np, Vk) has the largest value in{SIMi(Np, Vk)\[1 < i < 5} and SRj in R.If two or more SIMi(Np, Vk) have the samevalue, decide syntactic role referring to thehigher relative score RSk(SRi) of the syn-tactic role of the verb Vk.Here, syntactic relation can be one of subj,obj, advl, adv2, and adv3.
The symbols advl,adv2, and adv3 represent adverbs with case par-ticles -ey, -eyse, and -lo, respectively.5 Exper imenta l  Eva luat ionAn informal way to evaluate the correctness ofsyntactic relation determination is to have anexpert examine the test patterns and sourcesentences that the patterns appears, and givehis/her judgment about the correctness of theresults produced by the system.
In our exper-iment, the correctness of syntactic and concep-tual relation determination was evaluated man-ually by humans who were well trained in de-pendency syntax.As a test set, we extracted 1,772 sentencesthat included relative clauses for the 100 verbsfrom 1.5 million word corpora of integrated Ko-rean information base and test books of primaryschool.
The distribution of syntactic relation ofantecedents among them and the test resultswere shown in Table 3.
There were 1,087 an-tecedents (61.34%) that were of subject role.The baseline accuracy of the problem is 61.34%.That is, if we always select subject role for an-tecedents, the accuracy will reach 61.34%.761Our system showed 90.4% of accuracy on av-erage in syntactic relation identification, whichshows that the conceptual patterns and relativescore of syntactic relation produced in the firstphase can be a good source for determining thesyntactic relation of an antecedent.Through experiment, we observed several fac-tors that affect the performance of the system.First, the multiple meanings of a noun will af-fect the frequency distribution of concept codes.In our system, we cope with this problem byadjusting the threshold of standard deviationand strength value.
The second problem is thesparseness of corpus domain.
If the corpus forlearning is specified as a certain domain, it willgreatly increase the validity of conceptual pat-terns.
If we use a sense tagged corpus in thelearning stage, we can achieve high accuracy insyntactic relation determination.6 Concluding RemarksThis paper describes an approach for syntac-tic role determination between an antecedentand a verb in relative clause for semantic anal-ysis.
This method consists of two phases.
Inthe first phase, the system extracts conceptualpatterns and syntactic role distribution of an-tecedents from a large corpus.
In the secondphase, the system applies the extracted con-ceptual patterns as knowledge in determiningcorrect syntactic relations for structural disam-biguation and semantic analysis in MT systemfor CG generation.Unlike previous research that calculates ta-tistical information at a lexical level for everypair of words, which may require a lot of spaceto store resulting patterns, we represent thoseco-occurrence patterns with concept types ofKadokawa thesaurus.
The problematic concepttypes are filtered out by the type generaliza-tion procedure.
We used a corpus of 6 mil-lion words for conceptual pattern extraction.Our method can cope with the general scopeof texts.
In the experiment evaluation, the pro-posed method showed a high accuracy rate of90.4% in identifying the syntactic role of an-tecedents.The method described in this paper can beused in resolving syntactic role of antecedentsin relative clauses of other free word order lan-guages, and can also be used in generating se-lectional restrictions of case frames of verbs.ReferencesLee, J. H. and G. Lee.
1995.
A Depen-dency Parser of Korean based on Connec-tionist/Symbolic Techniques.
Lecture Noteson Artificial Intelligence 990, pages 95-106.Springer-Verlag, Berlin.Li, H. F., J. H. Lee and G. Lee.
1998.
Con-ceptual Graph Generation from Syntactic De-pendency Structures in an MT Environment.
(to be published by Computer Processing ofOriental Languages in 1998).Ohno, S. and M. Hamanishi.
1981.
New Syn-onym Dictionary, Kadokawa Shoten, Tokyo(written in Japanese).Park, S. B. and Y. T. Kim.
1997.
Semantic RoleDetermination in Korean Relative ClausesUsing Idiomatic Patterns.
In Proceedings of17th International Conference on ComputerProcessing of Oriental Languages, pages 1-6.Hong Kong.Smadja, F. 1993.
Retrieving Collocations fromText: Xtract, Computational Linguistics,19(1):143-177.Yang, J. and Y. T. Kim.
1993.
Identifying DeepGrammatical Relations in Korean RelativeClauses Using Corpus Information.
In Pro-ceedings of Natural Language Processing Pa-cific Rim Symposium '93, pages 337-344.
Tae-Jon, Korea.762
