Separable Verbs in a Reusable Morphological Dictionary for GermanPius ten Hacken 1& Stephan Bopp 2l Institut ftir Informatik / ASW 2Lexicologie, Faculteit der LetterenUniversit~it Basel, Petersgraben 51 Vrije Universiteit, De Boelelaan 1105CH-4051 Basel (Switzerland) NL- 1081 HV Amsterdam (Netherlands)email: tenhacken@ubaclu.unibas.ch email: bopp@let.vu.nlAbstractSeparable verbs are verbs with prefixes which, depending on the syntactic ontext, can occur asone word written together or discontinuously.
They occur in languages such as German andDutch and constitute a problem for NLP because they are lexemes whose forms cannot always berecognized by dictionary lookup on the basis of a text word.
Conventional solutions take a mixedlexical and syntactic approach.
In this paper, we propose the solution offered by Word Manager,consisting of string-based recognition by means of rules of types also required for periphrasticinflection and clitics.
In this way, separable verbs are dealt with as part of the domain of reusablelexical resources.
We show how this solution compares favourably with conventionalapproaches.1.
The  ProblemIn German there exists a large class of verbswhich behave like aufh6ren ('stop'),illustrated in (1).
(1) a. Anna glaubt, dass Bernard aufh6rt.
('Anna believes that Bernard stops')b. Claudia h6rt jetzt auf.
('Claudia stops now PRT')c. Daniel versucht aufzuh6ren.
('Daniel tries to_stop')In subordinate clauses as in (1 a), the particleauf and the inflected part of the verb h6rt arewritten together.
In main clauses such as(lb), the inflected form h6rt is moved byverb-second, leaving the particle stranded.
Ininfinitive clauses with the particle zu ('to'),zu separates the two components of the verband all three elements are written together.In analysis, the problem of separable verbsis to combine the two parts of the verb incontexts such as (lb) and (lc).
Such acombination is necessary because syntacticand semantic properties of aufh6ren are thesame, irrespective of whether the two partsare written together or not, but they cannotbe deduced from the syntactic and semanticproperties of the parts.
Therefore, asolutionto the problem of separable verbs will treat(lb) as if it read (2a) and (lc) as (2b):(2) a. Claudia aufh6rt jetzt.b.
Daniel versucht zu aufh6ren.The problem arises in a very similar fashionin Dutch, as the Dutch translations (3) of thesentences in (1) show.
The only difference isthat the infinitive in (3c) is not writtentogether.
(3) a. Anna gelooft dat Bernard ophoudt.b.
Claudia houdt nu op.c.
Daniel probeert op te houden.On the other hand, the problem of separableverbs in German and Dutch differs from thecorresponding one in English, becauseEnglish verbs such as look up are multi-word units in all contexts.
A treatment ofthese cases which is in line with the solutionproposed here is described by Tschichold(forthcoming).As suggested by the English translation,separable verbs in German and Dutch arelexemes.
Therefore, an important issue inevaluating a mechanism for dealing withthem is how it fits in with the reusability oflexical resources.Given the importance of the orthographiccomponent in the problem, it ~s notsurprising that it is hardly if ever treated inthe linguistic literature.4712.
Previous ApproachesIn existing systems or resources for NLP,separable verbs are usually treated as alexicographic and syntactic problem.
Twotypical approaches can be illustrated on thebasis of Celex and Rosetta.Celex (http://www.kun.nl/celex) is a lexicaldatabase project offering a Germandictionary with 50'000 entries and a Dutchdictionary with 120'000 entries.
In thesedictionaries separable verbs are listed with afeature conveying the information that theybelong to the class of separable verbs and abracket ing structure showing thedecomposition into a prefix and a base, e.g.(auf)(h6ren).
Celex dictionaries are reusable,but the rule component for the interpretationof the information on separable verbs, i.e.the mechanism for going from (lb-c) to (2),remains to be developed by each NLP-system using the dictionaries.Rosetta is a machine translation systemwhich includes Dutch as one of the sourceand target languages.
Rosetta (1994:78-79)describes how separable verbs are treated.For the verb ophouden illustrated in (3),there are three lexical entries, ophouden forthe continuous forms as in (3a), and houdenand op for the discontinuous forms as in(3b-c).
When a form of houden is found in atext, it is multiply ambiguous, because it canbe a form of the simple verb houden ('hold')or of one of the separable verbs ophouden('stop'), aanhouden ('arrest'), afhouden('withhold'), etc.
The entry for houden aspart of ophouden contains the informationthat it must be combined with a particle op.At the same time, op is ambiguous between areading as preposition or particle.
In syntax,there is a rule combining the two elements ina sentence such as (3b).
It is clear that, whilethis approach may work, it is far fromelegant.
It creates ambiguity andredundancies, because ophouden writtentogether is treated in a different entry fromop + houden as a discontinuous nit.
Theseproperties make the resulting dictionariesless transparent and do not favourreusability.It should be pointed out that Celex andRosetta were not chosen because theirsolution to the problem of separable verbs isworse than others.
They are representativeexamples of currently used strategies,chosen mainly because they are relativelywell-documented.3.
The Word ManagerApproachWord Manager TM (WM) is a system formorphological dictionaries.
It includes rulesfor inflection and derivation (WM proper)and for clitics and multi-word units (PhraseManager, PM).
We will use WM here as aname for the combination of the twocomponents.
A general description of thedesign of WM, with references to variouspublications where the formalism isdiscussed in more detail, can be found in tenHacken & Domenig (1996).The German WM dictionary consists of acomprehensive set of inflectional and wordformation rules describing the full range ofmorphological processes in German.
In thelast two years we have specified more than100'000 database entries by classification oflexemes in terms of inflection rules (formorphologically simple entries) and by theapplication of word formation rules (formorphologically complex entries).
Inaddition, the PM module contains a set ofrules for clitics and multi-word units whichcovers German periphrastic inflectionpatterns and separable verbs.The rule types invoked in the treatment ofseparable verbs in WM include InflectionRules (IRules), Word Formation Rules(WFRules), Periphrastic Inf lect ion(PIRules), and Clitic Rules (CRules).
Wewill describe ach of them in turn.3.1.
InflectionIn inflection, aufhfJren is treated as a verbwith a detachable prefix at!f The detachableprefix is defined as an underspecifiedIFormative.
This means that, in the sameway as for stems, its specification isdistributed over a class specification and a472RXRule V_Detachable-Prefixc i ta t ion - fo rms(ICat Detachable-Prefix)word- fo rms(ICat Detachable-Prefix)(ICat Detachable-Prefix)(ICat V-Stem) (ICat V-Suffix) (Mod Inf)(ICat V-Stem) (ICat V-Suffix)(ICat V-Prefix.ge) (ICat V-Stem) .
.
... (ICat V-Suffix) (Mod PaPa)Fig.
i: Inflection rule for separable verbs in WM.
The dots in the last line mark the absence of aline break in the actual code.
Feature specifications separated by tabs refer to sets of formatives inparadigmatic variation.
Each line thus generates one or more word forms.target(RIRule V_Detachable-Pref ix)  separable1 (ICat Detachable-Pref ix)2 (ICat V-Stem)Fig.
2: Target specification of the WFRule for separable verbs in WM.specification of the individual string.
Theclass is defined by the linguist in thespecification of inflection processes.
Thespecification of the string is part of thelexicographic specification, i.e.
the stringspecification is the result of the application ofthe word formation rule the lexicographerchooses for the definition of an individualentry.
In the IRules, detachable prefixes arereferred to as formatives in the formulaegenerating the word forms.
Fig.
1 gives therelevant rule of the database for otherwiseregular separable verbs, such as aufhOren.3.2.
Word FormationWord Formation Rules consist of a sourcedefinition and a target definition.
The sourcedefinition determines what (kind of)formatives are taken to form a new word.The target definition specifies how thesource formatives are combined, and whichinflection rule the new word is assigned to.Separable verbs are the result of WFRuleswhich are remarkable because of their target.The target specification is as in Fig.
2.
Thisspecification departs from the usualspecification of a target in a WFRule in tworespects.
First, instead of concatenating thesource formatives, the rule lists them,leaving concatenation to the IRule.
This isnecessary to form the past participleaufgeh6rt, where the two formatives areseparated by the prefix ge- (cf.
last line ofFig.
1).
Separable verbs are specified by thelexicographer by linking a word to aWFRule having a target specification as inFig.
2.
In the case of aufl~Oren, this is a rulefor prefixing in which "1" in Fig.
2 matchesa closed set of predefined prefixes.
TheIRules and WFRules described so far coverthe non-separated occurrences a in (1 a).The second special property of thespecification i Fig.
2 is the system keyword"separable" in the second line.
It assignsthe result of the WFRule to the predefinedclass %separab le .
This class, whosename is defined in the WM-formalism, canbe used to establish a link between the resultof word formation and the input to theperiphrastic inflection mechanism used torecognize occurrences such as in (lb).3.3.
Periphrastic InflectionThe mechanism for periphrastic nflection inWM consists of two parts.
PIClasses areused to identify the components and PIRulesto turn them into a single word form.
ThePIRule for separable verbs in German isgiven in Fig.
3.
The rule in Fig, 3 consistsof a name and a body, which in turn consistsof input and output specifications separatedby "=".
The input specifies afinite verb form(infinitive and participles are excluded by"^") and a detachable prefix.
The outputcombines them in the position of the verb,with the form prefix + verb, and with thefeatures percolated from the verb (person,473Separab le(Cat V)^(Mod In f )^(Mod Part) + %separab le  = .... (POS I) (FORM 2+i) (PERC i) (Cat V)Fig.
3:Pefip~asticInflection Rule ~rseparableverbsinWM.%separab le  + (CElement  zu) + (Cat V) (Mod Inf) (Temp Pres) .
.
.
... (CElement  zu), %separab le  + (Cat V) (Mod Inf) (Temp Pres)Fig.
4: CRule for the infinitive of separable verbs innumber, etc.).
This yields (2a) as a step inthe analysis of (lb).The possibilities for specifying the relativeposition of the two elements to be combinedare the same as the possibilities for multi-word units in general.
In the PIClass forGerman it is specified that the finite verbalways precedes the particle when the twoare separated.
In Dutch this is not the case,as illustrated by (3c), so that a differentspecification is required.3.4.
Clitic RulesThe clitic rule mechanism is used to analyseaufzuh6ren in (lc) and produce zu aufh6renas in (2b).
The CRule used is given in Fig.4.
Again input and output are separated by"=".
The input consists of the concatenationof three elements: a detachable prefix,infinitival zu, and an infinitive.
Graphicconcatenation is indicated by "+".
TheCElement zu is defined elsewhere as a formof the infinitival z u, rather than thehomonymous preposition, in order not tolose information.
The output consists of twowords, as indicated by the comma, thesecond of which concatenates the prefix andthe verb.3.5.
Recognition andGenerationIn recognition, the input is the largestdomain over which components of multi-word units (MWUs) can be spread.
Inpractice, this coincides with the sentence.Since WM does not contain a parser, largerchunks of input will result in spuriousrecognition of potential MWUs.
Let usassume as an example that the sentences in(1) are given as input.WM.The first component o act is the cliticscomponent.
It leaves everything unchangedexcept (lc), which is replaced by (2b):aufzuh6ren => zu at!f176ren.
Then the rulesof WM proper are activated.
They replaceeach word form by a set of analyses in termsof a string and feature set.
In (1 a), att.flliJrt isanalysed as third person singular or secondperson plural of the present tense ofaufhOren, in (lb) hOrt and attfare analysedseparately, and in (Ic) aufiti~ren, which wasgiven the feature infinitive by the CRule inFig.
4, only as infinitive, not as any of thehomonymous forms in the paradigm.
Thenext step is periphrastic nflection.
It appliesto (la) and (lc) vacuously, but combineshOrt and auf in (lb), producing the featuredescription corresponding to (2b): hOrt auf=> aufhOrt.
Finally, the idiom recognitioncomponent (not treated here) appliesvacuously.A general remark on recognition is in orderhere.
The rule components of PM, i.e.clitics, periphrastic inflection and idiomrecognition add their results to the set ofintermediate r presentations available at therelevant point.
Thus, after the cliticcomponent, attfz.uhiSren continues to existalongside zu auJh6ren in the analysis of (lc).Since the former cannot be analysed by WMproper, it is discarded.
Likewise, hgrt willsurvive in (lb) after periphrastic inflectionand indeed as part of the final result.
This isnecessary in examples uch as (4):(4) Der Hund h6rt auf den Namen Wurzel.
('The dog answers to the name \[of\]Wurzel')Since rules in WM are not inherentlydirectional, it is also possible to generate allforms of a lexeme such as aufhOren in theway they may occur in a text.
The client474application required for this task can alsoinclude codes indicating places in the stringwhere other material may intervene, becausethis information is available in the relevantPIClass of the database.4.
Conc lus ionSeparable verbs in German and Dutchconstitute a problem in NLP because they arelexemes whose recognition is not simply amatter of dictionary lookup.
Therefore, areusable lexical database such as Celex doesnot offer a comprehensive solution to theproblem.
On the other hand, treating them asa problem of syntactic recognition, asimplemented in, for instance, Rosetta, failsto account for the lexeme character ofseparable verbs.
As a consequence, spuriousambiguities and redundancies are created.Ambiguities arise between a simple verbsuch as hSren ('hear') and the same formfunctioning as part of a separable verb suchas auflzOren.
Redundancies merge betweenthe two different entries for aufhOren, onefor the continuous and one for thediscontinuous occurrences.In Word Manager, the recognition ofseparable verbs is entirely within thereusable lexical domain.
A client applicationcan start from an input which resembles (2)rather than (lb-c).
An indication of the typeof input is given in (5) and (6).
For (lb),(5a) and (5b) are offered as alternatives.
For(lc), (6) is offered as the only analysis(modulo syncretism of versucht).
(5) a. claudia (Cat Noun)aufh6ren (Cat Verb)(Tense Pres)(Pers Third)(Num SG)jetzt (Cat Adv)b. claudia (Cat Noun)ht~ren (Cat Verb)(Tense Pres)(Pers Third)(Num SG)jetzt (Cat Adv)auf (Cat Prep)(6) daniel (Cat Noun)versuchen (Cat Verb)(Tense Pres)(Pers Third)(Num SG)zu (Cat Inf-marker)aufh6ren (Cat Verb)(Mode Inf)The task of the client application in therecognition of separable verbs in (1) isreduced to the choice of (5a) rather than(5b).Finally, two points deserve to beemphasized.
First, the entire WM-formalismfor separable verbs has been implemented asdescribed here.
The rules for German havebeen formulated and a large dictionary forGerman (100'000 entries) includingseparable verbs is available.
Moreover, theonly provision in the WM-formalismspecifically geared towards the treatment ofseparable verbs is the keyword separable inWFRules (cf.
Fig.
2) and the correspondingclass name %separable.
Otherwise the entireformalism used for separable verbs isavailable as a consequence of generalrequirements of morphology and multi-wordunits.Referencesten Hacken, Pius & Domenig, Marc (1996),'Reusable Dictionaries for NLP: TheWord Manager Approach', Lexicology2: 232-255.Rosetta, M.T.
(1994), CompositionalTranslation, Kluwer Academic,Dordrecht.Tschichold, Cornelia (forthcoming), EnglishMulti-Word Units in a Lexicon forNatural Language Processing, Ph.D.dissertation, Universitfit Basel (Dec.1996), to appear at Olms Verlag,Hildesheim.Word Manager:http://www.unibas.ch/Lllab/projects/wordmanager/wordmanager.htmlFig.
5: URL for Word Manager.475
