Anchoring Floating Quantifiersin Japanese-to-English Machine TranslationFranc is  Bond, t  Dan ie la  Kurz*  and  Satosh i  Sh i ra i  tt NTT Communication Science Laboratories2-4 Hikari-dai, Seika-cho, Soraku-gun, Kyoto, Japan, 619-0237{bond, sh i ra i}?cs lab ,  kec l .
n i t .
co. jpDepartment of Computational Linguistics, University of the SaarlandPostfach 1150, D-66041 Saarbrficken, Germanykurz?coli, uni-sb, deAbst ractIn this paper we present an algorithm to an-chor floating quantifiers in Japanese, a languagein which quantificational nouns and numeral-classifier combinations can appear separatedfrom the noun phrase they quantify.
The algo-rithm differentiates degree and event modifiersfrom nouns that quantify noun phrases.
It thenfinds a suitable anchor for such floating quan-tifiers.
To do this, the algorithm considers thepart of speech of the quantifier and the target,the semantic relation between them, the casemarker of the antecedent and the meaning of theverb that governs the two constituents.
The al-gorithm has been implemented and tested in arule-based Japanese-to-English machine trans-lation system, with an accuracy of 76% and arecall of 97%.1 I n t roduct ionOne interesting phenomenon i Japanese is thefact that quantifiers can appear in two main po-sitions, as pre-modifier in a noun phrase (1), or'floating' as adjuncts to the verb phrase, typi-cally in pre-verbal position (2).
1,2(1) watashi-wa 3-ko-no kgki-wo tabetaI-TOP 3-CL-ADN cake-ACC ateI ate three cakes(2) watashi-wa kgki-wo 3-ko tabetaI-TOP cake-ACC 3-CL ateI ate three cakesQuantifier 'float' of numeral-classifier combi-nations is widely discussed in the linguistic liter-1Quantifiers are shown in bo ld ,  the noun phrasesthey quantify are underlined.2This phenomenon exists in other languages, such asKorean.
We will, however, restrict our discussion toJapanese in this paper.ature.
3 Much of the discussion focuses on iden-tifying the conditions under which a quantifiercan appear in the adjunct position.
The expla-nations range from configurational (Inoue, 1983;Miyagawa, 1989) to discourse based (Downing,1996; Alam, 1997), we shall discuss these fur-ther below.
There has been almost no discus-sion of other floating quantifiers, such as quan-tificational nouns.We call the process of identifying the nounphrase being quantified by a floating quanti-fier 'anchoring' the quantifier.
The necessityof anchoring floating quantifiers for many nat-ural language processing tasks is widely recog-nized (Asahioka et al, 1990; Bond et al, 1996),and is important not only for machine transla-tion but for the interpretation of Japanese ingeneral.
However, although there are severalNLP systems that incorporate some solution tothe problem of floating quantifiers, to the bestof our knowledge, no algorithm for anchoringfloating quantifiers has been given.
We proposesuch an algorithm in this paper.
The algorithmuses information about case-marking, sentencestructure, part-of-speech, noun and verb mean-ing.
The algorithm has been implemented andtested within the Japanese-to-English machinetranslation system ALT- J /E  (Ikehara et al,1991).The next section describes the phenomenonof quantifier float in more detail.
We then pro-pose our algorithm to identify and anchor float-ing quantifiers in Section 3.
The results of im-plementing the algorithm in ALT- J /E  are dis-3The name 'float' comes from early transformationalaccounts, where the quantifier was said to 'float' out ofthe noun phrase.
Although this analysis has largely beenabandoned, and we disagree with it, we shall continuewith accepted practice and call a quantifier in the ad-junct position a floating quantifier.152cussed in Section 4 and some remaining prob-lems identified.
The conclusion summarises theimplementation f the algorithm and highlightssome of its strengths.2 Quant i f ie r  f loat  in JapaneseFirst we will give a definition of quantifiers.
Se-mantically, quantifiers are elements that serveto quantify, or enumerate, some target.
The tar-get can be an entity, in which case the numberof objects is quantified, or an action, in whichcase the number of events (i.e.
iterations of theaction) are quantified.
The quantification canbe by a cardinal number, or by a more vagueexpression, like several or many.In Japanese, quantifiers (Q) axe mainly re-alised in two ways: numeral-classifier combi-nations (XC) and quantificational nouns (N).Note that these nouns are often treated as ad-verbs, as they typically function as adjunctsthat modify verbs, a function prototypically car-ried out by adverbs.
They can however headnoun phrases, and take some case-markers, owe classify them as nouns.Numeral classifiers form a closed class, al-though a large one.
Japanese and Korean bothhave two or three hundred numeral classifiers(not counting units), although typically indi-vidual speakers use far less, between 30 and 80(Downing, 1995, 346).Syntactically, numeral classifiers are a sub-class of nouns.
The main property distinguish-ing them from prototypical nouns is that theycannot stand alone.
Typically they postfixto numerals, forming a quantifier phrase, al-though they can also combine with the quan-tificational prefix s~ "some" or the interrogativenani "what":(3) 2-hiki "2 animals" (Numeral)(4) s~-hiki "some animals" (Quantifier)(5) nan-biki "how many animals" (Inter-rogative)Semantically, classifiers both classify andquantify the referent of the noun phrase theycollocate with.Quantificational nouns, such as takusan"much/many", subete "all" and ichibu "some",only quantify their targets, there is no classifi-cation involved.Numeral classifier combinations appear inseven major patterns of use (following Asahiokaet al (1990)) as shown below (T refers tothe quantified target noun phrase, m is a case-marker):Type Form XC Npre-nominal Q-no T-m + +appositive TQ-m + -floating T-m Q + +Q T-mpartitive T-no Q-m + +attributive QT-m + -anaphoric T-m ?
-predicative T-wa Q-da ?
-Table 1: Types of quantifier constructionsNoun quantifiers cannot appear in the ap-positive, attributive, anaphoric and predicativecomplement patterns.In the pre-nominal construction the relationbetween the target noun phrase and quantifieris explicit.
For numeral-classifier combinationsthe quantification can be of the object denotedby the noun phrase itself as in (6); or of a sub-part of it as in (7) (see Bond and Paik (1997) fora fuller discussion).
For nouns, only the objectdenoted by the noun itself can be quantified.
(6) 3-ts~-no tegami3-CL-ADN letter3 letters(7) 3-rnai-no tegami3-CL-ADN lettera 3 page letterIn the partitive construction the quantifier re-stricts a subset of a known amount: e.g., tegami-no 3-ts~ "three of the letters".
This is a verydifferent construal to the pre-nominal construc-tion.
Only rational quantificational nouns canappear in the partitive construction.The floating construction, on the other hand,has the same quantificational meaning as thepre-nominal.
Two studies indicate that thereare pragmatic differences (Downing, 1996; Kim,1995).
Pre-nominal constructions typically areused to introduce important referents, with non-existential predicates, while floating construc-tions typically introduce new number informa-tion.
In addition floating constructions are used153when the nominal has other modifiers, and aremore common in spoken text.We will restrict he following discussion to thedifference between the pre-nominal nd floatinguses .2.1 Rest r i c t ions  on quant i f ie r  f loatThere have been many attempts to describe thesituations under which the floating constructionis possible, almost all of which only considernumeral-classifier constructions.The earliest generative approaches suggestedthat the target in the floating constructionmust be either subject or object.
Inoue (1983)pointed out that quasi-objects, noun phrasesmarked with the accusative case-marker butfailing other tests for objecthood, could also betargets.Miyagawa (1989) gives a comprehensive con-figurational explanation, where the target andquantifier must mutually c-command each other(that is, neither the target nor the quantifierdominates the other, and the first branchingnode that dominates either one, dominates theother).
The restriction to nominative andaccusative targets is explained by proposing adifference in structure.
Verb arguments ub-categorized for in the lexicon are noun phrases,where the case-marker is a clitic and thus can bec-commanded, whereas adjuncts are headed bytheir markers, to form post-positional phraseswhich are thus not available as targets.The c-command relation is applied to boththe noun phrases themselves and traces.
Quan-tifiers can be scrambled (moved from their baseposition after their target) leaving a trace if thetarget is an affected Theme NP, and the targetand quantifier are governed by the verb thatassigns this thematic role.
Thus quantifiers as-sociated with affected themes can move withinthe sentence.
Affected themes are things thataxe "changed, created, converted, extinguished,consumed, destroyed or gotten-rid of".Miyagawa (1989, 57) proposes a syntactic testfor affectiveness: affected themes can occure inthe intransitive resultative construction -te-aru.Alam (1997) looks at the problem from a dif-ferent angle, and proposes that only quantifierswhich are interpreted "distributively or as aquantified event" can float, as they take widescope beyond the NP.
A quantified noun phrasewill also quantify the event if the noun phrasemeasures-out the event, where "direct internalarguments undergoing change in the event de-scribed by the verb measure out the event"a very similar description to that of affectedtheme.
However, Jackendoff (1996) has shownthat a wide variety of arguments can measureout processes, not just subjects and objects, butalso the complements of prepositional phrases.Which case-roles measure out the process canbe pragmatically determined as well as lexicallystipulated, so it is not a simple matter to deter-mine which arguments are relevent.The excellent distributional nalysis of Down-ing (1996) shows that actual cases of float-ing tend to be absolut ive,  that is quantifierslargely float from intransitive subjects (67%) ordirect objects of transitive verbs (24%) ratherthan from transitive subjects (4%) or indirectobjects (1%).On the question of why quantifiers appearoutside of the noun phrases they quantify, therehave been two explanations: Discourse new in-formation floats to the pre-verb focus position(Downing, 1996; Kim, 1995), quantifiers floatfrom noun phrases that 'measure out' an event(Alam, 1997).We speculate that there may be a perfor-mance based reason.
Hawkins (1994) has shownthat many phenomena claimed to be discourserelated are in fact largely due to performance.However we have not yet compiled sufficient em-pirical evidence to show this conclusively.3 An  a lgor i thm to  ident i fy  andanchor  f loa t ing  quant i f ie rsThe proposed algorithm is outlined in Figure 1.In our implementation it is appplied to each ofone or more candidate outputs of a Japanesedependency parser as part of the semantic rank-ing.3.1 Ident i fy  potent ia l  f loat ingquant i f iersThe first step is to identify potential floatingquantifiers.Every adjunct case element headed by a nounis checked.
All numeral classifier combinationsare potential candidates.An adjunct must must meet two conditions tobe considered a floating quantificational nouns,one semantic and one syntactic.
The semanticcriterion is that one of the noun's senses must be154For each un i t  sentenceIdentify potential floatingquan~ifiers (QP)\[Numeral-classifieror Quantificational Noun\]Identify potential anchors (NP)\[nominative or accusative\]Discard bad combinations\[semantic anomalies,degree modifiers, event modifiers\]Rank remaining combinationsPrefer accusativePrefer anchor on the leftPrefer closestAnchor the best candidate pair(s)Figure 1: Algorithm to anchor floating quanti-tierssubsumed by quanta,  few/some, a l l -par t .The syntactic criterion is that the part ofspeech subcategory must be one of degree orquant i f ie r  adverbial.
4 We use the Goi-Taikei(Ikehara et al, 1997) to test for the senses andMiyazaki et al (1995) for the syntactic lassifi-cation.3.2 Ident i fy  potent ia l  anchorsAll noun phrases that matched a case-slotmarked with -ga (nominative) or -o (accusative)are accepted as potential anchors.
This is thetraditional criterion given for potential anchors.Note even if the surface marker is different, forexample when the case-marker is overwritten bya focus-marker such as -wa "topic", the 'canon-ical' case-marker will be found by our parser.Noun phrases marked with -hi (dative), havebeen shown to be permissible candidates, butwe do not allow them.
Such sentences are, how-ever, rare outside linguistics papers.
We foundno such candidates in the sentences we exam-ined, and Downing (1996, 239) found only onein ninety six examples.
When we tried allow-ing dative noun phrases, it significantly reducedthe performance of our algorithm: every dativenoun phrase selected was wrong.
If we coulddetermine which noun phrases measure-out theaction, then they should also be considered as4This part of speech category actually includes bothtrue adverbs and adverb-like nouns.candidates, but we have no way to identify themat present.3.3 D iscard  bad  combinat ionsSome combinations of anchor and quantifier canbe ruled out.
We have identified three cases:semantically anomalous cases; sentences wherethe quantifier modifies the verb as a degreemodifier; and sentences where the quantifiermodifies the verb as a frequency modifier.3.3.1 Semant ica l ly  anomalous  casesS ingu lar  noun phrases  In Japanese, pro-nouns and names are typically marked with acollectiviser (such as -tachi) if there are multi-ple referents (see e.g.
Martin (1988, 143-154)).A pronoun or name not so marked characteris-tically has a singular interpretation.
For namesthis can be overridden by a numeral-classifiercombination (8), although it is rare, but not byan quantificational noun (9).
(8) Matsuo-san-ga 3-n{n shabettaMatsuo-HON-NOM 3-CL spoke3 Matsuos spoke(9) Matsuo-san-ga takusan shabettaMatsuo-HON-NOM many spokeMatsuo spoke a lotIn all the texts we examined, we found no ex-amples of names modified by floating numeral-classifier combinations.
We therefore block allpronouns and names not modified by a collec-tiviser from serving as anchors to floating quan-tifiers.In Japanese, there is not a clear division be-tween pronouns and common nouns, particu-larly kin-terms uch as ojisan "grandfather/oldman".
Pronouns can be modified in the sameway as common nouns, and kin-terms are oftenused to refer to non kin.
Pronouns modified byquantifiers need to be translated by more gen-eral terms as in (10).
(10) kanojo-tachi-ga 3-nin kitashe-COL-NOM 3-CL came?
3 she cameThe 3 girls cameClassi f ier  semant ic  res t r i c t ions  For nu-meral classifiers, the selectional restrictions ofthe classifier can be used to disallow certain155combinations.
For example,-kai "event" canonly be used to modify event-nouns such asshokuji "meal" or fishin "earthquake".
How-ever, the semantics are very complicated, andthere is a great deal of variation, as a classifiercan select not just for the object denoted by itstarget but also a sub-part of it.
In addition,classifiers can be used to select meanings figu-ratively, coercing a new interpretation of theirhead.
Bond and Paik (1997) suggest a way ofdealing with this in the generative l xical frame-work of Pustejovsky (1995) but it requires moreinformation about the conceptual structure ofnoun phrases than is currently available.For the time being, we use a simple tableof forbidden combinations.
For example pointo"point" will not be used to quantify nouns de-noting agent, place or abstract noun.3.3.2 Degree  modificationNoun quantifiers can be used as degree modi-fiers as well as quantifying some referent.
If thepredicate is used to state a property of the po-tential anchor, then a noun quantifier will char-acteristically be a degree modifier.We use the verbal semantic attributes givenin the Goi-Taikei (Ikehara et al, 1997) totest for this relationship.
Anchoring willbe blocked either if the potential anchor isnominative and the verbal semantic attributeis one of attr ibute transfer, existence,attr ibute or result or if the anchor is ac-cusative and the verbal semantic attribute isphysical /attr ibute transfer.Sentence (ii) shows this constraint in action:(11) kodomo-ga sukoshi samuichild-NOM a little cold* A few children are coldThe child is a little cold3.3.3 Event modi f icat ionThe final case we need to consider is where thenoun quantifier can quantify the event or theaffected theme of the event, such as (12).
InJapanese, either reading is possible when thequantifier is in pre-verbal position.
Anchor-ing the quantifier is equivalent to choosing thetheme reading.
(12) kare-wa k~ki-wo takusan tabetahe-TOP cake-NOM much ateHe ate cake a lotHe ate a lot of cake(event)(theme)Examining our corpus showed the themereading to be the default.
Of course, if theevent is modified elsewhere, for example by atemporal modifier, then different readings arepossible.
The system in which our implementa-tion was tested lacks a system for event quan-tification, so we were not able to implementany constraint for this phenomenon.
We there-fore implemented the theme reading as our de-fault.
Note that, for stative verbs with per-manent readings uch as shiru "know", there isalmost no difference between the two readings(13).
(13) watashi-wa ratengo-wo sukoshiI-TOP Latin-ACC a littleshitte-iruknowI know a little LatinI know Latin a little3.4 Rank and select candidatesIf there are more than two combinations, thefollowing heuristics are used to choose which oneor ones to choose.P re fer  accusative: A combination with anaccusative anchor gets two points: This isto allow for the absolutive bias.P re fer  left anchor:  If the anchor is to the leftof the quantifier score it with one point:Quantifiers tend to float to the right of theiranchors.P re fer  closest: Subtract one for each inter-vening quantifier: Closer targets are bet-ter.Finally select he highest scoring combinationand eliminate any combinations that include thechosen quantifier and anchor.
If there is still acombination left (e.g.
there were two quantifiersand two targets) then select it as well.These heuristics rule out crossing combina-tions in the rare instances of two quantifiers andtwo candidates.156FloatingQuantifiers:Anchored Not anchoredGood Bad Good BadNouns (N): 12 2 7 0Num-Cls (XC): 16 7 11 1Total: 28 9 18 1Table 2: Test results3.5 AnchoringOnce the best combinations are chosen, thequantifier can be anchored to its target.
Weconsider the best way to represent this wouldbe by showing the semantic relation in a sepa-rate level from the syntax, in a similar way tothe architecture outlined by Jackendoff (1997).Our implementation is in a machine transla-tion system and we simply rewrite the sentenceso that the floating quantifier becomes an pre-nominal modifier of its target, marked with theadnominal case-marker -no.
The resulting mod-ifier is labeled as 'anchored', to allow specialprocessing during the transfer phase.4 Resu l ts  and  D iscuss ionThe algorithm was tested on a 3700 sentencemachine translation test set of Japanese sen-tences with English translations, produced bya professional human translator.
A descriptionof the test set and its design is given in Ikeharaet al (1994).Overall, 56 possible combinations were foundand 37 anchored in 3700 sentences: Table 2.Of these, 9 were anchored that should nothave been, and 1 was not anchored thatshould have been.
The accuracy (correctly an-chored/anchored) was 76% (28/37), and therecall (correctly anchored/should be anchored)was 97% (28/29).The major source of errors was from parsingerrors in the system as a whole.
All of the badlyanchored numeral-classifiers combinations werecaused by this.
In this case, the algorithm hasnot degraded the system performance, it wouldhave been a bad result anyway.There were three problems with the algorithmitself.
In one case an anaphoric quantifier wasmistaken as a floating quantifier, in another theverbal semantic attribute check for degree mod-ification gave a bad result.
Finally there wasone case where the default blocking for seman-tic anomalies blocked a good combination.T rans la t ion  of  f loat ing quant i f iersNote that anchoring a floating quantifier is onlythe first step toward translating it.
Special han-dling is sometimes needed to translate the an-chored quantifiers.For example, Japanese has some universalpronouns that can stand alone as full nounphrases (14) or act as floating quantifiers (15):e.g., minna "everyone", zen'in "all members".When they are anchored, the information aboutthe denotation of the head carried by the pro-noun is redundant, and should not be trans-lated.
A special rule is required for this.
(14) minna-ga soroueveryone-NOM gatherAll members gather.
(15) membd-ga minna  soroumembers-NOM everyone gatherAll the members gather.
*Everyone's members gather.Fur ther  workThe proposed algorithm forms a solid base forextensions in various ways.1.
Combine it with a fuller system of eventsemantics.2.
Make the treatment of classifier-target se-mantics more detailed, so that inbuilt se-mantic restrictions can be used instead ofa table of forbidden combinations.3.
Use the results of the algorithm to helpchoose between candidate parses and in-tegrate it with the resolution of zero pro-nouns .4.
Test the algorithm on other languages, forexample Korean.5 Conc lus ionWe have presented an algorithm to anchor float-ing quantifiers in Japanese.
The algorithm pro-ceeds as follows.
First identify potential float-ing quantifiers: either numeral classifier combi-nations or quantificational nouns.
Then iden-tify potential anchors: all accusative or nom-inative noun phrases.
Inappropriate combina-tions are deleted, either because of a semantic157mismatch between the target and quantifier, orbecause the quantifier is interpreted asa degreeor event modifier.
Finally, possible combina-tions are ranked, with the accusative candidatebeing the best choice, then the closest and left-most.
The algorithm is robust and uses the fullpower of currently available detailed semanticdictionaries.AcknowledgmentsThe authors thank Tim Baldwin, Yukie Kurib-ayashi, Kyonghee Paik and the members of theNTT Machine Translation Research Group fortheir discussion and comments on this paperand earlier versions.
The research was carriedout while Daniela Kurz visited the NTT Com-munication Science Laboratories.
Francis Bondis currently also enrolled part time as a doc-toral candidate at the University of Queens-land's Center for Language Teaching & Re-search.ReferencesYukiko Sasaki Alam.
1997.
Numeral classifiersas adverbs of quantification.
In Ho-Min Sohnand John Haig, editors, Japanese/KoreanLinguistics, volume 6, pages 381-397.
CSLI.Yoshimi Asahioka, Hideki Hirakawa, and Shin-ya Amano.
1990.
Semantic lassification andan analyzing system of Japanese numeri-cal expressions.
IPSJ SIG Notes 90-NL-78,90(64):129-136, July.
(in Japanese).Francis Bond and Kyonghee Paik.
1997.
Clas-sifying correspondence in Japanese and Ko-rean.
In 3rd Pacific Association for Compu-tational Linguistics Conference: PA CLING-97, pages 58-67.
Meisei University, Tokyo,Japan.Francis Bond, Kentaro Ogura, and SatoruIkehara.
1996.
Classifiers in Japanese-to-English machine translation.
In 16th Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguis-tics: COLING-96, pages 125-130, Copen-hagen, August.
(cmp-lg/9608014).Pamela Downing and Michael Noonan, editors.1995.
Word Order in Discourse, volume 30 ofTypological Studies in Language.
John Ben-jamins.Pamela Downing.
1995.
The anaphoric use ofclassifiers in Japanese.
In Downing and Noo-nan (Downing and Noonan, 1995), pages 345-375.Pamela Downing.
1996.
Numeral ClassifierSystems, the case of Japanese.
John Ben-jamins, Amsterdam.John A. Hawkins.
1994.
A performance theoryof order and constituency, volume 73 of Cam-bridge studies in linguistics.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press, Cambridge.Satoru Ikehara, Satoshi Shirai, Akio Yokoo, andHiromi Nakaiwa.
1991.
Toward an MT sys-tem without pre-editing - effects of new meth-ods in ALT-J/E--.
In Third Machine Trans-lation Summit: MT Summit III, pages 101-106, Washington DC.
(cmp-lg/9510008).Satoru Ikehara, Satoshi Shirai, and KentaroOgura.
1994.
Criteria for evaluating the lin-guistic quality of Japanese to English ma-chine translations.
Journal of Japanese So-ciety for Artificial Intelligence, 9(4):569-579.
(in Japanese).Satoru Ikehara, Masahiro Miyazaki, SatoshiShirai, Akio Yokoo, Hiromi Nakaiwa, KentaroOgura, Yoshifumi Ooyama, and ?oshihikoHayashi.
1997.
Goi-Taikei -- A JapaneseLexicon.
Iwanami Shoten, Tokyo.
5 volumes.Kazuko Inoue, editor.
1983.
Nihongo-no Ki-honkouzou (Basic Japanese Structure).
San-seido, Tokyo.
(in Japanese).Ray Jackendoff.
1996.
The proper treatmentof measuring out, telicity and perhaps evenquantification i English.
Natural Languageand Linguistic Theory, 14:305-354.Ray Jackendoff.
1997.
The Architecture of theLanguage Faculty.
MIT Press.Alan Hyun-Oak Kim.
1995.
Word order atthe noun phrase level in Japanese: quanti-fier constructions and discourse functions.
InDowning and Noonan (Downing and Noonan,1995), pages 199-246.Samuel E. Martin.
1988.
A Reference Grammarof Japanese.
Tuttle.Shigeru Miyagawa.
1989: Structure and CaseMarking in Japanese, volume 22 of Syntaxand Semantics.
Academic Press, Amsterdam.Masahiro Miyazaki, Satoshi Shirai, and SatoruIkehara.
1995.
A Japanese syntactic ategorysystem based on the constructive process the-ory and its use.
Journal of Natural LanguageProcessing, 2(3):3-25, July.
(in Japanese).James Pustejovsky.
1995.
The Generative Lex-icon.
MIT Press.158ZusammenfassungIn diesem Papier beschreiben wit einen Algo-rithmus zur Resolution von 'floating quantifiers'im Japanischen.
Japanisch ist eine Sprache,in der quantifizierende Adverbien oder Kombi-nationen aus Numeral + Klassifikator yon derNominalphrase, fiir die sie quantifizieren ge-trennt werden kSnnen, d.h. sie miissen nichtin unmittelbarer linearer Abfolge stehen.Der Algorithmus unterscheidet Grad- undEreignismodifi_katoren yon Adverbialen, die fiirNominalphrasen quantifizieren und resolviertden richtigen Antezedenten f'tir jeden 'floatingquantifier'.
Zur Anbindung an die richtigeNominalphrase finden die folgenden ParameterBeriicksichtigung: Wortart der Quantifikatorsund des Antezedenten, die semantische R lationzwischen diesen beiden, die Kasusmaxkierungendes Antezedenten und die Semantik des Verbs,das sowohl den Quantifikator als auch dessenAntezedenten regiert.Der Algorithmus wurde implementiert undin einem regel-basierten Japanisch/EnglischemU'bersetzungssystem evaluiert.
:_-5, 7 6 %~0~,  9 7 %?
)~A~7~b-~}-~ -~_v_  -7-~z}~, -~=q-~,~ &-~-~76%~ ~-~4 97%4 ~@~-  ~r4 .159
