A Freely Available Morphological Analyzer, Disambiguatorand Context Sensitive Lemmatizer for GermanWolfgang LeziusUniversity of PaderbomCognitive PsychologyD-33098 Paderbornlezius@psycho.uni-paderbom.deReinhard RappUniversity of MainzFaculty of Applied LinguisticsD-76711 Germersheimrapp@usun 1.fask.uni-mainz.deManfred WettlerUniversity of PaderbomCognitive PsychologyD-33098 Paderbornwettler@psycho.uni-paderbom.deAbstractIn this paper we present Morphy, an inte-grated tool for German morphology, part-of-speech tagging and context-sensitive lem-matization.
Its large lexicon of more than320,000 word forms plus its ability to pro-cess German compound nouns guarantee awide morphological coverage.
Syntacticambiguities can be resolved with a standardstatistical part-of-speech tagger.
By usingthe output of the tagger, the lemmatizer candetermine the correct root even for ambi-guous word forms.
The complete package isfreely available and can be downloadedfrom the World Wide Web.IntroductionMorphological analysis is the basis for manyNLP applications, including syntax parsing,machine translation and automatic indexing.However, most morphology systems are com-ponents of commercial products.
Often, as forexample in machine translation, these systemsare presented as black boxes, with the morpho-logical analysis only used internally.
This makesthem unsuitable for research purposes.
To ourknowledge, the only wide coverage morpho-logical lexicon readily available is for the Eng-lish language (Karp, Schabes, et al, 1992).There have been attempts to provide free mor-phological analyzers to the research communityfor other languages, for example in theMULTEXT project (Armstrong, Russell, et al,1995), which developed linguistic tools for sixEuropean languages.
However, the lexiconsprovided are rather small for most language~.
Inthe case of German, we hope to significantlyimprove this situation with the development of anew version of our morphological analyzerMorphy.In addition to the morphological analyzer,Morphy includes a statistical part-of-speech tag-ger and a context-sensitive lemmatizer.
It can bedownloaded from our web site as a completepackage including documentation and lexicon(http://www-psycho.uni-paderborn.de/lezius/).The lexicon comprises 324,000 word formsbased on 50,500 stems.
Its completeness hasbeen checked using Wahrig Deutsches WOrter-buch, a standard ictionary of German (Wahrig,1997).
Since Morphy is intended not only forlinguists, but also for second language learnersof German, the current version has been imple-mented with Delphi for a standard Windows 95or Windows NT platform and great effort hasbeen put in making it as user friendly as possi-ble.
For UNIX users, an export facility is pro-vided which allows generating a lexicon of fullforms together with their morphological de-scriptions in text format.1 The Morphology SystemSince German is a highly inflectional language,the morphological lgorithms used in Morphyare rather complex and can not be described herein detail (see Lezius, 1996).
In essence, Morphyis a computer implementation f the morpho-logical system described in the Duden grammar(Drosdowsky, 1984).An overview on other German morphologysystems, namely GERTWOL, LA-Morph,Morph, Morphix, Morphy, MPRO, PC-Kimmo743and Plain, is given in the documentation for theMorpholympics (Hausser, 1996).
The Morpho-lympics were an attempt to compare and evalu-ate morphology systems in a standardized com-petition.
Since then, many of the systems havebeen further developed.
The version of Morphyas described here is a new release.
Improve-ments over the old version include an integratedpart-of-speech tagger, a context-sensitive lem-matizer, a 2.5 times larger lexicon and moreuser-friendliness through an interactive Win-dows-environment.The following subsections describe the threesubmodules of the morphological analyzer.These are the lexical system, the generationmodule and the analysis module.1.1 Lexical SystemThe lexicon of Morphy is very compact as itonly stores the base form for each word togetherwith its inflection class.
Therefore, the completemorphological information for 324,000 wordforms takes less than 2 Megabytes of disk space.In comparison, the text representation of thesame lexicon, which can be generated via Mor-phy's export facility, requires 125 MB when fullmorphological descriptions are given.Since the lexical system has been specificallydesigned to allow a user-friendly extension ofthe lexicon, new words can be added easily.
Toour knowledge, Morphy is the only morphologysystem for German whose lexicon can be ex-panded by users who have no specialist know-ledge.
When entering a new word, the user isasked the minimal number of questions neces-sary to infer the grammatical features of the newword and which any native speaker of Germanshould be able to answer.1.2 GenerationStarting from the root form of a word and itsinflection type as stored in the lexicon, the gen-eration system produces all inflected forms.Morphy's generation algorithms were designedwith the aim of producing 100% correct output.Among other morphological characteristics, thealgorithms consider vowel mutation (Haus -H/iuser), shift between Band ss (FaB - Fasser), e-omission (segeln - segle), infixation of infinitivemarkers (weggehen - wegzugehen), as well aspre- and infixation of markers of participles(gehen - g.egangen; weggehen - wegg.egangen).1.3 AnalysisFor each word form of a text, the analysis sys-tem determines its root, part of speech, and - ifappropriate - its gender, case, number, person,tense, and comparative degree.
It also segmentscompound nouns using a longest-matching rulewhich works from right to left and takes linkingletters into account.
To compound Germannouns is not trivial: it can involve base formsand/or inflected forms (e.g.
Haus-meister butH~iuser-meer); in some cases the compoundingis morphologically ambiguous (e.g.
Stau-beckenmeans water reservoir, but Staub-ecken meansdust corners); and the linking letters e and s arenot always determined phonologically, but insome cases simply occur by convention (e.g.Schwein-e-bauch but Schwein-s-blase andSchwein-kram).Since the analysis system treats each wordseparately, ambiguities can not be resolved atthis stage.
For ambiguous word forms, all pos-sible lemmata nd their morphological descrip-tions are given (see Table 1 for the exampleWinde).
If a word form can not be recognized,its part of speech is predicted by a guesser whichmakes use of statistical data derived from Ger-man suffix frequencies (Rapp, 1996).morphological description lemmaSUB NOM SIN FEM WindeSUB GEN SIN FEM WindeSUB DAT SIN FEM WindeSUB AKK SIN FEM WindeSUB DAT SIN MAS WindSUB NOM PLU MAS WindSUB GEN PLU MAS WindSUB AKK PLU MAS WindVER SIN IPE PRA windenVER SIN 1PE K J1 windenVER SIN 3PE KJI windenVER SIN IMP windenTable 1: Morphological nalysis for Winde.Morphy's algorithm for analysis is motivatedby linguistic considerations.
When analyzing aword form, Morphy first builds up a list of pos-sible roots by cutting off all possible prefixesand suffixes and reverses the process of vowelmutation if umlauts are found (shifts between B744and ss are treated analogously).
Each root islooked up in the lexicon, and - if found - allpossible inflected forms are generated.
Onlythose roots which lead to an inflected formidentical to the original word form are selected(Lezius, 1996).Naturally, this procedure is much slower thana simple algorithm for the lookup of word formsin a full form lexicon.
It results in an analysisspeed of about 300 word forms per second on afast PC, compared to many thousands using afull form lexicon.
However, there are also ad-vantages: First, as mentioned above, the lexiconcan be kept very small, which is an importantconsideration for a PC-based system intendedfor Internet-distribution.
More importantly, theprocessing of German compound nouns and theimplementation f derivation rules - althoughonly partially completed at this stage - fits betterinto this concept.
For the processing of verylarge corpora under UNIX, we have imple-mented a lookup algorithm which operates onthe Morphy-generated full form lexicon.The coverage of the current version of Mor-phy was evaluated with the same test corpus thathad been used at the Morpholympics.
This cor-pus comprises about 7.800 word forms in totaland consists of two political speeches, a frag-ment of the LIMAS-corpus, and a list of specialword forms.
The present version of Morphyrecognized 94.3%, 98.4%, 96.2%, and 88.9% ofthe word forms respectively.
The correspondingvalues for the old version of Morphy, with a 2.5times smaller lexicon, had been 89.2%, 95.9%,86.9%, and 75.8%.2 The DisambiguatorSince the morphology system only looks at iso-lated word forms, words with more than onereading can not be disambiguated.
This is doneby the disambiguator or tagger, which takescontext into account by considering the condi-tional probabilities of tag sequences.
For exam-ple, in the sentence "he opens the can" the verb-reading of can may be ruled out because a verbcan not follow an article.After the success of statistical part-of-speechtaggers for English, there have been quite a fewattempts to apply the same methods to German.Lezius, Rapp & Wettler (1996) give an overviewon some German tagging projects.
Although weconsidered a number of algorithms, we decidedto use the trigram algorithm described byChurch (1988) for tagging.
It is simple, fast,robust, and - among the statistical taggers - stillmore or less unsurpassed in terms of accuracy.Conceptually, the Church-algorithm works asfollows: For each sentence of a text, it generatesall possible assignments of part-of-speech tagsto words.
It then selects that assignment whichoptimizes the product of the lexical and contex-tual probabilities.
The lexical probability forword N is the probability of observing part ofspeech X given the (possibly ambiguous) wordN.
The contextual probability for tag Z is theprobability of observing part of speech Z giventhe preceding two parts of speech X and Y.
It isestimated by dividing the trigram frequencyXYZ by the bigram frequency XY.
In practice,computational limitations do not allow the enu-meration of all possible assignments for longsentences, and smoothing is required for infre-quent events.
This is described in more detail inthe original publication (Church, 1988).Although more sophisticated algorithms forunsupervised learning - which can be trained onplain text instead on manually tagged corpora -are well established (see e.g.
Merialdo, 1994),we decided not to use them.
The main reason isthat with large tag sets, the sparse-data-problemcan become so severe that unsupervised trainingeasily ends up in local minima, which can leadto poor results without any indication to the user.More recently, in contrast to the statistical tag-gers, rule-based tagging algorithms have beensuggested which were shown to reduce the errorrate significantly (Samuelsson & Voutilainen,1997).
We consider this a promising approachand have started to develop such a system forGerman with the intention of later inclusion intoMorphy.The tag set of Morphy's tagger is based on thefeature system of the morphological analyzer.However, some features were discarded for tag-ging.
For example, the tense of verbs is not con-sidered.
This results in a set of about 1000 dif-ferent tags.
A fragment of 20,000 words fromthe Frankfurter Rundschau Corpus, which wehave been collecting since 1992, was taggedwith this tag set by manually selecting the cor-rect choice from the set of possibilities generated745by the morphological nalyzer.
In the followingwe refer to this corpus as the training corpus.
Ofall possible tags, only 456 actually occurred inthe training corpus.
The average ambiguity ratewas 5.4 tags per word form.The performance of our tagger was evaluatedby running it on a 5000-word test sample of theFrankfurter Rundschau-Corpus which was di-stinct from the training text.
We also tagged thetest sample manually and compared the results.84.7% of the tags were correctly tagged.
Al-though this result may seem poor at first glance,it should be noted that the large tag sets havemany fine distinctions which lead to a high errorrate.
If a tag set does not have these distinctions,the accuracy improves ignificantly.
In order toshow this, in another experiment we mapped ourlarge tag set to a smaller set of 51 tags, which iscomparable to the tag set used in the BrownCorpus (Greene & Rubin, 1971).
As a result, theaverage ambiguity rate per word decreased from5.4 to 1.6, and the accuracy improved to 95.9%,which is similar to the accuracy rates reportedfor statistical taggers with small tag sets in vari-ous other languages.
Table 2 shows a taggingexample for the large and the small tag set.WordIch PRO PER NOM SIN 1PEmeine VER 1PE SINmeine POS AKK SIN FEM ATTFrau SUB AKK FEM SINSZElarge tag set small tag setPRO PERVERPOS ATTSUBSZETable 2: Tagging example for both tag sets.3 The Lemmat izerFor lemmatization (the reduction to base form),the integrated design of Morphy turned out to beadvantageous.
In the first step, the morphology-module delivers all possible lemmata for eachword form.
Secondly, the tagger determines thegrammatical categories of the word forms.
If, forany of the lemmata, the inflected form corre-sponding to the word form in the text does notagree with this grammatical category, the re-spective lemma is discarded.
For example, in thesentence "ich meine meine Frau" ("I mean mywife"), the assignment of the two middle wordsto the verb meinen and the possessive pronounmein is not clear to the morphology system.However, since the tagger assigns the tag se-quence "pronoun verb pronoun noun" to thissentence, it can be concluded that the first oc-currence of meine must refer to the verb meinenand the second to the pronoun mein.Unfortunately, this may not always work aswell as in this example.
One reason is that theremay be semantic ambiguities which can not beresolved by syntactic onsiderations.
Another isthat the syntactic information delivered by thetagger may not be fine grained enough to resolveall syntactic ambiguities, l Do we need the finegrained distinctions of the large tag set to re-solve ambiguities, or does the rough informationfrom the small tag set suffice?
To address thesequestions, we performed an evaluation usinganother test sample from the Frankfurter Rund-schau-Corpus.We found that - according to the Morphy lexi-con- of all 9,893 word forms in the sample,9,198 (93.0%) had an unambiguous lemma.
Ofthe remaining 695 word forms, 667 had twopossible lemmata nd 28 were threefold ambi-guous (Table 3 gives some examples).
Using thelarge tag set, 616 out of the 695 ambiguous wordforms were correctly lemmatized (88.6%).
Thecorresponding fi ures for the small tag set wereslightly better: 625 out of 695 ambiguities wereresolved correctly (89.9%).
When the error-rateis related to the total number of word forms inthe text, the accuracy is 99.2% for the large and99.3% for the small tag set.The better performance when using the smalltag set is somewhat surprising since there are afew cases of ambiguities inthe test corpus whichcan only be resolved by the large tag set but notby the small tag set.
For example, since thesmall tag set does not consider a noun's case,gender, and number, it can not decide whetherFilmen is derived from der Film ("the film") orfrom das Filmen ("the filming").
On the otherhand, as shown in the previous ection, the tag-ging accuracy is much better for the small tagset, which is an advantage in lemmatization a dobviously compensates for the lack of detail.I For example the verb fuhren can be either a sub-junctive form offahren ("to drive") or a regular formoffiihren ("to lead").
Since neither the large nor thesmall tag set consider mood, this ambiguity can notbe resolved.746However, we believe that with future improve-ments in tagging accuracy lemmatization basedon the large tag set will eventually be better.Nevertheless, the current implementation f thelemmatizer gives the user the choice of selectingbetween either tag set.Begriffen Begriff, begreifenDank danken, dank (prep.
), DankGarten garen, GartenTrotz Trotz, trotzen, trotzWeise Weise, weise, weisenWunder Wunder, wundern, wundTable 3: Word forms with several lemmata.ConclusionsIn this paper, a freely available integrated toolfor German morphological analysis, part-of-speech tagging and context sensitive lemmatiza-tion was introduced.
The morphological ana-lyzer is based on the standard Duden grammarand provides wide coverage due to a lexicon of324,000 word forms and the ability to processcompound nouns at runtime.
It gives for eachword form of a text all possible lemmata ndmorphological descriptions.
The ambiguities ofthe morphological descriptions are resolved bythe tagger, which provides about 85% accuracyfor the large and 96% accuracy for the small tagset.
The lemmatizer uses the output of the taggerto disambiguate word forms with more than onepossible lemma.
It achieves an overall accuracyof about 99.3%.AcknowledgementsThe work described in this paper was conductedat the University of Paderborn and supported bythe Heinz Nixdorf-Institute.
The FrankfurterRundschau Corpus was generously donated bythe Druck- und Verlagshaus Frankfurt am Main.We thank Gisela Zunker for her help with theacquisition and preparation of the corpus.ReferencesArmstrong, S.; Russell, G.; Petitpierre, D.; Robert, G.(1995).
An open architecture for multilingual textprocessing.
In: Proceedings of the ACL SIGDATWorkshop.
From Texts to Tags: Issues in Multilin-gual Language Analysis, Dublin.Church, K.W.
(1988).
A stochastic parts program andnoun phrase parser for unrestricted text.
SecondConference on Applied Natural Language Proc-essing, Austin, Texas, 136-143.Drosdowski, G.
(ed.)
(1984).
Duden.
Grammatik derdeutschen Gegenwartssprache.
Mannheim:Dudenverlag.Greene, B.B., Rubin, G.M.
(1971).
AutomaticGrammatical Tagging of English.
Internal Report,Brown University, Department of Linguistics:Providence, Rhode Island.Hausser, R.
(ed.)
(1996).
Linguistische Verifikation.Dokumentation zur Ersten Morpholympics.Niemeyer: Ttibingen.Karp, D.; Schabes, Y.; Zaidel, M.; Egedi, D. (1992).A freely available wide coverage mophologicaianalyzer for English.
In:.
Proceedings of the 14thInternational Conference on Computational Lin-guistics.
Nantes, France.Lezius, W. (1996).
Morphologiesystem Morphy.
In:R. Hausser (ed.
): Linguistische Verifikation.
Do-kumentation zur Ersten Morpholympics.
Niemeyer:Tfibingen.
25-35.Lezius, W.; Rapp, R.; Wettler, M. (1996).
A mor-phology system and part-of-speech tagger forGerman.
In: D. Gibbon (ed.
): Natural LanguageProcessing and Speech Technology.
Results of the3rd KONVENS Conference, Bielefeld.
Berlin:Mouton de Gruyter.
369-378.Merialdo, B.
(1994).
Tagging English text with aprobabilistic model.
Computational Linguistics,20(2), 155-171.Rapp, R. (1996).
Die Berechnung yon Assoziationen:ein korpuslinguistischer Ansatz.
Hildesheim: Olms.Samuelsson, C., Voutilainen, A.
(1997).
Comparing alinguisti c and a stochastic tagger.
Proceedings ofthe 35th Annual Meeting of the ACL and 8th Con-ference of the European Chapter of the ACL.Wahrig, G. (1997).
Deutsches WOrterbuch.
Gtiters-loh: Bertelsmann.Appendix: AbbreviationsAKK accusative PLU pluralATT attributive usage POS possessiveDAT dative PRA present tenseFEM feminine PRO pronounGEN genitive SIN singularIMP imperative SUB nounKJI subjunctive 1 SZE punctuation markMAS masculine VER verbNOM nominative 1PE 1st personPER personal 3PE 3rd person747ZusammenfassungDie morphologische Analyse ist eine wichtigeGrundlage vieler Anwendungen zur Verarbei-tung nattirlicher Sprache, beispielsweise desSyntax-Parsing oder der maschinellen Uberset-zung.
Leider wurden die verfiigbaren Systemeh~iufig fiir rein kommerzielle Zwecke entwickeltoder sind als Bestandteile gr66erer Pakete nichteinzeln lauff~ihig.
Nach unseren Informationensteht lediglich far das Englische ein umfassen-des und dennoch frei verftigbares morphologi-sches Lexikon zur Verftigung.Allerdings gab es Versuche, auch for andereSprachen frei verf'tigbare Morphologieprogram-me bereitzustellen.
Beispielsweise wurde imRahmen des vonder Europ~iischen Union gef6r-derten MULTEXT-Projektes ein morphologi-sches Tool entwickelt, das f'tir sechs Amtsspra-chen, darunter auch Deutsch, konzipiert wurde.Die bereitgestellten Lexika sind jedoch in denmeisten F~illen icht sehr umfangreich.Demgegentiber umfa6t das Lexikon der aktu-ellen Version unseres Morphologie-Tools Mor-phy etwa 50.500 St~imme und damit tiber320.000 Vollformen.
Es wurde anhand es Wah-rig-W~Srterbuches mit 120.000 Stichw6rtern aufVollst~indigkeit i berpriift, wobei jedoch extremseltene oder als veraltet betrachtete WSrter nichtberiicksichtigt wurden.
Zudem wurden Kompo-sita in der Regel nicht in das Lexikon aufge-nommen, da sie von Morphy zur Laufzeit zerlegtwerden.Neben der morphologischen Analyse undSynthese enth~ilt Morphy einen Wortarten-Tagger sowie einen kontextsensitiven Lemmati-sierer.
Da das Programm nicht nur ftir Lingui-sten, sondern auch zur Untersttitzung desFremdsprachenerwerbes konzipiert ist, wurdeMorphy f'tir Standard-PCs unter Windows ent-wickelt.
Ffir Anwender anderer Betriebssystemebesteht die MSglichkeit, ein Vollformenlexikonim Textformat zu exportieren.748
