Flow Network Models for Word Alignment and TerminologyExtraction from Bilingual Corporal~ric GaussierXerox Research Centre Europe 6, Chemin de Maupertuis 38240 Meylan F.Eric.Gaussier@xrce.xerox.comAbst rac tThis paper presents a new model for word align-ments between parallel sentences, which allowsone to accurately estimate different parameters,in a computationally efficient way.
An applica-tion of this model to bilingual terminology ex-traction, where terms are identified in one lan-guage and guessed, through the alignment pro-cess, in the other one, is also described.
An ex-periment conducted on a small English-Frenchparallel corpus gave results with high precision,demonstrating the validity of the model.1 In t roduct ionEarly works, (Gale and Church, 1993; Brownet al, 1993), and to a certain extent (Kay andR6scheisen, 1993), presented methods to ex-~.
:'~.ct bi'_.'i~gua!
le~cons of words from a parallelCOl'p~s, relying on the distribution of the wordsin the set of parallel sentences (or other units).
(Brown et al, 1993) then extended their methodand established a sound probabilistic model se-ries, relying on different parameters describinghow words within parallel sentences are alignedto each other.
On the other hand, (Dagan etal., 1993) proposed an algorithm, borrowed tothe field of dynamic programming and based onthe output of their previous work, to find thebest alignment, subject to certain constraints,between words in parallel sentences.
A simi-lar algorithm was used by (Vogel et al, 1996).Investigating alignments at the sentence levelallows to clean and to refine the le~cons other-wise extracted from a parallel corpus as a whole,pruning what (Melamed, 1996) calls "indirectassociations".Now, what differentiates the models and algo-rithms proposed are the sets of parameters andconstraints they rely on, their ability to find anappropriate solution under the constraints de-fined and their ability to nicely integrate newparameters.
We want to present here a model ofthe possible alignments in the form of flow net-works.
This representation allows to define dif-ferent kinds of alignments and to find the mostprobable or an approximation of this most prob-able alignment, under certain constraints.
Ourprocedure presents the advantage of an accuratemodelling of the possible alignments, and can beused on small corpora.
We will introduce thismodel in the next section.
Section 3 describes aparticular use of this model to find term trans-lations, and presents the results we obtained forthis task on a small corpus.
Finally, the mainfeatures of our work and the research directionswe envisage are summarized in the conlcusion.2 A l ignments  and  f low networksLet us first consider the following a)Jgnedsentences, with the actual alignment beweenwords I:Assuming that we have probabilities of associ-ating English and French words, one way to findthe preceding alignment is to search for the most1All the examples consider English and French as thesource and target languages, even though the methodwe propose is independent of the language par underconsideration444probable alignment under the constraints thatany given English (resp.
French) word is asso-ciated to one and only one French (resp.
En-glish) word.
We can view a connection betweenan English and a French word as a flow goingfrom an English to a French word.
The preced-ing constraints tate that the  outgoing flow ofan English word and the ingoing one of a Frenchword must equal 1.
We also have connectionsentering the English words, from a source, andleaving the French ones, to a sink, to control theflow quantity we want to go through the words.2.1 F low networksWe meet here the notion of flow networks thatwe can formalise in the following way (we as-sume that the reader has basic notions of graphtheory).Def in i t ion  1: let G = (17, E) be a directedconnected graph with m edges.
A f low in G isa vector=(91,~2,  " ~m) T~R m(where T denotes the transpose of a matrix)such as, for each vertex i E V:E (1)ue~+(i) uew-(i)where w+(i) denotes the set of edges enteringvertex i, whereas w-( i )  is the set of edges leav-ing vertex i.We can, furthermore, associate to each edge uof G = (V,E)  two numbers, b~, and eu withb~, _< c,,, which will be called the lower capac-ity bound and the upper capacity bound of theedge.Def in i t ion  2: let G = (1/'.. E) be a directedconnected graph with lower and upper capacitybounds.
We will say that a flow 9 in  G is afeasible f low in G if it satisfies the followingcapacity constraints:Vu ~ E, b~ < 9~ < cu (2)Finally, let us associate to each edge u of a di-rected connected graph G = (V, E) with capac-ity intervals \[b~; c~\] a cost %, representing thecost (or inversely the probability) to use thisedge in a flow.
We can define the total cost,7 ?
9, associated to a flow 9 in G as follows:?
(a)uEEDef in i t ion  3: let G = (V,E)  be a connectedgraph with capacity intervals Ibm; c~\], u 6 E andcosts %,u  6 E. We will call m in ima l  costflow the feasible flow in G for which 7 x ?2 isminimal.Several algorithms have been proposed to com-pute the minimal cost flow when it exists.
Wewill not detail them here but refer the interestedreader to (Ford and Fulkerson, 1962; Klein,1967).2.2 A l ignment  mode lsFlows and networks define a general frameworkin which it is possible to model alignments be-tween words, and to find, under certain con-stralnts, the best alignment.
We present nowan instance of such a model, where the only pa-rameters involved are assoc ia t ion  probab i l -it ies between English and French words, andin which we impose that any English, respec-tively French word, has to be aligned with oneand only one French, resp.
English, word, possi-bly empty.
We can, of course, consider differentconstraints.
The constraints we define, thoughthey would yield to a complex computat ion forthe EM algorithm, do not privilege any direc-tion in an  underlying translation process.This model defines for each pair of alignedsentences a graph G(V, E) as follows:?
V comprises a source, a sink, all the Englishand French words, an empty English word,and an empty French word,?
E comprises edges from the source to all theEnglish words (including the empty one),edges from all the French words (includingthe empty one) to the sink, an edge fromthe sink to the source, and edges from allEnglish words (including the empty one) toall the French words (including the emptyone) 2.?
from the source to all possible Englishwords (excluding the empty one), the ca-pacity interval is \[1;1\],2The empty words account for the fact that wordsmay not be aligned with other ones, i.e.
they are notexphcitely translated for example.445?
from the source to the empty English word,the capacity interval is \[O;maz(le, 1/)\],where l I is the number of French words,and l~ the number of English ones,?
from the English words (including theempty one) to the French words (includ-ing the empty one), the capacity interval is\[0;1\],?
from the French words (excluding theempty one) to the sink, the capacity inter-val is \[1;1\].?
from the empty French word to the sink,the capacity interval is \[0; rnaz(l~, l/)\],?
from the sink to the source, the capacityinterval is \[0; max(le, l/)\].Once such a graph has been defined, we haveto assign cost values to its edges, to reflectthe different association probabilities.
We willnow see how to define the costs so as to re-late the minimal cost flow to a best alignment.Let a be an alignment, under the above con-straints, between the English sentence s, andthe French sentence f~.
Such an alignment acan be seen as a particular elation from the setof English words with their positions, includingempty words, to the set of French words withtheir positions, including empty words (in ourframework, it is formally equivalent to considera single empty word with larger upper capac-ity bound or several ones with smaller uppercapacity bounds; for the sake of simplicity inthe formulas, we consider here that we add asmany empty words as necessary in the sentencesto end up with two sentences containing le + l/words).
An alignment hus connects each En-glish word, located in position i, el, to a Frenchword, in position j, fj.
We consider that theprobability of such a connection depends on twodistinct and independent probabilities, the oneof linking two positions, p(%(i) = a~), and theone of linking two words, p(a~(ei) = f~).
Wecan then write:le+l IP(a,e~,f~)= I I  P(%(i)=ail(a,e,f)~ -1)i=1le+l Ir I  p(a,~(ei)= f~,l(a,e,f)~ -~)i=1(4)where P(a,e~,f~) is the probability of ob-serving the alignment a together withthe English and French sentences, esand f~, and (a,e,f)~ -1 is a shorthand for(a l ,  .., ai-1, e l , .
.
,  e l - l ,  fa l , . '
,  fa, - i  ).Since we simply rely in this model on asso-ciation probabilities, that we assume to be in-dependent, the only dependencies lying in thepossibilities to associate words across languages,we can simplify the above formula and write:le+l 1P(a,e, , f , )= \]-I p(ei,f~ilal )i-1 (5)i=1where a~ -1 is a shorthand for (al,..,ai-1).p(ei, f~,) is a shorthand for p(a~(ei) = f~,) thatwe will use throughout the article.
Due to theconstraints defined, we have: p(ei, f~,\[a~) = 0 ifai E a~ -1, and p(ei, ?, )  otherwise.Equation (5) shows that if we define the costassociated to each edge from an English word ei(excluding the empty word) to a French wordfj (excluding the empty word) to be 7~ =- lnp(ei, fj), the cost of an edge involving anempty word to be e, an arbitrary small positivevalue, and the cost of all the other edges (i.e.
theedges from SoP and SiP) to be 1 for example,then the minimal cost flow defines the alignmenta for which P(a, es, fs) is ma~mum,  under theabove constraints and approximations.We can use the following general algorithmbased on maximum likelihood under the max-imum approximation, to estimate the parame-ters of our model:...set some initial value to the different pa-rameters of the model,for each sentence pair in the corpus, com-pute the best alignment (or an appro~-mation of this alignment) between words,with respect o the model, and update thecounts of the different parameters with re-spect to this alignment (the ma~mum like-lihood estimators for model free distribu-tions are based on relative frequencies, con-ditioned by the set of best alignments in ourcase),go back to step 2 till an end condition isreached.446This algorithm converges after a few itera-tions.
Here, we have to be carefull with step 1.In particular, if we consider at the beginningof the process all the possible alignments to beequiprobable, then all the feasible flows are min-imal cost flows.
To avoid this situation, we haveto start with initial probabilities which makeuse of the fact that some associations, occurringmore often in the corpus, should have a largerprobability.
Probabilities based on relative fre-quencies, or derived fl'om the measure definedin (Dunning, 1993), for example, allow to takethis fact into account.We can envisage more complex models, in-cluding distortion parameters, multiword no-tions, or information on part-of-speech, infor-mation derived from bilingual dictionaries orfrom thesauri.
The integration of new param-eters is in general straigthforward.
For multi-word notions, we have to replace the capacityvalues of edges connected to the source and thesink with capacity intervals, which raises severalissues that we will not address in this paper.
Werather want to present now an application of theflow network model to multilingual terminologyextraction.3 Mu l t i l i ngua l  te rmino logyext rac t ionSeveral works describe methods to extractterms, or candidate terms, in English and/orFrench (Justeson and Katz, 1995; Daille, 1994;Nkwenti-Azeh, 1992).
Some more specific worksdescribe methods to align noun phrases withinparallel corpora (Kupiec, 1993).
The under-lying assumption beyond these works is thatthe monolingually extracted units correspond toeach other cross-lingually.
Unfortunately, thisis not always the case, and the above method-ology suffers from the weaknesses pointed outby (Wu, 1997) concerning parse-parse-matchprocedures.It is not however possibie to fully rejectthe notion of grammar for term extraction,in so far as terms are highly characterizedby their internal syntactic structure.
We canalso admit that lexical affinities between thediverse constituents of a unit can provide agood clue for termhood, but le~cal affinities,or otherwise called collocations, affect differ-ent finguistic units that need anyway be distin-guished (Smadja, 1992).Moreover, a study presented in (Gaussier,1995) shows that terminology extraction in En-glish and in French is not symmetric.
In manycases, it is possible to obtain a better approxi-mation for English terms than it is for Frenchterms.
This is partly due to the fact thatEnglish relies on a composition of Germanictype, as defined in (Chuquet and Palllard, 1989)for example, to produce compounds, and ofRomance type to produce free NPs, whereasFrench relies on Romance type for both, withthe classic PP attachment problems.These remarks lead us to advocate a mixedmodel, where candidate terms are identified inEnglish and where their French correspondentis searched for.
But since terms constitute rigidunits, lying somewhere between single word no-tions and complete noun phrases, we should notconsider all possible French units, but only theones made of consecutive words.3.1 Mode lIt is possible to use flow network models tocapture relations between English and Frenchterms.
But since we want to discover Frenchunits, we have to add extra vertices and nodesto our previous model, in order to account forall possible combinations of consecutive Frenchwords.
We do that by adding several ayers ofvertices, the lowest layer being associated withthe French words themselves, and each vertexin any upper layer being linked to two consec-utive vertices of the layer below.
The uppestlayer contains only one vertex and can be seenas representing the whole French sentence.
Wewill call a fert i l i ty g raph  the graph thus ob-tained.
Figure 1 gives an example of part ofa fertility graph (we have shown the flow val-ues on each edge for clarity reasons; the brack-ets delimit a nultiword candidate term; we havenot drawn the whole fertility graph encompass-ing the French sentence, but only part of it,the one encompassing the unit largeur de bandeutilisde, where the possible combinations of con-secutive words are represented by A, B, and C).Note that we restrict ourselves to le:dcal words(nouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs), not try-ing to align grammatical words.
Furthermore,we rely on lemmas rather than inflected froms,thus enabling us to conflate in one form all thevariants of a verb for example (we have keeped447bandwidth used in \[ FSS telecommunications \]largeur ~ a l ~  SFSFigure 1: Pseudo-alignment within a fertility graphinflected forms in our figures for readability rea-sons).The minimal cost flow in the graphs thus de-fined may not be directly usable.
This is due totwo problems:1. first, we can have ambiguous associations:in figure 1, for example, the association be-tween bandwidth and largeur de bande canbe obtained through the edge linking thesetwo units (type 1), or through two edges,one from bandwidth to largeur de bande.,and one from bandwidth to either largeuror hap.de (type 2), or even through the twoedges from bandwidth to largeur and bande(type 3),2. secondly, there may be conflicts betweenconnections: in figure 1 both largeur debande and tdldcommunications arelinked tobandwidth even though they are not con-tiguous.To solve ambiguous associations, we simplyreplace each association of type 2 or 3 by theequivalent type 1 association 3.
For conflicts, weuse the following heuristics: first select the con-flicting edge with the lowest cost and assume3We can formally define an equivalence relation, interms of the associations obtained, but this is beyondthe scope of this paper.that the association thus defined actually oc-curred, then rerun the minimal cost flow algo-rithm with this selected edge fixed once and forall, and redo these two steps until there is nomore conflicting edges, replacing type 2 or 3 as-sociations as above each time it is necessary.Finally, the alignment obtained in this waywill be called a solved a l ignment  4.3.2 Exper imentIn order to test the previous model, we se-lected a small bilingual corpus consisting of1000 aligned sentences, from a corpus on satel-lite telecommunications.
We then ran the fol-lowing algorithm, based on the previous model:1. tag and lemmatise the English and Frenchtexts, mark all the English candidate termsusing morpho-syntactic rules encoded inregular expressions,2.
build a first set of association probabili-ties, using the likelihood ratio test definedin (Gaussier, 1995),3. for each pair of aligned sentences, con-struct the fertility graph allowing a candi-date term of length n to be aligned withunits of lenth (n-2) to (n+2), define the4Once the solved alignment is computed, it is possi-ble to determine the word associations between alignedunits, through the application of the process describedin the previous section with multiword notions.448costs of edges linking English vertices toFrench ones as the opposite of the loga-rithm of the normalised sum of probabili-ties of all possible word associations definedby the edge (for the edge between multiple(el) access (e2) to the French unit acc~s(fl) mulitple (f2) it is ?
(~i,jp(ei, f j ) ) ) ,all the other edges receive an arbitrary costvalue, compute the solved alignment, andincrement the count of the associations ob-tained by overall value of the solved align-nlent,4.
select the fisrt i00 unit associations accord-ing to their count, and consider them asvalid.
Go back to step 2, excluding fromthe search space the associations selected,till all associations have been extracted.3.3 ResultsTo evaluate the results of the above procedure,we manually checked each set of associations ob-tained after each iteration of the process, goingfrom the first 100 to the first 500 associations.We considered an association as being correctif the French expression is a proper translationof the English expression.
The following tablegives the precision of the associations obtained.N.
Assoc.
Prec.100 98200 97300 96400 95500 901: GenerM results TableThe associations we are faced with representdifferent linguistic units.
Some consist of singlecontent words, whereas others represent multi-word expressions.
One of the particularity ofour process is precisely to automatically identifymultiword expressions in one language, know-ing units in the other one.
With respect o thistask, we extracted the first two hundred mul-tiword expressions from the associations above,and then checked wether they were valid or not.We obtained the following results:N. Assoc.
Prec.100 97200 94Table 2: Multiword notion resultsAs a comparison, (Kupiec, 1993) obtained aprecision of 90% for the first hundred associa-tions between English and French noun phrases,using the EM algorithm.
Our experiments witha similar method showed a precision around92% for the first hundred associations on a setof aligned sentences comprising the one used forthe above experiment.An evaluation on single words, showed a pre-cision of 9870 for the first hundred and 97% forthe first two hundred.
But these figures shouldbe seen in fact as lower bounds of actual val-ues we can get, in so far as we have not triedto extract single word associations from multi-word ones.
Here is an example of associationsobtained.te lecommunicat ion  satell itesatelllite de tdldcommunicationcommunicat ion  satell itesatelllite de tdldcommunicationnew satell ite sys temnouveau syst~me de satellitesyst~me de satellite nouveausyst~me de satellite enti~rement ouveauoperat ing fss te lecommunicat ion  li kexploiter la liason de tdldcommunication du sfsimplement  mise en oeuvrewavelength longueur d'oncleoffer offrir, proposeroperat ion exploitation, opdrationThe empty words (prepositions, determiners)were extracted from the sentences.
In all thecases above, the use of prepositions and deter-miners was consistent all over the corpus.
Thereare cases where two French units differ on apreposition.
In such a case, we consider thatwe have two possible different ranslations forthe English term.4 Conc lus ionWe presented a new model for word alignmentbased on flow networks.
This model allowsus to integrate different ypes of constraints inthe search for the best word alignment withinaligned sentences.
We showed how this modelcan be applied to terminology extraction, wherecandidate terms are extracted in one language,449and discovered, through the alignment process,in the other one.
Our procedure presents threemain differences over other approaches: we donot force term translations to fit within specificpatterns, we consider the whole sentences, thusenabling us to remove some ambiguities, and werely on the association probabilities of the unitsas a whole, but also on the association proba-bilities of the elements within these units.The main application of the work we havedescribed concerns the extraction of bilinguallexicons.
Such extracted lexicons can be usedin different contexts: as a source to help le~-cographers build bilingual dictionaries in techni-cal domains, or as a resource for machine aidedhuman translation systems.
In this last case,we can envisage several ways to extend the no-tion of translation unit in translation memorysystems, as the one proposed in (Lang~ et al,1997).5 AcknowledgementsMost of this work was done at the IBM-FranceScientific Centre during my PhD research, un-der the direction of Jean-Marc Lang,, to whomI express my gratitude.
Many thanks also toJean-Pierre Chanod, Andeas Eisele, David Hull,and Christian Jacquemin for useful commentson earlier versions.Re ferencesPeter F. Brown, Stephen A. Della Pietra, Vin-cent J. Della Pietra, and Robert L. Mercer.1993.
The mathematics of statistical machinetranslation: Parameter estimation.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 19(2).H.
Chuquet and M. Paillard.
1989.
Ap-proche linguistique des probl@mes de traduc-tion anglais-fran~ais.
Ophrys.Ido Dagan, Kenneth W.  Church, andWilliam A. Gale.
1993.
Robust bilin-gual word alignment for machine aidedtranslation.
In Proceedings of the Workshopon Very Large Corpora.B~atrice Daille.
1994.
Approche mixte pourl'extraction de terminologie : statistique l x-icale et filtres linguistiques.
Ph.D. thesis,Univ.
Paris 7.T.
Dunning.
1993.
Accurate methods for thestatistics of surprise and coincidence.
Com-putational Linguistics, 19(1).L.R.
Ford and D.R.
Fulkerson.
1962.
Flows innetworks.
Princeton University Press.William Gale and Kenneth Church.
1993.
Aprogram for aligning sentences in bilingualcorpora.
Computational Linguistics, 19(1).\]~ric Gaussier.
1995.
Mod@les tatistiques et pa-trons morphosyntaxiques pour l'extraction delexiques bilingues de termes.
Ph.D. thesis,Univ.
Paris 7.John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz.
1995.Technical terminology: some linguistic prop-erties and an algorithm for identification intext.
Natural Language Engineering, 1(1).Martin Kay and M. R6scheisen.
1993.
Text-translation alignment.
Computational Lin-guistics, 19(1).M.
Klein.
1967.
A primal method for minimalcost flows, with applications to the assign-ment and transportation problems.
Manage-ment Science.Julian Kupiec.
1993.
An algorithm for findingnoun phrase correspondences in bilingual cor-pora.
In Proceedings of the 31st Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Jean-Marc Lang@, \]~ric Gaussier, and B~atriceDaill.
1997.
Bricks and skeletons: some ideasfor the near future of maht.
Machine Trans-lation, 12(1).Dan I. Melamed.
1996.
Automatic onstructionof clean broad-coverage translation lexicons.In Proceedings of the Second Conference ofthe Association for Machine Translation inthe Americas (AMTA).Basile Nkwenti-Azeh.
1992.
Positional andcombinational characteristics of satellite com-munications terms.
Technical report, CC1-UMIST, Manchester.Frank Smadja.
1992.
How to compile abilingual collocational lexicon automatically.In Proceedings of AAAI-92 Workshop onStatistically-Based NLP techniques.Stephan Vogel, Hermann Ney, and ChristophTillmann.
1996.
Hmm-based word align-ment in statistical translation.
In Proceedingsof the Sixteenth International Conference onComputational Linguistics.Dekai Wu.
1997.
Stochastic inversion trans-duction grammars and bilingual parsing ofparallel corpora.
Computational Linguistics,23(3).450
