Tense and Connect ive  Constra ints  on the Express ion of Causal i tyPasca l  Amsi l iTALANA,Universit6 Paris 72, pl.
Jussieu, case 7003F-75251 PARIS Cedex 05, FrancePascal.
Amsili@linguist.
jussieu, frandCor inne  Rossar iUnivers l t6  de  Gen~ve,Facult6 des Lettres, dpt de Linguistique2, rue de Candolle,CH-1211 GENI~VE 4, SwitzerlandCorinne.
Rossar i@lettres, unige, chAbst ractStarting from descriptions of French connectives(in particular "donc"---therefore), on the onehand, and aspectual properties of French tensespass4 simple and imparfait on the other hand,we study in this paper how the two interactwith respect o the expression of causality.
Itturns out that their interaction is not free.
Somecombinations are not acceptable, and we pro-pose an explanation for them.
These results ap-ply straightforwardly to natural language gen-eration: given as input two events related bya cause relation, we can choose among vari-ous ways of presentation (the parameters being(i) the order, (ii) the connective, (iii) the tense)so that we are sure to express a cause relation,without generating either an incorrect discourseor an ambiguous one.1 I n t roduct ionThe work reported in this paper aims at deter-mining which constraints hold on the interac-tion between the expression of causality (withor without connective) and aspectual propertiesof the eventualities and of the tenses used to ex-press them.
As a matter of fact, it turns outthat, at least in French, the choice of one of thetwo tenses pass4 simple (PS) or impar/ait (IMP)is not neutral with respect o the expression ofcausality, in particular ealised by means of theconnective "don c" (theref0re).It has been observed that even when con-cerned only with temporal localisation, it is notenough to characterize t nses if one do not takeinto account he effects of discourse relations be-tween eventualities 1: (1a-b) (Molendijk, 1996);it has also been observed that the use of the1We use the term eventuality to refer to either events,states or processes, as is traditional since (Bach, 1981).connective "donc" is itself subject o various ac-ceptability constraints (lc-d) (Jayez, 1998).
(1) a. Paul attrapa une contravention.I1 roulait avec plaisirPaul got fined.
He was driving withpleasure 2b.
Paul attrapa une contravention.I1 roulait trop vitePaul got fined.
He was driving too fastc.
La branche cassa.Paul tombait donc dans le videThe branch broke.Paul was therefore falling downd.
Sa premiere demande fut refus6e.I1 en r6digeait donc une autreHis first application was refused.He was therefore writing another oneOur objective in this paper is twofold: wewant to study systematically the interactionbetween the various parameters we have men-tionned, in order to provide a genera l  expla-nat ion  for the acceptabilities that have beenobserved, and we also want these explanationsbe formulated in terms of "conditions of use", sothat our results are exploitable for text  gen-erat ion.
As a matter of fact, the choice of anappropriate form to express a cause relation be-tween events has proved a non trivial problem(Danlos, 1987; Danlos, 1998).
Two parametershave been identified as playing an importantrole: first, the order of presentation (cause be-fore consequence, or the contrary), and second,2The contrast between PS and IMP is only roughly par-allel to that between simple past and past progressive:e.g., the translation into French of a simple past can beeither PS or IMP.
We translate systematically IMP intopast progressive, ven when the glose does not have thesame aspectuo-temporal properties as the French origi-nal.
Similarly, "therefore" is only roughly equivalent to"done".48the presence (or absence) of a connective 3.
Theexamples we deal with in this paper suggest thattenses, at least in French and in particular thechoice between PS and IMP must  also be takeninto account.The assumptions we make for this work arethe following.We assume the view on discourse adoptedwithin the SRDT framework (Asher, 1993): ina coherent discourse, sentences are linked bydiscourse relations, which help finding anaphorantecedents, computing temporal localisations,etc.
Here, we are concerned only with two dis-course relations, both involving causality.
Wecall the first one result, as in (Lascarides andAsher, 1993), it holds between two sentenceswhen the main eventuality of the first one is thecause of the main eventuality of the second one.We assume here a very open notion of causal-ity that we don't want to refine.
4 We call theother one explanation, it holds between two sen-tences when the cause is presented after its con-sequence, thus playing an explanation role forthe first sentence.
This configuration i  inter-action with "donc" has been studied in (Rossariand Jayez, 1997) where it is called "causal ab-duction".We adopt as a basis for the description ofIMP the proposal made in the DRT frame-work (Kamp and Rohrer, 1983; Kamp andReyle, 1993), amended with proposals made inFrench literature, in particular concerning theanaphoric properties of this tense (Tasmowski-De Ryck, 1985; Vet and Molendijk, 1985;Molendijk, 1994).At last, we adopt the description of the con-nective "donc" which is elaborated, in terms ofconditions of use and semantic effects, in (Jayezand Rossari, 1998).We start by considering discourses where acause is presented after its consequence (i.e., anexplanation discourse relation should hold).
Weobserve that a PS-IMP sequence is sufficient oachieve the explanation effect, but that this se-quence is constrained by the type of causality3(Danlos, 1988) shows the influence of many othersparameters, like the voice active vs. passive, the presenceof a relative clause, etc.4For instance, we assume that causality holds be-tween a branch breaking and John's falling (direct), butalso between Jean's repairing his car and his driving it(indirect).at stake.
We also notice that connectives do notseem to interfere with tenses in this case (?
2).We then examine discourses where the causeis presented before the consequence.
In the ab-sence of connective, we observe that none of theacceptable forms automatically convey causality(?
3.1).
With the connective "donc", causalityis imposed by the connective, but in its turn itbrings new constraints (?
3.2).
For each set ofexamples, we provide a general explanation anddraw conclusions for text generation.2 Consequence-Cause  Conf igurat ion2.1 DataEven if a causality (the second sentence intro-ducing the cause of the first one) is pragmati-cally possible in all these examples, we observethat a sequence PS-PS imposes in French a tem-poral sequence interpretation: in all the exam-ples (3), the main eventuality of the second sen-tence is interpreted as temporally located afterthe one of the first sentence, and this is strictlyincompatible with a causality, where cause mustprecede its effect.
Notice that here Ps in Frenchbehaves differently from simple past in English.
5(3) a. Jean tomba.
La branche cassaJean fell.
The branch brokeb.
Jean attrapa une contravention.Il roula trop viteJean got fined.
He drove too fastc.
Marie cria.
Jean lui cassa la figureMarie cried.
Jean hit herd.
Jean prit sa vulture.
Il la r@paraJean took his car.
He repaired ite.
Jean se salit.
Il r@para sa voitureJean dirtied himsel?
He repaired his carNow, if one chooses, with the same order ofpresentation, the tense combination PS-IMP, thecausality effect is easily achieved.
This is thecase for the examples (4).
(4) a. Jean attrapa une contravention.I1 roulait trop viteJean got a fine.
He was driving too fastb.
Marie cria.
Jean lui cassait la figureMarie cried.
Jean was hitting her5The translation of the ambiguous example (2a) (Las-carides and Asher, 1993) is not ambiguous in Frenchwhere no causal interpretation is available (2b).
(2) a. John fell.
Max pushed him.b.
Jean tomba.
Max le poussa.49However, this choice is not always applicable,since it can give rise to unacceptable forms: (5)are either incorrect, or do not convey causality.
(5) a.
@ Jean tomba.
La branche cassaitJean fell.
The branch was breakingb.
@ Jean prit sa voiture.
Il la r6paraitJean took the car.
He was repairing itThe connective "donc" can be used in suchconfigurations, without changing acceptability.The denoted relation in this case concerns boththe epistemic level (attitudinal) and the descrip-tive level (propositional) (Jayez and Rossari,1998).
We consider in this paper only usesof "donc" where the epistemic level does notchange fondamentaly the relation.
62.2 Discuss ionWe think that these acceptabilities can be ex-plained if one takes into account two princi-ples: one concerns causality itself in connectionwith aspectuality, the other concerns the FrenchIMP'S ability to act as an aspectual operator.2.2.1 Causa l i tyTo account for the contrast between (4) and(5), we have to be more specific about the waycausality can hold between eventualities.
Let usassume l is the cause of e2.
We can distinguishtwo cases:1. el has to be completed to be the cause of e2.For instance, the breaking of the branch hasto be completed before Jean can fall; Jean'scar has to be repaired before he can driveit.2.
it is not necessary for el to be completedto be the cause of e2.
For instance, startingto repair the car is enough to be the causeof one's getting dirty; driving too fast isenough to get a fine, independantly of thecompletion of el.We call the first case accomplished causality.Notice that this distinction is independant of theaspectual class of the verb describing the even-tuality.
It is only a matter of world knowledge.6In this configuration, "car" (.for) is the non markedconnective.
Its introduction does not change notably theacceptability jugements, we leave the examination of itsspecific onstraints for another study.2.2.2 IMP as an aspectual operatorOne of the most important properties of IMPis that it imposes an imperfective (durative,non accomplished) view on the eventuality (Vet,1980).
The way this effect operates can be de-scribed the following way, assuming the usualpartition of predicates into the four Vendler's(1967) aspectual classes.States, activities These eventualities, eitherhomogenious ( tates) or not (activities), arenon terminative, in the sense that they donot have a natural term (end) (e.g., to knowthe truth--state,  to run--activity).
ThenIMP is entirely compatible, thus have noparticular effect.Ach ievements ,  accompl i shments  These arecharacterised by the existence of a natu-ral term.
The imperfective point of viewbrought by IMP imposes a change of pointof view on the term of the eventuality.As for accompl i shments ,  we can assumethat they can be decomposed into severalstages, according to (Moens and Steedman,1988): first a preparatory phase, second aculmination (or achievement) (we are notconcerned here with the result state).
Wecan then say that IMP refers only to thepreparatory phase, so that the term of theeventuality loses all relevance.
This ex-plains the so-called imperfective paradox:it is possible to use IMP even though theeventuality never reaches its term:(6) a. I1 traversait la rue quand la voiturel'a 6cras6He was crossing the street when the carhit himb.
* I1 traversa la rue quand la voiturel'a 6cras6He crossed the street when the carhit himAs for ach ievements ,  we can assume thatthey are reduced to a culmination.
ThenIMP can only be interpreted by stretchingthis culmination, transforming a fundamen-taly punctual event into a process or activ-ity.
Then there is no more natural term forsuch a stretched event.2.2.3 Causality and aspectSo, when we have a non accomplished causality,i.e., when it is possible to state the cause rela-50tion as soon as the eventuality has started, thenIMP does not impose further constraint, and thesequence PS-IMP is always correct, and conveysthe appropriate causality effect.
This is the casefor the examples (4, 7), where an explanationdiscourse relation is infered.
(7) Jean se salit.
I1 rfiparait sa voitureJean got dirty.
He was repairing his carOn the contrary, if we have an accomplishedcausality, i.e.
if the cause event has to be com-pleted to be a cause for the other event, then IMPis never possible, for even with terminative even-tualities (the branch breaking, fixing the car), ithas the effect of blocking the terminativity, anda causal interpretation is no longer possible (5).The contrast (8) can thus be easily explained:in (8a), we have a lexically punctual event, madedurative by the IMP.
But going through a redlight has to be completed to risk a fine; in (8b),we have an activity, and it is sufficient o havestarted it to risk a fine.
(8) a. , Jean attrapa une contravention.I1 brfllait un feu rougeJean got a fine.
He was going througha red lightb.
Jean attrapa une contravention.I1 brfilait les feux rougesJean got a fine.
He was going throughthe red lights2.3 App l i ca t ionThe consequences of the observations and thehypotheses made earlier, when it comes to textgeneration, are the following:If one wants to present wo eventualities re-lated by a cause relation, so that the conse-quence is presented before the cause, leading toan explanation interpretation of the discourse,one should obey the following principles:1.
A PS-PS combination is not appropriate.2.
A PS- IMP combination conveys causality,provided that we have a non accomplishedcausality.
Otherwise, the PS-IMP combina-tion is not valid.We should note again that these constraintsare not lexical, in the sense that they do notrely on aspectual classes, but rather on worldknowledge.3 Cause-Consequence  Conf igurat ionLet us now turn to the other mode of presenta-tion, namely the one where cause is presentedbefore its consequence.
We first consider caseswithout connectives, and see that good accept-abilities go along with higher ambiguity: cor-rect example do not always convey causality(?
3.1).
Then we consider the use of the con-nective "donc", and observe that it changes theacceptabilities (?
3.2).3.1 Wi thout  connect ive3.1.1 DataThe first observation is that it is possible to usea PS-PS sequence.
In the absence of other dis-course clues, such a sequence is interpreted inFrench as a temporal sequence relation.
Such atemporal interpretation is compatible with, butof course does not necessary imply, a cause re-lation.
(9) a.b.C.d.La branche cassa.
I1 tomba dans le videThe branch broke.
He fell downPaul vit sa demande rejet~e.I Ien r~digea une autrePaul's application was rejected.He wrote an other oneI1 rut nomm~ PDG.I1 contr61a tout le personnelHe was appointed chairman.He had control over the whole staffI1 appuya sur la d~tente.
Le coup partit.He pressed the trigger.
The gun went offChanging the PS-PS sequence into a PS-IMPchanges only marginally the acceptabilities, andthe same observation as before holds: these dis-courses do not necessarily imply causality.
(10) a.
La branche cassa.I1 tombait duns le videThe branch broke.
He was falling downb.
Paul vit sa demande rejet~e.I1 en r~digeait une autrePaul's application was rejected.He was writing an other onec.
I1 fut nomm~ PDG.I1 contr61ait tout le personnelHe was appointed chairman.He was having control over the whole staffd.
?
I1 appuya sur la d~tente.Le coup partait.He pressed the trigger.The gun was going off51For instance, (10b-c) can also be interpretedas background iscourses, where the IMP of thesecond sentence is seen as introducing a back-ground situation holding before and after theevent introduced in the first sentence.
This in-terpretation, often given as the default one forIMP-PS sequences (Kamp and Rohrer, 1983), isnevertheless only available when world knowl-edge does not exclude it (10a).
In any case, suchan interpretation is incompatible with a causalinterpretation.3.1.2 DiscussionSo it turns out that PS-IMP sequences can havein general two interpretations: one where thetwo events follow each other, and this interpre-tation is thus compatible with a causality inter-pretation, and another one where the eventual-ity described by the IMP sentence overlaps withthe event given before.This can be explained if one assumes the op-eration of IMP as described in (Molendijk, 1994),in a DRT framework, itself inspired by (Reichen-bach, 1947).One of the features of IMP is to state thesimultaneousness of the eventuality describedwith some reference point (henceforth Rpt), lo-cated in the past of the speech time.
This oper-ation can be called anaphoric, since IMP needssome other point given by the context.
This isclearly what happens with the background ef-fect.
But it has also been shown, in particularby Tasmowski-De Ryck (1985), that there aresome uses of IMP (called imparfait de rupture--"breaking IMP") which are not strictly anaphoric,in the sense that the Rpt cannot be identifiedwith any previously introduced event.
Rather,it seems that such uses of IMP strongly entail theexistence of an implicit Rpt, distinct from theevents already introduced.
It is also observedthat this ability of IMP to bring with it a Rptis constrained.
In particular, there must be away to connect his Rpt to the other eventual-ities of the discourse.
Molendijk (1996) showsthat this connection can be a causal relation.
Ithas also been observed that an implicit Rpt isalways temporally located after the last eventintroduced.
So this is compatible with a causal-ity interpretation.3.1.3 App l i ca t ionFrom a text generation point of view, the obser-vations we have just made cannot be easily ex-ploited: obviously, in a Cause-Consequence con-figuration, all the tense combinations we haveseen are not informative nough, and cannot beused, if one wants to guarantee that the conceptof causality is conveyed by the discourse.It is thus necessary to be more explicit, forinstance by adding a connective.
This is whatwe are concerned with in the next section.So, if we leave apart the PS-PS sequence, whatwe have seen so far in ?
2 is that the tense com-bination is sufficient o convey a causality rela-tion in Consequence-Cause configurations, andthen the connectives do not impose further con-straints and do not change what is conveyed.The situation in this section (?
3) is in a waysymetrical: in a Cause-Consequence configura-tion, the tense configuration is not sufficient, sothat adding a connective is necessary.
But, aswe see in the next section, there are further con-straints on the connectives.3.2 Wi th  the  connect ive  "doric"3.2.1 DataOne can observe that "donc" is perfectly com-patible with PS-PS sequences like the ones in (9).What is more surprising is that adding "donc"to the PS-IMP sequence xamples we have seen(10) clearly changes the acceptabilities:(11) a.
??
La branche cassa.
I1 tombait doncdans le videThe branch broke.
He was therefore fallingdownb.
Paul vit sa demande rejet~e.
I Ienr~digeait doric une autrePaul's application was rejected.
He wastherefore writing another onec.
I1 fut nomm~ PDG.
I1 contr61ait donctout le personnelHe was appointed chairman.
He wastherefore having control over the whole staffd.
??
I1 appuya sur la d~tente.Le coup partait donc.He pressed the trigger.
The gun wastherefore going offThe clearer contrast concerns cases where thesecond sentence contains an activity verb.
Insuch cases, the introduction of"donc" leads sys-tematically to bad sentences.
On the contrary,it seems that "donc" is always compatible withstate and accomplishment verbs.As for achievements, it seems that the intro-duction of"donc" also yields bad sentences, but52it is worth noting that the simple sequence PS-IMP without connective is already slightly prob-lematic, as we have seen in (10d).
We come backto this point later.3.2.2 DiscussionWe are not yet able to provide a completely elab-orated explanation for these observations.
Whatwe propose here is a list of possible answers, sug-gested by more fine-grained considerations ondata.Note however that from the previous observa-tion we can draw the principle that we can gen-erate sentences in a Cause-Consequence configu-ration, with a PS-IMP sequence, and the connec-tive "doric" but the aspectual class of the verbhas to be taken into account.
It leads to accept-able sentences only with accomplishments andstates.It is clear that aspectual classes play a role,which is not surprising, and this is the reasonwhy all our example lists comprise each timeone verb from each aspectual class.The most problematic ontrast concerns thedifference between activities and accomplish-ments.
The connective "donc" seems to workvery well with accomplishments and very badwith activities, even though accomplishmentscan be seen as composed of an activity fol-lowed by a culmination.
One possible explana-tion could rely on the observation that the re-sult relation brought by "donc" holds not at thepropositionnal level, not even at the aspectual(i.e., point of view on events), but rather at anattitudinal level (Rossari and Jayez, 1997).
Be-sides, one can observe that what distinguishesactivities and accomplishments is not the na-ture itself of the eventuality, but rather the factthat one expects/considers the culmination of itin one case and not in the other.
So this can beseen as a difference of (propositional) attitudeover the eventualities.
We are presently workingon the elaboration of a proposal based on thisviewpoint.
It is also worth observing that thetemporal interval that lies between a cause andits consequence might play a role, as suggestedby (Jayez, 1998), especially for this contrast be-tween activities and accomplishments.As for achievements, we have already notedthat their compatibility with IMP is not entirelyestablished, for reasons coming from the punc-tual nature of achievements.
It is also worthnoting that there is an affinity between achieve-ments and "imparfait de rupture" (Tasmowski-De Ryck, 1985).
Of course, as suggested byits name, such use of IMP introduces a sort ofbreak in the discourse, which is of course com-patible with causality, but might not be com-patible with the way "donc" operates, requiringa strong connection between two utterances.4 Conc lus ionSummary  We summarize our observations inthe table 1.
We consider in this table all thepossible configurations one has when the threefollowing parameters vary.1.
Order of presentation: el before e2 or theother way around (assuming el is the causeof ee).2.
Presence of a connective "donc" or "car".
73.
Use of  PS or  IMP.Table 1: Ways of expressing "CAUSE(el, e2)"When D.R.
HowAlways res e~ S. Donc e~ sexp e~ ~.
Car 7 e~ SPs e~S SHC e 1 .ntr e~ s. e~PSometimes C1 res e~'.
Donc e~ PC2 exp e~ .
( CarT/? )
e~ MPNever e~ M".
(Donc / I~ ) e~Ps e~S e .~.e~ p. (Car 7 /0 )e~ ~ConstraintsC I :  e2 : state or accompl ishmentC2: non accompl ished causal i tyAmong the combinations, some are alwayspossible (which does not mean they always con-vey causality), some are never possible, thatis, either uninterpretable or incompatible withcausality.
Some are sometimes possible, depend-ing on various constraints as shown in this pa-per.
Notice that we mention in this table someconfigurations we have not considered so far,namely configurations with an IMP-PS sequence.r As we have already said, we are only concerned inthis paper with "donc" and mention "car" only for thesake of completeness.53We mention them here only for the sake of com-pleteness, since they can never be used to ex-press causality.The second column of the table gives the dis-course relation associated with each configura-tion.
In some cases, it is a cause relation, ei-ther in one direction (result-res) or in the other(explanation-exp).
The other cases are compat-ible with a cause relation, without conveying it,which is noted in the table as "suc" (for tempo-ral succession) or "ntr" (neutral-for ambiguouscases between background or temporal succes-sion).Conc lus ion  This paper shows that the inter-action of constraints coming from tenses andconnecti.ves i rather delicate to characterize,even in the limited domain of the expression ofcausality.
It also shows, however, that it is pos-sible to draw from the linguistic haracterisationof these enough principles to be able to generatediscourses conveying causality with good guar-anties on the achieved effect, and control overthe influence of tenses often neglected in thisrespect.We are presently studying the treatment ofother connectives, and the extension to othertenses.AcknowledgmentsWe wish to thank Laurent Roussarie, as well asthe anonymous reviewers for their helpful com-ments on earlier versions of this paper.Re ferencesNicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Ob-jects in Discourse.
Kluwer Academic Pub-lisher.Emmon Bach.
1981.
On time, tense and aspect:An essay on english metaphysics.
In PeterCole, editor, Radical Pragmatics, pages 62-81.
Academic Press, New York.Laurence Danlos.
1987.
The Linguistic Basisof Text Generation.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Laurence Danlos.
1988.
Connecteurs et rela-tions causales.
Langue Franfaise, 77:92-127.Laurence Danlos.
1998.
Causal relations indiscourse: Event structure and event coref-erence.
In Pierrette Bouillon and FredericaBusa, editors, Studies within the GenerativeLexicon Framework.
CUP Press.
to appear.Jacques Jayez and Corinne Rossari.
1998.
Laport@e s@mantique d'un connecteur pragma-tique.
Cahiers de l'Institut de Linguistique deLouvain.
to appear.Jacques Jayez.
1998.
Les approches formellesde l'enchatnement des temps.
L'exemple de laSDRT.
Manuscript.Hans Kamp and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
From dis-course to logic.
Kluwer Academic Publisher.Hans Kamp and Christian Rohrer.
1983.
Tensein texts.
In R. B~uerle, C. Schwarze, andA.
von Stechow, editors, Meaning, Use andInterpretation of Language, pages 250-269.De Gruyter, Berlin.Alex Lascarides and Nicholas Asher.
1993.Temporal interpretation, discourse relationsand commonsense entailment.
Linguisticsand Philosophy, 16(5):437-493.Marc Moens and Marc Steedman.
1988.
Tem-poral ontology and temporal reference.
Com-putational Linguistics, 14(2):15-28.Arie Molendijk.
1994.
Tense use and temporalorientation: the 'pass@ simple' and 'imparfait'of french.
In C. Vet and C. Vetters, editors,Tense and Aspect in Sentence and Discourse,pages 21-47.
De Gruyter.Arie Molendijk.
1996.
Anaphore et imparfait :la r@f@rence globale ?
des situations pr@-suppos@es ou impliqu@es.
Cahiers Chronos,1:109-123.Hans Reichenbach.
1947.
Elements of symboliclogic.
McMillan, New York.Corinne Rossari and Jacques Jayez.
1997.
Con-necteurs de cons@quence t port@e s@man-tique.
Cahiers de Linguistique Franfaise,19:233-265.Liliane Tasmowski-De Ryck.
1985.
L'imparfaitavec et sans rupture.
Langue Franfaise,67:59-77.Zeno Vendler.
1967.
Linguistics and Philoso-phy.
Cornel University Press, Ithaca, N.Y.Co Vet and Arie Molendijk.
1985.
The dis-course functions of past tenses of french.
InV.
Lo Cascio and C. Vet, editors, TemporalStructure in Sentence and Discourse, pages133-159.
Foris.Co Vet.
1980.
Temps, aspect et adverbesde temps en franfais contemporain.
Droz,Gen@ve.54
