Veins Theory:A Model of Global Discourse Cohesion and CoherenceDan CRISTEADept.
of Computer ScienceUniversity <<A.I.
Cuza>>Ia~i, Romaniadcristea@infoiasi.roNancy IDEDept.
of Computer ScienceVassar CollegePoughkeepsie, NY, USAide@cs.vassar.eduLaurent ROMARYLoria-CNRSVandoeuvre-Les-Nancy,Franceromary @loria.frAbstractIn this paper, we propose a generalizationof Centenng Theory (CT) (Grosz, Joshi,Weinstein (1995)) called Veins Theory(VT), which extends the applicability ofcentering rules from local to globaldiscourse.
A key` facet of the theoryinvolves the idenufication of <<veins>> overdiscourse structure trees such as thosedefined in RST, which delimit domains ofreferential accessibility for each unit in adiscourse.
Once identified, referencechains can be extended across segmentboundaries, thus enabling the applicationof CT over the entire discourse.
Wedescribe the processes by which veins aredefined over discourse structure trees andhow CT can be applied to global discourseby using these chains.
We also define adiscourse <<smoothness>> index which canbe used to compare different discoursestructures and interpretations, and showhow VT can be used to abstract a span oftext in the context of the whole discourse.Finally, we validate our theory byanalyzing examples from corpora ofEnglish, French, and Romanian.IntroductionAs originally postulated, Centering Theory (CT)(Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995)) accountsfor references between adjacent units but isrestricted to local reference (i.e., within segmentboundaries).
Recently, CT-based work hasemerged which considers the relation of globaldiscourse structure and anaphora, all of whichproposes extensions to centering in order toapply it to global discourse.We approach the relationship between globalstructure and anaphora resolution from adifferent, but related, perspective.
We identifydomains of referential accessibility for eachdiscourse unit over discourse structure trees suchas those defined in Rhetorical Structure Theory(RST ; Mann and Thompson (1987)) and showhow CT can then be applied to global discourseby.
using these domains.
As such, our approachdiffers from Walker's (1996), whose account ofreferentialit~, within the cache memory modeldoes not rely on discourse structure, but ratheron cue phrases and matching constraints ogether281with constraints on the size of the cache imposedto reflect the plausible limits of the attentionalspan.
Our approach is closer to that ofPassonneau (1995) and Hahn and Strtibe (1997),who both use a stack-based model of discoursestructure based on Grosz and Sidner's (1986)focus spaces.
Such a model is equivalent o adynamic processing model of a tree-likestructure reflecting the hierarchical nesting ofdiscourse segments, and thus has significantsimilarities to discourse structure trees producedby RST (see Moser and Moore (1996)).However, using the RST notion of nuclearity,we go beyond previous work by revealing a"hidden" structure in the discourse tree, whichwe call veins, that enables us to determine thereferential accessibility domain for eachdiscourse unit and ultimately to apply CTglobally, without extensions to CT or addltionalOata structures.In this paper, we describe Veins Theory (VT) byshowing how veins are defined over discoursestructure trees, and how CT can be applied toglobal discourse by using them.
We usecentering transitions (Brennan, Friedman andPollard (1987)) to define a <<smoothness>> index,which is used to compare different discoursestructures and interpretations.
Because veinsdefine the domains of referential ccess for eachdiscourse unit, we further demonstrate how VTmay` be potentially used to determine the<<minimal>> parts o ta  text required to resolvereferences m a given utterance or, moregenerally, to understand it out of the context ofthe entire discourse.
Finally, we validate ourtheory by analyzing examples from corpora ofEnglish, French, and Romanian.1 The vein conceptWe define veins over discourse structure trees ofthe kind used in RST.
Following that theory, weconsider the basic units of a discourse to be non-overlapping spans of text (i.e., sharing nocommon text), usually reduced to a clause andincluding a single predicate; and we assume thatvarious rhetorical-, cohesive, and coherencerelations hold between individual units or groupsof units.
'i Note that unlike RST, Veins Theory (VT) is notconcerned with the type of relations which holdWe represent discourse structures as binarytrees, where terminal nodes represent discourseunits and non-terminal nodes represent discourserelations.
A polarity is established among thechildren of a relation, which identifies at leastone node, the nucleus, considered essential forthe writer's purpose; non-nuclear nodes, whichinclude spans o f  text that increase understandingbut are not essential to the writer s purpose arecalled satellites.Vein expressions defined over a discourse treeare sub-sequences of the sequence of unitsmaking up the discourse.
In our discussion, thefollowing notations are used:?
each terminal node (leaf node, discourse unit)has an attached label;?
mark(x) is a function that takes a string ofsymbols x and returns each symbol in xmarked in some way (e.g., with parentheses);?
simpl(x) is a function that eliminates allmarked symbols from its argument, if theyexist; e.g.
simpl(a(bc)d(e))=ad;?
seq(x, y) is a se.quencing function that takes asmput two non-intersectmg strings of terminalnode labels, x and y, and returns thatpermutation of x/y (x concatenated with y) thatis given by the left to right reading of thesequence of labels in x and y on the terminalfrontier of the tree.
The function maintains theparentheses, if they exist, and seq(nil, y) = y.Heads1.
The head of a terminal node is its label.2.
The head of a non-terminal node is theconcatenation of the heads of its nuclearchildren.Vein expressions1.
The vein expression of the root is its head.2.
For each nuclear node whose parent nodehas vein v, the vein expression is:?
if the node has a left non-nuclear siblingwith head h, then seq(mark(h), v);?
otherwise, v.3.
For each non-nuclear node of head h whoseparent node has vein v the vein expression is:?
if the node is the left child ot i ts  parent,then seq(h, v);?
otherwise, seq(h,.simpl(v)).Note that the computation of heads is bottom-up,while that of veins is top-down.Consider example 1:1.
Accord ing  to engineer ing lore,2.
the late Ermal C. Fraze,3.
founder of Dayton Rel iable Tool &Manufactur ing  Company in Ohio,2a.
came up with  a pract ica l  idea forthe pop-top l id3.
after at tempt ing wi th  halt ingsuccess to open a beer can on thebumper  of his car.The structure of this discourse fragment is givenin Figure 1.
The central gray line traces theamong discourse units, but considers only thetopological structure and the nuclear/satellite status(see below) of discourse units.282principal vein of the tree, which starts at the rootand descends along the nuclear nodes.
Auxiliaryveins are attached to the principal vein.
The veinexpressions corresponding to each node indicateits domain of accessibility, as defined in thefollowing section.
Accordingly, in this example,unit 1 is accessible from unit 2, but not unit 3.2 Accessibi l i tyThe domain of accessibility of a unit is definedas the string of units appearing in its veinexpression and prefixing that unit itself.More formally, for each terminal node u, ifvein(u) is its vein, then accessibility from u isgiven by acc(u) = pref(u, unmark(vein(u)),where:vein is the function that computes the vein;unmark(x) is a function that removes themarkers from all symbols of its argument;?
pref is a function that retains the prefix of thesecond argument up to and including the firstargument (e.g., if a and 13 are strings of labelsand u is a label, pref(u, aufl) = ocu,Conjecture CI: References from a given unitare possible only in its domain of accessibility.In particular, we can say the following:1.
In most cases, if B is a unit and beB is areferential expression, then either b directlyrealizes a center that appears for the firsttime in the discourse, or it refers back toanother center realized by a referentialexpression aeA, such that Aeacc(B).
2 Suchcases instantiate direct references.2.
If (1) is not applicable, then if A, B, and Care units, ceC is a referential expression thatrefers to beB, and B is not on the vein of C.(i.e., it is not visible from C), then there is anitem aeA, where A is a unit on the commonvein of B and C, such that both b and c referto a.
In this case we say that c is an indirectreference to a J3.
If neither (1) nor (2) is applicable, then thereference in C can be understood without hereferee, as if the corresponding entity wereintroduced in the discourse for the first time.Such references are inferential references.Note that VT is applicable even when thedivision into units ~s coarser than in ourexamples.
For instance, Example 1 in its entiretycould be taken to comprise a single unit; if itappeared in the context of a larger discourse, itwould still be possible to.compute its veins(although, of course, the veins would likely beshorter because there are fewer units toconsider).
It can be proven formally (Cristea,2 If a and b are referential expressions, where thecenter (directly) realized by b is the same as the one(directly) realized by a, or where it is a role of thecenter (directly) realized by a, we will say that brefers (back) to a, or b is a bridge reference to a.3 On the basis of their common semanticrepresentations.Figure 1: Tree structure and veins for Example 1H=2V=2H=IV=I 2H=2H---4V=2 4H=2V=(1) 2H=2V=(1) 22 sees If1998) that when passing from a finer granularityto a coarser one the accessibility constraints arestill obeyed.
This observation is important inrelation to other approaches that search forstability with respect to granularity (see forinstance, Walker, 1996).3 Global coherenceThis section shows how VT can predict theinference load for processing lobal discourse,thus providing an account of discourse coherence.A corollary of Conjecture C1 is that CT can beapplied along the accessibility domains defined bytile veins of the discourse structure, rather than tosequentially placed units within a single discoursesegment.
Therefore, in VT reference domains forany node may include units that are sequentiallydistant in the text stream, and thus long-distancereferences (including those requiring "return-pops" (Fox, 1987) over segments that containsyntactically feasible referents) can be accountedfor.
Thus our model provides a description ofglobal discourse cohesion, which significantlyextends the model of local cohesion provided byCT.CT defines a set of transition types for discourse(Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995); Brennan,Friedman and Pollard (1987)).
A smoothnessscore for a discourse segment can be computed byattaching an elementary score to each transitionbetween sequential units according to Table 2,summing up the scores for each transition in theentire segment, and dividing the result by thenumber of transitions in the segment.
Thisprovides an index of the overall coherence of thesegment.A global CT smoothness score can be computedby adding up the scores for the sequence of unitsmaking up the whole discourse, and dividing theresult by the total number of transitions (numberof units minus one).
In general, this score will beslightly higher than the average of the scores forthe individual segments, since accidentaltransitions at segment boundaries might alsooccur.
Analogously, a global VT smoothness coreH=3V=2 33 doesn' t  see 1can be computed using accessibility domains todetermine transitions rather than sequential units.Table 2: Smoothness cores for transitionsCENTER CONTINUATION 4CENTER RETAINING 3CENTER SHIFTING (SMOOTH) 2CENTER SHIFTING (ABRUPT) 1NO Cb 0Conjecture C2: The global smoothness core ofa discourse when computed following VT is atleast as high as the score computed followingCT.That is, we claim that long-distance transitionscomputed using VT are systematically smootherthan accidental transitions at segment boundaries.Note that this conjecture is consistent with resultsreported by authors like Passonneau (1995) andWalker (1996), and provides an explanation fortheir results.We can also consider anaphora resolution usingCb's computed using accessibility domains.Because aunit can simultaneously occur in severalaccessibility domains, unification can be appliedusing the Cf list of one unit and those of possiblyseveral subsequent (although not necessarilyadjacent) units.
A graph of Cb-unifications can bederived, in which each edge of the graphrepresents a Cb computation and therefore aunification process.4 Minimal  textThe notion that text summaries can be created byextracting the nuclei from RST trees is wellknown in the literature (Mann and Thompson,(1988)).
Most recently, Marcu (1997) hasdescribed a method for text summarization basedon nuclearity and selective retention ofhierarchical fragments.
Because his salient unitscorrespond to heads in VT, his results arepredicted in our model.
That is, the union of headsat a given level in the tree provides a summary ofthe text at a degree of detail dependent on thedepth of that level.In addition to summarizing entire texts, VT can beused to summarize a given unit or sub-tree of that283text.
In effect, we reverse the problem addressedby text summarization efforts so far: instead ofattempting to summarize an entire discourse at agiven level of detail, we select a single span oftext and abstract the minimal text required tounderstand this span alone when considered in thecontext of the entire discourse.
This provides akind of focused abstraction, enabling theTable 5: Verifying conjecture C1extraction of sub-texts from larger documents.Because vein expressions for each node include allof the nodes in the discourse within its domain ofreference, they identify exactly which parts of thediscourse tree are required in order to understandand resolve references for the unit or subtreebelow that node.Source No.
of units Total no.of refsEnglish 62 97French 48 110Romanian 66176 Total111318Table 6: Verifying Conjecture C2Direct on the vein(case 1)75 77.3%98 89.1%104 93.7%277 87.1%Indirect on the vein(case 2)14 14.4%11 10.0%2 1.8%27 8.5 %Inference(case 3)5 5.2%1 0.9%5 4.5%11 3.5%How many obey CI94 96.9%110 100.0%111 100.0%315 99.1%Source No.
of CT Score Average CT score per VT score Average VT scoretransitions transition per transitionEnglish 59 76 1.25 84 1.38French 47 109 2.32 116 2.47Romanian 65 142 2.18 152 2.34Total 173 327 1.89 352 2.035.
Corpus analysisBecause of the lack of large-scale corporaannotated for discourse, our study currentlyinvolves only a small corpus of English,Romanian, and French texts.
The corpus wasprepared using an encoding scheme fordiscourse structure (Cristea, Ide, and Romary,1998) based on the Corpus Encoding Standard(CES) (Ide (1998)).
The following texts wereincluded in our analysis:.
three short English texts, RST-analyzed byexperts and subsequently annotated forreference and Cf lists by the authors;?
a fragment from de Balzac s <<Le P~re Goriot>>(French), previously annotated for co-reference(Bruneseaux and Romary (1997)); RST and Cflists annotation made by the authors;?
a fragment from Alexandru Mitru's<<Legendele Olimpului>> 4 .
(Romanian);structure, reference, and Cf hsts annotated byone of the authors.The encoding marks referring expressions, linksbetween referring expressions (co-reference orfunctional), units, relations between units (ifknown), nuclearity, and the units' Cf lists interms of refemng expressions.
We havedeveloped a program 5 that does the following:builds the tree structure of units and relationsbetween them, adds to each referring expressionthe index of the unit it occurs in, computes theheads and veins for all nodes in the structure,determines the accessibility domains of theterminal nodes (units), counts the number ofdirect and indirect references.Hand-analysis was then applied to determinewhich references are inferential and therefore donot conform to Conjecture C1, as summarized inTable 5.
Among the 318 references in the text,only three references not conforming toConjecture C1 were found (all of them appear inone of the English texts).
However, if theBACKGROUND relation is treated as bi-nuclear, ~all three of these references becomedirect.To verify Conjecture C2, Cb's and transitionswere first marked following the sequential orderof the units (according to classical CT), and asmoothness score was computed.
Then,following VT, accessibility domains were usedto determine maximal chains of accessibilitystrings, Cb's and transitions were re-computedfollowing these strings, and a VT smoothnessscore was similarly computed.
The results aresummarized in Table 6.
They show that the scorefor VT is better than that forCT in all cases, thusvalidating.
Conjecture C2.An investigation of the number of long-distanceresolutions yielded the results shown in Table 7.Such resolutions could not have been predictedusing CT.Table 7: Long distance reference resolutionSource No of long distance No of new referentsCb unifications foundEnglish 6 2French 11 1Romanian 18 34 ~The Legends of Olimp~5 Written in Java.6 Other bi-nuclear relations are JOIN andSEQUENCE.2846.
Discussion and related workVT is not a model of anaphora resolution; rather,its accessibility domains provide a means toconstrain the resolution of anaphora.
Thefundamental ssumption underlying VT is thatan inter-unit reference is possible only if the twounits are in a structural relation with oneanother, even if they are distant from oneanother in the text stream.
Furthermore, inter-unit-references are primarily to nuclei ratherthan to satellites, reflecting the intuition thatnuclei assert he writer's mare ideas and providethe main <<threads>> of the discourse (Mann andThompson \[1988\].
This Is shown m thecomputation of veins over (binary) discoursetrees where each pair of descendants of a parentnode are either both nuclear or the nuclear nodeis on the left (a left-polarized tree).
In such trees,any reference from a nuclear unit must be toentities contained in linguistic expressionsappearing in previously occurring nuclei(although perhaps not any nucleus).
On the otherhand, satellites are dependent on their nuclei fortheir meaning and hence may refer to entitiesintroduced within them.
The definition of veinsformalizes these relationship, s. Given themapping of Grosz and Sidners (1986) stack-based model of discourse structure to RSTstructure trees outlined by Moser and Moore(1996), the domains of referentiality defined forleft-polarized trees using VT are consistent withthose defined using the stack-based model (e.g.Passonneau (1995), Hahn and Strtibe (1997)).However, in cases where the discourse structureis not left-polarized, VT provides a more naturalaccount of referential ccessibility than the stack-based model.
In non left-polarized trees, at leastone satellite precedes its nucleus in the discourseand is therefore its left sibling in the binarydiscourse tree.
The vein definition formalizes theintuition that in a sequence of units A B C, whereA and C are satellites of B, B can refer to entitiesin A (its left satellite), but the subsequent rightsatellite, C, cannot refer to A due to theinterposition of nuclear unit B.
In stack-basedapproaches to referentiality, such configurationspose problems: because B dominates 7 A it mustappear below it on the stack, even though it isprocessed after A.
Even if the processingdifficulties are overcome, this situation leads tothe postulation of cataphoric references when asatellite precedes its nucleus, which is counter-intuitive.AcknowledgementsOur thanks go to Daniel Marcu who pointedsome weak parts and provided RST analysis andto the TELR1 program who facilitated the secondmeeting of the three authors.7 We use Grosz and Sidner's (1986) terminology here,but note the equivalence of dominance in G&S andnucleus/satellite relations in RST pointed out byMoser and Moore (1996).285ReferencesBrennan, S.E., Walker Friedman, M. and Pollard, C.J.(1987).
A Centering Approach to Pronouns.Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of theACL, Stanford, 155-162.Bruneseaux Florence and Laurent Romary (1997).Codage des Rfffrences et corfffrences darts lesDialogues Homme-machine.
ProceeCingsof A CH/ALLC, Kingston (Ontario).Cristea, D. (1998).
Formal proofs in IncrementalDiscourse Processing and Veins Theory, ResearchReport TR98-2 Dept.
of Computer Science,University "A.I.Cuza", Ia~i.Cristea, D., Ide, N. and Romary, L. (1998).
Marking-up Multiple Views of a Text: Discourse andReference, Proceedings of the First InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation, Granada, Spain.Fox, B.
(1987).
Discourse Structure and Anaphora.Written and Conversational English.
no 48 inCambridge Studies in Linguistics, CambridgeUniversity Press.Grosz, B.J., Joshi, A.K.
and Weinstein, S. (1995)Centering: A framework for modeling the localcoherence ofdiscourse.
Computational Linguistics,12(2), 203-225.Grosz, B. and Sidner, C. (1986).
Attention, Intentionand the Structure of Discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 12, 175-204.Hahn, U. and Striibe, M. (1997).
CenteredSegmentation: Scaling Up the Centering Model toGlobal Discourse Sttructure.
Proceedings ofEACL/ACL97, Madrid, 104-11.Ide, N. (1998) Corpus Encoding Standard: EncodingPractices and a Data Aarchitecture for LinguisticCorpora.
Proceedings of the First InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation, Granada, Spain.
See alsohttp:llwww.cs.vassar.edu/CESI.Mann, W.C., Thompson S.A. (1988).
Rhetoricalstructure theory: A theory of text organization,Text, 8:3, 243-281.Marcu, D. (1997).
The rhetorical parsing,summarisation and generation of natural anguagetexts, Ph.D. thesis, Dept.
of Computer Science,University of Toronto.Moser, M. and Moore, J.
(1996).
Toward a Synthesisof Two Accounts of Discourse Structure.Computational Linguistics, 22:3,409-20.Passonneau, R.J. (1995).
Using Centering to RelaxGricean Informational Constraints on DiscourseAnaphoric Noun Phrases, research report, Bellcore.Walker, M.A.
(1996).
The Cash Memory Model.Computational Linguistics,22:2, 55-64.Walker, M.A.
; Joshi, A.K., Prince, E.F. (1997).Centering in Naturally-Occurring Discourse: AnOverview.
In Walker, M.A.
; Joshi, A.K., Prince,E.F.
(eds.
): Centering in Discourse, OxfordUniversity Press.
