A Generative Lexicon Perspective for Adjectival ModificationPatr ick Saint -Diz ierIRIT-CNRS, Universit6 Paul sabatier118 route de Narbonne F-31062 Toulouse Cedex Francestdizier~irit, frAbst rac tThis paper presents a semantic interpretation ofadjecti-val modification in terms of the Generative Lexicon.
Ithighlights the elements which can be borrowed from theGL and develops limitations and extensions.
We showhow elements of the Qualia structure can be incorpo-rated into semantic omposition rules to make explicitthe semantics of the combination adjective + noun.1 AimsInvestigations within the generative perspective aimat modelling, by means of a small number of rules,principles and constraints, linguistic phenomena ta high level of abstraction, level which seems to beappropriate for research on multi-linguism and lan-guage learning.Among works within the generative perspective,one of the most innovative is the Generative Lexi-con (GL) (Pustejovsky 91, 95) which introduces anabstract model opposed to sense enumeration lexi-cons.
The GL is based (1) on the close cooperationof three lexical semantic structures: the argumentstructure, the aspectual structure and the Qualiastructure (with four roles: Telic, Agentive, Consti-tutive and Formal), (2) on a detailed type theory anda type coercion inference rule and (3) on a refinedtheory of compositionality.
The Generative Lexiconinvestigates the problem of polysemy and of the mul-tiplicity of usages from a core sense of a lexeme andshows how these usages can be analyzed in termsof possible type shiftings w.r.t, the type expectedby the core usage.
Type shifting is modelled by aspecific inference mechanism: type coercion.In this paper, the following points are addressed:?
Generative systems require a clear analysis ofthe notions of word-sense and of sense delimita-tion.
Depending on the strategy adopted (e.g.large number of narrow senses for a lexeme asin WordNet, or very few but large senses as inmany Al works), the nature and the scope ofgenerative operations may be very different.?
The Qualia structure is a complex structure,quite difficult to describe, in spite of evidenceof its existence, in particular for the Telic role,(explored e.g.
in the EuroWordNet project, theEuropean WordNet).
Qualias are well-designedand useful for nouns, but look more artificial forother lexical categories.
We show that it is thetelic role of nouns which is the most useful.
Wealso show how the internal structure of this rolecan be made more precise and its use more re-liable and accurate by means of types and howit can be partitioned by means of types into on-tological domains for modelling some forms ofmetaphors.?
Types are not sufficiently 'constrained' to ac-count for the constraints holding, for eachpredicate, on the different sense/usage varia-tions they may be subject to.
We show thatan underspecified Lexical Conceptual Structure(LCS) (Jackendoff 90) is more appropriate be-cause of its ability to represent underspecifiedmeaning and therefore the polymorphism ofsenses in the GL, because of the relevance andlow-granularity of its primitives (that we haveslightly enhanced).?
Elements of the Qualia structure can be in-corporated into semantic composition rules tomake explicit the semantics of the combinationpredicate-argument, instead of developing lexi-cal redundancy rules.?
A rule-based approach (also used by otherauthors such as (Copestake and Briscoe 95),(Ostler and Atkins 92), (Numberg and Zaenen79)) is contrasted with the Qualia-based ap-proach to deal with sense shiftings and in partic-ular selective binding, metaphors (that the GLcannot resolve a priori) and metonymies.
An-other view is presented in (Jackendoff 97) withthe principle of enriched composition, which isin fact quite close to our view, but restrictedto a few specific coercion situations (aspectual,mass-count, picture, begin-enjoy).?
The rules for type shifting we present here arenot lexical rules, as in (Copestake and Briscoe95), but they are part of the seinantic omposi-1143tion system, which makes them more general.This paper is devoted to adjectival modification(see also (Bouillon 97, 98)).
The goal is to studythe use and impact of the Qualia structure of themodified noun in the determination of the semanticrepresentation of the association Noun + Adjective.To illustrate this study, we have chosen one of themost polysemic French adjectives: bon (good), whichcovers most of the main situations.
Other adjectives,often cited in the GL literature, such as ~ad, fast,difficult or noisy have been studied and confirm thisanalysis.
We observed also many similarities withinsemantic families of adjectives.2 Conceptua l  versus  Lex icograph icAna lys i s  o f  Lex ica l  I temsIn this section, we outline the differences but also thecooperation between conceptual and lexicographicanalysis of the semantics of lexical items to builda lexicon suitable for the development of generativedevices.2.1 Ad jec t ives  in techn ica l  textsWe have considered a sample of technical texts inFrench from various origins and used a simple tag-ging and extraction system developed for our needs.We have considered a total of 386 pages of text, witha total of 193 146 word occurences, among which,we have 14 598 occurences of adjectives.
Theseoccurences correspond to 754 different adjectives,among which 720 are restrictive adjectives.
We willonly consider this latter set.A small number of adjectives appear frequently:Fig.
1 Adjective frequenciesinterval nb.
of adjectives concerned> 300 5> 300 and --< 150 12> 150 and --< 50 81This means that 98 adjectives appear relativelyfrequently in texts, i.e.
only about 13.6% of the to-tal.
In terms of occurences, these adjectives cover11887 occurences, i.e.
about 81% of the occurences.Adjectives from eight main 'semantic' families ap-pear frequently.
These families do not correspondexactly to those defined by (Dixon 91) (see also anintroduction in (Raskin et al 95)), which look toovague (figures have been rounded up or down to theclosest integer):Fig.
2 Adjective semantic familiesName example freq.
(%)temporal actuel, pass6 10evaluative bon, grand, cher 24locational central, externe 10aspectual courant, final 8technical chimique 17nationalities international 3shapes rond, rectangulaire 4society, culture economique, social 6others 18In terms of 'polysemic power', evaluative, loca-tional, and shapes are the families which are themost polysemic, with a ratio of an average of 3.8senses per adjective.
Nationalities, technical and as-pectual adjectives are much less polysemic.2.2 A conceptua l  ana lys i s  o f  ad jec t ivesThe GL approach requires a conceptual analysis ofadjectives in order to focus oil a relatively smallnumber of senses.
The idea is to isolate generic con-ceptual 'behaviors', while taking also into accountthe constraints on linguistic realizations as in thelexicographic approach.The principle that we attempt at validating is todefine a 'deep' LCS representation for each predica-tive lexical item, which is generic enough to accomo-date variations within a sense and precise enough tobe meaningful and discriminatory w.r.t, other word-senses.
To be able to represent sense variations in anefficient and reliable way, the variable or underspec-ified elements hould be 'low level' elements uch asfunctions or paths.
Semantic fields may also be al-tered, e.g.
going from location to psychological orto epistemological (Pinker 93).
Such an approach isbeing validated on various semantic families of verbs.The variable elements eem to belong to variousontologies (a crucial topic under intense investiga-tion), such as the ontology of events (active, sleep-ing, terminated, etc.
), of people's quilities, etc.2.3 Mean ings  of  bonIn this short document, for the purpose of illustra-tion, let us consider the adjective bon (correspondingquite well to good), which is one of the most pol-ysemic adjective: 25 senses identified in WordNet(e.g.
(Fellbaum 93)).
In fact, bon can be combinedwith almost any noun in French, and as (Katz 66)pointed out, 9ood would need as many different read?ings as there are functions for objects.We have identified the following senses and sensevariations (metaphors and metonymies in particular,expressed as in (Lakoff 80)):1.
Idea of a good working of a concrete objectw.r.t, what it has been designed for: un bontournevis, de bons yeux (good screw-driver, good1144eyes).
Metaphors abound: e.g.
: 'communica-tion acts as tools': une bonne plaisanterie/miseau point (a good joke), ' function for tool'  (unboa odorat), 'paths as tools' ( a good road).
1Metonymies are rather unusual since if X is apart of Y, a good X does not entail a good Y 22.
Positive evaluation of moral, psychological,physical or intellectual qualities in humans:bonne personne, boa musician, (good persoa, goodmusician).
The basic sense concerns professionsand related activites or humans as a whole: itis the ability of someone to realize somethingfor professions, and, for humans, the high levelof their moral qualities (an enumeration call begiven or a kind of higher-order, typed expres-sion).This second sense could be viewed as alarge metaphor  of the first, with a structure-preserving transposit ion to a different ontology:from tools to professional or moral skills.There are some 'l ight' metaphors uch as: 'so-cial positions or ranks as professions' (a goodboss/father/friend / citizen), and a large num-ber of metonymies: ' image for person, image be-ing a part of a person' (a good reputation), 'toolfor profession' (a good scalpel), 'place for pro-fession' ( a good restaurant).
These metaphorshave a good degree of systematicity.3.
Intensifier of one or more properties of the noun,producing an idea of pleasure and satisfaction(this is different for sense 5) 3:noun(+edible):  good meal/dish/taste = tasty,with metonymies uch as 'container tbr con-tainee' ( a good bottle/glass),noun(+fine-art) :  good film/book/painting =valuable, with metonymies uch as 'physicalsupport for contents'  (good CD),noun(+smel l ing):  good odor,noun(+psycho) :  good relation/experiencenoun(+human relations): good neighbours.Note that bon can only be used with neutral orpositive nouns, we indeed do not have in French*good ennemies, *good humidity with the senseoutlined here.4.
Quantif ication applied to measures or to quan-tities: o good meter, a good liter, o goodlIn the combination oun + adjective," the norm is theelement hat undergo the metaphor.
The adjective being apredicate, it is its relation to the noun it modifies which ismetaphorical, similarly to the relation verb-noun.
The se-mantics of the noun remains a priori unaltered.2This needs refinements: there are some weak forms ofupward inheritance in the part-of relation: e.g.
if the body ofa car is red, then the car is said to be red.3Norms are being defined for about 600 top-most nodes ofa general purpose ontology in different projects and researchgroups (e.g.
NMSU, ISI, Eagles EEC project), they will beused as soon as available.amount/salary, a good wind.
In this case, goodmeans a slightly more than the uni t /measureindicated or above the average (for terms whichare not measure units such as wind or salary).This sense being quite different since it is basi-cally a quantifier, it won't  be studied hereafter.5.
Idea of exactness, accuracy, correctness,validity, freshness, etc.
: un bon raison-nement/calcul = exact, accurate (a good deduc-tion/computation), good note~ticket = valid, agood meat = fresh or eatable, a good use = ap-propriate, good knowledge = efficient, large andof good quality.
The meaning of bon is there-fore underdetermined.
Depending on the noun,the semantics of bon is slightly different, this isnot really a case of co-composit ion.
It is the se-mantic type of the noun and that  of the selectedpredicate in the telic role of the noun which de-termine the meaning of the adjective in this par-ticular NP.
We call this phenomenon, by com-parison with selective binding, se lec t ive  pro -jec t ion ,  because the meaning is projected fromthe noun's telic role.
Sense 5 is substantial ly dif-ferent from sense 1: it is basically boolean (e.g.exact or not), there is no idea of tool, functionor even activity.Bon appears in a large number of fixed or semi-fixedforms such as: le boa godt, le bon sans, le boa temps,une bonne giffle.Almost the same behavior is observed for all eval-uative adjectives such as excellent, terrific, bad orlousy in French.
For example, for mauvais (bad),senses 1, 2 and 3 are identical, sense 4 is only ap-plicable to amounts (mauvais alaire), not to unitsand sense 5 is almost identical, it conveys the ideaof erroneous deduction, invalid ticket, bad use androtting meat.
Note that in WordNet,  bad has only14 senses, whereas good has 25 senses, with no clearjustification.2.4 A compar i son  w i th  WordNetWe have carried out a comparison of our conceptualanalysis with the lexicographic analysis in ~VordNet.We have compared manual ly a subset of 54 adjec-tives among the above mentioned frequently usedadjectives.
Among these adjectives, 30 are poly-senfic in our approach while 44 belong to severalsynsets in WordNet:Fig.
3 A comparison with WordNet \]criterion (1) (2)total number of senses found 114 256average nb.
of senses/item 2.11 4.9(1): Conceptual approach, (2) WordNet 1.6.
22of our descriptions are close to WordNet (for adjec-tives which are not much polysemic) while 32 differ1145largely (for highly polysemic adjectives), for whichour approach identifies much less senses.2.5 Underspec i f i ca t lon  versus  po lysemyEach of the senses of bon has many facets and inter-pretations depending on the noun it modifies.
Asfor verbs or nouns (Busa 97), polymorphic typesare used to represent the semantics of the expectednouns, viewed as arguments of the adjective predi-cate.
The semantic representation associated witha sense is therefore underspecified and tuned to re-flect this polymorphism.
The scope of underspec-ified elements must however be bounded and pre-cisely defined by 'lexical' types and by additionalconstraints.
The generative xpansion of underspec-ified fields can be defined from lexical items using afix-point semantics approach (Saint-Dizier 96).2.6 Towards  an automat ic  acqu is i t ion  ofconceptua l  descr ip t ionsSome on-line resources and dictionaries may effi-ciently contribute to this task.
We have consid-ered several mono- and bi-lingual dictionaries in or-der to evaluate convergences.
Only those struc-tured on a conceptual basis are worth considering.Among them, the Harrap's German-French dictio-nary is very nicely structured in a conceptual per-spective, providing translations on an accurate se-mantic basis.
Senses are slightly more expandedthan in the GL approach to account for translationvariations, but closely related senses can be groupedto form the senses defined above.Another source of knowledge for English isCorelex 4 which is just being made accessible.
Itcontains word definitions specifically designed forthe GL.
Its evaluation is about to start.3 Generat ive  Dev ices  and  Semant icCompos i t ionLet us now analyze from a GL point of view themeanings of the adjective bon.In (Pustejovsky 95), to deal with the compoundadjective+noun, a predicate in the telic of the nounis considered.
For example, fast, modifying a nounsuch as typist, is represented as follows:Ae \[type'(e,x) A fast(e)\]where e denotes an event.
This formula says that theevent of typing is fa~t.
A similar representation isgiven for long, in a long record.
This approach is ap-propriate to represent temporal notions in a coarse-grained way, i.e.
the event is said to be fast (withe.g.
potential inferences on its expected uration)or long.
But this approach is not viable for both, andmany other adjectives with little or no temporal di-mension.
In:4 available at:www.cs.brandeis.edu/paulb/CoreLex/corelex.|atnd)~e \[type'(e, x) A good(e)\]it is not the typing event which is 'good' but theway the typing has been performed (certainly fast,but also with no typos, good layout, etc.).
A preciseevent should not be considered in isolation, but therepresentation should express that, in general, some-one types well, allowing exceptions (some average orbad typing events).
This involves a quantification,more or less explicit, over typing events of x. Finally,bon being polysemous, a single representation is notsufficient o accomodate all the senses.As introduced in section 1, the semantic represen-tation framework we consider here is the LCS.
Thenature of its primitives and its low-level granularityseem to be appropriate for our current purpose.
Un-derdetermined structures are represented by a typed,k-calculus.3.1 sense 1: Bon  = that  works  wellThis first sense applies to any noun of type tool,machine or technique: a good car, a good screw-driver.
The semantic representation of bon requiresa predicate from the telic role of the Qualia struc-ture of the noun.
It is the set (potentially infinite)of those predicates that characterizes the polymor=phism.
We have here a typical situation of selectivebinding (Pustejovsky 91), where the representationof the adjective is a priori largely underspecified.
Letus assume that any noun which can be modified bybon has a telic role in which the main function(s) ofthe object is described (e.g.
execute programmes fora computer, run for a car 5), then the semantics ofthe compound adjective + noun can be defined asfollows:Let N be a noun of semantic type a., and of Qualia:\[..., Telic: T, ...\]where T denotes the set of predicates associated withthe telic role of the noun N. Let Y the variable as-sociated with N and let us assume that T is a list ofpredicates of the form Fi(_,-).
Then the LCS-basedrepresentation f bon is:A Y : a, )~ Fi, \[~tate BE+cm, r,+,dent(\[thin9 Y \],\[+p~op ABIL ITY  - TO(Fi(Y, _)) = high \])\] .which means that the entity denoted by the nounworks well, expressed by the evaluation functionABILITY-TO and the value 'high'.
This type oflow-level function abounds in the LCS, this princi-ple is introduced in (Jackendoff 97).
Note that tilesecond argument of the predicate Fi does not need tobe explicit (we use the Prolog notation '_' for thesepositions).The Qualia allows us to introduce in a direct waya pragmat ic  or  in terpretat ive  d imens ion  viathe instanciation of Fi (_, _).5Less prototypical predicates can also be considered, e.g.comfort or security for a car, which are properties probablydescribed in the constitutive role of the Qualia of car.1146The constant 'high' can be replaced by a moreaccurate representation, e.g.
'above average', butthe problem of evaluating a functionality remainsopen.
More generally, the introduction of low levelfunctions, such as ABILITY-TO, and specific values,such as 'low', should be introduced in a principledway, following the definition of ontologies of differentdomains, e.g.
action, intensities, etc.
This is quitechallenging, but necessary for any accurate semanticframework.Note finally that instead of quantifying overevents, bon is described as a state: the function-alities of the object remain good, even when it isnot used effectively.
If several functionalities are atstake, we may have a conjunction or a more complexcombination of functions Fi.From a compositional point of view, the combina-tion Adjective + Noun is treated as follows, whereR is the semantic representation f the adjective, T,the contents of the telic role of the Qualia of thenoun N of type o, r, a particular element of T, andY, the variable associated with the noun:sem-composition (Adj (R),Noun (Qualia(T)) =)~Y : c~, 3F/(Y, _) E T,(N(Y )  A R(Y)(Fi(Y,_))).The open position in R(Y) is instanciated by ~3-reduction.
The selection of Fi is simple: for basictools, there is probably only one predicate in theQualia (screw-driver -+ screw), for more complexnouns, there is a,, ambiguity which is reflected bythe non-deterruilfistic choice of Fi, but probably or-ganized with preferences, which should be added inthe Qualia.
\[t is the constraint on the type of Ythat restricts the application of that semantic om-position rule.
This notation is particularly simpleand convenient.Metaphors are treated in a direct way: the con-straint on the type of Y can be enlarged to:)~Y : ~ A o' , metaphor(13, ~)and the remainder of the semantic omposition ruleand semantic formula remains unchanged.
We have,for example:metaphor (communicat ion  - act, tool) (joke).metaphor (communicat ion  - path, tool) (road).which is paraphrased as 'communication pathviewed as a tool'.We have evaluated that, in French, there are about12 frequent forms of metaphors for this sense.
Thestudy of this first sense suggests that the introduc-tion of a hierarchy of preferences would be a usefulextension to the Telic role, reflecting forms of proto-typicality among predicates.3.2 Sense 2: Bon  res t r i c ted  to cogni t ive ormora l  qual i t iesAnother seuse o\[' bon modifies nouns of type pro-fession or human.
The treatment is the same asin the above section, but the selection of the pred-icate(s) r = F i (X ,Y )  in the telic of the noun'squalia must be restricted to properties related tothe moral behavior (makes-charity, has-compassion,has-integrity) when the noun is a person; and tosome psychological ttitudes and cognitive capabil-ities when the noun denotes a profession (e.g.
agood composer).
Alternatively, some of these prop-erties could be found in the constitutive role (ap-proximately the part-of relation), if properties canbe parts of entities.The typing of the predicates in the Qualia rolescan be done in two ways, (1) by means of labels iden-tifying the different facets of a role, as in (Bergler91) for report verbs, but these facets are often quitead'hoc and hard to define, or (2) by means of typesdirectly associated with each predicate.
These typescan, for example, directly reflect different verb se-mantic classes as those defined in (Levin 93) or(Saint-Dizier 96) on a syntactic basis, or the ma-jor ontological classes of WordNet or EuroWordNetand their respective subdivisions.
This solution ispreferable, since it does not involve ally additionaldevelopment of the Telic role, but simply the adjunc-tion of types from a separate, pre-defined ontology.The WordNet or EuroWordNet ypes also seem tobe quite easy to handle and well-adapted to the phe-nomena we model.
This remains to be validated ona large scale.An LCS representation for this sense of bon is, as-suming the following types for Fi:)~ Y : human, F, : action - re la ted-  to -profession v moral - behavior, Y : a.\[..,a,?
BE+char,+ia~,,(\[,h,,,9 Y \],\[+prop AB IL ITY  - TO{F~(Y, _)) = high \])\] .When several predicates are at stake, a set ofFi(Y,-)  can be considered in the representation, orthe statement is ambiguous.Metonymies uch as a good scalpel are resolved bythe general rule: 'tools for professions'.
This infor-mation could be in a knowledge base or, alterna-tively, it can be infered from the Telic role of thetool: any instrument has a predicate in its telic rolethat describes its use: the type of the first argumentof the predicate is directly related to the professionthat uses it.
For example, scalpel has ill its telic role:cut(X : surgeon V biologist, Y : body).When the profession is identified, the standard pro-cedure for determining the meaning of the com-pound can be applied.
Metonymies using the part-ofrelation are quite simple to resolve using the consti-tutive role, as in the GL.3.3 Sense 3: Bon as  all in tens i f ierAnother main role of bon is to emphasize a quality ofthe object denoted by the noun.
As shown in section2, there is a certain action associated with the telic ofthe modified noun that produces a certain pleasure.1147For example, watching a good film entails a certainpleasure.Let us consider again a noun N of type a (e.g.edible object) associated with the variable Y. Theentity (human) undergoing the pleasure is not ex-plicit in the NP, it is represented by X, and includedin the scope of a A-abstraction.
Let F i (X ,  Y )  be thepredicate selected in the telic role of N. The LCSrepresentation is then:AX : human,  Y: a, F i (X ,Y )\[e,~?,u CAUSE(\[ .
.
.
.
, F,(X, Y)\],\[state BE+p~u(\[th,n9 X \],L~t,ee AT+,su(\[+pt,c?
pleasure 1)1)1)\].We have here another form of representation for bon,where Fi is a CAUSE.The term 'pleasure' is an element of an ontologydescribing e.g.
mental attitudes and feelings.
It isrelatively generic and can be replaced by a more pre-cise term, via selective project ion (see below for sense5), depending on the nature of the pleasure.An alternative representation describes a path to-wards the value 'pleasure', giving an idea of progres-sion:XX :human,  Y :a ,  F i (X ,Y )\[ .
.
.
.
, CAUSE( \ [  .
.
.
.
.
t F , (X,  Y)\],\[ .
.
.
.
, GO+~..~(\[,~,.9 X \],\[p~th TOW ARDS+p~u (\[+,,l~ pleasure \])\])\])\].Notice that this sense of bon does not imply anidea of quantity: a good meal does not entail thatthe meal is big, a good temperature does not entailthat the temperature is high, but rather mikl.
Thesemantic omposition rule is similar as in 3.1.The metonymy 'container for containee" (a goodbottle) is resolved by a type shifting on Y. Y lnay beof type fl iff:3 Z : a,  Y : conta iner  A conta iner -  fo r (Y ,  Z) .Inferences are identical for e.g.
a good CD.3,4 Sense  5: Bon  = exact  or  eor reetWe have here a situation of selective projection: theexact meaning of bon is projected from the type ofthe modified noun and the type of the predicate se-lected in the noun's Telic role.For example, if the noun is of type bank - note Vt icket  and the type of the predicate selected in thenoun's Telic role is pay V give - access - to, thenthe meaning of bon is 'valid':XX : bank -- note V ticket,\[,t~t?
BE+?ha~,+,a,,t(\[,hina X 1,L~,o- AT+~h.r,+,a~,.
(\[+.~o~vaUd(X)\])\])\].The constraint, on the type of the telic role is statedin the semantic omposition rule:sea-composition (Adj (R),Noun(X,Qualia(T))) =AX : bank - note v ticket,3Fi(_,_) : pay v give - access - to E T,(N(X) ^ n(x) ) .It is necessary to have both a constraint on thenoun and on the predicate(s) in the telic role: (1)the type of the predicate in the telic role is certainlynot a sufficient constraint , e.g.
every noun's telicrole in which there is the predicate pay cannot becombined with bon with sense 5; (2) the constrainton the type of the noun is also not sufficient, e.g.
amedecine is a kind of food, but we don't  eat it.4 Represent ing  the  core mean ing  ofa word-senseThe work presented here has shown the necessity ofdescribing the semantics of a lexical item at a rel-atively 'deep' level, ill order to make explicit themeaning elements ubject to alterations in the sense.variations hown above.
It turns out, so far, thatthese elements can be represented by LCS primitivesand a few functions and values, assumed to belongto general-purpose, and often commonly-admitted,ontologies.
This remains an assumption since thistype of ontological knowledge is still under devel-opment, but the elements used are relatively simpleand standard.
Besides ontologies, and not very farfrom them, we also find information contained in thenoun's Qualias, but in a less structured way, makingselection more difficult.Core meaning definition requires a good analysisof a word-sense and of its behavior in different con-texts.
This is however not so difficult to elaborateonce the formalism is stabilized.
Also, we noted thatsemantically close words share a lot, making descrip-tions easier.
This is in particular true for verbs.Besides adjectives, we have also studied a numberof different types of verbs, as e.g.
the verb couper(cut), often used as an example in the literature.
Itscore representation would be the following:A I, J \[ .
.
.
.
, CAUSE(\[th,,,9 1 \],\[ .
.
.
.
, aoA(x ,  L.o,~ Y \])\])\].with the following values for the core sense:A = +loc ; X : \[thi,o PART-  OT( J )  \]Y = AWAY - FRO~lA(\[ptace LOCATION - OF( J ) \ ] )For the metaphor: 'to cut a conversation/ a film,etc...', the values for the above variables become:A -= +char, +ident, X= \[ .
.
.
.
t/state J \]Y = AWAY - FROMA(\[prop ACT IVE( J ) \ ] )where ACTIVE(J)  is an elementary property of anontology describing the status of events.
A conver-sation is viewed as a flow which becomes non-active.A similar treatment is observed for other types ofmetaphors, with elliptic forms, such as couper l 'eau /l 'd lectr ic i td / les  crddits, also viewed as flows.
Theproperty AVAILABLE(J) will then be used, whichis at a comparable abstract level in an ontology thanACTIVE(J) .5 Long-d is tance  COlnpos i t iona l i tyThe NP a good meat is related to senses 2 or 5, ittherefore includes in its domain of meanings truc-tures presented in sections 3.2 and 3.4.
Instead of1148choosing one solution solution (a generate and teststrategy), a set can be provided (as in constraintprogramming).
Now, if we have an NP of the form:une viande bonne d consommer, then the parsingof consommer will provoque the selection of sense 5(and subsense 'fresh/consumable' via selective pro-jection) because of the type of consommer.
If, con-versely, we have une viande bonne d, ddguster, then,since d~guster is of type 'eat.enjoy' (a dotted type inthe GL), sense 2 is selected.
The space of meaningsis restricted when additional information is found.A second case involves default reasoning (as in(Pernelle 98)).
In un bon couteau pour sculpter (agood knife to carve), by default, the action that theknife performs well is that protypically found in itstelic role.
But, if a less prototypical action is foundexplicitly in thesentence, then this latter is preferedand incorporated into the semantic representationinstead of the default case.
Indeed, the telic roledescribes prototypical actions, since the others areoften unpredictable.
The default meaning of bon iskept and 'frozen' until the whole sentence has beenparsed.
If there is no contracdiction with that sense,then it is assigned to the adjective, otherwise, it isdiscarded in favor of the sense explicitly found in thesentence.Finally, we consider the expressions Y makes agood X, Y is a good X as collocations where good isnot fully treated compositionally.6 Conc lus ionIn this paper, we have presented an analysis of ad-jectival modification within the GL perspective, withthe illustration of the French adjective bon.
We haveproposed several extensions to the Telic role to beable to account for the representation f the differ-ent forms of sense variations.
In particular, we haveshown how types can be added, and how predicatesfrom the telic participate to the construction of thesemantic representation of the compound noun +adjective.Coercions and the treatment of metaphors andmetonymies are generally assumed to be generalprinciples, however, they are in fact more specializedthan they seem at first glance (e.g.
une bonne toque/plume = a good cook/ writer is quite specific, orvery constrained).
It is then necessary to introducenarrow selectional restrictions on their use.
Also,the similarities, quite important, outlined betweenthe different cases presented here and observed forother families of adjectives uggest that there is acommon typology for adjectival modification.
Whatthen would be a general formalism ?
How much arethese rules stlbject to linguistic variation ?Acknowledgements  I thank James Pustejovsky,Federica Busa and Franqoise Gayral for discussionswhich helped improving this work.I don ' t  thank  my university administration, in par-ticular the accounting dept., who made every possi-ble effort to make this research more difficult.Re ferencesBergler, S., (1991) The semantics of collocational pat-terns for reporting verbs, in proc.
5th EACL.Bouillon, P., Mental State Adjectives: the Perspectiveof Generative Lexicon, in proc.
Coling'96, Copenhaguen,1996.Bouillon P., Polymorphie et s~mantique lexicale,Th~se de troisi~me cycle, Universit~ de Paris VlI, 1997.Busa, F., (1996), Compositionality and the Seman-tics of Nominals, PhD.
Dissertation, Brandeis Univer-sity, MA.Copestake, A., Briscoe, T., (1995), Semi-Productivepolysemy and sense extension, journal of semantics, vol.12-1.Dixon, R.M.W., (1991) A new approach to Englishgrammar on semantic principles, Oxford, ClarendonPress.FeUbaum, C., (1993), "English Verbs as SemanticNet", Journal of Lexicography.Jackendoff, R., (1990), Semantic Structures, MITPress.Jackendoff, R., (1997), The Architecture of the Lan-guage Faculty, MIT Press.Katz, G. (1966), The philosophy of Language, Harperand Row, New-York.Lakoff, G., Johnson, M. (1980), Metaphors we LiveBy, University of Chicago Press.Levin, B., (1993), English verb Classes and Alter-nations: A Preliminary Investigation, Chicago Univ.Press.Nunberg, G.D., Zaenen, A., (1992), Systematic Pol-ysemy in Lexicology and Lexicography, proc Euralex92,Tampere, Finland.Ostler, N., Atkins, S., (1992), Predictable MeaningShifts: some lexical properties of lexical implicationrules, in J. Pustejovsky and S. Bergler (eds.)
LexicalSemantics and Knowledge Representation, Springer Ver-lag.Pernelle, N., (1998), Raisonnement par ddfaut et lex-ique gdngrati\], PhD dissertation, LIPN, Paris.Pinker, S., (1993), Learnability and Cognition, MlTPress.Pustejovsky, J., (1991), The Generative Lexicon,Computational Linguistics, vol 17-4.Pustejovsky, J., (1995), The Generative Lexicon, MITPress.Raskin, V., Niremburg, S., (1995) Lexical semantics ofadjectrives, a micro-theory ofadjectival meaning, MCCSreport 95-288.Saint-Dizier, P. (1986) A Logic Programming inter-pretation of Type Coercion inthe generative l xicon, inproc.
NLULP'96, Lisbon.Saint-Dizier, P., (1996), Verb semantic lasses basedon 'alternations' and on WordNet-like semantic riteria:a powerful convergence, in ptvc.
Predicative Forms inNatural anguage and in lexical knowledge bases, IRIT,Toulouse.1149
