Proper Name Translation in Cross-Language Information RetrievalHsin-Hsi Chen, Sheng-Jie Huang, Yung-Wei Ding, and Shih-Chung TsaiDepartment ofComputer Science and Information EngineeringNational Taiwan UniversityTaipei, TAIWAN, R.O.C.hh_chen@csie.ntu.edu.twAbstractRecently, language barrier becomes themajor problem for people to search, retrieve,and understand WWW documents indifferent languages.
This paper deals withquery translation issue in cross-languageinformation retrieval, proper names inparticular.
Models for name identification,name translation and name searching arepresented.
The recall rates and theprecision rates for the identification ofChinese organization ames, person namesand location names under MET data are(76.67%, 79.33%), (87.33%, 82.33%) and(77.00%, 82.00%), respectively.
In nametranslation, only 0.79% and 1.11% ofcandidates for English person names andlocation names, respectively, have to beproposed.
The name searching facility isimplemented on an MT sever forinformation retrieval on the WWW.
Underthis system, user can issue queries and readdocuments with his familiar language.IntroductionWorld Wide Web (WWW) is the most usefuland powerful information dissemination systemon the Internet.
For the multilingual feature,the language barrier becomes the major problemfor people to search, retrieve, and understandWWW documents in different languages.
Thatdecreases the dissemination power of WWW tosome extent.
The researches of cross-languageinformation retrieval abbreviated as CLIR (Oardand Dorr, 1996; Oard 1997) aim to tackle thelanguage barriers.
There are several importantissues in CLIR:232(1) Queries and documents are in differentlanguages, o that translation is required.
(2) Words in a query may be ambiguous, thusdisambiguation is required.
(3) Queries are usually short, thus expansionis required.
(4) Word boundary in queries of somelanguages (Chen and Lee, 1996) is notclear, thus segmentation is required.
(5) A document may be in more than onelanguage, thus language identification isrequired.This paper focuses on query translation issue,proper name in particular.The percentage of user queries containingproper names is very high.
The paper(Thompson and Dozier, 1997) reported anexperiment over periods of several days in 1995.It showed 67.8%, 83.4%, and 38.8% of queriesto Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, andWashington Post, respectively, involve namesearching.
In CLIR, three tasks are needed:name identification, ame translation, and namesearching.
Because proper names are usuallyunknown words, it is hard to find inmonolingual dictionary not to mention bilingualdictionary.
Coverage is one of the majorproblems in dictionary-based approaches(Ballesteros and Croft, 1996; Davis, 1997; Hulland Grefenstette, 1996).
Corpus-basedapproaches (Brown, 1996; Oard 1996; Sheridanand Ballerini, 1996) set up thesaurus from large-scale corpora.
They provide narrow butspecific coverage of the language, and arecomplementary to broad and shallow coveragein dictionaries.
However, domain shifts andterm align accuracy are major limitations ofcorpus-based approaches.
Besides, propernames are infrequent words relative to othercontent words in corpora.
In informationretrieval, most frequent and less frequent wordsare regarded as unimportant words and may beneglected.This paper will propose methods to extractand classify proper names from Chinese queries(Section 1).
Then, Chinese proper names aretranslated into English proper names (Section 2).Finally, the translated queries are sent to an MTsever for information retrieval on the WWW(Bian and Chen, 1997).
The retrieved Englishhome pages are presented in Chinese and/orEnglish.1 Name Extraction and ClassificationPeople, affairs, time, places and things are fivebasic entities in a document.
If we can catchthe fundamental entities, we can understand thedocument to some degree.
These entities arealso the targets that users are interested in.That is, users often issue queries to retrieve suchkinds of entities.
The basic entities oftenappear in proper names, which are majorunknown words in natural language texts.Thus name extraction is indispensable for bothnatural anguage understanding and informationretrieval.In famous message understanding systemevaluation and message understandingconferences (MUC) and the related multilingualentity tasks (MET), named entity, which coversnamed organizations, people, and locations,along with date/time xpressions and monetaryand percentage expressions, is one of tasks forevaluating technologies.
In MUC-6 namedentity task, the systems developed by SRA(Krupka, 1995) and BBN (Weischedel, 1995) onthe person name recognition portion have veryhigh recall and precision scores (over 94%).In Chinese language Processing, Chert andLee (1996) present various strategies to identifyand classify three types of proper nouns, i.e.,Chinese person names, Chinese transliteratedperson names and organization names.
Inlarge-scale xperiments, the average precisionrate is 88.04% and the average recall rate is92.56% for the identification of Chinese personnames.The above approaches can be employed tocollect Chinese and English proper name setsfrom WWW (very large-scale corpora).Identification of proper names in queries isdifferent from that in large-scale texts.
Themajor difference is that query is always short.Thus its context is much shorter than full textsand some technologies involving larger contextsare useless.
The following paragraphs depictthe methods we adopt in the identification ofChinese proper names.A Chinese person name is composed ofsurname and name parts.
Most Chinesesurnames are single character and some rareones are two characters.
A married womanmay place her husband's urname before hersurname.
Thus there are three possible types ofsurnames, i.e., single character, two charactersand two surnames together.
Most names aretwo characters and some rare ones are onecharacter.
Theoretically, every character canbe considered as names rather than a fixed set.Thus the length of Chinese person names rangefrom 2 to 6 characters.
Three kinds ofrecognition strategies shown below are adopted:(1) name-formulation statistics(2) context cues, e.g., titles, positions,speech-act verbs, and so on(3) cacheName-formulation statistics form the baselinemodel.
It proposes possible candidates.
Thecontext cues add extra scores to the candidates.Cache records the occurrences of all the possiblecandidates in a paragraph.
If a candidateappears more than once, it has high tendency tobe a person name.Transliterated person names denote foreigners.Compared with Chinese person names, thelength of transliterated names is not restricted to2 to 6 characters.
The following strategies areadopted to recognize transliterated names:(1) character conditionTwo special character sets are setup.The first character of transliterated namesand the remaining characters must belongto these two sets, respectively.
Thecharacter condition is a loose restriction.The string that satisfies the charactercondition may denote a location, abuilding, an address, etc.
It should beemployed with other cues (refer to (2)-(4)).
(2) titlesTitles used in Chinese person names are233also applicable to transliterated personnames.
(3) name introducersSome words can introduce transliteratednames when they are used at the firsttime.
(4) special verbsThe same set of speech-act verbs used inChinese person names are also used fortransliterated person names.Cache mechanism is also helpful in theidentification of transliterated names.
Acandidate that satisfies the character conditionand one of the cues will be placed in the cache.At the second time, the cues may disappear, butwe can recover the transliterated person name bychecking cache.The structure of organization ames is morecomplex than that of person names.
Basically,a complete organization name can be dividedinto two parts, i.e., name and keyword.Organization names, country names, personnames and location names can be placed into thename part of organization names.
Personnames can be found by the approaches specifiedin the last paragraph.
Location names will betouched later.
Transliterated names mayappear in the name part.
We use the samecharacter sets mentioned in the last paragraph.If a sequence of characters meet the charactercondition, the sequence and the keyword forman organization ame.
Common content wordsmay be inserted in between the name part andthe keyword part.
In current version, at mosttwo content words are allowed.
Besides, weutilize the feature of multiple occurrences oforganization ames in a document and proposen-gram model to deal with this problem.Although cache mechanism and n-gram use thesame feature, i.e., multiple occurrences, theirconcepts are totally different.
For organizationnames, we are not sure when a pattern should beput into cache because its left boundary is hardto decide.The structure of location names is similar tothat of organization names.
A completelocation name is composed of a person name (ora location name) and a location keyword.
Forthe treatment of location names withoutkeywords, we introduce some locative verbs.Cache is also useful and N-gram model isemployed to recover those names that do notmeet he character condition.We test our system with three sets of METdata (i.e., MET-1 formal run, MET-2 training,and MET-2 dry run).
The recall rates and theprecision rates for the identification of Chineseorganization ames, person names and locationnames are (76.67%, 79.33%), (87.33%, 82.33%)and (77.00%, 82.00%), respectively.2 Proper Name TranslationChinese and English are the source language andthe target language, respectively, in our querytranslation.
The alphabets of these twolanguages are totally different.
Wade-Giles(WG) and Pinyin are two famous systems toromanize Chinese (Lu, 1995).
The propername translation problem can be formulated as:(1) Collect English proper name sets fromWWW.
(2) Identify Chinese proper names fromqueries.
(3) Romanize the Chinese proper names.
(4) Select candidates from suitable propername sets.In this way, the translation problem istransferred to a phonic string matching problem.If an English proper name denotes a Chineseentity, e.g., Lee Teng-hui denotes " - ~ "(President of R.O.C.
), the matching is simple.Otherwise, the matching is not trivial.
Forexample, we issue a query "F*q~'-~.~d~" inChinese to retrieve information about Alps.The Pinyin romanization of this name isa.er.bei.si.shan ~.
The string "aerbeisishan" isnot similar to the string "alps".
We developseveral anguage models incrementally to tacklethe translation problem.
The first issue weconsider is how many common characters thereare in a romanized Chinese proper name and anEnglish proper name candidate.
Here the orderis significant.
For example, the Chinese queryis ' J~$ .~-~' .
Its WG romanization is'ai.ssu.chi.le.ssu'.
The corresponding propername is Aeschylus.
Three characters (shownas follow in underline) are matched in order:I The dot is inserted among romanization of Chinesecharacters for clear reading.
Later, the dot may bedropped when strings are matched.234aeschylusa is  suchi lessuWe normalize it by the length of the candidate(i.e., 9), and get a score 0.33.
In an experiment,there are 1,534 pairs of Chinese-English personnames.
We conduct a mate matching: to useeach Chinese proper name as a query, and try tofind the corresponding English proper namefrom the 1,534 candidates.
The performance isevaluated in such a way that how manycandidates hould be proposed to cover thecorrect ranslation.
In other words, the averagerank of correct translations is reported.
Theperformances of the baseline model under WGand Pinyin systems are 40.06 and 31.05,respectively.
The major problem of thebaseline model is: if a character is matchedincorrectly, those characters that follow thischaracter will not contribute to the matching.In the above example, chi ( '~, ') will be helplessfor translation.For reducing the error propagation, weconsider syllables of the candidate in advance.The matching is done in syllables instead of thewhole word.
For example, Aeschylus containsthree syllables.
The matching is shown asfollows:aes chy lusa issu chi lessuThe score is increased to 0.67 (6/9).
In thesimilar experiment, the performances of the newlanguage model are improved.
The averageranks are 35.65 and 27.32 for WG and Pinyinsystems, respectively.Observing the performance differencesbetween WG and Pinyin systems, we find theyuse different phones to denote the same sounds.The following shows examples:(1) vowelsp vs. b, t vs. d, k vs. g, ch vs. j, ch vs. q,hs vs. x, ch vs. zh, j vs. r, ts vs. z, ts vs. c(2) consonants-ien vs. -ian, -ieh vs. -ie, -ou vs. -o,-o vs. -uo, -ung vs. -ong, -ueh vs. -ue,-uei vs. -ui, -iung vs. -iong, -i vs. -yiA new language model integrates thealternatives.
The average ranks of the matematch is 25.39.
The result is better than thoseof separate romanization systems.In the above ranking, each matching characteris given an equal weight.
We postulate that thefirst letter of each Romanized Chinese characteris more important than others.
For example, cin chi is more important than h and i.
Thus itshould have higher score.
The followingshows a new scoring function:score=Zj(f/*(eli/(2 * cli)+0.5)+o,*0.5)/elwhereel: length of English proper name,eli: length of syllable i in English proper name,cli: number of Chinese characters correspond-ing to syllable i,f~: number of matched first-letters in syllable i,oi: number of matched other letters in syllable i.We reduplicate the above example as follows.The first letter is in capital.aes chy lusAiSsu Chi LeSsuThe corresponding parameters are listed below:e1/=3, c11=2, fj=2, o1=0, el=9,el2=3, ci2=1, fe=l, o5=1,eis=3, cls=2, t"3=2, os=0.The new score of this candidate is 0.83.
Underthe new experiment, he average rank is 20.64.If the first letter of a Romanized Chinesecharacter is not matched, we give it a penalty.The average ranks of the enhanced model is16.78.Table 1.
The Performance of Person NameTranslation I I 524 497 107 143 44 22 197We further consider the pronunciation rules inEnglish.
For example, ph usually hasfsound.If all the similar rules are added to the languagemodel, the average rank is enhanced to 12.11.Table 1 summarizes the distribution of ranks ofthe correct candidate.
The first row shows therange of ranks.
The second row shows thenumber of candidates within the range.
Aboutone-third have rank 1.
On the average, only0.79% of candidates have to be proposed tocover the correct solution.
It shows thismethod is quite effective.We also make two extra experiments.
Givena query, the best model is adopted to findEnglish locations.
There are 1,574 candidatesin this test.
The average rank is 17.40.
Inother words, 1.11% of candidates have been235proposed.
If we merge the person name set andlocation set, and repeat the experiment, theperformance drops to 27.70.
It tells us theimportance of classification of proper names.ConclusionThis paper proposes knowledge from character,sentence, and paragraph levels to identifydifferent kinds of proper names.
The personname translation problem is formulated as aphonic string matching problem.
We considerthe length of matching characters, syllables,different romanization systems, pronunciationrules, positive and negative scores in ranking.The name searching mechanism is integratedinto a Chinese-English information retrievalsystem.
In this way, languages are transparentto users on the Internet.
In currentimplementation, only 0.79% and 1.11% ofcandidates for English person names andlocation names, respectively have to be proposedduring name translation.This model can be employed to set up abilingual proper name dictionary.
We cancollect English and Chinese proper names fromInternet periodically, and then conduct a matematching.
Human can be involved to select hecorrect ranslation.
That will reduce the cost todevelop a large scale bilingual proper namedictionary for name searching.ReferencesBallesteros, L. and Croft, W.B.
(1996) "Dictionary-based Methods for Cross-Lingual InformationRetrieval," Proceedings of the 7 'h InternationalDEXA Conference on Database and ExpertSystems Applications, pp.
791-801.Bian, G.W.
and Chen, H.H.
(1997) "An MT-Serverfor Information Retrieval on WWW."
WorkingNotes of the AAAI Spring Symposium on NaturalLanguage Processing for the Worm Wide Web,1997, pp.
10-16.Brown, R.D.
(1996) "Example-Based MachineTranslation in the Pangloss System."
Proceedingsof 16 ~h International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pp.
169-174.Chen, H.H, and Lee, J.C. (1996) "Identification andClassification of Proper Nouns in Chinese Texts.
"Proceedings of 16th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, 1996, pp.
222-229.Hull, D.A.
and Grefenstette, G. (1996) "QueryingAcross Languages: A Dictionary-based Approachto Multilingual Information Retrieval.
"Proceedings of the 19 ~h International Conferenceon Research and Development in InformationRetrieval, pp.
49-57.Krupka, G.R.
(1995) "SRA: Description of the SRASystem as Used for MUC-6."
Proceedings of SixthMessage Understanding Conference, 1995, pp.221-235.Mani, I., et al (1993) "Identifying Unknown ProperNames in Newswire Text."
Proceedings ofWorkshop on Acquisition of Lexical Knowledgefrom Text, 1993, pp.
44-54.McDonald, D. (1993) "Internal and ExternalEvidence in the Identification and SemanticCategorization of Proper Names."
Proceedings ofWorkshop on Acquisition of Lexical Knowledgefrom Text, 1993, pp.
32-43.Oard, D.W. (1997)"Alternative Approaches forCross-Language T xt Retrieval."
Working Notes ofAAAI-97 Spring Symposiums on Cross-LanguageText and Speech Retrieval, pp.
131-139.Oard, D.W. (1996) Adaptive Vector Space TextFiltering for Monolingual and Cross-languageApplications, Ph.D. Dissertation, University ofMaryland.Oard, D.W. and Dorr, B.J.
(1996) A Survey ofMultilingual Text Retrieval.
Technical ReportUMIACS-TR-96-19, University of Maryland,Institute for Advanced Computer Studies.http://www.ee.umd.edu/medlab/filter/papers/mlir.ps.Paik, W., et al (1993) "Categorizing andStandardizing Proper Nouns for EfficientInformation Retrieval."
Proceedings of Workshopon Acquisition of Lexical Knowledge from Text,1993, pp.
154-160.Sheridan, P. and Ballerini, J.P. (1996) "Experimentsin Multilingual Information Retrieval Using theSPIDER System."
Proceedings of the 19 'h ACMSIGIR Conference on Research and Developmentin Information Retrieval, pp.
58-65.Thompson, P. and Dozier, C. (1997) "NameSearching and Information Retrieval."
Proceedingsof Second Conference on Empirical Methods inNatural Language Processing, Providence, RhodeIsland, 1997.Weischedei, R. (1995)"BBN: Description of thePLUM System as Used for MUC-6."
Proceedingsof Sixth Message Understanding Conference, 1995,55-69.236
