Aligning Articles in TV Newscasts and NewspapersYasuh iko  WatanabeRyukoku  Un ivers i tySeta ,  OtsuSh iga ,  JapanYosh ih i ro  OkadaRyukoku  Un iv .Seta ,  OtsuSh iga ,  JapanKengo kane j iRyukoku  Un iv .Seta ,  OtsuSh iga ,  JapanMakoto NagaoKyoto UniversityYoshida, Sakyo-kuKyoto, Japanwatanabe@r ins .
ryukoku .ac .
jpAbst rac tIt is important to use pattern information (e.g.
TVnewscasts) and textual information (e.g.
newspa-pers) together.
For this purpose, we describe amethod for aligning articles in TV newscasts andnewspapers.
In order to align articles, the align-ment system uses words extracted from telops inTV newscasts.
The recall and the precision of thealignment process are 97% and 89%, respectively.In addition, using the results of the alignment pro-cess, we develop a browsing and retrieval system forarticles in TV newscasts and newspapers.1 In t roduct ionPattern information and natural anguage informa-tion used together can complement and reinforceeach other to enable more effective communicationthan can either medium alone (Feiner 91) (Naka-mura 93).
One of the good examples is a TV news-cast and a newspaper.
In a TV newscast, eventsare reported clearly and intuitively with speech andimage information.
On the other hand, in a news-paper, the same events are reported by text infor-mation more precisely than in the correspondingTV newscast.
Figure 1 and Figure 2 are examplesof articles in TV newscasts and newspapers, respec-tively, and report the same accident, that is, the air-plane crash in which the Commerce Secretary waskilled.
However, it is difficult o use newspapers andTV newscasts together without aligning articles inthe newspapers with those in the TV newscasts.
Inthis paper, we propose a method for aligning arti-cles in newspapers and TV newscasts.
In addition,we show a browsing and retrieval system for alignedarticles in newspapers and TV newscasts.2 TV  Newscasts  and  Newspapers2.1 TV NewscastsIn a TV newscast, events are generally reported inthe following modalities:?
image information,?
speech information, and?
text information (telops).In TV newscasts, the image and the speech infor-mation are main modalities.
However, it is diffi-cult to obtain the precise information from thesekinds of modalities.
The text information, on theother hand, is a secondary modality in TV news-casts, which gives us:?
explanations of image information,?
summaries of speech information, and?
information which is not concerned with thereports (e.g.
a time signal).In these three types of information, the first andsecond ones represent the contents of the reports.Moreover, it is not difficult to extract text infor-mation from TV newscasts.
It is because a lotsof works has been done on character ecognitionand layout analysis (Sakai 93) (Mino 96) (Sato 98).Consequently, we use this textual information foraligning the TV newscasts with the correspondingnewspaper articles.
The method for extracting thetextual information is discussed in Section 3.1.
But,we do not treat the method of character recognitionin detail, because it is beyond the main subject ofthis study.2.2 NewspapersA text in a newspaper article may be divided intofour parts:?
headline,?
explanation of pictures,?
first paragraph, and?
the rest.In a text of a newspaper article, several kinds ofinformation are generally given in important order.In other words, a headline and a first paragraph ina newspaper article give us the most important in-formation.
In contrast o this, the rest in a newspa-per article give us the additional information.
Con-sequently, headlines and first paragraphs containmore significant words (keywords) for representingthe contents of the article than the rest.1381Telops in thesetop le~:top right:middle left:middle right:bottom left:TV news imagesAll the passengers, includingCommerce Secy Brown, werekilledcrush point, the forth day[Croatian Minister of Domes-tic Affairs] "All passengerswere killed"[Pentagon] The plane was offcourse.
"accident under badweather condition".Commerce Secy Brown, Tu-zla, the third dayFigure 1: An example of TV news articles (NHK evening TV newscasts; April, 4, 1996)On the other hand, an explanation of a picture inan article shows us persons and things in the picturethat are concerned with the report.
For example, inFigure 2, texts in bold letters under the picture isan explanation of the picture.
Consequently, expla-nations of pictures contain many keywords as wellas headlines and first paragraphs.In this way, keywords in a newspaper article aredistributed unevenly.
In other words, keywords aremore frequently in the headline, the explanation ofthe pictures, and the first paragraph.
In addition,these keywords are shared by the newspaper articlewith TV newscasts.
For these reasons, we alignarticles in TV newscasts and newspapers using thefollowing clues:?
location of keywords in each article,?
frequency of keywords in each article, and?
length of keywords.1382' .
: L  .
.  )
: '  ' ?7: . '
-~4~- -Summary of this article: On Apt 4, the Croatian Government confirmed that Commerce SecretaryRonald H. Brown and 32 other people were all killed in the crash of a US Air Force plane near theDubrovnik airport in the Balkans on Apt 3, 1996.
It was raining hard near the airport at that time.A Pentagon spokesman said there are no signs of terrorist act in this crash.
The passengers includedmembers of Brown's staff, private business leaders, and a correspondent for the New York Times.President Clinton, speaking at the Commerce Department, praised Brown as 'one of the best advisersand ablest people I ever knew.'
On account of this accident, Vice Secretary Mary Good was appointedto the acting Secretary.
In the Balkans, three U.S. officials on a peace mission and two U.S. soldierswere killed in Aug 1995 and Jan 1996, respectively.
(Photo) Commerce Secy Brown got off a military plane Boeing 737 and met soldiers at the Tuzla airportin Bosnia.
The plane crashed and killed Commerce Secy Brown when it went down to Dubrovnik.Figure 2: An example of newspaper articles (Asahi Newspaper; April, 4, 1996)3 A l ign ing  Ar t i c les  in  TVNewscasts  and  Newspapers3.1 Extracting Nouns from TelopsAn article in the TV newscast generally shares manywords, especially nouns, with the newspaper a ticlewhich reports the same event.
Making use of thesenouns, we align articles in the TV newscast and inthe newspaper.
For this purpose, we extract nounsfrom the telops as follows:Step 1 Extract texts from the TV images by hands.For example, we extract "Okinawa ken Ohlachiff' from the TV image of Figure 3.
Whenthe text is a title, we describe it.
It is notdifficult to find title texts because they havespecific expression patterns, for example, anunderline (Figure 4 and a top left picture inFigure 1).
In addition, we describe the follow-Figure 3: An example of texts in a TV newscast:"Okinawa ken OMa chiji (Ohta, Governor of Oki-nawa Prefecture)"1383Figure 4: An example of title texts: "zantei yosananasu shu-in tsuka he (The House of Rep. will passthe provisional budget tomorrow)"ing kinds of information:?
size of each character?
distance between characters?
position of each telop in a TV imageStep 2 Divide the texts extracted in Step 1 intolines.
Then, segment hese lines at the pointwhere the size of character or the distance be-tween characters changes.
For example, thetext in Figure 3 is divided into "Okinawa ken(Okinawa Prefecture)", "Ohta (Ohta)", and" chiji (Governor)".S tep  3 Segment the texts by the morphological n-alyzer JUMAN (Kurohashi 97).Step 4 Analyze telops in TV images.
Figure 5shows several kinds of information which areexplained by telops in TV Newscasts (Watan-abe 96).
In (Watanabe 96), a method of se-mantic analysis of telops was proposed and thecorrect recognition of the method was 92 %.We use this method and obtain the semanticinterpretation of each telop.S tep  5 Extract nouns from the following kinds oftelops.?
telops which explain the contents of TVimages (except "time of photographing"and "image data")?
telops which explain a factIt is because these kinds of telops may con-tain adequate words for aligning articles.
Onthe contrary, we do not extract nouns fromthe other kinds of telops for aligning articles.For example, we do not extract nouns fromtelops which are categorized into a quotationof a speech in Step 4.
It is because a quota-tion of a speech is used as the additional infor-1.
explanation of contents of a TV im-age(a) explanation of a scene(b) explanation of an elementi.
personii.
group and organizationiii.
thing(c) bibliographic nformationi.
time of photographingii.
place of photographingiii.
image data2.
quotation of a speech3.
explanation of a fact(a) titles of TV news(b) diagram and table(c) other4.
information which is not concernedwith a report(a) current ime(b) broadcasting style(c) names of an announcer and re-portersFigure 5: Information explained by telops in TVNewscastsFigure 6: An example of a quotation of a speech:"kono kuni wo zenshin saseru chansu wo atae tehoshii (Give me a chance to develop our country)"mation and may contain inadequate words foraligning articles.
Figure 6 shows an exampleof a quotation of a speech.3.2 Ext ract ion  of  Layout  In fo rmat ion  inNewspaper  Art ic lesFor aligning with articles in TV newscasts, we usenewspaper articles which are distributed in the In-ternet.
The reasons are as follows:1384Table 1: The weight w(i,j)II newspaper \[title I pier' expl" I fir.t p&r.
\[ th .
.
.
.
tthe number of the articles in the TV newscasts 143the number of the corresponding article pairs 100the  number of the pairs of aligned articles 109the  number of the correct pairs of aligned articles 97Figure 7: The results of the alignment?
articles are created in the electronic form, and?
articles are created by authors using HTMLwhich offers embedded codes (tags) to desig-nate headlines, paragraph breaks, and so on.Taking advantage of the HTML tags, we dividenewspaper articles into four parts:?
headline,?
explanation of pictures,?
first paragraph, and?
the rest.The procedure for dividing a newspaper article is asfollows.1.
Extract a headline using tags for headlines.2.
Divide an article into the paragraphs usingtags for paragraph breaks.3.
Extract paragraphs which start " {T\]:~>> (sha-shin, picture)" as the explanation of pictures.4.
Extract the top paragraph as the first para-graph.
The others are classified into the rest.3.3 P rocedure  for Al igning Art ic lesBefore aligning articles in TV newscasts and news-papers, we chose corresponding TV newscasts andnewspapers.
For example, an evening TV newscastis aligned with the evening paper of the same dayand with the morning paper of the next day.
Wealigned articles within these pairs of TV newscastsand newspapers.The alignment process consists of two steps.
First,we calculate reliability scores for an article in theTV newscasts with each article in the correspond-ing newspapers.
Then, we select he newspaper ar-ticle with the maximum reliability score as the cor-responding one.
If the maximum score is less thanthe given threshold, the articles are not aligned.As mentioned earlier, we calculate the reliabilityscores using these kinds of clue information:?
location of words in each article,?
frequency of words in each article, and?
length of words.If we are given a TV news article z and a newspaperarticle y, we obtain the reliability score by using thewords k(k - 1... N) which are extracted from theTV news article z:SCORE(z, y) =N 4 2~ ~ w(i,j), hap,r(i,k), fTv(j,k)" length(k)k=l  i=1 j= lwhere w(i, j) is the weight which is given to accord-ing to the location of word k in each article.
Wefixed the values of w(i, j) as shown in Table 1.
Asshown in Table 1, we divided a newspaper articleinto four parts: (1) title, (2) explanation of pic-tures, (3) first paragraph, and (4) the rest.
Also,we divided texts in a TV newscasts into two: (1)title, and (2) the rest.
It is because keywords aredistributed unevenly in articles of newspapers andTV newscasts, haper(i,k) and fTv(j,k) are thefrequencies of the word k in the location { of thenewspaper and in the location j of the TV news,respectively, length(k) is the length of the word k.4 Exper imenta l  Resu l t sTo evaluate our approach, we aligned articles inthe following TV newscasts and newspapers:?
NHK evening TV newscast, and?
Asahi newspaper (distributed in the Internet).We used 143 articles of the evening TV newscastsin this experiment.
As mentioned previously, arti-cles in the evening TV newscasts were aligned witharticles in the evening paper of the same day andin the morning paper of the next day.
Figure 7shows the results of the alignment.
In this exper-iment, the threshold was set to 100.
We used twomeasures for evaluating the results: recall and pre-cision.
The recall and the precision are 97% and89%, respectively.One cause of the failures is abbreviation ofwords.For example, "shinyo-kinko (credit association)" isabbreviated to "shinkin".
In our method, thesewords lower the reliability scores.
To solve thisproblem, we would like to improve the alignmentperformance by using dynamic programming match-ing method for string matching.
(Tsunoda 96) hasreported that the results of the alignment were im-proved by using dynamic programming matchingmethod.In this experiment, we did not align the TV newsarticles of sports, weather, stock prices, and foreign1385o .2 , ; :Interface Retrieval DatabaseFigure 8: An example of a sports news article: "sen-balsu kaimaku (Inter-high school baseball games tart)"exchange.
It is because the styles of these kinds ofTV news articles are fixed and quite different fromthose of the others.
From this, we concluded thatwe had better align these kinds of TV news articlesby the different method from ours.
As a result ofthis, we omitted TV news articles the title text ofwhich had the special underline for these kinds ofTV news articles.
For example, Figure 8 shows aspecial underline for a sports news.5 Browsing and Retrieval Systemfor Articles in TV Newscasts andNewspapersThe alignment process has a capability for informa-tion retrieval, that is, browsing and retrieving arti-cles in TV newscasts and newspapers.
As a result,using the results of the alignment process, we devel-oped a browsing and retrieval system for TV news-casts and newspapers.
Figure 9 shows the overviewof the system.
The important points for this systemare as follows:?
?
Newspaper articles and TV news articles arecross-referenced.?
A user can consult articles in TV newscastsand newspapers by means of the dates of broad-casting or publishing.?
A user can consult newspaper articles by fulltext retrieval.
In the same way, user can con-sult TV newscasts which are aligned with re-trieved newspaper articles.
In other words,content based retrieval for TV newscasts isavailable.?
Newspaper articles are written in ttTML.
Inaddition to this, the results of the alignmentprocess are embedded in the HTML texts.
Asa result, we can use a WWW browser (e.g.
!browser___J"IV newsarticlesGUI ~ r- alignment [ i ~ ~ .... information] retrieval I ~ Newspaperartlcles ibrowser" q"-'CGI script ---./  ~TML document JFigure 9: System overviewNetscape, Internet Explorer, etc) for brows-ing and retrieving articles in TV newscasts andnewspapers.A user can consult articles in newspapers and TVnewscasts by full text retrieval in this way: whenthe user gives a query word to the system, the sys-tem shows the titles and the dates of the newspaperarticles which contain the given word.
At the sametime, the system shows the titles of TV news articleswhich are linked to the retrieved newspaper articles.For example, a user obtains 13 newspaper articlesand 4 TV news articles when he gives "saishutsu(annual expenditure)" as a query word to the sys-tem.
One of them, entitled "General annual expen-diture dropped for three successive years" (June, 4,1997), is shown in Figure 10.
The newspaper articlein Figure 10 has an icon in the above right, lookslike an opening scene of a TV news article.
Theicons shows this article is linked to the TV newsarticle.
When the user select this icon, the systemshows the TV news article "Public work costs werea seven percent decrease" (the top left window inFigure 10).ReferencesFeiner, McKeown: Automating the Generation of Coor-dinated Multimedia Explanations, IEEE Computer,Vol.24 No.10, (1991).Nakamura, Furukawa, Nagao: Diagram UnderstandingUtilizing Natural Language Text, 2nd InternationalConference on Document Analysis and Recognition,(1993).Kurohashi, Nagao: 3UMAN Manual version 3.4 (in Japa-nese), Nagao Lab., Kyoto University, (1997) *.Mino: Intelligent Retrieval for Video Media (in Japanese),Journal of Japan Society for Artificial IntelligenceVol.ll No.l, (1996).1The source file and the explanation (in Japanese)of Japanese morphological nalyzer JUMAN can be ob-tained using anonymous FTP fromffp://pine.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp/pub/juman/juman3.4.tar.gz13865~.
'NE..~ 1997~.7:., llgil~iixJf~i-alaJ!.o)~.~lg-i~J(7[ (1)~1~!I-~?2-, m.3!.~7 ' ,~  "TL.,-.*'UI?
~.
q.Yg.U.
,  ~ .
.
.
.Figure 10: An output of the reference system for articles in TV newscast and newspapers: "Public workcosts were a seven percent decrease" and "General annual expenditure dropped for three successive years"Sakai: A History and Evolution of Document Infor-mation Processing, 2nd International Conference onDocument Analysis and Recognition, (1993).Sato, Hughes, and Kanade: Video OCR for DigitalNews Archive, IEEE International Workshop on Content-based Access of Image and Video Databases, (1998).Tsunoda, Ooishi, Watanabe, Nagao: Automatic Align-ment between TV News and Newspaper Articles byMaximum Length String between Captions and Ar-ticle Texts (in Japanese), IPSJ-WGNL 96-NL-115,(1996).Watanabe, Okada, Nagao: Semantic Analysis of Telopsin TV Newscasts (in Japanese).
IPSJ-WGNL 96-NL-116, (1996).1387
