Generating the Structure of ArgumentChris ReedDepartment of IS and ComputingBrunel UniversityMiddlesex, Uxbridge UB8 3PH, EnglandChris .Reed @ brunel, ac .ukDerek LongDepartment ofComputer ScienceUniversity of DurhamSouth Road, Durham DH1 3LE, EnglandD.P.Long@dur.ac.ukAbstractThis paper demonstrates that generatingarguments in natural language requiresplanning at an abstract level, and that theappropriate abstraction cannot be capturedby approaches based solely upon coherencerelations.
An abstraction based planningsystem is presented which employsoperators motivated by empirical study andrhetorical maxims.
These operators include asubset of traditional deductive rules ofinference, argumentation theoretic rules ofrefutation, and inductive reasoning patterns.The paper presents a unified system inwhich the  various argument forms areemployed in generating rich, complexstructures for persuasive t xt.IntroductionThe ability to generate arguments in naturallanguage is attracting wide-ranging researchinterest, and it is becoming clear that theproblem is also stimulating investigation of anumber of problems of importance to naturallanguage generation (NLG) as a whole (Reedand Long, 1997a).
Argumentation is particularlyappropriate as an NLG problem both because itis more highly structured than other forms ofnatural language, and because there are a varietyof established metrics developed in rhetoric andsocial psychology for judging the resultantquality of a text.
These advantages are beingexploited in the design and implementation fthe ~hetor/ca system, of which the current workforms a part.1 Problems with RSTA number of limitations of the generativecapacity of Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST)(Mann and Thompson, 1988) have recently beenidentified - most notably, its inability toadequately handle intention (Moore and Paris,1994).
Through investigation of a particulargenre - persuasive t xt - it has become clear thatRST suffers from a much wider catalogue ofcrippling restrictions, severely limiting itsapplicability to generation in this genre andquestioning its suitability elsewhere.Mann and Thompson discuss the keyrole played by the notion of nuc lear i ty  - thatrelations hold between one nucleus and onesatellite.
They do, however, concede (p269) thatthere are a few cases in which nuclearity breaksdown - and these they regard as rather unusual.The two types of multi-nuclear constructs theyidentify are enve lop ing  st ructures  - " texts  withconventional openings and closings" andpara l le l  s t ructures  - "texts in which parallelismis the dominant organising pattern".
Both ofthese are not just common in argument, but formkey components.
Enveloping structures areprecisely what are described by, for example,Blair (1838) (citing Cicero), when presenting thedissection of argument into introduction,proposition, division, narration, argumentative,pathetic and conclusion (these are by no meansobligatory in every argument, nor is there anygreat consensus over this particularcharacterisation; most authors, however, wouldagree that some such gross structure, usuallyinvolving introduction and conclusion, isappropriate).
These structures are found withgreat frequency in natural argument, and cannot,therefore, be ignored.
Parallel structures formthe very basis of argument, since only the mosttrivial will involve lines of reasoning in which asingle premise supports a single conclusion.Multiple subarguments conjoined to support a1091conclusion are the norm (see for example,Cohen (1987), Reed and Long, 1997b), andthese necessarily form parallel structures.Another shortcoming is highlighted by adissonance between RST and argument analysis(see Eemeren et al (1996) for a review).
Agiven text may be amenable to multiple RSTanalyses - not just as a result of ambiguity, butbecause there are, at a fundamental level,"multiple compatible analyses".
This contrastswith the view in argumentation theory, whereone argument has a single, unequivocalstructure.
There may, of course, be practicalproblems in identifying this structure, and twoanalysts may disagree on the most appropriateanalysis (and indeed this latter has a closeparallel in RST, since different analysts are atliberty to make different 'plausibilityjudgements' as to the aims of the speaker).
Thepresence of these problems, however, is notequivalent to claiming that arguments maysimply have more than one structure, a claimwhich would pose insurmountable problems tothe evaluation process (- argumentation theoryaims to determine a means of classifying anargument as either good or bad, and the presenceof inherent structural multiplicity would presentthe possibility of an argument beingsimultaneously good and bad).Finally, there is a more intuitive problemwith RST, highlighted by analysing argumentstructure.
Although there is much debate overthe number and range of rhetorical relations (e.g.Hovy, 1993) there seems to be no way ofdealing with the idea of argumentative support.In the first place, as Snoeck-Henkemans (1997)points out, Motivation, Evidence, Justification,Cause, Solutionhood and other relations couldall be used argumentatively (as well, of course,as being applicable in non-argumentativesituations).
Elhadad (1992) draws a similarconclusion (though his list of potentiallyargumentative r lations is somewhat shorter).Thus it is impossible to identify anargumentative r lation on the basis of RSTalone.
Secondly, RST offers no way of capturinghigher level organisational units, such as ModusPonens, Modus Tollens, and so on.
For althoughtheir structure (or at least the structure of anyone instance) can be represented in RST - and,given Marcu's (1996) elegant extensions, eventheir hierarchical use in larger units - adoptingthis approach necessitates a lower level view.
Itbecomes impossible to represent and employ aModus Tollens subargument supporting theantecedent of a Modus Ponens - rather, thesituation can only be characterised as Psupporting through one of the potentiallyargumentative RST relations Q, and showingthat -Q, so -P, and -P  then supporting throughone of the potentially argumentative RSTrelations R, therefore R. Apart from beingobviously cumbersome, the representation haslost the abstract structure of the argumentaltogether, and is not generalisable andcomparable to other similar argument structures.
(It could perhaps be maintained that suchstructures could be represented asRST schemas,but there are several problems with such anapproach: in the first place, schemas cannotabstract from individual relations, so therewould need to be a separate 'Modus Ponens'schema for each possible argumentative supportrelation; furthermore, the optionality andrepetition rules of schema application (Mannand Thomson, 1988, p248) are not suited toargument, as they license the creation ofincoherent argument structure).It is for these reasons, and particularly,the last, that although RST plays an importantrole in the current work, it is subsumed by alayer which explicitly represents argumentativeconstructs.
These constructs can be mapped onto the most appropriate set of RST relations(thus, for example, the implicature in an MPmay be realised into any one of the potentiallyargumentative r lations mentioned above).
Theapproach thus maintains the generativecapabilities of RST (particularly when extendedalong the lines of Marcu (1996) to ensurecoherency through adducement of canonicalordering constraints), whilst embracing theintuitive argumentative r lationships at a moreabstract level.
It is these latter relationshipswhich characterise the structure of the argument(i.e.
the structure which argumentation theorystrives to determine).
The relationships are alsounambiguous: a single argument has exactly onestructure at this level abstraction (thoughmultiplicity is not thereby prevented at the RSTlevel).
Further, parallelism occurs only at thehigher level of abstraction (multiple1092subarguments contribute to a conclusion, buteach subargument is mononucleaic), andsimilarly, enveloping structures are alsocharacterised only at the higher level (thus theRST is restricted to a predominantlymononucleaic structure).
Finally, completeargument texts are not obliged to have completeRST trees.
For although most parts of a text arelikely to have unifying RST analyses, andalthough there must be a single overarchingstructure at the highest level of abstraction, therefinement o RST need not enforce theintroduction of rhetorical relations betweenparts.
This expands the flexibility and generativecapacity of the system encompassing a greaterproportion of coherent arguments (including, forexample, those found in laws and contracts).2 Abstraction-Based PlanningThe structure of argument is thus planned at alevel more abstract han RST.
To exploit theintrinsic hierarchical structuring of argument,the current work makes use of AbNLP (Fox andLong, 1995), a hierarchical planner based uponthe concept of encapsulation, whereby the bodyof an abstract operator contains goals rather thanoperators, and further, that the body of anoperator is not opened up until an entire abstractplan has been completed (i.e.
there are no goalsleft unfulfilled at that level of abstraction).
Oncompletion of an abstract plan (which can beseen, in discourse planning, as a skeletal outlineof what is to be communicated), the refinementoperation opens up all the abstract operatorbodies, such that the structure and constraintsdetermined at one level of abstraction arepropagated to the next level down.
As aconsequence, many choices which might havebeen considered during planning of an argumentat the detailed level can be pruned as theybecome inconsistent with the abstract plan.
Suchan approach as the potential to considerablyimprove upon the performance of a classicalplanner, (Bacchus and Yang, 1992).
The use ofAbNLP in a framework for argumentativediscourse planning is discussed in more detail inReed et al (1996).The operators employed by AbNLPutilise a highly parsimonious set of intentionalgoals.
Belief goals are used to build the contentof an argument (as in much other NLG work);saliency goals to express the intention to conveyinformation to the hearer (following a notion ofsaliency similar to that proposed in Walker,1996); and topic manipulation goals to controlthe focus of attention through the discourse.
Theroles of these goals and their interrelationshipsare explored in relation to the information-intention-attention model of Grosz and Sidner(1986) in more detail in Reed and Long (1997a).3 Deductive OperatorsThe choice of operators implemented inthe Rhetorica system has been influenced by anumber of factors.
The rules of inference areclear candidates for operationalisation: movessuch as Modus Ponens are clearly vitalcomponents of any argument - though, as notedin Grosz and Sidner (1986), p201, it isinappropriate oview the implication step as oneof conventional material implication.
Therelationship s rather one of support - the hearermust be brought to believe that (given thecurrent context and domain of discourse) thefirst proposition warrants, in part, concluding thesecond.
Even given this weaker, predicate-basedreading of a Modus Ponens argument, it is stillunclear that any of the other rules of inference(which are, after all, formally redundant) shouldbe necessary.
The answer lies in the secondconsideration, which is entirely empirical - thereason that the argument planning needs to beable to employ other rules of inference is thatsuch argument forms occur naturally.
ModusTollens, for example, is perfectly common, withnumerous (real world) examples inargumentation texts such as Fisher (1988).Further, there is a variety of evidence whichsuggests that Modus Tollens in fact occupies acrucial position in human reasoning (Ohlssonand Robin (1994) cite examples not only frompsychology, artificial intelligence and empiricalobservation, but also by reference to classicexamples of Euclid, Galileo, etc.
)Disjunctive Syllogisms are also foundreasonably often, but the remaining rules ofinference are found very rarely.
For this reason,only the three logical argument forms, MP, MTand DS, are currently implemented.The three deductive operators are shown1093MP (Ag, X, P)Shell: Precond:Add:Body: Goals:MT (Ag, X, P)Shell: Precond:Add:Goals: Body:DS (Ag, X, P)Shell:Body:X, (X -~ P)BEL (Ag, ~P)BEL (Ag, P)t0:PUSH TOPIC(arg(X,P))tI:BEL(Ag, X)t2: IS_SALIENT(Ag,X,arg(X,P))t3:BEL(Ag, X-)P)t4:IS SALIENT(Ag,X-~P,arg(X,P))t5:POP_TOPIC(arg(X,P))X, (-P -~ X)BEL (Ag, ~P)BEL (Ag, P)t0:PUSH_TOPIC(arg(-X,P))tI:BEL(Ag,~X)t2: IS_SALIENT(Ag,-X,arg(-X,P))t3:BEL(Ag,~P-~X)t4: IS_SALIENT(Ag,-P-+X,arg (~X, P))t5:POP_TOPIC(arg(-X,P))Precond: X, (X v P)BEL (Ag, ~P)Add: BEL (Ag, P)Goals: t0:PUSH_TOPIC(arg(X,P))tl :BEL (Ag, ~X)t2:IS SALIENT(Ag,~X,arg(X,P))t3:BEL(Ag, X v P)t4:IS SALIENT(Ag,X v P,arg(X,P) )t5 : POP_TOPIC (arg (X, P) )Figure 1.
The deductive operatorsin Figure 1 (the orderings constraining the bodygoals - enforcing initial and terminal positionsfor PUSH_TOPIC and POP_TOPIC respectively -are omitted for clarity).
The preconditions oneach operator act as filters on their applicability(so that, for example, the version of MP shownis only applicable for the situation in which thehearer believes the negation of the conclusion).The body is bounded by the topic manipulatorswhich take as a parameter the topic for thecurrent argument, of the form arg(X,  P), ageneric expression representing an argumentconcluding P using a premise X (used to abstractfrom Modus Ponens, Modus Tollens, etc.).
Thesaliency goals also employ the same contextparameter: this is used at a later stage to ensure abasic level of coherency (by placing utteranceswithin the appropriate focus space) - discussionof this mechanism is beyond the scope of thispaper.
Finally, the operator bodies also includegoals of belief which are satisfied (afterrefinement) by further applications of theoperators (e.g.
the goal t l  in a given MP couldbe fulfilled by an MT)4 Refutation operatorsIn addition to these deductive operators,5~hetorica also employs pseudo-deductiveoperators, by means of which counter-counterargumentation structures can bedeveloped.
The importance of including suchrefutation in an argument has been conclusivelydemonstrated in social psychology (Hovland,1957).
The operators required to effect thegeneration of such structure are closely relatedto the notions of conflict explored by Haggith(1996), and draw upon the distinction betweenrebutting and undercutting counterarguments,identified in (Toulmin, 1958).
Given thesituation portrayed in Figure 2, in which thespeaker believes p because of a, and alsodisbelieves b because of d and e, and the hearerbelieves -p supported by b and c, a number ofoptions are available to the speaker.
Theconventional MP operator discussed above canbe employed to support p by a - this is rebuttal.In addition, the hearer's belief in -p  can beundercut by arguing against one of its supports,namely, b.-b  / \d e aH -p/ \b cFigure 2.
Sample scenarioThere are thus no new operators forrebutting, since those in Figure 1 already fulfilthat role.
Undercutting, however, requires twonew operators, one which characterises arefutation of a premise (UCP), and one whichcharacterises a refutation of the validity of aninference (UCI).
The operator definitions areshown below in Figure 3.There are several points to note aboutthese definitions.
First, that they are fairly loose,since the speaker is not obliged to believe thefalsity of the hearer's premise, merely be able topersuade the hearer of that falsity (though thespeaker is somewhat constrained by rules ofterminal goal fulfilment - in particular, theBEE (H, P) goal is prohibited from fulfilment by1094UCP (Ag, X, P)Shell: Precond:Add:Body: Goals: tOtlt2t3t4t5P, BEL(Ag, -P)BEL(Ag, X), BEL(Ag, X-gP)BEL(Ag, P)BEL(Ag, -X):PUSH_TOPIC(arg(-X,P)):IS_SALIENT(Ag,X,arg(-X,P)):BEL(Ag,-X):IS_SALIENT(Ag,-X,arg(-X,P)):IS_SALIENT(Ag,X-~P,arg(-X,P)):POP_TOPIC(arg(-X,P))UCI (Ag, X, P)Shell: Precond: -(X-+P), BEL(Ag, -P)BEL(Ag, X), BEL(Ag, X-~P)Add: BEL(Ag, P)BEL(Ag, -(X-~P))Body: Goals: t0:PUSH TOPIC(arg(-(X-+P),P))tI:IS_SALIENT(Ag,X,arg(-(X-~P),P))tI:BEL(Ag,-(X-~P))t2:IS_SALIENT(Ag,-(X-~P),arg(-(X-~P),P))t5:POP_TOPIC(arg(-(X-eP),P))Figure 3.
Refutation operatorsany means other than substantial support).Secondly, in the UCP operator, it is necessary tomake sure that the hearer is aware that thepremise supports his conclusion - but clearly,the speaker doesn't want to offer any furthersupport for the inference, hence the absence of abelief goal corresponding to IS_SALIENT (Ag, XV, arg (-X, V)).
Lastly, a similar issue facesthe UCI operator - the t l  goal expresses theneed to make the premise salient beforeattacking it.
Indeed, stating counterarguments isthe key to counter-counterargumentation: justmentioning a counterargument can bolster aclaim.
The goal is particularly interesting bothfrom a realisation point of view (whereinformation can be exploited that x is beingmade salient in the context of an argument from~x), and an ordering point of view (whether ornot statement should precede refutation, andthen whether or not UCP/I argumentation shouldprecede pro support is a major issue of debate inpsychology, Hass and Linder, 1972).The deductive operators, however, donot offer the full range of argument forms foundin natural text.
One major omission is the classof inductive operators, including analogy,inductive generalisation, and causal relation.
Theframework is designed to admit all theseoperators, but the current work concentratesupon inductive generalisation.Inductive generalisation (IG) is ofparticular interest for a number of reasons.
Thefirst is the frequency with which various naivelystatistical and probabilistic arguments areemployed in natural language.
Moreimportantly, though, are the problems faced inargumentation theoretic analyses of inductivegeneralisation.
Freeman (1991) examines theproblems in depth, and, building on Toulmin'swork (1958), and its criticisms, comes to a welljustified conclusion that IG should be treated asa convergent arrangement.
His argument restslargely on the distinction between the 'groundadequacy' and 'relevance' questions: inanalysing any argument as dialogical, the analystcan look at any two premises and infer that someimaginary opponent had asked a question afterthe first premise to elicit the second.
If thatquestion was 'Can you give me another reason?
'(ground adequacy), the resulting structure isconvergent, whereas if that question was 'Whydoes the premise support the conclusion?
'(relevance), the resulting structure is linked.
Aninductive generalisation is thus based on anumber of premises between which animaginary opponent continually asks the groundadequacy question.
The reason, Freeman claims,that inductive generalisation may be intuitivelymistaken for a linked structure is that eachpremise in itself lends only very weak support othe conclusion, and that this generally results inassumption of linkage.
Freeman's work and itsrelation to other accounts of linked andconvergent argumentation is explored more fullyin (Reed and Long, 1997b).In following Freeman's attractiveaccount of IG, it may appear that the requiredconvergent structure can be fully accounted forin the existing framework, by allowing thestandard iterative fulfilment of goals of beliefdiscussed (Reed and Long, 1997a).
However,Freeman's account, because it is analytic, omitsthe rather obvious fact that premises in an IGhave something in common with each other andwith the conclusion.
That a premise in an IG isrelated to the conclusion in some respect cannotbe handled simply by iterating through allavailable supports for an argument, since there isno way to select all and only those premiseswhich support the conclusion in the givenrespect.
Furthermore, it is important that the IGitself is seen as a unit, since it is quite1095inappropriate for subsequent ordering heuristicsto be at liberty to intersperse various deductivepremises for a conclusion in the midst of theinductive premises (or further, that if there existtwo or more IGs supporting the same conclusion- each employing a different common attribute -it is inappropriate to mix premises from thevarious arguments).
Seeing the whole IG as aunit enables appropriate scoping for reordering:the premises within the unit can be reorderedwholly within the unit, and the unit itself can bemoved around wholesale with respect to theother premises.
An IG is thus viewed in thecurrent work as a premise.
This is illustrated inthe diagrammatic argument notation as aphantom node, as shown in Figure 4./:..... -....." IG)al a2 .. .
.
.
.
a nPXb c<~- phantom nodeFigure 4.
Inductive GeneralisationThus the IG premise phantom node is generatedalong with all the other premises for a givenconclusion.
Then, after refinement, theindividual premises within the inductiveargument are determined, occurring concurrentlywith identification of supports for the otherpremises which are at the level of the inductivegeneralisation.
In the scenario illustrated inFigure 4, for example, the first round ofplanning identifies that there are three supportsfor the conclusion p, namely, a Modus Ponensargument from each of b and c, and an inductivegeneralisation.
After an appropriate order isdetermined for these three, refinement opens upthe bodies of the operators, and the supports forb and c are identified, and the inductivegeneralisation is fleshed out to include a~through a .
The process of building an inductivegeneralisation thus involves two differentoperators: the IG operator, which identifies thatan inductive generalisation is appropriate, andthe ISUP operator, which is used to select eachinductive premise.
To prevent an inductivegeneralisation from being considered at everyturn, the precondition list on IG states that theremust exist at least one premise which can beused inductively - this is a bare minimum sincean inductive generalisation employing a singlepremise is clearly very weak.
Strengthening thenotion of inductive generalisation is a trivial taskof increasing the minimum number of premiseswhich must exist for the application of IG to belicensed.The complete definitions for IG andISUP are given below in Figure 5.IG (Ag,Shell:Body:P, R)Precond: HAS_PROPERTY(P,R)HAS PROPERTY(X,R)Add: BEL(Ag, P)Goals: t0:PUSH_TOPIC(arg(R,P))t2:BEL(Ag, IG(R,P))t3: IS_SALIENT(Ag, IG(R,P),arg(R,P))t4:POP_TOPIC(arg(R,P))ISUP (Ag, P, R)Shell: Precond:Add:Body: Goals:HAS_PROPERTY (X, R)BEL(Ag, IG(R,P))t0:PUSH TOPIC (HAS_PROPERTY(X,R))tl : BEL (Ag, X)t2 : IS_SALIENT (Ag, X,HAS_PROPERTY (X, R) )t3:BEL(Ag,HAS PROPERTY(X,R))t4 : IS_SALIENT (Ag,HAS PROPERTY(X,R), HAS_PROPERTY(X,R))t5:POP_TOPIC(HAS PROPERTY(X,R)Figure 5.
Refutation operatorsA single new function is required to express thecommon feature of the premises and conclusionwhich license the inductive generalisation - thisis implemented as a simple function call tor~S_PROPERTY which determines whether or nota given property holds for a given proposition(this functionality is encapsulated in an 'oracle'following \[Cohen87\]).
In both IG and ISUP, thenotion of 'support' is thus eschewed altogetherand simply remains implicit in the fact thatpropositions are the same in respect R. It is notnecessary to introduce a new notion of support.ConclusionThis paper has presented a number of features ofthe ~(hetorica system, and has introduced thedeductive, refutation and inductivegeneralisation operators which are employed togenerate the abstract structure of an argument.
In1096related work, this abstract structure is often lost- certainly in coherence relation based NLG(such as operational RST), but also in (Elhadad,1992) (which captures ome, but not all of thecommonly found argument structures) and in(Maybury, 1993) (which fails to capture thehierarchical nature of argument).Evaluation of non-task-oriented NLG isdifficult, particularly when the output is not text,but a plan of primitive operators.
However,several evaluative observations upport theapproach.
First, though only touched upon here,the planning process produces a partiallyspecified plan in which the underspecification isprecisely that licensed by Cohen-like constraintson argument coherency (Reed and Long, 1997a)appropriated from empirical studies inargumentation theory.
Furthermore, theapproach enables these coherency constraints tobe expressed in a tractable way.
Finally, acomparison of system output with naturalarguments (of equivalent propositional content)in a small corpus suggests that the constraints ofcoherency discussed here do indeed ensure thegeneration of coherent argument structures, andthat the interplay between them and constraintsof persuasive effect facilitate the construction ofnatural language arguments which are bothcoherent and effective.ReferencesBacchus, F. & Yang, Q.
(1992) The Expected Valueof Hierarchical Problem-Solving, AAAI-92 pp.369--374Blair, H. (1838) Lectures on Rhetoric and BellesLettres, Charles Daly, LondonCohen, R. (1987) Analyzing the Structure ofArgumentative Discourse, ComputationalLinguistics 13/1, pp.
11--24Eemeren, F.H.
van, Grootendorst, R. & Snoeck-Henkemans, F. (1996) Fundamentals ofArgumentation Theor)', Lawrence ErlbaumElhadad, M. (1992) Generating Coherent ArgumentParagraphs, COLING'92, Nantes, pp.638--644Fisher, A.
(1988) The Logic of Real Arguments,Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UKFox, M. & Long., D. (1995) Hierarchical Planningusing Abstraction, IEE Proceedings on ControlTheory and Applications 142/3, pp.
197w210Freeman, J.B. (1991) Dialectics and theMacrostructure of Arguments, Foris, DordrechtGrosz, B.J.
& Sidner, C.L.
(1986) Attention,Intentions and the Structure of Discourse,Computational Linguistics 12/3, pp.
175--204Haggith, M. (1996) "A meta-level argumentationframework for representing and reasoning aboutdisagreement", PhD Thesis, Univ.
of EdinburghHass, R.G.
& Linder, D.E.
(1972) Counterargumentavailability and the effects of message structure onpersuasion, Journal of Personality and SocialPsychology 23/2 pp.219-233Hovland, C.I.
(1957) The Order of Presentation inPersuasion, Yale University Press, New HavenHovy, E. H. (1993) Automated Discourse GenerationUsing Discourse Structure Relations, ArtificialIntelligence 63, pp.
341--385Mann, W.C., Thompson, S.A. (1988) Rhetoricalstructure theor),, Text 8/3, pp.
243--281Marcu, D. (1996) Building Up Rhetorical StructureTrees AAAI'96, Portland, OregonMaybury, M.T.
(1993) Communicative Acts forGenerative Natural Language Arguments AAAI-93 pp.357--364Moore, J.D.
& Paris, C.L.
(1994) Planning Text ForAdvisor), Dialogues, Computational Linguistics19/4, pp.
651--694Ohlsson, S. & Robin, N. (1994) The Power ofNegative Thinking: The Central Role of ModusTollens in Human Cognition in "Proc.
of thel6thConf.
of the Cognitive Science Soc.
", pp.681--686Reed, C.A., Long, D.P.
& Fox, M. (1996) AnArchitecture for Argumentative Dialogue Planning,in Gabbay, D. & Ohibach, H.J.
(eds) "PracticalReasoning", Springer Verlag, pp.
555--566Reed, C.A.
& Long, D.P.
(1997a) Content Orderingin the Generation of Persuasive DiscourseIJCAI'97, Nagoya, Japan, pp.
1022--1027Reed, C.A.
& Long, D.P.
(1997b) MultipleSubarguments in Logic, Argumentation, Rhetoricand Text Generation in Gabbay, D.M., et al (eds)"Qualitative and Quantitative Reasoning", SpringerVerlag, pp.496-510Snoeck-Henkemans, F. (1997) Verbal indicators ofargumentation and explanation in "Proc.
of theOSSA Conf on Argument and Rhetoric", St.Catharines, OntarioToulmin, S. E. (1958) The Uses of Argument,Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UKWalker, M.A.
(1996) The effect of resource limitsand task complexit 3, on collaborative planning indialogue, Artificial Intelligence 85, pp.
181-2431097
