Recognition of the Coherence Relationbetween Te-linked ClausesAkira OishiSchool of Information ScienceJAIST1-1 Asahidai, Tatsunokuchi,Ishikawa 923-1292, Japanoishi~j aist .ac .jpYuji MatsumotoGraduate School of Information ScienceNAIST8916-5 Takayama, Ikoma,Nara 630-0101, Japanmat su@is, aist-nara, ac.
jpAbstractThis paper describes a method for recognizing coher-ence relations between clauses which are linked by tein Japanese - -  a translational equivalent of Englishand.
We consider that the coherence relations arecategories each of which has a prototype structureas well as the relationships among them.
By utiliz-ing this organization of the relations, we can infer anappropriate relation from the semantic structures ofthe clauses between which that relation holds.
Wecarried out an experiment and obtained the correctrecognition ratio of 82% for the 280 sentences.1 IntroductionOne of the basic requirements for understanding dis-course is recognizing how each clause coheres withits predecessor.
Our linguistic and pragmatic om-petence nables us to read in conceivable relationseven when two clauses are copresent without anyovert cues, i.e., in parataxis.There has been a variety of definitions for coher-ence relations (see (Hovy and Maier, 1993) for asurvey).
However, the definitions are rather vagueand they are often recognized to be underspecified(Moore and Pollack, 1992; Fukumoto and Tsujii,1994).
This paper attempts to explicate how suchcoherence relations arise between segments of dis-course.
We focus on re-linkage in Japanese - -  atranslational equivalent of English and-linkage, sincemere parataxis ranges over too widely to capture theunderlying principles on the coherence relations.We consider that coherence relations are cate-gories each of which has its prototypical instancesand marginal ones.
As with all instances of catego-rizations, the prototypical cases of each relation areclearly distinguishable from one another.
In somecases, however, it is often hard to make clear argu-ment for a relation being one rather than another.In addition, these relations themselves are hierar-chically organized according to their specificity.
Byconsidering the prototype of each relation, we can in-fer an appropriate relation from the semantic struc-tures of the segments between which that relationholds.2 Categorization of Te-linkageTraditionally, te-constructions have been dividedinto three categories according to the function ofte: (i) as a non-productive derivational suffix; (ii)as a linker joining a main verb with a so-called aux-iliary to form a complex predicate; and (iii) as alinker connecting two phrases or clauses.
Since thederivatives and the auxiliaries are relatively fixedcompared with the third category, we concentrateon the third category in this paper.Japanese re, like English and, is used to express adiverse range of coherence relations as shown below 1.
(1) Circumstanceitami-wo koraete hasiri-tuzuketa.pain-ACC endure-te run-continue-PAST"Enduring pain, (I) kept running.
"(2) Additivezyoon-wa karukute kinben-da.Joan-TOP be-cheerful-te diligent COPULA-PRES"Joan is cheerful and diligent.
"(3) Temporal Sequencegogo-wa tegami-wo kalte, ronbun-wo yonda.afternoon-TOP letter-ACC write-te thesis-ACC read-PAST"In the afternoon, (I) wrote letters and readthe thesis.
"(4) Cause-Effecttalhuu-ga kite, ie-ga hakai-sareta.typhoon-NOM come-te houses-NOM destroy-PASSIVE-PAST"A typhoon came, and houses were destroyed.
"1The examples are borrowed from (Hasegawa, 1996).990(5) Means-Endokane-wo karite, atarasii kuruma-wo kau.money-ACC borrow-te new car-ACC buy-PILES"(I) will borrow money and buy a car.
"(6) Contrastzyoon-wa syuusyoku-site omu-wa kekkon-sita.Joan-TOP get-a-job-re Tom-TOP marry-PAST"Joan got a job, and Tom got married.
"(7) Concessionkare-wa okane-ga t te  kasanai.he-TOP money-NOM there-be-re lend-NEG-PILES"Although he has money, (he) won't lend (it toanyone).
"When such a relation is understood to be intendedby the speaker, it is always inferable solely from theconjuncts themselves.Although re-linkage xhibits an extreme degree ofsemantic nonspecificity, it is nonetheless very com-mon in actual usage2and oes not cause problem incommunication.
We will see how such diversity ofrelations arise in the next section.3 Organ izat ion  o f  the  CoherenceRe la t ionsAlthough the semantic relations between the re-linked constituents are diverse, not all relations im-plicated by parataxis can be expressed by re-linkage(Hasegawa, 1996).
For example, if the clauses equiv-alent to I sat down and The door opened are pre-sented paratactically in Japanese, the interpreternaturally reads in a Temporal Sequence relation, justas in English.
But this relation is not an available in-terpretation when the clauses are linked by re.
Thatis, among the relations potentially implicated by twocopresent clauses, some are filtered out by re-linkage.We presume that the inherent meaning of te is"togetherness."
The only relations that fit with thismeaning are possible to arise within re-linkage.
Thenotion of "togetherness" can be divided into two cat-egories according to the temporal properties of re-lations.
One in parallel and the other in series.
Inthe former, two events occur simultaneously or two2 On the basis of a corpus of 3,330 multi-predicate s n-tences ampled from various types of text, Saeki (Saeki,1975) reports a total of 26 connectives (1,047 tokens al-together), of which te holds the foremost rank: it occurs512 times, while the second most frequent connective,9a, occurs only 141 times.
According to Inoue (Inoue,1983), te appears most frequently in spontaneous speech(34.5% of all connectives) and in informal writing (27%).In formal writing such as newspaper editorials, te rankssecond (17.2%) after ren'yoo linkage (36.9%).
The actualoccurrence of te is much more frequent than these num-bers suggest, because these data do not include cases inwhich the second predicate is a so-called auxiliary.states hold at the same time, while in the latter, twoevents occur successively.These two categories are further divided intosmaller categories according to the event structuresof conjuncts.
The category of sequential relationscontains both Cause-Effect and Temporal Sequence.When two events which are linked solely by temporalsequentiality are expressed via te-linkage, the con-juncts must share an agentive subject.
Thus, causa-tion and one person's volitional acts are sufficient obe recognized as togetherness.On the other hand, in order for the category ofparallel occurrence of events to be compatible withre-linkage, they must be homogeneous in some sense.One such example is the case where a thing has twodifferent properties (Additive) and another is thecases where two different hings have similar prop-erties or are engaged in similar events (Contrast).As for the Additive relation, the subject of the sec-ond conjunct is often omitted since it is the same asthat of the first.
In addition, both predicates of theconjuncts are stative - -  adjectives or stative verbs- -  because they have no temporal boundaries as op-posed to events and can easily hold at the same timewithin one person.
As for the Contrast relation, thesubjects of the conjuncts must be different from eachother and hence both of them are explicitly men-tioned (often marked with the contrastive wa).
Ingeneral, the similarities of the predicates appear asthe syntactic parallelism as the example (6) shows.The other sub-category of the parallel occurrenceof events is "accompaniment," where the secondclause is foregrounded and the first backgrounded.The prototypical instance of this category is the casewhere the first clause denotes a state and the secondan event, since we have a tendency to focus on achanging event rather than stable state.
Thus, theCircumstance relation composes this category.
Thecases where the first clause denotes some mannerof event are also contained in this category, since amanner accompanies an event.The notion of the manner is continuous to themeans since the means and manner of an event areoften coextensive in that the means of an event oftendetermines the manner of the event.
This is exem-plified by English with as well as Japanese de, whichare used both as an instrumental or means markerand as a marker of manner (How is similarly poly-semous) (Goldberg, 1996).The Means-End relation is also continuous to cau-sation, since the means can be interpreted as a kindof causation.
This is exemplified by Japanese doosite(why/ ow) as follows:(18) doo-site kitano?
"Why/How did you come?"
Answer:(18a) densya-de (means)"by train"(18b) aitakatta-kara (reason)991"since (I) want to meet (you)"(18b) expresses the reason why the speaker came tothe hearer - -  "the wish to meet the hearer causedhim/her to come."
Thus, this relation associates thetwo extremes i.e., parallelism and sequentiality.Finally, the Concession is closely related to bothCause and Contrast.
In the Concession relation, thefirst clause implies something and the second clausedenys it.
The implied states or events are often thoseto be caused by the events or states denoted by thefirst clause, and then denied and contrast with thesecond clause.The whole organization is shown in Figure 1.
Notetogetherneseparallel sequential./7"-..
/"-..Additive Contrast accompaniment Cause Temporal Sequence..........
2":-:.
:~Circumstance Manner Means Concession(Vw, e,g,p)go(e, y,p) ^  locational(e) A goal(g)D pp("w - ni",g) A place(g)(?w, e, g, p)go(e, y, p) A posessional(e) ^goal(g)D pp("w -- ni", g) A thing(g)(Vw, 8, y, p)be(s, y, l) A locational(e) A at(l, p)D pp("w -- ni",p) A place(p)(Vw, e, x, y)act(e, x, y) D pp("w-ga", x)Aanimate(x)(Vw, e, y, s )become( e, y, 8) ~ pp( "w -- ga", y)(?w,s,y,l)beCs, y,l) D pp("w - ga",y)(Vw, e, x, y)act(e, x, y) ~ W("v' -- o", y)(Vw, e, ~, y, 8)aS(e, ~, y) ^ become(e, y, 8)mo("w - o", y)JFigure 2: Examples of the linking rulesFigure 1: The organization of the relations with te-linkagethat this organization of the relations are viewedfrom the perspective of re-linkage.
The different or-ganizations may emerge via the other linkages.4 Recogn iz ing  the  CoherenceRe la t ions4.1 Overv iewTheoretically, it is more likely that when we haveheard/read the first clause and te, we narrow downthe possible relations by inferring the content of thesecond clause.
For example, if the first clause de-notes an action, we will infer what is caused by theaction or another action which may follow the action- -  that is, Cause or Temporal Sequence will be ex-pected.
On the other hand, if the first clause denotesa state, Circumstance or Additive will be expected.In practice, however, we have both clauses at hand.Therefore, we adopt the following algorithm:STEP1 Assume part of semantic structures of theconjuncts by reverse linkingSTEP2 Unify them with a verb's semantic struc-turesSTEP3 Infer the most feasible relation betweenthemIn STEP1, part of the semantic structure of eachclause is abductively assumed by applying linkingrules backward.
The linking rules are regular ways of(vs, y, z, l)be(s, y, l) ^ at(l, z) ~ State(s)(re, z, y)act(e, x, y) D TransAct(e)(re, z)act(e, z) D IntransAct(e)(re, y,p)go(e, y,p) A path(p) D Move(e)(re, y, s, l, z)become(e, y, s) h be(s, y, l) h at(l, z)D Achievement(e)(re, e~, e~, ~, y)act(el, x, y) ^  cause(e, e,, e~)^becomeCe~, y, s) ^  be(s, y, l)  ^ at(l, z)D Accomplishment(e)(Vs)State(s) A thing(y) A place(z) D verb("aru", e)(Vs)State(s)Aanimate(y)hplace(z) D verb("iru",e)(re)Move(e) A mannerl D verb("hashiru", e)(re)Move(e) h rnanner2 D verb("aruku",e)(Ve)Accomplishment(e)Amanner3 D verb( "nuru", e(re)Accomplishment(e) A manner4 ^ locational(e)D verb("sosogu", e)(re)Accomplishment(e) A statelhidenti f icational( e) D verb( "mitasu", e)JFigure 3: Examples of the verbs' semantic structures992mapping open arguments - -  i.e., variables of seman-tic structures whose referents can be expressed syn-tactically by a phrase within the same clause as thepredicate - -  onto grammatical functions or under-lying syntactic onfigurations by virtue of thematicroles (thematic roles are positions in a structuredsemantic representation).
In the case of Japanese,they are triggered by case particles.
In STEP2,the verb's semantic structures are invoked and uni-fied with the outputs of STEP1.
The examples ofthe linking rules and verbs' semantic structures areshown in Figure 2 and 3 respectively.However, since the real texts contain far morecomplexity and ambiguity than the examples givenin this paper, we have to correct he outputs of theprocesses manually (the gapped arguments are filledby hand).
We now focus on the processes that cal-culate the coherence relations.4.2 The  Proper t ies  Re levant  to  theCoherence  Re lat ionsWhat is essential for recognizing the coherence rela-tion between clauses is that the constituents of oneclause bear certain kind of structural relationship tothose of the other.
Although there are an infinitenumber of situations, there seems to be only a smallnumber of properties relevant o the coherence rela-tions that can hold between them.
They are:1) the identity and agentivity of the subjects inthe two clauses2) the thematic and aspectual properties of theevent denoted by each clause3) canonical events associated with the noun thatis relevant o both clausesBefore going through the use of these properties,let's consider the other information which affects ourconstrual of the relations.There are some adverbials or fixed expressionswhich coerce the interpretation i to the specific re-lation.
In addition, there are narrow-range verbclasses which specialize the implicated relation byvirtue of their inherent meaning.
For example,Table 1: The expressions that specialize the relationsverbs that take a temporal NP as the subject andmeans "the passage of time" such as sugiru(passaway), tatu(go by), keikasuru(elapse), etc., implythe Temporal Sequence relation when followed by te.Verbs that express "using" such as tukau(use}, siy-ousuru(make use of), katuyousuru(apply), etc., im-ply the Means-End relation.
They are summarizedin Table 1.
In Table 1, \[TE\] means temporal ex-pressions uch as days, months, years, centuries, etc.The verbs and fixed expressions appear in the firstclause, while the adverbials in the second.
Thesefixed expressions hould be listed as a unit in thelexicon.When these expressions appear in the test sen-tences, we can identify the relation regardless of theprocedure described below.
Otherwise, we have re-course to the aforementioned properties.4.3 The  Prototypes  and  the Extens ionsIn the previous tudy, We have classified verbs into30 semantic categories, and for each category wehave given a lexical conceptual structure (LCS) rep-resentation (Oishi and Matsumoto, 1997).
Since theLCS representation i volves lexical decomposition(Jackendoff, 1990), we can utilize the verb internalsemantic structure so as to calculate coherence rela-tions in a farely principled way.As mentioned in the introduction, we considereach relation as a category.
Categories cannot bedefined in terms of necessary and sufficient condi-tions, but rather each instance is categorized accord-ing to its similarity to the prototypes of the cate-gories (Rosch, 1973; Lakoff, 1987; Taylor, 1989).We define a prototypical structure for each rela-tion by means of the predicates used in the LCSs asfollows:?
Circumstance\[x ACT\]2 WITH \[x BE z\]x?
Additive\[x BE zx\]x AND \[x BE z212?
Temporal Sequence\[x GO TO zx\]l THEN \[x GO (FROM zx) TO z2\]~relationsTemporal SequenceMeans-EndCause-EffectCircumstance\] categoriespassage verbsending verbscontinuing verbsadverbialsfixed expressionsusing verbsfixed expressionsfixed expressionsstatic relation verbsexamplessugiru(pass away), keikasuru(elapse) ...owa u(end), oeru( ni h)...tuzuku(continue), hikituzuku(follow) ...sonogo(after that}, imadeha(nowadays} ...\[Tg\]ni-natte(set in), \[Tglhodo-site(afler)...tukau(use), siyousuru(make use of) ...ni-yotte(by means of)dake-atte(on account of), wo-ukete(given) ...sou(be parallel to), motozuku(be based) ...993?
Cause-Effect\[x ACT ON y\]~ CAUSE \[y BECOME z b?
Means-End?
Contrast\[x ACT\]2 BY  ix ACT\]Iix ACT\]I WHILE  \[y ACT\]2?
Concessionix ACT ON YL BUT \[y NOT BECOME z\]~Here, WITH,  AND,  THEN,  etc., are mnemonicnames for the relations and each can be consideredas a function that takes two events or states as itsarguments and returns a coherent event or state.We use the infix notation for each function ratherthan prefix.
The square brackets identify the se-mantic structure of a clause and their subscripts de-notes the surface ordering of the clauses linked by re.ACT,  BE, GO, and BECOME are also functions andthey correspond to actions, states, movement, andinchoatives respectively.
They express broad-rangeclasses of the events which are constructed by theprevious steps (see Figure 3).
The whole structuresincorporate the identity between the subjects of twoclauses by the variables x and y. Agentivity of eachsubject is implied by the types of the events: ACT> GO > BECOME > BE.Often, these prototypical structures are lexical-ized and expressed by a single clause.
For example,the Cause-Effect relation is lexicalized into accom-plishment verbs (Talmy, 1985) and the Means-Endrelation can be expressed by an adjunct event nounfollowed by the case particle de.
They must be ex-tended so that they can cover wider range of in-stances of re-linkage.
The result of the extension isshown in Table 2 (for cases each of which shares asubject) and Table 3 (for cases each of which hasdistinct subjects), where each column correspondsto the type of the event in the first clause and eachrow to the second.
The prototypes are boldfacedand they are extended to the other boxes with somedirections and constraints.For example, the Temporal Sequence relation hasa prototype structure, which is roughly read as"someone goes to somewhere, and then he/she goes(from there) to elsewhere."
This expresses our com-mon sense that one person cannot move along twodifferent paths at the same time, which implys thatthe two movements by a person must be sequential.This prototype is extended so as to cover such sit-uations as "someone goes to somewhere, and thenhe/she does something/becomes something/staysthere" or "someone does something/become some-thing/stays somewhere, and then he/she goes to else-where."
They are expressed by vertical and hori-zontal extensions of the prototype in Table 2.
TheTable 2: The combinations of event types (identicalsubjects)2nd clauseACTGOACTMeansCir(manner)TempSeqTempSeqCir(manner)MeansCauseMeansCir(manner)Cir(manner)1st c lauseGO \[ BECOMETempSeqTempSeq TempSeqCauseCause CauseTempSeqTempSeqI BECircumTempSeqCi rcumC i rcumCauseAdditiveCauseCircumTable 3: The combinations of event types (distinctsubjects)2nd clauseACTGOBECOMEBEIst clauseACT I GO I BECOMEContrastContrastCause  Cause ContrastCauseConcessionI BECi rcumC i rcumCauseCi rcumCont ras tC i rcummovements involved in these situations are loca-tional and the other events must be done volitionallyby the same person.
Another extension covers sit-uations where "someone does something, and thenhe/she does something else."
This is based on thefact that one person cannot generally engage in twoactions at the same time.
Of course, any type ofevents may occur sequentially.
However, there ex-ists the constraint on the fitness with te-linkage asmentioned in the previous section.The explanation for the other relations is detailedin (Oishi, 1998).As a result of the extensions, many boxes havetwo or more relations.
Notice that the nearer re-lations in the organization tend to be in the sameboxes.
To discriminate among them, we specify foreach combination of event types such algorithm asfollows (below, I(i,j) means that two clauses sharean subject and D(i,j) means that two clauses havedistinct subjects, where i is the event type of thefirst clause and j the second):?
I (ACT,ACT),  I (ACT,GO)If  either clause contains the expressions whichfix the temporal boundary, then Temporal Se-quence;else if the verb of the first clause involves a man-ner component, hen Circumstance;otherwise, Means-End.?
I (ACT,BECOME)If the second event is psychological, thenCause-Effect;994else if the verb of the first clause involves a man-ner component, hen Circumstance;otherwise, Means-End.?
I(GO,BECOME)If the second event is psychological, thenCause-Effect;otherwise, Temporal Sequence.?
I(BECOME,GO)If the first event is perceptual, then Cause-Effect;otherwise, Temporal Sequence.?
I(BE,GO)If either clause contains the expressions whichfix the temporal boundary, then Temporal Se-quence;otherwise, Circumstance.?
I(BE,BECOME)If the second event is psychological, thenCause-Effect;otherwise, Circumstance.?
I(BE,BE)If the second state is psychological, then Cause-Effect;else if the both predicates are property-denoting adjectives or nouns, then Additive;otherwise, Circumstance.?
D(BECOME,BECOME)If the both subjects are marked with wa, thenContrast;otherwise, Cause-Effect.
* I(BE,BECOME)If the first state is relational, then Circum-stance;otherwise, Cause-Effect.?
D(BE,BE)If the both subjects are marked with wa, thenContrast;otherwise, Circumstance.On the other hand, there remain some boxesblank.
They should be resolved by using the thirdproperty - -  the canonical events associated with thenoun that is relevant to both clauses.
The generativelexicon will serve the purpose (Pustejovsky, 1995).At present, however, we have not yet fully imple-mented the lexicon for nouns.
Therefore, we givethe Circumstance relation as a default.5 Exper iment  and  D iscuss ionAn experiment of recognizing coherence relations ofte-linkage were done for 280 sentences which wererandomly extracted from EDR Corpus (EDR, 1995).The analysis results are shown in Table 4, where thecoherence relations in the sentences were classifiedinto 7 categories by authors and compared with theoutputs of the program.The relations are not balanced in number.
Thisseems to be due to the genre of texts from which thetest sentences were picked up (most of them werenews articles).
The numbers in parentheses showthose of test sentences that matched with the fixedexpressions in Table 1.The precision on the whole is 82%.
This showsthat to a large extent we can cope with the problemto recognize the coherence relations between clauses(at least when linked by re), given the event ypes ofthe clauses and the fixed expressions in the lexicon.Most of errors are caused by ambiguity of the rela-tion.
There were many examples which were difficulteven for humans to make clear judgements.
This re-flects the fact that the coherence relations do nothave definite borders.However, there were some errors which show acrucial imitation of our method.
This appears as thebad marks in both precision and recall for the Con-cession relation, even though the number is small.For example, there is a test sentence such as follows:(19) ano hito-wa 82sai-ni natte, annani koukisinippal-da.that person-TOP 82-years-old-DAT become-te,so curiosity be-full-PRES"Although that person is 82 years old, (he/she)is full of curiosity.
"Table 4: The results of the experimentcoherencerelationsTemporal SequenceCircumstanceCause-EffectMeans-EndAdditiveConcessionContrastTotaljudgementby human(a)8975644533280output ofprogram(b)81/46)83(22)58(13/48(12)32280(92)number ofagreements(c)recall(%)c/a?lO0precision(%)c/b x 10079 89 9863 84 7648 75 8234 76 713 100 10033i0082 229205082995Since the combination of the event type here isI (BECOME,BE),  our program gave it the Circum-stance relation as a default.
However, we know thatin general the person who is 82 years old is notso curious, therefore the Concession relation arises.Thus, our common sense knowledge is crucial to ourrecognition of the coherence relations.
In (Hovy andMaier, 1993), they classified the Concession rela-tion as interpersonal (i.e., author-and/or addressee-related) rather than ideational (i.e., semantic), sincethey defined it as "one of the text segments raisesexpectations which are contradicted/violated by theother."
The use of interpersonal relations is predi-cated mainly on the interests, beliefs, and attitudesof addressee and/or  author.
To deal with this prob-lem, we must incorporate the notion of intentionalstructure and focus space structure (Grosz and Sid-ner, 1986).Since we have focused on te-linkage in this paper,we need not to consider how clauses are combined.However, to detect the discourse structure, we needto extend the method so as to deal with the relationsbetween sentences.
We must estimate some kind ofreliable scores among possible segments and choosethe relation having the maximum score (Kurohashiand Nagao, 1994).
These issues remain to be studiedin the future.6 SummarySince the semantic relations exhibited by re-linkagevary so diversely, it has been claimed that the inter-preter must infer the intended relationship on thebasis of extralinguistic knowledge.
The particularsof individual common sense knowledge are crucialto understanding any discourse (Hobbs et al, 1993;Asher and Lascarides, 1995).
Nevertheless, one can,through the use of the relevant structures of events,eliminate a very large number of rules for calculatingthe plausible relations.Although we have concentrated on re-linkage inthis paper, we consider that the method can beapplied to pure parataxis with necessary modifica-tions.
For the relations we have examined are notattr ibutable to the meaning of te itself (though it re-stricts the range of them), but are implicated by thelinked conjuncts.
The same is true of English and.In both and- and re-linkage, the perceived coherencerelations are present even if the linked constitutesare in pure parataxis without and or re.
Thus, thisapproach can be extended so as to detect the wholediscourse structure, though further study must bedone to examine all relations.ReferencesN.
Asher and A. Lascarides.
1995.
Lexical disambigua-tion in a discourse context.
Journal of Semantics,12(1):69-108.EDR.
1995.
The EDR Electronic Dictionary TechnicalGuide.
Japan Electronic Dictionary Research Insti-tute Ltd. (in Japanese).J.
Fukumoto and J. Tsujii.
1994.
Breaking down rhetor-ical relations for the purpose of analysing discoursestructures.
In Proceedings of the 15th COLING, vol-ume 2, pages 1177-1183.A.
E. Goldberg.
1996.
Making one's way through thedata.
In M. Shibatani and S. A. Thompson, editors,Grammatical Constructions, chapter 2, pages 29-53.Oxford University Press.B.
3.
Grosz and C. L. Sidner.
1986.
Attention, inten-tions, and the structure of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 12(3):175-204.Y.
Hasegawa.
1996.
Toward a description of te-linkagein japanese.
In M. Shibatani and S. A. Thompson,editors, Grammatical Constructions, chapter 3, pages55-75.
Oxford University Press.J.
R. Hobbs, M. Stickel, P. Martin, and D. Edwards.1993.
Interpretation as abduction.
Artificial Intelli-gence, 63(1-2):69-142.E.
Hovy and E. Maier.
1993.
Parsimoniousor profligate: How many and which discoursestructure relations, http://www.isi.edu/nat ural-language/discourse/text-planning.html.K.
Inoue.
1983.
Bun no setuzoku.
In K. Inoue, editor,Nihongo no kihon koozoo, volume 1 of Kooza gendaino gengo, pages 127-151.
Sanseido.
(in Japanese).R.
Jackendoff.
1990.
Semantic Structure.
MIT Press.S.
Kurohashi and M. Nagao.
1994.
Automatic detectionof discourse structure by checking surface informationin sentences.
In Proceedings of the 15th COLING,volume 2, pages 1123-1127.G.
Lakoff.
1987.
Women Fire, and Dangerous Things :What Categories Reveal about the Mind.
The Univer-sity of Chicago press.J.
D. Moore and M. E. Pollack.
1992.
A problemfor RST: The need for multi-level discourse analysis.Computational Linguistics, 18(4):537-544.A.
Oishi and Y. Matsumoto.
1997.
Detecting the or-ganization of semantic subclasses of Japanese verbs.International Journal of Corpus Linguistics, 2(1):65-89.A.
Oishi.
1998.
Semantic Structures Of Japanese VerbPhrases: --  Acquisition, Representation and Use --.Ph.D.
thesis, Nara Institute of Sience and Technology.
(to appear).3.
Pustejovsky.
1995.
The Generative Lexicon.
The MITPress.E.
Rosch.
1973.
Natural categories.
Cognitive Psychol-ogy, 4:328-350.T.
Saeki.
1975.
Gendai nihongo no gojun.
KasarnaShobo.
(in Japanese).L.
Talmy.
1985.
Lexicalization patterns: semantic struc-ture in lexical forms.
In T. Shopen, editor, LanguageTypology and Syntactic Description, volume 3, chap-ter 2, pages 57-308.
Cambridge University Press.3.
R. Taylor.
1989.
Linguistic Categorization *Proto-types in Linguistic Theory.
Clarendon Paperbacks.996
