Universal Grammar and Lexis for Quick Ramp-Up of MTSystemsAbstractThis paper introduces Boas, a semi-automaticknowledge licitation system that guides a team oftwo people through the process of developing thestatic knowledge sources for a moderate-quality,broad-coverage MT system from any "low-den-sity" language into English in about six months.The paper focuses on some issues in the elicitationof descriptive knowledge in Boas and also the issueof the principled reuse of pre-existing resources,such as a lexicon, an ontology, and an English gen-eration module, among others, made possible bythe fact that the client MT system is developed fora single target language.1.
Introduction: The Boas ProjectThis paper presents Boas, a semi-automatic knowl-edge elicitation system that guides a team of twopeople through the process of developing staticknowledge sources for a moderate-quality, broad-coverage MT system from any "low-density"l lan-guage into English in about six months.
Boas con-tains knowledge about human language and meansof realization of its phenomena in a number of spe-cific languages and is, thus, a kind of a "linguist inthe box" that helps non-professional acquirers withthe task, whose complexity is legendary.
2Sergei Nirenburg and Victor RaskinComputing Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, N.M. 88003, U.S.A.{ sergei, raskin } @ crl.nmsu.edudictated by the amount of language work which canbe carded out, given the resources available.
Therules of the game specifically exclude linguists andMT developers from the acquisition team.
Undersuch conditions, the only sensible course of actionis to attempt to collect as much knowledge about asmany languages as possible in advance and includeit in the elicitation system itself.Section 2 below is devoted to defining the formatof the descriptive language knowledge to be elic-ited from the acquirers through Boas.
The descrip-tive language knowledge, which we address in thispaper, is, later in the process of Boas operation,converted into operational knowledge capable ofsupporting the processes of source language analy-sis and source-target transfer.
In Section 3, we dis-cuss how work on ontological semantics in MT cancontribute to Boas in a situation of a single targetlanguage, English.
In Section 4, we address theprocedure for descriptive language knowledgeacquisition in Boas, both in terms of resources cre-ated and reused and in terms of the actual elicita-tion techniques, differentiating between theacquisition of grammatical nd lexical parameters.The knowledge about language licited by Boasfrom the acquirers aims to support MT output qual-ity which is roughly commensurate with the out-puts of the better commercial systems, such asSystran.
These relatively modest expectations are1 "Density" refers roughly to the amount of effort having beenpreviously expended in the field on computational descriptionsof particular languages, resulting inthe creation of a variety ofmachine-tractable resources--text corpora, grammars, lexi.cons, analyzers, etc.
Thus, Spanish will most probably count a;"high-density" while, say, Tagalog will not.2.
Defining Parameters for BoasThe descriptive knowledge about the source lan-guage is a set of statements about morphological,syntactic, and lexical properties (parameters) of alanguage, listed together with their values and real-ization options.
Data about each parameterincludes the language, the name of the parameter,the list of entities to which this parameter applies(its domain) and the list of parameter values (its2 We have introduced Boas and discussed some per-tinent heoretical issues in Nirenburg (1998).
In thispaper, we focus on the more practical aspects ofBoas implementation.975range).
Moreover, parameter values have an associ-ated set of realization options in each language.
Forinstance, the parameter of gender in Ukrainian isdescribed as follows:language: Ukrainianparameter: genderdomain: nouns, adjectives, possessives (head agree-ment), verbs in past enserange (parameter values): masculine, feminine, neuterrealization: \[gender markers in lexicon for nouns;inflection paradigms for adjectives, possessives andverbs in past ense\]For comparison, the Hebrew gender is describeddifferently:language: Hebrewparameter: genderdomain: nouns, adjectives, possessive (non-first-personpossessor agreement), finite verbsrange (parameter values): masculine, femininerealization: \[gender markers in lexicon for nouns; gen-der inflection paradigms for adjectives, possessives andverbs\]Instead of discovering parameters from scratch foreach language, it is preferable, in order to ensureuniformity and systematicity of Boas operation, tocome up with a complete list of all possible param-eters in natural anguages, with complete lists oftheir possible values attached.
The attainability ofsuch a resource becomes then a central issue.The terms 'parameter' and 'value' are used in ourtask in the same sense as in the school of theoreti-cal syntactic thought consecutively known as gov-ernment and binding (Chomsky 1981), principlesand parameters (Chomsky 1986) and the minimal-ist position (Chomsky 1995).
The theory postulatesa small number of general principles defining theinnate human language faculty and a larger numberof language parameters, which implement heseprinciples by selecting concrete values for particu-lar languages.
The complete set of such parametersand values constitutes a universal grammar (UG)--see also Culikover (1997), Lightfoot (1991) an(Webelhuth (1992).Unfortunately, work within this approach as no~stressed the descriptive task of creating a compre-hensive inventory of universal grammar parame-ters or even those for particular languages o\]language families.
For Project Boas, it means tha~.both the nature of the parameters it would be usingand their inventory has to be developed in-house.In order to define a set of parameters for Boas, it isessential to distinguish among the language phe-nomena that should be accorded the status ofparameter and those that should be understood asparameter values or their realizations.
Still otherphenomena may remain, at least for the task athand, outside the parameter system.
We believe,with Dorr (1993), that parameters may be under-stood as building blocks of an interlingua in MT.We reserve judgment about whether every compo-nent of an interlingua is by definition parametric 3.Thus, the parameter "lexical category" has a rangeof values { V, N, Adj, Adv, ... }.
Any of these valuesmay itself be considered a parameter.
If viewedwithin a single language, their values are, ulti-mately, all words in the language which belong tothe respective lexical categories.
The realizationsof these values are the specific forms of thesewords, which appear in text decorated with realiza-tions of appropriate values of such morphologicalparameters a NUMBER, GENDER, CASE, etc.An example of a syntactic parameter is HEAD-MOD-IFIER DEPENDENCY, whose values include suchpairs as "head: noun; modifier: adjective; .... head:verb; modifier: adverb," "head: noun; modifier:relative clause" and others.
Realization options forthese values involve word or constituent orderrules (for instance, post- or pre-posing) and agree-ment rules.Lexical parameters are viewed as language-inde-pendent lexical meanings (ontological concepts),such as TABLEFuRNITUR E. The values of this parame-ter are the word senses corresponding to this onto-logical concept across the inventory of languages.The realizations for these values are the words orphrases that express this meaning in each language,with a possibility of a lexical gap (a null value)3 Thus, for instance, a morphological nalyzer forTurkish uses information that does not have to beexpressed parametrically, such as data about nomi-nal suffixes, which one needs to know in order torecognize a noun form but which do not correspondto any parametric value that needs to be expressedin English; similarly, a Russian verbal prefix mayhelp determine the aspect value but does not realizea distinct parametric value of its own.976included.
Sense: furniture3.
Translation Environment Supported by BoasThe single-target-language (English) environmentwhich Boas serves allows for simplification of bothsystem implementation a d the acquisition processcompared to the case of multiple SLs and TLs.First, only one text synthesis module needs to bebuilt.
Second, many fewer transfer components(bilingual exicons, transduction tables for closed-class lexical items, feature and structure transfertables) are needed.
In fact, this situation almostlicenses the transfer approach, as the combinatorialargument for interlingual MT is weaker here thanin the case of multiple TLs (see, however, belowand fn.
3).
Third, it appears that knowledge acqui-sition for a new SL may be aided by the presenceof a number of resources already developed for theTL.These resources include a) the vocabulary of thegeneration lexicon which can serve as the list oflexical parameters for compiling the bilingual dic-tionary; b) a world model (ontology) providing theterms in which the senses of the English words andphrases are expressed (Boas uses the ontologyfrom the Mikrokosmos project at NMSU CRL--see Mahesh and Nirenburg 1995); c) the structureand term definitions from the text meaning repre-sentation in Mikrokosmos (see, for instance, Ony-shkevych and Nirenburg 1995), to help guideparameter licitation; d) the set of English closed-class lexical items and morphemes; e) Englishgrammar used in text synthesis, which provides theTL side of structural transfer ules in the runtimeMT system (see Figure 1 above); and f) a set of"ecological" parameters and their realizations forEnglish.
While a complete description of the use ofall of the above resources is beyond the scope ofthis paper, we will give a few brief illustrations.The list of English word senses eeds the acquisi-tion of the SL lexicon.
The acquirer first simplytranslates all the word senses into SL and then addsSL features to the corresponding entries as needed.The result is an SL-TL transfer dictionary whichalso serves as the lexicon for SL analysis.
Theacquirer gets a lemma with all its senses:Entry: table-n 1POS: nounEntry: table-n2POS: nounSense: diagramand produces the following SL lexicon entries (theexample is in Hebrew):Entry: shulxan-n 1POS: nounGender: m (plural -ot)Sense: table-nlEntry: tavla-nlPOS: nounGender: fSense: table-n2.In the examples, the senses are convenientlyexplained not in any specially designed lexicon/ontology notation, but rather through translationinto English.
Because each English translation isthe entry head for a sense which is alreadyexplained in an ontology-based semantic metalan-guage in the already existing Mikrokosmos lexi-con, Expedition can benefit from richer semanticinformation than that acquired using Boas.We usethe Mikrokosmos ontology as a search space tosupport word sense disambiguation.
The method(suggested by Jim Cowie) depends on the bilingualdictionary of the kind illustrated above.
Coarsegrain-size lexical mappings of TL word senses toontological concepts are established (for instance,chihuahua nd poodle may be both linked to theontological concept DOG).
The system, thus, knowsthat both chihuahuas and poodles have four legs,are carnivorous, domesticated, etc.The disambiguation method uses such ontologicalconstraints by computing a distance in the ontolog-ical space between ambiguous word senses on theone hand and the senses of other words in theircontext.
SL syntactic information helps to guidethe disambiguation process by providing additionalconstraints.
Thus, closeness between senses ofwords belonging to the same syntactic unit isweighed more heavily than that across unit bound-aries.The acquisition of the complete list of parametersin the single-TL environment is facilitated not onlyby the availability of the initial set of lexicalparameters but also by the prominence of the syn-977tactic and morphological parameters activated inEnglish.
Thus, for morphology and syntax, theexistence of such comprehensive grammars ofEnglish as Quirk et al (1985) allows a quickround-up of the major parameters.
One cannotalways limit oneself, however, to TL-inducedacquisition as we have demonstrated in the previ-ous section on the example of GENDER in English.4.
Source Language Knowledge AcquisitionAcquisition of descriptive knowledge about a lan-guage consists in Boas of a set of elicitation "epi-sodes."
The episodes have been clustered, veryunevenly, into six large classes, namely, morphol-ogy, closed-class items, open-class items, syntax,transfer features, and ecology.
Each episode is anHTML document, accessible through the standardWeb browsers.
Each page deals with one parameterand elicits information on its values present in thesource language as well as the realizations of thesevalues.
It is morphology which seems to requirethe greatest number of parametric episodes, thoughthe total is not very high: verbs, around 30 episodesfor the finite forms, and about 40 for the non-finiteforms; nouns, around 20; adverbs and adjectives,under 5.
Morphology does include these four sec-tions.Closed-class items are pronouns, temporal rela-tions, spatial relations, and case-like relations, e.g.,prepositional phrases (the morphological case is, ofcourse, handled in the noun section of the morphol-ogy class).
Each closed-class page deals with oneEnglish closed-class item in one appropriate senseand elicits all the possible translations of that iteminto the source language (or, more accurately, allpossible xpressions in the source language whichmay be translated into English with this item in thissense), with the complete morphological nd syn-tactic information on each such translation.Because there are, roughly, 200 closed-items inEnglish (and many other languages), this classrequires the greatest number of Web pages but theyare mot parametric and quite straightforward.Open-class items are acquired lexically, with thehelp of, essentially, one huge standard elicitationepisode/Web page.
Lexical acquisition proceeds asdescribed in Section 3 and further aided by a spe-cial resource created for Boas/Expedition: continu-ing our work on significantly reducing the numberof different senses in a lexicon entry by combiningrelated senses in MRDs (see Nirenburg et al 1995)and, more rarely, deleting the marginal ones, wehave manually reduced a combined (Mikrokosmosand other sources) English lexicon of about 28,000words to about 40,000 word senses, each of whichserves as a lexical parameter for SL acquisition.
Inaddition, frequency analyses of SL corpora willprovide the requirements for adding lexical param-eters from SL, not just TL.Syntax will have rather few elicitation episodessince much of it will be collected automaticallyfrom a large corpus, pre-tagged morphologicallyby Boas--automatically.The elicitation pages in transfer features class willdeal with non-standard transfer correpondences,and ecology with proper names, punctuation, stan-dard acronyms for numbers, and other print con-ventions of the source language.
It is unlikely to bea very numerous class and it is, of course, largelynon-parametric.It is the morphology class which has necessitatedthe heaviest use of and most remedial effort onparameter inventories.
We have largely expandedthe inventory of parameters, previously acquired inthe PROPERTY branch of the Mikrokosmos ontol-ogy: most of the "grammatical" meanings, realizedin any one of the Mikrokosmos languages, uch asEnglish, Spanish, and Chinese, are alreadyrecorded and systematized there.
We have also hadto compile what we hope to turn out to be the mostcomplete list of both parameters and their values,such as noun case (around 30 values), verb mood(about a dozen), verb aspect (about two dozen),etc.A standard morphological episode elicits the val-ues for a parameter which the user has alreadymarked as present in the source language on theprevious Web page.
The moment the box for thatparameter was checked there, the user is taken tothe values page, where Boas offers a complete listof existing values for that parameter and requeststhat the user select all that apply.Two additional factors deserve a special mention.First, each elicitation episode is supported withcontext-sensitive online help, which can be alsoaccessed as a complete morphological, syntactic,closed-class, etc.
tutorial.
This tutorial, as far as we978know, is the only available sketch of universalgrammar.
Secondly, each parameter and valuechoice provides for the selection of "other"unlisted values, and great care is taken to assist heuser in naming the parameter or value as well asdetermining the appropriate values for each user-introduced parameter with the appropriate realiza-tions.At the conclusion of each elicitation cycle, such asnouns or verb finite forms, all the elicited informa-tion is presented to the user for checking, correct-ing, and editing in the form of a paradigm table,which id the Cartesian product of all the estab-lished parameters and values.
The user is alsoguided through the parts of the source languagegrammar which deals with exceptional paradigms.It should be also noted that, in open-class acquisi-tion, the paradigms for each acquired source lan-guage item will be assigned to one of the alreadyestablished types or, alternatively, a new excep-tional type will be added, if necessary.The most difficult issues in acquisition involve thetranscategorial realization of values, such as thesignalling of a noun case in the verb or non-stan-dard clitics, or the lexical realizations in SL ofgrammatical parameters in TL, such as the possibleabsence of continuous tenses in a SL and thechoice of a grammatical realization of such lexicalvalues as "right now" in the SL as the present con-tinuous marker on the corresponding verb.
Interest-ingly also, clitics and similar morphological"complications" of source languages are unlikelyto present a significant problem either in elicitationor in transfer, primarily because of the single targetlanguage nvironment in Boas and ensuing lack ofnecessity to generate (rather than just to analyze)much morphological complexity.5.
Conclusion: Computational FieldLinguistics?Boas exemplifies the broad-coverage descriptiveapproach to NLP (see, for instance, Nirenburg andRaskin 1996) and adds to it a complementary newcommitment to developing and using automatedfield-linguistic methodology (cf.
Nirenburg 1998).This goes hand in hand with the evolving reorienta-tion of theoretical linguistics from selective theo-rizing, in terms of prevalent atomistic rulepostulation and testing, back to the primary goal oflinguistics, which is a theory-based languagedescription.A full evaluation of Boas, that is, the developmentof the first actual SL to English MT system over asix-month time interval, will take place within thenext two years.AcknowledgmentsThe research reported in this paper was sup-ported by Contract MDA904-92-C-5189 with theU.S.
Department of Defense.
Victor Raskin isgrateful to Purdue University for permitting him toconsult CRL/NMSU.ReferencesChomsky, N. 1981.
Lectures on Government andBinding.
Dordrecht: Foris.Cbomsky, N. 1986.
Knowledge of Language: Its Na-ture, Origin, and Use.
New York: Praeger.Chomsky, N. 1995.
The Minimalist Program.
Cam-bridge, MA: MIT Press.Comrie, B., and N. Smith 1977.
Lingua DescriptiveStudies: Questionnaire.
Lingua 42:1, pp.
1-72.Culikover, P. W. 1997.
Principles and Parameters.
AnIntroduction to Syntactic Theory.
OxfordUniversity Press.Dorr, B.
1993.
Interlingual Machine Translation: A Pa-rametrized Approach.
Artificial Intelligence 63,429-92.Lightfoot, D. 1991.
How to Set Parameters.
Cam-bridge, MA: MIT PressMahesh, K., and S. Nirenburg 1995.
Semantic Classifi-cation for Practical Natural Language Process-ing.
In: Proceedings of the Sixth ASlS SIG/CR Classification Research Workshop: AnInterdisciplinary Meeting.
Chicago, IL.Nirenburg, S. 1998.
Project Boas: "A Linguist in theBox" as a Multi-Purpose Language Resource.In: Proceedings of The First LexicalResources and Evaluation Conference.Granada, Spain.Nirenburg, S., and V. Raskin 19961 Ten Choices in Lexi-cal Semantics.
MCCS-96-304, Las Cruces,N.M.
: NMSU CRL.Nirenburg, S,, V. Raskin, and B. Onyshkevych 1995.Apologiae Ontologiae.
TMI '95, Leuven.Onyshkevych, B., and S. Nirenburg.
1995.
"A Lexiconfor Knowledge-Based MT."
MachineTranslation, 10:1-2, pp.
5-57.Quirk, R., S. Greenbaum, G. Leech, and J. Svartvik1985.
A Comprehensive Grammar of theEnglish Language.
London: Longman.Webelhuth, G. 1992.
Principles and Parameters ofSyntactic Saturation.
New York and Oxford:Oxford University Press.979
