Possessive Pronominal Anaphor Resolution in Portuguese Written TextsIvandr6 Paraboni, Vera Lficia Strube de LimaPUCRS - Instituto de Inform~iticaAv.
Ipiranga, 6681 prrdio 1690619-900 - Porto Alegre RS - Brasilphone # 55 51 320-3500/3611 Fax # 55 51 3203621paraboni@tca.com.br, ve a@andros.inf.pucrs.brAbstractThis paper describes a proposal forPortuguese possessive pronominal anaphor(PPA) resolution, a problem little consideredso far.
Particularly, we address the problemof Portuguese 3rd person intrasententialPPAs seu/sua/seus/suas (his/her/their/its, forhuman and non-human subjects in English),which constitute 30% of pronominaloccurrences in our corpus (Brazilian lawsabout environment protection).
Consideringsome differences between PPAs and otherkinds of anaphors, such as personal ordemonstrative pronouns, we define threeknowledge sources (KSs) for PPA resolution:surface patterns (taking in account factorssuch as syntactic parallelism), possessiverelationship rules and sentence centering.These knowledge sources are organized in ablackboard architecture for PPA resolution,which provides both knowledge andprocedure distribution among autonomousentities (reflexive agents), each of themspecialized in a particular aspect of theproblem solving.
The proposal has beenimplemented and its results are discussed atthe end of the work.1.
IntroductionMost work on anaphor resolutionapply syntactic constraints (c-command,gender and number agreement, etc) to selectfor humanEnglish),pronominal(Brazilianprotection).the appropriate anaphoric referent.
However,these constraints are not suitable forpossessive pronominal anaphor (PPA)resolution in Portuguese, which requires amore specific approach.This paper describes a resolutionstrategy for a problem little considered so far,PPAs "seu/sua/seus/suas" (his/her/their/its,and non-human subjects inwhich constitute 3 0% ofoccurrences in our corpuslaws about environmentThe paper is structured as follows.We present some characteristics ofPortuguese PPAs (section 2).
We thendescribe some factors in PPA resolution andthe way these factors can determine PPAsantecedents (section 3).
Factors areimplemented as knowledge sources in ablackboard architecture (section 4), andfinally we present the results of ourimplementation (section 5).2.
The PPA resolution problemFrom the interpretation point of view,PPAs are widely different from other kinds ofanaphors, such as personal or demonstrativepronouns.
In this section we present somespecific characteristics of Portuguese PPAs"seu/sua/seus/suas", by means of genericexamples in natural anguage.
Some of theseexamples, however, may be inappropriate in1010English version, when using pronouns"his/her/their/its".First, we notice the lack of gender ornumber agreement between PPAs and theirantecedents.
The English version of example1 has a trivial solution, based on syntacticconstraints, but the Portuguese version isambiguous:Ex 1: Jo~o falou a Maria sobre seu cachorro.
(John told Mary about his dog).Example 2 shows that PPAs canoccur in several grammatical (usually, non-subject) positions.
Besides, in example 3, wenotice that PPAs can refer to differentsegments of a "NP-of-NP-of-NP..." chain.This kind of structure, with several NPs inthe same chain, is typical in our domain.Ex 2: Joao viu um cachorro trazendo seu jomal I seufilhote.
(John saw a dog bringing his newspaper I itspuppy).Ex 3: O pai do garotinho vendeu sua casa.
(The fatherof the little boy sold his house).O dono do c~o vendeu seu carro I seu filhote.
(Theowner of the dog sold his car \[ its puppy).In some situations, PPAs like shownin example 2 and 3 can be solved by applyingsemantic knowledge, since PPAs establishpossessive relationships (in concrete orfigurative sense) between objects indiscourse.
For example, a human being canusually possess "his car", but a dog cannot.However, we have found in our corpusseveral PPAs, namely abstract anaphors,which cannot be particularly related to anysemantic object.
For example, we have PPAssuch as "their importance", their relevance",etc.
Similarly, we have found also someabstract antecedents, uch as "the problem","the importance", etc.Finally, we notice that, in our corpus,we have to treat long and complex sentencestructures, which are typical in the domain(laws) that we are dealing with.
Thus, despitePPAs in our corpus are mostly (99%)intrasentential, there is a high number ofcandidates for each anaphor.3.
Factors in PPA resolutionThis section describes a minimal setof factors in PPA resolution, based on corpusinvestigation.
These factors will beconsidered in place of traditional syntacticconstraints, which are not suitable for ourpresent problem, as shown in section 2.
Inour proposal, because of the structuralcomplexity of sentences in the domain, wehave adopted a practical approach, based onsimple heuristic rules, with a view toavoiding syntactic and semantic analysis.Similar strategies have been adopted inseveral recent works in anaphor esolution,such as T. Nasukawa (1994), R. Mitkov(1996), R. Vieira & M. Poesio (1997) andothers.We have defined 6 simple factors inPPA resolution (F 1 to F6) based on syntactic,semantic and pragmatic knowledge, aimingto determine PPAs antecedents in ourspecific domain.
As a secondary goal, weapply our proposal also to PPAs in a differentdomain (see section 5).
Factors, enunciatedas heuristic rules, will act as constraints (F1to F5) or preferences (F6), as established byJ.
Carbonell (1988).3.1.
Syntactic levelSince typical syntactic onstraints arenot suitable for PPA resolution, in ourapproach we have limited the role ofsyntactic knowledge to simple heuristic rulesbased on surface patterns.
Surface patternsare typical expressions in the domain, whichgave information about PPAs antecedents.
Toeach relevant surface pattern, we haveassociated a heuristic rule.
Some of these1011rules can directly elect, with high rate ofsuccess, the most probable antecedent,whereas others can only exclude a specificcandidate:F1 - in the pattern <NP and I or PPA>, <NP>must be elected the most probable antecedentof<PPA>.
Ex: "John and his dog";F2 - in the pattern <of NP...of PPA>, <NP>must be elected the most probable antecedentof<PPA>.
This rule deals with some cases ofsyntactic parallelism.
Ex: "the death of Suzy,of her children and...";such as <city owns habitants>, <ecosystemowns natural resources> etc.In order to apply this kind ofknowledge to the whole corpus, we havedefined object classes and possiblepossessive relationships among them.
Forexample, for the anaphor "their hunt" in ourcorpus, there is a semantic rule which expectsonly a member of the class <animals> as asuitable antecedent.
Typical members of thisclass would be "birds", "mammals" and allrelated expressions found in our corpus.Based on this organization we have definedanother factor in PPA resolution:F3 - in the patter <NP of PPA>, <NP> is nota valid candidate for <PPA>.
Ex: in "thedeath of his son", "death" is not a validcandidate;F4 - in the pattern <NP of NP of NP... ofNP>, only the full chain and the last NP canbe considered candidates for PPAsantecedents, i.e., NPs in the middle of thechain can be discarded.
This rule adapts thestudy developed by L. Kister (1995) for NPchains in French, and it constitutes animportant mechanism for reducing the highnumber of candidates in our current problem.3.2.
Semantic levelHeuristic rules based on surfacepatterns are not sufficient to discriminateamong a large set of candidates, as we foundin our domain.
Thus, we also use semanticknowledge in order to increase the results.Our semantic approach considers possessiverelationship rules in the form <Obj 1 ownsObj2 >, used to represent "part-of"relationships between typical entities of thedomain, according to J. Pustejovsky's (1995)semantic theory.
For example, in our corpussome PPAs can be solved with knowledgeF5 There must be a valid possessiverelationship between a PPA and itsantecedent.3.3.
Pragmatic levelWorking together, surface patternsand possessive relationships can deal withmany PPAs found in our corpus, but we stillhave two problems to be solved: semanticambiguity among two or more acceptablecandidates and abstract anaphors/antecedents,which cannot be solved by simply applyingpossessive relationship rules.For these cases, and possibly for someother cases not included in previous rules, wesuggest a pragmatic factor, adapted from S.Brennan's et al(1987) centering algorithm.Although sentence center plays a crucial rolein many works in anaphor esolution, usuallylimiting the number of candidates to beconsidered, we notice that, because PPAs canrefer to almost any NP in the sentence (ratherthan, for example, personal pronouns, whichare often related to the sentence center),pragmatic knowledge plays only a secondary- but still important - role in our approach.We have adapted basic aspects of centeralgorithm, considering subject/objectpreference, and domain concepts preference,1012suggested by R. Mitkov (1996), aiming toestimate the most probable center forintrasentential PPAs.
Thus, in case ofambiguity among candidates (after applyingfactors F1 to F5), we will consider theestimated center as the preferable PPAantecedent.
This constitutes our final rule:F6 - the sentence center will be preferredamong remaining candidates.4.
A distributed architecture forPPA resolutionFactors have been grouped in threeknowledge sources (KSs), as part of ablackboard architecture, based on D.Corkill's (1991) work, as shown in figure 1.KSs are independent modules pecialized indifferent aspects of PPA resolution problem(surface patterns, possessive relationships,sentence center), providing both knowledgeand procedure distribution amongautonomous entities (specialists).Since in our proposal knowledge andprocedure are represented by heuristic rules,KSs have been implemented as reflexiveagents, according to S. J Russel & P. Norvig(1995) work.
A reflexive agent is a rule-based entity, which acts according to theperceived environment (the blackboardstructure).The blackboard is a global databasecontaining information about the problemPPA1PPA Solver \[1antecedent(PPA) to be solved: sentence structureinformation and a set of hypotheses(candidates) to be evaluated by specialists(KSs).
The specialists watch the blackboard,looking for a PPA problem to be solved, andevaluate the given data.
Specialists can elect,discard or assign preferable candidates,according to their condition-action rules.The resolution process is coordinatedby PPA solver agent, a specialist in PPAresolution.
When the PPA solver agentreceives a PPA resolution requirement, itwrites the initial data (in our currentimplementation, for intrasentential PPAs, allprevious NPs in the sentence are consideredas part of the initial set of candidates) ontothe blackboard and activates the specialists.After each contribution, the PPA solverevaluates the number of remainingcandidates and the possible need for furthercontributions.
At the end of the cycle, in caseof ambiguity, the PPA solver will choose thepreferred candidate, as determined by thesentence center specialist.The motivations for adopting ablackboard architecture are the benefits ofheterogeneous knowledge distribution andindependence among KSs.
These benefitswill allow us to expand the architecture,adding new factors in PPA resolution or evenadding new specialists, dedicated to differentanaphoric phenomena.blackboardhypotheseshipl hiP2 hip3 hiP4 hip5 ..... hip.SurfacePatternsKSPossessiveRelationshipsKSSentenceCenterKSFigure i - a distributed architecture for PPA resolution10135.
ResultsWe have examined 198 PPAs from acorpus on Brazilian laws about environmentprotection.
As a result of our implementation,we have achieved a success rate of 92,97%.We evaluate this result as very successful,considering the small set of factors taken inaccount.We have also examined PPAs in asecond text genre, taking sentences frommagazine scientific articles.
Within thesetexts, we have taken 100 intrasententialPPAs, and our strategy has chosen a correctantecedent in 88% of the cases.
Thisdeterioration, as a consequence of somedifferent surface pattern occurrences, i  to beexpected in a new text genre.As a future work, we aim to expandthe architecture, by means of adding newspecialists and improving the controlmechanism, in order to solve intersententialPPAs and different kinds of pronouns, suchas demonstrative and personal.AcknowledgementsThis work was sponsored byCNPq/Protem grant 680081/95-0, as part ofthe NALAMAS - Natural Language Multi-agent systems - project.ReferencesBrennan, S.E., Friedman, M.W.
& Pollard,C.J.
(1987) A centering approach topronouns.
In: proceedings of the 25 th ACL.Carbonell, J.G.
& Brown, R.D.
(1988)Anaphora Resolution: A Multi-StrategyApproach.
In: proceedings ofCOLING '88, Budapest, Hungary.Corkill, D.D.
(1991).
Blackboard Systems.
AIExpert 6(9):40-47 Sept 91.Kennedy, C. & Boguraev, B.
(1996)Anaphora for Everyone: PronominalAnaphora Resolution without a Parser.
In:proceedings of COLING '96, Copenhagen,Denmark.Kister, L. (1995) Accessibilit6 Pronominaledes DET.
N1 de (DET.)
N2: le R61e de laD6termination.
LingvisticaeInvestigationes XIX:I.
107-121.
JohnBenjamins Publ.
Co., Amsterdam.Mitkov, R. (1996) Attacking Anaphora onAll Fronts.
In: A. Ramsey (ed.).
ArtificialIntelligence: Methodology, Systems,Applications.
IOS Press..Nasukawa, T. (1994) Robust Method ofPronoun Resolution using Full-textInformation.
In: proceedings ofCOLING '94, Kyoto, Japan.Pustejovsky, J.
(1995) The GenerativeLexicon.
MIT Press, Cambridge.Russel, S. J.
& Norvig, P. (1995) ArtificialIntelligence: a modern approach.Prentice-Hall, New Jersey.Sauvage-Wintergerst, C. (1992) Parall~lismeet Traitement Automatique des Langues:Application it l'Analyse des Enonc~sElliptiques.
Universit6 de Paris-Sud (Phdthesis).Stuckardt, R. (1996) Anaphor Resolution andthe Scope of Syntactic Constraints.
In:proceedings of COLING '96, Copenhagen,Denmark.Vieira, R. & Poesio, M. (1997) Processingdefinite descriptions in corpora.University of Endinburgh, Scotland.1014
