A step towards the detection of semantic variants of terms intechnical documentsTh ier ry  Hamon and Ade l ine  NazarenkoLaboratoire d ' Informat ique de Paris-NordUniversit~ Paris-NordAvenue J-B Clement93430 Vil letaneuse, FRANCEthierry.hamon@lipn.univ-paris l3.fradel ine.nazarenko@lipn.univ-parisl3.frC~ci le  GrosEDF-DER- IMA-T IEM-SOAD1 Avenue du G~n~ral de Gaulle92141 Clamart  CEDEX,  FRANCEcecile.gros@der.edfgdf.frAbst rac tThis paper reports the results of a preliminaryexperiment on the detection of semantic vari-ants of terms in a French technical document.The general goal of our work is to help the struc-turation of terminologies.
Two kinds of seman-tic variants can be found in traditional termi-nologies : strict synonymy links and fuzzier re-lations like see-also.
We have designed threerules which exploit general dictionary informa-tion to infer synonymy relations between com-plex candidate terms.
The results have beenexamined by a human terminologist.
The ex-pert has judged that half of the overall pairs ofterms are relevant for the semantic variation.He validated an important part of the detectedlinks as synonymy.
Moreover, it appeared thatnumerous errors are due to few mis-interpretedlinks: they could be eliminated by few exceptionrules.1 In t roduct ion1.1 S t ructur ing  a terminologyThe work presented here is a part of an indus-trial project of Technical Document Consulta-tion System (Gros et al, 1996) at the Frenchelectricity company EDF.
The goal is to developtools to help a terminologist in the constructionof a structured terminology (cf.
figure 1) pro-viding :?
te rms  of a domain, i.e.
simple or com-plex lexical units pointing out accurate con-cepts in a technical document, (Bourigault,1992);?
semantic links such as the see-also relation.This can be viewed as a two-step rocess.
Thecand idate  te rms (i.e.
lexical units which canbe terms if a domain expert validates them) arefirst automatically extracted from the technicaldocument with a Terminology Extraction Soft-ware (LEXTER) (Bourigault, 1992).
The listof candidate terms is then structured into a se-mantic network.
We focus on the latter pointby detecting semantic variants, especially syn-onyms.ligne a~rienne (overhead line)See_also : D~part a~rien (overhead outlet)Synonym : Liaison ~lectrique a~rienne(overhead electric link)Ligne simple (single circuit line)Is_a : Ligne a~rienne (overhead line)Ligne multiterne (multiple circuit line)ls_a : Ligne a~rienne (overhead line)Synonym : Ligne double (double circuit line)Figure 1: Example of a structured terminologyin the electric domain.In order to build a structured terminology,we thus attempt to link candidate terms ex-tracted from a French technical document 1.For instance, from synonyms uch as matgriel(equipment) / dquipement (fittings), marche(running) /fonctionnement (working) and nor-mal (normal) / bon (right), we infer a synonymylink between candidate terms matdriel dlec-trique (electric equipment) / dquipement dlec-trique (electrical fittings) and marche normale(normal running) / bon fonctionnement (rightworking).As the terms used in this paper have been extractedfrom French documents, their translation, especially forthe synonymy, does not always how the same nuancethan originally.498modNe (model) : < 1 > canon (canon), ~talon (standard),exemplaire (copy), example (example),plan (plan)< 2 > sujet (subject), maquette (maquette)< 3 > h~ros (hero), type (type)< 4 > 4chantillon (sample), specimen (sample)< 5 > standard (standard), type (type),prototype (prototype)< 6 > maquette (model)< 7 > gabarit (size), moule (mould), patron (pattern)Figure 2: Example of a word entry from the dictionary Le Robert.1.2 Using a general language dictionaryfor specialized corporaAs domain specific semantic information is sel-dom available, our aim is to evaluate the rel-evance and usefulness of general semantic re-sources for the detection of synonymy betweencandidate terms.For this study, we used a French generaldictionary Le Robert supplied by the InstitutNational de la Langue Franqaise (INaLF).
Itprovides synonyms and analogical words dis-tributed among the different senses (cf.
figure 2)of each word entry.
It is exploited as a machine-readable synonym dictionary.We use a 200 000 word corpus about electricpower plant.
Its size is typical of the technicaldocuments.
It is very technical if one consid-ers the dictionary lemma coverage for this cor-pus (45%).
Concerning two other available doc-uments dealing with software engineering andelectric network planning, the dictionary lemmacoverage is respectively of65% and 57%.
In thatrespect he chosen corpus is the worse case forthis experiment.The present corpus has been analyzed bythe Terminology Extraction Software LEX-TER which extracted 12 043 candidate terms(2 831 nouns, 597 adjectives and 8 615 nounphrases).
Each complex candidate term (ligned'alimentation, supply line) is analyzed into ahead (ligne, line) and an expansion (alimenta-tion, supply).
It is part of a syntactic network(cf.
figure 3).2 Method  for  the  detect ion  ofsynonymous te rmsThe terminological variation include morpho-logical (fiectional, derivational) variants, syn-tactic variant (coordinated and compoundterms) but also semantic variant (synonyms, hy-peronyms) of controlled terms.
In this experi-ment, we attempt o infer synonymy links be-tween candidate terms.2.1 Semantic variation and synonymyrelat ionSemantic variation The semantic variationincludes relations (e.g.
synonymy and see-also)between words of the same grammatical cate-gory, even if one may also take into consider-ation phenomena such as elliptic relations orcombination of synonymy and derivation rela-tions (e.g.
heat and thermal) where the cate-gories may be different.Fuzzier relations uch as the traditional see-also relations of terminologies are also very use-ful.
Once a link is established between twoterms, it is sometimes easy to interpret for theterminology users.
Moreover, for applicationssuch as document retrieval, the link itself is of-ten more important than its very type.Synonymy We use a synonymy definitionclose to that of WordNet (Miller et al, 1993).It is defined as an equivalence relation betweenterms having the same meaning in a particu-lar context.
The transitivity rule cannot be ap-plied to the links extracted from the dictionary.Indeed, while the synonymy is sometimes verycontextual in the dictionary, the links appear inthe data without context information and wouldproduce a great deal of errors.
Thus, for in-stance, the synonymy links between the adjec-tives polaire (polar) and glacial (icy) and the ad-jectives glacial (cold) and insensible (insensitive)would allow to deduce a wrong synonym linkbetween polaire and insensible.Moreover, tests carried out on dictionarysamples show that the relevant links which499Yligne (line)ligne a@rienne(overhead line) ?ligne simple (single line)ligne double (double line)ligne d'alimentationH(supply line)(...)ligne a~rienne haute tension(hight voltage overhead line)ligne a~rienne moyenne tension(middle voltage overhead line)alimentation (supply)capacit@ de transit de la ligne (transit capacity of the line)cofit d'investissement de la ligne(cost of investissement of the line)d6clenchement dela ligne9(tripping of the line) Elongueur de la ligne (size of the line)puissance caract@ristique d  la ligne (caracteristic power of the line)ordre de d~clenchement(order of tripping)de la ligne (of the line)...)Figure 3: Fragment of the syntactic network (H = head, E = expansion).Number of simple terms extractedNumber of retained wordsat the filtering stepPercentage ofretained wordsat the filtering stepNouns Adjectives Total2 831 597 3 4281 134 408 1 54240% 68% 45%Table 1: Coverage of the corpus by the dictionary.could be added thanks to the transitivity rulesalready exist in the dictionary.
For instance thefollowing words are synonymous pairwise: lo-gement (accommodation), demeure (residence),domicile (residence) and habitation (house).We consider all links provided by the dictio-nary as expressing synonymy relation betweensimple candidate terms and design a two-stepautomatic method to infer links between com-plex candidate terms.2.2 F i rs t  step: Dict ionary data f i l ter ingIn order to reduce the database, we first fil-ter the relevant dictionary links for the stud-ied document.
For instance, the link matdriel(equipment) / dquipement (fittings) is selectedbecause its both ends, materiel and 6quipementexist in the studied corpus.
For this document,3 369 synonymy links between 1 542 simpleterms are preserved.Table 1 shows the results of the filtering stepin regard to the coverage of our corpus by thedictionary.2.3 Second step: Detect ion  o fsynonymous  candidate termsAssuming that  the semantics and the synonymyof the complex candidate terms are composi-tional, we design three rules to detect synonymyrelations between candidate terms.
Consider-ing two candidates terms, if one of the followingconditions is met, a synonymy link is added tothe terminological network:- the heads are identical and the expansionsare synonymous (collecteurg~ndral (generalcollector) / collecteur commun (commoncollector));- the  heads are synonymous and the ex-pansions are identical (matdriel dlectrique(electric equipment) / dquipement ~lectrique(electrical fittings));- the heads are synonymous and the expansionsare synonymous (marche normale (normalrunning) / bon fonctionnement (right work-ing));500We first use the dictionary links as a boot-strap to detect synonymy links between com-plex candidate terms.
Then, we iterate the pro-cess by including the newly detected links inour base until no new link can be found.
In thepresent experiment, he process ends up afterthree iterations.3 Resu l ts  and  s tudy  of the  detectedl inks3.1 Various detected  linksSynonymy links 396 links between complexcandidate terms (i.e.
noun phrases) are inferredby this method.
An expert of the domain vali-dated 37% of them (i.e.
146 links, cf.
table 2)as real synonymy links: hauteur d'eau (waterheight) / niveau d'eau (level of water), d~t~ri-oration notable (notable deterioration) / d6gra-dation importante (important damage) (cf.
fig-ure 4).Number PercentageValidated links 146 37%Unvalidated links 250 63%Total 396 100%Table 2: Results of the link validation.Most of the synonymy links between candi-date terms are detected at the first iteration(383 liens out of 396).
The majority of the val-idated links are given by the two first rules: 89validated links out of 206 with the first rule (ad-mission d'air (air intake) / entrde d'air (air en-try)), 49 out of 105 with the second (toitflottant(floating roof) / toil mobile (movable roof) andcollecteur gdndral (general collector) / colleeteurcommun (common collector)).
Obviously, thelast rule has a lower precision rate: 8 out of85 (fausse manoeuvre (wrong operation) / mau-valse manipulation (bad handling)).
However,it infers important links which are difficult todetect by hand.Other  useful l inks On the whole, the expertjudged that half of the detected links are usefulfor the terminology structuration even if he re-jected some of them as real synonymy links (cf.figure 5).
Our method detects different ypes oflinks: meronymy, antonymy, relations betweenclose concepts, connected parts of a whole mech-anism, etc.The meronymy links are the most numerousafter synonymy (rapport de s~retd (safety report)/ analyse de s~retd (safety analysis)).
In theprevious example, whereas rapport (report) andanalyse (analysis) are given as synonyms by thegeneral anguage dictionary (which is context-free), their technical meanings in our documentare more specific.
Therefore, rapport de s~retdis a meronym rather than a synonym of analysede s~retd in the studied document.Other detected links allow to group the can-didate terms which refer to related concepts.For instance, we detected a link between thedevice ligne de vidange (draining line) and theplace point de purge (blow-down point) which isrelevant since a draining line ends at a blow-down point.
Likewise, it is useful to link fin devidange (draining end) which designates an op-eration and destination des purges (blow-downdestination) which is the corresponding equip-ment.The expert considered that the link be-tween the candidate terms (commande md-canique (mechanical control) / ordre automa-tique (automatic order)) expresses an antonymyrelation, although it is infered from the syn-onymy relation of the dictionary mdeanique(mechanical) / automatique (automatic).
It ap-pears that those adjectives have a particularmeaning in the present corpus.
Therefore, ev-ery link detected from this "synonymy" link isan antonymy one.Those links express various relations some-times difficult to name, even by the expert.Such links are important in a terminology.3.2 Po lysemy,  elision and metaphorMost real errors are due to the lack of con-text information for polysemic words and thenoisy data existing in the dictionary.
For in-stance the French word temps means eithertime or weather.
According to the dictio-nary, temps (weather) is a synonym of temper-ature (temperature) 2, but this meaning is ex-cluded from the present corpus.
Since we can-not distinguish the different meanings, the syn-onymy of temps / time and temperature is takenfor granted.
Temps attendu (expected time)and tempdrature attentive (expected tempera-2 It would be more precise to interpret i as analogouswords.501Term 1 Term 2d~t~rioration notable(notable deterioration)fausse manoeuvre (wrong operation)action de l'op~rateur(action of the operator)capacit~ interne (internal capacity)capacit~ totale (total capacity)capacit~ utile (useful capacity)limite de solubilit~ (limit of solubility)marche manuelle (manual running)tests p~riodiques (periodic tests)hauteur d'eau (water height)panneau de commande (control panel)d~gradation importante(important damage)mauvaise manipulation (bad handling)intervention de l'op6rateur(intervention of the operator)volume interne (internal volume)volume total (total volume)volume utile (useful volume)seuil de solubilit6 (solubility threshold)fonctionnement manuel (manual working)essais p~riodiques (periodic trials)niveau d'eau (level of water)tableau de commande (control board)Figure 4: Examples of synonymy links between complex candidate terms.Term 1 Term 2essai en usine (test in plant)ligne de vidange (draining line)fonction d'un temps (fonction of a time)froid normal (normal cold)rapport de sfiret~ (safety report)solution d'acide borique(solution of boric acid)temperature attendue(expected temperature)temperature normale (normal temperature)organes de commande (control devices)gros d~bit (big flow)activit~ importante (important activity)commande m~canique (mechanical control)risques de corrosion (risk of corrosion)experience d'exploitation(experiment of exploitation)point de purge (blow-down point)effet d'une temperature(effect of a temperature)refroidissement correct (correct cooling)analyse de sfiret~ (safety analysis)dissolution de l'acide borique(dissolving of the boric acid)temps attendu (expected time)temps normal (normal time)organes d'ordre (order devices)plein d~bit (full flow)activit~ ~lev~e (high activity)ordre automatique (automatic order)risques de destruction (risk of destruction)Figure 5: Examples of rejected linksture) are thus given as synonymous.
This typeof wrong links is rather important in the listpresented to the expert: between 10 to 20 linksout of 396.On the contrary, about ten wrong links aredue to the elision of common terms in the do-main.
For instance, the term activitd (activity)which actually corresponds to the term radioac-tivitd (radioactivity) in the document is given asa synonym of gnergie (energy) in the dictionary.between complex candidate terms.We have detected links such as activitd haute(high activity) / haute dnergie (high energy).As regards metaphor, we have observed thatit preserves emantic relation.
For instance, ingraph theory, the link (arbre (tree) / feuille(leaf)) can be inferred from the meronyny in-formation of general dictionary.Those types of wrong links are easily iden-tified during the validation.
Some exceptionsrules can be designed to first regroup those links502and then eliminate them.
With that aim, weplan to use dictionary definitions.3.3 Evaluat ionThe inferred links express not only synonymy,but also other relations which may be difficultto name.
Apart from real errors, these fuzzysee-also relations are useful in the context of aconsultation system.The results of this first experiment are en-couraging.
Although the precision rate and thenumber of links are low (37%, 396 links), theuse of complementary methods (e.g.
detectionof syntactic variants) would allow to propagatethese links and increase their number.
Also,the use of other knowledge sources or differentmethods (Habert et al, 1996) is necessary toincrease precision rate and find links betweenmore technical candidate terms.As regards the improvement of such amethod, the terminology acquisition by an ex-pert will take tens of hours while the automaticextraction takes one hour and the validation ofthe links has been done in two hours.The main difficulty is to evaluate the recall inthe results because there is no standard refer-ence in that matter, giving the overall relevantrelations in the document.
One may think thatthe comparison with links manually detected byan expert is the best evaluation, but such man-ual detection is subjective.
Regarding the vali-dation by several experts, it is well-known thatsuch validation would give different results de-pending on the background of each expert (Sz-pakowicz et al, 1996).
So, we are reduced tocompare our results with those obtained by dif-ferent methods even though they are not perfecteither.
We are planning to compare the clustersfound by our method with the clustering one of(Assadi, 1997) to study how the results overlapand are complementary.4 Re la ted  worksThe variant detection in specialized corporamust be taken into account for information re-trieval.
This complex operation involves thesemantic as well as the morphological andsyntactic level.
(Jacquemin, 1996) design aunification-based partial parser FASTER whichanalyses raw technical text while meta-rulesdetect morpho-syntactic variants of controlledterms (blood cell, blood mononuclear cell).
Byusing morphological and part-of-speech mod-ules, the system are extended to the verbalphrases (tree cutting, tree have been cut down)(Klavans et al, 1997).
Dealing with syntac-tic paraphrase in the general anguage, (Dras,1997) propose a similar representation by usingthe STAG formalism to detect syntactic relatedsentences.
Because we deal with the semanticlevel, our work is complementary of those.Semantic variation is rarely studied in spe-cialized domains.
Works on word similarity andword sense disambiguation are generally basedon statistical methods designed for large or evenvery large corpora (Hindle, 1990; Agirre andRigau, 1996).
Therefore, they cannot be ap-plied for technical documents which usually aremedium size corpora.
However, dealing withalready linguistic filtered data, (Assadi, 1997)aims at statistically build rough clusters sup-posing that similar candidate terms have similarexpansions.
Then he relies on human expertisefor the semantic interpretation.
It differs fromour work which tries to automatically explicitthe semantic relations.
In order to disambiguatenoun objects in a short text (30 000 words),(Li et al, 1995) design heuristic rules using se-mantic similarity information in WordNet andverbs as context.
Their system disambiguate anencouraging number on noun-verb pairs if oneconsiders ingle and multiple sense assigned toa word.In (Basili et al, 1997), the lexical knowledgebase WordNet (Miller et al, 1993) is used as abootstrap for verb disambiguation.
They tuneit to the domain of the studied document bytaking into account he contexts in which theverbs are used.
This tuning leads both to elimi-nate certain semantic ategories and to add newones.
For instance, the category contact is cre-ated for the verb to record.
The resulted senseclassification is thus a better description of theverb specialized meanings.Our symbolic and dictionary-based approachis close that of (Basili et al, 1997).
They bothuse general anguage information (traditionaldictionary vs. WordNet) for specialized cor-pora.
However, their goals differ: disambigua-tion vs. semantic relation identification.5035 Conclusion and future worksThe use of a synonym dictionary and the rules ofsynonymous candidate terms detection we havedesigned allow to extract an encouraging num-ber of links in a very technical corpus.
An ex-pert validated these links.
More than one thirdof the detected links are synonymy relations.Beside synonymy, our method detects variouskinds of semantic variants.
Wrong links due tothe polysemy can be easily eliminated with ex-ception rules by comparing selectional patternsand generalized contexts (Basili et al, 1993; Gr-ishman and Sterling, 1994).Our work shows that general semantic dataare useful for the terminology structuration andthe synonym detection i a corpus of specializedlanguage.
The results how that semantic vari-ants can be automatically detected.
Of course,the number of acquired links is relatively lowbut our method is not to be used in isolation.AcknowledgmentThis work is the result of a collaboration withthe Direction des Etudes et Recherche (DER)d'Electricit~ de France (EDF).
We thank Marie-Luce Picard from EDF and Benoit Habert fromENS Fontenay-St Cloud for their help, DidierBourigault and Jean-Yves Hamon from the In-stitut de la Langue Fran~aise (INaLF) for thedictionary and Henry Boccon-Gibod for the val-idation of the results.ReferencesE.
Agirre and G. Rigau.
1996.
Word sensedisambiguation using conceptual density.
InProceedings of COLING'96, pages 16-22,Copenhagen, Danmark.H.
Assadi.
1997.
Knowledge acquisition fromtexts: Using an automatic clustering methodbased on noun-modifier elationship.
InProceedings of ACL'97- Student Session,Madrid, Spain.Roberto Basili, Maria Teresa Pazienza, andPaola Velardi.
1993.
Acquisition of selec-tional patterns in sublanguages.
MachineTranslation, 8:175-201.Roberto Basili, Michelangelo Della Rocca, andMaria Teresa Pazienza.
1997.
Contextualword sense tunig and disambiguation.
Ap-plied Artificial Intelligence, 11:235-262.D.
Bourigault.
1992.
Surface grammaticalanalysis for the extraction of terminologicalnoun phrases.
In Proceedings ofCOLING'92,pages 977-981, Nantes, France.Mark Dras.
1997.
Representing paraphrases u -ing synchronous tree adjoining rammars.
Inproceedings ofthe 1997 Australian NLP Sum-mer Workshop, Syndney, Australia.Ralph Grishman and John Sterling.
1994.
Gen-eralizing automatically generated selectionalpatterns.
In Proceedings of Coling'94, vol-ume 3, pages 742-747, Kyoto.C.
Gros, H. Assadi, N. Aussenac-Gilles, andA.
Courcelle.
1996.
Task models for techni-cal documentation accessing.
In Proceedingsof EKA W'96, Nottingham.Beno~t Habert, Elie Naulleau, and AdelineNazarenko.
1996.
Symbolic word cluster-ing for medium-size corpora.
In Proceedingsof COLING'96, volume 1, pages 490-495,Copenhagen, Danmark, August.D.
Hindle.
1990.
Noun classification frompredicate-argument structures.
In Proceed-ings of ACL'90, pages 268-275, Pittsburgh,PA.C.
Jacquemin.
1996.
A symbolic and surgi-cal acquisition of terms through variation.
InE.
Riloff et G. Scheler S. Wermter, editor,Connectionist, Statistical and Symbolic Ap-proaches to Learning/or Natural LanguageProcessing, pages 425-438, Springer.J.
Klavans, C. Jacquemin, and E. Tzouker-mann.
1997.
A natural language approach tomulti-word term conflation.
In Proceedings ofthe third Delos Workshop - Cross-LanguageInformation Retrieval.Xiaobin Li, Stan Szpakowicz, and Stan Matwin.1995.
WordNet-based algorithm word sensedisambiguation.
I  Proceedings of IJCAI-95,pages 1368-1374, Montreal, Canada.G.
A. Miller, R. Beckwith, C. Fellbaum,D.
Gross, and K. Miller.
1993.
Introduc-tion to WordNet: An on-line lexical database.Technical Report CSL Report 43, CognitiveScience Laboratory, Princeton.Stan Szpakowicz, Stan Matwin, and KenBarker.
1996.
WordNet-based word sensedisambiguation that works for short texts.Technical Report TR-96-03, Department ofComputer Science, University of Ottawa, On-tario, Canada.504
