Building Parallel LTAG for French and ItalianMade-H616ne CanditoTALANA & UFRL, Universit6 Paris 7, case 7003, 2, place Jussieu 75251 Paris Cedex 05 Francemarie-helene.candito@linguist.jussieu.frAbstractIn this paper we view Lexicalized TreeAdjoining Grammars as the compilation of amore abstract and modular layer of linguisticdescription : the  metagrammar (MG).
MGprovides a hierarchical representation of lexico-syntactic descriptions and principles thatcapture the well-formedness of lexicalizedstructures, expressed using syntactic functions.This makes it possible for a tool to compile aninstance of MG into an LTAG, automaticallyperforming the relevant combinations oflinguistic phenomena.
We then describe theinstantiation of an MG for Italian and French.The work for French was performed startingwith an existing LTAG, which has beenaugmented as a result.
The work for Italian wasperformed by systematic contrast with theFrench MG.
The automatic compilation givestwo parallel LTAG, compatible for multilingualNLP applications.1.
In t roduct ionLexicalized Tree Adjoining Grammars(LTAG) is a formalism integrating lexicon andgrammar (Joshi, 87; Schabes et al 88) : itsdescription units are lexicalized syntactic trees,the elementary trees.
The formalism isassociated with a tree-rewriting process thatlinks sentences with syntactic structures (ineither way), by combining the elementary treeswith two operations, adjunction and substitution.We assume the following linguistic features forLTAG elementary trees (Kroch & Joshi, 85;Abeili6, 91; Frank, 92):?
lexicalization : elementary trees are anchoredby at least one lexical item.?
semantic oherence : the set of lexical itemson the frontier of an elementary tree formsexactly one semantic unit t.?
large domain of locality : the elementarytrees anchored by a predicate containpositions for the arguments of the predicate.This last feature is known as the predicate-argument cooccurrence principle (PACP).Trees anchored by a predicate represent theminimal structure so that positions for allarguments are included.
These argumentalpositions are extended either by receivingsubstitution or by adjoining at a node.Adjunction is used to factor out recursion.Figure 1 shows two elementary trees anchoredby the French verbal form mange (eat-pres-sg),whose arguments in the active voice are asubject NP and a direct object NP 2.
The firsttree shows all arguments in canonical position.The second tree shows a relativized subject and apronominal object (accusative clitic).
Theargumental nodes are numbered, according totheir oblicity order, by an index starting at 0 inthe unmarked case (active).
So for instance inpassive trees, the subject is number l, not 0.NO* SSNO V~~O N 1 ,LI mange ~~V r tqui Cl15 V0ImangeFigure 1: 2 elementary trees anchored by mangeThough LTAG units used during derivation arelexicalized trees, the LTAG internalrepresentation makes use of "pre-lexicalized"structures, that we will call tree sketches, whoseanchor is not instantiated and that are shared byseveral exicalized trees.
The set of tree sketchesthus forms a syntactic database, in which lexicalitems pick up the structures they can anchor.Families group together tree sketches that arelikely to be selected by the same lexeme: thetree sketches may show different surfacerealization of the arguments (pronominal cliticrealization, extraction of an argument, subjectinversion...) or different diathesis - -matchingsbetween semantic arguments and syntacticThus semantically void lexical forms (functionalwords) do not anchor elementary trees on their own.And words composing an idiomatic expression aremultiple anchors of  the same elementary tree.2 The trees are examples from a French LTAG (Abeill6,91), with no VP node (but this is irrelevant here).
The,1, means the node must receive substitution.
The *means the node must adjoin in another tree.211functions-- (active, passive, middle..) or both.The lexical forms select their tree sketches byindicating one or several families, and features.The features may rule out some tree sketches ofthe selected family, either because ofmorphological clash (eg.
the passive trees areonly selected by past participles) or because ofidiosyncrasies.
For instance, the French verbpeser (to weight) can roughly be encoded asselecting the transitive family, but it disallowsthe passive diathesis.It remains that tree sketches are large linguisticunit.
Each represents a combination of linguisticdescriptions that are encoded separately in otherformalisms.
For instance, a tree sketch is ingeneral of depth > 1, and thus corresponds to apiece of derivation in a formalism using CFrewrite rules (cf (Kasper et al 95) for thepresentation of an LTAG as a compiled HPSG).This causes redundancy in the set of treesketches, which makes it difficult to write ormaintain an LTAG.
Several authors (Vijay-Shanker et al 92- hereafter (VSS92)- ; Becker,93; Evans et al 95) have proposed practicalsolutions to represent in a compact way anLTAG.
The idea is to represent canonical treesusing an inheritance network and to derivemarked syntactic constructions from base treesketches using lexico-syntactic rules.
(Candito, 96), building on (VSS92), defines anadditional ayer of linguistic description, calledthe metagrammar (MG), that imposes a generalorganization for syntactic information andformalizes the well-formedness of lexicalizedstructures.
MG not only provides a generaloverview of the grammar, but also makes itpossible for a tool to perform automatically thecombination of smaller linguistic units into atree sketch.This process of tree sketch building iscomparable to a context-free derivation - in thegeneration way-  that would build a minimalclause.
A first difference is that CF derivation isperformed for each sentence to generate, whilethe tree sketches are built out of an MG atcompile time.
Another difference is that whileCF derivation uses very local units (CF rules),MG uses partial descriptions of trees (Rogers etVijay-Shanker, 94) more suitable for theexpression of syntactic generalizations.MG offers a common, principle-based frame forsyntactic description, to fill in for differentlanguages or domains.
In section 2 we presentthe linguistic and formal characteristics of MG(in a slightly modified version), in section 3 thecompilation in an LTAG, and in section 4 wedescribe the instantiation of the MG for Frenchand Italian.
Finally we give some possibleapplications in section 5.2.
The metagrammarFormally the MG takes up the proposal of(VSS92) to represent grammar as a multipleinheritance network, whose classes specifysyntactic structures as partial descriptions oftrees (Rogers & Vijay-Shanker, 94).
While treesspecify for any pair of nodes either a precedencerelation or a path of parent relations, thesepartial descriptions of trees, are sets ofconstraints that may leave underspecified therelation existing between two nodes.The relation between two nodes may be furtherspecified, either directly or by inference, byadding constraints, either in sub-classes or inlateral classes in the inheritance network.In the MG, nodes of partial descriptions areaugmented with feature structures : one for thefeature structures of the future tree sketches andone for the features that are specific to the MG,called meta-features.
These are, for instance, thepossible parts of speech of a node or the index(cf Section l) in the case of argumental nodes.So a class of an instantiated MG may specify thefollowing slots :?
the (ordered) list of direct parent classes?
a partial description of trees?
feature structures associated with nodes 3Contrary to (VSS92) nodes are global variableswithin the whole inheritance network, andclasses can add features to nodes withoutinvolving them in the partial description.Inheritance of partial descriptions i monotonic.The aim is to be able to build pre-lexicalizedstructures respecting the PACP, and to grouptogether structures likely to pertain for the samelexeme.
In order to achieve this, MG makes useof syntactic functions to express eithermonolingual or cross-linguistic generalizations(cf the work in LFG, Meaning-Text Theory or3 Actually the tree description language --that we willnot detail here-- involves constants, that name nodes ofsatisfying trees.
Several constants may be equal andthus name the same node.
The equality is either inferedor explicitly stated in the description.212Relational Grammar (RG) - see (Blake, 90) foran overview).
Positing syntactic functions,characterized by syntactic properties, allows toset parallels between constructions for differentlanguages, that are different in surface (for wordorder or morpho-syntactic marking), but thatshare a representation in terms of functionaldependencies.
Within a language, it allows toabstract from the different surface realizationsof a given function and from the differentdiathesis a predicate can show.So in MG, subcategorization (hereafter subcat)of predicates is expressed as a list of syntacticfunctions, and their possible categories.Following RG, an initial subcat is distinguished,namely the one for the unmarked case, and ismodifiable by redistribution of the functionsassociated with the arguments of the predicate.Technically, this means that argumental nodesin partial descriptions bear a meta-feature"initial-function" and a meta-feature "function".The "function" value is by default the "initial-function" value, but can be revised byredistribution.
Redistributions, in a broad sense,comprise :?
pure redistributions that do not modify thenumber of arguments (eg.
full passive).?
reductions of the number of arguments (eg.agentless passive)?
augmentations of the number of arguments(mainly causative).In MG, structures haring the same initial subcatcan be grouped to form a set of structures likelyto be selected by the same lexeme.
For verbalpredicates, a minimal clause is partly representedwith an ordered list of successive subcats, fromthe initial one to the final one.
Minimal clausessharing a final subcat, may differ in the surfacerealizations of the functions.
The MG representsthis repartition of information by imposing athree-dimension i heritance network4:?
dimension 1: initial subcat?
dimension 2: redistributions of functions?
dimension 3: surface realizations ofsyntactic functions.4 More precisely a hierarchy is defined for each categoryof predicate.
Dimension 2 is primarily relevant forverbal predicates.
Further, remaining structures, forinstance for argument-less lexemes or for auxiliaries andraising verbs are represented in an additional network,by classes that may inherit shared properties, but thatare totally written by hand.In an instantiated MG for a given language, eachterminal class of dimension 1 describes a possibleinitial subcat and describes partially the verbalmorpho-syntax (the verb may appear with afrozen clitic, or a particle in English).
Eachterminal class of dimension 2 describes a list o fordered redistributions (including the case of no-redistribution).
The redistributions may impose averbal morphology (eg.
the auxiliary forpassive).
Each terminal class of dimension 3represent he surface realization of a function(independently of the initial function).
For someinter-dependent realizations, a class mayrepresent he realizations of several functions(for instance for clitics in romance languages).Terminal classes of the hand-written hierarchyare pieces of information that can be combinedto form a tree sketch that respects the PACP.For a given language, some of the terminalclasses are incompatible.
This is stated either bythe content of the classes themselves or withinan additional set of language-dependentconstraints (compatibility constraints).
Forinstance a constraint is set for French, to blockcooccurrence of an inverted subject with anobject in canonical position (while this ispossible for Italian).3.
Compilation of MG to LTAGThe compilation is a two-step process,illustrated figure 2.
First the compilerautomatically creates additional classes of theinheritance network : the "crossing classes".Then each crossing class is translated into oneor several tree sketches.Hand-Written Hierarchy| initial subcat I I  llsurface realizations oi\[I I  funct,o  IJ U/' I' .d~.
"s  I )(,,,~_~_~_~___ ~ ~IL"  " /\ "~'~:.',".
":'.7~ J ~-"~bd'v'lL, "^uto,,~t~'c rat,onv ...... v,~ ~ .
. '
I kL ' ,  ~"  of cla.,q.~eslanguage dependentCompatibilityconstraints~C~dimension 2redistributions offunctions ,?...
"~,,~ CrossingTranslation intoLTAG families213Figure 2 : Compilation of MG to LTAG3.1 Automatic extension of the hierarchyA crossing class is a linguistic description thatmust fulfill the PACP.
Using syntactic functionsand the three-dimension partition, MG makesmore precise this well-formedness principle.
Acrossing class is a class of the inheritancenetwork that is automatically built as follows:?
a crossing class inherits exactly one terminalclass of dimension 1?
then, a crossing class inherits exactly oneterminal class of dimension 2These two super-classes define an ordered list ofsubcat, from the initial one to the f ina l  one.?
then, a crossing class inherits classes ofdimension 3, representing the realizations ofevery function of the final subcat.Further, for a crossing class to be well-formed,all unifications involved during the inheritanceprocess must succeed, either for featurestructures or for partial descriptions.
Clashesbetween features or inconsistencies in partialdescriptions are used to rule out some irrelevantcrossings of linguistic phenomena.
Finally, thecompatibility constraints must be respected (cfSection 2).3.2 Translation into LTAG familiesWhile crossing classes specify a partialdescription with feature structures, LTAG usetrees.
So the compiler takes the "representative"tree(s) of the partial description (see Rogers &Vijay-Shanker, 94 for a formal definition).Intuitively these representative trees are treesminimally satisfying the description.
There canbe several for one description.
For example, therelative order of several nodes may beunderspecified in a description, and therepresentative trees show every possible order.A family is generated by grouping all the treescomputed from crossing classes that share thesame class of dimension 1.4.
Metagrammars  for French andItalian : a contrastWe have instantiated the metagrammar forFrench, starting with an existing LTAG (Abeill6,91).
The recompilation MG---~LTAG insurescoherence (a phenomena is consistently handledthrough the whole grammar) and completeness(all valid crossings are performed).
The coverageof the grammar has been extended 5.Then we have adapted the French MG to Italian,to obtain a "parallel" LTAG for Italian, closewith respect o linguistic analyses.
The generalorganization of the MG gives a methodology forsystematic syntactic contrast.
We describe somepieces of the inheritance network for Frenchand Italian, with particular emphasis ondimension 2 and, in dimension 3, on the surfacerealizations of the subject.4.1 Dimension 1We do not give a description of the contentof this dimension, but rather focus on thedifferences between the two languages.
A firstdifference in dimension 1 is that for Italian,there exist verbs without argument 6(atmospheric verbs), while for French, a subjectis obligatory, though maybe impersonal.Another difference, is known as theunaccusative hypothesis (see (Renzi, 88, vol I)for an account).
It follows from syntacticevidence, that the unique argument of avere-selecting intransitives (eg.
(I)) and essere-selecting intransitives (the unaccusatives, eg.
(2)) has different behavior when post-verbal:(1) *Ne hanno telefonato tre.
(of-them have phoned three)Three of them have phoned(2) Ne sono rimaste tre.
(of-them are remained three)Three of them have remained.We represent unaccusatives as selecting aninitial object and no initial subject.
Aredistribution in dimension 2 promotes thisinitial object into a special subject (showingsubject properties and some object proTperties,like the he-licensing shown in (2)) .
Thisredistribution is also used for specifying passiveand middle, which both trigger unaccusativebehavior (see next section).s The number of tree sketches passed from 800 to 1100lwithout causative trees).An alternative analysis would be to consider that heseverbs select a subject pronoun, that is not realized inItalian (pro-drop language).7 We take a simpler approach than RG, which accountsfor most of the Italian data.
Unhandled are the auxiliarychange for verbs, when goal-phrases are added (see(Dini, 95) for an analysis in HPSG).2144.2 Dimension 2The MG for French and Italian cover thefollowing types of redistribution s : passive,middle, causative and impersonal (only forFrench).
Causative verbs plus infinitives areanalysed in Romance as complex predicates.
Dueto a lack of space will not describe theirencoding in MG here.
Figure 3 shows theinheritance links of dimension 2 for French(without causative).
Terminal classes are shownwithout frame.V~~,7~s,v~Figure 3 : Dimension 2 for French (without causative)The verbal morphology is affected byredistributions, o it appears in the hierarchy.The hierarchy comprises the case of no-redistribution, that inherits an activemorphology : it simply states that the anchor ofthe future tree sketch is also the verb thatreceives inflexions for tense, agreement...Refering to the notion of hierarchy of syntacticfunctions (A la Keenan-Comrie), we can say thatthe redistributions hown comprise a subjectdemotion (which can be a deletion) and apromotion of an element o subject.For active impersonal (3), the subject is demotedto object (class SUBJECT---~OBJECT), and theimpersonal il is introduced as subject (classIMPERS---~SUBJECT).
(3) I1 est arriv6 trois lettres pour vous.
(IL is arrived three letters for you)There arrived three letters for you.Passive is characterized by a particularmorphology (auxiliary bearing inflections + pastparticiple) and the demotion of subject (which iseither deleted, class SUBJECT--->EMPTY, ordemoted to a by-phrase, class SUBJECT--~AGT-OBJ), but not necessarily by a promotion of theobject to subject (class OBJECT---->SUBJECT) (cf(Comrie, 77)).
In French, the alternative toobject promotion is the introduction of theimpersonal subject (class IMPERS---~SUBJECT )9.This gives four possibilities, agentless personal(4), full personal (5), agentless impersonal (6),full impersonal, but this last possibility is notwell attested.
(4) Le film sera projet6 mardi prochain.The movie will be shown next tuesday.
(5) La voiture a 6t6 doubl6e par un v61o.The car was overtaken by a bike.
(6) I1 a 6t6 d6cr6t6 l'6tat d'urgence.
(IL was declared the state of emergency)The state of emergency was declared.Middle is characterized by a deletion of thesubject, and a middle morphology (a reflexiveclitic se).
Here also we have the alternativeOBJECT--~SUBJECT (7) or IMPERS--->SUBJECT(8).
The interpretation is generic or deontic in French.
(7) Le th6 se sert ~ 5h.
(Tea SE serves at 5.
)One should serve tea at 5.
(8) I1 se dit des horreurs ici.
(IL SE says horrible things here)Horrible things are pronounced in here.Now let us contrast his hierarchy with the onefor Italian.
Figure 4 shows dimension 2 forItalian.l~OBJECT ~ EX'ITc.~DED- SO BJ ECT iPERSONAL PASSIVEFigure 4 : Dimension 2 for Italian (without causative)In Italian, what is called impersonal (9a) is aspecial realization of subject (by a clitic sO,meaning either people, one or we.
(cfMonachesi, 95).
The French equivalent is the8 The locative alternation (John loaded the truck withoranges/John loaded oranges into the truck), is notcovered at present ime, but can easily be added.
Itrequires to choose an initial subcat for the verb.9 So we do not analyse impersonal passive as passive towhich apply impersonal.
This allows to account for the(rare) cases of impersonal passives with no personalpassive counterpart.215nominative clitic on (9b).
(9a) it.
Si parti.
(SI left) People / we left.
(9b) fr.
On partit.This impersonal si is thus coded as a realizationof subject, in dimension 3, and we have noIMPERS---~SUBJECT promotion for the Italiandimension 2.
The impersonal si can appear withall redistributions except he middle.
The Italianmiddle is similar to French, with a reflexiveclitic si.
Indeed impersonal si, with transitiveverbs and singular object (10), is ambiguous witha middle analysis (and subject inversion).
(10) Si mangia il gelato.
(SI eat-3sg the ice-cream)The ice-cream is eaten.With a plural nominal object, some speakers donot accept impersonal (with singular verb (11 a))but only the middle (with verb agreement (1lb)).
(1 la) Si mangia le mele.
(SI eat-3sg the apples)(1 lb) Si mangiano le mele.
(SI eat-3pl the apples)Another difference with French redistributions,is that when the object is promoted, in passiveor middle, it is as a subject showing unaccusativebehavior (eg.
he-licensing, cf section 4.1).
Torepresent this, we use the classOBJECT---~EXTENDED-SUBJECT, which is alsoused for the spontaneous promotion of initialobject of unaccusative intransitives (cf section4.1).
So for Italian, passive (agentless or full)and middle (1 lb) comprise a subject demotion (amandatory deletion for middle) and thepromotion OBJECT--~EXTENDED-SUBJECT,while for intransitive unaccusatives, thispromotion is spontaneous.Other differences between French and Italianconcern the interaction of causative with otherredistributions : passive and middle can applyafter causative in Italian, but not in French.4.3 Dimension 3We describe in dimension 3 the classes for thesurface realizations of subject.
This function isspecial as it partially imposes the mode of theclause.
The subject is empty for infinitives andimperatives I?.
Adnominal participial clauses areto See (Abeill~, 91) for the detail of the linguisticanalyses chosen for French.
We describe here thehierarchical organization.represented as auxiliary trees that adjoin on a N,the subject is the foot node of the auxiliary tree(we do not detail here the different participialclauses).For French (Figure 5), when realized, the subjectis either sentential, nominal or pronominal(clitic).
Nominal subjects may be in preverbalposition or inverted, relativized or cleft.
Theselast two realizations inherit also classesdescribing relative clauses and cleft clauses.Sentential subjects are here only preverbal.
Cliticsubjects are preverbal (post-verbal subject cliticsare not shown here, as their analysis is special).Note that in dimension 2, the classIMPERS---~SUBJECT specifies that the subject isclitic, and dominates the word il.
This will onlybe compatible with the clitic subject realization./ I~ON.R~,~Z~,E~ t~,U~'~j~ ~k SUBJECTFigure 5 : SubJect realizations for FrenchFor Italian, (Figure 6), the hierarchy for subjectsis almost the same : a class for non-realizedsubjects is added, since Italian is a pro-droplanguage, and pronominal subjects are notrealized.
But we mentioned in section 4.2 thespecial case of the impersonal subject clitic si.To handle this clitic, the Italian class for cliticsubject introduces the si.Figure 6 : Subject realizations for Italian(differences with French in bold)2165.
ApplicationsThe two LTAG for French and Italian are easyto maintain, due to the hierarchicalrepresentation i MG.
They can be customizedfor language domains, by cutting subgraphs ofthe inheritance network in MG.The MG for French is currently used to maintainthe French LTAG.
It has also been used togenerate the tree sketches for the text generatorG-TAG (Danlos & Meunier, 96), based on TAG.The generator makes use of tree sketchescharacterization as a set of features ---called t-features-  such as <passive>, <infinitival-clause>...
This characterization has beenstraightforward to obtain with therepresentation f the tree sketches in MG.Further, the two MG for French and Italian canprovide a basis for tranfer between syntacticstructures for Machine Translation.
LTAGelementary trees correspond to a semantic unit,with (extendable) positions for the semanticarguments if any.
(Abeill6, et al 90) propose topair elementary trees for the source and targetlanguages and to match in these pairs theargumental positions of the predicate.
Oncethese links are established, the synchronousTAG procedure can be used for translation.The argumental positions correspondance isstraightforward to state within the MGframework.
We plan to define an automaticprocedure of tree-to-tree matching using MGrepresentations for source and target languages,once the initial functions of arguments arematched for pairs of predicates.
This procedurewill make use of sets of t-features tocharacterize tree sketches (as in G-TAG) derivedat the MG--->LTAG compilation time.Correspondances between t-features or sets oft-features have to be defined.ReferencesA.
Abeill6, 1991 : Une grammaire lexicalis6ed'arbres adjoints pour le fran~ais.
Ph.D.thesis.
Univ.
Paris 7.A.
Abeill6, Y. Schabes, A. Joshi, 1990 : UsingLexicalized TAG for Machine Translation.COLING'90.T.
Becker, 1993 : HyTAG : a new type of TreeAdjoining Grammars for Hybrid Syntacticrepresentation of  Free Order Languages,Ph.D.
thesis, Univ of Saarbrticken.M-H. Candito, 1996 : A principle-basedhierarchical representation of LTAG.COLING'96.B.
Comrie, 1977 : In defense of spontaneousdemotion : the  impersonal passive.
Syntaxand semantics ~ Grammatical functions >>Cole & Saddock.Danlos, L Meunier, F, 1996 : G-TAG, unformalisme pour ia g6n6ration de textes :pr6sentation et applications industrielles.ILN'96, Nantes.L.
Dini, 1995 : Unaccusative behaviors.Quaderni di Linguistica.
9/95.R.
Evans, G. Gazdar, D. Weir, 1995 : EncodingLexicalized TAG in a non-monotonicinheritance hierarchy.
ACL'95.R.
Frank, 1992 : Syntactic locality and TreeAdjoining Grammar: Grammatical,Acquisition and Processing Perpectives.Ph.D.
thesis.
Univ.
of Pennsylvania.R.
Kasper, B. Kiefer, K. Netter, K. Vijay-Shanker, 1995 : Compilation of HPSG toTAG.
ACL'95.I.
Mel'cuk, 1988 : Dependency Syntax: Theoryand Practice.
State Univ.
Press NY, Albany(NY).P.
Monachesi, 1996 : A grammar of Italianclitics.
Ph.D. thesis.
Univ.
of Tilburg.L.
Renzi, 1988 : Grande grammatica diconsultazione (3 vol.)
I1 Mulino, Bologna.J.
Rogers, K. Vijay-Shanker, 1994 : Obtainingtrees from their descriptions : an applicationto Tree Adjoining Grammars.
ComputationalIntelligence, vol.
10, # 4.Y.
Schabes, A. Joshi, A. Abeill6, 1988 : Parsingstrategies with lexicalized grammars : Treeadjoining grammars.
COL1NG'88.K.
Vijay-Shanker, Y. Schabes, 1992 : Structuresharing in Lexicalized TAG.
COLING'92.217
