Long Distance Pronominalisation and Global FocusJanet Hitzeman and Massimo PoesioCSTR and HCRC, University of Edinburgh2 Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh EH8 9LW, Scotland{J. Hi t z eman, Mass  imo.
Poes io} @ed.
ac.
ukAbstract (1)Our corpus of descriptive text contains a signifi-cant number of long-distance pronominal references(8.4% of the total).
In order to account for how thesepronouns are interpreted, we re-examine Grosz andSidner's theory of the attentional state, and in par-ticular the use of the global focus to supplementcentering theory.
Our corpus evidence concerningthese long-distance pronominal references, as wellas studies of the use of descriptions, proper namesand ambiguous uses of pronouns, lead us to con-clude that a discourse focus stack mechanism of thetype proposed by Sidner is essential to account forthe use of these referring expressions.
We suggestrevising the Grosz & Sidner framework by allowingfor the possibility that an entity in a focus space mayhave special status.1 MotivationWe call LONG-DISTANCE PRONOMINALISATIONSthose cases of pronoun use in which the antecedentof the pronoun does not occur either in the samesentence as the pronoun or in the immediately pre-ceding one, but further back in the text.
These casesare thought o be rare on the basis of studies suchas (Hobbs, 1978), which found that 98% of pro-noun antecedents in the corpus analysed were in thesame sentence as the pronoun or the previous one.However, our analysis of a small corpus of oral de-scriptions of museum items collected for the ILEXproject (Hitzeman et al, 1997) revealed that long-distance pronouns are much more common in thiskind of data -four times as common, in fact: out ofa total of 83 pronouns, 7 (8.4%) were long-distance.The typical pattern of long-distance pronominalisa-tion in the ILEX dialogues is shown in (1), where thepronoun him in the last sentence refers to the jew-eller, mentioned most recently two sentences ear-lier.JO: Okay, thank you.
Shall we look at the object incase number 16, number 1 ?
There's a set of threeobjects here.LG: 1.
Yes.2.
What these symbolise for me are one of the pre-occupations of the 1980s, which is recycling.3.
The jeweller who made these bangles was par-ticularly interested in the idea of using intrinsicallyworthless material- material that had been thrownaway, old junk- and he lavished on those materialsan incredibly painstaking and time-consuming tech-nique, so that the amount of time put into the labourof making these jewels bears absolutely no relationto the value of the materials that he's used.4.
And if you look at, for instance, the bangle at thebottom- that's the blue and red one-  what looks asthough it's painted decoration is in fact inlaid; it'sbits of cut-off razor-blade, biro, knitting needles, in-laid into layer after layer of resin, which is done inemulation of Japanese lacquer technique.5.
And that particular bangle took hhn somethinglike 120 hours of work.All 7 long-distance pronouns in the ILEX dialogueswe have studied refer to discourse entities intro-duced in background text in this way.Unlike Sidner's theory of focus (Sidner, 1979),the theory of the attentional state in (Grosz andSidner, 1986) (henceforth: G&S) does not includeexplicit provision for long-distance pronominalisa-tions, although some of the necessary tools are po-tentially already there, as we will see.
The compo-nent of the theory that deals with pronominal ref-erence, centering theory (Grosz et al, 1995), onlyaccounts for cases in which the antecedent of a pro-noun is introduced by the previous entence; casessuch as (1) have to be handled by different mech-anisms.
In this paper we look the phenomenon oflong-distance pronominalisation in some detail, ex-amining data from different domains, and consider550its implications for G&S's theory.2 Theor ies  o f  focusSpace unfortunately prevents a full discussion ofGrosz's (1977), Sidner's (1979), and G&S's (1986)theories of focus and the attentional state in thisabstract.
The crucial aspects of these theories, forthe purpose of the discussion below, are as follows.First of all, G&S propose adistinction between twocomponents of the attentional state: the GLOBALFOCUS, structured as a stack of focus spaces and ac-cessed to interpret definite descriptions; and the LO-CAL FOCUS, consisting of the information preferen-tially used to interpret pronouns?
In addition, theyadopt CENTERING THEORY (Grosz et al, 1995) asa theory of the local focus.Secondly, although G&S's theory integratesideas from both Grosz's and Sidner's original the-ories, and although both of these theories assumeda stack structure, the global focus in G&S's the-ory is structured as a stack of focus spaces, as inGrosz's original proposal, rather than as a stack ofdiscourse foci, as in Sidner's original theory.
Theclaim that different parts of the attentional state areaccessed when resolving pronouns and definite de-scriptions is supported, broadly speaking, by psy-cholinguistic research (see, e.g., (Garrod, 1993)).The main claims of centering theory are also con-sistent with psycholinguistic results (Hudson, 1988;Gordon et al, 1993).
To our knowledge, however,the choice of a stack of focus spaces over a stackof discourse foci has never been motivated; yet thisdecision plays a crucial role in our problem, as wewill see.A point worth keeping in mind throughout thefollowing discussion is that, although the concept?
O"  of c8 (centerm~ theory s name for the current mostsalient entity) was originally introduced as 'roughlycorresponding to Sidner's concept of discourse fo-cus', in fact it is not clear that the two concepts arecapturing the same intuitions (Poesio and Steven-son, 1998).
Although it is often the case that the CBand the discourse focus coincide, this is not true ingeneral.I For the purposes of this paper, however,we will assume that the two notions do coincide,and will use the neutral term MOST SALIENT EN-TITY (MSE) to refer to the discourse focus / CB of aparticular segment of text.~This intuitive impression was confirmed by a recent study(Giouli?
1996), whose author tracked both the 'intuitive CB' andthe 'intuitive discourse focus' of 8 Map Task conversations.3 The DataThe Intelligent Labelling Explorer (ILEX) project isbuilding a system that generates descriptions of ob-jects displayed in a museum gallery.
2 In order togenerate the most natural descriptions of the ob-jects, dialogues with a museum curator were col-lected, describing objects in the National Museumof Scotland's 20th Century Jeweilery Gallery.
Wewill refer to this corpus as the ILEX corpus.
In thedialogues, the curator (LG) moves from case to caseas directed by an observer (JO) and describes thejewels in each case, as in example (1).The work described here is part of two relatedprojects: SOLE, the goal of which is to extendthe ILEX system with the capability of generatingprosodically adequate speech, and GNOME, whichis concerned with the generation of nominal expres-sions.
A second corpus of museum object descrip-tions was collected for use with SOLE; we will referto this corpus as the SOLE COrpUS.4 Analysis4.1 First HypothesisBecause G&S's theory of the attentional state al-ready hypothesises global focus structures in addi-tion to the local attentional structures assumed incentering theory, the simplest explanation for ourcases of long-distance pronominalisation is to hy-pothesise that readers exploit the global focus to re-solve pronouns in such cases.Assuming that the global focus is involved inthese cases, instead of complicating the local fo-cus/centering theory, is consistent with the littleavailable psychological evidence --e.g., with the re-suits of Clark and Sengui (1979), who observed aslowdown in reading times for the sentence con-taining the pronoun when the antecedent is not inthe same or the previous sentence, implying thatlong-distance pronominal anaphora re handled if-ferently.Furthermore, suggesting that these pronouns areresolved by accessing the global focus would notreally amount to a revision of the basic assump-tions of G&S's theory.
Although no explicit pro-posal conceming the respective roles of local fo-cus and global focus in pronoun resolution has everbeen made in the literature on the G&S framework,cases of pronouns involving access to the global at-tentionai structure rather than to the local focus have~'http: //www.cogsci .ed.ac.ukfalik/ilex/systemintro, html551already been discussed in this literature.
So-calledRETURN-POPS, which are pronouns that signal a re-turn to a superordinate discourse segment, were dis-cussed by Grosz (1977) and then in detail in (Fox,1987).
In (2), for example, sentence 5 resumes thesegment interrupted by 2-4; the antecedent for thepronoun her is supposed to be found on the stack,although the details of this process have never re-ally been discussed.
3(2) 1.
C: Ok Harry.
I 'm have a problem thatuh my-wi th  today's economy my daughter isworking,2.
H: I missed your name.3.
C: Hank.4.
H: Go ahead Hank.5.
C: as well as he___zr husbandA second case of pronouns that clearly seem to in-volve access to some global structure are so-called'generic' pronouns, such as the, in (3):(3) John went back to the hotel.
He looked forMary in their room, but couldn't find her.
Theytold him that she had left about an hour earlier.
(We are not aware of any account of these uses ofpronouns within the G&S framework.
)As we will see in a moment, the long-distancepronouns observed in the ILEX dialogues are neithergeneric pronouns nor return-pops; nevertheless, weare going to show that these cases, as well, are re-solved by accessing the global focus.4.2 Long-distance pronouns need not bereturn-popsTile use of him in the last sentence of (1) could onlybe termed a RETURN-POP if it were to involve a re-turn to the previous discourse segment which 'popsover' sentence 4 (And if you look at, for instance, thebangle at the bottom ... ) and 'closes off' the ma-terial introduced in that sentence.
But this is clearlynot the case, as shown by the fact that the final sen-tence contains a reference to both the jeweller andthe bangle.
Indeed, the bangle could also be referredto with a pronoun: And it took him something like120 hours of work.
The fact that pronouns and def-inite NPs in the last sentence can refer back to ma-terial in the 4th sentence indicates that this materialmust still be on the stack.3This example is from (Pollack et al, 1982).4.3 Discourse Structure in the Example TextBefore discussing how the global focus is used forresolving pronouns uch as the long-distance pro-noun in the last sentence of (1), we need to discussthe structure of these examples: i.e., is the part of(l) which has the jeweller as MSE (2nd sentence)still on the stack when the part that describes detailsof the jewel and contains the long-distance pronoun(3rd and 4th sentence) is processed?Answering this question is made more difficult bythe fact that G&S's theory of the intentional struc-ture is very abstract, and therefore does not helpmuch in specific cases, especially when the genreis not task-oriented conversations.
More specificindications concerning the structure of the relevantexample, and more in general of the conversationsin the ILEX corpus, are given by Rhetorical Struc-ture Theory (RST) (Mann and Thompson, 1988), 4although even with RST it is still possible to anal-yse any given text in many different ways.
Nev-ertheless, we believe that the structure depicted inFigure 1 is a plausible analysis for (1); an alterna-tive analysis would be to take the 4th and 5th sen-tence as elaborations of and he lavished on thosematerials an incredibly painstaking technique .
.
.
.but in this case, as well (and in all other rhetoricalstructures we could consider) sentences 4 and 5 aresatellites of sentence 3.
(We have employed the setof rhetorical relations currently used to analyse theILEX data.
)The relation between G&S's and RST's notionof structure has been analysed by, among others,(Moore and Paris, i 993; Moser and Moore, 1996).According to Moser and Moore, the relation can becharacterised asfollows: an RST nucleus expressesan intention I~; a satellite xpresses an intention 18;and I,~ dominates I .
Thus, in (1), the nucleus of theexemplification relation, sentence 3, would domi-nate the satellite, consisting of sentences 4 and 5.We will make the same assumption here.
Hencewe can assume that the third sentence in (1) willstill be on the stack when processing the 4th and 5thsentences.
This would also hold for the alternativerhetorical structures we have considered.
54Fox, as well, used RST to analyse the structure of texts inher study of the effect of discourse structure on anaphora (Fox,1987).5Some readers might wonder whether it wouldn't be sim-pler to assume that all of the utterances in (1) are part of thesame segment.
This assumption would indeed make the an-tecedent accessible; however, it would not explain the data.
notat least if we assume that it is centering theory that determines552'jeweller particularlyinterested in usingworthless material'The jeweller who made thesebangles ....EXEMPLIFICATIONAnd if you look at, for instance ....And that particular bangle took HIM ....CONSEQUENCEso that the amount of time heput into the labour ....Figure 1: A possible analysis of (1).4.4 What Goes on the Stack?We can finally turn to the task of explaining howthe global focus is used to resolve long-distancepronominalisations.
The simplest explanation con-sistent with the G&S's framework would be to as-sume that resolving such pronouns involves earch-ing for the first discourse ntity in the focus spacestack that satisfies gender and number constraints.Under the assumptions about the discourse struc-ture of examples like (1) just discussed, this expla-nation would indeed account for that example; thereis evidence, however, that additional constraints areinvolved.
The first bit of evidence is that the pres-ence on the focus space stack of an appropriate an-tecedent does not always make the use of a longdistance pronoun felicitous.
Consider tile follow-ing fi'agment of an article that appeared in TheGuardian, January 28, 1995, p.3.
(4) Joan Partington, aged 44, from Bolton, Lan-cashire, has six children.
The eldest are two17-year-old twin boys, one awaiting a heart by-pass operation and the other with severe be-havioral problems.
A 13-year-old son has hy-drocephalus.
She was living with her hus-band when Wigan magistrates ordered her tobe jailed unless he paid ?5 per week, althoughhe earned only ?70 per week as a part-timepostman.anaphoric reference, since centering does not explain how apronoun can refer to an antecedent two sentences back.
Assum-ing that there is more than one segment in such texts, instead,will turn out to be not just a more plausible assumption aboutsegmentation; it will also give us a simple way to explain thedata,The use of he in the last sentence is awkward, eventhough there is a discourse ntity on the focus spacestack- the husband- that would satisfy the con-straints imposed by the pronoun.
This seems to in-dicate that the elements of a focus space are not allequally accessible.The second relevant bit of evidence concerns theuse of proper names in the ILEX corpus .
It may hap-pen in the ILEX dialogues that a designer like JessieKing is first mentioned by name in a segment whereshe is not the main topic of discussion, as in Otherjewels in the Bohemian style include a brooch byJessie King.
If this is the case, then when later we'retalking about another jewel that King designed, shewill have to be introduced again with a full propername, Jessie King, rather than simply King.
If, how-ever, she becomes the 'main topic' of discussion,then later, whenever we talk about her again, we canuse reduced forms of her proper name, such as King.Again, this difference is not easy to explain in termsof focus spaces if we assume that all objects in afocus space have the same status.A third class of expressions providing evidencerelevant to this discussion are bridging descriptions,i.e., definite descriptions like the door that refer toan object associated with a previously mentioneddiscourse ntity such as the house, rather than tothe entity itself (Clark, 1977).
Poesio et al (1997;1998) report experiments in which different ypes oflexical knowledge sources are used to resolve bridg-ing descriptions and other cases of definite descrip-tions that require more than simple string match fortheir resolution.
Their results indicate that to re-solve bridging descriptions it is not sufficient sim-ply to find which of the entities in the current focus553space is semantically closest o the bridging descrip-tion: in about half of the cases of bridging descrip-tions that could be resolved on the basis of the lexi-cal knowledge used in these experiments, the focusspaces contained an entity whose description wasmore closely related to that of the bridging descrip-tion than the one of the actual antecedent(s).This evidence about infelicitous pronouns, propernames, and bridging descriptions suggests that theentities in a focus space are not all equally salient.In fact, one could even wonder if we need focusspaces at all; i.e., if Sidner's original proposal - ac-cording to which it's just the MSE that goes on thestack, not the whole focus space - is correct.
A re-vision of G&S's theory along these lines- i.e., inwhich the focus space stack is replaced by an MSEstack- would still explain (1), since the jeweller isclearly the MSE of sentence 3; indeed, all 7 casesof long-distance pronouns found in the ILEX corpushave a previous MSE as their antecedent.
But, in ad-dition, this revision would explain the awkwardnessof (4): the husband was never an MSE, so it wouldnot be on the stack.A global focus of this type would also give us away to formulate a restriction on using shortenedforms of proper names that would account for thefacts observed in the ILEX corpus:  reduced NPsare allowed for entities that have been introducedas MSEs, full NPs are needed otherwise.
And fi-nally, keeping track of previous MSEs seems essen-tial for bridging descriptions as well: in order tofind the reasons for the low performance of algo-rithms for resolving bridging descriptions entirelybased on lexical knowledge, (Poesio et al, 1998)examined the bridging descriptions their corpus tofind out their 'preferred' antecedent.
6 They foundthat the preferred antecedent of a bridging descrip-tion is a previous MSE in 54 out of 203 cases.
Inthe SOLE COrpUS, 8 OUt of 11 bridging descriptionsrelate to the MSE.Does this mean, then, that we can get rid of fo-cus spaces, and assume that it's MSEs that go on thestack?
Before looking at the data, we have to beclear as to what would count as evidence one wayor the other.
Even an approach in which only previ-ous MSES are on the stack would still allow access toentities which are part of what Grosz called the IM-PLICIT FOCUS of these MSEs, i.e., the entities that6As discussed in (Poesio and Vieira, 1998), in general thereis more than one potential 'antecedent' for a bridging descrip-tion in a text.are 'strongly associated' with the MSES.
This notionof 'strong association' is difficult to define- in fact,it is likely to be a matter of degree- but neverthelessit is plausible to assume that the objects 'stronglyassociated' with a discourse ntity A do not includeevery discourse ntity B which is part of a situationdescribed in the text in which A is also involved; andthis can be tested with linguistic examples, up to apoint.
For example, whereas definite descriptionslike the radiator cap can easily be resolved in a nullcontext o a car, descriptions like the dog can't, asshown by the infelicity of (5d) as a continuation of(5b), even though dogs in cars are not uncommon;some contextual antecedent is needed.
(5) a. Mary saw a dark car go by quickly.b.
It was a bright, warm day.c.
The radiator cap was shining in the sun.d.
The dog was enjoying the warmth.The question we have to answer, then, is whetherthe only information that is available as part of theattentional state is what is 'strongly associated' withone of the previous MSES, or, instead, all of the in-formation mentioned in the text.
7Now, sentences like (5a) license both bridging de-scriptions to the car, as in (5c), and to Mary, as inHer hat had become very hot.
Whatever we takethe MSE of (5a) tO be, it seems implausible to ar-gue that both the bridging description s the radiatorcap and Her hat are resolved by looking at the ob-jects 'strongly associated' with that discourse ntity.It is much simpler to assume that both Mary andthe car are still accessible as part of the focus spaceconstructed to represent the situation described bythe text.
This also holds for what we have called'generic' pronouns, as shown by (3), in which theyrefers to individuals associated with the hotel men-tioned in the first sentence, not to the MSE, John.And indeed, Sidner assumed two stacks- one ofdiscourse foci, the other of actor foci.
But eventhis extension would not be enough, because the an-tecedent of a bridging description is not always anentity explicitly introduced in the text, but can alsobe a more abstract DISCOURSE TOPIC, by which we7Notice however that the claim that only MSES go on thestack does not entail that everything else in the text is simplyforgotten- the claim is simply that that intbrmation is not avail-able for resolving references anymore; presumably it wouldbe stored somewhere in 'long term memory'.
Conversely,the claim that everything stays on the stack would have to besupplemented by some story concerning how information getsforgotten-e.g., by some caching mechanism such as the oneproposed by Walker (1996).554mean an issue / proposition that can be said to char-acterise the content of the focus space as a whole.
Ina corpus analysis done in connection with (Poesio etal., 1997; Poesio et al, 1998), we found that 7 outof 70 inferential descriptions were of this type; inthe SOLE corpus, in which 3 out of 11 bridging de-scriptions behave this way.
An example of this useis the description the problem below, that refers tothe problem introduced by the first sentence in thetext:(6) Solo woodwind players have to be creative ifthey want to work a lot, because their reper-toire and audience appeal are limited .
.
.
.
Theoboist Heinz Holliger has taken a hard lineabout he problem ...Reference to abstract objects in general seem to re-quire maintaining information about he events andsituations described by a text on the stack- see, e.g.,(Webber, 1991).
So, it looks like what we need issomething of a compromise between the notion ofglobal focus implicit in Sidner's original proposaland that proposed by G&S.4.5 The proposalThe following hypothesis about he global focus andits use in pronoun resolution seems to provide thebest account of the evidence we have examined:1.
The global focus consists of a stack of fo-cus spaces, as in G&S's proposal.
Each ofthese focus spaces can be summarised as be-ing 'about' some object / proposition / issue-indeed, more than one- for which we will usethe term DISCOURSE TOPICS; but, in addition,2.
Each focus space may be optionally associatedwith a MOST SALIENT ENTITY (MSE) explic-itly introduced in the text.3.
The antecedent for a non-generic pronoun ispreferentially tobe found in the local focus; ifnone is available, one of the MSEs associatedwith a focus space on the stack can also serveas antecedent.
84.
Generic pronouns refer back to the situationdescribed by the current focus space;5.
Bridging descriptions can be related either toan entity in the current focus space, or to anMSE, or to a discourse topic;rThis would explain the difference in reading times ob-served by (Clark and Sengul, 1979).6.
Definite descriptions can refer back to any en-tity in the global focus, including discoursetopics.The reason for using the term 'optional' in 2 is thatwhereas focus spaces can always be described as be-ing about something, they are not always associatedwith a 'most salient entity': e.g., the first sentencein (6) introduces several topics (woodwind players,their need to be creative, etc.)
but does not introducean MSE.5 Related WorkIn a recent paper, Hahn and Strube (1997) proposeto extend centering theory with what is, essentially,Sidner's tack of discourse foci, although their al-gorithm for identifying the ce is not identical toSidner's.
Their analysis of German texts shows arather good performance for their algorithm, but, asonly MSEs are predicted to be accessible, none ofthe anaphors depending on focus space informationcould be resolved.
Their algorithm also appears totreat definite descriptions and pronouns uniformlyas 'anaphors', which seems problematic n the lightof psychological evidence showing that they behavedifferently, and examples like the following:(7) a. John/saw Mary.
He/greeted her.b.
John/saw Mary.
?
?The mani greeted her.
(Guindon, 1985) proposed an alternative modelof the attentional state involving a cache instead ofa stack, and Walker (1996) argues that the cachemodel can account for all of the data that origi-nally motivated the stack model and, in addition,explains the use of informationally redundant ut-terances.
The cache model isn't yet specified inenough detail for all of its implications for the datadiscussed here to be clear, but it appears that someof the issues discussed in this paper would have tobe addressed in a cache model as well, and thatsome of our conclusions would apply in a modelof that type as well.
In particular, these propos-als are not very specific about whether the cacheshould count as a replacement ofjust the global fo-cus component of G&S's theory or of both localand global focus, and about what should go in thecache-Guindon seems to assume that it's discourseentities, whereas Walker also seems to allow forpropositions and relational information.
If the cachewas intended as an alternative model of the globalfocus component, the data discussed here could be555taken as an argument hat what goes in the cacheshould be focus spaces with distinguished MSEs.6 Conc lus ionsOur main intent in looking at long-distance pronom-inalisation was to make some of the aspects of theG&S model of  attentional state more precise, andto clarify its connection with earlier work by Sid-ner.
The evidence we have presented suggests amain conclusion and a corollary.
The main conclu-sion is that the uses of long-distance pronouns in ourcorpus can be explained as cases of reference to theMSE of a segment whose associated focus space isstill on the stack.
The corollary is that these ex-amples can be accounted for within a G&S-stylemodel of discourse structure, provided that the the-ory is augmented by singling out some entities infocus spaces, and having these entities do some ofthe work done by Sidner's stack of discourse foci.A concern with studies of this type is that notionssuch as 'most salient entity' are hard to define, andit's not obvious that two different researchers wouldnecessarily agree on what is the MSE of a given sen-tence.
Work on verifying whether the notion we areassuming can indeed be reliably identified is underway as part of the GNOME project.Re ferencesH.
H. Clark and C. J. Sengul.
1979.
In search of refer-ents for nouns and pronouns.
Memory and Cognition,7(I ):35-4 1.H.
H. Clark.
1977.
Bridging.
In P. N. Johnson-Laird andP.C.
Wason, editors, Thinking: Readings in CognitiveScience.
Cambridge University Press.B.
A.
Fox.
1987.
Discourse Structure and Anaphora.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.S.
Garrod.
1993.
Resolving pronouns and otheranaphoric devices: The case for diversity in dis-course processing.
In C. Clifton, L. Frazier, andK.
Rayner, editors, Perspectives in Sentence Process-ing.
Lawrence Erlbaum.P.
Giouli.
1996.
Topic chaining and discourse structurein task-oriented dialogues.
Master's thesis, Universityof Edinburgh, Linguistics Department.P.
C. Gordon, B. J. Grosz, and L. A. Gillion.
1993.
Pro-nouns, names, and the centering of attention in dis-course.
Cognitive Science, 17:311-348.B.
J. Grosz and C. L. Sidner.
1986.
Attention, inten-tion, and the structure of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 12(3): 175-204.B.
J. Grosz, A. K. Joshi, and S. Weinstein.
1995.
Center-ing: A framework for modelling the local coherenceof discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 21(2):202-225.B.
J. Grosz.
1977.
The Representation and Use of Fo-cus in Dialogue Understanding.
Ph.D. thesis, Stan-ford University.R.
Guindon.
1985.
Anaphora resolution: Short-termmemory and focusing.
In Proc.
of the 23rd AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pp.
218-227.U.
Hahn and M. Strube.
1997.
Centering in-the-large:Computing referential discourse segments.
In Proc.of the 35th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pp.
104-111.J.
Hitzeman, C. Mellish, and J. Oberlander.
1997.
Dy-namic generation of museum web pages: The intelli-gent labelling explorer.
Archives and Museum lnfor-matics, 11:107-115.J.
R. Hobbs.
1978.
Resolving pronoun references.
Lin-gua, 44:311-338.S.B.
Hudson.
1988.
The Structure of Discourse andAnaphor Resolution: The Discourse Center attd theRoles of Nouns and Pronouns.
Ph.D. thesis, Univer-sity of Rochester.W.
C. Mann and S. A. Thompson.
1988.
Rhetoricalstructure theory: Towards a functional theory of textorganization.
Text, 8(3):243-281.J.
D. Moore and C. L. Paris.
1993.
Planning text for ad-visory dialogues: Capturing intentional nd rhetoricalinformation.
Computational Linguistics, 19(4):651-694, December.M.
Moser and J. Moore.
1996.
Toward a synthesis oftwo accounts of discourse structure.
ContputationalLinguistics, 22(3):409-419.M.
Poesio and R. Stevenson.
1998.
Computational mod-els of salience and psychological evidence.
In prepa-ration.M.
Poesio and R. Vieira.
1998.
A corpus-based investi-gation of definite description use.
ComputationalLin-guistics.
To appear.M.
Poesio, R. Vieira, and S. Teufel.
1997.
Resolvingbridging references in unrestricted text.
In R. Mitkov,editor, Proc.
of the ACL Workshop on OperationalFactors in Robust Anaphora Resolution, pp.
1-6,Madrid.M.
Poesio, S. Schulte im Walde, and C. Brew.
1998.Lexical clustering and definite description interpre-tation.
In Proc.
of the AAAI Spring Synlposiunt onLearning for Discourse, Stanford, CA, March.M.
Pollack, J. Hirschberg, and B. Webber.
1982.
Userparticipation i  the reasoning process of expert sys-tem.
In Proc.
of AAAI-82, pp.
358-361.C.
L. Sidner.
1979.
Towards a computational theo~'of definite anaphora comprehension i  English dis-course.
Ph.D. thesis, MIT.M.
A. Walker.
1996.
Limited attention and discoursestructure.
Computational Linguistics, 22(2):255-264.B.
L. Webber.
1991.
Structure and ostension in the inter-pretation of discourse deixis.
Languageand CognitiveProcesses, 6(2): 107-135.556
