The Logical Structure of BindingAnt6nio BrancoDFKI  and Univ.
of LisbonDep.
Inform~itica, Fac.
Ci~ncias, Campo Grande, 1700 Lisboa, PortugalAntonio.Branco@di.
fc.ul .p tAbstractA log.ical recasting of  B.inding Theory is performed asan enhancing step tor the purpose ot its gull and leandeclarative implementation.
A new insight onsentential anaptioric processes i  presented which maysuggestively be c%ptured by the slogan bindingconclitions are me effect of phase quantification on theuniverse of discourse referents.IntroductionDue to its central role in natural language and itsintriguing propert.ies, reference and anap'hor resolutionhas been a central topic for NLP research.
Given theintensive attention devoted to this subject, .it canhowever be said that sentential anaphor orocessmg hasbeen quite overlooked, when compared io the amountof research effort put in tackling non sententialanaphoric dependencies.
This tends to be so becausethere seems to be a more or less implicit assumptionthat no substantial difference xists between the two~cesses  1.ile this may be arguably true for.
the heuristicsinvolved in picking out a given antecedent from a listof suitable candidates, a more s.ubtle point asks.
itselfto be made when we focus on the syntactic onditionswhich sentential anaohoric relations comply with, butfrom which non senfential ones are exempt.In theoretical linguistics these grammatical conditionsare grouped under the hea.ding of BindingTheory.. Incomputational linguistics however, tlaoug.n there havebeen a few papers directly concerned with meimplementation of this theory, mainstream researchtends t 9 disregard its conceptual, grammatical orpractical modularity.
When it comes to define mealgorithm.
.for.setting up the list of suitable candidatesfrom which the antecedent should be chosen, bindingconditions, holding just at the sentential evel, aremost otten put on a par with any other kind ofconditions, morphological, semantic, pragmatic, etc.~which hold for anaptioric relations at both sententialand non sentential level.The interesting p.oint to be made in this connection isat, it the modularity ot grammatical knowledge is tobe ensured in a sound reference resolution system,more attention should be paid to previous attempts ofimplementing, Binding Theory..
It would then becomeewdent that mis theory, in its current formulation,appears, as ,a , piece of formalised grammaticalKnowJe~age wnicn nowever escapes a full and leandeclarative implementation.In fact, implementation efforts concerning BindingTheory 2bring to light what tend to be eE!ipsed by.mainstream clean theoretical formulations ot it.
Behindt.he apparent declarative aspect of its definition underthe form ot a set of binding principles(plus definitionsof associated concepts, e.g.
o-command, o-bound, localIAs entry points into bibliography vd References in Grosz etal .
(95) and Botley et al (96).-'Vd.
Chomsky(81 ), Correa(88), lngria et al(89), Fong (90), Giorgiet al (90), Pianesi (91).domain, etc.
), there is a set of  procedures which turnout to be an essential p.art ot the theory: after parsingbeing completed, (it in~lexation: assignln.dices to NPs;(ii) filtering: store the indexed tree it the indexationrespects binding principles, reject otherwise; (iii)recursion: repeat (i)with a new assignment until allpossible assignments are exhausted.T.his sort of resistance to declarative encompassing isalso ap.oarent when one considers how Binding Theor Zis hani:lled in grammatical theories developed on top otconstraint based formalisms and particularly concernedwith computational implementa'bility, lille LFG orHPSG.As to HPSG, it has passed quite unnoticed that itsBinding Theory is the only piece of the grammarfragment not encoded in its own formalism.
In theAppendix of the foundational book (Pollard and Sag~9"4)), where the fragment of grammar developed alongtts 700 pp.
is encoded in the adopted formalism,Binding Theory_ escapes such encoding.
Bredenkamp(96) and Backot'en et al.
(96) subsequent elaboration onthis.
is.sue jmplied that som.
e.
ki.
'nd pf essentiallimitation ot the tormallsm might have been reacneaand that H PSG.
Binding Theory is still waiting to beaccommpdate~ into HPS.G grammars .
.
.
.
.
.As tO the UP~ tormulaUon ot t~lndmg lneory, itrequires the integration of inside-out equations, asp6cial purpose extension to the general'declarativefbrmalism.
And even though initial scepticism abouttheir tractabili.ty was dissipated by Kaplan andMaxwell \[88), the recent survey, of l~acKoten et al (96)repo.rts that no implementeH formalism, and noimplemented grammar, is known to handle LFGBin.ding Theory.. .
.
.
.
.
.In this connection the central aim ot the research to Depres.ented here is to render possible a lean declarativeimplementation f Binding Theory in constraint basedformalisms without resorting to specific complexmechanisms.
This involves two steps.
First, as a sortof enhancing step back, a new account, of Bindinglheory, is set up.
Second, by the exhibition ot aftexample~ the new shape of the theory is shown tosupport full declarative implementation in basic HPSGformalism.
Due to sp.ace constraints, this .paper ismostly concerned with the first, while the latterreceives just a rough sketch in last section, beingdevelope~l in future papers.1 Preliminaries1.1 The Square of OppositionRecent cross linguistic research, e.g.
Xue, Pollard andSag (94) and Branco and Marrafa (97), ILas shown thatthe binding ability of long-distance renexives.is notreducible to recursive concatenation of short distancerelations, as it has been assumed in GB accounts, butthat it is ruled by a fourth binding principle:(1) Principle ZAn o-commanded anaphoric pronoun must be o-bound.181(2) Z: B:x is bound compatible x is locally free.
Icontradictory 1 implies 1 contradictoryC: contrary A:x is free x is locally boundThis new perspective on long-distance reflexives hadan important impact in the whole shape of BindingTheory.
Branco and Marrafa noted still that the fourprinciples can be arranged in a classical Aristoteli.ans~uare at oppositions, as in (2).
This su~zgests hat theBinding Theory may have an unsuspec'(td underlyingq uantificational structure.
The present paper aims atsnowing that there is such structure and at determiningits basic lines.1.2 Phase  Quant i f i cat ionBarwise and Cooper (81) seminal work gave rise to auitful research tradition where Generalised QuantillerTheory has been applied to the analysis of naturalland e " " =uagq.uant~ficanon.
These authors uggested that auniversal characterisation f NL nominal quantificationcould be formally given by means of ,formal prop, ertiesdefined in that theory.
Th.
'e property to live on waspostulated as being the most prominent one~admittedly constituting the common specific nature atall nominal quantifiers.L.ater, Loebner (87)suggested a criterion to ascertainthe quantihcat,onal nature at natural languageexpressions in general.
That is the property that, for aone place second order operator Q expressed by a givenexc~ression, there be a corresponding dual operatorTHls'duality-"?- based perspective on the essence of naturallangua,,.
,.~, e quantificauon permitted to extendquann~fication su orted 19 the determiners all, some.canon well beyond the classic cases of nominalq PP .
.
most many, etc., namely ~y covering also the realmsof tempora'litv and Doss'ibility.
Moreover, items likestill/ already, , and others (enough~too, scalingadjectives, man)/few, etc.)
though they do not lendthemselves tobe straightforwardly analysed in terms ofset .quantification, they can alsob.~ arranged in asquareof duality.
The formalization at the semantics at theseaspectua\] items by Loebner led tq the enlarging of thenotion at quantincation through the introduction at thenew concept of phase cmantification.He noted that still and alreaclv express duals m2,,d thatthey are corners,of a square of,d, uality.
Let P be she isasleep" and -P 'she is awake', durative propositionswhich are the arzuments of the semanuc operatorscorresponding to aTready and still.
Then:(3) She is already asleep iffit is not the case that she is still awake.ALREADY P iff - STILL -PFurther similar tests can be made in order to show thatthese aspectual items enter the following square ofduality:(4) innerstill negauon .not yet/q  ,e OU ~r  OUt ~" negauon/ dual | negauonno longe)  ~ '~- - -~ ~ a l ready inner neganonIn order to ~et a formalization of (4), Loebner notedthat alreac~,.should be taken as convey.in~ theinformation that there is a phase of not-P which hasst a(ted before a given reference time tO and might beIOllOWeO lay at most one phase P which reaches tall tu.This can be displayed in a time axis by means of thediagram in (5).
(5) tO tO1' "~ ' " ' " ' - "  ~ tP -P ~p Pstill P not  yet PtO tOP -P ~p Pno longer  P a l ready PSimilar diagrams for the meaning of the otheraspectual phase quantitiers at this square of duality areeasily intemretable.
Inner negation results inexchanging the positive and the negative semiphases,while outer negati9n c.oncerns the.decision whether theparameter to tails Into the hrst or the secondsemiphase.Phase quantifiers in general (already, scaling a.djectives,etc.)
.
were thus characterised as requiring twoingredients: (i) a property P, which defines a positivephase in a sequence of two opposi\[e phases; (ii) ap.arameter point.
The four types at quantifiers just~liffer in presupposing that either the positive or thenegative semiptiase,co.mes fir t_and in stating that theparameter point tm~s rata the tirst or into the secondsemiphase.
.
.
.
.Next Loebner showed that the semantics of phase~oUantifiers sketched in the diagrams above can bermalised in such a way that" a square of dualityformed b~, the generalised q.uanti.fiers XX.some'(D,X~/XX.every (D,X) turns out to t~e su.bjacent to the squareof duality of already~still.
In order to do it, he justneeded the auxiliary, notion at starting, point at therelevant semiphase.
This is rendered as the intimum atthe set of the closest predecessors o f  the parameterpo.i.nt pt which, forman unint.errt~pted linear sequencew~th property P, or ~P (.termed Libl(K,pt) lay Loelaner):(6) GSI(R,pt) =df inf{x I x<pt & R(x) &Vy(x<y<pt & R(y) --~ Vz(x<z<y ----~ R(z)))}The semantics of the four ohase quantifiers above canthen.
be rendered in the following way, making pt=tOtar the parameter point and R=P or R=-P:(7) still: XP.every'(X x.
(GSI(P,a)<x<t0),P)already: XP.some'(X x.
(GSI(-P,a)<x<t0),P)not yet: XP.no'(Xx.
(GSI(-P, a) < x < t0),P)nolonger: XP.not every'(Xx.
(GSI(P,a)<x<t0),P)2 The Log ic  of  B ind ingTaking Loebner's view on quantification, our goal inthis section is to make apparent the quantificationalstructureof binding by showing that on a par with thesquare o!
opposition, of (2) binding, principles form a,squa4".e of d.dality, we are going tDus to argue .thatolnain.g prlnciptes are out the reflex ot the ph.asequantincational nature oI corresponding nominalexpressions: reflexives, prg.no.uns, long-distancereflexives and R-expressions will be shown to expressphase quantiners acting on the grammaticaloonqueness axis.1822.1 Phase quantification ingredientsIn order to show that the above referred nominals.express ,phase quantifi.ers t.he relevant .componentsmvoJvea m pnase.quantm.catlon snored t~e.
mentmea.lne  relevant sca le  here Is not the continuous nnear~.rder of mo.ments o f  time, as for still~already, but alscrete partla~ order made oI mscourse rererents (ct.DRT) arramzed according to the relative obliqueness ofgrammatical functions.
Note that in multiclausalconstructions there is the corresponding subordinationof different clausal obliqueness hlerarchles (for the salveor comparalgility with diagrams (3) involving timearrow, Hasse dm~ams for obliqueness are displayedwith a turn of 90~right):(8) Kim said Lee saw Max.Ok 1 mNote also that the relation "less oblique than" may notbe linear:(9)Kim said Lee, who saw Max, hit Norma.O--------O Ok 1 nO OI mThe sequence of two  oEpos i te  semiphases  isdefined by a,prooerty 1-'.
Contrarily to what happenswith .alread3, wfie.r.e operator (quantifier).
and o~rand(auraUve proposmon) are renderecl p.y mtterentexpressions, m binding p.hase, quantification .meoperanu r is also contnbuteO by.
the nomlna~expressing the operator, i.e.
expressing the bindingphase quantiner.For a given nominal N P is determined by the relativeposition of N in the scale .
For a discourse referent rcorresponding to N, semiphase P is a linear stretchcontainingonly elements that.
are less than or equal tor in the obliqueness order, that is discourse reterentscorrespondi.ng to.
, nom in.als o-commanding N..Moreover, i t  semlpnase .r Is.
presupposecl to precedesemiphase -P, P is such that the last successor m it islocal wrt to r; and if semiphase -P  is presupposed, toprecedes semlphase P, P is such .tha.t the firstpredecessor in It is local wrt to r. In both cases tideclosest ~ nei~hbour or semiphase -P  has to be localwrt r, where the notion of locality has the usual sensegiven in the definition of binding principles:(10) P(x) iffdef x < r & Vy\[( -P(y)&(x-<y or y-<x))----) x is local wrt r\]As to the parameter  po in t ,  in binding..p.hasequantification, it is the discourse reterent a winch isthe antecedent of r.2 .2 Binding phase quant i f iersWe can now formalise phase quantification subjacentto nominals.
Let us start with an anaphor icexpression N like himself(11)Kim said Lee thinks Max/hit himself/.
*Kim said Lee/thinks Max hit himself/.QA: XP.some'(Xx.
(GSI(-P,a)<x<a),P).a Po !k ....0XCXN can thus be inte.rpreted as presupposing that asemiDhase -P  precedes a semipfiase P and requiringthat the p.arameter point occurs, in the.
!atter~ ttiat is,the antecedent a ~s to be round in .s.em~pn~e r amongthe discourse referents corresponding to Uae local o-commanders of r, the disc referent correspgnd.ing tqN 3.This is captured by_ the definition oI tide pna:s.e.quantifier QA.
Sanstaction.
of QA(P) obtains iHbetween the  bottom ot  tide uninterrupted linearsequence -t-' most close to me parameterp.omt/antecedent a and a inclusive there is at'least one~liscourse referent in P. Given -P.P, this amounts torequiring that a be in P, and that a be a local o-commander of r. 3Next, it is then easy to see how the phasequantificational force or a p ronomina l  expression Nshould be formalised:(12) *Kim said Lee thinks Max/hit  him/.Kim said Lee/thinks Max hit him/.QB:XP.no'(Xx.
(GSI(~P, a) < x < a),P)_p ~a ~:~ pHere the parameter point a occurs in semiphase -P,which amounts to the antecedent being picked 9utsidet,n.e set of loc~ o-commanders.
QB(P).
Is satisnea itt nodiscourse reterent between the bottom ot meuninterrupted, linear sequence -P  re.ore c.lose to theoarameter i~olnt/antecedent a and a Inclusive Is In r'.Given.-P.P, this.amount.s to requiring that a be ,insemiplmse ~1 ~, and mat a be not a local o-commanoerof r.Like in diagram of (11), ~P is taken here as thecomplement set oIP.
All discourse reterents which arenot "local o-commanders of r are in it, either o-commanding r or not.
Notice that set -P  includes alsodiscourse referents Xl.vX n introduced by previoussentences or the extra-linguistic ontext, which inconstructions similar to (l'2)b. accounts for possibleaeictic readings of the pronoun.
Below, when studying.R.-expressions~we,wlll see why.
the possible nonlinearity o t  me ot~li.qu.eness orizler will led.
us.
toconsider that -1: is sljglatly more complex than justme complement se_t ot r'._Coming now to long-d is tance re f lex ives ,  ruledby.
the fourth binding principle in (1), we get thefollowing formalisation:(13)\[O amigo de Kim\]i disse que ele pr6prioi acha queLee wu Max.
(Portuguese)\[Kim's fr iend\]/saidLDRi thinks Lee saw Max.
*\[O amigo de Kimi\] disse que ele pr6prioi acha queLee viu Max.\[Kim'si friend\] said LDRi thinks Lee saw Max.Qz:XP.every'(X x.
(GSI(P, a)<x_<a),P)~a P _pOI xn k3For the sake of simplicity, agreement requirements between Nand its antecedent are overlooked here.183Here, like for short-distance reflexives in (11), a isrequired to occur in P though the presupposition owis .t.13at semiphase P is fpIlowe.d by~ ~m.ipnase ?,r'.laKmg.mto account the de/m.mon oI t- m t~u), meantecedent of N is thus required to Dean o-comma3a.gerQocal or n.ot) of N. Thesemant ics  PL P.13ase quantiner~Z ~s such tpat, tor QZ(r') to .De saUsned, between mebottom oI the uninterrupted linear sequence V moreclose to the parameter point/antecei\[lent a and ainclusive every ..discourse referent is in P. Thisamounts to requmng that a be in semiphase P, andthat a be an o-commander or r.Finally R -express ions  call to be formalised as thefourth phase quantifier of (7):(14) \[Kim'si friend\] said Kimi thinks Lee saw Max.
*\[Kim's friend\]/said Kimi thinks Lee saw Max.Qc :hP .not  every'(Xx.
(GSI(P,a)<x< a),P)P -Pom0I xn ka)The parameter point a is required to occur in -P, whichmeans that a cannot be an o-commander (local or not)of r. This renders the same condition as expressed byPrinciple C, that R-expressions be free, though it alsoencodes an uncommon assumption agout thereferential autonomy of R-expressions.
Here, like forother more obvious dependent reference?
nominals, theinterpretation .of l,~-expressions is.
taken as beingdependent on the interpretation ot other expressions oron the salience of discourse referents made available bythe communicative context.
Taking an extremeexample in order to support the plausibility of.
thisview and awkwardly, ab'6reviate a deep philosophicaldiscussion, one should notice that even a proper nameis not a unique label of a given individual~ onceknowing who is the person called John (out ot thosewe know that are named John) depends on the context.Note that like in previous diagrams, -P  is taken in(14) just as the complement set of P. However, QCasks finally for a serious ponderation o) this and amore accurate definition of -P  for phase quantincationin non linear orders, where it is possible that not allelements are comparable..  .
.
.
.
.Por t~c(P ) to be satisfied, between the t~ottom o\[ i-and the parameter point/ antecedent a inclusive notevery discourse referent is in P. Since we have here thep.resupposition P.-P,  andgiven P is an uninterru.ptedlinear sequence, this would-amount to requiring that abe in -P.It is wortb noting then that i.f we keep -P  simply asthe complemen.t set of r', the interpretation o !
~-expressions is however not adequately predicted by~c(P).
(15) John said Kimj thinks Lee saw Max.P -Pa-...~l o nP -P~:  .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
mLet D be Ix: GSI(P,a)<x<.
a}~t.he domain of .Qc.Taking (15)b., it is easy to check that in constructiopslike (.IS)a, D is always empty.
In fact, it is not thecase that G S.I(P,a)<a s a=xl- is not comparab.le to anyelement ot 1-', andafortiori it is not comparable to thebottom.of  P. Consequently, every'(D,P) is triviallytrue whatever discourse referent xn we take asantecedent for r, and not every'(D,P) is trivially false.The interpretation of.
(1.5)a, sketched in (15)b. wouldthus be incorrectly ruled out.What these considerations eem then to suggest isthat, when ph.ase quantification opera.tes o.n non linearorders, negatmn ot the ooerand r' ~s slightly morecomplex ttian sim_ple Boplean negation rendering thecomplement se.t.W..e are thus.taugm tla.at negation qf.Pinvolves also the lilting ot the comolement set o~ L',P_L, with _1_ equal to r, the top of P, when P .
-P  .
Itis easy to check with diagra..m (15)c. that thisspecification o f -P  makes it possible to satisfy Qc(P)in exactly the correct constructions.2.3 The Binding Square of DualityFol!owing Loebner's claim that logical duality is thecardinal property to recognise the quant~hcationalcharacter 9f nat.ural anguage expressions, we are thusled to  the vmw that the interpretaUon or ponquantincational dennite nominals ~s...ruled by theirphase quantincational Iorce over the obliqueness order.Since ~he defining formulas of binding quantinersresult from .
(7) just by assigning P the ~lefinition .in(10) and taking the .p.arameter point, pt to be toeantecedent a, ~t is w~th no su.rpnse that we get thefollowing square of duality for binding quantitmrs:(16) ~ inner ,-, x /Z  negatmn ~/~ ~ ~  ~outer outer - / dual / ne~atmn negauon/ _ _ /q - -  C inner Q A negation3 ConsequencesThis new conception of binding seems to haveimportant consequences not only in terms of theunderstandimz of dependent reference mechanismscaptured by Binding Theory but also in terms of ourconception o.f generalised quantification in natura\]language, of the twofold semantic apacity, ot nominalexpressmns, referential and quantificational, and maybeeven of the.nature of grammar devices.
Here we cannotdo but to limit ourselves to hint how a lew centrali.ss.ues usual\]y assgciated to binding are handled, u.nderthis new viewpoint, bet~e we proceed to bnetly~consider its consequences tor the implementation otBinding Theory in constraint based grammars.3.1 Fur ther  ins ights  into b ind ing.
.
.Parameter i za t ion  It is well known that thoughbinding principles are assumed to hold universally mall languages, final "grammatical geometry" between184nominals and their antecedents may be different fromlanRuage to language.
.
.
.
.
.Da\[ry mple (9.3) pointed out that this is.oue .to l.anguagespecific cqndit!ons i.mpinging ~),on the eligibimy ort.ne anteceoe.nt (wnemer it is a ~ubiect.
or not) and ~l~)the range 9t the local domain (whether it ~s nnite,tensed, .etc.).
As to (i), Branco and Marrafa (97) showedthat it ~s a conseqgence of a lexical property of theprecticates, whose ot~liqueness.hierarchy may be eitherlinear or non linear.
Es to (ii), t0is variation mayaccommogated in the definiuon ,ot property P in 00.
),in particular in the de.finitiqn of loca~ w.rt tq r., toproyl(Je for each partlcu!ar language.
~oth splu.hons areoertectly contluent w~th.
the uLi standpomt .thatbinding v.aria.tions across language are the result otparameterlzatlon.Lexical  gaps  4 It is also well known th.at although.t~e tour binding principles, are claimed to be universalmere are.
languages wnicn nave not all thecorresponding tour type of nominals.
For instance,English is not known fo have long-distance reflexives.Ine  answer Ior this oecomes now quite simple: likewhat happens in other squares of duality, it is possiblethat no\[  ever)/, corner of the.
square IS le~calized.9oeoner t~s/) qlscusses at.length t.ne Issue.
m ~ngusn,~or instance, it is noted mat the square or ouautyconcerning deontic possibility involvingright h.appensnave only two le_xic_alized .corners, right and duty.
,r~xe.mption, and Iogophor ic i ty  AlSO wormconsidering here is the borderline case where themaximum shrink of semiphase P occurs, i.e.
when Pis the singl.eton whose sole ele .ment is r, the .discourser.eterent whose interpretation ~s to De anchored Dynnolng an antecedent tor ~t.
_ .Oiven the definition of binding phase quantitlers~, memax imum shripk .of P into a .
singl.eton attectssignificantly only the quantifiers wlaere the parameterpolnU antecedent a is to be found in P, namely QA andQZ.
In these cases, for a to be in P an~l-mequantincation to 0e satisfied, a can only be r, r beingthus its own antecedent.
Consequently.~, although theQuantification is satisfied, a '.meaningftil a.nc.hor.mg ofthe discourse referent r is still to be accomplished sinceby the sole effect of.quantification satisfaction r is iustanchored to itself.
Admittedly, an overarchinginte~retability requirement imposes that thesignificant anchoring of nominals be consummated,which, i.nduces in present case an exceptionallogopnorlc ettect: tor me anap.nor (snort o r  Io.ng-distance), tq t)e lnterpreted,.and given t.nat satls.t.act.lonot its t)lnding constramt is ensured, It should thusfreely .
find an antecedent outside any specificrestriction.This constitutes th.usan explanation for the exemptionrestrictions in the definitions oI rrinciples.
A and Landso called logophoric effects associated .to exemptanaphor.s.
Restrictions.
which appeared until no.w to ,~.mere.stlp.ulations recewe in this approach a pnncipleajusnttcatlon.3.2 ... fo r  a lean imp lementat ionThe new conception of.
Binding Theory presented inis paper is currently being inte~ated" in an HPSGgrammar implemented in ProFI.T 1.54.. Space lim.itsrestrict us here to a very.
prier rauonme ot .matimplementation, which wall be fully presented intuture tpapers.T.he in}erestingpqint t 9 note in t.his connectip.n.is .th.atme new insight !nto oinmng phenomena elicited t~ythe discovery of.
t0eir qua ntin.cationa\] nature seems, toconstitute a breakthrough tot t.ne desideratum or givingBinding Theory a lean declarative implementation.Adopting a pnnciple based semantics in fine withFrank and Reyle (95), the central goal is not anymore4 Though it is empirically not necessary, for the sake of uniformity,when -P.P, the order-theoretic dual of this specification of -P canbe assumed.9o filter coindex.ations between NPs in post-processingut rather to identi.ty the relevant sets oldiscoursereterents against which satistation ot the binding phasefluantitlc.atlon expresse.d by .NPs is check.ed.
.. .in practical term.s that myolves first._ collectingdiscourse reterents into set values ot specif ic teatures,requiring a minor extension to "HPSG featuredeclaration.
S.econd, giyen the possible .non localnature ot the elements ot a given set, in order to avoidtermina.tion problems" some.
mechanism of delayingconstrmnt satlstactlon has to be ensured.ConclusionsfThoe research .reported here present a cogent ,argumentr the quantmcatlonal nature ot sententlal dependentreference relations among nominals.
This radically newconception of binding appears as a decisive step.~w~fls a full lean decIara.tive, encompassi_ng or.~inaing lneory i.n constrain.t based g.ram.mars.
I t  mayhave also opened .new intriguing directions 3or theresearch on natural anguage generalised quantitl.cation~on the.
apEarent twolold semantic .capacity .otnominals, reterential and quantillcational, or on thenature of grammar devices.AcknowledgementslSfsecial thanks are due to Palmira Marrafa and Hanszkoreit for their advice and discussion and toBerthold Crysmann for his detailed comments.ReferencesChomsky (81), Lectures on Government and Binding, Foils,Dordrecht.Correa (88), "A Binding Rule for Government-binding Parsing",COLING'88 Proceedings.Backofen, Becker, Calder, Capstick, Diui, Dtirre, Erbach, Estival,Manandhar, Mineur, van Noord, Oepen and Uszkoreit (96),Final Report of EAGLES Formalisms Working Group.Barwise and Cooper (81), Generalized Quantifiers and NaturalLanguage, L&P 4, 159-219.Botley, Glass, McEnery and Wilson, eds.
(96), Proceedings ofDiscourse Anaphora and Resolution Colloquium, LancasterUniversity.Branco and Marrafa (97), "Long-Distance Reflexives and theBinding Square of Opposition", 4th International Conf.
on HPSG.Bredenkamp (96), Towards a Binding Theo, T for HPSG, PhDdissertation, Univ.
of Essex.Dalrymple (93), The Syntax of Anaphoric Binding, CSLI, Stanford.Erbach (95), ProFIT 1.54 User's Guide, DFKI.Fong (90), "Free lndexation: Combinatorial Analysis and aCompositional Algorithm", Proceedings of ACL Meeting, 105-110.Frank and Reyle (95), "Principle Based Semantics for HPSG",Proceedings of EA CL'95 Meeting.Giorgi, Pianesi and Satta (90), "A Computational Approach toBinding Theory", Proceedings of COLING'90, 1-6.Grosz, Joshi and Weinstein (95), "Centering: A Framework forModelling the Local Coherence of Discourse", CompututionalLinguistics 21.lngria and Stallard (89), A Computational Mechanism forPronominal Reference, Proceedings of ACL Meetit,g, 262-271.Kaplan and Maxwell (88), "An Algorithm for FunctionalUncertainty", Proc.
t~f COLING'88.Loebner (87), "Quantification as a Major Module of NaturalLanguage Semantics", in Croenendijk, Jongh and Stokhof, eds.,Studies in DRT and the Theory of Generalized Quantitiers.
Foils,Dordrecht.Pianesi (91), "Indexing and Referential Dependencies withinBinding Theory", Proceedings of EACL Cm!\]erence, 39-44.Pollard and Sag (94), Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar,CSLI, Stanford.Xue, Pollard and Sag.
(94), "A New Perspective on Chinese Ziji".Proceedings of the West Coast Co,!ference on FormalLinguistics, vol.
13, CSLI, Stanford.185
