Combinat ion  of  an Automat ic  and an In teract iveD isambiguat ion  MethodMasaya  Yamaguch i ,  Takeyuk i  Ko j ima,Nobuo I nu i ,  Yosh iyuk i  Kotan i  and H i roh iko  N is imuraDepartment  of Computer  Science, Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology,Nisimura, Kotani  unit ,  2-24-16 Naka-cho, Koganei,  Tokyo, JapanAbst ractIn natural language processing, many methods havebeen proposed to solve the ambiguity problems.
Inthis paper, we propose a technique to combine amethod of interactive disambiguation a d automaticone for alnbiguous words.
The characteristic of ourmethod is that the accuracy of the interactive dis-ambiguation is considered.
The method solves thetwo following problems when combining those dis-ambiguation l ethods: (1) when should the inter-active disambiguation beexecuted?
(2) which am-biguous word should be disambiguated when morethan one ambiguous words exist in a sentence?
Ourmethod efines the condition of executing the inter-action with users and the order of disambiguationbased on the strategy where the accuracy of the re-sult.
is maximized, considering the accuracy of theinteractive disambiguation a d automatic one.
Us-ing this lnethod, user interaction can be controlledwhile holding the accuracy of results.1 In t roduct ionIn natural language processing, many methodshave been proposed to solve the ambiguity prob-lems(Nagao and Maruyama, 1992).
One of thosetechnique uses interactions with users, because it isdifficult to make all the knowledge for disambigua-tion beforehand.
That technique is classified intotwo types according to the condition of executinguser interaction.
One type(TypeA) is that the dis-ambiguation system executes interactions(Blanchonet al, 1995), (Maruyama nd Watanabe, 1990),(Yalnaguchi et al, 1995).
Another type(TypeB) isthat users executes interactions(D.Brawn and Niren-burg, 1990), (Muraki et al, 1994).
In thispaper, Ty-peA will be adopted because TypeB gives users moretrouble than TypeA does.
For  example, in TypeB,a user may have to find where is wrongly analyzedin input sentences.In TypeA, the two following conditions must bedetermined: (1) when should interactive disam-biguation be executed?
(2) which ambiguous wordsshould be disambiguated when more than one aln-biguous word exist in a sentence?
Considering theaccuracy of tile analyzed result, they should be de-cided by both the accuracy of the interactive dis-ambiguation and that of tile autolnatic disambigua-tion.
The traditional lnethods did not consideredthe accuracy of the interactive disambiguatiom Forinstance, the accuracy of the analyzed result maydecrease in spite of executing the user interactionif the accuracy of the interactive disaml)iguation islow.In this paper, we propose the method to com-bine the interactive disambiguation a d the auto-matic one, considering each accuracy.
The methodallows the disambiguation system to maximize theaccuracy of the analyzed result.
This paper focuseson the anabiguity caused by ambiguous words thathave more than one mealfing.
Section 2 representspreconditions for disamlfiguation.
In Section 3, wedescrihe the condition of executing the interactivedisambiguation.
Section 4 shows the procedure thatdecides the order of disamhiguation.
The perfor-mance of the lnethod is discussed by the result ofthe sinmlation under assumhlg the both accuracyof the interactive disambiguation a d the autolnaticone.2 Preconditions for DisambiguationThis section describes preconditions for disambigua-tion and methods of the disamlfiguation.In this paper, the disambiguation for ambiguouswords means that all ambiguous ones in an inputsentence a.re disambiguated.
Describing it.
formally,the disambiguation is to decide one element of thefollowing MS.MS = M1 x M2 x .
.
.
x slit,where an input sentence contains !
ambiguouswords.
Mi means the set of lneanings in the am-biguous word wi.Each disambiguation method has preconditions afollows:Interactive Disambiguation?
In the interaction, the system shows explana-tions for each meaning of an ambiguous word toa user, who selects one explanation from them.1423?
The system can calculate the probability wherea user selects the right explanation.Automat ic  D isambiguat ion?
The occurrence probabilities for each candidatecan be calculated for preference.?
The result is the candidate with the maximumoccurrence probability.To show the iuformation mentioned above, candi-dates are expressed by the tree in Figure 1.
This treeis an example in the case that an input sentence is "Isaw a star.
", which contains two ambiguous words'see' and 'star'  and each word has two meanings.root771~1 1 77112 1711nPdl, Pl Pd-~, P.~ Pdn, P,Figure 2: An example of the tree of candidates forone ambiguous word in an input sentenceThe accuracy of the interactive disambiguatiou/~ntr and that of the automatic disambiguation Pautoare defined as follows:root.see_l  see_2Pdll Pdl2s ta~_ l  stax_2 s tar_ l  star_2Pd2_l, Pll Pd22, P12 Pd21, P21 Pd22, P'_'2Figure 1: All example of the tree of candidatesThe depth of the tree expresses the order of dis-anfl)iguation.
In Figure 1, the auabiguities are re-solved in the order from 'see' to 'star'.
The occur-fence probability is calculated at each leaf node bythe automatic disambiguation method.
For exam-pie, PH expresses the probability for the candidate{see_ l , s tar_ l} .
Furthermore, the accuracy of in-teraction is also calculated at the leaf node by theinteractive disalnbiguation method.
Pd~.l is the prob-ability where the meanillg of 'star'  is ' s taL l '  andtim system shows explanations of ' s ta r_ l ' ,  ' s ta r_2 'for 'star'  to a user a.nd (s)he selects the explanationof 'star_2' .
At.
Nodes besides leaf ones, only theaccuracy of interaction is calculated.3 The  Cond i t ion  o f  Execut ing  theIn teract ive  D isambiguat ion3.1 Bas ic  IdeaAt each node besides leaf ones, the disambigua-tion system decides which disambiguation methodis used.
Basically, the interactive disambiguation isexecuted when its accuracy is higher than the ac-curacy of the automatic disambiguation.
First ofall, let us consider the case where an input sentencecontains one ambiguous word that has ~, meanings.Figure 2 shows the tree of candidates for this case.Pintr ---- ?
PdiPiiP~uto = maxp~The interactive disambiguation is executed, whenthe following condition is satisfied.Pintr > PautoConsidering tile condition more carefully, the ac-curacy of tile interactive disambigualion is iuflu-enced by the explanations that are showu t.o users.Thus tim accuracy may be improved by limiting toshow some explanations to users.
For example, thismay be caused when the accuracy of roll is very lowand a user may select mll  wrongly by the highersimilarity of the explanation for 11111 to other expla-nations.
The autonmtic disambiguation correspondsto showing only one explanation to users in the in-teractive disanabiguation.
Therefore the conditionof executing the interactive disambiguatiou can bedefined as the exceptional case of the limitation.3.2 The  Accuracy  at  a NodeIn the case that the number of alnbiguous words isone as Figure 2, the accuracy of the deeper nodes be-low the root node needs not to be decided becausethey are leaf nodes.
When more than two ambiguouswords exist in an input sentence, a node may oftenhave one that is not a leaf one.
To calculate the ac-curacy of such a node, it is necessary to determinewhat kind of disambiguation will be executed at thedeeper nodes.
For instance, the disambiguation sys-tem has to fix each accuracy of node 'see_ l '  and'see_2' in Figure 1 to calculate the accuracy of theroot node.
Therefore, the definition of the accuracyat any node i is the recursive one.
The accuracy ofthe interactive disambiguation Pintr(i) and that ofthe automatic disambiguation P~,to(i) at node i isdefined as follows:1424Ptntr(i) = ~ pd(,nlM ) x P,(m) (1)rnEM .Pluto(i) = max(Pr(m)) (2) m E Mwhere M is the set of the node directly under nodei, pd(m\[M) is the accuracy of the interactive disam-biguation at node m, that is, the probability that auser selects m provided that the system shows ex-planations for all the elements of M to him(her).Pr(m) is the accuracy at node m and the definitionis as follows:P~(,,) =(if the interactive disambiguation isexecuted a,t, node m)Pluto(,7/.
)(if the automatic disambiguation is ex-ecuted at node m)Poccur(m) (if m is a leaf node)where/)occur(m) is tile occurrence probability ofthe candidate that includes nodes between the rootnode alld I lode 7/l.When tile following condition is satisfied, the ill-teractive disanlbiguation is executed at node i.Pintr(i) > Pauto(i) (3)3.3 The Limitation of Explanat ionsIll user interaction, tile presentation of many expla-nations gives users trouble t.o select, one explanation.So it.
is desirable that tile disambiguation systemshows fewer exl)lanation to users, if possible.
In thissection, we describe the condition where the numberof explanations i limited without losing the accu-racy of the analyzed result.By formula (1), the accuracy of the interactivedisanlbiguation Piaster in the case of limiting the setof explanations AI ~ is defined as follows:max Z pd(m\ [M -- M ' )P , (m)  M ~ mEM-M ~Pitntr(i) - if \]M - M'\[ > 1Pr(t) if IM - M ' I  = 1If fornmla (4) is satisfied, the set.
of tile explana-tion M' is not shown to users in the interaction atnode i./~ntr(i) ~ Pi~ntr(i) (4)Furtherlnore, if I l l , l -  M '  I = 1, then tile automaticdisambiguation is executed at.
node i. Therefore,formula (4) implies fornmla (3).4 Determination of the Order ofDisambiguation4.1 Procedureup to here, we have discussed ~l:amt r and Pluto undera certain order of disambiguation.
Ill this section,we describe a procedure to decide the order of dis-ambiguation where the accuracy is maximum.The accuracy of the analyzed result may be differ-ent in each order of disambiguation, This is the rea-son that the disambiguation f one ambiguous wordleads to constrain the meaning of other ambiguousones.
Therefore, the contents of the interaction maydiffer from each order of disambiguation.
The or-der with the maximum accuracy is obtained in thefollowing procedure:1.
Calculating each occurrence probal)ility of can-didate for tile analyzed result by the automaticdisambiguation method.2.
Obtaining the accuracy in each order of (lisam-biguation based on the method described in theprevious ections.3.
Disanlbiguating by the order with the maximumaccuracy.4.2 ExampleIll this section, we illustrate the determination f ex-ecuting the interactive disambiguatioll and the orderof disanlbiguation.
The values at leaf nodes are theoccurrence probabilities.
Tile accuracy of the inter-active disalnbiguation is 0.9 at the any nodes.
Sincethe number of ambiguous words is two, the num-ber of the order of disambiguation is 2!
as shown inFigure 3, 4.rootsee_l see_2star_l star_2 star_l star_20.10 0.10 0.05 0.75Figure 3: An example of tile order of disambigua-tion(1)To begin with, we intend to calculate what kindof disambiguation is executed at node 'star_l'and 'star_2', ill Figure 3.
By fornmla (1), (2),~nt,.
(see-1) and P lu to (see- I )  are as follows (sinceboth ambiguous words have two meanings, P\[ntr(i)= P lu to ( i ) ) :1425root,star_l star_2see_ l  see_2 see_l see_20.10 0.05 0.10 0.75Figure 4: An example of the order of disambigua-tion(2)Pi,,t,.
(see_l) -'- 0.9 x (0.75 + 0.05)= 0.72Pauto(see-1) -- max(0.75,0.05)= 0.75Because of Pi.~,.
(see_l) < Pauto(See-1), the au-tomatic disambiguation is executed at.
node see_ l .Oil the other hand, at node see_2, P,,,t,.
(see_2) andPa.to(see-2) are as follows:P i ,~ , .
( see_2)  = 0.18t~,to(see_2) = 0.10Pi,,tr(see_2) > Pa,,to(see-2) is satisfied.
So thesystem interacts with users at this node.By the result of the above, Pi,t,.
(root) andPa,to(root) are as follows:Pi,,t,.
(root) = 0 .9(Pr (see_ l )  -t- P, .
(see_2)): 0.9(Pauto(see-1) + Pi,,t,.
(see-2))= 0 .0(0 .75+ 0.18) = 0.837Pauto(root) = max(Pr (see_ l ) ,P r (see_2) )= max(0.75,0.18) = 0.75Therefore, the interactive disambiguation is ex-ecuted at.
the root.
node because of Pint,.
( root ) >P~to( rOot ), and P~(root) = 0.837.Next, let us explain the case of Figure 4.
Cal-culating the same way as Figure 3, the interactivedisambiguation is executed in any node besides leafones, and P/,t,  (root), P~,to (root) are a.s follows:Pi,,~.
(root)P~,,to( ,'oot )= 0.9(Pr(star_ l )  + Pr(star_2))= 0.9(Pi, tr(s'car_l) + Pint~(star_2))= 0.9(0.765+0.135) : 0.81= max(Pr (s tar_ l ) ,  Pr(sl;ar_2))= max(0.10,0.75) = 0.75Therefore, P,,t~(root) > P~u,o(rOot), andP,.
(root) becomes 0.81.
Comparing with P~(root)of each order, P~(root) of Figure 3 is greater thanthat of Figure 4.
Thus the system interacts withusers against 'see' in the first, place.5 Exper imentsWe applied the proposed method(abbreviated asMP) to the disambiguation of trees of ca lldidatesthat are made for experiments, and compared it withthe method (abbreviated as MA) that executes in-teraction in all nodes.We set the following properties to the tree of can-didates.?
the number of ambiguous words included in aninput sentence?
the mlmber of meanings in an ambiguous word?
the occurrence probability of candidatesTo assign an occurrence probability to each can-didate, a raudom value is given to each candidateabove all, and each value is divided by the sum ofvalues given to all candidates.Figure 5, 6 show the accuracy at the root nodeand the number of interaction, respectively.
In thesefigures, a mark '+' indicates results of MI ).
Each ofthem is the average of 300 trees.
A mark "*" indicatesresults of MA.
Because MA does not prescribe theorder of disambiguation, the result of each tree isthe average of all the orders.ogo asoe~ o 75o7o 65A3.
A~ A~.
o3.
a3~ ~.
e4.
C3.
C~ CS- C,~* 03.
Oa* D6.
Oe.
E6 ES* EIZ.
EI2.
r~.
F6.I~optmy a t r~Figure 5: The accuracy of MP, MAThe horizontal axis means the property of the tree.Each Alphabet in the value of the horizontal axisstands for the number of ambiguous words in a treeand the nunlber of meanings of a word as follows:A:  2x4  D:  2x4x4B:  2x2x4 E: 2x2x4x4C: 2x2x2x4 F: 2x2x2x4x41426?
t4i I ~ ~ i, i i i i i i , i , , i i i i i i , i L i iAa  Aa.
Aa.
A4 .
a3  ~,  84-  B4 .
ca -  Ca .
C6.
CS, Oa.
03 .
t )~ t~.
Ee  ES*  E12 E l2*  e6  r~Figure 6: The nurnber of interaction of MP, MAFor instance, '2 x 4' shows that there are two am-biguous words ill a tree and one ambiguous word hastwo meanings and another word has four meanings.The lmmber in the value of the x-axis representsthe number of the candidate whose occurrence prob-ability is not zero.
Two marks, "+' and '- '  mean thatthe accuracy of interactioll is 0.9, 0.85 respectively.6 D iscuss ion6.1 The  Accuracy  of  D isambiguat ionThe effect of the proposed method on tile accuracyis expressed by the difference of distributions of twolnarks, '+' and '*' in Figure 5.
This shows that theaccuracy of the proposed method is better t.hall thatof MA in ally property of tree.
Table 1 (the line of"Accuracy') shows the minimum, maxinmln, and av-erage values of the ratio of ilnproved accuracy (RIA).The definition of RIA is shown as follows:RIA - acp - aCa1.0 - acawhere acp, ac a is t.he accuracy the result by MPand MA respectively.Table 1: Summary of the resultsMinimum Maximuna AverageAccuracy 0.14 0.23 0.18Interaction -0.06 0.12 0.036.2 The Number of  InteractionTile number of interaction may increase on the con-dition that the accuracy of the analyzed result ismaxinfized.
Ill this section, the degree of the in-crease will be estimated by comparing the numberof interaction of MP with that of MA.
For thispurpose, 'RII' is defined as follows:RI I  -np  - nanwwhere np, na is the number of interaction by MPand MA respectively, 71.,,, is the llumber of ambigu-ous words in an input sentence.
RII represents theratio of the increase ill the number of interaction perambiguous word.
Table l(the lille of 'Interaction')shows the rnininaum, lnaximuna, and average of RII.To reduce the number of interaction, the auto-matte disambiguation is executed instead of execut-ing tile interactive disambiguation, estimating theloss of the accuracy L(i) ill node i. L(i) is definedas follows:L( i )  = P , .
( i ) -  Pat, to ( i )The proposed lnethod will allow the system to re-duce the nunfi)er of interaction, by considering L(i)ill each node.7 Conc lus ionWe have proposed the lnethod of combining theinteractive disalnbiguation and the autonlatic one.The characteristic of our method is that it.
considersthe accuracy of the interactive disambiguat ion.
Thismethod makes three following things possible:?
selecting the disambiguation method that ob-tains higher accuracy?
limiting exl)lanations shown to users?
obtaining the order of disaml)iguation where theaccuracy of the analyzed resuhs is maximized.ReferencesHerve' Blanchon, K. Loken-Kina, and T. Morimoto.1995.
An interactive disambiguation module forEnglish natural language utteracalwes.
In Pro-ce?dings of NLPRS"95, pages 550-555.Ralf D.Brawn and Sergei Nirenburg.
1990.
Humall-computer interaction for semantic disambigua-tion.
Ill Proccedings of COLING-90, pages 42-47.II.
Maruyama and H. Watanabe.
1990.
All interac-tive Japanese parser for machine trallslation.
IllProceedings of COLING-90, pages 257-262.K.
Muraki, S. Akamiue, K. Satoh, and S. Ando.1994.
TWP: How to assist English productionon Japanese word processor.
Ill Proceedings ofCOLING-94, pages 847-852.K.
Nagao and H. Maruyama.
1992.
Ambiguities andtheir resolution in natural language processing.Journal of 1PSJ, 33(7):741-745.M.
Yamaguchi, N. Inui, Y. Kotani, and H. Nisimura.1995.
The design and experimem of all evaluationfunction for user interaction cost ill the interac-tive semantic disambiguation.
Ill Proceedings ofHCI'95, pages 285-290.1427
