The Berkeley FrameNet ProjectCol l in  F. Baker  and Char les  J .
F i l lmore  and John  B. Lowe{collinb, fillmore, jblowe}@icsi.berkeley.eduInternational Computer Science Institute1947 Center St. Suite 600Berkeley, Calif., 94704Abst rac tFrameNet is a three-year NSF-supportedproject in corpus-based computational lexicog-raphy, now in its second year (NSF IRI-9618838,"Tools for Lexicon Building").
The project'skey features are (a) a commitment to corpusevidence for semantic and syntactic generaliza-tions, and (b) the representation f the valencesof its target words (mostly nouns, adjectives,and verbs) in which the semantic portion makesuse of frame semantics.
The resulting databasewill contain (a) descriptions of the semanticframes underlying the meanings of the words de-scribed, and (b) the valence representation (se-mantic and syntactic) of several thousand wordsand phrases, each accompanied by (c) a repre-sentative collection of annotated corpus attes-tations, which jointly exemplify the observedlinkings between "frame elements" and theirsyntactic realizations (e.g.
grammatical func-tion, phrase type, and other syntactic traits).This report will present he project's goals andworkflow, and information about the computa-tional tools that have been adapted or createdin-house for this work.1 I n t roduct ionThe Berkeley FrameNet project 1 is producingframe-semantic descriptions of several thousandEnglish lexical items and backing up these de-scriptions with semantically annotated attesta-tions from contemporary English corpora 2.1The project is based at the International ComputerScience Institute (1947 Center Street, Berkeley, CA).
Afuller bibliography may be found in (Lowe et ai., 1997)2Our main corpus is the British National Corpus.We have access to it through the courtesy of OxfordUniversity Press; the POS-tagged and lemmatized ver-sion we use was prepared by the Institut flit MaschinelleSprachverarbeitung of the University of Stuttgart).
TheThese descriptions are based on hand-taggedsemantic annotations of example sentences ex-tracted from large text corpora and systematicanalysis of the semantic patterns they exem-plify by lexicographers and linguists.
The pri-mary emphasis of the project therefore is theencoding, by humans, of semantic knowledgein machine-readable form.
The intuition of thelexicographers is guided by and constrained bythe results of corpus-based research using high-performance software tools.The semantic domains to be covered are"HEALTH CARE, CHANCE, PERCEPTION, COMMU-NICATION, TRANSACTION, TIME, SPACE, BODY(parts and functions of the body), MOTION, LIFESTAGES, SOCIAL CONTEXT, EMOTION and COG-NITION.1.1 Scope of the Pro jectThe results of the project are (a) a lexical re-source, called the FrameNet database 3, and (b)associated software tools.
The database hasthree major components (described in more de-tail below:?
Lexicon containing entries which are com-posed of: (a) some conventional dictionary-typedata, mainly for the sake of human readers; (b) FOR-MULAS which capture the morphosyntactic ways inwhich elements ofthe semantic frame can be realizedwithin the phrases or sentences built up around theword; (c) links to semantically ANNOTATED EXAM-European collaborators whose participation has madethis possible are Sue Atkins, Oxford University Press,and Ulrich Held, IMS-Stuttgart.SThe database will ultimately contain at least 5,000lexical entries together with a parallel annotated cor-pus, these in formats suitable for integration into appli-cations which use other lexical resources such as Word-Net and COMLEX.
The final design of the database willbe selected in consultation with colleagues at Princeton(WordNet), ICSI, and IMS, and with other members ofthe NLP  community.86PLE SENTENCES which illustrate ach of the poten-tial realization patterns identified in the formula; 4and (d) links to the FRAME DATABASE and to othermachine-readable resources uch as WordNet andCOMLEX.?
Frame Database containing descriptions ofeach frame's basic conceptual structure and givingnames and descriptions for the elements which par-ticipate in such structures.
Several related entries inthis database are schematized in Fig.
1.?
Annotated Example Sentences which aremarked up to exemplify the semantic and morpho-syntactic properties of the lexical items.
(Severalof these are schematized in Fig.
2).
These sentencesprovide mpirical support for the lexicographic anal-ysis provided in the frame database and lexicon en-tries.These three components form a highly rela-tional and tightly integrated whole: elementsin each may point to elements in the othertwo.
The database will also contain estimatesof the relative frequency of senses and comple-mentation patterns calculated by matching thesenses and patterns in the hand-tagged exam-ples against the entire BNC corpus.1.2 Conceptua l  Mode lThe FrameNet work is in some ways similarto efforts to describe the argument structuresof lexical items in terms of case-roles or theta-roles, 5 but in FrameNet, the role names (calledf rame e lements  or FEs)  are local to particularconceptual structures (frames);  some of theseare quite general, while others are specific to asmall family of lexical items.For example, the TRANSPORTATION frame,within the domain of MOTION, providesMOVERS, MEANS of transportation, and PATHS; 64In cases of accidental gaps, clearly marked inventedexamples may be added.5The semantic frames for individual lexical units aretypically "blends" of more than one basic frame; fromour point of view, the so-called "linking" patterns pro-posed in LFG, HPSG, and Construction Grammar, op-erate on higher-level frames of action (giving agent, pa-tient, instrument), motion and location (giving theme,location, source, goal, path), and experience (giving ex-periencer, stimulus, content), etc.
In some but not allcases, the assignment ofsyntactic orrelates to frame el-ements could be mediated by mapping them to the rolesof one of the more abstract frames.8A detailed study of motion predicates would requirea finer-grained analysis of the Path element, separatingout Source and Goal, and perhaps Direction and Area,but for a basic study of the transportation predicatessuch refined analysis is not necessary.
In any case, oursubframes associated with individual words in-herit all of these while possibly adding some oftheir own.
Fig.
1 shows some of the subframes,as discussed below.fra~ne (TRANSPORTATION)frame.elements(MOVER(S), MEANS, PATH)scene(MOVER(S) move along PATH by MEANS)frame(DRiVING)inherit (TRANSPORTATION)frarne.elements(DRIVER (:MOVER), VEHICLE(:MEANS), RIDER(S) (:MOVER(S)), CARGO(=MOVER(S)))scenes(DRIVER starts VEHICLE, DRIVER con-trois VEHICLE, DRIVER stops VEHICLE)frame(RIDING-i)inherit (TRANSP O RTATION)frame.elements(RIDER(S) (=MOVER(S)), VE-HICLE (:MEANS))scenes(RIDER enters VEHICLE,VEHICLE carries RIDER along PATH,RIDER leaves VEHICLE )Figure 1: A subframe can inherit elements andsemantics from its parentThe DRIVING frame, for example, specifies aDRIVER (a principal MOVER), a VEHICLE (a par-ticularization of the MEANS element), and po-tentially CARGO or RIDER as secondary movers.In this frame, the DRIVER initiates and controlsthe movement of the VEHICLE.
For most verbsin this frame, DRIVER or VEHICLE can be real-ized as subjects; VEHICLE, RIDER, or CARGO canappear as direct objects; and PATH and VEHICLEcan appear as oblique complements.Some combinations of frame elements, orF rame E lement  Groups  (FEGs) ,  for somereal corpus sentences in the DRIVING frame areshown in Fig.
2.A RIDING_I frame has the primary mover roleas RIDER, and allows as VEHICLE those drivenby others/  In grammatical realizations of thisframe, the RIDER can be the subject; the VEHI-CLE can appear as a direct object or an obliquecomplement; and the PATH is generally realizedas an oblique.The FrameNet entry for each of these verbswill include a concise formula for all seman-work includes the separate analysis of the flame seman-tics of directional and locational expressions.7A separate frame RIDING_2 that applies to the En-glish verb r/de selects means of transportation that canbe straddled, such as bicycles, motorcycles, and horses.87FEG Annotated Example from BNCDV, DD, PD, R, PD, V, PD+R, PV, P\[D Kate\] drove \[v home\] in astupor.A pregnant woman lost her baby af-ter she fainted as she waited for abus and fell into the path of \[v alorry\] driven \[~ by her uncle\].And that was why \[D I\] drove\[p eastwards along Lake Geneva\].Now \[D Van Cheele\] was driving\[R his guest\] Iv back to the station\].\[D Cumming\] had a fascination withmost forms of transport, driving\[y his Rolls\] at high speed \[p aroundthe streets of London\].\[D We\] drive \[p home along milesof empty freeway\].Over the next 4 days, Iv the RollsRoyces\] will drive \[p down to Ply-mouth\], following the route of therailway.Figure 2: Examples of Frame Element Groupsand Annotated Sentencestic and syntactic ombinatorial possibilities, to-gether with a collection of annotated corpus en-tences in which each possibility is exemplified.The syntactic positions considered relevant forlexicographic description include those that areinternal to the maximal projection of the targetword (the whole VP, AP, or NP for target V, Aor N), and those that are external to the max-imal projection under precise structural condi-tions; the subject, in the case of VP, and thesubject of support verbs in the case of AP andNP.
sUsed in NLP, the FrameNet database shouldmake it possible for a system which finds avalence-bearing lexical item in a text to know(for each of its senses) where its individual argu-ments are likely to be found.
For example, oncea parser has found the verb drive and its directobject NP, the link to the DRIVING frame willsuggest some semantics for that NP, e.g.
thata person as direct object probably representsthe RIDER, while a non-human proper noun isprobably the VEHICLE.For practical lexicography, the contribution ofthe FrameNet database will be its presentationSFor causatives, the object of the support verbis included; for details, see (Fillmore and Atkins,forthcoming).of the full range of use possibilities for individ-ual words, documented with corpus data, themodel examples for each use, and the statisticalinformation on relative frequency.2 Organ izat ion  and  Work f low2.1 Overv iewThe computational side of the FrameNet projectis directed at efficiently capturing human in-sights into semantic structure.
The majorityof the work involved is marking text with se-mantic tags, specifying (again by hand) thestructure of the frames to be treated, and writ-ing dictionary-style entries based the results ofannotation and a priori descriptions.
Withthe exception of the example sentence xtrac-tion component, all the software modules arehighly interactive and have substantial user in-terface requirements.
Most of this functionalityis provided by WWW-based programs writtenin PERL.Four processing steps are required producethe FrameNet database of frame semantic rep-resentations: (a) generating initial descriptionsof semantic and syntactic patterns for use incorpus queries and annotation ("Preparation"),(b) extracting ood example sentences ("Sub-corpus Extraction"), (c) marking (by hand) theconstituents of interest ("Annotation"), and (d)building a database of lexical semantic represen-tations based on the annotations and other data("Entry Writing").
These are discussed brieflybelow and shown in Fig.
3.2.2 Workf low and Personne lAs work on the project has progressed, wehave defined several explicit roles which projectparticipants play in the various steps, theseroles are referred to as Vanguard  (1.1 inFig.
3), Annotators  (3.1) and Rearguard(4.1).
These are purely functional designations:the same person may play different roles at dif-ferent times.
91.
P reparat ion .
The Vanguard (1.1) pre-pares the initial descriptions of frames, includ-ing lists of frames and frame elements, and addsthese to the Frame Database (5.1) using theFrame Description tool (1.2).
The Vanguard90f course there are other staff members who writecode and maintain the databases.
This behind-the-scenes work is not shown in Fig.
3.88Vanguard 1.1Annotators 3.1# ~  alembic~..,~-~'~ \] \[SGMLannotation, / f  ~ .~ \[program 3.2b\[ ~ \[ ~nnom,e?
~~\ ]  EntryLT:\[.,,, D,,:; / ~,,,,,.
5.3 J / TooI IExtraction .
.
~ I - " 2.2 .2 \ [~.
, ,~I xKwIC c".
'Tju'/I "1Rearguard4.1Figure 3: Workflow, Roles, Data Structures and Softwarealso selects the major vocabulary items for theframe (the target words) and the syntactic pat-terns that need to be checked for each word,which are entered in the Lexical Database (5.2)by means of the Lexical Database Tool (1.3).2.
Subcorpus Extraction.
Based onthe Vanguard's work, the subcorpus extractiontools (2.2) produce a representative collection ofsentences containing these words.This selection of examples i achieved througha hybrid process partially controlled by the pre-liminary lexical description of each lemma.
Sen-tences containing the lemma re extracted fromfrom a corpus and classified into subcorporaby syntactic pattern (2.2.1) using a CASCADEFILTER (2.2.2, 2.2.5, 2.2.6) representing a par-tial regular-expression grammar of English overpart-of-speech tags (cf.
Gahl (forthcoming)),formatted for annotation (2.2.4) , and automat-ically sampled (2.2.3) down to an appropriatenumber.
(If these heuristics fail to find appropriateexamples by means of syntactic patterns, sen-tences are selected using INTERACTIVE SELEC-TION TOOLS (2.3)).3.
Annotat ion.
Using the annotation soft-ware (3.2) and the tagsets (3.2.1) derived fromthe Frame Database, the Annotators (3.1) markselected constituents in the extracted subcor-pora according to the frame elements whichthey realize, and identify canonical examples,novel patterns, and problem sentences.
1?4.
Entry  Writing.
The Rearguard (4.1)reviews the skeletal exical record created bythe Vanguard, the annotated example sentences(5.3), and the FEGs extracted from them, andbuilds both the entries for the lemmas in theLexical Database (5.2) and the frame descrip-tions in the Frame Database (5.1), using theEntry Writing Tools (4.2).l?We are building a "constituent type identifier" whichwill semi-automatically assign Grammatical Function(GF), and Phrase Type (PT) attributes to these FE-marked constituents, eliminating the need for Annota-tors to mark these.893 Implementat ion3.1 Data  Mode lThe data structures described above are im-plemented in SGML.
n Each is described by aDTD, and these DTDs are structured to providethe necessary links between the components.3.2 Sof twareThe software suite currently supportingdatabase development is an aggregate ofexisting software tools held together withPERL/CGI-based "glue".
In order to get theproject started, we have depended on off-the-shelf software which in some cases is not idealfor our purposes.
Nevertheless, using theseprograms allowed us to get the project up andrunning within just a few months.
We describebelow in approximate order of application theprograms used and their state of completion.?
Frame Description Tool (1.2) (in development)An interactive, web-based tool.?
Lexical Description Tool (1.3) (prototype) Aninteractive, web-based tool.?
CQP (2.2.1) is a high-performance CorpusQuery Processor, developed at IMS Stuttgart (IMS,1997).
The cascade filter, which partitions lemma-specific subcorpora by syntactic patterns, is builtusing a preprocessor (written in PERL, 2.2.2) whichgenerates CQP's native query language.?
XKWIC (2.3) is an X-window, interactive tool,also from IMS, which facilitates manipulating cor-pora and subcorpora.?
Subcorpora re prepared for annotation by aprogram ("arf" for Annotation Ready Formatter,2.2.4) which wraps SGML tags around sentences,target words, comments and other distinguishabletext elements.
Another program, "whittle" (2.2.3),combines ubcorpora in a preselected order, remov-ing very long and very short sentences, and samplingto reduce large subcorpora.?
Alembic (3.2) (Mitre, 1998), allows the inter-active markup (in SGML) of text files according topredefined tagsets (3.2.1).
It is used to introduceframe element annotations into the subcorpora.?
Sgmlnorm, etc.
(from James Clark's SGML toolset) are used to validate and manage the SGML files.?
Entry Writing Tools (4.2) (in development)?
Database management tools to manage the cat-alog of subcorpora, schedule the work, render thenEventually, we plan to migrate to an XML datamodel, which appears to provide more flexibility whilereducing complexity.
Also, the FrameNet software isbe-ing developed on Unix, but we plan to provide cross-platform capabilities by making our tool suite web-basedand XML-compatible.SGML files into HTML for convenient viewing onthe web, etc.
are being written in PERL.
RCS main-tains version control over most files.4 Conc lus ionAt the time of writing, there is something inplace for each of the major software compo-nents, though in some cases these are little morethan stubs or "toy" implementations.
Nearly10,000 sentences exemplifying just under 200lemmas have been annotated; there are over20,000 frame element tokens marked in theseexample sentences.
About a dozen frames havebeen specified, which refer to 47 named frameelements.
Most of these annotations have beenaccomplished in the last few months since thesoftware for corpus extraction, frame descrip-tion, and annotation became operational.
Weexpect the inventory to increase rapidly.
If theproportions cited hold constant as the Framenetdatabase grows, the final database of 5,000 lex-ical units may contain 250,000 annotated sen-tences and over half a million tokens of frameelements.ReferencesCharles J. Fillmore and B. T. S. Atkins.
forth-coming.
FrameNet and lexicographic rele-vance.
In Proceedings of the First Inter-national Conference On Language ResourcesAnd Evaluation, Granada, Spain, P8-30 May1998.Susanne Gahl.
forthcoming.
Automatic extrac-tion of subcorpora based on subcategoriza-tion frames from a part of speech tagged cor-pus.
In Proceedings o/ the 1998 COLING-A CL conference.Institut f'dr maschinelle SprachverarbeitungIMS.
1997.
IMS corpus toolbox webpage at stuttgart, http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/~oli/CorpusToolbox/.John B. Lowe, Collin F. Baker, and Charles J.Fillmore.
1997.
A frame-semantic approachto semantic annotation.
In Tagging Text withLexical Semantics: Why, What, and How?Proceedings of the Workshop, pages 18-24.Special Interest Group on the Lexicon, Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, April.Mitre.
1998.
Alembic Work-bench web page at Mitre corp.http: //www.mitre.org/resources/ centers/advanced_info/g04h/workbench.html.90
