An Intelligent Multi-Dictionary EnvironmentGdbor  Pr6sz6kyMorphoLogicK6smfirki u.
8., H-1118 Budapest, Hungaryproszeky @ morphologic.huAbstractAn open, extendible multi-dictionary sys-tem is introduced in the paper.
It supportsthe translator in accessing adequate ntriesof various bi- and monolingual dictionariesand translation examples from parallel cor-pora.
Simultaneously an unlimited numberof dictionaries can be held open, thus by asingle interrogation step, all the dictionaries(translations, explanations, ynonyms, etc.
)can be surveyed.
The implemented system(called MoBiDic) knows morphologicalrules of the dictionaries' languages.
Thus,never the actual (inflected) words, but al-ways their lemmas - that is, the right dic-tionary entries - are looked up.
MoBiDichas an open, multimedial architecture, thusit is suitable for handling not only textual,but speaking or picture dictionaries, as well.The same system is also able to find wordsand expressions in corpora, dynamicallyproviding the translators with examplesfrom their earlier translations or othertranslators' works.
MoBiDic has been de-signed for translator workgroups, where thetranslators' own glossaries (built also withthe help of the system) may also be dis-seminated among the members of thegroup, with different access rights, ifneeded.
The system has a TCP/IP-basedclient-server implementation for variousplatforms and available with a gradually in-creasing number of dictionaries for numer-ous language pairs.Introduction"The whole world of translation is opening up, tonew possibilities, and to technological nd meth-odological change" (Kingscott 1993).
Some yearsafter the above claim, we see that software toolsfor translators, even the most recent ones, do notyet guarantee perfect solutions to automatictranslation.
More and more systems introduce,however, new facilities to the translator workingin a computational environment.
As Hutchinssays, "the best use must be made of those systemsthat are available, and the producers and develop-ers must be encouraged to improve and introducenew facilities to meet user needs."
(Hutchins1996)It is almost a commonplace that texts - books,newspapers, letters, official memos, brochures,any type of publications, reports, etc.
- in thenineties are written, sent, read and translated withthe help of the electronic media.
Consequently,traditional information sources, like paper-baseddictionaries, and lexicons, are no longer as much apart of the translation environment.Electronic dictionaries for most developers justmean, however, to make the well-known paperdictionary image appear on the computer screen.It is easy to understand why we say that dictionarycomputerization does not mean producing ma-chine-readable v rsions of traditional printed dic-tionaries, but the combination of the existing lexi-cal resources with up-to-date language technol-ogy.On the other hand, there is a question whetherwe have to continue in the traditional way of de-veloping new - and different - lexicons for anynew application/system, starting from scratchevery time and therefore consuming time, moneyand manpower, or is it new lexicons.In what follows, timely to think of the possi-bility of making the effort to converge, trying toavoid unnecessary duplications and - where pos-sible - building on what already exists (Calzolari1994).
Consequently, in the near future we haveto combine the two above needs: making existing1067lexical resources computationally accessible andshowing the strategy how to develop we try to ar-gue for changes in development strategies ofelectronic translation dictionaries.
Today's ling-ware technology can - and must - use dynamicactions, like morpho-syntactic analysis, lemmati-zation, spell checking, and so on.
On the otherhand, dictionaries can never be full in any sense,therefore we have to make parallel multi-dictionary access possible.
It means that a singledictionary look-up should use an unlimited num-ber of lexical resources that are available for thetranslator.1 The MoBiDic Look-up SystemTo start with the most natural activity concerningdictionaries is searching them for a single word.There is no problem if it can be found among theheadwords of the dictionary, that is, when the in-put string can match.
But sometimes the translatorstarts the look-up process by clicking an inflectedword-form of an open document hat cannot befound among the headwords.
For the user it is aboring and time-consuming task to type the lexicalform, that is, the one accepted letter-by-letter bythe dictionary.
To make the system able to findthe stem of the input word-form automatically,MoBiDic uses a lemmatizer that provides the dic-tionary look-up module with the stem(s) to befound (Figure 1).Translators frequently want to find the word asa part of multi-word expressions or idioms.
If theuser does not know whether the actual word ispart of some phrasal compound or idiom, the tra-ditional paper dictionaries are very difficult touse.
Namely, if the word in question is the so-called headword of a multi-word expression, itcan be found easily.
In case it is not the headword,one has to know the phrasal compound the wordis a part of, but it is a typical "Catch 22" Situation:if the expression is known why to search the dic-tionary for it?
MoBiDic helps the user to find allthe multi-word expressions containing the actualword's stem, independently whether it is a head-word or not.
E.g.
not only 'lead' but both 'dog' and'//fe' provide us (among others) with the multi-word expression 'lead a dog's life' that can befound under 'lead' only in a paper dictionary.
Inother words, users of the traditional dictionariesk :~: rm~ I II II II .. !D I  :,..II .N~ kit~ os2" lel?
ess el kimer, lel~'P, vegi~/al I .
(k ~ eft.)
lie k alli l leill i 141 tt/ddl laNtlil, 1~ ~ a migliia~s-[elm z [.~] (v#.
)~sgel~eitet 2.
(hezuk6I) elme ~#,, t ~ivo2~k.
16me lty leer am~ekem ~ei~l[ [ [ [ [ [ [ [gmnim[ i i [m 3, ~au)l; k~akul 4. kiallzik, elels:~, ~haravadeusgekss:en 5. elfoID", elt~mik, elv~zeu~en~c~ 6.v~gz~d~ au~em~e~ ~ .
.
7. our  e~.)
(~mi~ e) t ~ek~ik, (~mit) h aj ~r~l, ('emit) h ejla~zem~echnet , seLq Plan ge i i  ~ra~ iu  az a ~rveausgei~.oche~ ~I  9. au~e~em lu#en kib oc i ~tFigure 1Look-up of a morphologically complex inflected form:'ausgegangen' i  a German-Hungarian dictionary.are supposed to know the expression (what'smore: the keyword of the expression) to find it inthe lexicon.
Search for 'leada dog's life' throughits components gives the following result inMoBiDic:lead {lead, leads, leading, led}27 occurrences inexpressions of the basic dictionary,dog {dog, dogs, dog's, dogs'}21 occurrences in expressions of the basic dictionary,life {life, lives, life's, lives'}77 occurrences inexpressions of the basic dictionary,lead AND life5 occurrences inexpressions of the basic dictionary,dog AND life2 occurrences inexpressions of the basic dictionary,lead AND dog1 occurrence inexpressions of the basic dictionary,lead a dog's lifeI occurrence as an expression i the basic dictionary.
'Bi' is somewhat misleading in the name Mo-BiDic.
Bilingual in this sense means that thesource and the target language are not the sametypes of object for the program.
For MoBiDic,source language is the language the morphologyof which has to be known, to provide the userwith adequate output.
The output is expected to bein the target language - the characters, the alpha-betic order, etc.
of which has to be known to makethe hits appear on the screen in adequate format.Of course, the source and target languages can bethe same, e.g.
in explanatory or etymological dic-tionaries (Figure 2).1068Figure 2Hungarian explanation of 'acceptable quality level' inthe English-Hungarian Economical Explanatory Dic-tionary.There is an another sort of monolingual dic-tionary, the synonym dictionary.
The translatorfrequently wants to use a synonym (antonym, hy-pernym, hyponym) of the actual word.
An intelli-gent software tool, like MorphoLogic's Helyette 1,is the combination of a thesaurus (synonym dic-tionary), a morphological nalyzer and a genera-tor, because the output is re-inflected according tothe morphological information contained by theinput word-form.
The - so-called inflectional -thesaurus works as follows:INPUT: cameANALYSIS : came = come + PastSTEM: comeSYNONYM: goSYNTHESIS: go + Past = wentOUTPUT: wentThere are special sorts of information in a dic-tionary.
For example, pronunciation is ot typi-cally needed for translation, but can be useful forlanguage learners.
Pronunciation of the word is,therefore, an information that should be switchedon and off, according to the user's needs.
In anelectronic dictionary it is expected that not onlythe written phonetic transcription, but also thespoken output can be heard.
If the dictionary sup-ports multimedia, explanatory pictures can helpunderstand the word, even for professionals, notfor language learners only (Fig.
3).If the translator makes a spelling error, first aspeller starts, and then the corrected word-form issent to the dictionary look-up system.Examples do belong to the entries of large,professional paper dictionaries.
In electronic dic-To be combined with MoBiDic in the near future.tionaries occurrences of the word in texts of otherauthors, or wants to see bilingual texts with theiraligned translations: monolingual or aligned bilin-gual corpus, a free text search module and a lem-matizer.2 Dictionaries in MoBiDicThe lexicographic basis for MoBiDic is sup-plied by various publishing houses.
More pre-cisely, MorphoLogic has licenses to almost 50dictionaries already published in paper format ofmiscellaneous topics, diverse sizes and many lan-guage pairs.
The user can choose which dictionaryto use in general, and which of them open actu-ally.
Currently, if all the available dictionaries areopen, MoBiDic handles approximately 1 millionlexical entries.Some of the dictionaries, mainly the termino-logical ones, have usually a very simple list-basedstructure.
Dictionaries shown by Figure 1 andFigure 2, however, appear on the screen with thetraditional paper dictionary image.
It is done byusing SGML representations and an on-lineSGML-RTF conversion.
MoBiDic can do exactstructural search not influenced by the layout atall.Generally, the original lexical resource - evenit has been available in electronic format - did notuse SGML.
For this reason, a special system for asemi-automatic conversion of some formatted textfiles containing dictionary data to SGML formathas been developed for the MoBiDic environ-ment.
This system is not available for the end-users, it serves industrial purposes.
2 First, in orderto enable selective access to the information indictionary entries, a thorough structural analysis isdone, while inconsistent and faulty entries aremarked.
They are corrected later, manually.
Theresulting SGML-annotated ictionaries are en-hanced with the necessary indexes.
They arelemma-variants and expanded sub-entries madewith the help of existing language technologymodules (Pr6szrky 1994).Users like to work with their own little vo-cabularies, glossaries, and the professional trans-lator is usually asked to use official translation2 See http://www.morphologic.hu/esgml.htm1069equivalents provided by the employer.
Theseglossaries are generally never published, but thereis a need to us them in the same environment.MoBiDic is able to treat user dictionaries con-taining any type of information sources (lexicons,encyclopedias nd dictionaries).Figure 3'grapes' (from the PicDIC picture dictionary)with pronunciation in MoBiDic"_t :1 ~u~`t " i  i+ , +~ I + ?dmy ['dju:tl] n I kbte less+g,fe ladat  2 on /o f f  ~ ~o lg /datban ,fzsyeleteslszolg/daton ~vfal 3 vlan4 ~free vimamentesI l l  E,,~.h "I~ l v 6 m  Ilcladat I" 1 duty [Benldn 9 (SGML]  lI__.~l au%, lauW.ess ISGULII-- II=  I I  d,~ pnformatics [SGMLI -  ~" ""~ iL, tsGuuiFigure 4Search for the (lemma of) 'duties' in a set of English-Hungarian dictionariesThe strength of this method is that user dic-tionaries are looked up for a word exactly whenother dictionaries, thus translator's remarks canalso be read when other dictionaries provide theuser with their translation equivalents.
Here wehave to emphasize again that MoBiDic is not yetanother electronic dictionary, but a multi-dictionary environment where a single word issent to every open dictionary by a single mouse-click.
In Figure 4 the user started from the word-form "duties ', and eight dictionaries (that are openand contain English either on the source or thetarget side) send translations to the screen.3 Implementation FeaturesThe most recent development is MoBiDic's cli-ent-server implementation.
Its server side (Win-dows NT, Unix and Novell) consists, in fact, oftwo servers: the linguistic server and the diction-ary server.
The user interface and screen handlingmodules will take place on the (Win, Mac, Linux,Java, etc.)
client side.There are many software modules of other ven-dors on the market hat can also be combined withMoBiDic through its well-defined applicationprogramming interface (API).
With the help ofthis API the user can communicate to the othermodules from MoBiDic without leaving it.
Be-cause of technical and legal reasons, it can, ofcourse, be done in collaboration with the devel-oper of the product in question.
The picture dic-tionary shown by Figure 4 is a working example:the vocabulary part of the (also commercial)CALL program called PicDIC is available forMoBiDic users from the familiar environment.Translators who generally use their favoriteword-processor while translating can use Mo-BiDic from their word-processing tools with thehelp of the included macros.
Another importantissue is that users can use their CD-ROM drive forother purposes while translating.
Namely, Mo-BiDic has minimal space requirement because ofits compression method 3, therefore the full dic-tionary system can be copied to the hard disk: thusthe CD drive is freed and can be used for otherpurposes.4 Comparison with other methodsThere are several dictionary programs both inlaboratories and on the market, but only some ofthem share the so-called "intelligent" featureswith MoBiDic.
Rank Xerox developed in theCOMPASS and Locolex projects a prototype thataccesses enhanced and structurally elaborateddictionaries with an intelligent, context-sensitive3 Average 1-2 Mb/dictionary.1070look-up procedure, presenting the information tothe user through an attractive graphical interface.
(Feldweg and Breidt 1996) Unlike MoBiDic, itdoes not have access to more than one dictionaryat the same time.
Consequently, user dictionariesare not supported.
SGML is, however, used bothin the dictionary and the corpus modules.
There isa focus on the intelligent treatment of multi-wordunits in the IDAREX formalism (Breidt et al1996).
Another project with similar aims isGLOSSER.
Its prototype (Nerbonne t al.
1997)carries out a morphological analysis of the sen-tence in which the selected word occurs and a sto-chastic disambiguation f the word class informa-tion.
This information is then matched against a(single, but SGML) dictionary and corpora.
TheGLOSSER prototype displays context dependenttranslations and on request, examples from theavailable corpora.
Neither of the above develop-ments nor other web dictionary services (e.g.WordBot) share all the important features withMoBiDic: client-server architecture, multi-dictionary access, user dictionary handling, par-allel (and intelligent) dictionary and corpus look-up.
What's more, MoBiDic is commercially alsoavailable, that is tested by thousands of "real"end-users.ConclusionMoBiDic is a multi-dictionary translation envi-ronment based on a client-server architecture.
Itconsists of the following main parts: linguisticserver, dictionary server and the client with thegraphical user interface.
There are several bene-fits:(1) the linguistic server is dictionary independentand language dependent4;(2) the dictionary server has intelligent access tovarious sorts of dictionaries (from SGML tomultimedia) and bilingual corpora;4 Recently, English, German, Hungarian, Polish, Czechand Romanian morphological components are avail-able for the MoBiDic users.
Descriptions for furtherlanguages are under development, see the web sitehttp://www.morphologic.hu for the actual ist of lan-guages.
(3) simultaneously an unlimited number of dic-tionaries can be held open, thus by a singleinterrogation step, all the dictionaries (withtranslations, explanations, ynonyms, etc.)
canbe surveyed;(4) the translators' own glossaries built with thehelp of the system may also be disseminated(as new dictionaries, with the needed copy-rights) among other users, if needed;(5) it has an open architecture and a well-definedAPI;.
(6) it has been implemented and is available witha gradually increasing number of dictionariesfor numerous language pairs.MoBiDic is, therefore, not a research project only,but a set of translation tools for a wider public.ReferencesBreidt.
E., F. Segond and G. Valetto (1994) LocalGrammars for the Description of Multi-Word Lexe-mes and Their Automatic Recognition in Texts.
Pa-pers in Computational Lexicography, Linguistics In-stitute, HAS, Budapest, pp.
19-28.Calzolari, N. (1994) Issues for Lexicon Building.
In: A.Zampolli, N. Calzolari & M. Palmer (eds.)
CurrentIssues in Computational Linguistics: In Honour ofDon Walker.
Kluwer / Giardini Editori, Pisa, pp.267-281.Feldweg, H. and E. Breidt.
(1996) COMPASS - AnIntelligent Dictionary System for Reading Text in aForeign Language.
Papers in Computational Lexi-cography, Linguistics Institute, HAS, Budapest, pp.53--62.Hutchins, J.
(1996) Introduction.
Proceediings of theEAMT Machine Translation Workshop, Vienna, pp.7-8.Kingscott, G. (1993) Applications of Machine Transla-tion.
In: Transferre necesse st... (Current Issues ofTranslation Theory), Szombathely, pp.
239-248.Nerbonne, L. Karttunen, E. Paskaleva, G. Pr6szrky andT.
Roosmaa (1997) Reading More into Foreign Lan-guages.
Proceedings of the Fifth Conference on Ap-plied Natural Language Processing, Washington..Pr6szrky, G. (1994) Industrial Applications of Unifica-tion Morphology.
Proceedings of the 4th Conferenceon Applied Natural Language Processing, Stuttgart,pp.
157-159.1071
