A Model for Robust Processing of Spontaneous Speechby Integrating Viable Fragments*Karsten L. WormUniversit~it des SaarlandesComputerlinguistikD-66041 Saarbriicken, Germanyworm@co li.
uni- sb.
deAbstractWe describe the design and function of a robust pro-cessing component which is being developed for theVerbmobil speech translation system.
Its task con-sists of collecting partial analyses of an input utter-ance produced by three parsers and attempting tocombine them into more meaningful, larger units.
Itis used as a fallback mechanism in cases where nocomplete analysis panning the whole input can beachieved, owing to spontaneous speech phenomenaor speech recognition errors.1 IntroductionIn this paper we describe the function and designof the robust semantic processing component whichwe are currently developing in the context of theVerbmobil speech translation project.
We aim at im-proving the system's performance in terms of cov-erage and quality of translations by combining frag-mentary analyses when no spanning analysis of theinput can be derived because of spontaneous speechphenomena or speech recognition errors.2 The Verbmobil ContextVerbmobil (Wahlster, 1997) is a large scale researchproject in the area of spoken language translation.Its goal is to develop a system that translates ne-gotiation dialogues between speakers of German,English and Japanese in face-to-face or video con-ferencing situations.
The integrated system devel-oped during the first project phase (1993-96), theResearch Prototype, was successfully demonstrated* The author wishes to thank his colleagues Johan Bos,Aljoscha Burchardt, Bj6rn Gamb~ick, Walter Kasper, BemdKiefer, Uli Krieger, Manfred Pinkal, Tobias Ruland, C. J. Rupp,J6rg Spilker, and Hans Weber for their collaboration.
This re-search was supported by the German Federal Ministry for Ed-ucation, Science, Research and Technology under grant no.
01IV 701 R4.in autumn 1996 (Bub et al, 1997).
The final Verb-mobil Prototype is due in 2000.Verbmobil employs different approaches to ma-chine translation.
A semantic transfer approach(Doma and Emele, 1996) based on a deep linguisticanalysis of the input utterance competes with statis-tical, example based and dialogue act based transla-tion approaches.The spoken input is mapped onto a word hypothe-sis graph (WHG) by a speech recognizer.
A prosodycomponent divides the input into segments and an-notates the WHGs with prosodic features.
Withinthe semantic transfer line of processing, three dif-ferent parsers (an HPSG-based chart parser, a chunkparser using cascaded finite state automata, anda statistical parser) attempt o analyse the pathsthrough the WHG syntactically and semantically.All three deliver their analyses in the VIT format(see 3).
The parsers' work is coordinated by an inte-grated processing component which chooses pathsthrough the WHG to be analysed in parallel by theparsers until an analysis panning the whole input isfound or the system reaches a time limit.Since in many cases no complete analysis pan-ning the whole input can be found, the parsers pro-duce partial analyses along the way and send themto the robust semantic processing component, whichstores and combines them to yield analyses of largerparts of the input.
We describe this component insection 5.The relevant part of the system's architecture isshown in Figure 1.3 The V IT  FormatThe VIT (short for Verbmobil Interface Term) wasdesigned as a common output format for the twoalternative and independently developed syntactic-semantic analysis components of the first projectphase (Bos et al, 1998).
Their internal semantic for-malisms differed, but both had to be attached to a1403' Speech _lRecognition dr\[Prosody \]\[nition &iHPSG \[ Dialogue andParser \[ Context \[I n tegrated  I._-.~,~Vi.i.s,l_,.~ Semantic I-'~"-~'-(T,'-'/""~ Transfer ~ VIT \]Process ing  .
: I ~ I l'roccssmK I ~ I IChunk Statistical SynthesisParser ParserFigure 1: Part of the system architecture.single transfer module.
The need for a common out-put format is still present, since there are three al-ternative syntactic-semantic parsing modules in thenew Verbmobil system, all of which again produceoutput for just one transfer module.
(1) vit(vitID(sid(l,a,ge,O,20,l,ge,y,semantics),\[word(montag, 13, \[II16\]),word(ist,14, \[ii17\]),word(gut,15, \[lllOl)l),index(lll3,1109,il04),\[decl(lll2,hl05),gut(lllO,il05),dofw(lll6,ilO5,mon),support(lll7,il04,1110),indef(llll,ilO5,1115,hl06)\],\[ccom_plug(hl05,1114),ccom_plug(h106,1109),in g(ii12,1113),in_g(lll7,1109),in_g(lll6,1115),in_g(llll,lll4),leq(lll4,hlO5),leq(llO9,hl06),leq(llOg,hl05)\],Is sort(ilO5,time)l,\[\],\[num(ilO5,sg),pers(il05,3)\],\[ta_mood(ilO4,ind),ta_tense(ilO4,pres),ta_perf(ilO4,nonperf)\],\[\])The VIT can be viewed as a theory-independentrepresentation for underspecified semantic repre-sentations (Bos et al, 1996).
It specifies aset of dis-course representation structures, DRSs, (Kamp andReyle, 1993).
If an utterance is structurally ambigu-ous, it will be represented by one VIT, which spec-ifies the set of DRSs corresponding to the differentreadings of the utterance.Formally, a VIT is a nine-place PROLOG term.There are slots for an identifier for the input segmentto which the VIT corresponds, a list of the core se-mantic predicates, a list of scopal constraints, yn-tactic, prosodic and pragmatic information as wellas tense and aspect and sortal information.
An ex-ample of a VIT for the sentence Montag ist gut('Monday is fine') is given in (1).4 Approaches to RobustnessThere are three stages in processing where a speechunderstanding system can be made more robustagainst spontaneous speech phenomena and recog-nizer errors: before, during, or after parsing.
Whilewe do not see them as mutually exclusive, we thinkthat the first two present significant problems.4.1 Before parsingDetection of self corrections on transcriptions be-fore parsing has been explored (Bear et al, 1992;Nakatani and Hirschberg, 1993), but it is not clearthat it will be feasible on WHGs, since recognitionerrors interfere and the search space may explodedue to the number of paths.
Dealing with recogni-tion errors before parsing is impossible due to lackof structural information.4.2 During parsingTreating the phenomena mentioned uring parsingwould mean that the grammar or the parser wouldhave to be made more liberal, i. e. they would haveo accept strings which are ungrammatical.
This isproblematic in the context of WHG parsing, sincethe parser has to simultaneously perform two tasks:Searching for a path to be analysed and analysing itas well.If the analysis procedure is too liberal, it mayalready accept and analyse an ungrammatical pathwhen a lower ranked path which is grammatical is1404also present in the WHG.
I. e., the search throughthe WHG would not be restricted enough.5 Robust Semantic ProcessingOur approach addresses the problems mentioned af-ter parsing.
In many cases the three parsers willnot be able to find a path through the WHG thatcan be assigned acomplete and spanning syntactic-semantic analysis.
This is mainly due to two factors:?
spontaneous speech phenomena, nd?
speech recognition errors.However, the parsers will usually be able to delivera collection of partial analyses - -  each covering apart of a path through the WHG.The goal of the robust semantic processing com-ponent in Verbmobil-2 is to collect these partialanalyses and try to put them together on the basisof heuristic rules to produce deep linguistic analy-ses even if the input is not completely analysable.We speak of robust semantic processing since weare dealing with VITs which primarily represent se-mantic content and apply rules which refer to se-mantic properties and semantic structures.The task splits into three subtasks:1.
Storing the partial analyses for different WHG(sub)paths from different parsers;2.
Combining partial analyses to yield biggerstructures;3.
Choosing a sequence of partial analyses fromthe set of hypotheses as output.These subtasks are discussed in the following sub-sections.
Section 5.4 contains examples of the prob-lems mentioned and outlines their treatment in theapproach described.5.1 Storing Partial AnalysesThe first task of the robust semantic processing isto manage apossibly large number of partial analy-ses, each spanning acertain sub-interval of the inpututterance.The basic mode of processing - -  store competinganalyses and combine them to larger analyses, whileavoiding unnecessary edundancy - - resembles thatof a chart parser.
Indeed we use a chart-like datastructure to store the competing partial analyses de-livered by the parsers and new hypotheses obtainedby combining existing ones.
All the advantages ofthe chart in chart parsing are preserved: The chartallows the storage of competing hypotheses, evenfrom different sources, without redundancy.Since the input to the parsers consists of WHGsrather than strings, the analyses entered cannot referto the string positions they span.
Rather they haveto refer to a time interval.
This means also that thechart cannot be indexed by string positions, but isindexed by the time frames the speech recognizeruses.
This makes necessary slight modifications tothe chart handling algorithms.5.2 Combining Partial AnalysesWe use a set of heuristic rules to describe the con-ditions under which two or more partial analysesshould be combined, an analysis hould be left outor modified.
Each rule specifies the conditions un-der which it should be applied, the operations to beperformed, and what the result of the rule applica-tion is.
Rules have the following format (in PROLOGnotation):\ [Cond l  .
.
.
.
.
CondN\ ]  - - ->\ [Opl  .
.
.
.
.
OpN\ ]  & Resu l t .The left hand side consists of a list of conditionson partial analyses, Cond2 being a condition (or alist of conditions) on the first partial analysis (VIT),etc., where the order of conditions parallels the ex-pected temporal order of the analyses.
When theseconditions are met, the rule fires and the operationsOp 1 etc.
are performed on the input VITs.
One VIT,Resu l t ,  is designated as the result of the rule.
Af-ter applying the rule, an edge annotated with thisVIT is entered into the chart, spanning the minimumtime frame that includes the spans of all the analyseson the left hand side.
Examples for rules are givenin 5.4.5.3 Choosing a ResultWhen no more analyses are produced by the parsersand all applicable rules have been applied, the laststep is to choose a 'best' sequence of analyses fromthe chart which covers the whole input and deliverit to the transfer module.
In the ideal case, there willbe an analysis panning the whole input.Currently, we employ a simple search whichtakes into account he acoustic scores of the WHGpaths the analyses are based on, together with thelength and coverage of the individual analyses.The length is defined as the length of the temporalinterval an analysis pans; an analysis with a greaterlength is preferred.
The coverage of an analysis is1405the sum of the lengths of the component analysesit consists of.
Note that the coverage of an analysiswill be less than its length iff some material insidethe interval the analysis spans has been left out inthe analysis; hence length and coverage are equalfor the analyses produced by the parsers, l Analyseswith greater coverage are preferred.5.4 ExamplesThe examples in this section are taken from theVerbmobil corpus of appointment scheduling dia-logues.
The problems we address here appeared inWHGs produced by a speech recognizer on the orig-inal audio data.5.4.1 Missing prepositionSince function words like prepositions are usuallyshort, speech recognizers often have trouble rec-ognizing them.
Consider an example where thespeaker uttered Mir wtire es am liebsten in denniichsten zwei Wochen ('During the next two weekswould be most convenient for me').
However, theWHG contains no path which includes the prepo-sition in in an appropriate position.
Consequently,the parsers delivered analyses for the segments Mirware es am liebsten and den niichsten zwei Wochen.These fragments are handled by two rules.
Thefirst turns a temporal NP like the second fragmentinto a temporal modifier, expressing that somethingis standing in an underspecified temporal relation tothe temporal entity the NP denotes:\ [ temporal_np(Vl )  \] --->\ [ typera ise  to mod(VI ,V2) \ ]  & V2.Then a very general rule can apply that modifier tothe proposition expressed by the first fragment:\ [ type(Vl ,prop) , type(V2,mod)\]  --->\ [apply(V2,V l ,V3) \ ]  & V3.5.4.2 Self-Correction of a ModifierHere the speaker uttered Wir treffen uns am Montag,nein, am Dienstag ('We will meet on Monday, no,on Tuesday').
The parsers deliver three fragments,the first being a proposition containing a modifier,the second an interjection marking a correction, andthe third a modifier of the same type as the one in theproposition.
Under these conditions, we replace themodifier inside the proposition with the one utteredafter the correction marker:~The chunk parser may be an exception here since it some-times leaves out words it cannot integrate into an analysis.\[ \[type (Vl,prop),has mod (Vi ,Mi ,ModType) \] ,cor rec t ion_marker  (_) ,\[ type (V2, mod),has_mod (V2, M2, ModType) \] \]---> \ [ rep lace_mod(V i ,M i ,M2,V3) \ ]  & V3.5.4.3 Self-Correction of a VerbIn this case, the speaker uttered Am Montag treffe...habe ich einen Terrain., i. e. decided to continue theutterance in a different way than originally intended.The parsers deliver fragments for, among others, thesubstrings am Montag, treffe, habe, ich, and einenTerrain (all the partial analyses received from theparsers and built up by robust semantic processingare shown in the chart 2 in Figure 2).Robust semantic processing then builds analysesby applying modifiers to verbal predicates (e. g.,analyses 71,108) and verbal functors to possible ar-guments (e. g., 20, 106, 47).
The latter is done bythe following two rules:\[ type (Vl, Type) , unbound_arg  (V2, Type) \]---> \ [apply(V2,Vi ,V3) \ ]  & V3.\[ unbound_arg  (VI, Type ) , type (V2, Type ) \]---> \ [apply(V l ,V2,V3) \ ]  & V3.Note that einen Termin is not considered to be a pos-sible argument of the verb treffe since that wouldviolate the verb's sortal selection restrictions.After all partial analyses produced by the parsershave been entered into the chart and all applicablerules have been applied, there is still no spanninganalysis (all analyses in Figure 2 are there, exceptthe spanning one numbered 105).
In such a case,the robust semantic processing component proceedsby extending active edges over passive dges whichend in a chart node in which only one passive edgeends, or all passive edges ending there correspondto partial analyses till missing arguments.In this example, this applies to the node in whichedges 1 and 71 end, which both are missing the twoarguments of the transitive verb treffe.
Applicationof the proposition modification rule mentioned inSection 5.4.1 to the modifyer PP am Montag hasled to an active edge still looking for a proposi-tion.
This is now being extended to end at the samenode as the two passive edges missing arguments.
:The analyses in the chart are numbered; the numbers insquare brackets indicate the immediate constituents an analysishas been built from by robust semantic processing.
I e., anal-yses with an empty list of immediate constituents have beenproduced by a parser.1406105: am montafl, +habe+ich+einen temlin IGZt47\]~ 107: te~rfe.lch i 1,lS27: habe.ich n terrain 120,4S1 \[Figure 2: The chart for Am Montag treffe ... habe ich einen Termin.There, it finds an edge corresponding to a propo-sition, namely edge 47, which had been built upearlier.
The result is passive dge 105 spanning thewhole input and expressing the right interpretation.6 Related WorkAn approach similar to the one described here wasdeveloped by Ros6 (Rosr, 1997).
However, that ap-proach works on interlingual representations of ut-terance meanings, which implies the loss of all lin-guistic constraints on the combinatorics of partialanalyses.
Apart from that, only the output of oneparser is considered.7 Conclusion and OutlookWe have described a model for the combination ofpartial parsing results and how it can be applied inorder to improve the robustness ofa speech process-ing system.
A prototype version was integrated intothe Verbmobil system in autumn 1997 and is cur-rently being extended.We are working on improving the selection of re-suits by using a stochastic model of V1T sequenceprobabilities, on the extension of the rule set tocover more spontaneous speech phenomena ofGer-man, English and Japanese, and on refining themechanism for extending active edges to arrive ata spanning analyses.ReferencesJohn Bear, John Dowding, and Elizabeth Shriberg.1992.
Integrating multiple knowledge sourcesfor detection and correction of repairs in human-computer dialog.
In Proc.
of the 30 th ACL, pages56--63, Newark, DE.Johan Bos, Bj6m Gamb~ick, Christian Lieske,Yoshiki Mori, Manfred Pinkal, and KarstenWorm.
1996.
Compositional semantics in Verb-mobil.
In Proc.
of the 16 th COLING, pages 131-136, Copenhagen, Denmark.Johan Bos, Bianka Buschbeck-Wolf, MichaelDorna, and C. J. Rupp.
1998.
Managing infor-mation at linguistic interfaces.
In Proc.
of the17 th COLING/36 th ACL, Montrral, Canada.Thomas Bub, Wolfgang Wahlster, and Alex Waibel.1997.
Verbmobil: The combination of deep andshallow processing for spontaneous speech trans-lation.
In Proc.
Int.
Conf.
on Acoustics, Speechand Signal Processing (ICASSP), pages 71-74,Mfinchen, Germany.
IEEE Signal Processing So-ciety.Michael Dorna and Martin C. Emele.
1996.Semantic-based transfer.
In "Proc.
of the 16 thCOLING, pages 316-321, Copenhagen, Den-mark.Hans Kamp and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
From Discourseto Logic.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Christine Nakatani and Julia Hirschberg.
1993.
Aspeech-first model for repair detection and cor-rection.
In Proc.
of the 31 th ACL, pages 46-53,Columbus, OH.Carolyn Penstein Rosr.
1997.
Robust InteractiveDialogue Interpretation.
Ph.D. thesis, CarnegieMellon University, Pittsburgh, PA. LanguageTechnologies Institute.Wolfgang Wahlster.
1997.
Verbmobil: Erken-nung, Analyse, Transfer, Generierung und Syn-these yon Spontansprache.
Verbmobil-Report198, DFKI GmbH, Saarbriicken, June.1407
