Dialect MT: A Case Study between Cantonese and MandarinXiaoheng ZhangDept.
of Chinese &.
Bilingual Studies, The Hong Kong Polytechnic UniversityHung Hom, KowloonHong Kongctxzhang@polyu.edu.hkAbstractMachine Translation (MT) need not beconfined to inter-language activities.
In thispaper, we discuss inter-dialect MT ingeneral and Cantonese-Mandarin MT inparticular.
Mandarin and Cantonese are twomost important dialects of Chinese.
Theformer is the national lingua franca and thelatter is the most influential dialect in SouthChina, Hong Kong and overseas.
Thedifference in between is such that mutualintelligibility is impossible.
This paperpresents, from a computational point of view,a comparative study of Mandarin andCantonese at the three aspects of soundsystems, grammar rules and vocabularycontents, followed by a discussion of thedesign and implementation f a dialect MTsystem between them.IntroductionAutomatic Machine Translation (MT) betweendifferent languages, such as English, Chineseand Japanese, has been an attractive butextremely difficult research area.
Over fortyyears of MT history has seen limited practicaltranslation systems developed orcommercialized in spite of the considerabledevelopment in computer science and linguisticstudies.
High quality machine translationbetween two languages requires deepunderstanding of the intended meaning of thesource language sentences, which in turninvolves disambiguation reasoning based onintelligent searches and proper uses of a greatamount of relevant knowledge, includingcommon sense (Nirenburg, et.
al.
1992).
Thetask is so demanding that some researchers arelooking more seriously at machine-aided humantranslation as an altemative way to achieveautomatic machine translation (Martin, 1997a,1997b).Translation or interpretation is not necessarilyan inter-language activity.
In many cases, ithappens among dialects within a single language.Similarly, MT can be inter-dialect as well.
Infact, automatic translation or interpretationseems much more practical and achievable heresince inter-dialect difference is much lessserious than inter-language difference.
Inter-dialect MT' also represents a promising market,especially in China.
In the following sections wewill discuss inter-dialect MT with specialemphasis on the pair of Chinese Cantonese andChinese Mandarin.1 Dialects and Chinese DialectsDialects of a language are that language'ssystematic variations, developed when people ofa common language are separatedgeographically and socially.
Among this groupof dialects, normally one serves as the linguafranca, namely, the common language mediumfor communication among speakers of differentdialects.
Inter-dialect differences exist inpronunciation, vocabulary and syntactic rules.However, they are usually insignificant incomparison with the similarities the dialectshave.
It has been declared that dialects of onelanguage are mutually intelligible (Fromkin andRodman 1993, p. 276).Nevertheless, this is not true to the situationin China.
There are seven major Chinese dialects:the Northern Dialect (with Mandarin as itsstandard version), Cantonese, Wu, Min, Hakka,Xiang and Gan (Yuan, 1989), that for the mostpart are mutually unintelligible, and inter-dialect1 In this paper, MT refers to both computer-basedtranslation and interpretation.1460translation is often found indispensable forsuccessful communication, especially betweenCantonese, the most popular and the mostinfluential dialect in South China and overseas,and Mandarin, the lingual franca of China.2 Linguistic Consideration of DialectMTMost differences among the dialects of alanguage are found in their sound inventory andphonological systems.
Words with similarwritten forms are often pronounced ifferentlyin different dialects.
For example, the sameChinese word "~ 7;~ " (Hong Kong) ispronounced xianglgang3 2 in Mandarin, buthoenglgong2 in Cantonese.
There are alsolexical differences although dialects hare mostof their words.
Different dialects may usedifferent words to refer to the same thing.
Forexample, the word "umbrella" is ~ ~:(yu3san3) in Mandarin, and ~ (zel) inCantonese.
Differences in syntactic structure areless common but they are linguistically morecomplicated and computationally morechallenging.
For example, the positions of someadverbs may vary from dialect to dialect.
Toexpress "You go first", we haveMandarin:ni 3 xianl zou3 (1)you first goCantonese:nei5 hang4 sinl (2)you go firstComparative sentences represent another casewhere syntactic difference is likely to happen.For example the English sentence "A is tallerthan B" is expressed asMandarin:A ~\[', BA bi3 B gaol (3)2 In this paper, pronunciation of Mandarin ispresented inHanyu Pinyin Scheme (LICASS, 1996),and Cantonese in Yueyu Pinyin Scheme (LSHK,1997).
Numbers are used to denote tones of syllables.Yueyu Pinyin is based on Hanyu Pinyin.
That means,across the two pinyin schemes, words with differentpinyin symbols are normally pronounced differently.A than B tallCantonese:A ~{ ~_ BA goul gwo3 B (4)A tall more BSentences with double objects often followdifferent word orders, too.
In a Mandarinsentence with two objects, the one referring toperson(s) must be put before the other one.
Yet,many dialects allow the order to be reversed, forexample:Mandarin:wo3 xianl gel3 tal qian2I first give him moneyI will give him some money first.Cantonese:ngo3 bei2 cin4 keoi5 sinlI give money him firstDifferences in word pronunciation and wordforms can be represented in a bi-dialectdictionary.
For example, for Cantonese-Mandarin MT, we can use entries likeword(pron, \ [~,  ni3\], \[+~, nei5\]) %youword(vi,\[x-~, zou3\], \[,~, hang4\]) %goword(n,\[~, hang2\], \[,~, hang4\]) %rowword(adv, \[5~, xianl\], \ [~,  sin1\]) %firstword(n, \[~j~:, yu3san3\],\['.~,,,, zel\]) %ubbrellawhere the word entry flag "word" is followed bythree arguments: the part of speech and thecorresponding words (in Chinese characters andpinyins) in Mandarin and in Cantonese.
Englishcomments are marked with "%".Morphologically, there are some useful rulesfor word formation.
For example, in Mandarin,the prefixes "~_}" (gongl) and "\]~g" (xiong2)are for male animals, and "fl~" (mu3) and"llt~"(ci2) female animals.
But in most southernChina dialects, the suffixes "~/0h~i" and "0.~/~:~ ''are often used instead.
For examplesbulYox:MandarinCantoneseCOW:Mandarin ~=Cantonese z~=$_~And Cantonese "~"Daddy:~_}tt= (gonglniul),~__} (ngau4gungl),(mu3niu2),(ngau4naa2).is for cal l ing,  e.g.
,1461\[~-~ (Cantonese), ~-~ (Mandarin),Elder brother:1~,~: (Cantonese), ~J:~J: (Mandarin).The problem caused by syntactic difference canbe tackled with linguistic rules, for example, therules below can be used for Cantonese-MandarinMT of the previous example sentences:Rule 1: NP xianl VP <--> NP VP sinlNP first VP <--> NP VP firstRule 2:bi3 NP ADJP <--> ADJP go3 NPthan moreRule 3:gei3 (%give) Operson Othing <-->bei2 (%give) Othing OpersonInter-dialect syntactic differences largelyexists in word orders, the key task for MT is todecide what part(s) of the source sentenceshould be moved, and to where.
It seemsunlikely for words to be moved over longdistances, because dialects normally exist inspoken, short sentences.Another problem to be considered is whetherdialect MT should be direct or indirect, i.e.,should there be an intermediate language/dialect?It seems indirect MT with the lingua franca asthe intermediate representation medium ispromising.
The advantage is twofold: (a) goodfor multi-dialect MT; Co) more useful andpractical as a lingua franca is a common and themost influential dialect in the family, and maybethe only one with a complete written system.Still another problem is the forms of thesource and target dialects for the MT program.Most MT systems nowadays translate betweenwritten languages, others are trying speech-to-speech translation.
For dialects MT, translationbetween written sentences i not that admirablebecause the dialects of a language virtually sharea common written system.
On the other hand,speech to speech translation involves speechrecognition and speech generation, which is achallenging research area by itself.
It isworthwhile to take a middle way: translation atthe level of phonetic symbols.
There are at leastthree major reasons: (a) The largest differenceamong dialects exists in sound systems.
(b)Phonetic symbol translation is a prerequisite forspeech translation.
(c) Some dialect words canonly be represented in sound.
In our case,pinyins have been selected to represent bothinput and output sentences, because in Chinapinyins are the most popular tools to learndialects and to input Chinese characters tocomputers.
Chinese pinyin schemes, forMandarin and for ordinary dialects areromanized, i.e., they virtually only use Englishletters, to the convenience of computerprocessing.
Of course, pinyin-to-pinyintranslation is more difficult than translationbetween written words in Chinese blockcharacters because the former involveslinguistics analysis at all the three aspects ofsound systems, grammar ules and vocabularycontents in stead of two.3 The Problem of AmbiguitiesAmbiguity is always the most crucial and themost challenging problem for MT.
Since inter-dialect differences mostly exist in words, both inpronunciation and in characters, our discussionwill concentrate on word disambiguation forCantonese-Mandarin MT.
In the Cantonesevocabulary, there are about seven thousand toeight thousand ialect words (including idiomsand fixed phrases), i.e., those words withdifferent character forms from any Mandarinwords, or with meanings different from theMandarin words of similar forms.
These dialectwords account for about one third of the totalCantonese vocabulary.
In spoken Cantonese thefrequency of use of Cantonese dialect words isclose to 50 percent (Li, et.
al., 1995, p236).Because of historical reasons, Hong KongCantonese is linguistically more distant fromMandarin than other egions in Mainland China.One can easily spot Cantonese dialect articles inHong Kong newspapers which are totallyunintelligible to Mandarin speakers, whileMandarin articles are easily understood byCantonese speakers.
To translate a Cantonesearticle into Mandarin, the primary task is to dealwith the Cantonese dialect words, especiallythose that do not have semantically equivalentcounterparts in the target dialect.
For example,the Mandarin Jf~(ju2, orange) has a much largercoverage than the Cantonese ~e~(gwatl).
Inaddition to the Cantonese ~t~, the Mandarinalso includes the fruits Cantonese r fers to as ~I~(gaml) and ~(caang2).
On the other hand, theCantonese ~ semantically covers theMandarin ~ (go, walk) and ~ (row).Translation at the sound or pinyin level has to1462deal with another kind of ambiguity: thehomophones of a word in the source dialect maynot have their counterpart synonyms in the targetdialect pronounced as homophones as well.
Forexample, the words ~:~(banana) and ~_ .
(intersection) are both pronounced xiangljiaolin Mandarin, but in Cantonese they arepronounced hoenglziul and soenglgaaulrespectively, though their written charactersremain unchanged.To tackle these ambiguities, we employs thetechniques of hierarchical phrase analysis(Zhang and Lu, 1997) and word collocationprocessing (Sinclair, 1991), both rule-based andcorpus-based.
Briefly speaking, the hierarchicalphrase analysis method firstly tries to solve aword ambiguity in the context of the smallestphrase containing the ambiguous word(s), thenthe next layer of embedding phrase is used ifneeded, and so on.
As a result, the problem willbe solved within the minimally sufficientcontext.
To further facilitate the work, largeamount of commonly used phrases and phraseschemes are being collected into the dictionary.Further more, interaction between the users andthe MT system should be allowed for difficultdisambiguation (Martin, 1997a).4 System Design and ImplementationA rudimentary design of a Cantonese-Mandarindialect MT system has been made, as shown inFigure 1.
The system takes Cantonese Pinyinsentences as input and generates Mandarinsentences in Hanyu Pinyin and in Chinesecharacters.
The translation is roughly done inthree steps: syntax conversion, worddisambiguation and source-target wordssubstitution.
The knowledge bases includelinguistic rules, a word collocation list and a bi-dialect MT dictionary.A simplified example will make the basicideas clearer.
Suppose the example word entriesand transformational rules in Section 2 areincluded in the MT system's knowledge base.Example sentence (2) in Cantonese, i.e.,nei5 hang4 sinl~ ,~7" ~ (2)you go firstis given as input for the system to translate intoMandarin.
Because the input sentence containsthe time adverb "sianl" (first), according togrammar rules, it is syntactically different fromits counterpart in Mandarin.
According to theflowchart, the Cantonese pinyin sentence isconverted into a Mandarin structure.
Rule 1 inthe knowledge base is applied, producingnei5 sinl hang4you first goThen the dictionary is accessed.
The Cantoneseword ~(hang4) corresponds to two Mandarinwords, i.e., 7T~(vi.
go, walk) and ~T(n. row).According to Rule 1, the verb Mandarin word isselected.
And the individual Cantonese words inthe sentence are substituted with their Mandarincounterparts, a target Mandarin sentenceni 3 xianl zou3you first golike sentence (1) is then correctly produced.Input a Cantonese pinyin sentenceIMT linguistic k No~rulesC 1.
~structure.
\[Word V ' \[colocation / ~'list.
~x \[Cantonese dialect words II ,,J NN\]disambiguiting withrespect to\[~Mandarin words 1,~.._.Cantonese- l , / I  I IMandarin ~dictionary I'~.\[Substitute Cantonese words\[" \ ]w i th  Mandarin words in pinyinl and in characters.Output Mandarin sentencedata/control fl w> knowledgebase as ssmentFigure 1: A Design for Cantonese-Mandarin MTSimilarly, with transformational rule 1-3, amore complicated Cantonese sentence likegoulgwo3 wo3 ge3 yan4 bei2 cin4 keoi5 sinltall more me PART person give money him firstcan be correctly translated into Mandarin:1463bi3 wo3 gaol de ren2 xianl gei3 tal qian2than me tall PART persons first give him moneyThose who are taller than me will give him somemoney first.We are in the progress of implementing an inter-dialect MT prototype, called CPC, fortranslation between Cantonese and Putonghua(i.e., Mandarin), both Cantonese-to-Putonghuaand Putonghua-to-Cantonese.
Input and outputsentences are in pinyins or Chinese characters.The programming languages used are Prologand Java.
We are doing Cantonese-to-Putonghuafirst, based on the design.
At its current state, wehave built a Cantonese-Mandarin bi-dialectdictionary of about 3000 words and phrasesbased on some well established books (e.g.,Zeng, 1984; Mai and Tang, 1997), (Whencompleted, there will be around 10,000 wordentries) and a handful of rules.
A Cantonese-Mandarin dialect corpus is also being built.
Theprogram can process sentences of a number oftypical patterns.
The funded project has twoimmediate purposes: to facilitate languagecommunication a d to help Hong Kong studentswrite standard Mandarin Chinese.ConclusionCompared with inter-language MT, inter-dialectMT is much more manageable, bothlinguistically and technically.
Though generallyignored, the development of inter-dialect MTsystems is both rewarding and more feasible.The present paper discusses the design andimplementation f  dialect MT systems at pinyinand character levels, with special attention onthe Chinese Mandarin and Cantonese.
Whensupported by the modem technology formultimedia communication of the Intemet andthe WWW, dialect MT systems will produceeven greater benefits (Zhang and Lau, 1996).Nonetheless, the research reported in thispaper can only be regarded as an initialexploratory step into a new exciting researcharea.
There is large room for further researchand discussion, especially in worddisambiguation and syntax analysis.
And weshould also notice that the grammars of ordinarydialects are normally less well described thanthose of lingua francas.AcknowledgementsThe research is funded by Hong Kong PolytechnicUniversity, under the project account number of 0353131 A3 720.ReferencesFromkin V. and Rodman R. (1993) An Introduction toLanguage (5th edition).
Harcourt Brace JovanovichCollege Publishers, Orlando, Florida, USA., p. 276.Li X., Huang J., Shi Q., Mai Y. and Chen D. (1995)Guangzhou Fangyan Janjiu (Research in CantoneseDialecO.
Guangdong People's Press, Guangzhou,China, p. 236.LICASS (Language Institute, the Chinese Academy ofSocial Sciences) (1996) Xiandai Hanyu Cidian(Contemporary Chinese Dictionary).
CommercialPress, Beijing, China.LSHK (1997) Yueyu Pinyin Zibiao (The ChineseCharacter List with Cantonese Pinyin).
LinguisticSociety of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.Mai Y. and Tang B.
(1997) Shiyong GuangzhouhuaFenlei Cidian (A Practical Semantically-ClassifiedDictionary of Cantonese).
Guandong People's Press,Guangzhou, China.Martin K. (1997a) The proper place of men andmachines in language translation.
MachineTranslation, 1-2/12, pp.
3-23.Martin K. (1997b) It's still the proper place.
MachineTranslation, 1-2/12, pp.
35-38.Nirenburg S., Carbonell J., Tomita M. and Goodman K.(1992) Machine Translation: A Knowledge-BasedApproach.
Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Mateo,California, USA.Sinclair J.
(1991) Corpus, Concordance andCollocation.
Collins, London, UK.Yuan J.
(1989) Hanyu Fangyan Gaiyao (Introductionto Chinese Dialects).
Wenzi Gaige Press, Beijing,China.Zeng Z. F. (1984) Guangzhouhua-Putonghua Ko yuciDuiyi Shouee (A Translation Manual of Cantonese-Mandarin Spoken Words and Phrases).
JointPublishing, Hong Kong.Zhang X. and Lau C. F. (1996) Chinese inter-dialectmachine translation on the Web.
In "Collaboration viathe Virtual Orient Express: Proceedings of the Asia-Pacific World Wide Web Conference" S. Mak, F.Castro & J. Bacon-Shone, d., Hong Kong University,pp.
419--429.Zhang X. and Lu F. (1997) Intelligent Chinesepinyin-character conversion based on phrase analysis anddynamic semantic collocation.
In "LanguageEngineering", L. Chen and Q. Yuan, ed., TsinghuaUniversity Press, Beijing, China, pp.
389-395.1464
