An Underspecified Segmented Discourse Representation Theory (USDRT)Frank SchilderComputer Science DepartmentHamburg UniversityVogt-K611n-Str.
30D-22527 HamburgGermanyschilder@informatik, uni-hamburg, de1 IntroductionA theory of discourse interpretation has to deal witha set of problems including anaphora resolution andthe hierarchical ordering of discourse structure:(1) Several students organised a dinner party forPeter.
Some students wrote fancy invitationcards.
Some other students bought exotic food.But Peter didn't like it.There are two conceivable readings for (1).
Either(a) it refers to the party or (b) Peter only dislikedthe food.
Discourse grammars like Segmented Dis-course Representation Theory (SDRT) offer an ex-planation for this phenomenon.
SDRT - -  an exten-sion ofDRT (Kamp and Reyle, 1993) - -  describes acomplex propositional structure of Discourse Rep-resentation Structures (DRSs) connected via dis-course relations.
The hierarchical ordering imposedby relations like narration or elaboration can beused to make predictions about possible attachmentsites within the already processed iscourse as wellas suitable antecedents of anaphora.The next section discusses the question ofwhether the SDRT formalisation used for discoursestructure should also capture the ambiguities, asexpressed in (1), for instance, via an underspec-ified representation.
Section 3 introduces a treelogic proposed by Kallmeyer called TDG.
Follow-ing Schilder (1997), this formalism is employed forthe representation f the discourse structure.
Sec-tion 4 presents the conjoined version of SDRT andTDG.
This is a novel combination of the discoursegrammar and a tree logic indicating the hierarchicaldiscourse structure.
Finally, a USDRT formalisationof the discourse xample discussed is given.2 From DRT to SDRTOne obvious shortcoming DRT is that it lacks therhetorical information that structures the text.
Thisrhetorical information, expressed by discourse rela-tions such as narration or background, has a crucialeffect on anaphora resolution, lexical disambigua-tion, and spatial-temporal information.
SDRT ex-tends DRT in order to amend this insufficiency.Following Asher (1996) DRSs and SDRSs willbe labelled ({K1, .
.
.
,  Kn}).
Formally, an SDRS isrecursively defined as a pair of sets containing la-belled DRSs or SDRSs, and the discourse relationsholding between them.Definition 1 (SDRS) Let K1 : ~ l , .
.
.Kn  : C~nbe a labelled DRSs or SDRSs and R a set of dis-course relations.
The tuple <U, Con) is an SDRSif (a) U is a labelled DRS and Con = O or (b)U = {K1.
.
.
,  Kn} and Con is a set of SDRS con-ditions.
An SDRS condition is a discourse relationsuchas D(K1 , .
.
.
,Kn),  where D 6 R.For the basic case (i.e.
(K, 0)) K labels a DRS rep-resenting the semantic ontext of a sentence.
Adiscourse relation introduces furthermore a hierar-chical ordering indicated by a graph representation.The nodes represent the labelled SDRSs and theedges are discourse relations.
Apart from the dis-course relations, which impose a hierarchical or-dering, 'topic' relations add more structure to thisgraph.
If a sentence a is the topic of another sen-tence/3, this is formalised as a ~ /~.l This sym-bol also occurs in the graph, indicating a furtherSDRS condition.
The graph representation illus-trates the hierarchical structure of the discourse andin particular the open attachment site for newly pro-cessed sentences.
Basically the constituents on theso-called 'right frontier' of the discourse structureare assumed to be available for further attachment(Webber, 1991).Assuming a current label (i.e.
the one added af-ter processing the last clause/sentence), a notion ofI A further SDRS condition is Focus Background Pair (FBP)which is introduced by background.1188D-Subordination is defined by Asher (1996, p. 24).Generally speaking, all constituents which domi-nate the current label are open.
A further restric-tion is introduced by the term D-Freedom which ap-plies to all labels which are directly dominated bya topic, unless the label assigns the current node.Formally speaking, this can be phrased as: a labelK is D-free in an SDRS ~ iff current(~) = K or-~3K~(K ~~ K) E Con (see figure 1).
SDRT ex-K~:a ~-____~& d-freeKl1:~ Klo:~#Klol:eKlo11:( Klolo:~Figure 1: Openness and D-Freedomploits discourse relations to establish a hierachicalordering of discourse segments.
A constituent graphindicates the dependencies between the segment, es-pecially highlighting the open attachment points.How the discourse relations uch as narration orelaboration are derived is left to an axiomatic the-ory called DICE (Discourse in Commonsense En-tailment) that uses a non-montonic logic.
Taking thereader's world knowledge and Gricean-style prag-matic maxims into account, DICE provides a formaltheory of discourse attachment.
The main ingre-dients are defaults describing laws that encode theknowledge we have about he discourse relation anddiscourse processing.
2The following discourse which is similar toexample (1) exemplifies how SDRT deals withanaphora resolution within a sequence of sentences(Asher, 1996):(2) (kl) After thirty months, America is back inspace.
(k2) The shuttle Discovery roared off thepad from Cape Kennedy at 10:38 this morning.
(k3) The craft and crew performed flawlessly.
(k4) Later in the day the TDRS shuttle com-munication satellite was sucessfully deployed.
(k5) This has given a much needed boost toNASA morale.
:Formally, this is expressed by means of the ComonsenseEntailment (CE) (Asher and Morreau, 1991).Note that this in (k5) can refer back either to (a) theentire Shuttle voyage or (b) the launch of the TDRSsatellite in (k4).
It can also be shown that this cannotbe linked to the start of the shuttle described in (k2).The hierachical structure of the twofirst sentences is established by an elab-oration relation.
As a consequence, theSDRS labelled by K1 is the topic of /(2(i.e.
({K1,K2}, {elaboration(K1, K2),K1K2})).
The next sentence (k3) is a comment othe situation described in the preceding sentence.However, anew constituent K~ has to be introducedinto the discourse structure.
This SDRS labelledby K~ subsumes the two DRSs in K2 and K3.
Asa side effect, the label K2 within the discourserelation elaboration(K1,K2) is changed to thenewly introduced label K~ and a further edge isintroduced between this SDRS and K3.
It has toK1ElaborationKI~~-~~i  CommentFigure 2: The third sentence attachedbe pointed out that this modification of the entireSDRS involves an overwriting of the structurederived so far.
The SDRT update function has to bedesigned such that these changes are accordinglyincorporated.
Note furthermore that the introduc-tion of an additional edge from K~ to K3 is notassigned with a discourse relation.In order to proceed with the SDRS construction,we have to consider which constituents are availablefor further attachment.
According to the definitionof D-Freedom and D-Subordination, the SDRS la-belled by K1,//'2 and K3 are still available.
3We derive using DICE that the next sentence (k4)is connected to (k2) via narration.
The resultingconstituent graph is shown in figure 3.
A com-mon topic as demanded by Asher (1996, p. 28)does not occur in the graph representation.
Finally,only two attachment sites are left, namely K1 and/(4.
The discourse relation result can connect both3Note that without the label K~ the constituent i  K2 wouldnot be open any more, since it were dominated by the topic inK1 (cf.
definition of D-free).1189K1ElaborationK{1(2 ~ K4CommentK3Figure 3: Sentence (k4) processedSDRSs with the SDRS derived for (k5).
Conse-quently, two antecedents for the anaphora this canbe resolved and the theory predicts two conceivablederivations: One SDRS contains the SDRS labelledby//'5 attached to K1, whereas the second conceiv-able SDRS exhibits K5 connected to//'4.Summing up, the formalism includes the follow-ing shortcomings: (a) The representation f an un-derspecified discourse is not possible in SDRT.
Allreadings have to be generated.
(b) The formalismis not monotonic.
Updates may overwrite preceed-ing constituents.
As it can be seen from figure 2a new SDRS K~ substituted K2.
4 (c) The con-stituent graph contains a set of different SDRS con-' ditions (i.e.
discourse relations, ~, and FBP).
It isnot clear how these different conditions interact andit seems difficult to predict heir effect on the dis-course structure.
Note that the update on narrationrequires a common topic which connects the twoSDRSs according to the axioms stipulated withinSDRT.
However the ~ relation is not shown in theconstituent graph.I will develop further ideas introduced by under-specified semantic formalisms which have been pro-posed in recent years (e.g.
(Reyle, 1995)) in orderto provide an underspecified representation for dis-course structure.
I will employ a first order treelogic by Kallmeyer (1996) to define an underspeci-fled SDRT, in the following sections.3 Tree DescriptionsTree Description Grammars (TDGs) were inspiredby so-called quasi-trees (Vijay-Shanker, 1992).
Thegrammar formalism is described as a constraint-based TAG-like grammar by Kallmeyer (1996).
Thelogic used for TDGs is a quantifier-free first order41t may be possible that the topic relation is transitive to-gether with the d-subordination.
However, this would contra-dict with the definition of D-Freedom (i.e.
~3K'  (K' ~1.
K))logic consisting of variables for the nodes, four bi-nary relations and the logical connectives -% A, V. 5Definition 2 (TDG) A Tree Description Grammar(TDG) is a tuple G = (N,T ,  <1, <*, -.<, ~,  S), suchthat:(a) N and T are disjoint finite sets for the nonter-minal and terminal symbols.
(b) <~ is the parent relation (i.e.
immediate domi-nance) which is irreflexive, asymmetric and intran-sitive.
(c) <~* is the dominance relation which is the tran-sitive closure of ,~.
(d) -.4 is the linear precedence relation which is ir-reflexive, asymmetric and transitive.
(e) ~ is the equivalence relation which is reflexive,symmetric and transitive.
(f) S is the start description.The tree descriptions are formulae in TDGs reflect-ing the dominance relations between subtrees.
Suchformulae have to be negation-free and at least onek E K must dominate all other k' E K. In orderto combine two tree descriptions an adjunction op-eration is used which simply conjoins the two treedescriptions.
Graphically, this operation can takeplace at the dotted lines indicating the dominancerelation (i.e.
<~*).The straight line describes the par-ent relation (,~).
No adjunction can take place here.Figure 4 illustrates how the labels K~x and Kt r, ands2 and K~ 2 are set to equal respectively.KTKIal ~ sl KR1 JK'RS3Figure 4: Two tree descriptions combinedWe are now able to use this tree logic to describethe hierachical ordering within SDRT.
This extends5See Kallmeyer (1996) for a detailed escription of how asound and complete notion of syntactic consequence an be de-fined for this logic.1190the original approach, as we are also able to describeambiguous structures.4 Underspeci f ied SDRT (USDRT)Similar to proposals on underspecified semantic for-malisms, the SDRSs are labelled and dominance re-lations hold between these labels.
Note that also aprecedence r lation is used to specify the orderingbetween daughter nodes.Definition 3 (USDRS) Let S be a set of DRSs, L aset of labels, R a set of discourse relations.
Then Uis a USDRS confined to the tuple (S, L, R) where Uis a finite set consisting of the following two kindsof conditions:1. structural information(a) immediate dominance relation: K1 <~ K2, whereK1,K2 EL(b) dominance relation: K1 <3" K2, whereK1,K2 eL(c) precedence relation: K1 -< K2, whereKI ,K2 eL(d) equivalence relation: K1 .~ K2, whereKI ,K2 eL2.
content information(a) sentential: sl : drs, where Sl 6 L, drs 6 S(b) segmental: K1 : P (s l , .
.
.
,Sn) ,  whereP is an n-place discourse relation in R, andg l ,S l , .
.
.
,Sn  6 LGenerally speaking, adiscourse relation P providesthe link between DRSs or SDRSs.
Similar to thestandard SDRT account, this relation has to be de-rived by considering world knowledge as well as ad-ditional discourse knowledge, and is derived withinDICE.
I do not consider any changes of the stan-dard theory in this respect.
The structural infor-mation, however, is encoded by the tree descrip-tions as introduced in section 3.
The most gen-eral case describing two situations connected by a(not yet known) discourse relation is formalised asshown in figure 5.
6 The description formula forthis tree is K-r <~* K~I A KT1 <~ Kat  A KR1 <1KRI '  AKm <1 K~i A K~I <~* sl A K~I <~* s2.Comparing this representation with the SDRT con-stituent graph, the following similarities and differ-ences can be observed.
First of all, the question ofwhere the open attachment sites are found is easilyobservable in the structural restriction given by the6The dashed line describes the underspecification with re-spect o the precedence r lation (-<).K-r,K'I81:OrK~I : topic(sl, s2)IKin :  relation(K'al , K~I)gl82:/3Figure 5: Underspecified discourse structuretree description.
Graphically, the open nodes are in-dicated by the dotted lines.
Secondly, atopic node isintroduced, immediately dominating the discoursesegment.
No distinction between D-Subordinationand D-Freedom has to be made, because the topicis open for further attachment as well.
This is themain change to the discourse structure proposed bySchilder (1997).
This account encodes the topicinformation in an additional feature called PROM1.However, it gives no formal definition of this term.I stick therefore to the topic definition Asher gives.But instead a uniform treatment of the hierarchi-cal ordering can be given by the tree logic used.Thirdly, the discourse segment is dominated bythe discourse relation that possesses two daughternodes.
The structure is flexible enough to allow fur-ther attachment here.
No overwriting of a derivedstructure, as for the SDRT account, is necessary.If a discourse relation is derived, further con-straints are imposed on the discourse structure.
Ba-sically, two cases can be distinguished: (a) A subor-dinating structure is triggered by discourse relationslike narration or result.
Consequently, the secondsituation becomes the topic (i.e.
K~I : /3) and theprecedence r lation between K~I and K~I is intro-duced.
In addition, the open attachment site on theright frontier gets closed (i.e.
K~ 1 ~ K2).
(b) Asubordinated structure which comes with discourserelations like elaboration or background containsthe first situation as a topic (i.e.
K~I : a).
Forthis structure a precedence r lation between K~Iand K~I also holds, but instead of the right fron-tier, the left frontier is closed (i.e.
K~ 1 ~ K1).Generally speaking, the analysis proposed for (2)follows the SDRT account, especially regarding thederivation of the discourse relations.
The first twosentences are connected via elaboration.
However,the analysis differs with respect to the obtained is-course structure.
Since sentence (kl) (i.e.
the se-mantic content a) is the topic of this text segment1191IS l :OtKTRI:OtIKRI : elab( KtR3, K~3)K3~.~/.KTKRT4:EIKR4 : res(KtR4,K~4)K~I KtR4 K~4 ~ K5i .................................... IKTR3 : 6 Ss :~IKR3 :nar(g s, K?3)I84:~Figure 6: The discourse in (2) underspecified(i.e.
(kl) and (k2)), a copy of a ends up in KT1 .The resulting tree description contains two nodepairs where the dominance relation holds, indicatedby the dotted line in the graphical representation.Hence there are two possible attachment sites.
7The construction of the discourse sequence con-tinues in the same way until sentence (k5).
The am-biguity for this can be expressed as illustrated in fig-ure 6.
Sentence (k5) (i.e.
8s : ~) is connected via re-sult with either K~I : o~ (i.e.
this refers to the entirevoyage in (kl)) or KT3 (i.e.
only the launch of thesatellite is referred to by this).
Note furthermore thatthe latter reading requires that (k5) is an elabora-tion of (kl).
Thus the USDRT analysis provides anunderspecified representation f the discourse struc-ture which covers the two possible readings of (2).5 Conc lus ionI have shown how the SDRT account can be ex-tended by tree descriptions to represent the dis-course structure.
The formalism proposed has thefollowing advantages over previous approaches: auniform description of the hierarchical discoursestructure, the ability to express ambiguities withinthis structure, and the dominance relation specify-ing the open nodes for further attachment.ReferencesN.
Asher and M. Morreau.
1991.
What somegeneric sentences mean.
In Hans Kamp, edi-tor, Default Logics for Linguistic Analysis, num-7See figure 4 on page 3 which represents he first three sen-tences of this discourse.ber R.2.5.B in DYANA Deliverable, pages 5-32.Centre for Cognitive Science, Edinburgh, Scot-land.Nicholas Asher.
1996.
Mathematical treatmentsof discourse contexts.
In Paul Dekker andMartin Stokhof, editors, Proceedings of theTenth Amsterdam Colloquium, pages 21-40.ILLC/Department of Philosophy, University ofAmsterdam.Laura Kallmeyer.
1996.
Underspecification iTree Description Grammars.
Arbeitspapiere desSonderforschungsbereichs 340 81, University ofT~bingen, Tiibingen, December.Hans Kamp and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
From Discourseto Logic: Introduction to Modeltheoretic Seman-tics of Natural Language, volume 42 of Studiesin Linguistics and Philosophy.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers, Dordrecht.Uwe Reyle.
1995.
On reasoning with ambigui-ties.
In 7 th Conference of the European Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics,Dublin.Frank Schilder.
1997.
Temporal Relations in En-glish and German Narrative Discourse.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Edinburgh, Centre for Cog-nitive Science.K.
Vijay-Shanker.
1992.
Using descriptions of treesin a tree adjoining rammar.
Computational Lin-guistics, 18(4):481-517.Bonnie L. Webber.
1991.
Structure and ostensionin the interpretation of discourse deixis.
Lan-guage and Cognitive Processes, 6(2): 107-135.1192
