Using Leading Text for News Summaries: Evaluation Results andImplications for Commercial Summarization ApplicationsMark WassonLEXIS-NEXIS, a Division o f  Reed Elsevier plc9443 Springboro PikeMiamisburg, Ohio 45342 USAmark.wasson@lexis-nexis, cornAbstractLeading text extracts created to support someonline Boolean retrieval goals are evaluatedfor their acceptability as news documentsummaries.
Results are presented and dis-cussed from the perspective of commercialsummarization technology needs.1 IntroductionThe Searchable LEAD system creates a Booleanquery aid that helps some online customers limittheir queries to the leading text of news documents.Customers who limit their Boolean queries to lead-hag text usually see better precision and an increasedemphasis on documents with major references totheir topics in their retrieval results.A research team investigating a sentence extractionapproach to news summarization modified Search-able LEAD to create leading text extracts to use in acomparison between approaches.
Leading text ex-tracts had a much higher rate of acceptability assummaries than the team expected.
Because thattest was limited to 250 documents, we were notcertain how well leading text would rate as summa-ties on a larger scale, such as across the NEXIS?news database.
We also could not make any con-elusive statements about where leading text extractsroutinely fail as summaries for news documents.This paper presents the results of an investigationinto how Searchable LEAD-based leading text ex-tracts rate as summaries and where those exWactsfail.
The results upport he use of leading text asgeneral purpose summaries for news documents.2 Searchable LEAD OverviewSearchable LEAD was originally implemented toprovide LEXIS-NEXIS customers with the meansto limit Boolean queries to key parts of news docu-ments.
It is based on the premise that major entitiesand topics of news stories are usually introduced inthe leading portion of news documents.
SearchableLEAD targets the subset of news information cus-tomers who want to retrieve documents hat containmajor references to their targeted topics but notdocuments that only mention those topics in passing.These customers generally can expect higher preci-sion and lower recall when they restrict heir Boo-lean queries to the headline and leading text than ifthey were to apply their queries to the full text.Documents in our news database have several textfields including HEADLINE and BODY fields.Searchable LEAD software identifies the leadingportion of the BODY field and labels it the "LEAD"field.
The amount of the BODY field that is in-eluded in the LEAD is based on document length.Minimum thresholds for the number of words, sen-tences and paragraphs toinclude in LEADs increaseas document length increases.In an examination of more than 9,000 news docu-ments from more than 250 publications, we foundthat short documents usually begin with good topic-summarizing leading sentences, what we call thelogical lead.
Longer documents, however, moreoften begin with anecdotal information before pre-senting the logical lead.
LEAD fields must belonger for these documents in order to include thelogical lead in most instances.
Using a fixedamount of leading text regardless of documentlength would have resulted in LEADs that include1364too much text beyond the logical lead for shorterdocuments, and LEADs that miss the logical leadentirely for longer documents.Customers can limit part or all of a Boolean queryto the LEAD, as the following query shows:LEAD(CLINTON) AND BUDGETThis query will retrieve only those documents hatcontain "Clinton" in the LEAD and "budget" any-where in the document.
Customers who use LEADroutinely combine itwith the HEADLINE field.We tested 20 queries on a database that contains 20million documents from more than I0,000 Englishlanguage news publications.
Each query was ap-plied to the HEADLINE and BODY fields (abbre-viated here as I-IBODY) and to the HEADLINE andLEAD fields (I-ILEAD).
Queries were limited bydate in order to reduce the magnitude of the evalua-tion task.
In order to obtain a more complete pic-ture of recall, other queries were used to identifyrelevant documents hat the tested queries missed.The results in Table 1 show that limiting Booleanqueries to leading text can help Searchable LEAD'stargeted customers.Document Average AverageFields Precision RecallHLEAD .472 .600HBODY .208 .793Average ofF-measures.432.288Table 1.
Impact of LEAD Restrictions on Boo-lean Retrieval Quality (20-query test)Searchable LEAD document processing softwareconsists of a 500-statement PL1 program and a 23-rule sentence and paragraph boundary recognitiongrammar, and operates in a mainfiame MVS envi-ronment.
Searchable LEAD processes over 500,000characters (90 news documents) per CPU second.3 Related WorkThere is a growing body of research into approachesfor generating text summaries, including approachesbased on sentence xtraction (Kupiec et al, 1995),text generation from templates (McKeown andRadev, 1995) and machine-assisted abstraction(Tsou et al, 1992).
Brandow et al (1995) reportedon a sentence xtraction approach called the Auto-marie News Extraction System, or ANES.
ANEScombined statistical corpus analysis, signature wordselection and sentence weighting to select sentencesfor inclusion in summaries.
By varying the numberof sentences elected, ANES-generated extractscould meet argeted summary lengths.ANES was evaluated using a corpus of 250 docu-ments from newswire, magazine and newspaperpublications.
ANES was used to generate threesummaries for each document, argeting summarylengths of 60, 150 and 250 words.
For a baselinecomparison, a modified version of the SearchableLEAD software was used to create three fixedlength leading text summaries for each document,also targeting lengths of 60, 150 and 250 words.News analysts read each document and its corre-sponding summaries, and rated the summaries ontheir acceptability.
Table 2 shows the results foreach approach.
Overall, 74% of the ANES summa-ries were judged to be acceptable.
Unexpectedly,the acceptability rate for leading text summarieswas significantly higher.
Overall, 92% of the lead-ing text summaries were judged to be acceptable.Summary ANES Leading TextLength Acceptable Acceptable60 words 68% 87%150 words 76% 93%250 words 78% 96%Overall 74% 92%Table 2.
Acceptability Rates Comparison be-tween ANES and Leading TextThe results for both approaches showed a promisingstart towards the goal of creating summaries fornews documents.
However, those results also raisedquestions about leading text.
We wanted to betterunderstand the value of leading texts as general pur-pose news document summaries.4 MethodologyOur investigation had two goals: to verify on alarger scale the results that Brandow et al (1995)suggested for leading text, and to determine whetherthere are easily definable indicators of where leadingtext extracts fare poorly as general purpose newsdocument summaries.1365We used the Searchable LEAD definition of leadingtext as our summaries.
The LEAD fields vary inlength based on overall document length, which webelieve helps them capture the logical lead.
Also,LEAD fields already existed in our news documentsin support of another application, Boolean retrieval.We did not modify Searchable LEAD sottware orany LEAD fields for this investigation.The test corpus consisted of 2,727 documents frommore than 100 English language news publications.Documents were retrieved from our news databaseusing several queries.
Some queries were biasedtowards longer documents orto sources that providetranscripts.
We believed that LEADs for suchdocuments would pose more problems than wouldLEADs for typical news stories, based on past in-formal observations of LEAD fields.
Because ofthe query bias, the test corpus does not represent ournews database.
For example, only 5.5% of thedocuments in the test corpus were less than 120words long, whereas 18% of the documents in ournews database are that short.
Newspapers providealmost 60% of the documents in our news databasebut only a third of the test corpus documents.In order to investigate where LEADs might fail assummaries, we assigned attributes to each documentthat allowed us to examine various subsets of thetest corpus.
Attributes included the following:?
BODY field and LEAD field word countsSource type (newspaper, wire service, newslet-ter, magazine, transcript service)Subject matter (biographical, financial, legal,legal news, other news, reviews, scientific)Document type (general news, which includesstandard news articles, graphics, editorials,LEAD=BODY, letters/Q&A columns, and mu-sic and book reviews; lists; newsbriefs; andtelevision program transcripts)?
United States or non-United States sourceNews analysts read each document and rated itscorresponding LEAD field on its acceptability as ageneral purpose summary for that document.
Theyrated the LEADs as either acceptable or unaccept-able.
Ratings were linked to document attributes inan evaluation file that contained one record for eachdocument.
This file was analyzed to obtain de-scriptive information about the test corpus and tocompare attributes and ratings.5 ResultsOverall, 82.3% of LEADs were rated acceptable assummaries.
However, because of differences be-tween test corpus content and the content of ournews database, this acceptability rate is not an over-all indicator for our news database.Document type was the most distinguishing attrib-ute for identifying potential problem LEADs.
Forthe general news document type, 94.1% of LEADswere rated acceptable as summaries.
Acceptabilityrates were much lower for lists, newsbriefs andtranscripts, as Table 3 shows.Document Number of AcceptabilityType Documents RateGeneral News 1,951 94.1%Lists 86 12.8%Newsbriefs 191 24.6%Transcripts 499 70.3%Table 3.
Acceptability Rates for DocumentTypesThe 94.1% acceptability rate for general newsdocuments i not appreciably different from the92% average that Brandow et al (1995) reported.The results for lists and newsbriefs were not sur-prising.
Such documents seldom have logical leads.Lists primarily consist of several like items, such asproducts and their prices, or companies and corre-sponding stock quotes.
In rare instances, the BODYof a list type document includes a brief descriptionof the contents of the list that Searchable LEAD cancapture.
In most cases, however, there is nothingmeaningful for any technology toextract.Newsbrief documents usually consist of several of-ten unrelated stories combined into one document.In some newsbrief documents, however, there is anintroduction that Searchable LEAD can exploit.This was especially tree for newsbrief documentsfrom wires (67.4% acceptability on 46 documents),but rarely tree for either magazines (13.8% accept-1366ability on 109 documents) or newspapers (3.1%acceptability on 32 documents).LEADs for Wanscript ype documents fared some-what better, with source being a factor for thesealso.
LEADs for transcripts from transcript sourceswere less likely to be rated acceptable (67.8% ac-ceptability on 435 documents) than those from wires(90.0% acceptability on 40 documents) or newslet-ters (83.3% acceptability on 24 documents).Among general news documents, only LEADs forthe review sub-type had a low acceptability rate, asTable 4 shows.General News Number of AcceptabilitySub-types Documents RateNews Articles 1,806 95.5%Reviews 58 48.3%All Others 87 95.4%Table 4.
Acceptability Rates for General NewsDocument Sub-typesThe distribution of list, newsbrief and transcripttype documents was often the cause of other appar-ent problem-indicating attributes.
For example, theoverall acceptability rate for LEADs for UnitedStates sources was 80.1% on 2,141 documents,whereas the overall acceptability rate for non-UnitedStates sources was 90.4% on 586 documents.When list, newsbrief and transcript documents wereremoved, the acceptability rate for United Statessources was 94.5% on 1,391 documents, and theacceptability rate for non-United States ources was93.0% on 560 documents.When examining other general news document at-tributes, we found that only LEADs for magazineshad a somewhat lower acceptability rate (Fable 5).Source Number of AcceptabilityType Documents RateMagazines 470 88.5%Newsletters 217 98.2%Newspapers 880 94.2%Transcripts 7 100.0%Wires 377 98.1%Table 5.
Acceptability Rates for General Newsby Source TypeThe review sub-type was a factor here.
Many ofthose were from magazines.
Excluding those, theacceptability rate for magazine LEADs climbed to92.50/0, still lower than for any other source.Document length was a factor for LEAD accept-ability for the entire test corpus, but list, newsbriefand transcript type documents are typically longerthan general news documents.
Document lengthwas less of a factor when looking only at LEADsfor general news documents (Fable 6).BODY Length Number of AcceptabilityDocuments Rate0-119 words 151 97.4%120-299 words 168 98.2%300-599 words 312 95.8%600-1199 words 548 94.9%1200+ words 772 91.2%Table 6.
Acceptability Rates for General Newsby Document LengthThe length of the LEAD itself was not tied to ac-ceptability for either the entire test corpus or thegeneral news document subset.6 DiscussionThe results of this investigation show that leadingtext can provide acceptable summaries for mostgeneral news documents.
These results are consis-tent with Brandow et al (1995).
However, we alsofound that leading text is much less likely to provideacceptable summaries for news documents withcertain structures, including list, newsbrief and tran-script documents.
We identified review type docu-ments as a problem area, but these represent a smallfraction of news data.
More noteworthy was theobservation that almost one of every eight LEADsfor general news documents from magazines wererated umcc~table as summaries.Kupiec et al (1995) compared their trainabledocument summarizer results and similar amountsof leading text to manually constructed keys.
Thesentences that their summarizer extracted over-lapped 42% of the sentences in the keys, comparedto 24% for leading text.
Both percentages are muchlower than what Brandow et al (1995) reported, butdifferences between the evaluation approaches used1367is the probable reason.
Kupiec et al (1995) notedthat there may be more than one good summary fora given document, something that a key approach toevaluation does not capture.
Brandow et al (1995)found this to be the case for some documents whereall ANES-genemted and leading text summarieswere rated as acceptable.
Some differences in re-suits may also be attributed to the test data used.Kupiec et al (1995) used scientific and technicaldocuments rather than general news.Leading text extracts uch as the LEAD field areappealing for commercial use as summaries for anumber of reasons.
For general news documents,they are usually acceptable as summaries.
They areeasy and inexpensive to create.
Leading text ex-tracts also have two less obvious advantages overother approaches.
First, legal restrictions often pre-vent us from manipulating copyrighted material.Leading text extracts often preserve the existingcopyright.
Second, when leading text fails as asummary, customers can see why.
Customer un-derstanding ofhow a data feature is created is oftenkey to customer acceptance ofthat feature.There are, however, a number of reasons why weneed to consider alternatives to leading text.
First,not all documents have a logical lead that can beexploited.
In this investigation, we found that to bethe case for most list and newsbrief documents andfor many transcripts.
Beyond news data, this holdsfor case law documents, many types of financialdocuments, and others.Second, a static summary such as one based onleading text represents a "one size fits all" approachto summarization.
Readers bring their own intereststo documents.
A dynamic summary generator, per-haps using readers' queries to guide it, can helpreaders focus on those parts of a document that aremost relevant to them.Third, a hybrid approach to summary generationmay improve acceptability for news documents.Lin & Hovy (1997) describe methods for identifyingthe likely locations of topic-bearing sentences.Comparing the content of leading text extracts topredictions of topic-bearing sentences may help uspredict where leading text fails as a summary sothat we can direct more sophisticated approaches tothose documents.The commercial use of leading text summaries suchas Searchable LEAD by no means suggests thatnews summarization is a solved problem.
There area number of data types where leading text has di-minished or no value as a summary.
Where it doessucceed, an approach like Searchable LEAD mayserve as a starting point for improved leading textsummaries or as a benchmark for comparing alter-natives that are not restricted by the limits inherentin leading text approaches tosummarization.AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank colleagues Christi Wilson andDavid Schmeer for reading, rating and assigningattributes to the 2,727 test corpus documents andLEADs.
I would also like to thank Breck Baldwin,Afsar Parhizgar, David Schmeer and Paul Zhangfor their comments and suggestions.ReferencesBrandow, R., Mitze, K. and Rau, L. (1995) Auto-matic Condensation of Electronic PubBcatJonsby Sentence Selecaon.
Information Processing &Management, 31/5, pp.
675-685.Kupiec, J., Pedersen, J., and Chert, F. (1995) ATrainable Document Summarizer.
Proceedingsof the 18th Annual International ACM SIGIRConference on Research and Development in In-formation Retrieval, pp.
68-73.Lin, C.-Y., and Hovy, E. (1997) Identifying Topicsby Posiaon.
Proceedings of the Fifth Conferenceon Applied Natural Language Processing, pp.283-290.McKeown, K., and Radev, D. (1995).
GeneraangSummaries of Multiple News Articles.
Proceed-ings of the 18th Annual International ACM SlGIRConference on Research and Development in In-formation Retrieval, pp.
74-82.Tsou, B., Ho, H.-C., Lai, T., Lun, C., and Lin, H.-L. (1992) A Knowledge-based Machine-aidedSystem for Chinese Text Abstraction.
COLING-92 Proceedings, pp.
1039-1042.1368
