Embedding New Information into Referring ExpressionsHua ChengDepartment of Artificial Intelligence, University of  EdinburghE l7,  80 South Bridge, Edinburgh EH1 1HN, U.K.Email: huac@dai.ed.ac.ukAbstractThis paper focuses on generating referring expres-sions capable of serving multiple communicativegoals.
The components ofa referring expression aredivided into a referring part and a non-referring part.Two rules for the content determination and con-struction of the non-referring part are given, whichare realised in an embedding algorithm.
The signi-ficant aspect of our approach is that it intends to gen-erate the non-referring part given the restrictions im-posed by the referring part, whose realisation is, onthe other hand, affected by the non-referring part.1 Components of a Referring ExpressionThe referring expression is a very important andcomplex construction in languages.
It can servemultiple communicative goals including referring toan object, providing new information about it, andexpressing the speaker's emotional attitude towardsit (Appelt, 1985).
Although a formal model of re-ferring built within the framework of a general the-ory of speech acts and rationality is given in (Appeltand Kronfeld, 1987), and this can be used to explainhow referring acts achieve multiple goals, there is agap between the general model and the planning ofthe linguistic content of a referring expression.We divide the constituents in a referring ex-pression I into two parts based on their com-municative goals and the rules for their contentdetermination and realisation.
They are a re-ferring part, which intends to refer to an ob-ject and a non-referring part, which intends toprovide additional new information about the ob-ject.
For example, in "the actual writing style ofXuanzong, who was a well-known calligrapher",the bold faced items belong to the referring part, andthe underlined ones to the non-referring part.The division is a pragmatic one and the two partsare closely related to each other.
On the one hand,the referring part puts both syntactic and semantic~Only singular referring expressions that are primarily forreferring to physical objects are considered here.constraints on the presenting of the non-referringpart.
The syntactic onstraint concerns mainly theavailable syntactic slots around the head.
The se-mantic constraint will be introduced in section 3.On the other hand, the possibility of adding a non-referring part can make some realisations of a ref-erent preferred over others.
When generating re-ferring expressions, multiple factors should be con-sidered, which include Centering Theory (Grosz etaL, 1995) and stylistic preferences such as avoid-ing too many repetitions.
If we are to satisfy allconstraints to some extent, we may need to con-sider more than one possible realisation of a refer-ent, choosing among those that do not significantlyaffect the coherence of the text.
Then one of therealisations that is most suitable for adding new in-formation can be selected.A great amount of work has been done on gener-ating various types of referring expressions, whichaddresses the referring part, while little has ad-dressed the generation issues with respect o theother part, except hat in (Scott and de Souza, 1990),the relation between embedding and rhetorical rela-tions is discussed and several heuristics for combin-ing sentences using embedding are given.
But thisis far from enough for generating an appropriate r -ferring expression.2 System ArchitectureWe design an algorithm to generate referring ex-pressions consisting of both parts.
The referring panis generated by the referring process (Dale, 1992),while the non-referring pan is generated by a sub-type of the aggregation process called embedding,which selects suitable facts and realises them ascomponents within the structure of a referring ex-pression.
The algorithm fits into the text planner ofILEX (Oberlander et al, 1998).ILEX is an adaptive hypertext system generatingmuseum object descriptions.
In ILEX, pieces of do-main knowledge that may be worth expressing in atext are represented as nodes and links in a graphcalled the Content Potential.
Two kinds of nodes1478useful for referring expression generation are entitynodes and fact nodes 2.
A fact is represented as Pre-dicate(Argl,Arg2).
A revised version of Text Struc-ture (TS) (Meteer, 1992) is used as an intermediatelevel of representation between the text planner andthe sentence realiser, which provides yntactic on-straints to the text planner while abstracting awayfrom linguistic details.
The Text Structure uses aunified representation for structures both above andbelow sentence level, so that abstract sentence plan-ning can be done in text planning.The text generation process follows roughly foursteps: 1) The text planner selects a set of facts to beexpressed and the best rhetorical relations betweenthem 3.
2) The text planner builds the TS for eachfact in the set.
For each entity in a chosen fact,the referring process produces a list of possible real-isations that will unambiguously refer (the referringpart).
Based on the constraints imposed by the re-ferring part, the embedding process finds from theset al the unexpressed facts whose Argls are thatentity 4, and makes embedding decisions includingwhat to embed, what syntactic form the embeddedparts should take and which realisation for the entityis preferred, according to the principles in the nextsection.
This step iterates until the TS for all facts isbuilt.
3) The aggregation process goes through theTS for parataxis possibilities.
4) The appropriatelysimplified TS is sent to the surface realiser, wherethe natural anguage text is generated.We distinguish between two types of parataxis:semantic and textual.
Semantic parataxis concernsfacts that have two identical semantic onstituentsor a rhetorical relation between them, while tex-tual parataxis deals with any adjacent facts from textplanning, with no rhetorical connection between.
Instep 3), both types of parataxis are performed.3 Generating the Non-Referring PartA referring expression is primarily for referring toan entity.
So the addition of a non-referring partshould not interfere with this primary function.
Wesummarise two principles that the non-referring partmust obey, which have been realised in our embed-ding algorithm in a simple way.2Each entity node corresponds to a domain object; each factnode represents a relation between two entities and can be ex-pressed as a single sentence in language.3Details of the text planning algorithm can be found in(Oberlander tal., 1998).4The chosen fact actually forms the nucleus of Elaboration,and the facts collected by embedding form the satellites.1.
The non-referring part should not confusethe reader about the referent indicated by thereferring part.
That is, if the referring part canuniquely identify the referent, the reader should notbe confused over which object he referring expres-sion is about because of the addition of the non-referring part.
For example, in the description of acurrently focal object which is a necklace, we mightsay "The necklace is made from gold".
Supposewe also want to inform the readers that the necklacehas floral motifs.
We should use "The necklace,which has floral motifs, is made from gold" ratherthan "The necklace with floral motifs is made fromgold" because the latter may make the readers thinkthat the sentence is about a necklace which is notthe focal object.Based on both the properties of English andour analysis of real museum descriptions, we findthat additional information is provided by evaluat-ive adjectives, non-restrictive clauses, and almostall grammatical constituents in an indefinite and ademonstrative noun phrase.
These characteristicsare captured by embedding rules.
For example, thedefinition of one rule that embeds a prepositionalphrase is:(def-embed-rule:name with-phrase ;the name of this rule:priority 4:type prep-phrase ;the type of embedding: constraints((:type pred Generalized-Possession)(:type refer (:or demonstrative indefinite))):RT ((:rel-parent Adjunct)(:textual-sem With-Prep-phrase)))In the definition, priority is the order in which therule should be tried, where those rules producingsimpler syntactic forms always have higher prior-ity (Scott and de Souza, 1990); constraints is therestrictions that must be satisfied by the predicateand arguments of the embedded fact and the real-isation of the referring part.
In the above example,the required semantic ategory of the predicate isspecified, which is used to select suitable facts forembedding; RT is the resource tree for building theTS for the embedded component.Assume we have two facts Fl=style(J1, Organic)and F2=hasqual(J1,Floral-motif).
Without usingembedding, we might generate "The necklace is inthe Organic style.
It has floral motifs".
SupposeF1 and F2 are selected by the text planner and theembedding process respectively, and the referringform of the entity Jl can be demonstrative, defin-ite or pronoun.
Applying the above embedding rule,1479we would realise F2 as a post-modifier of the Arglof F1, and choose demonstrative, as "This necklacewith floral motifs is in the Organic style ".2.
The non-referring part should not reducethe readability of the text.
There are several re-strictions concerning readability:1) Complexity of a referring expression: the gen-erated expressions hould not be too complex toread.
We use a fixed number of syntactic slots torestrict the maximum amount of information thatcan be expressed.
But the actual complexity is de-cided by user models.
At present we only distin-guish between adults and children.
According toobservations in psycholinguistic research, embed-ded clauses in subjects are a major obstacle to com-prehensibility (Coleman, 1962).
So for children, thesystem generates fewer non-restrictive clauses thanfor adults and none at all in subjects.2) Compatibility with other aggregation possibil-ities: only semantic paratactic and hypotactic rela-tions between facts are considered here.
Complexembedded components like non-restrictive clausesmay interrupt he semantic onnection between aset of sentences.
For example, if we do notconsider such connections while making embed-ding decisions, we would generate a sentence like:"This jewel is made of gold, sapphire, a kind ofprecious tone and enamel which is often used toproduce a shiny surface".
It is not good comparedwith: "This jewel is made of gold, sapphire andenamel.
Sapphire is a kind of precious stone, andenamel is often used to produce a shiny surface".Adjectives would not have such negative ffectin most cases, especially when the paratactic partshave syntactically symmetrical modifications, like"The bracelet has a slightly flared band and a swell-ing midsection."
Prepositional phrases fall betweenadjectives and relative clauses in their effect.Also when one fact is to be embedded, it isnecessary to check if there are facts semantic-ally related to it, which should be embedded to-gether.
For instance, it is bad to say "The necklace,which is made from gold, is in the Organic style.
Itis also made from enamel".So before embedding a fact, our embedding al-gorithm considers the possibilities of other typesof aggregation, and only embeds if the embeddedproperties can be realised as a syntactic form otherthan a non-restrictive clause in possible paratacticnuclei, and all of the semantically related facts canbe embedded at the same time.
This means that em-bedding has a lower priority than parataxis and hy-potaxis, which reflects the relationship between theweakest rhetorical relation, Elaboration, and othertypes of rhetorical relations.4 Future  WorkThis paper discusses our ongoing work on howto embed new information into a referring expres-sion.
While the restrictions concerning the secondprinciple are currently implemented in a proceduralway, it is possible to formalise them as constraintswithin the embedding rules.An interesting problem is the relation betweenembedding and entity-based coherence, which ex-ists between spans of text in virtue of shared entities(Oberlander t al., 1998).
When a fact is embeddedinto another one, the entity inside it may become un-available for an entity-based move, and the smoothtransfer from this fact to its elaborating facts is cutoff.
The effect of embedding on local and global co-herence is to be exploited more in future work, anda comprehensive evaluation is indispensable.Acknowledgement This research is supported by aUniversity of Edinburgh Studentship.
The author appre-ciates the comments from Dr. Chris Mellish, Dr. MickO'Donnell and the four anonymous reviewers.ReferencesAppelt, D. 1985.
Planning English Referring Ex-pression.
Artificial Intelligence, 26:1-33.Appelt, D and Kronfeld, A.
1987.
A ComputationalModel of Referring.
In Proceedings of the TenthIJCAL 640-647.Coleman, E. 1962.
Improving Comprehensibil-ity by Shortening Sentences.
Journal of AppliedPsychology, 46:131-134.Dale, R. 1992.
Generating Referring Expressions:Constructing Descriptions in a Domain of Ob-jects and Processes.
MIT Press.Grosz, B, et al 1995.
Centering: A Frameworkfor Modelling the Local Coherence of Discourse.Computational Linguistics, 21:203-226.Meteer, M. 1992.
Expressibility and The Problemof Efficient Text Planning.
Pinter Publishers Ltd.Oberlander, J. et al in press.
Information Structureand Non-canonical Syntax in Descriptive Texts.Text Representation: Linguistic and Psycholin-guistic Aspects.
Benjamins Publisher.Scott, D. and de Souza, C. 1990.
Getting the Mes-sage Across in RST-based Text Generation.
Cur-rent Research in NLG, 47-73.1480
