An Estimate of Referent of Noun Phrases in Japanese SentencesMasak i  Murata  Makoto  NagaoCommunicat ions  Research  Laboratory  Kyoto  Un ivers i ty588-2, Iwaoka, Nishi-ku, Kobe, 651-2401, Japan Yoshida-Honmachi, Sakyo, Kyoto 606-01, JapanAbst rac tIn machine translation and man-machine dialogue,it is important o clarify referents of noun phrases.We present a method for determining the referentsof noun phrases in Japanese sentences by using thereferential properties, modifiers, and possessors 1 ofnoun phrases.
Since the Japanese language hasno articles, it is difficult to decide whether a nounphrase has an antecedent or not.
We had previouslyestimated the referential properties of noun phrasesthat correspond to articles by using clue words inthe sentences (Murata and Nagao 1993).
By usingthese referential properties, our system determinedthe referents of noun phrases in Japanese sentences.Furthermore we used the modifiers and possessorsof noun phrases in determining the referents of nounphrases.
As a result, on training sentences we ob-tained a precision rate of 82% and a recall rate of85% in the determination of the referents of nounphrases that have antecedents.
On test sentences,we obtained a precision rate of 79% and a recall rateof 77%.1 In t roduct ionThis paper describes the determination of the ref-erent of a noun phrase in Japanese sentences.
Inmachine translation, it is important o clarify thereferents of noun phrases.
For example, since thetwo "OJI ISAN (old man)" in the following sentenceshave the same referent, the second "OJI ISAN (oldman)" should be pronominalized in the translationinto English.OJIISAN-WA JIMEN-NI KOSHI-WO-OROSHITA.
(old man) (ground) (sit down)(The old man sat down on the ground.
)YAGATE OJIISAN-WA NEMUTTE-SHIMATTA.
(soon) (old man) (fall asleep)(He (= the old man) soon fell asleep.
)(1)When dealing with a situation like this, it is neces-sary for a machine translation system to recognizethat the two "OJI ISAN (old man)" have the samereferent.
In this paper, we propose a method thatdetermines the referents of noun phrases by using(1) the referential properties of noun phrases, (2) themodifiers in noun phrases, and (3) the possessors ofentities denoted by the noun phrases.1 The possessor of a noun phrase is defined as the entitywhich is the owner of the entity denoted by the noun phrase.For languages that have articles, like English, wecan use articles ("the", "a", and so on) to decidewhether a noun phrase has an antecedent or not.Ill contrast, for languages that have no articles, likeJapanese, it is difficult to decide whether a nounphrase has an antecedent.
We previously estimatedthe referential properties of noun phrases that cor-respond to articles for the translation of Japanesenoun phrases into English (Murata and Nagao 1993).By using these referential properties, our system de-termines the referents of noun phrases in Japanesesentences.
Noun phrases are classified by referentialproperty into generic noun phrases, definite nounphrases, and indefinite noun phrases.
When the ref-erential property of a noun phrase is a definite nounphrase, the noun phrase can refer to the entity de-noted by a noun phrase that has already appeared.When the referential property of a noun phrase is anindefinite noun phrase or a generic noun phrase, thenoun phrase cannot refer to the entity denoted by anoun phrase that has already appeared.It is insufficient to determine referents of nounphrases using only the referential property.
This isbecause even if the referential property of a nounphrase is a definite noun phrase, the noun phrasedoes not refer to the entity denoted by a noun phrasewhich has a different modifier or possessor.
There-fore, we also use the modifiers and possessors of nounphrases in determining referents of noun phrases.In connection with our approach, we would like toemphasize the following points:?
So far little work has been done on determiningthe referents of noun phrases in Japanese.?
Since the Japanese language has no articles, it isdifficult to decide whether a noun phrase has anantecedent or not.
We use referential propertiesto solve this problem.?
We determine the possessors of entities denotedby noun phrases and use them like modifiers inestimating the referents of noun phrases.
Sincethe method uses the sematic relation betweenan entity and the possessor, which is a language-independent knowledge, it can be used in anyother language.2 Referent ia l  P roper ty  o f  a NounPhraseThe following is an example of noun phraseanaphora.
"OJI ISAN (old man)" in the first sen-912tence and "OJIISAN (old man)" in the second sen-tenee refer to the same old man, and they are inanaphoric relation.OJIISAN TO OBAASAN-GA SUNDEITA.
(an old man) (and) (an old woman) (lived)(There lived an old man and an old woman.
)OJIISAN-WA YAMA-HE SHIBAKARI-NI ITTA.Indef in i te  noun phrase  An indefinite nounphrase denotes an arbitrary member of the class ofthe noun phrase.
For example, "INU(dog)" in thefollowing sentence is an indefinite noun phrase.INU-GA SANBIKI IRU.
(dog) (three) (there is)(There are three dogs.
)(5)(old man) (mountain) (to gather firewood) (go) An indefinite noun phrase cannot refer to the entity(The old man went to the mountains to gather firewood.)
denoted by a noun phrase that has already appeared.
(2)When the system analyzes the anaphoric relationof noun phrases like these, the referential proper-ties of noun phrases are important.
The referentialproperty of a noun phrase here means how the nounphrase denotes the referent.
If the system can rec-ognize that the second "OJIISAN (old man)" hasthe referential property of the definite noun phrase,indicating that the noun phrase refers to the con-textually non-ambiguous entity, it will be able tojudge that the second "OJIISAN (old man)" refersto the entity denoted by the first "OJIISAN (oldman).
The referential property plays an importantrole in clarifying the anaphoric relation.We previously classified noun phrases by referen-tial property into the following three types (Murataand Nagao 1993).gener ic  NP {NP non gener ic  NP def inite NPindef in i te NPGener ic  noun phrase  A noun phrase is classifiedas generic when it denotes all members of the classdescribed by the noun phrase or the class itself ofthe noun phrase.
For example, "INU(dog)" in thefollowing sentence is a generic noun phrase.INU-WA YAKUNI-TATSU.
(dog) (useful)(Dogs are useful.
)(3)A generic noun phrase cannot refer to the entity de-noted by an indefinite or definite noun phrase.
Twogeneric noun phrases can have the same referent.Def in i te  noun phrase  A noun phrase is classi-fied as definite when it denotes a contextually non-ambiguous member of the class of the noun phrase.For example, "INU(dog)" in the following sentenceis a definite noun phrase.INU-WA MUKOUHE ITTA.
(dog) (away) (go)(The dog went away.
)(4)A definite noun phrase can refer to the entity de-noted by a noun phrase that has already appeared.3 How to  Determine  the  Referent  o fa Noun PhraseTo determine referents of noun phrases, we made thefollowing three constraints.1.
Referential property constraint2.
Modifier constraint3.
Possessor constraintWhen two noun phrases which have the same headnoun satisfy these three constraints, the systemjudges that the two noun phrases have the same ref-erent.3.1 Referent ia l  P roper ty  Const ra in tFirst, our system estimates the referential propertyof a noun phrase by using the method describedin one of our previous papers (Murata and Nagao1993).
The method estimates a referential propertyusing surface expressions in the sentences.
For ex-ample, since the second "OJIISAN (old man)" inthe following sentences i accompanied by a particle"WA (topic)" and the predicate is in the past tense,it is estimated to be a definite noun phrase.OJIISAN-WA JIMEN-NI KOSHI-WO-OROSHITA.
(old man) (ground) (sit down)(The old man sat down on the ground.
)YAGATE OJIISAN-WA NEMUTTE-SHIMAIMATTA.
(soon) (old man) (fall asleep)(He soon fell asleep.
)(6)Next, our system determines the referent of anoun phrase by using its estimated referential prop-erty.
When a noun phrase is estimated to be a def-inite noun phrase, our system judges that the nounphrase refers to the entity denoted by a previousnoun phrase which has the same head noun.
Forexample, the second "OJIISAN" in the above sen-tences is estimated to be a definite noun phrase, andour system judges that it refers to the entity denotedby the first "OJIISAN".When a noun phrase is not estimated to be a deft-nite noun phrase, it usually does not refer to the en-tity denoted by a noun phrase that has already been913mentioned.
Our method, however, might fail to es-timate the referential property, so the noun phrasemight refer to the entity denoted by a noun phrasethat has already been mentioned.
Therefore, whena noun phrase is not estimated to be a definite nounphrase, our system gets a possible referent of thenoun phrase and determines whether or not the nounphrase refers to it by using the following three kindsof information.?
the plausibility(P) of the estimated referentialproperty that is a definite noun phraseWhen our system estimates a referential prop-erty, it outputs the score of each category (Mu-rata and Nagao 1993).
The value of the plausi-bility (P) is given by the score.the weight (W) of the salience of a possiblereferentThe weight (W) of the salience is given by theparticles such as "WA (topic)" and "GA (sub-ject)".
The entity denoted by a noun phrasewhich has a high salience, is easy to be referredby a noun phrase.the distance (D) between the estimated nounphrase and a possible referentThe distance (D) is the number of noun phrasesbetween the estimated noun phrase and a pos-sible referent.When the value given by these three kinds of infor-mation is higher than a given threshold, our systemjudges that the noun phrase refers to the possiblereferent.
Otherwise, it judges that the noun phrasedoes not refer to the possible referent and is an in-definite noun phrase or a generic noun phrase.3.2 Mod i f ie r  Const ra in tIt is insufficient to determine referents of nounphrases by using only the referential property.When two noun phrases have different modi-tiers, they usually do not have the same referent.For example, "MIGI(right)-NO HOO(cheek)" and"HIDARI(left)-NO HOO(cheek)" in the followingsentences do not have the same referent.KONO OJIISAN-NO KOBU-WA MIGI-NO HOO-NI ATTA.
(this) (old man) (lump) (right) (cheek) (be on)(This old man's lump was on his right cheek.
)TENGU-WA, KOBU-WO HIDARI-NO HOO-NI TSUKETA.
(tengu) ~ (lump) (left) (cheek) (put on)(The "tengu" put a lump on his left cheek)(7)Therefore, we made the following constraint: Anoun phrase that has a modifier cannot refer to the2A tengu is a kind of monster.entity denoted by a noun phrase that does not havethe same modifier.
A noun phrase that does nothave a modifier can refer to the entity denoted by anoun phrase that has any modifier.The constraint is incomplete, and is not truly ap-plicable to all cases.
There are some exceptionswhere a noun can refer to the entity of a noun thathas a different modifier.
But we use the constraintbecause we can get a higher precision than if we didnot use it.3.3 Possessor  Const ra in tWhen a noun phrase has a semantic marker PAR (apart of a body), 3 our system tries to estimate thepossessor of the entity denoted by the noun phrase.We suppose that the possessor of a noun phrase isthe subject or the noun phrase's nearest opic thathas a semantic mark,er HUM (human) or a seman-tic marker AN I (animal).
For example, we examinetwo instances of "HOO (cheek)" in the following sen-tences, which have a semantic marker PAR,OJIISAN-NIWA \[OJIISAN-NO\] 4 HIDARI-NO(old man) (old man's) (left)HOO-NI KOBU-GA ATTA.
(cheek) (lump) (be on)(This old man had a lump on his left cheek.
)SORE-WA KOBUSHI-HODO-NO KOBU-DATTA.
(it) (person's fist) (lump)(It is about the size of a person's fist.
)OJIISAN-GA \[OJIISAN-NO\] HOO-WO(old man (subject)) (old man's) (cheek)HUKURAMASETE IRUYOUNI-MIETA.
(puff) (look as if)(He looked as if he had puffed out his cheek.
)The possessor of the first "HOO (cheek)" is deter-mined to be "OJI ISAN (old man)" because "OJI-ISAN (old man)", which has a semantic markerHUM (human), is followed by a particle "NIWA(topic)" and is the topic of the sentence.
The posses-sor of the second "HOO (cheek)" is also determinedto be "OJI ISAN (old man)" because "OJI ISAN (oldman)" is the subject of the sentence.We made the following constraint, which is simi-lar to the modifier constraint, by using possessors.When the possessor of a noun phrase is estimated,the noun phrase cannot refer to the entity denotedby a noun phrase that does not have the same pos-sessor.
When the possessor of a noun phrase is notestimated, the noun phrase can refer to the entitydenoted by a noun phrase that has any possessor.3In this paper, we use the Noun Semantic Marker Dictio-naxy (Watanabe t a1.1992).4 The words in brackets \[\] are omitted in the sentences.914For example, since the two instances of "HOO(cheek)" in the above sentences have the same pos-sessor "OJI ISAN (old man)", our system correctlyjudges that they have the same referent.4 Anaphora Resolution System4.1 P rocedureBefore referents are determined, sentences are trans-formed into a case structure by the case structureanalyzer (Kurohashi and Nagao 1994).Referents of noun phrases are determined by us-ing heuristic rules which are made from informationsuch as the three constraints mentioned in Section 3.Using these rules, our system takes possible referentsand gives them points.
It judges that the candidatehaving the maximum total score is the referent.
Thisis because a number of types of information are com-bined in anaphora resolution.
VCe can specify whichrule takes priority by using points.The heuristic rules are given in the following form.Condition :=~ { Proposal Proposal .. }Proposal := ( Possible-Referent Point )Here, Condition consists of surface expressions, e-mantic constraints and referential properties.
InPossible-Referent, a possible referent, "Indefinite","Generic", or other things are written.
"Indefinite"means that the noun phase is an indefinite nounphrase, and it does not refer to the entity denoted bya previous noun phrase.
Point means the plausibilityvalue of the possible referent.4.2 Heur i s t i c  Ru le  for Es t imat ing  ReferentsWe made 8 heuristic rules for the resolution of nounphrase anaphora.
Some of them are given below.R1 When a noun phrase is modified by the words"SOREZORE-NO (each)" and "ONOONO-NO(each)",{(Indefinite, 25)}R2 When a noun phrase is estimated to be a defi-nite noun phrase, and satisfies the modifier andpossessor constraints, and the same noun phraseX has already appeared,{(The noun phrase X, 30)}R3 When a noun phrase is estimated to be a genericnoun phrase,{(Generic, 10)}R4 When a noun phrase is estimated to  be an in-definite noun phrase,{(Indefinite, 10)}R5 When a noun phrase X is not estimated to be adefinite noun phrase,{ (A noun phrase X which satisfies the modifierand possessor constraints, P + W - D + 4)}The values P, W, D are as defined in Section3.1.5 Exper iment  and  D iscuss ion5.1 Exper imentBefore determining the referents of noun phrases,sentences were at first transformed into a case struc-ture by the case structure analyzer (Kurohashi andNagao 1994).
Tile errors made by the case analyzerwere corrected by hand.
Table 1 shows the resultsof determining the referents of noun phrases.To confirm that the three constraints (referentialproperty, modifier, and possessor) are effective, weexperimented under several different conditions andcompared them.
The results are shown in Table 2.Precision is the fraction of noun phrases which werejudged to have antecedents.
Recall is the fraction ofnoun phrases which have antecedents.In these experiments we used training sentencesand test sentences.
The training sentences were usedto make the heuristic rules in Section 4.2 by hand.The test sentences were used to confirm the effec-tiveness of these rules.In Table 2, Method 1 is the method mentioned inSection 3 which uses all three constraints.
Method 2is the case in which a noun phrase can refer to theentity denoted by a noun phrase, only when the esti-mated referential property is a definite noun phrase,where the modifier and possessor constraints areused.
Method 3 does not use a referential prop-erty.
It only uses information such as distance, topic-focus, modifier, and possessor.
Method 4 does notuse the modifier and possessor constraints.The table shows many results.
In Method 1, boththe recall and the precision were relatively high incomparison with the other methods.
This indicatesthat the referential property was used properly in themethod that is described in this paper.
Method 1was higher than Method 3 in both recall and pre-cision.
This indicates that the information of refer-ential property is necessary.
In Method 2, the re-call was low because there were many noun phrasesthat were definite but were estimated to be indefiniteor generic, and the system estimated that the nounphrases cannot refer to noun phrases.
In Method 4,the precision was low.
Since the modifier and pos-sessor constraints were not used, and there weremany pairs of two noun phrases that did not co-refer, such as "HIDARI(left)-NO HOO(cheek)" and"MIGI(right)-NO HOO(cheek)", these pairs were in-correctly interpreted to be co-references.
This indi-cates that it is necessary to use the modifier andpossessor constraints.5.2 Examples  of  E r rorsWe found that it was necessary to use modifiers andpossessors in the experiments.
But there are somecases when the referent was determined incorrectlybecause the possessor of a noun was estimated in-correctly.915Table 1: ResultsPrecision RecallTraining sentences 82% (130/159) 85% (130/153)Test sentences 79% (89/113) 77?/0 (89/115)Training sentences {example sentences (43 sentences), a folk tale "KOBUTORI JIISAN" (Nakao 1985) (93sentences), an essay in "TENSEIJINGO" (26 sentences), an editorial (26 sentences), an article in "Scien-tific American (in Japanese)"(16 sentences)}Test sentences {a fork tale "TSURU NO ONGAESHI" (Nakao 1985) (91 sentences), two essays in "TEN-SEIJINGO" (50 sentences), an editorial (30 sentences), "Scientific American(in Japanese)" (13 sentences)}Table 2: ComparisonMethod 1 Method 3Training sentencesTest sentencesPrecisionRecallPrecisionRecall82%(130/159)85%(130/153)79% (89/113)77% (89/115)Method 292%(117/127)76%(117/153)92% ( 78/ 85)68% (78/115)72%(123/170)80%(123/153)69% (79/114)69% (79/115)Method 465%(138/213)90%(138/153)58% (92/159)80% (92/115)Method 1 : The method used in this workMethod 2 : Only when it is estimated to be definite can it refer to the entity denoted by a noun phraseMethod 3 : No use of referential propertyMethod 4 : No use of modifier constraint and possessor constraintSometimes a noun can refer to the entity denotedby a noun that has a different modifier.
In suchcases, the system made an incorrect judgment.OJIISAN-WA CHIKAKU-NO OOKINA SUGI-NO(old man) (near) (huge) (cedar)KI-NO NEMOTO-NI ARU ANA-DE(tree) (base) (be at) (hole)AMAYADORI-WO SURU-KOTO-NI-SHITA.
(take shelter from the rain) (decide to do)(So, he decided to take shelter from the rain in a holewhich is at the base of a huge cedar tree nearby.
)(an omission of the middle part)TSUGI-NOHI, KONO OJIISAN-WA YAMA-HE ITTE,(next day) (this) (old man) (mountain) (go to)(The next day, this man went to the mountain, )SUGI-NO KI-NO NEMOTO-NO ANA-WO MITSUKETA.
(cedar) (tree) (at base) (hole) (found)(and found the hole at the base of the cedar tree.
)Tile two instances of "ANA (hole)" in these sen-tences refer to the same entity.
But our systemjudged that they do not refer to it because tlae mod-ifiers of the two instances of "ANA (hole)" are dif-ferent.
In order to correctly analyze this case, it isnecessary to decide whether the two different expres-sions are equal in meaning.6 SummaryThis paper describes a method for tile determinationof referents of noun phrases by using their referen-tial properties, modifiers, and possessors.
Using thismethod on training sentences, we obtained a preci-sion rate of 82% and a recall rate of 85% in the de-termination of referents of noun phrases that haveantecedents.
On test sentences, we obtained a pre-cision rate of 79% and a recall rate of 77%.
Thisconfirmed that the use of tile referential properties,modifiers, and possessors ofnoun phrases is effective.Re ferencesSadao Kurohashi, Makoto Nagao.
1994.
A Method ofCase Structure Analysis for Japanese Sentences basedon Examples in Case Frame Dictionary.
the Insti-tute of Electronics, Information and CommunicationEnginners Transactions on Information and SystemsE77-D(2), pages 227-239.Masaki Murata, Makoto Nagao.
1993.
Determination ofreferential property and number of nouns in Japanesesentences for machine translation i to English.
In Pro-ceedings of the 5th TMI, pages 218-225, Kyoto, Japan,July.Kiyoaki Nakao.
1985.
The Old Man with a Wen.
EiyakuNihon Mukashibanashi Series, Vol.
7, Nihon Eigo Ky-ouiku Kyoukai (in Japanese).Yasuhiko Watanabe, Sadao Kurohashi, Makoto Nagao.1992.
Construction of semantic dictionary by IPALdictionary and a thesaurus, (in Japanese).
In Proceed-ings of the -~5th Convention of IPSJ, pages 213-214,Tokushima, Japan, July.916
