Investigating regular sense extensions based on intersective LevinclassesHoa Trang  Dang,  Kar in  K ipper ,  Mar tha  Pa lmer ,  Joseph  Rosenzwe igDepartment of Computer  and Information Sciencesand the Institute for Research in Cognitive ScienceUniversity of Pennsylvania400A, 3401 Walnut Street/6228Philadelphia, PA 19104, USAhtd/k ipper/mpalmer/ josephr@cis .upenn.eduAbst rac tIn this paper we specifically address questions ofpolysemy with respect o verbs, and how regularextensions of meaning can be achieved throughthe adjunction of particular syntactic phrases.We see verb classes as the key to making gen-eralizations about regular extensions of mean-ing.
Current approaches to English classifica-tion, Levin classes and WordNet, have limita-tions in their applicability that impede theirutility as general classification schemes.
Wepresent a refinement of Levin classes, intersec-tive sets, which are a more fine-grained clas-sification and have more coherent sets of syn-tactic frames and associated semantic ompo-nents.
We have preliminary indications thatthe membership of our intersective sets will bemore compatible with WordNet than the orig-inal Levin classes.
We also have begun to ex-amine related classes in Portuguese, and findthat these verbs demonstrate similarly coherentsyntactic and semantic properties.1 In t roduct ionThe difficulty of achieving adequate hand-crafted semantic representations has limited thefield of natural anguage processing to applica-tions that can be contained within well-definedsubdomains.
The only escape from this lim-itation will be through the use of automatedor semi-automated methods of lexical acquisi-tion.
However, the field has yet to develop aclear consensus on guidelines for a computa-tional lexicon that could provide a springboardfor such methods, although attempts are beingmade (Pustejovsky, 1991), (Copestake and San-filippo, 1993), (Lowe et al, 1997), (Dorr, 1997).The authors would like to acknowledge the sup-port of DARPA grant N66001-94C-6043, ARO grantDAAH04-94G-0426, and CAPES grant 0914/95-2.One of the most controversial reas has to dowith polysemy.
What constitutes a clear sepa-ration into senses for any one verb, and how canthese senses be computationally characterizedand distinguished?
The answer to this questionis the key to breaking the bottleneck of semanticrepresentation that is currently the single great-est limitation on the general application of nat-ural language processing techniques.In this paper we specifically address questionsof polysemy with respect to verbs, and howregular extensions of meaning can be achievedthrough the adjunction of particular syntacticphrases.
We base these regular extensions ona fine-grained variation on Levin classes, inter-sective Levin classes, as a source of semanticcomponents associated with specific adjuncts.We also examine similar classes in Portuguese,and the predictive powers of alternations in thislanguage with respect to the same semanticcomponents.
The difficulty of determining asuitable lexical representation becomes multi-plied when more than one language is involvedand attempts are made to map between them.Preliminary investigations have indicated thata straightforward translation of Levin classesinto other languages is not feasible (Jones etal., 1994), (Nomura et al, 1994), (Saint-Dizier,1996).
However, we have found interesting par-allels in how Portuguese and English treat reg-ular sense extensions.2 C lass i fy ing  verbsTwo current approaches to English verb classi-fications are WordNet (Miller et al, 1990) andLevin classes (Levin, 1993).
WordNet is an on-line lexical database of English that currentlycontains approximately 120,000 sets of noun,verb, adjective, and adverb synonyms, each rep-resenting a lexicalized concept.
A synset (syn-293onym set) contains, besides all the word formsthat can refer to a given concept, a definitionalgloss and - in most cases - an example sentence.Words and synsets are interrelated by meansof lexical and semantic-conceptual links, respec-tively.
Antonymy or semantic opposition linksindividual words, while the super-/subordinaterelation links entire synsets.
WordNet was de-signed principally as a semantic network, andcontains little syntactic information.Levin verb classes are based on the ability ofa verb to occur or not occur in pairs of syntac-tic frames that are in some sense meaning pre-serving (diathesis alternations) (Levin, 1993).The distribution of syntactic frames in which averb can appear determines its class member-ship.
The fundamental assumption is that thesyntactic frames are a direct reflection of the un-derlying semantics.
Levin classes are supposedto provide specific sets of syntactic frames thatare associated with the individual classes.The sets of syntactic frames associated witha particular Levin class are not intended to bearbitrary, and they are supposed to reflect un-derlying semantic omponents that constrain al-lowable arguments.
For example, break verbsand cut verbs are similar in that they can allparticipate in the transitive and in the mid-dle construction, John broke the window, Glassbreaks easily, John cut the bread, This loaf cutseasily.
However, only break verbs can also occurin the simple intransitive, The window broke,*The bread cut.
In addition, cut verbs can oc-cur in the conative, John valiantly cut/hackedat the frozen loaf, but his knife was too dull tomake a dent in it, whereas break verbs cannot,*John broke at the window.
The explanationgiven is that cut describes a series of actions di-rected at achieving the goal of separating someobject into pieces.
It is possible for these ac-tions to be performed without the end resultbeing achieved, but where the cutting mannercan still be recognized, i.e., John cut at the loaf.Where break is concerned, the only thing speci-fied is the resulting change of state where theobject becomes separated into pieces.
If theresult is not achieved, there are no attemptedbreaking actions that can still be recognized.2.1 Ambiguit ies in Levin classesIt is not clear how much WordNet synsetsshould be expected to overlap with Levinclasses, and preliminary indications are thatthere is a wide discrepancy (Dorr and Jones,1996), (Jones and Onyshkevych, 1997), (Doff,1997).
However, it would be useful for theWordNet senses to have access to the detailedsyntactic information that the Levin classescontain, and it would be equally useful to havemore guidance as to when membership in aLevin class does in fact indicate shared seman-tic components.
Of course, some Levin classes,such as braid (bob, braid, brush, clip, coldcream,comb, condition, crimp, crop, curl, etc.)
areclearly not intended to be synonymous, whichat least partly explains the lack of overlap be-tween Levin and WordNet.The association of sets of syntactic frameswith individual verbs in each class is not asstraightforward as one might suppose.
For in-stance, carry verbs are described as not takingthe conative, *The mother carried at the baby,and yet many of the verbs in the carry class(push, pull, tug, shove, kick) are also listed inthe push/pull class, which does take the cona-tive.
This listing of a verb in more than oneclass (many verbs are in three or even fourclasses) is left open to interpretation in Levin.Does it indicate that more than one sense ofthe verb is involved, or is one sense primary,and the alternations for that class should takeprecedence over the alternations for the otherclasses in which the verb is listed?
The groundsfor deciding that a verb belongs in a particularclass because of the alternations that it does nottake are elusive at best.3 In tersect ive  Lev in  c lassesWe augmented the existing database of Levinsemantic classes with a set of intersectiveclasses, which were created by grouping to-gether subsets of existing classes with over-lapping members.
All subsets were includedwhich shared a minimum of three members.
Ifonly one or two verbs were shared between twoclasses, we assumed this might be due to ho-mophony, an idiosyncrasy involving individualverbs rather than a systematic relationship in-volving coherent sets of verbs.
This filter al-lowed us to reject the potential intersective classthat would have resulted from combining the re-move verbs with the scribble verbs, for example.The sole member of this intersection is the verb294draw.
On the other hand, the scribble verbsdo form an intersective class with the perfor-mance verbs, since paint and write are also inboth classes, in addition to draw.
The algorithmwe used is given in Figure 1.1.
Enumerate all sets S = {C l , .
.
.
, cn )  of se-mantic classes uch that Icl ?3... f3 cnl _> e,where e is a relevance cut-off.2.
For each such S = {cl,... ,c~}, define anintersective class Is such that a verb v EIs iff v E cl f3 ... f3 cn, and there is noS' = {c~l,...,c~) such that S C S' andv e c~ f3... f3 c' m (subset criterion).Figure h Algorithm for identifying relevantsemantic-class intersectionsWe then reclassified the verbs in the databaseas follows.
A verb was assigned membership nan intersective class if it was listed in each ofthe existing classes that were combined to formthe new intersective class.
Simultaneously, theverb was removed from the membership lists ofthose existing classes.3.1 Using intersective Levin classes toisolate semant ic  omponentsSome of the large Levin classes comprise verbsthat exhibit a wide range of possible semanticcomponents, and could be divided into smallersubclasses.
The split verbs (cut, draw, kick,knock, push, rip, roll, shove, slip, split, etc.
)do not obviously form a homogeneous seman-tic class.
Instead, in their use as split verbs,each verb manifests an extended sense that canbe paraphrased as "separate by V-ing," where"V" is the basic meaning of that verb (Levin,1993).
Many of the verbs (e.g., draw, pull, push,shove, tug, yank) that do not have an inherentsemantic omponent of "separating" belong tothis class because of the component of .force intheir meaning.
They are interpretable asverbsof splitting or separating only in particular syn-tactic frames (I pulled the twig and the branchapart, I pulled the twig off (of) the branch, butnot *I pulled the twig and the branch).
The ad-junction of the apart adverb adds a change ofstate semantic omponent with respect o theobject which is not present otherwise.
Thesefringe split verbs appear in several other inter-sective classes that highlight he .force aspect oftheir meaning.
Figure 2 depicts the intersectionof split, carry and push/pull.
"Split" VerbsFigure 2: Intersective class formed from Levincarry, push/pull and split verbs - verbs in 0 arenot listed by Levin in all the intersecting classesbut participate in all the alternationsThe intersection between the push/pull verbsof exerting force, the carry verbs and the splitverbs illustrates how the force semantic ompo-nent of a verb can also be used to extend itsmeaning so that one can infer a causation ofaccompanied motion.
Depending on the par-ticular syntactic frame in which they appear,members of this intersective class (pull, push,shove, tug, kick, draw, yank) * can be used toexemplify any one (or more) of the the compo-nent Levin classes.1.
Nora pushed the package to Pamela.
(carry verb implies causation of accompa-nied motion, no separation)2.
Nora pushed at/against the package.?
Although kick is not listed as a verb of exerting force,it displays all the alternations that define this class.
Sim-ilarly, draw and yank can be viewed as carry verbs al-though they are not listed as such.
The list of membersfor each Levin verb class is not always complete, so tocheck if a particular verb belongs to a class it is better tocheck that the verb exhibits all the alternations that de-fine the class.
Since intersective classes were built usingmembership lists rather than the set of defining alterna-tions, they were similarly incomplete.
This is an obviousshortcoming of the current implementation f intersec-tive classes, and might affect he choice of 3 as a relevancecut-off in later implementations.295(verb of exerting force, no separation orcausation of accompanied motion implied)3.
Nora pushed the branches apart.
(split verb implies separation, no causationof accompanied motion)4.
Nora pushed the package.
(verb of exerting force; no separation im-plied, but causation of accompanied motionpossible)5.
*Nora pushed at the package to Pamela.Although the Levin classes that make up anintersective class may have conflicting alterna-tions (e.g., verbs of exerting force can take theconative alternation, while carry verbs cannot),this does not invalidate the semantic regularityof the intersective class.
As a verb of exertingforce, push can appear in the conative alterna-tion, which emphasizes its force semantic om-ponent and ability to express an "attempted"action where any result that might be associ-ated with the verb (e.g., motion) is not nec-essarily achieved; as a carry verb (used with agoal or directional phrase), push cannot ake theconative alternation, which would conflict withthe core meaning of the carry verb class (i.e.,causation of motion).
The critical point is that,while the verb's meaning can be extended toeither "attempted" action or directed motion,these two extensions cannot co-occur - they aremutually exclusive.
However the simultaneouspotential of mutually exclusive xtensions i nota problem.
It is exactly those verbs that aretriple-listed in the split/push/carry intersectiveclass (which have force exertion as a semanticcomponent) that can take the conative.
Thecarry verbs that are not in the intersective class(carry, drag, haul, heft, hoist, lug, tote, tow)aremore "pure" examples of the carry class andalways imply the achievement of causation ofmotion.
Thus they cannot ake the conative al-ternation.3.2 Compar i sons  to WordNetEven though the Levin verb classes are definedby their syntactic behavior, many reflect seman-tic distinctions made by WordNet, a classifica-tion hierarchy defined in terms of purely se-mantic word relations (synonyms, hypernyms,etc.).
When examining in detail the intersec-tive classes just described, which emphasize notonly the individual classes, but also their rela-tion to other classes, we see a rich semantic lat-tice much like WordNet.
This is exemplified bythe Levin cut verbs and the intersective classformed by the cut verbs and split verbs.
Theoriginal intersective class (cut, hack, hew, saw)exhibits alternations of both parent classes, andhas been augmented with chip, clip, slash, snipsince these cut verbs also display the syntacticproperties of split verbs.WordNet distinguishes two subclasses of cut,differentiated by the type of result:1.
Manner of cutting that results in separa-tion into pieces (chip, clip, cut, hack, hew,saw, slash, snip), having cut, separate withan instrument as an immediate hypernym.2.
Manner of cutting that doesn't separatecompletely (scrape, scratch), having cutinto, incise as an immediate hypernym,which in turn has cut, separate with an in-strument as an immediate hypernym.This distinction appears in the second-orderLevin classes as membership vs. nonmember-ship in the intersective class with split.
Levinverb classes are based on an underlying lat-tice of partial semantic descriptions, which aremanifested indirectly in diathesis alternations.Whereas high level semantic relations (syn-onym, hypernym) are represented irectly inWordNet, they can sometimes be inferred fromthe intersection between Levin verb classes, aswith the cut/split class.However, other intersective classes, such asthe split/push/carry class, are no more con-sistent with WordNet than the original Levinclasses.
The most specific hypernym commonto all the verbs in this intersective class is move,displace, which is also a hypernym for othercarry verbs not in the intersection.
In addition,only one verb (pull) has a WordNet sense cor-responding to the change of state - separationsemantic omponent associated with the splitclass.
The fact that the split sense for theseverbs does not appear explicitly in WordNetis not surprising since it is only an extendedsense of the verbs, and separation is inferredonly when the verb occurs with an appropriateadjunct, such as apart.
However, apart can alsobe used with other classes of verbs, includingmany verbs of motion.
To explicitly list separa-296tion as a possible sense for all these verbs wouldbe extravagant when this sense can be gener-ated from the combination of the adjunct withthe force (potential cause of change of physicalstate) or motion (itself a special kind of changeof state, i.e., of position) semantic omponent ofthe verb.
WordNet does not currently providea consistent reatment of regular sense exten-sion (some are listed as separate senses, othersare not mentioned at all).
It would be straight-forward to augment it with pointers indicatingwhich senses are basic to a class of verbs andwhich can be generated automatically, and in-clude corresponding syntactic information.3.3 Sense extens ion  for manner  ofmot ionFigure 3 shows intersective classes involving twoclasses of verbs of manner of motion (run androll verbs) and a class of verbs of existence (me-ander verbs).
Roll and run verbs have seman-tic components describing a manner of motionthat typically, though not necessarily, involveschange of location.
In the absence of a goal orpath adjunct they do not specify any directionof motion, and in some cases (e.g., float, bounce)require the adjunct o explicitly specify any dis-placement at all.
The two classes differ in thatroll verbs relate to manners of motion charac-teristic of inanimate ntities, while run verbsdescribe manners in which animate ntities canmove.
Some manner of motion verbs allow atransitive alternation i  addition to the basic in-transitive.
When a roll verb occurs in the tran-sitive (Bill moved the box across the room), thesubject physically causes the object to move,whereas the subject of a transitive run verbmerely induces the object to move (the coachran the athlete around the track).
Some verbscan be used to describe motion of both animateand inanimate objects, and thus appear in bothroll and run verb classes.
The slide class parti-tions this roll/run intersection into verbs thatcan take the transitive alternation and verbsthat cannot (drift and glide cannot be causative,because they are not typically externally con-trollable).
Verbs in the slide/roll/run intersec-tion are also allowed to appear in the dativealternation (Carla slid the book to Dale, Carlaslid Dale the book), in which the sense of changeof location is extended to change of possession.When used intransitively with a path prepo-sitional phrase, some of the manner of motionverbs can take on a sense of pseudo-motionalexistence, in which the subject does not actu-ally move, but has a shape that could describea path for the verb (e.g., The stream twiststhrough the valley).
These verbs are listed inthe intersective classes with meander verbs ofexistence.
"Slide" VerbsR n Verbs?
"Meander Verbs"Figure 3: Intersections between roll and runverbs of motion and meander verbs of existence4 Cross - l ingu is t i c  verb  c lassesThe Portuguese verbs we examined behavedmuch more similarly to their English counter-parts than we expected.
Many of the verbsparticipate in alternations that are direct trans-lations of the English alternations.
However,there are some interesting differences in whichsense extensions are allowed.4.1 Simi lar  sense extens ionsWe have made a preliminary study of the Por-tuguese translation of the carry verb class.
As inEnglish, these verbs seem to take different alter-nations, and the ability of each to participate inan alternation is related to its semantic ontent.Table i shows how these Portuguese verbs natu-rally cluster into two different subclasses, basedon their ability to take the conative and apartalternations as well as path prepositions.
Thesesubclasses correspond very well to the Englishsubclasses created by the intersective class.The conative alternation in Portuguese ismainly contra (against), and the apart alterna-tion is mainly separando (separating).
For ex-ample, Eu puxei o ramo e o galho separando-os297Eng l i sh  Por tuguese  Conat .
Apar t  Pathcarry levar no no  yesdrag arrsStar  no  yes yeshau l  f re tar  no  no  yeshef t  levsntar  cornd i f i cu ldade  no no  yesho is t  icar no no  yeslug  levsr  cornd i f i cu ldsde  no no  yesto te  levarfac i l rnente no no  yestow rebocar  no no  yesshove  ernpurrar  cornv io lenc ia  yes  yes  yespush  ernpurrar yes yes yesdraw puxar  yes yes yespul l  puxar  yes yes yeskick chutar  yes  yes yestug  puxar  cornforca yes  yes  yesyank  arrancar  yes yes  yesTable h Portuguese carry verbs with their al-ternations(I pulled the twig and the branch apart ), and Eleempurrou contra a parede (He pushed againstthe wal O.4.2 Chang ing  class membersh ipWe also investigated the Portuguese translationof some intersective classes of motion verbs.
Weselected the slide/roll/run, meander/roll androll/run intersective classes.
Most verbs havemore than one translation into Portuguese, sowe chose the translation that best described themeaning or that had the same type of argumentsas described in Levin's verb classes.The elements of the slide/roll/run class arerebater (bounce), flutuar (float), rolar (rol 0 anddeslizar (slide).
The resultative in Portuguesecannot be expressed in the same way as in En-glish.
It takes a gerund plus a reflexive, as in Aporta deslizou abrindo-se (The door slid openingitselj~.
Transitivity is also not always preservedin the translations.
For example, flutuar doesnot take a direct object, so some of the alterna-tions that are related to its transitive meaningare not present.
For these verbs, we have the in-duced action alternation by using the light verbfazer (make) before the verb, as in Maria fez obarco flutuar (Mary floated the boat).As can be seen in Table 2 the alternations forthe Portuguese translations of the verbs in thisintersective class indicate that they share simi-lar properties with the English verbs, includingthe causative/inchoative.
The exception to this,as just noted, is flutuar (float).
The result ofthis is that flutuar should move out of the slideclass, which puts it with derivar (drift) and pla-nar (glide) in the closely related roll/run class.As in English, derivar and planar are not exter-nally controllable actions and thus don't takethe causative/inchoative alternation common toother verbs in the roll class.
Planar doesn't akea direct object in Portuguese, and it shows theinduced action alternation the same way as flu-tuar (by using the light verb \]azer).
Derivar isusually said as "estar a deriva" ("to be adrift"),showing its non-controllable action more explic-itly.5 Discuss ionWe have presented a refinement of Levin classes,intersective classes, and discussed the potentialfor mapping them to WordNet senses.
Whereaseach WordNet synset is hierarchicalized accord-ing to only one aspect (e.g., Result, in the case ofcut), Levin recognizes that verbs in a class mayshare many different semantic features, withoutdesignating one as primary.
Intersective Levinsets partition these classes according to more co-herent subsets of features (force, force+motion,force+separation), in effect highlighting a latticeof semantic features that determine the sense ofa verb.
Given the incompleteness of the list ofmembers of Levin classes, each verb must beexamined to see whether it exhibits all the al-ternations of a class.
This might be approxi-mated by automatically extracting the syntac-tic frames in which the verb occurs in corpusdata, rather than manual analysis of each verb,as was done in this study.We have also examined a mapping betweenthe English verbs that we have discussed andtheir Portuguese translations, which have sev-eral of the same properties as the correspondingverbs in English.
Most of these verbs take thesame alternations as in English and, by virtueof these alternations, achieve the same regularsense extensions.There are still many questions that requirefurther investigation.
First, since our experi-ment was based on a translation from Englishto Portuguese, we can expect hat other verbs inPortuguese would share the same alternations,so the classes in Portuguese should by no meansbe considered complete.
We will be using re-sources uch as dictionaries and on-line corporato investigate potential additional members ofour classes.
Second, since the translation map-pings may often be many-to-many, the alterna-298rebater  f lu tuar(bounce)  ( f loat )dat ive  yes*conat ive  nocaus.
/ inch,  yesmiddle yesaccept, corer, yescaus .
/ inch ,  yesresu l ta t ive  yes yesad ject ,  part .
:~es yesind.
act ion  yes yeslocat ,  invers,  yes yesmeasure  yes  ye8*adj.
perf.
no no*cogn.
ob jec t  no  nozero nom.
yes  yesTable 2: Portuguese slide/roll~run andtions may depend on which translation is cho-sen, potentially giving us different clusters, butit is uncertain to what extent this is a factor,and it also requires further investigation.
Inthis experiment, we have tried to choose thePortuguese verb that is most closely related tothe description of the English verb in the Levinclass.We expect hese cross-linguistic features to beuseful for capturing translation generalizationsbetween languages as discussed in the litera-ture (Palmer and Rosenzweig, 1996), (Copes-take and Sanfilippo, 1993), (Dorr, 1997).
Inpursuing this goal, we are currently implement-ing features for motion verbs in the EnglishTree-Adjoining Grammar, TAG (Bleam et al,1998).
TAGs have also been applied to Por-tuguese in previous work, resulting in a smallPortuguese grammar (Kipper, 1994).
We in-tend to extend this grammar, building a morerobust TAG grammar for Portuguese, that willallow us to build an English/Portuguese trans-fer lexicon using these features.Re ferencesTonia Bleam, Martha Palmer, and Vijay Shanker.1998.
Motion verbs and semantic features in tag.In TAG-l--98, Philadelphia, PA. Submitted.Ann Copestake and Antonio Sanfilippo.
1993.
Mul-tilingual exical representation.
I  Proceedings ofthe AAAI Spring Symposium: Building Lexiconsfor Machine Translation, Stanford, California.Bonnie J. Dorr and Doug Jones.
1996.
Acquisitionof semantic lexicons: Using word sense disam-biguation to improve precision.
In Proceedings ofSIGLEX, Santa Cruz, California.Bonnie J. Dorr.
1997.
Large-scale dictionary con-struction for foreign language tutoring and in-terlingual machine translation.
Machine Trans-lation, 12:1-55.Doug Jones and Boyan Onyshkevych.
1997.
Com-rolar des l i zar  der ivar  p lanar(roll) (slide) (drift) (glide)yes  yesno noyes  yesyes yesyes yesyes  yesyes  yes  yes  yesyes  ~s ~,es ~syes  yes  no  yesyes  yes  yes  yesyes  yes  yes  yesno no  no  nono no  no  nono yes  yes  yesroll/run verbs with their alternationsparisons of levin and wordnet.
Presentation iworking session of Semantic Tagging Workshop,ANLP-97.Douglas Jones, Robert Berwick, Franklin Cho,Zeeshan Khan, Karen Kohl, Naouky Nomura,Anand Radhakrishnan Ulrich Sanerland, andBryan Ulicny.
1994.
Verb classes and alternationsin bangla, german, english, and korean.
Technicalreport, Massachussets Institute of Technology.Karin Kipper.
1994.
Uma investigacao de utilizacaodo formalismo das gramaticas de adjuncao de ar-vores para a lingua portuguesa.
Master's Thesis,CPGCC, UFRGS.B.
Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alterna-tions.J.B.
Lowe, C.F.
Baker, and C.J.
Fillmore.
1997.
Aframe-semantic approach to semantic annotation.In Proceedings 1997 Siglex Workshop/ANLP97,Washington, D.C.G.
Miller, R. Beckwith, C. Fellbaum, D. Gross, andK.
Miller.
1990.
Five papers on wordnet.
Tech-nical Report 43, Cognitive Science Laboratory,Princeton University, July.Naoyuki Nomura, Douglas A. Jones, and Robert C.Berwick.
1994.
An architecture for a universallexicon: A case study on shared syntactic infor-mation in japanese, hindi, ben gall, greek, and en-glish.
In Proceedings of COLING, pages 243-249,Santa Cruz, California.Martha Palmer and Joseph Rosenzweig.
1996.
Cap-turing motion verb generalizations with syn-chronous tags.
In AMTA-96, Montreal, Quebec,October.James Pustejovsky.
1991.
The generative l xicon.Computational Linguistics, 17(4).Patrick Salnt-Dizier.
1996.
Semantic verb classesbased on 'alternations' and on wordnet-like se-mantic criteria: A powerful convergence.
In Pro-ceedings the Workshop on Predicative Forms inNatural Language and Lexieal Knowledge Bases,Toulouse, France.299
