A Computational Model of Social PerlocutionsDavid Pautler and Alex QuiliciUniversity of Hawaii at ManoaDepartment of Electrical Engineering2540 Dole St. Holmes 483Honolulu, HI 96822AbstractThe view that communication is a form of actionserving a variety of specific functions has had atremendous impact on the philosophy of languageand on computational linguistics.
Yet, this modeof analysis has been applied to only a narrow rangeof exchanges (e.g.
those whose primary purpose istransferring information or coordinating tasks) whileexchanges meant o manage interpersonal relation-ships, maintain ufacen, or simply to convey thanks,sympathy, and so on have been largely ignored.
Wepresent a model of such Usocial perlocutions" thatintegrates previous work in natural anguage gener-ation, social psychology, and communication studies.This model has been implemented in a system thatgenerates socially appropriate -medl in response touser-specified communicative goals.1 In t roduct ionThe importance of viewing utterances as not simplystatements of fact but also as real actions (speechacts) with consequences has long been well under-stood (Searle, 1969; Austin 1975; Grice 1975).
As aresult, it is important o study not just the formalaspects of language forms but also how speakers usedifferent forms to serve different functions.
For ex-ample, one function of the act of informing anotherperson is to make the person aware of a state of af-fairs; similarly, one function of promising is to securethe return of a favor.Unfortunately, the study of speech acts has beenlargely limited to the collection and clmmification ofact types and the conditions for appropriate use ofeach type (Searle 1969; Wierzbicks 1987).
The rangeof functions, or perlocu~iot;~ry effeef~, served by dif-ferent act types has been largely ignored.
In partic-ular, there has been little or no work on the impactthat speech acts can have on social attitudes andbehavior.
Yet, without an account of how commu-Professor WHITNEY,Thank you for your invitation.
\]Unfortunately, I will not be able to givea talk at THE U OF M COMPUTERSCIENCE DEPARTMENT on APRIL 14, 1998.I regret that I must decline.
\]II have a previous commitment.
\[You may want o invite DAN VLASIK in my place.
!He is well-acquainted with the work we do here \]I at McCORMICK SYSTEMS.If you would like to pursue this option, pleasecontact him directly at (808) 555-1973.Figure 1: A LetterGen Output Samplenlcation can affect social situations, it is impossibleto construct systems that are capable of generatingsocially appropriate text.This paper provides a computational model ofaocial perlocutionJ, and it describes how this modelhas been used to construct an automated system,?etterGen~ for generating socially appropriate e-mallmessages and letters.
This system takes generalcommunicative and social goals from the user, suchas demanding action or expressing congratulations,queries the user about subgoals and pertinent back-ground information, and generates the text of anappropriate message by planning individual speechacts.As an example, Figure 1 shows a message gener-ated by LetterGen in response to an input goal todecline an invitation politely.
In this example, thewriter was invited by the addressee to travel and givea talk, but the writer had a previous commitmentand must decline.
However, the writer knows some-1020one who could give the talk in his place.
The systemplanned s set of speech acts and realized each as aclause or phrase using a text template library.
Theseacts include (1) thanking, (2) declining-request, (3)apologizing, (4) making-excuse, (5) advising, (6) as-suring, and (7) requesting.Most of the text in the letter is devoted to ad-dressing the writer's social goals of being polite andhelpful.
In contrast, a letter writer concerned onlywith informing the addresee that he was not partic-ipating would likely say little other than "I won't begiving a talk at your event n, a socially inappropriateresponse.2 Previous ResearchOur work builds on results from three disparate ar-eas: natural anguage generation (NLG), communi-cation studies, and social psychology.The NLG community has focused on a small sub-set of the five generally accepted categories of speechacts (Levinson, 1983):1.
Representatives--statements givenas true de-pictions of the world (e.g., asserting, conclud-ing).2.
Directives---statements attempting to per-suede the hearer to do something (e.g., order-ing, advising, warning).3.
Commissives----statements that commit thespeaker to a course of action (e.g., promising,accepting a request, taking a side).4.
Expressives---statements xpressing a psycho-logical state (e.g., apologizing, congratulating,condoling).5.
Declarations---statements ffecting an immedi-ate change in the institutional state of affairs(e.g., christening, firing from employment).In particular, research in NLG has been limitedto one type of representative (i.e., informing) andone type of directive (i.e., requesting), and it hasfurther focused on informing's potential to con~/neethe hearer of some fact and requesting's potential topersuade the hearer to do some action (Allen et al,1994; Appelt, 1985; Bruce, 1975; Cohen and Per-fault, 1979; Hovy, 1988; Perrault and Allen, 1979).As a result, it has largely ignored speech acts in othercategories, uch as promising, advising, and credit-ing, as well as their potential perlocutionary effectsof creating airnnity between speaker and hearer, se-curing future favors for the speaker, and so on.In contrast, research in communication stud-ies has explored strategies for persuading, creatingaffinity, comforting, and many other interpersonalgoak (Daly and Wiemann, 1994; Marcu, 1997).
Forexample, the strategies for persuading include notonly requesting, but also exchange, ingratiation, andsanctions.
However, these efforts have not analyzedthese strategies in terms of speech act types and per-locutionary effects o that these strategies might berealieed in computational form.Finally, research in social psychology has lookedat how personality traits affect interpersonal interac-tion.
For example, Kiesler (1983) formulated generalrules for describing how one person expressing onetrait (e.g., merciful) can lead to another person ex-pressing a symmetric and complementary trait (e.g.,appreciative).
Such interaction dyads are directlymsppable to the speaker/hearer dyad of speech acttheory, and the vocabulary of trait terms and pre-dictive rules suggest one way of lending organizationto the great variety of perlocutionary effects.
Yet,social psychologists have not mapped their generaltrait terms to the classes of speech acts that mightexpress these traits.What's been lacking is an attempt o integratethe lessons learned from these different research ef-forts to provide an initial model of social perlocu-tions; that is, a model that describes how specificspeech act types have the potential to produce spe-cific effects in a hearer corresponding to a speaker'ssocial goals, and that is specified formally enough tobe used as part of text generation systems.3 Our ModelThere are two key questions to address in forming acomputational model of social perlocutions:?
What are the possible socially-relevant effectsof speech acts??
What are the relationships between differenteffects?3.1 Social Perlocutionary EffectsWe have developed a taxonomy of social perlocution-ary effects of speech acts.
These effects are definedin terms of mental attitudes of the hearer, followingthe assumption i speech act theory that all perlocu-tionary effects follow from the hearer's recognition ofthe speaker's communicative intent.
The taxonomyis:1021.....6.Beliefs about speaker's precise communicativecontent and communicative intent.Beliefs about he speaker's intent o benefit orharm the hearer.Beliefs about the heater's or speaker's respon-sibilities (ascribed or undertaken).Beliefs about (or, impressions of) the speaker'spersonality traits.The heater's emotions.The relationship between the hearer and thespeaker.7.
The hearer's goals.We developed this taxonomy by reviewing thecommunications studies and social psychology liters-ture, as we\]\] as by analysing a corpus of letters and e-nudl messages for their speech acts and most promi-nent social effects.
Prior research on speech acts haslargely ignored several of these categories, especiallythe effects on personality impressions, emotions, andthe speaker-hearer r lationship.3.2 Relationship Between Social Ef-fectsThis taxonomy is important because there appearto be significant restrictions on the relationships be-tween these different classes of effects.Figure 2 shows how these different types of effectsare related.
The arrows represent potential causallinks between effects.
These links are potential be-cause there are specific conditions associated withspecific effects that dictate whether one effect willcause another.Essentially, the effects start with the hearer'srecognition and acceptance of a message's contentand culminates inchanges to hearer goals and the re-latiouship between the hearer and the speaker.
Thatis, a speech act directly results in beliefs about thecontent and intent of utterances and these beliefsindirectly result in changes to goals, emotions, andinterpersonal relationships.
Specficially, these beliefcan lead to indirect changes in the heater's beliefabout the speaker's intent to benefit or harm thehearer, as well as changes to the heater's responsibil-ities that involve the speaker.
In turn, changes in be-lief about whether the speaker intends to benefit orharm the header can lead to changes in the hearer'sgoals, the heater's emotions, and the heater's im-pressions of the speaker's personality raits.
Finally,5changes inH's goals6 /changes inH's emotions7changes tothe strength ofH's relationshipwith S4changes inH's impressionsf orS'straits2 H's belief aboutS's intent obenefit or harm HH's belief incontent andintent of actsdirected at HTS's speech actsdirected at H3changes toH's beliefs aboutresponsibilitiesinvolving SFigure 2: The Relationships Between Social Effectschanges to the hearer's emotions can lead to changesin the hearer's relationship with the speaker.Our hypothesis i  that Figure 2 provides aframe-work into all speech acts with social effects can bemapped.
To test this hypothesis, we analyzed in de-tail the relationship between the effects of 40 differ-ent types of speech acts, and we successfully placedeach into this framework (Pautler, 1999).
Thesespeech acts were typical of the letters and messageswe collected, and they were representative of four ofthe five main categories of speech acts.1Figure 3 is an example, showing these effects forapolo~zing, a Although not shown in Figure 3, thecausal relationships between these effects have con-ditions attached to them.
In Figure 3, for example, acondition on an apology leading to the hearer believ-ing the speaker feels regret is that the hearer believesthe speaker is sincere and there is an act for which1We did not represent deelar6tions because we chose tofocus ?m acts used in casual, interpersonal interactions ratherthA~ acts that were institutionally framed.=We do not r l .
; , ,  that the model applies to groups otherth~n adu/t Westea'ne~.
See Bm'nlund (1989) for comparisonsen the use of different speech acts by Americana nd Japanese.10220"0~?0H's relationship withS is strengthenedtH's liking for S increasesH believes PraisingS is likable?
.H believes DenyingS is conscientious l ~.. praiseH believes WarningS is accountablel ~o  ?
o .oH believes ThankingS feels regrettApologizingFigure 3: The Effects Of Apologisingan apology is appropriate.We draw our terminology for describing specificpersonality traits (e.g., likeable, conscientious) andemotions (e.g., gratitude, liking) from existing tax-onomies (Kiesler, 1983; Ortony et al, 1988).Figure 3 shows effects with arrows leading tothem from other speech acts, such as praising, warn-hag, thanking, and so on.
These speech acts are thereto illustrate that speech acts are related through aweb of interlocking effects.
That is, the causal rela-tiouships between speech acts and effects is many-to-many: a single act can have many different effectsand any single effect can be brought about by manydifferent acts.
For example, expressing a demandcan bring about compliance, anger, or both, andsimilarly, anger can be caused by a variety of otheracts, such as issuing a threat.
In Figure 3, bothpraising and apologizing are examples of acts thatcan increase the heater's liking for the speaker, andboth apologiMng and thanking can lead the hearerto believe the speaker is accountable.This large web of relationships between the ef-fects of social speech acts leads to the question: Howcan we efficiently generate the speech acts we needto achieve an appropriate motional response in thehearer?4 A Model  Of Letter  Genera-t ionTo illustrate the power of our model of social per-locution, we have applied it to the task of e-mailgeneration i  a system called LetterGen.
The sys-tem's primary task is to take a high-level commu-nicative goal (e.g., inform a colleague that one can'tattend a meeting) and suggest a set of speech actsto achieve that goal.
However, once it has made thissuggestion, the system then interact with the userto determine which speech acts will appear in thefinal message and to acquire any additional bat.k-ground information eeded to iustantiate sentencetext templates associated with each speech act.In addition to the user's explicit input goal, thesystem works with a set of "standardn user goals.These goals fall into three classes:1.
Cost avoidance avoiding undesired aspects ofa current or incipient situation, such as un-wanted social perceptions of oneself.2.
Status-quo maintenance ~election of an actbecause one of its effects would reinforce a de-sired aspect of the current situation (e..g, of-feting to help another person because it wouldreinforce one's self-image as a generous per-son).3.
Trait-based habit--performing of an act as atimeworn expression of a personality trait.These goals can be thought as a stereotypical modelof the user (Chin, 1989).
These goals are achievedopportunistically during the process of determiningspeech acts for the explicitly provided user goal.4.1 A Graph-Based  Representat ionOf  Speech  Act  Re la t ionsh ipsLetterGen essentially represents the perlocutionaryeffects of speech acts as a large graph.
Figure 4 il-lustrates a portion of this representation that relatesthe speech acts of declining, thanking, and apologiz-ing.
The nodes of the graph represent various effects,and the unlabled edges represent a causal relation-ships between two effects.
There are also constraintson when edges can be traversed (although ey are1023MITIGATESI H ,ie ?
1 SIDE EFFECT S is impolite tlH believesS is unappreciativeEXPLICIT \[ H believes 1INITIAL ~ S will notGOAL attendTDecliningH believesS is politetH believesS is accountable / \H believes H believesS feels S feels regretgratitude forthe offertThanking ApologizingFigure 4: A representation for Declining, Thanking,and Apologising.ward ~ as far as possible.5.
If an effect is indexed by a mitigates link, fol-low the link to the mitigating effect in theother chain.
Continue with steps 2 and 3.As an example, consider the user's communics-tive goal to make the hearer believe that the speakerwill not attend.
Lettergen traverses the graph down-wards to locate the speech act Declining.
After de-termining this speech act, LetterGen then traversesthe graph upward, moving through its effects, veri-fying that none of them conflict with known speakergoals.
In this case, one of the effects of Decliningconflicts with the speaker's goal that the hearer be.lieves the speaker is polite.
At this point, LetterGengenerates a new goal to mitigate that effect, andrecursively uses its algorithm to locate speech actsto achieve that goal.
With the failed goal of beingperceived as polite, LetterGen's downward traver-sal locates Thanking and Apologising as appropriatespeech acts to mitigate that failure.not shown in this figure).
Finally, there are mitigatesfinks between odes when two effects are contradic-tory.A reasonable view of LetterGen's approach isthat there is a acr/pt associated with each speech actthat captures the causal chain of effects that poten-tlally follow from it.
While these effects could pre-sumably be determined by reasoning from first prin-ciples, these scripts can be viewed as standard meth-ogs of achieving communicative goals, and they areessentially equivalent to the communicative strate-gies proposed by others (Marco, 1997).4.2 Determin ing  Appropr ia te  SpeechActsLetterGen's algorithm for producing a response in-volves 5 steps:1.
Metch the user's goal to one of the nodes (ef-fects) in the graph.2.
From the matching effect, traverse graph finks"downward ~ toward the speech act, checkingthe conditions on each link.3.
For every path that reaches an act by satisfy-ing all conditions along the path, add the actto the new message by instantiating the act'stext template.4.
Detect undesirable side effects of each addedspeech act by traversing all links back "up-4.3 An  A l te rnat ive  To  P lann ingThis approach can be viewed as a form of reactiveplanning.
LetterGen can be viewed as having asimple goal (communicate a particular belief to thehearer), forming a plan (finding a set of speech actsthat communicate his belief), analyzing the effectsof the plan (looking for user goals that are violatedby these speech acts), and opportunistically pursu-ing new goals (to mitigate these violations).LetterGen differs significantly from most otherefforts in planning speech acts.
These efforts explic-itly represent speech acts and their effects as planoperators and attempt to synthesize sequences ofop-erators.
Unfortunately, as others have pointed out(Cohen and Levesque, 1980; 1990), plan operatorsare not a good representation when acts have longchains of effects.
That's because ach chain that re-suits from a given act must be conflated to a fiatlist of effects, or each effect must be re-envisioned asan act, with one operator for each effect and appro-priate preconditions so the operators can form theappropriate chain.LetterGen's approach ismost similar to the alter-native to planning for speech-modeling proposed byCohen and Levesque (1980, 1990).
Their approachuses a set of inference rules and act type definitionsand is explicitly designed to capture sequences ofthis type,cl c2 ciA(d) - - ->  E l  - - ->  E2 - - - .
.
, - - ->  E i1024where A(d) is an act that communicates proposi-tional content d (definitional content for some acttype), which induces effect E1 under conditions cl,which induces effect E2 under conditions c2, and soon.This rule formalism is directly mappab\]e to theconditionalised causal relations used in our socialperlocutions model, with two exceptions.
One isthat we capture the rules with an annotated graphstructure that makes the connectivity among rulesexplicit (scripts).
The other provide a specializedgraph-traversal algorithm that takes advantage ofkey properties of the graph, which allows us to sub-stitute t~cient graph traversal for generallsed plan-ning.5 Implementat ionThe current implementation contains avery detailedmodel of speech act effects, containing over 400effects and constraints.
It is able to generate adozen different ypes of messages, including initiat-ing or terminating a friendship, applying or resign-ing from a job, congratulating or consoling someone,accepting or declining an invitation, encouraging ordiscouraging someone from doing an act, thankingsomeone, and apologizing to someone.
Each of thesedifferent message types includes an organizationaltemplate that places generated acts in an appropri-ate order for the task.An important part of LetterGen is its interac-tion with the user.
Given a selected message type,LetterGen suggests at least three speech acts for theuser to choose from.
For example, the thanking mes-sage type (i.e., make them believe you feel gratitude)can be instantiated crediting (distributing credit),offering (to repay), as well as an overt expression ofgratitude (i.e., thanking).
For each act chosen bythe user, the system queries the user for the back-ground information needed to instantiate an appro-priate text template.6 Limitations and FutureWorkThe model currently has three major limitations.First, it does not cover all aspects of social inter-actions.
For example, it does not have conditionsor effects involving the relative status of the speakerand hearer, or specialized roles they might play (e.g.,judge, employer, and so on).
Second, the condi-tions on exactly when effects occur need to be elabo-rated significantly.
Finally, there are socially-relatedspeech acts we have not yet represented (e.g., ex-pressing sadness, joy, and so on).The primary implementation limitation involvesthe background information required to determinewhether various conditions hold.
Currently, the im-plementation does not query the user for all thebackground information it could take advantage of.The reason is that too many queries makes the pro-gram loses its appeal as a work-saving device.
Arelated limitation is that its model of the speaker'sgoals is static, rather than dynamic (e.g., the speakeris always assumed to have a goal of being polite).
Weare addressing both of these problems by exploringtechniques for forming a detailed user profile andapplying across a large set of generated letters.
Theother important limitation is that its organizationaland text templates are not particularly flexible (e.g.,they demand a specific speech act order and theyrealize each speech act as a single sentence).
Oneway to address this problem is to take the set ofspeech acts that LetterGen wants to generate as agoal and to plan exactly how they will be realized(Hovy, 1993; Moore and Paris, 1994; Hobbs, 1982).One interesting area for future exploration is theproblem of applying the model to letter understand-ing as well as generation.
This problem is potentiallydifllcult, as there are a variety of social reasons whya particular speech act might have appeared.
For ex-ample, the thanking act might have been included inthe example of Figure 1 in order to lessen the socialdebt the invites owes to the inviter, or to avoid in-sulting the inviter through curtness, or to make theinvites feel that he is a polite person, or simply outof habit.7 ConclusionsThis paper has presented a computational modelof the sodal perlocutionary effects of speech acts.Our model extends previous formal modela of speechacts to take into account effects involving emotions,impressions, and the interpersonal relationship be-tween the speaker and the hearer.
In doing so,we have integrated earlier esults from natural lan-guage generation on speech acts, from communica-tion studies on communication strategies, and fromsocial psychology on how interactions affect person-ality traits.We have used this model to construct a proto-type program that generates letters that meet socialgoals.
This task is a key aspect of any general-purpose, intelligent, personal assistant that is in-1025volved in mediating interpersonal interaction.References\[i\] J. F. Allen, L. K. Schubert, O. Ferguson, P.Heeman, C. H. Hwang, T. Kato, M. Li ght,N.
G. Martin, B. W. Miller, M. Poesio, andD.
R. Traum.
1994.
The TRAINS project: Acase studl/ in building a eon~ersationa!
plan-ning agent.
Technical Report 532, ComputerScience Department, University of Rochester,Rochester, N'Y.\[2\] D. Appelt.
1985.
Planning Engl~h sentences.New York: Cambridge University Press.\[3\] J.L.
Austin.
1975.
Ho~o to do fAings ~oifh ~oorda.Cambridge, MA:Harvard University Press.\[4\] D. Barnlund.
1989.
Communicate stl/les ofJapanese and Ame~canJ: Images and Realities.Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing.\[5\] B. Bruce.
1975.
Belief spstema and languageunderstanding.
Technical Repor t 2973.
Cam-bridge, MA: Bolt, Beranek, and Newman.\[6\] D. Chin.
1989.
KNOME: Modeling What TheUser Knows In UC.
In, A. Kobsa and W.Wah\]ster (eds): User Modeling in Dialog glis-tens.
Berlin, Heidelberg: Spring-Verlag, pages74-107.\[7\] P. R. Cohen and H. J. Levesque.
1990.
Ratio-hal interaction as a bash for communication.In Cohen, Morgan, and Pollack 1990.\[8\] P. R. Cohen and C. R. Perrsult.
1979.
Elementsof a plan-based theory of speech acts.
CognitiveScience 3.
177-212.\[9\] P. R. Cohen, J. Morgan, and M. E. Pol-lack (eds).
1990.
Intentions in communication.Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.\[10\] J.
A. Daly and 3.
M. Wiemann (eds).
1994.Strategic interpersonal communication.
Hills-dale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.\[11\] H. P. Grice.
1975.
Logic and conversation.
InSynto, z and semantics III: Speech ac~, (eds) P.Cole and 3.
L. Morgan.
New York: AcademicPress.\[12\] J. R. Hobbs.
1982.
Towards an understanding ofcoherence in discourse.
In S ~rategies for na~u-wI language processing, (eds.)
W. Lehnert and\[13\]\[14\]\[15\]\[16\]\[17\]\[18\]\[19\]\[20\]\[211M.
Ringie.
Hil Isdale, NJ: Lawrence ErlbaumAuocistes.E.
H. Hovy.
1988.
(~'enerafing natu~ lan-guage under pragmatic eonatrain~.
Hlllsdale,NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.E.
H. Hovy.
1993.
Automated iscourse gener-ation using discourse structure relat ions.
Ar~/~j~cia!
Intelligence 63.
341-385.D.
Kiesler.
1983.
The 1982 interpersonal cir-de: A taxonomy for complementarity in humantransactions.
Psyclwlogica!
Renew (90) 3.
185-214.3.
D. Moore and C. L. Paris.
1994. p\]ann;ngtext for advisory dialogues: Capturing inten-tional and rhetorical information.
Comput6-tiona~ I, inguiatics (19) 4.
651-694.A.
Ortony, G. Clore, and A. Collins.
1988.The cognitive s~ructuro f emotion~.
New York:Cambridge University Press.D.
Pautler, 1999.
A Computer Mode!
of Strate-gic AspecfJ of Inteepersona!
Communication.,Forthcoming Phd Dissertation.C.
R. Perrault and 2.
Allen.
1980.
A plan-based analysis of indirect speech acts .
Amer-ican Joul-aa!
of Computational Linguiatics (6)3-4.
167-182.J.
Searle.
1069.
SpeecK ac~.
New York: Cam-bridge University Press.A.
Wiersbicka.
1987.
Engliah speech act ~erbs.Sydney: Academic Press.1026
