Bilingual Hebrew-English Generation of Possessives andPartitives: Raising the Input Abstraction LevelYael Dahan Netzer and Michael ElhadadBen Gurion UniversityDepartment of Mathematics and Computer Science, Beer Sheva, 84105, Israel(yaeln I elhadad) @cs.
bgu.
ac.
ilAbstractSyntactic realization grammars have tradi-tionally attempted to accept inputs with thehighest possible level of abstraction, in or-der to facilitate the work of the compo-nents (sentence planner) preparing the in-put.
Recently, the search for higher ab-straction has been, however, challenged (E1-hadad and Robin, 1996)(Lavoie and Ram-bow, 1997)(Busemann a d Horacek, 1998).In this paper, we contribute to the issue ofselecting the "ideal" abstraction level in theinput to syntactic realization grammar byconsidering the case of partitives and pos-sessives in a bilingual Hebrew-English gen-eration grammar.
In the case of bilingualgeneration, the ultimate goal is to provide asingle input structure, where only the open-class lexical entries are specific to the lan-guage.
In that case, the minimal abstractionrequired must cover the different syntacticconstraints of the two languages.We present a contrastive analysis of thesyntactic realizations of possessives and par-titives in Hebrew and English and concludeby presenting an input specification for com-plex NPs which is slightly more abstractthan the one used in SURGE.
We define twomain features -possessor and rejLset, and?
discuss how the grammar handles complexsyntactic o-occurrence phenomena based onthis input.
We conclude by evaluating howthe resulting input specification language isappropriate for both languages.1 IntroductionOne of the first issues to address when se-lecting a syntactic realization componentis whether its input specification languagefits the desired application.
Traditionally,syntactic realization components have at-tempted to raise the abstraction level of in-put specifications for two reasons: (1) to pre-serve the possibility of paraphrasing and (2)to make it easy for the sentence planner tomap from semantic data to syntactic inputAs new applications appear, that can-not start generation from a semantic in-put because such an input is not available(for example re-generation of sentences fromsyntactic fragments to produce summaries(Barzilay et al, 1999) or generation of com-plex NPs in a hybrid template system forbusiness letters (Gedalia, 1996)), this moti-vation has lost some of its strength.
Con-sequently, "shallow surface generators" haverecently appeared (Lavoie and Rambow,1997) (Busemann and Horacek, 1998) thatrequire an input considerably less abstractthan those required by more traditional re-alization components uch as SURGE (E1-hadad and Robin, 1996) or KPML (Bate-man, 1997).In this paper, we contribute to the de-bate on selecting an appropriate l vel of ab-straction by considering the case of bilin-gual generation.
We present results ob-tained while developing the HUGG syntacticrealization component for Hebrew (Dahan-Netzer, 1997).
One of the goals of this sys-tem is to design a generator with an inputspecification language as similar as possibleto that of an English generator, SURGE inour  case .The ideal scenario for bilingual generationis illustrated in Figure 1.
It consists of the144John gave a book to MaryJohn natan sefer le-Marycatprocpartic:lausetyperelation-typeagentaffectedpossessorpossessedcomposite \]possessivelex 'John'gender masculine \[cat proper \]\[1\] lex 'Mary'gender feminine\[1\]cat common \]lex 'book/sefer'Figure 1" Ideal scenario for bilingual gener-ationfollowing steps:1.
Prepare an input specification in onelanguage2.
Translate all the lexical entries (func-tion words do not appear)3.
Generate with any grammarIn the example, the same input structureis used and the generator can produce sen-tences in both languages if only the lexicalitems are translated.Consider the following paraphrase in En-glish for the same input: John gave Mary abook.The Hebrew grammar does not producesuch a paraphrase, as there is no equivalentin Hebrew to the dative move alternation.In this case, we conclude that the input ab-straction level is appropriate.
In contrast,if the input had specified a structure such asindirect-object(prep=to/le, np--Mary), thenit would not have been abstract enough toserve as a bilingual input structure.Similarly, the English possessive marker isvery close to the Hebrew "construct state"(smixut):The King's palaceArmon ha-melexPalace-cs the-kingThe following input structure seems,therefore, appropriate for both languages:lexpossessorcommon 1 "palace" / armon"\[leXdefinite yes"king"/"melex"\]There are, however, divergences betweenthe use of smixut in Hebrew and of the pos-sessive marker in English:Segovia's pupil The pupil of Segovia* talmyd segovyah talmyd Sel segovyah?
The house's windows The windows of the houseHaionot ha-bayit ha-Halonot Sel ha-bayitOur goal, therefore, is to design an inputstructure that is abstract enough to let thegrammar decide whether to use a possessivemarker vs. an of-construct in English or aSel-construct vs. a smixut-construction inHebrew.A similar approach as been adopted ingeneration (Bateman, 1997), (Bateman etal., 1991) and in machine translation mostnotably in (Dorr, 1994).
Dorr focuses on di-vergences at the clause level as illustrated bythe following example:I like MaryMaria me gusta a miMary pleases meDorr selects a representation structurebased on Jackendoff's Lexical ConceptualStructures (LCS) (Jackendoff, 1990).In the KPML system, the proposed so-lution is based on the systemic notion of"delicacy" and the assumption is that low-delicacy input features (the most abstractones) remain common to the two target lan-guages and high-delicacy features would dif-fer.In this paper, we focus on the input spec-ification for complex NPs.
The main reasonfor this choice is that the input for NPs inSURGE has remained close to English syn-tax (low abstraction).
It consists of the fol-lowing main sub-constituents: head, classi-tier, describer, qualifier and determiner.In previous work (Elhadad, 1996), we dis-cuss how to map a more abstract domain-specific representation to the SURGE input145structure within a sentence planner.
Whenmoving to a bilingual generator, we havefound the need for a higher level of ab-straction to avoid encoding language-specificknowledge in the sentence planners.
Wespecifically discuss here the following deci-sions:?
How to realize a possessive relation:John's shirt vs. the shirt of John?
How to realize a partitive relation: allthe kids vs. all of the kidsIn the rest of the paper, we first presentbasic contrastive data and existing analysesabout possessives and partitives in Hebrewand English.
We then present he input fea-tures we have designed to cover possessivesand partitives in both languages and discusshow these features are used to account forthe main decisions required of the realizer.We conclude by an evaluation of the bilin-gual input structure on a set of 100 sampleinput structures for complex NPs in the twolanguages and of the divergences that remainin the generated NPs.
In conclusion, thisbilingual analysis has helped us identify im-portant abstractions that lead to more fluentgeneration i both languages.2 Possessives and Partitives inHebrew and EnglishThis section briefly presents data on posses-sives and partitives in English and Hebrew.These observations delimit he questions weaddress in the paper: when is a genitive con-struct used to express possessives and whenis an explicit partitive used.2.1 Possessives in EnglishPossessives can be realized in two basicstructures: as part of the determiner se-quence (Halliday, 1994) (as either a pos-sessive pronoun or a full NP marked withapostrophe-s as a genitive marker) or as aconstruct NP of NP.In addition to possessive, the genitivemarker can realize several semantic relations(Quirk et al, 1985) (pp.192-203): subjec-tive genitive (the boy's application - - the  boyapplied) , genitive of origin (the girl's story- -  the girl told a story), objective genitive,descriptive genitive (a women's college --  acollege for woman).As a consequence of this versatility, thegeneral decision of apostrophe vs. of isnot trivial: Quirk claims that the higheron the gender scale, i.e., the more animatethe noun, the more the possessor realizationtends to be realized as an inflected genitive:?
Person's name: Segovia's pupil?
Person's nouns: the boy's new shirt?
Collective nouns: the nation's social se-curity?
Higher Animals: the horse's neck?
Geographical names: Europe's future?
Locative nouns: the school's history?
Temporal nouns: the decade's eventThis decision also interacts with other re-alization decisions: if several modifiers mustbe attached to the same head, they can com-pete for the same slot in the syntactic struc-ture.
In such cases, the decision is one ofpreference ranking: The boy's application oflast year vs. last year's application of theboy.2.2 Possessives in HebrewPossessives in Hebrew can be realized bythree syntactic onstructions:const ruct  s ta tecadur ha-tynokball the-babyf ree gen i t iveha-cadur Sel ha-tynokthe ball of the babydoub le  gen i t ivecadur-o Sel ha-tynokball-his of the-babyThe construct state (called smixut) issimilar to the apostrophe marker in En-glish: it involves a noun adjacent o an-other noun or noun phrase, without anymarker (like a preposition) between them(Berman, 1978).
The head noun in the con-struct form generally undergoes morpholog-ical changes: yaldah - yaldat.
Smixut is, onthe one hand, very productive in Hebrew andyet very constrained (Dahan-Netzer and E1-hadad, 1998b).146Free genitive constructs use a preposi-tional phrase with the preposition Sel.
Manystudies treat Sel as a case marker only(cf.
(Berman, 1978) (Yzhar, 1993) (Borer,1988)).The choice of one of the three forms seemsto be stylistic and vary in spoken and writ-ten Hebrew (cf.
(Berman, 1978), (Glin-eft, 1989), (Ornan, 1964), and discussionin (Seikevicz, 1979)).
But, in addition tothese pragmatic factors and as is the case forthe English genitive, the construct state canrealize a wide variety of semantic relations(Dahan-Netzer and Elhadad, 1998b), (Azar,1985), (Levi, 1976).
The selection is alsoa matter of preference ranking among com-petitors for the same syntactic slot.
For ex-ample, we have shown in (Dahan-Netzer andElhadad, 1998b) that the semantic relationsthat can be realized by a construct stateare the ones defined as classifier in SURGE.Therefore, the co-occurrence of such a rela-tion with another classifier leads to a com-petition for the syntactic slot of "classifier"and also contributes to the decision of howto realize a possessive.Consider the following example:catheadclassifierpossessorcommonlex "Simlah"/"dress" \]lex "Sabat" \]cat common \]lex "yalda"/"girl"If only the possessor is provided in the fol-lowing input, it can be mapped to a con-struct state:Simlat ha-yaldahdress-cs the-girlthe girl's dressIf a classifier is provided in addition,the construct-state slot is not availableanymore 1, and the free genitive constructmust be used:Simlat ha-Sabat Sel ha-yaldahdress-cs the-Shabat of the-girlThe Shabat dress of the girll If the classifier had been specified in the inputas a semantic relation as discussed in (Dahan-Netzerand Elhadad, 1998b), an alternative r alization (Thegirl's dress/or Shabat) could have been obtained.2.3 Partit ives in EnglishThe partitive relation denotes a subset of thething to which the head of a noun phraserefers.
A partitive relation can be realized intwo main ways: as part of the pre-determinersequence (Halliday, 1994), (Winograd, 1983)using quantifiers that have a partitive mean-ing (e.g., some/most/many/one-third (ofthe) children) or using a construction of theform a measure/X of Y.There are three subtypes of the parti-tive construction ((Quirk et al, 1985)\[p.130\],(Halliday, 1994)): measure a mile of cable,typical partitives a loaf of bread, a slice ofcake, and general partitives: a piece/bit/ofan item of X.In the syntactic structure of a partitivestructure, the part is the head of the phrase(and determines agreement), but the Thing- is what is being measured.
This createsan interesting difference ~)etween the logicaland syntactic structure of the NP.
(Mel'cuk and Perstov, 1987) defines theelective surface syntactic relation which con-nects an of-phrase to superlative adjectivesor numerals.
An elective phrase is an ellip-tical structure: the rightmost \[string\] of thestrings.
It can be headed by an adjective insuperlative form (the poorest among the na-tion), a numeral (45 of these 256 sentences),ordinal (the second of three) or a quantita-tive word having the feature elect: all, most,some of...
The elective relation can be usedrecursively (Many of the longest of the first45 of these 256 sentences).In the case of quantifier-partitives, onemust decide whether to use an explicitly par-titive construct (some of the children) or not(some children).
The structure that doesnot use of is used for generic NPs (whenthe head is non-definite: most children).
Forspecific reference, the of-construction is op-tional with nouns and obligatory with pro-nouns:all (of) the meatall of it2.4 Par t i t i ves  in HebrewThere are two possible ways to express par-titivity in Hebrew: using a construction of147the form X me-Y, or using a partitive quan-tifier.
In contrast o English, quantifiers thatare marked as partitive, cannot be used in anexplicitly partitive structure:roy ha-ye ladym - * roy me-ha-ye ladym - most  o f  thechi ldrenSe 'a r  ha -ye ladym - * Se 'a r  me-ha-ye ladym - the rest o f  thechi ldrencol ha-ye ladym - * col me-ha-ye ladym - all of  the chi ldrenConversely, a quantifier that is not markedas partitive can be used in an explicitly par-titive structure:harbeh ye ladym - many chi ldrenharbeh me-haye ladym - many of  the chi ldrenmewat ha-ye ladym - few the-childrenmewat me-ha-ye ladym - few of  the-childrenThere are complex restrictions in Hebrew onthe co-occurrence of several determiners inthe same NP and on their relative order-ing within the NP.
To explain them, Glin-ert (Glinert, 1989) adopts a functional per-spective, quite appropriate to the needs ofa generation system, and identifies a generalpattern for the NP, that we use as a basis forthe mapping rules in HUGG:\[partitive determiner amount headclassifiers describerspost-det/quant qualifiers\]Yzhar and Doron (Doron, 1991) (Yzhar,1993) distinguish between two sets of deter-miners, that they call D and Q quantifiers.The distinction is based on syntactic fea-tures, such as position, ability to be modi-fied, ability to participate in partitive struc-tures and requirement to agree in numberand gender with the head.
This distinctionis used to explain co-occurrence r strictions,the order of appearance ofD vs Q quantifiersand the recursive structure of D determiners:D determiners can be layered on top of otherD determiners.
A single Q quantifier can oc-cur in an NP and it remains attached closestto the head.In (Dahan-Netzer, 1997) and (Dahan-Netzer and Elhadad, 1998a), we have refinedthe D/Q classification and preferred usingfunctional criteria: we map the Q quanti-tiers to the "amount" category defined byGlinert, and the D set is split into the parti-tive and determiner categories - each with adifferent function.
Of these, only partitivesare recursive.Given these observations, the following de-cisions must be left "open" in the input tothe realizer: how to map a possessor to dif-ferent realizations; in which order to placeco-occurring quantifiers; and whether to usean explicit of construct for partitive quanti-tiers.
The input specification language mustalso enforce that only acceptable recursivestructures be expressible.3 Def in ing  an  Abst rac t  Inputfo r  NP  Rea l i za t ion3.1 Input  FeaturesThe input structure for NPs we adopt is splitin four groups of features, which appear inFigure 3.1:?
Head or reference-set: defines the thingor set referred to by the NP?
Qualifying: adds information to thething?
Identifying: identifies the thing amongother possible referents?
Quantifying: determines the quantity oramount of the thing.The main modifications from the existingSURGE input structure are the introductionof the re/-set feature and the update of theusage of the possessor feature.For both of these features, the main re-quirement on the realizer is to properly han-dle cases of "competition" for the same re-stricted syntactic slot, as illustrated in theShabat dress example above.The possible realizations of pos-sessor are controlled by the featurerealize-possessor-as free-genitive,bound or double-genitive.
Defaults(unmarked cases) vary between the twolanguages and the co-occurrence constraintsalso vary, because each form is mapped todifferent syntactic slots.For example, a bound possessor is mappedto the determiner slot in English, while inHebrew it is mapped to a classifier slot.148Qualifying features English Realization Hebrew Realizationclassifier Leather shoe nawal worElectric chair cise' HaSmalydescriber Pretty boy yeled yafehqualifier A story about a cat sypur wal HatulA story I read sypur S-kar'atypossessor The king's palace Armon ha-melezA palace of a king Armon Sel melezThe book of his Armono SeioIdentifying featuresdistance That boy yeled zehOrdinal The third child ha-yeled ha-SlySystatus (deictic2)Definite yes/noSelective yes/noTotal +/-/noneThe same childThe/a bookSome/D childrenAl l /No/~ childrenQuantifying features IOto yeled(ha) seyerTotal +/-/noneCardinal The three childrenFractionMultiplierdegree +degree-degree nonecomparative yesOne-third o I the childrenTwice his weight(The) many earsA little butterSome childrenMofl~ earssuperlative yes The most carsevaluative yes Too many earsor ientat ion-  Few carscol hayeladym, A\] EHad me-ha-yeladymSloSet ha-yeladymSIyS me-ha-yeladymciflaym miSkaloharbeh mezonyot, ha-mezonyot ha-rabotkZa T Hems 'heamah yeladymyoter mezonyotroy ha-mezonyotyoter m-day mezonyotmewaT mezonyotFigure 2: Input featuresWhen possessives are realized as free gen-itives, they are mapped to the slot of qual-ifiers, usually in the front position.
Boro-chovsky (Borochovsky, 1986) discusses ex-ceptions to this ordering rule in Hebrew:Vawadah l-wirwurym Sel ha-miSTarahThe commission for.appeals of the-police* Vawadah Sel ha-MiSTarah l-wirwurymIn this example, the purpose-modifier is"closer" semantically to the head than thepossessor.
The ordering decision must relyon semantic information (purpose) that isnot available in our general input structure(cf.
(Dahan-Netzer and Elhadad, 1998b) foran even more abstract proposal).Realization rules in each language takeinto account the restrictions on possiblemappings for the possessor by unifying thefeature realize-possessive-as based onthe lexical properties of both the head andthe possessor:Construct-state not ok for possessive rela-tion with proper name:?
Simlat Hanah-  ?
dress-cs HanahDouble possessive ok for person names andpossessor:Simlatah Sel Hanah - dress-cs-her of HanahDouble possessive not ok for non-possessiverelation:* Simlatah Sel ha-Sabat* dress-cs-her of the-ShabatSimilarly, the possible realizations of thepartitive are controlled by the featurerealize-partitive-as: of or quantifier.Quantifiers are classifed along the por-tion/amount dimension.
This system canbe realized either lexically by quantifiersmarked as partitive, or by using an explicitpartitive syntactic structure X rae-Y/X ofY.Because the realization grammar uses theknowledge of which word realizes which func-tion, the distinction among partitive quan-tifiers, amount quantifiers and determinerspredicts the order of the words in the He-brew NP.
The standard order is:\[partitive determiner amount head\]As noted above, only partitives can en-ter into recursive structures, in both Hebrew149and English.
Accordingly, our input specifi-cation language nforces the constraint thatonly a single amount and a single identifica-tion feature can be present simultaneously.Whenever a partitive quantifier is desired,the input specification must include a ref-setfeature instead of the head.
This enforcesthe constraint that partitives yield recursiveconstructs, similarly to Mel'cuk's elective-relation.
Such recursive structures are illus-trated in the following example:wasarah me-col ha-maffgynymten off-all the-demonstratorsTen off all off the demonstratorscat npcardinal valuetotal10 \]\[ exref-set ref-set definite yesThe input is abstract enough to let the re-alization grammar decide whether to buildan explicitly partitive construction.
This de-cision depends on the lexical features of therealizing quantifiers and is different in En-glish and Hebrew, as discussed above.Additional realization rules take into ac-count additional co-occurrence r strictions.For example, in Hebrew, if the "portion"part is modified with adjectives, then an ex-plicitly partitive construction must be used:ha-roy ha-gadoi mi-beyn ha-yeladymthe-most the-big of-from the-childrenThe vast majority of the childrenIn summary, we have presented a set ofinput features for complex NPs that includethe abstract possessor and re.f-set features.These two features can be mapped to dif-ferent syntactic slots.
Realization rules inthe grammar control the mapping of thesefeatures based on complex co-occurrence r -strictions.
They also take into account helexical properties of specific quantifiers anddeterminers when deciding whether to useexplicitly partitive constructions.
Finally,the input structure nforces that only parti-tive relations can enter into recursive struc-tures.
Both HUGG in Hebrew and SURGEin English have been adapted to support hismodified input specification.4 ConclusionTo evaluate whether the proposed inputstructure is appropriate as a bilingual spec-ification, we have tested our generation sys-tem on a set of 100 sample inputs for com-plex NPs in English and Hebrew.
In theexperiment, we only translated open-classlexical items, thus following the "ideal sce-nario" discussed in the Introduction.
De-spite the divergences between their surfacesyntactic structure, the input structures pro-duced valid complex NPs in both languagesin all cases.We identified the following open problemsin the resulting sample: the selection of theunmarked realization option and the deter-mination of the default value of the definitefeature remain difficult and vary a lot be-tween the two languages.This case study has demonstrated that themethodology of contrastive analysis of simi-lar semantic relations in two languages withdissimilar syntactic realizations i a fruitfulway to define a well-founded input specifica-tion language for syntactic realization.ReferencesM.
Azar.
1985.
Classification of Hebrewcompounds.
In R. Nir, editor, AcademicTeaching off Contemporary Hebrew.
Inter-national Center for University Teachingof Jewish Civilization, Jerusalem.
(in He-brew).R.
Barzilay, K. McKeown, and M. Elhadad.1999.
Information fusion in the context ofmulti-document summarization.
In Pro-ceeding off ACL '99, Maryland, June.
ACL.J.A.
Bateman, C.M.
Matthiessen, K. Nanri,and L. Zeng.
1991.
The re-use of linguisticresources across languages in multilingualgeneration components.
In I JCAI 1991,pages 966-971, Sydney, Australia.
MorganKaufmann.J.A.
Bateman, 1997.
KPML Devel-opment Environment: multilinguallinguistic resource development andsentence generation.
GMD, IPSI,Darmstadt, Germany, release 1.1 edi-150tion.
www.darmstadt.gmd.de/publish/komet/kpml.html.R.
Aronson Berman.
1978.
Modern HebrewStructure.
University Publishing Projects,Tel Aviv.H.
Borer.
1988.
On morphological paral-lelism between compounds and constructs.In Geert Jooij and Jaap Van Marle, ed-itors, Yearbook of Morphology 1, pages45-65.
Foris publications, Dordrecht, Hol-land.E.
Borochovsky.
1986.
The hierarchy ofmodifiers after the noun.
Leshonenu, 50.
(in Hebrew).S.
Busemann and H. Horacek.
1998.
A flex-ible shallow approach to text generation.In INLG'98, pages 238-247, Niagara-on-the-Lake, Canada, August.Y.
Dahan-Netzer and M. Elhadad.
1998a.Generating determiners and quantifiersin Hebrew.
In Proceeding of Workshopon Computational Approaches to SemiticLanguages, Montreal, Canada, August.ACL.Y.
Dahan-Netzer and M. Elhadad.
1998b.Generation of noun compounds in He-brew: Can syntactic knowledge be fullyencapsulated?
In INLG'98, pages 168-177, Niagara-on-the-Lake, Canada, Au-gust.Y.
Dahan-Netzer.
1997.
HUGG -Unification-based Grammar for theGeneration of Hebrew noun phrases.Master's thesis, Ben Gurion University,Beer Sheva Israel.
(in Hebrew).E.
Doron.
1991.
The NP structure.
InU.
Ornan, E. Doron, and A. Ariely, ed-itors, Hebrew Computational Linguistics.Ministry of Science.
(in Hebrew).B.
Dorr.
1994.
Machine translation diver-gences: A formal description and proposedsolution.
Journal of Computational Lin-guistics, 20(4):597-663.M.
Elhadad and J. Robin.
1996.
Anoverview of SURGE: a re-usable compre-hensive syntactic realization component.In INLG'96, Brighton, UK.
(demonstra-tion session).M.
Elhadad.
1996.
Lexical choice for com-plex noun phrases: Structure, modifiersand determiners.
Machine Translation,11:159-184.R.
Gedalia.
1996.
Automatic generation ofbusiness letters: Combining word-basedand template-based nlg through the dis-tinct handling of referring expressions.Master's thesis, Ben Gurion University,Beer Sheva Israel.
(in Hebrew).L.
Glinert.
1989.
The Grammar of ModernHebrew.
Cambridge University.M.
A. K. Halliday.
1994.
An Introductionto Functional Grammar.
Edward Arnold,London, second edition.R.S.
Jackendoff.
1990.
Semantic Structures.MIT Press, Cambridge MA.B.
Lavoie and O. Rambow.
1997.
A fastand portable realizer for text generationsystems.
In ANLP'97, Washington, DC.www.cogentex.com/systems/realpro.J.N.
Levi.
1976.
A semantic analysis of He-brew compound nominals.
In Peter Cole,editor, Studies in Modern Hebrew syn-tax and semantics.
North-Holland, Ams-terdam.I.A.
Mel'cuk and N.V. Perstov.
1987.Surface-syntax of English, a formal modelin the Meaning Text Theory.
Benjamins,Amsterdam/Philadelphia.U.
Ornan.
1964.
The Nominal Phrase inModern Hebrew.
Ph.D. thesis, HebrewUniversity, Jerusalem.
(in Hebrew).R.
Quirk, S. Greenbaum, G. Leech, andJ.
Svartvik.
1985.
A comprehensive gram-mar of the English language.
Longman.C.
Seikevicz.
1979.
The Possessive Con-struction in Modern Hebrew: A Sociolin-guistic Approach.
Ph.D. thesis, George-town University, Washington D.C.T.
Winograd.
1983.
Language as a Cogni-tive Process: Syntax, volume I. Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA.D.
Yzhar.
1993.
Computational grammarfor noun phrases in Hebrew.
Master's the-sis, Hebrew University, Jerusalem.
In He-brew.151
