Using Linguistic Knowledge in Automatic AbstractingHoracio SaggionDdpartement d'Informatique et Recherche OpdrationnelleUniversitd e MontrdalCP 6128, Succ Centre-VilleMontrdal, Qudbec, Canada, H3C 3J7Fax: +1-514-343-5834saggion@iro, umontreal, caAbst rac tWe present work on the automatic generation ofshort indicative-informative abstracts of scien-tific and technical articles.
The indicative partof the abstract identifies the topics of the docu-ment while the informative part of the abstractelaborate some topics according to the reader'sinterest by motivating the topics, describing en-tities and defining concepts.
We have definedour method of automatic abstracting by study-ing a corpus professional bstracts.
The methodalso considers the reader's interest as essentialin the process of abstracting.1 IntroductionThe idea of producing abstracts or summariesby automatic means is not new, severalmethodologies have been proposed and testedfor automatic abstracting including amongothers: word distribution (Luhn, 1958); rhetor-ical analysis (Marcu, 1997); and probabilisticmodels (Kupiec et al, 1995).
Even thoughsome approaches produce acceptable abstractsfor specific tasks, it is generally agreed thatthe problem of coherent selection and expres-sion of information in automatic abstractingremains (Johnson, 1995).
One of the mainproblems is how to ensure the preservation ofthe message of the original text if sentencespicked up from distant parts of the source textare juxtaposed and presented to the reader.Rino and Scott (1996) address the problem ofcoherent selection for gist preservation, howeverthey depend on the availability of a complexmeaning representation which in practice isdifficult to obtain from the raw text.In our work, we are concerned with the auto-matic generation ofshort indicative-informativeabstract for technical and scientific papers.
Webase our methodology on a study of a corpus ofprofessional bstracts and source or parent doc-uments.
Our method also considers the reader'sinterest as essential in the process of abstract-ing.2 The  CorpusThe production of professional bstracts haslong been object of study (Cremmins, 1982).
Inparticular, it has been argued that structuralparts of parent documents such as introduc-tions and conclusions are important in order toobtain the information for the topical sentence(Endres-Niggemeyer et al, 1995).
We have beeninvestigating which kind of information is re-ported in professional bstracts as well as wherethe information lies in parent documents andhow it is conveyed.
In Figure 1, we show a pro-fessional bstract from the "Computer and Con-trol Abstracts" journal, this kind of abstractaims to alert readers about the existence of anew article in a particular field.
The examplecontains information about the author's inter-est, the author's development and the overviewof the parent document.
All the informationreported in this abstract was found in the in-troduction of its parent document.In order to study the aforementioned aspects,we have manually aligned sentences of 100 pro-fessional bstracts with sentences ofparent doc-uments containing the information reported inthe abstract.
In a previous tudy (Saggion andLapalme, 1998), we have shown that 72% of theinformation i  professional bstracts lies in ti-tles, captions, first sections and last sections ofparent documents while the rest of the informa-tion was found in author abstracts and othersections.
These results uggest that some struc-tural sections are particularly important in or-der to select information for an abstract but also596The production of understandable and maintainable expert systems using the current gen-eration of multiparadigm development tools is addressed.
This issue is discussed in thecontext of COMPASS, a large and complex expert system that helps maintain an elec-tronic telephone xchange.
As part of the work on COMPASS, several techniques to aidmaintainability were developed and successfully implemented.
Some of the techniques werenew, others were derived from traditional software ngineering but modified to fit the rapidprototyping approach of expert system building.
An overview of the COMPASS project ispresented, software problem areas are identified, solutions adopted in the final system aredescribed and how these solutions can be generalized is discussed.Figure h Professional Abstract: CCA 58293 (1990 vol.25 no.293).
Parent Document: "Maintain-ability Techniques in Developing Large Expert Systems."
D.S.
Prerau et al IEEE Expert, vol.5,no.3, p.71-80, June 1990.that it is not enough to produce a good infor-mative abstract (i.e.
we hardly find the resultsof an investigation i  the introduction of a re-search paper).3 Conceptual and LinguisticI n fo rmat ionThe complex process of scientific discoverythat starts with the identification of a researchproblem and eventually ends with an answer tothe problem (Bunge, 1967), would generally bedisseminated in a technical or scientific paper:a complex record of knowledge containing,among others, references to the following con-cepts the author, the author's affiliation, othersauthors, the authors' development, the authors'interest, the research article and its components(sections, figures, tables, etc.
), the problem un-der consideration, the authors' solution, others'solution, the topics of the research article, themotivation for the study, the importance of thestudy, what the author found, what the authorthink, what others have done, and so forth.Those concepts are systematically selected forinclusion in professional abstracts.
We havenoted that some of them are lexically markedwhile others appear as arguments of predicatesconveying specific relations in the domain ofdiscourse.
For example, in an expression suchas "We found significant reductions in ..." theverb "find" takes as an argument a result andin the expression "The lack of a library severelylimits the impact of..." the verb "limit" entailsa problem.We have used our corpus and a set of morethan 50 complete technical articles in orderto deduce a conceptual model and to gatherlexical information conveying concepts andrelations.
Although our conceptual model doesnot deal with all the intricacies of the domain,we believe it covers most of the important in-formation relevant for an abstract.
In order toobtain linguistic expressions marking conceptsand relation, we have tagged our corpus witha POS tagger (Foster, 1991) and we have useda thesaurus (Vianna, 1980) to semanticallyclassify the lexical items (most of them arepolysemous).
Figure 2, gives an overview ofsome concepts, relations and lexical items sofar identified.The information we collected allow the defini-tion of patterns of two kinds: (i) linguistic pat-terns for the identification of noun groups andverb groups; and (ii) domain specific patternsfor the identification of entities and relationsin the conceptual model This allows for theidentification of complex noun groups such as"The TIGER condition monitoring system" inthe sentence "The TIGER gas turbine conditionmonitoring system addresses the performancemonitoring aspects" and the interpretation ofstrings such as "University of Montreal" as areference to an institution and verb forms suchas "have presented" as a reference to a predi-cate possibly introducing the topic of the docu-ment.
The patterns have been specified accord-ing to the linguistic constructions found in thecorpus and then expanded to cope with othervalid linguistic patterns, though not observedin our data.597Concepts/Relations Explanation Lexical Itemsmake know The author mark the topic of the document describe, expose, present, ...study The author is engaged in study analyze, examine, explore, ...express interest The author is interested in address, concern, interest,...experiment The author is engaged in experimentation experiment, test, try out, ...identify goal The author identify the research goal necessary, focus on, ...explain The author gives explanations explain, interpret, justify,...define a concept is being defined define, be, ...describe entity is being described compose, form, ...authors The authors of the article We, I, author,...paper The technical article article, here, paper, study, ...institutions authors' affiliation University, UniversitY, ...other researchers Other researchers Proper Noun (Year), ...problem The problem under consideration difficulty, issue, problem, ...method The method used in the study equipment, methodology, ...results The results obtained result, find, reveal, ...'hypotheses The assumptions ofthe author assumption, hypothesis ....Figure 2: Some Conceptual nd Linguistic Information4 Generating AbstractsIt is generally accepted that there is no suchthing as an ideal abstract, but different kinds ofabstracts for different purposes and tasks (McK-eown et al, 1998).
We aim at the generationof a type of abstract well recognized in the lit-erature: short indicative-informative abstracts.The indicative part identifies the topics of thedocument (what the authors present, discuss,address, etc.)
while the informative part elabo-rates some topics according to the reader's inter-est by motivating the topics, describing entities,defining concepts and so on.
This kind of ab-stract could be used in tasks such as accessingthe content of the document and deciding if theparent document is worth reading.
Our methodof automatic abstracting relies on:?
the identification of sentences containingdomain specific linguistic patterns;?
the instantiation of templates using the se-lected sentences;?
the identification of the topics of the docu-ment and;?
the presentation of the information usingre-generation techniques.The templates represent different kinds ofinformation we have identified as important forinclusion in an abstract.
They are classified in:indicative templates used to represent con-cepts and relations usually present in indicativeabstracts uch as "the topic of the document","the structure of the document", "the identifi-cation of main entities", "the problem", "theneed for research", "the identification of thesolution", "the development of the author"and so on; and informative templates rep-resenting concepts that appear in informativeabstracts uch as "entity/concept definition","entity/concept description", "entity/conceptrelevance", "entity/concept function", "themotivation for the work", "the descriptionof the experiments", "the description of themethodology", "the results", "the main con-clusions" and so on.
Associated with eachtemplate is a set of rules used to identifypotential sentences which could be used toinstantiate the template.
For example, therules for the topic of the document emplate,specify to search the category make know in theintroduction and conclusion of the paper whilethe rules for the entity description specify thesearch for the describe category in all the text.Only sentences matching specific patterns areretained in order to instantiate the templatesand this reduces in part the problem of poly-semy of the lexical items.598The overall process of automatic abstractingshown in Figure 3 is composed of the followingsteps:Pre-processing and Interpretation:The raw text is tagged and transformed in astructured representation allowing the followingprocesses to access the structure of the text(words, groups of words, titles, sentences,paragraphs, sections, and so on).
Domainspecific transducers are applied in order toidentify possible concepts in the discoursedomain (such as the authors, the paper, ref-erences to other authors, institutions and soon) and linguistic transducers are applied inorder to identify noun groups and verb groups.Afterwards, semantic tags marking discoursedomain relations and concepts are added to thedifferent elements of the structure.Additionally, the process extracts noun groups,computes noun group distribution (assigninga weight to each noun group) and generatesthe topical structure of the paper: a structurewith n + 1 components where n is the numberof sections in the document.
Component i(0 < i < n) contains the noun groups extractedfrom the title of section i (0 indicates the title ofthe document).
The structure is used in the se-lection of the content for the indicative abstract.Indicative Selection: Its function is toidentify potential topics of the document and toconstruct a pool of "propositions" introducingthe topics.
The indicative templates are usedto this end: sentences are selected, filteredand used to instantiate the templates usingpatterns identified during the analysis of thecorpus.
The instantiated templates obtained inthis step constitute the indicative data base.Each template contains, in addition to theirspecific slots, the following: the topic candidateslot which is filled in with the noun groups ofthe sentence used for instantiation, the weightslot filled in with the sum of the weights ofthe noun groups in the topic candidate slotand, the position slot filled in with the positionof the sentence (section number and sentencenumber) which instantiated the template.
InFigure 4, the "topic of the document" templateappears instantiated using the sentence "thispaper describes the Active Telepresence Systemwith an integrated AR system to enhancethe operator's ense of presence in hazardousenvironments.
"In order to select he content for the indicativeabstract the system looks for a "match" be-tween the topical structure and the templatesin the indicative data base: the system triesall the matches between noun groups in thetopical structure and noun groups in the topiccandidate slots.
One template is selected foreach component of the topical structure: thetemplate with more matches.
The selectedtemplates constitute the content of the indica-tive abstract and the noun groups in the topiccandidate slots constitute the potential topics.Informative Selection: this processaims to confirm which of the potential top-ics computed by the indicative selection areactual topics (i.e.
topics the system couldinformatively expand according to the readerinterest) and produces a pool of "proposi-tions" elaborating the topics.
All informativetemplates are used in this step, the processconsiders sentences containing the potentialtopics and matching informative patterns.
Theinstantiated informative templates constitutethe informative data base and the potentialtopics appearing in the informative templatesform the topics of the document.Generation: This is a two step process.First, in the indicative generation, the tem-plates selected by the indicative selection arepresented to the reader in a short text whichcontains the topics identified by the informativeselection and the kind of information the usercould ask for.
Second, in the informativegeneration, the reader selects some of thetopics asking for specific types of information.The informative templates associated with theselected topics are used to present he requiredinformation to the reader using expansionoperators such as the "description" operatorwhose effect is to present he description of theselected topic.
For example, if the "topic ofthe document" template (Figure 4) is selectedby the informative selection the followingindicative text will be presented:5991NOUN GROUPSJPOTENTLAL TOPICSINPORMATIVB~ O NRAW ~I PRE PROCESSINO~ITIERI~RTA'r\[ONTEXT ~ A T I O N_ I INDICATIVE1TOPICAL $TRUCrUR~INDICA"IIVlg (~0~1 i .
.
.
.
.
.INDICATIVEII~PORMATIVB DATA BASE ~ USER l "~ .
.
.
.
INDICATIVE ABSTRACTINPORMA'nVE ~ ~'i GENEZ~ATION $1~..EC'I'~D TOPICStINPORMATIVE ABSTRACTFigure 3: System ArchitectureTemplates and Instantiated SlotsTopic ol the document template Entity description templateMain predicate: "describes": DESCRIBEWhere: nilWho: "This paper": PAPERWhat:  "the Active Telepresence System with anintegrated AR system to enhance the operator'ssense of presence in hazardous environments" "Position: Number 1 from "Conclusion" SectionTopic candidates: "the Active Telepresence Sys-tem", "an integrated AR system", "the operator'ssense", "presence", hazardous environments"Weight :...Main predicate: "consist of" : CONSIST OFTopical entity: "The Active Telepresence Sys-tem"Related entities: "three distinct elements", thestereo head", "its controller", the display device"Position: Number 4 from "The Active Telepres-ence System" SectionWeight:...Figure 4: Some Instantiated Templates for the article "Augmenting reality for telerobotics: unifying realand virtual worlds" J. Pretlove, Industrial Robot, voi.25, issue 6, 1998.Describes the Active Telepresence Systemwith an integrated AR system to enhancethe operator's sense of presence in hazardousenvironments.Topics: Active Telepresence System (de-scription); AR system (description); AR(definition)If the reader choses to expand the descriptionof the topic "Active Telepresence System", thefollowing text will be presented:The Active Telepresence System consists ofthree distinct elements: the stereo head, itscontroller and the display device.The pre-processing and interpretation stepaxe currently implemented.
We axe testing the600processes of indicative and informative selectionand we are developping the generation step.5 DiscussionIn this paper, we have presented a new methodof automatic abstracting based on the re-sults obtained from the study of a corpusof professional abstracts and parent docu-ments.
In order to implement the model, werely on techniques in finite state processing,instantiation of templates and re-generationtechniques.
Paice and Jones (1993) havealready used templates representing specificinformation in a restricted omain in orderto generate indicative abstracts.
Instead, weaim at the generation of indicative-informativeabstracts for domain independent texts.
Radevand McKeown (1998) also used instantiatedtemplates, but in order to produce summariesof multiple documents.
They focus on thegeneration of the text while we are address-ing the overall process of automatic abstracting.We are testing our method using long tech-nical articles found on the "Web."
Some out-standing issues axe: the problem of co-reference,the problem of polysemy of the lexical items,the re-generation techniques and the evaluationof the methodology which will be based on thejudgment of readers.AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank my adviser, Prof. GuyLapalme for encouraging me to present hiswork.
This work is supported by Agence Cana-dienne de D~veloppement International (ACDI)and Ministerio de Educaci6n de la Naci6n de laRepdblica Argentina, Resoluci6n 1041/96.ReferencesM.
Bunge.
1967.
Scienti-fc Research I. TheSearch for System.
Springer-Verlag New YorkInc.E.T.
Cremmins.
1982.
The Art o-f Abstracting.ISI PRESS.B.
Endres-Niggemeyer, E. Maier, and A. Sigel.1995.
How to implement a naturalistic modelof abstracting: Four core working steps of anexpert abstractor.
Information Processing ?JManagement, 31(5):631-674.G.
Foster.
1991.
Statistical exical disam-biguation.
Master's thesis, McGill University,School of Computer Science.F.
Johnson.
1995.
Automatic abstracting re-search.
Library Review, 44(8):28-36.J.
Kupiec, J. Pedersen, and F. Chen.
1995.
Atrainable document summarizer.
In Proc.
o-fthe 18th ACM-SIGIR Conference, pages 68-73.H.P.
Luhn.
1958.
The automatic creation of lit-erature abstracts.
IBM Journal o?
ResearchDevelopment, 2(2):159-165.D.
Marcu.
1997.
From discourse structures totext summaries.
In The Proceedings of theA CL'97/EA CL'97 Workshop on IntelligentScalable Text Summarization, pages 82-88,Madrid, Spain, July 11.K.
McKeown, D. Jordan, and V. Hatzivas-siloglou.
1998.
Generating patient-specificsummaries of on-line literature.
In Intelli-gent Text Summarization.
Papers from the1998 AAAI  Spring Symposium.
Technical Re-port SS-98-06, pages 34-43, Standford (CA),USA, March 23-25.
The AAAI Press.C.D.
Paice and P.A.
Jones.
1993.
The iden-tification of important concepts in highlystructured technical papers.
In R. Korfhage,E.
Rasmussen, and P. Willett, editors, Proc.o-f the 16th ACM-SIGIR Conference, pages69-78.D.R.
Radev and K.R.
McKeown.
1998.
Gener-ating natural language summaries from mul-tiple on-line sources.
Computational Linguis-tics, 24(3):469-500.L.H.M.
Rino and D. Scott.
1996.
A discoursemodel for gist preservation.
In D.L.
Borgesand C.A.A.
Kaestner, editors, Proceedings o-fthe 13th Brazilian Symposium on ArtificialIntelligence, SBIA '96, Advances in ArtificialIntelligence, pages 131-140.
Springer, Octo-ber 23-25, Curitiba, Brazil.H.
Saggion and G. Lapalme.
1998.
Where doesinformation come from?
corpus analysis forautomatic abstracting.
In RIFRA'98.
Ren-contre Internationale sur l'extraction le Fil-trate et le Rdsumd Automatique, pages 72-83.F.
de M. Vianna, editor.
1980.
Roger's II.
TheNew Thesaurus.
Houghton Mifflin Company,Boston.601
