Measuring Conformity to Discourse Routinesin Decision-Making InteractionsSherri L. Condon Claude G. ~ech William R. EdwardsDepartment of English Department of Psychology Center for Advanced Computer Studiescondo@usl.edu cech@usl.cdu wre@cacs.usl.cduUniversity of Southwestern Louisiana/Universit~ desAcadiensLafayette, LA 70504AbstractIn an effort to develop measures of discourselevel management strategies, this study examinesa measure of the degree to which decision-making interactions consist of sequences ofutterance functions that are linked in a decision-making routine.
The measure isapplied to 100dyadic interactions elicited in both face-to-faceand computer-mediated nvironments withsystematic variation of task complexity andmessage-window size.
Every utterance intheinteractions is coded according to a system thatidentifies decision-makmg functions and otherroutine functions of utterances.
Markovanalyses of the coded utterances make it possibleto measure the relative fi'equencies with whichsequences of 2 and 3 utterances trace a path ina Markov model of the decision routine.
Theseproportions uggest hat interactions in allconditions adhere to the model, although we findgreater conformity in the computer-mediatedenvironments, which is probably due toincreased processing and attmfional demands forgreater efficiency, The results suggest thatmeasures based on Markov analyses of codedinteractions can provide useful measures forcomparing discourse level properties, forcorrelating discourse f atures with other textualfeatures, and for analyses of discoursemanagement strategies.IntroductionIncreasingly, research in computationallinguistics has contributed to knowledge aboutthe organization and processing of humaninteraction through quantitative analyses ofannotated texts and dialogues (e.g.
Carletta etal., 1997; Cohen et al, 1990, Maier et al,1997; Nakatani et al, 1995; Passonneau,1996; Walker, 1996).
This program ofresearch presents opportunities toexamine therelation between linguistic form and pragmaticfunctions using large corpora to testhypotheses and to detect covariance amongdiscourse features.
For example, Di Eugenioet al (1997) demonstrate that utterancescoded as acceptances were more likely tocorefer to an item in a previous turn.
Groszand Hirschberg (1992) investigate intonationalcorrelates of discourse structure.
Theseresearchers recognize that discourse-levelstructures and strategies influence syntacticand phonological encoding.
The regularitiesobserved can be exploited to resolve languageprocessing problems uch as ambiguity andcoreference, to integrate high level planningwith encoding and interpretation strategies, orto refine statistics-based systems.In order to identify and utilize discourse-based structures and strategies, researchersneed methods of linking observable forms withdiscourse functions, and our focus ondiscourse management strategies hasmotivated similar goals.
Condon & (~ech(1996a,b) use annotated decision-makinginteractions to investigate properties ofdiscourse routines and to examine the effectsof communication features uch as screen sizeon computer-mediated interactions (~ech &Condon, 1997).
In this paper we present amethod for measuring the degree to which an238interaction conforms to a discourse routine,which not only allows more refined analyses ofroutine behavior, but also permits fine-grainedcomparison of discourses obtained underdifferent conditions.In our research, discourse routines haveemerged as a fundamental strategy for managingverbal interaction, resulting in the kind ofbehavior that researchers label adjacencypaJrssuch as question/answer or request/complianceas well as more complex sequences of functions.Discourse routines occur when a particular actor function is routinely continued by another,and as "predictable defaults," routinecontinuations maximize fficiency by requiringminimal encoding while receiving highestpriority among possible interpretations.Moreover, discourse routines can be exploitedby failing to conform to routine expectations(Schegloff, 1986).
Consequently, interactionswill not necessarily conform to routines at everyopportunity, which raises the problem ofmeasuring the extent o which they do conformCondon et al (1997) develop a measurebased on Markov analyses of coded interactions,?
and the measure is employed here with a largercorpus in which students engage in a morecomplex decision-making task.
These measuresprovide evidence for the claim that participantsin computer-mediated decision-makinginteractions rely on a simple decision routinemore than participants in face-to-face decision-making interactions.
The measures suggest thatconformity to the routine is not strongly affectedby any of the other variables examined in thestudy (task complexity, screen size), eventhough some participants in the computer-mediated conditions of the more complex taskadopted turn management strategies that wouldbe untenable in face-to-face interaction.Data CollectionThe initial corpus of 32 interactions involvingsimple decision-making tasks was obtainedunder conditions which were similar, but notidentical, to the conditions under which the 68interactions involving a more complex taskwere obtained.
One obvious difference is thatparticipants in the first study completed 2simple tasks planning a social event (a getawayweekend, abarbecue), while participants in thesecond study completed a single, morecomplex task: planning a televised ceremonyto present the MTV music video awards.Furthermore, all interactions in the first studywere mixed sex pairs, whereas interactions inthe MTV study include mixed and same sexpairs.
All participants were native Englishspeakers at the University of SouthwesternLouisiana who received credit in IntroductoryPsychology classes for their participation.In both studies, the dyads who interactedface-to-face sat together at a table with a taperecorder, while the pairs who interactedelectronically were seated at microcomputersin separate rooms.
The latter communicatedby typing messages which appeared on thesender's monitor as they were typed, but didnot appear on the receiver's monitor until thesender pressed a SEND key.
The soft-wareincorporated this feature to provide well-defined turns and to make it possible tocapture and change messages in future studies.In addition, to minimize message permanenceand more closely approximate face-to-faceinteraction, text.
on the screen is alwaysproduced by only one participant at a time.In the original study, the message areawas approximately 4 lines long, and it was notclear how much this factor influenced ourresults.
Consequently, in the MTV study, themessage area of the screen was either 4, 10, or18 lines.
Other differences in the computer-mediated conditions of the two studies includedifferences in the arrangement of informationon the screen such as a brief description of theMTV problem which remained at the bottomof the screen.
We also used an answer form inthe first study, but not the second.
Moredetails about he communication systems in thetwo studies are provided Condon& ~ech(1996a) and (~ech & Condon (1998).239Data  Ana lys i sFace-to-face interactions were transcribed fromaudio recordings into computer files using a setof conventions established in a training manual(Condon & Cech, 1992).
All interactions weredivided into utterance units defined as singleclauses with all complements and adjuncts,including sentential complements andsubordinate clauses.
Interjections like yeah, now,well, and ok were considered to be separateutterances due to the salience of theirinteractional, as opposed to propositional,content.The coding system includes categories forrequest routines and a decision routine involving3 acts or functions (Condon, 1986, Condon &(~ech, 1996a,b).
We believe that the decisionroutine observed in the interactions instantiatesa more general schema for decision-making thatmay be routinized in various ways.
In theabstract schema, each decision has a goal;proposals to satisfy the goal must be provided,these proposals must be evaluated, and theremust be conventions for determining, from theevaluations, whether the proposals are adoptedas decisions.
Routines make it possible to mapfrom the general schema to sequences of routineutterance functions.
Default principlesassociated with routines can determine theencoding of these routine functions in sequencesof utterances.According to the model we are developing,a sequence of routine continuations is mappedinto a sequence of adjacent utterances inone-to-one fashion by default.
If the routine specifiesthat a routine continuation must be provided bya different speaker, as in adjacency pairs, thenthe default is for the different speaker to producethe routine continuation immediately after thefirst pair-part.
Since these are defaults, we canexpect that hey may be weakened or overriddenin specific ircumstances.
At the same time, ifour reasoning is correct, we should be able tofind evidence of routines operating inthe mannerwe have described.
(1) provides an excerpt from a computer-mediated interaction in which utterances arelabeled to illustrate the routine sequence.
P1and P2 designate first and second speaker (anutterance that is a continuation by the samespeaker is not annotated for speaker).
(1) a. P1: \[orientation\] who should win bestAlternative ideo.b.
P2: \[suggestion\] Pres.
of the united statesc.
PI: \[agreement\] okd.
P2: \[orientation\] who else shouldnominate.e.
\[suggestion\] bush.
goo-goodollsoasisf.
Pl: \[agreement\] sounds good, \[...1weand(2) provides an annotated excerpt from aface-to-face interaction.
(2) a. Pl: \[orientationl who's going to win?b.
\[suggestion\] Mariah?c.
P2: \[agreement\] yeahprobablyd.
PI: \[orientation\] alright Mariah winswhatsong?e.
P2: \[suggestion\] uh Fantasy or whatever?f.
Pl: \[agreement\] that's it that's the samesong I was thinking ofg.
\[orientation\] alright alternative?h.
\[suggestion\] Alanis?Coded as "Orients Suggestion," orientations,like (la,2a) establish goals for each decision,while suggestions like (lb,e) and (2b, e,h)formulate proposals within these constraints.Agreements like (lc,f) and (2c,f), which arecoded "Agrees with Suggestion," anddisagreements ("Disagrees with Suggestion")evaluate a proposal and establish consensus.The routine does not specify that a suggestionwhich routinely continues an orientation mustbe produced by a different speaker: thesuggestion may be elicited from a differentspeaker, as in (la,b) and (2d,e) or it may beprovided by the same speaker, as in (ld,e) and(2a,b).
However, an agreement that routinelycontinues a suggestion is produced by adifferent speaker, as (lb,c), (le,f), (2b,c) and(2e,f) attest.Other outine functions are also classifiedin the coding system.
Utterances coded as"Requests Action" propose behaviors in thespeech event such as (3).240(3) a. well ist your two down there (oral)b. ok, now we need to decide another band toper form (computer-mediated)c. Give some suggestions(computer-mediated)metalanguage, and orientationssomewhat less reliable.ResultswereUtterances coded as "Requests Information"seek information ot already provided in thediscourse, as in (la,2a).
Utterances that seekconfirmation or verification of providedinformation, however, are coded as "RequestsValidation."
The category "Elaborates-Repeats" serves as a catch-all for utteranceswith comprehensible content that do notfunction as requests or suggestions or asresponses to these.Two categories are included to assessaffective functions: "Requests/Offers PersonalInformation" for personal comments notrequired to complete the task and "JokesExaggerates" for utterances that inject humor.The category "Discourse Marker" is used for alimited set of forms: Ok, well, anyway, so, now,let's see, and alright.
Another category,Metalanguage, was used to code utterancesabout he talk such as (3b,c).In the initial corpus, the categoriesdescribed above are organized into 3 classes:MOVE, RESPONSE, and OTHER, and eachutterance was assigned a function in each ofthese three groups of categories.
In casesinvolving no clear function in a class, theutterance was assigned a No Clear code.
Acomplete list of categories i  presented at thebottom of Figure 1 and more completedescriptions can be found in Condon and Cech(1992).
In the modified system used to code theMTV corpus, the criteria for classifying all ofthese categories remain the same.The data were coded by students whoreceived course credit as research assistants.Coders were trained by coding and discussingexcerpts from the data.
Reliability tests wereadministered frequently during the codingprocess.
Reliability scores were high (80-100%agreement with a standard) for frequentlyoccurring move and response functions,discourse markers, and the two categoriesdesigned to identify affective functions.
Scoresfor infrequent move and response functions,In the initial study, the 16 face-to-faceinteractions produced a corpus of 4141utterances (ave. 259 per discourse), while the16 computer-mediated interactions consistedof 918 utterances (ave. 57).
In the MTVstudy, the 8 face-to-face interactions produced3593 utterances (ave. 449), the 20interactions in the 4-line condition included2556 utterances (ave. 128), the 20 interactionsin the 10-line condition produced 3041utterances (ave. 152) and the 20 interactions inthe 18-line condition included 2498 utterances(ave. 125).
Clearly, completing the morecomplex MTV task required more talk.Figure 1 presents proportions of utterancefunctions averaged per interaction for eachmodality in the initial study.
Analyses ofvariance that treated discourse (dyad) as therandom variable were performed on the datawithin each of the three broad categories,excluding the No Clear MOVE/RESPONSE/OTHER functions where inclusion wouldforce levels of the between-discourse factor tothe same value.
We found no significant effectof problem t?/pe or order (for details seeCondon & Cech, 1996).
However, theinteraction of function type with discoursemodality was significant at the .001-level forall three (MOVE, RESPONSE, OTHER)function classes.
Tests of simple effects ofmodality type for each function indicated thatonly four proportions were identical in the twomodalities: Requests Validation in the MOVEclass, Disagrees in the RESPONSE class, and,in the OTHER class, Personal Information andJokes-Exaggerates.Figure 2 presents the proportions ofutterance functions for the MTV corpus usingthe same categories of functions as in Figure 1.The similarity of the results in the two figuresis remarkable, especially consideringdifferences in methods of data collectiondescribed above.
First, it can be observed that241I o00.2."
: oo .1 .. \o I l I I I I !
IMOVES RESPONSES OTHER6i .
fI IiA dv ,sos c. Ao dt is i,MOVES RESPONSES OTHERMOVE FUNCTIONSSA Suggests ActionRA Requests ActionRV Requests ValidationRI Requests laformationER Elaborates, RepeatsOTHER FUNCTIONSDM Discourse MarkerMI, MetalanguageOS Orients SuggestionPl Personal InformationJig Jokes, ExaggeratesRESPONSE FUNCTIONSAS Agrees with SuggestionDS Disagrees with SuggestionCR Complies with RequestAO Acknowledges OnlyFigure 1: Propo~ons of code categories inface-to-face (squares) and computer-mea~ated int ractions(asterisks) in the original studythe screen size in the MTV-condition did notinfluence the proportions of functions in the 4-line and 18-line conditions.
The results in boththose conditions are nearly identical.
Second,similar differences are obtained between face-to-face and computer-mediated conditions in bothcorpora.
For example, all of the computer-mediated interactions produced suggestions ata proportion of approximately .3,while the face-to-face interactions produced suggestions atcloser to half that frequency.
Similar patterns ofdifference between face-to-face and computer-Figure 2: Proportions of code categories inface-to-face (Mangles), 4-line (squares) and 18-line(circles) conditionsmediated conditions occur in both corpora forthe 3 types of requests in the coding system,tOO.We anticipated an increase in discoursemanagement functions due to the complexityof the task, and the increase in metalanguagefrom .05 to.
15 in the face-to-face conditionssuggests hat he more complex task pressuredparticipants to engage in more explicitmanagement strategies.
In the computer-mediated interactions, the proportion offunctions coded as metalanguage alsoincreases with the complexity of the task,though not as much.
The greater proportionof discourse markers in the computer-mediatedinteractions also reflects an increase indiscourse management activity for the morecomplex task.The failure to observe an increase in theproportion of utterances coded as "OrientsSuggestion" in the MTV interactions isprobably a result of the emergence of a turnstrategy not observed in the interactions withsimpler decision-making tasks.
Specifically,while all of the computer-mediated interactionsin the initial study and many of the computer-mediated interactions in the MTV study242consisted of relatively short turns, some of thelatter display a strategy of employing long turnsin which participants encode routine functionsfor several decisions in the same turn, as in (4).
(4) Best Female Video Either we could have CelineDione's song rts all coming back to me or the otherone that was in that movie up close and personal.Aany of the clips with her in them would be good.Toni Braxton with that song..gosh I can't hink ofany of the names of anybody's songs.
And show thesame clip as before.
What about jewel.
Who willsave your soul.
Personally I think she should win wecould use the clip of her playing the guitar in thebathroom.
We need one more female singer.
Did wepick who should present the award?
I think Bushshould play after the award.These more parallel management strategies canreduce the number of orientations if a singleorientation can hold for several suggestions anda single agreement can accept hem all.
Ofcourse, this is exactly what happens whenparticipants provide a list of suggestions in ashort urn, too.
Therefore, the parallel strategyis a minor modification of the decision routine,but it may influence the proportions of routinefunctions by reducing the number of orientationsand agreements.In fact, the proportions of utterances codedas "Agrees with Suggestion" and "Complieswith Request" are lower in the computer-mediated MTV interactions than in thecomputer-mediated interactions of the initialcorpus.
Though these proportions are stillslightly higher than those in the face-to-faceMTV condition, preserving the pattern observedin the initial corpus, the differences are smaller.These differences are reflected even moredramatically if we compare the ratios ofsuggestions to agreements in the MTV corpus.At approximately 1.5, the ratio of suggestions toagreements in the face-to-face condition of theMTV study resembles the ratio in the face-to-face condition of the earlier study (1.64).Similarly, the ratio of suggestions toagreementsin the computer-mediated interactions of theoriginal study is 1.71.
In contrast, he ratios ofsuggestions to agreements in the 4- and 18-lineconditions of the MTV corpus are much larger,both at approximately 2.5.
We believe thatmuch of the difference observed isthe result oflonger turns employing parallel decisionmanagement i  he MTV corpus.These results raise the question of theextent o which the interactions conform to amodel of the decision routine we havedescribed.
The measure developed inCondonet al (1997) begins by combining the 3 codeannotations as a triple and treating thosetriples as the output of a probabilistic source.Then 0-, 1 st- and 2nd-order Markov analysesare performed on the resulting sequences oftriples.
While the 0-order analyses simply givethe proportions of each triple in theinteractions, the lSt-order analyses make itpossible to examine adjacent pairs of triples todetermine the probability that a particularcombination of functions will be followed byanother particular combination of functions.Similarly, the 2hal-order analyses examinesequences of 3 utterances.Orientation ~ Suggestion~Agre_ementFigure 3: A More Complex Decision Routine Basedon Frequency AnalysesExamination of the 2ha-order analyses inthe original study revealed that all of the 7most frequent sequences of 3 utterances tracea path in the model in Figure 3.
Using themodel in Figure 3, we then calculated theproportions of 0-, 1 st- and 2nd-order sequencesthat race a path through the model.
Of course,the 0-order frequencies imply provide theproportions of utterances that are coded as243Discourse MoralityMarkov Order Oral Electronic0 (Single Function)1 (Sequence ofTwo)2 (Sequence ofThree).34 (.09) .53 (.13).16 (.06) .32 (.13).07(.04) .21(.11)Table 1: Proportions of Utterance Events AveragedPer Discourse (Standard Deviations in Parentheses)that Conform to the Model in Figure 3 from theOriginal Corpuseither orientations, uggestions or agreements,but the 1 st- and 2"a-order analyses make itpossible to examine the extent o which pairsand sequences of 3 utterances conform to themodel in Figure 3.
Table 1 presents the resultsof obtaining the measure just described from theinitial corpus of face-to-face and computer-mediated interactions.
The proportions thereforereflect he average (and standard eviation) perdiscourse of events that conform to a sequenceof routine continuations in Figure 3.Since conforming to the model is less andless likely as more functions are linked insequence, it is not surprising that he proportionsdecrease as the order of the Markov analysisincreases.
Still, it is encouraging that theproportions of routine continuations in the 1 st-order analyses are approximately equal to theproportions of suggestions in the two types ofinteractions, since the latter provide anestimate of the number of opportunities toengage in the routine.Table 2 presents the results of computingthe same analyses on the face-to-face, 4-line,10-line, and 18-line computer-mediatedinteractions inthe MTV corpus.
The 0-orderresults are much the same for both corporawith about 1/3 of the utterances in face-to-faceinteractions functioning inthe decision routinecompared to ?
in the computer-mediatedinteractions.
Similarly, proportions ofutterance pairs that conform to the routineremain fairly close to the proportions ofsuggestions in each condition.
Screen sizeappears to have no effect on the resultsobtained with this measure.ConclusionsThe results are promising both as evidence forour theory of routines and as an initial attemptto devise ameasure of conformity to routines.In particular, the fact that an additional corpuswith a more complex task has providedmeasures which are very similar to thoseobtained in the initial corpus increases ourconfidence that hese methods are tapping intosome stable phenomena.
Moreover, thesimilarities of the conformity measures inTables 1 and 2 occur in spite of the emergenceMarker OrderDiscourse ModalityOral 4-1me 1 O-line 18 -line0 (Single Function)1 (Sequence ofTwo)2 (Sequence ofThree).29 (.07) .50 (.12) .48 (.11) .45 (.
l l).11 (.05) .27 (.10) .25 (.10) .21 (.11).04 (.03) .17 (.10) .14 (.08) .12 (.10)Table 2: Proportions of Utterance Events Averaged Per Discourse(Standard Deviations in Parentheses) that Conform tothe Model in Figure 3 from the MT~ Corpus244of new computer-mediated discoursemanagement s rategies in which long turnsencode decision sequences in parallel.
Thoughthese strategies seem to have a strong effect onthe ratio of suggestions to agreements in thecomputer-mediated interactions of the MTVcorpus, the conformity measures are still quitesimilar to the measures obtained in thecomputer-mediated interactions of the initialstudy.The MTV data also confirm the resultobta ined in the original study that computer-mediated interactions rely more heavily onroutines than face-to-face interactions.
Themuch higher conformity measures for all threeMarkov orders provide clear evidence for thisclaim with respect to the decision routine.Moreover, a comparison of Figures l and 2shows that the computer-mediated interactionshave higher proportions of requests, especiallyrequests for information.
If these proportionsare indicative of the extent to which requestroutines are relied on in the interactions, thenthese data also support he claim that computer-mediated interactions rely on discourse routinesmore than face-to-face interactions.
Given ourclaims about the effectiveness of discourseroutines, it makes sense that participants in anunfamiliar communication environment willemploy their most efficient strategies.The conformity measure that has beendevised oes not make use of all the informationavailable in the Markov analyses, and wecontinue to experiment with different measures.It seems clear that Markov analyses can providesensitive measures that will be useful foridentifying differences between interactions andfor measuring the effects of experimental factorson interactions.ReferencesCarletta, J.; Dahlback, N.; Reithinger, N.; and Walker,M.
1997.
Standards for dialogue coding in naturallanguage processing.
Report no.
167, Dagstuhl-Seminar.Cohen, P.R.
; Morgan, J.; and Pollack, M., eds.
1990.Intentions in Communication.
Cambridge, MA:MIT Pr.
(~ech, C. and Condon, S. 1998.
Message SizeConstraints on Discourse Planning inSynchronous Computer-MediatedCommunication.
Behavior Research Methods,Instruments, & Computers, 30, 255-263.Condon, S. 1986.
The Discourse Functions of OK.Semiotica, 60: 73-101.Condon, S., and ~ech, C. 1992.
Manual for CodingDecision-Making Interactions.
Rev.
1995.Unpublished manuscript available at DiscourseResource Initiative wcbsitc athttp://www.gcorgetown.edu/luperfoy/Discourse-Treebank/dri-home.htmlCondon, S., and (~ech, C. 1996a.
FunctionalComparison of Face-to-Face and Computer-Mediated Decision-Making Interactions.
InHerring, S.
(ed.
),  Computer-MediatedCommunication: Linguistic, Social, and Cross-Cultural Perspectives.
Philadelphia: JohnBenjamin.Condon, S., and (~ech, C. 1996b.
DiscourseManagement in Face-to-Face and Computer-Mediated Decision-Making Interactions.Electronic Journal of Communication/La RevueElectroni~e de Communication, 6, 3.Condon, S., Cech, C., and Edwards, W. (1997)Discourse routines in decision-makinginteractions.
Paper presented to AAAI FallSymposium on Communicative Action in Humansand Machines.Di Eugenio, B.; Jordan, P.; Thomason, R.; and Moore,J.
1997.
Reconstructed intentions in collaborativeproblem solving dialogues.
Paper presented toAAAI Fall Syngx~um on Communicative Actionin Humans and Machines.Grosz, B. and Hirschberg, J.
1992.
Some intonationalcharacteristics of discourse structure.
InProceedings of the International Conference onSpoken Language Processing, Banff, Canada(429-432).Maier, E.; Mast, M.; and Lupeffoy, S., ?ds., DialogueProcessing inSpoken Language Systems, LectureNotes in Artificial Intelligence.
Springer Verlag.Nakatani, C., Hirschberg, J. and Grosz, B.
1995.Discourse structure in spoken language: Studieson speech corpora.
Paper presented toAAAI 1995Spring Symposium Series: Empirical Methods inDiscourse Interpretation a d Generation.Passonneau, R. 1996.
Using centering to relaxGricean informational constraints on discourseanaphoric noun phrases.
Language and Speech,39(2-3), 229-264.Schegloff, E. 1986.
The Routine as Achievement.Human Studies, 9: 111-151.Walker, M (1996).
Inferring acceptance and rejectionin dialog by default rules of inference.
Languageand Speech, 39(2-3), 265-304.245
