Discourse Relations: A Structural and Presuppositional Account UsingLexicalised TAG*Bonnie WebberUniv of Edinburghbonnie@dai.ed.ac.ukAlistair KnottUniv of Otagoalik@cs.otago.ac.nzMatthew StoneRutgers Univmdstone@cs.rutgers.eduAravind JoshiUniv of  Pennsylvaniajoshi @cis.upenn.eduAbstractWe show that discourse structure need not bearthe full burden of conveying discourse relations byshowing that many of them can be explained non-structurally in terms of the grounding of anaphoricpresuppositions (Van der Sandt, 1992).
This simpli-fies discourse structure, while still allowing the real-isation of a full range of discourse relations.
This isachieved using the same semantic machinery usedin deriving clause-level semantics.1 IntroductionResearch on discourse structure has, by and large,attempted to associate all meaningful relationsbetween propositions with structural connectionsbetween discourse clauses (syntactic clauses orstructures composed of them).
Recognising that thiscould mean multiple structural connections betweenclauses, Rhetorical Structure Theory (Mann andThompson, 1988) simply stipulates that only asingle relation may hold.
Moore and Pollack (1992)argue that both informational (semantic) and inten-tional relations can hold between clauses imultan-eously and independently.
This suggests that factor-ing the two kinds of relations might lead to a pairof structures, each still with no more than a singlestructural connection between any two clauses.But examples of multiple semantic relations areeasy to find (Webber et al, 1999).
Having struc-ture account for all of them leads to the complex-ities shown in Figure 1, including the crossing de-pendencies shown in Fig.
l c. These structures areno longer trees, making it difficult to define a com-positional semantics.This problem would not arise if one recognisedadditional, non-structural means of conveying se-mantic relations between propositions and modal* Our thanks to Mark Steedman, Katja Markert, Gann Biernerand three ACL'99 reviewers for all their useful comments.operators on propositions.
This is what we do here:Structurally, we assume a "bare bones" dis-course structure built up from more complexelements (LTAG trees) than those used in manyother approaches.
These structures and the op-erations used in assembling them are the basisfor compositional semantics.Stimulated by structural operations, inferencebased on world knowledge, usage conventions,etc., can then make defeasible contributions todiscourse interpretation that elaborate the non-defeasible propositions contributed by com-positional semantics.Non-structurally, we take additional semanticrelations and modal operators to be conveyedthrough anaphoric presuppositions (Van derSandt, 1992) licensed by information thatspeaker and hearer are taken to share.
A mainsource of shared knowledge is the interpreta-tion of the on-going discourse.
Because theentity that licences (or "discharges") a givenpresupposition usually has a source within thediscourse, the presupposition seems to link theclause containing the presupposition-bearing(p-bearing) element o that source.
However,as with pronominal and definite NP anaphora,while attentional constraints on their interpret-ation may be influenced by structure, the linksthemselves are not structural.The idea of combining compositional semanticswith defeasible inference is not new.
Neither is theidea of taking certain lexical items as anaphoricallypresupposing an eventuality or a set of eventualities:It is implicit in all work on the anaphoric nature oftense (cf.
Partee (1984), Webber (1988), inter alia)and modality (Stone, 1999).
What is new is the waywe enable anaphoric presupposition tocontribute tosemantic relations and modal operators, in a way41Ci Ci(a)R1 R 2C I C i  C k Ci C i C k C m(b) (c)Figure 1: Multiple semantic links (R  j )  between discourse clauses (Ci) :  (a) back to the same discourse clause;(b) back to different discourse clauses; (c) back to different discourse clauses, with crossing dependencies.that does not lead to the violations of tree structurementioned earlier.tWe discuss these differences in more detail inSection 2, after describing the lexicalised frame-work that facilitates the derivation of discourse se-mantics from structure, inference and anaphoricpresuppositions.
Sections 3 and 4 then present moredetailed semantic analyses of the connectives for ex-ample and otherwise.
Finally, in Section 5, we sum-marize our arguments for the approach and suggesta program of future work.2 FrameworkIn previous papers (Cristea and Webber, 1997;Webber and Joshi, 1998; Webber et al, 1999), wehave argued for using the more complex structures(elementary trees) of a Lexicalized Tree-AdjoiningGrammar (LTAG) and its operations (adjoining andsubstitution) to associate structure and semanticswith a sequence of discourse clauses.
2 Here webriefly review how it works.In a lexicalized TAG, each elementary tree has atleast one anchor.
In the case of discourse, the an-chor for an elementary tree may be a lexical item,punctuation or a feature structure that is lexicallynull.
The semantic ontribution of a lexical anchorincludes both what it presupposes and what it as-serts (Stone and Doran, 1997; Stone, 1998; Stoneand Webber, 1998).
A feature structure anchor willeither unify with a lexical item with compatible fea-tures (Knott and Mellish, 1996), yielding the previ-ous case, or have an empty realisation, though one1One may still need to admit structures having both a linkback and a link forward to different clauses (Gardent, 1997).But a similar situation can occur within the clause, with rel-ative clause dependencies - from the verb back to the relativepronoun and forward to a trace - so the possibility is not unmo-tivated from the perspective of syntax.2We take this to be only the most basic level of discoursestructure, producing what are essentially extended descriptionsof situations/events.
Discourse may be further structured withrespect o speaker intentions, genre-specific presentations, etc.that maintains its semantic features.The initial elementary trees used here corres-pond, by and large, to second-order predicate-argument structures - i.e., usually binary predicateson propositions or eventualities - while the auxil-iary elementary trees provide further information(constraints) added through adjoining.Importantly, we bar crossing structural connec-tions.
Thus one diagnostic for taking a predicateargument to be anaphoric rather than structural iswhether it can derive from across a structural link.The relation in a subordinate clause is clearly struc-tural: Given two relations, one realisable as "Al-though o?
\[3, the other realisable as "Because y ~5",they cannot ogether be realised as "Although ~ be-cause y \[3 &" with the same meaning as "Althougho?
\[3.
Because y 8".
The same is true of certain re-lations whose realisation spans multiple sentences,such as ones realisable as "On the one hand oz.
Onthe other hand 13."
and "Not only T- But also &" To-gether, they cannot be realised as "On the one hando?.
Not only T. On the other hand 13.
But also &"with the same meaning as in strict sequence.
Thuswe take such constructions to be structural as well(Webber and Joshi, 1998; Webber et al, 1999).On the other hand, the p-bearing adverb "then",which asserts that one eventuality starts after theculmination of another, has only one of its argu-ments coming structurally.
The other argument ispresupposed and thus able to come from across astructural boundary, as in(1) a.
On the one hand, John loves Barolo.b.
So he ordered three cases of the '97.c.
On the other hand, because he's broke,d.
he then had to cancel the order.Here, "then" asserts that the "cancelling" event in(d) follows the ordering event in (b).
Because thelink to (b) crosses the structural link in the parallelconstruction, we take this argument to come non-42structurally through anaphoric presupposition.
3Now we illustrate briefly how short discoursesbuilt from LTAG constituents get their semantics.For more detail, see (Webber and Joshi, 1998;Webber et al, 1999).
For more information on com-positional semantic operations on LTAG derivationtrees, see (Joshi and Vijay-Shanker, 1999).
(2) a.
You shouldn't trust John because he neverreturns what he borrows.b.
You shouldn't trust John.
He never eturnswhat he borrows.C.
You shouldn't rust John because, for ex-ample, he never eturns what he borrows.d.
You shouldn't trust John.
For example, henever etums what he borrows.Here A will stand for the LTAG parse tree for "youshouldn't trust John" and a, its derivation tree, andB will stand for the LTAG parse tree for "he neverreturns what he borrows" and 13, its derivation tree.The explanation of Example 2a is primarily struc-tural.
It involves an initial tree (y) anchored by "be-cause" (Figure 2).
Its derived tree comes from Asubstituting atthe left-hand substitution site of y (in-dex 1) and B at the right-hand substitution site (in-dex 3).
Semantically, the anchor of y ("because")asserts that the situation associated with the argu-ment indexed 3 (B) is the cause of that associatedwith the argument indexed 1 (A).The explanation of Example 2b is primarily struc-tural as well.
It employs an auxiliary tree (y)anchored by "."
(Figure 3).
Its derived tree comesfrom B substituting at the right-hand substitutionsite (index 3) of ),, and "f adjoining at the root ofA (index 0).
Semantically, adjoining B to A via ysimply implies that B continues the description ofthe situation associated with A.
The general infer-ence that this stimulates leads to a defeasible con-tribution of causality between them, which can bedenied without a contradiction - e.g.
(3) You shouldn't rust John.
He never returnswhat he borrows.
But that's not why youshouldn't trust him.Presupposition comes into play in Example 2c.This example adds to the elements used in Ex-3The fact that he events deriving from (b) and (d) appearto have the same temporal relation in the absence of "then"just shows that ense is indeed anaphoric and has no troublecrossing structural boundaries ither.ample 2a, an auxiliary tree anchored by "for ex-ample" (8), which adjoins at the root of B (Fig-ure 4).
"For example" contributes both a presup-position and an assertion, as described in more de-tail in Section 3.
Informally, "for example" presup-poses a shared set of eventualities, and asserts thatthe eventuality associated with the clause it adjoinsto, is a member of that set.
In Example 2c, the set islicensed by "because" as the set of causes/reasonsfor the situation associated with its first argument.Thus, associated with the derivation of (2c) are theassertions that the situation associated with B is acause for that associated with A and that the situ-ation associated with B is one of a set of suchcauses.Finally, Example 2d adds to the elements used inExample 2b, the same auxiliary tree anchored by"for example" (~5).
As in Example 2b, the causal-ity relation between the interpretations of B and Acomes defeasibly from general inference.
Of in-terest then is how the presupposition of "for ex-ample" is licenced - that is, what provides theshared set or generalisation that the interpretationof B is asserted to exemplify.
It appears to be li-cenced by the causal relation that has been inferredto hold between the eventualities denoted by B andA, yielding a set of causes/reasons forA.Thus, while we do not yet have a complete char-acterisation of how compositional semantics, de-feasible inference and anaphoric presupposition i -teract, Examples 2c and 2d illustrate one signific-ant feature: Both the interpretive contribution of astructural connective like "because" and the defeas-ible inference stimulated by adjoining can licensethe anaphoric presupposition fa p-bearing elementlike "for example".Recently, Asher and Lascarides (1999) have de-scribed a version of Structured Discourse Repres-entation Theory (SDRT) that also incorporates thesemantic ontributions of both presuppositions andassertions.
In this enriched version of SDRT, a pro-position can be linked to the previous discourse viamultiple rhetorical relations uch as background anddefeasible consequence.
While there are similaritiesbetween their approach and the one presented here,the two differ in significant ways:?
Unlike in the current approach, Asher and Las-carides (1999) take all connections (of both as-serted and presupposed material) to be struc-tural attachments hrough rhetorical relations.The relevant rhetorical relation may be inher-43~/(because)~ \[ \] ~ ~ A because becauseFigure 2: Derivation of Example 2a.
The derivation tree is shown below the arrow, and the derived tree, toits right.0,,"sBFigure 3: Derivation of Example 2bent in the p-bearing element (as with "too") orit may have to be inferred.?
Again unlike the current approach, all such at-tachments (of either asserted or presupposedmaterial) are limited to the right frontier of theevolving SDRT structure.We illustrate these differences through Example 1(repeated below), with the p-bearing element"then", and Example 5, with the p-bearing ele-ment "too".
Both examples call into question theclaim that material licensing presuppositions is con-strained to the right frontier of the evolving dis-course structure.
(4) a.
On the one hand, John loves Barolo.b.
So he ordered three cases of the '97.c.
On the other hand, because he's broke,d.
he then had to cancel the order.
(5) (a) I have two brothers.
(b) John is a historymajor.
(c) He likes water polo, (d) and he playsthe drums.
(e) Bill is in high school.
(f) Hismain interest is drama.
(g) He too studies his-tory, (h) but he doesn't like it much.In Example 1, the presupposition of "then" in (d)is licensed by the eventuality evoked by (b), whichwould not be on the right frontier of any structuralanalysis.
If "too" is taken to presuppose sharedknowledge of a similar eventuality, then the "too"in Example 5(g) finds that eventuality in (b), whichis also unlikely to be on the right frontier of anystructural analysis.
44The proposal in (Asher and Lascarides, 1999) to alter an44With respect to the interpretation f "too", Asherand Lascarides take it to presuppose a parallel rhet-orical relation between the current clause and some-thing on the right frontier.
From this instantiatedrhetorical relation, one then infers that the relatedeventualities are similar.
But if the right frontierconstraint is incorrect and the purpose of positinga rhetorical relation like parallel is to produce anassertion of similarity, then one might as well take"too" as directly presupposing shared knowledge ofa similar eventuality, as we have done here.
Thus,we suggest that the insights presented in (Asher andLascarides, 1999) have a simpler explanation.Now, before embarking on more detailed ana-lyses of two quite different p-bearing adverbs, weshould clarify the scope of the current approach interms of the range of p-bearing elements that cancreate non-structural discourse links.We believe that systematic study, perhaps tartingwith the 350 "cue phrases" given in (Knott, 1996,Appendix A), will show which of them use presup-position in realising discourse relations.
It is likelythat these might include:?
temporal conjunctions and adverbial connect-ives presupposing an eventuality that stands ina particular temporal relation to the one cur-rently in hand, such as "then", "later", "mean-while", "afterwards", "beforehand"';?
adverbial connectives presupposing sharedknowledge of a generalisation or set, suchexisting SDRT analysis n response toa p-bearing element,would seem superfluous if its only role is to re-structure theright frontier to support the claimed RF constraint.TB A ~, \[\] ~,becausefor example .y (because)o/I 3 B%%Figure 4: Derivation of Example 2cTfor example .C~OJo,,I 3I 5for exampleBFigure 5: Derivation of Example 2das "for example", "first...second...", "for in-stance";?
adverbial connectives presupposing sharedknowledge of an abstraction, such as "morespecifically", in particular";?
adverbial connectives presupposing a comple-mentary modal context, such as "otherwise";?
adverbial connectives presupposing an altern-ative to the current eventuality, such as "in-stead" and "rather".
5For this study, one might be able to use thestructure-crossing test given in Section 2 to distin-guish a relation whose arguments are both givenstructurally from a relation which has one of itsarguments presupposed.
(Since such a test won'tdistinguish p-bearing connectives such as "mean-while" from non-relational dverbials uch as "atdawn" and "tonight", the latter will have to be ex-cluded by other means, such as the (pre-theoretical)test for relational phrases given in (Knott, 1996).)?
3 For  exampleWe take "For example, P" to presuppose a quanti-fied proposition G, and to assert that his propositionis a generalisation of the proposition rcexpressed bythe sentence P. (We will write generalisation(rt, G.)A precise definition of generalisation is not neces-sary for the purposes of this paper, and we will as-sume the following simple definition:5Gann Bierner, personal communication?
generalisation(rc, G) iff (i) G is a quantifiedproposition of the form Q I (x, a(x), b(x)); (ii) itallows the inference of a proposition Gr of theform Q2 (x, a(x), b(x) ); and (iii) G' is inferrablefrom G (through aving a weaker quantifier).The presupposed proposition G can be licensedin different ways, as the following examples how:(6) a. John likes many kinds of wine.
For ex-ample, he likes Chianti.b.
John must be feeling sick, because, for ex-ample, he hardly ate a thing at lunch.c.
Because John was feeling sick, he did notfor example go to work.d.
Why don't we go to the National Gallery.Then, for example, we can go to the WhiteHouse.Example 6a is straightforward, in that the pre-supposed generalisation "John likes many kinds ofwine" is presented explicitly in the text.
6 In the re-maining cases, the generalisation must be inferred.In Example 6b, "because" licenses the generalisa-tion that many propositions upport the proposi-6Our definition of generalisation works as follows forthis example: the proposition n introduced by "for ex-ample" is likes(john, chianti), the presupposed propositionG is many(x, wine(x),likes(john,x), and the weakened pro-position G I is some(x, wine(x),likes(john,x).
~ allows G Ito be inferred, and G also allows G ~ to be inferred, hencegeneralisation(rc, G) is true.45tion that John must be feeling sick, while in Ex-ample 6c, it licences the generalisation that manypropositions follow from his feeling sick.
We canrepresent both generalisations u ing the meta-levelpredicate, evidence(rt, C), which holds iff a premiserc is evidence for a conclusion C.In Example 6d, the relevant generalisation in-volves possible worlds associated jointly with themodality of the first clause and "then" (Webber etal., 1999).
For consistency, the semantic interpreta-tion of the clause introduced by "for example" mustmake reference to the same modal base identified bythe generalisation.
There is more on modal bases inthe next section.4 OtherwiseOur analysis of "otherwise" assumes a modal se-mantics broadly following Kratzer (1991 ) and Stone(1999), where a sentence is asserted with respect oa set of possible worlds.
The semantics of "other-wise ct" appeals to two sets of possible worlds.
Oneis W0, the set of possible worlds consistent with ourknowledge of the real world.
The other, Wp, is thatset of possible worlds consistent with the conditionC that is presupposed, t~ is then asserted with re-spect to the complement set Wo - Wp.
Of interestthen is C - what it is that can serve as the sourcelicensing this presupposition.
7There are many sources for such a presupposi-tion, including if-then constructions (Example 7a-7b), modal expressions (Examples 7c- 7d) and in-finitival clauses (Example 7e)(7) a.
If the light is red, stop.
Otherwise, gostraight on.b.
If the light is red, stop.
Otherwise, youmight get run overc.
Bob \[could, may, might\] be in the kitchen.Otherwise, try in the living room.d.
You \[must, should\] take a coat with you.Otherwise you'll get cold.e.
It's useful to have a fall-back position.
Oth-erwise you're stuck.7There is another sense of "otherwise" corresponding to"inother respects", which appears either as an adjective phrasemodifier (e.g.
"He's an otherwise happy boy.")
or a clausalmodifier (e.g., "The physical ayer is different, but otherwiseit's identical to metropolitan networks.").
What is presupposedhere are one or more actual properties of the situation underdiscussion.each of which introduces new possibilities that areconsistent with our knowledge of the real world(W0), that may then be further described throughmodal subordination (Roberts, 1989; Stone andHardt, 1999).That such possibilities must be consistent withWo (i.e., why the semantics of "otherwise" is notsimply defined in terms of W r) can be seen by con-sidering the counterfactual variants of 7a-7d, with"had been", "could have been" or "should havetaken".
(Epistemic "must" can never be counterfac-tual.)
Because counterfactuals provide an alternat-ive to reality, W e is not a subset of W0 - and wecorrectly predict a presupposition failure for "other-wise".
For example, corresponding to 7a we have:(8) If the light had been red, John would havestopped.
#Otherwise, he went straight on.The appropriate connective here - allowing for whatactually happened - is "as it is" or "as it was".
8As with "for example", "otherwise" is compat-ible with a range of additional relations linking dis-course together as a product of discourse structureand defeasible inference.
Here, the clauses in 7a and7c provide a more complete description of what todo in different circumstances, while those in 7b, 7dand 7e involve an unmarked "because", as did Ex-ample 2d.
Specifically, in 7d, the "otherwise" clauseasserts that the hearer is cold across all currentlypossible worlds where a coat is not taken.
Withthe proposition understood that the hearer must notget cold (i.e., that only worlds where the hearer isnot cold are compatible with what is required), thisallows the inference (modus tollens) that only theworlds where the hearer takes a coat are compat-ible with what is required.
As this is the proposi-tion presented explicitly in the first clause, the text iscompatible with an inferential connective like "be-cause".
(Similar examples occur with "epistemic"because.
)Our theory correctly predicts that such discourserelations need not be left implicit, but can instead beexplicitly signalled by additional connectives, as in8There is a reading of the conditional which is not coun-terfactual, but rather a piece of free indirect speech report-ing on John's train of thought prior to encountering the light.This reading allows the use of "otherwise" with John's thoughtproviding the base set of worlds W0, and "otherwise" then in-troducing a complementary condition in that same context:If the light had been red, John would have stopped.Otherwise, he would have carded straight on.
Butas it turned out, he never got to the light.46(9) You should take a coat with you because oth-erwise you'll get cold.and earlier examples.
(Note that "Otherwise P" may yield an im-plicature, as well as having a presupposition, asin(10) John must be in his room.
Otherwise, his lightwould be off.Here, compositional semantics says that the secondclause continues the description of the situation par-tially described by the first clause.
General infer-ence enriches this with the stronger, but defeasibleconclusion that the second clause provides evidencefor the first.
Based on the presupposition of "oth-erwise", the "otherwise" clause asserts that John'slight would be off across all possible worlds wherehe was not in his room.
In addition, however, im-plicature related to the evidence relation betweenthe clauses, contributes the conclusion that the lightin John's room is on.
The point here is only thatpresupposition a d implicature are distinct mechan-isms, and it is only presupposition that we are fo-cussing on in this work.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we have shown that discourse struc-ture need not bear the full burden of discourse se-mantics: Part of it can be borne by other means.This keeps discourse structure simple and able tosupport astraight-forward compositional semantics.Specifically, we have argued that the notion of ana-phoric presupposition that was introduced by vander Sandt (1992) to explain the interpretation ofvarious definite noun phrases could also be seen asunderlying the semantics of various discourse con-nectives.
Since these presuppositions are licensedby eventualities taken to be shared knowledge, agood source of which is the interpretation of thediscourse so far, anaphoric presupposition can beseen as carrying some of the burden of discourseconnectivity and discourse semantics in a way thatavoids crossing dependencies.There is, potentially, another benefit to factor-ing the sources of discourse semantics in this way:while cross-linguistically, inference and anaphoricpresupposition are likely to behave similarly, struc-ture (as in syntax) is likely to be more language spe-cific.
Thus a factored approach as a better chanceof providing a cross-linguistic account of discoursethan one that relies on a single premise.Clearly, more remains to be done.
First, the ap-proach demands a precise semantics for connect-ives, as in the work of Grote (1998), Grote et al(1997), Jayez and Rossari (1998) and Lagerwerf(1998).Secondly, the approach demands an understand-ing of the attentional characteristics of presupposi-tions.
In particular, preliminary study seems to sug-gest that p-bearing elements differ in what sourcecan license them, where this source can be located,and what can act as distractors for this source.
Infact, these differences seem to resemble the range ofdifferences in the information status (Prince, 1981;Prince, 1992) or familiarity (Gundel et al, 1993) ofreferential NPs.
Consider, for example:(11 ) I got in my old Volvo and set off to drive cross-country and see as many different mountainranges as possible.
When I got to Arkansas, forexample, I stopped in the Ozarks, although Ihad to borrow another car to see them becauseVolvos handle badly on steep grades.Here, the definite NP-like presupposition of the"when" clause (that getting to Arkansas is sharedknowledge) is licensed by driving cross-country; thepresupposition of "for example" (that stopping inthe Ozarks exemplifies some shared generalisation)is licensed by seeing many mountain ranges, and thepresupposition of "another" (that an alternative carto this one is shared knowledge) is licensed by myVolvo.
This suggests a corpus annotation effort foranaphoric presuppositions, similar to ones alreadyin progress on co-reference.Finally, we should show that the approach aspractical benefit for NL understanding and/or gener-ation.
But the work to date surely shows the benefitof an approach that narrows the gap between dis-course syntax and semantics and that of the clause.ReferencesNicholas Asher and Alex Lascarides.
1999.
Thesemantics and pragmatics of presupposition.Journal of Semantics, to appear.Dan Cristea and Bonnie Webber.
1997.
Expect-ations in incremental discourse processing.
InProc.
35 th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 88-95, Mad-rid, Spain.
Morgan Kaufmann.Claire Gardent.
1997.
Discourse tree adjoininggrammars.
Claus report nr.89, University of theSaarland, Saarbriicken.47Brigitte Grote, Nils Lenke, and Manfred Stede.1997.
Ma(r)king concessions in English and Ger-man.
Discourse Processes, 24(1 ):87-118.Brigitte Grote.
1998.
Representing temporal dis-course markers for generation purposes.
InColing/ACL Workshop on Discourse Relationsand Discourse Markers, pages 22-28, Montreal,Canada.Jeanette Gundel, N.A.
Hedberg, and R. Zacharski.1993.
Cognitive status and the form of referringexpressions in discourse.
Language, 69:274-307.Jacques Jayez and Corinne Rossari.
1998.
Prag-matic connectives a predicates.
In Patrick Saint-Dizier, editor, Predicative Structures in NaturalLanguage and Lexical Knowledge Bases, pages306-340.
Kluwer Academic Press, Dordrecht.Aravind Joshi and K. Vijay-Shanker.
1999.Compositional semantics with lexicalized tree-adjoining grammar (LTAG)?
In Proc.
3 rd Int'lWorkshop on Compuational Semantics, Tilburg,Netherlands, January.Alistair Knott and Chris Mellish.
1996.
A feature-based account of the relations ignalled by sen-tence and clause connectives.
Language andSpeech, 39(2-3): 143-183.Alistair Knott.
1996.
A Data-driven Methodo-logy for Motivating a Set of Coherence Rela-tions.
Ph.D. thesis, Department of Artificial In-telligence, University of Edinburgh.Angelika Kratzer.
1991.
Modality.
In A. vonStechow and D. Wunderlich, editors, Semantics:An International Handbook of Contemporary Re-search, pages 639-650. de Gruyter.Luuk Lagerwerf.
1998.
Causal Connectives havePresuppositions.
Holland Academic Graphics,The Hague, The Netherlands.
PhD Thesis, Cath-olic University of Brabant.William Mann and Sandra Thompson.
1988.
Rhet-orical structure theory.
Text, 8(3):243-281.Johanna Moore and Martha Pollack.
1992.
A prob-lem for RST: The need for multi-level discouseanalysis.
Computational Linguistics, 18(4):537-544.Barbara Partee.
1984.
Nominal and temporal ana-phora.
Linguistics & Philosophy, 7(3):287-324.Ellen Prince.
1981.
Toward a taxonomy of given-new information.
In Peter Cole, editor, RadicalPragmatics, pages 223-255.
Academic Press.Ellen Prince.
1992.
The zpg letter: Subjects,definiteness and information-status.
In SusanThompson and William Mann, editors, DiscourseDescription: Diverse Analyses of a FundraisingText, pages 295-325.
John Benjamins.Craige Roberts.
1989.
Modal subordination andpronominal anaphora in discourse.
Linguisticsand Philosophy, 12(6):683-721.Matthew Stone and Christine Doran.
1997.
Sen-tence planning as description using tree adjoin-ing grammar.
In Proc.
35 th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, pages198-205, Madrid, Spain.
Morgan Kaufmann.Matthew Stone and Daniel Hardt.
1999.
Dynamicdiscourse referents for tense and modals.
InHarry Bunt, editor, Computational Semantics,pages 287-299.
Kluwer.Matthew Stone and Bonnie Webber.
1998.
Tex-tual economy through closely coupled syntax andsemantics.
In Proceedings of the Ninth Inter-national Workshop on Natural Language Gen-eration, pages 178-187, Niagara-on-the-Lake,Canada.Matthew Stone.
1998.
Modality in Dialogue: Plan-ning, Pragmatics and Computation.
Ph.D. thesis,Department ofComputer & Information Science,University of Pennsylvania.Matthew Stone.
1999.
Reference to possibleworlds.
RuCCS report 49, Center for CognitiveScience, Rutgers University.Rob Van der Sandt.
1992.
Presupposition pro-jection as anaphora resolution.
Journal of Se-mantics, 9:333-377.Bonnie Webber and Aravind Joshi.
1998.
Anchor-ing a lexicalized tree-adjoining grammar for dis-course.
In Coling/ACL Workshop on DiscourseRelations and Discourse Markers, pages 86-92,Montreal, Canada.Bonnie Webber, Alistair Knott, and Aravind Joshi.1999.
Multiple discourse connectives in a lexic-alized grammar for discourse.
In 3 ~d Int'l Work-shop on Computational Semantics, pages 309-325, Tilburg, The Netherlands.Bonnie Webber.
1988.
Tense as discourse anaphor.Computational Linguistics, 14(2):61-73.4B
