Alternating Quantifier Scope in CCG*Mark SteedmanDivision of Informatics,University of Edinburgh,2 Buccleuch Place,Edinburgh EH8 9LW, UKsteedman@cogsc i. ed.
ac.
ukAbstractThe paper shows that movement or equivalentcomputational structure-changing operations of anykind at the level of logical form can be dispensedwith entirely in capturing quantifer scope ambi-guity.
It offers a new semantics whereby the ef-fects of quantifier scope alternation can be obtainedby an entirely monotonic derivation, without ype-changing rules.
The paper follows Fodor (1982),Fodor and Sag (1982), and Park (1995, 1996) inviewing many apparent scope ambiguities as arisingfrom referential categories rather than true general-ized quantitiers.1 IntroductionIt is standard to assume that the ambiguity of sen-tences like (1) is to be accounted for by assigningtwo logical forms which differ in the scopes as-signed to these quantifiers, as in (2a,b): 1(1) Every boy admires ome saxophonist.
(2) a. Vx.boy' x -+ 3y.saxophonis/ y A admires' yxb.
3y.saxophonis/ y A Vx.bo/x -+ admires'yxThe question then arises of how a grammar/parsercan assign all and only the correct interpretations tosentences with multiple quantifiers.This process has on occasion been explainedin terms of "quantifier movement" or essentially* Early versions of this paper were presented to audiences atBrown U., NYU, and Karlov2~ U. Prague.
Thanks to JasonBaldridge, Gann Bierner, Tim Fernando, Kit Fine, Polly Ja-cobson, Mark Johnson, Aravind Joshi, Richard Kayne, ShalomLappin, Alex Lascarides, Suresh Manandhar, Jaruslav Peregrin,Jong Park, Anna Szabolcsi, Bonnie Webber, Alistair Willis, andthe referees for helpful comments.
The work was supported inpart by ESRC grant M423284002.tThe notation uses juxtaposition fa to indicate applicationof a functor f to an argument a. Constants are distinguishedfrom variables by a prime, and semantic functors like admires'are assumed tobe "Curried".
A convention f "left associativi-ty" is assumed, sothat admires'yx is equivalent to (admires'y)x.equivalent computational operations of "quantify-ing in" or "storage" at the level of logical form.However, such accounts present a problem formonostratal and monotonic theories of grammarlike CCG that try to do away with movement orthe equivalent in syntax.
Having eliminated non-monotonic operations from the syntax, to have torestore them at the level of logical form would bedismaying, given the strong assumptions of trans-parency between syntax and semantics from whichthe monotonic theories begin.
Given the assump-tions of syntactic/semantic transparency and mono-tonicity that are usual in the Frege-Montague tra-dition, it is tempting to try to use nothing but thederivational combinatorics of surface grammar todeliver all the readings for ambiguous sentences like(1).
Two ways to restore monotonicity have beenproposed, namely: enriching the notion of deriva-tion via type-changing operations; or enriching thelexicon and the semantic ontology.It is standard in the Frege-Montague tradition tobegin by translating expressions like "every boy"and "some saxophonist" into "generalized quanti-tiers" in effect exchanging the roles of argumentslike NPs and functors like verbs by a process of"type-raising" the former.
In terms of the notationand assumptions of Combinatory Categorial Gram-mar (CCG, Steedman 1996) the standard way to in-corporate generalized quantifiers into the semanticsof CG deterbainers is to transfer type-raising to thelexicon, ass ig~g the following categories to deter-miners like every and some, making them functionsfrom nouns to "type-raised" noun-phrases, wherethe latter are simply the syntactic types correspond-ing to a generalized quantifier:(3) every := (T/ (T\NP)) /N : ~,p,~l.Vx.px -+qxevery := (T\ (T/NP)) /N : kp.kq.Vx.px --+ qx(4) some := (T/(T\UP))/U:~,p.~l.3x.pxAqxsome := (T \ (T/NP)) /N:Lp.~l .3x.pxAqx301(T is a variable over categories unique to each in-dividual occurrence of the raised categories (3) and(4), abbreviating a finite number of different raisedtypes.
We will distinguish such distinct variables asT, T', as necessary.
)Because CCG adds rules of function compositionto the rules of functional application that are stan-dard in pure Categorial Grammar, the further in-clusion of type-raised arguments engenders deriva-tions in which objects command subjects, as well asmore traditional ones in which the reverse is true.Given the categories in (3) and (4), these alterna-tive derivations will deliver the two distinct logi-cal forms shown in (2), entirely monotonically andwithout involving structure-changing operations.However, linking derivation and scope as simplyand directly as this makes the obviously false pre-diction that in sentences where there is no ambi-guity of CCG derivation there should be no scopeambiguity.
In particular, object topicalization andobject right node raising are derivationally unam-biguous in the relevant respects, and force the dis-placed object to command the rest of the sentencein derivational terms.
So they should only have thewide scope reading of the object quantifier.
This isnot the case:(5) a.
Some saxophonist, every boy admires.b.
Every boy admires, and every girl detests,some saxophonist.Both sentences have a narrow scope reading inwhich every individual has some attitude towardssome saxophonist, but not necessarily the same sax-ophonist.
This observation appears to imply thateven the relatively free notion of derivation providedby CCG is still too restricted to explain all ambigu-ities arising from multiple quantifiers.Nevertheless, the idea that semantic quantifierscope is limited by syntactic derivational scope hassome very attractive features.
For example, it imme-diately explains why scope alternation is both un-bounded and sensitive to island constraints.
Thereis a further property of sentence (5b) which wasfirst observed by Geach (1972), and which makesit seem as though scope phenomena are strongly re-stricted by surface grammar.
While the sentence hasone reading where all of the boys and girls havestrong feelings toward the same saxophonist--say,John Coltrane--and another reading where theirfeelings are all directed at possibly different saxo-phonists, it does not have a reading where the sax-ophonist has wide scope with respect o every boy,but narrow scope with respect o every girl thatis, where the boys all admire John Coltrane, butthe girls all detest possibly different saxophonists.There does not even seem to be a reading involvingseparate wide-scope saxophonists respectively tak-ing scope over boys and girls--for example wherethe boys all admire Coltrane and the girls all detestLester Young.These observations are very hard to reconcilewith semantic theories that invoke powerful mech-anisms like abstraction or "Quantifying In" and itsrelatives, or "Quantifier Movement."
For example,if quantifiers are mapped from syntactic levels tocanonical subject, object etc.
position at predicate-argument structure in both conjuncts in (5b), andthen migrate up the logical form to take either wideor narrow scope, then it is not clear why some saxo-phonist should have to take the same scope in bothconjuncts.
The same applies if quantifiers are gener-ated in situ, then lowered to their surface position.
2Related observations led Partee and Rooth(1983), and others to propose considerably moregeneral use of type-changing operations than arerequired in CCG, engendering considerably moreflexibility in derivation that seems to be required bythe purely syntactic phenomena that have motivatedCCG up till now.
3While the tactic of including such order-preserving type-changing operations in the gram-mar remains a valid alternative for a monotonictreatment of scope alternation in CCG and relatedforms of categorial grammar, there is no doubt thatit complicates the theory considerably.
The type-changing operations necessarily engender infinitesets of categories for each word, requiring heuris-tics based on (partial) orderings on the operationsconcerned, and raising questions about complete-ness and practical parsability.
All of these ques-tions have been addressed by Hendriks and others,but the result has been to dramatically raise the ratioof mathematical proofs to sentences analyzed.It seems worth exploring an alternative responseto these observations concerning interactions of sur-2Such observations have been countered by the invocationof a "parallelism condition" on coordinate s ntences, a rule ofa very expressively powerful "transderivational" kind that onewould otherwise wish to avoid.3For example, in order to obtain the narrow scope objectreading for sentence (5b), Hendriks (1993), subjects the cate-gory of the transitive verb to "argument lifting" to make it afunction over a type-raised object ype, and the coordinationrule must be correspondingly semantically generalized.302face structure and scope-taking.
The present paperfollows Fodor (1982), Fodor and Sag (1982), andPark (1995, 1996) in explaining scope ambiguitiesin terms of a distinction between true generalizedquantifiers and other purely referential categories.For example, in order to capture the narrow-scopeobject reading for Geach's right node raised sen-tence (5b), in whose CCG derivation the object mustcommand everything else, the present paper fol-lows Park in assuming that the narrow scope read-ing arises from a non-quantificational interpretationof some scecophonist, one which gives rise to a read-ing indistinguishable from a narrow scope readingwhen it ends up in the object position at the levelof logical form.
The obvious candidate for such anon-quantificational interpretation is some kind ofreferring expression.The claim that many noun-phrases which havebeen assumed to have a single generalized quan-tifier interpretation are in fact purely referential isnot new.
Recent literature on the semantics ofnatural quantifiers has departed considerably fromthe earlier tendency for semanticists to reduce allsemantic distinctions Of nominal meaning such asde dicto/de re, reference/attribution, etc.
to dis-tinctions in scope of traditional quantifiers.
Thereis widespread recognition that many such distinc-tions arise instead from a rich ontology of differenttypes of (collective, distributive, intensional, group-denoting, arbitrary, etc.)
individual to which nom-inal expressions refer.
(See for example Webber1978, Barwise and Perry 1980, Fodor and Sag 1982,Fodor 1982, Fine 1985, and papers in the recent col-lection edited by Szabolcsi 1997.
)One example of such non-traditional entity types(if an idea that apparently originates with Aristotlecan be called non-traditional) is the notion of "arbi-trary objects" (Fine 1985).
An arbitrary object is anobject with which properties can be associated butwhose extensional identity in terms of actual objectsis unspecified.
In this respect, arbitrary objects re-semble the Skolem terms that are generated by in-ference rules like Existential Elimination in prooftheories of first-order predicate calculus.The rest of the paper will argue that arbitrary ob-jects so interpreted are a necessary element of theontology for natural language semantics, and thattheir involvement in CCG explains not only scopealternation (including occasions on which scope al-ternation is not available), but also certain cases ofanomalous copal binding which are unexplainedunder any of the alternatives discussed so far.2 Donkeys as Skolem TermsOne example of an indefinite that is probably betteranalyzed as an arbitrary object than as a quantifiedNP occurs in the following famous sentence, firstbrought o modern attention by Geach (1962):(6) Every farmer who owns a donkey/beats it/.The pronoun looks as though it might be a variablebound by an existential quantifier associated with adonkey.
However, no purely combinatoric analysisin terms of the generalized quantifier categories of-fered earlier allows this, since the existential cannotboth remain within the scope of the universal, andcome to c-command the pronoun, as is required fortrue bound pronominal anaphora, as in:(7) Every farmer/in the room thinks that she/de-serves a subsidyOne popular eaction to this observation has beento try to generalize the notion of scope, as in Dy-namic Predicate Logic (DPL).
Others have pointedout that donkey pronouns in many respects lookmore like non-bound-variable or discourse-boundpronouns, in examples like the following:(8) Everybody who knows Gilbert/likes him/.I shall assume for the sake of argument hat "adonkey" translates at predicate-argument structureas something we might write as arb'donkey'.
Ishall assume that the function arb t yields a Skolemterm--that is, a term applying a unique functor toall variables bound by universal quantifiers in whoseextent arb'donkey falls.
Call it SkdonkeyX in this case,where Skdonkey maps individual instantiations of x - -that is, the variable bound by the generalized quan-tifier every farmer---onto bjects with the propertydonkey in the database.
4An ordinary discourse-bound pronoun may bebound to this arbitrary object, but unless the pro-noun is in the scope of the quantifiers that bind anyvariables in the Skolem term, it will include a vari-able that is outside the scope of its binder, and failto refer.This analysis is similar to but distinct fromthe analyses of Cooper (1979) and Heim (1990),41 assume that arb p "knows" what scopes it is in by the samemechanism whereby a bound variable pronoun "knows" aboutits binder.
Whatever this mechanism is, it does not have thepower of movement, abstraction, or storage.
An arbitrary ob-ject is deterministically bound to all scoping universals.303who assume that a donkey translates as a quanti-fied expression, and that the entire subject everyfarmer who owns a donkey establishes a contextu-ally salient function mapping farmers to donkeys,with the donkey/E-type pronoun specifically of thetype of such functions.
However, by making thepronoun refer instead to a Skolem term or arbitraryobject, we free our hands to make the inferenceswe draw on the basis of such sentences sensitive toworld knowledge.
For example, if we hear the stan-dard donkey sentence and know that farmers mayown more than one donkey, we will probably in-fer on the basis of knowledge about what makespeople beat an arbitrary donkey that she beats allof them.
On the other hand, we will not make aparallel inference on the basis of the following sen-tence (attributed to Jeff Pelletier), and the knowl-edge that some people have more than one dime intheir pocket.
(9) Everyone who had a dime in their pocket putit in the parking meter.The reason is that we know that the reason forputting a dime into a parking meter, unlike the rea-son for beating a donkey, is voided by the act itself.The proposal to translate indefinites as Skolemterm-like discourse ntities is anticipated in muchearly work in Artificial Intelligence and Compu-tational Linguistics, including Kay (1973), Woods(1975 p.76-77), VanLehn (1978), and Webber(1983, p.353, cf.
Webber 1978, p.2.52), and alsoby Chierchia (1995), Schlenker (1998), and in un-published work by Kratzer.
Skolem functors areclosely related to, but distinct from, "Choice Func-tions" (see Reinhart 1997, Winter 1997, Sauerland1998, and Schlenker 1998 for discussion.
Webber's1978 analysis is essentially a choice functional anal-ysis, as is Fine's.
)3 Scope Alternation and Skolem EntitiesIf indefinites can be assumed to have a referen-tial translation as an arbitrary object, rather than ameaning related to a traditional existential gener-alized quantifier, then other supposed quantifiers,such as some/a few/two saxophonists may also bebetter analyzed as referential categories.We will begin by assuming that some is not aquantifier, but rather a determiner of a (singular) ar-bitrary object.
It therefore has the following pair ofsubject and complement categories:(10) a. some := (T/(T\NP))/N:~p.7~7.q(arb'p)b. some := (T\(T/NP))/N: ~,pS~q.q(arb'p)In this pair of categories, the constant arb' is thefunction identified earlier from properties p to en-tities of type e with that property, such that thoseentities are functionally related to any universallyquantified NPs that have scope over them at the levelof logical form.
If arblp is not in the extent of anyuniversal quantifier, then it yields a unique arbitraryconstant individual.We will assume that every has at least the gen-eralized quantifier determiner given at (3), repeatedhere:(11) a. every := (T/(T\NP))/N :LpSkq.Vx.px -+ qxb.
every := (T\(T/NP))/N:p. .Vx.px qxThese assumptions, as in Park's related account,provide everything we need to account for all andonly the readings that are actually available for theGeach sentence (5b), repeated here:(12) Every boy admires, and every girl detests,some saxophonist.The "narrow-scope saxophonist" reading of thissentence results from the (backward) referential cat-egory (10b) applying to the translation of Every boyadmires and every girl detests of type S/NP (whosederivation is taken as read), as in (13).
Crucially, ifwe evaluate the latter logical form with respect o adatabase after this reduction, as indicated by the dot-ted underline, for each boy and girl that we exam-ine and test for the property of admiring/detestingan arbitrary saxophonist, we will find (or in thesense of Lewis (1979) "accommodate" or add to ourdatabase) a potentially different individual, depen-dent via the Skolem functors sk(~ and sk~r2 uponthat boy or girl.
Each conjunct thereby gives theappearance of including a variable bound by an ex-istential within the scope of the universal.The "wide-scope saxophonist" reading arisesfrom the same categories as follows.
If Skolem-ization can act after reduction of the object, whenthe arbitrary object is within the scope of the uni-versal, then it can also act before, when it is not inscope, to yield a Skolem constant, as in (14).
Sincethe resultant logical form is in all important respectsmodel-theoretically equivalent to the one that wouldarise from a wide scope existential quantification,we can entirely eliminate the quantifier eading (4)for some, and regard it as bearing only the arbitraryobject reading (10).
55Similar considerations give rise to apparent wide and nar-304(\]3)(14)Every boy admires and every girl detests some saxophonistS/NP  S \ (S /NP)?
Lr.and'(Vy.boy'y --+ admires'xy)(Vz.girl'z --+ detests'xz) ?
kq .q (arb 'sd)S: and' (Vy.boy'y -+ admires' ( arb' sax~)y) (Vz.girl' z -+ detests' ( arb' sd  )z~S " and' (Vy.boy'y --+ admires' (sk~ax, y)y) (Vz.girl' z --+ detests' (sk~,tr 2 z) z)Every boy admires and every girl detests?
Lx.and' (Vy.boy'y --+ admires xy) (Vz.girl'z --~ detests'xz)some saxophonistS\ (S /NP): 2~t.q( arb' sax I)?
; ?<S : and' (Vy.boy'y --+ admires' sk~,vcy ) (Vz?girl'z --+ detests' k~axZ )Consistent with Geach's observation, these cate-gories do not yield a reading in which the boys ad-mire the same wide scope saxophonist but the girlsdetest possibly different ones?
Nor do they yieldone in which the girls also all detest he same sax-ophonist, but not necessarily the one the boys ad-mire?
Both facts are necessary consequences of themonotonic nature of CCG as a theory of grammar,without any further assumptions of parallelism con-ditions?In the case of the following scope-inverting rel-ative of the Geach example, the outcome is subtlydifferent?
(15) Some woman likes and some man detests ev-ery saxophonist?The scope-inverting reading arises from the evalua-tion of the arbitrary woman and man after combina-tion with every saxophonist, within the scope of theuniversal:(16) Vx?saxophonist' x --+/ / / / / and (likes x(skwomanX) )(detests x(skmanX) )The reading where some woman and some man ap-pear to have wider scope than every saxophonistarises from evaluation of (the interpretation of) theresidue of right node raising, some woman likes andsome man detests, before combination with the gen-eralized quantifier every saxophonist.
This results in' and sk~nan liking two Skolem constants, say skwoma nevery saxophonist, again without he involvement ofa true existential quantifier:(17) Vx.saxophonist' x --+and' (likes'x skrwo,nan)(detests' x sk~nan )These readings are obviously correct.
However,row scope versions of the existential donkey in (6).since Skolemization of the arbitrary man andwoman has so far been assumed to be free to occurany time, it seems to be predicted that one arbitraryobject might become a Skolem constant in advanceof reduction with the object, while the other mightdo so after.
This would give rise to further read-ings in which only one of some man or some womantakes wide scope--for example: 6(18) Vx.saxophonist' x --+and' ( likes' x SUwoma n ) (detestS' x( Sk~nanx ) )Steedman (1991) shows on the basis of pos-sible accompanying intonation contours that thecoordinate fragments like Some woman likes andsome man detests that result from right node rais-ing are identical with information structural unitsof utterances--usually, the "theme."
In the presentframework, readings like (18) can therefore be elim-inated without parallelism constraints, by the furtherassumption that Skolemization/binding of arbitraryobjects can only be done over complete informationstructural units--that is, entire themes, rhemes, orutterances.
When any such unit is resolved in thisway, all arbitrary objects concerned are obligatorilybound.
7While this account of indefinites might appear tomix derivation and evaluation in a dangerous way,this is in fact what we would expect from a mono-~I'he non-availability of such readings has also been usedto argue for parallelism constraints.
Quite apart from the the-oretically problematic nature of such constraints, they must berather carefully formulated if they are not to exclude perfectlylegal conjunction of narrow scope existentials with explicitlyreferential NPs, as in the following:(i) Some woman likes, and Fred detests, every saxophonist.71 am grateful to Gann Bierner for pointing me towards thissolution.305tonic semantics that supports the use of incrementalsemantic interpretation to guide parsing, as humansappear to (see below).Further support for a non-quantificational analy-sis of indefinites can be obtained from the observa-tion that certain nominals that have been talked ofas quantifiers entirely fail to exhibit scope alterna-tions of the kind just discussed.
One important classis the "non-specific" or "non-group-denoting count-ing" quantifiers, including the upward-monotone,downward-monotone, and non-monotone quanti-tiers (Barwise and Cooper 1981) such as at leastthree, few, exactly five and at most two in exampleslike the following, which are of a kind discussed byLiu (1990), Stabler (1997), and Beghelli and Stow-ell (1997):(19) a.
Some linguist can program in at most twoprogramming languages.b.
Most linguists speak at least three/few/exactly five languages.In contrast o true quantifiers like most and every,these quantified NP objects appear not to be able toinvert or take wide scope over their subjects.
That is,unlike some linguist can program in every program-ming language which has a scope-inverting read-ing meaning that every programming language isknown by some linguist, (19a) has no reading mean-ing that there are at most two programming lan-guages that are known to any linguist, and (19b)cannot mean that there are at least three/few/exactlyfive languages, languages that most linguists speak.Beghelli and Stowell (1997) account for this be-havior in terms of different "landing sites" (or in GBterms "functional projections") at the level of LF forthe different ypes of quantifier.
However, anotheralternative is to believe that in syntactic terms thesenoun-phrases have the same category as any otherbut in semantic terms they are (plural) arbitrary ob-jects rather than quantifiers, like some, a few, six andthe like.
This in turn means that they cannot engen-der dependency in the arbitrary object arising fromsome linguist in (19a).
As a result he sentence has asingle meaning, to the effect hat there is an arbitrarylinguist who can program in at most two program-ming languages.4 Computing Available ReadingsWe may assume (at least for English) that eventhe non-standard constituents created by functioncomposition in CCG cannot increase the numberof quantifiable arguments for an operator beyondthe limit of three or so imposed by the lexicon.
Itfollows that the observation of Park (1995, 1996)that only quantified arguments of a single (possi-bly composed) function can freely alternate scopeplaces an upper bound on the number of readings.The logical form of an n-quantifier sentence is aterm with an operator of valency 1, 2 or 3, whose ar-gument(s) must either be quantified expressions orterms with an operator of valency 1, 2 or 3, and soon.
The number of readings for an n quantifier sen-tence is therefore bounded by the number of nodesin a single spanning tree with a branching factor bof up to three and n leaves.
This number is givenby a polynomial whose dominating term is b t?gb' -that is, it is linear in n, albeit with a rather largeconstant (since nodes correspond up to 3!
= 6 read-ings).
For the relatively small n that we in practiceneed to cope with, this is still a lot of readings in theworst case.However, the actual number of readings for realsentences will be very much lower, since it dependson how many true quantifiers are involved, and inexactly what configuration they occur.
For example,the following three-quantifier sentence is predictedto have not 3 !
= 6 but only 4 distinct readings, sincethe non-quantifiers exactly three girls and somebook cannot alternate scope with each other inde-pendently of the truly quantificational dependency-inducing Every boy.
(20) Every boy gave exactly three girls some book~This is an important saving for the parser, as redun-dant analyses can be eliminated on the basis of iden-tity of logical forms, a standard method of eliminat-ing such "spurious ambiguities.
"Similarly, as well as the restrictions that we haveseen introduced by coordination, the SVO grammarof English means (for reasons discussed in Steed-man 1996) that embedded subjects in English arecorrectly predicted neither to extract nor take scopeover their matrix subject in examples like the fol-lowing:(21) a.
*a boy who(m) I know that admires JohnColtraneb.
Somebody knows that every boy admiressome saxophonist.As Cooper 1983 points out, the latter has no read-ings where every boy takes scope over somebody.This three-quantifier sentence therefore has not 3 !
=6, not 2!
?
2!
= 4, but only 2!
?
1 = 2 readings.Bayer (1996) and Kayne (1998) have noted related306restrictions on scope alternation that would other-wise be allowed for arguments hat are marooned inmid verb-group in German.
Since such embeddingsare crucial to obtaining proliferating readings, it islikely that in practice the number of available read-ings is usually quite small.It is interesting to speculate finally on the relationof the above account of the available scope readingswith proposals to minimize search during process-ing by building "underspecified" logical forms byReyle (1992), and others cited in Willis and Man-andhar (1999).
There is a sense in which arbitraryindividuals are themselves under-specified quanti-tiers, which are disambiguated by Skolemization.However, under the present proposal, they are dis-ambiguated during the derivation itself.The alternative of building a single under-specified logical form can under some circum-stances dramatically reduce the search space andincrease efficiency of parsing--for example withdistributive xpressions in sentences like Six girlsate .five pizzas, which are probably intrinsically un-specified.
However, few studies of this kind havelooked at the problems posed by the restrictions onavailable readings exhibited by sentences like (5b).The extent o which inference can be done with theunder-specified representations themselves for thequantifier alternations in question (as opposed todistributives) is likely to be very limited.
If theyare to be disambiguated fficiently, then the disam-biguated representations must embody or includethose restrictions.
However, the restriction thatGeach noted seems intrinsically disjunctive, andhence appears to threaten efficiency in both parsingwith, and disambiguation f, under-specified repre-sentations.The fact that relatively few readings are availableand that they are so tightly related to surface struc-ture and derivation means that the technique of in-cremental semantic or probabilistic disambiguationof fully specified partial logical forms mentionedearlier may be a more efficient echnique for com-puting the contextually relevant readings.
For ex-ample, in processing (22) (adapted from Hobbs andShieber 1987), which Park 1995 claims to have onlyfour readings, rather than the five predicted by theiraccount, such a system can build both readings forthe S/NP every representative of three companiessaw and decide which is more likely, before build-ing both compatible readings of the whole sentenceand similarly resolving with respect to statistical orcontextual support:(22) Every representative of three companies awsome sample.5 ConclusionThe above observations imply that only those so-called quantifiers in English which can engenderdependency-inducing scope inversion have interpre-tations corresponding to genuine quantifiers.
Theothers are not quantificationai tall, but are varioustypes of arbitrary individuals translated as Skolemterms.
These give the appearance of taking nar-row scope when they are bound to truly quantifiedvariables, and of taking wide scope when they areunbound, and therefore "take scope everywhere.
"Available readings can be computed monotonicallyfrom syntactic derivation alone.
The notion of syn-tactic derivation embodied in CCG is the most pow-erful limitation on the number of available read-ings, and allows all logical-form level constraintson scope orderings to be dispensed with, a resultrelated to, but more powerful than, that of Pereira(1990).ReferencesBarwise, Jon and Cooper, Robin, 1981.
"General-ized Quantifiers and Natural Language."
Linguis-tics and Philosophy 4:159-219.Barwise, Jon and Perry, John, 1980.
"Situations andAttitudes."
Journal of Philosophy 78:668-691.Bayer, Josef, 1996.
Directionality and LogicalForm: On the Scope of Focusing Particles andWh-in-situ.
Dordmcht: Kluwer.Beghelli, Filippo and Stowell, Tim, 1997.
"Dis-tributivity and Negation: the Syntax of Each andEvery."
In Anna Szabolcsi (ed.
), Ways of Scope-Taking, Dordrecht: Kluwer.
71-107.Chierchia, Gennaro, 1995.
Dynamics of Meaning.Chicago, IL.
: Chicago University Press.Cooper, Robin, 1979.
"The Interpretation of Pro-nouns."
In Frank Hew and Helmut Schnelle(eds.
), The nature of Syntactic Representation,New York, NY: Academic Press, volume 10 ofSyntax and Semantics.Cooper, Robin, 1983.
Quantification and SyntacticTheory.
Dordrecht: Reidel.Fine, Kit, 1985.
Reasoning with Arbitrary Objects.Oxford: Oxford University Press.Fodor, Janet Dean, 1982.
"The Mental Representa-tion of Quantifiers."
In Stanley Peters and Esa307Saarinen (eds.
), Processes, Beliefs, and Ques-tions, Dordrecht: Reidel.
129-164.Fodor, Janet Dean and Sag, Ivan, 1982.
"Referen-tial and Quantificational Indefinites."
Linguisticsand Philosophy 5:355-398.Geach, Peter, 1962.
Reference and Generality.Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.Geach, Peter, 1972.
"A Program for Syntax."
InDonald Davidson and Gilbert Harman (eds.
), Se-mantics of Natural Language, Dordrecht: Reidel.483-497.Heim, Irene, 1990.
"E-Type Pronouns and DonkeyAnaphora."
Linguistics and Philosophy 13:137-177.Hendriks, Herman, 1993.
Studied Flexibility: Cate-gories and Types in Syntax and Semantics.
Ph.D.thesis, Universiteit van Amsterdam.Hobbs, Jerry and Shieber, Stuart, 1987.
"An Algo-rithm for Generating Quantifier Scopings."
Com-putational Linguistics 13:47-63.Kay, Martin, 1973.
"The MIND System."
InRandall Rustin (ed.
), Natural language process-ing, New York: Algorithmics Press, volume 8of Courant Computer Science Symposium.
155-188.Kayne, Richard, 1998.
"Overt vs. Covert Move-ment."
Syntax 1:1-74.Lewis, David, 1979.
"Scorekeeping in a LanguageGame."
Journal of Philosophical Logic 8:339-359.Liu, Feng-Hsi, 1990.
Scope and Dependency inEn-glish and Chinese.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofCalifornia, Los Angeles.Park, Jong, 1995.
"Quantifier Scope and Con-stituency."
In Proceedings of the 33rd AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Boston.
Palo Alto, Calif.: MorganKaufmann, 205-212.Park, Jong, 1996.
A Lexical Theory of Quantifica-tion in Ambiguous Query Interpretation.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Pennsylvania.
Tech ReportMS-CIS-96-26/IRCS-96-27, University of Penn-sylvania.Partee, Barbara and Rooth, Mats, 1983.
"Gen-eralised Conjunction and Type Ambiguity."
Inet al R. Baiierle (ed.
), Meaning, Use, and Inter-pretation of Language, Berlin: de Gruyter.Pereira, Fernando, 1990.
"Categorial Semanticsand Scoping."
Computational Linguistics 16:1-10.Reinhart, Tanya, 1997.
"Quantifier Scope': HowLabor is divided between QR and Choice Func-tions."
Linguistics and Philosophy 20(4):335-397.Reyle, Uwe, 1992.
"On Reasoning with Ambigui-ties."
In Proceedings of the 7th Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, Dublin.
1-8.Sauerland, Uli, 1998.
The Meaning of Chains.Ph.D.
thesis, MIT, Cambridge, MA.Schlenker, Philippe, 1998.
"Skolem Functions andthe Scope of Indefinites."
In Proceedings of the1998 Conference of the North-East LinguisticsSociety.
to appear.Stabler, Ed, 1997.
"Computing Quantifier Scope.
"In Anna Szaboicsi (ed.
), Ways of Scope-Taking,Dordrecht: Kluwer.
155-182.Steedman, Mark, 1991.
"Structure and Intonation.
"Language 67:262-296.Steedman, Mark, 1996.
Surface Structure and In-terpretation.
Cambridge Mass.
: MIT Press.
Lin-guistic Inquiry Monograph, 30.Szabolcsi, Anna (ed.
), 1997.
Ways of Scope-Taking.Dordrecht: Kluwer.VanLehn, Kurt, 1978.
Determining the Scope of En-glish Quantifiers.
Master's thesis, MIT.
AI-TR-483, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, MIT.Webber, Bonnie Lynn, 1978.
A Formal Approachto Discourse Anaphora.
Ph.D. thesis, Harvard.publ.
Garland 1979.Webber, Bonnie Lynn, 1983.
"So What Can WeTalk About Now?"
In Michael Brady and RobertBerwick (eds.
), Computational Models of Dis-course, Cambridge MA.
: MIT Press.
331-371.Willis, Alistair and Manandhar, Suresh, 1999.
"Two Accounts of Scope Availability and Seman-tic Underspecification."
In Proceedings of the37th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics Computational Semantics.College Park, MD, June, to appear.Winter, Yoad, 1997.
"Choice Functions and theScopal Semantics of Indefinites."
Linguistics andPhilosophy 20(4):399--467.Woods, William, 1975.
"What's in a Link: Foun-dations for Semantic Networks."
In Daniel Bo-brow and Alan Collins (eds.
), Representation a dUnderstanding: Readings in Cognitive Science,New York: Academic Press.
35-82.308
