Semantic Analysis of Japanese Noun Phrases :A New Approach to Dict ionary-Based UnderstandingSadao Kurohashi and Yasuyuki SakaiGraduate School of Informatics, Kyoto UniversityYoshida-honmachi,  Sakyo, Kyoto, 606-8501, Japankuro0 i ,  kyoto -u ,  ac.
jpAbst rac tThis paper presents a new method of analyz-ing Japanese noun phrases of the form N1 no5/2.
The Japanese postposition o roughly cor-responds to of, but it has much broader us-age.
The method exploits a definition of N2in a dictionary.
For example, rugby no coachcan be interpreted as a person who teaches tech-nique in rugby.
We illustrate the effectivenessof the method by the analysis of 300 test nounphrases.1 IntroductionThe semantic analysis of Japanese noun phrasesof the form N1 no N2 is one of the difficult prob-lems which cannot be solved by the current ef-forts of many researchers.
Roughly speaking,Japanese noun phrase N1 no N2 corresponds toEnglish noun phrase N2 of N1.
However, theJapanese postposition o has much broader us-age than of as follows:watashi 'I' no kuruma 'car'tsukue 'desk' no ashi 'leg'gray no seihuku 'uniform'possessionwhole-partmodificationsenmonka 'expert' no chousa 'study'agentrugby no coach subjectyakyu 'baseball' no senshu 'player'categorykaze 'cold' no virus resultryokou 'travel' no jyunbi 'preparation'purposetoranpu 'card' no tejina 'trick' instrumentThe conventional approach to this problemwas to classify semantic relations, such as pos-session, whole-part, modification, and others.Then, classification rules were crafted by hand,or detected from relation-tagged examples bya machine learning technique (Shimazu et al,1987; Sumita et al, 1990; Tomiura et al, 1995;Kurohashi et al, 1998).The problem in such an approach is to setup the semantic relations.
For example, theabove examples and their classification camefrom the IPA nominal dictionary (Information-Technology Promotion Agency, Japan, 1996).Is it possible to find clear boundaries amongsubject, category, result, purpose, instrument,and others?
No matter how fine-grained rela-tions we set up, we always encounter phraseswhich are on the boundary or belong to two ormore relations.This paper proposes a completely differentapproach to the task, which exploits semanticrole information of nouns in an ordinary dictio-nary.2 Semant ic  Ro les  o f  NounsThe meaning of a word can be recognized bythe relationship with its semantic roles.
In thecase of verbs, the arguments of the predicatesconstitute the semantic roles, and a consider-able number of studies have been made.
Forexample, the case grammar theory is a semanticvalence theory that describes the logical form ofa sentence in terms of a predicate and a seriesof case-labeled arguments such as agent, object,location, source, goal (Fillmore, 1968).
Further-more, a wide-coverage dictionary describing se-mantic roles of verbs in machine readable formhas been constructed by a great deal of labor(Ikehara et al, 1997).Not only verbs, but also nouns can have se-mantic roles.
For example, coach is a coach ofsome sport; virus is a virus causing some dis-ease.
Unlike the case of verbs, no semantic-481Table 1: Semantic relations in N1 no N2Relation Noun Phrase N1 no N2 Verb PhraseSemantic-role rugby no coach,kaze 'cold' no virus,tsukue 'desk' no ashi 'leg',ryokou 'travel' no jyunbi 'preparation'hon-wo 'book-Ace' yomu 'read'Agent senmonka 'expert' no chousa 'study' kare-ga 'he-NOM' yomu 'read'Possession watashi 'I' no kuruma 'car'Belonging gakkou 'school' no sensei 'teacher'Time aki 'autumn' no hatake 'field' 3ji-ni 'at 3 o'clock' yomu 'read'Place Kyoto no raise 'store' heya-de 'in room' yomu 'read'Modification gray no seihuku 'uniform' isoide 'hurriedly' yomu 'read'huzoku 'attached' no neji 'screw'ki 'wooden' no hako 'box'Complement kimono no jyosei ' lady'nobel-sho 'Nobel prize' no kisetsu 'season'role dictionary for nouns has been constructedso far.
However, in many cases, semantic rolesof nouns are described in an ordinary dictio-nary for human being.
For example, a Japanesedictionary for children, Reikai Shougaku Koku-gojiten (abbreviated to RSK) (Tadil~, 1997),gives the definition of the word coach and virusas follows 1:coach a person who teaches technique in somesportv i rus  a living thing even smaller than bacte-ria which causes infectious disease like in-fluenzaIf an NLP system can utilize these definitionsas they are, we do not need to take the trou-ble in constructing a semantic-role dictionaryfor nouns in the special format for machine-use.3 Interpretation of  N1 no N2 using aDic t ionarySemantic-role information of nouns in an ordi-nary dictionary can be utilized to solve the dif-ficult problem in the semantic analysis of N11Although our method handles Japanese nounphrases by using Japanese definition sentences, in thispaper we use their English translations for the explana-tion.
In some sense, the essential point of our method islanguage-independent.no N2 phrases.
In other words, we can say theproblem disappears.For example, rugby no coach can be inter-preted by the definition of coach as follows: thedictionary describes that the noun coach has ansemantic role of sport, and the phrase rugby nocoach specifies that the sport is rugby.
That is,the interpretation of the phrase can be regardedas matching rugby in the phrase to some sportin the coach definition.
Furthermore, based onthis interpretation, we can paraphrase rugby nocoach into a person who teaches technique inrugby, by replacing some sport in the definitionwith rugby.Kaze 'cold' no virus is also easily interpretedbased on the definition of virus, linking kaze'cold' to infectious disease.Such a dictionary-based method can handleinterpretation of most phrases where conven-tional classification-based analysis failed.
As aresult, we can arrange the diversity of N1 no N2senses imply as in Table 1.The semantic-role relation is a relation thatN1 fills in an semantic role of N2.
When N2 isan action noun, an object-action relation is alsoregarded as a semantic-role relation.On the other hand, in the agent, posses-sion and belonging relations, N1 and N2 havea weaker elationship.
In theory, any action canbe done by anyone (my study, his reading, etc.
);482anything can be possessed by anyone (my pen,his feeling, etc.
); and anyone can belong to anyorganization (I belong to a university, he be-longs to any community, etc.
).The difference between the semantic-role r -lation and the agent, possession, belonging rela-tions can correspond to the difference betweenthe agent and the object of verbs.
In general,the object has a stronger elationship with averb than the agent, which leads several asym-metrical linguistic phenomena.The time and place relations have muchclearer correspondence to optional cases forverbs.
A modification relation is also parallelto modifiers for verbs.
If a phrase has a modi-fication relation, it can be paraphrased into N2is N1, like gray no seihuku 'uniform' is para-phrased into seihuku 'uniform' is gray.The last relation, the complement relation isthe most difficult to interpret.
The relation be-tween N1 and N2 does not come from Nl'S se-mantic roles, or it is not so weak as the otherrelations.
For example, kimono no jyosei 'lady'means a lady wearing a kimono, and nobel-sho'Nobel prize' no kisetsu 'season' means a sea-son when the Nobel prizes are awarded.
Sinceautomatic interpretation f the complement re-lation is much more difficult than that of otherrelations, it is beyond the scope of this paper.4 Ana lys i s  MethodOnce we can arrange the diversity of N1 no N 2senses as in Table 1, their analysis becomes verysimple, consisting of the following two modules:1.
Dictionary-based analysis (abbreviated toDBA hereafter) for semantic-role r lations.2.
Semantic feature-based analysis (abbrevi-ated to SBA hereafter) for some semantic-role relations and all other relations.After briefly introducing resources employed,we explain the algorithm of the two analyses.4.1 Resources4.1.1 RSKRSK (Reikai Shougaku Kokugojiten), aJapanese dictionary for children, is used to findsemantic roles of nouns in DBA.
The reasonwhy we use a dictionary for children is that,generally speaking, definition sentences of sucha dictionary are described by basic words,which helps the system finding links betweenN1 and a semantic role of a head word.All definition sentences in RSK were analyzedby JUMAN, a Japanese morphological nalyzer,and KNP, a Japanese syntactic and case ana-lyzer (Kurohashi and Nagao, 1994; Kurohashiand Nagao, 1998).
Then, a genus word for ahead word, like a person for coach were detectedin the definition sentences by simple rules: in aJapanese definition sentence, the last word is agenus word in almost all cases; if there is a nouncoordination at the end, all of those nouns areregarded as genus words.4.1.2 NTT  Semant ic  FeatureDictionaryNTT Communication Science Laboratories(NTT CS Lab) constructed a semantic featuretree, whose 3,000 nodes are semantic features,and a nominal dictionary containing about300,000 nouns, each of which is given one ormore appropriate semantic features.
Figure 1shows the upper levels of the semantic featuretree.SBA uses the dictionary to specify conditionsof rules.
DBA also uses the dictionary to cal-culate the similarity between two words.
Sup-pose the word X and Y have a semantic featureSx and Sy, respectively, their depth is dx anddy in the semantic tree, and the depth of theirlowest (most specific) common node is de, thesimilarity between X and Y, sire(X, Y), is cal-culated as follows:sire(X, Y) = (dc x 2)/(dx + dy).If Sx  and Sy are the same, the similarity is 1.0,the maximum score based on this criteria.4.1.3 NTT  Verb Case F rameDictionaryNTT CS Lab also constructed a case framedictionary for 6,000 verbs, using the semanticfeatures described above.
For example, a caseframe of the verb kakou-suru (process) is as fol-lows:N1 (AGENT)-ga N2(CONCRETE)-wo kako.u-suru'N1 process N2'where ga and wo are Japanese nominative andaccusative case markers.
The frame describes483NOUNCONCRETEJAGENT PLACE/ \HUMAN ORGANIZATIONCONCRETEABSTRACTJABSTRACT EVENT ABSTRACT RELATIONJ/l\TIME POSITION QUANTITY .
.
.
.Figure 1: The upper levels of NTT Semantic Feature Dictionary.that the verb kakou-suru takes two cases, nounsof AGENT semantic feature can fill the ga-caseslot and nouns of CONCRETE semantic featurecan fill the wo-case slot.
KNP utilizes the caseframe dictionary for the case analysis.4.2 A lgor i thmGiven an input phrase N1 no N2, both DBA andSBA are applied to the input, and then the twoanalyses are integrated.4.2.1 Dic t ionary -based  Ana lys i sDictionary based-Analysis (DBA) tries to finda correspondence between N1 and a semanticrole of N2 by utilizing RSK, by the followingprocess:1.
Look up N2 in RSK and obtain the defini-tion sentences of N2.2.
For each word w in the definition sentencesother than the genus words, do the follow-ing steps:2.1.
When w is a noun which shows asemantic role explicitly, like kotog-ara 'thing', monogoto 'matter',  nanika'something', and N1 does not have asemantic feature of HUMAN or TIME,give 0.9 to their correspondence 2.2.2.
When w is other noun, calculate thesimilarity between N1 and w by usingNTT Semantic Feature Dictionary (asdescribed in Section 4.1.2), and give2For the present, parameters in the algorithm weregiven empirically, not optimized by a learning method.the similarity score to their correspon-dence.2.3.
When w is a verb, it has a vacant caseslot, and the semantic constraint forthe slot meets the semantic feature ofN1, give 0.5 to their correspondence...If we could not find a correspondence with0.6 or more score by the step 2, look up thegenus word in the RSK, obtain definitionsentences of it, and repeat he step 2 again.
(The looking up of a genus word is doneonly once.
)Finally, if the best correspondence score is0.5 or more, DBA outputs the best corre-spondence, which can be a semantic-rolerelation of the input; if not, DBA outputsnothing.For example, the input rugby no coach is ana-lyzed as follows (figures attached to words indi-cate the similarity scores; the underlined scoreis the best):(1) rugby no coachcoach a person who teaches technique0.21in some sport 1.0Rugby, technique and sport have the semanticfeature  SPORT, METHOD and SPORT respectivelyin NTT Semantic Feature Dictionary.
The low-est common node between SPORT and METHODis ABSTRACT, and based on these semantic fea-tures, the similarity between rugby and tech-nique is calculated as 0.21.
On the other hand,484the similarity between rugby and sport is calcu-lated as 1.0, since they have the same seman-tic feature.
The case analysis finds that all caseslots of teach are filled in the definition sentence.As a result, DBA outputs the correspondencebetween rugby and sport as a possible semantic-role relation of the input.On the other hand, bunsho 'writings' no tat-sujin 'expert' is an example that N1 correspondsto a vacant case slot of the predicate outstand-ing:(2) bunshou 'writings' no tatsujin 'expert'expert  a person being outstanding (at?0.50)Puroresu 'pro wrestling' no chukei 'relay' isan example that the looking up of a genus wordbroadcast leads to the correct analysis:(3) puroresu 'pro wrestling' no chukei 'relay'relay a relay broadcastbroadcast a radioo.o or televisiono.opresentation of news 0.48,entertainment 0.87, music o.so andothers4.2.2 Semantic  Feature-based AnalysisSince diverse relations in N1 no N2 are han-dled by DBA, the remaining relations can bedetected by simple rules checking the semanticfeatures of N1 and/or N2.The following rules are applied one by one tothe input phrase.
Once the input phrase meetsa condition, SBA outputs the relation in therule, and the subsequent rules are not appliedany more.1.
NI:HUMAN, N2:RELATIVE --~ semantic-role(relative)e.g.
kare 'he' no oba 'aunt'2.
NI:HUMAN, N2:PERSONAL._RELATION --~semantic-role(personal relation)e.g.
kare 'he' no tomodachi 'friend'3.
NI:HUMAN, N2:HUMAN --~ modifica-tion(apposition)e.g.
gakusei 'student' no kare 'he'4.
NI:ORGANIZATION, N2:HUMAN ~ belong-inge.g.
gakkou 'school' no sensei 'teacher'5.
NI:AGENT, N2:EVENT ~ agente.g.
senmonka 'expert' no chousa 'study'6.
NI:MATERIAL, N2:CONCRETE --+ modifica-tion(material)e.g.
ki 'wood' no hako 'box'7.
NI:TIME, N2:* 3 ___+ timee.g.
aki 'autumn' no hatake 'field'8.
NI:COLOR, QUANTITY, or FIGURE, g2:*modificatione.g.
gray no seihuku 'uniform'9.
gl:*,  N2:QUANTITY ~ semantic-role(at-tribute)e.g.
hei 'wall' no takasa 'height'10.
g l :*  , N2:POSITION ~ semantic-role(posi-tion)e.g.
tsukue 'desk' no migi 'right'11.
NI:AGENT, Y2:* ~ possessione.g.
watashi f no kuruma 'car'12.
NI:PLACE or POSITION, N2:* ---* placee.g.
Kyoto no mise 'store'The rules 1, 2, 9 and 10 are for certainsemantic-role relation.
We use these rules be-cause these relations can be analyzed more ac-curately by using explicit semantic features,rather than based on a dictionary.4.2.3 Integration of Two AnalysesUsually, either DBA or SBA outputs some rela-tion.
In rare cases, neither analysis outputs anyrelation, which means analysis failure.
Whenboth DBA and SBA output some relations, theresults are integrated as follows (basically, if theoutput of the one analysis is more reliable, theoutput of the other analysis is discarded):I f  a semantic-role r lation is detected by SBA,discard the output from DBA.Else if the correspondence of 0.95 or morescore is detected by DBA,discard the output from SBA.Else if some relation is detected by SBA,discard the output from DBA if the corre-spondence score is 0.8 or less.In the case of the following example, rojin 'oldperson' no shozo 'portrait', both analyses wereaccepted by the above criteria.3,., meets any noun.485Table 2: Experimental results of N1 no N2 analysis.Relation (R)Semantic-role (DBA)Semantic-role (SBA)AgentPossessionBelongingTimePlaceModificationCorrect R is correct, but the R was detected,detected correspon- but incorrectdence was incorrectR was not detected,though R is possiblycorrect137 19 21 1915 - -  2 010 - -  1 232 - -  7 012 - -  1 220 - -  1 023 - -  7 220 - -  3 21(4) rojin 'old person' no shozo 'portrait'DBA :portrait  a painting0.17 or photograph0.17of a face0.1s or figure0.0 of realperson 0.s4SBA : N I :AGENT , N2 :*  ----+ possessionDBA interpreted the phrase as a portrait onwhich an old person was painted; SBA detectedthe possession relation which means an old per-son possesses a portrait.
One of these interpre-tations would be preferred epending on con-text, but this is a perfect analysis expected forN1 no N2 analysis.5 Exper iment  and  D iscuss ion5.1 Exper imenta l  Eva luat ionWe have collected 300 test N1 no N2 phrasesfrom EDR dictionary (Japan Electronic Dic-t ionary Research Institute Ltd., 1995), IPAdictionary (Information-Technology PromotionAgency, Japan, 1996), and literatures on N1 noN2 phrases, paying attention so that they hadenough diversity in their relations.
Then, weanalyzed the test phrases by our system, andchecked the analysis results by hand.Table 2 shows the reasonably good resultboth of DBA and SBA.
The precision of DBA,the ratio of correct analyses to detected anal-yses, was 77% (=137/(137+19+21)); the re-call of DBA, the ratio of correct analysesto potential semantic-role relations, was 78%(=137/(137+19+19)).
The result of SBA is alsogood, excepting modification relation.Some phrases were given two or more rela-tions.
On average, 1.1 relations were given toone phrase.
The ratio that at least one correctrelation was detected was 81% (=242/300); theratio that all possibly correct relations were de-tected and no incorrect relation was detectedwas 73% (=219/300).5.2 D iscuss ion  of Correct Ana lys isThe success ratio above was reasonably good,but we would like to emphasize many interestingand promising examples in the analysis results.
(5) mado 'window' no curtain 'curtain'curta in a hanging cloth that can bedrawn to cover a window1.0 in aroom0.s3, to divide a room0.s3, etc.
(6) osetsuma 'living room' no curtain 'curtain'curta in a hanging cloth that can bedrawn to cover a window0.s2 in aroom 1.0, to divide a room 1.0, etc.
(7) oya 'parent' no isan 'legacy'lagacy property left on the death ofthe owner 0.s4Mado 'window' no curtain must embarrassconventional classification-based methods; itmight be place, whole-part, purpose, or someother relation like being close.
However, DBAcan clearly explain the relation.
Osetuma 'liv-ing room' no curtain is another interestingly an-alyzed phrase.
DBA not only interprets it in asimple sense, but also provides us with more in-teresting information that a curtain might bebeing used for partition in the living room.486The analysis result of oya 'parent' no isan'legacy' is also interesting.
Again, not only thecorrect analysis, but also additional informationwas given by DBA.
That is, the analysis resulttells us that the parent died.
Such informationwould facilitate intelligent peformance in a dia-logue system analyzing:User : I bought a brand-new car by the legacyfrom my parent.System : Oh, when did your parent die?
Ididn't know that.By examining these analysis results, wecan conclude that the dictionary-based un-derstanding approach can provide us withmuch richer information than the conventionalclassification-based approaches.5.3 Discussion of Incorrect AnalysisIt is possible to classify some of the causes ofincorrect analyses arising from our method.One problem is that a definition sentence doesnot always describe well the semantic roles asfollows:(8) shiire 'stocking' no saikaku 'resoucefulness'resoucefulness the ability to use one'shead 0.1s cleverlySaikaku 'resourcefulness' can be the ability forsome task, but the definition says nothing aboutthat.
On the other hand, the definition ofsainou 'talent' is clearer about the semantic roleas shown below.
Concequently, shii~e 'stocking'no sainou 'tMent' can be interpretted correctlyby DBA.
(9) shiire 'stocking' no sainou 'talent'ta lent power and skill, esp.
to dosomething 0.90This represents an elementary problem of ourmethod.
Out of 175 phrases which should beinterpreted as semantic-role r lation based onthe dictionary, 13 were not analyzed correctlybecause of this type of problem.However, such a problem can be solved byrevising the definition sentences, of course innatural language.
This is a humanly reason-able task, very different from the conventionalapproach where the classification should be re-considered, or the classification rules should bemodified.Another problem is that sometimes the simi-larity calculated by NTT semantic feature dic-tionary is not high enough to correspond as fol-lows:(10) ume 'ume flowers' no meisho 'famous place'famous place a place being famous forscenery 0.20, etc.In some cases the structure of NTT semanticfeature dictionary is questionable; in some casesa definition sentence is too rigid; in other casesan input phrase is a bit metaphorical.As for SBA, most relations can be detectedwell by simple rules.
However, it is not possibleto detect amodification relation accurately onlyby using NTT semantic feature dictionary, be-cause modifier and non-modifier nouns are oftenmixed in the same semantic feature category.Other proper resource should be incorporated;one possibility is to use the dictionary definitionof N1.6 Re la ted  WorkFrom the view point of semantic roles of nouns,there have been several related research con-ducts: the mental space theory is discussingthe functional behavior of nouns (Fauconnier,1985); the generative lexicon theory accountsfor the problem of creative word senses basedon the qualia structure of a word (Pustejovsky,1995); Dahl et al (1987) and Macleod et al(1997) discussed the treatment of nominaliza-tions.
Compared with these studies, the pointof this paper is that an ordinary dictionary canbe a useful resource of semantic roles of nouns.Our approach using an ordinary dictionaryis similar to the approach used to creat Mind-Net (Richardson et al, 1998).
However, the se-manitc analysis of noun phrases is a much morespecialized and suitable application of utilizingdictionary entries.7 Conc lus ionThe paper proposed a method of analyzingJapanese N1 no N2 phrases based on a dictio-nary, interpreting obscure phrases very clearly.The method can be applied to the analysis ofcompound nouns, like baseball player.
Roughlyspeaking, the semantic diversity in compoundnouns is a subset of that in N1 no N2 phrases.Furthermore, the method must be applicable to487the analysis of English noun phrases.
The trans-lated explanation in the paper naturally indi-cates the possibility.AcknowledgmentsThe research described in this paper was sup-ported in part by JSPS-RFTF96P00502 (TheJapan Society for the Promotion of Science, Re-search for the Future Program) and Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research 10143209.ReferencesDeborah A. DaM, Martha S. Palmer, and Re-becca J. Passonneau.
1987.
Nominalizationsin PUNDIT.
In Proceedings of the 25th An-nual Meeting of ACL, pages 131-139, Stan-ford, California.Gilles Fauconnier.
1985.
Mental Spaces : as-pects of meaning construction i  natural an-guage.
The MIT Press.Charles J. Fillmore.
1968.
The case for case.Holt, Rinehart and Winston, New York.Satoru Ikehara, Masahiro Miyazaki, SatoshiShirai, Akio Yokoo, Hiromi Nakaiwa, Ken-tarou Ogura, and Yoshifumi Oyama Yoshi-hiko Hayashi, editors.
1997.
Japanese Lexi-con.
Iwanami Publishing.Information-Technology Promotion Agency,Japan.
1996.
Japanese Nouns : A Guide tothe IPA Lexicon of Basic Japanese Nouns.Japan Electronic Dictionary Research InstituteLtd.
1995.
EDR Electronic Dictionary Spec-ifications Guide.Sadao Kurohashi and Makoto Nagao.
1994.
Asyntactic analysis method of long Japanesesentences based on the detection of conjunc-tive structures.
Computational Linguistics,20(4).Sadao Kurohashi and Makoto Nagao.
1998.Building a Japanese parsed corpus while im-proving the parsing system.
In Proceedings ofthe First International Conference on Lan-guage Resources ~ Evaluation, pages 719-724.Sadao Kurohashi, Masaki Murata, YasunoriYata, Mitsunobu Shimada, and MakotoNagao.
1998.
Construction of Japanesenominal semantic dictionary using "A NOB" phrases in corpora.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-A CL '98 workshop on the Computa-tional Treatment of Nominals.Catherine Macleod, Adam Meyers, Ralph Gr-ishman, Leslie Barrett, and Ruth Reeves.1997.
Designing a dictionary of derived nom-inals.
In Proceedings of Recent Advances inNatural Language Processing, Tzigov Chark,Bulgaria.James Pustejovsky.
1995.
The Generative Lex-icon.
The MIT Press.Stephen D. Richardson, William B. Dolan, andLucy Vanderwende.
1998.
Mindnet: ac-quiring and structuring semantic informa-tion from text.
In Proceedings of COLING-A CL '98.Akira Shimazu, Shozo Naito, and Hirosato No-mura.
1987.
Semantic structure analysis ofJapanese noun phrases wirh adnominal parti-cles.
In Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meet-ing of ACL, pages 123-130, Stanford, Califor-nia.Eiichiro Sumita, Hitoshi Iida, and Hideo Ko-hyama.
1990.
Translating with examples: Anew approach to machine translation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 3rd TMI, pages 203-212.Jyunichi Tadika, editor.
1997.
Reika ShougakuKokugojiten (Japanese dictionary for chil-dren).
Sanseido.Yoichi Tomiura, Teigo Nakamura, and Toru Hi-taka.
1995.
Semantic structure of Japanesenoun phrases NP no NP (in Japanese).Transactions of Information Processing Soci-ety of Japan, 36(6):1441-1448.488
