Unifying ParallelsCla i re  GardentComputat iona l  LinguisticsUniversity of the SaarlandSaarbriicken, Germanyc la i re0co l i ,  un i - sb ,  deAbst rac tI show that the equational treatment of ellipsisproposed in (Dalrymple t al., 1991) can furtherbe viewed as modeling the effect of parallelismon semantic interpretation.
I illustrate thisclaim by showing that the account straightfor-wardly extends to a general treatment of sloppyidentity on the one hand, and to deaccented focion the other.
I also briefly discuss the resultsobtained in a prototype implementation.1 In t roduct ion(Dalrymple et al, 1991; Shieber et al, 1996)(henceforth DSP) present a treatment of VP-ellipsis which can be sketched as follows.
An el-liptical construction i volves two phrases (usu-ally clauses) which are in some sense struc-turally parallel.
Whereas the first clause (werefer to it as the source) is semantically com-plete, the second (or target) clause is missingsemantic material which can be recovered fromthe source.Formally the analysis consists of two com-ponents: the representation f the overall dis-course (i.e.
source and target clauses) and anequation which permits recovering the missingsemantics.I Representation Equation I S A R(T1, ?
?
?, Tn) R(S1,..., Sn) = S IS is the semantic representation f the source,$1, .
.
.
,  Sn and T1,... ,Tn are the semantic rep-resentations of the parallel elements in thesource and target respectively and R representsthe relation to be recovered.
The equation issolved using Higher-Order Unification (HOU):Given any solvable equation M = N, HOUyields a substitution of terms for free variablesthat makes M and N equal in the theory ofa/~v-identity.The following example illustrates the work-ings of this analysis:(1) Jon likes Sarah and Peter does too.In this case the semantic representation a d theequation associated with the overall discoursear e:Equation R(j)  = like(j,s)For this equation, HOU yields the substitution1:{R  x.like(x,s)}and as a result, the resolved semantics of thetarget is:Ax.like(x, s)(p) - like(p, s)The DSP approach has become very influen-tial in computational linguistics for two mainreasons.
First, it accounts for a wide range ofobservations concerning the interaction of VP-ellipsis, quantification and anaphora.
Second,it bases semantic onstruction on a tool, HOU,which is both theoretically and computationallyattractive.
Theoretically, HOU is well-definedand well-understood - this permits a clear un-derstanding ofboth the limitations and the pre-dictions of the approach.
Computationally, ithas both a declarative and a procedural inter-pretation - this supports both transparency andimplementation.1As (Dalrymple et al, 1991) themselves observe,HOU also yields other, linguistically invalid, solutions.For a proposal on how to solve this over-generation prob-lem, see (Gardent and Kohlhase, 1996b; Gardent et al,1999).49In this paper, I start (section 2) by clari-fying the relationship between DSP's proposaland the semantic representation of discourseanaphors.
In section 3 and 4, I then show thatthe HOU-treatment ofellipsis naturally extendsto provide:?
A treatment of the interaction between par-allelism and focus and* A general account of sloppy identitySection 6 concludes and compares the approachwith related work.2 Represent ing  d i scourse  anaphorsThe main tenet of the DSP approach is thatinterpreting an elliptical clause involves recov-ering a relation from the source clause and ap-plying it to the target elements.
This leavesopen the question of how this procedure relatesto sentence level semantic onstruction and inparticular to the semantic representation f VP-ellipsis.
Consider for instance the following ex-ample:(2) Jon runs but Peter doesn't.Under the DSP analysis, the unresolved se-mantics of (2) is (3)a and equation (3)b is setup.
HOU yields the solution given in (3)c andas a result, the semantics of the target clausePeter doesn't is (3)d.(3) a. pos(run(jon)) A R(neg)(peter)b. R(pos)(jon) = pos(run(jon))c.d.
O x.O(run(x))(neg)(peter)neg(run(peter))It is unclear how the semantic representa-tion (3)a comes about.
Under a Montague-typeapproach where syntactic ategories map ontosemantic types, the semantic type of a VP-Ellipsis is (et), the type of properties of individ-uals i.e.
unary relations, not binary ones.
Andunder a standard treatment of subject NPs andauxiliaries, one would expect he representationof the target clause to be neg(P(peter)) notP(neg)(peter).
There is thus a discrepancy be-tween the representation DSP posit for the tar-get, and the semantics generated by a standard,Montague-style semantic onstruction module.Furthermore, although DSP only apply theiranalysis to VP-ellipsis, they have in mind amuch broader ange of applications:\[...\] many other elliptical phenom-ena and related phenomena subject omultiple readings akin to the strict andsloppy readings discussed here may beanalysed using the same techniques(Dalrymple t al., 1991, page 450).In particular, one would expect the HOU-analysis to support a general theory of sloppyidentity.
For instance, one would expect it toaccount for the sloppy interpretation (I'll kissyou if you don't want me to kiss you) of (4).
(4) I'll \[help you\] 1 if you \[want me tol\] 2.I'll kiss you if you don't2.But for such cases, the discrepancy betweenthe semantic representation generated by se-mantic construction and the DSP representa-tion of the target is even more obvious.
Assum-ing help and kiss are the parallel elements, theequation generated by the DSP proposal is:R(h) = wt(you, h(i, you)) --+ h(i, you)and accordingly, the semantic representation fthe target is -~R(k) which is in stark contrastwith what one could reasonably expect from astandard semantic onstruction process namely:-~P(you) -+ k(i, you).What is missing is a constraint which statesthat the representation f the target must unifywith the semantic representation generated bythe semantic onstruction component.
If we in-tegrate this constraint into the DSP account,we get the following representations and con-straints:(5)Representation S A R(T1, .
.
.
,Tn)Equations R(S1, .
.
.
,  Sn) = SR(T1, .
.
.
,Tn)  = Twhere T is the semantic representation gener-ated for the target by the semantic onstructionmodule.
The second equation requires that thisrepresentation T unifies with the representationof the target postulated by DSP.With this clarification in mind, example (2) ishandled as follows.
The semantic representation50of (2) is (6)a where the semantic representationof the target clause is the representation onewould expect from a standard Montague-stylesemantic onstruction process.
The equationsare as given in (6)b-c where C represents he se-mantics hared by the parallel structures and Pthe VP-Ellipsis.
HOU then yields the solutionin (6)d: the value of C is that relation sharedby the two structures i.e.
a binary relation asin DSP.
However the value of P (the semanticrepresentation f the VPE) is a property - asbefits a verbal phrase.
(6) a. pos(run(jon)) A neg(P(peter))b.
C(pos)(jon) = pos(run(jon))c. C(neg)(peter) = neg(P(peter))d. {C -+ AOAx.O(run(x)),P)~x.run(x) }e. AO)~xO(run(x))(neg)(peter)neg(run(peter))-.+BIn sum, provided one equation is added tothe DSP system, the  relation between theHOU-approach to VP-ellipsis and standardMontague-style s mantic onstruction becomestransparent.
Furthermore it also becomes im-mediately obvious that the DSP approach doesindeed generalise to a much wider range of datathan just VP-Ellipsis.
The key point is thatthere is now not just one, but several, free vari-ables coming into play; and that although thefree variable C always represents the semanticsshared by two parallel structures, the free vari-able(s) occuring in the semantic representationof the target may represent any kind of un-resolved discourse anaphors - not just ellipsis.Consider the following example for instance:(7) Jon 1 took his1 wife to the station.
No,BILL took his wife to the station.There is no ellipsis in the target, yet thediscourse is ambiguous between a strict and asloppy interpretation 2 and one would expect heHOU-analysis to extend to such cases.
Whichindeed is the case.
The analysis goes as follows.~I assume that in the target ook his wife to the stationis deaccented.
In such cases, it is clear that the ambiguityof his is restricted by parallelism i.e.
is a sloppy/strictambiguity rather than just an ambiguity in the choice ofantecedent.As for ellipsis, anaphors in the source areresolved, whereas discourse anaphors in thetarget are represented using free variables(alternatively, we could resolve them first andlet HOU filter unsuitable resolutions out).Specifically, the target pronoun his is repre-sented by the free variable X and therefore wehave the following representation a d equations:Representation tk(j, wife_of(j), s)Ark(b, wife_of(X), s)Equations C(j) = tk(j, wife_of(j), s)C(b) = tk(b, wife_of(X), s)HOU yields inter alia two solutions for theseequations, the first yielding a strict and the sec-ond, a sloppy reading:{C <-- Az.tk(z, wife_of(j), s), X +- j}{C +-- Az.tk(z, wife_of(z), s), X +- b}Thus the HOU-approach captures cases ofsloppy identity which do not involve ellipsis.More generally, the HOU-approach can beviewed as modeling the effect of parallelism oninterpretation.
In what follows, I substantiatethis claim by considering two such cases: first,the interaction of parallelism and sloppy iden-tity and second, the interaction of parallelismand focus.3 Para l le l ism and FocusSince (Jackendoff, 1972), it is widely agreed thatfocus can affect the truth-conditions of a sen-tence 3.
The following examples illustrate this,where upper-letters indicate prosodic promi-nence and thereby focus.
(8) a. Jon only introduced MARY to Sue.b.
Jon only introduced Mary to SUE.Whereas (8a) says that the only person intro-duced by Jon to Sue is Mary, (8b) states thatthe only person Jon introduced Mary to, is Sue.To capture this effect of focus on semantics,a focus value 4 is used which in essence, is the3The term focus has been put to many different uses.Here I follow (Jackendoff, 1972) and use it to refer tothe semantics of that part of the sentence which is (orcontains an element hat is) prosodically prominent.aThis focus value is defined and termed differentlyby different authors: Jackendoff (Jackendoff, 1972) callsit the presuppositional set, Rooth (Rooth, 1992b) theAlternative Set and Krifka (Krifka, 1992) the Ground.51set of semantic objects obtained by making anappropriate substitution in the focus position.For instance, in (Gaxdent and Kohlhase, 1996a),the focus value of (8a) is defined with the helpof the equation:I Focus Value Equation I Sere = X(F )  Iwhere Sern is the semantic of the sentencewithout the focus operator (e.g.
intro(j,m,s) for(8)), F represents the focus and X helps deter-mine the value of the focus variable (written X)as follows:Def init ion 3.1 (Focus value)Let X = Ax.?
be the value defined by the focusvalue equation and T be the type of x, then theFocus value derivable from X ,  written X ,  is {?
Jx wife}.Given (8a), the focus value equation is thus(9a) with solution (9b); the focus value derivedfrom it is (9c) and the semantics of (8a) is (9d)which given (9c) is equivalent to (9e).
(9) a. intro(j,m,s) = X(m)b.
{X  +-- Ax.
intro( j ,x,s)}c. --X = {intro(j, x, s) I x E wife}d. VP\[P E -X A P -+ P = intro(j,m,s)\]e. VP\[P E {intro(j, x, s) I x E wife} AP ~ P = intro(j,m,s)\]In English: the only proposition of the formJohn introduced x to Sue that is true is theproposition John introduced Mary to Sue.Now consider the following example:(10) a. Jon only likes MARYb.
No, PETER only likes Mary.In a deaccenting context, the focus might bepart of the deaccented material and thereforenot prosodically prominent.
Thus in (10)b, thesemantic focus Mary is deaccented because ofthe partial repetition of the previous utterance.Because they all use focus to determine the fo-cus value and thereby the semantics of sentencessuch as (8a), focus deaccenting is a challengefor most theories of focus.
So for instance, inthe HOU-analysis of both (Pulman, 1997) and(Gaxdent and Kohlhase, 1996a), the right-handside of the focus equation for (10b) becomesFV(F)  where neither FV (the focus value) norF (the focus) are known.
As a result, the equa-tion is untyped and cannot be solved by Huet'salgorithm (Huet, 1976).The solution is simple: if there is no focus,there is no focus equation.
After all, it is thepresence of a focus which triggers the formationof a focus value.But how do we determine the interpretationof (10b)?
Without focus equation, the focusvalue remains unspecified and the representa-tion of (10b) is:VP\[P E FV  A P -+ P = like(p,m)\]which is underspecified with respect o FV.
(Rooth, 1992a) convincingly argues thatdeaccenting and VP-ellipsis are constrainedby the same semantic redundancy constraint(and that VP-ellipsis is additionally subjectto a syntactic onstraint on the reconstructedVP).
Moreover, (Gaxdent, 1999) shows that theequational constraints defined in (5) adequatelychaxacterise the redundancy constraint whichholds for both VPE and deaccenting.
Nowexample (10b) clearly is a case of deaccenting:because it repeats the VP of (10a), the VP onlylikes mary in (10b) is deaccented.
Hence theredundancy constraint holding for both VPEand deaccenting and encoded in (5) applies5:C(j)  = VP\[P G {likeO, x)} A P--+ P = like(j,m)\]C(p) = VP\[P E FV  A P -+ P = like(p,m)\]These equations axe solved by the followingsubstitution:{C +--FV  +-Az.VP\[P E {like(z,x)} A P--+ P = like(z,m)\],{ like (p,x)} }so that the interpretation of (10b) is correctlyfixed to:VP\[P E {like(p,x)} A P --+ P = like(p,m)\]Thus, the HOU approach to deaccentingmakes appropriate predictions about the inter-pretation of "second occurrence xpressions"5For lack of space, I shorten {like(j,x) I x G wife} to{ like(j,x)}52(SOE) 6 such as (10b).
It predicts that for thesecases, the focus value of the source is inheritedby the target through unification.
Intuitively, asort of "parallelism constraint" is at work whichequates the interpretation of the repeated ma-terial in an SOE with that of its source coun-terpart.Such an approach is in line with (Krifka,1992) which argues that the repeated materialin an SOE is an anaphor esolving to its sourcecounterpart.
It is also partially in line withRooth's account in that it similarly posits aninitially underspecified semantics for the target;It is more specific than Rooth's however, as itlifts this underspecification by unification.
Thedifference is best illustrated by an example:(11) ??
Jon only likes SARAH.
No, PETERonly likes Mary.Provided only likes Mary is deaccented, thisdiscourse is ill-formed (unless the secondspeaker knows Sarah and Mary to denote thesame individual).
Under the HOU-analysisthis falls out of the fact that the redundancyconstraint cannot be satisfied as there is nounifying substitution for the following equa-tions:C(j) = VP\[P E {like(j,x)} A P--+ P = like(j,s)\]C(p) = VP\[P ?
FV  A P --+ P = like(p,m)\]In constrast, Rooth's approach does not cap-ture the ill-formedness of (11) as it places noconstraint on the interpretation of PETER onlylikes Mary other than that given by the compo-sitional semantics of the sentence namely:VP\[P E FV  A P --+ P = like(p,m)\]where FV represents he quantification domainof only and is pragmatically determined.
With-out going into the details of Rooth's treatmentof focus, let it suffice to say, that the firstclause does actually provide the appropriate an-tecedent for this pragmatic anaphor so that de-spite its ill-formedness, (11) is assigned a full-fledged interpretation.~The terminology is borrowed from (Krifka, 1995)and refers to expressions which partially or totally re-peat a previous expression.Nonetheless there are cases where pragmaticliberalism is necessary.
Thus consider Rooth'snotorious example:(12) People who GROW rice usually onlyEAT riceThis is understood to mean that peoplewho grow rice usually eat nothing else thanrice.
But as the focus (RICE) and focus value(Ax.eat(pwgr, x)) that need to be inherited bythe target VP only EAT rice are simply notavailable from the previous context, the redun-dancy constraint on deaccenting fails to predictthis and hence, fails to further specify the un-derspecified meaning of (12).
A related case inpoint is:(13) We are supposed to TAKE maths andsemantics, but I only LIKE semantics.Again the focus on LIKE is a contrastive fo-cus which does not contribute information onthe quantification domain of only.
In otherwords, although the intended meaning of thebut-clause is o/ all the subjects that I like,the only subject I like is semantics, the givenprosodic focus on LIKE fails to establish theappropriate set of alternatives namely: all thesubjects that I like.
Such cases clearly involveinference, possibly a reasoning along the follow-ing lines: the but conjunction indicates an ex-pectation denial.
The expectation is that if xtakes maths and semantics then x likes mathsand semantics.
This expectation is thus madesalient by the discourse context and provides infact the set of alternatives necessary to interpretonly namely the set {like(i, sem), like(i, maths)}.To be more specific, consider the representationof I only like semantics:VP\[P E FV  A P --+ P = like(i, sem)\]By resolving FV to the set of propositions{like(i, sem),like(i, maths)}, we get the appro-priate meaning namely:VP\[P E {like(i, sem), like(i, maths)} A P--+ P = like(i, sem)\]Following (Rooth, 1992b), I assume that insuch cases, the quantification domain of bothusually and only are pragmatically determined.53The redundancy constraint on deaccenting stillholds but it plays no role in determining theseparticular quantification domains.4 Sloppy i dent i tyAs we saw in section 2, an important property ofDSP's analysis is that it predicts sloppy/strictambiguity for VP-Ellipsis whereby the multiplesolutions generated by HOU capture the multi-ple readings allowed by natural language.
As(Hobbs and Kehler, 1997; Hardt, 1996) haveshown however, sloppy identity is not necessar-ily linked to VP-ellipsis.
Essentially, it can oc-cur whenever, in a parallel configuration, theantecedent of an anaphor/ellipsis itself containsan anaphor/ellipsis whose antecedent is a par-allel element.
Here are some examples.
(14)(15)(16)Jon 1 /took his1 wife to the station\] 2.No, BILL/took his wife to the station\]2.
(Bill took Bill's wife to the station)Jon 1 spent /hisl paycheck\] 2 but Petersaved it2.
(Peter saved Peter's pay-check)I'll /help you\] 1 if you /want me to1\] 2.I'll kiss you if you don't2.
(I'll kiss youif you don't want me to kiss you)Because the HOU-analysis reconstructs thesemantics common to source and target ratherthan (solely) the semantics of VP-ellipses, it cancapture the full range of sloppy/strict ambigu-ity illustrated above (and as (Gardent, 1997)shows some of the additional examples listed in(Hobbs and Kehler, 1997)).
Consider for in-stance example (16).
The ellipsis in the targethas an antecedent want me to which itself con-tains a VPE whose antecedent (help you) has aparallel counterpart in the target.
As a result,the target ellipsis has a sloppy interpretation aswell as a strict one: it can either denote thesame property as its antecedent VP want me tohelp you, or its sloppy copy namely want me tokiss you.The point to note is that in this case, sloppyinterpretation results from a parallelism be-tween VPs not as is more usual, from a par-allelism between NPs.
This poses no particularproblem for the HOU-analysis.
As usual, theparallel elements (help and kiss) determine theequational constraints o that we have the fol-lowing equalitiesZ:C(h) = wt(you, h(i, you)) -+ h(i, you)C(k) = P(you) --+ k(i, you)Resolution of the first equation yieldsAR.wt(you, R(i, you)) --+ R(i, you) as apossible value for C and consequently, thevalue for C(k) is:C(k) = wt(you, k(i, you)) -+ k(i,  ou)Therefore a possible substitution for P is:{P +-- x.wt(x,k(i ,x))}and the VPE occurring in the target can indeedbe assigned the sloppy interpretation x want meto kiss x.Now consider example (15).
The pronounit occurring in the second clause has a sloppyinterpretation i that it can be interpreted asmeaning Peter's paycheck, rather than Jon'spaycheck.
In the literature such pronouns areknown as paycheck pronouns and are treated asintroducing a definite whose restriction is prag-matically given (cf.
e.g.
(Cooper, 1979)).
Wecan capture this intuition by assigning paycheckpronouns the following representation:Pro ~-~ )~Q.3x\[P(x) A Vy\[P(y)y = x\] A Q(x)\]with P E Wj~(e_+t ) ?
That is, paycheck pronounsare treated as definites whose restriction (P) isa variable of type (e --+ t).
Under this assump-tion, (15) is assigned the following equationsS:C(j, sp) = 31x~)c_of(x, j) A sp(j, x)\]C(p, sa) = 31x\[P(x) A sa(p, x)\]Resolving the first equation yields;~y.
)~O.3xx~)c_of(x, y) A O(y, x)\]as a value for C, and therefore we have that:C(p, sa) = 31xbc_of(x,p ) A sa(p, x)\]{P +-- )~y.pc_of(y, p)}That is, the target clause is correctly assignedthe sloppy interpretation: Peter saved Peter'spaycheck.7For simplicity, I've ommitted polarity information.sI abbreviate )~Q.3x\[P(x)AVy\[P(y) -+  = x\] A Q(x)\]to)~Q.Blx\[P(x) A Q(x)\].54Thus the HOU-treatment of parallelism canaccount for both paycheck pronouns and exam-ples such as (16).
Though lack of space preventsshowing how the other cases of sloppy identityare handled, the general point should be clear:because the HOU-approach associates loppyidentity with parallelism rather than with VP-ellipsis, it can capture a fairly wide range ofdata providing some reasonable assumptions aremade about the representations of ellipses andanaphors.5 Imp lementat ionIt is known that for the typed lambda-calculus,HOU is only semi-decidable so that the unifi-cation algorithm need not terminate for unsolv-able problems.
Fortunately, the class of equa-tions that is needed for semantic onstructionis a very restricted class for which much bet-ter results hold.
In particular, the fact thatfree variables only occur on the left hand sideof our equations reduces the problem of find-ing solutions to higher-order matching, a prob-lem which is decidable for the subclass of third-order formulae (Dowek, 1992).These theoretical considerations have beenput into practice in the research proto-type CHoLI, a system which permits testingthe HOU-approach to semantic construction.Briefly, the system can: parse a sequence of sen-tences and return its semantic representation,interactively build the relevant equations (par-allel elements are entered by the user and thecorresponding equations are computed by thesystem) and solve them by means of HOU.The test-suite includes approximately onehundred examples and covers the following phe-nomena:?
VP-ellipsis and its interaction withanaphora, proper nouns (e.g., Mary,Paul) and control verbs (i.e., verbs suchas try whose subject "control" i.e., isco-referential with some other element inthe verb complement).?
Deaccenting and its interaction withanaphora, VP-ellipsis, context andsloppy/strict ambiguity.?
Focus with varying and ambiguous foci.
Itis currently being extended to sentenceswith multiple foci and the interaction withdeaccenting.As mentioned in section 2 the HOU-approachsometimes over-generates and yields solutionswhich are linguistically invalid.
However as(Gardent et al, 1999) shows, this shortcomingcan be remedied using Higher-Order ColoredUnification (HOCU) rather than straight HOU.In CHOLI both an HOU and an HOCU algo-r ithm can be used and all examples have beentested with and without colors.
In all cases, col-ors cuts down the number of generated readingsto exactly these readings which are linguisticallyacceptable.6 Conc lus ionIt should by now be clear that the DSP-treatment of ellipsis is better seen as a treat-ment of the effect of semantic parallelism: theequations constrain the interpretation of paral-lel structures and as a side effect, a number oflinguistic phenomena are predicted e.g.
VPE-resolution, sloppy/strict ambiguity and focusvalue inheritance in the case of SOEs.There are a number of proposals (Hobbs andKehler, 1997; Priist et al, 1994; Asher, 1993;Asher et al, 1997) adopting a similar approachto parallelism and semantics of which the mostworked out is undoubtly (Hobbs and Kehler,1997).
(Hobbs and Kehler, 1997) presents ageneral theory of parallelism and shows that itprovides both a fine-grained analysis of the in-teraction between VP-ellipsis and pronominalanaphora nd a general account of sloppy iden-tity.
The approach is couched in the "interpre-tation as abduction framework" and consists inproving by abduction that two properties (i.e.sentence or clause meaning) are similar.
Be-cause it interleaves a co-recursion on semanticstructures with full inferencing (to prove sim-ilarity between semantic entities), Hobbs andKehler's approach is more powerful than theHOU-approach which is based on a strictlysyntactic operation (no semantic reasoning oc-curs).
Furthermore, because it can representcoreferences xplicitely, it achieves a better ac-count of the interaction between VP-ellipsisand anaphora (in particular, it accounts for theinfamous "missing reading puzzles" of ellipsis(Fiengo and May, 1994)).On the other hand, the equational approach55provided by the HOU-treatment of parallelismnaturally supports the interaction of distinctphenomena.
We have seen that it correctly cap-tures the interaction of parallelism and focus.Further afield, (Niehren et al, 1997) shows thatcontext unification supports a purely equationaltreatment of the interaction between ellipsis andquantification whereas (Shieber et al, 1996)presents a very extensive HOU-based treatmentof the interaction between scope and ellipsis.AcknowledgmentsI wish to thank the ACL anonymous refer-tees for some valuable comments; and StephanThater, Ralf Debusman and Karsten Konrad fortheir implementation f CHoLI.
The researchpresented in this paper was funded by the DFGin SFB-378, Project C2 (LISA).Re ferencesNicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to abstract ob-jects in discourse.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Nicholas Asher, Daniel Hardt, and Joan Bus-quets.
1997.
Discourse parallelism, scopeand ellipsis.
In Proceedings of SALT'97, PaloAlto.Robin Cooper.
1979.
The interpretation of pro-nouns.
In F. Heny and H.S.
Schnelle, editors,Syntax and Semantics, number 10, pages 61-93.Mary Dalrymple, Stuart Shieber, and FernandoPereira.
1991.
Ellipsis and higher-order unifi-cation.
Linguistics ~ Philosophy, 14:399-452.Gilles Dowek.
1992.
Third order matching isdecidable.
In Proceedings of the 7th AnnualIEEE Symposium on Logic in Computer Sci-ence (LICS-7), pages 2-10.
IEEE ComputerSociety Press.Robert Fiengo and Robert May.
1994.
Indicesand Identity.
MIT Press, Cambridge.Claire Gardent and Michael Kohlhase.
1996a.Focus and higher-order unification.
In Pro-ceedings of COLING'96, Copenhagen.Claire Gardent and Michael Kohlhase.
1996b.Higher-order coloured unification and nat-ural language semantics.
In Proceedings ofA CL '96, Santa Cruz.Claire Gardent, Michael Kohlhase, and KarstenKonrad.
1999.
Higher-order coloured unifi-cation: a linguistic application.
Technique tScience Informatiques, 18(2):181-209.Claire Gardent.
1997.
Sloppy identity.
InChristian Retort, editor, Logical Aspects ofComputational Linguistics, pages 188-207.Springer.Claire Gardent.
1999.
Deaccenting and higher-order unification.
University of the Saarland.Submitted for publication.Daniel Hardt.
1996.
Dynamic interpretation ofvp ellipsis.
To appear in Linguistics and Phi-losophy.J.
Hobbs and A. Kehler.
1997.
A theory of par-allelism and the case of VP ellipsis.
In Pro-ceedings of A CL, Madrid.Gdrard P. Huet.
1976.
Rdsolution d'Equati?nsdans des Langages d'ordre 1,2,...,w. Th~sed'Etat, Universit~ de Paris VII.Ray S. Jackendoff.
1972.
Semantic Interpre-tation in Generative Grammar.
The MITPress.Manfred Krifka.
1992.
A compositional se-mantics for multiple focus constructions.
InJoachim Jacobs, editor, Informationsstrukturand Grammatik.
Heidelberg.
Sonderheft 4.Manfred Krifka.
1995.
Focus and/or context: Asecond look at second occurence xpressions.Unpublished Ms. University of Texas, Austin,February.Joachim Niehren, Manfred Pinkal, and PeterRuhrberg.
1997.
A uniform approach tounderspecification a d parallelism.
In Pro-ceedings of A CL'97, pages 410-417, Madrid,Spain.H.
Priist, R. Scha, and M. van den Berg.1994.
Discourse grammar and verb phraseanaphora.
Linguistics ~ Philosophy, 17:261-327.Steve Pulman.
1997.
Higher order unificationand the interpretation of focus.
LinguisticsPhilosophy, 20:73-115.Mats Rooth.
1992a.
Ellipsis redundancy andreduction redundancy.
In Steve Berman andArild Hestvik, editors, Proceedings of theStuttgart Ellipsis Workshop, University ofStuttgart.Mats Rooth.
1992b.
A theory of focus interpre-tation.
Natural Language Semantics, pages75-116.Stuart Shieber, Fernando Pereira, and MaryDalrymple.
1996.
Interaction of scope and el-lipsis.
Linguistics $J Philosophy, 19:527-552.56
