Pro jec t ing  Corpus -Based  Semant ic  L inks on a Thesaurus*Emmanue l  Mor inIRIN2, chemin de la housini~re - BP 9220844322 NANTES Cedex 3, FRANCEmorin@irin, univ-nant es.
frChr i s t ian  JacqueminLIMSI-CNRSBP 13391403 ORSAY Cedex, FRANCEj acquemin@limsi, frAbst ractHypernym links acquired through an infor-mation extraction procedure are projected onmulti-word terms through the recognition of se-mantic variations.
The quality of the projectedlinks resulting from corpus-based acquisition iscompared with projected links extracted from atechnical thesaurus.1 Mot ivat ionIn the domain of corpus-based terminology,there are two main topics of research: termacquisition--the discovery of candidate terms--and automatic thesaurus construction--the ad-dition of semantic links to a term bank.
Sev-eral studies have focused on automatic acquisi-tion of terms from corpora (Bourigault, 1993;Justeson and Katz, 1995; Daille, 1996).
Theoutput of these tools is a list of unstructuredmulti-word terms.
On the other hand, contri-butions to automatic onstruction of thesauriprovide classes or links between single words.Classes are produced by clustering techniquesbased on similar word contexts (Schiitze, 1993)or similar distributional contexts (Grefenstette,1994).
Links result from automatic acquisi-tion of relevant predicative or discursive pat-terns (Hearst, 1992; Basili et al, 1993; Riloff,1993).
Predicative patterns yield predicative re-lations such as cause or effect whereas discursivepatterns yield non-predicative r lations uch asgeneric/specific or synonymy links.
* The experiments presented in this paper were per-formed on \[AGRO\], a 1.3-million word French corpus ofscientific abstracts in the agricultural domain.
The ter-mer used for multi-word term acquisition is ACABIT(Daille, 1996).
It has produced 15,875 multi-word termscomposed of 4,194 single words.
For expository pur-poses, some examples are taken from \[MEDIC\], a 1.56-million word English corpus of scientific abstracts in themedical domain.The main contribution of this article is tobridge the gap between term acquisition andthesaurus construction by offering a frameworkfor organizing multi-word candidate terms withthe help of automatically acquired links betweensingle-word terms.
Through the extraction ofsemantic variants, the semantic links betweensingle words are projected on multi-word can-didate terms.
As shown in Figure 1, the in-put to the system is a tagged corpus.
A par-tial ontology between single word terms anda set of multi-word candidate terms are pro-duced after the first step.
In a second step,layered hierarchies of multi-word terms are con-structed through corpus-based conflation of se-mantic variants.
Even though we focus here ongeneric/specific relations, the method would ap-ply similarly to any other type of semantic re-lation.The study is organized as follows.
First, themethod for corpus-based acquisition of semanticlinks is presented.
Then, the tool for semanticterm normalization is described together withits application to semantic link projection.
Thelast section analyzes the results on an agricul-tural corpus and evaluates the quality of theinduced semantic links.2 I te ra t ive  Acqu is i t ion  of  HypernymL inksWe first present he system for corpus-based in-formation extraction that produces hypernymlinks between single words.
This system is builton previous work on automatic extraction of hy-pernym links through shallow parsing (Hearst,1992; Hearst, 1998).
In addition, our systemincorporates a technique for the automatic gen-eralization of lexico-syntactic patterns.As illustrated by Figure 2, the system has twofunctionalities:389/ 0 0 0 0 0 0Termer ~-~0 ?
?
?
?
?/Multi-word termsCorpusSingle word hierarchyTermnorrnalizerHierarchies of multi-word termsFigure 1: Overview of the system for hierarchy projection1.
The corpus-based acquisition of lexico-syntactic patterns with respect o a specificconceptual relation, here hypernym.2.
The extraction of pairs of conceptually re-lated terms through a database of lexico-syntactic patterns.Shallow Parser and ClassifierA shallow parser is complemented with a classi-fier for the purpose of discovering new patternsthrough corpus exploration.
This procedure in-spired by (Hearst, 1992; Hearst, 1998) is com-posed of 7 steps:1.
Select manually a representative concep-tual relation, e.g.
the hypernym relation.2.
Collect a list of pairs of terms linked bythe previous relation.
This list of pairs ofterms can be extracted from a thesaurus, aknowledge base or manually specified.
Forinstance, the hypernym relation neocortexIS-A vulnerable area is used.3.
Find sentences in which conceptually re-lated terms occur.
These sentences arelemmatized, and noun phrases are iden-tified.
They are represented as lexico-syntactic expressions.
For instance, theprevious relation HYPERNYM(vulnerablearea, neocortex) is used to extract thesentence: Neuronal damage were foundin the selectively vulnerable areas such asneocortex, striatum, hippocampus and tha-lamus from the corpus \[MEDIC\].
The sen-tence is then transformed into the followinglexico-syntactic expression: 1NP find in NP such as LIST (1)1NP stands for a noun phrase, and LIST for a succes-sion of noun phrases.. Find a common environment that gener-alizes the lexicoosyntactic expressions ex-tracted at the third step.
This environ-ment is calculated with the help of a func-tion of similarity and a procedure of gen-eralization that produce candidate lexico-syntactic pattern.
For instance, from theprevious expression, and at least anothersimilar one, the following candidate lexico-syntactic pattern is deduced:NP such as LIST (2)5.
Validate candidate lexico-syntactic pat-terns by an expert.6.
Use these validated patterns to extract ad-ditional candidate pairs of terms.7.
Validate candidate pairs of terms by an ex-pert, and go to step 3.Through this technique, eleven of the lexico-syntactic patterns extracted from \[AGRO\] arevalidated by an expert.
These patterns are ex-ploited by the information extractor that pro-duces 774 different pairs of conceptually relatedterms.
82 of these pairs are manually selectedfor the subsequent s eps our study because theyare constructing significant pieces of ontology.They correspond to ten topics (trees, chemicalelements, cereals, enzymes, fruits, vegetables,polyols, polysaccharides, proteins and sugars).Automatic  Classification ofLexico-syntactic PatternsLet us detail the fourth step of the precedingalgorithm that automatically acquires lexico-syntactic patterns by clustering similar pat-terns.390Corpus -~LoxicalpreprocessoriBniT:Slp:iP:rs ofterms~~ Lemmadzedand tagged corpus ~Database oflexico-syntactic patternsShallow parser+ classifierInformationextractorLexico-syntacticpatternsPartial hierarchiesof single-word termsJFigure 2: The information extraction systemAs described in item 3. above, pattern(1) is acquired from the relation HYPER-NYM(  vulnerable area, neocortex ).
Similarly,from the relation HYPERNYM(compl icat ion,infection), the sentence: Therapeuticcomplications such as infection, recurrence,and loss of support of the articular surface havecontinued to plague the treatment of giant celltumor is extracted through corpus exploration.A second lexico-syntactic expression is inferred:NP such as LIST continue to plague NP (3)Lexico-syntactic expressions (1) and (3) canbe abstracted as: 2A = AIA2 " ?
Aj ?
.
.
Ak ?
"AnHYPERNYM(A j ,  Ak), k > j + 1and(4)B : B1 B2 " "  B j  .
.
.
.
B k .
.
.
.
B n,HYPERNYM(B j , ,  B k,), k' > j' + 1 (5)Let Sire(A, B) be a function measuring thesimilarity of lexico-syntactic expressions A andB that relies on the following hypothesis:Hypothes is  2.1 (Syntact ic  isomorphy)If two lexico-syntactic expressions A and Brepresent he same pattern then, the items Ajand Bj, ,  and the items Ak and B k, have thesame syntactic function.2Ai is the ith item of the lexico-syntactic expressionA, and n is the number of items in A.
An item can beeither a lemma, a punctuation mark, a symbol, or a tag(N P, LIST, etc.).
The relation k > j 4-1 states that thereis at least one item between Aj and Ak.I winl(A) i wiFq_)ln2fA win3(A) IA = A1 A2 ...... Aj ... Ak ......... AnB = B1 B2 ... Bj'.
....... Bk'... Bn'Figure 3: Comparison of two expressionsLet Win l (A)  be the window built from thefirst through j-1 words, Win2 (A) be the windowbuilt from words ranking from j+ l  th through k-l th  words, and Win3(A) be the window builtfrom k+l th  through nth words (see Figure 3).The similarity function is defined as follows:3Sim(A, B) = E Sim(Wini(A), Wini(B)) (6)i=1The function of similarity between lexico-syntactic patterns S im(Win i (A) ,Win i (B) )  isdefined experimentally as a function of thelongest common string.After the evaluation of the similarity mea-sure, similar expressions are clustered.
Eachcluster is associated with a candidate pattern.For instance, the sentences introduced earliergenerate the unique candidate lexico-syntacticpattern:NP such as LIST (7)We now turn to the projection of automat-ically extracted semantic links on multi-wordterms.
33For more information on the PROMI~THEE system, in3913 Semant ic  Term Normal i za t ionThe 774 hypernym links acquired through theiterative algorithm described in the precedingsection are thus distributed: 24.5% between twomulti-word terms, 23.6% between two single-word terms, and the remaining ones between asingle-word term and a multi-word term.
Sincethe terms produced by the termer are onlymulti-word terms, our purpose in this sectionis to design a technique for the expansion oflinks between single-word terms to links be-tween multi-word terms.
Given a link betweenfruit and apple, our purpose is to infer a simi-lar link between apple juice and fruit juice, be-tween any apple N and fruit N, or between ap-ple N1 and fruit N2 with N1 semantically relatedto N 2.Semant ic  Variat ionThe extension of semantic links between sin-gle words to semantic links between multi-wordterms is semantic variation and the process ofgrouping semantic variants is semantic normal-ization.
The fact that two multi-word termswlw2 and w 1~ w 2~ contain two semantically-related word pairs (wl,w~) and (w2,w~) does notnecessarily entail that Wl w2 and w~ w~ are se-mantically close.
The three following require-ments should be met:Syntact ic isomorphy The correlated wordsmust occupy similar syntactic positions:both must be head words or both must bearguments with similar thematic roles.
Forexample, procddd d'dlaboration (process ofelaboration) is not a variant dlaborationd'une mdthode (elaboration of a process)even though procddd and mdthode are syn-onymous, because procddd is the head wordof the first term while mdthode is the argu-ment in the second term.Unitary semant ic  relationship The corre-lated words must have similar meaningsin both terms.
For example, analyse durayonnement (analysis of the radiation) isnot semantically related with analyse del'influence (analysis of the influence) evenparticular a complete description of the generalizationpatterns process, see the following related publication:(Morin, 1999).though rayonnement and influence are se-mantically related.
The loss of semanticrelationship is due to the polysemy of ray-onnement in French which means influencewhen it concerns a culture or a civilizationand radiation in physics.Holistic semantic relat ionship The thirdcriterion verifies that the global meaningsof the compounds are close.
For example,the terms inspection des aliments (foodinspection) and contrSle alimentaire (foodcontrol) are not synonymous.
The first oneis related to the quality of food and thesecond one to the respect of norms.The three preceding constraints can be trans-lated into a general scheme representing twosemantically-related multi-word terms:Definit ion 3.1 (Semantic  variants) Twomulti-word terms Wl W2 and W~l w~2 are semanticvariants of each other if the three followingconstraints are satisfied: 41. wl and Wll are head words and w2 and wl2are arguments with similar thematic roles.2.
Some type of semantic relation $ holds be-tween Wl and w~ and/or between w2 andwl2 (synonymy, hypernymy, etc.).
The nonsemantically related words are either iden-tical or morphologically related.3.
The compounds wl w2 and Wrl wt2 are alsolinked by the semantic relation S.Corpus-based Semantic  Normal izat ionThe formulation of semantic variation givenabove is used for corpus-based acquisition ofsemantic links between multi-word terms.
Foreach candidate term Wl w2 produced by the ter-mer, the set of its semantic variants satisfyingthe constraints of Definition 3.1 is extractedfrom a corpus.
In other words, a semanticnormalization of the corpus is performed basedon corpus-based semantic links between singlewords and variation patterns defined as all the4wl w2 is an abbreviated notation for a phrase thatcontains the two content words wl and w2 such that oneof both is the head word and the other one an argument.For the sake of simplicity, only binary terms are consid-ered, but our techniques would straightforwardly extendto n-ary terms with n > 3.392licensed combinations of morphological, syntac-tic and semantic links.An exhaustive list of variation patterns is pro-vided for the English language in (Jacquemin,1999).
Let us illustrate variant extraction on asample variation: 5Nt Prep N2 -+M(N1,N) Adv ?
A ?
Prep_Ar.t ?
A ?
S(N2)Through this pattern, a semantic variation isfound between composition du fruit (fruit com-position) and composgs chimiques de la graine(chemical compounds of the seed).
It relies onthe morphological relation between the nounscomposg (compound, .h4(N1,N)) and composi-tion (composition, N1) and on the semanticrelation (part/whole relation) between graine(seed, S(N2)) and fruit (fruit, N2).
In additionto the morphological nd semantic relations, thecategories of the words in the semantic variantcomposdsN chimiquesA deprep laArt graineN sat-isfy the regular expression: the categories thatare realized are underlined.Re la ted  WorkSemantic normalization is presented as semanticvariation in (Hamon et al, 1998) and consistsin finding relations between multi-word termsbased on semantic relations between single-wordterms.
Our approach differs from this precedingwork in that we exploit domain specific corpus-based links instead of general purpose dictio-nary synonymy relationships.
Another origi-nal contribution of our approach is that we ex-ploit simultaneously morphological, syntactic,and semantic links in the detection of semanticvariation in a single and cohesive framework.We thus cover a larger spectrum of linguisticphenomena: morpho-semantic variations suchas contenu en isotope (isotopic content) a vari-ant of teneur isotopique (isotopic composition),syntactico-semantic variants uch as contenu enisotope a variant of teneur en isotope (isotopiccontent), and morpho-syntactico-semantic var -ants such as duretd de la viande (toughness ofthe meat) a variant of rdsistance t la rigiditdde la chair (lit.
resistance and stiffness of theflesh).5The symbols for part of speech categories are N(Noun), A (Adjective), Art (Article), Prep (Preposition),Punc (Punctuation), Adv (Adverb).4 Pro jec t ion  o f  a Single Hierarchyon Mul t i -word  TermsDepending on the semantic data, two modesof representation are considered: a link modein which each semantic relation between twowords is expressed separately, and a classmode in which semantically related words aregrouped into classes.
The first mode corre-sponds to synonymy links in a dictionary orto generic/specific links in a thesaurus uch as(AGROVOC, 1995).
The second mode corre-sponds to the synsets in WordNet (Fellbaum,1998) or to the semantic data provided by theinformation extractor.
Each class is composedof hyponyms haring a common hypernym--named co-hyponyms--and all their common hy-pernyms.
The list of classes is given in Table 1.Analysis of the ProjectionThrough the projection of single word hierar-chies on multi-word terms, the semantic relationcan be modified in two ways:Transfer  The links between concepts (such asfruits) are transferred to another concep-tual domain (such as juices) located at adifferent place in the taxonomy.
Thus thelink between fruit and apple is transferredto a link between fruit juice and apple juice,two hyponyms of juice.
This modificationresults from a semantic normalization ofar-gument words.Specialization The links between concepts(such as fruits) are specialized into parallelrelations between more specific oncepts lo-cated lower in the hierarchy (such as driedfruits).
Thus the link between fruit andapple is specialized as a link between driedfruits and dried apples.
This modificationis obtained through semantic normalizationof head words.The Transfer or the Specialization of a givenhierarchy between single words to a hierarchybetween multi-word terms generally does notpreserve the full set of links.
In Figure 4, theinitial hierarchy between plant products is onlypartially projected through Transfer on juicesor dryings of plant products and through Spe-cialization on fresh and dried plant products.Since multi-word terms are more specific than393Table 1: The twelve semantic lasses acquired from the \[AGRO\] corpusClasses Hypernyrns and cc~hyponymstreeschemical elementscerealsenzymesfruitsolivesapplesvegetablespolyolspolysacchaxidesproteinssugarsarbre, bouleau, chine, drable, h~tre, orme, peuplier, pin, poirier, pommier, sap)n, dpicdadldment, calcium, potassium, magndsium, mangandse, sodium, arsenic, chrome, mercure,sdldnium, dtain, aluminium, fer, cad)urn, cuivrecdrdale, mais, mil, sorgho, bld, orge, riz, avoineenzyme, aspaxtate, lipase, protdasefruit, banane, cerise, citron, figue, fraise, kiwi, no)x, olive, orange, poire, pomme, p~che, raisinfruit, olive, Amellau, Chemlali, Chdtoui, Lucques, Picholine, Sevillana, Sigoisefruit, pomme, Caxtland, Ddlicious, Empire, McIntoch, Spartanldgume, asperge, carotte, concombre, haricot, pois, tomatepolyol, glycdrol, sorbitolpolysaccharide, am)don, cellulose, styrene, dthylbenz~neprotdine, chitinase, glucanase, thaumatin-like, fibronectine, glucanasesucre, lactose, maltose, raffinose, glucose, saccharosep(roduit v~g~tal plant products)cH~ale ~pice fruit l~gurae(cereal) (spice) (fruit) (vegetable)ma)~ or e tomate endive(maize) (b~y)  (tomatoes) (chicory)fruit a noyau fruit ~ p~pins petit fruit(stone frmts) (point fruits) (soft tnlits)(apples) (pears) (grapes) ~ (strawberries)abricot cassis(apricots) " (b lack  currants)Specialization "~kSpecializationTransfer .,~ 1 "~ fruit frais Idgume frais fruit secsdchage de c~r~ale \] s~chage de I~gume (fresh fruits) (fresh vegetables) (dried/~ruits)jus de.fruit (cereal drying) V (vegetable drying) / \  (fruit juice).
.
.
.
.
.
.
~ ....
I ~ sdchagedecarotte fi~u~ee:~Cgsh~?
a=~,~sc  ~c  .~,a carrot m Jus de ananas .
.
,.o~.~ '~7.
'~ ~ / "N~ ( dry" g)(ananas juice) / \  \ .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.  "
'~"  V ~/ "%/ x k .
.
.
.
F sdcha~e de la banane raisinfrais raisin sec j \ ~ secnage ae nz X'anana d in ~ P \ ju~ de raisin (rice drying) \ W ry g, (fresh grapes) (dried grapes)jusdepomme \ (grape juice) \(apple juice) ~jus de poire sdchage de l'abricot(peat juice) (apricot drying)Figure 4: Projected links on multi-word terms (the hieraxchy is extracted from (AGROVOC, 1995))single-word terms, they tend to occur less fre-quently in a corpus.
Thus only some of the pos-sible projected links axe observed through cor-pus exploration.5 Eva luat ionPro jec t ion  o f  Corpus -based  LinksTable 2 shows the results of the projection ofcorpus-based links.
The first column indicatesthe semantic class from Table 1.
The next394three columns indicate the number of multi-word links projected through Specialization, thenumber of correct links and the correspondingvalue of precision.
The same values are pro-vided for Transfer projections in the followingthree columns.Transfer projections are more frequent (507links) than Specializations (77 links).
Someclasses, such as chemical elements, cereals andfruits are very productive because they are com-posed of generic terms.
Other classes, such astrees, vegetables, polyols or proteins, yield fewsemantic variations.
They tend to contain morespecific or less frequent erms.The average precision of Specializations irelatively low (58.4% on average) with a highstandard eviation (between 16.7% and 100%).Conversely, the precision of Transfers is higher(83.8% on average) with a smaller standarddeviation (between 69.0% and 100%).
SinceTransfers are almost ten times more numer-ous than Specializations, the overall precisionof projections i  high: 80.5%.In addition to relations between multi-wordterms, the projection of single-word hierar-chies on multi-word terms yields new candidateterms: the variants of candidate terms producedat the first step.
For instance, sdchage de labanane (banana drying) is a semantic variantof sdchage de fruits (fruit drying) which is notprovided by the first step of the process.
Asin the case of links, the production of multi-word terms is more important with Transfers(72 multi-word terms) than Specializations (345multi-word terms) (see Table 3).
In all, 417 rele-vant multi-word terms are acquired through se-mantic variation.Compar i son  w i th  AGROVOC LinksIn order to compare the projection of corpus-based links with the projection of links ex-tracted from a thesaurus, a similar study wasmade using semantic links from the thesaurus(AGROVOC, 1995).
6The results of this second experiment are verysimilar to the first experiment.
Here, the preci-6(AGROVOC, 1995) is composed of 15,800 descrip-tors but only single-word terms found in the corpus\[AGRO\] are used in this evaluation (1,580 descriptors).From these descriptors, 168 terms representing 4 topics(cultivation, plant anatomy, plant products and flavor-ings) axe selected for the purpose of evaluation.sion of Specializations i similar (57.8% for 45links inferred), while the precision of Transfersis slightly lower (72.4% for 326 links inferred).Interestingly, these results show that links re-sulting from the projection of a thesaurus havea significantly lower precision (70.6%) than pro-jected corpus-based links (80.5%).A study of Table 3 shows that, while 197projected links are produced from 94 corpus-based links (ratio 2.1), only 88 such projectedlinks are obtained through the projection of159 links from AGROVOC (ratio 0.6).
Ac-tually, the ratio of projected links is higherwith corpus-based links than thesaurus links,because corpus-based links represent better theontology embodied in the corpus and associatemore easily with other single word to produceprojected hierarchies.6 PerspectivesLinks between single words projected on multi-word terms can be used to assist terminologistsduring semi-automatic extension of thesauri.The methodology can be straightforwardly ap-plied to other conceptual relations uch as syn-onymy or meronymy.AcknowledgementWe are grateful to Ga~l de Chalendar (LIMSI),Thierry Hamon (LIPN), and Camelia Popescu(LIMSI & CNET) for their helpful commentson a draft version of this article.ReferencesAGROVOC.
1995.
Thdsaurus Agricole Multi-lingue.
Organisation de Nations Unies pourl'Alimentation et l'Agriculture, Roma.Roberto Basili, Maria Teresa Pazienza, andPaola Velardi.
1993.
Acquisition of selec-tional patterns in sublanguages.
MachineTranslation, 8:175-201.Didier Bourigault.
1993.
An endogeneouscorpus-based method for structural nounphrase disambiguation.
In EA CL'93, pages81-86, Utrecht.B~atrice Daille.
1996.
Study and implemen-tation of combined techniques for automaticextraction of terminology.
In Judith L. Kla-vans and Philip Resnik, editors, The Balanc-ing Act: Combining Symbolic and Statistical395Table 2: Precision of the projection of corpus-based linksClasses  Spec ia l i zat ion TransferOcc.
Correct  occ.
Prec is ion  ~ Occ.
Correct  occ.
P rec i s iontreeschemical elementscerealsenzymesfruitsolivesapplesvegetablespolyolspolysaccharidesproteinssugars08 4 50.0%6 1 16.7%3 3 100.0%32 20 62.5%4 1 25.0%4 1 25.0%3 2 66.7%03 1 33.3%013 11 84.6%3 3 100.0%101 99 98.0%76 65 85.5%29 20 69.0%214 172 80.4%10 8 80.0%16 12 75.0%3 3 100.0%013 11 84.6%8 6 75.0%34 26 76.5%Tota l  II 77 45 58.4% 507 425 83.8%Table 3: Production of new terms and correct links through the projection of linksCorpus -based  l inks Thesaurus -based  l inksTerms Re lat ions  Terms Re la t ionsIn i t ia l  l inks I\[ 96 94Specialization 72 30Transfer 345 167Tota l  417 197162 15949 18256 70305 88Approaches to Language, pages 49-66.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet:An Electronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.Gregory Grefenstette.
1994.
Explorations inAutomatic Thesaurus Discovery.
KluwerAcademic Publisher, Boston, MA.Thierry Hamon, Adeline Nazarenko, and C~cileGros.
1998.
A step towards the detection ofsemantic variants of terms in technical docu-meats.
In COLING-A CL'98, pages 498-504,Montreal.Marti A. Hearst.
1992.
Automatic acquisitionof hyponyms from large text corpora.
InCOLING'92, pages 539-545, Nantes.Marti A. Hearst.
1998.
Automated discov-ery of wordnet relations.
In Christiane Fell-baum, editor, WordNet: An Electronic Lexi-cal Database.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Christian Jacquemin.
1999.
Syntagmatic andparadigmatic representation of term vaxia-tion.
In A CL '99, University of Maryland.John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz.
1995.Technical terminology: some linguistic prop-erties and an algorithm for identification intext.
Natural Language Engineering, 1(1):9-27.Emmanuel Morin.
1999.
Using Lexico-syntacticPatterns to Extract Semantic Relations be-tween Terms from Technical Corpus.
InProceedings, 5th International Congress onTerminology and Knowledge Engineering(TKE'99), Innsbriick.Ellen Riloff.
1993.
Automatical ly constructinga dictionay for information extraction tasks.In Proceedings, 11th National Conference onArtificial Intelligence, pages 811-816, Cam-bridge, MA.
MIT Press.Hinrich Schiitze.
1993.
Word space.
InStephen J. Hanson, Jack D. Cowan, and LeeGiles, editors, Advances in Neural Informa-tion Processing Systems 5.
Morgan Kauff-mann, San Mateo, CA.396
