Computational Lexical Semantics, Incrementality, and the So-calledPunctuality of EventsPatrick CAUDALTALANA, UFRL, Universit6 Pads 72, place Jussieu75251 Paris Cedex 05, Francecaudal @ linguist.jussieu.frAbstractThe distinction between achievements andaccomplishments i known to be anempirically important but subtle one.
It isargued here to depend on the atomicity(rather than punctuality) of events, and to bestrongly related to incrementality (i.e., toevent-object mapping functions).
Acomputational treatment of incrementalityand atomicity is discussed in the paper, anda number of related empirical problemsconsidered, notably lexical polysemy in verb- argument relationships.In t roduct ionEver since Vendler (1957) introduced it, the so-called punctuality of achievements has been theobject of many theoretical contests.
After havingdemonstrated that punctuality actually breaks upinto two, distinct notions, namely non-durativityand atomicity, I will argue here for acompositional semantic account of the latter.
Iwill show that (non-)atomicity interacts closelywith the notion of incrementality, asformulatedin Dowty (1991), and that this property of verbsshould be lexically encoded, although it issubject both to semantics and pragmatics-drivenvariations.
I will finally discuss the formalspecifications an NLP system could use to makepredictions about atomicity and incrementality.1.
On Vend ler ' s  so-cal led achievementsVendler (1957) defined achievements andaccomplishments a  respectively punctual anddurative.
He based his claims on two main tests,noting that at <time expression> adverbialscombine with achievements but notaccomplishments, whereas finish combines withaccomplishments but not achievements :(1 a) At what time did you reach the top ?
Atnoon sharp.
(lb) At what moment did you spot the plane ?At 10:53 A.M.(2a) *John finished leaving.
(2b) John finished rawing the circle.Dowty (1986) and Moens and Steedman (1988)decisively questioned the coherence of the classof achievement verbs, arguing that not all ofthem are non-durative.
As noted above, Vendleridentifies punctual events through theconjunction of the (positive) at and (negative)finish tests.
However, they do not always yieldcomparable r sults :(3a)(3b)(4a)(4b)Karpov beat Kasparov at 10.00 P.M.*The Allies beat Germany at I0.00 P.M.* Karpov finished beating KasparovThe Allies finished beating Germany.The at test fails to characterize (3b) as anachievement because it is durative, whereas (3a)passes this very test because it is non-durative.On the contrary, the fnish test in (4) yields anidentical result for the beating of a chess playerand that of a whole nation.
It appears thus thatthe finish test does not indicate non-durativity,contrary to the at test, which refuses durativeevents, and that telic events such as (3b) falloutside Vendler's classification, since they failboth the finish test (unlike accomplishments).AND the at test (unlike achievements).
Since it497is desirable that achievements should includeevents such as (3b), durativity should not beconsidered as a necessary property ofachievements.
The salient common pointbetween (3a) and (3b) is that both events lackproper subparts, i.e., are atomic.
Atomicityshould thus be regarded as the defining propertyof achievements ; it can be tested with finish.2.
Atomicity as a semantic issueMany authors, including Verkuyl (1993) andJackendoff (1996), have denied atomicity anysemantic ontent, and have argued that it is apragmatic category.
I do not intend to claim herethat atomicity is not subject to pragmaticconstraints.
The following examples identify onesuch constraint, i.e., the relative size ofarguments of verbs of consumption :(5a)(Sb)?
?John finished eating the raspberry.The bird finished eating the raspberry.
(5a) suggests that raspberries are so small withrespect o a human 'eater' that eat denotes anatomic event.
But the same does not hold true ofbirds (cf.
(5b)).
No attention will be paid to thiskind of pragmatic onstraint in this paper.Yet I will demonstrate here that atomicity doespossess a semantic ontent, and that therefore itcan be regarded as an aspectual category.Consider the following examples ~ :(6a) *The soldierfinished crossing the border.
(6b) The soldiers finished crossing the border.
(7a) *John finished slamming the door open.
(7b) John finished slamming the doors open.The plural NPs the soldiers and the doorspossess proper subparts, along which thecrossing and slamming events in (6b) and (7b)are measured, making those events non-atomic(there are several distinct subevents of one doorbeing slammed, and of one soldier crossing theborder) ; compare with the atomic (6a) and (7a),where those very NPs are singular.
The variationin noun quantification being a semantic one,1 Similar examples were proposed by Declerck(1979), but were discussed in terms of durativity, andnot of atomicity.atomicity should clearly receive some form ofsemantic ontent.
Moreover, it should be notedthat atomic events are not compatible with theprogressive perfect, whereas non-atomic onesfreely combine with it s :(8a) *The soldier has been crossing theborder.
(OK with iterative, non-atomic reading)(8b) The soldiers have been crossing theborder.Those facts support a semantic view ofatomicity 3.3.
Towards a semantic account : (non-)atomicity and incrementalityThe above data suggests an interesting solutionto this puzzle : atomicity seems to be related tothe notion of inerementality, as formulated inDowty (1991) (see also graduality in Krifka1992).
To my knowledge, the concept ofincrementality (originally proposed to accountfor the telicity of events) has never beendiscussed in the light of that of atomicity,although this is an obvious thing to do, bothconcepts being about the present or absence ofsubevents in the internal structure of events.
Iwill undertake to bridge this gap here.3.1 Incrementality and delimitingargumentsDowty defines incrementality as a property ofverbs whose development can be measuredalong the inner structure of one of theirarguments (which he calls incremental theme) ?
(9) John drank a glass of beer.In (9), the development of the drinking event canbe measured along the subparts of the glass ofbeer.
Each subpart of the incremental themeargument is mapped onto a subpart of the2 Complementary tests such as the different readingsof in etc.
will not be studied here for want of space.3 Caudal (1998) discusses at length related examplesinvolving collection-referring ouns (e.g., orchestraor regiment), and shows that they behave similarly,cf.
The regiment finished crossing the border.498corresponding event (a fact which Dowty (1991)and Krifka (1992) refers to as event-objecthomomorphism).
Dowty (1991) rejectsostensibly the possibility to treat as incrementalthemes the patient arguments of so-calledpunctual (i.e., achievement) verbs, such as slamopen.
According to him, incremental themesshould be able to undergo a gradual change ofstate 4.
Unfortunately, Dowty does not considerexamples such as (7b), which exhibit anincremental behaviour although they include thisvery kind of patient argument.
I will thereforereject Dowty's objection, and regard (7b) asincremental.It follows naturally from the above definitionthat incrementality entails non-atomicity: itimplies that a situation's development possessesproper subparts, and therefore that it is non-atomic.
But does non-atomicity entailincrementality, conversely ?
I.e., are those twonotions equivalent ?
If not, how should they beconnected ?
In order to answer those questionsin the following sections, I will make use of arough feature-based notation: \[+/-ATM\] willexpress atomicity/non-atomicity, and \[+/-INC\]incrementality/non-incrementality.3.2 Non-atomicity with incrementalityI will call delimiting arguments the arguments ofa verb serving as 'measures' (or 'odometers') forthe corresponding event (e.g.
the internalarguments of drink or slam open).
It should benoted that this term is broader than that ofincremental theme, since it includes e.g., patientarguments of so-called punctual verbs, whichDowty refused to regard as incremental themes.For the sake of simplicity, I will focus in thispaper exclusively on internal delimitingarguments :(lOa)(lOb)(lla)(llb)John finished eating his apple.John finished eating his apples.
*John finished throwing his stone.John finished throwing his stones.4 Cf.
Dowty (1991:568): Many traditionalThemes...are not Incremental Themes.
Manyachievement verbs entail a definite change of state inone of their arguments...but never in distinguishableseparate stages, i.e.
subevents.
(10) shows that eat can be \[-ATM\],\[+INC\] bothwith a definite singular and plural delimitingargument, whereas (11) shows that throw can be\[-ATM\],\[+INC\] only with a definite pluraldelimiting argument.
The development of eatinghis apple is measured in (10a) along the quantityof apple remaining to eat, whereas that ofthrowing his stones in ( l ib) is measured alongthe successive individual stones being thrownaway.
I will extend the notion of incrementalityto this latter kind of event-object mapping.Under this view, incrementality arises fromdelimiting arguments, and not only foreincremental themes.
However, I will distinguishtwo types of incrementality, hereby preserving adistinction between Dowty's incrementality andthe extension I proposed.
I will callm-incrementality (for quantity of matter-incrementali~) the type of incrementalityexhibited by (10a) and i-incrementality (forindividual-inerementalitv) that exhibited by(lib).
At least two classes of verbs can bedistinguished in this respect" verbs like eat arecapable of m-incrementality, i.e., incrementalitywith individual-referring delimiting arguments(they have an incremental themes in the sense ofDowty), whereas verbs like throw are onlycapable of i-incrementality, i.e., incrementalitywith collection-referring delimiting arguments(they lack an incremental theme in the sense ofDowty).
Of course, non-atomicity can followfrom either i or m-incrementality.Another type of incremental non-atomic eventscan be found in path-movement verbs :(12) Mary walked the Appalachian trail.
(Tenny 1994)The development of the walking event can bemeasured along the explicit path argument theAppalachian trail in (12).
It is therefore\[-ATM\],\[+INC\].
White (1994) proposed ageneralized path-based incremental theme roleto account for the semantic behaviour of bothpatient and path delimiting arguments, fairlyakin to the present one, since it crucially relieson a similar individual / quantity of matterdistinction.
One could conclude at this point that499the present account of incrementality issufficient to predict (non-)atomicity, and thatnon-atomicity and incrementality are equivalentnotions.
If that is right, then non-incrementalevents should be non-atomic.
However, I willshow in 3.3 that it is not the case.3.3 Non-atomicity without inerementalitySome non-atomic events lack a delimitingargument, so that the type of non-atomicityinvolved seems unrelated to incrementality :(13) John finished igesting his pudding.
(14) John finished cooking the chicken.
(15) John finished registering his son at theuniversity.Contrary to (10) and ( l lb)  , neither (13), (14)nor (15) are (necessarily) measured along thesubparts of their patient arguments.
(13) and(14) are rather measured along the state of thelatter, which vary as time passes.
In this sense,his pudding and the chicken do not behave likedelimiting arguments, and those non-atomicsituations are non-incremental (\[-ATM\],\[-INC\]).Some sort of non-argumental odometer seems tobe required.
In the case of (13) and (14), digestand cook receive a scalar result state, i.e., onethat varies as time passes: John's chickenbecomes (as a whole) closer to being (finally)cooked as time passes in (14), and John'spudding gradually turns (as a whole, and not bitby bit) into nutriments inside his stomach in (13)(see Caudal (1999a/b) for a treatment of suchdata).
I will refer to this kind of incremental-likereading as scalarity.
If one considers (15), thingsare somewhat different, as there exists some sortof predetermined series of stages through whichone should pass in order to register at theuniversity: John's son is closer and closer tobeing registered at the university as his fathergoes through them.
I will refer to this kind ofdata as gradual scenarios.I will turn now to the computational treatment ofincremental non-atomic events (section 4),before suggesting some ways of accounting fornon-incremental non-atomic ones (section 5).4.
A formal, computational treatmentof incremental non-atomic eventsA formal and computational treatment ofincremental non-atomic events will beformulated here, relying on model-theoreticlogics and on the Generative Lexicon framework(GL henceforth ; see Pustejovsky (1995) for anintroduction).
I will first discuss a fewtheoretical notions related to the internalstructure of objects and events, in order toformalize m and i-incrementality.
I will leaveaside the treatment of incremental path-arguments, referring the interested reader toWhite (1994).4.1 Internal structure of objects andevents : Link's part-of operatorsFollowing Link (1983), I will oppose individuals(i.e., the denotata of nouns referring toindividual entities) and collections (i.e., thedenotata of definite plural NPs, collectives, etc.
;see Caudal (1998a)).
Let A be the domain ofentities (events or objects), structured as a semi-lattice.
Let individual_.part_of be a partial orderrelation on individual entities (henceforth i-partor <i), connecting an individual to the collectionit belongs to.
Let Idi be the join operation onindividuals and collections, y a collection and xan individual, such that x is an i-part of y. Thedefinition of the meronymic operator <i wasformulated by Link as follows :(16) Vx,y \[x <i Y ---> x Ui y = y\]Following again G. Link, I will define similarlya partial order relation on non-individual parts,m-part (or -<m), which connects an individualand its non-individual parts (e.g.
a slab of stoneto a rock).
All those operators will apply both toevents and objects in the model (events beingreified).
As a consequence, collection-referringNPs as well as i-incremental events are endowedwith i-parts, whereas individual-referring NPsand m-incremental events possess m-parts.I will argue that incrementality depends both onlexical information and structural composition.Whether events will receive (or not) anincremental reading is determined at thestructural level, depending on the interaction of500a verb with its delimiting arguments (modulopragmatic onstraints).
I will now describe thelexical component of this compositionalprocedure.4.2 Encoding incrementality within theGenerative Lexicon frameworkI will propose here to encode lexically whetherverbs are capable of m-incrementality ori-incrementality.
It should be noted that althoughthe ability to exhibit m-incrementality seems tobe a constant lexical property, any potentiallyincremental verb can receive an i-incrementalreading (but recall that not all verbs can be readincrementally).
In the spirit of Krifka's object-event mapping functions (see K_rifka 1992), Iwill assume an i-inc aspectual semantic rolefunction that relates the i-parts of an argumentto the development of an event (causing it tobecome i-incremental with an appropriatedelimiting argument), and a m-inc function thatrelates the m-parts of an argument o thedevelopment of an event (causing it to becomem-incremental with an appropriate delimitingargument).
The following event/object mappingpredicate MAP-I (applying only to i-incaspectual roles) can be derived from Krifka'sMAP-O/E (mapping to objects/events)predicates ( ee Krifka 1992:39) by replacing hisstandard partial order operator with --<i :(17) MAP-I :VR\[MAP-I(R) ~ MAP-Ei (R) ^  MAP-Oi (R)\]VR\[MAP-Ei (R) ~-~ Ve,x,x' \[R(e,x) ^ x'<i x ---->He' \[e' <i e ^  R(e',x')\] \]VR\[MAP-Oi (R) <---> Ve,e',x \[R(e,x) ^ e'<i e --->qx' \[ x'<i x ^  R(e',x')\] \]A similar formulation can be given form-incrementality ; replace --<i with -<m in (17).Thus, by combining Link's part-of operatorswith Krifka's event-object mapping functions,atomicity construal functions can be formulated.Finally, GL will provide us with the propercomputational lexical machinery in which toinsert those functions : !
will propose to encodethose aspectual roles within the argumentstructure (ARGSTR) feature in GL, by makingthem bear directly on the relevant argumentposition.
The following entries for eat and throwillustrate such an encoding for internalarguments (again, external arguments are leftaside for the sake of simplicity) :throw:ARGSTR =EVENTSTR =QUAL IA  =eatARGSTR =EVENTSTR =QUAL IA  =~GI  = x-' indG2 y: Ind,  i - inc  (y, el)~ i = e~: throw_a~t2 e2 : B inary_RStag~AGENTIVE  = throw_act (ez ,x ,y )~A~ G1 = x=ind G2 y: ind,  m- inc  (y, ex)2 e2 : binary-RStage~AGENTIVE  = eat  ac t (ex ,x ,y )=/ i - inc  (x, e) indicates that the internalstructures of subevent e and argument x arerelated by an homorphic mapping.
If x possessesproper subparts, then e will be incremental ; thewhole point remains that incrementality islexically licensed but structurally construed.
TheBinary_RStage subevent refers to the complexresult state (Result Stage ; cf.
Caudal 1999b)attached to a transition such as eat.
Its binarystructure xpresses a change-of-state.
I will nowconsider some difficulties related to lexicalpolysemy and verb-argument relationships.4.3 Lexical polysemy and incrementalityI assume here that the incrementality functionsi-inc / m-inc are lexically specified.
Yet the fullstory is a lot more complicated.
Much datasuggests that those functions can be modified ordetermined (when they are lexicallyunderspecified) in context.
An overview of anumber of problems and a tentative treatmentwithin GL will be proposed here.4.3.1 Co-composition and inerementalityThe machinery proposed above is not sufficientto account for subtle cases of lexical polysemyoriginating in the interaction between the verband its arguments.
Some data would be besttreated in terms of co-compostion within GL 5 :5 Roughly, co-composition refers to cases of lexicalpolysemy in which a lexical item receives a 'new'501(18a)(18b)*Le moteur acheva de produire un bruitdtrange.The engine finished emitting a strangenoise.Yannig acheva de produire son article.Yannig finished writing his paper.The French verb produire yields ani-incremental reading in (18a), vs. am-incremental reading in (18b).
Arguably,produire means 'to cause to come intoexistence', and therefore makes use of thecontent of the AGENTIVE qualia role (i.e., thequalia role indicating how a type is brought intoexistence) of its internal argument to determinethe corresponding 'creation' event.
TheAGENTIVE roles of bruit and article can berepresented asfollows :(19) Fbrult ARGI =.. sound I I A R S T R  =~ UALIA AGENT IVE = | ~4  t_sound (e, y, x ) J(20) IAR rt icleGSTR = ARGI = x : info IUALIA= AGENTIVE = write(e,y,x)~By virtue of the co-composition operationinvolving events pecified in the AGENTIVE ofbruit and article, produire interacts differentlywith its internal argument, and receives differentevent structures.
The e~_ e_so~-aa (e, y, z) eventin (19) comes along an i - inc  function mappingthe internal argument x onto e, while thewr iee(e ,y ,x )  event in (20) comes along an,--inc function mapping z onto e. In fact, thewhole event structure of those AGENTIVE rolestogether with their incrementality functionsoverride those lexically specified by default forproduire.Another limit of GL until recent work (cf.
Asherand Pustejovsky 1999) was its inability toconstrue more versatile qualia role information.Consider the following case of co-composition :sense (i.e., one not considered to be lexicalized)through the contribution of another lexical item withwhich it combines.
See Pustejovsky (1995).
(2 la) Yannigfinished hiding the bike.
(2 lb) * Yannigfinished hiding the truth.Hide x arguably means 'to remove x fromaccessibility', and obviously the notion of'accessibility' diverges when x is a physicalobject (21a) or a proposition (21b).
This kind ofphenomenological information might beencoded in the FORMAL role for thecorresponding super-types and triggered in thiscontext, but a detailed implementation still hasto be worked out.
See Asher and Pustejovsky(1999) for a discussion of such issues.4.3.2 Other cases of polysemyLast but not least, many cases of apparentpolysemy in the incrementality functionsactually arise from the coercion of affectedarguments :(22a) Yannig a fini de ranger sa chambre.Yannig finished tidying up his room.
(22b) * Yannig a fini de ranger son livre.
(gradual scenarios being left aside)Yannig finished putting away his book.Ranger receives an incremental reading withchambre in (22a), and no incremental reading in(22b), so that it seems to be properly neitheri-incremental nor m-incremental.
The way out ofthis puzzle is the following : ranger is lexicallyencoded as capable of i-incrementality but not ofm-incrementality, and the aspectual polysemy ofranger sa chambre originates in the polysemy ofchambre.
Although there is no question thatchambre normally refers to an individual, itsmeaning is coerced into a collective one in(22a).
More precisely, chambre is coerced froman individual real estate sense(immovable_phys obj) to a collection senseinvolving the individual objects possiblyenclosed within a room (movable_phys_obj),since only the latter is compatible with ranger.One way of accounting for such coercionswithin GL would be to associate with theCONST qualia role of chambre such a collectionof instances of the movable_phys__obj type, theCONST role describing the meronymicconstitution of a type.502In fact, the ability to trigger this very kind ofcoercion seems to be a general property of verbsaddressing their arguments through theirFORMAL role (i.e., requiring natural types -centrally defined through their CONST andFORMAL - and not functional types - centrallydefined through their AGENTIVE and TELIC ;see Pustejovsky 1999).
Such verbs are usuallyable to access their arguments' semantics asindividuals through their FORMAL role, and ascollections of individuals through their CONSTrole, if the FORMAL individual does not meetthe selectional restrictions imposed by the verb,or other semantic onstraints.
See Caudal (1998)for detailed evidence of this, and for a tentativesolution within GL to the problems raised by thepolysemy of collective nouns (e.g., regiment,police and forest), which exhibit a similarbehaviour, i.e., can either efer to individuals orto collections.
Finally, it should be noted thathomeomeronymic nouns (i.e., whose parts andwhole refer to the same lexical type, e.g.
estateor property seen as land surfaces, or quantity ofmatter nouns, such as gold or milk ; see Winstonet al (1987)) offer other interesting propertiesw.r.t, to incrementality/atomicity.
I will notdiscuss them here for want of space.To put it in a nutshell, even prima facieindividual-referring ouns such as chambre canbehave like collection-referring ones undercertain circumstances, making i-incrementalreadings of normally atomic events possible.
Letus move now to some concluding remarks aboutnon-incremental non-atomic events.5.
On the formal treatment of non-incremental non-atomic eventsI have shown above that the notion ofincrementality fell short of explaining the non-atomicity of (13), (14), and (15).
I will suggesthere a solution based on an extended conceptionof result states.The non-incremental, non-atomic eventsdiscussed in 3.3 seem to fall into at least twodistinct subclasses : scalar events (cf.
(13)/(14))vs. "gradual scenario" events (cf.
(15)).
I willfocus on the former class, the latter classoriginating clearly in a pragmatic phenomenon 6.It should be noted that many resultativeconstructions (e.g., pound the metal flat; seeLevin and Rappaport 1995) also receive scalarreadings, making the phenomenon a fairlywidespread one.\It is a fact that the notions of affectedness andincrementality / event-object mapping do notapply to scalar events.
Affectedness indicatesthat an argument undergoes an incremental (cf.eat) or a definite change of state (cf.
throw), andnot a gradual bu___!t total one, as in the case ofscalar verbs (their delimiting arguments aregradually changing as a whole, and not bit bybit).
(14) is telic and non-atomic because thechicken goes through successive states of'cookedness' (i.e., result states) before reachinga final state, and not because of some event-object mapping function in the spirit of Krifka(1992).
Therefore, the telicity of scalar eventscan only be explained by reference to this scalarchange of state, which entails itself a scalarresult state.
Encoding a richer information aboutresult states in the lexical entries of such verbs,as proposed in Caudal (1999a/b), would allow usto account elegantly for this kind of non-atomic,non-incremental, telic readings of events.This new conception of result states provide uswith a unified account 7 of (non)-atomicity,incrementality and telicity - a result whichgeneralized paths cannot achieve for reasonsexposed above, and others not discussed here.Indeed, even the non-incremental, non-atomicevents tudied in 3.3 (except (15), but then againthis is a pragmatic issue) can also be accountedfor in this manner, and path-argument verbs canalso be analysed in terms of result states ifchanges of location undergone by arguments aretreated as changes-of-state.6 Note that contrary to scalar events and incrementalevents, "gradual scenarios" do not combine with theprogressive perfect, of.
*John has been registering hisson at the university.
This fact suggests that theyshould be set apart from other non-atomic events, andpossibly receive subevents of a different kind.7 See Caudal (1999b), where incremental vs. scalarRStages are introduced.503ConclusionIt has been demonstrated in this paper that theso-called punctuality of achievements should bereduced to the notion of atomicity.
Formalmeans to calculate it within an NLP system havebeen discussed; see White (1994) for acomputational implementation of relatedinterest, in a similar spirit.
The machineryexposed above can be used to predict whether anevent should be considered as anaccomplishment (non-atomic event; possessessubevents) or an achievement (atomic event;lacks any subevent).The above developments revealed that(non-)atomicity is at least partly amenable to acompositional semantic procedure, and does notfall altogether under the scope of pragmatics.
Ithas been shown to be directly related toincrementality in many cases, though not in allcases.
In order to construe incremental non-atomic events, I proposed to encodem-incrementality vs. i-incrementality in thelexicon, before discussing the accessibility of theinternal structure of delimiting argument NPs ; Isuggested a solution to the problems raised bythe polysemous internal structure of certainnouns.
Finally, a tentative result-state basedaccount of non-incremental non-atomic eventshas been proposed.
I even claimed that it canexplain all types of non-atomicity and evenincrementality in a unified way, and thereforemight surpass all the existing accounts of eventstructure.ReferencesAsher, N. and J. Pustejovsky (1999) TheMetaphysics of Words in Context.
Ms., BrandeisUniversity.Caudal, P. (1998) Using Complex Lexical Types toModel the Polysemy of Collective Nouns within theGenerative Lexicon.
Proceedings of DEXA98,IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos, pp.
154-160.Caudal, P. (1999a) Resultativity in French - A Studyin Contrastive Linguistics.
Paper presented at the29 t~ Linguistic Symposium on RomanceLanguages, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,MI, April.Caudal, P. (1999b) Result Stages and the Lexicon :The Proper Treatment of Event Structure.Proceedings of the 9 th Conference of the EuropeanChapter of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Bergen, Norway, June.Declerck, R. (1979).
Aspect and thebounded/unbounded (telic/atelic) distinction.Linguistics 17, pp.
761-794.Dowty, D. (1986) The Effects of Aspectual Class onthe Temporal Structure of Discourse : Semantics orPragmatics ?
Linguistics and Philosophy, 9, pp.
37-61.Dowty, D. (1991) Thematic Proto-Roles andArgument Selection.
Languages 67/3, pp.
547-619.Jackendoff, R. (1996) The Proper Treatment ofMeasuring Out, Telicity and Perhaps EventQuantification in English.
Natural Language andLinguistic Theory, 14, pp.
305-354.Krifka, M. (1992) Thematic Relations as Linksbetween Nominal Reference and TemporalConstitution.
In Lexical Matters, I.
Sag and A.Szabolsci, eds., CSLI, Stanford, CA, pp.
29-53.Levin, B. and M. Rappaport Hovav (1995)Unaccusativity: At the Syntax - Lexical SemanticsInterface.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Link, G. (1983) The Logical Analysis of Plurals andMass Terms.
in R. Baiierle, C. Schwarze and A.von Stechow (eds.
), Meaning, Use andInterpretation of Language, Walter de Gruyter,Berlin, pp.
302-323.Moens, M. and M. Steedman (1988) TemporalOntology and Temporal Reference.
ComputationalLinguistics, 14/2, pp.15-28.Pustejovsky, J.
(1995) The Generative Lexicon.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Pustejovsky, J.
(1999) Decomposition and TypeConstruction.
Ms., Brandeis University.Tenny, C. (1994) Aspectual Roles and the Syntax-Semantics Interface, Kluwer, Dordrecht.Vendler, Z.
(1957) Verbs and Times.
ThePhilosophical Review, 66, pp.
143-160.Verkuyl, H. (1993) A Theory of Aspectuality.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Winston, M.E., R. Chaffin and D. Hermann (1987)A taxonomy of part-whole relations.
CognitiveScience, 11, pp.
417-444.White, M. (1994) A Computational Approach toAspectual Composition.
Unpublished Ph.D.dissertation, Institute for Research in CognitiveScience, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.AcknowledgementsMany thanks to James Pustejovsky for the veryfruitful discussions we had about incrementality.504
