The grapho-phonological system of written French: Statisticalanalysis and empirical validationMarielle LangeLaboratory of Experimental Psychology,Universit6 Libre de BruxeUesAv.
F.D.
Roosevelt, 50Bruxelles, Belgium, B 1050 Bruxellesmlange@ulb.ac.beAlain ContentLaboratory of Experimental Psychology,Universit6 Libre de BruxellesAv.
F.D.
Roosevelt, 50Bruxelles, Belgium, B 1050 Bruxellesacontent@ulb.ac.beAbstractThe processes through which readers evokemental representations of phonological formsfrom print constitute a hotly debated andcontroversial issue in current psycholinguistics.
Inthis paper we present a computational nalysis ofthe grapho-phonological system of writtenFrench, and an empirical validation of some of theobtained escriptive statistics.
The results providedirect evidence demonstrating that both graphemefrequency and grapheme entropy influenceperformance on pseudoword naming.
We discussthe implications of those findings for currentmodels of phonological coding in visual wordrecognition.Introduct ionOne central characteristic of alphabetic writingsystems is the existence of a direct mappingbetween letters or letter groups and phonemes.
Inmost languages, although to a varying extent, themapping from print to sound can be characterizedas quasi-systematic (Plaut, McClelland,Seidenberg, & Patterson, 1996; Chater &Christiansen, 1998).
Thus, descriptively, inaddition to a large body of regularities (e.g.
thegrapheme CH in French regularly maps onto/~/),one generally observes isolated deviations (e.g.CH in CHAOS maps onto /k / )as  well asambiguities.
In some cases but not always, thesedifficulties can be alleviated by considering higherorder regularities uch as local orthographicenvironment (e.g., C maps onto /k/ o r / s /  as afunction of the following letter), phonotactic andphonological constraints as well as morphologicalproperties (Cf.
PH in PHASE vs. SHEPHERD).One additional difficulty stems from the fact thatthe graphemes, the orthographic counterparts ofphonemes, can consist either of single letters or ofletter groups, as the previous examples illustrate.Psycholinguistic theories of visual wordrecognition have taken the quasi-systematicity ofwriting into account in two opposite ways.
In oneframework, generally known as dual-routetheories (e.g.
Coltheart, 1978; Coltheart, Curtis,Atkins, &Hal ler,  1993), it is assumed thatdominant mapping regularities are abstracted toderive a tabulation of grapheme-phonemecorrespondence rules, which may then be lookedup to derive a pronunciation for any letter string.Because the rule table only captures the dominantregularities, it needs to be complemented bylexical knowledge to handle deviations andambiguities (i.e., CHAOS, SHEPHERD).
Theopposite view, based on the parallel distributedprocessing framework, assumes that the whole setof grapho-phonological regularities is capturedthrough differentially weighted associationsbetween letter coding and phoneme coding unitsof varying sizes (Seidenberg & McClelland, 1989;Plaut, Seidenberg, McClelland & Patterson,1996).These opposing theories have nourished anongoing complex empirical debate for a numberof years.
This controversy constitutes one instanceof a more general issue in cognitive science,which bears upon the proper explanation of rule-like behavior.
Is the language user's capacity toexploit print-sound regularities, for instance togenerate a plausible pronunciation for a new,unfamiliar string of letters, best explained byknowledge of abstract all-or-none rules, or of the436statistical structure of the language?
We believethat, in the field of visual word processing, thelack of precise quantitative descriptions of themapping system is one factor that has impededresolution of these issues.In this paper, we present a descriptive analysis ofthe grapheme-phoneme apping system of theFrench orthography, and we further explore thesensitivity of adult human readers to somecharacteristics of this mapping.
The resultsindicate that human naming performance isinfluenced by the frequency of graphemic units inthe language and by the predictability of theirmapping to phonemes.
We argue that these resultsimplicate the availability of graded knowledge ofgrapheme-phoneme appings and hence, thatthey are more consistent with a parallel distributedapproach than with the abstract rules hypothesis.. Statistical analysis of grapho-phonological correspondences ofFrench1.1.
MethodTables of grapheme-phoneme associations(henceforth, GPA) were derived from a corpus of18.510 French one-to-three-syllable words fromthe BRULEX Database (Content, Mousty, &Radeau, 1990), which contains orthographic andphonological forms as well as word frequencystatistics.
As noted above, given that graphemesmay consist of several letters, the segmentation fletter strings into graphemic units is a non-trivialoperation.
A semi-automatic procedure similar tothe rule-learning algorithm developed byColtheart et al (1993) was used to parse wordsinto graphemes.First, grapheme-phoneme associations aretabulated for all trivial cases, that is, words whichhave exactly the same number of graphemes andphonemes (i.e.
PAR,/paR/).
Then a segmentationalgorithm is applied to the remaining unparsedwords in successive passes.
The aim is to selectwords for which the addition of a single new GPAwould resolve the parsing.
After each pass, thenew hypothesized associations are manuallychecked before inclusion in the GPA table.The segmentation algorithm proceeds as follows.Each unparsed word in the corpus is scanned fromleft to right, starting with larger letter groups, inorder to find a parsing based on tabulated GPAswhich satisfies the phonology.
If this fails, a newGPA will be hypothesized if there is only oneunassigned letter group and one unassignedphoneme and their positions match.
For instance,the single-letter grapheme-phoneme associationstabulated at the initial stage would be used tomark the P-/p/and R-/R/correspondences in theword POUR (/puRl) and isolate OU-/u/as a newplausible association.When all words were parsed into graphemes, a80706050403020100Grapheme-PhonemeAssociation ProbabilityFigure 1.
Distribution of Grapheme-Phoneme Associationprobablity, based on type measures.70 Grapheme Entropy (H)60 !
Most unpredictable graphemes50 !
(H ?
.90)Vowels: e, oe, u, ay, eu, 'i40 Consonants: x, s, t, g, II, c3o2010oo ~ d o d o d o o d .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.Figure2.
D is~ibut ionof~aphemeEn~y(H)  values,b~on~eme~rcs .437Predictibility of Grapheme-Phoneme Associations in FrenchGPA probability GPA probability H (type) H (token)(type) (token)Numberofpmnunci=ionsM SD M SD M SD M SD M SDAll 1.70 (1.26) .60 (.42) .60 (.43) .27 (.45) .23 (.42)Vowels 1.66 (1.12) .60 (.41) .60 (.44) .29 (.48) .21 (.41)Consonants 1.76 (1.23) .60 (.42) .60 (.42) .25 (.42) .26 (.44)Table I.
Number of different pronunciations of a grapheme, grapheme-phoneme association (GPA) probability, andentropy (H) values, by type and by token, for French polysyllabic words.final pass through the whole corpus computedgrapheme-phoneme association frequencies, basedboth on a type count (the number of wordscontaining a given GPA) and a token count (thenumber of words weighted by word frequency).Several statistics were then extracted to provide aquantitative description of the grapheme-phonemesystem of French.
(1) Grapheme frequency, thenumber of occurrences of the grapheme in thecorpus, independently of its phonological value.
(2) Number of alternative pronunciations foreachgrapheme.
(3) Grapheme entropy as measured byH, the information statistic proposed by Shannon(1948) and previously used by Treiman,Mullennix, Bijeljac-Babic, & Richmond-Welty(1995).
This measure is based on the probabilitydistribution of the phoneme set for a givengrapheme and reflects the degree of predictabilityof its pronunciation.
H is minimal and equals 0when a grapheme is invariably associated to onephoneme (as for J and/3/ ) -  H is maximal andequals logs n when there is total uncertainty.
Inthis particular case, n would correspond to thetotal number of phonemes in the language (thus,since there are 46 phonemes, max H = 5.52).
(4)Grapheme-phoneme association probability,which is the GPA frequency divided by the totalgrapheme frequency.
(5) Association dominancerank, which is the rank of a given grapheme-phoneme association among the phonemicalternatives for a grapheme, ordered by decreasingprobability.1.2.
ResultsDespite its well-known complexity and ambiguityin the transcoding from sound to spelling, theFrench orthography is generally claimed to bevery systematic in the reverse conversion ofspelling to sound.
The latter claim is confirmed bythe present analysis.
The grapheme-phonemeassociations system of French is globally quitepredictable.
The GPA table includes 103graphemes and 172 associations, and the meanassociation probability is relatively high (i.e.,0.60).
Furthermore, a look at the distribution ofgrapheme-phoneme association probabilities(Figure 1) reveals that more than 40% of theassociations are completely regular andunambiguous.
When multiple pronunciations exist(on average, 1.70 pronunciations for a grapheme),the alternative pronunciations are generallycharacterized by low GPA probability values (i.e.,below 0.15).The predictability of GPAs is confirmed by a verylow mean entropy value.
The mean entropy valuefor all graphemes i  0.27.
As a comparison point,if each grapheme in the set was associated withtwo phonemes with probabilities of 0.95 and 0.05,the mean H value would be 0.29.
There is nonotable difference between vowel and consonantpredictability.
Finally, it is worth noting that ingeneral, the descriptive statistics are similar fortype and token counts.2.
Empirical study: Grapheme frequencyand grapheme ntropyTo assess readers' sensitivity to graphemefrequency and grapheme ntropy we collectednaming latencies for pseudowords contrasted onthose two dimensions.438I I ?
I I  I ?Grapheme Frequency Grapheme EntropyLow High Low HighLatenciesImmediate Naming 609 (75) 585 (66) 596 (72) 644 (93)Delayed Naming 335 (42) 342 (53) 333 (51) 360 (54)Delta Scores 274 (94) 243 (84) 263 (94) 284 (105)ErrorsImmediate Naming 8.1 (7.0) 8.9 (5.8) 9.2 (4.7) 14.2 (7.3)Dela~ced Namin~ 2.7 ~3.41 3.9 ~5.7) 2.5 ~2.4 / 8.0 ~6.3 /Table 2.
Average reaction times and errors for the grapheme frequency and grapheme entropy (uncertainty)manipulations (standard deviations are indicated into parentheses) in the immediate and delayed naming tasks.2.1.
MethodParticipants.
Twenty French-speaking studentsfrom the Free University of Brussels took part inthe experiment for course credits.
All had normalor corrected to normal vision.Materials.
Two lists of 64 pseudowords wereconstructed.
The first list contrasted graphemefrequency and the second manipulated graphemeentropy.
The grapheme frequency and graphemeentropy estimates for pseudowords werecomputed by averaging respectively graphemefrequency or grapheme entropy across allgraphemes in the letter string.
Low and highvalues items were selected among the lowest 30%and highest 30% values in a database of about15.000 pseudowords constructed by combiningphonotactically legal consonant and vocalicclusters.The frequency list comprised 32 pairs of items.
Ineach pair, one pseudoword had a high averagedgrapheme frequency, and the other had a lowaveraged grapheme frequency, with entropy keptconstant.
Similarly, the entropy list included 32pairs of pseudowords with contrasting averagevalues of entropy and close values of averagegrapheme frequency.In addition, stimuli in a matched pair werecontrolled for a number of orthographic propertiesknown to influence naming latency (number ofletters and phonemes; lexical neighborhood size;number of body friends; positional and nonpositional bigram frequency; graphemesegmentation probability; grapheme complexity).Procedure.
Participants were tested individuallyin a computerized situation (PC and MELexperimentation software).
They weresuccessively tested in a immediate naming and adelayed naming task with the same stimuli.
In theimmediate naming condition, participants wereinstructed to read aloud pseudowords as quicklyand as accurately as possible, and we recordedresponse times and errors.
In the delayed namingtask, the same stimuli were presented in adifferent random order, but participants wererequired to delay their overt response until aresponse signal appeared on screen.
The delayvaried randomly from trial to trial between 1200and 1500 msec.
Since participants are instructedto fully prepare their response for overtpronunciation during the delay period, the delayednaming procedure is meant o provide an estimateof potential artefactual differences betweenstimulus sets due to articulatory factors and todifferential sensitivity of the microphone tovarious onset phonemes.Pseudowords were presented in a random order,different for each participant, with a pause afterblocks of 32 stimuli.
They were displayed inlower case, in white on a black background.
In theimmediate naming task, each trial began with afixation sign (*) presented at the center of thescreen for 300 msec.
It was followed by a blackscreen for 200 msee and then a pseudoword whichstayed on the screen until the vocal responsetriggered the microphone or for a maximum delayof 2000 msec.
An interstimulus screen was finallypresented for 1000 msee.
In the delayed namingtask, the fixation point and the black screen were439followed by a pseudoword presented for 1500msec, followed by a random delay between 1300and 1500 msec.
After this variable delay, a gosignal (####) was displayed in the center of thescreen till a vocal response triggered themicrophone or for a maximum duration of 2000msec.
Pronunciation errors, hesitations andtriggering of the microphone by extraneous noiseswere noted by hand by the experimenter duringthe experiment.2.2.
ResultsData associated with inappropriate riggering ofthe microphone were discarded from the erroranalyses.
In addition, for the response timeanalyses, pronunciation errors, hesitations, andanticipations in the delayed naming task wereeliminated.
Latencies outside an interval of twostandard eviations above and below the mean bysubject and condition were replaced by thecorresponding mean.
Average reaction times anderror rates were then computed by subjects and byitems in both the immediate naming and thedelayed naming task.
By-subjects and by-items(Ft and F2, respectively) analyses of variancewere performed with grapheme frequency andgrapheme entropy as within-subject factors.Grapheme frequency.
For naming latencies,pseudowords of low grapheme frequency wereread 24 msec more slowly than pseudowords ofhigh grapheme frequency.
This difference washighly significant both by subjects and by items;Fj(1, 19) = 24.4, p < .001, Fe(1, 31) = 7.5, p <.001.
On delayed naming times, the samecomparison gave a nonsignificant difference of-7msec.
For pronunciation errors, there was nosignificant difference in the immediate namingtask.
In the delayed naming task, pseudowords oflow mean grapheme frequency caused 1.2% moreerrors than high ones.
This difference wasmarginally significant by items, but not significantby subjects; F2(1, 31) = 3.1,p < .1.Grapheme ntropy.
In the immediate namingtask, high-entropy pseudowords were read 48msec slower than low-entropy pseudowords; FI(1,19) = 45.4,p < .001, Fe(1, 31) = 16.2,p < .001.
Inthe delayed naming task, the same comparisonshowed a significant difference of 27 msec; FI(1,19) = 22.9 p < .001, F2(1, 31) = 12.5, p < .005.Because of this articulatory effect, delta scoreswere computed by subtracting delayed namingtimes from immediate naming times.
A significantdifference of 21 msec was found on delta scores;FI(1, 19) = 5.7,p < .05, F2(1, 31) = 4.7,p < .05.The pattern of results was similar for errors.
In theimmediate naming task, high-entropypseudowords caused 5% more errors than low-entropy pseudowords.
This effect was significantby subjects but not by items; Ft(1, 19) = 7.4, p <.05, F2(1, 31) = 2.1,p > .1.
The effect was of 6.5%in the delayed naming task and was significant bysubjects and items; FI(1, 19) = 17.2, p < .001,F2(1, 31) = 8.3,p < .01.2.3.
DiscussionA clear effect of the grapheme frequency and thegrapheme ntropy manipulations were obtainedon immediate naming latencies.
In bothmanipulations, the stimuli in the contrasted listswere selected pairwise to be as equivalent aspossible in terms of potentially importantvariables.A difference between high and low-entropypseudowords was also observed in the delayednaming condition.
The latter effect is probablydue to phonetic characteristics of the initialconsonants in the stimuli.
Some evidenceconfirming this interpretation is adduced from afurther control experiment in which participantswere required to repeat the same stimuli presentedauditorily, after a variable response delay.
The 27msec difference in the visual delayed namingcondition was tightly reproduced with auditorystimuli, indicating that the effect in the delayednaming condition is unrelated to print-to-soundconversion processes.
Despite this unexpectedbias, however, when the influence of phoneticfactors was eliminated by computing thedifference between immediate and delayednaming, a significant effect of 21 msec remained,demonstrating that entropy affects grapheme-phoneme conversion.These findings are incompatible with currentimplementations of the dual-route theory(Coltheart et aL, 1993).
The "central dogma" ofthis theory is that the performance of humansubjects on pseudowords i  accounted for by ananalytic process based on grapheme-phonemeconversion rules.
Both findings are at odds withthe additional core assumptions that (1) only440dominant mappings are retained as conversionrules; (2) there is no place for ambiguity orpredictability in the conversion.In a recent paper, Rastle and Coltheart (1999) notethat "One refinement of dual-route modeling thatgoes beyond DRC in its current form is the ideathat different GPC rules might have differentstrengths, with the strength of the correspondencebeing a function'of, or example, the proportion ofwords in which the correspondence occurs.Although simple to implement, we have notexplored the notion of rule strength in the DRCmodel because we are not aware of any workwhich demonstrates that any kind of rule-strengthvariable has effects on naming latencies whenother variables known to affect such latenciessuch as neighborhood size (e.g., Andrews, 1992)and string length (e.g., Weekes, 1997) arecontrolled.
"We believe that the present results provide theevidence that was called for and should incitedual-route modelers to abandon the idea of all-or-none rules which was a central theoreticalassumption of these models compared toconnectionist ones.
As the DRC model is largelybased on the interactive activation principles, themost natural way to account for graded effects ofgrapheme frequency and pronunciationpredictability would be to introduce grapheme andphoneme units in the nonlexical system.Variations in the activation resting level ofgrapheme detectors as a function of frequency ofoccurrence and differences in the strength of theconnections between graphemes and phonemes asa function of association probability would thenexplain grapheme frequency and graphemeentropy effects.
However an implementation frule-strength in the conversion system of the kindsuggested considerably modifies its processingmechanism, notably by replacing the serial tablelook-up selection of graphemes by a parallelactivation process.
Such a change is highly likelyto induce non-trivial consequences on predictedperformance.Furthermore, and contrary to the suggestion thatthe introduction of rule-strength would amount oa mere implementational daptation of notheoretical importance, we consider that it wouldimpose a substantial restatement of the theory,because it violates the core assumption of theapproach, namely, that language users induce all-or-none rules from the language to which they areexposed.
Hence, the cost of such a (potential)improvement in descriptive adequacy is the lossof explanatory value from a psycholinguisticperspective.
As Seidenberg stated, "\[we are\] notclaiming that data of the sort presented \[here\]cannot in principle be accommodated within adual route type of model.
In the absence of anyconstraints on the introduction of new pathwaysor recognition processes, models in the dual routeframework can always be adapted to fit theempirical data.
Although specific proposals mightbe refuted on the basis of empirical data, thegeneral approach cannot."
(Seidenberg, 1985, p.244).The difficulty to account for the present findingswithin the dual-route approach contrasts with thestraigthforward explanation they receive in thePDP framework.
As has often been emphasized,rule-strength effects emerge as a naturalconsequence of learning and processingmechanisms in parallel distributed systems (seeVan Orden, Pennington, & Stone, 1990; Plaut etal., 1996).
In this framework, the rule-governedbehavior is explained by the gradual encoding ofthe statistical structure that governs the mappingbetween orthography and phonology.ConclusionsIn this paper, we presented a semi-automaticprocedure to segment words into graphemes andtabulate grapheme-phoneme mappingscharacteristics for the French writing system.
Incurrent work, the same method has been appliedon French and English materials, allowing toprovide more detailed descriptions of thesimilarities and differences between the twolanguages.
Most previous work in French (e.g.Vrronis, 1986) and English (Venezky, 1970) hasfocused mainly on the extraction of a rule set.
Oneimportant feature of our endeavor is the extractionof several quantitative graded measures ofgrapheme-phoneme appings (see also Bern&,Reggia, & Mitchum, 1987, for similar work inAmerican English).In the empirical investigation, we have shownhow the descriptive data could be used to probehuman readers' written word processing.
Theresults demonstrate hat the descriptive statistics441capture some important features of the processingsystem and thus provide an empirical validation ofthe approach.
Most interestingly, the sensitivity ofhuman processing to the degree of regularity andfrequency of grapheme-phoneme associationsprovides a new argument in favor of models inwhich knowledge of print-to-sound mapping isbased on a large set of graded associations ratherthan on correspondence rules.AcknowledgementsThis research was supported by a research grantfrom the Direction Grn6rale de la RechercheScientifique - -  Communaut6 fran~aise deBelgique (ARC 96/01-203).
Marielle Lange is aresearch assistant at the Belgian National Fund forScientific Research (FNRS).ReferencesAndrews, S. (1992).
Frequency and neighborhoodeffects on lexical access: Lexical similarity ororthographic redundancy?
Journal ofExperimental Psychology: Learning, Memory,and Cognition, 18,234-254.Berndt, R. S., Reggia, J.
A., & Mitchum, C. C.(1987).
Empirically derived probabilities forgrapheme-to-phoneme correspondences inEnglish.
Behavior Research Methods,Instruments, & Computers, 19, 1-9.Chater, N., & Christiansen, M. H. (1998).Connectionism and Natural LanguageProcessing.
In S. Garrod & M.
Pickering.(Eds.
), Language Processing.
London, UK:University College London Press.Coltheart, M. (1978).
Lexical access in simplereading tasks.
In G. Underwood (Ed.
),Strategies of information processing (pp.
151-216).
London: Academic Press.Coltheart, M., Curtis, B., Atkins, P., & Hailer, M.(1993).
Models of reading aloud: Dual-routeand parallel-distributed-processing approaches.Psychological Review, 100, 589-608.Content, A., Mousty, P., & Radeau, M. (1990).Brulex.
Une base de donn~es lexicalesinformatiske pour le fran?ais $crit et parl~\[Brulex, A lexical database for written andspoken French\].
L'Ann6e Psychologique, 90,551-566.Plaut, D. C., McClelland, J. L., Seidenberg, M. S.,& Patterson, K. E. (1996).
Understandingnormal and impaired word reading:Computational principles in quasi-regulardomains.
Psychological Review, 103, 56-115.Rastle, K., & Coltheart, M. (1999).
Serial andstrategic effects in reading aloud.
Journal ofExperimental Psychology: Human Perceptionand Performance, (April, 1999, in press).Seidenberg, M. S. (1985).
The time course ofinformation activation and utilization in visualword recognition.
In D. Besner, T. G. Waller, &E. M. MacKinnon (Eds.
), Reading Research:Advances in theory and practice (Vol.
5, pp.199-252).
New York: Academic Press.Seidenberg, M. S., & McClelland, J. L. (1989).
Adistributed, developmental model of wordrecognition and naming.
Psychological Review,96, 523-568.Shannon, C. E. (1948).
A mathematical theory ofcommunication.
Bell System Technical Journal,27, 379-423, 623-656.Treiman, R., Mullennix, J., Bijeljac-Babic, R., &Richmond-Welty, E. D. (1995).
The special rolefor rimes in the description, use, and acquisitionof English Orthography.
Journal ofExperimental Psychology: General, 124, 107-136.Van Orden, G. C., Pennington, B. F., & Stone, G.O.
(1990).
Word identification in reading andthe promise of subsymbolic psycholinguistics.Psychological Review, 97, 488-522.Venezky, R. L. (1970).
The structure of Englishorthography.
The Hage, The Netherlands:Mouton.V6ronis, J.
(1986).
Etude quantitative sur lesystbme graphique t phonologique du frangais.Cahiers de Psychologie Cognitive, 6, 501-531.Weekes, B.
(1997).
Differential effects of letternumber on word and nonword naming latency.Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology,50A, 439-456.442
