Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 1 (2013) 25?36.
Action Editor: Hal Daume?
III.Submitted 10/2012; Published 3/2013.
c?2013 Association for Computational Linguistics.Grounding Action Descriptions in VideosMichaela Regneri ?, Marcus Rohrbach , Dominikus Wetzel ?,Stefan Thater ?, Bernt Schiele  and Manfred Pinkal ??
Department of Computational Linguistics, Saarland University, Saarbru?cken, Germany(regneri|dwetzel|stth|pinkal)@coli.uni-saarland.de Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Saarbru?cken, Germany(rohrbach|schiele)@mpi-inf.mpg.deAbstractRecent work has shown that the integration ofvisual information into text-based models cansubstantially improve model predictions, butso far only visual information extracted fromstatic images has been used.
In this paper, weconsider the problem of grounding sentencesdescribing actions in visual information ex-tracted from videos.
We present a generalpurpose corpus that aligns high quality videoswith multiple natural language descriptions ofthe actions portrayed in the videos, togetherwith an annotation of how similar the actiondescriptions are to each other.
Experimentalresults demonstrate that a text-based model ofsimilarity between actions improves substan-tially when combined with visual informationfrom videos depicting the described actions.1 IntroductionThe estimation of semantic similarity betweenwords and phrases is a basic task in computationalsemantics.
Vector-space models of meaning are onestandard approach.
Following the distributional hy-pothesis, frequencies of context words are recordedin vectors, and semantic similarity is computed as aproximity measure in the underlying vector space.Such distributional models are attractive becausethey are conceptually simple, easy to implement andrelevant for various NLP tasks (Turney and Pan-tel, 2010).
At the same time, they provide a sub-stantially incomplete picture of word meaning, sincethey ignore the relation between language and extra-linguistic information, which is constitutive for lin-guistic meaning.
In the last few years, a growingamount of work has been devoted to the task ofgrounding meaning in visual information, in par-ticular by extending the distributional approach tojointly cover texts and images (Feng and Lapata,2010; Bruni et al 2011).
As a clear result, visualinformation improves the quality of distributionalmodels.
Bruni et al(2011) show that visual infor-mation drawn from images is particularly relevantfor concrete common nouns and adjectives.A natural next step is to integrate visual infor-mation from videos into a semantic model of eventand action verbs.
Psychological studies have shownthe connection between action semantics and videos(Glenberg, 2002; Howell et al 2005), but to ourknowledge, we are the first to provide a suitable datasource and to implement such a model.The contribution of this paper is three-fold:?
We present a multimodal corpus containingtextual descriptions aligned with high-qualityvideos.
Starting from the video corpus ofRohrbach et al(2012b), which contains high-resolution video recordings of basic cookingtasks, we collected multiple textual descrip-tions of each video via Mechanical Turk.
Wealso provide an accurate sentence-level align-ment of the descriptions with their respectivevideos.
We expect the corpus to be a valu-able resource for computational semantics, andmoreover helpful for a variety of purposes, in-cluding video understanding and generation oftext from videos.?
We provide a gold-standard dataset for theevaluation of similarity models for action verbsand phrases.
The dataset has been designedas analogous to the Usage Similarity dataset of25Erk et al(2009) and contains pairs of natural-language action descriptions plus their associ-ated video segments.
Each of the pairs is an-notated with a similarity score based on severalmanual annotations.?
We report an experiment on similarity model-ing of action descriptions based on the videocorpus and the gold standard annotation, whichdemonstrates the impact of scene informationfrom videos.
Visual similarity models outper-form text-based models; the performance ofcombined models approaches the upper boundindicated by inter-annotator agreement.The paper is structured as follows: We first placeourselves in the landscape of related work (Sec.
2),then we introduce our corpus (Sec.
3).
Sec.
4 re-ports our action similarity annotation experimentand Sec.
5 introduces the similarity measures we ap-ply to the annotated data.
We outline the results ofour evaluation in Sec.
6, and conclude the paper witha summary and directions for future work (Sec.
7).2 Related WorkA large multimodal resource combining languageand visual information resulted from the ESP game(von Ahn and Dabbish, 2004).
The dataset containsmany images tagged with several one-word labels.The Microsoft Video Description Corpus (Chenand Dolan, 2011, MSVD) is a resource providingtextual descriptions of videos.
It consists of multiplecrowd-sourced textual descriptions of short videosnippets.
The MSVD corpus is much larger than ourcorpus, but most of the videos are of relatively lowquality and therefore too challenging for state-of-the-art video processing to extract relevant informa-tion.
The videos are typically short and summarizedwith a single sentence.
Our corpus contains coher-ent textual descriptions of longer video sequences,where each sentence is associated with a timeframe.Gupta et al(2009) present another useful re-source: their model learns the alignment ofpredicate-argument structures with videos and usesthe result for action recognition in videos.
However,the corpus contains no natural language texts.The connection between natural language sen-tences and videos has so far been mostly exploredby the computer vision community, where dif-ferent methods for improving action recognitionby exploiting linguistic data have been proposed(Gupta and Mooney, 2010; Motwani and Mooney,2012; Cour et al 2008; Tzoukermann et al 2011;Rohrbach et al 2012b, among others).
Our resourceis intended to be used for action recognition as well,but in this paper, we focus on the inverse effect ofvisual data on language processing.Feng and Lapata (2010) were the first to enrichtopic models for newspaper articles with visual in-formation, by incorporating features from article il-lustrations.
They achieve better results when in-corporating the visual information, providing an en-riched model that pairs a single text with a picture.Bruni et al(2011) used the ESP game data to cre-ate a visually grounded semantic model.
Their re-sults outperform purely text-based models using vi-sual information from pictures for the task of mod-eling noun similarities.
They model single words,and mostly visual features lead only to moderate im-provements, which might be due to the mixed qual-ity and random choice of the images.
Dodge et al(2012) recently investigated which words can actu-ally be grounded in images at all, producing an au-tomatic classifier for visual words.An interesting in-depth study by Mathe et al(2008) automatically learnt the semantics of motionverbs as abstract features from videos.
The studycaptures 4 actions with 8-10 videos for each of theactions, and would need a perfect object recognitionfrom a visual classifier to scale up.Steyvers (2010) and later Silberer and Lapata(2012) present an alternative approach to incorpo-rating visual information directly: they use so-calledfeature norms, which consist of human associationsfor many given words, as a proxy for general percep-tual information.
Because this model is trained andevaluated on those feature norms, it is not directlycomparable to our approach.The Restaurant Game by Orkin and Roy (2009)grounds written chat dialogues in actions carried outin a computer game.
While this work is outstandingfrom the social learning perspective, the actions thatground the dialogues are clicks on a screen ratherthan real-world actions.
The dataset has successfullybeen used to model determiner meaning (Reckmanet al 2011) in the context of the Restaurant Game,26but it is unclear how this approach could scale up tocontent words and other domains.3 The TACOS CorpusWe build our corpus on top of the ?MPII Cook-ing Composite Activities?
video corpus (Rohrbachet al 2012b, MPII Composites), which containsvideos of different activities in the cooking domain,e.g., preparing carrots or separating eggs.
We ex-tend the existing corpus with multiple textual de-scriptions collected by crowd-sourcing via AmazonMechanical Turk1 (MTurk).
To facilitate the align-ment of sentences describing activities with theirproper video segments, we also obtained approxi-mate timestamps, as described in Sec.
3.2.MPII Composites comes with timed gold-standard annotation of low-level activities and par-ticipating objects (e.g.
OPEN [HAND,DRAWER] orTAKE OUT [HAND,KNIFE,DRAWER]).
By addingtextual descriptions (e.g., The person takes a knifefrom the drawer) and aligning them on the sentencelevel with videos and low-level annotations, we pro-vide a rich multimodal resource (cf.
Fig.
2), the?Saarbru?cken Corpus of Textually Annotated Cook-ing Scenes?
(TACOS).
In particular, the TACOS cor-pus provides:?
A collection of coherent textual descrip-tions for video recordings of activities ofmedium complexity, as as a basis for empiri-cal discourse-related research, e.g., the selec-tion and granularity of action descriptions incontext?
A high-quality alignment of sentences withvideo segments, supporting the grounding ofaction descriptions in visual information?
Collections of paraphrases describing the samescene, which result as a by-product from thetext-video alignment and can be useful for textgeneration from videos (among other things)?
The alignment of textual activity descriptionswith sequences of low-level activities, whichmay be used to study the decomposition of ac-tion verbs into basic activity predicates1mturk.comWe expect that our corpus will encourage and en-able future work on various topics in natural lan-guage and video processing.
In this paper, we willmake use of the second aspect only, demonstratingthe usefulness of the corpus for the grounding task.After a more detailed description of the basicvideo corpus and its annotation (Sec.
3.1) we de-scribe the collection of textual descriptions withMTurk (Sec.
3.2), and finally show the assembly andsome benchmarks of the final corpus (Sec.
3.3).3.1 The video corpusMPII Composites contains 212 high resolution videorecordings of 1-23 minutes length (4.5 min.
on av-erage).
41 basic cooking tasks such as cutting a cu-cumber were recorded, each between 4 and 8 times.The selection of cooking tasks is based on those pro-posed at ?Jamie?s Home Cooking Skills?.2 The cor-pus is recorded in a kitchen environment with a totalof 22 subjects.
Each video depicts a single task exe-cuted by an individual subject.The dataset contains expert annotations of low-level activity tags.
Annotations are provided for seg-ments containing a semantically meaningful cook-ing related movement pattern.
The action must gobeyond single body part movements (such as movearm up) and must have the goal of changing the stateor location of an object.
60 different activity labelsare used for annotation (e.g.
PEEL, STIR, TRASH).Each low-level activity tag consists of an activitylabel (PEEL), a set of associated objects (CARROT,DRAWER,...), and the associated timeframe (start-ing and ending points of the activity).
Associatedobjects are the participants of an activity, namelytools (e.g.
KNIFE), patient (CARROT) and location(CUTTING-BOARD).
We provide the coarse-grainedrole information for patient, location and tool in thecorpus data, but we did not use this information inour experiments.
The dataset contains a total of8818 annotated segments, on average 42 per video.3.2 Collecting textual video descriptionsWe collected textual descriptions for a subset of thevideos in MPII Composites, restricting collection totasks that involve manipulation of cooking ingredi-ents.
We also excluded tasks with fewer than four2www.jamieshomecookingskills.com27video recordings in the corpus, leaving 26 tasks to bedescribed.
We randomly selected five videos fromeach task, except the three tasks for which only fourvideos are available.
This resulted in a total of 127videos.
For each video, we collected 20 differenttextual descriptions, leading to 2540 annotation as-signments.
We published these assignments (HITs)on MTurk, using an adapted version3 of the annota-tion tool Vatic (Vondrick et al 2012).In each assignment, the subject saw one videospecified with the task title (e.g.
How to prepare anonion), and then was asked to enter at least five andat most 15 complete English sentences to describethe events in the video.
The annotation instructionscontained example annotations from a kitchen tasknot contained in our actual dataset.Annotators were encouraged to watch each videoseveral times, skipping backward and forward asthey wished.
They were also asked to take noteswhile watching, and to sketch the annotation beforeentering it.
Once familiarized with the video, sub-jects did the final annotation by watching the entirevideo from beginning to end, without the possibil-ity of further non-sequential viewing.
Subjects wereasked to enter each sentence as soon as the action de-scribed by the sentence was completed.
The videoplayback paused automatically at the beginning ofthe sentence input.
We recorded pause onset foreach sentence annotation as an approximate endingtimestamp of the described action.
The annotatorsresumed the video manually.The tasks required a HIT approval rate of 75%and were open only to workers in the US, in orderto increase the general language quality of the En-glish annotations.
Each task paid 1.20 USD.
Beforepaying we randomly inspected the annotations andmanually checked for quality.
The total costs of col-lecting the annotations amounted to 3,353 USD.
Thedata was obtained within a time frame of 3.5 weeks.3.3 Putting the TACOS corpus togetherOur corpus is a combination of the MTurk data andMPII Composites, created by filtering out inappro-priate material and computing a high-quality align-ment of sentences and video segments.
The align-ment is done by matching the approximate times-3github.com/marcovzla/vatic/tree/boltl1l2l3l4s1l5s3s2s1s3s2elementarytimeframessentencesl1l2l3l4l5Figure 1: Aligning action descriptions with the video.tamps of the MTurk data to the accurate timestampsin MPII Composites.We discarded text instances if people did not timethe sentences properly, taking the association of sev-eral (or even all) sentences to a single timestamp asan indicator.
Whenever we found a timestamp asso-ciated with two or more sentences, we discarded thewhole instance.
Overall, we had to filter out 13%of the text instances, which left us with 2206 textualvideo descriptions.For the alignment of sentence annotations andvideo segments, we assign a precise timeframe toeach sentence in the following way: We take thetimeframes given by the low-level annotation inMPII Composites as a gold standard micro-eventsegmentation of the video, because they mark alldistinct frames that contain activities of interest.
Wecall them elementary frames.
The sequence of el-ementary frames is not necessarily continuous, be-cause idle time is not annotated.The MTurk sentences have end points that con-stitute a coarse-grained, noisy video segmentation,assuming that each sentence spans the time betweenthe end of the previous sentence and its own end-ing point.
We refine those noisy timeframes to goldframes as shown in Fig.
1: Each elementary frame(l1-l5) is mapped to a sentence (s1-s3) if its noisytimeframe covers at least half of the elementaryframe.
We define the final gold sentence frame thenas the timespan between the starting point of the firstand the ending point of the last elementary frame.The alignment of descriptions with low-level ac-tivities results in a table as given in Fig.
3.
Columnscontain the textual descriptions of the videos; rows28Top 10Verbscut, take, get, put, wash, place,rinse, remove, *pan, peelTop 10Activitiesmove, take out, cut, wash, takeapart, add, shake, screw, put in, peelFigure 4: 10 most frequent verbs and low-level actions inthe TACOS corpus.
pan is probably often mis-tagged.correspond to low-level actions, and each sentenceis aligned with the last of its associated low-level ac-tions.
As a side effect, we also obtain multiple para-phrases for each sentence, by considering all sen-tences with the same associated time frame as equiv-alent realizations of the same action.The corpus contains 17,334 action descrip-tions (tokens), realizing 11,796 different sentences(types).
It consists of 146,771 words (tokens),75,210 of which are content word instances (i.e.nouns, verbs and adjectives).
The verb vocabularycomprises 28,292 verb tokens, realizing 435 lem-mas.
Since verbs occurring in the corpus typicallydescribe actions, we can note that the linguistic vari-ance for the 58 different low-level activities is quitelarge.
Fig.
4 gives an impression of the action re-alizations in the corpus, listing the most frequentverbs from the textual data, and the most frequentlow-level activities.On average, each description covers 2.7 low-levelactivities, which indicates a clear difference in gran-ularity.
38% of the descriptions correspond to ex-actly one low-level activity, about a quarter (23%)covers two of them; 16% have 5 or more low-levelelements, 2% more than 10.
The corpus shows howhumans vary the granularity of their descriptions,measured in time or number of low-level activities,and it shows how they vary the linguistic realizationof the same action.
For example, Fig.
3 contains diceand chop into small pieces as alternative realizationsof the low-level activity sequence SLICE - SCRATCHOFF - SLICE.The descriptions are of varying length (9 wordson average), reaching from two-word phrases to de-tailed descriptions of 65 words.
Most sentences areshort, consisting of a reference to the person in thevideo, a participant and an action verb (The personrinses the carrot, He cuts off the two edges).
Peopleoften specified an instrument (from the faucet), orthe resulting state of the action (chop the carrots insmall pieces).
Occasionally, we find more complexconstructions (support verbs, coordinations).As Fig.
3 indicates, the timestamp-based align-ment is pretty accurate; occasional errors occur likeHe starts chopping the carrot... in NL Sequence 3.The data contains some typos and ungrammaticalsentences (He washed carrot), but for our own ex-periments, the small number of such errors did notlead to any processing problems.4 The Action Similarity DatasetIn this section, we present a gold standard dataset,as a basis for the evaluation of visually groundedmodels of action similarity.
We call it the ?ActionSimilarity Dataset?
(ASim) in analogy to the UsageSimilarity dataset (USim) of Erk et al(2009) andErk et al(2012).
Similarly to USim, ASim con-tains a collection of sentence pairs with numericalsimilarity scores assigned by human annotators.
Weasked the annotators to focus on the similarity of theactivities described rather than on assessing seman-tic similarity in general.
We use sentences from theTACOS corpus and record their timestamps.
Thuseach sentence comes with the video segment whichit describes (these were not shown to the annotators).4.1 Selecting action description pairsRandom selection of annotated sentences from thecorpus would lead to a large majority of pairs whichare completely dissimilar, or difficult to grade (e.g.,He opens the drawer ?
The person cuts off the endsof the carrot).
We constrained the selection pro-cess in two ways: First, we consider only sentencesdescribing activities of manipulating an ingredient.The low-level annotation of the video corpus helpsus identify candidate descriptions.
We exclude rareand special activities, ending up with CUT, SLICE,CHOP, PEEL, TAKE APART, and WASH, which oc-cur reasonably frequently, with a wide distributionover different scenarios.
We restrict the candidateset to those sentences whose timespan includes oneof these activities.
This results in a conceptuallymore focussed repertoire of descriptions, and at thesame time admits full linguistic variation (wash anapple under the faucet ?
rinse an apple, slice thecucumber ?
cut the cucumber into slices).29896 -1137 wash      [hand,carrot]1145 -1212 shake     [hand,carrot]1330 -1388 close     [hand,drawer]1431 -1647 take out  [hand,knife,drawer]1647 -1669 move      [hand,cutting board,counter]1673 -1705 move      [hand,carrot,bowl,cutting board]1736 -1818 cut       [knife,carrot,cutting board]1919 -3395 slice     [knife,carrot,cutting board]>  890: The man takes out a cutting board.> 1300: He washes a carrot.> 1500: He takes out a knife.> 4000: He slices the carrot.Videos of basic kitchen tasksLow level annotations with timestamps, actions and objectsNatural language descriptionswith ending times of the actionsmanual low-level annotationMechanical Turk data collectiontimestamp-based alignmentFigure 2: Corpus OverviewSample frame Start End Action Participants NL Sequence 1 NL Sequence 2 NL Sequence 3743 911 wash hand, carrot He washed carrot The person rinses thecarrot.He rinses the carrot fromthe faucet.982 1090 cut knife, carrot,cutting boardHe cut off ends ofcarrotsThe person cuts offthe ends of the carrot.He cuts off the two edges.1164 1257 open hand, drawer1679 1718 close hand, drawer He searches for some-thing in the drawer, failedattempt, he throws awaythe edges in trash.1746 1799 trash hand, carrot The person searchesfor the trash can, thenthrows the ends ofthe carrot away.1854 2011 wash hand, carrot He rinses the carrot again.2011 2045 shake hand, carrot He washed carrot The person rinses thecarrot again.He starts chopping thecarrot in small pieces.2083 2924 slice knife, carrot,cutting board2924 2959 scratchoffhand, carrot,knife, cuttingboard3000 3696 slice knife, carrot,cutting boardHe diced carrots He finished chopping thecarrots in small pieces.Figure 3: Excerpt from the corpus for a video on PREPARING A CARROT.
Example frames, low-level annotation(Action and Participants) is shown along with three of the MTurk sequences (NL Sequence 1-3).30Second, we required the pairs to share some lexi-cal material, either the head verb or the manipulatedingredient (or both).4 More precisely, we composedthe ASim dataset from three different subsets:Different activity, same object: This subset con-tains pairs describing different types of actions car-ried out on the same type of object (e.g.
The manwashes the carrot.
?
She dices the carrot.).
Its fo-cus is on the central task of modeling the semanticrelation between actions (rather than the objects in-volved in the activity), since the object head nounsin the descriptions are the same, and the respectivevideo segments show the same type of object.Same activity, same object: Description pairs ofthis subset will in many cases, but not always, agreein their head verbs.
The dataset is useful for explor-ing the degree to which action descriptions are un-derspecified with respect to the precise manner oftheir practical realization.
For example, peeling anonion will mostly be done in a rather uniform way,while cut applied to carrot can mean that the carrotis chopped up, or sliced, or cut in halves.Same activity & verb, different object: Descrip-tion pairs in this subset share head verb and low-level activity, but have different objects (e.g.
Theman washes the carrot.
?
A girl washes an apple un-der the faucet.).
This dataset enables the explorationof the objects?
meaning contribution to the completeaction, established by the variation of equivalent ac-tions that are done to different objects.We assembled 900 action description pairs for anno-tation: 480 pairs share the object; 240 of which havedifferent activities, and the other 240 pairs share thesame activity.
We included paraphrases describingthe same video segment, but we excluded pairs ofidentical sentences.
420 additional pairs share theirhead verb, but have different objects.4.2 Manual annotationThree native speakers of English were asked to judgethe similarity of the action pairs with respect to how4We refer to the latter with the term object; we don?t requirethe ingredient term to be the actual grammatical object in theaction descriptions, we rather use ?object?
in its semantic rolesense as the entity affected by an action.Part of Gold Standard Sim ?
?DIFF.
ACTIVITY, SAME OBJECT 2.20 1.07 0.73SAME ACTIVITY, SAME OBJECT 4.19 1.04 0.73ALL WITH SAME OBJECT 3.20 1.44 0.84SAME VERB, DIFF.
OBJECT 3.34 0.69 0.43COMPLETE DATASET 3.27 1.15 0.73Figure 5: Average similarity ratings (Sim), their standarddeviation (?))
and annotator agreement (?)
for ASim.they are carried out, rating each sentence pair witha score from 1 (not similar at all) to 5 (the same ornearly the same).
They did not see the respectivevideos, but we noted the relevant kitchen task (i.e.which vegetable was prepared).
We asked the an-notators explicitly to ignore the actor of the action(e.g.
whether it is a man or a woman) and scorethe similarities of the underlying actions rather thantheir verbalizations.
Each subject rated all 900 pairs,which were shown to them in completely random or-der, with a different order for each subject.We compute inter-annotator agreement (and theforthcoming evaluation scores) using Spearman?srank correlation coefficient (?
), a non-parametrictest which is widely used for similar evaluation tasks(Mitchell and Lapata, 2008; Bruni et al 2011; Erkand McCarthy, 2009).
Spearman?s ?
evaluates howthe samples are ranked relative to each other ratherthan the numerical distance between the rankings.Fig.
5 shows the average similarity ratings in thedifferent settings and the inter-annotator agreement.The average inter-rater agreement was ?
= 0.73 (av-eraged over pairwise rater agreements), with pair-wise results of ?
= 0.77, 0.72, and 0.69, respec-tively, which are all highly significant at p < 0.001.As expected, pairs with the same activity and ob-ject are rated very similar (4.19) on average, whilethe similarity of different activities on the same ob-ject is the lowest (2.2).
For both subsets, inter-rateragreement is high (?
= 0.73), and even higher forboth SAME OBJECT subsets together (0.84).Pairs with identical head verbs and different ob-jects have a small standard deviation, at 0.69.
Theinter-annotator agreement on this set is much lowerthan for pairs from the SAME OBJECT set.
This indi-cates that similarity assessment for different variantsof the same activity is a hard task even for humans.315 Models of Action SimilarityIn the following, we demonstrate that visual infor-mation contained in videos of the kind provided bythe TACOS corpus (Sec.
3) substantially contributesto the semantic modeling of action-denoting expres-sions.
In Sec.
6, we evaluate several methods forpredicting action similarity on the task provided bythe ASim dataset.
In this section, we describe themodels considered in the evaluation.
We use twodifferent models based on visual information, and inaddition two text based models.
We will also explorethe effect of combining linguistic and visual infor-mation and investigate which mode is most suitablefor which kinds of similarity.5.1 Text-based modelsWe use two different models of textual similarityto predict action similarity: a simple word-overlapmeasure (Jaccard coefficient) and a state-of-the-artmodel based on ?contextualized?
vector representa-tions of word meaning (Thater et al 2011).Jaccard coefficient.
The Jaccard coefficient givesthe ratio between the number of (distinct) wordscommon to two input sentences and the total num-ber of (distinct) words in the two sentences.
Suchsimple surface-oriented measures of textual similar-ity are often used as baselines in related tasks such asrecognizing textual entailment (Dagan et al 2005)and are known to deliver relatively strong results.Vector model.
We use the vector model of Thateret al(2011), which ?contextualizes?
vector repre-sentations for individual words based on the particu-lar sentence context in which the target word occurs.The basic intuition behind this approach is that thewords in the syntactic context of the target word in agiven input sentence can be used to refine or disam-biguate its vector.
Intuitively, this allows us to dis-criminate between different actions that a verb canrefer to, based on the different objects of the action.We first experimented with a version of this vec-tor model which predicts action similarity scores oftwo input sentences by computing the cosine simi-larity of the contextualized vectors of the verbs in thetwo sentences only.
We achieved better performancewith a variant of this model which computes vectorsfor the two sentences by summing over the contex-tualized vectors of all constituent content words.In the experiments reported below, we only usethe second variant.
We use the same experimentalsetup as Thater et al(2011), as well as the parametersettings that are reported to work best in that paper.5.2 Video-based modelsWe distinguish two approaches to compute the sim-ilarity between two video segments.
In the first, un-supervised approach we extract a video descriptorand compute similarities between these raw features(Wang et al 2011).
The second approach buildsupon the first by additionally learning higher levelattribute classifiers (Rohrbach et al 2012b) on aheld out training set.
The similarity between twosegments is then computed between the classifier re-sponses.
In the following we detail both approaches:Raw visual features.
We use the state-of-the-artvideo descriptor Dense Trajectories (Wang et al2011) which extracts visual video features, namelyhistograms of oriented gradients, flow, and motionboundary histograms, around densely sampled andtracked points.This approach is especially suited for this data asit ignores non-moving parts in the video: we areinterested in activities and manipulation of objects,and this type of feature implicitly uses only infor-mation in relevant image locations.
For our settingthis feature representation has been shown to be su-perior to human pose-based approaches (Rohrbachet al 2012a).
Using a bag-of-words representationwe encode the features using a 16,000 dimensionalcodebook.
Features and codebook are provided withthe publicly available video dataset.We compute the similarity between two encodedfeatures by computing the intersection of the two(normalized) histograms.Visual classifiers.
Visual raw features tend to haveseveral dimensions in the feature space which pro-vide unreliable, noisy values and thus degrade thestrength of the similarity measure.
Intermediatelevel attribute classifiers can learn which feature di-mensions are distinctive and thus significantly im-prove performance over raw features.
Rohrbach etal.
(2012b) showed that using such an attribute clas-sifier representation can significantly improve per-32MODEL SAME OBJECT SAME VERB OVERALLTEXTJACCARD 0.28 0.25 0.25TEXTUAL VECTORS 0.30 0.25 0.27TEXT COMBINED 0.39 0.35 0.36VIDEO VISUAL RAW VECTORS 0.53 -0.08 0.35VISUAL CLASSIFIER 0.60 0.03 0.44VIDEO COMBINED 0.61 -0.04 0.44MIX ALL UNSUPERVISED 0.58 0.32 0.48ALL COMBINED 0.67 0.28 0.55UPPER BOUND 0.84 0.43 0.73Figure 6: Evaluation results in Spearman?s ?.
All values > 0.11 are significant at p < 0.001.formance for composite activity recognition.
Therelevant attributes are all activities and objects an-notated in the video data (cf.
Section 3.1).
For theexperiments reported below we use the same setupas Rohrbach et al(2012b) and use all videos inMPII Composites and MPII Cooking (Rohrbach etal., 2012a), excluding the 127 videos used duringevaluation.
The real-valued SVM-classifier outputprovides a confidence how likely a certain attributeappeared in a given video segment.
This results in a218-dimensional vector of classifier outputs for eachvideo segment.
To compute the similarity betweentwo vectors we compute the cosine between them.6 EvaluationWe evaluate the different similarity models intro-duced in Sec.
5 by calculating their correlation withthe gold-standard similarity annotations of ASim(cf.
Sec.
4).
For all correlations, we use Spear-man?s ?
as a measure.
We consider the two textualmeasures (JACCARD and TEXTUAL VECTORS) andtheir combination, as well as the two visual mod-els (VISUAL RAW VECTORS and VISUAL CLAS-SIFIER) and their combination.
We also combinedtextual and visual features, in two variants: Thefirst includes all models (ALL COMBINED), the sec-ond only the unsupervised components, omitting thevisual classifier (ALL UNSUPERVISED).
To com-bine multiple similarity measures, we simply aver-age their normalized scores (using z-scores).Figure 6 shows the scores for all of these mea-sures on the complete ASim dataset (OVERALL),along with the two subparts, where description pairsshare either the object (SAME OBJECT) or the headverb (SAME VERB).
In addition to the model re-sults, the table also shows the average human inter-annotator agreement as UPPER BOUND.On the complete set, both visual and textual mea-sures have a highly significant correlation with thegold standard, whereas the combination of bothclearly leads to the best performance (0.55).
Theresults on the SAME OBJECT and SAME VERB sub-sets shed light on the division of labor between thetwo information sources.
While the textual mea-sures show a comparable performance over the twosubsets, there is a dramatic difference in the contri-bution of visual information: On the SAME OBJECTset, the visual models clearly outperform the textualones, whereas the visual information has no positiveeffect on the SAME VERB set.
This is clear evidencethat the visual model does not capture the similar-ity of the participating objects but rather genuine ac-tion similarity, which the visual features (Wang etal., 2011) we employ were designed for.
A directionfor future work is to learn dedicated visual object de-tectors to recognize and capture similarities betweenobjects more precisely.The numbers shown in Figure 7 support this hy-pothesis, showing the two groups in the SAME OB-JECT class: For sentence pairs that share the sameactivity, the textual models seem to be much moresuitable than the visual ones.
In general, visual mod-els perform better on actions with different activitytypes, textual models on closely related activities.33MODEL (SAME OBJECT) same action diff.
actionTEXTJACCARD 0.44 0.14TEXT VECTORS 0.42 0.05TEXT COMBINED 0.52 0.14VIDEO VIS.
RAW VECTORS 0.21 0.23VIS.
CLASSIFIER 0.21 0.45VIDEO COMBINED 0.26 0.38MIX ALL UNSUPERVISED 0.49 0.24ALL COMBINED 0.48 0.41UPPER BOUND 0.73 0.73Figure 7: Results for sentences with the same object, witheither the same or different low-level activity.Overall, the supervised classifier contributes agood part to the final results.
However, the supervi-sion is not strictly necessary to arrive at a significantcorrelation; the raw visual features alone are suffi-cient for the main performance gain seen with theintegration of visual information.7 ConclusionWe presented the TACOS corpus, which providescoherent textual descriptions for high-quality videorecordings, plus accurate alignments of text andvideo on the sentence level.
We expect the corpusto be beneficial for a variety of research activities innatural-language and visual processing.In this paper, we focused on the task of groundingthe meaning of action verbs and phrases.
We de-signed the ASim dataset as a gold standard and eval-uated several text- and video-based semantic simi-larity models on the dataset, both individually andin different combinations.We are the first to provide semantic models foraction-describing expressions, which are based oninformation extracted from videos.
Our experimen-tal results show that these models are of considerablequality, and that predictions based on a combinationof visual and textual information even approach theupper bound given by the agreement of human an-notators.In this work we used existing similarity modelsthat had been developed for different applications.We applied these models without any special train-ing or optimization for the current task, and we com-bined them in the most straightforward way.
Thereis room for improvement by tuning the models tothe task, or by using more sophisticated approachesto combine modality-specific information (Silbererand Lapata, 2012).We built our work on an existing corpus of high-quality video material, which is restricted to thecooking domain.
As a consequence, the corpus cov-ers only a limited inventory of activity types and ac-tion verbs.
Note, however, that our models are fullyunsupervised (except the Visual Classifier model),and thus can be applied without modification to ar-bitrary domains and action verbs, given that they areabout observable activities.
Also, corpora contain-ing information comparable to the TACOS corpus butwith wider coverage (and perhaps a bit noisier) canbe obtained with a moderate amount of effort.
Oneneeds videos of reasonable quality and some sort ofalignment with action descriptions.
In some casessuch alignments even come for free, e.g.
via subti-tles, or descriptions of short video clips that depictjust a single action.For future work, we will further investigate thecompositionality of action-describing phrases.
Wealso want to leverage the multimodal informationprovided by the TACOS corpus for the improvementof high-level video understanding, as well as forgeneration of natural-language text from videos.The TACOS corpus and all other data described inthis paper (videos, low-level annotation, aligned tex-tual descriptions, the ASim-Dataset and visual fea-tures) are publicly available.
5AcknowledgementsWe?d like to thank Asad Sayeed, Alexis Palmer andPrashant Rao for their help with the annotations.We?re indebted to Carl Vondrick and Marco An-tonio Valenzuela Escrcega for their extensive sup-port with the video annotation tool.
Further wethank Alexis Palmer and in particular three anony-mous reviewers for their helpful comments on thispaper.
?
This work was funded by the Cluster of Ex-cellence ?Multimodal Computing and Interaction?of the German Excellence Initiative and the DFGproject SCHI989/2-2.5http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/projects/smile/page.php?id=tacos34ReferencesLuis von Ahn and Laura Dabbish.
2004.
Labelingimages with a computer game.
In Proceedings ofSIGCHI 2004.Elia Bruni, Giang Binh Tran, and Marco Baroni.
2011.Distributional semantics from text and images.
In Pro-ceedings of GEMS 2011.David L. Chen and William B. Dolan.
2011.
Collect-ing highly parallel data for paraphrase evaluation.
InProceedings of ACL 2011.Timothee Cour, Chris Jordan, Eleni Miltsakaki, and BenTaskar.
2008.
Movie/script: Alignment and parsingof video and text transcription.
In Computer Vision?
ECCV 2008, volume 5305 of Lecture Notes in Com-puter Science, pages 158?171.
Springer Berlin Heidel-berg.Ido Dagan, Oren Glickman, and Bernardo Magnini.2005.
The PASCAL recognising textual entailmentchallenge.
In Proceedings of MLCW 2005.Jesse Dodge, Amit Goyal, Xufeng Han, Alyssa Men-sch, Margaret Mitchell, Karl Stratos, Kota Yamaguchi,Yejin Choi, Hal Daume?
III, Alexander C. Berg, andTamara L. Berg.
2012.
Detecting visual text.
In HLT-NAACL, pages 762?772.Katrin Erk and Diana McCarthy.
2009.
Graded wordsense assignment.
In Proceedings of EMNLP 2009.Katrin Erk, Diana McCarthy, and Nicholas Gaylord.2009.
Investigations on word senses and word usages.In Proceedings of ACL/AFNLP 2009.Katrin Erk, Diana McCarthy, and Nick Gaylord.
2012.Measuring word meaning in context.
CL.Yansong Feng and Mirella Lapata.
2010.
Visual infor-mation in semantic representation.
In Proceedings ofHLT-NAACL 2010.A.
M. Glenberg.
2002.
Grounding language in action.Psychonomic Bulletin & Review.Sonal Gupta and Raymond J. Mooney.
2010.
Us-ing closed captions as supervision for video activ-ity recognition.
In Proceedings of the Twenty-FourthAAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-2010), pages 1083?1088, Atlanta, GA, July.Abhinav Gupta, Praveen Srinivasan, Jianbo Shi, andLarry S. Davis.
2009.
Understanding videos, con-structing plots learning a visually grounded storylinemodel from annotated videos.
In Proceedings ofCVPR 2009.Steve R. Howell, Damian Jankowicz, and SuzannaBecker.
2005.
A model of grounded language ac-quisition: Sensorimotor features improve lexical andgrammatical learning.
JML.S.
Mathe, A. Fazly, S. Dickinson, and S. Stevenson.2008.
Learning the abstract motion semantics of verbsfrom captioned videos.
pages 1?8.Jeff Mitchell and Mirella Lapata.
2008.
Vector-basedmodels of semantic composition.
In Proceedings ofACL 2008.Tanvi S. Motwani and Raymond J. Mooney.
2012.
Im-proving video activity recognition using object recog-nition and text mining.
In Proceedings of the 20thEuropean Conference on Artificial Intelligence (ECAI-2012), pages 600?605, August.Jeff Orkin and Deb Roy.
2009.
Automatic learning andgeneration of social behavior from collective humangameplay.
In Proceedings of AAMAS 2009.Hilke Reckman, Jeff Orkin, and Deb Roy.
2011.
Ex-tracting aspects of determiner meaning from dialoguein a virtual world environment.
In Proceedings of CCS2011, IWCS ?11.Marcus Rohrbach, Sikandar Amin, Mykhaylo Andriluka,and Bernt Schiele.
2012a.
A database for fine grainedactivity detection of cooking activities.
In Proceedingsof CVPR 2012.Marcus Rohrbach, Michaela Regneri, Micha Andriluka,Sikandar Amin, Manfred Pinkal, and Bernt Schiele.2012b.
Script data for attribute-based recognition ofcomposite activities.
In Proceedings of ECCV 2012.Carina Silberer and Mirella Lapata.
2012.
Groundedmodels of semantic representation.
In Proceedings ofEMNLP-CoNLL 2012.Mark Steyvers.
2010.
Combining feature norms andtext data with topic models.
Acta Psychologica,133(3):234 ?
243.
?ce:title?Formal modeling of se-mantic concepts?/ce:title?.Stefan Thater, Hagen Fu?rstenau, and Manfred Pinkal.2011.
Word meaning in context: A simple and effec-tive vector model.
In Proceedings of IJCNLP 2011.Peter D. Turney and Patrick Pantel.
2010.
From fre-quency to meaning.
vector space models for semantics.JAIR.E.
Tzoukermann, J. Neumann, J. Kosecka, C. Fermuller,I.
Perera, F. Ferraro, B. Sapp, R. Chaudhry, andG.
Singh.
2011.
Language models for semantic ex-traction and filtering in video action recognition.
InAAAI Workshop on Language-Action Tools for Cogni-tive Artificial Agents.Carl Vondrick, Donald Patterson, and Deva Ramanan.2012.
Efficiently scaling up crowdsourced video an-notation.
IJCV.Heng Wang, Alexander Kla?ser, Cordelia Schmid, andCheng-Lin Liu.
2011.
Action Recognition by DenseTrajectories.
In Proceedings of CVPR 2011.3536
