Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation, ACL 2010, pages 329?332,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsUC3M system: Determining the Extent, Type and Value of TimeExpressions in TempEval-2Mar?a Teresa Vicente-D?ez, Juli?n Moreno Schneider, Paloma Mart?nezDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversidad Carlos III de MadridAvda.
Universidad, 30Legan?s, 28911, Madrid, Spain.
{tvicente, jmschnei, pmf}@inf.uc3m.esAbstractThis paper describes the participation ofUniversidad Carlos III de Madrid in Task A ofthe TempEval-2 evaluation.
The UC3Msystem was originally developed for thetemporal expressions recognition andnormalization (TERN task) in Spanish texts,according to the TIDES standard.
Currentversion supposes an almost-total refactoring ofthe earliest system.
Additionally, it has beenadapted to the TimeML annotation schemaand a considerable effort has been done withthe aim of increasing its coverage.
It takes arule-based design both in the identification andthe resolution phases.
It adopts an inductiveapproach based on the empirical study offrequency of temporal expressions in Spanishcorpora.
Detecting the extent of the temporalexpressions the system achieved aPrecision/Recall of 0.90/0.87 whereas, indetermining the TYPE and VALUE of thoseexpressions, system results were 0.91 and0.83, respectively.1 IntroductionThe study of temporality in NLP is not a newtask.
However, in the last years it has witnessed ahuge interest.
Initiatives like TempEval task orthe Automatic Context Extraction1 (ACE) TERNcompetitions have boosted research on the fieldand have promoted the development of newresources to the scientific community.There are two main advantages inparticipating in these evaluations.
On the one1Automatic Content Extraction Evaluation.
NationalInstitute of Standards and Technology (NIST)http://www.itl.nist.gov/iad/mig//tests/ace/hand it is possible to measure the systems?performance under standardized metrics, sharingdatasets and other resources.
On the other hand,it is possible to make comparative evaluationsamong distinct participants looking forward thesame objectives but using different approaches.Until recently, most of temporally annotatedcorpora, as well as temporal taggers, wereavailable in English.
Since languages as Spanishstart to become prominent in the field it seemsinteresting the development of specific resources.Tempeval-2 has contributed to this target in asignificant way thanks to the release of annotatedcorpora and the publication of specific guidelines(Sauri et al, 2009), (Saur?
et al, 2010).This paper resumes the participation of theUC3M system in the task of determining theextent and resolving the value of timeexpressions in texts (Task A).
This system wasoriginally developed for the Spanish TERN taskproposed in ACE 2007 evaluation (Vicente-D?ezet al, 2007), achieving encouraging resultsalthough it was in a early stage of development.The system follows a ruled-based approachwhose knowledge base has been inducted fromthe study of annotated temporal corpora(Vicente-D?ez et al, 2008).
A machine learningapproach was initially discarded due to thelimitation of annotated Spanish corpora.The aims of this work were to improve thecoverage of the original system and test itsperformance against new available datasets witha view to its integration in future domains ofapplication.
Main challenges were to move to anew temporal model where interval is consideredas the basic time unit as well as the isolation ofthe internal representation of temporalinformation from the annotation schema.329This paper is organized as follows: Section 2describes the system operation; Section 3presents experimentation and results; conclusionsand future work are discussed in Section 4.2 System DescriptionThe UC3M system recognizes and annotatestemporal expressions in texts based on alinguistic rules engine for Spanish language.Our system is divided into three differentparts: recognition of temporal expressions,normalization of the detections, and annotationof the temporal expressions according to theTimeML schema.Following the definition of the Task A, thesystem is able to determine not only the extent ofthe temporal expressions but also the value of thefeatures TYPE and VAL.
It differentiates amongthe four TYPE values (dates, durations, sets andtimes) thanks to the classification of therecognition rules.
The system straightforwardlyprovides a VAL attribute that accomplishes theformat defined by TIMEX2 and TIMEX3standards through its internal model forrepresenting time.2.1 RecognitionThe recognizer detects temporal expressions bymeans of a set of linguistic rules, focusing onthose which are most frequent in Spanish.We adopted an empirical inductive approachthrough the analysis of the different types oftemporal expressions in news corpora, and wecould outline a typology of most common timeexpressions in the language.
The typologytogether with the patterns that define theseexpressions form up the knowledge base for asuccessful automatic identification and resolutionof temporal expressions.The rule engine allows managing different setsof rules independently of the target.
In this case,the rules have been created attending to eachpattern that is likely to match a temporalexpression.
Each rule determines the set oftokens that form an expression, the normalizationtype to be applied and the expression type.In Table 1 an example of a rule to identifydates is shown.
The first line represents the nameof the rule.
The second line specifies thenormalization method that will be used once theexpression is recognized.
The third line specifiesthe type of the temporal expression and theannotation pattern.
Finally, the fourth line showsthe tokens that trigger the rule.1.
TEMPORAL_RULE(r1.3)2.
TEMPORAL_ANALYSIS_NORMALIZATION_TYPE=(abs_dia_mes_anio_3)3.
TEMPORAL_ANALYSIS_TYPE=(date:init:YYYY-MM-DD)4.
RULE=[[el/_] [DIC(DIASEMANA)/_] [dia/_] DIC(DIA) deDIC(MES) DIC(PREP) METHOD(year)]Table 1 Rule definition exampleThe operation of the system is described asfollows: first, the text is parsed token by token.Then, for each token, every rule is checked tofind out if it triggers through a given token andthe following ones.This operation implies that the higher thenumber of rules, the slower the text processing.The disadvantage of the processing speed hasbeen accepted as a design criterion for the sakeof the simplicity of creating new rules.2.2 NormalizationThe temporal expression normalization is doneas an intermediate step between recognition andannotation, isolating the extraction of semanticsfrom the annotation schema while trying tofacilitate the second step.Normalization is important since recognizedtime expressions are managed and returned in astandard format that avoids semanticambiguities.UC3M system applies an interval-basedtemporal normalization.
It means that everytemporal expression is represented as an intervalwith two boundaries: an initial and a final date(including time).
This approach is motivated bythe belief that the use of intervals as a basic timeunit leads to a lower loss of semantics.
Forinstance, when an expression like ?en enero?
(?inJanuary?)
is detected, current task proposes theannotation ?2010-01?.
However, we think thatfor many applications that are likely to use thissystem it would be more useful to have thecomplete interval that the expression refers(?2010-01-01 - 2010-01-31?).
Through a set ofprocedures (as getting the length of a givenmonth), our system tries to define the intervalboundaries as much as possible.
Everynormalized expression is made up of two datesalthough it refers to a concrete date or time.In the internal representation modelnormalized dates and times adopts the ISO-8601form, durations are captured as a length relatedto the unit of measure, and sets are managed in asimilar way to durations, adding quantity andfrequency modifiers.330The normalization process is dependent on therule used to recognize each expression.
For eachnew rule added to the engine a newnormalization clause is needed.In Table 2 some temporal expressionnormalization examples are presented:Expression Init Date Final Date18 de abril de 200518th of April of 2005 20050418 20050418mayo de 1999May of 1999 19990501 19990531en 1975in 1975 19750101 19751231el pr?ximo mesnext month 20100501 20100531Table 2 Interval-based normalization sample2.3 AnnotationThe annotation process starts from thenormalized form of the temporal expression.
Thesystem implements a transformation procedurebased on patterns.
This transformation isdependent on the temporal expression type.Dates: when dealing with dates, the VALvalue is extracted from the initial boundary of theinterval in accordance with the annotation patterndefined in the corresponding rule (see Table 1).Some examples are shown in Table 3.Expression Norm.
Init Date Pattern VALmayo de 1999May of 1999 19990501 YYYY-MM 1999-05la semanapasadalast week20100405 YYYY-WXX 2010-W14los a?os 80the 80?s 19800101 YYY 198Table 3 Annotation patterns for datesDurations: the model represents durations bycapturing the length of action as a quantity.
Thisquantity is stored in the position of the initialboundary whose granularity corresponds with theunit of measure.
The annotation patterns indicatethe granularity to be considered (Table 4).Expression Norm.
Init Date Pattern VAL4 a?os4 a?os 00040000 PXY P4Y4 meses, 3d?as y 2horas4 moths,3days and 2hours00040003-02:00:00 COMBINED P4M3DT2HTable 4 Annotation patterns for durationsSets are managed similarly to durations.
In thiscase also frequency and quantity modifiers arecaptured internally together with the intervalrepresentation, so that the transformation isimmediate.Expression Norm.
Init Date Pattern VAL FREQ QUANTcada 2 a?oseach 2years00020000F1QEv PXY P2Y 1x EVERY2 veces ald?atwice a day00000001F2QEv PXD P1D 2x EVERYTable 5 Annotation patterns for setsTimes: the representation model allowscapturing hours, minutes, seconds andmilliseconds if they are specified.
Similarly tothe annotation of dates, VAL value is obtained ofthe information in the initial boundary in the waythe pattern determines (Table 6).Expression Norm.
Init Date Pattern VALa las 12:30 PMat 12:30 PM2010040512:30:00 THXMX2010-04-05T12H30Mpor la tardein the evening2010040512:00:00 TDP 2010-04-05TAFTable 6 Annotation patterns for times3 Experiments and ResultsPrecision and recall and f-measure are used asevaluation metrics according to the evaluationmethodology (Pustejovsky et al, 2009).
Todetermine the quality of annotation, results arecompleted with figures concerning to theresolution of TYPE and VAL attributes.Before evaluation, the system was tested onthe training corpus and, once the test datasetswere released, it was tested on the corpus forrelations detection (tasks C-F) since it containedboth files "timex-extents.tab" and "timex-attributes.tab".
The results are shown in Table 7.Timex Extent Timex Attbs.
Corpus P R F TYPE VALTraining 0.93 0.67 0.78 0.87 0.82Relation-Test 0.89 0.63 0.74 0.86 0.83Table 7 Results on training corpusIn Table 8 results of final evaluation arepresented and compared with the otherparticipants?
figures for the same task andlanguage.
Since the test corpora were notaligned, further comparisons for differentlanguages have not been proposed.Our system achieved a precision rate of 90%and a recall of 87%, being the f-measure of 88%.Thus, it supposes a significant improvement overour earlier work.
In more, determining the valueof TIMEX3 attributes the system raises good331figures, obtaining the best VAL score, whatmeans that normalization is working well.Timex Extent Timex Attrbs.
Team P R F TYPE VALUC3M 0.90 0.87 0.88 0.91 0.83TIPSem 0.95 0.87 0.91 0.91 0.78TIPSem-B 0.97 0.81 0.88 0.99 0.75Table 8 Results on test corpusAnalyzing the experimental errors severalfacts can be highlighted:The percentage of expressions completely andcorrectly recognized and normalized is good butthere are some missing expressions, mainly dueto their complexity (or fuzziness) and to theabsence of a rule to manage them, i.e.
: ?duranteun largo periodo?
(during a long period).Errors in determining the extent of thetemporal expressions were mainly due to theinclusion of prepositions or articles that precedeto the kernel of the expression, i.e.
: ?a cortoplazo?
vs. ?corto plazo?
(in short term).A number of false positives were due to someinconsistencies in the annotation of the corpus.An example has been observed in fuzzy timeexpressions that denotes a future reference: ?elpr?ximo t?cnico?
(the next trainer) (notannotated) vs. ?el pr?ximo preparador?
(the nextcoach) (FUTURE_REF)Although normalization figures are good,some annotations are incorrect if their resolutionimplies context-aware mechanisms.4 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper a rule based approach forautomatically detecting and annotating temporalexpressions according to TimeML TIMEX3 taghas been presented.
It is based on an empiricalstudy of temporal expressions frequencies inSpanish that provides the main recognition rulesof the knowledge base.
At the normalizationstage, a representation model based on intervalshas been adopted with the aim of capturing mostsemantics.
The annotation process relies onpatterns that distinguish among different typesand granularities of the expressions to be tagged.Obtained results suppose a significantimprovement over our previous work.
Part of thissuccess is due to the specific annotationguidelines for Spanish that have been releasedwith occasion of the TempEval-2.
It is a helpfultool to optimize the system performance, sinceeach language has its own peculiarities thatshould be taken into account.
The promotion of acommon framework and the development ofresources like specific corpora are also veryinteresting topics to boost research in the field,since both comparative and standardizedevaluation of the systems are needed.Several aspects should be taken into accountin future versions of the system.
In order toimprove the recall new knowledge must beincorporated to the rule engine.
That supposesthe addition of new rules and annotation patterns.This objective includes the implementation ofdictionaries with a broader coverage oftranslatable temporal expressions, such asholidays, festivities, etc.We will also explore context extractiontechniques that facilitate the resolution ofcontext-aware temporal expressions.Another pending issue is the enlargement ofthe system to span the detection of events and therelations among events and time expressions.Finally, the system will be integrated into aNLP application that benefits from the temporalinformation management.
We want to check theimprovement that the extraction of temporalentities supposes on a traditional approach.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been partially supported by theResearch Network MAVIR (S-0505/TIC-0267),and project BRAVO (TIN2007-67407-C03-01).ReferencesJames Pustejovsky, Marc Verhagen, Xue Nianwen,Robert Gaizauskas, Mark Hepple, Frank Schilder,Graham Katz, Roser Saur?, Estela Saquete,Tommaso Caselli, Nicoletta Calzolari, Kiyong Lee,and Seohyun Im.
2009.
TempEval2: EvaluatingEvents, Time Expressions and Temporal Relations.SemEval Task Proposal.Mar?a Teresa Vicente-D?ez, Doaa Samy and PalomaMart?nez.
2008.
An empirical approach to apreliminary successful identification and resolutionof temporal expressions in Spanish news corpora.In Proceedings of the LREC'08.Mar?a Teresa Vicente-D?ez, C?sar de Pablo-S?nchezand Paloma Mart?nez.
Evaluaci?n de un Sistema deReconocimiento y Normalizaci?n de ExpresionesTemporales en Espa?ol.
Procesamiento dellenguaje natural.
N. 39 pp.
113-120, Sept. 2007.Roser Saur?, Estela Saquete and James Pustejovsky.2010.
Annotating Time Expressions in Spanish.TimeML Annotation Guidelines.
VersionTempEval-2010.Roser Saur?, Olga Batiukova, James Pustejovsky.2009.
Annotating Events in Spanish.
TimeMLAnnotation Guidelines.
Version TempEval-2010.332
