Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation, ACL 2010, pages 440?443,Uppsala, Sweden, 15-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsYSC-DSAA: An Approach to Disambiguate Sentiment AmbiguousAdjectives Based On SAAOLShi-Cai YangNingbo University of TechnologyNingbo, Zhejiang, Chinanbcysc@126.comMei-Juan LiuZhejiang Ocean UniversityZhoushan, Zhejiang, Chinaazalea1212@126.comAbstractIn this paper, we describe the system we de-veloped for the SemEval-2010 task of disam-biguating sentiment ambiguous adjectives(hereinafter referred to SAA).
Our system cre-ated a new word library named SAA-OrientedLibrary consisting of positive words, negativewords, negative words related to SAA, posi-tive words related to SAA, and inverse words,etc.
Based on the syntactic parsing, we ana-lyzed the relationship between SAA and thekeywords and handled other special processesby extracting such words in the relevant sen-tences to disambiguate sentiment ambiguousadjectives.
Our micro average accuracy is0.942, which puts our system in the first place.1 IntroductionWe participated in disambiguating sentimentambiguous adjectives task of SemEval-2010(Wuand Jin, 2010).Together 14 sentiment ambiguous adjectivesare chosen by the task organizers, which are allhigh-frequency words in Mandarin Chinese.They are: ?|big, ?|small, ?|many, ?|few, ?|high, ?
|low, ?
|thick, ?
|thin, ?
|deep, ?|shallow, ?
|heavy, ?
|light, ??
|huge, ??|grave.
These adjectives are neutral out of con-text, but when they co-occur with some targetnouns, positive or negative emotion will beevoked.
The task is designed to automaticallydetermine the semantic orientation of these sen-timent ambiguous adjectives within context:positive or negative (Wu and Jin, 2010).
For in-stance, ????
|the price is high?
indicatesnegative meaning, while ???
?|the quality ishigh?
has positive connotation.Considering the grammar system of contem-porary Chinese, a word is one of the most basiclinguistic granularities consisting of a sentence.Therefore, as for the sentiment classification of asentence, the sentiment tendency of a sentencecan be identified on the basis of that of a word.Wiebe et al (2004) proposed that whether a sen-tence is subjective or objective should be dis-criminated according to the adjectives in it.
Onthe basis of General Inquirer Dictionary, ALearner?s Dictionary of Positive and NegativeWords, HowNet , A Dictionary of Positive Wordsand A Dictionary of Negative Words etc., Wanget al(2009) built a word library for Chinese sen-timent words to discriminate the sentiment cate-gory of a sentence using the weighted linearcombination method.Unlike the previous researches which have nottaken SAA into consideration specially in dis-criminating the sentiment tendency of a sentence,in the SemEval-2010 task of disambiguating sen-timent ambiguous adjectives, systems have topredict the sentiment tendency of these fourteenadjectives within specific context.From the view of linguistics, first we devel-oped a SAA?oriented keyword library, then ana-lyzed the relationship between the keywords inthe clauses and SAA, and classified its positiveor negative meaning of SAA by extracting theclauses related to SAA in the sentence.2 SAAOLWe create a SAA-oriented library marked asSAAOL which is made up of positive and nega-tive words irrelevant to context, negative wordsrelated to SAA (NSAA), positive words relatedto SAA (PSAA), and inverse words.
The abovefive categories of words are called keywords forshort in the paper.Positive and negative words irrelevant to con-text refer to the traditional positive or negativewords which are gathered from The Dictionary440of Positive Words(Shi, 2005), The Dictionary ofNegative Words(Yang, 2005), HowNet 1  andother network resources, such as Terms of Ad-verse Drug Reaction, Codes of Diseases andSymptoms, etc.Distinguishing from the traditional positiveand negative words, NSAA and PSAA in ourSAAOL refer to those positive and negativewords which are related to SAA, yet not classi-fied into the positive and negative words irrele-vant to context mentioned above.We divide SAA into two categories: A cate-gory and B category listed in Table 1.A category B category?|big ?|small?|many ?|few?|high ?|low?|thick ?|thin?|deep ?|shallow?|heavy ?|light??|huge?
?|graveTable 1: SAA Classification TableWe identify whether a word belongs to NSAAor not on the following principle: any wordswhen used with A category are negative; con-versely, when used with B category, they arepositive.For example, in the following clauses,????
?|oil prices are high?,????
?|the responsibility is important?,????
?| the task is very heavy?,?????
?|the workload is very large?,??
?|oil prices?, ??
?|responsibility?, ??
?|task?, ????|workload?
are NSAA.Correspondingly, we identify whether a wordbelongs to PSAA or not on the following princi-ple: any words when used with A category arepositive; however, when used with B category,they are negative.In the clauses,????
?| much food?,????
?| efficiency is extremely low?,?????
?|interest rate on deposit is high?,???
| food?, ???
| efficiency?, ????
?|interest rate on deposit?
are PSAA.In general, when two negative words are usedtogether, the sentiment tendency that they showis negative.
For instances, ??????
?1 http://www.keenage.com.|incidence of diabetes?, ????
?|virus infec-tion?, ????
?|destruction of wars?.
However,in certain cases, some words play a part in elimi-nating negative meaning when used with nega-tive words, for example, ??
|anti-?
, ??
?|restrain?, ???
|avoid?, ??
|resist?, ??
?|reduce?, ???
|fall?, ???
|decrease?, ??
?|control?, ???
|cost?, ???
|oppose?, ??
?|decrease?, ??
|non-?, ??
|not?.
These specialwords are called inverse words in our SAAOL.In the following instances, ????
?|reducethe injury?, ????
?| curb inflation?, ??
?|anti-war?, the words ??
?|injury?, ??
?| infla-tion?, and ?
??|war?
themselves are all nega-tive.
When used with the inverse words??
?|reduce ?, ??
?| curb?, ?
?|anti-?, they expresspositive meaning instead.On the basis of the above collected word li-brary, we discriminate manually the positive andnegative meaning, PSAA, NSAA, and inversewords in 50,000 Chinese words according toRichard Xiao?s Top 50,000 Chinese Word Fre-quency List, which collects the frequency of thetop 50000 Chinese words covered in the justpublished frequency dictionary of MandarinChinese based on a balanced corpus of ca.
50million words.
The list is available athttp://www.lancs.ac.uk/fass/projects/corpus/data/top50000_Chinese_words.zip.Based on HowNet lexical semantic similaritycomputing(Liu, 2002), Yang and Wu(2009) se-lected the new positive and negative bench-markwords to identify the sentiment tendency byadopting the improved benchmark words and themodified method of computing similarity be-tween words and benchmark words.
Their ac-curacy rate arrived at 98.94%.In light of the errors of manual calibration, weextended the keywords in SAAOL by applyingYang and Wu?s (2009) method and added syn-onymic and antonymous words in it.
Eventuallywe proofread and revised manually the new ex-tended keywords.3 Our methodAccording to the structural characteristics of thesentence, the sentence can be divided into simplesentences and complex sentences.
A simple sen-tence consists of a single clause which contains asubject and a predicate and stands alone as itsown sentence.
However, a complex sentence isthe one which is linked by conjunctions or con-441sists of at least two or more clauses without anyconjunctions in it.A complicated sentence in structure is dividedinto several clauses in accordance with punctua-tions, such as a full stop, or a exclamatory mark,or a comma, or a semicolon, etc.
We analyze thesyntax of the clause by extracting the clause in-cluding SAA and the adjacent one.
We extractSAAOL keywords in the selected clauses, andthen analyze the grammatical relationship be-tween the keywords and SAA.Wang et als research of extraction technologybased on the dependency relation of Chinese sen-timental elements indicated that the dependencyanalyzer designed by Stanford University had notshowed a high rate of accuracy.
And the wrongdependency relation will interfere with the sub-sequent parsing process seriously (Wang, et al,2009).Taking the above factors into consideration,we have not analyzed the dependency relation atpresent.
Through studying abundant instances,we specialize in the structural relationship be-tween the keywords and SAA to extract the rela-tion patterns which have a higher occurrence fre-quency.
In the meantime, inverse words are proc-essed particularly.
Eventually we supplementedmodification of the inaccuracy of automaticsegmented words and some special adverbs, suchas ?| prejudiced, ?|excessive, ?|too.To sum up, based on the word library SAAOLand structural analysis, SAA classification pro-cedures are as follows:?
Step 1 Extract unidentified clauses in-cluding SAA;?
Step 2 Extract the keywords in SAAOLfrom the clause;?
Step 3 Label the sentiment tendency ofeach sentiment word by using SAAOL;?
Step 4 Discriminate the positive or nega-tive meaning of a sentence in accordancewith the different relationships.
If there areno keywords in the sentence, perform step5; otherwise, discrimination is over.?
Step 5 Extract the clauses next to SAA,and identify them according to Steps 2-4.If there are no extractable clauses, markthem as SAA which will be recognized.
Ais for the positives, and B for the negatives.4 EvaluationIn disambiguating sentiment ambiguous adjec-tives task of SemEval-2010, there are 2917 in-stances in test data for 14 Chinese sentiment am-biguous adjectives.
According to the official re-sult of the task, our micro average accuracy is0.942, which puts our system in the first positionamong the participants.Depending upon the answers from organizersof the task, we notice that errors occur mainly inthe following cases.Firstly, there is a key word related to SAA, butit has no such key word in our SAAOL.For instance,????????
pf ????<head>?</head>?
| Why is the usage rate of pf so highin my computer??pf??
?|The usage rate of pf?
should beNSAA, but it does not exist in our SAAOL.Secondly, the sentence itself is too compli-cated to be analyzed effectively in our system sofar.Thirdly, as the imperfection of SAAOL itself,there are some inevitable mistakes in it.For instance,????????????
?<head>?</head> | The diver?s feat is extremely difficult.It is generally known that if the bigger the dif-ficulty of the dive is, the better the diver?s per-formance will be, both of which are of propor-tional relation.
However, generally speaking, thedegree of difficulty is negative.
For this reason,we made a mistake in such instance.5 ConclusionsIn this paper, we describe the approach taken byour systems which participated in the disambigu-ating sentiment ambiguous adjectives task ofSemEval-2010.We created a new word library namedSAAOL.
Through gathering words from relativedictionaries, HowNet, and other network re-sources, we discriminated manually the positiveand negative meaning, PSAA, NSAA, and in-verse words in 50,000 Chinese words accordingto Richard Xiao?s Top 50,000 Chinese WordFrequency List.
And then we extended the key-words in SAAOL by applying Yang?s (2009)method and added synonymic and antonymouswords in it.
Eventually the new extended key-words were proofread and revised manually.Based on SAAOL and structural analysis, wedescribe a procedure to disambiguate sentiment442ambiguous adjectives.
Evaluation results showthat this approach achieves good performance inthe task.ReferencesQun Liu, JianSu Li.
2002.
Calculation of semanticsimilarity of words based on the HowNet.
TheThird Chinese Lexical Semantics Workshop.Tai Bei.Jilin Shi, Yinggui Zhu.
2005.
A Dictionary of Posi-tive Words.
Lexicographical Publishing House,Chengdu, Sichuan.Su Ge Wang, An Na Yang, De Yu Li.
2009.
Researchon sentence sentiment classification based on Chi-nese sentiment word table.
Computer Engineer-ing and Applications, 45(24):153-155.Qian Wang, TingTing He, et al 2009.
Research ondependency Tree-Based Chinese sentimental ele-ments extraction, Advances of ComputationalLinguistics in China, 624-629.Janyce Wiebe, Theresa Wilson, et al 2004.
Learningsubjective language.
Computational Linguistics,30(3): 277-308.Yunfang Wu, Peng Jin.
SemEval-2010 task 18: Dis-ambiguating sentiment ambiguous adjectives.Yu bing Yang, Xian wei Wu.
Improved lexical se-mantic tendentiousness recognition computing.2009.
Computer Engineering and Applications,45(21): 91-93.Ling Yang, Yinggui Zhu.
2005.
A Dictionary ofNegative Words.
Lexicographical PublishingHouse, Chengdu, Sichuan.443
