First Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM), pages 30?37,Montre?al, Canada, June 7-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Building a Multilingual Semantic Network:Identifying Interlingual Links in WikipediaBharath DandalaDept.
of Computer ScienceUniversity of North TexasDenton, TXBharathDandala@my.unt.eduRada MihalceaDept.
of Computer ScienceUniversity of North TexasDenton, TXrada@cs.unt.eduRazvan BunescuSchool of EECSOhio UniversityAthens, Ohiobunescu@ohio.eduAbstractWikipedia is a Web based, freely availablemultilingual encyclopedia, constructed in acollaborative effort by thousands of contribu-tors.
Wikipedia articles on the same topic indifferent languages are connected via interlin-gual (or translational) links.
These links serveas an excellent resource for obtaining lexicaltranslations, or building multilingual dictio-naries and semantic networks.
As these linksare manually built, many links are missingor simply wrong.
This paper describes a su-pervised learning method for generating newlinks and detecting existing incorrect links.Since there is no dataset available to evaluatethe resulting interlingual links, we create ourown gold standard by sampling translationallinks from four language pairs using distanceheuristics.
We manually annotate the sampledtranslation links and used them to evaluate theoutput of our method for automatic link detec-tion and correction.1 IntroductionIn recent years, Wikipedia has been used as a re-source of world knowledge in many natural lan-guage processing applications.
A diverse set oftasks such as text categorization, information ex-traction, information retrieval, question answering,word sense disambiguation, semantic relatedness,and named entity recognition have been shown tobenefit from the semi-structured text of Wikipedia.Most approaches that use the world knowledge en-coded in Wikipedia are statistical in nature andtherefore their performance depends significantlyon the size of Wikipedia.
Currently, the EnglishWikipedia alone has four million articles.
However,the combined Wikipedias for all other languagesgreatly exceed the English Wikipedia in size, yield-ing a combined total of more than 10 million arti-cles in more than 280 languages.1 The rich hyper-link structure of these Wikipedia corpora in differentlanguages can be very useful in identifying variousrelationships between concepts.Wikipedia articles on the same topic in differentlanguages are often connected through interlinguallinks.
These links are the small navigation linksthat show up in the ?Languages?
sidebar in mostWikipedia articles, and they connect an article withrelated articles in other languages.
For instance,the interlingual links for the Wikipedia article about?Football?
connect it to 20 articles in 20 differentlanguages.
In the ideal case, a set of articles con-nected directly or indirectly via such links would alldescribe the same entity or concept.
However, theselinks are produced either by polyglot editors or byautomatic bots.
Editors commonly make mistakesby linking articles that have conceptual drift, or bylinking to a concept at a different level of granularity.For instance, if a corresponding article in one of thelanguages does not exist, a similar article or a moregeneral article about the concept is sometimes linkedinstead.
Various bots also add new interlingual linksor attempt to correct existing ones.
The downside ofa bot is that an error in a translational link createdby editors in Wikipedia for one language propagatesto Wikipedias in other languages.
Thus, if a bot in-troduces a wrong link, one may have to search for1http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Size of Wikipedia30Language Code Articles Redirects UsersEnglish en 4,674,066 4,805,557 16,503,562French fr 3,298,615 789,408 1,250,266German de 3,034,238 678,288 1,398,424Italian it 2,874,747 319,179 731,750Polish pl 2,598,797 158,956 481,079Spanish es 2,587,613 504,062 2,162,925Dutch nl 2,530,250 226,201 446,458Russian ru 2,300,769 682,402 819,812Japanese jp 1,737,565 372,909 607,152Chinese cn 1,199,912 333,436 1,171,148Table 1: Number of articles, redirects, and users for the top nine Wikipedia editions plus Chinese.
The total numberof articles also includes the disambiguation pages.the underlying error in a different language versionof Wikipedia.The contributions of the research described in thispaper are two-fold.
First, we describe the construc-tion of a dataset of interlingual links that are auto-matically sampled from Wikipedia based on a set ofdistance heuristics.
This dataset is manually anno-tated in order to enable the evaluation of methodsfor translational link detection.
Second, we describean automatic model for correcting existing links andcreating new links, with the aim of obtaining a morestable set of interlingual links.
The model?s param-eters are estimated on the manually labeled datasetusing a supervised machine learning approach.The remaining of this paper is organized as fol-lows: Section 2 briefly describes Wikipedia andthe relevant terminology.
Section 3 introduces ourmethod of identifying a candidate set of translationallinks based on distance heuristics, while Section 4introduces the methodology for building a manuallyannotated dataset.
Section 5 describes the machinelearning experiments for detecting or correcting in-terlingual links.
Finally, we present related work inSection 6, and concluding remarks in Section 7.2 WikipediaWikipedia is a free online encyclopedia, represent-ing the outcome of a continuous collaborative effortof a large number of volunteer contributors.
Virtu-ally any Internet user can create or edit a Wikipediawebpage, and this ?freedom of contribution?
has apositive impact on both the quantity (fast-growingnumber of articles) and the quality (potential errorsare quickly corrected within the collaborative envi-ronment) of this online resource.The basic entry in Wikipedia is an article (orpage), which defines and describes an entity or anevent, and consists of a hypertext document with hy-perlinks to other pages within or outside Wikipedia.The role of the hyperlinks is to guide the reader topages that provide additional information about theentities or events mentioned in an article.
Articlesare organized into categories, which in turn are or-ganized into category hierarchies.
For instance, thearticle automobile is included in the category vehi-cle, which in turn has a parent category named ma-chine, and so forth.Each article in Wikipedia is uniquely referencedby an identifier, consisting of one or more wordsseparated by spaces or underscores and occasionallya parenthetical explanation.
For example, the articlefor bar with the meaning of ?counter for drinks?
hasthe unique identifier bar (counter).Wikipedia editions are available for more than280 languages, with a number of entries vary-ing from a few pages to three millions articles ormore per language.
Table 1 shows the nine largestWikipedias (as of March 2012) and the ChineseWikipedia, along with the number of articles and ap-proximate number of contributors.2The ten languages mentioned above are also thelanguages used in our experiments.
Note that Chi-2http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/List of Wikipedias#Grand Total31Relation Exists ViaSYMMETRYen=Ball de=Ball Yes -en=Hentriacontane it=Entriacontano No -TRANSITIVITYen=Deletion (phonology) fr=Amu?
?ssement Yes nl=Deletie (taalkunde)en=Electroplating fr=Galvanoplastie No -REDIRECTIONSen=Gun Dog de=Schiesshund Yes de=Jagdhunden=Ball de=Ball No -Table 2: Symmetry, transitivity, and redirections in Wikipedianese is the twelfth largest Wikipedia, but we decidedto include it at the cost of not covering the tenthlargest Wikipedia (Portuguese), which has closesimilarities with other languages already covered(e.g., French, Italian, Spanish).Relevant for the work described in this paper arethe interlingual links, which explicitly connect arti-cles in different languages.
For instance, the Englisharticle for bar (unit) is connected, among others, tothe Italian article bar (unita?
di misura) and the Pol-ish article bar (jednostka).
On average, about half ofthe articles in a Wikipedia version include interlin-gual links to articles in other languages.
The numberof interlingual links per article varies from an aver-age of five in the English Wikipedia, to ten in theSpanish Wikipedia, and as many as 23 in the ArabicWikipedia.3 Identifying Interlingual Links inWikipediaThe interlingual links connecting Wikipedias in dif-ferent languages should ideally be symmetric andtransitive.
The symmetry property indicates that ifthere is an interlingual link A?
?
A?
between twoarticles, one in language ?
and one in language ?,then the reverse link A?
?
A?
should also existin Wikipedia.
According to the transitivity property,the presence of two links A?
?
A?
and A?
?
A?indicates that the link A?
?
A?
should also existin Wikipedia, where ?, ?
and ?
are three differentlanguages.
While these properties are intuitive, theyare not always satisfied due to Wikipedia?s editorialpolicy that accredits editors with the responsibilityof maintaining the articles.
Table 2 shows actualLink Total number Newly addedtype of links linksDL 26,836,572 -RL 26,836,572 1,277,760DP2/RP2 25,763,689 853,658DP3/RP3 23,383,535 693,262DP4/RP4 21,560,711 548,354Table 3: Number of links identified in Wikipedia, as di-rect, symmetric, or transitional links.
The number ofnewly added links, not known in the previous set of links,is also indicated (e.g., DP3/RP3 adds 693,262 new linksnot found by direct or symmetric links, or by direct orreverse paths of length two).cases in Wikipedia where these properties fail dueto missing interlingual links.
The table also showsexamples where the editors link an article from onelanguage to a redirect page in another language.In order to generate a normalized set of inter-lingual links between Wikipedias, we replace all theredirect pages with the corresponding original arti-cles, so that each concept in a language is repre-sented by one unique article.
We then identify thefollowing four types of simple interlingual paths be-tween articles in different languages:DL: Direct links A?
?
A?
between two articles.RL: Reverse links A?
?
A?
between two articles.DPk: Direct, simple paths of length k between twoarticles.RPk: Reverse, simple paths of length k betweentwo articles.32Relation Number of pathsDLen=Ball de=Ball 1en=Ball it=Palla (sport) 1en=Ball fr=Boule (solide) 0de=Ball fr=Ballon (sport) 0RLen=Ball de=Ball 1en=Ball it=Palla(sport) 1en=Ball fr=Boule (solide) 0de=Ball fr=Ballon (sport) 0DP2en=Ball de=Ball 1en=Ball it=Palla (sport) 2en=Ball fr=Boule (solide) 1de=Ball fr=Ballon (sport) 2DP3en=Ball de=Ball 1en=Ball it=Palla (sport) 0en=Ball fr=Boule (solide) 1de=Ball fr=Ballon (sport) 1DP4en=Ball de=Ball 0en=Ball it=Palla (sport) 0en=Ball fr=Boule (solide) 1de=Ball fr=Ballon (sport) 0RP2en=Ball de=Ball 1en=Ball it=Palla (sport) 2en=Ball fr=Boule (solide) 0de=Ball fr=Ballon (sport) 2RP3en=Ball de=Ball 1en=Ball it=Palla (sport) 0en=Ball fr=Boule (solide) 0de=Ball fr=Ballon (sport) 1RP4en=Ball de=Ball 0en=Ball it=Palla (sport) 0en=Ball fr=Boule (solide) 0de=Ball fr=Ballon (sport) 0Table 4: A subset of the direct links, reverse links, andinferred direct and reverse paths for the graph in Figure 1en=Ballde=Ballit=Palla(sport) fr=Boule(solide)fr=Ballon(sport)Figure 1: A small portion of the multilingual Wikipediagraph.Figure 1 shows a small portion of the Wikipediagraph, connecting Wikipedias in four languages:English, German, Italian, and French.
Correspond-ingly, Table 4 shows a subset of the direct links DL,reverse links RL, direct translation paths DPk andreverse translation paths RPk of lengths k = 2, 3, 4for the graph in the figure.Using these distance heuristics, we are able toextract or infer a very large number of interlinguallinks.
Table 3 shows the number of direct links ex-tracted from the ten Wikipedias we currently workwith, as well as the number of paths that we add byenforcing the symmetry and transitivity properties.4 Manual Evaluation of the InterlingualLinksThe translation links in Wikipedia, whether addedby the Wikipedia editors (direct links), or inferred bythe heuristics described in the previous section, arenot guaranteed for quality.
In fact, previous work (deMelo and Weikum, 2010b) has shown that a largenumber of the links created by the Wikipedia usersare incorrect, connecting articles that are not transla-tions of each other, subsections of articles, or disam-biguation pages.
We have therefore decided to runa manual annotation study in order to determine thequality of the interlingual links.
The resulting anno-tation can serve both as a gold standard for evaluat-ing the quality of predicted links, and as supervisionfor a machine learning model that would automati-cally detect translation links.33Language pair 0 1 2 3 4(English, German) 46 8 29 2 110(English, Spanish) 22 19 19 13 123(Italian, French) 30 7 19 7 132(Spanish, Italian) 21 8 17 13 136Table 6: Number of annotations on a scale of 0-4 for eachpair of languagesFrom the large pool of links directly available inWikipedia or inferred automatically through sym-metry and transitivity, we sampled and then man-ually annotated 195 pairs of articles for each offour language pairs: (English, German), (English,Spanish), (Italian, French), and (Spanish, Italian).The four language pairs were determined based onthe native or near-native knowledge available in thegroup of annotators in our research group.
The sam-pling of the article pairs was done such that it cov-ers all the potentially interesting cases obtained bycombining the heuristics used to identify interlin-gual links.
The left side of Table 5 shows the com-bination of heuristics used to select the article pairs.For each such combination, and for each languagepair, we randomly selected 15 articles.
Furthermore,we added 15 randomly selected pairs for the highestquality combination (Case 1).For each language pair, the sampled links wereannotated by one human judge, with the exception ofthe (English, Spanish) dataset, which was annotatedby two judges so that we could measure the inter-annotator agreement.
The annotators were asked tocheck the articles in each link and annotate the linkon a scale from 0 to 4, as follows:4: Identical concepts that are perfect translationsof each other.3: Concepts very close in meaning, which aregood translations of each other, but a bettertranslation for one of the concepts in the pairalso exists.
The annotators are not required toidentify a better translation in Wikipedia, theyonly have to use their own knowledge of thelanguage, e.g.
?building?
(English) may be agood translation for ?tore?
(Spanish), yet a bet-ter translation is known to exist.2: Concepts that are closely related but that are nottranslations of each other.1: Concepts that are remotely related and are nottranslations of each other.0: Completely unrelated concepts or links be-tween an article and a portion of another arti-cle.To determine the quality of the annotations,we ran an inter-annotator study for the (English-Spanish) language pair.
The two annotators had aPearson correlation of 70%, which indicates goodagreement.
We also calculated their agreementwhen grouping the ratings from 0 to 4 in only twocategories: 0, 1, and 2 were mapped to no transla-tion, whereas 3 and 4 were mapped to translation.On this coarse scale, the annotators agreed 84% ofthe time, with a kappa value of 0.61, which onceagain indicate good agreement.The annotations are summarized in the right sideof Table 5.
For each quality rating, the table showsthe number of links annotated with that rating.
Notethat this is a summary over the annotations of fiveannotators, corresponding to the four language pairs,as well as an additional annotation for (English,Spanish).Not surprisingly, the links that are ?supported?
byall the heuristics considered (Case 1) are the linkswith the highest quality.
These are interlingual linksthat are present in Wikipedia and that can also beinferred through transitive path heuristics.
Interest-ingly, links that are only guaranteed to have a directlink (DL) and no reverse link (RL) (Case 2) have arather low quality, with only 68% of the links beingconsidered to represent a perfect or a good transla-tion (score of 3 or 4).Table 6 summarizes the annotations per languagepair.
There appear to be some differences in thequality of interlingual links extracted or inferred fordifferent languages, with (Spanish, Italian) being thepair with the highest quality of links (76% of thelinks are either perfect or good translations), whileEnglish to German seems to have the lowest quality(only 57% of the links are perfect or good).
For the(English, Spanish) pair, we used the average of thetwo annotators?
ratings, rounded up to the nearestinteger.34Combinations of heuristics to extract or infer interlingual links Link quality on a 0-4 scaleCases DL RL DP2 RP2 DP3 RP3 DP4 RP4 Samples 0 1 2 3 4Case 1 y y y y y y y y 30 6 3 6 6 129Case 2 y n - - - - - - 15 15 3 6 3 48Case 3 n y - - - - - - 15 13 3 8 4 47Case 4 n n y y - - - - 15 6 3 16 4 46Case 5 n n - - y y - - 15 13 9 12 4 28Case 6 n n - - - - y y 15 15 8 3 8 37Case 7 n n n n - - - - 15 19 8 11 5 31Case 8 n n - - n n - - 15 13 8 11 5 32Case 9 n n - - - - n n 15 25 4 11 2 33Case 10 y y n n - - - - 15 6 3 4 3 59Case 11 y y - - n n - - 15 6 2 3 0 64Case 12 y y - - - - n n 15 3 6 2 4 60Table 5: Left side of the table: distance heuristics and number of samples based on each distance heuristic.
?y?
indicatesthat the corresponding path should exist, ?n?
indicates that the corresponding path should not exist, ?-?
indicates thatwe don?t care whether the corresponding path exists or not.
Right side of the table: manual annotations of the qualityof links, on a scale of 0 to 4, with 4 meaning perfect translations.5 Machine Learning ExperimentsThe manual annotations described above are goodindicators of the quality of the interlingual links thatcan be extracted and inferred in Wikipedia.
But suchmanual annotations, because of the human effort in-volved, do not scale up, and therefore we cannot ap-ply them on the entire interlingual Wikipedia graphto determine the links that should be preserved or theones that should be removed.Instead, we experiment with training machinelearning models that would automatically determinethe quality of an interlingual link.
As features, weuse the presence or absence of direct or symmet-ric links, along with the number of inferred paths oflength k = 2, 3, 4, as defined in Section 3.
Table 7shows the feature vectors for the same four pairs ofarticles that were used in Table 4.
The feature val-ues are computed based on the sample network ofinterlingual links from Figure 1.
Each feature vectoris assigned a numerical class, corresponding to themanual annotation provided by the human judges.We conduct two experiments, at a fine-grainedand a coarse-grained level.
In both experiments, weuse all the annotations for all four language pairs to-gether (i.e., a total of 780 examples), and performevaluations in a ten-fold cross validation scenario.For the fine-grained experiments, we use all fivenumerical classes in a linear regression model.3 Wedetermine the correctness of the predictions on thetest data by calculating the Pearson correlation withrespect to the gold standard.
The resulting corre-lation was measured at 0.461.
For comparison, wealso run an experiment where we only keep the pres-ence or absence of the direct links as a feature (DL).In this case, the correlation was measured at 0.418,which is substantially below the correlation obtainedwhen using all the features.
This indicates that theinterlingual links inferred through our heuristics areindeed useful.In the coarse-grained experiments, the quality rat-ings 0, 1, and 2 are mapped to the no translationlabel, while ratings 3 and 4 are mapped to the trans-lation label.
We used the Ada Boost classifier withdecision stumps as the binary classification algo-rithm.
When using the entire feature vectors, theaccuracy is measured at 73.97%, whereas the useof only the direct links results in an accuracy of69.35%.
Similar to the fine-grained linear regres-sion experiments, these coarse-grained experimentsfurther validate the utility of the interlingual linksinferred through the transitive path heuristics.3We use the Weka machine learning toolkit.35Concept pair DL RL DP2 DP3 DP4 RP2 RP3 RP4 Classen=Ball de=Ball 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 4en=Ball it=Palla (sport) 1 1 2 0 0 2 0 0 4en=Ball fr=Boule (solide) 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 1de=Ball fr=Ballon (sport) 0 0 2 1 0 2 1 0 4Table 7: Examples of feature vectors generated for four interlingual links, corresponding to the concept pairs listed inTable 46 Related WorkThe multilingual nature of Wikipedia has been al-ready exploited to solve several number of languageprocessing tasks.
A number of projects have usedWikipedia to build a multilingual semantic knowl-edge base by using the existing multilingual natureof Wikipedia.
For instance, (Ponzetto and Strube,2007) derived a large scale taxonomy from the ex-isting Wikipedia.
In related work, (de Melo andWeikum, 2010a) worked on a similar problem inwhich they combined all the existing multilingualWikipedias to build a stable, large multilingual tax-onomy.The interlingual links have also been used forcross-lingual information retrieval (Nguyen et al,2009) or to generate bilingual parallel corpora (Mo-hammadi and QasemAghaee, 2010).
(Ni et al,2011) used multilingual editions of Wikipedia tomine topics for the task of cross lingual text clas-sification, while (Hassan and Mihalcea, 2009) usedWikipedias in different languages to measure cross-lingual semantic relatedness between concepts andtexts in different languages.
(Bharadwaj et al, 2010)explored the use of the multilingual links to minedictionaries for under-resourced languages.
Theydeveloped an iterative approach to construct a par-allel corpus, using the interlingual links, info boxes,category pages, and abstracts, which they then beused to extract a bilingual dictionary.
(Navigli andPonzetto, 2010) explored the connections that canbe drawn between Wikipedia and WordNet.
Whileno attempts were made to complete the existing linkstructure of Wikipedia, the authors made use of ma-chine translation to enrich the resource.The two previous works most closely related toours are the systems introduced in (Sorg and Cimi-ano, 2008) and (de Melo and Weikum, 2010a; deMelo and Weikum, 2010b).
(Sorg and Cimiano,2008) designed a system that predicts new interlin-gual links by using a classification based approach.They extract certain types of links from bilingualWikipedias, which are then used to create a set offeatures for the machine learning system.
In follow-up work, (Erdmann et al, 2008; Erdmann et al,2009) used an expanded set of features, which alsoaccounted for direct links, redirects, and links be-tween articles in Wikipedia, to identify entries for abilingual dictionary.
In this line of work, the focus ismainly on article content analysis, as a way to detectnew potential translations, rather than link analysisas done in our work.Finally, (de Melo and Weikum, 2010b) designeda system that detects errors in the existing interlin-gual links in Wikipedia.
They show that there are alarge number of links that are imprecise or wrong,and propose the use of a weighted graph to producea more consistent set of consistent interlingual links.Their work is focusing primarily on correcting ex-isting links in Wikipedia, rather than inferring newlinks as we do.7 ConclusionsIn this paper, we explored the identification of trans-lational links in Wikipedia.
By using a set of heuris-tics that extract and infer links between Wikipediasin different languages, along with a machine learn-ing algorithm that builds upon these heuristics todetermine the quality of the interlingual links, weshowed that we can both correct existing transla-tional links in Wikipedia as well as discover newinterlingual links.
Additionally, we have also con-structed a manually annotated dataset of interlinguallinks, covering different types of links in four pairsof languages, which can serve as a gold standard forevaluating the quality of predicted links, and as su-pervision for the machine learning model.36In future work, we plan to experiment with ad-ditional features to enhance the performance of theclassifier.
In particular, we would like to also includecontent-based features, such as content overlap andinterlinking.The collection of interlingual links for the tenWikipedias considered in this work, as well as themanually annotated dataset are publicly available athttp://lit.csci.unt.edu.AcknowledgmentsThis material is based in part upon work sup-ported by the National Science Foundation IISawards #1018613 and #1018590 and CAREERaward #0747340.
Any opinions, findings, and con-clusions or recommendations expressed in this ma-terial are those of the authors and do not necessarilyreflect the views of the National Science Foundation.ReferencesG.R.
Bharadwaj, N. Tandon, and V. Varma.
2010.An iterative approach to extract dictionaries fromWikipedia for under-resourced languages.
Kharagpur,India.G.
de Melo and G. Weikum.
2010a.
MENTA: induc-ing multilingual taxonomies from Wikipedia.
In Pro-ceedings of the 19th ACM international conference onInformation and knowledge management, pages 1099?1108, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.G.
de Melo and G. Weikum.
2010b.
Untangling thecross-lingual link structure of Wikipedia.
In Proceed-ings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 844?853, Strouds-burg, PA, USA.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.M.
Erdmann, K. Nakayama, T. Hara, and S. Nishio.2008.
An approach for extracting bilingual terminol-ogy from Wikipedia.
In Proceedings of the 13th In-ternational Conference on Database Systems for Ad-vanced Applications.M.
Erdmann, K. Nakayama, T. Hara, and S. Nishio.2009.
Improving the extraction of bilingual termi-nology from Wikipedia.
ACM Transactions on Multi-media Computing, Communications and Applications,5(4):31:1?31:17.S.
Hassan and R. Mihalcea.
2009.
Cross-lingual seman-tic relatedness using encyclopedic knowledge.
In Pro-ceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods inNatural Language Processing (EMNLP), Suntec, Sin-gapore.M.
Mohammadi and N. QasemAghaee.
2010.
Build-ing bilingual parallel corpora based on Wikipedia.
In-ternational Conference on Computer Engineering andApplications, 2:264?268.R.
Navigli and S. Ponzetto.
2010.
Babelnet: Building avery large multilingual semantic network.
In Proceed-ings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Uppsala, Sweden.D.
Nguyen, A. Overwijk, C. Hauff, D. Trieschnigg,D.
Hiemstra, and F. De Jong.
2009.
WikiTrans-late: query translation for cross-lingual information re-trieval using only Wikipedia.
In Proceedings of the9th Cross-language evaluation forum conference onEvaluating systems for multilingual and multimodalinformation access, pages 58?65, Berlin, Heidelberg.Springer-Verlag.X.
Ni, J.
Sun, J. Hu, and Z. Chen.
2011.
Cross lingualtext classification by mining multilingual topics fromWikipedia.
In Proceedings of the fourth ACM inter-national conference on Web search and data mining,pages 375?384, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.S.
Ponzetto and M. Strube.
2007.
Deriving a large scaletaxonomy from Wikipedia.
In Proceedings of the 22ndnational conference on Artificial intelligence - Volume2, pages 1440?1445.
AAAI Press.P.
Sorg and P. Cimiano.
2008.
Enriching the crosslinguallink structure of Wikipedia - a classification-based ap-proach.
In Proceedings of the AAAI 2008 Workshopon Wikipedia and Artificial Intelligence.37
