First Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM), pages 378?384,Montre?al, Canada, June 7-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemEval-2012 Task 5: Chinese Semantic Dependency ParsingWanxiang Che?, Meishan Zhang?, Yanqiu Shao?, Ting Liu?
?Research Center for Social Computing and Information RetrievalHarbin Institute of Technology, China{car, mszhang, tliu}@ir.hit.edu.cn?Beijing City University, Chinayqshao@bcu.edu.cnAbstractThe paper presents the SemEval-2012 SharedTask 5: Chinese Semantic Dependency Pars-ing.
The goal of this task is to identify the de-pendency structure of Chinese sentences fromthe semantic view.
We firstly introduce themotivation of providing Chinese semantic de-pendency parsing task, and then describe thetask in detail including data preparation, dataformat, task evaluation, and so on.
Over tenthousand sentences were labeled for partici-pants to train and evaluate their systems.
Atlast, we briefly describe the submitted systemsand analyze these results.1 IntroductionSemantic analysis is a long-term goal of NaturalLanguage Processing, and as such, has been re-searched for several decades.
A number of tasksfor encoding semantic information have been devel-oped over the years, such as entity type recognitionand word sense disambiguation.
Recently, sentence-level semantics ?
in particular, semantic role label-ing ?
has received increasing attention.
However,some problems concerning the semantic representa-tion method used in semantic role labeling continueto exist (Xue and Palmer, 2005).1.
Semantic role labeling only considerspredicate-argument relations and ignoresthe semantic relations between a noun and itsmodifier.2.
The meaning of semantic roles is related to spe-cial predicates.
Therefore, there are infinite se-mantic roles to be learned, as the number ofpredicates is not fixed.
Although the Prop-Bank (Xue and Palmer, 2003) normalizes thesesemantic roles into certain symbols, such asArg0-Arg5, the same symbol can have differentsemantic meanings when paired with differentpredicates, and thus cannot be learned well.Semantic dependency parsing is therefore pro-posed to solve the two problems above for Chinese.Firstly, the proposed method analyzes all the words?semantic roles in a sentence and specifies the con-crete semantic relation of each word pair.
After-ward, this work analyzes and summarizes all thepossible semantic roles, obtaining over 100 of them,and then uses these semantic roles to specify the se-mantic relation for each word pair.Dependency parsing (Ku?bler et al, 2009) is basedon dependency grammar.
It has several advantages,such as concise formalization, easy comprehension,high efficiency, and so on.
Dependency parsinghas been studied intensively in recent decades, withmost related work focusing on syntactic structure.Many research papers on Chinese linguistics demon-strate the remarkable difference between semanticsand syntax (Jin, 2001; Zhou and Zhang, 2003).Chinese is a meaning-combined language with veryflexible syntax, and semantics are more stable thansyntax.
The word is the basic unit of semantics,and the structure and meaning of a sentence consistsmainly of a series of semantic dependencies betweenindividual words (Li et al, 2003).
Thus, a reason-able endeavor is to exploit dependency parsing forsemantic analysis of Chinese languages.
Figure 1shows an example of Chinese semantic dependencyparsing.378?
?International ?
?Monetary ?
?Fund ?
?organization ?
?turn down ?for ?
?global ?
?economy ?
?increasing ?of ?
?predictiond-genetived-restrictive d-restrictive agent prep-dependd-genetive d-domain aux-dependd-restrictivecontentrootFigure 1: An example of Chinese Semantic Dependency Parsing.Figure 1 shows that Chinese semantic dependencyparsing looks very similar to traditional syntax-dominated dependency parsing.
Below is a compar-ison between the two tasks, dealing with three mainpoints:1.
Semantic relations are more fine-grained thansyntactic ones: the syntactic subject can eitherbe the agent or experiencer, and the syntacticobject can be the content, patient, possession,and so on.
On the whole, the number of seman-tic relations is at least twice that of syntacticrelations.2.
Semantic dependency parsing builds the depen-dency structure of a sentence in terms of se-mantics, and the word pairs of a dependencyshould have a direct semantic relation.
Thiscriterion determines many sizeable differencesbetween semantics and syntax, especially inphrases formed by ?XP+DEG?, ?XP+DEV?and prepositional phrases.
For example, in ???
?
???
(beautiful country), the head of????
(beautiful) is ????
(country) in se-mantic dependency parsing, whereas the headis ???
(de) in syntax dependency parsing.3.
Semantic relations are independent of position.For example, in ???
?
???
(the air iscontaminated) and ???
?
???
(contami-nate the air), the patient ????
(the air) can bebefore or behind a predicate ????
(contami-nate).The rest of the paper is organized as follows.
Sec-tion 2 gives a short overview of data annotation.Section 3 focuses on the task description.
Section4 describes the participant systems.
Section 5 com-pares and analyzes the results.
Finally, Section 6concludes the paper.2 Data Annotation2.1 Corpus Section10,068 sentences were selected from the Penn Chi-nese Treebank 6.01 (Xue et al, 2005) (1-121, 1001-1078, 1100-1151) as the raw corpus from which tocreate the Chinese Semantic Dependency Parsingcorpus.
These sentences were chosen for the anno-tation for three reasons.
First, gold syntactic depen-dency structures can be of great help in semantic de-pendency annotation, as syntactic dependency arcsare often consistent with semantic ones.
Second, thesemantic role labels in PropBank2 can be very use-ful in the present annotation work.
Third, the goldword segmentation and Part-Of-Speech can be usedas the annotation input in this work.2.2 Semantic RelationsThe semantic relations in the prepared Chinese se-mantic dependency parsing corpus came mostlyfrom HowNet3 (Dong and Dong, 2006), a fa-mous Chinese semantic thesaurus.
We also referredto other sources.
Aside from the relations fromHowNet, we defined two kinds of new relations: re-verse relations and indirect relations.
When a verbmodifies a noun, the relation between them is a re-verse relation, and r-XXX is used to indicate thiskind of relation.
For instance, in ?????????
(the little boy who is playing basketball), the se-mantic relation between the head word ????
(boy)1http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/catalogEntry.jsp?catalog\\Id=LDC2007T362http://verbs.colorado.edu/chinese/cpb/3http://www.keenage.com/379and ???
(playing) is the r-agent.
When a verbalnoun is the head word, the relation between it andthe modifier is the indirect relation j-XXX.
For in-stance, in ??????
(business management), thehead word is ????
(management) and the modifieris ????
(business), their relation is j-patient.Finally, we defined 84 single-level semantic re-lations.
The number of multi-level semantic rela-tions that actually appear in the labeled corpus inthis work is 39.Table 1 summarizes all of the semantic relationsused for annotation.2.3 Annotation FlowOur corpus annotation flow can be divided into thefollowing steps.1.
Conversion of the sentences?
constituent struc-tures into dependency structures according toa set of rules similar with those used by thesyntactic community to find the head of aphrase (Collins, 1999).2.
Labeling of the semantic relations for each de-pendency relation according to another set ofrules using the functional tags in the Penn Chi-nese Treebank and the semantic roles in theChinese PropBank.3.
Six human annotators are asked to check andadjust the structure and semantic relation errorsintroduced in Step 2.The first two steps were performed automaticallyusing rules.
A high accuracy may be achieved withdependency structures when semantic labels are notconsidered.
However, accuracy declines remarkablywhen the semantic label is considered.
UnlabeledAttachment Score (UAS) and Labeled AttachmentScore (LAS) can be used to evaluate the perfor-mance of the automatic conversion.
Table 2 givesthe detailed results.UAS LASConversion Result 90.53 57.38Table 2: Accuracy after conversion from gold ProbBank.3 Task Description3.1 Corpus StatisticsWe annotated 10,068 sentences from the Penn Chi-nese TreeBank for Semantic Dependency Parsing,and these sentences were divided into training, de-velopment, and test sections.
Table 3 gives the de-tailed statistical information of the three sections.Data Set CTB files # sent.
# words.1-10; 36-65;81-121; 8301Training 1001-1078; 2503111100-1119;1126-1140Devel 66-80; 1120-1125 534 15329Test 11-35; 1141-1151 1233 34311Total 1-121; 1001-1078 10068 2999511100-1151Table 3: Statistics of training, development and test data.3.2 Data FormatThe data format is identical to that of a syntactic de-pendency parsing shared task.
All the sentences arein one text file, with each sentence separated by ablank line.
Each sentence consists of one or more to-kens, and each token is represented on one line con-sisting of 10 fields.
Buchholz and Marsi (2006) pro-vide more detailed information on the format.
Fieldsare separated from each other by a tab.
Only five ofthe 10 fields are used: token id, form, pos tagger,head, and deprel.
Head denotes the semantic depen-dency of each word, and deprel denotes the corre-sponding semantic relations of the dependency.
Inthe data, the lemma column is filled with the formand the cpostag column with the postag.
Figure 2shows an example.3.3 Evaluation MethodLAS, which is a method widely used in syntacticdependency parsing, is used to evaluate the perfor-mance of the semantic dependency parsing system.LAS is the proportion of ?scoring?
tokens assignedto both the correct head and correct semantic depen-dency relation.
Punctuation is disregarded duringthe evaluation process.
UAS is another importantindicator, as it reflects the accuracy of the semanticdependency structure.380Main Semantic RolesSubject Roles agent, experiencer, causer, possessor, existent, whole, relevantObject Roles isa, content, possession, patient, OfPart, beneficiary, contrast,partner, basis, cause, cost, scope, concerningAuxiliary Semantic RolesTime Roles duration, TimeFin, TimeIni, time, TimeAdvLocation and State Roles LocationFin, LocationIni, LocationThru, StateFin, state,StateIni, direction, distance, locationOthers Verb Modifiers accompaniment, succeeding, frequency, instrument, material,means, angle, times, sequence, sequence-p, negation, degree,modal, emphasis, manner, aspect, commentAttribute RolesDirect modifiers d-genetive, d-category, d-member, d-domain, d-quantity-p, d-quantity, d-deno-p, d-deno, d-host, d-TimePhrase, d-LocPhrase,d-InstPhrase, d-attribute, d-restrictive, d-material, d-content, d-sequence, d-sequence-p, qp-modVerb Phrase r-{Main Semantic Roles}, eg: r-agent, r-patient, r-possessorVerb Ellipsis c-{Main Semantic Roles}, eg: c-agent, c-content, c-patientNoun as Predication j-{Main Semantic Roles}, eg: j-agent, j-patient, j-targetSyntactic Roles and OthersSyntactic Roles s-cause, s-concession, s-condition, s-coordinate, s-or, s-progression, s-besides, s-succession, s-purpose, s-measure, s-abandonment, s-preference, s-summary, s-recount, s-concerning,s-resultOthers aux-depend, prep-depend, PU, ROOTTable 1: Semantic Relations defined for Chinese Semantic Dependency Parsing.ID FORM LEMMA CPOS PPOS FEAT HEAD REL PHEAD PREL1 ???
???
NR NR 2 agent2 ?
?
VV VV 0 ROOT3 ??
??
NR NR 4 d-genetive4 ??
??
NN NN 7 s-coordinate5 ?
?
CC CC 7 aux-depend6 ??
??
NR NR 7 d-genetive7 ??
??
NN NN 2 contentFigure 2: Data format of the Chinese Semantic Dependency Parsing corpus.3814 Participating SystemsNine organizations were registered to participate inthe Chinese Semantic Dependency Parsing task.
Fi-nally, nine systems were received from five differentparticipating teams.
These systems are as follows:1.
Zhou Qiaoli-1, Zhou Qiaoli-2, Zhou Qiaoli-3These three systems propose a divide-and-conquer strategy for semantic dependencyparsing.
The Semantic Role (SR) phrases areidentified (Cai et al, 2011) and then replacedby their head or the SR of the head.
The orig-inal sentence is thus divided into two types ofparts that can be parsed separately.
The firsttype is SR phrase parsing, and the second in-volves the replacement of SR phrases with ei-ther their head or the SR of the head.
Finally,the paper takes a graph-based parser (Li et al,2011) as the semantic dependency parser for allparts.
These three systems differ in their phraseidentification strategies.2.
NJU-Parser-1, NJU-Parser-2The NJU-Parser is based on the state-of-the-art MSTParser (McDonald, 2006).
NJU-Parserapplies three methods to enhance semantic de-pendency parsing.
First, sentences are splitinto sub-sentences using commas and semi-colons: (a) sentences are split using only com-mas and semicolons, as in the primary sys-tem, and (b) classifiers are used to determinewhether a comma or semicolon should be usedto split the sentence.
Second, the last characterin a Chinese word is extracted as the lemma,since it usually contains the main sense or se-mantic class.
Third, the multilevel-label is in-troduced into the semantic relation, for exam-ple, the r-{Main Semantic Roles}, with NJU-Parser exploiting special strategies to handle it.However, this third method does not show pos-itive performance.3.
Zhijun Wu-1This system extends the second-order of theMSTParser by adding third-order features, andthen applying this model to Chinese semanticdependency parsing.
In contrast to Koo andCollins (2010) this system does not implementthe third-order model using dynamic program-ming, as it requires O(n4) time.
It first first ob-tained the K-best results of second-order mod-els and then added the third-order features intothe results.4.
ICT-1The ICT semantic dependency parser employsa system-combining strategy to obtain the de-pendency structure and then uses the classifierfrom Le Zhang?s Maximum Entropy Model-ing Toolkit4 to predict the semantic relation foreach dependency.
The system-combining strat-egy involves three steps:?
Parsing each sentence using Nivre?s arcstandard, Nivre?s arc eager (Nivre andNilsson, 2005; Nivre, 2008), and Liang?sdynamic algorithm (Huang and Sagae,2010);?
Combining parses given by the threeparsers into a weighted directed graph;?
Using the Chu-Liu-Edmonds algorithm tosearch for the final parse for each sen-tence.5.
Giuseppe Attardi-SVM-1-R, Giuseppe Attardi-SVM-1-revWe didn?t receive the system description ofthese two systems.5 Results & AnalysisLAS is the main evaluation metric in Chinese Se-mantic Dependency Parsing, whereas UAS is thesecondary metric.
Table 4 shows the results for thesetwo indicators in all participating systems.As shown in Table 4, the Zhou Qiaoli-3 systemachieved the best results with LAS of 61.84.
TheLAS values of top systems are very closely.
We per-formed significance tests5 for top six results.
Table5 shows the results , from which we can see thatthe performances of top five results are comparative(p > 0.1) and the rank sixth system is significantly(p < 10?5) worse than top five results.4http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/s0450736/maxenttoolkit.html5http://www.cis.upenn.edu/?dbikel/download/compare.pl382NJU-Parser-2 NJU-Parser-1 Zhijun Wu-1 Zhou Qiaoli-1 Zhou Qiaoli-2Zhou Qiaoli-3 ?
?
?
?
>NJU-Parser-2 ?
?
?
?
>NJU-Parser-1 ?
?
?
?
>Zhijun Wu-1 ?
?
?
?
>Zhou Qiaoli-1 ?
?
?
?
>Table 5: Significance tests of the top five systems.
?
denotes that the two systems are comparable (p > 0.1), and >means the system of this row is significantly (p < 10?5) better than the system of this column.System LAS UASZhou Qiaoli-3 61.84 80.60NJU-Parser-2 61.64 80.29NJU-Parser-1 61.63 80.35Zhijun Wu-1 61.58 80.64Zhou Qiaoli-1 61.15 80.41Zhou Qiaoli-2 57.55 78.55ICT-1 56.31 73.20Giuseppe Attardi-SVM-1-R 44.46 60.83Giuseppe Attardi-SVM-1-rev 21.86 40.47Average 54.22 72.82Table 4: Results of the submitted systems.The average LAS for all systems was 54.22.Chinese Semantic Dependency Parsing performedmuch more poorly than Chinese Syntactic Depen-dency Parsing due to the increased complexitybrought about by the greater number of semantic re-lations compared with syntactic relations, as well asgreater difficulty in classifying semantic relations.In general, all the systems employed the tradi-tional syntax-dominated dependency parsing frame-works.
Some new methods were proposed forthis task.
Zhou Qiaoli?s systems first identifiedthe semantic role phrase in a sentence, and thenemployed graph-based dependency parsing to ana-lyze the semantic structure of the sentence.
NJU-Parser first split the sentence into sub-sentences,then trained and parsed the sentence based on thesesub-sentences; this was shown to perform well.
Inaddition, ensemble models were also proposed tosolve the task using ICT systems.6 ConclusionWe described the Chinese Semantic DependencyParsing task for SemEval-2012, which is designed toparse the semantic structures of Chinese sentences.Nine results were submitted by five organizations,with the best result garnering an LAS score of 61.84,which is far below the performance of Chinese Syn-tax.
This demonstrates that further research on thestructure of Chinese Semantics is needed.In the future, we will check and improve the anno-tation standards while building a large, high-qualitycorpus for further Chinese semantic research.AcknowledgmentsWe thank the anonymous reviewers for their help-ful comments.
This work was supported by Na-tional Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC)via grant 61133012 and 61170144, and the Na-tional ?863?
Leading Technology Research Projectvia grant 2012AA011102.ReferencesSabine Buchholz and Erwin Marsi.
2006.
Conll-x sharedtask on multilingual dependency parsing.
In Proceed-ings of the Tenth Conference on Computational Nat-ural Language Learning (CoNLL-X), pages 149?164,New York City, June.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Dongfeng Cai, Ling Zhang, Qiaoli Zhou, and Yue Zhao.2011.
A collocation based approach for prepositionalphrase identification.
IEEE NLPKE.Michael Collins.
1999.
Head-Driven Statistical Modelsfor Natural Language Parsing.
Ph.D. thesis, Pennsyl-vania University.Zhendong Dong and Qiang Dong.
2006.
Hownet And theComputation of Meaning.
World Scientific PublishingCo., Inc., River Edge, NJ, USA.Liang Huang and Kenji Sagae.
2010.
Dynamic pro-gramming for linear-time incremental parsing.
In Pro-ceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, pages 1077?1086,383Uppsala, Sweden, July.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Guangjin Jin.
2001.
Theory of modern Chinese verb se-mantic computation.
Beijing University Press.Terry Koo and Michael Collins.
2010.
Efficient third-order dependency parsers.
In Proceedings of the 48thAnnual Meeting of the ACL, number July, pages 1?11.Sandra Ku?bler, Ryan McDonald, and Joakim Nivre.2009.
Dependency Parsing.
In Synthesis Lectures onHuman Language Technologies.Mingqin Li, Juanzi Li, Zhendong Dong, Zuoying Wang,and Dajin Lu.
2003.
Building a large chinese corpusannotated with semantic dependency.
In Proceedingsof the second SIGHAN workshop on Chinese languageprocessing - Volume 17, SIGHAN ?03, pages 84?91,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Zhenghua Li, Min Zhang, Wanxiang Che, Ting Liu, Wen-liang Chen, and Haizhou Li.
2011.
Joint models forchinese pos tagging and dependency parsing.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2011 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1180?1191, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK., July.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Ryan McDonald.
2006.
Discriminative learning andspanning tree algorithms for dependency parsing.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Pennsylvania.Joakim Nivre and Jens Nilsson.
2005.
Pseudo-projectivedependency parsing.
In Proceedings of the 43rd An-nual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL).Joakim Nivre.
2008.
Algorithms for deterministic incre-mental dependency parsing.
Computational Linguis-tics, 34(4):513?553.Nianwen Xue and Martha Palmer.
2003.
Annotatingthe propositions in the penn chinese treebank.
In Pro-ceedings of the Second SIGHAN Workshop on ChineseLanguage Processing.Nianwen Xue and Martha Palmer.
2005.
Automatic se-mantic role labeling for chinese verbs.
In Proceedingsof the 19th International Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence.Nianwen Xue, Fei Xia, Fu-Dong Chiou, and MarthaPalmer.
2005.
The penn chinese treebank: Phrasestructure annotation of a large corpus.
Natural Lan-guage Engineering, 11(2):207?238.Guoguang Zhou and Linlin Zhang.
2003.
The theoryand method of modern Chinese grammar.
GuangdongHigher Education Press.384
