First Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM), pages 472?476,Montre?al, Canada, June 7-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsUAlacant: Using Online Machine Translation forCross-Lingual Textual EntailmentMiquel Espla`-Gomis and Felipe Sa?nchez-Mart?
?nez and Mikel L. ForcadaDepartament de Llenguatges i Sistemes Informa`ticsUniversitat d?Alacant, E-03071 Alacant, Spain{mespla,fsanchez,mlf}@dlsi.ua.esAbstractThis paper describes a new method for cross-lingual textual entailment (CLTE) detectionbased on machine translation (MT).
We usesub-segment translations from different MTsystems available online as a source of cross-lingual knowledge.
In this work we describeand evaluate different features derived fromthese sub-segment translations, which are usedby a support vector machine classifier to detectCLTEs.
We presented this system to the Se-mEval 2012 task 8 obtaining an accuracy up to59.8% on the English?Spanish test set, the sec-ond best performing approach in the contest.1 IntroductionCross-lingual textual entailment (CLTE) detec-tion (Mehdad et al, 2010) is an extension of thetextual entailment (TE) detection (Dagan et al, 2006)problem.
TE detection consists of finding out, fortwo text fragments T and H in the same language,whether T entails H from a semantic point of viewor not.
CLTE presents a similar problem, but with Tand H written in different languages.During the last years, many authors have focusedon resolving TE detection, as solutions to this prob-lem have proved to be useful in many natural lan-guage processing tasks, such as question answer-ing (Harabagiu and Hickl, 2006) or machine trans-lation (MT) (Mirkin et al, 2009; Pado?
et al, 2009).Therefore, CLTE may also be useful for related tasksin which more than one language is involved, suchas cross-lingual question answering or cross-lingualinformation retrieval.
Although CLTE detection isa relatively new problem, it has already been tack-led.
Mehdad et al (2010) propose to use machinetranslation (MT) to translate H from LH , the lan-guage of H , into LT , the language of T , and then useany of the state-of-the-art TE approaches.
In a laterwork (Mehdad et al, 2011), the authors use MT, butin a more elaborate way.
They train a phrase-basedstatistical MT (PBSMT) system (Koehn et al, 2003)translating from LH to LT , and use the translationtable obtained as a by-product of the training processto extract a set of features which are processed by asupport vector machine classifier (Theodoridis andKoutroumbas, 2009, Sect.
3.7) to decide whether Tentails H or not.
Castillo (2011) discusses anothermachine learning approach in which the features areobtained from semantic similarity measures based onWordNet (Miller, 1995).In this work we present a new approach to tacklethe problem of CLTE detection using a machine learn-ing approach, partly inspired by that of Mehdad etal.
(2011).
Our method uses MT as a source of infor-mation to detect semantic relationships between Tand H .
To do so, we firstly split both T and H intoall the possible sub-segments with lengths between 1and L, the maximum length, measured in words.
Wethen translate the set of sub-segments from T intoLH , and vice versa, and collect all the sub-segmentpairs in a single set.
We claim that when T -sidesub-segments match T and their corresponding H-side sub-segments match H , this reveals a semanticrelationship between them, which can be used to de-termine whether T entails H or not.
Note that MTis used as a black box, i.e.
sub-segment translationsmay be collected from any MT system, and that ourapproach could even use any other sources of bilin-gual sub-sentential information.
It is even possibleto combine different MT systems as we do in ourexperiments.
This is a key point of our work, since472it uses MT in a more elaborate way than Mehdad etal.
(2010), and it does not depend on a specific MTapproach.
Another important difference between thiswork and that of Mehdad et al (2011) is the set offeatures used for classification.The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 de-scribes the method used to collect the MT informa-tion and obtain the features; Section 3 explains theexperimental framework; Section 4 shows the resultsobtained for the different features combination pro-posed; the paper ends with concluding remarks.2 Features from machine translationOur approach uses MT as a black box to detect par-allelisms between the text fragments T and H byfollowing these steps:1.
T is segmented in all possible sub-segmentstm+p?1m of length p with 1 ?
p ?
L and 1 ?m ?
|T | ?
p + 1, where L is the maximumsub-segment length allowed.
Analogously, H issegmented to get al the possible sub-segmentshn+q?1n of length q, with 1 ?
q ?
L and 1 ?n ?
|T | ?
q + 1.2.
The sub-segments obtained from T are trans-lated using all the available MT systems intoLH .
Analogously, the sub-segments from Hare translated into LT , to generate a set of sub-segment pairs (t, h).3.
Those pairs of sub-segments (t, h) such that t isa sub-string of T and h is a sub-string of H areannotated as sub-segment links.Note that it could be possible to use statistical MT totranslate both T and H and then use word alignmentsto obtain the sub-segment links.
However, we use thismethodology to ensure that any kind of MT systemcan be used by our approach.
As a result of thisprocess, a sub-segment in T may be linked to morethan one sub-segment in H , and vice versa.
Basedon these sub-segment links we have designed a set offeatures which may be used by a classifier for CLTE.2.1 Basic features [Bas]We used a set of basic features to represent the infor-mation from the sub-segment links between T and H ,which are computed as the fraction of words in eachof them covered by linked sub-segments of lengthl ?
[1, L].
We define the feature function Fl(S),applied on a text fragment S (either T or H) as:Fl(S) = Cov(S, l)/|S|where Cov(S, l) is a function which obtains the num-ber of words in S covered by at least one sub-segmentof length l which is part of a sub-segment link.
Anadditional feature is computed to represent the totalproportion of words in each text fragment:Ftotal(S) = Cov(S, ?
)/|S|where Cov(S, ?)
is the same as Cov(S, l) but usingsub-segments of any length up to L. Ftotal(S) pro-vide information about overlapping that Fl(S) can-not grasp.
For instance, if we have F1(T ) = 0.5 andF2(T ) = 0.5, we cannot know if the sub-segmentsof l = 1 and l = 2 are covering the same or differentwords, so Ftotal(S) represents the actual proportionof words covered in a text fragment S. These fea-ture functions are applied both on T and H , thusobtaining a set of 2 ?
L+ 2 features, henceforth Bas.2.2 Extensions to the basic featuresSome extensions can be made to the basic featuresdefined above by using additional external resources.In this section we propose two extensions.Separate analysis of function words and contentwords [Spl].
In this case, features represent, sepa-rately, function words, with poor lexical information,and content words, with richer lexical and seman-tic information.
In this way, Fl(S) is divided intoFFl(S) and CFl(S) defined as:FFl(S) = CovF(S, l)/|FW(S)|andCFl(S) = CovC(S, l)/|CW(S)|where FW(S) is a function that returns the func-tion words in text fragment S and CW(S) per-forms the same task for content words.
Analogously,CovF(S, l) and CovC(S, l) are versions of Cov(S, l)which only consider function and content words, re-spectively.
This extension can be also be applied toFtotal(T ) and Ftotal(H).
The set of 4L+ 4 featuresobtained in this way (henceforth Spl) allows the clas-sifier to use the information from the most relevantwords in T and H to detect entailment.473Stemming [Stm and SplStm].
Stemming can alsobe used when detecting the sub-segment links.
Boththe table of sub-segment pairs and the text fragmentpair (T ,H) are stemmed before matching.
In thisway, conflicts of number or gender disagreement inthe translations can be overcome in order to detectmore sub-segment links.
This new extension canbe applied both to Bas, obtaining the set of featuresStm, and to Spl, obtaining the set of features SplStm.Although lemmatization could have been used, stem-ming was preferred because it does not require thepart-of-speech ambiguity to be solved, which maybe difficult to solve when dealing with very shortsub-segments.2.3 Additional featuresTwo additional features were defined unrelated withthe basic features proposed.
The first one, called hereR, is the length ratio |T |/|H|.
Intuitively we canguess that if H is much longer than T it is unlikelythat T entails H .The second additional set of features is the onedefined by Mehdad et al (2011), so we will refer toit as M .
The corresponding feature function com-putes, for the total number of sub-segments of a givenlength l ?
[1, L] obtained from a text fragment S, thefraction of them which appear in a sub-segment link.It is applied both to H and T and is defined as:F ?l (S) = Linkedl(S)/(|S| ?
l + 1)where Linkedl is the number of sub-segments fromS with length l which appear in a sub-segment link.3 Experimental settingsThe experiments designed for this task are aimedat evaluating the features proposed in Section 2.We evaluate our CLTE approach using the English?Spanish data sets provided in the task 8 of SemEval2012 (Negri et al, 2012).Datasets.
Two datasets were provided by the or-ganization of SemEval 2012 (Negri et al, 2011): atraining set and a test set, both composed by a setof 500 pairs of sentences.
CLTE detection is evalu-ated in both directions, so instances belong to one ofthese four classes: forward (the sentence in Spanishentails the one in English); backward (the sentencein English entails the one in Spanish); bidirectional(both sentences entail each other); and no entailment(neither of the sentences entails each other).For the whole data set, both sentences in each in-stance were tokenized using the scripts1 included inthe Moses MT system (Koehn et al, 2007).
Each sen-tence was segmented to get al possible sub-segmentswhich were then translated into the other language.External resources.
We used three different MTsystems to translate the sub-segments from Englishto Spanish, and vice versa:?
Apertium:2 a free/open-source platform for thedevelopment of rule-based MT systems (For-cada et al, 2011).
We used the English?SpanishMT system from the project?s repository3 (revi-sion 34706).?
Google Translate:4 an online MT system byGoogle Inc.?
Microsoft Translator:5 an online MT system byMicrosoft.External resources were also used for the extendedfeatures described in Section 2.2.
We used the stem-mer6 and the stopwords list provided by the SnowBallproject for Spanish7 and English.8Classifier.
We used the implementation of supportvector machine included in the WEKA v.3.6.6 datamining software package (Hall et al, 2009) for multi-class classification, and a polynomial kernel.4 Results and discussionWe tried the different features proposed in Section 2in isolation, and also different combinations of them.Table 1 reports the accuracy for the different fea-tures described in Section 2 on the test set usingsub-segments with lengths up to L = 6.91http://bit.ly/H4LNux2http://www.apertium.org3http://bit.ly/HCbn8a4http://translate.google.com5http://www.microsofttranslator.com6http://bit.ly/H2HU977http://bit.ly/JMybmL8http://bit.ly/Iwg9Vm9All the results in this section are computed with L = 6,which proved to be the value providing the best accuracy for thedataset available after trying different values of L.474Bas ?
Spl ?
Stm ?
SplStm ?M ?R Bas ?
Spl ?M ?RApertium Ap.+Go.+Mi.
Apertium Ap.+Go.+Mi.P R P R P R P RBackward 64.3% 64.8% 64.5% 72.8% 59.1% 64.8% 57.3% 60.0%Forward 65.5% 57.6% 68.9 % 56.8% 59.8% 56.0% 58.7% 59.2%Bidirectional 57.7% 56.8% 56.6% 55.2% 43.7% 41.6% 42.5% 40.8%No-entailment 47.5% 53.6% 50.7% 54.4% 42.5% 43.2% 44.7% 44.0%Accuracy 58.2% 59.8% 51.4% 51.0%Table 2: Precision (P) and recall (R) obtained by our approach for each of the four entailment classes and total accuracyon the English?Spanish test set using different feature combinations and different MT systems: Apertium, and acombination of Apertium, Google Translate, and Microsoft Translator (Ap.+Go.+Mi.
).Feature set Nf AccuracyBas 14 50.0%Spl 28 56.0%Stm 14 49.6%SplStm 28 56.8%R 1 45.8%M 12 47.0%Bas ?
Spl 42 56.6%Bas ?
Stm 28 51.0%Bas ?
Spl ?
Stm ?
SplStm 84 57.4%Bas ?
Spl ?M ?R 41 58.2%Bas ?
Spl ?
Stm ??
SplStm ?M ?R97 59.8%Table 1: Accuracy obtained by the system using the dif-ferent feature sets proposed in Section 2 for the test set.Nf is the number of features.As can be seen, the features providing the bestresults on accuracy are the SplStm features.
In ad-dition, results show that all versions of the basicfeatures (Bas, Spl, Stm, and SplStm) provide betterresults than the M feature alone.
Some combinationsof features are also reported in Table 1.
Althoughmany combinations were tried, we only report theresults of the combinations of features performingbest because of lack of space.As can be seen, both feature combinations Bas ?Spl and Bas ?
Stm obtain higher accuracy than theseparated features.
Combining all these featuresBas ?
Spl ?
Stm ?
SplStm provide even better re-sults, thus confirming some degree of orthogonalitybetween them.
Combination Bas ?
Spl ?M ?
Robtains one of the best results, since it producesan improvement of almost 1% over combinationBas ?
Spl ?
Stm ?
SplStm but using less than ahalf of features.
Combining all the features providesthe best accuracy as expected, so this seems to be thebest combination for the task.Table 2 reports the results sent for the SemEval2012 task 8.
We chose feature combinations Bas ?Spl?M ?R and Bas?Spl?Stm?SplStm?M ?R since they are the best performing combinations.We sent two runs of our method using all three MTsystems described in Section 3 and two more runsusing only sub-segment translations from Apertium.From the ten teams presenting systems for the con-test, only one overcomes our best result.
Even theresults obtained using Apertium as the only MT sys-tem overcome seven of the ten approaches presented.This result confirms that state-of-the-art MT is a richsource of information for CLTE detection.5 Concluding remarksIn this paper we have described a new method forCLTE detection which uses MT as a black-box sourceof bilingual information.
We experimented with dif-ferent features which were evaluated with the datasetsfor task 8 of SemEval 2012.
We obtained up to 59.8%of accuracy on the Spanish?English test set provided,becoming the second best performing approach ofthe contest.
As future works, we are now preparingexperiments for other pairs of languages and we planto use weights to promote those translations comingfrom more-reliable MT systems.Acknowledgements: Work supported by the Span-ish government through project TIN2009-14009-C02-01 and by Universitat d?Alacant through projectGRE11-20.
Google Translate service provided by theUniversity Research Program for Google Translate.We thank M. Negri, Y. Mehdad, and M. Federico forencouraging us to participate in SemEval 2012.475ReferencesJulio J. Castillo.
2011.
A WordNet-based semantic ap-proach to textual entailment and cross-lingual textualentailment.
International Journal of Machine Learningand Cybernetics, 2(3):177?189.Ido Dagan, Oren Glickman, and Bernardo Magnini.
2006.The PASCAL recognising textual entailment chal-lenge.
In Machine Learning Challenges.
EvaluatingPredictive Uncertainty, Visual Object Classification,and Recognising Tectual Entailment, volume 3944 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 177?190.Springer Berlin / Heidelberg.Mikel Forcada, Mireia Ginest?
?-Rosell, Jacob Nordfalk,Jim O?Regan, Sergio Ortiz-Rojas, Juan Pe?rez-Ortiz,Felipe Sa?nchez-Mart?
?nez, Gema Ram?
?rez-Sa?nchez, andFrancis Tyers.
2011.
Apertium: a free/open-sourceplatform for rule-based machine translation.
MachineTranslation, 25(2):127?144.Mark Hall, Eibe Frank, Geoffrey Holmes, BernhardPfahringer, Peter Reutemann, and Ian H. Witten.
2009.The WEKA data mining software: an update.
SIGKDDExplorations Newsletter, 11(1):10?18.Sanda Harabagiu and Andrew Hickl.
2006.
Methodsfor using textual entailment in open-domain questionanswering.
In Proceedings of the 21st InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics and the 44thAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 905?912, Sydney, Australia.Philipp Koehn, Franz J. Och, and Daniel Marcu.
2003.Statistical phrase-based translation.
In Proceedings ofthe 2003 Conference of the North American Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics onHuman Language Technology, pages 48?54, Edmonton,Canada.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran, RichardZens, Chris Dyer, Ondr?ej Bojar, Alexandra Constantin,and Evan Herbst.
2007.
Moses: open source toolkitfor statistical machine translation.
In Proceedings ofthe 45th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 177?180,Prague, Czech Republic.Yashar Mehdad, Matteo Negri, and Marcello Federico.2010.
Towards cross-lingual textual entailment.
InHuman Language Technologies: The 11th Annual Con-ference of the North American Chapter of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics, pages 321?324,Los Angeles, USA.Yashar Mehdad, Matteo Negri, and Marcello Federico.2011.
Using bilingual parallel corpora for cross-lingualtextual entailment.
In Proceedings of the 49th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics: Human Language Technologies, pages 1336?1345,Portland, Oregon.George A. Miller.
1995.
WordNet: a lexical database forenglish.
Communications of the ACM, 38(11):39?41.Shachar Mirkin, Lucia Specia, Nicola Cancedda, IdoDagan, Marc Dymetman, and Idan Szpektor.
2009.Source-language entailment modeling for translatingunknown terms.
In Proceedings of the Joint Confer-ence of the 47th Annual Meeting of the ACL and the 4thInternational Joint Conference on Natural LanguageProcessing of the Asian Federation of Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 791?799, Suntec, Singapore.Matteo Negri, Luisa Bentivogli, Yashar Mehdad, DaniloGiampiccolo, and Alessandro Marchetti.
2011.
Di-vide and conquer: crowdsourcing the creation of cross-lingual textual entailment corpora.
In Proceedings ofthe Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 670?679, Edinburgh, UnitedKingdom.Matteo Negri, Alessandro Marchetti, Yashar Mehdad,Luisa Bentivogli, and D. Giampiccolo.
2012.
Semeval-2012 Task 8: Cross-lingual Textual Entailment for Con-tent Synchronization.
In Proceedings of the 6th Inter-national Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval2012).Sebastian Pado?, Michel Galley, Dan Jurafsky, and ChrisManning.
2009.
Robust machine translation evalua-tion with entailment features.
In Proceedings of theJoint Conference of the 47th Annual Meeting of theACL and the 4th International Joint Conference on Nat-ural Language Processing of the Asian Federation ofNatural Language Processing, pages 297?305, Suntec,Singapore.Sergios Theodoridis and Konstantinos Koutroumbas.2009.
Pattern Recognition.
Elsevier, 4th edition.476
