First Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM), pages 90?94,Montre?al, Canada, June 7-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsLexical semantic typologies from bilingual corpora ?
A frameworkSteffen EgerDepartment of Computer Science / Carnegie Mellon University5404 Gates Hillman Complex / Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USAseger@cs.cmu.eduAbstractWe present a framework, based on Sejane andEger (2012), for inducing lexical semantic ty-pologies for groups of languages.
Our frame-work rests on lexical semantic association net-works derived from encoding, via bilingualcorpora, each language in a common referencelanguage, the tertium comparationis, so thatdistances between languages can easily be de-termined.1 IntroductionTypologocial classifications have a long tradition inlinguistics.
For example, typologies based on syn-tactic categories have been proposed e.g.
by Green-berg (1961), leading a.o.
to ?word order?
catego-rizations of natural languages as belonging to SVO,VSO, etc.
types.
Relatedly, genealogical classifica-tion systems based on phonological and morpholog-ical similarities date back at least to the compara-tists of the nineteenth centuries, among them JacobGrimm (1785-1863), Rasmus Rask (1787-1832),and Karl Verner (1846-1896).
Typological investi-gations into (lexical) semantic relations across lan-guages have, in contrast, attracted little attention.Still, some results have been established such asclassifications based upon treatment of animal con-cepts and corresponding meat concepts (see the ex-cellent introduction to lexical typologies by Koch,2001).
As further exceptions, based on computa-tional principles, may be considered Mehler et al(2011), who analyze conceptual networks derivedfrom the Wikipedia topic classification systems fordifferent languages; Gaume et al (2008), who pro-pose (but do not realize, to the best of our knowl-edge) to compare distances between selected wordpairs such as meat/animal, child/fruit, door/mouthacross language-specific monolingual dictionaries inorder to categorize the associated languages and,partly, Cooper (2008), who computes semantic dis-tances between languages based on the curvature oftranslation histograms in bilingual dictionaries.Recently, Sejane and Eger (2012) have outlined anovel approach to establishing semantic typologiesbased upon the language-specific polysemy relationof lexical units which entails language-dependent?lexical semantic association networks?.
To illus-trate, French b?uf has two meanings, which we maygloss as ?cow?
and ?beef?
in English.
Similarly,French langue and Spanish lingua mean both ?lan-guage?
and ?tongue?, whereas Chinese hua` meansboth ?language?
and ?picture?.
Sejane and Eger?s(2012) key idea is then that this language-specificpolysemy can be made observable via the trans-lation relation implied e.g.
by a bilingual dictio-nary.
For instance, using a Chinese-English dictio-nary, one might be able to uncover the polysemyof hua` by assessing its two English translations, asgiven above.
More formally, one might create a link(in a network) between two English words if theyhave a common translation in Chinese (cf.
Egerand Sejane, 2010); doing the same with a Spanish-English and French-English dictionary, one wouldobtain three different lexical semantic associationnetworks, all encoded in the English language, thetertium comparationis or reference language in thiscase.
In the English networks based upon Spanish90and French ?
Sejane and Eger (2012) call these net-works the Spanish and French versions of English,respectively ?
?language?
and ?tongue?
would havea link, whereas in the Chinese version of English,?language?
and ?picture?
would have a link (see alsoFigure 1 where we illustrate this idea for English andLatin versions of German).
Then, comparing thesenetworks across languages may allow establishing atypology of lexical semantic associations.In the current paper, we deliberate on Sejane andEger?s (2012) idea, suggesting ways to adequatelyformalize their approach (Section 2) and proposedata sources suitable for their framework (Section3).
Moreover, in Section 4 we shortly discuss hownetwork versions of a given reference language canbe formally contrasted and suggest solutions for thetertium comparationis problem.
In Section 5, weconclude.2 Formal approach to lexical semanticassociation networksWe propose the following mathematical frameworkfor representing lexical semantic association net-works.
Given n languages L1, .
.
.
, Ln, n ?2, plus a selected reference language R distinctfrom L1, .
.
.
, Ln, and bilingual translation operatorsT1, .
.
.
, Tn, where Ti, i = 1, .
.
.
, n, maps (or, trans-lates) from language Li to the reference languageR,create network graphsGi = (Vi, Ei)withVi = W [R],andEi = {(u, v) |u, v ?
Vi, uTix, xTivfor some x ?W [Li]},where by W [L] we denote the words of language Land by aTib we denote that a translates into b underTi; moreover, we assume Ti to be symmetric suchthat the Gi?s may be considered undirected graphs.To generalize this a bit, we may consider weightedgraphs where for network i, i = 1, .
.
.
, n, Vi is asabove, Ei = {(u, v) |u, v ?
Vi}, and each edge(u, v) ?
Ei has weight (being a function of)di(u, v) = |{x |uTix, xTiv}|.
(1)Then, if u and v have no common translation x,di(u, v) = 0 and generally di(u, v) counts the num-ber of common translations x between u and v, en-tailing a generalization of the setting above, whichmay allow for a more fine-grained analysis and maybe of importance for example for outlining seman-tic many-to-one relationships between a languageLiand the reference language R.3 Possible data sourcesSejane and Eger (2012) conduct a preliminary studyof their approach on the open-source bilingual dic-tionaries dicts.info (http://www.dicts.info/uddl.php).The disadvantage with using bilingual dictionaries isof course that they are scarcely available (and muchless freely available); moreover, for the above de-scribed semantic association networks, it may be ofcrucial importance to have comparable data sources;e.g.
using a general-purpose dictionary in one caseand a technical dictionary in the other, or using dic-tionaries of vastly different sizes may severely affectthe quality of results.1We more generally propose to use bilingual cor-pora for the problem of inducing semantic asso-ciation networks, where we particularly have e.g.sentence-aligned corpora like the Europarl corpus(Koehn, 2005) in mind (see also the study of Ramaand Borin (2011) on cognates, with Europarl as thedata basis).
Then, translation relations Ti may beinduced from these corpora by applying a statisti-cal machine translation approach such as the Mosestoolkit (Koehn et al, 2007).
The translation relationsmay thus be probabilistic instead of binary, whichmay either be resolved via thresholding or by modi-fying Equation (1) as indi(u, v) =?x?W [Li]Pr[uTix] + Pr[xTiv]2ordi(u, v) =?x?W [Li]Pr[uTix] ?
Pr[xTiv],both of which have (1) as special cases.1As another aspect, Sejane and Eger (2012) concluded thatthe sizes and partly the qualities of their bilingual dictionarieswere, throughout, not fully adequate for their intentions.91Figure 1: Bilingual dictionaries German-English and German-Latin and induced lexical semantic association net-works, English and Latin versions of German.
Note the similarities and differences; Mann ?man?
and Mensch ?human?have a link in both versions but there is a path between Mann and Frau ?woman?
only in the English version of Ger-man, whereas there exists e.g.
a path between Mann and Held ?hero?
only in the Latin version.
Reprinted from Sejaneand Eger (2012).Using the Europarl corpus would both addressthe problem of size and comparability raised above;moreover, corpora may better reflect actual languageuse than dictionaries, which oftentimes documentidiosyncractic, normative or assumed language con-ditions.
A problem with the Europarl corpus is that itcovers just a very small (and selected) subset of theworld?s languages, whereas it might be of particu-lar interest for (semantic) typology to contrast large,heterogeneous classes of languages.4 Network distance measures and theproblem of tertium comparationisIn order to be able to induce a semantic typologyfrom the above described lexical semantic associa-tion networks, a distance metric ?
on network graphsis required,2 that is, a function ?
that maps networkgraphs Gi, Gj , 1 ?
i, j ?
n, to numbers?ij = ?
(Gi, Gj) ?
R.Such distance measures may be derived from gen-eral network statistics such as the number ofedges, the diameters of the networks, network den-sity, graph entropy via information functionals (cf.Dehmer, 2008) or clustering coefficients (cf.
Wattsand Strogatz, 1998).
We believe, however, that suchabstract measures can be useful only for a prelimi-nary examination of the data.
A more in-depth anal-ysis should be based on comparing individual net-2In this context, we identify languages with their lexical se-mantic association networks.work vertices in two versions of the reference lan-guage.
For example, we could ask about the lexi-cal semantic difference between French and Chinesewith respect to the lexical unit ?language?.
One wayof realizing such an analysis would be by makinguse of shortest distances between network vertices.To be more precise, let Gi and Gj be two lexical se-mantic network versions of a reference language R.Assume thatGi andGj have the same number,N , ofvertices, with the same labels (i.e.
names of verticessuch as ?language?).
Let uk, 1 ?
k ?
N , be the k-thvertex in both graphs, with identical label across thetwo graphs.
Moreover, let si(uk) and sj(uk) be vec-tors whose l-th component, 1 ?
l ?
N , is given asthe shortest distance between vertex uk and vertexul in graphs Gi and Gj , respectively,(si(uk))l = shortest distance betweenuk and ul in Gi,and analogously for sj(uk).
We could then definethe difference between network version Gi and Gjwith respect to vertex uk as e.g.
the Euclidean dis-tance between these two vectors,?si(uk)?
sj(uk)?
.However, as useful as shortest distances may be,they do not seem to fully capture the topologicalstructure of a network.
For example, they do notindicate whether there are many or few (short) pathsbetween two vertices, etc.
(see also the discussion92in Gaume et al, 2008).
Therefore, we propose aPage-rank like (see Brin and Page, 1998; Gaume andMathieu, 2012) procedure to compare network ver-tices of networks Gi and Gj .
To this end, let pi(uk),a vector of dimension N , denote the probability dis-tribution that if, starting from vertex uk, one mayreach any of the other vertices of network Gi (andanalogously for network Gj), under the followingrules.
In each step, starting at vertex uk, with prob-ability ?, a ?random surfer?
on the network Gi maypass from its current vertex v to any of v?s neighborswith equal probability (if there are no neighbors, thesurfer passes to a random vertex), and with probabil-ity (1 ?
?)
the surfer ?teleports?
to an arbitrary ver-tex.
The probability distribution pi(uk), for ?
closeto 1, may then neatly represent topological proper-ties of network Gi, from the ?perspective?
of vertexuk.
On this basis, we can, as above, determine thedifference between network versionsGi andGj withrespect to vertex uk as?uk(Gi, Gj) = ?pi(uk)?
pj(uk)?
.
(2)Finally, we define the (global) distance between GiandGj as the average over all such (local) distances,?ij =1NN?k=1?uk(Gi, Gj).
(3)If, as mentioned above, we have weighted graphs,we slightly modify the random surfer?s behavior.
In-stead of passing with uniform probability from ver-tex v to a neighbor vertex w of v, the surfer passesto w with probability proportional to the weight be-tween v and w; the larger the weight the higher isthe probability that the surfer ends up at w.Then, once distance metric values ?ij are given,an n ?
n distance matrix D may be defined whoseentry (i, j) is precisely ?ij ,Dij = ?ij .On D, standard e.g.
hierarchical clustering algo-rithms may be applied in order to deduce a lexicalsemantic typology.Finally, we address the tertium comparationisproblem: Given a set of languages, which oneshould be chosen as reference language?
It might betempting to believe that the choice of the referencelanguage should not matter much for the resultinglexical semantic association networks, but the refer-ence language may certainly have some impact.
Forexample, if English is the reference language, theChinese version of English might not only have alink between ?language?
and ?picture?
but also be-tween ?language?
and ?tongue?, because of the pol-ysemy of ?tongue?
in English.
If, in contrast, Ger-man was the reference language, the Chinese versionof German should not have a link between Zunge?tongue?
and Sprache ?language?
because Zunge, inGerman, does not mean ?language?
(any more).Thus, to avoid misspecifications based on a par-ticular choice of reference language, we propose thefollowing.
Let L1, .
.
.
, Ln, Ln+1, n ?
2, be (n+ 1)languages for which bilingual translation operatorsTA,B exist for any two languages A, B from the(n + 1) languages.
Then let the distance betweenlanguages i and j, 1 ?
i, j ?
n+ 1, be defined as?ij =1n?
1?R?L\{Li,Lj}?
(GRi , GRj ),where by GRi we denote the Li version ofR, and by L we denote the set of languages{L1, .
.
.
, Ln, Ln+1}; in other words, we specify thedistance between languages i and j as the aver-age distance over all possible reference languages,which excludes languages i and j themselves.
Asabove, ?ij induces a distance matrix, with whichclustering can be performed.5 ConclusionWe have presented a framework for inducing lexicalsemantic typologies based on the idea of Sejane andEger (2012) to represent lexical semantic spaces ofdifferent languages in a common reference languagein order to be able to contrast them.
We have ex-tended Sejane and Eger?s (2012) approach by giv-ing it a solid mathematical foundation, by suggest-ing more suitable data bases on which to implementtheir study, and by outlining adequate network dis-tance metrics on this data.
Moreover, we have ad-dressed the tertium comparationis problem of thechoice of the reference language.
In follow-up work,we intend to bring the idea to the data, from whichwe expect very interesting cross-lingual lexical se-mantic insights.93ReferencesS.
Brin, and L. Page.
1998.
The Anatomy of a Large-Scale Hypertextual Web Search Engine.
In SeventhInternational World-Wide Web Conference (WWW1998).M.C.
Cooper.
2008.
Measuring the Semantic Distancebetween Languages from a Statistical Analysis ofBilingual Dictionaries.
Journal of Quantitative Lin-guistics, 15 (1): 1?33.M.
Dehmer.
2008.
Information processing in complexnetworks: Graph entropy and information functionals.Applied Mathematics and Computation 201: 82?94.S.
Eger, and I. Sejane.
2010.
Computing semantic sim-ilarity from bilingual dictionaries.
In Proceedings ofthe 10th International Conference on statistical analy-sis of textual data (JADT 2010): 1217?1225.B.
Gaume, K. Duvignau, and M. Vanhove.
2008.
Seman-tic associations and confluences in paradigmatic net-works.
In From Polysemy to Semantic Change: To-wards a typology of lexical semantic associations,Amsterdam: John Benjamins: 233?267.B.
Gaume, and F. Mathieu.
2012.
PageRank InducedTopology for Real-World Networks.
To appear.J.
H. Greenberg.
1961.
Some universals of grammar withparticular reference to the order of meaningful ele-ments.
In Universals of language, Joseph H. Green-berg (ed.
), Cambridge, MA: MIT Press: 73?113.P.
Koch.
2001.
Lexical typology from a cognitive andlinguistic point of view.
In Language Typology andLanguage Universals, Martin Haspelmath, EkkehardKnig, Wulf Oesterreicher, and Wolfgang Raible (eds.
),Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter: 1142?1178.P.
Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A Parallel Corpus for Statisti-cal Machine Translation.
In MT Summit 2005.P.
Koehn, H. Hoang, A. Birch, C. Callison-Burch, M.Federico, N. Bertoldi, B. Cowan, W. Shen, C. Moran,R.
Zens, C. Dyer, O. Bojar, A. Constantin, and E.Herbst.
2007.
Moses: Open Source Toolkit for Sta-tistical Machine Translation.
In Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL),demonstration session, Prague, Czech Republic, June2007.A.
Mehler, O. Pustylnikov, and N. Diewald.
2011.
Geog-raphy of Social Ontologies: Testing a Variant of theSapir-Whorf Hypothesis in the Context of Wikipedia.Computer Speech and Language, 25: 716?740.T.
Rama, and L. Borin.
2011.
Estimating language rela-tionships from a parallel corpus.
A study of the Eu-roparl corpus.
In NEALT Proceedings Series (NODAL-IDA 2011 Conference Proceedings): 161?167.I.
Sejane, and S. Eger.
2012.
Semantic typologies frombilingual dictionaries.
To appear.D.J.
Watts, S. Strogatz.
1998.
Collective dynamics of?small-world?
networks.
Nature 393 (6684): 440?442.94
