First Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM), pages 161?169,Montre?al, Canada, June 7-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting a Semantic Lexicon of French Adjectives from a LargeLexicographic DictionarySelja Seppa?la?
and Alexis NasrLaboratoire d?Informatique FondamentaleAix Marseille Universite?163, avenue de LuminyF-13288 Marseille Cedex 9alexis.nasr@lif.univ-mrs.frselja.seppala@lif.univ-mrs.frLucie BarqueLexiques Dictionnaires InformatiqueUniversite?
Paris 1399, avenue Jean-Baptiste Cle?mentF-93430 Villetaneuselucie.barque@univ-paris13.frAbstractWe present a rule-based method to automati-cally create a large-coverage semantic lexiconof French adjectives by extracting paradig-matic relations from lexicographic definitions.Formalized adjectival resources are, indeed,scarce for French and they mostly focus onmorphological and syntactic information.
Ourobjective is, therefore, to contribute enrichingthe available set of resources by taking advan-tage of reliable lexicographic data and formal-izing it with the well-established lexical func-tions formalism.
The resulting semantic lexi-con of French adjectives can be used in NLPtasks such as word sense disambiguation ormachine translation.
After presenting relatedwork, we describe the extraction method andthe formalization procedure of the data.
Ourmethod is then quantitatively and qualitativelyevaluated.
We discuss the results of the evalu-ation and conclude on some perspectives.1 IntroductionFormalized semantic resources are highly valuablein areas such as NLP, linguistic analysis or lan-guage acquisition.
However, creating such resourcesfrom scratch is time-consuming and generally yieldslimited-size lexicons.
Existing lexicographic dictio-naries do have a large coverage and present a reli-able content.
They lack nevertheless the sufficientformalization.
In this paper, we present a rule-basedmethod to automatically create a large-coverage se-mantic lexicon of French adjectives by extractingparadigmatic relations from lexicographic defini-tions using lexico-syntactic patterns.
Formalized ad-jectival resources are, indeed, scarce for French andthey mostly focus on morphological and syntacticinformation.
Our goal is, therefore, to contribute en-riching the available set of resources by taking ad-vantage of reliable lexicographic data and formal-izing it with the well-established lexical functionsformalism of the Meaning-Text theory (Mel?c?uk,1996).
The resulting semantic lexicon of Frenchadjectives can be used in NLP tasks such as wordsense disambiguation or machine translation1.
Insection 2, we present related work.
In section 3, weexpose the method used to build the lexicon, i.e.
theextraction method and the formalization procedureof the data, and outline the main results.
Finally, insection 4, we present a quantitative evaluation of ourmethod and a qualitative evaluation of our data, anddiscuss their results.
We conclude on some perspec-tives for future work.2 Related WorkIt is well established that there are different typesof adjectives distinguished by properties, such asgradation and markedness, and by their seman-tic and syntactic behaviors (antonymy, selectionalpreferences) (Fellbaum et al, 1993; Raskin andNirenburg, 1996).
WordNet, for example, distin-guishes different types of adjectives according totheir semantic and syntactic behaviors: descriptive,reference-modifying, color and relational adjectives(Fellbaum et al, 1993).
However, it mainly accountsfor the first and the last types of adjectives.
Descrip-1For other possible NLP applications of lexicons encodedwith the lexical function formalism, see Schwab and Lafour-cade (2007).161tive adjectives are organized in adjectival synsetsthat are mostly related through antonymy (heavy?light); synsets of relational adjectives are linked to arelated noun by a pointer (fraternal?brother).
Fell-baum et al (1993:36) acknowledge the existence ofmore diverse relations to nominal synsets, but, to ourknowledge, these are not accounted for in WordNet.This limitation is also present in the open accessFrench version of the Princeton WordNet, WOLF(Sagot and Fis?er, 2012).
This limitation has ledprojects extending WordNet to other languages, likeEuroWordNet, ItalWordNet or WordNet.PT, to adda few more relations to account for this diversity(Alonge et al, 2000; Marrafa and Mendes, 2006;Vossen, 2002).
The number of new relations is how-ever limited.
As can be seen, WordNet-type ap-proaches focus on relating adjectival synsets usinga few semantic relations, mostly antonymy and plainrelated to relations.Our goal is to achieve a finer, and thus richer, se-mantic characterization of the relations holding be-tween French adjectives and other words from allsyntactic categories using the formalism of lexicalfunctions.
We assume that the type of the adjective isreflected in the structure of its lexicographic defini-tion.
Thus, to extract semantically relevant informa-tion from adjectival definitions, we propose to createdifferent types of rules accounting for this diversityof defining structures.Formalized French lexicons contain rather limitedadjectival data.
One can cite the morphological lex-icon that links French denominal adjectives to thenouns they are derived from (Strnadova` and Sagot,2011) or the syntactic characterization of French ad-jectives based on an automatic extraction of subcat-egorization frames proposed in Kups?c?
(2008).
Ourmethod is meant to complete this set of resourceswith an adjectival lexicon that is not limited to cer-tain types of adjectives (like descriptive or denom-inal) nor to morphologically related adjectives, andwhich provides semantic information.3 Method and ResultsThe method we use to extract formalized semanticinformation from unformalized lexicographic defi-nitions follows two steps : extracting relations be-tween defined adjectives and elements of their def-initions using lexico-syntactic rules (section 3.1)and mapping these relations to regular relations thatcan be expressed in terms of lexical functions (sec-tion 3.2).3.1 Extracting Paradigmatic Relations fromLexicographic DefinitionsThe dictionary used in this project is the Tre?sor de lalangue franc?aise informatise?2 (TLFi).
It is the elec-tronic version of a 100,000 word lexicographic dic-tionary of 19th and 20th century French, the Tre?sorde la langue franc?aise (Dendien and Pierrel, 2003).The TLFi contains a total of 13,513 adjectivalentries, among which 6,425 entries correspond tomere adjectives and 7,088 to adjectives and otherparts of speech (generally nouns)3.
Each of theseentries includes one or more definitions, which addup to 44,410 definitions, among which 32,475 areestimated to be adjectival.
This approximation isobtained after filtering out 11,935 non-adjectivaldefinitions from the mixed entries using a lexico-syntactic definition parsing program aimed at detect-ing nominal definitions.
The remaining definitionsare mostly adjectival, with exceptions due to morecomplex definition structures that are not accountedfor by the filtering method.
Table 1 sums up the mainfigures.Adjectival entries 6,425Not only adjectival entries 7,088Estimated adjectival definitions 32,475Table 1: Adjectives in the TLFiTo extract semantically relevant information fromadjectival definitions, we use a lexico-syntacticadjectival definition parsing program which useslexico-syntactic rules that are linearly matched tosyntactically annotated adjectival definitions4.
Theextraction method consists of the following steps:1.
First, tagging and lemmatizing the definition so2TLFi, http://atilf.atilf.fr/tlf.htm.3It is difficult to determine exactly how many adjectives aredefined in the TLFi since the dictionary often joins togetherwords that can be both used as a noun or an adjective (for ex-ample JEUNE-young).4The definitions are syntactically annotated with the Macaontool suite (Nasr et al, 2010) that was adapted to the specialsublanguage of lexicographic definitions.162that each word is related to a part of speech tag(POS).
(1) RETENU = Qui fait preuve de mode?ration.
(restrained = Who shows moderation.
)Qui/prorel fait/v preuve/nc de/prepmode?ration/nc ./poncts2.
Second, running the adjectival definition pars-ing program to obtain a triplet composed of thedefined adjective (<adj>), a relation (<rel>)and an argument (<arg>), i.e.
a word or groupof words that is linked by the extracted relationto the defined adjective.
(2) <adj>retenu</adj><rel>fait preuve de</rel><arg>mode?ration</arg>A lexico-syntactic rule extracts from a definitionthe <rel> and <arg> elements.
As can be seenin figure 1, each lexico-syntactic rule is composedof a left-hand side (LHS) containing either a lexi-cal unit (lex), such as qui, or a POS tag (cat) likev (verb), both of which can be optional (op="y"),and a right-hand side (RHS) specifying which ele-ments of the LHS are to be extracted as semanti-cally relevant: a relation (REL) and/or an argument(ARG)5.In figure 1, the denominal rule 2.2 identifiesadjectival definitions corresponding to the lexico-syntactic pattern stated by the LHS of the rule, suchas that of the adjective RETENU in example 2 above6.The LHS contains nine elements, where the first twocorrespond to lexical items and the remaining onesto POS tags.
Five elements are marked as optional,since a definition may for example start by the for-mula Qui est (Which/Who is) followed by some verb,or it may directly begin with a verb.
This verb has tobe followed by a noun (nc) and a preposition (prep),which may be followed by a determinant and/or anadjective, but which has to be followed by a noun,etc.
The RHS of the rule states that the relation tobe extracted corresponds to elements 3, 4 and 5 of5For definitions by synonymy, only the argument is speci-fied, the default semantic relation being synonymy.6Note that the adjective RETENU (retained) is, morpholog-ically speaking, not a denominal.
However, the rule extractsa noun to which this adjective is related in its definition, i.e.MODE?RATION (moderation).
It is, therefore, the rule that is con-sidered denominal.<regle num="2.2" rel="denominal"><lhs><elt lex="qui" op="y" /><elt lex="est" op="y" /><elt cat="v" /><elt cat="nc" /><elt cat="prep" /><elt cat="det" op="y" /><elt cat="adj" op="y" /><elt cat="nc" /><elt cat="adj" op="y" /></lhs><rhs><rel><elt num="3" /><elt num="4" /><elt num="5" /></rel><arg><elt num="7" /><elt num="8" /><elt num="9" /></arg></rhs></regle>Figure 1: Example of Lexico-Syntactic Rulethe LHS, and that the argument is composed of ele-ments 7, 8 and 97.The relation extraction program reads the dictio-nary definition from the beginning of the sentencechecking whether it contains the elements specifiedin the LHS of the rule.
In case the rule matchesthe lexico-syntactic elements composing the defini-tion, it outputs the lexical elements of the defini-tion corresponding to the lexical or syntactic infor-mation specified in the RHS of the rule in the formREL(ARG)=ADJ, where ADJ stands for the adjec-tive of the dictionary entry.
For instance, applyingthe rule from figure 1 to the definition of the adjec-tive RETENU returns the relation fait preuve de andthe argument mode?ration (example 2).A total of 109 lexico-syntactic rules have been de-signed.
These rules cover 76.1 % of the adjectivaldefinitions (24,716/32,475 definitions).
The rulescan broadly be grouped into four categories corre-sponding to different adjectival definition structures.This categorization is done according to the type ofdefining information matched by the rules:7In the RHS, the number assigned as a value to the numattribute corresponds to the line number of the elt in the LHS.1631.
The adjective is defined by one or more syn-onyms.?
REL = synonymy; ARG = adjective(3) DIAGONAL = Transversal, oblique.
(diago-nal = Transversal, oblique.)?
syn(transversal) = DIAGO-NAL; syn(oblique) = DIAGONAL(syn(transversal) = diagonal; syn(oblique)= diagonal)2.
The adjective is defined by another adjectivemodified by an adverb.?
REL = adverb; ARG = adjective(4) KILOME?TRIQUE = Qui est tre`s long, quin?en finit pas.
(kilometric = Which is verylong, never-ending.)?
tre`s(long) = KILOME?TRIQUE(very(long) = kilometric)3.
The adjective is defined by a relation to a prop-erty of the thing denoted by the modified noun.The argument of this complex REL consists ofa noun phrase (NP), a verbal phrase (VP) or anadjective (ADJ).?
REL = relation + property; ARG =NP/VP/ADJ(5) AGRE?GATIF = Qui a la faculte?
d?agre?ger.
(aggregative = Which has the power to ag-gregate.)?
a la faculte?
de(agre?ger) = AGRE?GATIF(has power to(aggregate) = aggregative)VERSICOLORE = Dont la couleur estchangeante.
(versicolor = Which color ischanging.)?
dont la couleur est(changeante) = VER-SICOLORE (which color is(changing) =versicolor)4.
The adjective is defined by a relation having asargument a noun phrase, a verbal phrase or anadjective.?
REL = relation; ARG = NP/VP/ADJ(6) ACADE?MIQUE = Qui manque d?originalite?,de force; conventionnel.
(academic =Which lacks originality, strength; conven-tional.)?
manque de(originalite?)
=ACADE?MIQUE (lacks(originality) =academic)INANALYSABLE = Qui ne peut e?tre analyse?,qui ne peut e?tre de?compose?
en ses e?le?mentsdistinctifs.
(unanalyzable = Which cannotbe analyzed, which cannot be decompozedin its distinctive elements.)?
ne peut e?tre(analyse?)
= IN-ANALYSABLE (cannot be(analyzed) =unanalyzable)The rules extract a total of 5,284 different rela-tion types in the form (REL, ARG), where REL isa lexicalized expression and ARG a phrasal type, asillustrated in example (7).
(7)(capable de, VPinf) (capable of, VPinf )(constitue?
de, NP) (constituted by, NP)(couvert de, NP) (covered with, NP)(fonde?
sur, NP) (founded on, NP)(peu, ADJ) (not very, ADJ)(propre a`, NP) (particular to, NP)(propre a`, VPinf) (capable of, VPinf )(relatif a`, NP) (relating to, NP)One can note that the lexicalized relation is some-times followed by different phrasal types, as can beseen for propre a` in example (7).
In those cases,each (REL, ARG) pair is considered as a distinct re-lation type.3.2 Formalizing Paradigmatic Relations withLexical FunctionsLexical functions (LF) are a formal tool designedto describe all types of genuine lexical relations(paradigmatic and syntactic ones) between lexicalunits of any language (Mel?c?uk, 1996).
Some of thestandard lexical functions that often return adjectivalvalues are briefly presented below:?
A0 ?
This paradigmatic lexical function returns theadjective that semantically corresponds to the argu-ment.
E.g.
A0(CHAT) = FE?LIN (A0(cat) = feline);A0(CRIME) = CRIMINEL (A0(crime) = criminal)?
A1/A2 ?
These paradigmatic lexical functions re-turn the adjectives that typically characterize, re-spectively, the first and second argument of thepredicate given as argument to the functions.
Thispredicate can be nominal, adjectival or verbal.For example, given that the nominal predicateDE?CEPTION (disappointment) has two arguments,the person that is disappointed and the reason of thedisappointment, function A1 applied to DE?CEPTIONreturns the adjective DE?C?U (disappointed), whilefunction A2 returns DE?CEVANT (disappointing).E.g.
A1(DE?CEPTION) = DE?C?U (A2(disappointment)= disappointed); A2(DE?CEPTION) = DE?CEVANT(A2(disappointment) = disappointing)164?
Able1/Able2 ?
Closely related to A1 and A2, thesefunctions return the adjective that means that thefirst (Able1) or the second (Able2) argument of thepredicate P ?might P or is likely to P?
(whereasA1 just means ?arg1 that P?
and A2 ?arg2 thatis P-ed?).
E.g.
Able1(CRAINDRE) = PEUREUX(Able1(to fear) = coward); Able2(CRAINDRE) =EFFRAYANT (Able2(to fear) = frightening)?
Magn ?
This function returns an intensificator ofthe predicate.
This intensificator can modify theargument, as in heavy rain (Magn expresses thena syntagmatic relation), or can be another adjec-tive that intensifies the meaning of the argument(Magn expresses then a paradigmatic relation).
E.g.Magn(MAUVAIS) = AFFREUX (Magn(bad) = awful)?
Anti ?
This function returns the argument?santonym(s).
E.g.
Anti(ABSENT) = PRE?SENT(Anti(absent) = present)?
AntiA1 ?
This complex lexical function returnsthe adjective that means that the first argument ofthe predicate P ?is not P (anymore)?.
E.g.
An-tiA1(FAIM) = REPU (AntiA1(hunger) = full)We use this formalism to describe the paradig-matic relations between adjectives and the argu-ments extracted in the previous step.
These rela-tions are formulated in a non-systematic way in theTLFi?s definitions.
Definitions in traditional dictio-naries are written in natural language and, thus, arenot formal enough to be used as such, for example,in NLP tasks.
In order to formalize the lexicon, amapping is done between lexical functions describ-ing paradigmatic relations and the different ways ofexpressing these relations in the TLFi?s definitions(see relation types in example 7), as illustrated in ta-ble 2.This REL-LF mapping covers 67.3 % of the ex-tracted relations (16,646/24,716 extracted relations).Table 3 shows the complete list of lexical functionsused in our lexicon and their distribution: the threelexical functions A0, A1 and QSyn represent around90 % of the relations.4 EvaluationThe method and the data have been evaluated intwo ways.
The method has first been evaluated bycomparing our data to an external resource, the Dic-tionnaire de combinatoire8 (DiCo), a French lex-8The electronic version of the DiCo can be accessed here:http://olst.ling.umontreal.ca/dicouebe/index.php.A0 (qui) est relatif a`, est propre a` + N, se rapportea`, .
.
.
(who/that is related to, particular to .
.
.
)A1 (qui) a la forme de, est atteint de, .
.
.
(who/that has the shape of, suffers from .
.
.
)A2 (qui) produit, provoque, a rec?u, .
.
.
(who/that causes, has obtained .
.
.
)Able1 qui peut, est propre a` + V, susceptible de, .
.
.
(who/that can, is likely to .
.
.
)Able2 que l?on peut, .
.
.
(who/that can be .
.
.
)Anti qui n?est pas, qui s?oppose a`, .
.
.
(that is not, that is opposed to .
.
.
)AntiA1 (qui) n?a pas de, est de?pourvu de, manque de, .
.
.
(who/that has no, is un-sthg, lacks sthg .
.
.
)Table 2: LFs and Their Glosses in the TLFi DefinitionsA0 A1 A2 Able1 Able228.8 % 27.71 % 4.38 % 6.65 % 0.37 %Anti AntiA1 AntiA2 AntiAble1 AntiAble21.64 % 3.49 % 0.21 % 1.24 % 1.04 %QSyn Magn Ver AntiMagn AntiVer21.73 % 1.60 % 0.62 % 0.35 % 0.20 %Table 3: LF?s Distribution in the French Adjectival Lexi-conicographic dictionary describing words with theirparadigmatic and syntagmatic relations expressed inthe LF formalism.
In this first evaluation, we de-termine the performance of the method by quan-tifying the number of reference elements from theDiCo that can be extracted from the TLFi with ourrules (section 4.1).
Since relations involving adjec-tives are scarce in the DiCo, our data has then beenqualitatively evaluated by an expert familiar with theformalism of lexical functions9 (section 4.2).
Theexpert evaluates the relevance of the argument andthe adequacy of the proposed lexical function to de-scribe the relation between the defined adjective andthe argument.4.1 Comparison With the DiCo DataThe first evaluation procedure is meant to measurethe performance of the extraction program againstan existing resource.
The reference is constitutedby selecting 240 triplets in the form LF(ARG)=ADJfrom the DiCo.
An automatic evaluation script com-pares these reference triplets with the hypothesizedtriplets extracted from the TLFi.
The system catego-9The expert is not an author of this paper.165rizes the reference triplets in one of three large cat-egories explained below: ?Impossible?, ?Yes?
and?No?, the latter ones indicating whether the methodallows to extract the reference triplets from the TLFior not.
In the ?No?
cases, the evaluation systemsubcategorizes the reference triplet according to apossible explanation of the failure of the extractionmethod.1.
IMPOSSIBLE (42.9 %, 103/240 triplets)Cases where the reference triplets cannot beused as an evaluation reference because eitherthe adjective of the reference is absent fromthe TLFi dictionary (5 %, 12/240 triplets, ex-ample 8) or the reference argument is absentfrom the definition(s) of the corresponding ad-jective in the TLFi (37.9 %, 91/240 triplets, ex-ample 9).
(8) DiCo-referenceQSyn(humain) = philanthrope(QSyn(human) = philanthropic)TLFi-hypothesis?(?)
= ?The adjective philanthrope (philanthropic)does not have an entry in the TLFi.
(9) DiCo-referenceA1(richesse) = riche(A1(wealth) = rich)TLFi-hypothesisA1Perf(fortune) = riche(A1Perf(fortune) = rich)In this example, the argument richesse(wealth) does not exist in any of the 15 def-initions of riche (rich) in the TLFi.2.
YES (20.4 %, 49/240 triplets)(a) Total matches: these cases correspond tothe intersection of the two resources, i.e.cases where the triplets are identical onboth sides (16.3 %, 39/240 triplets).
(10) DiCo-referenceA1(faute) = fautifTLFi-hypothesisA1(faute) = fautif(A1(fault) = guilty)(b) Partial matches: cases where the adjec-tives and LFs are identical on both sidesand where the reference argument is in-cluded in the hypothesis argument (4.2 %,10/240 triplets).
(11) DiCo-referenceA1(de?faite) = vaincu(A1(defeat) = vanquished)TLFi-hypothesisA1(de?faite militaire) = vaincu(A1(military defeat) = vanquished)3.
NO (36.7 %, 88/240 triplets) Four types ofcases can be distinguished:(a) Cases where the reference adjective is inthe TLFi but absent from the set of hy-pothesis adjectives.
These cases can beexplained by the fact that the extractionrules did not match a definition in theTLFi or by the fact that no LF has beenmapped to the lexical relation that was ex-tracted from the TLFi definitions (13.8 %,33/240 triplets).
(12) DiCo-referenceA0(lait) = lactique(A0(milk) = lactic)TLFi-hypothesis?(?)
= ?
(b) Cases where the adjective and the argu-ment of the reference and of the hypoth-esis are identical or where the argumentsmatch partially, but the LFs are differ-ent (11.3 %, 27/240 triplets, example 13).This divergence might indicate an erro-neous mapping between the extracted lex-icalized relation and the LF.
It could alsobe explained by the possibility of describ-ing the same pair of ADJ-ARG with twodifferent LFs.
(13) DiCo-referenceAble1(haine) = haineuxTLFi-hypothesisA1(haine) = haineux(A1(hate) = hateful)(c) Cases where the extraction rule outputsan ill-formed hypothesis argument result-ing from some problem in the extractionrule (example 14), or where the hypoth-esis triplet is not erroneous as such butcorresponds to a new triplet-variant for aparticular adjective (example 15) (11.7 %,28/240 triplets).
(14) DiCo-reference A0(sucre) = sucrier(A0(sugar) = sugar (nominal adjec-tive))166TLFi-hypothesisA0(production) = sucrier(A0(production) = sugar)TLFi-definitionSUCRIER = Qui est relatif a` laproduction, a` la fabrication du sucre.
(sugar (adj.)
= Related to the produc-tion, the manufacture of sugar.
)In example 14, the TLFi definition for su-crier contains the reference argument su-cre, but the extraction rule did not matchthe right string, resulting in an ill-formedhypothesis argument.
(15) DiCo-reference A1(enthousiasme) =enthousiaste(A1(enthusiasm) = enthusiastic)TLFi-hypothesisA1(admiration passionne?e) = enthou-siaste(A1(passionate admiration) = enthu-siastic)In example 15, the hypothesis argumentextracted by the rule is well-formed butdoes not correspond to the reference argu-ment.
The hypothesis triplet can thus beconsidered as a new variant for the adjec-tive enthousiaste (enthusiastic).The most significant results of the first evalua-tion are synthesized in table 4.
Note that the ref-erence does not cover every relation type that hasbeen taken into account in our lexicon: among the15 relation types listed in table 3 above, only ten arepresent in the DiCo resource and six illustrated intable 4.Eval.
% A1 A0 QSyn Able2 A2 Able1Imp.
42.9 33 10 31 7 12 6Yes 20.4 18 24 0 1 2 2No 36.7 29 16 10 14 6 8Total 100 80 50 41 22 20 16Table 4: Results of the First Evaluation Against the DiCoIf the reference triplets marked ?Impossible?(Imp.)
are excluded, this evaluation shows that thesimple rule-based system proposed to extract seman-tically relevant information from lexicographic def-initions of adjectives covers 35.8 % of the 137 ref-erence triplets that can be used for the evaluation.The analysis of the 88 ?No?
cases shows that mostof the problems are due to insufficient rule-coverageand/or REL-LF mapping (37.5 %, 33/88).
This fig-ure could be reduced by further analyzing the def-initions that are not accounted for by the rules inorder to add more rules, and by mapping more lex-icalized relations to LFs.
The latter solution might,however, prove difficult due to the high frequencyof reduced- or single-occurrence relations extracted.30.7 % (27/88) of the ?No?
cases correspond to adifference in LFs and 31.8 % (28/88) to either ill-formed arguments or to new variant-triplets.
A man-ual check of the 53 hypothesis triplets extracted forthe 28 adjectives of the latter types of cases showsthat in only 12 cases the hypothesis arguments areill-formed (corresponding to 6/28 reference triplets);the rest corresponds to, a priori, acceptable argu-ments, i.e.
to new triplet variants (41/53 cases), al-though a few of them are technically speaking ill-formed.
Therefore, most of the remaining 55.7 %(49/88) ?No?
cases should be qualitatively evalu-ated.These mitigated quantitative results have to be putin perspective.
The first evaluation was meant to testthe performance of the extraction rules against datafrom an existing resource, but, as the figures show,the vast majority of the reference triplets cannot betested.
This quantitative evaluation thus highlightsthe difficulty of using existing resources for thiskind of task (particularly when such resources arescarce).
Moreover, it proves insufficient to measurethe actual performance of the rules.
Two types ofcases are indeed unaccounted for: first, there mightbe many correct hypothesis triplets that are not inthe reference, since there is a huge discrepancy inthe number of triplets between the reference and thehypotheses; second, the hypothesis triplets that don?tmatch to the reference might still be correct.
There-fore, other qualitative evaluation methods have to beused.4.2 Evaluation by an LF ExpertAn expert of the LF formalism has evaluatedthe quality of 150 triplets taken from the 16,646LF(ARG)=ADJ triplets of the lexicon.
First, he eval-uated the argument (0 for a wrong argument, 1 for avalid argument) and, when he judged that the argu-ment was correct, he evaluated the LF: 2 for a good167LF, 1 for a partially satisfying LF and 0 for an in-valid LF.
To sum up, four configurations are possi-ble:?
Case 1 ?
ARG:0E.g.
A2(converti-converted) = AGATISE?-agatizedThe expert considers that the argument is invalid.Indeed, AGATISE?
means converted into an agate butthe program extracted converted as an argument in-stead of agate.?
Case 2 ?
ARG:1 LF:0E.g.
Able1(admiration) = ADMIRABLEThe expert considers that the argument is valid butthe LF is not the right one: the adjective AD-MIRABLE characterizes the second argument of ad-miration and not the first one.
The correct LFshould therefore be Able2.?
Case 3 ?
ARG:1 LF:1A1(trouble-confusion) = AHURI-dazedThe expert considers that the argument is valid butthe LF is incomplete: it is true that the adjectiveAHURI qualifies the first argument of confusion but,more precisely, it conveys information on the man-ifestation of the emotion.
So a more precise LFshould be A1-Manif.?
Case 4 ?
ARG:1 LF:2Magn(agite?-upset) = AFFOLE?-distraughtThe expert considers that the argument and the LFare valid since AFFOLE?
indeed means very upset.Table 5 shows the results of the qualitative evalu-ation of lexical functions.
Cases 3 and 4 are consid-ered to be accurate.Case 1 Case 2 Case 3 Case 4 Total Accuracy11 34 32 73 150 70.5 %Table 5: Evaluation by the ExpertWhen confronted to cases 2 and 3, the expert wasinvited to give the correct LF.
This information willbe processed in order to improve the matching be-tween relations extracted from the TLFi and appro-priate lexical functions.5 ConclusionIn this article, we presented a rule-based methodto automatically extract paradigmatic relations fromlexicographic definitions of adjectives using lexico-syntactic patterns.
This method was completed witha manual mapping of the most frequently extractedlexicalized relations (which are quite heterogenous)to formal lexical functions.
Our goal is to automati-cally create a formalized semantic lexicon of Frenchadjectives that would be complementary to the fewexisting adjectival resources that can be used, forinstance, in NLP tasks.
The adjectival lexicon, inwhich each adjective is related by a lexical func-tion to an NP/VP/adjectival/adverbial argument, wasquantitatively and qualitatively evaluated.The first evaluation, entirely automatic, wasaimed at testing the performance of the method.
Ityielded rather inconclusive results mainly due to thescarcity of the external data available for the task.
Athorough analysis of the different types of ?errors?showed that the number of ?technical problems?can be reduced by refining the extraction rules, byadding more of them, and by completing the map-ping of extracted relations to LFs.
It also highlightedthe necessity to evaluate the method qualitatively.The second evaluation was, thus, aimed at rating theacceptability of the extracted relations.
It was real-ized by an expert of the lexical functions formalismand gave good results, with a precision of around70 %.The automatically created adjectival lexicon pre-sented in this paper can be easily extended bya straightforward inversion of the LF(ARG)=ADJtriplets.
The resulting triplets would either completeexisting lexical entries if integrated into a similarlyencoded nominal and verbal lexicon, or constitutenew entries in the adjectival lexicon, thus extend-ing the syntactic categories represented in the lexi-con.
The LF formalism could also be used to furtherenrich adjectival entries by making automatic infer-ences between adjective-argument pairs and their re-spective synonyms.
E.g.
infer A0(kitty)=feline fromA0(cat)=feline and syn(cat)=kitty.
Finally, mappingLFs with the existing relations in WordNet could al-low to integrate this adjectival lexicon to the FrenchWOLF.AcknowledgementsThis work has been funded by the French AgenceNationale pour la Recherche, through the projectEDYLEX (ANR-08-CORD-009).168ReferencesAlonge A., Bertagna F., Calzolari N., Roventini A., andZampolli A.
2000.
Encoding information on adjec-tives in a lexical-semantic net for computational ap-plications.
In Proceedings of the 1st North Americanchapter of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics conference, NAACL 2000, pages 42?49, Strouds-burg, PA, USA.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Dendien J. and Pierrel J.-M. 2003.
Le Tre?sorde la Langue Franc?aise informatise?
: un exem-ple d?informatisation d?un dictionnaire de langue dere?fe?rence.
Traitement Automatique des Langues.44(2):11-37.Fellbaum C., Gross D. and Miller K. J.
1993.
Adjec-tives in WordNet.
Technical report, Cognitive ScienceLaboratory, Princeton University, 26?39.Kups?c?
A.
2008.
Adjectives in TreeLex.
In M. Klopotek,A.
Przepio?rkowski, S. Wierzchon?
et K.
Trojanowski(eds.
), 16th International Conference Intelligent Infor-mation Systems.
Zakopane, Poland, 16-18 juin, Aca-demic Publishing House EXIT, 287?296.Marrafa, P. and Mendes, S. 2006.
Modeling adjectivesin computational relational lexica.
In Proceedings ofthe COLING/ACL on Main conference poster sessions,COLING-ACL ?06, pages 555?562, Stroudsburg, PA,USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Mel?c?uk I.
1996.
Lexical Functions: A Tool forthe Description of Lexical Relations in the Lexicon.In: L. Wanner (ed.).
Lexical Functions in Lexicog-raphy and Natural Language Processing.
Amster-dam/Philadelphia: Benjamins, 37-102.Nasr A., Be?chet F., Rey J.-F., Favre B. and Le Roux J.2011.
MACAON: An NLP tool suite for processingword lattices.
The 49th Annual Meeting of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.Raskin V. and Nirenburg S. 1996.
Adjectival Modifi-cation in Text Meaning Represention.
Proceedings ofCOLING ?96.Sagot B. and Fis?er D. 2012.
Automatic extension ofWOLF.
6th International Global Wordnet Conference(GWC2012).
Matsue, Japan.Schwab D. and Lafourcade M. 2011.
Modelling, Detec-tion and Exploitation of Lexical Functions for Analy-sis.
ECTI Journal.
Vol.2.
97-108.Strnadova?
J. and Sagot B.
2011.
Construction d?un lex-ique des adjectifs de?nominaux.
Actes de TALN 2011.Vol.2.
69-74.
Montpellier, France.Vossen, P. 2002.
WordNet, EuroWordNet and GlobalWordNet.
Revue franc?aise de linguistique applique?e,7(1):27?38.169
