Second Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM), Volume 2: Seventh International Workshop on SemanticEvaluation (SemEval 2013), pages 617?621, Atlanta, Georgia, June 14-15, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsUC3M: A kernel-based approach to identify and classify DDIs inbiomedical texts.Daniel Sanchez-CisnerosUniversidad Carlos III de MadridAvda.
de la Universidad, 3028911 Legan?s - Madrid - Spaindscisner@inf.uc3m.esAbstractThe domain of DDI identification isconstantly showing a rise of interest fromscientific community since it represents adecrease of time and healthcare cost.
In thispaper we purpose a new approach based onshallow linguistic kernel methods to identifyDDIs in biomedical manuscripts.
Theapproach outlines a first step in the usage ofsemantic information for DDI identification.The system obtained an F1 measure of 0.534.1 IntroductionIn recent years a new discipline appeared in thebiomedical domain for processing pharmacologicalmanuscripts related to drug substances.
Thisdiscipline is the so called Pharmacovigilance, andtakes care of the management and control of Drug-Drug interactions (DDI) among other faculties.
ADDI occurs when one drug influences the effectlevel or activity of another drug.Some events such as BioCreative1 and BioNLP2establish a benchmark of comparison in the field ofnatural language processing applied to biomedicaldomain.
This is the case of Semeval 2013:Extraction of Drug-Drug Interactions fromBioMedical Texts3, where our system has beenevaluated.The field of DDI extraction from biomedicaltext has been faced from different perspectivessuch as rule-based approaches, SVM approachesand kernel-methods approaches, among others.1 http://www.biocreative.org/2 http://2013.bionlp-st.org/3 http://www.cs.york.ac.uk/semeval-2013/task9/Segura-Bedmar et al(2010) proposed anapproach to extract DDI from biomedical textsbased on Shallow Linguistic (SL) Kernel (Giulianoet al 2006) methods obtaining an F1 measure of60,01%.
The system was evaluated over aDrugDDI dataset created in 2010 that contains 579biomedical documents collected from thepharmacological database DrugBank4.
The datasetcontains a total of 3,160 DDIs.Recently, the DDIExtraction2011 task5compared the latest advances in InformationExtraction techniques applied to the DDIidentification.
The event provided a benchmarkforum of 10 different approaches.
The evaluationof the systems was made over the DrugDDIdataset.
We now describe the most relevant works.Thomas et al(2011) developed a system bycombining a preprocessing phase based onCharniak-Lease (Lease, Charniak, 2005) andStanford (Marneffe et al 2006) parsers, with aclassification phase based on SL kernel (Giulianoet al 2006), k-Band Shortest Path Spectrum(kBSPS) kernel (Airola et al 2008), All PathGraphic (APG) kernel (Tikk et al 2010) and case-based reasoning (CBR) (Aamodt, Plaza, 1994)techniques.
The system obtained a F1 measure of65.7%.Chowdhury et al(2011) presented a systemcombining a preprocessing phase based onStanford parser and SPECIALIST (Browne, 2000)lexicon tool, with a classification phase based onFeatured-Based kernel such as SL kernel and Tree-Based kernel such as Dependency tree (DT) kernel(Culotta and Sorensen, 2004) and Phrase StructureTree (PST) kernel (Moschitti, 2004).
The systemachieved an F1 of 63.7%.4 http://www.drugbank.ca/5 http://labda.inf.uc3m.es/DDIExtraction2011/617Bj?rne et al(2011) proposed a differentapproach by combining a preprocessing phasebased on a collection of features and n-grams; witha classification based on support vector machine(SVM) (Vapnik, 1995).
The SVM methodsperform classification tasks by buildinghyperplanes in a multidimensional space thatdivide cases of different classes (binaryclassification).
The system yielded an F1 measureof 62.99%.Kernel methods seem to be the best choice forextracting DDI since they obtained the highestresults.
Thus, we decided to use kernel methods toidentify and classify DDI in our system.Furthermore, we hypothesize that using semanticfeatures of pharmacological substances, canprovide valuable knowledge in the classificationphase.
Therefore, we decide to integrate semanticinformation in the classification process of kernelmethods.In this paper we present a kernel-based approachto identify and classify DDIs in biomedical text byusing SL kernels.
In section 2 we describe thesystem used for identifying DDIs.
Section 3present the results obtained by the system and alittle comparison with other approaches.
In section4 we expose some conclusions obtained and ideasfor future work.2 Description of the systemsThe system (see figure 1) is divided in threephases: (i) in the first phase the system makes apreprocessing of the documents in order to extractgrammatical and semantic information about eachword of the text.
(ii) The second phase makes theclassification of whether a pair of drugs is a DDI ornot by using SL kernel methods.
(iii) In the thirdphase, the system classifies all DDIs into thepurpose type (advice, effect, mechanism, int) usingSL kernel methods.The corpus is processed sentence by sentence,using the identification tag provided for eachsentence.2.1 PreprocessingIn this phase we make a preprocessing of thedocuments to obtain linguistic and semanticinformation about the words and entities containedin the text.
Since linguistic and semanticFigure 1: Architecture of the system.618approaches are based on different types ofinformation, our participation in the task will beseparated in two runs: first run will be based onlinguistic information and second run will be basedon semantic information.Firstly, we process each sentence and obtainlinguistic information about part-of-speech  (PoS)tagging and lemmatization for each word containedin the text.
To do so we use the Stanford parser6 byusing the GATE analyzer7.
The result of this step isa list of words and PoS tags, but entity conceptsare missing.
Therefore, we make a multiwordentities processing to keep the words related to thesame concept together.
For example, the entitybeta-adrenergic receptor blocker is processed byStanford parser as three different annotationsnodes: beta-adrenergic as type JJ; receptor as typeNN; and blocker as type NNS.
Thus we unify thethree words into an only one concept beta-adrenergic_receptor_blocker as type NNP.
Thisinformation corresponds to the linguistic approachof our participation in the task (see figure 2b).On the other hand, we process the text andcollect semantic information about AnatomicalTherapeutic Chemical (ATC) identification foreach drug found in the text.
The ATC code is awidely used classification system provided fromWHO collaborating centre for Drug statisticsmethodology.
The classification divides drugs ingroups at five different levels according to theorgan or system on which they act, and their6 http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/lex-parser.shtml.7 http://gate.ac.uk.therapeutic, pharmacological and chemicalproperties.
The system obtains the ATC code ofthe drugs by searching the drug entities in the ATCIndex resource8.
Then, we associate the ATC coderesults with the drug entity.
This informationcorresponds to the semantic approach of ourparticipation in the task.2.2 Identification of DDIIn this phase the system will predict whether apair of drugs is a DDI or not by the use of Shallowlinguistic Kernel methods.
To do so we use thejSRE tool9.In one hand, the linguistic approach is based onshallow linguistic information such as PoS taggingand lemmatization.
Therefore, the informationintroduced into the SL kernel model consists of:token_identifier, ATC_code, token_lemmatization,POS_tag, entity_type and entity_label; as show infigure 2b.On the other hand, the semantic approach usesthe semantic information of drugs (ATC codes) toincrease the available knowledge in the kernelclassification process.
To do so, we trained a SLkernel model by replacing the token value with theATC code value.
In case of a non-drug token, wereplace the token value with 0.
This way theinformation introduced to the SL kernel modelconsists of: token_identifier, ATC_code,token_lemmatization, POS_tag, entity_type andentity_label; as show in figure 2c.8 http://www.whocc.no/atc_ddd_index/9 http://hlt.fbk.eu/en/technology/jSREFigure 2a: Example of separated multiword entity.Figure 2b: Example of linguistic input token into the SL kernel.Figure 2c: Example of semantic input token into the SL kernel.6192.3 Type classification of DDIIn the third phase, the system makes aclassification of DDIs to determine the type of theinteraction.
To do so, the system face theclassification task as a machine learning task, anduse SL kernel methods.
Hence, we train one SLkernel model for each possible values of DDI type:advice, effect, mechanism, int.
To train the kernelmodels we separate by type each DDI of thetraining dataset.
The result is four groups oftraining dataset, where the correspondent typeclass value are set to 1, and 0 otherwise.
Once wetrained the kernel models, each DDI go throughfour different prediction processes.
The conflictivecases are solved by frequency of appearance.
Thisstep is the same for both linguistic and semanticapproach.
Finally, we collect the results andgenerate the task output format.3 ResultsThe best result in DDI detection and classification(macro-average score) were obtained by thelinguistic approach (run 2), achieving a F1 measureof 0.534.Focusing on DDI detection results, we can seethat linguistic approach also overcome thesemantic approach, obtaining a F1 score of 0.676and 0.537 respectively.
This can be explained sincethe SL kernel optimizes linguistic informationrather than semantic information.
Therefore, ATCcode format is not appropriate for SL kernel.However, the score obtained by the linguisticapproach using SL kernel with multiword entitiesprocessing seems to be higher than the averageresults obtained in DDIExtraction 2011 task.
Thismay be due to the great improvement thatDrugDDI corpus suffered since the lastcompetition, by enriching the information of eachentity.Finally, we have a word to notice the decreaseof the results from DDI detection evaluation toDDI detection and classification evaluation.
Thiscould be due to the complexity of the DDI typeclassification task.
However, the final result ofmacro-average score shows huge margin ofimprovement.4 Conclusion and future workIn this paper we present a kernel based approach toidentify and classify DDIs by using SL kernel.
Theresult obtained by the system achieves 0.534 F1measure.
From linguistic approach and semanticapproach purposed for the participation in the task,the linguistic approach shows better results.However, we can not discard semantic informationsince we may have not used the appropriatesemantic information for a shallow linguistickernel.Thus, a possible future work could be theresearch in semantic information processing tohelp in the classification process.
Therefore,another future work could be the integration ofpharmacological ontologies in the classificationprocess since they increase the knowledgeavailable for the classification task.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been funded by MA2VICMRproject (S2009/TIC-1542) and MULTIMEDICAproject10 (TIN 2010-20644-C03-01).ReferencesAamodt A., Plaza E. 1994.
Case-Based Reasoning:Foundational Issues, Methodological Variations, andSystem Approaches.
AI Communications 7(1), P 39?59.Airola, A., Pyysalo, S., Bj?rne, J., Pahikkala, T., Ginter,F., Salakoski, T. 2008.
Allpaths graph kernel forprotein-protein interaction extraction with evaluationof cross-corpus learning.
BMC Bioinformatics, 9S11, S2.Bj?rne J., Airola A., Pahikkala T., Salakoski T. 2011.Drug-Drug interaction extraction from biomedical10 http://labda.inf.uc3m.es/multimedica/Table 1: Results obtained by the system.620texts with SVM and RLS classifiers.
Proceedings ofDDIExtraction2011, SEPLN 2011.Browne A.C., McCray A.T., Srinivasan S. 2000.
TheSPECIALIST Lexicon.
NLM, Bethesda.Chowdhury MFM, Lavelli A.
2011.
Drug-drugInteraction Extraction Using Composite Kernels.Proceedings of DDIExtraction2011, SEPLN 2011.Giuliano C, Lavelli A, Romano L. 2006.
Exploitingshallow linguistic information for relation extractionfrom biomedical literature.
Proceedings of EACL2006.Culotta A., Sorensen J.
2004.
Dependency tree kernelsfor relation extraction.
Proceedings of the 42ndannual metting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Lease, M., Charniak, E. 2005.
Parsing biomedical liter-ature.
Proceedings of IJCNLP?05.Marneffe M.C., MacCartney B., Manning C.D.
2006.Generating Typed Dependency Parses from PhraseStructure Parses.
Proceedings of LREC 2006.Moschitti, A.
2004.
A study on convolution kernels forshallow semantic parsing.
Proceedings of the 42ndAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics.
ACL ?04.Segura-Bedmar, I., Mart?nez, P., Pablo-S?nchez, C.d.2010.
Using a shallow linguistic kernel for drug-druginteraction extraction.
BMC BioInformatics.Thomas P., Neves M., Solt I., Tikk D., Leser U.
2011.Relation Extraction for Drug-Drug Interaction usingEnsemble Learning.
Proceedings of DDIExtrac-tion2011, SEPLN 2011.Tikk, D., Thomas, P., Palaga, P., Hakenberg, J., Leser,U.
2010.
A comprehensive benchmark of kernelmethods to extract protein-protein interactions fromliterature.
PLoS Comput Biol 6.Vapnik, V.N.
1995.
The nature of statistical learningtheory.
Springer-Verlag New York.621
