Second Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM), Volume 2: Seventh International Workshop on SemanticEvaluation (SemEval 2013), pages 622?627, Atlanta, Georgia, June 14-15, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsUEM-UC3M: An Ontology-based named entity recognition system forbiomedical texts.Daniel Sanchez-Cisneros Fernando Aparicio GaliUniversidad Carlos III de Madrid Universidad Europea de MadridAvda.
de la Universidad, 30 C/ Tajo, s/n.
Urb.
El Bosque28911 Legan?s - Madrid - Spain 28670-Villaviciosa de Od?n- (Madrid)dscisner@inf.uc3m.es fernando.aparicio@uem.esAbstractDrug name entity recognition focuses onidentifying concepts appearing in the text thatcorrespond to a chemical substance used inpharmacology for treatment, cure, preventionor diagnosis of diseases.
This paper describesa system based on ontologies for identifyingthe chemical substances in biomedical text.The system achieves an F-1 measure of 0.529in the task.1 IntroductionNamed entity recognition (NER) involvesprocessing text and identifying certain occurrencesof words belonging to particular categories ofnamed entities.
In recent years, much attention hasbeen paid to the problem of recognizing gene andprotein mentions in biomedical abstracts fordifferent purposes such as information extraction,relation extraction or information retrieval.
In thiscase we focus on the pharmacological domain.Furthermore, some initiatives have promoted theevaluation of different systems of named entityrecognition and relation extraction in thepharmacological domain.
This is the case ofSemeval 2013: Recognition and classification ofdrug names task1 (Segura-Bedmar et al 2013),where the system presented in this communicationhas been evaluated.1 http://www.cs.york.ac.uk/semeval-2013/task9/data/uploads/task-9.1-drug-ner.pdfFollowing the annotation guidelines of the task, adrug is a substance that is used in the treatment,cure, prevention or diagnosis of disease.
Moreover,each drug name entity can be classified in fourdifferent types: drug, brand, drug_n and group.Our system uses biomedical ontologies andexternal resources (containing biomedicalinformation) as input to determine whether we aretreating a drug name entity or not.The resource integration seems to represent animprovement since the knowledge available foridentifying entities is higher.
Some biomedicalresources such as Drugbank2, Kegg3, Pubchem4 orDrugs.com5 focus on providing a compound ofinformation collected from different sources.Section 2 exposes some related work in the fieldof NER.
In section 3 we describe the system usedfor identifying drug name entities.
Section 4presents the results obtained by the system and alittle comparison with other approaches.
In section5 we outline some conclusions obtained and ideasfor future work.2 Related workThe field of NER has been very studied in recentyears, and has been faced in many approaches.Since text structures are frequently used tocharacterize documents in text mining algorithms,there only stand out those based in terms and2 http://www.drugbank.ca/3 http://www.genome.jp/kegg/4 http://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/5 http://www.drugs.com/622Figure 1: Architecture of the system.concepts.
This is due to that concept-based systemsrepresent the semantic content with a smallernumber of characteristics, opposite to the term-based systems based on characters or words.Concept-based and term-based representationsmainly differ in the implicit or explicit appearance,respectively, of the words identified in thedocument.
This fact implies that concept-basedextraction techniques are more complex, requiringthe use of more advanced computational linguisticstechniques and a greater dependence on knowledgedomain.One reference system that focuses on conceptrecognition in the biomedical domain is MetaMap(Aronson, 2001).
MetaMap is a program developedby the National Library of Medicine (NLM) thatuses the UMLS Metathesaurus for annotating theconcepts in a given text.
The program is designedto obtain the concept that best fits a particularphrase, finding its origin in an attempt to improvethe retrieval of biomedical literature indexed inMEDLINE/PubMed.
MetaMap is a program withmany strengths, such as the power of linguisticanalysis, the high performance setting possibilitiesand the variety of processing algorithms included.On the other hand, MetaMap shows someweaknesses such as the algorithms developingfocused on English grammar texts, or highprocessing time lapse due to the complexity of thealgorithms (not suitable for real-time systems).Metamap analysis time periods goes from less thana minute for short simple text to long hours forcomplex sentences.Gimli (Campos et al 2013) is an open source andhigh-performance solution for biomedical namedentity recognition on scientific documents,supporting the automatic recognition of gene,proteins, DNA, RNA, and cell domain names.
Thistool implements a machine learning approachbased on conditional random fields (CRF).On the other hand, there exists a more recentconcept extraction techniques based on ontologies.Ontologies link concept labels to theirinterpretations, ie specifications of their meaningsincluding concept definitions and relations to otherconcepts.
Apart from relations such as isa andpart-of, generally present in almost any domain,ontologies also model domain-specific relations, egclinically-associated-with and has-manifestationare specific associations for the biomedicaldomain.
Therefore, ontologies reflect the structureof the domain and constrain the potentialinterpretations of terms.
Thus, ontologies canprovide rich concept knowledge of domain specificname entities.
This is the case of Open BiomedicalAnnotator (OBA) (Jonquet et al 2009), animpressive annotation system using ontologies,which provides online access for users and forother systems as a Web service.
There are otherexamples of utilities for extracting concepts usingontologies (e.g.
Terminizer (Hancock et al 2009),Whatizit (Rebholz-Schuhmann et al 2008) orReflect (Pafilis et al 2009)).
However, themagnitude of ontologies and resources integratedunder the OBA Web service is difficult to reach byother systems (Whetzel et al 2011): in three years623(from 2008 to 2011), they have increased from 72to 260 biomedical ontologies.The concept recognition tool used by the OBAsystem -in order to find ontology conceptsmatching the terms extracted from texts- is calledMgrep.
Although Mgrep is not a free tool, someresults are presented in (Jonquet et al 2008).
Acomparison between Mgrep and MetaMap can alsobe found in (Shah et al 2009), where they makean evaluation over a biological and disease termsdictionaries with precision (0.87 to 0.71respectively) and recall (1548 to 1730 recoveredterms respectively) metrics.
Thus, we decided touse Mgrep for identifying drug name entities in thesystem.3 Description of the systemThe system (see figure 1) is divided in two phases:(i) in one hand, the system must scan drug nameentities without specifying any further information.This is the so-called entity identification process;(ii) on the other hand, the system classifies byusing a rule-based process the type of the entitiesdiscovered previously.
This is the so-called entityclassification process.The corpus is processed sentence by sentence,using the identification tag provided for eachsentence.3.1 Entity identification processIn this phase we analyze each sentence of thecorpus with Mgrep analyzer.
This tool allows us toset the ontologies we want to use in the analysis.All additional ontologies used in the analysisincreases the computational complexity required.The ontologies used in this first drug nameidentification phase belong to UMLS collection,and more specifically to the pharmacologicaldomain:?
Master Drug Data Base6 (MDDB): NationalDrug Data File ontology provides a codifieddrug dictionary, drug vocabulary, and drugpricing for prescription drugs and medication-based over-the-counter products in the UnitedStates.
It supports the ever-changing world ofdrug information in healthcare.?
National Drug File7 (NDF): this ontologycontains information about a comprehensiveset of drug database elements and clinicalinformation approved by the U.S. Food andDrug Administration (FDA), and dietarysupplements information.?
National Drug Data File (NDDF): this is anextension of the NDF ontology that includeschemical ingredients, clinical kinetics,diseases, dose forms, pharmaceuticalpreparations, physiological effects and6 http://www.medispan.com/medi-span-electronic-drug-file.aspx7 http://www.fdbhealth.com/fdb-medknowledge/Figure 2a: Result of analysis with the Mgrep analyzer.Figure 2b: Example of multiword drug entity divided.624therapeutic categories.?
Ontology for Drug Discovery Investigations:this ontology contains information aboutdescription of drug discovery investigationsfrom OBO8 relation ontology.?
MESH Thesaurus9: this ontology contains setsof terms naming descriptors in a hierarchicalstructure.
There exist 26,853 descriptors andover 213,000 entry terms in 2013 MeSH.For each drug name entity identified the Mgrepanalyzer provides information about the ontologyconcept recognized, term information, snippet oforiginal text (see figure 2a).
After identifying drugname entities we noticed some errors in therecognized concepts, thus we held a post-processing of the analysis results.
Some entities arerecognized by several ontologies at the same time,so it is necessary to filter repeated instances.Biomedical complex name entities are notidentified.
To solve this, we join compound nameentities by following the charoffset of the sentence.The system only links two or more drug entitiesthat were next to each other, without punctuationbetween them.
For example, potassium chloride(see figure 2b) is recognized separately inpotassium and chloride, so we group it aspotassium chloride concept.As a result of this process we obtain a list ofclear drug name entities that conforms our run 1approach in the task.
However, we elaborate asecond filter based in a gazetteer containing termswith no useful meaning for our drug name entityidentification purpose.
This gazetteer containsterms such as agent, compound and blocker.
Theresults of this second filter conforms our run 2approach in the task.
As a result of entityidentification phase we obtain a list of drug nameentities, but they are not identified as any type yet.3.2 Entity classification processIn this phase we classify the list of pharmaceuticalterms obtained from analysis phase.
To do so, weelaborate a rule-based system following theannotation methods described in the taskguidelines.
This annotation method was based inbiomedical resources, such as DrugBank, fordetermining aspects as if the drug entity is8 http://www.obofoundry.org/ro/9 http://www.nlm.nih.gov/pubs/factsheets/mesh.htmlapproved for human use, or if the drug entity isregistered as a brand name.
We can organize thegeneral rules of the classification process byresources used:?
DrugBank: These rules search the drug entityin DrugBank resource and obtain severalinformation:o Drug information: information aboutapproval state of the drug (approved,experimental, illicit).
A rule classifiesa drug entity as drug_n whenexperimental or illicit state is found ina drug, otherwise the drug entity iscatalogued as drug type.o Synonym list: list of possibleregistered names of the entity.
Arecursive process searches eachsynonym in DrugBank (obviating thesynonym list this time), and applies therules as if original drug entity weretreated.
The result of the recursiveprocess affect to the original drugentity.o Brand name list: list of registeredcommercial brand names of the entity.If a drug name entity is found in thebrand name list, then it is cataloguedas a brand type.o Categories: information about generalcategory of drug.
If the drug is foundas a category, then it is classified asgroup type.?
Pubchem: These rules search the drug entityand obtain information of drug identificationand compound information and IUPAC name.?
ATC Index10: These rules look for the drugentity in ATC Index resource and determinewhether the entity is drug or group dependingon the level of ATC code found.?
Kegg: These rules search the drug entity in thisresource and obtain information of drugcategories.
If the drug is found as a category,then it is classified as group type.?
MeSH11:  These rules search information aboutMeSH tree categories classification of the drugentity.
If the drug is found as a category, thenit is classified as group type.
Another rulemakes a na?ve processing of the MeSH10 http://www.whocc.no/atc_ddd_index/11 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/67055162625description text to evaluate if the drug entitywere used in humans.
If this information isfound in the text, then the drug entity isclassified as a drug type.The described rules are representative examplesof the complete rule-based system.
There wereassigned priorities to the rules, since some rules aremore certain to describe a drug type than others.Thus, if a drug entity is found to be approved forusing in humans after processing the MeSH text,but when looking the DrugBank state is found asillicit state, then the drug is classified as drug_ntype since DrugBank offers a certain state of thedrug, instead of a natural text description that maybe classified as a false positive.
Depending on thevalues collected on these biomedical resources therule-based system determines whether the type ofan entity is a drug, group, brand or drug_n.4 ResultsThe best result in entity identification (exactmatching) obtained by the system correspond torun 2, achieving a F1 measure of 0.609.
On theother hand, the best results achieved in strictmatching (boundary and type evaluation)correspond to run 2 again, with 0.529 F1 score.These results contrast with the result obtained byrun 1, achieving a F1 measure of 0.528 and 0.458in entity identification and strict matchingevaluation respectively.
Thus we can quantify theadvantage of using a filter based on gazetteer in anaverage increment of 0.079 F1 measure.We have noticed that the higher results areobtained in partial matching evaluation because ofthe relaxed conditions of the charoffset.
This seemsreasonable since complex multiword entity is hardto parse and define an exact charoffset.On the other hand, we also noticed thatevaluating the classification of the type decrementthe best results obtained by the system from 0.609to 0.529 of F1 score.
This indicates that there isstill a lot of improvement work in the rule-basedsystem for type classification.
A little erroranalysis was done in a set of 10 documents of thetraining dataset.
The results show errors inconflictive entities that show multiples categoriesin DrugBank resource.
Thus, for example cocainedrug entity contains tags of illicit and approved inDrugBank database, so the system classify thisentity as drug_n instead of drug.5 Conclusions and future workIn this paper we present a system for drug nameentity recognition based on ontologies asparticipation for ?Semeval 2013: Recognition andclassification of drug names?
task.
The system isbased on integration of biomedical resources foridentification and classification of pharmacologicalentities.
The best result of the system obtained anF1 measure of 0.529.The usage of ontologies in named entityrecognition task seems to be a good choice sincewe can select specific ontologies.
A possible futurework includes an improvement of rule-basedsystem, including a bigger collection of biomedicalresources.
The entity classification could increasethe results by creating an hybrid approach betweenrule-based methods and machine learningtechniques.
On the other hand, in the entitiesidentification task, the system could include otherbiomedical text analyzers and establish a votesystem.
This would improve whether we consideran entity or not.
Finally, in error analysis werenoticed problems related to rule-based module.Therefore, an insightful improve could passthrough making a context analysis in order to clearthe ambiguity surrounding the drug entity.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been funded by MA2VICMRproject (S2009/TIC-1542) and MULTIMEDICAproject12 (TIN 2010-20644-C03-01).References12 http://labda.inf.uc3m.es/multimedica/Table 1: Results obtained by the system.626Aronson, A.R.
2001.
Effective mapping of biomedicaltext to the UMLS Metathesaurus: the MetaMapprogram.Proc AMIA Symp.
17?21.4.Campos, D., Matos, S., Oliveira J.L.. 2013.
Gimli: opensource and high-performance biomedical namerecognition.
BMC Bioinformatics 14:54.Hancock, D., Morrison N., Velarde G., Field D. 2009.Terminizer - Assisting Mark-Up of Text UsingOntological Terms.
Nature Precedings.Jonquet C., Musen M.A., Shah N. 2008.
A System forOntology-Based Annotation of Biomedical Data.Data Integration in the Life Sciences, Springer BerlinHeidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, pp.
144?152.Jonquet, C., Shah N.H., Musen M.A.
2009.
The OpenBiomedical Annotator, Summit on TranslatBioinforma.
56?60.Pafilis E., O?Donoghue S.I., Jensen L.J., Horn H., KuhnM., Brown N.P., et al2009.
Reflect: augmentedbrowsing for the life scientist.
Nature Biotechnology,27, 508?510.Rebholz-Schuhmann D., Arregui M., Gaudan S., KirschH., Jimeno A.
2008.
Text processing through Webservices: calling Whatizit.
Bioinformatics.
24, 296?298.Segura-Bedmar I., Mart?nez P., Herrero-Zazo M. 2013.SemEval-2013 Task 9 : Extraction of Drug-DrugInteractions from Biomedical Texts (DDIExtraction2013).
Proceedings of Semeval 2013.Shah N.H., Bhatia N., Jonquet C., Rubin D., ChiangA.P., Musen M.A.
2009.
Comparison of conceptrecognizers for building the Open BiomedicalAnnotator.
BMC Bioinformatics.10, S14.Whetzel P.L., Noy N.F., Shah N.H., Alexander P.R.,Nyulas C., Tudorache T., et al2011.
BioPortal:enhanced functionality via new Web services fromthe National Center for Biomedical Ontology toaccess and use ontologies in software applications.Nucleic Acids Research.
39, W541?W545.627
