Second Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM), Volume 1: Proceedings of the Main Conferenceand the Shared Task, page 254, Atlanta, Georgia, June 13-14, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsKeynote Address:More Words and Bigger PicturesDavid ForsythUniversity of IllinoisUrbana-Champaigndaf@illinois.eduAbstractObject recognition is a little like translation: a pic-ture (text in a source language) goes in, and a de-scription (text in a target language) comes out.
Iwill use this analogy, which has proven fertile, todescribe recent progress in object recognition.We have very good methods to spot some objectsin images, but extending these methods to producedescriptions of images remains very difficult.
Thedescription might come in the form of a set of words,indicating objects, and boxes or regions spanned bythe object.
This representation is difficult to workwith, because some objects seem to be much moreimportant than others, and because objects interact.An alternative is a sentence or a paragraph describ-ing the picture, and recent work indicates how onemight generate rich structures like this.
Further-more, recent work suggests that it is easier and moreeffective to generate descriptions of images in termsof chunks of meaning (?person on a horse?)
ratherthan just objects (?person?
; ?horse?
).Finally, if the picture contains objects that are un-familiar, then we need to generate useful descrip-tions that will make it possible to interact with them,even though we don?t know what they are.About the SpeakerDavid Forsyth is currently a full professor at U. Illi-nois at Urbana-Champaign, where he moved fromU.C Berkeley, where he was also full professor.
Hehas published over 130 papers on computer vision,computer graphics and machine learning.
He hasserved as program chair and as general chair for var-ious international conferences on computer vision.He received an IEEE technical achievement awardfor 2005 for his research and became an IEEE fellowin 2009.
His textbook, ?Computer Vision: A Mod-ern Approach?
(joint with J. Ponce and published byPrentice Hall) is widely adopted as a course text.
Asecond edition appeared in 2011.
He was named ed-itor in chief of IEEE TPAMI for a term starting inJan 2013.254
