Second Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM), Volume 2: Seventh International Workshop on SemanticEvaluation (SemEval 2013), pages 64?72, Atlanta, Georgia, June 14-15, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsJU_CSE: A CRF Based Approach to Annotation of Temporal Expres-sion, Event and Temporal RelationsAnup Kumar Kolya1, Amitava Kundu1,Rajdeep Gupta1Asif Ekbal2, Sivaji Bandyopadhyay11Dept.
of Computer Science & Engineering 2Dept.
of Computer Science & EngineeringJadavpur Univeristy IIT PatnaKolkata-700 032, India Patna-800 013, India{anup.kolya,amitava.jucse,rajdeepgupta20}@gmail.comasif@iitp.ac.in,sivaji_ju_cse@yahoo.comAbstractIn this paper, we present the JUCSE system,designed for the TempEval-3 shared task.
Thesystem extracts events and temporal infor-mation from natural text in English.
We haveparticipated in all the tasks of TempEval-3,namely Task A, Task B & Task C. We haveprimarily utilized the Conditional RandomField (CRF) based machine learning tech-nique, for all the above tasks.
Our systemseems to perform quite competitively in TaskA and Task B.
In Task C, the system?s per-formance is comparatively modest at the ini-tial stages of system development.
We haveincorporated various features based on differ-ent lexical, syntactic and semantic infor-mation, using Stanford CoreNLP and Wordnetbased tools.1 IntroductionTemporal information extraction has been a popu-lar and interesting research area of Natural Lan-guage Processing (NLP) for quite some time.Generally, a lot of events are described in a varietyof newspaper texts, stories and other importantdocuments where the different events describedhappen at different time instants.
The temporallocation and ordering of these events are eitherspecified or implied.
Automatic identification oftime expressions and events and annotation oftemporal relations constitute an important task intext analysis.
These are also important in a widerange of NLP applications that include temporalquestion answering, machine translation and doc-ument summarization.A lot of research in the area of temporal infor-mation extraction has been conducted on multiplelanguages, including English and several Europeanlanguages.
The TimeML was first developed in2002 in an extended workshop called TERQAS(Time and Event Recognition for Question An-swering Systems) and, in 2003, it was further de-veloped in the context of the TANGO workshop(TimeML Annotation Graphical Organizer).
Sincethen most of the works in this research arena havebeen conducted in English.
The variety of worksinclude TimeML (Pustejovsky et al 2003), thedevelopment of a temporally annotated corpusTime-Bank (Pustejovsky et al 2003), the temporalevaluation challenges TempEval-1 (Verhagen etal., 2007), TempEval-2 (Pustejovsky and Verha-gen, 2010).
In the series of Message UnderstandingConferences (MUCs) that started from 1987 andthe Sheffield Temporal Annotation scheme(STAG) (Setzer &Gaizauskas, 2000) the  aim  wasto identify events in news text and determine theirrelationship with points on a temporal line.In the series of TempEval evaluation exercises,TempEval-1 was the first one where the focus wason identification of three types of temporal rela-tion: relation between an event and a time expres-sion in the same sentence, relation between an64event and the document creation time, and relationbetween two main events in consecutive sentences.TempEval-2 was a follow up to TempEval-1and consisted of six subtasks rather than three.
Itadded (i) identification of time expressions anddetermination of values of the attributes TYPE andVAL (ii) identification of event expressions anddetermination of its attribute values.
It included theprevious three relation tasks from TempEval-1 andan additional task of annotating temporal relationbetween a pair of events where one subordinatesthe other.We have participated in all three tasks ofTempEval-3- Task A, Task B and Task C. A com-bination of CRF based machine learning and rulebased techniques has been adopted for temporalexpression extraction and determination of attrib-ute values of the same   (Task A).
We have used aCRF based technique for event extraction (TaskB), with the aid of lexical, semantic and syntacticfeatures.
For determination of event attribute val-ues we have used simple rule based techniques.Automatic annotation of temporal relation betweenevent-time in the same sentence, event-DCT rela-tions, mainevent-mainevent relations in consecu-tive sentences and subevent-subevent relations inthe same sentences has been introduced as a newtask (Task-C) in the TempEval-3 exercise.
Wehave adopted a CRF based technique for the sameas well.2 The JU_CSE System ApproachThe JU_CSE system for the TempEval-3 sharedtask uses mainly a Conditional Random Field(CRF) machine learning approach to achieve TaskA, Task B & Task C. The workflow of our systemis illustrated in Figure 1.2.1 Task A: Temporal Expression Identifica-tion and NormalizationTemporal Expression Identification:We have used CRF++ 0.571, an open source im-plementation of the Conditional Random Field(CRF) machine learning classifier for our experi-ments.
CRF++ templates have been used to capturethe relation between the different features in a se-quence to identify temporal expressions.
Temporal1 http://crfpp.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/doc/index.htmlexpressions mostly appear as multi-word entitiessuch as ?the next three days?.
Therefore the use ofCRF classifier that uses context information of atoken seemed most appropriate.Initially, all the sentences have been changed toa vertical token-by-token level sequential structurefor temporal expressions representation by a B-I-Oencoding, using a set of mostly lexical features.
Inthis encoding of temporal expression, ?B?
indi-cates the ?beginning of sequence?, ?I?
indicates atoken inside a sequence and ?O?
indicates an out-side word.
We have carefully chosen the featureslist based on the several entities that denote monthnames, year, weekdays, various digit expressions(day, time, AM, PM etc.)
In certain temporal ex-pression patterns (several months, last evening)some words (several, last) act as modifiers to thefollowing words that represent the time expression.Temporal expressions include time expressionmodifiers, relative days, periodic temporal set,year-eve day, month name with their short patternforms, season of year, time of day, decade list andso on.
We have used the POS information of eachtoken as a feature.
We have carefully accounted fora simple intuition revelation that most temporalexpressions contain some tokens conveying the?time?
information while others possibly convey-ing the ?quantity?
of time.
For example, in the ex-pression ?next three days?, ?three?
quantifies?days?.
Following are the different temporal ex-pressions lists that have been utilized:?
A list of time expression modifiers: this,mid, recent, earlier, beginning, late etc.?
A list of relative days: yesterday, tomor-row etc.?
A list of periodic temporal set: hourly,nightly etc.?
A list of year eve day: Christmas Day,Valentine Day etc.?
A list of month names with their short pat-tern forms: April, Apr.
etc.?
A list of season of year: spring, winter etc.?
A list of time of day: morning, afternoon,evening etc.?
A list of decades list: twenties, thirties etc.65Raw Text:For his part, Fidel Castro is the ultimate politicalsurvivor.
People have predicted his demise somany times, and the US has tried to hasten it onseveral occasions.
Time and again, he endures.?
Tokenize with Stanford CoreNLP?
Obtain POS tags of tokens?
Extract features from tokens?
Identify the features for event annotation andtemporal annotation separatelyCRFEvent &TimeFeaturesTag EVENTtokensTagTIMEX3tokens.For???
OTHERSnearly ???..
TIMEX3forty?.
?
TIMEX3years??..
TIMEX3...People???
OTHERShave ???..
OTHERSpredicted ?.
?
EVENThis ????..
OTHERS..Annotated TextFor his part, Fidel Castro is the ultimate political survivor.People have <EVENT class="I_ACTION"eid="e1">predicted</EVENT> his <EVENTclass="OCCURRENCE" eid="e2">demise</EVENT> somany times, and the US has <EVENT class="I_ACTION"eid="e3">tried</EVENT> to <EVENTclass="OCCURRENCE" eid="e4">hasten</EVENT> it onseveral occasions.DetermineEventClassCoreNLPfor ?type?& ?velue?<MAKEINSTANCE eiid="ei1?
eventID="e1" pos="VERB"tense="PRESENT" aspect="PERFECTIVE" polarity="POS" /><MAKEINSTANCE eiid="ei2?
eventID="e2" pos="NOUN"tense="PRESENT" aspect="PERFECTIVE" polarity="POS" /><MAKEINSTANCE eiid="ei3?
eventID="e3" pos="VERB"tense="PRESENT" aspect="PERFECTIVE" polarity="POS" />Rule based approach to obtain tense, as-pect, polarity, modality etc.
for eventsEnlist entity pairs with features<mainevent-mainevent><event-event><event-dct><event-time>CRFTemporal Relations:<TLINK lid="l1" relType="BEFORE"eventInstanceID="ei1" relatedTo-Time="t0" /><TLINK lid="l2" relType="BEFORE"eventInstanceID="ei2" relatedToEven-tInstance="ei1" />Figure 1.The JU_CSE System Architecture66Determination of Normalized value and typeof Temporal Expressions:Temporal expressions in documents are generallydefined with the type and value attributes.
All thetemporal expressions can be differentiated intothree types (i) explicit (ii) relative and (iii) implicittemporal expressions.
For example, the expression?October 1998?
refers to a specific month of theyear which can be normalized without any addi-tional information.
On the other hand, the relativeexpression ?yesterday?
can?t be normalized with-out the knowledge of a corresponding referencetime.
The reference time can either be a temporalexpression or the Document Creation Time markedin the document.
Consider the following piece oftext: ?Yesterday was the 50th independence of In-dia?.
The First Independence Day of India is 15thaugust 1947.?
Here ?Yesterday?
can be normal-ized as ?15-08-1997?.
It may be noted that infor-mation such as ?First Independence Day of India?can be directly accessed from the timestamp calen-dar, through the metadata of a document.
The thirdtype of temporal expressions includes implicit ex-pressions such as names of festival days, birthdaysand holidays or events.
These expressions aremapped to available calendar timeline to find outtheir normalized values.TemporalExpressionType ValueA couple ofyearsDURATION P2YOctober DATE ?1997-10?Every day SET P1D2 P.M. TIME 2013-02-01T14:00Now DATE PRESENT_REF"Table 1: TimeML normalized type and value attributesfor temporal expressionsWe have implemented a combined technique us-ing our handcrafted rules and annotations given bythe Stanford CoreNLP tool to determine the ?type?-s and ?value?-s. Four types TIME, DATE,DURATION and SET of temporal expressions aredefined in the TimeML framework.
Next, we haveevaluated the normalized value of temporal expres-sions using Document Creation Time (DCT) fromthe documents.
In this way, values of differentdates have been inferred e.g.
last year, Monday,and today.2.2 Task B: Extraction of Event Words andDetermination of Event Attribute ValuesEvent ExtractionIn our evaluation framework, we have used theStanford CoreNLP tool extensively to tokenize,lemmatize, named-entity annotate and part-of-speech tag the text portions of the input files.
Forevent extraction, the features have been consideredat word level, where each word has its own set offeatures.
The general features used to train ourCRF model are:Morphological Features: Event words are rep-resented mostly as verbs and nouns.
The majorproblem is detecting the events having non-verbalPoS labels.
Linguistically, non-verbal wordformsare derived from verbal wordforms.
Various inflec-tional and derivational morphological rules areinvolved in the process of evolving from verbal tonon-verbal wordforms.
We have used a set ofhandcrafted rules to identify the suffixes such as (?-ci?n?, ?-tion?
or ?-ion?
), i.e., the morphologicalmarkers of word token, where Person, Locationand Organization words are not considered.
ThePOS and lemma, in a 5-window (-2, +2), has beenused for event extraction.Syntactic Feature: Different event words no-tions are contained in the sentences such as: verb-noun combinations structure, the complements ofaspectual prepositional phrases (PPs) headed byprepositions and a particular type of complexprepositions.
These notions are captured to be usedas syntactic features for event extraction.WordNet Feature: The RiTa Wordnet2 packagehas been effectively used to extract different prop-erties of words, such as Synonyms, Antonyms,Hypernyms, & Hyponyms, Holonyms, Meronyms,Coordinates, & Similars, Nominalizations, Verb-Groups, & Derived-terms.
We have used theseWordnet properties in the training file for the CRFin the form of binary features for verbs and nounsindicating if  the words like ?act?, ?activity?, ?phe-nomenon?
etc.
occur  in different relations of theWordnet ontology.2 http://www.rednoise.org/rita/wordnet/documentation/67Features using Semantic Roles: We use Se-mantic Role Label (SRL) (Gildea et el, 2002; Pra-dhan et al2004; Gurevich et al2006) to identifydifferent useful features for event extraction.
Foreach predicate in a sentence acting as event word,semantic roles extract all constituents; determinetheir arguments (agent, patient, etc.)
and adjuncts(locative, temporal, etc.).
Some of the other fea-tures like predicate, voice and verb sub-categorization are shared by all the nodes in thetree.
In the present work, we use predicate as anevent.
Semantic roles can be used to detect theevents that are nominalizations of verbs such asagreement for agree or construction for construct.Event nominalizations often share the same seman-tic roles as verbs, and often replace them in writtenlanguage.
Noun words, morphologically derivedfrom verbs, are commonly defined as deverbalnouns.
Event and result nominalizations constitutethe bulk of deverbal nouns.
The first class refers toan event/activity/process, with the nominal ex-pressing this action (e.g., killing, destruction etc.
).Nouns in the second class describe the result orgoal of an action (e.g., agreement, consensus etc.
).Many nominals denote both the event and result(e.g., selection).
A smaller class is agent/patientnominalizations that are usually identified by suf-fixes such as -er, -or etc., while patient nominaliza-tions end with -ee, -ed (e.g.
employee).Object information of Dependency Relations(DR): We have developed handcrafted rules toidentify features for CRF training, based on theobject information present in the dependency rela-tions of parsed sentences.
Stanford Parser (deMarneffe et al 2006), a probabilistic lexicalizedparser containing 45 different Part-of-Speech(PoS) tags of Penn Treebank is used to get theparsed sentences with dependency relations.
Thedependency relations are found out for the predi-cates ?dobj?
so that the direct object related com-ponents in the ?dobj?
predicate is considered as thefeature for the event expression.
Initially the inputsentences are passed to the dependency parser3.From the parsed output verb noun combinationdirect object (dobj) dependency relations are ex-tracted.
These dobj relations basically inform usthat direct object of a VP is the noun phrase whichis the (accusative) object of the verb; the directobject of a clause is the direct object of the VP3 http://nlp.stanford.edu:8080/parser/which is the predicate of that clause.
Within thedobj relation governing verb word and dependentnoun words are acting as important features forevent identification when dependent word is notplaying any role in other dependency relation(nsubj, prep_of, nn ,etc.)
of the sentence.In this way, we have set list of word tokens andits features to train the recognition model.
Then themodel will give to each word one of the valid la-bels.Determination of various Event AttributeValues:Values of different event attributes have beencomputed as follows:Class: Identification of the class of an event hasbeen done using a simple, intuitive, rule based ap-proach.
Here too, the hypernym list of an eventtoken from RitaWordnet has been deployed to de-termine the class of the respective event.
In thiscase, OCCURRENCE has been considered the de-fault class.Tense, Aspect, POS: These three attributes arethe obligatory attributes of MAKEINSTANCEtags.
To determine the tense, aspect and polarity ofan event, we have used the ?parse?
annotator inCoreNLP.
We annotated each sentence with theStanford dependency relations using the above an-notator.
Thereafter various specific relations wereused to determine the tense, aspect and POS of anevent token, with another rule based approach.
Forexample, in the phrase ?has been abducted?, thetoken ?been?
appears as the dependent in an ?aux?relation with the event token ?abducted?
; andhence the aspect ?PERFECTIVE?
is inferred.
Thevalue ?NONE?
has been used as the default valuefor both tense and aspect.Polarity and Modality: Polarity of event tokensare determined using Stanford dependency rela-tions too; here the ?neg?
relation.
To determine themodality we search for modal words in ?aux?
rela-tions with the event token.2.3 Task C: Temporal Relation AnnotationWe have used the gold-standard TimeBank fea-tures for events and times for training the CRF.
Inthe present work, we mainly use the various com-binations of the following features:68(i)  Part of Speech (POS)(ii)  Event Tense(iii)  Event Aspect(iv)  Event Polarity(v)  Event Modality(vi)  Event Class(vii)       Type of temporal expression(vii)  Event Stem(viii)  Document Creation Time (DCT).The following subsections describe how varioustemporal relations are computed.Event-DCTWe take the combined features of every event pre-sent in the text and the DCT for this purpose.Derived Features: We have identified differenttypes of context based syntactic features which arederived from text to distinguish the different typesof temporal relations.
In this task, following fea-tures help us to identify the event-DCT relations,specially ?AFTER?
temporal relations:(i)Modal Context: Whether or not the event wordhas one of the modal context words like- will,shall, can, may, or any of their variants (might,could, would, etc.
).In the sentence: ?The entireworld will [EVENT see] images of the Pope in Cu-ba?.
Here ?will?
context word helps us to deter-mine event-DCT relation ?AFTER?.
(ii)Preposition Context: Any prepositions preced-ing an event or time expression.
We consider anexample:?Children and invalids would be permit-ted to [EVENT leave] Iraq?.
Here the prepositionto helps us to determine event-DCT relation?AFTER?.
The same principle goes for time too: inthe expressions on Friday and for nearly fortyyears, the prepositions on and for governs the time.
(iii)Context word before or after temporal expres-sion: context words like before, after, less than,greater than etc.
help us to determine event-timetemporal relation identification.
Consider an ex-ample: ?After ten years of [EVENT boom] ?.
?Event-TimeDerived Features: We extract all events from eve-ry sentence.
For every temporal expression in asentence, we pair an event in the sentence with theformer so that the temporal relation can be deter-mined.Similar to annotation of event-DCT relations,here too, we have identified different types of con-text based temporal expression features which arederived from text to distinguish the different typesof temporal relations.
In this task, the followingfeatures help us to distinguish between event andtime relations, specially ?AFTER?
and ?BEFORE?temporal relations.
The following features are de-rived from text.
(i)Type of temporal expression: Represents thetemporal relationship holding between events,times, or between an event and a time of the event.
(ii)Temporal signal: Represents temporal preposi-tions ?on?
(on this coming Sunday) and slightlycontribute to the overall score of classifiers(iii)Temporal Expression in the target sentence:Takes the values greater than, less than, equal ornone.
These values contribute to the overall scoreof classifiers.Mainevent-Mainevent and Subevent-SubeventThe task demands that the main event of every sen-tence be determined.
As a heuristic decision, wehave assumed that the first event that appears in asentence is its main event.
We pair up main events(if present) from consecutive sentences and usetheir combined features to determine their temporalrelation.
For the events belonging to a single sen-tence, we take into account the combined featuresof all possible pairs of sentential events.Derived Features: We have identified differenttypes of context based syntactic features which arederived from text to distinguish the different typesof temporal relations.
(i)Relational context: If a relation holding be-tween the previous event and the current event is?AFTER?, the current one is in the past.
This in-formation helps us to identify the temporal relationbetween the current event and successive event.
(ii)Modal Context: Whether or not the event wordhas one of the context words like, will, shall, can,may, or any of their variants (might, could, would,etc.).
The verb and auxiliaries governing the nextevent play as an important feature in event-eventtemporal relation identification.69(iii)Ordered based context: In event-event rela-tion identification, when EVENT-1, EVENT-2,and EVENT-3 are linearly ordered, then we haveassigned true/false as feature value from tense andaspect shifts in this ordered pair.
(iv) Co-reference  based feature: We have usedco-referential features as derived feature using ourin-house system based on Standford CoreNLP tool,where two event words within or outside one sen-tence are referring to the same event, i.e.
two eventwords co-refer in a discourse.
(v)Event-DCT relation based feature: We haveincluded event-document creation times (DCT)temporal relation types as feature of event-eventrelation identification.
(ii) Preposition Context: Any prepositions beforethe event or time, we consider an exam-ple:?Children and invalids would be permitted to[EVENT leave] Iraq?.
Here the preposition tohelps us determine the event-DCT relation?AFTER?.
(vi) Context word before or after temporal ex-pression: Context words like before, after, lessthan, greater than help us determine event- eventtemporal relations .We consider an example:?Afterten years of [EVENT boom] ?.?
(vii)Stanford parser based clause boundariesfeatures: The two consecutive sentences are firstparsed using Stanford dependency parser and thenclause boundaries are identified.
Then, consideringthe prepositional context and tense verb of theclause, temporal relations are identified where alltemporal expressions are situated in the sameclause.3 Results and EvaluationFor the extraction of time expressions and events(tasks A and B), precision, recall and F1-scorehave been used as evaluation metrics, using thefollowing formulae:precision (P) = tp/(tp + fp)recall (R) = tp/(tp + fn)F-measure = 2 *(P * R) / (P + R).Where, tp is the number of tokens that are part ofan extent in keys and response, fp is the number oftokens that are part of an extent in the response butnot in the key, and fn is the number of tokens thatare part of an extent in the key but not in the re-sponse.
Additionally attribute accuracies computedaccording to the following formulae have also beenreported.Attr.
Accuracy = Attr.
F1 / Entity Extraction F1Attr.
R = Attr.
Accuracy * Entity RAttr.
P = Attr.
Accuracy * Entity PPerformance in task C is judged with the aid of theTemporal Awareness score proposed by UzZamanand Allen (2011)The JU_CSE system was evaluated on the TE-3platinum data.
Table 2 reports JU_CSE?s perfor-mance in timex extraction Task A.
Under the re-laxed match scheme, the F1-score stands at86.38% while the strict match scheme yields a F1-score of 75.41%.
As far as TIMEX attributes areconcerned, the F1-scores are 63.81% and 73.15%for value and type respectively.Timex Extraction Timex AttributeF1 P R Strict F1 Strict P Strict RValueF1TypeF1ValueAccuracyTypeAccuracy86.38 93.28 80.43 75.49 81.51 70.29 63.81 73.15 73.87 84.68Table 2:JU_CSE system?s TE-3 Results on Timex Task AEvent Extraction Event AttributeF1 P RClassF1TenseF1AspectF1ClassAccuracyTenseAccuracyAspectAccuracy78.57 80.85 76.41 52.65 58.58 72.09 67.01 74.56 91.75Table 3:JU_CSE system?s TE-3 Results on Event Task B70Table 3 reports the system?s performance inevent extraction (Task B) on TE-3 platinum da-ta.
F1-score for event extraction is 78.57%.
At-tribute F1-scores are 52.65%, 58.58% and72.09% for class, tense and aspect respectively.In both entities extraction tasks recall is nota-bly lower than precision.
The F1-scores forevent attributes are modest given that the attrib-utes were computed using handcrafted rules.However, the handcrafted approach can be treat-ed as a good baseline to start with.
Normaliza-tion is proved to be a challenging task.Task F1 P RTask-ABC 24.61 19.17 34.36Task-C 26.41 21.04 35.47Task-C-relation-only 34.77 35.07 34.48Table 4: JU_CSE system?s TE-3 Temporal Aware-ness results on Task ABC, TaskC-only & TaskC-relation-onlyTable 4 presents the Temporal Awareness F1-score for TaskABC, TaskC and TaskC-relation-only.
For TaskC-only evaluation, the event andtimex annotated data was provided and one hadto identify the TLINKs and classify the temporalrelations.
In the TaskC-relation-only version thetimex and event annotations including their at-tributes as well as TLINKs were provided savethe relation classes.
Only the relation classes hadto be determined.
The system yielded a temporalawareness F1-score of 24.6% for TaskABC,26.41% for TaskC-only and 34.77% for TaskC-relation-only version.4 Conclusions and Future DirectionsIn this paper, we have presented the JU_CSEsystem for the TempEval-3 shared task.
Our sys-tem in TempEval-3 may be seen upon as an im-provement over our earlier endeavor inTempEval-2.
We have participated in all tasks ofthe TempEval-3 exercise.
We have incorporateda CRF based approach in our system for alltasks.
The JU_CSE system for temporal infor-mation extraction is currently undergoing a lotof extensive experimentation.
The one reportedin this article seemingly has a significant scopeof improvement.
Preliminarily, the results yield-ed are quite competitive and encouraging.
Eventextraction and Timex extraction F1-scores at78.58% and 86.38% encourage us to further de-velop our CRF based scheme.
We expect betterresults with additional features and like to con-tinue our experimentations with other semanticfeatures for the CRF classifier.
Our rule-basedapproach for event attribute determination how-ever yields modest F1-scores- 52.65% &58.58% for class and tense.
We intend to exploreother machine learning techniques for event at-tribute classification.
We also intend to use parsetree based approaches for temporal relation an-notation.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been partially supported by agrant from the English to Indian language Ma-chine Translation (EILMT) project funded bythe Department of Information and Technology(DIT), Government of India.
We would also liketo thank to Mr. Jiabul Sk.
for his technical con-tribution.ReferencesA.
Setzer, and R. Gaizauskas.
2000.
AnnotatingEvents and Temporal Information in NewswireTexts.
In LREC 2000, pages 1287?1294, Athens.D.
Gildea, and D. Jurafsky.
2002.
Automatic Label-ing of Semantic Roles.
Computational Linguistics,28(3):245?288.James Pustejovsky, Jos?
Castano, Robert Ingria,Roser Sauri, Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer,Graham Katz, and Dragomir Radev.
2003.TimeML: Robust specification of event and tem-poral expressions in text.
New directions in ques-tion answering, 3: 28-34.Marc Verhagen, Robert Gaizauskas, Frank Schilder,Mark Hepple, Graham Katz, and JamesPustejovsky.
2007.
Semeval-2007 task 15:Tempeval temporal relation identification.
In Pro-ceedings of the 4th International Workshop onSemantic Evaluations, pages 75-80, ACL.71Marc Verhagen, Roser Sauri, Tommaso Caselli, andJames Pustejovsky.
2010.
Semeval-2010 task 13:Tempeval-2.
In Proceedings of the 5th Interna-tional Workshop on Semantic Evaluation, pages57- 62.
ACL.Olga Gurevich, Richard Crouch, Tracy H. King, andV.
de Paiva.
2006.
Deverbal Nouns in KnowledgeRepresentation.
Proceedings of FLAIRS, pages670?675, Melbourne Beach, FL.Sameer Pradhan, Wayne Ward, Kadri Hacioglu,James H. Martin, and Daniel Jurafsky.
2004.
Shal-low Semantic Parsing using Support Vector Ma-chine.
Proceedings of HLT/NAACL-2004,Boston, MA.UzZaman, N. and J.F.
Allen (2011), ?TemporalEvaluation.?
In Proceedings of The 49th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics: Human Language Technologies(Short Paper), Portland, Oregon, USA.72
