Proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval 2014), pages 828?832,Dublin, Ireland, August 23-24, 2014.UWM: Disorder Mention Extraction from Clinical Text Using CRFs andNormalization Using Learned Edit Distance PatternsOmid GhiasvandUniversity of Wisconsin-MilwaukeeMilwaukee, WIghiasva2@uwm.eduRohit J. KateUniversity of Wisconsin-MilwaukeeMilwaukee, WIkaterj@uwm.eduAbstractThis paper describes Team UWM?s sys-tem for the Task 7 of SemEval 2014 thatdoes disorder mention extraction and nor-malization from clinical text.
For the dis-order mention extraction (Task A), the sys-tem was trained using Conditional Ran-dom Fields with features based on words,their POS tags and semantic types, as wellas features based on MetaMap matches.For the disorder mention normalization(Task B), variations of disorder mentionswere considered whenever exact matcheswere not found in the training data or inthe UMLS.
Suitable types of variationsfor disorder mentions were automaticallylearned using a new method based on editdistance patterns.
Among nineteen partic-ipating teams, UWM ranked third in TaskA with 0.755 strict F-measure and secondin Task B with 0.66 strict accuracy.1 IntroductionEntity mention extraction is an important task inprocessing natural language clinical text.
Disor-ders, medications, anatomical sites, clinical pro-cedures etc.
are among the entity types that pre-dominantly occur in clinical text.
Out of these,the Task 7 of SemEval 2014 concentrated on ex-tracting (Task A) and normalizing (Task B) dis-order mentions.
Disorder mention extraction isparticularly challenging because disorders are fre-quently found as discontinuous phrases in clinicalsentences.
The extracted mentions were then to benormalized by mapping them to their UMLS CUIsif they were in the SNOMED-CT part of UMLSThis work is licensed under a Creative Commons At-tribution 4.0 International Licence.
Page numbers and pro-ceedings footer are added by the organisers.
Licence details:http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/and belonged to the ?disorder?
UMLS seman-tic group, otherwise they were to be declared as?CUI-less?.
This normalization task is challeng-ing because disorder names are frequently men-tioned in modified forms which prevents their ex-act matching with concept descriptions in UMLS.Our team, UWM, participated in both TaskA and Task B.
We modelled disorder mentionextraction as a standard sequence labeling task.The model was trained using Conditional Ran-dom Fields (Lafferty et al., 2001) with varioustypes of lexical and semantic features that in-cluded MetaMap (Aronson, 2001) matches.
Themodel was also inherently capable of extractingdiscontinuous disorder mentions.
To normalizedisorder mentions, our system first looked for ex-act matches with disorder mentions in the train-ing data and in the UMLS.
If no exact matchwas found, then suitable variations of the disordermentions were generated based on the commonlyused variations of disorder mentions learned fromthe training data as well as from the UMLS syn-onyms.
We developed a novel method to automat-ically learn such variations based on edit distances(Levenshtein, 1966) which is described in the nextsection.Our Team ranked third on Task A and second onTask B in the official SemEval 2014 Task 7 evalua-tion (considering only the best run for each team).We also present results of ablation studies we didon the development data in order to determine thecontributions of various features and componentsof our system.2 Methods2.1 Task A: Disorder Mention ExtractionWe modelled disorder mention extraction as a se-quence labeling task with the standard ?BIO?
(Be-gin, Inside, Outside) scheme of output labels forsentence tokens.
The tokens labelled ?I?
follow-ing the latest ?B?
token are extracted together as828a disorder.
For example, in the following labelledsequence ?the/O left/B atrium/I is/O moderately/Odilated/I?, ?left atrium dilated?
will be extractedas a disorder.
The labeling scheme thus natu-rally models discontinuously mentioned disorderswhich is one challenging aspect of the disordermention extraction task.The sequence labeling model is trained usingCondition Random Fields (CRFs) (Lafferty et al.,2001) using the five group of features shown in Ta-ble 1.
The clinical reports are first pre-processedusing Stanford CoreNLP1for tokenization, sen-tence segmentation and part-of-speech (POS) tag-ging which help in obtaining the lexical features(Group 1).
The semantic features (Group 2) areobtained by matching the tokens, along with bi-grams and trigrams in UMLS.
For the first threefeatures in Group 2, only the eleven semantictypes under the ?disorder?
semantic group are con-sidered.2If a token is a concept in UMLS with?disorder?
semantic group then its feature is as-signed the value of its semantic type (for example?congenital abnormality?, ?Neoplastic process?,etc.)
otherwise it is assigned the value ?Null?.
Thenext three features in Group 2 take Boolean valuesdepending upon whether the bigram or trigram ispresent in UMLS as a concept or not.
The last fea-ture in Group 2 takes CUI as its value if the wordis a concept in UMLS otherwise it takes ?Null?
asthe value.The features in Group 3 are obtained by runningMetaMap (Aronson, 2001).
The lemmatized ver-sion of word obtained using Stanford CoreNLP isused as an additional feature in Group 4.
Finally,if the word is an abbreviation according to a listof clinical abbreviations3then its full-form is ob-tained.4The full-form, whether it is in UMLS,and its semantic type (out of ?disorder group?)
areused as features under Group 5.
We used the CRF-suite (Okazaki, 2007) implementation of CRFs.2.2 Task B: Disorder Mention NormalizationThe extracted disease mentions from Task A arenormalized in Task B as follows.
As a first step,1http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/corenlp.shtml2We found that using all semantic groups negatively af-fected the performance.3http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_medical_abbreviations4If multiple full-forms were present then only the first onewas used.
In the future, one could improve this through ab-breviation disambiguation (Xu et al., 2012).Group 1: LexicalWordNext wordPrevious wordPOS tag of wordPOS tag of next wordPOS tag of previous wordNext to next wordPrevious to previous wordLength of the wordGroup 2: SemanticUMLS semantic type of wordUMLS semantic type of next wordUMLS semantic type of previous wordBigram with next word is in UMLSReverse bigram with next word is in UMLSTrigram with next two words is in UMLSCUI of the wordGroup 3: MetaMapWord tagged as disorder by MetaMapNext word tagged as disorder by MetaMapPrevious word tagged as disorder by MetaMapGroup 4: LemmatizationLemmatized version of the wordGroup 5: AbbreviationFull-formFull-form is in UMLSUMLS semantic type of full-formTable 1: Features used to train the CRF model for disordermention extraction.our system tries to exactly match the disease men-tions in the training data.
If they match, then thecorresponding CUI or CUI-less is the output.
Ifno match is found in the training data, then thesystem tries to exactly match names of conceptsin UMLS including their listed synonyms.5If amatch is found then the corresponding CUI is theoutput.
If the mention does not match either in thetraining data or in the UMLS and if it is an ab-breviation according to the abbreviation list (sameas used in Task A), then its full-form is used toexactly match in the training data and in UMLS.However, what makes the normalization task chal-lenging is that exact matching frequently fails.
Weemployed a novel method that learns to do approx-imate matching for this task.We found that most failures in exact matchingwere because of minor typographical variationsdue to morphology, alternate spellings or typos.In order to automatically learn such variations, wedeveloped a new method based on edit distancewhich is a measure of typographical similarity be-tween two terms.
We used a particular type ofwell-known edit distance called Levenshtein dis-5In accordance to the task definition, only the conceptslisted in SNOMED-CT and of the UMLS semantic group?disorder?
are considered in this step.829Learned Edit Distance Pattern CommentsSAME o INSERT u SAME r Change American spelling to BritishINSERT s SAME space Pluralize by adding ?s?
before spaceDELETE i DELETE e SUBSTITUTE s/y Example: ?Z-plasties??
?Z-plasty?START SAME h INSERT a SAME e SAME m SAME o Variation: ?hemo...??
?haemo...?DELETE space DELETE n DELETE o DELETE s END Drop ?
nos?
in the endSAME s SUBSTITUTE i/e SAME s Example: ?metastasis??
?metastases?Table 2: A few illustrative edit distance patterns that were automatically learned from UMLS and the training data.Data used for training Task A Task BStrict Relaxed Strict RelaxedP R F P R F Accuracy AccuracyTraining + Development 0.787 0.726 0.755 0.911 0.856 0.883 0.660 0.909Training 0.775 0.679 0.724 0.909 0.812 0.858 0.617 0.908Table 3: SemEval 2014 Task 7 evaluation results for our system.
Precision (P), recall (R) and F-measure (F) were measuredfor Task A while accuracy was measured for Task B.tance (Levenshtein, 1966) which is defined as theminimum number of edits needed to convert oneterm into another.
The edits are in the form of in-sertions, deletions and substitution of characters.For example, the term ?cyanotic?
can be convertedinto ?cyanosis?
in minimum two steps by substi-tuting ?t?
for ?s?
and ?c?
for ?s?, hence the Lev-enshtein edit distance between these terms is two.There is a fast dynamic programming based algo-rithm to compute this.
The algorithm also givesthe steps to change one term into another, whichfor the above example will be ?START SAME cSAME y SAME a SAME n SAME o SUBSTI-TUTE t/s SAME i SUBSTITUTE c/s END?.
Wewill call such a sequence of steps as an edit dis-tance pattern.Our method first computes edit distance pat-terns between all synonyms of the disorder con-cepts is UMLS6as well as between their men-tions in the training data and the correspondingtagged concepts in UMLS.
But these patterns arevery specific to the terms they are derived fromand will not directly apply to other terms.
Hencethese patterns are generalized next.
We define gen-eralization of two edit distance patterns as theirlargest contiguous common part that includes allthe edit operations of insertions, deletions and sub-stitutions (i.e.
generalization can only remove?SAME?, ?START?
and ?END?
steps).
For exam-ple, the generalized edit distance pattern of ?cyan-otic ?
cyanosis?
and ?thrombotic ?
thrombo-sis?
will be ?SAME o SUBSTITUTE t/s SAME iSUBSTITUTE c/s END?, essentially meaning thata term that ends with ?otic?
can be changed to end6Due to the large size of UMLS, we restricted to the sec-ond of the two concept files in the 2013 UMLS distribution.with ?osis?.
Our method generalizes every pair ofedit distance patterns as well as repeatedly furthergeneralizes every pair of generalization patterns.Not all generalization patterns may be good be-cause some may change the meaning of termswhen applied.
Hence our method also evaluatesthe goodness of these patterns by counting thenumber of positives and negatives.
When a pat-tern is applied to a UMLS term and the resultantterm has the same CUI then it is counted as a pos-itive.
But if the resultant term has a different CUIthen it is counted as a negative.
Our system heuris-tically only retains patterns that have the numberof positives more than the number of negatives andhave at least five positives.
Our method learned to-tal 554 edit distance patterns, Table 2 shows a fewillustrative ones.These patterns are used as follows to normalizedisease mentions.
When exact matching for a dis-ease mention in the training data and the UMLSfails, then our system generates its variations byapplying the learned edit distance patterns.
Thesevariations are then searched for exact matching inthe UMLS.
If even the variations fail to match thenthe variations of possible full-forms (according tothe abbreviation list) are tried, otherwise the men-tion is declared CUI-less.
Note that while ourmethod learns variations only for disorder men-tions, it is general and could be used to learn vari-ations for terms of other types.
Finally, because itis a learning method and it also learns variationsused in the training data, it is capable of learningvariations that are specific to the style or genre ofthe clinical notes that constitute the training data.We note that the problem of matching variationsis analogous to the duplicate detection problem830in database records (Bilenko and Mooney, 2003).But to the our best knowledge, no one has used anapproach to learn patterns of variations based onedit distances.
We used the edit-distance patternsonly for Task B in this work, in future we plan toalso use them in Task A for the features that in-volve matching with UMLS.3 ResultsThe organizers of the SemEval 2014 Task 7 pro-vided the training, the development and the testdata containing 199, 99 and 133 clinical notesrespectively that included de-identified dischargesummaries, electrocardiogram, echocardiogramand radiology reports (Pradhan et al., 2013).
Theextraction performance in Task A was evaluatedin terms of precision, recall and F-measure forstrict (exact boundaries) and relaxed (overlappingboundaries) settings.
The normalization perfor-mance in Task B was evaluated in terms of strictaccuracy (fraction of correct normalizations outof all gold-standard disease mentions) and relaxedaccuracy (fraction of correct normalizations out ofthe correct disease mentions extracted in Task A).Note that a system?s strict accuracy in Task B de-pends on its performance in Task A because if itmisses to extract a disease mention in Task A thenit will get zero score for its normalization.Table 3 shows the performance of our systemas determined through the official evaluation bythe organizers.
The systems were evaluated on thetest data when trained using both the training andthe development data as well as when trained us-ing just the training data.
When trained using boththe training and the development data, our teamranked third in Task A and second in Task B con-sidering the best run of each team if they submit-ted multiple runs.
The ranking was according tothe strict F-measure for Task A and according tothe strict accuracy for Task B.
When trained usingjust the training data, our team ranked second inTask A and first in Task B.We also performed ablation study to determinethe contribution of different components of oursystem towards its performance.
Since the gold-standard annotations for the test data were notmade available to the participants, we used the de-velopment data for testing for the ablation study.Table 4 shows the results (strict) for Task A whenvarious groups of features (shown in Table 1) areexcluded one at a time.
It can be noted that lex-ical group of features were most important with-Features P R FAll 0.829 0.673 0.743All - Lexical 0.779 0.569 0.658All - Semantic 0.824 0.669 0.738All - MetaMap 0.810 0.648 0.720All - Lemmatization 0.825 0.666 0.737All - Abbreviations 0.828 0.668 0.740Table 4: Ablation study results for Task A showing how theperformance is affected by excluding various feature groups(shown in Table 1).
Development data was used for testing.Only strict precision (P), recall (R) and F-measure (F) areshown.Component AccuracyTraining 78.1UMLS 83.8Training + UMLS 88.8Training + Patterns 86.3UMLS + Patterns 85.2Training + UMLS + Patterns 89.5Table 5: Performance on Task B obtained by combinationsof exactly matching the mentions in the training data, exactlymatching in the UMLS and using learned edit distance pat-terns for approximately matching in the UMLS.
Developmentdata was used for testing with gold-standard disease men-tions.out which the performance drops significantly.MetaMap matches were the next most importantgroup of features.
Each of the remaining featuregroups improves the performance by only smallamount.Table 5 shows the performance on Task B whendisease mentions are exactly matched in the train-ing data, exactly matched in the UMLS and ap-proximately matched in the UMLS using edit dis-tance patterns, as well as their combinations.
Inorder to evaluate the performance of our systemon Task B independent of its performance on TaskA, we used gold-standard disease mentions in thedevelopment data as input for Task B in whichcase the strict and relaxed accuracies are equal.
Itmay be noted that adding edit distance patterns im-proves the performance in each case.4 ConclusionsWe participated in the SemEval 2014 Task 7of disorder mention extraction and normalizationfrom clinical text.
Our system used conditionalrandom fields as the learning method for the ex-traction task with various lexical, semantic andMetaMap based features.
We introduced a newmethod to do approximate matching for normal-ization that learns general patterns of variationsusing edit distances.
Our system performed com-petitively on both the tasks.831ReferencesAlan R Aronson.
2001.
Effective mapping of biomed-ical text to the UMLS Metathesaurus: the MetaMapprogram.
In Proceedings of the AMIA Symposium,page 17.
American Medical Informatics Associa-tion.Mikhail Bilenko and Raymond J Mooney.
2003.Adaptive duplicate detection using learnable stringsimilarity measures.
In Proceedings of the ninthACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowl-edge discovery and data mining, pages 39?48.ACM.John Lafferty, Andrew McCallum, and FernandoPereira.
2001.
Conditional Random Fields: Prob-abilistic models for segmenting and labeling se-quence data.
In Proceedings of 18th InternationalConference on Machine Learning (ICML-2001),pages 282?289, Williamstown, MA.Vladimir I Levenshtein.
1966.
Binary codes capableof correcting deletions, insertions and reversals.
InSoviet physics doklady, volume 10, page 707.Naoaki Okazaki.
2007.
CRFsuite: A fast imple-mentation of Conditional Random Fields (CRFs),http://www.chokkan.org/software/crfsuite/.Sameer Pradhan, Noemie Elhadad, B South, DavidMartinez, Lee Christensen, Amy Vogel, HannaSuominen, W Chapman, and Guergana Savova.2013.
Task 1: ShARe/CLEF eHealth EvaluationLab 2013.
Online Working Notes of CLEF, CLEF,230.Hua Xu, Peter D Stetson, and Carol Friedman.
2012.Combining corpus-derived sense profiles with esti-mated frequency information to disambiguate clini-cal abbreviations.
In AMIA Annual Symposium Pro-ceedings, volume 2012, page 1004.
American Med-ical Informatics Association.832
