Proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval 2014), pages 773?778,Dublin, Ireland, August 23-24, 2014.UO UA: Using Latent Semantic Analysis to Build a Domain-DependentSentiment ResourceReynier OrtegaAdrian FonsecaCarlos Mu?nizCERPAMIDAve Patricio Lumumba, S/NSantigo de Cuba, Cubareynier.ortega@cerpamid.co.cuadrian@cerpamid.co.cuYoan Guti?errezAndr?es MontoyoDLSI, University of AlicanteCarretera de San Vicente, S/NAlicante, Spainygutierrez@dlsi.ua.esmontoyo@dlsi.ua.esAbstractIn this paper we present our contribution toSemEval-2014 Task 4: Aspect Based Sen-timent Analysis (Pontiki et al., 2014), Sub-task 2: Aspect Term Polarity for Laptopdomain.
The most outstanding feature inthis contribution is the automatic buildingof a domain-depended sentiment resourceusing Latent Semantic Analysis.
We in-duce, for each term, two real scores that in-dicate its use in positive and negative con-texts in the domain of interest.
The aspectterm polarity classification is carried outin two phases: opinion words extractionand polarity classification.
The opinionwords related with an aspect are obtainedusing dependency relations.
These rela-tions are provided by the Stanford Parser1.Finally, the polarity of the feature, in agiven review, is determined from the pos-itive and negative scores of each word re-lated to it.
The results obtained by our ap-proach are encouraging if we consider thatthe construction of the polarity lexicon isperformed fully automatically.1 IntroductionHundreds of millions of people and thousandsof companies around the world, actively use So-cial Media2.
Every day are more amazing web-sites and applications (Facebook, Twitter, MyS-pace, Amazon, etc.)
that allow the easy sharingof information in near real time.
For this rea-son, at present, the Web is flooded with subjec-tive, personal and affective data.
Mining this hugeThis work is licensed under a Creative Commons At-tribution 4.0 International Licence.
Page numbers and pro-ceedings footer are added by the organisers.
Licence details:http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/1http://nlp.stanford.edu:8080/parser/2http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social mediavolume of information offer both interesting chal-lenges and useful intelligent applications such asrecommendation systems (Dong et al., 2013; Sunet al., 2009) and customer?s reviews summariza-tion (Bafna and Toshniwal, 2013; Balahur andMontoyo, 2008).Nowadays, companies have redirected theirmarketing strategies toward the Web.
Each oneof them advertises that their products are the best,amazing, easy to use, long lasting and cheap.
Butare these advertisements really true?
Obviously,not everything is true.
The companies usually ex-aggerate the product?s quality and in many casestend not to advertise the limitations of their prod-ucts.
Therefore, taking a rational decision aboutwhich product is the best among the variety of ex-isting options can be very stressful.To avoid this situation, frequently we trust inthe experiences gained by others who have pur-chased the product of our interest, or one similar.The existence of websites like Ciao3, Epinions4and Cnet5make possible to the customers to inter-change their experiences about a specific product,and to future clients avoid products advertisingHowever, the existence of a large volume of re-views entails that it is impossible to conduct aneffective exploration before making a final deci-sion.
The most important benefit of having thatamount of user-generated content on hand, specif-ically product?s reviews, is that, these data can beexplored by a computer system to obtain informa-tion about products and their features.The task of aspect-based sentiment analysis(Liu, 2012) is a fine-grained level of SentimentAnalysis (Pang and Lee, 2008).
This aim to iden-tify the aspects (e.g., battery, screen, food, ser-vice, size, weight, time-life) of given target entities3www.ciao.com4www.epinions.com5www.cnet.com773(e.g., laptops, restaurants, camera) and the senti-ment expressed towards each aspect (e.g., positive,negative, neutral).
This are composed by two ba-sic phases: feature extraction and feature polarityclassification.In this paper we present our contribution forSemEval-2014 Task 4: Aspect Based SentimentAnalysis (Pontiki et al., 2014), Subtask 2: AspectTerm Polarity.
In this approach we only focus onthe polarity classification problem.
For this, weinduce a domain-dependent sentiment lexicon ap-plying Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA) on prod-uct reviews corpus, gathered from Ciao.
The clas-sification phase is carried out as follow: the opin-ion words related with the product aspect are drawout using the dependency relations provided byStanford Parser, then the polarity of the extractedwords are combined to obtain overall aspect polar-ity.The paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 de-scribes our approach.
Further on, in Section 3, wediscuss the results obtained in the SemEval 2014Task No.
4 subtask 2.
Finally, section 4 providesconcluding remarks.2 UO UA SystemOne of major challenge in sentiment analysis intoproduct reviews, is dealing with a quite domain de-pendence.
For instance, the word ?unpredictable?can be considered as positive in Movie domain,however it is very negative in Airplane domain.For this reason, we propose to create a specificsentiment lexicon for addressing aspect based sen-timent analysis in reviews.Our proposal is divided in two main phases.
Thefirst one aims to build a domain-dependent senti-ment resource for Laptop domain applying LSA.The second phase obtains the words related bymeans of some dependency relation with the as-pect, and later, the polarity of these words areobtained from induced polarity lexicon and com-bined for computing overall aspect polarity.2.1 Domain-Dependent Polarity LexiconThe use of sentiment resource has been provento be useful to build, train, and evaluate systemsfor sentiment analysis (Guti?errez et al., 2013; Bal-ahur, 2011).
In order to build sentiment resource,several approach has been presented.
In one ofthe first works, presented by (Hatzivassiloglou andMcKeown, 1997), was proposed to take into ac-count if adjectives are linked by adversative orcopulative conjunctions for detecting its polarity.In (Turney and Littman, 2003) the authors exposeda method for inferring the semantic orientation ofa word from its statistical association with a setof positive and negative paradigm words, mea-sured by point-wise mutual information (PMI).
In(2004), Hu and Liu suggested a technique to ex-pand the lexicon using the relations of synonymyand antonym provided by WordNet (Fellbaum,1998).
In (2009), Cruz et al., created a sentimentresource based on a graph, constructed from con-junctive expressions between pairs of adjectives,observed in a review corpus.
PageRank algorithm(Page et al., 1999) was adapted to be used ongraphs with positive and negative edges, in orderto obtain the semantic orientation of words.Despite the wide range of existing proposalsfor resources construction, the results achievedwith them are far from expected.
As we havealready seen, in aspect based sentiment analy-sis, the polarity of a word is heavily dependenton the domain; and general propose sentimentresource such as General Inquirer (Stone et al.,1966), WordNet-Affect(Strapparava and Valitutti,2004), SentiWordNet(Baccianella et al., 2010) orHowNet (Dong et al., 2010) do not capture thisdependency.
On the other hand, the human anno-tators can not create specific sentiment resourcesfor each new product launched to market.
There-fore, propose methods to create these resources isa challenging task.In this paper we address this task, presenting aframework for building domain-dependent senti-ment resource.
Our proposal is compounded offour phases.
(See figure 1).Firstly, review pages about the product of in-terest can be retrieved from different websites, forinstance, Ciao, Epinions and Cnet (in this workwe only use reviews from Ciao).
This reviewsare parsed and cleaned (this time we use PythonXML Parser6).
For each page we extract: pros,cons, title, full review and rating.
In this work wehave only focus on the pros and cons attributes be-cause they are usually very brief, consist of shortphrases or sentence segments and give a positiveand negative evaluation about the product aspects.Each pros and cons in remainder paper will beconsidered as positive and negative samples, re-spectively.6https://docs.python.org/2/library/xml.html774Figure 1: Building domain-dependent sentimentresource.Subsequently, the samples are preprocessed,applying a POS-Tagging tool (Padr?o andStanilovsky, 2012) to convert all words in lem-mas.
After that, the stopwords are removedfrom text.
Afterward each sample is representedusing the classic vector space model (Salton etal., 1975).
Intending to measure the associationbetween term and class we add a special term tothe vectors.
In positive samples the term tposisadded whereas in the negative samples the termtnegis aggregated.Later, we apply a Latent Semantic Analysis(this time we use, Gensim python package) to cal-culate the strength of the semantic association be-tween words and classes.
LSA uses the SingularValue Decomposition (SVD) to analyze the statis-tical relationships among words in a corpus.The first step is construct a matrix Mn?m, inwhich the row vectors virepresent lemmas and thecolumn vectors sithe positive and negative sample(pros and cons).
In each cell tij, we have the TFscore (Term Frequency) of the ithlemma in jthsample.
The next step is apply Singular Value De-composition to matrix Mn?mto decompose it intoa product of three matrices U?VT, then, we selectthe k largest singular values, and their correspond-ing singular vectors from U and V , obtained anapproximation?M = Uk?kVTkof rank k to orig-inal matrix Mn?m.
After LSA is performed, weuse the new matrix?M to measure the associationbetween lemmas liand ljcomputing the cosinemeasure between vectors viand vj, with the equa-tion 1.LSAscore(li, lj) =< vi, vj>?
vi?
?
?
vj?
(1)Finally, the polarity lexicon contains lemmasliand its positive and negative scores.
This val-ues are computed using LSAscore(li, tpos) andLSAscore(li, tneg) respectively.
The table 1 showsome top positive and negative words computedwith this strategy.Positive Score Negative Scoresturdy 0.8249 prone 0.8322superb 0.7293 weak 0.8189durable 0.7074 disaster 0.8120sexy 0.6893 erm 0.8118powerfull 0.6700 ill 0.8107robust 0.6686 uncomfortable 0.8084affordable 0.6630 noisy 0.7917suuupeerrr 0.6550 overwhelm 0.7514lighweight 0.6550 unsturdy 0.7491unbreakable 0.6542 lousy 0.7143Table 1: Examples of positive and negative words.With aim to do our contribution to SemEval-2014, Task 4: Aspect Based Sentiment Analysis(Pontiki et al., 2014), Subtask 2: Aspect Term Po-larity, we gathered 3010 Laptop Reviews, fromCiao and create a corpus with 6020 samples, 3010positives (Pros) and 3010 negatives (Cons).
Thiscorpus was used as input in the developed frame-work (See figure 1).
In this time we utilize Freel-ing7as POS-Tagging tool and Gensim PythonPackages8to perform LSA (only the most 100most significant eigenvalue are used).
After that,a domain-dependent sentiment resource (DLSR)with 4482 term was created for Laptop reviews.2.2 Aspect Polarity ClassificationIn order to exploit our domain-dependent senti-ment resource building for Laptop domain, we de-velop an unsupervised method based on languagerule to classify the product aspect.
The basic rulesare used to find dependency relation between as-pect and their attributes.
The figure 2 show thearchitecture of our proposal.The proposed method receive as input a tuple(Pfeature, R), where Pfeaturerepresent the aspectto evaluate, and R is the context (review) in it ap-pears.7http://nlp.lsi.upc.edu/freeling/8https://pypi.python.org/pypi/gensim775Figure 2: Apect polarity classification.The dependency parsed is applied to review R,using Stanford Parser.
Following that, we extracta set of tuples W , each tuple is represented as apair (Att,Mod) where Att is a word related withthe aspect Pfeaturethrough some dependency re-lations shown in Table 2, and Mod is a integervalue indicating if Att is modified by a valenceshifter (Polanyi and Zaenen, 2004), (we only con-sider negation words, e.g., never, no, not, don?t,nothing, etc.)
, and default value of 0 is assign, incase that, the Att is modified by a valence shifter,we assign value of -1.Dependency relationsmod subj nsubjamod csub csubpassadvmod obj dobjvmod iobj pobjrcmod npadvmod nnsubj xcomp advclTable 2: Stanford Parser dependency relations.Once, the set of pairs W was obtained, the po-larity of the feature Pfeatureis determined fromthe scores of the attributes (related words) that de-scribe it.
To sum up, for each pair (Att,Mod) ?W , the positive Pos((Att,Mod)) and negativeNeg((Att,Mod)) scores are calculated as:Neg((Att,Mod)) ={?N(Att) if Mod < 0N(Att) otherwise(2)Pos((Att,Mod)) ={?P (Att) if Mod < 0P (Att) otherwise(3)Where P (Att) and N(Att) are the positive andnegative score for Att in domain-dependent senti-ment resource DLSR.Finally, the global positive and negative scores(SOpos, SOneg) are calculated as:SOpos(Pfeature) =?w?WPos(w) (4)SOneg(Pfeature) =?w?WNeg(w) (5)If SOposis greater than SOnegthen the aspect isconsidered as positive.
On the contrary, if SOposis less than SOnegthe aspect is negative.
Finally,if SOposis equal to SOnegthe aspect is consideredas neutral.3 ResultsIn this section we present the evaluation of oursystem in the context of SemEval-2014, Task 4:Aspect Based Sentiment Analysis (Pontiki et al.,2014), Subtask 2: Aspect Term Polarity.
Forevaluating the participant?s system two unlabeleddomain-specific datasets for laptops and restau-rants were distributed.
For each dataset two runscan be submitted, the first (constrained), the sys-tem can only be used the provided training dataand other resources such as lexicons.
In the sec-ond (unconstrained), the system can use additionaldata for training.
We send one run for laptopdataset and it only use external data retrieved fromCiao website (the training data was not used) (un-constrained).The results achieve by our method are illustratein Table 3.
As may be observed, the accuracyLabel Pr Rc F1conflict 0.0 0.0 0.0negative 0,5234 0,3764 0,4379neutral 0,4556 0,4074 0,4302positive 0,6364 0,7561 0,6911Accuracy 0.55198777Table 3: Results in aspect polarity classificationfor laptop dataset.achieve by UA OU was 0.55, and F1 measure fornegative, neutral and positive were 0,4379, 0,4302and 0,6911 respectively.
In case of conflict polar-ity we reached a 0.0 F1 value because our systemnot handle this situation.
For this subtask (Laptopdomain) a total of 32 runs was submitted by all776systems participant?s and our run was ranked as25th.
The results despite not achieving expected,are encouraging.
These evidence the feasibility ofbuilding resources from data available on the web,for aspect-based sentiment analysis.4 ConclusionsIn this article, we presented and evaluated theapproach considered for our participation inSemEval-2014 Task 4: Aspect Based SentimentAnalysis (Pontiki et al., 2014), Subtask 2: AspectTerm Polarity, specifically for Laptop Domain.We present a framework for building domain-dependent sentiment resources applying LatentSemantic Analysis and build a special resource forpolarity classification in Laptop domain.
This re-source was combined into unsupervised method tocompute the polarity associated to different aspectin reviews.
The results obtained by our approachare encouraging if we consider that the construc-tion of the polarity lexicon is performed fully au-tomatically.AcknowledgementsThis research work has been partially funded bythe University of Alicante, Generalitat Valenciana,Spanish Government and the European Com-mission through the projects, ?Tratamiento in-teligente de la informaci?on para la ayuda a la tomade decisiones?
(GRE12-44), ATTOS (TIN2012-38536-C03-03), LEGOLANG (TIN2012-31224),SAM (FP7-611312), FIRST (FP7-287607) andACOMP/2013/067.ReferencesStefano Baccianella, Andrea Esuli, and Fabrizio Se-bastiani.
2010.
SentiWordnet 3.0: An enhancedlexical resource for sentiment analysis and opinionmining.
Proceedings of the Seventh InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation,LREC ?10, Valletta, Malta, May.Kushal Bafna and Durga Toshniwal.
2013.
Fea-ture based summarization of customers?
reviewsof online products.
Procedia Computer Science,22(0):142 ?
151.
17th International Conference inKnowledge Based and Intelligent Information andEngineering Systems - KES2013.Alexandra Balahur and Andr?es Montoyo.
2008.
Mul-tilingual feature-driven opinion extraction and sum-marization from customer reviews.
In Epaminon-das Kapetanios, Vijayan Sugumaran, and MyraSpiliopoulou, editors, Natural Language and Infor-mation Systems, volume 5039 of Lecture Notes inComputer Science, pages 345?346.
Springer BerlinHeidelberg.Alexandra Balahur.
2011.
Methods and Resourcesfor Sentiment Analysis in Multilingual Documentsof Different Text Types.
Ph.D. thesis, Departmentof Software and Computing Systems.
Alcalant, Al-calant University.Ferm?
?n Cruz, Jos?e Antonio Troyano, Francisco JavierOrtega, and Carlos Garc?
?a Vallejo.
2009.
In-ducci?on de un lexic?on de opini?on orientado al do-minio.
Procesamiento del Lenguaje Natural, 43:5?12.Zhendong Dong, Qiang Dong, and Changling Hao.2010.
HowNet and its computation of meaning.
InProceedings of the 23rd International Conference onComputational Linguistics: Demonstrations, COL-ING?10, pages 53?56, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Ruihai Dong, Markus Schaal, Michael P. O?Mahony,Kevin McCarthy, and Barry Smyth.
2013.
Opinion-ated product recommendation.
In Sarah Jane Delanyand Santiago Onta?n?on, editors, Case-Based Rea-soning Research and Development, volume 7969 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 44?58.Springer Berlin Heidelberg.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: An Elec-tronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press.Yoan Guti?errez, Andy Gonz?alez, Roger P?erez, Jos?eAbreu, Antonio Fern?andez Orqu?
?n, Alejandro Mos-quera, Andr?es Montoyo, Rafael Mu?noz, and FrancCamara.
2013.
UMCC DLSI-(SA): Using a rank-ing algorithm and informal features to solve senti-ment analysis in Twitter.
Atlanta, Georgia, USA,page 443.Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Kathleen McKeown.1997.
Predicting the semantic orientation of adjec-tives.
In Proceedings of the Joint ACL/EACL Con-ference, pages 174?181.Minqing Hu and Bing Liu.
2004.
Mining opinion fea-tures in customer reviews.
In Proceedings of AAAI,pages 755?760.Bing Liu.
2012.
Sentiment Analysis and Opinion Min-ing.
Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Tech-nologies, 5(1):1?167.Llu?
?s Padr?o and Evgeny Stanilovsky.
2012.
Freel-ing 3.0: Towards wider multilinguality.
Proceed-ings of the Eight International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC?12), Istan-bul, Turkey, May.
European Language ResourcesAssociation (ELRA).Lawrence Page, Sergey Brin, Rajeev Motwani, andTerry Winograd.
1999.
The PagerRank CitationRanking: Bringing Order to the Web.777Bo Pang and Lillian Lee.
2008.
Opinion Mining andSentiment Analysis.Livia Polanyi and Annie Zaenen.
2004.
Contextuallexical valence shifters.
In Yan Qu, James Shana-han, and Janyce Wiebe, editors, Proceedings of theAAAI Spring Symposium on Exploring Attitude andAffect in Text: Theories and Applications.
AAAIPress.
AAAI technical report SS-04-07.Maria Pontiki, Dimitrios Galanis, John Pavlopou-los, Harris Papageorgiou, Ion Androutsopoulos, andSuresh Manandhar.
2014.
Semeval-2014 task 4:Aspect Based Sentiment Analysis.
In InternationalWorkshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval), 2014.Gerard Salton, Andrew Wong, and Chung Shu Yang.1975.
A vector space model for automatic indexing.Communications of the ACM, 18(11):613?620.Philip James Stone, Dexter Colboyd Dunphy, MarshallSmith, and Daniel Ogilvie.
1966.
The General In-quirer: A Computer Approach to Content Analysis.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Carlo Strapparava and Alessandro Valitutti.
2004.WordNet-Affect: an affective extension of Word-Net.
In In Proceedings of the 4th InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation,LREC, pages 1083?1086, Lisbon, Portugal, May26-28.
European Language Resources Association.Jianshu Sun, Chong Long, Xiaoyan Zhu, and MinlieHuang.
2009.
Mining reviews for product compar-ison and recommendation.
Polibits, pages 33 ?
40,06.Peter Turney and Michael Lederman Littman.
2003.Measuring praise and criticism: Inference of seman-tic orientation from association.
ACM Transactionson Information Systems (TOIS), 21(4):315?346.778
