Proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval 2014), pages 596?600,Dublin, Ireland, August 23-24, 2014.Supervised Methods for Aspect-Based Sentiment AnalysisHussam Hamdan*,**,****LSISAix-Marseille Universit?
CNRSAv.
Esc.
Normandie Niemen,13397 Marseille Cedex 20,Francehussam.hamdan@lsis.orgPatrice Bellot*,****OpenEditionAix-Marseille Universit?
CNRS3 pl.
V. Hugo, case n?8613331 Marseille Cedex 3,Francepatrice.bellot@lsis.orgFrederic B?chet******LIFAix-Marseille Universit?
CNRSAvenue de Luminy13288 Marseille Cedex 9,Francefrederic.bechet@lif.univ-mrs.frAbstractIn this paper, we present our contribution inSemEval2014 ABSA task, some supervisedmethods for Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis ofrestaurant and laptop reviews are proposed, im-plemented and evaluated.
We focus on determin-ing the aspect terms existing in each sentence,finding out their polarities, detecting the catego-ries of the sentence and the polarity of each cate-gory.
The evaluation results of our proposedmethods exhibit a significant improvement interms of accuracy and f-measure over all foursubtasks regarding to the baseline proposed bySemEval organisers.1 IntroductionThe increasing amount of user-generated textualdata has increased the need of efficient tech-niques for analysing it.
Sentiment Analysis (SA)has become more and more interesting since theyear 2000 (Liu 2012), many techniques in Natu-ral Language Processing have been used to un-derstand the expressed sentiment on an entity.Many levels of granularity have been also distin-guished: Document Level SA considers thewhole document is about an entity and classifieswhether the expressed sentiment is positive, neg-ative or neutral; Sentence Level SA determinesthe sentiment of each sentence, some works havebeen done on Clause Level SA but they are stillnot enough; Entity or Aspect-Based SA performsfiner-grained analysis in which all entities andThis work is licensed under a Creative Commons At-tribution 4.0 International Licence.
Page numbers andproceedings footer are added by the organisers.
Li-cence details:http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/their aspects should be extracted and the senti-ment on them should also be determined.Aspect-Based SA task consists of several sub-problems, the document is about many entitieswhich could be for example a restaurant, a lap-top, a printer.
Users may refer to an entity bydifferent writings but normally there are not a lotof variations to indicate the same entity, eachentity has many aspects which could be its partsor attributes, some aspects could be another enti-ty such as screen of laptop, but most works didnot take this case into account.
Therefore, wecould define the opinion by the quintuple (Liu2012) (ei, aij, sijkl, hk, tl) where ei is the entity i, aijare the aspects of the entity i,  sijkl  is the ex-pressed sentiment on the aspect at the time tl, hkthe holder which created the document or thetext.This definition does not take into account that theentity has aspects that could have also other as-pects which leads to an aspect hierarchy, in orderto avoid this information loss, few works havehandled this issue, they proposed to represent theaspect as a tree of aspect terms (Wei and Gulla2010; Kim, Zhang et al.
2013).Supervised and unsupervised methods have beenused for handling this task, in this paper, we pro-pose supervised methods and test them over twodatasets related to laptop reviews and restaurantreviews provided by the ABSA task ofSemEval2014 (Pontiki, Galanis et al.
2014).
Wetackle four subtasks:1.
Aspect term extraction: CRF model isproposed.2.
Aspect Term Polarity Detection:Multinomial Naive-Bayes classifier withsome features such as Z-score, POS andprior polarity extracted from Subjectivity596Lexicon (Wilson, Wiebe et al.
2005) andBing Liu's Opinion Lexicon1.3.
Category Detection:Z-score model for category detection hasbeen used.4.
Category Polarity Detection:The same model proposed for aspectterm polarity detection has been adopted.2 Related worksSeveral methods concerning the ABSA havebeen proposed, some of them are supervised, andothers unsupervised.
The earliest work on aspectdetection from on-line reviews presented by Huand Liu used association rule mining based onApriori algorithm to extract frequent nounphrases as product features, they used two seedsets of 30 positive and negative adjectives, thenWordNet has been used to find and add the seedwords synonyms.
Infrequent aspects had beenprocessed by finding the noun related to an opin-ionated word (Hu and Liu 2004).Opinion Digger (Moghaddam and Ester 2010)used also Apriori algorithm to extract the fre-quent aspects then it filters the non-aspects byapplying a constraint -learned from the trainingdata- on the extracted aspects.
KNN algorithm isapplied to estimate the aspect rating scaling from1 to 5 stands for (Excellent, Good, Average,Poor, Terrible), assuming that the sentiment isexpressed by the nearest adjectives to the aspectterm in the sentence segment, WordNet is usedfor finding the synonyms of sentiment word inorder to use them to estimate the distance be-tween it and the words of rating scale.Some unsupervised methods based on LDA(Latent Dirichlet allocation) were proposed.Brody and Elhadad used LDA to find the as-pects, determined the number of topics by apply-ing a clustering method (Brody and Elhadad2010), then they used a similar method proposedby Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown(Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown 1997) to extractthe conjunctive adjectives but not the disjunctivedue to the specificity of the domain, seed setswere used and assigned scores, these scores werepropagated using propagation method throughthe aspect-sentiment graph building from thepairs of aspect and related adjectives.Other works make one LDA based model forthe aspect and sentiment extraction.
Lin and He1http://www.cs.uic.edu/~liub/FBS/sentiment-analysis.html#lexicon(Lin and He 2009)proposed Joint model of Sen-timent and Topic (JST) which extends the state-of-the-art topic model, Latent Dirichlet Alloca-tion (LDA) by adding a sentiment layer, thismodel is fully unsupervised and it can detect sen-timent and topic simultaneously.Wei and Gulla (Wei and Gulla 2010) modelledthe hierarchical relation between product aspects.They defined SOT Sentiment Ontology Tree toformulate the knowledge of hierarchical relation-ships among product attributes and tackle theproblem of sentiment analysis as a hierarchicalclassification problem.
Unsupervised hierarchicalaspectSentiment model (HASM) was proposed by Kimet al (Kim, Zhang et al.
2013) to discover a hier-archical structure of aspect-based sentimentsfrom unlabelled online reviews.Supervised methods uses normally a CRF orHMM models.
Jin and Ho (Jin and Ho 2009)applied a lexicalized HMM model to extract as-pects using the words and their part-of-speechtags in order to learn a model, then unsupervisedalgorithm for determining the aspect sentimentusing the nearest opinion word to the aspect andtaking into account the polarity reversal words(such as not).
CRF model was used by Jakob andGurevych (Jakob and Gurevych 2010) with thesefeatures: tokens, POS tags, syntactic dependency(if the aspect has a relation with the opinionatedword), word distance (the distance between theword in the closest noun phrase and the opinion-ated word), and opinion sentences (each token inthe sentence containing an opinionated expres-sion is labelled by this feature), the input of thismethod is also the opinionated expressions, theyuse these expressions for predicting the aspectsentiment using the dependency parsing for re-trieving the pair aspect-expression from the train-ing set.Our method for aspect extraction is closed to(Jakob and Gurevych 2010), where we used CRFmodel with different features for aspect extrac-tion, but another method for sentiment detection.The second and fourth subtasks are concerningthe polarity detection, so besides to all previousdiscussed works, we can handle them as sentencelevel SA.
We choose to use Multinomial NaiveBayes with some features (POS, Z-score, pre-polarity).
The most related work is (Hamdan,B?chet et al.
2013) where they used Naive Bayswith WordNet, DBpedia and SentiWordNet fea-tures.5973 The SystemOur system is composed of four subtasks:3.1 Subtask1: Aspect Terms ExtractionThe objective of this subtask is to extract allaspect terms in the review sentence, aspect termscould be a word or multiple words.
For this pur-pose we have used CRF (Conditional RandomField) which have been used for information ex-traction.
We choose the IOB notation, thereforewe distinguish the terms at the Beginning, theInside and the Outside of aspect term expression.Then, we propose 16 features, for each term weextract the following features:- Its root (Porter Stemmer);- Its POS tag;-The stemming roots for all three words beforeand after the term;-The POS tags for all three words before andafter the term;- A feature indicates if the word starts withcapital letter;-A feature indicates if the word is capitalised.For example, for this review ?But the staff wasso horrible to us.?
Where staff is the aspect term,the target of each word will be:But:O the:O staff:B was:O so:O horrible:O to:Ous:O.3.2 Subtask2: Aspect Term Polarity DetectionThis subtask can be seen as sentence level orphrase level sentiment Analysis, the first step (1)we should detect the context or the words relatedto the aspect term, then to compute its polarityaccording to these words.
Dependency parsingcould be used to determine these words or simpledistance function.
We extract the context of as-pect term according to the syntax and other as-pect terms.
Therefore, the context is the term it-self and all the surrounding terms enclosed be-tween two separators (commas in general), ifanother aspect is also enclosed by these separa-tors we consider it as a separator instead of thecomma, and we do not take the terms after it orbefore it (according to its direction to the aspectterm).
If the sentence has only an aspect term theseparators will be the beginning and the end ofthe sentence.
For example, for this review ?Ittook half an hour to get our check, which wasperfect since we could sit, have drinks and talk!
?where we have two aspect terms drinks andcheck, the context of check will be ?It took halfan hour to get our check?
and the context ofdrinks will be ?have drinks and talk!?.
Anotherexample, ?All the money went into the interiordecoration, none of it went to the chefs.?
Thecontext for interior decoration will be ?All themoney went into the interior decoration?
and thecontext for chefs will be ?none of it went to thechefs?.The second step (2) we should determine thepolarity, which could be positive, negative, neu-tral or conflict.
We propose to use MultinomialNaive-Bayes for learning a classifier based ondifferent features:- The terms in the sentence (term frequency);- The POS features (the number of adjectives,adverbs, verbs, nouns, connectors)- The pre-polarity features (the number of pos-itive and negative words in the sentence ex-tracted from Subjectivity lexicon and BingLiu's Opinion Lexicon);- Z-score features (the number of words whichhave Z-score more than three in each senti-ment class),  Z_score  is described in 3.3.3.3 Subtask3: Category DetectionDetermining the categories of each sentencecan be seen as a multi-label classification prob-lem at sentence level.We propose to use Z-score which is capable ofdistinguishing the importance of a term in a cate-gory.
The more the term is important in a catego-ry the more its Z-score is high in this categoryand low in other categories in which it is not im-portant.
Thus, we compute the Z-score for allterms using the annotated data, then for eachgiven sentence, the sum of Z-score over eachcategory is computed if the Z-score of term in acategory is less than zero, we ignore it in thiscategory because it is not important, the sentencewill be attributed to the category having thehighest Z-score, if some categories have thesame Z-scores the sentence will be attributed tothe both.
The algorithm steps:For each tem t in the sentence:For each category c:If z-score(t,c)>0:Z_sc[c]+= z-score(t,c)Categories=max(Z_sc)We assume that the term frequency follows themultinomial distribution.
Thus, Z_score can beseen as a standardization of the term frequency.We compute Z score for each term ti in a class Cj(tij) by calculating its term relative frequency tfrijin a particular class Cj, as well as the mean598(meani) which is the term probability over thewhole corpus multiplied by nj the number ofterms in the class Cj, and standard deviation (sdi)of term ti according to the underlying corpus (seeEq.
(1,2)).Z??????????
=??????????????
Eq.
(1)Z??????????
=??????????(??)?????(??)?(???(??))Eq.
(2)Z_score was exploited for SA by (Zubaryevaand Savoy 2010), they choose a threshold (Z>2)for selecting the number of terms having Z_scoremore than the threshold, then they used a logisticregression for combining these scores.
We useZ_score as added features for multinomial NaiveBayes classifier.3.4 Subtask4:  Category Polarity DetectionWe have used Multinomial Naive-Bayes as inthe subtask2 step (2) with the same features, butthe different that we add also the name of thecategory as a feature.
Thus, for each sentencehaving n category we add n examples to thetraining set, the difference between them is thefeature of the category.4 Experiments and EvaluationsWe tested our system using the training and test-ing data provided by SemEval 2014 ABSA task.Two data sets were provided; the first con-tains3Ksentences of restaurant reviews annotatedby the aspect terms, their polarities, their catego-ries, the polarities of each category.
The secondcontains of 3K sentences of laptop reviews anno-tated just by the aspect terms, their polarities.The evaluation process was done in two steps.First step is concerning the subtasks 1 and 3which involves the aspect terms extraction andcategory detection, we were provided with res-taurant review and laptop review sentences andwe had to extract the aspect terms for both datasets and the categories for the restaurant one.Baseline methods were provided; Table1 demon-strates the results of these subtasks in terms ofprecision P, recall R and f-measure F for our sys-tem and the baseline2.We remark that our system is 24% and 21%above the baseline for aspect terms extraction inrestaurant and laptop reviews respectively, and2http://alt.qcri.org/semeval2014/task4/data/uploads/baselinesystemdescription.pdfabove 3% for category detection in restaurantreviews.Data subtask  P R FRes 1 Baseline 0,52 0,42 0,47System 0.81 0.63 0.713 Baseline 0,73 0,59 0,65System 0.77 0.60 0.68Lap 1 Baseline 0,44 0,29 0,35System 0.76 0.45 0.56Table 1.
Results of subtask 1, 2 for restaurant reviews, sub-task 1 for laptop reviewsThe second step involves the evaluation ofsubtask 2 and 4, we were provided with(1) res-taurant review sentences annotated by their as-pect terms, and categories, we had to determinethe polarity for each aspect term and category;(2) laptop review sentences annotated by aspectterms and we had to determine the aspect termpolarity.
Table 2 demonstrates the results of oursystem and the baseline (A: accuracy, R: numberof true retrieved examples, All: number of alltrue examples).Data subtask  R All ARes 2 Baseline 673 1134 0,64System 818 1134 0.724 Baseline 673 1025 0,65System 739 1025 0.72Lap 2 Baseline 336 654 0,51System 424 654 0,64Table 2.
Results of subtask 2, 4 for restaurant reviews, sub-task 2 for laptop reviewsWe remark that our system is 8% and 13% abovethe baseline for aspect terms polarity detection inrestaurant and laptop reviews respectively, and7% above for category polarity detection in res-taurant reviews.5 ConclusionWe have built a system for Aspect-Based Sen-timent Analysis; we proposed different super-vised methods for the four sub-tasks.
Our resultsare always above the baseline proposed by theorganiser of SemEval.
We proposed to use CRFfor aspect term extraction, Z-score model for cat-egory detection, Multinomial Naive-Bayes withsome new features for polarity detection.
Wefind that the use of Z-score is useful for the cate-gory and polarity detection, we are going to testit in another sentiment analysis tasks of anotherdomains.599ReferenceSamuel Brody and Noemie Elhadad (2010).
Anunsupervised aspect-sentiment model foronline reviews.
Human LanguageTechnologies: The 2010 Annual Conferenceof the North American Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Los Angeles, California, Association forComputational Linguistics: 804-812.Hussam Hamdan,Frederic B?chet and Patrice Bellot(2013).
Experiments with DBpedia,WordNet and SentiWordNet as resources forsentiment analysis in micro-blogging.Proceedings of the Seventh InternationalWorkshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval2013), Atlanta, Georgia, USA.Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Kathleen R Mckeown(1997).
Predicting the semantic orientation ofadjectives.
Proceedings of the 35th AnnualMeeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics and EighthConference of the European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,Association for Computational Linguistics.Minqing Hu and Bing Liu (2004).
Mining andsummarizing customer reviews.
Proceedingsof the tenth ACM SIGKDD internationalconference on Knowledge discovery anddata mining.
Seattle, WA, USA, ACM: 168-177.Niklas Jakob and Iryna Gurevych (2010).
Extractingopinion targets in a single- and cross-domainsetting with conditional random fields.Proceedings of the 2010 Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing.
Cambridge, Massachusetts,Association for Computational Linguistics:1035-1045.Wei Jin and Hung Hay Ho (2009).
A novellexicalized HMM-based learning frameworkfor web opinion mining.
Proceedings of the26th Annual International Conference onMachine Learning.
Montreal, Quebec,Canada, ACM: 465-472.Suin Kim,Jianwen Zhang,Zheng Chen,Alice Oh andShixia Liu (2013).
A Hierarchical Aspect-Sentiment Model for Online Reviews.Chenghua Lin and Yulan He (2009).
Jointsentiment/topic model for sentiment analysis.Proceedings of the 18th ACM conference onInformation and knowledge management.Hong Kong, China, ACM: 375-384.Bing Liu (2012).
Sentiment Analysis and OpinionMining, Morgan &amp; Claypool Publishers.Samaneh Moghaddam and Martin Ester (2010).Opinion digger: an unsupervised opinionminer from unstructured product reviews.Proceedings of the 19th ACM internationalconference on Information and knowledgemanagement.
Toronto, ON, Canada, ACM:1825-1828.Maria Pontiki,Dimitrios Galanis,JohnPavlopoulos,Harris Papageorgiou,IonAndroutsopoulos and Suresh Manandhar.(2014).
"SemEval-2014 Task 4: AspectBased Sentiment Analysis."
Proceedings ofthe International Workshop on SemanticEvaluation (SemEval).Wei Wei and Jon Atle Gulla (2010).
Sentimentlearning on product reviews via sentimentontology tree.
Proceedings of the 48thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics.
Uppsala,Sweden, Association for ComputationalLinguistics: 404-413.Theresa Wilson,Janyce Wiebe and Paul Hoffmann(2005).
Recognizing contextual polarity inphrase-level sentiment analysis.
Proceedingsof the conference on Human LanguageTechnology and Empirical Methods inNatural Language Processing.
Vancouver,British Columbia, Canada, Association forComputational Linguistics: 347-354.Olena Zubaryeva and Jacques Savoy (2010).
"OpinionDetection by Combining Machine Learning& Linguistic Tools."
In Proceedings of the8th NTCIR, Workshop Meeting onEvaluation of Information AccessTechnologies: InformationRetrieval,Question Answering and Cross-LingualInformation Access.600
