Proceedings of the Third Joint Conference on Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM 2014), pages 81?86,Dublin, Ireland, August 23-24 2014.Semantic Roles in Grammar EngineeringWojciech Jaworski Adam Przepi?rkowskiInstitute of Computer Science, Polish Academy of Sciencesul.
Jana Kazimierza 5, 02-668 Warszawawjaworski@mimuw.edu.pl adamp@ipipan.waw.plAbstractThe aim of this paper is to discuss difficul-ties involved in adopting an existing sys-tem of semantic roles in a grammar engi-neering task.
Two typical repertoires of se-mantic roles are considered, namely, Verb-Net and Sowa?s system.
We report on ex-periments showing the low inter-annotatoragreement when using such systems andsuggest that, at least in case of languageswith rich morphosyntax, an approximationof semantic roles derived from syntactic(grammatical functions) and morphosyn-tactic (grammatical cases) features of ar-guments may actually be beneficial for ap-plications such as textual entailment.1 IntroductionThe modern notion of semantic ?
or thematic ?roles stems from the lexical semantic work ofGruber 1965 (his thematic relations) and Fillmore1968 (so-called deep cases), and was popularisedby Jackendoff 1972, but traces of this concept mayalready be found in the notion of k?araka in thewritings of the Sanskrit grammarian P?an.ini (4thcentury BC); see, e.g., Dowty 1991 for a histori-cal introduction.
Fillmore?s deep cases are Agen-tive, Dative, Instrumental, Factive, Locative, Ob-jective, as well as Benefactive, Time and Comi-tative, but many other sets of semantic roles maybe found in the literature; for example, Dalrym-ple 2001, p. 206, cites ?
after Bresnan and Kan-erva 1989 ?
the following ranked list of thematicroles: Agent, Benefactive, Recipient/Experiencer,Instrument, Theme/Patient, Locative.In Natural Language Processing (NLP),one of the most popular repertoires of se-mantic roles is that of VerbNet (Kipper et al.2000; http://verbs.colorado.edu/~mpalmer/projects/verbnet.html),a valence lexicon of English based on Levin?s(1993) classification of verbs according to thediathesis phenomena they exhibit.
The VerbNetwebpage states that it contains 3769 lemmatadivided into 5257 senses.
There are 30 semanticroles used in VerbNet 3.2,1including such stan-dard roles as Agent, Beneficiary and Instrument,but also more specialised roles such as Asset (forquantities), Material (for stuff things are madeof) or Pivot (a theme more central to an eventthan the theme expressed by another argument).This resource is widely used in NLP, and it wasone of the main lexical resources behind theUnified Lexicon of English (Crouch and King,2005), a part of an LFG-based semantic parser(Crouch and King, 2006) employed in tasks suchas question answering (Bobrow et al., 2007a) andtextual entailment (Bobrow et al., 2007b).Another system of semantic roles consideredhere is that developed by Sowa (2000; http://www.jfsowa.com/krbook/) for the pur-pose of knowledge representation in artificial in-telligence.
There are 18 thematic roles proposed inSowa 2000, p. 508, including standard roles suchas Agent, Recipient and Instrument, but also 4temporal and 4 spatial roles.
Unlike in case ofVerbNet, there is no corpus or dictionary showingnumerous examples of the acutal use of such roles?
just a few examples are given (on pp.
506?510).On the other hand, principles of assigning the-matic roles to arguments may be formulated as adecision tree, which should make the process ofsemantic role labelling more efficient.But why should we care about semantic roles atall?
From the NLP perspective, the main reason isthat they are useful in tasks approximating reason-ing, such as textual entailment.
Take the follow-1Table 2 on the VerbNet webpage lists 21 roles, of whichActor is not actually used; the 10 roles which are used but notlisted there are Goal, Initial_Location (apart from Location),Pivot, Reflexive, Result, Trajectory and Value, as well as Co-Agent, Co-Patient and Co-Theme.81ing two Polish sentences, with their na?ve meaningrepresentations in (1a)?
(2a):(1) Anonimanonymousnapisa?wroteartyku?papernafor*SEM.
*SEM?An anonymous person wrote a paper for*SEM.?a.
?a?p article(a) ?
person(p) ?anonymous(p) ?
write(p, a, starsem)b.
?e?a?p article(a) ?
person(p) ?anonymous(p) ?
write(e) ?agent(e, p) ?
patient(e, a) ?destination(e, starsem)(2) Anonimanonymousnapisa?wroteartyku?.paper?An anonymous person wrote a paper.?a.
?a?p article(a) ?
person(p) ?anonymous(p) ?
write(p, a)b.
?e?a?p article(a) ?
person(p) ?anonymous(p) ?
write(e) ?agent(e, p) ?
patient(e, a)While it is clear that (2) follows from (1), thisinference is not obvious in (1a)?
(2a); making suchan inference would require an additional mean-ing postulate relating the two write predicates ofdifferent arities.
In contrast, when dependentsof the predicate are represented via separate se-mantic roles, as in the neo-Davidsonian (1b)?(2b)(cf.
Parsons 1990), the inference from (1b) to (2b)is straightforward and follows from general in-ference rules of first-order logic; nothing specialneeds to be said about the writing events.Also, building on examples from Bobrowet al.
2007b, p. 20, once we know that flies is apossible hyponym of travels, we may infer Edtravels to Boston from Ed flies to Boston.
Givenrepresentations employing semantic roles, e.g.,?efly(e)?agent(e, ed)?destination(e, boston)and ?e travel(e) ?
agent(e, ed) ?destination(e, boston), all that is needed tomake this inference is a general inference schemasaying that, if P is a hypernym of Q, then?eQ(e) ?
P (e).
A more complicated set ofinference schemata would be necessary if theneo-Davidsonian approach involving semanticroles were not adopted.2 Problems with standard repertoires ofsemantic rolesAs noted by Bobrow et al.
2007b, p. 20, standardVerbNet semantic roles may in some cases makeinference more difficult.
For example, in Ed trav-els to Boston, VerbNet identifies Ed as a Theme,while in Ed flies to Boston ?
as an Agent.
The so-lution adopted there was to use ?a backoff strategywhere fewer role names are used (by projectingdown role names to the smaller set)?.In order to verify the usefulness of well-knownrepertoires of semantic roles, we performed a us-ability study of the two sets of semantic roles de-scribed above.
The aim of this study was to es-timate how difficult it would be to create a cor-pus of sentences with verbs?
arguments annotatedwith such semantic roles.
For this purpose, 37verbs were selected more or less at random and843 instances of arguments of these verbs (in 393sentences, but only one verb was considered ineach sentence) were identified in a corpus.
In twoexperiments, the same 7 human annotators wereasked to label these arguments with VerbNet andwith Sowa?s semantic roles.In both cases interannotator agreement (IAA)was below our expectations, given the fact thatVerbNet comes with short descriptions of seman-tic roles and a corpus of illustrative examples, andthat Sowa?s classification could be (and was forthis experiment) formalised as a decision tree.
ForVerbNet roles, Fleiss?s ?
(called Fleiss?s Multi-pi in Artstein and Poesio 2008, as it is actuallya generalisation of Scott?s pi rather than Cohen?s?)
is equal to 0.617, and for Sowa?s system itis a little higher, 0.648.
According to the com-mon wisdom (reflected in Wikipedia?s entry for?Fleiss?
kappa?
), values between 0.41 and 0.60 re-flect moderate agreement and between 0.61 and0.80 ?
substantial agreement.
Hence, the currentresults could be interpreted as moderately sub-stantial agreement.
However, Artstein and Poesio2008, p. 591, question this received wisdom andstate that ?only values above 0.8 ensured an anno-tation of reasonable quality?.This opinion is confirmed by the more detailedanalysis of the distribution of (dis)agreement pro-vided in Tab.
1.
The top table gives the numberof arguments for which the most commonly as-signed Sowa?s role was assigned by n annotators(n ranges from 2 to 7; not from 1, as there were noarguments that would be assigned 7 different rolesby the 7 annotators) and the most commonly as-signed VerbNet role was assigned bym annotators(m also ranges from 2 to 7).
For example, the cellin the row labelled 7 and in the column labelled82Ve r bN e t2 3 4 5 6 72 6 8 3 0 0 0 17S 3 8 39 39 17 25 3 131o 4 2 26 49 37 20 5 139w 5 4 11 48 45 11 15 134a 6 1 9 18 16 35 20 997 0 3 11 47 52 210 32321 96 168 162 143 253 843Ve r bN e t2 3 4 5 6 72 0.71% 0.95% 0.36% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 2.02%S 3 0.95% 4.63% 4.63% 2.02% 2.97% 0.36% 15.54%o 4 0.24% 3.08% 5.81% 4.39% 2.37% 0.59% 16.49%w 5 0.47% 1.30% 5.69% 5.34% 1.30% 1.78% 15.90%a 6 0.12% 1.07% 2.14% 1.90% 4.15% 2.37% 11.74%7 0.00% 0.36% 1.30% 5.58% 6.17% 24.91% 38.32%2.49% 11.39% 19.93% 19.22% 16.96% 30.01% 100.00%Table 1: Interannotator agreement rate for VerbNet and Sowa role systems; the top table gives numbersof arguments, the bottom table gives normalised percentages6 contains the information that 52 arguments weresuch that all annotators agreed on Sowa?s role and6 agreed on a VerbNet role.
The final row andthe final column contain the usual marginals; e.g.,out of 843 arguments, in case of Sowa?s system253 arguments were annotated unanimously, andin case of VerbNet roles ?
323 arguments.
Thelower table gives the same information normalisedto percentages.
Note that for a significant percentof examples (almost 18% in case of Sowa?s sys-tem and almost 14% in case of VerbNet) there isno majority decision and that the concentration ofexamples around the diagonal means that the lackof consensus is largely independent of the choiceof the role system.Some of the most difficult cases were discussedwith annotators and the conclusion reached wasthat there are two main reasons for the low IAA:numerous cases where more than one role seemsto be suitable for a given argument and caseswhere there is no suitable role at all.
(In fact, asin case of LECZY?C ?treat, cure?
discussed below, itis sometimes difficult to distinguish these two rea-sons: more than one role seems suitable becausenone is clearly right.
)The first situation is caused by the fact that adistinction between the roles is often highly sub-jective; for example, when a doctor is treating agirl, is (s)he causing a structural change?
The an-swer to this question determines the distinction be-tween Patient and Theme in Sowa?s system.
Itcould be ?no?
when the doctor only prescribessome medicines, but it could be ?yes?
when (s)heoperates her.
Furthermore, some emphasis is puton volitionality in Sowa?s system: the initiatior ofan action can be either Agent or Effector, depend-ing on whether (s)he causes the action voluntarilyor not ?
something that is often difficult to decideeven when a context of a sentence is given.On the other hand, the Agent role is extendedin VerbNet to ?internally controlled subjects suchas forces and machines?, but it is easy to confusethis role with Theme.
For example, in The horsejumped over the fence, the horse is ?
somewhatcounterintuitively ?
marked as Theme, as it mustbear the same role as in Tom jumped the horse overthe fence, where the Agent role is already taken byTom.
Other commonly confused pairs are Stim-ulus and Theme, Topic and Theme, and Patientand Theme.
Moreover, there are cases where morethan one role genuinely (not as a result of con-fusion) matches a given argument.
For example,in the Polish sentence Ona ?aduje sie?
w foremke?,kt?ra?
kto?s jej podsuna??
?She squeezes/loads her-self into a/the mould that somebody offered her?,the argument w foremke?
?into mould?
can be rea-83sonably marked as both: a spatial Destination anda functional Result.The other common reason for interannotatordisagreement is the lack of a suitable role.
For ex-ample, returning to the sentence A doctor is treat-ing a girl, it seems that neither of the two systemshas an obvious role for the person being cured(hence the impression of potential suitability of anumber of roles).
In Polish sentences involving theverb LECZY?C ?treat, cure?, the object of treatmentwas variously marked as Agent, Beneficiary, Pa-tient or Source when using VerbNet roles, and asAgent, Beneficiary, Experiencer, Patient, Recipi-ent or Result when using Sowa?s system.
Thus,in Zwierze?
jest leczone z tych chor?b ?An animalis treated for these diseases?, in the VerbNet ex-periment the animal was marked as Beneficiary(by 3 annotators), as Patient (?3) and as Source(?1), and in the Sowa experiment ?
as Benefi-ciary (?2), as Patient (?2), as Recipient (?2) andas Result (?1).
Similarly, for Ma?
?z leczy?
sie?
naserce, lit.
?Husband treated himself for his heart?,the husband was annotated as Agent (?2), Benefi-ciary (?2), Patient (?2) and Source (?1) when us-ing VerbNet roles and as Agent (?1), Beneficiary(?2), Experiencer (?1), Patient (?2) and Recipi-ent (?1) when using Sowa?s roles.Another major problem with the attempt to usethese sets of semantic roles was a high percentageof verb occurrences with multiple arguments as-signed the same semantic role.
In case of Sowa?ssystem 4.36% of sentences had this problem onthe average (the raw numbers for the 7 annotatorsare: 2, 5, 8, 9, 17, 31, 34 out of 347 sentences withno coordination of unlikes in argument positions;2note the surprisingly large deviation) and in caseof VerbNet ?
2.47% sentences were so affected (7,7, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12).On the basis of these experiments, as well asvarious remarks in the literature (see, e.g., the ref-erence to Bobrow et al.
2007b at the beginningof this section), we conclude that semantic rolesystems such as VerbNet or Sowa?s are perhapsnot really well-suited for the grammar engineer-ing task ?
and certainly not worth the time, effort2In case of arguments realised as a coordination of un-likes, e.g., a nominal phrase and a sentential clause, anno-tators routinely assigned distinct semantic roles to differentconjuncts, so that one argument received a number of differ-ent roles (from the same annotator) and, consequently, therewere many more duplicates in the remaining 393?347 = 46sentences than in the 347 sentences free from coordination ofunlikes considered here.and money needed to construct reasonably-sizedcorpora annotated with them ?
and that other ap-proaches must be explored.3 Syntactic approximation of semanticrolesIn Jaworski and Przepi?rkowski 2014 we proposeto define ?semantic roles?
on the basis of mor-phosyntactic information, including morpholog-ical cases, following the Slavic linguistic tradi-tion stemming from the work of Roman Jakob-son (see, e.g., Jakobson 1971a,b).
In particular,since the broader context of the work reported hereis the development of a syntactico-semantic LFG(Lexical-Functional Grammar; Bresnan 2001;Dalrymple 2001) parser for Polish, we build onthe usual LFG approach of obtaining semanticrepresentations on the basis of f-structures, i.e.,non-tree-configurational syntactic representations(as opposed to more surfacy tree-configurationalc-structures) containing information about predi-cates, grammatical functions and morphosyntac-tic features; this so-called description-by-analysis(DBA) approach has been adopted for German(Frank and Erk, 2004; Frank and Semeck?, 2004;Frank, 2004), English (Crouch and King, 2006)and Japanese (Umemoto, 2006).In the usual DBA approach, semantic roles areadded to the resulting representations on the ba-sis of semantic dictionaries external to LFG gram-mars (Frank and Semeck?, 2004; Frank, 2004;Crouch and King, 2005, 2006).
When suchFrameNet- or VerbNet-like dictionaries are notavailable, grammatical function names (subject,object, etc.)
are used instead of semantic roles(Umemoto, 2006).
Unfortunately, this latter ap-proach is detrimental for tasks such as textual en-tailment, as LFG grammatical functions representthe surface relations, so, e.g., a passivised (deep)object bears the grammatical function of (surface)subject.
Other diathesis phenomena also result indifferent grammatical functions assigned to argu-ments standing in the same semantic relation to theverb, e.g., the recipient of the verb GIVE will nor-mally be assigned a different grammatical functiondepending on whether it is realised as an NP (as inJohn gave Mary a book) or as a PP (John gave abook to Mary).Although currently no reasonably-sized dictio-naries of Polish containing semantic role informa-tion are available, we do not resort to grammatical84functions as names of semantic roles, but ratherguess approximations of semantic roles on the ba-sis of grammatical functions and morphosyntac-tic features.
For example, subjects of active verbsare marked as R0 (the ?semantic role?
approxi-mating the Agent), but subjects of passsive verbs,as well as objects of active verbs, are marked asR1 (roughly, the Undergoer, i.e., Patient, Themeor Product).3Apart from grammatical functionsand the voice value of the verb, also morphosyn-tactic features of arguments are taken into ac-count, especially, for PP arguments, the preposi-tion lemma and the grammatical case it governs.So, for example, both the OBJ-TH (dative NP) ar-guments and certain OBL (PP) arguments, e.g.,those headed by the preposition DLA ?for?, aretranslated into the R2 ?semantic role?, which ap-proximates the Beneficiary and Recipient seman-tic roles.
This results in the same semantic repre-sentations of Papkin upolowa?
dla Klary krokodyla?Papkin.NOM hunted a crocodile.ACC for Klara?,lit.
?Papkin hunted for Klara crocodile?, and Pap-kin upolowa?
Klarze krokodyla, lit.
?Papkin.NOMhunted Klara.DAT crocodile.ACC?.The advantage of this morphosyntax-based ap-proach is that it is fully deterministic (only one?semantic role?
may be assigned to a given argu-ment) and that it ensures high uniqueness of any?semantic role?
in the set of arguments of any verb(only 6 of the 347 sentences considered above, i.e.,1.73%, have the same ?semantic role?
asigned to acouple of arguments, compared with 2.47% and4.36% in the experiments described in this paper;see Jaworski and Przepi?rkowski 2014 for addi-tional data).
The disadvantage is that sometimeswrong decisions are made; for example, OBL ar-guments of type Z[inst] ?with?
may have one ofat least three meanings: Perlative (R7), Thematic(R1) and Co-agentive (R0); in fact, the sentenceZr?b z nim porza?dek, lit.
?do with him order?, isambiguous between the last two and may mean ei-ther ?Deal with him?
(R1) or ?Clean up with him?(R0).
However, the procedure will always assignonly one of these ?roles?
to such Z[inst] arguments(currently R7).3We use symbols such as R0 or R1 instead of more mean-ingful names in order to constantly remind ourselves that weare dealing with approximations of true semantic roles; thisalso explains scare quotes in the term ?semantic role?
whenused in this approximative sense.4 ConclusionsWhen developing a semantic parser, it makessense to aim at neo-Davidsonian representationswith semantic roles relating arguments to events,as such representations facilitate textual entail-ment and similar tasks.
In this paper we reportedon experiments which show that the practical us-ability of two popular repertoires of semantic rolesin grammar engineering is limited: as the IAAis low, systems trained on corpora annotated withsuch semantic roles are bound to be inconsistent,limiting the usefulness of resulting semantic rep-resentations in such tasks.
In case of a languagethat does not have a resouce such as VerbNet, thequestion arises then whether it makes sense to in-vest considerable time and effort into creating it.In this and the accompanying paper Jaworskiand Przepi?rkowski 2014 we suggest an answer inthe negative and propose to approximate seman-tic roles on the basis of syntactic and morphosyn-tactic information.
Admittedly, this proposal iscurrently rather programmatic, as it is supportedonly with anectodal evidence.
It seems plausiblethat the usefulness of resulting representations fortextual entailment should be comparable to ?
ormaybe even better than ?
that of semantic rep-resentations produced by semantic role labellerstrained on rather inconsistently annotated data, butthis should be quantified by further experiments.4If this hypothesis turns out to be true, however,the method we propose has the clear advantage ofbeing overwhelmingly cheaper: instead of manyperson-years of building a resource such as Verb-Net (and then training a role labeller, etc.
), a cou-ple of days of a skilled researcher are required todefine and test reasonable translations from (mor-pho)syntax to ?semantic roles?.ReferencesRon Artstein and Massimo Poesio.
2008.
Inter-Coder Agreement for Computational Linguis-tics.
Computational Linguistics 34(4), 555?596.Daniel G. Bobrow, Bob Cheslow, Cleo Condo-ravdi, Lauri Karttunen, Tracy Holloway King,4To the best of our knowledge, no testing data for suchtasks are available for Polish and Polish has never been in-cluded in evaluation initiatives of this kind.
The approach de-scribed here is currently employed in a large-scale grammardevelopment effort carried out at the Institute of ComputerScience, Polish Academy of Sciences, in connection with theCLARIN-PL Research Infrastructure, and we hope to furtherreport on its usefulness in the future.85Rowan Nairn, Valeria de Paiva, Charlotte Price,and Annie Zaenen.
2007a.
PARC?s Bridge andQuestion Answering System.
In Proceedings ofthe GEAF07 Workshop, pages 26?45.Daniel G. Bobrow, Cleo Condoravdi, RichardCrouch, Valeria de Paiva, Lauri Karttunen,Tracy Holloway King, Rowan Nairn, CharlottePrice, and Annie Zaenen.
2007b.
Precision-focused textual inference.
In Proceedings of theACL?PASCAL Workshop on Textual Entailmentand Paraphrasing at ACL 2007, pages 16?21.Joan Bresnan.
2001.
Lexical-Functional Syntax.Blackwell Textbooks in Linguistics, Malden,MA: Blackwell.Joan Bresnan and Jonni M. Kanerva.
1989.
Loca-tive inversion in Chiche ?wa: A case study of fac-torization in grammar.
Linguistic Inquiry 20(1),1?50.Dick Crouch and Tracy Holloway King.
2005.Unifying Lexical Resources.
In Proceedings ofthe Interdisciplinary Workshop on the Identifi-cation and Representation of Verb Features andVerb Classes.Dick Crouch and Tracy Holloway King.
2006.Semantics via f-structure rewriting.
In MiriamButt and Tracy Holloway King (eds.
), The Pro-ceedings of the LFG?06 Conference, Universit?tKonstanz, Germany: CSLI Publications.Mary Dalrymple.
2001.
Lexical Functional Gram-mar.
San Diego, CA: Academic Press.David Dowty.
1991.
Thematic Proto-roles and Ar-gument Selection.
Language 67(3), 547?619.Charles J. Fillmore.
1968.
The Case for Case.
InEmmon Bach and Robert T. Harms (eds.
), Uni-versals in Linguistic Theory, pages 1?88, NewYork: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.Anette Frank.
2004.
Generalisations over Corpus-induced Frame Assignment Rules.
In CharlesFillmore, Manfred Pinkal, Collin Baker and Ka-trin Erk (eds.
), Proceedings of the LREC 2004Workshop on Building Lexical Resources fromSemantically Annotated Corpora, pages 31?38,ELRA, Lisbon.Anette Frank and Katrin Erk.
2004.
Towardsan LFG Syntax-Semantics Interface for FrameSemantics Annotation.
In Alexander Gelbukh(ed.
), Computational Linguistics and IntelligentText Processing (CICLing 2004), volume 2945of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 1?12, Heidelberg: Springer.Anette Frank and Ji?r?
Semeck?.
2004.
Corpus-based Induction of an LFG Syntax-SemanticsInterface for Frame Semantic Processing.
In Sil-via Hansen-Schirra, Stefan Oepen and HansUszkoreit (eds.
), Proceedings of the 5th In-ternational Workshop on Linguistically Inter-preted Corpora at COLING 2004, Geneva.Jeffrey Gruber.
1965.
Studies in Lexical Relations.Ph.
D.thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-nology.Ray Jackendoff.
1972.
Semantic Interpretation inGenerative Grammar.
Cambridge, MA: TheMIT Press.Roman O. Jakobson.
1971a.
Beitrag zur allge-meinen Kasuslehre.
Gesamtbedeutungen derrussischen Kasus.
In Selected Writings II, pages23?71, The Hague: Mouton.Roman O. Jakobson.
1971b.
Morfologi?ceskienabljudenija nad slavjanskim skloneniem.
InSelected Writings II, pages 154?183, TheHague: Mouton.Wojciech Jaworski and Adam Przepi?rkowski.2014.
Syntactic Approximation of SemanticRoles.
In Adam Przepi?rkowski and MaciejOgrodniczuk (eds.
), Advances in Natural Lan-guage Processing: Proceedings of the 9th In-ternational Conference on NLP, PolTAL 2014,Warsaw, Poland, September 17?19, 2014, vol-ume 8686 of Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelli-gence, Heidelberg: Springer.Karin Kipper, Hoa Trang Dang, William Schuler,and Martha Palmer.
2000.
Building a class-based verb lexicon using TAGs.
In Proceedingsof TAG+5 Fifth International Workshop on TreeAdjoining Grammars and Related Formalisms.Beth Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alter-nations: A Preliminary Investigation.
Chicago:University of Chicago Press.Terence Parsons.
1990.
Events in the Semantics ofEnglish: A Study in Subatomic Semantics.
Cam-bridge, MA: The MIT Press.John F. Sowa.
2000.
Knowledge Representa-tion: Logical, Philosophical, and Computa-tional Foundations.
Pacific Grove, CA: BrooksCole Publishing Co.Hiroshi Umemoto.
2006.
Implementing aJapanese Semantic Parser Based on GlueApproach.
In Proceedings of the 20th PacificAsia Conference on Language, Informationand Computation, pages 418?425, HuazhongNormal University, Wuhan, China: TsinghuaUniversity Press.86
