SPEAKING WITH MANYTONGUES:SOME PROBLEMS IN MODELING SPEAKERSOF ACTUAL DISCOURSEJohn H. Cl ippinger, Jr.TeleosCambridge MA 02138I.
INTRODUCTION"It is as if our languages wereconfounded; when we want a thought,they bring us a word; when we askfor a word; they bring us a dash;and when we expect a dash, therecomes a piece of bawdy.
"L ichtenbergAny discussion of natural  languageprocessing models eventual ly  makes referenceto the extent to which a part icular  model orclass of models accurately descr ibes anaspect of human language processing.
Whilethere has been considerable work done innatural  language comprehending systems andsubsequent d iscussion of theirappropr iateness  as descr ipt ive models, therehas not been a paral le l  effort in the areaof discourse generation.
Moreover, mostwork done in language comprehension andgenerat ion systems has been highlyrestr icted to very special ized speechsituations, and has not seen as its pr imaryobject ive the model ing of a specif ic speakeror l istener.
While there are goodmethodologica l  reasons for working withrestr icted examples and l imited domains, anargument can be made that such a restr ictedand normative focus can result in d istortednotions about the character and complexityof natural  speech generat ion andcomprehension.In this paper I would like to breakwith some establ ished pract ices inar t i f i c ia l  inte l l igence and l inguistics, andexamine some of the propert ies oft ranscr ibed natural  d iscourse in order tosuggest the types of mechan isms andframeworks that might be most appropr iate toa descr ipt ion of human discourse behavior.The paper consists of three parts: the firstwil l  begin with a brief analysis of a sampleof a "therapeut ic  discourse" and then focuson some pr inc ipal  issues in model ing naturaldiscourse; the fol lowing sect ion wil lbr ief ly descr ibe the manner in which thispart icu lar  d iscourse episode was modeled inthe program ERMA, and the final sect ion wil ldiscuss the l imitat ions of my own approachand suggest others that may be morecomplete.II.
AN EXAMPLE OF NATURAL DISCOURSEFor all the work done in l inguist ics,it is only re lat ive ly  recent ly thatl inguists -- especia l ly  soc io l inguists  --have begun to look at actual language use.Like undergraduates in psychologyexperiments,  there has been a tendency touse l imited samples of speakers as datasources -- more often than not, l inguiststhemselves.
A l though this trend isbeginning to reverse itself, it nonetheless68has resulted in some distort ions about theuse and character of' language.
For bysolely focusing upon the grammatica l i ty  orwel l - formedness of an utterance, attent ionis often averted from the reasons apart icular  utterance was made, and why ittook the part icular  form it did.
Below is afragment of a transcr ibed episode intherapeut ic  discourse which was used inconstruct ing the ERMA model and which Ibelieve, is rich in data about discoursebehavior.You know, for some reason, I, huh,just thought about, uh, about thebill and payment agsin.
That (pause2 seconds) that, uh (pause 4seconds) I was, uh, thinking thatI -- of asking you whether itwouldn't  be all right for (pause 2seconds), you know, not to give me abill.
That is, uh-I would(hesitates) since I usual lyby -- well, I immediate ly  thought ofobject ions to this, but my idea wasthat I would simply count up thenumber of hours and give you a checkat the end of the month.Notice that the informat ion content ofthis reques is quite l imited; the patientwants to bill hersel f  and pay by check atthe end of the month.
But this ratherl imited request is couched in a mostextraord inary network of dubitat ives -- "youknow," "for some reason," "wouldn't be allr ight," "that is," "was thinking,"  etc.Similarly, the entire third sentence actslike a dubitative, and in effect wasproduced in ant ic ipat ion of the therapist 'sreaction; obviously, the patient is worr iedabout what her therapist  might think.Notice too that the patient starts asentence ("That is, uh-I would since Iusual ly  by-wel l ,")  and then in i t iat iesanother sentence.
It is quite apparent thatthis part icu lar  speaker is monitor ing mostof what she says -- th inking about it, andthen react ing to it.
Moreover, she does notseem to know what she is f inal ly going tosay from the start, but modif ies, qual i f ies,and corrects hersel f  as she speaks.
Henceshe seems to be invoking a number ofdi f ferent and often contradictory  cr i ter iain her product ion of discourse.
She doesn'tso much generate discourse -- as thatimplies too neat and l inear a process -- asshe regulates it; she makes a statement,retracts it, qual i f ies it, and then restatesit.
In fact, as the remaining sect ion ofthis d iscourse episode makes clear, she hadonly a l imited understanding about why shemade the request in the first place.
Itturns out that she in i t iated the request toreduce the formal i ty  of the therapeut icsett ing in order to faci l i tate " intercourse"between hersel f  and the therapist.
Not onlywould it appear that there are a number ofdi f ferent and conf l ict ing control  mechanismsoperat ing during the course of d iscourseproduction, but also during its inception,when the not ion of the request was firstbeing considered.What I think that this exampledemonstrates is the extent to which!Ia!I!1!!!IIIIi!!
!IIIcognit ive and l inguist ic behaviors areincredibly intertwined.
For not only doesthe cognit ive component itself appear to befragmented and at odds with itself, but eachof these fragments -- or controlmechanisms -- seem to have access tol inguistic knowledge, which they in turn canuse for their own purposes.
Hence entireconstituents can be formed and inserted enmasse, ("you know," "for some reason",) orentire sentences generated by relat ivelyindependent mechanisms.
Moreover, similarl inguistic items seem to have differentmeanings according to how they are used, andtherefore would require mult iplerepresentations.
For example, the firstsentence is a type of foregrounding remarkand was constructed to acquaint thelistener, the therapist in this case, withthe reason for a change in topic.
The word"thought" here refers to a prior mentalaction of the speaker and differsconsiderably from the "was thinking" of thesecond sentence, which in this case acts asa qual i f ier or dubitative.
Any intel l igentsystem must of course know the dif ference ofuses and hence, meanings, between the two.Moreover, the derivat ion of the two similarwords would differ; the first one would bederived from the concept for thinking andpsychology at that.
But independent of sucha move I am at a loss to see how discoursebehavior can be adequately described at thel inguistic level alone.III.
THE ERMA MODEL OF DISCOURSE BEHAVIORThe ERMA (err-umm-ah) (Clippinger,1974; Brown, 1974), program Was written tosimulate a speaker of a therapeuticdiscourse from beginning to end: themotivat ion of the discourse, its censoring,reformulation, expression, andintrospection.
The intent was to have aprogram which repl icated the thought anddiscourse processes of the modeledspeaker -- including her hesitat ions andmistakes.
The program was init ial ly writtenin CONNIVER (McDermott Sussman, 1973) andmakes extensive use of two of its keyfeatures; methods and contexts.f~orm~-F~ve major "stages of the discourseation au~_~, expression process were~ ident i f ied i  and represented a~ CONNIVER-~-6~ntex-t-s.-r- Calvin, Machiavell i ,  Cicero,Freud, and Real ization.
Each had their ownprograms and datums, and accordingly, oftentheir own opinions about what should be saidand how it should be said.
The discoursetherefore come from the cognit ive component ~ stream, so to speak, has its source in aproper, whereas the second has more of a Y ~~c ia l _~r~.~ program which in i t iates topicthematic ~eaning and would be inserted as a ~ .
~  concepts T6Tac~on,  and then flows throughmeans of qual i fy ing a statement.
~ ~ e a c ~  of these contexts -- often back andforth before achieving its final expression.While it is quite possible to model or ~ When a concept (more will be said about whatdescribe isolated instances of such ~ a concept is later) is placed within theexamples, I am quite skeptical about the ?~ ~,~a lv in  context, programs there examine thatlong term value of such models independent ~ ~ o n c e p t  to determine its acceptabi l i ty  forof a more general framework or theory.
~ ~ ,  expression.
The concept can be censoredThere is, I believe, a need for more global right off or it can be passed on to thetheories about what discourse is and does, .~  Machiavel l i  context with suggestions as tofor without such a framework, there is atendency for c lass i f icatory schemes tobecome too closed and too special ized andhence incompatible with related work.
Thisis part icular ly  true if the process ofdiscourse formation is a highlyinterdependent one, as I believe it is, anddecisions made at one level interact w i ththose made at another.I rules, and forms are organized.
This is part icular ly true of thematic informationwhich is especial ly  variable and sensit ivei to the intent ions and idiosyncracies of thespeaker and his setting.
Consequently, inorder to understand why certain thematicforms were used, as against others, or why apart icular form is appropr iate in oneI context and not another, it is necessary tounderstand both the mult iple intentions ofthe speaker and the~s~ra~_n~s he or shefelt were in effect.
To some extent, toanswer such quest ions entails a move froml inguist lcs to psychology -- maybe analyt ichow it should be modif ied.
For example, inthe case of the discourse sample previouslydiscussed, the mot ivat ing concept expresseda desire for intercourse with the therapist.This request is found to be unacceptable,and the reason given is the fact that thetherapy situation is a formal one governedby the exchange of payments.
Anotherprogram in Calvin then tries to see whatA more global theory of discourse wouldby necessity have to take into account the i ~'~" ~fact that discourse behavior is an|intent ional  act iv i ty which attempts to|affect some trade off between the speaker's|goals, his constraints, his competency, and|those of his audience.
For it is within|this sett ing that the more manifest aspectsof discourse or speech are cast and it iswithin this sett ing that l inguist ic options,would happen if the exchange re lat ionship~r' ' were "negated" or el iminated.
It sends thisnew concept to the Machiavel l i  context, whoas a special ist  in such matters, tries tofigure out how this would be accomplished.Various programs there consider differentpossibi l i t ies,  one of which is to ask thetherapist not to give the patient a bill.This suggest ion in turn is sent to theCicero context to assess its possible impactupon the therapist.
A program there saysthat it would shock the therapist and sendsback the concept for further consideration.Once back in Machiavel l i  again, programsthere, who special ize in reducing negativeor shocking impacts of statements, maketheir suggest ions as to how the request canbe made, with a minimum of offense.
It isat this point in the program that cognit iveand thematic considerat ions becom@ mixed.For a l though the program is stlrl worklngwith concepts, which may or may not haveacceptable lexical real ization, it is makingsuggest ions as to how the concepts should bemarked for expression and how certain69Iqual i fy ing const ituents can be inserted tomodify the l istener s interpretation.
Thesesuggest ions are then again sent to theCicero context, where barring no furtherobjections, they are made into stateconcepts and sent onto the Real izat ioncontext for lexical real izat ion andordering.
However, even after lexicalreal izat ion is completed, the possibi l i tyexists for further interrupt ion andreformulation, as Calvin has one final lookat what is to be said.
He can either stopan expression altogether, for example, wherethe patient starts to say "I shouldn't begiven a bill" but stops herself  and insteadsays "of asking you whether it wouldn'tbe...", or he can make last minutesuggestions, which in turn are translated byspecial programs into inter ject ions such as,"you know," "huh," "I mean.
"In order to produce even this l imiteddiscourse the program had to be able todist inguish between several levels ofcognition: thinking about how to achieve apart icular goal ( irrespective of whether itwould be real ized into discourse); thinkingabout what to say (a state concept) andthinking about how to say it ( lexicalreal ization).
At each of these levelsdifferent points of view were involved;Calvin regular ly objected to what Cicerofound acceptable, and Machiavel l i ,  thoughapol it ical ,  often found himself  caught inbetween.
If one adds in the Freud context,used for introspection, then the clash ofopinions can become all the more strident.While it is doubtful  that all forms ofdiscourse behavior involve such a mult i tudeof personal i t ies and agents, it is apparent,I believe, that discourse can be producedfrom a number of dif ferent sources and thathigher level cognit ive decis ions effectlower level l inguist ic decisions and viceversa.Since the discourse production processwas found to be so diverse and interactive,it was absolutely necessary to have anextremely f lexible means for represent ingconcepts.
The basic notion is similar tothat of frames (Minsky, 1974; Winograd,1974) where a "generic concept" is used torepresent a general or stereotypic meaningand a "token concept" is used to representan instant iat ion of the generic concept.House, for example, would be treated as thegeneric concept, and the big red house wouldbe the token concept where "big" and "red"would be concepts on the property list.Information about what the concept was wouldbe carr ied on one set of indicators such asCHARACTERISTIC,  and how it was to be used byanother, DENOTER, PROCESS, DE-EMPHASIZE,STRESS, etc.
Similarly, information aboutconcepts" re lat ionship to other conceptswould also be represented by indicators andtheir property lists: RELATED-CONCEPT,MOTIVATION, CAUSE, EFFECT, UNACCEPTABLE,etc.
In all, about thirty dif ferent typesof indicators were used.Token concepts could be combinedtogether to form "conceptual  clauses," wherea process or "relator" concept occupied thepr imary  posit ion and all other concepts70fi l led the slot of arguments specify ing arole with respect to the relator concept.These conceptual clauses could becomearbitrar i ly  complex where each argumentcould potent ia l ly  contain other embeddedconceptual clauses.
Consequently, it wasquite possible for the program to contain athought which could not be expressed withthe same meaning it had internally.All processing of concepts is performedby a modif ied form of CONNIVER methodscalled mult ip le body interrupts developed byRichard Brown (Brown, 1974).
They are firedwhen a concept's part icular  pattern matchestheir invocat ion pattern within a givencontext.
Therefore control  within theprogram is transferred through the sendingand receiving of concepts and the addit ionand removal of property lists andindicators.
For the most part, theinte l l igence of these programs is veryspecial ized, as they only worked with tokenconcepts for relat ively specif ic purposes.Certain ly if the program were to be expandedand general ized, these programs would alsohave to be general ized, but how much I amuncertain.
For example, it might betempting to have one program perform allforegrounding.
However, I think that thiswould be d isadvantageous in the long run, asthe type of foregrounding required indiscourse seems to vary according to thecontext in which the statement is beingprepared, and therefore should be performedlocally.The organizat ion of the grammar, Ibelieve, also demonstrates the extent towhich cognit ive and l inguist ic factors areinterdependent.
Init ial ly, I had planned touse Hal l iday's  systemic grammar (Halliday,1968), as I found his funct ionalrepresentat ion of grammar, and especia l lyhis work on thematic structure to beconsistent with my own thinking aboutdiscourse structure.
However, as I began toadapt it to the model I found that his levelof descr ipt ion was inappropr iate to what Iwas attempting to do.
The first problem wasthat it was not conceptual ly  based, andtherefore too t ight ly wedded to a ratherclosed descr ipt ion of l inguist ic structuresat the clausal level.
The second problemwas that his descr ipt ions of thematicstructure were not str ict ly functional,  andtherefore rather than supplying informat ionabout how a part icular  construct ion could beused to achieve a part icular  effect, theyinstead told what it was.
Information aboutwhether a part icular  concept is given or newwithin the ERMA program, for example, is notgiven a priori but suppl ied through feedbackby audience sensit ive programs that commenton what the audience knows or can beexpected to know.
Consequently,  if theprogram is act ing half way inte l l igent ly  andtracking on what it is saying, it will takecare of matters such as topic and commentimplicit ly.
It is my bel ief that notionslike theme and rheme, topic and comment, andthe al ike are only known upon ref lect ionabout what has been said, and essent ia l lyare tangentia l  to the interests of thespeaker while speaking.
The grammar I endedup designing is conceptual ly  based, andI1II!1!!!I!
!I!Iwhile borrowing from Fi l lmore's notion ofcases (Fillmore, 1968), employes ac lass i f icat ion scheme which is orderedaccording to the effects various l inguist icoptions achieve rather than simply what theyare.Con.iectures and ConclusionsWhile the study of discourse structureand cognit ion is now being act ively pursuedby l inguists (Hymes and Gumperz, 1972;Labov, 1975; Lakoff, 1971; Hall iday, 1973),phi losophers (Ricoeur, 1970, Searle, 1971),and computat ional  l inguists (MacDonald,1975; Hayes, 1973; Schank, 1974; Phil ips,1973, Schmidt, 1973), there have not to myknowledge been any models developed whichattempt to model the discourse behavior of aspecif ic speaker.
As a consequence, it isdiff icult to place the ERMA model or theorywithin any given paradigm of research ondiscourse, as the frameworks, objectives,and methods within this field are as nearlyvaried as the people working in it.Moreover, it is my bel ief that computat ionall inguist ics -- not to mention discourses imulat ion -- has yet to find its paradigm,for there remains a welter of data yet to beorganized or explained, and no overr id ingconsensus as to how it should be done.Therefore seen from this light, adiscussion of the l imitat ions and the goalsof the ERMA model assumes a somewhatdifferent cast, as I believe that the localand more technical  decis ions made indeveloping the model are of less relevanceto an integrated understanding of humandiscourse than are some basic theoret icaldecisions which were made.
For at presentthere is no basic methodological  consensuson how discourse should be descr ibed -- oreven what it is, for that matter, and henceany subsequent discussion of mechanismsalone would be, I believe, ungrounded.Therefore, I first want to make clear my owntheoret ical  incl inat ions and then discusssome of the approaches of others to see howdisourse behavior can be morecomprehensively  represented.
First off, Iregard the discourse process as a regulatoryone, whereby the speaker attempts to achievesome effect through his communicat ion of themedium of language.
In speaking he hasintent ions as well as counter- intent ionswhich he attempts to real ize under theconstraints of his own intel lectual  andl inguist ic competency as well as those ofhis l istener.
He can l isten to what hesays, and he can modify what he says atvirtual ly any point in the discourse stream.He makes his l inguist ic select ions accordingto the communicat ive effect he feels theywil l  have; hence he is less concerned withthe grammatical i ty  or wel l - formedness of hisutterance than with their effect iveness; infact he might find being ungrammatical  aneffect ive means of expression.
Moreover, hecan be inventive as he speaks and listens,devising more abbreivated and special izedexpressions according to context and intent.In developing the ERMA model Iattempted to embody as many of these notionsof d iscourse behavior as possible, but I71found that as I got further into working outa representat ion of the processes involvedin producing the sample text, that I neededmore empir ical  evidence for my model ingdecisions.
For example, why does thespeaker hesitate at a part icular point andnot another, or why does she use "I mean,"as against "You know," or how do I know thather request for a change in the bi l l ingarrangement is real ly a displaced requestfor intercourse?
While I did examine othertranscripts, roughly two hundred of them, todetect patterns, I lacked a suf f ic ient lydeveloped framework to really organize andfocus my search.
This lack of bothempir ical  evidence and a more comprehensiveand systematic understanding of d iscoursebehavior in general led me to represent someof the discourse mechanisms and processes ina somewhat ad hoc fashion.
For example, forthe purposes of a general theory, it wouldhave beendes i rab le  to segregate in moredetail  the dif ferent possible stages ofdiscourse formation and product ion and beable to justify these dist inct ions on soundtheoret ical  or empir ical  grounds.Similarly, I would have liked to have hadsome basis for c lassi fy ing the types ofroles indicators play, and hence provide amore general understanding of their part inshaping discourse.
But as it were, therewere so many sizable gaps in my knowledgeabout natural  discourse that it was far tooeasy to make any number of simplifying, ifnot erroneous, assumptions about howdiscourse was formed and produced withoutany immediate penalty.Consequent ly  I would like to make anargument for more empir ical  research intothe character of natura l -unedited discourse,preferably those forms of discourse thatexhibit mistakes and errors.
I think thatsuch inquir ies in turn wil l  provide a basisfor designing and select ing therepresentat ional  structures and proceduresappropr iate to model natural discourse.Certa in ly  this cannot be done independent ofsome more general  computat ional  theory, butit is cr it ical  that this theory be not toospeci f ied or closed to preclude a full viewof d iscourse data.Finally, I would like to br ief lycomment on two recent approaches inart i f ic ia l  inte l l igence which might begin tofill in the gaps in my own work.
One of thehazards of research in this area is that bythe time you complete your work someone elsehas already come up with an improvement onyour own ideas.
The notion of frames(Minsky, 1974; Winograd, 1975) is a case inpoint.
Although ERMA uses a knowledgerepresentat ion simi lar to that of frames,her cognit ive ski l ls are too special ized andtoo localized; she is quite incapable ofmaking inferent ia l  loops.
Moreover, theERMA model has no systematic overal lorganizat ion to her bel ief system, andhence, it is di f f icult  at times to v isual izefrom a distance what is taking place.
Thereis also the quest ion as to whether theproduct ion of d iscourse is best organizedaccording to re lat ive ly  set contexts, suchas Machiavel l i  and Calvin, or whether theconcepts themselves should determine theirown formation and production contexts.
Ican see how something like a frame'srepresentation might be able to resolve someof these problems because of its means forintegrating general and specific knowledge.But exactly how I am uncertain.
Perhaps,instead of having the program think in termsof concepts, it would think in terms offrame systems, which in turn would carrytheir own opinions as to how the discourseshould be expressed.
Similarly, these framesystems would be a part of larger framesystems, which would ovesee the overall andmore general aspects of discourseregulation.I would also like to adapt some keynotions of Sussman's model of skillacquisition (Sussman, i973) to a discoursemodel, as I feel that the process ofproducing a discourse and acquiring a skill-- albeit manipulating blocks, areintrinsically similar.
Morever, his notionsof representing actions in terms of theireffects as well as his treatment of learningas a feedback process involving debuggingand patching procedures, is similar in kindto my own notion of discourse production asa feedback regulated process.
However, theadded advantage of his approach is that theknowledge that his model has or acquires isa function of its own experience.
This issubstantially different from ERMA, where herknowledge is not learned to any substantialdegree but programmed in from the start.This I feel to be a basic limitation, as itis my belief that at least part of anunderstanding of what discourse behavior isentails understanding how it was derived;especially, if one is concerned with themore subtle psychological factors thatunderlie therapeutic dicourse.
For example,the manner in which the discourse formationcontexts and procedures are organizedreflect the learning and the experience ofthe speaker over time.
Consequently, if weare ever going to adequately explain theorganization of a discourse formationprocess of a real speaker, we are going tohave to be able to identify those mechanismswhich generated the discourse procedures andcontexts in the first place.
This is notjust because it would be nice to have ameans of describing the evolution ofdiscourse styles and conventions over time,but because a single speaker will in thecourse of speaking use such deeper levelmechanisms to both invent and to interpretnew discourse.In conclusion, I would like toencourage the developement of morecomprehensive computational theories ofdiscourse that link diachronic descriptionsand concerns with synchronic ones.
If thisis done with sufficient empirical content, Ifeel it is quite possible to create gooddescriptive and perhaps even predictivemodels of human discourse behavior in thenear future.72REFERENCESBrown, R., The Use o__ff Multiple BodyInterrupts i__nn Discourse Generation,Unpublished Undergraduate Thesis, MIT,1974.Clippinger, J., A Discourse S~eaking Programas a Preliminary Theory of DiscourseBehavior and a Limited Theory ofPsychoanalytic Discourse, unpublisheddissertation, University ofPennsylvania, 1974.Fillmore, C., "The Case for Case" in Bach,E., Harms, R., eds., Universals inLinguistic Theory, Holt, Rinehart, andWinston, 1968.Halliday, M.A.K., "Notes on Transitivity andTheme in English," Journal ofLinguistics, 3, 1967, p. 37-81, 119-244,179-216...... "The functional basis of language," inBernstein, B., ed., Class, Codes andControl, Vol.
II, Routledge, Kegan, andPaul, London, p. 343-365, 1973.Hays, D., "Language and InterpersonalRelationships,', Daedalus, Summer, 1973,p.
203-217...... Textual Or a ization, MS~, 1973.Hymes, D., Gumperz, J., eds, Directions i__n_nSociolinguistics; The Ethnography ofCommunication, Holt, Rinehart andWinston, 1972.Labov, W., Therapeutic Discourse,forthcoming.Lakoff, G., "Conversational Postulates",Papers from the Seventh Regional Meetingo__\[f the Chicago Linguistic ~ociety,Chicago Linguistic Society, 1971.MacDonald, D., Preliminary Report on aProgram ~or Generating Natural Languge~MIT AI Laboratory, 1975.McDermott, D., Sussman, G., ConniverReference Manual, MIT AI Laboratory,1973.Minsky, M., A Framework for RepresentingKnowledge, MIT AI Laboraaory, AI MemoNo.
306, 1974.Philips, B., "Topic Analysis,,, Proceedingso_ff the 197~ International Conference o__~nCom utational Linguistics, 1973.Ricoeur, P., "The Model of the Text:Meaningful Action as a Text," in SocialResearch, Vol.
38/Number 3, Autumn1971.Schank, R., Understandin ParaS ,Technical Report 5, Instituto per gliStudi Semantici e Cognitive, Castagnola,Switzerland, 1974.I!IiiI!iitSearle, J., ed., The Philosophy of Language,Oxford University Press, 1971.Schmidt, C.F., D'Addamio, J., A Model of theCommon Sense Theory of Intention, MS.,1973.Sussman, G., ~ Computational Model of SkillAcquisition, MIT AI, TR-297, 1973.Winograd, T., Frame Representations and theDeclarative/Procedural Controversy, inBobrow and Collins (eds) Representationand Understanding, Academic Press, 1975.73
