CONSIDERATIONSFORCOMPUTATIONAL THEORIES OF SPEAKING:SEVEN THINGS SPEAKERS DOJohn H. Clippinger, Jr.TeleosCambridge MA 02138I.
INTRODUCTIONFundamental progress has to do withthe reinterpretation of basicideas.WhiteheadThe opinion which is fated to beul t imately agreed to by all whoinvestigate it is what we mean bythe truth and the objectrepresented in this opinion is thereal.C.
PierceAny discipline in the course of itsmaturation experiences identity crises indeciding what it is and where it is going.Often an initial commonality of interests,methods, and even disgruntlements hides aneventual diversity of purposes and goals.It is often at this time that self-consciousdecisions have to be made regarding theoverall scope and directions of itsenterprises.
To a limited degree,computational linguistics is beginning toexperience its own birth pains.
Bedfellowswho did not seem so strange initially arebeginning to appear progressively more so.Perhaps now is a time for stock taking andsome preliminary self reflection.The principal intent of this paper isto sort out what I feel to be some of themore basic purposes of computationallinguistic research, and then to discusssome of the explanatory requirements for oneaspect of such research, the modeling of thehuman speaker.
The bulk of the paper willfocus upon some of the more basic issues indescribing human speaking by a computationalmodel.II.
THE DUAL CHARACTER OFLINGUISTIC RESEARCHCOMPUTATIONALSuperficially, what distinguishescomputational lingustics from other hybridforms of linguistic research(sociolinguistics, psycholinguistics,ethnolinguistics, generative linguistics,etc.)
is the concern to represent linguisticdescriptions in terms of computer programs.The common bond in computational linguisticresearch is the computer, or stated somewhatmore broadly, the information processingapproach.
However, while this commoninterest does serve to distinguish this formof linguistic research from a growing numberof others, it does, I believe, masque somemore elemental differences over the purposesof using computer programs to describelanguage.
There seem to me to be twocomplementary but ultimately differentdirections in computational linguistics; the122first is concerned primarily with improvingand developing the software technologywhereby computers can use and processnatural language; under this heading wouldbe machine translation, question andanswering systems, automated secretaries,and assorted text processing systems; thesecond is concerned with using the computeras a means of developing an accurate andempirically valid computational model of thelinguistic and cognitive behaviors of ahuman speaker.
To date these two interestshave been regarded as one; the rationalebeing that human beings and machines woulduse analogous mechanisms in theircomprehension and generation of language tomake the system work efficiently.
But ifone's goals are descriptive, then I don'tfeel that any such latitude is justified andthat the use of different models andapproaches should be justified withreference to certain theoretical criteriaand empirical evidence--to the extent it ispossible.
This of course, is not to say,that the two branches of research, thetechnological and the descriptive, will notor should not share their results orinfluence one another.
Only that they eachhave different objectives and hencedifferent methodological and theoreticalrequirements.Having made the distinction betweentechnological and descriptive forms ofcomputational linguistics, I am now going tohave to hedge a bit.
Because, whereas bothforms of research do differ with respect tospecific research objectives, they do sharea common meta-language and methodology, andare dependent upon that language for theirsuccess.
I am now referring to thedependence of computational linguistics uponabstract theories of programming andcomputation.
Yet even this distinctionbetween the abstract and the appliedmodeling is not so clearcut, as practicalprogramming requirements, such as languagecomprehension, affect the design ofprogramming languages, and they in turnaffect how specific problems are representedand understood.
However, I suspect that asthe field of computational l inguisticsmatures, the descriptive and thetechnological forms of research are going toexert different selective pressures oncomputational theory to produce differenttypes of programming languages, one beingmore specialized and efficient, and theother being more generalized and probablyless "practical".
Yet here too aqualification is needed, for where the moregeneral and human-like problem solvinglanguage is shown to have practical andtechnological uses, then it too will have atechnological application.Therefore, any advance in improving amachine's facility with natural languagewould analogously constitute an advance inour understanding of human languagebehavior.
The hedge word here, of course,is analogously, for it is not clear to mewhether a program designed for veryspecialized and restricted purposes can beany more than superficially analagous to ahuman speaker.
A simulated secretary forl!li!II!!t!I!i!,!
!example has far fewer concerns than anactual secretary and therefore is designedand programmed for more special izedpurposes.
Moreover, and perhaps mostsignif icantly, the simulated secretary hasno inherent intent ional i ty of its own; itdoesn't care what others think of it, itdoes not need to please, it isn'tdistracted, and it doesn't deplorechauvinism and resist demeaning requests.Certainly there are analogies between whatthe simulated and the real secretary do, asboth perform similar clerical and l inguistictasks, but these similar it ies are quite fewwhen compared to their dissimilar it ies.Moreover, it is highly quest ionnable whetherthe programming techniques and methods usedto model this very restr icted form ofbehavior can be easily general ized to othertypes of behavior.
Most experience inart i f ic ia l  intel l igence suggests thecontrary.
The point which I believe needsto be made is that while, yes, at somelevel, the information processing behaviorof machines and  programs is similar oranalogous to that of human beings, that forthe most part, this level is too general tobe of much use in understanding humanthought and speech at present.
Hence,computat ional  l inguist ics and art i f ic ia lintel l igence should begin to dist inguishbetween those research goals that aretechnological ly  or iented and those that areintended to be descript ive of human action.For if one's goals are purely technologicalsuch as machine translat ion or a questionand answering system, then one is certainlyjustif ied in using virtual ly any mechanismone wants.The problem is that in our ignorance ofhow higher order and unobservable humanproblem solving processes and mechanismswork, we have to rely upon experiments withabstract programming languages and simulatedenvironments just to give us ideas about howsuch mechanisms might work.
Certainly thisis a reasonable strategy to pursue at thislevel of abstract ion and experimentation.But when the intent then becomes theformulat ion of a computat ional  model of someform of human activity, then I believe thatthere is a need to provide some theoret icalor empir ical  just i f icat ion for the model.For example, if the model is of a humaninterpreter of discourse, does the modelmake the same mistakes as people do, does itresolve ambiguity in the same way, can itmake similar inferences from discourse aspeople, etc.?
To answer these questionsrequires considerably more empir icalevidence than we current ly have.The real issue here is accountabi l i ty.For programming languages and technologicalappl icat ions of computat ional  l inguist icsthis is re lat ively easy to determine.
Butwhen the intent is descriptive, that is,when a model is presented as represent ingsome human intel lectual  skil l or process,then the issue of accountabi l i ty  becomesmurky indeed.
For it is not enough to saythat it works, or that expert judges cannotdist inguish the model from the real thing;Weizenbaum's Eliza program showed how easyit is to attr ibute powers to the computer it123doesn't possess and Colby'sindist inguishabi l i ty  tests have similarlyshown the gul l ib i l i ty of trainedpsychiatrists.
Consequently there is a needon the part of descript ive computat ionall inguist ics to both specify the types oftasks a model of a speaker or l istenershould perform and in addition, to theextent it is possible, the manner in whichthey should be performed.The problem then becomes knowing whatit is one is want ing to describe and accountfor.
And this is no easy matter, for asWittgenstein noted (Wittgenstein, 1953),"the aspects of things that are mostimportant for us are hidden because of theirs impl ic i ty and famil iar ity (one is unable tonotice something--because it is alwaysbefore one s eyes)."
Chomsky makes a similarpoint (Chomsky, 1970) "As native speakers wehave a vast amount of data avai lable to us.For this reason it is easy to fall into thetrap of bel ieving that there is nothing tobe  explained, that whatever organizingprinciples and underly ing mechanisms mayexist must be "given" as the data is given.
"Tradit ional ly  l inguists -- Chomsky amongthem -- have focussed upon the grammaticalaspects of language usebecause  it was so"given" and assumed that in accounting forthe generat ion of grammatical  utterancesthat they have in some way described atleast some of the mechanisms involved in thegenerat ion of human speech.
But as MaxBlack (Black, 1970), and a number ofsocio l inguists  have pointed out (Hymes,1972; Labov, 1974) to be able tocharacter ize the grammatical i ty  of alanguage with a f inite set of rules does notmean that speakers of that language uti l izesuch rules in their speaking.
Therefore tomy mind there is the real question of thevalue of such descr ipt ions in account ing foreither the individual  or the col lect ive useof language.
Consequent ly  when dealing evenwith the most obvious of l inguistic "facts"there is a need to consider the more generalrole of language as a communicative, problemsolving, and expressive medium.
Simi lar lythere is a need to character ize the type ofexplanat ion being sought; whether we want toexplain language behavior in terms ofreasons and intentions, or whether we wantto describe it extentional ly,  in terms ofcauses.This latter dist inct ion is one whichToulmin (Toulmin, 1970), Radnitsky(Radnitsky, 1970), Dennett (Dennett, 1975)and Goffman (Goffman, 1974), make in theirvarius dicussions of the types ofexplanat ions appropr iate to the human orsocial sciences.
Taking Toulmin's argumentfor the moment, causes are essent ia l ly  likephysical laws, as they are beyond ourcontrol, whereas "actions done for reasonscan be regarded as appl icat ions ofprocedures (methods of calculat ion,techniques, rituals, or other formal izedmodes of behavior) that we have learnedduring our life time."
While ideal ly it maybe possible to explain human languagebehavior in terms of causal descript ions,for example by neurological  models, it isdoubtful that this is the type ofdescr ipt ion that computat ional  l inguist icsis seeking.
Rather the appeal of thecomputat ional  approach is precisely in itscapacity to characterize the symbolicprocedures that we use and have learned.
Ifthis or ientat ion is accepted, then I believethat the obvious conclusion to be made isthat language behavior should be describedand explained as a learned intentionalactivity.
Going one step further, then, oneof its goals should bethe  explanation ofthe various reasons and purposes fordifferent types of l inguistic behavior.However, to answer such questionssat is factor i ly  requires a twofolddescr ipt ion of the reasons for a proceduralaction.
For taken from a histor ical  ordiachronic perspective, a given procedure iscreated to solve a part icular set ofproblems at a part icular time; hence itsexistence or reason for being is set intime.
However, the same procedure may thenagain be used at some later time to achievesome other action perhaps unrelated to thefirst, and therefore has a reasonindependent of its derivation.Consequently,  the reason a part icularprocedure was used can be explained in termsof the reason for its coming into being, orin terms of the immediate effect or resultit was invoked to achieve.
Psychotherapy isfull of such cases: "Why do you smoke?
""Because I was bottle fed" or "Because Ilike the taste?"
Similarly, for example, inunderstanding a speaker's use ofintensi f iers or dubitat ives it is importantto know whether they have a specif ic localmeaning or whether they are a part of somestandard discourse style -- either personalor cultural.
For model ing purposes thedif ferences are important, as they entaildi f ferences in representation.III.
CONSIDERATIONS FOR A COMPUTATIONALTHEORY OF SPEAKINGSo far we have establ ished that thatsegment of computat ional  l inguist ic researchconcerned with descr ibing human speakersshould take some init ial  steps towardssaying more concretely what it is trying toaccount for.
Certainly if we are going toevaluate a piece of research in this field,we should have some prel iminary consensus asto what a successful  model of speakingshould be able to do.
Likewise, thereshould be some common understanding as tothe types of descr ipt ions and explanationsthat are being sought.Taking the second question for themoment, I think that one of the uniquecontr ibut ions of a computat ional ly  basedmethodology to the human sciences is itscapacity to give formal and .teleologicaldescr ipt ions to complex forms of symbolicbehavior.
Therefore one of the principal,if not inviolate, ingredients of acomputat ional  theory of speaking should be acomputat ional ly  based methodology.
Thisrequirement would to my mind disqual i fystat ist ica l ly  based, and to a lesser extent,predicate calculus based, models.Furthermore, I feel that it is incumbentupon a modeler of human discourse to make124informed use of more advanced programmingconcepts, as problems resolved at this leveleventual ly contr ibute a richer and morecomplete representat ion at the purelydescript ive level.
For example, althoughnotions such as frames, mini-worlds, demons,actors, pattern matching and the like areessent ia l ly  programming concepts, they dorepresent solut ions or partial solut ions toprogramming complex symbolic environmentswhich in all l ikel ihood are far simpler thanthose encountered by the everyday speaker.Consequent ly  a computat ional  model ofspeaking requires these techniques andmethods both technical ly  and theoretical ly.Now f inal ly what a computat ional  theoryof speaking should in part, at least,account for.
To date we seem to know veryl ittle about the types of mechanismsinvolved in the creation, formation, andregulat ion of speaking (here also, isincluded discourse and conversation).
Andwhile it would certainly be reassuring tocompartmental ize speaking as a clearlybounded activity, both socio l inguists  andphenomenologists  have ef fect ively dashedthat hope.Since we can ' t  say what speakingis -- if indeed it is any single thing(language does a disservice here), we canpoint out some of those things that peopleappear to do while speaking.
It fol lowsthen that a model of human speaking shouldbe able to do these too.Seven Thin~s Speakers DoI.
People normal ly init iate astatement or a discourse out of adesire to be understood.
They havesome goal, or effect they want toachieve which they think speakingmight faci l itate.2.
Speakers alter what they are sayingaccording to the physical andsocial context in which they arespeaking.
This in turn affectswhat is said and how it is said.3.
Speaker's have models of to whomthey are speaking.
They shapetheir remarks according to how theyfeel they are going to beinterpreted.
They apparent lymonitor  what they are going to say,often making mistakes and changingtheir minds as they are speaking.4.
Speakers make effect ive use of thethematic organizat ion of theirconversat ions to directinterpretat ion,  to specify rolerelat ionships,  to qualify,intensify, and to amuse.5.
Speaking has a tone to it.Sometimes it is angry, other timesplacating.
It can also be erudite,reverent, direct, evasive,sardonic, etc.6.
Speaking can also be styl ized,having cultural  and sub-culturalJII!iI,|,iSi,t!i!I ,I!iliconstraints on what is said and howi t  is said; for example, Blacknarrative styles.7.
Speakers make effective use ofidioms, "buzz words", vernacularexpressions, slang words to expressthemselves.Very likely most all these aspects ofspeaking appear as obvious, but toparaphrase the previous Wittgensteinquotation, it is often the obvious t~atescapes us.
The argument can be made thatyes, indeed, we will get to these things butlet us first write a program that firstspeaks grammatically.
I think that missesthe point.
Grammaticality is only oneaspect of speaking behavior, and one which Idoubt is as focal as it is made out to be.Grammar is just one of the means thatspeakers use to communicate their thoughts,intentions, and feelings to others.
Itshould not be that element around which allsubsequent investigations should be built.I feel that future work done with empiricaldata on speaking behavior will bear thispoint out and perhaps encourage thedevelopment of more comprehensivecomputational theories of speaking as anintentional and expressive human activity.If these theories are going to have adescriptive and explanatory value, they willat least have to be able to do these seventhings that human speakers "obviously" do.125REFERENCESChomsky, N., "Problems of Explanation inLinguistics," in Explanation in theBehavioral Sciences, Borger, R.,Cioffi, F., eds., Cambridge UniversityPress, p. 425-470, 1970.Dennett, D., Whv the haw of Effect Hill qot~o AwaY, forthcoming, 1975.Goffman, I., Frame Analysis, Harper and Row,1974.Hymes, D., Towards Communicative Competence,University of Pennsylvania Press, 1972.Labov, W., personal communication.Radnitsky, G.,Metascience,Books, 1970.Contemporary Schools ofScandinavian UniversityToulmin, S., "Reasons and Causes" inExplaqation in t~e Behavioral Sciences,Borger, R., Cioffi, F., eds., CambridgeUniversity Press, p. 1-26, 1970.Wittgenstein, L., Philosophica~t i~D_~/~?d~,  Blackwell, 1953.
