HOW EPISODIC IS SEMANTIC MEMORY?Andrew OrtonyUniversity of I l l inois at Urbana-ChampaignAt the end of his Phi losophicalInvest igat ions Wittgenstein (1963) notesthat the confusion and barrennes ofpsychology is to be explained not by theyouth of the science but by the conceptualconfusions that underl ie it.
I think onecould easi ly make a case for saying thatquestions concerning the dist inct ionproposed by Tulving (1972) between episodicand semantic memory general ly involveprecisely such conceptual  confusions.
WhatI propose to do in this paper is first toi l lustrate such a confusion, and then tosuggest a possible way round it.Addressing the question, "Is there asemantic memory?
", Schank (1974, 1975)argues that there is not.
Semantic memory,he claims, has been treated by psychologistsas being made up of words and relat ionshipsbetween them, and has been proposed as ameans of represent ing both the meanings ofsentences and the knowledge required tounderstand them.
This he believes is wrong;what we should actual ly do is to separateout a language- independent aspect, call itconceptual memory, dist inguish it fromlexical memory, and identi fy it withepisodic memory because the.re lat ionshipsbetween concepts in it "could only have beenacquired by personal experience.
"Consequent ly  the dist inct ion betweensemantic and episodic memory disappears,which is all to the good since semanticmemory is an i l l -conceived notion.The first confusion in this posit ion isfactual rather than conceptual.
It iss imply not the case that psychologists whohave worked on semantic memory proposed itas an associat ive network of words.
All theworkers cited by Schank expl ic i t ly deny thisin their work.
The dist inct ion which hewants to make, whi le valid enough in itself,is implicit  in all exist ing models, and isquite expl ic i te in the most recentformulat ion of Qui l l ian's model proposed byCol l ins and Loftus (in press), wherea l lowance is made for a dist inct ion betweenlexical and conceptual  associat ions, just asSchank proposes.
It is clearly a mistake toconfuse knowledge of words with knowledge ofword meanings.
In all models the role ofthe dict ionary on lexicon or lexical networkis to represent knowledge about words whichis not pr imari ly semantic, but, to quoteCol l ins and Loftus: "... is organized alonglines of phonemic (and to some extentorthographic)  s imi lar i ty.
"Schank bel ieves that semantic memory(excluding lexical memory) doesn't exist,and it seems that one of his chief reasonsfor this bel ief  is that the contents ofsemantic memory are acquired throughpersonal experience.
Now Schank might beright that the semant ic /episodic  dist inct ionis not worth very much, is not useful, ismis leading or whatever, but that the set ofassociat ions and other relations representedin a language- independent  memory "could only55have been acquired by personal exper ience"is quite irrelevant, in a sense, probablyfalse, and certa in ly does not justify theconclusion that Schank draws, namely that"conceptual memory is episodic in nature.
"The dist inct ion envisaged by Tulvingwas not one which could be inval idated bymerely c laiming a posit ion of extremeempiricism.
Tulving expressed thedist inct ion as that between a kind of mentalthesaurus, and an autobiographical  record oftemporal ly -dated events.
Generaly speakingmemory model lors have not made much use ofthe dist inction.
Quil l ian (1968, 1969),Rumelhart  and Norman (1973) and Anderson andBower (1973), for example, all seem, infact, to adopt the posit ion advocated bySchank precisely because they make no sharpdist inct ion between repressentat ions ofsentence meanings and of world knowledgerequired for understanding.
The mostnotable exception is Winograd (1972) whomaintains a separate record of the discourseto help with handl ing anaphoric references.It is widely bel ieved that semanticmemory is character ized by rigidh ierarchical  structures giving specialprominence to the notion of superset.
Onceone makes this assumption it follows ratherquickly that there are defects in the notionof semantic memory because it cannot handlea variety of problems which appear toor iginate from a r igidly h ierarchica l lyorganized knowledge base.
It is, I think,in this line of reasoning that the firstconfusion hides.
Yet, all that fol lowsfrom, for example, the observat ion thatpeople cannot ratt le off the fifty states ofthe union is that they don't have all ofthem equal ly access ib le from the concept ofstate; it says nothing about semantic versusepisodic memory.
Nor, incidental ly, does itshow that the superset relat ion isuseless -- rather, it shows that there maybe a l imited number of readily accessib leinverse superset relations, or exemplarrelations.Schank r ight ly objects that using ar igidly h ierarchical  system and storing init "plunger," "hammer" and "saw"ind iscr iminate ly  under a node for "tool"fails to represent the greater semanticc loseness between "hammer" and "saw" thanbetween one of them and "plunger."
Hissolut ion is to replace one staticrepresentaton with another, so that whilehis representat ion captures that greaterproximity between "hammer" and "saw", itfails to represent the s imi lar i ty of"hammer" and "plunger" that might berelevant in a context involving tools with(relatively) long handles.
If we want tocapture semantic s imi lar i t ies of this kindwe should not attempt to choose one staticrepresentat ion in preference to another.Rather we should be prepared to al lowcomprehension and retr ieval  processes tohelp out.
One such candidate is a spreadingact ivat ion model (c.f.
Col l ins & Loftus, inpress; Ortony, 1975); a model which al lowsact ivat ion from various sources(speci f ical ly input str ing and context) tosummate and act ivate concepts which mightnot have been act ivated above threshold byone source alone.
If one makes assumptionssuch as these about the processes thatoperate on the structures, it can be readi lyseen that one need not worry too much aboutwhich part icular static representat ion oneuti l izes in memory.
Probably there isl ittle to choose betwen them.
Providing wehave ~ way of represent ing all theinformation pert inent to a concept that weneed, act ivat ion levels, associat ivestrengths and cr i ter ia l i ty  can be invoked byappropr iate ly  defined processes to pull outthose re lat ionships which dominate inpart icular  contexts.
It might well be thatthe part icular structures that representwhat people know depend for their re lat ionalcharacter ist ics  not so much on rules for theconstruct ion of canonical  forms as on thepart icular  detai ls of the indiv idual 'sexperience.
Thus a man who cons istent lyuses forks to open cans might be expected tohave his concept of fork unusual ly c loselyassociated with his concept of can-opener(if he has one).
Viewed this way, it wouldseem that one man's plunger might indeed beanother man s hammer; a possibi l i ty  whichshould not be ruled out by imposingarbitrary structural  constraints.Being f lexible and being arbitrary arenot the same thing.
Sometimes, of course,one can be both.
A case in point isSchank's concept ion of context.
On the onehand it seems to be merely aconceptual izat ion,  for the only linkspermitted within a context are those ofconceptual  dependency plus the causal links.On the other hand "there is a sense in whichall of memory can be considered to be onebig context."
With a notion of context whichis so f lexible it is di f f icult  to see whatpurposes it serves.
Schank wants to saythat "going to a museum in Berl in" and"going to a museum in Boston" is an exampleof an intra-context  associat ion, whi le"going to a museum in Berl in" and "going toan old hotel (in Berl in?)"
is an example ofan inter-context  associat ion.
The reason isthat the former pair are simply examples of"going to a museum" episodes whereas thesecond pair are only related because of"shared propert ies."
But one might as wellargue that "hotel going" and "museum going"are within the same context because theyboth fall with in the general paradigm of"things I do when I'm away from home," or"vis i t ing strange or interest ing bui ld ings.
"There s imply are no compel l ing reasons tomake the d ist inct ion that Schank issearching for on the basis of context -sh l f tsof the kind he describes.
The confusionwhich I think under l ies this reasoning isfurther exempl i fed by the analysis of theprotocols of his daughter, Hana.
Schankwants to argue that Hana doesn't Jump aroundbetween contexts, yet in the context ofbirds f lying Hana jumps to "plane" because,Schank says, planes fly too, but that isjust a case of shared propert ies on Schank'sown analysis, so it must, after all,const i tute t ravers ing an inter-context llnk.Nobody would deny that there are somevery ser ious problems to be dealt withconcerning the structure of knowledge and56the processes that operate on them.
Thereare serious problems concerning context.There is no doubt that in different contextsdifferent re lat ionships and semanticconnect ions between concepts are going to berelevant to comprehension and memory (c.f.Anderson & Ortony, 1975).
There is also nodoubt, as Woods (1975) points out in hisexcel lent paper, that memoria lrepresentatons are going to have to be bothintensional  and extensional  \[2\].
Currentmodels have yet to make this d ist inct iona l though it is quite obvious that one mustkeep dist inct representat ions for nounphrases derived from predicates, and fornames.
Not very recent ly  the d ist inct ionbetween Richard Nixon (extension) and ThePresident of the United States ( intension)became qu i te  self -evident.
Ortony andAnderson (1974) descr ibe an exper iment inwhich subjects showed a marked tendency tomake recogni t ion errors depending on whetherthe noun phrase in a study sentence requiredan intensional  or extensionalin terpreta t ion .Cons iderat ions such as these areCerta in ly important in model ing memory, butthey do not relate to the semant ic /ep isod icd ist inct ion in any obvious way.
It isimportant to know which problems gotogether, and to know how and why (that isthe beauty of Woods" paper).
I think that ad ist inct ion between episodic and semanticmemory is also important, not because oftenuous connect ions to problems of knowledgerepresentat ion but because of more globalcons iderat ions concerning the nature ofknowledge.
Before explor ing this in moredetail, however, let us c lar i fy what issupposed to be d ist inguished from what.
Ad ist inct ion between episodic and semanticmemory represents a di f ference not so muchbetween dif ferent kinds of memory butbetween di f ferent kinds of knowledge inmemory.
It is the contents of memory thatwe dist inguish, not the memory itself.What I am going to suggest may seem tosome not to be a d ist inct ion betweensemantic and episodic memory at all.
On theother hand I think it captures some, atleast, of what Tulving intended and is auseful  and important d ist inct ion for AI andpsycho logy  alike.The current ly  fashionable re ject ion ofthe notion of an episodic /semant ic  memorydist inct ion seems to be based on the ideathat since everything we know, we know fromexperience, ther?
is l i tt le point in and noroom for the dist inct ion.
Here lurksanother conceptual  confusion -- a confusionof knowledge from exper ience with knowledgeo f  experience.
Phi losophers have longargued that a l though all knowledge mightar ise from exper ience it is not necessar i lyall given in experience.Consider the di f ference between apersonal  diary and an encyclopaedia.Typical ly  an encyclopaedia containsinformat ion about a great var iety oftopics -- or concepts.
Informat ion in anencyc lopaedia  const i tutes knowledge aboutthe concepts entered in it and consequent ly!||I|iIiII!|Ican be used to make inferences involvingthem.
A personal diary, on the other hand,const itutes a different kind ofknowledge -- knowledge about the individualwhose diary it is.
It would be possible, nodoubt, to produce an encyclopaedia from apersonal diary, but it would take a lot ofwork, a lot of inference and a lot ofassumptions.
What I want to suggest is thatthe knowledge in semantic memory can bethought of as the kind of knowledge whichone would find if one were to produce anencyclopaedia from his personal diary.
Itis knowledge which has been reorganizedaround concepts from knowledge or ig inal lyencoded around events.
It has the furthercharacter ist ic  that it is not embedded inproposit ional  verbs; it has been freed fromtheir bonds by using inferential  heurist ics;it contains knowledge which can berepresented by such proposit ions as "Allbachelors are unmarried," "Most swans arewhite," etc.
We all have knowledge of thiskind, but we couldn't possibly have acquiredknowledge about all bachelors or even mostswans by personal experience.
Of course,there was a personal experience involvedwhen the putative knowledge was acquired,but precisely this is the dist inct ion wemust make.
Probably I read in a book thatall bachelors are unmarr ied (a d ict ionaryperhaps).
So there was a personalexperience to the effect that "I read in adict ionary that all bachelors areunmarr ied."
But we cannot ident i fy theknowledge that we learned x under such andsuch circumstances,  with the knowledge x,str ipped of source and circumstances.
Whatour teacher tells us, or what we read onlyl icenses us to claim that we know that ourteacher told us, or that we readsomething -- it does not, alone, l icense usto know, as true, what it was we heard orread.
So, while all input can be tagged asto source, semantic memory somehowrepresents the untagged information, andthat untagged informat ion is not a record ofpersonal experience.
It is a record ofpersonal exper ience str ipped of whatevermakes it personal.
It is derived frompersonal exper ience but does not representit.
It represents, as it were, knowledgewithout the guarantee.Some years ago BBC TV showed a programin which was descr ibed the growing ofspaghett i  on spaghett i  trees in the south ofItaly.
Most of us would probably rejectthis notion as an absurd fabrication, butnot so for all the viewers; some "took itser iously."
A proposit ion descr ibing thepersonal exper ience might be something like"I saw a TV progrm which al leged thatspaghett i  grows on trees," which we canwrite as "I saw S'" where S" itself can berepresented as "A TV show al lege(d) that S"and where S represents the proposit ion"Spaghett i  grows on trees.
"The role of episodic memory in my senseis to store a record of the exper ience inthe general form "I exper ienced S'".
Mycontent ion is that bel ievers andnon-bel ievers of the spaghett i  story alikewould have stored some such representat ion,namely a representat ion of S" tagged withautobiographica l  information such asmodal i ty of input, relative time and so on.Except perhaps for acidheads and avidCartesians, most of us are wi l l ing to trustour senses most of the time -- we arewil l ing, that is, to infer S" from "I sawS'", but S" sti l l  contains sourceinformation.
Focus now on the knowledgerepresentable by the proposit ion, S,"Spaghett i  grows on trees."
If we were toincorporate this piece of knowledge in thedata base it could be used in all kinds ofinferences about spaghetti  (the crop dependson climate, the cost of harvest ing it mayvary, it is a fruit or vegetable, etc.
).However, in general  there is no simple wayof inferr ing S from S" and certainly no suchinferences about spaghetti  can be made fromS" alone.
The role I want to attr ibute tosemantic memory is that of a repository ofknowledge with the character ist ics  of S,knowledge, that is, which has been str ippedof its autobiographica l  reference, and itssource and c i rcumstances of acquis i t ioninformation too; always the result ofinference.Those of us who real ized that thespaghett i  sequence was just another skitfrom the sat ir ical  program Monty Python'sFlying Circus did not encode something likeS in semantic memory -- at most we encodedor represented something like S" whichrepresents source- f ree information orknowledge about a TV show but does notrepresent source-free spaghetti  information!Those who were duped, on the other hand,str ipped S" of its source and c i rcumstancesand represented the knowledge expressed byS.
Thus knowledge in semantic memory isderived from, but fundamental ly  di f ferentfrom knowledge in episodic memory.
Putativeknowledge which is potent ia l ly  semanticalways arr ives embedded in episodicknowledge; it can always be represented asbeing governed by a proposit ional  verb.I know a lot of things about Englandand a few things about Lord Nelson.
One ofthe things about Nelson that I know is thathe said "England expects every man to do hisduty," but that is not one of things I knowabout England.
England's expectat ions wereeither never suf f ic ient ly  relevant or neversuf f ic ient ly  true for me to have freed themfrom Nelson's claims.
The knowledge that Ihave about Nelson may be in semantic memorybecause it is free from the bonds of itssource -- in forgett ing the source I mayhave assumed it to be true -- but it onlygets into semantic memory if it is assumedto be true (enough).I ear l ier urged that semantic memory iscentered around concepts and that episodicis centered around events.
I think there isa sense in which episodic memory is centeredaround a concept, the concept of "self".
IfI were to become famous, many of the thingsin my personal diary might be entered in anencyc lopaedia  under an entry for me.Personal exper iences are all the exper iencesof an indiv idual  and since there has to be aconcept of self in memory one might arguethat episodic memory is merely the structureof knowledge associated with the concept of57the individual.
Such a conclusion I findquite unobject ionable.
It suggests that allinput and output is mediated through aconcept of the self.
Input, in it ia l lyrepresented there, may be transferred toother concepts under certain condit ionsthereby freeing it of its autobiographicalreference (that doesn't necessari ly mean itgets automat ica l ly  destroyed in its or iginalform).
Output can be represented as "I saidthat..
."
or by some other performative verb.It is interest ing that a character ist icfeature of generat ive semantics is that allsentences are dominated by a verbrepresent ing the speech act -- such a viewis of course quite a natural consequence ofthe prominence that I am suggest ing beattached to the concept of self.There are a couple of other reasonswhich incl ine me to support thisdist inction.
First there is a mass ofexperimental  research on encodingspeci f ic i ty which strongly suggests the needfor some such dist inct ion (see, for example,Watkins & Tulving, 1975).
Secondly there isthe rather mundane observat ion that wefrequently come across people who have "bad"memories.
The problem with such people isnot that they have inferior, or di lutedknowledge-bases -- they are not lacking inknowledge.
Their problem is the maintenanceof a record of personal input/outputexperiences.
They tend to absorb what theyconsider important, they are perfect ly ableto learn, but they can't remember where theyput their car, or to whom they lent a book,or from whom they heard something.
If allsemantic memory were episodic, they wouldhave to be stupid as well as forgetfullThere remains (as always) a number ofunanswered quest ions if one takes thisapproach.
The most important one, ofcourse, is how and when does information getinto semantic memory, and how and when doesit get lost from episodic memory.
Answersto these quest ions are beyond the scope ofthis paper, but some speculat ions at leastabout the first might start things off.
Inorder to infer S from S" inference based onsome or all of the fol lowing considerat ionswil l  have to be made: Is it relevant?
Thissuggests that not everything we experienceis worth recording in semantic memory (whatI ate for dinner on some arbitrary day, forexample).
How rel iable is the source?
If athree year old child tells me that all menare daddies I may find it relevant to what Ineed or want to know about the child, but Iam not l ikely to trust him as an informationsource about universal  qual i t ies of men.
Towhat extent does it confl ict with what Ia lready bel ieve?
The child's claim facesanother problem on this score.
One mustassume that the knowledge base can toleratesome degree of inconsistency, but as Quine(1952) suggests, some things may be muchmore diff icult to give up or revise thanothers.
Relevance or cr i ter ia l i ty  indiceswill handle this, together with degrees oftruth.
Is there independent corroborat ion?If some putative fact or procedure seems, onthe basis of what is already known, veryunl ikely to be true, independent evidencefor it may boost its degree of truth for me.5BThere are doubtless other considerat ions(many can probably be gleened from thebelief and att itude l iterature) but thegeneral point is that an assessment of adegree of bel ief  has to be made.
If athreshold is reached the thing has someposit ive degree of trutlh and can be str ippedof the source and c ircumstance information(perhaps with some modif icat ion),  and oncethis is achieved all is in order to free itfrom its bound form and to treat it as abone fide piece of knowledge to beincorporated into the exist ing structure insemantic memory.
Clearly an analysis ofspeech acts wil l  be required since the rulesfor freeing the putatiwe knowledge will bedifferent for performatves such as"convince", "promise", "prove," etc.The problems that we face are dif f icultand complex.
I am confident that they canbe solved, but  I am equal ly convinced thatto solve them in a sat is factory way is goingto require that our models develop fromideas which are both eplstemologica l ly  andpsychologica l ly  sound.
I have tried in thispaper to put forward some arguments and todevelop some ideas towards this end.REFERENCESAnderson, J.R., & Bower, G.H.
Human~ssociat ive memory.
Washington, D.C.:Winston & Sons, 1973.Anderson, R.C., & Ortony, A., On putt ingapples into bottles: A problem ofpolysemy.
Cognit ive Psychology, 1975, inpress.Coll ins, A.M., & Loftus, E.F.,act ivat ion theory ofact ivat ion.
PsvchologlcalpressA spreadingspreadingReview, inOrtony, A., Explorat ions in memory.
Urbana,Ill.
: Univers i ty  of I l l inois 1975 (mimeo)Ortony, A., & Anderson, R.C., Def in i tedescr ipt ions and semantic memory.Urbana, Ill.: Univers i ty  of I l l inois 1974(mimeo)Quine, W.V.O., MeSho~s of logic London:Routledge & Kagan Paul, 1952, PP.xi-xvii.Rumelhart, D., & Norman, D., Active semanticnetworks as a model of human memory, inProceedings of  the Thir~ Internat ionalConference o f  Art i f ic ia l  Intel l i~ence,Stanford, 1973, pp.
450-457.Schank, R.C., Is there a semantic memory.Castagnola, Switzerland: Inst i tuto pergli Studi Semantic i  e Cognitivi,  1974(mlmeo)Schank, R.C., The structure of episodes inmemory.
In D.G.
Bobrow and A.M.Col l ins (Eds.
), Re resent tion andunderstanding.
New York: Academic Press,1975.|IIiIIIIIJ~IIiiIiiIIIIIlTulving, E., Episodic and semantic memory.In E. Tulving and W. Donaldson (Eds.
),Organization of memory.
New York:Academic Press, 1972, pp.
381-403.Watkins, M.J., & Tulving, E., Episodicmemory: When recognition fails.
Journalof Experimental Psycholo~v: General,1975, 104, 5-29.Winograd, T., Understanding naturallanguage, Edinburgh: Edinburgh UniversityPress, 1972.Wittgenstein, L., ~hilosophicalinvestigations, translation by G.E.Anscombe, Oxford: Blackwell 1963.WOodS, W.A., What's in a link: Foundationsfor semantic networks.
Cambrdige, Ma:Bolt Beranek and Newman, 1975 (mimeo)59
