BAD-MOUTHING FRAMESJerry FeldmanUnivers i ty of RochesterRochester NYIt appears that many people in theAI /psychol inguist ics  community are like myold friend (in California) who said: "Howcan I understand something unless I believeit for a while."
This seems to me toindicate the role of "paradigms" such as"frames" in the study of thought.
Since Ido not, myself, work that way and also donot (despite years of the New York Review)function well as a critic of scientif icdevelopments, I wil l  l imit myself  to threerather concrete sets of remarks.
Theseconcern vision, interact ions with the worldand net models in the context of "frames".Much of the discussion of Minsky'sframes paper is concerned with visualperception.
There are a number ofconclusions about visual perception andvisual memory that result from the framesparadigm which appear to me to be wrong andeven wrongheaded.
The notion that we storea large number of separate views in purelysymbolic form is one such.
There is a gooddeal of evidence that people do usethree-d imensional  models (e.g.
Shepard) andthat they regular ly integrate several viewsinto a single visual model which seems to bethe predominate one (e.g.
stereopsis, motionparallax).
There are other examples of thissort, some of which are clearly the scars ofold battles against perceptions, analogmyst ic ism and the like.
None of these arebeyond incorporat ion into a frames paradigm.That this is true results from andi l luminates the main di f f iculty with theframes paradigm as a theory -- it seems tobe extensible to include anything at all.Without going as far as Popper ( ); we canask that a theory be at least conceptual lyrefutable.
We propose an ant i - f rameshypothesis  below.Another serious problem with a framesapproach to vision lies in the strongassumption of default values for slots.
Theassumption is that, when viewing a newscene, we are basical ly just ver i fy ing ourframe picture of it.
Here a l itt leintel lectual  history is called for.
Earlyefforts in machine perception (and muchperceptual  psychology) were concerned withvisual processes which operated independentof context.
We studied edge detectors,pattern c lassi f iers and algor i thms forpart i t ioning general stra ight- l ine drawings.This not only proved diff icult but offeredno promise of extension to typicalreal-world scenes.
There then came aconcerted effort to overcome (or circumvent)perception problems by giving programs lotsof domain knowledge.
This has been carr iedto the extreme of visual perception withoutvision, viz.
anything black and on a deskis a telephone.
The frames paper seems toapproach vision in this way.
Once again,there is substantial  evidence (andoverwhelming intuit ion) that this is notwhat occurs.
For example, people can92Iunderstand total ly unexpected imagespresented for quite short periods.
A recent mmstudy by Potter indicates that verbal | descr ipt ions (which could give rise to verymany images) are almost as eff ic ient as apreview for choosing a target in such a set.
mmTo return to the questions posed at Rthe beginning, one does not need toknow exactly what a thing wil l  looklike to detect it in a I /3-second iglimpse.
In fact, knowing the | exact appearance of a target wasl itt le better than knowing only itsgeneral  meaning, which suggests thta scene is processed rapidly to anabstract level of meaning before mintent ional  select ion occurs(Potter 1975).iWell; even Minsky doesn't claim the gframes paper is right -- only that it shouldhelp us ask the right questions.
In machineperception, it seems to be having a ?s igni f icant impact which I consider |negat ive .
Frames and the whole idea ofvision as most ly problem solving seem tohave subverted work on the understanding of aimages.
It has always been tempting to | avoid the hard detai led problems of realimages for the higher realms of abstractproblem solving.
The frames paper has hadthe effect (it real ly has) of sanct ioningthis retreat.
iMy second comment is an extension ofthis last point -- the actual effects of the mmworld on a "frames" process is much too | weak.
This has been a major concern of minelately.
Quoting from a recent paper:|"The wheel less student problem Smodels the real- l i fe problem ofbuying a used automobi le (in theUnited States).
A typical Inprocedure is first to read g newspaper advert isements andbul let in boards to assess thes i tuat ion generally.
Then, at mre lat ively low cost, one can ?te lephone various purveyors of cars i and inquire about them.
At somepoint, one must actual ly go to theeffort of seeing and driving ?certain of these.
There are gprofess ional  diagnost ic serviceswhich can be employed (atconsiderable cost) to further testthe car.
In each of these steps, ?one must decide when to stop that mstage and go on to the next one.One does not, of course, proceed instrict order; there wil l  normal ly ?be a l ternat ives at several  | dif ferent levels of invest igat ion.Notice that the "plan" itselfis trivial: read, telephone, look, Bdrive, profess ional ly  test and buy.
i It is the appl icat ion of this planto the world s i tuat ion which isdiff icult.
We believe that muchintel l igent act iv i ty  is |character ized by complexIappl icat ions of simple plans andthis bel ief  has led to concentrateon the closely related questions ofplan e laborat ion and execution.
"The point to be made here is that theworld does not hold stil l for us.
Theorieswhich propose a narrow channel between themind and the world have considerable value,but we wil l  have to move beyond them toachieve real explanatory or robotic power.It is the relat ively static nature ofthe frames paradigm which makes me mostuncomfortable.
I consider the mainsubstant ive claim of the frames paradigm tobe that knowledge is stored in re lat ivelycoherent chunks which change only slowly overtime.
The opposing hypothesis is the older"net" model which says that the col lect ion ofknowledge being brought to bear at a giveninstant is a rapidly changing function of thesituation.
Once again, we can blur thedist inction, but then I don't know what theframes paradigm is.Let us consider this question of staticversus dynamic clumping of knowledge.
We canassume, in both cases, that knowledge caninclude procedures, contexts and any otherclever things that we dream up (Bobrow andWinograd have dreamed up dozens).
Thequest ion is whether the high bandwidthconnect ions among knowledge primit ives can befairly static.
There are important reasonsfor hoping the frames hypothesis is true foranimals or could be employed by machines.The general advantages of part i t ioningcomplexity are well  known (Simon, Alexander).For any current or projected computers thereis a memory hierarchy which strongly favorscoherent chunks of knowledge re lat ivelyloosely coupled with other chunks.Unfortunately,  I see great di f f iculty withstatic frames of anywhere near the scalediscussed by Minsky.Try to introspect as you slowly read thefol lowing sentence:"Imagine yoursel f  walking into aroom; it is the master bedroom of aquiet Victor ian house, in a slum ofBombay, which has just had a fireand been rebuilt in modern style,except for the master bedroom whichis only half remodeled having itsdecorat ive panel l ing intact butbadly visible because of the thicksmoke.
"The sentence above causes severalshifts and ref inements of the image.
Thequestion is, of course, where are theframes.
It is possible that there are avery large number of room frames embodyingall the combinator ia l  poss ib i l i t ies hintedat above.
Alternat ively,  there could be asingle room frame that incorporated allthese possibi l i t ies.
Neither of thesea l ternat ives str ikes me as plausible.
Whatseems to happen is that we build our modeldynamical ly  as we process the sentence.
Theanti - frame hypothesis  here is that the93connect ions which are most impor tant(heavily used, etc.)
are not speci f iable inadvance.Let us return to the problem of buyinga used car.
I believe that what happens isroughly as follows.
We construct agoal -or iented subsystem making use of ourknowledge of cars, buying, our locale,fr iends who know about cars, etc.
Thissubsystem seems to have great internalcoherence and rely only s l ight ly on ourtotal world knowledge about e.g.
buying.The used-car -buy ing subsystem probably getsdrast ical ly  changed each time it isre invoked with only a few general pr inciplescarried over from its last incarnation.While it is active, the subsystem effectsmuch of our percept ion of the real world andof our thinking.
We notice differentthings, seek dif ferent people, makedif ferent mental  associat ions,  etc.
My mindboggles at trying to model a system of suchf lexibi l i ty,  but the frames hypothesis (as Iunderstand it) seems more l ikely to lead meastray than to help.REFERENCESFeldman, J. and Sproull, R., "The HungryMonkey", Technical  Report 3, Univers i tyof Rochester, 1975.Minsky, M., "A Framework for Represent ingKnowledge", MIT AI Lab Memo no.
306,1974.Popper, K., The Logic of  Scient i f icDiscovery.
London: Hutchinson, 1959.Potter, K., "Meaning in Visual Search",Science, 187, p.965, 1975.Shepard, R., and Meltzer, J., "MentalRotat ion of 3d Objects", Science, 171,p.701, 1971.
