SOME THOUGHTS ON SCHEMATAWallace L. ChafeUnivers i ty of Cal i forniaBerkeley CAI will try to summarize here a fewideas and questions that have arisen fromefforts over the past few years to develop amodel of what I call verbal izat ion: the setof processes by which a person convertsnonverbal knowledge into a verbal output.
Ihave been thinking mainly in terms of aperson who has experienced somethin~ whichhe later decides to tell about, a lthough theexamples given below will  be ofverbal izat ions of secondhand experience,acquired from hearing someone else tellabout it.
Even in the latter cases,however, I wil l  assume that much of theknowledge being talked about has been storedin nonverbal  form, so that the same kinds ofverbal izat ion processes must be applied.I find the most interest ing processesin verbal izat ion to be those in which thespeaker has to make a choice of some kind.The need to make choices arises becauseexperience is part icular -- it involvestokens which are local ized in time andspace -- whereas language has to operate interms of types.
Elements of experience haveto be interpreted as instances of types inorder to be verbalized.
And much of thiskind of interpretat ion takes place while thespeaker is speaking.
He may have in mind,for example, some part icular event orobject, but he cannot express that idea inwords until he has decided on aninterpretat ion that wil l  help to communicatemore or less ef fect ively what he is thinkingof.
Evident ly some interpretat ion of thiskind takes place during perception, andprobably some of it is accompl ished whilethe mater ia l  is stored in memory.
Thereremains much more, however, that has to bedecided on while the speaker is talking.The most direct evidence that this is socomes from (I) the fact that the samespeaker may be found to make differentchoices in verbal iz ing "the same thing" atdifferent times and (2) the fact thatspeakers hesitate a great deal in speaking,these hesitat ions occurr ing at points wheresuch decis ions are being made.While all these choices are alike inthat they involve the interpretat ion of apart icular  as an instance of a type, theyseem to be c lassi f iable into three dist inctkinds, defined by the nature of thepart iculars as well  as by the nature andfunction of the types to which thepart iculars are assigned.
I like to thinkof verbal izat ion as beginning with a speakerwho has, at the outset, a holist ic idea ofsome incident or story he wants tocommunicate through language.
This init ialchunk is too full of content to becommunicated direct ly in anything more thana gross summary ("A funny thing happened tome this morning"),  and must therefore bebroken down into smaller chunks.
Thisprocess of "subchunking" is evidentlygoverned by the existence in the speaker'smind of patterns which I have been cal l ingschemata.
He might, for example, interpret89the init ial  chunk as an instance of schemaX, which then dictates that certain smallerchunks may or must be included.
Each ofthese smaller chunks may in turn beinterpreted as an instance of some schema,and so on in a largely hierarchical  fashion.My discussion here wil l  mainly involvethese schemata, but I need to say a l ittleabout the other two kinds of choices thatare made during verbal izat ion.
What thespeaker is aiming at in breaking down largerchunks into smaller ones is to arrive atchunks that are of opt imum size to beconverted into sentences.
When he hasreached that stage, the speaker is able totake a chunk and, instead of schematiz ing itfurther, to interpret it as an instance ofwhat I have been cal l ing a frame (in thesense of "case frame").
Typical ly the chunkat this stage wil l  be an event.
Instead ofchoosing a schema, then, by which this eventwil l  be broken down into subevents, thespeaker chooses a frame by which thepart ic ipants in the event are factored outand assigned roles within it -- roles suchas agent, patient, or beneficiary.The third and last kind of choice thathas to be made during verbal izat ion ismot ivated by the need to find words orphrases that wil l  communicate the ideas thespeaker has of events and of the individualsinvolved in them.
This is the kind ofprocess that has been cal led categorizat ion.The choice of a category, while it is stil lfar from being fully understood, has beenstudied more than the other two kinds ofchoices and has at least the potential  ofshedding some light on the nature of allthree.I wil l  try at this point to i l lustratesomething of the nature of schemat izat ion(and, in passing, of framing andcategorizat ion) with reference to thefol lowing American Indian folktale.
It wasrecorded in the Caddo language (in severalversions by the same narrator at differenttimes), but the points to be made can bei l lustrated in Engl ish translat ion.The Wildcat and the TurkeyIt is said that once, long ago, Mr.Wildcat was digging roots in order to make agarden.
Present ly  he heard someone talking.Mr.
Turkey was standing there.
Mr. Turkeysaid, "Well, well.
You are busy.
What areyou doing?"
'!
I 'm digging roots to make agarden.
What are you doing?"
"Nothing.
I'mjust looking around."
"You'l l  be in my way,"said Mr. Wildcat, and he caught him,plucked him, and said "Go over to my housewhere my wife is.
Tell her to cook you so Ican eat you for lunch."Mr.
Turkey went off and came to whereMrs.
Wildcat was.
She was pushing a cradleand singing.
Mr. Turkey said, "Yourhusband over there sent me to tell you thatyou should make some parched corn for me.After you've made it I'll go along."
She gotthe corn, made the parched corn for himquickly, and he left.He went some distance, unti l  he came toa place way over there where a l ittle deerwas lyinK by a big log.
Mr. Turkey cl imbedup on top.
The little deer yawned and said,"kakkudikE;nu?,nu?."
\[This means in Caddo"I'm sleepy."
The last syllable, nu?, whichthe deer repeated, means "turkey".\] "Oh,"said the turkey, "he knows my name!"
Thedeer kept yawning and repeating,"kakkudik~:nu?,nu?.
"Just at that time Mr. Wildcat arr ivedhome.
"Did you cook him?"
he asked.
"Whatdo you mean?"
asked Mrs. Wildcat.
"Theturkey I sent."
"No.
He came and said Ishould fix him some parched corn.
After Imade it for him he put it on his back andleft."Mr.
Wi ldcat fol lowed him and caught upwith him some distance away.That is why he eats him raw.The init ia l  chunk from the speaker'smemory, the chunk which const i tutes theentire story, seems first to have beenbroken down into the plot -p lus-moral  schema.That is, the speaker knew -- ordecided -- that this was a story to beorganized into a plot fol lowed by a briefsentence in which the plot was said to be anexplanat ion of some well known generalphenomenon; in this case the fact thatwi ldcats eat turkeys raw.
There is much tobe said regarding this init ial  schema,including the possib i l i ty  that it is not anative American schema at all, but one thatwas introduced from Afr ica by way of UncleRemus type stories.
But the point here isthat this story is one instance of a schemathat came to be very frequent ly used amongthese and other Indians.The first breakdown of the plot i tselfis into five episodes, each clearlydef inable in spat io- temporal  terms.
Thatis, each has to do with something thathappened at a coherent location during acoherent segment of time.
It may be thatthe schema to which the organizat ion ofthese episodes conforms is unique to thispart icular  story.
On the other hand,further study of Caddo stories might showthat the set-up in Mr. Wi ldcat 's  garden,fol lowed by the trick played on Mrs.Wildcat, fo l lowed by the d ivers io~ with thedeer, fo l lowed by the discovery of thetrick, and ending with the disposi t ion ofthe turkey conforms to a more general ly  usedschema.
It would not, at least, besurpr is ing to find other stories in whichthese elements are put together in the sameway.In any case the schema by which each ofthese episodes is i tself  broken down is onethat is used very frequently.
This is whatmay be cal led the visit schema.
In it,protagonist  A is engaged in some background~ct iv i tv  as the episode opens.
Then comesprotagonist  B's arr ival  on the scene.
Therefol lows a conversat ion between the two.Then some action is taken, usual ly byprotagonist  A but af fect ing protagonist  B,and f inal ly there is the departure of thelatter.
This visit schema appears over andover, not only in this story but in numerousother stories that these people tell.Furthermore, it appears to be a favoritepattern for the organizat ion of much ofCaddo real experience, in which vis i t ing isan extremely common activity.
Certa in ly itis of considerable interest that schemataare not just ways of' organiz ing what onetalks about, and not even just ways ofinterpret ing .reality, but also ways oforganiz ing one s everyday behavior.Given this schematic organizat ion,  wemight also use this example to glance atframing and categorizat ion, the other twoverbal izat ion processes involving choice.As an i l lustrat ion of framing we can takethe clause in the last sentence of thesecond paragraph which reads, "\[she\] madethe parched corn for him."
In this versionthe speaker chose to frame the event interms of an agent (Mrs. Wildcat),  a patient(the parched corn), and a benef ic iary (Mr.Turkey).
At another time when this speakerto ld  the same story she expressed the sameevent with the words, "She pounded it."
Herethe frame was different, being no longerbenefact ive but expressing rather an actionperformed on an object.
And in this versiona di f ferent categor izat ion was chosen also.The event was interpreted as an instance ofpounding, not of making.But to return to schemata, there are anumber of unanswered or only part ia l lyanswered quest ions regarding schematizat ion,of which I wil l  mention here only three.First, what are the essential  ingredients ofa schema?
Studies of actual verbal izat ionssuggest that a schema must define a set ofevent (and situation) types (such asbackground activity, arr ival  etc).
A chunkof (direct or recal led) exper ience isevident ly  interpreted as an instance of theschema when some of the events included inthe chunk conform to these types.
How aperson establ ishes such conformity is not atall clear, but presumably the process iss imi lar  to that involved in categor izat ion.A schema must also involve the relat ionsbetween these included events: temporal  andcausal relations, for example.
In the visitschema the arr ival  must occur while thebackground act iv i ty  is in progress, and soon.
One would like to know more about thekinds of re lat ions that are found here.
Andthe chunks within a schema quite c lear lyhave di f ferent degrees of sal ience.
In thevisit schema the arr ival  and conversat ionevents seem to have the highest sal ience, asjudged by the fact that they are usual lyment ioned whi le other elements may not be.It would be nice to know more about thedeterminants and effects of sal ience.The second quest ion is best understoodagainst the background of another example.
(One problem with discussing discourse isthat each example occupies an entire page.
)90IIIIIIiIIIIIIIIIIIILondon BridgeOnce there was a man in Winchester whodreamed that if he went to London Bridge hewould hear something that would be veryuseful to him.
A week later he had the samedream again, and a week after that he hadthe dream a third time.
So he decided hewould see whether there was anything to it.He traveled to London and stood on LondonBridge for many hours, until his patiencewas nearly exhausted.
Final ly he wasaccosted by another man who asked him why hehad been wait ing there so long.
After somehesitation, he told about his dreams.
Theother man laughed, and said that he too hadhad a curious dream the night before, to theeffect that if he went to a town namedWinchester and dug under a certain tree hewould find a pot of gold.
He r idiculed thewhole idea, however, and said that he didnot even know where Winchester  was.
Thefirst man decided there might be someadvantage in secrecy, and said that he didnot know either.
But he immediatelyreturned home and dug under the tree whichthe man in London had described.
He found apot full of gold, and on the lid of the potwas an inscr ipt ion in a language which hedid not understand.
The pot together withits lid were put on display at the vi l lageinn, and one day a scholar stopped at theinn and was able to translate theinscripion.
It said, "Look lower; wherethis stood, is another twice as good."
Theman who had found the pot heard of this andreturned to the tree, where further digginguncovered another pot which contained twiceas much gold as the first.At the highest level this storyconsists of two major parts, the second ofwhich begins with the words, "and on the lidof the pot was an inscr ipt ion.
.
."
If thestory ended before these words (as in factin some versions it does), it would stil l bea perfect ly good and complete story.
But ofspecial interest is the fact that there is aschema in the first part which is used againin the second.
This schema consists of apuzzle being presented (through the dreamsor through the inscript ion),  of a solut ionto the puzzle being provided by somestranger, and of a payoff result ing from thesolution.
But this schema seems lessobvious than the visit schema in the Caddostory.
It is not so directly defined by theovert events, and is something that peoplewho hear the story are not l ikely to beimmediately aware of.
It is also lessdirect ly ref lected in the way the story istold.
(One may note that the two instancesof this schema, the two major parts of thestory, are not even separated by a sentenceboundary, let alne a paragraph boundary.
)The question, then, is whether some schemataare more abstract than others.
Again, thedeterminants and effects of the degree ofabstractness are not whol ly clear.The third quest ion is a methodologica lone.
I don't bel ieve it is real ist ic  tosearch for a discovery procedure forschemata.
Given a part icular verbal izat ion91there is unl ikely to be a recipe anyone canapply to it to come up with a schemat icanalysis.
Like other theoret ical  entities,a schema takes imaginat ion and intuit ion toferret out.
But we might nevertheless hopethat there are object ive ways of val idat ingand demonstrat ing the existence of a schema,once hypothesized, so that differentinvest igators wil l  agree.
I gave the LondonBridge story to a class of fifty people whohad been told a l ittle bit about whatschematc analysis involves, to see how manyof them would come up with thepuzz le-so lut ion-payof f  analysis to which myown intuit ion had led me.
Just over onequarter of the class produced analysesessent ia l ly  identical  to mine.
Probably thepercentage could be raised with furthertraining of the analysts.
But one is leftwith the quest ion of how object ive any suchanalysis is, and how the methodology ofschema research can be made to conform toacceptable scient i f ic  standards.
