WHAT MAKES SAM RUN?SCRIPT BASED TECHNIQUESFOR QUESTION ANSWERINGWendy LehnertYale Univers i tyI.
INTRODUCTIONThe A~I.
group at Yale has developed aprogram SAM (Scr ip tApp l ie r  Mechanism) whichmodels processes in story understanding~The basic theoretical  construct underly ingSAM is the notion of a script (Schank &Abelson 75)~ Script based knowledge ismundane information which tends to lie inthe periphery of consciousness~ Going to arestaurant, watching a footbal l  game, takinga bus, and paying bills are examples ofscript activit ies.
Scripts describesituations which are frequently encounteredwith negligible or predictable variat ions~People in situational scripts are seldomconscious of script related actions~ Theacts which define a script are things whichpeople automatical ly  do or expect to occursSince a person who has not seen a footballgame will not fully comprehend stories aboutfootball games, we assume script basedknowledge is used in story understandingsSAM uti l izes a restaurant script inorder to paraphrase, summarize, and answerquestions concerning stories about eatingout in a restaurant~ The question answeringtechniques described in this paper weredevised as SAM evolved~The fol lowing story is an input  storywhich SAM has processed:John went to a restaurant~ Thehostess seated Johns The hostess gaveJohn a menus The waiter came to thetable~ John ordered lobsters Johnwas served quickly~ John left a largetip~ John left the restaurantsSAM responds in a sample question answeringsession:Q~ Why did John go to a restaurant?A .
So John could eat.Q~ Did the waiter give John a menu?A.
No, the hostess gave John a menu.Q.
Why did the hostess give John a menu?A.
So John could ordersQ.
What happened when the hostess gaveJohn a menu?A~ John read the menu.
The waiter sawthat John was at the table~ The waiterwent to the table~Q.
What did John eat?A~ Lobster.Q.
Who brought John the lobster?A.
The waiter brought John the lobster.Q.
What happened when John ate thelobster?16.A, John indicated to the waiter  that hewould like a checks The waiter gaveJohn the checks John remembered thatthe waiter had served the lobsterquickly~ John left the waiter a largetipsQ~ Did John enjoy the lobster?A~ Probably~Q.
Who paid the bil l?A~ John.Q.
Why did John pay the bil l?A, So he could leave.II.
INTERPRETING QUESTIONS:FOCUSESTABLISHINGA recurr ing issue in natural languageprocessing which is part icu lar ly  evident inquest ion answering is the problem of focus~What is interest ing about a statement?
Whereis attent ion directed?
What aspects of astatement are s igni f icant?
Many quest ionshave more than one acceptable answer and toa large extent people manage to agree onwhich answers seem most natural.
Theappropr iateness  of a response is a functionof focus~ Questions usual ly have a focus(or emphasis) which renders one responsemore appropr iate than another~Consider the sample input story aboveand the quest ion "Did the waiter give John amenu?"
The most natural  answer to this is"No, the hostess gave John a menu."
Toarr ive at this response we must go beyondthe original  yes or no quest ion and answer asecond quest ion "Who gave John a menu?DID THE WAITER GIVE JOHN A MENU?/ \YES NO\WELL THEN, WHO DID?\THE HOSTESSThe interest ing problem here is how wepicked up this second questions By going onto ask who gave John the menu we haveinterpreted the or iginal  quest ion to focuson the actor who executes the transfer ofthe menus How did this emphasis arise?
Wecould have gone on to ask "Well then, whatdid the waiter give John?"
or even "Wellthen, what did the waiter do?"
Emphasis inthis direct ion would el icit answers like:No, the'waiter  gave John a checksNo, the waiter brought John his meal~No, the waiter took John's ordersWhile each of these' is an acceptable answer,they are less natural  than:No, the hostess gave John a menusSo to arrive at the best answer we have tofocus on the actor being the most importantor interest ing component of the question.How do we do this?CONJECTURE:WHEN GIVEN A CHOICE OF FOCUS,TAKE VARIATION OVER EXPECTATION.Th iscon jec ture  is based on the premise thatvariables are more interest ing thanconstants, i.e.
the unexpected is moreworthy of attent ion than the expected.In general, implementing such a rulemay be hard, but within the context of ascript, it's easy.
Every script ischaracter ized by a set or sequence ofact ions specif ic to that script.
In arestaurant the patron expects to receive amenu, sit down at a table, order, eat, pay,etc.
Expected acts such as these areconstants within the script.
We aresurpr ised to hear things like:John went to a restaurant but hedidn't eat.John went to a restaurant and didn'tpay the check.When John went to the restaurant hesat on the floor.In these cases our expectat ions have beenviolated because the script constants ofeating, paying, and sitt ing at a'table havebeen contradicted or over-ruled~ When givena question, we examine the quest ionstatement in order to establ ish whichcomponents comprise a script constant.
Oncewe know which script constant matches ourquestion statement, we take the object offocus to be that element of the questionstatement which is not a part of the script?
constant (if one exists).
Since thisextraneous element should be a scriptvariable (being non-constant) we haveestabl ished the appropr iate focus.In our example, the act of transferr inga menu to the patron is a script constant.We expect an ATRANS of the menu to John.Who gives him the menu is a script variablesince we would not be surprised to hear itwas the hostess or a waiter.
Perhaps eventhe cook gave him the menu or he got ithimself.
A similar s i tuat ion occurs whenJohn gets the check.
We expect him to get acheck, but the actor of the transfer isvariable.
Of course these variables assumedefault bindings in the absence of expl icitdata; unless I hear otherwise, I assume thewaiter  brings the check.Whenever the answer to a did-quest ionis "No", it is natural  to augment thenegative response with a correct ion orexplanat ion of some sort.
There are twoclassi f iable situations when the init ialresponse is negative.
In one case a focusexists and can be determined by our rule (asin the waiter giving John the menu).
In theother case no focus is found in thequestion.
No focus is found in "Did John17.sit down?"
or "Did John pay the check?
"because the actions in question are fullscript constants with no possibi l i ty ofvar iat ion within the expectat ions of thescript.
In  such instances where no focusexists the expectat ions of the script havebeen violated.
(John should have sat downand he should have paid the checks) Wheneverexpectat ions are violated, the naturalquest ion to be asked is "How come?"
This isequivalent to "Why didn't John sit down?"
or"Why didn't John pay the check?"
Answers tothese wil l  either be wierd-or iented answersor inter ference-or iented answers (see partIV).
When the or iginal  quest ion statementdoes have a focus, the answer is found bymatching the constant part of the statementagainst the script acts.
Once a script actis matched, we instant iate the variableb~ndings and return the result ingconceptual izat ion as the best augmentat iveanswer.So in applying the rule of var iat ionover expectat ion (V/E) to the question "Didthe waiter  give John a menu" we identi fygiving John a menu as a script constant andthe actor binding as a script variable.Therefore the focus of attent ion falls onthe actor, and we augment the minimal lycorrect response "No" with the most naturaladdit ion, "the hostess gave John a menu.
"Script variables also occur ininstrumental i ty,  manner, mode, and timefil lers, e.g.
"Why did John drive to therestaurant?"
If we're in the restaurantscript, we expect John to get to therestaurant.
How he gets there is variablesApplying V/E to the question, we establ ishthe focus to be on driving.
"Did John eathis meal in 10 minutes?"
We expect John toeat his meal.
How long it takes him isvariable.
Applying V/E we determine thefocus to be on the time it took John to eat.If more than one variable occurs in aquestion, some hierarchy must be invoked toestabl ish the focus.
In answering "Why didJohn drive to the restaurant at 4:00A.M~?
"we presumably find that going at 4:00A.M.is more interest ing than driving.
Peopleneed to be able to resolve focus in order tounderstand what a question is driving at~"Why did John rol ler skate to the restaurantat 4:00A.M.?"
tends to have the effect oftwo different questions: "Why did he rol lerskate?"
and "Why did he go at 4:00A.M.?"
Theambiguity in this question results from theambiguity of focus.
We have troubledeciding which is more interesting, the modeof transportation, or the hour.
When focusis not resolved a question seems confused ori l l -def ined.III~ ANSWERING WHAT-HAPPENED-WHEN-QUESTIONSPart of SAM's internal representat ionfor the input story is a causal chain ofconceptual dependency diagrams (Schank 75).A causal chain is an a l ternat ing sequence ofstates and actions in which each stateenables the fol lowing action and each actionresults in the fol lowing state.Understanding the relat ionship between twoconceptual izat ions is atref lected by the abi l i tycausal chain between them~least in partto construct aIf I hear that John had a bad caraccident, I am not surprised to hear thathis car was wrecked, or that he was injured,or that Mary doesn't want to ride with himany more.
These all relate to the accidentas causal consequences~ Even whenexpectat ions are violated as in "John was ina car accident.
He was overjoyed."
We tryto make sense out of it by construct ing themost feasible causal chain we can: Maybe thecar was worthless anyway and John was nottoo badly hurt but he was insured andthey're giving him a big sett lement and hecan really use the money for some reasonsWhen SAM processes an input story,causal chains are establ ished betweenconsecutive input conceputal izat ions~Generating causal chains in a s ituat ionalscript is easy because the script containsall the expected actions which wil l  fill ina chain between any two acts of the scriptsA major part of the script data baseconsists of various causal paths throughoutportions of the restaurant script.
When SAMreceives a what-happened-when question, itmatches the act in question against itscorresponding script counterpart and simplyreturns that portion of the causal chainrepresentat ion of the story which beginswith the act in question and ends at thenext conceptual izat ion mentioned in theinput story~IV.
ANSWERING WHY-QUESTIONSOnce we have interpreted a question byestabl ishing its focus, we stil l have toanswer the questions The most interest ingclass of questions in this respect seem tobe why-quest ions~ There appear to beroughly four types of answers towhy-quest ions~ Two are script based and tworequire data outside of scripts~ The scriptbased answers have implementable heurist ics(currently incorporated in SAM)~(I) WIERD-ORIENTED ANSWERS(non-script based)In any script context we may get anunexpected occurrence which is relevant tothe scripts Answers dependent on the wierdoccurrence may relate back to it in a numberof ways.
Consider the fol lowing examples:Ex.1: John went to a restaurant and brokehis wrist when the chair he was sitt ingon collapsed.
John sued the restaurant.Q.
Why did John sue the restaurant?A.
His chair col lapsed and he wasinjured.Ex.2: John went to a restaurant and foundout that everyone got a free drink oftheir choicer John ordered the cheapestdrink they had.Q.
Why did John order a cheap drink?A?
I have no idea.Ex.3: John went to a restaurant and ordereda hamburger.
When the waiter wascarrying it from the kitchen he droppedit on the floors John ate the hamburgerand leftsQ~ Why did John eat the hamburger?A~ He must not have known it wasdropped~In Ex~1, a causal chain can beconstructed between the wierd occurrence andthe act in questions The act in question isconsistent with our expectat ions after thewierd ocurrence; the chair col lapsing andresult ing injury are the causal antecedentsof John suing the restaurant~In Ex~2, no causal chain can beconstructed between the wierd occurrence andthe act in question, so we are at a loss toanswer the questionsIn Ex~3, our expectat ions are vio latedas in Ex~2, but here we can account for thediscrepancy, and we use the explanat ion asour answer~ We expect a causal chain whichincludes John refusing the hamburgers Sincethis construct ion is contradicted when wehear that John ate the hamburger, wereconstruct the causal chain and account forthe val idity of the new construct ion in ouranswersThe di f f icult ies in arr iv ing at answersof this type are apparent:I) Since scripts normal ly  run in thebackground of a story line and are rarelyin the foreground, we need to be able toidenti fy wierd occurrences asd ist inguished from commonplaceoccurrences which are irrelevant to thescript~ For example, how do we know thatsmoke coming from a wall is wierd andsmoke coming from an open barbecue pit ina steak house is OK~ Similarly, if Johnstands up and starts making a toast, thisis not wierd unless perhaps there is noone else at his tables Some very stronginference mechanisms or higher levelstructures must come into play in theproblem of recogniz ing wierdness~2) We need to know if the act in question isconsistent with the wierd ocurrence (asin Ex~1) or if it v iolates expectat ions(as  in Ex~2)~ This is equivalent toknowing when a causal chain can beconstructed between two conceptual izatonsand when no such chain exists~3) If our expectat ions have been violated,we  need to be able to construct feasibleexplanat ions whenever possible (as inEx~3).
Construct ing a feasibleexplanat ion is equivalent to construt inga bel ievable causal chain.
In Ex~3, thecausal chain behind our explanat ion isarr ived at by suppressing the inferencethat John knew about the waiter droppinghis hamburgers Since this is the key toa valid causal construct ion, we zero inon it for our answersIn general the problems of recogniz ingan unusual occurrence or construct ing acausal chain are major issues which are farfrom resolved~18.
(2) EXTERNALLY-ORIENTED ANSWERS(non-script based)Questions like "Why did John walk tothe restaurant?"
or "Why did John order ahamburger?"
require data from outside of thescript.
Litt le can be sa id  about thesegeneral script exits until we have developedsome data structures outside of scripts~(3).
GOAL-ORIENTED ANSWERS (script based)These occur in one of two ways:I )  The focus Of the question (asdetermined by V/E) is a variable whosedefault binding is a character in thescript.2) The question has no focus (via V/E)~QI: Why did John go to the restaurant?
(focus:nil)Q2: Why did John go to a table?
(focus:nil)Q3: Why did the hostess give John a menu?
(focus:hostess)Q4: Why did the waiter give John a check?
(focus:waiter)Q5: Why did John pay the check?
(focus:nil)Each script has a static goal structurewhich consists of scr iptgoals and a set ofsubgoals.
The subgoals may exist ondifferent levels of detail.
The hierarchyof the restaurant script has only one levelof subgoals and one scriptgoal.
The goalstructure for the restaurant script lookslike:EATINGGOING TO BEING ORDERING PAYING --~ LEAVINGRESTAURANT SEATED / / /GOING TO GETTING GETTINGA TABLE A MENU A CHECKThe top level  of this structure contains thescr iptgoal  of eating~ The second levelrepresents the subgoals of the restaurantscript and the third level contains otheracts found in the script (not all shown).Goal-or iented answers are derived by thefol lowing rules:a) If the act in question is a subgoal, goto the next goal in the next level up.If no such goal exists, go to the nextgoal in the same level.b) If the act in quest ion is not 'asubgoal, go to the next goal in thelowest level of subgoals.c) If the act in question is a scriptgoal,there is nogoa l -o r iented  answer.
Itprobably has an external ly-or ientedanswer.
?Using the goal a lgor i thm wequestions QI-Q5.AI: So he could eat.A2: So he could sit down.A3: So he could order.A4: So he could paysA5: So he could leave.can answerNotice that this goal structure isor iented with respect to the centralcharacter of the script, in this case therestaurant patron.
If we were in arestaurant script with respect to the waiterwe would answer Q4 with something like"Because it's his Job" or "Because John wasdone eating".
Intr insic to all scripts is apoint of view.
(4) INTERFERENCE-ORIENTED ANSWERS(script based)These are similar to wierd-or ientedanswers but are dist inguished by being morecommonplace.
The restaurant script containsalternat ive paths which contain occurrencesof goal interference.
For example, if notables are available, we have interferencewith the goal of being seated.Ex.1: John went to a restaurant andordered a hotdog.
The waiter said theydidn't have any.
So John ordered ahamburger.Ex.2: John went to a restaurant and wastold he'd have to wait an hour for a,table.
John left.Ex.3: John went to a restaurant.
He readthe menu, became very angry and left.A goal interference predicts an actionwhich will be either a resolut ion orconsequence of the interference.
Thereforeany question which points to such aresolut ion or consequence is explained bythe interfer ing occurrence.QI: Why did John order a hamburger?At: The waiter said they didn't havehotdogs.anyQ2: Why did John leave?A2: He was told he'd have to waitfor a table.an hourQ3: Why did John leave?A3: He became very angry.19./1V.
THE THEORETICAL SIDE OF SAMThe problems of interpret ing a questionor f inding the best answer to a why-quest ionare both character ized by the necessity ofknowing what is interest ing about thequestion.
Interpretat ion is faci l i tated byestabl ishing focus.
Answering awhy-quest ion may entail  examination andconstruct ion of causal chains or knoweldgeof goal hierarchies.
In any case, thesolution to what is interest ing lies withinsome structural  representat ion of the story.When we are within the confines of a script,the problem is relat ively trivial since thestructures we need are predetermined andstatic.
Outside of a script we need dynamicprocesses which can generate the neededrepresentat ion as we go along.
To date,systems based on uncontrol led inferencingand proposit ional  reasoning have failed tobe effective precisely because no higherlevel structures were invoked to give theprocessing direction.
The di f ferencebetween a blind inferencing mechanism and aclever one is this crucial abi l i ty todetermine what is deserving of attention.By studying the structures implicit  inscripts, we may gain some insight concerningwhat types of guidance mechanisms exist andhow analogous structures may be generated incontexts beyond scripts.The proposed heurist ic of var iat ionover expectat ion is theoret ical lys ignif icant insofar as it suggests analternat ive to what might be called aproposit ional  approach to memory retrieval.Suppose we know that the host gave John amenu, and we need to answer "Did the waitergive John the menu?"
How are we to answerthis question without recourse to scripts orthe idea of focus?
Suppose we approached theproblem proposit ional ly.
One possible lineof analysis might entail  the fol lowingreasoning:(i) The act of t ransfer ing a menu to arestaurant patron usual ly occurs once inthe course of a dinner out.
(ii) The act of t ransfer ing a menu to arestaurant patron is executed by oneactor only.
(iii) The host and the waiter  are twodifferent actors.Given these three supposit ions and somedeductive reasoning capacity, we are in aposit ion to conclude that the answer to thequestion is "No".There are a number of problems with anapproach of this type.
In the first place,it is probably impossible to implement.
Weneed some very clever inferencing to pull(i) out of the blue.
Then deduction andinferencing must combine in some myster iousway to extract (ii) from (i).
All in all,the whole argument smells like theoremproving, a technique which has provedineffect ive and is certainly not the waypeople work.
But ignoring all theseobjections, even if you could implement it,the fact remains that this has simply notdone a very good Job of answering thequestion.
It yields only a minimal ly20.correct response and has no indication ofthe point of the question; there is no wayof knowing how to augment the init ialresponse "No".By examining non-scr ipt basedapproaches to this question, it seems clearthat the best possible answer can be derivedonly from a data base which enables us toestabl ish the focus of the question.
Thereis no way that the natural  answer to thisquest ion can be found without some sense ofwhat is interest ing about the question.VI.
CONCLUSIONSIn the area of memory organizat ion,there is much controversy over categor ies ofworld knowledge and corresponding models ofmemory.
At present, there is an ongoingdebate concerning ep isod ic  vs. semanticmemory (Tulving 72).
Episodic memoryemphasizes exper ient ia l  knowledge of theworld, while semantic memory accomodatesabstract ions derived from experience.
It isgeneral ly  conceded that people must haveboth episodic and semantic knowledge.Content ion arises when retr ieval  mechanismsare descr ibed which bias one data structureover another (Schank 74~ Ortony 75).
Theproblem of  course is which types ofknowledge are used for what purposes andhow.Ana lys i s  of memory retr ieval  mechanismsusual ly  proceeds along one of two routes.On one hand, there is speculat ion aboutmemory retr ieval  in general, withoutreference to things people actual ly do.
Onthe other hand, there are psychologicalexper iments which study very specif ic tasksthat people never encounter  outside of apsychologica l  test.
Neither approach hastaught us much about the nature of humanmemory.
The development of computer modelshas the dist inct advantage of forcing us toident i fy and account for memory processeswhich people rea l ly  have and use all thetime.Trying to answer whether or not thewaiter  gave John a menu led to the conceptof focus and a heur ist ic  for determiningfocus.
Quest ion answer ing using focus worksbecause it is founded on recogniz ing whatpeople find interest ing.
As people livefrom day to day, they exper ience variousact iv i t ies  and situations.
Some of theseact iv i t ies  are more engaging than others,and some s i tuat ions are more interest ingthan others.
If we can discover a metr icwhich assesses the relat ive interest -appealof assorted human experiences, then we canuse this metric to establ ish general focusin story understanding.
Whatever metric wedesign wil l  have to examine exper ient ia ldata bases since the phenomenon of beinginterested in something is inherent inexper ience and cannot be derived.A system relying on purely semanticdata will never know where to focus becausethe exper ient ia l  element of what isinterest ing has been dist i l led out of itsdata base.
It might be argued that perhapsa function exists which would operate on asemantic network of propositions andevaluate the focus of a statement or story.Suppose this could be done.
Then what isthe point of abstracting experiential datain the first place?
Why develop a purelysemantic conceptual representation if we reJust going to tu rnaround and recreate theexperiential data that's been thrown away?No  one is denying that people have theability to abstract principles fromexperience and acquire knowledge which isnot episodic in nature.
We all know thatmost swans are white and Ancient Greece waspolytheistic.
The issue is a question ofexactly where and how semantic knowledge isused in natural language processing.
SAMhas demonstrated the power of episodicmemory organization in the task of storyunderstanding and question answering.
Whileit is certainly not true that episodicmemory is go ingto  account for the memoryorganization underlying all thoughtprocesses, we are constructing models whichillustrate a theory of episodic memory inlanguage processing.REFERENCESOrtony, A., How Episodic is Semantic Memory?In Proceedings of ~beoretical ~sues  inNatural L~n~ua~e Processing, CambridgeMA, 1975.Schank, R.C., and Abelson, R.P., Scripts,Plans, and Knowledge.
Presented at the4th International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Tbilisi, USSR.August, 1975.Schank, R.C., Is there a Semantic Memory?Castagnola, Switzerland: Istituto pergli Studi Semantici e Cognitivi, 1974(mimeo).Schank, R.C., The Structure of Episodes inMemory.
In  D.G.
Bobrow and A.M.Collins (eds.
), ReDresentat lon  andUnderstanding.
New York: AcademicPress, 1975.Tulving, E., Episodic and Semantic Memory.In E. Tulvlng and W. Donaldson (eds.
),of Memory.
New York:Academic Press, 1972.21.
