IMPROVING METHODOLOGY*inNatural Language ProcessingWil l iam C. MannUSC Information Sciences InstituteMarina Del Rey, Cal i forniaSCOPEThis is a posit ion paper onunderstanding and improving the currehtstyles and methods of scientif ic work in theappl icat ion of computers to texts composedof elements from human languages, such asstories, dialogues and sentences.
It dealson ly  with kinds of research in whichacoustic issues are secondary or absent.
Itis written speci f ical ly  to precedediscussion at the Workshop on TechnicalIssues in Natural Language Processing.There are various or ientat ions towardvalue that tend  to get assumed rather thandiscussed at this point.
They need notconflict, but some select iv i ty is necessary.Very roughly, there is an or ientat ion towardunderstanding and scientif ic knowledge, andthere is an or ientat ion toward appl icat ionand practical  use.
Many people regardunderstanding as a near ly-necessaryprerequis ite to practical  accomplishment.That's the view in this paper, so wetherefore concentrate on scientif ic valueswithout denying the others.There is a great diversity ofacbivit ies that are carried out byrecognizable methods, for which seriousquestions of methodology could be raised.There are tool -bui ld ing and laboratory setupactivit ies.
We do not build l inearaccelerators or observatories,  but we putlarge efforts into tools anyway.
There arespeculat ive and exploratory act ivit ies thatinf luence the course of later, more formalwork.
Choice of phenomena to study is anabsolutely crucial  one of these activit ies.There are administrat ive act iv it ies forwhich methods are important.
Staff ing andseeking funds are also vital.
All of theseant ic ipate and support the creation ofspecif ic results and are vital to success.The act iv it ies that produce theknowledge that keeps the work going are of adifferent kind.
IT IS THESE CONSUMMATORYACTIVITIES THAT I FOCUS ON HERE, TO THEEXCLUSION OF ALL THE OTHERS.CONSEQUENCES OF METHODOLOGY CHOICEWe are current ly at a crucial stage inthe development of methodology, since wehave a s ignif icant history of experience,but a great deal of remaining f lexibi l i ty.For better or for worse, the methodologicalchoices made in the next few years by ourpresent leaders are l ikely to be with us fora very long time.
The formalresult -produclng style that we adopt is*(C) Copyright 1975, Wi l l iam C. Mann126part icular ly crucial for two reasons -first, because it ends up being the leastf lexible set of precedents, perhaps with theexception of basic presupposit ions, andsecond, because it produces a strong finalf i l ter ing effect on the results.
Theadoption of a stat ist ical  hypothesisevaluat ion framework leads to differentkinds of results.
Likewise, our formalapproach will produce its own kind ofresults and inherent l imitations.
So, wemust pay careful attent ion to our currentstyle.My general att i tude is that currentmethods can be very s igni f icant ly improved,and that doing so will have a very highpayoff with benefits far beyond theimprovements to present and contemplatedefforts.
The methods current ly in use areunder-examined and poorly understood, andtradit ions are still weak enough to al lowchanges.
There are attract ive a l ternat ivesto many common practices.PRESENT ADVANTAGESOf the great diversity of approaches tolanguage, the process approach representedat the workshop is uniquely capable.
Thetwo key methodological  problems in the studyof language over the last 2,500 years or sohave been the problem of rigor and theproblem of complexity.
The problem of r igorin the use of natural  language led to formallogics and to Godel.
The problem ofcomplexity has led to various strongreduct ions on the general phenomena, withtools Such as the Osgood SemanticDif ferential ,  or paired-associate tests.Sequent ia l -order  phenomena and individualuse of language tend to get badly obscured.Process theory approaches the problemof r igor with methods by which processspeci f icat ions are made very explicit.
Itapproaches the problem of complexity withcomputers, that can hold and make use ofvery large numbers of processes at once.The compatabi l i ty  and effective coverage oflarge col lect ions of hypotheses can nowactual ly  be tested.?
These are exciting, reor ient ingadvantages that make me prefer the processapproach to any other, to hold high hopesfor its success, and to want it to be builton good foundations.WHAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE?What do we want out of our methodology?Three character ist ics  of a methodology arepart icular ly  important:re l iabi l i tyef f ic iencyintegrat ive powerRel iabi l i ty  encompasses all of thosethings that make experiments t rustworthy atface value, including repeatabi l i ty,  c lar i tyIlII!IIIIIiIIiilII!,I!1IIIof def init ion and freedom from various kindsof c ircumstantial  effects that might beresponsible for success.
Eff ic iencyaddresses the effort required to achievepart icular results.
(You don't plan to dobasic genetics studies on elephants; you mayprefer fruit- f l ies as subjects.)
It dealsnot only with the costs of performing thework, but with support costs as well.Integrative power involves the scope of thetheories, what diversity of phenomena theycover, what subtheories they coordinate,what kinds of investigations theyfacil itate.In order to discuss current practiceswe need some representat ive example.
Theone here is del iberately simple and notidenti f ied with a particular developmenteffort.
However it is composed of elementsthat seem to be widely used.EXAMPLE OF A NATURAL LANGUAGE PROJECTStep I: Select a phenomenon:CONTRADICTIONStep 2: Select an input form:ENGLISH SENTENCESStep 3: Select an output form:ENGLISH SENTENCES THAT CONTRADICTTHE INPUT SENTENCESStep 4: Design and draft aprogram in the local language:MEGALISPStep 5: Debug on examples ofopportunity, selected to exercisethe code.Step 6: Publish:"CONTRADICTION IN NATURAL LANGUAGE"by Leader and Worker.SOME STRENGTHS IN CURRENT PRACTICEWe should hold on to the dist inct ivestrengths of our methods in any changes weplan.
These strengths are general ly directclassic consequences of the use of computersto hold models:Complexity of data and theory iseasy to accommodate.Time sequences and dependencies arepreserved.A diversity of hypotheses can beapplied and tested for consistencyin each experiment.All of these have to do withintegrat ive power, and on this dimension weare, at least potential ly, in very goodshape.SOME WEAKNESSESWe have some serious problems.
Hereare some recurring problems with the FORM ofthe work:127I.
Single experiments often takeyears to execute.2.
The act ivity is often treatedas programming and programdocumentat ion rather than science.The consequences are general ly thatthe data are poorly identif ied andpoorly chosen, the status of theprograms as theory is not clear,the business of making cleartheoretical  claims is neglected,and the relevance of the act ivityto exist ing theories that are notprograms is never established.
Theremainder of science is thus cutoff, and left wondering whether weare into science at all.3.
The attempt to perform ageneral transaction, such asSentence:Contradict ion,  stronglylimits the complexity of the inputthat gets actual ly addressed, withthe result that signif icantphenomena are missed.
The effectsof prior context, speakers" goals,tacit mutual knowledge of speakerand hearer are often attenuated bythe attempt to be general.4.
The unit of production is asystem.
Whole systems arediff icult to disseminate anddiff icult to judge as scienti f ichypotheses, and are not general lyunderstood or appreciated bynon-programming scientists.5.
Coping with ad-hocness is aproblem: The system runs theexamples, but what else it will dois unclear, or, the degree oftuning to the examples is unclear,or, the representat iveness of theexamples is unclear, or, ther ightness of the answers is onlyestabl ished intuit ively.We have problems with the CONTENT ofthe work.
There are many problems, whichmay be a healthy condition, but I want toattend to just one that seems to beotherwise.In the common notion, a naturallanguage is a scheme of communicat ion thatpeople use.
The fact that a language isused to communicate has strong consequences.For example, as languages change, theiradequacy for communicat ion must bemaintained.The communicat ion properties oflanguage are being ignored in a wide varietyof approaches, including processingapproaches.
Often, it is outside of theparadigmatic scope of the studies.Communicat ion deals with changingcorrespondences between the knowledge of oneindividual  or system and the knowledge ofanother.
It is more than relat ions betweenstr ings and strings, or relat ions betweenstr ings and generators of strings (syntax).It is more than relat ions between str ingsand a world or a data base (semantics).Communicat ion involves two activeprocessors, and an adequate theory oflanguage will specify some consequences ofthat fact.
By restr ict ing the view to asingle processor (or less), I suspect thatwe are cutting ourselves off from theorganizing principles that produce theregular it ies that we are trying to study.Some of the changes of style that Iwould suggest are implicit in ~heident i f icat ions of the problems cited above:Design clear data col lect ionmethods.State theoretical  claims thatare distinct from the programs.
(The claims may still containalgorithms, of course.
)Decommit from attempts to begeneral, except where an empir icaldemonstrat ion of general i ty isincluded in the work.Shift from focus on systems tofocus on algorithms.Do something to drast ical lyshorten the period required to dosingle experiments.Beyond these suggestions, the specialadvantages of case analysis should beconsidered.CASE ANALYSIS AS THE BASIS FOR AN ALTERNATEPROCESSING METHODOLOGYCase analysis as a basic scient i f icact iv i ty  is an attract ive alternat ive to thecurrent methodology sketched above.
Howwould it work?STEPS IN A CASE-ANALYSIS-BASED DEVELOPMENTINNATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSINGStep 1: DATA ACQUISITION.
Examplesof real-world use of naturallanguage are col lected.
Some areselected for detai led attention.Step 2: PHENOMENONIDENTIFICATION: The data areannotated and scored for part icularphenomena of interest.
Data can bescored for several phenomena atonce.
Scoring is performed bypeople who understand the languageand the c i rcumstances of the dataoccurrence, and who are givenexpl icit  instruct ions on what tolook for and how to annotate it.The result of this step is aCommentary on the data.Examples:a. Identi fy requests andjudge whether they are fulf i l led inrunning dialogue.128b.
Identi fy repeatedreferences to an object, action oridea in a document.Step 3: CASE MODELING:Custom-bui ld for this data, a newone-shot program that will take thedata as input, and make entriesinto a simulated Hearer's Memory.The program is the Model, and its"output" is its trace.Step 4: MODEL EVALUATION:Compare the Commentary with theexecution trace of the model.
Foreach signif icant event identi f iedin the Commentary, decide whetherthere was a correctly correspondingevent in the model 's execution.With suitable select ions of phenomenafor study, it is not hard to decide whetherthe program performed appropriately.However, a serious problem remains: aprogram for a single case can be entirely adhoc.
This is an advantage, in that it iscertain beforehand that the program will runsuccessful ly,  independent of the complexi tyof the phenomena.
But the program may ormay not have any long-term signif icance.The program is composed of cooperat ingprocesses.
Each process can be consideredto be an over-speci f ied hypothesis,over-speci f ied because details such as theprogramming language are inessential  to thecorresponding functional claims aboutlanguage.VERIF ICATION STEP: In order to meetthe ad-hocness problem, thesehypotheses must be veri f ied byrepeated appl icat ion to a divers i tyof cases.
The experiment stepscited above must be repeated, andtheir results compared.Inessent ia l  details (such asprogramming language and machine)may be changed, if desired, but thepropert ies of the algor i thms whichform the basis for the theoret icalclaims of the work must be heldconstant.The veri f ied results are thosealgor i thms that continue to work correctly,when their act ions are judged against theCommentary, in model after model.
Thesealgor i thms are the valuable ones both forpractical  appl icat ion and for sc ient i f icknowledge.ADVANTAGES OF CASE ANALYSISMETHODOLOGYSince the data acquis i t ion step isfirst rather than nearly last, strongerclaims can be made for the abi l i ty to modelreal-world phenomena.
Having the data inhand is a strong guide to implementat ion.Because phenomena ident i f icat ion isexplicit, and proceeds from expl ic i tinstructions, the result ing theory has a!
{\ !{!!!!{!!
!I!I!eSaclear operat ional  interpretat ion, since itsubst itutes powerful hindsight forless-powerful  antic ipation.There is better control on complexityand effort, since no claims are made for thegeneral i ty of the whole systems that arebuilt.
The amount of data modeled can becontrolled, and a diversity of data sourcescan be accommodated.
There is strongcontrol over the involvement ofwor ld-knowledge in models, since most of thepart iculars can be ant ic ipated by looking atthe data.The method can also be control led bychoices about whether several phenomena willbe modeled in a s ing le  model or severalsmaller models.
The smaller models aresimpler, but the single model exhibits thecompatabi l i ty  of the parts and theconsistency of the set of hypotheses.This approach typical ly runs in a moredata -dr iven ,  phenomena-responsive mannerthan a general system bui lding approach.
Itavoids the s ituat ion in which system designis based on inadequate stereotypes of whatmight happen at the input.
Programming canbe more goal -d irected as well, since thephenomena of interest have already beenident i f ied in the Commentary.The problems of ad-hocness are treatedexplicit ly, rather than being left to thesuspicions of the journal readers.
Thisfaci l i tates representat ions of the degreeand kinds of tests that the theories havehad.
(I suspect that for some currentsystems, many readers believe that they wil lonly run the explanatory examples in thepapers).Finally, because of the close controland 20-20 hindsight of case analysis, morecomplex phenomena can be accommodated.
Inparticular, communicat ion between twonon- ident ical  human processors can bemodeled.AN ACTIVE EXAMPLE OF CASE MODELINGMETHODOLOGYThe Dialogue Process Model ing work atISI is an active attempt to apply the ideasabove with some embel l ishments,  to realnatural language processing problems.
Allof the recommendat ions are being used inident i f iable ways.
This work wil l  bedescribed in discussion at the conference astime permits.129!
