GENERATION AS A SOCIAL ACTIONBertram C. BruceBBNOn his first visit tokindergarten, while mother was stil lwith him, Bruce, age five, lookedover the paintings on the wall andasked loudly, "Who made these uglypictures?
"Mother was embarrassed.
Shelooked at her son disapprovingly,  andhastened to tell him, "It's not niceto call the pictures ugly when theyare so pretty.
"The teacher, who understood themeaning of the question, smiled andsaid, "In here you don't have topaint pretty pictures.
You can paintmean pictures if you feel like it."
Abig smile appeared on Bruce's face,for now he had the answer to hishidden question: "What happens to aboy who doesn't paint so well?
"- from Between Parent and Chi ldHaim Ginott, 1961I.
INTRODUCTIONThis paper is about the "why" and the"how" of natural  language generation.Specif ical ly,  why does a person choose tocommunicate one idea rather than another (ornone at all), and how does this choice gettranslated into a part icular utterance?
Iwant to present a few of the major issuesand then suggest some ways of viewing theproblem.In the example above, the chi ld'squest ion is understandable in terms of hiswants and fears and bel iefs about the world.In order to explain why he asked thequest ion he did, we must view his utteranceas an action, rather than Just a string ofwords.
A str ing of words, per se, is notassociated with any plan or goal.
But anact ion is; in fact, the full representat ionof an action seems to require arepresentat ion of both its actual and itsintended effects, its actual and its assumedprecondit ions.This viewpoint further Justif ies thestudy of what Searle, Austin and others havecal led the "speech act."
The product ion of anatural  language utterance is bestunderstood as an action which alters thestate of the world, rather than as a mappingfrom a given meaning representat ion into asurface structure.
Indeed, many of theproblems of deep structure representat ion,such as focus and presupposit ion,  are moreprof i tably attacked in terms of action andplan structures.Generat ion can then be seen as a twostage process.
First, a plan is formulatedwhich requires a communicat ion with others.Second, the communicat ion is made in termsof convent ions which al low complexintent ions to be expressed easily.
These64stages are inextr icab2y linked since thelanguage conventions for expressingintent ions make implic~\]t references to plansof both the speaker and hearer.
At the sametime knowledge of the conventions can beused in plan formation,II.
GENERATION AS A SOCIAL ACTIONBefore discussing some of theconventions used to express intentions, itwil l  be useful to consider the notion of asocial action.
A social action is one whosedef init ion refers to beliefs, wants, fears,or intentions.
There may be non-socialactions.
For example, eating can bedescr ibed without reference to the diner'sbel iefs about the substance he puts in hismouth.
But the descr ipt ion itself  impliesbel iefs about the action which may or maynot be shared.
Another observer might saythat the al leged diner is just pretending,or picking at the food,, or wolf ing it down.A descr ipt ion of eating is a specialcase  of INFORMING.
It implies that thespeaker bel ieves that the diner is eating,and thus, that he bel ieves that the dinerintends to chew, swallow, and whatever elseconst i tutes the physical  act of eating.
Inother words, the act of descr ib ing encodesbel iefs about plans.
Speech is a socialact ion because the def in i t ion of a speechact requires reference to the bel iefs ofboth the speaker and the hearer.
Implicitin each speech act is the goal of thespeaker in making the utterance.There are actions other than speechacts for which the notion of bel ief  andintent ion are necessary.
For example,HELPING is a social act ion in which theactor does something which furthers a planinferred for someone else.
I bel ieve thatgenerat ion can best be understood as asocial action, i.e., the problem is first tounderstand how to represent and process anyact ion def ined in terms of bel iefs andintentions, then to further specify thatunderstanding for language generation.III.
HOW TO REPRESENT A SOCIAL ACTIONThe problem with a social act ion isthat it cannot be represented by anypredetermined, f inite structure.
Instead,its representat ion requires elements such asbel iefs about plans, where plans arethemselves defined in terms of bel iefs andother plans.
Rather than a structureitself, the def in i t ion of a social act ion isbest thought of as a set of operat ions to beperformed on a bel ief  system.
For example,a REQUEST requires the modi f icat ion to abel ief system such that (equivalently, isvalid if) there is a plan of the speakerwhich has as either a goal or a subgoal acondit ion which the speaker bel ieves wouldresult from the action requested.
Such anoperat ion may require formulat ion of a planor modi f icat ion of exist ing plans.The recognit ion and representat ion ofplans is a complex and by no means ful ly!!!!!!!
!\!iunderstood process.
It requires a varietyof types of knowledge to be applied.
Forinstance, mot ivat ion rules must be used todetermine whether a goal is appropr iate fora person.
Normative rules are used toaccount for behavior done under a sense ofobl igation.
Wants are propert ies  of personswhich are used in inferr ing their goals in agiven situation.
These concepts and othersare discussed in the references \[I-3\].
Inthe remainder of this paper I want to focuson one part icular aspect of generat ion as asocial action, namely, "How is intent ionencoded?
"How does a speaker indicate the purposeof his utterance to his l isteners?
In theexample in the beginning of this paper, thechild is only part ia l ly  successful  in makinghis intention known, and to the extent thathe fails, he also fails to achieve hisgoals.
In this case at least one of hisgoals seems to be reassurance that even ifhe doesn't paint well he won't be rejected.Note that in recogniz ing his intention,Bruce's teacher also makes other inferences.He/she probably assumes that Bruce bel ievesthat he doesn't paint well; that he fearsthat he may be punished for painting "meanpictures;" and that he bel ieves that thepainter of the "ugly picture" stands in thesame social re lat ionship to the techer asdoes Bruce.
These inferences are bothconsequences and determinants of theperceived intention.IV.
HOW TO ENCODE INTENTIONPresupposit ions.
What can a speaker doto ensure that his purpose, andconsequently,  its associated inferences, arecommunicated to his l isteners?
One way is toestabl ish, in the discourse previous ~o theutterance, the presupposit ions for thepurpose.
For example, the purpose ofREQUESTING INFORMATION has thepresuppos i t ion  that the speaker does notknow the information.
In the k indergartenexample, Bruce is making a dif ferentREQUEST, in this case, for reassurance.There is a different set of presupposi t ionswhich needs to be establ ished.
We canassume that the teacher's fami l iar i ty withchi ldren entering k indergarten makes iteasier for him/her to establ ish suchpresupposi t ions as that Bruce fears that theteacher may do bad things to him.
If thel istener fails to establ ish thepresupposit ions,  as Bruce's mother does,then the communicat ion fails.
Bruce wouldneed to emphasize his fears to his mother inorder to have his utterance understood.L inguist ic  Conventions.
A second waythat intent ions are encoded is through useof l inguist ic conventions.
For example, toindicate a REQUEST of any kind, the quest ionform is typical ly  used.
A request often hasa r is ing intonation, future tense or amodal, inverted word order, or a specialword like "please."
Many intentions, such asREQUEST, have a special  associated verb,e.g., "I request that you..
.
"65Discourse Structure.
A third way toencode intent ions is to take advantage ofhigher order l inguist ic conventions aboutdiscourse structure.
There are places in adiscourse where quest ions make sense, otherswhere explanat ions are expected.
Knowledgeof typical  discourse structures al lowspersons to condense and simpli fy utterances,avoiding the explicit  establ ishment ofpresupposi t ions or explicit  use of wordslike "promise.
"While there is probably not a"discourse grammar" which would define"wel l - formedness of discourses," it isuseful to have a model of how social actionstypical ly  fit together, and thus a model ofdiscourse structure.
Such a model can beviewed as a heurist ic which suggests l ikelyact ion sequences.
By focusing the searchinvolved in recogniz ing intentions itfaci l i tates generat ion and subsequentunderstanding.I have used the term "social actionparadigm" (SAP) \[I\] for such a model of theflow of social actions.
A SAP is a patterno f  behavior (its body) with constraints (itsheader) on the appl icabi l i ty  of the body.The header checks condit ions on thes i tuat ion in which the body is to beapplied.
At the same time, it bindsvar iables in the SAP body to elements(people, times, locations, things) of thesituation.
A typical  SAP body is shown inthe attached figure.
In the figure,REQUEST, SUGGEST, PROMISE, etc.
are socialactions; A and R are persons; and X is anaction.
F~(X) is an alternat ive to X; F~(X)is informat ion which relates to the doing ofX; and ~ (X) is a reason for not doing X.The SAP body says that A can REQUESTthat R do X. Fol lowing the REQUEST, R maySUGGEST an al ternat ive to X, may PROMISE todo X, may do X, may REFUSE to do X, or mayREQUEST addit ional  information.
Fol lowingR's REFUSAL or inaction, A may DEMAND that REXPLAIN, and so on.Both speakers in a discourse can beexpected to know various SAP's.
Forinstance, knowing that a SUGGESTION oftenfol lows a REQUEST it is not necessary toencode the SUGGESTION expl icit ly.
A persondoes not have to say, "I suggest insteadthat you..
."V.
HOW TO FIT IT ALL TOGETHERThe pr incipal  point of this paper isthat generat ion needs to be understood as anact ion in a social context.
Let us examinesuch a context to see how a person's plan iscarr ied out by encoding his intentions.The context: Bil l  and Catherine aregrowing a vegetable garden.
They haveplanted the seeds and have seen the firstplants appear.
The rhubarb is beingattacked by small insects which have eatenholes in the leaves.
Catherine notices theholes.A REQUEST R to X IIR SUGGEST A FI(X) I I R REQUEST A (A INFORM R F 2 (X))RP.O~,S.~X I I .R..US.~X l1A THANK R X I R EXPLAIN A F3(X)JI I A ACCEPT R F3(X)XA Social Action ParadigmIIi!i!iL/!IIIi,IIf--IIIiICather ine's  plan: Catherine's goal ofhaving rhubarb to eat is threatened by theinsects.
In this case let's assume that sheformulates a plan to poison the insects withBil l 's assistance.
She assumes that Billhas the same goals as she does with regardto the garden.
Furthermore, let's assumethat she doesn't know what poison to use butbel ieves that Bill does, and that Billdoesn't know about the holes.
ThusCather ine's  plan involves INFORMING Billabout the holes so that he will be mot ivatedeither to put poison on the rhubarb or totell her what poison to use.
Anotherappropr iate action for .this plan is aREQUEST to Bill to do something about theholes (and the insects).Encoding Catherfne's INFORM/REQUEST:Cather ine needs to do two things.
One is togive information to Bill which she bel ieveshe does not have.
This is cal led an INFORM.The other is to ask Bil l  to do something onthe basis of his new knowledge.
This iscalled a REQUEST.
She can do these thingswith two utterances.
However, if shebel ieves that Bill doesn't want the holes,that he wil l  infer that either she needs toknow what poison to use or that he mustapply the poison himself, and that hebel ieves that she bel ieves these things,then one utterance may be sufficient.
ThusCatherine may just say,"Bill, the rhubarb's got holes.
"In that case she is relying on sharedpresupposit ions about her utterance to carrythe informat ion about intention.
On theother hand she could use explicit  l inguist icconventions as in,"I inform you, Bill, that therhubarb's got holes.
I requestthat you either tell me whichpoison to use or apply poison to ityourself .
"Bi l l 's plan: While Bill has basical lythe same goals as Cather ine let's assume hedoesn't know much about plants, part icu lar lyrhubarb.
When Catherine tells him that therhubarb has holes he fails to make theinference that insects are eating the plant.Without that inference her last utterancemight appear as an INFORM but not a REQUEST.Thus he has no reason to modify his plansabout the garden.
However he might wel lwonder why she said such a thing andformulate a plan to satisfy his curiosity.An act ion for his plan could be to REQUESTCather ine to explain her last utterance.Encoding Bi l l 's REQUEST: Fol lowing anINFORM a common action is a REQUEST to thefirst speaker to EXPLAIN his INFORM.
Thisfact is expressed in the SAP's which includeINFORM's.
The general expectat ion of such aREQUEST coupled with a commonly usedl ingustic convent ion makes it possible forBil l  to express his REQUEST succinctly:"So?
"67Cather ine's  plan: Real izying that Billmisses the point of her INFORM/REQUESTCather ine also real izes that her plan needsfurther action.
She has to infer fromBi l l 's REQUEST that he is not making theappropr iate inferences himself  and needs tobe told direct ly that there are insects onthe rhubarb which need to be poisoned.Encoding Catherine's secondINFORM/REQUEST: Catherine stil l bel ievesthat Bill wil l  recognize her implicitREQUEST and that the problem with her firstutterance was that facts were left out whichBil l  needed.
Thus she says,"It's covered with l itt le bugs!"VI.
CONCLUSIONThe l itt le dialogue introduced abovecould be continued in any of severaldirections.
One l ikely cont inuat ion mightbe:"I guess we oughta dust it then.
""I don't know what to use.
""How about the rose bush powder?
""On rhubarb?
""Sure, a bug's a bug.""OK.
But you do it.
I don't know howmuch to use.
"For each utterance in this sequence there isan associated plan and set of beliefs.
Atthe same time there is heavy use ofpresupposit ions,  l inguist ic  conventions, andSAP's to improve the speed and ease ofcommunicat ion.These comments provide only a part ialanswer to the quest ion of why CatherineSays, "The rhubarb's  got holes," or whyBruce says, "who made these ugly pictures?
",They give but a sketch of how words areselected to encode intentions.
I hope,though, that the comments have supported aconsiderat ion of generat ion as a socialact ion occurr ing in the context of thespeaker's and l istener 's  intent ions andbeliefs.REFERENCES\[I\] Bruce, Bertram C., "Bel ief Systems andLanguage Understanding",  Report No.
2973,Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge,Mass., January 1975.\[2\] Bruce, Bertram C., and C.F.
Schmidt,"Episode Understanding and Bel ief  GuidedParsing", Computer Science Department,Rutgers, 1974, NIH Report CBM-TR-32.\[3\] Schmidt, C.F., "Model ing of Bel iefSystems, Sect ion 3".
Second AnnualReport of the Rutgers Special  ResearchResource on Computers in Biomedicine,1973.
Computer Science Department,
