A SYSTEM OF SEMANTIC PRIMITIVESRay JackendoffDepartment of EnglishBrandeis UniversityIn a l inguist ic theory, the semanticrepresentat ion of a sentence is meant to bea formal character izat ion of the informationconveyed by the sentence.
This informationcan be thought of as a set of claims abeutvarious individuals, properties, events,and/or states of affairs, and about therelat ionships among them.
A sat is factorysemantic theory must not only account forthe informat ion conveyed by a sentence; itmust a l so  account for how the sentenceconveys that information, expressing boththe syntact ic and semantic general izat ionsof the language.
A semantic theory isexplanatory when l inguist ica l ly  s ignif icantgeneral izat ions are inherent in the choiceof formalism, when the theory claims thelanguage would be more complex any otherway.
Such a theory claims that the languagelearner does not have to learn thesegeneral izat ions;  rather they are determinedby his innate capabi l i ty to learn a humanlanguage and to conceptual ize the world.This paper sketches a semantic theoryfor verbs, based on the analysis of Gruber(1965) and Jackendoff  (1972), whichexpresses certain semantic general izat ionsin such a way that they correspond veryclosely to syntact ic general izat ions.
Thegeneral i ty of the semantic analysis wil l  bedemonstrated by stating inference ruleswhose side appl icabi l i ty  depends crucia l lyon the form of the semantics.
Thus it wil lbe shown that the choice of semanticpr imit ives made here is explanatory in thesense set out above.
The theory isexpounded in much greater detai l  inJackendoff  (1975), of which this is anextreme condensation.I.
GO, BE, and STAY verbs.In sentences such as (I),(1)a.
The train traveled from Detroit toCincinnati .b.
The hawk flew from its nest to theground.c.
An apple fell from the tree onto Ike'shead.there is a common element of motionexpressed.
We will refer to the object inmotion as the Theme of the sentence, to theTheme's init ial  posit ion as the Source, andto its final posit ion as the Goal.
Thesemantic s imi lar i ty  between the sentences in(I) is expressed by assigning a commonelement in their semantic representat ion,  afunction GO(x,y,z).
This function makes theclaim that there has taken place an eventconsist ing of the motion of x from X to ~.In other words, the first var iable of GOcorresponds to the Theme, the second to theSource, and the third to the Goal.24The semantic di f ferences between thesentences are expressed in two dist inctways.
First, the different Themes, Sources,and Goals are derived by insert ing theinterpretat ions of the various noun phrasesin the sentences for the variables x, X, andz, according to the lexieal corre lat ion ofthe verb's strict subcategor izat ion featurewith its semantic representat ion.
The othersemantic di f ferences are descr ibed by addinga restr ict ive modif ier  expressing manner ofmotion, in these cases lexical ly determined,but in many cases due to an adverb in theverb phrase.
So, for example, (Ib) isrepresented asGO(THE HAWK, ITS NEST, THE GROUND).Manner: THROUGH THE AIR(I use capitals to represent semanticmarkers for the corresponding Engl ishexpression -- unsystematical ly,  unless it isrelevant to the present discussion.)
Ofcourse, a full expl icat ion of fly wouldinvolve further analysis of the mannermarker; but what is relevant here is thatthe common element of meaning has beenextracted from all verbs of physical  motion.Next consider (2).(2)a.
Max is in Africa.b.
The cat lay on the couch.c.
The statue stands on Cambridge Common.These do not descr ibe a motion, but ratherthe location of an object relat ive to someobject.
The formal semantic representat ionof (2) wil l  thus include a function BE(x,y),where X is the Theme (the object beinglocated) and X its Location.
As in (I), thedi f ferences of meaning among the sentencesin (2) are expressed by subst i tut ingdifferent markers for x and X and byattaching di f ferent manner markers asrestr ict ive modif iers  of the function BE.In addit ion to the verbs of locat ioni l lustrated in (2), there is a second,smal ler class of locat ional  verbs withrather di f ferent semantic propert ies:(3)a.
The bacter ia stayed in his body.b.
Stanley remained in Africa.c.
Bil l  kept the book on the shelf.These differ from (2) in that (i) theycannot refer to a point in time, as can (2);(ii) they can serve as a complement to whathappened was that, whereas (2) cannot.(4)a.
The bacter ia~were in his body at 6:00.r L'stayedb.
The cat| lay on the couch at 6:00.\[*remained(5) What happened was that~tan ley  remained in Africa.~ i l l  kept the book on the shelf.~Max was in Siberia.~The statue stood on Cambridge~ommon.The verbs in (3) wil l  be represented in partas STAY(x,y),  where x is the Theme and X itsLocation.I!IliIIIThe evidence from what happened wasindicates that STAY verbs, like GO verbs,represent events, while BE verbs representstates of affairs.2.
Position, Possession, and Ident i f icat ionThe most important aspect of Gruber'sanalysis is his extension of theinterpretat ions of GO, BE, and STAY to awide variety of examples where the"position" (Source, Goal, or Location), ofthe Theme is not specif ied in physicalterms, as it is in ( I ) - (3) .
Consider theseexamples:(6)a. Harry gave the book to the library.b, Charl ie bought the lamp from Max.c.
Will inherited a mil l ion dollars.(7)a.
The book belonged to the library.b.
Max owned an iguana.c.
Bil l  had no money.(8)a.
The l ibrary kept the book.b.
The iguana stayed in Max's possession.c.
The leopard retained its spots.In (6), the object described by the directobject of the sentence undergoes a change inwhom it belongs to.
By analogy with (I), wecan call the object undergoing change theTheme, and the initial and final statesSource and Goal respectively.
(7) expressesstates of possession; by paral lel with (6)and (2), we will call the possessed objectTheme and the possessor Location.
(8) alsoexpresses a single unchanging possessor; butat 6:00 may be added only to (7), not to(8), and what happened was may be prefixedonly to (8), not to (7).Thus there is an important paral lelbetween (6)-(8) and (I)-(3).
Gruber choosesto represent this paral lel by claiming that(6) are GO verbs, (7) are BE verbs, and (8)are STAY verbs.
The difference between(6)-(8) and (I)-(3) is expressed by amodif ier on the functions.
For physicalmotion and location, the modif ier isPosit ional; for possession, it isPossessional.
(la), for example, is nowrepresented as GO~oW,~ (THE TRAIN, DETROIT,CINCINATTI);  (6a) is GO~os~ (THE BOOK,HARRY, THE LIBRARY).Another important "mode of location"besides Posit ional and Possessional  isi l lustrated in the fol lowing examples.(9)a.
The coach changed fromyoung man into a pumpkin.b.
The metal turned red.c.
The ice became mushy.a handsome(10)a.
The coach was a pumpkin.b.
The metal was red.c.
The pumpkin seemed tasty.(11)a.
The poor coach stayed a pumpkin.b.
The metal remained red.c.
The redness persisted.The same three-way contrast obtains.
(9)describes changes of state; (10) describes astate; (11) describes the persistence of astate.
Of the two nonmotional cases, at6:00 may be added only to (10), and whathappened was may be prefixed only to (11).Gruber proposes a modif ier Identi f icat ional ,which indicates that the Location or Sourceand Goal of the function to which it isaff ixed make claims about what the Theme is,rather than where or whose it is.
Thus  forexample, (9a) is represented as GO~(THECOACH, A HANDSOME YOUNG MAN, A PUMPKIN).
(For sentences such as (9a) in which one ofthe arguments is absent from the sentence,the semantic representat ion will contain afree variable.
)By adopting the markers Positional,Possessional,  and Ident i f icat ional  asrestr ict ive modif iers on the functions GO,BE, and STAY, we capture important semanticdist inct ions and general izations.
Thecombination of the three markers with eachof the three functions yields a part icularclass of verbs, accounting for thes imi lar i t ies and differences among theclasses in a natural way.
As evidence thatthis is the correct breakdown, we observethat  many verbs occur in more than onelocational mode, while preserving theirc lassi f icaton as GO, BE, or STAY verbs:(12)a.
The coach turned into a driveway.
(Positional)The coach turned into a pumpkin.
( Identif icatonal)b.
The train went to Texas.
(Positional)The inheritance went to Philip.(Possessional)c.
Max is in Africa.
(Positional)Max is a doctor.
( Identif icational)d. Bill kept the book on the shelf.
(Positional)Bill kept the book.(Possessional)e.
The coach remained in the driveway.
(Positional)The coach remained a pumpkin.
( Identi f icat ional)In each pair, the same verb is used in twodifferent locational  modes.
Since theseuses are not a priori related, it is as ignif icant general izat ion that a sizablenumber of verbs exhibit such behavior.
Inthe present formal ism the re lat ionshipbetween the uses is clear and nonaccidental:the verb stays fundamental ly the same,changing only the value of the restr ict ivemodif ier denoting locational mode.The fundamental  concept represented bysentences in the present theory, then, isgiving the location(s) of an object at apart icular time or during a part icularinterval; the richness of expressionavai lable to natural language comes in partfrom extending the concept of location toother than physical position.2B3.
Causative and Permissive AgencyIn addit ion to the three functionsdiscussed so far, there are two whichdescribe different kinds of causation.Compare (13a,b,c).(13)a.
The rock fell from the roof to theground.Dick received the money.The bird went out of the cage.Noga stayed sick.b.
Linda lowered the rock from the roofto the ground.Dick acquired the money.Laura took the bird from the cage.David kept Noga sick.c.
Linda dropped the rock from the roofto the ground.Dick accepted the money.Laura released the bird from thecage.David left Noga sick.The events of the a. sentences are alsodescribed in the b. and c. sentences, butthe latter two claim that the events are dueto the agency of the subject, who is thustermed an Agent.
In turn, (13b,c) differ inthe kind of action performed by the Agent:(13b) is br inging the event about, orcausing: (13c) is ceasing to prevent theevent, or letting.
We will symbolize thesetwo kinds of agency as CAUSE (x,e) and LET(x,e) respectively.
The first examples ofeach group in (13) receive therepresentat ions (14a,b,c) respectively.(14)a.
GO@o~ (THE ROCK, THE ROOF, THEGROUND)b.
CAUSE (LINDA, GO p~ (THE ROCK, THEROOF, THE GROUND))c. LET (LINDA, GOIBo~ (THE ROCK, THEROOF, THE GROUND))The last sentences in each group are(15a,b,c,).(15)a.
STAY~ (NOGA, SICK)b.
CAUSE (DAVID, STAY~ (NOGA, SICK))c. LET (DAVID, STAY~ (NOGA, SICK))CAUSE is quite famil iar from thel iterature, LET less so.
There are twointerest ing dist inct ions between thembesides the inferences to be discussedbelow.
First, CAUSE allows an expression ofinstrument, but LET appears not to: in (16)the with-phrase can be interpreted only asaccompaniment.(16)a.
Linda dropped the rock with a cable.b.
Dick accepted the book with a $5bill.c.
David left the bird in the cage witha lock on the door.Second, the final argument of LET may beeither an event or a state of affairs, asseen from the fol lowing contrast.(17)a.
David let Laura out of the room.b.
David al lowed Laura out of the room.26(17a) must be interpreted as Davidpermitt ing Laura to gg out of the room;(17b) does not say anything about hermovements, but only where she may be.
Onthe other hand, CAUSE requires its finalargument to be an event.
All the causativelocational verbs such as hold, keep andretain are of the form CAUSE (x, STAY(..
.
))rather than CAUSE (X, BE(...)).
The verbcause, which does al low things like Doll iecaused Martin to be happy, has a morecompl icated analysis than just CAUSE, aswill be seen below in (36).
(One should beimmediately suspicious, since this examplemeans "Doll ie caused Martin to becomehappy" -- see (40b) below).4.
Inference RulesWe will now develop inference rules toderive logical entai lments of sentences onthe basis of their semantic representatins.An obvious rule of inference is that if anevent is caused, it happens.
This isformal ized as (18).
(18) CAUSE(X,E) -> EA typical inference derivable by this ruleis (19).
(19) Max gave Joe the money.CAUSE(MAX,GO~ (THE MONEY, MAX, JOE))-> Joe received the money from Max.GO~s~ (THE MONEY, MAX, JOE)The related inference with LET is that ifsomeone doesn't let an event happen, itdoesn't happen:(20) NOT LET(X,E) -> NOT EA typical inference from this rule is (21).
(21) AI didn't drop the pancake to thefloor.NOT LET(AL,GO~o~ (THE PANCAKE,y,THE FLOOR))-> The pancake didn't fall to the floorNOT GO?oW~ (THE PANCAKE,y,THE FLOOR)The inverses of these inference rules arenot valid in general: something may happeneven if no part icular thing one can name isits cause; if something is permitted, thatdoes not guarantee that it happens (althoughin certain s i tuat ions such as drooping theinference does go through).The rest of the inference rules concernGO, STAY, and BE, and can be stated in termsof simple spatial  intuit ions.
First, thereis the pr inciple that if someone stayssomeplace for a period of time, he is inthat place at any instant during that time.
(22) STAY (X,Y) FROM t~ TO t&-> BE (X,Y) AT t sCondition: t i~t~t  ~iI!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
!IIII1IIIIiIiIII22) permits inferences such as (23).23) Carl remained in the room from Tuesdayto Friday.STAY~ (CARL, THE ROOM)FROM TUESDAY TO FRIDAY-> Carl was in the room on Wednesday.BEe~.~(CARL, THE ROOM) AT WEDNESDAY(18) and (22) work together in thisinference (assuming proper times):(24) David kept Noga Sick-> Noga stayed sick-> Noga was sick.CAUSE(DAVID, STAY~ (NOGA,SICK))STAY~L~% (NOGA,SICK)BE~k (NOGA,SICK)The inverse inference is that ifsomeone doesn't stay someplace during aninterval, there is a time during theinterval when he isn't there.
This can beformalized similarly.The paral lel  inference rule for GO isthat if something goes from one place toanother, it was at the first place first andthe second place second:(25) GO(X,Y,Z) AT t~ ->for some times t~,~ such thatt~<t~ <t~,BE (X,Y) AT t~BE (X,Z) ATA typical entai lment from this rule is (26).
(26) Phil gave the bill to Lyn.CAUSE(PHIL,GO~.~(THE BILL,PHIL,LYN))GO~$~(THE BILL,PHIL,LYN)~ Phil had the bill, and then Lyn hadit.BE~(THE BILL,PHIL) AT t a ANDBE~Q~(THE BILL,LYN) AT t~for some t I , tm such that t~<t LThere is no inference from NOT GO, since ifsomeone didn't go from one place to anotherwe can make no inferences about where he wasat any time, without further knowledge.A very important inference rule is thatif and only if someone is not someplace, heis somewhere else.
We represent the sense"a place other than Z" as NOT Z, for reasonsto become clear shortly.
(27) NOT BE (X,Z)<->BE (X, NOT Z)Also, if and only if someone is someplace,he is not elsewhere.I (28) BE (X,Z)<->NOT BE (X, NOT Z)These rules play a role in inferences suchas if John was not inside the house, he wasI outside of it (Positional); if either John?
or Bill had the book and John didn't, thenBill did (Possessional); and if Sue wassick, she wasn't healthy (Identif icational).I The complete derivation of such inferences,however, involves other steps includingI27factual knowledge, and is too complex toinclude here.Similar to (27)-(28) are inferencerules (which we won't formalize here) thatif you're going someplace you're not stayinganywhere, and if you re staying someplaceyou re not going anywhere.What makes the sort of inference rulesproposed here of interest is the way theyprovide evidence for the explanatory powerof the present theory of semanticdescription.
For in this system, a rule ofinference is simpler if it general izes overall modes of location.
The theory claimsthat it is no accident that the inferencerules general ize in the way theydo -- rather it is an essential part of thestructure of the semantic description.
Iconsider it a striking property of thepresent system that very simple principlesabout spatial understanding can be statedformally in such a way that they provide arich variety of inferences in domains whichbear no a priori relation to physical space.5.
Circumstant ia l  LocationConsider the ~ interpretat ions of(29a,b).
(29) a. Laura kept David in the room.b.
Laura kept David working.
(Indeep structure, Laura kept David\[~David working\])The interpretat ion of (29a) isCAUSE(LAURA,STAY~,~(DAVID,  THE ROOM)).
Ifthe verb keep is to be essential ly the samein (29b), we must provide (29b) with asimilar interpretation, though clearly noneof the modes of location discussed so farcan provide one.
We introduce a mode calledCircumstantial :  if an individual is in aCircumstant ia l  Location, where the locationis an event or state of affairs, this istaken to mean that the individual isinvolved as a part icipant in that event orstate of affairs.
Then we can assign (29b)the reading (30).
(30) CAUSE(LAURA,STAY~,~(DAVID,DAVID WORK))This claims that Laura caused David tocontinue to be involved in the situation ofworking, precisely the desiredinterpretation, and furthermore of preciselyparallel form to its Posit ional analogue(29a).
Other examples:(31) a. Linda kept Laura (away) from thecookie jar.CAUSE(LINDA,STAY?o~,~(LAURA, NOT THECOOKIE JAR))~kept \]b. L inda|prevented~ Laura fromscreaming.CAUSE(LINDA,STAYaj~(LAURA, NOT(LAURASCREAM)))kept \](32) LauraLcont inued~screaming.STAY~,&~ (LAURA, LAURA SCREAM)(33) a. David avoided the beach.STAY~ (DAVID, NOT THE BEACH)b. Dav id  avoided playing checkers.STAY~,~ (DAVID,NOT(DAVIDCHECKERS))PLAY(34) a. Jim forced the ball into the hole.CAUSE( J IM ,GO~(THE BALL,y,THEHOLE))b. Jim forced Phil into confesing.to confess.CAUSE(JIM,GO?,~(PHIL,y,PHIL CONFESS))'(35) Dick stopped the car from coughing.CAUSE(DICK,GO?,$~.
(THE CAR,y,NOT(THE CARCOUGH)))(36) Dollie caused Martin to be happy.CAUSE(DOLL IE ,GO~(MARTIN ,y ,BE~(MARTIN ,HAPPY) ) )(37) a. John allowed Fred in the room.LET( JOHN,BE~ (FRED, THE ROOM))b. John allowed Fred to wash thedishes.LET(JOHN,BE~,~.
(FRED,FRED WASH THE DISHES))(38) Jack exempted Jim from fighting.LET(JACK BE~ (JIM,NOT(JIM FIGHT)))There are four points to observe aboutthese representations.
First, where a verbthat takes a sentential complement has aPositional variant, the two versions of theverb have identical representatons but forthe locational mode.
Thus in the presentsystem it is no accident that the verboccurs in two seeming disparate syntacticand semantic frames.Second, the NOT meaning "somewhereother than" in Positional contexts appearsto generalize fully with the NOT of sentencenegation in Circumstantial contexts.Third, complement type is related tosemantic representation.
Gerundivestypically correspond to Locations or Goals;from-ing complements are negated Locationsand negated Goals; to-infinitive complementsare Goals of various sorts (including Goalsof intentions, not discussed here);that-complements are typically Themes.
Thecorrespondence is hardly exact partlybecause there are far more semanticpositions for clauses than there arecomplement types: but it is far from randomeither.Fourth, and most striking, theinference rules of the previous section canbe applied to Circumstantial verbs quitefreely.
Given the special inference rule(39), which follows immediately from thedefinition of Circumstantial location, wecan derive such inferences as (40) (omittingtime dependencies).28(39) BEc,~ (X,E)->E(40) a. Laura kept David working.CAUSE(LAURA,STAY~,~.
(DAVID, DAVID WORK))(~  STAY~,i~ (DAVID,DAVID WORK)BE~,$~ (DAVID, DAVID WORK)~ David workedDAVID WORKb.
Lyn caused Bob to be happy.CAUSE(LYN,GO~,&~(BOB,y,BEx&?~(BOB,HAPPY)))~l~_~ GO~,~ (BOB,y,BEx~(BOB,HAPPY))BE ~,.
(BOB,y) and laterBE~_(BOB,BE~mh~(BOB,HAPPY))(~--~ y and later BE~(BOB,HAPPY)\[because Source and Goal must be distinct\]y / BE~(BOB,HAPPY)Bob was unhappy and later he was happy.BE~BOB,  NOT HAPPY) and laterBE~%(BOB,  HAPPY)c. Jack didn't exempt Jim fromfighting.NOT LET(JACK, BE~,~(JIM,NOT(JIM FIGHT)))NOT BEc~.~(JIM , NOT(JIM FIGHT))(~  BE~ (JIM, JIM FIGHT)Jim fought.JIM FIGHTThis kind of inference is characteristic ofthe "implicative" verbs described byKarttunen (1971).
In the present system itfollows immediately from the semanticanalysis and the generalization of theinference rules for spatial location to thecircumstantial mode.Lest the generalization from Positionalto Circumstantial should still seem marginaland unmotivated, notice that it is quitepervasive in the language.
For a few veryclear random examples, consider t_go come t_gob__ge called Max, to lead someone to believe,t__oo drive someone t__oo confess, t__q bringoneself t__oo acknowledge something, and, amongnominals, the way to find out.
For an evenmore interesting example, consider themeaning of force in (34a).
In addition tothe semantic description given there, thereis a marker of manner roughly paraphrasableas "by applying pressure against the ball'sresistance."
Here the concepts of pressure,applying pressure, and resistance are purelyphysical.
But in fact the same mannermarker "by applying pressure against Phil'sresistance', is miraculously perfect for(34b), where the concepts of pressure,applying pressure, and resistance are muchmore abstract in nature.
Surely this is nocoincidence; it argues that the extensionIIiIIIIi!iIIiIIIIIIIfrom Positional to Circumstantial is highlydetermined in human cognition, and that thegeneralization of a verb's meaning followsinnate lines of analogy.
The present theoryof semantic description is explanatory inthat these generalizations fall outimmediately from the choice of semanticprimitives, which are in turn chosen onlinguistic grounds.This result is consistent with Piaget'sv iew (1947, 1970) that (nonverbal) knowledgeof physical spatial relations is the .mostbasic sort of knowledge we have, and thatall other kinds of knoweldge develop out ofit.
Within such a framework, the inferencerules proposed here are not merelylinguistic but conceptual, and correspondclosely to Piaget's principles ofconservation and identity.
The growth inone's ability to  handle abstraction thenconsists (in part) in understanding newmodes of location and being able togeneralize the rules of inference to a newsystem of relations.
If this is so, thetheory proposed here is a deep result notonly for linguistic theory but for the studyof human conceptualization.REFERENCESChomsky, N. (1965), Aspects of the Theorzof  Syntax.
MIT Press.Gruber, Jeffrey (1965), Studies i__nn LexicalRelations, MIT dissertation, availablefrom Indiana University LingusticsClub.Jackendoff, Ray (1972) SemanticInterpretation in Generative Grammar,MIT Press.
(1976) "Toward an Explanatory SemanticRepresentaion," Linguistic Inquiry,7.1.Karttunen, Lauri (1971), "ImplicativeVerbs," Language 47, 340-358.Piaget, J.
(1947) Psychology ofIntelligence, Littlefield, Adams, &Co., 1972.
(1970) Genetic Epistemology, ColumbiaUniversity Press.29!
