METHODOLOGY INAI AND NATURAL LANGUAGE UNDERSTANDINGYorick WilksIst ituto per Gli StudiSemantici  e CognitiviCastagnola, Switzer landAre workers in AI and natural languagea happy band of brothers marching with theirvarious systems together towards thePromised Land (systems which in the view ofmahy well disposed outsiders are onlynotat ional  variants at bottom), or on +thecontrary are there serious methodologicaldi f ferences inherent in our variousposit ions?
I think there  is in fact onecent ra l  difference, and that it is amethodological  ref lect ion of a metaphysicaldi f ference about whether there is, or isnot, a science of language.
But it is noteasy to tease this serious dif ference outfrom the skein of non-ser ious methodologica ldiscussions.By "non-ser ious methodological  ete."
Imean such agreed points as that (i) it wouldbe nicer to have an understanding systemworking with a vocabulary of Nk words ratherthan Mk, where N>M, and moreover, that thevocabular ies should contain words ofmaximal ly  dif ferent types: so that "house","fish", "committee" and "test imonial"  wouldbe a better vocabulary than "house","cottage", "palace" and "apartment block.
"And that, (ii) it would be nicer to have anunderstanding system that correct lyunderstood N% of input sentences than onewhich understood M%.
When I say non-ser loushere I do not mean unimportant,  but onlythat nothing theoret ical  is in question; sothat, for example, it could be only anarbitrary choice whether or not a systemthat understood correct ly 95% of sentencesfrom a 3000 word vocabulary was or was notbetter than one which understood 98% from a1000 word vocabulary.Indeed, the very sizes of thevocabular ies and success rates in theexample show that such a choice, howeverarbitrary, is not one we are l ikely to becalled upon to make in the near fu ture ,  solet us press a l itt le deeper.Consider the fol lowing three points,which I wil l  name for ease of subsequentreference:(I) Theory and practice: "Trying hard tomake a system work is all very well, butit's too success-or iented,  what we need atthe moment is more theoret lcal  work".
(2) AI a~d ~ience :  "What we are after isthe right set of rules, and expressions ofreal world knowledge, for understandingnatural  language: no approximate, 95%,solut ions wil l  do, just as they won't do inphysics".
(3) Where to s t~:  "Since dif f icultexamples clearly require reasoning to beunderstood, we cannot even begin withoutsuch a theory because, without it, we could130not know of even an apparent ly simpleexample that it did NOT require reasoning inorder to be understood.
"The above three posit ions are notintended to be a parody, and certainly not aparody of anyone in part icular 's  views.
Ihave not in fact heard all three from thesame person, even though, in my view, theyconst i tute a coherent posit ion takentogether: one which I believe to be not onlywrong, and I wil l  come to that, but alsoharmful.
Let me deal with the sociologyfirst, and in the form of a very crudehistor ical  general izat ion.It is clear that "natural languageunderstanding" has come to occupy a lessperipheral  place in AI, and much of thecredit for this must go to Winograd (1972).The position, expressed in (I), (2) and (3)above, is in some ways a reaction to that,and in my view an excessive one.
Behind theposit ions above lurks the suspicion that thesuccess of Winograd's  system was in part dueto its overs impl i f icatons and that we mustnow be wary, for a while at least, ofappl icat ions,  successful  or otherwise: thatwe must, in short, emphasize how dif f icultit all is.Now there is undoubtedly something inthis, but it seems to me that the react ionmay have the paradoxical  effect of causingthe study of natural language in AI to begiven up altogether.
In the last year ortwo a number of those who seemed to beconcerned with the problems of naturallanguage no longer seem to be so.
There hasbeen a subtle change: from the analysis  ofstories, or whatever, to the sett ing out ofsystems of plans which now seem to constructstories as they go along.
It might thenseem natural  to move further: from theproduct ion of stories about tying one'sshoe:laces, shopping in supermarkets, etc.to plans, for robots of course, that wil lactual ly  shop in supermarkets, tie their ownshoe-laces, play diplomacy or whatever.
Andthen of course we are back where we startedin AI: back to AI's old central  interests,robots, problem-solv ing and the organizat ionof plans.All this would be a pity, not onlybecause someone has, as always, to be leftholding the baby of natural  languageanalysis, but because it is too soon, and AIhas not yet had the benef ic ia l  effect it iscapable of having, and ought to have, on thestudy of natural  language.
There are atleast four of these benefits; let me Justremind you of them:(i) emphasis on complex stored structuresin a natural  language understandingsystem: frames, if you llke (Minsky1974)(ii) emphasis on the importance of realworld, induct ive knowledge, expressedin the structures of (i)(iii) emphasis on the communicat ivefunct ion of sentences in context,!lIIIIiI!!JIt!II!!!!!11I!i.e.
the f inding of thecorrect- in-context  reading for asentence, as opposed to the standardl inguist ic view, which is that thetask is the f inding of a range ofpossible readings, independent ofcontext(iv) emphasis on the expression of rules,structures, and information within anoperat ional /procedura l /computat ionalenvironment.Convent ional  l inguist ics has still notappreciated the force of these points, whichare of course commonplace in A.I.Let me now turn to the posit ionsketched out earl ier under three headings,and set out some countervai l ingconsiderations.
It should be made clearthat in whaa follows I am making onlymethodological  points aout the assessment ofsystems in general.
No attack on thecontent of anyone s system is intended.First, to the theory a~d pract i~point.
It seems to me worth emphasiz ingagain that there can be no other ult imatetest of a system for understanding naturallanguage than i t s  success in doing somespecif ic task, and that to pretend otherwiseis to introduce enormous confusion.Considerat ions of logic or psychologicalp lausibi l i ty may indeed be suggestive in theconstruct ion of AI language systems, butthat is quite another matter from theirult imate accountabi l i ty,  which can only bewhether or not they work.
Suppose somesystem had all desirable logical properties,and had moreover been declared by everyrespected psychologist  to be consistent withall known experiments on human react ionstimes and so on.
Even so, none of thiswould matter a jot in its just i f icat ion as acomputat ional  system for natural language.In a similar vein, it seems to mehighly misleading, to say the least, todescribe the recent f lowering of AI work onnatural language inference, or whatever, astheoret ical  work.
I would argue that it ison the contrary, as psychologists insist onreminding us, the expression in some more orless agreeable seml- formal ism of intuitive,common-sense knowledge, revealed byintrospection.
I have set out inconsiderable detail (Wilks 1974) why such anact ivity can hardly be called "theoretical",in any strong sense, however worthwhi le itmay be.
That it i_~s worthwhi le is not beingquest ioned here.
Nor could it be, since Iam engaged in the same act ivity mysel f(Wilks 1975b).
I am making a meta-,methodological ,  point that the act iv ity doesnot become more valuable by being describedin value-added terms.
The worthwhi leness,of course, is shown later by testing, not bythe intuit ive or aesthetic appeal of theknowledge represented or the formal ismadopted.Let me turn to posit ion (2): A_~IScience.
It seems clear to me that ouract iv i ty is an engineering, not a131scientif ic, one and that attempts to drawanalogies between science and AI work onlanguage are not only overdignifying, asabove, but are intel lectual ly misleading.Conduct with me, if you will, the fol lowingGedankenexper iment:  suppose that tomorrowsomeone produces what appears to be thecomplete AI understanding systems, includingof course all the right inference rules toresolve all the pronoun references inEnglish.
We know in advance that manyingenious and industr ious people wouldimmediately sit down and think up examplesof perfect ly acceptable texts that were notcovered by those rules.
We know they wouldbe able to do this just as surely as we knowthat if someone were to show us a boundaryllne to the universe and say "you cannotstep over this", we would promptly do so.Do not misunderstand my point here: itis not that I would consider the one whooffered the rule system as refuted by such acounter-example, part iculary if the lattertook time and ingenuity to construct.
Onthe contrary, it is the counter-examplemethodology that is refuted, given that theproffered rules expressed large andinterest ing general izat ions and covered awide range of examples.
For the simplemethodology of refutat ion is the method ofideal ised science, where one awkwardpart ic le can overthrow a theory*.
In thestudy of language such a methodology is nomore appropr iate than it is to consider thedef init ion of fish as something that swimsand has fins as be ing "overthrown" by thediscovery of a whale.
Of course it is not,nor does the def in i t ion lose its power; wesimply have special rules for whales.The fact of the matter is surely thatwe cannot have a serious theory of naturallanguage which requires that there be someboundary to the language, outside whichutterances are too odd for consideration.Given suff ic ient context and explanat ionanvthln~ can be accommodated and understood:it is this basic human language competencethat generat ive l inguist ics hassystemat ica l ly  ignored and which an AI viewof language should be able to deal with.
Weknow in pr inciple (see Wilks 1971 and 1975a)what it would be like to do so, even if noone has any concrete ideas about it at themoment*: it would be a system that coulddiscover that some earl ier inference it hadmade was inconsistent with what it foundlater in a text, and could return to tryagain to understand.
And here, to beinteresting, the backtracking would have tobe more than simply the fol lowing of some*The bad inf luence may not come direct lyfrom science, but via "competence theory" inl inguistics.
*Winograd's thesis, of course, had a systemfor checking inferences and new informationagainst all that it knew already, though itis not clear that such a direct method wouldextend to a wider world of texts.
In (Wilks1968) there was a very crude program forf inding out that an assignment of sense,earl ier in a text, had gone wrong, but itwas almost certa in ly  an inextensible method.branch of a parsing that had  been ignoredearlier: it would have to be somethingequivalent to postulatng a new sense of aword, a new reference of a pronoun, or evena new rule of inference itself.
It issurely these situations that the "AIparadigm of language understanding", andperhaps it alone, will be capable, inprinciple, of tackling, in the future, andit is these features of language, thatrequire such maneuvres, that show mostclearly why the "100%-Scient i f ic  Rqle"picture does not fit language at all, andwhy time spent trying to make it fit may bea diversion of attent ion from really keyareas like the heurist ics ofmisunderstanding and contradict ion.Perhaps a moment's further di lation onthe role of counter-examples is worthwhi lehere.
Consider two counter-examples:  oneproduced against the "expectat ion as basicmechanism of parsing" hypothesis of Riesbeck(Riesbeck 1974), and one against my own"preference as basic mechanism etc."
(Wilks1975c) hypothesis.
Riesbeck considerssentences such as "John went hunting andshot a buck", where, putt ing it simply, theconcept of hunt ing causes the system toexpect more about hunting and so it resolves"buck" correct ly  as the animal and not thecash.
One then immediately thinks of "Johnwent hunt ing and lost fifty bucks".Conversely, in my own system I makemuch of the preference of concepts for otherconcepts to play certain roles, so that forexample in "John tasted the gin", "gin" willbe resolved as the drink and not the trap,because of the preference of tast ing for anedible or potable object like the l iquidgin.
Someone then, plausibly enough, comesup with "He l icked the gun all over and thestock tasted good", where the preference ona small scale would get the wrong "soup"sense of "stock", and not the "gun part".It should be clear that thesecounter-examples are to what appear tobe ,superf ic ial ly,  opposed theories of parsing.My point is that in ~ case do theexamples succeed in showing a theoryuseless, i.e.
neither "preference is nogood" nor "expectat ion is no good" fol lowfrom the product ion of the counter-examples.What is needed of course, and what in factboth parties are trying for, is somesuitable mixture of the approaches.
But,and here is the key point, there will not beany magic right mixture either.
There canonly be a combinat ion that wil l  i tself  gowrong with suf f ic ient ly  ingenious examples.Only a r~eoverv mechanism will save us, Justas it saves people, who misunderstand allthe time.
There wil l  never be, nor couldthere be, a RIGHT combination, in the waythat F : k,,,__~L gives a right theory ofgravitat ion ~hen,  and only when, n : 2Finally, let me turn to the thirdaspects of the init ial  position, which Ical led whereto  start.
This brings up thevery dif f icult  quest ion about the relat ionof reasoning to natural  language, and I havemade some remarks on that in the paper insection 2 on "Primitives".
Here I just want132to try and counter, in a brief andinadequate manner, what I see as the badeffects of the where t__qo start view.The view is an alternative to a mores imple-minded view which goes as follows:"we should now concentrate on diff icultexamples, requir ing reasoning, when studyingnatural language understanding, because thebasic semantics and syntax have been done,and we are therefore right to focus on theremainder".
This view is simplyh istor ica l ly  false about what has been done,so let us leave that and turn to the muchsubtler where t__oo start view which holdsthat, on the contrary, the basic semanticsof natural  language understanding have notbeen done and cannot even b__ee star~ed withouta full theory of reasoning capable oftackl ing the most diff icult examples,because, without such a theory, we can'tknow that it isn't needed, even in theapparent ly  s implest cases.
The argument isllke that against the employment ofparamedical  staff  as a front line incommunity medicine: we cannot have ahal f - t ra lned doctor treat ing even influenza,because unless he's ful ly trained he can'~be sure i t  isn\[t pneumonia.One obvious trouble with the argument,in both its l inguist ic and medical  forms, isits openness to reduct~o ad absurd~mreplies.
It fol lows from that posit ion, iftaken ser iously as a theory of humanunderstanding, that no one understandsanything unti l  they are capable at least ofunderstanding everything.
So, for example,a child could never proper ly be said tounderstand anything at all, nor perhapscould the overwhelming major i ty  of the humanrace.
There is clearly something untrue toour experience and common-sense there.I am not treat ing this posit ion withthe ser iousness it deserves in the spaceavai lable here.
In a weaker form it mightdraw universal  agreement.
If, for example,it were put in the weaker form that it wasnot real ly worth start ing machinetranslat ion in the way they did in the1950"s, because they knew they had nosemantic mechanisms, and so without someabi l i ty to go further, it was not even worths tar t ing there.
In that weaker form theargument looks far more plausible.What I am quest ioning here is itsstronger form: and again the reply is thesame, namely that the posit ion is anotherversion of the 100%-rule fallacy: that inscience you have to have a complete theoryto have any o r t ~  theor~ at all.
Thisis untrue to language and diverts ourattent ion from appl icat ion and from ansystem that could misunderstandand recover.Let me summarise the posit ion paper: itis an attack on what I have cal led the100%-rule fallacy, al ias the use ofsc ient i f ic  methodology and assessment inwork on AI and natural  language.
In my viewthis posit ion ~as four unfortunate aspects:IIiI!I!iI|!i!!I!II!1iIII.
It requires holding, usually implicitly,the false metaphysical position thatthere is some boundary to naturallanguage over which one cannot step.2.
It has a false view of the role ofcounter-examples as rejectors.3.
It encourages talk of theoretical advancein a non-theoretical area, and downgradesthe engineering aspects of AI, and thusthe notions of tests and application,which are the only criteria of assessmentwe have or could have.4.
It distracts attention from theheuristics of misunderstanding whichshould be the key to further advance.REFERENCESMinsky, M., "A framework for representingknowledge", MIT AI Memo NO, 306, 1974.Riesbeck, C., "Computational understanding",Memo from ISSCO No.
~, 1974.Wilks, Y.,Derivations",Memo, 1968.
"Computable SemanticSystems Development Corp.,Wilks, Y., "DecidabilityLanguage", Mind, 1971.and NaturalWilks, Y., "One Small Head", Foundations ofLanguage, 1974.Wilks, Y., "Philosophy of Language" in Notesfor the Tutorial on ComDutatlonalSemantics, ISSCO, Castagnola, 1975a.Wilks , Y., "A preferential Pattern-matchlngSemantics for Natural LanguageInference", Artificial Intelli~enoe,1975b.Wilks, Y., "An intelligent analyzer andunderstander of English", Comm.
A.C.M.,1975c.Winograd, T., Understandin~Language, Edinburgh, 1972.Natural133
