COMMENTS ON LEXICAL ANALYSIS*George A. Mil lerHow lexical information should berepresented in a computer program forprocessing natural language depends both onthe goals that the program is intended toachieve and on the lexical informationitself.
Although programs can be imaginedthat might use lexical information indifferent ways, the information base that isexploited must be invariant over a l ternat iveprograms.The present paper is concerned with thelexical information that must berepresented, rather than with programmingdevices for represent ing it.
First, ananalysis scheme will  be i l lustrated througha study of a single Engl ish verb.
Then thescheme will  be used as background for adiscussion of some fundamental  theoret icalissues.Hand:.
An exercise in Lexical  AnalvsisConsider the verb "hand" as it is usedin:(I) a.
She handed her hat to him.b.
She handed him her hat.A paraphrase of (I) that captures all of thecomponents of meaning to be disuussed hereis:(2) She had her hat prior to some time t atwhich she used her hand to do somethingthat caused her hat to travel to him,after which time he had her hat.The di f ference between (la) and (Ib) isusual ly regarded as syntactic, (Ib) der iv ingfrom the structure under ly ing (la) as aconsequence of a dat ive-movementt ransformat ion that inverts the order of thedirect and indirect objects and deletes"to".
Some people, however, detect adi f ference in meaning: "She handed her hatto him," they say, merely suggests that hetook it, whereas "She handed him her hat"asserts that he took it -- the senseexpressed in (2).
If one respects thisd i f ference in meaning, and also holds to thesemantic neutral i ty of such grammaticalt ransformat ions as dative movement, thenpresumably one must d ist inguish twodif ferent meanings of "hand" -- oneresembl ing 'offer" and anothero f fe r -and- take . "
If one does not respectthis meaning difference, both (la) and (Ib)have the "of fer-and-take" sense.
In eithercase, it is the sense paraphrased in (2)that wil l  be considered here.Let the verb "hand" be represented asan operator, HAND, taking three arguments:the grammatical  subject x, the indirect*Preparat ion of this paper has beensupported by grants to The Rockefel ierUnivers i ty from the Grant Foundat ion andf rom the Public Health Service, GM21796.The style of lexical analysis that isi l lustrated here was developed incol laborat ion with P.N.
Johnson-Laird andwil l  appear in more detail  in Mi l ler and Johnson-Laird (in press).object y, and the direct object z:HAND(x,y,z).
Then (I) can be represented(to a first approximation) by:(3) (~X,F,z)\[WOMAN(x) &MAN(y) &HAND(x,F,Z)\]WOMAN, MAN, and HAT are not uninterest ingconcepts -- in particular, men and womenhave" hands ( inal ienable possession),whereas hats do not, and men and women canhave" hats (either accidental  possession orownership),  but not vice versa -- but thepresent discussion is confined to HAND,which wil l  be analyzed to i l lustrate theneed for certain very genera l  lexicalconcepts.HAPPEN: Consider first the temporalshape of the handing episode in (I).
Itbegins in the state: "she has her hat and hedoes not have it".
Then an event occurs attime t which results in a change of state.And the episode ends in the state: "she doesnot have her hat and he does have it".
Thischaracter izat ion raises two questions: howto represent changes of state, and how toreduce the redundancy of the statedescr ipt ions.A statement forming operator R (Rescher& Urquhart, 1971) Can be used to representchanges of state.
R takes a temporal lyindef in i te statement S and forms a newstatement R (S) to the effect that "S isreal ized at t." In order to indicate achange of state at moment t, anotheroperator -- call it HAPPEN -- is needed toform a new statement to the effect that"notS is real ized at t-1 and S is , real izedat t":(4) HAPPEN(S) = (~t)\[R~_i(notS) & R~(S)\]HAPPEN is a very general operator,character ist ic  of verbs that denote events.Note that the first conjunct of (4) wil lord inar i ly  be presupposed; that is to say,"S didn't happen" is not ord inar i ly  taken tomean "R~(S) for all t."The two state character izat ions -- "shehad it and he didn't" and "she didn't haveit and he did" -- are clearly redundant.The fact that a hat cannot be in two placesat the same time (which must be part of alanguage user's general knowledge) merelycompounds the redundancy of such statedescr ipt ions for double-object  verbs ofmotion.
However ,  it is a generalcharacter ist ic  of double-object  verbs, notl imited to motion verbs like "hand", that,in some sense of the ambiguous verb "have",the event ends with the indirect object"having" the direct object (Green, 1974).In the case of "hand", either x or y, butnot both, wil l  have z at any moment t; sincey has z after t, x cannot also have it.
Onthe other hand, if x "tells" y someinformat ion z, x does no~t stop having zafter t. What is common to both, however,is that y does not have z before t. Thus,the simplest state descr ipt ion isS = HAVE(y,z),  in which case the antecedentstate would be notS.
Since nots seems to bepresupposed by HAND, (4) would be satisf ied.On this analysis, therefore, some part of30IIi!IIIiIiIIIIIIIIIthe meaning of "hand" must be:(5) HAPPEN(HAVE(y,z))  = GET(y,z)Discussion of HAVE will be omitted here; seeBendix (1966) or Mil ler and Johnson-Laird.Actually, of course, two things happenin handing: the object changes location aswell as possessor.
Indeed, the formerchange seems to be causal ly related to thelatter.
So, in order to complete theanalysis, it is necessary to conside~ alsowhat happens at t that results in thetransit ion from notHAVE(y,z) to HAVE(y,z).Roughly, x uses x's hand to d~ something,and what x does causes z to travel to y.This paraphrase introduces four newoperators -- USE, DO, CAUSE, andTRAVEL -- which can combine as follows toprovide addit ional  parts of HAND:(6) USE(x,hand,S x) &CAUSE(S~,(TO(TRAVEL))(Z,F))Because the concepts associated with theseoperators -- instrumental ity,  agency,causality, and motion -- are required in theanalysis of many English verbs, they will bediscussed individually.USE: The first conjunct of (6)corresponds to "x uses hand to S~" or, moregenerally, USE(x,w,S,) is "x uses w to Sx,"as in "Tom used a knife to open the box."
Afuller paraphrase would be: "x intent ional lydoes something S that causes w to dosomething S" that allows Sx."
"Use"contrasts with instumental  "with" in beingintentional:  "He broke the window with hiselbow" is not synonymous with "He used hiselbow to break the window."
If we introducean operator ACT to represent intentionalacts, then USE can be defined:(7) USE(x,w,S~) = ACT(x,S) &CAUSE(S,DO(w,S'))  &ALLOW(S',S~)This formulat ion adds two moreoperators -- ACT and ALLOW -- for which anaccount must be given.ACT: Intention wil l  be taken as anunanalyzed primit ive and represented byINTEND(x,g), where x is understood to beanimate and g is understood to be a goalthat x intends to achieve.
It is furtherassumed that intentions can stand in acausal relat ion to behavior,  so:(8) ACT(x,S) : CAUSE( INTEND(x,g) ,DO(x,S))ACT and DO are closely related: ACT is theintent ional  counterpart of unintent ional  DO.DO: Let S denote a statement whosegrammatical  subject is x and whose predicatephrase is an event descr ipt ion (i.e., whosepredicate entails HAPPEN).
Then therelat ion between x and the event will beDO(x,S).
DO is essent ia l ly  a place holder.That is to say, DO will be restr icted tocontexts in which S can be a dummyvariable -- see (7) for example, whereDO(w,S') can be paraphrased as "w doessomething."
If S cannot be a dummyvariable -- if what x does is relevant tothe meaning -- then DO will  be replaced byan operator that makes the action explicit.CAUSE: Causation is too complex forbrief expl ication.
The fol lowingformulat ion is simply l ifted from Mil ler andJohnson-Laird:(9) CAUSE(S,S') =BEFORE(HAPPEN(S) ,HAPPEN(S' ) )  &notPOSSIBLE(S & notS')This formulat ion adds two moreoperators -- BEFORE and POSSIBLE -- forwhich accounts are needed.
It is obviousthat the plausibi l i ty  of (9) must dependvery heavi ly on POSSIBLE and on how alanguage user acquires general knowlldgeabout what combinat ions of events arepossible or impossible.
Lacking any clearpsychological  theory, POSSIBLE can be takenas a primitive, undef ined term.ALLOW: "Cause" and "allow" are closelyrelated, as a comparison of (9) with thefol lowing formulat ion shoud show:(10) ALLOW(S,S')  =BEFORE(HAPPEN(S) ,HAPPEN(S' ) )  &notPOSSIBLE (notS & S')Note that, although it is impossible for S"to occur unless S has occurred, theoccurrence of S does not insure thesubsequent occurrence of S'; that is to say,(S and notS') may well be possible.BEFORE: Sentences of the form "S beforeS'" can be interpreted to mean that there issome moment t such that S has been real izedat t and S" has not yet beenreal ized -- that there is an intervalbetween the first real izat ion of S and thefirst real izat ion of S'.
In terms of thetemporal operator R:(11) BEFORE(S,S" (~to)\[(3t)\[t<t~ & R~(S)\]&)nit & R~(S') \ ] J  (3t)\[t<t~TRAVEL: According to Mil ler (1972),verbs of motion const i tute a semantic fieldof Engl ish having "change of location" or,more briefly, "travel", as the core concept.It is suff ic ient evidence that something hastraveled if one notices that it has appearedwhere it wasn't before, or if one noticesthat it is no longer where it was before.These condit ions are accommodated by:(12) TRAVEL(z) = (~F)\[HAPPEN(AT(z,F))or HAPPEN(notAT(z,y)) \ ]for an appropr iate choice of the location yas the origin or dest inat ion of motion.
Thefirst disjunct represents "z travels to y"and the second "z travels from y.Mil ler and Johnson-Laird adopt theconvention of using A(B(x)) for sentent ialadverbials  and (A(B))(x) for predicateadverbials,  so the notation:31(13) (TO(TRAVEL))(z,y) : HAPPEN(AT(z,y))ref lects a judgment that "to y" is apredicate adverbial  in z traveled to y.This analysis of TRAVEL, however, introducessti l l  another operator, AT.AT: The form "z is at y" seems to meanthat z is included in the character ist icregion of interact ion with y. Mil ler andJohnson=laird give:(14) AT(z,y) = INCL(z,REGION(y))  &not INCL(y,REGION(z))The second conjunct is required todist inguish "at" from "with'.
If z and yare commensurate,  so that INCL issymmetr ical  between them, "with" is thepreferred preposit ion.The two operators used to define AT canboth be taken as pr imit ive concepts.
Therelat ion of spatial  inclusion that issupposed to be captured by INCL probablyderives rather direct ly from perception ofspatial  relations.
REGION, an operatorindicat ing the character ist ic  region ofinteract ion with its argument, derives from~eneral knoweldge of objects and their uses.HAND: Enough machinery has now beenintroduced to provide some rat ional izat ionfor the fol lowing formulation:(15) HAND(x,y,z)  : USE(x,hand,Sx) &CAUSE(Sx, (TO(TRAVEL)) (Z,F) )& CAUSE(TRAVEL(z) ,GET(y,z) )Apparent ly  some users ofanother meaning for "hand':Engl ish have(16) (TO(HAND))(x,z,y)  : USE(x,hand,Sx) &CAUSE(S~,(TO)TRAVEL)) (Z,F) )& ALLOW(TRAVEL(z) ,GET(y,z) )according to which x's action merely al lowsy to get z, rather than causes y to get z.As detai led as this analysis is, someomissions are obvious.
For example, thenoun "hand" introduced in (6) as theinstrument x uses is not only undefined, butno expl ic it  indicat ion is given that thehand x uses is x s own hand.
This relat ionof inal ienable possession could beintroduced, of course, by adding anappropr iate HAVE relat ion between x and thehand in question, but one feels that thisgoes beyond the l imits of lexicology -- thefact that people have hands and enjoy aspecial  user s pr iv i lege with respect tothem is surely part of one s generalknowledge about people.
Also omitted is anyrecognit ion of one s intuit ion that, when xhands z to y, not only does x use his handto del iver z, buy y also uses his hand toreceive it -- one would not ordinar i ly  say,for example, "I handed him his dinner" ifwhat one had done was to use one's hand tofeed the food into his mouth.
Thecharacter ist ic  region of interact ion withthe recipient is, in this case, his hand.Moreover, "hand" seems to impl icate y'sconscious acknowledgement that he hasreceived z -- one would not ordinar i ly  say32:~I handed it to him" if what one had donewas to slip it surrept i t ious ly  into his coatpocket.
Some of these features of "hand"could be introduced by definin~ GET in thethird conjunct of (16) to something like:USE(y,hand,ACCEPT(y,z) ) ,  with an appropr iateformula for ACCEPT.
Also omitted are anyexpl ic it  grounds for d ist inguishing handingfrom throwing -- something more would haveto be said about the temporal shape of thetransfer.
No doubt there are stil l otheromissions.
Since the present discussion of"hand" is merely an expository device tomotivate the introduct ion of certain verygeneral semantic operators, however, thedef in i t ion offered in (15) will be leftincomplete.The general problem of completenessrequires comment.
How far one should go inadding such features to a lexical analysisis an important quest ion of lexicology forwhich a pr incipled answer could be mostuseful.
There is at present no way torefute the claim that, after all generalcomponents of meaning have been specif ied asfully as possible, there wil l  always be ares iduum of meaning unique to eachpart icular  lexical item.Some Theoret ical  A l ternat ivesBeginning with the Engl ish verb "hand',several paths were fol lowed in search of itslexical primitives.
What turned up weresuch things as the symbols of f i rst -orderpredicate calculus, the concept of state,the generic concept of possession, the modaloperators R~ and POSSIBLE, the psychologicaloperator INTEND, and the spatial  operatorsINCL and REGION.
This is not an exhaust ivelist, but it is i l lustrat ive.
In each case,a level of general knowledge was reachedthat went beyond the usual bounds of alexicon.
In terms of these primit iveoperators it was then possible to offerformulas for such general and importantoperators as HAPPEN, USE, ACT, DO, CAUSE,ALLOW, BEFORE, TRAVEL, and AT; these; inturn, made possible a first approximat ion ofHAND.What is the status of these variousoperators?
In what sense are any of themlexical ly  "pr imit ive"?
Or, to ask a closelyrelated question, what is the status of the- that occurs in so many of theder ivat ions?Two kinds of answer can be suggested,one too s t rongand the other too weak.Somewhere between them seems the best placeto search.COMPLETE DECOMPOSITION: Probably thestrongest claim one cou\].d hope to make wouldresemble the fundamental  theorem ofar ithmetic,  e.g, any lexical item can beexpressed as a unique (Cartesian?)
productof prime lexical items.
In this case, =would be a reflexive, symmetric, andtransit ive relat ion -- synonymy -- betweenlexical items.
Since one reason for playingthe lexical decomposit ion game seems to bethe hope of reducing lexical var iety to aIIIIIiIiIIIIiIIiIIIrelat ively small set o f  concepts, someworkers might also insist that the number oflexical primes be finiie.
(Note,incidential ly,  that the number of differentprimes into which an integer can be factoredhas l ittle to do with the "complexity" ofthat integer, except in very special tasks;that is to say, for most tasks, reactiontimes to an integer would not correlate withits number of prime factors.
Presumably thesame could be said of the lexical version ofthis hypothesis.
)COMPLETE INDIVIDUALITY: Probably theweakest claim one would care to make is thateach individual lexical item is a uniqueprime in its own right; just as one personcannot be decomposed into some combinationof other persons, so no lexical item can bedecomposed into others.
Various sharedproperties might be used to partit ion thelexicon, and varous relations might be foundto hold between many pairs of lexical items,but such properties and relations could notbe regarded as conceptual atoms from whichlexical items are bult or to which they canbe reduced.
In this case, = would nothold between lexical items, although itmight be a convenient metal inguist icrelation between various properties,relations, or other theoretical  statements.
(Note again that no correlat ions would beexpected between reaction times and"complexity", since all individual lexicalitems are, presumably, equally complex.
)Although some theorists might beinterpreted as embracing one or the other ofthese alternaties, it seems more plausibleto regard them as upper and lower bounds.Complete decomposit ion is implausible inview of the di f f iculty lexicographers havein providing complete definit ions; there isusual ly some residuum of meaning, often butnot necessar i ly  affective, that vit iates theequivalence relation.
Completeindiv idual i ty is inadequate to explain therich and relat ively consistent patterns ofpropert ies and relations that have beendescribed.So, one is led to speculate aboutintermediate alternatives.
For example:Suppose there were many lexical items havingthe character ist ic  that, whenever theyoccurred in a simple declarat ive statement,that statement's ver i f icat ion required theexecution of some part icular cognit ive(perceptual or memorial) test.
That testwould, of course, part it ion the lexicon intothose items thatneeded it vs. those thatdid not, as the individual i ty hypothesissuggests.
One might go further, however,and argue that the need to perform this testand its acceptable outcome must be indicatedexpl ic i t ly  in the information associatedwith those lexical items and so, in a realsense, it can be said to be " incorporated"into their meanings (Gruber, 1965).
Thegoal of analysis would be to determine whichitems incorporated it, or in short, todecompose such items into that test plusanything else required for verif ication.This program falls short of completedecomposit ion in that: (I) it is adecomposit ion of words into cognit ive33entities, like tests, rather than into otherwords; (2) the method of incorpoation isleft unspecif ied, but would surely be morecomplex than taking a Cartesian product; and(3) there is no guarantee that decomposit ionwill be complete without introducing morecognit ive entit ies than there are lexicalitems to be defined, i.e., the problem ofthe residuum is unresolved.
But a sort ofl imited decomposit ion would be possible.LIMITED DECOMPOSITION: Every lexicalitem incorporates several primitive lexicalconcepts, but no primitive lexical conceptis expresed directly in a single lexicalitem.
Certain patterns of these primitiveconcepts recur frequently, and so give theimpression of underlying concepts into whichsurface words could be decomposed.Indiv idual i ty and the appearance of residualmeanings result from the existence of uniquelexical primit ives not expressed direct ly byany single word and not entering intorecurrent patterns.
Although underlyingconcepts (patterns of primitives) wouldreflect the considerable order that has beenrepeatedly noticed in the lexicon and inselect ional  restr ict ions for wordcombinations, it is not obvious that therecan be any unique solution to thedecomposit ion problem (any alternativeformulat ions may seem equally plausible) andtheoret ical  economy is highly unl ikely(there will not be fewer lexical primit ivesthan there are lexical items).The style of lexical analysisi l lustrated above for the English verb"hand" is taken as providing evidence forthe plausibi l i ty of such an intermediatetheoret ical  position.REFERENCESBendix, E.H. Componentia l  Analysis ofGeneralVocabulary:  The SemanticStructure of  A Set of  Verbs i__nn English,Hindi, and Japanese.
The Hague,Netherlands: Mouton, 1966.Green, G.M.
Semantics and SyntacticRegularity.
Bloomington: IndianaUniversity Press, 1974.Gruber, J.S.
Studies in lexical relations.Unpubl ished doctoral dissertation,Massachusetts  Inst itute of Technology,Cambridge: 1965.Miller, G.A.
English verbs of motion: Acase s tudy in semantics and lexicalmemory.
In A.W.
Melton & E.
Martin(eds.
), Codin~ Processes i__nn HumanMemorF.
Washington: Winston, 1972.Miller, G.A., & Johnson-Laird, P.N.PerceDtion and Language Cambridge:Harvard Univers i ty Press (in press).Rescher, N. & Urquhart, A. Temporal  Logic,New York: Springer-Verlag, 1971
