Understanding Human ActionCharles F. SchmidtRutgers UniversityNew Brunswick NJI.
INTRODUCTIONWittgenstein has said, "If a lion couldtalk, we could not understand him" (1958).The point of this rather cryptic comment isundoubtedly Wittgenstein 's  contention thatlanguage or "language games" are embedded inwhat he termed "forms of life."
That is, weare able to understand each other not justbecause we share common knowledge about thesyntactic and semantic conventions for theuse of words, but also because we sharecommon knowledge about the forms of life orsocial real i ty within which we live and act.Wittgenstein 's  remarkable lion wouldpresumably not share our social reality norwe have knowledge of the lion's socialreality.
Consequently, Wittgenstein wouldcontend that this l ion's exhibit ion ofspeech would not result in our being able tocommunicate with him nor he with us.If Wittgenstein were here today, hemight well contend that a computer thatdoesn't understand the forms of life of manwil l  not really be able to understand thespeech of man.Such an assert ion would probablygenerate quite a bit of controversy amongstthose of us interested in natural languageunderstanding.
Clearly, how one reacts tothis assert ion will depend upon how onewishes to expl icate the notion ofunderstanding.
As a psychologist  pr imari lyinterested in how persons understand andcommunicate with each other, I am incl inedtO take Wittgenstein 's  contention quiteseriously.The work on belief systems, which willbe discussed here, has been aimed atexplor ing and expl icat ing this relat ionshipbetween language use or language games andthe larger social real ity or forms of lifewithin which these language games areplayed.
Consequently, the focus of thiswork has not been upon the parsing ofsentences nor even upon the understanding ofparagraphs, but rather upon theunderstanding of human action.In pursuing this line of research, ithas been assumed that language use is notunderstood in this stronger sense ofunderstand unless what someone says can berelated to and understood in terms of thespeaker's beliefs, intentions, and goals.The central notions in reasoning abouthuman action are the concepts of a plan andof a reason or motive for performing a plan.A person's action is explained or understoodwhen this action can be identi f ied as partof the actor's plan and the reason why theactor chose to perform that plan can begiven.A model of how persons reason abouthuman action must include then: (I)196assumptions about how actors reason abouthuman action, that is, how a person arrivesat a plan; (2) assumptions about what cancount as a reason for a person choosing toperform or carry out a plan of action; and,finally, in order to use this theory as arecognizer of plans one must include (3)procedures for moving from the observat ionor l inguist ic report of actions to theident i f icat ion of the plans and motivat ionsthat have generated these reported orobserved actions of other persons.Natural language is used to describe,explain and evaluate human action andspeaking is itself a human action.
Thus,natural language provides both themeta- language that is used to discuss humanaction and the vehicle for performing thevarious human actions which Austin, Searle,and others (cf.
Austin, 1962; Searle, 1969;Strawson, 1964; Gandhi, 1974) have referredto as speech acts.
Consequently,  a goal ofthis research is to develop a system whichwill accept a l inguist ical ly  encodeddescr ipt ion of a sequence of actions andthen be capable of answering questions aboutthe beliefs and motivat ions which the systembelieves explains these actions.Since natural language represents themeta- language within which human action isdescribed and explained, natural languagehas been examined in order to identi fy theconcepts which are pecul iar to thediscussion of human action.
Once theseconcepts are identif ied, then the problem isone of determining: (I) how to representthese concepts; (2) how these concepts areorganized into a "theoret ical"  system; and(3) the nature of the processes which usethis system of concepts to reason aboutreported or observed actions.
In thedevelopment of BELIEVER some fair ly concreteideas about the representat ion andorganizat ion of these concepts have beendeveloped and various procedures for usingthese concepts to identi fy the plans andpurposes of the actors have been tried, butthis latter problem remains an area where agreat deal of work must yet be done.In order to try to communicate ourthinking as succinct ly as possible theintroduct ion of technical  notat ion will beavoided.
The papers by Schmidt (1972;Schmidt and D'Addamio, 1973) and by Bruce(Bruce and Schmidt, 1974; Bruce, 1974) allfocus upon representat ion and organizat ion.The papers by Schmidt(1973) and Brown(1974)discuss the implemetat ion of earl iera lgor i thms for plan recognit ion and theinterested reader is referred to thesepapers for addit ional  detai l  and technicaldiscussion.The assumption that action isunderstood by attr ibut ing a plan and motiveto the actor has highl ighted the importanceof the fol lowing types of concepts which arefound in natural language.
Those conceptswhich have f igured prominent ly in thetheoret ical  development are: (I) Acts suchas: give, buy, say, ask, promise, help, ...(2) Act Relat ions such as: make possible,motivate, prevent, allow, ... (3) Cognit iveIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIStates such as: believe, know, expect, ...(4) Disposit ional  Propert ies such as: can,ought, ... (5) Mot ivat ional  States such as:want, desire, ... (6) Role Relations suchas: father of, friend of, ... and RoleTerms such as: father, friend, customer, ...(7) Evaluative States such as: values,likes, hates, ....Conceptual types I through 3 above andthe concept of "can" f igure most prominentlyin reasoning about plans, whereas conceptualtypes 5 through 7 and the concept of "ough%"are important ly involved in reasoning aboutmotive.II.
PLANS AND THE REPRESENTATION OF ACTSCons idered  from the point of viewdeveloped here, a plan is not simply anappropr iate ly  structured sequence ofactions.Rather, a plan is the internalrepresentat ion or set of 'bel iefs about how apart icular goal may be achieved that isattr ibuted to the actor in order to explainthe observed or reported actions of thatpart icular actor.
This dist inct ion isimportant to recognize in thinking abouthuman action.
Fai lure to maintain thisdist inct ion can lead one to consider thefol lowing two statements to be equivalent:(A) P performed act(i) and state(k) was aconsequence of act(i) and state(k) enabled Pto perform act(j).
(B) P performed act(i)and state(k) was a consequence of act(i) andstate(k) enabled P to perform act(j) and Pperformed act(i) in order to be able toperform act(j).It is obvious from the way in which Aand B have been stated that B implies A butnot the converse.
The second statementattr ibutes to the actor the belief thatdoing act(i) would result in his being ableto do act(j).
Thus, the logic of explainingaction in terms of plans involves more thana recognit ion of an intersect ion between aconsequence of one act ion and a precondit ionon some subsequent action.
If it did notour jails would be much fuller.If plans do involve beliefs of thistype and if we agree that statement A doesnot imply statement B then precisely how arewe able, as observers of actions, to move att imes from an observat ion or report whichsat isf ies A to a statement equivalent to B?One possib i l i ty  is that we might directlyobserve beliefs.
Except for a few staunchbel ievers in ESP, this posit ion seems tohave very few adherents.
A secondpossibi l i ty is that we are able to makeobservat ions of one kind or another whichare independent of the observed actionswhich al low us to regular ly and rel iablyinfer the bel ief states of others.
Thereare a few psychologists who seem wil l ing toargue for this posit ion in pr inciplealthough I know of no psychological  evidenceto support this position.
In any case, itseems unl ikely that our commonsense theoryof human action contains rules of inferenceof this type which have somehow escaped thenotice of the scientists in psychology.197Having argued that beliefs areattr ibuted to another neither through aprocess of deduction nor a process ofinduction, the problem of trying tocharacter ize exactly what kind of "logic" isinvolved remains.
The logic of this type ofreasoning may be roughly character ized inthe fol lowing way.First, if the observer has made someobservat ion which is of the form ofstatement A, then the observer recognizesthat this observat ion counts as one reasonfor bel ieving that a statement of the formof B is the case.
The observer may know orbelieve other proposit ions which may alsocount as reasons for bel ieving a proposit ionof the form of B and the observer may knowor bel ieve stil l other proposit ions whichmay count as reasons for not bel ieving thata statement of the form of B correct lycharacter izes the bel iefs of the actor.Next, the consistency of these variousreasons must be assessed.
The action isunderstood when the observer has arr ived atsome consistent set of reasons forattr ibut ing to the actor certain beliefs andmotives which explain the actor'sperformance of the act ion in question.Now if this accurately character izesthe reasoning process, then acts must, forpurposes of reasoning about plans, berepresented in a fashion that will yieldaccess to the kinds of bel iefs that must beattr ibuted to the actor if his action is tobe descr ibed using a part icular act concept.For example, the action "P handing a quarterto R" where P and R are two differentpersons, may under various c ircumstances bedescribed as an act of "buying," "repaying,""helping," and so on.
Which part iculardescr ipt ion is most appropr iate wil l  dependupon whether or not there is a basis forat t r ibut ing to the actor, P, the addit ionalbel iefs and motives that are implied by theconcepts "buy," "repay," and "help.
Theclass of actions termed speech acts has beenextensively  discussed and the nature of ourapproach to represent ing acts may be br ief lyexempl i f ied by consider ing the speech act"request" or "ask."
Table I presents in avery informal way the kinds of informationwhich must be represented and associatedwith "request" in some way in order tocapture the structure of the plan or subplanthat "request" stands for.
Those terms inTable I which have been capita l ized form thebasis for the formal representat ion ofspeech acts.
Except fo r  those statementswhich appear under the subheading of OutcomePossibi l i t ies,  each statement refers topsychological  states of the actors.
Thus,an act name is simply a way of organiz ing aset of bel iefs about how a "move" of thistype might be related to other moves oractions and to the cognit ive andmot ivat ional  states of the actors.The statements referred to as the CanCondit ions express those condit ions whichmust be true in order for this action tohave been planned.
CI expresses the factthat the agent must have bel ieved that hewas able to transmit his message to therecipient.
This is expressed at a veryAct Name: RequestArgument List: agent: A; recipient: R; message: M; requestedresponse: XCan Condit ions: CI: A EXPECTS that A CAN CAUSE some actionsuch that that action results in R KNOWING A's message.
C2~ AEXPECTS that R will CHOOSE to UNDERSTAND A's message C3: ABELIEVES that R BELIEVES certain proposit ions; AND A EXPECTS that\[R's KNOWING A's message AND R BELIEVING certain proposit ions\]wil l  result in R BELIEVING: (I) A WANTS X (2) A WANTS R to CAUSE X(3) A BELIEVES that R CAN CAUSE X (4) A EXPECTS that A'sREQUESTING may MOTIVATE R to CAUSE X (5) A BELIEVES tha,t R was NOTMOTIVATED toCAUSE X prior to A's REQUEST.Goal Hypotheses: GI: R BELIEVES that A WANTS R to CAUSE XG2: A's REQUEST may MOTIVATE R to CAUSE XOutcome Possibi l i t ies:  O1: R wil l  UNDERSTAND A'sCOMMUNICATIONACT 02: If Someone PERCEIVES A's message, then thatSomeone CAN UNDERSTAND A's COMMUNICATIONACTMot ivat ional  Hypotheses: MI: A WANTS RWANTS R to CAUSE X M2: A WANTS XM3: A WANTS R to CAUSE Xto BELIEVE that ANormative Obl igat ions:  NI: If someone BELIEVES that A isCOMMUNICATING then that someone BELIEVES that A OUGHT toUNDERSTAND A's message N2: If R BELIEVES that A is COMMUNICATINGto R then R BELIEVES that R OUGHT to UNDERSTAND A's message N3: IfR BELIEVES that A is REQUESTING that R CAUSE X AND R EXPECTS toNOT CAUSE X then R BELIEVES that R OUGHT to EXPLAIN to A why REXPECTS to NOT CAUSE XTABLE I. Representat ion of the Action REQUEST198IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIgeneral level by s ta t ingthat  any causingwhich the agent performs which brings aboutthe recipient's knowledge of the agent'smessage can count as an action done in orderto partially make possible the performanceof the request.
For example, uttering asentence in the recipient's presence,sending the recipient a telegram or letter,requesting another person to give themessage to the recipient, etc.
are allactions which could under the appropriatecircumstances be viewed as part of theagent's requesting X of the reclpien~.Thus, the information in CI provides a basisfor generating hypotheses about how otherobserved actions might be related to thisplan of requesting.Statements C2 and C3 differ from CI inthat whereas CI states that some action of aparticular type must be taken by the agent,statements C2 and C3 simply stateexpectations that the agent must have.However, by stating what conditions theagent must expect, these statements may alsoprovide a basis for recognizing thatprevious actions are related to the plan ofrequesting.
For example, if the agent firstaddresses the recipient by name, this actionmay have been done in order to provide abasis for expecting that the recipient willlisten to his request.
Similarly, the agentmay precede a request for a ride home with arequest for information about whether or notthe recipient drove to work today.
Thisinformation would provide the agent thebasis for forming a belief about condition(3) of C3.Whereas the Can Conditions provide abasis for generating hypotheses about howprevious actions might fit into the plan ofrequesting, the Goal Hypotheses provide theinformation needed to generate hypothesesabout how the action of requesting mightitself fit into some larger plan of theagent.For example, G2 provides the basis forthe hypothesis that the purpose of theagent's request was to create in therecipient some set o f  beliefs that willpartially provide the reason or motivationfor the recipient to cause X.The Outcome Possibilities express theinformation needed to recognize cases whereA's plan goes awry or generates side-effectswhich enable latter actions which were notthe focus of the agent's plan.
For example,someone might overhear the agent's requestand offer to fulfill the agent's request.This would then be a very differentsituation from the one that might resultfrom a similar offer from the intendedrecipient of the request.In 01, 02 and in the various normativestatements the concept UNDERSTAND isintroduced.
UNDERSTAND is being used herein a technical sense that deserves comment.From the point of view of BELIEVER, part ofthe actor's knowledge of his social world isthat other person's are capable ofinterpreting and coming to an understandingof any observed action.
That is, otherpersons also possess belief systems andtherefore in communicating with another onemust recognize that the overt action, whathas been termed the message, will beinterpreted by others within the context oftheir beliefs about the actor's plan andmotive.
Thus, the theory of human action isessentially recursive.
This is recognizedmore explicitly in the statement of C3 whichstates that the agent must select a messagewhich when taken together with the agent'sbeliefs about the recipient's currentbeliefs can be expected to result in therecipient arriving at an understanding ofthe agent's action as a request.
Thischaracteristic of communication helps toexplain why most everyday communicationoccurs in such an abbreviated form.
To usea non-abbreviated form can be insultingsince it could be interpreted by therecipient as a presupposition by the agentthat the recipient is unable to recognizeand understand the other's action.
The termCOMMUNICATIONACT is used in 01 and 02 inrecognition of the fact that the recipientor observer of an action may understand theagent's action in a way other than thatintended by the agent.The Motivational Hypotheses andNormative Obl igat ions  represent statementswhich are most importantly involved inreasoning about motive.
The MotivationalHypotheses provide the basis for generatinghypotheses about the agent's wants whereasthe Normative Obligations provideinformation about the motivational sideeffects of performing actions to whichvarious social norms apply.
For example, NIis essentially a statement of the sinceritynorm which applies to all communication actsand asserts that the communicator ought tobelieve what he is communicating.
N2 statesthat it is improper to ignore someone whomyou believe is speaking to you.N2 is related to C2 since N2 providesthe norm which can be used to provide thebasis for expecting another person to try tounderstand the agent's message.
Finally, N3states that if the recipient has understoodthe agent's action as a request and if therecipient is not planning to fulfill thatrequest, then the recipient ought to explainto the agent why he will not honor therequest.
Thus, this norm provides a basisfor generating hypotheses about therecipient's response to the agent's requestor the agent's response to the lack of aresponse from the recipient.
This lattercase is especially important since one ofthe interesting characteristics of humanaction is that under certain circumstances,the lack of a response counts as an actionwhich itself must be explained.Clearly, if an act of omission is to berecognized, the observer must have a basisfor expecting the act that was omitted.
N3also provides the basis for variousstrategic actions.
For example, thepanhandler who asks a bypasser for a dollarand then demands with great moralindignation an explanation for the ?bypasser's lack of response is playing uponthis particular norm.199Having focussed in some detail upon therepresentation of this one particular act,it is now possible to briefly and roughlystate the position that this leads toconcerning memory and inference.
First, itis assumed that human conceptual memory isin some sense organized around variouspoints-of-view.
The representation sketchedin Table I suggests the meaning" of"request" from our Belief System point ofview.
However, "request" also has arepresentation from a linguistic point ofview and this would require that differentkinds of information and relations bespecified that would reflect this point ofview.
Thus, the general assumption is thatconcepts can play various roles in various"theories" that the Understander posseses.Which particular point of view is "active"at a particular time should depend upon thegoals of the understanding system at thatpoint in time.
Thus, the position here isnot that the kind of representation for theconcept "request" that is presented in TableI rep laces  or is logically prior to arepresentation of "request" as a linguisticentity.Secondly, and more specifically withrespect to the conceptual memory forconcepts within the Belief Systems domain,the assumption has been made that theorganization of knowledge reflects the rolethat that knowledge plays within the"theory" that the Understander uses toreason about the domain.
The varioussubheadings provided in Table I and thediscussion of this information was intendedto reflect the view that the conceptualstructures of human memory containinformation about how they fit into or canbe used to answer or reason about thevarious types of questions that must begenerated and answered by a reasoningprocess that is attempting to understand anaction in a particular way.
Thus, theseconcepts are ,'hypotheses" laden structureswhich serve as the basis for generating thegoals and subgoals of the reasoning process.From this point of view, reasoning aboutaction is itself a goal driven process wherethe ',top-level" goals are to find a plan anda motive for the actor which explains hisaction.
An attempt to view the actor'saction as a request, provides the basis forgenerating new goals for the understandingsystem.
That is, the request structurespecifies the kind of additional informationto be assembled which would count as reasonsfor viewing the observed act as a request.Finally, since it is assumed that theunderstanding of human action is atheory-driven process, it is also assumedthat the representation of particular eventsin memory reflects the operation of thistheory.
Understanding is viewed as aconstructive process and what will beremembered is not simply a representation of"what happened", but rather an organizationand elaboration of what happened thatreflects the way in which the observer hasunderstood what happened.200Acknowledgements: G. Brown, B. Bruce, J.Goodson, A. Sedlak and N. Sridharan haveall been involved at one time or antoher inthis work on belief systems and they alongwith S. Amarel and W. Fabens havecontributed to much of the work describedhere.
Most of what makes sense in thispaper is due to their various contributions.The nonsense is the author's own.REFERENCESAustin, J. L. How to Do Things with Words.Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1962.Brown, G. The BELIEVER System.
ComputerScience Department,Rutgers, 1974, NIH Report CBM-TR-33.Bruce, B. C. Belief Systems and LanguageUnderstanding.
Computer ScienceDepartment, Rutgers, 1975, NIH ReportCBM-TR-41.Bruce, B. C. and Schmidt, C. F. EpisodeUnderstanding and Belief Guided Parsing.Computer Science Department,Rutgers, 1974, NIH Report CBM-TR-32.Gandhi, R. Presuppositions of HumanCommunication.
OxfordUniversity Press, Delhi, 1974.Schmidt, C. F. Modeling of Belief Systems.Section 3.
Second Annual Report of theRutgers Special Research Resource onComputers in Biomedicine.
1973.Computer ScienceDepartment, Rutgers.Schmidt, C. F. A Computer Simulation Modelof the Social Perception ofInterpersonal Episodes.
ComputerScienceDepartment, 1972, NIH Report CBM-TR-11A.Schmidt, C. F. and D'Addamio, J.
A Modelof the Common-Sense Theory of Intentionand Personal Causation.
Proc.
ThirdInternational Joint Conference onArtificialIntelligence, Stanford, 1973.Searle, J. R. Speech Acts.
CambridgeUniversity Press,London, 1969.Strawson, P. F. Intention and Conventionin Speech Acts.
Ph~losophical Review,1964, LXXIII, 439-460.Wittgenstein, L. PhilosQphicalInvestigations.
Macmillan,New York, 1958.
(Tr.
by G. E. M.Anscombe).IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
