ItIIiI!I|IItI!1I!|IUSING KNOWLEDGE TO UNDERSTANDRoger C. SchankYale Univers i tyNew Haven CTMinsky's frames paper has created quitea stir within AI but it is not ent irelyclear that any given researcher who wouldagree that the frames approach is correctwould agree with any other researcher 'sconception of what exact ly that meant.
Whatis a frame anyway?It has been apparent to researcherswithin the domain of natural  languageunderstanding for some time that theeventual limit to our solution of thatproblem would be our abi l i ty to character izeworld knowledge.
In order to build a realunderstanding system it will be necessary toorganize the knowledge that faci l i tatesunderstanding.
We view the process ofunderstanding as the f itt ing in of newinformation into a previously organized viewof the world.
Thus we would extend ourprevious view of language analysis (Schank\[1973\] and Riesbeck \[1974\]) to the problemof understanding in general.
That is, alanguage processor is bottom up unti l  itgets enough information to enable it to makepredict ions and become top down.
Inputsentences (like input words inintra-sentence analysis) set up expectat ionsabout what is l ikely to fol low in the text.These expectat ions arise from the worldknowledge that pertains to a givensituation, and it is these expectat ions thatwe wish to explore here.We choose to call our version offrames, SCRIPTS.
The concept of a script,as we shall use it here, is a structure thatis made up of slots and requirements on whatcan fill those slots.
The structure is aninterconnected whole, and what is in oneslot affects what can be in another.
Theentire structure is a unit that descr ibes as ituat ion as a whole and makes sense to theuser of that script, in this case thelanguage understander.A script is a predetermined sequence ofact ions that define a situation.
Scriptsare responsible for, and can be recognizedby, the fact that they al low for referencesto objects with in them Just as if thatobject had been ment ioned before.
That is,certain objects within a script may bereferenced by "the" because the scripti tself  has impl ic i t ly  introduced them.Some examples:I. John went into the restaurant.He ordered a hamburger, but he found ittasteless.He asked the wait ress to yell at thechef for him.II.
John got in his car.When he put the key in, he didn't hear athing.He cal led the garage.i17In these paragraphs, what we arecal l ing scripts play a major role.
We havediscussed previously (Schank \[1974\]) howparagraphs are represented as causal chainsin memory.
This work implies that whenevera s to ry  is understood, inferences must bemade that wil l  connect up each inputconceptual izaton to those that relate to itin the story.
This connect ing up process isdiff icult  and dependent upon the making ofinferences to tie together seeminglyunrelated pieces of text.
However, it is aprocess that can be faci l i tated tremendouslyby the use of scripts.We define a script as a predeterminedcausal chain of conceptual izat ions thatdescribe the normal sequence of things in afamil iar situation.
Thus there is arestaurant script, a birthday-party script,a footbal l  game script, a classroom script,and so on.
Each script has in it a minimumnumber of players and objects that assumecertain roles with in the script.
A scriptis wr i tten from the point of view of aplayer in one of these roles.
Dif ferentscripts are def ined when dif ferent roles areused as the focus of a situation.The fo l lowing is a sketch of a scriptfor a restaurant from the point of view ofthe customer:script: restaurantroles: customer; waitress; chef; cashierreason: to get food so as to go down inhunger and up in pleasurescene I enter ingPTRANS - go into restaurantMBUILD - find tablePTRANS - go to tableM O V E  - sit downscene 2 orderingATRANS - receive menuATTEND - look at itMBUILD - decide on orderMTRANS - tell order to waitressscene 3 eatingATRANS - receive foodINGEST - eat foodscene 4 exit ingMTRANS - ask for checkATRANS - give tip to waitressPTRANS - go to cashierATRANS - give money to cashierPTRANS - go out of restaurantIn this script, each primit ive act iongiven stands for the most important elementin a standard set of actions.
Theinstruments for performing each act ion mightvary with the c ircumstances,  as might thewhole act itself.
For example, in scene I,the problem of f inding a table might behandled by a maitre d', and if therestaurant is fancy enough this mightrequire an ATRANS of money.
These var iablesaside, the above script expresses thegeneral flow of events.Within each act sequence, the principleof causal chaining (see Schank \[.1973\]) isused.
That is, each action results incondit ions that enable the next to occur.New information that is received from theanalysis of a text is interpreted in termsof its place within one of the causal chainswithin the script.Thus in paragraph I, the first sentenceexempli f ies the first action in scene I.Sentence 2 refers to the last line of scene2 and the last line of scene 3.
In addit ionit provides information about the result ofthe INGEST in scene 3.
The third sentencedoes not fit anywhere in the script, butrather is part of a subscript that definescomplaining behavior.
(Such a subscript canbe cal led by certain scripts that deal withservices rovided by an organization.)
Thefinal representat ion of paragraph I wouldcontain the entire restaurant script, f i l ledin with what was speci f ical ly  stated andwith assumptions about what must of beentrue also included (that he sat down, forexample).
In addit ion there would be acomplaining script attached to the entiredescr ipt ion at the appropr iate point in thefinal representat ion.The general form for a script then is aset of paths that conjoin at certain crucialpoints.
These crucial points serve todefine the script.
The paths of a scriptare the possib i l i t ies that are extant in asituation.A script is made up of a number ofdistinct parts.
In order to know when ascript is appropr iate a set of scriptheaders are necessary.
These headers definethe c i rcumstances under which a script iscal led into play.
Certain key words servethis purpose together with a range ofcontexts in which those words may or may notfit.
The headers for the restaurant scriptare the words restaurant, diner, out to eat,and so on when ment ioned in the context of  aplan of act ion for gett ing fed.
States suchas hunger can call up the restaurant scriptas well.
Obviously contexts must berestr icted so as to not call the restaurantscript for sentences which use the wordrestaurant only as a place (i.e., "Fuel oilwas del ivered to the restaurant.
")S i tuat ional  scripts have crucial partswhich can be said to define them.
Forrestaurants the crucial  parts are the INGESTand the ATRANS of money.
All other partshave al ternat ives that al low for certainpaths within the script to be fol lowed whi leothers are ignored.
Thus, ordering may bedone by MTRANSing to a waiter or byselect ing and taking what you like (as in acafeteria).
L ikewise the ATRANSing may bedone by going to the cashier or paying thewaitress, or saying "put it on my bill".These var iat ions indicate that a s i tuat ionalscript is not a simple list of events, butrather a l inked causal chain that can branchinto mult iple possible paths.
These pathscome together again at crucial def iningparts of the script.118We believe that the nature of humanmemory is episodic.
By that we mean thatmemory is organized around past sequences ofaction.
When certain sequences happen oftenenough general ized s i tuat ional  scripts cometo be associated with the words orc ircumstances that set them up, as theirdefinit ion.
People that have not had afamil iar i ty with a given situation cannot beexpected to have a script for thatsituation.
Chi ldren learn these scripts byrepeated associat ions with them.
We learnto make sense of the world, by organiz ingthe knowledge that we have so as to enableus to interpret new data in  terms of ourexpectatons.
These expectat ions have beengenerated, in part, by scripts.
This isreal ly no more than saying tha a person whohas never been to a footbal l  game will haveno script by which he can understand theevents that go on there.
(There is animportant human abi l i ty to general izescripts from others of course.
So if he hasseen other games it wil l  help.
)Not everything one encounters in lifehas necessar i ly  been seen before.
OnOccasion we encounter novel s i tuat ions inwhich we must create a plan or elseunderstand somebody @lse's plan.
Considerthe fol lowing:John wanted to become chiefsupervisor at the plant.
Hedecided to go and get some arsenic.How are to make sense of such aparagraph?
This paragraph make no use ofs i tuat ional  words or the scripts that theydenote.
It would be unreasonable to posit a"want to be a supervisor"  script that hadall the necessary acts laid out as in ourrestaurant script.
But, on the other hand,the s i tuat ion being descr ibed is notent ire ly novel, either.
The problem ofunderstanding this paragraph would not bes igni f icant ly  di f ferent if "chief supervisorof thep lant"  were changed to "president ofthe men s club" or "king", the s imi lar i ty  isthat there is a general goal state that isthe same in each case and a general ized planor group of plans that may potent ia l ly  leadto that goal state.
One possible desiredgoal state is POWER.
The plan in memoryassociated with POWER is probably fair lycomplex.
For that reason we have chosen todeal in the init ia l  stages with a s implerworld than that of general  society.
We havechosen bears.Suppose you are a bear in the woods andyou can talk to the other animals there andyou are hungry.
It is necessary to developa plan of act ion that wil l  enable you toeat.
In the dul lest of eases, you havealways l ived in the same old forest, in thatforest is a bee's nest that regular lyproduces honey which they al low you to take.So you fol low the course of action that youhave used many times before and you get fed.This is a script.
A script is appl iedwhenever a course of act ion is laid out andneed only be bl indly fol lowed in order toachieve a goal.
Thus it is basical ly a setof knowledge associated with a given goal.!!!!!IIt|!!!|!!||!
!But the dullest of cases is of coursenot the best one to learn things from.
So,now suppose that you are a bear in the woodswho has not been a bear in the woods before.You have no set script to follow, all youknow is what you like to eat.
In that casei you must develop a PLAN.
In order todiscuss what such a plan might look like, wemust first point out that the setting downof a plan that will work is not the same asl the creation of a plan.
If you use aprestored plan for getting food in the woodsyou have cheated.
You have used a script.In creating a plan we make use of some.~ general knowledge about goals and subgoals.I Such general knowledge is made up ofsequences of actions that are used to obtaincertain goals.
Abstract entities calledPLANS are names of possible combinations ofl action sequences (sort of mini-scripts) thatwill achieve a given goal.If you want to eat you must GET somefood.
This information is found byl consulting two sources.
First, the desiredACT INGEST requires "food" as its object.Second, in order to do any ACT on anyphysical object, you must have that physicall object in proximity.
The plan to do this iscalled GET(X), where X is the object beingsought.
The plan GET(X) should tell us howto obtain the needed X in a way that usesknowledge about getting things in generalt before it uses knowledge about X inparticular.Once it is established that GET(X) iswhat we want, the problem is to translatethe abstract entity GET(X) into a sequenceof conceptualizatons that can actually beexecuted.
GET(X) is simply the name of aset of subplans: FIND(X) PROX(X) andi TAKE(X).
FIND(X) is the name of a set ofpossible sequences of actions that willresult in the state that will enable PROX(X)to be executed.
PROX(X) stands for thel possible sets of actions that get an actorwhere he wants to be.
In order to do thatan actor must know the location of X. Sowhen FIND(X) is done the knowledge aboutwhere to go has been detemlned.
ThisI knowledge enables PROX(X) which tells how toget there.
Now TAKE(X) can be executed.The successful completion of TAKE(X) enablesthe ultimate goal INGEST(X).l above entities the of The are namesPLANS.
PLANS are made up of desired stagesand the actions that will effect themtogether with the cost and circumstancesI surrounding the choice of a particular setat a particular time.
The possible pathsare called PLANBOXES.
Planboxes are made upof conceptualizations that will yieldi desired state changes together with thepreconditions that must be satisfied inorder to enact the actions in thoseconceptualizations.We can now examine one plan inparticular.
The TAKE plan is intended toenable whatever is done with an object ingeneral, to be done at this particular time.i Consequently its eventual result ispotentially different if what is to be doneis physical or social.
On the physicallevel, the result is always ATRANS which isaccomplished by means of a PTRANS.
Theenabling conditions for the ATRANS are thensimply the enabling conditions for thePTRANS.
In order to PTRANS something youmust be physically proximate to it, so th~location of the object and the taker must beidentical or a PTRANS to the location of theobject must have previously taken p lace .The result of the ATRANS above is thata possession change exists.
This willenable the final desired ACT to take place.The  TAKE plan is concerned with eliminatingany preconditions that might get in the wayof the enabling PTRANS.
The preconditionsare that no one else has CONTROL of theobject being sought or else that there areno concomitant bad consequences in theattempt to PTRANS to self.
The TAKE plansimply calls a PTRANS if all thepreconditions are positive.
However ifsomeone else CONTROLS the object, a plan forgaining CONTROL must be called.
The roughoutline of the TAKE plan is then as follows:TAKE (X)PTRANS (X to B) $CONT $LINK,$UNITMTRANS (ATRANS?
X to B) to YDECIDE ON PLANDoes Y want something?Fear something?Am I honest?BARGAIN INFORM STEAL THREATEN TRADE ASK OVER-POWERThe theoretical constructs used hereare as follows:A DELTACT (a state preceded by a $) is adesired state change that has attached to ita set of questions.
The answer to thesequestions determines which planbox shall bechosen (i.e.
the one appropriate to thesituation).
A Deltact has numerousplanboxes attached to it.
These planboxesdefine the Deltact Just as Inferences definea primitive ACT.A Plan is the name of a desired actionwhose realization may be a simple action (Aconceptualization involving a primitiveACT).
However, if it is realized that somestate blocks the doing of that action, theplan may be translated into a deltact tochange the state that impedes the desiredACT.
Thus, a Plan has attached to it agroup of deltacts with tests for selectingbetween them.
The attached Deltaets must betaken care of any time that the state they!
119change is found to be true.A Planbox is a list of primitive ACTsthat when performed wil l  achieve a goal.Associated with each primit ive ACT are theset of condit ions under which that ACT canbe performed.
Within a planbox thosecondit ions are checked.
A set of condit ionsthat are posit ive al low for the complet ionof the desired ACT.
Negative condit ionscall up new planboxes or deltacts that haveas their goal the resolut ion of the blockingstate.
Complet ion of the ACTs in these .newplanboxes remedies the state thus enabl ingthe ACT that will remedy a state that wil lenable an ACT and so on.When TAKE calls up $CONT it isnecessary to select a planbox and attempt todo the first ACT in the box.
In order toselect a box the salient aspects of what isin the set of boxes avai lable must beconsidered.
Under every Deltact we have:The set of quest ions that are relevant forchoosing an appropr iate planbox; (Choice ofplanbox is shown here by the number of therelevant box after a question.)
Some entryvariables that fill in the part iculars inthe general ly  appl icable planboxes; A set ofplanboxes relevant to changing the desiredstate.
Within the planboxes are: The ACT tobe done; the control led precondit ions (CP)that must be checked to see if the ACT canbe done.
These precondit ions are foundunder the relevant ACT (i.e.
in the bearworld in order to MTRANS it is necessary tohave close physical  location to therecipient of the MTRANS).
Negative CPs maybe fixed by remedying the bad state.
TheACT to do is l isted under negative (-) if itis special; the uncontro l led precondit ions(UP) are those which can block execution ofa plan but cannot be remedied.
If the UPsare negative another planbox must be tried;the mediat ing precondit ions (MP) are thosewhich can be altered, but probably require aplan of their own to change.
They refer tothe wi l l ingness of second parties topart ic ipate in a plan; The result (RES)indicates the act ions and states that wil lbe true after a plan meets itsprecondit ions.Under $CONT we have:$CONTMBUILD Is W true and a good reasonfor ATRANS?
1Object not valuable?
6Does Y value an object?
3Can B get Z?
3Does Y want something done?
2Can B do it?
2Is B honest?
4,5,1T,2T,3T(T=trick option)Is B more powerful  than Y?
5$CONT entry variables:i: $CONT2: ATRANS3: Y CONT X120i.
INFORM REASON 6.
ASKACT B MTRANS W is TRUE ACT B MTRANS 2?IR CP for MTRANSY ATRANS X to B UP 3CP those for MTRANS MP Y wants to 2UP 3 RES 2 cause 1MP Y bel ieves BRES 2 cause 12.
BARGAIN FAVORACT B MTRANS B DO~IR2CP for MTRANS, ATRANSUP 3MP Y wants B to DORES B DO cause 2 cause 13.
BARGAIN OBJECTACT B MTRANS B f ATRANS Z to Y ~i" IR2CP for MTRANS, ATRANSUP 3MP Y wants ZRES B ATRANS cause 2 cause 14.
STEALACT B ATRANS X to BCP those for ATRANS and+ LOC(Y) = LOC(X)or LOC(X) '+ MLOC(IM(Y) )- PROX (Y)or DISTRACT(Y)UP noneMP noneRES 2 cause 15.
THREATENACT B MTRANScf  2B~DOIRY STATE(-)CP for MTRANS and DOUP 3MP Y fears state (-)RES 2 cause 17 .
9 _ ~ACT B DO@ E/Y DO@ E/2CP enabl ing condi-t ions on DOs areknown and hand lab leUP 3MP Y cannot preventB DORES 1A desired state change has connected toit a set of quest ions that determine thechoice of planboxes.
A plan box is notspecif ic  to a given state, but apredetermined  col locat ion of them serve todefine a deltact.
P lanboxes have threevariables attached to them which are f i l ledin by the part icular  deltact under whichthey have been selected.
These are: I: thedesired state change, 2: the ACT thatchanges that state, 3: the previous statethat now holds.
The precondit ions that mustbe sat is f ied are those that are true for agiven pr imit ive ACT regardless of itsoccurrance in a part icu lar  planbox.A given planbox could be used in manydif ferent s ituations.
The BARGAINOBJECT boxwil l  work for CONT, but also wil l  work as apossible strategy under LIKE, SEXSATIATION,POWER (buying votes ?)
and any others i tuat ion where someone can be convinced todo something that wil l  help you by means ofgiving them something.!
!IIiIr~ !iieeil!!,!!!
!i!In fact, 1,2,3,5,6, above can be seenas part of a persuade package that will getinvoked whenever one person s plan dependson the actions of another.
Under FIND(X)above the deltact associated with KNOW getscalled.
If it is assumed that others knowthen the persuade package may be used as ameans of getting them to tell you.
Somewords refer to planboxes that have been usedunder certain goals.
Thus, "rob" isTHREATEN under $CONT, and "rape" is THREATENor OVERPOWER under SEXSATIATION.A very small number of goals andplanboxes should be necessary to define theplans that are used in the world.
Theyshould constitute a new set of primit iveentit ies that work on top of those thatunderl ie language directly.Lest the problem we have been attackingget too fuzzy, it is probably time to stopand make a few points.I.
In order to understand itnecessary to have knowledge.is2.
One type of knowledge is that whichdeals with mundane events.3.
This kind of knowledge is used forunderstanding what was said as wellas for guiding the inferenceprocess to fill in the details in amundane event.Schank, R. (1973b) Causal ity and Reasoning.Institute for Semantic and Cognit iveStudies, Technical  Report I.Schank, R. (1974) Understanding Paragraphs.Inst itute for Semantic and Cognit iveStudies, Technical  report 6.4.
A second type of knowledge is thatwhich deals with behavior based onan assessment of the goals peoplehave and knowledge that deals withpaths to the attainment of thosegoals.5.
The inference process that is thecore of understanding is not randombut rather is guided by knowledgeof the s ituat ion one is trying tounderstand.Thus, our answer to "What is a frame?
"is that a frame is a general name for aclass of knowledge organiz ing techniquesthat guide and enable understanding.
Twotypes of frames that are necessary areSCRIPTS and PLANS.
Scripts and plans areused to understand and generate stories andactions, and there can be l itt leunderstanding without them.REFERENCESRiesbeck, C. (1974) Computer Analysis ofNatural Language in Context.
Ph.D.Thesis, Computer Science Dept.
StanfordUniv.
Stanford CA.Schank, R. (1973a) Ident i f icat ion ofConceptual izat ions Underlying NaturalLanguage.
In Schank and Colby (eds.
)Computer Mode~s of  Thought a~ Language.San Francisco: W.H.
Freeman andCompany.121
