AFTERTHOUGHTS ON ANALOGICAL REPRESENTATIONSAaron SlomanCognit ive Studies ProgrammeSchool of Social SciencesUniversity of SussexBrighton, EnglandIn 19711 wrote a paper attempting torelate some old phi losophical  issues aboutrepresentat ion and reasoning to problems inArt i f ic ia l  Intel l igence.
A major theme o fthe paper was the importance ofdist inguishing "analogical" from "Fregean"representat ions.
I stil l think thedist inct ion is important, though perhaps notas important for current problems in A.I.as I used to think.
In this paper I'll tryto explain why.Throughout I'll use the term"representat ion" to refer to a more or lesscomplex structure which has addressable ands ign i f i cant  parts, and which as a whole isused to denote or refer to something else.Thus maps, sentences, and phrases like "Thepaternal grandfather of the present mayor ofBrighton" are representat ions.
There ismuch that's puzzl ing and complex about theconcept of using something to "denote" or"refer to " something else, but for thepresent I'll dodge that issue and rely onour intuit ive understanding thereof.The analogica l /Fregean dist inct ion isnot new: people have been discovering andre-discover ing it for a long time, thoughthey rarely manage to say clearly andpecisely what it is, despite agreement on(most) examples: e.g.
maps, photographs andfamily trees are analogical  representat ionswhereas many sentences, referr ing phrases,and most logical and mathematical  formulaeare Fregean.
I. use the word "Fregean"because it was Gott leb Frege who firstclearly saw that a great deal ofnatura l - language syntax and semantics couldbe analysed in terms of the appl icat ion offunctions to arguments, and that thisanalysis  was far superior to previousattempts to understand the structure ofsentences.
For instance, it enabled him toinvent the logic of quanti f iers and developa notation which provided some of theessent ia l  ideas of Church's lambda-calculus,and thereby some of the goodies inprogramming languages like LISP, ALGOL andPOP-2.
I use the word "Fregean" not only tohonour Frege but also because there is nounambiguous alternative.
The most popularrivals - "symbolic" and "verbal" - are usedin too many different i l l -def ined ways, andin addit ion the first seems too general, thesecond too narrow.
People seem to have alot of trouble seeing clearly what thedist inct ion is, so I'll list and comment onsome of the more common misrepresentat ionsof what I wrote in the 1971 paper.Misrepresentat ions(I) "Analogical  representat ions arecontinuous, Fregean representat ionsdiscrete".
Comment: I gave examples ofdiscrete analogical  representations,e.g.
a list whose elements are ordered164according to the order of what theyrepresent.
(2) "Analogical  representat ions are2-dimensional,  Fregean representat ionsl -dimensional."
Comment: I gave examplesof 1-d analogical  representat ions (e.g.the list example).
Much mathematicalnotation is 2-dimensional  and Fregean(e.g.
integral or summation symbols,the normal representat ion of fractions).
(3) "Analogical  representat ions areisomorphic with what they represent.
"Comment: I discussed 2-d prictures whichare not isomorphic with the 3-d scenesthey represent analogiCal ly.
(4) "Fregean representat ions are symbolic,analogical  representat ionsnon-symbol ic ."
Comment: I find thisnotion unintel l ig ible.
The only senseof "symbolic" which I can understandclearly includes both maps andsentences.
People who arrive at thismis interpretat ion seem to be guilty ofusing "symbolic" in a sloppy,i l l -def ined sense, to contrast with someequal ly i l l -def ined alternative.
Theirexcuse may be that this is f requentlydone (e.g.
by Minsky and Papert intheir Progress Report, and by Minsky inhis more recent paper on frames - 1974.
)(5) "Sentences in a natural  Inaguage are allFregean."
Comment: I pointed out thatsome Engl ish sentences function in apartly analogical  way, as is i l lustratedby the di f ference in meaning of "Sheshot him and kissed him" and "She kissedhim and shot him".
Compare "Tom, Dickand Harry stood in that order".Contrast "She shot him after she kissedhim", where a relat ion is expl ic i t lynamed, and the semantics is Fregean.
(5) "Analogical  representat ions arecomplete: whatever is not represented ina picture or map is thereby representedas not existing.
By contrast Fregeanrepresentat ions may abstract from asmany or as few features of a s i tuat ionas desired: if I say "Tom stood betweenDick and Harry", then nothing is impliedabout whether anyone else was there ornot."
Comment: there may be an importantd ist inct ion between descr ipt ions orrepresentat ions which are complete(relative to the resources of alanguage) and those which areincomplete, but this has nothing to dowith the analogica l /Fregean dist inct ion.E.g.
a map showing only some of thetowns and roads of Br itain is sti l l  ananalogical  representat ion.
We are freeto specify for some pictures or mapsthat they are to be interpreted ascomplete, and for others that theydepict relat ions between some but notall parts of a s i tuat ion or object.S imi lar ly  a LISP llst might containitems represent ing events in the orderin which the events occurred, yet beincomplete in that new items are addedas new knowledge about the t lme-order ofevents is acquired.
(7) "Fregean representat ions have a grammar,analogical  representat ions do not.
"Comment: it is easy to define a grammarfor l ists and trees, f requently used asanalogical  represent ions in computing.IIIIIIIIII,IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOne can also de f ine  a grammar for aclass of line-drawings which includespictures of polyhedral scenes.
(8) "Although digital computers can useFregean representations, only analogcomputers can handle analogicalrepresentations."
Comment: see (I) and(2) above.Explanation of the DistinctionWhat then is the distinction?
BothFregean and analogical representations arecomplex, i.e.
they have parts and relationsbetween parts, and therefore a syntax.
Theymay both be used to represent, refer to, ordenote, things which are complex, i.e.
haveparts and relations between parts.
Thedifference is that in the case of analogicalrepresenations both must be complex (i.e.representation and thing) and there must besome correspondence between their structure,whereas in the case of Fregeanrepresentations there need be nocorresondence.
Roughly, in a complexFregean symbol the structure of the symbolcorresponds not to the structure of thething denoted, but to the structure o f  theprocedure by which that thing is identified,or computed.We can be a bit more precise aboutanalogical representations.
If R is ananalogical representation of T, then (a)there must be parts of R representing partsof T, as dots and squiggles on a maprepresent towns and rivers in a country, orlines and regions in a picture representedges and faces in a scene, and (b) it mustbe possible to specify some sort ofcorrespondence, possibly context-dependent,between properties or relations of parts ofR and properties or relations of parts of T,e.g.
size, shape, direction and distance ofmarks on a map may represent size, shape,direction and distance of towns, anddifferent 2-d relationships of lines meetingat a Junction in a picture may represent(possibly ambiguously) 3-d configurations ofedges and surfaces in a scene.
Therelationship between R and T need not be anisomorphism, for instance when a relationbetween parts of R (such as direction ordistance) represents different relationsbetween parts of T in different contexts.In a perspective drawing there is no simple,context independent, rule for translatingangles between lines into angles betweenedges or surfaces in the scene depicted.
Insuch cases the task of interpreting R, i.e.working out what T is, may involve solvingquite complex problems in order to find aglobally consistent interpretation.
(SeeClowes 1971.)
From (a) and (b) it followsthat in analogical representations,relationships within T do not need to beexplicitly named in R, i.e.
there need notbe a Dart of R corresponding to relationslike "above", "behind", "intersects" in T.The conditions (a) and (b) do not hold forFregean representations.A Fregean formula may be very complex,with many parts and relationships, but noneof the parts or relationships need corresondto parts or relations within the thingdenoted.
The phrase "the city 53 milesnorth of Brighton" contains the symbol"Brighton" as a part, but the thing denoteddoes not contain the town Brighton as apart.
The thing denoted, London, has acomplex structure of its own, which bears norelation whatsoever to the structure of thephrase.
Similarly "the father of Fred","63-24", "(CAR(CDR(CDR(CONS A (CONS B (CONSC NIL))))))" have structures which need bearno relationship to the structures of whatthey denote.
In these, and the examplesdiscussed by Frege, it is possible toanalyse symbolic complexity as arising onlyfrom the application of functions toarguments.
Predicate calculus, apparentlyinvented independently by Frege and C.S.Peirce, is the consequence of this idea.
Afull xplanation would require an expositionof Frege's distinctions between first-leveland higher-level functions: e.g.
heanalysed "all", "exists", and the integralsign used by mathematicians, as names forsecond-level functions which takeflrst-level functions as arguments.Comments o_D_n ~he DistinctionThe analysis proposed by Frege fails toaccount for the full richness and complexityof natural language, Just as it fails toaccount for all the important features ofprogramming languages.
For instance, Fregeapparently required every function to have adefinite "level", determined by the levelsof its arguments.
In languages like POP2and-LISP, where variables need not havetypes, functions like MAPLIST and APPLY takefunctional arguments of any type, andtherefore do not themselves have types.APPLY can even be applied to itself.
InPOP2, APPLY(4,SQRT,APPLy); has the sameresult as SQRT(4); for instance.
Since onecan use English to explain how suchfunctions work, English also cannot berestricted to Fregean semantics.
There aremany other ways in which a Fregean analysisof English breaks down: e.g.
some adverbialphrases don't fit easily, and many linguistswould quarrel wth the analysis of "thecapital of France" as an application of afunction to France, according to thedecomposition "the capital of (France)".
(Iam inclined to think the linguists arewrong, however.
)So I am not claiming that everysymbolism, or representational system, mustbe analysed as being either analogical orFregean.
The distinction is not adichotomy, though there may be somegeneralisation which is.
Wittgensteln, inhis Tr c _ ~  Lo~ico PhilosoDhicus outlinedan all-embraclng "picture" theory of meaningwhich attempted to subsume Fregeanrepresentations under analogical (e.g.
bydescribing a structure such as R(a,b) as onein which the relation between the names "a"and "b" analogically represented therelation between their denotationscorresponding to R. In his later writingshe acknowledged that this attempt toeliminate the distinction was unsuccessful.Conversely, I once explored the possibil ityof interpreting all analogicalrepresentations as be ing  composed of165funct ion-s igns and argument-s igns anddecided that it could not be done, since anessential  feature of Fregean symbolisms isthat argument signs can be replaced byothers without altering anything else, andin general this cannot be done withpictures: replace the representat ion of aman in a picture with the representat ion ofan elephant, and there will often be someother syntactic change, since differentoutl ines leave different things visible.Compare "My uncle is in the garden" and "Myelephant is in the garden".
Here anydifference in the impl icat ions depends noton structural  di f ferences between thesentences but on background premises aboutthe dif ferences between men and elephants.I conc lude  that attempts to obl i terate thedist inct ion cannot succeed, although, asremarked previously, a Fregean formula mayanalogical ly  represent a procedure ofevaluat ion or identif ication.Linguists are not usual ly interested inthe role o f  language in reasoning.
Manyphilosophers, logicians, and mathematic iansare under the mistaken impression that onlyproofs using a Fregean symbol ism can berigorous, or even valid.
The suggest ion isthat the old proofs used in Eucl ideangeometry, which relied on diagrams, were notproofs at all.
Real proofs were found onlywhen axioms and inference rules wereformulated which made the diagramsredundant.
I believe that this denigrat ionof analogical  representat ions is connectedwith some of the worst features ofmathematics teaching, especial ly atUniversit ies.
Excessive concern with toorestr icted a range of analogicalrepresentaions is probably just as bad.~n the 1971 paper I tried to show thatthe concept of a r igorous valid inferencecould be appl ied to problem-solv ing usinganalogical  representat ions just as it isnormal ly appl ied to proofs in a Fregeanlanguage (e.g.
predicate calculus).
Itr ied to show that in some cases (somereaders thought I meant a~ casesl)analogical  representat ions combined rigourand val idity with greater heurist ic powerthan Fregean.
I went on to suggest thatprogram-wri ters  and theoret ic ians in A.I.should pay more attent ion to analogicalrepresentat ions,  and hinted that this wouldlead to programs which could solve problemsmuch more easi ly and intel l igently, sincethe possible manipulat ions of an analogicalrepresentat ion would be much more t ightlyrestr icted by its structure than thepossible manipulat ions of Fregeanrepresentat ions.
E.g.
when relat ions areexpl ic i t ly  named, then any relat ion-name canbe replaced by any other relat ion-name ofthe same syntactic category, whereas whenrelat ions are represented by relat ions (e.g.distance or order in a map) then thestructure of the represent ing medium mayconstrain possible variations, thus useful lyrestr ict ing search space.The dist inct ion between analogical  andFregean representat ions is real andimportant, though not exhaustive (as Ipointed out in the paper).
However, some of166the things said or implied in my paper wereerroneous, and should be withdrawn, which iswhat I am now about to do.Valid Crit ic isms of  mv 1971 RaperFirst of all I suggested that people inA.I.
were not making use of analogicalrepresentat ions (except for the analogicalrelat ion between programs and processes).This was just wrong: any intel l igentprogrammer will use ordering and otherre lat ionships within data-structures tocorrespond to real re lat ionships when thisis useful.
For example, Raphael 's S.I.R.program did this.
So did vision programswhich used graph-l ike data-structures torepresent the topology of pictures.
EvenPLANNER, with its apparent ly Fregeanassertions, and procedure- invoking patterns,can be interpreted as a mechanism in whichproblems about actions or deductions aresolved by s imulat ing these actions ordeductions: the s imulat ion process thenconst itutes an analogical  representat ion.However this was one of the major defects ofPLANNER as a problem solver: often it ismuch more sensible to examine and describepossibi l i tes for action than to execute themor s imulate them, i f  one wishes to solvesome problem about them.
For a tr ivialcase, consider the question "If I start inroom A and then move back and forth betweenroom A and room B, which room will I be inafter exactly 377 moves?"
The best way tosolve this is not to simulate the moves butto form a general isat ion about the effectsof N moves where N is an odd number andwhere N is an even number.
What we need arenot my vague general exhortat ions to makemoreuse  of analogical  representations,  butdetai led analysis of the di f ferences betweenproblems where it is and where it is nothelpful  to solve problems with the aid ofsome kind of partial  simulation.
Thechess-board and domino problem is a goodi l lustrat ion of how an analogicalrepresentat ion can get in the way.
Oftenone does better to manipulate descr ipt ionsof re lat ionships than the re lat ionshipsthemselves.Secondly I wrote as though anyone usinga Fregean language, like predicate calculus,would not be interested in ~ thesets of assert ions descr ibing some world orproblem.
(Minsky and Papert make the samemistake.)
However, intel l igent programmersdo not devise theorem-provers which bl indlystore all axioms in whatever order they areread in, and always have to search the wholelot in order to find assert ions relevant toany part icular  sub-problem or sub-goal.
Ifthe set  of stored assert ions is large itwill obviously pay to have some kind ofindexing scheme, or to store assert ions in anetwork such that each one is associatedwith pointers to others which might possiblybe relevant.
In fact, Bob Kowalski  hasshown that one can int imately combine theindexing system with a "resolut ion"inference system so that making inferencesby resolut ion becomes a process of modi fy ingthe index to the data-base of axioms.However, no resolut ion theorem-prover,  to myknoweldge, gives the user suff ic ient accessIIIIIIIto the data-base handl ing mechanisms so thathe can use a domain-specif ic  indexingscheme.
The same complaint can be madeabout PLANNER and CONNIVER.
Once a set ofFregean formulae is stored in a structurednetwork or graph the organisat ion of thenetwork may itself have many properties of anon-Fregean, analogical  representation.
Atr ivial  example would be the storage of aset of assert ions of the formR(a,b) ,R(b,c) ,R(c ,d) ,R(d,e) ,R(a,d)where R is a transit ive asymmetric rela.tion(e.g.
"taller than" or "north of").
Ifeach of the above assert ions is stored inassociat ion with pointers to otherassert ions mentioning the same individuals,then the result ing structure can be used asanana log ica l  representat ion of the order ofthe individuals, just as storing the namesin a list like (A B C D E) can.
The fullequivalence could be obtained only ifredundant assert ieons were pointed to in adifferent way, or perhaps removed, e.g.R(a,d).
This might not be useful for allproblem-domains (e.g.
it could be lessuseful where R defines only a partialordering).Embedding one's analogicalrepresentat ions in a Fregean symbol ism llkethis makes it easier to switch f lexiblybetween different representat ional  systemsaccording to the needs of the problem.
Ofcourse, the mere presence in a computer of adata-structure which w__ee can describe as ananalogical  representat ion is not enough: theprogram must embody procedures which makeuse of the analogical  features of therepresentation.
In the case of a predicatecalculus theorem-prover,  this means thatthere must be ways of control l ing the orderin which assert ions or inference steps aretried, so as to correspond to the structureof the problem.
E.g.
if you wish to knowwhether g comes between ~ and g in the orderdefined by ~, work through the set ofassert ions from ~ (or from g) in onedirect ion at a time.
A more complexi l lustrat ion of all these points can beconstructed by devising a scheme for storingpredicate calculus assert ions about familyrelat ionships with links which enable thedata-base to be used like the usual kind offamily tree, instead of an arbitrar i lyordered list of facts.
So questions like"Who were all X's cousins?"
or "Was X thegrandfather of Y?"
can be answered withlittle or no searching, using the analogicalpropert ies of the data-base (i.e.
relat ionsrepresent relations).More generally, it is possible (andmaybe even fruitful) to think of allcomputat ion as being concerned with updatingand accessing information expl ic i t ly orimpl ic i t ly  stored in a data base.
The codefor ar i thmetical  functions impl ic i t lyrepresents, in a l imited space, answers to apotent ia l ly  inf inite set of problems, forexample.
An important aspect of theintel l igence of programmers, and programs,is the construction, manipulat ion, and useof indexes, so as to find relevant answersto quest ions quickly.
However, an index isjust as much a store of information asanything else, and problems of arbitrarycomplexity may be involved in f inding arelevant index entry.
(e.g.
months ofarcheological  research may be needed inorder to decide which entry in a l ibrary ormuseum catalogue to fol low up.)
So thedist inct ion between index and data-basedisappears: any item or procedure may play arole in tracking down some otherinformation.
The data-base is its ownindex.From this viewpoint one can assess therole of analogical  representat ions asindexes, and note that relat ions of orderingand nearness, and dist inct ive substructureswithin analogical  representat ions may defineimportant access routes by which mutual lyrelevant items of information may be linked.But, as Pat Hayes has pointed out, itdoesn't matter how this is implemented solong as it works.
Thus, storing visualinput in a 2-d array enables theneighbourhood relat ionships between pairs ofnumbers (array subscripts) to be used as anana log ica l  representat ion of neighbourhoodrelat ionships within the original  input andto some extent within the scene represented.And one can make good use of this analogicalrepresentat ion even if the array is storedas a set of Fregean assert ions about whatvalue is located at co-ordinates n and m forall relevant integers n and m, prvided thereis a good index to these assertions.So I should have acknowledged that a l lthe benefits of analogical  representat ionscan be gotten from Fregean representations,suitably organised and interpreted.~owever, this does not imply ~hat analogicalrepresentat ions ar___ge not needed, only thatthey ~an s__ometimes be implemented ~singFregean ones, Similarly, it could beargued, at a sti l l  lower level, all Fregeanformal isms used in a computer are ult imatelyrepresented analogical ly,  even in a digitalcomputer.
But the matter is of l ittleimportance.F inal ly I wrote as if it was going tobe fair ly stra ightforward to get programs todo things in the ways which people findeasy.
E.g.
people often find it mucheasier to solve problems when they can see apicture of the ppoblem-s i tuat ion than whenthey are presented only with a set ofassert ions about it.
However, doing thisrequires very complex visual abil it ies,which, although they feel easy to use, areprobably the result of a very long and hardlearning process extending back overmil l ions of years of evolut ion(species- learning) and several years ofindividual  learning.
I do not bel ieveranyone has very good ideas yet on how togive a computer the same kind ofsophist icated grasp of two-dimensionalstructure as we use when we look atpictures, maps, mazes, diagrams, etc.
Itseems to be a mixture of a large store ofgeneral pr inciples about topology andgeometry, intr icately combined with a largestore of specif ic knowledge about part icularshapes, shape-classes, and possible patternsof change (translation, rotation,stretching, f itt ing together,  going-through!
167apertures, etc.
).And somehow all this knowledge isindexed for rapid access when relevant,though by no means infallibly indexed.
I amsure that many of the problems in explaininghow this is possible are common to bothvision and natural language processing.
(The links are especially clear in the caseof reading poor handwriting.
)Thus my suggestion that A.I.
workersinterested in problem solving should designmachines to solve problems by looking atdiagrams, maps or other spatial structuresmay be many years premature.
Even the bestvision programs presently recognise and useonly very few aspects of the 2-dimensionalstructure of the pictures (or TV-inputs)wh ichthey  attempt to interpret.The upshot of all this is that I nowrealise that although it may be interestingand important from a philosophical orpsychological standpoint to analyse theanalogical/Fregean distinction, and toexplore the relative merits of the two sortsof representations, such theoreticaldiscussions don't necessarily help anyoneengaged in the task of designing intelligentprograms.
The really hard work is findingout what factual and procedural knowledge isrequired for intelligent performance in eachdomain.
The most one can achieve by thephilosophical analysis is the removal ofprejudices.
But was anyone in A.I.
everreally prejudiced against analogicalrepresentations, properly defined?BibliographyClowes, M.B.
(1971) "On seeing things", inArtificial Iqtelligenog, Vol.
2, 1971.Frege, G. (1952) Philosophical Writings(translated by P. Geach M.  Black),Blackwell, Oxford.Hayes, P.J.
(1974) "Some Problems andnon-problems in representation theory",Proceedings A~SB Summer Conference,Sussex University.Kowalski, R. (1974) "A proof procedureusing connections graphs".
Memo No.74,Department of Computational Logic,Edinburgh University.Minsky, M. _ Papert, S. (1972) ProgressReport o_3 Artificial Intelligence, A.I.Memo 252, MIT Artificial IntelligenceLaboratory.Minsky, M. (1974) i F r~ewor~ forReor~sentiqg Knowledge, A.I.
Memo 306,MIT Artifical Intell igence Laboratory.Sloman, A.
(1971) "Interactions betweenphilosophy and A.I.
- the role ofintuition and non-logical reasoning inintelligence".
Proceedings 2qd IJCAI,London, reprinted in ArtificialIntelligeqce, vol.
2, 1971.168IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIi
