CREATIVITY IN VERBALIZATION ASEVIDENCE FOR ANALOGIC KNOWLEDGEWallace L. ChafeDepartment of L inguist icsUnivers i ty of Cal i forniaBerkeley CA 90406An issue which I take to be of greatinterest at the present time is whetherhuman knowledge can be adequatelyrepresented in terms of a network ofproposit ions.
The alternat ive is thatknowledge has a s ignif icant analogcomponent, which I understand to mean thatcontinuous di f ferences in the real world ares tored  in a continuous mentalrepresentation.
Three views are possible.A strict proposit ional ist  would say that aproposit ional  network is adequate to accountfor everything in memory.
A strictanalogist  would claim that everything isstored analogical ly.
But I suppose thatmany people are wi l l ing to admit somecombinat ion of these two views, and al lowthat the mind has the capacity for bothkinds of knowledge.Evidence for analogic storage is inpart introspective.
Many people seem to beable to observe themselves using mentalimagery for thinking about the wor ld ,  andeven for solving logical problems.
Althoughit is easy to demonstrate that mental imagesare not "pictures" in any l iteral sense,nevertheless they do seem to retain some ofthe analogic qual ity of reality.
Thosewhose thinking has a strong imaglnalcomponent are predisposed to bel ieve thatboth language and proposit ions arederivative, in the sense that they are waysof talking about or descr ibing somethingmore basic which shows up in consciousnessin the form of imagery.
But there is acounterargument which says that the basicprocesses of the mind take place outside ofconsciousness, and that we deceive ourselvesif we think we can observe cognit iveprocesses directly.
Furthermore, it hasbeen noted that imagery does not al low us toindiv iduate objects and events that were notindiv iduated when first perceived.
Thefamil iar demonstrat ion of the power  ofimagery in which you are asked how manywindows are in your l iving room or the like,and then you seem to go through a process ofimaging the room and counting the windows,can in fact be used to show how muchpreprocess ing has taken place.
For one isevident ly able to count in one's mind onlythose objects which have already beenattended to and individuated, just as onemight count the nodes in a proposit ionalnetwork.
Images don't seem to al low forfurther individuation,  but are dependent onwhatever indiv iduat ing took place at thetime of perception.But what needs to be done is to sortout those interpret ive processes which musttake place during perception, if they are totake place at all, and those which can stil lbe performed on mater ia l  stored in memory.If there are processes of the latter kind,and if they depend on analogic propert ies of144the stored material, then the analogic viewwill have strong support.
Roger Shepard andhis coworkers, for example, seem to havedemonstrated that such processes do exist inpeople's abi l i ty to cont inuously rotatemental objects.
I want to suggest that theway people talk about things providesanother demonstrat ion of this kind.In my earl ier paper I suggested thatverbal izat ion -- the set of processes bywhich a speaker turns stored experience intowords -- requires that choices be made atvar ious points.
These choices, I suggested,are of three kinds.
I cal led themschematiz ing, framing, and categoriz ing.What is of interest here is that all threeof these processes are interpret ive in justthe sense we are looking for.
All of themrequire the speaker to interpret storedmaterial,  related to part icular events andobjects, as instances of stored prototypes.All of these processes may take place at thetime of perception, but they do not have to.In fact, it is clear both from hesitat ionsin speech and from the frequency with whichpeople use dif ferent verbal izat ions for thesame mater ia l  at dif ferent times that manyof these choices are made only while thematerial  is being verbal ized.Categor izat ion is the clearest example,if only because the data are more extensive.It has been known for a long time that itemsstored in memory differ in their degree of"codabi l i ty":  the degree to which they canreadi ly be categorized.
Highly codableitems tend to be named with short words, tobe named with single words rather thanphrases, to be named without hesitat ion, tobe given the same names by dif ferent people,and to be named the same way by the sameperson on dif ferent occasions.
Items of lowcodabi l i ty  show the opposite symptoms.
Itis these latter items that are of interesthere.Imagine a person who has observed ascene and indiv iduated events and objectswithin it.
Certain of these indlv iduatedevents and objects are l ikely to be highlycodable, and undoubtedly  the observer willhave categor ized them immediately as part ofhis percept ion of the scene.
There might,for example, be a typical table which heimmediately categor izes as a table.
On theother hand, there might also be objects andevents which he has indiv iduated but notcategorized, or categor ized only in a highlygeneral way (as a piece of furniture, forexample).
He wil l  have stored his knowledgeof this object with enough analogicinformat ion included to enable him to searchfor an appropr iate categor izat ion at a latertime when he refers to that knowledge inspeaking.
At that time he wil l  arr ive at apoint in the verbal izat ion where he real izesthe necessi ty of expressing his knowledge ofthe object in words.
Typical ly at thatpoint he wil l  hesitate so that he cancompare his mental representat ion of theobject with his mental representat ion ofavai lable category prototypes, wil l  decideon the best match, wil l  perhaps addmodif iers to improve the match, and willf inal ly u t te r  something llke "aIIIIIIIIII!!!!!
!lozenge-shaped green marble coffee table".This choice, made in the course of speaking,may or may not be remembered on a subsequentoccasion when he has to verbal ize the sameknowledge again.
At that time he may haveto think about how to categorize it all overagain, and may very well choose differently.It is important that categor izat ion isoften a more-or- less  affair, not a matter ofyes-or-no.
The choice seems to be made onthe basis of comparing the "experient.ialcontent" associated with the indiv iduateditem with the exper ient ia l  contentassociated with the category.
The matchbetween the two takes place on a cont inuousscale.
If both individual  items andcategories have associated with them acontent which al lows such cont inuouscomparisons to be made, the best conclusionseems to be that the content itself  hasanalogic properties.I wil l  just mention here that the twoother kinds of choices which may be madeduring verbal izat ion -- the choices of whatI have cal led frames and schemata -- seem tolead to the same conclusion.
While, forexample, a part icular  chunk of exper iencemay be interpreted as an instance of aspecif ic schema while it is beingexperienced, the schemat izat ion process issomething that can be appl ied while one istalking.
I take this to be evidence thatpeople must be able to store enough analogicinformat ion about an exper ience that theyare able to interpret it later as aninstance of some schema.
The same can besaid for framing.
A part icular  event mightbe framed on one occasion as "Jim f inal lyplanted the seeds" and on a later occasionas "Our garden f inal ly got started", wherethe objects and their roles are quitedifferent.
The speaker's memory for thisevent was f lexible enough to al low for thesetwo interpretat ions.In short, a l though some interpret iveprocesses such as indiv iduat ion seem to beconf ined to the perceptual  stage ofinformat ion processing, others such ascategor izat ion,  framing, and schemat izat ionare appl ied for the first time, in somecases at least, whi le a person isverbal iz ing knowledge recal led from memory.In order for this to take place it wouldseem that some nonpropos i t ionalrepresentat ion of knowledge must exist.145
