BRIDGING'Herbert H. ClarkStanford UniversityNixon, not long before he was deposed,was quoted as saying at a news conference,"I am not a crook."
We all saw immediatelythat Nixon shouldn't have said what he said.He wanted to assure everyone that he was anhonest man, but the wording he used was todeny that he was a crook.
Why should hedeny that?
He must have believed that hisaudience was entertaining the possibi l i tythat he was a crook, and he was trying todisabuse them of this belief.
But in sodoing, he  was tac i t l y  acknowledging thatpeop lewere  entertaining th i s  possibi l ity,and this was something he had neveracknowledged before in public.
Here, then,was a public admission that he was introuble, and this s ignaled a change in hispublic posture.
My inferences about Nixon'subterance stopped about there, but I am surethat the knowledgeable White House presscorps went on drawing further inferences.In any event we all took this utterance along way.This is an example par excel lence of abasic problem for theories of understandingnatural language: How do l isteners drawinferences from what they hear, whatdirection do they take their inferences, andwhen do they stop?
In this part icularexample, at least most l isteners began,tacitly, d rawing  the same llne ofinferences, but at a certain point, thelines diverged and went on to many differentstopping points.
But is this descr ipt iongeneral?
Could l isteners go on drawinginferences ad inf initum?
And ult imately, isdrawing inferences as a part ofcomprehension a describable process, onewith specif iable constraints?In this brief paper I would llke todiscuss a certain class of inferences incomprehension that may provide some generallessons about the problem of drawinginferences.
The inferences I wil l  discussare ones the speaker intends the l istener todraw as an integral part of the message, andso they are a rather special type.Fol lowing Grice's (1967) terminology, I wil lrefer to them as implieatures, since theyhave all the character ist ics of otherimplicatures.
I wil l  draw three lessonsabout these implicatures.
One: Impl icaturesof this kind or iginate in an implicitcontract, of quite a specif ic sort, that thespeaker and l istener have agreed upon aboutthe way they are  to converse with eachother.
TWO: These implicatures, thoughconveyed by language and a necessary part ofthe intended message, draw on one'sknowledge of natural objects and events thatgoes beyond one's knowledge of languageitself.
Three: These impl icatures are notindeterminate in length, but have awel l -def ined stopping rule.Giveq-New Co~tr~ot169The impl icatures I am concerned withare a consequence of a speaker- l isteneragreement Susan Havi land and I have calledthe Given-New Contract (Clark and Haviland,1974, in press; Havi land and Clark, 1974).Engl ish assert ions draw a dist inct ionbetween two kinds of information theyconvey, a dist inct ion carr ied by the syntaxand intonation alone.
The first kind ofinformation has been cal led Giveninformation, since it is convent ional lyrequired to convey information the l isteneralready knows; and the second kind has beencal led New information, since it isconvent ional ly  required to conveyinformation that the l istener doesn't yetknow but that the speaker would like to getacross.
The point is, the Given-Newdist inct ion is a syntactic one, identi f iablefor sentences in isolation, and yet itserves a pragmatic function, that ofconveying two types of information as far asthe l istener is concerned.
For thisd ist inct ion to be useful as a communcativedevice, therefore, the speaker and l istenermust agree to use it in the convent ionalway.
The speaker must agree to try toconstruct his utterances so that the Giveninformation contains information he believesthe l istener already knows and so that theNew information contains information hebelieves the l istener doesn't yet know.
Thelistener, for his part, agrees to interpreteach utterance on the assumption that thespeaker is trying to do this.Consider the sentence I t  was M~rY who~e~t.
Syntactical ly,  it is Given thatsomeone left, that is, X left, and it is Newthat that someone was Mary, that is, X =Mary.
To deal with this sentence, thel istener is assumed to use the fol lowingstrategy.
(I) He identi f ies the Given andthe New.
(2) He real izes he is expected toknow already about a unique event of someoneleaving, and so he searches back in memoryfor Just such an event.
When he finds it,say E~I left ("some entity labeled E31left"), he calls this the Antecedent.
(3)Since the l istener assumes that X left wasmeant to refer to the Antecedent E~I left,he then replaces ~ in ~ ~ Mary by E31 toform the new proposit ion E31 ~ Mary.
Thishe places in memory as what the speakermeant to assert in his utterance.In the simplest case, the strategy Justgiven wil l  work without problems.
Considersequence I:I. John saw someone leave the partyearly.
It was Mary who left.
To s impl i fythings, imagine that the l istener hearingthe second sentence has in episodic memoryonly the information conveyed by the first.In applying his strategy to the secondsentence, the l istener will search for anAntecedent for X left, find an event ofsomeone leaving in memory from the firstsentence, and then integrate the Newinformation into memory as he should.In the more typical  case, however, theIstener will fall at Step 2 of the strategy-- he won't find such an Antecedent direct lyin memory.
When this happens, he is forcedto construct an Antecedent, by a series ofinferences, from something he already knows.Consider sequence 2:2.
In the group there was one personmissing.
It was Mary who left.
In thissequence the first sentence doesn't mentionanyone s leaving, so there is no directAntecedent for the Given information X leftof the second sentence.
The l istener musttherefore bridge the gap from what he knowsto the intended Antecedent.
He might notethat it would fol low that one person in thegroup would be missing if that person hadleft.
It must be that the speaker wasreferr ing to that person by the Giveninformation X l~ft and that the l istener wassupposed to f igure this out by drawing thisinference.
In short, the l istener assumesthe speaker meant to convey two things: (I)the impl icature The Q~e person was missin~because that person left, and (2) the latterclause contains the intended Antecedent ofthe Given information in the second sentencel~ f t .In its most general form, then, theGiven-New Contract goes something llke this:Given-New Contract: The speaker agreesto try to construct the Given andNew information of each utterance incontext (a) so that the l istener isable to compute from memory theunique Antecedent that was intendedfor the Given information, and (b).so that he will not already have theNew information attached to theAntecedent.The l istener in turn knows, then, that thespeaker expects him to have the knowledgeand mental wherewithal  to compute theintended Antecedent in that context, and sofor him it becomes a matter of solving aproblem.
What bridge can he construct (I)that the speaker could plausibly haveexpected him to be able to construct and (2)that the speaker could plausibly haveintended?
The first part makes the l istenerassess pr incipal ly  what facts he knows andthe second what impl lcatures he couldplausibly draw.Br idging -- the construct ion of theseimpl icatures -- is an obl igatory part of theprocess of comprehension.
The l istenertakes it as a necessary part ofunderstanding an utterance in context thathe be able to identi fy the intendedreferents (in memory) for all referr ingexpressions.
All referr ing expressions areGiven information, and so the l istener feelsit necessary to succeed in applying thestrategy outl ined above, since it identi f iesthe intended referents.
In most instances,the success of this strategy requires thel istener to bridge, to construct certainimpl icatures, and so he takes theseimpl icatures too as a necessary part ofcomprehension.
In short, he considersimpl icatures to be intrinsic to the intendedmessage, since without them the utterancecould not refer.17oVariet ies of  Imp~icatureBridging from previous knowledge to theintended Antecedent can take many forms.
Iwill here give a brief taxonomy of bridges Ihave found in natural ly occurr ing discourse.As before I will i l lustrate the bridges withtwo sentence sequences in which the firstconst itutes the entire episodic knowledgeavai lable for br idging to the second.
WhatI say here, however, is meant to apply justas much to episodic information derived fromnon- l lnguist lc  sources; the two-sentencesequences are just an exposit ional  gimmick.One more caveat.
As with any taxonomy, thisone is hardly complete.
Indeed, it cannotbe unti l  one has a theory to account for thetaxonomy itself.Dire~t re~erence.
Given informationoften makes direct reference to an object,event, or state Just mentioned.
Thesealways force an impl icature of some sort,even though it may be tr ivial ly simple.This class of br idging is well known:Identity:I. I met a man yesterday.
The mantold me a story.2.
I ran two miles the othe# day.The run did me good.3.
Her house was large.
The sizesurpr ised me.Pronominal i~at ion:4.
I met a man yesterday.
He toldme a story.5.
I ran two miles the other day.It did me good.6.
Her house was large.
Thatsurpr ised me.Epithets:7.
I met a man yesterday.
Thebastard stole all my money.8.
I ran two miles the other day,The whole stupid business bored me.9.
Her house was large.
Theimmensity made me Jealous.The impl icature for these directre ferences  is straightforward.
For theident i ty in I, the impl icature isapproximately  this:I ?
.
The Antecedent for the man isthe entity referred to by "a man".This implicature, though obvious, must bedrawn for the second sentence in I to becomplete; conceivably, ~_g man could havereferred to some other object, and so thel istener is making a leap -- perhaps only ami l l imeter  leap -- in drawing thisimpl icature.
The same impl icatures arise in2 and 3.
As for the pronominal lzat ion in 4,the pr inciple is the same, but the pronoun(he) uses only a subset of the propert iesthat character ize the previously ment ionedman.
Indeed, there is a cont inuum ofpronominal izat ion,  as for the noun phrase anelderly ~ :  ~he el der~y ~leman,the elder ly man, ~he ~ ,  the ~,  theoldster, the adult, the oerson, and he.
TheIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIII"pronouns" here range from full to sparsespecif ication, but otherwise work like I andI".
The epithets, on the other hand, addinformation about the referent, as in theimpl icature for 7:7".
The antecedent for the bastardis the entity referred to by "aman"; that entity is also a bastard.Epithets are surpr is ingly restr icted inproductivity, for not Just anything will do,Replace the bastard in 7 by the rancher, oreven by the robber, and the bridging doesn'tgo through; the cancher and robber seem ,torefer to someone other than the man.One can also make direct reference toone or more members of a set, as in theseexamples:Set membership:10.
I met two people yesteday.
Thewoman told me a story.11.
I met two doctors yesterday.The tall one told me a story.12.
I swung three times.
The firstswing missed by a mile.Here the Given informaion has an Antecedentthat must be picked out uniquely from apreviously mentioned set, and to pick itout, one must draw an impl ieature withseveral parts.
For 10, the impl icature isapproximately this:10".
One of the entit ies referred toby "two people" is a woman and theother is not; this woman is theAntecedent of the woman.The l istener of 10 infers that the otherperson is not a woman since that is the onlyway the speaker could have picked out "thewoman" uniquely.
There are similarimpl icatures for 11 and 12.Indirect reference by association.Given information often has as itsAntecedent some piece of information notdirectly mentioned, but closely associatedwith the object, event, or s i tuat ionmentioned (see Chafe, 1972).
These"associated" pieces of information vary intheir predictabi l i ty  from the object, event,or s ituation mentioned -- from absolutelynecessary to quite unnecessary -- a l though Iwil l  list only three levels:Necessary Darts:13.
I looked into the room.
Thecei l ing was very high.14.
I hit a home run.
The swing hadbeen a good one.15.
I looked into the room.
Thesize was overwhelming.In 13, since all rooms have ceil ings, andonly one cei l ing each, the cei l ing can bedefinite with the fol lowing implicature:13".
The room mentioned has aceil ing; that cei l ing is theAntecedent of the ceil ing.Next consider associated parts that areonly probable:171Probable parts:16.
I walked into the room.
Thewindows looked out to the bay.17.
I went shopping yesterday.
Thewalk did me good.18.
I left at 8 p.m.
The darknessmade me jumpy.There is no guarantee that the room haswindows, that going shopping means walking,or that it is dark at 8 p.m., but these areall probable or at least reasonable.
Theimpl icature of 16 is simply this:16".
The room mentioned has windows;they are the Antecedent for thewindows,There are ,  however, associated partsthat one would normal ly not think of and areonly induced by the need for an Antecedent:Inducible p~rts:19.
I walked into the room.
Thechandel iers sparkled brightly.20.
I went shopping yesterday.
Theclimb did me good.21.
I left at 8 p.m.
The haste wasnecessary given the circumstances.Here we come to infer that the room hadchandeliers, that going shopping includedsome climbing, and that the departure at 8p.m.
was hasty, but these were cer ta in lynot necessary parts of these objects,events, or states.
For 19, the impl icaturewould be this:19".
The room mentioned hadchandel iers; they are the Antecedentfor the ~ .Here, then is a clear case in which thesearch for an Antecedent induced theproposit ion that a part icular part must bepresent.
In normal comprehension, afterreading ~ walke~ into ~he room, we wouldn'tspontaneously think of a chandel ier in theroom.
The first part of 19" clearly onlyarises because of the second sentence in 19.On the other hand, notice that 19" is animpl icature of precisely the same form as16".
It is Just that the first half of theimpl icature in 19" cannot be assumed eitherautomat ica l ly  or even probably.Indirect  re ference by character izat ion"Often the Given information character izes arole that something impl ic i t ly  plays ~ in anevent or c ircumstance mentioned before, andthese have a tremendous variety.
Firstthere are the necessary roles:e e s ~  roles:20.
John was murdered yesterday.The murderer  got awayI ~ " 21. went shopping yesterday.
Thetime I started was 3 p.m.22.
I trucked the goods to New York.The truck was full.The impl icature for these is uncomplicated,as i l lustrated for 20:20".
Some one person performedJohn's murder; that person is theAntecedent for the murderer.The first sentence in 20 does not claim thatthere was only one murderer, but the secondsentence forces this implicature.Similarly, the verb trucked in 22 doesn'tsay there is only one truck, but the secondsentence, as part of its implicature, forcesthis to be the case.Then come the str ict ly optional roles:Optional rolgs:23.
John died yesterday.
Themurderer got away.24.
John was murdered yesterday.The knife lay nearby.25.
John went walking at noon.
Thepark was beautiful.In 23, the impl icature is something likethis:23".
Some one person caused John todie; that one person is theAntecedent of the murderer.In 24, the impl icature is that John wasstabbed to death with a knife, theinstrument referred to by the knife, and in25 the impl icature is that where Jo~n wentwalking was in a park, the place referred toby the park.These two categories -- necessary andoptional roles -- cover a lot of ground.Most noun phrases, for example, arecharacter iz ing,  in that they contain as Raftof their speci f icat ion how they relate toother events.
I have given unadorned nounphrases here, but of course they can becomequite elaborate.
The murderer  could havebeen the person whQ murdered John; theknife, which is impl ic i t ly  defined as atool, could have been t~e knife with whichit was do~e; and so on.
Engl ish contains arange of cleft and pseudo-cleft  sentencesthat often fill Just this purpose, as in Theone that murdered John ?o~ away, and It wasthat man who murdered John.
Adject ives cancarry out this character iz ing funcion too,as in The gqi l tv party g_q~ away.
What theseadject ives (e.g.
~uiltv), relative clauses(e.g.
th~$ murdered John), and derivednouns (e.g.
the murderer) do is pick outthe role the intended Antecedent plays inthe previously named events.It is not easy to separate "parts" from"roles" in every instance.
For example, theknife in 24 is conceived of not as a part ofthe action of murdering, as, say, "stabbing"would be, but rather as a role in theaction, as an instrument.
I have consideredthe word knife to have implicit within itthe notion that it is an instrument, so itis a character iz ing noun, like murderer,  nots imply a name of a non-funct ional  class l lkeman.
Ult imately, however, this d ist inct ionmay be impossible to maintain.Reasons.
causesL conseouences.
~q~concurrences.
The Antecedent to the Giveninformation of a sentence is often an eventand not an object, and then it playsdifferent types of rols with respect toprevious events.
Instead of being agents,objects, or instruments character ized withrespect to previously mentioned events, this172class of Antecedents gives reasons for,causes of, consequents to, or concurrencesof previously ment ioned events or states.The first class are reasons:Reasons:26.
John fell, what he wanted to dowas scare Mary.27.
John came to the party.
The onehe expected to meet  was Mary.28.
John had a suit on.
It was Janehe hoped to impress.In each case the Antecedent of the Giveninformation in the second sentence iscontained in a reason for the first event.So the impl icature for 26 is something likethis:26".
John fell for the reason thathe wanted to do something; thatsomething is the Antecedent to whathe wanted t_go do.Reasons ?
always answer the question "whatfor?"
and the Antecedents in 26 through 28all make use of this kind of reason tobridge from the first sentence's event orstate.Unl ike reasons, causes answer thequest ion "How come?"C~qses:29.
John fell.
What he did was tripon a rock.30.
John came to the party.
The onewho invited him was Mary.31.
John had a suit on.
It was Janewho told him to wear it.The impl icature in 29 goes something likethis:29".
John fell because he didsomething; that something is theAntecedent for what he  dld.This type of impl icature works for 30 and 31as well.
In each case we infer a causalre lat ion between the event presupposed bythe Given informat ion of the second sentenceand the event ment ioned in the firstsentence.Then there are consequences:Conseouences:32.
John fell.
What he did wasbreak his arm.33.
John came to the party early.The one he saw first was Mary.34.
John met Sally.
What he did wastell her about Bill.
'The approximate impl icature for 32 is asfollows:32".
John did something because hefell; that something is theAntecedent to what he did.The sequences in 33 and 34 have simi larimpl icatures, ones that also depend on theAntecedent 's  being taken as the consequenceof the event  ment ioned in the firstI1IiiIiiil!IIi|I|II!iiisentence.Last of all are the concurrences:ConcurreDces:33.
John is a Republ ican.
Mary isslightly daft too.34.
John is a Republican.
Maryisn't so smart either.35.
Alex went to a party last night.He's going to get drunk againtonight.For 33 the implicature is approximately this(see Lakoff, 1971):33".
All Republicans are slightlydaft; therefore, John is slightlydaft, which is the Antecedent to theGiven information someone other thanMary is slightly daft.In all three of these sequences, thelistener is expected to draw the implicaturethat being in one state, or doing one event,necessarily entails the concurrence ofanother state, or event.These are four general ways, then, inwh ich  the listener can bridge from an eventor state mentioned in the first sentence toan Antecedent in the second.
These bridgingrelations turn out to be very common~especially in narratives.
The most common,perhaps, is the consequence, which pops upbetween one sentence and the next every t imechronological order is conveyed.
The Giveninformation of the second sentence is takenas a consequence to the event mentioned inthe first.Det~rmlnacv in~/ .
l~In principle, bridges need.
not bedeteminate.
One could, if one had the timeand inclination, build an infinitely longbridge, or sequence of assumptions, to linkone event to the Antecedent of the next.
In35, for example# we assumedthat  every timeAlex goes to a party he gets drunk.
But wecould have assumed instead that every timehe goes to a party he meets women, and  ,allwomen speak in high voices, and high voicesalways remind him of his mother, andthinking about hhs mother always makes himangry, and whenever he gets angry, he getsdrunk, It takes very llttle imagination toadd span after span to a bridge of thistype.Yet in a natural discourse, bridges arealways determinate.
Indeed, I suggest thatthey have a stopping rule that goessomething llke this: Build the shortestpossible bridge that is consistent with theGiven-New Contract.
The listener assumes,based on this contract, that the speakerintended him to be able to compute a uniquebridge from his previous knowledge to theintended antecedent of the present Giveninformation.
If the speaker was certainthat the listener could do this, he musthave intended the listener to take theshortest possible bridge consistent withprevious knowledge, for that would make thebridge unique, as required.
So in 35 thelistener assumes the speaker intended him toinfer no more than that every time Alex goes173to a party he gets drunk, for thisimplicature makes the fewest assumptions yetis consistent with previous knowledge ofparties; dringking, and even Alex.
Inshort, the listener takes as the intendedimplicature the one that requires the fewestassumptions, yet whose assmptions are allplausible given the listener's knowledge ofthe speaker, the situation, and facts aboutthe world.The implicatures I have discussed herediffer from the inferences we drew fromN!xon's "I am not a crook" in one importantway .
The implicatures I took up wereintended bythe  speaker to be constructed bythe l i s tener ,  whereas the inferences fromNixon's blunder were not.
With theimplicatures, as with every other intendedmeaning, the speaker had a unique bridge inmind, and so the listener had somethingunique to try to figure out.
But forNixon's bobble, after the first unique andlegitimate inference -- denials presupposethat the audience does or could believe whatiS being denied -- the inferences werecompletely unauthorized by the speaker.
Sobridging is determinate with a definitestopping rule, whereas Unauthorizedinferences typically are not.This brings US, finally, to the issueof forward vs. backward inferences.
Whenwe hear the phrase the room in 19, we maybegin imagining all sorts of things aboutthis room, some necessary, but many othersoptional.
A l l  but the necessary lnferenceshere, of course, are unauthorized.
.
These"forward" inferences differ radically fromthe "backward" inferences forced by thephrase the f ~  in 19, for the speakerintended the listener to infer that the roomhad a chandelier.
Both types of inferencesoccur, I'm sure, but only the latter typeare fully determinate, I suggest that wemight do well to study the determinateInferences first, for'they may well give usa clue as to what sorts of unauthorizedInferences would be likely to be drawn forthe typical utterance.REFERENCESChafe, W. D iscourse structure and humanknowledge.
In J.B. Carroll and R.O.Freedle (eds.
), LanRua~e ComDrehenslonand the ~ of Knowledg@.Washington: Winston and Sons, 1972.Clark, H.H., and Haviland, S.E.Psychological processes as llnguisticexplanation.
In D. Cohen (ed.
),~ Phenomena.Washington: Hemisphere Publishing Corp.,1974.Clark, H.H.
and Haviland, S.E.Comprehension and the Given-NewContract.
In R. Freedle (ed.
)Discourse ~ and ~/ I~U~.Hillslde NJ: Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates, in press.Haviland, S.E.
and Clark, H.H.
What's new?Acquiring new information as a processin comprehension.
Journal of VerbalLearning and Verbal Behavior, 1974, I~,512-521.Grice, H.P.
Logic and conversation.William James Lectures, HarvardUniversity, 1967.
In P. Cole and J.L.Morgan (eds.
), Studies in SYntax, VolumeIII.
New York: Seminar Press, 1975.Lakoff, G. The role of deduction ingrammar.
In C.J.
Fillmore and D.T.Langendoen (eds.
), Studies 'inLinguistics Semantics.
New York: Holt,Rinehart and Winston, 1971.174
