DOES A STORY UNDERSTANDERNEED A POINT OF VIEW?Robert P. AbelsonYale UniversityAt the Carbonell Memorial Conference in1974, there was a good deal of informaldiscussion of the use by people of analoguesimulations in knowledge retrieval orquestion-answering.
We asked each otherquestions like, "How many traffic lights arethere along your usual route from therailroad station to your house?"
Or, "Can asalt shaker be used as a stool?".
Theformer type of question usually gives riseto introspective reports of a mentalsimulation of the traversal of the requestedroute, replete with visual imagery.
Thelatter type of question may or may not giverise to a mental simulation.
Some peoplereport knowing propositlonally that a saltshaker cannot be used as a stool because itssize is insufficient.
Others reportmentally playing through the motor sequenceof sitting on a salt shaker, whence theyrudely discover the negative answer.People with different cognitive stylescan become quite exercised over whether thepropositional or simulational account is the"correct" psychological description of thistype of question-answering.
People whoexperience difficulty constructing visual ormotor images are prone to be strongpropositionalists (e.g., Pylyshyn, 1973).
Ihad a recent argument on this issue with awell-known psychologist not given to visualimagery.
"Can a salt shaker be a stool?
", Iasked her.
"No," she said immediately,"Obviously not.
I t 's  the wrong size.
Iknew that right away because the features ofa salt shaker don't match the crlticlalfeatures of a stool.
I didn't need anyvisual imagery".I then found a subtler example to testher: "Can a shoe be a hammer?".
Shehesitated.
Absent-mindedly making arepeated hammering motion up and down withher hand, as though grasping a hypotheticalshoe, she answered, "Well, yes."
I pouncedat her gesture.
"Aha!
Why were you movingyour hand like that?"
"Oh, I often gesturelike this," she replied, switching slyly toa side-to-side motion.
"No, not llke that(side-to-side) I said, "like thief" (up anddown).
She reluctantly conceded the point.Score one against the proposltionalists.Of course the idea that a knowledgesystem can know by doing is familiar inartif icial intell igence under the rubric of"procedural knowledge" (Winograd, 1972;Rumelhart, Lindsay, & Norman, 1972).
It isalso basic tenet of Piaget's psychology ofknowledge.
Nevertheless, the proceduresinvolved in particular mental simulationsare not well understood.
While in principleit may be possible to separate the conceptof simulation from the discussion ofnon-lingulstic codes or images, in practicethe two areas seem intertwined.
In thispaper I will discuss the mental simulation140of spatial traversals, as provoked bystories of individuals going from here tothere and encountering various events andobjects along the way.T~e Si~ulatio~ of TraversalsOur assumption is that when anindividual hears a story about a traversalthrough a spatial territory, he will tend toconstruct a simulation of this traversal,employing some mixture of linguistic andspatial elements in this construction.
Thisassumption has considerable intuitiveappeal, although it may not appeal to theintuitions of everybody, and indeed, neednot be true of everybody.There are at least two interestingconsequences of this assumption, bothamenable to experimentation.
One is thatthe simulation process will recruit imaginedacts and objects not present in the storybut necessary for carrying out thesimulation.
A simple example arises in thefollowing story fragment: "He stood watchingthe house from outside the white picketfence.
Finally, he opened the gate and wentinto the yard..." Most listeners to theselines report the spontaneous invention ofsome particular kind of latch used to openthe gate.
It is either "seen" orrepresented by a motor sequence, or both.Another type of example is the following.
"As Jack approached the intersection, hecould make out the sign reading "BroadStreet'.
Turning the corner, he quicklyspotted the drug store he had been lookingfor".
To the subsequent question whetherJack turned left or right at the corner,most people report having a definite opinionthat one or the other was correct, or at anyrate was the way they saw it.It would be interesting to demonstrateand delimit a strong version of thisphenomenon, wherein subjects would feelcertain that particular details had actuallyoccurred in the traversal story even whenthey hadn't.
Some cognitive psychologistshave documented a milder confusion betweenpresented and remembered information, inwhich conclusions strongly implied by a textare stored as though they were explicit inthe text (Bransford, Barclay, & Franks,1972; Kintsch, 1974).
It has also recentlybeen conjectured by Schank and Abelson(1975) for textual contexts replete withcliche -- "situational scripts" such aseating in a restaurant -- that listenerswill insert missing obvious details withoutlater realzing that they have done so.
Thesimilar pheonomenon conjectured here wouldbe even more striking because the inserteddetails would be essentially gratuitous: thestories do not imply any particular type ofgate latch or direction of turn, etc.I would llke to be able to report toyou that we had indeed done an experimentsuccessfully establishing this phenomenon.Then we could debate whether it wassomething special to simulaton andnon-l inguistlcal ly coded materials (as Iwould hope it would be), or whether it hadIIIIIIii11III1!IIIIto do more general ly with what Minsky (1974)would call "f i l l ing in default values" inknowledge frames.
Unfortunately I am notable to report this.
We tried oneexperiment last summer but were unable tointroduce a long enough time delay to permitsubjects to lose the short-term surface cuespermitt ing the discr iminat ion whether agiven detail was actual ly in the story ornot.
We are going to try again soon.What I can report to you is anexperiment on a second phenomenon.
If intheory we accept s imulat ion as a reasonableprocess by which a traversal can beunderstood, we must face the ambiguity thatthere are different vantage Points fromwhich a Riven simulation ~?
b ge conducted.The most obvious vantage dif ference isbetween a simulat ion of the individualhimself performing the traversal, and as imulat ion of someone watching thatindividual.
This dist inction, as we shallsee, can have important consequences formemory of the story.Points of  View of the Self ~nd the Observer:A__nn ExperimentA l istener s imulat ing a traversal fromthe point of view of the story characterwill presumably generate motor images aswell as visual images such as might appearto the actor.
On the other hand, asimulator from an observer's point of viewwould presumably not be disposed towardmotor or other body sensation images, andhis visual images would have a differentperspective from that of the actor.
Forexample, very large objects might be infocus for a distant observer, but not wellperceived by an actor too close to them.These considerat ions served as the basis foran experiment designed and run incol laborat ion with Richard Pinto.A 68-sentence story about a characterleaving a hotel and strol l ing a block downthe street was read in common to subjectsgiven three different instructions.
Allsubjects were told to close their eyes and"imagine, as best and as vividly as you can,along with what you hear".
Each sentencewas to be rated on a scale of vividness.
(this instruct ion was intended to disguisethe memory nature of the study.)
Addit ionalinstruct ions were given to const itute twodifferent vantage point conditions.
In theSelf group, subjects were told to imag inethemselves being the main character in thestory.
In the Balcony group, subjects weretold to imagine themselves watching from afourth-f loor hotel balcony.
A No VantagePoint group got no specif ic vantage pointinstruction.There were three crucial kinds ofdetails in the story: "far visual" details,items which in real ist ic perception can bestbe seen from far away (such as a sign over abank); "near visual" details, natural toview from close range (such as awristwatch);  and "body sensation" details(such as aggravat ing a sore arm, or drinkinghot coffee).
We hypothesized that when141faced with a long, meandering story, thel istener in the Self condit ion would tendpreferent ia l ly  to absorb "body sensation"details, and the l istener in the Balconycondit ion would tend preferent ia l ly  toabsorb "far visual" details.
The matter isnot so simple for "near visual" details.
Ina pilot study, we found that Balconysubjects sometimes reported "f loating down"off the balcony from time to time, as itwere, to peer v icar iously over the actor'sshoulder at details otherwise too small toimagine seeing clearly from a distance.
(Such f lexible perspective is reasonable inthe light of Kcsslyn's (1974) experiments onvisual image size, showing that it isd isadvantageous to retrieve detai ledinformation from small visual images.
)Table I gives the mean proport ions ofthe three different types of detailscorrect ly recal led by subjects in eachexperimental  condition, on a 21-item cuedrecall test administered approximatelytwenty minutes after hearing the story.
Ourpredict ions were clearly supported.
TheBalcony group averaged 17.6% better recallOf far visual detai ls than the Self group,and the Self group averaged 15.0% betterrecal l  of body sensat ional  details than theBalcony group.
There were no dif ferencesfor near visual details.
For each type ofdetail, the No Vantage Point group did aboutas badly as whichever of the other twogroups had the "wrong" vantage point.One other  dependent measure in thestudy produced interest ing results.Preceding the cued recall test was a freerecall  task in which all subjects were askedto try to recreate the story as best theycould, llne for line.
Each recalled linewas scored for whether it captured the gistof a corresponding original  story line.Subjects often left out whole scenes, andreversed the order or events, although theydid not often invent details which were notthere.
The pattern with the Balcony grouprelat ively more correct than the Self groupon far visual detai ls as opposed to bodysensat ion detai ls was present in these freerecall  data, although not as strongly as incued recall, and not stat ist ica l lysignif icant.
A very signif icant di f ferencewas present, however, in proport ion correctOn all types of items (including "fi l lers")for the No Vantage Point group.
The totalproport ions correct were .344 for No VantagePoint, .560 for Self, and .571 for Balcony.The corresponding proport ions over cr it icalitems on cued recall (Table I) were .508 forNo Vantage Point, .572 for Self, and .572for Balcony.
In other words, the No VantagePoint group exhibits an acute disadvantagein free recall  which it does not suffer incued recall.
Some of the story mater ia lwhich is avai lable in memory presents anaccess problem for the No Vantage Pointgroup.One further result is worthy ofmention.
All subjects were given Betts"Test of v iv idness of visual imagery.
Thesuper ior i ty of the Balcony over the Selfgroup on far visual details was sharplyenhanced in subsamples scoring high ongeneral visual imagery (a 32.6% superiority,vs.
a mere 2.4% superiority amongnon-imager subsamples).
This supports thereasonable supposition that processing styledepends upon the proclivities of theindividuals as well as the task orientationgiven whole groups of subjects.The overall pattern of these results isI think very difficult to explain from apropositionalist point of view.
Allsubjects heard exactly the same story.
Theywere all told to imagine along with w~atthey heard, so that one cannot argue thatsome subjects were oriented towardlinguistic and others toward non-linguisticcodes.
All that was different betweensubject groups was the vantage point fromwhich imagination was to be exercised.
Theresults, it seems to me, support not onlythe existence of non-linguistic codes, buteven more theory-bogglingly, the existenceof di@ferent forms of non-lin~uis$ic codeswhich depend on the point of view of thelistener.
Having made this strongstatement, I hasten to add the disclaimerthat I intend the word "existence" in a veryweak sense.
To pursue whethernon-linguistic codes are fundamentallydifferent mental entities from linguisticcodes is to walk into a hopelessmetaphysical quagmire.
Minsky (1974) hascompellingly argued that visual scenes canin principle be described by frames whichare essentially conceptual networks.Nevertheless it may be very useful" todistinguish vision-based concepts from otherconcepts, because there is a specializedcharacter to processes which operate onthem, such as mental rotat ion,  imagemagnification, etc.
This heuristic argumenthas recently been put forward by Kosslyn andPomerantz (1975).
In other words, I amarguing that different specializedprocessing modes are keyed to differentvantage points, and have differentconsequences for what is best remembered.Furthermore, the No Vantage Point groupseems to suffer in free recall from the lackof a special processing mode.
Perhaps thevantage point provides a set of higher-ordernodes in the network representing the story,facil itating access to the lower-order,story details.What ~r~ the Imolications for ArtificialIntel~imence?On the surface, this experiment mayseem barren of implications for artificialintelligence, because smart programs mightideally be able to reduce all sentences in astory to an interconnected meaningrepresentation for which there is no memoryloss.
Looking deeper, there are tworesponses to such a complacent view.
Firstof all, even if there were no memory loss,there is still the problem of thenon-uniqueness of the meaningrepresentation.
From a different point ofview, the meaning of the same story can bedifferent.
In AI parlance, one might saythat different frames are invoked, or thatdifferent inferences (or different numbersof inferences) are attached to the story142network.
The extent to which thispsychological truism will prove important inAI applications remains to be seen, but Ibelieve that it is short-sighted to overlookthis non-uniqueness problem.A more radical view is that programsshould not be designed to preserve all thedetails of understood texts, that theyshould in fact throw away "less interesting"information -- or at least bury it in remotestorage so that it doesn ' t  clutter theworking memory whenever the story isreferenced.
From this perspective, theConstraints of human memory are seen as anadvantage to intelligence, rather than as adeficiency.
People's skill in forgettingthings, particularly over the long run,might provide a good model for AI systems tostrive for.The trick lies in knowing what toforget, and that is where the vantage pointmight come in.
From a vantage point on abalcony, the kinaesthetic and tactilesensations of the main character arenonessential, and it is natural to spendless effort processing them.
(Perhaps thereis also a processing cost in switchingprocessing modes.)
From the point of view ofthe main character, items best "understood"by encoding them from long visualperspective are the least natural and mosteffortful.What we are saying here is perhapsnothing more nor less than the conventionalwisdom that the understanding process oughtnot to be sensitive to the understander sstyle and purpose.
Yet vantage point is amore specific variable than the vaguerconcept of purpose, and more amenable toexperimental manipulation.
We hope infuture experiments to manipulate vantagepoint in more subtle ways, such as bytelling stories with several characters,inducing subjects to identify emotionallywith one or another character because ofsimilarity to self.
Of course the differentcharacters will have different spatialperspectives in the story, and thereforewill experience different body and visualsensations.REFERENCESBransford, J.D., Barclay, J.R., and Franks,J.J., Sentence memory: A constructive vs.interpretive approach.
CognitivePsvcholomv, 1972, ~, 193-209.Kintsch, W., The Reoresentation of Meaninmin Memory.
Hillsdale, NJ: ErlbaumAssociates, 1974.Kosslyn, S., Effects of imagined object sizeon response time in mental imagery tasks.Unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, StanfordUniversity, 1974.Kosslyn, S., and Pomerantz, J., Mentalimagery reconsidered: An analysis ofPylyshyn's critique.
Mimeographed.Johns Hopkins University, 1975.IIIIIiI!IIi!I!III!Minsky, M., A framework .for representingknowledge.
Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology Artificial IntelligenceLaboratory Memo No.
306, 1974.Pylyshyn, Z.W., What the mind's eye tellsthe mind's brain: A critique of mentalimagery.
Psychological Bulletin, 1973,80, 1-24.Rumelhart, D., Lindsay, P., and Norman, D.,A process model for long-term memory.
InE.
Tulving & W. Donaldson (Eds,.
),Organization of Memory.
New York:Academic Press, 1972.Schank, R.C., and Abelson, R.P., Scripts,plans, and knowledge.
Presented at the4th International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Tbilisi, August,1975.Winograd, T., Understanding NaturalLanguage.
New York: Academic Press,1972.Table IMean proportions of correct recalls of story detailsSelfBalconyNo vantage pointTyPe of DetailFar visual Near visual Body Sensation (Overall).417 .616 .660 (.572)?
593 .613 .510 (.572).476  .572 .476 (.508)(p-value, Selfvs.
Balcony) (<.05) (ns) (<.05) (ns)143
