THE PHRASAL LEXICONJoseph D. BeckerABSTRACTTheoretical  l inguists have inrecent years concentrated theirattent ion on the productive aspectof language, wherein utterances areformed combinator ica l ly  from unitsthe size of words or smaller.
Thispaper will focus on the contraryaspect of language, whereinutterances are formed byrepetit ion, modif icat ion, andconcatenat ion of prev ious ly -knownphrases consist ing of more than oneword.
I suspect that we speakmostly by st itching togetherswatches of text that we have heardbefore; productive processes havethe secondary role of adapting theold phrases to the new situation.The advantage of this point of viewis that it has the potential  toaccount for the observed l inguist icbehavior of native speakers, ratherthan discounting their actualbehavior as irrelevant to theirlanguage.
In particular, thispoint of view allows us to concedethat most utterances are producedin stereotyped social situations,where the communicat ive andr i tual ist ic  functions of languagedemand not novelty, but rather anappropr iate combinat ion offormulas, cliches, idioms,al lusions, slogans, and so forth.Language must have or iginated insuch constrained social contexts,and they are sti l l  the predominantarena for language production.Therefore an understanding of theuse of phrases is basic to theunderstanding of language as awhole.You are current ly reading amuch-abr idged version of a paperthat wil l  be publ ished elsewherelater.It's Not WHAT You S~?,..Like all other scientists, l inguistswish they were physicists.
They dream ofperforming classic feats like droppinggrapefruits off the Leaning Tower of Pisa,of stunning the world with pithy truths like"F=ma", and in general of having languagebehave in an orderly way so that they coulddiscover the Universal  Laws behind it all.L inguists have a problem because languagejust ain't l ike that.
Physical  laws arevery basic, general -purpose const i tutents ofthe universe, so the Creator was forced tokeep them elegant and potently simple.Language, by contrast, was recently inventedby Man for the sole purpose of giving hisFel low Man the low-down; for this reasonlanguage is  inextr icably bound to humans,60human communication, and the c i rcumstancesof human communication.Nevertheless, l inguists have tried toextr icate the inextricable.
The first levelof extr icat ion is to declare that there issuch a thing as "language", and that allother items like human beings, psychology,physical objects, events, and socials i tuations are "non-l inguist ic" and shouldplease go away.
The second level ofextr icat ion is to declare that there is sucha thing as "competence", which is what alanguage would be like if a decentmathemat ic ian had drafted it, and that allother items like everything that peopleactual ly say, write, or think are"performance" and should please go away.And so the "modern" l inguist spends hisor her time starr ing or unstarr ing terseunl ikely sentences like "John, Bil l  and Tomki l led each other" (to pick one at randomfrom a recent journal), which seethe withrepressed frustrat ion and are dif f icult  towork into a conversation.
These examplesentences bear no discernable resemblance tothe sentences which compose the text thatpurportedly explains them -- yet thel inguist 's own sentences are also al leged(implicit ly) to be drawn from the sameEngl ish Language!
Perhaps it is time thateditors, or at least readers, began applyingBecker's Cr iter ion to their readings inl inguist ic theory:BECKER'S CRITERIONAny theory (or partial theory) ofthe Engl ish Language that isexpounded in the Engl ish Languagemust account for (or at least applyto) the text of its own exposit ion.Using this handy guideline, you can prettymuch wipe your theoret ical  l inguist ics shelfclean and start over.This is not to say that there has beenno construct ive value in the attempt tophysicize (i.e., mathematic ize)  naturallanguages.
Without question, many importantregular i t ies have been discovered thanks tothis approach.
Nevertheless,  I feel thatfor a science to attempt to deny theexistence of nearly all of its subjectmatter (English as she is spoke) and to denythe existence of the substrate of itssubject matter (communicat ion between humanbeings) is (I) sc ient i f ica l ly  dishonest, andtherefore (2) u l t imately self -defeating.Modern theoret ical  l inguist ics is ratherclearly se l f -defeated already, and l inguistshave yielded the scienti f ic in it iatve tountutored computer types.
The latter arere lat ively unski l led in sophistry, but theyhave been trained to unf l inchingly  confrontlarge-scale, complex, inelegant, real -wor ldbehavioral  systems such as language, and toattempt to understand the workings of thesesystems without vainly pretending that theycan be reduced to pr ist ine-pure mathemat ica lformulations.IttIIItI1t!1|!I!||!
!Let's Face FactsMost of this paper will be devoted toorganizing and presenting the factsconcerning our knowledge of English phrases,rather than to expounding a theory thatwould explain these facts.
There are fourreasons for this.
First, the conspiracy ofsi lence which has surrounded these facts haslasted for so many years that it isworthwhi le to take a good look at them.Second, I hope to present the beginnings ofa taxonomy for lexical phrases.
Third, thephrases  themselves are more interest ing thanany theory will ever be.
And of coursefourth, I don't have a theory.
But actual lythe elements of such a theory are alreadyclear and present, as I will suggest in thelast two sections.The structures I am discussing in thispaper have often been swept under the rug bymeans of the disclaimer "Oh, that's anidiom."
The result is that we now find a lotof apples and oranges under the same rug.In order to replace the useless term "idiom"with a taxonomy of some substance, I amproposing six major categories of lexicalphrases.
The categories are l isted in orderof increasing "size" of the members, as thedescript ions below should make apparent.CLASS I: PolywordsNature: Mult i -word phrases admitt ing novariabil ity, interchangeable withsingle words or concepts.Function: The same as single words.Euphemisms sometimes fall intothis category.Examples: the oldestprofession (n.) \[= prost itut ion\]to blow up (vi., vt.) \[= toexplode\]for good (adv.)
\[= forever\]CLASS II: Phrasal ConstraintsNature: Units consist ing of a smallnumber of words, some of whichconstrain the var iabi l i ty ofothers; in the l imit ing case thewhole phrase is invariable.Function: Often specify how a part icularexpressive function is to beappl ied to part icular semanticmaterial.Example: If we wish to say that somethinghappened coincidental ly,  and wewish to underscore thatassertion, we say that ithappened "by pure coincidence";stronger yet is to say "by sheercoincidence.
"61CLASS III: Deictic LocutionsNature: Phrases with low variabi l i ty,short - to-medium length.Function: Serve as clauses or wholeutterances whose purpose is todirect the course ofconversation, i.e.
the f low ofexpectations, emotions,attitudes, etc.Examples: for that matter\[= "I just thought of abetter way of making mypoint"\].
.
.
,that's all.
\[= don't getf lustered\]CLASS IV :Sentence  BuildersNature: Phrases up to sentence length,often containing slots for"parameters" or "arguments".Function: Provide the skeleton for theexpression of an entire idea.Example: (person A) gave (person B) a(long) song and dance about (atopic).\[= "A tried to convince B ofsomething, and was cynicaland perhaps  less thantruthful about what hesaid"\]CLASS V: Situat ional  UtterancesNature: Usual ly completel itt le variabil ity.sentences,Function: Utterances which are known to bethe appropr iate thing to say incertain circumstances; may beused out of context for effect.Examples: How can I ever repay you?\[expresses moderate-to- largegratitude in response tosome kindness\]It only hurts when I laugh!\[expresses the unimportanceof some apparent aff l ict ion;or ig inated as a Vaudevi l lejoke\]CLASS VI: Verbat im TextsNature: Texts of any length memorizedverbatim, or approximately so.Function: Used as substance for quotation,al lusion, variation, andoccasional ly  direct usage.Examples: Better late thannever \ [p roverb \ ]How ya gonna keep em down on thefarm?\[song title\]99 and 44/100 percent pure\[advertising slogan\]The Region of Extract ion and ProcessingIn the textbook from which I firststudied Russian, each lesson began with asection entit led "Idioms and CommonExpressions", where they put everything thestudent couldn't understand on the basis ofhis current vocabulary.
I'm sure I learnedall of these phrases, but three inpart icular stand out in my memory: VyeraAleksyeevna otkrivayet dyyer" (VeraAleksyeevna opens the door), vsya chistol i teraturnaya dyeyatel 'nost"  prekonchalas"(all purely l iterary act iv ity came to anend), and raion dobichl !
obrabotki  (theregion of extract ion and processing).
Sadto say, this book did not prepare me for myvisit to the Soviet Union.
I d iscoveredthat the book's expression for asking thetime of daY was not the one that peopleused, and that I had no idea whatsoever howto get a 10-kopek piece changed into three3"s and a I so I could use the vendingmachines.This is the real ity of language: Inorder to survive in society we ve got toknow what to say, and we usual ly know it inadvance by memoriz ing it.
The suggest ionhere is that the wonderful  feats of thehuman intellect, such as the use oflanguage, are based at least as much onmemorizat ion as on any impromptuproblem-solv ing (in this case, thegenerat ion of novel utterances).
We owethis insight to Minsky, his), and I am gladto see it f inal ly being recognized.What does all this imply for a theoryof language product ion?
It implies to methat the process of speaking isComposit ional:  We start with the informationwe wish to convey and the att itudes towardthat information that we wish to express orevoke, and we haul out of our phrasallexicon some patterns that can provide themajor elements of this expression.
Then theproblem is to stitch these phrases togetherinto something roughly grammatical,  to fillin the blanks with the part iculars of  thecase at hand, to modify the phrases if needbe, and if all else fails to generatephrases from scratch to smooth over thetransit ions or fill in any remainingconceptual  holes.My guess is that phrase-adapt ion andgenerative gap-f i l l ing are very roughlyequal ly important in language production, asmeasured in processing time spent on each,or in const i tutents ar is ing from each.
Oneway of making such an intuit ive est imate issimply to l isten to what people actual ly saywhen they speak.
An independent way ofgauging the importance of the phrasallexicon is to determine its size.There is no dict ionary in Engl ish thatcomes even close to encompassing the varietyof lexical phrases discussed in this paper,from cl iches to sentence patterns towisecracks to song lyrics.
The mostrespectable phraseological  dict ionary I havefound is an Engl ish-Russian one which Ibought when I found it to contain knee-highto a grasshopper.
This book has 25,000entries.
I estimate that I recognize abouthalf of them (the rest being Brit ish orarchaic), and that about half of the ones Ithink of are not in the book.
This gives usa bal lpark estimate of around 25,000phrases, which is very much the samemagnitude as our s ingle-word vocabular ies.And this does not include most of the ClassVI Verbat im Texts.All in all, we must conclude that thephrasal lexicon is very real.
Evenexcluding long verbatim texts, we probablyknow as many or more whole phrases than weknow single words (and I suspect thedisparity would be even greater for theunder-educated, i.e.
almost all ofhumanity, since book- learning adds morewords but few social s i tuat ions to theindiv idual 's  experience).Because lexical phrases are real, theyhave an advantage over transformat ions andother such chimeras :in that they areactual ly  observable.
Having read thispaper, you wil l  have no trouble hearing thecl iches as they come tr ipping off thetongues of the folks that surround you.And, for better or for worse, you wil l  feelthem popping out of your own brain when youspeak and when you write.
This experienceshould give you a better understanding ofthe process of language production than anytheory I could espouse to you on paper.End Te~tWhich brings us direct ly to the finaland ult imate question: Does Becket's papermeet Becker's Cr i ter ion?
Does the view oflanguage propounded here at least apply tothe language in which it is propounded?
Wellof course:Some Le~iccal  Phrases Encountered i_D_nThis Paperconcentrate (one's) attent ion onto give (a person) the low-downinextr icably  bound to(verb) the un(verb)ableto work (something) into a conversat ionit is time thatto start overthis is not to say thatEngl ish as she is spokeconspiracy of s i lenceclear and presentfor the most partan integral  partto sweep under the rugapples and orangesas (something) should make apparentin the l imit ing caseout of contextsad to saythe time of dayin advanceWhat does this imply for..
.
?the case at handif need be621!Ili,III!i!
!I!lif all else failsmy guess is thatas measured inas far as I knowno (n.) comes even close toa ballpark estimate(very) much the sameall in allwe must conclude thatto have (an/the) advantage overtr ipping off the tonguefor better or for worsewhich brings us toYet if we look careful ly at the text of thispaper, we find fairly long stretches withoutany apparent lexical phrases.
About these,three points should be made.First, most of the lexical phrases thatwe actual ly use in speaking or writ ing areI so humble and uninterest ing that they wouldnever appear on a list devoted topicturesque expressions like Dav?
Jones'sLocker.
Yet these humble patterns do mostJ of the work of language production for us.For example, the first sentence of thispaper (come to think of it) is composed ofthree humble patterns:Like all otherscientists, l inguist ics-wish they werephysicists.A: Like (pl.
n.),...B: all other (pl.
n.)C: (person) wishes (he/she) were(something)l You may say that these patterns are implicitin the lexical entries for the individualwords plus the grammar of English, but I saythat I am also famil iar with the patternsthemselves.
To write the first sentence ofthis paper, I brought forth pattern C toexpress my main thought, then took pattern Aand nested pattern B into it to express mysubordinate thought, and tacked this ontothe front of pattern C. No wonder my paperconforms to my own theories!Second, nothing in this paper says thatso-cal led "generative" processes do not playan important role in language production.
Iassert that their role is equal to or lessthan that of phrasal processes, but thatdoes not make it zero.Third, writ ing is a special ized skil lthat is not identical  to speaking, andtechnical  writ ing is especial ly so.
Ittakes us years of strenuous effort to learnto write, beginning long after we havecompleted learning to speak, and most of usnever learn to write very well at that.
II make this point, even though it somewhatweakens the impact of Becker's Criterion, inorder to counteract the tendancy ofintel lectuals to believe that their languagei is typical of the language as a whole.
Itisn't.
In particular, narrative monologues63do occur in the conversat ions of theunenl ightened, and I think you will findthem to be much more phrase-based than isany technical essay.And so I conclude that the rather messytaxonomy given in this paper, and the messyComposit ional  notion of language production,have a fair amount of truth to them when welook at what people actual ly say, think andwrite.
Indeed, I suggest that the realerthe text, the messier and truer thesenotions become.
All of this can of coursebe summed up in a single elegant principle,namely:BECKER'S RAZOR \]Elegance and truth are inversely related.Put that in your phrasal lexicon, and invokeit!
