The Primit ive ACTs of Conceptual DependencyRoger C. SchankYale Univers i tyNew Haven CTHow should a proposit ion appear inmemory?
It s imply cannot be stored in a formthat bears a strong relat ionship to theoriginal form of the input in naturallanguage.
Since it is possible to say .thesame thing in any number of different ways,it is unreasonable to suppose that peopleare constant ly  checking to see if aproposit ion that they have stored one way inmemory is the same as another they havestored somewhere else in a different form.What is far more l ikely is that people havedeveloped a kind of canonical  form.
No twoproposit ions in memory can be equivalent inthis view, since the canonical  form fortheir meaning forces them to be representedin the same way and thus stored and treatedin the same way by memory.A canonical  representat ional  schemecannot have natural  language words as itselements.
Words can be ambiguous and ameaning representat ion system must beunambiguous.
Furthermore, words can besynonymous and over lap in meaning.
Bydisal lowing synonymous canonical  forms ofproposit ions we have also disal lowed the useof words in the representat ion.The consequences of this are consistentwith what we know about people.
In memoryexper iments people consistent ly  exhibitrecognit ion confusions because of theirremembrance of the "gist" of a sentencerather than the words that they actual ly sawor heard.Conceptual  Dependency has as its basicpremise that the ACTION is the basis of anyproposit ion that is not descr ipt ive of astatic piece of the world.All proposi t ions that describe eventsare made up of CONCEPTUALIZATIONS.
Aconceptual izat ion is composed of an ACTOR,an ACTION, and a set of cases that aredependent on that ACTION.The main insight of ConceptualDependency theory is that there must be acanonical  form for meaning representat ions.The types of conceptual  roles that there arein this canonical  form do not correspond tosyntact ic roles.
Rather, words are brokendown into their conceptual  parts and thenplaced in a meaning representat ion withrespect to their conceptual  role rather thanthe syntact ic role that was chosen for themas a result of some, perhaps random, lexicalchoices.
For example, the word "danger" hasa nominal form, a verbal form (endanger), anadject ival  form (dangerous), and anadverbial  form (dangerously).
The meaningof the concept under ly ing "danger" is thesame no matter what lexical form is selectedto real ize that concept.
Basical ly,"danger" means that something can possiblyhappen that wil l  result in a negative effect34in somebody's physical state.
"Danger" isrepresented conceptual ly  as aconceptual izat ion l inked to a statedescription.
Certain elements of theconceptual izat ion are unknown, but can befi l led in by the words surrounding "danger'.The state descr ipt ion is part ia l ly known.It says that somebody's physical state maybe negat ively changed.So we see that "endanger" is no more anact ion than it is an actor.
Rather,"endanger" refers to a partial  conceptualstructure.
The word "endanger" also sets upan expectat ion that the syntactic subject ofthat verb wil l  contain the item that wil lhelp fill in the missing action that was"dangerous'.
Thus, in the sentence "Thebees endangered Bil l ," the "bees" are theactors of a conceptual izat ion that iscausal ly related to the state descr ipt ionthat the concept "Bill" wil l  undergo anegative change.
The action is sti l lunknown, but now can be inferred.
Thememory is consulted for actions that beesare known to perform that endanger humans.The simplest explanat ion is preferred andthe best candidate for the action is"sting'.
The object of that action is"Bill'.
The conceptual  representat ion of"The bee's endangered Bil l" says that "thebees may do an act ion (possibly "sting')which wil l  cause Bill to become hurt.
"We said before that words do not appearin conceptual izat ions.
Fol lowing that pointof view it is obvious that "sting" cannotreal ly sat isfy our needs here.
The idea of"sting" is correct, but it must be brokendown into its component parts.
We define anact ion as something an actor can do to anobject.
We define an actor as an animateobject, and an object as any concretephysical  object.
"Sting" sti l l  works underthese constraints,  but couldn't  we just havewell  used the word "bite'?
Although thesetwo words are s l ight ly di f ferent in theirstrict interpretat ions,  to the average user,these words are synonyms.
We are left withthe problem of descr ib ing the conceptunder ly ing them in order to sat isfy therequirements that we have set out above.In order to handle s imi lar i t ies andoverlaps in meaning as used by the man inthe street we have developed the concept ofthe PRIMITIVE ACTION.
Pr imit ive actions areintended to be the bui ld ing blocks out ofwhich the meanings of verbs and abstract andcomplex nouns are constructed.
Thepr imit ives are not category names but ratherelements that can be used in many variedcombinat ions to express the meaning of whatunder l ies a given word.Conceptual  Dependency representat ionsuse only twelve pr imit ive acts.
These actswere arr ived at by not ic ing structurals imi lar i t ies  that existed when sentenceswere put into an actor -act ion-ob jectframework.
Using this set of acts, a largerset of states and a set of conceptual  roles,it is possible to express a large amount, ifnot all, of the meanings expressible innatural  language.
We wil l  now descr ibe themost important of the primit ive ACTs andIIIIIIIIbrief ly mention the others.ATRANS The transfer of an abstractrelat ionship such as possession,ownership or control.
ATRANSrequires an actor, object andrecipient.ex.g ive=ATRANS an object from theactor to the recipient.take=ATRANS an object fromsomeone to the actor.buy=two ATRANS actions, eachcausing the other.
AnATRANS of money from thefirst actor to the secondactor.
An ATRANS of anobject from the second tothe first.PTRANS The transfer of physical locationof an object.
PTRANS requires anactor, object and direction.ex.go=PTRANS of an actor by anactor to a location.f ly=PTRANS of an actor to alocation.
Any ACT can haveanother act as itsinstrument.
For "fly" thatinstrument is PROPEL.PROPEL The appl icat ion of a physicalforce to an object.
If movementtakes place as a result of aPROPEL, a PTRANS has taken placetoo if it can be determined thatthat PROPEL was intended by theactor.
Direction, object and actorare required.ex.push=PROPEL an object in adirect ion by an actor.pul l=PROPEL an object in adirect ion (towards actor) byan actor.k ick:PROPEL an object in adirect ion by an actor usingthe instrument MOVE objectfoot.MTRANS The transfer of informationbetween animals or within ananimal.
For the purpose of deal ingwith the words people use todiscuss memory, we part it ion memoryinto three pieces: the CP (theconscious processor9.
Somethingbeing in CP means that it is beingthought of at that moment.
The IM(the intermediate memory) wherecurrent context is kept andcontextual ly  relevant informationis stored while in use.
The LTM(long term memory) where informatonis stored.
The various senseorgans serve as the origins in anMTRANS.
Recipient, object andactor are required, although herethese cases refer to the abovemental locations as recipients andmental information as possibleobjects.ex.remember:MTRANS information fromLTM to IM35forget:MTRANS cannot beaccompl ished on someinformation from LTMsee:MTRANS information to IMfrom the eyetel l=an actor MTRANSinformation to anotheractorread=MTRANS information froma book to IM by means ofATTEND eye to the book.MBUILD The construct ion within an animalof new informaton from oldinformation.
MBUILDing takes placewithin IM and receives its inputsfrom the CP and from IM.
Ittransforms them into a new idea andplaces that idea in the CP.ex.descr ibe=MBUILD a future actionor a new state.imagine:MBUILD a new idea thatis hypotheticalconsider=MBUILD from a mentionedinput into anunspeci f ied outputanswer=MBUILD a specif ic outputto somebody else's inputthat was just receivedin the CP.INGEST The taking in of an object by ananimal into the inner workings ofthat animal.
INGEST requires anactor, object, and direction.ex.. left margin 16eat=INGEST a solid into the bodythrough the mouthbreathe=INGEST air into the body throughthe mouthshoot up=INGEST a narcotic into the bodythrough a vein by PROPEL narcoticthrough needle.smoke: INGEST smoke from a cigarette intothe mouth by INGEST air through thecigarette.All conceptual izat ions requireconceptual izat ions that are instruments forthem.
The remainder of the primitive ACTsare primari ly the ACTs of instrumentalconceptual izatons.
They are:GRASP To grasp an object.ATTEND To focus a sense organ to an object.SPEAK To make a noise.MOVE To move a bodypart.EXPEL To push something out of the body.We have l isted above only one sense ofeach verb that we have chosen to describe.The power of the primit ive ACTs is that theycan point up s imi lar i t ies between words{such as the use of ATRANS for "give',"take', and "buy" while also h ighl ight ingtheir differences.
In addit ion they serveas a veh ic le  for d isambiguat ing ambiguouswords.
Thus, "smoke" as in "the barn issmoking- would not have INGEST in it butwould use a state descr ipt ion involving"smoke" and "heat'.
Similarly, "take" as in"take an aspir in" would be INGEST ratherthan ATRANS.
A program that makes thesedisambiguat ions and assigns the correctconceptual  structure to an input sentencewas wr i t ten by Riesbeck (1974).
The programuses knowledge about how words fit togetherin Engl ish and some general  knowledge aboutthe physical  world to make its dist inct ions.Upon encounter ing "take" for example, theprogram asks if there is an object aroundwhich is medicat ion.
It also must find outif the sentent ial  object is real ly " anaction, as in "take a beating."
If it is wehave neither ATRANS or INGEST but a causalstructure.
This series of tests helps todetermine the correct conceptual  sense for aword.The primit ive ACTs are useful fororganiz ing the inference process.
Ratherthan stating that if you see something, thenyou know it and if you hear something thenyou know it and if you read something thenyou know it and so on, we simply state thatwhenever an MTRANS exists, a l ikelyinference is that the MTRANSed informat ionis in the mental  location LTM (ourrepresentat ion for "know').
This is at remendous savings of time and space.
Forexample, any number of forces can causedif ferent kinds of state changes of damage,location and the like.
By l ist ing thecr i ter ia that must be met for theseinferences once under PROPEL, rather thanunder each indiv idual  verb that might callthem up, we organize our knoweldge of factsand events in a very useful way.
(Organiz ing the inferences under theACTs also serves to define the ACTsthemselves.
The theoret ica l  decis ion forwhat const i tutes a pr imit ive ACT is based onwhether  the proposed new ACT carries with ita set of inferences not already accountedfor by an ACT that is already in use.Similar ly,  a pr imit ive ACT is dropped whenwe find that its inferences are alreadyhandled by another ACT.
)We have recent ly added a new pr imit iveACT cal led PLAN.
PLAN is intended toaccount for an indiv idual 's  abi l i ty  todecide on a step by step course of act ionthat leads to a goal.
PLAN takes as input agoal and a set of possible plans that areknown to be ways to achieve that goal.
PLANdecides among them and produces as output asequent ia l  chain of conceptua l izat ions  thatthe actor intends to act out in order toachieve the desired goal.
PLAN takes MBUILDas its instrument where the items MBUILDedare the part icular  decis ions that make upthe select ion of a given plan.The general  form of PLAN is with anobject that takes as input a goal and theplans associated with that goal and producesas output the chain of acts that the actorintends to perform to achieve the goal.MBUILD is now redef ined as having anobject that takes mult ip le inputs deal ingwith the current facts and the logicalconsequences and bel iefs associated withthose facts and produces a new thought which36may or may not be an intended future action.ACTI ,ACT2,ACT3.
.
.actor <=> PLAN <-GOALACTS and PLANBOXESCONCEPTUALIZATIONactor <=> MBUILD <-FACTFACTBELIEFRESULTS OF FACTSThe di f ference in these two ACTs withrespect to their real izat ions in ENGLISH isas follows:John decided to go to the Bahamas.MBUILD new thought.John developed a plan to go to theBahamas.PLAN unknown set of ACTs.GOAL that is input to ACTPLAN is knownJohn knows how to get the money.PLAN with known goal.John f igured out who the murderer  is.MBUILD new thoughtJohn did that to get Mary to like him.PLANJohn intended to hurt Mary.PLAN (ambiguous if no ACT was done.
)John intends to hurt Mary.Ambiguous (not known if he hasf igured out how)The d i f ferences with respect to inferenceare:MBUILD We can infer that the facts werethere to make the decis ion and quest ionthe app l i cab i l i ty  of those facts.PLAN We can infer that the steps to a goalwere thought about before an ACT wastaken.We MBUILD goals.
We PLAN ways to getthose goals to become reality.The idea of pr imit ive ACTs has met witha general  agreement that such a thing is inpr inc ip le reasonable on the one hand, and ageneral  uneasiness with the set thatConceptual  Dependency proposes on the other.Do we real ly need such a small set?
Must webreak down all words into these pr imit iveseach and every t ime?
How do you arr ive atthe correct set?
What about words like"drive" or "dance" or "hunt'?The answer to these quest ions is notsimple.
We never sought to create anextremely small set.
We just happended onthat set in the course of attempt ing to findout what the ent i t ies such as "understand3"and "believe1" that we were creat ing were.The set that we came up with has so far beenadequate to handle a myriad of domains thatwe have tried.
We expect that over time adi f ferent set than we are current ly  us ingwil l  emerge.
However, our expectat ion isthat the order of magni tude is correct.
Itshould be possible to handle most wor ldswith a very small  set.IIIIIIII!IIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIThe quest ion of whether we must breakdown everything we see in terms of primit iveACTs seems to be the one that excites themost controversy.
Wouldn't  it be simpler touse Engl ish words where we can and breakdown into pr imit ives only when we have to?Yes, it would be simpler to do that if wehad a data base that had in it "John drivesa red car" and we were asked "Who drives ared car?"
Researchers who work with highlyrestr icted data bases probably have no needfor primitive ACTs.
But real understandingsystems must be capable of handling qustionssuch as "Who was that I saw moving down thestreet on those fancy wheels??"
or even just"Who parked that car over there?"
Life israrely as simple as naive question answeringsystems would like it to be.
Realunderstanding implies knowing what themeaning of everything you hear is, beforeyou attempt to process it in memory.
Thetruth is that it just isn't any harder tomap input sentences into conceptual izat ionsinvolving the primit ive ACTs than to do asyntactic parse.
(See the paper by Riesbeckin this volume.
)But what about words such as "drive"and "dance'?
The answer is that these words(and many others) have no simple meaning inConceptual  Dependency terms.
They are whatwe used to call SDO, meaning they were namesof prescribed sequences ofconceptual izat ions,  any subset of whichmight not be meant when the word was beingused.
These action sequences can be handledusing the primit ive ACTs.
The problem is indescribing just what "drive" does mean.
Theanswer is that it has a basic pr imit iveassociated with it (PTRANS by PROPEL here)but it also has what we now (see Schank andAbelson \[1975\]) call a script.
This scriptcarries along with it all the mundaneinformat ion that is known about "drive'.In creat ing the primit ive ACTs we madeno claim that these were the last pr imit iveentit ies that we would be creating.
We arenow working on a set of primit ives plans andplanboxes (described by me in another paperin this volume).
These higher levelabstract entit ies serve to organizeinformation about people's goals and plans.They work on top of the conceptual izat ionsthat are received as input.
Knowledgeorganiz ing primit ives are every bit asimportant as event organiz ing primitives.It is important to realize why we arecreating these abstract entit ies in memory.Basical ly, the reason for creating them isorganization.
A primit ive ACT in memory isuseful for organiz ing inferences around.Whenever that ACT appears in arepresentat ion, we know that a certain bodyof knowledge appl icable to that ACT is goingto be relevant.
Pr imit ive or abstractconstruct ionns in a memory are thereprecisely because a given body of knowledgeis frequently accessed as a unit wheneverthat abstract entity is accessed.Because we do not remember the or iginalinputs, the abstract entit ies that we createto represent them must serve a dual role.They must both accurate ly  represent the37meaning of the input as well as call uprelevant bodies of knowledge that will beappl icable as data upon which to baseinferences.
This dual responsib i l i ty  of theconceptual  representat ion means that theabstract elements within that representat ionmust be selected with respect to how theyaffect the other elements of therepresentat ion as well as whether they serveto organize informat ion in an eff ic ientmanner.
Since the primit ive ACTs must bemore careful ly chosen, there are seriousquestions as to what can constitute anacceptable and workable set.These considerat ions do not hold in thes ituat ion where abstract entit ies arecreated and the input information isretained.
Thus, in situations whereconceptual  representat ions are to beevaluated for goals that are impl ic i t lyexpressed within them, we are simplyevaluat ing the input conceptual izat ions.They wil l  not be replaced by whatever newconstruct ions are invented.
Thus, theselect ion of these higher level abstract ionsdepends mainly on whether we can find a usefor them.So, we are saying that there are manypossible kinds of primitives.
Primit iveact ions underl ie the words of a language.Operat ing on top of those primitives, andtherfore af fected by them, are a set ofpr imit ive knowledge organizat ion pieces.Gett ing at these is what  understandingunderstanding is all about.
