ON RETRIEVING INFORMATIONFROM VISUAL IMAGES*Stephen Michael KosslynThe Johns Hopkins UniversityBaltimore MDWhat shape are a German shepherd'sears?
By way of developing a set of commonintuitions, it would be appreciated if thereader would answer this query.
Most peoplereport that in order to answer this question(answer: pointed), a visual image of thedog's head was generated and the earsinspected.
The present paper is concernedwith this phenomenon, with how informationis represented in, and later extracted from,visual images.
The present theoreticalframework is in part presented in Kosslyn(in press), which unfortunately is notavailable for public consumption at the timeof this writing.
Thus, it seems valuable atpresent to reiterate briefly these ideas inthe course of further developing them.Theoretical FrameworkA computer ~raDhics metaphor: A visualimage is considered to bear the same basicrelationship to its underlying structure asa pictorial display on a cathode ray tube(CRT) does to the computer program thatgenerates it.
The underlying "deep"structure is abstract and not experienceddirectly, whereas the image itself seemspictorial in nature.
We are not claiming,however, that the psychological analogue tothe CRT displays pictures as such; rather,this structure is characterized assupporting internal representations(whatever they may be like) similar to thosethat engender the experience of perceiving apicture when a person is viewing one.
Thus,an image of a triangle need not be reflectedby anything actually triangular occurring inthe brain.The mind's e~e: Once an image isconstructed, we claim it then maybeinterpreted in terms of various conceptualcategories.
Following our metaphor, if wethink of an image as a design like that on aCRT, the "mind's eye" may be regarded interms of sets of processes that detectpatterns (e.g., lines, angles, closed areasof various sorts, etc.
), and relationshipsbetween patterns, in this display.
Thissort of classification may utilize a seriesof "procedures" (in Winograd's 1973, 1975,sense) that test for the criteria associatedwith membership in given conceptualcategories (like "pointedness," or "leg").The present claim is that the sameprocedures may be used appropriately forclassifying both internal representationsarising during perception which engenderexperience of a visual percept, and internalrepresentations experienced as a visualmental image.
*I wish to thank Steve Palmer and JimPomerantz for helpful criticism andsuggestions.
Some of the work describedherein was accomplished with the aid ofBiomedical Sciences Grant 5 SO5 RRO7041-09awarded to the Johns Hopkins University bythe Division of Research Resources, DHEW.
146An image space: The psychologicalanalogue to the CRT in our metaphor can bethought of as having spatial boundaries,although not necessarily ones as rigidlydefined as are the edges of a CRT; mentalimages, many claim, can only be expanded insubjective size to a certain point beforethey seem to "overflow."
We should note,however, that the display mechanism isinextricably linked to the processor, the"mind's eye," that operates on its contents.It could be argued that spatial constraintsimposed on subjective size of images are dueto the "scope" of this processor.
At thepresent juncture, the size of the displaymechanism and the spatial extent availablefor further analysis are indistinguishablefrom each other; we may just as wellconsider material outside the processor'sscope as having overflowed an internaldisplay screen.Capacity limitations: Our metaphorsuggests two loci where capacity limitationsmight occur: I) Perhaps only a limitednumber of underlying units (which representparts of an image), or limited proportion ofthe underlying structure, may be able to beactivated simultaneously; 2) In addition,perhaps the analogue display itself islimited in terms of how much area or detailcan be represented at any one time.Consider an analogy to a CRT display thatrequires a figure to be "refreshed"(re-painted) repeatedly by an electron gunin order to be maintained.
That is, astream of electrons is directed at a pointbehind the tube, and causes the phosphorcoating on the screen at that point to glow.The stream is then moved elsewhere, orterminated, and the phosphor begins to fade;unless this point is again exposed to theelectron beam, it soon will cease to glowaltogether.
If a displayed picture iscomposed of too many points, they will beginto fade noticeably ("flicker") betweenexposures to the electron beam.In addition to being simpleminded, itundoubtedly is wrong to consider a human'svisual image in terms of a sequence ofpoints, let alne as a sequence of pointsindividually plotted.
A better way toconceptualize imagery might be in terms ofhierarchical representations.
Subroutinesfor displaying lines, arcs, and a set ofbasic patterns might serve as primitives;these basic units could be built into thesystem or learned.
All that need be storedin a particular perceptual memory is thehighest levels of description, which can beused to direct the low-level subroutines toplot a display of the represented entity.Such notions might help us to understand whyimages seem composed of parts which neverare only "half-present."
A hierarchicalconception also is more reasonable vis-a-visstorage requirements; having to store thelocations of each and every segment of afigure would soon place excessive demands onmemory as one accumulated image encodings.Thus, limits in the capacity of the analoguedisplay mechanisms might best be thoughtabout in terms of how many surface Parts ofan image can be displayed simultaneouslyIIII!IiIIIIiIIIIIIiIIIbefore imaging resembles a "mental jugglingact," with pieces sl ipping in and out.Miscel laneous implications: The basiccomputer graphics metaphor providesintuit ively appeal ing (to many), ways ofviewing many other aspects of imaging.
The"vividness" of an image can be considered todepend on (I) how much detail  is stored inthe underly ing structure and represented onthe image, and (2) how often the parts ofan image are refreshed from long&termmemory.
The experience of "focusing" onpart of an image may reflect selectiveal locat ion of display capacity to apart icular portion of an image.
"Scanning"an image, then, would involve sequentialfocusing which shifts serial ly andcontinuously across an image.
Many otherimagery phenomena are easi ly thought aboutin this general framework; this exercise,however, soon loses its appeal as it becomesincreasingly apparent that greaterexpl ic i tness and specif ic ity regarding thehuman system is required in order toconceptual ize some of the more interest ingimagery f indings and introspect ions (e.g.,mental rotation of images).
Rather thanfill out our model by making more-or- lessarbitrary decisions, it seems mostpropit ious to discover how useful the modelis, as developed thus far.
In the course ofexplor ing empirical impl icat ions we shouldencounter data that will help us determinehow best to make our conceptual izat ions moreexpl icit  and rigorous.Some Experimental  F i~ ingsBasic methodology: Impl icat ions of thecomputer graphics metaphor have beenexplored primari ly with the use of one sortof methodology.
Subjects typical ly areasked to construct an image according tosome speci f icat ion (regarding size and/orcontext, depending on the experiment).
Someseconds thereafter, a possiblecharacter ist ic  of the imaged animal, objectand/or scene is presented.
The subject isto evaluate, as quickly as possible, whetheror not that character ist ic  is appropr iatefor the probed image.
For example, if he isasked to image a lion and then hears "feet",he is to look on his image for feet.
If theobject imaged does in fact have the probedproperty, he is told, it ought to be locableon the image.
Upon finding the feet, thesubject responds "true" by pushing a button;if the property is not appropriate for theimaged entity, he depresses another buttonto respond "false."
The measure of interestis the time required to evaluate his image.It is emphasized that this is an "internaldetection task" where we are interested inhow long it takes to use the image, to "see"parts, and we are not interested simply inhow quickly a person can make the correctassessment by any avai lable means.The effects of size: As objects becomesmaller, their const ituent parts become morediff icult to discern perceptually.
Manyfactors contr ibute to this effect.
One147factor may be that the procedures thatcategorize perceptual information need aminimal spatial extent upon which to operateeff iciently.
If so, our metaphor leads usto expect that propert ies of re lat ivelysmall images also should be more diff icultto identify.
And in fact this is true.Kosslyn (in press) reports six experimentswhere parts required more time to identifywhen the object was imaged subject ivelysmall compared to when the object was imagedsubject ively larger.
This result wasobtained when people adjusted the subjectivesize of a single image (of an animal)directly, and when size was manipulatedindirectly.
In the latter cases, size of aprobed image was manipulated by asking thesubject to image the target object adjacentto a much larger or smaller object.
Forexample, when subjects imaged an elephantand rabbit together -- correct lyproport ioned -- the rabbit was smaller thanwhen it was instead imaged next to a fly.In this situation, more time was required todetermine that a rabbit has ears, byreferr ing to imaged rabbit, when it wasadjacent to the elephant.
In anotherexperiment, this result was reversed simplyby asking subjects to image target animalseither next to huge fi les or tiny elephants.These results have been interpreted interms of the parts of larger imagesthemselves being larger.
We would expect,by this logic, that larger parts -- in andof themse lves - -  ought to be detected moreeasi ly on a given image than smaller parts.Kosslyn (1974) reports an experiment whereprobed parts of animals were selected suchthat the smaller part (e.g., "claws" forcat) was more strongly associated with theanimal in question than the larger property("head," for cat).
This situation al lowsone to dist inguish between imagery use andaccessing abstract representat ions of thesort described by Coll ins and Qui l l ian(1969).
If imagery is used, the larger partought to be evaluated more quickly.
Ifimagery is not used, not the smaller -- butmore strongly associated -- part should beJudged appropr iate more quickly (c.f.Conrad, 1972; Smith, Shoben, & Rips, 1974).These results were obtained in all 3condit ions tested (which dif fered in termsof when a subject generated the inspectedimage relative to the time of probe).The effects of  load: Another phenomenonsuggested by the computer graphics metaphoris that as more parts are added to an image,it ought to become more degraded due tocapacity l imitations.
More time ought to berequired to identi fy parts of more degradedimages.
And in fact this seems to be true:An animal property is evaluated more quicklywhen the animal is imaged next to a 4-cellmatr ix (that is, imaged as if it werepainted on a wall  to the animal's left) thanwhen the animal is imaged next to a 16-celimatrix.
Similarly, propert ies of animalsimaged next to images of two digits (paintedon an imaginary wall) were evaluated fasterthan when four digits were in the image.
Inthis situation, quest ions about the presenceof part icular  digits in the image also wereanswered more quickly when two rather thanfour digits occur red .
By varying therelative size of an animal and the number ofcells in the matrix (or number of digits)imaged next to it, it was demonstrated thatsize and number of parts had independenteffects on time to verify properties of theimage (see Kosslyn, in press; 1974).Time to generate images: The presentmetaphor suggests that images areconstructed, that the construct ive processesconsume time, and that subject ively larEerimages display more identi f iable detailsthan smaller images.
These notions aresupported by the results of a simpleexperiment: Subjects were asked simply toindicate when they had in  consciousness amental image of a given animal at one offour possible relative subjective sizes.
Asthe subjective size increased, so did thetime necessary to construct the image.Presumably, greater spatial  extents takelonger to fill in.
Because these extentsare greater, however, propert ies ofsubject ively larger images are more readi lyrecognizable and detectable than propert iesof subject ively smaller images.The maximal size of images: The presentmetaphor suggests that images cannot beexpanded in subject ive size indef in i te lybefore seeming to "overflow".
Kosslyn &Ralph (in preparation) tested oneimpl icat ion of this idea.
If one mov@s anobject in an image "closer," it wil l  seem toexpand subject ively until  it f inally nolonger is all in view at one time.
If sizeis constrained, then images of smallerobjects ought to be able to be movedsubject ively closer prior to overf lowing.Thus, for example, a mouse ought to bevisual ized in its entirety at a much closerrange than an elephant; if the elephant wereimaged equivalent ly  close one might "see"only a patch of gray hide.
This in fact wasthe result obtained in 5 experiments wherepeople est imated ( in~ various ways) thedistance of imaged objects at the point ofoverflow.
The correlat ion between thelongest axis of the imaged object (whichaccounted for the l ion's share of thevariance in a regression analysis) andest imated distance ranged from .86 to .98.We present ly are using these data to measurethe "internal visual angle" of the mind'seye (if you will), hoping that it remainsrelat ively constant when one imagesdifferent sized objects as largesubject ively as possible.Erasing and reolacing visual images:Our metaphor obviously does not commit us towel l -speci f ied posit ions on all issuesconcerning imagery.
The phosphor whichglows and allows display on a cathode raytube may fade relat ively quickly or slowly,depending on the variety.
For humanimagery, we would expect the psychologicalanalogue to this display mechanism also tohave fade characterist ics.
Since images dorequire effort to display internally, itwould seem economical  to have a mechanismdesigned to maintain them for a non-tr iv ial148amount of time thereafter.
Thus, we mightexpect that images, once formed, take timeto fade.
During this "rebound period" newimages should be diff icult to construct.Smaller, or less area consuming, imagesshould be easier to replace with asubsequent image because more "blank" spaceis avai lable in which to begin immediateconstruct ion of the new image.
With largerimages, in contrast, the existent image mustfade before a new one may begin to beconstructed.
Prel iminary results from twoexperiments lend support to this notion.In the first experiment subjects weregiven 4 digits (randomly selected) and askedto form a visual image of the digits in tworows of two each.
On half of the trials,the digits were to be imaged as largesubject ively as possible while stil l  keepingall of the digits in mind simultaneously,and on the remaining half of the trials theywere to be imaged at the smallest sizepossible while stil l  remaining identif iable.Fo l low ing  construct ion of the appropr iateimages, a subject received one of two typesof trials.
In one case, a digit waspresented, and he was to "see" if it wasincluded in the imaged set.
In the othercase, in constrast, an anlmal-property pair(e.g., l ion-feet) was presented.
In thisc ircumstance a subject was to forget aboutthe digits and verify whether or not theanimal had that property by referr ing to animage of the beast.
If the digit wasincluded in, or property appropr iate for,the image, the  subject was to respond "true"as quickly as possible (after consult ing animage), otherwise he was to respond "false.
"The results for digit probes were as before:A probed digit included in a large image wasdetected more quickly than when the soughtdigit was represented in a small image.
Thedata of real interest, however, were timesto evaluate animal -property pairs fol lowinglarge or small images of digits.
For "true"pairs, interest ingly,  more time was in factrequired when subjects had constructed alarge, compared to small, image of digits.This result is consistent with thehypothesis  that images require time to fade.The second experiment was identical  tothe first except that subjects did not varythe subject size of the imaged digits.Instead, the digits either were imaged as ifthey were bulky forms cut out of plywood,with very l ittle space between them, or asif they were drawn with very narrow lines.All digits were to be imaged at the samesize, however.
Not surpr is ingly  (given theresults of the first experiment),an imal -property  pairs required more time toevaluate if the preceding image portrayedbulky plywood digits.
Before any firmconclusions or inferences may be drawn fromthese data, however, appropr iate controlsmust be conducted.
When imagery is notrequired for evaluat ing an animal -propertypair, for example, the imaginal size or formof preceding digits should be irrelevant.In addit ion to this sort of control, wepresent ly are conduct ing a number of s imilarexperiments and repl icat ions.III!
!I!IConcluding RemarksA computer graphics metaphor of imageryseems to have some usefu lness.
Althoughthis treatment is not really an "analogue"model, as such, it also is not simply a"proposit ional" model either.
One mightobject to the necessity of an analoguesurface representation, and attempt to modelimagery in terms of networks of proposit ionsor the like.
Although something like ourdisplay must be postulated, it seems to me,in order to explain the phenomenology ofexperiencing an image, it need notnecessar i ly  be required to account for howimagery functions in human cognit iveprocesses (see Baylor, 1971; Moran, 1973,Pylyshyn, 1973).
It is the task of futureexperiments to justify inclusion of ananalogue stage in image processing.
Twosorts of research currently are in progressin my lab that bear on this issue.The analogue supposit ion would receivesupport if we demonstrated that pictorialpropert ies of imagery actual ly have somepsychological  consequences.
Some resultsreported in Kosslyn & Alper (in preparation)seem to implicate the pictorial  propert iesof imagery as an important factor in memory.In these experiments people imaged pairs ofobjects with both objects pictured either atnormal, appropr iate relative sizes or withthe second object imaged tiny relative tothe first.
When subjects imaged in thelatter way, their memory for the secondobject named in a pair (when given the nameof the first object as a recall  cue) wasmuch poorer than when size was notdistorted.
Similarly, if the name of anobject that was imaged tiny was used as arecall cue, recall  of the first object inthe pair (itself imaged at full size) alsowas impaired.
This result was obtained evenwhen we told people how the objects shouldbe interact ing in their images (thus, thesize effect is not an artifact of dif ferentrelat ions being incorporated in the two sizeconditions).
If the surface pictorialpropert ies of imagery are merelyepiphenomenal,  these results are dif f icultto explain.
If images, once constructed,then may be encoded into memory, theseresults are not surpr is ing given Kosslyn's(in press) f indings (i.e., smaller thingsare "harder to see").
The Kosslyn & Ralphresults on image overf lowing cited earl ieralso seem diff icult to account for withoutreference to some sort of analogue display.The second sort of data that seems toargue for a level of analogue displayconcerns the scanning of visual images.Earl ier work (Kosslyn, 1973) demonstratedthat if one must scan further on an image tolocate a property, more time is required toverify the appropr iateness of that propertyfor the imaged object.
Only three distanceswere used in this experiment, however, andsimple network models seem capable ofaccount ing for the data (in terms ofdistances between nodes in the net).
Thepresent work involves requir ing scanningacross 21 different interpoint distancesbetween locations on an imaged map.
If theactual distances predict time to shift fromone point to another, a network model seemshard pressed to account for these results.Such a representat ion might postulate thatdummy nodes exist between those representingthe locations; longer distances would beseparated in the net by more interveningnodes.
Another experiment currentlyunderway seems to preclude easy appl icat ionof such a model to all instances of imagescanning.
This experiment involves scanningfrom the mouth to the eyebrows (and thencategoriz ing them in various ways) on animaged face.
Four versions of each face areused, which vary in how low, how close tothe mouth, the eyes and eyebrows are (thesame sized head always is drawn, result ingin the appearance of individuals withmore-or- less large foreheads in thedifferent versions).
No details of a faceare changed from version to version otherthan actual metric distance between themouth and eye regions.
This variat ion wouldnot seem likely to distort an underly ingproposit ional  representat ion of a face in away that would lead one to predict shortertimes to scan shorter distances on an imagein  less time.
If these results provere l iab le ,  imagery phenomena may not be assimply explained as some of us had hoped.REFERENCESBaylor, G.W., "A treatise on the mind'seye."
Unpubl ished Ph.D. thesis,Carnegie-Mel lon University, 1971.Collins, A.M., & Quil l ian, M.R., "Retr ievaltime from semantic memory.
', Journal ofVerbal Learning and Verbal Behavior,1969, Vol.
~, 240-247.Conrad, C., "Cognit ive economy in semanticmemory.
', Journal o f  ExperimentalPsychology, 1972, Vol.
92, 149-154.Kosslyn, S.M., "Scanning visual images: Somestructural  implications.,, Percept ionand Psvchophysics,  1973, Vol.
14,NO.
I, 90-94.
~--Kosslyn, S.M., "Construct ing visual images:An exercise in neo-mental ism.,Unpubl ished Ph.D. thesis, StanfordUniversity, 1974.Kosslyn, S.M., " Information representat ionin visual images.
', Cognit ivePsychology, in press.Moran, T.P., "The symbolic nature of visualimagery."
Paper presented at the ThirdInternat ional  Conference on Art i f ic ia lIntel l igence, Stanford University,August, 1973.Pylyshyn, Z.W., "What the mind's eye tellsthe mind's brain: A crit ique of mentalimagery.,, Psychological Bulletin, 1973,Vol.
80, No.
I, 1-24.Smith, E.E., Shoben, E.J., Rips, L.J.,"Structure and process in semanticmemory: A feature model for semanticdecisions.,, Psychological  Review, 1974,Vol.
81, No.
3, 214-241.149Winograd, T.,Language.1973.Understanding NaturalNew York: Academic Press,Winograd, T., "Frame representatons and thedeclarative/procedural controversy."
InBobrow and Collins (eds.
)Representation and Understanding.
NewYork: Academic Press, 1975.150IIIIiiiIIIIIIiIIIII
