!
!Formal Reasoning~ndLanguage Understanding SystemsRaymond ReiterDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of Brit ish ColumbiaI .
IntroductionComputat ional  studies in l inguisticshave led to a variety of proposals~ forsemantic representat ions of naturallanguage.
To a first approximation theseall have a number of features in common.First, there is some formal language ontowhich, with the aid of a grammar, surfaceforms are mapped.
Secondly, there is aformal language (usually, but notnecessari ly, the same as the first) for therepresentat ion of world knowledge and whichis used to perform inferences necessary forintegrat ing the surface form into theknowledge structure, and/or for answeringquestions.
Finally, there is, or should be\[5,18\] a specif icat ion of the semantics ofthese formal languages.There seem to be three dominantproposals for semantic representations:(I) Procedural semantics \[16,17\] wherethe underlying representat ion consists ofprocedures in some executable language.
(2) Network structures \[11,13,14\] whichrepresent knowledge by appropriate graphicaldata structures.
(3) Logical representat ion \[3,7,12\] whichexpress world knowledge by formulae in someformal calculus.These dist inct ions are not nearly asclear as one might like.
Both logical andnetwork representat ions often appeal toprocedural components, networks appear to berepresentable as logical formlae via fairlydirect mappings \[15\], while logical formulaehave straight- forward proceduralrepresentat ions \[6\].In this paper I shall discussmechanisms for formal reasoning withinlogical representations.
I shall make the(gross) assumption that surface forms havealeady been mapped onto some form ofpredicate calculus representation.
Inparticular, I make no claims about the roleor nature of the inferences required inmapping from surface structures to a logicaldeep structure.
Neither do I take anyposit ion on the primit ives of this deepstructure.
They may derive from a caseoriented grammar, conceptual dependencytheory etc.
Ultimately, of course, theextent to which the choice of theseprimit ives faci l i tates inference will be afactor affecting this choice.
I take it asself evident that no semantic representat ioncan expl icit ly contain all of theinformation required by a languageunderstanding system so there is a need forinferr ing new knowledge from that expl ic it lyrepresented.
In this connection it is worthobserving that, contrary to some prevai l ingopinions, formal reasoning does not precludefuzzy or imprecise reasoning.
There are no175a priori reasons why notions like"probably", "possibly", etc.
cannot beformalized within a logical calculus and newimprecise knowledge deduced from old bymeans of prefectly definite and preciserules of inference.In the remainder of this paper Idiscuss two paradigms for formal reasoningwith which I have worked - resolution andnatural deduction - and argue in favour ofthe latter approach.
I also indicate howother semantic representat ions - proceduresand networks - might fit into this paradigm.Finally, I discuss some problems derivingfrom computat ional  l inguist ics which havenot been seriously considered by researchersin formal inference but which I think mightfruit ful ly be explored within a logicalframework.2.
Paradigms for Formal ReasoningA.
Resolut ion \[10\]The resolut ion principle is based onfive key concepts, two of which (theel iminat ion of quanif iers through thein t roduct ion  of Skolem functions,unif ication) are of part icular relevance toproblems in the representat ion of l inguisticdeep structures.I) The el imination of quantif iersOne miht choose to assign to thestatement "Every animal has a nose" alogical representat ion of the form(x ) (3y) \ [ANIMAL(x)~HAS-AS-PART(x ,y )NOSE(y)\] (I)As is well known, the sequence ofquanti f iers at the head of this formula iscr it ical to its interpretat ion -interchanging them assigns a total lydifferent meanng to the formula.
Hence eachquanti f ier is assigned a scope which,roughly speaking, is the maximal part of theformula governed by that quantif ier.Unfortunately, the representat ion ofquanti f iers and their scope leads to somecomplexity in processing this information.
(Anyone who has faced this problem insemanic net representat ions is well aware ofthe dif f icult ies.)
An elegant solution is toreplace each existent ia l ly  quanti f iedvariable (y in (I)) by a new Skolem function(which in (I) we can call "nose") whosearguments are all of the universal lyquanti f ied variables (x in (I)) in whosescope the existential  variable lies.
(Thusy is replaced by nose(x) in (I)).
Next, allof the quanti f iers are deleted.
Theresult ing formula is logical ly equivalent tothe original.
The quant i f ier- f ree formulaof (I) isANIMAL(x)~HAS-AS-PART(x ,nose(x ) )NOSE(nose(x)) (2)The reduction of formulae toquanif ier- free form also admits a primit iveform of inference by pattern matching(unif ication).
(ii) Unif icat ionIn effect the uni f icat ion algor i thmanswers questions like "Is formula A aninstance (special case) of formula B?"
or"Is there a special case common to both Aand B?"
Unif ication is simply consistentpattern matching i.e.
if a variable in oneposit ion matches an expression, it mustmatch the identical expression in some otherposition.
Thus ANIMAL(x) unif ies withANIMAL(fr i tz)  under the substitut ionfritzlx.
HAS-AS-PART(fr i tz ,nose(fr i tz) )unif ies with HAS-AS-PART(x,nose(x))  againwith fritzlx.
P(x,f(x),y) unif ies withP(z,f(a),b) under the subst itut ionalz,alx,bly,  but fails to unify withP(b,f(a),b).
(iii) Canonical form for formulaeThe resolut ion paradigm requires that aquant i f ier - f ree formula be converted toclausal form, i.e.
a conjunct of disjunctscalled clauses.
The conversion algor ithm isquite straightforward involving Booleantransformatons of the form A~B~AV B,AB~AW B, AW BC~(A~ B) (AV C) etc.
Theformula (2) has two clauses in its canonicalform:AN'IMAL(x) ~ HAS-AS-PART(x, nose(x))~ x ~  V NOSE(nose(x)) (3)(iv) The resolut ion rule of inferenceThere is but one rule of inference inresolut ion theory: If L IV~and L2~are  twoclauses such that (a) LI and L2 arecomplementary literals.
(A l iteral is apredicate symbol together with itsarguments, or the negation of same.
Twol iterals are complementary if they have thesame predicate symbol, and one is unnegatedwhile the other is negated.
)(b) The argument list of LI is unif iab~ withthat of L2 under a subst itut ion , then onecan infer the new clause (gV~)~.
Forexample, if we know tha cats are animals, orin clausal form~'~(y) V ANIMAL(y)then by unifying ANIMAL(y) on itscomplementary l iteral ANIMAL(x) in (3), wecan infer~T(F )  V HAS-AS-PART(y,nose(F))CAT(y) NOSE(nose(y)) (4)i.e.
cats have noses.
If in addit ion it isknown that CAT(fr itz),  then by unifying thison CAT(y) in (4), we can deduce the twoclausesHAS-AS-PART(fr i tz ,nose(fr i tz) )  (5.1)NOSE(nose(fr i tz))  (5.2)(v) CompletenessResolut ion is a refutation loJ~ic i.e.if T is some statement to be proved, theclausal form of its negation is added to theclauses represent ing the knowledge base, andan attempt is made to derive a contradict ionby means of the single resolut ion inferencerule.
For exmple, to prove that Fritz has anose i.e.
(~z)\[NOSE(x) A HAS-AS-PART(fr i tz ,z) \ ]first negate, y ie ld ing__(z)\[N--6-~E(z) ~ HAS-AS-PART(fr i tz ,z) \ ] ,then remove the universal  quanti f ier whichi~ds  the clauseNOSE(z )v  HAS-AS-PART(fr i tz ,z) .
Resolvingwith (5.1) yields NOSE(nose(fr i tz))  whichcontradicts (5.2).176Resolution is also complete.
Thismeans that if T is indeed logical ly valid (Tis true under all possible interpretat ionsin which the knowledge base is true) thenthere is a refutation proof of T withresolut ion as the sole rule of inference.There are two observat ions one can makehere.
The first is that resolut in is verymuch a competence model for formalinference.
By no stretch of the imaginationcan it be construed as a performance model,in part because of its canonicalrepresentat in for formulae, in part becauseof its "unnatural" rule of inference.Secondly, by virtue of its completenessresolut ion is provably adequate as acompetence model, in contrast withl inguist ic competence models for which theadequacy of any proposed theory is largelyan empir ical  question.It is the combinat ion ofrepresentat ional  security deriving fromcompleteness and theoret ical  elegancederiving from the simpl ic ity of theunderly ing logic that has led to so muchintensive research into resolution.
Inparticular, attempts to deal with the grossinef f ic iency of the theory have been largelysyntactic, des igned to constrain thepossible inferences that can be made, butwithout sacr i f ic ing the completenesssecurity blanket.
Very l ittle research hasbeen devoted to the representat ion and useof domain knowledge, primarily, I think,because the ways in which humans use suchknowledge have no correspondents within theresolut ion paradigm.B.
Natural  Deduct ion Systems\[ l ,8,9\]These can best be character ized asattempts to define a performance model forlogical reasoning, in contrast to resolut ionas a competence model.
In particular, anysuch model must make use of all of thedomain specif ic "non- logical"  knowledgeavai lable to a human, and make use of it incorresponding ways.
Among the features ofsuch systems are the following:(i) Formulae are quanti f ier- free,  but remainin their "natural" form.
Thus, (I) isrepresented in the form (2), not as (3).
(ii) There are many (not just one) rules ofinference~ each corresponding to someobservable inference mechanism used in humanreasoning.
Some examples: (grosslysimplif ied.
In part icular the role ofuni f icat ion is suppressed.
)(a) General ized modus ponens.
IfAAB~C~D is a known fact, and if A,B and Care all known facts, then D may be deducedas a new known fact.
If one of A,B or C isnot known, no deduction is made.
(b) Back-chaining.
If the current subgoalis to prove D, and if W~D is known, then apossible next subgoal is to prove W.(c) Case analysis.
If AV  B is known,generate two cases, one a context in which Ais assumed true, the other a context inwhich B is true, and proceed with the prooffor each context.
(d) Spl i t t ing conjunct ive subgoals.
IfIIII!I!II!
!iallIiII1IIII!lII.IIIiiiIIIIthe current subgoal is to prove AAB,  firstprove A, then prove B.
(e) Impl icative subgoals.
If the currentsubgoal is to prove A~B,  update the currentcontext with A, and prove B.Quite a number of addit ional  inferencerules are possible.
I have given a fewexamples only to indicate the flavour of theapproach, and its naturalness.
Someobservations.
First, the logic yieldsdirect proofs, each of which must beprovable assuming that its ancestor 'isDrovable.
This property turns out to becrit ical for the appl icat ion of domainspecif ic knowledge for reducing search.
(See (iii) below.)
I know of no resolutionlogic with this property.
Thirdly, thesearch for a proof proceeds by decomposing aproblem into simpler problems as in rules(c), (d) and (e).
Finally, there is anexplicit  representat ion of local contextswhich prevents irrelevant formulae inadjacent contexts from pol lut ing the localsearch.
By way of contrast, resolut ionsystems operate in a single global context.
(iii) Central to the natural deductionapproach is it emphasis on therepresentat ion and appropriate use by thelogic of domain specif ic knowledge.Examples of such knowledge are models,counterexamples, special cases etc.
Thefact that, as noted in (ii), each subgoal Wmust be provable provides the logic with ahandle on how to use such knowledge.
For ifW or some special case of W is false in amodel, or if there is a known counterexampleto W, then there is no point in trying toprove it.
If W is true in some model, or ifit is possible to derive consequences of Wwhich are known to be true, then there isaddit ional  evidence to warrant trying toprove it.In some approaches \[9\] formulae in theknowledge base may have associated with themdomain specif ic knowledge indicating howbest to use that formula in the search for aproof.
For example, in view of the enormousnumber of possible animals, there would beassociated with CAT(y)~ANIMAL(y)  theadvice: If you are trying to prove thatsomething is an animal and you don'tcurrent ly know it to be a cat, don't try toprove it is a cat.
The representat ion ofthis kind of knowledge clearly derives fromthe exhortat ions of the procedural ist  \[6\].
(iv) Natural  deduction systems areincomplete.
This seems to be a necessaryconsequence of their emphasis on generat ingsubgoals each of which must be provable.There are serious questions as to whetherthis is a sat isfactory state of affairs.
Afacile argument has it that humans arenecessar i ly  incomplete (because of naturaltime and space bounds) so there is no needfor computat ional  logic to concern itselfwith this issue.
However, for a logic toqual i fy as a performance model, it must beincomplete in precisely the ways that weare.
The fact is that we overcome some ofthe l imitat ions to time and space bounds byappeal ing to a variety of "non-logical"processes.
Typical of these processes is177the inspired guess which one encounters inmathematics whenever an induction hypothesisis proposed, or some obscure expressin issomehow pulled out of a hat to make a proofgo through.
One thing is certain.
Neitherthe induction hypothesis, nor the expressionwas discovered by any process of patterndirected (via unif icat ion) search using therules of inference of a logic, despite thefact that completeness guarantees theult imate success of such a search.
Thedi f f iculty with formulat ing an appropriatenotion of completeness for a performancemodel is precisely in character iz ing thesenon- logical  processes and how they functionin "completing" the under ly ing logical lyincomplete rules of inference.
One of thevirtues of natural deduction systems is thatthis dist inct ion between logical andnon- logical  processes is made, and that itis possible in some fairly generals ituations for the logic to recognize whento invoke appropriate external routines \[9\].3.
The Two Cultures - Future ProspectsIt is safe to say that there has beenlittle communicat ion between researchers incomputat ional  l inguist ics and formalinference.
The Just i f icat ion seems to bethat the former are concerned withperforming shallow inference on largeknowledge bases, whereas the latter focus ondeep inference over relat ively smalldomains.
I believe this dist inct ion is asuperf ic ia l  one, and that each discipl inehas much to gain from the problems andproposed solutions of the other.
As anexample of how a logical paradigm can berelevant to current ideas in computat ionall inguistics, consider the relat ionshipbetween semantic nets and logicalrepresentat ions.Almost all of the quest ion-answer ingsystems that I know of use semantic nets fortheir inferencing component despite the factthat(a) their semantics is by no meansclear \[18\](b) there are serious di f f icult ies inrepresent ing and processing quanti f iers andtheir scopes(c) no methods have been proposed forcomputing on a net which yield inferencingcapabi l i t ies even remotely approximat ingthose of a natural deduction system -capabi l i t ies which we know humans possess.These are all non-problems for anappropr iate logical system.
Nevertheless,there are def inite virtues to semantic netsas knowledge representat ions,  especial lytheir use in forming associat ions amongconcepts and their explicit  representaion ofsuperset links.
It seems to me that therewould be definite advantages to interfacinga natural deductive system with a semanticnet, each component doing what it does best.In its simplest real ization, imagine a netall of whose nodes denote nominal conceptsand all of whose links denote "subset" or"superset".
Within the logic, each variableand function symbol occurr ing in a formulais assigned a type which is the domain overwhich the varible is meant to range or therange of the function Symbol.
Each suchtype has a corresponding node in the net.For example, (2) would be represented asHAS-AS-PART(x{ANIMAL},nose{NOSE}(x{ANIMAL})) (6)The general fact that cats are animalshas no representat ion in the logicalcomponent, but is represented in the net byappropr iately linked CAT and ANIMAL nodes.Now the question "Does Fritz have a nose?
"translates to an attempt to proveHAS-AS-PART(fr i tz{CAT}, y{NOSE}).
If wecould unify this with (6) the question wouldbe answered.
However, a term (in this casex) cannot unify with another term (fritz)unless their types are compatible.
Todetermine compat ib i l i ty the  unif ier calls onthe semantic net processor to check whethera path of superset links connects node CATto node ANIMAL.
In this case there is sucha path, so the unif icaton succeeds.Notice how each component benefits fromthe presence of the other.
The logicbenefits by processing fewer, andconsiderably more compact formulae thanwould otherwise be necessary.
(Compare (6)with (2)).
In particular, compact i f icat ionel iminates many logical connectives, whichhas the effect of reducing the number ofappl icat ions of rules of inference inderiving a result.
This is so because theserules are "connective driven".
Since searchis largely a matter of the nondeterminist icappl icat ion of rules of inference, thesearch space is reduced.
Notice also thatthe unif ier is now responsible for someinference beyond that of simple patternmatching.
From a search strategic point ofview there are sound reasons for encouragingthis transfer of logical power from therules of inference to the unifier.
Thus,the unif ier should also be responsible fordealing general ly with transit ive andref lexive relat ions by appeal ing tocomputat ions on appropriate data structureswhich represent these relations.
Thegeneral point of view here is that as muchof the inferencing as possible should beeffected computat ional ly  rather thanlogically, leaving the logic to deal with"diff icult" problems.
Given this view, asemantic net is just one of a whole class ofpossible data structures which faci l i tatecomputat ion as a substitute for certainkinds of deduction.
Assuming that it ispossible to isolate "what nets do best" thedesigner of a net is free to tune itsrepresentat ion and procedures with respectto a few well defined tasks without concernfor its general inferencing abi l i t ies (orlack thereof).Finally, it must be admitted that thereare a host of problems deriving froml inguistic considerat ions which have noteven been considered by researchers informal inference.
Many of these problems,in part icular most of the "fuzzy" kinds ofreasoning described in \[2\], probably cannotbe nicely incorporated in any paradigm forformal inference.
Nevertheless, thereremain many interest ing questions worth178exploring within a logical framework.
(i) Other quantif iers.
Logic has beencontent to deal with just two quanti f iers -"there exists" and "for all".
Naturallanguage invokes a whole spectrum ofquanti f iers - "most of", "many of", "sevenof", "a few of", etc.
There is nodif f iculty in augmenting the syntax of alogical formal ism with new quanti f ierscorresponding to these.
The di f f iculty isin defining their semantics, and inspecify ing appropriate new rules ofinference.
It is possible, for example, todefine "most-of" in some set theoreticformal ism which effect ively says "more than80%", but I find this approach unsatisfying.A dif ferenct approach, borrowing on thesuccessful  treatment of "there exists" inlogic, might define "most-of" as a Skolemfunction with certain propert ies pecul iar toour understanding of the meaning of "mostof".
Thus, one property of the "Skolemfunction" most-of  is that it unif ies withany term of the same type as the argument tomost-of; the unif ier returns the atom"probably".
Thus, "Most dogs bark" becomessomething like BARK(most-of(x{DOG})) ,  and"Does Fido bark?"
translates toBARK(f ido{DOG}).
Unif icat ion succeeds andwe conclude something likePROBABLY(BARK(f ido{DOG})) .
Clearly thereare plenty of problems here not least whatwe mean by "probably", but the example givesthe f lavour of a possible logical approach,as well as an indicat ion how certain kindsof "fuzzy" reasoning might be modeled in anextended logic.
(ii) Dif ferent levels of memory - contextsfor wanting, needing etc.
Considerrepresent ing "x wants P" in some logicalformalism, where P is an arbitraryproposit ion.
In speci fy ing the propert iesof "WANT" we shall need (among other things)some kind of schema of the formWANTS(x,P) A QWANTS(x, anything derivable from P andQ) (7)where Q is an arbitrary proposit ion.
Thisis unl ike anything that researchers informal inference have had to deal with.
Onepossible approach, deriving from the contextmechanism in natural deduct ion systems, isto maintain a variety of contexts, onecontain ing formulae assumed universal ly  true(the knowledge base), and for eachindividual  x who wants something a contextof all the formulae represent ing what xwants.
Notice that within a want-contextthere is no commitment to the truth value ofa formula - x may want a unicorn.
The roleof the schema (7) is assumed by the logicwhich knows which intercontextual  inferencesare legal.
(iii) Computat ion vs. deduction.
This is ageneral problem involving the trade-offbetween the general i ty of deduct ion with itsattendant ineff iciency, and the use ofhighly tuned procedural  special ists.
Mypart icular  bias is that one cannot entirelydo away with deduction, but that the logicsaould recognize if and when a deduction isbest done procedural ly, call the rightspecial ist,  and know what to do with theIIIIIIIIi!results returned.
This point of view isreflected in my earlier suggestion that onepossible role for a semantic net is as aspecialist for checking compatibility oftypes.
Similarly, work in proceduralsemantics (e.g.\[17\]) can be viewed ascomplementary to deduction, not as anantithetical paradigm.Ideally, what we want is "search-free"inference i.e.
an appropriate collection ofprocedural specialists together with somesupervisory system which knows whichspecialist to call, and when.
If thespecialists are "factored out" there is nologic left.
The possibility of realizingthis ideal seems to me remote, if onlybecause mathematics is a human activitywhich does require formal inference andhence search.
Consequently, it is importantto better understand this trade-off betweencomputation and deduction (or the particularand the general) and we can hope that in thefuture researchers in formal reasoning willclarify some of the issues.
In thisconnection it is worth remarking that thedistinction between computation anddeduction is by no means clear \[4\].REFERENCES\[I\] Bledsoe, W.W., Boyer, R.S.
andHenneman, W.H., Computer proofs of limittheorems, Artificial Intelligence, 3(1972), pp.
27-60.\[2\] Carbonell, J.R. and Collins, A.M.,Natural semantics in artificialintelligence, Proc.
Third IJCAI,Stanford University, Stanford, CA(1973), pp.344-351.\[3\] Coles, L.S., An on-linequestion-answering system with naturallanguage and pictorial input, Proc.
ACM23rd Natl.
Conf.
(1968), pp.157-167.\[4\] Hayes, P.J., Computation and deduction,Proc.
Symposium on the MathematicalBasis of Computation, Czech.
Academy ofSciences (1973).\[5\] Hayes, P.J., Some problems andnon-problems in representation theory,Proc.
AISB Summer Conf., University ofSussex,Brighton, U.K. (1974), pp.63-79.\[6\] Hewitt, C., Description and theoreticalanalysis (using schemata) of PLANNER: Alanguage for proving theorems andmanipulating models in a robot, AITR-258 (1972), AI Lab., M.I.T.\[7\] McCarthy, J. and Hayes, P., Somephilosophical problems from thestandpoint of artificial intelligence,Machine Intelligence ~, Meltzer andMichie (eds), pp.463-502 (AmericanElsevier, NYC 1969).\[8\] Reiter, R., A semantically guideddeductive system for automatictheorem-proving, Proc.
Third IJCAI,Stanford University, Stanford CA (1973),pp.41-46.\[9\] Reiter, R., A paradigm for formalreasoning, Dept.
of Computer Science,Univ.
of British Columbia(forthcoming).\[10\] Robinson, J.A., A machine orientedlogic based on the resolution principle,J_=.
ACM, 12 (1965), pp.23-41.179\[11\] Rumelhart, D.E.
and Norman, D.A.,Active semantic networks as a model ofhuman memory, Proc.
Third IJCAI,Stanford University, Stanford CA (1973),pp.450-457.\[12\] Sandewall, E.J., Representing naturallanguage information in predicatecalculus, Machine Intelligence 6,Meltzer and Michie (eds), pp.
255-277.\[13\] Schank, R.C., Identification ofconceptualizations underlying naturallanguage, Computer Models of Thought andLanguage, Schank and Colby (eds),pp.187-247, (W.H.
Freeman and Company,San Francisco CA, 1973).\[14\] Simmons, R.F., Semantic networks: theircomputation and use for understandingEnglish sentences, Computer Models ofThought and Language, Schank and Colby(eds), pp.63-113.\[15\] Simmons, R.F.
and Bruce, B.C., Somerelations between predicate calculus andsemantic net representations ofdiscourse, Proc.
Second IJCAI, TheBritish Computer Society, London (1971),pp.524-530.\[16\] Winograd, T., Understanding NaturalLanguage, Cognitive Psychology, 3,(1972).\[17\] Woods, W.A., Procedural semantics for aquestion-answering machine, AFIPS Conf.Proc., FJCC, 33 (Part I), (1968),pp.457-471.\[18\] Woods, W.A., What's in a link:Foundations for semantic networks,ReDresentation and Understanding, Bobrowand Collins (eds), Academic Press(forthcoming).
