ON UNDERSTANDINGPOETRY*D. L. WaltzUniversity of I l l inoisUrbana ILBy choosing to analyze examples oflanguage which are unconventional  and cannotalways be grasped instantly by people, Ibelieve that otherwise hidden processesactive in language understanding can beexposed for examination.
This paperaddresses speci f ical ly  the problems of howmuch knowledge is attached to a word, howmuch meaning is contained in syntacticstructures, and ult imately what kinds ofprocessing mechanisms are  necessary tounderstand things which may be said inEnglish.I would like to make several mainpoints: first, that while processing isgeneral ly organized around verbs, the targetstructure, or structure that a speakerwishes to transmit to the hearer, may verywell not be organized around verbs; second,that the part of speech of a word and thesyntactic structure of a sentence havelittle in genera l  to do with their meanings;third, that words may in general have largeframelike structures attached to them whichguide processing; and fourth, that languageunderstanding, especial ly  of novel languagelike poetry and metaphors, often involvesthe forcing of agreement between two or moreframes to form a target structure.
F inal lyI will say a few words about relevantcurrent AI programs and about how easi lythey might be extended to handle suchl inguist ic phenomena.Unfortunately,  this paper points outmany more problems than it solves, and doesnot offer any more than a sketch ofnecessary processing mechanisms.Target StructuresCase grammar theories as developedespecia l ly  by Fi l lmore (1968) andCelce-Murc ia  (1972) have argued convincinglythat sentence processing is centered aroundthe verb.
However the meaning which aspeaker wishes to transmit to a hearer mayin fact not be centered around verbs at all.As Minsky (1974) writes:In more extended discourse.
.
.
Ithink that verb-centered structuresoften become subordinate or evendisappear.
The "topic" or theme ofa paragraph is as l ikely to be ascene as to be an action, as l ikelyto be a character izat ion of aperson as to be something he isdoing.
Thus in understandingdiscourse, the synthesis ofverb-structure with itscase-arguments may be a necessarybut transient phase.
As sentences*This work was supported by theOff ice of Naval Research underContract NO0014-67-A-0305-O026,  atthe Coordinated Science Laboratory,Univers i ty of I l l inois, Urbana.
20are understood, the result ingsubstructures must be transferredto a growing "scene-frame" to buildup the larger picture.By "target structure" I will refer roughlyto what Minsky has cal led here "the largerpicture.
"However it may not always be the casethat large target structures are built upincremental ly  in a discourse.
Sometimes alarge target structure may be created by asingle sentence, as inI) The gir l 's room seemed to thepriest like the inner circle ofDante's Inferno.
!IIIiIIHere in a few words one can evoke a pictureof a dark, foul-smell ing, hot and oppressiveplace, and the target structure is somethinglike a list of such character ist ics  assignedto "the gir l 's room."
This target structurebears l itt le resemblance to any "deepstructure" I can imagine obtaining by merelypars ing  this sentence.The Meaning of  Syntactic Structures im Even in much simpler sentences, thetarget structure may not bear much relat ionto the "deep structures" of the sentences.
--iThis is most clearly demonstrated in the | case of pictured descr ipt ions of the world,where the parts of speech of words are notan accurate guide to their meanings.
Forexample, why should explode and burn beverbs, while noise and l ightning are nouns?
|Whorf (1940) discusses such examples atlength, and argues persuasively that our useof nouns and verbs to describe the world idoes not ref lect the inherent  structure of | the world, but rather ref lects ourl inguist ic training.Whorf  goes even further, to argue thatwe tend to "see" l ightning as  a thing |because it is a noun, but burning as anact ion because it is a verb.
Thus in thisview, the words we have to describe theworld warp our percept ion of the world.
If m this is true, then it may be that ourpercept ion is largely symbolic, as Minsky(1974) suggests, and syntactic structuresmay be meaningful  in the sense that frames ?would be in i t ia l ly  composed of syntactic |structure fragments.
The fact is thatEngish is rather inconsistent in the typesof words and structures it uses to descr ibe mmphenomena, and therefore inconsistent in the g meanings of syntactic relations.
This factmay be int imately related to the fact thatit is di f f icult  to choose logical ly adequatearcs and links for represent ing relat ions ?between nodes of semantic nets, as S demonstrated convinc ingly  in Woods (1975).In any case, it seems to me that one shouldbe wary about assigning much meaning to a msyntact ic structure.
|I!How Much Meaning is Attached to a Word?The amount of structure one mustpostulate to be attached to a Word variest remendously depending on the part icularword and the context of its use.
Here Iwil l  try to show certain simple cases inwhich quite large amounts of knowledge mustbe attached to words.
Take for example thefol lowing sentences:(2) John is a physician.
(3) John is a Renaissance man.In the first sentence (2), it seems thatparsing plus simple semantic mechanisms canextract much of the meaning, if one assumesthat "x is a y" means "x is a member of theset of all y."
A system embodying thesemechanisms (like Raphael (1968)) couldproperly set up "member" and "superset"links between John and physician.
I wil largue later that this analysis of meaning isinsuff ic ient,  but for now let us assume thatit at least captures much of the intendedmeaning of this sentence.However, such an analysis will c learlynot suff ice for sentence (3).
Why not?Part ia l ly because membership in the set of"Renaissance men" is not neatly del ineatedas is membership in the set of physicians;it would seem exceedingly strange to set upa single node in a semantic net labeled"Renaissance men."
Another reason is thatthe sentence seems to real ly be a statementof the speaker's opinion, and as such ahearer would need to have separate nodes for"Harriet 's list of Renaissance men,""Lyndon's list of Renaissance men" and so onfor each speaker who has so c lassi f ied aperson to the hearer.
Of course this tooseems ludicrous.
The under ly ing meaningconveyed by the sentence is not purely amatter of opinion on the part of thespeaker, but something like "John isknowledgeable and accompl ished in a numberof di f ferent f ields," a matter (potential ly)testable by the hearer.
That this is thetrue import of the sentence can bedemonstrated by the fact that(4) John is a Renaissance man, but hehas no knowledge about AI.provides a reasonable contrast ofproposit ions, whereas(5) John is a Renaissance man, butHarriet doesn't think so.does not seem to be a reasonable contrast.Sentence (4) suggests something else ofinterest.
After(3) John is a Renaissance man.we expect something like(6) He plays oboe in the Bostonsymphony, won the Nobel Prize inphysics, has written 30best-sel l ing novels, and won the1972 U.S. Demol i t ion DerbyChampionship.21Sentence (6) supports the original  assert ionand gives a part icular instant iat ion of thegeneral concept of "Renaissance man '~appropr iate for John.
I bel ieve thatsentence (3) sets up something like theskeleton of a frame for "Renaissance man" asits target structure, leading one to expectfurther explanat ion or expansion to fill inthe empty slots of the frame.Let us now reconsider sentence (2).When one says that "John is a physician,"does one merely set up in the hearer linksbetween two nodes named John and physic ian?Consider the fol lowing sentences:(7) John is a physician, but he doesnot know much about medication.
(8) John is a physician, but he doesnot mind taking orders.I bel ieve that these sentences i l lustratethe fact that in understanding "John is aphysician" one is not merely sett ing up alink between two nodes but is in factass igning to John a number of defaultattr ibutes of physicians, i.e., the hearertakes the word physic ian to refers imultaneous ly  to an entire complex ofattr ibutes, knowledge, actions andatt itudes.
Thus (7) provides a reasonablecontrast, since one would expect a physic ianto know about medication.
A l istener mightinfer from (8) that the speaker presupposedthat all physic ians resent taking orders.But more than presupposit ion of the speakeris at work here; the sentence(9) John is a physician, but he resentstaking orders.seems a ludicrous contrast, almost like "Hemay be fat but he runs slowly."
One thing weknow about doctors is that they ordinar i lydo not take orders, so it is quite plausiblethat they might not like to take orders.The point here is that even such unl ikelyinferences as (8) seem to be includedautomat ica l ly  in the sentence "John is aphysic ian."
That there is a limit to suchinferences is i l lustrated by the fact that(10) John is a physician, but he has alow bowling average.and(11) John is a physician, but he has ahigh bowling average.both seem equal ly to be non-sequiturs.Understanding PoetryThe types of language which are mostdiff icult  for us to understand may besti l lustrate the amounts of knowledge thatmust be attached to words and the methodsfor combining this knowledge or t ransferr ingcomplexes of knowledge from one domain toanother (as in metaphor).
Everyday languagecommunicates famil iar  relations, events andattitudes, and does so in famil iar ways.
Inthe terms of this paper, the targetstructures of such communicat ion alreadyexist as frames which need onlyinstant iat ions and except ions to becomecomplete representations.
As  such, the fullmeanings of words rarely become evident.Let us consider some examples which requireoverhaul or forcing together of ex ist ingstructures.An accident is an inevitableoccurrence due to the action ofimmutable natural laws.-Ambrose Bierce, The Devil 'sDict ionaryWhat makes this funny is that it pointsout a confl ict between essential  facts inour frames which explain personal actions,and our frames which explain physicalevents.
One cannot s imultaneously hold theview that accidents are the result of randomchance and the view that "God does not throwdice," yet we do.
A system which is notaware of the humor in this unresolvableconfl ict cannot be said to understand thepassage.Inebriate of air am I,And debauchee of dew,Reeling, through endless summer days,From inns of molten blue.-Emily Dickinson,from "I taste a l iquor never brewed"In order to understand this passage onemust force together frames for dr inkingimmoderately invoked by inebriate,debauchee, r eel in~ and inns and forexper iencing nature, invoked by air, dew,endless summer days, and molten blue(skies).
(See Charniak (1972) for adiscussion of the di f f iculty of invoking aframe when it is not mentioned expl ic i t ly  byname.)
In this case note the di f f iculty ofsaying something similar in a sentence: "Iget drunk from experiencing nature" does notseem to produce anything like the sametarget structure for me, probably because Iam not forced to interweave the two framesas I am in the poem.A great deal of communicat ion,  not onlyin poetry, depends on the use of analogiesakin to the example above.
Ortony (1975)has postulated three main functions whichmetaphors (as well as similes and analogies)serve in language; first, they al low one totransfer large amounts of information fromone domain to another without expl ic i t lyspel l ing out all the details; second, theyal low one to communicate the otherwiseinexpl icable;  and third, they often makedist inct ions more vivid by adding otherwisemissing perceptual  or emotional  content.His examples further support the generalthesis of large amounts of knowledge beingpotent ia l ly  attached to each word.
Forinstance.
(12) The thought sl ipped my mind like asquirrel  behind a tree.enables one to express the fact thatthoughts are sometimes elusive, quick,decept ively easy to catch, camoflaged, etc.and to say so in a very compact fashion.Such an idea cannot be stated direct ly since22we have no l iteral language for the behaviorof thought; to say that "the thought escapedme" is sti l l  to rely on a metaphor.Finally, analogies are useful forcreating or teaching new frames.
While theaccount below is invented, I have had anumber of such exchanges with my daughter.Adult: A veter inar ian is a doctor foranimals.Child: Does he give the animalslo l l ipops?
Does he use astethoscope?
etc.Clearly what is happening in such anexchange is that the child is creat ing a newframe for veterinarian, and is test ing tosee just how much can be transferred fromher doctor frame.
Questions often center onthings that are diff icult to imaginetransferr ing,  e.g., an animal eating alollipop.Relatio________nn t__go Current A_!IA number of pieces of research, thework on conceptual  dependency diagrams ofSchank et al(1973), Schank (1973), the workon bel ief  systems of Colby (1973), Abelson(1973) and McDermott (1974) as well as thea lready ment ioned work of Charniak (1972) inunderstanding chi ldren's stories andMinsky's (1974) work on frames, stand out asmost relevant to solving the kinds ofproblems I have presented.
In addit ion,Col l ins et al(1974) have invest igated theproblem of teaching geographical  concepts byuse of analogies.
I will, however, discussonly Schank's work in more detail  here.In Schank's schemes, verbs can havequite complex structures attached to them,which are not necessar i ly  closely related tothe syntact ic deep structure of thesentences in which they occur, but which arerelated to what I have called targetstructures.
For example, Schank representsthe sentence(13) John grew the corn with fert i l izer.as a conceptual  dependency diagram which Iread as something like(14)  John took fert i l izer  out of a bagand put it on the corn's ground,and this caused the corn to becomelarger.Clear ly the structure attached to thetransit ive verb rgf_q~ const i tutes a frame ofsorts, which could potent ia l ly  be used totransfer meaning to a new domain.
It is nottoo dif f icult  to imagine a program whichcould accept a sentence like(15) Rais ing cattle is like growingcorn, except that instead ofspreading fert i l izer,  one feeds thecatt le grain.and use its knowledge of rg_c_q~ to produce anew frame for raise (cattle).
Schank'ssystem can also draw inferences fromsentences, e.g, "The corn wil l  become ripe,,,"John probably wants to eat the corn," etc.IIIliIIIII!IIIIIIIIfrom sentence (13).Some key problems still have not beenaddressed, however.
First, the inferenceprocess does not know when to stopgenerating inferences, whereas I believepeople have quite stable and definite ideasabout how far inferences should be drawnfrom a sentence.
Second, as illustrated ina number of earlier examples, nouns (e.g.,physician) may have substantial amounts ofstructure attached to them.
In Schank'swork, only verbs are represented ~ bysubstantial structures.
Third, while Schankhas done work on piecing together sentenceswhich form a coherent and expected discourse(a process he calls knitting), he has not tomy knowledge worked on attempting to fittogether apparently unrelated follow-upsentences.
Indeed, without much moredetailed frames for words, I believe thatthere is no way to understand the moretenuous connections between ideas that wediscover routinely every day.AcknowledgementI would like to thank Andrew Ortony forsuggesting a number of the ideas in thispaper to me.REFERENCESAbelson, R.P., "The Structure of BeliefSystems," in Schank and Colby (eds.
),Computer Models of Thought and Language,W.H.
Freeman, San Francisco, 1973.Celce-Murcia, M., "Paradigms for SentenceRecognition," UCLA Dept.
of Lingustics,1972.Charniak, E., "Toward a Model ofStory Comprehension," MITAI-TR-266, 1972.Children'sAI LabColby, K.M., "Simulations of BeliefSystems," in Schank and Colby (eds.
),ComDuter Models of Thought a~d Language,W.H.
Freeman, San Francisco, 1973.Collins, A., Warnock, E.H., Aiello, N. andMiller, M.L., "Reasoning from IncompleteKnowledge," unpublished draft, BBN,Cambridge, MA, June 1974.Fillmore, C., "The Case for Case" in Bachand Harms (eds.
), Universals i__~nLingustic Theory, Holt, Rinehart andWinston, 1968.McDermott, D.V., "Assimilation of NewInformation by a NaturalLanguage-Understanding System," MIT AILab AI-TR-291, 1974.Minsky, M.L., "A Framework forKnowledge," MIT AI Lab1974.RepresentingMemo no.
306,Ortony, A., "Why Metaphors are Necessary andNot Just Nice," in Educational Theorv,Vol.
25, No.
I, Winter 1975.23Raphael, B., "SIR: a Program for SemanticInformation Retrieval," in Minsky (ed.
)Semantic Information Processing, MITPress, Cambridge, MA, 1968.Schank, R.C., Goldman, N., Rieger, C.J., andRiesbeck, C., "MARGIE: Memory, Analysis,Response Generation, and Inference onEnglish," Adv.
Papers of the 3IJCAI,Stanford Univ., 1973.Schank, R.C., "Identificaton ofConceptualizations Underlying NaturalLanguage," in Schank and Colby (ed.
),Computer Models of Thought and Language,W.H.
Freeman, San Francisco, 1973.Whorf, B.L., "Science and Lingustics (1940)"in Language, Thought and Reality, MITPress, Cambridge, MA, 1964.Woods, W.A., "What's in a Link: Foundationsfor Semantic Networks," in Bobrow andCollins, Representation andUnderstanding, New York: Academic Press,1975.
