THE CLOWNS MICROWORLD*Robert F. SimmonsDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of TexasABSTRACTAbout f ifteen years of active researchin natural language quest ion-answer ingsystems has provided reasonablyconcise and elegant formulations ofcomputat ional  semantics farunderstanding English sentences andquestions about various microworlds.These include the Woods Lunar DataBase, the Winograd world of a picturedhand and blocks, the Heidorn world ofa fueling station, the Hendrix,Slocum, Thompson world oftransactions, John Seely Brown's powercircuit and Schank's sketches ofmotivated humans.
(See Woods et al1972, Winograd 1972, Hendrix et al1973, Heidorn 1972, Schank 1975 andBrown et al1974.)
In each of theseworlds, a natural language processoris able to understand an ordinarysubset of Engl ish and use itconversat ional ly  to accept data and torespond to commands and questions.Ignoring early work largely lost in thearchives of corporate memos, Wino~rad'slanguage processor is essent ia l ly  a firstreport ing of how to map English sentencesinto diagrammatic pictures.
Apart frompotential  applications, the pictures are ofgreat value in providing a universal lyunderstood second language to demonstratethe system's interpretat ion of the Engl ishinput.
While we are stil l  struggl ing inearly stages of how to compute from Engl ishdescr ipt ions or instructions, there is muchto be gained from studying the subset ofEngl ish that is picturable.
Translat ion ofEngl ish into other more general languagessuch as predicate calculus, LISP, Russian,Basic Engish, Chinese, etc.
can provide thesame feedback as to the system'sinterpretat ion and must suff ice for theunpicturable set of English.
But forteaching purposes, computing pictures fromlanguage is an excellent instrument.We began with the notion that it shouldbe quite easy to construct a microworldconcerning a clown, a pedestal and a pole.The result ing system* could draw picturesfor such sentences as:A clown holding a pole balances on his headin a boat.A clown on his arm on a pedestal balances asmall clown on his head.Figure I shows examples of diagrams producedin response to these sentences.
*Supported in part by NSF Grant GJ509E*(see Simmons & Bennett -Novak 1975grammar and semantics of this system.
)for17We progressed then to sentencesconcerning movement by adding land, water, al ighthouse, a dock and a boat.
We were thenable to draw pictures such as Figure 2 torepresent the meanings of:A clown on his head sails a boat from thedock to the l ighthouse.In the context of graphics, twodimensional line drawings are attract ive intheir s impl ic ity of computation.
An objectis defined as a LOGO graphics program thatdraws it (see Papert 1971).
A scene is aset of objects related in terms of contactpoints.
A scene can be described by a setof predicates:(BOAT ABOVE WATER)(ATTACH BOATx?
WATER,y)(DOCK ABOVE WATER) (DOCK LEFTOF WATER)(BOAT RIGHTOF DOCK)(ATTACH DOCK~ WATERxy)(ATTACH BOATxy~ky DOCKxy )Or ientat ion functions for adjust ing start ingpoints and headings of the programs thatdraw the objects are required and theseimply some tr igonometr ic  functions.
A LISPpackage of about 650 lines has beendeveloped by Gordon Bennett-Novak to providethe picture making capabil ity.What is mainly relevant to thecomputat ion of language meanings is that asemantic structure suff ic ient to transmitdata to the drawing package is easi lyrepresented as a property list associatedwith an art i f ic ial  name for the scene.
Forexample, "A CLOWN ON A PEDESTAL" results inthe fol lowing structure:(CI, TOK CLOWN, SUPPORTBY C2, ATTACH(CIFEETXY C2 TOPXY))(C2, TOK PEDESTAL, SUPPORT CI, ATTACH(C2TOPXY CI FEETXY))(CLOWN, EXPR(LAMBDA().
.
. )
FEET XY, SIZE 3,STARTPT XY, HEADING A)(PEDESTAL, EXPR(LAMBDA() .
.
. )
TOP XY, SIZE 3,STARTPT XY, HEADING A)A larger scene has more objects, more attachrelations, and may include addit ionalrelat ions such as INSIDE, LEFTOF, RIGHTOF,etc.
In any case the scene is semant ical lyrepresented as a set of objects connected byrelat ions in a graph (i.e.
a semanticnetwork) that can easi ly be stored asobjects on a property list with relat ionalattr ibutes that connect them to other suchobjects.A small grammar rich in embeddingcapabi l i t ies is coded in Woods" form ofAugmented Transit ion Net (Woods 1970) for aset of ATN functions to interpret.
As eachconstituent is completed the operat ionsunder the grammar arcs create portions ofproperty list structure.
When a clause iscompleted, semantic routines associated withverbs and preposit ions sort the variousSubject Object and Complement const ituentsinto semantic roles and connect them bysemantic relations.
A verb of motioncreates a net of relat ions that are valid inall t imeframes and in addit ion encodes aprocess model that changes the semantic netfrom one timeframe to another.Nouns such as "clown", "l ighthouse","water", etc.
are programs that constructimages on a display screen.
Other nounssuch as "top", "edge", "side" etc aredefined as functions that return contactpoints for the pictures.
Adjectives andadverbs provide data on size and angles ofsupport.
Preposit ions and verbs are definedas semantic functions that expl icate spatialrelat ions among noun images.
Generally, averb produces a process model that encodes aseries of scenes that represent initial,intermediate and final displays of thechanges the verb describes.The system is programmed in UTLISP forCDC equipment and uses an IMLAC displaysystem.
It current ly occupies 32K words ofcore and requires less than a second totranslate a sentence into a picture.DISCUSSIONNouns such as "circus", "party","ballgame" etc.
have not yet beenattempted.
They imply part ia l ly orderedsets of process models and are the mostexcit ing next step in this research.
Morecomplex verbs like "return" or "make aroundtr ip" imply a sequence of interact ingprocess models.
Thus, "a clown sailed fromthe l ighthouse to the dock and returned bybus" offers interest ing problems indiscover ing the arguments for MOVE*-returnas well as in the design of a higher levelprocess model whose intermediate condit ionsinclude the models of MOVE*-sai l  andMOVE*-return.As it stands, the CLOWNS system hasserved as a vehicle for developing andexpressing our ideas of how to construct at ight ly integrated language processingsystem that provides a clearcut syntacticstage with coordinate semantic processingintroduced to reduce ambiguity.
Two stagesof semantic processing are apparent; thefirst is the use of preposit ions and verbsto make explicit the geometric relat ions of"support", "leftof", etc.
among the objectssymbol ized by the nouns; the second is thet ransformat ion of these geometric relat ionsinto connected sets of x-y coordinates thatcan be displayed as a scene.
Schank'snotion of primit ive actions is ref lected inour approach to programming high level verbssuch as MOVE* to encompass the idea ofmotion carried in verbs such as "sail","ride", etc.
Woods" ATN approach tosyntact ic analysis is central to this systemand in sharp contrast to the approach ofSchank and Riesbeck who attempt to minimizeformal syntactic processing.
Our processmodel ref lects the ideas developed byHendrix (1974) in his development of a18Ilogical structure for Engl ish semantics.The system is not l imited to its Ipresent grammar nor to its present I vocabulary of images.
Picture programs toconstruct addit ional  objects are easi lyconstructed and the semantic routines for Jaddit ional  verbs and preposit ions can be I defined for the system with relative ease.The system has been used successfu l ly  mto communicate methods for natural language ,~computaton to graduate students and to mundergraduates.
It appears to haveimmediate possibi l i t ies for teaching thestructure of English, for teaching precision ;~of Engish expression, and for teachng | foreign languages through pictures.Eventual ly  it may be useful in conjunct ionwith very good graphic systems for ~mgenerat ing animated i l lustrat ions for ?p icturable text.
gIn my mind CLOWNS shows the power andvalue of the microworld approach to thestudy of Art i f ic ia l  Intel l igence.
By I narrowing one's focus to a tiny world thatcan be completely described, one can definea subset of Engl ish in great depth.
This isin contrast to the study of text where the I situat ions descr ibed are so complex as to forbid exhaust ive analysis.
The translat ioninto a v isual ized microworld provides animmediate display in a two-dimensional  jlanguage of the interpretat ions dictated by I the syntactic and semantic systems and thusa scient i f ic  measur ing  instrument for theaccuracy of the interpretat ion.I Although there is potential  for expansion of the system into the world ofuseful appl icat ions, I believe the primaryvalue of this experiment with the CLOWNS ,world is to show that there exist order ly I and stra ightforward ways of economical lycomputing translat ions from subsets ofEngl ish to procedures that do useful Work.This is not a new f inding but I believe the ?implementat ion is cons iderably  simpler than imost previous ones.REFERENCES IBrown, Burton, R.R.
& Bell, A.G., "SOPHIE:A Sophist icated Instruct ional  Environmentfor Teaching Electronic Troubleshoot ing",  I BBN Report # 2790, Apri l  1974.Heidorn, George E., "Natural Language Inputs 4to a Simulat ion Programming System,"NPS-55HD, Naval Post Graduate School, |Monterey, Calif. 1972.Hendrix, G., "Prel iminary Constructs for the iMathematical  Model ing of Engl ish I Meanings."
Univers i ty  of Texas,Department of Computer Sciences, WorkingDraft, Apri l  1974.
(not fordistr ibut ion) IHendrix, G.G., Thompson, Craig and Slocum,Jonathan.
"Language Processing viaCanonical  Verbs and Semantic Models."
imProc.
3rd Int.
Jt.
Conference o__nn I Art i f ic ia l  Intel l igence, StanfordIUniversity, Menlo Park, Calif., 1973.Papert, S., "Teaching Children to beMathematicians vs.
Teaching AboutMathematics."
Int.
J.
Math.
Educ.
i__nnScience & Tech., New York: Wiley & Sons,1972; MIT, A.I.
Memo.
No.
249, July1971.Schank, Roger, ConceptualProcessing, North-HollandCompany 1975 (In Press).InformationPublishingSimmons, R.F.
and Bennett-Novak, G.,"Semantically Analyzing an English Subsetfor the Clowns Microworld", Dept.
Comp.Sci.
Univ.
Texas, Austin, 1975.Winograd, Terry, Understanding NaturalLanguage, New York: Academic Press, 1972.Woods, W.A., Kaplan, R.A., & Nash-Webber,B., "The Lunar Sciences Natural LanguageInformation System: Final Report: BBNReport # 2378, June, 1972, Bolt Beranekand Newman Inc., Cambridge, MA.Woods, Wm.
A., "Transition Network Grammarsfor Natural Language Analysis," Comm.ACM, 13, Oct.
1970."
~i J qFigure 2.
A Motion VerbFigure i.
State Verbs 19
