THE TROUBLE WITH MEMORY DISTINCTIONSAllan Coll insBolt Beranek & NewmanCambridge, Mass.
02138People have an enormous variety ofknowledge: for example, there is phonemic,prosodic, syntactic, lexical, semantic, andpragmatic knowledge; there is knowledgeabout sights, sounds, smells, tastes,feelings, motions, and emotions; there iscausal, inferential,  procedural,experiential ,  heuristic, and socialknowledge, etc.
Between these differentforms of knowledge some make one set ofdist inctions, others make another set ofdist inctions, and there doesn't seem to beany good way to decide who is right.Tulving (1972), for example, has made adist inct ion between episodic and semanticmemory, which psychologists have f locked toinvestigate.
But Schank (1975) takes issuewith Tulving's dist inction, preferr ing totreat both episodic and semantic memory aspart of a conceptual  memory, which hedist inguishes from lexical memory.
BothTulving's and Schank's dist inct ions recurthroughout history, though with differentlabels, and are symptomatic of the problemof descr ib ing the global organizat ion ofmemory.
I would like to treat them asspecial cases of the more general problem ofdeciding to what extent different memorystructures are needed for dif ferent types ofknowledge.What I understand Tulving to beproposing is that there is an episodicmemory, as dist inct from semantic memory,which consists of a t ime-l ine interpretat ionof one's experiences.
Semantic memory canbe viewed as a conceptual  memory, dist inctfrom lexical memory so there need be noquarrel with Schank there.
In such a schemeconcepts in episodic memory must be l inkedto concepts in semantic memory; presumablyto all the concepts that are processed inthe course of understanding one'sexperience.Tulving's episodic memory is very muchakin to Penf ie ld's  (1954) notion about anexper ient ia l  record or Winograd's (1972)event memory, which consisted of a goalstack used to answer "Why" and "How"questions.
In the case of Winograd therewas also a semantic memory which containedgeneral information about the Blocks World,and a visual memory of sorts in the visualscene he could display and manipulate.The Winograd example points up thebenefits of separate memory structures.Because the event memory is organizedtemporal ly  according to goals and subgoals,it is well structured to access informationand make inferences about the relat ionsbetween events.
S imi lar ly a visual scene iswell structured to deal with spatialrelat ions between objects, and a semanticmemory is  wel l -s t ructured to deal withproperty relat ions between concepts.52The object ion Schank has to thedist inct ion between episodic (or event)memory and semantic (or conceptual) memoryis that much of people's general worldknowledge that would presumably be insemantic memory (for .example, knowledgeabout going camping) is temporal or episodicin structure.
So why postulate a separatememory structure to represent it?
A str ik ingexample is knowledge about history, which isgeneral knowledge in the form of a t ime-l inethat does not involve one's personalexperience.
The point is that anyrepresentat ion of semantic or conceptualmemory must have high- level  concepts such asgoing camping or the Civil War.
Theseconcepts must include temporal structure ofgoals and subgoals of the varioussubconcepts (such as the Western Campaign inthe Civil War) that comprise them.
Thus thedist inct ion that Tulving was trying to makecan not be based on temporal structure.Tulving also points out a secondimportant aspect of episodic memory: that itrelates events that occur to thec i rcumstances in which they occur.
If onehears a speech such as Nixon's res ignat ionspeech, events that occur in understandingthe speech are related to the physicalc i rcumstances at the time (aspects of themedium and what the l istener is doings imultaneously)  as well as a personalevaluat ion of the source (Ortony 1975).
Theknowledge in semantic memory on this view isabstracted from the context in which it islearned.
For example, the personal aspectsof the time line in an episodic memory donot carry over to the time line of history.If you read about the civil war, you mayremember that you read about Bull Run onsome specif ic  page, but that information ispart of the episodic time line and not theabstract histor ical  time line.
Episodicmemory then is where our knowledge aboutexper ient ia l  context is stored.Here again through an argument similarto Schank's argument with respect totemporal  structure can be made.
That is tosay it is Just as important to be able torepresent s imultaneous context in ourgeneral world knowledge as it is in ourexper ient ia l  knowledge.
In a representat ionof the Civil  War, for example, we might wantto relate what was happening in the WesternCampaign to what was happening aroundWashington, and to L incoln's feel ings andevaluat ions about successive generals whodidn't capture Richmond, etc.
There isnothing special  about represent ings imultaneous context that is pecul iar toone's personal t ime-l ine of experience.There are simply no structural  grounds onwhich you can dist inguish semantic memoryand episodic memory.In summary, people must have memorystructure that preserves the time line ofpersonal exper ience and its context, as wellas structure that is abstracted fromexperience.
In the brain these two kinds ofstructure may even be anatomical ly  distinct.But Schank is correct in that all the powerfor represent ing temporal structure ands imultaneous context must be avai lable inIiIIIlIiIIIIIiIIiIboth kinds of memory.
This means you can'ttell episodic memory from semantic memory byhow the information is organized.
But noone, not even Schank, is brave enough togive up the dist inct ion completely.Knowledge is abstracted from experience to agreater or lesser extent, and it is in thecards that a dist inct ion between abstractand experient ial  knowledge will keep turningup in one form or another.
But thedist inct ion is one of content, not ofstructure.The next question is whether Schank'sdist inct ion between lexical memory andconceptual memory is made of any sturdierstuff?
It is based on the age olddist inct ion between words and concepts, butraises it to a dist inct ion between two typesof memory.
I too (Collins & Loftus, inpress) am guilty of making the samedist inct ion to account for Loftus's data(Grober & Loftus, 1974, Loftus & Cole, 1974)that response time to name objects in acategory, behaves di f ferent ly when given aletter descriptor than when given anadjective descriptor.
So the dist inct ionbetween these two types of memory at leasthas some experimental  support.
But thetrouble is that the dist inct ion melts awayin just about the same way as thedist inct ion between episodic and semanticmemory, when you look at hard cases.Brown and McNiel l 's  (1966) study of thetip of the tongue phenomenon showed thatwhen a person can't recall a word like"sextant," but thinks he knows what the wordis, he at least can tell you properties ofthe word (e.g.
that it starts with "s," andends with "ant/d," sounds like "secant").It seems that the person is searching hislexical memory for the word, and that theinformation he gives about the word ref lectsthe structure of the memory he uses toaccess the word.
The lexical memory must besomething like a network (or space) withwords as nodes and ordered phonemes asproperties.In contrast consider a concept like thebarking of dogs.
The concept of barkingmust of course include what we might callsemantic or proposit ional  propert ies (e.g.what causes a dog to bark, that barking isone kind of noise a dog makes).
But a partof the concept must specify the propertiesof what barking sounds like.
(Actually onemust have a range of sounds that barkingsounds like.)
What we have then is orderedsounds, not unlike phonemes.
So theconceptual memory must have the same powerfor sensory representat ion as the lexicalmemory.Simi lar ly the lexical memory must havethe same power for represent ingproposit ional  information as the conceptualmemory.
For example, people must be able torepresent that the word sextant has sevenletters, two syllables, etc.
in lexicalmemory.
In these terms words turn out to bea special kind of concept.
So if words andconcepts must be closely interconnected andmust have the same power of representation,why should they be considered to be in53separate memories?
Again the dist inct ion isbased on content (words vs. concepts )rather than on structure.My suspicion is that if you squeeze anydist inct ion between two types of knowledgehard enough, you will find that theimportant structural const ituents are commonto both (as was temporal structure toepisodic and semantic memory).
This doesnot negate the distinction; it only meansthat our knowledge is cut into differentshapes from the same cloth.
The same thinghappens in the domain of l iving things: whenyou press the dist inct ion between plants andanimals with hard cases like plankton, thedist inct ion breaks down.Part of the task of descr ibing theorganizat ion of memory is to define thedist inct ions that are important and how theyare interrelated i.e., to draw theorganizat ional  chart for human knowledge.Another part of the task is to define thestructural  elements that different memoriesshare, and the structural differences, ifthere are any, that the dist inct ions arebased on.
The trouble with trying to drawthe organizat ional  chart for human memory isthat it does not appear to have any overallorganiz ing principle, such as evolution,that would produce a clear organizat ionalstructure.
But then perhaps we are onlywait ing for our Darwin to come.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI would like to thank Mark Mil ler forhis comments on a draft of this paper.
Thiswork was supported by a grant from the JohnSimon Guggenheim Fouundation.REFERENCES\[I\] Brown, R.W.
and McNeill, D., The "tipof the tongue" phenomenon, Journal o__ffVerb~l Learning and Verbal Behavior,1966, 5, 325-337.\[2\] Collins, A.M.& Loftus, E.F., "Aspreading act ivat ion theory of semanticprocessing."
~ Review, inpress.\[3\] Grober, E.& Loftus, E.F., "Semanticmemory: searching for attr ibutes versussearching for names.
Memory andCognition, 1974, 2, 413-416.\[4\] Loftus, E.F.& Cole, W., "Retr ievingattr ibute and name information fromsemantic memory.
Journal ofPsychology, 1974, 102,1116-1122.\[5\] Ortony, A., "How episodic is semanticmemory?
Proceeding of the Conference onIssues i__nn Natural  LanguageProcessing, 1975.\[6\] Penfield, W., "The permanent record ofthe stream of consciousness,,, Proc.14th Int.
Congr.
Psychol.,  MontrealNeurologica l  Inst., Rep. No.
486.\[7\] Schank, R.C., "The structure of episodesin memory".
In D.G.
Bobrow & A.M.Collins (Eds.)
Representation andUnderstanding.
New York: AcademicPress, 1975.\[8\] Tulving, E., "Episodic and semanticmemory".
In E. Tulving & W.
Donaldson(Eds.)
Organization of Memory.
NewYork: Academic Press, 1972.\[9\] Winograd, T. Understanding NaturalLanguage.
New York: Academic Press,1972.54!!!i!l!
!
