BOUND VARIABLES ANDOTHER ANAPHORSBarbara H. ParteeUniv.
of Mass., AmherstWhen a noun phrase or a pronoun occurs in a sen-tence, i t  is frequently appropriate to ask whatentity i t  refers to, but i t  is well known thatnot all uses of noun phrases and pronouns arereferential in this simple sense.
In computation-al approaches to language processing, I believethe main thrust in this area has been towardunderstanding those referential uses of NP'sand pronouns which require the use of both linguis-t ic and non-linguistic inferences to determinethe most plausible referent for the expression.My emphasis in this paper will be somewhat dif-ferent.
I believe that recent work by linguists,logicians, and philosophers is leading to con-vergence on the view that there are two fundamen-tal ly distinct uses of pronouns which have to betreated quite separately: ( i) a use that corres-ponds to the logician's use of bound variables,and ( i i )  a use which I will call, for want of"abetter name, a pragmatic use.
I t  can be arguedthat bound variable pronouns are restricted tooccurrences in syntactic construction with theirantecedents, and are ful ly  interpreted at thelevel of semantics, while pragmatic pronounsneed not have l inguistic antecedents at a l l ,  andrequire pragmatics as well as semantics for theirinterpretation.I.
The basic distinction.The clearest cases of bound variable anaphorainvolve antecedents like every man and no manwhich are singular in form but do not refer toindividuals, as in (1) and (2).
(1) Every man put a screen in front of him.
(2) No child will admit that heis  sleepy.When the he of (2) is understood as anaphoricallyrelated to the noun phrase no child, the heclearly does not refer to a particular in~vidual.Rather, the sentence can be understood as theresult of binding an open sentence, (3), witha quantifier phrase, no child.
(3) He 0 wil l  admit that he 0 is sleepy.
( I t  is i~ater ia l  for the purposes of this paperwhether we view the process in question as a gen-erative one, as in Montague (1973) or Lakoff (1971),or as an interpretive one, as in Jackendoff (1972)or the I-grammar Montague variant of Cooper andParsons (1976).
The use of subscripted pronouns79rather than ~'s and ~'s follows Montague's practi-ce,,but that distinction is also immaterial here.
)The semantics of variable binding is well studiedin logic; a particularly clear and brief accountcan be found in Quine (1970).
The crucial pointhere is that the semantics involves considerationof a whole range of possible values for the vari-ables, not the determination of any single valueor referent.
Equally crucial is that the inter-pretation of (2) involves an open sentence withtwo occurrences of the free variable h_~e, onein the position of the antecedent noun ~hrase,the other corresponding to the surface pronoun.Using these clear cases, we can discover strongsyntactic constraints on the occurrence of boundvariable pronouns.
With few exceptions, i t  appearsthat bound variables must be in construction withtheir antecedents (the observation is made byEvans (1977); the notion "in construction with"comes from Klima (1964): a constituent A is inconstruction with a constituent B i f  and only i fA is dominated by the f i r s t  branching node whichdominates B.
The term c-command is a more recentalternative name for the same notion.)
Thus thefollowing do not permit a bound variable reading:(4) (a) Every man walked out.
He slammed the door.
(b) John loves every woman, and he hopes todate her soon.
(c) I f  no student cheats on the exam, he wil lpass the course.By contrast, the bound variable reading is permit-ted in cases like (1) and (2) above, in whichthe pronoun is in construction with its antecedent.The clearest cases of what I am calling pragmaticuses of pronouns are cases where a pronoun is usedwith no l inguistic antecedent at a l l ,  as in (5),or where the antecedent occurs in an earlier sen-tence of a discourse, as in (6).
(5) (On walking into a room) Why is he \[point-ing\] here?
(6) I couldn't reach El l iot  last night.
Heis probably in Boston.These are cases where the pronoun is being usedto refer to a particular individual, and the det-ermination of which individual the intended refer-ent is requires making use of the l inguistic andnon-linguistic context.
Ignoring some complica-ted cases that I wil l  discuss later, we may saythat at the level of purely l inguistic description,such pronouns function like free variables whichare not bound at all at the semantic level.
Asentence containing one expresses a determinateproposition only relative to a particular choiceof value for the variable, much as a sentence con-taining the word now expresses a determinateproposition only relative to a particular timeof evaluation.
Such choices depend on the contextof use of the sentence, which is why I call thisa pragmatic use of pronouns.I believe that there are no absolute rules govern-ing the choice of referent for pragmatic uses ofpronouns, but that there are discoverable strategiesand principles governing the relative likelihood oror preference among choices.
The other partici-pants in this panel know much more than I do aboutwhat those principles and strategies are; I hopethey would agree that the output of such princi-ples is a probable or expected referent ratherthan an absolute referent for the pronoun.
Forexample, in most contexts, the probable referentof the he in (6) is E l l iot ;  but one can easilyenough im---agine a context where speaker and hearerare most interested in figuring out where Max is,and being unable to reach El l iot  is a good clueto Max's being in Boston; then he may be intendedand understood as referring to Max.
What mattersmost seems to be the salience and relevance of aparticular individual, and I see no reason to drawany theoretical line between cases where thatsalience comes from the l inguistic context asopposed to the non-linguistic context.Where I do want to draw a sharp line is betweenthe bound variable use and the pragmatic use ofpronouns.
The bound variable use is best des-cribed at the level of syntactic form and seman-t ic interpretation of single sentences, and therelevant question is not what the pronoun refersto, but what quantifier phrase is binding i t .The pragmatic use is best described at the prag-matic level, where the ful l  context of the sen-tence in use is considered; on the syntactic level,these pronouns are really no different from pro-per names, and at the semantic level, they can beviewed as free variables or as dummy names.2.
Structurally ambiguous pronouns.I have begun with the clearest examples of thedistinction; i f  all uses of pronouns fe l l  unam-biguously into these two categories, I couldstop here.
All the rest would be a matter ofimproving the description of the syntactic con-straints on bound variable anaphora and unravel-ling the processing mechanisms that we use todetermine the referents of the pragmatic uses ofpronouns.
But the clear cases do not provide aset of necessary and sufficient conditions fortel l ing the two kinds of pronouns apart.
All wecan conclude so far by way of conditions is thefollowing:(i) A pronoun can function as a bound variableonly i f  i t  i~ in the same sentence as itsantecedent.
'-j( i i )  Any pronoun can be used pragmatically.
2-jI f  these are the only conditions, we would expectmany occurrences of pronouns to be ambiguous asto which use they have, and indeed many are.
Thepronouns in (1) and (2) are ambiguous in this way,and the sentences have sharply different inter-pretations in the two cases.
But now consider asentence like (7):(7) The prosecutor believed that hewould winthe case.This example can be analyzed either way; i f  thepronoun is analyzed as a bound variable, thesentence is interpreted as in (7a), and i f  thepronoun is treated pragmatically, we can repre-sent i t  as in (7b).80(7a) (The prosecutor: hen) \[He 0 believed that he 0would win the cas~.\](7b) The prosecutor believed that he 5 would win thecase.On the pragmatic pronoun reading, the free variable~ee will be interpreted as some salient individualermined by the context; and one likely choicewill be the prosecutor.
This looks at f i rs t  as i fwe are predicting an ambiguity where there is none.And this is not just an isolated example, sincethe same situation will arise whenever we have anantecedent noun phrase that picks out a particularindividual.
But i t  turns out that there is strik-ing evidence that this is a real structural ambigu-ity,  and not just an artifact of the analysis.
Ibelieve that Keenan (1971) was the f i rs t  to pointthis out; Sag (1976) and Williams (1977) discusssuch cases extensively.
The evidence comes fromverb phrase deletion, and involves examples likethe following:(8) The prosecutor believed that he would win thecase, and so did the defense attorney.The missing verb phrase can be understood in justtwo ways, corresponding to the two structures wehave posited for the f i rs t  clause.
On each read-ing, sentence (8) predicates the same property ofthe defense attorney as i t  predicates of the pro-secutor: either the property of being an x suchthat x believed that x would win the case ~thebound-variable reading), or the property of beingan x such that x believes that h_~ 5 (the prosecutor)wouTd3~in the case (the pragmatic pronoun read-ing).
~J Thus the examples of so-called "sloppyidentity" (Ross 1967) of pronouns are really exam-ples of str ict  semantic identity of predicates.This important generalization can be capturedonly by recognizing that apparently unambiguoussentences like (7) are in fact structurally ambi-guous.Cases with proper names as antecedents to pronounswork just like (7) and (8); the unified treatmentof all noun phrases, including proper names, asquantifier phrases proposed by Montague (1973)is an important aid in permitting the treatmentof pronouns advocated here.Another major source of pronoun ambiguity is thesystematic ambiguity of most plural noun phrasesas between a "group" reading and an "individual"reading, as in (9).
(9) Three men lifted the piano.When the plural pronoun they is used as a pragma-tic pronoun, i t  always refers to a group; but wheni t  is used as a bound variable, i t  may be eithera variable over individuals or a variable overgroups.
Thus we get two bound variable readingsplus a pragmatic pronoun reading for (lO).
(lO) The Democrats voted for their wives.On the group-level bound variable reading, theDemocrats as a group voted for their wives as agroup.
On the individual-level bound variablereading, each of the Democrats voted for his ownwife.
On the pragmatic pronoun reading, theDemocrats4-/voted for some group's wives; that groupmight be the Democrats themselves, but might besome other group determined by the context.
Againthe three readings lead to corresponding readingsin sentences with verb-phrase deletion:( l l )  The Democrats voted for their wives beforethe Republicans did.I will not enumerate the readings, but i t  can beseen that the positing of the three structuresfor the f i rs t  clause plus the requirement hatverb phrase deletion be interpreted as semanticidentity of predication makes the correct predic-tions about the possible interpretations of thefull sentence.Yet another source of structural ambiguity is thefact that noun phrases may have other noun phrasesembedded within them, and a pronoun may have eitherthe whole noun phrase or a subpart as antecedent.Sentences (12a) and (12b) do not have this parti-cular ambiguity because of the number difference,but (13) is ambiguous as between (13a) and (13b).
(12)(13)(a) One of the prisoners believed that shecould escape.
(b) One of the prisoners believed that theycould escape.~Two of the prisoners believed that they couldescape.
(a) Two of the prisoners believed that theycould escape.
(b) Two of the prisoners believed that theycould escape.Each of these sentences is ambiguous between abound variable use and a pragmatic use of thepronoun; and sentence (13a) permits either theindividual-level bound variable reading (each ofthe two believed she could escape) or the group-level reading (both believed that both could escape).However, (13b) on the bound variable reading mustbe a group-level pronoun, because the antecedent isin a partitive construction, which requires a group-denoting noun phrase.
A fuller discussion of plu-ral noun phrases and bound variable pronouns canbe found in Bennett (1974), although Bennettdoes not specifically discuss the pragmatic usesof pronouns.
No new principles of pronoun inter-pretation are needed for these cases beyond theimportant observation that they can function sem-antically as an individual-level pronoun, that is,just like a singular pronoun.
The complexitiesof these examples result simply fron the jointinteraction of several individually simple pheno-mena: bound variable vs. pragmatic uses of pronouns,individual vs. group readings of plurals, and thepossibility of either a whole noun phrase or asubpart of i t  serving as antecedent for a pronoun.The examples discussed so far are summarized andextended in Table I below.
The column headed"Pragmatic Pronoun" should be understood as follows:the given pronoun can be interpreted as referringto an individual or group determinable on the basisof the interpretation of the given "antecedent" asthe relevant linguistic context.
Thus, for example,while every man does not refer to the group of allman, i t  can promote that group into salience, ascan no man and no men.81(14) No students came to the party.
They thoughtthey weren't invited.6_6/TABLE IAntecedent  Bound Var iable Pronoun Pra /~at ic  Pronounevery ~ he ~he, CK they (group)no ~an he  ehe ,  O~ they  (~'oup)the  man he heJohn  he heone man he  he~ore than ~e man he ehe, OK they (gZ'Oup)at most one man he *th ree  men they ( ind) t  they (group) they (group)one o f  the  men he heone  o?
L~J~o~ th  .... they (=o~p) they (grip)t'~o Of the  men they  ( ind) ,  they  (g roup)  they  (group)no men they (ind) they (gx'oup)J ohn  and B i~ they  ( ind) ,  they (~A-oup) they (group) ,,John o~ B~ he they  (grOUp) ?~/3.
Are there "pronouns of laziness"?Both traditional grammar books and early transfor-mational accounts such as Lees and Klima (1963)suggest a treatment of pronouns different fromeither of the two I have described.
This is theview that a pronoun is a substitute for a linguis-t ical ly identical nounphrase;(15b) would on thisview be derived from (15a).
(15) (a) John spoke to Mary when John walked in.=~(b) John spoke to Mary when he walked in.But such a view requires that semantic interpreta-tion operate on surface structure, since the appli-cation of the rule changes the meaning wheneverthe repeated noun phrase is anything other than aproper noun or a definite description.
(16) (a) John lost a watch and Bill found awatch =~(b) John lost a watch and Bil l  found i t .Given that pragmatic pronouns must be generateddirectly anyway because of cases where there is nolinguistic antecedent, there is then no work leftfor such a transformation to do; i t  simplifiesneither the syntax nor the semantics.
Hence i thas been abandoned by linguists of just aboutevery theoretical persuasion.But there are some cases that look as though theymight be better handled via a syntactic substi-tution rule than by either the bound variableor the pragmatic treatment.
One class was intro-duced by Geach (1962), who provides exampleslike (17):(17) Every man who owns a donkey beats i t .On the defensible assumption that ~ shouldbe analyzed here as an existential quantifierphrase having narrower scope than the every, thisi t  cannot be analyzed as a bound variable (seePa---rtee 1975a).
But i t  also does not refer to anyspecific donkey, and so does not appear to befunctioning as a pragmatic pronoun.
Geach suggeststhat a sentence like (17) be analyzed in terms of(18):(18) Every man who owns a donkey beats the donkeyhe owns.Thus the i t  is viewed as standing for a descrip-tion reco~rable in a complex way from the in i t ia lpart of the sentence.
Geach may or may not havecalled this an example of a "pronoun of laziness";the term is his, but i t  has been used by him andothers in a variety of ways.
What all uses ofthe term have in common is the idea that somep~onouns should be analyzed neither as bound vari-ables nor as directly referential, but in termsof some syntactically definable relation tO anantecedent noun phrase.Another example for which a "pronoun of laziness"treatment has plausibil ity is (19), from Karttunen(Ig6g):(19) The man who gives his paycheck to his wifeis wiser than the man who gives i t  to hismistress.This i t  is also not a bound variable nor directlyrefer~t ia l ;  i t  seems to be a substitute for theexpression his p~check.
In both Partee (1970)and Partee (1975b).I argued for the existence ofa syntacticpronoun-of-laziness rule, intended tocover both these examples and those cases of whatI am now calling pragmatic pronouns in which theantecedent is i tsel f  a directly referring expres-sion such as a proper noun or a definite descrip-tion.
However, neither I nor anyone else thatI know of ever succeeded in stating a version ofthe rule which covered all of these cases withoutgenerating clearly unacceptable results as well.Recent arguments by Terry Parsons (personal commun-ication), Robin Cooper (forthcoming), Gareth Evans(1977), Emmon Bach (personal communication), andothers have convinced me that there is no way tomake the notion of "pronoun of laziness" coherentwithout reducing i t  to one which covers only asmall subclass of the pragmatic pronouns and hencedoes no useful work.What then can we say about the paycheck sentencesand the donkey sentences?
Many lines of attackare being explored currently; one that I findparticularly promising is proposed by Cooper (forth-coming), who suggests a rather natural extensionof the notion of pragmatic pronoun to handle them.Before describing his proposal, I need to f i l lin some background.Russell's analysis of singular definite descrip-tions (Russell 1905) requires that there be aunique object satisfying the description in orderfor the expression to denote anything, and hencenotoriously fails to account for the successfulreference of a noun phrase like the clock in (20).
(20) Did you wind the clock?That the missing ingredient is pragmatic has longbeen recognized; Cooper (forthcoming) proposes amechanism that brings in pragmatics in a simpleway that parallels the account of pragmatic pro-nouns given above (which is also basically Cooper's).He proposes for definite descriptions a semanticinterpretation like Russell's but with the addi-tion of a free property variable P: the clockthen denotes (the property set of) the uniqueindividual ~ such that clock(x_) and P(~).
At the82semantic level, P is just a free variable; i t  isleft  to the pragmatic interpretation of the sen-tence in context to determine an appropriatechoice for P. In a context where there is no sal-ient distinguishing property, the singular defin-ite description would indeed be inappropriate oruninterpretable.
Cooper's treatment can be seenas a formalization of the informal gloss of the(by Katz and others) as "contextually de f in i~ .As a second background step toward Cooper's pro-posal, consider the interpretation of genitivephrases like that in (21).
(21) John's team lost again.As is well known, John's team may be the team Johnowns, or plays for, or roots for, or collectstrading cards of, or writes news stories about;there are virtual ly no limits on the relevantrelation.
I propose that such constructions beanalyzed at the semantic level as definite descrip-tions containing a free relation variable R,whose value is to be determined at the pragmaticlevel, by looking for an appropriately salientand relevant relation in the l inguistic or non-l inguistic context.
Thus John's team would beinterpreted as (22):(22) the x such that team (x) and R (John, x).What is  common to these analyses of pragmatic pro-nouns, definite descriptions, and genitive con-structions is the use of semantic free variablesthat are pragmatically assigned particular values.Introducing the free variables allows a completespecification of the form of the interpretationto be given for each sentence at the semanticlevel, while providing an appropriate divisionof labor between semantics and pragmatics inthe determination of the content.Cooper's proposal for the donkey and p~ychecksentences is that pronouns can be analyzed notonly as free variables, but alternatively asexpressions composed of more than one freevariable, ut i l iz ing free property or relationvariables much as in the examples just discus-sed.
The logical formalism is complex, but I willgive i t  for completeness and then try to paraphrasei t  less formally.
A singular pronoun (he, she,or i_t_t) may have any translation of the follow-ing form:(23) ~K~x ~y \[\[v~\] (y)__--- y = x\] A K (x)\],where ~ is a property-denoting expres-sion containing only free variables andparentheses.What this says is that e.g.
i__tt ma~v be interpretedas (the property set of ) the unique individualx which has property x .
For the paycheck exam-ple, an appropriate ~ will be R (u), where R isa free relation variable and u is a free indivi-dual variable that wil l  be bound by the secondoccurrence of the man.
The second clause of (19)will then say ~ n  u such that u gives the xsuch that R (x,u) to u's mistress."
The pragmati-cally appropriate R wil l  be "being the paycheckof".
The computational complexity of the analysisis just i f ied,  I believe, by the fact that onlyvery salient relations permit the kind of pronounuse evidenced by the paycheck example.Cooper's analysis of the donkey sentences uses theidentical device; for details see Cooper (forth-coming).The conclusion of this section is that there areno pronouns of laziness; the cases which seemedto require them can be handled by an extensionof the notion of pragmatic pronouns.
The exten-sion is somewhat complex, but (a) i t  makes useof the same kind of property and relation vari-ables that are needed for an account of definitenoun phrases and genitive constructions, and (b)the examples i t  is needed for are intuit ivelycomplex and infrequent in occurrence.4.
Conclusion.There are many problems of pronouns and referencethat I have not touched on.
I have not discussedreflexive pronouns, f i r s t  and second person pro-nouns, pronouns in modal contexts, the pro-common noun one, anaphoric determiners like same,different, or other, or any of a host of othertopics crucial to a fu l ler  account of the roleof pronouns in reference.
In some cases theproblem is just lack of space and time, but inother cases there are s t i l l  d i f f icu l t  open prob-lems.
I hope that some of what I have includedis relatively unfamiliar and potentially usefulfor computational anguage processing endeavors,and I count on my fellow panelists to f i l l  insome of the holes I have left .83FootnotesI.
There are apparent exceptions to even this weaka statement, but I believe they are best under-stood as involving el l ipt ical  sentences.
Considerthe following example (from David Kaplan, personalcommunication):A: Could a woman become chairman of the Phil-osophy Department?B: Yes, i f  she's qualified.The she in the second sentence is not a pragmaticpronoun; but I think i t  is best treated as boundby an unexpressed antecedent within the secondsentence, which is not as i t  stands a completesentence, rather than as bound by an antecedentin the previous sentence.2.
There are exceptions to this statement, too,but they all involve idiomatic pronoun-containingexpressions like "shrugged his shoulders" or "losthis cool".
Reflexive pronouns are not includedin this generalization; they are almost invariablybound variable pronouns, except for certain casesthat seem to result from instabi l i ty in the choiceof nominative or accusative form.
I wil l  notgo into any details about reflexive pronouns here.3.
On the pragmatic pronoun reading, the pronounhe can of course refer to someone other than theprosecutor; in that case the missing verb phrasewil l  always be understood as involving referenceto the same third person.4.
There is s t i l l  an individual/group ambiguityfor the subject in this case, but i t  does notaffect the interpretation of the pronoun, so Iwil l  ignore i t .5.
For simplicity I am ignoring the dialect thatallows tht.hejcwith a singular antecedent; in thatdialect (12b) is as ambiguous as (13).6.
Not every occurrence of a quantifier phrasewith no has this effect, as the following examplefrom Ev---ans (1977) shows:(i) *John owns no sheep and Harry vaccinatesthem.The role of non-linguistic inference in interpret-ing pragmatic pronouns can be seen from the follow-ing l inguistical ly similar examples.
( i i )  John owns no sheep because Amherst taxesthem.
( i i i )  John now owns no sheep because Harrypoisoned them.In ( i i ) ,  them seems to be generic sheep ratherthan any group of sheep; in ( i i i )  the most plaus-ible interpretation seems to be the sheep thatJohn once owned.
Perhaps i t  would be more accur-ate to say that no man and no men never serve dir-ectly as antecede'nt o a prag~c they, butsentences in which they occur do sometimes permitthe inference of a suitable referent for a prag-matic they.7.
The group in this case is the group of Johnand Bi l l .
That group can be put into contextualsalience by any mention of John and Bill separately,as in the examples below.
(i) John saw Bill yesterday.
They decided togo fishing.
( i i )  I invited John, but not Bi l l .
They bothcame anyway.
( i i i )  Ask John or Bi l l .keys are kept.They know where the8.
Montague (1973) treats all noun phrases asdevoting property sets, and Cooper follows thispractice.
While that treatment seems essentialfor a unified account of noun phrases, I haveomitted discussion of i t  here for simplicity.84Bi bl i ographyBennett, Michael (1974), Some Extensions of aMontague Fragment of English, unpublishedPh.D.
dissertation, UCLA.
(available throughIndiana University Linguistics Club)Cooper, Robin (forthcoming), "The Interpretationof Pronouns", to appear in Selections from theThird Groningen Round Table, ed.
by F. Henyand H. Schnelle, Syntax and Semantics,Vol.
lO, Academic Press.Cooper, Robin and Terence Parsons (1976), "MontagueGrammar, Generative Semantics, and Interpre-tive Semantics", in Partee, ed.
(1976).Evans, Gareth (1977), "Pronouns, Quantifiers, andRelative Clauses (1)", Canadian Journal ofPhilosophy, 7.3 (467-536).Geach, Peter T. (1962), Reference and Generality,U.
of Cornell Press, Ithaca.
(amended ed.,1968)Jackendoff, Ray (1972), Semantic Interpretation inGenerative Grammar, The MIT Press, Cambridge.Karttunen, Lauri (1969), "Pronouns and Variables"in Binnick et al eds., Proc.
of V ChicagoLinguistics Society Meeting, I08-I16.Karttunen, Lauri (1976),"Discourse Referents", inJ.
McCawley, ed., Syntax and Semantics Vol.7,Academic Press, New York.Keenan, Edward (1971), "Names, Quantifiers, anda Solution to the Sloppy Identity Problem",in Papers in Linguistics 4.2.Klima, Edward S. (1964), "Negation in English",in Fodor and Katz, The Structure of Language:Readings in the Philosophy of Lanqua~e,Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 246-323.Lakoff, Goerge (1971), "On Generative Semantics",in D. Steinberg and L. Jakobovits, eds.,Semantics, Cambridge, 232-296.Lees, R.B.
and E.S.
Klima (1963), "Rules for Eng-lish Pronominalization", Languaqe 39, 17-28.Montague, Richard (1973), "The Proper Treatment ofQuantification in Ordinary English", in K.J.J.Hintikka, J.M.E.
Moravcsik, and P.
Suppes,eds., Approaches to Natural Language: Pro-ceedings of the 1970 Stanford WorKshop onGrammar and Semantics, D. Reidel, Dordrecht;reprinted in Montague (1974).Montague, Richard (1974), Formal Philosophy: Selec-ted Papers of Richard Montague, edited andwith an introduction by Richmond Thomason,Yale University Press, New Haven.Partee, B.
(1970), "Opacity, Coreference, andPronouns", Synthese 21, 359-385.Partee,'B.
(1975a), "Montague Grammar and Trans-formational Grammar", Linguistic Inquiry 6,203-300.Partee, B.
(1975b), "Deletion and Variable Binding",in Edward Klima, ed.
(1975) Formal Semanticsof Natural Language, Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge.Partee, B, ed.
(1976), Montague Grammar, AcademicPress, New York.Quine, w.v.o.
(1970), Philosophy of Logic, Prentice-Hall.Ross, J.R. (1967), Constraints on Variables inSyntax, unpublished octoral dissertation,MIT, Cambridge, Mass.Russell, Bertrand (1905), "On Denoting", Mind 14.Sag, Ivan (1976), Deletion and Logical Form, MITPh.D.
dissertation, available through IndianaUniversity Linguistics Club.Williams, Edwin (1977), "Discourse and LogicalForm", Lin.quistic Inquiry 8.1.85
