What Makes Something "Ad Hoe"by Roger C. SehankYale UniversityDepartment of Computer ScienceNew Haven, Conn. 06520Only one of the questions posed before thissession really inspires me to take pen in hand.
"How general are various formalisms?
Are theyreally ad hoc solutions to relatively narrowdomains?
"That is not exactly my favorite question.
Ifind the thought of having to address it palatableonly if I can delude myself into believing thatthis is the last time I shall have to deal withit.
So, proceeding on the basis of thatdelusional belief, I shall begin.Ad Hoeness, I have come to believe, is adisease that all new theories in the three fieldsin which I consider myself well-versed, namelylinguistics, psychology and ArtificialIntelligence, contract at conception, sort of likeoriginal sin.
This would not be so bad if it werea disease for which there were a cure, but alasthere is none.We are all familiar with the phrase "beautyis in the eye of the beholder."
In this case wehave an instance of "the disease is in the eye ofthe beholder" which of course explains whY thecure is so elusive.
The beholder rarely wants todo anything about it.
To discuss this moresubjectively, let's take a neutral case.
Beforedoing so, we shall have to point out what a casecan be expected to look like.
A case of "adhocness" usually fits the form (or should I saythe "ad hoe" form)Theory X is called "ad hoc" by group withrival theory YThe research described in this paper was supportedby the Advanced Research Projects Agency of theDepartment of Defense and monitored by the Officeof Naval Research under contract N00014-75-C-IIII.To get to our neutral case, we shall start ourdiscussion where X is Conceptual Dependency and Yis Transformational Generative Grammar.
Before Ibegin, I should note that there are conditions onX and Y relative to each other, namely that X mustbe a theory that has been conceived at a datelater than Y was conceived.
Furthermore Y shouldhave been dominating some academic field which Xis seeking to invade.What makes a theory X assailable by Y as adhoc?
There are a n~nber of criteria:1 - X must explain a phenomenon that Y choseto ignore and that Y would rather go onignoring since Y could not possibly explainit.2 - X must be fundamentally at variance withy, so that if X were right Y would benecessarily wrong.3 - X must use different criteria of judgmentof how a phenomena should be explained than Ydoes ?The following rules are used for thestrategy to be followed in labelling an X asad hoc:1 - Since X will undoubtedly show how itstheory explains a given particularphenomenon, accuse X's theory of only workingin that case.
This will put the burden ofproof for generality on X rather than Y andalso has the desirable effect of putting X inthe position of not being able to proveanything with out proving everything.2 - Choose a phenomenon to explain in whichit is virtually impossible to explaineverything, thus giving game and set to Y.Consider our hypothetical ease whereConceptual Dependency is X and TranformationalGrammar is Y.
An examination of the literaturewill show that criteria I through 3 as well as thetwo available strategies have been used by theTransformationalists- In various articles andpublic performances charges of "ad hotness" havebeen raised against Conceptual Dependency.
We aretold that our structures only work for theexamples we discuss; that we have "no principledway of going from a sentence to aconceptualization" (Dresher and Hornstein (1976))or that "Schank provides no demonstration that hisscheme is more than a collection of heuristicsthat happen to work on a specific class ofexamples" (Weizenbaum (1976)).
(If the reader iswondering how Weizenba~ got to be atransformationalist in my view, he need only readWeizenbaum's further remarks extolling Chomsky ashaving met the criteria that he claims I have notmet ?
)To what extent are these charges valid?
Tonot knowing if one can extract a conceptualizationfrom any sentence (and its corroborating charge ofnot proving that there exists a right CD diagramfor any sentence) I plead guilty.
But of course,I would be less than completely honest if I didnot also note that there does not exist any theoryor theorist who would not also have to pleadguilty.
Have the transformationalists shown usthat they have some principled way of extractingconceptualizations from sentences or determiningthe correct representation for any sentence?Unless they are keeping their solution as a secretplan not to be revealed until after the election,I would have to imagine that the answer to this isthat they do not have a solution to the problem.So clearly, they are no more or less ad hoc thanwe are.
(Of course I might note here that we dohave programs that suggest that we can do a largeclass of examples and show that our parsers are atleast the beginning of some set of principles thatwork, but I won't).What about Weizenba~'s  attack?
Perhaps itis all heuristics.
To this charge I plead nocontest.
It might be that, in the end, we willhave built a working program that solves theentire natural language problem and it will beeasily labelled as a grand set of heuristics.Won't that be terrible!
To quote Dresher andHornstein again, "Not only has work in AI not yetmade any contribution to a scientific theory oflanguage, there is no reason to believe that(Al)...will ever lead to such theories".And what will they say after success has beenachieved and the ultimate natural language systemhas been designed?
The same thing of course.Chomsky himself (personal communication) hasclaimed that such an achievement would be no moreinteresting than the achievement of the 16thcentury clockmakers.I mention all this in the hope of pointingout that it is not just me and my theories thatare damned by criticisms of ad hocness.
We areall damned by them.
Our ultimate success wouldnot be even recognized much less applauded bythose who criticize our solutions as ad hoc.Suppose every domain we worked on required yetanother ad hoc solution.
This might well be thecase after all.
What would we lose if thishappened?
Nothing at all.
That's what artificialintelligence is all about.
AI is the designingand testing of theories about human understandingcapabilities.
There is, at the moment, no reasonto believe that people solve puzzles the way theyread newspapers or that they play chess the waythey answer questions.
Of course, we all  hopethat there exist some general mechanisms thatsolve all these problems in some neat way.
Wehope this in large part because we are lazy.
Wewould not like to have to work on each problemindividually.
We also hope this because webelieve our intuitions when they tell us howreading a newspaper is a lot like watching a soapopera.
A word of caution is necessary here.Beware of your intuitions.
As a child you learnedhow to do each of these things separately and werepained to deal with each one of them.
Of course,we do expect there to be some general principlesthat apply across domains.
But if theseprinciples are affix - hopping or trace - deletionwe are all in trouble.Part II~aving said all this, now let me tell youwhat I actually believe.
I do not believe thatany of our theories are ad hoc.
Just because CDneeded to be modified by causal chaining rules,and those by scripts and those by plans and goalsand themes, and those by triangles, does not meanthat what we are doing is ad hoc.
We are no moread hoc in hypothesizing our primitive elementsthan chemists were in hypothesizing theirs.
I donot know what the ultimate result will be.
Howmany elements make up the correct number, or whatother kinds of formalisms will need to be added tothose listed above is still unknown.I do know how AI does its research however.We build a program to do a small class of examplesand when we are finished we rip it apart and builda bigger and better program to do larger examples.In so doing, ad hoe entities (oftimes calledkludges) cannot survive.
If a formalism does notkeep handling more data it is either abandoned ormoved down to a special purpose role within alarger program.Well, in ten years of research by my researchgroup what has survived?
After ten years andprobably a hundred different kinds of programs,Conceptual Dependency is still with us.
It stillworks for us.
I challenge any other theory thathas been programmed to say the same!
Is it adhoc?
I leave that as an exercise for the reader.PART IIIJust to give the reader a feel for the nature ofad hoc thinking in AI that I believe to be worthespousing, I will now consider a problem that Ihave recently been working on.
We have had aproblem in representing certain kinds of politicalconcepts in our old representation, Since we havebeen very concerned with the problem of newspaperstory understanding it is very important that webe able to handle such concepts in a cleanrepresentation that will facilitate computerunder stand ing.The problem we are attempting to solve can beillustrated by looking at a recent New York Timesheadline: "Catawba Indians land claim supported.
"The problem here is to be able to represent what"land claim" and "supported" mean.
We know that aland claim is more than what we might use torepresent it in Conceptual Dependency.Something like "Indians MTRANS land bepossessed by Indians" is possibly true, but itmisses the point.
A "land claim" is in a sense apetition to a higher authority to resolve adispute between two parties.
That is, the Indiansare saying to the U.S. Government, "this land isours".
It may not be possible to infer theparticulars of this land claim.
Indians have beenknown to take the land by force, to file doc~nentsin government offices, to complain to newsmen andso on.
The important point here is that we reallyneed not know?
and in most cases a reader wouldnot bother to worry about, exactly which methodhas been selected.
Rather.
a reader feels that heunderstands such a sentence when he has been ableto identify the relationships and aims of theparties involved.A program must recognize that a "land claim"is a type of petition to a higher authority toresolve a dispute about land ownership.
We do notknow who presently owns the land?
but we knowenough about ownership of property to infer thatthere is probably a counter petition of some sort.We also know about petitions to authority.
Theyusually get resolved by the authority.
In thiscase then, "supported" refers to the decision ofthe authority in the case.This information can be representedgraphically by a kind of triangle (example I);AUTHORITYCatawba Ind ians(c)Other(a)In this triangle (a) represents the disputebetween the Indians and the owners of the land,) represents the appeal to authority to resolvethe dispute made by the Indians?
and (c)represents the authority's decision.Triangles of this sort have use inrepresenting any type of dispute.
For example, in(2) and (3) such triangles can also beconstructed :(2 )  Burma appeals to UN to settle border disputewith Thailand.UNBurma ~ Thailand(3) John complained to Bill's mother that Bill hithim.Bill" s MotherJo hn BillOf course?
these triangles just suggest thebasic relationships involved.
In order to addsubstance to the bare bones of the triangles weshall have to deal with some representationalissues that are being glossed over here.
Theimportant point at this juncture is that there isan essential similarity across (I)?
(2) and (3)?that the similarity must be represented in someway, and that that similarity can be exploited foruse in an understanding system.The first representational problem weencounter in trying to make explicit much of whatis implicit in the triangle representation is thatwe will need to design a new set of ACTs to takecare of the various relationships.In the primitive ACTs of Conceptual Dependencywe have a system that represents physical actionsby using a small set of basic actions that cancombine in various ways to describe detailed orcomplex actions that underlie seemingly simpleverbs and nouns.
The primitive ACTs do notaccount for intentionality and goals underlyingphysical action.
To account for such things wedevised a complex apparatus discussed in Schankand Abelson (1977).
If we wish to account forsocial events, we will need a system of basicsocial ACTs to represent the social actions thatcomprise the events.
I term these "basic socialACTs" rather than primitive ACTs because in theend most social ACTs have some physicalmanifestation.
Often their physical manifestationis uninteresting however.
For example agovernment decision may be MTRANS-ed in a varietyof ways.
The manner of the MTRANS (written?announced in a speech, etc) is often notsignificant with respect to the overall socialeffect of the action.
Furthermore the MTRANSitself is only slightly interesting.
The standardinferences from MTRANS apply, but there are somehighly significant inferences that need to be madethat are not obviously available.For example, the most significant inferenceto be made from an authority's decision is thatsimply by virtue of that decision something hasactually happened.
That is ?
a governmentauthorization is a truly performative ACT.
Thus, ifthe government says some property is mine, or thata man is a criminal, then it is so by virtue oftheir saying it.
Similarly other authorityfigures have the same power.
A professor can saya thesis is finished and a student has a Ph.D.and these things are the case by virtue of hissaying it.Not all authority's decisions are like thisto be sure.
Sometimes an authority gives an orderand that order must be carried out for thedecision to have effect.
Frequently these orderscome about as a result of a governmental decisionor authorization.
If the government says the landbelongs to the Catawba Indians, then it does, butthey may have to send in the National Guard to getthe original owner off the property.What I am proposing then is two basic socialACTs - AUTHORIZE (abbreviated AUTH) and ORDER.AUTH is something only an authority can do.
(Thisis a bit circular actually since if you actuallycan AUTH then that defines you as an authority.
)i0In a sense then, an authority is one who when heacts like he is doing an AUTH (that is he does thephysical ACTs that ordinarily correspond to anAUTH) in fact causes some things to happen as aresult of the AUTH that were supposed to be theresults of the AUTH.
In other words, you cannotreally tell if an AUTH has taken place until itbecomes clear that the person doing the AUTH canback up his AUTH in some way.)
The object of theAUTH is the authorization or new state of theworld.
AUTH takes a recipient, namely therelevant parties in the dispute.ORDER is a frequent inference of AUTH.
Thegovernment can AUTH the army to fight a war, butthat doesn't, simply by virtue of the statement,imply that they are fighting it, A subsequentORDER is required that carries with it theimplicit punishments that are relevant in carryingout an order.Why can't we do these things with CDprimitives we now have?
What is the advantage ofthese new ACTs?
To answer these questions, weneed to look at the purpose of a primitive ACT.It is possible to represent ORDER in CD forexample.
The verb 'order" means to MTRANS tosomeone that they must do a particular actionor face some (usually implicit) consequence.Thus, implicit in the verb "order', but explicitin the CD representation for 'order', is the ideathat if the required ACT is not performed, thensomeone will possibly do something to harm therecipient of the order in some way.
This impliedpunishment is a part of the concept 'order" but isit necessary that we think of it each time that weunderstand an "order" to have taken place?The same question can be asked with respectto 'authorize'.
We understand what authorizationor governmental decision is, but we need notaccess all that information each time weunderstand the word.
Consider the problem ofexplaining the meaning of these words to a childfor example.
It is very difficult to explain themprecisely because they are so complicated at thelevel of physical primitive AC~s, Yet these ideasare really not complicated at all at a sociallevel of ACTs.
Such simple concepts such as ORDERand AUTHORIZE form the basis of the organizationof societies.
What is complex at one level issimple at another.
This idea of nested levels ofcomplexity, each with their own set of primitives,is a very important one for the representation ofinformation in artificial intelligence.
Bychoosing a good set of primitives we caneffectively organize what we need to know.
Thus,ORDER and AUTHORIZE have inferences that come fromthem just as the physical primitive ACTs do.
Themain difference is that these basic social ACTsare not primitive in the same sense.
They can bebroken down, but we would rarely choose to do so.The use of these new basic ACTs is much likethe use of the original primitive ACTs.
We canpredict what will fill slots reasonably in aconceptualization and make inferences about slotfillers and consequent inferences as we would anyconceptualization.
Thus we represent sentencessuch as the following using AUTH:(4) The Supreme Court decided segregationillegal.O R people ofS.C.<=>AUTH<---segregation<---IU.
S.US<~-->ORDER< ~- punishmentis(5) The cop gave the speeder a ticket.0 driver drive --->driverCop<=>AUTN< --- ~ V $ <---1$TRIAL ATRANS ---<gov t.&DEFENDANTmoney?govt ?In (4) we have chosen to ignore representing"segregation" for the moment, since it isobviously complex.
Supreme Court decisions areAUTHs.
They also carry with them (as do mostAUTHs) an implicit ORDER for 'punishment" ifcertain circumstances are not met.
Thestraightforwerd inference from (4) then is thatsomeone practicing segregation can expect to bepunished.Policemen are authorities also.
In (5) theticket is a written manifestation of an AUTH thateither puts the driver in a DEFENDANT role in a$TRIAL script or forces him to pay a fine.
Theinstrument of the AUTH is the actual PTRANS of theticket (left out here).
The important point hereis that we could represent (5) using PTRANS only.However, what we would be describing is thephysical ACT itself when it is the social ACT thatis significant here.
(When I was young there wasmuch talk of bad kids getting "JD cards".
I neverunderstood what was so horrible about that.Couldn't they just throw them away?)
The socialsignificance of an ACT must be represented if itis understood.Now that we have presented these two ACTslet's return to our triangle:AUTH~fo l lowed by a possible ORDER)We have named one side of the triangle.
The othersides represent ACTs as well.
The completetriangle is as follows: APET IT ION/  ~AU~H/ ~ (ORDER)DIS PUTEThe ACT PETITION represents an individual orgroup's act of requesting AUTH" s from anauthority.
Thus a "civil suit" is a PETITION tothe courts using some legal scripts.
A protestdemonstration is a PETITION to unstatedIiauthorities using some demonstration script.
Thepoint here is that we cannot do away with thescripts that describe the actual physicalmanifestations of these events.
However, thescripts are ins t r~ents  of the social ACT involved- PETITION.
The most important inference fromPETITION is, of course, that an AUTH is expectedthat will resolve the issue that is the object ofthe PETITION.The issue that is the object of the PETITIONis the DISPUTE itself.
DISPUTE takes two actors(one of whom may be quite passive).
The object ofthe DISPUTE is the issue involved.
DISPUTE takesno recipient as it is not an inherently directedACT.
It is the ACT of PETITION that directs it toa particular authority who can AUTH something thatwill resolve it.We are now ready to deal with sentence (I)(Catawba Indians Land Claim Supported).
Therepresentation using the new social ACTs is:oIndians<=>DISPUTE<--(OWN (land) <=>?
)other--->US oIndians<=>PETITlON<-- (OWN(land) <=> ?)
< -- I---<Indians--->Indianso I or otherU.
S. <=>AUTH<--(OWN(land)<=>Indians)l---<USSince this representation is not as easy towrite as the triangular one, we shall continue touse triangles in the remainder of the paper.
Thus(I) is:U.S. Gov't.IndiansOWNS(land)<=>IndiansOtherOWN(land)<=>?We will leave out the arrows and the ACTS fordiagrammatic purposes, but the above triangleshould be understood as containing all theinformation given in the CD diagram for (I).
(Actually~the triangles contain more information.
)Triangles provide us with a method forrepresenting the social significance of actions.As with any other representation scheme, theadvantage of the symbols we create can only be inthe new symbols or actions that they spawn.
Thatis, it is the inferences that come from thetriangles that are of key importance.
When wecreated the original primitive ACTs we said thatPROPEL was no more than the set of inferences thatit fired off.
The same is true here, so we mustask what these inferences are.The first thing we can recognize aboutpotential inferences here is that they will comein two varieties.
The first are the inferencesthat are fired off from the new social ACTs thatwe have created.
The second kind are those thatcome from the triangles themselves.
That is,there should be patterns of triangles that arerecognizable for the triangles they spawn as wellas a set of inferences that come from the factthat certain triangles exist.As examples of this let us consider againsentence (2):(2) Burma appeals to UN to settle border disputewith Thailand.Since the representation of (2) involves aPETITION we can employ the inference rules thatare fired by PETITION.
Some of these are:a.
For every PETITION we can expect acorresponding AUTH.b.
For every PETITION there was probably aDISPUTE that gave rise to it.These rules lead us to the inferences availablefrom AUTH and DISPUTE.
Of course, inferences frominferences have a lower probability of truth, sofor (2) the inferences below would be somewhatless certain.c.
An AUTH can cause a DISPUTE to end.d.
An AUTH can cause a PETITION to a higherauthority from the party unfavorably affected bythe AUTH.e.
An unfavorable AUTH can cause a rebellion; orlack of acceptance of the validity of the AUTH.This can give rise to ORDERs to effect the AUTH inthe case of individuals versus governments or warsin the case of governmental conflicts.f.
An AUTH causes a new state of the world toexist, often ending an old state in conflict withthe new state.g.
A DISPUTE can cause one party to PETITION.h.
A DISPUTE can cause a PROPEL to cause damageto occur for individuals, or a WAR triangle to beinitiated for countries.There are, of course, a great many more of thesekinds of inferences than we are listing here.
Theabove list is mostly intended to give the flavorof basic social ACT inferences.
It is importantto note that the social ACTs give rise toinferences at both of the other levels ofrepresentation besides those at the same level ofrepresentation.
That is, given a social ACT wemay be able to infer another social ACT, a newprimitive ACT, or a new triangular representation.Thus, for (2) we have two representations tostart with: one is at the standard CD level anduses MTRANS; the other is at the social level anduses PETITION.
Both of these representationswould be available as output from the parser.12The MTRANS representation would fire offinferences about the methods of communicationpossibly used - that the UN now knows about theproblem and so on.The PETITION representation would fire offinferences about the expected AUTH from the UN.Since we know how the UN does its AUTHs, thiswould fire off a UN script of some kind that dealtwith voting and debate.
PETITION would also causeDISPUTE to be inferred which would causeinferences about the kind of methods possiblyemployed by the quarreling countrles~ both increating the DISPUTE and escalating it.The existence of the PETITION-AUTH-DISPUTEtriangle would fire off an inference that thecountry kind of triangle existed.
Thus, a newtriangle that was lopsided showing possibleaggression from Thailand towards Burma would becreated.
This triangle would in turn fire offinferences about attempts to RESOLVE the DISPUTE(one of which was (3) itself) and weuld predict anescalation towards the WAR triangle with itsnormal inferences if a RESOLVE did not take place.Although the above is rather sketchy, thepoint should be clear.
We need additionalrepresentational mechanisms to handle the manylevels at which statements can be interpreted.Triangles provide us with a new set of inferencerules providing more power to the understandingsystem.
Are they ad hoc?
Of course they are.
Mypoint is simply that such ad hoc mechanisms willeither solve the problem or help us create a moregeneral solution that will solve the problem.
TheproRram that we are writing that uses triangles isalso ad hoe.
Is is a kludge?
No.
If it were itwouldn't be worth a thing.
But, here again, ifthe program we write can handle many examples aswe rewrite it because of what we have learned fromit, then it will have been werthwhile.The program below reads newspaper headlinesin English and generates, by use of triangles andthe inferences available from triangles, aparaphrase of the input.
This English para-phrase is generated by the program.
*******************************************TRIANGLE analyzer loaded.INPUT SENTENCE:(CATAWBA INDIAN LAND CLAIMS SUPPORTED)(PARSE II) : CON4~panding token: CON4 =((CON ((ACTOR (*PP* CLASS (#GROUP)CFEATURE (*AMERINDIAN*) TYPE(*ETHNIC*) NAME (CATAWBA) TOK NPI)<=> (*PETITION*) OBJECT ((ACTOR(*PP* CLASS (#REGION) TOK NP2 REL CON1)IS (*OWN* VAL NPI)) TOK CON1)FROM NPI TO (*PP* CLASS (#INSTITUTION)MEM *COURT* TOK NP3)) TOK CON2)IR ((ACTOR NP3 <=> (*AUTH*) OBJECT CON1RECIPI NPI RECIP2 GAP1 FROMGAP2) TOK CON3)) TOK CON4)The Catawba Indians asked a FederalCourt to rule that they own the land.The Catawba Indians requested a FederalCourt to rule that the land is owned byt hem.The Catawba Indians appealed to a FederalCourt.The Catawba Indians asked a Federal Courtto rule that they own the land and itdecreeed that the land is owned by them.\[ Generating inferences from CON4 \]>(TELL-STORY)The Catawba Indians and the other partiesdisagreed over the ownership of the land.The Catawba Indians requested a FederalCourt to rule that they own the land.A Federal Court decided that the land isowned by the Catawba Indians.The other parties will probably appeal thedecision.The other parties might use force againstthe Catawba Indians to assert that theyown the land.
*****This program was written by Jaime Carbonell andStephen Slade.ReferencesDresher, B.E.
and Hornstein, N., \[1976\], On somesupposed contributions of artificial intelligenceto the scientific study of language, Cognition,4(1976) 321-398.Schank, R.C.
and Abelson, R.P., \[1977\], Scripts,Plans, Goals and Understanding: An Inquiry intoHuman Knowledge Structures, Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates, Hillsdale, New Jersey.Weizenbaum, J., \[1976\], Computer Power and HumanReasoning, W.H.
Freeman and Company, SanFrancisco.13
