A Framework for Comparing Language Experiences(with particular emphasis on:The Effect of Audience on Discourse Models)Andee RubinBolt Beranek and Newman Inc.Cambridge, MassachusettsThose of us who have been involved in thestudy of language have often thrown up ourhands in dismay at the complexity of theproblem (at least I have, almost daily) andtried somewhat desperately to find some facetof the many-faced gem we confront whichappears manageable.
This desire to focus - totrain the flashlights we use to illuminate theproblem on a well-circumscribed area - led,for example, to the early transformationalgrammarians' separation of syntax from therest of language.
Many researchers have sincediscarded that particular focus and attemptedto integrate syntax, semantics and pragmaticsin a single theory.
Yet, even they end upfocusing on a particular kind of linguisticinteraction.
Many study oral conversations,some look at computer-person dialogues, somestudy newspaper articles.
These limitationsin scope are often not explicit, but arereflected in the examples they choose anddiscuss.
Very few people study more than onecommunicative situation and even if they do,they do not usually analyze the similaritiesand differences among them.Just as the early transformational focuson syntax resulted in a model which missedmany crucial insights about language, so doesour current research risk formulatingincomplete and even inaccurate models byfocusing on certain communicative situationswithout adequate insight into theirrelationship to others.
My own focus in anattempt to point out what such a narrow viewmight miss, and to provide a framework inwhich to examine a wide variety of languageexperiences and discover what effect thedifferences among them have on theories oflanguage.
This paper first presents theframework, then examines further one dimensionof language experience -- the audience for anutterance -- as an example of the kind ofconsiderations such an analysis suggests.I.
Building the Space of Language ExperiencesConsider first two language experiencescommonly studied by present-day investigators:face-to-face oral conversations andcomputer-person dialogues.
These twosituations differ in at least two ways: themodality of the interaction (currentcomputer-person dialogues are written) and thelack of possibility of communicating withextra-linguistic devices such as gestures andfacial expressions.
The kinds of questions wewant to be able to address are:What are the effects of these two distinctionson the language used in each of thesesituations?
What are the effects on themodels of language use which we therebyformulate?In order to capture these kinds ofdifferences in a way which will enable us toapproach these questions, I have used themetaphor of a multi-dimensional space.
Eachlanguage experience lies at a point in thespace defined by its position along severaldimensions of the linguistic medium.
Themedium of a language experience is defined incontrast to its message: in as much as theycan be separated, the message is what iscommunicated, while the medium is how it iscommunicated.
Further, the medium here isexpressed in experiential terms and does notrepresent simply the vehicle for the message;for example, the contrast is made betweenbeing in a conversation and watching a play,rather than between a conversation and a play.
(I)Consider as a starting point in buildingthe space the following message: aninvitation and directions to a party.
Onecommon linguistic situation in which thismight be communicated is a face-to-face oralconversation.
Conversations, however, do notneed to be oral; it is quite possible tomaintain all the aspects of a conversationwhile writing it down by, for example, passingnotes.
These two language experiences form a"minimal pair"; that is, they differ along(I) I have omitted from this discussion anyconsideration of the message communicated in alanguage experience.
In Rubin (1978) Iidentify three message-related dimensionsstructure, function and touic - and discusstheir interactions with the medium-relateddimensions introduced here.133only one dimension.
We might represent thesituation graphically by labelling the lineconnecting the two experiences with thedimension along which they differ.
Therelevant dimension in this diagram is mod~l i~i.e.
whether a language experience is oral orwritten.
(Modality will be further dissectedbelow.
)HAVING AGARDEN-VARIETYCONVERSATIONMODALITYFigure i.HAVING ACONVERSATIONBY PASSINGNOTESLet us now look at two other pairs oflanguage experiences which illustrate anotherdimension.
Consider communicating the samemessage over the telephone compared to using atape cassette.
In the first case, it ispossible for the two participants to interact,for the listener to express confusion and askfor additional information, for the speaker tomonitor the listener's reactions and provide amore complete explanation.
In the cassettesituation, the speaker must decide once andfor all how to give the directions without thebenefit of intermediate feedback; any feedbackwhich might occur would happen after thelistener had heard the tape all the waythrough and would be temporally removed fromthe time the speaker composed the tape.
Ihave termed this dimension of languageexperience ~ntgrac~io~, as Figure 2illustrates.The other minimal pair in Figure 2, whichalso illustrates the interaction dimension, iscommunicating by letter versus communicatingby a conversation over teletypes (while thisis a somewhat unusual communicative setting,many of the people reading this paper haveprobably participated in it).
Here again thecrucial difference between the two is thepossibility of feedback.
In this particulartask, for example, the speaker might want toask of the listener, "Do you know the cornerof Lewis and Fairview?"
and base her furtherexplanation on the response.
Such an exchangewould be impossible in the case of a letter.i TALKING ON THE TELEPHONEINTERACTION l LISTENING ITO A TAPE ICASSET~hI CON~IERSINGI OVER LINKEDL TELETYPES~INTERACTION tFigure 2.READING A LETTERNotice now that we can connect the two minimalpairs in Figure 2 by lines labelled"modality".
Reading a letter and listening toa cassette form a minimal pair which differonly in modality; the same is true forteletype and telephone conversations.
Themodality and interaction axes together form aplane in which we can place these fourlanguage experiences.l TALKING I ON THE TELEPHONEI MODALITYI CONVERSINGOVER LINKEDTELETYPESINTERACTION \[ TOcAsSETTELISTENINGA TAPI MODALITYINTERACTION HEADING ALETTEHFigure 3.Other dimensions can similarly be addedto this space, by first discovering a minimalpair which focuses on a particular dimension,then attempting to pinpoint each languageexperience already in the space on thatdimension and finally filling in the holeswhich exist because of the added axis.
As anexample of one step in building the space,consider the dimension of gxtra-linguisticcommunication, that is, communication bygestures, facial expressions, etc.
For themessage we are considering, gestures would beparticularly useful to indicate spatialfeatures such as "right" and "left" and therelative location of objects and landmarks.None of the four media in Figure 3 admit thistype of interaction, but for each of them itis possible to construct an experience whichdiffers from it along only this new dimension.For example, garden-variety conversationsdiffer from telephone conversations becausethey allow this extra dimension, and passingnotes differs from conversing over a teletypelink in the same way.
We now see where thepair of language experiences illustrated inFigure I comes in and by adding two more nodeswe get the following cube.MO~LITY iMODALITYFigure 4.134The language experiences in this subspacediffer in their degrees of naturalness;writing on the blackboard in such a way as toallow extra-linguistic communication butprohibit interaction, for example, seemscontrived.
This awkwardness is due primarilyto the fact that certain dimensions generallycovary and that the independence implied by adimensional analysis doesn't really hold.Section 3 below discusses theseinterdependencies in more detail.2.
The Dimensions of Language ExperienceIn a similar fashion, we can add moredimensions to the space of languageexperiences.
I have so far identified eightseparate dimensions along which the medium ofa language experience may vary.
Thedimensions are at least semi-independent; myinformal criterion for listing a dimensionseparately was the existence of some minimalpair of language experiences whose mediadiffered only along that dimension.
Themedium-related dimensions of languageexperience are: modality, interaction,extra-linguistic communication, spatialcommonality, temporal commonality,concreteness of referents, separability ofcharacters and specificity of audience.Below, each dimension is explicated by meansof the question one would have to ask about alanguage experience to correctly place it onthat dimension and additional details aboutits substructure and ramifications are given.I.
MODAL ITY  - Is the message written orspoken?
Even in this seemingly simpledimension are hidden at least two differentcharacteristics which affect the communicativesituation: prosody and permanence.
I willbriefly discuss these here, but a moreextensive discussion of the components ofmodality may be found in Schallert, Kleiman &Rubin (1977) and Sticht, Beck, Hauke, Kleiman& James (1974) provide a review of theliterature comparing auding (comprehension oforal language) and reading.An obvious difference between an oralutterance and a text is the availability ofprosodic cues.
Temporal characteristics ofspeech such as pauses and changes in speedprovide clues for the chunking of words intolarger constituents.
In general, pauses andbreaths occur at syntactic boundaries and amore quickly spoken set of words may indicatean appositive phrase or an aside which is notgermane to the top-level structure of thesentence.
We rely on stress in oral languageas an indicator of such discourse organizingtopics as given/new, contrast and focus, aswell as to aid in the disambiguation ofpronominal references.
Intonation is oftenused as an indication of the illocutionaryforce of an utterance or to communicateaffective qualities of language such as humoror  sarcasm.While written text clearly lacks theseproperties, it has some compensating features.Punctuation and other textual devices providea partial analogue of many prosodic features,including illocutionary force (.
?
!
), pauses(;), lists (, : ;), related statements (;) andcontrast and emphasis (underlining anditalicizing).
A written message also providesthe recipient with concretely indicatedsegments both on the lower levels of word andsentence and on the more abstract level ofparagraph and section structure.The second major distinction included inmodality is the permanence of written text incontrast to the transitory nature of orallanguage.
This permanence makes possiblevarious "good reading" techniques such asskimming ahead to look at chapter headings,re-reading an entire paragraph whose pointbecame clear only at the last sentence, orjust re-reading a sentence which was misparsedthe first time around.
In oral languagesituations, such heuristics for dealing withmisunderstanding are often replaced by anappeal to another (independent) characteristicof language experiences - interaction.2.
INTERACTION - Are the participants able tointeract?
In an interactive languageexperience, participants have the opportunityto indicate that they have not understood aprevious utterance, that a pronominal or otherreference is ambiguous or that they wish tochange the topic.
Keenan and Schieffelin(1976) in particular have represented theestablishment of discourse topic as a dynamicprocess which includes input from allparticipants.
This possibility forinteraction means that there is less necessityfor a participant to entertain and maintain aset of competing hypotheses about the meaningof some part of the message.3.
EXTRA-LINGUISTIC COMMUNICATION - Can theparticipants communicate via extra-linguisticmeans which require visual or tactileinteraction?
(This communication maysometimes be one-way, as in the case of alecturer speaking to a large class.
)Gestures, facial expressions and even bodypositions are all powerful in theircommunicative potential.
In situations whereemotions or spatial attributes are beingcommunicated, these extra-linguistic means maybe especially relevant.
Children's earlylanguage experiences are especially dependenton this aspect of communication; deLaguna(1927) describes one developmental thread inchildren's language use as "a progressivefreeing of speech from dependence on theperceived conditions under which it is utteredand heard, and from the behavior whichaccompanies it."13.54.
SPAT IAL  COMMONALITY  - Can the participantsinterpret spatial deictie words such as "here"and "there" with reference to their ownlocation?
One indication that situations inwhich this condition is not met are difficultis the well-known situation in which twopeople, having arranged over the telephone tomeet "here", discover that they had twodifferent places in mind.
Because thelistener had to interpret the speaker's use of"here" relative to the speaker's location, itwas necessary for her to know where thespeaker was; incorrect information in thissituation can have serious consequences.Young children may actually interpret "here"and "there" relative to their own position,rather than the speaker's.
(see Tanz (1976)for details)5.
TEMPORAL COMMONALITY - Do the participantsshare a temporal context which allows forsimple interpretation of temporal deicticterms such as "now", "today" and "lastSunday"?
The correct interpretation of suchwords, as well as verb tense markers, requiresthe reader/listener to take the temporal pointof view of the speaker/writer.6.
CONCRETENESS OF REFERENTS - Are theobjects and events referred to visuallypresent for the participants?
If an object orevent is concrete, many of its details areimmediately apparent to the reader/listenerbesides the ones linguistically described inthe message.
Reading or hearing about an?
object ' which is not present often requiresremembering a partial, incomplete descriptionand then reformulating it as more informationbecomes available.
Objects (or pictures) alsoprovide an external "memory" for theirexistence and properties.7.
SEPARABIL ITY  OF CHARACTERS - Are thedistinctions among different people'sstatements and points of view clearlyindicated?
In face-to-face conversations,such distinctions are obvious, as each personmakes his own statements and each point ofview has a physical "anchor".
In reading aplay, characters' lines are clearly marked,although there is no physical object to whichto attach each character.
In a book, thereader must parcel out comments, feelings andmotivations to characters on the basis of moresubtle clues: punctuation, paragraph structureand inferences based on some consistent modelof each of the characters.8.
SPECIF IC ITY  OF AUDIENCE - How complete andspecific is the speaker's model of theaudience for her message?
Two extremes whichillustrate this dimension are garden- varietyconversations in which the speaker and hearerknow each other well and books, which arewritten for wide non-specific audiences.
Inthe former case, references to sharedknowledge are possible, such as "The manlooked like Uncle Joe," while in the latter,such an attempt would surely miss a largeportion of the audience.
To make mattersworse, often a writer (or speaker) does notknow who the audience is likely to be and inthe case of books which are several hundredyears old, the intended audience differs insignificant ways from current readers.Now that we have these eight dimensions,we can use them to generate new languageexperiences which begin to fill up the space.Watching a play, reading a book with pictures,viewing a movie with subtitles, reading acomic book - all these fit in theeight-dimensional space we have defined.
(InRubin (1978) I discuss quite a number of"intermediate" language experiences and showhow they fit into a multi-dimensional space.
)However, some areas of the space are onlysparsely filled.
These relatively emptysections are indications of interactionsbetween dimensions; given a particularposition on one dimension, the choices forcertain other dimensions may be sharplyconstrained.
Descriptions of some of theseinteractions follow.3.
Interactions Among the DimensionsOne fairly obvious interdependency isbetween spatial commonality andextra-linguistic communication.
Since bothrely primarily on the participants being inthe same place, it is not surprising that mostlanguage experiences which exhibit thepotential for extra-linguistic communicationalso allow participants straight-forward useof spatial deictic terms.
(In fact, in Rubin(1978), I treat the two as a singledimension.)
However, in a note left, forexample, on the kitchen table, the writer mayuse "here" and "there", but cannot usegestures or facial expressions, so the twodimensions do not always co-occur.Extra-linguistic communication is alsomost commonly found in oral languagesituations.
The situation with the mostpotential for combining extra-linguisticcommunication with a written message is thatof two people passing notes in what amounts toa written conversation.
Although it istheoretically possible for them to point andgrimace, it would be difficult for them tocoordinate these gestures with the words inthe written text.Interaction and temporal commonality alsoappear closely linked.
If the participantsare not communicating in "real time" - thatis, if the sending and receiving take place atdifferent times - then it might even seenimpossible for them to interact.
However, ifwe allow the kind of attenuated interactionthat takes place in, for example, an exchangeof letters, we can maintain these dimensionsas at least semi-independent.136Finally, we note that specificity ofaudience and interaction have an interestingrelationship.
Less well-defined audiencestend to occur in situations in whichinteraction is difficult, if not impossible.In lectures, for example, the speaker has onlya vague idea of the audience's beliefs andinteraction between them is limited.
Thiscovariance reflects two different facts.
Oneis that in a large (and thereforepoorly-specified) audience, interaction isrestricted simply because of its size.
Theother is that interaction is one device bywhich speakers construct better models oftheir audiences; thus, a lacM of interactionwould lead to less well-specified audiences.An obvious question at this point is: Whybother to separate dimensions that are soclosely related?
There are really twoanswers: the first methodological, the secondhistorical.
In terms of getting a clean modelof the complex tangle of language experiences,it is better to postulate a large number ofdimensions and specify how they interact thanto identify only a small number but talk aboutsubdimensions.
Having a larger number ofdimensions also inspires a wider range oflanguage experiences when the process offilling in the space is carried out.
Withoutthe separation of temporal commonality andinteraction, for example, we would have missedthe subtle notion of temporally attenuatedinteraction.The historical explanation derives fromthe original motivation for this work, whichwas an attempt to assess the relevance ofchildren's early language experiences to theirlearning to read.
Even if the dimensionsidentified here interact significantly, eachstill represents a cognitive skill which achild must learn in making the transition fromgarden-variety conversations to reading atext.
In this framework, interactions amongthe dimensions are interesting because theyrepresent pairs of skills which the child mayhave to learn together, rather than being ableto separate them and learn one at a time.Now that we have a notion wheregarden-variety dialogues fit into theframework of language experiences, it ispossible to see what kinds of considerationswe are liable to leave out if we focus only onconversations.
While all of the dimensionsidentified above point out areas which deserveattention, I want to focus here on specificityof audience as an example of the ways ourmodels must be stretched to account for thediversity of language experience.4.
Limitations and Compensation in LanguageExperiences: Non-Specific AudiencesCertain language experiences presentproblems for the participants, especially incomparison with garden-variety conversations,which have many communication-facilitatingfeatures.
Lack of spatial commonality, forexample, poses extra difficulty in theinterpretation of certain deitic words, andthe absence of non-verbal communication intelephone conversations makes expressingemotion especially hard.
In some cases, anaspect of the medium itself providescompensation for the limitations.
Writtentext, for example, partially compensates forits lack of prosodic cues to structure by itspermanence, which allows the reader to makeseveral attempts at parsing and understandingthe words on the page.
In other cases, weourselves take into account the limitations ofthe medium by expressing our messagedifferently.
In talking on the phone, forexample, we express our emotions moreexplicitly, rather than relying on facialexpressions to communicate them in more subtleways.An important facilitating aspect of mostgarden-variety conversations is that they takeplace between people who have fairly goodmodels of one another and who share a largeset of beliefs.
(See Cohen (1977) and Clark &Marshall (1978) for details on sharedbeliefs.)
The disappearance of this featurein other language experiences can causedifficulties which require special attentionfrom both speaker and listener.
To get afeeling for the effect of an audience,consider the task of explaining the differencebetween analog and digital computers.
Talkingto a technically unsophisticated person makesthe task hard enough, but it would be evenmore difficult if the audience were a largenumber of people with widely varying technicalbackgrounds.
When one is faced withcommunicating with a person about whom oneknows very little or, worse yet, an audiencemade up of many people with different beliefsit becomes necessary to use severalcompensating techniques to ensure that themessage gets across.
I will describe belowsome of the heuristics both speaker/writersand listener/readers use to deal with complexand poorlyspecified audiences.
(From here on,I will use the words "speaker" and "listener"to refer to speaker/writers andlistener/readers, respectively.)5.
Speakers' Heuristics for Complex AudiencesThe audience for an utterance may bepoorly specified in two different ways: it maybe a single person about whom the speaker hasless than complete knowledge or a group ofpeople, each of whom the speaker knows more orless well.
The speaker's task is to constructan utterance which is comprehensible to thosewho perceive that they are part of theintended audience.
The following aretechniques by which speakers may accomplishthis task.Identify the Audignce: In some cases, thespeaker really wants to address her remarks toa single person, even though several peopleare physically present and "available" asaudience.
Straightforward techniques existfor identifying the audience in thesesituations: a speaker may simply look in thedirection of the intended audience or address137her by name.
In giving a technical talk to alarge and varied audience, a speaker mayanalogously select a subset of those presentas the audience for a particular remark byusing a phrase like "for you linguists in theaudience".
A more subtle and interestingmethod for accomplishing the same goal is toinclude in the remark a reference which onlysome of the audience understands, therebyclueing the others in to the fact that theymay not get anything out of the utterance.
Ata recent conference attended by linguists,computer scientists and psychologists, aspeaker, in answering a question from acomputer scientist, resorted to some technicallanguage (what he actually said was, "It's EQ,not EQUAL"), even though he knew two-thirds ofthe audience would be lost.
Afterwards, heremarked that he had also realized that it wasprecisely the computer scientists who wereconfused about the point he was trying tomake, so the remark was doubly appropriate: itselected exactly the audience who needed tocomprehend it.Pla~ It Safa: Qover the Audience: If herealizes that the audience consists of two ormore definable subgroups, a speaker may chooseto include several descriptions of the sametopic, one for each set of people.
Inaddressing an audience made up of computerscientists and psychologists, a speaker mightrefer to the same concept by two differentterms, e.g.
"cache memory" for the computerscientists and "working memory" for thepsychologists.
In this case, most members ofthe audience understand only one of the twodescriptions so both are necessary.
Aslightly different situation exists when aspeaker makes a statement such as, "He hadeyes just like Paul Newman...deep, dark blue.
"Here the elaboration may be seen as a commentto those in the audience who don't know whatPaul Newman's eyes look like.
Those who domust realize that, in some sense, theelaboration was not directed at them since itwas planned for listeners with differentknowledge.
A third example of the "play itsafe" strategy is this conversation which tookplace in front of an audience:B: Jerry has been studying the samething.M: That's right...that's Jerry Fodor...Iread his paper.Had B and M been conversing in private,the explanation that the Jerry being referredto was Jerry Fodor would have beenunnecessary.
However, M was aware that somepeople in  the audience might not be able tofigure out who was being referred to, so heplayed it safe and made the reference clear.Embrace Ambiguity: Sometimes, the speaker isaware that an utterance may be interpreted intwo different ways, but decides that theambiguity is acceptable or even desirable.
Anexample from a personal letter: "The weatherhas been beautiful...perfect for riding amotorcycle in the country."
What the writerhad in mind here was a particular time she andthe addressee had taken a motorcycle ride; shewanted to allude to that event.
If, however,he didn't remember the ride, the sentencestill communicated a coherent, if lessspecific, message.
The writer actuallyconsidered both of these possibilities anddecided that either reading of the sentencewas acceptable.The following sentence taken from anadvertising brochure shows a different kind ofambiguity: "The cane seats of a Mad Rivercanoe provide excellent ventilation anddrainage."
The ad will be read both by peoplewho already know that Mad River canoes havecane seats and by those for whom this is a newfact.
For the latter group, the word "cane"obviously conveys new information; for theformer group, perhaps, it focuses on thataspect of the seat which is relevant to theproperties discussed.
(I use the word"focuses" here in an informal sense, but it issimilar to its use in Grosz (1977) and Sidner(1978).
Again, the ambiguity exists becauseof the non-specificity of the audience, butboth readings are acceptable and, in fact,desirable.Rel~ on Interaction: The standard way speakerscheck whether or not they are being understoodand modify their utterances appropriately isby interacting with the hearer.
In the PaulNewman example above, the speaker could havewatched for signs of recognition (a smile or anod) from the listener which would have madethe elaboration unnecessary.
In aninteractive situation, the motorcycle examplecould have been followed by "Do you rememberthat time?"
Unfortunately, languageexperiences in which the audience is unknownor unknowable, such as books and lectures, areoften those in which interaction is difficult.The presence of both a specific audience andinteraction is a "positive feedback" situationin which communication is greatly facilitated.The absence of both, however, necessitates theadoption of some of the heuristics mentionedhere - and even then, communication may beimpaired.The heuristics identified above assumethat the speaker takes the responsibil ity forthe efficacy of the communication.
Speakersin general, though, can assume that they sharewith the listener certain communicativeprinciples of the type explicated by Grice(1975).
They can similarly assume thatlisteners have certain heuristics fordetermining what assumptions the speaker ismaking about the audience and whether or notthey as listeners fit those assumptions.Because they have this faith in theirlisteners, speakers sometimes just "broadcast"a remark, leaving it to the listener to decidewho the intended audience is.
Some of theselistener's heuristics for interpretingbroadcast utterances are described in the nextsection.1386.
Hearers' Heuristics for "Broadcast"UtterancesIntegral to a listener's understanding ofany utterance is a model of the speaker'smodel of the hearer.
Where there is somemismatch between this model and the listenerhimself, it may be difficult for him to figureout what the speaker really intended tocommunicate.
In language experiences wherethe listener suspects that the speaker isbroadcasting -- that is, not being carefulabout specifying an audience - he must"broadreceive", using some heuristics fordeciding whether or not he should consider theremark to be addressed to him.One general technique a listener mightuse is to compare the intended effect of theutterance with his current state.
If he hasalready fulfilled the effect, he can considerthe remark to be addressed elsewhere.Commands have clear intended effects, so it isrelatively simple for a listener to use thisheuristic with such speech acts.
A member ofa congregation who is already standing whenthe minister says "Please stand up" willunderstand that the utterance is not meant forhim, rather than yelling out, "I already am!
".Signs are another medium in which thisbroadcast behavior is apparent.
A sign askingpatients to PLEASE REGISTER WITH THERECEPTIONIST is clearly meant only for thosewho haven't already done so; if patientsdidn't use this heuristic, they would findthemselves in an infinite loop of registering.A somewhat more complex example is thefamiliar airport announcement: Extinguish allsmoking materials and have your boarding passready."
which selects two different subsets ofthe audience which hears it - those who aresmoking and those who do not yet have theirboarding passes ready.Deciding on the intended effect of anutterance is no mean trick, of course; thespeech act literature, (e.g., Austin (1962),Searle (1969)), makes this clear.
Oneinteresting example of the interaction ofthese considerations with those of audience isa subway sign proclaiming SMOKING IS DANGEROUSTO YOUR HEALTH.
The intended effect may beseen either as getting smokers to give uptheir habit or as telling smokers andnon-smokers alike that smoking is nothealthful.
In the first case, the intendedaudience i3 smaller than in the second.Although this more restricted audience isimplied by the use of "you" on the sign, itseems plausible that the informational effectand, therefore, the larger audience isintended as well.
A non-smoker'sinterpretation of the sign is then a complexprocess, involving an awareness of the twopossible audiences for the message.Finally, and most obviously, speakersassume that hearers will make use of pragmaticclues to determine whether they are part ofthe intended audience.
A volleyball playeryelling "I'll set" assumes that only themembers of her team will attend to the remark;she doesn't need to preface it with a directaddress to her teammates.
Similarly, the sameplayer calling "You hit" hopes that thepragmatic context is strong enough that theone person who is the intended audience canidentify herself.7 ?
SummaryThis admittedly brief discussion of thespecificity of audiences is meant toillustrate the kinds of considerations anarrow focus on a single language experiencemight overlook.
It is clear from just thesefew examples that the process of planning aspeech act must utilize heuristics like thoselisted above and that speakers, models oflisteners must contain some explicitrepresentation of the size and specificity ofthe audience.
These insights would not havearisen had we restricted ourselves totwo-person conversations.
Themulti-dimensional space developed in thispaper provides eight dimensions which canprovoke similar investigations and a frameworkin which to integrate the results.A Qkn owledgement sI would like to thank Chip Bruce for commentson earlier versions of this paper, MitchMarcus, Barbara Grosz and A1 Stevens for helpwith examples, and Jill O'Brien for preparingthe final document.This research was supported by the NationalInstitute of Education under Contract No.US-NIE-C-400-76-0116.139Referenee~Austin, J.~.
How to do _ ThingsHarvard University Press,Massachusetts, 1962.w i~ Wozds.Cambridge,Clark, Herbert H. and Marshall, Catherine.Definite ReferenDe and M~tual Knowledge.
Paperpresented at the Sloan Workshop onComputational Aspects of Linguistic Structureand Discourse Setting, University ofPennsylvania, May 1978.Cohen, Philip R. Qn Knowing What ..to.. Soy:Planning S~ech Acts.
PhD Thesis, Universityof Toronto, Computer Science Department, 1978.deLaguna, G. Soeech: .... Its function ~a~ddevelo~ent.
College Park, Maryland: McGrathCo., 1970 (Reprint of 1927 edition).Grice, H.P., Logic and Conversation.
In D.Davidson and G. Harman (Eds.)
The Logic ofGrammar, Encino, California: DickensonPublishing Company, 1975.Grosz, Barbara J.
The reores~ntation and useof focus i~  dialogue understanding, PhDThesis, University of California at Berkeley,Computer Science Department, May 1977.Keenan, E., & Scheffelin, B.
Topic as adiscourse notion.
In hi (Ed.
), Subject ~ndtopic.
Academic Press, 1976.Rubin, Ann D. A Theoretical Taxonomy of theDifferences Between 0ral and Written Language.To appear in R. Spiro, B. Bruce and W.
Brewer(Eds.
), Theoretical Is~ue~ in ~d inge ~ ,  Hillsdale, N.J.: LawrenceErlbaum, 1978, in press.
Also as Center forthe Study of Reading, Technical Report No.
35,1978.Schallert, D.L., Kleiman, G.M., & Rubin, A.D.Analyses of differences between written andoral language.
Center for the Study ofReading, Technical Report No.
29, April 1977.Searle, J.R. SDeech acts: An Essay in theph?L~soDhv Qf language.
Cambridge: CambridgeUniversity Press, 1969.Sidner, Candace L. A Progress Report Qn theDfseQur~e ~d Reference Compo~enhs ok PAL.
AIMemo 463, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory,Massachusetts Institute of Technology,Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1978.Sticht, Thomas G., Beck, Lawrence J., Hauke,Robert N., Kleiman, Glenn M., and James, JamesH.
&uding ~nd ReaHing: A Developmental Model.Human Resources Research Organization,Alexandria, Virginia, 1974.Tanz, C. Studies in the aoQu?sit%on of deictic~erms, PhD Thesis, University of Chicago,Department of Psychology, August, 1976.140
