The Representation of Derivable Information in Memory:When What Might Have Been Left Unsaid Is SaidRand J. Spiro, Joseph Esposito, and Richard J. VondruskaCenter for the Study of ReadingUniversity of Illinois at Urbana-ChampaignIt is now widely accepted that natural lan-guage comprehension is a constructive process.Information in discourse interacts with a varietyof impinging contextual factors (including, mostprominently, the comprehender's pre-existingknowledge) in an active, creative process thatresults in understandings not derivable by anysolely linguistic or logical analysis (c.f.,Bransford & McCarrell, 1975; Spiro, 1977, inpress).
Acceptance of the constructive view ofcomprehension entails a concomitant delimitationof the range of possible theories of mentalrepresentation.
Knowledge structures must possesssome capability for detecting the pragmatic, aswell as logical, implications of the incompletedata contained in discourse (c.f., Charniak,1974; Mlnsky, 1975; Rumelhart & Ortony, 1977;Schank & Abelson, 1977).
In other words, know-ledge structures must contain considerableinformation about the way the world usually works.This characteristic of representation is usefuland efficient because natural and social contextsdo produce sufficient constraints on worldlyevents and ideas as to make them, to a limitedextent, orderly and predictable.However,a point often overlooked is thatthese same knowledge structures, with theirinformation about the world's orderliness, mayallow for more efficient processing and memorialrepresentation of explicit information in dis-course, in addition to their role in derivingimplicit information.
This paper will be con-cerned with the psychological processing of(imperfectly) Predictable or derivable informa-tion that is nevertheless explicit in discourse.Predictable Information in DiscourseDespite the fact that most research oninferential processes in comprehension has beenconcerned with generation of implicit informa-tion, much inferentially related informationis embodied explicitly in discourse.
We arereferring here primarily to pragmatic inferences,i.e., implications that are usually but notnecessarily true.
Language is infrequentlycharacterized by absolute redundancy; semanticcontent is rarely "repeated," except for specialpurposes such as emphasis.
However, pragmaticinferences are only imperfectly predictable.
Ifyou read that a karate champion hit a block,uncertainty is reduced by also reading that theblock broke, despite the fact that that outcomeis usually to be expected.
Similarly, it wouldnot be considered unusual when relating theevents at a birthday party to mention that therewas a cake with candles blown out by thecelebrant.
Many things go in stereotyped waysbut require explicit mention because thestereotype does not describe all possible cases.Throughout this paper, "predictable" is usedas a shorthand for "imperfectly predictable, orcharacterized by significantly less than per-fect uncertainty.
"How is explicit but predictable informationprocessed?
As was mentioned above, attentionhas been primarily devoted to the processingof implicit predictable information, leavinglittle guidance on the present issue.
However,in a variety of theoretical orientations, thereis a common implication about how predictableinformation would be dealt with: simply put,explicit information, whether predictable ornot, receives sufficient processing to beencoded in long-term memory.
For example,Kintsch (1974) assumes "that subjects processand store \[an inference\] whether or not it ispresented explicitly" (p. 154).
It is difficultto imagine discourse representation theorists,who argue for the explicit representation inmemory of implicit inferences (e.g.,Frederiksen, 1975; Meyer, 1974), arguing thatexplicit inferences are not represented.
Inschema theories (e.g., Rumelhart & Ortony,1977), explicit discourse information is usedto bind schema variables, again suggestingthat predictable information would receiveexplicit mental representation.
If anything,one would expect existing theories to predictthat explicit inferences would receive astronger memorial representation than un-predictable information, given their greatercontextual support.
For example, in theirassociative network model, HAM, Anderson andBower (1973) argued that the greater the numberof interconnections between information, thegreater the likelihood that information withinthe interconnected network would be recalled.This view will be referred to as the "storageof explicit inferences" (SEI) hypothesis.An alternative hypothesis is that predictableinformation, however central to a discourse,is taken for granted, processed only super-ficially and receives an attenuated cognitiverepresentation or no enduring representation226at all.
f needed subsequently, it can be de-rived.
This view will be referred to as the"superficial processing of explicit inferences"(SPEI) hypothesis.
Processing explicit inferencesin such a manner has the advantage of a cognitiveeconomy of representation (besides a likely reduc-tion in processing time).
Most information thatis acquired will never be used again.
It wouldthen seem to be more efficient to devote extraprocessing effort to the occasions when theinformation is needed (i.e., by deriving it whenremembering) rather than exerting effort towardstable encoding at the time of comprehension.Experiments on the Representation ofExplicit InferencesThere are considerable problems in designingan empirical test of the hypothesis that explicitpragmatic inferences in discourse are not repre-sented in long-term memory.
If one merely testsmemory for the inference, failure to remembercould be attributed to not storing the informa-tion or to storing and then forgetting it; if theinference is remembered, it could be because itwas stored and then retrieved, or it may havebeen generated at the time of test without havingbeen stored.Spiro and Esposito (1977) developed a para-digm not subject to the ambiguities of interpre-tation of the more simple design discussed above.The primary manipulation of interest involvedsubsequently vitiating the force of an earlierexplicit inference.
If the inference is notstored, certain predictable errors in recallingit should be made.In the first experiment, subjects were pre-sented stories which contained information A, B,and C such that B was strongly implied by Aexcept in the presence of C. For example, theA, B, and C elements in one story (about a demon-stration by a karate champion) could be para-phrased as follows:A: The karate champion hit the block.B: The block broke.C: He had had a fight with his wifeearlier.
It was impairing hisconcentration.C was either presented prior to A and 8 (C-Before),after A and B (C-After), or not at all (No-C).When C was not included in the story, if SPEIis correct, the B element should be taken forgranted, processed only superficially, and notstably represented.
It would be derivable ifneeded.
However, if C is presented after A andB, memory for B should be impaired since B wasnot stored and C will block its derivation fromA at the time of test.
On the other hand, if Coccurs in the text prior to A and B, then B isnot strongly implied by A.
B cannot be takenfor granted with the assumption that it can begenerated later if needed.
Here B should bestably represented and memory for B should notbe impaired.However, if SEI is correct, memory for Bshould not be affected by whether C is before orafter A and B, since B is stored whether it isimplied by A (C-After) or not implied by A(C-Before).
Two objections to this argumentcan be made.
The information might be stored,but remembering C might lead to a decisionthat the memory for B must be mistaken (akind of output interference).
However, C ispresent whether it occurs before or after A andB, so such an explanation would not accountfor differential effects of C-placement.
Theother possibility is that B is represented inC-After, but the representation is alteredor corrected when the C information is encoun-tered.
This possibility was investigated inthe second experiment.In the first experiment, the followingpredictions of the SPEI hypothesis were tested.More errors in response to questions about thepresented predictable information (B) shouldbe made in the C-After than in the C-Beforeconditions.
Errors can be erroneous judgmentsthat nothing about the implied informationwas presented, called B-Mention errors (e.g.,the story did not mention whether the blockwas broken), or, when the subject believesthat something about B was mentioned, re-membering incorrectly what was specificallysaid in the direction of conforming with theC information, called B-Incorrect errors(e.g., it said in the story that the blockdid not break when he'hit it).
Confidence inerrors of the latter kind were also analyzed.If subjects are as confident about theseerrors as they are about their accurateresponses, it would be even more difficult tomaintain the hypothesis that the explicit in-ferences were represented.In the No-C condition, B-Mention errors mayoccur since B would not be represented accordingto the SPEI hypothesis.
The more importantprediction regarding the No-C condition isthat B-Incorrect errors should not occur moreoften than in the C-Before condition.
Other-wise, the differences between C-Before andC-After might be attributable to heightenedaccuracy due to greater salience of the impliedinformation in the former condition ratherthan greater inaccuracy due to a failure tostore the implied information in the lattercondition.College subjects read eight targetvignettes each containing A and B information,and C information included or not and placedas a function of which of the three conditionssubjects were randomly assigned to.
C informa-tion was always on a separate page from the Aand B information, and subjects were instructedto not look back after reading a page.
Afterreading all the vignettes, the subjects weretested for their memory for the vignettes.Of particular interest were the two types ofquestions, mentioned above, concerning the Binformation (remember, B was always explicitin the stories).The results supported the hypothesis thatpragmatic inferences presented in text aresuperficially processed and do not receive a227stable and enduring representation in memory.
Inthe C-After condition, subjects tended either toreport that the inference was not presented in thetext or that the opposite of the inference waspresented.
Furthermore, confidence in theseerrors was as high as confidence in correct mem-ories.
It is difficult to retain the notion thatinferences are deeply processed and stably encodedwhen the C-After manipulation can produce errorslike remembering the block was not broken whenthe karate champion hit it.
The results cannotbe attributed to interference produced by theinference-vitiating C information at output,since the C-Before subjects would also be subjectto such interference.
Neither can the results beattributed to differential availability of C atoutput, perhaps due to primacy/recency effectsrelated to the position of C in the text, sincethe information was almost always recalled.
Also,unimportance of the B informtion is not a viablealternative since B tended to be central to thestory (e.g., in a story about a karate champion'sperformance, information about his success in thedemonstration is certainly important).One alternative interpretation that remainsis that subjects do deeply process and stablyencode the presented inference, but "correct"their representation when the inference-vitiatinginformation is presented.
If subjects are storingB and then changing or correcting it at the timeC is presented, errors on B'should occur in theC-After condition no matter how soon the test isadministered after reading.
However, if the SPEIhypothesis is correct, when delay intervals arebrief enough some surface memory for the super-ficially processed B information may remain,reducing the number of B errors.
Accordingly,in the second experiment subjects were testedeither immediately after reading each story(Interspersed Questions condition) or, as in thefirst experiment, after the entire set of storieshad been read (Questions-After condition).
Again,the C-Before and C-After manipulations wereemployed.The results of the second experiment repli-cated those of the first one in the Questions-After condition.
Furthermore, the C-aftereffect was largely absent in the InterspersedQuestions condition, demonstrating that theeffect is not due to storing and then changingthe representation of the B information (theexplicit inference).Related IssuesThe discussion of implications of the super-ficial processing effect will at times be limitedto reading rather than listening.
Most of thefollowing is of a speculative nature.Representation and Underlying MechanismsAssuming some compatible representationsystem, what characterizes the processes thatproduce the superficial processing effect?
Atthis time, only speculations about alternativepossibilities can be offered.
There are threepotentially beneficial aspects of superficialprocessing of explicit predictable information:cognitive economy (the information need not bespecifically stored in long-term memory), speedof processing (you can process and understandsuch information rapidly), and automaticity ofprocessing (less conscious effort and workingmemory space are required).Two simple, preliminary accounts of thefirst factor, cognitive economy, can be offered.The superficial processing phenomenon appearsmost compatible with a schema-theoretic modeof representation.
Perhaps variable bindingsthat are default (or at least high probability)values are not explicitly instantiated whenthey are explicit in discourse (but see thediscussion of Determinants of PerformanceVariability below).
However, one should notbe overly persuaded by the simplicity of suchan account.
Other types of representationsystems could also account for the phenomenon.For example, a spreading activation model(e.g., Collins & Loftus, 1975) might predictthat explicit information is not tagged inmemory when it has been recently activated withsome greater than criterion strength.
Thisissue will receive further discussion in thenext section.Regarding speed of processing, severalpossibilities may be offered: the informationis actual\]y predicted, perhaps followed by aselective scanning for partial clues of con-firmation (e.g., the word "broke" in the karatechampion example; perhaps such checks could bemade in the visual periphery and, when posi-tive, result in saccades that skip the predictedinformation); or the expectation may be formedafter beginning to read the predictable informa-tion followed by skipping ahead to the nextlinguistic unit ("Oh.
They're talking aboutthis now.
Well there's no doubt how it willturn out.
I can pass this by.
"); or temporarybinding of a schema variable (essentially averification of fit) may be more rapid thanmore durable instantiation; or less metacognitiveactivity (pondering, studying, rehearsing,etc.)
may be devoted to predictable information,given its derivability (this also relates toautomaticity, obviously).
Regarding auto-maticity, it seems likely that the amount ofconscious processing required would be nega-tively correlated with the goodness of fit toprior knowledge.
Thus conscious attempts tomake sense of predictable information would beexpected less often.
Also, related to thesuggestions above regarding expectations andrapidity of processing, the operation of somepreattentive process (in the sense of Neisser,1967) is a possibility.
Naturally, it may bethe case that all of these factors are con-tributing.
However, some of the factors maybe mutually exclusive.
For example, if defaultvalues are processed automatically, an expecta-tion and confirmation process may be redundant.Determinants of Performance VariabilityOccurrence of superficial processing andfailure to store information probably depends onmore than predictability or derivability con-sidered in isolation.
For one thing, the228derivability of other information in the dis-course will have an effect.
The greater theproportion of fit to one's schemata for the dis-course as a whole, the more likely it is thatconforming information will be left to be de-rived.
If a story takes place in a restaurant,and all the restaurant-related information istypical, then that aspect of the story can bestored with the abstract schema node "typicalrestaurant activities."
However, when the pro-portion of fit is poor, i.e., some atypicalevents occur, even typical, predictable eventsmay have to be stored.Occurrence of superficial processing isalso likely to be affected by the extent towhich the system is taxed.
When the system isoverloaded, as when there is a large amount ofinformation to be acquired or the time toacquire the information is limited, more super-ficial processing and leaving of informationto be derived probably goes on.
Perhaps thesystem has flexible criteria for derivability,reducing criteria under overload conditions andincreasing them when processing load is light(and when demands for recall accuracy are highor when subsequent availability of the informa-tion is limited).
Briefly digressing, there maybe a temptation to confuse superficial pro-cessing of derivable information with skimming.However, skimming is a selective seeking andthen deep processing of situationally importantinformation (see FRUMP, in Schank & Abelson,1975) whereas superficial processing involvesselectively not processing deeply informationperceived as derivable, however important itmight be.
In other words, the same informationthat might receive more attention while skimmingmay receive less attention in normal situationsif the information is derivable.
This willhappen to the extent that skimming results inshallow processing of earlier information thatis the basis for the derivability of the laterinformation.Besides context-based variability inderivability criteria, research in the psychologyof prediction indicates the potential operationof a general bias in determining the criterionfor derivability and superficial processing.For example, Fischoff (1975, 1977) has foundthat when people are told that some event hasoccurred, they increase their subjectiveprobability estimate of the likelihood thatthe event was going to occur.
Similarly, estima-tion of how much was known before being given acorrect answer increases when the answer isprovided.
In the case of superficial processingof information in discourse, it is possible thatthe derivability of information is overestimatedafter it is explicitly encountered.
It seemsto be a fairly common experience, for example,to not write down an idea that you are surewill be derivable again later, only to findsubsequent derivation impossible.
What is beingsuggested here is a source of forgetting notusually discussed in memory theories: super-ficial processing of information whose deriv-ability has been overestimated.The Form of Expression of Derivable InformationSemantic content, prior knowledge, and taskcontexts are not the only determinants of per-ceived derivability.
The linguistic form inwhich information is expressed will sometimesprovide signals of what information is alreadyknown or can be taken for granted, as wheninformation is expressed near the beginning ofa sentence (c.f., Clark & Haviland, 1977, onthe given-new strategy).
Taking an example fromMorgan and Green (in press), compare sentences(1) and (2).
(1) The government has not yet acknowledgedthat distilled water causes cancer.
(2) That distilled water causes cancer hasnot yet been acknowledged by thegovernment.In (2)of thetilledthere is a stronger implied presumptiontruth of the proposition regarding dis-water and cancer than there is in (1).In general, it seems that placing informa-tion in a sentence-initial subordinate clauselowers the superficial processing criterion.Consider continuations (3) and (4) of "Thekarate champion hit the block.
"(3) The block broke, and then he bowed.
(4) After the block broke, he bowed.The block's breaking would appear to be moretaken for granted in (4) than in (3).Linguistic signals of predictability orderivability need not be implicit.
Considercontinuations (5), (6), and (7) of the samesentence as above.
(5) Obviously, the block broke.
(6) As you would expect, the block broke.
(7) Naturally, the block broke.Words like "clearly" and phrases like "ofcourse" are explicit linguistic signals thatinformation to follow is predictable and canbe superficially processed.
However, one wouldexpect that such signals could have their effectonly for information within an acceptable rangeof plausibility.
That is, a plausible but notpredictable continuation may be more likely tobe taken (erroneously) as predictable whenpreceded by a linguistic signal.
However, ifthe information contains salient implausibleaspects or something clearly irrelevant, asignalling phrase such as "as you would expect ~'might result in more attention being devotedto the continuation information.Implications for the Nature of Discourse MemoryTo the extent that discourse is super-ficially processed, memory must be reconstructiverather than reproductive.
Rather than re-trieving traces or instantiations of pastexperience, the past must be inferred or derived.Just as a paleontologist reconstructs a dinosaurfrom bone fragments, the past must be recon-structed from the incomplete data explicitlystored.
Evidence for such reconstructive229processes has been provided by Spiro (1977), whofound a pervasive tendency for subjects to pro-duce predictable meaning-changing distortionsand importations in text recall under certainconditions.
In general, when subsequently en-countered information contradicted continuationexpectations derived from a target story, thestory frequently was reconstructed in such a wayas to reconcile or cohere with the continuationinformation.
This process of inferring the pastbased on the present was termed accommodative re-construction.
After a long retention interval,subjects tended to be more confident that theiraccommodative recall errors had actually beenincluded in the story than they were confidentabout the accurate aspects of their recall.
Whyshould such gross errors occur and then beassigned such high confidence?
Part of the answersurely involves their function in producing co-herence.
Still, it is somewhat surprising thatsubjects should be so sure they read informationthat bore not even a distant inferential relation-ship to what they actually did read.Spiro suggested that the basis for such aneffect may be in the way information is treatedat the time of comprehension; namely, it issuperficially processed and not stored in long-term memory.
Then, when remembering, individualsshould know (at least tacitly) that considerableamounts of predictable or derivable informationthey have encountered will not be available inmemory.
In that case, recall would typicallyinvolve deriving a lot of missing information.Accordingly, it would not be surprising thatsubjects faced with memories that lack coherencewould assume that missing reconciling informationwas presented but only superficially processedat comprehension.
The information could thenbe derived at recall with high confidence.
Hencethe capacity for restructuring the past based onthe present.Individual DifferencesA final caveat should be offered regardingthe superficial processing effect, but alsoapplicable to all research on schema-based pro-cesses in comprehension and memory.
The assump-tion is usually made that there are no qualita-tive differences between individuals in themanner in which discourse is processed.
How-ever, Spiro and his colleagues have recentlyfound that reliable style differences can bepredicted in children (Spiro & Smith, 1978) andin college students (Spiro & Tirre, in prepara-tion).
Some individuals appear to be more dis-course bound, tending toward over-reliance onbottom-up processes.
Others are more priorknowledge bound, tending toward over-relianceon top-down processes.
For the adult bottom-up readers, prior knowledge obviously must beused to a certain extent in comprehension.
How-ever, where use of prior knowledge is moreoptional, e.g., in providing a scaffolding forremembering information (Anderson, Spiro, &Anderson, 1978), the bottom-up readers capitalizeless.
Whether the latter type of individual willevince less knowledge-based superficial pro-cessing (again an optional use of prior know-ledge) is a question currently under investiga-tion.ReferencesAnderson, J. R., & Bower, G. H. Human associa-tive memory.
New York: Wiley, 1973.Anderson, R. C., Spiro, R. J., & Anderson, M. C.Schemata as scaffolding for informationin text.
American Educational ResearchJournal, 1978, in press.Bransford, J. D., & McCarrell, N. S. A sketchof a cognitive approach to comprehension.In W. B. Weimer and D. S. Palermo (Eds.
),Cognition and the symbolic processes.Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum, 1975.Charniak, E. Organization and inference ina frame-like system of common senseknowledge.
In proceedings of Theoreticalissues in natural language processing.Cambridge, Mass.
: Bolt Beranek & NewmanInc., 1975.Clark, H. H., & Haviland, S. E. Comprehensionand the given-new contract.
In R.Freedle (Ed.
), Discourse processing.Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum, 1978.Collins, A. M., & Loftus, E. F. A spreadingactivation theory of semantic processing.Psychological Review, 1975, 8._2_2, 407-428.Fischoff, B.
Hindsight # foresight: Theeffect of outcome knowledge on judgmentunder uncertainty.
Journal of Experi-mental Psychology: Human Perceptionand Performance, 1975, i, 288-299.Kintsch, W. The representation of meaning inmemory.
Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum, 1974.Minsky, M. A framework for representing know-ledge.
In P. H. Winston (Ed.
), Thepsychology of computer vision.
New York:McGraw-Hill, 1975.Morgan, J. L., & Green, G. M. Pragmatics andreading comprehension.
In R. J. Spiro,B.
C. Bruce, and W. F. Brewer (Eds.
),Theoretical issues in reading comprehen-sion: Perspectives from cognitivepsychology, linguistics, artificialintelligence, and education.
Hillsdale,N.J.
: Erlbaum, in press.Neisser, U. Cognitive psychology.
New York:Appleton-Century-Crofts, 1967.Rumelhart, D. E., & Ortony, A.
The representa-tion of knowledge in memory.
In R. C.Anderson, R. J. Spiro, and W. E.
Montague(Eds.
), Schoolin 9 and the acquisitionof knowledge.
Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum,1977.Schank, R. C., & Abelson, R. P. Scripts,plans, goals, and understanding.Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum, 1977.230Spiro, R. J. Remembering information from text:The "State of Schema" approach.
In R. C.Anderson, R. J. Spiro, and W. E.
Montague(Eds.
), Schooling and the acquisition ofknowledge.
Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum, 1977.Spiro, R. J.
Constructive processes in textcomprehension and recall.
In R. J. Spiro,B.
C. Bruce, and W. F. Brewer (Eds.
),Theoretical issues in reading comprehen-sion: Perspectives from cognitive psy-chology, linguistics, artificial intelli-gence, and education.
Hillsdale, N.J.:Erlbaum, in press.Spiro, R. J., & Esposito, J. Superficial pro-cessing of explicit inferences in text(Tech.
Rep. No.
60).
Urbana, Ill.: Centerfor the Study of Reading, University ofIllinois, 1977.Spiro, R. J., & Smith, D. Distinguishing sub-types of poor comprehenders: Patterns ofover-reliance on conceptual- vs. data-driven processes (Tech.
Rep. No.
61).Urbana, Ill.: Center for the Study ofReading, University of Illinois, 1978.Frederiksen, C. H. Representing logical andsemantic structure of knowledge acquiredfrom discourse.
Cognitive Psychology,1975, ~, 371-458.Meyer, B. J. F. The organization of prose andits effects on memory.
Amsterdam: NorthHolland, 1975.FootnoteThis research was supported by the NationalInstitute of Education under Contract No.
US-NIE-C-400-76-0116.231
