The Problem of Naming Shapes:Vision-Language InterfacebyR.
Baj csy*andA.K.
Joshi ~=Computer and Information Science DepartmentUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104i.
IntroductionIn this paper, we wi l lpose more questionsthan present solutions.
We want to raise somequestions in the context of the representation ofshapes of 3-D objects.
One way to get a handle onthis problem is to investigate whether labels ofshapes and their acquisition reveals any structureof attributes or components of shapes that mightbe used for representation purposes.
Anotheraspect of the puzzle of representation is thequestion whether the information is to be storedin analog or propositional form, and at what levelthis transformation from analog to propositionalform takes place.In general, shape of a 3-D compact object hastwo aspects: the surface aspect, and the volume" The surface aspect includes propertiesncavity, convexity, planarity of surfaces,edges, and corners.
The volume aspect distin-guishes objects with holes from those without(topological properties), and describes objectswith respect to their sy~netry planes and axes,relative proportions, etc.We will discuss some questions pertinent torepresentation of a shape of a 3-D compact object,without holes, for example: Is the surfaceaspect more important than the volume aspect?Are there any shape primitives?
In what formare shape attributes stored?, etc.
We shallextensively draw from psychological and psycho-linguistic literature, as well as from the recentAI activities in this area.2.
Surface and VolumeIn this section, we will investigate therelationship between the surface aspect andthe volume aspect from the developmental pointof view and from the needs of a recognitionprocess.
By doing so, we hope to learn aboutthe representation of shapes.
Later, we willexamine the naming process for shapes and its re-lation to representation.
* This work has been supported under NSF Grant#MCS76-19465 and NSF Grant #MCS76-19466.There is evidence that a silhouette of an ob-ject, that is its boundary with respect to thebackground, is the determining factor for the rec-ognition of the object (Rock 1975, Zusne 1970).If we accept the above hypotheses then the factthat the silhouette is a projected outline of the3-D object implies that the recognition of the 3-Dobject at first is reduced to the recognition of a2-D outline.
This is not entirely true, however,as Gibson (Gibson 1950) has argued.
According toGibson's theory, the primitives of form perceptionare gradients of various variables as opposed tothe absolute values of these variables.
From thisfollows the emphasis on perceiving the surfacefirst and the perception of the outline only fallsout as a consequence of discontinuities of thesurface with respect to the background.We are pursuaded by Gibson's argument and re-gard the recognition process as starting with sur-face properties; Miller and Johnson-Laird (Miller &Johnson-Laird 1976) have suggested some surfacepredicates as possible primitives, such as convex,concave, planar, edge, and corner.
The 2-D out-line is furthermore analyzed as a whole accordingto the Gestalist and some salient features(Pragantz) are detected faster and more frequentlythan others (Koffka 1935, Goldmeir 1972, Rosh1973); such pragmatic features are for example,rectangularity, symmetry, regularity, parallelness,and rectilinearity.Piaget alo argues (Paiget, Inhelder 1956)from the developmental point of view that childrenfirst learn to recognize surfaces and their out-lines, and only later, after an ability to composemultiple views of the same object has been devel-oped, they can form a concept of its volume.Volume representation becomes essential assoon as there is motion of the object or of theobserver.
Note that the salient features of 2-Dshapes are invariant under transformations such asrotation, translation, expansion and shrinking.Features with a similar property must be found inthe 3-D space for the volume representation.
Wefeel that the most important feature is sy~netry.Clark's work seem to support this (Clark 1975);he shows that in language space as in the percep-tual space, we have 3 prlmar~ planes of reference:ground level ; vertical: left-rlght; vertical:front-back.
While the ground level is not a sym-metry plane, the two vertical ones are sy~netry157planes.
The fact that the ground level is not asy~netry plane is supported by the experiments ofRock (Rock 1973), who has shown that some familiarshapes are hard to recognize with 180 ?
rotationwith respect to the ground level.
After a carefulexamination of the relevant literature to date, wefind that there is a claim that we ean recognizeshapes via some features which are ndre salientthan others.
But does it follow from this thatshape is an independent attribute like color, oris it a derived concept from other features?In an effort to answer this question, we setout to examine labels of shapes in the hope thatif there are any shape primitives (other thanangles, edges, paralleLness, and the like) thenthey may show up in labels describing more complexshapes.
One inmediate observation we can make isthat thereare very few names which only describea shape, such as triangle or rectangle.
Moreconmenly, label of a shape is derived from thelabel objects which have such a typical shape, forexample, letter-like shapes (V, L, X), cross-likeshape, pear-like shape, heart-like shape, etc.
Aspecial category of labels are well defined geo-metric objects, such as circle, ellipse, sphere,torus, etc.
The question is whether we store forevery shape a template or whether there are anycon~non primitives from which we can describe dif-ferent shapes.In addition to the 2-D features mentionedearlier, primarily 2-D features, we do use 3-Dshape descriptions (primitives) such as: round,having 3 syn~netryplanes and all the syn~netryaxesapproximately of the same length, elongated,where the size in one dimension is much longerthan thetwo remaining, thin, where the size ofone dimension is much smaller than the other,etc.
Note that many of these descriptions arevague, though often there more accurate shapelabels available; for example, cone stands foran elongated object with two sy~net-ry planes,a circular crossection, and sides taperingevenly up to a point, called appex (Webster'sdicitionary).We believe that there are some descrip-tions of shapes which aremore primitive thanothers; for example, round, elongated, thin,flat, circular, planar, etc., as opposed toheart-like, star-like, and so on.
As pointedout earlier, these latter~ descriptors arederived from the names of previously recognizedobjects.
When we use these descriptions duringa recognition process we do not necessarilymatch exactly all features of the templateshape to the recognized shape, but rather wedepict some characteristic properties weassociate wi~h the given label, and only theseare matched during the recognition process.In this sense, we approximate the real data to ourmodel and primitives.
The labels which encompassandre  complex structure of these properties (likecone, heart, star, etc.)
when they are used indescribing other shapes, are used as economicalshorthand expressions for the complexity thatthese shapes represent.
(This appears to be re-lated to the eodability notion of Chafe (Chafe1975)).3.
Analog and Propositional RepresentationIn this section, we will discuss certainissues concerning the form of the stored informa-tion, necessary not only for recognition purposes(matching the perceived data with a stored model)but also for recall, and introspection of images.There are two questions:i.
At which level the analog inform/tion is con-verted to propositional (verbal or non-verbal)and after this conversion, is the analog in-formation retained?2.
How much of the propositional information isprocedural and how much structural?For simplicity, we will regard analog infor-mation in our context as picture points, or retinapoints.
Any further labeling, of a point or of acluster of points, such as an edge, line, region,etc.
leads to derived entities by one criterion oranother and therefore may be regarded as proposi-tional.
*At this point, it is appropriate to point outthat any such unit as an edge, line or region canbe described in at least two different ways; oneis structural or organizational, and the other isparametric or dimensional.
Structural informationrefers to the organization of perceptual elementsinto groups.
Figure-ground and part-whole rela-tionships are paradigm examples of structural in-formation.
Parametric information refers to thecontinuous values of the stimulus along variousperceivable dimensions.
Color, size, position,orientation, and sy~netry, are some examples ofparametric information.We are not advocating that these two types ofinformation are independent (cf.
Palmer 1975).
Itis, for example, a well known experience that bychanging drastically one dimension (one parameter)of an object (say a box), one can change thestructure of the object (in this case, it becomesa wall-like object).
However, we do wish to keepthe distinction between structural and parametricinformation.
The importance of this distinctionis that while structural information is inherentlydiscrete and propositional, parametric information,is both holistic (integral) and atomic (separable).The fact that parametric information is separableis quite obvious if we just recognize that differ-parameters represent clearly distinguishable dif-ferent aspects of the visual information.
Forexample, color, size, position, etc.
On the otherhand all these parameters are representedholistically in an image, and can be separatedonly by feature (parameter) extraction procedures(Palmer 1975).Parametric information is separable; however,the question is whether each parameter-featureThe distinction is not really as sharp asstated here.
One way to make the distinctionis to look at the closeness with which a trans-formation of a representation parallels thetransformation of the object renresented.
Thecloser it is the more analog the representationis.158has continuous or discrete values.
Continuousvalues would imply some retainment of analog in-formation (Kossylyn 1977), while discrete valueswould not.
Opponents of the discrete value rep-resentationargue that a) the number of primitivesneeded would be astronomical, and b) the number ofpotential relationships between primitives wouldbe also very large (Fishier 1977).
This isfurther supported byexperiments on recall ofmental images (Kosslyn, Shwartz 1977) where theseimages appear in continuous-analog fashion.Another similar argument in favor of analog rep-resentation is the experiment of comparing objectswith respect to some of their parameters, likesize, or experiments on mental rotation (Shepard,Metzler 1971).Pylyshyn (Pylyshyn 1977) cautiously arguesagainst the analog representation for the sameobject viewed under different conditions as aresult of the semantic interpretation function(SIF).
The SIF will extract only those invariancescharacteristic for the object in a given situation,and thus reduce the number of possible discretevalues and their range for a given parameter.
Theinvariances are determined by laws of physics andoptics, and by the context, i.e., the object sizeswill remain fixed as they move, the smaller ob-jects will partially occlude the larger object,etc.We would like to propose a discrete valuerepresentation for parametric information with anassociated interpolation function (sampling is aninverse of interpolation) and a clustering pr O-cedure.
During the recognition process, aclustering procedure is evoked in order to cate-gorize a parameter while during an image recallan interpolation procedure is applied to generatethe continuous data.
Our model seems not tocontradict Kosslyn's findings, that is we assumeas he does, that the deep representation of animage consists of stored facts about the imagein a propositional format.
Facts include infor-mation about:a) How and where a part is attached to the wholeobjeet.b) How to find a given part.e) A name of the category that the object belongsto.d) The range of the size of the object, whichimplies the resolution necessary to see theobject or part.e) The name of the file which contains visualfeatures that the object is composed of(corners, edges, curvature descriptions ofedge segments, their relationships, etc.
).The only place where we differ from Kossyln'smodel is in the details of the perceptual memory.While his perceptual memory contains coordinatesfor every point, our perceptual memory has iden-tified and stored clusters of these points, likecorners, edges, lines, etc.
From these featuresand the interpolation procedure, we create thecontinuous image.
This is very much in the spiritof a constructive vision theory as proposed byKosslyn and others.
A similar argument can beused for preserving continuity in transformationof images, such as rotation (Shepard, Metzler1971) and expansion (Kosslyn 1975, 1976).
Thecontraction process is the inverse of expansionand therefore will envoke the sampling routineinstead of the interpolation routine.
The problemof too many discrete values and their relation-ships, as stated by Fishier, is taken care of bythe fact that for each parameter there is an asso-ciated range with only a few categories such assmall, medium, and large.
As pointed out byPylyshyn, it is the range of parameters which iscontext dependent and thus differs from situationto situation.
This view also offers some explana-tion that often incomplete figures are perceivedas whole.We also want to postulate that analog infor-mation, as we specified it, is not retained, andif there are ambiguities due to the inadequacy ofthe input data, a new set of data is inputed.This is supported by several psychological experi-ments, for example, by asking-people to recognizea building where they work from accurate drawingsand sloppy pictures (Norman 1975).
The over-whelming evidence is that people prefer a sloppypicture to the more accurate one, for recognizingtheir own building.
Even the experiment ofAverbach and Sperling (Averbach and Sperling 1968)concerning the visual short memory after 1/20 seeexposure to letters does not contradict our hy-pothesis that we maintain in this ease, edgesrather than picture points, although it allows theother interpretation as well.We now turn to the second question.
Sincepropositional information can be represented byan equivalent procedure (giving a true or a f&isevalue), the question of propositional informationvs struetural information can be replaced by thequestion: What are the necessary procedures thathave to be performed during a recognition processand what type of data they require?
Clearly, theparametric information is derived pronedurally.There are well defined procedures for findingcolor, size, orientation, etc.
The part-wholerelationship as well as the instance relationshipclearly have to be structurally represented(Miller and Johnson-Laird 1977).While the structural information is derivedfrom symbolic - propositional data and the trans-formations performed are, for example, reductions,and expansions, the parametric information isderived from the perceptual data and the transfor-mations performed are more like measurements,detections, and geometric transformations.In the context of 3-D shape representationwe believe in a combination of procedural - para-metric and propositional nodes organized in astructure.
Take an example of representing ashape of a human.
We have the part-whole rela-tionship: head, neck, torso, arms, legs, etc.Head has parts: eye, nose, mouth, etc.
Theseconcepts are propositional - symbolic.
From theshape point of view, however, head is round, neckis short and wide elongated blob, the arms andlegs are elongated and the torso is elongated butwide.
Although these labels correspong to 2-Das well as 3-D shape, there is a mechanism: pro-jection transformation which transforms elongated3-D into elongated 2-D shape.
In any case, rotund,159elongated, wide, short, are procedures - testswhether an object is round, elongated, etc.- Weknow that round (circle) in 2-D corresponds tosphere in 3-D, elongated (rectangle, or ellipse)to a polyhedra or cylinder, or ellipsoid.When we view only one view of a scene or aphotograph, we analyse the 2-D outline.
However,when we have more than one view at our disposalor when we are asked to make 3-D interpretationthen we reach from the 2-D information to corre-sponding 3-D representation.
This is the timewhen volume primitives like sphere, cylinder, andtheir like come into play.
These primitives donot seem to be explicit (we do not say a shape ofa man is a sphere attached to several cylinders)in the representation.
Rather what is in theshape representation are the feature primitives,(like the sy~netryplanes, the ratio of syn~netryaxis) attached to other pointers, which point also,if appropriate, to labels like sphere, cylinder,flat object, polyhedron, etc.
These labels are inturn used for shortening a complex description.An implementation of a 3-D shape deeompositionand labelling system is under development (Bajcsy,Soroka 1977).
Earlier we have experimented witha partially ordered structure as means to repre-sent 2-D shape (Tidhar 1974, Bajcsy, Tidhar 1977)in recognition of outdoor landscapes (Sloan 1977)and in the context of natural language under-standing (Joshi and Rosenschein (1975), Rosenschein(75)).Note that not always are we able to describea shape as a composition of some volume primitiveslike sphere, cylinder, or a flat object.
As anexample in the case is a shape of a heart.
Aheart has 2 sy~netryplanes and it is roughlyround, but its typical features are the twocorners centered, one, concave and the otherconvex connected by a convex smooth surface.
Hereclearly, any attempt to describe this shape, bytwo ellipsoids or some other 'primitive' isartificial.
Thus, the representation will haveonly feature primitives but no volume primitives.Of course, there are cases that fall between.As an example, consider a kidney shape where onecan say it is an ellipsoid with a concavity onone side.What are the implications from all of this?i.
We do not measure or extract spheres, cylin-ders and their like as primitives, but ratherwe measure convexity, eoneavity, planar,corners, symmetry planes, which are primitivefeatures.2.
These features form different structures towhich are attached different but in general,not independent labels.3.
While these structures represent explicit con-ceptual relationships, the nodes are eitherlabels or procedures with discrete valuesdenoting, in general, N-ary relations.4.
ConclusionsIn this paper, we have considered the fol=lowing problems:i.
How mueh of analog information is retainedduring recognition process and at which levelthe transformation from analog to propositionaltakes place?2.
How much of the information stored is pro-cedural (implicit) and structural (explicit)form?3.
What are the primitives for two dimensionaland three dimensional shapes?4.
How is the labelling of shapes effected by theway the shapes are represented?- By studyingthe shape labels can we hope to learn some-thing about the internal representation ofshapes?Clearly, these four questions are intimatelyrelated to the general problem: representation ofthree dimensional objects.We are led to the following conclusions.
Ourconclusions are derived primarily on the basis ofour experience in constructing 2-D and 3-D recog-nition systems and the study of the relevant psyco-logicaland psycholinguistic literature.i.
Analog information is not retained even in ashort term memory.2.
Our experience and the analysis of the relevantliterature leads us to be in favor of the con-structuve vision theory.
The visual informa-tion is represented as structures, with nodeswhich are either unary or n-ary predicates.The structures denote conceptual relationshipssuch as part-whole, class inclusion, cause-effect, ete.3.
The shape primitives are on the level of prim-itive features rather than primitive shapes.By primitive features we mean, corners, con-vex, concave and planar surfaces and theirlike.4.
The labels of shapes, except in a few specialcases, do not describe any shape propertiesand are derived from objects associated withthat shape.5.
In order to preserve continuity, we need inter-polation procedures.
We assume that severalsuch procedures exist, for example, clusteringmechanisms, sampling p~ocedures, perspectivetransformations, rotation, etc.
These areavailable as a general mechanisms for imageprocessing.We certainly have not offered complete solu-tions to all the issues diseussed above, but wehope that we have raised several valid questionsand suggested some approaches.Referencesi.
Averbach, E., and Sperling, G.: Short-TermStorage of Information in Vision in: Con-temporary Theoryand Researeh in Visual Per-~ , (ed.)
R.N.
Haber, NY, Holt, Rinehart ston, Ine.
19682.
Bajcsy, R., and Soroka, B.: Steps towards theRepresentation of Complex Three-DimensionalObjects, Proceedings o n Int.
Artificial Intel-ligemce Conference, Boston, August ig77.1603.4.5.6.7.8.9.i0.ii.12.13.14.15.16.17.Bajcsy, R., and Tidhar, A.: Using a StructuredWorld Model inFlexible Recognition of TwoDimensional Patterns, Pattern Recognition Vol.9, pp.
1-10, 1977.Clark, E.V.
: What's in a Word?
On theChild's Acquisition of Semantics in His Firstlanguage, in: CognitiveDevelopmentand theAcquisition of Imnguage, (ed.)
T.E.
Moore,Academic Press, NY 1973, pp.
65-110.Clark, H.L.
: Space, Time Semantics, and theChild, in: Cognitive Development and theAcquisition of language, (ed.)
T.E.
Moore,Academic Press, NY 1973 pp.
27-63.Chafe, W.L.
: Creativity in Verbalization asEvidence for Analogic Knowledge, Proc.
onTheoretical Issues in Natural language Pro-cessing, Cambridge, June 1975 pp.
144Z145.Fishler, M.A.
: On the Representation ofNatural Scenes, Advanced Papers for The Work-shop on Computer Vision Systems, Univ.
ofMassachusetts, June 1977, Amherst.Gibson, J.J.: The Perception of the VisualWorld, Boston, MA, Houghton, 1950.Goldmeir, E.: Similarity inVisually Per-ceived Forms, Psychological Issues 8, 1972,No.
1 pp.
1-135.Koffka, K.: Principles of Gestalt Psychology,New York, Harcourt, Brace 1935.Kosslyn, S.M.
: Information Representation inVisual Images, Cognitive Psychology\[, pp.341-370, 1975.Kosslyn, S.M.
: Can Imagery Be Distinguishedfrom Other Forms of Internal Representation?Evidence from Studies of Information Retriev-al Times, Memory& Cognition Vol.
4, 1976,No.
3, pp.
291-297.Kosslyn, S.M., and Shwar~z, S.P.
: VisualImages as Spatial Representations inActiveMemory, in: Machine Visions, (eds.)
E.M.Riseman g A.R.
Hanson, NYAcademic Press(in press) 1978.Miller, A., and Johnson-~,  P.N.
:language and PercepTion, Harvard Univ.
Press,Cambridge, MA1976.Norman, D.A., and Bobrow, D.G.
: On the Roleof Active Memory Processes in Perception andCognition, in: C.N.
Cofer (ed.)
TheStructure of Human Memory, San Francisco,W.H.
Freeman, 1975.Palmer, S.E.
: 'The Nature of Perceptual Rep-resentation: An examination of the Analog/Propositional Contraversy, Proc.
on Theoret-ical Issues in Natural Language Processing,Cambridge, June 1975 pp.
151-159.Piaget, J., and Inhelder, B.;Conception o_~fSpace, New York:Press, 1956.The Child'sHumanities18.19.20.21.22.23.24.25.26.27.Pylshyn, Z.W.
: Representation of Knowledge:Non-Linguistic Forms, Proc.
on TheoreticalIssues in Natural Languase Process i~,Camb-~dge, June 1975 pp.
160-163.Rock, I.: Orientation and Form, AcademicPress, Inc. Ny 1973.Rock, I.: An__ Introduction t oPerception,MacMillan Publ.
Co., NY 1975.Rosh, E.H.: 0nthe Internal Structure ofPerceptual and Semantic Categories, in:Cognitive Development and the Acquisition oflanguage.
(ed.)
T.E.
Moore, Academic Press,NY 1973, pp.
111-144.Shepard, R.N., and Metzler, J.: MentalRotation of Three-Dimensional Objects,Science, 171, 1971, pp.
701-703.Tidhar, A.: Using a Structured World Modelin Flexible Recognition of Two DimensionalPattern, Moore School Tech.
Report No.
75-02,Univ.
of Pennsylv--~, Philadelp~a~ 1974.Zusne, L. : Visual Perception of Form,Academic Press, 1970, NY and London.Sloan, K. : World Model Driven Recognitionof Natural Scenes, Ph.D. Dissertation,Computer Science Department, University ofPennsylvania, Philadelphia, June 1977.Joshi, A.K., and Rosensehein, S.J., "AFormalism for Relating Lexical and PragmaticInformation: Its Relevance to Recognitionand Generation", Proc.
of TINIAP Workshop,Cambridge 1975.Rosenschein, S.J., "Structuring a PatternSpace, with Applications to Lexical Informa-tion and Event Interpretation", Ph.D.Dissertation, University of Pennsylvania,Philadelphia, PA 1975.161
