The Relation of Grammar to Cognition--a SynopsisLeonard TalmyProgram in Cognitive Science / Center for Human Information Processing / UC San DiegoAbstractA sentence (or other portion of discourse) istaken to evoke in the listener a meaning complex,here called a "cognitive representation".
The lex-ical elements of the sentence, to simplify, by andlarge specify the content of the cognitive represen-tation, while the grammatical elements specify itsstructure.
Thus, looking systematically at theactual notions specified by grammatical elements cangive us a handle for ascertaining the very makeup of(l~nguistic-) cognitive structuring.
We accordinglyexamine a number of grammatically specified notions,observe the categories and systems in which theypattern, and speculate on broader cognitive connec-tions.Some provisional findings have already emerged.Grammatical specifications for structure are prepon-derantly relat iv ist ic  or topological, and exclude thefixed or metrically Euclidean.
The categories inwhich grammatical notions pattern include:plexity perspectival modestate of boundedness level of synthesisstate of dividedness level of exemplaritydegree of extensionality axial characteristicspattern of distribution scene-breakup "Grammatical specification of structuring appears tobe the same, in certain abstract characteristics, asthe structuring of visual perception.O.
IntroductionA sentence (or other portion of discourse) istaken to evoke in the listener a particular kind ofexperiential complex--here to be termed a "cognitiverepresentation" or "CR".I There appears to be a sig-nificant way in which different portions of the lan-guage input specify, or code for, different portionsof the CR.
The major finding is that--for a f i r s tapproximation--the lexical fraction of a sentencecodes mainly for the content, or substance, of a CR,while the grammatical fraction of a sentence codesmainly for the structure of a CR.
Determining thestructure within a realm of phenomena has been a cen-tral concern for analytic science, including linguis-tics and psychology.
With grammar seen in the abovel ight,  i t  can be used in determining the structure,of the language-related portion of human cognition,with possible connections to further portions.
Inparticular, Iookingsystematically at the actual not-ions specified by grammatical elements can give us ahandle for ascertaining the xery nakeup of (linguis-t ic-)  cognitive structuring.
~ The beginnings of suchan endeavor are the aims of this paper.Several ideas here require some immediate lab-oration.
The distinction between lexical and gram-matical is made entirely formally--i.e., without anyreference to meaning--on the basis of the distinc-tion between open-class and closed-class.
3 All open-class elements--i.e., the stems of nouns, verbs, andadjectives4--are considered lexical.
Everything elseis considered grammatical.
Included here are allclosed-class morphemes and words--inflections, par-t ic les, adpositons, conjunctions, demonstratives,etc.--as well as syntactic constructions, grammaticalrelations~ categorial identities, word order, andintonation.
Terminologically here, "grammaticalelement" will be used to refer to any of these.The nature of content and of structure, and thedistinction between them, are not understood wellenough to be addressed analytically in this paper andmust be le f t  to our intuit ive sense of the matter.5Taking them for granted, however, we can now morefinely characterize the linguistic-cognitive cross-relationships noted earlier.
While most of a CR'scontent is specified by the lexical fraction of asentence, the lexical items do usually specify somestructural notions along with the contentful ones.The grammatical elements of a sentence more unalloy-edly specify only structural notions;~and specify themmore determinately in the case of conflict with alexical item, establishing perhaps the majority of aCR's structure.
6In other work in the present direction--notablyFillmore's (e.g., 1975, 1976)--concern has also beenwith ascertaining structre, but the sentence elementsused as starting-points have generally been lexicalitems with prominently inmixed structural specifica-tions (like buy and sell)~ The present work, in parta complement to the other, takes advantage of gram-mar's greater directness and completeness:in speci-fying structure~This paper is divided into three sections.
Inthe f i r s t ,  a sampling of grammatical elements is ex-amined for the notions that they specify, both as anintroduction to out method and for the aim of notic-ing properties common to such notions as well as pro-perties excluded from them.
In the second, we pre-sent a number of the categories in which grammaticallyspecified notions have been observed to pattern.
Inthe th ird,  we speculate on broader cognitve connec-tions.141.
The Nature of Grammatically Specified NotionsIn this section we examine a small sampling ofgrammatical elements for the part icular  componentnotions that they specify.
The sample wi l l  give aheurist ic indication of the kinds of notions that getgrammatically specified as well as of kinds of no-tions that possibly never do.
The excluded kindswi l l  be seen as readi ly specif iable by lexical  ele-ments.
A further comparison between the character-i s t ics  of grammatically specified notions and oflex ica l ly  specified ones is then made.
To indicatethe major f inding at the outset, i t  seems that gram-matical specif ications for structure are preponder-antly re la t iv i s t i c  or topological,  and exclude thefixed or metr ical ly Euclidean.For a f i r s t  simple case, many languages have in-f lect ions for the noun (English has -B and -s)that specify the uniplex or the multipTex instant ia-t ion of the object specified by the noun.
By con-t rast ,  no languages appear to have inf lect ions thatspecify the redness or blueness, e tc .
- - i .e .
,  the par-t i cu lar  color- -of  the object specified by a noun.In the preceding, the underlined are instances of"notions".
The f i r s t  set are grammatically specif ieda~d can be readily seen to play a structuring rolein a CR.
7 The second set are perhaps never foundspecified by grammatical elements, though they areeverywhere found specified by lexical  elements \[suchas (red and blue).For another case we consider a deict ic  l ike theEnglish this or that as in This chair is broken.
Agrammatical element of this type specifie~ the loca-tion of an indicated object as being, in ef fect ,  onthe speaker-side or the non-speaker-side of a concep-tual part i t ion drawn through space (or time or otherqual i tat ive dimension).
This integral specif icat ioncan be analyzed as containing the following componentnotions (enclosed by quotes):( I)a-b.
a 'par t i t ion '  that divides a space into' reg ions ' / ' s ides 'c-e. the 'locatedness' (a part icular  re lat ion)  of a'point '  (or object ideal izable as a point)'within'  a regionf-g. (a side that is the) 'same' as or 'd i f fe rent 'fromh-i .
a 'current ly indicated' object and a 'current lycommunicating' ent i tyNotions that might at f i r s t  be ascribed to such deicqt ics ,  such as of distance or perhaps size, prove notto be, on the evidence of sentence-pairs l ike (2):(2) a.
This speck is smaller than that speck.b.
This planet is smaller than that planet.The CRs evoked by (2a) and (b) d i f fe r  greatly,  in-volving t iny objects mill imeters apart or huge objectsparsecs apart.
Yet the sentences d i f fe r  only lex ic-a l ly ,  not grammatically.
Hence, the CRs' notions asto the magnitude of size or distance cannot be tracedto the deict ics (or to other grammatical elements) inthe sentences.
Thus, the notional specif ications ofa this or a that appear, in part, to be genuinelytopological: the establishment of a part i t ion remainsa constant, but i ts  position can vary unlimitedly (or,using topology's character izabi l i ty  as "rubber-sheetgeometry", the par t i t ion 's  distance away can bestretched indef in i te ly )  without any constraints im-posed by the deict ics '  specif ications per se.
Thisf inding about the deict ics alerts us to noticingwhether any grammatical elements make specif icationsabout magnitude.
A spot check through English andvarious other languages suggests that--whi le there areapparentl~ grammatical specif ications for re lat ivemagnitudeS--there are possibly never any for absoluteor quantif ied magnitude, whether of size, distance,or other parameters.For a third case, we consider the type of adposi-t ion that specif ies,  for a moving object, certaincharacterist ics of path and of point- or frame-of-reference.
An example of this type is English throughas used, e.g.
,  in:(3) a. I walked through the water.b.
I walked through the timeber ( i .e .
,  woods).In this usage, through specif ies,  broadly, 'motionalong a l ine that is within a medium'.
The componentnotions contained here include:(4)a-e.f .g.h- i .
'mot ion ' - - i .e .
,  'one-to-one correspondences'between 'adjacent' points of 'space' andadjacent points of 'time'motion that describes a ' l i ne 'the locatedness of a l ine within a 'medium'a medium, i .e .
,  a region of three-dimensionalspace set apart by the locatedness within i tof 'material '  that is in a 'pattern of dis-tr ibut ion' ,  of a certain range of character( s t i l l  to be determined)Again, with (3a) and (b) d i f fer ing  only lex ica l ly ,  anynotional differences in the i r  CRs cannot be attr ibutedto through.
Thus, not within the specif icationalpurvue of that element are: the 'kind nf substance'comprising the medium and the 'sensorimotor character-i s t i cs '  attendant on executing the motion--as, here,those attendant on wading vs. weaving amidst obstacles.With other sentence pairs l ike(5) a/b.
I crawled/ran through the timber.
(6) a/b, I zig-zagged/arced throught the timber.i t  can be further determined that 'rate of motion' and'shape/contour of l inear path' are also not specifiedby the grammatical element.As one step in a program to ascertain any proper-t ies common to grammatically specified notions, thenotions just  found are gathered together in Table I.For heur ist ic  purposes, the notions are very provis-ional ly divided into three groups on the basis ofthe i r  re lat ion to topology.
In group (a) are thenotions that properly belong, or are readi ly definable,in the actual mathematical system of topology.
Ingroup (b), the notions might not be part of topologyproper but in tu i t i ve ly  seem l ike those that are--andmight be includable in a related mathematical systemthat could be constructed.
In group (c) are the no-tions that fa l l  outside of any usual conception of amathematical system.
The number of notions in thef i r s t  two groups combined is 13, while the th i rd  has6--an indication of a preponderant propensity forgrammatical elements to specify quasi-topological no-tions.
The rat io  in this direct ion is in fact im-proved i f  we consider that even several notions ingroup (c)--the bottom three--resemble topological onesin the sense of involving re la t iv i s t i c  relationshipsbetween quantit ies rather than absolutely f ixedquantit ies.15(7) Table 1: Some notions found to be specifiedby grammatical elementsa.
topological b. topology-likepartitionregion/sidepointlinelocatednesswithinuniplexitymultiplexityone-to-onecorrespondencessamedif ferentpattern of distr ibut ion"adjacency" of points(monotonicity)c. non-topologicalmatterspacetimemotionmediumcurrently indicated/communicating entityFor a complementary program of ascertaining anyproperties excluded from grammatical specification,the notions found above not'~to be specified by theelements investigated are listed in Table 2.
Ratherthan topological, topology-like, or relat ivist ic,these notions involve Euclidean-geometric oncepts(e.g., set distance,:size, contour), quantified mea-sure, and various particularities of a quantity--insum, characteristics that are absolute or fixed.
(8) Table 2: Some notions seemingly never specifiedgrammaticallyabsolute/quantified magnitude kind of substance(of distance, size, etc.)
speedshape/contour of line colorsensorimotor characteristicsThe provisional conclusion to be drawn from thesefindings is that, i f  grammatical specifications largelycorrespond to (linguistic-) cognitive structuring, thenthe nature of that structuring is largely relativ-ist ic or topological rather than fixed or absolute.In a search for contrasts between grammatical andlexical specification, a difference that presentsi tsel f  at this point is that the relativism vs. abso-lutism restrictions do not apply to the latter.
Lex-ical items can specify topological and relat ivist icconcepts, as the very words listed in Table 1 attestto.
And they can also specify Euclidean or absoluteconcepts.
Thus, for the notion of color in Table 2,there are such lexical items as red, b\]ue; for con ~tour, there are circle, straight; for quantifiedmagnitude, there are inch, mile; for sensorimotorcharacteristics, there are wade, nimble, effort.For a further contrast between the grammaticaland the lexical type of specification, we considerthe full complement of both element-types in a singlewhole sentence, viz., that selected in (9):(9) A rustler lassoed the steers.We f i rs t  l i s t  the grammatical elements p~esent in thesentence~and the notions that they specify:(10)a.
-edzb.
the:c. a:'occurring at a time before that ofthe present communication''has ready identif iabi l i ty for theaddressee''not before in discussion or otherwisereadily indentifiable for addressee'd.
-s: 'multiplex object'e.
a...-~: 'uniplex object'f.
the grammatical category of "verb" for lasso:'eventhood'g/h.
the gram.
category of "noun" for rustler/steer:'objecthood' (one possible spec.
of "N")i / j .
the grammatical relations of "subject"/"object"for rustler/steer:~t~7~-pat ient  ' (among possible specs.)k.
active voice:'point-of-view at the agent'I.
intonation, word-order, state of auKiliaries:'the speaker-"knows" the situationto be true and asserts i t 'The lexical items in the sentence can have their spec-ifications characterized as follows:( I I )  A complex of concepts involving:a. rustler:b. steer:c. lasso:property ownership, i l legal i ty,  modeof activityappearance, physical makeup, relationto animal k~ngdominstitution of breeding for intendedpurposes, esp.
human consumptioncertain materials (a body and a lasso)in certain configurationsmovement sequences of materials' partsconcomitant mental intentions, direc-tings, monitorings, etc.In surveying the l is ts ,  we can see these differ-ences emerge: The grammatical elements are more num-erous and their specifications seem simpler and morestructural.
Together, their specifications seem todetermaine the main organizational and communicationaldelineations of the CR evoked by the sentence.
Thelexical elements are fewer in number, but their specGifications are more complex and seem to comprise mostof the content of the CR.
The lexical specificationsare complex in three ways: compared to a grammaticalspecification, each has a) more total information,b) greater intricacy of information, and c) more dif ~ferent types of information together.These grammatical-lexical differences can be setinto further relief by in turn varying one element-typewhile keeping the other constant.
Thus, varyingonly the grammatical elements of (9), as is done in(12), seems to alter the organizational and communic-ational characteristics of the scene but to leave itsbasic contents intact:(12) Will the rustlers lasso a steer?Varying only (9)'s lexical elements, as in (13), shiftsus to a new scene altogether, and yet the essentialbreakup of the scene and of the communicative settingseem to remain the same:(13) A machine cancelled the stamps.2.
Categories of Grammatically Specified NotionsThe preceding sampling of grammatical elementshas yielded a set of notions helpfultoward discoveringcommon properties.
But the set has been small andhaphazardly arrived at.
With a broader and more sys-tematic investigation, patterns of organization becomeevident.
Grammatically specified notions can be seento pattern in categories, and the categories, ' in turn,16in integrated systems.
In this section we look atsome of these categories and systems.The grammatical elements here wi l l  not be treatedin isolat ion,  but in association with lexical  items.That is,  the grammatically specified structural no ~tions wi l l  be considered in interaction with thatpor t ion  of lexical specif icat ion that is also struc-tural .
This interaction entai ls cognitive processing,and d i f ferent  cases of such processing wi l l  be con-sidered along the way.The note on methodology should be made that ourdirect ion of analysis has been from grammatical spec-i f i ca t ion  to category, not the reverse.
That is,  thecategories considered below were discovered to berelevant to the specif ications of various grammaticalelements.
They were not part of some a pr ior i  concep-tual schema which then sought corroborative examples~2.1 Dimension / Kind of QuantityThe category of "dimension" has two member no-t ions, 'space' and It ime'.
The kind of "quantity"that exists in space i s - - in  respectively continuousor discrete form--'matter' or 'objects ' .
The kindof quantity existing in time is 'action' or 'events'("action" is meant to refer to any obtaining circum-stance= not just  (wi l led) motion).
In tabular form,these notions relate thus:(13) space: matter /objectstime: action/eventsA number of grammatical and lexical  referents arespecif ic with regard to one or the other pole of thiscategory.
But since the category cross-cuts the onestreated next, we wi l l  not exemplify i t  here but wi l lendeavor in the following to present both space andtime examples side by side.2.2 PlexityThe category here to be termed "plexi ty"  is aquantity's state of ar t icu lat ion into equivalent ele-ments.
Where the quantity consists of only one suchelement, i t  is "uniplex",  and where i t  consists ofmore than one, i t  is "mult iplex".
When the quantityinvolved is matter, p lex i ty  is,  of course, equivalentto the tradi t ional  category of "number" with i ts  com-ponent notions "singular" and "p lura l" .
But the pre-sent notions are intended to capture the generaliza-t ion from matter over to action, which the tradi t ionalones do not.9Specifications as to p lexi ty are made by bothlexical items and grammatical elements, and the in-terplay between the two when they are both in associa-tion must be noted.
Example English lexical itemsthat basically specify a uniplex referent are-- formatter and action, respect ively--bird and (to) sigh.They can occur with grammatical elements that them-selves specify a unip lexi ty ,  l ike those underlinedin (14a) (many languages have here a more regular,overt system of markers than!:English).
But they canalso occur with grammatical elements that specify amult ip lex i ty ,  as in (14b).
In this association, suchelements can be thought to tr igger a part icular  cog-n i t ive operation-- in this case, one of "multiplexing".By this operation, an original solo referent is,  inef fect ,  copied onto various points of space or time.
(14) matter actiona.
uniplex A bird flew in.
He s i t  (once).b.
m~Itiplex Birds flew in.
He kept sighing.The reverse of the preceding circumstances isalso to be found in language.
First, there are lex-ical items that intrinsically specify a multiplexity.English examples are furniture or timber ( i .e.,  'stan-ding trees') for matter and breathe for action, asused in (15a).
And, too, there are grammatical ele-ments able to appear in association here, as in (15b),that signal an operation the reverse of multiplexing--one that can be called '*unit-excerpting".
By thisoperation, a single one of the specified equivalentunits is taken and set in the foreground of attention.(15)a.
multiplexb.matteractionFurniture overturned in the 'quake.She breathed without pain.piece o_f_ffurniture overturned...She took a breath/breathed in .
.
.The grammatical elements that above signaled multi-plexing-- -s and keep -~- -have  a d i rect ly  manifestedsurface form.
The ones signaling unit-excerpting arein part abstract in form, as represented in (16):(16) matter action(a) Nunit of + Vdummy-~-)--~\[ \[ + X\]Neg: a piece of furniture take a breathor: + Prtcle (eg: in)2.3 State of BoundednessAnother category of attr ibutes specified bothgrammatically and lex ica l ly  for a quantity is i ts"state of boundedness" When a quantity is specif iedas "unbounded", i t  is conceived as continuing on in-de f in i te ly  with no necessary character ist ic of f in i te -ness in t r ins ic  to i t .
When a quantity is specifiedas "bounded", i t  is conceived as demarcated of f  as anindividuated unit ent i ty .Among English examples of lexical items, waterand (to) sleep seem basically to specify unboundedquantit ies,  whereas sea and (to) dress seem basicallyto specify bounded ones.
These specif ications aredemonstrated by the words' respectively unacceptableand acceptable occurrence with the grammatical elementin  NPextent_of_t\]me , which specifies boundedness:(17) matteractiona.
unbounded *We flew over water in I hr.
*She slept in 8 hrs.b.
bounded We flew over a sea in I hr.She dressed in 8 mins.Now, there are grammatical elements suitable forco-occurrence with unbounded-type lexical items whichtherewith, in ef fect ,  t r igger a cognitive operationof "bound@ng".
By this operation, a portion of thespecified unbounded quantity is demarcated and placedin the foreground of attention.
Examples of suchgrammatical elements in English are:(18) matter (a) Nbounded_quantity ofaction for Nextent_of_time +Part icular cases of them in use are:(19) We flew over a bodz of water in 1 hr.She slept for 8 hrs.17The question arises whether the reverse of thepreceding circumstances is ever to be found in lan-guage.
Entailed would be the existence of grammat-ical elements that, when used with lexical itemsspecifying a bounded quantity, Would trigger an oper-ation of "debounding".
By this, e.g., the referentof sea would be shifted to 'pelagic water', and thato f -~tear ,  to take another lexical bounded case,would shift to 'lachrymal f luid'.
It  seems likelythat such grammatical elements exist; the closestcandidate known to the author is the French suffix-age, but this has a range of meanings and many oc-currence restrictions--and oes not, e.g., happen tocombine with the French words for "sea" or "tear".102.4 State of DividednessThe category of "state of dividedness" refers toa quantity 's internal consistency.
A quantity is'~discrete" (or "part icu late")  i f  there are breaks inits oo~inuity.
Otherwise, the quantity is "contin-uous".
~ Both lexical and grammatical elements aresensitive, in their specifications, to the distinc-tions of this category.
But there appear to be nogrammatical elements that solely specify discretenessor continuity for a quantity, and also none that sig-nal an operation for reversing a^quantity's lex~callyspecified state of dividedness, zz In consequence,there is difficulty in demonstrating this categoryexplicitly by itself, and so we defer its treatmentuntil the next section, where i t  can be seen in in-teraction with the other categories.2.1 - 2.4 The Disposition of a QuantityThe preceding four categories of attr ibutes al lpertain to a quantity simultaneously and, taken to-gether, can be considered to constitute a system ofattr ibutes that may be termed a quantity 's "disposi-t ion".
The part icular  intersections of the severalattr ibutes wi l l  be the main object of attention here.These, f i r s t ly ,  can be schematized as in (19):(19)  discrete continuouse ~ 6 ~,!/, ,,%/' ' 'illi/iIfI  , " "  " ,  , .
r} " ' I .
a, 7 : I ~:::unboundedmultiplex <Q~.
.
.
O <C-~ b?undedA B "~funiplex .
'- o ~ a+ the d is t inct ion between matter and action,which cross-cuts al l  of the above ~FEach intersection of attr ibutes indicated here hasbeen found specified by various lexical  items.
Anexample or two (most seen ear l ier )  is given for eachintersection in (20):14(20) A: timber/furniture B: water(to) breathe (to) sleepA: (a) family B: (a) sea/tear(to) button up (to) zip upa: (a) bird(to) sighNow i f  the particular contentful referent forwhich one chooses a lexical item happens to be wedded,by that lexical item, to an unwanted set of structuralspecifications, there generally are grammatical meansavailable for altering this to a desired set.
Suchmeans range in directness from specifying the singleapt alteration to involving a circuitous sequence ofoperations.
A number of starting- and ending-pointsfor alterations, and the means for accomplishing them,are indicated in (21):(21)~--~A a stand of timberbreathe for  1 hr.A-~,a a piece of furnit.take a breath/breathe inB~B a body df watersleep for 1 hr.A --~a a member of a fmlygo through a stepof buttoning upA~A members of a fmly  B-~B(A - *a  -~A)button on and ona~A treeskeep sighingtears (*tearage)(B -~a -~A -~-B)zip on and ona -~A a stand of trees(a -~A -~ A)sigh for a while2.5 Degree of ExtensionalityImpl ic i t  in the vert ical  dimension of the sche-matic arrangement in (19) is a further category I~  thatcan be called "degree of extensional i ty".
This cate-gory has three member notions, terms for which aregiven in (22) together with schematics of the notionsfor the l inear dimension:(22) point bounded extent unbounded extentLexical items with e i ther a matter or an action ref -erent can make concurrent structural  specif icationsfor  the i r  referent as to i ts  basic degree of exten-s ional i ty .
Three examples--specifying objects ofd i f fe rent  l inear  extensional i t ies- -are the words(23) speck ladder r iverNow a lexical  referent that is perhaps most bas-i ca l l y  to be conceived as of one part icu lar  degree ofextensional i ty can, by various grammatical specif ica-tions that induce a sh i f t ,  be idealized as being ofsome other degree of extensional ity.
For a f i r s t  ex-ample, consider the event referent of climb a ladder,which seems basical ly of bounded l inear ~en- t -~oftime), as is in fact manifested in (24) in conjunctionwith the grammatical element " in+ NPextent_of_time":(24) She climbed up the f i re - ladder  in 5 mins.With a d i f fe rent  accompanying grammatical element,l ike the "at + NPpoint-of-time" in (25),(as well asd i f fe rent  ~ntextua l  speci f icat ions) ,  the event ref -erent of the preceding can be shifted toward ideal iz -18ation as a point of t ime- - i .e .
,  as being point-dura-t ional :(25) Moving along on the training course,she climbed the f i re- ladder at exactly midday.This sh i f t  in the cognized extensional ity of the ewent can be thought to involve a cognitive process of"reduction" or of "taking the long-range view".
Thesh i f t  can also go in the other direction.
The eventreferent can be idealized as an unbounded extent fromthe effect of grammatical elements l ike "keep - ing","-er and -er" ,  and "as + S", as in (26):(26) She kept climbing higher and higher up thef i re- ladder  as we watched.Here there would seem to have taken place a cognitiveprocess of "magnification" or of "taking the close-upview".
In such a process, a perspective is estab~lished whereby the existence of any exter ior  boundsfa l l s  outside of view and attent ion--or ,  at most, areasymptotically approachable.The preceding event referent was continuous,but a discrete case can exhibit  the same shi f ts  ofextensional ity.
One such case, perhaps to be con-sidered as most basical ly of bounded extent, is shownwith that degree of extensional ity in (27a).
But thereferent can also be idealized as a point, as in (27b)( i t  is clear that the cows here did not a l l  die at thesame moment, and yet the spread of their  death timesis conceptually collapsed into such a single moment).Or, the referent can be idealized as an unbounded ex-tent, as in (27c):(27) a.
The cows a l l  died in a month.b.
When the cows al l  died, we sold our farm.c.
The cows kept dying (and dying)unt i l  the serum f ina l ly  arrived.The al ternat ive ideal izations of extensional ityjust seen as specif iable for an event referent aregenerally also avai lable for an object referent.Thus, e.g.,  the referent of (a) box can be specifiedfor ideal izat ion as a point or as a bounded extent(of area or volume).
Some grammatical elements makingsuch specifications~are i l lus t ra ted  in (28).
Also setforth here are the homologies between these and theevent-specific elements:(28)point The box is 20 f t .
away from the wal l .I read the book 20 yrs.
ago.bounded extent The box is 2 f t .
across.I read the book in 2 hrs.
(point Within) The ball is in the box.bounded extent She arrived as I was reading the book.2.6 Pattern of Distr ibut ionThe pattern of d is t r ibut ion of matter throughi:space or of action through time is a further categoryof notions that can be both grammatically and lex ic -a l l y  specified.16 For action through time--the onlydimension we wi l l  be looking at now--this categorytogether with the preceding one largely constitutethe t radi t ional  category of "aspect".Several of the main patterns of d is t r ibut ion foraction through time are shown schematically in (29)(the dots here, representing situatedness in comple-mentary states, should rea l ly  be adjacent, but theyare sketched apart with a connecting l ine to show thecrossing of state- interfaces).
Shown, too, are ex-ample verbs whose basic d is t r ibut ional  specif icationsare as in the corresponding schematic:(29)one-way one-way fu l l -  steady- gradientnon- resettable cycle stateresettable ~.
.
.
.
.
.
, ,die fa l l  f lash sleep widencarryOne can determine that these lexical  items have thespecif ications indicated by noting the grammaticalelements with which they can and cannot occur (or, toput the la t te r  case in our terms: ...grammatical ele-ments toward whose specif ications they w i l l  notsh i f t ) .
A fu l l  demonstration is not in order here,but a few examples show the pr inciple:  The resettabletype of a one-way event is distinguished from thenon-resettable type by i t s  compatibi l i ty in sentencesl i ke :  He fe l l  3 times, which the other lacks: *Hedied 3 times.
This same one-way form is distinguishedfrom a fu l l - cyc le  form by i t s  ab i l i ty  to appear insentences l ike :  He fe l l  and then got up, which thela t te r  cannot do: *The beacon flashed and then wentof f .We can now consider the cirsumstance where a verbof one type appears with grammatical elements of an-other type and shi f ts  in certain of i ts  specif icationsof d is t r ibut ion.
For an example we again take die,whose basic specif ications can be adjudged as point-durational one-way non-resettable--schematizable, nowmore precisely, as: ~ .
This verb is used with i t sbasic specif ications in a sentence l ike  (30a).
(30) a.
He died as she looked on.b.
He was (slowly) dying as she looked on.But in a sentence l ike  (30b), the grammatical ele-ment "be+ -in__ng_" induces a sh i f t .
In ef fect ,  theinf in i tes imal  interval between the two states involvedfor d ie - -v i z .
,  'al iveness' and 'deadness'--is spreadout, with the creation thereby of an extent-durationalgradient.
This is the sh i f t  in the d ist r ibut ion pat-tern's structural type.
But concomitantly, a sh i f tin the basic contentful referent is engendered.
In-stead of 'dying' ,  the new gradient refers to 'mori-bundity'.
The d ist inct ion becomes clear in notingthat one can have been dying without having died,and, cor re la t ive ly ,  one can have died without havingbeen dying.172.7 Perspectival ModeA specified action (which, in our terms, can asequally be s tat ic  as involve change) has been seen tohave i ts  own, perhaps most basic, pattern of d i s t r i -bution through time.
But, as i t  turns'out, there canbe independent specif ication for a mode of attendingto the action that has a d is t inc t  temporal patternof d is t r ibut ion ,  one that is e ither equal or unequalto the action's.
In what we shall now consider,there are two types of such "attentional" or "per-spectival mode" v i z .
:19(31) The assuming of:a. a steady-state long-range perspective pointwith synoptic scope of attentionb, a moving close-up perspective pointwith local spope of attentionTo i l lustrate, we f i r s t  consider an example witha basically steady-state referent, viz.,  objects inlocation.
The (31a) type of perspectival mode--theone more congruent with such a referent--holds in(32a), multiply specified/determined there by theset of grammatical elements shown underlined.
Butby substituting grammatical elements coding for the(31b) perspectival mode, as is done in (32b), thescene evoked can be shifted to one where one's mentalgaze or one's own projected location jumps in turnfrom object to object.
In effect, a steady-statemultiplexity of objects has been converted to asequential multiplexity of events, viz.,  of concep-tualized encounters with the objects.
(32) a.
There are houses here and there in the valley.b.
There is a house every now and then throughthe val ley.In a comparable case, the moving-perspective form,shown in (33b), is the only mode that can be spec-i~fied using everyday language.
One must resort toscientif ic language, as in (33a), in order to estab-ish the synoptic perspective:133)a.
The telephone poles' heights form a gradient thatcorrelates with their locations on the road.b.
The telephone poles get tal ler  the further downthe road they are.The reverse of the preceding circumstances isalso encountered.
An example involving a sequentialmultiplexity of events is shown in (34a) with the morecongruent moving-perspective mode specified.
In (34b),the same referent instead becomes the object of syn-optic viewing.
In metaphorical terms, the effect hereis as i f  the vertical time line is t i l ted up into pre-sent-moment horizontality for integrated or summationalassessment.(34)a.
I took an aspir in time after  time during/in the course of the last  hour.b.
I have taken a number of  aspirins inthe last  hour.182.8 Level of SynthesisThe category to be considered now pertains tobounded quantities, l ike those schematized in theA/B row in (19).
One form of locution already seento specify such quantities is the particular type of"NP of NP" construction il lustrated in (35a).
Herethe second NP specifies the identity of the quantityinvolved, i tsel f  conceptualized as without intrinsicbounds, while the f i r s t  NP specifies the bounding(or "portion--taking") per se of the quantity:(35) a. a set of treesb.
a cluster of treesa body of watera puddle/drop of waterNow, beyond the fact alone of bounding off a portion,the f i r s t  NP can additionally specify the particularconfiguration or form that the portion takes, as in(35b).
19 Especially with regard to internally dis=crete quantities--as with a cluster of trees--the twoNPs can here be seen as coding for two different"levels of synthesis": The later NP specifies anunsynthesized multiplexity, while the earlier NP spe-cifies a particular geatalt synthesized therefrom.There is a further cognitive distinction involvedhere that language usually makes: either level ofsynthesis can be placed in the foreground of attentionwhile the other level is placed in the background.One grammatical form that specifies this involvesplacing the foregrounded NP-type f i r s t ,  as shown in"(36a)~ With the use of this grammatical device,moreover, predications can be made that pertainsolely to one level of synthesis or the other, asseen in (36b)i(36) a. the cluster of trees / the trees in the clusterb.
That cluster of trees is small.The trees in that cluster are small.There are certain surface forms, furthermore, whosereferents are keyed to applying to only one or theother level of synthesis.
Thus, together (towardeach other) tends to correlate with multiple objects,while~_gn (upon i tsel f )  tends to correlate with acomposite thereof:(37) The bricks in the pyramid came crashingtogether/?in.The pyramid of bricks came crashingin (upon itself)/?together.The preceding has involved shifting attentionfrom a multiplexity to the gestalt that i t  consti-tutes.
Also encountered in language are means forspecifying the reverse: shifting attention from agestalt to the components that constitute i t .
Thisprocedure can take place when the starting lexicalitem specifies an entity taken ~o be already at themore synthetic level, as is the case with iceberg in(38a).
By grammatical devices like those seen in(38b), such an entity can be broken down from con-ception as a coherent whole and presented in termsof component parts and their interrelations:(38) a.
The iceberg broke in two.b.
The two halves of the iceberg broke apart(*in two).Again we encounter a surface form--in two--that cor-relates with only one level of synthesis and not theother.
202.9 Level of ExemplarityThe specification for a multiplexity of objectscan have a further cognitive distinction made per-taining to i t .
This distinction does notaffeCt thebasic reference to all the members of the multiplex-i ty,  but addresses how attention is directed therein.Eithe~ the ful l  complement of the multiplexity is inthe foreground of attention, with perhaps individualitems here and there singled out in the backgroundof attention~ Or a single exemplar out of the multi-plexity is placed in the foreground of attention,with the remaining items more dimly conceived in thebackground of attention.
Perhaps most languages haveseveral grammatical devices for specifying this dis-tinction as to the "level of exemplarity".
But Eng-lish stands out in the extensiveness of its forms:20there are d i f ferent  pairs of grammatical elementsthat mark the d is t inct ion for a number of d i s t inc ttypes of mult ip lexi ty.
A rather fu l l  l i s t  of thesepairs is i l lus t rated in (39):(39)a. Oysters have siphons/a siphon.
41An oyster has siphons/a sipohon.
L?b.
All oysters have siphons/a siphon.Every oyster has siphons/a siphon.c.
All the members raised thei r  hand(s).d.
Each member aised his hand(s).d.
Many members raised thei r  hand(s).Many a member raised his hand(s).e.
Some members here and there raised thei r  hand(s).A member here and there raised his hand(s).f.
Members one after  another raised their  hand(s).One member after  another raised his hand(s).g.
Hardly any members raised their  hand(s).Hardly a member raised his hand(s).h.
No members raised their  hand(s).No member (Not a member) raised his hand(s).i .
She held a gun in both hands.She held a gun in either hand.
232.10 Other Categories and ProcessesMore notional categories and cognitive processeshave been worked up than there is opportunity to pre-sent here.
Some of this other material is treatedin an ear l ier  work, Talmy (1977) (which i t se l f  lackssome of the material presented here).
But we wi l lb r ie f ly  indicate some of the concepts involved.The adjectives in a pair l ike sick/well behaved i f fe rent ly  in association with grammatical elementsspecifying vectoral degree, as shown in (40).
In thisthey paral lel  the behavior of certain spatial expres-sions l ike at the border/past the border:(40) He's s l lght ly~ "s ick /past "  the border.
'~~wel l / *a t  the border.
(~wel l /a t  the border.
5He's a lmost~ ~\ [ : s i ck / 'pas t  the border~This behavior can be accounted for by positing thatsuch adjectives are not simply "opposites", but, ra-ther, imply for some semantic notion, e.g.
,  that of'heal th ' ,  a part icular  abstract topological axis ofwhich each adjective labels a certain portion.
Theforms here seem in part icular  to imply a l ine boundedat one end; well refers to the end-point while sickrefers to the remainder of the l ine.
These are thelexical items' "axial character ist ics" ,  i .
e .
,  thepart icular (topological) relations ~ach has to a par-t i cu lar  semantic axis and to other items al~ng thesame axis.
Certain grammatical elements, l ike thoseunderlined in (40), also specify axial characteris-t ics.
Used incompatibly, they can cause a sh i f t  inan associated adject ive's specif ications.
Thus, in(41), sick seems to label an end-point, and of ad i f fe rent  axis as wel l ,  that of ' fee l ing bad':(41) (After eating the shrimp, he fe l t  worse andworse and) he was almost sick at one point/he f ina l ly  got sick in 5 hrs.Lexical expressions l ike cottage and hotel roommay be taken to have "associated character ist ics"- -here, respectively, those of 'permanent res idence 'and 'temporary lodging'.
These attr ibutes may meshor conf l i c t  with the specif ications of another ele-ment in the same sentence, e.g.
,  with the directionaladverb home, which specif ies a permanent residence.In the cese of conf l i c t ,  as in (42b), the lexical itemis operated on by a cognitive process that leaves i tsessential characterist ics intact but replaces i ts  in-cidental character ist ics:(42) a.
He drove home to his cottage in the suburbs.b.
He drove home to his hotel room.The "scene-breakup characterist ics" of a lexicalitem l ike  serve refer to i ts  basic specif ication ofa dyadic event, in part icu lar ,  a social event invol-ving the two roles of 'host' and 'guest ' ,  as is mani-fested in (43a).
But in a sentence l ike (43b), sucha lexical  item shifts  to specifying a monadic eventcomparable to a basically monodic lexical  expressionl ike  that in (43c).
This sh i f t  in (42b) takes placein accommodation of the subject-p lus-ref lex ive'ss ingle-ro le speci f icat ion.
(lhough this grammaticalelement is determinative in setting the role-numberas monadic, the verb's influence remains: blended inhere is the metaphoric suggestion of a dyad, as i fboth 'host' and 'guest' are to be found in the " I " ) :(43) a.
The host served me some dessert from the kitchen.b.
I served myself some dessert from the kitchen.c.
I went and got some dessert from the kitchen.A major aim in cognitive l inguist ics  must be toinvestigate the interactions between le~ical andgrammatical specif ications arising in a single sent-ence.
Included here are the cognitive accommodationsthat take place where there are conf l ic t ing specifc-cations.
A number of interactions have been provision-a l ly  ident i f ied ,  and four seem def in i te ly  established:operations, sh i f ts ,  blends (of two kinds: superimposedand intro jected) ,  and juxtaposit ions.
The last  threeof these are treated at length in Talmy (1977).2.11 NestingThe operations and shi f ts  seen in 2.1 - 2.6 neednot take place singly.
The output of one can serveas the input to another, up to as many as f ive hier-archical levels of l!nesting".
While there are a num-ber of interest ing examples of this for d i f ferenttypes of matter and action, we wi l l  go d i rect ly  toi l l us t ra t ing  one of the longest cases;(44)a.
The beacon flashed (as I glanced over).b.
The beacon kept flashing.c.
The beacon flashed 5 times in a row.d.
The beacon kept f lashing 5 times at a stretch.e.
The beacon flashed 5 times at a stretch for 3 hrs.In (44a), the lexical  verb flash appears with i tsbasic structural specif ication as a point-durationalfu l l - cyc le  uniplex event.
This undergoes the processof mult iplexing, to y ie ld the unbounded mult ip lex i tyin (44b).
This then undergops bounding in (44c).This bounded mult ip lexi ty is then~first  put through21the process of reduction to become idealized as apoint, and this is in turn multiplexed, yielding(44d).
This new unbounded mult ip lex i ty  is f ina l lythen bounded in (44e).
The nesting of structuralspecif ications in this last stage can be representedschematically as in (45):3.
Further Cognitive ConnectionsGrammatically specified structuring appears tobe similar,  in certain of i ts  characterist ics andfunctions, to the structuring in other cognitive do-mains, notably that of visual perception.
In part i -cular, the character ist ic  of being quasi-topologicalcan be pointed to, and three major functions can beident i f ied:  c lass i f i cat ion ,  synoptics, and continuity.The thinking here is not equally far along on al l  i;these matters, but something of i ts  directions canbe indicated.Grammatical specif ications can be seen to con-s t i tu te  a c lass i f icat ion with regard to the vast var-iety of learned, conceived, and perceived material.They gather d i f ferent  portions of the material toge-ther into subdivisions d i s t inc t  from each other.
Byth is ,  any part icular  currently cognized element isassociated with i ts  impl ic i t  "subdivision-mates".An i l l us t ra t ive  case here are the twenty-odd motion-related p~epositions in English, such as through andinto,  which together subdivide the domain of 'pathsconsidered with respect to reference-objects' Thisdomain covers a great and varied range, but any par st i cu la r  "path" fa l l s  within the purvue of one or an -other preposition, associated there with other "paths".The associations are often language-specific and some-times seem arbi t rary or idiosynchratic.
Thus, as s~enear l ie r ,  classed together by through are such dissim-i l a r  cases as a straightforward l iquid-part ing course(walking through water) and a zig<zag obstacle-avoid-ing course (walking through timber).
The questionarises why such dist inct ions should be effaced bythe grammatical system, while they are observed bythe lexical and other cognitive systems.
Why aregrammatical elements--say, such prepostions--not alarge and open class marking indef in i te ly  many dis~it inctions?
One may speculate that the cognitivefunction of such c lass i f i cat ion l ies in renderingcontentful material manipulable-- i .e.
,  amenable totransmission, storage, and processing--and that i tslack would render content an inef fect ive agglomeration.The original assumption made in this paper aboutgrammatical specif icat ion involved the synoptic func-t ion.
That is,  the grammatical elements of any par-t i cu lar  sentence together specify the structure ofthe cognitive representati6n evoked by that sentence.Their specif ications act as a scaffolding or frameworkacross which contentful material can be splayed ordraped.
I t  can be speculated that such structure isnecessary for a disparate quanti~y of contentful mat-er ia l  to cohere in any sensible way or to be simul-taneously cognized as a gestalt .In the course of discourse, a great welter ofnotions pass in rapid succession.
But there are sev-eral ways in which a cognitive continuity is main-tained through this f lux and a coherent gestalt  issummated over time.
For one, there are cognitiveprocesses whereby the successive notions generally canbe sensibly connected together or f i t  into a concep-tual matrix.
For another, rhetorical  specif ications- -a l l  the yes, buts, on the other hands, and a num-ber of subtler elements not generally recognized forth i s - -d i rec t  the i l locut ionary flow and make up the" logical"  tissue of the discourse.
Through th is ,  gram-matical elements appear to play a determinative role.Their specif ications establish a structural level withgreater temporal constancy amidst more f leet ing asp-ects of content.These forms of grammatically specified structuringseem to paral lel  forms discernable in the operation ofvisual perception.
24 F i rst ,  the perception of anypart icu lar  object is mediated by i ts  association withrelated objects in a c lass i f icatory  schema.Secondly, the welter of visual sensations cognizedat any given moment for some whole scene is renderedcoherent by the perception of structural delineationsrunning through i t .
One specialized form of this isdiscernable when one intends to move through a space,say, from one to the opposite corner of a restaurant.The sensations of tables, chairs,etc,  are, in e f fect ,perceived in s impl i f ied spatial arrangements as i f  froman aerial view, and the plot of a course one couldfol low through that is sensed.Thirdly,  in the course of motion through spaceover time, there is a great f lux of visual sensationsrushing past, but a sense of continuity is maintainedby the perception of structure running through thesuccessive scenes.
Two levels of "scene-structureconstancy" are maintained.
In the f i r s t ,  the perceiveddelineations afford greater permanence than the sensoryf lux ,  but do slowly sh i f t .
This is the level where,say, in walking past a table, i ts  perceived outl ineis maintained but shi f ts  gradually from a quadri lateralto a trapezoid and back to a quadri lateral .
A deeperlevel of greater constancy is also maintained, fromwhich the table continues to be perceived as a rect~angle no matter where one is in re lat ion to i t .
Fora f inal  paral le l  with grammatical speci f icat ion,  thetopology-l ike nature of visual perception is evidenthere.
For certain abstract characterist ics of a sceneand i ts  contents are maintained constant while other,more metrical and Euclidean characterist ics are freeto vary without relevance thereto.4.
Notes1.
The word "evoke" is used because the relat ionshipis not d i rect .
The CR is an emergent, compounded by~arious cognitive processes out of the sentence ele-ments' referent ia l  meanings, understanding of the pre-sent s i tuat ion,  general knowledge, etc.Our term "cognit ive representation" is similarin purport to Fi l lmore's (1975)"scene" but is chosenover that more spec i f i ca l ly  visual term.
The l inguis-t i ca l l y  evoked somplex can have much from other sensemodalities (notably som/kinesthetic and auditory) aswell as meta-modal aspects.2.
Comprehension, rather than production, is the d i r -ection we l im i t  ourselves to in the  in i t ia l  endeavor.This direct ion would seem to y ie ld more immediatelyre l iab le  f indings, since i ts  start ing point is withmore overt ly manifest, hence handleable, forms l ikegrammatical elements rather than with meanings andexperiential  complexes, which rely more on introspec-t ion and reports of introspection.
Nevertheless, eachdirect ion does involve both the manifest and the ex-per ient ial  sides of language.3.
This is a classical l i ngu is t i c  d is t inct ion.
Aclass in which morphemes are formally gathered is con-sidered open i f  i t  is quite large and easily augment-22able re lat ive  to other classes.
A class is consideredclosed i f  i t  is re lat ive ly  small and fixed in member-ship.4.
Also includable here are " lexical  complexes" l ikelodge a complaint or zero in on.
Excluded are adverbs,which seem in al l  languages to derive from the otherthree open classes rather than from any open classof spec i f ica l ly  adverbial stems.5.
Since the term "structure" has broad usage, wecan help focus in on the intended sense with a l te r -native terms: "principles of organization", "patternof del ineations", "schematic framework".6.
The fact of dual lexical specif ications that canlead to conf l i c t  is a mojor issue that wi l l  be treatedbelow under shi f ts .
Some grammatical elements alsocross the l ine and makecontentful specif ications alongwith structural ones.
This is a more tangential issuethat can be touched on here.
The crossing ranges fromthe incorporation of a single contentful notion to theorderly interweaving of contentful and sturcturalnotions.
Thus, upon.in We rode/sailed/rushed upon theenemy incorporates the notion of 'a t tack ' ,  seeminglyequivalent to the paraphrase ' into attack upon' Theclosed-class adverb tomorrow is equivalent to thephrase 'during the day that occurs next after  the dayduring which I am now speaking', an example of anorganized inter lacing.7.
One can note, for example, the ef fect  on one'sinternal cognitive representation in considering f i r s tthe sentence I looked at the dog and then I looked atthe dogs.
The addition of the grammatical element -shas a major ef fect  on the delineational breakup of- -tp ~ut i t  v is~al ly- - the scene before the mind's eye.8.
For example, augmentative and diminutive in f lec-t ions, insofar as they refer  to actual size, seem tospecify size re lat ive ly  greater or lesser than thenorm for an object.
And grammatical elements spec-i fy ing distance ( l ike English way and just  appearing,e.g.
,  before up there) appear to specify notions of' fa r '  and 'near' that are re la t ive  to the current ':s i tuat ion.9.
I t  is true that there are the tradi t ional  terms"semelfactive" and " i terat ive"  referr ing,  respectively,to one and more than one instant iat ion of an event.
Butthere is no real equivalent tonumber: "aspect" in-cludes too much else about the temporal structure ofaction.
And in any case, none of the t radi t ionalterms refer  generally to both the dimensions.10.
The mechanism actually resorted to by both Englishand French in many such cases, including that of tear,is the use of the plural ,  as in:( i )  TearLflowed through that channel in Hades.There seems t6 be a sequence of cognitiye oper-ations here in getting from a bounded to an unboundedquantity.
Speculatively, the bounded quantity isf i r s t  treated as a uniplex ent i ty ,  i t  is then mult i -plexed, the resultant ent i t ies  are conceived as spa-t ia l l y  juxtaposed, and their  boundaries are las t lyeffaced.11.
The present category may be prone to confusionwith the preceding one.
Contributory here is thenormal meaning range of continuous, which as easi lycovers 'boundlessness' as i t  does ' internal  seamless-ness' However, the two categories can vary indepen-dently.
Thus, in the preceding section, the lexicalexamples given for unboundedness, water and sleep, hap-pened also to be interna l ly  continuous; but the samedemonstration of unboundedness could have been madewith internal ly  discrete examples l ike  timber and breathe12.
Theredo exist  certain mechanisms for such reversal.Thus, taking an unbounded case, the continuity-spec-i fy ing word water can be shifted toward being cognizedas discrete by the locution part ic les of water, as in:( i )  Water/Particles of water f i l l ed  the vessel.However, the grammatical complex used here does notd i rect ly  specify the sh i f t  but, l ike the one in Note I0,seems to involve a several-atage route of cognitiveoperations.13.
For schematizing action along the one-dimensionaltime axis, an adaptation of the two-dimensional A, B,A, and B diagrams would be necessary--and can bereadi ly visual~zed.14.
The lexical  types for several of these intersec-t ions, i t  should be noted, do have tradit ional  terms.Thus, nominal forms of the a, A, and B types, respec-t i ve ly ,  have been called count nouns, col lect ive nouns,and mass nouns.
And verbal forms of the a and B types,respectively, have been called punctual and durativeverbs.
The matrix presented here augments, systemat-izes, and generalizes the tradi t ional  notions.15.
I t  may be considered an extension of the cate-gory of state-of-boundedness via the incorporationof the notion of uniplexity.16.
This category might be considered an extensionOr generalization of the "disposit ion of a quantity".Clearly, this category and the preceding f ive al l  belongtogether in treating the greater disposit ion 6f aquantity, but the relationships have not yet all  beenworked out.17.
Our main purpose here is to note the sh i f t  instructure type.
The sh i f t  in content, which wi l ldoubtless prove to have some regula~tv i s  not c lear lyunderstood at this point.18.
A major function of perfect forms in language in-deed appears to be the one involved here.
More par-t i cu la r ly ,  the perfect seems able to specify the temporal counterpart of matter located within a boundedextent of space, as in ( i ) .
That is,  a sentence con-taining the perfect, as in ( i i ) ,  suggests a paraphrasel ike that in ( i i i ) ,  which is homologous with ( i ) :( i )  There were 5 aspirins on the table.
( i i )  I have taken 5 aspirins in the last hour.
( i i i )  There were 5 aspir in-takings in the last hour.
(In support of this interpretat ion,  as pointed~.out ome by Peyton Todd, the perfect can be noted always toinvolve a temporal span bounded at both ends.)19.
All three not ion- - ident i ty  of a quantity, portion-taking of a quantity, configuration of the port ion--are generally specified simultaneously.
(or, "conflatedly"--see Talmy (1975)) by lexical  items that would f i tin the A/B row of (20).
For example, (a) tear spec-i f i es  not only a certain shape of Quantum, but also the23material involved: lachrymal f luid.
Such words gener-ally do not participate in an "NP of NP" construction- - l ike *a tear of milk--unless they in fact accede toa shift toward the type of word represented in drop.20.
There is a foursome of apt terms that can be ap-plied to the two levels of synthesis in the two direc-tions of shift ,  as indicated in ( i) .
Employed hereis the term "Figure" as i t  is used in my other work(Talmy 1978, 1976):( i) cluster: "composite Figure"trees: "multiple Figures"iceberg: "meta-Figure"2 halves: "componentFigures"21.
For the plural form oysters, the plural form si-phons is ambiguous as to whether there are one or moresiphons per oyster.
All the other combinations unam-biguously indicate the number of siphons per oyster.Thus, the exemplar form is always unambiguous in thisreagard--one of its advantages over the full-complementform.
This same arrangement holds through the l i s t .22.
I have long wondered what the differences betweeneach and ev__ve~Tmight be.
One apparent difference showsu-phere.
Each seems to be the exemplar counterpartof all the but not of all without the (*Each oyster.has a siphon makes a poor generic assertion).Ts not constrained in this way, though i t  does strikeme as more comfortably the counterpar t of all withoutthe.23.
One more pair can be added to this l i s t  by adjoin-ing two complementary unpaired forms from two differentlanguages.
The English form some, as in some friendsof mine, requires the plural and has no singular coun-terpart.
The Italian form ~ualque, as in qualque amicomio, requires the singular and lacks a plural.24.
It  seems l ikely that the language-related portionsof the brain could have evolved to their present func-tions only in the presence of these already existingcognitive mechanisms and have incorporated their oper-ation.5.
ReferencesFillmore, C. 1975.
An alternative to checklist theoriesof meaning.
In: Berkeley studies in syntax and sem-antics, vol 1.
University of California, Berkeley.. .
.
.
.
.
1976.
The need for a frame semantics withinlinguistics.
In: Statistical methods in l inguistics.Stockholm: Skriptor.Talmy, L. 1975.
Semantics and syntax of motion.
In:Syntax and semantics, vol.
4.
J. Kimball, ed.
Acad-emic Press.. .
.
.
.
.
1976.
Semantic ausative types.
In: Syntaxand semantics, vol.
6.
M. Shibatani, ed.
AcademicPress.. .
.
.
.
1977.
Rubber-sheet cognition in language.
In:Papers from the 13th regional meeting, Chicagol inguistic society.
University of Chicago.. .
.
.
.
.
1978.
Figure and Ground in complex sentences.In: Universals of human language.
Greenberg, Ferguson,Moravcsik, eds.
Stanford Univers i ty .24
