INDIRECT RESPONSES TO LOADED QUESTIONS*S. Jerrold KaplanDepartment of Computer and Informat ion ScienceUnivers i ty  of PensylvaniaPhi ladelphia,  Pa. 19104Casual users of Natural  Language (NL)computer systems are typica l ly  inexpert notonly with regard to the technical  detai lsof the underly ing programs, but often withregard to the structure and/or content ofthe domain of discourse.
Consequent ly ,  NLsystems must be designed to respondappropr iate ly  when they can detect amisconcept ion on the part of the user.Several  convent ions exist in cooperat iveconversat ion that al low a speaker toindirect ly encode their intentions andbel iefs about the domain into theirutterances, ("loading" the utterances),  andal low (in fact, often require) acooperat ive respondent to address thoseintentions and bel iefs beyond a l iteral,direct response.
To be effect ive,  NLcomputer systems must do the same.
Theproblem, then, is to provide pract icalcomputat ional  tools which wil l  determineboth when an indirect response is required,and wh-~ that response should be, wi thoutrequir ing that large amounts of domaindependent world knowledge be encoded inspecial  formalisms.This paper wil l  take the posit ion thatd is t inguish ing language dr iven inferencesf rom domain dr iven inferences provides af ramewor -~r  a s--~ution to this prob lem inthe Data Base (DB) query domain.
Animplemented query system (CO-OP) isdescr ibed that uses this d ist inct ion toprovide cooperat ive responses to DBqueries, using only a standard (CODASYL) DBand a lexicon as sources of worldknowledge.WHAT IS A LOADED QUESTION?A loaded quest ion is one thatindicates that the quest ioner  presumessomething to be true about the domain ofd iscourse that is actual ly false.
Quest ionIA presumes lB.
A cooperat ive speaker must* This work part ia l ly  supported by NSFgrant MCS 76-19466find IB assumable (i.e.
not bel ieve it tobe false) in order to appropr iate ly  utterIA in a cooperat ive conversat ion,  intend itl i teral ly,  and expect a correct, directresponse.IA.
What day does John go to hisweekly piano lesson?lB.
John takes weekly piano lessons.IC.
Tuesday.S imi lar ly,  2A presumes 2B.2A.
How many Bloody Marys did Bil ldown at the banquet?2B.
Hard liquor was avai lable at thebanquet.2C.
Zero.If the quest ioner  bel ieved 2B to be false,there would be no point in asking 2A - s/hewould a l ready know that the correct answerhad to be "Zero."
(2C).Both examples 1 and 2 can be expla inedby a convent ion of conversat ionalcooperation: that a quest ioner should leavethe respondent a choice of direct answers.That is, from the quest ioner 's  v iewpointupon asking a question, more than onedirect answer must be possible.It fol lows, then, that if a quest ionpresupposes something about the domain ofdiscourse, as IA does, that a quest ionercannot fe l ic i tous ly  utter the quest ion andbelieve the presuppos i t ion  to be false.This is a result of the fact that eachdirect answer to a quest ion entai ls  thequest ion's  presupposi t ions.
(Moreformally, if quest ion Q presupposespropos i t ion P, then each quest ion-d i rectanswer pair (Q, Ai) entails P*.)
Therefore,* This entai lment condit ion is a necessarybut not suff ic ient condit ion forpresuppos i t ion.
The concept ofpresuppos i t ion  normal ly  includes acondit ion that the negat ion of a202if a quest ioner bel ieves a presuppos i t ionto be false, s/he leaves no options for acorrect, direct response - v io lat ing theconvention.
Conversely,  a respondent caninfer in a cooperative conversat ion fromthe fact that a quest ion has been asked,that the quest ioner finds it'spresuppos i t ions assumable.
(In the termsof \[Keenan 71\], the logical presuppos i t ionis pragmatically presupposed.
)Surpr is ingly,  a more general  semanticre lat ionship exists that stil l  a l lows arespondent to infer a quest ioner 's  beliefs.Consider the situat ion where a proposi t ionis entai led by all but one of a quest ion'sdirect answers.
(Such a proposi t ion wil lbe cal led a presumption of the question.
)By a s imi lar argument, it fo l lows that if aquest ioner bel ieves that proposi t ion to befalse, s/he can infer the direct, correctanswer to the quest ion - it is the answerthat does not entai l  the proposit ion.
Onceagain, to ask such a quest ion leaves therespondent no choice of (potentially)correct answers, v io lat ing theconversat ional  convention.
Moreimportantly,  upon being asked such aquestion, the respondent can infer what thequest ioner presume s about the context.Quest ion 2A above presumes 2B, butdoes not presuppose it: 2B is not entai ledby the direct answer 2C.
Nonetheless,  aquest ioner must find 2B assumable tofe l ic i tously ask 2A in a cooperat iveconversat ion - to do otherwise wouldviolate the cooperative convention.Similar ly,  3B below is a presumption butnot a presuppos i t ion of 3A (it is notentai led by 3C).the fai lure of a presuppos i t ion renders aques?ion infe1-\[cTtius because it leaves n~Options for a direct response; 6he- - -~ur-6of a pres impt ion renders a - -quest ionT~fe lTc ihous because it leaves at most oneopt ion for a direct "response.
(Note th-a-6the d-~fl-6Tti~n of presumpt ion subsumes thedef in i t ion of presuppos i t ion  in thiscontext.
)CORRECTIVE INDIRECT RESPONSESIn a cooperat ive conversat ion,  if arespondent detects that a quest ionerincorrect ly  presumes something about thedomain of discourse, s/he is required tocorrect that misimpression.
A fai lure todo so wil l  impl ic i t ly conf i rm thequest ioner 's  presumption.
Consequent ly,  itis not always the case that a correct,direct answer is the most cooperat iveresponse.
When an incorrect presumption isdetected, it is more cooperat ive to correctthe presumpt ion than to give a directresponse.
Such a response can be called aCorrect ive Indirect Response.
For example,imagine quest ion 4A uttered in acooperat ive conversat ion when therespondent knows that no departments sellknives.4A.
Which departments thatknives also sell blade sharpeners?4B.
None.4C.
No deparments sell knives.sell3A.
Did Sandy pass the prel ims?3B.
Sandy took the prelims.3C.
No.If a quest ioner bel ieves in the falsehoodof a presupposi t ion of a quest ion, thequest ion is inappropriate because s/he mustbelieve that no direct answer can becorrect; similarly, if a quest ionerbel ieves in the falsehood of a presumption,the quest ion is inappropriate because thequest ioner must know the answer to thequestion - it is the direct answer thatdoes not entai l  the presumption.
In short,proposi t ion (in this case, the negat ion ofthe proposi t ion expressed by aquest ion-d i rect  answer pair) should alsoentail its presupposit ions.
Consequent ly,the truth of a presupposi t ion of a quest ionis normal ly  considered a prerequis i te foran answer to be either true or false (for amore detai led discussion see \[Keenan 73\]).These subtlet ies of the concept ofpresupposi t ion are irrelevant to thisdiscussion,  because false responses toquestions are considered a-priori  to beuncooperat ive.Although 4B is a direct, correct responsein this context, it is less cooperat ivethan 4C.
This effect is explained by thefact that 4A presumes that some departmentssell knives.
To be cooperative, therespondent should correct the quest ioner 'smis impress ion w i th  an indirect response,informing the quest ioner that nodepartments sell knives (4C).
(The direct,correct response 4B will reinforce thequest ioner 's  mistaken presumption in acooperat ive conversat ion through it'sfai lure to state otherwise.)
A fai lure toproduce correct ive indirect responses ishighly inappropr iate in a cooperat iveconversat ion,  and leads to "stonewal l ing" -the giving of very l imited and preciseresponses that fail to address the largergoals and bel iefs of the questioner.RELEVANCE TO DB QUERIESMost NL computer systems stonewall ,because their designs erroneously assumethat s imply producing the correct, directresponse to a query insures a cooperat iveresponse.
(To a great extent, thisassumption results from the view that NL203functions in this domain simply as ahigh- level  query language.)
Unfortunately,the domain of most real ist ic DB's aresuf f ic ient ly  complex that the user of a NLquery faci l i ty (most l ikely a naive user)wil l  f requent ly make incorrect presumpt ionsin his or her queries.
A NL system that isonly capable of a direct-- response ~i~rnecessar i ly  produce meaningless responsesto fai led presupposit ions,  and stonewall  onfailed presumptions.
Consider t~-efol lowing hypothet ical  exchange with atypical NL query system:Q: Which students got a grade of F inCIS500 in Spring, '77?R: Nil.
\[the empty set\]Q: Did anyone fail CIS500 in Spring,'77?R: No.Q: How many people passed CIS500 inSpring, '77?R: Zero.Q: Was CIS500 given in Spring '77?R: No.A cooperat ive NL query system shouldbe able to detect that the init ia l  query inthe dialog incorrectly presumed that CIS500was offered in Spring, '77, and respondappropr iately.
This abi l i ty is essentialto a NL system that wil l  funct ion in apract ical  environment, because the factthat NL is used in the interact ion wil limply to the users that the normalcooperat ive conventions fol lowed in a humandialog wil l  be observed by the machine.The CO-OP query system, descr ibed below,obeys a number of conversat ionalconventions.While the def in i t ion of presumpt iongiven above may be of interest from al inguist ic  standpoint,  it leaves much to bedesired as a computat ional  theory.A l though it provides a descr ipt ive model ofcertain aspects of conversat ional  behavior,it does not provide an adequate basis forcomputing the presumptions of a givenquest ion in a reasonable way.
By l imit ingthe domain of appl icat ion to the area ofdata retr ieval,  it is possible to show thatthe l inguist ic  structure of quest ionsencodes considerable informat ion about thepresumptions that the quest ioner  has made.This structure can be explo i ted to computea s igni f icant class of presumpt ions  andprovide appropr iate correct ive indirectresponses.LANGUAGE DRIVEN VS. DOMAIN DRIVEN INFERENCEA long standing observat ion in AIresearch is that knowledge about the world- both procedural  and declarat ive - isrequired in order to understand NL.
*Consequent ly ,  a great deal of s tudy  hasgone into determining just what type ofknowledge is required, and how thatknowledge is to be organized, accessed, anduti l ized.
One practical  d i f f icu l ty  withsystems adopt ing this approach is that theyrequire the encoding of large amounts ofworld knowledge to be proper ly  tested, oreven to function at all.
It is not easy todetermine if a part icular fai lure of asystem is due to an inadequacy in theformal ism or simply an insuff ic ient  base ofknowledge.
Frequently,  the col lect ion andencoding of the appropr iate knowledge is apainstaking and time consuming task,further h inder ing an ef fect ive evaluat ion.Most NL systems that fo l low this paradigmhave a common property: they decompose theinput into a suitable "meaning"representat ion,  and rely on variousdeduct ion and/or reasoning mechanisms toprovide the " intel l igence" required to drawthe necessary  inferences.
Inferences madein this way can be called domain** dr iveninferences, because they are mot ivated bythe domain itself***.Whi le domain driven inferences aresurely essent ia l  to an understanding of NL(and wil l  be a required part of anycomprehensive cognit ive model of humanintel l igence),  they alone are notsuf f ic ient  to produce a reasonableunderstanding of NL.
Cons ider  thefo l lowing story:John is pretty crazy, and sometimesdoes strange things.
Yesterday he wentto Sardi 's  for dinner.
He sat down,examined the menu, ordered a steak, andgot up and left.For a NL system to infer that somethingunusual has happened in the story, it mustd ist inguish the story from the events thestory describes.
A quest ion answeringsystem that would respond to "What did Johneat?"
with "A steak."
cannot be said tounderstand the story.
As a sequence ofevents, the passage contains nothingunusual - it simply omits detai ls that canbe f i l led in on the basis of commonknowledge about restaurants.
As a story,* For example, to understand the statement"I bought a br iefcase yesterday,  and todaythe handle broke off."
it is necessary toknow that br iefcases typical ly  havehandles.
** "Domain" here is meant to includegeneral world knowledge, knowledge aboutthe specif ic  context, and inferencial  rulesof a general  and/or speci f ic  nature aboutthat knowledge.
*** Of course, these inferences areactual ly  made on the basis of descr ipt ionsof the domain (the internal meaningrepresentat ion) and not the domain itself.What is to be evaluated in such systems isthe suf f ic iency of that descr ipt ion inrepresent ing the domain.204however, it raises expectat ions that theevents do not.
Drawing the inference "Johndidn't  eat the steak he ordered."
requiresknowledge about the language in addit ion toknowledge about the domain.
Inferencesthat require language related knowledge canbe cal led language dr iven inferences.Language driven inferences can becharacter ized as follows: they are based onthe fact that a story, dialog, utterance,etc.
is a descr ipt ion,  and that thedescr ipt ion itself ma Z exhibit  usefulpropert ies not associated with thebeing desc--~bed.
* These addit ionalpropert ies are used by speakers to encodeessential  information - a knowledge oflanguage related convent ions is required tounderstand NL.Language driven inferences haveseveral useful propert ies in acomputat ional  framework.
First, beingbased on general knowledge about thelanguage, they do not require a largeinfusion of knowledge to operate indi f fer ing domains.
As a result, they aresomewhat more amenable to encoding incomputer systems (requiring lessprogramming effort), and tend to be moretransportable to new domains.
Second, theydo not appear to be as subject to runawayinferencing, i.e.
the inferencing isdriven (and hence control led) by thephrasing of the input.
Third, they canoften achieve results approximat ing that ofdomain driven inference techniques withsubstant ia l ly  less computat ional  machineryand execut ion time.As a simple example, consider the caseof factive verbs.
The sentence "Johndoesn't  know that the Beat les broke up.
"carries the inference that the Beatlesbroke up.
Treated as a domain driveninference, this result might typical ly  beachieved as follows.
The sentence could beparsed into a representat ion indicat ingJohn's lack of knowledge of the Beatles'breakup.
Either immediately or at somesuitable later time, a procedure might beinvoked that encodes the knowledge "Forsomeone to not know something, thatsomething has to be the case."
Theinferencial  procedures can then update theknowledge base accordingly.
As a languagedriven inference, this inference can beregarded as a lexical property,  i.e.
thatfactive verbs presuppose their complements,and the complement immediately asserted,namely, that the Beat les broke up.
(Notethat this process cannot be reasonably saidto "understand" the utterance, but achievesthe same results.)
Effect ively,  certain* In the story example, assumptions aboutthe connectedness of the story and theuniformity of the level of descr ipt ion giverise to the inference that John didn't  eatwhat he ordered.
These assumpt ions areconventions in the language, and notpropert ies of the s i tuat ion beingdescribed.inference rules have been encoded d i rect lyinto the lexical and syntact ic  structure ofthe language - faci l i tat ing the drawing ofthe inference without resort ing to generalreasoning processes.Another (simpler) type of languagedriven inferences are those that relatespeci f ica l ly  to the structure of thediscourse, and not to it's meaning.Consider the interpretat ion of anaphoricreferences such as "former", "latter","vice versa", "respectively",  etc.
Thesewords exploit  the linear nature of languageto convey their meaning.
To infer theappropr iate referents, a NL system mustretain a suff ic ient amount of the structureof the text to determine the relativeposit ions of potent ia l  referents.
If thesystem "digests" a text into a non- l inearrepresentat ion (a common procedure),  it isl ikely to lose the information required forunderstanding.The CO-OP system, described below,demonstrates that a language dr iveninference approach to computat ional  systemscan to a considerable extent produceappropr iate NL behavior in pract icaldomains without the overhead of a detai ledand comprehensive world model.
By l imitingthe domain of discourse to DB queries, thelexical and syntact ic structure of thequest ions encodes suff ic ient informationabout the user's beliefs that ~ s igni f icantclass of presumptions can be computed on apurely language dr iven--~si~.CO-OP: A COOPERATIVE QUERY SYSTEMThe design and a pilot implementat ionof a NL query system (CO-OP) that providescooperat ive responses and operates with astandard (CODASYL) DB system has beencompleted.
In addit ion to producing directanswers, CO-OP is capable of producing avar iety of indirect responses, includingcorrect ive indirect responses.
The designmethodology of the system is based on twoobservat ions:I) To a large extent, the inferencingrequired to detect the need for anindirect response and to select theappropr iate one can be driven direct lyfrom the lexical and syntact icstructure of the input quest ion, and2) the information already encoded instandard ways in DB systems complementsthe language related knowledgesuf f ic ient ly  to produce appropr iateconversat ional  behavior without theneed for separate "world knowledge" or"domain specif ic knowledge" modules.Consequent ly ,  the inferencing mechanismsrequired to produce the cooperat iveresponses are domain transparent,  in the205sense that they wil l  produce appropr iatebehavior without modi f icat ion from anysuitable DB system.
These mechanisms cantherefore be transported to new DB'swithout  modif icat ion.To i l lustrate this claim, a detai leddescr ipt ion of the method by whichcorrect ive indirect responses are producedfollows.THE META QUERY LANGUAGEMost DB queries can be viewed asrequest ing the select ion of a subset (theresponse set) from a presented set ofent it ies (this analysis fol lows \[Belnap76\]).
Normal ly,  the presented set is putthrough a series of restr ict ions,  each ofwhich produces a subset, until the responseset is found.
This view is formal ized inthe procedures that manipulate anintermediate representat ion of the query,cal led the Meta Query Language (MQL).The MQ\[.
is a graph structure,  wherethe nodes represent sets (in the themathemat ica l ,  not the DB sense) "presented"by the user, and the edges representrelat ions def ined on those sets, derivedfrom the lexical and syntactic structure ofthe input query.
Conceptual ly ,  the directresponse to a query is an N-place relationreal ized by obtaining the referent of thesets in the DB, and composing themaccording to the binary relations.
Eachcomposi t ion wil l  have the effect ofselect ing a subset of the current sets.The subsets will contain the elements thatsurvive (participate) in the relation.
(Actually, the responses are real ized in amuch more eff ic ient fashion - this iss imply a convenient  view.
)As an example, consider the query"Which students got Fs in L inguist icscourses?"
as diagrammed it: FIGURE i.GOTMeta Query Language representat ion of"Which students got FS in L inguist icscourses ?
"FIGURE 1This query would be parsed as present ing 4sets: "students",  "Fs", "L inguist ics",  and"courses".
(The sets "L inguist ics"  and"Fs" may appear counter intu i t ive,  butshould be viewed as s ingleton ent i t iesassumed by the user to exist somewhere inthe DB.)
The direct answer to the querywould be a 4 place relation consist ing of acolumn of students, grades (all Fs),departments (all L inguist ics) ,  and courses.For convenience,  the columns containings ingleton sets (grades and departments)would be removed, and the remaining l ist ofstudents and associated courses presentedto the user.Execut ing the query consists ofpassing the MQL representat ion of the queryto an interpret ive component that producesa query suitable for execut ion on a CODASYLDB using information associated for thispurpose with the lexical items in the MQL.
(The specif ic knowledge required to performthis t ranslat ion is encoded purely at thelexical level: the only addit ional  domaindependent knowledge required is access tothe DB schema.
)The MQL, by encoding some of thesyntact ic re lat ionships  present in the NLquery, can hardly be said to capture themeaning of the question: it is merely  aconvenient representat ion formal iz ingcertain l inguist ic  character is t ics  of thequery.
The procedures that main ipulatethis representat ion to generate inferencesare based on observat ions of a generalnature regarding these syntact icre lat ionships.
Consequent ly ,  theseinferences are language driven inferences.COMPUTING CORRECTIVE INDIRECT RESPONSESThe crucial  observat ion required toproduce a reasonable set of correct iveindirect responses is that the MQL querypresumes the non-empt iness of - -~connected -~bgraphs .
Each c-onnectedsubgraph corresponds to a presumpt ion theuser has made about the domain ofdiscourse.
Consequent ly,  should theinitial query return a null response, thecontrol structure can check the userspresumpt ions by passing each connectedsubgraph to the interpret ive component tocheck it's non-emptiness (notice that eachsubgraph itself const i tutes a well  formedquery).
Should a presumpt ion prove false,an appropr iate indirect response can begenerated, rather than a meaningless ormis leading direct response of "None.
"For example, in the query of FIGURE i,the subgraphs and their correspondingcorrect ive indirect responses are (thenumbers represent the sets the subgraphsconsist of):i) "I don't  know of any students.
"2) "I don't  know of any Fs.
"3) "I don't  know of any courses.
"4) "I don't  know of any L inguist ics .
"1,2) "I don't  know of any studentsthat got Fs.
"2,3) "I don't know 6f any Fs in206courses.
"3,4) "I don't know of any L inguist icscourses.
"1,2,3) "I don't  know of any studentsthat got Fs in courses.
"2,3,4) "I don't know of any Fs inl inguist ics courses.
"Suppose that there are no l inguist icscourses in the DB.
Rather than present ingthe direct, correct answer of "None.
", thecontrol structure will pass each connectedsubgraph in turn to be executed against theDB.
It wil l  discover that no l inguist icscourses exist in the DB, and so wil lrespond with "I don't know of anyl inguist ics courses."
This correctiveindirect response (and all responsesgenerated through this method) wil l  entailthe direct answer, since they wil l  entailthe emptiness of the direct response set.Several  aspects of this procedure areworthy of note.
First, although theselect ion of the response is dependent onknowledge of the domain (as encoded in avery general sense in the DB system - notas separate theorems, structures, orprograms),  the computat ion of thepresumptions is total ly indepen-dent o fdomain s~ecifi~-" knowledge.
Because theseihferences are driven sole ly by the parseroutput (MQL representat ion),  the proceduresthat determine the presumptions (bycomputing subgraphs) require no knowledgeof the DB.
Consequent ly,  producingcorrect ive indirect responses from anotherDB, or even another DB system, requires nochanges to the inferencing procedures.Secondly,  the mechanism for select ing theindirect response is identical to theprocedure for execut ing a query.
Noaddit ional  computat ional  machinery need b-einvoked to select the appropr iate indl--~ec--6~ e  \[ T--~d i~--, the computat ionaloverhead involved in checking andcorrect ing the users presumpt ions is notincurred unless it has been determined thatan indirect response may be required.Should the query succeed init ial ly,  nopenalty in execut ion time will be paid f~-{the ab~-\[i ty t__oo produce t-~e-- in~rectresponses.
In addit ion, the--~ly increasein space overhead is a small controlprogram to produce the appropr iatesubgraphs (the l inguistic generat ion of theindirect response is essent ia l ly  free - itis a tr ivial  addit ion to the paraphrasecomponent already used in the parsingphase).Correct ive indirect responses,produced in this fashion, are languagedriven inferences, because they are deriveddirect ly  from the structure of the query asrepresented by the MQL.
If the query werephrased di f ferent ly,  a d i f ferent  set ofpresumptions would be computed.
(This isnot a drawback, as it might seem at first -it insures that the response wil l  be interms that the user understands.)
For thesereasons, corrective indirect responses,made possible by a careful choice ofrepresentat ions and associated algorithms,are produced in a domain transparentfashion with minimal system overhead usingknowledge already avai lable in the DB.A SHORT SAMPLE SESSIONThis section contains an exampleinteract ion with the prel iminaryimplementat ion of the CO-OP system as itnow stands.
An actual session has beenabstracted and commented here.CO-OP is currently implemented on aDEC KI-10 under TOPS-10 mainly inUCI -RUTGERS-L ISP,  and runs in 95K words,including the SEED DB system.
SEED is acommerc ia l ly  avai lable CODASYL DB system,marketed by International  Data BaseSystems, Inc. \[Gerritsen 78\].
The DB is alive one, used by the National  Center ForAtmospher ic  Research (NCAR) in Boulder Co.to keep track of their computer users,projects,  research sponsors, etc.
Thepr imary purpose of the DB is to track theuse of NCAR facil it ies, for account ing andother uses.The user in the example is ahypothet ical  Computer Science departmentchairperson who has heard that the NCAR DBcontains information about who issponsoring research in var ious areas, andis interested in securing some researchfunds.
S/he bel ieves (incorrectly, itturns out) that funds are avai lable tostudy mass storage.
S/he begins by asking:Q: Who sponsors active projects in massstorage?R: I don't  know of any projects in massstorage.The system is unaware of any projects inmass storage, and so expl ic i t ly  correctsthe users presumption that there are some.The user tries a more general question.Q: Who sponsors research in computerscience?R: I don't know of anyone that sponsorsresearch in computer science.Again, a correct ive indirect response - butthis time stat ing that no sponsors areknown, rather than that no suitableprojects are known.
In addit ion to beingable to generate corrective indirectresponses, the system can choose the mostappropr ia te  one when more than one isappl icable.
This is done by observing that207the subgraphs of an MQL query are part ia l lyordered according to a subgraph relation,and it is most appropr iate to correct the"least" fai l ing subgraphs with respect tothis ordering.Gett ing nowhere, the chairperson nowasks:list (sorted by contact), along with theprojects they sponsor.
A l though the userhas presumed that there is only one contactat Nasa Headquarters,  the system providesthe entire list, without objecting.
Thisand other forms of s loppy reference aretolerated by the system.Q: What are the areas?and receives a list of the areas ofinterest (s/he knew that the projects atNCAR are grouped according to apredetermined list of areas of interest),ident i f ied by the area number and name.S/he observes that area #6 (dataprocessing) and area #12 (numericalmethods) look interesting, and fol lows upwith:Q: Who sponsors pro jects  in area 6?The response is a list of sponsor nameswith a support ive indirect component of theprojects they sponsor in area 6, the nameof the area (because only the number wassuppl ied - the system doesn' t  current lyremember that it just provided the areaname to the user), and the project numbersof the sponsore, d projects.
The user nowdecides that Nasa Headquarters looks themost promising,  and so asks:Q: What is sponsored in numerical  methodsby Nasa Headquarters?After checking the DB, the system discoversthat Nasa Headquarters doesn't  sponsoranything in numerical  methods.Addi t ional ly ,  it is unable to detect anyfailed presumptions on the part of theuser.
It therefore provides a negativeresponse fol lowed by a suggest ive indirectresponse l ist ing the projects that NasaHeadquarters  sponsors in any area, in thehope that this will be helpful  to the user.R: I don't  know of anything in numericalmethods that Nasa Headquarters  sponsors .But you might be interested in anythingthat Nasa Headquarters  sponsors.
.
.After perusing this list, the chairpersonconcludes that although the projects don'tlook very promising,  s/he wil l  get in touchwith Nasa Headquarters.
S/he asks:Q: Who is the contact at Nasa Headquarters?CONCLUSIONThe prob lem of producing apparent lyintel l igent behavior from a NL system hast rad i t ional ly  been viewed in Art i f ic ia lInte l l igence as a problem of model l inghuman cognit ive processes, or model l ingknowledge about the real world.
It hasbeen demonstrated here that such approachesmust include a pragmatic theory of theconvent ions and propert ies of the use oflanguage, to funct ion effect ively.
Domaindr iven inferences must be complemented bylanguage dr iven inferences to appropr iate lyprocess NL.
Further, it has been arguedthat language driven inference mechanismshelp to control  the inference process, andcan provide a more general  andcomputat iona l ly  attract ive solut ions tomany problems previously  thought to requiredomain dr iven inference.A descr ipt ive theory of one type ofcooperat ive indirect response toinappropr iate quest ions has been presented,and extended to a prescr ipt ive(computational) theory by restr ict ing thedomain of appl icat ion to DB query systems.This theory has been implemented usinglanguage dr iven mechanisms in the design ofCO-OP, a cooperat ive query system.
Theresult is the generat ion of appropr iatecorrect ive indirect responses in acomputat iona l ly  eff ic ient and domaintransparent fashion.REFERENCESAustin,  J .L., How To Do Th ings  With Words,J.O.
Urmson, Ed.,--Oxf~'{d Univers i ty  Press,N.Y.
1965.Belnap, N. D., and T. B.
Steel, Theo f  Quest ions and Answers,  YaleUnlv rsT-ty Press, New Haven, Conn.,  1976.Gerr i tsen,  Rob, SEED Reference Manual,Vers ion CO0 - B04 draft, In ternat iona- -~aBase Systems, Inc., Phi ladelphia,  Pa.,19104, 1978.It turns out that there is a contact atNasa Headquarters for each projectsponsored, and so the system prints out theGrice, H. P., "Logic and Conversat ion" ,  inSyntax and Semantics: Speech Acts, Vol.
3,(P. Cole and J. L. Morgan, Ed.
),208Academic Press, N.Y., 1975.
University Press, London, 1969.Harris, L. R., "Natural Language Data BaseQuery: Using the Data Base Itself as theDefinition of World Knowledge and as anExtension of the Dictionary", TechnicalReport #TR 77-2, Mathematics Dept.,Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H., 1977.Weischedel, R. M., Computation of a UniqueClass of Inferences: Presuppos--\[tTon andEntailment, Ph.D. dissertation, Dept.
ofComputer and Information Science,University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,Pa.
1975.Joshi, A. K., S. J. Kaplan, and R. M.Lee, "Approximate Responses from a DataBase Query System: An Application ofInferencing in Natural Language", inProceedings of the 5th IJCAI, Vol.
i,1977.Kaplan, S. Jerrold, "Cooperative Responsesfrom a Natural Language Data Base QuerySystem: Preliminary Report", TechnicalReport, Dept.
of Computer and InformationScience, Moore School, University ofPennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., 1977.Kaplan, S. J., and Joshi, A. K.,"Cooperative Responses: An Application ofDiscourse Inference to Data Base QuerySystems", to appear in proceedings of theSecond Annual Conference of the CanadianSociety for Computational Studies ofIntelligence, Toronto, Ontario, July, 1978.Joshi, A. K., Kaplan, S. J., and Sag, I.A., "Cooperative Responses: Why QuerySystems Stonewall", to appear inproceedings of the 7th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,Bergen, Norway, August, 1978.Keenan, E. L., "Two kinds ofPresupposition in Natural Language", inStudies i_~n Linguistic Semantics, (C. J.Fillmore and D. T. Langendoen, Ed.
),Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, N.Y., 1971.Keenan, E. L., and Hull, R. D., "TheLogical Presuppositions of Questions andAnswers", in Prasuppositionen inPhilosophie und Lin@uistik, (Petofi an--dFrank, Ed.
), Athenaum Verlag, Frankfurt,1973.Lee, Ronald M. "Informative Failure inDatabase Queries", Working Paper #77-11-05,Dept.
of Decision Sciences, WhartonSchool, University of Pennsylvania, 1977.Lehnert, W., "Human and ComputationalQuestion Answering", in Cognitive Science,Vol.
i, #i, 1977.Searle, J. R., Speech Acts, an Essay inth.__ee Philosophy of Language, Cambridge209
