ASSENT AND COMPLIANCE IN CHILDREN'S LANGUAGE COMPREHENSIONDavid R. OlsonOntario Institute for Studies in EducationToronto, CanadaAbstractIt is conventional to treat the meaning of an utter-ance in a discourse in terms of two components, thepropositional and the pragmatic or speech act com-ponent, the first indicating the meaning of thesentence, the second indicating its intended use bythe speaker.
Some arguments and evidence are pre-sented to show that these two systems are interde-pendent.
Roughly, it appears that social considera-tions, primarily status, determine which aspects ofa proposition are lexicalized in the utterance.Thus, a child with high status relative to his inter-locutor may use a command, "Give me a block", whileif he has low status relative to his interlocutorhe may use a request, "May I have a block?"
If heis an equal, a peer, (and perhaps only then) he willuse an explicit true proposition such as, "You havetwo more than me".
Only inthis third case is thepropositional meaning explicit in the sentence perse, and only in this case is an affirmative ornegative response dependent strictly upon truth con-ditions (on assent rather than compliance).This concept of the social aspects of meaning isexamined through an analysis of what is said vs.what is meant in some child-child and teacher-childconversations.Theories of human cognition have gradually ad-justed their accounts of perception and of know-ledge to the fact that neither perception norknowledge are simple copies of the environmentalevents that occasion them.
Bruner's 0957)  "NewLook" in perception, which was devoted to showingthe role of hypotheses, expectancies and set onthe processes of perceptual recognition alongwith Bartlett's (1977) analyses of the role of"schema" in remembering helped to relativize theaccounts of the relation between stimulus andperception or between reality and knowledge.Now, however, we are asked to make our accountsof human cognition even more relative as not onlyto innate categories, and to expectancies based onPaper prepared for Theoretical Issues in NaturalLanguage Processing (TINLAP-2).
Urhana, Universityof Illinois, July 25-Z7, 1978.
I am indebted to EdSullivan and Frank Smith for our lively discussionsof these issues, and to Canada Council for support.prior experience, but rather to the social relationsin which those knowledge structures are constructed.Theories advanced under the banner of the "socio-logy of knowledge" have claimed that the structuresof knowledge and perception reflect the organizingproperties of the social system in which the exper-iences occur and are assimilated.This line of argument is usually attributed to Durk-helm.
According to his biographer Steven Lukes(1975) the cognitive processes reflect directly thesocial and political structures of a society.
"Con-ceptual thought, was," Durkheim claimed, "socialand nothing but an extension of society" (Lukes,1973, pp.
23-24) and again, "Logical life has itsfirst source in society" (Lukes, 1973, p. 441).In an admirable collection of essays and monographs,I~ry Douglas (1975) takes up and extends the Durk-heimian view.
With Durkheim, she claims that:"...ideas rest on classification.
Ultimately anyform of knowledge depend on principles of classi-fication.
But these principles arise out of socialexperience, sustain a given social pattern andthemselves are sustained by it.
If this guidelineand base is grossly disturbed, knowledge itselfis at risk" (p. 245).
Specifically, she argues thatthe discriminating principles as to what is cleanand what is polluted and what generally is "againstnature" is derived from social structure.
Natureis classified in such a way as to uphold the socialorder--thus in a social order in which men arestatus-dominant over women and children it seemsonly natural that women and children be assignedlow-status duties such as dish-washing.Taken in their boldest form, these theories arguethat knowledge is socially constructed; there areclose ties between the social order and the concep-tual order.
But how does this social order affect,come to be affected, or otherwise interact withthe conceptual order?Most of the theories which attempt to relate socialstructures to cognitive ones have postulated symbolsas the mediating link.
Symbols are culturally de-signed and they are acquired by children for usein communication and for the interpretation ofexperienee.
But where in a symbol system, such aslanguage, shall we look for evidence of theirrelation to social structures?
The best knownof these theories of this relation such as thosei15of Vygotsky (1962), Bruner (1966) or Whorf (1956) havetried to isolate the social constraints on the se-mantic, propositional side of language rather thanthe social, interpersonal or pragmatic side of lan-guage.
In so doing they followed the then-predomin-ant focus of linguistic and semiotic theory.Theories of symbols have tended to emphasize thesemantic, denotative or referential side of meaningat the expense of the social, pragmatic or infer-personal side of meaning.
In his classical treat-ment of symbol systems, Nelson Goodman (1968) focus-ed exclusively on the objective or informative orsemantic aspects of symbols, that is, the relationthat exists between the symbol and the event it re-presents, denotes, expresses or exemplifies.Chomsky (1972, p. 24) too, focuses on the logicalor semantic aspects of meaning--that aspect ofmeaning which is invariant across the various func-tions to which a sentence may be put, in his theoryof language.
Studies of language and cognitionhave similarly focused on labels and on grammaticalrelations in their attempts to find the relationsbetween language and thinking.
Hence Durkheimlooked at classification systems, Vygotsky lookedat the superordinate categories, and "scientificconcepts", Bruner and Greenfield looked in thestructure of adjectives, Cole and Scrihner lookedin the structure of logical inferences and so onfor evidence of social-cultural differences.
Andindeed some indications of social differences haveshown up in those studies although they tend toreflect simply degrees of familiarity with a certainapproach to problems primarily, "learning to con-fine interpretation to the text" (Olson and Nicker-son, 1978).There is however a second dimension of languagewhich has been brought to the fore by recent analy-sis of the functions of language under the rubric ofspeech act theory.
Sentences are now consideredand analyzed both in terms of the propositionalcontent of the sentence, traditionally the seman~tics or meanings of the language, and the pragma-tic function, what one is attempting to do bymeans of that sentence--promising, convincing,commanding, requesting, stating and the like.Searle (1969) following Austin (1962) differentiatespropositional acts of referring and predicatingfrom illocationary acts or stating, questioning,commamding, promising and so on.
The same refer-ence and predication can occur in the performanceof completely different speech acts as in Searle'sexample:i. Sam smokes habitually.2.
Does Sam smoke habitually?3.
Sam, smoke habitually~4.
Would that Sam smoked habitually.
(p. 22).Halliday (1970, 1973) too, in his analysis of thefunctions of languages differentiated three primaryfunctions of language--the ideational function, theinterpersonal function and the textual function--which jointly specify the structure of any parti-cular utterance or series of utterances.
Clarkand Clark (1977) suggest that speakers and listen-ers of the language use two general principles incomprehending utterances, the "reality principle"and the "cooperative principle".
Again note thatthe reality principle has to do with the relationbetween symbol and referent while the latter has todo with the relation between speakers.Let us try to simply this relationship by means ofa diagram.
Figure I shows the set of relations sus-tained by any symbol.LogicalSocial: speaker( symbol --9 speakermeaning$referentFigure i.Note first that a symbol simultaneously serves twosorts of relations represented in the diagram bytwo dimensions of language--one dimension, repre-sented by the horizontal axis in Figure l, is thatspecifying the social relations between speaker/writer and listener/audience; the symbol expressesa social relation between speaker and listener.And the second dimension, represented by the verti-cal axis, is that specifying a relation betweensymbol and meaning or between signifier and signi-fied.
The first we may call the social or inter-personal meaning of a symbol and the second thelogical meaning of that symbol, linguistic or other-wise.It is this horizontal dimension, the social one,which until recently has not been given its due.
Moststudies of language for example have been devotedprimarily to the syntactic/semantic meaning ofwords and sentences and the veridical relationshipsbetween sentences and the situations they represent.This is the aspect of language which most weaklyreflects the social relations.
And yet, as Imentioned above, this is the dimension of meaningthat most hypotheses of the Durkheimian sort havefocused upon.It is the horizontal relation, the relationsbetween persons that promises to illuminate therelations between social and cognitive structures.Let us consider what some of these social constra-ints on the meaning of a symbol may be.
First,even the aspect of meaning represented by thevertical axis has an important social component.To be represented in the language, symbols mustbe socially shared.
What gets into the languagedepends upon what others will agree to.
Indeed,the semantic aspect of language may be importantpartly because it constitutes a relatively undis-puted ground for the reaching of social consensus,what is coming to be called "intersubjectivit~.
"More recent work on the pragmatics of language,the horizontal dimension, and the social relationsassumed and maintained in the expression of anysentence, goes far to put the social dimension oflanguage back onto center stage.
In the simplestcase the declaratives "The door is closed" islogically related to the con=hand "Open the door"and the request "Could you open the door."
AsSearle (1975) would say, the three utterancesrepresent the same propositional content yet they116perform different speech acts: the first, an asser-tion, the second, a cormnand and the third, a quest-ion serving as a request.
While this speech actanalysis contributes importantly to the view thatthe meaning of a sentence is more than the proposi-tion it expresses, that is, it explicates the func-tion or pragmatics of language, it seems not to gofar enough.It may be argued that in the above three utterancesboth the propositional content and the pragmaticfunction of the sentences are similar--they all re-present the proposition: not (door(open)) and theyall serve the pragmatic function of A attempting toget B to open the door.
These sentences which havedifferent illocutionary forces as part of their"sentence meanings" are being used indirectly toperform the same illocutionary act (Searle, 1975,p.
71).
They vary in their indirectness, and polite-ness.However, the important point for us to notice isthat the social relations between the speakers assum-ed by the three sentences is entirely different.The command assumes that the speaker has superiorstatus to the listener, the request assumes a dif-ferential inferiority of the speaker and the declar-ative assumes, perhaps, the equality of the partici-pants.
The point I wish to emphasize is that an ut-terance is simultaneously doing two things--it isspecifying the logical relation between symbol andreferent, the vertical dimension of Figure i, andit is specifying a social relation between the inter-locutors.
Together, they contribute to the meaningof the symbol, utterance or expression.
However,Searle's analysis is above all a theory of language.It is less a theory of the social structures thatthose linguistic structures construct and/or sus-tain.
My concern here is to relate these two setsof structures.One of the most notable attempts to construct abridge between sociological theory and psycho-logical theory of language and the cognitive pro-cesses is that of Bernstein and his collaborators(1971).
Bernstein isolated two patterns of speechwhich, he claimed, mapped on to two social classes.The language of working class children he character-ized as a restricted code which limited grammaticaland lexical options, while that of the middle classchildren he characterized as an elaborated code withan expanded set of lexical and syntactic options.More fundamentally however, he argued that the rootcause of these linguistic differences could be foundin the patterns of social relations which held with-in each of the family types of the differing socialclasses.
Working class familial structures he char-acterized as "positional"--a fixed hierarchicalstructure in which authority, responsibility, account-ibility and priviledges were assigned on the basisof one's position in the family.
Middle classfamilies he described as person-oriented.
Dutiesand priviledges were assigned to various roles, buta person was not permanently assigned to a fixedrole but rather the role was contracted or negoti-ated with the other members of the social group.Duties, priviledges and responsibilities were as-signed by a discussion and contract rather thanbeing permanently assigned to particular indivi-duals.
Social theorists would recognize thesepatterns as essentially '~onarchist" versus "soc-ial contract" political structures.
In the firstcase the parent with the highest status has theright to decree what family members are to do, heis awarded respect and he is assigned high statusduties.
Low status individuals are to be obedientand to accept responsibil ity for low status duties.In the latter case, such assignments are negotiated.These social differences translate directly intothe linguistic patterns mentioned above.
The former,relying primarily upon position and status requirethe close observance of status relations and a mini-mum of negotiation.
For the middle class, the socialcontract requires a high degree of linguistic com-petence in negotiating roles, rights, agreementsand priviledges.
Hence the latter can be expectedto generate an elaborated code.
Evidence for thistheory has generally outweighed evidence against itbut several writers have attributed the observeddifferences not to linguistic incompetence but tothe social environments in which the data wascollected.
Labov (1972) for example found thatspeakers of Black English Vernacular were essenti-ally as adept with the language when they conver-sed with their peers as were white children.
Blackchildren did especially poorly only when they wereinterviewed by a high-status white teacher/experi-menter.Bernstein's theory is primarily important for itsassertion of a direct link between social struc-tures and linguistic structures.
However the dif-ferences should be expected less in the lexical andsyntactic structures then in the social meanings--in the pragmatics of language.
Working class child-ren do know the pragmatic options as Mitchell-Kernan and Kernan's (1977) interviews make abund~antly clear.
However, working class children (moregenerally children from families with a positional,heirarchical structure) may be expected to assignthemselves a low status relative to various authori-ties and assign interpretations on the basis ofthose status differentials more so than will middleclass children.
Thus, it may be predicted that ifsentences which are ambiguous representations ofspeech acts were presented to working class andmiddle class children, the former would tend tocomply, that is to treat the statement as an indirectrequest--while middle class children would tend toassent, that is to treat the statement as abilityor information questions.
To illustrate if asked,"Can you ~'elJ me what this is?
", working classchildren may comply by responding "A pencil~"while middle class children may tend to assentby responding "Yes, I canl"Generally speaking then, the linguistic options arepresumably much the same for all speakers.
Thesocial relations assumed and maintained differ--if you have low status you can expect to be givencommands--if high, to give them.
Many of ourinstitutional practices can be seen as keepingpeople in their assigned status positions andlanguage may be seen as one such means.Nice illustrations of these social-linguistic gameshave been presented by Gumperz (Note 2), Ervin-Tripp (1977) and Mitchell-Kernan and Kernan (1977).Gumperz reports a conversation between a husbandand wife in which the husband asks "Where's thepaper?"
and the wife, with some annoyance, replies117"I'ii get it."
The first statement may be interpret-ed as either a request for locative information oran indirect request that she get him the paper.
Herrecognition of that second possibility, that he, evenif only in the back of his mind, wanted her to gethim the paper, was the source of annoyance.Mitchell-Kernan and Kernan's (1977) example is evenmore apposite.
In the course of a group discussionbetween an experimenter-teacher and a group of childrenone child gave an indirect conlnand to the adult who hadher foot on a chair: "I want that chair~" with whichthe adult complied.
Some of the other children gas-ped and said "0-o-o-o Claudia, you gon' let her talkto you like that?"
(p. 205).
The social message isobvious.
You have to have status to give commandsand the child did not have this status.
The child-ren were well aware of that aspect of meaning.Mitchell-Kernan cites further examples of preciselythis social game.
Some of the children would trycommands on other children simply to see if the lis-tener would comply.
If they complied, the childissuing the command would have gained proof of hisgreater social status.
When they tabulated thefrequency of various kinds of "directives", ~iitchell-Kernan and Kernan found that addressees who were low-er in rank than the speaker received over five timesas many directives as those higher in rank (p. 203).They conclude: "Directives and reactions to themwere constantly used to define, reaffirm, challenge,manipulate, and redefine status and rank.
At timesthe directives involved actually served the ordinaryfunction of directives--that of requesting goodsor services--while at the same time, because oftheir frequency of occurrence or the particular formthey took, served to test the addressee's view ofthe statuses involved" (p. 201).
Ervin-Tripp (1977)too found a particular social distribution of vari-ous forms of directives in her studies of how child-ren learn to honor various factors such as age, dom-inance, task and familiarity in making requests(p. 186).As these authors point out, directives are usedonly as instrumental means of carrying out prag-matic speech acts suitable to particular inter-personal and social conditions but also to accom-plish certain interpersonal functions--primarilyestablishing and maintaining a social order, astatus quo.
In using these constructions, the childis simultaneously learning two interrelated pic-tures of reality--the nature of "objective real-ity", that is the propositional or knowledge sy-stem, and his place in the social order--that is,who has a right to make requests, to issue com-mands, and to make true descriptions and so on.As argued above, this is because every symbolicexpression has a value on both of these dimen-sions.
And I have suggested that these two dimen-sions are interdependent; descriptions are more aptto he assessed exclusively in terms of their truthin some social relations than in others.Less direct evidence of the uses of status differ-entials in the speech patterns comes from studiesof language in the classroom.
Feldman and Wertsch(Note l) reported that teachers in the classroomrarely used what they called "stance indicators"--verbs such as may, or should, or wish or hope,think or believe or qualifiers such as maybe in theirclassrooms but they frequently used them in theirspeech in the lunchroom.
That is, teachers in theclassroom act as spokesmen for the official publicview and keep their feelings, aspirations and hesi-tancies from display.
In their classic studies ofthe language in the classroom Bellack, Kliebard,Hyman and Smith (1966) found that a predominant formof language in the classroom was of the question-answer routines known as the "recitation method.
"Interestingly, it was the teachers who asked thequestions and it was the children who provided theanswers.
It appears that the right to ask questionswas a high status perrogative.
Furthermore, thequestions were not simply requests for information.The teacher already knew the answer--the point ofthe question was to see if the child knew theanswer.
The question serves primarily as a meansof holding students accountable for the informationacquired from reading the text.
While the utter-ances specify true facts, that is, relations betweensymbols and referents, the form that the propositiontakes again depends upon the social relations bet-ween the interlocutors.Sinclair and Coulthard (1975) also found that manyof the interrogative and declarative sentences usedby teachers in fact served as imperatives.
Forexample, the statement "Somebody's talking," "I seechewing gum" were not to be taken as true descrip-tions but as indirect commands.
They called, aswe prefer to state it, for compliance rather thanassent.Goody (Note 3) in an interesting study of the formsof questioning among the Gonja of Ghana, found thatquestions in that society were not merely means ofsecuring information but were primarily reflectionsof the status of the interlocutors.
Hence, childrenrarely asked questions, not because they had no needfor information, but rather because askinga question of an adult would be to upset the socialorder.
Goody comments: "The securing of informationbecomes secondary to considerations of statusrelations" (p. 42, 1975).The surface form of an utterance depends upon boththe propositional structure and on the pragmaticfunction.
All sentences appear to do both simul-taneously--as we have suggested the symbol simul-taneously stands in a specifiable relation to ameaning--it represents a proposition--and in aspecifiable relation to the speaker and his listener.Both of these dimensions my be invariant acrosssome set of transformations.
Different sentencesmay assert the same proposition, as for exampleactive and passive sentences or declaratives andquestions.
Presumably, as well, sentences withdifferent propositional content may be used toconstruct or maintain the same social relationbetween interlocutors.
There is presumably morethan one way to be obsequious and more than oneway to be insubordinate.Most theories of the pragmatics of language wouldagree, roughly, to this point.
However, even ifthey may be differentiated, it is important tonotice that those two dimensions, the logical andthe social are not independent.
This point may beexpressed by the question: What are the condi-tions under which an utterance can be judged simplyor exclusively for its truth value or its proposi-tional meaning?
And what are the conditions underwhich an utterance will be judged as an order, ora request for action?
Let us distinguish these two118cr i ter ia for interpretat ion by means of labels: thefirst, the judgment for truth or falsity we may saycalls for assent; the second, the response to astatement as a call for action, we may say calls forcompliance.
My conjecture is that certain socialand inst i tut ional  arrangements lead any part icu larutterance to be regarded as a call  for assent whi leothers, as a call for compliance.
Symmetrical ly,certain social condit ions are more l ikely to gener-ate assert ions and information quest ions whi le othersgenerate indirect requests and imperatives.We have examined these conjectures in two ways.First we have examined some transcripts of chi ldren'sdiscourse and secondly we have designed three smallexperiments to fol low up and clari fy some of therelat ions we seem to have isolated in the analys isof transcripts.Nancy Nickerson has recently col lected and begun toanalyze a series of dialogues between pairs of chi ld-ren as they played with toys.
We are intersted bothin the qual i ty of oral expression (in an attemptto see in what ways oral  language competence is re-lated to learning to read) and in the use of state-ments, quest ions and commands in cooperat ing withand control l ing the behaviour of peers.
A l thoughthat project is at an early stage, I shall  presentone analysis of a transcr ipt in terms of the modeldescribed above.
This dialogue occurred between twoNursery School chi ldren named Jamie and Lisa who hadsome di f f iculty arr iv ing at an equitable distr ibu-t ion of a l imited resource, namely some dominoes.Let us see how they use language to negotiate thissocial problem.L: Let's make a domino house out of theseJ: OkayFirst, by grabs.J: Lookit how many I got .... You took a coupleof minelL: Now you took a couple ....Then by commands.L: Now you got to give me three backlL: Now give me just one more and thenwe got the sameAnd then by requestful  declaratives.J: Now, you got more than me-eAnd denials.L: No-o we got the sameBy fact col lect ing and inferencing.L: (Begins to count her dominoes).
One, two,three, four .... twenty-eight,  twenty-nine(Then counts Jamie's dominoes).
One, two,three, four .... eighteen, n ineteen.
.
.
(shortpause) twenty-nine.J: I got n ineteen and you got twenty-nine ....You got more than me.L: No-o (shouting) I COUNTED .... You have thesame as me .... We got the same.J: NO-O-OAnd when negot iat ions break down and again by grasp-ing.
(There is a shuff le of dominoes across thefloor.
)And f inal ly by appeal  to authority.L: You got much more  than me nowJ: No we got the same(Paul, a vo lunteer  teacher, enters the room.
)L: Does he have much more than me?P: Not too many more!Note f irst that almost al l  of these quite dif ferentutterances are attempts to alter or preserve thesocial arrangement of two chi ldren playing togetherand sharing the l imited supply of dominoes.
"Nowyou got to give me three back,"  a command, has thesame pragmatic funct ion as "Now, you got more thanme,"  an assert ion standing as an indirect request,spoken by the same person.
And both speakers appearto be aware of the social  meaning, namely; thatthe l istener should hand over one or more of thedominoes, even if in one case it is the expl icit"give me" and in the other, the impl ic it  "you havemore."
Why then do they use one device rather thananother?We may see how the logical and the social  meaningsinteract if we score each sentence for both itslogical  or "truth" meaning, the assent criterion,and for its social  meaning, the compl icancecriterion.
For the logical  meaning, true may bemarked with a '~" and false with a "-".
For thesocial meaning, the categories are less obvious.We let "+" represent the preservat ion of any currentsocial  arrangement,  i.e., those not requir ing compl i -ance and "-" represent the real ignment of anysocial  re lat ionship- -statements which require com-pl iance and call  for revolut ionary activity, so tospeak.
Now let us examine some fragments of thisdia logue in this framework.Cr i ter ionJ:L:P:Sentence"you gotmore thanme.
""No, wegot thesame.
""Not toomanymore.
"AssentTruthGloss Value(Give me +some)(I don'thave to)(Yes, it.
's +true shehas morebut shedoes nothave togive youany).ComplianceStatus-PreservingNote that Jamie tells the truth with the hope of re-al igning the distr ibut ion of dominoes.
Lisa, techni-cal ly speaking, tells a lie.
(Recall that she wasthe one who counted them).
But her denial  was notmerely one of falsehood.
She knows that if she119agrees to the truth of Jamie's statement, she willhave to turn over some of the blocks.
That shedoesn't want to do so, she denies the statement.
Myguess is that that is what all lies are--tamperingwith truth value for social or personal ends.
Truth,like falsehood is motivated.More than that.
Lisa is not denying the truth ofJamie's statement simply in the service of socialends.
Rather, i would guess, she does not know anymeans of simultaneously meeting both the social andlogical criteria.
Paul, the teacherdoes.
i\]ote his reply when Jamie appeals to him.The presupposition of his sentence is that Lisa hasmore.
Rather than deny it, he presupposes it anduses his sentence to hold that no redistribution isrequired, presumably on the premise that possessionis nine-tenths of the law.1,~at I would like to suggest from this example isthat truth conditions are not separated from socialutility.
Claims of truth will be advanced primarilyif the gaining of assent implies compliance with somesocial goal.
Symmetrically, denials of truth willbe offered if the social consequence of assent areperceived to be undesirable.It is at this point that social relations enter intothe language.
Micro social orders, small scale tran-;saetions, like the one mentioned above, involve thesolution of small-scale interpersonal problems ~zhichmust be solved either for individual machiavell iangoals or for shared social goals.
The main problemis how to secure compliance, agreement or at leastto prevent the loss of the status quo (An interest-ing expression).
That may be done by several means,direct action, commanding, pleading, or hard negoti-ation on a common ground.
Facts are one such ground,which as we have seen, are overlooked if they areembarassing; authority is another such ground, whichas we have seen, tries to get involved or take sides.iDisputes in the larger social order appear to besolved on somewhat similar means.
As Foucault(1971) pointed out, different social orders makeuse of different criteria for truth and hence dif-ferent grounds for the legitimation of the socialorder.
Authority, the father in a patriarchical or-der or the priest in an ecclesiastical order, hasthe power to decide in the case of disputes, as judgesdo in our own courts.
Hopefully, they have adequaterecourse to the truth, but poor judgments carryjust as much weight as good ones.
The decisionslikely to gain the greatest compliance have both.It is interesting to recall in this context thewisdom of Solomon.
One may wonder if Solomon'sjudgments were considered so good because he wasso wise or because he happened as well, to be king.More likely the stories of his wisdom and justice,helped to legitimize the authority that was social-ly assigned to him.In our own society, great weight is assigned to"truth","facts", "sense data" as objective grounds for mak-ing scientific, social and political decisions.
Aslong as people believe that truth is ohjective,it serves as an important means of "legitimizing"a social order (Habermas, 1973).
Furthermore theestablishment of institutions like universities de-voted to discovering the "truth" independent of itssocial utility, helps to sustain the view that thereare such facts and that those facts can be used tosustain the social order.
(Hence, we may count onsome continued support even if we were (God forbid)unsuccessful in finding any such truths.
)single argument between two four-year-oids may bein-sufficient empirical grounds to sustain a generalsocial theory, hence, we have attempted to furtherexamine some of these expressions and their inter-pretations by experimental means.
Angela Hildyardrecently took some of the statements from our t ran~cripts and built them into a series of ten stories.Here is one of these:One Saturday morning Susie and KevinJones went to the movies.
Their mumgave them some money to buy some pop-corn.
Susie bought a large box andthey shared it out.
When Kevin lookedat Susie's share he didn't feel toohappy.
"You've got more than me" hesaid.The stories describing social predicaments of thissort were each followed by a recall test, e.g.,What did they buy to eat?
What did Kevin say?The most interesting results came from Kingergartenand Grade 2 children's reply to the second questio~lO090807O.~ 60,-Im5o~ 40302Ol00/ // // // // // // // // /\ [ \ ]  Jr. Itindergarten(4 years)\ [~  Grade 2(7 years)DirectandIndirectRequestsVerbatim VerbatimRecall Recall(plus (withoutknowledge knowledgeof ofindirect indirectrequest) request)NoResponseFigure 2.
The recall of declarativestatements as given (verbati~and as direct and indirectrequests by Junior Kinder-garten and Grade 2 children.Junior kindergarten children (Aged 4 and 5 years),when asked what Kevin had said would frequentlyanswer with a request or a command, "Can I havesome?"
or "Give me some popcorn."
By the second120grade (Aged 7 and 8), children tended to recall thestatement verbat im: "You have more than me".
Whenfurther queried as to why he said that, they replied,"Because he wanted more".
These results are shown inFigure 2.
The implication of these findings is thatalmost all of the children interpreted the statement,"You have more than me" not simply as a true state-ment but rather as an indirect request and that inter-pretation biased the recall of the younger subjects.Older subjects remembered both what was intendedby the sentence and the means the speaker used, herea declarative, true statement, to achieve it.
Thatis, the sentence was not interpreted and evaluatedstrictly or even primarily on truth criteria but onsocial ones.
And the younger the children, thestronger the tendency to treat the sentence as a callfor compliance and hence to report it as such.These findings are similar to those we have obtainedearlier in our studies of recall and inference fromstories with children of different a~es in which weshowed that recall tends to be of "what was meant"rather than "what was said" and that with age (andschooling) children come to be able to differentiatethe two (Hildyard and Olson, in press).In a further study, ilildyard read the stories, exclud-ing the last line, to Kindergarten (age 5) and Grade 2(Age 7) children, and adults and asked them to imaginewhat the victim said--in the above story, for example,"What do you think Kevin said to Susie?"
Therewere two important additional factors.
First, thechild may be either demanding a right--it may be thathe is asking for his own sock back--or a favor--hemay be asking for something that actually belongs tothe other child.
Further they could be asking theserights or favors of low status individuals, youngchildren, or high status individuals, parents andteachers.
There were 16 subjects at each grade leveland there were three stories of each type.Again, I shall mention only the most interestingresults.
First, favors were much more likely tobe signalled by a conventionalized request than wererights.
Over all age levels and item types, thefavor items were marked by requests 77% of the timewhile rights were so marked only 45% of the time.How rights were signalled varied with the age of thesubjects.
The youngest subjects use direct commandsto their peers and conventionalized requests totheir parents and teachers.
Thus they may say,"Give me my sock" to a peer and '~ay I have my goldstar" (which had been promised) to the teacher.Adult subjects, while they use requests for favors,rarely use commands in attempts at obtaining theirrights and tend rather to use declaratives "You havemy sock", and questions, "Do you know where my sockis?"
Adults use this device 33% of the time whilechildren of both ages use it about 15% of the time.Adults, in obtaining their rights also use "legiti~mized requests", requests accompanied by reasonsmore so than do the children.
These results arepresented in Table i.Note that in all of these cases, subjects aspiredto the same goal--either through their direct mean-ing or in their indirect meanings they conveyed thesame illocutionary force.
Yet the utterance usedto express that intention took a different form de-pending upon the social relations between theparticipants.
Primary among those factors is thestatus relations between them--commands may be is-Table iThe use of various forms of directives as a functionof the type of request, rights vs. favors,and the status relations involvediKindergarten Grade 2 Adult TotalN=I6 N=I6 N=I6Use ofConvention-alized RequestsFavors 86 86 58Rights 59 49 27Use ofCommandsFavors 5 2 i0Rights 19 6 14Deciarativesand QuestionsFavors 7 5 14Rights 13 18 33LegitimizedRequestsFavors i 6 iiRights 5 24 19Threats,Negotiations,AppealsFavors 0 0 7Rights 0 3 677%45%6%13%9%21%6%16%3%3%sued to lower status individuals, requests must beissued to superiors even if you are only asking foryour rights.
Secondly, the presumed rights, thestatus quo, determines the form in which that illo-cutionary force will be expressed.
Favors arelargely expressed through requests, althoughadults also frequently add reasons, while rights maybe expressed through commands, occasionally throughthreats, or through the provision of reasons (De-claratives and Questions).
Ervin-Tripp (1977) hasrecently cited similar results from an unpublishedstudy by Sharon James.In a third study, Beverly Wolfus gave Kindergartenand Grade 2 children a series of direct co ,andssuch as (Tell me what this is~ Put the penny inthe glassY) and ambiguous ability requests (Canyou turn over the cup?
Could you tell me the nameof this?
), while pointing to a cup or other objectsand observed how children interpreted and respondedto them.
She was particularly interested inwhether the children opted for the direct expressedmeaning or the indirect pragmatic meaning of theambiguous expressions.
Thus "Tell me if you can putthe penny in the glass" could be answered by assent,"Yes I can"--the direct meaning--or by compliance,by actually putting the penny in the glass--theindirect, or pragmatic meaning.
When issued directcommands, both age groups complied extremely con-sistently.
Told "Open the book", everyone openedthe book.
To "Tell me what this is" every onesaid, "A pen".121The differences in the responses to ambiguous ques-tions and statements for the two age groups werestriking.
These differences occurred in responseto the questions and statements which were ambiguousbetween a propositional and a pragmatic interpreta-tion, that is ambiguous in their call for assent asopposed to compliance.
To the statement "Can youturn over the cup?"
older children would say "Yes",that is; assent, younger children would silently turnit over, that is, comply.
To "Tell me if you canput the penny in the glass", older children wouldassent by saying "Yes" or "I can", younger childrenwould comply by putting the penny in the cup.
To"Do you know what this is?"
while pointing at apenny or a cup, older children would assent by re-plying "Yes", young children would comply by reply-ing "Penny" or "Cup".
To the statement, "The bookis closed", young children would, more often thanolder children, silently open it, older childrenwould not but rather await further information.These results are shown in Table 2.Table 2Assent versus compliance in Kindergarten andGrade 2 children's interpretation of sentencesAssent Compliance BothPut the top on the pen.Kindergarten 100%Grade 2 100%Tell me what this is.Kindergarten 100%Grade 2 100%Tell me if you can X.Kindergarten 8% 83% 8%Grade 2 69% 29% 2%Tell me if you know howto X.Kindergarten 13% 64% 8%Grade 2 66% 27% 8%Do you know what thisis?Kindergarten 5% 88% 8%Grade 2 30% 67% 3%Can you turn over thecup?Kindergarten 8% 64% 24%Grade 2 64% 19% 18%Do you know how to X?Kindergarten 25% ii% 64%Grade 2 91% 3% 5%The book is closed.Kindergarten 73% 20%Grade 2 92% 8%7%Overall, these data show that the younger childrentook every utterance in terms of its expressed orimplied il locutionary force and complied with it,while older children tended to differentiate thedirect meaning from its indirect il locutionaryforce and respond to the direct meaning.
Ervin-Tripp (1977), observed a similar affect.
When toldto "Say why don't you stand up" the child said"Stand upS" and stood up--that is, he complied.Again this indicates that the meaning of the state-ment is, at least at the beginning, not simply itstruth value, although that meaning may be calculatedas part of its more pragmatic meaning.
Rather, thesentences are scanned, as it were, for their impli-cations for action, and that is what the youngestchildren tend to opt for.
Further we can see someindication of the transition from compliance toassent in the Kindergarten children in the item"Do you know how to X?"
Here these young subjectswould first assent and then comply 64% of the time.Again, with age or schooling, children begin todifferentiate the propositional from the pragmaticmeaning and to be able to respond to either of them.However, it appears that this propositional meaningis not primary but rather specialized out of aprimary undifferentiated social pragmatic meaning.Note that one of the factors that appears to givethose simple declarative sentences a powerful il-locutionary force for the youngest children is thatthey are spoken by an adult in a school context.The child assumes that the adult is not just statingor asserting some thing "The book is open" but in-directly requesting that something be done aboutit.
Given a high status individual in a hierarchi-cally structured institutional context, the childassumes that any utterance requires compliance notassent.Let us return, in conclusion, to some of the gener-al issues raised at the outset.
I have argued thatall utterances serve both objective (truth) functionsand social (compliance) functions and that theseare not independent.
Many examples from the studiesshowed that the form which a directive takes de-pends upon the status relations between the inter-locutors.
This is clearly the case for imperativesand requests--requests are more likely for privi-ledges and imperatives for rights.
Requests aremore likely to higher status individuals and imper-atives to lower status individuals.
Imperativesoccur more frequently when children address lowerstatus individuals and rationalized questions, de-claratives and requests occur more f requent lyin the language of adults.
Further the evidenceshowed that almost any form of utterance from ahigh status individual including a declarativesentence such as "The book is open" tended to beinterpreted as an indirect imperative when spokento a lower status individual.
That is, the state-ment called for compliance rather than assent.Our question at this point is whether or not statusdifferences, differences in the social relationsbetween speakers affect the interpretation ofstatements with the putative status of true des-criptions.
Generally, are claims of truth inde-pendent of claims of status?As I have suggested, putative true statements callfor assent (or falsification) while putative imper-atives call for compliance (or defiance).
But,as we have seen, if a true description is given bya high status individual, a lower status individualmay respond with compliance rather than assent.Can the two criteria be specialized?
Can state-122ments ever be constructed such that they call forassent and not compliance?
If not why are theresuch things as assertions?
The fact that some state-ments can be assented to indicate that the truthfunctions can be isolated at least somewhat fromtheir more general social functions.
Even in thatcase however, the true statements would be generat-ed (or denied) when they have social utility, muchas Lisa denied Jamie's statement that she had more.The alternative, however, that the meaning of asentence is purely subjective, that is whatever youcan get a listener to comply with, is even more pre-carious.
As Harr~ (1974) pointed out this is aterritory suited only for the bravest machiavelians--to assume the status to make demands and declara-tions and to continue to do so until someone refu-ses to comply.A more promising approach would be to argue that themeanings of utterances can gain their agreementfrom speakers on the two bases we have discussedand that these two bases are in continuous inter-action.
One may get agreement, either assent orcompliance, simply because of the status relationsinvolved.
One is in a position to cormnand or todeclare that such and such is the case and theother, agreeing to that higher status, receivesthose commands and declarations and assents or com-plies with them.
The bulk of social negotiationsproceed on this basis.
But if there is a collapseof the social order, or a condition of generalequality, no one person is in a position to demandeither assent or compliance.
Then the ground forthe adjudication of disputesor more simply forthe negotiation of meaning falls on to the objec-tive, descriptive, or logical dimension of meaning.It is, presumably, easier to gain assent than togain compliance; hence the importance of truth inany social order.
And in the microsocial order,negotiations are carried out by any means available,but as Friere (1972) has suggested, genuine con-versation is possible only between equals.Reference NotesFeldman, C.F.
and Wertsch, J.V.
Context depend-ent properties of teachers' speech.
(pre-print)Gumperz, J.J.
Language, social knowledge andinterpersonal relations.
Language BehaviourResearch Laboratory, University of California,Berkeley.
(mimeo.
)Goody, E. Towards a theory of questions.
Draftof the Malinowski Lecture, London School ofEconomics, 1975.ReferencesAustin, J.L.
How to do things with words.
NewYork: Oxford University Press, 1962.Bartlett, F.C.
Remembering.
New York: CambridgeUniversity Press, 1977.Bellack, A.A., Kliebard, H.M., Hyman, R.T. andSmith, F.L.
The language of the classroom.New York: Teacher's Colle~ge Press, 1966.Bernstein, B.
Class, codes and control.
London:P~P, 1971.Bruner, J.S.
On perceptual readiness.
PsYchologicalReview, 1957, 64, 123-52.Bruner, J.S.
Introduction.
In J.S.
Bruner, R. Olverand P.M. Greenfield (Eds.
), Studies in cognitivegrowth.
New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1966.Chomsky, N. Problems of knowledge and freedom.London: Fontana, 1972.Clark, H.H.
and Clark, E.V, Psychology and langu-age.
New York: Harcourt, Brace and Jovanovich,1977.Douglas, H. Implicit meanings.
London: RKP,1975.Ervin-Trip, S. Wait for me, Roller-Skate!
InS.
Ervin-Tripp and C. Mitchell-Kernan (Eds.
),Child discourse.
New York: Academic Press,1977.Foucault, M. L'ordre du discours.
Paris:Gallimard, 1971.Friere, P. Pedogogy of the oppressed.
New York:Herder and Herder, 1972.Goodman, N. Languages o f  art.
Indianapolis:Bobbs-Merrill, 1968.Habermas, J. Legitimation crisis.
Boston:Beacon Press, 1973.Halliday, II.A.K.
Language structure and languagefunction.
In J. Lyons (Ed.
), New horizons inlinguistics.
Harmondsworth: Penguin Books,1970.Halliday, M.A.K.
Explorations in the functions oflanguage.
London: Edward Arnold, i973.HarrY, R. Ethology and early socialization.
InM.P.M.
Richards (Ed.
), The integration of thechild into the social wor~id.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press, 1974.Hildyard,, A. and Olson, D.R.
Memory and inferencein the comprehension of oral and writtendiscourse.
Discourse Comprehension.
(in press)Labov, W. Language in the inner city.
Oxford:Blackwell, 1972sLukes, S. Emile Durkheim.
Markham, Ontario:Penguin Press, 1973.Mitchell-Kernan, C. and Kernan, K.T.
Pragmaticsof directive choice among children.
InS.
Ervin-Tripp and C. Mitchell-Kernan (Eds.
),Child discourse.
New York: Academic Press,1977.123Olson, D.R.
and Nickerson, N. Language developmentthrough the school years.
In K.E.
Nelson (Ed.
),Language development.
New York: Gardner Press.
(in press)Searie, J.
Speech acts.
Cambridge: CambridgeUniversity Press, 1969.Searle, J.
Indirect speech acts.
In P. Cole andJ.
Morgan (Eds.
), S)~ntax and semantics.
Volume3: Speech Acts.
New York: Academic Press,1975.Sinclair, J. and Coulthard, R.M.
Towards an analys-is of discourse: The English used by teachersand pupils.
London: Oxford university Press,1975.Vygotsky, L.M.
Thought and language.
Cambridge,Mass.
: M.I.T.
Press, 1962.Whorf, B.L.
Language, thought and reality.
NewYork: Wiley, 1956.124
