The Use of Focus as a Tool forDisambiguation of Definite Noun PhrasesbyCandace L. SidnerM|T Artificial Intelligence LaboratoryCambridge, Massachusetts1.
Introduction to the ProblemWhen speakers I utter or write sentences, they usecertain words in the sentence to refer to people, places,object, times, events and ideas which exist in the real world.When sentences are formed into units of two or moresentences, certain words refer back to other referringexpressions in' the previous sentences.
Among the wordswhich can be used to refer to the real world as well as torefer back (which is called the process of co-reference) arenoun phrases containing a definite article, such as the (calleddefnps, hereafter).
Several aspects of comprehension ofdefnps are open problems:1.)
What is the definition of the reference of a defnp?That is, what to we mean by reference incomputational linguisitics?2.)
How are defnps which are used to co-refer into adiscourse distinguished from those which refer toreal world objects outside the discourse?3.)
What methods of search will distinguish the referentof a defnp which refers to an entity outside thediscourse context?4.)
What different wayscan defnps be used to co-referto other entities in the discourse?5.)
How can co-reference of defnps be detected?6.)
What inferences and data structures will be neededfor the detection process?
The work of Winograd\[1971\], Charniak \[1972\] and Rieger \[1973\] suggestthat inferencing is crucial to the interpretation ofco-reference.This paper presents a viewpoint from which toanswer these questions based on the concept of focus, asdeveloped by Grosz \[1977\] and the author (Bullwinkle \[1977\]).This paper extends' Grosz' work by establishing a frameworkfor communication and a set of rules for use of focus indiscourse.
The approach taken here represents an alternativeto the inference driven schemes of Charniak and Rieger.2.
The Communication Process and FocusThe description of the communication process givenhere contains four simple assumptions which are generally trueand will be taken as true in this work.
First, the speaker isassumed to be communicating about something.
Thisassumption implies that the speaker is not speaking gibberish,that there are referring expressions and either requests,questions, assertions or acknowledgements being made.
Thesomething which the communication is about will be called thefocus of the discourse.
2 Second, the hearer is assumed to beable to identify what the focus of the discourse is.
Thespeaker wants to communicate about something, and for thecommunication to occur, the hearer must be able to distinguishwhat the speaker is communicating about.
Third, the speakeris not trying to confuse or deceive the hearer.
The speakeruses referring expressions with the intention of referring tosomeone or something, or with the intention of describingsomething or some event.
In Gricean 3 terms, the byword is"Be perspicuous."
The final assumption claims that the speakerassumes the hearer knows certain knowledge about thereal-world which can be referred to during the communicationprocess, Recent research (Cohen \[1978\]), as well as the wellknown work  of Searle \[1969\] and Austin \[\]962\], describemodels of the speaker's knowledge of what the hearerbelieves.
In this chapter, the weakest form of such a model isassumed: the speaker assumes the hearer has enoughreal-world knowledge in common with the speaker to know theentities which the speaker refers to, and that knowledge iswhat the speaker draws on in constructing a message for ahearer.
These four assumptions will play an important part inthe discussion of co-reference interpretation which follows.1.
I will use the term speaker to refer to the producer of aspoken or written discourse and hearer to refer to thereceiver of the discourse.2.
!
don't want |o suggest that only one thing can becommunicated in a discourse, for speakers do direct theirattention from one thing to another.
For the moment, I willspeak of the focus as the first center of attention in aspeaker's discourse.3.
Grice, H.P.
"Logic and Conversatron" etc.86This paper makes the claim that the focus acts as anindex function for referring expressions.
For those referringexpressions which are anaph0ric, the focus indicates where tolook for an antecendent.
For those referring expressionswhich are names or descriptions of things in the world, thefocus acts as a generation center for a process that chooses arepresentation of a real world entity which fits the name ordescription.
However, the focus of a discourse alone is notsufficient to produce the indexing behavior.
The focus must beused in  conjunction with a hierarchical semantic network ofassociations.
The network will indicate what other conceptsare related to the focus.
It is a codification of some of thegeneral knowledge speakers and hearers have about the realworld.
The network is a dynamic structure because the heareradds to his/her general knowledge in the process ofinterpreting a piece of discourse.
Focus must also act with athird piece of computational machinery, an inferencingmechanism.
It is used to infer from general knowledge andsome suppositions that a certain proposition is true.An example will be helpful here.
In the discoursebelow, the focus of discussion is the meeting of D0-1.DO-1 I want to schedule a meeting with Ira.2 It should be at 3 p.m.3 We can get together in his office.4 \]nvite John to come, too.All four sentences give information about the focussed entity.Thus in DO both sentences 3 and Zl make no direct referenceto the meeting of D0- t .
As human ?
hearers, we know thatthese sentences are related to the rest of DO because theygive information about the focus meeting.
\]n DO-3 there arethree clues which connect this sentence and the rest of thediscourse: the use of get together, the co-reference of we tothe participants of the meeting, and his office establishing aplace for a meeting.
DO-4 introduces an additional participant ?which can be surmised from the use of invite, and the fact thatthe ellipsis of the event that John is invited to is the focus.A piece of the hierarchical net needed for DO is?
given below in figure !.
A prototype meetings has associatedplaces, times, pai'ticipants, and purposes.
The relationbetween meeting and place is one of occurrence while therelation between meeting and purposes is one of causality.When DO-\] is encountered, the hierarchical net grows a newmember: an instance of meeting from D0-1.
I t  inherits theassociated entities of meetings and some specific values forthe participant entity.
1:)0-2 indicates that something (called it)will Occur at a particular time; The focus of D0-1 is meeting,so the focus, meeting, is proposed as the antecedent of it.
ToFig.
1.
Instances of a General Meeting Conceptj meetingplace ome par  "" t. .
i. icipant purposemeeting-with-St anoczyk I I " .
.~  u" /place: 801 ~/.time: Thursday-at:3 participants: Stanoczyk, Lewinconfirm the proposal, the inference mechanism checks to see ifmeetings occur at times.
Indeed they do, so the proposal ofmeeting as antecedent of it is accepted.The explanation about the use of focus is not reallyso simple because the focus of a discourse changes.
Theinterpretation of focus requires a means of recognizing thatthe focus has changed to some other entity.
In DO' the focusbegins on meeting, but the it in D0'-3 has my office as itsco-referent, not the meeting.
Detecting this co-referencerequires a means of noticing a shift of focus and using theinferencing mechanism to confirm the choice of co-referent.Focus shift detection will not be discussed here; the reader isreferred to Bullwinkle \[1977\] for a discussion of focus shiftwhere the term =sub-topic shift" is used.DO'-\] !
Want to schedule a meeting with George, Jim,Steve and Mike.2 We can meet in my office.3 It's kind of small, but the meeting won't last verylong anyway.3.
Reference in Computational TermsThe theory presented here distinguishes two kindsof referring.
The first is an internal reference between a nounphrase and some pre-existing database object.
That databaseobject represents a real world entity, in Figure 2 belowinternal reference links the noun phrase NP1 "Jimmy Carter" toa representation of Jimmy Carter (who is described aspresident of the US, etc.)..
How the noun phrase and thedatabase object refer to the real world is the classicalsemantic problem of reference (cf.
Kripke \[1972\] amongothers) and is beyond the scope of this work.
The other kindof referring is co-reference.
Co-reference links a noun phraseto another noun phrase.
The two noun phrases are said toco-refer, and both internally refer to the same databaseobject, both refer to the real world object.
In Figure 1, thedashed link from NP2 "Jimmy" to NPI is a co-reference link.The dot-dash link from NP2 to the database object is a virtualinternal reference link which results from the co-reference linkfrom NP2 to NP!
and from the internal reference link from NPI?
to the database object.
Internal reference and co-referencelinks are distinguished because co-reference links can beestablished more easily using discourse context, which will bediscussed in detail later in this paper.
In the remainder ofthis paper when \[ speak of internal reference, \] will drop thephrase "internal" and use only "reference.
"A computational theory of co-referencecomprehension must answer the following questions about theuse of referential terms in natural language:(1) Does the expression refer to someone or something?
(2) What conceptual entity in the memory or thedatabase of the hearer's knowledge, if any, isdenoted by the referring expression?
(3) When does a given expression refer to the sameentity as another referring expression?The expression Julius Caesar is used to refer, and can refer tothe person represented in the heater's knowledge as Julius87Fil~.
2.
Reference Links Between Noun Phrases/ co-referenceNP\] "Jimmy Carter" NP2 "Jimmy"rnal virtual ~ erence internal reference ~, /ldDatabase Representation of Jimmy CarterName: Jimmy Carteroccupation: President of USbirthplace: GeorgiaCaesar.
To answer the first question above, the hearer mustdecide that names are referring expressions.
To answer thesecond question, the hearer must decide 1) whether JuliusCaesar refers uniquely and 2) what conceptual entity in thebearer's memory represents the hearer's real-world referent.These two decisions together with the initial assumptionsappear to make necessary and sufficient conditions forcomprehension since by deciding that Julius Caesar refersuniquely and choosing a conceptual entity, the hearer hasdecoded what entity the speaker was referring to.There are, however, situations where the hearer'schoices to the above decisions and the speaker's intendedreferent do not coincide.
Suppose the hearer decides thatJulius Caesar refers uniquely and refers to Julius Caesar, whowas a Roman emperor.
The speaker may also have intended itto refer uniquely, but to the author's deceased cat, whosename was Julius Caesar.
Now there are three possibilities:either the hearer knew about Julius Caesar the cat, butdecided the expression referred to Julius the emperor, or thehearer only knew about the emperor, or the hearer didn'tknow of either.
In the last case, the hearer "found" a referentby a chance from randomly linking up the name and somememory representation.
The last possibility does not fit adescription of reference comprehension of any kind.
Randomlyhooking up information from one's memory to what appears tobe a referring expression may be a cognitive act, butintuit ively no one would call it reference comprehension.In the case wh~re the hearer only knew about theemperor, it seems safe to conclude that the reference mayhave been comprehended, but incompletely.
As we shall see,there are many other clues in communication about thereferent of terms than those given by referring expressions inisolation.
Without these, reference comprehension isincomplete because the hearer has no means of knowingwhether s/he may have the wrong referent.
Even with thebest set of clues, the hearer may still choose Julius theemperor.
Here we will say that comprehension has takenplace, completely but incorrectly, because the hearer has usedall the relevant communication knowledge to decode thespeaker's message.
What can be concluded is that thespeaker's rules for reference generation and/or the speaker'sknowledge of the hearer is faulty (thereby contradicting thespeaker's assumption above).In the case where the hearer knows of bothpossibilities and chooses the incorrect one, the hearer mayhave erred due to failure to follow other communication cluesor again because the speaker's rules and knowledge werelacking.
In conclusion, a referring expression is comprehendedas intended, if and only if the same referent as that intendedby  the speaker is chosen from the entities in memory.
Theexpression is otherwise just comprehended when the hearerchooses an entity from memory which is denoted by thereferring expression using all the available communicationclues but does not choose the same entity as intended by thespeaker.
An expression will be-considered incompletelycomprehended if the hearer fails to use all the 'communicationcues available at the time the communication occurs.So far !
have not considered the possibility of erroron the part of the hearer because of the heater's beliefs.Suppose, for example, that the hearer believes the speakerhates to even speak of cats.
Then the hearer may concludethat Julius Caesar is most likely a reference to the emperor ofRome.
\] am not going to consider this possibility in theforthcoming discussion; instead I will restrict the discussion tocues from the communication process.
Hearer beliefs raise aseparate set of philosophical as well as computationalproblems and entends the scope of this study too broadly.However, the issues are significant in the total picture ofreference and co-reference comprehension.In the remainder of this paper \[ will considerco-reference comprehension just from the hearer's point ofview.
Thus it1 discussing referential and co-referentialexpressions, \] wifl be concerned with a model of how thehearer disambiguates these expressions used in discourse.
Bysymmetry, one might suppose that the generation ofreferential expressions by a speaker could make use of asimilar model.
Such a supposition will remain untested in thispaper and is to be verified by later work.
Furthermore, \] willnot be concerned with comprehension as intended since thisprocess requires the additional information of what the hearerbelieves that the speaker knows about, instead !
will pointout at var ious times how the theory under discussion wouldneed modification if hearer's beliefs were included.4.
Problems with Definite Noun PhrasesDefinite noun phrases can be used to refer toentities in the real world.
Russell \[1905\] says of theexpression the author of Waverly that it denotes Sir WalterScott, and that when it is strictly used, a defnp denotesuniquely.
4 Thus by us!ng a definite article, a speaker is sayingin effect "there is one object in the world denoted by thephrase that follows and \] mean that one."
Of course a defnpmay be used to denote someone without actually denotinganyone, as is the case with the woman who wrote Waverly.This defnp is used to refer to someone, but there is noconceptual representation in the hearer's (or for that matter,the speaker's) memory which corresponds to a real world4.
By strictly used Russell means used without ambiguity.88ent i ty  assuming the normal case.
5 Nothing in the syntactic orsemantic form of the expression itself suggests that theexpression has no denotation.
How can the hearer determinewhether  the defnp refers to someone or not?
Of course, ifthere exists a memory entity the author of Waverly, which isattr ibuted as male, the hearer can decide that the expressiondoes not refer to anyone on the basis of a contradiction.
Butif no memory entity exists, the hearer cannot decide whetherthe woman who wrote Waverly refers to anyone.
This way oflooking at defnps, however, fails to account for all thephenomena of defnps because it involves an assumption whichis not true.The Russell!an analysis has difficulties becausedefnps are not always used to refer!
The problem is not onlywhether  a particular defnp actually denotes a real worldob ject ;  it is also a question of whether the defnps is intendedto refer  at all.
Even more surprising, a defnp may be used torefer,  but the speaker may not intend for the hearer to knowthe referent  of the defnp; the defnp form is used to indicatethat the referent is knowable, but possibly not significant forthe communication at hand.
Donnel~an \[1977\] points out thatsome defnps are used attributively, if we happen upon Smithwho lies dead with foul wounds, one can say "Smith's murdereris insane."
Used attributively, Smith's murderer does not referto anyone, and the phrase does not describe a particularperson, it is as if to say, Smith was murdered and themurderer,  whoever that may be, is insane.
Thus the speakerusing an attr ibutive defnp does not assume that someone fitsthe description, whereas with a referential defnp the speakerexpects the  hearer to realize who is being pointed to.The other distinction a speaker can make is to use adefnp to indicate that the referent is knowable.
Thus if onesays:(1) Larry read a lot of linguistics in the hospital.
(2) Larry read a lot of linguistics in a hospital.the (2) usage is not the same as the (1).
While the hearerdoes not know which hospital the hospital refers to, it is clearit refers to some particular one.
Comprehension of thereferent ia l  term does not involve finding a memory entitywhich represents the real world entity that the expressionrefers to.
For reference comprehension, this concern isconsiderable since the Chinese government in (3) does notdemand reference disambiguation, while (4) does; thedisambiguation is difficult because the expression can refer tomore than one thing.
(3) John got help from the Chinese government inadopting an Oriental child.
(4) Get a visa for your trip from the Chinesegovernment.Another difficulty with defnps is that sometimes theyare used not to refer to or to describe specific individuals orobjects, but to characterize a class of entities with the5.
Possible world semantics will not be discussed here.Issues of t ranswor ld  identity and designation by definitedescriptions may require more machinery than is consideredhere.propert ies  of th e head noun phrase and any of its modifiers.Thus (e l )  used in this way does not refer to an individual.
Itcharacterizes a member of the class of individuals who aremen and book writers.
(e l )  is similar to attribution except thatthe description applies to a class.
(e l )  the man who writes booksSo far, then, the following classes of defnps can be stated.
Adefnp that is used to refer uniquely to one entity, whether ornot such an ent i ty exists in the real world, is a specific defnp.A defnp that characterizes a class of entities by means of anindividual whose properties are delineated by the propertiesof the head noun phrase and its modifiers is a generic defnp.A defnp is attr ibutive if it describes an entity withoutreferr ing.
A defnp can be ambiguous in use (u-ambiguoushereafter)  if its use as a specific, attributive or generic is notidentif iable, while a defnp is ambiguous in reference(r-ambiguous hereafter) if it is used specifically and there ismore than one entity fitting the description of the defnp.5.
General Role of Context in DisambiguationLittle of language, if any at all, is said without somesurrounding contexts of information.
For example, mostconversations happen in a location where there are otherobjects present.
Most stories have at least the context ofthere  being a story teller, a hearer and the story being told.There are contexts, with more presumed common knowledge,such as what the hearer knows of the speaker's own identityor some shared additional information between them (e.g.
theyhave children or parents in common).Contexts are needed to determine what a defnprefers to.
If \] say (5), when I am standing in my kitchen with afr iend, the defnp, if specific, must refer to some unique objectin the world.
(5) Get me the hot dish holder.There may be lots of hot dish holders denoted by conceptualentit ies in my friend's mind, but !
am referring to a specificone.
Since nothing in (.5) distinguishes the one !
mean fromthe whole collection, either | have misused the language, orthere is a context which contains only one such hot dishholder, and my friend is aware of that context at the time ofmy saying (5).
In this case, the necessary context is thekitchen, and the referent is probably an item in the kitchen.Reference made to an object external to the conversion incalled extra-sentential  reference.
It is discussed here toexempl i fy  the role of one class of contexts used in referencedetermination.
\] call contexts of reference which exist inadditional to the one created by the discourse implicitcontexts.
In this paper I will show how use of implicitcontexts can avoid the problem of searching a generaldatabase for the entities denoted by defnps.Other defnps make use of different implicit contexts.Instead of an implicit context consisting of objects near thespeaker, the implicit context may be events that the speakerbel ieves are common to the hearer.
The speaker who opens adialogue with (6) below is assuming some previous context (adiscussion with the hearer or some other situation) where thereference of the A.L Lab Language Group was first established.In (7), the speaker is again assuming a pro-establishedreferent ,  but since the hearer may know of several different89dogs, some specific context must be chosen that willdistinguish a single dog.
Later in this paper some heurisiticsfor choosing a context will be discussed.
(6) The A.L lab Language Group wants to meet next week.
(7) The dog is sick again.Contextual information of yet another kind appearsin story telling.
At the beginning of a story, the hearerexpects characters to be introduced.
Sometimes this is donewith indefinite noun phrases, which are a way all discoursesintroduce new items, but often a story-teller uses names ordefnps as (8) below shows.
(8) The heiress lived the life Of a recluse.
She diedunder mysterious circumstances, but the murdererwas never found./(8) is not a case of cataphoric referencing (referring forwardin a text) since the phrase the heiress can fully specify anobject itself.
However, hearers of (8) do not have to searchtheir memories for a referent to the heiress in (8).
They usethe context of story beginning to guide them in referencedisambiguation.6.
Distinguishing GenericsDefnps must be disambiguated as generic ornon-generic.
As will be shown later, generics in the midst of adiscourse can be easily disambiguated, but in an initialsentence only implicit contexts may exist in which aco-referent can be found to use in disambiguation.
Implicitcontexts may be helpful in some cases, but in general they arenot sufficient to indicate the int~erpretation.
However certainrules can be postulated based on observable sentence data.Thisdata indicates that there are several levels of sententialand phrasal information used for disambiguation.
The ruleswhich will be summarized 6 here give preferences for genericand non-generic readings.Some rules govern whether the defnp itself ispreferred as a generic or non-generic reading.
A smallcollection of phrases like the sun, the moon and the presidentdefault to specific, well defined entities.
Which entities aredefaulted to depends on the presence or absence of an implicitcontext to which the phrase may co-refer.
For other defnps, a"yes" answer to (1) of the following questions indicates aspecific reading preference, while a "yes" to (2) and (3)indicates a generic:1.)
Is there a specific individual so described?2.)
Is there a class use acceptable for this pair?3.)
Are there many individuals described but noneoutstanding?
"No" answers to all causes a preferred specific reading.Question (2) is necessary because generic readings aredifficult to obtain for certain classes of entities.
Thus colorwords like black, red, yellow and white applied to mandescribe a class specification while the other color wordsindicate a non-generic description.6.
See Sidner \[forthcoming\] for a full specification of theinterpretation rules.in addition to phrasal preferences, predicateargument relations for certain verbs may indicate a preferrednon-generic reading.
In these cases, a u-ambiguous defnp willbe taken as a non-generic, and a generic defnp will cause anodd sentence.
(9) The black man Was moving towards the window.
(10) The woman who reads Total Woman is coming todinner on Saturday.Some classes of speech acts are also distinctly generic.
Theis-a sentence below is always generic; this reading may resultfrom the use of is-a to indicate further characteristics of thesubject.
The announcement speech act in (12) is generic aslong as an implicit context does not exist which contains anacceptable co-reference for the defnp.
(11) The elephant is a large mammal.
(12) I want to tell you about the orangetang.Speaker-hearer assumptions about perspicuity canforce a reading to be generic or non-generic.
The defnp in(13) is forced to be read generically because a specific readingwould be r-ambiguous and therefore not perspicuous.
On theother hand, (14) is odd since invite requires a non-genericobject.
However, because the speaker is assumed to bemaintaining perspicuity, the hearer may attempt to read thedefnp in (14) as a non-generic.
(13) Bill considers the black man to be the source ofBoston's social unrest.
(14) Invite the man who readsThe Grapes of Wrath todinner.I want to emphasize that the noun phrase, verb phrase andsentence level rules are only preferences for readings.
|n theworst case, as (15) shows, an initial sentence may contain au-ambiguous phrase which, while preferred as generic, can beused either way.
(15) The robot is replacing the car.7, The Explicit Backwards Co-reference Rule for DefnpDisambiguationUsing the concept of focus, rules governing theco-referential use of defnps in discourse can be stated.
Therules for defnp co'reference which follow depend Upon theability of the hearer to identify focus.
This process is acomplex one and will not be discussed here.
The reader isreferred to Sidner \[forthcoming\] for full details.
In brief, thefocus of a sentence depends upon predicate argumentrelations and in some cases, special syntactic forms, such ascfefts and pseudoclefts.In  the simplest formulation, the rules for defnpco-reference states: the discourse focus provides a referencepoint for the co-references of defnps.
As \[ will show below,the rule contains several subparts which must be statedseparately.
In this paper \] will refer to cases of a defnp usedanaphorically as explicit backwards co-referencing (EBC).
TheEBC rule states that a defnp with the same noun phrase headas the focus, and which appears in a sentence following thesentence with the focus, is co-referential to the focus.
Themore common forms of explicit backwards co-referencing arefound in D\] and D2 below:9OD1-1 I want to have a_ big partYi with lots of guests.2 Th__ee party!
ought to be on Saturday so everyonecan come.D2-1 I'm going to tell you about the elephantj.2 The elephantj is the largest of the junglemammals.3 Hej weighs over 3000 pounds.4 ~one point in itsj existence, the elephantj had toprotect itself from-~e lion,5 but now its: herds are so large, that most lionswon't even venture near.What the reader will notice about D2 is not only theco-referenciality of focus for the second and third uses of theelephant, but also the co-referenciality implies that these usesare generic.
Where defnps in isolation are often ambiguous onthe generic-specific classification, in discourse context, thisrarely occurs since the focus provides the class type for thedefnp.
As stated, the EBC rule makes a true prediction aboutu-ambiguous defnps which occur in sentences following thefocus: they are c?
)-referential with the focus, and hencedisambiguated as non-generic.
D3-2 below contains a defnpwhich is u-ambiguous in isolation, but in the discourse context,it refers to George's elephant, the reference of the focus.D3-1 I sent George an elephant last year for a birthdaypresent.2 Th.__ee lephant likes potatoes for breakfast.The EBC rule is inaccurate when applied to strictlygeneric defnps, and where it fails, the role of phrasal andsentential level processing in co-reference comprehension isindicated.
D4 is an indication of the problem.
D4-2 is genericin isolation.
Even in the context of D4, where the focus isMary's ferret, hearers interpret the underlined defnp asgeneric.D4-1 Mary got a ferret for Christmas last year.2 The ferret is a very rare animal.The context cues of discourse are not strong enough toreverse a strongly generic reading of a defnp.
In order forthis to be so, sentential level processing must have occurredwithout consideration of the demands of the context.
Since theEBC rule as stated predicts co-reference in cases like D4, itmust be revised: specific and u-ambiguous defnps whichcontain the same noun phrase head as the focus, and whichfollow the focus in the discourse, co-refer with the focus.A further refinement on the EBC rule is needed.Consider the fairy tale book in 175-2.
The EBC rules predicts itwill be co-referential with the focus of book in DS-1.
In fact,English speakers find D5-2 an odd sentence in the discoursebecause it is not clear what the fairy tale book has to do withthe rest of DS.DS-I I bought a book today.2 The fairy tale book is by the Brothers Grimm.3 It is really well illustrated.It seems that defnps which co-refer with the focus cannotcontain anymore information than is known abo~Jt the focus.Thus one could say following 175-1, "The book !
bought is afairy tale book by the Brothers Grimm" (since 175-\] states thatthe speaker bought the book), but one cannot say D5-2.
Whycan't a defnp that contains more information than the focusco-refer to the  focus?
Returning to the discussion offocus-shift earlier, a referring expression following the focusis either co-referential to the focus or introduces an entitywhich is the potential new focus of the discourse.
Thedifficulty with phrases like the fairy tale book is that onecannot tell if it is intended to co-refer, or because it issomewhat different from the focus, intended to be used as apotential new focus.
The EBC rule must be revised to state:specific and u-ambiguous defnps which contain the same nounphrase head as the focus, which follow the focus in thediscourse, and which do not contain more information than isknown about the focus co-refer with the focus.The EBC rule explains why a negative existentialcannot be referred to using a defnp.
A sample case, fromKarttunen \[1968\], is given in D6.
D6-2 is generally regardedas an unacceptable sentence following D6-1.
The sentence iscertainly grammatical, so the assumption by Karttunen is thatthe referential term the car is being used in someinappropriate manner.D6-1 \[ don't have a car.2 ~= The car is black.The EBC rule predicts that the car co-refers with the focus inD6-1.
But a car in that sentence does not have a referent(because the speaker has just said so).
Thus the use of thedefnp in D6-2 causes the hearer to expect a reference whenin fact there is no referential entity.A similar case, (16), also from Karttunen, does notinvolve negative existentials, but entities within modalcontexts:(16) = Mary expected a present from John although th._eepresent was expensive.
(17) Mary expected a present from John although th._.eepresent wasn't the thing that worried her.The defnp in (16) according to the EBC rule must co-refer withthe focus.
What is significant is that the Co-reference isacceptable, as (17) shows.
What is odd about the secondclause of (16) is the predication.
This paper cannot give anaccount of such semantics, but intuitively, it seems odd topredicate the property of being expensive to something oneexpects.
Thus as long as there is a co-referent entityspecified by the focus, a defnp may be used, but thepredication about the defnp must be semantically meaningful.Another form of explicit backwards co-re~erencingis slightly different than the previous examples.
|~: involvesthe use of lexical generalization of the focus.
Grosz \[~.977\]first categorized the relation of focus and defnps with a moregeneral noun in the noun phrase head.
In D7, t~e poor oldbeast is a lexical generalization of the dog, that is, its headnoun is a term which is a class generalization of the focus.
77.
This term comes from the observation of HaUiday andHasan \[1976\] that lexical cohesion includes the use ofreiteration of four types: same word; synonym, superordinate,and general word.91Determining the class generalization of the focus is possiblewhen the focus is represented in the way that is assumed inthis paper: as an association network with an is-a hierarchicalstructure.
Using that hierarchy, it is possible to determinewhether a phrase like beast is hierarchically related toSalamut.D7-I  Harold took hi_~s Salamut; to the vet yesterday.2 The poor old beast i was quite lame.One might expect that some constraint on the amountof information in  the lexical generalization of the focus isneeded.
This is the case, since the underlined defnp in D7-2'is unacceptable following D7-1 as a co-referent with the focus.D7-2' The beast who is old was quite lame.-2"  The mangy, snarling, unfriendly beast was quitelame.It appears from all the cases \[ can find that any post-nominalmodifiers on a noun which is a lexical generalization of thefocus force the defnp to be non-coreferential with the focus,while pre-nominal modifiers, no matter how complex, preserveco-referential ity.
It is unclear why pre-nominal modifiers andpost-nominal modifiers have these different behaviors.8.
Implicit Backwards Co-referenceMany definite noun phrases which occur in discourseare not cases of backwards co-reference to the focus.
Grosz\ [1977\]  suggested that the focus brings other items implicitlyinto focus as well, by means of association.
Such defnps arerelated to the focus in one of several ways.
Since the focus iswell specified, these relationships can be easily determined.The focus acts as an anchor point for finding references forsuch defnps.
In DS, the defnp the time refers to the time ofthe discourse focus, the meeting.
This defnp use | will callimplicit backwards co-reference.
Such cases are to bedistinguished from explicit backwards co-referencing becausethe defnp is co-referential with an entity that is closelyassociated with the focus rather than to the focus itself.
Thephenomenon of association between two noun phrases hasbeen cited by Norman and Rumelhart \[1975\].D8-1 The pa group wants to have a meeting.2 The time will be 3 p.m. on Tuesday.implicit backwards co-referencing is constrained bythe association network surrounding the focus.
Any entityclosely associated with the entity which represents the focuscan be mentioned using a simple defnp.
Thus in Dg~ sentenceswith acceptable defnps as well as ones with unacceptabledefnps are given.D9-1 i went to a new restaurant with Sam.2 The waittress was nasty.3 The food was great.4 The soup was salty, but the wine was good.5 ,~ The rug was ugly.Non-simple defnps have infinitely more variety because themodifiers can specify the relation of the defnp to the focus athand as in D9-6.
Non-simple defnps which do not suggestsome connection are less acceptable, but hearers, in relianceon the perspicuity maxim, may attempt some connection.
Thusif D9 included D9-7 below, some hearers might attempt toconnect the defnp with focus.D9-6 i like the band that plays there.-7 The elephant with the green tutu danced animpressive jig.Another use of focus is as an inference point forinferred co-references, inferred co-references, like themurderer in (8), presented here as DI0, are not mentionedexplicit ly in the previous discourse nor can they be consideredclosely associated to the focus on general principles.
Theiruse reflects an inference about the focus on the part of thespeaker.DIO-I  The heiress lived the life of a recluse.2 She died under mysterious circumstances, butthe murderer was never found.In D6, the murderer represents an inference that the heiressdeath was due to a specific type of circumstance, a murder.Such an inference is possible given a Fahlman \[1977\] type netwith two inference points like heiress and murderer (and theinformation associated to heiress from the context thus far);from the net, the relation of the murderer to the heiress canbe inferred.
Such an inference does not produce a real-worldent i ty to which the murderer refers.
Instead, the inferredrelation of murderer and heiress provides sufficientinformation to produce the entity if it exists in the database.When a denotation does not exist in the database, theinference between the murderer and the heiress sugests thatthe speaker is attributing of some individual that s/he is amurderer.A concrete example will illustrate my point.
Supposethe hearer knows that the heiress was killed by Jones.
Thenon hearing DI0, the hearer not only concludes that themurderer refers to the murderer of the heiress, but also basedon that conclusion, the hearer decides that Jones is denoted bythe referring expression: However, another hearer uponhearing DtO and not knowing what the first hearer knew, couldonly conclude that murdel"er is attributed of a person who isassumed to have murdered the heiress.
The referent is notknown to the second hearer, but if someone were to tellhim/her that Jones murdered the heiress, the hearer couldconclude who the murderer refers to.
in effect, the defnpused in this way points out the attributional use of expressionswhich Donnellen has observed.
The argument presented hereis not only about the nature of focus; it is a statement of whatinformation is sufficient to make up a description which candenote a unique entity.
Viewing inferred co-reference defnpsas attributions has an implication for a computational modelwhich disambiguates uch defnps.
This model must be able touse an expression without knowing its referent and be able tolink up the denotation to the referring expression if someknowledge makes that denotation available at a later point.implicit and inferred co-reference at first glanceappear to be one in the same thing.
The discourse below,from Karttunen \[1968\], will indicate just how the two differ.DI 1-1 \[ was driving on the freeway the other day.2 Suddenly the engine began to make a funnynoise.923 I stopped the car.4 When I opened the hood, I saw that the radiatorwas boiling over.With focus of freeway in DI 1-1, the relation of the engine canbe found since vehicles are driven on freeways and vehicleshave engines.
The association chain here suggests that theconnection between D I I - I  and the engine involves a fewinferences.
These inferences are part of a heater's generalknowledge and true of the worleJ.
They are part of theknowledge in the association network.
With D10, however, theinference about the murderer involves a supposition which isnot necessarily true, since dying under" mysteriouscircumstances does not necessarily imply murder.
Thedistinction between implicit and inferred co-reference can thusbe stated: imp!icit co-reference involves inferences which aretrue about the world, while inferred co-reference involves asupposition which the speaker has made which is notnecessarily true.Another kind of implicit focus-defnp relation exists inD12.
!
call this relation the set-element relation since theclown with a unicycle is an element of the set of clowns whichthe focus denotes.Dl2-1a I went downtown today,lb  and there were clowns performing in thesquare.2 The clown with a unicycle did this reallyfantastic stunt.As with inferred references, the focus does not make itpossible to identify a specific denotation with the referringexpression.
Instead the focus is the set of which the referentof that phrase is a member.
These cases are easier todistinguish than those of inferred reference because the headnoun is the singular of the noun phrase represented in thefocus.
Unlike defnps using the EBC rule, set-elementco-reference demands a modifier that distinguishes it from thefocus.
Without the modifier, there is no means of determiningwhich member of the set is being discussed.
Grosz \[1977\]says of cases like the set-element relation that an inference isneeded to establish additional properties of an object in focus.However, because the head noun phrase is the same as thefocus, while the modifier is different, the relation can beestablished without the need for inference.Another kind of focus relation, which I call computedreference, can be seen in DI3.
Here the last meeting does notrefer to the meeting mentioned in the previous sentence, butthat meeting can be used as a point for determining a las._.~tmeeting, if one is known in the database, else it is adescription of the entity required, as with inferred referencesand set-element references.
Several modifiers - first, last,next, second and the other ordinals - are used in this way.DI3-1 Aunt Het's Sewing Bee wants to have a meetingthis week.2 The meeting should beon Tuesday.3 The last meeting, which was at 5, was too late,so schedule this one earlier.From these examples, the nature of focus indiscourse can be re-emphasized.
It is the focus whichconnects sentences of the discourse.
In the process ofdetermining the focus relation between a defnp and the focus,the link in the discourse is created.
From these examples, onecan predict that there ought to be cases of defnps which bearnone of these relations to the focus and which result inunacceptable discourses.
This prediction is accurate as D12"shows.Dt2" - la  !
went downtown today,Ib and there were clowns performing in the square.2 ?
\] saw the chair.The difficulty with DI2' is that a chair is not associated withclowns, and the discourse does not suggest any suppositionsthat would link chairs and clowns inferentially.There are, however, cases of defnps which do notbear any relation to the focus and which are perfectlyacceptable in discourse.
Consider the chairman of the mathdepartment in D14 below.D14-1 George wants to have a semin.~r to discussrepresentation in frame-like languages.2 He wants to invite the chairman of the mathdepartment.The focus in D14 is the seminar of 014-1.
The mathdepartment chairman is not directly related to the seminar.However, the focus does provide an important piece ofinformation; it is the source of the ellided event to which thechairman is invited.
Hence D\]4 is different from D9-6 or DI2'where there is no link between the focus and the sentence inquestion.
What can be concluded is that the focus is not auseful reference point for the referent of the chairman of themath department.
The sentence is not odd because of focuslinks.
Thus something outside of the discourse context mustcontain the needed denotation.
Th is  conclusion points to thelimitation of th e focus: it captures only those referencerelations which are internal to the discourse.
In a sense, thefocus is a summary of the discourse context and what thehearer knows about it.How can the denotation of the chairman of the mathdepartment be found?
Since the denotation of the chairman ofthe math department lies outside the discourse context, a moreglobal context such as that of the speaker's situtation in timeand space must be used to determine a context of possiblereferents.
This context must be limited because there arepotential ly many math department chairmen in the speaker'sand heater's memories.
I do not intend to describe just whatsuch a context will look like, but I do want to indicate that itmay be "grown" from a search through the associative networkto other entities which are related to any of the objects in thediscourse, including the speaker and hearer.
The associationnet includes not only abstract representations of generalclasses of real world entities, it also contains representationsof real world objects.
The associations between real worldobjects can be gathered by a search method which collectsassociations close to the focus and then extends for otherassociations until one is found that matches the defnp inquestion.
Of course, it is possible that no entity will be found:such a circumstance is yet another example o f  the hearerknowing that a defnp refers without being able to tell who the93speaker had intended as the reference.
The implications ofextra-discourse contexts for computational models is clear:models are needed of what the speaker assumes his/herhearer knows about, so that the speaker does not producereferring expressions which the hearer cannot disambiguate,and models are needed of what the hearer assumes thespeaker has beliefs about so that the hearer can decide whatto do with referring expressions which s/he cannotdisambiguate.Earlier in this paper \] mentioned the use of suchdefnps as the sun, the moon, and the Earth.
These defnpshave default referents in initial sentences of a discourse.Inside a discourse, they can act in one of two ways: related tothe focus as either a backwards co-reference, implicitco-reference,  inferred reference, set-element reference orcomputed reference; or they may act as references to entitiesoutside the context.
The EBC rule predicts that such defnpswill be taken as co-referring when the focus has the samedefnp head.
Thus a defnp like the sun or the moon will referto its default value only if the focus does not predict areferent based on,one of the five co-reference relationsdiscussed here.
These kinds of defnps are especiallynoteworthy because they are a clear example of a defnp thatcan be used in either role.The four related co-reference relations specify waysin which a defnp can be predicted as co-reference to an entityassociated with the focus.
Other defnps either refer toobjects outside the discourse context or the defnp fails torefer as intended by the speaker.
The former case is markedby the presence of discourse links elsewhere in the sentenceto the focus or by the use of default reference.
In thosecases where the reference as intended fails, the hearer mayattempt to create a connection to the focus, as was suggestedwith DIO-7, and thereby maintain the perspicuity contract.Alternatively, the hearer may fail to understand the referent.Focus can be used for disambiguation of genericdefnps in a manner similar to the cases presented above.
Asdiscussed earlier, the EBC rule predicts that a defnp which isu-ambiguous will be generic or not based on the focus, andthat a strictly generic defnp is independent of the focus.
Thestrictly generic defnp case, as shown in DIS, presents onemeans of shifting' focus in a discourse with defnps.D15-1 I got a new ASR 33 this week.2 The ASR 33 is an old but reliable output device.If D15-3 were "It was available long before the newer,electronic consoles," the focus would have shifted from theASR33 which the speaker had gotten to the generic entity ofASR33 teletypes.The strictly generic defnp used after a non-genericfocus is just one case of implicit backwards co-reference usingassociations.
Other associations occur as well.
However,implicitly related defnps are not distinguishable as genericunless a full modifying noun phrase is attached, as D16 shows.The time as a simple defnp can be used only as an implicitco-reference to the focus of party.
Only the complex nounphrase has the syntactic and semantic distinctions whichreflect the generic usage.
The simple defnp used implicitlytakes its generic/specific lassification from the focus.DI6-1 I want to have a party.la The time of a party is hard to decide on.2b The time is hard to decide on.Set-element implicit co-reference exists for genericfoci as well as specific foci.
A significant difference is that thefoci for the generic case can be a singular defnp, or they canbe a plural noun phrase with either a definite article or noarticle.
The set membership is indicated by a distinguishingmodifier, just as with specific set-element implicitco-reference.
An example of generic set-elementco-reference is given below with both a singular defnp focusand a plural unspecified focus.D \ ]7 - !
The Austrailian aborigine represents an almostextinct hunter-scavenger social group.l '  Austrailian aborigines represent an almostextinct hunter-scavenger social group.2 The aborigine in the southern sections ofAustrailia sometimes gathers food, but the  otheraborigines do not.Inferred generic co-references also occur.
In D18,the owner  of  a motorcycle is a generic defnp:D18-I Alfonso was in an accident with a motorcycle lastweek.2 I think the owner of a motorcycle ought to berequired to take driving lessons.The owner  of  a motorcycle is generically related to the firstsentence by an inference of what happened to the agent.
Thesame kind of machinery that is used for specific inferredco-references can be used for making these inferences as well.How can generic inferred co-references be distinguished fromspecific inferred co-reference?
A strictly generic defnp as inD18-2 remains generic.
Those defnps which are u-ambiguOusat the sentential level, as with DlO-2, can be disambiguated asspecific because of the relation to the focus.The use of a semantic network with a focus andinference mechanism results in a computational theory ofco-reference which makes use of representation propertiessuch as prototype of entities, hierarchical connections andassociative links between entities in the representation.
Theuse of focus for co-reference rules such as the EBC rules,implicit backwords co-reference rules and inferredco-reference relies on this net representation.
An inferencemechanism is necessary both to verify co-referencepredictions and to test suppositions used in inferentialco-reference.
With the net and a focus, predictions aboutacceptable co-reference for noun phrases has been shown andverified with linguistic evidence.
Psychological predictions,such as implicit co-reference requiring more time than explicitco-reference, cana lso  be tested although the relatedpsychological literature has not been discussed in this paper.The limits of focus as a co-reference mechanism suggest thatfocus is central for co-reference of noun phrases related toprevious discourse.
For noun phrases that refer outside thediscourse, focus may also be used to generate a context ofentities from which a co-referent may be chosen.
Furtherresearch can extend the focus mechanism to rules involving94other types of noun phrases and the personal pronounanaphors.9.
AcknowledgementsThis report describes research done at the ArtificialIntelligence Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology.
Support for the laboratory's artificial intelligenceresearch is provided in part by the Advanced ResearchProjects Agency of the Department of Defense under theOffice of Naval Research under Contract NumberNO0014-75-C-0643.I0.
ReferencesAustin,J.L.
\[1962\] How to Do Things With Words, OxfordUniversity Press.Bullwinkle, C. \[1977\] Levels of Compexity in Discourse forAnaphora Disambiguation and Speech Act /nterpretation,Proceedings of the Fifth International Joint Conference inArtificial Intelligence, August 1977; also M.I.T.A.I.
LabMemo 413.Charniak, E. \[1972\] Toward a Model Of Children's StoryComprehension, M.I.T.A.I.
Lab TR-266.Cohen, Philip R. \[1978\] On Knowing What to Say: PlanningSpeech Acts, University of Toronto Department ofComputer Science, T.R.
No.
\] 1.8.Donnellan, Keith S. \[1977\] Reference and Definite Descriptionsin Naming, Necessity, and Natural Kinds, S.P.
Schwartz (ed.
),Cornell University Press, ithaca.Fahlman, Scott E. \[1977\] A System for Representing and UsingReal-World Knowledge, M.I.T.A.I.
Laboratory AI-TR-450,December.Grosz, Barbara \[1977\] The Representation and Use of Focus inDialogue Understanding.
Stanford Research InstituteTechnical Note 151, Menlo Park, CaliforniaHalliday, M.A.
and ~uqaiya Hasan \[1976\] Cohesion in EnglishLondon, Longman press.Karttunen, Lauri \[1968\] What Makes Definite Noun PhrasesDefinite?
Paper p-3871, The" RAND corporation, SantaMoncia, California.Kripke, Saul A.
\[1972\] Naming and Necessity.
inLSemantics ofNatural Language, Davidson and Harman le-'~s.
)~eid'~Publishing Co., Boston.Norman, Donald A. and David E. Rumelhart \[1975\] Explorationsin Cognition W.H.
Freeman, San Francisco.Rieger, Charles J.
\[\]974\] Conceptual Memory: A Theory andComputer Program for Processing the Meaning Content ofNatural Language Utterances.
Stanford Artificial IntelligenceLab Memo AIM-233.Russell, Bertrand \[1905\] On Denoting, reprinted in Logic an.__ddKnowledge~ R.W.
March (ed.
), Allen and Unwin, London,1956.Searle, J.R. \[1969\] Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philoshpy ofLanguage, Cambridge University Press.Sidner, C. \[forthcoming\] A Computational Model ofCo-reference Comprehensio'n i  English.
Ph.D. dissertation,M.I.T.Ninograd, Terry \[1971\] Procedures as a Representation forData in a Computer Program for Understanding NaturMLanguage.
M.I.T.
dissertation.95
