WITH A SPOON IN HAND THIS MUST BE THE EATING FRAMEEugene CharniakDepartment of Computer ScienceYale UniversityABSTRACTA language comprehension program using"frames", "scripts", etc.
must be able to decidewhich frames are appropriate to the text.
Oftenthere will be explicit indication ("Fred wasplaying tennis" suggests the TENNIS frame) but itis not always so easy.
("The woman waved while theman on the stage sawed her in half" suggestsMAGICIAN but how?)
This paper will examine how aprogram might go about determining the appropriateframe in such cases.
At a sufficiently vaguelevel the model presented here will resemble thatof Minsky (1975) in it's assumption that oneusually has available one or more context frames.Hence one only needs worry if information comes inwhich does not fit them.
As opposed to Minskyhowever the suggestions for new context frameswill not come from the old onesi but rather fromthe conflicting information.
The problem thembecomes how potential frames are indexed under theinformation which "suggests" them.1 INTRODUCTIONUnderstanding every day discourse requiresmaking inferences from a very large base of commonsense knowledge.
To avoid death by combinatorialexplosion our computer must be able to access theknowledge it needs without irrelevant knowledgegetting in its way.
A plausible constraint on theknowledge we might use at a given point in a storyor conversation (I shall henceforth simply assumewe are dealing with a story) is to restrictconsideration to that portion of our knowledgewhich is "about" things which have been mentionedin the discourse.
So if we have a story whichmentions trains and train stations, we will notuse our knowledge of, say.
circuses.
Thisrequires, of course, that given a topic, such astrains, or eating, we must be able to access itsknowledge without going through everything weknow.
Hence we are lead in a natural way tosomething approaching a notion of "frame" (Minsky1975): a collection of knowledge about a singlestereotyped situation.In the above discussion however I have made arather important slight of hand.
Given a story weonly want to consider those frames "about" thingsin the story.
How is it that we decide whichframes qualify?
I was able to gloss over thisbecause in most situations the problem, at leastat a surface level, does not appear all thatdifficult.
If the story is about trains, it willsurely mention trains.
So we see the word"train", and we assume that trains are relevant.What could be easier.Unfortunately, this ease is deceptive for thestory may mention many topics of which only a feware truely important to the story.
For example:The lawyer took a cab to the restaurant nearthe university.Here we have "lawyer", "cab", "restaurant" and"university" all of which are calling for ourattention.
Somehow on the basis of later lines wemust weed out those which our only incidental.But a more immediate difficulty are thosesituations where a story deals with a well definedtopic, yet never explicitly mentions it.
Soconsider :The woman waved as the man on the stage sawedher in half.Here we have no difficulty in guessing that thisis a magic trick, although nothing of the sort hasbeen mentioned.
We are able to take "low level"facts concerning sawing, stages, ete and put themtogether in a higher level "magician" hypothesis.As such, the phenomena illustrated here isessentlaly bottom up.Of course, any time we try to inferrelatively global properties from more localevidence we may make mistakes.
That this createsproblems in frame determination is shown by thenice example of Collins et.
al.
(fortheomming).
(To get the full import of the example, trypausing briefly after each sentence.
)He plunked down $5 at the window.
She triedto give him $2.50 but he refused to take it.So when they got inside she bought him a largebag of popcorn.The first line is uniformly interpreted as abuying act (most even going further and assamingsomething like a bet at a racetrack).
The secondline is then seen as a return of change, but therefusal is problematic.
The third line resolvesall of this by suggesting a date at the movies - aconsiderable revision of the initial hypothesis.To sumarize the last few paragraphs, theproblem of frame determination in languagecomprehension involves three sub-problems.I) Stories will typically elude to many higherframes, any of which might serve as thecontext for the incoming lines.
How do wechoose between them?2) The words used in a story may not directlyindicate the proper higher frame.
How do wedo the bottom up processing to find it?3) If we are lead astray in the course of (2),how do we correct ourselves on the basis offurther evidence.In the paper which follows I will be primarilyconcentrate on (2) with (3) being mentionedoccasionally.
In essence my position on (I) isthat it will not be too much of a problem,provided that the cost of setting up a contextlike "restaurant" is small.
If it is never usedthen as the story goes on it will receeded intothe background.
How this "receeding" takes placeI shall not say, since for one thing it is aproblem in many areas, and for another, I don'tkno w.187Concerning (2) and (3); we will be lead to aposition similar to that of Minsky (1975) andCollins et.
al (forthcomming) in that a framewill be selected on the basis of local evidence,and corrections will be made if it provesnecessary.
We will see however, that there arestill a lot of problems with this position whichdo not at first glance meet the eye.2 THE CLUE INTERSECTION METHODRather than immediately presenting my scheme,let me start by showing the problems with analternative possibility, which I will call the"clue intersection" method.
This alternative isby no means a straw man as one researcher has infact explicitly suggested it (Fahiman 1977) and Ifor one find it a very natural way of thinkingabout the problem.The idea behind this method is that we aregiven certain clues in the story about the natureof the correct frame, and to find the frame wesimply intersect the possible frames associatedwith each clue.
To see how this might work let ustake a close look at the following example:As Jack walked down the aisle he put a can oftunafish in his basket.The clues here are things like "aisle", "tLmafish"etc.
Of course, I do not mean to say that it isthe English words which are the clues, but ratherthe concepts which underlie the words.
I willassume that we go from one to the other via anindependent parsing algorithm.
(However thisassumes that there is no vicious interactionbetween frame determination and disambignation.Given that disambiguation depends on prior framedetermination (see (Hayes 1977) for numerousexamples) this may be incorrect.)
So the input tothe frame determiner will be something like:ST-I (WALK JACK-I AISLE-I)ST-2 (PERSON JACK-I)ST-3 (EQUAL (NAME JACK-I) "JACK")ST-4 (EQUAL (SEX JACK-I) MALE)ST-5 (AISLE AISLE-I)ST-6 (PUT JACK-1 TUNA-FISH-CAN-I BASKET-I)ST-7 (BASKET BASKET-I)The details of the representation do not figure inthe paper, and those which do are fairlyuncontroversial.
An exception here is the use ofspecific predicates like BASKET or AISLE.
We willreturn to this point in the conclusion.Given this representation we can imagine onemethod of finding the appropriate frame.
Ourclues are the various predicates in the input,such as as AISLE, BASKET; etc.
Index under eachof them will be pointers to those places where itcomes up.
Under AISLE we might find CHURCH,THEATER, and SUPERMARKET, while BASKET will haveLITTLE -RED-R IDIN G-HOOD ~ , and SUPERMARKET.
Thepoint is that none of these clues will beunambiguous, but when we take the intersection theonly thing which will be left is SUPERMARKET.There are, however, problems with this viewof things.
For one thing it ignores what I willcall the "clue selection" problem.
Put in theplainest fashion the difficultly here is decidingexactly what clues we will hand over to the clueresolution component, and in what order.
So inthe last example I selected some of the content ofthe sentence to hand over to the clue resolver;in particular AISLE, and BASKET.
This seemedreasonable given that they do tend to suggest"supermarket", as desired.
But there is moreinformation in the sentence.
It was Jack who didall of this.
Why not intersect what we know aboutJack with all of the rest, or WALK?
Or again,suppose something ever so slightly odd happens,such as the basket hitting a screwdriver which ison the floor.
SCREWDRIVER will have variousthings indexed under it, but more likely than notthe intersection with the rest of the itemsmentioned above will give us the null set.
Forthat matter, is there any reason to only intersectthings in the same sentence?
The answer here isclearly no, since there are many examples whichrequire just the opposite.Jack was walking down an aisle.
He waspushing his basket.But if we do not stop a sentence houndries wheredo we stop?
It is ridiculous to go through theentire story collecting clues and then do a grandintersection at the end.A reasonably natural solution to the clueselection problem would start with the observationthat usually we already have a general frame.When new clues come in we see if they arecompatible with what we already believe.
If so,fine.
If not ,  we see if the clue suggests adifferent context frame.
If not (a s with, say,WALK which occures so often as to be unsuggestive)then nothing more need be done.
If there arenewly suggested context frames they should beinvestigated.
This will be done for everypredicate.
Now the clue intersection method iscompatible with this idea, but in its broadoutline we are moving closer to what I have beencharacterizing as the Minsky proposal.Furthermore, there are some problems with theclue intersection method which go beyond the meresuggestive.
Consider the following example:Jack took a can of tunafish from the shelf.Then he turned on a light.After the first line the intersection methodshould leave us undecided between KITCHEN andSUPERMARKET.
The next line should resolve theissue, but how is it that it does so?
It musthave something to do with the fact that normally ashopper at a store would not be the person to turnlights on or off, while it would be perfectlynormal for Jack to do it in what presumably is hisown kitchen.
But this sort of reasoning is noteasily modeled by clue intersection because itwould seem to depend on making inferences whichare themselves dependent on having the contextframes available.
That is to say, before we canrule out SUPERMARKET, we need some piece ofinformation from the SUPERMARKET frame which willenable us to say that Jack should not be turning188on a light, given that he is cast in the role ofSHOPPER in that frame.Interestingly enough, Fahlman (who I earliernoted is a proponent of the clue intersectionmethod) had a major role in the evolution of theMinsky proposal which I advocate.
As such itbehoves us to consider why he then rejected theidea in (Fahlman 1977).
His primary reason is hisobservation that frequently in vision one does nothave any single clue which could serve as thebasis for the first guess at the appropriateframe.
Rather it would seem that one has amultitute of very vague features, each one ofwhich could belong to a wide variety of objects orscenes.
To select one of them for a first guesswould be quite arbitrary and would involve one inan incredible amount of backtrack.
It would seemmuch more plausible to simply do an intersectionon the clues and in this way weed out the obviousimplausibilites.While this analysis of the situation invision is quite plausibile, I estimate that highlevel vision is still in a sufficientlyrudimentary state that these conclusions need notbe taken as anything near the final word.Furthermore, even if it were proved that visiondoes need an intersection type process, I caneasily believe that the process which goes on invision is not the same as that which goes on inlanguage.
For one thing in vision there is anatural cut-off for clue selection - the singlescene.
For another~ within the scene there is anatural metric on the likelyness of two featuresbelonging to the same frame - distance.
Weitheror not these in fact work in vision, they dosuggest why someone primarily worried about thevision problem would not see clue selection as theproblem it appears to be in language.3 DIFFERENT KINDS OF INDICESAs I have already said, the scheme I believecan surmount the difficulities presented in thelast section is a variant on one proposed byMinsky, and elaborated by Fahlman (1974) andKuipers (1975).
The basic idea is that one majorfeature or clue is used to select an initialframe.
Other facts are then interpreted in lightof this frame.
If they fit, fine.
If not thenanother frame must be found which either~omplements or replaces the original frame.
Inthe previous propolsals the original framecontained information about alternate frames to betried in case of certain types ofincompatabilities.
This may or may not work invision (which was the primary concern of thosementioned earlier) however I shall drop this partof the theory.
In discourse there are simply toomany ways a frame can be inappropriate to makethis feasible.
For example, it stretchescredibility to believe that SUPERMARKET wouldsuggest looking at KITCHEN in the case the shopperturns on the lights.So let us consider a very simple example.Jack walked over to the phone.
He had to talkto Bill.It seems reasonable to ass~e that we guess evenbefore the second sentence that Jack will make acall.
To anticipate this we must have TELEPHONINGindexed under TELEPHONE.
When we see the firstline we first try to integrate it into what wealready know.
Since there will be nothing thereto integrate it into, we try to constructsomething.
To do this we look to see what we haveindexed under TELEPHONE, find TELEPHONING, and trythat out.
Indeed it will work quite well, sinceone of the things under TELEPHONING is that theAGENT must be in the proximity of the phone, andJack just accomplished that.
Hence we are able tointegrate (AT JACK-1 TELEPHONE-I ) into theTELEPHONING frame, and everything is fine.Nothing is ever really this simple however,and even in this example, which has been selectedfor its comparative simplicity, there arecomplications.
I suspect most people have assumedin the course of this example that Jack is in aroom, and perhaps have even gone so far as toassume he is at home.
Nothing in the story saysso of course, and if the next line went on to saythat Jack put a dime into the phone we wouldquickly revise our theory.To account for our tendency to place Jack ina room, we must have a second index underTELEPHONE which points to places where phones aretypically found.
(An possible alternative is tohave this stated under TELEPHONING, but this wouldmake it difficult to use the information in caseswhere no call is actually being made, soTELEPHONING, even if hypothesized, would not stayaround long.)
So we will hypothesize two kinds ofindices, an ACTION index and a LOCATION index.This distinction should mirror the intuitivedifference between placing and object in a typicallocal and placing an action in a typical sequence.Other distinctions of this sort exist and may welllead to the introduction of other such indextypes: locating objects and actions in time forexample.
However I would anticipate that thetotal number is small (under I0, say).To illustrate how these index types mighthook up to TELEPHONE I will use a slightlyextended version of the frame representationintroduced in (Charniak 1977) and (Charniakforthcomming).
From the point of view of thispaper nothing is dependent on this choice.
It issimply to give us a sepecific notation with whichto work.189(TELEPHONE (OBJECT) ;The frame describes an OBJECT;(and not, say, an event).VARS:(THING) ;I only introduce one variable... ;THING which is bound to the;token in the story repre-;senting the phoneLOCATION:((ROOM (HOME-PHONE .
THING))(PUBLIC-LOC (PAY-PHONE .
THING)));If we instantiate the ROOM frame then the;HOME-PHONE variable in it should be bound;to the token which is bound to THING.
;Similarly for PUBLIC-LOC and PAY-PHONE.ACTION: ((TELEPHONING (PHONE .
THING)))...) ;Other portions of the frame would;describe its appearance, etc.We will not be able to integrate the firstline of our story into any other frame, so we willhypothesize the TELEPHONING frame and either theroom frame or the public place frame.
Given mysubject data on what people assume, the room frameis placed, and hence tried, first.
This willcause the creation of two new statements whichserve to specify the frames now active, and theirbindings(TELEPHONING (PHONE .
TELEPHONE-I))(ROOM (ROOM .
ROOM-I)(HOME'PHONE .
T#LEPHONE-I ) )The syntax here is the name of the frame followedby dotted pairs (VARIABLE .
BINDING).
Earlier Iused a place notation for simplicity, e.g.,(TELEPHONE TELEPHONE-I )In fact this would be converted internally to thedotted pair format :(TELEPHONE (THING .
TELEPHONE-I))I might note that my variables are what Minsky(1975) calles "slots".
They are also equivalent(to a first approximation) to KRL slots such asHOME-PHONE in:\[ROOM-I (UNIT)<SELF (a ROOM withHOME-PHONE = TELEPHONE-I)>\]So we are hypothesizing I) an instance oftelephoning, where the only thing we know about itis the telephone involved, and 2) a room (ROOM-I)which at the moment is only furnished with atelephone.
Note that this assumes that in ourroom frame we have an explicit slot for atelephone.
This is equivalent to assuming thatrooms typically have phones in them.We can now integrate the fact that Jack is atthe phone into the telephoning frame, ass~ningthat this state is explicitly mentioned there(i.e.
we know that as part of telephoning theAGENT must be AT the TELEPHONE).
With this addedour TELEPHONING statement will now be:(TELEPHONING (AGENT .
JACK-I)(TELEPHONE .
TELEPHONE-l))When the second line comes in we must see how thisfits into the TELEPHONING frame, but this is aproblem of integration.
The frame determinationproblem is over for this example.4 CONSTRAINTS ON THE HYPOTHESIS OF NEW FRAMESEarly on we noted that it was only necessaryto worry about a new frame if we receivedinformation which did not fit in the old ones.Then when we introduced the two kinds of indecieswe noted that we wanted to place events in asequence of events, and objects in their typicallocal.
This immediately suggests that when we getan unintegratable action we use the ACTION indexon the predicate, while for objects we would usethe LOCATION index.
However, this is not generalenough in at least two ways.For one thing, often we will have anon-integratable action where it is not the actionframe, but rather the objects involved in theaction which suggest the appropriate frame.
Ourexample of someone going over to a phone is a casein point.
Here GO tells us nothing, but TELEPHONEis quite suggestive.
To handle this the searchfor ACTION indices must include those which are onOBJECT frames describing the tokens involved inthe action.
So since Jack is going to somethingwhich is a telephone, we look on the ACTION indexof TELEPHONE.We must also extend our analysis to handlestates.
If we are told that Jack is in arestaurant we must activate RESTAURANTING.
In ourcurrent analysis (RESTAURANT (THING .RESTAURANT-l)) will not do this since it is anOBJECT frame and hence will on lybe  looking forLOCATIONs in which the restaurant will fit.
Hencein this case the IN frame must act like the GOframe in looking for ACTION indeeies in which itmight fit.
More generally, any state which istypically modified by an action should cause us tolook for ACTION indicies.
So IN or STICKY-ONwould do so, SOLID or AGE would not.
(But if inthe case at hand we are told that something didchange the SOLID status then we would treat itlike an action, as in "In the morning the water inthe pond wes solid".Up to this point then the frame selectionprocess looks like this:I) When a statement comes in try to integrateit into the frames which are already active.In general this can require inference and amajor open problem is how much inference oneperforms before giving up.
If theintegration is successful, then go on to thenext statement.2) If the statement is a description of anobject (i.e.
an OBJECT frame) then use theLOCATION index on the frame to find a framewhich incorporates the statement.
Keeptrack of yet untried suggested LOCATIONframes.3) If the statement is an action or changablestate, then look for an ACTION frame intowhich the action (or state) can beintegrated.
First look on the frame for the1904)action (or state) and then on the objectframes describing the arguments of theaction (or state).
Again, keep track of anyremaining ones.There must be a complicated process by whichwe test frames for consistancy with what weknow about the story already.
If it is notconsistant we must involve an even morecomplicated process of deciding which ismore believable, previous hypothesis aboutthe story, or the current frame.
I havenothing to say on this aspect of theproblem.There is however, one type of example whichraises some doubts about the above algorithm.These mention some object with associated ACTIONframes, but only in connection with states whichdo not demand an ACTION frame for theirintegration.
For example:The car was green.
Jack had to be home bythree.In this example the above algorithm will notconsider DRIVING because GREEN will not demandthat we look at the action index assoicated withits arguments (the car), (Even if it did nothingwould happen because the fact that the car isgreen would not integrate into DRIVING.)
However,much to my surprise, when I gave this example topeople they did not get the DRIVING frame either.However, with a modified example they do.The steering wheel was green.
Jack had to behome by three.This is most mysterious.
One suggestion (Lehnertpersonal communication) is that to "see" thesteering wheel the "viewer" must be in the car,which inturn suggests driving (since IN woulddemand action integration).
This may indeed becorrect; but we must then explain why in the firstexample the fact that the viewer must be NEAR thecar does not cause the same thing.
In any casehowever, these examples are sufficiently odd thatit seems inadvisable to mold a theory around them.5 MORE COMPLEX INDICESThere is one way in which the telephoneexample makes the problem look simpler than it is.In the case of TELEPHONE it seems reasonable tohave a direct l ink between the object TELEPHONEand the context frame TELEPHONING.
In other casesthis is not so clear.
For example, we earlierconsider the example:The woman waved as the man on the stage sawedher in half.Here it would seem that the notion of sawing aperson in half is the crutial concept which leadsus to magic, although the fact that the woman doesnot seem concerned, and the entire thing ishappening on a stage certainly help re-enforcethis idea.
But presulably the output of ourparser will simply state that we have here anincident of SAWING.
Does this mean that we haveunder SAWING a pointer to MAGIC-PERFORMANCE?
Atfirst glance this seems odd" at best.
Some otherexamples where the same problem arise are:The ground shook.
(EARTHQUAKE) (Example due to J. DeJong)There were tin cans and streamers tied to thecar.
(WEDDING)There were pieces of the fusilage scatteredon the ground.
(AIRPLANE ACCIDENT)In the final analysis the real problem here is oneof efficiency.
If, for example we attachEARTHQUAKE to EARTH, then we will be looking at itin many circumstances when it is not applicable.
(The alternative of attaching it to SHAKE islittle better, and possibly worse since it wouldnot handle "Jack felt the earth MOVE beneath him"- assuming the average person gets EARTHQUAKE outof this also.
)One way to cut down the number of falsesuggestions is to complicate the indices we haveon each frame.
So far they have simply been listsof possibilities.
Suppose we make themdiscrimination nets.
So, under SAWING we wouldhave various tests.
On one branch would appearMAGIC-PERFORMANCE, but we would only get to itafter many tests, one of which would see if thething sawed was a person.
In much the same waythe discrimination net for EARTH could enquireabout the action or state which caused us toaccess it.
If i t  were a MOVE with the EARTH asthe thing moved then EARTHQUAKE.Note however that if there were few enoughthings attached to SAWING our net would not savesignificant time.
Even if we were to access theMAGIC-PERFORMANCE frame the first thing we woulddo is check that the thing proposed for theSAWED-PERSON variable was indeed a person, Thenet only saves time when a single test in the netrules out a number of frames.
At the present timeI have not thought of enough frames associatedwith SAWING to make this worth while.
But as Isuspect this is primarily do to lack of work on mypart, I will assume that discrimination nets willbe required.If we al low a discrimination net to askarbitrary questions there will be the problem thatit may ask questions which are not yet answered inthe story.
However a reasonable restriction whichwould prevent this would go as follows: Supposestatement A causes us to look at frames on anindex of B.
The discrimination net may onlyenquire about the predicate of A (EARTH looks tosee if A was a MOVE), and what object framesdescribe the arguments of A or B (SAW looks to seeif the thing sawed was a PERSON).6 OTHER USES OF FRAME DETERMINATIONEarlier I noted that integrating a statementinto a frame requires inference.
Here I wouldlike to point out that a modification of the aboveideas would be helpful  in this process as well.Consider the following:191Jack went to a restaurant.
The menu was inChinese.
"What will I do now", thought Jack.Our rules here will get us to RESTAURANTING afterthe first line.
But if we are to understand thesignificance of the last line we must realize theimport of line two; Jack can't read the menu.
Itwould seem unlikely that RESTAURANTING would askabout the language of the menu; hence sentence twocannot be immediately integrated intoRESTAURANTING.
More reasonable would be to knowthat if something is in a foreign language itcannot be read, and one normally reads the menu soone can order.
Only the second of these canplausibly be included in RESTAURANTING.Given our algorithm the following will occur.The second line will become something like(IN-LANGUAGE MENU-I CHINESE).
Since the statementis not integrated we look to see if there is anACTION pointer on IN-LANGUAGE.
Indeed there is,and it will be to the following rule:(READ (MOTIVATIONAL-ACTIVITY)VARS : ...EVENT:(AND(SEE READER READING-MATERIAL)(IN-LANGUAGE READING-MATERIAL LANGUAGE )(KNOW READER LANGUAGE) )ENABLES(KNOW-CONTENTS READER READING-MATERIAL) )Early on I commented that the onlycontroversial aspect of my representation was theuse of very specific predicates (BASKET, AISLE,TELEPHONE, etc) rather than a break down into moreprimitive concepts.
We might, for example; defineAISEL as a path which is bounded on each side bythings which are considered pieces of furniture(e.g., shelves or chairs).
The problem with usinga primitive representation here is that while itis somewhat plausible having SUPERMARKET andCHURCH indexd under AISLE, indexing them underPATH or some other component of the primitivedefinition is much less plausible.
However ~ wecan circumvent this problem by the use ofdiscrimination nets, just as we did to getEARTHQUAKE from MOVE and EARTH.
But, it should benoted that by using this method we are eliminatingone of the benefits of a primitive analysis - wecan no longer assume that we can get ourinformation in a piecemeal fashion and come outwith the same analysis.
In particular we must get"aisle", or else we must get al of its componentsat the same time.
If we do not then thediscrimination net will fail to notice that we donot have any old path, we have an AISLE.
Giventhis restriction the primitive and non primitiveanalyses come out pretty much the same.
Aprimitive decomposition just becomes a long namefor a higher level concept.
Or to turn thisaround, the use of high level discriptions is notso controversial after all - it is simply a shortname for a primitive decomposition.In effect we are saying here that the typicalsignficance of something being in a certainlanguage is whether a person can read it or not.This will cause us to activatve the READ frame.Initially there is little else we can do since atthis point the we do not even know who is tryingto read.
However when we try to integrate READ wewill be successful, and we will have further boundREADER to JACK-1.
At this point (and this is themodification required) we should return to READand note that we can assume he does not knowChineese and hence will not be able to read themenu.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI have benefited from conversations with J.Carbonelle, J. DeJong W. Lehnert, D. McDermott,and R. Wilensky, all of whom have been thinkingabout these problems for a long time.
Many oftheir ideas have gone into this paper.
Thisresearch was done at the Yale A.I.
Project whichis funded in part by the Advanced ResearchProjects Agency of the Department of Defense andmonitored under the Office of Naval Research undercontract N00014-75-C-I 1 II.7 CONCLUSIONThere is, of course, much I have not covered.The most glaring ommision is the lack of anydiscussion of how one detects a discrepencybetween a suggested frame and what we already knowof the story.
The problem is that a frame cannotafford to mention everything which is incomparablewith it - there is simply too much.
And the sameis true for everything which is comparable.Furthermore, what would be enough to switch to anew frame under some circumstances would not besufficient at other times.
So "Jack walked downthe isle and picked up a can of tunafish" takes usfrom CHURCH to SUPERMARKET.
But if we added "froma pew" things are different.
These are majorproblems and aside from (McDermott 72) and(Collins et.
al.
forthcomming) they have hardlybeen confronted, much less solved.REFERENCESCharniak, E., A framed PAINTING: on therepresentation of a common sense knowledgefragment.
Journal of Cognitive Science, I,4, August 1977.Charniak, E., On the use of framed knowledge inlanguage comprehension, forthcomming.Collins, A, Brown, J. S., and Larkin, K. M.,Inference in text understanding, in: R. J.Spiro, B. C. Bruce, and W. F.
Brewer(Eds.)
Theoretical issues in readingcomprehension.
Hillsdale, N. J., LawrenceErlba~m Associates, forthcomming.Fahlman; S. E,, A hypothesis-frame system forrecognition problems, Working Paper 57,M.I.T.
Artificial Intelligence Lab, 1974.Fahlman, S. E., A system for representing andusing real-world knowledge.
UnpublishedPh.D.
thesis, M.I.T., September 1977.Hayes, P. J., Some association-based techniquesfor lexical disambiguation by machine.192TR25, University of Rochester ComputerScience Department, June 1977.Kuipers, B., A frame for frames, In D. Bobrow andA.
Collins (Eds.)
Representation andunderstandlng, New York, Academic Press,1975McDermott, D., Assimilation of new information bya natural language understanding system, TR291, M.I.T Artificial Intelligence Lab,1972.Minsky, M., A framework for representingknowledge.
In P.H.
Winston (Ed.
), Thepsychology of compher vision, New York,McGraw-Hill, 1975, pp.
211-277.193
