A Heur ist icfor ParadigmsJoseph E. Gr imesCornel l  Un ivers i ty  andSummer Inst i tute of L inguist icsThis paper helps c lar i fy  one of thepervas ive problems of l inguist ic  analysis:the interact ion between the paradigmat icand syntagmat ic  d imens ions  of language.Paradigms are sets of a l ternat ives:  thespeaker must dec ide on one member of theset to use, and the hearer must f igure outwhich he used.
In a syntagm orconstruct ion,  an element chosen out of oneparadigm is put together with e lementschosen out of others.
Thus far allgrammars  of all languages agree.The problem comes when we put thegrammar together.
The choices avai lab lein one paradigm turn out often to bel imited by those made in some otherparadigm that is part of the sameconstruct ion.
Grammar is never as s impleas a Cartes ian product  of paradigms.Var ious forms of grammar have var iousmeans, none of them quite sat is fy ing,  toexpress these l imitat ions.
A common one isfootnotes about i r regular i t ies;  ad hocfeatures to tr igger or block special  ruleswhen needed are also used.Grammar ought to h ighl ight  the mutualconstra ints  between paradigms andconstruct ions ,  not downplay  them.Hal l iday's  systemic grammar has done wellin this regard (Hal l iday 1961, Hudson1971) .
It is a l ready known tocomputat ional  l inguists  through Winograd 'swork (1972).
The heur ist ic ,  based on workby Lowe, Dooley, and mysel f  (in press),  isexpressed within Hall iday' s f rameworkhere, though it is appl icab le  within anyother model of language as well.In systemic terms a paradigm is knownas a 'system'.
A choice in one system canbe the entry condi t ion for another system,one part of a system can have d i f ferentpropert ies  of combinat ion  from anotherpart, and two or more systems can beact ivated together as the basis  for aconstruct ion.
The heur ist ic  is intended toc lar i fy  something that is more oftenguessed at than proved: what e lementbe longs to what system.What I find, on looking at languagesother than English, is that membersh ip  ina Hal l idayan system is by no means obviousin all cases.
This is true for tworeasons: f irst, some elements havepropert ies  that permit us to ass ign themto more than one system, and second, someelements are art i facts  of the mappingrelat ion between systems and forms, ratherthan d i rect  man i fes ta t ions  of choiceswithin systems.The DataTable (i) gives some data whichi l lustrate this general  point by means ofa l imited example.
It reportscooccur rences  among a par t icu lar ly  complexsubset of the pref ixes to the verb inHuichol,  a Uto-Aztecan language spoken inthe Mexican Sierra Madre.
A 1 in the tablemeans that the prefix at the head of thecolumn has been observed in thecombinat ion  that the row reports.
For thislanguage there are exact ly  15 observablecombinat ions  of these pref ixes,  eachrepresented by one row in Table (i).
Theorder in which the rows are wr i t ten downmakes no d i f ference,  nor does the order inwhich the co lumns appear,  kal-  and ka2-are homophonous forms that occupyd i f ferent  pos i t ions  in the prefix str ingand have d i f ferent  meanings.
~ stands fora h igh back unrounded vowel.
(i) kalke p& m& ka2nii 0 1 0 1 01 0 1 0 0 01 0 0 0 1 11 0 0 0 0 10 1 0 0 0 10 1 0 0 0 00 0 1 0 1 00 0 1 0 0 00 0 0 1 1 10 0 0 1 1 00 0 0 1 0 10 0 0 1 0 00 0 0 0 1 00 0 0 0 0 10 0 0 0 0 0The simple fact that two forms cannotcooccur with each other is the mostobvious basis for saying that those two232are members  of a s ingle system, that theyare in oppos i t ion  as a l ternat ives  in aparadigm, that the choice of one as overagainst the other has l inguist ics igni f icance.
In Table (I), for example,p&- does not occur in any combinat ionwhere ni- occurs, and vice versa.Noncooccurrence patternsThe patterns of noncooccurrence areder ived from Table (i) by a s implealgorithm:For each column:Create a vector of as many 0's asthere are columnsFor each row that has a 1 in thecolumn in question:Unite that row with thevector.Complement the vector.Each of the uncomplemented vectorsrepresents the union of all thecombinat ions  which the form at the head ofits co lumn enters into.
The l's in itscomplement  therefore identi fy the elementswith which it cannot cooccur.The Huichol data -- and this is trueof other languages, poss ib ly  of alllanguages -- do not a l low us to drawimmediate conc lus ions  about mutualexc lus iveness or s imple comembersh ip  insystems.
The pref ixes represented by thecomplement vectors of each form are(2) kal: ke, m&ke: kal, p&, m&, ka2p&: ke, m&, nim&: kal, ke, p&ka2: keni: p&A form like p&- can be assigned toone system in oppos i t ion with ni-, and toanother in oppos i t ion with ke- and m&-;but kali-, which could also g--o into--asystem with __ke and m_&&-, cooccurs  with p&-and therefore cannot represent ana l ternat ive to it.
The logic of systemsin grammar is more complex thanindependent commutat ion,  with theCartes ian products that that implies, inwhich each form of one set cooccurs withevery form of another.Decompos i t ionThe true interdependency of asystemic network can be captured in acooccurrence graph by f irst decomposingTable (I).
The most manageabledecompos i t ion  strategy found so far is tostart with the column that min imizes  thenumber of l's that would be removed fromthe table if all the rows that have l's inthat column were removed.
We convert  thoserows into a component  subgraph, thencont inue recurs ive ly  on the table minusthose rows until no rows are left, orunti l  the zero row is left; then we alsoconvert  the zero row if there is one intoa component  subgraph.
In the final step ofthe heur ist ic ,  the component  subgraphs areunited to g ive the complete cooccurrencegraph.
That graph of forms is the aim ofthe heurist ic .
It is not a systemicnetwork d iagram itself, but is rather astatement of a major  constra int  on thesemantic systemic d iagram that accountsfor the forms.Component  subgraphs are formed byputt ing a l ternat ives ver t ica l ly  in anyorder within square brackets,  andconnect ing forms that cooccur in any orderby hor izontal  l ines.
Absence of any formin a part icular  combinat ion  is representedby ---.In Table (i) the two rows thatcontain l's for ke- have a total of onlythree l's in them; so those two rows aretaken out for the first subgraph:(3) keThis subgraph, like the two rows of Table(i) that it represents,  says that ke- canoccur with or without ni-.The fullder ived from Tables imple a l te rnat ivesproducts:set of component  subgraphs(i) contains onlyand their Cartes ianEni (4) (a) ke , - - -Ek~ ~ Re2E ka2 (c) kal ni(d) m& ka2 E::_\](e) ka2(f) m& .. E::_7(g) ni(h)Union of component  subgraphsWe unite these subg raphs byconf lat ing what they have in common andsymbol iz ing their d i f ferences  asa l ternat ives,  by the d is t r ibut iveproperty.
Four of the subgraphs, (a), (f),(g) , and (h) , can be combined withoutchanging the picture of s imple systems and233Cartesian products:n i(5) ke ___A restriction on Cartesian productsappears, however, when we expand thecomposite diagram further.
(d) has threeout of four of its elements in common withelements already in the composite diagram(5) .
The fourth element, however, hasnothing to do with ke- or its absence, butonly with m&-.
Here is where thediscrepancies in noncooccurrenceproperties of different forms come intothe picture, and here is where theHallidayan device of linked brackets isneeded in order to show up thosediscrepancies.
The elements in (6) arereordered to disrupt the graphic shapegiven by (5) as little as possible:I ka2  I~__m& ~ ~n i(6) keCooccurrence graphThe complete cooccurrence graph isbuilt up by continuing in the same wayuntil all the component subgraphs are init:2 ~ P&- 1The use of two null symbols in asingle set of alternatives does not meanthat Huichol has two zero prefixes thatcontrast with each other, but rather thatthe graph is essential ly nonplanar.Redundant nulls could be eliminated bycrossing lines in an equivalent graph.This diagram now shows all theconstraints on cooccurrence that there arefor these Huichol prefixes.
It is not yeta systemic diagram, because systemicdiagrams give differences in meaning andthis one gives only cooccurrences offorms.
The systemic diagram we come upwith will, however, have to account foreach of the constraints on cooccurrencegiven by this diagram.Our scrutiny of cooccurrences andnoncooccurrences has shown us what formsmight be in opposition with each other ina semantic system, and how those formsinterlock.
That is as far as our explicitheuristic take us; but it narrows thefield for semantic investigationconsiderably.Computational aspectsBefore I go on to show the payoff interms of systems of meaningful choices,let me sketch the computational aspects ofthe heuristic.
For a small problem likethe one in the example, of course, nocomputing is needed.
But were we to takein all 42 verb prefixes of Huichol, andstate how they combine with suffixes anddifferent stem types as well, theheuristic would never get off the groundwith pencil and paper.
It is a goodexample of how a computationally simpleprocess, actually a twist on concordancegeneration, can bring order into an areawhere a linguist is otherwise all toolikely to shrug his shoulders and defineoversimplif ied systems, then writeinterminable footnotes about why theydon't quite combine as he says they do.A linguist in the field needs athree-step computational aid.
Step One isdata entry: take in occurring combinationsof forms, which could as well be functionwords or suffixes or any combination ofclosed class phenomena, and develop atable like Table (i).
Step Two is union:read the table and develop a vector foreach form that shows the union of all itscombinations.
Step Three is decomposition:segregate out from the table the subsetsof its rows that facilitate making itscomponent subgraphs.These three steps are easy toimplement.
The fourth step of theheuristic, forming the cooccurrence graphby uniting the component subgraphs, is atleast an order of magnitude more complex,and may not be feasible for a small fieldcomputer.Systemic diagramAfter the heuristic procedure is gonethrough, whether with pencil or bycomputer, the construction of a semantichypothesis rich enough to account for allthe patterns of cooccurrence can go ahead.This is a standard linguistic undertaking,and has two sides.
The first is toinvestigate the reasons why one or anothermember of a noncooccurring set like theones in (2) gets chosen.
The reasons forchoosing either member of a pair may notbe the same in the context of one patternof choices made in other systems as it isin other contexts.
The second part of thesemantic inquiry is to identify orcombinations of forms whose presence is anartifact of the mapping between meaningand form, and not an assertion o f  apart icu lar  meaning.This arbitrariness in the mappingrelation shows up in two places in theexample.
When p&- is present, k__aal- haseither a tentative or a very strongnegative meaning: kaalp&m{e means 'hemight not go' or 'he shall not go!'
(the234meaning split is not too d i f ferent  fromthat of English terr ib ly in terr ib lydisf igured vs. terr ib ly nice).
With ni-,however, __kal- has to be there when k_~a2-,the ordinary negative, is present, and mayor may not be there when ka2- is absent.The requirement that kal- always go withka2- in the presence of ni- e l iminatesthe possib i l i ty  of the two homophones everbeing opposed to one another, withresult ing confusion between negat ive andtentat ivn between negat ive and tentat ivemeanings.The other arb i t rar iness turns up ontrying to relate m&- with ni-.
m&- byitself is the sign of a dependent verb,and ni- by itself of an independent verbat a partice combinat ion m&ni, however,has nothing to do with either of thesemeanings; it makes a statement of thespeaker's opinion.
I take it to be amorpholog ica l ly  complex expression of aseparate term of the modal system.Taking these d iscrepancies  intoaccount gives us a systemic diagram:(8) Ftentat ive-~assert ive|  kalp& \[_definitenegative-- narrat ive ---ka2 nievaluat ive !.
dependent.
m&positiv conjunct \[~imperativ nike eneral\[narrative\] implies kalobl igatory with \[ne-gative\]optional with \[positive\]\[evaluative\] realized as m&+niIt is by stra ightening out kal- andm&ni- that it becomes possible fo-{-- us togive a systemic diagram plus a set ofreal izat ion rules for it.
Thestraightforward real izat ion rules arewritten right into the diagram: forexample, if you choose \[negative\] , utterka2-.
The more complex real izat ions aregiven at the bottom of the diagram.The terms of the sys temic  diagram arelabels for semantic choices that have beenexplained elsewhere and do not concern usnow; they do not const i tute explanat ionsin themselves.
Once the arbitrary mappingsare def ined in real izat ion rules, thediagram embodies only one real restr ict ionon Cartesian products of paradigms, inthat Huichol has no special negativeimperative form.
(It uses the negat ivedeclarat ive p&ka2 in its place.)
Thecompleteness o--f---the analysis is supportedby the fact that the fnterconnectedparadigms of (8) have exact ly 14 pathsthrough them, and that together with theoptional  rule for the real izat ion of kal-with ni-, these yield exact ly the 15 --lowsof Table (i) with which we began.Bibl iog raphyGrimes, Joseph E., Ivan Lowe, and RobertA.
Dooley.
in press.
Closed systemswith complex restr ict ions.Anthropological  Linguist ics.Hal l iday, Michael A. K. 1961.
Categor iesof the theory of grammar.
Word17:241-292.Hudson, R. A.
1971.
Engl ish complexsentences.
Amsterdam: North-Hol landPubl ishing Company.Winograd, Terry.
1972.
Understandingnatural language.
New York: AcademicPress.235
