An Argument about the Compositionof Conceptual StructureRay JackendoffBrandeis UniversityIn order for people to be able to talkabout what they perceive, there must be a levelof mental representation at which informationconveyed by language is compatible with infor-mation from sensory systems such as vision,nonverbal audition, touch, and so forth.
I willcall this level conceptual structure.
Thoughthe existence of conceptual structure has beenmore or less taken for granted (especially bythe AI community), the need to consider itseriously has been brought to the attention oflinguists rather recently, by such works asFodor (1975) and Miller and Johnson-Laird (1976).This paper will present a combination of ling-uistic and visual evidence which bears onthe nature of conceptual structure.i, Ge~eral properties of a theory of concep-tual structureA linguist's questions about conceptualstructure can be separated into two major issues.The first, which the linguist shares with manybranches of psychology, concerns the form ofconceptual structure itself; the second, par-ticular to linguistics, concerns the mappingbetween conceptual structure and syntacticstructure.
An answer to the first question,within the theoretical paradigm l wi l lasSume~will consist of a set of well-formedness rulesfor conceptual structure.
The second will beanswered by a set of correspondence ruleswhich relate some subset of coneptual structures(the verbally expressible concepts) into somesubset of syntactic structures (the meaningfulsentences).It seems reasonable to assume for a firstapproximation that the well-formedness rulesfor conceptual structure are universal andinnate, i.e.
that everyone is born with thecapacity to develop the same concepts.
However,the actual concepts that one does develop willdepend to some extent on experience--includingpossibly linguistic experience, so there is roomfor a certain amount of "Whorfian" variation ifnecessaly.On the other hand, this position is not con-sistent with what I gather is the strongestversion of Piagetian developmental theory,which could be construed in the present frame-work as a claim that certain conceptual well-formedness rules must be learned.
Rather, thedevelopment of the child's conceptual abilitymust be attributed to increasing richness andinterconnection of concepts, or to growth eitherin the well-formedness rules or in computationalcapacity, over which the child and the environ-ment have little or no control.
(The kind ofgrowth I have in mind here is akin to thegrowth of bones and muscles: the environ-ment must furnish nourishment, but it hardlycan be said to control the interesting aspectsof structure.
See Chomsky (1975) for discussion.
)In addition to the assumption of univer-sality and innateness of the conceptual well-formedness rules, I will make three otherassumptions about the theory of conceptualstructure and its relation to language.
First,a theory of conceptual structure must be obser-vationally adequate: as the level linkinglanguage and other perceptual systems, it mustat least be able to express all the concep-tual distinctions made by natural language.In practice, this calls for an attempt toaccount for a lexically and gr~mmatically sig-nificant fragment of the language withoutartificial assumptions about the semantics (suchas restriction to a microworld).Second, a theory of conceptual structuremust provide some princip1~d way for the meaningsof the parts of a sentence to be combined intothe maaning of the whole sentence.
Thisrequirement of compositionality may be takenmore or less strongly, depending on whether ornot one requires each syntactic constituent (oreven each word) of a sentence to correspond toa well-formed concept.Related to this second assumption is a third,that the correspondence rules relating syntaxand conceptual structure be relatively simple.As motivation for this constraint, we observethat the language learner must relate syntacticform to understood meanings--in fact he mustprobably learn many aspects of syntactic formin part by figuring out from context what meaningis intended by other speakers.
Since syntacticform varies from language to language, the corr-espondence rules must be at least partly learned.In order to be able to explain how the childmanages to acquire language, we shouldstrive for a theory in which at least the Sanguage-particular part of the correspondence rules isfairly straightforward.162A second argument for the simplicity ofcorrespondence rules is more heuristic.
Languageis, after all, an information transmission system,conceptual structure being the information whichlanguage conveys.
It would be perverse not totake as a working assumption that language is arelatively efficient and accurate encoding ofthe information it conveys--despite generationsof philosophers who have assured us that languageis impossibly unsystematic and vague.
To give upthis assumption is to refuse to look for principlesin natural language semantics.
Accept~g itentails that all deviations from efficient enco-ding be rigorously justified; what appears tobe a quirky relationship betwenn Syntax and concep-tual structure may turn out to be merely a badtheory of conceptual structure.
(See Goldsmithand Woisetschlaeger (1976), Jackendoff (1978) forarguments to this effect.)2.
The argument: Figure formation and pragmaticanaphoraThe preliminaries complete, we turn to themain argument, which begins with a discussionof one aspect of visual perception before turningto linguistic matters.
We then will drawconsequences for conceptual structure, wherevisual and linguistic information interact.One of the most important and well-studiedphenomena of visual perception is the emergenceof a figure against a background.
Intuitively,the figure is what attention is directed to;coherence or "thingness" inheres in the figure.It is often reported that the figure seems tostand out from the ground or to be imbued withgreater vividness than the ground.
The study ofthe figure-ground opposition has been one of themajor preoccupations of the school of gestaltpsychology (see e.g.
KShler (1947), Koffka (1935)).For a simple and hopefully illustrativeexample, consider the contents of this page, inparticular the geometric configuration in Figure I.Figure 1The whole of this configuration can form a visualfigure seen against the background of the page.Parts of it can also emerge spontaneously as fi-gures; probably the most prominent are a squareand an X, each of which can seen against therest of the page (including the rest of theconfiguration) as background.
Among less naturalfigures, which emerge only with more deliberateeffort from Figure I, are such configurationsas these (in order of decreasing salience, fromleft to right):Figure 2/A number of important observations can bedrawn from this simple example.i.
The number of possible figures that can bebe perceived in a given configuration is verylarge, perhaps unlimited; however,2.
Only a small number of these are particularlysalient.3.
Relative salience of perceived figures is afunction of both features of the physicalsignal and properties of the visual system.4.
Features of the visual context can affectrelative salience of figures.
For example,the configurations in Figure 2 become much morelikely to emerge from Figure 1 upon presen-tation of Figure 2; certain other possiblefigures (such as other arrow-shaped configu-rations) undoubtedly become somewhat moresalient than before, while certain otherpossible figures not presented here remainas unlikely as before.5.
Features of the visual signal interactingwith the viewer's intention can make certainfigures more salient than they otherwisemight be.
For example, more figures willemerge from Figure I if the viewer is instructedto find all possible figures.
Similarly, thisaspect of figure formation is crucial inchildren's puzzles which ask the reader tofind three rabbits and two bears hidden inthe forest, or in the Hirschfeld cartoons inthe New York Times in which the reader in onthe joke is to find a stipulated number ofinstances of the configuration NINA.
Thesefigures would not emergeat  all were it notfor the reader's intention to find them.6.
Features of the visual signal interactingwith the viewer's knowledge may make certainfigures more salient.
Someone who hasworked with automobile engines will perceivemore distinct figures upon looking under thehood than a mechanical novice; a botanistsmay see a number of distinct plants where alayman sees only a tangled confusion.It is important to distinguish the consciousdecomposition of a figure into parts from theprocess of figure formation itself.
The formeris available to awareness, and is in fact governedby principles of figure formation: as was seenin the example above, the perceived parts arethemselves figures.
On the other hand, the mentalprocesses which bring about the emergence of afigure arethemselves not open to awareness, andthe aspects of the configuration which are rele-vant to the character of the perceived figuremay have little to do with the intuitive (i.e.conscious) decompositon of the figure.
To makethis clearer, consider the not atypical exampleof facial recognition.
Though one can recog-nize and distinguish thousands of faces, one can-not in most cases consciously decompse faces andsay specifically what makes them recognizable anddifferent from each other.
In present terms,each recognized face forms a remembered figure,but many of the distinctive features of faces donot themselves form figures and hence are notavailable to conscious awareness (see Carey (1976),and also Helmholtz's (1885) brief but insightfulremarks (p. 369)).The observations we have made about the figure-163ground phenomenon have a bearing on the nature ofconceptual structure.
They suggest that thereis a privileged set of conceptual structureswhich encode figures as unitary entities, andthat this set is somehow related to consciousawareness.
As far as consciousness is concerned,there is no representation of how figures arecomposed; though to other, unconscious, processesthe composition of figures is accessible.
Letus call this set of structures figural expressions.We now relate figural expression in concep-tual structure to language.
Suppose someonepoints and simultaneously utters (i).
(I) I bought that yesterday.What must the hearer do to fully understand thespeaker?
He must of course understand the wordsand the syntactic structure, and be able to usethe correspondence rules involved in inter-preting the sentence; but he also must interpretthe word that.
In this particular utterance,that is a case of what Hankamer and Sag (1976)call "pragmatic anaphora."
In order to under-stand the intended referent of a pragmaticallycontrolled pronoun like that in (i), the hearermust pick something out of his visual field,perhaps aided by the speaker's pointing gesture.To make clearer the process of interpretingpragmatic anaphora, consider an example where nofigure emerges which can correspond to a prag-matically controlled pronoun.
Suppose speakerA utter (I) and points to a blurry photograph:"I bought that yesterday--isn't it gorgeous?
"Speaker B, unable to make out anything in thepicture, doesn't fully understand the utteranceand responds "What are you talking about?
"Suppose A then says, "That boat~" B peers atthe picture and sure enough the figure of aboat emerges.
He has a minor aha-experience:"Oh, that~ How could I miss it?"
He now hasreceived the message and discourse can continue.Every reader has probably had an experiencelike this; its relevance in the present settingis as follows: in order for a pragmaticallycontrolled pronoun to be understood, its intendedreferent must emerge as a figure in the mind ofthe hearer, that is, it must have a represen-tation as a figural expression in conceptualstructure.
Thus we have established an importantconnection between the figure-ground phenomenonand pragmatic anaphora.So far we have dealt only with figuresthat correspond to things (or their shapes).
Byand large this has been the kind of figurethat has been investigated.
But as Hankamer andSag (1976) point out, there are many sorts ofpragmatic anaphora.
(2) Here and there:Your coat is here (pointing) and yourhat is there (pointing).
(3) Do it:(Hankamer attempts to stuff a 9" ballthrough a 6" hoop)Sag: I t 's  not clear you'll be able to do it.
(4) It happen:That (pointing) better not happen again.
(5) Nominal identity-of-sense anaphora:a, (Sag produces an apple)Hankamer: Did you bring one for me?b.
Those (pointing, e.g.
to a (single)Cadillac) are expensive.
(6) Manner adverb:( thus )You shuffle cards I so ~ (demonstrating)%~his way)(7) Measure phrase:The fish that got away was(demonstrating) long.I this ) that yayThere was more than that much (pointing-)in the jar when I left.The same conditions hold on the comprehensibilityof these sorts of pragmatic anaphora as on thatin (i).
For example, if the hearer is unableto see or figure out what goings-on the speakeris pointing at in (4), he will not fully under-stand the utterance (in the sense of havingreceived all the information he is intended toreceive).Given that the existence of an appropriatefigural expression in conceptual structure,supplied by the visual system, is necessaryfor the comprehension of pragmatic that-anaphorain (i), we must conclude similarly that a figuralexpression is necessary for all the sorts ofpragmatic anaphora in (2)-(7) as well.
But fromthe selectional restrictions involved in theseconstructions, we see that the figures involvedcannot be things or shapes.
Rather, each corres-ponds to a different sort of figure, distinctfrom things.
Roughly, here and there correspondto places; do it to actions; it happen tp events;nominal identity-of-sense anaphora to categoriesor kinds; manner adverbials to manners; andmeasure phrases to amounts.
Each of these typesof figures represents a different organizationof the visual field than do figures correspondingto physical objects.The existence of this variety of types ofpragmatic anaphora suggests three points.
First,the mind has the capacity to form figures of anumber of distinct types on the basis of visualperception.
Second, conceptual structure canrepresent such entities as places, actions,events, etc.
as figural expressions,and this iswhy we can talk about them.
Third, by the cri-terion of simplicity of correspondence rules,these entities are conceptually simple, sincethey correspond to something syntactically simple.More explicitly, that, a maximally simple NP,represents a minimally specified thing in (I),and the visual field is the source of the remaininginformation about the intended message.
Similarly,the other expressions of pragmatic anaphora aremaximally simple PPs, VPs, etc., and thereforeshould likewise correspond to minimally specifiedentities of the proper type; again, the remainderof the intended message is conveyed through thevisual system.1643.
The alternative to psychological and philo-sophical reductionismOne might object that all these differenttypes of entities should be reduced by the theoryof conceptual structure to concurrences ofphysical objects over time (a four-dimensionalspace-time map, for example), and that such en-tities as places and events should play only aderivative role in linguistic semantics.
Butsuch a view generally assumes that the psycho-logical notion thing can be fairly simplycorrelated with physical objects via patternsof retinal stimulation; and this assumption ispatently false.
Most of the literature of per-ception is concerned with how we manage the re-markable feat of construing the world as full ofmore or less stable things, given constantlyshifting patterns of retinal stimulation, andwith how the things we see are or are not corre-lated with actual physical facts.
It's'not easy.What seems to me a more productive approachis to abandon the goal of reduction and to claimthat the types of entities referred to by theanaphoric expressions in (I)-(7) are all presentas primitives of conceptual structure.
Formally,this means that the well-formedness rules forconceptual structure must allow for figuralexpressions which correspond to each type.
Fur-thermore, the well-formedness rules must providean algebra of relationships among the types: athing can be in a place, an event may have acertain number of things and places as consti-tuents, some events consist of an action performedby a thing (the agent), and so forth.
Under thisapproach, linguistic semantics is not concernedwith reducing out events, places, and so forth,but with clarifying their psychological nature andwith showing how they are expressed syntacticallyand lexically.If any reduction is to take place, it willbe in the theory of perception, which now mustexplain the relation of retinal (and auditory, etc.
)stimuli to event- and place-perception as wellas thing-perception.
If this view is correct,one would expect these other aspects of percsptionto have many of the same gestalt properties asthing-perception: dependence on proximity, clo-sure, "good form," and so forth.
In fact, thefew pieces of work I know of on perception ofentities other than things (Michotte (1954) oncausation, Jenkins, Wald, and Pittenger (1976)on events, remarks of KBhler (1947, pp.
89-90)on temporal grouping) do reveal just what we areled to expect.
This suggests that there is nofundamental new difficulty for perception inadmitting entities other than things into concep-tual structure--just more of the old problem ofhow we perceive anything at all.The argument of section 2 also explicitlyaddresses the important philosophical issue of theontological commitment of natural languagesemantics: what entities should semantic theoryallow language to talk about?
The predominantphilosophical tradition, modeling itself aftermathematics, tries to minimize primitives andaxioms.
(It is perhaps not insignificant thatFrege and Russell, the founders of modern logic,were most deeply concerned with foundations ofmathematics.)
Thus logicians mostly confine them-selves to semantic systems which contain onlythings and sets as pr/mitive ontological types.A few, such as Davidson (1967, 1969), have triedto argue that events and actions are necessaryas well.
But Davidson himself has some qualmsabout such entities, because criteria of indivi-duation are not easy to define.The view of language taken here, however,takes the ontological commitment of naturallanguage semantics not to be a question ofelegance, but an empirical question: what possibleontological types are psychologically real?
Theargment presented here, based on the interactionof language and visual experience, provides simplepreliminary evidence for a relatively rich onto-logy.
As further justification, one would hopeto show that this ontology is necessary on bothlanguage-internal and perception-internal groundsindependently.
(Jackendoff (1978) gives linguis-tic arguments to justify the notion place.)
Onewould also hope to come to terms with the philo-sophical traditions concerning reference, whichwill be drastically affected by the expansion.I am not prepared to reconstruct the entire edi-fice at this point; some arguments will appearin Jackendoff (in preparation).4.
ConclusionThe main argument of this paper combinedperceptual and linguistic evidence to show thatfigural expressions in conceptual structuremust include entities of a great number ofontological types.
I take this to be a prototypefor a novel sort of linguistic argumentation--one that treats descriptive semantics as funda-mentally a psychological rather than logicaldiscipline, and which seeks to account for thenature of thought and of human experience throughgrammatical structure.
It is not clear that thisis linguistics in the usual sense any more.
Ratherit is an attempt to use linguistic theory as atool of cognitive psychology.
This seems to meto be a promising way to go.ReferencesCarey, Susan (1976) "A Case Study: Face Recog-nition," in Explorations in the Biology ofLanguage, Report of the MIT Work Group in theBiology of Language, mimeo, pp.
229-264.Chomsky, Noam (1975) Reflections on Language,New York, Pantheon.Davidson, Donald (1967) "The Logical Form ofAction Sentences," in N. Rescher, ed., The Logicof Decision and Action, Pittsburgh, Univ.
ofPittsburgh Press...... (1969) "The Individuation of Events," inN.
Rescher et al, eds., Essays in Hon0r ofCarl G- Hempel, Dordrecht, Reidel.Fodor, Jerry (1975) The Language of Thought,New York, Crowell.Goldsmith, John, and Erich Woisetschlaeger (1976)"The Logic of the Progressive Aspect," Blooming-ton% Indiana University Linguistics Club.165Hankamer, Jorge, and Ivan Sag (1976) "Deep andSurface Anaphora," Linguistic Inquiry 7.3, 391-428.Helmholtz, Hermann (1885) On the Sensations ofTone, New York, Dover reprint, 1954.Jackendoff, Ray (1978) "Grammar as Evidence forConceptual Structure," in M. Halle, J. Bresnan,and G. Miller, eds., Linguistic Theory andPsychological Reality , Cambridge, MIT Press...... (in preparation) Semantics and Cognition.Jenkins, James J., Jerry Wald, and John B. Pittenger(1976) "Apprehending Pictorial Events: An Instanceof Psychological Cohesion," in Minnesota Studiesin the Philosophy of Science, Vol.
9.Koffka, Kurt (1935) Principles of Gestalt Psycho-log v, New York, Harcourt, Brace.KShler, Wolfgang (1947) Gestalt Psychology, 2d ed.,New York, Liveright; Mentor Books reprint.Michotte, A.
(1954) La Perception de la 6ausalit~,2d ed., Louvain, Publications UniversitairesLouvain.Miller, George, and Philip Johnson-Laird (1976)Language and Perception, Cambridge, HarvardUniversity Press.Wittgenstein, Ludwig (1953) Philosophical Invest-igations, Oxford, Blackwell.Th is  research was supp6r ted  in par f -~a Fe l lowsh ip  for  Independent  Study andResearch  f rom the Nat iona l  Endowmentfor the Humani t ies .166
