A NOTE ON PARTIAL MATCH OF DESCRIPTIONS: CAN ONESIMULTANEOUSLY QUESTION (RETRIEVE) AND INFORM (UPDATE)?
IAravind K. JoshiDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceThe Moore School, University of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, Pa. 19104Summary: In data base query systems there is an~p~t  assumption that descriptions in queriesmust match exactly, i.e., queries are for retrievalonly, and not for retrieval and updating simul-taneously.
A related assumption (or constraint)that in questions descriptions are used refer-entially only (i.e., a question cannot be usedsimultaneously for questioning and informing) seemsto hold in ordinary conversations also, with somequalifications.
Some issues related to thevalidity of such a constraint and its relationto partial matching of descriptions are brieflydiscussed in this note.i.
In a question-answer system each description~n a query is used referentially i.e., for eachdescription one expects to find an entity in thedata base which serves as the unique referent forthat description.
For simplicity, hereafter wewill consider only definite descriptions (inparticular, definite noun phrases consisting of adefinite article, an adjective, and a noun).
Thusin (i)(i) Is the red hook on the table?the description the red book will serve to identifyan entity, say, e I in the data base 2 and thedescription the table, an entity, say, e 2 .
Thequestion can be~- -~red  after verifying theappropriate relation between e I and e 2 .
For thepurpose of makingthe definiteness transparent andalso for simplifying the discussion in this note,let us assume that there is exactly one book andone table in the data base.2.
The match for the red book can succeed if e 1~s  a color attribute with the value red.
Thematch can fail either due to a mismatch or apartial match.
A mismatch will occur if e I has acolor value other than red, say green.
A partialmatch will occur if e I has an unspecified valuefor the color attribute or if the possession ofthe color attribute itself has not been specifiedfor e I .In the rest of the discussion, we will not beconcerned with failure due to mismatch, althoughmany of the issues raised below are quite relevantto this ease also.
We will be concerned withpartial matches only.
A partial match really isa partially successful match, where a part of thedescription has matched exactly, and theremainder has failed to match due to the lack ofsome information, and not due to a mismatch.3.
Let us consider the case of a partial matchwhere the part of the description that matched issufficient to identify the referent uniquely.
In(2) this is trivially accomplished because of ourassumption that there is exactly one book and onetable in the data base.
3 Although we have apartial match (due to the lack of the color valueor the color attribute itself for e ), it will be?
.
1possible to answer the question either by yes orno depending on whether e I is on e 2 or not, sincethe referents e I and e 2 have been uniquelyidentified.
How should we proceed in this case?i.
If we insist that each description inthe question must match exactly, then clearly, wehave failed to establish a refer~iceand thequestion cannot be answered.2.
On the other hand, we may ssume thatwhenever we have a partial match and the referentsare uniquely identified somehow, we should answerthe question, and treat that part of thedescription which was not accounted for as newinformation.
This new information can then beused to update the data base.
Thus for thequestion (2), if the partial match is due to thefact that in the data base the value for the colorattribute for e I is not specified, then we can nowspecify it to be red.
If, on the other hand, thepartial match was due to the fact that thepossession of the color attribute itself is notspecified for el, then the updating would involveadding a new attribute called color for el, andthen specifying a value for it, whieh in is thiscase is red.
The first type of update can becalled content update and the second type,structure update; in the first case we have madea local modification of assigning a value to anattribute, while in the second case a newstructural item has been added.
44.
There are a number of issues involved inadopting a strategy for updating upon a partialmatch when the matched part uniquely identifiesthe referent.
We will state only two of theseissues here and pursue the second in some detail.a) The part of the description that wasmissing in the data base (and which led to a184partial match) is accepted as new information andused for updating.
The strategy followed is thatif an exact match fails due to the iack of someinformation then the missing information is treatedas new and updating is done accordingly.
This isa kind of default reasoning.
5 However, it is notclear whether we can allow such unconstrainedupdates.
In data base query systems there is animplicit assumption that the descriptions inqueries must match exactly, i.e., queries are forretrieval only 6 and not for retrieval and updatingsimultaneously.
Can we relax this requirementsomewhat?
We can get some ideas by looking atquestions in ordinary conversations, which is whatwe will do briefly in b) below.b) The hypothesis (or constraint) that in aquestion construct 7 definite descriptions areused referentially only (i.e., a question cannotbe used simultaneously for asking a question andconveying some additional information) seems tohold in ordinary conversations also, with somequalifications.
The three examples below brieflydescribe some of the problems involved.i) Suppose that i) there is only oneindividual in the context, 2) the speaker believesthat he is a plumber, 3) the hearer is una~ureof his being a plumber, and 4) the speakerbelieves that the hearer is unaware of his beinga plumber.
Under such circumstances it would beinappropriate to use (3) to aske the question (4),and simultaneously inform the hearer that (5).
(3) When did the plumber leave?
(4) When did the person leave?
(5) He is a plumber.If (3) is used by the speaker (possibly due to amistaken belief that the hearer is aware that theperson is a plumber), it is unlikely that thehearer will update his model without someclarification or some response such as 0hi Ididn't know that he was a plumber, i.e., the hearerwill not update without any interrupting responses.This example illustrates that the questionconstruct cannot be used for questioning andinforming simultaneously, and if it appears tohave been so used (due to the speaker's ignoranceof the hearer's lack of some information), theupdating by hearer is not without an interruptingresponse, thus indirectly confirming the hypothesis.2) Again suppose that i ) there is only oneindividual in the context, 2) the speaker regardshim as a grouch, 3) the hearer has no suchspecific evaluation of him, and 4) the speakerbelieves that the hearer has no such evaluation.In this case, it seems not completely inappropri-ate for the speaker to use (6), in order to askthe question (7), and simultaneously inform theuser that the speaker regards (8) to be the case.
(6) When did the grouch leave?
(7) When did the person leave?
(8) He is a grouch.With evaluative information, simultaneouslyquestioning and informing appears to be a bitmore convenient.
If (6) is used by the speaker,it appears that the hearer can update his model,without any interrupting responses, with theattribute grouchyattached to the entity, asspeaker's eval-~ion (and the hearer's too if heagrees with the speaker).
Even if the hearerasks for clarification, it is likely to be of theform 0hi I didn't know that you thought he was agrouch rather than 0hi I didn't know that he wasa grouch (compare this to the response in theprevious example).3) Finally, there is an apparent violationof the hypothesis in examples such as (9).
(9) Who is sitting to the right of your lovelywife?
(9) can be used by the speaker to ask the questionand pay a compliment (a side effect) rather thanto convey new information.
Thus the hypothesisdoes not appear to be violated in these cases.5.
Some of the issues which merit further--investigation are as follows, i) To what extentthe hypothesis can be violated and what are theside effects.
If the constraint is mutuallyunderstood by the speaker and the hearer, thenany apparent violation of it will be recognizedandmay be accompanied by a side effect(implicature?)
in addition to the updating.
2) Towhat extent updating without interruptingresponses depends on the shape of the description,the syntactic construct in which it appears(e.g., questions, it-clefts, deelaratives, etc.)
8,the role it plays in the construct (e.g., subject,topic, etc.
), the discourse model (for thespeaker and for the hearer) created so far, 9 etc.3) To what extent the 'new' information usedfor updating has to be somehow relevant to the'old' information, either by being inferrablefrom it or by being able to fit it into thediscourse structure created so far, etc.
I0Notes:i.
This work is partially supported byNSF Grant MCS76-19466.
I wish to thankJerry Kaplan, Lorrie Levin, StanRosenschein,Ivan Sag, and Bonnie Webber for valuablediscussions.Some of the issues raised here will bediscussed in detail in a forthcoming paper byJoshi and Rosenschein (Strategies for referenceand ascription in object centered representations).2.
We will assume a rather simple-minded structure for the data base.
It willconsist of entities and attributes, and relationsamong entities.3.
However, in general, unique referencemaybe established due to the context, and thestructure and content of the data base.4.
In the data base context, updates areusually content updates.
Structure updates are not185permitted.
In a conversational context anddiscourse understanding, clearly, both types ofupdates are possible.
In these contexts it is notclear whether~we can always tell which type ofupdate has taken place.
Structure updates shouldbe harder than context updates, cognitivelyspeaking; but this is only a conjecture at thistime.5.
See "0nreasoningbydefault"  by RaymondReiter (this volume).
The closed world assumptiondiscussed in this paper is also relevant toour discussion.
See also "Fragments of a theoryof human plausible reasoning" by Allan Collins(this volume), and "Inferencing onpart ialinformation" by Aravind K. Joshi, in PatternDirected Inference (ed.
F. Hays-Roth and D.Waterman), Academic Press, 1978.6.
See "Cooperative responses from a naturallanguage data base query system: Preliminaryreport", by S. Jerrold Kaplan, Technical Report,Department of Computer and Information Science,University of Pennsylvania, November 1977.7.
We will limit outselves only to whquestions and yes/no questions.8.
Lorrie Lev inhasmade a perliminaryinvestigation of the update potential of some ofthese constructs (unpublished).9.
Entity-oriented discourse models havebeen considered for problems of reference(see "A formal approach to discourse anaphora"by Bonnie Webber, Ph.D. Dissertation, HarvardUniversity, 1978).i0.
A detailed discussion of some of theseissues will be included in a forthcoming paperby Joshi and Rosenschein (see note i).186
