On primitives, prototypes, and other semantic anomaliesTerry WinogradStanford UniversityOver the past few years, there have been a number ofpapers arguing the relative merits of primitives and proto-types as representations for the meaning of naturallanguage.
Much of the discussion has been both pug-nacious and confused, with each author setting up one oranother straw-man to knock down.
Much of the confusionhas resulted from a lack of agreement as to what it wouldmean for a system to use primitives or prototypes.
Thereare several different dimensions along which semanticfolxnalisms vary, and many of the arguments have blurredthese into a single distinction.In this paper, I propose a framework within which tocompare a variety of semantic formalisms which havebeen proposed in linguistics and artificial intelligence.
Thepaper lays out three dimensions (called ontological, ogical,and relational), describing the relevant options along eachand the implications of making alternative choices in thedesign of a formalism.
It does not attempt to demonstratethat one or another alternative is right, but instead tries toclearly state the advantages and disadvantages of each in anon-partisan way.
It is more in the style of a text-bookthan of a research paper.
Its contribution will, I hope, bein dissolving some non-issues which have occupiedprevious discussion, and in focussing attention on the realdistinctions between alternative proposals.
My ownprejudices are set forth in Winograd (1976) and Bobrowand Winograd (1977).
In addition to citing primarysources, I will make particular eference to the discussionby Wilks (1977) since it is recent and sets out a number ofthe same issues.The ontological dimensionThe formalisms we want to compare are all based on theuse of symbol structures to represent meaning.
There aredeep philosophical questions as to how much of meaningcan be captured in a formal system, but such questions areoutside the scope of this paper.
We will take it for grantedthat meaning is to be characterized in terms of structuredrelationships between discrete symbols.
The first question,then, is just what these symbols are.
There are three basicpositions which have been taken:LINGUISTIC.
In many older accounts of meaning, the onlyentities which take part in the formal structure are theentities of language: words, morphemes, phrases, and sen-tences.
The dictionary is an account of meaning withinthis tradition.
The meaning of a word is expressed interms of structures made up of other words, without anydirect appeal to concepts which lie outside the language.PSYCHOLOGICAL.
Most current work in AI and psycho-linguistics assumes that the entities which are manipulatedin the formal theory represent some sort of concepts whichunderlie language use, but are' not themselves part of thelanguage.
These concepts have psychological reality, inthat they correspond to functional components in thememory and language activity of a person.
Words andsentences are seen as corresponding to structures of under-lying concepts.
A psycholinguistic theory includes an ac-count of the processes by which language is translated intoconceptual structures, and generated from them.
In thecase of AI systems (such as the conceptual dependencyformalism of Schank (1972)), the commitment to PSYCHO-LOGICAL entities is a global assumption which plays littlerole in the methodology of the work.
In the case ofpsychological experimentation (for example, much of thework described by Clark and Clark (1977)), it is a hypo-thesis to be tested explicitly.
Some theoretical psycho-logists (such as Miller and Johnson-Laird (1976) andFodor (1975)) have characterized it is a private "languageof thought".TItEORETICAL.
A more cautious tance is taken by mosttheorists who work within the generative linguistics para-digm.
They argue that the symbols of their formal seman-tic theories need not correspond to functional psycho-logical entities.
The symbols and structures play a rolesimilar to that of postulated theoretical entities in physics,such as neutrinos and probability waves.
A system basedon them is justified in terms of its resulting overallsimplicity and ability to account for the observablephenomena, not by finding psychological correlates for itsindividual terms.
This view shares with the psychologicalview the notion of lexical decomposition.
Words and sen-tences of the language correspond to structures built up ofnon-linguistic symbols.25There has been a certain amount of confusion withinboth syntactic and semantic theory about whether there isany psychological reality to the formal constructs postu-lated by linguists.
In the 60's, experiments w.re carriedout (e.g., Miller, 1962) looking for psychological correlatesof transformations, with generally negative results.
Chom-sky has repeatedly reiterated his official stance that thevalidity of transformational theory is not based on anyassumption as to whether transformations play a functionalrole in language comprehension r production.
Similarly,as Wilks (1977) points out, Katz's view of semantic mar-kers shifted from PSYCHOLOGICAL (in Katz and Fodor,1965) to THEORETICAL (in Katz, 1972).In doing AI research, the issue can be finessed.
Inbuilding a program, one must develop a set of symbolicstructures which are used functionally--they play a directrole in the memory and reasoning of the system.
In thissense they are purely psychological (the psychology of thecomputer program, not of a person).
When the program isviewed as a 'theory of human language use', two routescan be taken.
If strong psychological equivalence isclaimed, there is an assumption that the internal organ-ization and objects of the program correspond to theorganization and objects in the mind of a human languageuser.
An alternative position of weak psychological equiv-alence is similar to that of the generative linguists.
Theprogram as a whole is justified by its ability to matchhuman performance, but no claims are made about theways in which its organization maps onto psychologicalphenomena.
Since programs can be built without con-fronting this issue, there has been a tendency by AIresearchers to handwave about it, taking whicheverviewpoint seems most advantageous in a given discussion.Begging the fundamental question ofsemanticsA persistent cause of misunderstanding in argumentsabout semantics has been a lack of agreement over what a'semantic theory' should achieve.
From a philosophicalstanclpomt, Uae issue centers around what meaning is.
Thefundamental question is that of the relationship betweensymbols (words) and a world about which they speak.From an AI standpoint, he question is operational--howcan a symbolic system be organized which accounts for thephenomena of language use.
As pointed out by Fodor(1978), no answer to the second question, no matter howclever or elegant, is an answer to the first.
In creating asystem which accepts text, answers questions, or entersinto a dialog, we have not created a theory of semantics,we have created another class of objects for which such atheory is needed.This observation applies regardless of which of thethree choices is taken along the ontological dimension.
Intaking words as the formal objects, we leave the semanticproblem completely unaddressed.
In relying on psycho-logical entities, we transform the question into the equallydifficult one "How are concepts related to the world whichthey are concepts about?".
Similarly, with theoreticalobjects we beg the question by pushing it into a differentdomain.
As many people have argued, (e.g.
Lewis (1972)in discussing Katz and Fodor's theory of semanticmarkers), translating English into 'Markerese' doesn'tilluminate the fundamental nature of meaning any morethan translating it into French.Wilks (1977) describes everal papers which argue forthe necessity of a semantic theory along the general inesof Tarski and recent work in model-theoretic semantics forformal languages.
He characterizes them as criticisms ofsemantic primitives and argues that they are based onweak 'escape arguments'.
He is correct in concluding thatthe concerns of these authors are orthogonal to the specifictechnical debate about primitives, but wrong in assumingthat they are arguments in the same domain at all.
Increating formal systems for representing and manipulatingstructures corresponding to meaning, we are not forced toanswer the fundamental question of what meaning is.
AsWilks points out, this question has been asked forthousands of years, and technical progress does not seemto depend on clearing it up.There are valid doubts about whether adequatesemantic formalisms (in the AI/operational sense) can bedeveloped without more careful thought about the basicquestions.
In particular, our unexamined assumptionsabout the nature of meaning can lead us down paths in theproblems we choose to look at, which may in the long runconceal other more fruitful paths.
However, this sort ofquestion has not been addressed in current AI work, andfor the purposes of setting up a clear framework forunderstanding that work, we will continue to ignore it.
Acharacterization f a semantic formalism in terms of thedimensions of this paper has nothing to say about thefundamental nature of semantics.The logical dimensionAs implied in the previous section, we are primarilyconcerned with the operational implications of differentformalisms--the ways in which they can be used inlanguage comprehension a d production.
Each symbol orstructure of symbols plays a role in reasoning processeswhich underlie language activities, and there are a numberdifferent approaches to dealing with them.
There are threebasically different views of the logical status of theindividual concepts (or words):ABSTRACTION.
The tradition drawn from logic andlinguistics is to view the elements of a semantic formalismas logical abstractions--predicates and constants within alogical system.
The meaning of a word is a structure ofsemantic elements which express the logical truthconditions determining its applicability.
For example, ifwe analyze one sense of "bachelor" as having the semanticcomponents HUMAN, MALE, and UNMARRIED, it isimplied that any object to which that sense of the wordcould be properly applied will fit the truth conditionscorresponding to those terms.
If "kill" is analyzed as astructure of the form CAUSE(X, DIE(Y)), then we cansafely deduce from the fact that "A killed B" that, amongother things, B died.26There are many old and unsettled ebates about thestatus of such knowledge as analytic or synthetic.
Theissue here is not that distinction, but the status of thesemantic analysis as leading to logical consequences whichcan be drawn from the the application of a given word.PROTOTYPE.
One of the currently fashionable trends inAI is the development of languages and systems based onsome kind of frame or prototype representation.
The basicmotivation comes from the observation that much of whatwe know about the world is not in the form of simplelogical statements, but in knowledge about what is typicalor expected.
If we represent the meaning of "buy" and"sell" in terms of a COMMERCIAL-TRANSACTION scenariowhich includes the transfer of money, we also want to beable to apply it to cases which involve the e~_change ofvalued objects other than money.
However, we do notwant to do this by creating an abstraction (e.g.
theexchanged object is a VALUED-OBJECT) and thereby losethe information that it is usually money.Many papers have been written on the advantages andproblems of including prototypical infoixnation as afundamental part of a semantic representation.
Formally,such systems are distinct from those based on logicalabstraction only if issues of computational order andresources are taken into account (See Winograd (1976), fora discussion of these issues).
However, it is important notto focus too narrowly on form rather than use: there is aclear difference in approach between the adherents of thealternate views.
Some systems (such as Schank's (1972)system of primitives) are clearly based on prototypes eventhough they may not appear as such in the formalcharacterization.
The inferences they draw from semanticdecomposition are based on typical expectation, ratherthan logical certainty.Prototype-based systems have often gone along with apsychological view of the status of the symbols they use.Some of the motivation has come from psycholinguisticexperiments which indicate that in many cases people areuncertain about the applicability of words to 'borderlinecases', although they have a clear notion of the 'proto-typical case'.
This applies to areas of the vocabulary asvaried as color terms (Berlin and Kay, 1969) and simplenouns such as "cup", "glass", and "bowl" (Labov, 1973).The implication is that the semantic representation ofwords is organized around a set of 'most typical' casesrather than around a checklist of logical criteria whichmust be met for the word to be applied.EXEMPLAR.
Extending the prototype notion one stepfurther, some psychologists have suggested that ourunderstanding of words is based on having exemplarswhich are drawn from experience.
Rather than having asemantic prototype for "fruit", we may have an exemplaryfiuit (e.g.
a red apple) and understandthe use of the wordby comparison to what we know about this apple.
Theline between prototypes and exemplars is not sharp, butthere is a difference in emphasis.
Prototypes emphasizethe presence of information which is typical to the class ofobjects described by a word, while exemplars emphasizethe ability to reason by comparing one specific object toanother specific object, which may have its own peculi-arities which are not general to the class.Although there has been some discussion of reasoningby analogy (e.g.
Moore and Newell, 1973), no system Iknow of has really made use of exemplars in a substantialway.
There are many difficult issues surrounding theselection of the 'important' or 'invariant' aspects of theexemplar in a specific context.
Critics of AI (e.g.
Dreyfus,1972) see this as being impossible to adequately representin a formal system.
Whether this turns out to be ulti-mately true or not, we are far from having explored thepotential for such reasoning within AI programs.What  is a primitive?Before going on to the third dimension--the way in whichthe symbols within a semantic formalism are inter-related--it is useful to examine the notion of primitivewhich plays a central role in arguments on semantics.
Inunderstanding the properties of semantic primitives, it ishelpfid to look at two other domains where primitiveshave played an important role: chemistry and math-ematics.
Much of the thinking and discussion aboutprimitives draws on conscious or unconscious comparisonswith these two domains, often without recognition thatthey differ in some critical ways.Chemistry.
One exemplar of a system based on primitivesis the analysis of physical substances as structures made upof elements.
There are atomic elements (note how muchof the abstract vocabulary comes from this exemplar), andwell-defined rules for the ways they can be combined intostructures.
Every substance, no matter how complex, canbe analyzed as a compound of these primitive elements.The set of elements is experimentally determined anddealt with as a fact of nature--no two chemists wouldimagine postulating different sets of elements in theirtheories.
Similarly, the structural analysis of a substance isnot a matter of theoretical choice, but can be determinedempirically.Mathematics.
One of the methodological dvances in thefoundations of mathematics at the beginning of thiscentury was the understanding of how complex mathema-tical systems could be constructed in a systematic wayfrom small sets of primitive concepts.
Beginning with aprimitive basis (such as the notions of set, inclusion, andthe null set), one can define complex constructions, anduse these in still further definitions to build up ever-widening circles of complexity.
In doing this, each newterm is defined in terms of previous terms and simple rulesof composition.
The meaning of a complex term like"abelian group" or "divisor field" can be reduced step bystep to primitives through these definitions.
The choice ofprimitives is not determined by the domain to be covered.For any field of mathematics, there are alternativeaxiomatizations which take different hings as primitive,and define others in terms of them.
Even with the sameset of primitives, there are alternative ways of defining27higher order concepts.
For example, there are differentways of embedding the real numbers in the rationalnumbers for which it is quite difficult to proveequivalence.These two examples illustrate some typical features ofprimitives listed below (the terms used here are somewhatexpanded from those in Wilks, 1977).
Not every systembased on primitives exhibits all of them, but they form apart of our understanding of what it is to be 'primitive':1.
Finitude.
A system contains a relatively small closed setof primitives.
As it is applied to a wider range of things(substances, mathematical constructs, vocabulary items),the set of primitives remains fixed.
The number ofprimitives hould be substantially smaller than the numberof things which can be reduced to combinations ofprimitives.2.
Comprehensiveness.
The set of primitives covers therange of phenomena.
Every entity of interest can beexpressed as a structure of primitives.
For example, achemist would be upset by a new substance which was notbuilt of the available lements, and a mathematician wouldreject a new definition which was not in terms of theprimitives of his or her axiomatization.3.
Completeness.
A description of an entity in terms ofprimitives is sufficient for generating all of the informationabout the entity, There are no 'hidden propeldes'.
Thisdoes not mean that the information must be explicit--a setof mathematical definitions does not provide all of thetheorems, but it does provide a basis for proving all thosewhich could be proved.
In the case of substances, thiscriterion does not apply.
Information other than thechemical structure (for example energy, phase, crystallinestructure, etc.)
is needed for determining the properties ofa substance.4.
Independence.
Primitives should not be definable interms of one another.
This is clear in the case of chemicalelements, and in mathematics it provides a strong metricfor judging axiomatizations.
There is a high value placedon reducing the primitives to an absolutely minimal set.5.
Canonicality.
The analysis of an entity as a structure ofprimitives hould be unique and unambiguous.
Chemistsagree on the structure of a compound as a unique formula.Within a particular axiomatization of a mathematicalsystem, there is one and only one way a term such as"integer" is defined in terms of the primitives.6.
Irreducibility.
The meaning of a primitive cannot beexpanded within the same level of theory.
There are manyissues here as to what a 'level of theory' is, but theapplication is clear in chemistry.
The primitive elementscan indeed be described as composite structures made upof even more primitive sub-atomic particles.
But in doingso, we move from chemistry to atomic physics.
For thepurposes of doing normal chemistry, it is more useful totreat them as primitives.
It is important to recognize that'primitivity' is always relative to an overall choice of thescope of the theory.In comparing the various forms of semantic primitives, wewill look at the ways in which they match these criteria.The  re lat ional  d imens ionThe notion of primitive makes sense only within a systemof interrelated terms.
The basic idea of composition fromprimitives is only one of several possible ways of organ-izing such sets of  relationships:PRIMITIVES.
The most straightforward use of semanticprimitives would be a system in which the full meaning ofany word or phrase could be expressed as a structurewhose components are chosen from a small set of primi-tives, combined according to a well-defined set of rules.No existing system is pure in this sense, as discussedbelow.MUTUAL.
Another approach is to have a web of  mutuallyrelated elements, with no primitive set on which to'bottom out'.
A standard ictionary describes word mean-ing in this way.
Words are defined using other wordswhich are defined using others, and so on, inevitablyleading to circularity.
A mutually related system of termscan be either DEFINITIONAL or DESCRIPTIVE.
In aDEFINITIONAL system, each item is defined by giving astructure made up of other items.
The definition iscomplete, in that no information which is available fromthe term itself is lost by replacing it with the definition.
Ina DESCRIPTIVE system, each term is described bystructures of other terms, but these do not necessarilycapture its full meaning.
Althotigh the dictionary isnormally thought of as being DEFINITIONAL, this is thecase only for very precise technical terms.
For most of thecommon vocabulary, the 'dictionary definition' is a quitepartial account of the meaning of the word.DISTINGUISHED.
In systems based on mutual relations, itwill often be the case that some terms tend be be used indefinitions or descriptions much more often than others.There may be small finite distinguished subsystems of termswhich form a standardized basis for a large number ofdescriptions.
These terms need not be primitive in thesenses discussed above--they may be further reducible,definable in terms of each other, and may provide only apartial coverage of the meanings to be expressed.However, there are organizational (and computational)advantages to granting them a privileged status in the wayother definitions and descriptions are built up.
In fact,most of the argument in favor of semantic primitives forAI systems has been (as we will see below) argument infavor of having one or more preferred subsystems within amutually related system.Some examplesThe following table summarizes the dimensions andchoices described above.
In this section, we will use it tocharacterize a number of existing formalisms.28Ontological ?
Logical Relationaliinguistic ~ (Abstractionl~ /Primitives ,Definitiona l sychological| ~ Prototype | ~lMutual heoretical / ~Exemplar / ~Distinguished~ tDescriptive~Dimensions of choice in a semantic formalismThe traditional dictionary.
The traditional dictionary isclearly LINGUISTIC, based primarily on ABSTRACTION,and MUTUAL relationships.
It varies between being DEF-INITIONAL and DESCRIPTIVE, and at times does includesome PROTOTYPE information.
The popular view of thedictionary tends to ignore the PROTOTYPE and DESCRIP-TIVE aspects.Theories from generative linguistics.
Semantic theorieswithin the Chomskian tradition of generative linguisticstend to be THEORETICAL, based on ABSTRACTION andPRIMITIVES.
Katz and Fodor (1964), Jackendoff (1976),and Leech (1969) all fit these categories.
There is anoccasional hint of PSYCHOLOGICAL relevance, but it doesnot play a major role in the methodology.
Within theschool of 'generative semantics', there are many approa-ches.
Much of FiUmore's (1974, 1975) work is an exam-ination of how PROTOTYPE and EXEMPLAR systems canprovide insights which do not fit neatly into ABSTRAC-TION.
Some of the earlier work on 'underlying verbs'takes a more LINGUISTIC turn, in which the underlyingcomponents are seen as closely related to actual lexicalitems.Semantics based on formal ogic.
Much of the work on thesemantics of natural anguage has been closely related towork on the semantics of formal anguages.
This includesthe classical work on issues like reference, and more recentattempts to view English as a formal language, asdeveloped in Montague grammar.
On the first twodimensions, this work is clearly THEORETICAL andABSTRACFION based.
On the third, the relationshipbetween the symbols used for semantic representationcarries over that of an underlying logical system.
Fromthe point of view of the semantic theory (the relationshipbetween words and underlying entities), each p:edicate orconstant is a PRIMITIVE.
The fact that these are related bytheorems, definitions, etc.
within the logical system isindependent of the semantic formalism in the same sensethat the representation f elements in terms of sub-atomicparticles is independent of ordinary chemistry.
The clarityof this distinction (between the semantic roles and the?
reasoning rules) is one of the advantages of this style ofwork, not shared by most AI programs, which use datastructures and procedures which make no clear distinction.Conceptual Dependency.
Schank has been one of the mostinsistent advocates of primitives, and his early (1972) workwas clearly PSYCHOLOGICAL based on PRIMITIVES.
Asmentioned above, his attention to  'typical' inferencesplaces it closer to PROTOTYPE than to ABSTRACTION.
Intrying to expand his theory beyond the set of simpleactions for which it was initially developed, he hasgradually shifted away from a strong PRIMITIVES basedview, and has been one of the major developers of systemsbased on DISTINGUISHED subsystems.
Schank andAbelson (1977), provide subsystems for actions, scalesreflecting a person's tate, causes, scripts, goals, plans, goaloutcomes, interpersonal themes, and life themes.
Theirstudents have carried out the same kind of activity in otherareas, such as the uses and classification of physical ob-jects.
In all of this work, the emphasis is on finding aplausible and useful set of terms, rather than on justifyingtheir primitive status.
Most of the arguments are based onthe pragmatics of doing language comprehension andreasoning within the system.KRL.
KRL provides a language for representation withincomputer systems.
As such, it is neutral between aPSYCHOLOGICAL and THEORETICAL stance, but theauthors lean heavily towards the PSYCHOLOGICAL indeveloping their formalism.
It is clearly based onPROTOTYPES, and much of the discussion (see Bobrowand Winograd, 1977) centers around this aspect.
It isbased on a MUTUAL DESCRIPTIVE set of relationships.DISTINGUISHED subsystems have been developed withinspecific applications ( ee Bobrow, Winograd, et.
al., 1977),but these have not been a part of the basic formalism.Preference Semantics.
Wilks' system of 'preferencesemantics' is one of the hardest o understand, since heseems to combine many different (and often incompatible)views.
He insists that his system is based on PRIMITIVES,but it has few of the characteristics described above.
Infact, his discussion argues strongly for the possibility of aMUTUAL DEFINITIONAL system, and he provides aninteresting set of DISTINGUISHED subsystems (1977,Appendix A).
In stating that "primitives are to be foundin all natural anguage understanding systems" (1977, p.19) he seems to be using the term 'primitive' to cover anyformal symbol used in a semantic system.
He arguesagainst he PSYCHOLOGICAL basis, but alternates betweenthe other two possibilities along the ontological dimension.He is LINGUISTIC in stating that his formalism is con-sistent with the view that "Every semantic primitive canappear as a surface word in a natural language", andTHEORETICAL in arguing that the primitives are part of aninterlingual "primitive language" which is a "usefulorganizing hypothesis" which has no independent justi-fication in psychological terms, and "has no correctvocabulary, any more than English has".
His formulasgenerally contain only ABSTRACTION information in theirstructure, but have PROTOTYPE information (or in histerms, 'preferences') in the assignment of types of objectsto the nodes.OWL.
The OWL representation is much closer to aLINGUISTIC base than any of the others listed here.
It isdescribed as a system of 'concepts', but its developers(Szolovits, Hawkinson, and Martin, 1977) have paid agood deal of attention to the way that natural anguagewords and collocations can be preserved in the repre-sentation.
It has a MUTUAL DESCRIPTIVE organization,which focuses on ABSTRACTION sorts of information,29although the semantics of the reasoning process are notclearly enough specified to distinguish between this andother choices on the logical dimension.
The term'exemplar' is used in OWL to refer to sub-classes of alarger class, a concept related to but not the same as theone described above.Semantic networks.
There are many versions of semanticnetworks, and it is hard to say anything which appliesacross the board.
The majority have been argued onPSYCHOLOGICAL grounds, have focussed on ABSTRAC-TION information, although with some PROTOTYPE, andhave been a web of MUTUAL DESCRIPTION.
The networknotation is well suited to MUTUAL (as opposed toPRIMITIVE), but is general enough to be used for almostanything.Properties of semantic systemsThe purpose of the classification given above is to providea basis for comparing the merits and problems ofalternative formalisms.
Rather than arguing whetherprimitives are right or wrong, we will examine somedesirable properties for semantic systems and see whatthey imply for the choices to be made along the threedimensions.
This paper cannot hope to cover the full rangeof important issues, but as examples we will consider thefollowing properties:The ability to state significant generalizationsCriteria for deciding on a set of semantic entitiesCoverage of relevant semantic phenomenaCanonicality and its effects on memory formPossibilities for dealing with extended meaning andmetaphorThe ability to state significant generalizations.
The raisond'etre of a semantic theory is the desire to find regularitiesin the way language conveys meaning.
Rather thanenumerating the relationships among every possible set oftexts, we can assign formal semantic structures to texts in aregular way, and systematically describe relationshipsbetween these structures.
The theory is interesting to theextent hat the formal semantic system allows us to findregularities and state broader generalizations than wecould at the surface level.There are many possible views as to what kinds ofgeneralizations are most interesting.
Linguists look forgeneralizations which predict the judgements of nativespeakers as to whether sentences are well-formed.
Some,like Jackendoff (1976) also look for generalizations a tothe entailment relations between sentences.
AI work, suchas that of Rieger (1975) emphasizes inferential general-izations--that certain inferences will be made whenever agiven underlying semantic structure appears.
_-\I systemsin general are based on 'reasoning' programs which makeuse of semantic representations to do reasoning which isindependent of the specific linguistic form in which theknowledge was stated.In some discussions of primitives, it is implied that it isnecessary to have a system based on primitives in order tomake significant generalizations.
It should be clear fromthe discussion above that this is a confusion of categories.Any system of formal semantics i based on generalization.The specific choice to base it on primitive decompositionmay lead to a different set of generalizations, but not anecessarily better one.Criteria for deciding on a set of semantic entities.
Themain factor influencing the choice and justification ofsemantic entities within a formalism is the choice along theontological dimension.
Those who take a LINGUISTICposition need make no choice--the words of the languageare themselves the entities of the semantic theory.
Thereis work to be done in determining the relations betweenthem, but the set of entities is given from the beginning.Those who take a THEORETICAL stance are flee to createsemantic entities at will, but must justify them by demon-strating that the set chosen leads to generalizations andsimplifications which are not shared by alternative sets.
Inthe generative grammar tradition, a good deal of attentionis given to finding a highly valued set.
Through carefulwork, one can construct ests in the form of sentenceswhose acceptability would be predicted by one possibleset, and not by another.
Simplicity of stating the semantictheory is used to choose between sets with equal coverage.In the AI tradition, the selection of entities is moreintuitive and less careful.
A system as a whole is claimedto 'work', and there is little precise evaluation of whichaspects of the formalism were critical, and what might bedone with alternatives.
In this context, there are onlyvague intuitions and heuristics to guide the choice ofentities and their relationships.
Wilks accepts this, innoting that "no direct justification of the vocabulary \[ofprimitives\] makes any sense.
"The m~,st interesting problems arise if the formalism isintended as a PSYCHOLOGICAL theory.
In this case, thedetermination f a set of semantic entities is an empiricalquestion.
There is an implicit claim that there arefunctional equivalents to the elements of the semantictheory within the psychological activities of compre-hending and generating language.
It is possible to inventexperiments which can choose between alternative theoriesaccording to the detailed predictions they make abouthuman performance.
Some of the distinctions above (suchas that between ABSTRACTION, PROTOTYPE and EXEM-PLAR) grew out of experiments of this type.
However,there is a large gap between the isolated examples handledin experiments and the kind of coverage needed in acomprehensive s mantic formalism.
Those people in AIwho have built large-scale systems have not looked todetailed psychological justifications, even though theyoften informally describe their formalism as apsychological theory.
When Schank (1972) calls hisformalism 'conceptual dependency', or Jackendoff desc-ribes his system as using 'cognitive primitives' the appealto psychology is suggestive, not of direct relevance to themethodologies they follow.30iWithin a PSYCHOLOGICAL viewpoint, there are manyfurther issues as to the generality of the postulatedsemantic entities.
Are they idiosyncratic, or shared by allcompetent speakers of a language?
Are they language-specific, or do they represent a more basic experientialknowledge which cuts across cultures and languages?
Ifthey are not language-specific, then are they innate orlearned?
There has been some interesting work done onthese questions in very specific semantic domains such asthe lexicon for describing colors, but once we moveoutside of these limited domains, most of what can besaid is anecdotal or purely speculative.Coverage of relevant semantic phenomena.
In developinga comprehensive s mantic theory, there are many aspectsof meaning which must be taken into account.
Aformalism which is developed for one aspect of meaning(for example, the hierarchical relationships between theclasses named by common nouns) may be inadequate orcompletely irrelevant for others (for example, the ways inwhich participants are related to events).
In some cases, ageneral approach cuts across several aspects.
Much of thediscussion of primitives and prototypes above can beapplied both to classification (for example, Schank's (1972)classification (:,f acts vs. LakofFs (1977) 'gestalts') and tothe case relationships between participants and an act(Fillmore's (1968) notion of a primitive set of cases vs. theBobrow and Winograd (1977) notions of hierarchies ofprototypes with named 'slots').Existing semantic formalisms are all partial, and manyof the arguments in the literature are of  the "I can dosomething you can't do" style.
It is clear, for example,that PRIMITIVES are not well suited for handling the broadvocabulary of nouns and verbs describing the objects andactions of our world in all their variety.
As Wilks says,"No representation i primitives could be expected todistinguish by its structure hammer, mallet, and axe.
'"Formalisms based on ABSTRACTION are problematic whenwe attempt o deal with lexical fields where there are noclear criteria for whether a word applies.
This includes thenaming of simple objects, such as "cup" and "bowl"(Labov, 1973), as well as the more obvious areas ofmetaphor.
On the other hand, alternatives, such asPROTOTYPE systems based on MUTUAL relations havebeen far less developed in the details of the generalizationsthey allow, and the specification of how they would dealwith any specific semantic domains.It is clear that no formalism at this point has a claim to"Anything you can do, I can do better."
Intuitions as towhich aspects of language are most central play theleading role in determining which of the competingtheories seems most promising.Canonical form and its effects on memory and reasoning.In early work on semantic primitives, there was a gooddeal of debate about the advantages provided by acanonical form for the representation of meaning.
Twowords or sentences with the same meaning have identicalsemantic representations in a formalism based oncanonical form.
In other formalisms, they may have equi-valent representations (anything inferrable from one wouldbe inferred from the other) which nevertheless differ inform.
Typically, PRIMITIVE systems tend to support acanonical form, while MUTUAL organizations do not.However, DISTINGUISHED subsystems can be used to cre-ate a canonical form for their particular aspect of meaningin a system which does not depend on primitives.
Bychoosing to always expand into the terms of this subsystemin the same way, all of the properties of  canc fical formapply.In evaluating the benefits of canonical form, it isimportant to take into account he procedural aspects.
Inits simplest usage, each piece of input text is convertedimmediately to canonical form and stored that way.Inferences are based on the elements of  this expandedform, and memory search depends on finding the formcorresponding to the query as a subset of  what is stored.In a more sophisticated use, the canonical form is availablefor potential expansion, but memory can include unex-panded structures built up out of a vocabulary of non-primitive semantic entities.
Expansion is done only whenneeded for a specific task such as matching a new input toprevious knowledge in answering a question.
Theadvantages and disadvantages of canonical form aresomewhat different for these two organizations.
Theprimary ones can be summarized:1.
Absence of ambiguity and vagueness.
This propertyapplies to the canonical form after expansion.
It is aglobal property of systems based on expansion atinput--since meanings are expanded into canonical struc-tures of primitives at the time they are analyzed, there isno remaining uncertainty about their meaning.
This isviewed as an advantage by those who emphasize the use ofthe formalism in abstract reasoning, and as a disadvantageby those (like Martin, 1976) who emphasize the impor-tance of context and interpretation i using knowledge.Martin argues that a semantic representation for naturallanguage must share its ability to represent imprecisemeanings.2.
Reasoning activity at input time.
The process ofexpansion to canonical form can be used as a proceduraldriver for carrying out inference.
Much of the work onconceptual dependency makes use of this organization.The advantage is a unitorm way o!
tnggenng stanOarclinferences.
The disadvantages come from the problems oftriggering too much----of drawing inferences far below thelevel of detail relevant o the particular context becausethe canonical form demands expansion to that level.3.
Uniqueness for indexing and search.
A canonical formcan be stored and indexed in a uniform way which makesit possible to use straightforward algorithms for memorysearch and consistency checking.
These have theadvantages and disadvantages of most uniform proceduresfor dealing with complex structures--they are easy to writeand understand, but they suffer from combinatoriallyexplosive inefficiency and tend to bog down for all buttiny toy bodies of knowledge.
One of the fundamentaltechnical differences among existing systems is in whetherthey emphasize uniformity (as in most logic-based systems,and in early versions of conceptual dependency) or the31provision of explicit tools for controlling memory searchand inference (as in KRL).4.
Association of inference rules with primitive elements.In a system which is expected to expand meanings intocanonical form (either at input time or in the process ofreasoning), inference rules can be associated with the mostgeneral primitives (e.g.
GO, used in a sense which coversall sorts of change, as in Jackendoff (1976)).
In a systemwhich does not expand to a common base, the sameinference might have to be repeated in a number of places.The disadvantage arises in the case where an inference isassociated with a higher-level meaning (such as "flee"having implications not shared by other instances ofgoing).
In a fully canonical system, it is necessary torecognize the particular combination of primitives whichtriggers the inference.
In systems like that of Rieger(1975), there are discrimination nets, used to sort out theappropriate inferences from the expanded forms.
Thisagain leads to a combinatorial problem which becomesuntenable in all but the smallest systems.
Like the otherissues, this one is complicated by the ability to buildsystems which partake of canonical expansion to somedegree, either by expanding only along certain dimensions,or by operating with a mixture of expanded forms andnon-primitive-based forms from which they were derived.Possibilities for dealing with extended meaning andmetaphor.
A recurring theme in discussions of semanticsis that of metaphor.
Any reahstic view of language musttake into account the fact that words are used in wayswhich defy simple analytic characterization of theirmeaning.
There are explicitly poetic metaphors, conven-tional metaphors ("His ideas were beyond me", "Carternamed three _nain targets in his war on inflation"), and awide range of cases in which meanings are extendedbeyond their prototypical application.
For example, if wedefine "spend" in terms of a commercial transaction, thenit must be extended to deal with "I spent a week inBoston."
In general, formal semantic theories have notgone very far in dealing with these problems.
Those whobase systems on PROTOTYPE or EXEMPLAR reasoningargue that this is an important step towards dealing withthe fuzzier aspects of language.
However, the compu-tational details needed to make the power of such systemsclear have not been filled in.
They either stick to trivialcases (as in Moore and Newell, 1973), or operate in wayswhich do not depend on going beyond standard logicalmeaning.
This area remains one of the most tantalizingand difficult for future research.REFERENCESBerlin, B. and P. Kay, Basic color terms: their universality andevolution, Berkeley: Univ.
of California Press, 1969.Bobrow, D.G.
and T. Winograd, An ove~iew of KRL, a KnowledgeRepresentation Language, Cognitive Science 1:1 (January, 1977), 3-46Bobrow, D.G., T. Winograd, and the KRL Research Group,Experience with KRL-0: One cycle of a knowledge representationlanguage, Proceedings of the Fifth International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence (August, 1977), 213-222.Clark, H.H., and E.V.
Clark, Psychology of Language: An.h+troduction to Psycholinguistics, New York: Harcourt Brace, 1977.Dreyfus, H. L., What computers can't do: a critique of artificialreason, New York: Harper & Row, 1972.Fillmore, C., The case for case, In Bach and Harms (Eds.
), Universalsin Linguistic Theory, Chicago: Holt, 1968, 1-90.Fillmore, C., The future of Semantics, Berkeley Studies in Syntaxand Semantics I, Dept.
of Linguistics, Univ.
of California Berkeley,1974.Fillmore, C., An Alternative to Checklist Theories of Meaning,Proceedings of the First Annual Meeting of the Berkeley LinguisticsSociety, Cogen et al (Eds.
), University of California, Berkeley, 1975.Fodor, J.A., The Language of Thought, New York: Cromwell, 1975.Fodor.
J.A., Methodological solipsism as a research strategy inpsychology, unpublished raft, 1978.Jackendoff, R., Toward an explanatory semantic representation,Linguistic Inquiry 7:1 (Winter, 1976) 89-150.Katz, J.J,, Semantic Theory, New York: Harper and Row, 1972.Katz, J.J., and J.A.
Fodor, The Structure of a Semantic Theory, in J.Fodor and J. Katz, (eds.)
The Structure of Language, Prentice Hall,1964.Labov, W., The boundaries of words and their meanings, in C-J.
N.Bailey and Roger Shuy (eds.
), New Ways of Analyzing Variation inEnglish, Georgetown Univ., 1973.Lakoff, G., Linguistic Gestalts, Proceedings of the Chicago LinguisticSociety (CLS 13).
1977, 236-287.Leech, G., Towards a semantic description of English, London:Longman, 1969.Lewis, D., General semantics, in Davidson and Harman (eds.
),Semantics of Natural Language, Dordrecht: Reidel , 1972.Martin, W.A., A theory of English grammar, unpublished notes,MIT, 1976.Miller, G.A., Some psychological studies of grammar, AmericanPsychologist 17 (1962), 748-762.Miller, G.A., and P.N.
Johnson-Laird, Language and Perception,Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1976.Moore J., and NeweU.
A., How can MERLIN understand?, InGregg (Ed.
), Knowledge and Cognition, Baltimore, Md.
: LawrenceErlbaum Associates, 1973.Rieger, C., Conceptual memory and inference, in R.C.
Schank,Conceptual Information Processing, Amsterdam: North Holland,1975, 157-288.Schank, R. C., Conceptual dependency: A theory of naturallanguage understanding, Cognitive Psychology, 1972, 552-631.Schank, R.C.
and R.P.
Abelson,, Scripts Plans Goals andUnderstanding, Hillsdale: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1977.Szolovits, P., L.B.
Hawkinson, and W.A.
Martin, An Overview ofOWL, an language for knowledge representation, M.I.T.
LCS-TM-86,1977,Wilks, Y., Good and bad arguments about semantic primitives,D.A.I.
Research Report No.
42, University of Essex, May 1977.Winograd, T., Towards a Procedural Understanding of Semantics,Revue lnternationale de Philosophie, 1976 fasc.
3-4 (117-118).32
