1 Reference DiariesHerbert H. ClarkandCatherine MarshallStanford UniversityWhen we make a definite reference to a thing,we normally make sure that our audience "shares"with us certain knowledge about that thing.
Torefer to a woman as she, the woman, or Nancy, weusually have good evidence that our audience knowsabout her too.
But exactly what "shared" knowledgeis required?
This question is critical if we areever to discover how people make or interpret def-inite reference--how they represent knowledge inmemory and consult it in uttering and interpretingexpressions like she, the woman, or Nancy.
The ques-tion is critical if we are ever to characterizethe mental archive people have for storing thefacts they need to know for definite reference.We will argue that this archive has to be anotherdetailed diary, or reference diary, supplementedby atlases, histories, and certain other referencetexts.
To make this argument, and to see what goesinto the archive, we will examine the prior ques-tion, What "shared" knowledge is required for def-inite reference?
As it happens, this questionleads directly to a puzzle we will call the mutualknowledge paradox.
It is in the solution of thispuzzle that we get our best clues as to what thereference diary must be like.The Mutual Knowledge ParadoxImagine that there is a Marx brothers retro-spective on at the local theater for which thereare two or three movies a night for several even-ings.
Against this background consider the fol-lowing scenario:Version i.
On Wednesday night Ann and Bobgo to see Monkey Business.
The next morn-ing Ann meets Bob and asks, "what did youthink of the movie?
"What we are interested in is Ann's definite ref-erence the movie, which she intends to refer toMonkey Business.
What facts does Ann have toassure herself of before she can felicitouslymake this reference?
Our interest here is in onlythose facts that are involved in "shared" knowl-edge.
As a first condition, for example, Ann mustherself have a certain awareness of Monkey Busi-ness.. For now we will express that awareness as"knowing about R" (where R stands for the referentMonkey Business).
Thus one fact Ann must assureherself of is this:(i) Ann knows about R.But is this enough?
Of course not, for (i)provides no assurance that Bob knows about MonkeyBusiness.
The way it fails can Be made clear ina variation on the original scenario that goes likethis:Version 2: On Wednesday night Ann and Bob goto see Monkey Business, but neither knowsthat the other went too.
The next morningAnn meets Bob and asks, "What did you thinkof the movie?
"Although version 2 satisfies condition (i), Annhas clearly made her definite reference without theright assurances.
If (I) were all that had to besatisfied, version 2 would lead to a felicitousdefinite reference.
Since it does not, we mustadd another condition, and the obvious one is thatAnn must also assure herself that Bob knows aboutthe movie, condition (2):(2) Ann knows that Bob knows about R.(If it seems too strong to require knowledge in-stead of belief, each know can be replaced bybelieve; without legislating on the argument, wewill stick with know).At first, conditions (i) and (2) together seemenough, but it is easy to show that they are not.Consider this version of the original scenario:Version 3: On Wednesday night Ann goes to seeMonkey Busine@s , and there she sees Bob.But he doesn't see her, and she realizesthis.
Furthermore, she realizes that Bob,unlike herself, might have seen A Day at theRaces and A Night at the Opera, which arealso showing that night.
The next morningAnn meets Bob and asks, "What did you thinkof the movie?
"Although Ann has satisfied conditions (i) and (2)--she knows about Monkey Business and she knows thatBob knows about Monkey Business--she has not yetassured herself of enough.
She cannot be sure Bobwon't take the movie as referring to A Day at theRaces or A Night at the Opera or even some othermovie.
Why?
Because he couldn't be sure, uniquely,which movie she had in mind that he knew about.Bob must know not only about Monkey Business, butalso that Ann knows about Monkey Business.
Atleast, this is something Ann must try to assureherself of.
This leads directly to the next57condition:(3) Ann knows that Bob knows that Ann knowsabout R.With condition (3) we must surely have strongenough conditions for the success of Ann's definitereference.
But that isn't so, as we can show instill another variation on the original scenario:Version 4: On Wednesday night Ann goes to seeMonkey Business, and there she sees Bob.
Asshe walks down the aisle, she notices thathe sees her, but as she is about to wave heturns and moves to another part of thetheater.
So she does not believe that herealizes that she has seen him.
The nextmorning Ann meets Bob and asks, "what didyou think of the movie?
"This version satisfies conditions (i), (2), and (3).Ann knows about Monkey Business; she knows thatBob knows about it; and she knows that he knowsthat she knows about it.
But Ann doesn't believethat he knows that she knows that he knows aboutit.
This piece of negative knowledge should beenough to keep Ann from using her definite ref-erence.
What if Bob had gone to A Day at theRaces and A Night at the Opera too?, she shouldask herself.
He might think that while he is sureshe didn't see him at Monkey Business, she mighthave seen him at one of the other two.
If so, shemight be referring to one of the other two.
Hecouldn't be sure.
According to Ann's reasoning,therefore, she must assure herself of somethingmore--that Bob realizes that Ann realizes that hehad been to see Monkey Business.
That is, she mustsatisfy the following condition too:(4) Ann knows that Bob knows that Ann knowsthat Bob knows about R.With condition (4) it looks as if we have gonefar enough (see Kempson, 1975, p. 165; Stalnaker,1977, p. 137), but can we be sure?
Only if we can-not dream up another variation that satisfies con-ditions (i) through (4) but still doesn't work.Indeed, with a little difficulty, we can:Version 5: On Wednesday night Ann goes to seeMonkey Business and there she sees Bob andCharles.
Because she sits down a few rowsin front of them, she believes that theysee her there, but because she doesn'tturn around while they are there, she be-lieves that they don't realize that she hasrealized that they have seen her there.
Onthe way home, however, she meets Charles,who tells her that Bob did realize that shehad seen them there, but because she hadn'twaved at them, Bob was certain that shedidn't realize that they had seen hernotice that they were there too.
The nextmorning Ann meets Bob and asks him, "Whatdid you think of the movie?
"Complicated as this version is, we realize thatAnn in good conscience shouldn't have made thisdefinite reference.
Although conditions (i)through (4) are all satisfied, Ann should have con-sidered this possible reasoning on Bob's part.What if Bob had seen A Day at the Races andNight at the Opera too.
He might think that shehad seen him at, say, A Day at the Races and thatshe thought he had seen her there too, even thoughhe hadn't.
He would then have reason to think shewas referring to A Day at the Races, since to havereferred to Monkey Business she would have beensure that he knew that she knew that he knew thatshe was there (Bob's equivalent to condition (4)).So despite all of the conditions she has alreadyassured herself of, she must add one more:(5) Ann knows that Bob knows that Ann knowsthat Bob knows that Ann knows about R.Is condition (5) enough?
Hardly.
What theseversions show is that there is a way in principleof demonstrating that the last piece of iteratedknowledge is insufficient.
The method is this.Corresponding to Ann's condition (i) is an analo-gous condition that Bob must assure himself of ifhe is to uniquely identify the referent for Ann'sdefinite reference, and it is this:(i') Bob knows about R.For Ann to be sure that her reference goes through,she must put herself in Bob's shoes, reason as Bobwould, and make sure that he would identify theintended referent uniquely.
What we did in con-structing version 2 was create a scenario in which(1) and (i') held, but Ann couldn't know that (i')held.
This led us to add condition (2), Ann knowsthat Bob knows about R, the equivalent of Annknows that (i').
But just as Ann needs to assureherself of (2), Bob needs to assure himself of(2'):(2') Bob knows that Ann knows about R.But then (2') is something else Ann needs to know,as we showed in creating version 3 of our scenario,and this led to condition (3).
Corresponding to(3), however, is Bob's (3'), which we used in creat-ing version 4.
In principle, we could use thisprocedure to construct countermanding versions adinfinitum.The successive versions and the conditions theygive rise to eventually become absurdly compl icate~but they do bring out a general point.
In princi-ple, one must satisfy oneself of an infinite num-ber of conditions either to make or to interpreta definite reference.
Hence the mutual knowledgeparadox.
If each condition takes a finite amountof time to check, no matter how small, and if thesechecks cannot all be made in parallel, then makingor interpreting a definite reference like themovie should take an infinite amount of time.Mutual KnowledgeIn common parlance, "shared knowledge" has sev-eral definitions.
Ask your aunt what it means forthe two of you to share knowledge that the mayoris an embezzler, andshe  would probably say, "Itmeans that you know he is an embezzler, and that Ido too."
If we express the proposition that themayor is an embezzler as ~, then the first defini-tion of shared knowledge comes out like this:58A and B share I knowledge that p =def.
heuristics.
(1) A knows that p.(i') B knows that p.However, she might give you a more complicatedanswer: "It means that both of us know that he isan embezzler, and furthermore, I know that you knowhe is, and you know that I know he is."
This leadsus to a second definition of shared knowledge:A and B share 2 knowledge that p =def.
(1) A knows that p.(l') B knows that p.(2) A knows that B knows that p.(2') B knows that A knows that p.Indeed, we can define a series of types of "shared"knowledge merely by extending the list of state-ments.
None of these finite definitions, ofcourse, describes the "shared" knowledge requiredof Ann and Bob in her reference to Monkey Business.For that we need something more.What is required, apparently, is the technicalnotion of mutual knowledge.
It has been definedand exploited by Lewis (1969) and Schiffer (1972)for dealing with close cousins of the problem wehave raised here.
Mutual knowledge is Schiffer'sterm, while Lewis' term for the same thing is com-mon knowledge.
We have opted for Schiffer's termsince it seems more transparent and less open tomisinterpretation.
In any case, mutual knowledgeis defined as follows:A and B mutually know that p =def.
(i) A knows that p.(l') B knows that p.(2) A knows that B knows that p.(2') B knows that A knows that p.(3) A knows that B knows that A knows that p.(3') B knows that A knows that B knows that p.et cetera ad infinitum.Heuristics for Assessing Mutual KnowledgeSo far two conclusions seem firm.
First, defi-nite reference requires a certain amount of mutualknowledge.
Other simpler notions of "shared"knowledge will not do.
Second, it is unthinkablethat speakers and listeners assess mutual knowledgeby working serially, statement by statement,through the infinity of statements that make upmutual knowledge.
But they surely assess it some-how, as the first conclusion seems to require.
Theinevitable conclusion is that they use some sort ofheuristics.
We will consider two families of suchheuristics--truncation heuristics and co-presenceTruncation HeuristicsThe stickler in assessing mutual knowledgestatements is that there is an infinity of suchstatements, and that is too many to check.
What ifpeople checked only a few of them--like the firstfour?
The task could then be carried out in a fin-ite, even short, amount of time.
There would beerrors, of course, but they would probably beneither very serious nor very frequent.
If Annhas verified the statement (4), Ann knows that Bobknows that Ann knows that Bob knows that p, it isextremely likely, on actuarial grounds, that thehigher order statements would check out too.
Andwhen she does make an error, Bob will often lookpuzzled or ask for clarification, which will allowher to repair her reference.
Indeed, repairs arequite frequent in spontaneous speech as if speakersmight be doing just that.
So people could assessonly a truncated part of mutual knowledge.
Heuris-tics of this kind will be called truncation heuris-tics.Are these heuristics plausible as the waypeople normally assess mutual knowledge?
Webelieve not.
Our doubts lie in two areas.
First,it is not easy to deal with statements as compli-cated as (4).
It is implausible that people checkthese statements per se.
Second, the evidenceneeded to verify such statements anyway suggests aradically different family of heuristics.In version 4 of our movie scenario, Ann didn'tbelieve that Bob knew that she knew that he knewabout Monkey Business, a violation of knowledgestatement (4).
Version 4 is complicated.
Not onlydid we have a hard time creating it, but peoplehave a hard time grasping it, for it is difficultto keep track of who knows what.
Statements like(4) are difficult not because of their syntacticform, but because they describe reciprocal rela-tions between two people.
Whereas John Dean knewthat Nixon knew that Haldeman knew that Magruderknew that McCord had burgled O'Brien's office isfairly comprehensible, John Dean knew that Nixonknew that John Dean knew that Nixon knew thatMcCord had burgled O'Brien's office is not.Although when we need to we can figure out fourthorder reciprocal relations--not just the statementsthemselves, it seems highly implausible that we doso routinely.But what counts as evidence for the truth ofstatements like (i), (2), (3), and (4)?
Takestatement (3), Ann knows that Bob knows that Annknows about R. Obviously, Ann won't have thisstatement per se already stored in memory.
Shedoesn!t go through life creating statements likethis for every object she or anyone else might wantto refer to.
Rather, what she needs to verify (3)is a piece of evidence from which she can deduc-tively or inductively infer it.
Imagine that sheand Bob had gone to Monkey Business together.
Itis hard to think of better evidence than this thatshe could appeal to for the truth of (3).
Ofcourse, the inductive rules by which she infers (3)from this evidence need to be spelled out, butthat doesn't sound impossible.59The fact that Ann and Bob saw the movie together,however, is more useful evidence even than that.It is also about the best evidence we could imaginefor the truth of (1), and of (2), and of (4), andso on ad infinitum.
It is a piece of evidencethat allows Ann, in one quick jump, to be sure ofthe truth of all the statements.
Why, then, wouldshe want to check the statements one by one--evena truncated list of them?
She would be better offlooking for that single piece of evidence thatcould in principle confirm them all.
Indeed, thatis the foundation assumption of the next family ofheuristics we will take up, the co-presence heuris-tics.Consider the following strategy.
When peoplemake or interpret a definite reference, they tryto assure themselves of mutual knowledge of thereferent by searching for evidence of what we wil lcall triple co-presence.
This is evidence of aparticular event in which the speaker, listener,and referent are "co-present," i.e., are "present"simultaneously, as when Ann, Bob, and Monkey Busi-ness are openly "present" together on Wednesdaynight.
Strategies like this will be called co-presence heuristics.
To see how they are reason-able, we will look at first principles.When Lewis and Schiffer hit on the notion ofmutual knowledge, both recognized the need for afinite means of handling the infinity of state-ments.
Their solutions were essentially the same.If A and B make certain assumptions about eachother's rationality, they can use certain kinds ofevidence, or states of affairs, to infer that eachone of the infinite number of statements in mutualknowledge is true.
But how?
We get some hintsfrom a concrete il lustration of mutual knowledgedevised by Schiffer.The scene: Ann and Bob are sitting across atable from each other, and there is a singlecandle between them.
Both are looking at thecandle, and both see the other looking at it too.The proposition ~ is that there is a candle on thetable.
Consider the scene from Ann's point ofview.
Clearly, she has direct evidence for thetruth of (i):(i) Ann knows that p.But she also sees that Bob has his eyes open andis looking simultaneously at her and the candle.That is, she has evidence that she and Bob arelooking at each other and the candle simultaneously.We will call this the simultaneity assumption.Indeed, she assumes that he is not only looking ather and the candle, but also attending to them.We will call this the attention assumption.Finally, she assumes that Bob is normal and in hershoes he would be drawing the same conclusionsshe is.
We wil l  call this the rationality assump-tion.
But if Bob is attending to the candle andis rational, he has evidence for (i'):(i') Bob knows that p.This, however, is Ann's conclusion, and so she hasevidence for (2):(2) ANn knows that Bob knows that p.But if Bob is rational, he will be drawing theinference that corresponds to hers--his equivalentof (2)--namely (2'):(2') Bob knows that Ann knows that p.Once again, this is Ann's conclusion, and so shehas evidence for (3):(3) Ann knows that Bob knows that Ann knowsthat p.In like fashion, Ann would be justified in iterat-ing this process through the remaining knowledgestatements (4) through infinity, and Bob would bejustified in doing the same for his.So Ann has reason to b~lieve that she and Bobmutually know that there is a candle on the table.First, there is the "direct" evidence.
Shedirectly perceives that there is a candle o~ thetable and that Bob is simultaneously looking atboth her and the candle.
Second, there are herassumptions about the situation.
She assumes thatBob is consciously attending to her and the candle,that he is doing so at the same time she is, andthat he is rational.
The upshot is that she hasno reason to believe that she couldn't confirm theknowledge statements as far down the list as shewanted to go.
She is therefore justified in claim-ing mutual knowledge.
Indeed, since nothing shedoesn't know herself can be mutual knowledge, andsince she can assume Bob is chronically rational,all she needs to do normally is search for evidenceOf her and Bob simultaneously attending to eachother and the candle on the table.
With this wehave the essence of the co-presence heuristics:To assess mutual knowledge, people search for evi-dence of triple co-presence--an event in which Aand B are simultaneously attending to each othernoting the same evidence for p. In equation form:Co-presence + Assumptions = Mutual knowledgeThe co-presence heuristics both solve themutual knowledge paradox and make intuitive sense.When we assure ourselves of mutual knowledge, it isunlikely that we check for a series of pieces ofevidence, even as few as the truncation heuristicsmight let us get away with.
More likely, we checkfor a single piece of evidence of just the rightkind.
The candle example suggests that what wecheck for is evidence of triple co-presence.Varieties of Triple Co-presenceThere are many different kinds of evidencepeople may use for the triple co-presence of thespeaker, listener, and referent.
Some of theseconstitute strong evidence for triple co-presence,and others constitute weak evidence.
That is,some kinds rightly give people a lot of confidencethat the referent is mutually known, whereas otherkinds do not.
As reflected in our equation, thereis a trade-off between the evidence and the assump-tions.
The stronger the evidence is, the fewerassumptions are needed to infer mutual knowledge.Conversely, the fewer assumptions that are needed,the stronger the evidence is considered to be.
Thestrongest evidence requires the fewest, or weakest,assumptions.60The cornerstone of our argument is this.
Theprototypical kind of evidence for mutual knowledgeis physical co-presence, very much as illustratedin Schiffer's candle example.
It is the strongestpossible evidence, the one requiring the fewestauxiliary assumptions, and all other kinds areweaker in one way or another.
What follows is atentative classification of these varieties oftriple co-presence.i?
Physical co-presence.
Ann, Bob, and thecandle are an example par excellence of physicalco-presence.
Not only are the three of them phys-ically present together, but Ann can readilyassume that Bob is attending to this fact, is doingso at the same time she is, and is rational.
Allthree auxiliary assumptions are necessary.
If shebelieved Bob was catatonic, or hypnotized theright way, or very near-sighted, for example, shewouldn't want to assume physical co-presence.Once Ann has assured herself of the direct evidenceand these assumptions, she is warranted in infer-ring mutual knowledge of the candle and can referto it as the candle.There are two distinct types of physical co-presence.
Ann may refer to the candle while it isstill physically co-present with them, as in Thecandle is romantic~ isn't it?
Or she may refer tothe candle some time after it has been co-presentwith them, as in The candle was romantic~ wasn'tit?
These two types could be called immediateand delayed physical co-presence.
The first kind,on the face of it, is the stronger evidence.
Whenphysical co-presence is synchronous with the def-inite reference, Ann can be sure that she and Bobmutually know about the candle at the time she isreferring to it.
She doesn't have to count onBob's remembering the past incident of physicalco-presence, as she does in the delayed kind.The assumptions Ann would need in order to in-fer mutual knowledge from immediate physical co-presence are these: simultaneity, attention, andrationality.
She would need an additional one forthe delayed case: simultaneity, attention,rationality, and memory.
Simultaneity, attention,and rationality refer to the assumptions we havedescribed earlier.
Memory refers to the addi-tional assumption for delayed physical co-presence: Ann must assume that Bob can and willrecall the earlier incident of their physical co-presence.
So far so good.
The stronger the evi-dence, the fewer assumptions Ann needs in order tomake her definite reference, l~ed ia te  physicalco-presence has one fewer requirement than delayedphysical co-presence.2.
Linguistic co-presence.
Many things werefer to have never been physically co-present.They are often things we or someone else has men-tioned in conversation.
Imagine Ann saying to BobI bought a candle yesterday.
Her utterance ofcandle is a locutionary act that posits for Bob theexistence of a particular candle in the real world.If Bob hears and understands a candle correctly,he knows about the candle's existence at the verysame time as she posits it.
It is as if Ann hasplaced the candle on the stage before the two ofthem so that it would be physically co-present.So when Ann utters a candle and Bob simultaneouslyunderstands it, the two of them can be said to bein the linguistic co-presence of the candle.
OnceAnn has established this, of course, she can makea definite reference to it, as in The candle costme plenty.Linguistic co-presence is weaker evidence formutual knowledge than physical co-presence.
Seeingis believing--hearing about something isn't.
Tobegin with, linguistic co-presence requires theassumptions of simultaneity, attention, and ration-l ality.
Ann and Bob must be attending to Ann's utterance of a candle simultaneously, and both must be ration--a~.
~d like delayed physical co-presence, linguistic co-presence requires memory.For Ann to refer to the candle, she has to counton Bob's recalling the earlier incident of linguis-'tic co-presence with her uttering of a candle.But there is an additional assumption we will callunderstandability.
Ann must assume that Bob willpenetrate her indefinite reference, a candle, andunderstand that she is sincerely positing thecandle's existence.
She must assume that Bobunderstands her, and he must assume that she be-lieves he does.3.
Indirect co-presence.
Imagine Ann sayingto Bob I bought a candle yesterday; the wick ismade of cotton.
In uttering a candle Ann hasestablished the linguistic co-presence of him, her,and the candle, but not of him, her, and the wick.How, then, can she refer to the wick?
She has toassume that when Bob accepts the existence of thecandle, he will also accept the existence of itswick.
This way, by uttering a candle, Ann hasestablished what we will call the indirect co-presence of her, Bob, and the wick.The  inferences required in indirect co-presenceare often much stronger than those needed for wick(see Clark, 1977; Clark & Haviland, 1977).
Anncan refer to something that is only likely tobe associated with a thing she has already estab-lished, or even only possibly associated with it.She can tell Bob: I bought a candle yesterday~but the wrapper was torn; or I bought a candle yes-terday, and the bayberry smelled great.
Candlesdon't necessarily come in wrappers nor are theyoften made of bayberries, yet these are parts sheexpects Bob to infer on the basis of her definitereferences to them.
So what is established may beonly the likelihood or possibility of a thing beingco-present with the speaker and listener.
Itscertain existence is established only with the def-inite reference itself.Indirect co-presence is parasitic.
It has tobe established via some other type of co-presence--for example, physical or linguistic co-presence.Before Ann can say The price was $3 of a candle,she must already have established the candle'sco-presence.
She and Bob could be looking at it,for physical co-presence, or she could have justmentioned it, for linguistic co-presence.
For themoment we will assume that indirect co-presenceis always established via either physical or lin-guistic co-presence.There is both a strong and a weak case of in-direct co-presence.
Instead of saying The pricewas $3, Ann could have said The price of the candle61was $3, providing a much more certain reference.She would have made it explicit that the pricereferred to is that of the candle and not ofsomething else.
Bob would then have had no troubleinferring that there was one and only one priceassociated with the candle.
They both could thenassume that they mutually knew about the price.This case may be so direct that it ought to beplaced in a separate category.
For now we willtreat it as a very strong kind of indirect co-presence.To infer mutual knowledge from indirect co-presence, Ann and Bob need all the assumptionsof physical or linguistic co-presence, whicheveris the parasite's host, plus one we will callassociativity.
They have to assume that each otheris capable of entertaining the certainty, likeli-hood, or possibility of a particular part or rolebeing associated with the thing whose co-presencehas already been established.
The hierarchy stillworks as expected.
Indirect co-presence, becauseof its added assumption, is weaker evidence formutual knowledge than either physical or linguisticco-presence.4.
Cultural co-presence.
Even when Ann is notacquainted with Bob, she can assume there are par-ticulars the two of them mutually know.
The basicidea is that there are things everyone in a cul-tu reknows  about.
She reads newspapers, and sodoes everyone else in her culture.
So Bob and shecan mutually assume that they both read newspapers.Ann can then take the fact that John Dean, MichaelDoonesbury, and Billy Jean King have been promi-nently mentioned in the newspaper as good evidencethat she and Bob mutually know about these people.This is an instance of what we will call culturalco-presence.
Certain particulars are assumed tobe universally known in a cultural mil ieu--theyare culturally co-present for everyone in it--and that is taken as evidence that everyone in themilieu knows about them.The trick, of course, is to judge cultural mil-ieus.
Ann may think that she and Bob mutuallyrealize that they are both high school graduates,or drug dealers, or nineteenth century historybuffs, or New Yorkers, or telephone operators, orsome combination of these, and her assumptionsabout cultural co-presence will change accordingly.If her assessments are accurate, her definitereference is likely to succeed, and if not, itisn't.Cultural co-presence doesn't appear to belongto the same hierarchy as the previous three typesof co-presence.
For one thing, it is relativelypermanent, whereas the other three are relativelytransitory.
Culturally known particulars taketime to become familiar and to lose familiarity.Teddy Roosevelt is familiar to Americans today,just as he was 75 years ago.
Particulars known byphysical, linguistic, or indirect co-presence haveonly fleeting familiarity and then only to specificpairs of people.
Mutual knowledge about theseparticulars is easily established, but also easilylost.
For another thing, cultural co-presence isparasitic on other forms of mutual knowledge.
ForANn to establish that she and Bob mutually knowthat they belong to the same cultural subgroup,she must find evidence of triple co-presence ofthat fact.
She might establish it, for example,through linguistic co-presence, as in, What do youknow--we're both New Yorkers.To infer mutual knowledge from cultural co-presence, therefore, people need assumptions thatare not comparable with those of the other threetypes.
Take Ann's reference to Hoover Tower in aconversation with Bob.
First, she must assumethat she and Bob mutually know that they belongto a particular cultural subgroup, say StanfordUniversity students.
We will call this assumptioncultural membership.
How Ann justifies thisassumption, however, will not be simple.
Likeother types of mutual knowledge, it must be basedon evidence of some kind of co-presence.
Second,she must assume that virtually everyone in thiscultural milieu takes it for granted that they allknow about Hoover Tower.
We will call this assump-tion universality of knowledge.
The paucity ofthese assumptions should not fool us into thinkingthat cultural co-presence is strong, for they hidea tangle of complex justifications based on otherpieces of evidence and other assumptions.
It isbest to treat cultural co-presence as incommensu-rate with the other three.With cultural co-presence we have come to thelast of the major kinds of co-presence.
Not everykind of evidence for mutual knowledge, however,can be neatly classified as one of these fourtypes.
Some appear to require a complex comhina-tion of them, and not surprisingly, they provideintuitively weaker evidence for mutual knowledge.Reference DiariesIf people assess mutual knowledge via tripleco-presence, they must have a memory full of factsabout triple co-presence.
What do these factslook like?
How are they represented?
How arethey assessed?
If mutual knowledge is criticalto definite reference--as we have suggested--thenquestions like these ought to be central to anytheory of speaking, listening, or memory.
Indeed,the arguments we have offered lead to a rather pro-vocative conception of memory representation andmemory search.
It is provocative in that some ofits critical properties are absent from most cur-rent models of comprehension and memory.Most investigators have assumed that in pro-cessing definite reference people search memoryfor the particulars actually referred to.
TakeAnn's reference to Monkey Business.
On bearingthis Bob would search memory for a referentialindex to the intended referent M0nkey Business.This index is a stand-in, so to speak, for themovie itself.
Although the current models ofcomprehension differ in their specifics, virtuallyall of them assume this kind of search for theintended referent.
That includes Anderson (1976),Clark and Haviland (1977), Kintsch (1974), Rumel-hart, Lindsay, and Norman (1972), Schank andAbelson (1977), and Winograd (1972), to name justa few.But if people use some kind of co-presenceheuristics, then all of these models are incor-rect--or at least incomplete.
The point is that62Bob cannot search memory for the referent alone.That would hardly guarantee that it was mutuallyknown to him and Ann, as it must be for her refer-ence to be legitimate.
Rather, he must search foran event that involves not only the referent butalso Ann and him.
That is, it must be an event oftriple co-presence--of physical, linguistic,indirect, or cultural co-presence, or of some com-bination of these four types.
In none of the cur-rent models Just mentioned does the listener searchfor such an event.Previous models of comprehension have treatedsearch through memory as if it were a searchthrough a telephone book.
In a definite referencelike the man in the red shirt we are told the nameand address of the individual we want to get holdof.
Our task is to search the telephone book forhis number, our direct connection to him, his ref-erential index.
With the co-presence heuristics,memory must be more like a diary, more like thepersonal log Nixon kept of everything he did andexperienced during his years at the White House.As before, in the man in the red shirt we are toldthe name and address of the individual we want toget hold of.
But to find him we must search ourdiary for an entry that provides evidence of theco-presence of the speaker (say, Gertrude), us,and an individual of that description.
The diaryentry must show that we were physically or linguis-tically co-present, or that we were co-present insome other sense.
That is, we must search in everycase for an event.
This is far more complicatedthan searching the telephone book, with or withoutyellow pages, for the right number.The diary, of course, cannot be used alone.
Wealso need histories and atlases to refer to JohnDean, the Second World War, the decline and fallof the Roman Empire, and China, particulars thatare culturally co-present.
And for indirect co-presence we will also need texts on science, med-icine, engineering, and law.
To know that candleshave wicks we need to look up facts about theengineering of candles.What we need, in summary, is a diary of the sig-nificant events in our own personal experience,supplemented by cultural histories and atlasesfor cultural co-presence and by various referencetexts for indirect co-presence.
Such a diary con-tains a record of the events we will need forassessing co-presence.
Anything less than a diarywill be too little.FootnoteiThis paper is an abbreviated version of"Definite reference and mutual knowledge," pre-sented at the Sloan Workshop on ComputationalAspects of Linguistic Structure and DiscourseSetting, University of Pennsylvania, May 1978.We thank Eve V. Clark for her helpful comments onthe manuscript.ReferencesAnderson, J.R.
Language, memory and thought.Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum, 1976.Clark, H. H., & Haviland, S. E. Comprehensionand the given-new contract.
In R. O.
Freedle(Ed.
), Discourse production and comprehension.Norwood, N.J.: Ablex Publishing, 1977, pp.
1-40.Clark, H. H. Inferences in comprehension.
In D.LaBerge & S. J. Samuels (Eds.
), Basic processesin reading: Perception and comprehension.Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum, 1977.Clark, H. H., & Marshall, C. Definite referenceand mutual knowledge.
Paper presented at theSloan Workshop on Computational Aspects ofLinguistic Structure and Discourse Setting,University of Pennsylvania, May 1978.Kempson, R. M. Presupposition and the delimitationof semantics.
Cambridge: Cambridge UniversityPress, 1975.Kintsch, W. The representation of meaning in mem-ory.
Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum, 1974.Lewis, D. K. Convention: A philosophical study.Cambridge, Mass.
: Harvard University Press,1969.Rumelhart, D. E., Lindsay, P. H., & Norman, D. A.A process model for long-term memory.
In E.Tulving & W. Donaldson (Eds.
), Organizationof memory.
New York: Academic Press, 1972,pp.
197-246.Schank, R., & Abelson, R. Scripts, plans, goalsand understanding: An inquiry into human knowl-edge structures.
Hillsdale, N.J.: Erlbaum,1977.Schiffer, S. R. Meaning.
Oxford: Oxford Univer-sity Press, 1972.Stalnaker, R. Pragmatic presuppositions.
InA.
Rogers, B.
Wall, and J. P. Murphy (Eds.
),Proceedings of the Texas conference on per~formatives, presuppositions, and implicatures.Arlington, VA: Center for Applied Linguistics,1977, pp.
135-148.Winograd, T. Understanding natural language.New York: Academic Press, 1972.63
