Some Psycholinguistic Constraints on the Construction andInterpretation of Definite Descriptions IAndrew OrtonyCenter for the Study of ReadingUniversity of Illinois at Urbana-ChampaignIntroductionIt is a curious and important fact aboutnatural languages that they can be and often areused nonliterally.
Whereas in artificial lan-guages it is normally impossible to distinguishbetween the meaning of an expression on the onehand, and the intended meaning the user wishes toconvey with that expression on the other (thetwo are identical), in natural languages a par-allel distinction between sentence meaning andspeaker meaning (see, for example, Searle, 1975,in press) underlies all nonliteral uses.
One ofthe central concepts in the analysis of non-literal uses of language is that of indirectness.It is a notion that has begun to attract theattention of linguists, philosophers, psycholo-gists, and computer scientists in their variousefforts to come to a better understanding ofnatural languages and of human linguistic per-formance.
One of my purposes in this paper isto show how central a concept indirectness iswith respect to the production and comprehensionof definite descriptions.The main problem with which I am concernedis a multi-level one.
At the most general levelit concerns the way in which people determine thereferents of definite descriptions, and how lan-guage users choose the definite descriptions theydo.
More specifically, I am concerned with thequestion of the constraints that exist upon howa thing can be referred to.
What makes this aninteresting problem is the fact that it seems notto be necessary for a referring expression to bebased on either information that has already beenmade explicit in the preceding discourse, noreven on information that is entailed by what has.Yet clearly, there are constraints on the ex-pressions that can be used if there is to be arealistic hope of communicative success.The question of what is to count as a rea-sonable way of referring to something in partdepends for its answer on what counts as a rea-sonable indirect use of language.
When, forexample, one refers to the 1977/78 Seattlebasketball team as The Cinderella of the NBA oneis using a definite description based on a predi-cate that is not literally true of the intendedreferent but that is metaphorically applicableto it.
As one thinks about the processes thatmight be involved in the production or comprehen-sion of such an expression they appear to be verycomplex, yet however complex they may be, peopleusually engage in them without any apparentdifficulty.
At present there appears to existno adequate theoretical account of what theseprocesses are like, perhaps because a comprehen-sive treatment of definite descriptions has as aprerequisite a theory of indirectness, and thatin turn seems to hinge on a more comprehensivetheory of speech acts than is currently available.My own proposals are not intended to fill allthese gaps, but they are intended to sketch apossible direction for doing so.
The main goalthat I have is to suggest a way of imposinglimits on indirectness, and then, to show howthose same limits are needed to account for someimportant constraints on successful definitedescriptions.Definite Descriptions and their Textual RelationsI shall take it as axiomatic that everydefinite description is based upon a predicatethat is supposed to be uniquely applicable (a tleast within the context of the discourse) tosome entity relevant to the discourse.
Thus,the definite description The first man on the moonis based on the predicate is/was the first man onthe moon, and it is assumed to be applicable tosome entity (e.g.
Nell Armstrong) relevant to thediscourse.
It is important to note at the outsetthat coreferential expressions cannot always besubstituted for one another without a change ofmeaning.
For instance, if, on arriving in astrange unfamiliar hotel in a foreign land onewere to utter (la), it hardly makes sense to saythat it is equivalent to uttering (Ib).
(la) I feel like the first man on the moon,(Ib) I feel like Nell Armstrong.However, i f  the speaker can safely assume thathis audience knows that Nell Armstrong was thef i r s t  man on the moon, (lb) could be used as anindirect  way of achieving the communicativeintent of ( la ) .
Notice, i t  is not necessary toknow who the f i r s t  man on the moon was in orderto fu l l y  understand ( la ) ,  whereas i t  is neces-sary to know that Nell Armstrong was the F i rstman on the moon in order to properly understand(#b) (although one might not understand why thespeaker used (Ib) with its unnecessary demands'on addit ional  knowledge and inferences inpreference to ( la ) . )
In any event, i t  seemsthat even the relat ionship between def in i te73descriptions and proper names may sometimes dependon a notion of indirectness (see 0rtony & Anderson,1977).The interpretation of definite descriptionsoften relies heavily on the establishment of in-ferential relationships of various kinds in orderto determine which entity is being referred to.Such inferences tend to be forced jointly by thedesire of the hearer or reader (hereafter referredto simply as "the hearer") to make sense of thediscourse, and the assumption that the speaker orwriter (hereafter, simply, "the speaker") is com-municating in accordance with the cooperativeprinciple (see Grice, 1975).
This latter assump-tion is critically important in cases where thepredicate underlying the definite description isnot obviously true of the intended referent--andsince these cases appear, at least on the surface,to constitute the most difficult ones, I shallconcentrate on their analysis, to some extent atthe expense of simpler examples.
I shall callsuch cases "definite descriptions of inference.
"The overriding logic of the determination of thereferents of such definite descriptions is thatif the speaker is communicating in accordancewith the cooperative principle certain assump-tions have to be recognized in order for theexpression in question to successfully identifythe intended referent.
These assumptions oftenserve to "sneak in" new information about thereferent (in much the same way as appositiverelative clauses introduce new information).
Theidentification of these assumptions is based oninferences of various kinds.Definite descriptions of inference can becontrasted with definite descriptions based onentailment relations.
Definite descriptionsbased on entailment are those for which thereferent can be determined either by transforminga predicate that has already appeared in the dis-course into a definite description (descriptionsbased on the principle of identity), or by re-lating the description to predicates that haveappeared earlier, on the basis of rules of formallogic (e.g.
modus ponens) applied to them.
2 Theimportant difference between a definite descrip-tion of entailment and a definite description ofinference is that the interpretation of the formerdoes not depend on the provision Of suppressedpremises drawn from the comprehender's generalworld knowledge.
In a definite description ofinference it does.
An example of a definitedescription of entailment can be found in (2),where the underlined expression is entailed bythe content.
(2) A well-dressed man entered the roomand greeted the hostess.
Althougheyeryone else was drinking sherry,he asked the waiter for a scotch.The waiter gave him one.
The manwith the scotch walked over to hishost.In this case, if the waiteP gave the man ascotch, it entails that the man had the scotch, 3and so, within the constraints imposed by thecontext, he can be uniquety identified by thedefinite description the man with the scotch.With definite descriptions of inference, aswith communication in general, success oftendepends on the speaker and the hearer sharing acommon background of knowledge (see, for example,Stalnaker, 1974).
Definite descriptions of in-ference are more complex.
For example, supposethat in (2) the sentence The waiter gave him oneis omitted.
Then, the definite noun phraseThe man with the scotch only succeeds in re-ferring to the right man if it is assumed thatthe man who asked for a scotch was given one.Unfortunately, only in biblical circles is ittrue that asking for something guarantees beinggiven that thing.
So, in order for the hearerto identify the intended referent he has toassume that the man got his scotch.
Of course,this assumption comes easily for it can be madeon the basis of a plausible inference requiringonly the introduction of plausible suppressedpremises, such as that when a guest asks awaiter for a particular kind of drink at a cock-tail party, the waiter normally obliges if thatdrink is available.
This constitutes a simpleexample of a definite description of inference.On encountering a definite description, thehearer has to assume that the description doesindeed refer to some already mentioned person orthing, in this case, say, the guest.
In doing so,he makes inferences that fill in what wentbefore--that is he makes inferences about whatmight have been asserted to enable the predicateunderlying the description to be both applicableand relevant.
The comprehender might reason asfollows in the present example: "If this ex-pression refers to the guest, then it must bethe case that the waiter gave him a scotch.
Thisis quite plausible since it is customary forwaiters at cocktail parties to give guests thedrinks they request if those drinks are available.It is plausible that scotch was available, sinceit is a frequently served drink at such occasions.So I shall assume that this is what happened andthat is why the guest was referred to as 'the manwith the scotch'."
Whether or not people normallyconstruct such chains of reasoning in order toidentify the antecedents of definite descriptionsis not the issue here.
What is the issue, as weshall see later, is that it be possible to con-struct such a chain.
Certainly, one has to supposethat the kind of general world knowledge requiredto do so is normally available during the compre-hension process.
The relevant frames, scripts,schemata, or whatever other knowledge structuresare supposed, are presumably activated.Definite descriptions of inference involvingindirectness, like (3) and (4) below, tend to bemore complex.
They are characterized by the factthat the applicability of the predicates under-lying them often depends on the utilization ofknowledge that Morgan (1978) calls knowledgeabout the language, as opposed to knowledge ofthe language.
These turn out to be cases of in-ferences involving knowledge about illocutionaryforces and perlocutionary effects (see Austin,1964).
(3) The hostess offered the guest somecake.
He told her that he was on adiet.
His brother, who was with him,told her that he personally was not74on a diet.
The man who had refusedthe cake walked over to his host.
(4) The hostess asked the man where hiswife was.
He replied "Mind yourown business, you old bag.
~' Thehostess was furious that the manwho had insulted her had beeninvited to her party.The interpretation of (3) requires not onlysemantic and general world knowledge in the waythat (2) does, it also requires the knowledgethat saying that one is on a diet can count asrejecting an offer to eat something.
In thecase of (4) it requires the knowledgethat theviolation of certain language-use conventionscan count as offensive behavior.
Of course, ina sense, this kind of knowledge about the con-ventions of language use and the social/communicative consequences of their violationis knowledge of the world, just as knowing thatwaiters normally serve the drinks they are askedto is.
But, insofar as it is knowledge of con-ventions about the use of language, and insofaras this is an area which has been singled out asbeing of core concern in pragmatics, it is worthseparating such cases from the other kinds ofcases, like (2).
In fact, I think, the distinc-tion is difficult to uphold because the mechanismrequired to deal with indirectness is the samekind of inferential mechanism as is required todeal with "ordinary" knowledge of the world.The question that eventually has to beanswered concerns the constraints that there areon the predicates employed in definite descrip-tions.
My view is that the answer to thisquestion depends on finding an answer to a moregeneral question about the pragmatics of lan-guage, namely the question: what constraintsare there on what is relevant (in the sense usedby Grice, 1975 and others).
Staying, for themoment, with definite descriptions, compare (5)and (6) below:(5) The hostess offered the guest somecake.
He told her that he was on adiet.
His brother, who was with him,told her that he personally was noton a diet.
The man who thought h eought not to eat fattening thingswalked over to his host.
(6) The hostess offered the guest somecake.
He told her that he was on adiet.
His brother, who was with him,told her that he personally was noton a diet.
The man who was not hungrywalked over to his host.It seems to me that whereas (5) is perfectlycoherent, (6) is not.
It becomes coherent, how-ever, if the context is changed so that insteadof (he) told her that he personally was on a dietit reads (he) told her that he personally hadjust eaten, then both (3) and (6) seem perfectlyacceptable.
It seems, then, that the appropri-ateness of the definite description depends onthe appropriateness of its underlying predicates.Telling someone that one has just eaten is anappropriate, relevant, piece of information forpermitting the inference that one is not hungry,and/or that one does not want the offered food.By contrast, telling someone that one is on adiet is an appropriate piece of information forpermitting the inference that one does not wantwhat is being offered, but it is not appropriatefor the inference that one is not hungry.Indirect Speech ActsA major part of my thesis is that the predi -cate underlying a definite description of in-ference is constrained by the relevance relationin just the same way as that relation constrainswhat counts as an indirect speech act in a dis-course.
If this is so, then it will help to havea working hypothesis about the constraints thatexist on indirect speech acts.Suppose the s i tuat ion  is that described in(3), namely, one in which someone is offeredsome cake and in uttering (7) intends to refusethe cake.
(7) I am on a diet.The question we have to answer is this.
Since itdoes not follow logically from (7) that the in-tention was to refuse the cake, on what basisdoes a listener come to the conclusion that indeedthat was the intention?
Furthermore, why does,for example, (8) not succeed in communicatingthe refusal?
(8) My mother is an opera singer.Perhaps one should reject (8) on some very generalgrounds.
For example, on the grounds that onecannot randomly assign a sentence to an intentionand expect to be understood.
But the same oldquestion arises about what constitutes a randomversus a non-random assignment as arises aboutappropriateness and relevance.The solution I propose is based on the notionof a "plausible chain of reasoning."
It is this.For an indirect speech act to be understood asbeing relevant, or appropriate, it must be able toparticipate as a premise, or as a sub-conclusion,in a quasi-logical, or better, psycho-logical,chain of reasoning that plausibly relates theevent that initiates it to its intended illocu-tionary force.
To see the full implications ofthis proposal, let us see how it works with theexample.
The man is offered some cake, and thisoffer is the event that initiates his response.From the perspective of the man, (9) is true.
(9) I am being offered some cake.Such an event calls for one of two responses, anacceptance or a refusal, appropriately modifiedby politeness conventions.
Let us assume that"Yes, please" and "No, thank you" count as direct,literal speech acts for accepting and refusing,respectively.
They certainly are conventionallyregarded as direct ways of accepting and refusing.Now we can see that in this particular case, theproposal is this: for (7) to be understood as arefusal, it must be able to participate as apremise, or as a subconclusion, in a psycho-logical ~chain of reasoning that plausibly relates7.5the original offer to its acceptance or rejection.Such a chain of reasoning might look somethinglike (9) - (15).
(9) I am being o f fe red  some cakeI0) I am on a d ie tl l )  People on d ie ts  ought not to  eatfa t ten ing  th ings12) Cake is fa t ten ing13) ( I t  fo l lows  log ica l ly  that )I ought not to  eat  any cake14) (It follows deontically that)I will not eat any cake(15) (It follows conventionally that)I will refuse the cakeThis chain of  reasoning,  inc lud ing  the in termed ia teand f ina l  conc lus ions  does not const i tu te  a deduc-t i ve ly  va l id  argument in the usual log ica l  sense.The re la t ionsh ips  that  ex is t  between (13) and(14), and between (14) and (15) are not entailmentrelations, but they are characteristic of humanreasoning.A number of important observations have to bemade about the chain of reasoning--observationsthat amount to constraints on what it normally is.First, there are no unnecessary premises in it.Every premise is needed for the establishment ofthe first subconclusion, (13), which in its turnis needed for establishing the final conclusion.Second, although the order of the premises thatare introduced from the speaker's general know-ledge can be manipulated, the most natural orderis one in which each premise invokes a conceptthat has been foregrounded (in the sense of Chafe,1972) by the preceding one.
If this were not thecase, the possibility of introducing irrelevantpremises would arise--a possibility that couldserve no useful purpose in the present context.In fact, this constraint probably needs to be alittle more liberal than I have described, but forthe reasons I have indicated, something close toit needs to operate.
Third, the conclusion of thechain contains the information appropriate for adirect response to the initiating event, an eventthat need not itself be a linguistic one (as itis in the present example).
The initiating eventmight be an observed event to which an appropriateresponse might be a description of it, or of areaction to it.
Consequently, in the generalcase, "response" should not be taken to mean"reply.
"There are doubt less  o ther  const ra in ts  thata more deta i led  ana lys i s  would revea l ,  but fo r  themoment I want only to suggest that the conjunctionof these (or some comparable set of) constraintsconstitutes what I mean by "plausibility" in thecontext of my requirement that the chain ofreasoning be a psycho-logically plausible one.We are now in a position to consider whathappens from the perspective of the hearer.
Themost important thing is that the hearer assumesthat the speaker is constrained in what he says injust the kind of way that I have indicated.
Thehearer, therefore, attributes to the speaker someplausible chain of reasoning.
However, thehearer may not have all the knowledge that isavailable to the speaker -(he may not know that heis on a d ie t ,  fo r  example) .
Consequent ly,  hemay have to make in ferences  of  h is  own in o rderto reach some of  the premises requ i red .
Thiswould be t rue  i f ,  fo r  example, the response tothe o f fe r  of  cake had been (12) ra ther  than ( I0 ) .Sometimes these in ferences are incor rect  and oneunderstands cor rect ly  what was in tended,  but fo rthe wrong reasons, or  one misunderstands i t  a l -together .
As we sha l l  see, th i s  fac t ,  that  theheater ' s  in terpretat ion  is on ly  probab i l i s t i ca l lydetermined,  has some impor tant  consequences fo rthe speaker 's  se lec t ion  of  h is  u t te rance .The most c ruc ia l  c la im that  I wish to makeabout the chain o f  reasoning is th i s .
Assumingthat  the speaker does not choose to express him-se l f  d i rec t ly  ( fo r  whatever  reason) ,  then w i th inthe l im i ts  o f  the context ,  any of  the premisesor  subconclus ions in the chain from the in i t ia t ingevent to the (d i rec t )  conc lus ion  can funct ion  asmore or  less eas i ly  in terpretab le  sur rogates  fo rthe conc lus ion - -any  of  the steps can const i tu tean ind i rec t  speech act  appropr ia te  to  the d i rec tspeech act  that  const i tu tes  the conc lus ion .
Thus,any of  (10) ,  ( l l ) ,  (12) ,  (13) ,  and (14) can serveas ind i rec t  response to  the o f fe r .
And, i f  someother  response is made, i t  must be ab le  to serveas a step in a s imi la r  chain of  p laus ib lereasoning.
I f  i t  cannot,  i t  is  an inappropr i -ate response.
I t  is p rec i se ly  these const ra in tsthat  prevent  (8) from being a poss ib le  ind i rec tresponse to the o f fe r ,  s ince there  is no basisof  shared knowledge that  w i l l  normal ly  permi t  ahearer  to  reconst ruct  an argument in which (8)f igures  to  be re levant  on the chain from in i t i -a t ing  event to conc lus ion .An impor tant  quest ion  that  now needs to beanswered is why do people use language ind i rec t lyin the f i r s t  p lace ,  and why, g iven that  they canchoose from a res t r i c ted  range of  ind i rec tcommunicat ive ac ts ,  do they se lec t  the ones theydo.
Why, fo r  example, would a speaker choose(10) instead o f ,  say (12)?
The answer to  thef i r s t  par t  o f  the quest ion  depends on exact lywhat k ind of  ind i rec t  language act  is being used.For example, metaphors may be used fo r  purposesof  communicat ive economy, communicat ive v iv id -ness, or even communicat ive poss ib i l i ty  (seeOrtony, 1975).
With ind i rec t  speech acts ,  theanswer is very  o f ten  that  the speaker gets" two fo r  the pr i ce  of  one . "
For example,  he can,w i th  one ut terance ,  not on ly  refuse the o f fe r ,  buta l so  sat i s fy  cer ta in  soc ia l  convent ions  by pro -v id ing  a good reason fo r  h is  re fusa l ,  o r  a t  leas th in t ing  at  one.
As Sear le (1975) po ints  out ,  inan ind i rec t  speech act  the speaker intends boththe sentence meaning and the speaker meaning tobe recognized by the hearer .
So, ind i rec tnessa f fo rds  economy as we l l  as,  o f ten ,  po l i tenessand sens i t iv i ty .There remains the quest ion  of  why a speakershould se lec t  one form over another .
The answeragain l i es  in the fac t  that  the communication ofthe l i te ra l  meaning of  the ind i rec t  language actis intended.
Some of  the knowledge that  isneeded to  const ruct  the reasoning chain may bemore pub l i c ly  ava i lab le  than o ther  knowledgerequ i red .
Thus, most people know that  peopleon d ie ts  ought not to  eat  fa t ten ing  th ings76(depending on the purpose of the diet, of course).Consequently it can be assumed that a hearer hasmore ready access to that fact than to the factthat the speaker is on a diet (which possibly veryfew people know).
Thus, the speaker's selectionof the particular language act can teke advantageof his beliefs about what the hearer is likely toknow.
It can also take advantage of the factthat some of the choices seem to have a strongerforce than others.
This is a complex issue.
Myintuitions are that (13) leaves open the possibil-ity of ultimately accepting some cake rather morereadily than does (lO), perhaps because once (lO)is used it must be relevant to the chain of rea-soning, whereas if (13) is used, it could be usedto reach a different conclusion.
After all, mostpeople occasionally do things that they ought notto do, and that possibility seems wide open ifthe response to the offer is (13).
This is notthe place to explore these issues further, but itis worth noting that many jokes capitalize onexpectations of plausible reasoning chains of thekind I have been discussing--the trick is to makethem go awry!My proposal shares certain characteristicswith that of Searle (1975) in that it suggests anot necessarily conscious chain of reasoning.
Itdiffers from Searle's account insofar as it makesclaims about the constraints on what can be saidand understood.
Searle's chain of reasoning con-tains many metalinguistic premises about in-directness that I have treated as backgroundassumptions.
My focus, by contrast, is on thecontent of the chain.
What I have proposed is apossible answer to the question "How indirect canan indirect speech act be?"
I have suggestedthat it cannot be so indirect that it could notparticipate in a chain of plausible reasoningrelating a representation of the initiating eventto an appropriate direct response to that event.I have also suggested that the illocutionaryeffect of all steps within such a chain will beappropriate for that initiating event.Definite Descriptions of InferenceWhen speakers and writers produce, andhearers and readers comprehend definite descrip-tions, they do so against a background of know-ledge that includes their tacit knowledge aboutindirectness.
This knowledge is often broughtto bear in dealing with definite descriptionsof inference--descriptions, that is, in whichthe underlying predicate could appear on thereasoning chain and that could constitute adirect or indirect speech act.
Thus, for example,(3) and (4) are cases in which the underlyingpredicate could constitute the conclusion of achain of reasoning--i.e, a direct language act,while (5) is a case in which the underlyingpredicate could constitute a premise in a plau-sible chain of reasoning--i.e, an indirect lan-guage act.In a sense, what I have proposed is a partialaccount of relevance in Grice's (1975) sense, orperhaps better yet, a partial account of whenapparent violations of relevance are indeed onlyapparent, and why.
It is quite clear that thepredicates underlying definite descriptions haveto be relevant to the discourse just as any othercomparable meaningful components of it must be.This is the sense in which I claim that the con-straints that govern what definite descriptionscan be used by a speaker who hopes to be under-stood are the same as those that govern what aspeaker can in general say, if he has those sameaspirations.
There is no doubt that a detailedtranslation of my proposals about indirectnessinto comparable ones about definite descrip-tions is no easy matter.
One reason is that thereasoning process that underlies the determina-tion of a referent may be from a conclusion toan initiating event, as in (3).
Another is thatnot all the steps in the chain can be employed,but only those that contain information applicableto the referent--not, for example, generalizationslike (ll).
In such cases, if the premise is to beincorporated, it has to be embedded as the comple-ment of an appropriate verb of propositionalattitude.
Nevertheless, it seems to me that someof the notions that I have laid out might provehelpful, if only by virtue of the fact that theymay eventually lead to better proposals by others.Earlier, I suggested that perhaps descrip-tions of inference involving indirect speech actsand those not involving them, really hinge onfundamentally the same kind of processes.
Onthe surface, the basic difference concerns whetheror ~ot they involve the addition of pragmaticknowledge.
It turns out, however, not to be aneasy matter to decide what is pragmatic knowledgeand what is merely semantic or factual.
Forexample, (16) is a description of inference:(i6) The navigator had heard thatthe weather might be unpleasant.He had always been concerned forthe comfort of the passengers.He proposed taking a more indirectroute to avoid the possible storms.The captain disagreed.
He feltthat the sooner they arrived attheir destination the better--hewanted a drink and a decent meal.After a long argument the cautiousone got his way.Now, for a hearer to determine that the cautiousone and the navigator are coreferential, it isnecessary for him to invoke general knowledgeabout what constitutes a cautious act (contrastthis with an offensive act).
This in turn re-quires inferences to be made about human actionsand intentions.
To be sure, the actions inquestion are not linguistically performed acts,but that appears to be the only difference.Furthermore, had the pilot asserted that he wantedto take the shortest route because of his frivo-lous desires, would he not, thereby have beenindirectly recommending a (possibly) recklessact?
Surely, what is pragmatic and what is notcannot come down to performative verbs.
Yet, ifit is to be broader than that, what criteria areto be used to separate the semantic from thepragmatic?
The old notion of semantics as en-tailment is certainly too restrictive to be usefulas a model of natural language processing, but thenew notion of pragmatics seems to amount to littlemore than the notion that language processors arerational beings who engage their reasoning pro-cesses in language comprehension and production77just as they do in perception and action.
Eventhe notion of a speech act seems to have veryfuzzy boundaries unless it is trivialized by in-voking psychologically uninteresting surfacestructural aspects like the presence or absenceof performative verbs.Distinctions between different classes oflinguistic phenomena are usually difficult tomaintain i'n any rigid way, particularly if theyare supposed to have psychological correlates.This is true of the distinction between syntaxand semantics, of that between semantics and prag-matics, of that between literal and nonliteral,and of that between descriptions of entailmentand descriptions of inference.
As usual, clearcases are easy to recognize, but there is alwaysa large grey, undecided area in the middle wherethe classification seems sterile.
In the case ofthe distinction between descriptions of entailmentand descriptions of inference, the problem isexactly the same as the classical philosophicalone that plagues the analytic/synthetic distinc-tion.
This is hardly an accident since my dis-tinction is really no more than the analytic/synthetic distinction in disguise.
Maybe all thatneeds to be said is that some inferences (e.g.ones based strictly on the rules of logic) aregenerally easier to make than others.
If this isright then it merely means that some relationshipsbetween descriptions and their intended referentsare more transparent than others.
Nobody couldobject to that.The last question I want to deal with is thepsychological status of my claims, particularlywith respect to the inference patterns that Ihave proposed.
My position is not that it is anecessary condition for the comprehension orproduction of a definite description of inferencethat a person actually construct such a chain ofreasoning.
My claim is only that it should bepossible to do so--there has to exist some de-terminable connection between the predicateunderlying the definite description and the dis-course in which the description occurs.
But,being determinable and being determined are dif-ferent things.
As a matter of fact, there areoften other clues that will permit the hearer tomake a good guess about the referent's identity,discourse topic being one of them.
It is almostcertainly the case that people sometimes do gothrough some such reasoning process as I have out-lined, and if and when they do not, they couldprobably be induced to do so by being askedsuitable questions about what they took the re-ferent to be, and why it was reasonable orplausible to do so.ReferencesAustin, J. L. How to do things with words.Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1962.Chafe, W. L. Discourse structure and humanknowledge.
In J.
B. Carroll and A. O.Freedle (Eds.
), Language comprehension andthe acquisition of knowledge.
Washington,D.C.
: V. H. Winston, 1972.Grice, H. P. Logic and conversation.
In P. Coleand J. L. Morgan (Eds.
), Syntax and semantics(Vol.
3): Speech acts.
New York: AcademicPress, 1975.Morgan, J. L. Two types of convention inindirect speech acts.
In P. Cole (Ed.
),Syntax and semantics (Vol.
9): Pragmatics.New York: Academic Press, 1978.Ortony, A.
Why metaphors are necessary and notjust nice.
Educational Theory, 1975, 2_55,45-53.Ortony, A., & Anderson, R. C. Definite descrip-tions and semantic memory.
CognitiveScience, 1977, i, 74-83.Searle, J. R. Indirect speech acts.
In P. Coleand J. L. Morgan (Eds.
), Syntax and semantics(Vol.
3): Speech acts.
New York: AcademicPress, 1975.Searle, J. R. Indirect speech acts.
In A.Ortony (Ed.
), Metaphor and thought.Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,in press.Stalnaker, R. C. Pragmatics.
In D. Davidsonand G. Harman (Eds.
), Semantics of naturall@nguage.
Boston: D. Reidel PublishingCo., 1972.Footnotesl This research was supported in par t  bythe Nat ional  Ins t i tu te  of  Education underContract  No.
US-NIE-C-4OO-76-Ol16, and by aSpencer Fellowship awarded to the author by theNational Academy of Education.
I am grateful tomy colleagues Glenn Kleiman, Robert Kantor, andJerry Morgan for their helpful comments onearlier drafts of this paper.21 call them definite descriptions ofentailment because technically they both are.The principle of identity, that pDp,  representsan admittedly trivial entailment.
It is impor-tant in the present context because it representsthe case in which some predicate is literallytransformed into the body of a definite descrip-tion.
More complex cases are still based onthe usual rules of propositional logic such asmodus ponens, ((p~q).q) ~q).3Caution is needed here.
Some cases ofgiving do not entail having.
One can givesomebody a pat on the back, or a kick in theteeth; the.
recipient gets it alright, but hedoesn't have it!
However, if we specify theappropriate constraints on the object the en-tailment will hold.78
