Topic LevelsJoseph E. Gr imesCornel l  Univers i ty  andSummer Institute of L inguist icsNow that the sentence is no longerthe edge of our world, we see more c lear lythan ever how total ly  responsive speech isto the s i tuat ion that cal ls it forth andto the people involved in it.
Bare contentis shaped and packaged to meet manyrequirements at once.I have tried to sort out two broadcategor ies  of these requirements.
Thefirst, cohesion, is hearer or iented.
It isthe inf luence on form of the speaker 's  ownassumpt ions about what the hearer knows ateach instant of the communicat ion  process.The second, staging, is speaker or iented.It ref lects how the speaker ca l ibrates theimportance of d i f ferent  parts of what hehimsel f  intends to say.
I find it helpfulto tie down the d iscuss ion of bothcohesion and staging to d i f ferences inl inguist ic  form; there may be otherpsychologica l  or phi losophica l  overtonesto cohes ion and staging that have no suchd i rect  repercussions,  but gett ing at thoseovertones is another matter.One of the areas where we are makingprogress in the l inguist ic  study ofd iscourse is in seeing how speaker andhearer always seek a common ground ofreference.
This area, however,  is h iddenin a terminological  thicket.
Char lesHockett  (1959.201) or ig inal ly  identi f iedit as topic, in which, in his terms, 'thespeaker announces a topic and then sayssomething about it.'
Gundel (1974) hasfol lowed this usage, and I think it thebest label for now even though it getsconfused with topical izat ion,  which may ormay not be part of the same package.
Muchearl ier some of the Prague Schooltheorists (summarized in Danes 1974), andlater Hal l iday (1967), used theme for asimilar concept, and now Grosz (1977) hasused focus for something not verydi f ferent.
Each of these three terms,topic, theme, and focus, has also beenused for at least two other kinds ofphenomena by reputable l ingu{sts, soeventual ly  we are going to have to puttogether a road map to all thea l ternat ives;  but just because the termsare confused is no reason to conclude thatno headway is being made.The idea that I am going to cont inueto refer to as ~ is this: forcommunicat ion  to succeea, speaker andhearer have to establ ish common ground.This common ground is usual ly  a presumedagreement about the identity of certa inobjects in the real world.
It may also beagreement about certa in events or aboutcerta in re lat ions that hold.
As far as itsl inguist ic  express ion goes, I think its igni f icant  that its formal makeup appearsto revolve around nominals  most of thetime, treat ing things that are notnecessar i ly  objects  as if they were.One reason the common groundphenomenon seems so important is thatwithout its narrowing effect, the hearermight not be able to manage the numeroussemantic a l ternat ives that could bedeveloped from each express ion in the textconstructed by the speaker.
Gundel haspointed out the ut i l i ty in this regard ofa formulat ion attempted by Searle(1969.126) :For any speaker S, any object  X andany predicate P, it is a necessarycondi t ion of S's having predicated pof X in the utterance of a sentencecontain ing P, that X should havebeen successfu l ly  referred to inthat utterance and all thepresuppos i t ions  of P should be trueof X.Searle's X is very much like what Iam call ing the topic, in that unless thehearer can relate to it referent ia l ly ,  hecan neither agree nor d isagree withwhatever else may be said about it.Gundel i l lustrates how even anisolated sentence like George ate a plateo__ff shr imp cannot be ass imi lated as part ofa real communicat ion  unless the hearer hassome way of knowing which of the peoplenamed George is being referred to; once heknows that, he can react with yes he didor no he didn't  or oh, the sign of a newconste l - la t l - -~of  -fnformation in memory(Winograd 1972).Grosz has made a useful d is t inct ion104between the hearer 's  memory for concepts,which tends to be long term and global toa text, and the hearer 's  memory forl inguist ic  form, whfch tends to be shortterm and local to a segment of text.
Herd is t inct ion interlocks with the oneHal l iday and Hasan (1976) make betweenreference and subst i tut ion.
What  theycall reference identi f ies concepts,objects outs ide of language, and evenpieces of language itself, as they arement ioned once they have been introduced.What they call subst i tut ion includesel l ipsis; it refers to the react ivat ion ofstretches of speech from earl ier in thetext in order to talk about s i tuat ionsthat have not a l ready been referred to,but which have enough in common withothers that have been referred to that thesame l inguist ic  express ion can apply tothe new situat ion.It is the first of these, memory forconcept rather than form, from which thespeaker appears to take what he hopes iscommon ground between himself  and hishearer.
This se lect ion from the fieldavai lable for global  reference is what isbehind Gundel 's  observat ion  that the topichas to be access ib le to the hearer.
(Themost access ib le  things arecharacter i s t i ca l ly  the standard elementsof the communicat ion situation: I, you,here, and now.
)In the course of a temt, be itmonologue or dialogue, the referent ia lcommon ground that is used as the core ofcommunicat ion may change.
This is true ofthe global  topic and apparent ly  of localtopics as well.
The initial core ofreference may be des ignated very simply,for example by a s ingle noun phrase, withno d i f fe rent ia t ion  of parts or funct ionsat the beginning.
Gundel even shows thatthe topic of some sentences may beimplicit,  not ment ioned in that sentence,but neverthe less  to be taken into accountif the sentence is to make sense.Once the topic of a text is put intoplay, that topic may be developed in atleast three d i f ferent  ways that have beendescr ibed so far in the l i terature:  it maybe expanded, shifted, or split.Expansion adds things to the core ofreference.
Shift adds new referents tothe core and leaves others off, so thatwhat is taken as common ground at onepoint in the text d i f fers  from what wastaken as common ground earl ier.
Spl i t t ingthe core results in local topics beingbrought into play in relat ion to globaltopics; or rather, higher level topics arespl it  into a higher level part and a lowerlevel part, a process which if repeatedmay yield more than two levels in the sametext.Topic expansion is i l lustrated in astory from Time magazine (June 21, 1976,p.
56).
The da--te-of the issue needs to betaken as the initial topic; there is noother common ground to begin with betweenthe writer and the reader.
This is normalin news stories: consider how impossib leit is to agree or d isagree with anythinglike The Giants  beat the Dodgers until oneknows the occasion.
The tit le of thispiece is Teton: Eyewitness to Disaster .For a reader who knows his geography,Teton identi f ies a place, whi le  for onew-~ does not, there is at least a goodchance that it is a place name or the nameof a person.
The idea of referent ia lcommon ground gives us for starters areasonable guess at an event that happenedthe week before the appearance of themagazine,  and poss ib ly  a place, as al imit ing field within which to place theinterpretat ion of the rest of the message.The text begins with a paragraph setoff in italic type and quotat ion marks, inwhich the speaker is not identi f ied: "Thiswet spot on the side of the dam startedspurt ing a l i tt le water ..." The nounphrase that begins the sentence isdef inite,  as is the dam contained withinit.
The def in i teness  here suggests thatthe writer expects the reader to be ableto find the reference because it isaccess ib le  within the l imits a l ready set.If he fol lows that suggest ion and takesTeton as the name of the dam and acceptsthis as ident i fy ing something new with inthat field, his reference succeeds.
(Theside is leg i t imate ly  def in i te  once weidenti fy the dam by what Hal l iday andHasan call lexical cohesion; dams havesides.)
As far as pinning down a core ofreference is concerned, the text so farhas.
i ts  topic bui l t  up as c lear ly  as ifthe art ic le had begun much more dully, asfor example Last week at a place cal ledTeton where there is a dam, a wet spotappeared on its side.The text goes on "... and I asked mymother, 'D_oo you think we shou-~ Hotl--i-~-y theauthor it ies?'
She said: 'I don'tthink ...'" Here the person who is makingthe report is ment ioned expl ic i t ly  for thefirst time, as is the mother to whom thequest ion is addressed.
This complex of theobservers,  the wet spot on the dam, thelocation, and the time pers ists  as thereferent ia l  core or topic through thecourse of over a column.
It is bui l t  up bysmall references to g ive an expandedtopic.Topic shift d i f fers  from expansion inthat some referent ia l  e lements appear tobe dropped from the topic as the textprogresses;  some things that were treatedas part of the common ground in theearl ier part of the text are not sotreated later.
Schank (1977) focuses onthe intersect ion of the referent ia l  fieldof one sentence and that of its successor,and tries to def ine some (but not all)ways in which that intersect ion relatesto the referent ia l  f ield of the nexti05sentence.
His initial def in i t ion of topicas 'any object,  person, location, act ion,state, or time that is ment ioned in thesentence to be responded to' is probablytoo inclusive, because it does not takeinto account Sear le 's  factor of successfu lreference; but once a text is begun,Sear le 's  boundary condi t ion is no longerneeded, because the reference has beenestabl ished by the text itself.For Schank a new topic is 'derivedfrom the or ig inal  input but is notidentical  to it', in that reference mayshift  from a speci f ic  e lement ment ioned inthe earl ier sentence to the class of whichit is a part in the later sentence, orvice versa.
The element in the latersentence may also be a d i f ferentconceptua l i za t ion  that is l ike the firstin kind; Schank cal ls  this supertopic .
Itmay also be 'a comment that can beinferred from the interact ion of twoconceptua l i zat ions ' ,  or metatopic .
Schanksuggests  more specif ic  rules that he hopeswil l  character ize  the way topics shift  inthe course of a text.The key concept,  however,  is hisobservat ion  that a sentence out of contextcannot  be said to have a topic, becausefor him the topic ar ises only out of theinteract ion of ad jacent  sentences by theprocess of intersect ion.
If he is right,or close to right, it is reasonable thatsome of the things that are treated astopic earl ier in the text be g ivend i f ferent  treatment later in the sametext, because they are no longer taken aspart of the referent ia l  common groundbetween the speaker and hearer.The idea of spl i t t ing up thereferent ia l  field embraced by the topicinto higher and lower level topics hasbeen treated in two d i f ferent  ways, eachof which may be val id in its place.
Groszrecognizes the phenomenon,  and g ives anintr iguing example (1977.23) of a pronounit which refers back to a global  topiclast ment ioned half  an hour earl ier,  eventhough a whole ser ies of local topics hascome between the pronoun and itsantecedent .
In her d iscuss ion  of globaland local topics, however,  she tends toequate the first with memory  for conceptsand the second with memory for forms,ch ief ly  because she finds the domain ofe l l ips is  to be restr icted to a localsegment of text, and to always involvememory  for forms.Meyer (1974) and Clements (1976),however,  find the g loba l - loca l  phenomenonoperat ing independent ly  of e l l ips is  orother subst i tute- l ike  memory  for form.They construct  a topical h ierarchyconsist ing of a global  topic, whateverlocal topics are talked about as part ofthe d iscuss ion of the global  topic, andwhatever lower level topics are talkedabout as part of the d iscuss ion of thoselocal topics, in what apparent ly  gives arecurs ive ly  def inable topic tree ofunrestr icted depth.
In this model ,psycholog ica l  tests of recal l  show thatsubordinate posit ion in the topic treeregular ly  gives worse recall  thansuperord inate posit ion.The def in i t ion  of topic used by Meyerand Clements is ear l ier  than Gundel 's ,  sothat one could expect the var iance intheir results to be reduced by at tent ionto her pr inc ip les  for recogniz ing topics.Topic for Clements is more l ike Hal l iday 'stheme, ord inar i ly  the first thing in thesentence.
His topic h ierarchy comes fromthree rules:(i) Topic rule:Ident i fy  the topic of eachclause and simple sentence.
(ii) O ld /new rule:Decide whether the topic is new(never prev ious ly  mentioned) orold (mentioned in an earl iertopic or comment).
If new --assign it one level below theprevious topic.
If old --assign it the same level as itsf irst ment ion.
(iii) Coord inat ion  rule:If a topic is coord inated withan earl ier topic or comment,ass ign it the same level asthat earl ier  topic or comment.The work of C lements and Meyer lendscredence to the idea that there may be ah ierarchy of topics in a text, allreferent ia l  in Hal l iday and Hasan's sense,rather than dependent  only on short termmemory for form.
Some observat ions  fromKoine Greek, the vernacular  Greek of thefirst century  before Chr ist  to the thirdcentury  after, appear to bear this out.Word order is used much less in Koinethan it is in Engl ish to speci fygrammat ica l  relat ions, because the casesystem of nouns carr ies that load.
One ofthe funct ions which word order expressesseems to be that of ident i fy ing shifts intopic (Grimes 1975).
Noun phrases in thenominat ive case that precede the main verbof a c lause regular ly  make that nominat ivethe topic; that is, they signal the readerto take it as part of the referent ia l  corethat is to be the common ground betweenhim and the writer.The con junct ions  of Koine Greek alsoplay a part in the topical structure.There are three kinds of conjunct ions:coord inat ing,  subord inat ing,  andresumptive.
The coord inat ing con junct ionsinclude most of the ones t rans latab le  as'and' or 'but' The subord inat ingconj unct ions include the ' because ' and'if' var iet ies.
The resumpt ive ara, dio,and occas iona l ly  idou mean something like106'now, back to the main point'.
They resetthe topic level from wherever it was tothe global topic.Working along with the con junct ionsystem is the system of grammat ica lsubordinat ion.
It uses re lat iv izers,complement izers ,  part ic ip les ,  and verbalnouns to signal that certain propos i t ionsare peripheral  in the author 's  perspect iveon what he has to say.
All thesesubordinat ing grammatica l  mechanisms areused constant ly  in the ancient Koinedocuments,  even though it would beperfect ly  possib le to express what theyexpress in str ings of independent c lauseswith no subordinat ion.The result is texts with a r ichlye laborated grammatical  structure, withsome clauses at four or even five levelsof subordinat ion.
The general  d is t inct ionbetween global and local applies, butrecursively:  at any level ofsubordinat ion,  it appears poss ib le  to haveyet another level of subord inat ionattached.When we turn, however,  to languagesthat make d is t inct ions  of topic levelexpl ic i t  in their pronominal  systems, wefind no greater  e laborat ion than ad is t inct ion between global and localtopics.
Bacair i  of Brazil  (Wheatley 1973)is such a language.
The terms Wheat leyuses in his descr ipt ion  are 'thematic -athematic' and 'focal - nonfocal' ;  but itseems clear from perusal of his paper thatwe would now want to call the thematiccategory the topic, and the focal categoryglobal.
Someone who has been identi f ied aspart of the common ground between speakerand hearer for a text as a whole isreferred to by the pronoun maca 'thematicfocal animate'; someone who Ts--6opic for alocal segment but is not the global  topicat the same time is referred to by auaca'thematic nonfocal animate'; someone whois global topic, but is referred to withina stretch that has a local topic active,is mauanca  or maunca 'a themat ic  focalanimate' ,  and those who are topic neitherat the global  level nor at the local levelare referred to by uanca 'athematicnonfocal  animate' There are inanimatecounterparts  for all four pronouns.On the thematic side -- that is, inthe pronouns used for topics -- there is as i tuat ional  or deict ic  use that confusesthe picture.
The pronoun inara 'thematicnondeict ic  animate' is only textual lydef ined, with an anaphor ic  antecedent  thatis taken always from the precedingsentence, not from the topical structureof the text as a whole.
On the other handthere is a pronoun mira 'thematic deict icanimate' which appl ies only to animatethings that can be seen and are near thespeaker.
In between the nondeict ic  andthe deict ic  are the s i tuat iona l  uses ofmaca and auaca .
The first denotes someonefar away but in sight, and the seconddenotes someone nearer to the speaker butnot as near as mira.There are s i tuat ions in which thesetwo pronouns appear to fl ip theirreference; what they actua l ly  do is changethe basis of the reference from thes i tuat ion to the text.
Thus I can begin atext by ident i fy ing a boy over there asmaca because he is re lat ive ly  far away,and a woman standing closer as auacabecause she is not so far away.
But i-fwhat I have to say revolves around thewoman rather than the boy, I wil l  switchafter a few sentences to the textualdef in i t ion of the pronouns and use macafor the woman because she is more centralto what I have to say, and auaca  to theboy when I treat him as a loc- -~ topic.However, we have no informat ion about theuse of these pronouns to topical ize atmore than two levels at a time.Longuda of Niger ia has a lesse laborate pronoun system with respect totopics than that of Bacair i  (Newman, inpress), but neverthe less  it d i s t ingu ishestopic from nontopic.
There is actua l ly  aseries of pronoun-aspect  part ic les thatappear in sequence in texts to identi fyact ions of the central  character andd ist inguish them from the act ions ofothers.
In some parts of a text thecharacter  singled out by the pronouns isthe one the text is about; he is treatedas the global  topic.
Where local topicsare introduced, however,  the topic pronounset switches over to the local topic, andthe referent of the global  topic isreferred to by the same nontopic pronounas all the other characters.For example, in a story about arabbit, most of the story uses the topicpronoun series for the rabbit and anontopic pronoun for everybody else,including an elephant who interacts withthe rabbit.
One section, however,  isabout what the elephant did.
In thatsect ion it is the elephant who gets thetopic pronoun series, and the rabbit getsthe nontopic series, even if it is therabbit whom the story is about global ly.When the sect ion about the elephant ends,the topic pronoun series reverts to theglobal  topic, the rabbit.Evidence from languages like theseproves the l inguist ic  real ism of ad is t inct ion  between one kind of topic andanother.
It also agrees in the main withthe kinds of analys is  we have been makingfor English; apparent ly  we are fair lyclose to the right track, in terms ofthose languages that put this kind ofthing right out on the surface.
What isnot yet clear is the number of levels oftopic we may deal with in a text:Clements' s analys is  of Engl ish and myanalys is  of Greek point toward more thantwo s imultaneous levels of topic, whi le107the languages that distinguish levels oftopic in their pronoun systems seem tosupport two levels.BibliographyClements, Paul.
1976.
The effects ofstaging on recall from prose.
CornellUniversity Ph.D. thesis.Danes, Frantisek, ed.
1974.
Papers onfunctional sentence perspective(Janua Linguarum series minor no.147).
The Hague: Mouton.Grimes, Joseph E. 1975.
'Signals ofdiscourse structure in Koine'.
InGeorge MacRae, ed.
Society forBiblical Literature 1975 SeminarPapers, Vol.
i. Missoula, Montana:Scholars Press, 151-164.Grosz, Barbara.
1977.
The representationand use of focus in dialogueunderstanding (Technical Note 151).Menlo Park: Stanford ResearchInstitute.Gundel, Jeannette.
1974.
The role of topicand comment in linguistic theory.University of Texas Ph.D. thesis.Halliday, Michael A. K. 1967.
'Notes ontransitivity and theme in English,Part 2' Journal of Linguistics3:199-244.and Ruqaiya Hasan.
1976.
Cohesionin English.
London: Longman GroupLimited.Hockett, Charles F. 1959.
A course inmodern linguistics.
New York: TheMacmillan Company.Meyer, Bonnie J. F. 1974.
The organizationof prose and its effects on recall.Cornell University Ph.D. thesis.Newman, John F. in press.
'Participantorientation in Longuda folktales'.
InJoseph E. Grimes, ed.
Papers onDiscourse.
Dallas: Summer Instituteof Linguistics.Schank, Roger.
1977.
'Rules and topics inconversation'.
Cognitive Science1:4.421-442.Searle, John.
1969.
Speech acts.Cambridge: Cambridge UniversityPress.Wheatley, James.
1973.
'Pronouns andnominal elements in Bacairidiscourse'.
Linguistics 104:105-115.Winograd, Terry.
1972.
Understandingnatural language.
New York: AcademicPress.108
