Toward a Rational Model of Discourse ComprehensionJerry L. MorganCenter for the Study of ReadingUniversity of Illinoisat Urbana-ChampaignI .
IntroductionI begin my tale with the moral: a quotationfrom the greatest English grammarian, OttoJespersen (1965).The essence of language is human activity--activity on the part of one individual tomake himself understood by another, andactivity on the part of that other tounderstand what was in the mind of the first.These two individuals, the producer and therecipient of language, or as we may more con-veniently call them, the speaker and the hear-er, and their relations to one another, shouldnever be lost sight of if we want to under-stand the nature of language and of that partof language which is dealt with in grammar.But in former times this was often overlooked,and words and forms'were often treated as ifthey were things or natural objects with anexistence of their own--a conception whichmay have been to a great extent fosteredthrough a too exclusive preoccupation withwritten or printed words, but which is funda-mentally false, as will easily be seen witha little reflexion.
(p. 17)But the temptation to think of language as pureform is great; Jespersen himself slips into thismetaphor a few pages later:?
?
.
we always find that there is one wordof supreme importance to which the others arejoined as subordinates.
This chief word isdefined (qualified, modified) by another word,which in its turn may be defined (qualified,modified) by a third word, etc.
(p. 96)But words do not define, modify, or qualify otherwords.
Speakers define, qualify, and modify.This confusion is so tempting that it is perva-sive in every field that studies language, at anylevel.
It is almost universal in linguistics.
Wefind it, for example, in the following fromHalliday and Hasan (1976), who probably knowbetter:Let us start with a simple and trivial exam-ple.
Suppose we find the following instruc-tions in the cookery book:\[1:1\] Wash and core six cooking apples.Put them into a fireproof dish.It is clear that them in the second sen-tence refers back to (is ANAPHORIC to) thesix cooking apples in the first sentence.This ANAPHORIC function of them gives cohe-sion to the two sentences, so that we inter-pret them as a whole; the two sentencestogether constitute a text.
Or rather, theyform part of the same text; there may be moreof it to follow.The texture is provided by the cohesive RELA-TION that exists between them and six cookingapples.
It is important to make this point,because we shall be constantly focusing at-tention on the items, such as them, whichtypically refer back to something that hasgone before; but the cohesion is effected notby the presence of the referring item alonebut by the presence of both the referringitem and the item it refers to (P. 2).There are two serious confusions here.
First,words do not refer; speakers refer to things byusing words.
The word them does not refer toanything at all, obviously so since it can be usedto refer to any set one wants to refer to.
Thereis no particular set of entitles that one can saythe word them refers to.
But one can use it torefer to sets of things, when one's intendedreferent will be recoverable in some way by thehearer.The second confusion is the idea that words"refer back" to other words.
The muddle here isobvious.
Whether it is people or words thatrefer, it is things, not (usually) other words,that they refer to.
Thus in Halliday and Hasan'sexample \[1:1\], it is not the words six cookingapples that them is used to refer to; one is notbeing instructed to put three words in a fireproofdish.
The word them is used to refer to certainapples that were previously referred to by use ofthe words six cooking apples.
My objection tosuch descriptions is not based merely on a nig-gling concern with sloppy language.
If it were,one might respond that it's clear what Hallidayand Hasan mean here, so my complaint is besidethe point.
Rather, I think the pervasive confu-sion on just this point is a symptom of a seriouscomceptual confusion that renders a lot of therelated work useless.
This is the case with thepassage from Halllday and Hasan.
They say that itis some relation between sentences in a text thatgives it "cohesion", that renders it coherent,109"so that we interpret them as a whole; the twosentences together constitute a text."
The re-lation that gives rise to this cohesion is thatthem in one sentence "refers back" to the sixcooking apples in a previous sentence.
If weinterpret this phrase charitably, then the ques-tion arises, how do we know what them refers to?How do we know that it refers to the apples, andnot to two of the writer's bachelor Uncles?
Wecan't know such a thing.
We can only assume thatthe writer is rational, and that the recipe is co-herent.
If it is coherent, we are justified inassuming that it is the apples that are referredto by them.
But there is a vicious circularityhere.
The recipe has cohesion, is a coherenttext, just in case them refers to the apples.
Butwe are only justified in inferring that them re-fers to the apples if we assume that the text iscoherent.
Thus, in spite of Halliday and Nasan'sclaim, it is not the anaphoric facts that giverise to cohesion; rather, the assumption that thetext is coherent gives rise to the inference thatthem refers to the apples.This kind of confusion, it seems to me,arises from the linguist's habit of looking atevery aspect of language in terms of linguisticforms and relations between them.
Thus in thiscase the mistaken characterization of referenceas a relation between words, and of coherence asa property of an abstract linguistic object calleda text.
In the rest of this brief paper I wantto sketch an opposing view, and to claim thatnotions like "reference," "text structure,""relevance" and "coherence" are best treated, atleast in part, in terms of communicative acts andthe plans and goals of speakers/writers who per-form such acts.II.
Three Ways of Looking at a TextAssume for the moment that we know what atext (oral or written) is, and can tell a co-herent text from a random transcription of Englishsentences (I will return to what counts as acoherent text later).
Then there are (at least)three kinds of things and relations involved in atext.I.
Sentences.
First, conventional wisdom inlinguistics has it that texts consist of sen-tences.
I shall accept this for the moment,though a bit later I will show cause to modify it.But what kind of "thing" is a sentence?It is, if anything is, an abstract linguisticobject, a unit of form.
It is not a proposition,nor a fact, though it is a means by which suchthings are asserted, denied, questioned, etc.Nor is a sentence a speech act, though a speechact will usually be performed by means of theutterance of a sentence.
But a sentence and anutterance of a sentence are different kinds ofthings.A sentence is not the kind of thing that istrue or false; "facts," or "propositions," thatsentences can be used to express, are true orfalse.
Or perhaps it would be more appropriateto speak of assertions as being true or false.At any rate, it is quite clear that it is nonsenseto speak of sentences as true or false, asevidenced by the familiar problem of indexicalexpressions.A sentence, then, may be used to assert thatsomething is true, or false, or has occurred,but the sentence itself is not true or false,and does not occur.
Thus relations like causa-tion, order in time, entailment, and so on, donot hold between sentences.
It is not clear whatkind of relation can accurately be said to holdbetween the sentences of a text.2.
"Facts."
The second kind of "thing" involvedin a text is what I shall call "facts."
(Noticethat I do not say texts consist of or containfacts; merely that they somehow involve facts.
)The term "fact" is a bit misleading--though Ican think of no better term--in that I wish toinclude as facts events, states, and so forththat do not actually hold in the real world;"propositions," more or less.Relations among the "facts" involved in atext, then, consist of two classes: first, thesame relations that hold between facts in thereal world--causation, relations of temporalorder, motivation, and so forth; second, thoserelations that have to do with logic and hypo-thetical facts, like entailment and contradic-tion.
It may be necessary to distinguish factson the one hand and propositions on the other,on grounds that relations between facts are of akind different from relations between proposi-tions, but I will ignore the problem here.3- Speech acts.
The third kind of thing involvedin texts is the "speech act" (by this term Imean to include as a sub-case acts of linguisticcommunication by writing).
Speech acts are notsentences, nor "logical forms," nor propositions,in spite of occasional attempts to define themin these terms.
They are acts, just as the termimplies.Relations between the speech acts involvedin a text are just those that can hold betweenacts in general.
First, since an act is a sub-type of event, the relations that can hold be-tween events can, in general, hold between acts,thus between speech acts: relations of temporalorder, for example.
Second, since a speech actis a sub-type of act, relations that can holdbetween acts can, in general, hold between speechacts.
The most important relation in this regardis the relation of purpose: one does such-and-such in order that such-and-such; or one performsa certain act in order thereby to perform asecond act.
Long chains of these relations canhold between acts.
I may throw a switch in orderto turn on a light in order to frighten away aburglar in order to save the family jewels.
Imay tell my friend that there is a charging bullbehind him in order that he realize that he isin danger, in order that he get out of the way.It is a mistake to ask whether my speech act wasan assertion or a warning, since this presupposesthat the two are mutually exclusive.
It was both;I asserted something and thereby warned somebody,just as I threw the switch and thereby turned onthe lights.
I may make a certain mark on apiece of paper, thereby marking my ballot forSmith, thereby casting a vote for Smith.
I mayii0assert that I will do the dishes, thereby volun-teering to do the dishes.
And so on.It is commonly the case that acts are linkedby complex relations of purpose and goal, includ-ing the case where one act is performed by meansof performing another act.
This is especiallytrue of communicative acts.There are several subvarieties of speechacts, for which several taxonomies have been pro-posed; Austin (1962), McCawley (1977), for example.One important distinction in kind is the distinc-tion between the act of saying a sentence, andthe act one thereby performs.
In performing anact of saying the English sentence "Your hair isin my yogurt" I may, in the right circumstances,thereby inform someone that their hair is in myyogurt.
The first kind of act, the act of saying,includes making sounds in a way that conforms tothe conventions for what counts as a saying of asentence, or making visible marks in a way thatcounts as a saying of a sentence.
Texts, then,do not really consist of sentences, but of sayings("uses") or sentences; or in the case of writtentexts, of a permanent kind of record of uses ofsentences.III.
The Interpretation of TextsA.
Speech acts.
The interpretation of atext, then, consists of the interpretation of thisrecord of sayings of sentences.
Each saying isinterpreted in terms of some speech act(s) per-formed by saying a given sentence.
(Henceforthby "speech act" I will mean the communicative actone performs by saying a sentence, as opposed tothe act of saying itself.)
There are threeaspects to the interpretation of speech acts: theinterpretation of what speech acts are performed--assertion, promising, denial, questioning,warning, etc.--by the saying of the sentence; theinterpretation of what "facts" are asserted,denied, etc.
; and the interpretation of thespeaker's purpose and goal in performing thespeech act.As an aside I should mention the specialinstance where nothing is directly asserted,denied, etc.
: the case of speech acts of refer-ence.
An act of asserting, etc.
(for brevity Iwill henceforth use assertion as representativeof all speech acts types), will usually includean act of referring as a subpart; a reference tothe entity of which something is asserted.
Butacts of referring can occur independently.
Forexample, l might say "The door~" to someone undera number of circumstances, to get them to openit, close it, shoot the bad guy standing in it,or merely observe what beautiful hardwood it ismade of.
It would be a mistake to say that"The door~" means any of these things, or thatI have performed (directly) any kind of speechact beyond merely referring.
I have only re-ferred to the door, thereby to call my hearer'sattention to it, with the expectation that whenhe turns his attention to the door he will realizewhat it is I want him to do about it.The typical immediate goal associated withspeech acts of all kinds is the same: that thehearer modify his model of a certain "world"(in the sense of "possible worlds ~') in a waythat involves the "facts" that are asserted, etc.in the speech act.
The world involved may bethe real world, or, in the case of story-telling,for example, some imaginary world.
The modifica-tion may include the construction ex nihilo ofsome hypothetical or imaginary world.
The rela-tion between the "f~cts" of the speech act andthe intended m0difi~ation vary with the natureof the speech act; but in all cases some modifi-cation is involved.
The simplest case is that ofassertion; normally the immediate goal of anassertion is that the hearer modify the worldunder discussion in a fashion that makes theasserted fact true in that world.
In the case ofyes-no questions, the goal is that the hearermodify his model of the world such that in thatworld the speaker wants the hearer to tell himwhether the fact questioned is true.
In the caseof imperatives, the goal is that the hearermodify his model such that in that world thespeaker wants the hearer to bring about the truthof the ordered fact, and that certain socialconsequences will follow from non-compliance.The raw datum of comprehension, then, is notthe sentence or the proposition, but the fact thata certain speech act has occurred.
In comprehen-sion, people do not process sentences as abstractformulae; they observe that someone has saidsomething to them, and attempt to interpret thatact and its consequences, which may includemodification of their model of the world.
Theprocess of modifying the model according to whatis said is not direct, but the result of severalsteps of evaluation.
Interpretation of anassertion might go roughly like this, from theviewpoint of the hearer (where S is the speaker,A the addressee; addressee and hearer may beidentical):S has said x to A.
Saying x counts asasserting p. S knows that saying xcounts as asserting p. S knows thattherefore his saying x is likely to beinterpreted by A as an assertion of p.S has done nothing to prevent A frommaking this conclusion.
Therefore S'sintention is that his saying x be takenby A as an assertion of p. Then if Sis sincere S believes that P is true.A must conclude that S has asserted pbecause he wants A to take p as trueand modify his model of the worldaccordingly.But the decision to believe p, i.e.
modify hismodel of the world to include p, is a matter ofchoice on H's part, not an automatic consequenceof processing the "sentence."
The steps involvedin making this decision are equally complex,involving the ability to construct a hypotheticalworld just like the real one except that p istrue, to evaluate the consistency and plausi-bility of that world, and so on.
Some of thefacts that are asserted will relate to thisdecision-making process.
For example, in saying(1) my goal is most likely that the hearer cometo believe that both facts asserted are true.
(1) John is here.
He has a dog with him.iiiBut in the case of (2), I am not so much con-cerned with the second asserted fact in itself,but with the goal that from concluding that it istrue, the hearer will be more likely to believethe first, since I intend that he take the secondfact as evidence that my source is reliable.
(2) The world is flat.
It says soin the Encyclopedia.Matters that are sometimes construed as rhetoricalrelations between sentences fall into this cate-gory.
Some fact is asserted not because it isimportant in itself, but because it bears on H'sevaluation of some other asserted fact.
Thus therelation is not one between sentences, but be-tween speech acts.
One speech act is performedin order to influence the interpretation andevaluation of another.
At any rate, my point hereis that in comprehending a text in the serioussense, comprehension proceeds not from some dis-embodied abstract object called a "sentence," norfrom a "proposition," but from the perceived factthat S has said such-and-such, and that so sayingcounts as a speech act of a certain type.There i~ another way in which modificationof the world model is not a direct function ofthe asserted fact: the widely studied problemof inference.
Given the hearer's acceptance ofwhat the speaker has asserted, incorporation ofthe facts into the model of the world may involvemore than merely adding the asserted facts.There is, for example, a general principle ofceteris paribus that comes into play in considera-tion of alternative worlds.
Roughly, when con-structing a model of a world alternative to somepoint-of-reference world (usually the real one),the hearer will assume, lacking evidence (fromassertion or inference) to the contrary, that thealternative world is consistent with the point-of-reference world in all relevant respects.
To takean extreme example, if someone is telling me aboutlife on Arcturus, I will assume that the laws ofphysics are the same there as on earth, unlesssomething the speaker says leads me to believeotherwise.
In the same way, hearers will assume,lacking counter-evidence, that what is typicalin the point-of-reference (e.g.
real) world isalso typical in the alternative world.
They willalso assume that things of a given type have theproperties typical of things of that type.Gricean rules of conversation support these in-ferential strategies in the following way: Thehearer knows that the speaker knows the hearer islikely to make inferences according to these andother strategies.
The speaker has done nothingto prevent the hearer from making them.
There-fore the hearer is justified in inferring thatthe speaker intends for the inference to be made.Using these and other strategies, then, thehearer modifies his model of one or more worlds,based not on detached sentences or propositionsfloating in some abstract semantic space, but onhis observation that a certain person has per-formed a certain speech act.B.
Relations among speech acts.
But thereis more to the interpretation of a text than justthe interpretation of individual speech acts.
Aspeech act is performed for some purpose, withsome goal in mind.
And complete understandingof a text involves the ability to infer suchgoals and purposes at every level, from in-ferring the purpose of referring expressions toinferring the speaker's overall goal in con-structing the text.
One can understand everysentence in a text, yet come away puzzled at whatit was the speaker was trying to say, or whatthe parts of the text had to do with each other.To understand the purpose of a speech act is tounderstand how it relates to a goal, how it is astep toward the achievement of that goal.
Themost appropriate kind of theory for this aspectof a text is a theory of plans, in which pur-poses, goals, acts, and intentions play a crucialrole.There are a large number of goals a speakercan have in constructing a text, including manythat are irrelevant to comprehension: to deriveroyalties, for example, or to confuse an enemyby furnishing misinformation.
A proper theoryof text comprehension must distinguish goalslike these from those that are central to com-munication and comprehension, probably by meansof conditions like those Grice (1957) proposesas criteria for meaning.C.
What can go wrong.
Then we can sketchthe task of text comprehension as follows:l. From the sounds or markings, H mustrecover what sayings are recorded inthe text, in what order.2.
From this H must recover what speechacts have been performed, in whatorder.3.
From each speech act H must recoverwhat facts are being asserted, denied,promised, etc.4.
From this H must infer what modifica-tions he is intended to make in hismodel of the world, and how to makethem in the most consistent way;this is not a direct function ofthe facts, as discussed earlier.5.
For each speech act H must infer apurpose that is consistent with thepurposes he inferred for earlierspeech acts; or he must reviseearlier hypotheses about purposesaccordingly.
Questions H must inferanswers to are, "Why did the speakerperform this particular speech act,at this particular point in the text?
"and "Why does he want me to havethis particular fact just now?"6.
From speech acts and their purposestaken jointly, he must construct ahypothesis of the speaker's goal inthe text, and of the plan that thespeaker is following in advancingtoward that goal.
At each step thepurpose of a given speech act mustsomehow be construed as consistent112with, and actually advancing thatplan, or the plan hypothesis mustbe modified so that it can.7.
From hypotheses about the speaker'splans and goals in the text, thehearer will form expectations:hypotheses about what the speakeris likely to do next in advancingtoward the goal of the text.These matters do not proceed in separate compart-ments, of course, but feed each other.
The planone has constructed so far can influence decisionsabout what speech act is performed in a givenutterance, for example, and the interpretation ofpronouns can be influenced by hypotheses aboutthe speaker's goals, just as a decision about whata referring expression is being used to refer tocan influence the process of inferring a plan, andexpectations about what the speaker will do nextcan influence the interpretation of what heactually does.From this sketch we can derive a picture ofwhere things can go wrong in comprehension, givingsome insight perhaps into notions like "textstructure," "relevance," and "coherence.
"The hearer can have difficulty in tasks 1through 3, of course, but the matter seemsstraightforward, so I will not discuss it.
Diffi-culties can arise in task 4 in at least two ways.First, the world described may be so factually orlogically bizarre, or so inconsistent with thehearer's beliefs (a description of ping pong in ablack hole, for example), that the hearer is un-able to construct a consistent model with anydegree of detail.
The term "incoherent" might beapplied to such cases, but I think this is notwhat linguists mean by "textual coherence," whichI will discuss below.A second kind of difficulty with task 4arises when the facts are consistent, but thehearer lacks the knowledge necessary to figureout how to construct a consistent model thatincorporates those facts.
For example, if Idescribe in detail a walk through the South Sideof Chicago, a person who has been there beforewill be able to construct a much more richly de-tailed model of my walk than a person who has not.Difficulties can arise with task 5, insofaras the hearer is able to understand clearly what'sbeing asserted, but unable to determine thespeaker's purpose in asserting it.
Here is theplace to look for an adequate definition ofrelevance.
Actually there are two senses ofthe word in ordinary usage.
One can speak ofrelevance as a relation between facts.
One factis relevant to another when the truth of one de-pends in some way on the truth of the other.
ButI think more often, linguists who speak of"relevance" as a problem of text comprehensionhave in mind a problem that is best treated interms of purposes behind speech acts.
Given ahypothesis about the goal and plans of a speakerin a text, a given "sentence" (i.e.
speech act)is taken to be irrelevant when the hearer is un-able to see how it functions within the plan toadvance toward the goal.
Relevance under thisinterpretation, then, is a relation between anact and a goal, not a relation between sentences.If in recounting my recipe for WienerschnitzelI describe my new driveway, it's not that thesentences are irrelevant; rather, I have donesomething irrelevant.
The same passage maycount as full of irrelevancies, relative to onegoal, but uniformly relevant, relative to anothergoal.Task 6 is probably the most complex anddifficult, and the one we know least about.
ButI suspect that it is a likely source of progressin understanding such important but elusivenotions as "coherence," "text structure," and"topic."
In understanding a text, the hearerunconsciously searches out a primary goal behindthe text, and tries to construe every part of thetext as a purposeful step toward that goal,according to some plan.
If the hearer is unableto reconstruct the goal or plan, or indeeddecides there is none, the text will be judged"incoherent."
Coherence is not a formal propertyof texts, nor of "logical structures" of texts,but a function of the hearer's ability to relateof the text to a pla~ for parts achieving somegoal.
If it should turn o~t that the coherenceIof texts correlates with the number of pronouns,it would be a mistake to conclude that lots ofpronouns makes a text coherent.
Rather, it wouldshow that coherent texts tend to be ones wherethe speaker says a lot about one or two topics,rather than saying one thing about 32 topics.It is the coherence of what the speaker is doingin the text that gives rise to the abundance ofpronouns; the formal property of having a lot ofpronouns does not give rise to coherence.At least some aspects of "text structure"can also be treated in these terms.
An idealunified paragraph, for example, is a unit offunction, not of form; the speaker formulatesa subgoal as a step toward the primary goal ofthe text, and sets about to achieve, that goal ina series of speech acts.
Insofar as the heareris able to discover this, the series of speechacts will be judged to be a unit; but a unit offunction, not of form, defined not in terms ofsentences or propositions, but communicative actsof some person, who uses those sentences to conveythose propositions.It is likely that an understanding of task 6will lead to an understanding of "topic" aswell.
At present, there are nearly as manydefinitions of "topic" as there are linguists,and none of the definitions is clear enough tobe usable.
For some linguists the topic is acertain NP in a sentence; for others a topic issomething a sentence has, though the NP may notbe present in the sentences.
For some everysentence has a topic; for others, only somesentences have topics.
But I suspect that allof these attempts miss by a wide mark.
First,it is not NP's that are topics, but the thingsin the world they refer to.
Second, I suspectthat such definitions can never be made sense ofin that i?
is speakers, not sentences or eventexts, that have topics.
If so, then the propertheoretical treatment of "topic" would be framed113in terms of a theory of complex communicativeacts, not formal linguistic properties.IV.
ConclusionIn this speculative paper I have proposed away of looking at the comprehension of connectedtext that is counter to the linguist's usual wayof looking at language.
My main point is thatcertain notions are more likely to receive ade-quate treatment in a theory that incorporates atheory of speech acts, a theory of plans and goals,and a theory of inference, in place of a theorythat looks for answers in terms of formal proper-ties of texts.
It remains, of course, to developsuch theories to a level where my claims can berigorously tested.
The construction of suchtheories should be a prime goal of theoreticallinguistics.ReferencesAustin, J.
How to do things with words.
Oxford:Oxford University Press, 1962.Grice, H. P. Meaning.
Philosophical Review,1957, 66, 377-388.Halliday, M. A. K., & Hasan, R. Cohesion inEnglish.
London: Longman, 1976.Jespersen, O.
The philosophy of 9rammar.
NewYork: Norton, 1965.McCawley, J.
Remarks on the lexicography ofperformative verbs.
In A. Rogers, R. Wall,and J. Murphy (Eds.
), Proceedings of theAustin Conferenee on Performatives, Prersuppositions, and Implicatures.
Arlington,Va.
: Center for Applied Linguistics, 1977.FootnoteThis research was supported by the NationalInstitute of Education under Contract No.US-NIE-C-4OO-76-OII6.114
