The Processing of Referring Expressions within a Semantic NetworkJohn R. AndersonYale UniversityFrege (1892) is credited with emphasizing thedistinction between sense and reference.
His fa-mous example involved the mornin$ star and theevenin$ star.
Despite the fact that they both re-fer to the same object (i.e., Venus), they havedifferent senses as witnessed by the fact thatsentence (i) is not synonymous with sentence (2):(i) The morning star is the morning star.
(2) The morning star is the evening star.This philosophical issue has similarities to anissue that is of importance to understanding nat-ural language processing: How do subjects processreferring expressions to extract internal repre-sentations (a) of their meaning and (b) of theirreferents in the external world.
The example sen-tence that we will be returning to in this paperis:(3) The first president of the United Stateswas a bad husband.It is clear that in understanding this sentencewe both process the subject as a description,and identify this as referring to George Wash-ington.
This paper will try to explain how thiscomes about.
As I believe that all interestingquestions about representation come down toquestions about memory, I will approach this ques-tion from a human memory perspective.Some "self-evident" truths about human memory.To set up a framework for further dis-cussions, I would like to list some of the factsthat I think we know about human memory -- eitherbecause of a sophisticated common sense and self-observation or because of a mass of experimentaldata:(i) Human memory can be conceived of as anetwork of associations among concepts.
(2) Some nodes in this network refer to in-dividuals in the external world.
(3) Once information is deposited in memoryit cannot be erased.While there are a number of memory theories thatembody these assumptions, I will be using the ACTmodel (Anderson, 1976) to present the theory anddiscuss the data in this paper.
With this briefstatement of the pre-theoretical biases, I wouldlike to turn to an experimental paradigm whichcaptures, in expanded time scale, the processesthat I think are going on when we comprehend re-ferring expressions.A Mock-up of the Morning Star-EveningStar  ExampleOne of the experiments in this series (seeAnderson, 1977; Anderson & Hastie, 1974 for athorough report) had subjects study a set of factssuch as (4) - (8):(4) The smart Russian is the tall lawyer.
(5) The smart Russian cursed the salesgirl.
(6) The smart Russian rescued the kitten.
(7) The tall lawyer adopted the child.
(8) The tall lawyer caused the accident.The critical manipulation was whether the identi-fication sentence (4) was learned some time be-fore or some time after sentences (5)-(8).
Forthe identification before condition, part (a) ofFigure i illustrates, very schematically, thenetwork structure we thought was created.
Thereis a node X set up to represent the individualand attached to that node are the various factslearned about this person.
Part (b) of Figure iillustrates the network situation in the identi-fication after condition.
Becuase the subjectdid not learn of the identity between the twoindividuals until after learning sentences (5)-(8), he was led to create two nodes in memorywhich turn out to refer to the same individual.It would seem optimal if he could merge nodesand \[ together but this would amount to erasingmemory structures, violating principle 3.
Ratherwe assume that the subject encodes a separateproposition to the effect that the two individualsare identical.
This is represented in Figure ib,by the link between X and Y labelled with an '='.
(a) Identification BeforeCURSED RESCUED ADOPTED CAUSEDSALESGIRL KITTEN CHILD ACCIDENTSMART RUSSIAN ~ W Y E R(b) Identification AfterCURSED RESCUED ADOPTED CAUSEDSALESGIRL  KITTEN CHILD ACCIDENTSMART RUSS IAN TALL LAWYE RFigure i.
Memory representations at the beginningof the r~ct lon  time verification phase.51The memory representations in Parts (a) vs.(b) make different predictions about time toverify statements (9) vs. (i0):(9) The smart Russian cursed the salesgirl.
(I0) The smart Russian caused the accident.Statement (9) is referred to as a direct statementbecause it is identical to a study statement,while statement (i0) is referred to as an infer-ence as it can be inferred from statements (4)and (8).Table i displays subjects' reaction times toverify direct statements and inferences in theidentification before and identification aftercondition?
We would expect subjects to show verylittle advantage for direct statement over infer-ence in a representation like Figure la sincethere is no special connection preserved betweenthe predicates and the referring expressions theyTable iReaction Times (in msec) to  verifyStatements llke 9 and i0Identification ProvidedBefore AfterDirectStatementInference2310 1978J2388 2634were studied with.
In fact the verification timesare almost identical in the two conditioms.
Incontrast the afte____~r conditlon in Part b of Figure ieach referring expression is only directly con-netted to the predicates it was studied with.
Toverify an inference requires an extra step of ac-tivating the path encoding the equality of X andY.
Correspondingly, we find an advantage for di-rect statements over inference.
Finally, notethat there are many more links attached to noder~250C22502200I 750m?-4omX in part (a) than to either X or Y in part (b).This means there are more irrelevant paths thatcan interfere with finding the desired connection.Correspondingly, we find subjects faster to directstatement trues in the after condition.The data reported in Table I come from thefirst block of reaction time test trials?
Therewere four such blocks of trials?
The reactiontime data for all four blocks are displayed inFigure 2.
Besides illustrating a general speed-upover the course of the experiment, the figure il-lustrates the differences among the conditionsgradually disappear over the course of the experi-ment.
Specifically, the differences between in-ference and direct statements in the after condi-tion disappears and the differences between iden-tification before and identification after condi-disappear.To account for this across-block trend wepropose that the subject begins a process ofcopying the predicates from one of the nodes inFigure ib to the other node.
Th,at is, one nodeis chosen to be abandoned and the other to receiveall information.
Therefore, supposing the subjectchoses to copy from node Y to X, everytime he en-counters a fact attached to X he wil l  attempt tocopy it to Y.
Figure 3 illustrates our belief a-bout the memory representation by the end of theexperiment.
Note that the node X has been attach-Figure 3: Memory representation in the identifi++cation after condition after much practice at ver-fying inference questions.CURSED RESCUED ADOPTED CAUSEDSALESGIRL KITTEN CHILD ACCIDENTSMART RUSSIAN TALL LAWYERed to all the facts learned of Y.
Also the con-nections involving Y are dotted to indicate thatthey have become weak through disuse.
The after"eI I I I .1 2 3 4BLOCK OF THE EXPERIMENTo o0-----0After InferenceBefore InferenceBefore Direct StatementAfter Direct StatementFigure 2: Verification times forvarious kinds of probes as afunction of practice.52representation in Figure 3 has become functionallyalmost equivalent to the before representation inFigure la.
Thus there is little difference betweeninference and direct statement or between the af-ter and before condition.One might wonder why the subject did not per-form this copying when he learned about the iden-tity between the two referring expressions ratherthan later in the verification phase of the experi-ment.
In the ACT memory model such copying opera-tions cannot be performed unless the data to becopied is active in working memory.
At the timeof studying the identification statement (4) thepredicates needed for copying would not be activein memory.
It is only when inferential statementslike (i0) are encountered in the test that the cop-ying can take place.
The referring expressioncould be copied while learning the identificationstatement.
So the expression tall lawyer might beimmediately attached to X.
Thus, Figure ib mightbe an oversimplification of the state of memory inthe identification after condition.
But in anycase, the inference effect will not go away untilthe predicates are copied and this will not occuruntil the reaction time test phase.Why should we believe this copying explana-tion rather than any of the multitude of alterna-tive mechanisms that might be offered the explainthe data in Figure 2.
First, it satisfies theconstraint that the subject not be able to eraseinformation from memory and many of the mechanismswould not be.
Second, unlike many of the othermechanisms, it assumes an asymetry in the fate ofthe two individual nodes in Figure lb.
One nodeis fated to receive all the information and theother node is to be abandoned.
It seems reason-able that a subject would choose to preserve thatnode which had the more information attached and/or had this information attached more strongly.We have been able to demonstrate that subjects doabandon the "weaker" node.The evidence for this asymetry comes fromexperiments that use a proper name rather thanone of the definite descriptions.
That is, thematerial is the same as in the example exceptthat wherever tall lawyer appears a proper namelike James Bartlett would be used.
There is evi-dence (Anderson, 1977) that subjects learn mater-ial less well involving the proper name than thedefinite description.
Correspondingly, we wouldexpect subjects to choose to abandon the propername node and maintain the definite descriptionnode.
Evidence for this comes from the follow-ing analysis: We would propose that, in the ini-tial drilling on the sentence James Bartlett isthe Russian, in the identification after condi-tion subjects copy the James Bartlett name tothe Russian node.
Figure 4 illustrates the mem-ory representation with this asymetry.
Note that,CURSED RESCUED ADOPTED CAUSEDSALESGIRL KITTEN CHILD ACCIDENTRUSSIAN ~ JAMESBARTLETTFi~.
4 : Verification times in the identificationbefore and identification after conditions in anexperiment that used both proper names and' defin-ire descriptions as referring expressions.according to this representation, subjects shouldbe as fast when verifying an inference predicateof James Bartlett as a direct statement predicate.This is because the proper name is directly attach-ed to both.
In contrast, subjects should be muchslower for an inference predicate to a definitedescription because those predicates have not yetdirectly been attached to node X to which the des-cription is attached.
To verify these questionsinvolves the extra retrieval of the propositionthat node X equals node Y.
Figure 5 presents thedata from one of the experiments (Anderson & Has-tie, 1974) contrasting definite descriptions andproper names.
As predicted there is a large in-ference effect only for definite descriptions inthe after condition.4.00(#J0h i'0')h iI'--Zo 3.00E~ 2.50BEFOREPROPERDEFINITE jDESCRIPTIONAFTERPROPER // DEFINITE ~ DESCRIPTIONI I 1 I DIRECT INFERENCE DIRECT INFERENCE STATEMENT STATEMENTFigure 5.Application to Recognitionof Referring ExpressionThe advantage of the paradigm just reviewedis that the sequence of states of memory is suf-ficiently spread out over time that it is possibleto map out the changes in memory.
I will be pro-posing that there is a similar sequence of memorystates when subjects process referring expressionsas in (3):(3) The first president of the United Stateswas a bad husband.However, the processing happens so rapidly it isnot as easy to verify each state in the sequence.Figure 6 illustrates two possible sequencesof information processing.
Part (a) illustratesthe state of memory right after comprehension of53(a)CHOPPED LEDCHERRY REVOLUTIONARYTREE ~ ARMYGEORGE ist PRESIDENTWASHINGTON OF USAYist PRESIDENTOF USA(b)(c)CHOPPED LEDCHERRY REVOLUTIONARYTREE ARMYGEoR~X~ls t  PRES.WASHINGTON OF USAYiist PRES.OF USACHOPPED LED BADCHERRY REVOLUTIONARY HUSBANDTREE ARMY /GEORGE ist PRES.
ist PRES.WASHINGTON OF USA OF USAFigure 6.
Possible states of memory represenl(d)CHOPPED LED BADCHERRY REVOLUTIONARY HUSBANDTREE ARMY IWASHINGTON OF USA OF USA(e)CHOPPED LED BADCHERRY REVOLUTIONARY HUSBANDX, .~- - -  , yGEORGE 1st PRES.
1st PRES.WASHINGTON OF USA OF USAation during the processing of sentence (3).the definite description.
A node Y has been crea-ted to which there has been attached the "firstpresident of USA" description.
A separate node,X, in memory encodes permanent information aboutGeorge Washington.
Part (a) of Figure 6 illus-trates a situation analagous to the identifica-tion after condition, prior to the identifica-tion statement.
There are two distinct nodes, un-connected, that refer to the same individual.
In-trospectively, it seems clear that at least some-times I comprehend definite descriptions beforerecognizing their referents.
For instance, I un-derstand the description T_h~ ~resident of Francein 1970 long before I decide that this is GeorgePompidou.
The structure surrounding ~ in Part (a)not only provides an embodiment of this pre-iden-tificatlon comprehension, it serves as an encod-ing of the information that is to guide the searchfor a referent.
The ACT theory would use this re-presentation to build a pattern that could bematched to memory to retrieve the referent.
In thecase of a description llke first president of theUSA a direct pattern match should suffice to re-trieve the referent.
In my case for the Presidentof France in 1970 description, a more complex prob-lem solving strategy had to be evolked.Once the description of sentence (3) hasbeen comprehended two things can happen: The sub-ject can proceed to recognize the referent of thedefinite description and he can go on to compre-hend the '~as bad husband" predicate.
Dependingon the order of these two events we will wind upwith slightly different representations in memory.Part (b) of Figure 5 illustrates the state of mem-ory after recognition of the description and be-fore comprehension of the predicate.
As in theafter condition (Part b of Figure i) a link isintroduced encoding the identity of X and Y. Whenthe predicate is comprehended a representation ofits meaning can be attached directly to X, givingthe representation in Part (c) of Figure 6.Part (d) illustrates the state of memorywhen the predicate has been comprehended but thedefinite description has not been identified.
Inthis case the meaning representation of the pred-icate has been attached to node Y.
Part (e) ofFigure 6 illustrates the state of memory when thedefinite description is subsequently recognized.Again a link is introduced indicating the identitybetween X and Y.
The bad husband predicate, whichis active in memory, is copied from Y to X. Thedifference between the final state o~ the recog-nize-description-then-comprehend-predicate se-quence (Part c) and the comprehend-predicate-then-54recognize-description sequence (part e) is that inthe latter case the predicate is attached to bothnodes.
This latter situation is like the situationin the after condition of the previous memory ex-periments.What determines which occurs first -- re-cognition of description or comprehension of pred-icate?
In the ACT model both processes can go onindependently.
It would simply be a race betweentwo independent processes.
Factors such as howquickly the predicate is presented (if spoken) orhow quickly the subject turns to the predicate (ifprinted) will determine the speed of the comprehen-sion success.
The speed of recognizing the des-cription will vary with the difficulty of findingits referent.
It is clear that neither processwaits on the other as witnessed by the sentences:(Ii) The first prime minister of Canada was abad husband.
(12) The first president of the United Statespilacked gibs.In (ii) we comprehend the predicate although wenever find a referent for the subject.
In (12)we find a referent for the subject although wenever comprehend the predicate.Evidence on the Recognition of Referring Expres-sions.Right now the contentious reader might bethinking "Yes, that is a possible model for theprocessing of referring expressions.
Yes, it isconsistent with the model for your earlier memoryexperiments.
Yes, you presented evidence for thatmodel.
But, is there any independent experimentalevidence for this model when applied to the real-time recognition of definite descriptions?"
Be-cause of its rapid real-time characteristics it ishard to provide particularly direct evidence forthis process.
But there are some consistent ex-perimental results:A relevant feature to note about Figure6c is that it preserves no record that the badhusband predicate was asserted via the first pres-ident of USA description.
In contrast Figure 6edoes preserve this information.
Both representa-tions are possible depending on the exact timingof description recognition versus predicate com-prehension.
To the extent that there is a mix-ture of these representations we predict both atendency to make confusions about what referringexpression was used (representation 6c) and thatsubjects will have some residual ability to makethis discrimination (representation 6e).
An ex-periment reported by Anderson and Bower (1973)supports this dual prediction.
They had subjectsstudy sentences llke:(ii) The first president of the United Stateswas a bad husband.
(12) Abraham Lincoln was a good husband.After studying such sentences subjects were askedto chose among alternatives such as the following:(13) The first president of the United Stateswas a bad husband.
(14) George Washington was a bad husband.
(15) The first president of the United Stateswas a good husband.
(16) George Washington was a good husband.These alternatives were presented to the subjectrandomly ordered but I present them here systemat-ically.
Subjects were instructed to indicate theexact sentence that they had studied in which case(13) would be the correct choice.
To the extentthat subjects false alarm more to (14) over (15)or (16), this is evidence for a representation likeFigure 6c where no information is retained aboutthe referring expression used.
To the extent thatsubjects prefer (13) over (14) this is evidencefor a representation like Figure 6e.
Thus, ourpredictions in terms of preference is (13) > (14) >(15) = (16).
The evidence clearly confirms thisprediction with subjects saying that they had seensentences like (13) 65.2% of the time, like (14)21.4% of the time, like (15) 7.2% of the time, andlike (16) 6.3% of the time.
An earlier memorymodel, HAM (Anderson & Bower, 1973) predicted totalconfusion in this situation rather than an inter-mediate level of confusion.
In the recognitionmodel for HAM there was no separate memory struc-ture to encode the referring expression.
Ratherthe referent node was directly retrieved from mem-ory without the intermediate step of calculatinga representation of the referring expression inmemory.Recently Ortony and Anderson (1977) reporta study which replicated and extended this result.They noted that some predicates seemed more appro-priate to a proper name and other predicates seemedmore appropriate to a definite description.
Con-sider their examples:(17) The first man on the moon became a nation-al hero.
(18) Nell Armstrong has several children.
(19) The first man on the moon has severalchildren.
(20) Nell Armstrong became a national hero.Ortony and Anderson point out that the uses in(17) and (18) are somewhat more natural than theuses in (19) and (20).
Correspondingly, theyfound subjects made fewer errors in rememberingwhat the referring expression had been for senten-ces like (17) and (18) than for sentences like(19) and (20).
The error rates were 19.6% versus30.7%.
Note, however, that in both cases subjectsidentified the original referring expression betterthan chance (50%).The Ortony and Anderson result would beexpected under the current theory.
To the extentthat the predicate fits the referring expressionsubjects might attach it to the new node (e.g.,node Y in Figure 5) which has the referring ex-pression attached to it.
As Ortony and Andersonnoted, the HAM theory had no way to explain thisaffinity between certain referring expressions andcertain predicates.
To explain the Ortony and An-derson results in the HAM framework we had toattribute them to a response bias.In the current ACT theory we can explainthis result in terms of the frequency with whichsubjects chose Part (c) versus Part (e) of Figure6.
The claim is that subjects use representationslike Part (e) more frequently when the referringexpression is appropriate.
This is because it iseasier to elaborate on the connection between thereferring expression and the predicate.55Opaque and Transparent_ReferencesThis analysis of reference has a natural ex-tension to analyzing the difference between opaqueand transparent reference.
For instance, contrast:(21) I am looking for the best lawyer intown.
(22) I am looking for my little old mother.While both (21) and (22) might be considered am-biguous, the more apparent interpretation of (21)is that I am looking for someone who fits the des-cription "the best lawyer in town" and that I donot have a particular person in mind.
In contrast,the more apparent interpretation of (22) is that Ido have a particular person in mind.
The former isan instance of opaque reference and the latter isan instance of transparent reference.
Our discus-sion has so far focused on transparent reference.To correctly remember an instance of opaque refer-ence it is critical that it not be treated in thesame manner as transparent reference.
That is,even if the listener knows the reference of "thebest lawyer in town", he should not use the nodefor this reference in representing the meaning of(21).
Rather he should create a new node, attachthe description to it, and put this node in therepresentation of (21).
Figures 7a and 7b illus-trate the different representations appropriatefor (21) and (22).
In Part (a) there are two dis-OTHER PRIOR (a) JOHNFACTS LOOKS I y/FOR XI iBEST LAWYER BEST LAWYERIN TOWN IN TOWN(b)OTHER PRIORFACTS ~ X ~Figure 7:JOHN I ~ L O O K SFORJOHN'S LITTLEOLD MOTHERMemory representation for any instanceof opaque reference (a) and transparentreference (b).tinct nodes preserved to represent the best lawyerin town.
One node (X_) has the prior facts knownabout the person while the second node (Y) storesinformation about the opaque reference in sentence(21).
There is no such distinction in Part (b) ofFigure 7 for the transparent case in (22).
Allinformation is attached to the original node X.So, the difference between transparent and opaquereference is whether the new information is copiedto an existing node.ConclusionsIn concluding this paper I would llke to re-turn to Frege's morning star-evening star example.The discovery that the morning star was the even-ing star was an important scientific result.Frege used this fact to make clear the importantdistinction between sense and reference.
The firsthalf of this paper reported experiments where webasically recreated Frege's example and discoveredthat subjects dealt with that dilemna by the pro-cess of copying from one referring node to another.The argument in the second half of the paper wasthat Frege's examples are not isolated to discov-eries of science or to bizarre psychological ex-periments.
Rather, every time we recognize atransparent referring expression we go through adiscovery like that of the identity between themorning star and evening star.
We create a nodeto represent the referent of the referring expres-sion and only then discover, with varying diffi-culty, that this node has the same reference asan established node in memory.Acknowledgments: Preparation of this manuscriptand the research reported was supported by GrantBNS 76-00959 from the National Science Foundation.I would like to thank Paul Kline for his commentson this manuscript.ReferencesAnderson, J. R. Language, memory and thought.Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Asso-ciates, 1976.Anderson, J. R. Memory for information about indi-viduals.
Memory ~ Cognition, 1977, ~,430-442.Anderson, J. R. & Bower, G. H. Human associativememory.
Washington, DC: HemispherePress, 1973.Anderson, J. R. & Hastie, R. Individuation andreference in memory: Proper names anddefinite descriptions.
Cognitive Psycho-logy, 1974, ~, 495-514.Frege, G. ~er  Sinn und Bedetung.
Zeitschriftf~r Philosophie und philosophlche Kratik,1892, i00 (all).
(Translation availablein P. Geach and M. Black (Eds.
), Transla-tions from the philosophical writings o fGottlob Frege.
Oxford: Basil Blackwell,1960, 56-78).Ortony, A.
& Anderson, R. C. Definite descriptionsand semantic memory.
Cognitive Science,1977, ~, 74-83.56
