Fragments of a Theoryof Human Plausible ReasoningAllan CollinsBolt Beranek and Newman Inc.ABSTRACTThe paper outlines a computational theoryof human plausible reasoning constructed fromanalysis of people's answers to everydayquestions.
Like logic, the theory isexpressed in a content-independent formalism.Unlike logic, the theory specifies howdifferent information in memory affects thecertainty of the conclusions drawn.
Thetheory consists of a dimensionalized space ofdifferent inference types and their certaintyconditions, including a variety ofmeta-inference types where the inferencedepends on the person's knowledge about hisown knowledge.
The protocols from people'sanswers to questions are analyzed in terms ofthe different inference types.
The paper alsodiscusses how memory is structured in multipleways to support the different inference types,and how the information found in memorydetermines which inference types aretriggered.INTRODUCTIONThe goal of this paper is to brieflydescribe a theory of human plausible reasoningI am currently developing (Collins, 1978).The theory is a procedural theory and henceone which can be implemented in a computer, asparts of it have been in the SCHOLAR andMAP-SCHOLAR systems (Carbonell & Collins,1973; Collins & Warnock, 1974; Collins,Warnock, Aiello & Miller, 1975).
The theoryis expressed in the production-rule formalismof Newell (1973).
Unlike logic, the theoryspecifies how different configurations ofinformation affect the certainty of theconclusions drawn.
These certainty conditionsare in fact the major contribution of thetheory.Methodology of Constructing the TheoryTo construct a theory of human plausiblereasoning, I collected about 60 answers toeveryday questions from 4 different subjects.The questions ranged from whether there areblack princess phones to when the respondentfirst drank beer.The analysis of the protocols attempts toaccount for the reasoning and the conclusionsdrawn in the protocols in terms of: I) ataxonomy of plausible inference types, 2) ataxonomy of default assumptions, and 3) whatthe subject must have known a priori.
As willbe evident, this is an inferential analysis.I am trying to construct a deep structuretheory from the surface structure traces ofthe reasoning process.The protocols have the followingcharacteristics.I) There are usually several differentinference types used to answer anyquestion.2) The same inference types recur in manydifferent answers.3) People weigh all the evidence they findthat bears on a question.4) People are more or less certain dependingon the certainty of the information, thecertainty of the inferences, and on whetherdifferent inferences lead to the same oropposite conclusions.I can illustrate some of thesecharacteristics of the protocols as well asseveral of the inference types in the theorywith a protocol taken from a tutorial sessionon South American geography (Carbonell &Collins, 1973):(T) There is some jungle in here (points toVenezuela) but this breaks into a savannaaround the Orinoco (points to the Llanosin Venezuela and Colombia).
(S) Oh right, that is where they grow thecoffee up there?
(T) I don't think that the savanna is used forgrowing coffee.
The trouble is thesavanna has a rainy season and you can'tcount on rain in general.
But I don'tknow.
This area around Sao Paulo (inBrazil) is coffee region, and it is sortof getting into the savanna region there.In the protocol the tutor went throughthe following reasoning on the question ofwhether coffee is grown in the Llanos.Initially, the tutor made a hedged "no"194response for two reasons.
First, the tutordid not have stored that the Llanos was usedfor growing coffee.
Second, the tutor knewthat coffee growing depends on a number offactors (e.g., rainfall, temperature, soil,and terrain), and that savannas do not havethe correct value for growing coffee on atleast one of those factors (i.e., reliablerainfall).
However, the tutor later hedgedhis initial negative response, because hefound some positive evidence.
In particular,he thought the Brazilian savanna might overlapthe coffee growing region in Brazil around SaoPaulo and that the Brazilian savanna mightproduce coffee.
Thus by analogy the Llanosmight also produce coffee.
Hence, the tutorended up saying "I don't know.
"The answer exhibits a number of theimportant aspects of the protocols.
Ingeneral, a number of inferences are used toderive an answer.
Some of these are inferencechains where the premise of one inferencedepends on the conclusion of anotherinference.
In other cases the inferences areindependent sources of evidence.
When thereare different sources of evidence, the subjectweighs them together to determine hisconclusion.It is also apparent in this protocol howdifferent pieces of information are found overtime.
What appears to happen is that thesubject launches a search for relevantinformation (Collins & Loftus, 1975).
Asrelevant pieces of information are found (orare found to be missing), they triggerparticular inferences.
The type of inferenoeapplied is determined by the relation betweenthe information found and the question asked.For example, if the subject knew that savannasare in general good for growing coffee, thatwould trigger a deduction.
If the subjectknew of one savanna somewhere that producedcoffee, that would trigger an analogy.
Thesearch for information is such that the mostrelevant information is found first.
In theprotocol, the more relevant information aboutthe unreliable rainfall in savannas was foundbefore the more far fetched information aboutthe coffee growing region in Brazil and itsrelation to the Brazilian savanna.
Thus,information seems to be found at differenttimes by an autonomous search process, and theparticular information found determinesinferences that are triggered.THE THEORYThe theory specifies a large number ofdifferent inference types, together with theconditions that affect the certainty of eachinference type.
In the theory the differenttypes of inference are arrayed in a fivedimensional space.The dimensions of the inference spaceare :(I) Inferences on Knowledge vs Inferences onMeta-KnowledgeThere are inference patterns based onpeople's knowledge, such as deduction andinduction, and inference patterns based onpeople's knowledge about their own or other'sknowledge (i.e.
meta-knowledge) (Brown, 1977),such as lack-of-knowledge and confusabilityinferences.
I refer to these latter asmeta-inferenees.
They are ubiquitous in theprotocols, and yet they fall outside the scopeof most theories of logic.
The other fourdimensions refer to the space of inferencesbut may also partially apply to the space ofmeta-inferences.
(2) Functional vs Set InferencesFor each type of inference, there is afunctional variation and a set variation.
Theset variation involves mapping the property ofone set (which may be a single-member set orinstance) onto another set.
The functionalvariation has an additional premise that theproperty to be mapped (the dependent variable)depends on other properties, (the independentvariables).
The mapping of the property fromone set to another makes use of thisfunctional dependency.
The set variation, infact, is a degenerate form of the functionalvariation, which is used when people havelittle or no knowledge of the functionaldependencies involved.People's knowledge about functionaldependencies consists of a kind of directionalcorrelation.
A judgment about whether a placecan grow coffee might depend on factors thatare causal precursors for coffee growing(e.g., temperature), correlated factors (e.g.,other types of vegetation), or factorscausally subsequent to coffee growing (e.g.,export trade).
For example, one might decidea place does not produce coffee, because itproduces apples which seem incompatible withcoffee, or because there is little exporttrade from the region.
The directional natureof the correlation shows up in the lastexample.
A region easily could have exporttrade without producing coffee, but it wouldbe unlikely that a region would produce coffeewithout having export trade.
(3) Semantic, Spatial, vs Temporal InferencesFor each type of inference, there is asemantic, spatial, or temporal variation ofthe inference.
Semantic inferences involvemapping properties across semantic space,spatial inferences across Euclidean space, andtemporal inferences across time.
These aretreated as different types of inferences inthe theory because the procedures forcomputing them are somewhat different.Semantic inferences are based on informationstructured in a semantic or conceptual memory(Quillian, 1968; Schank, 1972).
Spatialinferences are based on information (orimages) derived from a spatial structure(Collins & Warnock, 1975; Kosslyn & Schwartz,1977).
Temporal inferences are based oninformation derived from an event (or195episodic) structure (Tulving, 1972).Correlates of each of these types of memorystructures are found in Winograd's SHRDLU(1972).
(4) Superordinate sets, similar sets, vs.subordinate setsInferences can involve mapping propertiesfrom superordinate sets, similar sets, orsubordinate sets.
The property can be mappedfrom one set or from many sets (eitherexhaustively or not).
The different kinds ofmappings delineated in the theory are:(a) Deduction (Superordinate Inferences) mapsproperties of the set onto subsets.
(b) Analogy (Similarity Inferences) mapsproperties from one set to a similar set.
(c) Induction maps properties of subsets of aset onto other subsets.
(d) Generalization (proof-by-cases) mapsproperties of subsets of a set onto theset.
(e) Abduction maps a subset with the sameproperty as some set into the set.
(5) Positive vs.
Negative InferencesEach type of inference has both apositive and negative version, depending onwhether the mapping involves the presence orabsence of a property.Assumptions of the TheoryThe theory rests on a number ofassumptions about the way information isrepresented and processed by people.
I willdescribe briefly what these assumptions are.Semantic Information.
I assumeinformation about different concepts isrepresented in a cross-referenced, semanticstructure (Quillian, 1968; Schank, 1972).
Thenodes in the network are schemas, which arethe kind of structured objects implied by thenotion of frames (Minsky, 1975) or scripts(Schank & Abelson, 1977).
The links betweennodes represent different relations betweenthe concepts.
The correlate of this kind ofsemantic structure in Winograd's SHRDLU (1972)was the cross-referenced information structureconstructed by MICROPLANNER.Spatial Information.
I assume spatialinformation about concepts, such as the size,shape, color, or location of objects andplaces, is represented in a spatial structure,apart from but connected to the semanticstructure (Collins & Warnock, 1974).
Thecorrelate of such a spatial representation inWinograd's SHRDLU (1972) was the Cartesianrepresentation of the blocks on the table top.Event information.
Similarly eventinformation is assumed to be stored in a formthat preserves its temporal, causal, and goalstructure.
This requires a hierarchicalstructure of events and subevents nestedaccording to the goals and subgoals of theactors involved in the events (Brown, Collins,196& Harris, 1978).
Such an event memory wasconstructed by Winograd's SHRDLU (1972) torecord the movements of blocks and the goalsthey accomplished, in order to answer "why"and "how" questions about events in the BlocksWorld.Retrieval.
I assume there are autonomoussearch processes that find relevantinformation with respect to any query (Collins& Loftus, 1975).
The search process hasaccess to semantic, spatial and temporalinformation in parallel, and whenever relevantinformation of any kind is found, it triggersan inference (Collins & Quillian, 1972;Kosslyn, Murphy, Bemesderfer & Feinstein,1977.)
The information found by the searchprocesses determines what inference patternsare applied.Matching Processes.
I assume there aredecision processes for determining whether anytwo concepts can be identified as the same.The semantic matching process could be thatproposed by Collins & Loftus (1975) or bySmith, Shoben & Rips (1974).
The spatialmatching process compares places or objects todecide their spatial relation.
Similarly,there must be a temporal matching process thatdetermines the relation between two events.Importance and CertaintE.
I assume thatfor each concept and relation a person has anotion of its relative importance (i.e.
itscriteriality), and his degree of certaintyabout its truth.
In a computer, these couldbe stored as tags on the concepts andrelations (Carbonell & Collins, 1973).EXAMPLES OF INFERENCE RULES AND PROTOCOLSBecause it is impossible to present theentire theory here, I will give theformulations for three types of inference andshow three protocols which illustrate thesethree types, as well as others.
The threetypes are the lack-of-knowledge inference, thefunctional analogy, and the spatial superpartinference.
They are all common inferences andserve to illustrate the different kinds ofinferences in the theory.The formal analysis of the protocolsattempts to specify all the underlyinginferences that the subject was using in hisresponse.
For the inferences that beardirectly on the question, I have markedwhether they are evidence for a negative orpositive answer.
Where a premise was notdirectly stored, but derived from anotherinference, I have indicated the inference fromwhich it is derived.
I have indicated theapproximate degree of certainty by marking theconclusion with "Maybe", "Probably", orleaving it unmarked.
Where a subject may bemaking a particular inference which theprotocol does not clearly indicate, I havemarked the inference ,possible".
Separatinginferences in this manner is oversimplified,but has the virtue of being understandable.Lack-of-Knowledge InferenceThe lack-of-knowledge inference is themost common of all the meta-inferences.
The'protocol I selected to show thelack-of-knowledge inference shows the subjectusing a variety of meta-inferences to reach aninitial conclusion which he then backs off abit.Q.
Is the Nile longer than the Mekong River?JB.
I think so.Q.JB.Why?Because (pause) in junior high I read abook on rivers and I kept looking for theHudson River because that was the river Iknew about and it never appeared, and theAmazon was in there and the Nile was inthere and all these rivers were in there,and they were big, and long, andimportant.
The Mekong wasn't in there.
(pause) It could be just...Q.
So therefore, it is not important.JB.
That's right.
It could be Just anAmerican view.
At that time the Mekongwasn't so important.I)2)Underlying InferencesFunctional Abduction on Importance Level(Possible)The importance of a river depends in parton how long it isTh_e_Nile is very importantProbablythe Nile is extremely longMeta-Induction From CasesI know the Amazon is extremely longI know the Nile is extremely long (fromI)I would know the Mekong is extremely longif it were3)4)5)Lack-of-Knowledge InferenceI don't know the Mekong is extremely longI would know the Mekong is extremely longif it were (from 2)Probably the Mekong is not extremely longFunctional Abduction on Importance Level(Possible)The importance of a river depends in parton lengthThe Mekong is not very importantProbably the Mekong is not extremely longSimple Comparison (Positive Evidence)The Mekong is not extremely long (from 3and 4)The Nile is extremely long (from I)The Nile is longer than the Mekong1976) Functional Attribution on Importance Level(Possible)The importance of something depends on howremote it isThe Nile is very importantThe Nile is less remote than theMekongMaybe the Nile is more important than theMekong because it's less remote7) Functional Alternative on Importance Level(Negative Evidence) (Possible)The importance of a river depends on howclose it is and how long it isThe Nile is more important than the Mekongbecause it's closer (from 6)Maybe the Nile is not longer than theMekongContributing to the certainty of theseinferences are several meta-inferences workingon importance level.
The functionalabductions (I and 4) are suggested by thesubject's tying length to importance.
Heseems to know that importance depends in parton length,  and since he assigns differentdegrees of importance to the Nile and theMekong, he must be using that in part to inferthat the Mekong is not as long as the Nile.There also is a meta-induction he is making:that since he knows the Amazon and the Nileare very long, he would know the Mekong islong if it were.
This meta-induction isacting on one of the certainty conditions forthe L lack-of-knowledge inference: the moresimilar cases stored with the given property,the more certain the inference.
Takentogether, these inferences make thelack-of-knowledge inference very certain.However at the end the subject backs offhis conclusion because he finds another chainof reasoning that makes him less certain(inferences 6 and 7).
The idea of"remoteness" only represents the underlyingargument when interpreted in terms ofconceptual distance.
What the subject isreally doing is evaluating how remoteSoutheast Asia was at the time he was injunior high (before the Vietnam War).
Thisnotion of remoteness is the outcome ofmatching processes.
The Mekong was remotebecause it was far away culturally,historically, physically, etc.
from America.Based on this the subject realizes that theMekong's lack of importance may be due to thisremoteness rather than its shortness inlength.
His reasoning then depends on hisnotion of what alternative factors importancedepends on, and how it might mislead him inthis case.
So this chain of reasoning is alsoacting on the certainty conditions affectingthe lack-of-knowledge inference, but in theopposite direction from the othermeta-inferenees.The rule for a lack-of-knowledgeinference is shown in the table below.
Itgenerally has the form: If it were true, Iwould know about it; I don't, so it must notbe true.
It is computed by comparing theimportance level of the proposition inquestion against the depth of knowledge aboutthe concepts involved (Collins et al 1975;Gentner & Collins, 1978).Lack-of-Knowledge InferenceI) If a person would know about a property fora given set if it were in a given range,and2) if the person does not know about thatproperty,3) then infer that the property is not in thegiven range for that set.ExampleIf Kissinger were 6'6" tall, I would knowhe is very tall.
I don't, so he must not bethat tall.Conditions that increase certainty:I) The more important the particular set.2) The less likely the property is in thegiven range.3) The more information stored about the givenset.4) The more similar properties stored aboutthe given set.5) The more important the given property.6) The more information stored about the givenproperty.7) The more similar sets stored that have thegiven property.The conditions affecting the certainty ofa lack-of-knowledge inference can beillustrated by the example in the table:I) Condition I refers to the importance of thegiven set.
In the example Kissinger isquite important, so one is more likely toknow whether he is 6'6" than whetherSenator John Stennis is 6' @' for example.2) Condition 2 refers to the likelihood thatthe property is in the given range.Likelihood affects the inference in twoways: low likelihood makes a negativeinference more certain a priori, and lowlikelihood also makes a property moreunusual and therefore more likely to cometo a person's attention.
For example, itis less likely that Kissinger is 7' 2" than6' 6", because 7' 2" is more unusual.
IfKissinger were a basketball player, on theother hand, his being 6' 6" would not beunusual at all.3) Condition 3 relates to thedepth-of-knowledge about the given set.The more one knows about Kissinger, themore certainly one would know that he is 6'6", if he is.4) Condition 4 relates to the number ofsimilar properties stored about the set(i.e.
the relatedness of the informationknown about the set).
If one knows a lotabout Kissinger's physical appearance, onefeels more certain one would know he isextremely tall, if he is.5) Condition 5 relates to the importance ofthe particular property.
Being extremelytall isn't as important as missing a legsay, so people are more likely to know ifKissinger is missing a leg.6) Condition 6 relates to thedepth-of-knowledge about the particularproperty.
For example, a person who hasparticular expertise about the physicalstature of people is more likely to knowthat Kissinger is extremely tall, if he is.7) Condition 7 relates to the number ofsimilar sets known to have the givenproperty.
For example, if one knows thatEd Muskie and Tip O'Neil are unusuallytall, then one ought to know that Kissingeris unusually tall, if in fact he is 6' 6".Functional AnalogyThe initial protocol on coffee growing inthe Llanos illustrated two functionalinferences: a functional calculationconcerning rainfall, and a functional analogybetween the Brazilian savanna and the Llanos.One of the more common functional inferencesis the functional analogy.
The protocol Iselected to illustrate it contrasts the use ofa simple analogy and a functional analogy.Q.
Can a goose quack?BF.
No, a goose - Well, its like a duck, butits not a duck.
It can honk, but to sayit can quack.
No, I think its vocal cordsare built differently.
They have a beakand everything, but no, it can't quack.Underlying InferencesI) Simple Analogy (Positive Evidence)A goose is similar to a duckA duck quacksMaybe a goose quacks2) Importance-Level Inequality (Possible)I know a goose honksQuacking is as important as honkingProbably I would know about a goosequacking if it did3) Lack-of-Knowledge Inference (NegativeEvidence) (Possible)I don't know that a goose quacksI would know about a goose quacking if i tdid (from 2)Probably a goose doesn't quack4) Negative Functional Analogy (NegativeEvidence)The sound a bird makes depends on its vocalcordsA goose is different from a duck in itsvocal cordsA duck quacksProbably a goose doesn't quackThe simple analogy, which is based on amatch of all the properties of ducks andgeese, leads to the possible conclusion that agoose can quack, because a duck quacks.
Thisinference shows up in the reference to "itslike a duck" and in the uncertainty of thenegative conclusion the student is drawing.It is positive evidence and only shows up tothe degree it argues against the generalnegative conclusion.198The importance-level inequality andlack-of-knowledge inference are suggested bythe sentence "It can honk, but to say it canquack."
Here knowledge about honking seems toimply that a goose doesn't quack.
I wouldargue that such an inference has to involvethe lack-of-knowledge inference, since it ispossible that a goose might sometimes honk andsometimes quack.The functional analogy is apparent in theconcern about vocal cords, which the subjectthinks are the functional determinants of thesounds made.
I think the sound is determinedby the length of the neck, which is probablywhat the subject was thinking of.
Honking mayjust be quacking resonated through a longertube.
But in any case, the mismatch thesubject finds on the relevant factor leads toa negative conclusion which supports thelack-of-knowledge inference.The table shows the rule for a functionalanalogy.Functional Analog?I) If a dependent variable depends on a numberof independent variables, and2) if one set matches another set on theindependent variables, and3) if the value of the dependent variable forone set is in a.given range,4) then infer that the value of the dependentvariable for the other set is in the givenrange.ExampleThe Brazilian savanna is like Llanos inits temperature, rainfall, soil, andvegetation.
Thus, if the Brazilian savannaproduces coffee, then the Llanos ought toalso.CQnditions that increase certainty:I) The more independent variables on which thetwo sets match, and the fewer on which theymismatch.2) The greater the dependency on anyindependent variables on which the two setsmatch, and the less the dependency on anyindependent variables that mismatch.3) The better the match on any independentvariable.4) The greater the dependency on thoseindependent variables that match best.5) The more certain the dependent variable isin the given range for the one set.6) The more likely the value of the dependentvariable is in the given range a priori.7) The more certain the independent variablesare in the given ranges for both sets.I can illustrate the different certaintyconditions for a functional analogy in termsof the example in the table:I) Condition I refers to the number offactors on which the two sets match.
Ifthe two regions match only in climateand vegetation, that would be lessstrong evidence that they produce thesame products than if they match on allfour variables.1992) Condition 2 refers to the degree thedependent variable depends on differentfactors that match or mismatch.
Coffeegrowing depends more on temperature andrainfall than on soil or vegetation.Thus a match on these first two factorsmakes the inference more certain than amatch on the latter two factors.3) Condition 3 relates to the quality ofthe match on any factor.
The better thematch with respect to temperature,rainfall, etc.
the more certain theinference.4) Condition 4 refers to the degree ofdependency on those factors that matchbest.
A good match with respect to therainfall pattern leads to more certaintythan a good match with respect to thevegetation.5) Condition 5 relates to the certaintythat the property is in the given rangefor the first set.
The more certain oneis that the Brazilian savanna producescoffee, the more certain the inference.6) Condition 6 relates to the a priorilikelihood that the property will be inthe given range.
The more likely thatany region grows coffee, the morecertain the inference.7) Condition 7 relates to the certaintythat the factors are in the given rangesfor both sets.
For example, the morecertain that both savannas have the sametemperature, etc., the more certain theinference.Spatial Superpart Inferenc~The theory assumes that spatialinferences are made by constructing an imageof the concepts involved, and making variouscomputations on that image (Collins & Warnock,1974; Kosslyn & Schwartz, 1977).
An exampleof a spatial inference occurred in the earlierprotocol about coffee growing, when therespondent concluded that a savanna might beused for growing coffee because he thought thecoffee growing region around Sao Paulo mightoverlap the Brazilian savanna.
This spatialmatching process, which occurs in a variety ofprotocols, involves constructing a spatialimage with both concepts in it, and findingtheir spatial relationship (e.g., degree ofoverlap, relative size or direction) from theconstructed image.The protocol I selected illustrates aspatial subpart inference, together withseveral other spatial and meta-inferences.Q.
Is Texas east of Seattle?JB.
Texas is south and east of Seattle.Q.
How did you get that?JB.
I essentially looked at a visual image ofthe U.S. where I remembered that Seattlewas in Washington and know that its up inthe left corner and I know that Texas isin the middle on the bottom.
Sometimesyou get fooled by things like that, likefor example Las Vegas being further westthan San Diego.
This case I think we'reO.K.I)Underl~in~ inferencesSpatial line slope inference?
Washington is in upper left corner of theU.S.Te%as is on the middle bottom of U.S.Line from Washington to Texas slopes east.2) Spatial subpart inference (Positiveevidence)Line "from Washington to Texas slopes east.Seattle is part of Wash.ington.Line from Seattle to Texas slopes east3) Meta Analogy (Negative evidence)People are often mistaken in thinking thatLas Vegas is east of San Diego, becauseLas Vegas is inland and San Diego is onthe Pacific Coast.Seattle, like San Diego, is on the Pacificcoast.Texas, like Las Vegas, is inland.Maybe I am mistaken in thinking that Texasis east of Seattle.4) Functional Modus Tollens (Positiveevidence) (possible)The Pacific coast misconception depends onthe inland place being north of thecoastal place.Seattle is on the coast.Texas is inland.Texas is south of Seattle.The Pacific coast misconception does notapply to Texas and Seattle.In the protocol the subject constructs aline from Washington to Texas for the purposeof evaluating its slope.
The constructed linedoes slope east, so he answers yes.
Implicitin this protocol is a spatial subpartinference or spatial deduction, that Seattleis part of Washington and the slope of theline found earlier applies to Seattle.
Thiskind of subpart inference was found to show upin response time by Stevens (1976).The subject briefly reconsidered hisconclusion because he thought of the "PacificCoast Misconception," that people mistakenlythink that places inland are always east ofplaces on the coast.
By the meta-analogy in3, he inferred that maybe Seattle-Texas waslike San Diego-Las Vegas in that the inlandlocation was west of the coastal location.But the subject ruled out the analogy by someinference such as that shown in 4.
Actually,the functional modus tollens in 4 hides thespatial processing that the subject probablyused to rule out the analogy in 3.
Probably,he knew that the reason for the "Pacific CoastMisconception" has to do with thesoutheasterly slant of the Pacific coast.
Byknowing that, you can figure out that themisconception depends on the inland locationbeing north of the coastal location.
I havefinessed the spatial reasoning process bystating that conclusion as a premise in 4.The next table shows the rule for aspatial superpart inference (or spatialdeduction).Spatial Sunerpart InferenceI) If a property is in a given range for someset, and2) if another set is a subpart of that set,3) then infer that the property is in thatrange for the subpart.ExampleIt is raining in New England and Bostonis in New England.
Therefore it may beraining in Boston.Conditions that increase certaintv:I) The more central the subpart is to the set.2) The greater the average spatial extent ofthe property.3) The greater the distance of the nearest setwith a contradictory property.4) The greater the extent of the subpartwithin the set.5) The more likely a priori that the propertyis in the given range for the subpart.6) The more certain the property is in thegiven range for the set.The certainty conditions can be illustrated interms of the example in the table:I) Condition 1 relates to the centrality ofthe subpart.
For example, if it's rainingin New England it is more likely to beraining in Massachusetts than Maine becauseMassachusetts is more central.2) Condition 2 relates to whether the propertytends to be spatially distributed or not.For example, rain tends to be distributedover smaller areas than electric service,so it is a less certain inference that itis raining in Maine than that there iselectric service in Maine, given that theproperty applies to New England.3) Condition 3 relates to the distance to thenearest concept with a contradictoryproperty.
For example, if you know it'snot raining in New Brunswick, that isstronger evidence against it's raining inMaine than if it's not raining in Montreal.Condition 4 relates to the extent of thesubpart.
For example, if it's raining inNew England it is more likely to be rainingin Rhode Island than in Boston, becauseRhode Island is larger.5) Condition 5 relates to the a priorilikelihood of the property, for example,if it's raining in Washington State, it'smore likely to be raining in Seattle thanin Spokane because Seattle gets more rainon the average.6) Condition 6 relates to the person'scertainty that the property holds for theconcept.
For example, the more certain theperson is that it is raining in NewEngland, the more certain that it's rainingin Boston.4)CONCLUSIONThe theory I am developing is based onthese and similar analyses of a large numberof human protocols.
Because the sameinference types recur in many differentanswers, it is possible to abstract thesystematic patterns in the inferences200themselves, and many of the differentconditions that affect people's certainty inusing different inference types.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI want to thank my colleagues who haveinfluenced my views about inference over theyears: namely Marilyn Adams, Nelleke Aiello,John Seely Brown, Jaime Carbonell, DedreGentner, Mark Miller, Ross Quillian, AlbertStevens, and Eleanor Warnock.
I particularlywould like to thank Marilyn Adams forencouraging me to fit the inference types intoa dimensionalized space, and John Seely Brownfor bullying me into stating the rules andprotocol analyses in a form understandable toreaders.This research was supported in part bythe Advanced Research Projects Agency of theDepartment of Defense under Contract No.
MDA903-77-C-0025, and in part by a fellowshipfrom the John Simon Guggenheim MemorialFoundation.REFERENCESBrown, A. L. Knowing when, where & how toremember.
In R. Glaser (Ed.
), Advances ininstructional psychology.
Hillsdale, NJ:Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1977, inpress.Brown, J.S., Collins, A., & Harris, G.Artificial intelligence and learningstrategies.
To appear in H.F.
O'Neil(Ed.
), Learning strategies.
New York:Academic Press, 1978, in press.Carbonell, J.R. & Collins, A. NaturalSemantics in Artificial Intelligence.Proceedings of Third International_ Jpin~Conference on Artificial Intelligence,1973, pp.
344-351.
(Reprinted in theAmerican Journal of ComputationalL~nguistics, 1974, I, Hfc.
3).Collins, A.
& Warnock, E.H. Semanticnetworks.
BBN Report No.
3 ~3, BoltBeranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, Mass.,1974.Collins, A. M. & Loftus, E. F. A spreadingactivation theory of semantic processing.Psyc_hological Review, 1975, 82, 407-42 8.Collins, A., Warnock, E.H., Aiello, N. &Miller, M.L.
Reasoning from IncompleteKnowledge, in D. Bobrow & A.
Collins(eds.).
Representation.
& understanding.New York: Academic Press, 1975.Collins, A.M., & Quillian, M.R.
Experimentson semantic memory and languagecomprehension.
In L.W.
Gregg (Ed.
),Cognit ion in learning and memory.
NewYork: Wiley, 1972.Collins, A.M., Adams, M.J. & Pew, R.W.
TheEffectiveness of an interactive mapdisplay in tutoring geography.
Journal QfEducational Psychology, 1978, 7D, I-7.201Gentner, D., & Collins, A.
Knowing aboutknowing: Effects of meta-knowledge oninference.
Submitted to CognitivePsychology.Kosslyn, S.M., & Schwartz, S.P.
A simulationof visual imagery.
Cognitive Science,1977, i, 265-295.Kosslyn, S.M., Murphy, G.L., Bemesderfer,M.E., & Feinstein, K.J.
Category andcontinuum in mental comparisons.
Journalof Experimental Psychology: General, 1977,106, 341-375.Minsky, M. A framework for representingknowledge.
In P. H. Winston (Ed.
), Theosxehologv of computer vision.
New York:McGraw-Hill, 1975.Quillian, M. R. Semantic memory.
In M.
Minsky(Ed.
), S_emantic information processing.Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT Press, 1968.Schank, R. Conceptual Dependency: A Theory ofNatural Language Understanding, Cognit%vePsychology, 1972, ~, 552-631.Schank, R. & Abelson, R. Scripts, plans,goals, and understanding.
Hillsdale, N.J.:Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1977.Smith, E.E., Shoben, E.J., & Rips, L.J.Comparison processes in semantic memory.Psychological Review, 1974, 81, 214-241.Stevens, A.L.
The role of inference andinternal structure in the representationof spatial information.
Doctoraldissertation.
University of California atSan Diego, 1976.Tulving, E. Episodic & semantic memory.
In E.Tulving & W. Donaldson (Eds.
),Qrga~ni%at\[on & memory.
New York: AcademicPress, 1972.Winograd, T. Understanding_natural language.New York: Academic Press, 1972.
