FOCUSING IN DIALOG IBarbara J. GroszArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI International, Menlo Park, California 94025A.
IntroductionWhen two people talk, they focus theirattention on only a small portion of what each ofthem knows or believes.
Not only do theyconcentrate on particular entities (objects orrelationships), but they do so using particularperspectives on those entities.
In choosing aparticular set of words with which to describe anentity, a speaker indicates a perspective on thatentity.
The hearer is led, then, to see theentity more as one kind of thing than as another.For example, a single building may be viewed as anarchitectural wonder, a house, or a home, and asingle event may be viewed at one time as aselling, another as a buying, and still another asa trading.
Some entities are central to thedialog at a certain point and hence are focused onmore sharply than others.
More importantly, muchof what each participant knows is not clearly inview at all; it is not considered by the speakerin choosing what to say or how to say it, or bythe hearer in interpreting an utterance.Focusing is an active process.
2 As a dialogprogresses, the participants shift their focus tonew entities or to new perspectives on entitiespreviously highlighted by the dialog.Furthermore, an actor is involved in focusing (asthe term is used in this paper): if an entity isin focus, it is the object of someone's focusing;it cannot be impersonally in focus.
When I usethe constructions "highlighted", "focused on", or"in focus", there is always an implicit actordoing the highlightin E or focusin E. Finally, theentities that the speaker and hearer focus on areentities in their (external) shared reality.Focusing, then, is the active process, engaged inby the participants in a dialog, of concentratingattention on, or highlighting, a subset of theirshared reality.The relationship between language andfocusing is two-way: what is said influencesfocusing; what is focused on influences what issaid.
The speaker provides clues for the hearerboth to what s/he is currently focused on and towhat s/he wants to focus on next.
These clues maybe linguistic or may derive from shared linguisticor nonlinguistic knowledge.
The hearer depends onI The work reported herein was supported by theNational Science Foundation under Grant No.
MCS76-22004 and by the Advanced Research ProjectsAgency of the Department of Defense under ContractNo.
N00039-78-C-0060.
I would like to thank JerryHobbs, David Levy, Ann Robinson, Jane Robinson,Candy Sidner, and Brian Smith for discussing theideas in this paper and commenting on variousdrafts of it.2 This is the reason the verb "focusing" ratherthan the noun "focus" is used most often in thispaper .shared beliefs about what entities are highlightedto interpret such things as the appropriate senseof a particular word and the object or eventcorresponding to a definite description.
The linkbetween the entities discussed in an utterance andthe entities focused on when the utterance isspoken is thus an important aspect both ofproducing and of interpreting that utterance.The use and interpretation of definitedescriptions in dialog demonstrate the importanceof focusing to dialog participants.
3 This paperexamines the relationship between focusing anddefinite description and the implications of thisrelationship for computer systems for dialogunderstanding.
Section B presents an example thatillustrates this relationship.
Section Cdiscusses definite descriptions from both thespeaker's and the hearer's perspectives andpresents problems that arise for both participantswhose solutions are influenced by how theparticipants are focused.
Section D addressessome problems that arise in oomputationallycapturing the notion of focusing and discussesother aspects of dialog with which focusingmechanisms must be coordinated in a naturallanguage processing system, in order to handle theproblems introduced in the preceding sections.B.
An Exampl~To begin, I want to examine a sample dialogbetween two people, an expert and an apprentice,cooperating to complete a task.
It illustratesseveral important aspects of the role of focusingin communication.
The sample comes from a corpusof task-oriented dialogs collected in situationssimulating direct interaction between a person anda computer (Grosz, 1977; Deutsch, 1974).
~ Theparticular task being performed is disassembly ofan air compressor.
(I) E: First you have to remove the flywheel.
(2) A: How do I remove the flywheel?
(3) E: First, loosen the two allen head setscrewsholding it to the shaft, then pull it off.
(4) A: OK.(5) I can only find one screw.
Where's theother one?
(6) E: On the hub of the flywheel.
(7) A: That's the one I found.
Where's the otherone?
(8) E: About ninety degrees around the hub fromthe first one.
(9) A: I don't understand.
I can only find one.Oh wait, yes I think I was on the wrongwheel.3 Although I will concentrate on dialog, much ofwhat I have to say carries over to other forms ofdiscourse.4 For most of these dialogs the expert andapprentice had only limited visual contact.96(10) E:(11) A:(12)(13) E:(14) A:(15) E:(16) A:(17)(18)(19) E:(20) A:(21) E:(22) A:(23) E:(24) A:(25) E:Show me what you are doing.I was on the wrong wheel and I can findthem both now.The tool I have is awkward.
Is thereanother tool that I could use instead?Show me the tool you are using.OK.Are you sure you are using the right sizekey?I'll try some others.I found an angle I can get at it.The two screws are loose, but I'm havingtrouble getting the wheel off.Use the wheelpuller.
Do you know how touse it?No.Do you know what it looks like?Yes.Show it to meplease.OKGood.
Loosen the screw in the center andplace the jaws around the hub of thewheel, then tighten the screw onto thecenter of the shaft.
The wheel shouldslide off.First, consider the use of the phrase "thetwo screws" in (18) to refer to the two setscrewsholding the pulley on its shaft and the use of thephrases "the screw in the center" and "the screw"in (25) to refer to a part of the wheelpuller.
5Since most objects do not have proper names,definite descriptions are a primary means ofidentifying objects.
However, as in this dialog,the same description may be used to identifydifferent objects at different times.
When (25)was uttered, the two screws mentioned in (3)through (18) were the most recently mentionedobjects that could be referred to by a phrase suchas "the screw", but they were no longer focused onby the dialog participants -- they were no longerrelevant to either the dialog or the task -- andhence were not considered as possible referentsfor either "the screw in the center" or "thescrew" in (25).One can see in this example that the mostrecently mentioned object that satisfies adescription may not be the object identified bythat description.
What entities a speaker andhearer are focused on influences both the kinds ofdescriptions they use and how their descriptionsare interpreted.
In utterance (3), the expertindicates that he is focused on, and concurrentlygets the apprentice to focus on, the two subtasksinvolved in removing the pulley.
In particular,the two allen head setscrews involved in the firsttask are brought into focus; they continue to bein focus through the first part of (18).
Theinitial clause of (18) indicates the completion ofthe task involving the screws and hence suggeststhat the apprentice will shift her attention tosome new task (she might not -- she could stillsay something more about the screws).
She does5 The modifying phrase "in the center" does notdistinguish the main wheelpuller screw from thesetscrews, but from other screws that are part ofthe wheelpuller.make such a shift in the second clause of (18)("but I'm having trouble getting the wheel off").In (19), the expert indicates that be has followedthis shift (note that he might have asked aquestion about the screws -- e.g., "How loose arethey?"
-- and thereby continued to focus on themand the associated task) and narrows focusing fromthe task of removing the flywheel to a particulartool involved in that task.
In this context, itis clear that the phrase "the screw" cannot referto either of ~he setscrews, but must refer tosomething else.This dialog also indicates some of the waysin which focusing is manipulated in a dialog.
Inparticular, it illustrates how the structure ofthe entities being discussed (the 'domain')influences focusing and hence the structure of thediscourse.
The dialog concerns the performance ofa task; its topic is that task.
As a result, theway in which the apprentice and expe~t focus, andhence the structure of the dialog, Y are closelylinked to the structure of the task.
Informationabout the structure of entities in the domainprovides one kind of clue to how focusing canchange.
What about general linguistic clues tofocusing?
What information in words themselves orin sentence structure can influence focusing?
Theuse of "but" in (18) illustrates one kind oflinguistic clue to focus.
The indication ofcontrast suggests a shifting of focus to theentities described in the clause following the"but".
In fact, this shift does occur and theremainder of the fragment concerns things involvedwith "getting the wheel off".
VThe final point I want to make with respectto this fragment concerns the relationship betweenhow the speaker and hearer are focused and howdifferences in focusing affect understanding.
Itis clearly crucial for speaker and hearer to beable to distinguish their own beliefs from eachother's.
What about focus?
I am concerned herenot with the consistent difference in focusing6 It is interesting that some people who are notfamiliar with the compressor or wheelpuller findthis sequence confusing: (18) seems to end anyconcern with screws and hence (25) isunintelligible.
One must know -- or infer -- thatthe wheelpuller has a screw for the statement tomake sense.7 The concept of structure used here is similar tothat in Levy (1977), but different from that inwork on story and text grammars (cf.
vanDijk 1972;Rumelhart 1975).
In particular, I am notinterested in such things as generating orrecognizing a valid dialog (the analogy tosentence grammars), but rather in those dynamicaspects of intersentential relationships such asfocusing that influence the interpretation andgeneration of utterances in a dialog.8 One of the key open problems for incorporatingfocusing mechanisms in natural language processingsystems is identifying the different kinds ofclues to focusing and how they interact.
Someaspects of this problem are discussed inSection D.97that results from the speaker being one step aheadof the hearer (closing this gap is one goal of anutterance), but rather with whether speaker andhearer purposely maintain differences in focusingover several interactions (as they do withbeliefs).
An analysis of the dialogs we collectedindicates that, in most cases, whether or not aspeaker and hearer are focused similarly, theyspeak as.
though they were.
Speaker and hearerassume a common focus; they usually do not havedistinct models of each other's focus.
That is,the speaker assumes that the hearer inunderstanding an utterance has followed any shiftin focus indicated by that utterance and is, tothe extent it matters, focused on the entities thespeaker intended (from the perspective the speakerintended).
It is only when a difference infocusing results in some fairly majorincompatibility that a problem is detected.
Theinterchange in (5) through (11) illustrates whathappens when the two participants in a dialogbelieve erroneously that they are focused on thesame entity.
Initially, the apprentice is focusedon the motor pulley, which she thinks is theflywheel.
Because the expert is not aware of this(he probably doesn't even consider thepossibility), his responses are not very helpful.C.
Description~One of the key ways in which the influence offocusing on dialog is manifest is in the definitedescriptions used.
There is a two-way interactionbetween definite descriptions and focusing: whatentities a speaker and hearer concentrate on (andfrom what perspectives) influences how theydescribe entities, and how entities are describedinfluences how the speaker and hearer continue tofocus their attention.
Two specific problemsrelating to descriptions are strongly influencedby focusing.
From the speaker's perspective,there is the problem of what to include in adescription.
From the bearer's perspective, thereis the problem of what to do when a descriptiondoesn't correspond to any known entity, when itdoesn't "match" anything.1.
Generating DescriptionsThree factors that influence theproduction of a description are: the informationspeaker and hearer share about the entity beingdescribed, the perspectives they have on it, andthe use of redundancy.
The following fragment ofdialog illustrates the first two of thesefactors.
9E: OK. Now we need to attach the conduit tothe motor.
The conduit is the coveringaround .the wires that you ~=~wereworking with earlier.
There is a smallpart ~ .
.
.
oh brotherA: Now wait a s .
.
.
the conduit is the coverto the wires?E: Yes and .
.
.9 This segment also illustrates the cooperativenature of task-orlented dialogs: the twoparticipants work together to achieve a sharedgoal of identifying the object the expert wantsthe apprentice to locate.A: Oh I see, there's a part that .
.
.a partthat's supposed to go over it.E: Yes.A: I see .
.
.
it looks j~st the right shap~too.
Ah hah!
Yes.E: Wonderful, s ince!d id  no_~know how t_~odescribe the part.The problem that arises here is thatthere is no simple shape-based description for theobject the expert needs to identify, so he mustfind some other shared information on which tobase his description (cf.
Downing, 1977;Chafe, 1977).
The problem is complicated becausethe expert and apprentice do not share a visualfield.
If they did, the expert could point (ifthey and the object being pointed at were all inthe same location) or use relative location (~.g.,"it's next to the red-handled screwdriver").
"U Theexpert's solution in this case is to anchor thedescription on the basis of a past action theapprentice performed and then to describe theobject functionally (i.e., to describe itsfunction rather than its shape).
Functionaldescriptions often enable bypassing other morecomplex descriptions.
The statement "it is usedfor doing x" or "it has the right shape for doingx" may be used to communicate complex shapes andstructures.
As always, the success of suchdescriptions depends on the hearer's ability todetermine what such an object is like, or to pickout the object from a set.The fragment also illustrates theproblems that arise when two participants in adialog have different perspectives on what isbeing described.
The expert's orientation isbasically functional; he has a model of what isgoing on, of how the compressor works, and of howit goes together.
His descriptions are based onthis model.
The apprentice's orientation isbasically visual or shape-based.
He can see theparts and can tell by trying whether they fit.This discrepancy is even clearer in the followingfragment, where from the functional perspective ofthe expert we get the descriptions "pump" and"cooling fins", while from the shape-basedperspective of the apprentice, the same objectsare described as "thing with flanges" and "littleribby things-:E: Remove the pump and the belt.A: Is this thing with flanges on it the pump?E: Point at "the thing with flanges on it"please.A: I'm pointing at the thing with flanges on it.These little ribby ~hings are flanges.E: Yes, the thing you are pointing at is thepump.
The little ribby things are coolingfins.In this fragment, one can see the expert andapprentice working toward a shared view, trying to10 Rubin (1978) describes spatlal and temporalcommonality between speaker and hearer as twodimensions along which language experiences maydiffer and considers how these dimensions affectthe interpretation of deictic expressions.98establish, or check that they have establish@d, acommon referent and hence a common focus.
11 Animplicit goal in a dialog is to establish thiscommonality -- the effort this requires is veryclear here.
One of the ways in whichmisunderstandings arise is when the participantsin a dialog fail to establish this commonality butthink they have (this happened with the flywheeland motor pulley in the initial dialog fragment).Not only do such mismatches occur, they aredifficult to detect and often go unnoticed until afairly major problem arises.A further problem that arises inproducing a description is deciding how muchinformation to include in it.
The linguisticdescription of an object must distinguish it fromall others currently focused on by the speaker andhearer.
"~ But the situation is more complicatedthan this.
It is clear from an analysis of thetask-oriented dialogs and from other data(Freedle, 1972) that the description of an objectseldom contains only the minimal amount ofinformation necessary to distinguish it .Descriptions, like the rest of language, are oftenredundant, lj What appears to be the case forphysical objects is that the speaker describes anobject not in the minimum number of 'bits' ofinformation, but rather in a manner that willenable the hearer to locate the object as quicklyas possible.
Clear distinguishing features (e.g.,color, size, and shape) are part of a descriptionprecisely because they eliminate large numbers ofwrong objects and hence help the hearer to isolatethe correct object more quickly.The use of redundant information (andnot Just distinguishing information) to speed upthe search for a referent can be seen easily froman example.
If someone asks "What tool should Iuse?"
the response "The red-handled one."
maynot be satisfactory even if there is only one red-handled tool, because processing such a11 There is a clear indication at the end of theprevious fragment that the expert realizes theimportance of shape in the apprentice'sorientation: he says he didn't know how todescribe the part, apparently meaning that hedidn't have a description of its shape (he diddescribe it functionally and in fact that seems tohave worked Just fine).12 Olson (1970) has shown that the description ofan object changes depending on the surroundingobjects from which it must be distinguished.
Forexample, the same flat, round, white object wasdescribed as "the round one" when a flat, squareobject of similar size and material was present,but as "the white one" when a similarly shaped butblack object was present.
The importance ofcontrast for distinguishing objects is wellestablished in vision research (e.g.,Gregory, 1966).
Comparison of differences hasalso played a crucial role in computer programsthat reason analogically (Evans, 1963; similarstrategies are used in Winston,1970).13 Olson, 1970, p.266, comments on this phenomenonand on the need for further investigation of it.description requires considering too manyalternatives.
The phrase "the red-handledscrewdriver" is more helpful, because it limitsthe search to screwdrivers.
In giving adescription that minimizes the time it takes thehearer to identify the referent of a referringexpression, a balance must be reached.
Too muchinformation is as harmful as too little, since allparts of the description must be processed to makesure the object is the correct one.
Furthermore,the hearer may wonder whether he is mistaken if hethinks he has determined the referent but there ismore description to process (c f .
Grice, 1975).Using the phrase, "the red-handled screwdriverwith the small chip on the bottom and a loosehandle" to identify the only red-handledscrewdriver will probably both increase thebearer's search time and confuse him.
Rather thanminimize either the communication time (includingprocessing of the description) or the search timealone, the combination of communication time andsearch time must be minimized.
A speaker shouldbe redundant only to the degree that redundancyreduces the total time involved in identifying thereferent.2.
Matching ~ Descrip~iQnAs the preceding discussion illustrates,a major role of descriptions is to point; thespeaker is directing the hearer's attention tosome entity.
For the hearer, focusing is crucialin providing a small set of items from which tochoose that entity.
Being able to so restrictattention is necessary both for identifying thecorrect referent (as the interpretation of thephrase "the screw" in the initial dialog fragmentillustrates) and constraining search time (seeGrosz 1977).One problem that arises for a hearer,especially a computer system in the role ofhearer, is what to do when a reference does notcorrespond to (or match) any known entity.
If thedescription suffices to distinguish the entitybeing pointed at from others that are currentlyfocused on, then the mismatch does not matter.But, what does "suffice to distinguish" mean?
Thequestion of what kind of mismatch is significantdepends on more than the entities in focus.
Forexample, the difference between yellow and greenmay not matter when a yellow-green shirt is beingdistinguished from a red one; it does matter whenpicking lemons.In addition, the hearer  must decidewhether or not an inexact match should even beconsidered.
In the usual use of definitedescriptions, to identify some entity in thedomain of discourse, inexact matches are alwaysacceptable.
Donellan (1966) distinguishes thisreferential use from an attributive use for whichan inexact match is not possible: "In theattributive use, the attribute of being the so-and-so is all important, while it is not in thereferential use" (p. I02).
But the distinction inthe terms that Donnellan makes it poses a problemfor a hearer, since it is t~  speaker's intent andnot the speaker's beliefs "~ that distinguishes99attributive from referential uses of adescription.
This means that the hearer (whethera person or a computer system) must be able todetect this intent.
In certain cases (forexample, descriptions of entities that do not yetexist), the attributive use is usually clear.
Inusing the phrase, "the winner of the 1979 NobelPeace Prize", a speaker is describing a personwhose identity is not yet known; the~ is no otherway to describe that person (yet).
I~ There areother instances in which the distinction relies onknowledge outside the dialog in which thereference occurs (in particular, what the hearerbelieves the speaker wants).
It seems that forthis problem the dialog participants must rely onthe potential for clarification available infurther dialog.
If a hearer misinterprets anattributive use of a description, the speaker c~explicitly indicate the need for an exact match.
"vTo summarize, the importance of focusingto both the interpretation and the generation ofdefinite descriptions comes from the highlightingfunction it serves.
By separating those itemscurrently highlighted from those that aren't,focusing provides a boundary around the entitiesfrom which the entity being either described oridentified must be distinguished.
For generationpurposes, this boundary circumscribes those itemsfrom which the entity being described must bedistinguished, and thus provides some means ofdetermining when a description is complete enough.It is useful for interpretation in providing asmall set of items from which to choose.
If anexact match cannot be found in focus, it isreasonable to ask if any of the items in focuscomes close to matching the definite descriptionand if so, which is the closest.D.
Focus in Discourse: Prospects and ProblemsThe major implication of the role of focusingin dialog for a natural language processing systemis that such a system needs mechanisms forfocusing.
In particular, suppose the system has aknowledge base which encodes the portion of theworld the system knows about, and that thisknowledge base contains formal elements whichstand for entities in that world.
Then the systemneeds a means of highlighting those elements inits knowledge base that correspond to the entities14 "A definite description can be usedattributively even when the speaker believes thatsome particular person fits the description, andit can be used referentially in the absence ofthis belief."(p.
111)15 There is, of course, the possibility that thespeaker meant to say 1977, in which case s/he isreferring (wrongly) to an existing entity, butthen we are back with the referential case.16 I have ignored a third issue that arises whenconsidering a computer system for natural languageprocessing: the formalism used for encodingknowledge in the system must be adequate forhandling attributive descriptions.
For adiscussion of this issue, see Cohen, 1978 andWebber, 1978.currently focused on and must be able both to usethis highlighting (for example, to interpret andgenerate descriptions) and to change itappropriately as the dialog progresses.
Thissection presents several issues that arise inconstructing such a computational model and foreach discusses what structures and procedures areneeded and what research issues must be resolved.Grosz (1977) describes focusing mechanismsincorporated in a computer system forunderstanding task-oriented dialogs.
Theseinclude structures for highlighting elements of aknowledge base, operations on those structures,procedures that use them for interpreting definitenoun phrases, and procedures for updating them.The implementation provides for two kinds ofhighlighting, explicit and implicit, and uses taskinformation to determine shifts in focus.
Anexplicit focus data structure contains thoseelements that are relevant to the interpretationof an utterance because they have been discussedin the preceding discourse.
In addition, thefocusing mechanisms provide for differentialaccess to certain information associated withthese elements.
In particular, the subactions andobjects involved in a task are implicitlyhighlighted whenever that task is highlighted.That is, implicit fQcus consists of those elementsthat are relevant to the interpretation of anutterance because they are closely con~$cted totask-related elements in explicit focus.
'"There are several directions in which thesemechanisms must be extended for a system to beable to handle the general problems posed byfocusing and definite descriptions in dialog.First, the only clues to how focusing changes thathave been incorporated in the system are cluesbased on shared knowledge about the structure ofentities in the domain (in particular, thestructure of the task); linguistic clues and theinteraction between different kinds of cluesremain to be examined.
Second, the highlightingof explicit and implicit focus are used ininterpreting definite descriptions, but an exactmatch is required; the question of whatconstitutes an inexact match has not yet beenfaced.
Third, although the highlightingstructures provide for focusing on differentaspects of an entity, the deduction routines donot use this information in accessing informationabout an entity in focus.
Finally, the questionof how the focusing mechanisms interact withrepresentations of belief has not been addressed.The following sections examine the problems posedby each of these extensions in more detail.17 Elements in implicit focus are separated fromthose in explicit focus for two reasons.
First,there are numerous entities implicitly focused onin a dialog, many of which are never referenced.Including the elements corresponding to suchentities in the explicit focus data structurewould clutter it, weakening its highlightingfunction.
Second, references to implicitlyfocused entities may indicate a shift of focus tothose entities, making it useful to distinguishsuch references from others.i00I.
Ranges of Fo~usinK and Clu~s to Shiftsin FocusThe term focus (as well as theme) issometimes used (e.g., Halliday, 1967) to refer toprominence in a sentence, a more local phenomenonthan focus as discussed here.
It is clear that aspeaker and hearer are focused not only globallyon some set of entities but also more locally, andthat this more local focusing affects the way inwhich a particular idea is expressed in anutterance.
This raises the question of howsentential focusing interacts with the more globalfocusing discussed in this paper.
When does theway in which an utterance is phrased not onlyhighlight certain entities, but also change theglobal focusing of the dialog participants?
Ananswer to this question requires looking moreclosely at wha~akinds of clues a speaker can useto shift focus.
"vA speaker's clues on how to focus may belinguistic or may come from knowledge about therelationships among entities being discussed.Linguistic clues may be either explicit, givendirectly by certain words, or implicit, derivingfrom sentential structure or from rhetoricalrelationships between sentences.
In the modeldescribed in Grosz (1977), both implicit focus andthe procedures for shifting focus are based onclues that derive from knowledge a speaker andhearer share about the structure of the entitiesbeing discussed; they use a representation of thetask to decide when and how to shift focus.
19 Forthe focus mechanisms to be useful for discourse ingeneral, they must be extended to handle thelinguistic clues that a speaker may use.
Inparticular, two kinds of implicit linguistic cluesmust be understood and their use for shiftingformalized.First, there are the global linguisticclues that come from patterns of relationshipsbetween sentences, such as paraphrase andelaboration (Grimes, 1975; Halliday andHasan, 1976).
For example, by elaborating on someelement of a sentence, a speaker shifts focus tothat element (really the entity expressed by thatelement).
A major question here is how torecognize when such patterns occur (cf.Hobbs 1976).
Perhaps more important, there is thequestion of whether recognizing the patternsrequires knowing how the focus of attention in the18 It is important to note that shifting andfocusing are not separable tasks.
Focusing is anongoing process that both influences and isinfluenced by the interpretation of an utterance.This dynamic aspect of focusing is clear in theinterpretation of the phrase "one screw" inutterance (5) of the initial dialog fragment.
Thefocusing established by the expert inutterance (3) highlights a set of screws fromwhich the one screw can be chosen.
The referenceto one screw shifts focus to the particularsubtask of loosening those screws.19 The structure need not be that of a task.
Forexample, in describing a house, focus can movefrom the total house to one of the rooms of thehouse.two sentences is related.
It may be that suchglobal patterns are more useful in settingexpectations about where focus may be in thefollowing utterances than in determining the focusin a particular utterance.The second kind of implicit clue comesfrom the syntactic form of an utterance.Sidner (1978) presents rules for determiningfocus, based on syntactic structure.
Aparticularly important aspect of her work involvesthe recognition that focusing is only predicted bya single utterance and that the "expected focus"must be confirmed by succeeding utterances.
Thatis, the question of whether an utterance changesglobal focus cannot be answered on the basis ofthe individual utterance.
Rather, an utterancecan only suggest a global shift in focus.
Thisexpectation may then be confirmed in a followingutterance (if the speaker continues; if the hearerspeaks next s/he may choose to accept or rejectthis shift).2.
Inexact Matches: The Problems thatRemainBefore the focusing mechanisms can beextended to handle inexact matches two majorproblems must be addressed: determining how todecide whether an inexact match is close enoughand determining how to decide between accepting aninexact match and considering a shift in focus.For the first problem, focusing makes it possibleto determine the closest match, but not to decidewhether that match is close enough.
For example,if a red ball and a green ball are in focus, thenthe red ball comes closest to matching thedescription "the red block" but not close enoughto be considered the referent of that phrase.
Forthe second problem, if no exact match can be foundin explicit focus the matching procedures mustdecide whether to accept a referent that inexactlymatches a description or to consider thepossibility that the speaker wants to focus onsome new entity.
For example, should a hearerconfronted with the phrase "the red spot" in thesituation Just described look for a red spot onone of the balls?
Answers to these questionsrequire research on some fundamental issues insemantics and on speech errors.3- Focusing an d PerspectiveFocusing involves not only highlightingcertain entities, but also highlighting certainways of viewing those entities.
For example, adoctor may be viewed as a member of the medicalprofession or as having a role in a family.
Inthe process of focusing on some entity, thespeaker also chooses a certain perspective on thatentity and, as a result, focuses on that entityfrom that perspective (Halliday, 1977;i01Fillmore, 197720).The perspective from which an entity isviewed influences how further information aboutthat entity is accessed.
The representation offocus presented in Grosz (1977) allows fordifferential access to properties of an entit~but this addresses only one part of the problem.
="Using the initial perspective from which an entityis viewed for differential access does not ruleout considering a concept differently from the wayit has already been portrayed.
Instead, it ordersthe way in which aspects of the concept are to beexamined.
One of the problems this raises isdeciding when to consider a switch in perspective,when to abandon deriving properties or searchingitems implicitly focused by an initial perspectiveand examine other aspects of the entity.Another problem that relates toperspective is how perspective influences theparticular description a speaker chooses.
Doesglobal focus give an indication to a speaker ofwhich properties to choose?
The precedingfragments of dialog contained several examplesthat illustrated the effect of differences in howa speaker and hearer were focused oncommunication.
This suggests that focusing,though often quite useful, can cause problems forpeople; similar problems may be unavoidable in anatural language processing system.4.
Focusing and BeliefsAn additional aspect of focus that hasnot yet been addressed is its interaction with arepresentation of beliefs.
The dialog fragmentsin the section on description pointed out some ofthe problems that arise when the two participantsknow different things about the entity beingdescribed.
It is important, then, for a speakerto be able to separate his own beliefs from whathe believes his hearer knows or believes.
Itseems equally clear from the dialogs, however,that focusing is not one of the things that isseparate for the two participants.
There is apervasive assumption by speaker and hearer thatthey share a common focus (this is, in fact, animportant part of how and why focusing works).The extension that seems to be needed here is tohave the focusing mechanisms interact with anencoding of knowledge that distinguishes beliefs20 Fillmore says,The point is that whenever we pick a word orphrase, we automatically drag along with itthe larger context or framework in terms ofwhich the word or phrase we have chosen hasan interpretation.
It is as if descriptionsof the meanings of elements must identifysimultaneously .figure" and "ground".To say it again, whenever we understand alinguistic expression of whatever sort, wehave simultaneously a background scene and aperspective on that scene.21 Consequently,the referencemechanisms did not use this feature.resolution(e.g., Cohen 1978) rather than, as is now thecase, with some uniform encoding of knowledge thatdoes not distinguish between speaker and hearer.E.
SummaryFocusing is the active process, engaged in bythe participants in a dialog, of concentratingattention on, or highlighting, a subset of theirshared reality.
Not only does it makecommunication more efficient, it makescommunication possible.
Speaker and hearer canconcentrate on a small portion of what they knowand ignore the rest.
The importance of focusingto communication is clearly demonstrated by thedefinite descriptions that are used in dialog.For a natural language processing system to carryon a dialog with a person it must includemechanisms that computationally capture thisfocusing process.
This paper has examined therequirements definite descriptions impose on suchmechanisms, discussed focusing mechanisms includedin a computer system for understanding task-oriented dialog, and indicated future researchproblems entailed in modeling the focusing processmore generally.REFERENCESChafe, Wallace L. The Flow of Thought and theFlow of Language.
In Proceedings of theSymposiua on Discourse and Syntax, Los Angeles,California, November, 1977.
In press.Cohen, Philip R. On Knowing What to Say: PlanningSpeech Acts.
Ph.
D. thesis, University ofToronto, Canada.
1978.Deutsch\[Grosz\], Barbara G. Typescripts of TaskOriented Dialogs.
SUR Note 146,  ArtificialIntelligence Center, Stanford ResearchInstitute, Menlo Park, California, August 20,1974.Donnellan, Keith.
Reference and DefiniteDescription.
The Philosophical Review,vol.
75, 1966.
Reprinted in: Semantics,Danny P. Steinberg and Leon A. Jakobovits, Eds.pp.
100-114.
The University Press, Cambridge.1971.Downing Pamela A.
On .Basic Levels" and theCategorization of Objects in English Discourse.Proceedings of the Third Anpua!
Meetin~ of t~eBerkeley Linguistics So~ietv, Berkeley,California, February 1977.Evans, Thomas G. A Heuristic Program to SolveGeometric-Analogy Problems.
Ph.D.  thesis,Department of Mathematics, MassachusettsInstitute of Technology, Cambridge,Massachusetts, May, 1963.Fillmore, Charles J.
The Case for Case Reopened.In: Syntax an~ Semantics, John P. Kimball, Ed.Academic Press.
New York.
In press.Freedle, Roy O.
Language Users as FallibleInformation-Processors: Implications forMeasuring and Modeling Comprehension.
In:Language Comprehension and the Acquisition o__f102Knowledge, John B. Carroll and Roy O.
Freedle,Eds., pp.
169-209.
Winston, Washington, D.C.,1972.Gregory, R.L .
Eye and Brain: The Psychology ofSeeing, McGraw Hill, New York, 1966.Grioe, H. Logic and Conversation.
In: Syntax andSemanties, P. Cole and J. Morgan, Eds.
Vol.
3,pp.
41-58.
Academic Press, New York, 1975.Grimes, Joseph E. The Thread of Discourse.
TheHague, Mouton, 1975.Grosz, Barbara J.
The Representation and Use ofFocus in Dialogue Understanding.
Ph.
D.thesis, University of California, Berkeley,California; also Technical Note No.
151, SRIInternational, Menlo Park, California, 1977.Halliday, Michael A.
Notes on Transitivity andTheme in English.
Part 2.
Journal ofLinguistics, 31, 177-274, 1967.Halliday, Michael A.
Language as Code andLanguage as Behaviour: A Systemlc-functionalinterpretation of the nature and ontogenesis ofdialogue.
In: Semiotics of  Culture andLanguage, Sydney M. Lamb and Adam Makkal, Eds.1977.
In press.Halliday, Michael A., and Hasan, Ruqaiya.Cohesion i__nn English.
London, Longman, 1976.Hobbs Jerry R. A Computational Approach toDiscourse Analysis.
Research Report 76-2,Department of Computer Sciences, City College,CUNY, December 1976.Levy, David M. Communicative Goals andStrategies: Between Discourse and Syntax.
InProceedings of the Symposit~n on Discourse andSyntax, Los Angeles, California,November, 1977.
In press.Olson, David R. Language and Thought: Aspects ofa Cognitive Theory of Semantics.
PsychologicalReview, 77, 257-273, 1970.Rubin, A.D. A Theoretical Taxonomy of theDifferences Between Oral and Written Language,In: Theoretical Issues i__Rn Re~dingComprehension, R. Sprio, B. Bruce and W.Brewer, Eds., Lawrence Erlba,~,, Hillsdale,N.J., 1978.
Also as Center for the Study ofReading Technical Report No.
35, January 1978.Rumelhart, David E. Notes on a Schema forStories.
In: Representation and Understandln~:Studies i_~nCognitlve Science, Daniel R. Bobrowand Alan Collins, Eds.
Academic Press, NewYork, 1975.Sidner, Candace L. A Computational Model of Co-reference Comprehension in English.Ph.D.
thesis, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, Cambridge, Massachusetts,forthcoming.van Dijk, Teun A.
Some Aspects of Text GrsmmarS:Study i__nnTheoretlcal L~n~uistios and Poetics.Mouton, The Hague, 1972Walker, Donald E.
(Ed.).
Understandln~ SpokenLanguage.
Elsevier North-Holland, Inc., NewYork, 1978.Webber, B.L.
A Formal Approach to DiscourseAnaphora.
BBN Report No.
3761, Belt Beranekand Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts, May1978.Winston, Patrick H. Learning StructuralDescriptions From Examples.
MAC TR-76.M.I.T.
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory,1970.t03
