Discourse Representation Theory and the Semantics of NaturalLanguages:Contribution to a Panel on "Discourse Theory and Speech Acts"TINLAP3F.
GuenthnerUniversit~it Ti ibingen/FNS0.
Some QuestionsThe present panel was asked to elaborate on the following series of  questions:\[1\] Is there yet any serious discourse theory with testable computational and empirical consequences?\[2\] What phenomena ought a processing theory of discourse understanding/generation to address itself that are not already beingattended to currently?\[3\] What aspects of discourse are language problems and which are general AI/KR problems?\[4\] What makes atheory of discourse a processing theory?\[5\] Does spoken language affect one's theory of discourse?\[6\] Is there any real hope that we will be able to recognize the plans/goals etc.
of a speaker?\[7\] How much of conversation is carried on through the linguistic window anyway?\[8\] Do current theories of text and dialogue mesh, and should they?But one additional question before we try to answer some of the above questions:\[9\] How would the answers to questions 1 - 8 differ if instead of"discourse" or "text" and?
"dialogue" (or whatever) had we been asked these questions in terms o f  just the concepts of"sentence" or "language" ?Let me try and answer this question before coming to (some of) the others.For  anyone who is not conv inced that the def init ion of  l inguistic mean ing  must  be based onsomething else than the "sentence", the answer to Quest ion 9 must  necessari ly and lapidarily besomething like "in nothing" - and with good reason.
Of  course this answer is not right: not becausethere is a panel that is supposed to give more interesting answers, but because the facts of  languageelicit another answer.The basic "unit" of  l inguistic meaning is the discourse and the basic concept of  meaning is one thatinvolves quite dif ferent semantic ingredients than those that previous attempts to formulate asemantics for natural anguage have made us familiar with.
We take it that the concept of  linguisticmeaning should characterize a relation between "information ~tate~" (the term - as well  as manyideas in this note - originates from two papers by Richard Smaby \[1978\] and \[1981\]).
In otherwords we view the (linguistic) meaning of  a discourse - and obviously also that of  a single sentence- as something like a funct ion which transforms information states into (usually but not always)105new information states.
In fact, every linguistic onstruct below the discourse level, be it a phraseor even a basic expression, should ultimately be viewed in this manner.
A systematiccharacterization of this relation will reveal that for just about every linguistic onstruct we are led toassume amuch more intricate account of the "meaning" they convey than the typical "satisfaction"and "truth clauses" that we once assumed in the context of theories of meaning whose main goalwas the systematic charactization f the models which verified isolated sentences.
Traditionalformal (or model theoretic) semantics i by no means falsified by this view of discourse semantics;on the contrary: what is made clear by the new account is that so-called truth relations (as applied tosentences or stretches of discourse) are no longer the primary relations but rather derived from amore fundamental kind of semantic relation.The answers to the above questions will as a result be couched in terms of how information statescan be changed by the incorporation fnew bits of information.1.
Basic Features of a Theory of Discourse Meaning (or a partial answer to Q 1)1J What is "Linguistic Meaning"?
:Even if it is more than a truism to assert hat one of the basic functions of linguistic ommunicationis to convey "information" we should not be misled into assuming too strict a link between the two.Certainly the traditional notion of "information equivalence" in terms what models (in the logicalsense) are characterized byan utterance or sets of utterances is a most useful one.
But this notion istoo weak as a characterization f linguistic meaning; there are in general many sentences that -given a model - turn out to be equivalent, even though their linguistic properties are quite different.We claim that (logically) equivalent sentences can play very different roles in the setting ofdiscourse.
Observe to begin with that for many sentences the traditional pproach in terms of truthconditions does not make much sense.
Sentences with pronouns or various "elliptical"constructions for example cannot even be evaluated (i.e.
semantically characterized) ontheir own.Nevertheless they have a linguistic meaning; but their meaning must be reconstructed as somethingelse than simple truth conditions.
Their meaning is inherently their effect - i.e.
the change they caninduce - on an antecedently given information state.1.2 Expressions, Representations, ModelsTo be more precise we should say that questions of meaning should be treated at three differentlevels and in a particular order:- the linguistic meaning of an expression (be it an atomic expression, a phrase, asentence or a bit of106discourse) is what determines its contribution to information states, or better, the conditions of itscontribution to an information state.- the l'?pzesentational meaning of an expression is the particular "change" the expression effects on agiven information state.- the model-theoretic meaning of an expression are the satisfiability conditions induced by thechange given a particular class of models for the information states.There is a lot to be said about how these "levels" of meaning interact; for a discussion of this issuecf.
Guenthner \[1985a\].
What should be pointed out here - albeit briefly - is that the general theoryof meaning should characterize the representational and model-theoretic properties of expressions interms of the linguistic meaning and not the other way around.
In other words, it is the(characterization f the) linguistic meaning which gives rise to its model-theoretic (or truthconditional) properties and not vice-versa (as most recent work in formal semantics might have ledus to believe).13 Two Types of Semantic RelationsThe above distinction between different levels of "meaning" is closely related to a distinction - firstdrawn in a systematic way by Hans Kamp in the framework of Discourse Represention Theory -between two kinds of semantic relations.
Prior to Kamp's work most if not all semantic propertiesand relations were def'med in terms of truth-conditional terms, ultimately therefore in terms of themost basic model-theoretic relation: logical consequence.
We shall call semantic relations definablein terms of consequence "T(ruth)-relations" and we shall oppose them to a perhaps more interestingclass of semantic relations that we shall call "D(iscourse)-relations".
T-relations (most notablyconsequence, truth and consistency) are relations that characterize the relation of an informationstate and a model, but T-relations are not the only kind of relations between informations andmodels.
D-relations on the other hand characterize r lations between information states.
Both typesof relations are in general applied to sentences and stretches of discourse, but they can begeneralized to expressions below as well as above the sentence.
Typical D-relations arepresupposition, ambiguity and coherence.
But there are many more.
The topic of D-relations ispursued in more detail in Guenthner \[1985b\].1.4 Aspects of the Theory of CommunicationAll of the above makes a lot more sense once one considers the role of information states in thesetting of a theory of communication.
Sentences but more generally stretches of spoken and written107discourse are used to "convey" information.
In other words they are used to transform informationstates.
But how and with what "intention"?
A simple but plausible answer (reminiscent of Kamp\[1985\]) goes as follows: in communicating a speaker has in general to circumscribe asub-information state from his own overall representational set-up in such a way that there is a"choice of words" which allows the linguistic encoding of that sub-information state; the decodingof the resulting discourse by the hearer should then result in the installation of an "equivalent"sub-information state in the overall representational set-up of the hearer.
The rules which governboth the encoding and the decoding of discourses are called discourse structure construction rules inKarnp \[1981\].
It is this algorithm which defines the concept of "linguistic meaning" mentionedabove.
We claim that he regularities of linguistic meaning are exactly captured by this algorithm.1.5 Understanding "Understanding"This is a far cry from a theory of understanding, but there is at least something to be said whichdistinguishes "understanding" from other concepts introduced so far.
On our view the result of thesuccessful decoding of a discourse results in an "interpretation" of the discourse with respect to thegiven antecedent information state.
And "understanding" begins where interpretation e ds: how oneunderstands epends to a high degree what other available information the result of interpreting asentence or discourse can interact with.
Since no two hearers are exactly in the same informationstate it can hardly come as a surprise that he ramifications of the incorporated information will notplay exactly the same role in their mental states.
This is true even for rather banal utterances (like ".itis four o'clock") and obviously much.
more for utterances that involve more intricate conceptualstructures be these of the scientific, literary, sociological or whatever sort.
Moreover, it seems clearthat there can be effects of "understanding" without interpretation.
For the inability to provide aninterpretation also has side-effects; if the transfer of information fails (e.g.
because the hearersimply doesn't understand the language that is used) or because central presuppositions axe not inplace, the hearer can very well draw conclusions which have little or nothing to do with thelinguistic meaning of the discourse.
And it would be a great mistake to identify (or even associate)those conclusions with the linguistic meaning of the utterances mployed.
(For a more extensivediscussion of these matters, of.
Chapter 6 in Guenthner & Sabatier (to appear).)2.
A Computational Account of DRT22.
The Fragment in Kamp \[1981\]: Some RemarksAn important step towards formulating a theory of discourse analysis was taken in Kamp \[1981\]108and later work by Kamp and others within the framework of Discourse Reprepresention Theory(DRT).
As presented in that paper, the fragment has a straightforward computational interpretation:let d be a discourse consisting of the sentences sl,...,sn, then the Discourse RepresentationStructure (DRS) associated with d (via the so-called DRS construction algorithm A, the core part ofDRT) is A(d), i.e.
A(s) o A(sl) .... o A(sn), where the "result" of applying A to a sentence sdepends on the DRS derived from the previous entences.An extension of the original fragment of DRT was first implemented in Prolog in Kolb \[1985\]; thisimplementation also had the merit of providing a deductive account (restricted to a generalizedsyllogistic language) for DRSs.2.2 Implementing DRT in PrologProlog lends itsself in a natural way as an implementation la guage for DRT.
(A faithful and at thesame time optimal implementation f the fragment in Kamp \[1981\] takes up about 11/2 pages ofProlog code.)
Several alternatives tothe implementation f DRT (in Prolog) have been investigated(cf.
Guenthner & Sabatier \[to appear\] Chapter 6); the most recent implementation takes as ittop-level predicate the relation mentioned above between an antecedent context, aresulting contextand a discourse.
A context is taken to consist of a DRS together with an (ordered) list of possibleantecedents for pronouns.
(Similar predicates apply to all syntactic ategories in the fragment.)
Theimplementation is reversible and thus generates DRSs for bits of discourse as well as bits ofdiscourse from DRSs.
Among the new features of this implementation, we should cite amongothers the treatment of: disjoint reference, possessive and reflexive pronouns, forward anaphora(e.g.
the Migs & Pilots variety) as well as a simple but effective treatment of quantifier scopeambiguities.
For instance, the scope effects of sentences likes every man loves a woman aredealt with by treating the "weakest" reading first; if later sentences force a stronger eading,backtracking will induce a DRS where the indefinite noun phrase is given a "topmost"interpretation, i.e.
by introducing the discourse reference of that noun phrase in the principal DRS(and nowhere lse).
There is some linguistic evidence that for this kind of quantifier interactionthere are no other plausible possibilities.
In future versions of this implementation weshall exploitthe fact that he programm isreversible for certain applications requiring eneration.Finally, we can extract information from DRSs by translating them into predicate logic; a theoremprover based on Smullyan's tableaux system has successfully been used to derive answers fromDRSs in a deductive manner.
In ,addition to semantic evaluation (with respect o a model ordatabase) we thus have another way of using DRSs for interactive information processing.109ReferencesBarwise, J.
& J. Perry Situations and Attitudes, MIT Press, 1983.Guenthner, F. \[1985a\] "Linguistic Meaning in Discourse Representation Theory", FNS-Bericht-85-4, to appear in Synthese.Guenthner, F. \[ 1985b\] "Zwei Typen yon semantischen Relationen", FNS-Bericht-85-5, to appearin O. Herzog,Wissensbasierte Systeme und Natfirlich Sprache, Springer.Guenthner, F. & P. Sabatier An Introduction to Natural Language Processing inProlog, to appear.Kamp, H. \[1981\] "A Theory of Truth and Semantic Representation", i  J. Groenendijk et al (eds.
)Formal Methods in the Study of Languages~ Foris, 1984,Kamp, H. \[1983\] "SID without Time and Questions", CSLI-Report, to appear.Kamp, H. \[1985\] "Context, Thought and Communication", Aristotelian Society, New Series,1984/1985.Kolb, H.P.
\[1985\] Aspekte der Implementation der Diskursrepr~entationstheorie,FNS-Skript-85-1, Universit~t Tiibingen.Lewis, D. \[1979\] "Score-Keeping in a Language Game", Journal of Philosophical Logic,1979Smaby, R. \[1978\] "Ambiguous Co-reference with Quantifiers" in: F. Guenthner & S.J.
Schmidt(eds.)
Formal Semantics and Pragmatics for Natural Languages, Reidel, 1978.Smaby, R. \[1981\] "Pronouns and Ambiguity: A Sample Case", in U. M6nnich (ed.)
Aspects ofPhilosophical Logic, Reidel, 1981.ii0
