On Formal  Versus Commonsense  SemanticsDavid  IsraelAI  Center and CSL ISR I  InternationalThere is semantics and, on the other hand, there is seraan~ics.
And then there is thetheory of meaning or content.
I shall speak of pure mathematical semantics and real se-mantics.
I have very little idea what "formal" means in "formal semantics"--unless itsimply means semantics done rigorously and systematically.
1 I have even less idea what ismeant by "commonsense mantics".
I shall not speak much of the theory of meaning.
Thedistinction between these two modes of semantics, the mathematical nd the real, is notmeant to be a hard and fast distinction--nor, most assuredly, is it intended to be rigorousor systematic.
As I see it, the distinction has primarily to do with purposes or goals, deriva-tively, with constraints on the tools or conceptual resources considered available to realizethose goals.
In particular, real semantics i  simply pure mathematical semantics with cer-tain goals in mind and thus operating under certain additional constraints.
Another wayto put the point: some work in pure mathematical semantics is in fact a contribution toreal semantics; however, it does not have to be such to make a genuine contribution topure mathematical semantics.
2 Hence, since real semantics can be executed with the samedegree of rigor and systematicity as must all of pure mathematical semantics, it should be.Have I made myself clear?
Not entirely, perhaps.
Let's try a more systematic approach.Pure mathematical semantics is either a part of or an application of mathematical logic.Real semantics, even though an application of mathematical logic, is a part of the theory ofmeaning or content.
Contributions to real semantics had better cast some light on naturallyoccurring phenomena within the purview of a theory of meaning--on such properties andrelations as truth analyticity, necessity, implication.Traditionally (indeed, until Montague, almost undeviatingly) the techniques of puremathematical semantics were deployed for formal or artificial anguages.
But this by itselfis of no importance.
These languages were invented, and are of interest only because,or insofar as, they are plausible and illuminating models, in the intuitive sense, of realphenomena in thought and in informal anguage.
Consequently, the nature of the languagesstudied need not make an essential difference.
3 What does make a difference is the purpose1This is mildly disingenuous; talk of "formal semantics" is usually grounded in one or another idea of"logical (or, more generally syntactic) form".
But one should beware the overly eager application of suchnotions to the semantics of natural anguages.20f course, problems pursued for purely technical, mathematical reasons often turn out to be related toimportant questions and issues in real semantics.3Indeed, the two examples I shall consider concern the semantics of formal languages.134or end of the study and  the fact that the end imposes constraints on the choice of means.In doing work  in semantics, the logician has a range of tools available and certaincriteria for choosing among them.
In pure mathemat ica l  semantics, the only criteria are,in a suitably broad sense, technical.
There  are no nontechnical constraints; anyth inggoes.
That  is, even if the deve lopment  of a class of logics was  inspired by an attemptto mode l  various pretheoretic notions, work  on the pure mathemat ica l  semantics of thelanguages can still diverge quite far f rom that original motivation.
The  objective is toprovide a systematic way  of assigning mathemat icaUydescr ibab le  entities to the nonlogicalexpressions and  mathematical ly  characterizable operations to \[or correlating them with\]the logical constants so that the best proofs of the strongest and  most  general results maybe achieved.
Not  so for work  in real semantics.
There  the choice of tools and conceptualresources should be grounded somehow in the nature of the phenomena to be analyzed or,to pilt it differently, prob lems in real semantics generate not-purely-technical criteria forchoosing among technical means.This, I realize, is all rather vague and  airy-so let's get down to cases.
The  first illustra-tion is f rom work  on higher order logics, in particular Henkin's proof of completeness in thetheory of finite types \[I\].
The  intended interpretation of the relevant language is that theindividual variables-those of type 0-range over some domain  of elements To, and that foreach n, Tn+1 is the power  set of Tn, that is, the set of all subsets of Tn.
Monadic.predicatevariables of type n+l  range over all elements of the power  set of Tn, m-place predicatevariables of that type range over the entire power  set of the rn th Cartesian product of T~.The  theory of finite types can therefore be regarded as a \[perhaps noncumulative\] versionof a part of impure  set theory, that is, it formulates a conception of an "initial segment" -upto rank w-o f  the set-theoretic universe over some domain  of individuals.
Now it is a fairlyimmediate  corollary of GSdel's proof that second-order logic-let alne w-order logic, whichis what  we are now concerned with-is incomplete relative to this intended interpretation.Yet Henk in  proved completeness for a system of w-order logic.
How?By  ingenious hook  and  ingenious crook, is how.
He  introduced a wider class of models(interpretations) according to which  the sole requirement was  that each Tn be nonempty ;otherwise, the interpretation of the Tn's was arbitrary.
In particular, it is not requiredthat each Tn be the power  set of the immediately preceding type.
This approach madeit possible for Henk in  to reduce w-order logic to a many-sorted first-order logic, therebyallowing h im to obtain soundness, completeness, compactness, and  LSwel~heim-Skolemresults.
Henkin's work  was  an exercise in pure mathemat ica l  semantics.
The  task beforeh im was  to provide a class of models  for an axiomatic system in such a way  as to providesoundness, completeness, and  other results-and to do so in whatever  way  worked, withoutany thought being given to the interpretation on which the real significance of the systemwas based .
4Now let 's  move  on to the  t reatment  of  languages  for p ropos i t iona l  moda l  logics.
540f course, quite independent of tIenkin's motivations, it could have worked out that the class of modelshe focused on was indeed of real semantical interest.
It just didn't work out that way.SThere is an interesting twist as regards motivation in this case.
C. I. Lewis, the founding father ofmodern modal ogic, was interested in different conceptions of implication (or the conditional), not  in differingconceptions of contingency and necessity.
Of course, on the conventional view, implication simply is validity135Modal logics have been studied as axiomatizations of different conceptions of necessityor possibil ity-or to put it somewhat differently, as axiomatizations of different conceptionsof modal facts.
The current standard semantical account is in terms of Kripke structures.For our purposes, let us think of these as ordered pairs < K, R >, with K a nonempty setand R a binary relation on K. (Kripke structures are now usually thought of as triples,the third element of which is a distinguished element of K. I'll return to this briefly later.
)Roughly speaking, what happens is that the elements of K are used to index classicalpropositional models or interpretat ions-that  is, assignments of T or F to the sentenceletters-and the relation It, which is correlated with the modal operator, is a relationamong such indices.
(There may be more than one modal  operator in which case therewill be more than one binary relation.)
Now if one thinks of the models as representingways the world might be or alternative possibilities (or some such), it is not really sucha bizarre exercise to follow Kripke's heuristic; the set K of indices of models is a set ofpossible worlds and I t  is a relation of accessibility or relative possibility among worlds.This heuristic results in a version of an old idea due to Leibniz: Necessity is truth in allpossible worlds.The work on model-theoretic semantics for modal  languages and logics using Kripkestructures is a bit of pure mathematical  semantics that is arguably also a real contr ibutionto real semantics.
Moreover, the techniques involved have shown themselves to be widelyapplicable.
Thus, besides work on temporal  logics, in which the set K is understood to bea set of times or time slices and I t  the relation, say, of temporal  precedence, we have workon provability interpretations in which, for example, K is the set of consistent recursivelyaxiomatized extensions of Peano arithmetic and TII:tT2 if and only if the consistency of T2 isprovable within T1.
There is also, of course, a good deal of purely technical, mathemat ica lwork on the Kripke-style semantics for modal languages.
As Kripke asks, "What  is wrongwith the purely technical pursuit of mathematical ly natural  questions even if the originalmotivation is philosophical?
"Still, the philosophical questions, questions from metaphysics and the theory of mean-ing, keep insinuating themselves, as they must.
If the work on Kripke structures is to betaken seriously as a piece of real semantics, something must be said about these entitiescalled possible worlds and about the relation between them and the classical models theyindex.
6 It will not do simply to say, as we can when doing pure mathemat ica l  semantics,that K is just some nonempty set and I t  is just some binary relation on K, that meets suchand such conditions.
You've got to put up about possible worlds or shut up.
I would arguethat when you do put up, the best net result is to postulate a family of structures likeor necessity of the conditional.6For instance, the distinction between models and indices is crucial, but that very distinction leaves roomfor the following possibility; there can be distinct possible worlds which are exactly alike as ways the worldmight be.
That is, one and the same model can be paired with more than one index.
Is this just an artifactor is it supposed actually to represent something?
If so, what?
There are things to he said here, things aboutrepresenting contingent relations to propositions.
Never mind what they are though; the point is that whentaking work in the model-theoretic tradition seriously, one has to keep in mind that what is being done is,precisely, modeling.
One must think seriously about what aspects of the proposed model are merely artifactsand what not.136those to be found in the situation-theoretic universe.
But  that's an argument  for anotheroccasion.I want to make one more point about proposit ional modal  logics.
Oddly enough,structures that yielded models for propositional modal  logics had been made availableas a result of research in Boolean algebra by Jdnsson and Tarski \[2\].
This work hadnothing to do with the issues of necessity and possibility; the research was not in theleast concerned with modal facts, nor, in fact, with modal  languages.
As a result of thiswork (and thanks to the perspicacity of hindsight) structures for modal  languages can beseen to be/proper / re lat ion algebras.
Proper relation algebras are a special case of Booleanalgebras with operators; work on them is directly related to results in universal algebra, themetamathemat ics  of algebra, and category theory.
For my purposes, though, the crucialaspect of this work is precisely its austere abstractness and general i ty.
This is work inmathemat ica l  semantics at its purest.
In this framework, even the set K rather disappearsinto the background-to be replaced by binary relations on K,  those being the elements ofthe algebra.
7 Once again, the Kripke heuristic is available; it's just farther removed fromthe mathemat ica l  ction, sThe point to stress is a simple, but an important,  one: the "reading" of the set K as aset of possible worlds, and of R as a relation of accessibility among possible worlds playsno part in the technical development.
That heuristic enters precisely when claims of areal semantical nature are to be made for, or on the basis of, the technical results in puremathemat ica l  semantics.
And those claims cannot be extricated from more general issuesin the theory of meaning.
9Earl ier I suggested that I had just about no  idea what is meant by commonsensesemantics.
Alas, this too was disingenuous of me.
Sad to say, my guess is that mostadherents of commonsense semantics are convinced that  rigorous, systematic accounts ofthe semantics of natural  anguages are unattainable.
In this regard, Schank and Chomskyare bedfellows, however strange.
I know of no good arguments for the Schank-Chomskyview.
l?
Rather  than canvass the various bad arguments that have been trotted out, let meconclude by citing four crucial sources of confusion that  may have led many astray.
Theyall have to do with the scope and limits of semantics.The first is to think that a semantic account of a natural  anguage has to say everythingthere is to say about the meanings or interpretations of expressions of the language, withmeaning' and interpretation understood very broadly and informally.
A theory of the7Very nice work exists on relating Kripke-structures formodal ogics to relational algbras-or, more specif-ically, to modal algebras.SAs Professor Scott reminded us all at TINLAP, the prehistory of the model-theoretic semantics of modallogic is quite rich and complex.
It starts \[more or less/ with Tarski's work on topological interpretationsof intuitionist logic, continued by Tarski and McKinsey in a more general algebraic setting in which theycould draw illuminating connections to one of Lewis's systems ($4).
But a more complete telling of this taledeserves both a more proper occasion and a better story-teller.9All these questions arise much more sharply in the case of quantified modal ogics.
Many of these havebeen canvassed in an important series of papers by Kit Fine, \[3\].
In any event, work in quantified modallogic simply has not developed in the robust way as has work in propositional modal ogic.1?That's not to say, though, that the naysayers might not, in the end, be right.
There are no guaranteesof success in this business.
"137\semantics of a natural anguage, e.g., English , is not (nor is it intended to be) the wholestory of that language, minus its syntax \[phonology, morphology, etc.\] A semantic accountmay be the whole story about a formal language, minus the account of its syntax.
Butthat is because formal languages are studied, not used.
11 A semantic account of \[thedeclarative fragment of\] English should be one that, in a systematic and rigorous manner,relates various facts about \[or aspects of\] the circumstances in which sentences of Englishare used to various facts about \[or aspects of\] the truth conditions of those uses-that is,to various facts about the states of the world those utterances are intended to describe.This is a central aspect of meaning or interpretation-where, again, these are pretheoreticalnotions-but it does not exhaust he subject.The phenomenon to be studied is the use of language or, if you like, the phenomena tobe studied are kinds of uses of English sentences.
Each such use is a complex event withmany aspects.
Those aspects enter into many different kinds of regularities or systematicconnections.
There are syntactic facts, morphological facts, phonological facts, facts aboutthe surrounding discourse, facts about the nonlinguistic ircumstances of the utterance,facts about the connections between states of mind of the participants, and facts relatingsuch states to various objects, properties, and relations in the environment.
These factsare related to one another in a wide variety of ways, some of which are the province ofsemantics and some not.
For instance, any theory of language use had better make roomfor a distinction between the semantically determined information content of an utteranceand the total information imparted by that  utterance.
The former is not the latter; thelatter includes information imparted by the utterance in virtue of the interplay of \[broadlyspeaking\] pragmatic factors.
In short, acknowledging the possibility of real mathematicalsemantics for natural anguages does not imply acceptance of semantic imperialisrn.Second, semantics, even construed as part of a theory of language use, is not directly atheory of processing.
Any real semantics for natural anguage should comport with goodtheories about the cognitive capacities and activities of users of such languages.
But notheory of semantics can constitute or be directly a part of such a psychological theory.That a semantic theory does not attempt o be a processing theory, or more generally, apart of a psychological theory, is thus no cause for complaint.The third point is largely about the scope and limits of lexical semantics.
The pointis that there are limits.
Lexical semantics does not yield an encyclopedia.
Any semanticaccount worth its salt will yield a set of \[analogues of\] analytic truths, sentences such thatthe truth of utterances of them is guaranteed by the meanings of the words occurring in thesentence (plus, of course, their modes of combination), together with what might be called"the demonstrative conventions of the language" .12 Any such semantic account, then,will have to distinguish between analytic truths and world-knowledge.
Consequently, nosuch semantic account will say everything there is to say about the objects which are thedenotations of lexical items.
A brief point about the connection between the current andthe previous points is well worth making.
A good theory of natural anguage processing will11Still, we should remember what was said earlier about he purposes for which these languages are devised.12If we have picked out a small set of lexical items as logical constanfs, then those analytic truths will belogical truths.
Of course, we can make that set as large and as heterogeneous as we want..138have to explain how relevant world-knowledge is accessed, and used in processing.
GOODLUCK to such theorists/In any event, their job is not the semanticist's job.Fourth, and last: any real semantics for natural language should be a part of or beaccommodable within a general theory of meaning--indeed a general theory of mind andmeaning.
Nevertheless no theory of the semantics of natural anguage can itself constitutesuch a general theory.
Return with me now to the example of the mathematical, inparticular, model-theoretic semantics of modal anguages.
As remarked earlier, the classicalLewis systems of modal logic might be said to express different conceptions of modality, butthey don't express them in the sense that they constitute theories of modal facts.
Nor doKripke-style, model-theoretic treatments of those logics constitute theories of modality.
Thelatter constitute ways of thinking about modal facts expressible in the former--that is, theyprovide models, in the intuitive sense, of the phenomena of modality.
Kripke, for example,has presented bits and pieces of a theory of modal facts in Naming and Necessity, a piecewhich contains no mathematical semantics.
David Lewis presents another conception ofmodal facts in his recent A P lura l i ty  of Worlds; that book too is devoid of the machineryof model-theoretic semantics.
Those different heories may lead to the adoption of differentmathematical treatments of modal languages.
They will do this precisely by motivatingchoices among alternative pure mathematical semantic treatments-that is, by providingcriteria of choice of a real- semantics for modal constructions.
13References\[1\]\[2\]\[3\]L. Henkin, "Completeness In The Theory Of Types," Journa l  of Symbolic Logic,Vol.
15, No.
1, pp.
81-91 (March 1950).B.
Jdnsonn and A. Tarski, "Boolean Algebras With Operators, Part I," Amer icanJourna l  of Mathemat ics ,  Vol.
73, pp.
891-939 (1951) and "Boolean Algebras WithOperators, Part II," Amer ican  Journa l  of Mathemat ics ,  Vol.
74, pp.
127-162(1952).K.
Fine, "Model Theory for Modal Logic: Parts I, II, and III," Journa l  of Philo-sophical Logic, Vol.
7, pp.
125-156 (1978), Vol 7, pp.
277-306 (1978), and Vol.
10,pp.
293-307 (1981).13The research reported in this paper has been made possible by a gift from the System DevelopmentFoundation.139
