Reference and Reference FailuresBradley A. GoodmanBBN Laboratories Inc.10 Moulton StreetCambridge, Ma.
02238IntroductionReference in the real world differs greatly from the reference processes modelled in current natural ~language systems.
A speaker in the real world is a rational agent who must make a decision about hisdescription in a limited time, with limited resources, knowledge, and abilities.
In particular, the speaker'sperceptual and communicative skills are imperfect or his model of the listener is erroneous or incomplete.Additionally, a speaker can also be sloppy in his description.
Since the speaker's goal in the referenceprocess is to construct a description that "works" for the listener, the listener, from his viewpoint, musttake these imperfections into account when trying to interpret the speaker's utterances.
Yet, listeners,too, have imperfect perceptual or communicative skills and can be sloppy.
Hence, they must be preparedto deal with their own imperfections when performing reference identification.
In real reference, listener'soften recover from initial misunderstandings with or without help from the speaker.
Natural languageunderstanding systems must do this, too.
Therefore, in performing the reference process, a systemshould assume and expect problems.The focus of my work in \[3, 4, 5\] was to study how one could build robust natural language processingsystems that can detect and recover from miscommunication.
I investigated how people communicateand how they recover from problems in communication.
That investigation centered on  referenceproblems, problems a listener has determining whom or what a speaker is talking about.
A collection ofprotocols of a speaker explaining to a listener how to assemble a toy water pump were studied and thecommon errors in speakers' descriptions were categorized.
The study led to the development oftechniques for avoiding failures of reference that were employed in the reference identification componentof a natural language understanding program.The traditional approaches to reference identification in natural language systems were found to beless flexible than people's real behavior.
In particular, listeners often find the correct referent even whenthe speaker's description does not describe any object in the world.
To model a listener's behavior, anew component was added to the traditional reference identification mechanism to resolve difficulties in aspeaker's description.
This new component uses knowledge about linguistic and physical context in anegotiation process that determines the most likely places for error in the speaker's utterance.
The actualrepair of the speaker's description is achieved by using the knowledge sources to guide relaxationtechniques that delete or replace portions of the description.
The algorithm developed more closelyapproximates people's behavior than reference algorithms designed in the past.
The next sectiondescribes in more detail my work on reference.ReferenceCommunication involves a series of utterances from a speaker to a hearer.
The hearer uses theseutterances to access his own knowledge and the world around him.
Some of these utterances are nounphrases that refer to objects, places, ideas and people that exist in the real world or in some imaginaryworld.
They cannot be considered in isolation.
For example, consider the utterance "Give me that thing.
"It can be uttered in many different situations and can result in different referents of "that thing.
"Understanding such referring expressions requires the hearer to take into account the speaker's intention,the speaker's overall goal, the beliefs of the speaker and hearer, the linguistic context, the physicalcontext, and the syntax and semantics of the current utterance.
The hearer could misinterpret hespeaker's information in any one of these parts of communication.
Such misunderstandings constitutemiscommunication.
In my research I focused primarily on effects of the linguistic context and the physicalcontext.To explore such reference problems, the following method was devised and followed.
First, protocols171of subjects communicating about a task were analyzed.
Knowledge that people used to recover fromreference miscommunications - knowledge about the world and about language - was then isolated.Algorithms were designed to apply a person's knowledge about linguistic and physical context todetermine the most likely places for error in the speaker's utterance.
Then, computer programs werewritten: (1) to represent a spatially complex physical world, (2) to manipulate the structure of thatrepresentation to reflect the changes caused by the listener's interpretation of the speaker's utterancesand by physical actions to the world, (3) to perform referent identification on noun phrases, and, whenreferent identification failed, (4) to search the physical world for reasonable candidates for the referent.These programs form one component of a natural language system.One goal in this summary of my research is to illustrate how my views on reference identificationdeparted from views held by other researchers in artificial intelligence.
Another goal is to show where myresearch fits in the scheme of natural language understanding by computers.
My last goal is tosummarize the approach of my research.A new reference paradigm from a computational viewpointReference identification is a search process where a listener looks for something in the world thatsatisfies a speaker's uttered description.
A computational scheme for performing such referenceidentifications has evolved from work by other artificial intelligence researchers (e.g., see \[6\]).
Thattraditional approach succeeds if a referent is found, or fails if no referent is found (see Figure l(a)).However, a reference identification component must be more versatile than those previously constructed.The excerpts provided in \[3\] show that the traditional approach is inadequate because people's realbehavior is much more elaborate.
In particular, listeners often find the correct referent even when thespeaker's description does not describe any object in the world.
For example, a speaker could describe aturquoise block as the "blue block."
Most listeners would go ahead and assume that the turquoise blockwas the one the speaker meant ,~ince turquoise and blue are similar colors.A key feature to reference identification is "negotiation."
Negotiation in reference identification comes intwo forms.
First, it can occur between the listener and the speaker.
The listener can step back, expandgreatly on the speaker's description of a plausible referent, and ask for confirmation that he has indeedfound the correct referent.
For example, a listener could initiate negotiation with "rm confused.
Are youtalking about the thing that is kind of flared at the top?
Couple inches long.
It's kind of blue."
Second,negotiation can be with oneself.
This self-negotiation is the one that I was most concerned with in thisresearch.
The listener considers aspects of the speaker's description, the context of the communication,the listeners own abilities, and other relevant sources of knowledge.
He then applies that deliberation todetermine whether one referent candidate is better than another or, if no candidate is found, what are themost likely places for error or confusion.
Such negotiation can result in the listener testing whether or nota particular referent works.
For example, linguistic descriptions can influence a listener's perception ofthe world.
The listener must ask himself whether he can perceive one of the objects in the world the waythe speaker described it.
In some cases, the listener's perception may overrule parts of the descriptionbecause the listener can't perceive it the way the speaker described it.To repair the traditional approach I developed an algorithm that captures for certain cases the listener'sability to negotiate with himself for a referent.
It can search for a referent and, if it doesn't find one, it cantry to find possible referent candidates that might work, and then loosen the speakers description usingknowledge about the speaker, the conversation, and the listener himself.
Thus, the reference processbecomes multi-step and resumable.
This computational model, which I call "FWIM" for "Find What IMean", is more faithful to the data than the traditional model (see Figure l(b)).One means of making sense of a failed description is to delete or replace the portions that cause it notto match objects in the hearers world.
In my program I am using "relaxation" techniques to capture thisbehavior.
My reference identification module treats descriptions as approximate.
It relaxes a descriptionin order to find a referent when the literal content of the description fails to provide the neededinformation.
Relaxation, however, is not performed blindly on the description.
I try to model a person'sbehavior by drawing on sources of knowledge used by people.
I have developed a computational modelthat can relax aspects of a description using many of these sources of knowledge.
Relaxation thenbecomes a form of communication repair (in the style of the work on repair theory found in \[1\]).
A goal in172CurrentReferenceHechanismiICurrentReference SuccessMechanism~, ~ FaUt.ureFailure I Relaxation !Component Re-t~-yFai lure(a) T rad .~t ' iona  "1- (b) FWI"MFigure 1: Approaches to reference identificationmy model is to use the knowledge sources to reduce the number of referent candidates that must beconsidered while making sure that a particular elaxation makes sense.
A brief description of it follows.The component works by first selecting with a partial matcher a set of reasonable referent candidatesfor the speaker's description (see also \[7\]).
The candidates are selected by searching the knowledgebase, scoring partial matches of each candidate to the speaker's description, and selecting those withhigher scores.
The component then generates, using information from the knowledge sources, arelaxation ordering graph that describes the order to relax features in the speaker's description.
Finally, itcombines the candidates with the ordering to yield the most likely referent.
An ordered relaxation of partsof the speaker's description can be provided by consulting knowledge known about linguistics (the actualform of the speaker's utterance), perception (physical aspects of the world and the listener's ability todistinguish different feature values in that world), specificity (hierarchical knowledge to judge how vagueor specific a particular feature value is), and others.
In other words, the algorithm attempts to show how alistener might judge the importance of the features specified in a speaker's description using knowledgeabout linguistic and physical context.
Figure 2 illustrates this process.
The speaker's description isrepresented at the top of the figure.
The set of specified features and their assigned feature value (e.g.,the pair Color: Maroon) are also shown there.
A set of objects in the real world are selected by the partialmatcher as potential candidates for the referent.
These candidates are shown near the top of the figure(C 1, C 2 ..... Cn).
Inside each box is a set of features and feature values that describe that object.
A set ofpartial orderings are generated that suggest which features in the speaker's description should be relaxedfirst - one ordering for each knowledge source (shown as "Linguistic," "Perceptual," and "Hierarchical" inthe figure).
For example, linguistic knowledge recommends relaxing Color or Shape before Function, andrelaxing Function before Size.
A control structure was designed that takes the speaker's description, putsall the (partial) orders together, and then attempts to satisfy them as best it can.
This is illustrated at thebottom of the diagram by the reordered referent candidates.SummaryMy goal in this work is to build robust natural language understanding systems, allowing them to detectand avoid miscommunication.
The goal is no..._tt o make a perfect listener but a more tolerant one thatcould avoid many mistakes, though it may still be wrong on occasion.
In this summary of my research, Iindicated that problems can occur during communication.
I showed that reference mistakes are one kindof obstacle to robust communication.
To tackle reference errors, I described how to extend thesucceed/fail paradigm followed by previous natural language researchers.I represented real world objects hierarchically in a knowledge base using a representation language,NIKL, that follows in the tradition of semantic networks and frames.
In such a representation framework,the reference identification task looks for a referent by comparing the representation of the speaker'sinput to elements in the knowledge base by using a matching procedure.
Failure to find a referent inprevious reference identification systems resulted in the unsuccessful termination of the reference task.
Iclaim that people behave better than this and explicitly illustrated such cases in an expert-apprenticedomain about toy water pumps \[3\].173Speaker'sOescrlptlonRepresentedOescMptlon~ ' t f l l  rounded maroon dlUiCl the!
Is Iorga"iolor : MOfNI I lllm: eomN / iiiilllllll: D41VicI~ tie; Lorle iDf ,I;r~ Or ,~ I Color: i lN .... 1 c..~,,,..: ,,.~i~?1 ?ZCandidate  Ob jectsCller: Old 1S lille: arielfllllllie~l: SIpP~rt/ Co lor  < Shuoo < Funct ion  < S lzoP l r l l l l  Ordering / Pe+~M-,-~of f l l tUr l lfor roloxollun ~ Color m" Sho l l l  c Funct ion  ?
S l z lUl I I~111 I lCa I L IL~I  Illl/ll411kn lw l ldg l  i ourc l ln/ i l l  Color ( ShIDI lip Function or ~l i lIIIIIPVlIleAIIReorderedCand idate  Object ' :S i l l :  CulIIINM r | Simlw: el'il l+" ' t " ' * " "*~ "*~': '" "'" I " ' ' , , ' : ' " "?
1 i: t C sFigure 2: Reordering referent candidatesI developed a theory of relaxation for recovering from reference failures that provides a much bettermodel for human performance.
When people are asked to identify objects, they appear to behave in aparticular way: find candidates, adjust as necessary, re-try, and, if necessary, give up and ask for help.
Iclaim that relaxation is an integral part of this process and that the particular parameters of relaxationdiffer from task to task and person to person.
My work models the relaxation process and provides acomputational model for experimenting with the different parameters.
The theory incorporates the samelanguage and physical knowledge that people use in performing reference identification to guide therelaxation process.
This knowledge is represented as a set of rules and as data in a hierarchicalknowledge base.
Rule-based relaxation provided a methodical way to use knowledge about languageand the world to find a referent.
The hierarchical representation made it possible to tackle issues ofimprecision and over-specification in a speaker's description.
It allows one to check the position of adescription in the hierarchy and to use that position to judge imprecision and over-specification and tosuggest possible repairs to the description.Interestingly, one would expect that "closest" match would suffice to solve the problem of finding areferent.
1 showed, however, that it doesn't usually provide you with the correct referent.
Closest matchisn't sufficient because there are many features associated with an object and, thus, determining which ofthose features to keep and which to drop is a difficult problem due to the combinatorics and the effects ofcontext.
The relaxation method described circumvents the problem by using the knowledge that peoplehave about language and the physical world to prune down the search space.Future directionsThe FWIM reference identification system I developed models the reference process by theclassification operation of NIKL.
I need a more complicated model for reference.
That model might needa complete identification plan that requires making inferences beyond those provided by classification.The model could also require the execution of a physical action by the listener before determining theproper referent.
Cohen gives two excellent examples of such reference plans (pg.
101, \[2\]).
The first,"the magnetic screwdriver, please," requires the listener to place various screwdrivers against metal todetermine which is magnetic.
The second, "the three two-inch long salted green noodles" requires thelistener to count, examine, measure and taste to discover the proper referent.17~ACKNOWLEDG EMENTSThis research was supported in part by the Center for the Study of Reading under Contract No.400-81-0030 of the National Institute of Education and by the Advanced Research Projects Agency of theDepartment of Defense under Contract No.
N00014-85-C-0079.I want to thank especially Candy Sidner for her insightful comments and suggestions during the courseof this work.
I'd also like to acknowledge the helpful comments of Marie Macaisa and Marc Vilain on thispaper.
Special thanks also to Phil Cohen, Scott Fertig and Kathy Starr for providing me with their waterpump dialogues and for their invaluable observations on them.References~\] Brown, John Seely and VanLehn, Kurt.
"Repair Theory: A Generative Theory of Bugs in Proceduralkills."
Cognitive Science 4, 4 (1980), 379-426.\[2\] Cohen, Philip R. "The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communication."
ComputationalLinguistics 10, 2 (April-June 1984), 97-146.~ \] Goodman, Bradley A. Communication and Miscommunication.
Ph.D.
Th., University of Illinois, rbana, I1., 1984.\[4\] Goodman, Bradley A.
Repairing Reference Identification Failures by Relaxation.
Proceedings of the23rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Chicago, Illinois, July, 1985, pp.204-217.\[5\] Goodman, Bradley A.
Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failures.
Accepted forpublication in Computational Linguistics, 1986.~\] Grosz, Barbara J.
The Representation and Use of Focus in Dialogue Understanding.
Ph.D. Th.,niversity of California, Berkeley, Ca., 1977.
Also, Technical Note 151, Stanford Research Institute,Menlo Park, Ca.\[7\] Joshi, Aravind K. A Note on Partial Match of Descriptions: Can One SimultaneouslyQuestion(Retrieve) and Inform (Update)?
Theoretical Issues in Natural Language Processing-2, Urbana, II1., July,1978, pp.
184-186.175
