Goals of Referring ActsAmichai KronfeldAI CenterandCenter for the Study of Language and InformationSRI International333 Ravenswood AvenueMenlo Park, CA 94025October 15, 19861 Mot ivat ionA pragmatic theory of reference is a theory that specifies and explains the human com-petence to use referring expressions in order to achieve certain goals.
Since the re lat ionbetween referring expressions and speaker's goals is what needs explaining, it is natural toconsider eferring as planned action \[1,4,5\].
This, in turn, requires howing how the use ofreferring expressions i systematically related to changes in the hearer's mental state.
Forthat purpose, we need to know the speaker's goals concerning the hearer's mental state,and therefore, a pragmatic theory of referring must first of all specify and describe thegoals that typically motivate the use of referring expressions.
It is with such goals thatthis paper is concerned.The view that the referring act is a planned effort to achieve certain goals throughlinguistic means simply follows from the fact that referring is a speech act: all speech actsare attempts to achieve certain goals through linguistic means.
However, referring acts(and in general, propositional acts) are significantly different from illocutionary acts suchas asserting and requesting:L i tera l  goals.
In performing one and the same speech act, a speaker may have manydistinct goals.
For example, by saying "The house's on fire!
", a speaker may intend toinform the hearer that the house is on fire, scare the hearer half to death, as well as makethe hearer leave.
Only the first goal, however, is what I call a literal one 1.
Literal goalsare the goals of Gricean communication i tentions, i.e., they are intended to be achieved1The term is taken from Kasher \[9\], where literal purposes are introduced.
My use of the term, though,is slightly different.164partly through the recognition of the intention to achieve them.
Thanks to Austin, Grice,Searle and others, we have a fairly clear notion of what the literal goals of illocutionaryacts are.
For example, the literal goal of a promise is to let the hearer know that thespeaker places himself under an obligation to do something.
But it is not clear at all whatthe literal goal of a referring act is.Cond i t ions  of sat is fact ion.
Illocutionary acts have propositional content, but referringacts do not.
The propositional content of an illocutionary act determines what Searle \[13\]calls its conditions of satisfaction: a request hat the door be opened is satisfied iff someoneopens the door, and an assertion that the door is closed is satisfied (true) iff the door isindeed closed.
But since a referring act lacks propositional content, it is not clear what itsconditions of satisfaction are 2Syntax  and  Semant ics .
In (direct) illocutionary acts, we have a fairly precise correla-tion between syntax and semantics on the one hand, and illocutionary point on the other.Assertions and commands, for example, have their syntactic ounterparts in indicative andimperative sentences, and illocutionary points are represented by performative verbs.
Butwhile a serious utterance of an imperative sentence is almost always taken as a directivetype of speech act, the serious utterance of a noun phrase - even a definite noun phrase -is not necessarily an act of referring.
Similarly, one can promise, say, to pay one's debt bystating: "I hereby promise to pay my debt," but merely uttering "I hereby refer to a friendof mine" is hardly satisfactory.
Thus, the semantic and syntactic clues that enable thehearer to recognize an illocutionary act do not help much as far as referring is concerned.Compos i t iona l i ty .
The major difference between propositional acts and illocutionaryones is that the latter are constructed out of the former and not vice versa.
Referring andpredicating are related to illocutionary acts as the form and meaning of NP's and VP'sare related to the form and meaning of a full sentence.
In pragmatics, as in syntax andsemantics, it must be shown how the whole is a function of its parts.
One way of statingthe problem is in terms of pragmatic presuppositions.
The pragmatic presuppositions of aspeech act can roughly be described as the class of propositions that is characteristicallyassociated with felicitous performances of that speech act.
The truth of these propositionsis mutually believed to be taken for granted by the participants \[8\].
Now, it would bedifficult to see how such a class of pragmatic presuppositions i  generated, unless thepragmatic presuppositions a sociated with illocutionary acts are to a large extent a functionof the pragmatic presuppositions associated with parts of the illocutionary acts, namely,propositional acts.
For example, a pragmatic presupposition of the command "Show methe letter!"
is that it is mutually believed that a certain letter exists and both speaker andhearer know which one it is.
This pragmatic presupposition is generated through other2Note that specifying the conditions of satisfaction of a referring act is not the same as specifying itsliteral goal.
The literal goal of a speech act and its conditions of satisfaction are usually distinct: If I tellyou that I want the door closed and you understand me, the literal goal of my request is achieved.
But it isstill up to you whether or not to satisfy my request.165presuppositions that are associated with the propositional act of referring: for example,that it is mutually believed that the use of the definite article in this case signals ananaphoric link with a referring expression mentioned earlier.To sum up, we have four problems with respect o referring acts which seem harder toresolve than their corresponding problems in a theory of illocutionary acts:1.
What is the literal goal of a referring act?2.
What are its conditions of satisfaction?3.
When is an NP a referring expression, and what role does its meaning play in thereferring act?4.
How does referring contribute to the success of illocutionary acts?In this paper I concentrate on the first two questions.
I argue that in order to answerthem, we must develop a pragmatic (as opposed to an epistem01ogical) concept of referentidentification.
I then sketch a model of referring that is capable of representing such aconcept.2 Literal  and Ident i f icat ion GoalsThe l i tera l  goal  of re ferr ing.
The literal goals of all speech acts are to affect thebearer's propositional attitudes in a particular way.
Intuitively, the point of referring isto let the hearer know what is being talked about.
The literal goal of the referring actmust be, therefore, to make the hearer believe that it is mutually believed by all participantsthat a noun phrase is being used as a referring expression, and that ~identification" of aparticular object is required.Rules  for ident i f icat ion.
What counts as "proper identification" changes from dis-course to discourse.
For example, in "Replace this 300-ohm-resistor," the hearer is askedto "identify" the referent in the sense of locating it in his visual field.
But in "Tell mewhat other plays were written by the author of Hamlet," visual identification is clearly notrequired, although the hearer is still expected to identify the author of Hamlet in anotherway.
If the point of the referring act is the establishment of mutual agreement as to whichobject is being talked about, then a necessary condition for successful referring is that thehearer understand the ground rules for establishing such mutual agreement.
These groundrules, which change from discourse to discourse, should be arrived at by the analysis ofwhat we call the pragmatic notion of referent identification.Ident i f i ca t ion  goals.
Understanding the ground rules for referent identification is notthe same as following these rules.
While the literal goal of a referring act is that the hearerrecognize the speaker's intentions that the hearer identify an object in a particular way, thecondition of satisfaction of the referring act is that the hearer actually identify the referent166as required.
Under typical circumstances, understanding the utterance "Replace the 300-ohm resistor" entails understanding that visual identification of the resistor is required.Another question entirely is whether actual identification eventually takes place.
Let uscall the goal that actual identification takes place as required the identification goal.To sum up, we have defined the literal goal and the conditions of satisfaction of refer-ring in terms of what the hearer is supposed to believe and do respectively.
The literal goalis divided into two parts: first, making the hearer believe that identification of a particularobject is required, and second, making him realize what kind of identification is appropri-ate.
The referring act is satisfied when the hearer successfully follows the rules for correctidentification.3 A Mode l  of Referent  Ident i f icat ionHow can literal and identification goals be represented in a model of referring?
We needtwo concepts, individuating sets and identification constraints.I nd iv iduat ing  sets.
Any model of referring must include representations of objects inthe agent's model of the world.
Such representations must be grouped into individuatingsets.
An individuating set S of an agent A is a maximal set of terms, all believed by Ato denote the same object.
The terms that constitute an individuating set can be eitherperceptual or descriptive.
Perceptual terms are obtained by perceptual acts (e.g.
lookingat  an object), while descriptive terms are obtained through the use of referring expressionsin discourse 3A speaker intends to invoke or activate an individuating set when he intends a particularindividuating set to be used in the interpretation of the current utterance.
The notion ofan individuating set being invoked or activated is closely related to the idea of an itembeing in focus during a discourse segment \[6,7\].
One can imagine a dynamic stack of activeindividuating sets representing the objects under discussion.Do we really need individuating sets?
The answer is yes, for two important reasons.First, individuating sets provide elegant solutions for several problems that are raisedby the Referential/Attributive distinction \[10,11,12\].
Second, as we have seen, a majorproblem for a referring model is specifying the conditions under which a hearer can be saidto have identified the intended referent.
Some authors have required that for identificationto take place, the agent must possess a standard name or a rigid designator that denotesthe referent.
But very few objects are endowed with standard names, and it can be easilyshown that a rigid designator is neither sufficient nor necessary for successful referentidentification \[12\].
Moreover, requiring agents to know standard names or rigid designatorsfor individuals that they refer to makes some undesirably strong predictions about whata speaker must know in order to refer to something \[2\].
Using individuating sets we cansolve these problems.3For a more detailed discussion of indiv iduat ing sets and their terms see \[3,12\].167Ident i f i ca t ion  const ra in ts  As noted earlier, "identification" should be interpreted prag-matically.
Referent identification does not mean knowing who (or what) the referent is,but rather knowing who or what is being talked about.
In general, the requirements forreferent identification can be characterized in terms of constraints that the speaker placeson the activated individuating set.
I call these constraints identification constraints.Let S be the activated individuating set.
The following examples illustrate differentidentification constraints on S:Example  1 Take this chair to my office.In Example 1, the hearer should "identify" the chair in the sense of locating it in hisvisual field.
We can express this requirement as a constraint on S that it contain a newperceptual term.Example  2 Do you remember the brown desk I used to have in my office?In Example 2, the identification constraint is that the S should contain an old perceptualterm, i.e.
"identification" consists of connecting a definite description with an image inmemory.Example  3 A friend of mine has just won $10,000 in a sweepstakes, but the lucky bastardwill probably gamble it all away.Identification constraint: that S activated by the description "The lucky bastard" beaugmented to include a term that has already been introduced into the discourse.
"Iden-tification" here is simply making an anaphoric onnection.Example  4 My sister has just got married.
The lucky man met her only three weeks ago.Identification constraint: the S should contain the description "the husband of the speaker'ssister".
Note the difference between this case and Example 3: the description "my sister'shusband" was never mentioned, and had to be deduced by the hearer.
The deduction, ofcourse, is a necessary condition for successful identification.Example  5 The man whose fingerprints these are, whoever he is, must be insane.Assume that the context of Example 5 is as follows: the speaker is investigating the horriblemurder of Smith, and he has just found clear fingerprints on what he believes to be themurder weapon.
The speaker, of course, wishes to assert that whoever murdered poorSmith in such a terrible way must be insane.
Hence the identification constraint is thatthe S should contain the description "Smith's murderer".
This example illustrates whywe insist that identification as the goal of the referring act is a pragmatic, rather thanan epistemological concept.
Neither speaker, nor hearer in this case have any idea whomurdered Smith, and thus, they cannot identify him in any epistemological sense of theterm.
But from a pragmatic point of view, there is a clear dichotomy: if the hearer makesthe connection between "The man whose fingerprints these are," and "Smith's murderer,"he has identified who the speaker is talking about.
Otherwise, he has not.168Example  6 I met an old friend of mine yesterday.This is the case of the null set of identification constraints.
S contains a single term, andthis is sufficient for pragmatic identification.These examples how that the requirements for referent identification can be verydiverse indeed.
They all can be represented, however, as constraints on relations amongindividuating sets.The referr ing act.
Armed with the concepts of individuating sets and identificationconstraints, we can characterize the act of referring as an act of conveying an ordered pair:an individuating set (which becomes the active one), and a set of identification constraints.The literal goal of the referring act is that it is mutually known by all participants whichindividuating set is active, and what the identification constraints are.
The referring actis satisfied if the hearer is able to manipulate the active individuating set in such a waythat all identification constraints are met.AcknowledgementsThis research was supported by the National Science Foundation under grant DCR-8407238.I am grateful to Doug Appelt for comments on earlier drafts, and for lots of stimulatingdiscussions on the problem of constructing a computational model of referring.References\[1\] Douglas E. Appelt.
Planning English Sentences.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, England, 1985.\[2\] Douglas E. Appelt.
Some pragmatic issues in the planning of definite and indefinitenoun phrases.
In Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Meeting, Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, 1985.\[3\] Douglas E. Appelt.
Toward a plan-based theory of referring actions.
In Proceedings ofthe 3rd International Workshop on Language Generation, Nijmegen, The Netherlands,August 19-23 1986.\[4\] Philip R. Cohen.
On Knowning What to Say: Planning Speech Acts.
PhD thesis,University of Toronto, 1978.\[5\] Philip R. Cohen and C. Raymond Perrault.
Elements of a plan-based theory of speechacts.
Cognitive Science, 3:117-212, 1979.\[6\] Barbara J. Grosz.
Focusing and description i  natural language dialogues.
In A. Joshi,I.
Sag, and B. Webber, editors, Elements of Discourse Understanding, pages 85-105,Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England, 1980.169\[7\]\[8\]Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner.
Discourse structure and the proper treat-ment of interruptions.
In Proceedings of the Ninth International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence, pages 832-839, 1985.Asa Kasher.
Philosphy and discourse analysis.
In Handbook of Discourse Analysis,Vol.
1, chapter 9, pages 231-248, Academic Press, Inc., 1985.\[9\] Asa Kasher.
What is a theory of use.
Journal of Pragmaics, 1:105-120, 1977.\[10\] Amichai Kronfeld.
The Referential Attributive Distinction and the Conceptual-Descriptive Theory of Reference.
PhD thesis, University of California, Berkeley, 1981.\[11\]\[121\[131Amichai Kronfeld.
Reference and Denotation: The Descriptive Model.
TechnicalNote 368, SRI International Artificial Intelligence Center, 1985.Amichai Kronfeld.
Donnellan's distinction and a computational model of reference.In Proceedings of the 24th Annual Meeting, Association for Computational Linguistics,1986.John Searle.
Intentionality: An Essay in the Philosophy of Mind.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, Cambridge, England, 1983.170
