Reference and Pragmatic IdentificationDouglas E. AppeItArtificial Intelligence CenterCenter for the Study of Language and InformationSRI International1 Identif ication Constraints.Kronfeld \[9\] has presented the outline of a theory of referring that provides an excellentframework for explaining how referring actions operate in various contexts.
However, italso raises some important questions, one of which I will examine in greater detail in thispaper.
This question is "Where do identification constraints come from?
"According to Kronfeld's model, the literal goal of a referring action is to make itmutually believed that "identification" of some entity is required.
This idea is similar tothat advanced by Cohen \[2,3\], who argues in favor of analyzing referring as the illocutionaryact of requesting as opposed to a propositional act, whereas Kronfeld's model retainsaspects of the propositional ct analysis.
Regardless of the details of the proposal adopted,it does little good to say merely that a referring action requires identification of the referent,because the precise facts that must be known for a hearer to say that he has identified areferent is different in practically every case.In the model under consideration, an individual is represented to an agent by an in-dividuating set of terms, each believed to denote the individual.
The ultimate goal of areferring action is to induce the hearer to identify a subset of one of his individuating setsthat satisfies a number of identification constraints.
The speaker and hearer must mutuallyknow what the relevant identification constraints are in the current situation.
Given thisgeneral theory of referring, the key problem becomes the explanation of how the speakerand hearer can agree on what identification constraints are currently applicable.The point of this paper is that identification constraints come from a variety of sources,including knowledge about actions, general world knowledge, particular facts about the sit-uation at hand, the semantic ontent of the referring expression, and principles of discourse.Each of these is an important area of analysis in its own right.
I shall suggest how thevarious aspects of reference addressed by the members of the TINLAP-3 reference panel fittogether under this general framework.1492 Constra ints  from World KnowledgeGoodman \[6\] states that "Reference identification is a search process where a listenerlooks for something in the world that satisfies a speaker's uttered description."
One canargue that this definition is too restrictive because it does not apply to situations in whichan epistemological notion of identification is inappropriate.
However, for task orienteddialogues uch as those of Goodman's protocols, it is correct.
The speaker and hearerare cooperating on a task that involves physical manipulation of assorted parts and tools.A reasonable theory of action would imply that physical manipulation of objects requiresperception of the objects by the agent, and such a theory would be mutually believed byall agents.
Therefore, the requirement that the individuating set contain a term resultingfrom some perceptual action would apply to nearly every reference to material objects inthis domain.Goodman's research is centered primarily on the problem of satisfying the referringrequest by carrying out the identification plan.
Some of the bizarre referring expres-sions obtained from Goodman's protocols \[5\] are quite reasonable from the standpoint ofachieving the literal referring oals.
When the speaker used the referring expression "thechampagne top sort of looking bottom" to refer to the tube base of the water pump, itis clear that (1) he inter/ded the hearer to perceive the part, because he was asking thehearer to manipulate it, and (2) the referring description, consisting of perceptual de-scriptors, suggests a plan of visually observing objects in the domain and comparing theircharacteristics to those indicated by the description.
The hearer in Goodman's protocolwas unable to identify the intended object given this odd description, which demonstratesthe need for the speaker to take both the satisfaction plan as well as the literal goals intoaccount when planning a referring expression.3 Constra ints  from Def in i tenessThe use of a definite determiner in a referring expression introduces an additional con-straint on the bearer's individuating set: the individuating set must exist at the time ofthe utterance, or it must be implicitly associated \[4\] with an existing individuating set, i.e.its existence can be inferred from its association with an existing entity.
This constraintprevents the hearer from creating an individuating set containing only the speaker's refer-ring expression, which would amount o hypothesizing an entirely new entity.
There is nosuch constraint associated with the indefinite determiner, which leaves the hearer free tohypothesize new individuating sets in the absence of any other prohibitive constraints.150Other constraints may be brought o bear on the individuating set as well.
For exam-ple, if the speaker is requesting the hearer to manipulate the entity introduced with theindefinite article, a perceptual term must be part of the individuating set.
For example, ifthe speaker says "There is a philips screwdriver in the toolbox that you can use to fix thepump," the hearer's individuating set must contain a perceptual term denoting some exist-ing object that he can perceive.
Contextual information can sometimes be strong enoughto imply a very strict criterion for referent identification.
For example, at a testimonialdinner honoring John, a speaker says "We are gathered here to honor a gentleman and ascholar."
The hearer must know there is only one person honored at the banquet, and thatis John.
Therefore, the individuating set specified must be the same as his individuatingset for John, except that it must contain the descriptors "gentleman" and "scholar."
Thespeaker has exploited the overwhelming contextual influence to produce an expression thatperforms both informing and referring functions.
This strategy is called action subsump-tion \[1\].
Dahl \[4\] discusses everal more complex situations in which the use of an indefinitenoun phrase is not permitted to introduce new individuals.4 Const ra in ts  f rom DiscourseA particularly interesting set of referring expressions are those that also have anaphoricconnection to the preceeding discourse.
Not all anaphoric expressions are referring ex-pressions.
For example, in the sentence "No A I  researcher will admit that he is wrong.
"neither the pronoun he nor its antecedent is a referring expression.
However, pronounsand anaphoric definite noun phrases are frequently referring expressions.
Because pronounsmust refer anaphorically (or to some very salient object in the context), the identificationconstraints that apply to a pronominal referring expression are simple to state: The activeindividuating set must contain a term from the individuating set intended by a previousreference to the same individual, with gender and number providing additional constraintson the possible referent.It is not so simple, however, to state how the saris/action of the anaphoric identificationrequest takes place.
Much research in re~ent years has been devoted to this problem,including (to mention only a few instances) recent work on discourse context and centeringby Grosz, Joshi, Sidner, and Weinstein \[7,8\], and Webber \[10,11\].
It is far beyond thescope of this paper to discuss this work here, or to add anything to it.
The reader shouldbear in mind that the principles of centering and the construction of discourse models,event/situation structures, etc.
are all mutually known to the speaker and hearer in adialogue.
The speaker takes these principles into account when reasoning about how the151hearer can formulate a plan to identify the referent of an anaphoric referring expression.Identification constraints from multiple sources are necessary to explain changes thatmay take place in the identification constraints applicable to different instances of coref-erential expressions.
Consider the following sequence of utterances:I am looking for a screwdriver.It has a green handle.Have you seen it recently?In the first sentence, no constraints apply to the identification of the referent of "a screw-driver."
The hearer therefore constructs a new individuating set to represent i .
In under-standing the second sentence, the hearer uses the centering algorithm to determine thatthe intended individuating set for the pronoun is the same as the one intended in the firstsentence.
The fact that the hearer intends the same individuating set for the pronounin the third sentence can also be determined from the centering algorithm.
However, thefact that the hearer is asked if he has seen the object implies that an additional identi-fication constraint must be imposed on the individuating set at that time: the referentmust be perceptually identified.
A cooperative speaker must reason that the hearer hasenough knowledge to satisfy the identification request before deciding that "it" constitutesan appropriate referring expression.5 ConclusionIf referring is to be regarded as an action that requires the hearer to pragmatically identifythe referent of a description, then it is important o describe how it is that the speakerand hearer know what pragmatic identification means in a given situation.
This papersuggests that the situation dependent meaning of identification follows from general worldknowledge, the syntactic and semantic structure of the referring expression itself, andprinciples of discourse anaphora resolution.
This is by no means an exhaustive analysis ofthe ways in which identification conditions are recognized, but is rather intended to providethe first steps toward the analys{s of reference in a framework that links the results severaldiverse research programs.AcknowledgementsThis research was supported by the National Science Foundation under grant DCR-8407238.
The author is grateful to Amichai Kronfeld for comments on the draft of this152article, and for stimulating discussion of these and related issues.References\[1\] Douglas E. Appelt.
Planning English Sentences.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, England, 1985.\[2\] Philip R. Cohen.
The need for identification as a planned action.
In Proceedings of theSeventh International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pages 31-36, 1981.\[3\] Philip R. Cohen.
Referring as requesting.
In Proceedings of the Tenth InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics, pages 207-211, 1984.\[4\] Deborah Dahl.
Determiners, entities, and contexts.
In this volume.\[5\] Brad Goodman.
Repairing reference identification failures by relaxation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 23rd Annual Meeting, pages 204-217, Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 1985.\[6\] Bradly A. Goodman.
Reference and reference failures.
In this volume.\[7\] Barbara J. Grosz, A. Joshi, and S. Weinstein.
Providing a unified account of defi-nite noun phrases in discourse.
In Proceedings of the Twenty-first Annual Meeting,pages 44-50, Association for Computational Linguistics, 1983.\[8\] Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner.
Discourse structure and the proper treat-ment of interruptions.
In Proceedings of the Ninth International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence , pages 832-839, 1985.\[9\] Amichai Kronfeld.
Goals of referring acts.
In this volume.\[10\] Bonnie L. Webber.
Description formation and discourse model synthesis.
In Proceed-ings of TINLAP-2, pages 42-50, 1978.\[11\] Bonnie L. Webber.
Event reference.
In this volume.153
