A Situated Perspective on Natural-LanguageProcessingSusan U. StuckyStanford UniversityUse the word 'situated' these days and all anyone can think of is situationsemantics, t That's unfortunate from my point of view, because \[ would like to explorean idea that follows from ideas handily referred to as "a situated perspective."
(Notsurprisingly, both situation semantics and its companion logic situation theory are byand large consistent with this point of view, but they aren't the only way of workingout a theory compatible with it.)
Viewing computation, language, and inferencethrough this perspective, \[ will maintain, suggests a conception of natural-languageprocessing both more complicated and more realistic than that underlying much ofcurrent practice.
No system yet exists under this conception, though there is oneunder design Isee note 4): therefore all \[ can reasonably hope to do is engage yourinterest and convince you that the overall conception merits consideration.This "situated perspective" \[ have in mind is best thought of as a cluster ofmutually reinforcing assumptions.
As implied, these assumptions don't constitute atheory in and of themselves; they're merely indicative of one.
or several Furthermore.a curious fact is that many of the underlying assumptmns are unobjectionable.They're the sort of thing about which you find yourself ~.hinking well, who couldargue with that.
Take the claim that language is efficient--Barwise and Perry's wayof referring to the fact that you can use the same expression over and ,)vet" again to talkabout different hings.
That's as familiar a notion as the productivity of language(Barwise and Perry, 1983}.
Thus, to claim that language is efficient is to claim thatinterpretation depends on context: to know what the interpretation f the word 'you' is(i.e., who is being referred to) on a particular occasion of use depends on who you aretalking to.
(\[ will be using the word 'interpretation' to mean the actual stuff referredto, the properties it is said to have etc.}
Yet, if you pair the claim about thecontext-dependency of interpretation of language with the equally reasonable claimthat computational processes imilarly have context-dependent i terpretations, youare all set for the more complicated perspective on natural-language processing \[mentioned.
2 At least, this is what \[ am going to argue.Another central assumption of the "situated perspective" is the idea thatmeaning is relational.
A kingpin of situation semantics, this assumption follows quite144reasonably from even a modest version of realism.
Facts about the truth or falsity ofan utterance are determined by the actual situation (used non-technically here), factsabout the conversation and its participants as well as facts about the language.
Thus,the meaning of the phrase 'near here' is a relation among the facts about the situationthe phrase is used in, the phrase itself, and what it is being used to describe.Though I won't catalog the assumptions that make up this "situatedperspective" ntirely (others will emerge as we go along), I will briefly discuss one thatisn't necessary to the "situated perspective", as far as I'm.
concerned, though it figurescentrally in situation semantics.
\[ am not going to assume that meaning andinterpretation can be defined in terms of observable behaviour (even broadlyinterpreted) without reference to internal architecture.
Nor am \[ going to assume theycan't.
Similarly, I'm not going to assume you can or can't explain the structure oflanguage in terms of external phenomena.
A plausible assmption is that it may welltake a pretty complicated story on both sides to provide an adequate theory oflanguage use.
What matters most to the situated perspective is the circumstantialdependence of interpretation, where circumstance is not restricted to phenomenaexternal to the machine.Now, let's put these three assumptions together- - that  interpretation for bothlanguage and computational process is context-dependent, that meaning is relational,and that a plausible explanation of language and language use may well make appealto a generous upply of facts about both internal and external phenomena.
Here's away of thinMng about natural- language processing in this situated perspective.
Westart with an agent to whom an expression u in some language has been put.
The~gent hen processes u and arrives at some internal slate m. where rn is a state of themachine, defined at a particular level of description of the machine.
Which level isthat?
The one that has interpretation that can be outside the machine and in virtue or'which the machine understands u.
Now there are a variety of relations that could holdbetween u and m, but one possible constraint is that u and m have the sameinterpretation; they describe the same state of the world.
To put this more concretely,we obviously want the plane that the air controller efers to with his or her use of thephrase 'that plane' to be the same plane that the resulting m is about.
(Of course, umight correspond to one or more re's, and vice-versa.)
An important point is that u andrn can't have the same meaning: if we have adopted a relational account of meaning,then what u is related to (eg., states of the world and rn) and what rn is related to (eg.,states of the world, other states of mind or machine, and u) are fairly likely not to bethe same.
This perspective rules out one familiar approach to natural languageprocessing, namely, the one in which a representation f the syntax of u tRsu) is firstcomputed (e.g., by parsing), whereupon a representation f the meaning of u (Rmu) issaid to be computed from R~u.
whereupon it is assumed that R,nu is the same as Rmm145(a representation f the meaning of m).
Well, all right, you say, but suppose that whatis really computed from Rsu is R,u, a representation f the interpretation of u. Then,you ask, can I assume Riu - Rim?
Well, you can.
But then the chickens come home toroost.
After all, Rim isn't m itself.
And given the circumstantial dependence of m'sinterpretation, getting from R,m to m may not be trivial.
For instance, suppose thatwe've adopted a default such that the time at some point in the computation is taken tobe whatever time it is when some particular bit of program is evaluated.
Then Rimmight be "15-OCT-86 16:30:17" where m is a kind of internal indexical having theforce of'now'.
Thus, what we want, ideally, is a system that can go directly from 'now'in u to an internal state having the equivalent interpretation, in a theoreticallyprincipled fashion, and without invoking an intermediate representation i  whichwhat time it is is explicitly represented.
And this seems right: after all, we can dealwith the word 'now' without knowing what time it is.As promised, this situated perspective does seem to have complicated things.You can't just take your favorite grammar formalism, code it up, implement a parser,derive a semantic representation a d be done with it (as if that were an easy thing todo).
You can't, on this view, design a language front-end for a system, unless you knowthe structure of the relevant level of description of the computation.
And we'vedemonstrated that that level can't be analyzed as being equivalent to therepresentation of the meaning or intepretation of the expressions of the languagebeing processed.On the other hand, there's a positive side to all this.
It may well be possible toget from u to m in much more direct ways than we have so far imagined.
And, havingtheories of the various kinds of contextual dependency and how thery interrelateshould allow for more realistic (if you will pardon the pun) systems.
As I said in thebeginning, all this context-dependence isn't a surprise.
Anyone who has takennatural-language processing seriously has had to come to grips with that property oflanguage from the very beginning.
It's just that many theories of language andcomputation haven't.Imagine, if you will, a system that understands a situated language, for whichthere is a well understood escription of the level of computation relevant tointerpretation of the sort we have been discussing and manifests what we might callsituated inference.
(Note that if interpretation of internal structures is contextdependent, hen inference is, de t:acto, situated.)
Moreover, if inference is really goingto be situated, then we won't be needing to flesh out (or even necessarily disambiguate)absolutely everything upon internalization, in principle anyway.
For instance, wemight expect a situated robot, upon discovering a note on .Jones' door saying "I'm atlunch" to infer directly that Jones was not there then and so not deliver the cup of teait was carrying; and do this without using a sort of logical form that has the import of146"Jones is not in his office at 12:00 p.m. October 15, 1986".
In other words, we wouldexpectour  situated inference ngine to do situated inference.
And, we expect hisbecause of the overlap in the (temporal) circumstances of the situation of inference andthe situation being reasoned about: it's being in the stuff it reasons about is preciselywhat makes it situated.
Of course, if Jones later complains to me that my robot failedto deliver the tea he had ordered, I will also expect that the robot will have thecapability of rendering explicit more information about the time of the failed delivery,but it need not do so initially.
3 One way of looking at this is to see that it will helpkeep our robot from drowning in information.
4I said at the beginning that the situated per.~pective was compatible withsituation semantics and its companion logical theory Can we expect he latter to helpin the design of such situated systems?
The answer is yes, I think, but not in the wayyou (or Barwise and Perry) might have expected.
Because situation semantics andsituation theory are designed to account for the circumstantial relativity ofinterpretation, the language of situation theory is a good vehicle for a theorist o use ingiving an account of the full interplay of language, inference, and computation on theview sketched here.
Similarly, situation semantics isn't a bad way to go about givingan account of the external significance of language, as surely we must.
On the otherhand, coding up some situation semantics or replacing the semantic representation ina current system with a representation of situation semantics won't do justice, itseems, either to situation semantics or to the machine.NotesIThanks are due to the Situated Inference Engine project member~ at CSLI forclarification of many the ideas discussed in this paper.
The research reported on wasmade possible by a gift from the System Development Foundation to CSLI: I would liketo thank the foundation for helping to create an environment in whichmufti-disciplinary research projects such as the SIE are both enc,)uraged andsupported.2I say "equally reasonable" as if it were a) obvious that there are suchdependencies and b) easy to say what these dependencies are  It does seem obvious(though it is not often ackowledged) that a lisp expression can be on a particularoccasion of use about a particular airplaine, say the one just now landing at SanFransisco International On the other hand, it seems far from obvious that it will beeasy to say what these dependencies are.
As in the natural language case, theinformation carried (by the execution of a program, for instance) is complex:dependencies arise from both the internal machine environment and the state of theexternal world.
Delimiting the kinds of" context and finding appropriate ways to147characterize the complex of relations has only just begun.
For work relevant o thesituated perspective laid out here, see in particular (Smith, 1986a).3Of course it is a long way from expectation to reality.
For a characterization ofthe internal structures that are causally responsible for an agent's or system's actions,those that have interpretations in the sense I have been using them here, see Smith(1986b).4Such a system is not entirely fantasy The Situated Inference (SIE) project atCSLI is a project o design and build a computational system that engages in situatedinference.
However, the point is not just that the language the SIE uses will besituated (that much is true of current natural language systems).
Or even thatinternal structure depends likewise on circumstance for interpretation (that much istrue of current systems).
Rather the interest lies in the SIE's being designed with twoadditional purposes in mind: ?i) all three, inference, internal structures, and languagewill be situated in compatible ways, and (ii) there is a commitment o develop acommon theoretical framework in terms of which to understand the full interplayamong language, content, and the internal structures etc.
Progress reports on the SIEappear from time to time in the CSL\[ Monthly, a publication of The Center for theStudy of Language and Information, Ventura Hall, Stanford University.
Stanford CA.94305.ReferencesBarwise, K. J. and Perry J.
1983.
Situations and Attitudes.
Cambridge,Massachusetts: The MIT Press.Smith, B. C. 1986a.
The Correspondence Continuum.
In Proceedings of the SixthCanandian AI Conference.Smith, B. C. 1986b.
Varieties of Self-Reference.
In J. Halpern {Ed.)
Procedings of the1986 Conference on Theoretical Aspects of Reasoningabout Knowledge.
LosAltos, Calif.: Morgan Kaufmann, 19-43.
Revised version to appear in ArtificialIntelligence.148
