Poetic and Prosaic MetaphorsGeoffiey NunbergXerox PARC and CSL\[, StanfordMetaphor (some people say) is "the dreamwork of language," where ideas arecombined in ways that are "special, odd, or startling."
Metaphor is a "mutation" oflanguage, a phenomenon that relies crucially on our recognition of its "deviance" or"nonsensicality."
Metaphor, if it means at all (it may only "suggest" or "evoke"), does notmean as literal anguage does.
Metaphor is the stuff of "playful prose and high poetic m't.
"Metaphor (say others) "covers the entire semantic, semiological and performativefield of language" and "is natural and widespread in our speech, not having any apparentspecial status.
"Well, but (we say) there are ways and ways of being a metaphor.
What some peopleare talking about are the "fresh" and "vivid" figures that puilulate in poetry, play, and therudimentary stages of theory-building.
For them, metaphor is essentially an rhetoricalcategory, identified by its affective import.
Whereas other people take metaphor to beessentially a semantic phenomenon, which crucially involves a perception of transfer ofextension of meaning or application.In the standard story, moreover, there is no real conflict between these views.Metaphors begin their lives as novel poetic creations with marked rhetorical effects, whosecomprehension requires a special imaginative l ap.
As time goes by, they become a part ofgeneral usage, now "stale," "worn," and "idiomatic"; their comprehension becomes moreautomatic, and their rhetorical effect is dulled.
Finally, as "dead" or "frozen" metaphors,they are not psychologically distinct from literally-used terms.
In point of fact, "mostlexical items prove to be dead metaphors that ~vere alive and kicking at some time in thepast."
The natural conclusion is that there is a difference in conversational status betweenthe "poetic metaphors" that strike our fancy and the "prosaic metaphors" that pass byunnoticed in our ordinary discourse.
The former arise out of conversational implicatures,indirect speech acts, or whatever, while the latter are matters of literal or conventionalmeaning.
Not surprisingly, this leads in turn to the assumption that we ought to be able toexplain the rhetorical effect of poetic metaphors in virtue of their conversational properties,as something that grows directly out of the process of inference required in non-literalcomprehension.The standard story does explain some of the differences in our intuitive reactions wehave to metaphorical utterances.
It is beyond dispute that metaphors do work their wayinto literality, and may lose some of their luster along the way.
If you say in English "heanswered in the wink of an eye" you occasion o special rhetorical effect; but if you say inFrench "I1 a repondu en un clin d'oeil," you may get credit for a slightly clever turn ofphrase, ~imply because the French have not made this expression a commonplace.But there is more to the distinction between "poetic" and "prosaic" figures thanthat; ultimately, it transcends dimensions of relative novelty and conventionality.
On theone hand, there are extensions of meaning that are so natural, so obvious, that they mustsurely be have been counted prosaic on first utterance--indeed, they must have been bornalong with the literal meaning of a term.
For example, I imagine that the discovery that theword chicken could be used to refer to chicken meat could not have taken too long once ithad been established that the bird was edible.
Nor did it want a vast leap of imagination torealize that the word sun could be used to refer to the volume directly illuminated by thesun (as in "we were standing in the sun") or (to take an example from Sam Levin) that the198word tremble, once applied to the shaking or quivering of an animal, would do as well todescribe the oscillations of the earth or of leaves in the wind.
In many cases like these, infact, we may be reluctant to speak of"figures of speech" at all, and say rather that the wordschicken, sun and tremble are "polysemous," and have several "related literal meanings.
"Now if by this we mean only that the extended usages are prosaic and common, and thathearers probably do not work them out afresh on every hearing, then \[ have no objection tocalling these "literal meanings."
But it is a mistake to try to argue from our intuition for theunremarkableness of these usages to the conclusion that they are prescribed bylanguage-specific rules or convention, or that the figuration that underlies them is in anysense "dead" or "idiomatic."
The uses are unremarkable precisely because they areobvious, and so can take hold in the general practice without the introduction of any specialrules.
(If you are just learning Italian, say, and know that i/sole is the word for the sun, itwouldn't occur to you to check before using the same word to refer to an volumeilluminated by the sun.
You'd figure---rightly--that the Italians would make the sameobvious moves that we do.)
In any event, it is clear that the figuration involved in thesecases has never had and could never have had the power to startle us.Much the same point can be made about other transfers of application, which arelicensed only by the circumstances of a particular narrow context, and so could not becomepart of conventional usage.
Say you want someone who knows nothing about cars to handyou one of those little tools you use to pry open a spark-plug gap, which in this casehappens to be shaped like a clothespin.
"Hand me the clothespin," you say metaphorically.Now it's unlikely that your interlocutor has ever heard clothespin used in this way, norcould that word ever become the standard means of referring to spark-plug ap adjusters(which come in different shapes).
But your remark is clearly lacking in the divine emollientof poetry.On the other hand, there is plenty of poetry in many of the metaphors that havebeen adopted by the general use, even those that have become in some measureconventionalized.
Indeed, it is precisely because they are evocative that we have madeidioms of expressions like knock one's socks off lick one's wounds, or steal someone'sthunder.
It is true that there is a difference between the effect of these figures and thoseoffered in "real poetry" (which by our lights must own an individual author).
But there isno missing the spirit of play in these figures, which is absent in the use of clothespin toidentify a nameless tool, or of chicken to refer to a kind of meat.
This pleasure surviveseven after the motive for an idiomatic metaphor has been largely obscured.
Who knowswhy we rob Peter to pay Paul, rather than Max to pay Marvin?
What is clear is that thepersonification of exigent circumstances gives them a satisfyingly lighthearted cast, and som some measure alleviates them.What I'm calling "poetic" metaphors are just those that we ,associate with "play,""affect," "evocation," pleasure," or whatever.
(It is not important hat we be able to saywhat pleasure is, so long as we know it when we feel it.)
What I'm calling "prosaicmetaphors," on the other hand, are those that strike us ,as involving no-nonsense referentialbusiness-as-usual.Where does the difference between the two types of figures come from?
Not, wehave seen, from differences in the degree of their conventionality, Nor, surely, from thenature of the mechanism involved transfer or reapplication of the meaning of an expression.The same principles of transfer (based on physical resemblance) that license the prosaicapplication of clothesp#t to a tool result in a poetic (if not exactly sublime) figure when theword is applied to a skinny person.
It is not poetic to use beerto refer to the interval of time199over which beers are served, as in I could have toldyou the answer two beers ago; it is poeticto use grief in the same way, as in Dylan Thomas's a grief ago.What makes all the difference here, rather, is the degree to which a usage is justifiedin terms of a strictly instrumental rationality.
I take it as obvious that metaphor andfiguration are ways ofd0ing whatever we do with expressions: referring, predicating, and soforth.
That is, figuration is a certain way of identifying objects, properties, and relations.For the present purposes, I'll stick to the referring uses of expressionsmthe clothespin, thatwitch, and so on.
Let's say that a figurative use of such a expression is instrumentallyrational in a given context if a rational agent would conclude that this use offers the speakeran optimal probability of success in enabling the hearer to identify the thing he is talkingabout, for such purposes as are conversationally relevant, and that it is that considerationthat motivated the speaker to use the expression in that way.
(This definition would requirevarious qualifications before it could be airtight, but it will do for here.
)Take the case in which we want to enable someone to pick out a tool from among anarray.
In this case, the tool has no commonly used name, and even if it did, we could notexpect hat an automotively unsophisticated hearer would be able to identify this tool solelyon the basis of its appearance, armed only with its name.
A description of its function ("thegap adjuster") would be of no more use, for the same reasons.
We are left with getting thehearer to identify it in virtue of its appearance, ither by describing it in such terms ("thelittle thing with two prongs"), or by describing it using the name of something elsemaclothespin, a fork, whatever--that it resembles more than anything else in the array.
Nowthere are any number of factors that might make one or the other of these approaches theoptimal strategy for accomplishing reference.
It depends how easily the protrusions on thetool are identified as prongs, how much thetool looks in silhouette like a typical clothespin,how likely it is in this context that the speaker might have been looking for an actualclothespin, or that the hearer might have thought he could have been looking tbr an actualclothespin, and so on.
Then too, you have to calculate the likelihood--here, pretty good--that the hearer will know that the speaker will be going after the referent in virtue of itsappearance, rather than its function or something else.
And of course you have to run allthese factors through various strategies for arriving at common belief.
But it is clear enoughthat the speaker thought it was an optimal way of accomplishing reference, and that that'swhy he used the term.
At the very least, it would be irrational to ascribe to him any ulteriormotive.Now suppose you're trying to get me to try on a jacket with wide horizontal stripes,and I, ample, say "Not me.
Offer it to the clothespin you were just talking to."
A poeticfigure, in our (extremely generous) sense of the term.
And it counts as poetic for tworeasons.
First, it's pretty likely that I could' have used another expression--say the skinnyfellow, though depending on the circumstances it might do as well to say the man with thered cap, or Jackson--if I were interested only in optimizing the probability that you couldpick out the person I had in mind ~ a reasonable customer for the jacket.
This, on theassumption that it's easier to pick out skinny than to pick out clothespin-resembling, at leastso far as any array of potential jacket customers is concerned.
What's more, you canconstruct an ulterior motive for my saying things the way 1 did.
Briefly, I'm behaving in away that wouM be instrumentally rational if the world were different: in particular, if peoplelike Jackson were most readily picked out in virtue of their physical resemblance toclothespins.
(Though in another context, to be sure, I could have been counting on thefunction of clothespins to enable reference to go through.)
This would be the case only ifJackson looked a great deal more like a clothespin than he did like anything else; indeed, if200he were more readily identifiable as looking like a clothespin than ,as merely "skinny."
Nowit could be, I suppose, that l am pretending that clothespins are more anthropomorphicthan they are (and there are metaphors that work this way).
But it's a sad fact that we takemore pleasure in exaggerating the physical peculiarities of people than of householdimplements; it is funnier to imagine Jackson as looking like nothing so much as a clothespinthan to imagine aclothespin looking like nothing so much as Jackson.Now for the use of beer and grief to refer to intervals.
Beers do come at publiclyobservable intervals, which are moreover the most relevant stages for chopping up theprogress of certain evenings.
So it is instrumentally rational to use beer to refer to theseintervals.
Whereas the analogous use of grief would be instrumentally rational only in aworld in which the state was generally accepted as recurring with predictable regularity (andprobably, in a publicly observable way).
To comprehend the usage, then, we have toimagine a world in which our inner states were driven by natural cycles quite as the seasonsare.
The reason that poetic metaphors are such an important part of the poet's arsenal is notbecause they say what is false.
If they are in fact false-saying (and I would argue they arenot), they share this property with prosaic metaphors that have no particular hetoricaleffect.
Rather, they force us to presuppose what is false.
That is what Shelley had in mind, Icalculate, when he said (though the italics are mine) that poets are the "unacknowledgedlegislators of the world.
"It is this aspect of play-acting that gives poetic metaphors their affective import, andmakes them quite literally playful or dramatic, as the case may be.
In this way, poeticmetaphors have a great deal in common with ironic utterances and other tropes that involvea pretence (rather than an assertion) that the world is other than it is.
Note that it isimmaterial whether we actually work out these inferences on each occasion of hearing afamiliar or idiomatic poetic metaphor, so long as we recognize that the usage is in factmotivated by such inferences.If this much is granted, then most of the stories we tell about the aesthetics ofmetaphor are wrong, or at best misleading.
Their impact, when they have one, does notcome from their "literal falsity," from their "semantic deviance," from their "indirection,"or from the "compression of two ideas into one."
Criteria like these do not distinguishpoetic from prosaic metaphors.
More generally, there is nothing about metaphor quametaphor (or of conveyed-meaning of any sort qua conveyed meaning) that makes it aninteresting subject for aesthetic investigation.
More generally still, it is a mistake to supposethat we can derive rhetorical categories from purely conversational principles.201
