THE ROLE OF METAPHORS IN DESCRIPTIONS OF EMOTIONSAndrew Ortony and Lynn FainsilberUniversity of Illinois at Urbana-ChampaignWhy do we use metaphors?
For nearly 2000 years, the most generally accepted answer was that peopleonly use metaphors for rhetorical purposes.
Metaphorical language was thought o be merely ornamental -- theseasoning of language, exploited for effect by poets and politicians 1,as compared with the cold factual anguageof the scientist.
This view, however, is now no longer accepted (see, for example, Gentner, 1982; Boyd, 1979).It is now assumed, at least by psychologists and linguists, that metaphors, and their close cousins, analogies, areimportant tools of cognition and communication, providing us with unfamiliar ways of conceptualizing familiarthings, and familiar ways of conceptualizing unfamiliar things (Lakoff & Johnson, 1980; Ortony, 1979;Vosniadou & Ortony, in preparation).
Yet, what is still assumed, rather than demonstrated, is that nonliteraluses of language are sometimes necessary for accomplishing such goals, rather than merely convenient orelegant ways of doing so.
In this paper we present a sort of empirical existence proof that there are some thingswhose descriptions appear to invoke much more use of metaphorical language than others.
This, while notestablishing the necessity of metaphors, certainly is a first step.In theory, there are at least three communicative functions that metaphor might serve(Ortony 1975).First, they might allow one to express that which is difficult or impossible to express if one is restricted to literaluses of language.
Evidence for this "inexpressibility" claim would constitute ncouraging support for thenecessity-of-metaphors view.
A second possible function of metaphors i that they may constitute a particularlycompact means of communication.
Although conscious experience is continuous in form, the linguistic systemwe use to talk about it is comprised of discrete lements (lexical items).
Unlike more literal forms of language,metaphor may enable us to convey a great deal of information in a succinct manner by obviating the need toisolate the predicates to be expressed into their corresponding lexical representations.
Finally, metaphors mayhelp capture the vividness of phenomenal experience.
If metaphors convey chunks of information rather thandiscrete units, they can paint a richer and more detailed picture of our subjective xperience than might beexpressed by literal language.
This we call the "'vividness" claim.In this paper we shall concentrate on the first and last of these possible functions.
In order to do so, weneed to examine a discourse domain for which a prima facie case can be made for supposing that literallanguage will often be inadequate and which lends itself to variations in vividness.
There doubtless are manysuch domains.
The one that we selected was that of internal states, in particular, emotional states.
Theliterature on the linguistic expression of emotions uggests a relatively high incidence of figurative language use(e.g., Davitz, 1969), providing pragmatic reasons for believing that the context of (linguistic) emotionalexpression may be a profitable one within which to study metaphor production.
Emotional states eemed well-suited for our purposes because they tend to have an elusive, transient quality that is difficult to describe usingliteral language, although, of course, they can usually be labeled using literal language.
Thus, while it might beeasy for a person to label an emotional state as, for example, "fear," it is difficult to provide a literaldescription of the quality of some particular experience of fear.
Furthermore, because emotions vary inintensity, one might expect differential levels of vividness.There seem to be two possible ways in which people might try to communicate the quality of anemotional state.
First, a speaker might use literal language to describe the events that triggered the emotionalstate and hope that the hearer correctly infers how he or she felt.
For example, a person might describe thedetails of being mugged, hoping that a listener would recognize the emotional experience as the type one wouldhave if one were attacked by a mugger.
In such a case, the literal description would not describe the quality OflWinston Churchill once renmrked: "How infinite is the debt owed to metaphors by politicians who want to speak strongly but are notsure what they are going to say"!181the subjective state itself but would merely identify its eliciting conditions (Ortony, Clore & Collins, inpreparation).
Alternatively, a speaker might use a metaphor in an attempt o describe the quality of anemotional state.
For example, one might say that one felt as though one's insides were a butter churn.
Here,the metaphorical description does represent an attempt to characterize the quality of a subjective state.Although we think that emotions constitute a good domain for studying metaphor production, it does notfollow that the use of metaphorical description will be equally prevalent for different facets of emotions.Emotion theorists frequently attribute differential significance to the subjective xperience of emotion (DeRivera, 1977) or to their associated actions or action tendencies (Frijda, in press).
It may be that the subjectiveexperience of an emotion can benefit more from a metaphorical description than the associated action or actiontendency.
Consider the subjective xperience of some specific case of anger.
The quality of such a subjectivestate cannot be publicly observed.
In contrast, the actions to which an anger experience might give rise, forexample, pounding one's fist on the table, are publicly observable.
Thus, one might expect people to employmore metaphorical descriptions when trying to characterize the subjective xperiential quality of emotional statesthan when trying to characterize the overt behaviors associated with such states.
The intensity of emotions thatmight also be expected to influence the use of metaphorical language.
It is possible that relatively mildemotional states are sufficiently unremarkable that speakers are more willing to settle for simply labeling them,whereas the vividness of intense emotional states might sometimes generate a more pressing need for detaileddescription.To investigate some of these issues we ran a simple experiment in order to examine the production ofmetaphors during descriptions of emotional states and events.
We predicted that people would be more likely touse metaphors and metaphorical comparisons when describing how they felt when they were experiencing anemotion than when describing what they did when they experienced it.
We also thought it possible that moremetaphorical language would be used in descriptions of intense as compared to mild emotional states.
The twohypotheses combined could be construed as predicting an interaction of description type (feelings vs actions) andintensity, with the intensity factor having a greater effect on feeling descriptions than on action descriptions.Descriptions of feeling states, which may already make use of metaphorical language, may be especially likelyto use metaphors when the states are intense.
On the other hand, it could be argued that although intenseemotions are more vivid than less intense ones, the associated actions do not necessarily enjoy a correspondingincrease in vividness.
This is admittedly a tenuous argument, so the prediction of an interaction betweendescription type and intensity is made with less confidence than the predictions of main effects for thesevariables.
Finally, in the experiment to test these hypotheses, the valence of the emotions was manipulated todetermine whether this factor has any systematic effect on metaphor use.Subjects were asked to describe ither how they felt when they experienced certain emotions, or what theydid when they experienced them.
The emotions used included four positive ones (happiness, pride, gratitude,and relief) and four negative ones (sadness, fear, resentment, and shame).
Note that the particular hypotheses tobe tested do not depend in any important way on exactly which emotions are used.
In addition to providingdescriptions involving emotions of different valence, subjects were required to describe situations involvingeither very intense xperiences of them or very mild ones.Metaphors were identified in the transcripts of interview sessions.
Protocols were scored in terms of ideaunits (Johnson, 1970) because metaphors are generally better conceptualized as single ideas than as individualwords.
Metaphor production was then measured in terms of the proportion of all distinct idea units that weremetaphorical in nature.
In other words, the measure of metaphor production was the ratio of metaphor types tothe total number of idea unit types appearing in a protocol 2.
A variety of considerations led us to operationalizemetaphor production in this manner.
We were concerned that possible systematic differences in the amount ofverbal output produced during descriptions of the different emotion-inducing events might contaminate the~3ther indices were also used, such as the absolute number of metaphor types and the proportion of  the total number of idea units thatwere metaphorical.
The choice of measure made little difference to the pattern of results182measure of metaphor production, such that high verbal output might lead to a high production of metaphor, andlow verbal output might be associated with little metaphor use.
If so, metaphor production would be aconsequence of verbal output per se and this effect might conceal any differential use of metaphor duringdescriptions of feelings and actions.
By looking at the ratio of metaphor types to the sum of both metaphoricaland non-metaphorical idea units, the potential confounding of metaphor production and amount of linguisticoutput was partially avoided.
A second concern was that subjects' tendency to repeat words and phrases duringan oral account might artificially inflate the measurement if metaphorical tokens as opposed to types were used.The results showed that a significantly greater proportion of metaphors occurred in descriptions of feelingstates (17%) than in descriptions of actions (4%) 3 .
Furthermore, the mean percentage of metaphor types used indescriptions of intense emotions (12%) was significandy greater than in descriptions of mild ones (9%).
Twofactors (intensity and valence) interacted with the type of description (feelings versus actions).
First, there was asignificandy greater increase in metaphor production when describing the feelings associated with intenseemotions than when describing the actions associated with intense emotions.
Second, although of lesstheoretical interest, while in the description of actions there was a tendency for more metaphors to be producedfor negative than for positive emotions, this trend was reversed for descriptions of feelings.
The patterns ofthese interactions are shown in the Tables below which show the percentage of idea unit types that weremetaphor types.DescriptionTypeIntensityMild IntenseFeelings 14.7 19.6Actions 3.5 4.5ValenceDescription Positive NegativeTypeFeelings 18.7 15.6Actions 3.2 4.9The results also revealed that there were eight times as many frozen, or dead, metaphors as there werenovel ones.
More interesting, however, is the fact the the ratio of novel to frozen metaphors was greater forintense emotions (12%) than for mild ones (8%), suggesting perhaps that when people are experiencing intensefeeling states, they are more likely to generate striking and complex metaphors to explain how they feel.
To theextent hat novel metaphors are more metaphorical than frozen ones, and assuming that intense motional statesare more vivid than mild ones, this finding of more novel metaphors for intense emotions adds support o thevividness claim because it suggests a qualitative as well as quantitative increment in metaphor use.To summarize, we have offered evidence that metaphorical language may make it possible for people toconvey what would otherwise be difficult or impossible to express.
This seems to be the case with the qualityof unobservable internal states like emotions, as evidenced by our results showing the predominance ofmetaphorical language during descriptions of feeling states as opposed to actions, especially when those statesare intense.
So, for example, when one of our subjects reported that he felt like "a storm was brewing inside,"he succeeded in conveying a particular quality of his subjective xperience that is richer, more vivid, and morespecific than could have been conveyed had he merely labeled the experience as "resentment."
For the mostpart, the types of metaphors that people used to describe their emodons were figurative forms that have becomeconventionalized in the English language.
When novel metaphors were used, they seemed to be particularlyevident in descriptions of intense feeling states.
Taken together, our results suggest hat the inclination ofpsychologists and linguists to reject the classical Aristotelian view of metaphor as merely linguistic decoration,in favor of a view that accords it an indispensable communicative function is empirically, as well astheoretically, supportable.3i.e., the percentage of metaphor types averaged across emotions and subjects.183ReferencesBoyd, R. (1979).
Metaphor and theory change: What is "metaphor" a metaphor for?
In A. Ortony (Ed.
)Metaphor and thought.
New York: Cambridge University Press.Davitz, J. R. (1969).
The language of emotion.
New York, N.Y.: Academic Press.De Rivera, J.
(1977).
A structural theory of the emotions.
New York: International Universities Press.Frijda, N. (in press).
The emotions.
New York: Cambridge University Press.Gentner, D. (1982) Are scientific analogies metaphors?
In D. Miall (Ed.
), Metaphor: Problems andperspectives.
Brighton, England: Harvester press.Johnson, R.E.
(1970).
Recall of prose as a function of the structural importance of the linguistic unit.
Journal ofVerbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 29, 12-20.Lakoff, G. & Johnson, M. (1980).
Metaphors we live by.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.Ortony, A.
(1975).
Why metaphors are necessary and not just nice.
Educational Theory, 25, 45-53.Ortony, A.
(Ed.).
(1979).
Metaphor and thought.
New York: Cambridge University Press.Ortony, A., Clore, G. L. & Collins, A.
(in preparation).
Principia pathematica: Some cognitive foundations ofthe emotions.S.
Vosniadou & A. Ortony (Eds.).
(in preparation).
Similarity and analogical reasoning.
New York:Cambridge University Press.184
