A Framework for a Theory of MeaningRobert WilenskyDivision of Computer ScienceDepartment of EECSUniversity of California, BerkeleyThe notion of meaning is central to theories of language.
However, there appears to be considerable confu-sion regarding what a theory of meaning should do, and how it pertains to other linguistic issues.
In thispaper, I attempt to rectify one aspect of this confusion, namely, the relation of literal meaning, sentencemeaning, and speaker meaning.
To do so, I present two polar opposites, a standard orthodoxy and a radicalchallenge.
I then attempt to show that, as in most cases, the truth is not in between, but rather, requires acompletely different framework.The Right-Wing OrthodoxyFirst, there is a widely held orthodoxy, which I refer to as the "right wing" position on meaning.
The rightwing meaning dogma includes the following assumptions:(1) There is a meaning that can be associated with a given sentence independent of context, usage, orspeaker.
This is known as the sentence meaning.
Of course, a given sentence may have several suchmeanings, in which case it is ambiguous, or none, in which case it is anomalous.
(a) Sentence meaning is compositional.
That is, it may be determined from word meanings together withgeneral rules of grammatical construction.
(b) The sentence meaning is the same as the literal meaning of a sentence.
While there may be many dif-ferent interpretations that we can assign to a sentence, these do not belong to the sentence per se.
Rather,they require recourse to the context, to the speaker's intentions, to extra-grammatical knowledge, and soon.
Only the literal/sentence meaning is strictly a function of the sentence alone.
(c) The sentence meaning (of a sentence in the indicative) establishes a set of truth conditions for that sen-tence.
Most truth-theoretical accounts equate these truth conditions with the meaning of the sentence.
(d) The sentence meaning is completely independent of context.
While the truth of a sentence's meaningmay vary with context, and other interpretations may become available in different contexts, the sentencemeaning remains constant over all such variation.
Thus, while the truth of the sentence "Today is Tues-day" is a function of when it is uttered, and that of "My name is Peter Smith" a function of who does theuttering, the literal meaning, i. e., the set of conditions that determines whether the sentences are true, is forboth sentences invariant under such changes.In practice, a stronger form of independence is presumed.
This is that sentence meaning is that interpreta-tion of a sentence that can be made in the "zero" or "null" context.
I call this ultra-right wing assumptionthe strong literal meaning position, as it commits one to equating a literal meaning with a particularinterpretation f an utterance.
(2) The other possible interpretations we may wish to assign to a sentence are distinct from the sentencemeaning itself, and are usually classified as part of the speaker's meaning.
These interpretations may differradically from the sentence meaning.
For example, in the case of sarcasm, the speaker's meaning might bethe opposite of the sentence meaning.
The speaker might mean something quite apart from the sentencemeaning if he is intending the sentence to be interpreted i iomatically, or if he is using any one of a reper-toire of linguistic devices, such as metaphor, metonymy or synecdoche.
The speaker may mean somethingrelated to but different from sentence meaning if the sentence is an instance of exaggeration r meiosis.
In99most cases, even if the sentence is meant o be interpreted "literally" the speaker means something inaddition to the sentence meaning, by way of conversational implication, conventional implication, the useof indirect speech acts, and the like.
(a) To say that the speaker's meaning of a sentence is different from the sentence's meaning does not denythat such meanings are determined by cultural or linguistic onventions.
For example, an idiomatic expres-sion like "kick the bucket" requires a linguistic onvention for it to have its intended effect, while findingthe speaker's intention underlying an indirect speech act like "Do you know what time it is?"
maypresume a cultural one.
The various interpretations of the speaker's meaning may have conventionalunderpinnings, but these are apart from those that assign meanings to sentences of the language.00) In some cases, the speaker intends to communicate exactly and only the sentence meaning of a givenutterance.
In such cases, the speaker might be described as saying exactly what he means.Note that this is a special case of the strong literal meaning position, in which (i) one interpretation f thesentence is its literal meaning, and (ii) the speaker wishes to communicate exactly this content.
(c) Literal meanings form the basis for determining the speaker meaning of a sentence.
According to someaccounts, a hearer trying to interpret a sentence first attempts to determine that sentence's literal meaning;then this meaning is judged to be deficient in some way, and another (speaker) meaning is determined in itsplace.
Thus, a speaker hearing the sentence "My car guzzles gasoline" finds this sentence meaninganomalous, and then determines that the speaker must have desired that the sentence be interpreted meta-phorically.
Similarly, a hearer trying to interpret the sentence "That was a brilliant idea" in a context inwhich he had done an obviously stupid thing first determines the literal or sentence meaning of this utter-ance.
This is then judged as inappropriate under the circumstances, so the hearer eventually infers that asarcastic interpretation is warranted.It is important to emphasize that, according to the orthodox position, all the various interpretations we maywish to associate with a sentence other than its literal meaning are something other than the sentence mean-ing itself.
Rather, they are attributable to the use of that sentence by a given speaker in a given situation.Thus, the sentence meaning of "That was a brilliant idea" is always the literal interpretation f that sen-tence, namely, that some particular idea was clever.
It makes no difference if this interpretation is clearlyruled out by the situation, and could not possibly have been what the speaker intended.The Left-Wing ChallengeThis right wing orthodoxy has been subject o radical challenges from the intellectual "far left".
Wemight term such challenges contextualist theories, as their advocates believe that it is not possible to talkabout meanings of sentences apart from the particular meanings that such sentences take on in particularcontexts.
Thus the notion of a sentence meaning is rejected outright by contextualists.Contextualist positions arise in a number of quarters.
For example, consider the attempts to defend Aus-tinian "use theories" of meaning, that is, theories which attempt to explain the meanings of sentences interms of the uses of sentences.
One notable attempt is that of Searle (1979).
Searle's begins by consider-ing sentences which are commonly believed to have clear literal meanings, uch as(1) The cat is on the mat.Searle then argues that it is not possible to assign this sentence a literal meaning independent of context,because there are a number of (admittedly bizarre) contexts in which the literal meaning does not seem todetermine the sentence's truth conditions.
For example, Searle considers the case in which the cat is,unbeknownst to its owner, drugged into stiffness and balanced on the edge of a mat which is itself firm, andat an angle to the ground.
In this case, if I respond to the owner's question about he location of the mat byi00saying (1), Searle claims that this utterance "should probably be described as an ingenious lie".
However,suppose the same sentence is used in a situation in which both the speaker and hearer are aware of theunusual orientation of the mat, and in which nearby there are other objects the cat might be on.
In this con-text, uttering (1) seems appropriate.
Searle suggests that this example casts doubt on the thesis that thereexists a context-independent literal meaning that determines the truth conditions of that utterance in everycontext.In a similar vein, Searle (1980) argues that the semantic ontent of 'cut' makes different contributions tosentences like the following:(2) Cut the grass(3) Cut the cakeSearle claims that 'cut' makes a different contribution i  each case because, if it turned out that I ran thecake over with a lawn mower, say, I would not have complied with the speaker's intention.In Searle's analysis, we must abandon an important tenet of the orthodox position, namely, that the literalmeaning of a sentence determines the truth conditions of that sentence.The Right-Wing DefenseKatz (1981) disposes of this sort of objection as follows.
He points out that Searle confuses entencemeaning with sentence use in making his claims.
That is, uttering (1) in the first situation may indeeddeceive the cat's owner.
But deception involves a theory of sentence use, not merely one of sentencemeaning.
Similarly, we may be conveying precisely what is understood by uttering (1) in the latter situa-tion, but this too is a matter of sentence use.
The fact that the (presumably identical) sentence meaning cancontribute to deception in one circumstance and convey one's intentions accurately in another should notbother advocates of the orthodox position any more than the fact that the same utterance might be takenliterally in one context and ironically in another.
In both cases, the sentence meaning is same.
But its con-tribution to the communicated meaning is completely different.Katz raises the same objection to Searle's claim that the semantic ontent of 'cut' makes different contribu-tions to sentences (2) and (3).
Agreeing with Searle that a listener who ran over the cake with a lawnmower would not have complied with the speaker's intention, Katz observes that the speaker's intentionsare not the issue.
The issue is the sentence meaning, and there is no reason that sentence meaning aloneshould have to determine compliance, tc., with a speech act.In sum, according to Katz, the orthodox position does not assume that the literal meaning of a sentencedetermines the conditions of satisfaction of the use of that sentence as an utterance.
It merely contributesto such conditions, perhaps in an involved and open-ended way.
However, these complexities are com-plexities of sentence use, not of sentence meaning.
Therefore, sentences such as (1), (2) and (3) are nottroublesome.
Rather, their literal meaning participates in the determination of the meaning they wouldconvey in an actual situation.
Given this larger view, there is no reason that we should, as Searle suggests,give up on the idea that literal meaning determines the truth conditions of a sentence; Searle has merelyshown that the meaning of a sentence is only one of the factors entering into the meaning of an utterance.But the latter involves a theory of sentence use, not of sentences per se, so the orthodox position is quitesafe.Katz's counters to Searle's objections ,as stated seem correct.
In particular, most of the force of Searle'sargument is that utterance meaning typically departs from sentence meaning, and it is utterance meaningthat determines whether a request is satisfied or an order obeyed, etc.
Since the actual contribution of sen-tence meaning to utterance meaning is left unspecified by the orthodox position, the objection cannot harmit.i01The New Prob lemHowever, in making his point, Katz's opens the door for an even more serious objection.
This is as fol-lows: To accept Katz's position, we must allow that sentences like (1-3) have a meaning that is differentfrom that we would assign the uses of these sentences in the null context.
Consider the case of "The cat ison the mat".
Now, the preposition "on"  can be used to express quite a few different physical situations.If there is a central meaning to "on"  that encompasses all of these, it would seems to mean somethingcloser to "supported by"  than "physically above and in contact with", as both Searle and Katz seem topresume.
That is, in addition to meaning "lying on" and "balancing on", we use "on"  literally to mean"hanging from" (as in "the fixture on the ceiling") and "vertically supporting" (as in "the notice on thebulletin board").
While the dictionary definition of "on"  would appear to be neutral with respect o agreat number of physical relationships, it appears as if "on"  can only be used to mean one of these morespecific relations.
That is, when we say "The cat is on the mat", it is hard to imagine that an utterance ofthis sentence could ever remain neutral with respect o whether the cat is lying on the mat, attached to themat a la the bulletin board, or suspended from the ceiling in the manner of the light fixture.An important tenet of the right wing orthodoxy has been undermined.
This is the "strong literal meaning"position, in which the sentence meaning can, in some limiting case, serve as utterance meaning.
Accordingto our argument, sentences like "The cat is on the mat" have a perfectly well defined "sentence meaning"- it's just that one can never mean it.Thus it seems that "sentence meaning" is not really a meaning after all.
That is, that object hat one cancompute using the grammar and lexicon may very well never be in itself a suitable candidate for the mean-ing of an utterance.
This object may be related to actual meanings in important ways; but that should notconfer meaninghood upon it.
Indeed, one of the basic and erroneous tenets of the right wing positionseems to be predicated on this terminology alone: While there may indeed be a semantic object comput-able from the grammar and lexicon without recourse to context, the interpretation f this sentence when noexternal context is supplied is likely to depart from this object.
Our knowledge of the world suggests to usthat "Cut the cake" refers to slicing, even if no further context is supplied.
So the interpretation f a utter-ance in the null context may be different from its sentence meaning.Moreover, it seems that the term "literal meaning" is inappropriate hroughout all these discussions.
Itseems that the term "literal" is useful only for talking about interpretations.
Thus, it doesn't make anysense to talk about literal meaning of a sentence ven an unambiguous one.
The cat being balanced on theedge of a mat is a literal intepretation of the sentence "The cat is on the mat", and the cat lying on the matis a literal interpretation of "The cat is on the mat".
But neither can be distinguished as a privilegedliteral meaning of a sentence.In sum, there may be an object hat can be computed from the grammar and the lexicon.
However, such anobject may not in itself be a suitable candidate for a meaning.
Moreover, the "literal meaning" of a sen-tence is something other than the sentence meaning, in that it seems to include interpretations of the sen-tence based on default knowledge, even if no additional context is supplied.
So "sentence meaning" maynot be a meaning at all, and "literal meaning" is something radically different from sentence meaning.Once literal meaning is divorced from sentence, then there appears to be no motivation for brutally distin-guishing "core" grammatical considerations from less generative linguistic onventions.
That is, we caninclude all linguistic onstructions in the domain of grammatical knowledge when talking about computingsomething from a grammar and lexicon.
In this mode, sentences such as(6) John kicked the bucket.are grammatically ambiguous, rather than having grammatical sentence meaning and an extragrammaticalspeaker meaning.
Thus, we can associate the idiomatic interpretation with the sentence itself, rather thanuncomfortably fitting this fact into the domain of speaker meaning.102The New PictureThese challenges to the orthodox right wing position seem to dictate the following new picture: There is asemantic object we can assign to a sentence independent of context, based on a grammar and lexicon; how-ever our notion of grammar is broad enough to include non-core constructions.
While this object is asemantic object may not in itself be a suitable candidate for a meaning.This framework requires a new terminology.
We will call the semantic object assignable to a sentence thesentence's primal content.
This object generally will be interpretated to become a meaning, with its con-tent restricted by world knowledge, etc.
This conveyed meaning is called the actual content of the utter-ance.For example, in the case of "The cat is on the mat", the primal content will be the rather abstract proposi-tion that the cat is somehow supported by the mat.
The actual content, based on pragmatic knowledge ofcats, mats, etc., is some "lying upon" relation.
Similarly, the primal content of "Cut the grass" and "Cutthe cake" are identical insofar as the prescribed action is concerned, while the actual content of the firstwould most likely refer to mowing, and of the latter, to slicing.
We have referred to this particular infer-ence type, namely, that of inferring a more precise interpretation from a vaguer semantic ontent, as con-cretion (Wilensky 1983, Norvig 1986).Furthermore, since non-productive constructions are included in the grammar, the primal content of somesentence can include that which is beyond sentence meaning in the orthodox dogma.
For example, the pri-mal content of "John kicked the bucket" could refer to dying as well as kicking.
In addition, analyses thatmake recourse to conventionalized metaphor (e. g., Jacobs 1985, Lakoff and Johnson 1980) fit in nicelywithin this framework.
Thus a sentence like(7) John gave Mary a kiss.would be said to have a primal content that involves transferring, and an actual content that involves kiss-ing.
The process of using conventionalized metaphorical knowledge (called views in Wilensky (1986)) tointerpret a primal content is called unviewing.In sum, there are a number of dichotomies in the orthodox position that are worth preserving.
The problemis that they have been bundled together erroneously.
I offer the primal/actual content distinction as a morehelpful framework to talk about he meaning of sentences and utterances.References(1) Jacobs, P. S. A knowledge-based approach to language production.
Report no.
UCB/CSD 86/254.Computer Science Division (EECS), UC Berkeley.
August, 1985.
(2) Katz, J. Literal meaning and logical theory.
Journal of Philosophy, 78 pp.
203-234.
1981.
(3) Lakoff, G. and Johnson, M. Metaphors We Live By.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago, Ill.
1980.
(4) Searle, J. Literal meaning.
In J. Searle (ed.).
Expression and Meaning.
Cambridge, England, Cam-bridge University Press.
1979.
(5) Searle, J.
The background of meaning.
In J. Searle, F. Keifer, & M. Bierwisch (eds.
), Speech ActTheory and Pragmatics.
Boston, Mass., D. Reidel.
1980.103(6) Wilensky, Robert.
Planning and Understanding: A Computational Approach to Human Reasoning.Addison-Wesley, Reading, Mass.
1983.
(7) Wilensky, Robert.
Some Problems and Proposals for Knowledge Representation.
Berkeley Com-puter Science Technical Report UCB/CSD 86/294, May 1986.104
