Limits on the human sentence generatorAnthony S. KrochUniversity of PennsylvaniaThe problem of language generation is the problem of translating communicative intent into linguistic form.As such, it implicates the entire richness and complexity of human cognition because, to a close approximation,whatever a person can conceive, (s)he can express in language.
Computational approaches togeneration have,therefore, tightly concentrated onworking out, in conjunction with the linguistic disciplines of discourse analysisand pragmatics, the regularities linking communicative intent o linguistic form.
In this paper, however, we willaddress adifferent problem; namely, the limits on the capacity of the human language generation mechanism totranslate preverbal messages into sentences ofnatural language.
Often functional studies of human communicativecompetence give the impression that people are infinitely subtle and flexible in their ability to use form to signalmeaning and intent.
But so long as we assume that human behavior is ultimately reduceable to the output of amachine, however complex, it must be the case that there are limits to the competence we are trying to model.
Ifwe can find these limits and characterize them theoretically, we will make a contribution to the study of humancognition and will help to circumscribe the problem of language generation by computer.
While it is certainly tooearly in the development of linguistic science to expect ageneral characterization f the limits on human sentencegeneration, we hope to show in the brief discussion to follow that some evidence as to their nature is available andthat it is reasonable tohope for progress from future empirical work.1.
Degrees of difficulty in language processing.From the perspective of those of us who would like to develop acomputational theory of human language,one of the most puzzling features of people's linguistic behavior is that not all linguistic forms are equally easy forthem to process.
Moreover, these variations in difficulty cannot be translated into simple differences in the lengthof time it takes to process different forms, for speakers regularly make errors sensitive to difficulty in processingutterances, both in production and perception.
The occurrence of such errors must follow in some way from thefiniteness of the computational resources of human beings and from the time constraints under which processingoccurs; and accounting for the distribution of such errors poses an obvious challenge to the theory of language use.Of course, some errors, like certain garden path effects in sentence parsing, occur every time the relevant linguistic213environment occurs; and one can quite easily structure a processing algorithm so that it deterministically producessuch failures.
Indeed, the work on deterministic parsing (Marcus 1980) has shown that one can use the patterning ofthese rrors to choose among competing theories of processing.
Other mistakes, however, do not occur every time agiven environment appears; but there are stochastic regularities in their distribution.
These errors may pose thebiggest challenge to computational linguistics and may provide the biggest opportunity for deepening ourunderstanding of the mechanisms underlying sentence processing by human beings.One example of the sort of error that occurs with measurable frequency in the production of spontaneousutterances in English is the use of resumptive pronouns in relative clauses.
Consider, for instance, the followingexamples which we collected in the course of a recent study of the syntax of relative clauses used in speech (Kroch1980):(1) a.
?
?I was praying for a lady that she lived near my sister.b.
?
?let's get the Babar book, the one that B's gonna read it.c.
?
?Frank had an operation on Friday which we just found out about it.d.
?
?You could have a lock on your door that you give your undergraduates a key to it.e.
?
?I have the ones that she felt she couldn't do anything with ~hem.In each of these cases the relative clause sounds odd because apronoun appears in a position where English requires agap or 'empty category'.
Of course, there are certain environments, like those in (2) below, in which resumptivepronouns are more acceptable because the grammar of English does not permit a gap in the position of the pronoun:(2) a.
People are coming out with symptoms that the doctors don't know what ~hey are.b.
YU bring a bottle of that stuff that you and I are the only ones that like it.Whether these latter cases hould be allowed by the grammar or classed as ungrammatical with the examples in (1) isnot clear; in any event our concern is with the clearly unacceptable cases, which, somewhat surprisingly, occur withmeasurable frequency in speech.
We found in our study that about 1% of relative clauses in spontaneous naturaldiscourse contained resumptive pronouns.
Why these pronouns hould occur is, of course, hard to determine; but itis possible to construct a plausible mechanism for generating them that is worthy of further investigation.
Thus,consider asentence generating algorithm (e.g., that in MacDonald 1980) under which relative clause gaps are createdby zeroing a message element under identity with the head of the relative clause being produced (Kroch 1981).
Ifthat zeroing is subject o random failure, then the identical element will occasionally appear in the output string.
Itwill usually be a pronoun, because the mechanism responsible for pronominalization will recognize the repeated214message element as a second reference to the discourse ntity that the head of the relative clause points to.
Ofcourse, since pronominaiization is not obligatory, we might expect o find cases in which the resumptive element isa full NP rather than a pronoun; and such examples, in fact, also occur.
The relative clause in (3) below is one suchcase:(3) ?
?In the middle of the country is a high density area that most of the people come from that area.It is interesting to note that under a production algorithm that employs zeroing of an identical element ratherthan movement of the relativized NP to the beginning of the clause, there is no need to fully plan the syntax of arelative clause before beginning to send a partially formulated clause to the output device that turns the syntacticstructure into speech.
In particular, the syntactic position of the element to be zeroed need not be calculated becausethe element will be zeroed as it is encountered.
If the conditions for zeroing of the identical element are not met,generation can simply proceed; and a resumptive pronoun or NP will appear.
Just this seems to happen in naturalspoken English in cases where leaving a gap would violate the conditions on empty categories.
If we say thatzeroing of the identical element isexplicitly blocked in these cases, then essentially the same mechanism thatexplains the sporadic occurrence of clauses like those in (1) above will account for why spoken English commonlyexhibits clauses like those in (2).
In this respect, English appears to differ from languages like German or theSlavic languages, which must have a somewhat different algorithm for producing relative clauses.
Because Germanand Slavic relative pronouns are marked for case, the speakers of those languages cannot begin to send a relativeclause to the output device until the syntactic position of the gap is fixed since it is this syntactic position whichdetermines the case of the relative pronoun.
Under these circumstances, it should be much easier for speakers toavoid producing relative clauses with gaps in the wrong position in these languages than in English; and henceresumptive pronouns hould be less common in speech in these languages.
While no fh-m evidence on the frequencyof resumptive pronouns in German or similar languages i available, experienced observers seem to agree that thesorts of resumptive pronouns that are heard in English do not occur with any noticeable regularity in these otherlanguages.
In contrast, western European languages that share with English the property of having minimal casemarking on their relativizers (e.~.. the Romance lanuages and the Scandinavian languages) do exhibit use ofresumptive pronouns in speech.215If the random occurrence of resumptive pronouns in spoken English relatives is due to the structure of theproduction algorithm and to a characteristic way in which it can fail, then it should be of interest to find out underwhat conditions failure is more or less likely to occur.
Information on this point can be obtained by statisticalcomparison of randomly sampled corpora of relative clauses with and without resumptive pronouns.
When wecarried out such a study on a corpus of 500 relative clauses containing resumptive pronouns collected from naturallyoccurring discourse and 5000 clauses without resumptive pronouns collected from tape recorded sociolinguisticinterviews, we found that one of the most significant factors influencing the likelihood of appearance ofaresumptive pronoun was the degree of embedding of the gap position.
Thus, if the gap position was in asubordinate clause within the relative clause (as in (le) above) it was more likely to be filled with a resumptivepronoun than if it was in the highest clause of the relative (as in (la)-(ld)).
Even more strikingly, in simplesentence r lative clauses, the likelihood of occurrence of a resumptive pronoun increased with each increase in thenumber of phrasal nodes on the path between the head of the clause and the gap position.
In other words, subjectposition resumptive pronouns like (la) were less likely than direct object resumptive pronouns like (lb), and thesewere less likely than resumptive pronoun objects of verb phrase prepositions (as in (lc)).
The most likely positionfor the occurrence of resumptive pronoun was the position of complement toa direct object NP (as in (ld)), thisbeing the position with the longest path between the gap position and the antecedent.
The following table givesprobability weights for each of degree of embedding calculated for the sample we analyzed using the VARBRUL 2Sprogram for multivariate logit analysis (Rousseau and Sankoff 1978):Clausal embedding of gap position:in highest clause of relativein infinitival complementin tensed complementLiketihood of occurrence ofresumptive pronoun.18.62.73Gap position within the clause:subject .30direct object .50object of verb phrase PP .68complement toobject noun .93Table 1: Effect of degree of embedding of gap position on likelihood of occurrence of a resumptivepronoun.
(Weights lie between 0.0 and 1.0, with higher weights indicating increased likelihood ofoccurrence of a resurnptive pronoun.
)216The challenge posed by these results, which from a statistical point of view are quite robust, is to construct a modelof the sentence generation process in which stochastic effects of complexity have a natural place.2.
Limits to planning.One of the limits on language processing that follows from the time and resource constraints under which itoperates i that he planning of sentences ingeneration cannot take account of every conceivably relevant fact aboutthe discourse situation.
At some point decisions must be made which cut short he planning process.
If this werenot so, we would expect, among other things, the forms of sentences used in discourse to be determined byarbitrarily complex predicates on prior discourse context, which certainly seems not to be true.
Saying that theremust be limits to planning, however, is a great deal easier than showing what these limits are because of the greatexpressiveness and flexibililty of human discourse competence.
Nevertheless, it is possible to find evidence thatcertain mechanical effects - that is, effects not related to meaning or appropriateness - influence syntactic choices byspeakers.
For instance, in an interesting statistical study of the use of the agentless passive in spontaneousdiscourse, Weiner and Labov (1983) found that an important factor influencing speaker's choices between activesentences with generalized subjects like (4) and agentless passives like (5) was whether they had used a passivesentence in the preceding 5 clauses:(4) They broke into the liquor cabinet.
(5) The liquor cabinet got broken into.Weiner and Labov suggested that his result was a 'mechanical' syntactic effect which showed the limits ofconsiderations of discourse function in determining syntactic usage in spontaneous speech.
However, while theseresults and interpretation were intriguing, itwas clear to students of discourse function that alternative explanationsof the so-called mechanical effect, which might be considered a 'priming' effect in syntax akin to the well-knownlexical priming effect, were possible.
In particular, itwas possible that the effect was an artifact of discoursefunctional effects not properly controlled for in the study.
In order to test the validity of the Weiner and Labovfinding, Dominique Estival and I planned astudy in which the relevant discourse ffects due to topicality of logicalsubject and object, repetition, aspect, and other factors were explicitly controlled for.
We also decided to test whetherthe priming effect, if it did exist, was sensitive to the difference between verbal and adjectival passives ince the twoforms of passive, illustrated below in (6) and (7), had been argued convincingly not to be the same syntactic217construction (Wasow 1977):(6) John was fired by his boss.
(7) John was interested in music.The results of a statistical study of a corpus of more than 600 passive sentences and a roughly equal sized randomsubsample of active sentences ( ee Estival 1982, 1985) showed that the priming effect was orthogonal to thediscourse function effects controlled for and that it cleanly differentiated verbal from adjectival passives.
Note thatthe probabilistic weights in table 2 below are highest along the main diagonal, which shows that verbal passives arepriming verbal passives and adjectival passives are priming adjectival passives, but that verbal and adjectivalpassives are not priming one another.Likelihood ofActive Verbal passive adjectival passiveClause type found inpreceding 5clauses:active only .44 .26 .30verbal passive .22 .56 .22adjectival passive .32 .21 .47Table 2: Effect of the occurrence of preceding verbal and adjectival passives on the likelihoodo f  a passive.From these results we concluded that the mere fact that a speaker uses a construction seems to increase the likelihoodthat (s)he will use it again and hence that the use of syntactic onstructions is conditioned, not just by discourseappropriateness but also by their 'accessibility' orqevel of psychological ctivation' for the sentence productionmechanism (see Bock 1982 for further discussion).
The fact that he priming effect differentiates verbal fromadjectival passives uggests, moreover, that the identity criteria for priming reflect quite abstract linguisticproperties.Another ecent study of ours which points out both the flexibility of human sentence planning and the limitson that flexibility is a quantitative study of 700 transitive particle verbs.
We investigated the factors whichinfluenced the position of the direct object in these sentences, which, as the examples in (8) and (9) below illustrate,may be either before or after the particle:(8) The boy put the dog down.
(9) The boy called up his friend.218Two of the factors which heavily influenced the relative order of direct object and particle, already known to us froma previous tudy (Kroch and Small 1978), were the length of the direct object NP and the semantic contribution ofthe particle to the sentence meaning.
The first effect was that longer object NP's were more likely to appear after theparticle than shorter ones.
The semantic effect was that particles which made an independent contribution to themeaning of the sentence, as, for example, in (8) above, were more likely to occur in post-object position (whereequivalent prepositional phrases occur) than purely idiomatic particles like the one in (9).
These effects were exactlyas expected, given the results of our previous tudy.
We were curious to know, however, whether the two effectswere independent of one another; in particular, we wanted to know what happened incases where the length effectand the semantic effect cut against one another, the relevant case being that of sentences with long direct objects andnon-idiomatic particles.
The following table shows gives the cross-tabulation f these two factors:Semantic type of particleLength of direct object NP1-2 words 3-4 words 5 or moreIdiomatic:particle before object NP 114 45 45total cases 240 62 47percent particle before NP 48 73 96Compositional:particle before object NP 79 18 9total cases 263 65 13percent particle before NP 30 28 69Table 3: Crosstabulation f particle type by direct object length, showing effects on orderof particle and NP and on number of cases of each type.It is obvious from inspection that he ceU which crosses non-idiomatic particles with direct objects five or morewords long is much smaller than expected.
The fast and second columns are roughly the same size in each row; butin the third column, which represents he figures for long NP's, the cell with the figures for idiomatic particles isthree times as large as the cell representing the non-idiomatic ones.
It appears, therefore, that speakers are avoidingthe use of the verb-particle construction i the case where the conditioning factors favor opposite orderings ofparticle and object NP.
Of more interest for our present discussion, however, is that those sentences which do occurin this ceU show exactly the intermediate frequency of object last order that we would expect if the two effects wereindependent of one another.
This result is consistent with a model of the production of these sentences in which thedecision on how to order the particle and direct object was unaffected by the decision as to whether to use the verb-particle construction atall.
It is as though the production mechanism were organized into a simple decision tree in219which the decision as to whether to use a particle verb is made first, apparently on the basis of information about hesemantic relationship between verb and particle and about he qaeaviness' (perhaps the amount of descriptive content)of the object NP, and then the particle object ordering decision is made independently.
To the extent hat such asimple organization of decisions for sentence production, without complex interactions among levels, can bejustified by further work, it will be possible to construct a more constrained model of the generation process; and wewill have a better idea of the structural characteristics ofthe system within which discourse functional considerationshave their effects.ReferencesBock, J. K. (1982) "Toward a Cognitive Psychology of Syntax: Information Processing Contributions to SentenceFormulation."
Psychological Review 89:1-47.Estival, D. (1982) "Analyzing the Passive: How Many Types are There?"
in Penn Review of Lineuistics.
no.
7.Estival, D. (1985) "Syntactic Priming of the Passive."
in T. Giv6n, ed.
Quantified Studies in Discourse, specialissue of Text.
5:7-24.Kroch, A.
(1980) "Resumptive Pronouns in English Relative Clauses."
paper presented a~ Linguistic Society ofAmerica annual meeting.Kroch, A.
(1981) "On the Role of Resumptive Pronouns in Amnestying Island Constraint Violations."
in TheProceedings of the 17th Annual Meetin~ of the Chica~o Linguistics Society.Kroch, A. and C. Small (1978) "Grammatical Ideology and its Effect on Speech."
in D. Sankoff, ed.
LinguisticViu'i~on; Models and Methods.
New York: Academic Press.MacDonald, D. (1980) Natural Lan~,uage Production as a Process of Decision-Making under Constraint.
MITDissertation.Marcus, M. (1980) A Theory of Syntactic Recognition for Natural Languaee.
Cambridge: MIT Press.Rousseau, P. andD.
Sankoff.
(1978) "Advances in Variable Rule Methodology."
in D. Sankoff, ed.
LinguisticVariation: Models and Methods.
New York: Academic Press.Wasow, T. (1977) "Transformations and the Lexicon."
in P. Culicover, T. Wasow, and A. Akmajian, eds.
FormalSyntax.
New York: Academic Press.Weiner, E. J. and W. Labov (1983) "Constraints on the Agentless Passive."
Journal of Linguistics.
19: 29-58.220
