World Knowledge and Word MeaningJer ry  R. HobbsArtificial Intell igence CenterSRI Internat ionalWe use words to talk about the world.
Therefore, to understand whatwords mean, we must have a prior explication of how we view the world.
Ina sense, efforts in the past to decompose words into semantic primitives wereattempts to link word meaning to a theory of the world, where the set ofsemantic primitives constituted the theory of the world.
With the advent ofnaive physics and research programs to formalize commonsense knowledgein a number of areas in predicate calculus or some other formal anguage, wenow have at our disposal means for building much richer theories of varlousaspects of the world, and consequently, we are in a much better position toaddress the problems of le~cal semantics.In the TACITUS project for using commonsense.knowledge in the un-derstanding of texts about mechanical devices and their failures, we havebeen developing various commonsense theories that are needed to mediatebetween the way we talk about the behavior of such devices and causalmodels of their operation (Hobbs et M., 1986).
The theories cover a numberof areas that figure in virtually every domain of discourse, such as scalarnotions, granularity, structured systems, time, space, material, physical ob-jects, causality, functionality, force, and shape.
Our approach as been toconstruct core theor ies  of each of these areas.
These core theories may useEnglish words as their predicates, but the principal criterion for adequacyof the core theory is elegance, whatever that is, and this can usually beachieved better using predicates that are not lexically realized.
It is easierto achieve legance if one does not have to be held responsible to linguisticevidence.
Predicates that are lexically realized are then pushed to the pe-riphery of the theory.
A large number of lexical items can be defined, or atleast characterized, in terms provided by the core theories.
The hypothesisis that once these core theories have been formulated in the right way, itwill be straightforward to explicate the meanings of a great many words.The phrase "in the right way" is key in this strategy.
The world is20complex and can be viewed from many different perspectives.
Some of thesewill lend themselves well to the investigation of problems of word meaning,whereas others will only lead us into difficulties.
We could, for example,axiomatize space as Euclidean 3-space~ with x, y, and z-coordinates for everypoint.
We could then attempt o define what the various prepositions andverbs of motion mean in this framework.
I am quite sure such an attemptwould fail.
Such a theory of space would be too foreign to the way we talkabout space in everyday life.
Even if we were to succeed in this limited task,we would not have advanced at all toward an understanding of metaphoricaluses of these words.In contrast, we view our core theories not so much as theories aboutparticular aspects of the world, but rather as abstract frameworks that haveproven useful in interpreting, generally, a number of different kinds of phe-nomena.
Thus, at the very center of our knowledge base is an axiomatiza-tion of "systems", where a system is a set of elements and a set of relationsamong them.
An abstract, "primitive" relation at places entities at loca-tions within a system, encoding the basic figure-ground relation.
A largenumber of things in the world can be understood as systems, and a largenumber of relations can be understood as at relations.
When we apply thetheory to a particular phenomenon, we buy into a way "of thinking aboutthe phenomenon, and, more to the present purposes, of talking about it.
Itis in this way that the metaphorical usages that pervade natural languagediscourse are accommodated.
Once we characterize some piece of the worldas a system, and some relation as an at relation, we have acquired the wholelocationai way of talking about it.
Once this is enriched with a theory oftime and change, we can import the whole vocabulary of motion.
For exam-ple, in computer science, a data structure can be viewed as a'system, andwe can stipulate that if a pointer points to a node in a data structure, thenthe pointer is at that node.
We have then acquired a spatial metaphor, andwe can subsequently talk about, for example, the pointer moving around thedata structure.
Space, of course, is itself a system and can be talked aboutusing a locational vocabulary.Also central in the knowledge base is an axiomatization of "scales", whichis a particular kind of system whose relations are a partial ordering and anindistinguishability relation (encoding ranularity).
Once we develop a coretheory of scales, we can use the predicates it provides to characterize a largenumber of lexical items, such as "range", "limit", and the comparative andsuperlative morphemes.
For x to range from y to z, for example, is for yand z to be endpoints of a subscale s of a scale, and for x to be a set of21entities which are located at elements of s. By choosing different scales, wecan get such uses asThe buffalo ranged from northern Texas to southern Saskatchewan.The students' SAT scores range from 1100 to 1550.The hepatitis cases range from moderate to severe.His behavior anges from sullen to vicious.Our desire to optimize the possibilities of using core theories in metaphor-ical and analogical contexts leads us to adopt the following methodologicalprinciple: For any given concept we wish to characterize, we should deter-mine the minimal structure necessary for that concept to make sense.
Inefforts to axiomatize some domain, there are two positions one may take,one exemplified by set theory and the other by group theory.
In axiom-atizing set theory, one attempts to capture exactly some concept one hasstrong intuitions about.
If the axiomatization turns out to have unexpectedmodels, this exposes an inadequacy.
In group theory, by contrast, one char-acterizes an abstract class of structures.
If there turn out to be unexpectedmodels, this is a serendipitous discovery of a new phenomenon that we canreason about using an old theory.
The pervasiveness of metaphor in naturallanguage discourse shows that our commonsense theories of the world oughtto be much more like group theory than set theory.Our approach to space and dimensionality illustrates this.
Rather thandefining dimension in the classical manner of linear algebra, in a way thatrequires a measure and arithmetic operations, we have sought to be able tobuild spaces out of less structured components.
Thus, we have defined a two-dimensional space as a set of elements that can be located on two differentscales that are independent in the sense that the order of two elements on onescale cannot be predicted from their order onthe  other.
A space can then bedefined corresponding to any set of scales, l~eal space is an instantiation ofthis theory, and so are various idealizations of it.
But metaphorical spacesare also instantiations.
We can, for example, talk about salary and qualityof life as different dimensions relevant o job choice.We have concentrated more on specifying axioms than on constructingmodels.
Thus, our approach is more syntactic than semantic, in the logicalsense.
Our view is that the chief role of models in our effort is for provingthe consistency and independence of sets of axioms, and for showing theiradequacy.
Many of the spatial and temporal theories we construct are in-tended at least to have Euclidean space or the real numbers as one model,22but they are also intended to have discrete, finite, and less highly structuredmodels as well.Not only do people seem to have single theories for multiple phenomena,they also seem to have multiple theories for single phenomena.
Where thisis so, where for example several competing ontologies uggest hemselves,we attempt o construct a theory that accommodates both.
R.ather thancommit ourselves to adopting one set of primitives rather than another, wetry to show how each set of primitives can be characterized in terms of theother.
Then one need not make claims of primacy for either.
Generally,each of the ontologies is useful for different purposes, and it is convenientto be able to appeal to both.
Our treatment of time illustrates this.
Onepossible approach is to take the time line as basic, and to say that eventsand conditions have associated time instants or intervals.
In this view,there is a change in the world if an entity is in one state at one point intime and in another state at another point in time.
This view is reflectedin language in the clock and calendar vocabulary.
Another approach, one Ithink corresponds better with the way we really view the world most of thetime, is to say that there i sa  primitive relation change between conditionsor situations, that these conditions and.
changes can co-occur, and that thetime line is just an idealized sequence of changes that many other eventsco-occur .with.
This view seems to be deeply embedded in language, in, forexample, verbs describing changes of state.
Rather than be forced into oneontology or the other, we have shown how each can be defined in terms ofthe other.In addition to being cavalier about the match between the core theoriesand the way the world really is, we are being cavalier about whether theaxiomatizations fit into the classical mold of a few undefined, "primitive"predicates and a large number of predicates defined in terms of these primi-tives.
We take it that one can rarely expect to find necessary and sufficientconditions for some concept p. There will be few axioms of the form_=_ QThe most we can hope for is to find a number of necessary conditions and anumber of sufficient conditions, that is, a number of axioms of the form(w)p(x) o Qand a number of axioms of the form(Vx)R23It is generally hopeless to aim for definit ions; the most we can expect ischaracter izat ions.
This amounts to saying that virtually every predicate isa primitive, but a primitive that is highly interrelated with the rest of theknowledge base.One way this can happen is il lustrated by the predicate at.
There arevery few facts that one can conclude from the fact that one entity is atanother in an arbitrary system.
The predicate is used first as a way ofrelating many other concepts, especially concepts involving change, witheach other.
So there are axioms that say that when something moves fromone point to another, it is no longer at the first and is now at the second.
Itssecond use is as an entry point into spatial metaphors.
There are a numberof axioms of the form^ q(y, s) at(x,y,s)when we see a spatial metaphor and ask what would imply such a usage,axioms like these enable an interpretation.The predicate cause is another illustration of the roles of primitive pred-icates in thh knowledge base.
We do not attempt to define causality interms of other, more basic concepts.
There are a few things we know aboutcausality in general, such as the transitivity, of cause and the relation be-tween cause  and temporal order.
But otherwise almost all we know aboutcausality is particular facts about what kinds of particular events cause whatother kinds of particular events.
We should not expect o have a highly de-veloped theory of causality per se.
Rather we should expect to see causalinformation distributed throughout the knowledge base.Another example of characterization rather than definition is providedby natural kind terms, like "metal".
We all know from Putnam that we can'thope to define such terms in ways that will survive future scientific discovery.Even if we were able to define them in ways consistent with current science,the definitions would be very distant from common sense.
Nevertheless, weknow a great many properties of metals, and this knowledge plays a role inthe interpretation of many texts we encounter.
Therefore, the knowledgebase contains a number of axioms encoding things like the fact that metalsbehave in a certain way when subjected to increasing forces.The TACITUS project is fairly new, and we have not yet characterizeda large number of words or axiomatized very many core theories.
But a~-ready the range of words we have been able to handle indicates the promiseof our approach.
Here are some examples.
The word "range" has alreadybeen discussed.
Assemblies and environments are both systems of particular24kinds, and we can say that an assembly "operates" if it engages i n its norma-tive behavior in an environment.
The word "immediately", etymologically,predicates of an ordering relation between two events that a third relevantevent does not occur between them.
This fact can be expressed in termsprovided by the core theories of scales and time.
The word "brittle" can becharacterized within the same theory of materials acted upon by forces thatwas useful in specifying some properties of metals, mentioned, above.
Theconcept "wear", as in "worn bearings" or "a worn-out shirt", was one of theoriginal targets of our research effort.
Wear is the cumulative small-scaleloss of material from the surface of an object due to the abrasive action ofsome external material.
We have been able to state this formally in terms ofpredicates from core theories of granularity, change, force, and the topologyand cohesion of pieces of material.
The diversity and complexity of the setof words we have been able to handle encourages us in the belief that lex-ical semantics hould be integrated with efforts to formalize commonsenseknowledge.An old favorite question for lexical theorists is whether one can make auseful distinction between linguistic knowledge and world knowledge.
Theposition I have articulated leads one to an answer that can be stated briefly.There is no useful distinction.
In discourse comprehension and generation,both kinds of knowledge are required a.nd, in our work so far on interpre-tation, both are handled in the same way.
Defining or characterizing wordscan only be done as an adjunct to an effort to build theories useful for un-derstanding phenomena in the world.
In fact, the only reason I can imaginefor maintaining such a distinction is for preserving discipline boundaries.There is, however, a useful, related distinction in kinds of knowledgebases one might build.
The knowledge base we are building is geared towardcommunication.
There are other efforts, such as those in qualitative physics.
(e.g., DeKleer and Brown, 1985), which are geared toward the predictionof physical events in the absence of complete information.
In such efforts,one is less concerned about metaphor and more concerned about detailedcorrespondence with the world.
It wouldn't disturb me if with our knowledgebase we failed to predict when a valve would close, but I would be disturbedif we could not cope with spatial metaphors for, say, economic information.So far we have spent more time developing the core theories than incharacterizing words in terms of them.
What we have done in the latter areahas primarily been for exploratory and illustrative purposes.
Moreover, theentire effort is so new that frequently when we try to characterize a word wediscover another core theory or two that needs to be axiomatized first.
So25we have barely scratched the surface in constructing the kind of knowledgebase required for genuine text processing.
What hope is there for scalingup?
There are two points to make here.
First of all, Maurice Gross is fondof pointing out that other fields, such as astronomy and botany, have facedjust as formidable a task of classification and cataloguing as we face, andhave thrived on it.
When we have a better idea of what we want to do, therewill be people enough to do it.Secondly, there is promise in the recent attention given to automatic pro-cessing of already existing on-line dictionaries and other knowledge sources.I can imagine that work eventually converging in a fruitful way with ourresearch.
I like to characterize the difference between the TACITUS projectand recent projects aimed at encoding all the knowledge in an encyclope-dia by saying that rather than encoding the knowledge in the encyclopedia,we are trying to encode the knowledge required by someone before he evenopens the encyclopedia, just to be able to read it.
The same holds trueof a dictionary.
As we build up a larger and larger knowledge base andfurther implement the procedures that will use this knowledge in text com-prehension, we will be more and more in the position of being able to usethe information in large, on-line dictionaries.
Work on extracting semantichierarchies from on-line dictionaries (Amsler, 1980; Chodorow, Byrd, andHeidorn, 1985) will not merely reveal a set of semantic primitives for somedomain.
These semantic primitives will be concepts that have already beenexplicated in core theories in the knowledge base, so that this automaticanalysis will have in turn yielded more valuable results.
We will have ex-tended the knowledge base itself using these on-line resources.AcknowledgementsThe research described here is a joint effort with William Croft, Todd Davies,Douglas Edwards, and Kenneth Laws.
The opinions expressed here are,however, my own.
The research is funded by the Defense Advanced ResearchProjects Agency under Office of Naval Research contract N00014-85-C-0013.References\[1\] Amsler, Robert A., 1980.
The Structure of the Merriam-Webster PocketDictionary, doctoral dissertation, TP~-164, University of Texas, Austin.26\[2\] Chodorow, Martin S., Roy J. Byrd, and George E. Heidorn, 1985.
"Ex-tracting Semantic Hierarchies from a Large On-line Dictionary", Proceed-ings, 23rd Annum Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, Chicago, Illinois, pp.
299-304.\[3\] De Kleer, Johann, and John Seely Brown.
1985.
"A Qualitative PhysicsBased on Confluences."
Formal Theories of the Commonsense World, ed.by Jerry R. Hobbs and Robert C. Moore, Ablex Publishing Corp., pp.109-184.\[4\] Hobbs, Jerry R., William Croft, Todd Davies, Douglas Edwards, andKenneth Laws, 1986.
"Commonsense Metaphysics and Lexical Seman-tics", Proceedings, 24th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, New York, pp.
231-240.27
