Position Paper on MetaphorGeorge LakoffUniversity of California, BerkeleyMy research as focussed mainly on conventional metaphor built intothe conceptual system on which our everyday language is based.
What Iand others have found is that metaphor plays a major role in semantics.
Itis the means by which domains of experience that are not highly structuredon their own terms get structured on the basis of other, highly-structureddomains.
Domains need structure so that one can reason about them.
Themajor function of metaphor is thus to supply structure in terms of whichreasoning can be done.
What we have-found is that an enormous amountof our reasoning is metaphorical (see Lakoff, 1986b; Lakoff and Johnson,1987; Johnson, 1087; Turner, 1987; Holland and Quinn, 1987; and espe-cially Quinn, in preparation).Metaphors are systematic structure mappings from one domain ofexperience to another.
Metaphors occur at the level of concepts, notlinguistic expressions, and in most cases they are fairly general, occurringat a superordinate l vel rather than the basic level.
A single such generalmetaphor will give rise to many individual metaphorical expressions.
Ihave encountered four general types of metaphor:(1) Complex schema mappings: These map complex schemas in one domain(e.g.
WAR) into corresponding schemas in another domain (e.g., ARGU-MENT).
Each such mapping applies both to entities (the source ontology ismapped onto the target ontology) and relations holding among the entities(knowledge about the source is mapped onto knowledge about the target).
(2) Image-schema mappings: Image-schemas re general topological andorientational structures that are kinaesthetic n nature.
They have an ana-log rather than digital character.
And they have sufficient internal struc-ture to permit inferences.
Examples include: containers, paths, linearscales, center-periphery, force, links, balance, contact/noncontact, ycles,front/back, etc.
A great many conventional metaphors are based on suchschemas.
For example, purposes are understood metaphorically as destina-tions, and achieving a purpose is understood as traveling along a path tothat destination.
(3) One-shot rich-image mappings: Consider the word dunk as applied to (i)to cookies and milk, donuts and coffee, etc.
and (ii) to basketball.
There isa conventional rich image for cases like (i); it involves a hand putting apiece of food through the rim of a cup or glass into liquid.
In (ii~, a hand isputting a basketball through the rim of the basket.
There is a partial194mapping from the image in (i) to the image in (ii).
The extension of theword dunk from food to basketball is a metaphorical extension based onthis mapping from one conventional image to another.
This is a 'one-shot'mapping.
That is, there is no system of concepts being mapped.
Themapping sanctions the lexical extension of only one word.
(4) Aristotle's metaphor: This is a single, very general metaphor of the fol-lowing form: SOMETHING IS WHAT IT HAS SALIENT PROPERTIES OF.
Itrelates entities in one domain to enties in another domain, on the basis ofcommon properties.
Unlike other general metaphorical mappings, whichhave fixed domains, this general metaphor seems to have variable domains.It is this metaphor that gives rise to relatively boring cases like Man is awolf, Harry is a pig, etc., which are unfortunately the cases most cited inthe classical metaphor literature.
Oddly enough, little of a systematicnature is known about this metaphor (e.g., whether there are restrictionson its domains).Actually, these four types of metaphor are not mutually exclusive andmixed cases are common.
For example, (3) and (1) are sometimes combinedin cases where complex knowledge about the source image is carried overinto the target domain.
Moreover, since complex schemas tend to haveimage-schmatic subparts, it is common for cases of (1) to also be cases of(2).On the whole, I have found (1) and (2) the most interesting types fora number of reasons:(A) They are not based on similarity; though they may create structuralsimilarities.
(B) They tend to create structure and even entitites in the target domain.
(C) They are used in reasoning; indeed, that is their main function.The image-based metaphorical mappings -- (2) and (3) -- are interesting foranother eason: they cannot be adequately characterized in finitary terms.Any digital rendering will miss generalizations.I have found (4) to be the most boring, and also the rarest of thetypes (though none of them is particularly rare).
Cases of Aristotle's meta-phor become interesting mainly when they are combined with metaphors ofother types, as when the similarities they are based on are created by othermetaphors.195Literary metaphorA great many literary metaphors are extensions of ordinary conven-tional metaphors of type (1) and (2).
Allegory appears to be a case wherean existing conventional metaphor of type (1) is sustained over an entireliterary work (see Turner, 1987).
It is useful to distinguish such stablemetaphors in a literary work from fleeting metaphors (those that occuronce and disappear).
Fleeting literary metaphors tend to be of types (3)and (4), which incidentally are based on similarity and are not used allthat much in reasoning.Scientific analogiesSome scientific analogies are extensions of conventional metaphors oftype 1.
For example, the mind-as-computer metaphor is an extension of theold mind-as-machine metaphor.
In general, useful scientific analogies eemto have the properties of metaphors of type 1; that is, they are systematic,well-defined, and map high-level abstract relations uch as causation.
Theythus give rise to a great many metaphoric entailments.
In this way, usefulscientific analogies are structurally just like most ordinary conventionalmetaphors and like stable metaphors (including allegories) in literaryworks.
Correspondingly, scientific analogies are unlike most fleetingliterary metaphors (those of types 3 and 4).Constraints on the MappingsPerhaps the central theoretical question in metaphor esearch todayis: What determines the details of the mappings.
What determines thechoice of source and target domain?
What determines which entities getmapped onto which other entities?
A partial answer comes from thetheory of experiential bases: regular recurrent correlations in experiencebetween source domain and entities and target domain entities determinesthe ontological mappings.
This works for a certain range of image-schemamappings (those of type 2).
In cases of complex schema mappings, explana-tions are sometimes attainable (see Lakoff, 1986b) in terms of inferencesbased on other metaphors with experiential bases and their interactionwith folk knowledge.
In general, our knowledge at present is sketchy, tosay the least.196Selected Bibliography of Recent ResearchHolland, Dorothy and Naomi Quinn.
1987.
Cultural Models in Languageand Thought.
Cambridge University Press.Johnson, Mark.
1987.
The Body in the Mind.
University of Chicago Press.Kuhn, Thomas.
Unpublished ms. Scientific Development and LexicalChange.Lakoff, George.
1986a.
Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things.
University ofChicago Press.Lakoff, George.
1986b.
A Figure of Thought.
In Metaphor and SymbolicActivity, 1:3.Lakoff, George.
1986c.
The Meaning of Literal In Metaphor and SymbolicActivity, 1:4.Lakoff, George and Mark Johnson.
1987.
The Metaphorical Logic of Rape.In Metaphor and Symbolic Activity, 2:1:Lakoff, George and Zolt?n Kovecses.
1983.
The Concept of Anger Inherentin American English.
In Holland and Quinn.Lindner, Susan.
1982.
What goes up doesn't necessarily come down: Theins and outs of opposites.
In Vol.
18, Chicago Linguistic Society.Lindner, Susan.
1981.
A Lexico-Semantic Analysis of English Verb ParticleConstructions with OUT and UP.
UCSD Ph.D. Thesis.
pp.
75 - 230.Quinn, Naomi.
In Preparation.
American Marriage: A Cultural Analysis.Rhodes, Richard and John Lawler.
1981.
Athematic Metaphor.
InProceedings of the Chicago Linguistics Society.Roediger, Henry L. 1980.
Memory Metaphors in Cognitive Psychology.
InMemory and Cognition, Vol.
8 (3), 231-24{}.Sweetser, Eve.
1984.
Semantic Structure And Semantic Change.
UCBerke-ley PhD Dissertation.
In press, Cambridge University Press.Turner, Mark.
1987.
Death is the Mother of Beauty.
University of ChicagoPress.197
