What  is Spec ia l  AboutNatura l  Language Generat ion  Research?William C. MannUSC Information Sciences Institute 1Marina del Rey, CASince the guidance given to the panel was more provocative than regulative, Ihave organized my statement around just one of the questions:What is special about Text Generation relative to NL Understanding?This breaks down conveniently into parts:1.
Are there foundational ideas that generation and understanding work share?2.
What are the technical distinctives of generation?3.
Are those distinctives real?4.
What are the special characteristics of generation as a research task?1 Shared  Foundat ionsWhile there are considerable differences in the tasks to be solved in TextGeneration and NL Understanding, the two areas of research draw on a significantnumber of shared ideas and knowledge.
2 They constitute an account of what the factsand phenomena of natural language are.
Moving from fine-grained to coarse-grainedphenomena, they include:1.
Lexicon: Most work in both understanding and generation assumes ataxonomy of basic word classes, a notion of the semantic senses of words anda morphology.
Also in both, there is currently a strong trend towardrecognizing many sorts of lexical complexities: idioms, collocations, lexicalfunctions (in several senses) and other inter-item interactions.2.
Grammar: Ther are shared descriptions of the types of constructions that areavailable in a specific language.
At a minimum, a language processing1Legal Notice: This research was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research contract No.F49620-84-C-0100.
The views and conclusions contained in this document are those of the author andshould not be interpreted as necessarily representing the official policies or endorsements, either expressedor implied, of the Air Force Office of Scientific Research of the U.S. Government.2Bob Kasper contributed heavily to this section.227program includes a grammar, some specification of a set of syntacticpatterns.. Discourse Phenomena: Descriptions of various discourse phenomena areimportant in both lines of work.
Anaphora is particularly prominent.
Acluster of phenomena identified with terms such as theme, focus and topic isalso basic.
There is also a general recognition that ordinary language doesnot make explicit everything that is being conveyed, and that thenon-explicit material is just as important as the explicit material in effectivelanguage use.
It seems likely that there will be substantial cross-fertilizationfrom these two lines of current work on discourse, partly because theavailable descriptions of discourse are still not well agreed upon.. Situational Phenomena: The situation in which the language is used,including a description of the language user and the task at hand, areacknowledged as important and actively studied.
Goal pursuit by thelanguage user(s) is regarded as an important orienting notion.Both generation and understanding are working hard on all of these.
Inevitably,there is some complemenarity (see Section 3.)
But although the descriptive foundationsare shared in a loose way, we will see that the sorts of problems addressed differsharply.More substantial sharing occurs in the areas of knowledge representation andinference.
Here the problems and solutions, not just the recognition of phenomena, areshared.
There is hope for convergence, for one all-sufficient underlying representationalform, and for a non-directional view of language.
It is often suggested that an adequatetext generator must have an understander inside to check its work.
Still, the researchactivity is dominated by the differences rather than the shared elements.2 Techn ica l  D is t inc t ives  o f  Text  Generat ionJust observing work on understanding and generation, it's clear that the peopleworking and writing on these topics are usually not writing about the same things.
Tostart to understand the situation we can look at the technical differences and then laterjudge how fundamental these differences are.What  are the apparent differences?
One class consists of problems which aremajor sources of difficulty in NL Understandin~ but which are minor or absent in NLGeneration:1.
Coverin~ all the ways to say thin~s is not a problem.
These days it'ssufficient (and difficult enough) to have one way to say everything, with justenough perturbations to get sufficiently fluent text.228...Goal identification is not a problem.
A generation system can know its owngoals easily.
Of course, coming up with the right goals is still a problem.Vocabulary coverage is not a problem.
The lexicon of a generator can becreated in correspondence with available knowledge; the user's unboundednumber of other ways of expressing the knowledge do not have an impact.Ambiguity is a secondary problem.
People, operating in context with a richknowledge of the subject matter, can disambiguate generated language verywell.Another class consists of problems which are important in Generation but minoror absent in Understanding:.
Deciding how much to say, and what things to not say, are problems.
Thisinvolves maintaining brevity, avoiding saying what is too obvious, and yetproviding sufficient background information to make the generated textcomprehensible.. Design of text structure is a problem.
This is sometimes taken to be thecoherence problem as well: text must be coherent, and appropriate structuremakes it so.
Structure design has many identifiable subproblems:a?
Structure building includes addin~ material to make presentation ofthe basic sub iect matter work.
For example, it is often necessary toadd evidence, concessives, circumstantials, antithesis, contrast andother supporting material.b.
Structurin~ a text causes assertion-like effects in addition to theexpected effects of  individual clauses.
Controlling these effects, andtaking advantage of them as a resource, is a problem.c.
Orderin~ the material for presentation is very consequential.d.
Various sorts of text carry the expectation of special patterns andformulaic text: titles, abstracts, salutations, origination dates,authorship notes and acknowledgments.e.
Makin~ the text smooth flowin~ and easy to comprehend involvesleading the reader's attention.
There are many particular techniqueswhich contribute.
This requirement constrains structure design andrequires extra work at the structural and sentential levels.3.
Even after creating a detailed text plan, with all clauses identified, there aresubstantial additional technical issues in carrying out the plan.a.
Presuming that the plan is in terms of a sequence of (effects of)229clauses, the sentence boundaries are not determined.
Which clausesshould be combined into sentences?
What relations need to beexpressed by conjunctions?
What conjunction uses can be reduced tonoun conjunction or some other lower rank?b.
Decidin~ when to use anaphora is a problem.C.d.Lexical selection is a problem.
Related, there are many varieties ofidioms and lexical colocations whose restricted character is importantonly for generation, not understanding.English has rather elaborate provisions which enable the reader'sattention to flow smoothly over the material.
These include emphasisdevices, and also various kinds of theme control (includingpassivization as one of many kinds).
These must be controlled in orderto create high quality running text.3 The  A l te rnat ive  View: The Differences in the Tasks  are  Unrea lThe claim has been made that there are really no underlying language problemsthat are unique to either generation or understanding.
Rather, every evident problemhas a counterpart which may or may not be evident on the other side of the fence.
So,for example, the counterpart of (Generation: deciding how much to say) is(Understanding: identify the selectivity involved in saying just this much.)
Thecounterpart of (Generation: lexical selection) is (Understanding: drawing conclusionsfrom the fact that this particular term was used rather than alternative terms.)
And soforth.
The underlying claim is that if a process is used in generation, it has effectswhich may be discernible, interpretable, ven significant.
The earliest use of this claimthat I know was by Chip Bruce, in the presentation of \[Bruce 75\].As a statement of what sorts of effects can (in principle) be found, this has acertain plausibility, and may be technically correct.
Nevertheless, it does not representthe state of the art in terms of problems actually worked on.
Instead, the lists ofproblems being addressed by generation and understanding research differ substantially,and will remain different for a long time to come.
This is because the problems thatlimit the achievable quality of performance~ the problems that pace progress, differstrongly between ~eneration and understanding.4 D is t inct ives  of Text  Generat ion  as a Research  TaskThere are non-technical factors that make research into text generation verydifferent from text understanding research:1.
In both duration and number of workers, there has been far less activity in~eneration than in understanding.
In spite of much recent expansion in230..generation work (see \[Kempen S6\] for a representative collection) there arefar fewer precedents and established results in generation.
Work ingeneration is less known, so much so that some people habitually conceive ofall AI language research as NLU (natural anguage understanding.)
(See, forexample, the IJCAI87 call for papers.
)It is easier to control a ~eneration task, since it is not subject to anuncontrolled input source (the user.)
There is inherently more control overvocabulary, lexical phenomena, syntactic range and semantic diversity ingeneration.Generation and understanding need to be understood in terms of an overallmodel of human communication.
The nature of language and theconstraints on its use come from its role in communication.
If investigationof communication is taken as the underlyin~ task, then ~eneration ~ivesmuch better access to that task~ just because it is much easier to developmethods and programs that work with whole discourses rather than beingrestricted to tiny numbers of sentences.5 Conc lus ionsThe set of technical problems that limit the quality of generated text is verydifferent from the corresponding set of problems that limits the quality of naturallanguage understanding.
While the problems might, in principle, be problems of bothunderstanding and generation, they are not so in practise.Generation provides ome important advantages over understanding as a researchsubject, because it does not require coping with an uncontrolled language-user.
As aresult, research into computational models of communication can sometimes be mademore efficient by studying generation.References\[Bruce 75\] Bruce, B. C., "Generation as a social action," in Proceedings of TheoreticalIssues in Natural Language Processing-I (TINLAP), pp.
64-67, Cambridge, Mass.,June 1975.\[Kempen 86\] Kempen, Gerard, (ed.
), Proceedings of the Third International Workshopon Text Generation, , Nijmegen, The Netherlands, 1986.231
