GENERATION - A NEW FRONTIER OF NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING?Aravind K. JoshiDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaComprehension and generation are the two complementary aspects of natural languageprocessing (NLP).
However, much of the research in NLP until recently has focussed oncomprehension.
Some of the reasons for this almost exclusive mphasis on comprehension are(1) the belief that comprehension is harder than generation, (2) problems in comprehension couldbe formulated in the AI paradigm developed for problems in perception, (3) the potential areas ofapplications eemed to call for comprehension more than generation, e.g., question-answersystems, where the answers can be presented in some fixed format or even in some non-linguistic fashion (such as tables), etc.
Now there is a flurry of activity in generation, and we aredefinitely going to see a significant part of future NLP research devoted to generation.
A keymotivation for this interest in generation is the realization that many applications of NLP requirethat the response produced by a system must be flexible (i.e., not produced by filling in a fixedset of templates) and must often consist of a sequence of sentences (i.e., a text) which must havea textual structure (and not just an arbitrary sequence of sentences containing the necessaryinformation).
As the research in generation is taking roots, a number of interesting theoreticalissues have become very important, and these are likely to determine the paradigm of research inthis "new" area.Based on the input from several researchers in NLP, I prepared a set of questions that thepanel on Generation was invited to address in their position papers.
These questions were asfollows:?
What is the relationship between NL comprehension a d generation?Is there inherently an asymmetry between comprehension a d generation?Is comprehension more heuristic than generation??
Will the demands of language generation bring AI and linguistics closer togetherthan the demands of comprehension did in the past.
Is there something special aboutgeneration?202?
Does generation constrain the problem differently from comprehension i that itwould not matter if some high-powered machine could comprehend things nohuman could say, but would matter if the same machine generated them.?
How should the generation and comprehension capabilities of a system be matched.By looking at the sentences or texts a system generates, the user may ascribecomprehension capabilities to the system, which the system may or may not have.In other words how will generation affect user's behavior with respect o the inputhe/she provides to the system??
Are knowledge structures of the world as much as language, the same or differentfor comprehension a d generation??
How does one control for syntactic hoice and lexical choice??
What is the status of different grammatical formalisms with respect o generation?Should the formalism be the same for generation as for comprehension?The panelists have chosen to focus on some of these questions.
They have, of course, raisedsome additional questions.
Some of the key issues discussed by the panelists are as follows.Appelt has explored the notion of bidirectional grammars, i.e., grammars that can be used byprocessors of approximately equal computational complexity to parse and generate sentences oflanguage.
In this sense, he wants to treat comprehension a d generation as strict inverses of eachother.
He suggests that by using bidirectional grammars the problems of maintainingconsistency between comprehension a d generation components when one of them changes canbe eliminated.
Kroch is concerned with the limits on the capacity of the human languagegeneration mechanism, which translates preverbal messages into sentences of a natural language.His main point is that there are limits to the competence the generation mechanism is trying tomodel.
He suggests some theoretical characterizations of these limits that should help incircumscribing the problem of generation.
McDonald points out that although one could have acommon representation f linguistic knowledge, the processes that draw on this knowledge forcomprehension and generation cannot be the same because of the radical differences ininformation flow.
He also points out that in generation it is difficult to ignore syntax and control203of variation of linguistic form.
Mann considers various aspects of lexicon, grammar, anddiscourse from the point of view of comprehension and generation.
Although bothcomprehension and generation have to deal with all these problems, there are differences withrespect o particular problems addressed in generation.
He suggests that these differences arisebecause the technical problems that limit the quality of generated text are very different from thecorresponding set of problems that limits the quality of comprehension.
Marcus focusses on theproblem of lexical choice, which has not received much attention in the work on generation sofar.
He suggests that if the generation systems are to be both fluent and portable, they mustknow about both words and meanings.
He is concerned about the fact that much of the currentresearch on generation has focussed on subtle and difficult matters as responding appropriatelyto the user's intentions, correctly utilizing rhetorical structures etc., but it has avoided the issueof what would make such systems mean the literal content of the words they use.Comprehension and generation, when viewed as functions mapping from utterances tomeanings and intentions and vice versa, can certainly be regarded as inverses of each other.However, these functions are enormously complex and therefore, although at the global levelthey are inverses of each other, the inverse transformation (i.e, computation of one function ftomthe other) is not likely to be so direct.
So, in this sense, there may be an asymmetry betweencomprehension and generation even at the theoretical level.
There is an asymmetry certainly atthe practical level.
In comprehension, under certain circumstances, ome of the linguisticknowledge may be ignored (of course, at some cost) by utilizing some higher levels ofknowledge, which is required in any case.
However, under the same circumstances, one cannotavoid the use of the very same linguistic knowledge in generation, the quality of the outputbecomes quite unacceptable to a human user very rapidly, otherwise.
It is this asymmetry that, Ithink, will force us to examine in detail the relationship between grammar, lexicon, and messageplanning and may elucidate the relationship between linguistic knowledge and conceptualknowledge.
All these questions are equally relevant o comprehension.
However, work ongeneration seems to require us to be more sensitive to these relationships than we may have beenin the past, when the focus was on comprehension ly.Comprehension and generation are not just inverses, they are related to each other also inanother manner.
The human generation mechanism also involves some monitoring of the output,204presumably by the comprehension mechanism.
Computer generation systems o far have notbeen concerned with this issue (as far as I know).
The generation and comprehensioncomponents work independently, even if they share some procedures and data structures, theyhave no knowledge of each other.
Whether or not comprehension and generation should berelated to each other in this sense in a computer system is an open question and needsconsiderable attention.
The panelists have not paid much attention to this question (one of themhas declared it as a non-problem).
Perhaps, the audience will make some contributions here.AcknowledgementsThis work is partially supported by DARPA grants NOOO14-85-K-0018 andNOOO14-85-K-0807, NSF grants MCS8219196-CER, MCS-82-07294, 1 RO1-HL-29985-01, U.S. Army grants DAA6-29-84-K-0061, DAAB07-84-K-F077, U.S. AirForce grant 82-NM-299, AI Center grants NSF-MCS-83-05221.205
