Position Paper on Common-sense and Formal SemanticsGeoffrey NunbergXerox PARC and CSLI, Stanford1.
A phi lological  excursusI'm not sure what I'm doing on this panel, but I thought it would behelpful if we could start at the beginning.
It's interesting to note that boththe dictionary and common sense were eighteenth-century inventions.
Thisis no coincidence; in fact, it's entirely appropriate that the most celebratedblow that was ever struck on behalf of common sense was delivered by Dr.Johnson himself, when he kicked a stone in refutation of Berkeley'sidealism.
If you'll indulge me, I'd like briefly to explore this connection, withthe promise that I'll wind up by drawing a moral about n_atural-languageunderstanding.First for "common sense."
To be sure, the phrase had been in usesince the fourteenth century, but it was not until the eighteenth century thatit acquired three important philosophical uses, which we confuse at ourperil.
First, there was the understanding of common sense as the faculty ofjudgement possessed by the average person as part of his birthright.
This isthe sense of the phrase that Priestly had in mind when he wrote (1775):"Common sense...in common acceptation...has long been appropriated...tothat capacity for judging of common things that persons of middlingcapacities are capable of."
In this sense, common sense is variously ageneral or universal faculty, "the same in every time and clime," as Hume(somewhere) put it; to avoid confusion here, I'll sometimes refer to this asthe faculty of common sense.
Now for many philosophers of the period, itwas an article of doctrine that natural and moral law were accessible tocommon sense, and hence that the body of common man could achieveboth the degree of understanding of the world and the refinement of moraljudgment necessary to self-government.
This was the view of Hume, ofJohnson, and of course of Thomas Paine, who entitled his famous treatiseon natural rights Common Sense.The second use of the phase was more narrowly associated with theScottish School of philosophy(also called the "Philosophers of CommonSense"); on this understanding it is a universal endowment, not just ofcritical faculties, but of beliefs.
As the philosopher Hamilton put it, commonsense is in this interpretation is "the complement of those cognitions orconvictions which we receive from nature; which all men possess incommon .... " This group made common sense the test of all philosophicaldoctrines, and in particular referred to the common-sense belief in thereality of the physical world in the course of their Berkeley.bashing (a129position to which Hume, unlike Johnson, was not sympathetic).
More recently, thisis the sense of the phrase that a lot of AI researchers appear to have in mind whenthey talk about "common-sense knowledge" as a body of generally accepted beliefsabout the world.The third eighteenth-century use of "common sense" is somewhat archaicnowadays, and usually appeared with the definite article, as "the common sense.
"Here, the common sense is the body of beliefs and values possessed by a communityas a whole--what we might now call "received wisdom," or "custom" or perhapswhat Durkheim referred to as the "collective representation."
For now, I'll call thisthe "collective sense," to avoid confusion.
Roughly, you could think of this as a kindof systematic representation that exists only collectively, and which is realized only ininteraction.Now for the dictionary.
Before the eighteenth century, such dictionaries asexisted were mostly lists of "hard words," and no one seemed to mind the absenceof a dictionary of the modern sort, which would set out the rules for using all thewords in general currency.
It's a complicated matter to explain why this changed inJohnson's time.
In part, he was animated by a widespread contemporary Sentimentthat knowledge was expanding and becoming specialized beyond the ability of anyone person to master it (recall that this was also the time at which the "division oflabor" entered the general discussion).
But he was also sensitive to the doctrinesabout common sense and politics that I mentioned a moment ago.
What he hoped todo, finding the language "copious without order," was nothing less than tosystematize the collective sense of the English-speaking community, or at least suchpart of it as was embodied in the uses of words, so as to make it generally accessibleto the ordinary reader.
This step was crucial to the democratic program, whichrelied on the ability of the common man to coordinate an informed discourse aboutthe world as it was and as it ought to be; to use words, if not in exactly the sameways, then at least in line with general practice.Note that the possibility of succeeding in this enterprise rested on twoassumptions about the role that the individual faculty of common sense would haveto play in the process.
First, as I noted earlier, Johnson and his contemporariesassumed that the ordinary individual was capable of grasping that part of thecollective sense embodied in the definition (or as he called it, the "explanation") of aword; as he put it in an essay in the Idler, the most obscure doctrines of philosophyand science would be "found to contain nothing more than very plain truths," whichcould be "delivered in p!ain language."
The second assumption is somewhat subtler.Johnson had to assume as well that readers would come generally to acknowledgethe authority of his dictionary, or in more humility, the authority of the authors hecited in explication of the uses of words.
So far as I know, Johnson himself neveraddressed this problem head-on, but the importance of common sense in thisprocess was acknowledged by his contemporary George Campbell, a rhetoricianassociated with the common-sense school, in his Philosophy ot Rhetoric (1776):"The source...of that preference which distinguisheth good use from bad inlanguage, is a natural propensity of the human mind to believe that those are the bestjudges of the proper signs, and of the proper applications of them, who understandbest the things which they represent."
It is fair to say, then, that eighteenth-century130beliefs about the faculty of common sense both made the Dictionary necessary, andmade it possible.2.
Common sense and the socialNow let me wrench this out of context.
What makes the eighteenth centuryinteresting from a linguistic point of view is not the peculiarities of its situation--thefact, for example, that an actual written dictionary was first produced then, or that theenterprise was connected to explicit political notions.
The latter is important only inthat it forced people to become self-consciously aware of certain problems oflanguage, and set up a scheme for taking them on.
(Analogously, it was in theeighteenth century that philosophers first became aware of the market as a socialtype, thouch certainly markets themselves had been around long before.)
Inparticular, they made an explicit effort to talk about problems of linguisticcoordination.
And stripped of local details, their formulation of the situation isapplicable to all discourse in all languages.
You could say that all linguisticcommunities are democracies, in the sense that deference to linguistic authority isalways consensual.If these questions haven't loomed very large in recent research in linguistics,AI and related fields, it's only because those fields have been wed to a doctrine ofwhat Putnam calls "methodological solipsism."
I'll come back to this point presently,but right now I want to try to show how these considerations bear on problems ofnatural-language interpretation.Suppose we put the problem in a schematic way.
On the one hand, you havethis extensive body of knowledge and assumptions--the collective sense-- whichunderlies the use of natural-language expressions.
A part of this knowledge isactually possessed by all discourse participants when they interpret utterances--thisis what constitutes their "common-sense beliefs" in the accepted use of the term.But the rest of this material is not represented by most users when they use mostexpressions, though parts of it are available to some speakers in some contexts.
Andyet this information is at least tacitly accepted as licencing all uses of all expressions.Most talk, that is, is carried out on credit, not cash on the barrel head, but thesuccess of particular exhanges, as well as the overall coordination of the largerdiscourse, depends crucially on a general belief that the credit is sound; that thelinguistic chits can be cashed in if circumstances required.
And as with any soundcurrency--and linguistic currency is more stable even that the Swiss Franc--theinteresting and somewhat paradoxical consequence is that people almost never docall in the notes, because it's taken for granted that they're good.Some examples may help.
Now the only area in which the socialdetermination of meaning has been considered at all is in the use of natural-kindterms (though no one seems to know what to make of these, either).
But I want tostay away from these cases, because in fact the situation here is rather complicated,and is obscured in Putnam's account.
What is remarkable is that no one has givenmuch thought to the fairly obvious point that the linguistic division of labor ispervasive in any direction you look.
Take words from any domain: grade-A prime,felony, squeeze play, sentence, jazz, braise, or hacker; you'll find that most people131use these words in imperfect knowledge of the things they are held to denote, and inimplicit deference to the collective sense that regulates their use.This in turn raises several questions for theories of natural-languageunderstanding.
First, how do people get away with talking abOdt the world in theabsence of what economists would call "perfect information" about the meanings ofthe words they use?
The answer is that the task of regulating words and world istaken care of socially.
I don't know how to make a Peking Duck (or do we call it aBeijing Duck nowadays?
), not even declaratively.
But man and boy, I can't count thenumber of times I've succeeded in ordering Peking Ducks, or recommending PekingDucks, or warning people off Peking Ducks.
And I can get away with this becausethere's someone in the back room whom I trust to keep the phrase "Peking Duck" inline with its denotation.How do you go about assigning an interpretation to my utterances aboutPeking Ducks, then?
There are several aspects to the problem.
In the first place,how do you decide what information I associate with the phrase when I use it, andhence what inferences you're entitled to draw about my internal state?
Note that thisis not the same as asking how much I know about Peking Ducks.
Nor is it the sameas asking how much my interlocutor and I can presuppose as common knowledgeabout Peking Ducks.
To take another example (since as I said, I don't know a lotabout Peking Ducks), suppose I'm a gallery owner and I'm trying to sell a particularacrylic painting to a client.
I may know all sorts of things about acrylics: that they'requick-drying, easy to wash off, less noxious and less smelly than oil paints, andlacking in a certain tactility.
And maybe the client knows that too.
But in this context,none of that information is relevant to our interests, and you'd be making a bigmistake if you tried to grind out all of the inferences that that kind of knowledge givesrise to.
Whereas if I'm i'ecommending a shift from oils to acrylics for a painter whohas just come down with a rash, you would have to include some of that informationto get the interpretation right.In another way, however, the collective sense does play a role in theinterpretation of all utterances, even when I am ignorant of it.
Whatever my internalstate vis-a-vis the world, I make certain social commitments about the world when Iuse an expression, and these are determined by the collective sense.
Say you go intoa restaurant and order a bottle of Sauternes, knowing only that it's a white wine; thenwhen it comes, you discover that it's very sweet.
Now you can ask the waiter to takeit back on those grounds, I suppose, and he will oblige you if he's a good guy, butyou'll be a little embarrassed about the exchange, because you realize he is notobliged to make the world conform to your idiosyncratic representation of it.
Hecould say to you, "Listen, you ordered Sauternes, you got Sauternes.
If you don'tlike it, get up, I need the table.
"Now suppose we ask what kinds of linguistic authority we recognize aslegitimate, and on what grounds?
Or to put it another way, what kinds of informationdo we put in the collective sense?
Here is where Johnson's assumptions aboutcommon sense come into play, and where Putnam comes a cropper.
Because youcan't just stick in any information that experts happen to have on hand; in fact, youcan't even say by fiat who the experts are going to be.
Suppose there's some weirdkind of grape that's a member of the same biological kind as the grape that132Sauternes wine is made from, and suppose that that grape produces a wine thattastes and looks exactly like Gatorade.
If the waiter brings me a bottle of that stuff, Isend it back with full peremtory indignation, because I am certainly not committed todefer to biological authority in this matter if it is indifferent to my gastronomicinterests.
I defer to authority only where common sense tells me it is in my interest todo so.
And 1 require of such authorty that it define categories in ways that areconsistent with my common-sense appraisal of what those interests are.
Until youhave fleshed out this story about common-sense deference, you can't determine justwhat commitments people are undertaking when they talk about the world.3.
A Note on Common-sense  and formal  semant icsAs I noted, nobody has spent much time addressing the sorts of problems I'vetouched on here.
The reason for this, I would suggest, is that linguistics and AI havebeen working under a certain methodological assumption that makes these thingshard to get at.
As Chomsky put it in his well known formulation of the goals oflinguistic theory, linguistics is concerned with the competence of "an idealspeaker-listener in a homogeneous speech-community, who knows its languageper fec t ly  .... " And while virtually every other clause of this formulation has beenraked over by one or another critic, this one has escaped almost unnoticed, for goodreason.
The fact is that when you look at the sorts of linguistic phenomena mostformal linguists have been interested in, and especially when you look at them withan eye towards describing their, systematic formal properties, it isn't going to beparticularly interesting to consider the problems raised by variation and imperfectknowledge.
For one thing, variation in these domains doesn't often coincide withany interesting differences in social interests or social knowledge.
Then too, from apurely structural point of view, an  incomplete system is not interestingly differentfrom a complete one.
Questions about the social determination of meaning onlyarise when you look at domains in which linguistic representations co-vary in aninteresting way with the social differentiation of knowledge.This suggests an interesting way of understanding a part of the distinctionbetween the methodologies of formal and common-sense semantics.
I suspect thatformal semantics is capable of making substantial progress in just those domains inwhich the social differentiation of knowledge is not relevant; in those domains, thatis, in which common-sense beliefs and the collective sense amount to pretty muchthe same thing.
But once you leave those domains for the wilds of the lexicon, youare going to have to do a lot of common-sense inferencing before you can even saywhat the meanings of expressions are, and how those meanings are relevant in theirvarious ways to utterance interpretation.133
