Knowledge Acquisition for Natural Language.GenerationEhud Re i te r  and Roma Rober tsonDept  o f  Comput ing  ScienceUniv of  Aberdeen,  Scot land{ere i te r ,  r rober ts}@csd,  abdn.
ac .
ukL ies l  OsmanDept  of  Medic ine and Therapeut icsUniv of Aberdeen,  Scot landI.
osman@abdn, ac .
ukAbst ractWe describe the knowledge acquisition (KA) tech-niques used to build the STOP system, especiallysorting and think-aloud protocols.
That is, we de-scribe the ways in which we interacted with domainexperts to determine appropriate user categories,schemas, detailed content rules, and so forth forSTOP.
Informal evaluations of these techniques sug-gest that they had some benefit, but perhaps weremost successful as a source of insight and hypothe-ses, and should ideally have been supplemented byother techniques when deciding on the specific rulesand knowledge incorporated into STOP.1 In t roduct ionAn important aspect of building natural-languagegenerat ion  (NLG) systems is knowledge acquisition.This is the process of acquiring the specific knowl-edge needed in a particular application about thedomain, the language used in the domain genre,the readers of the texts, and so forth.
Such knowl-edge influences, for example, the system's contentselection rules (whether represented asschemas, pro-duction rules, or plan operators); the system's mi-croplanning choice rules (lexicalisation, referring ex-pression generation, aggregation); and perhaps eventhe system's grammar (if a genre grammar is needed,as is tile case, for example, with weather eports).To date, knowledge acquisition for NLG systemshas largely been based on corpus analysis, infor-mal interactions with experts, and informal feed-back from users (Reiter et al, 1997; Reiter and Dale,2000).
For example, the PlanDoc developers (McK-eown et al, 1994) interviewed users to get a gen-eral understanding of the domain and user require-ments; asked a single expert to write some exampleoutput texts; and then analysed this corpus in vari-ous ways.
Other KA techniques used in the past forbuilding NLG systems include letting domain expertsspecify content rules in pseudo-code (Goldberg et al,1994) and ethnographic techniques such as observingdoctors and patients in real consultations (Forsythe,1995).As part of the .
?,ToP project (Reiter et al, 1999) togenerate personalised smoking-cessation leaflets, weinvestigated using some of the structured KA tech-niques developed by the expert-system community(see, for example, (Scott et al, 1991)) for acquiringthe knowledge needed by an NLG system.
In thispaper we summarise our experiences.
Very briefly,our overall conclusion is that in STOP, structured KAwas probably useful for getting insight into and for-mulating hypotheses about the knowledge needed byan NaG system.
However, formulating detailed rulespurely on the basis of such KA was not ideal, and itwould have been preferable to use other informationas well during this process, such as statistics aboutsmokers and feedback from smoker evaluations ofdraft STOP leaflets.2 Background:  The  STOP SystemThe STOP system generates personalised smoking-cessation leaflets, based on the recipient's responsesto a questionnaire about smoking beliefs, concerns,and experiences.
STOP leaflets consist of four A5pages, of which only the two inside pages are fullygenerated; an example of the inside pages of a STOPleaflet are shown in Figure 2.
Internally, STOP isa fairly conventional shallow NLG system, with itsmain innovation being the processing used to controlthe length of leaflets (Reiter, 2000).
STOP has beenevaluated in a clinical trial, which compared cessa-tion rates among smokers who received STOP leaflets;smokers who received anon-personalised leaflet withsimilar structure and appearance to a STOP leaflet:and smokers who did not receive any leaflet (but didfill out a questionnaire).
Unfortunately, we cannotdiscuss the results of the clinical trial in this paper I .One of the research goals of the STOP project wasto explore the use of expert-system knowledge acqtfi-sition techniques in buitding anNLO system.
Theseknowledge acquisition sessions were primarily car-ried out with the following experts:1Our medical colleagues intend to publish a paper aboutthe clinical trial in a medical journal,  and have requestedthat we not publish anything about the results of the trial ina computing journal or conference until they have publishedin a medical journal.217o three doctors (two general practitioners, oneconsultant in Thoracic Medicine)o one psychologist pecialising in health informa-tion leafletso one nurseNone of these experts were paid for their time.
Wealso did a small amount of KA with a (paid) graphicdesigner on layout and typography issues.2.1 Unusual  Aspects  o f  STOP f rom a KA"PerspectiveKA research in the expert-system community haslargely focused on applications uch as medical di-agnosis, where (1) there is a single correct solution,and (2) the task being automated is one currentlydone by a human expert.
STOP is a different ypeof application in that (1) there are many possibleleaflets which can be generated (and the system can-not tell which is best), and (2) no human currentlywrites personalised smoking-cessation leaflets (be-cause manually writing such leaflets is too expen-sive).
Point (2) in particular was repeatedly em-phasised by the experts we worked with.
The doc-tors and the nurse were experts on oral consultationswith smokers, and the health psychologist was an ex-pert on writing non-personalised health informationleaflets, but none of them had experience writingpersonalised smoking-cessation leaflets.Many NLG systems have similar characteristics.The flexibility of language means that there are al-most always many ways of communicating informa-tion and fulfilling communicative goals in a gen-erated text; in other words, there are many pos-sible texts that can be generated.
Furthermore,while some synthesis tasks, such as configuration andscheduling, can be formalised as finding an optimalsolution under a well-defined numerical evaluationfunction, this is difficult in NLG because of our poorunderstanding of how to computationally evaluatetexts for effectiveness.With regard to human expertise, some NLG sys-tems do indeed generate documents, uch as weatherreports and customer-service letters, which are cur-rently written by humans.
But many systems aresimilar to STOP in that they generate texts - -  such asdescriptions of software models (Lavoie et al, 1997)and customised escriptions of museum items (0ber-lander et al, 1998) - -  which are useful in principlebut are not currently writ l}en by humans, perhapsbecause of cost or response-time issues.3 KA  Techn iques  Used  in STOP3.1 Sort ingSorting is a standard KA technique for building uptaxonomies.
Experts in a sorting exercise are givena set of entities, and asked to divide the set intosubsets, and 'think aloud' into a tape recorder asthey do so.In STOP, we used sorting to build a classification ofsmokers.
We started off with an initial classificationwhich was motivated by the Stages of Change psy-chological theory (Prochaska nd diClemente, 1992):this divided smokers into the three categories of Pre-contemplators (not intending to quit anytime soon),Contemplators ( eriously considering quitting), andPreparers (definitely decided to quit, and soon).
Wewished to refine these categories, especially Precon-templator (which includes 67% of smokers in the Ab-erdeen area), and used sorting to do so.
The basicexercise consisted of giving a doctor three sets ofquestionnaires (a set from Precontemplators; a setfrom Contemplators; and a set from Preparers), andasking him or her to subdivide each set into sub-sets.
We repeated this exercise with three differentdoctors.The results of this exercise were complex, and thedoctors were not in full agreement.
After some anal-ysis, we proposed to them that we subdivide all threecategories on the basis of desire to quit.
Precon-templators in particular would be divided up intopeople who neither want nor intend to quit (Com-mitted Smokers); people who have mixed feelingsabout smoking but don't yet intend to quit (Clas-sic Precontemplators); and people who would like toquit but aren't intending to quit, typically becausethey don't think they'll succeed (Lacks Confidence).The three doctors agreed that this was a reasonablesubcategorisation, and we proceeded on this basis.In particular, we operationalised this categorisationas follows:o We added the question Would you like to stopif it was easy to the questionnaire.
Peoplewho answered No were put into the 'Commit-ted Smoker' category.
For people who answeredNot Sure or Yes, we looked at their decisionalbalance, that is the number of likes and dislikesthey had about smoking, and placed them intoLacks Confidence if their dislikes clearly out-numbered their likes, and Classic Precontem-plator otherwise.We defined different high-level schemas foreach of these categories; these schemas essen-tially specified which sections and (in somecases) paragraphs hould be included in theleaflet, but not tile detailed content of individ-ual paragraphs: Under these schemas; Commit-ted Smokers got short non-argumentative let-ters which gently reminded smokers of someof the drawbacks of smoking, and suggestedsome sources of information if the smoker everchanged his/her mind; Classic Precontempla-tors got letters which focused on the draw-backs of smoking; and Lacks Confidence smok-218ers got letters which focused on confidence-building and:deali.ng.~.with.
'barriers to :quitting(such as addiction or fear of weight gain).
Theexample leaflet shown in Figure 2, incidentally,is for a Lacks Confidence smoker.3.1.1 Eva luat ionAfter the clinical trial was underway, we attemptedto partially evaluate the sorting-derived categoriesby doing a statisticalanalysis of the differences be-tween smokers in the groups.
In other words, wehypothesised that if our categories were correct indistinguishing different types of smokers, then weshould observe differences in characteristics such asaddiction and confidence between the groups.
Ofcourse, this is not an ideal evaluation because it doesnot test the hypothesis that the different classes ofsmokers we proposed should receive different typesof leaflets; but this is a difficult hypothesis to testdirectly.In any case, our analysis uggested that the smok-ers in each group did indeed have different character-istics.
However, it also suggested that we might havedone as well (in terms of creating subgroups with dif-ferent characteristics) by subcategorising purely onthe Would you like to stop if it was easy question,and ignoring likes and dislikes about smoking.
Theanalysis also suggested that it might have been use-ful to subcategorise on the basis of addiction, whichwe did not do.
In fact during the sorting exercisesthe doctors did mention dividing into groups par-tially on the basis of the difficulty that individualswould have in quitting, but we did not implementthis.The statistical analysis also suggested some waysof possibly improving the content schemas.
Forexample, the analysis showed that the CommittedSmoker category included many light smokers whoprobably smoked for social reasons; it might havebeen useful to specifically address this in the STOPleaflets ('quit now, before you become addicted').In retrospect, then, the sorting exercise was use-ful in proposing ideas about how to divide Stagesof Change categories, and in new questions to asksmokers.
However, the process of .defining detailedcategory classification rules and content schemaswould have benefited greatly from statistical dataabout smokers in our target region.
In STOP wedid not have such data until after the clinical trialhad started (and smokers had returned their ques-tionnaires), by which time the system could not bechanged.
So it would have been difficult to basesmoker classification on statistical smoker data inSTOP; but certainly we would recommend such anapproach in projects where good data is available atthe outset.3.2 Th ink -a loud  Protocols- .The-detaited.coatent.-and" phrasing of :STOi :i letterswas largely based on think-aloud example sessionswith experts.
In these sessions, health professionalswould be given a questionnaire and asked to writea letter or leaflet for this person.
They were alsoasked to 'think aloud' into a tape recorder while theydid this, explaining their reasoning.
Again this is astandard expert-system technique for KA.3.2.1 Example...... -k simpte-exainpte=~:the think-aloud process is as fol-lows.
One of the doctors wrote a letter for a smokerwho had tried to quit before, and managed to stopfor several weeks before starting again.
The doc-tor made the following comments in the think-aloudtranscript:Has he tried to stop smoking before?
Yes,and the longest he has managed to stop - -he has ticked the one week right up to threemonths and that's encouraging in that hehas managed to stop at least once before,because it is always said that the peoplewho have had one or two goes are morelikely to succeed in the future.He also included the following paragraph in theletter that he wrote for this smoker:I see that you managed to stop smoking onone or two occasions before but have goneback to smoking, but you will be glad toknow that this is very common and mostpeople who finally stop smoking have hadone or two attempts in the past beforethey finally succeed.
What it does show isthat you are capable of stopping even for ashort period, and that means you are muchmore likely to be able to stop permanentlythan somebody who has never ever stoppedsmoking at all.After analysing this session, we proposed tworules:* IF (previous attempt o quit) THEN (message:more likely to succeed)e IF (previous attempt o quit) THEN (message:most people who quit have a few unsuccessfulattempts first)The final system incorporated a imle (based Off .
.
.
.several KA sessions, not just the above one) thatstated that if the smoker had tried to quit before,then the confidence-building section of the leaflet(which is only included for some smoker categories,see Section 3A) should include a short messageabout previous attempts to quit.
This messageshould mention length of previous cessation if this219was greater than one week; otherwise, it should men-tion recency of previous,,attempt if .this was within..:--the past 6 months.
The actual text generated fromthis rule in the example leaflet of Figure 2 isAlthough you don't feel confident hat youwould be able to stop if you were to try,you have several things in your favour.?
You have stopped before for more thana month.Note that the message (text)-produced by-the ac-tual STOP code is considerably simpler than the textoriginally written by the expert.
This is fairly com-mon, as is simplifications in the logic used to decidewhether to include a message in a leaflet or not.
Insome cases this is due to the expert having muchmore knowledge and expertise than the computersystem (Reiter and Dale, 2000, pp 30-36).
Con-sider, for example, the following extract from thesame think-aloud sessionThe other thing I notice is that he lives in\[Address\] which I would suspect is quite afew floors up and that he is probably get-ting quite puffy on the stairs .
.
.
and if hegets more breathless he'll end up being aprisoner in his own house because he'll beable to get down, but he won't be able toget up againThis type of reasoning perhaps requires too muchgeneral 'world knowledge' about addresses, stairs,and breathlessness to be implementable in a com-puter system.3.2.2 Eva luat ionAfterwards, we attempted to partially evaluate therules derived from think-aloud sessions by showingSTOP leaflets to smokers and other smoking profes-sionals, and asking for comments.
The results weremixed.
In terms of content, some smokers foundthe content of the leaflets to be useful and appropri-ate for them, but others said they would have likedto see different types of information.
For example,STOP leaflets did not go into the medical details ofsmoking (as none of the think-aloud expert-writtenletters contained such information), and while thisseemed like the right choice for many smokers, a fewsmokers did say that they would have liked to seemore medical information about smoking.
Reactionsto style were also mixed.
For example, based on KAsessions we adopted a positive tone and did not tryto scare smokers; and again this seemed right formost smokers, but some smokers said that a more'brutal' approach would be more effective for them.An issue which our experts (and other projectmembers) disagreed on was whether leaflets shouldalways use stmrt and simple sentences, or whethersentence length and complexity should be varied de-,pending, on the '  characteristics of'.the smoker.
Inthe STOP implementation we decided to always usemoderately simple sentences, and not vary sentencecomplexity for different users.
After the clinical trialstarted, we performed a small experiment to test thishypothesis.
In this experiment, we took a computer-generated leaflet and asked one expert (who be-lieved that short sentences with simple words shouldalways be used) to revise the computer-generated.leaflet o .make it as.~easy to  readas  possible, andanother expert (who believed that more complexsentences were sometimes appropriate, and suchsentences could in some cases make letters seemfriendlier and more understanding) to revise thecomputer-generated l aflet to make it friendlier andmore understanding.
The revisions made by the ex-perts were primarily microplanning ones (using NLGterminology) - -  that is, aggregation, ellipsis, lexicalchoice, and syntactic choice.
We then showed thetwo expert-revised leaflets to 20 smokers and askedthem which they preferred.
The smokers essentiallysplit 50-50 on this question (8 preferred the easy-to-read leaflet, 9 preferred the friendly-understandingleaflet, 3 thought both were the same).
This sug-gests that in principle it indeed may be useful tovary microplanning choices for different leaflet re-cipients.
We hope to further investigate this issue infuture research.Overall, a general finding of the evaluation wasthat there were many kinds of variations (includ-ing whether to include detailed medical information,whether to adopt a 'positive' or 'brutal '  tone, andhow complex sentences hould be) which were notperformed by STOP but might have increased leafleteffectiveness if they had been performed.
Thesetypes of variations were either not observed at allin the think-aloud sessions, or were observed in ses-sions with some experts but not others.In terms of KA methodology, perhaps the key les-son is similar to the one from the sorting sessions; thethink-aloud KA sessions were very useful in suggest-ing ideas and hypotheses about STOP content andphrasing rules, but we should have used other in-formation sources, such as smoker evaluations andsmall comparison experiments, to help refine andtest these rules.3.3 Other  techniquesSome of the other KA techniques we tried are brieflydescribed below.
These had less influence on thesystem than the sorting and think-aloud exercisesdescribed above.3.3.1 Exper t  Rev is ionWe gave experts leaflets produced by the STOPsystem and asked them to critique and revisethem.
This was especially useful in suggesting local220changes, such as what phrases or sentences hould Paragraph from Nov 97 KA exercise:be used to communicate .a.particular~message._ For  Finally, .if :yotL.~.do: make: an.
~atter~pt.t0 =stop,  youexample, an early version of the STOP system usedthe phrase there are lots of good reasons for stop-ping.
One of the experts commented uring a-re-vision session that the phrasing should be changedto emphasise that the reasons listed (in this particu-lar section of the STOP leaflet) were ones the smokerhimself had selected in the questionnaire he filledout.
This eventually led to the revised wording Itis encouraging that.you have_ many.good~ reasons/or :stopping, which is in the first paragraph of the ex-ample leaflet in Figure 2.Revision was less useful in suggesting largerchanges to the system, and after the clinical trialwas underway, one of our experts commented thathe might have been able to suggest larger changesif we had explained the system's reasoning to him,instead of just giving him a leaflet o revise.
In otherwords, just as we asked experts to 'think-aloud' asthey wrote leaflets, in order to understand their rea-soning, it would be useful if we could give the expertssomething like the computer-system 'thinking aloud'as it produced a leaflet, so they could understand itsreasoning.3.3.2 Group act iv i t iesBecause xperts often disagreed, we tried a variety ofactivities where a group of experts either discussedor collaboratively authored a leaflet, in the hopesthat this would help resolve or at least clarify con-flicting opinions.
This seemed to work best when weasked two experts to collaborate, and was less sat-isfactory with larger groups.
Several experts com-mented that the larger (that is, more than 2-3 peo-ple) group sessions would have benefited from morestructure and perhaps a professional facilitator.3.3.3 Smoker  feedbackAs mentioned in Section 3.2, we showed severalsmokers the leaflet STOP produced for them, andasked them to comment on the leaflet.
In addi-tion to its role as an evaluation exercise for otherKA techniques, we hoped that these sessions wouldin themselves give us ideas for leaflet content andphrasing rules.
This was again less successful thanwe had hoped.
Part of the problem was the smokersknew very little about STOP (unlike our expeits, who"were all familiar with the project), and-often madecomments which were not useful for improving thesystem, such as \[ did stop .for t0 -days til-my -daugh-ter threw a wobbly and then I wanted a cigarette andbought some and after smoking for over 30 years I'vetried acupuncture and hypnosis all to no avail.We were also concerned that most of our com-ments came from well-educated and articulate smok-ers (for example, university students).
It was harderto get feedback-from less well-educated smokers (forcould consider using nicotine patches.
For peoplelike yourself who smoke 10-20 cigarettes per day,patches double your chances of success if you aredetermined to stop.
You can get more informationon patches from your local pharmacist or GP.Paragraph from Feb 99 KA exercise:You.
smoke 1.1=20 .cigare?tes..a d y,.
:and, smokeyour -first cigarette within 30 minutes of waking.
Thesefacts suggest you are moderately addicted to nico-tine, and so you might get withdrawal symptoms fora time on stopping.
It would be worth consideringusing nicotine patches when you stop; these doublethe chances of success for moderately heavy smokerssuch as yourself who make a determined attempt ostop smoking.
Your pharmacist or GP can give youmore information about this.Figure 1: Paragraphs written by the same doctor forthe same smoker in different KA exercisesexample, single mothers living in public housing es-tates).
This led to the worry that the feedback wewere getting was not representative of the popula-tion of smokers as a whole.3.4 KA  and the Smoker  Quest ionna i reKA sessions also effected the smoker questionnaire(STOP'S input) as well as the text-generation com-ponent of the system.
We started with an initialquestionnaire which was largely based on a liter-ature review of previous projects, and then modi-fied it based on the information that experts used inKA sessions.
For example, the original questionnaireasked people who had tried to quit before what quit-ting techniques they had used in their previous at-tempts.
However, in KA sessions the experts eemedprimarily interested in previous experiences with oneparticular technique, nicotine replacement (nicotinepatches or gum); so we replaced the general questionabout previous quitting techniques with two ques-tions whichfocused on experiences with nicotine re-placement...... 4 .
.S tab i l i ty  o f  KnowledgeIn order to determine how stable the results of NiXsessions were, we asked one of our doctors to repeatin February 1999 a think-aloud exercise which hehad originally done in November 1997.
This exer-cise required examining and writing letters for twosmokers.
The letters and accompanying think-aloudfrom the 1999 exercise were somewhat different from221the letters and think-aloud from the 1997 exercise; invery general terms, the 19991etters_hadsimilar.
co econtent, but expressed the information differently, ina perhaps (this is very difficult to objectively mea-sure) more 'empathetic' manner.
An extract fromthis experiment is shown in Figure 1.We asked a group of seven smokers to compareone of the 1999 letters with the corresponding letterfrom the 1997 exercise.
Five preferred the 1999 let-ter; one preferred the 1997 letter; one thought bothwere similar.
Written comments from the smokerssuggested that they found the'1999 letter ~riendlierand more understanding than the 1997 letter.In summary, it appears that our experts maythemselves have been learning how to write effec-tive smoking-cessation leaflets during the course ofthe STOP project.
In retrospect this is perhaps notsurprising iven that none of them had written suchleaflets before the project started.5 Eva luat ion o f  KAAn issue that arose several times during the projectwas whether we could formally evaluate the effec-tiveness of KA techniques, in an analogous way tothe manner in which we formally evaluated the ef-fectiveness of STOP in a clinical trial which com-pared smoking-cessation rates in STOP and non-STOP groups.
Unfortunately, it was not clear to ushow to do this; how can one evaluate a develop-ment methodology such as KA?
In principle, perhapsit might be possible to ask two groups to developthe same system, one using KA and one not, andthen compare the effectiveness of the resultant sys-tems (perhaps using a STOP-like clinical trial), andalso engineering issues such as development cost andtime-to-completion.
This would be an expensive n-deavour, however, as it would be necessary to payfor two development efforts.
Also, the size of a clin-ical trial depends on the size of the effect it is tryingto validate, and a clinical trial which compared (forexample) the effectiveness of two kinds of computer-generated smoking-cessation leaflet might need tobe substantially larger (and hence more expensive)than a clinical trial that tested the effectiveness of acomputer-generated l aflet against a no-leaflet con-trol group.An even more fundamental problem is that in or-der for such an experiment to produce meaningful re-sults, it would be necessary to control for differences-in skill, expertise, enthusiasm.,-and \]suck between ~thedevelopment teams.
It might be necessary to re-peat this exercise several times, perhaps randomlychoosing which development team will use KA andwhich will not.
Of course, repeating the experimentN times will increase the total cost by a factor of N.As we did not have the resources to do the above,we elected instead to focus on the smaller 'informal'evaluations described above.
We also conducted a?
small.
:experiment where we asked, a"~gr~ottp :of-fivesmoking-cessation counsellors to compare lea/letsproduced by an early prototype of STOP with leafletsproduced by the system used in the  clinical trial.60% of the counsellors thought he clinical trial sys-tem's leaflets were more likely to be effective, withthe other 40% thinking the two systems producedletters of equal effectiveness.
This suggests (al-though does not prove) that the development ef-fort behind the .clinical_ trial system .improved leafleteffectiveness.
However, we cannot deterrnifie howmuch of the improvement was due to KA and howmuch was due to other development activities.6 Cur rent  WorkWe are currently in the process of analysing the re-sults of the clinical trial (which we cannot discuss inthis paper), to see if it sheds any light on the effec-tiveness of KA.
This is not straightforward becausethe clinical trial was not designed to give feedbackabout KA, but there nevertheless seem to be someuseful lessons here, which we hope to report in sub-sequent publications.We also are applying the KA techniques used inSTOP to a project in a different domain, to see howdomain-dependent our findings are.
A first attemptto do this, in a domain which involved giving adviceto university students, failed because the relevantexpert, who initially seemed very enthusiastic, didnot give us enough time for KA.
This highlights thepractical observation that KA requires a substantialamount of time from the expert(s), who must eitherbe paid or otherwise motivated to participate in thesessions.
In this case we could not pay the expert,but instead tried to motivate him by pointing outthat a successful system would be useful to him inhis job; this was not in the end sufficient motivationto get the expert to make time for KA in his (busy)schedule.After the above failure we switched to another do-main, giving feedback to adults who are taking basic-literacy courses.
In this domain, we are working witha company, Cambridge Training and Development,which is paying experts for their time when appro-priate.
This work is currently in progress.
One inter-esting KA idea which has already emerged from thiswork is observing tutors working with students (wedid not in STOP observe doctors discussing smok-ing with-their.patients); this~is.similar to the ethno-graphic techniques uggested by Forsythe (1995).7 Conc lus ionThe expert system community believes that it isworth interacting with experts using structured KAtechniques, instead of just informally chatting tothem or non-interactively studying what they do (as222happens in a traditional corpus analysis).
We be-lieve 'structured KA techniques ran also:he, useful indeveloping NLG systems, but they are not a panaceaand need to be used with some caution.In retrospect, KA was probably most effective inSTOP when used as a source of hypotheses aboutsmoker categories, detailed content rules, the phras-ing of messages, and so forth.
But ideally these hy-potheses hould have been tested and refined usingstatistical data about smokers and small-scale val-uation exercises .
.
.
.
.
:.- : .,Of course, a key problem in STOP was that wewere trying to produce texts (personalised smoking-cessation leaflets) which were not currently producedby humans; and hence there were perhaps no real hu-man experts on producing STOP texts.
It would beinteresting to see if structured KA techniques weremore effective for developing systems which pro-duced texts that humans do currently write, suchas weather forecasts and instructional texts.AcknowledgementsMany thanks to James Friend, Scott Lennox, Mar-tin Pucchi, Margaret Taylor, and all of the otherexperts who worked with us.
Thanks also to YajiSripada and the anonymous reviewers for their veryhelpful comments.
This research was supportedby the Scottish Office Department of Health un-der grant K/OPR/2/2/D318,  and the Engineeringand Physical Sciences Research Council under grantGR/L48812.ReferencesDiana Forsythe.
1995.
Using ethnography in thedesign of an explanation system.
Expert Systemswith Applications, 8(4):403-417.Eli Goldberg, Norbert Driedger, and Richard Kit-tredge.
1994.
Using natural-language process-ing to produce weather forecasts.
IEEE Expert,9(2):45-53.Benoit Lavoie, Owen Rainbow, and Ehud Re-iter.
1997.
Customizable descriptions of object-oriented models.
In Proceedings of the Fifth Con-ference on Applied Natural-Language Processing(ANLP-1997), pages 253-256.Kathleen McKeown, Karen Kukich, and JamesShaw.
1994.
Practical issues in automatic doc-ument generation.
In Proceedings of the Fourth, Conference on Applied Natural-Language Process-in9 (ANLP-1994), pages '7-14.Jon Oberlander, Mick O'Donnell, Alistair Knott,and Chris Mellish.
1998.
Conversation i the mu-seum: experiments in dynamic hypermedia withthe intelligent labelling explorer.
New Review ofHypermedia nd Multimedia, 4:11-32.James Prochaska and Carlo diClemente.
1992.Stages of Change in the Modification of Problem?
Beh'aviors.
Sage.Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale.
2000.
Building Nat-ural Language Generation Systems.
CambridgeUniversity Press.Ehud Reiter, Alison Cawsey, Liesl Osman, andYvonne Roff.
1997.
Knowledge acquisition forcontent selection.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Eu-ropean Workshop on Natural Language Genera-tion, pages 117-126, Duisberg, Germany..Ehud,  Reiter~ :.Roma .Robertson,~ and Liesl Os-man.
1999.
Types of knowledge required to per-sonalise smoking cessation letters.
In WernerHorn et al, editors, Artificial Intelligence andMedicine: Proceedings of AIMDM-1999, pages389-399.
Springer-Verlag.Ehud Reiter.
2000.
Pipelines and size constraints.Computational Linguistics.
Forthcoming.A.
Carlisle Scott, Jan Clayton, and Elizabeth Gib-son.
1991.
A Practical Guide to Knowledge Ac-quisition.
Addison-Wesley."
3 z2~m*,~, ; ?
;:~~ :E B0Em m0E.C~..~.~ ,~_~ ~8 8 BE= o=~_-?E  8.~o~- ,~ ~ = ~ o ~  ~_~ o_m"-- .
; : 3 0 3 3  ~ o~~ o~Eo~o__ .~ ~ ~,~ >,.~_ 000>"e) o-~o= 30.
-  -~ t,/~ I--.
e .~  oo- , - - -?
~o  ~_  .
~  ~ .
E ~  o~.
.
.
.=_a .o  ' o~",,,,I2, E ,  .
.
i : ,E :  . "
' : ?
">  "(D" "~0'-~ " "~ 'I~311"\[-" "O~ ~> E E '  '~  ~ >,~ .T:: ~ ?
"~ ?
~.
- .
-~m o =oe"~ = ?
- - ' .
o  ._o E~ ~- ,-.,~- 0 9 O.
.C:  ..: ~ e E ?.~_ E ~ 0 :~., 0 0 -E  E L.. ~ ~ ~" ~- ~ c:~ 0 ~.u ,~.-, ~ -ID 0 -0  '~  (D E ~ ::3 '~ o .~E.c  oo E c >,~.
>,~0 E~ o-o  = mE = ~0 =08.
~ ._O~o_O?=,~.~ 0 o '~ =~'~ ~ ~' -  o o..~ ~ ~=~_~ o_o '~ o?
~ ,oE~.o  ~ ~ = - -  .
.
.
.
.
0.
-~ .^~o~ ~o,?~'~ ~ ?
~ =o ~o ?
o "e~=~.?
:~ ~,e ,o -~=~ = ~-  ~T~8 @ @ ~ = E~O O "--..E O O ~ ~=Oo ~,  5~o-  _~ ' -  - _.m E ~ ~  = .~X 0 ~Y ,..~.
>., >'~, > 0"-- c0 -~  >' .0 -~ 0 0 0  E 0d.o .~ c~ ~ x ~.~ ~ ~ E~o~=-  ~ ~.~_.~_ >,F= o .~_ F=' F'~" .
~ _: 0~-  ~?
~ ~ .Noo~ .
~  ....0 L~ 9_~a D ~ E' E.-~ ~ > 00 o ~ _~E '~-  ~ "0~ O O CO > oE~ .
-~  >.~~>~.~ = , ~  o-oo  tO3 ~.
.E  J30 o ~ -o ~ = ~- O0 E >-  0_>.~ >-.= ~O O ~ O_ :3~ ~ o~~ ~ ~ ~-~-' ~ "0  0 I:: ..~?
-~ ~o &o  _ 8 ~-"0---- ~ 0 >,- ?
?~o ~~.
.~?
~ O.
.0  0..0 O3 E -~ 0"0  ~ ?
0 0 69~ ~..  ~ :::3 >., O ~ ~ ~O > > EL"~0 '.u ,r- .,C ..,~.~-  =Figure 2: Inside pages of an examplo STOP leaflet224
