Planning Word-order Dependent Focu s Assignments*Cornelia Endriss and Ralf KlabundeUniversity of HeidelbergCenter for Computational LinguisticsKarlstr.
2, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany{endriss, klabunde}@j anus.
gs.
uni-heidelberg, deAbstractWord order and accent placement are the primarylinguistic means to indicate focus/background struc-tures in German.
This paper presents a pipelined ar-chitecture for the generation of German monologueswith contextually appropriate word order and accentplacements for the realization of focus/backgroundstructures.
Our emphasis is on the sentence plan-ner that extends the respective propositional con-tents with discourse-relational features and decideswhich part will be focused.
Such an enriched se-mantic input for an HPSG-based formulator allowsword order variations and the placement of prenu-cleus and nucleus accents.
Word order is realizedby grammatical competition based on linear prece-dence (LP) rules which are based on the discourse-relational features.
Accent placement is realized bya syntax-driven focus principle that determines thefocus exponent and possible bearers of prenucleusaccents within the syntactically realized focus, theso-called focus domain.1 Focus  and  word  orderdeterminat ion  as  sentencep lann ing  tasksThis paper addresses aspects of the control of in-tonation belonging to the area of sentence planning\[Beale et al, 1998: Wanner and Hovy, 1996\].
Inmany languages, intonation can reflect pragmati-cally motivated conceptual decisions.
In particu-lar, focus/background structures (FBSs) reflect thespeaker's beliefs of the listener's information state.Since FBSs are realized in German primarily byword order dependent accent placements, focus plan-ning and word order determination are subtasks ofsentence planning.Due to the complex interactions anaong the vari-ous subtasks of sentence planning \[Hovy and Wan-* The research reported in this paper is funded by the DFG(German Science Foundation) in the priority program "Lan-guage Product ion" under grant lie 146T/3-I.
The authorswould like to thank the three anonymous referees for helpfulcomments  and suggestions.
All remaining mistakes are, ofcourse .
OUF o~vn.her, 1996\] proposed a blackboard-based sentenceplanner instead of a pipelined architecture.
How-ever, we will demonstrate - as a byproduct of ourapproach to focus planning - that in some cases thecomplexity of interactions can be realized by a tradi-tional top-down expansion process.
The intertwinedclause-internal organization of focus planning andword order determination for the realization of FBSsin German is obtainable by hierarchical planning.In what follows, we will first give examples of theinterplay of focus and word order in German.
Wewill present he architecture of our NLG system thatrealizes FBSs and describe in more detail hierarchi-cal sentence planning for FBSs.
By means of someexamples we are finally showing how word order de-pendent focus assignment works.2 The  in terp lay  o f  focus  and  wordorderThe pragmatic function of the FBS is to indicateto the listener of an utterance that a certain partof that utterance has been put into the foreground.The semantic information of this foregrounded part.has either been selected from a set of alternativebeliefs ascribed t.o the listener, or it is a revisionof certain beliefs (in case of contrastive focus), orthe focused phrase expresses 'new' information thelistener does not know or is not able to infer fromhis beliefs \[Halliday, 1967\].
1In all three cases the focus domain - the syntact i,"realization of a focus - contains the so-called focusexponent, i.e.
the bearer of the focal accent whichwe are identifying with the obligatory' nucleus ac-cent.
The existence of this accent indicates to thelistener that one part of the message conveys oneof these three functions.
In addition to the nucleusaccent optional prenucleus accents can exist as wellwhich do not have a discourse function in general.I This list of apparent ly  diverse functions hows that thereare possibly several phenomena which have been labeh!d as'focus' within the last 70 years or so.
There is an ongoingdiscussion in the l inguist ic community  whether these threefunctions can be traced back to one common principle (of.\[Schwarzschild, 1999\]).156but a prosodic function which goes back to diverseplanning phenomena .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
~.Three examples shall demonstrate the interplay ofword order with accent placement.
Example (3) isfrom our speech corpus of retellings of a trick film weanalyzed to obtain rules for accent placement.
Theother examples are variations of (3) showing that dif-ferent word order and accent placement correspondto different focus domains.
For reasons of simplicitywe are abstracting from specific pitch accents in thispaper.
Accent bearers are given, in capitals.
Fur :thermore, tile examples do not exhibit prenucleusaccents.
However, our rules for accent placementaccount for these accents as well.
The reason is thatprenucleus accents are determinable if the bearer ofthe nucleus accent is known.1.
er fiillt in die STEINebene runterhe falls in the stone plateau down'he is falling down to the stone plateau'2.
in die STEINebene fiillt er runter3.
er f6llt RUNter in die STEINebeneSemanticians pointed out that the key concept forword order and its consequences for accent place-ment is contextual boundedness ( ee, e.g., \[Jackend-off, 1972; Rooth, 1992\]).
However, their methodto simulate the different contexts by questions thesentence is able to answer tells us only somethingabout the number of possible loci.
For example,sentence (1) is able to answer five possible questions,depending on which constituent provides the answer(the contexts range from Which specific plateau is hefalling down to?
with focus on tile compound only toWhat's up?, focusing the whole sentence).
Example(2), however, with the locative PP in sentence-initialposition but identical accent placement is only ableto answer three questions.
Hence, (2) is contextu-ally more bounded than (1).
Example (3) exhibitingan extraposed unit clearly demonstrates the need foran FBS-related word order.
Extrapositions are thelinguistic means in German to separate sense units.Tile extraposition is used to mark two informationalunits: first, the person is falling down and secondthat the resulting place is the stone plateau.
Sinceinformational units coincide with prosodic phrases,each phrase conta ins  one nucleus accent so ti~at, twoseparate focus domains exist.From an NLG perspective xplaining word orderand accent placement by tile possibility to answercontext questions points to tile wrong direction.
Nei-ther should we generate isolated sentences nor arewe interested in focus ambiguities.
Rather we haveto determine a certain word order with a twofoldpurpose: first, it must be able to express a plannedfocus and second, it should guarantee coherence of~he text.To our knowledge, the problem of how word or-......
...der`~m?td.
:fc"cM`d?main?determin:`.~`ti~n``interact` has notbeen adressed in NLG research yet.
The SYNPHON-ICS formulator \[Abb et al, 1995\] that is able to gen-erate German single sentences.with FBSs does nottake into account he interplay between word orderand accent placement.
Instead word order is deter-mined by incremental syntactic onstruction; situa-rive factors have not been addressed in this system.The SPEAK!
system \[Teich et al, 1997\] also does notaccount_for the interplay.of word .order with.
accentplacement.
However, this system cannot be directlycompared with our approach, since the coverage ofphonological phenomena is completely different: Weare interested in FBSs in monologues, whereas theSPEAK!
system primarily accounts for the role of adialogue history to achieve the assignment of variousintonation patterns.Generally, the realized word order of an utter-ance is the result of its embedding into the situa-tive context, which finds expression in the use oflinear precedence (LP) rules for word order determi-nation during surface realization.
The idea is thatconstituents are ordered with respect o preferentialproperties expressed by these LP-rules.
From anNLG perspective the question is, then, where theinformation comes from that allows us to make useof these LP-rules?"
In our approach we derive theinformation necessary for the use of LP-rules froma discourse model that relates various aspects of adiscourse to one another.
Since we are generatingmonologues only the utterances previously producedby the program require consideration.Tile generation of monologues with appropriateword order and focus/background structures com-prises five major tasks:1.
The information to be conveyed must be se-lected and linearized by a content planner.2.
During sentence planning:(a) foci n-lllSt be determined, and(b) conditions for word order realization mustbe given.3.
During surface realization:(a) the loci must be mapped onto focus do-mains while tile sentences with their re-spective word order are fornmlated, and(b) the bearers of (pre)nucleus.accents withineach focus domain must be determined.Since this paper addresses sentence planning, we arefocusing on tasks (2a) and (21)) only.
We are leav-ing aside content planning (task 1) because the lit>earization problem does not affect FBS determina-lion.
The content planner provides the respectiw'propositions lhal will be extended during sentence157planning by pragmatic information for realizing theFBS.
The result of sentence planning functions .asinput for a competit ion-based fornmlator.
In or-der to demonstrate how the formulator is able torealize FBSs by means of grammatical competition,we will also outline the determination of focus do-mains, word order, and accent bearers in focus do-mains (tasks 3a and 3b).3 Architecture of FOGSThe five tasks mentioned above are realized in ourNLG system FOGS.
2 Currently the system generatesbrief retellings era trick film with each sentence hav-ing a contextually appropriate word order and focus-relevant prosody with the context provided by thediscourse model.
Figure (1) shows the architectureof the system.
Sentence planning takes into consid-eration the current state of a discourse model.
Whenconstructing the input for the formulator, the dis-course model will be continuously updated so thatthe word order of the currently planned sentence iscoherent with the word order of the preceding sen-tence.
Word order relevant information is encodedby discourse relational features of discourse refer-ents.The HPSG-based formulator realizing the sen-tences uses weighted LP-rules for word order de-termination that take into account the discourse-relational features in the semantic input.
Bearers of(pre)nucleus accents within focus domains are deter-mined by a focus principle.4 Sentence planning in FOGSThe planning operators creating the input for theformulator cause the transition to new states of thediscourse model.
The initial state of the discoursemodel is characterized by the lack of any informationon the events to be conveyed.
Correspondingly inthe goal state all events are represented.Our discourse model is a knowledge store consist-ing of two major registers.
It consists of a DiscourseRepresentation Structure (DRS.
cf.
\[Kamp andReyle, 1993\]) (R. I'() with sets of mutually knowndiscourse referents R and DRS-conditions h, and aset Ref of referential movements assigned to the dis-course referents, lI/eferential movements det.erminehow discourse referents "are passed on from one sen-tence to tile next one.
H is a pair (RA, RN} consist-ing of referents of tile directly preceding utteranceand referents of all-other previous utterances.
Sincereferential movements are typically linked with iden-tifiability conditions for discourse referents, ttle lat-ter can be derived front the former.
New referentsare declared as being unidentifiable for the listener.2Not to be confused with FOG, a system that generatesweather forecasts\[Goldberg t t a/.. 199-I\].
Foc;s is the acronymfor "focus generation system'.% \[ discourse r lational q f~res refined plan q focu~ground \[} de leTt ion  Ipragmatically enrichedinputLemma SelectorlemmasFormulator \]Prosodically annotatedmonologueConienl Plannerlinearizalioniabs~aci planSentence PlannerIFigure 1: Architecture of FOGSwhile re-established ones should typically be identi-fiable by a definite description.
Maintained referentsare usually anaphorically identifiable.
Furthermore,alternative sets All are determined by sortal restric-tions.
Discourse referents function as alternatives ifthey are stored in the discourse model ill R and areinstances of the same superordinated concept.
Analogously, concepts are alternatives if they are storedin the discourse model in K and possess the samedirectly superordinated concept.
During planningthe discourse model will be continuously updated.Updating comprises the insertion of new discoursereferents into RA.
shifting referents from t?.-I to I5.\.and, in case of referential re-establishment, shiftingreferents from RN to RA.
Furthermore, new \[)FISconditions will be introduced into )Y, and the ref-erential movement conditions are updated, resultingalso in new alternative sets and identifiability con-ditions Id.W~ use a hierarchical planner \[Sacerdot.i, .1974\].The content planner provides the abstract plan.Plan refinement during sentence planning con-sists of the proposition-wise introduction of oper-ators for the discourse relational features and fo-cus/background determination.
The result of apply-ing the operators to tile single propositions functionsas nput Io the formulator.1584.1 D iscourse- re la t iona l  features  4.2 Focus and background determinat ionExtending the propositions by.-disc~otrrsecelationat ......... We~lreadypointed~out.t.h~t-.foGusing-asemanticrep-.features makes intensive use of the discourse model.Three discourse relational .factors influencing wordorder are realized as plan operators: topic assign-ment, referential movement, and identifiability ofdiscourse referents by the listener.Topic ass ignment :  Topics establish anaboutness-relation between a familiar discoursereferent and the sentential predication.
We adopt:the conditions for tooic:assignment.-:propoSed " in '\[Klabunde and Jansche, 1998\].
Topic candidatesmust be identifiable discourse referents and theyshould be as high on a so-called topic acceptancescale as possible.
According to such a scale referentsthat are currently lit up constitute the best topiccandidates.
In our approach, these are referentsfrom the intersection of RA and the referents ofthe current event proposition to be realized.
Thetopic acceptance scale is mirrored in the successiveapplication of operators for topic assignment.
Forexample, if several referents as candidates exist,a discourse referent will be chosen that is markedas anaphorically identifiable and referentiallymaintained:topicAssignment (Event ,Eventl) :PKE: \ [ (RA f7 EventRs = Topics),E 6 Topics,anaphId(E) 6 Id,refMaintained(E) 6 Id\]EFF: \[topic(E) U Event = Eventl\]DEL : \[\]The LP-rule referring to topic ass ignment  is top ic< :focus, i.e.
topics should precede loci.Re ferent ia l  movement :  Referential movementcomprises the picking up of discourse referents frompreviously uttered information and the introduc-tion of new referents, respectively.
If referentsfrom the directly preceding utterance are picked up,these referents are maintained.
Referents from allother previous utterances are re-established.
Flef-erential movement influences word order becausemaintained referents are usually realized before re-established ones, and re-established ones precedenew referents, as indicated by the following LP-rule:re fMa inta ined  < re fReEstab l i shed  < newIdent i f iab i l i ty :  With respect to identifiabilityof discourse referents, we distinguish betweenanaphoric identifiability, identifiabilit.y by a definitedescription, and referents that.
are non-identifiablefor the listener.
Identifiability influences word or-der as well because anaphorically identifiable ref-erents are usually realized before dethfites andthose precede non-identifiable referents: anaphld <de:finiteld < nonId.resentation is based on one of three functions: theselection of beliefs from a set of alternatives, con-trasting a belief with a different one, and indicatingnew information.
These three functions have alsobeen verified in our corpus of story tellings.
Each ofthese functions has been treated separately in vari-ous systems (see, e.g., \[Prevost and Steedman, 1993\]for contrastive focus in a concept-to-speech system,.\[Thetme.
:et _al.,..:1997.\].
for, n .ew :in.formation i a .data.-.to-speech system, and \[Blok and Eberle, 1999\] foralternative semantics in machine translation), buta single and comprehensive approach as not beenproposed yet.
However, structure and content ofour discourse model allow us to determine FBSs bymeans of planning operators as well.
Different pre-conditions for the focus determining operator esultin the successive check whether one of these threefunctions is satisfied.
First it is checked whether theproposition to be conveyed contains any informa-tion that is new for the listener.
New informationis what is not stored in the DRS K of the discoursemodel, a If these preconditions are not satisfied it ischecked whether parts of the proposition belong toalternatives presumed by the listener.
Only if thesepreconditions fail a contrasting focus is realizable.Contrasting focus is realized if some property in Kof an activated iscourse referent in RA contradictsa property in the semantic input under considera-tion, provided the same sortal restriction holds asfor the alternatives.5 Sur face  rea l i za t ion  as grammat ica lcompet i t ionThe resulting input for grammatical competition isa blend of semantic and pragmatic information.
Forexample, the input for realizing example (1) is asfollows:focus: \[fallingDowa(e,m), into(e,s), stonePlateau(s),definiteld(s), refReEstablishment(s)\]ground: \[man(m), anaphld(m), refMaintenance(m),topic(m)\]The constants m, s, and e are referents for a spe-cific man, stone plateau, and tile evenl of fallingdown.
The values of the features :focus and groundrepresent he focused part of the proposition and?
the background, respectively.
While tile realizationof the focus domain is the task of converting thecomplete focus into one phrase, word order will bedetermined by LP-rules that pick up the pragmati-call2,' motivated literals on topichood, identifial)ility,and referential movement.aThis implies that we are ignoring any inferential capabil-ities in the current system.159As already mentioned, the notion of grammati-cal competition is necessary to account, for the in-.teraction of syntactic and phonological constraintson focus/background structures.
The idea to usea competition model to explain word order varia-tions in German is not new (of.
\[Steinberger, 1994;Uszkoreit, 1987\]).
The advantage of grammaticalcompetition compared to a non-competitive use ofprecedence rules (as in standard HPSG) is its flex-ibility.
A competition model allows to take syntac-tic as well as semantic and pragmatic preferencesinto consideration, and to determine'the acceptabil-ity of a sentence with respect to the situative con-text.
The usual approach is to formulate preferencerules which have a certain impact on the naturalnessof constituent orders.
Some of these preference rulesare stronger than others.
The number of preferencerules which are satisfied or violated, in combinationwith the relative importance of the different factors,is responsible for the varying degree of naturalnessof word order variations.
Analogously to this ideawe use weighted LP-rules as well which are basedon the planned discourse-relational features.Focus domains are realized by means of a focusprinciple.
Applying the focus principle results inthe projection of a focus feature to the dominatingnode.
Together with the standard HPSG-principlesthe focus principle confines the successive applica-tion of the head-complement, head-filler, and head-adjunct schemata to two lemmas in order to buildup phrases and sentences.
The focus principle con-strains the placement, of prenucleus and nucleus ac-cents in view of the syntactic status of the phrasalsigns.
It is based on the following empirically vali-dated regularities with respect to the placement ofthe nucleus and prenucleus accents:1. in phrases with a head-daughter and adjunct-daughter the focus exponent is in the head-daughter and a prenucleus accent is in theadj unct-daughter.2.
for phrases with a head-daughter andcomplement-daughter holds:(a) if the head-daughter is a verbal projec-tion, the focus exponent is in the head-daughter and a prenucleus accent is in thecomplement daughter.
(b) else the accents are in the complement--daughter.The regularities underlying the nucleus and prenu-cleus accent placement have been formulated on thebasis of an analysis of a story telling corpus.
Thetellings have been analyzed w.r.t, the position ofpitch accents and their indication of possible fo-cus domains.
Two resuhs of \[his analysis shall hememioned here: First, the analysis howed that theoverwhelming number of focus domain determina-gEon can.be explained.by.syntax-based.projectionrules (see, e.g., \[Gfinther, 1999; Ladd, 1996\] for someproposals) underlying our focus principle.
Second,given the three basic pragmatic functions of FBSs,primarily information that was new to the listenerhas been accented.
Contrastiveness was confned tofocal accents on certain closed-class items such asdeterminers.
4While focus domains  are realized by a syntacticprinciple, word order will be realized by means ofweighted-LP-ru les.
Since especially the LP-rule?
top ic  < focus requires information on focused con-stituents focus determination must be completed be-fore word order will be realized.
We introduced thenecessary LP-rules in section 4.1.Based on these LP-rules word order will be deter-mined by means of the operation of domain unionproposed in \[Reape, 1994\].
If the head or the daugh-ter is a verbal projection the domain of the phrasewill be received by domain union.
Verbal projec-tions are of interest for word order realization be-cause only in this case the LP-rules will be evalu-ated.
Otherwise the domains will be combined ac-cording to the directionality feature DIR of the headand a MOD-DIR feature of an adjunct.
The for-mer determines the order of head and complement,while the latter is responsible for the order of ad-juncts and their modified element.
Since in this caseno LP-rules have to be evaluated, word order deter-ruination is a trivial task.6 Resu l tsThe system just described produces brief retellingsof one episode of the aforementioned trick film basedon a knowledge base representing the single eventsand a discourse model.
Depending on the content ofthe discourse model word order of the respective sen-tences and focus assignments differ.
We are givingone detailed example showing the different status ofthe discourse model and its influence on the realiza-tion of word order and the FBS.
After that sometexts FOGS is able to generate are presented.Let the content of the discourse model be as fol-lows:RAo = @RNo = {s ,m,d , .
.
.
}A'O = {desertPlateau(d), stonePlateau(s),littleMan(m), fallingDowll(e,m), ...}Refo = {refMaintenance(s),refReEstablishme~t(m),...}Alto = {alt(stonePlatea,(s), {desertPlateau(d)}),alt(in(e,s),{on(e,s)})}Id 0 = {definiteld(m), definiteld(s),...}.1Note that determiners as bearers of nucleus accents donot const i tute  a problem for our system.
In this case onlythe identif iabi l i ty condit ion belongs to the focus, which willI.~,.
mapped ont,~ a corresponding lemma.160The content planner deterlninesfallingDown(e,.m) , - in (e , .
s ) ,  s~oneP&ateau(-s) ,.l i t t leHan(m)  as the proposition to be conveyed.The operator for topic assignment marks s assentence topic because it i s  the currently bestavailable topic according to the topic acceptancescale.
Referential movement is as follows: since shas been declared in the discourse model as beingreferentially maintained, it will be maintained in thefirst utterance as well.
Discourse referent m was re-established and, therefore, will become referentiallymaintained.
Since referent S wasidentifiable by /idefinite description for the listener and is the topic,it remains identifiable by definite means, resulting ina definite NP.
Referent m was identifiable by definitemeans and becomes anaphorically identifiable.Focus and background are determined as follows:first it is checked whether any information in theproposition is new to the listener.
Since all liter-als from the propositional content also exist in if,nothing can be focused due to being 'new' informa-tion.
However, there are two literals in the propo-sitional content with explicitly represented alterna-tives.
Since both literals can be linguistically real-ized as one constituent (as a PP), only one focusdomain and one focus exponent will appear.The resulting utterance is in die STEINebene fa'llter runter with the locative PP in clause-initial posi-tion and accent on the noun-noun compound.
ThePP has been fronted because it receives the best eval-uation w.r.t, the three discourse-relational features.The compound functions as focus exponent becausethe whole PP constitutes the focus domain, which ismanaged by the focus principle.Taken all effects of the planning operators to-gether, the updated discourse model is as follows:R~, = {~,~}RNI  = {d .
.
.
.
}hl = NoRef l  = {re fReEstab l  i shed(s )  ,re fMa intenoa lce  (m) , .
.
.
}Ale1 = AltoIdl = {anaph Id(m) ,  de : f in i te Id (s ) , .
.
.
}The next proposition to be conveyed isi itt leman (m), walk ingAround (e i, m).
T henew senterlce topic will be m. Anaphoric identi-fiability and referential maintenance of referent rawould usually result in keeping these .conditionsfor the linguistic realization so that a pronoun willbe generated.
However, the topic shift results ina change to identifiability by a definite descriptionfor m in the following sentence.
The event literalis focused because it provides new information,resulting in the VP as focus domain.
According tothe focus principle, the prefix receives the nucleusaccent.
5 The resulling utterance is Das Ma',mchen:; \Ve adop l  an approach  to the  gonerat ion  ,~f separab le  pre-fix verbs  proposed  by \[Le\[,+'t h. 1992\] that  is based  on ad junc -161Muff umHER (the little man walks aROUND).Exemplary brief retellings of the, film.epi~ode:gen- ..erated by FOGS are given below.
Note that the singlesentences always express the same respective propo-sitional content.
What ..differs are the word orderand/or the position of the nucleus accent.
These dif-ferences in word order and accent placement are dueto the varying content of the discourse model, thedifferent possibilities for focus determination, andthe effects of the applicable planning operators forreferential movement, opic assignment, and identi- .. .
?
_ _ .
,  .
, .
.fiability.
"1.
In die Steinebene fa'llt es runter auf der Suchenach Wasser.Das Miinnnchen Muff umHER.PlStzlich schieflen STEINttirme aus der Erdeauf.Die Steinttirme rheben das MANNchen.A rough translation is:While looking for water it is falling down tothe STONE plateau.
The little man is runningaROUND.
Suddenly stone pillars are shootingup from the GROUND.
The stone pillars lift upthe little MAN.2.
Es fiillt auf der Suche nach Wasser in die" STEINebene runter.Es hluft umHER.PlStzlich schieflen aus der ERde Steintiirmea@Die Steintiirme rheben das Mii'NNchen.3.
Es fiillt auf der Suche nach Wasser m dieSTEINebene runter.Es lh'uft umHER.PlStzlich schieflen STEINtiirme aus der Erdeauf.Die Steint(irme rheben das M,4"NNchen.4.
Es fSllt auf der Suche nach WASser m dieSteinebene runter.Es 15uft umHER.Pldtzlich schieflen STEINt(irme aus dcr l\]rdca uf.Dic Stemtiirme rhebeu das ,U:i'N:Vche,7 Summary  and  out lookSentence planning for the realization of fo-cus/background structures in German comprises the-determination of .discourse relational.features forthe realization of an appropriate word order andthe determination of the focus of the respectivepropositions.
With this information available acompetition based formulator is able to realize thefocus donlain, word order, and accent bearers withinthe focus domain.t ion  and  compat i l ) le  wit h our  fi)cus pr inc ip le .While hierarchical planning of discourse relationalfeatures for the use of LP-rules during surface real-ization seems to be a promising approach for wordorder dependent focus/background determination,additional constraints on word order are requiredto block overgeneration.
The three LP-rules 6 arenecessary, but no sufficient means to determine freeword order in general.
Next to these discourse-related rules there are syntactic and semantic re-strictions on word order as well.
However, due totheir discourse-related nature, the conditions for us-ing our LP-rutes can be-derived from the.
discoursemodel.
Syntactic and semantic onstraints on wordorder do not require a discourse model.To summarize, the combination of hierarchicalcontent planning with grammatical competition iview of a focus principle seems to be a promisingapproach for focus/background determination.Re ferencesAbb, B; G/inther, C.; Herweg, M.; Lebeth, K.;Maienborn, C. and Schopp, A.
(1995) Incrementalsyntactic and phonological encoding - an outlineof the SVNPHONICS-Formulator.
In: G. Adorniand M. Zock (Eds.)
Trends in Natural LanguageGeneration.
Berlin: Springer.Beale, S.; Nirenburg, S.; Viegas, E. & Wanner,L.
(1998) De-Constraining Text Generation.
Pro-ceedings of the Ninth International Workshopon Natural Language Generation.
Niagara-on-the-Lake, Canada; 48-57.Blok, P. & K. Eberle (1999) What Is the Alter-native?
The Computation of Focus Alternativesfrom Lexical and Sortal Information.
In: P. Bosch& R. van der Sandt (Eds.)
Focus.
Linguistic,Cognitive, and Computational Perspectives.
Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press; 105-120.Goldberg, E.; Driedger, N. & Kittredge, R.
(19!
)4)Using Natural-Language Processing to ProduceWeather Forecasts.
IEEE Expert, 9 (2): 45-53.G/inther, C. (1999) Prosodic und gpraehproduktzonT~bingen: Niemeyer.ttalliday.
M.A.K.
(1967) Notes on transitivily andtheme in English.
Journal of Lmguzstics.
3: 199-244.Hovy, E. & L. Wanner (1996) Managing SentencePlanning Requirements.
Proceedings of the ECAIWorkshop Gaps and Bridges: New Directions inPlanning and Natural Language Generation.Jackendoff, R. (1972) Semantic .Intewretation tnGenerative Grammar.
Cambridge, Mass.
: MITPress.Kamp.
t1.
& U. I~eyle (1993) From Discourse toLogic.
I)ordrecht: l(luwer.6topic < focus :  refMainta ined < refRegstabl ished <new: anaphId < def initeId < nonIdKlabunde, R. & M. Jansche (1998) Abductive rea-soning for syntactic realizatiot|:.Proceedings of the.Ninth International Workshop on Natural Lan-guage Generation.
Niagara-on-the-Lake, Canada;108-117.
-~Ladd, D.R.
(1996) Intonational Phonology.
Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press.Lebeth, K. (1992) Zur Analyse yon trennbarenlokalen Prdfizverben in der HPSG.
Stuttgart, IBMGermany, IWBS Report 224.Prevost, S.. & M. Steedman (1993) Generating Con-textually Appropriate Intonation.
Proceedings ofthe Sixth Conference of the European Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics.Utrecht; 332-340.Reape, M. (1994) Domain Union and Word OrderVariation in German.
In: J. Nerbonne, K, Net-ter & C. Pollard (eds.)
German in Head-DrivenPhrase Structure Grammar.
CSLI Lecture Notes;46.
Stanford, CA: CSLI; 151-197.Rooth, M. (1992) A Theory of Focus Interpretation.Natural Language Semantics I; 75-116.Sacerdoti, E. (1974) Planning in a hierarchy of ab-straction spaces.
Artificial Intelligence, 5; 115-135.Schwarzschild, R. (1999) GIVENness, AvoidF andother Constraints on the Placement of Focus.
Toappear in: Natural Language Semantics.Steinberger, R. (1994) Treating 'free word order'in German.
Proceedings of the 15th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics (COL-ING).
Kyoto.Teich, E.; E. Hagen; B. Grote & J. Bateman (1997)From comnmnicative context o speech: Integrat-ing dialogue processing, speech production andnatural anguage generation.
Speech Commumca-tion, ~1; 73-99.Theune, M.; E. Klabbers; J. Odijk ~ J.R. de Pi-jper (1997) Computing prosodic properties in adata-to-speech system.
Proceedings of the work-shop on Concept-to-Speech Generation 5'.t/stems.ACL/EACL, Madrid; 39-45.Uszkoreit, tt.
(1987) Word Order and ConstttucntStructure m German.
CSLI Lecture Notes.Chicago: University of Chicago Press.Wanner, L. & E. How (1996) The HeahhDoc Sen-tence Planner.
Proceedings of the Sth lntcrna-tional Workshop on Natural Language Genera-twn.
Herstmonceux Castle, 1-10.162
