From Elementary Discourse Units to Complex OnesHolger  SchauerComputational Linguistics DivisionFreiburg UniversityD-79085 Freiburg, Germanys c\]~auer@coling, uni-freiburg, deAbst ractCoherence relations have usuallybeen taken to link clauses and largerunits.
After arguing that somephrases can be seen as discourseunits, a computational ccount forsuch phrases is presented that inte-grates urface-based criteria with in-ferential ones.
This approach can begeneralized to treat intra-sententialcue-phrases.
Since cue-phrases arenot always present, referential rela-tions between nominal expressionsare additionally used to derive atext's discourse structure.
:1 In t roduct ionIt is widely acknowledged that texts are notjust collections of sentences, but have a struc-ture of their own.
There has been substan-tial work in order to account for the differentphenomena of discourse structure by apply-ing theories of coherence relations, e.g.
(Mannand Thompson, 1988; Asher, 1993) amongothers.
Coherence relations represent rich se-mantic linkage (like Cause t or Evaluation)between text segments of varying size.However, what the minimmn size of textsegments to relate should be, is still left opento debate.
As common approaches arguethat coherence relations relate events or situ-ations (e.g.
(Hobbs et al, 1993; Asher, 1993))and that such events are usually introduced1Coherence relations in this paper are basicallytulc~n from taken Rhetorical Structure Theory (Mannand Thompson, 1988) will appear emphasized andCapitalized.through the means of verbs, it has becomestandard practice to consider clauses to bethe appropriate size for elementary discourseunits.
It has, however, also been observed(Vander Linden and Martin, 1995; Grote etal., 1997) that sometimes phrases may serveas very condensed forms to express elaboratecontents.
Recently, (Schauer and Hahn, 2000)provided a more detailed analysis when prepo-sitional phrases (PPs) may serve as elemen-tary discourse units.Cursorily viewed, the claims of another e-cent study stand in contrast to the idea ofintra-clansal discou~e units: (Schauer, 2000)examined the interplay of coreferential ex-pressions and discourse structure and con-cluded that referential relations are a goodindicator of the discourse structural configu-rations in case the units examiued are entiresentences.
This poses the question whethernot entire sentences are the appropriate grainsize for elementary discourse units.I will argue that these results - i.e.
the dif-ferent levels of granularity for discourse units- are not incompatible with each other.
Theapproach used in (Schauer and Hahn, 2000)to derive the coherence relation governing aprepositional phrase neatly carries over to thecomputation of coherence relations signaledby sentence-internal cue-phrases.
This thenallows an integration with the algorithm us-ing referential relations that was proposed in(Schauer, 2000).2 Ad juncts  as  D iscourse  Un i tsThe question at what size of textual expres-sions one should start looking for discourseunits has not been suftlciently answered yet.46(Mann and Thompson, 1988), for example,state that "Unit size is arbitrary, but the di-vision of the text should be based on sometheory-neutral c assification.
That is, for in-teresting results, the units should have inde-pendent functional integrity.
In our analy-ses, units are basically clauses \[...\]" \[p.248\].It has been noted previously that sometimesphrases already seem to have enough "func-tional integrity" to give some "interesting re-sults", however, until recently there has beenno detailed proposal what kind of phrasesshould be considered.Consider the following (German) example: 2(1) a. Mit dem P6LXZ-A versucht Elite-group neue Kunden zu gewinnen.\[With the P6LXZ-A - -  Elitegrouptries to attract new customers.\]b. Mit einem PCI-Slot bietet das Mother-board wenig Platz fiir Erweiterungen.\[With one PCI slot (only) - -  the moth-erboard provides only little space forextensions.\]A straightforward coherence analysis withrelations from RST (Mann and Thompson,1988) takes (l-b) as a single unit and linksit to (l-a), probably via an Evaluation re-lation.
Paraphrasing sentence (l-b) reveals,however, a plausible decomposition i to twointerdependent discourse units:(2) a.
The motherboard has one PCI slot,b.
so it provides only little space for ex-tensions.Clause (2-a) gives an Explanation for thesubordinate clause (2-b).
This might be at-tributed to the impact of the cue word "so"in (2-b).
More generally, it has been claimedthat whenever an implicit coherence relationcan be made explicit by a paraphrase incor-porating a specific cue word, then this coher-ence relation can always be assumed to hold.
3So, from a methodological point of view it2In the following, I will summarize the argumentsfrom (Schauer and Hahn, 2000) that focus on prepo-sitional phrases.S"As a test for the presence of an implicit connec-tion it can be required that the connection could havebeen explicit... "(Martin, 1992, p.184)cannot be justified to analyze Sentence (2)as being composed of two elementary units,while the prepositional phrase "with one PCIslot" should be an indistinguishable part ofthe whole Sentence (l-b).Obviously, not all kind of phrases may serveas elementary units.
As a first criterion to de-termine whether a phrase is a discourse unit,we propose to consider only those phrasesthat are not syntactically mandatory com-plements of their governing syntactic head.Complements are assumed to be specified interms of subcategorization frames, valencyhsts, etc.
Adjuncts are phrases which donot match such a complement specification oftheir governing syntactic head.In Example (l-b), while it is both possi-ble to omit the optional prepositional phrase"with one PCI slot" and to decompose thesentence such that the prepositional phraseturns into a proper clause, this is only hardlypossible for any other phrase in this example,say the subject "the motherboard".The second major criterion operates at thesemantic level.
Semantic specifications of lex-emes, independent of the specific semantictheory one subscribes to, are confined to "typ-ical" properties, e.g., events are character-ized by agents, patients, instruments, loca-tions, time frames, etc.
The interpretationof phrases referring to these attributes canbe taken care of by straightforward semanticinterpretation mechanisms.
As long as theinterpretation makes reference only to such"typical" properties it is not necessary to con-sider such phrases as discourse units.
Butwhen an analyst thinks that the interpreta-tion involves (additional) non-typical, unpre-dictable information, coherence relations maycapture their value-adding meaning.
4 E.g.,the prepositional phrase of (l-a) only refersto a such typical property, namely the instru-ment of an action.
This typicality considera-tion does not carry over to an "explanation"of events, which is the interpretation of "with4The interpretation of complements is assumed toinvolve only these typical attributes.
The interpreta-tion of adjuncts, in contrast, may refer to both typicaland non-typical information.47one PCI slot" from Sentence (l-b).Ultimately, however, there is also a thirdcriterion that needs to be considered: namely,that a coherence relation can be found bywhich the phrase may be related to the re-mainder of the clause it occurs in (Marcu etal., 1999).
We propose that this search foran applicable coherence relation may be per-formed by trying to paraphrase the phraseand its matrix clause in such a way that itresults in two clauses that are related by acue-phrase.
(Schauer and H~.hn, 2000) evaluated theapplicability of the criteria by' hmnan anno-tators using two corpora.
We found that11.0% of the prepositional phrases in a Ger-man text corpus can be seen as discourse unitsand 8.0% in an English control set.
ThesePPs are responsible for 14.8% and 12.1%, re-spectively, of the relations fomad in the texts.The discourse units triggered by prepositionalphrases always occur in satellite (i.e.
subordi-nate) position, which is not surprising, giventheir status of optional information.3 F rom Prepos i t iona l  Phrases  toCoherence  Re la t ionsFor an automated coherence analysis, we willbasically take the preposition as a trigger forcomputing a coherence relation.
To makethis discussion more concrete, it is embed-ded in the framework of SYNDIKATE, a textanalysis ystem under development in our lab(Hahn and Romacker, 1999).3.1 Semant ic  In terpretat ionCrucial for the discussion here is that the syn-tactic analysis provided by the system allowsto distinguish betweenadjuncts and manda-tory complements: for Sentence (l-b), a de-pendency relation ppadj between the prepo-sitional phrase and its governing syntactichead is derived, that results from the valencyspecification for the main verb "bietet" (pro-vide).
For computing a semantic interpre-tation s, the corresponding conceptual corm-lares of the content words are then checkedSWe assume the framework of description logics(Woods and Sclmaolze, 1992).for role compatibility.In Example (l-b), the major interpretationconstraints derive fzom the main verb "bi-etet" (provide) which is represented by theconcept PROVIDE.
It has three major concep-tual roles, PROVIDE-PATIENT, PROVIDE-CO-PATIENT, and INSTRUMENT.
The  PROVIDE-PATIENT and PROVIDE-CO-PATIENT roles canbe filled by some instance of MOTHERBOARDand SPACE, respectively.Focusing on the analysis of the PP, eachpreposition specifies allowed semantic rela-tions (Romacker et al, 1999).
In the caseof "mit" (with) they allow an interpretationin terms of the conceptual INSTRUMENT role,so the corresponding role of PROVIDE is frilledwith PCI-SLOT.
This causes additional con-ceptual interpretation processes: a productionrule checks whether the filler of the INSTRU-MENT role may be a PART-OF the concep-tual correlate of the syntactic subject, link-ing SPACE and MOTHERBOARD.
Along theline, a HAS-PART-STATE is established thatcorresponds to the situation that "the moth-erboard has one PCI  slot".
63.2 D iscourse  In terpretat ionAs discussed above, a preposition does notalways signal a coherence relation.
Also, apreposition may give rise to different coher-ence relations depending on context, so onecan not simply paste a label of "the" coher-ence relation into the representation.
Instead,the computation of coherence relations is per-formed by testing relation-specific constraintson the configuration of the text-knowledgebase resulting from semantic interpretation.Following standard practice, coherence rela-tions are assumed to connect situations.
So,we try to derive the relation between theconceptual correlate PROVIDE of the mainverb and the inferred state HAS-PART-STATE,which stems from the conceptual interpreta-tion of the prepositional phrase.6In case that the sentence ~he mo~he.rboard hasone PCI slot" would have been parsed, the PART-OFrelation would have been derived via a productionrule operating on the interpretation of the main verb"has".
Thus, establishing the HAS-PART-STATE in F.,x-ample (l-b) yields a uniform analysis.48EXPLANATION.
12-~  HAS-PERT-STA~.
12SATELLITE 'HAS-i~UKP OSE~ Fs-P~r<4>~_co _P~TiENT-~ PCI" SLOT" 3 ir ' ' lFigure 1: Discourse Interpretation for Example (l-b)The preposition "mit" (with) may signal anExplanation.
The basis for computing this re-lation consists in recognizing that the matrixclause gives some kind of evaluation: namely,that the "motherboard provides only littlespace.".
The degree expression SPACE, withits associated negative POL--MARKER, (Staaband Hahn, 1997) is the trigger for recognizingthe evaluative status of the matrix clause.
Wecan now start looking for the signalled Expla-nation for this negative judgment.Explanation can be found quite easily: usu-ally, a MOTHERBOARD has up to  four PC I -SLOTS (see the default value that is denoted atthe PART-OF relation in Figure 1).
But actu-ally the situation HAS-PART-STATE is a statein which only one is present, which is obvi-ously "little".
The computations that derivethe Explanation-relation are all performed bymeans of production rules.As a preposition might give rise to differ-ent coherence r lations, the constraints of allthose relations have to be checked.
None ofthe constraints hat are checked for other co-herence relations ignaled by 'knit" (e.g.
Con-dition) are satisfiable in this example.
Sim-ilarly, for Example (l-a) no coherence rela-tion would be derived, because the constraintswould not be appicable.
So, the compu-tational approach is complementary to thesemantic riterion of typicallity discussed inSection 2.4 In terc lausa l  CoherenceThe proposed mechanism essentially treatsthe preposition as a kind of cue-phrase thatdetermines a set of possible coherence rela-tions, combining it with a inference mecha-nism.
The main advantage of using such acombination is that it is possible to disam-biguate cases in which cue-phrases may giverise to different relations without being con-fined to testing the complete range of co-herence relations.
This problem is not re-stricted to prepositions: (Knott and Sanders,1998) actually build a multi-taxonomy of cue-phrases in which elements may give rise toseveral relations, depending on context.
E.g,"as" has three connotations: "as" may signaltemporal, causal or slml\]arity relationship.49The presented approach can'ies over neatlyto such cue-phrases with multiple relations:indeed, the process described in Section 3can be seen as a formal reconstruction f theparaphrase.
The conceptual representationsthat is derived for Sentence (2) is basicallythe same as for (l-b): in both cases a HAS-PART-STATE and a PART-OF relation are com-puted that connects the MOTHERBOARD andits PCI-SLOT.
Finally, the computation ofthe coherence relation for Sentence (2) differsonly with respect o the trigger: in Sentence(2), the cue-phrase "so" triggers the computa-tion instead of the preposition ~mit" in (l-b).The presented approach is thus able to han-dle coherence relations that operate on theintra-sentential level.
Still, this is only a firststep to account for the discourse structureof entire texts: cue-phrases are by no meansalways present.
And even if there is a cue-phrase in a new unit to attach, it is still oftennot clear from the cue alone to which unit thenew one should connect:(3) a. Apple presented a new member of theMessagePad organ/zer thmily.b.
A new display and a new version of theoperating system are introduced.c.
However, the old MessagePad 120 isstill available.The cue "however" alone does not giveenough information to decide whether Sen-tence (3-c) should connect to (3-b) or to (3-a):further information is needed, like that thereis a referential relation between the old Mes-sagePad 120 and the MessagePad family.
Asa step towards connecting larger units, a re-cent study (Schauer, 2000) examined the in-teraction of discourse structure and referen-tim relations among nominM expressions.4.1 S t ructura l  Dependenc iesWhat seems intuitively clear, is that a theoryof discourse structure should reflect he struc-ture of the text under consideration.
Rhetor-ical Structure Theory, however, concentrateson the effects intended by the author of a text.RST focuses on a '~pre-ree~|izational" struc-ture and is not primarily concerned with textphenomena.
The results are analyses that donot account for the structural constraints in atext, here referential constraints: the depen-dency of an anaphoric expression on its an-tecedent - that it is resolvable and hence in-terpretable - can hardly be captured in RST.While this is of course not an issue for RSTas a theory, it is a prerequisite for any sys-tem that wants to account automatically fora text's discourse structure.
As an exampleconsider the following fragment:(4) a.
The Vaio F190 comes with convincingequipment.b.
It features a DVD-ROM and a 6 GBharddisk.In classical RST, example (4-a) could be saidto stand in an Evaluation relation to (4-b).The definition of Evaluation requires that thesatellite valuates the nucleus, see Figure 2. rHowever, this would not capture a structuraldependency: the pronominal anaphora "it"ca.nnot be interpreted correctly without theantecedent, so (4-b) depends on (4-a).Vaio F 190 ItFigure 2: Structure of EvaluationIn RST, one could reflect this referentialdependency b  analyzing (4-b) as giving Evi-dence for (4-a) (see Figure 3), as an Evidencerelation may be applied when the hypothesisis the nucleus.
Such an analysis would ne-glect the "convincing" in (4-a) which is quitean explicit evaluation.In order to account for the structuraldependency and the appropriate semanticlinkage, we propose to use a new kind ofEvaluation-N(ucleus) relation.
More gener-ally, this loosens the relation between ucleus-satellite assignment and semantic ontent ofcoherence relations.7The depicted structures reflect standard RSTschemata.
The target of the arrow marks the nucleus.50Vaio F190 ItFigure 3: Structure of Evidence4.2  S t ruc tura l  Conf igurat ionsAnalyzing texts using the outlined notionof structural dependencies as a basic guide-line, we determined the structural configu-rations involving coreference relations.
Ba-sically, when two units contain coreferentiaiexpressions, they are usually connected bya coherence relation which subordinates theanaphoric unit.
In the simplest case, the re-lation is one of Elaboration.
However, furtherlinguistic cues or inferences might give rise tosemantically "richer" relations.When more than one coreference relationis involved, issues become more complex.
Forinstance, consider the following example:(5) a.
The Panasonic LC90S is a 19"-display.b.
Although its screen size of 482 ramcorresponds to a conventional 21"-monitor,c.
considerably less space is required.d.
The device can be attached to a video-card via a USB-comaector.Obviously, the nominal anaphor '2he device"in (5-d) requires an antecedent.
One possi-bility would be the pronominal "it" in (5-b),leading to a resolution to "the LC90S".
How-ever, this is not reflected in the discoursestructure that seems most appropriate, of.Figure 4.
The topic of (5-b) and (5-c) (thesize) is not further elaborated on in (5-d), soone might say there is a mini-segment bound-ary between these two sentences.
Hence, itwould also be not correct to analyze (5-d) asan Elaboration of (5a-c), because (5-d) elab-orates only (5-a).
So, unless further connec-tions (stemming from cue-phrases, inferencesor whatever) license a topic continuation, anew unit containing anaphora will connect othe upmost unit bearing their antecedents.Elaboration~----~aboration ~,5a ~?f_~ss ion  5d5b 5cFigure 4: RST analyses for Example (5)5 F rom References  to  CoherenceThe configurations just described naturallylead to a combined account of deriving atext's discourse structure and resolving its re-ferring expressions, repeated from (Schauer,2000) in Figure 5.
Basically, the algorithmuses the successful resolution of anaphoric ex-pressions as a guideline for determining thetarget unit to which a new unit should beconnected which in turn restricts the set ofunits which should be searched for resolvingfurther referring expressions.The algorithm assumes the availability ofseveral capabilities for anaphora resolution.First, for a given unit candidate s a set of nounphrases needs to be identified that may beanaphoric expressions.
Second, some resolu-tion process is necessary that checks whetheran anaphoric expression can be resolved in agiven list of possible antecedents.
This pro-cess makes heavy use of underlying (domain)knowledge (Hahn et al, 1996): in Exam-ple (1), "the P6LXZ-A"  is an instance of aMOTHERBOARD.
Since ~the motherboard" in(l-a) is a definite noun phrase and syntacticas well as conceptual information match withthe plausible antecedent "the P6LXZ-A ' ,  areferential link can be established, see the IS-COREFERENTIAL relation in Figure 6.Abstracting away from the actual imple-mentation, the algorithm operates over a treestructure that manages lists of accessible an-SFor the sake of argument and because the algo-rithm is taken from (Schauer, 2000), clauses will betaken as units for the moment.
The issue will be dis-cussed below in more detail.51t ree  := t ree(centers_ fo rward( f i r s t  ( c lauses) ) ,N IL )c lauses  := res t  (c lauses)fo ra l l  c lause  := c lauses  doana_nodes := ar ray  of l i s t s  of  nodes.fo ra l l  ana_cand ::= anaphor ic_express ions(c lause)  donode := lowest_ r ight_node( t ree)whi le  node doi f  match(ana_cand,ante_ l i s t  (node))  thenana_nodes \[ana_cand \] := append ( ana_nodes \[ana_cand \],node := predecessor  (node)donedoneta rget_node  := f ind_h ighest_node_match ing_a l l  (ana_nodes)/ ,  found at leas t  one antecedent  node , /i f  ta rget_node  t:hen/ ,  connect  new un i t  to old node , /connect  ( ta rget_node  , t ree (centers_ fo rward  (c lause) ,  NIL))doneFigure 5: Algorithm integrating Coreferences and Discourse Structurenode)tecedent candidates and reflects the discoursestructure in terms of coherence relations thathas been derived so far.
9The algorithm now loops through allclauses of a text, building up both the treeand the antecedent lists incrementally.
When-ever a new clause has to be considered, its leftcontext consisting of the right frontier of thetree is checked for plausible antecedents.When all accessible antecedent nodes aredetermined, the highest node that providesantecedents for all resolvable anaphoric ex-pressions in the new unit is taken as the tar-get node, in accordance with the discussion iSection 4.2.If a new unit contains no referential expres-sion then the algorithm makes no prediction.If the target node has been found, the newunit is connected to it, i.e.
the new unit is es-tablished as a satellite to the target unit.
Thismeans that the new unit opens a new right-most branch and hence becomes the lowest-right node of the tree.
So, the new right fron-tier consists of the newly attached unit, the9The computed representation f the discoursestructure is shown in Figure 6, while the storage ofaccessible r ferential objects is managed elsewhere inthe system as it interacts with the syntactic parser.modified node and its predecessors.The evaluation in (Schaner, 2000) showedthat the predictions made by the algorithmdepend crucially on the size of the elementaryunits considered.
When clauses are consid-ered to be the elementary unit size, the pre-dictions are correct in up to 81% of the casesin which the algorithm makes a prediction - -under the pre-condition that intra-sententialunits axe handled first.
Linking units by ref-erentiai makes urely no sense when the unitsconsidered axe phrases: of course, syntacticconstraints always mandate that intra-clausalunits are related with each other first.This algorithm is only a useful approxima-tion towards a complete account of a text'sdiscourse structure.
Relating to the highestunit providing antecedents works only whenthere is a mini segment boundary every timean anaphoric expression is used.
Althoughthe algorithm ignores other sources of rela-tions between units - -  which are exactly thecases where the algorithm fails - -  the resultsare surprisingly good.
As such, enhancingthe cue-phrase-only approach by additionallyconsidering coreference r lations is in the mid-die of cheap surface-only approaches and very52~s~z zs-cozczzmrrz~ ~ I -?
~ ,__~/~-POL-~n -~IS'~Z..~-CO-P~IZI?2Figure 6: Representation f the Complex Discourse Unit for Example (1)expensive inference-only methods.
A com-plete approach will also try to account forinter-sentential cue-phrases and also furtherintercounections, based on the computed rep-resentation, see Figure 6) 06 Re la ted  WorkRhetorical Structure Theory (Mann andThompson, 1988) was basically used as thetheory on which the presented argumentswere grounded.
Unfortunately, its definitionsare intended to be applied by human anno-tators and have long resisted approaches toautomation because of their vagueness.
Pre-vious approaches to (automatically) deriv-ing a text's discourse structure ither triedto rely on purely surface-based criteria (cue-phrases, (Marcu, 1998)) or concentrated oninferences about representations of discourseunits (Asher, 1993; Hobbs et al, 1993).
How-ever, neither of these approaches tries to ac-count for phrases as discourse units.
Two re-1?The Evaluation relation in Figure 6 is due to theevaluative nature of Sentence (l-b), see the discussionin Section 3.cent studies mention the role of PPs as carri-ers of coherence r lations (Vander Linden andMartin, 1995; Grote et al, 1997), but only forthe purpose of text generation.As prepositions (and cue-phrases in gen-eral) can signal different coherence relations,the presented computational pproach cou-ples a cue-phrase approach like (Marcu, 1998)with inferences using the computed seman-tic representation.
Only recently, there havebeen some approaches (Webber et al, 1999)that acknowledge the need to incorporateboth a treatment of cue-phrase approachesand inferences.
However, how these inferencestake place is not addressed, neither is the levelof intraclansal coherence, that, as we have ar-gued, substantially relies on an integration ofbeth veins.
Purely inferential approaches like(Asher, 1993; Hobbs et al, 1993) have alsobeen criticized for being not really applica-ble because of computational costs.
The pre-sented approach tries to minimize these costsby relying on surface-based criteria that re-duce the set of coherence r lations that haveto be considered.53Cue-phrases are not necessarily alone re-sponsible for the discourse structure of texts.Hence, referential relations bel~ween nominalexpressions were suggested as means for find-ing attachment points of new traits that needto be incorporated.
(Corston, Oliver, 1998)enlarges the cue-phrase approach of (Marcu,1998) in a vein sJmi\]ar to the one presentedin Section 5.
However, how several corefer-ence relations interact with the resulting dis-course structure, is not spelled out.
Also, inhis approach, it remains uncle~ how the cor-rect target node to attach to is identified.Segmented Discourse Representation The-ory (SDRT), as described in (Asher, 1993),provides a framework of discourse structurewhich interacts with referential accessibilityconstraints.
Asher does not rely on coref-erences for establishing target units; insteadthe derivation of a coherence relation (andthereby of the target unit to connect a newunit to) relies on rather abstract connectionsbetween "events".
While recognizing corefer-ence relations certainly also requires domainknowledge and inference capabilities, recog-nizing connections between events seems aneven more impossible task.
The presented ap-proach is hence more light-weight in nature.
(Webber et al, 1999) apply operationson trees for incorporating cue-phrases in agrammar-driven approach to discourse struc-ture.
The presented algorithm could be in-tegrated with their approach, to account forthe cases of units that are not connected byreferential relations but via cue-phrases.7 Conc lus ionStarting from the question what are the el-ementary units to consider for a text's dis-course structure, I presented an account forprepositional phrases with adjunct-status adiscourse units.
Prepositions can be seen asa kind of cue-phrase; however, a prepositiondoes not necessarily signal a coherence re-lation and even if it does is often ambigu-ous with regard to the coherence relation sig-naled.
Therefore accounting for prepositionalphrases as disco~se units requires additionalinferences operating on the semantic repre-sentation of both PP and its matrix clause.The approach neatly carries over to thephenomena of ambiguous cue-phrases.
How-ever, this is still not sufficient to account forderiving the discourse structure of texts ingeneral: cue-phrases are by no means alwayspresent and even if there is a cue-phrase, de-tecting the correct attachment point of a newunit is usually not straight-forward.As (one step towards) a solution, ref-erential relations between nominal expres-sions were suggested.
The presented algo-rithm integrates the resolution of anaphora- -  which also depends heavily on inferencesand domain-knowledge - -  with choosing thetarget unit to which a new unit should con-nect to: namely, the highest node provid-ing antecedents o all anaphoric expressionsin the new unit.
In order for this algorithmto operate successful, it is however necessarythat this process is started only after all phe-nomena of intra-sentential coherence r lationshave been accounted for, which might be doneusing the combined approach outlined above.Returning to the question posed at the be-ginning of the paper - what is the appropri-ate size of elementary discourse units - theanswer is twofold: first of all, coherence re-lations can be found to hold between phrasesand the clause containing them, so one shouldindeed start looking for discourse units at thephrase level.
However, Syntax requires thatthe components of sentences group together,and returning to what (Mann and Thompson,1988) said, sentences have a kind of functionalintegrity - one that operates on a level thatis different from those of phrases.
Once thislevel is reached, larger chunks can be formed,e.g.
by referential means.The presented approach to cue-phrases aswell as the use of referential relations willbe implemented in the text understandingsystem SYNDIKATE (Hahn and Romacker,1999), in order to account for semanticallyrich relations between larger text chlmks andthe discourse structure of texts in general.This, however, will require further under-standing of the conditions of the coherencerelations involved.54AcknowledgmentsThe author is a member of the GraduateProgram on Human and Machine Intelligenceat Freiburg University, Germany, funded byDFG.
I would like to thank the staff atthe Computational Linguistics Lab, Freiburg,and also the reviewers for their comments.Re ferencesNicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Ob-jects in Discourse.
Dordrecht: Kluwer.Simon H. Corston-OliveL 1998.
Identifying thelinguistic correlates of rhetorical relations.
InProceedings of the COLING-A CL '98 Workshop'Discourse Relations and Discourse Markers',pages 8-14.
Montreal, Canada, August.Dan Cristea, Nancy Ide, and Laurent Romary.1998.
Veins theory: A model of global dis-course cohesion and coherence.
In Proceedingsof the 35th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 281-285,Montreal, Canada, August.Dan Cristea, Daniel Marcu, Nancy Ide, andValentin Tablan.
1999.
Discourse structureand co-reference: An empirical study.
In TheACL99 Workshop on Standards and Tools forDiscourse Tagging, pages 48-57, June.Brigitte Grote, Nils Lenke, and Manfred Stede.1997.
Ma(r)king concessions in English andGerman.
Discourse Processes, 24(1):87-118.Udo Hahn and Martin Romacker.
1999.
SYN-DIKATE - generating text knowledge basesfrom natural anguage texts.
In Proceedingsof the 1999 IEEE International Conferenceon Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, volume 5,pages 918-923.
Tokyo, Japan, October.Udo I-I~hn~ Katja Markert, and Michael Strube.1996.
A conceptual reasoning approach to tex-tual ellipsis.
In Proceedings of the 12th Euro-pean Conference on Artifical Intelligence, pages572-576.
Budapest, Hungary, August.Jerry R. Hobbs, Mark E. Stickel, Douglas E. Ap-pelt, and Paul Martin.
1993.
Interpretation asabduction.
Artificial Intelligence, 63:69-142.Alistair Knott and Ted Sanders.
1998.
The classi-fication of coherence r lations and their linguis-tic markers: an exploration of two languages.Journal of Pragrnatics, 30(2):135--175.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.1988.
Rhetorical Structure Theory: toward afunctional theory of text organization.
Text,8(3):243-281.Daniel Marcu, Estibaliz Amorrortu, and Mag-dalena Romera.
1999.
Experiments in con-structing a corpus of discourse trees.
In Pro-ceedings of the ACL 'g9 Workshop 'Standardsand Tools for Discourse Tagging', pages 48---57,University of Maryland, USA, June.Daniel Marcu.
1998.
A surface-based approachto identifying discourse markers and elementarytextual units in unrestricted texts.
In Proceed-ings of the COLING-ACL'98 Workshop 'Dis-course Relations and Discourse Markers; pages1-7.
Montreal, Canada, August.J.R.
Martin.
1992.
English Text.
Systemand Structure.
John Benjamins, Philadel-phia/Amsterdam.Martin Romacker, Katja Markert, and Udo Hahn.1999.
Lean semantic interpretation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 16th International Joint Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence, volume 2, pages868-875.
Stockholm, Sweden, August.Holger Schauer and Udo Hahn.
2000.
Phrases ascarriers of coherence r lations.
In Proceedingsof the 22rid Annual Meeting of the CognitiveScience Society, pages 429--434, Philadelphia,USA, October.Holger Schaner.
2000.
Using coreferences for co-herence relations.
In Proceedings of the 38thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, Student Research Work-shop, Hong Kong, China, October.Steffen Staab and Udo Hahn.
1997.
Comparativesin context.
In Proceedings of AAAI97-  thelgth National Conference on Artificial Intelli-gence, pages 616-621.
Providence, USA, July.Keith Vander Linden and James tI.
Martin.
1995.Expressing rhetorical relations in instructionaltexts: A case study of the purpose relation.Computational Linguistics, 21(1).Wietske Vonk, Lettic, u G.M.M.
Hustinx, andWire H.G.
Simous.
1992.
The use of referentialexpressions in structuring discourse.
Languageand Cognitive Processes, 3/4(7):301-333.Bonnie Webber, Alistalr Knott, Matthew Stone,and Aravind Joshi.
1999.
Discourse relations:A structural and presuppositional account us-ing lexicalised TAG.
In Proceedings of the 37thMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, University of Maryland, June.William A.
Woods and James G. Schnaolze.
1992.The Kt,-ONE family.
Computers ~4 Mathemat-ics with Applications, 23(2/5):133-177.55
