Demonstrat ion of ILEX 3.0Michae l  O 'Donne l l t  (micko@dai .ed.ac .uk) ,A l is ta i r  Knott:~ (a l ik@hermes.otago.ac .nz) ,Jon  Ober lander t  ( jon@cogsci .ed.ac.uk) ,Chr is  Mel l isht (chr ism@dai .ed.ac .uk)t Divis ion o f  Informat ics ,  Un ivers i ty  of  Ed inburgh .
:~ Depar tment  of  Computer  Science ~ Otago  University.Abst rac tWe will demonstrate the ILEX system, a systemwhich dynamically generates descriptions of data-base objects for the web, adapting the description tothe discourse context and user type.
Among otherimprovements in version 3, the system now gener-ates from relational databases, and this demonstra-tion will focus on this ability.
We will also show howincremental extensions to the domain semantics im-prove the quality of the text produced.1 In t roduct ionILEX is a tool for dynamic browsing of database-defined information: it allows a user to browsethrough the information in a database using hyper-text.
ILEX generates descriptions of a database ob-ject on the fly, taking into account he user's con-text of browsing.
For more information on ILEX,see Knott et al (1997) and Mellish et al (1998).The demonstration will consist of generating aseries of texts, in each case adding in additional com-ponents of the domain semantics.
This short papershould be read in conjunction with the full paperelsewhere in this volume.2 Generat ing  f rom Bare  DataWe start initially with a relational database, asdefined by a set of tab-delimited database files, plussome minimal semantics.
As discussed in the paper,we use assume a relational database to consist of twotypes of files:1.
Entity Files: each of which provides data fora particular entity type.
Each row (or record)defines the attributes of a different entity.
Seefigure 1.2.
Link Files: where a particular attribute mayhave multiple fillers, we use link files to definethe entity-entity relations.
See figure 2.To generate from these files, the dolnain-editorneeds to provide two additional resources:1.
Data-type specification for each entity-file, aspecification of what data-type the values in the~ MaterialsilverenamelgoldFigure 2: A Sample from a Link file.3.column are, e.g., string, entity-id, domain type,etc.Domain Taxonomy: detailing the taxonomic or-ganisation of the various classes of the entities.Mapping Domain taxonomy onto Upper Model:ILEX uses an Upper Model (a domain-independent semantic taxonomy, see Bateman(1990)), which supports the grammatical ex-pression of entities, e.g., selection of pronoun,differentiation between mass and count entities,between things and qualities, etc.
We requirethat the basic types in the domain taxonomyare mapped onto the upper model, to allow theentities to be grammaticalised and lexicalisedappropriately.With just this semantics, we can generate texts,although impoverished texts, such as:The class of J-997 is necklace.
It's de-signer is Jessie M. King.
It's date is 1905.Several tricks are needed to generate without aspecified omain semantics:Use of standard clause templates: lacking anyknowledge of how different attributes are to beexpressed, the system-can only generate achattribute using a standard template structures,such as the X of Y is Z or It's X is Z. Theattribute names, e.g., Designer, Style, etc.
canbe assumed to work as the lexical head of theSubject.
This ploy sometimes goes wrong, butin general works.
(this approach borrowed fromDale et al (1998)).257ID ClassJ-997 broochJ~998: :neddaceJ-999 i necklaceetc.
IDesigner Date Style Place SponsorKing01 11905 Art-Deco London Liberty01King01 '19116 - Art-Deco "LondonChanel01 1910 Art-Noveau ParisFigure 1: A Sample from an Entity file* Referring to Entities: there are a number ofstrategies open for referring to entities.
If theName attribute.is.supplied-(a:defined- attributewithin the ILEX system), then the system canuse this for referring.
Lacking a name, it is pos-sible for the system to form nominal referencesusing the Class attr ibute of the entity (all en-tities in ILEX databases are required to havethis attribute provided).
We could thus gener-ate indefinite references such as a brooch as firstmentions, and on subsequent mentions, gener-ate forms such as the brooch or the brooch whosedesigner is Jessie M. King.
Without specifica-tion of which entities should be considered partof the general knowledge of the reader, we mustassume all entities are initially unknown.
* Fact Annotations: ILEX was designed to workwith various extra information known aboutfacts, such as the assumed level of interest to thecurrent reader model, the importance of the factto the system's educational agenda, and the as-sumed assimilation of the information (how welldoes the system believe the reader to alreadyunderstand it).
See the main paper for moredetails.Lacking this information, the system assumesan average value for interest and importance,and a 0 value for assimilation (totally un-known).With only default values, the system cannotcustomise the text to the particular user.
It mayprovide information already well known by theuser, and thus risking boring them.
Also, therecan be no selection of information to ensure thatthe more interesting and important informationis provided on earlier pages (the reader may notbother to look at later pages).Other information (defeasible rules), which allowsus to organise the material into complex rhetoricalstructure, is also missing.So, these tricks allow us to generate simple texts,consisting of a list of template-formatted clauses.3 Add ing  Express ion  in fo rmat ionIn the next step, we will add in information abouthow the various attributes hould be expressed.
Thisincludes three main resources:1.
Syntactic expression of attributes: for each at-tribute, we provide a specification of how the......... ~.
~.~ribu:te~should~be~-expressed.
syntactically.2.
Lexicalisation of domain types: by providinga lexicon, which maps domain types to lexicalitems, we avoid problems of using the domaintype itself as the spelling.
The lexical inform-ation allows correct generation of inflectionalforms (e.g., of the plural for nouns, comparativeor superlative forms for adjectives).3.
Restrictive modifiers for referring expressions:In choosing restrictive modifiers for forming re-ferring expressions, ome facts work better thanothers.
For instance, the brooch designed byKing is more likely to refer adequately than thebrooch which was 3 inches long.
ILEX allowsthe user to state the preferential order for choos-ing restrictive modifiers.The addition of these resources will result in im-proved expression within the clauses, but not af-fect the text structure itself, which are still a listof clauses in random order.4 Add ing  User  Annotat ionsIn the next step, we add in the user model, whichprovides, for each attribute type, predicted user in-terest, importance for the system, and expected userassimilation.Using these values, ILEX can start to organisethe text, placing important/interesting i formationon earlier pages, and avoiding information alreadyknown by tile user.5 Add ing  Defeas ib le  Ru les ,  S tor iesAs a final step, we add in various resources whichimprove the texture of the text.o Defeasible Rules: ILEX allows the assertionof generalisations like most Art Deco jewelsuse enamel.
These rules allow the genera-tion of complex rhetorical structures which in-dude Generalisation, Exemplification and Con-cession.
The use of these relations improves timquality of the text generated.
* Stories: much of the information obtainableabout tile domain is in natural language.
Of-ten, the information is specific to a particular258entity, and as such, it would be a waste of timeto reduce the in.formation i to ILEX's Pred-Argknowledge structure, just to regenerate he text.Because of this, ILEX allows the associationof canned text with a database ntity (e.g., J-999), or type of entity (e.g., jewels designed forLiberty).
The text can then be included in thetext when the entity or type of entity is men-tioned.The intermixing of generated and canned textimproves the qual i ty of generated texts byproviding more variety of structures, and al-lowing anecdotes, which would be difficult tomodel in terms of the knowledge representationsystem.6 Conc lus ionBy showing incremental addition of domain spe-cification within the ILEX system, we have demon-strated that it is a system which can function withvarying degrees of information.
This allows domaindevelopers to rapidly prototype a working system,after which they can concentrate on improving thequality of text in the directions they favour.Re ferencesJohn Bateman.
1990.
Upper modeling: organiz-ing knowledge for natural language processing.In Proceedings of the Fifth International Work-shop on Natural Language Generation, Pitts-burgh, June.Robert Dale, Stephen J Green, Maria Milosavljevic,CEcile Paris, Cornelia Verspoor, and Sandra Wil-liams.
1998.
The realities of generating naturallanguage from databases.
In Proceedings of the11th Australian Joint Conference on Artificial In-telligence, Brisbane, Australia, 13-17 July.Alistair Knott, Michael O'Donnell, Jon Oberlander,and Chris Mellish.
1997.
Defeasible rules in con-tent selection and text structuring.
In Proceedingsof the 6th European Workshop on Natural Lan-9uage Generation, Gerhard-Mercator University,Duisburg, Germany, March 24 - 26.Chris Mellish, Mick O'Donnell, Jon Oberlander, andAlistair Knott.
1998.
An architecture for oppor-tunistic text generation.
In Proceedings of theNinth International Workshop on Natural Lan-guage Generation, Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario,Canada.259
