An interlingua aiming at communication on the Web:How language-independent can it be?Ronaldo Teixeira MartinsronaIdo @nilc.icmsc.sc.usp.brLucia Helena Machado RinoIucia @ dc.
uf scar.brMaria das Graqas Volpe Nunesmd gvnune @ icmc.sc, usp.brGisele Montilhagisele @nilc.
icmsc, sc.
usp.
brOsvaldo Novais de Oliveira Jr.chu@if.sc.usp.brNdcleo Interinstitucional de Lingiiistica Computacional (NILC/Sio Carlos)http://nilc.icmsc.sc.usp.brCP 668 - ICMC-USP, 13560-970 Silo Carlos, SP, BrazilAbstractIn this paper, we describe the Universal Networking Language, an interlinguato be plugged in a Web environment aiming at allowing for many-to-manyinformation exchange, 'many' here referring to many natural anguages.
Theinterlingua is embedded in a Knowledge-Base MT system whose language-dependent modules comprise an encoder, a decoder, and linguistic resourcesthat have been developed by native speakers of each language involved in theproject.
Issues concerning both the interlingua formalism and its foundationalissues are discussed.1.
IntroductionThe widespread use of the Web and thegrowing Intemet facilities have sparkedenormous interest in improving the wayspeople use to communicate.
In this contextmultilingual Machine Translation systemsbecome prominent, for they allow for a hugeinformation flow.
To date, MT systems havebeen built under limited conditions, of whichwe highlight two: i) in general, they mirrorone-to-many(languages) or many(languages)-to-one approaches, often involving English atthe "one" end; ii) communication is reducedto basic information exchange, ignoringrichness and flexibility implied by humanmind.
The first limitation has been seldomovercome, since it requires a robustenvironment and research teams that cancope with knowledge of several anguages 1,to derive precise automatic languageanalyzers and synthesizers.
The secondlimitation follows up the first: adding upcommunicative issues to linguisticprocessing/modeling makes still harder toovercome MT limitations.In this article, we elaborate on work usingan interlingua conceived to overcome the firstlimitation, i.e., to allow for a many-to-manyinformation exchange environment, whichshall be plugged in a nontraditional Internetplatform.
The goal is to allow interlocutors toentangle communication even if they do notshare the same mother tongue or the EnglishStanding, most often, for natural language, or NL.24language, unlike MT systems that have justone language at one of their edges.
As themain component of a Knowledge-Base MTsystem (hereafter, KBMT), the interlinguaapproach has been developed under theUniversal Networking Language Project, orsimply UNL Project.
What makes theinterlingua UNL special is its intended use:as an electronic language for networks, it hasto allow for high quality 2 conversationsystems involving many languages.
As themain component of a KBMT system, it has tobe sufficiently robust o ground research anddevelopment (R&D) of the language-specificmodules to be attached to the system.
It isthis latter perspective that is undertaken here:from the viewpoint of R&D, we discuss howbroad, or language-independent, heinterlingua UNL is, especially focusing on itssyntax and coverage.
In addition to beingconsistent and complete to representmeaning, we also consider its sharing byresearchers all around the world, which is animportant bottleneck of the UNL Project,since information exchange by researchersduring R&D brings about the problemsintroduced by the interlingua UNL itself,concerning both its formalism andfoundational issues.
Before discussing thistopic in Section 5, we present an overview ofthe UNL Project (Section 2) and describe themain features of the interlingua UNL(Section 3).
In Section 4, we describe theUNL system architecture.
Hereafter,'interlingua UNL' will be simply referred toas UNL, the acronym for UniversalNetworking Language.
Also, the viewpointpresented here is that of interlingua userswho experience R&D for a given NL, and notof its authors.2.
The UNL ProjectThe UNL Project 3 has been launched bythe United Nations University to foster andease international web communication bymeans of NLP systems.
Its main strength lieson the development of the UNL, as a uniquesemantic (or meaning) representation that canbe interchanged with the various languages tobe integrated in the KBMT system.
In theUNL Project, plug-in software to encode NLtexts onto UNL ones (NL-UNL encoders)and to decode UNL into NL texts (UNL-NLdecoders) have been developed by R&Dgroups in their own native languages.
Themodules to process Brazilian Portuguese 4, forexample, have been developed by a team ofPortuguese native speakers that compriseslinguists, computational linguists, andcomputer experts.
Such packages will bemade available in WWW servers and will beaccessible by browsing through Internet, thusovercoming the need for people all aroundthe world tO learn the language of theirinterlocutors.
Several inguistic groups havesigned to the.
Project, namely: the Indo-European (Portuguese, Spanish, French,Italian, English, German, Russian, Latvianand Hindi), the Semitic (Arabic), the Sino-Tibetan (Chinese), the Ural-Altaic(Mongolian), the Malayan-Polynesian(Indonesian), and the Japanese.On the one hand, the main strength ofthe Project is that knowledgeable specialistsaddress language-dependent issues of theirmother tongue, most of which are related toR&D of the encoding and decoding modulesand to the specification of the NL-UNLlexicon.
On the other hand, this alsorepresents a crucial problem faced by theproject participants, for distinct groups mayinterpret the interlingua specificationdifferently.
There is thus the need for aconsensus about the UNL formalism,2 By 'high quality' we mean 'at least allowing forreadability and understandability by any user'.3 A description of both, the Project and the UNL itself,can be found in http://www.unl.ias.unu.edu/.4 Hereafter referred to as Portuguese or by its acronym,BP.25bringing about an assessment of its coverage,completeness, and consistency, all featuresthat will be discussed shortly.3.
The Universal Networking LanguageThe UNL is a formal language designedfor rendering automatic multilingualinformation exchange.
It is intended to be across-linguistic semantic representation ofNL sentence meaning, being the core of theUNL System, the KBMT system developedby H. Uchida (1996) at the Institute ofAdvanced- Studies, United NationsUniversity, Tokyo; Japan.UNL subsumes a tridimensional theory of(sentence) meaning, whose components aredefined according to one of the following sets(Martins et al, 1998a): concepts (e.g., "cat","sit", "on", or "mat"), concept relations (e.g.,"agent", "place", or "object"), and conceptpredicates (e.g., "past" or "definite").
Suchcomponents are formally andcorrespondingly represented by threedifferent kinds of entities, namely: UniversalWords (UWs), Relation Labels (RLs), andAttribute Labels (ALs).
According to theUNL syntax, information conveyed by eachsentence can be represented by a hypergraphwhose nodes represent UWs and whose arcsrepresent RLs.
To make symbol processingsimpler, hypergraphs are often reduced tolists of ordered binary relations betweenconcepts, as it is shown in Figure 1 for thesentence (1) The cat sat  on the mat.
5'sit', 'cat', 'on' and 'mat' are UWs; 'agt' (agent),'pie' (place) and 'obj' (object) are RLs; '@def,'@entry' and '@past' are ALs.Figure la: UNL hypergraph representation f theEnglish sentence "The cat sat on the mat"agt(sit.
@entry.
@past,cat.
@def)plc(sit.
@entry.
@past,on)obj(on,mat.
@def)Figure lb :  UNL linear representation of theEnglish sentence "The cat sat on the mat.
"UWs are labels for concept-likeinformation, roughly corresponding to thelexical level in the sentence structure.
Theycomprise an open large inventory, virtuallycapable of denoting every non-compositionalmeaning to be conveyed by any speaker ofany language.
For the sake of representation,these atomic semantic ontents are associatedto English words and expressions, which playthe role of semantic labels.
However, there isno one-to-one mapping between the Englishvocabulary and the UNL lexicon, for UNL,as a multilingual representation code, islarger than the English vocabulary.
To avoidunnecessary proliferation of the UNLvocabulary and to certify that standards beobserved by UNL teams, control over thespecification of the UW set is centered at theUNL Center, in Japan.Several semantic relationships holdbetween UWs, namely synonymy, antonymy,hyponymy, hypemymy and meronymy,which compose the UNL Ontology.
Steadysemantic valencies (such as agent and objectfeatures) can also be represented, forming theUNL Knowledge-Base.
Both Ontology andKnowledge-Base aim at constraining thescope of UW labels, whenever ambiguity isto be avoided.
The.
UNL representation fsentence (1), for example, can be ambiguous26in Romance languages, for the translation of'cat' should make explicit the animal sex: ifmale, it would be "gato" (Portuguese andSpanish), "gatto" (Italian), "chat" (French),whereas different names would have to beused for the female cat.
Instead of having aunique UW 'cat', it is thus quite feasible tohave a whole structure in which 'cat' is onlythe hyper-ordinate option.For the English-UNL association ot toundermine the intended universality of theUW inventory, its semantic-orthograpicalcorrespondence has to be considered ratherincidental, or even.
approximated.
It is notalways the case that extensions 6 of a UWlabel and of its corresponding English wordcoincide.
The extension of the English word"mat", for example, does not exactly coincidewith the extension of any Portuguese word,although we can find many overlaps between"mat" and, e.g., "capacho" (Portuguese).Portuguese speakers, however, would not say"capacho" for the ornamental dishmat, aswould not English speakers use the word"mat" for a fawner (still "capacho" inPortuguese).
Since each language categorizesthe world in a very idiosyncratic way, itwould be misleading to impose astraightforward correspondence betweenlexical items of two different languages.
InUNL, this problem has been overcome byproposing a rather analogic lexicon, insteadof a digital one.
Although discrete, UWsconvey continuous entities, in the sense thatsemantic gaps between concepts are fulfilledby the UNL Knowledge-Base, as it is shownfor the UW 'mat' in Figure 2.
Granularitythus plays an important role in UNL lexicalorganization and brings flexibility into cross-linguistic lexical matching.Cf.
(Frege, 1892), extension here is used to establishthe relationship between a word and the world,opposed to intension, referring to the relationshipbetween aword and its meaning.iclFigure 2a: UNL hypergraph artial representation forthe meaning denoted by the English word "mat""mat""mat(aoj>entity)""mat(icl>event)""mat(icl>frame)""mat(icl>rug)""mat(icl>state)""mat(obi>entitv)"Figure 2b: UNL partial inear epresentation forthe meaning denoted by the English word "mat"While lexical representation in UNLcomprises a set of universal conceptssignaled by UWs, the cross-lexical levelinvolves a set of ordered binary relationsbetween UWs, which are the Relation Labels(RLs).
RLs specification are similar toFillmore's semantic ases (1968), with RLscorresponding to semantic-value relationslinking concept-like information.
There arecurrently 44 RLs, but this set has beencontinuously modified by empirical evidenceof lack, or redundancy, of relations.
Theinventory of RLs can be divided into threeparts, according to the functional aspects ofthe related concepts: ontological, event-likeand logical relations.
Ontological relationsare used as UW constraints in reducinglexical granularity or avoiding ambiguity asshown above, and they help positioning UWsin a UNL lexical structure.
Five differentlabels are used to convey ontologicalrelations: icl (hyponymy), equ (synonymy),ant (antonymy), pof (meronymy), and fld(semantic field).2"7UNL depicts sentence meaning as a factcomposed by either a simple or a complexevent, which is considered here the startingpoint of a UNL representation, i.e., itsminimal complete semantic unit.
Event-likerelations are assigned by an event external orinternal structure, or by both.
An eventexternal structure has to do nearly alwayswith time and space boundaries.
It can bereferred to by a set of RLs signaling the eventco-occurrent meanings, such as 7 itsenvironment (scn); starting place (pl0,finishing p!ace (pit), or, simply, place (plc);range (fmt); starting time (tmf), finishingtime (tmt), or, simply, time (tim); andduration (dur).
Action modifiers, such asmanner (man) and method (met) can alsoqualify this structure.
An event internalstructure is associated to one of the followingsimple frames: action, activity, movement,state, and process, each expressing differentRLs in the event itself, including its actorsand circumstances.Event actors are any animate or inanimatecharacter playing any role in events, whichcan be the main or the coadjutant actors.There can be up to eight actors, signaled bythe following RLs: agent (agt), co-agent(cag), object (obj), co-object (cob), objectplace (opl), beneficiary (ben), partner (ptn)and instrument (ins).
They can also becoordinated through the RLs conjunction(and) and disjunction (or), or subordinated toeach other by possession (pos), content (cnt),naming (nam), comparison (bas), proportion(per), and modification (mod).
They can stillbe quantified (qua) or qualified by the RLs"property attribution" (aoj) and co-attribution(cao).
It is possible to refer to an "initialactor" (src), a "final actor" (gol), or an"intermediary actor" (via).
Finally, spatialrelationships can also hold between actors:current place (plc), origin (firm), destination(to), and path (via).
Besides single events,there can still be complex cross-eventrelationships which express either paralleledevents - co-occurrence (coo), conjunction(and), and disjunction (or) - or hierarchicallyposed events - purpose (pur), reason (rsn),condition (con), and sequence (seq).
Theycan all be referred to as logical relations,since they are often isomorphic to first-orderlogic predicates.According to the UNL authors, it ispossible to codify any sentence written in anyNL into a corresponding UNL text expressingthe sentence meaning through the use of theabove RLs.
This is still a claim to be verified,since cases of superposition and competitionbetween different RLs have been observed,as it is discussed in Section 5.In addition to UWs and RLs, UNLmakes use of predicate-like information, orAttribute Labels (ALs), which are names forevent and concept "transformations", in asense very close to that intended by Chomsky(1957, 1965).
They are not explicitlyrepresented in a UNL hypergraph, althoughthey are used to modify its nodes.
ALs canconvey information about concept intensionsand extensions.
In the former case, ALs nameinformation about utterers' intensions overeither specific parts of a sentence (focus,topic, emphasis, theme) or the wholestructure (exclamation, interrogation,invitation, recommendation, obligation, etc.
).In the latter case, ALs refer to spatial(definite, indefinite, generic, plural) ortemporal (past, present, future)information,or still, temporal external (begin-soon, begin-just, end-soon, end-just) or intemal(perfecfive, progressive, imperfective,iterative) structures.
To differentiate ALsfrom UWs, ALs are attached to UWs by thesymbol ".@".
The cOncept expressed by theUW 'sit' in "sit.
@entry.
@past", for example,is taken as the starting point (.
@entry) of thecorresponding hypergraph and it is to bemodified by temporal information (.
@past).7 RLs names are bracketed.284.
The UNL SystemThe UNL system architecture consists oftwo main processes, the encoder anddecoder, and several linguistic resources,each group of these corresponding to a NLembedded in the system, as depicted inFigure 3.~U~qL e language-to-~ dictionaryUNL-t0-target-~ uage dictionary~source  Ilanguage IEncoder?
r I1Decoderlanguage I s~t~CNL e language-to-~ grammar JFigure 3: The UNL System ArchitectureA source document (SLD) conveyswritten text on any subject, in any of the NLsconsidered.
There is no constraint in thedomain or structure of the SLD, but there isnecessarily a loss of semantic expressivenessduring NL-UNL encoding.
The goal of theUNL is not, in principle, to fully preserve textmeaning, but only its main components, i.e.,those considered to be essential.
However,there is no measurable account as to what isessential in the UNL Project.
By convention,this is linked to what has been called theliteral meaning, whi.ch is directly derivedfrom interpreting the sentence surfacestructure.
Therefore, there is no room torepresent content hat is not directly mappedonto the NL syntactic-semantic licensedstructures.The NL-UNL encoding tool, or UNLEncoder, is generic enough to handle all the29languages included in the Project.
Apart fromthe (supposedly) universal knowledge-base,used to fill-in possible interlexical gaps whenmapping is not precise, all other linguisticresources are language-dependent.
Thesource grammar essentially guides theelicitation of the sentence semantic structureinto its corresponding UNL structure, bydetermining RLs and ALs, always givingpriority to information content.The UNL-NL decoding tool, or UNLDecoder, works in the opposite way to theEncoder.
Besides the lexicon and thegrammar, a cooccurrence dictionary is alsoused at this stage, to disentangle lexicalchoice.
The target grammar is responsible forthe semantic-syntactic mapping, nowresolving semantic organization by makingsyntactic and dependence choices betweenUWs, taking RLs and ALs into account.5.
Remarks on language-independenceThe main strength of the UNL Projectrests on human expertise: language-specificaspects to be included in the multilingualKBMT system are handled by nativespeakers of that language, in an attempt oovercome the need of representingknowledge across several languages orcultures.
It has been successful in developingNL-driven resources and processes byresearchers all around the world.
Forexample, the BP UNL lexicon has over65,000 entries that are categorized accordingto grammatical and some semantic features,and this will be extended considerably in thefuture to cover the Portuguese vocabulary toa greater extent.
Up to the present ime, onlydecoding systems customized to each NLhave been plugged into a general decoderskeleton (provided by the UNL Center) andhave already been assessed, producingpromising results.
The BP decoder, forexample, is able to produce outputs whoseliteral meaning is preserved in most cases(Martins et al, 1998b), using handcodedUNL expressions.
Actually, to decode anyUNL text, NL-UNL encoding has to behandmade, since customization of the UNLEncoder to each NL has not yet beenundertaken in the project.
In spite of thepromising decoding results, a) output qualityvaries enormously with UNL sentencesencoding, which can be different acrossdistinct research groups; b) communicativeaspects of information exchange on the webare not explored in depth, as it can be seenthrough the list of RLs or ALs.
UNL is notknowledge intensive and there are noguidelines as to consistently recognize orextract such kind of information from thesurface of the source texts.There are several reasons whyinterpretation and use of the UNL among thevarious teams are not uniform, includingcultural aspects and syntax differences of thelanguages involved.
Using English as thelingua franca for communication andcooperation among the research groups andas the knowledge representation language hasalso brought limitations into the Project,since it implies a non-desirable level oflanguage-dependence.
This is inevitable,however, for limitations definitely comealong with the choice made.
For example,attaching a NL word to a UW may bedifficult, owing to the cross-referencesintroduced by using English to convey UNLsymbols.
Resuming the example shown inFigure 1, this is the case of the UW "on" in(lb): the preposition 'on' fills in the positionfeature of the verb 'sit' and, thus, isrepresented in UNL correspondingly as thesecond term of the binary relation 'plc' andthe first term of 'obj'.
This, undoubtedly, iscritical, for 'sit' can be juxtaposed to otherprepositions leading to different meanings,which, in turn, may introduce different sets ofbinary relations, implying a high-levelcomplexity in the UNL representation.
As aresult, languages whose syntactic structuresdeeply differ from the English ones may30present an additional level of complexity thatmakes mapping to/from UNL impossible orunrealistic.
In this respect, we have not beenfacing many problems in fitting Portuguesestructures with UNL ones, since Portuguese,like English, is an inflectional anguage thatalso employs prepositional constructions.However, prepositions in Portuguese mayplay considerably different roles compared toEnglish.
Various extensions of the Englishspatial prepositions "on", "over" and"above", for example, are subsumed inPortuguese by a single form "sobre" (whichmay also mean ..about).
Therefore, inPortuguese, cats could be, at the same time,not only "on" but also "over" and "above"mats.
Only world knowledge, associated tocontextual indexes, both absent in thereferred UNL hypergraph, could avoid theunsuited encodings The cat sat over the mat.or The cat sat above the mat.
from thePortuguese sentence "O gato sentou sobre otapete".Another problem related to the sentenceThe cat sat on the mat.
refers to the existenceof competing analyses: it is quite plausiblethat a UNL representation suggesting a nounphrase instead of a full sentence holds for thissentence.
It so happens when the arc between'sitting' and 'cat' concepts are labeled by theRL 'obj', instead of the RL 'agt' in (1), as itis shown in Figure 1 a', yielding the UNL textshown in Figure lb'.oFigure la': UNL hypergraph representation fthe English sentence "The cat sat on the mat."obj(sit.
@entry.
@past,cat.
@def)plc(sit.
@ entry.
@ past,on)obj(on,mat.
@def)Figure lb ' :  UNL linear representation f theEnglish sentence "The cat sat on the mat.
"Both analyses are equally accurate andcan lead to good NL surface expressions,although they refer to different semanticfacts.
Indeed, to define an object relationshipbetween "sitting" and "cat" is to say that thecat was already sat before the beginning ofthe event (e,g., The cat sat on the mat ate thefish.).
In this case, the animal does notactually perform the action, but isconditioned to it, the main performer positionbeing empty, thus yielding the referred nounphrase.
In Figure 1, instead, the cat on itsown has taken the sitting position, thereforeintroducing an agent relationship.
These twodifferent semantic facts may correspond, inEnglish, to a single surface structure.
Indeed,(1) is orthographically identical to (1').However, other languages (e.g., Portuguese)do behave differently.Although it is also possible to have, inPortuguese, the same surface structurecorresponding to both UNL representations("sentado no tapete"), it is more feasible tohave, for each case, completely differentconstructions.
In the case depicted by Figure1, the UW "sit" would be associated to theverb "sentar" (corresponding to "to sit").Thus, the generation result should besomething like "O gato sentou no tapete" or"O gato sentado no tapete".
On the otherhand, for Figure 1', the same UW 'sit' wouldbe generated in a completely different way,corresponding to the passive form of thePortuguese xpression "colocar sentado" (tobe put in a sitted position), for which there isno adequate English surface xpression.Distinguishing such situations to copewith syntactic-semantic troublesomemappings, though interesting, is a highly31context-sensitive task, often surpassingsentence boundaries.
UNL descriptions donot address such fine-grained level ofmeaning representation, being limited tomeanings derived from context-free sourcesentences, even when context-freenessimplies insufficient information.
When this isnot possible, UNL offers a default analysisfor semantically ambiguous sentences, inwhich case we can say that the UNLrepresentation is probabilistic, rather thandeterministic.The _way we believe some of UNLlimitations can-be  overcome and/orminimized is by designing a fully-fledgedtesting procedure to assess outputs of bothdecoder and encoder for the variouslanguages.
Since the same encoding anddecoding procedures have been delivered tothe UNL teams, it is possible that part of theset of rules or translation strategies of a giventeam may be interchangeable with anotherone from a different language.
In this way,sharing procedures may become a warrantyfor common ground assessment of the variedmodels, in which case it may be possible tomake eligible concurrent strategies equallyavailable for the languages involved.Concerning the UNL means todisambiguate or proceed to referenceresolution or other discourse figures, most ofthe troublesome occurrences are enclosed inthe treatment issued by specialists and, thus,they are constrained to, and handled by, at thelevel of native speakers use.
This measurecan be somewhat fruitful, provided that eachsignatory of the Project finds a way to trace aUNL text back onto its own NL text or vice-versa, making a proper use of the UNLsyntax or symbols.
This, in fact, can be agood method to evaluate (de)coding: once aUNL code has been produced from any NLtext, this code can be the source to decodinginto the same NL, in order to compare theoriginal NL text with the automaticallygenerated one.
Evaluation, in this case, canbe carried out by the same research groupresponsible for both processes.Compared to other interlingua pproaches(e.g., Mikrokosmos, Gazelle, or Kant), theUNL Project is in a much earlier stage - mostof those are over 10 years old, while the UNLone is about 3 years old - but it is much moreambitious than most of the current systemsunder construction.
For UNL is actually afront-end to a many-to-many communicationsystem, with no constraints that are normallyinherent in MT systems.
Since knowledge isspecified by native speakers for each NLmodule, grammar, semantics and worldknowledge can be well founded.
Itslimitations, from a conceptual viewpoint, areshared by most of its counterparts, as intreating text at the sentence level only.
Inaddition, by no means is the UNL systemcommitted to event replication as it is thecase of human translation.
Automaticstrategies have no psychological motivationwhatsoever and are solely based uponcomputer efficiency principles, namely timeand space.AcknowledgmentsThe development of resources forBrazilian Portuguese in the UNL Project hasbeen sponsored by the Institute of AdvancedStudies of the United Nations University.
Theauthors are also grateful to CNPq and Finep(Brazil) for the financial support and to Mr.Tadao Takahashi, the coordinator of theBrazilian branch in the UNL Project.ReferencesChomsky, N. (1957).
Syntactic Structures.The Hague, Mouton.Chomsky, N. (1965).
Aspects of the Theory ofSyntax.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Fillmore, C. (1968).
The case for case.
InBach, E. and Harms, R.T.
(orgs.
),Universals in linguistic theory, pp.
1-88.Rinehard and Winston, New York.32Frege, G. (1892).
On Sinn and Bedeutung.
InBeaney, M.
(ed.
), The Frege Reader.Blackwell Publishers, Malden, MA, 1997.Martins, R.T., Rino, L.H.M., Nunes, M.G.V.(1998a).
As Regras Gramaticais para aDecodtfica~ao UNL-Portugu~s no ProjetoUNL.
Relat6rio T6cnico 67.
Instituto deCiSncias Matem~iticas e da Computa~ao.Universidade de S~o Paulo, Sao Carlos.Martins, R.T.; Rino, L.H.M.
; Nunes,M.G.V.
; Oliveira Jr., O.N.
(1998b).
Canthe syntactic realization be detached fromthe syntactic analysis during generation ofnatural ldnguage sentences?
III Encontropara o processamento c mputacional dalingua portuguesa escrita e falada(PROPOR'98).
Porto Alegre - RS.Novembro.Uchida, H. (1996).
UNL: UniversalNetworking Language - An ElectronicLanguage for Communication,Understanding, and Collaboration.UNU/IAS/UNL Center.
Tokyo, Japan.33
