Abstract Anaphora Resolution in DanishCostanza  Navar re t taCenter for SprogteknologiNjalsgade 802300 Kcbenhavn Scostanza@cst.ku.dkAbst rac tIn this paper 1 I describe the useof Danish pronouns and deicticsin dialogues.
Then I present anadaptation to Danish of Eckertand Strube's algorithm for resolv-ing anaphora referring to individ-ual NPs and abstract objects in En-glish dialogues (Eckert and Strube,1999b; Eckert and Strube, 1999a).The adapted algorithm is tested onfour Danish dialogues from two dia-logue collections and the results ob-tained are evaluated..1 In t roduct ionMany natural language processing applica-tions involve the complex task of resolvinganaphora.
Different strategies for anaphoraresolution have been proposed, some exclu-sively relying on the syntactic structure ofdiscourse, some including semantic and prag-matic constraints, some based on statisti-cal methods.
One of the most popular ap-proaches to anaphora resolution is center-ing (Grosz et al, 1995), henceforth GJW95,which accounts for the relation between thesaliency of entities in discourse and the useof referring expressions, incorporating syn-tax, semantics and pragmatics.
Centering fitsinto Grosz and Sidner's model of discoursestructure (Grosz and Sidner, 1986).
In thismodel a discourse is composed of segmentswhich exhibit global coherence.
A discourse1This work has been carried out under Staging,an on-going Danish project funded by the Danish Re-search Councils.segment, on the other hand, is composed ofa sequence of utterances which exhibit localcoherence.
This latter phenomenon is ac-counted for by centering theory.
Centeringpredicts that there is a connection betweenthe coherence of a referring expression andthe inference load necessary to resolve it.
Al-though Grosz, Joshi and Weinstein recognizethat many factors determine the prominenceof entities in an utterance, in GJW95 thisprominence is established simply by the linearorder of the entities in the utterance.
Differ-ent centering algorithms have been presented,spelling out the strategy described in GJW95,extending the theory to more linguistic phe-nomena or specifying the concept of promi-nence of discourse ntities.
Strube and Hahn(Strube, 1998; Strube and H~.hn, 1999) in par-ticular, calculate prominence considering theinformation structure of the utterances (func-tional centering).
2 The prominence rankingthey adopt does not exclusively rely on wordorder, which is language dependent.
More-over GJW95 only dealt with intersententialanaphora, while Strnbe and Hahn accountfor both intrasentential nd intersentential,pronominal and nominal anaphora,Centering-based algorithms have beentested on written texts.
Recently they havealso been applied to written dialogues.
Byronand Stent (1998), in particular, test center-ing on multi-party dialogues.
They concludethat centering seems to be a valid theory alsoin this case, but it must be extended to ac-2In (Strube and Hah~ 1996) a functional-basedprominence ranking has been proposed.SAn other extension of the centering frameworkto intrasentential anaphora has been proposed byKameyama (1998).56count for dialogne-specific aspects uch as thedefinition of utterance boundaries, the speci-fication of a strategy for tackling partial ut-terances and including discourse participantsin the list of relevant discourse ntities.Eckert and Strube (1999a; 1999b), hence-forth ES99, describe an algorithm for resolv-ing anaphors referring to individual NPs andabstract objects in English dialogues.
The al-gorithm is based on rules for discriminatingamong the two types of anaphor based on thepredicative contexts in which the anaphorsoccur.
The individual anaphors are then re-solved by the functional centering algorithmdescribed in (Strube, 1998), while abstractanaphors are resolved with a different algo-rithm.
ES99 test the approach on selecteddialogues and obtain a precision of 63,6%for discourse deictics and 66,2% for individ-ual anaphors.
They report that most errorsare due to the inability to distinguish be-tween discourse deictics and pronouns whichvaguely refer to concepts in the preceding dis-course (vague anaphors).
Another cause of er-ror is the lack of information about abstractnominals.
I believe that the strategy followedby ES99 is a good starting point for inves-tigating how far one can go in resolving in-dividual and abstract anaphors in dialogueson the basis of the local contexts in which theanaphors occur.
I have adapted the algorithmso it accounts for Danish data and have ap-plied it to Danish dialogues.
4In section 2 I shortly present he originalcentering framework and functional centeringas described in (Strube, 1998), $98.
In sec-tion 3 Eckert and Strube's algorithm is in-troduced and in 4 the Danish personal anddemonstrative prononn~ are described withfocus on discourse deictics in dialogues.
Insection 5 1 present my adaptation of the ES99-algorithm to Danish data.
Section 6 con-talus an evaluation of the results obtained bymanually testing the adapted ES99-algorithmon randomly selected ialogues from the col-lection "Samtale hos Leegen" (Conversationat the doctor's) (SL) and "ProjektIndvaudr-4Centering-based algorithms have recently beentested on Danish discourse (Navarretta, 2000).erdansk" (Project Immigrant Danish) (PID),collected by researchers at the Department ofGeneral and Applied Linguistics of the Uni-versity of Copenhagen.
In section 7 I outlinefuture work for improving the results of the al-gorithm and make some concluding remarks.2 Center ingIn GJW95 the entities which link an utteranceUn to the others in the same discourse seg-ment are the centers of that utterance.
Eachutterance is assigned a set of forward-lookingcenters, Cf, and, with the exception of theinitial utterance of the segment, a backward-looking center, Cb.
The Cb of an utterance Unconnects with one of the forward-looking cen-ters of the preceding utterance Un-1 while theforward-looking centers only depend on theexpressions in Un.
The forward-looking cen-ters are partially ordered to reflect relativeprominence.
GJW95 recognize three types oftransition relation across pairs of utterances:continue, retain and shift (see table 1).Center movement and realization are con-strained by two rules:Rule I: If any element of CCf(U~-i) is real-ized by a pronoun in Un, then Cb(Un)must also be realized by a pronounRule 2: Center continuation is preferred tocenter etaining which is preferred to cen-ter shifting2.1 Functional CenteringIn $98 the functions of the backward-lookingcenter and the transitions in the centeringtheory are replaced by the order of elementsin a list of salient discourse ntities, the S-list.
The ranking criteria for the elements inthe S-list are based on (Prince, 1981), wherediscourse entities are classified into hearer-old (OLD), mediated (MED) and hearer-new(NEW).
The two tuples (x, Uttx, posx) and(y, utty, posy) in the S-list indicate that theentity x is evoked in utterance uttx at posi-tion posx and that y is evoked in utteranceutty at position posy respectively.
Given thatUttx and utty refer to Un or Un-1, the follow-57Table 1: Transition StatesOR no Cb(U.-1)CONTINUERETAINSHIFTing ranking constraints on the S-list entitiesare valid (Strube, 1998)\[p.1253\]: s1.
i f xEOLDandyEMED,  thenx~yif x E OLD and y E NEW, then x --< yi fx  E MED and y E NEW, then x ~ y2.
if x,y  E OLD or x,y  E MED or x,y ENEW,then if uttx > Utty then x ~ yif utt~ = utty and posz < posy then x -~ yThe S98-algorithm Consists in testing a re-ferring expression against he elements in theS-list from left to right until the test suc-ceeds.
The S-list is then updated so that newelements are inserted according to the S-listranking criteria.
When the analysis of an ut-terance is finished all the entities which werenot realized in the utterance axe removed fromthe S-list.3 Ecker t  and  St rube 's  A lgor i thmES99 propose a new algorithm for resolvinganaphors with abstract object antecedents.Analyzing a collection of telephone conversa-tions they distinguish the following anaphortypes: individual anaphors, discourse deic-tics, inferrable-evoked anaphors 6 and vagueanaphors.
Other types of pronoun are nottaken into consideration.Predicates that are preferentially associ-ated with abstract objects are marked as I-incompat ib le  (*I) while predicates that arepreferentially associated with individual ob-jects are marked as A - incompat ib le  (*A).5I mark ranking precedence with ~.61nferrable-evoked anaphors refe~ to the use of theplttral pronoun they indirectly co-specifying with asingular NP which indicates a country or an institu-tion.ES99 define the following *I predicates(Eckert and Strube, 1999b)\[p. 40\]:Equating constructions where a pronom-inal referent is equated with an abstractobject, e.g., x is making it easy, x is asuggestion.Copula constructions whose adjectivescan only be applied to abstract entities,e.g., x is true, x ks false, x is correct, x isright, x isn't right.Arguments of verbs describingpropositional attitude which takeS'-complements, e.g., assume.Object of do.Predicate or anaphoric referent is a "rea-son", e.g., x is because I like her, x is whyhe's late.Predicates that are preferentially associ-ated with individual objects are the following(Eckert and Strube, 1999b)\[p. 40\]:Equating constructions where a pronom-inal referent is equated with a concreteindividual referent, e.g., x is a ear.Copula constructions with adjectiveswhich can only be applied to concrete n-tities, e.g., x is expensive, x is tasty, x isloud.Arguments of verbs describing physi-cal contact/stimulation, which cannot beused anaphorically, e.g., break x, smash z,eat x, drink x, smell x but NOT *see xGrounded acts are used as domain for theanaphor resolution algorithms in dialogues.58In particular two dialogue acts, In i t iat ions(Is) and Acknowledgments  (As) are rec-ognized.
Is have semantic ontent, while Asare only used to ground the preceding I. Ac-knowledgments / In i t ia t ions  (A/ Is)  are di-alogue acts that have both the function ofgrounding the preceding I and that of estab-lishing a new I.
An I and the correspond-ing A, together with longer Is in the sameturn-taking which do not need to be acknowl-edged, constitute a Synchroniz ing Uni t(SU).
Short Is which are not acknowledgedare ignored by the resolution algorithms.ES99 follow i.a.
(Webber, 1991) in assum-ing that anaphoric discourse deictic referenceinvolves reference coercion and that only dis-course sections adjacent to the anaphor or,using Webber's terminology, sections on theright frontier of the discourse structure tree,are available for discourse-deictic reference.Like (Asher, 1993) they assume that the typeof abstract object is determined by the con-text in which the anaphor occurs.
Anaphorareferring to abstract objects are resolved us-ing a list, the A-list.
The A-list is only filledwhen discourse deictics occur and its elementsremain for one I.
The parts of the linguisticcontexts are accessed in the following order:1. the A-list; 2. in the same I the clause to theleft of the clause which contains the anaphor;3. within the previous I the rightmost mainclause and subordinated clauses to its right;4. within previous Is the rightmost completesentence, if previous I is an incomplete sen-tence.The anaphora resolution algorithm forthird person singular neuter personal pro-nouns is the following (Eckert and Strube,1999a):case  PRO is I - incompat ib leif resolveDiscourseDeictic(P RO )then  classify as discourse deicticelse classify as vague pronoun;case  PRO is A - incompat ib leif  resolveIndividual (PRO )then  classify as individual pronounelse classify as vague pronoun;case  PRO is ambiguousif  resolveIndividual(PRO )then  classify as individual pronounelse i f  resolveDiscourseDeictic(PRO)then  classify as discourse deicticelse classify as vague pronoun;The same algorithm is used for demon-stratives, with the exception that the lasttwo if constructions in the algorithm for pro-nouns are reversed reflecting the preferencefor demonstratives to be discourse deictics(Webber, 1991).4 Dan ish  DataIn this section I shortly describe Danish thirdperson personal and possessive pronouns anddemonstrative pronouns.
The description fo-cuses on the discourse deictic use of these pro-nouns based on occurrences in three Danishdialogue collections, Bysoc, 7 SL and P ID .My description is also based on (Allan et al,1995).
The third person singular personal andpossessive pronouns can be found in table 2,while the third person plural personal andpossessive pronouns can be found in table 3. sDen, det and de are also used as defi-nite articles (the) and demonstrative deter-miners (this/that and these/those).
In spo-ken language the demonstratives are alwaysstressed.
9 Den, det, de are demonstrativesif followed by the adverbials her and der inwhich case they correspond to the Englishthis/these and that/those respectively.
Fur-thermore, the demonstratives denne, dette(this) and disse (these) exist.Femjnlne and masculine pronouns generallyco-refer 1?
with persons, but can also refer topets as in English.
Common gender pronounsrefer to common gender nouns which do notdenote humans.
Common gender nouns de-noting humans are neutral as to the sex ofthe person they refer to.
Thus the gender of7The Bysoc corpus has been collected by re-searchers at Copenhagen University under "ProjektBysociolingvistik" (Project Urban Sociolinguistics).SThe Danish reflexive pronouns are used differentlythan the English ones, see i.a.
(Neville, 1998).9Because I do not have access to phonetic infor-mation about the considered ialogues I cannot ac-count for important phenomena such as intonationand prosody, see i.a.
(Vallduv~ and Engdahl, 1995).1?From now on I will simply write "refer to".59Table 2: Third person singular pronounsgender  sub jec t  ob jec t  ref lexive possess ive pos.ref l .feminine hun she hende her sig herself hendes hers si-nJtJne hersmasculineCOmmOnneuterhan heden itdet itham him sig himselfden it sig itselfdet it sig itselfhans his si-nftfne hisdens its si-n/tfne itsdets its si-n/t/ne itsTable 3: Third person plural pronounsLsubject I ?b Jeer Lre exive IP?
Ide they dem them sig themselves deres their / theirsthe referring pronoun corresponds to the sexof the person the noun refers to.Neuter gender pronouns are used to referto neuter nouns.
They can also refer to afew common person nouns in neuter gender,such as barn (child) and menneske (person)if the sex of the person is unknown or irrel-evant (syntactic agreement).
In case the sexis known or relevant, the appropriate femi-nine or masculine pronouns are used (seman-tic agreement).
The two cases are illustratedin the following examples:barnet var pd millimeter sd stortdet skulle v,~re i l,~ngden og i hov-edstcrrelsen og...(the child was precisely as high as itought to be and its head was as bigas it ought to and...  )sd ch... jeg kunne gd ud \]or jeghavde mit barnebarn reed pd tre ethalvt dr sd..., kunne jeg jo bare holdehami  hdnden(so oh...
I could leave because I wastogether with my three and half yearold grandchild so..., I could just holdhis hand)Both den and det can refer to collectivenouns.
In this case the choice between thesingular den or det and plural de depends onwhether the speaker focuses on the collectivemeaning or on the individuals.
Det and infew idiomatic expressions den are also usedas expletives.In Danish the most frequently used dis-course deictic is det which corresponds to it,this or that.
Other discourse deictics are dether (this) and det der (that).
These two deic-tics can be used in most of the same contextsas det, although there seems to be a prefer-ence for using them to refer to several clauses.The neuter demonstrative dette (this) has alsoa discourse deictic use, but is mostly used inwritten language.
I did not found any occur-rences of it in the three dialogue collections.As discourse deictic det refers to an infini-tive or a clause, as it is the case in the follow-ing examples:At ryge er \]arligt og det er ogsd dyrt(Smoking is dangerous and it is alsoexpensive)A: Du skal rage en blodprcve(You have to take a blood test)B: Hvorffor det?
(Why that.
*)Det is also used as the subject complementof vmre (be) and blive (become) in answers.A: Blev du ff,~rdig reed opgaven?
(Were you done with the task?
)B: Ja, det blev jeg(lit.
Yes, that was I)(Yes, I was)Det refers to a verb phrase when it is usedas the object complement for the verb have(have), gCre (do) and modal verbs as in60Alle faldt, men det gjorde jeg ikke(lit.
All fell, but that did I not)(All fell, but I did not)Det refers to a clause in constructions withattitude verbs and other verbs which takeclausal complements, uch as synes (think),fro (believe) and vide (know), sige (say), hdbe(hope):A: Det begynder snart at regne.
(It will soon begin to rain)B: Det hdber jeg ikke(lit.
That hope I not)(I hope not)In the latter three cases the pronoun det isoften topicalized, i.e.
it appears before themain verb, in the place that usually is occu-pied by the subject 11.Det can also refer to more clauses, or tosomething that can vaguely be inferred fromthe discourse.A: barnets .far chin ...(the baby's father uhm ...)B: ja(yes)A: havde alvorlig,ch.
.
.
spmdbcrnsgulsot da hanblev fcdt(had serious, uh ... infant icteruswhen he was born)B: ja(yes)A: og fik sd ogs~ skirter sit blod ikkeogs~(and then he also got a bloodtransfusion, didn't he)B: mmhA: det havde hans storebror ogs~i(lit.
that had his brother too)(his brother had it too)B: ja(yes)A: og er blevet hjerneskadet afdet(and he got brain damage from it)B: ja11This position is called fundamentfelt (actualiza-tion field) by (Diderichsen, 1984 1946).
(yes)A: altsd jeg red ikke om deter  nogetjeg skal, om deL skal skrives nogensteder eller gCres noget red(so I don't know whether it issomething I should do, whether itshould be written somewhere orsomething should be done)In the above example the deictics in thelast utterance do not refer to a single clauseor predicate, but to the whole family historyof icterus.To conclude, Danish deictics are used inmore contexts than the English ones.
Espe-cially noticeable is the Danish use of discoursedeictics in cases where elliptical constructionsare normal in English.
125 The Adapted ES99-algorithmOn the basis of the deictics in the two Danishdialogue corpora, SL and P ID  I have estab-lished the following *I predicates for Danish:constructions where a pronoun is equatedwith an abstract object, e.g., x er etforslag (x is a suggestion)copula constructions with adjectiveswhich can only be applied to abstract en-tities, such as x er sandt (x is true), x erusandt (x is untrue), x er rigtigt (x iscorrect)arguments of verbs which take S'-complements, e.g., fro (believe), antage(ass-me), mene (think), sige (say)anaphoric referent in constructions suchas x er /ordi du er holdt op reed at ryge(x is because you have stopped smoking)x er pd grund af at duer  gravid (x isbecause you are pregnant)?
object of g#re (do)* subject complement with vmre (be) andblive (become) in answers12I have not included in the description cataphoricdeictic pronouns.61?
object of have (have) if" the verb was notused as a main verb in the previous clause?
object of modal verbsThe last four predicates are specific forDanish.
I have assumed the following *Apredicates, which are mainly' translations ofthe English ones:?
constructions where a pronominal refer-ent is equated with a concrete individualreferent, such as x er en legemsdel (x isa body part), x er et barn (x is a baby)?
copula constructions with adjectiveswhich can only be applied to concrete n-tities, such as x er rcdt (x is red)?
arguments of verbs describing physicalcontact/stimulation, which cannot beused anaphorically, e.g.
spise x (eat x),drikke x (drink x)As Eckert and Strube notice for English,also in Danish there are cases where the con-texts of an anaphor can allow both an in-dividual NP and an abstract object.
Someexamples are copula constructions like x ergodt /ddr l ig t  (x is good/bad), and objects ofverbs such as elske (love), hade (hate), fore-traekke (prefer).
To partially accomodate his,I have added the following condition to thealgorithm: in the above cases the anaphor isclassified as A* incompatible unless the pre-vious clause contain.~ a raising adjective con-struction in which case it is considered I* in-compatible.
Consider the fi)llowing two ex-amples:Peter  boede ie t  r~dt hus.
Dethadede han.
(Peter lived in a red house.
Hehated it.
)Deter  dcdsygt at sidde pd et vaskeri.Det hader jeg.
(It is boring to be in a laundry.
Ihate it)In the first example the algorithm chooseset r~dt hus (a red house) as the antecedentof det, while in the second example the algo-rithm chooses at sidde pd et vaskeri (being ina laundry) instead of et vaskeri.
There arecases, similar to the first example, where it isimpossible, without a deeper analysis of thediscourse to determine whether an anaphorrefers to an individual NP or an abstract ob-ject.In the test I have taken into account themetaphorical uses of verbs encoded in a se-mantic lexicon, the Danish SIMPLE lexicon(Pedersen and Nimb, 2000).From the analysis of anaphors in the con-sidered ialogue collections I found that manyindividual anaphors refer back to entitieswhich have not been evoked in the immedi-ately preceding utterances (SUs) and thusthey would not be on the S-list (the enti-ties which are not evoked in the current SUare removed from the list).
Thus I have ex-tended the scope of resolution for all individ-ual anaphors except the neutral singular.
Ifan antecedent to an individual NP cannot beresolved by looking at the actual S-list, theelements on the S-lists for the preceding SUsare considered.
136 Eva luat ion  o f  the  A lgor i thmI have applied the modified ES99-algorithm tothree randomly selected SL dialogues (6,305words) and to one of the dialogues betweennative Danes recorded in the P ID  collection(5,367 words).
It must be noted that in mytest only one annotator (the author) iden-tiffed dialogue acts, classified the anaphorsin the dialogues, marked NPs and anaphorantecedents.
In (Eckert and Strube, 1999a)these tasks have been accomplished by twoannotators.In dividing the three SL dialogues into dis-course segments I have mainly used a parti-tion made by two researchers at the Univer-sity of Copenhagen i an independent project.The discrimination criteria were topic shiftand a few linguistic clues.
I have then ap-IsI have followed the cache model described in(Walker, 1998).
In the present est it was necessary togo back maximally seven SUs to find an antecedentto an individual pronominal anaphor.62plied the same discrimination criteria to thedialogue from the PID collection.I have defined dialogue units syntacticallyfollowing (Eckert and Strube, 1999a).
14Because it is not always possible to dis-tinguish between den, det, de used as per-sonal or demonstrative pronouns without hav-ing access to stress information, I have classi-fied them as personal pronouns unless theyare topicalized, or occur in syntactic con-structions where demonstratives are normallyused.
The manual classification of pronounsand demonstratives in the four dialogues canbe found in table 4.The results of the individual anaphora reso-lution algorithm can be found in table 5, whilethe results of the discourse deictics resolutionalgorithm are given in table 6.The results obtained are better than thosereposed in (Eckert and Strube, 1999a), but Ihave used more background information thanES99 and extended the scope of resolution forindividual anaphors (without this extensionthe precision of the individual resolution al-gorithm was of 64.5).
Furthermore the Dan-ish deictic det occurs in more contexts thanthe English it, this and that, thus there aremore I* predicates in the Danish version ofthe algorithm than in the original one.
Thefact that only one annotator divided the dia-logues into SUs may also have influenced theresults.The algorithm classifies anaphors and re-solves some of them, thus there are two typesof error, classification errors and resolution er-rors.
Most of the instances of wrongly classi-fied anaphors are due to the fact that the al-gorithm classifies vague anaphors as discoursedeictics and then resolves the anaphor to apreceding predicate or clause.
Few errors aredue to the fact, already noticed by ES99, thatthe defined I* and A* predicates do not con-tain information about nominals referring toabstract objects.
15 These errors resulted inmost cases in resolution errors.Some errors are due to the inability to find14The dialogue collections have been tagged.15The semantic lexicon I used did not contain therelevant nominals.an individual NP antecedent to the pronoundet, when this refers generally to an NP of dif-ferent gender 16 and to wrongly resolved plu-ral pronouns with complex NP antecedents orwith no antecedent.
Correctly classified, butwrongly resolved discourse deictics are, i.a.,due to the fact that I did not mark in anyparticular way parenthetical utterances.
Thelatter kind of errors are chaining errors.
Intable 7 the occurrences of each type of errorare reported.7 Conc lud ing  RemarksThe adapted ES99-algorithm has been testedon two kinds of dialogue, that have been clas-sifted by one annotator.
Although the typesof dialogue in the Danish test is quite differentfrom that used by ES99, the results reportedin the previous section (6) indicate that thealgorithm performs as well for Danish as forEnghsh.
Because the use of Danish pronouns,especially those referring to abstract objects,is different from the English one, these resultsprovide an interesting evaluation of the algo-rithm.As noticed by ES99, adding more lexicalknowledge to the algorithm could improve itsperformance.
I also beheve that the con-texts of abstract anaphors hould be studiedin more dialogues, and that more attentionshould be given to the connection betweendiscourse deictics and the relations that \]in~pieces of discourse to each other (Webber,1991; Fraurud, 1992; Asher, 1993; Kehler,1997).Further work will thus consist in analyzingthe occurrences of discourse deictics in bothwritten texts and dialogues and payingadditional attention to the relations linkingpieces of discourse to each other (i.a.
(Hobbs,1979; Mann and Thompson, 1987; Polanyi,1988)leThe use of especially generic plural pronouns inSwedish is discussed in (Fraurud, 1992).63Table 4: Classification of Pronouns and DemonstrativesA5 AA10 AAl l  TR3'  ~Individual Pro 39 43 34 51 167Discourse Deictics Pro 25 16 17 34 92Vague Pro 4 6 0 2 12Inferrable Evoked 1 0 0 2 3Individual Dem 1 5 0 4 10Discourse Deictics Dem 27 20 19 28 94Vague Dem 2 5 3 3 13Table 5: Results of the Individual Anaphora Resolution AlgorithmA5 AA10 AAl l  TR1No.
resolved correctly 31 40 23 40 134No.
of Individual Pro 41 48 34 57 I 180Precision 0.756 0.833 0.676 0.701~0.744Table 6: Results of the Discourse Deictics Resolution AlgorithmNo.
resolved correctlyNo.
of Discourse DeicticsPrecisionA5 AA10 AAl l  TR143 25 33 49 14758 47 39 67 2110.741 0.489 0.846 0.716 0.696Table 7: Wrongly resolved anaphorsDD-vague 10wrongly resolved plural 13generic det 7abstract nomina|~ 5individual anaphora instead of DD (% abstract nominals) 6~rrong!y resolved DD 28wrongly resolved individual anaphora (singular) 2chaining errors 3964ReferencesRobin Allan, Philip Holmes, and Tom Lundsk~er-Nielsen.
1995.
Danish - A ComprehensiveGrammar.
Routledge, London.Nicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to AbstractObjects in Discourse, volume 50 of Studies inLinguistics and Philosophy.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers, Dordrecht, he Netherlands.D.
Byron and A. Stent.
1998.
A PreliminaryModel of Centering in Dialog.
In Proceedingsof the 36th Annual Meeting, volume II, pages1475-1477.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Paul Diderichsen.
1984-1946.
Elementa;r DanskGrammatik.
Gyldendal, Copenhagen.Miriam Eckert and Michael Strube.
1999a.
Dia-logue Acts, Syncchronising Units and AnaphoraResolution.
In Jan van Kuppevelt, Robert vanLeusen, Robert van Rooy, and Henk Zeevat,editors , Amstelogue '99 Proceedings - Workshopon the Semantics and Pragmatics of Dialogue.Miriam Eckert and Michael Strube.
1999b.
Re-solving Discourse Deictic Anaphora in Dia-logues.
In Proceedings of the 9th Conferenceof the European Chapter of the Association ofComputational Linguistics, pages 37--44.Kari Fraurud.
1992.
Processing Noun Phrases inNatural Discourse.
Department ofLinguistics -" Stockholm University.Barbara Grosz and Candace Sidner.
1986.
Atten-tion, Intentions, and the Structure of Discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12(3):175-284.Barbara Grosz, Aravind K. Joshi, and Scott Wein-stein.
1995.
Centering:A Framework for Mod-eling the Local Coherence of Discourse.
Com-putational L inguistics~ 21(2):203-225.Jerry R. Hobbs.
1979.
Coherence and Corefer-ence.
Cognitive Science, 3(1):67-90.Megumi Kameyama.
1998.
Intrasentential cen-tering: A case study.
In Marilyn A. Walker,Aravind K. Joshi, and Ellen F Prince, editors,Centering Theory in Discourse, pages 89--112.Oxford University Press.Andrew Kehler.
1997.
Current Theories ofCentering for Pronoun Interpretation: A crit-ical Evaluation.
Computational Linguistics,23 (3) :467-475.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.1987.
Rhetorical Structure Theory: De-scription and Construction ofText Structures.In Gerard Kempen, editor, Natural LanguageGeneration, number 135 in NATO ASI, pages85-95.
Martinus Nijhoff Publishers.Costanza Navarretta.
2000.
Centering-basedAnaphora Resolution in Danish.
In Petr Sojka,Ivan Kopecek, and Karel Pala, editors, Pro-ceedings of the Third International Workshopon Text, Speech, Dialogue - TSD 2000, pages345-350, Brno, Czech Republic.Anne Neville.
1998.
Subject-orientedness andEx-empt Anaphors.
In Proceedings of the Xth Con-ference of Nordic and General Linguistics Uni-versity of Iceland, Reykjavik.Bolette S. Pedersen and Sanni Nimb.
2000.
Se-mantic Encoding of Danish Verbs in SIMPLE -Adapting a verb-framed model to a satellite-framed language.
In Proceeding from Sec-ond International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation - LREC 2000, Athens.Livia Polanyi.
1988.
A Formal Model of theStructure of Discourse.
Journal of Pragmatics,12(5/6):601-638.Ellen F. Prince.
1981.
Toward a taxonomy ofgiven-new information.
In Peter Cole, editor,Radical Pragmatics, pages 223-255.
AcademicPress.Michael Strube and Udo Hahn.
1996.
FunctionalCentering.
In Proceedings of the 34th AnnualMeeting, pages 270-277.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Michael Strube and Udo Hahn.
1999.
FunctionalCentering - Grounding Referential Coherencein Information Structure.
Computational Lin-guistics, 25(3):309-344.Michael Strube.
1998.
Never Look Back: An Al-ternative to Centering.
In Praeeedings of the36th Annual Meeting, volume II, pages 1251-1257.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Enric Vallduv~ and Elisabet Engdahl.
1995.
Thelinguistic realization of information packaging.Linguistics, 34(3):459-519.Marilyn A. Walker.
1998.
Centering, AnaphoraResolution, and Discourse Structure.
In Mari-lyn A. Walker, Aravind K. Joshi, and Ellen F.Prince, editors, Centering Theory in Discourse.Oxford University Press.Bonnie L. Webber.
1991.
Structure andOstension in the Interpretation of DiscourseDeixis.
Natural Language and Cognitive Pro-cesses, 6(2):107-135.65
