From Context  to  Sentence  FormSab ine  Ge ldo fArt i f ic ia l  In te l l igence LaboratoryVri je Un ivers t i te i t  Brusse lP le in laan  2, 1050 Brusse lssabine@arti ,  vub.ac.beAbst rac tWhen generating utterances, humans may chooseamong a number of alternative sentence forms ex-pressing the same propositional content.
The con-text determines these decisions to a large extent.This paper presents a strategy to allow for suchcontext-sensitive ariation when generating text fora wearable, advice giving device.
Several dimen-sions of context feed a model of the heater's atten-tion space, which, in terms of Information StructureTheory, determines the form of the sentence to begenerated.1 In t roduct ionWhen generating utterances, humans may chooseamong a number of alternative sentence forms ex-pressing the same propositional content.
Considerthe following examples:1.
Amanda Huggenkiss proposes to meet you totalk about 'agents'.2.
Amanda Huggenkiss, she proposes to meet youto talk about 'agents'.3.
'Agents' is proposed as a subject for a meeting,by Amanda Huggenkiss.Discourse pragmatics research, mainly in view of NLunderstanding, reveals a loose coupling between arange of grammatical markers (morpho-syntax, wordorder and also prosody) and difficult to verify mentalcategories uch as 'given' and 'new'.
While unpre-dictability seems an inherent property of pragmaticphenomena (Verschueren, 1995) we want to exper-imentally introduce the observed variability in anNLG device to investigate its communicative effect.Our practical goal is to enhance the effectiveness ofa wearable device that provides spoken advice toa user operating in a real-world physical environ-ment.
Given a particular pragmatic ontext, oneor another formulation is more appropriate w.r.t.communicative success (Hovy, 1990).
We focus onthe hearer's context (as perceived by the speaker).Like Klabunde and Jansche (1998), we are interestedin linguistic form variations related to informalionI P "'~ 7< 2.
~ ,k" : r ' . '
.Figure 1: COMRIS Parrot design and prototypepackaging (Lambrecht, 1994) as an important as-pect of addressee tuning.
Taking into account mul-tiple context dimensions acquired in real-time dis-tinguishes our approach, also from other NLG re-search concerned with user adaptation, where onlydiscourse and/or user profile are considered (e.g.
(Krahmer and Theune, 1998; Paris, 1988)) or timeand space from a linguistic-theoretical perspective(Maybury, 1991).The work reported here is part of the COMRIS Iproject.
In an information-rich situation (e.g.
whenvisiting a conference), a user receives relevant advice(e.g.
about interesting talks, interesting persons inthe neighbourhood) from her 'parrot' (see figure 1)2.Related research issues in COMRIS are physicalcontext sensing and information focusing throughagents' competition for the attention of the user(Van de Velde et al, 1998).
Context-sensitive t xtgeneration contributes to the latter and depends onthe fomaer.
We earlier investigated how context de-termines the text generation process at the level ofword choice (Geldof, 1999b).
We proposed a multi-dimensional context model, encompassing discourse1COMRIS: Co-habited Mixed Reality Information Spaces(http://art i .vub.ac.be/-comris/)2 Reproduced with permission from Starlab nv(http://www.starlab.org)225n econtext attention information g~arnmarmodel space structure2.
\ ]  2.3 2~ 2,4Figure 2: Suite of models corresponding to thecontext-sensitive NLG process5: ~ P in" in  ml:~e'O i :  mil~lll b~ ;,,t.,....l,,d b tg.q.
~ook ~p I~.10 ~5.
* .~.
p*rmon , .
p ry :- )  1~?s .~1 .-pqvlZ " fo r  *o?
l .
l t , t r '~",,.kgm w~'~w e p,~:~emUon ~ Joe $,~CC ,.,;,e,~n ~ e,~' , ' , ,  ~,,,.,J,.,~SL~EXTRA-LINGUISTIC CONTEXT/.
, ~ '~ ~ i ~  ~ |-Ihistory, physical context and user profile (Geldof,1999a).
Real-time information about these differ-ent perspectives annotates the input structure of thetemplate-based NLG component.
We use TG/2,a rule-based engine that covers the continuum be-tween templates and syntactic generation (Buse-mann, 1996).
Making abstraction from planning andmulti-sententional discourse phenomena allows us tofocus on the subject of our research: context sensi-tivity and surface form.
In this paper, we want touncover how context affects the structure of utter-ances (vs lexical choice).Section 2 presents the different steps of our ap-proach: context modeling (2.1), information struc-ture analysis (2.2), applied discourse pragmatics(2.3) and NLG strategy (2.4).
Section 3 illustratesthese ideas through scenarios and we conclude (sec-tion 4) with a discussion of our work.2 Approach:  f ro ln  context  tosentence  fo rm v ia  a t tent ion  focusOur goal is to obtain a less intrusive device throughcontext sensitivity of the spoken output.
Thepresupposition is that utterances anchored to thehearer's multidimensional context will require lesscognitive effort to attend to.
Our strategy is basedon the discourse pragmatic account for grammaticaldifferences between utterances expressing the samepropositional content.
Figure 2 shows how we envi-sion the connection between various disciplines re-lating context to utterance form.Context is considered to activate particular men-tal representations in the heater's mind (modeled asher attention space).
In order to be communicative,the speaker hypothesises about this attention spaceand structures his utterance accordingly.
Informa-lion Structure Theory accounts for this adaptationprocess.
We use our earlier conlext model and de-veloped a strategy for determining topic and focusbased on the analysis of COMFIIS" discourse wag-Figure 3: Overview of the different context perspec-tives in COMRIS'  context modelmatic situation.2.1 Context  mode l ingContext perception and adaptation are importantin research on wearable technologies.
Nomadic Ra-dio (Sawhney and Schmandt, 1999) adapts informa-tion delivery (news, email, phone-calls) to the user'sphysical environment through varying output soundtechnology.
Remembrance agents act like memoryextensions by pointing to related information in ap-propriate contexts (De Vaul et al, 2000).
Neitheruse linguistic form variation.
Our I3 sister project.HIPS (Benelli et al, 1999) does and focuses on theinteraction between physical and hypertext naviga-tion for a wearable museum guide.
Schmidt andcolleagues provide a platform for inferring tile rela-tionship between low-level contextual data and ap-plication dependent concepts (Schmidt et al, 1999).When dealing with content delivery to human users.the use and interpretation of symbolic data in combi-nation with quantitative data remains an importantissue on the research agenda.
Our context model isa first proposal in that direction.When focusing on lexical phenonaena like d,qc-tie expressions (this afternoon, here) and anaphora(she, the same topic) or the inclusion of appositionsrelated to the bearer's profile (one of your favouritetopics), .we proposed a three-dimensional contextmodel (see figure 3) in order to generate truly con-text sensitive xpressions.
Objects mentioned to theuser are recorded in a discourse model, her locationin space and time is monitored via beacons.
TheInformation \[,aver provides user profile information(in terms of persons and topics of interest).
Entil iesin the NLG input structure are annotated with con-I ext ual informal ion of t hose different perspect ires.226We will use the same multi-dimensional context?
model for building an .attention space..model of .thehearer.
Only for the physical context, we need addi-tional reasoning on the time and location indexes interms of the activity of the user (cfr.
2.3).
Indeed,knowing which kind of activity the user is involved inat each moment (i.e.
the ontology instances involvedin that activity) we hypothesise on which person andkeyword the user's attention is focused on.2.2 At tent ion  focus  and  In fo rmat ionS t ructure  Theory  .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.Other researchers have investigated attention focusin larger spans of discourse .
(McCoy and Cheng,1991; Grosz and Sidner, 1986) and in dialogue (Joki-nen et al, 1998).
Corpus analysis (Rats, 1996)confirms the existence of a mechanism called topic,through which interlocutors trive at discourse co-herence to reduce the cognitive effort of the hearer.The terminology used in the different frameworksis confusing, even contradictory (Bosch and van derSandt, 1999).
Information Structure Theory (Lam-brecht, 1994) accounts for exactly those phenomenawe are interested in: grammatical differences be-tween allo-sentences (expressing the same semanticcontent).
Lambrecht considers information struc-ture as an integral part of the grammar of natu-ral languages.
After determining what to say, aspeaker structures this information in terms of hisown presupposition of the hearer's attention state.Identifiability (whether a shared representation ex-ists in both interlocutors' minds) and activation sta-tus (how much a known representation is at theforefront of the bearer's mind (Chafe, 1987)) deter-mine pragmatic role assignments.
Topic, the roleof aboutness is attributed to a discourse referentthat is identifiable and more or less active.
Focusis the unpredictable part of tile utterance.
Whereasall utterances have a focus (in order to be com-nmnicative), some may be topic-less.
Lambrechtdistinguishes 3 types of sentence constructions (ac-cording to whether the predicate, the argument orthe whole sentence is in focus 3) and demonstratesthrough granamatical analysis, that tile first con-struction is tile most natural one.
Languages usedifferent gramnlatical markers to realise informa-tion structure and there is no one-to-one correspon-dence between grammatical markers (e.g.
definite-ness, pronominalization, accentuation) and topic or3Examples  taken from .
(Lambrecht, 1994): ((S.\taLL CaPSindicate prosodic accent)(a) predicate focus: what did the children do?
The childrenwent  to  SCHOOL.
(b) argument  focus: who went to school?
The CHILDRENwent to school.
(c) sentence focus (topic-less): what happened't  I'he (HIL-DRKN we l l t  to  SL I tOOL.focus.
In English, topic is preferably realised as an..... trnaccented.~pronoun?- while., focus elements,,usuallycarry prosodic accent 4.2.3  COMRIS  d i scourse  pragmat icsThere is no content-based iscourse planning inCOMRIS.
The propositional content of parrot mes-sages is provided by agents that represent particularuser interests in the virtual world.
A mechanismof competition for attention determines whether amessage will actually be pushed to the user.
As a'..consequences, ~the sentences to-be generated-are topic-less: each message conveys only new information, asif answering the hypothetical question: 'what is ap-propriate for me to do now?'.
Thus they bare thedanger of coming 'out of the blue', as in the followingsequence:o "There will be an interesting presentation byAmanda Huggenkiss about 'knowledge systemsand AI'."
(propagandist message)o "Enric Plaza proposes to meet you to discussabout 'machine learning'."
(appointment pro-posal)o "Josep Arcos, who shares your interest in'agents', is currently in your neighbourhood.
"(proximity alert)o -" Please note you have to give a presentation on'NLG and context' within 5 minutes."
(commit-ment reminder).The intuition that such a sequence is not ideal fromthe communicative point of view, confirms our in-terpretation of information structure theory in viewof communicative effect.
Whereas topic expressioncreates discourse continuity (i.e.
links tile messageto tile context in a broad sense: an active mentalrepresentation), topic-less entences can be assumedto require a higher cognitive effort from tile hearer.Therefore our communicative strategy for COM RISwill be to look for a topic candidate within a givenpropositional content.
To be communicatively moreeffective, we try to somehow link a message to theattent.ion space of the user-hearer.Obviously, the bearer's mind is a black box andall we can do is hypo/hesise about the activationof mental representations by contextual factors.
Inline with our previous work, we argue that the 3dimensions of the user's context (linguistic, physicaland profile) should be taken into account.
Given theCOMRIS ontology, the attention state model can berepresented as a simple tree structure (see examplesin section 3): each utterance conveys information4This is a simplif ication of I,ambrecht 'sanalysis.
Our pointis that  less prosodic accents reduce the cognitive ffort of thehearer, which is our goal.
Combined with the choice of sen-tence structure,  it const i tutes our strategy for reduced obtru-si v{~lless.227about, an event characterised by a key-word (-list),involving a person, and possibly a time/locationspecification.
Thus we will search in the hearer'sdiscourse and physical context which are the acti-vated instances of the concepts event, person, key-word and time/location.
To find out which instancesare contributed by the physical context, we hypoth-esise about the user's current activity by comparingher physical position with the conference programmeor her agenda.
For instance, if we know that theuser is attending a particular presentation, we canquery the conferenceprogram for the speaker andthe keywords of that presentation.
Alternatively, iftim user's physical location confirms that she attendsan appointment, her agenda will reveal the name ofthe person she's meeting and maybe some topics ofdiscussion.
Any of these instances may also carrycontext annotation w.r.t, the user's interest profile.Section 3 explains this further through scenarios.2.4 NLG s t ra tegyAssignment of topic and focus follows from our ap-plication of Information Structure Theory to tile dis-course pragmatic situation in COMRIS.
Our searchfor a topic candidate in the NLG input structureconsiders time pressure first, then the activationof entities via discourse or activity and finally thehearer's interest profile, as detailed in the followingrules:1.
(physical context first) If the NLG input struc-ture contains a time expression that is anno-tated as being very close to the current point intime (physical context value), then let the timeexpression be the topic, opening the sentenceand carrying a prosodic accent.
The sentencestructure is predicate focus.e.g.
Please note that, within FIVE MINUTES,you have to give a presentation on 'NATURALLANGUAGE GENERATION AND CONTEXT ' .2.
(topzc candidate in attention space) If one of theentities of the input structure is also presentin the (hearer's) attention space map, let it bethe topic, realised as an unaccented pronoun(preferred topic marking) in case it occurred intile immediate linguistic context a or as a left-dislocated constituent in case it was present inthe physical context.e.g.
She will give a presentation on KNOWL-EDGE SYSTEMS and AI.AMANDA HUGGENKISS ,  she will give a presen-tation on KNOWLEDGE SYSTEMS and AI.3.
(profile conte~'l also matters) If none of tileabove situations occur, verity' whether any ofthe entities of the inpul stru'lure has a high- : ' immediat, ' ly preced ing message,  m,t tmJre than  X ag~,.wh,,re X i~ a tim," Ih teshohtprofile value (indicating tile hearer's interest in?
that keyword, or person), ff the physical.contextalso allows topic shift, use an argument focusstructure (after introducing the new topic):e.g.
Someone interested in 'AGENTS' is in yourneighbourhood.
It's JOSEP ARCOS 6.4.
Else (default) use a sentence focus structure.e.g.
PENN SILL proposes to MEET you  to  talkabout 'NLG and CONTEXT.The scenarios below will further concretise tile rela-tionship between context, attention space and topic-focus assignment, but tile above examples already il-lustrate our main point.
The first 3 rules are aimedat linking an element of the propositional content othe user's attention focus, in virtue of tile precedingdiscourse, the physical context or her interest, pro-file.
Topic expression often leads to de-accentuation.In other words, rule 4 applies when there is no wayto anchor the utterance to the user's context and re-quires to accent every information entity.
Empiricalexperiments will have to verify the hypothesis thatthe non-default sentence constructions are perceivedas less intrusive.3 Scenar iosThis section illustrates (with examples from simu-lated conference data) how the attention space is de-rived from the context and how rules for topic/focusassignment are applied.
In each scenario the pre-vious utterance of the parrot to the user -if recentenough-, constitutes the linguistic context (Icv), theuser's current activity activates entities via tile phys-ical context (elcv).
Tile tree diagram shows tilecorresponding attention space map.
The proposi-tional content (input to the NLG process) consistsof the message type, an instance of event, person.keyword(s) and possibly time expression.
Finallywe compare the context sensitive NLG output withthe default output,3.1 Scenario 1: topic- focus t ruc tureAt the nloment of utterance, the heater's contextcan be characterised as follows:l inguist ic context:  "There will be a.n interestingpresentation on 'knowledge systems and AI'.
l) 3Amanda Huggenkiss.
this afternoon.
"phys ica l  context:  user is attending a presentationoil 'machine learning' by Penn Sill.This situation may be analysed as activating dis-course referents in the hearer's mind as representedin the a t tent ion  space map of figure 4.GNote that ,  in c&~e the ob ject  marked  for high interestis the person,  a more abbrev ia ted  sentence  const ruct  iotl isappropr ia te :  '.losEP ARcos is in your  ne ighbourh~md' .
S incet he user ind icated herself  that  she is in teres ted  in th is  person.n,, need tc~ ful?lher character i se  h im.228?
pmsemt~on {Icv) Huggen~dss (icy) presentaOon (eicv) AmandaPenn Sgl (elcv)"rfene~ I~)?
meek (eicv) Amanda Hu~3et~ld.,s (icy).
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
~ B~tam~,,s (elcv)Figure 4: Attention Space map for scenario 1,builtfrom linguistic (lcv) and extra-linguistic ontext(elcv)propositional content: appointment proposal:Enric Plaza, machine learning.
One of theseentities also appears in the attention space:machine learning.This situation leads to the application of rule 2:'machine learning' will be assigned the role oftopic, while other entities of the input structure ('ap-pointment proposal' and 'Enric Plaza') will receivethe role of focus.
This yields the following output:"MACHINE LEARNING, it's also the subject of anAPPOINTMENT PROPOSAL by ENRIC  PLAZA.
"Compare with the default sentence construction:" ENRIC  PLAZA proposes an APPOINTMENT to  talkabout  ~ ' \ [ACHINE LEARNING.
"3.2 Scenar io  2: top ic  shiftl inguist ic  context :  "There will be an interestingpresentation on 'knowledge systems' and 'AI',by Amanda Huggenkiss, this afternoon.
"phys ica l  context :  user is leaving a presentation,on her way to a meeting with Richard Ben-jamins on Machine Learning.This situation leads to the attention space map offigure 5.p ropos i t iona l  content :  proztmity alert, Josep A r-cos, agents (p_pv.
5).
The profile value annota-tion indicates that this keyword is of high inter-est t.o the user (as indicated by herself, e.g.
atconference registrar ion).The physical context is such that it allows for a shiftof topic (user is not yet talking to Hichard Ben-jamins), which makes rule 3 applicable: 'agents willbe introduced as a new topic, followed b~, an argu-tI I( ' l lt fOCUS Sl Filet l i fe:Figure 5: Attention Space map for scenario 2"Someone interested in 'AGENTS' is close t,o you:it's JOSEP ARCOS.
"Compare to the default expressions:"JoSEP ARCOS, who's interested in 'AGENTS', isclose to you.
"4 DiscussionIn this paper we proposed an NLG strategy thatrelates aspects of the heater's multidimensional con-text to grammatical variations of sentences.
The in-terpretation of the COMRIS  pragmatic situation interms of Information Structure Theory leads to de-creasing the hearer's cognitive effort by linking thepropositional content to her broad context.
Thisis marked grammatically in the resulting utterance.Although the details may be application dependent,we believe the general idea holds for context-awareverbal interaction on wearable devices.
Experimentsin another application area would involve the elab-oration of another ontology and might reveal othergrammatical markers.
We see some limitations andchallenges for further research.
The approach criti-cally depends on progress in context capturing andespecially its high-level interpretation (Schmidt elat., 1999).
The use of more sophisticated AI tech-niques could account for the uncertainty involved inattention space modeling and the indeterminism inmapping pragmatic features to grammatical mark-ers.
As more hardware and software becomes avail-able and integrated towards the end of the CO.MRISproject, we plan to perform real-world experiments.We can already evaluate our strategy by comparingresults groin generation with and without consider-lug context, the former producing more varying andmore natural output?
Our major contribution con-sists in linking work on focus of attention to real-time monitoring and modeling of different hearercontext dimensions and in providing a framework forexperimentation a d elaboration of NLG techniquesfor lhe interaction devices of the future: wearables.229Acknowledgments We appreciated the supportof Stephan Busemann w.r.t, the use of TG/2.
Wal-ter Van de Velde, Kristiina Jokinen and JacquesTerken provided interesting feedback on the ideasdeveloped here.
Many thanks also to the partnersof the COMRIS project who are concerned withintegrating the different modules, especially StefanHaustein and Ronald Schroten.
This work is fundedby the EU LTR research project COMRIS (LTR-25500) within the framework of I3 (Intelligent Inter-action Interfaces),Re ferencesG.
Benelli, A. Bianchi, P. Marti, E. Not, and D. Sen-nati.
1999.
Hips: Hyper-interaction within phys-ical space.
In Proc.
of IEEE'99, Florence.P.
Bosch and R. van der Sandt, editors, 1999.
Fo-cus: Linguistic, Cognitive gfl Computational Per-spectives, chapter Preface.
Studies in natural lan-guage processing.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.S.
Busemann.
1996.
Best-first surface realization.In D. Scott, editor, Proe.
of the 8th Intl.
workshopon Natural Language Generation, pages 101-1 t0,Herstmonceux Castle.
University of Brigthon,UK.W.
Chafe.
1987.
Cognitive constraints on informa-tion flow.
In R.S.
Tomlin, editor, Coherence and9rounding in discourse, pages 21-50.
John Ben-jamins B.V.R.
De Vaul, B. Clarkson, and A.Sandy Pent-land.
2000.
The memory glasses: towards awearable, context aware, situation-appropriate re-minder system.
In Preprints of the CHI-2000workshop on Situated interaction in ubiquitouscomputing, number 2000-7 in Interner Berieht,Computer Science Department, Ka~lsruhe, Ger-m any.S.
Geldof.
1999a.
Parrot-talk requires multiple con-text.
dimensions.
In Proc.
of the ~2nd Intl.
and In-terdisciplinary Conference on CONTEXT, num-ber 1688 in LNAI, pages 467-470, Heidelberg.Springer Verlag.S.
Geldof.
1999b.
Templates for wearables in con-text.
In T. Becker and S. Busemann, editors.
"May I speak frcely?"
Between templates and freechoice in natural language generatwt~.
Workshopat ttle 23rd German Annual Conference for AI(h'I991, DFKI-D-99-01, Saarbri.icken.
DFKI.B.J.
Grosz and C.L.
Sidner.
1986..Attention, in-tentions and the structure of discourse.
Computa-tiotml Lit2gttzstics, 12(3):175-204.E.tt.
ltovy.
1990.
Pragmaticsand natural anguagegeneral ion.
.4 rl~ficml h#elligem'e, 43(2):153 198.1998.
Proc.
hderm\]twnal IIorkshop ors .Vatu-r,I l.,nqua.q~ Gcllerattotl.
Niagara-~m-lhc-lake.Canada.K.
Jokinen, H. Tanaka, and A. Yokoo.
1998.
Plan-ning,dialogue ?ontribu/;ions:with new iaformation.In INLG98 (INL, 1998), pages 158-167.R.
Klabunde and M. Jansche.
1998.
Abductive rea-soning for syntactic realisations.
In INLG98 (INL,1998), pages 108-117.E.
Krahmer and M. Theune.
1998.
Context-sensitive generation of descriptions.
In Proc.
ofthe 5th Intl.
Conf.
on Spoken language processing(ICSLP'98), pages 1151-1154.K.
Lambrecht.
1994.
Information structure andSentence Form.
Cambridge University Press, NewYork (NY).M.
Maybury.
1991.
Topical, temporal and spa-tial constraints on linguistic realization.
Compu-tational Intelligence, 7:266-275.K.F.
McCoy and J. Cheng.
1991.
Focus of atten-tion: constraining what can be said next.
In C.L.Paris, W.R. Swartout, and W.C. Mann, editors,Natural language generation in Artificial Intelli-gence and Computational Linguistics, pages 103-124.
Kluwer Academic Publishers, Norwell, MA.C.L.
Paris.
1988.
Tailoring object descriptions to auser's level of expertise.
Computational Linguis-tics, special issue on User Modeling, 14(3):64-78,September.M.
Rats.
1996.
Topic management in informationdialogues.
PhD dissertation, Katholieke Univer-siteit Brabant, Tilburg, NL.N.
Sawhney and C. Schmandt.
1999.
Nomadicradio: Scaleable and contextual notification forwearable audio messaging.
In Proe.
of CHI'99,the ACM SIGCHI Conference on Human Factorsin Computing Systems, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.A.
Schmidt, K.A.
Aidoo, A. Takaluoma,U.
Tuomela, K. Van Laerhoven, and W. Van deVelde.
1999.
Advanced interaction in context.
InH.
Gellersen, editor, P~vc.
of Intl.
workshop onHaudheld and Ubiquitous Computing (HUC991,number 1707 ill LNCS, Heidelberg, Germany.Springer Verlag.\V.
Van de Velde, R. Schrooten.
and S. Geldof.1998.
Competition for attention.
In M.P.
Singh.A.S.
Rao.
and M.J. Wooldridge, editors, Proe.
ofA724L: 4th Int.
Workshop on AgeTd Thcorzc~.
Ar-chdectures and Languages, volume 11165 of LNA/,pages 282-296.
Springer Verlag, Heidelberg.J.
Verschueren.
1995.
The pragmatics perspective.In J. Verschueren.
J O. Oestman.
and J. Blom-maert, editors, Handbook of Pragmatlcs, pages 1-19.
John Benjamins Publishing Co., Amsterdam.230
