Similarities and Differences among Semantic Behaviors ofJapanese Adnominal ConstituentsKyoko Kanzaki and Qing Ma and Hitoshi IsaharaCommunications Research Laboratory588-2, Iwaoka, Iwaoka-cho, Nishi-ku, Kobe, 651-2492, Japan{kanzakilqma\[isahara} @crl.go.jpAbst rac tThis paper treats the classification of the se-mantic functions performed by adnominal con-stituents in Japanese, where many parts ofspeech act as adnominal constituents.
In orderto establish a formal treatment of the semanticroles, the similarities and differences among ad-nominal constituents, i.e.
adjectives and "noun+ NO (in English "of + noun")" structures,which have a broad range of semantic func-tions, are discussed.
This paper also proposesan objective method of classifying these con-structs using a large amount of linguistic data.The feasibility of this was verified with a self-organizing semantic map based on a neural net-work model.1 In t roduct ionPustejovsky (Pustejovsky, 1995) proposed thetheory of a generative l xicon as a framework bywhich meanings of words are expressed in oneunified representation.
This kind ofgenerativitywould be very useful for NLP, especially if it isapplicable to the complex semantic structuresrepresented by various modification relations.In our previous research on adjectives (Isaharaand Kanzaki, 1999) we used Pustejovsky's the-ory to classify adjectives in Japanese.
In this pa-per we take the first steps in a similar classifica-tion of the Japanese "noun + NO" construction.Bouillon (Bouillon, 1996) applied this theoryto the adnominal constituent of mental states.Saint-Dizier (Saint-Dizier, 1998) discussed ad-jectives in French.Isahara and Kanzaki (Isahara and Kanzaki,1999) treated a much wider range of phenom-ena of adnominal constituents.
They classifiedthe semantic roles of adnominal constituentsin .Japanese.
where many parts of speech actas adnominal constituents, and discussed a for-mal treatment of their semantic roles.
In theirresearch, adnominal constituents, mainly ad-jectives which function as adverbials, are dis-cussed.
The present paper describes the sim-ilarities and differences among adnominal con-stituents, i.e.
adjectives and "noun + NO t (inEnglish "of + noun")" structures which havea broad range of semantic functions.
This pa-per proposes an objective method for classifyingthese structures using a large amount of linguis-tic data.
The feasibility of this was verified witha self-organizing semantic map based on a neu-ral network model.In section 2, we explain the semantic func-tions performed by "noun + NO."
In section3, we discuss how we can semi-automaticallyobtain and classify examples of adjectives and"noun + NO" structures which have similar se-mantic functions.
In section 4, we introduce aself-organizing semantic map to verify the resultof this classification.
In section 5, we discusssimilarities and differences between adjectivesand "noun + NO" structures.2 The  D ivers i ty  o f  Semant icRe la t ions  between "noun -t- NO"and  the i r  Head NounsAmong Japanese adnominal constituents, "noun + NO" represents a wider range of seman-tic relations than other adnominal constituents.Therefore, "noun + NO" does not always be-have like the other adnominal constituents.
Inprevious work, some researchers have analyzedsemantic relations between the noun in the"noun + NO" structure and its head noun (Shi-mazu et al, 1986).
Here, we show several ex-amples that demonstrate he diversity of the se-l "NO" is a Japanese postpositiona| which can repre-sent a wide range of semantic relations.
It is similar to"of" in English.59mantic relation between "noun + NO" struc-tures and their head nouns shown in their re-search.DENWA NO SECCHIDENSHA NO TUUKINASHITA NO DEITOBILU NO MAEKODOMO NO NAMAEBAKUHATSU NO GEN'INKAISHI NO JIKOKUHEYA NO BANGOUKANOJO NO NOUTOBENGOSHI NO SMITH SANinstallation ofthe telephonecommuting bytraina date fortomorrowin front ofthe buildingthe name ofthe childthe cause ofthe explosionthe starting timethe number ofthe roomher noteMr.
Smith,the lawyerThese semantic relations between "noun +NO" structures and their head nouns are dif-ferent than those between other adnominal con-stituents, e.g.
adjectives and their head nouns.However, some "noun + NO" behavior is sim-ilar to the behavior of adjectives and nominaladjectivals.
In these cases "noun + NO" seemsnot to differ semantically from adjectives andnominal adjectivals.
Let us consider the Englishexamples:financial world / world of finance ("ZAIKAI")industrial center / center of industry("SANGYOU NO CHUUSHIN")In this case "noun + NO" need not be dis-tinguished from an adjective with respect o se-mantic behavior.
However, in the following ex-amples it is necessary to distinguish them fromone another.global center / center of tile globe("SEKAI NO CHUUSHIN/ CHIKYUU NO CHUUSHIN")We do not have a discrimination criteria thatautomatically recognizes whether a "noun +NO" structure is similar in its semantic behav-ior to that of adjectives or not.
We have at-tempted to gather, semi-automatically, nolms inthe "n(mn + NO" structure which behave likeadjectives.3 The  Exp lorat ion  o f  the  S imi la r i t ieso f  Semant ic  Funct ions  o f  "noun +NO"  St ructures  and  Ad jec t ives .
(The  Method  for th is  Research)3.1 The Basic ConceptThere is one case in which the meanings of ad-nominal constituents are semantically similarto the features of the referents of their headnouns, e.g.
adnominal constituents representthe concrete contents of their head nouns.
Letus consider the Japanese phrase "KANASHIIKIMOCHI (sad feeling)" and "YOROKOBI NOKIMOCHI (feeling of delight)" as examples.KANASHII KIMOCHIadjective noun(sad) (feeling)sad feelingYOROKOBI NO KIMOCHInoun postp, noun(delight) (of) (feeling)feeling of delightNB: The English gloss of the "noun + NO"examples hould be read from right to left.One meaning of "KIMOCHI (feeling)" repre-sents the semantic element <mental state>.
Inthe above examples, the adjective, "KANASHII(sad)", and "noun + NO", "YOROKOBI NO(of delight)", represent he concrete contentsof their head noun "KIMOCHI (feeling)", i.e.they also represent the mental state: "feeling".Therefore, even though they belong to differentparts of speech (adjective/noun), they must beclassified in the same semantic category sinceboth carry the same meaning.
Neither the ad-jective, "KANASHII (sad)", nor the "noun +NO", "YOROKOBI NO (of delight)", can ap-pear in predicative position without changingtheir meaning.However, if adnominal constituents do notshare the same semantic oncept as their headnoun, they cannot represent he contents ofhead nouns.
The examples below demonstratethis.KANASHII KIMOCHIadje(:tive noun(sad) (feeling)JOHN NO KIMOCHInoun postp, noun(John) (of) (feeling)John's feeling60In the above examples, the noun in "noun +NO", "JOHN", does not include the concept,<mental state>, so it cannot represent the con-tent of "KIMOCHI (feeling)."
The adjective,"KANASHII (sad)", and the noun in the "noun+ NO", "JOHN" do not embody the same con-cept and have a different semantic relation withtheir head noun.
We cannot find the seman-tic similarities between "KANASHII (sad)" and"JOHN" that we could between "YOROKOBINO (of delight)" and "KANASHII (sad)."
Wefocus on the phenomena where adnominal con-stituents represent the concrete contents of theirhead nouns.
This makes it possible to identifyadjectives and "noun + NO" structures whichare similar in semantic behavior to the referentsof their head nouns.
These expressions are ex-tracted semi-automatically from large corpora.3.2 How to Ext ract  the NecessaryIn format ionWhen we collect words which have some sim-ilarities, it is difficult to select the semanticaxis for classification by making use of onlythe co-occurring words.
In collecting similarwords, some previous research took not only co-occurring words but also the context of thesewords into account (Grefenstette, 1994).
Oneof the important points of our analysis is theintroduction of the distinct semantic elementsthat both "noun + NO" structures and adjecti-vals (adjectives and nominals) have in commonwith their head nouns.
We wanted to ascertainthe similarities between "noun + NO" and otheradnominal constituents based on these commonsemantic elements.
For this reason, we usedthe semantic relations, in which adnominal con-stituents represent the concrete content of theirhead nouns, as a key to classification.
We au-tomatically 2 extracted these relations from oneyear of newspaper articles from Mainichi Shim-bun (1994), 100 novels from Shincho publishersand 100 books covering a variety of topics.
Weused the following procedure to extract he nec-essary information.Step 1) Extract from the corpora, all nounswhich are preceded by the Japanese xpression"TOIU" which is something like "that" or "of.
""TOIU + noun (noun that/of ...)" is a typical,Japanese xpression which introduces ome in-2Only Step 3) is done manually.formation about the referent of the noun, suchas apposition.
Therefore, nouns found in thispattern may have their content elucidated bymeans of their modifiers.Step 2) Extract from the corpora, all "noun+ NO" structures, adjectives and nominal ad-jectivals which modify the nouns extracted instep 1.NB, the relationships between adnominalconstituents and their modified nouns extractedhere include not only representations of the con-tents of the noun, but also other various rela-tions.Step 3) Extract "noun + NO" structures, ad-jectives and nominal adjectivals which representthe contents of the referents of the modifiednouns.
Step 3 is done manually.Step 4) In order to find the distribution oftheir semantic ategories and analyze the se-mantic similarities between "noun + NO" andother adnominal constituents in each semanticcategory, we clustered the modified nouns auto-matically.
This clustering was based on sets ofsimilar adnominal constituents which representthe content of the referent of the modified noun.4 The  Semant ic  Map of  theMod i f ied  Nouns  Const ructed  bythe Self-Organizing System of theNeural Network ModelWe can gather similar modified nouns when weclassify the modified nouns according to thesimilarities of the adnominal constituents, be-cause in our data both adnominal constituentsand their modified nouns have the same se-mantic elements in common that we mentionedabove.We attempted toconstruct the Semantic Mapof the modified nouns gathered by the above-mentioned method by using the self-organizingsystem of the neural network model (Ma et al,2000).
We suppose that both modified nounsand adnominal constituents have common se-rnantic elements when adnominal constituentsrepresent he concrete content of their headnouns.
If this is true, nouns with similar mean-ings are located near each other oil the semanticmap, self-organized by the similarities of seman-tic elements among the adnominal constituents.The result of our experiment verified this sup-position (Figure I).
The nouns with a similar61meaning are located near each other on the mapand we could divide the distribution of the mod-ified nouns into seven categories (Figure 2).Each group, i.e.
the "mental state"group, "state/ situation" group, "characteris-tics" group, "range/ area" group, "viewpoint/standpoint" group, "aspect" group, and "oth-ers," represents a meaning held in common bynouns in the group.
Mental state can be fur-ther divided into the state of emotion, moodand intention.
As we analyze the adnominalconstituents in each category of modified nouns,we can find the possibility of the co-occurrenceof an adnominal constituent with a head noun.Table 1 shows examples of adjectives and nounsin "noun + NO" structures in each group.UT~A?Table 1: List of adjectives and "noun + NO"Structures<menta l  state: emot ion>Adj: KANASHII (sad), URESHII(pleasurable)noun+no: KANASHIMI (sadness),YOROKOBI (delight)<state /s i tuat ion>Adj: ISOGASHII (busy),MUTITUJONA (disorderly)noun+no: KURAYAMI (darkness),MUISHIKI (unconscious)<aspect>Adj: YUUMOUNA (brave),HIGEKITEKINA (tragic)noun+no: KONTON (chaos), TAIHAI(decadence)<character i s t i c>Adj: NONKINA (carefree),KISAKUNA (open-hearted)noun+no: I J IPPARI (stubbornness),GOUMANNA (arrogance)<range/area>Adj: JOUSHIKITEKINA (comnmnsense),KOUTEKINA (official)noun+no: GAKUMON (studies), GYOUMU(duty)<v iewpo int / s tandpo in t>Adj: KYOUIKUTEKINA (educational),SHOUGYOUTEKINA (economic)noun+no: KYOUIKU (education), EISEI(hygiene)Figure 1: Semantic Map 1Figure 2: Semantic Map 2In the mental state, state/situation, aspectand characteristics groups~ adjectives appearmore frequently than "noun + NO" construc-tions.
These are simple adjectives.
Ill therange/area nd viewpoint/standpoint groups,62"noun + NO" structures appear more fre-quently than simple adjectives.
Nominal adjec-tivals derived from nouns plus the suffix "TEKI-na" appear often with these noun groups.
Mostnouns in the groups "mental state: emotion","state/situation" and "characteristics", containabstract nouns which represent emotions, situa-tions or characteristics.
There are few concretenouns.
However, in the groups "range/area"and "viewpoint/standpoint', here are manyconcrete nouns which represent natural phe-nomena, organizations or professional domainsand few abstract nouns.
We can find differencesamong "noun + NO" structures, that is, thereare adjectives which behave like nouns semanti-cally and there are nouns which behave seman-tically like adjectives.5 The  semant ic  behav ior  o f  the"noun -t- NO"  s t ruc ture  wh ich  iss imi la r  to  that  o f  ad jec t ives5.1 Types  of nouns in the "noun -'t-NO"  s t ruc tureAs we mentioned in section 3, we extracted the"noun + NO" structures which have the samesemantic element, along with similar adjectives,from large corpora.
For example,KIKEN_NA JOUTAI(dangerous) (situation)dangerous ituationIn this case "dangerous" represents the stateconcretely.MIKETTEI NO JOUTAI(indecision) (of) (situation)a situation of indecisionIn this case, the "MIKETTEI NO (of in-decision)" also represents the state concretely.Here, both "KIKENN_NA (dangerous)" and"MIKETTEI NO (of indecision)" have tile samesemantic element "state" in common.
We findthat a "situation" can be represented by bothan adjective and the "noun + NO" structure.When "MIKETTEI NO (of indecision)" co-occurs with modified nouns other than "situa-tion", it mostly represents the semantic notion,e.g.
"MIKETTEI NO MONDAI (a problem ofindecision)", and so on.
That is,"MIKETTEINO (of indecision)," represents the situation ofa problem.
So we see that "MIKETTEI NO (ofindecision)" is in itself like an adjective.On the other hand, "KUMORI NO (cloudi-ness)" behaves ometimes like an adjective andsometimes not.KUMORI NO JOUTAI(cloudiness) (of) (state)a state of cloudinessThe semantic behavior of "KUMORI NO(of cloudiness)" is like the behavior of adjec-tives in that the cloudiness represents the stateas "KIKEN_NA (dangerous)," however, "KU-MORI NO (of cloudiness)" does not always rep-resent the state of the referent of the modifiednoun though "MIKETTEI NO (of indecision)"always represents that.
"KUMORI (cloudi-ness)" is a natural phenomenon which can bepointed to concretely.
For example,KUMORI NO NISSU(cloudiness) (of) (amount)WA 4 GATU NI SITEWA IJOU DA.The amount of cloudiness is unusual for April.In this example, "KUMORI NO (of cloudi-ness)" modifies "NISSU (the amount)," anddoes not represent a state but the possessor ofthe amount.As the examples of "MIKETTEI NO (ofindecision)" and "KUMORI NO (of cloudi-ness)" show, there are nouns which have thesame properties as adjectives intrinsically (e.g.
"MIKETTEI (indecision)"), and other nounswhich intrinsically have different propertiesfrom adjectives (e.g.
"KUMORI (cloudiness)").So, it is important o consider the properties ofthe noun in "noun + NO" when we analyze the"noun + NO" which behaves emantically likean adjective.
Such an analysis enables us to findthe situation in which they act like adjectives.We classified nouns in "noun + NO" structuresinto three types based on what the nouns referto.
Nouns from the last category, 3), are similarto adjectives emantically.
As adjectives do notrepresent concrete objects or verb-like notions,nouns from these categories only occasionallyresemble adjectives.63Noun Categories:1) nouns which refer to concrete objects.
(likerain, book, science, and so on)2) nominalizations (like decision, work, and soon)3) nouns which belong to neither 1) nor 2),e.g.
abstract nouns and so on.As our corpora contain mainly newspaper ar-ticles, many compound nouns appear.
Since thelast word in a compound noun determines theproperties of the whole word, we focus on thelast word in classifying them.Table 2 contains examples of the noun cate-gories.
"KOUGYOU TOSHI (industry city)" isan example of a compound noun where the lastword "TOSHI (city)" determines the properties.Table 2: Some "noun + NO" constructions with"impression"1) nouns which refer to concrete objectsKOUGYOU TOSHI, HINOKI(industry city) (cypress)2) nominalizationsSOKUBAKU, KOUTEN(restriction) (improvement)3) nouns which belong to neither 1) nor 2)MUTONTYAKU, JAKUSHOU(carelessness) (weakness)In the following section, we analyze the sim-ilarities and differences of the semantic behav-ior of "noun + NO" structures and adjectives.Firstly, we describe the case in which the se-mantic behavior of "noun + NO" is similar tothat of adjectives and then we mention the casein which the semantic behavior of "noun + NO"is different from that of adjectives.
Secondly, weanalyze several types of nouns in "noun + NO"which behave like adjectives, ewm though nounsin "noun + NO" are not intrinsically similar toadjectiw; types.5.2 The di f ferences of semant icbehav ior  between nouns  in "noun-b NO"  and adject ivesFor example, "KANASHII (sad)", "URESHII(pleasurable)", "ZANNEN_NA (regrettable)","KANASHIMI NO (of sadness)", "YOROKOBINO (of delight)" and so on, modify nounssuch as "OMOI (thought)", "KANJI (emo-tion)" and so on.
Using a set of adnomi-nal constituents, such as "KANASHII (sad)","URESHII (pleasurable)", "ZANNEN..NA (re-grettable)", as keys for classification, we canclassify the modified nouns, "OMOI (thought)","KANJI (feeling)" and so on, into the samegroup.
Then we can find a semantic relation-ship between these adnominal constituents andtheir head nouns, in this case, <emotion>.
Inthe following, we describe the similar and dif-fering semantic behaviors of "noun ?
NO" andother adjectives in the same semantic ategory.As we described in the previous ection, we ex-tract sets of "noun + NO" structures and ad-jectives from data which was sorted semanti-cally.
Words in each set represent he seman-tic substance of the similar nouns which theymodify.
Therefore, their semantic categoriesare similar.
Examples of modified nouns of asimilar semantic category and their modifierswhich have a semantic ategory similar to thatof the nouns are listed in Table 3.
Included aresome "noun ?
NO" examples which though co-occurring with <mental state> nouns are notclassified as such themselves.
There are manyadjectives and nominal adjectivals which canmodify nouns in Table 3, such as "AWARENA(poor)", "IJIRASHII (moving)" and "HOKO-RASHII (triumphant)."
Some "noun ?
NO"structures are semantically similar to these ad-jectives ince they represent the contents of theemotion, e.g.
"FUKAI NO KAN (sensation ofdispleasure)" and "YOROKOBI NO KIMOCHI(feeling of delight)."
Most nouns in these "noun+ NO" structures in Table 3 are classified into"mental activity by humans" by the "Word ListClassified by Semantic Principles3. ''
"Noun +NO" structures, which have this kind of seman-tic; category, are similar to adjectives and nom-inal adjectivals, as both represent he contentof the human mind.
We call this semantic at-'~This list was compiled by The Natural Language Re-search Institute, Tokyo.64Table 3: The modified nouns and adjectives,nominal adjectivals, and "noun + NO"collected in the semantic ategory,<mental state>Modi f ied nounsKANJI (feeling), KAN (sensation),OMOI (thought), KI (intention),NEN (inclination), KIMOCHI (mind),KIBUN (mood), KANJO (emotion),JO (passion)Adject ives  and nominal  adject ivalsAWARE_NA (poor), IJIRASHII (moving),HOKORASHII (triumphant),KINODOKU_NA (unfortunate),SHIAWASE_NA (happy),ZANNEN_NA (disappointing),URESHII (pleasurable), ...and so on.
"Nouns"  in the "noun + NO"  s t ruc turea) mental  act iv i tyKANASHIMI (sadness), FUKAI (displeasure),SHITASHIMI (familiarity),ZOUO (abhorrence), GAMAN (endurance),KOUKAI (regret), YOROKOBI (joy),MANZOKU (satisfaction),RAKUTAN (disappointment),IGAI (unexpected), ...and so on.b) nominal izat ionsHOSHIN (self-defense),CHIKUZAI (moneymaking),INTAI (retirement), HIHAN (criticism),HIYAKU (rapid progress), ...and so onegory created by these adnominal constituentsand their modified nouns "Feeling.
"On the other hand, some adnominal rela-tionships concerning a mental state can onlybe represented by "noun + NO" structures,such as "HOSHIN NO KIMOCHI (desire of de-fending one's own interest)," "CHIKUZAI NONEN (thought of moneymaking)" and "INTAINO KIMOCHI (idea of retirement)."
Eventnouns are mainly used in these "noun + NO"structures.
Adnominal modifying relations of"nominalization + NO + mental state_noun"structures represent an intentional mental state.This kind of intentional mental state cannot beexpressed by adjectives.
We call this semanticcategory "Intentional mental state.
"We discussed two types of semantic represen-tations above, i.e.
Feeling and Intentional men-tal state.
Feeling can be represented by adjec-tives and "noun + NO" structures.
However,Intentional mental state can be representedonly by "noun + NO" structures.
From thestandpoint of the characteristics of the modifiednouns (they represent human mental states),these two mental activities (Feeling and Inten-tional mental state) are similar, even thoughthere are .differences in whether the activity isintentional or not.
However, from the stand-point of the selection of an adnominal relation-ship in the surface structure, whether the activ-ity has active intention or not will be the decid-ing factor for the selection between adjectivesand "noun + NO" structures.5.3 The case where  the semant icbehav ior  of "noun + NO"structures is similar to that ofadjectivesHere we focus on nouns whose properties areunlike those of adjectives, i.e.
the nouns whichrefer to concrete objects, verbal notions and soon.
(1) In the case where "noun + NO" representscharacteristics, there is some overlap be-tween the semantic behavior of adjectivesand "noun + NO" structures.I) The case where the noun in "noun + NO"is a compound nounLet us compare "noun + NO" with adjectiveusage.MUKUCHI_NA INSHOU(reticent) (impression)GA TUYOI JOHN-SAN WA ""Jotm who makes a reticent impression "-"KOUGYOUTOSHI NO INSHOU(industry city) (of) (impression)GA TUYOI KAWASAKISHI WA...65KAWASAKI city which gives a strong im-pression of an industrial city 4b) Modified nouns which represent instancesof the concrete nouns in compound nounsIn the previous two examples, the differencesbetween "noun + NO" and adjectives dependonly on whether the nouns they modify rep-resent a person or a city where both headnouns have characteristics in common.
How-ever, "KOUGYOUTOSHI (industry city)" doesnot always have the same semantic relation tothe modified noun, as seen in the following ex-ample:KOUGYOUTOSHI NO YUKYUTI(industry city) (of) (vacant land)NI TYAKUMOKU.They noticed the vacant landin the industrial city.In this example, the semantic relation be-tween "KOUGYOUTOSHI NO (of industrycity)" and "YUKYUTI (the vacant land)" indi-cate the relation of possession so that it is not asemantic relation that adjectives can represent.When the modified nouns are abstract nounsthat represent the property ("INSHOU (impres-sion)" or "SEIKAKU (characteristics)" etc.
), orinstances of the concrete nouns in compoundnouns ("KAWASAKI SHI (KAWASAKI city)"),the semantic function of compound nouns in"noun + NO" constructions represent the char-acteristics of the referent of the modified nounsas adjectives do.a) Modified nouns which are abstract nounsthat represent a property.KOUGYOUTOSHI NO IMEJI(industry city) (of) (image)GA OOKII.The image of an industrial city is strong.KOUKYUUHIN NO INSHOU(high quality item) (of) (impression)GA TUYOI SHANERU(with) CHANNEL the impression ofa high-quality item is strong.4Note that some words which are nouns in Japanese(e.g.
industry, high quality)must be translated as adjec-tiw~ in English (e.g.
industrial, high-quality)<city-SUZUKA-SHI>KOUGYOUTOSHI NO SUZUKA SHI(industry city) (of) (SUZUKA city)SUZUKA city which is an industrial city<item-diamonds>KOUKYUUHIN NO DAIYA(high quality item) (of) (diamond)Diamonds are a high-quality item<company-IBM>YURYOUGAISHA NO(excellent company) (of)IBM is an excellent companyIBMWhen the modified noun is an instanceof the last word of the modifying com-pound noun, the semantic function of thewhole compound noun is similar to thatof adjectives because, in this type of com-pound, we focus on the adjectival semanticelement.
For example, "KOUGYOU (indus-try)" in "KOUGYOUTOSHI (industry city)","KOUKYUU (high-quality)" in "KOUKYU-UHIN (high quality item)", and "YUURYOU(excellent)" in "YUURYOUGAISHA (excellentcompany)" are adjectival.II) the nouns that refer to the concrete objectin "noun + NO"Originally the nouns that refer to a concreteobject or event do not have the same meaning asadjectives, however, they have similar semanticbehavior to that of adjectives in the followingcase.KARE WA OTONASHII KIHUU(mild) (disposition)NO MOTINUSHI DA.He has a mild disposition.The "mild" represents he characteristic (dis-position).
In the following examples the "noun+ NO" also indicate the characteristics of some-thing.66KODOMOTACHI WA ... MASSUGUNOBIRUHINOKI(HINOKI-tree)These childrenNO INSHOU(of) (impression)GA ARIMASHITA.give the impression of aHINOKI-tree which grows straight.KAGAKUGAISHA TOIU KOTODE IPPANNO HITO NIWAKANKYOUOSEN NO INSHOU(environment pollution) (of) (impression)impression of environmental pollutionGA TUYOKATTA.Ordinary people have a strong impression ofenvironmental pollution from the chemicalcompany.The impression the children make is of a"HINOKI (HINOKI-tree)" and the impressionthe chemical company makes is of "KANKY-OUOSEN (environmental pollution)".
These"noun + NO'structures represent he charac-teristics of children and a company in samemanner that the adjective "mild" indicates hischaracteristic.
In these examples, nouns in"noun + NO" represent objects and events andso on, i.e.
"HINOKI-tree" and "environmentalpollution" these nouns ordinarily do not behavelike adjectives.
That is, the adjective "mild"can represent a characteristic directly, however,these nouns in "noun + NO" cannot representthe characteristics of something directly.
Wecannot say "that children are HINOKI-tree"and "the company is the environmental pollu-tion" while we can say "He is mild."
That is, inthis case, "noun + NO" cannot appear in thepredicative position with this meaning.
Whenwe show the characteristics of something by us-ing nouns that refer to concrete objects andevents, we need to specify the modified nounswhich indicate the characteristics like "impres-sion, .... disposition" and so on.
(2) "Noun + NO" can represent quantification.Some adjectives (:an also represent quantifi-cation.NIHON NO.HASHIMOTO SHUSHOU NOTEIAN WA AIKAWARAZU67TYUUSHOUTEKI_NA IKI(abstract) (level)NI TODOMATTA.The suggestion of the Japanese prime minis-ter, Hashimoto, was still in an abstract state.HUSAINO HIRITU GA KAKEI NI TOTTEKIKEN_NA IKI NI TASSHITEIRU.
(dangerous) (level)The rate of debt has reached a dangerouslevel for the household budget.The suggestion of the Japanese prime min-ister is at an "abstract" level on the "concrete-abstract" scale and the rate of debt is at a "dan-gerous" level on the "safety-dangerous" scale.The level of concreteness and safety is repre-sented by adjectives.
On the other hand, thenouns that refer to concrete objects and verbalnotions also represent a level by inference fromthe context.
We can infer the scale from thecontextual situation.
For example,KOUNIN KOUHO WAUWASA NO DANKAI(rumor) (of) (stage)the stage of rumorDA GA BORUGA SHIThough it is completely at the stage of ru-mor, the candidate for the succession is Mr.Borgar ...SHUSHOU GAWA WA ""(the prime minister and his staff)ENZETU NO IKI(speech) (of) (level)WO KOERARENAKATTA.Though the prime minister and his staff said"we will specify the guidelines of the govern-ment proposal during the election", after allit was still at the level of speech.GIJUTUTEKINIWAKANSEI NO IKI(completeness) (of) (level)NI TASSHITEITA.It reached a level of completeness, technically.In the above case, we do not have a seman-tic element of actual "talk" in the "rumor"or "speech" meaning nor a semantic element"event" in the "completeness" meaning, but wehave the level of "rumor" on the "truth-rumor"scale, the level of "speech" on the "statement-speech" scale and the level of "completeness" onthe "incompleteness-completeness" scale.
Thenouns that refer to concrete objects and verbalactions are similar to adjectives when they rep-resent a level in context.6 Conc lus ionIn this paper, we discussed the similaritiesand differences among adnominal constituents,i.e.
adjectives and "noun + NO" structureswhich have a broad range of semantic functions.Nouns and adjectives differ in part of speech,but they sometimes have similarities when usedadnominally.
In such a case, we need not dis-tinguish them from each other semantically.
Weinvestigated explicit criteria to detect similari-ties and differences between nouns and adjec-tives in adnominal usage.
This research was ver-ified by using large corpora and a self-organizingmapping system based on the neural networkmodel.
In future work, we will attempt o sys-tematically classify words used adnominally ac-cording to the semantic behavior of adnominalconstituents following the theoretical insights ofPustejovsky.AcknowledgmentWe would like to thank Catherine Macleod ofNew York University and Kiyotaka Uchimotoof the Communications Research Laboratory fortheir invaluable help in writing this paper.ReferencesP.
Bouillon.
1996.
Mental State Adjectives: thePerspective of Generative Lexicon.
In Proc.of COLING96.G.
Grefenstette.
1994.
Corpus-Derived First,Second and Third-Order Word Affinities.
In 'Proc.
off the EURALEX '9~.H.
Isahara and K. Kanzaki.
1999.
Lexical Se-mantics to Disambiguate Polysemous Phe-nomena of Japanese Adnominal Constituents.In Proc.
of A CL99.Q.
Ma, K. Kanzaki, M. Murata, K. Uchi-moto, and H. Isahara.
2000.
Constructionof a Japanese Semantic Map using Self-Organizing Neural Network Model.
In 6thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Nat-ural Language Processing, Japan.
(will ap-pear).J.
Pustejovsky.
1995.
The Generative Lexicon.The MIT Press.P.
Saint-Dizier.
1998.
A Generative Lex-icon Perspective for Adjectival Modifica-tion.
In Proc.
of the Conference volume2in 36th Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics and 17thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics(COLING-A CL '98).A.
Shimazu, S. Naito, and H. Nomura.
1986.Analysis of semantic relations between ounsconnected by a Japanese particle "no".Keiryo Kokugogaku (Mathematical Linguis-tics), 15(7).
(in Japanese).68
