Can text structure be incompat ib le  with rhetorical structure?Nadjet Bouayad-Agha,  Richard Power and Donia  ScottInformation Technology Research InstituteUniversity of BrightonLewes RoadBrighton BN2 4G J, UKfirst name.
lastname@it ri.bton.ac.ukAbstractScott and Souza (1990) have posed the problemof how a rhetorical structure (in which proposi-tions are linked by rhetorical relations, but notyet arranged in a linear order) can be realizedby a text structure (in which propositions areordered and linked up by appropriate discourseconnectives).
Almost all work on this problemassumes, implicitly or explicitly, that this map-ping is governed by a constraint on compatibil-ity of structure.
We show how this constraintcan be stated precisely, and present some coun-terexamples which seem acceptable ven thoughthey violate compatibility.
The examples arebased on a phenomenon we call extraposition,in which complex embedded constituents of arhetorical structure are extracted and realizedseparately.1 Introduct ionText planning (or more broadly, document plan-ning) can be divided into two stages.
In thefirst stage, material is selected, perhaps from aknowledge base, and organized rhetorically.
Inthe second stage, the rhetorical structure is re-alized by a text structure (or document struc-ture), through which the material is distributedamong sentences, paragraphs, vertical lists, andperhaps even diagrams.
The RAtS (1999) pro-posal for a standard NLG architecture distin-guishes tile outputs of these two phases by thedata types l:l.hetRep (rhetorical representation)and DocRep (document representation).We focus in this paper on the  second stageof text planning - -  the passage from RhetRepto DocRep.
NLG researchers have addressedthis issue in various ways, but everyone as-sumes some kind of structural compatibility be-tween rhetorical structure and text structure.The most popular discourse framework in NLGis R ST (Mann a.nd Thompson.
1988).
whichmakes the crucial distinction between nucleus,which is the most important part of a message,and satellite, which is the peripheral part of themessage.
Scott and Souza (1990) provide guide-lines for the realisation of RST trees into a co-herent text.
One of them is to avoid danglingsentences, that is, to avoid putting "informationthat is only weakly relevant o the message" ina separate sentence because it will feel as if ithas been introduced as an afterthought or asintroducing a new topic which is then abruptlyabandoned, disrupting the comprehensibility ofthe text.
As an example, the authors providethe attributive satellite of an elaboration rela-tion.Marcu (1996), in order to build a valid textplan from a set of rhetorical assertions, usesthe "nuclearity principle", that is the observa-tion in Mann and Thompson's framework that"whenever two large text spans are connectedthrough a rhetorical relation, that rhetorical re-lation holds also between the most importantparts of the constituent spans".
Therefore, theresulting text plans are valid in the sense thatthey are isomorphic with one of the rhetoricalstructures that can be built from the rhetoricalassertions using this nuclearity principle.Our aim in this paper is to formulate moreprecisely a notion of structural compatibilitywhich is necessary in order to describe the real-isation of a RhetRep into various DocReps, andthen .to discuss some examples (mostly takenfrom the domain of patient information leaflets)of apparently acceptable texts in which this no-.tion of compatibility is violated..:To discussthis issue clearly, an assmnption must be madeabout the kinds of information represented byrhetorical and text structure; we outline in sec-tion 2 the common assumption that these rep-resentations are trees, labelled respectively withrhetorical and textual categories, the rhetoricalstructure being unordered and the text struc-194ture ordered.
Section 3 then defines a notionof .structural  compatibility that:is weaker thanisomorphism; section 4 shows that we can findplausible counterexamples ven to this weakerformulation, and discusses why these passagesoccur.
Section 5 discusses ome implications forNLG, and finally, section 6 raises further impor-tant issues.2 Rhetor ica l  s t ruc ture  andtext  s t ruc tureTo distinguish clearly between FthetRep andDocRep, we need to define the kinds of infor-mation that should be included in the two rep-resentations.
Bateman and Rondhius (1997)compare several approaches to rhetorical rep-resentation, citing in particular RST (Mannand Thompson, 1988) and Segmented DiscourseRepresentation Theory (Asher, 1993).
Theseapproaches share the idea that rhetorical repre-sentations are composed of propositions linkedby rhetorical relations; SDRT includes as wellthe logical apparatus of DRT, thus coveringnotions like necessity and logical scope whichare missing from RST.
For the most part,NLG applications have used the RST frame-work, adapted in various ways; the most com-mon representation, proposed also as the RAGSstandard, is that of a tree in which terminalnodes represent elementary propositions, whilenon-terminal nodes represent rhetorical rela-tionships.
This representation, proposed for ex-ample by Scott and Souza (1990), is illustratedby figure 1, which might be realized by the fol-lowing passage:(1) Elixir occasionally provokes a mild allergicreaction B, because it contains gestodene C.However, Elixir has no serious side-effects A.Assuming an RST-based framework, an im-portant issue is whether the rhetorical represen-.
tation should already.imply a linear order.
Mostresearchers have followed Scott and Souza in as-suming that linear order should be left unspeci-fied; i t  is during the transition to the documentrepresentation that the material is distributedamong linguistic units (or perhaps diagrams, ina multimedia document) arranged in a specificorder.
Thus the cause relation in figure 1. forexample, could be realized with nucleus first, orsatellite first, or satellite embedded within nu-cleus:not(serious-side -e ff ~ts(elixir))NU~EUS S,~LLITEB Cpossible(allergic-reaction(elixir)) contain(elixir, gestodene)Figure 1: Rhetorical representation(2a) Elixir occasionally provokes a mild allergicreaction B, because it contains gestodene c.(2b) Because it contains gestodene C, Elixiroccasionally provokes a mild allergicreaction B.
(2c) Elixir, because it contains gestodene C,occasionally provokes a mild allergicreaction B .In the RAGS proposal, which aims to extracta useful common approach from current workin NLG, the DocRep comprises an ordered treecorresponding roughly to the 'logical markup'in notations like HTML and LaTeX.
More pre-cisely, a distinction is made between abstractand concrete levels of representation, where theabstract representation corresponds to logicalmarkup (e.g., concepts like 'paragraph' and :em-phasis'), while the concrete representation alsocovers graphical markup (concepts like ~verticalspace' and 'bold face').
In terms of this dis-tinction, it is the AbsDocRep that is specifiedduring text planning; graphical markup can bedeferred to a later formatting stage.Figure 2 shows two alternative document rep-resentations expressing the rhetorical content infigure 1.
Following Power (2000), the nodes ofthe tree are labelled with 'text-categories' us-ing a system that extends the 'text grammar'proposed by Nunberg (1990).
1 These document1Nunberg's terms 'text-phrase', 'text-clatise',and'text-sentence' refer to textual categories, whichshould not be confused with their syntactic oun-terparts.
They are defined not by syntactic forma-tion rules but by their role in text-structure, whichis typically marked as follows: tezt-sentences beginwith a capital letter and end in a full stop; text-clauses are separated by semicolons; tezt-phrases are195PARAGRAPHTEXT-SENTENCETEXT-PHRASE " TEXT-PHRASEBpossible(allergic-reaction(elixir)) /TEXT-SENTENCETEXT-PHRASE TEXT-PHRASEconcession A"however" not(serious-side-effects(elixir))TEXT-PHRASE TEXT-PHRASEcause C"because" contain(elixir, gestodene)TEXT-SENTENCE(b) ~ ~  /TEXT-CLAUSE TEXT-CLAUSE TEXT-CLAUSECTEXT-PHRASE TEXT-PHRASE TEXT-PHRASE TEXT-PHRASEcause B concession A"consequently"possible(allergic-reaction(elixir)) "however" not(serious-side-effects(elixir))Figure 2: Document  representationsrepresentations can now be passed to the tac-tical generator for the syntactic realization ofthe elementary propositions; the resulting textsmight be as follows:(3a) Elixir occasionally provokes a mild allergicreaction B, because i t  contains gestodene C.However, Elixir has no serious side-effects A.
(3b) Elixir contains gestodeneC; consequently,it occasionally provokes a mild allergicreactionS; however, Elixir has no seriousside-effects A .3 Structural compatibi l i tySummarising the argument so far.
we have madethree main points:o Rhetorical structure has typically beenrepresented by unordered RST trees suchas figure 1.o Document structure, which conveys in-formation similar to logical markup inHTML~ can be represented by orderedtrees in which nodes are labelled with text-categories (figure 2).const i tuents  of text-clauses, ometimes eparated bycommas, although within text-clauses the hierarchi-cal- structture is expressed mainly through syntax.A given rhetorical representation can beexpressed by a variety of different docu-ment representations, in which the propo-sitions occur in different orders, and indifferent text-category configurations, andthe rhetorical relations are expressed bydifferent connectives.This formulation of the problem raises an obvi-ous question: how can we characterize the set ofdocument representations that adequately real-ize a given rhetorical representation?
Elsewhere(Power, 2000), we have argued that an adequaterealization must meet three conditions:Cor rect  content :All propositions andnmst be expressed.rhetorical relationsWel l - fo rmed s t ructure :General formation rules for documentstructure must be respected (e.g.
a text-sentence cannot  contain a paragraph, un-less tile paragraph is indented).S t ruc tura l  compat ib i l i ty :The docmnent representation mst orga-nize the propositions in a way that is com-patible with their organization in rhetori-cal structure.196The first two conditions are relatively straight-forward, but what is meant,exactly .by 'struc-tural compatibility'?Assuming that we are comparing two trees,the strongest notion of compatibility is isomor-phism, which can be defined for our purposes asfollows:DocRep is isomorphic with RhetRepif they group the elementary propo-sitions in exactly the same way.More formally, every set of proposi-tions that is dominated by a node inDocRep should be dominated by a nodein RhetRep, and vice-versa.Under this definition, the rhetorical representa-tion in figure 1 is isomorphic with the documentrepresentation i  figure 2a, but not with that infigure 2b:* Proceeding top-down and left-to-right, thefive nodes in figure 1 dominate the proposi-tion sets {A,B, C}, {A}, {S,C},  {B}, and{c}.o Ignoring nodes that express discourse con-nectives, the nodes in figure 2a dominatethe proposition sets {A,B,C},  {B,C},{B}, {C} (twice), and {A} (twice).
Theseare exactly the same sets that were ob-tained for figure 1.
* Tile corresponding sets for figure 2b are{A,B,C},  {C}, {B} (twice), and {A}(twice).
Since the set {B,C} is missingfrom this list, there is a grouping in figure1 that is not realized in figure 2b, so theserepresentations are not isomorphic.Since structures like figure 2b are common, iso-tnorphism seems too strong a constraint; wehave therefore proposed (Power, 2000) the fol-lowing weaker notion of compatibility:DocRep is compatible with RhetRepif every grouping of the elementarypropositions in Docgep is also foundin R.hetRep.Formally, every set of propositionSthat is dominated by a node in DocRepsh.ould be dominated by a node inRhetRep -- bat the converse is not re-quired.Under this constraint, we allow tim documentrepresentation t.oomit rhetorical groupings, but"you forfA~ T~ITE to take C ~your tablet" S U S _  1 NUC~USD 2"Go on as before"~,~J~ L EU S _ I N U C~.E~ S _2B C"take another assoon "wait until it is timeas you remember" to take your next dose"Figure 3: Rhetorical representation of in-struct ionnot to introduce new ones.
The resulting struc-tures may be ambiguous, but this will not mat-ter if the unexpressed rhetorical relationshipscan .be inferred from the content.4 ExtrapositionThe compatibility rule may be a useful text-planning heuristic, but as a constraint on ade-quacy it still seems too strong.
Looking throughour corpus of patient information leaflets, wehave noticed some exceptions, especially in pas-sages giving conditional instructions:(4) If you forget to take your tablet A, take an-other as soon as you remember B or waituntil it is time to take your next dose C.Then go on as before D.From the point of view of document structure,this passage is a paragraph comprising two text-sentences: thns the proposition D is separatedfrom the other three propositions, which aregrouped in tile .first sentence.
However, rhetor-ically speaking, D belongs to the consequent ofthe conditional: it is the final step of the planthat should be activated .if_the patient forgetsto take a dose (figure 3).
Compatibility is vio-lated because tile DocRep contains a node (thefirst text-sentence) dominating the propositionset {A, B, C}.
which is not dominated by anynode in figure 3.Such examples might be explained as the re-sult of loose punctuation or layout, perhal)S197through imitation of the patterns of conversa-tion, in which extra:.materi~!
is_often ~tagged.
on-as an afterthought.
Thus proposition D remainsgrouped with B and C - -  they occur consecu-tively - -  but through a minor relaxation of nor-mal punctuation it has been separated by a full-stop rather than a comma.
However, this expla-nation fails to cover variations of the examplein which the propositions in the consequent arenot realized consecutively in the DocRep:(5) Consult your doctor immediately A if arash develops B.
It might become seriouslyinfected C.In this example, A must be grouped rhetori-cally with C rather than with B, unless we takethe radical step of allowing rhetorical structureto contradict logical structure.
The propositionC cannot be logically conjoined with the con-ditional because it contains a hypothetical dis-course referent (the rash) that is bound to theantecedent, and is therefore inaccessible outsidethe conditional.If passages of this kind are not artifacts ofloose punctuation, why do they occur?
A plau-sible reason, we suggest, is that some com-plex rhetorical patterns cannot easily be real-ized in a way that maintains structural com-patibility, usually because text-clauses are over-loaded.
Conditionals are especially prone to thisproblem because the only common discourseconnective ('if') is a subordinating conjunctionwhich can only link spans within a syntacticsentence (and thus within a text-clause).
If ei-ther the antecedent or the consequent is com-plex, the author is faced with a tricky problem.We have found examples in patient informa-tion leaflets of conditional sentences so long thatthey are ahnost incomprehensible.
More skilledauthors, however, succeed in presenting the ma-terial clearly either by using layout (e.g., a com-plex antecedent is presented as an indented list),or by a trick of rhetorical reorganization that wewill call eztraposition.
It is this trick that intro-duces an incompatibility between RhetRep andDocRep.Extraposition typically occurs when a rhetor-ical representation R contains a complex em-bedded constituent C. To respect structuralcompatibility, R should be realized by a doc-ument unit that contains the realization of C:instead, in extraposition, a document unit real-ising/?.
- C is coordinated with one realizing C.so that the extraposed material C is raised inthe DocRep to the same level as R. To recon-...... struct ~:the:.
: meanings.of .the:-.whole:.
passage, .thereader has to plug C back into R. In mostcases, the author facilitates this task throughan explicit deictic reference to the extraposedmaterial (Bouayad-Agha et al, 2000):(6) If you have any of the following, tell yourdoctor:difficulty in breathing.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
al)dominal..Dainsnausea or vomitingOccasionally, however, the author leaves theextraposition implicit, assuming that the readercan infer the correct location of C within R fromthe propositional content.
In such cases, the ex-traposition looks like an afterthought, becausethe unit realizing R - C contains no signal thata gap in its content will be filled in later.We have also come across rare examplesof another kind of incompatibil ity in whichMarcu's (1996) principle of nuclearity is vio-lated by grouping together two satellites whichhave the same nucleus.
Suppose that the rhetor-ical representation i figure 1 is realized by thefollowing passage, in a context in which thereader knows nothing about gestodene:(7) Although Elixir has no serious side-effects A, it contains gestodene c. Conse-quently, it occasionally provokes a mild al-lergic reaction 8.The apparent concession relation between Aand C here is paradoxical, since in rhetoricalstructure they are unrelated.
Of course a con-trast between A and C nfight be perceived bya medical expert; however, one can constructsimilar examples in which the apparent relationis even less plausible:(8a) Although we usually work fl'om nine' tofive A, today is Friday C. Consequently, wecan go home early B.This may be rather loose, but many people findit acceptable.
It could be explained as a rhetor-ical trick in which the sheer paradox of the con-cession serves as a signal that it is incomplete.The device might be spelled out as follows:Although Elixir has no serious side-effects A, there exists a contrastingstate of a~hirs resulting fl'om the flzctthat it contains gestodene c. Thisstate of affairs is that it occasionallyprovokes a nfild allergic reaction t3.198Unlike the conditional examples above, this de-vice works only.when the-.rhetorically groupedpropositions B and C are consecutive in theDocRep.
Thus whatever view is taken of exam-ple (Sa) , everyone finds its variant (Sb) muchworse:(Sb) # Today is Friday C although we usuallywork from nine to five A. Consequently, wecan go home early s.5 Implications for NLGFor many NLG applications, the notion of com-patibility defined above is a useful hard con-straint; even if violations of this constraint aresometimes acceptable, they are not essential.However, for some kinds of material (e.g., com-plex instructions), extraposition is a convenientrhetorical device which might improve the read-ability of the generated texts, so it is worth con-sidering how a text planner might be configuredso as to allow solutions that violate compatibil-ity.In terms of the RAGS framework, thereare broadly two possible approaches.
First,we could introduce incompatibility by defin-ing transformations on the RhetRep; alterna-tively, we could relax the constraints govern-ing the transition from RhetRep to DocRep.The RAGS proposal (1999) allows for rhetoricaltransformations through a distinction betweenabstract and concrete rhetorical representa-tions.
The abstract representation AbsRhetRepexpresses the rhetorical content of the under-lying message, while the concrete RhetRep ex-presses the rhetorical structure directly realizedin the text and corresponds to the representa-tion used by Scott and Souza (1990) to discusstextual realisation.
If KhetRep is incompati-ble with AbsRhetRep, the text structure DocRepwill also be incompatible with AbsRhetRep,even though the rules for realizing rhetoricalstructure by document structure are themselvescompatibility-preserving, qYaalsformation oper-ations are also used by Marcu (2000) to mapJapanese rhetorical structures onto English-likerhetorical structures, but these are mappingsbetween two PdaetReps rather than from anAbsRhetRep to a RhetRep.If transformations are allowed, there are obvi-ous dangers that the message will be expressedin such a distorted way that the reader cannotrecover the original intention.
For this reason,rhetori(:al transformations must be defined withcare.
A fairly safe option would appear to be.... -the ..extraposition-iof.
:a ,proposition.
~lab6rai~ingthe antecedent of a conditional - - .even thoughsuch a transformation would violate Marcu's(1996) 'nuclearity principle' (assuming that theantecedent is regarded as the satellite).
The fop -lowing examples how that this transformationleads to acceptable texts regardless of the orderof nucleus and satellite within the conditional:(9a)~ Dcr.uot" use :Elixirif you :have had' an al: "lergic reaction to Elixir.
An allergic reac-tion may be recognised as a rash, itchingor shortness of breath.
(9b) If you have had an allergic reaction toElixir, do not use Elixir.
An allergic re-action may be recognised as a rash, itchingor shortness of'breath.However, the approach based on rhetoricaltransformations leads to difficulties when theacceptability of the resulting text depends onlinear order as well as grouping.
For instance,suppose that we try extraposing the elabora-tion of a satellite when the main relation is nota conditional, but a concession.
The followingpassages how two texts that might result, butin this case the second version sounds anoma-lous: even if they are not grouped together inthe DocRep, the satellite and its elaboration atleast need to be consecutive.
(10a) You should not stop taking Elixir, eventhough you might experience some mildeffects.
For example, feelings of dizzinessand nausea are very common at the begin-ning of treatment.
(lOb) # Even though you might experience somemild effects at tile beginning of tile treat-ment, you should not stop taking Elixir.For example, feelings of dizziness and nau-sea are very common at the beginning oftreatment.A transformation from AbsKhetRep toRhetRep cannot distinguish these cases, so that10a is,allowed while 10b is protfibited; unless thel:l.hetRep is at least partially specified for linearorder.
Adhering strictly to the RAGS frame-work, where linear order is specified only intbsDocRep, one would have to adopt the alter-native of building an incompatible /~bsDocRepfrom RhetRep.
constraining the linear order at,this stage.1996 ConclusionWe have discussed various examples Of extra-position.
This phenomenon is due to variousfactors: the complexity of the material (exam-ple 4), the presence of logical information (5),the use of referring expressions to access infor-mation at various degrees of accessibility in thetext structure (5,6,9), and the use of particularrhetorical strategies (7,8).
This last group of ex-amples concerns.a concession constr.uction sim-ilar to the one discussed by Grote et al (1997),namely the substitution concession.
This typeof concession groups together the conceded partA and the explanation C but leaves the conclu-sion B unverbalised.
The difference in the caseof examples 7 and 8 is that A and C are groupedtogether but B is required to follow them be-cause there is not enough information for thereader to infer B from A and C.The extraposition phenomenon shows thatthe nucleus-satellite distinction is not the onlyfactor influencing the segmentation f the mes-sage.
In example 10, the injunction you shouldnot stop taking Elixir obviously expresses themain intention of the author.
However, thefact that the subordinated concession is placedafter its main clause makes it available forfurther expansion.
The sometimes compet-ing informational nd intentional roles of dis-course segments have been at the centre ofthe debate over the nucleus-satellite distinction(Moore and Pollack, 1992; Moser and Moore,1996; Bateman and Rondhius, 1997); the acces-sibility of discourse segments on the right fron-tier of a discourse structure is a phenomenonthat has already been discussed by several re-searchers (Webber, 1991; Asher, 1993).
Extra-position provides a useful and sometimes im-portant means of rearranging complex materialin an abstract discourse representation in orderto satisfy the constraints posed by linearisationinto text.ReferencesN.
Asher.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Objectsin Discourse.
Kluwer Academic Publishers,Netherlands.J.
Bateman and K. Rondhius.
1997.
Coher-ence relations: Towards a general specifica-tion.
Discourse Processes, 24(1):3-50.N.
Bouayad-Agha, D. Scott, and R. Power.2000.
Integrating content and style in doc-mnents: a case study of patient informa-tion leaflets.
Information Design Journal,-9(2):161~176.
- -  ?
: - ' .
: : -B. Grote, N. Lenke, and Stede M. 1997.Ma(r)king concessions in english and german.Discourse Processes, 24( 1):87-117.W.
Mann and S. Thompson.
1988.
Rhetoricalstructure theory: towards a functional theoryof text organization.
Text, 8(3):243-281.D.
Marcu, L. Carlson, and M. Watanabe.
2000.The automatic translation of discourse struc-tures.
In Proceedings of the North Ameri-can Chapter of the Association for Comptu-ational Linguistics (NAACL'2000), Seattle,Washington.D.
Marcu.
1996.
Building up rhetorical struc-ture trees.
In Proceedings of AAAI-96.
Amer-ican Association for Artificial Intelligence.D.J Moore and M.E.
Pollack.
1992.
A prob-lem for rst: The need for multi-level dis-course analysis.
Computational Linguistics,18(4):537-544.M.
Moser and J.D.
Moore.
1996.
Towards asynthesis of two accounts of discourse struc-ture.
Computational Linguistics, 22(3):409-419.G.
Nunberg.
1990.
The Linguistics of Punctu-ation.
CSLI, Stanford, USA.R.
Power.
2000.
Mapping rhetorical struc-tures to text structures by constraint satis-faction.
Technical report, ITRI, University ofBrighton.RAGS.
1999.
The RAGS project: towardsa reference architecture for natural lan-guage generation systems.
Technical report,Information Technology Research Institute,Brighton, UK.D.
Scott and C. de Souza.
1990.
Getting themessage across in RST-based text generation.In R. Dale, C. Mellish, and M. Zock, editors,Current Research in Natural Language Gen-eration.
Cognitive Science Series, AcademicPress.B.L Webber.
1991.
Structure and ostension inthe interpretation of discourse deixis.
Lan-guage and Cognitive Processes, 6(2):107-135.200
