Sense clusters for Information Retrieval:Evidence from Semcor and the EuroWordNet  InterLingualIndexJulio Gonzalo, Irina Chugur and FeHsa VerdejoDepartamento de Lenguajes y Sistemas Inform~iticosUniversidad Nacional de Educacidn a Distancia (UNED){julio, irina, felisa}@ieec .uned.
esAbst rac tWe examine three different types of senseclustering criteria with an InformationRetrieval application in mind: methodsbased on the wordnet structure (suchas generMization, cousins, sisters...); eo-occurrence of senses obtained from Sere-cot; and equivalent translations of sensesin other languages via the EuroWordNetInterLingual Index (ILI).
We concludethat a) different NLP  applications de-mand not only different sense granulari-ties but different (possibly overlapped)sense clusterings, b) co-occurrence ofsenses in Semcor provide strong evidencefor Information Retrieval clusters, un-like methods based on wordnet structureand systematic polysemy, e) parallel pol-ysemy in three or more languages viathe ILI, besides providing sense clustersfor MT and CLIR, is strongly correlatedwith co-occurring senses in Semcor, andthus can be useful for Information Re-trieval as well.1 I n t roduct ionWordNet (Miller et al, 1990) and EuroWordNet(Vossen, 1998), as most large-coverage electronicdictionaries and semantic networks, are not de-signed for a specific Natural Language Process-ing (NLP) application.
It is commonly assumedthat sense distinctions in these lex~cal databasesare too fine-grained for a majority of applications.In particular, we have used EuroWordNet in aCross-Language Text Retrieval (CLTR) applica-tion (Verdejo et al, 2000) and a number of CLTRexperiments (Gonzalo et al, 1999; Vossen et al,1999), confirming that it is crucial to apply certainsense clusters to Wordnet (WN) and EuroWord-Net (EWN)  to take real advantage of them inInformation Retrieval applications.
Potentially,a semantic network such as WN/EWN can helpdistinguishing different word senses for retrieval,enhancing precision, and identifying synonymicor conceptually related terms, enhancing recall.But not all sense distinctions in a lexical databaseare meaningful for Information Retrieval.
For in-stance, the following sense distinctions are super-fluous in an information retrieval application, asthe different senses do not lead to different opicsor different kinds of documents:Behav iour1.
Manner of acting or conducting oneselJ2.
(psychology) the aggreaate of the responses orreaction or movements made by an organism inany situation3.
Behavioural attributesBet1.
The act of gambling2.
The money risked on a gambleBand8.
Instrumentalists not including string players9.
A group of musicians playing popular musicfor dancingBother1.
Smth.
or someone who causes trouble, a sourceof unhappiness2.
An angry disturbanceBut sense clustering have been generally as-sociated with identifying Systematic Polysemyrules, taking into account lexicographic argumentsrather than potential applications.
In (Peters etal., 1998; Peters and Peters, 2000) the EuroWord-Net structure, together with systematic polysemy,is used to group senses (sisters, auto-hyponymy,cousins, twins).
This work is linked to the find-ing of systematic polysemy classes in (Buitelaar,1998; Buitelaar, 2000; Tomuro, 1998) and others.While identifying systematic polysemy might bea key issue for and adequate lexico-semantic spec-10ification, systematic relatedness does not alwaysmean sense proximity.
In particular, such rulesdo not necessarily predict a similar behavior ofthe clustered senses in an NLP application.
For in-stance, the animal/food systematic polysemy doesnot lead to good sense clusters neither for MachineTranslation between English and Sp~nlsh, nor forInformation Retrieval .
In Spanish it is commonto give different names to an animal in a zoologicalsense or in a food sense.
For instance, it is nec-essary to distinguish animal/food senses offish inorder to translate into pez or pes~do, dependingon the context.
And for Information Retrieval,the animal sense will appear in documents about,say, zoology, while the food sense will appear indocuments about cooking.
Therefore, while theanimal/food rule is useful for lexical representa-tion and prediction of sense extensions in English,it cannot be used to cluster senses in MT or IR.In (Vossen et al, 1999) we performed a concept-based IR experiment where using the ILI withclusters was slightly worse than using the ILI with-out the clusters.
While clustering the EWN Inter-lingual Index records on the basis of systematicpolysemy proved useful to provide better inter-languages connectivity in the EWN database, thisresult supports the idea that systematic polysemy,per se, is not an indication of potential IR clusters.However, we do not claim that all systematicpolysemy patterns are useless for IR.
It is prob-ably reasonable to classify different systematicpolysemy rules according to whether they pro-duce I/t clusters or not.
Some, already identi-fied, patterns of regular polysemy, such as con-tainer/quantity or music/dance (Peters and Pe-ters, 2000) yield adequate IR clusters.
Otherpatterns, such as animal/food, plant/food, aui-real/skin, language/people tend to produce clus-ters that are not valid for IR.
This classificationof polysemy patterns is, to our opinion, stronglyrelated with the black and white dot operators in-troduced in (Buitelaar, 1998).
The black operatorwas reserved for polysemy patterns including setsof senses that may co-occur in the same word in-stance (e.g.
book as written work or as physicalobject), and white operator is reserved for poly-semy patterns for senses that never co-occur inthe same word instance (e.g.
window as physi-cal object or as computer frame): Unfortunately,the distinction between black and white operatorsclasses has not been applied yet -to our knowl-edge - to the set of polysemous classes defined inBuitelaar's thesis.But, in many cases, even useful polysemyrules fail to extract pairs of systematically re-lated senses in WN/BWN, because the hypernymbranches that they pertain to do not obey none ofthe described systematic polysemy classes/types.Take the following example:sack:1.
The act of terminating someone's employmentTERMINATION, END, CONCLUSION2.
a bag made of paper or plastic for holdingcustomer purchases -.h BAG3.
unwai.~ed loose-fitting dress hanging straightfrom the shoulders --~ DRESS, FROCK4.
hanging bed of canvas or rope netting -4 BED5.
a woman's full loose hip-length jacket -~JACKET6.
dry white wine from SW Europe ~ WHITEWINE7.
quantity contained in a sack ~ CONTAINER-FUL8.
pocket.
--~ ENCLOSED SPACEsack 2 (bag of paper for customer's pur-chases) and sack 7 (quantity contained in asack) are related by systematic polysemy as con-tainer/containerful.
Similarly, sack 8 (pocket)should be related to some sense with the mean-ing of quantity.
Nevertheless, ack 8, whose hy-pernym is "enclosed space", cannot be retained inthe same way that the former pair of senses, inspite of identical semantic relationship.
System-atic polysemy cannot predict, as well, a poten-tial IR duster with senses 3 and 5 (both meaningtypes of clothing and thus likely to appear in shn-ilar contexts).
Senses 3 and 5 indicate, also, thatclustering might also depend on the applicationdomain: they can be clustered in a genetic search,but they should be distinguished if the search isperformed in a clothing domain.It is interesting to note, finally, that differentclustering criteria not only lead to different gran-ularities, but they can produce tangled clusters,as inOnion:1.
Pungent bulb -+ VEGETABLE ~ FOOD2.
Bulbuos plant having hollow leaves cultivatedworldwide for its rounded edible bulb --~ ALLIA-CEOUS PLANT ~ PLANT3.
Edible bulb of an onion plant ~ BULBPLANT ORGANThe plant/food rule successfully relates senses2 and 1, while for Information Retrieval the inter-esting cluster is for senses 2 and 3, (both botanicalterms).11Our hypothesis i , therefore, that we cannot as-sume general clustering criteria; different NLP ap-plications require different clustering criteria thatare difficult to reconcile in a single clustering ap-proach.
Our work on clustering is centered onidentifying sense-distinctions that could be rel-evant from an Information Retriev'~t and CrossLanguage Information Retrieval point of view.Next section describes a clustering strategy thatadequates to the Information Retrieval criterion:cluster senses if they tend to co-occur in the sameSemcor documents.In Section 3, we study a different clustering ceil-teflon, based on equivalent ranslations for twoor  more senses in other wordnets fi'om the Eu-roWordNet database.
This is a direct criterionto duster senses in Machine Translation or Cross-Language Text Retrieval.
Then we measure theoverlap between both criteria, to conclude that theEWN InterLingual Index is also a valuable sourceof evidence for Information Retrieval clusters.2 Cluster evidence from SemcorOne of our goals within the EuroWordNet andITEM projects was to provide sense clusteringsfor WordNet (and, in general,for the EuroWord-Net InterLingual Index, (Gonzalo et al, 1999)that leave only the sense distinctions in wordnetsthat indicate different (semantic) indexing unitsfor Information Retrieval.
Our first lexicographicexamination of WordNet sense distinctions andciustefings following criteria based on the wordnethierarchy did not produce clear criteria to classifysenses emi-automatically according to this ~ re-quirement.
As we mentioned before, the clustersapplied on the EWN InterLingual Index which re-lied solely on hierarchical information in Word-net, produced a slight decrease of retrieval per-formauce in an experiment using 1LI records asindexing units.Thus, we decided to stick to our only clear-cutcriterion: cluster senses if they are likely to co-occur in the same document.
The fact that thesame sense combination occurs in several seman-tically tagged documents hould provide strongevidence for clustering.
Fortunately, we had theSemcor corpus of semantically-tagged documentsto start with.For example, the first two senses of "breath"co-occur in several Semcor documents:Breath1.
(the air that is inhaled or exhaled in respira-tion)2.
(the act of exhaling)This co-occurrence indicates that this sense dis-tinction ~ not help to discriminate different doc-ument contexts.
While in this particular exam-ple there is a clear relation between senses (sense1 is involved in the action specified in sense 2),it seems extremely difficult to find general clus-tering techniques based on Word.Net hierarchy tocapture all potential IR clusters.We have scanned Semcor in search of sets of(two or more) senses that co-occur frequentlyenough.
In practice, we started with a thresh-old of at least 2 documents (out of 171) withthe co-occurring senses in a similar distribution.We did not use the original Semcor files, but theIR-Semcor partition (Gonzalo et al, 1998) thatsplits multi-text documents into coherent retrievalchunks.
We completed this list of candidates tocluster with pairs of senses that only co-occur oncebut belong to any "cousin" combination (Peters etal., 1998).
Finally, we obtained 507 sets of sensecombinations (producing above 650 sense pairs)for which Semcor provides positive evidence forclustering.
A manual verification of 50 of suchclusters howed that above 70% of them were use-ful.
We also noticed that raising the threshold(the number of documents in which the senses co-occur), the error rate decreases quickly.Then we worked with this set of positive IR clus-ters, trying to identify a set of common featuresthat could be used to cluster the rest of WN/EWNsenses.
However, it seems extremely difficult tofind any single criterion, common to all clusters.For instance, if we consider a) number of vari-ants in common between the synsets correspond-ing to the candidate senses; b) number of wordsin common between the glosses; and c) commonhypernyms, we find that any combination of val-ues for these three features is likely to be foundamong the set of clusters inferred from Semcor.For example:factI.
a piece of information about circurastancesthat ezist or events that have occurred; "first youmust collect all the facts of the case"~.
a statement or assertion of verified infor-mation about something that is the case or hashappened; "he supported his argument with animpressive array of facts"Number of documents in which they co-occur: 13a) number of variants in common: 1 out of 1b) (content) words in common between flosses:yesc) common hypernyms: no12door1.
door -(a swinging or sliding barrier that willclose the entrance to a room or building; "heknocked on the door"; "he slammed the door ashe left") 2. doorway, door, entree, entry, portal,room access'- (the space in a wall through whichyou enter or leave a room or building; the spacethat a door can close; "he stuck his head in thedoorway") Number of documents in which theyco-occur: 11a} number of variants in common: I out of 6b} (content} words in common between glosses:yes (also XPOS: enter/entrance}c} common hypernyras: yesway1.
manner, mode, style, way, fashion - (amanner of performance; "a manner of living";"a way of life") 2. means, way - (how a resultis obtained or an end is achieved; "a meansof communication"; "the true way to success")Number of documents in which they co-occur: 9a) number of variants in common: I out of 6b) (content) words in common between glosses:noc) common hypernyms: noThe next logical step is to use this positive ev-idence, combined with negative co-occurrence ev-idence, in training some machine learning systemthat can successfully capture the regularities hid-den to our manual inspection.
In principle, a bi-nary classification task would be easy to captureby decision trees or similar techniques.Therefore, we have also extracted from Sea-cot combinations of senses that appear frequentlyenough in Semcor, but never appear together inthe same document.
The threshold was set in,at least, 8 occurrences of each sense in Semcor,resulting in more than 500 negative clusters.
Amanual verification of 50 of these negative clustersshowed that about 80% of them were acceptablefor Information Retrieval as senses that shouldbe distinguished.
Together with the positive evi-dence, we have more than 1100 training cases fora binary classifier.
Our plan is to apply this clas-sifter to the whole EWN InterLingual Index, andthen perform precision/recall tests in the environ-ment described in (Gonzalo et al, 1998; Gonzaloet al, 1999).3 C lus ter  ev idence  f rom the  I L IWhen translated into a target language, sense dis-tinctions of a word may be lexicalized.
For in-stance, the English term spring is translated intoSpanish as primavera in its "season" sense, intomuelle in its "metal device" sense, or as flaentein its "fountain" sense.
For an English-SpanishMachine Translation system, it is crucial to dis-tinguish these three senses of spring.
But it isalso frequent hat two or more senses of a wordare translated into the same word, for one or morelanguages.
For instance, child as "human offspring(son or daughter) of any age" and child as "youngmale person" are both translated into "nifio" inSpanish, into "enfant" in French, and into "kind"in German.
We will use the term "parallel poly-semy" to refer to this situation in the rest of thisarticle.Obviously, a Machine Translation system doesnot need to distinguish these two senses.
But it isalso tempting to hypothesize that the existence ofparallel polysemy in two or more target languagesmay indicate that the two senses are close enoughto be clustered in more applications.
Indeed, in(Resnik and Yarowsky, 1999) this criterion is pro-posed to determine which word senses hould beretained or discarded in a testbed for automaticWord Sense Disambiguation systems.In particular, our goal has been to test whethertwo or more senses of a word are likely to be clus-tered, for IR purposes, if they have parallel pol-ysemy in a certain number of languages via theEuroWorclNet InterLingual Indez.
If the answeris positive, then the InterLingual Index, with eightlanguages interconnected, would be a rich sourceof information to provide IR clusters.
In EWN,each monolingual database is linked, via Cross-Language quivalence relations, to the InterLin-gual Index (ILI) which is the superset of all con-cepts occurring in all languages.
The ILI permitsfinding equivalent synsets between any pair of lan-guages included in the database.
For instance,senses 1 and 2 of child are translated into Span-ish, French and German as follows:Chi ldchild 1 -r  {child, kid} - (a human offspring (sonor daughter) of any age; "they had three children";"they were able to send their kids to college")child 2 --~ {male child, boy, child} - (a youngmale person; "the baby was a boy"; "she made theboy brush his teeth every night")Spanish:{child, kid} EQ-SYNONYM {ni~o, cr~o, menor}13{male child, boy, child} EQ-SYNON'YM {nino}lwencch:{child, kid} EQ-SYNONYM{ en.fant, mineur}{male child, boy, child} EQ-SYNONYM{en\]ant)German:{child, kid} EQ-SYNONYM {kind}{mate child, boy, child} EQ-SYNOrCYM {kind,spross}Note that child I and child ~ have parallel trans-lations in all three languages: Sp~mish (nifio),French (enfant) and German (kind).
In this case,this criterion successfully detects a \])air of sensesthat could be clustered for Information Retrievalpurposes.In order to test the general validity of this cri-terion, we have followed these steps:Select a set of nouns for a full manual study.We have chosen the set of 22 nouns usedin the first SENSEVAL competition (Kilgar-rift and Palmer, 2000).
This set satisfiedour requirements of size (small enough for anexhaustive manual revision), reasonable de-gree of polysemy, and unbiased for our test-ing purposes (the criteria to select these 22nouns was obviously independent of our ex-periment).
We had to reduce the originalset to 20 nouns (corresponding to 73 EWNsenses), as the other two nouns were polyse-mous in the Hector database used for SEN-SEVAL, but monosemous in WordNet 1.5 andEuroWordNet.
As target languages we choseSpanish, French, Dutch and German.Extract the candidate senses that satisfy theparallel polysemy criterion, in three variants:- Experiment 1: sets of senses that haveparallel translations in at least two outof the four target languages.- Experiment 2: sets of senses that haveparallel translations in at least one outof the four target languages.
This is asofter constraint that produces a super-set of the sense clusters Obtained in Ex-periment 1.-Experhnent 3: sets of senses whosesynsets are mapped into the same targetsynset for at least one of the target lan-guages.
This criterion cannot be testedon plain multilingual dictionaries, onlyon EWN-like semantic databases.?
Check out manually whether the dusters pro-duced in Experiments 1-3 are valid for Infor-mation Retrieval.
At this step, the validity ofclusters was checked by a human judge.
Un-fortunately, we did not have the chance yet toattest the validity of these judgments usingmore judges and extracting inter-annotatoragreement rates.
We could compare anno-tations only on a small ~action of cases (15sense pairs), which we use to make the crite-rion "valid for Itt" precise nough for reliableannotation.
The results are reported in sec-tions 3.2-3.4 for the different experiments.?
Identify all possible lexicographic reasons be-hind a parallel polysemy, taking advantage ofthe previous study.
This is reported in thenext section.?
Check how many clusters obtained from Sem-cor also satisfy the parallel translation crite-rion, to have an idea of the overlap betweenboth (section 3.5).?
Finally, study whether the results have a de-pendency on possible incompleteness or in-adequacy of the InterLingual I.udex (section3.6).3.1 Typo logy  of  para l le l  po lysemyParallel polysemy can also be a sign of some sys-tematic relation between the senses.
As it is saidin (Seto, 1996), ~(..) There often is a one-to-one correspondence b tween different languages intheir lexiealization behaviour towards metonyrny,in other words, metonymically related word sensesare often translated by the same word in other lan-guages".But the reasons for parallel polysemy are notlimited only to systematic polysemy.
In the caseof the EWN database, we have distinguished thefollowing causes:1.
There is a series of mechanisms of meaningextension, if not universal, at least, commonto several languages:(a) General lzat ion/special l  =ation Forexample, the following two senses forband:English: band; French: groupe; Ger-man: Band, Mnsicgruppe1.
Instrumentalists not including stringplayers2.
A group of musicians playing popularmusic for dancing14(b)(c)(d)Sense 1 is a specialization ofSense 2, andthis pattern is repeated in French andGerman.Metonymic  relat ions.
Some of themform already will known systematic pol-ysemy patterns.
As for applicability toIR, we should be capable to discrimi-nate regular polysemy rules that providevalid IR clusters from those that containsenses that can not be interpreted simul-taneously within a same document.
Ex-amples include:English: glass; Spanish: vaso1.
container2.
quantitywhich is a valid IR cluster, andEnglish: rabbit;l~rench: lapin1.mammal2.meatSpanish: conejo;which should be distinguished for IR.Metaphors .
This kind of semantic re-lation usually does not produce good IRclusters, because senses related by meansof metaphor usually belong to differentsemantic fields and, consequently, tendto occur in distinct documents.
For ex-ample:English: giant; Spanish: coloso; French:colosse; Dutch: kolossus1.a person of exceptional importance andreputation2.someone who is abnormally largeSemant ic  caique or loan transla-tion.
A (probably metaphorical) senseextension is copied in other languages.It also can produce undesirable clustersfor Ilt, because the original relation be-tween two senses involved can be basedon a metaphor.
For example:English: window; Spanish: ventana;Dutch: venster.1.an opening in the wall of a building toadmit light and air2.a rectangular pert of a computer screenthat is a display different of the rest ofthe screenThe original computer sense for windowis also adopted in Spanish and German2.for the corresponding words ventana ndvenster.In certain occasions, the particularities ofhow the wordnets have been built semi-automatically ead to a mimesis of the WN1.5senses and, consequently, to parallel poly-semy in several anguages.
These sense dis-tinctious are not incorrect, but perhaps wouldbe different if every monolingual wordnet hadbeen constructed without WN 1.5 as a refer-ence for semi-automatic extraction of seman-tic relations.
An example:Behaviottr:1.
Manner of acting or conducting oneself(Spanish: compertamiento, conducta;French: comportement, conduite)2.
(psychology) the aggregate of the responsesor reaction or movements made by an organ-ism in any situation(Spanish: comportamiento, conducta;French: comportement)3.
Beehavioural ttributes(Spanish: comportamiento, conducta;French: comportement)The question is what classes of parallel poly-semy are dominant in EWN, and then whetherparallel polysemy can be taken as a strong indi-cation of a potential IR cluster.
A preliminaryanswer to this question is reported in the nextsections.3.2 Exper iment 1Here we selected all sense combinations, in our 20English nouns test set, that had parallel transla-tions in at least two of the four target languagesconsidered (Spanish, French, Dutch and German).We found 10 clusters: 6 were appropriate for In-formation Retrieval, 3 were judged inappropriate,and one was due to an error in the database:Val id I t t  c lustersBand 1,2: something elongated, worn aroundthe body or one of the limbs / a strip or stripe ofa contrasting color or material (mapped into twodifferent syusets in Spani.~h and French)band 2,5: a strip or stripe of a contrastingcolor or material/a stripe of a contrasting color(mapped into different syusets in Spanish andFrench; only one translation into Dutch.
)band 8,9: instrumentalists not including stringplayers / a group of musicians playing popular15music for dancing (linked to the s~mae synset inGerman and in Dutch)behaviour 1,2,3: manner of acting or con-ducting oneself /(psychology) the aggregate ofthe responses or reaction or movements madeby an organism in any situation / bchaviouralattributes (two senses are sisters, and in generalthe distinction is not easy to understand; in twocases the Dutch synset is the same, and there isno Dutch translation for the other.
In Sp~nighthere are three synsets that mimic the Englishones).Bet 1,~: act of gambling/money risked(metonymy relation, translated iaato differentsynsets in Spanish and French.
One or bothtranslations missing for the other languages)ezcess 3,4: surplusage / overabundance (differ-ent synsets in Spanish and French, one or bothtranslations missing in the other languages).inappropriate c lustersgiant 5,6: a person off exceptional importance/ someone who is abnormally large (metaphoricrelation; linked to the same syuset in Dutch, andto different synsets in Spanish and French)giant 5,7: a person of ezceptional importance /a very large person (metaphoric relation; linkedto different synsets in Dutch and German)rabbit 1,2: mammal / meat (systematic poly-semy; linked to different syusets in Spanish, Ger-man and French).E r roneous  clustersteer 1,2: castrated bull/ hint, indication offpotential opportunity.
Both are translated into"buey" in Spanish and into "stierkalf ~in Dutch.Only the "castrated bull" --~ "buey" link is appro-priate.3.3 Exper iment  2If we take all clusters that have a parallel transla-tion in at least one target language (rather thantwo target languages as in Experiment 1), we ob-tain a larger subset of 27 clusters.
The 17 newclusters have the following distribution:?
9 valid clusters, such as bother 1,2 (somethingthat causes trouble / angry disturbance).?
3 inappropriate clusters that relatehomonyms, such as band 2,7 (strip or stripeof a contrasting color or material/unofHcialassociation of people).?
4 inappropriate clusters that groupmetonymieally related senses, such assanction 2,3 (penalty/authorization).?
I inappropriate cluster based on a metaphor:steering 2,3 (act of steering and holding thecourse/guiding, uidance)On the overall, we have 15 valid clusters, 11inappropriate, and one error.
The percentage ofuseful predictions i  56%, only slightly worse thanfor the tighter constraint of experiment 1.
It isworth noticing that:1.
The parallel translation criterion obtained 27potential clusters for 20 nouns, nearly oneand a half cluster per noun.
The criterionis very productive!2.
The percentage of incorrect clusters (41%)is high enough to suggest hat parallel poly-semy cannot be taken as a golden rule to clus-ter close senses, at least with the languagesstudied.
Even 3 of the negative cases werehomonyms, totally unrelated senses.
Perhapsthe general WSD clustering criterion pro-posed in (Resnik and Yarowsky, 1999) needsto be revised for a specific application suchas IR.
For instance, they argue that dustersbased on parallel polysemy "would eliminatemany distinctions that are arguably bettertreated as regular polysemy'.
But we haveseen that regular polysemy may lead to sensedistinctions that are important o keep in anInformation Retrieval application.
On theother hand, the results reported in (Resnikand Yarowsky, 1999) suggest hat we wouldobtain better clusters if the parallel polysemycriteria is tested on more distant languages,such as Japanese or Basque to test Englishsense distinctions.3.4 Exper iment  3In this experiment, which cannot be done with amultilingual dictionary, we looked for sense dis-tinctions that are translated into the same synsetfor some target language.
This is a direct evidenceof sense relatedness (both senses point to the sameconcept in the target language), although the rela-tion may be complex (for instance, one of the twosenses might be translated as an EQ-HYPONYM).We found 9 clusters atisfying the criterion, allof them for linlcq to the Dutch wordnet.
5 sensecombinations are valid IR clusters.
Three com-binations turned out to be inappropriate for the16# words = 20# senses = 73Exp.
1Exp.
2Exp.
3It1 clusters not IR clusters incorrect Total6 (60%) 3 (30%) 1 1015 (56%) 11 (41%) 1 275 (56%) 3 (33%) 1 9Table 1: Adequacy of clusters based on parallel polysemy for Information Retrievalneeds of 1R (accident 1,2: chance / misfortune;steering 2,3: the act of steering and holding thecourse / guiding, guidance; giant 5,6: a personof exceptional importance / someone who is ab-normally large).
Finally, the erroneous cluster forsteerl (castrated bull) and steer2 (hint, an indica-tion of potential opportunity) reappeared again.The results for the three experiments are sum-mazized in Table 1.
It seems that the parallelpolysemy criteria on the ILI can be a very richsource of information to cluster senses for IR, butit is as well obvious that it needs to be refined ormanually revised to obtain high quality clusters.3.5 Overlapping of  criteria f rom Semcorto ILITo complete evidence for correlation betweenSemcor-based clusters and ILI-based clusters, westudied two subsets of Semcor-based clusters tocheck if they matched the parallel polysemy crite-ria on the ILI.
The first set were the 11 sense com-binatious with a co-occurrence frequency above 7in Semcor.
10 out of 11 (91%) also hold the mostrestrictive criterion used in Experiment 1, againindicating a strong correlation between both cri-teria.
Then we augmented the set of sense com-binations to 50 - with co-occurrence frequenciesabove 2-.
This time, 27 clusters matched the cri-terion in Experiment 2 (54%).
As the evidencefor Semcor clustering decreases, the criterion ofparallel translations i also less reliable, again in-dicating a correlation between both.3.6 Adequacy  of the IL I  to gettr-n~lat ion clustersClustering methods based on the criterion of par-allel translation depend, to a great extent, onthe adequacy and quality of the lexical resourcesused.
How many ILI clusters had we obtained inan EWN database with total coverage and com-pletely error-free?Our experiments, though limited, are a first in-dication of the utility of EWN for this task:?
Analyzing 73 WN senses corresponding to 20nouns used in the SENSEVAL, we found 2 er-roneons equivalence links in the Spanish andDutch wordnets.
Taking into account hatEWN was built by semi-automatic means,this seems a low error rate.Only 16 senses out of 73 have equivalencelinks in the 4 selected wordnets.
19 senseshave equivalence \]ink,q in 3 languages, 21senses in 2 languages, 9 in only one languageand 6 have no equivalence links in any of theselected worduets.
The lack of equivalencelinks sometimes can be explained by the lackof lexicalized terms for a certain WN concept.For example, float2 (a drink with ice-creamfloating in it) is not lexicalized in Spanish, sowe should not expect an equivalence link forthis sense in the Spanish wordnet.
In manyother cases though, the lack of the equiva-lence links is due to incompleteness in thedatabase.Each monolingual wordnet reflects, to alarge extent, the kind of Machine-Readableresources used to build it.
The Span-ish wordnet was built mainly from bilin-gual dictionaries and therefore is closer tothe Wn 1.5 structure.
The French word-net departed from an ontology-like database,and thus some non-lexicaliT.ed expressionsare still present (for instance, float ~ hassoda_avec_un_boule_de_glace as French equiv-alent).
The Dutch wordnet departed from alexical database rich in semantic information,thus it departs more from the Wordnet struc-ture, has a richer connectivity and complexlinks into the InterLingual Index, etc.
Cross-Language quivalent relations are not, there-fore, totally homogeneous in EWN.On the overall, however, the ILI seems per-fectly suitable for automatic applications regard-ing multilingual sense mappings.
In particular,the fine-grainedness of Wordnet and EuroWord-Net, in spite of its lack of popularity among NLPresearchers, may be an advantage for NLP appli-cations, as it may suit different clusterings for dif-ferent application requirements.174 Conc lus ionsWe examined three different ypes of sense clus-tering criteria with an Information Retrieval ap-plication in mind: methods based on the word-net structure (such as generalization, cousins, sis-ters...); co-occurrence of senses obtained fromSemcor; and equivalent translations of senses inother languages via the EuroWordNet InterLin-gual Index (ILI).
We conclude that a) differentNLP  applications demand not only different sensegranularities but different (possibly overlapped)sense elusterings, b) co-occurrence of senses inSemcor provide strong evidence for InformationRetrieval clusters, unlike methods based on word-net structure and systematic polysemy, c) parallelpolysemy in two or more languages via the ILI, be-sides providing sense clusters for MT and CLIR, iscorrelated with coocurring senses in Semcor, andthus can be useful to obtain IR dusters as well.Both approaches to IR clusters fbr WN/EWN(evidence from Semcor and from the ILl) seemvery promising.
The positive and negative evi-dence from SeIncor (above 500 clusters each) canpossibly be used in a Machine Learning approachto find additional dusters for the rem~inlng sensedistinctions without enough evidence from Sere-cot.
The parallel polysemy criteria, over EWN,  ishighly productive (more than one candidate perword in our experiments), although a more diverseset of languages would probably produce a higherrate of valid clusters.ReferencesP.
Bnitelaar.
1998.
CoreLex: systematic polysemyand underspecification.
Ph.D. thesis, Depart-ment of Computer Science, Brandeis University,Boston.P.
Buitelaar.
2000.
Reducing lexical semanticcomplexity with systematic polysemous classesand underspecillcation.
In Proceedings offANLP'2000.J.
Gonzalo, M. F. Verdejo, I. Chugur, andJ.
CigarrAn.
1.998.
Indexing with Wordnetsyusets can improve text retrievzd.
In Proceed-ings off the COLING/ACL Workshop on Us-age off WordNet in Natural Language Processing?
Systems.J.
Gonzalo, A. Pefias, and F. Verdejo.
1999.
Lex-ical ambiguity and information retrieval revis-ited.
In Proceedings off EMNLP/VLC'99 Con-ff e lq~ nce.A.
Kilgarriff and M. Palmer.
2000.
Special issueon senseval.
Computers and the Humanities,34(1-2).G.
Miller, C. Beckwith, D. Fellbaum, D. Gross,and K. Miller.
1990.
Five papers on Wordnet,CSL report 43.
Technical report, Cognitive Sci-ence Laboratory, Princeton University.W.
Peters and I. Peters.
2000.
Automatic senseclustering in EuroWordnet.
In Proceedings offLREC'2000.W.
Peters, I. Peters, and P. Vossen.
1998.
Lex-icalized systematic polysemy in EuroWordNet.In Proceedings of the First International Con-fference on Language Resources and Evaluation.P.
Resnik and D. Yarowsky.
1999.
Distinguishingsystems and distinguishing senses: New evalu-ation methods for word sense disambiguation.Natural Language Engineering.K.
Seto.
1996.
On the cognitive triangle: the re-lation of metaphor, metonymy and synecdoque.In A. Burkhardt and N. Norrich, editors, TropicTrutK De Gruyter.N.
Tomuro.
1998.
Semi-automatic induction ofsystematic polysemy from wordnet.
In Proceed-ings off COLING/A CL'98 workshop on the useof wordnet in NLP applications.F.
Verdejo, J. Gonzalo, A. Pefias, F. L6pez, andD.
Fermlndez.
2000.
Evaluating wordnets incross-language text retrieval: the item multilin-gual search engine.
In Proceedings LREC'2000.P.
Vossen, W. Peters, and J. Gonzalo.
1999.
To-wards a universal index of meaning.
In Proceed-ings off SIGLEX'g9.P.
Vossen.
1998.
Euro WordNet: a multilin-9ual database with lexical semantic networks.Kluwer Academic Publishers.18
