Telicity as a Cue to Tempora l  and Discourse Structure inChinese-Engl ish Machine Translation*Mari Olsen David TraumMicrosoft U Marylandmolsen@microsoft.com traum@cs.umd.eduCarol Van Ess-DykemaU.S.
Department ofDefensecarol@umiacs.umd.eduAmy WeinbergU Marylandweinberg@umiacs.umd.eduRon DolanLibrary of Congressrdolan@cfar.umd.eduAbstractMachine translation between any two languages re-quires the generation of information that is implicitin the source language.
In translating from Chineseto English, tense and other temporal informationmust be inferred from other grammatical and lex-ical cues.
Moreover, Chinese multiple-clause sen-tences may contain inter-clausal relations (temporalor otherwise) that must be explicit in English (e.g.,by means of a discourse marker).
Perfective and im-perfective grammatical aspect markers can providecues to temporal structure, but such information isnot present in every sentence.
We report on a projectto use the \]exical aspect features of (a)te\]icity re-flected in the Lexical Conceptual Structure of theinput text to suggest ense and discourse structurein the English translation of a Chinese newspapercorpus.1 IntroductionIt is commonly held that an appropriate interlinguamust allow for the expression of argument relationsin many languages.
This paper advances the state ofthe art of designing an interlingua by showing howaspectual distinctions (telic versus atelic) can be de-rived from verb classifications primarily influencedby considerations of argument structure, and howthese aspectual distinctions can be used to fill lexicalgaps in the source language that cannot be left un-specified in the target language.
Machine translationbetween any two languages often requires the gen-eration of information that is implicit in the sourcelanguage.
In translating from Chinese to English,tense and other temporal information must be in-ferred from other grammatical nd lexical cues.
Forexample, Chinese verbs do not necessarily specifywhether the event described is prior or cotempora-neous with the moment of speaking.
While gram-matical aspect information can be loosely associatedwith time, with imperfective aspect (Chinese ~ zai-and ~ .zhe) representing present ime and perfec-tiv e (Chinese T le )  representing past time, (Chu,* We gratefully acknowledge DOD support for this workthrough contract MDA904-96-R-07381998; Li and Thompson, 1981), verbs in the pastdo not need to have any aspect marking distinguish-ing them from present tense verbs.
Th is  is unlikeEnglish, which much more rigidly distinguishes pastfrom present ense through use of suffixes.
Thus, inorder to generate an appropriate English sentencefrom its Chinese counterpart, we need to fill in apotentially unexpressed tense.Moreover, Chinese multiple-clause ntences maycontain implicit relations between clauses (temporalor otherwise) that must be made explicit in English.These multiple-clause ntences are often most nat-urally translated into English including an overt ex-pression of their relation, e.g., the "and" linking thetwo clauses in (1), or as multiple sentences, as in (2)).
(1) 1 9 65  ~ ~ , ~ ,~1965 year before , our_country altogetheronly have 30 ten_thousand ton de~t ~2 , ~ ~ ~8shipbuilding capacity , year output is 8ten_thousand tonBefore 1965 China had a total of only 300,000tons of shipbuilding capacity and the annualoutput was 80,000 ~ons.
(2)~ 8~ ~ ~ ~d Ythis 8 ten_thousand ton actually include asp517 cl , ship de tonnage is very low deThis 80,000 tons actually included 517 ships.Ship tonnage was very low.In our NLP applications, we use a level of linguis-tic structure driven by the argument-taking proper-ties of predicates and composed monotonically up tothe sentence l vel.
The resulting Lexical ConceptualStructures (LCS) (3ackendoff, 1983), is a language-neutral representation of the situation (event orstate), suitable for use as an interlingua, e.g., formachine translation.
The LCS represents predicateargument structure abstracted away from language-specific properties of semantics and syntax.
The34primitives of the interlingua provide for monotoniccomposition that captures both conceptual nd syn-tactic generalities (Dorr et al, 1993) among lan-guages.
1 The strength of the representation derivesfrom the cross-linguistic regularities in the lexical se-mantics encoded in the LCS.
The syntactic hierarchy(subject, object, oblique) is mirrored in the LCS hi-erarchy: for example THEMES are arguments of theLCS predicate, and AGENTS are arguments of thetheme-predicate composition.
Syntactic divergences(whether the object precedes or follows the verb, forexample) are represented in language specific lin-earization rules; lexical divergences (whether the lo-cation argument is encoded irectly in the verb, e.g.the English verb pocket or must be saturated by anexterfial argument) are stated in terms of the piecesof LCS struct-ure in the lexicon.
SententiM repre-sentations derive from saturating the arguments re-quired by the predicates in the sentence.LCS rePresentations also include temporal infor-mation, where available in the source language: re-cent revisions include, for example (Dorr and Olsen,1997a) standardizing LCS representations for the as-pectual (un)boundedness ((A)TELICITY) of  events,either lexically or sententially represented.
Althoughat present he LCS encodes no supra-sentential dis-course relations, we show how the lexical aspect in-formation may be used to generate discourse co-herence in temporal structure.
Relations betweenclauses as constrained by temporal reference hasbeen examined in an LCS framework by Dorr andGaasterland (Dorr and Gaasterland, 1995).
Theyexplore how temporal connectives are constrainedin interpretation, based on the tense of the clausesthey connect.
While overt temporal connectives arehelpful when they appear, our corpus contains manysentences with neither tense markers nor tense con-nectives.
We must therefore look to a new source ofinformation.
We rely on the lexical information ofthe verbs within a sentence to generate both tenseand temporal connectives.Straightforward LCS analysis of many of themulti-clause sentences in our corpus leads to vio-lations of the wellformedness conditions, which pre-vent structures with events or states directly modi-fying other events or states.
LCS, as previously con-ceived, prohibits an event or state from standing in amodifier elationship to another event or state, with-out mediation of a path or position (i.e., as lexicallyrealized by a preposition).
This restriction reflectsthe insight hat (at least in English) when events andstates modify each other, the modification is eitherimplicit, with the relevant events and states in sepa-rate sentences (and hence separate LCSs), as in the1 LCS representations in our system have been created forKorean, Spanish and Arabic, as well as for English and Chi-nese.first sentence below, or explicit in a single sentence,as in the second sentence below.
Implicit event-statemodification (sentence 3) is prohibited.
* Wade bought a car.
He needed a way to get towork.
* Wade bought a car because he needed a way toget to work.
* * Wade bought a car he needed a way to get towork.It is exactly these third type that are permittedin standard Chinese and robustly attested in ourdata.
If the LCS is to be truly an interlingua, wemust extend the representation to allow these kindsof sentences to be processed.
One possibility is toposit an implicit position connecting the situationsdescribed by the multiple clauses.
In the source lan-guage analysis phase, this would amount o positinga disjunction of all possible position relations im-plicitly realizable in this language.
Another optionis to relax the wellformedness constraints to allowan event o directly modify another event.
This notonly fails to recognize the regularities we see in En-glish (and other language) LCS structures, for Chi-nese it merely pushes the problem back one step,as the set of implicitly realizable relations may varyfrom language to language and may result in someungrammatical or misleading translations.
The sec-ond option can be augmented, however, by factoringout of the interlingua (and into the generation code)language-specific principles for generating connec-tives using information i the LCS-structure, proper.For the present, this is the approach we take, us-ing lexical aspectual information, as read from theLCS structure, to generate appropriate mporal re-lations.Therefore not only tense, but inter-sentential dis-course relations must be considered when generatingEnglish from Chinese, even at the sentence l vel.
Wereport on a project to generate both temporal anddiscourse relations using the LCS representation.
Iparticular, we focus on the encoding of the lexical as-pect feature TELICITY and its complement ATELIG-ITY to generate past and present ense, and corre-sponding temporal relations for modifying clauseswithin sentences.
While we cannot at present di-rectly capture discourse relations, we can garner as-pectual class from LCS verb classification, which inturn can be used to predict he appropriate nse fortranslations ofChinese verbs into English.2 Use of Aspect to ProvideTemporal Informat ionWe begin with a discussion of aspectual features ofsentences, and how this information can be used toprovide information about the time of the situations35presented in a sentence.
Such information can beused to help provide clues as to both tense and rela-tionships (and cue words) between connected situa-tions.
Aspectual features can be divided into gram-matical aspect, which is indicated by lexical or mor-phological markers in a sentence, and lexical aspect,which is inherent in the meanings of words.2.1 Grammat ica l  aspectGrammatical aspect provides a viewpoint on situa-tion (event or state) structure (Smith, 1997).
Sinceimperfective aspect, such as the English PROGRES-SIVE construction be VERB- ing,  views a situationfrom within, it is often associated with presentor contemporaneous time reference.
On the otherhand, perfective aspect, such as the English haveVERB-ed, Views a situation as a whole; it is there-fore often associated with past time reference ((Com-rie, 1976; Olsen, 1997; Smith, 1997) cf.
(Chu,1998)).
The temporal relations are tendencies,rather than an absolute correlation: although theperfective is found more frequently in past tenses(Comrie, 1976), both imperfective and perfective co-occur in some language with past, present, and fu-ture tense.In some cases, an English verb will specify tenseand/or aspect for a complement.
For example, con-tinue requires either an infinitive (3)a or progressivecomplement (3)b (and subject drop), while otherverbs like say do not place such restrictions (3)c,d.
(3) a. Wolfe continued to publicize the baselesscriticism on various occasionsb.
Wolfe continued publicizing the baselesscriticism on various occasionsc.
Wolfe continued publicizing the baselesscriticism on various occasionsd.
He said the asia-pacific region already be-came a focal point regione.
He said the asia-pacific region already is be-coming a focal point region2.2 Lexical aspectWhile grammatical spect and overt temporal cuesare clearly helpful in translation, there are manycases in our corpus in which such cues are notpresent.
These are the hard cases, where we mustinfer tense or grammatical spectual marking in thetarget language from a source that looks like it pro-vides no overt cues.
We will show however, thatChinese does provide implicit cues through its lex-ical aspect classes.
First, we review what lexicalaspect is.Lexical aspect refers to the type of situation de-noted by the verb, alone or combined with othersentential constituents.
Verbs are assigned to lexicalaspect classes based on their behavior in a variety ofsyntactic and semantic frames that focus on three as-pectual features: telicity, dynamicity and durativity.We focus on telicity, also known as BOUNDEDNESS.Verbs that are telic have an inherent end: winning,for example, ends with the finish line.
Verbs that areatelic do not name their end: running could end witha distance run a mile or an endpoint run to the store,for example.
Olsen (Olsen, 1997) proposed that as-pectual interpretation be derived through monotoniccomposition of marked privative features \[?/0 dy-namic\], \[.4-/0 durative\] and \[-t-/0 telic\], as shown inTable 1 (Olsen, 1997, pp.
32-33).With privative features, other sentential con-stituents can add to features provided by the verbbut not remove them.
On this analysis, the \[.-I-du-rative, +dynamic\] features of run propagate to thesentence l vel in run ~o the store; the \[?telic\] featureis added by the NP or PP, yielding an accomplish-ment interpretation.
The feature specification of this?ompositionally derived accomplishment is hereforeidentical to that of a sentence containing a telic ac-complishment verb, such as destroy.According to many researchers, knowledge of lex-ical aspect--how verbs denote situations as devel-oping or holding in time-=may be used to interpretevent sequences in discourse (Dowty, 1986; Moensand Steedman, 1988; Passoneau, 1988).
In particu-lar, Dowty suggests that, absent other cues, a relicevent is interpreted as completed before the nextevent or state, as with ran into lhe room in 4a; incontrast, atelic situations, such as run, was hungryin 4b and 4% are interpreted as contemporaneouswith the following situations: fell and made a pizza,respectively.
(4) a. Mary ran into the room.
She turned on herwalkman.b.
Mary ran.
She turned on her walkman.c.
Mary was hungry.
She made a pizza.Smith similarly suggests that in English all pastevents are interpreted as telic (Smith, 1997) (but cf.
(Olsen, 1997)).Also, these tendencies are heuristic, and not abso-lute, as shown by the examples in (5).
While we getthe expected prediction that the jumping occurs af-ter the explosion in (5)(a), we get the reverse predic-tion in (5)(b).
Other factors such as consequences ofdescribed situations, discourse context, and stereo-typical causal relationships also play a role.
(5) a.
The building exploded.
Mary jumped.b.
The building exploded.
Chunks of concreteflew everywhere.36Aspectual  ClassStateActivity-~AccomplishmentAchievementTel ie Dynamic  Durat ive++ ,, , + __ run , paint+ + ++ +Examplesknow, havedestroynotice, winTable 1: Lexical Aspect Features3 Aspect  in Lex ica l  Conceptua lS t ructureOur implementation f Lexical ConceptuM Struc-ture (Dowty, 1979; Guerssel et al, 1985)--anaugmented form of (Jackendoff, 1983; Jackendoff,1990)--permits lexical aspect information to beread directly off the lexical entries for individualverbs, as well-as composed representations for sen-tences, using uniform processes and representations.The LCS framework consists of primitives (GO,BE, STAY, etc.
), types (Event, State, Path, etc.
)and fields (Loc(ational), Temp(oral), Foss(essional),Ident(ificational), Perc(eptual), etc.
).We adopt a refinement of the LCS representation,incorporating meaning components from the linguis-tically motivated notion of !ezical semantic template(LST), based on lexical aspect classes, as definedin the work of Levin and Rappaport Hovav (Levinand Rappaport Hovav, 1995; Rappaport l tovav andLevin, 1995).
Verbs that appear in multiple as-pectual frames appear in multiple pairings betweenconstants (representing the idiosyncratic meaningof the verb) and structures (the aspectual class).Since the aspectual templates may be realized ina variety of ways, other aspects of the structuralmeaning contribute to differentiating the verbs fromeach other.
Our current database contains ome 400classes, based on an initial representation f the 213classes in (Levin, 1993).
Our current working lexi-con includes about 10,000 English verbs and 18,000Chinese verbs spread out into these classes.Telic verbs (and sentences) contain certain typesof Paths, or a constant, represented by !
!, filled bythe verb constant, in the right most leaf-node argu-ment.
Some examples are shown below:depart (go foe (* thing 2)(away_from loc (thing 2)(at foe (thing 2)(* thing 4)))(!
!+ingly 26))insert (cause (* thing 1)(go loc (* thing 2)((* toward 5) loc (thing 2)( \ [at \ ]  loc (thing 2)(thing 6))) )(!
!+ingly 26))Each of these relic verbs has a potential coun-terpart with an atelic verb plus the requisite path.Depart, for example, corresponds to move away, orsomething similar in another language.We therefore identify telic sentences by the algo-rithm, formally specified in in Figure 1 (cf.
(Dorrand Olsen, 1997b) \[156\]).Given an LCS representation L:1.
Initialize: T(L):=\[?T\], D(L):=\[0R\], R(L):=\[0D\]2.
If Top node of L E {CAUSE, LET, GO}Then T(L):=\[+T\]If Top node of L E {CAUSE, LET}Then D(L):=\[+D\], R(L):=\[+R\]If Top node of L E {GO}Then D(L):=\[+D\]3.
If Top node of L E {ACT, BE, STAY}Then If Internal node ofL E {TO, TOWARD,  FORTemp}Then T(L):=\[+T\]If Top node of L E {BE, STAY}Then R(L):=\[+R\]If Top node of L E {ACT}Then set D(L):=\[+D\], R(L):=\[+R\]4.
Return T(L), D(L), R(L).Figure 1: Algorithm for Aspectual Feature Determi-nationThis algorithm applies to the structural primitivesof the interlingua structure rather than actual verbsin source or target language.
The first step initial-ized the aspectual values as unspecified: atelic f-T\],stative (not event: f-D\]), and adurative f-R\].
Firstthe top node is examined for primitives that indicatetelicity: if the top node is CAUSE, LET, GO, telicityis set to \[+T\], as with the verbs break, destroy, forexample.
(The node is further checked for dynamic-ity \[+D\] and durativity \[+R\] indicators, not in focusin this paper.
)If the top node is not a relic indicator(i.e., the verb is a basically atelic predicate such aslove or run, telicity may still be still be indicatedby the presence of complement odes of particulartypes: e.g.
a goal phrase (to primitive) in the case ofrun.
The same algorithm may be used to determinefelicity in either individual verbal entries (break but37not run) or composed sentences (John ran to ~hestore but not John ran.Similar mismatches of telicity between represen-tations of particular predicates can occur betweenlanguages, although there is remarkable agreementas to the set of templates that verbs with relatedmeanings will fit into (Olsen et al, 1998).
In theChinese-English interlingual system we describe, theChinese is first mapped into the LCS, a language-independent representation, from which the target-language sentence is generated.
Since telicity (andother aspects of event structure) are uniformly rep-resented at the lexical and the sentential level, telic-ity mismatches between verbs of different languagesmay then be compensated for by combining verbswith other .components.. o4 PredictionsBased on (Dowty, 1986) and others, as discussedabove, we predict that sentences that have a telicLCS will better translate into English as the pasttense, and those that lack telic identifiers will trans-late as present tense.
Moreover, we predict thatverbs in the main clause that are telic, will be pastwith respect o their subordinates (X then Y).
Verbsin the main clause that are atelic we predict will tem-porally overlap (X while Y).5 ImplementationLCSes are used as the interlingua for our machinetranslation efforts.
Following the principles in (Dorr,1993), lexical information and constraints on well-formed LCSes are used to compose an LCS for acomplete sentence from a sentence parse in a sourcelanguage.
This composed LCS (CLCS) is then usedas the starting points for generation into the targetlanguage, using lexical information and constraintsfor the target language.The generation component consists of the follow-ing subcomponents:Decomposi t ion and lexlcal selection First,primitive LCSes for words in the target lan-guage are matched against CLCSes, and treestructures of covering words are selected.
Am-biguity in the input and analysis representedin the CLCS is maintained (insofar as it ispossible to realize particular eadings using thetarget language lexicon), and new ambiguitiesare introduced when there are different ways ofrealizing a CLCS in the target language.AMR Construct ion This tree structure is thentranslated into a representation using the Aug-mented Meaning Representation (AMR) syntax?
of instances and hierarchical relations (Langk-fide and Knight, 1998a); however the rela-tions include information present in the CLCSand LCSes for target language words, includingtheta roles, LCS type, and associated features.Real izat ion The AMR structure is then linearized,as described in (Dorr et al, 1998), and mor-phological realization is performed.
The resultis a lattice of possible realizations, represent-ing both the preserved ambiguity from previousprocessing phases and multiple ways of lineariz-ing the sentence.Extract ion The final stage uses a statistical bi-gram extractor to pick an approximation of themost fluentrealization (Langkilde and Knight,1998b).While there are several possible ways to addressthe tense and discourse connective issues mentionedabove, such as modifying the LCS primitive lementsand/or the composition of the LCS from the sourcelanguage, we instead have been experimenting forthe moment with solutions implemented within thegeneration component.
The only extensions to theLCS language have been loosening of the constraintagainst direct modification of states and events byother states and events (thus allowing composed LC-Ses to be formed from Chinese with these structures,but creating a challenge for fluent generation intoEnglish), and a few added features to cover some ofthe discourse markers that are present.
We are ableto calculate telicity of a CLCS, using the algorithmin Figure 1 and encode this information as a binaryte l i?
feature in the Augmented Meaning Represen-tation (AMR).The realization algorithm has been augmentedwith the rules in (6)(6) a.
If there is no tense feature, use telicity todetermine the tense:: te l i c  + -~ : tense  past: re l i c  -- --~ : tense presentb.
In an event or state directly modifyinganother event or state, if there is no otherclausal connective (coming from a subor-dinating conjunction or post-position inthe original), then use telicity to pick aconnective expressing assumed temporalrelation:: re l i c  -~ -~ : scon j  then: re l i c  -- -~ : sconj while6 The CorpusWe have applied this machine translation system toa corpus of Chinese newspaper text from Xinhua andother sources, primarily in the economics domain.The genre is roughly comparable to the American38Wall Street Journal.
Chinese newspaper genre dif-fers from other Chinese textual sources, in a numberof ways, including:?
more complex sentence structure?
more extensive use of acronyms?
less use of Classical Chinese?
more representative grammar?
more constrained vocabulary (limited lexicon)?
abbreviations are used extensively in Chinesenewspaper headlinesHowever, the presence of multiple events andstates in a single sentence, without explicit modifi-catioia is characteristic ofwritten Chinese in general.In the 80-sentence corpus under consideration, thesentence structure is complex and stylized; with anaverage of 20 words per sentence.
Many sentences,such as (1)and (2), have multiple clauses that arenot in a direct complement relationship or indicatedwith explicit connective words.7 Ground TruthTo evaluate the extent to which our Predictions re-sult in an improvement in translation, we have useda database of human translations of  the sentencesin our corpus as the ground truth, or gold standard.One of the translators is included among our au-thors.The ground truth data was created to provide afluid human translation of the text early in our sys-tem development.
It therefore includes many com-plex tenses and multiple sentences combined, bothcurrently beyond the state of our system.
Thus,two of the authors and an additional researcheralso created a database of temporal relations amongthe clauses in the sentences that produced illegalevent/state modifications.
This was used to test pre-dictions of temporal relationships indicated by telic-ity.
In evaluating our results, we concentrate on howwell the System did at matching past and present,and on the appropriateness of temporal connectivesgenerated.8 ResultsWe have applied the rules in (6) in generating 80 sen-tences in the corpus (starting from often ambiguousCLCS analyses).
Evaluation is still tricky, since, inmany cases, the interlingua nalysis is incorrect orambiguous in ways that affect the appropriatenessof the generated translation.8.1 TenseAs mentioned above, evaluation can be very diffi-cult in a number of cases.
Concerning tense, our"gold standard" is the set of human translations,generated  tensepast p resenthuman past  134 17t rans la t ion  present  17 27Table 2: Preliminary Tense Resultspreviously constructed for these sentences.
In manycases, there is nothing overt in the sentence whichwould specify tense, so a mismatch might not actu-ally be "wrong".
Also, there are a number of sen-tences which were not directly applicable for com-parison, such as when the human translator chosea different syntactic structure or a complex tense.The newspaper articles were divided into 80 sen-tences.
Since some of these sentences were conjunc-tions, this yielded 99 tensed main verbs.
These verbseither appeared in simple present, past, present orpast perfect('has or had verb-t-ed), present or pastimperfective (is verb-l-lag , was verb--I--lag) and theircorresponding passive (is being kicked, was beingkicked, have been kicked) forms.
For cases like thepresent perfect ('has kicked), we noted the intendedmeaning ( e.g past activity) expressed by the verbas well as the verb's actual present perfective form.We scored the form as correct if the system trans-lated a present perfective with past tense meaningas a simple past or present perfective.
There were10 instances where a verb in the human translationhad no corresponding verb in the machine transla-tion, either due to incorrect omission or correct sub-stitution of the corresponding nominalization.
Weexcluded these forms from consideration.
If the sys-tem fails to supply a verb for independent reasons,our system clearly can't mark it with tense.
Theresults of our evaluation are summarized in Table 2.These results definitely improve over our previ-ous heuristic, which was to always use past tense(assuming this to be the default mode for newspa-per article reporting).
Results are also better thanalways picking present ense.
These results seem toindicate that atelicity is a fairly good cue for presenttense.
We also note that 8 out of the 14 cases wherethe human translation used the present ense whilethe system used past tense are headlines.
Headlinesare written using the historical present in English("Man bites Dog").
These sentences would not beincorrectly translated in the past ("The Man Bitthe Dog") Therefore, a fairer judgement might leaveonly remaining 6 incorrect cases in this cell.
Usingatelicity as a cue for the present yields correct re-sults approximately 65incorrect results 35worst caseresults because they do not take into account pres-ence or absence of the grammatical perfective andprogressive markers referred to in the introduction.398.2 Relat ionship between clausesResults are more preliminary for the clausal connec-tives.
Of the 80 sentences, 35 of them are flagged as(possibly) containing events or states directly mod-ifying other events or states.
However, of this num-ber, some actually do have lexical connectives repre-sented as featural rather than structural elements inthe LCS, and can be straightforwardly realized usingtranslated English connectives such as since, after,and if.then.
Other apparently "modifying" eventsor states should be treated as a complement rela-tionship (at least according to the preferred readingin ambiguous cases), but are incorrectly analyzedas being in a non-complement relationship, or haveother structural problems rendering the interlinguarepresentation and English output not directly re-lated to the original clause structure.Of the remaining clear cases, six while relation-ships were generated according to our heuristics, in-dicating cotemporaneousness of main and modifyingsituation, e.g.
(7)a,b, in the automated translationsof (1) and (2), respectively.
None were inappropri-ate.
Of the cases where then was generated, indicat-ing sequential events, there were four cases in whichthis was appropriate, and three cases in which thesituations really should have been cotemporaneous.While these numbers are small, this preliminary dataseems to suggest again that atelicity is a good cue forcotemporality, while telicity is not a sufficient cue.
(7) a.
Before 1965, China altogether only havethe ability shipbuilding about 300 thousandtons , while the annual output is 80 thou-sand tons.b.
this 80 thousand tons actually includes 517ships, while the ship tonnage is very low.9 Conclus ionsWe therefore conclude that lexical aspect can serveas a valuable heuristic for suggesting tense, in the ab-sence of tense and other temporal markers.
We an-ticipate incorporation of grammatical aspect infor-mation to improve our temporal representation fur-ther.
In addition, lexical aspect, as represented bythe interlingual LCS structure, can serve as the foun-dation for language specific heuristics.
Furthermore,the lexical aspect represented in the LCS can help toprovide the beginnings of cross-sentential discourseinformation.
We have suggested applications in thetemporal domain while, then.
Causality is anotherpossible domain in which relevant pieces encoded insentence-level LCS structures could be used to pro-vide links between LCSes/sentences.
Thus, the in-terlingual representation may be used to provide notonly shared semantic and syntactic structure, but"also the building blocks for language-specific heuris-tics for mismatches between languages.10 Future  ResearchThere are a number of other directions we intend topursue in extending this work.
First, we will evalu-ate the role of the grammatical spect markers men-tioned above, in combination with the telicity fea-tures.
Second, we will also examine the role of thenature of the modifying situation.
Third, we willincorporate other lexical information present in thesentence, including adverbial cue words (e.g.
now,already and specific dates that have time-related in-formation, and distinguishing reported speech fromother sentences.
Finally, as mentioned, these re-sults do not take embedded verbs or verbs in adjunctclauses into account.
Many adjunct and embeddedclauses are tenseless, making evaluation more diffi-cult.
For example, is The President believed Chinato be a threat equivalent to The president believedChina is a threat).ReferencesChauncey C. Chu.
1998.
A Discourse Grammar ofMandarin Chinese.
Peter Lang Publishing, Inc.,New York, NY.Bernard Comrie.
1976.
Aspect.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, Cambridge, MA.Bonnie J. Dorr and Terry Gaasterland.
1995.
Se-lecting Tense, Aspect, and Connecting Words inLanguage Generation.
In Proceedings of IJCAI-95, Montreal, Canada.Bonnie J. Dorr and Marl Broman Olsen.
1997a.
As-pectual Modifications to a LCS Database for NLPApplications.
Technical Report LAMP TR 007,UMIACS TR 97-23, CS TR 3763, University ofMaryland, College Park, MD.Bonnie J. Dorr and Marl Broman Olsen.
1997b.Deriving Verbal and Compositional Lexical As-pect for NLP Applications.
In Proceedings of the35th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (ACL-97), pages 151-158,Madrid, SPain , July 7-12.Bonnie J. Doff, James Hendler, Scott Blanksteen,and Barrie Migdaloff.
1993.
Use of Lexical Con-ceptual Structure for Intelligent Tutoring.
Tech-nical Report UMIACS TR 93-108, CS TR 3161,University of Maryland.Bonnie J. Dorr, Nizar Habash, and David Traum.1998.
A Thematic HieJfarchy for Efficient Gener-ation from Lexical-ConceptM Structure.
In Pro-ceedings of the Third Conference of the Associ-ation for Machine Translation in the Americas,AMTA-98, in Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelli-gence, 15~9, pages 333-343, Langhorne, PA, Oc-tober 28-31.Bonnie J. Dorr.
1993.
Machine Translation: A Viewfrom the Lexicon.
The MIT Press, Cambridge,MA.4.0David Dowty.
1979.
Word Meaning in MontagueGrammar.
Reidel, Dordrecht.David Dowty.
1986.
The Effects of Aspectual Classon the Temporal Structure of Discourse: Seman-tics or Pragmatics?
Linguistics and Philosophy,9:37-61.Mohamed Guerssel, Kenneth Hale, Mary Laugh-ten, Beth Levin, and Josie White Eagle.
1985.A Cross-linguistic Study of Transitivity Alterna-tions.
In W. H. Eilfort, P. D. Kroeber, and K. L.Peterson, editors, Papers from the Parasession onCausatives and Agentivity at the Twenty.First Re-gional Meeting, CLS P1, Part P, pages 48-63.
TheChicago Linguistic Society, Chicago, IL, April.Ray Jackendoff.
1983.
Semantics and Cognition.The MIT P.r?ss, Cambridge, MA.Ray Jackendoff.
1990.. Semantic Structures.
TheMIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Irene Langkilde and Kevin Knight.
1998a.
Gen-eratiort that Exploits Corpus-Based StatisticalKnowledge.
In Proceedings of COLING-ACL '98,pages 704-710.Irene Langkilde and Kevin Knight.
1998b.
ThePractical Value of N-Grams in Generation.
In In-ternational Natural Language Generation Work-shop.Beth Levin and Malka Rappaport Hovav.
1995.
Un-accusativity: At the Syntaz-Lexical Semantics In-terface.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.
LIMonograph 26.Beth Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alter-nations: A Preliminary Investigation.
Universityof Chicago Press, Chicago, IL.Charles Li and Sandra Thompson.
1981.
MandarinChinese: A functional reference grammar.
Uni-versity of California Press, Berkeley, CA.Marc Moens and Mark Steedman.
1988.
Tempo-ral Ontology and Temporal Reference.
Compu-lational Linguistics: Special Issue on Tense andAspect, 14(2):15-28.Mart Broman Olsen, Bonnie J. Dorr, and Scott C.Thomas.
1998.
Enhancing Automatic Acquisi-tion of Thematic Structure in a Large-Scale Lex-icon for Mandarin Chinese.
In Proceedings of theThird Conference of the Association for MachineTranslation in the Americas, AMTA-98, in Lec-ture Notes in Artificial Intelligence, 1529, pages41-50, Langhorne, PA, October 28-31.Mart Broman Olsen.
1997.
A Semantic and Prag-matic Model of Lexical and Grammatical Aspect.Garland, New York.Rebecca Passoneau.
1988.
A Computational Modelof the Semantics of Tense and Aspect.
Compu-tational Linguistics: Special Issue on Tense andAspect, 14(2):44-60.Malka P~appaport Hovav and Beth Levin.
1995.The Elasticity of Verb Meaning.
In Processes inArgument Structure, pages 1-13, Germany.
SfS-Report-06-95, Seminar fiir Sprachwissenschaft,Eberhard-Karls-Universit~t Tiibingen, Tiibingen.Carlota Smith.
1997.
The parameter of aspect.Kluwer, Dordrecht, 2nd edition.41
