Natural Language ~-~I Planner PAR graphicsFigure 3: General architecture of the animation systemThe planner uses information from the generalschema, such as pre-conditions and post-assertions,as well as information derived from the agents' ca-pabilities and the objects properties to fill in thesegaps in several ways:?
to select he way (activity) in which the instruc-tion is performed (enter by walking, by swim-ming, etc.);?
to determine the prepartory actions that mustbe completed before the instruction is carriedout, (for example, in order for an agent o openthe door, the door has to be reachable and thatmay involve a locomotion process);?
to decompose the action into smaller units (putthe glass on the table, involves getting the glass,planning a route to the table, etc.
)The output of the planner for the input instructionis a complete description of the actions involved, in-cluding participants, preparatory specifications, ter-mination conditions, manner, duration, etc.
Partic-ipants bring with them a list of inherent propertiesof the agent (e.g.
agent capabilities) or physical ob-jects (e.g., object configurations) and other charac-teristics, such as 'how to open' for an object suchas a door.
This complete description refers to a setof animation PARS which can be immediately ani-mated.In this way, a PAR schema for the action entermay actually translate into an animation PAR forwalking into a certain area.
One way to differenti-ate between action PAR schemas and instantiatedanimation PARs is to consider what it is possible tomotion capture 4 (by attaching sensors to a movinghuman figure).
For example, the enter action andthe put action are quite general and underspecifiedand could not be motion captured.
However, char-acteristic activities such as walking and swimmingcould be.
For further details about the animationPARs and the animation system see (Badler et al,1999) and (Bindiganavaie et al, 2000).4 PAR as an ILThe PAR representation for an action can be seen asa general template.
PAR schemas include, as partof the basic sub-categorization frame, properties of4There are several other ways to generate motions, forexample, through inverse kinematics, dynamics and key-framing.the action that can occur linguistically either as themain verb or as adjuncts to the main verb phrase.This captures problems of divergences, uch as theones described by Talmy (Talmy, 1991), for verb-framed versus satellite-framed languages.New information may come from a sentence innatural anguage that modifies the action's inherentproperties, uch as in John hit the ball slowly, where'slowly' is not part of the initial representation ofthe action 'hit'.
This new information is added tothe PAR schema.Verb- versus Satel l i te-framed languagesVerb-Framed Languages (VFL) map the motion(path or path + ground location) onto the verb,and the manner either onto a satellite or an ad-junct, while Satellite-Framed Languages (SFL) mapthe motion into the satellite, and the manner ontothe main verb.English and other Germanic languages are consid-ered satellite-framed languages, expressing the pathin the satellite; Spanish, among other Romance lan-guages, is a verb-framed language and expresses thepath in the main verb.
The pairs of sentences (1)and (2) from Talmy (1991) show examples of thesedivergences.
In (1), in English, the exit of the bot-tle is expressed by the preposition out, in Spanishthe same concept is incorporated in the main verbsalir (to exit).
In (2), the concept of blowing outthe candle is represented differently in English andSpanish.
(1) The bottle .floated outLa boteUa sali6 flotando(the bottle exited floating)(2) I blew out the candleApagud la vela sopldndola(I extinguish the candle blowing)4.1 Mot ionIn order to capture generalizations about motion ac-tions, we have a generalized PAR schema for mo-tion, and our hierarchy includes different ypes ofmotion actions such as inherently directed motionand manner of motion actions that inherit from themore general schema, as shown in Figure 4.
Directedmotion actions, such as enter and exit, don't bringwith them the manner by which the action is carriedout but they have a inherent ermination condition.For example, 'enter a room' may be done by walk-ing, crawling or flying depending on the agents' ca-14motion/(par: motion)directed_motion manner_raotionenter/(term: in (0B J) ) exit/(term: out (0B J) ) crawl/(act : crawl) f loat/(act ::f loat)Figure 4: PAR schema hierarchy for motion actionspabilities, but it should end when the agent is in theroom.
In contrast, manner of motion verbs expressthe action explicitly and don't have an intrinsic ter-mination condition.Motion is a type of framing event where the pathis in the main verb for VFLs and in the satellite forSFLs.
In (3), we see the English sentence expressingthe 'enter' idea in the preposition into whereas theSpanish sentence expresses it in the main verb entrar(to enter).
(3) The bottle floated into the caveLa botella entr5 flotando a la cueva(the bottle entered floating the cave)The PAR schemas don't distinguish the represen-tation for these sentences, because there is a sin-gle schema which includes both the manner and thepath without specifying how they are realiized lin-guistically.
Mappings from the lexical items to theschemas or to constraints in the schemas can be seenin Figure 5.
5 Independent of which is the source lan-guage, the PAR schema selected is motion, the ac-tivity field, which determines how the action is per-formed (in this case, by floating), is filled by float(the main verb in English, or the adjunct in Span-ish).
The termination condition, which says thataction ends when the agent is in the object, is addedfrom the preposition in English and is part of thesemantics of the main verb to enter in Spanish.EN float/\[par:motion,activity:float\]into/\[term:in(AG,OBJ)\]SP entrar/\[par:motion,term:in(AG,OBJ)\]flotar/\[activity :float\]Figure 5: Entries for the example sentences in (3)Because all of the necessary elements for a trans-lation are specified in this representation, it is up5A lexical item may have several mappings toreflect itssemantics: For instance, float in English can be used also inthe non-motion sense, in which case there will be two entriesto capture that distinction.MOTION PARactivity : floatagent :participants : object :bottle \]cavetermination_cond : in(bott le,  cave)Figure 6: A (simplified) PAR schema for the sen-tences in (3)to the language specific component to transform itinto a surface structure that satisfies the grammati-cal principles of the destination language.Comparison with other workOur approach now diverges considerably from theapproach outlined in Palmer et al (1998) whichdiscusses the use of Feature-Based Tree AdjoiningGrammars, (Joshi, 1985; Vijay-Shanker and Joshi,1991) to capture generalizations about manner-of-motion verbs.
They do not propose an interlin-gua but use a transfer-based mechanism expressedin Synchronous Tree Adjoining Grammars to cap-ture divergences of VFL and SFL through the useof semantic features and links between the gram-mars.
The problem of whether or not a preposi-tional phrase constitutes an argument to a verb oran adjunct (described by Palmer et al) does notconstitute a problem in our representation, since allthe information is recovered in the same templatefor the action to be animated.The PAR approach is much more similar tothe Lexical Conceptual Structures (LCS) approach,(Jackendoff, 1972; Jackendoff, 1990), used as an in-terlingua representation (Doff, 1993).
Based on theassumption that motion and manner of motion areconflated in a matrix verb like swim, the use of LCSallows separation of the concepts of motion, direc-tion, and manner of motion in the sentence Johnswam across the lake.
Each one of these concepts i15represented separately in the interlingua represen-tation, as GO, PATH and MANNER, respectively.Our approach allows for a similar representation a dthe end result is the same, namely that the event ofswimming across the lake is characterized by sepa-rate semantic omponents, which can be expressedby the main schema nd by the activity field.
In ad-dition, our representation also incorporates detailsabout the action such as applicability conditions,preparatory specifications, termination conditions,and adverbial modifiers.
It is not clear to us howthe LCS approach could be used to effect the samecommonality of representation.4.2 Ins t rumentThe importance of the additional information suchas the termination conditions can be more clearlyillustrated with a different set of examples.
Anotherclass of actions that presents interesting divergencesinvolves instruments where the instrument is usedas the main verb or as an adjunct depending on thelanguage.
The sentence pair in (4) shows this di-vergence for English and Portuguese.
Because Por-tuguese does not have a verb for to spoon, it usesa more general verb colocar (to put) as the mainverb and expresses the instrument in a prepositionalphrase.
Unlike directed motion actions, a put withhand-held instrument action (e.g., spoon, scoop, la-dle, etc.)
leaves the activity field unspecified in bothlanguages.
The specific action is generated by takingthe instrument into account.
A simplified schema isshown in Figure 7.
(4) Mary spoons chocolate over the ice creamMary coloca chocolate sobre o sorvete comacolher(Mary puts chocolate over the ice cream witha spoon)PUT3 PARactivity : -participants :agent: Maryobjects: chocolate,icecresm,spoonpreparatory_spec : get(Mary, spoon)termination_cond : over(chocolate, icecream)Figure 7: Representation f the sentences in (4)Notice that the only connection between to spoonand its Portuguese translation would be the termi-nation condition where the object of the verb, choco-late, has a new location which is over the ice cream.5 Conc lus ionWe have discussed a parameterized representationof actions grounded by the needs of animation ofinstructions in a simulated environment.
In orderto support he animation of these instructions, ourrepresentation makes explicit many details that areoften underspecified in the language, such as startand end states and changes in the environment thathappen as a result of the action.Sometimes the start and end state informationprovides critical information for accurate translationbut it is not always necessary.
Machine translationcan often simply preserve ambiguities in the transla-tion without resolving them.
In our application wecannot afford this luxury.
An interesting questionto pursue for future work will be whether or not wecan determine which PAR slots are not needed formachine translation purposes.Generalizations based on action classes providethe basis for an interlingua pproach that capturesthe semantics of actions without committing to anylanguage-dependent specification.
This frameworkoffers a strong foundation for handling the rangeof phenomena presented by the machine translationtask.The structure of our PAR schemas incorpo-rate into a single template the kind of divergencepresented in verb-framed and satellite-framed lan-guages.
Although not shown in this paper, thisrepresentation can also capture idioms and non-compositional constructions since the animations ofactions - and therefore the PARs that control them- must be equivalent for the same actions describedin different languages.Currently, we are also investigating the possibilityof building these action representations from a class-based verb lexicon which has explicit syntactic andsemantic information (Kipper et al, 2000).AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank the Actionarygroup, Hoa Trang Dang, and the anonymous review-ers for their valuable comments.
This work was par-tially supported by NSF Grant 9900297.ReferencesNorman I. Badler, Martha Palmer, and Rama Bindi-ganavale.
1999.
Animation control for real-timevirtual humans.
Communications off the ACM,42(7):65-73.Norman I. Badler, Rarna Bindiganavale, Jan All-beck, William Schuler, Liwei Zhao, and MarthaPalmer, 2000.
Embodied Conversational Agents,chapter Parameterized Action Representation forVirtual Human Agents.
MIT Press.
to appear.Rama Bindiganavale, William Schuler, Jan M. All-beck, Norman I. Badler, Aravind K. Joshi, and16Martha Palmer.
2000.
Dynamically altering agentbehaviors using natural language instructions.Fourth International Conference on AutonomousAgents, June.Hoa Trang Dang, Karin Kipper, Martha Palmer,and Joseph Rosenzweig.
1998.
Investigating reg-ular sense extensions based on intersective l vinclasses.
In Proceedings of COLING-A CL98, pages293-299, Montreal, CA, August.Bonnie J. Dorr.
1993.
Machine Translation: A Viewfrom the Lexicon.
MIT Press, Boston, MA.R.
Jackendoff.
1972.
Semantic Interpretation inGenerative Grammar.
MIT Press, Cambridge,Massachusetts.R.
Jackendoff.
1990.
Semantic Structures.
MITPress, Boston, Mass.Aravind K. Joshi.
1985.
How much context sensi-tivity is necessary for characterizing structural de-scriptions:.
Tree adjoining rammars.
In L. Kart-tunen D. Dowry and A. Zwicky, editors, Nat-ural language parsing: Psychological, computa-tional and theoretical perspectives, pages 206-250.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, U.K.Aravind K. Joshi.
1987.
An introduction to tree ad-joining grammars.
In A. Manaster-Ramer, ditor,Mathematics of Language.
John Benjamins, Ams-terdam.Karin Kipper, Hoa Trang Dang, and MarthaPalmer.
2000.
Class-based construction of a verblexicon.
In submitted to AAALBeth Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alter-nation, A Preliminary Investigation.
The Univer-sity of Chicago Press.Martha Palmer, Joseph Rosenzweig, and WilliamSchuler.
1998.
Capturing Motion Verb General-izations with Synchronous TAG.
In Patrick St.Dizier, editor, Predicative Forms in NLP.
KluwerPress.William Schuler.
1999.
Preserving semantic depen-dencies in synchronous tree adjoining grammar.Proceedings of the 37th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics (ACL'99).Stuart M. Shieber and Yves Schabes.
1990.
Syn-chronous tree adjoining rammars.
In Proceedingsof the 13th International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics (COLING '90), Helsinki, Fin-land, August.Stuart M. Shieber.
1994.
Restricting the weak-generative capability of synchronous tree adjoin-ing grammars.
Computational Intelligence, 10(4).Leonard Talmy.
1991.
Path to realization-via as-pect and result.
In Proceedings of the 17th AnnualMeeting of the Berkeley Linguistic Society, pages480-519.K.
Vijay-Shanker and Aravind Joshi.
1991.
Uni-fication based tree adjoining grammars.
InJ.
Wedekind, editor, Unification-based Grammars.MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.17
