RSTToo l  2 .4  - A Markup  Too l  fo r  Rhetor ica l  S t ruc ture  TheoryMichael O'Donnell (micko@dai.ed.ac.uk)Division of Informatics, University of Edinburgh.Abst rac tRSTTool is a graphical tool for annotating a text interms of its rhetorical structure.
The demonstrationwill show the various interfaces of the tool, focusingon its ease of use.1 In t roduct ionThis paper describes the RSTTool, a graphical in-terface for marking up the structure of text.
Whileprimarily intended to be used for marking up Rhet-orical Structure (cf.
Rhetorical Structure Thegry(RST): Mann and Thompson (1988)), the tool alsoallows the mark-up of constituency-style analysis, asin Hasan's Generic Structure Potential (GSP - cf.Hasan (1996)).The tool is written in the platform-independentscripting language, Tcl/Tk, and thus works underWindows, Macintosh, UNIX and LINUX operatingsystems.RSTTool is easy to use, one creates an RST dia-gram from a text by dragging from segment to seg-ment, indicating rhetorical dependency.
There is aseparate interface for text segmentation.
The toolcan automatically segment at sentence boundaries(with reasonable accuracy), and the user clicks onthe text to add boundaries missed by the automaticsegmenter (or click on superfluous boundaries to re-move them).The tool was previously described in O'Donnell(1997).
However, since then tile tool has been sub-stantially revised and extended,(the current versionbeing 2.4).
This version is also far more robust dueto extensive debugging by one of RST's inventor's,Bill Mann.
Particular improvements in the tool in-clude:1.
GUI for defining relation: ability to add, re-name, delete, etc.
tile relations used using agraphical user interface.2.
St.atistical Analysis: a new interface was added.which allows users to be presented with statist-its regarding the proportional use of relationsin a text.3.
Output Options: the new tool allows savingof RST analyses in postscript (for inclusion inLatex documents), or sending diagrams directlyto the printer.
Files are now saved in an XMLformat, to facilitate importation in other sys-tems.4.
Improved Structuring: the possibilities forstructuring have improved, allowing the in-sertion of spans, multinuclear elements andschemas within existing structure.The Tool consists of four interfaces, which will bedescribed in following sections:1.
Text Segmentation: for marking the boundariesbetween text segments;2.
Text Structuring: for marking the structural re-lations between these segments;3.
Relation Editor: for maintaining the set of dis-course relations, and schemas;4.
Statistics: for deriving simple descriptive stat-istics based on the analysis.2 What  is RSTToo l  For?The RSTTool is an analysis tool, but most users ofthe tool are researchers in the text generation field.For this reason, we present he tool at this confer-ence.Several reasons for using the tool are:.
Corpus Studies: before one can generate text,one nmst understand the rhetorical patterns oflanguage.
By performing analyses of texts sin>ilar to which one wishes to generate, one canidentify the recurrent structures in tile text-typeand work towards understanding their contextof use.o Results Verification: often, a particular studymay be challenged by other researchers.
If thestudy was performed using RSTTool, the cor-pus supporting the study can be released foranalysis by others.
Previously, most RST ana-lysis was done bv hand, malting distribution of253.~.L .
.
~ .
.
?
.
~ ~ ~ .
~ , ~ ~  ~ , .
&~.-.,~15~5~;, ,~.~2~9~:.~., ~$ ..g-= '.
, ,.~ * ."
?
.
:, z~ .
.
.
.
.
?
a~ _ w i t h  the ~oftware~~ d i v i d u a l f ' ~ e s .
\ ]  .
.
...... he author hereby gra, t permission to use, copy, modify,~d is t r ibute ,  and license this software and ?t6  documentation for~ a n y  purpose, ~ provided that existing copyright notices are~ '~reta ined  in all copies; and that this notice is iscluded verbat im~ | i n  any distributions.~ No written agree~aent, license, or royalty fee is required for any of the authorized use~s.i~.~,~,~,~,~IModtflcations .
to th i s  software may be copyrighted by their~|authors< mnd need not follow the licensing terms described here,:(~h~9~prov ided  that~ the new terms are clearly indicated on the first~N.
:'t&~NI~ge of e~h file ~here ~h~y ~pp~y.
:!Figure h The Segmentation I terfacecorpora difficult.
RSTTool thus not only sim-plifies the production of the corpus, but alsoallows ease of distribution and verification..
Diagram Preparation: the RSTTool can also beused for diagram preparation, for inclusion inpapers.
The tool allows diagrams to be expor-ted as EPS files, ready for inclusion in LaTeXdocuments (as demonstrated in this paper).
ForPCs and Mac, screen-dumps of diagrams arepossible (Tcl/Tk does not yet fully support ex-port of GIF or JPG formats, and conversionfrom EPS to other formats is primitive).
Someversions of MS Word allow the inclusion of EPSdiagrams.o A Teaching Tool: by getting students to analysetexts with the RSTTool, teachers of discoursetheory can increase the student's understandingof the theory.To allow RSTTool analyses to be more generallyusable, the tool now saves its analyses in an XMLformat, making loading into other systems for pro-cessing much simpler.3 Segmentat ion  In ter faceThe first step in RST analysis is to deternline seg-ment boundaries.
RSTTool provides an interface tofacilitate this task.
The user starts by "importing" aplain text file.
The user can then automatically seg-ment at sentence boundaries by pressing the "Sen-tences" button.
This segmentation is not 100% re-liable, but is reasonably intelligent.
The user carlthen correct any mistakes made by the automaticsegnrentation, and also add in segment boundarieswithin sentences.To add a segment boundary, the user simply clicksat the t)oint of the text where the boundary is de-sired.
A boundary marker is inserted.
To temovea boundary, the user simply clicks on the boundarymarker.
Figure 1 shows the Segmentation i terfaceafter clausal segmentation.The user can also edit the text, correcting mis-takes, etc.,.by switching to Edit mode.The user then moves to the Structuring interfaceby clicking on the "Structurer" button at the top ofthe window.
Note that the user can return at anypoint to the Segmentation i terface, to change seg-ment boundaries, or edit text.
These changes areautomatically accounted for in the structuring com-ponent.4 S t ruc tur ing  In ter faceThe next step involves structuring the text.
Thesecond interface of the RSTTool allows the user toconnect he segments into a rhetorical structure tree.as shown in figure 2.
We have followed the graphicalstyle presented in Mann and Thompson (1988).The tool supports not only RST structuring, butalso constituency structuring.
I believe that textscannot always be analysed totally in ternrs of rhet-orical relations, and that some level of schematicanalysis complements the rhetorical analysis.
Forinstance, a typical conference paper (such as thisone) can be assigned a top level schematic structureofT i t le  - Author  ^ Ins t i tu t ion  - Abst rac t" Sect ion*  - B ib l iographyThe R.STTool allows intermixing of such schemawith RST analysis.Initially, all segments are unconnected, ordered atthe top of the window.
The user can then drag tilemouse from one segment (tile satelite) to another(the nucleus) to link them.The system allows both plain RST relations andalso multi-nuclear relations (e.g., Joint, Sequence,254Figure 2: The Structuring Interface1-2 3-4When he took it It was as heavy and he was because heup, as lead, going to throw it thought a trickaway, had been playedon him.Figure 3: RST StructuringOrie_ =TWO old men 2-3sitting talking Ina reUrement ______~-'~e~oenc>.~__home.
One asks, The other"How's your replies, "Nomemory?"
problem at all,touch wood", ashe knocked onthe oak table.Pun; l ineTwo minutes goby, and he says"isn't anyonegoing to get thatdoor!
"Figure 4: Schema-based Structuringetc.).
Scoping is also possible, whereby tile user in-dicates that the nucleus of a relation is not a seg-ment itself, but rather a segment and all of its satel-lites.
See figure 3 for an example combining normalRST relations (Circumstance, Motivation); nmlti-nuclear structure (Conjunction), and scoping (thenodes marked 1-2 and 3-4).
In addition, schemascan be used to represent constituency-type struc-tures.
See figure 4.Because RST-structures can become very elabor-ate, the RSTTool allows the user to collapse sub-trees - hiding the substructure under a node.
Thismakes it easier, for instance, to comtect wo nodeswhich normally would not appear on the same pageof the editor.5 Editing RelationsThe tool provides an interface for editing relationsets.
The user can add, delete or rename relations.If the relation is in use in the current analysis, thechanges are propagated throughout the analysis.6 Statistical AnalysisDiscussions on the RST mail list have demonstratedthat there is a community concern with frequencyof different relations in specific text-types.
TheRSTTool, by providing counts of relations within atext, supports this research goal.
See figure 5.The interface shows not only the frequency of re-lations, but also the ratio of Nuc Sat orderings toSat lquc orderings for the relation (valuable data forboth generation and automatic discourse structurerecognition).7 SummaryRSTTool is a robust tool which facilitates manualanalysis of a text's rhetorical structure.
These ana-lyses can be used for a number of purposes, includingi) to improve understanding of discourse structure,to aid in either text generation or analysis; ii) dia-gram preparation, and iii) as a teaching tool.The main improvement in the latest version of thetool is the statistical analysis interface.
Later ver-sions of the.tool will extend oll this aspect, increas-ing the range of analyses which can be performed oneach text, or collection of texts.Future versions will also add code for automaticstructure recognition, using such work ms Marcu'sRST recognition tool (Marcu, 1997).
While tile au-thor believes that automatic recognition is not yetreliable, integrating such a tool into an R ST Markup255Figure 5: The Statistics Interfacetool allows the recognition software to provide a firstdraft, which the human editor can correct to theirliking.
At present, such a mixture of automatic andhuman-directed mark-up is the best way of achievingaccurate mark-up of text structure.Re ferencesRuqaiya Hasan.
1996.
The nursery tale as a genre.In Carmel Cloran, David Butt, and Geoff Willi-ams, editors, Ways of Saying: Ways of Meaning.Cassell, London.
Previously published in Notting-ham Linguistics Circular 13, 1984.W.C.
Mann and S. Thompson.
1988.
Rhetoricalstructure theory: Toward a functional theory oftext organization.
Text, 8(3):243-281.Daniel Marcu.
1997.
The rhetorical parsing ofnatural language texts.
In The Proceedings ofthe 35th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, (A CL '97lEA CL '97),pages 96-103, Madrid, Spain, July 7-10.Michael O'Donnell.
1997.
Rst-tool: An rst analysistool.
In Proceedings off the 6th European Work-shop on Natural Language Generation, pages 92 -96, Gerhard-Mercator University, Duisburg, Ger-many, March 24 - 26.256
