gency dispatcher, cooperating with the system todynamically allocate resources to and makeplans for solving problems as they arise in theworld.
The setting, Monroe County, NY, is con-siderably more complex than our previous do-mains (e.g.
Pacifica, TRAINS), and raises newissues in knowledge representation a d refer-ence.
Emergencies include requests for medicalassistance, car accidents, civil disorder, andlarger problems such as flooding and snowstorms.
Resources at the user's disposal mayinclude road crews, electric crews, ambulances,police units and helicopters.
Some of the in-crease in mixed-initiative interaction comesfrom givi-n~ the_ system more knowledge of thetasks being solved.
Some comes from the factthat the solution to one problem may conflictwith the solution to another, either because ofscheduling conflicts, scarce resources, or aspectsof the physical world (e.g.
an ambulance can't godown a road that has not been plowed).
Therange of tasks and complexity of the world allowfor problem solving at different levels of granu-larity, making it possible for the system to takeas much control over the task as the user per-mits.4.
Important  Contr ibut ionsWhile a number of robust dialogue systems havebeen built in recent years, they mostly have op-erated in domains that require little if any rea-soning.
Rather, the task is hard-coded into thesystem operation.
One of the major goals of theTRIPS project has been to develop dialoguemodels and system architectures that supportconversational interaction in domains wherecomplex reasoning systems are required.
Onegoal has been to build a fairly generic model inwhich different domains can then be specifiedfairly easily.
On this front, we are seeing somesuccess as we have now constructed versions ofTRIPS in three different domains, and TRIPS?911 will be the fourth.
In developing the systemfor new domains, the bulk of the work by far hasbeen in system enhancements rather than indeveloping the domain models.The TRIPS-911 domain has forced a rethinkingof the relationship between dialogue-management, problem-solving, the system'sFigure 1: Monroe County map used in TRIPS-911own goal-pursuit and generation.
The new ar-chitecture is designed to support research intomixed-initiative interactions, incremental gen-eration of content (in which the user might in-tervene before the system completes all it has tosay), rich reference resolution models, and theintroduction of plan monitoring and plan repairinto the suite of plan management operationssupported.
The domain also can support longerand richer dialogues than in previous domains.More complex domains mean even more com-plex dialogues.
The complexity arises frommany factors.
First, more complex dialogueswill involve topic progression, development andresumption, and more complex referential phe-nomena.
On the problem solving front, there willbe more complex corrections, elaborations andmodifications--forcing us to develop richerdiscourse models.
In addition, the complexity ofthe domain demonstrates a need for bettergrounding behavior and a need for incrementaldialogue-based generation.We have by no means solved these problems.Rather we have built a rich testbed, designed andimplemented a plausible architecture, and haveconstructed an initial system to demonstratebasic capabilities in each of the problem areas.345.
LimitationsTRIPS-911 is a first attempt at handling a do-main of this complexity.
As such there are manycapabilities that people have in such situationsthat are beyond the system's current capabilities.Some of the most important are:?
Scale - we can only handle small domainsand the existing techniques would not ex-tend directly to a realistic size 911 operation.To scale up we must face some difficultproblems including reasoning about quanti-ties and aggregates, planning in large-scaledomains (i.e., the real domains are beyondthe capabilities of current plan technology),and performing intention recognition as thenumber of options increases.
In addition, foran effective dialogue system, all this must bedone in real-time.?
Meta-talk - when faced with complex prob-lems, people often first generally discuss theproblem and possible strategies for solvingit, and later may explicitly direct attention tospecific subproblems.
The current TRIPSsystem does not support such discussion.?
Time - in the 911 domain there are at leasttwo temporal contexts that can be "used" bythe conversants: there is the actual time (i.e.,when they are talking), but there also is thetime relative to a point of focus in a plan, oreven simply talking about the past or thefuture.
TRIPS-911 can currently interpretexpressions with respect to the actual time.?
Interleaved generation - when people arediscussing complex issues, they often haveto plan to communicate heir content acrossseveral different utterances.
There is noguarantee that the other conversant will not"interrupt" (e.g., to clarify, correct, suggestalternatives, etc) before the entire content isconveyed.
This requires a rethinking of cur-rent practice in generation to make it incre-mental and interactive.?
True interruptions - people may interrupt thesystem while it is talking.
It is unclear at thisstage what the system should assume wasconveyed.
The strategies of assuming noth-ing was conveyed, or that all was conveyedhave obvious faults.
We are pursuing alter-natives based on knowing when speech wasinterrupted, but using this ififormation suc-cessfully remains adifficult problem.ReferencesAllen, James et al An Architecture for a GenericDialogue Shell, to appear, J.
Natural LanguageEngineering, 2000.Ferguson, George and J. Allen,-TRIPS: An IntegratedIntelligent Problem-Solving Assistant, Proc.
Na-tional Conference on AI (AAAI-98), Madison, WI,1998.35
