An Empirical Analysis of Constructing Non.restrictive NPModifiers to Express Semantic RelationsHua Cheng and  Chr i s  Me l l i shD iv i s ion  of In fo rmat ics ,  Un ivers i ty  of  Ed inburgh80 South  Br idge,  Ed inburgh  EH1 1HN,  UKhuac, chr ism @ dai.
ed.
ac.
ukAbst rac tIt is not a rare phenomenon for human written textto use non-restrictive NP modifiers to express es-sential pieces of information or support the situa-tion presented in the main proposition containingthe NP, for example, "Private Eye, which couldn'tafford the libel payment, had been threatened withclosure."
(from Wall Street Journal) Yet no previ-ous research in NLG investigates this in detail.
Thispaper describes corpus analysis and a psycholinguis-tic experiment regarding the acceptability of usingnon-restrictive NP modifiers to express emantic re-lations that might normally be signalled by 'because'and 'then'.
The experiment tests several relevantfactors and enables us to accept or reject a numberof hypotheses.
The results are incorporated into anNLG system based on a Genetic Algorithm.1 In t roduct ionTo produce natural language text, an NLG systemmust be able to choose among possible paraphrasesone that satisfies the highest number of constraintsin a certain context.
Paraphrases can use variousconstructions, for example, using nominalisation i -stead of a clause for event representation.
We areparticularly interested in the use of non-restrictive(NR) modifiers within a referring expression to ex-press certain semantic relationQ other than object-attribute elaboration (in the sense defined in (Mannand Thompson, 1987)), for instance, causal rela-tions, which are normally expressed by separateclauses connected by cue phrases (Knott, 1996) suchas 'because '.
"A non-restrictive component gives additional in-formation to a head that has already been viewedas unique or as a member of a class that has beenindependently identified,-mud therefoee is not' essml;tial for the identification of the head" (Quirk et al,1985).
This definition can be extended to accountfor modifiers of not only definite referring expres-sions, but also definite and indefinite NPs of var-ious types.
In this paper, an NR modifier refersto any NP modifying component that is not essen-tial for identifying the object denoted by the head,including all modifiers of an NP that does not in-tend to identify (e.g.
indefinite referring expressionsand predicative phrases) (Kronfeld, 1990).
Our dis-cussion focuses on definite referring expressions in-cluding proper-names because of the dominance ofsuch examples in our corpus.
However, we wouldexpect no difficulty in applying our observation toother types of NPs.The semantic roles of NR modifiers, in particularNR clauses, are mentioned in many grammar andlinguistics books.
Quirk et al (1985) point out thatan NR clause in a referring expression is usually neu-tral in its semantic role (i.e.
it provides descriptiveinformation about its head), but sometimes it cancontribute to the semantics of the main clause ina variety of ways.
They summarise three types ofsemantic relations that can be expressed by an NRclause (examples are given in Figure 1):?
Causal, where the situation in the main clauseis caused by that in the NR clause, e.g.
(la).?
Temporal, where the two clauses form a timesequence, e.g.
(lb).?
Circumstantial, where the NR clause sets a tem-poral or spatial framework for interpreting themain clause, e.g.
(lc).Halliday (1985) mentions that a subordinateclause can elaborate a part of its primary clausethrough restating, clarifying, refining or adding a de-scriptive attribute or comment (see (2) of Figure 1).Halliday's notion of elaboration is much more gen-eral than that in other coherence theories like RST(Maim "andThompson; t987), and  :the rdat ion ex-pressed in (2) would not be treated as elaborationin most NLG systems.Similar phenomena were observed from the MUSEcorpus 2, a corpus of museum exhibit labels, whichl kVe are concerned with semant ic  ( informational) relationsin this paper?
Argumentat ive {intentional) relations are be-yond the scope of this paper.2This corpus is collected and annotated for the GNOMEproject (Poesio, 2000), which aims at developing eneral al-gor i thms for generat ing nominal expressions.108(1) a.b.C.He sent ahead the se,yeant, who was the most  exper ienced scout in the company.In 1960 he came to ,London4 .:wh.are.
:he :haa~lived ?
ever  ~in~ze.The boy, who had his satchel  trail ing behind him, ran past.
(2) Inflation, which was necessary  fo r  the system,  became also "lethal.
(3) In spite of his French name, Martin Carlin was born in Germany and emigrated to Paris to becomean ebeniste.Figure 1: -Examples for NR modifiers .contributing.
to the semantics of the main clauses?
_ .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
?
~ ' .
,  .
.
.
.
.
.
_- -describe museum objects on display.
For example,in (3) of Figure 1, the modifier French is not foridentifying the name, but for establishing a conces-sion relation between the main proposition and thesubordinate phrase to increase the reader's positiveregard for where Martin Carlin was born.For the convenience of discussion, we define someterminology to be used throughout the paper:An NR construction/sentence : a sentence that hasa main clause and a subordinate NR modifierattached to one of its NPs (e.g.
(4b) of Fig-ure 2).A hypotactic onstruction/sentence : a sentencethat has a main clause and a dependent clause,connected by a cue phrase.
This is a commonway of expressing semantic relations such ascausality (e.g.
(4a) of Figure 2).
In this syn-tactic category, we single out a subclass of sen-tences according to one possible semantic on-nection between the two clauses.
It is definedbelow.An elaboration realisation : a type of hypotacticconstruction where one clause elaborates the se-mantics of the other.
We take cue phrases "asfor" or "what is more" to signal elaboration re-lations 3.Previous research in NLG mainly focuses on us-ing NR constructions to realise elaboration relationsbut not other semantic relations (e.g.
(Scott andde Souza, 1990) and (Hovy, 1993)).
The NR modi-tier usually adds a descriptive attribute to the objectdenoted by the head.The linguistic research suggests for an NLG sys-tem the possibility to express certain semantic rela-cue phrases in most cases, and therefore could avoidusing cues too heavily., This could be a better re-alisation under certain circumstances.
Secondly, anNR construction enables a wider range of relations(especially those that are preferred to be expressedimplicitly) to be selected for text structuring becausethe corresponding syntactic option is available.To understand how to enable an NLG system togenerate such modifiers, we are faced with two ques-tions, which are not answered by linguistic research:1.
Can this type of modifier be identified by humansubjects, i.e.
can humans tell the difference be-tween different NP modifier uses?2.
Under what circumstances can an NR construc-tion be used in substitution of a hypotactic on-struction without changing the meaning dra-matically and how close are the meanings con-veyed by the two representations?An NLG system must come up with some solu-tions, simple or complex, to these two questions inorder to choose among paraphrases.
In this paper,we use cue phrases ms a signal of semantic relationsrather than try to identify the relations directly.We describe systematically controlled experimentsaimed at finding out the factors related to the gen-eration of this type of modifier in referring expres-sions.
The result is intended to be reliable enoughto be used by NLG systems in generating descriptivetext.2 Corpus  annotat ionTo answer the first question, we annotated theMUSE corpus, from which we have observed threetypes of modifier uses in an NP:tions through NR constructions, which is important .
.
.
.
Firstly,.
pro~i.ding .properties ?o .uniquely identifyin two aspects.
Firstly, an  NR construction gives--.--the objects or concepts denoted bythe-NP .Wi th -a more concise alternative realisation for a relation,where the relation is expressed implicitly rather thanexplicitly and usually more subtly.
It does not need3\Ve acknowledge that these cue phrases are controversialin their semantic interpretations, but not using cue phraseswould be even more ambiguous.
Besides, our experiment doesnot heavily depend on these cue phrases.out these modifiers, the NP can denote more thanone object/concept or sets of objects/concepts andis ambiguous in its interpretation, e.g.
those in (6a).Such modifiers usually appear in phrases headed bythe definite article 'the', which according to Loebner(1987) has the same meaning in all its uses, includ-ing in generic references and predicatives.
Modifiers109(4) a.b.
(5) a.b.Private Eye had been threatened with closure because it couldn't afford the libel payment.Private ~Ege;-',which.
couldn~t~.a~o.rd.thevlibel.
:paymen.t,.,: had:~been~threa~ned'with" closure.But P&G contends the new Cheer is a unique formula that also offers an ingredient hat preventscolors from fading.
And retailers are expected to embrace the product, because it will take up lessshelf space.And retailers are expected to embrace the product, which will take up less shelf  space.Figure 2: Examples for inferrabilityin other types of genericreferences, .g.
indefini:tes;also belong here.This type subsumes the modifiers normally con-sidered by the referring expression generation mod-ule of an NLG system for uniquely identifying thereferents (e.g.
(Dale, 1992)).Secondly, having no effect in constraining a uniqueor unambiguous concept out of the NP which is ei-ther already unique or not required to have a uniqueinterpretation, but being important o the situationpresented in the main proposition containing the NP.This type includes the modifiers described in theprevious section and many modifiers in indefinitepredicatives, e.g.
that in (6b).Thirdly, providing additional details about thereferents of the NP, which functions the same wayas the NP without these modifiers, e.g.
those in(6c).
The effect of such modifiers is usually localto the heads they describe rather than to the mainpropositions as a whole, which is the main differencebetween this and the second type of modifier.This type subsumes the modifiers normally gen-erated by an aggregation module, in particular oneusing embedding (e.g.
(Shaw and McKeown, 1997),(Cheng, 1998)).
(6) a. the decoration on this cabinet; the bestlooking food I ever sawb.
This is a mighty  empty  country.c.
the wide gilt bronze straps on the cof-fer fronts and sides; He lived in a five-room apartment in the Faubourg Saint-Anto ine .To find out whether the above distinctions makesense to human subjects, we designed an annotationscheme for modifiers in NPs, describing which ele-ments of an NP should be marked as a modifier andhow to mark the features for a modifier.
Apart fromother features, each modifier should be anno/ateclwith a pragmatic function feature (PRAGM), whichspecifies why a modifier is used it: an NP.
The pos-sible values for this feature are unique, int and attr,corresponding to the three types of modifier uses de-scribed above (we will use the value names to referto the different types of modifier in the rest of thispaper).
X.XlL was used as the markup language.We' had -two trained annotators mark the  NPmodifiers in the MUSE corpus according to theirunderstanding of the scheme.
The agreement be-tween them on the PRAGM feature by means of theKappa statistic (Caxletta, 1996) is .734, which meansthat the distinctions we are trying to make can beidentified by human subjects to some extent.
Themain ambiguity exists between int and attr modi-fiers.
There seems to be a gradual difference betweenthem and where to draw the line is a bit arbitrary.In the MUSE corpus annotated so far, 19% of 1078modifiers in all types of NPs axe identified as int.
Sothis is not a trivial phenomenon.3 An  exper imentWe reduced the size of the problem of when to usean NR construction by focusing on two relations: acausal relation signalled by 'because' and a temporalrelation signalled by 'then'.
The reason for choosingthese relations is that the possibilities of expressingthem through NR constructions have already beenshown by linguists.
The two cue phrases are typicalfor the corresponding relations and can often substi-tute other cue phrases for the same relations.
In therest of this paper, we will still use the term causalor temporal relation, but what we actually mean isthe specific relation signalled by 'because' or 'then'.3.1 Independent  var iab les  and  hypothesesFrom the generation point of view, our question is:given two facts and the semantic relation betweenthem, what extra input do we need for making real-isation decisions?We collected examples of 'because' sentences fromthe MUSE corpus, and Wall .Street Journal sourcedata, and transfered them to NR sentences by hand.Comparing the two constructions, we found some~, .An~eresting..vaxiation.:.
_Eor.example,:compaxing thesentences in Figure 2, we found intuitively that themeanings of (4a) and (4b) are much closer than thoseof (5a) and (5b).
In other words, (4b) can be usedin substitution of (4a), whereas (5b) cannot, so easily41n (Carletta, 1996), a value of K between .8 and I in-dicates good agreement; a value between .6 and .8 indicatessome agreement.110I ndependent  Var iables I\] Levels.Relation ...causal , temporalInferrability strong weakPosition initial finalOrder hypotactic vs. NR NR vs. hypotacticSubordination I nuc subordinate sat subordinateCued/NoCue I use cue not use cueTable 1: Independent variables and their valuessubstitute (5a).
A simiiar pa~ttern can be foun(i in anumber of other collected sentences.We claim that it is the degree ofinferrability of therelation between the semantics expressed throughthe two clauses that makes the difference.
We definethe inferrability of a causal/temporal relation as:Given two separate \]acts, the likeli-hood of human subjects inferring from theirworld knowledge that a causal/temporalconnection between the \]acts might plausi-bly exist.In examples (4) and (5), the fact that Private Eyecannot afford the libel payment is very likely to di-rectly cause the closure threaten, whereas a prod-uct occupying less space is not usually a cause ofit being accepted by retailers according to commonsense.
Therefore, the two realisations in (4) can beused in substitution of one another whereas those in(5) cannot.In\]errability is dynamic and user dependent.Given two facts, people with different backgroundknowledge can infer the relation between them withdifferent ease.
If a relation is easily recognisableaccording to general world knowledge, we say thatthe inferrability of the relation is globally strong,in which case a hypotactic and an NR constructioncan express the relation almost equally well (if notconsidering rhetorical effect).
Context can also con-tribute to the inferrability of a relation.
A relationnot easily recognisable from world knowledge maybe identified by a reader with ease as the discourseproceeds.
In this case, we say that the inferrabil-ity of the relation is locally strong, where the twoconstructions can express the relation equally wellonly in a certain context.
In this paper, we mainlyconsider the global aspect of a relation and we willdescribe how we decided the value of inferrability inthe next section.In Table 1, we summarise the factors (indepen-dent variables) that might play a role in the close-ness judgement between the semantics of a hypotac-tie construction and an NR construction.
The levelsare possible values of these factors.
Besides Rela-tion and In\]errability.
Position gives the location ofthe NP that contains the NR modifier.
It can be thefirst (initial) or the last (final) phrase in a sentenceS;Order gives the order of presentation; a hypotacticsentence to be compared with an NR sentence or viceversa, which is used to balance the influence of cuephrases on human judgement; Subordination speci-fies whether the nucleus or the satellite is realisedas an NR clause6; and Cued/NoCue means using acue phrase in the NR clause or not, which is onlyapplicable to the temporal relation, for example,(7) The health-care services announced the spinoffplan last January, which was then revisedin May.Based on our observation of human written sen-tences, we have the following hypotheses:Hypothes is  !
For both causal and temporal rela-tions, the inferrability of the relation between the se-mantics of two \]acts contributes ignificantly to thesemantic similarities between a hypotactic onstruc-tion and an NR construction.In other words, if the in\]errability of the relationbetween the two facts is strong, the semantic rela-tion can be expressed similarly through an NR con-struction, otherwise, the similarity is significantly re-duced.Hypothes is  2 For the causal relation, the satellitesubordination bears significantly higher similarity mmeaning to the hypotactic onstruction than the nu-cleus subordination does.For example, (4b) would be preferred to "PrivateEye, which had been threatened with closure, couldn'tafford the libel payment.
"Hypothes is  3 For the temporal relation, both theposition of subordination and the use of an appro-priate cue phrase in the NR clause make a signifi-cant difference to the semantic similarities between?
a hypotactic and an NR construction.
-This hypothesis prefers Example (7) to the reali-sation that does not have 'then'.5|n our implementation, we restrict ourselves to sentenceswith two NPs.aWe assume that in the causal relation, the clause bearing'because'is always the satellite.
Since the temporal relationis a multinuclear relation, this factor does not apply.111Dependent  VariablesNaturalness Similarity.exactly the same _~very similarmore similar than di~erentN/Anaturalfairly naturalmore different han similar so-sovery different fairly unnaturaltotally different unnaturalTable 2: Dependent variables and their values3.2 The  des ign of  the  exper imentTo assess a semantic similarity, which is thought tobe influenced by the independent variables, we usehuman subjects to judge the following two depen-dent variables:Naturalness : how fluent a sentence is on its own.Similarity : how similar the meanings of two sen-tences are without considering their natural-ness.The scales of the variables are selected such thatall values on the scale have natural verbal descrip-tions that could be grasped easily by our subjects(see Table 2).
Similar rating methods have beendescribed in (Jordan et al, 1993) to compare theoutput of a machine translation system with that ofexpert humans.Since we want to measure different groups ofsimilarity judgement based on different in\]errabil-ity, order or position levels, a between-groups de-sign (Hatch and Lazaraton, 1991) seems to be mostappropriate.
The design we used is illustrated inTable 3, where all possible combinations of the in-dependent variables are listed.
In the table, para-phrases gives the types of alternative sentences eachoriginal sentence has.
They should be scored by hu-man subjects for their similarities to the original sen-tences and their naturalness.We used a method similar to random selectionto create a stratified random sample.
The sampleshould contain 12 hypotactic sentences and 12 NRsentences: two for each combination of the causal re-lation and one for each combination of the temporalrelation.
These numbers were used to obtain as biga sample as possible which could still be judged byhuman subjects in a relatively short period of time(say less than 30 minutes).Using cue phrases as- the indicators o f ' the  se .....mantic relations between clauses, we collected allthe sentences containing 'because' or 'then' from theWall Street Journal source data.
and went througheach of them to pick out those that actually signalthe desired relations and can potentially have NR-realisations, i.e.
where there is a coreference r lationbetween the two NPs in the two clauses.
Sentencescontaining NR clauses signalled by ', which' or ',who ':~were~=coUected similarly<,<From: these~:seritcnces,we randomly selected one by category.
If it realisedan unused factor combination, it was kept in thesample.
This process was repeated until we collectedthe right number of test items which instantiated allcombinations of properties in Table 3.We asked two subjects to mark the 24 selecteditems with regard to their inferrability on a five-point scale: 5 for very likely, 4 for quite likely, 3for possibly, 2 for .even less possibly and 1 for un-known.-We~took values of 4 and 5 as Strong ahd"theothers as weak.
The subjects and an author agreedon 19 items, and the author's version was used forthe experiment.For the test items, we manually produced the cor-responding paraphrases, which were then put into aquestionnaire for human assessment of the two de-pendent variables for each paraphrase.3.3 Resu l tsWe had ten native English speakers evaluating tilesimilarity and naturalness on the sample.3.3.1 Simi lar i tySince the similarity data is ordinal data and departssignificantly from a theoretical normal distributionaccording to One-Sample Komogorov-Smirnov Test,we chose Mann Whitney U, which is a test for com-paring two groups on the basis of their ranks aboveand below the median.
The result is summarised inTable 4, with statistically significant items in bold-face (taking the conventional .05 p level).
The Zscores tell how many standard deviations above orbelow the mean an observation might be.
Meansgives the means of the similarity scores with respectto the values of the independent variables in Table 1.For the causal relation, there is a significant dif-ference between the means of similarities of the twogroups of different inferrabilities (P<.0005).
So wehave high confidence to accept part of Hypothesis 1.i.e.
the strong inferrability of the causal relation be-tween the semantics of two facts makes the semanticsimilarities between a hypotactic onstruction andan NR construction significantly higher than theweak case does.
In the strong case, tile mean ofsimilarity is 4.59, wilich is ,close to very similar.We treated order as a factor to be balanced anddid not expect it to have a significant effect, butit does (P=.008).
An NR paraphrase shows muchhigher similarity to its corresponding hypotactic sen-  ....tence (with a mean of 4.46) than the other wayround (with a mean of 3.83), but the difference be-comes smaller for the strong inferrability case.
Thiscould be because the causal relations expressed inNR sentences generally sound weaker than those inhypotactic sentences and the cue phrase has a biginfluence on the perceptibility of a relation.112Independent  Variables IRelation \[ Order  I inferrabflity I.Positioncausaltemporalstrong initialhypotactic vs. finalNR sentence weak initialfinalstrong initialNR sentence finalvs.
hypotactic weak initialfinalstrong initial~ypot, actic vs .
.
.
.
.
.
.
5finAlNR sentence weak initialfinalstrong initialNR sentence finalvs.
hypotactic weak initialfinalParaphrasesnuc & sat subordinationNR sentencenuc & sat subordinationNR sentencecausal &elaboration hypotactic?
cued & notcued NR sentencetemporal &elaboration hypotacticTable 3: A between-groupsRelat ion DependVar  \[ Factorscausal(160 cases)temporal(80 cases)SimilaritySimilarity(cued)designMeans  Z 2-tai led PInferrability 4.59/3.70 -4.1015 <.0005Order 4.46/3.83 -2.6400 .0083Position 4.11/4.18 -.2136 .8308Inferrability 4.88/5.00 -.1022 .9086Order 5.08/4.80 -1.1756 .2398Position 4.80/5.08 -2.0649 I .0389Table 4: The output of MannFor the temporal relation, position is the only sig-nificant factor (P=.0389).
So part of Hypothesis 3 isconfirmed, that is, the final position subordinationmakes an NR paraphrase significantly more similarto the corresponding hypotactic onstruction thanthe initial position does.We do not have enough evidence to accept theclaim that the inferrability of the temporal relationcontributes ignificantly to the similarity judgement(as in Hypothesis 1).
However, when we calculatedthe similarity mean for the alternative sentences us-ing cue phrases, strong or weak in inferrability, wegot 4.94 (very similar).
Comparing this with that ofthe strong causal case using the Mann Whitney Utest, we get a significance l vel of 0.0294.
This meansthat we have strong confidence to believe that thesimilarity mean for the temporal relation if using acue phrase is significantly .
higher.
-than, that for thestrong causal relation.
Therefore, the temporal re-lation can always be realised by an NR constructionas long as an appropriate cue phrase is used in theNR clause.The assumption of normality is also not met bythe subset of the data related to Hypothesis 2 and 3(i.e.
the similarity scores for nucleus/satellite subor-Whitney U on the similarity datadination paraphrases and cued/nocue paraphrases).We used the Wilcoxon Matched-Pairs Signed-RanksTest because we were comparing pairs of para-phrases.
The result is given in Table 5.
We acceptthe hypothesis that the similarity means of nucleusand satellite subordination are significantly differentin the initial position (Hypothesis 2).
This confirmsthe linguistic observation that information of greaterimportance should be presented in a main positionrather than a subordinate position.
We can also ac-cept the hypothesis that for the temporal relation,using cue phrases in NR clauses can significantly im-prove the similarity score of the NR construction(Hypothesis 3).3.3.2 Natura lness~,?e -used the Mann Whitney U test on naturalnesswith regards to order, inferrability and position, andfound no significant connection.
Figure 3 shows thedistribution of naturalness assessment of the para-phrases for the causal and temporal relation respec-tively.
The majority of the NR constructions arenatural or fairly natural, which suggests that theycould be good alternative realisations.113causaltemporalD..Paired Var iab les~ Means \] Z value \] 2-tail Sig \]ua7evaa -3.o2 .oo3Relation \[Table 5: The output of the Wilcoxon Matched-Pairs Signed-Ranks Test because  to NR clause~NR clause to because6050-?
)O0..60-50- thee  to NR clause~NR clause to thenFigure 3: The naturalness of the causal paraphrases (left) and the temporal paraphrases (right)3.3.3 SummaryWe briefly summarise the heuristics drawn from theexperiment for expressing the causal and temporalrelations with an NR construction.
This is an ac-ceptable realisation in the following circumstances:e the causal relation holds between two facts andthe inferrability of the relation is strong, inwhich case satellite subordination should beused; or?
the temporal relation holds between two facts,in which case a final position subordination andan appropriate cue phrase, like 'then', should beused in the NR clause.We also found that an NR construction can ex-press the causal/temporal relation and the object-attribute elaboration relation at the same time, ir-respective of the inferrability of the relation.
Gen-erally speaking, a semantic relation expressed by anNR construction sounds weaker than a hypotacticrealisation with a cue phrase.
Therefore, if a rela-tion is to be emphasised, NR constructions shouldnot be used.4 Imp lement ing  the  resu l t s  in  aOA-based  text  p lannerint-modifiers have a mixed character, i.e.
like attr-modifiers they are not essential for identifying thereferents, but like unique-modifiers they are not op-tional.
Because of their role in supporting the se-mantics of the main propositions, the selection ofint-modifiers hould be a part of the text planningprocess, where a text structure is constructed to ful-fill the overall goals for producing the text.
How-ever, compared with unique-modifiers, int-modifiersare less essential for an NP and they can only beadded if there are available syntactic slots.Since embedding deals with attr-modifiers at botha content selection and an abstract realisation level,it could coordinate the addition of int-modifiers.Therefore, the text planner could consult the embed-ding module as to whether a property can be realisedas an NP modifier, under the constraints from theNP type and the unique-modifiers that are alreadythere.
In other words, the text planner chooses factsto satisfy certain goals and the embedding processdecides if the facts can be realised as NP modifiersin an abstract sense.We need a generation architecture that allows acertain degree of interaction between text planning,referring expression generation and embedding.
Sowe chose the Genetic Algorithm based text plannerdescribed in (Mellish et el., 1998).
Their task is,given a set of "facts and-relations between facts, 'toproduce a legal RST tree using all the facts and somerelations.
Tile text planning is basically a two stepprocess.
Firstly sequences of facts are generated byapplying GA operators, and secondly the rhetoricalstructure trees built from these sequences are evalu-ated and the good sequences are kept for producingbetter offspring.114We extended the text planner by adding a GA op-erator called embedding mutation, .which ~andomlyselects two items mentioning a common entity froma sequence and assumes an embedding on them.
Em-beddings are evaluated together with the other prop-erties an RST tree has.
In this way, embedding isperformed uring text planning.
The ultimate scoreof a tree is the sum of positive and negative scoresfor all the good and bad properties it bears.
Sincegood embeddings are scored higher, they are kept inthe sequences for producing,better offspring and.
arevery likely to be included in the final output.We incorporated the results from the experimentinto the GA planner by using them as preferencesfor evaluating RST trees.
We treated inferrabilityas an input to the system.
If a good embedding canbe formed from two facts connected by an RST re-lation (i.e.
either of the two cases in Section 3.3.3is satisfied and the required syntactic slot is free),the embedding is scored higher than the hypotacticrealisation.
However, this emphasis on embeddingmight not be appropriate.
In a real application en-vironment, other communicative intentions houldbe incorporated to balance the scoring for differ-ent realisations.
And generally, inferrability has tobe implemented based on limited domain-dependentknowledge and user configuration.5 Conc lus ion  and  fu ture  workThis paper investigates the use of NR modifiers inreferring expressions to express certain semantic re-lations.
This is a commonly used strategy by humanauthors, which has not been explored by an NLGsystem before.
Our experiment shows that when theconditions for inferrability etc.
are satisfied, certainrelations can be expressed through an NR construc-tion as well as a normally used hypotactic onstruc-tion with little difference in semantics.
This facili-tates for an NLG system a way of expressing thesesemantic relations more concisely and subtly whichcould not be achieved by other means.Our experiment is restricted in many ways.
Onepossible xtension is to use more cue phrases to covera wider range of cases for each semantic relation.
Inreality, the application domain should decide whichrelations need to be tested.Re ferencesJean Carletta.
1996.
Assessing agreement on classi-fication tasks: the kappa statistic,.
ComputationalLinguistics, 22(2):249-254.Hua Cheng.
1998.
Embedding new information intoreferring expressions.
In Proceedings of COLING-A CL '98, pages 1478-1480, Montreal, Canada.Robert Dale.
1992.
Generating Referring Expres-sions: Constructing Descriptions in a Domain ofObjects and Processes.
The MIT Press.M.A.K.
Halliday.
1985.
An Introduction to Func-tianal- Grammar.
Edward..,&rnold (.PUblishers)Ltd., London, UK.Evelyn Hatch and Anne Lazaraton.
1991.
The Re-search Manual: Design and Statistics for AppliedLinguistics.
Newbury House Publishers.Eduard Hovy.
1993.
Automated iscourse genera-tion using discourse structure relations.
ArtificialIntelligence 63, Special Issue on Natural LanguageProcessing, 1.: ~Pamela: Jordan,:~:~Bonnie: Dorr, _and John Benoit...... 1993: A first-pass approach for evaluating ma-chine translation systems.
Machine Translation,8(1-2):49-58.Alistair Knott.
1996.
A Data-Driven Methodol-ogy for Motivating a Set of..Coherence Relations.Ph.D.
thesis, Department ofArtificial Intelligence,University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh.Amichai Kronfeld.
1990.
Reference and Compu-tation.
Studies in Natural Language Processing.Cambridge University Press.Sebastian Loebner.
1987.
Definites.
Journal of Se-mantics, 4:279-306.William Mann and Sandra Thompson.
1987.Rhetorical structure theory: A theory of text or-ganization.
Technical Report ISI/RR-87-190, In-formation Sciences Institute, University of South-ern California.Chris Mellish, Alistair Knott, Jon Oberlander,and Mick O'Donnell.
1998.
Experiments usingstochastic search for text planning.
In Proceed-ings of the 9th International Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation, Ontario, Canada.Massimo Poesio.
2000.
Annotating a corpus to de-velop and evaluate discourse ntity realization al-gorithms: Issues and preliminary results.
In Pro-ceedings of LREC, Athens, May.Randolph Quirk, Sidney Greenbaum, GeoffreyLeech, and Jan Svartvik.
1985.
A Grammar ofContemporary English.
Longman Group Ltd.Donia Scott and Clarisse Sieckenius de Souza.
1990.Getting the message across in rst-based text gen-eration.
In R. Dale, C. Mellish, and M. Zock, edi-tors, Current Research in Natural Language Gen-eration, pages 47-73.
Academic Press.James Shaw and Kathleen McKeown.
1997.
An ar-chitecture for aggregation i  text generation.
InProceedings of the Fifteenth International JointConference on Artificial Intelligence, Poster Ses-sion, Japan.115
