Sinica Treebank:Design Criteria, Annotation Guidelines, and On-line InterfaceChu-Ren Huang t, Feng-Yi Chen 2, Keh-Jiann Chen 2, Zhao-ming Gao s, &Kuang-Yu Chen 2churen(a3,sinica.edu.tw, aoole(~jis.sinica.edu.tw, kchen(~,iis.sinica.edu.tw,zmgao@ccms.ntu.edu.tw, sasami@iis.sinica.edu.tw=Institute ofLinguistics, Academia Siniea, Taipei, Taiwan2Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan3Dept.
of Foreign Languages & Literatures, National Taiwan University, Taipei, TaiwanAbstractThis paper describes the designcriteria and annotation guidelines ofSinica Treebank.
The three designcriteria are: Maximal Resource Sharing,Minimal Structural Complexity, andOptimal Semantic Information.
One ofthe important design decisionsfollowing these criteria is the encodingof thematic role information.
An on-lineinterface facilitating empirical studies ofChinese phrase structure is alsodescribed.1.
IntroductionThe Penn Treebank (Marcus et al1993) initiated a new paradigm incorpus-based research.
The English.Penn Treebank has enabled andmotivated corpus and computationallinguistic research based on informationextractable from structurally annotatedcorpora.
Recently, the research hasfocused on the following two issues:first, when and how can a structurallyannotated corpus of language X bebuilt?Second, what information should orcan be annotated?
A good sample ofissues in these two directions can befound in the papers collected in Abeille(1999).The construction of the SinicaTreebank deals with both issues.
First, itis one of the first structurally annotatedcorpora in Mandarin Chinese.
Second,as a design feature, the Sinica Treebankannotation includes thematic roleinformation in addition to syntacticcategories.
In this paper, we will discussthe design criteria and annotationguidelines of the Sinica Treebank.
Wewill also give a preliminary researchresult based on the Sinica Treebank.2.
Design Cr i te r iaThere are three important designcriteria for the Sinica Treebank:maximal resource sharing, minimalstructural complexity, and optimalsemantic information.First, to achieve maximal resourcesharing, the construction of the SinicaTreebank is bootstrapped from existing29Chinese computational linguisticresources.
The textual material isextracted from the tagged Sinica Corpus(hRp:l/www.sinica.edu.tw/ftms-bin/kiwi.sh, Chen et al 1996).
In otherwords, the tasks and issues involvingtokenization / word segmentation andcategory assignment are previouslyresolved.
It is worth noting that thesegmentation and tagging of SinicaCorpus have undergone vigorouspost-editing.
Hence the precision ofcategory-assignment is much higherthan with an automatically taggedcorpora.
In addition, since the sameresearch team carried out the tagging ofSinica Corpus and annotation of SinicaTreebank, consistency of theinterpretation of texts and tags areensured.
For structure-assigument, anautomatic parser (Chen 1996) is appliedbefore human post-editing.Second) the criterion of minimalstructural complexity is motivated toensure that the assigned structuralinformation can be shared regardless ofusers' theoretical presupposition.
It isobserved that theory-internalmotivations often require abstractintermediate phrasal levels (such as invarious versions of the X-bar theory).Other theories may also call for anabstract covert phrasal category (such asINFL in the GB theory for Chinese).
Ineither case, although the phrasalcategories are well-motivated within thetheory, their significance cannot bemaintained in the context of othertheoretical frameworks.
Since a primarygoal of annotated corpora is to serve asthe empirical base of linguisticinvestigations, it is desirable to annotatestructure divisions that are the mostcommonly shared among theories.
Wecame to the conclusion that the minimalbasic level structures are the ones thatare shared by all theories.
Thus ourannotation is designed to achieveminimal structural complexity.
Allabstract phrasal levels are eliminatedand only canonical phrasal categoriesare marked.Third) a critical issue involvingTreebank construction as well astheories of NLP is how much semanticinformation, if any, should beincorporated.
The original PennTreebank took a fairly straightforwardsyntactic approach.
A purely semanticapproach, though tempting in terms oftheoretical and practical considerations,has never been attempted yet.
A thirdapproach is to annotate partial semanticinformation, especially those pertainingto argument-relations.
This is anapproach shared by us and the PragueDependency Treebank (e.g.
Bohmovaand Hajikova 1999).
In this approach,the thematic relation between a predicateand an argument is marked in addition togrammatical category.
Note that thepredicate-argument relation is usuallygrammatically instantiated and generallyconsidered to be the semantic relationthat interacts most closely with syntacticbehavior.
This allows optimal semantic30information to be encoded without goingtoo beyond the partially automaticprocess of argument identification.3.
Annotation Guidelines I:Category and HierarchyThe basic structure of a tree in atreebank is a hierarchy of nodes withcategorical denotation.
As in anystandard phrase structure grammar, thelexieal (i.e.
terrninal) symbols aredefined.by the lexicon (CKIP 1992).And following the recent lexicon-drivenand information=based trends inlinguistic theory, linguistic informationwill be projected from encoded lexicalinformation.
Please refer to CKIP (1993)for the definition of lexieal categoriesthat we followed.
We will give belowthe inventory of the restricted set ofphrasal categories used and theirinterpretation.
This set defines thedomain of expressed syntacticinformation (instead of projected orinherited information).
Readers can alsoconsult Chen et al's (2000) generaldescription of how the Siniea Treebankis constructed for a more complete list oftags as well as explanation i Chinese.3.1.
Defining Phrasal CategoriesThere are only 6 non-terminalphrasal categories annotated in theSinica Treebank.
(1) Phrasal Categories1.
S: An S is a complete tree headed by apredicate (i.e.
S is the start symbol).2.VP: A VP is a phrase headed by apredicate.
However, it lacks asubject and cannot function alone.3.
NP: An NP is beaded by an N.4.GP: A GP is a phrase headed bylocational noun or locational adjunct.Since the thematic role is oftendetermined by the governingpredicate and not encoded locally;nominal phrases are given a tentativerole of DUMMY so that it caninherit he correct role from the mainpredicate.5.
PP: A PP is headed by a preposition.The thematic role of its argument isinherited from the mother, hence itsargument is marked with aDUMMY.6.
XP: A XP is a conjunctive phrase thatis headed by a conjunction.
Itssyntactic head is the conjunction.However, since the actual categorydepends on the interactiveinheritance from possiblynon-identical conjoined elements, Xin XP stands for an under-specifiedcategory.3.2.
Defining Inheritance RelationsFollowing unification-basedgrammatical theories, categoricalassignments in Sinica Treebank are bothlexicon-driven and head-driven.
Inprinciple, all grammatical information islexically encoded.
Structurally headsindicate the direction of informationinheritance and define possiblepredicate-argument relations.
However,since the notion 'head' can have several31different linguistic definitions, weattempt to allow at least the discrepancybetween syntactic and semantic heads.In Sinica Treebank, three different kindsof grammatical heads are annotated.
(2) Heads1.Head: indicates a grammatical head inan endocentrie phrasal category.Unless a different semantic head isexplicitly marked, a Head marks acategory that serves simultaneously asthe syntactic and semantic heads of theconstruction.2.head: indicates a semantic head whichdoes not simultaneously function as asyntactic head.
For instance inconstructions involvinggrammatiealized 'particles,' such as inthe 'VP-de' construction, thegrammatical head ('de' in this case)does not carry any semanticinformation.
In these cases, the headmarks the semantic head ('VP" in thiscase) to indicate the flow of contentinformation.3.
DUMMY: indicates the semantichead(s) whose categorical or thematicidentity cannot be locally determined.The two most likely scenariosinvolving DUMMY are (a) in acoordination construction, where thehead category depends on the sum ofall conjuncts.
And (b) in a non-NPargument phrase, such as PP, wherethe semantic head carries a thematicrole assigned not by the immediategoverning syntactic head ("P" in thiscase), but by a higher predicate.
Inthese cases, DUMMY allows a parserto determine the correct categorical /thematic relation later, whilemaintaining identical local structures.3.3.
Beyond Simple InheritanceWhen simple inheritance fails, thefollowing principles derived from ourdesign criteria serve to predict thestructural assignments of a phrasalcategory: default inheritance, sisters only,and left most.3.3.1.
Default InheritanceThis principle deals primarily andmost effectively with coordinations andconjunctions.
The theoretical motivationof this account follows Sag et al's (1985)proposal.
In essence, the category of aconjunctive construction must beinherited from its semantic heads.However, since conjunctions are notrestricted to same categories, languagesmust have principled ways to determinethe categorical identity when differentsemantic heads carry differentinformation.First, in the trivial case when allhead daughters are of the same category,the mother will inherit hat category.Second, when the different headdaughters are an elaboration of the samebasic category (e.g.
both Nd and Ne areelaboration of N), then the basiccategory is the default inheritancecategory for the mother.
This can beillustrated by (3).32(3) \[\[\[da4\]VH1 l\[er2\]Caa \[yuan2\]VH13\]\]VPbigThird,"mechanismscategoricaland roundwhen other inheritancefail to provide a clearchoice, the defaultinheritance is activated.
There are twodefault hierarchies.
The first one dealswith when the head daughters are alllexical categories (4a), and the secondone deals with when they are all phrasalcategories (4b).
If there is a disparitybetween lexical and phrasal categories,then a lexical category will be expandedto a phrasal category first.
(4)Default Inheritance Hierarchy forCategoriesa) Lexical Categories: V > N > P > Ngb) Phrasal Categories: S> VP> NP>PP> GPWhen phrasal conjuncts are involved, Sis the privileged category since it is thestart symbol of the grammar.
VP comesnext since its structural composition isidentical to that of S. If the structureinvolved is not a predicate (i.e.
head of asentence), then it must be a role.
Forargument roles, NP's are moreprivileged than PP's, and PP's are moreprivileged than GP's.
(5) is an instanceof the application of this defaulthierarchy.
(5) \[\[da41iang4\]Neqa \[ r2\]Caa\[feng l sheng4\]VH11 \]V\]VPbig-quantity andbountiful"bountiful and of big quantity"When lexical conjuncts are involved, thesame principle is used.
The priority isgiven to the predicate head of thesentence.
Among possible argumentroles, the nominal category is the default.An illustrative xample can be found in(6).
(6) \[\[wei4lan2 de tianlkongl\]NP\[yu3\]Caa\[zhul qun2biao l han4\]S\]Saqua-blue DE skyand people ferocious'That the sky being aqua blue andthat he people being ferocious...'3.3.2 Sisters OnlyFollowing most current linguistictheory, argument roles and adjunctcomplements must be sisters of a lexiealhead.
However, driven by our designcriteria of minimal structural complexity,no same level iteration is allowed.
Thusthese arguments and adjuncts can belocated by the straightforward definitionof sisterhood: that they share the samemother-daughter r lation with the head.The result is a flat structure.33.3 Left FirstThis principle is designed toaccount for possible internal structurewhen there are more than two sisters-without having to add on hierarchicalcomplexity.
Hence, the defaultinterpretation of internal structure ofmultiple sisters is that the internalassociation starts from leR to right.334.
Annotation Guidelines II:Structural Annotation ofThematic InformationA thematic relation contains acompact bundle of syntactic andsemantic information.
Althoughthematic relations are lexically encodedon a predicate, they can only beinstantiated when that information isprojected to phrasal arguments.
In otherwords, the only empirical evidence forthe existence of a thematic relation is arealized argument.
However, a realizedargument cannot by itself determine thethematic relation.
The exact nature ofthe relation must be determined basedon the lexical information fi'om thepredicate as well as checking of thecompatibility of that realized argument.Since structural information alonecannot determine thematic relations,prototypical structural annotation, suchas in the original Penn Treebank, doesnot include thematic roles since theycontain on-structural information.On the other hand, in theorieswhere lexical heads drive the structuralderivation / construction (e.g.
ICG andHPSG and LFG), thematic relations arecritical.
Hence, we decided to encoderealized thematic relations on eachphrasal argument.
The list of  thematicrelations encoded on the head predicateis consulted whenever a phrasalargument is constructed, and acontextually appropriate relationsanctioned by the lexical information isencoded.
It is worth noting that in ouraccount., we not only mark the thematicrelations of a verbal predicate, but wealso mark the thematic relationsgoverned by a deverbal noun, amongothers.
Also note that an argument of apreposition is marked as a placeholderDUMMY.
This is because a prepositiononly governs an argument syntactically,while its thematic relation is determinedby a higher verb.
(7) Thematic Roles: Classification andInventory34THEMATIC ROLESI OUMMY III '~ '  Ie~edeneer Ioe~onI ?
*"~'*" t *o.v,~\[ be.erect ~ *errnlemr~\[ ?~mdi~m conjunction\[ e~eluaem negae~\[ exrJudon incl~on\[ f l~*cy  -{ impera~\[ quamiler quamiol\[ s~ndardI ~ deg~eI dei~$ ma.~0nre~.dz uncondJllonI hylxnl'~s: oondusionI wl '~u~f con~rdonI a'uDidanoe puq)oseI l-I I PR~?
''~'?N I I I "?UN Io8,o~ I -L - - - t .oM,~T,o .
I  III OtJMMY \[5.
Current  Status of  the SinicaTreebank and On- l ineInterfaceFollowing the above criteria andprinciples, we have already f inishedSinica Treebank 1.0.
It containsannotations of 38,725 Chinese structuraltrees containing 239,532 words.
Itcovers ubject areas that include politics,traveling, sports, finance, society, etc.This version of the Sinica Treebank willbe released in the near future as soon asthe licensing documents are cleared bythe legal dep~,ent  of  Academia Sinica.A small subset of  it (1,000 sentences) isalready available for researchers todownload from the websitehttp ://godel.i is.sinica, edu.
tw/CKIP/treeslOOO.htm.
A searchable interface isalso being developed and tested forresearchers o that they can directlyaccess the complete treebankinformation.As an annotated corpus, one of themost important roles that a treebank canplay is that it can serve as a shared35source of data for linguistic, especiallysyntactic studies.
Following the exampleof the successful Sinica Corpus, we havedeveloped an on-line interface forextraction of grammatical informationfrom the Sinica Treebank.
Although theusers that we have in mind aretheoretical linguists who do notnecessarily have computationalbackground; we hope that non-linguistscan also benefit from the readyavailability of such grammaticalinformation.
And of course,computational linguists should be ableto use this interface for quick referencesbefore going into a more in-depth studyof the annotated corpus.Currently, the beta site allows usersspecify a variety of conditions to searchfor structurally annotated sentences.Conditions can be specified in terms ofkeywords, grammatical tags (lexical orphrasal), thematic relations, or anyboolean combination of the aboveelements.
The search result can bepresented aseither annotated structure orsimply the example sentences.
Simplystatistics, based on either straightforwardfrequency count or mutual information,are also available.
For linguisticallyinteresting information, such as theheads of various phrasal constructions, auser can simply look up the explicitlysyntactic Head or semantic head; aswell as DUMMY when it serves as ahead placeholder.
The website of thisinterface, as well as the general releaseof the Sinica Treebank 1.0, is scheduledto be announced at the second ACLworkshop on Chinese LanguageProcessing inOctober 2000.6.
ConclusionThe construction of the SinicaTreebank is only a first step towardsapplication of structurally annotatedcorpora.
Continuing expansion andcorrection will make this database aninvaluable resource for linguistic andcomputational studies of Chinese.ReferencesI.ABEILI..E, Anne.
1999.
Ed.Proceedings ofATALA Workshop -Treebanks.
Paris, June 18-19, 1999.Univ.
de Paris VII.2.BOHMOVA, Alla and Eva Hajicova.1999.
How Much of the UnderlyingSyntactic Structure Can be TaggedAutomatically?
In Abeille (Ed).1999.31-40.3.CHEN, Feng-Yi, Pi-Fang Tsai,Keh-Jiann Chen, and Chu-Ren Huang.2000.
Sinica Treebank.
\[in Chinese\]Computational Linguistics andChinese Language Processing.4.2.87-103.4.CHEN, Keh-Jiarm.
1996.
A Model forRobust Chinese Parser.
ComputationalLinguistics and Chinese LanguageProcessing.
1.1.183-204.5.CHEN, Keh-Jiann, Chu-Ren Huang.1996.
Information-based CaseGrammar: A Unification-basedFormalism for Parsing Chinese.
InJournal of Chinese LinguisticsMonograph Series No.
9.
Chu-RenHuang, Keh-Jiaun Chen, andBenjamin K. T'sou Eds.
Readings inChinese Natural Language Processing.23-45.
Berkeley: JCL.6.CHEN, Keh-Jiann, Chu-Ren Huang,Li-Ping Chang, Hui-Li Hsu.
1996.36Sinica Corpus: Design Methodologyfor Balanced Corpora.
Proceedings ofthe 11th Pacific Asia Conference onLanguage, Information, andComputation (PA CLIC I1).
SeoulKorea.
167-176.7.CHEN, Keh-Jiann and Shing-HuanLiu.
1992.
Word Identification forMandarin Chinese Sentences.Proceedings of COLING-92.101 - 105.8.CHEN, Keh- Jiann, Shing-Huan Liu,Li-Ping Chang, Yeh-Hao Chin.
1994.A Practical Tagger for ChineseCorpora."
Proceedings of R OCLINGV/I.
111-126.9.CHEN, Keh-Jiann, Chi-Ching Luo,Zhao-Ming Gao, Ming-Chung Chang,Feng-Yi Chen, and Chao-Ran Chert.1999.
The CKIP Chinese Treebank:Guidelines for Annotation.
In Abeille(Ed).
1999.85-96.I0.
CKIP (Chinese KnowledgeInformation Processing).
1993.
TheCategorical Analysis of Chinese.
CKIPTechnical Report 93-05.
Nankang:Academia Sinica.11.
HUANG, Chu-Ren, Keh-JiannChen, Feng-Yi Chen, and Li-Li Chang.1997.
Segmentation Standard forChinese Natural Language Processing.Computational Linguistics andChinese Language Processing.2.2.47-6212.
Lin, Fu-Wen.
1992.
SomeReflections on the Thematic System ofInformation-based Case Grammar(ICG).
CKIP Technical Report 92-01.Nankang: Academia Sinica.13.
Marcus, Miteh P., BeatriceSantorini, and M. A. Marcinkiewiicz.1993.
Building a Large AnnotatedCorpus of English: The Peen Treebank.Computational Linguistics.19.2.313-330.14.
SAG, Ivan, Gerald Gazdar, ThomasWasow, and Steven Weisler.
1985.Coordination and How to DistinguishCategories.
Natural Language andLinguistic Theories.
117-171.Appendix1.
Lexical Categories(1) NON-PREDCITIVE ADJVECTIVE: A(2) CONJUNCTION: C(3) ADVERB: D(4) INTERJECTION: I(5) NOUN: N(6) DETERMINATIVES: Ne(7) MEASURE WORD / CLASSIFIER:Nf(8) POSTPOSITION WORD: Ng(9) PRONOUN: Nh(10) PREPOSITION: P(11) PARTICLES: T(12) VERB: V2.
Sample Sentence and Treenage wanfi de nyuren baifa zhihoubian buzai lihui?
that hair-style DE woman white-hair afterthen never pay-attentionting qian tingting .FuR deqingcaocourtyard front slender-ly standing-erect DEgreen-grass'After her hair had turned white, thatcoiffured woman ever paid any moreattention tothe nicely standing green grassin the front courtyard.
"S(agent:NP(quantifier:DM:~lproperty:VP- ~j(head:VP(Head:VA4:~-)IHead:DE: ~)lHead:Nab:~A.
)ltime:GP(DUMMY:VP(Head:VI-I 11:~1 ~)1 Head:Ng:-~-~.
)\[firne:Dd:~l~ I time:Dd: ~"~'1 Head:VC2:J~ ~'\[goal:NP (property:VP ?
~(head:VP (location:NP(property:Neb:/~.lHead:Neda: ~,f)lHead:VH11: ;~ ,~ ~ 2Y_)\[Head:DE: ~)I  Head:Nab: ff ~))37
