Chinese-Japanese Cross Language Information Retrieval: A HanCharacter Based ApproachMd Maruf HASANComputational Linguistic LaboratoryNara Institute of Science and Technology8916-5, Takayama, Ikoma,Nara, 630-0101 Japanmaruf-h @is.alst-nara.ac.jpYuji MATSUMOTOComputationalLinguistic LaboratoryNam Institute of Science and Technology8916--5, Takayama, Ikoma,Nara, 630-0101 Japanmatsu @is.aist-nara.ac.jpAbsU'actIn this paper, we investigate cross languageinformation retrieval (CLIR) for Chineseand Japanese texts utilizing the Hancharacters - common ideographs used inwriting Chinese, Japanese and Korean (CJK)languages.
The Unicode encoding scheme,which encodes the superset of Hancharacters, is used as a common encodingplatform to deal with the mulfilingualcollection in a uniform manner.
We discussthe importance of Han character semanticsin document indexing and retrieval of theideographic languages.
We also analyse thebaseline results of the cross languageinformation retrieval using the common Hancharacters appeared in both Chinese andJapanese texts.Keywords: Cross Language InformationRetrieval, Multilingual InformationProcessing, Chinese, Japanese and Korean(CJK) LanguagesIntroductionAfter the opening of the Cross LanguageInformation Retrieval (CLIR) track in theTREC-6 conference (TREC-1998), severalreports have been published on cross languageinformation retrieval in European languages, andsometimes, European languages along with oneof the Asian languages (e.g., Chinese, Japaneseor Korean).
However, no report is found in crosslanguage IR that focuses on the Asian languagesexclusively.
In 1999, Pergamon published aspecial issue of the journal, InformationProcessing and Management focusing onInformation Retrieval with Asian Languages(Pergamon-1999).
Among the eight papersincluded in that special issue, only one paperaddressed CLIR (Kim et al, 1999).
Kim et alreported on nmltiple Asian language informationretrieval (English, Japanese and Korean CLIR)using mulfilingual dictionaries and machinetranslation techniques (to translate both queriesand documents).In TREC, intensive research efforts are made forthe European languages, for example, English,Gerrn~, French, Spanish, etc.
Historically, theselanguages share many similar linguisticproperties.
However, exclusive focus on Asianlanguages, for example, Chinese, Japanese andKorean (CJK) - which also share significantlysimilar linguistic properties, has not been given.Enormous amount of CJK information iscurrently on the Internet.
The combined growthrate of the CJK electronic information is alsopredicted to be growing at a faster ate.
Crosslanguage IR focusing on these Asian languagesis therefore inevitable.In this paper, we investigate the potential ofindexing the semantically correlated Hancharacters appear in both Chinese and Japanesedocuments and queries to facilitate a crosslanguage information retrieval.
Using Hancharacter oriented document and query vectors,within the framework of the vector spaceinformation retrieval, we then evaluate theeffectiveness of the cross language IR withrespect o their monolingual counterparts.
Weconclude with a discussion about furtherresearch possibilities and potentials of Hancharacter oriented cross language informationretrieval for the CJK languages.191 Related Research and MotivationSeveral approaches are investigated in CJK textindexing to address monolingual informationretrieval (MLIR) - for example, (1) indexingsingle ideographie character, (2) indexing n-gram I ideographic haracters and (3) indexingwords or phrases after segmentation andmorphological analysis.
Monolingual infor-mation retrieval (MLIR) of CJK languages isfurther complicated with the fact that CJK textsdo not contain word delimiters (e.g., a blankspace after each word in English) to separatewords.
From the un-delimited sequence ofcharacters, words must be exlIacted first (thisprocess is known as segmentation).
Forinflectional ideographic language like Japanese,morphological nalysis must ~so be performed.Sentences are segmented int,~ words with thehelp of a dictionary and using some machinelearning techniques.
Morphol0giccal nalysis alsoneeds intensive linguistic knowledge andcomputer processing.
Segmentation andmorphological nalysis are tedious tasks and theaccuracy of the automatic segmentation andmorphological analysis drastically vary indifferent domains.
The word based indexing ofCJK texts is therefore computationallyexpensive.
Segmentation mid morphologicalanalysis related issues of both Chinese andJapanese are intensively addressed elsewhere(Sproat et al, 1996; Matsumoto et al, 1997 andmany others).The n-gram (n >1) character based indexing iscomputationally expensive as well.
The numberof indexing terms (n-grams) ilacreases drasticallyas n increases.
Moreover, not all the n-grams aresemantically meaningful words; therefore,smoothing and filtering hcmristics must beemployed to extract linguistk~lly meaningful n-grams for effective retrieval of information.
SeeNie et al (1996, 1998, 1999), (;hen et al (1997),Fujii et al (1993), Kimet al 0999) for details.In contrast, indexing sinlgle characters isstraightforward and less demanding in terms ofboth space and time.
In single characterindexing, there is no need to (1) maintain ai In this paper, we use the terra, n-gram to refer to (n>1) cases.
When n =1, we rise the term, singlecharacter indexing.multilingual dictionary or thesaurus of words,(2) to extract word and morphemes, and (3) toemploy machine learning and smoothing toprune the less important n-grams or ambiguityresolution in word segmentation (Kwok, 1997;Ogawa et al, 1997; Lee et al, 1999; etc.
).Moreover, a CLIR system, based on Hancharacter semantics, incurs no translationoverhead for both queries and documents.
In asingle character based CUR approach for CJKlanguages, ome of the CLIR related problemsdiscussed in (Grefenstette, 1998) can also becircumvented.Comparison of experimental results inmonolingual IR using single character indexing,n-gram character indexing and (segmented)word indexing in Chinese information retrievalis reported in Nie et al (1996, 1998, 1999) andKwok (1997).
For the case of monolingualinformation retrieval (MLIR) task, incomparison to the single character basedindexing approach, n-gram based and wordbased approaches obtained better etrieval at thecost of the extra time and space complexity.Similar comparison and conclusion for Japaneseand Korean MLIR are made in Fujii et al (1993)and Lee et al (1999), respectively.Cross language information retrieval (CUR,Oard and Dorr, 1996) refers to the retrievalwhen the query and the document collection arein different languages.
Unlike MLIR, in crosslanguage information retrieval, a great deal ofefforts is allocated in maintaining themultilingual dictionary and thesaurus, andtranslating the queries and documents, and soon.
There are other approaches to CLIR wheretechniques like latent semantic indexing (LSI)are used to automatically establish associationsbetween queries and documents independent oflanguage differences (Rchder et al, 1998).Due to the special nature (ideographic, un-defimited, etc.)
of the CJK languages, the crosslanguage information retrieval of theselanguages is extremely complicated.
Probably,this is the reason why only a few reports areavailable so far in Cross Asian LanguageInformation Retrieval (CALIR).20Tan and Nagao (1995) used correlated Hancharacters to align Japanese-Chinese bilingualtexts.
According to them, the occurrence ofcommon Han characters (in Japanese andChinese language texts) sometimes is soprevalent that even a monolingual reader couldperform a partial alignment of the bilingualtexts.One of the authors of this paper is not a nativespeaker of Chinese or Japanese but has theintermediate l vel proficiency in both languagesnow.
However, before learning Japanese, basedon the familiar Han characters (their visualsimilarity and therefore, the semantic relation)appeared in the Japanese texts, the author couldroughly comprehend the theme of the articleswritten in Japanese.
This is due to the fact thatunlike Latin alphabets, Han characters capturesignificant semantic information in them.
Sincedocuraent retrieval is inherently a task ofsemantic distinction between queries anddocuments, Han character based CLIR approachcan therefore be justified.
It is worthy to mentionhere that the pronunciation of the Han charactersvaries significantly across the CJK languages,but the visual appearance of the Han charactersin written texts (across OK language) retainscertain level of similarity.As discussed above, we can make use of thenon-trivial semantic information encoded withinthe ideographic haracters to find associationsbetween queries and documents across thelanguages and perform cross languageinformation retrieval.
By doing so, we can avoidcompficated segmentation or morphologicalanalysis process.
At the same time, multilingualdictionary and thesaurus lookup, and query-documents translations can also becircumvented.In our research, we index single Han characters(common and/or semantically related) appearedin both Japanese and Chinese texts to model anew simplistic CLIR for Japanese and Chinesecross language information retrieval.
CJKlanguages use a significant number of common(or similar) Han characters in writing.
Althoughsome ambiguities 2 exist in the usage of Han2 Ambiguities also exist in word or phrase level.characters across the languages, there areobvious contextual and semantic associations inthe usage of Han characters in the written textsacross the CJK languages (Tan and Nagao,1995).2 Encoding scenarios of CJK languagesCharacter encoding schemes of CJK languageshave several variations (e.g., Chinese: GB andBIG-5, etc.
; Japanese: JIS, EUC, etc.)
3.
Thenumber of Han characters encoded under aparticular encoding scheme also varies.However, due to the continuous acceptance andpopularity of the Unlcode (Unicode-2000) bythe computer industry, we have a way toinvestigate these languages comprehensively.The Common CJK Ideograph section of theUnicode encoding scheme includes allcharacters encoded in each individual anguageand encoding scheme.
Unicode version 3.0assigned codes to 27,484 Han characters, asuperset of characters encoded in other popularstandards.Figure 1: Different ideogr~hs represent the sameconcept, swordHowever, Unicode encoding is not alinguistically based encoding scheme; it is ratheran initiative to cope with the variants of differentlocal standards.
A critical analysis of Unicodeand a proposal of Multicode can be found inMudawwar (1997).
Unicode standard avoidsduplicate encoding of the same character; forexample, the character 'a' is encoded only oncealthough it is being used in several westernlanguages.
However, for ideographic characters,such efforts failed to a certain extent due to thevariation of typeface used under differentsituations and cultures.
The characters in Figure1, although they represent the same word (swordin English), is given a unique code underUnicode encoding scheme to satisfy the round-3 A typical Internet search engine (like Yahoo)sometimes asks users to specify not only thelanguage but also the encoding scheme (e.g.,simplified (GB) or traditional Chinese (BIG-5)) for asingle language search.21trip criteria 4 , that is, to allow round-tripconversion between the source standard (in thiscase, JIS) and" the Unicode.
Ilae 27,484 Hancharacters encoded in Unicode, therefore,includes semantic redundancy in both single-language and multiple-language perspectives.In the unified CJK ideograph section, Unicodemaintains redundancy to accommodatetypographical or cultural con~,atibility becausethe design goal of Unicode i, mainly to attaincompatibility with the existitlg corporate andnational encoding standards.
In a Han characterbased CUR approach, such redundancy andmultiplicity must be identified and resolved toachieve semantic uniformity and association.Such multiplicity resolution esks, with compareto maintaining multifingual (Word) dictionaries,are less painstaking.
In our Him character basedCLIR, we use a table lookup mapping approachto resolve semantic ambiguities of the Hancharacters and associate the s,~mantically relatedideographs within and across CJK languages, asa preprocessing task.3 Comparative analysis ~of Japanese andChinese language for Han character based CURChinese text is written honlogeneously usingonly Han characters.
Th~e: are no worddelimiters and therefore, segmentation must beperformed to extract words :from the string ofHan characters.
Chinese is a non-inflectionallanguage and therefore morphological nalysis isnot essential.In contrast, Japanese text is ~tMtten usually as amixture of Hart character~, Hiragana andKatakana.
Katakana is usually used to write non-Japanese words (except those borrowed fromChinese).
Hiragana is mostly used to representthe inflectional pan of a word and to substitutecomplicated (and less comman) Han charactersin modern Japanese.
Japanese texts are alsowritten without word delimiters and therefore,must be segmented.
Prior ta any word basedindexing, due to the infl(~ctional nature ofJapanese, text must be morpllvlogieally analyzedand the root words should be indexed~, .
.B4 A detail description of the ~Inicode ideographiccharacter unification rules can l~e found in Unicode-2000, pp.
258-271.
(equivalent to the stemming in westernlanguages) to cope with the inflectionalvariations.Due to the historical evolution and culturaldifferences, Han charmer itself becomeambiguous across the CJK languages.
We willdiscuss the semantic irregularities of Hancharacters in Japanese and Chinese below withexamples.Han Characters: In Japanese, the ideographiccharacter-string, tJJ2-~ means postal stamp.
Theconstituent characters, if used independently inother contexts, represent "to cut" and "hand",respectively.
However, in Chinese, g l~represents postal stamp and the constituentcharacters represent "postal" and "ticket",respectively.
Interestingly, both in Japanese andin Chinese, the character string, g l~,represents post office.
However, majority of thepostal service related words, in both Chinese andJapanese, consist of the Han character, i!5 as acomponent.
Although there are someidiosyncrasies, there are significant regularitiesin the usage of Han characters across the CJKlanguages.
Like word sense disarnbiguation(WSD), Kanji Sense Disarnbiguation (KSD)within and across the CJK languages is aninteresting area of research by itself.
Lua (1995)reported an interesting neural network basedexperiment o predict the meaning of Hartcharacter based words using their constituentcharacters' emantics.For effective CLIR, we need to analyze theirregular Hart characters and work out relevantmapping algorithm to augment he query anddocument vectors.
A simplistic approach (withbinary weight) is illustrated in Table 1.
For thepartial co-occurrences of the characters like, i~J,~:- and mid, etc.
in a particular document or aquery requires adjustments of the document orthe query vector.
We are aware that such manualmodification is not feasible for a largeheterogeneous document collection.Dimensionality reduction techniques, fike LSI(Evans at al., 1998; Rehder et al 1998) or Hancharacter clustering are the potential solutions toautomatically discover associations among Hartcharacters.22Table 1: Enhancement of query or document vectorsto create semantic association (an example)Document or Query Vector Representation(partial)Han Characters appeared in a Japanese or aChinese docun~nt or a query:\[..~J.. ~.. j .
.
g..\]'Possible binary vectorsrepresenting a query ora document(before nhancement)Mapped binary vectorrepresenting a query ora document(after enhancemenO\[..1.. 1.. *.. *..\]'\[..*.. *.. 1.. 1..\]'etc.\[..1.. 1.. 1.. 1..1'Asterisk (*) represents 0 or 1.Katakana Strings: In Japanese, especially in thetechnological domain, Katakana ispredominantly used to transliterate foreignwords.
For example, in modem Japanese, thewords, "~--Ib and f f '~  / \[\] ~- - ,  etc.
(tooland technology, respectively) are very common.Their Han character equivalents are lEA and~,  etc., and they are similar to those used inChinese.
A Katakana to Kanji (Han character)mapping table is created to transfer thesemantics of Kat0_kana in the form of Hartcharacters (relative positions of the document orquery vector need to be adjusted) to help ourChinese-Japanese CLIR task.
In this purpose,the definition part of a Japanese monolingualdictionary is used to find the relevant Hartcharacters for a particular Katakana string.Manual correction is then conducted to retain themeaningful Han character(s).Proper Names: In Japanese, foreign propernames are consistently written in KaLakana.However, in Chinese, they are written in Hancharacters.
For a usable CLIR system forChinese and Japanese, a mapping table istherefore inevitable.
In our experiment, due tothe nature of the text collection, we manuallyedited the small number of proper names toestablish association.
We are aware that suchmanual approach is not feasible for large scaleCLIR task.
However, since proper namedetection and manipulation is itself a majorresearch issue for natural language processing,we will not address it here.Hiragana Strings: Continuous long strings ofHiragana need to be located and replaced s withthe respective Hart characters, and the documentand the query vectors must be adjustedaccordingly.
Shorter hiragana strings can beignored as stop word since such hiragana stringsare mostly functional words or inflectionalattributes.4 Vector Space Model: Western and Asianlanguage perspectiveThe most popular IR model, the Vector SpaceModel, uses vectors to represent documents andqueries.
Each element of a document or a queryvector represents the presence or absence of aparticular term (binary), or the weight (entropy,frequency, etc.).
Functional words areeliminated; stemming and other preprocessingare also done prior to the vectofizafion.
As aresult, syntactic information is lost.
The vectorsimply consists of an ordered list of terms, andtherefore, the contextual cues have alsodisappeared.
The document and the queryvectors are gross approximation of the originaldocument or query (Salton et al, 1983).
Invector space information retrieval, we sacrificesyntactic, contextual and other information forrepresentational nd computational simplicity.For western languages, sometimes phraseindexing is proposed to offset such losses and toachieve better etrieval quality.
In vector spacemodel, a terra usually refers to a word.
Forwestern languages, a document or a query vectorconstructed from the letters of the alphabetswould not yield any effective retrieval.However, representing CJK documents andquery in terms of Han character vectorizationyields reasonably effective retrieval.
This is dueto the fact that a Han character encodes non-trivial semantics information within itself, whichis crucial for information retrieval.
HanCharacter based document and queryrepresentation is therefore justified.
For CLIR,s In Japan, it is common that materials written foryoung people uses t-Iiragana extensively to bypasscomplex Han characters.23considering the inherent co~,lexity in queryand document translation, multilingualdictionary and thesaurus malnleaance, tc., Hancharacter based (both single clcaracter or n-gramcharacters) approaches under the vector spaceframework, despite of being a grossapproximation, provide significant semanticcues for effective retrieval ckle to the samereason.5 Experimental SetupWe collected the translated 'versions of theLewis Carroll's "Alice's A,Iventure in theWonderland" in Japanese and in Chinese.
Theoriginal Chinese version (in GB code) and theoriginal Japanese version (in S-JIS code) arethen converted into Unicode.
Preprocessing isalso conducted to correlate the proper names, toresolve the semantic multiplicky of coding andto associate the language spe~tific irregularities,etc.
as described in Section 2 aad 3.The mg system (a public domain indexingsystem from the New Zealantl Digital Libraryproject, Witten et al, 1999) is adapted to handleUnicode and used to index the Unicode files.
Weconsider each paragraph of th0 book as a singledocument.
There are 835 paragraphs in theoriginal book and the translated versions in bothJapanese and Chinese also preserve the totalnumber of paragraphs.
In this; way, we have acollection of 1670 paragraplhs (hereafter, werefer to each paragraph as a document of ourbilingual text collection) in lmth Chinese andJapanese.
We used the mg system to index thecollection based on TF.IDF weighting.
For aparticular query the mg system is used toretrieve documents in order of ~,elevance.We asked 2 native Japan~ who have anintermediate level understan,~ing of Chineselanguage and who are the fmtuent users of theInternet search engines, to folanulate 5 querieseach in natural Japanese.
Similarly, we alsoasked 2 native Chinese who have theintermediate l vel understanding of Japaneseand who are the frequent users of the lntemet, toformulate 5 queries each in Chinese.
Therefore,4 bilingual human subjects folanulated a total of20 queries in their respective native tongue (10queries in Chinese and 10 quq~ies in Japanese).The subjects were initially nDt told about thecross language issues involved in theexperimental process, that is, the subjectsformulated the queries as how they wouldusually do for monolingual informationretrieval.All the 4 subjects are familiar with the story ofthe Alice's Adventure in the Wonderland.However, we asked them to take a quick look atthe electronic version of the book in their ownlanguage to help them to formulate 5 differentqueries in their own native language.Table 2: Comparison of mono- and cross- languageinformation retrievalQueriesinChinese(total 10queriesfrom 2nativeChinesesubjects)QueriesinJapanese(total 10queriesfrom 2nativeJapanesesubjectsNumber of!Chinesedocumentsjudgedrelevant(a total of 10documentsare retrievedfor eachquery)Out of 100retrieved does3519Number ofJapanesedocumentsjudgedrelevant(a total of 10documentsare retrievedfor eachquery)Out of lOOretrieved doesCLIR toMLIRratio26 74 %30 63 %Documents are retrieved with the queries fromboth the Japanese and the Chinese versions ofthe book.
Top 10 documents in Chinese and top10 documents in Japanese language are then24retrieved for each query.
Each subject is thenpresented with the 20 extracted ocuments foreach of his/her own original query.
Therefore,for the total 5 queries forrnulated by a subject, atotal of 100 documents (50 documents in his/hermother tongue and 50 documents in the otherlanguage) are given back to each subject forevaluation.
Subjects are asked to evaluate thedocuments extracted in their native languagefirst and then similarly the documents extractedin the other language.As shown in Table 2, it can be concluded thatthe cross language information retrieval in thisexperimental framework performed about 63-74% as good as their monolingual counterparts.Cross language information retrieval ofEuropean languages, with the help ofmultilingual thesaurus enhancement reachesabout 75% performance of their monolingualcounterparts (Eichman et al, 1998).
Theeffectiveness of Han character based CLIR forCJK languages is therefore promising.
It isimportant to note here that in business, politicaland natural science domains, Han characters areprevalently correlated across Japanese andChinese documents.
Our approach shouldperform even better if applied in those domains.6 Further ResearchIn our experiment, we represent Chinese andJapanese documents and queries as weightedvectors of Han Characters.
Before thevectorisation, ecessary preprocessing is done tocope with the multiplicity of coding problem ofsern~tically similar ideographs and to cope withsome obvious language specific issues.
Same asthe monolingual vector space informationretrieval approach, we measured cosinesimilarity between a query and a document toretrieve relevant documents in order ofrelevance.
Similarity is measured for both cases;that is, (1) monolingual: the query and thedocument are in the same language, and (2)cross-language: the query and the document areof different languages.
The comparative resultshows that the effectiveness of cross languageinformation retrieval between Chinese andJapanese in this way is comparable to that ofother CLIR experiments conducted mainly withmultiple western languages with the help ofthesauri and machine translation techniques.One of the promising applications of thisapproach can be in identifying and aligningChinese and Japanese documents online.
Forexample, retrieving relevant news articlespublished in both languages from the Internet.
Itis understood that several mathematicaltechniques, like Han character clustering anddimensionality reduction techniques (Evans etal., 1998) can augment and automate the processof finding associations among the Hancharacters within and across the CJK languages.The vector space model is also flexible for theadjustment of weighting scheme.
Therefore, wecan flexibly augment he Han character basedquery vectors (a pseudo- query expansiontechniques) and document vectors (a pseudo-relevance feedback technique) for effectiveCLIR.
We left these parts as our immediatefuture work.As done with the MLIR, n-gram charactersbased indexing can also be experimented.However, due to the small document collectionand the number of queries we had, n-gram basedindexing suffers from data sparseness problem.We, therefore, left out the n-gram characterbased CUR evaluation until a huge collection ofdocuments and queries are ready.ConclusionIn this paper, we experimented on a smallcollection of homogeneous bilingual texts and asmall set of queries.
The result obtained supportsthe promising aspect of using Han characters forcross language information retrieval of CJKlanguages.
Such an approach has its ownadvantage since no translation of query ordocuments are needed.
In comparison tomaintaining multilingual dictionaries or thesauri,maintaining Han characters mapping table ismore effective because the mapping table needsnot to be updated so often.
Sophisticatedmathematical analysis of Han characters canbring a new dimension in retrieving cross Asianlanguage information.
Kanji SenseDisambiguation (KSD) techniques usingadvanced machine learning techniques can makethe proposed CLIR method more effective.
KSDis a long neglected area of research.Dimensionality reduction techniques, chistedng,independent component analysis (ICA) andother mathematical methods can be exploited to25enhance Han character based l)Xc, cessing of CJKlanguages.ReferencesChen, A., Jianzhang He, Liangjie Xu, Fredric C. Geyand Jason Meggs (1997).
Chinese Text RetrievalWithout Using a Dictionary.
In Proceeding of theConference on Research and Development inInformation Rertrieval, ACM $IGIR-97, pp.
42-49.Eichmann, D., M.E.
Ruiz and P. Srinivasan (1998).Cross-language Information Retrieval with theUMLS Metathesaurus.
In iFhroceeding of theConference on Research and Development inInformation Rertrieval, ACM SIGIR-98, pp.
72-80.Evans, D.A., S.K.
Handerson~ I.A.
Monarch, J.Pereiro, L. Delon, W.R. Her~h (1998).
MappingVocabularies Using Latent Semantics.
In GregoryGrefenstette Edited, Cross-Lcnguage InformationRetrieval, Kluwer Academic Publisher.Grefenstette, G. (1998) The Problem of Cross-Language Information ReU!eval.
In GregoryGrefenstette Edited, Cross-L~guage InformationRetrieval, Kluwer Academic Publisher, pp.
1-10.Fujfi, H. and W.B.
Croft (1991~).
A comparison ofIndexing for Japanese "I~xt Retrieval.
InProceeding of the ACM SIGIt\[-93, pp.
237-246.Kim T., Sire C.-M., Yuh S., Jung H., Kim Y.-IC,Choi S.-K., Park D.-I., Choi tL.S.
(1999).
FromTo-CLIR~: web-based natural hmguage interface forcross-language information lretrieval.
Journal ofInformation Processing end Management,Pergamon, Vol.
35.
No.4.
pp.
559-586.Kwok, K.L (1997).
Comparittg Representation iChinese Information Retriewfl, In Proceeding ofthe ACM SIGIR-97, pp.
34-41.Lee, J.H.
Hyun Yang Cho, Hyoltk Ro Park (1999).
n-Gram-based Indexing for Korean Text Retrieval.Journal of Information Processing andManagement, Pergamon, VoL 35.
No.4.
pp.
427-441.Lua ICT.
(1995) Predicaticm of Meaning ofBisyllabic Chinese Words Ush~g Back PropagationNeural Network.
In Commmfications of COLIPS,An International Journal of ~hinese and OrientalLanguages Information Proc~ssing Society, Vol.5,Singapore.
URL:htm:/Iwww.como.nus.edu.s~ ~coliDs/commcolios/?aper/p95.huulMatsumoto, Y., H. Kitauchi, T.. Yamashita 0997).User's Manual of Japaaese MorphologicalAnalyzer, ChaSen version 1.0 (in Japanese).Technical Report IS-TR970DT, Nara Institute ofScience and Technology (NAIST), Japan.Mudawwar, M.F.
(1997).
Multicode: A TrulyMultilingual Approach to Text Encoding.
IEEEComputer, Vol.
30.
No.
4, pp.
37-43.Nie, J.Y., Martin Brisebois and Xiaobo Ren (1996).On Chinese Text Retrieval.
In Proceeding of theACM SIGIR-96, pp.
225-233.Nie, J.Y., Jean-Pierre Chevallet and Marie-FranceBmandet (1998).
Between terms and Words forEuropean Language IR and Between Words andBigrams for Chinese IR.
In Proceeding of TextREtrieval Conference (TREC-6), pp.
697-710.Nie, J.Y.
and Fuji Ren (1999).
Chinese InformationRetrieval:using character or words?
Journal ofInformation Processing and Management,Pergamon, VoL 35.
No.4.
pp.
443-462.Oard, D.W. and Bonnie J. Dorr (1996).
A Aurvey ofMultilingual Text Retrieval.
University ofMaryland, Technical Report, UMIACS-TR-96-19,CS-TR-3615.Ogawa, Y. and Torn Matsuda (1997).
OverlappingStatistical Word Indexing: A New IndexingMethod for Japanese Text.
In Proceeding of theACM SIGIR-97, pp.
226-234.Pergamon-1999 (1999) Special issue on InformationRetrieval with Asian languages, Journal ofInformation Processing and Management, Vol 35.No.4.
Pergamon Press, London.Rehder, B., M.L.
Littman, Susan Dumais and T.K.Landaner (1998).
Automatic 3-Language Cross-Language Information Retrieval with LatentSemantic Indexing.
In Proceeding of TextREtrieval Conference (TREC-6), pp.
233-240.Salton, G. and M.J. McGill (I983).
Introduction toModem Information Retrieval, McGraw-Hill, NewYork, 1983.Sproat, R., Chilin Shih, William Gale and NancyChang.
A Statistic Finite State Word-SegmentationAlgorithm for Chinese, Computational Linguistics,Vol.
22 No.
2, pp.
377-404.Tan C.L and Makoto Nagao (1995) AutomaticAlignment of Japanese-Chinese Bilingual Texts, InIEICE Transactions of Information and Systems,Japan.
Vol.
E78-D. No.
1. pp.
68-76.TREC-6 (1998).
Proceeding of Text REtrievalConference (TREC-6).
National Institute of Scieceand Technology (NIST).
URL:http://trec.nist.gov/pubs/trec6/Unicode-2000 (2000).
The Unicode Standard,Version 3.0, Addison Wesley, Reading, \]VIA, URL:http://www.unicode.org/Witten I.H., Alistair Moffat and T.C.
Bell (1999).Managing Gigabytes: Compressing and IndexingDocuments and Images, Second Edition, MorganKaufmann Publishers.26
