Partially Saturated Referentsas a Source of Complexity in Semantic InterpretationDavid D. McDonaldDepartment of Computer Science, Brandeis Universitydavidmcdonal d @ alum.mit.eduA significant factor in the complexity of the compressed, complex prose style used byjournalists in short, targeted commercial reports (Who's News, joint ventures, earnings reports,etc.)
is the fact that many of the phrases are semantically incomplete, i.e.
their interpretation isdependent on information i  other parts of the sentence or the in discourse context.
We proposethat the complexity that such partially saturated referents contribute to the overall process ofsemantic interpretation can be characterized by two factors we will call displacement andunpacking.
This complexity source can be quantified by counting the distance, in nodes, betweeneach phrase that has a locally incomplete interpretation a d the phrase(s) that supply the termsthat complete them.In this paper we will define this phenomenon and illustrate its impact on interpretation byexamining short texts excerpted from the Tipster corpus and other online sources.1.
The ProblemThe goal of this paper is to preciselycharacterize the intuitive observation that theA sentences below are more complex thantheir B counterparts.
(Examplela.
is fromarticle 231 of the Tipster joint venture corpus;2a is from article 2279.)
The B examples werecorn-posed by the author.
The task isinformation extraction, where the goal is todetermine the amount hat each partner in thejoint venture is contributing to the venture'stotal capital-ization.la.
It will be capitalized at 130 million ringgit,which the three companies will equallyshoulder.lb The three companies will shoulder equalamounts of the venture's capitalization of130 million ringgit.2a .... the joint firm, capitalized at one billionyen, will be 60 pct owned by P.T.
AstraInternational, Inc., and 40 pct by Daihatsu.2b .... P.T.
Astra will own 60 pct of the jointfirm's capitalization of one billion yen andDaihatsu will own 40 pct.We are trying to quantify an aspect of thesemantic interpretation process--the processby which the lexical and syntactic elements of51a text are mapped to a collection of typed,structured objects with respect o some model(broadly speaking, a collection of individualsand relations over them).We presume (a) that interpretations areformed compositionally following the pathsprovided by the syntax; (b) that they come intoexistence incrementally phrase by phrase,object by object as the parser moves left toright through the text.
This implies that mostrelations will initially be only partially satur-ated.
And (c) that the mapping from lexico-syntactic objects to semantic objects is amatter of recognizing function-argumentpatterns that are indicated structurally ormorphologically and ultimately driven byinformation provided by the lexical sources ofthe predicates.Given this background, the question is whatmakes the A sentences more complex than theB sentences even though both conveyessentially the same information, l The answer,Information, albeit of a different kind, is alsoconveyed by ordenng, choice of cohesivedevices, or even just following the stylisticconventions ofthe genre (which the Bsentences do not).
Quantifying the impact ofas we see it, lies in the nature of the path thatthat terms must take through the text's phrasestructure as they are composed to formrelations: the farther the distance the greaterthe complexity.Compositional complexity, as we proposeto call this phenomenon, is a problem thatarises because speakers establish theirrelationship with their audience by producingtexts (in the formal sense) rather than ajumbled salad of independent phrases.
To thisend, speakers have at their disposal a largebattery of linguistic devices that give textstheir cohesion by omitting information thattheir audience must now infer, therebyinducing the audience's attention (Halliday &Hasan 1976).One of these devices is the use of phraseswhose interpretations are locally incomplete:partially saturated.
To understand suchphrases, the audience (natural language under-standing system) must search through thecontext and identify the terms that are neededto fully populate (saturate) the model-levelrelations these phrases denote.We call this aspect of the semanticinterpretation process 'compositional' com-plexity because we assume that the bulk of theorganization on the context hat is searched isprovided by the text's syntactic structure, andthat the interpretation process overall isorganized compositionally as a walk over thephrase structure the syntax defines (for us abottom up and left to right traversal in lock-step with the parser as it establishes phrasalboundaries).These assumptions suggest hat a text willbe harder to understand the greater theseparation between the partially-saturatedrelations and their missing terms (i.e.
theprocess of its interpretation will require moreeffort in terms of larger working state, using aricher type system, deploying a more complexthis information structure, however, is beyondour present abilities.
52control structure, inviting a greater chance oferror, etc.).
As a first approximation we willmeasure this complexity by counting thenumber of intervening syntactic nodes.2.
An ExampleWe will explore this notion ofcompositional complexity by first looking insome detail at the structure and interpretationof example la, "It \[the joint venture\] will becapitalized at 130 million ringgit, which thethree companies will equally shoulder", whichwe take to have the following syntacticstructure.
2si~ppvg at " ~will beNP130mil.
ringgit ~ N ~the three vgvgwill equa l~vshoulderThe first clause, "it wilt be capitalized at130 million ringgif', illustrates the simplestcase of compositional complexity, where termsare adjacent to their targets.
We assume thatWe are agnostic about what the 'true' choice oflabelings and other theory-governed particularsshould be; what is important isthe overallshape of the tree.the word capitalize in the sense used here 3denotes a function of two arguments, where Jis restricted to (can only be bound to) objectsof type joint venture and $ to objects of typeamount of money.J,$ .
capital izat ion(J ,  $)In this base case the two needed terms are notseparated by any intermediary syntactic nodesand we say that the text has a compositionalcomplexity of zero.The result of binding these two terms is theinstantiation of the fully saturated relation (i)below.
What is shown is an expression but itintended just as a gloss of a typed structuredobject.
Here and the examples to follow wewill abbreviate freely in the interests of space,e.g.
jv indicates the object that represents thejoint venture, 130-million-ringget the objectrep-resenting the instance of that amount ofmoney that is being invested in the venture,and so on.
We have given expression (i) alabel, Cap- l ,  to emphasize its status as anobject and to provide a simple means ofindicating references to it in other relations.
(i) Cap-l: capita l izat ion( J ,  130-mi l l ion-r inggit)Adopting an operational perspective, wecan identify two different aspects ofcompositional complexity: displacement andunpacking.
Displacement is simply the separ-ation between a term and its binding site giventheir relative depths in the tree.The need for unpacking follows from ourassumption that a text is interpretedincrementally, with relations (or partial rela-tions) forming as soon as possible in theparser's progress through the text.
We alsoassume that the individual elements of the textbecome unavailable at that moment exceptwith respect o their configuration within therelation they have become part of.This is the sense of capitalize where it does nothave an agent; cf.
"Oracle lost $3.9 billion inmarket capitalization" \[Wired 8.03, pg.
272\].53In our experience this is a valuableproperty.
Consider the partially saturated rela-tion below that is the denotation of the relativeclause of la at the point when the downstairs Shas been parsed ("which the three companieswill equally shoulder").
We assume for presentpurposes that shoulder denotes a model-levelcategory we can gloss as contributes-to-capita-lization.
The objects representing the threecompanies are glossed as just C 1, C2, C3.
( ii ) ~ amount contributes-to-capitalization( col lection(Cl,  C2,C3 ), amount)The agent of this relation is plain enough(those three particular companies), but whatabout he 'amount' that they contribute?Syntactically, the relative clause is ofcourse open in its direct object, which theparser will associate with the np 130 millionringgit.
But how is this syntactic open variablemirrored semantically?
When thought of as acontri-bution to capitalization, the denotationof 130 million ringgit is not simply an amountof money in Indonesian currency, which wouldbe meaningless.
The np's denotation shouldinstead provide a link though which we candetermine that the money constitutes the fund-ing of some particular venture.
This can bereflected in the restriction we place on theamount variable.This is where unpacking comes in.
We havethe option to view (i) as a composite objectwith a first class object representing each of itsvariable bindings in its own right, as in (iii)which is the unreduced binding of the amountof money to the amount variable of the objectwe named Cap-1 in (i).
(iii) Amt- 1:((~ amount .
Cap-l)130 -mil I ion- r inggit  )Under this view we can unpack Cap- i  intoits constituent elements and make this bindingobject accessible to be bound to amount,giving us:(iv) contr ibutes- to-capi ta l i zat lon (col lect ion(Cl,  C2, C3), Amt~l)3.
MeasurementsNow that we have illustrated the characterof the complexity involved, what kind ofnumbers hould be put to this so that we cancompare different ext quantitatively?
With noliterature to guide us here we should start witha simple calculuS.
We will add one 'point' foreach node that intervenes between the partialrelation and each term that it is missing, andone for each variable binding that must beunpacked from an already formed relation.Under this analysis, the displacement of the'amount' term contributes two points for thetwo nodes that intervene between the locationof the verb and the relative pronoun.
4 We addanother point for unpacking given that theamount of money per se does not fit therestrictions we imposed on the AMT of acontributes-to-capitalization and we need tounpack the denotation of the upper clause toget at the binding we need.
This gives us atotal of three points of compositionalcomplexity for saturating the relation createdby shoulder.What other kinds of costs have we ignoredso far?
One definite cost is establishing whatcategory (function, predicate) shoulder actual-ly denotes ince unless that is known the typeconstraints on its variable bindings will beuntenably vague.
(Consider that in this domainit will be quite common to see the phrase toshoulder debt.
)Another, possibly debatable, cost is whetherto distribute the denotation of the "the threecompanies" across the capitalization to createthree individual relations.
Just like one couldelect to ignore the fact that a multi-termrelation can be seen as a set of individualvariable bindings until one of those bindings isWe assume the parser carries the denotation of?
the relativized np down to the spec posi-tion;doing that certainly permits an easier analysisof the relative clause since it allows it to take onthe surface pattern of, e.g., topicalization.54needed to do work in another part of the text'sinterpretation, the distribution of thisconjunction could remain a latent option untilit was needed to make explicit some othersemantic relation.We do need to distribute the companiesconjunction in example 1 a because of the otherrelation-generating lexical head that we haveyet to consider: equally.
(Recall that the text ofla is "It will be capitalized at 130 millionringgit, which the three companies will equallyshoulder".)
In isolation (before being specia-lized to the situation of joint venture capital-ization, another cost), equal denotes a com-pletely unsaturated relation:k co l lec t ion  ( par t i t ion  (measurable-stuff) ) .
equal  ( e lements -o f  (co l lec t ion  ( par t i t ion(measurable-stuf f )  ) ) )Admittedly this choice of semantics mayalready be biased to the joint venturesproblem, but it's thrust is to say that there mustbe some stuff that has been partitioned intosome indeterminate numberaggregate these portions formthat all of these portions areequal.of portions; ina collection; andin some respectHere equal is predicated of whatever theshoulder clause denotes so the process offorming its interpretation must meet andfollow the process of forming that clause'sinterpretation as it percolates up the headlineof the relative clause and into the main clause.Equal is open in something of typecollection where that collection is a partition ofsomething.
The first collection to be seen mov-ing up the headline at a remove of two nodes(the main verb and the vp) is the conjunctionof companies.
Because (a) equal is predicatingthe equality of some aspect of each of theelements of the collection and (b) thecompanies per se do not have textuallyobvious things that might be partitioned, wecan make sense of this only by distributing notjust the companies but the companies qua theirparticipation in the contribution-to-capitaliza-tion relation.This gives us the three latent contribution-to-capitalization relations (at only the cost ofthe distribution construction, which isprobably cheap).
As part of that distributionconstruction we must also partition the amountof the contribution (object (iii)) into threeparts.
This entails unpacking those relations toexpose their amount bindings.
The equalsrelation then boils to down to a predication 5over those three binding objects, viz.
(v) Contrib-l: contributes-to-capital-ization (Cl, Cap-l, Amt-2)(vi) Contrib-2 : contributes-to-capi-talization (C2, Cap-l, Amt-3)(vii) Contrib-3 : contributes-to-cap-italization (C3, Cap-l, Amt-4)(viii) Amt-2: ~ amount .
contributes-to-capitalization (Cl, Cap-l,amount)(ix) Amt-3: ~ amount contributes-to-capitalization (C2, Cap-l,amount)(x) Amt-4: ~ amount contrlbutes-to-capital ization (C3, Cap-l, amount)(xi) equal (Amt-2, Amt-3, Amt-4)In terms of our computational complexitymetric, the interpretation of the equallymodifier has contributed two points for thedisplacement between it and the conjunction ofcompanies and then (modulo the distributioncost) one point for unpacking the relation thecompanies are participating it to isolate theamount  binding(s).This gives example 1 a a total compositionalcomplexity of 6: its three relation sources,capitalized, shoulder, and equally contributingzero, three, and three counts respectively; fourof the counts reflecting the distance that dis-placed elements from their binding sites, andtwo reflecting the effort to dip into, or'unpack', already created relations in order toselect or reify one of the elements within them.The amounts of money that he companies arecontributing is given abstractly rather thancalculated out since that appears to be thepreferred level at which it should be representedfor reasoning inthis domain55Contrast la, with its complexity of six, withlb, which has a compositional complexity ofzero (though the rather severe departure of thisartificially constructed sentence from thenormal stylistic patterning must have a cost tohuman readers).lb The three companies will shoulder equalamounts of the venture's capitalization of130 million ringgit.lb garners this minimal cost by placingeach contributing term right next the partialrelation that provides its binding site, notablypushing the capitalization clause of 1 a down tothe rightmost and lowest position in the sen-tence's phrase structure.Example two presents a challenge to astandard compositional model of interpretationthat assumes that the denotation of the syn-tactic head provides the basis for interpretingthe head's yntactic arguments.2a .... the joint firm, capital&ed at one billionyen, will be 60 pet owned by P.T.
AstraInternational, Inc., and 40 pct by Daihatsu.The syntactic head of the conjunct "40 pctby Daihatsu'" has to be the percentage, yetthere is no way to fashion a plausible rule ofinterpretation that binds a company to apercentage.
Instead, both terms must be passedup through the conjunction node to theownership clause (1 count) and then unpackthe interpretation f that clause to extract hecapitalization value and the joint venture (2counts, one for each term).
Given that thecapitalization of the joint venture was given inan appositive off the subject, the ownershipclause itself required two extra counts for itsconstruction, one to unpack the capitalizationand a second for the displacement of the firstparent company (P.T.
Astra) away from theverb in its agentive by-phrase (though thatcount is debatable since the grammar mightexplicitly subcategorize for it).Complexity of this kind is ubiquitous inbusiness reporting.
Consider this excerpt fromthe beginning of a quarterly earnings report(PRNewsWire 1/21/00 5:21 p.m.):3.
Gensym Corp. < descriptive appositives>today reported that revenues for its fourthquarter ended December 31, 1999 were $9.1million .
.
.
.
The net loss for the fourthquarter of 1999 was.
.
.The sentence that reports the loss does notsay what company lost the money--to do sowould be unnecessarily redundant and reducethe text's cohesion.
Yet the increased tightnessof the text leaves us with an partially saturatedrelation as the immediate referent of thatsentence, open in its company variable, whichmust be actively filled in from context.Moreover this example is somewhat unusual inthat it provides a syntax-supported xplicitindicator of whose fourth quarter reportingperiod it is in the first of the two sentences;usually it would be stated ".for the fourth qua-r ter .
.
. "
and the reporting-period bject wouldalso have been left with an unbound variable.4.
ModelingUp to this point we have deliberately notdiscussed the question of how one wouldactually derive these compositional complexitycounts automatically.
We have insteadprovided a prose description of the process fora very few examples and many questions ofjust what constitutes a displacement or howone might know that a relation reached in thetraversal Should be unpacked remainunanswered.The glib answer is that you fire up yournatural language understanding system, addsome reporting facilities to it, and apply it tothe texts in question.
Today at least thatprocedure is unlikely to work since texts of thesort we have been discussing are largelybeyond the state of the art for informationextraction engines without some deliberate,do-main-specific engineering.A more germane answer would look to.some resource of hand-annotated texts andthen provide suitable definitions for displace-ment and unpacking that, given somedebugging, could then be appliedautomatically even if there was not system thatcould as yet replace the knowledge of thehuman annotator.But this answer too is not available to ussimply because such resources do not yet exist.Besides the obvious fact that efforts atproviding semantic annotations of corpora areonly just now getting underway, an additionalproblem is that the study of the semanticphenomenon that is the focus of this paper,unsaturated, model-level relations, is uncom-mon in the field and for good reason.An examination of the full text of thearticles in, e.g., the Tipster Joint Venturescorpus will show that full phrases (maximalprojections) that are unsaturated atthe momentthey are delimited by the parser and then givena semantic interpretation are unusual.
A casualexamination of the text in this section did notturn any up.
In the full text from whichexample l a was taken (which appears at theend of this paper) turns up only two moreinstances (reductions around the word sales).
Itis also worth noting that the original Tipstereffort elected to drop attempts to extractcapitalization i formation, as, indeed, these areamong the more linguistically complexconstructions in the corpus.Partially saturated relations abound infinancial texts such as quarterly earningsreports or stock market reports.
Our owninterest in this phenomena stems from ourrecent focus on such texts as well as the utilityof the perspective shifts this kind of semanticobject provides for work in the tactics ofnatural language generation (i.e.microplanning).Without further, collective study of thisclass of semantic onstructions any annotationeffort would have a considerable startup costas it arrived at candidate representations for itsannotators to use as well as a subjective cost inconvincing the rest of the community that theyhad made reasonable, practical choices that56other project could adapt to their ownpurposes.Barring a well-financed project to supply asuitably annotated corpus, we think that theproper way to proceed towards the goal of asuitable formalization is along the lines of theoriginal, glib answer to this problem, namelyto build a parser and interpretation system thatoperates at a sufficient level of generalizationthat it would require only a minimal effort toprovide the lexicon and conceptual modelneeded to examine texts in a given domain.We have been personally engaged in such aproject over the last few years, albeit at a veryslow pace given the constraints we areworking under, and have made a fair amountof progress, some of which is described inMcDonald (in press).5.
Final ObservationsThat texts with partially saturated relationsare more complex to process is, we think,undeniable.
It also seems to us a simple matterof examination to conclude that the cost isproportional to the factors we have identified:the distance by which relation elements havebeen displaced from each other and the cost ofunpacking already completed relations to findneeded terms that those relations have alreadyin some sense consumed.
On the other hand,that this cost is measured in integer valuesbased on simple phrase node counts is entirelydebatable.
As other aspects of the semanticinterpretation process are quantified thiscomponent of the total measure will at leastneed to be combined with some proportion-ality constant o make all the numbers com-parable.More interesting is the fact that some nodetransitions will certainly be different fromothers in their practical implementation andthis should probably be factored into the costcalculation.
Consider this sentence from article1271 of the Tipster joint venture corpus.574.
Inoda Cement Co .
.
.
.
.
.
said Tuesday its U.S.subsidiary has formed an equally ownedcement joint venture .
.
.
with Lone StarIndustries Inc. .
.The process that completes the 'equalownership' relation will have to reach upthrough three nodes to get to the first of thetwo owner companies.
But it will certainly bedifferent (more elaborate) to pass this partialrelation through a node that is itself creating arelation (the vp headed by form) as comparedwith passing it through report verbs like saidor raising verbs like expects to that addrelatively little information.What the composition cost comes to inpractice is, of course, a matter of thearchitecture of the parser and semanticinterpretation engine that is being deployed.For some it may be a matter of addingadditional mapping patterns that recognize thespecific local configurations that denotepartially saturated relations ('the <ordinal>quarter') and having heuristics for searchingthe discourse context for their missingelements.Systems with rich descriptive resources forlexicalized grammars such as TAGs coulddefine specific auxiliary trees for relationalheads that can appear in non-standard locations(e.g.
equally) and tie them into map-ping rulesthat might try to do the work over thederivation trees that these parsers produce.
Theconjunction problem presented by exampletwo would be amenable to a syntactictreatment in a categorial grammar, though therange of semantic types that can be combinedin this arbitrary way might make that quitedifficult in general.Finally, we must say that for us this wholeidea of viewing the local interpretation of theinterior phrases of a sentence as partiallysaturated relations and viewing theircompletion as a matter of passing these partialinterpretations through the tree is the result ofmany years of research and development on asystem where such relations are first classobjects with the same ontological status asconventional individuals.
In our system (seeMcDonald in press) the goal is to keep thesyntactic processing simple and to move theonus of the interpretation effort onto to thesemantic level by having more than onereferent move up the headline as the phrasestructure is created.
The partially saturatedrelations are given an active role in seeking thearguments that they need.
This introduces abias into our observations in this paper andcould, possibly, be creating a mountain wheresystems with quite different architecturesmight only see a molehill.References:Halliday, Michael A. K., and Ruqaiya Hasan(1976) Cohesion in English, Longman, London.McDonald, David D. (in press) "Issues in theRepresentation of Real Texts: The Design ofKrisp", in Iwanska and Shapiro (eds.)
NaturalLanguage Processing and KnowledgeRepresentation: Language for Knowledge andKnowledge for Language, AAAI Press, pgs 71-104.500 will kick off production by June 1992,with sales expected to reach some 10 billionYen.
By the mid-1990s, it will increase thenumber of employees to 2,000 and sales to 30billion Yen.
Output at the Malaysian companywill be supplied to the three companies.
Mazdawill use the products for its cars to produced inand after the second half of next year, whileFord will mount them on its cars for sales inthe Far East.
Sanyo plans to sell Malaysian -made products in Japan and other countries.</TXT></doc>Appendix: The complete text of example la<doc><docno> 0231 </docno><DD> August 9, 1990, Thursday </DD><SO> Copyright ?
1990 Jiji Press Ltd.;</SO><TXT>Mazda Motor Corp. and Sanyo ElectricCo.
of Japan and Ford Motor Co. of the UnitedStates have agreed to set up a joint venture bythe end of this year to produce car audioequipment in Malaysia, they said Thursday.The new company, whose name is not decidedyet, will produce radios, stereos, compact discplayers and tuners used for cars.
It will becapitalized at 130 million ringgit, which thethree companies will equally shoulder.
Thethree plan to construct a 21,000-square-meterplant in the Prai Industrial Estate of Penang.The joint venture with a startup workforce of58
