Issues in the Transcription of English Conversational GruntsNige l  Ward?
Mech-In.fo Engineering, University of Tokyo,Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japannigel@sanpo.t.u-tokyo.ac.jpht tp: / /www.sanpo.t .u- tokyo.ac.
jp /~ nigel/Abst ractConversational grunts, such as uh-huh, un-hn, rnrn, and oh are ubiq-uitous in spoken English, but nosatisfactory scheme for transcrib-ing these items exists.
This pa-per describes previous approaches,presents ome facts about the pho-netics of grunts, proposes a tran-scription scheme, and evaluates itsaccuracy.
11 The  Impor tance  o fConversat iona l  Grunts:Conversational grunts, such as uh-huh, un-hn~ram, and oh are ubiquitous in spoken English.In our conversation data, these grunts occuran average of once every 5 seconds in Amer-ican English conversation.
In a sample of 79conversations from a larger corpus, Switch-board, urn was the 6th most frequent item(after /, and, the, you, and a), and the fouritems uh, uh-huh, um and urn-hum accountedfor 4% of the total.
These sounds are not onlyfrequent, they are important in language use.To mention just one example, people learn-ing English as a second language are handi-capped in informal interactions if they cannotproduce and recognize these sounds.1I would like to tb.nlr Takeki Kamiyama for pho-netic label cross-checld-g, all those who let me recordtheir conversations, and the anonymous referees; andalso the Japanese 1Vr;nlqtry of Education, the SoundTechnology Promotion Foundation, the NakayamaFoundation, the Inamori Foundation, the Interna-tional Communications Fonndation and the OkawaFoundation for support.Just to be clear about definitions, in thispaper 'grunts 2' means sounds which are ~notwords', where a prototypical "word" is asound having 1. a clear meaning, 2. the abil-ity to participate in syntactic onstructions,and 3. a phonotactically normal pronuncia-tion.
For example, uh-huh is a grunt since ithas no referential meaning, has no syntacticaffinities, and has salient breathiness.
In thispaper 'conversational' refers to sounds whichoccur in conversation and are at least in partdirected at the interlocutor, rather than be-ing purely self-directed 3.
Both of these defi-nitions have flaws, but they provide a fairlyobjective criterion for delimiting the set ofitems which any transcription scheme shouldbe able to handle.The phenomena circumscribed by this def-inition are a subset of "vocal segregates"(Trager, 1958) and of "interjections": the dif-ference is that it limits attention to soundsoccurring in conversations.
This definitionalso roughly delimits the subset of "discoursemarkers" or "discourse particles" which occurin informal spoken discourse.As the phonetics and meanings of conver-sational grunts are currently not well under-stood, we have begun a project aiming to elu-cidate, model, and eventually exploit them.The current paper is a report on an approach2 It may seem that the negative connotations oftheword 'grunt' maire it inappropriate for use as a tech-nical term, but the phenomenon itself is often stlg-matised, and so the term is appropriate in that sensetoo.STwo rules of thnmh were adopted to help in caseswhich were difllcult to judge: consider laughter as notconversational, nd consider as conversational every-thing else that might possibly be playing some com-municative role, even if it isn't clear what that rolemight be.29to the preliminary problem of how to tran-scribe these sounds.A generally usable, standardized transcrip-tion scheme would be of great value.
Im-mediate applications include screenplay writ-ing and court recording.
It would also fa-cilitate the systematic corpns-based study ofthe meanings and functions of these sounds 4.There are also prospects for applications insystems.
One could imagine a dialog tran-scription system that produces output withthe grunts represented in enough detail toshow whether a listener is being enthusias-tic, reluctant, non-committal, bored, etc., asthese states are often indicated by gruntsrather than by words.
One could imaginespoken dialog systems which prompt and con-firm concisely with such grunts, instead of fullwords or phrases.
And one could imagine spo-ken dialog systems which adjust their outputbased on barge-in feedback from the user suchas uh-huh meaning "go on, don't talk so slow",uh-hum meaning "stop, I need to think", andah meaning "I have something to say".Section 2 surveys previous approaches togrunt transcription, Section 3 proposes aslightly new scheme, Section 4 discusses itsadequacy, and Section 5 points out some openissues.2 Prev ious  Schemes  for  GruntT ranscr ip t ionThis section points out the problems with pre-vious approaches to grunt translation.2.1 Phonet ica l ly  Accurate  SchemesOne tradition in labeling grunts is to use acompletely general scheme.
The central inspi-ration here is the fact that grunts are unlikewords, in that they contain sounds which arenever seen in the lexical items of the language.As such, they can fall outside the coverageof even the International Phonetic Alphabet,which is only designed to handle those sounds4This is not to say that there can be a strict order-ing of activities here: on the contrary, it is not pos-sible to fix a transcription standard without at leasta tacit theory of the meanings and functions of theitems being t ra~ibed .
Some thoughts on this ap-pear elsewhere (Ward, 2000).which occur contrastively in some words insome language.
Thus there have been pro-posals for richer, more complete transcriptionschemes, capable of handling just about anycommunicative noise that people have beenobserved to produce, including moans, criesand belches (Trager, 1958; Poyatos, 1975).One disadvantage of these notations i  thatthey are not usable without raining.A second isadvantage is that their gener-ality is excessive for everyday use.
As seenbelow, the vast majority of conversationalgrunts are drawn from a much smaller inven-tory of sounds.A third disadvantage is that they providemore accuracy than is needed.
For exam-ple, in English there appear to be no gruntsin which the difference between an alveolarnasal, a velar nasal, or nasalization of a vowelconveys a difference in meaning, and so thesedo not need to be distinguished in transcrip-tion.2.2 A Funct lon-based SchemesAn alternative approach is seen in someschemes used for labeling corpora for pur-poses of training and evaluating speech rec-ognizers.
A quote from the most recentSwitchboard labeling standard (Hamaker etal., 1998) gives the flavor:20.
Hesitation Sounds: Use "uh"or "ah" for hesitations consistingof a vowel sound, and "urn" or"hm" for hesitations with a nasalsound, depending upon which tran-scription the actual sound is closestto.
Use "huh" for aspirated versionof the hesitation as in "huh?
<otherspeaker responds> um ok, I see yourpoint.
"21: yes/no sounds: Use "uh-huh"or "um-hum" (yes) and "huh-uh"or "hum-tun" (no) for anything re-motely resembling these sounds ofassent or denial"Another scheme (Lander, 1996) lists several"miscellaneous words", including:30"nuh uh" (no), "ram hmm" (yes),"hmm mmm" (no), 'hnm ram" (no),"uh huh" (yes), "huh uh" (no), "uhuh" (no)The inspiration behind these schemesseems to be the idea that grunts are just likewords.
This leads to two assumptions, bothof which are questionable.
First, there is theassumption that each grunt has some fixedmeaning and some fixed functional role (filler,back-channel, etc).
However, many specificgrunt sounds can be found in more than onefunctional role, as seen in Table 1.
Second,there is the assumption that the set of conver-sational grunts is small.
However the numberof observed grunts is not small~ as seen in Ta-ble 2, and the set of possible grunts is prob-ably not even finite: for example, it wouldnot be surprising at all to hear the soundhura-ha-har~ in conversation, or hem-ha-an, orhurn-ha-un, and so on, and so on.
(However,not every possible sound seems likely to be aconversational grunt; for example ziflug wouldseem a surprising novelty, and would be down-right weird in any of the functional positionstypical for grunts.
)One concrete problem with these schemesis that they are not designed to allow pho-netically accurate representations of grunts 5.In particular, they make the task of the la-beler a rather strange one.
Given a grunt,first he must examine the context to deter-mine whether it is a back-channel or a filler,then determine whether it sounds affirmativeor negative, and only then can he considerwhat the actual sound is, and his options arelimited to picking one of the labels in the func-tional/semantic category.
The relation be-tween the letters of the label and the phonet-ics of the grunt becomes omewhat arbitrary.This would be more tolerable if there was aclear tendency for each grunt to occur in onlyone functional position, but this is not thecase, as noted above.
The use of the aifirma-tive/negatlve distinction as a primary classi-ficatory feature is also also open to question.In our corpus, only 1% of the grunts were neg-ative in meaning, and these were all in con-texts where a negative answer was expectedor likely, so this distinction is a strange choicefor a top-level dividing principle.
Moreover,negative grunts are, in fact, characterized bytwo-syllables with a sharp syllable boundary,often a glottal stop, and/or a sharp down-step in pitch, and/or a lack of breathiness,but these features are reflected only tenuouslyin the spellings listed as possible for negativegrunts in these schemes.2.3 Naive TranscriptionThe third tradition in transcribing grunts is toallow labelers to just spell them in the 'usual'way, as one might see them written in thecomics or in a detective novel.
The inspirationbehind this is that native speakers generallyhave had a lot of exposure to orthographicrepresentations of grunts, and can be trustedto do the right thing.One  problem with this tradition is that themapping from letter sequences to the actualsounds is not clear.
For example, a conversa-tion transcription given as a textbook exam-ple of good practice includes "u" and "uh",and "oh" and "oo" (Hutchby and Wooffitt,1999), without footnoting.
Presumably the%o" means /u / ,  but it could also possiblymean a version of "oh" with strong lip round-hag, or a longer form of "oh", or perhaps ashorter form (if the labeler was trying to avoidconfusion with the archaic vocative "o') .
En-glish orthography is phonetically ambiguousand not standardized for grunts.A second problem with this tradition is thatcreaky voice (vocal fry), although pragmati-cally significant, is generally not represented(although many practitioners are surprisinglydiligent at noting occurrences of breathiness).2.4 Summary  o f  Des iderataIdeally we want a scheme for transcribinggrunts whichI.
is easy to learn and use,5 Th.ls is acceptable if the only aim is to train speechrecognizers, where the speech recognizers' acousticmodels will end up capturing the possible phoneticvariation without human intervention, and if thespeech recognition results are not intended for actualuse, but merely to be fed into an algorithm for COl-puting recognition scores.31total back-channel fillerdis-fluency\[clear-throat\] 2 1tsk 22 .
12 2ah 7 1 3 3aum 5 4 1hh 3hmm 2huh 2m-hm 2 :ir-am 2 2mmm 3 ',.
)myeah 2 2nn-hn 4 4oh 20 6oh-okay 2 1okay 8 2 2u-uh 4 2uh 38 14 21uh-hn 2uh-huh 3 3uh-uh 2 1 1nhh 2 2ukay 2 1 Ium 20 10 8,,ram 5 5uu 5 2 2uum 5 3 2yeah 71 27 19 1(other) 72 34 19 3Total 317 91 108 45isolate response confirm- ation6 6 68 320 13 8final other171i511 11 112 4I 46 26Table 1: Counts  of Grunt  Occurrences in var ious pos i t ions  and  funct iona l  roles, for all g runtsoccurr ing  2 or more  t imes in  our  corpus\[clear-throat\] 2tsk 23tsk-naa 1tsk-neeu 1tsk-ooh 1tsk-yeah 1\[inhale\] 1\[unsticking\] 4aaachh 1ah 7ahh 1ai 1amBOaDOaumeahehhh-Ylllrllq~haahhhhh-ae~hhhhhhh-uuuhhhnhmmhmm'ml'nrn1 Imlm-lmhuhiiiyeah1 m-hm1 mmI ~m-hm1fflffn-IYiYrt1 vn'rnrn1 myeah1 nn-hnnn-nnn Inu 1nuuuuu 1nyaa-haao 1nyeah 1o-w 1oa 1oh 20oh-eh Ioh-kay 1oh-okay 2oh-yeah 1okay 8okay-hh Iooa Iookay 1oooh Iooooh Ioop-ep-oop Iu-kay 1Tab le  2: Al l  Grunts  in our  Corpus ,  withu-uh 4u-uun 1uam 1uh 38u.h-hn 2uh-hn-uh-hn 1uh-hu.h 3uh-~ 1uh.-uh 2u.h-uhmmm Inhh 2uhbh 1.hhm 1ulmy 221um-hm-u.h-hm 1Rl-lr11'n~----n,,Hn 1au-lm 1un\]my 1unununu 1uu 5uum 5unmm 1uun 1uutth 1uuuuuuu 1WOW 1yah-yeah 1ye 1yeah 71yeah-oksy 1yeah-yeah Iyeahaah Iyeah.h 1yegh 1yeh-yeah Iyei Iyo 1yyeah Inumbers  of occurrences322.
can represent all observed grunts, and3.
unambiguously represents all meaningfuldifferences in sound.While it is not possible to devise a singletranscription scheme which is perfect for allpurposes (Barry and Fourcin, 1992), it is clearthat the current schemes all have room forimprovement.3 P roposa lThe basic idea is to start with the naive tran-scription tradition and then tighten it up.The advantages of using this as a startingpoint are two.
First, it's convenient, sinceit is ASCII, familiar, and requires no specialtraining.
Second, as the result of the cumu-lative result of many years of novelists' andcartoonists' efforts to represent dialog, it haspresumably evolved to be fairly adequate forcapturing those sounds variations which aresignificant to meaning.The biggest need is to clarify and regular-ize the mapping from transcription to sound.This is the primary contribution of this paper:a specification of the actual phonetic valuesof each of the letters commonly used in tran-Scribing conversational grunts, as follows:u means schwa.
This causes no confusion be-cause high vowels, including/u/, are van-ishingly rare in conversational grunts.n generally means nasalization.
This is un-familiar in that English, unlike French,has no nasalized vowels in the words ofthe lexicon.
However in grunts nasaliza-tion is common, as in ~n-hn and nyeah,and meaning-bearing.
Occasionally theremay be nasal consonants, and n can alsobe used for such cases, without confusion,because they appear to bear the same se-mantic value.h generally means breathiness.
This often oc-curs at syllable boundaries, as in nh-huh.Some items involve breathiness through-out a syllable, others involve a consonan-ta l /h / ,  while others seem ambiguous be-tween these two.A single syllable-final 'h' bears no pho-netic value.tsk indicates an alveolar tongue click.
Theseoccur often in isolation, and occasionallygrunt-initially 6.- (hyphen) indicates a fairly strong syllableboundary.
Phonetically this means a ma-jor dip in energy level, a sharp disconti-nuity in pitch, or a significant region ofbreathy or creaky voice.\ [repetit ion\]  Repetition of a letter indicateslength and/or multiple weakly-separatedsyllables.uu as a syllable is a special case, indicating acreaky schwaAll other letters have the normal values.There are two things that standard En-glish orthography provides no way to express.These are expressed as annotations, followingthe basic transcription and separated from itby a comma.cr indicates creaky voice, as in yeah:er.
Forfurther precision numbers from 1 to 3can be postposed, as in :crl for slightlycreaky and :cr3 for extremely creaky.
{nllrnhers~ numbers after a colon indicateanchor points for the pitch contour, onthe standard 1 to 5 scale.
Thus uh-uh:~-22 is a negative response or warn-ing, but uh-huh:43-22 is an blatantly un-interested back-channel, and uh-huh:32-34 is the standard, polite back-channeLTable 3 summarizes these letter-soundmappings.
Table 4 suggests which sounds aremost common.4 AdequacyThis scheme does fairly well by the criteria of?2.4.
?There are cases where the click is followed by avoiced sound without any perceptible pause (with adelay from the onset of the click to the onset of voicingof 50 to 170 milliseconds).33notation \[ p\]~onetic valuenon-trivial mappingsh a single syllable-final 'h' bears no phonetic value,elsewhere 'h' indicates/h/or breathinessnasalization, occasionally a nasal consonant (other than/m/ )tsk alveolar tongue clicku ~ (schwa)repetition of a letter length and/or multiple weakly-separated syllables- (hyphen) a fairly strong boundary between syllables or wordsstandard mappings common in gruntsm /m/o /o/a /a/y /jl, as in yeah and variantsidiosyncratic spellingsyeah / je~/kay /keI/, as in okay, ukay, llnkay, mkay etc.uu as a syllable, indicates a short creaky or glottalized schwaannotations:cr creaky voice (vocal fry):1~5 pitch levelTable 3: Regularized English Orthography for Conversational Grunts",7sound number/m/nasalization/h/and breathinessclickscreaky voice/schwa//o//a/5620382553109355Table 4: Nllmbers of grunts in our corpuswhich include the various sound components1.
As far as clarity and usability, thisscheme has a direct and simple mapping fromrepresentation to the actual phonetics.
It hasbeen trivial to learn and easy to use (at leastfor the author; other labelers have not yetbeen trained).2.
As far as representational coverage, thisscheme is adequate for some 97% (=306/317)of the grunts which occur in our corpus.
Thusit is not truly complete, and labelers mustbe allowed to escape into standard lexicalorthography (for things like oop-ep-oop andwow), into IPA (for eases like achh and yegh,palatal and velar fricatives, respectively), andinto ad hoc notion (for cases like throat clear-ings and noisy exhalations).3.
As far as precision, the scheme allowssumciently detailed representation; at least toa first appro~mation.
In particular, it coversall known meaningful phonetic variations.
Itis, however possible that other phonetic dis-tinctions are also significant.
For example,it may be that the exact height of a vowel34matters, or the exact time point at which avowel starts getting creaky, or the presenceof glottal stops, lip rounding, glottalization,falsetto, and so on matter, or the precise de-tails of pitch and energy contours matter.Conversely, the scheme is not over-precise:all the phonetic elements represented in thescheme appear to bear meanings (Ward,2000).Regarding unambignity, the scheme is animprovement but has one failing: repetitionof a letter represents either extended urationor the presence of multiple syllables.
As thesetwo phonetic features are generally correlated,and the difference in meaning between themis anyway subtle, this may not be a majorproblem.5 Open I ssuesThis notation assumes that the componentsounds are categorical (except for creakinessand pitch), but this may in fact not be thecase.
Rather it may be that the phoneticcomponents of grunts have a "gradual, ratherthan binary, oppositional character" (3akob-son and Waugh, 1979).
This is a problemespecially for nasalization and for vowels: itmay be that there is an infinite number ofslightly but significantly different variations.Further study is required.Experiments with multiple independent la-belers are needed to evaluate usability andmeasure cross-labeler agreement.Applying this notation can be complicatedby dialect and individual differences.
For ex-ample, the primary filler for one speaker inour corpus was aura.
Right now it is notknown whether this is a mere pronunciationvariation, perhaps dialect-related, or signif-icantly different from urn.
More study isneeded.Other languages also have conversationalgrunts, for example, oua/s and hien in French,ja and hm in German, and un, he and ya inJapanese (Ward, 1998), and it may be pos-sible to use or adapt the present scheme forthese and other languages.Re ferencesW.
J. Barry and A.
3.
Fourcin.
1992.
Levels of la-beling.
Computer Speech and Language, pages1-14.J.
Hamaker, Y. Zeng, and J. Picone.
1998.
Rulesand guidelines for transcription and segmenta-tion of the switchboard large vocabulary con-versational speech recognition corpus, version7.1.
Technical report, Institute for Signal andInformation Processing, Mississippi State Uni-versity.Inn Hutchby and Robin Wooflltt.
1999.
Conver-sation Analysis.
Blackwell.Roman Jakobson and Linda Waugh.
1979.
TheSound Shape of Language.
Indiana UniversityPress.T.
Lander.
1996.
The CSLU labeling uide.
Tech-nical Report CSLU-014--96, Center for SpokenLanguage Understanding, Oregon Graduate In-stitute of Science and Technology.Fernando Poyatos.
1975.
Cross-cultural study ofparalingulstic "alternants" in face-to-face inter-action.
In Adam Kendon, Richard M. Harris,and Mary tL Key, editors, Organization of Be-havior in Face-to-Face Interaction, pages 285--314.
Mouton.George L. Trager.approximation.1-12.1958.
Paralanguage: A firstStudies in Linguistics, pagesNigel Ward.
1998.
The relationship betweensound and me~nlng in Japanese back-channelgrunts.
In Proceedings ofthe ~th Annual Meet-ing of the (Japanese) Association for NaturalLanguage Processing, pages 464-467.Nigel Ward.
2000.
The challenge of non-lexicalspeech sounds.
In International Conference onSpoken Language Processing.
to appear.
