Appendix I I :  Discussion Panel on EvaluationResearchin GenerationModerator: Inderjeet ManiEvaluation is critical in offering feedback on progress_toboth developers andpotential consumersof NLG technology.
However, evaluation has thus far not been as well-established in NLG as ithas become in NLU.
This panel will discuss evaluation methods and resources.
It is aimed atbuilding a better understanding ofNLG evaluation methods, and hopefully arriving at steps tofacilitate future evaluations.Applicable evaluation methods can be derived from work in NLG as well as Text Summarizationand Machine Translation.
The evaluation methods include intrinsic methods which test thegeneration system in itself, and extrinsic methods which test the generation system in relation tosome other task.Intrinsic methods can include assessing coverage of different varieties of generation input, thequality of the generated output, and comparison of generated output against reference output atsome level (e.g., by using subjective grading, comparison against emplates, or comparing humancorrectness in answering questions based on each type of output, etc.)
Of course, a fundamentalproblem in evaluating NLG is that there may be many acceptable outputs.Extrinsic methods can include measuring efficiency in executing enerated instructions (e.g., howeasy was it to install the component by following the generated manual?
), assessing the relevanceof generated output o some information eed or goal (e.g., are the generated business letterseffective?
), its impact on a system in which it is embedded (e.g., how much does the generationhelp the question answering system?
), measuring the amount of effort required to post-edit theoutput (e.g., how much do the generated briefings need to be fixed up?
), etc.As the generation technology becomes more mature, it is useful to assess end-user acceptabilityof generated output, extensibility and portability, throughput, cost-benefit measures, etc.
it is alsointeresting for evaluations address both features important to the overall task, as well as featuresunique to NL generation.Participants will address the following issues:1.
What evaluation methods are applicable to NLG?2.
What are the pros and cons of NLG evaluations you have carried out?3.
Can we construct corpora to help evaluate NLG systems?4.
What steps can we collectively take to improve the role of evaluation in NLG?273
