Verb Subcategorization Frequency Differences between Business-News and Balanced Corpora: The Role of Verb SenseIDouglas Roland, ~"Danid Jurafsky, "3Lise Menn,'Susanne Gahl, IElizabeth Elder and IChrisRiddoch~Department of Linguistics, 2Department ofComputer Science, 3Institute of CognitiveScienceUniversity of ColoradoBoulder, CO 80309-0295{ douglas.roland, jurafslQ1, lise.menn,elizabeth.elder,christopher.b.riddoch } @colorado.edu'Department ofLinguisticsHarvard UniversityCambridge MA 02138sgahl @ fas.harvard.eduAbstractWe explore the differences in verbsubeategorization frequencies across severalcorpora in an effort to obtain stable crosscorpus subcategonzation probabilities foruse in norming psychological experiments.For the 64 single sense verbs we looked at,subeategorizatlon preferences wereremarkably stable between British andAmerican corpora, and between balancedcorpora and financial news corpora.
Of theverbs that did show differences, thesedifferences were generally found betweenthe balanced corpora nd the financial newsdata.
We show that all or nearly all ofthese shifts in subcategorization arerealisedvia (often subtle) word sense differences.This is an interesting observation i  itself,and also suggests that stable cross corpussubcategorization frequencies may be foundwhen verb sense is adequately controlled.IntroductionVerb subcategorizafion probabilities play animportant role in both computational linguisticapplications (e.g.
Carroll, Minnen, and Briscoe1998, Charniak 1997, Collins 1996/1997, Joshiand Srinivas 1994, Kim, Srinivas, and Tmeswell1997, Stolcke et al 1997) and psycholinguisficmodels of language processing (e.g.
Boland1997, Clifton et al 1984, Ferreira & McClure1997, Fodor 1978, Garnsey et al 1997, Jurafsky1996, MacDonald 1994, Mitchell & Holmes1985, Tanenhaus et al 1990, Trueswell et al1993).Previous research, however, has shown thatsubcategorization probabilities vary widely indifferent corpora.
Studies such as Merlo(1994), Gibson et al (1996), and Roland &Jurafsky (1997) have found subcategorizationfrequency differences between traditional corpusdata and data from psychological experiments.Biber (1993) and Biber et al (1998) have shownthat that word frequency, word sense (as definedby collocates), the distribution of synonymouswords and the use of syntactic structures varieswith corpus genre.
Roland & Jurafsky (1998,2000 in press) showed that there weresubcategorization frequency differences betweenvarious written and spoken corpora, andfurthermore showed that that thesesubcategorization frequency differences arecaused by variation in word sense as well asgenre and discourse type differences among thecorpora.While the subcategorization probabilities in acomputational l nguage model can be adjustedto match a particular corpus, cross corpusdifferences in such probabilities pose animportant problem when using corpora fornorming psychological experiments.
If eachcorpus generates a separate set of probabilities,which probabilities are the correct ones to use asa model of human language processing?In an attempt to use corpora to provide normingdata for 64 verbs for experimental purposes, weinvestigate in detail how verb frequencies andverb subcategorization frequencies differ amongthree corpora: the British National Corpus28(BNC), the Wall Street Journal corpus (WSJ),and the Brown Corpus (Brown).
For the 64verbs, we randomly selected a set of sentencesfrom each corpus and hand-coded them fortransitivity, passive versus active voice, andwhether the selected usage was an instance ofthe most common sense of the verb.We then ask two questions: Do these verbshave the same subcategorizafion probabilitiesacross corpora, and, when there are differences,what is the cause.
If a set of factors causing thedifferences can be identified and controlled for,then a stable set of cross-corpus probabilitiessuitable for norming psychological experimentscan be generated.While previous work has shown that differencesbetween corpora do exist, and that word sensedifferences play a large role in realising thesedifferences, much less is known about he effectof other factors on subcategorizafion variationacross corpora.
For example, are there grosssubcategorization differences between Britishand American English?
To what extent does thebusiness-genre nature of the Wall Street Journalcorpus affect subcategorization probabilities?Finally, while Roland and Jurafsky (2000 inpress) suggested that sense differences played amajor ole in subcategorization biases, they wereonly able to test their hypothesis on a smallnumber of verbs.Our eventual goal is an understanding of manylevels of verb differences across corpora,including verb frequency, frequency of transitiveversus intransitive uses, frequency of othersubcategonzafion frames, and frequency ofactive versus passive use.
This paper reportsour preliminary results on the first two of theseissues.
Verb usage was surprisingly unaffectedby differences between British and AmericanEnglish.
Those differences that did occur seemmostly to be caused by differences in thedistribution of verb senses across corpora.
Thebusiness-genre nature of the Wall Street Journalcorpus caused certain verbs to appear more oftenin particular senses that had a strong effect on itssubcategorization frequencies.
Even aftercontrolfing for the broad sense of the verb, wefound subcategorization differences caused bythe "micro-differences" in sense, including quitespecific arguments othe verb.1 DataData for 64 verbs (shown in Table 1) wascollected from three corpora; The BritishNational Corpus (BNC)(http'J/info.ox.ac.uk/bnc/index.html), he PennTreehank parsed version of the Brown Corpus(Brown), and the Penn Treebank Wall StreetJournal corpas (WSJ) (Marcus et al 1993).The 64 verbs were chosen on the basis of therequirements of separate psychologicalexperiments including having a single dominantsense, being easily imagable" and participatingin one of several subcategorization alternations.A random sample of 100 examples of each verbwas selected from each of the three corpora.When the corpus contained less than 100 tokensof the verb, as was frequently the case in theBrown and WSJ corpora, the entire availabledata was used.
This data was coded for severalproperties: Transitive/Intransitive"Active/Passive" and whether the exampleinvolved the major sense of the verb or not.The BNC data was ceded entirely by hand,while the Brown and WSJ was hand coded aftera first pass of subcategorization labelling via atgrep search siring algorithm.
The same coderlabelled the data for all three corpora for anygiven verb, in order to reduce any problems inintercoder rehability.adjust, advance, appoint, arrest, break, burst,carve, crack, crumble, dance, design,dissolve, distract, disturb, drop, elect,encourage, entertain, excite, fight., float,flood, fly, frighten, glide, grow, hang, harden,heat, hurry, impress, jump, kick, knit, lean,leap, lecture,, locate, march, melt, merge,mutate, offend, play, pour, race, relax, rise,rotate, rush, sail shut, soften, spill, stand,study, surrender, tempt, terrify, type, walk,wandex, wash, watchTable 1- 64 verbs chosen for analysis2 Verb FrequencyBecause word frequency is known to vary withcorpus genre, we used the frequency differencesfor our target verbs as a measure of corpusdifference.
We would expect factors such ascorpus genre (Business for WSJ vs. mixed forBNC and Brown), American vs. British English,and the era the corpus sample was taken in toinfluence word frequency.We calculated the frequencies tbr each verb, andused Chi Square to test whether the difference infrequency was significant for each corpuspairing.
We then counted the number of verbsthat showed a significant difference using p =0.05 as a cut-off poim: This result is shown inTable 2.
Although there were verbs that had asignificant difference in distribution between thetwo mixed genre corpora (BNC, Brown), therewere more differences in word frequencybetween the general corpora and the businesscorpus.
The difference between theBNC/Brown comparison and the BNC andBrown vs. WSJ comparison is significant (ChiSquare, p < .01).BNC vs Brown BNC vs WSJ  Brown vs WSJ30/64 46/64 46/64Table 2 - Number of verbs showing a significantdifference in frequency between corpora.Table 3 shows the list of words that weresignificantly more frequent in both of thegeneral corpora than they were in the businessoriented corpus.
Notice that most of the verbsdescribe leisure activities.amuse, boil, burst, dance, dL~turb, entertain,frighten, bang, harden, hurry', impress, knit,lean, paint, play, race, sail, stand, tempt,walk, wander, wash, watchTable 3 - Verbs which BNC and Brown bothhave more of than WSJ:Alternatively, when one looks at the words thathad a significantly higher frequency in the WSJcorpus than in either of the other corpora (Table4), one finds predominately verbs that candescribe stock price changes and businesstransactions.adjust, advance, crumble, drop, elect, fall,grow, jump, merge, quote, rise, shrink, shut,slip,,,Table 4 - Verbs which WSJ has more of thanboth Brown and WSJ:We are currently examining the nature of thedifferences between the British and Americancorpora.3 Subcategorization Frequency3.1 Methodology:For the second experiment, we coded theexamples of the 64 verbs from each of the threecorpora for transitivity.
We counted any usewith a direct object as transitive, and any otheruse, such as with a prepositional phrase, asintransitive.
Passive uses were also included inthe transitive category.
Examples ( 1 ) and ( 2 )illustrate intransitive uses, example ( 3 )illustrates transitive (and active) while examples( 4 ) and ( 5 ) illustrate transitive (and passive)uses of the verb 'race'.
( 1 ) Pretax profits 6r_o.p.Imd by 37 million.
( 2 ) Something dropped to the floor.
( 3 ) Lift them from the elbows, and thendrop them down to the floor.
( 4 ) Plans for an OSF binary interface havebeen dropped.
( 5 ) It was ... the tinsel paper dropped bybombers.Roland and Jurafsky (2000 in press) showed thatverb sense can affect verb subcategofization.We therefore controlled for verb sense by onlyincluding sentences from the majority sense ofthe verb in our counts.
For example, we didnot include instances of drop which were phrasalverbs with distinct senses like "drop in" or "dropoff".
We did however, include metaphoricalextensions of the main sense, such as a company"dropping a product line".
We thus used abroadly defined notion of sense rather than themore narrowly defined word senses used insome on-line word sense resources such asWordnet.
This was partly for logistic reasons,since such fine-grained senses are very hard tocode, and partially because we suspected thatvery narrowly defined senses frequently haveonly one possible subcategorization.
Codingfor such senses would have thus biased ourexperiment s rongly toward finding a strong linkbetween sense and subeategorization-bias.30We calculated transitivity biases for each of the64 verbs in each of the three corpora.
Weclassed the verbs as high transitivity if more than2/3 of the tokens of the major sense weretransitive, low transitivity if more than 2/3 of thetokens of the major sense were intransitive, andas mixed otherwise.
We removed fromconsideration any token of the verb which wasnot used in its major sense.
Ifsubcategorization biases are related to verbsense, we would expect he transitivity biases tobe stable across corpora once secondary sensesare removed from consideration.3.2 Results:Nine of the 64 verbs, shown in Table 5, had asignificant shift in transitivity bias.
Theseverbs had a different high/mixed/low transitivitybias in at least one of the three corpora.VerbiadvancecrackBNCtransitivitymixed(48%)Browntransitivitymixed(55%)WSJtransitivitylow(19%)mixed mixed high(58%) (58%) (86%)fight low mixed high(29%) (49%) (64%)float low low mixed(22 %) (11%) (44%)flood mixed(52%)relax low(27%)softenhigh(100%)high(\]00%)low mixed(30%) (65%)high(71%)high(70%)mixed(43%)study high mixed high(84%) (39%) (92%)surrenderTable 5 -mixed(48%)mixed(39%)high(73%)Transitivity bias in each corpus3.3 Discussion:In general, these shifts in transitivity were aresult of the verbs having differences in sensebetween the corpora such that the senses haddifferent subcategorizations, but were stillwithin our broadly defined 'main sense' for thatverb.For seven out of the nine verbs, the shifts intransitivity are a result of differences betweenthe WSJ data and the other data, which are aresult of the WSJ being biased towardsbusiness-specifie uses of these verbs.
Forexample, in the BNC and Brown data, 'advance'is a mixture of transitive and intransitive uses,shown in ( 6 ) and ( 7 ), while intransitive shareprice changes ( 8 ) dominated in the WSJ data.
( 6 ) BNC intransitive: In films, theyadvance in droves of armour across openfields ...( 7 ) BNC transitive: We have advanced~'moral careers" as another useful concept ._( 8 ) WSJ intransitive: Of the 4,345 stocksthat T changed hands, 1,174 declined and1,040 advanced.
'Crack' is used to mean 'make a sound' ( 9 ) or'break' ( 10 ) in the Brown and BNC data (bothof which have transitive and intransitive uses),while it is more likely to be used to mean 'enteror dominate a group/market' ( transitive use) inthe WSJ data; ( 11 ) and ( 12 ).
( 9 ) Brown intransitive: A carbine crackedmore loudly ,..( 10 ) Brown intransitive: Use well-wedgedclay, free of air bubbles and pliable enough tobend without cracking.
( 11 ) WSJ transitive: But the outsidershaven't yet been able to crack Saatchi's clubbyinner circle, or to have significant influence oncompany strategy.
( 12 ) WSJ transitive: ... big investments in"domestic" industries uch as beer will makeit even tougher for foreign competitors tocrack the Japanese market.
'Float' is generally used as an intransitive verb( 13 ), but nmst be used transitively when usedin a financial sense ( 14 ).
( 13 ) Brown i~:ransitive: The ball floateddownstream.
( 14 ) WSJ transitive: B.A.T aims to ... floatits big paper and British retailing businessesvia share issues to existing holders.=11'Relax' is generally used intransitively ( 15 ),but is used transitively in the WSJ data whendiscussing the relaxation of rules and credit(16).
( 15 ) BNC intransitive: The moment Josephstepped out onto the terrace the worried facesof Tran Van Hien and his wife relaxed withrelief.
( 16 ) WSJ transitive: Ford is willing to bidfor 100% of Jaguar's hares if both thegovernment and Jaguar shareholders agree torelax the anti-takeover barrier prematurely.
'Soften" is generally used transitively ( 17 ), butis used intransitively in the WSJ data whendiscussing the softening of prices ( 18 ) and(19).
( 17 ) Brown transitive: Hardy would notallow sentiment to soften his sense of theirredeemable pastness of the past, and theeternal deadness of the dead.
( 18 ) WSJ intransitive: A spokesman forScott says that assuming the price of pulpcontinues to soften, "We should do well.
"( 19 ) WSJ intransitive: The stock has sincesoftened, trading around $25 a share last weekand closing yesterday at$2.3.00 in nationalover-the-counter trading.
'Surrender' is used both transitively ( 20 ) andintransitively ( 21 ), but must be usedtransitively when discussing the surrender ofparticular items uch as 'stocks' ( 22 ) and ( 23 ).
( 20 ) BNC transitive: In 1475 Stanleysurrendered his share to the crown...( 21 ) Brown intransitive: ... the defenders,to save bloodshed, surrendered under thepromise that they would be treated asneighbors( 22 ) WSJ transitive: Holders can...surrender their shares at the per-share price of$1,000, plus accumulated dividends of $6.71 ashare.
( 23 ) WSJ transitive: ... Nelson Peltz andPeter W. May surrendered warrants andpreferred stock in exchange for a larger stakein Avery's common shares.The verb 'fight" is the only verb that has adifferent ransitivity bias in each of the threecorpora; with all other verbs, at least twocorpora share the same bias.
In the WSJ, fighttends to be used transitivdy, describing actionagainst a specific entity or concept ( 24 ).
Inthe other two corpora, there are moredescriptions of actions for or against moreabstract concepts ( 25 ) and ( 26 ).
In addition,the WSJ differences may further be influencedby a journalistic style practice of dropping thepreposition 'against' in the phrase 'fightagainst'.
( 24 ) WSJ lrarlsifive: Los Angeles CountySupervisor Kenneth Hahn yesterday vowed tofight the introduction of double-decking in thearea.
( 25 ) BNC intransitive: He fought againstthe United Nations troops in the attemptedKatangese secession of nineteen sixty to sixty-two.
( 26 ) Brown intransitive: But he would fightfor his own liberty rather than for any abstractprinciple connected with it -- such as "cause".The verb 'study' is generally transitive ( 27 ),except in the Brown data, where study isfrequently used with a prepositional phrase( 28 ) or to generically describe the act ofstudying ( 29 ).
We are currently investigatingwhat might be causing this difference; possiblecandidates include language change (sinceBrown is much older than BNC and WSJ),British-American differences, or micro-sensedifferences.
( 27 ) BNC transitive: A much more usefuland realistic approach is to study recordings ofdifferent speakers' natural, spontaneous ...( 28 ) Brown intransitive: Inaddition, Dr.Clark has studied at Rhode Island StateCollege and Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology.
( 29 ) Brown intransitive: She discussed inher letters to Winslow some of the questionsthat came to her as she studied alone.The verb 'flood" is used intransitively moreoften in the BNC than in the other corpora.The Brown and WSJ uses tend to be transitivenon-weather uses of the verb flood ( 30 ) and32( 31 ), while the BNC uses include more weatheruses, which are more likely to be intransitive( 32 ).
We are investigating whether this is aresult of the BNC discussing weather more often,or a result of which particular grammaticalstructures are used to describe the weatherfloods in British and American English.
( 30 ) WSJ transitive: Lawsuits over theharm caused by DES have flooded federal andstate courts in the past decade.
( 31 ) Brown transitive: The terrible visionof the ghetto streets flooded his mind.
( 32 ) BNC intransitive: ,.. should the riverflood, as he'd observed it did after heavy rain,the house was safe upon its hill.ConclusionThe goal of the work performed in this paperwas to find a stable set of transitivity biases for64 verbs to provide norming data forpsychological experiments.The first result is that 55 out of 64 single senseverbs analyzed id not change in transitivity biasacross corpora.
This suggests that for our goalof providing transitivity biases for single senseverbs, the influence of American vs. BritishEnglish and broad based vs. narrow corpora maynot be large.
We would, however, expectlarger cross corpus differences for verbs that aremore polysemous than our particular set ofverbs.The second result is that for the 9 out of 64 verbsthat did change in transitivity bias, the shift intransitivity bias was largely a result of subtleshifts in verb sense between the genres presentin each corpus.
These two results suggest thatwhen verb sense is adequately controlled for,verbs have stable suboategorization probabilitiesacross corpora.One possible future application of our work isthat it might be possible to use verb frequenciesand subeategodzafion probabilities of multi-sense verbs can be used to measure the degree ofdifference between corpora.AcknowledgementsThis project was partially supported by NSFBCS-9818827 and IRI-9618838.
Many thanksto the three anonymous reviewers.ReferencesBiber, D. (1988) Variation across speech andwriting.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Biber, D. (1993) Using Register-DiversO$edCorpora for General Language Studies.Computational Linguistics, 19(2), 219-241.Biber, D, Conrad, S., & Reppen, R. (1998)Corpus Linguistics.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.Boland, J.
(1997).
Resolving syntactic categoryambiguities in discourse context: probabilistic anddiscourse constraints.
Journal of Memory andLanguage 36, 588-615.Carrol, J., Minnen, G., & Briscoc, T. (1998).
Cansubcategorizafion probabilities help a statisticalparser?
In Proceedings of the 6 ~ ACL/SIGDATWorkshop on Very Large Corpora, Montreal,Canada.Charniak, E. (1997).
Statistical parsing with acontext-free grammar and word statistics.
InAAAI-97, Menlo Park.
AAAI Press.Clifton, C., Prazier, L., & Connine, C. (1984)Lexical expectations in sentence comprehension.Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior,23, 696-708.Collins, M. J.
(1996) A new statistical parser basedon bigram lexical dependencies.
In Proceedings ofACL-96, 184---191, Santa Cruz, CA.Collins, M. J.
(1997) Three generative, iexicalisedmodels for statistical parsing.
In Proceedings ofACL-97.Ferreira, F., and McClure, K.K.
(1997).
Parsingof Garden-path Sentences with Reciprocal Verbs.Language and Cognitive Processes 12, 273-306.Fodor, J.
(1978).
Parsing strategies andconstraints on traraformations.
LinguisticInquiry, 9, 427-473.Garnsey, S. M., Pearlmutter, N. J., Myers, E. &Lotocky, M. A.
(1997).
The contributions ofverb bias and p!a_u~ibility o the comprehension ftemporarily ambiguous sentences.
Journal ofMemory and Language 37, 58-93.Gibson, E., Sehatze, C., & Salmon, A.
(1996).The relationship between the frequency and theprocessing complexity of linguistic structure.Journal of Psycholinguistic Rese,~ch 25(1), 59-92.Joshi, A.
& B. Sfinivas.
(1994) Disambiguation ofsuper parts of speech (or supertags): almostparsing.
Proceedings of COLING '94.RRJurafsky, D. (1996) A probabilistic model oflexical and syntactic access cmd disambiguazion.Cognitive Science, 20, 137-194.Kim A, Srinivas B and T~aeswell J (1997).Incremental Processing Using Lexicalized Tree-Adjoining Grammar: Symbolic' and ConnectionistApproaches, Conference (m ComputationalPsycholinguistics, Berkeley, California, August1997.MacDonald, M. C. (1994) Probabilisticconstraints and syntactic ambiguity resolution.Language and Cognitive Processes 9, 157-201.Marcus, M.P., Santorini, B.
& Marcinkiewicz, M.A..(1993) Building a Large Atmotated Corpus ofEnglish: The Penn Treebank.
ComputationalLinguistics 19.2:313-330.Merlo, P. (1994).
A Corpus-Based Analysis of VerbContinuation Frequencies for $~ntactic Processing.Journal of Pyscholinguistic Research 23.6:435-457.Mitchcll, D. C. and V. M. Holmes.
(1985)The role of specific information about the verb inparsing sentences with local structural ambiguity.Journal of Memory and Language 24, 542-559.Roland, Douglas and Daniel Jurafsky.
(2000 in press).Verb sense and verb subcategofization probabilities.In Paola Merlo and Suzarme Stevenson (Eds.)
JohnBcnjamins.Roland, Douglas and Daniel Jmafskky.
(1998).
Howverb subcatcgorization frequencies are affected bycorpus choice.
Proceedings of COLING-ACL 1998.p 1117-1121.Roland, D. and Jurafsky, D. (1997) Computingverbal valence frequencies: corpora versusnorm/ng studies.
Poster session presented at theCUNY sentence processing conference, SantaMonica, CA.Stolcke, A., C. Chelba, D. Engle, V. Jimenez, L.Mangu, H. Printz, E. Ristad, R. Rosenfeld, D. Wu,F.
Jelinck and S. Khudanpur.
(1997) DependencyLanguage Modeling.
Cen~r for Language andSpeech Processing Research Note No.
24.
JohnsHopkins University, Baltimore.Tanenhans, M. K., Garnsey, S. M., & Boland, J.(1990).
Combinatory lexical information andlanguage comprehension.
In Altmann, Gerry T.M.
(Ed); et al Cognitive models of speechprocessing: Psycholinguistic and computationalperspectives.
Cambridge, MA, USA: Mit Press.Trueswell, J., M. Tanenhaus and C. Kello.
(1993)Verb.Specific Constraint~ in Sentence Processing:Separating Effects of Lexical Preference fromGarden-Paths.
Journal of ExperimentalPsychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition19.3, 528-55334
