A Common Theory of Information Fusionfrom Multiple Text SourcesStep One: Cross-Document StructureDragomir R. Radev550 E. University St.University of MichiganAnn Arbor, MI 48109radev@umi ch.
eduAbst ractWe introduce CST (cross-documentslructure theory), a paradigm for multi-document analysis.
CST takes into aceountthe rhetorical structure o f  clusters of relatedtextual documents.
We present a taxonomyof cross-document relationships.
We arguethat CST can be the basis for multi-document summarization guided by userpreferences for summary length, informationprovenance, cross-source agreement, andchronological ordering of  facts.1 Int roduct ionThe Topic Detection and Tracking model (TDT)\[Allan et al 98\] describes news events as theyare reflected in news sources.
First, manysources write on the same event and, second, thesame source typically produces a number ofaccounts of  the event over a period of  time.Sixteen news stories related to the same eventfrom six news sources over a two-hour timeperiod are represented in Figure 1.- i  II II I_ I !
I I,_1  I I_ I II1!
I i06:30 06:45 07:00 07:15 07:30 07:45 08:00 08:15 08:30Figure 1 : Time distribution of related documentsfrom multiple sourcesA careful analysis of related news articles howsthat they exhibit some interesting properties\[Radev & McKeown 98\].
In some cases,different sourees agree with each other, at othertimes, the information presented in them iscontradictory.
The same source sometimes addsnew information as it becomes available andputs it in the context of  what has already beendiscussed earlier.
In other eases, to get a fullpicture of  an event, one has to read stories frommultiple sources as neither of  them presents allrelevant information.
All these examples pointto the existence of  cross-document structure thatis waiting to be exploited.Figure 2 illustrates how the same story can betold in several different ways.
The six extractsare from news stories about the same event: thedeclaration by Bill Clinton at a press conferencethat millions of  dollars will be handed out to lowincome people affected by recent surges in oilpFices.In this paper we introduce CST, a theory ofcross-document s ructure.
CST assigns labels74such as subsumption, update, and elaboration tocross-document conceptual links.
We argue thatCST is essential for the analysis ofcontradiction, redundancy, and complementarityin related documents and for multi-documentsummarization (MDS).FoxNews: President Clinton announced Wednesday he will release funds to help New Englanders through theheating oil "crisis" and spoke on topics ranging from gun violence to his personal life and foreign policy.The president said he ordered the release of $125 million from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program tohelp families who must rely on oil to heat heir homes.
He said that amount was all that is left in the fund this year.ABCN~s:  President Clinton today ordered the release of  millions of dollars in assistance for Northeastern familiesstruggling with soaring fuel costs, saying Americans have together to help their fellow citizens in times of need.The release of $120 million from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program is to help families who mustrely on oil to heat heir homes, he said ...CNN: Citing rising energy costs, President Clinton said Wednesday he is releasing $120 million in funds to helpfamilies buy home heating oil in the mid-Atlantic and northeastern states.The president said lie decided the help was needed heeause steadily rising oil prices have slammed consumersdependent on home heating oil and have boosted the cost of,gasoline.MSNBC: AT A WASHINGTON, D.C. news conference, Clinton announced that he had ordered the release of theremainder of federal heating assistance money to help families in the Northeast hit hard by this year's cold weatherand the soaring cost of  home heating oil.Clinton said lie ordered the release of $125 million from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program to helpfamilies who must rely on oil to heat heir homes.
He said that amount was all that is left in the fund this year.USA Today: President Clinton, saying too many families are being hurt by the soaring cost of heating their homes,announced Wednesday he will ask Congress for $600 million in emergency assistance tohelp people meet heatingoil costs.
He also released an additional $125 million for more immediate help to low-income families.NY Times: WASHINGTON, Feb. 16 - President Clinton ordered the release today of another $125 million ingovernment aid to help needy families pay the soaring costs of heating their homes this winter.The release, announced by Mr. Clinton at the start of a White House news conference this afternoon, comes only sixdays after the government made $130 million in home-heating aid available.Figure 2: Six different accounts of the same event2 Related Work2.1 Document structureRhetorical Structure Theory (RST) \[Mann &Thompson 88, Mann 00\] is a comprehensivetheory of text organization.
It is based on "textcoherence", orthe presence in "earefuUy writtentext" of unity that would not appear in randomsequences ofsentences.
RST posits the existenceof relations among sentences.
Most relationsconsist of one or more nuclei (the centralcomponents of a rhetorical relation) and zero ormore satellites (the supporting components ofthe relation).
An example of an RST relation isevidence which is decomposed into a nuelens (aclaim) and a satellite (text that supports theclaim).
RST is intentionally limited to singledocuments.
With CST, we attempt to describethe rhetorical structure of sets of relateddocuments.
Unlike RST, CST cannot rely on thedeliberateness of writing style.
We can howevermake use of some observations of structureacross documents which, while clearly notdeliberate in the RST sense, can be quitepredictable and useful.
In a sense, CSTassociates a certain behavior to a "collectivedocument author" (that is, the collectivity of allauthors of the related ocuments).A pioneering study in the typology of linksamong documents i described in \[Trigg 83,Trigg & Weiser 87\].
Trigg introduces ataxonomy of link types across cientific papers.The 80 suggested link types such as citation,refutation, revision, equivalence, andcomparison are grouped in two categories:Normal (inter-document li ks) and Commentary(deliberate cross-document links).
While thetaxonomy is quite exhaustive, it is by no meansappropriate or intended for general domain texts(that is, other than scientific articles).75A large deal of research in the automaticinduction of document and hyperdocumentstructure is due to Salton's group at Cornell\[Salton et al 91\].
\[Allan 96\] presents a graphsimplification technique for "hyperlink typing",that is, assigning link types from Trigg's list tolinks between sentences or paragraphs of a pairof documents.
Allan tested his techniques onsets of very distinct articles (e.g.
"John F.Kennedy" and "United States of America" fromthe Funk and Wagnalls encyclopedia).
As theauthor himself admits, the evaluation in \[Allan96\] is very weak and doesn't indicate to anyextent whether the techniques actually achieveanything useful.More recently, \[Salton et al 97\] introduced atechnique for document structuring based onsemantic hyperlinks (among pairs of paragraphswhich are related by a lexieal similaritysignificantly higher than random).
The authorsrepresent single documents from the Funk andWagnalls encyclopedia on topics such asAbortion or Nuclear Weapons in the form of textrelationship maps.
These maps exploit thebushiness (or number of connecting edges) of aparagraph to decide whether to include it in asummary of the entire article.
The assumptionunderlying their technique isthat bushypaths (orpaths connecting highly connected paragraphs)are more likely to contain information central tothe topic of the article.
The summarizationtechniques described in Salton et al's researchare limited to single documents.One of the goals of CST is to extend thetechniques set forth in Trigg, Salton, and Allan'swork to cover sets of related documents inarbitrary domains.2.2 Multi-document summarizationSUMMONS \[Radev & McKeown 98\] is aknowledge-based multi-documentsummarization system, which producessummaries of a small number of news articleswithin the domain of terrorism.
SUMMONSuses as input a set of semantic templatesextracted by a message understanding system\[Fisher et al 96\] and identifies ome patterns inthem such as chang e of perspective,contradiction, refinement, agreement, andelaboration.
The techniques used in SUMMONSinvolved a large amount of knowledgeengineering even for a relatively small domainof text (such as accounts of terrorist events) andis not directly suitable for domain-independenttext analysis.
The planning operators used in itpresent, however, the ideal first step towardsCST.\[Mani & Bloedorn 99\] use similarities anddifferences among related news articles forMDS.
They measure the effectiveness of theirmethod in two scenarios: paragraph ahgnmentacross two articles and query-based informationretrieval.
None of these scenarios evaluates thegeneration of query-independent summaries ofmultiple articles in open domains.The Stimulate projects at Columbia University\[Barzflay & al.
99\], \[McKeown & al.
99\] havebeen using natural language generation toproduce multi-document summaries.
Theirtechnique iscalled theme intersection: paragraphalignment across news stories with the help of asemantic network to identify phrases whichconvey the same meaning and then generate newsentences from each theme and order themchronologically toproduce a summary.We should note here that RST has been used toproduce single-document summaries \[Marcu97\].
For multi-document summaries, CST canpresent areasonable equivalent to RST.2_3 Time-dependent documentsTime-dependent documents are related to theobservation that perception of an event changesover time and include (a) evolving summaries(summaries of new documents related to anongoing event that are presented to the userassuming that he or she has read earliersummaries of related documents) \[Radev 99\]and (b) chronological briefings \[Radev &McKeown 98\].
\[Carbonell et al 98\] discuss themotivation behind the use of time-dependentdocuments and \[Berger & Miller 98\] describe alanguage model for time-dependent corpora.763 Representing cross-documentstructureWe will introduce two complementary datastructures to represent multi-document clusters:the multi-document cube (Section 0) and themulti-document graph (Section 0).3.1 Multi-document cubesDefinition A multi-document cube C (see Figure3 (a)) is a three dimensional structure thatrepresents related documents.
The threedimensions are t (time), s (source) and p(position within the document).Def'mition A document unit U is a tuple (t,s,p) -see Figure 3 (b).
Document units can be definedat different levels of granularity, e.g.,paragraphs, entences, or words.Definition A document D is a sequence ofdocument units U1U2... Un which corresponds toa one-dimensional projection of a multi-document cube along the source and timedimensions.Some additional concepts can be defined basedon the above definitions.Definition A snapshot is a slice of the multi-document cube over a period of time At - seeFigure 3 (c).Definition An evolving document is a slice ofthe multi-document cube in which the source isfixed and time and position may vary.Definition An extractive summary S of a cube Cis a set of  document units, S c C, see Figure 3(d).Definition A summarization operatortransforms a cube C into a summary S.(a) Co)(c) (d)Figure 3: (a) A multi-document cube, (b) A document unit, (c) A cube slice, (d) An extractedsummary3.2 Multi-document graphsWhile multi-document cubes are a usefulabstraction, they cannot easily represent extsimultaneously at different levels of granularity(words, phrases, sentences, paragraphs, anddocuments).
The second formalism that weintroduce is the multi-document graph.
Eachgraph consists of smaller subgraphs for eachindividual document (Figure 4).
We use twotypes of links.
The first type representsinheritance r lationships among elements withina single document.
These links are drawn usingthicker lines.
The second type representssemantic relationships among textual units.
Theexample illustrates sample links amongdocuments, phrases, sentences, and phrases.774 A taxonomy of cross-documentrelationships(W), phrases (P), sentences orparagraphs (S), orentire documents (D).
The examples are fromour MDS corpus (built from TDT and Web-based sources).Figure 5 presents a proposed, taxonomy of cross-document relationships.
The Level columnindicates whether the relation applies to words?
f ?
sssJ" " " " "  x " link cross-sent~ exiti !
, /i I / I  !
/ ; word l ink _ - .
, , v ,  ~ ,, !
\.- % !, j,, ...-" it .
.
.
.
I I\ 11- .
.
.
.  "
~  .
.
.
.
- \~ , / '  wo~i~d~..,..~ _../..~ i Paragraph/semence level#123456789101112Figure 4: SampleRelationship type LevelIdentity AnyEquivalence (paraphrasing) S, DTranslation P, SSubsumption S, DContradiction S, DHistorical background SCross-reference PCitation S, DModality SAttribution SSummary S, DFollow-up Smulti-document graphDescriptionThe same text appears in more than one locationTwo text spans have the same information contentSame information content in different languagesOne sentence contains more information than anotherConflicting informationInformation that puts current information i contextThe same entity is mentionedOne sentence cites another documentQualified version of a sentenceOne sentence r peats the information of another whileadding an attributionSimilar to Summary in RST: one textual unit summarizesanotherAdditional information which reflects facts that havehappened since the last account78131415161718192021222324ElaborationIndirect speechRefinementAgreement SJudgment SFulfilment SDescription SReader profde SContrast SParallel SGeneralization SChange of perspective S, DAdditional information that wasn't included in the lastaccountShiR from direct o indirect speech or vice-versaAdditional information that is more specific that the onepreviously includedOne source expresses agreement with another,A qualified account of  a factA prediction turned trueInsertion of  a descriptionStyle and background-specific changeContrasting two accounts or factsComparing two accounts of  factsGeneralizationThe same source presents a fact in a different lightFigure 5: Sample types of edges (relationships between textual spans)One example of a cross-document relationship isthe cross-sentence informational subsumption(CSIS, or subsumption), which reflects thatcertain sentences repeat some of  the informationpresent in other sentences and may, undercertain circumstances, be omitted duringsummarization.
In the following example,sentence (2) subsumes (1) because the crucialinformation in (1) is also included in (2) whichpresents additional content: "the court", "lastAugust", and "sentenced him to life".
(1) John Doe was found guilty of the murder.
(2) The court found John Doe guilty of themurder of Jane Doe last August andsentenced him to life.e.g., by referring to a person arrested at a crimescene as an "alleged" or "suspected" perpetrator.
(5) Adams reportedly called for an emergencymeeting with Trirnblc to lry to salvage theassembly.
(6) Sirra Fein leader Gerry Adams appealed foran urgent meeting with Trimble.
(7) The GIA is the most hardline of the Islamicmilitant groups which have fought heAlgerian authorities since 1992.
(8) The GIA is seen as most hardline of theIslamic militant groups which have fought heAlgerian government during the past sevenyears.Paraphrase(3) Ford's program will be launched in theUnited States in April and globally within12 months.
(4) Ford plans to introduce the program first forits employees inthe United States, thenexpand it for workers abroad.ModalityNew stories are often written in a way  thatmakes misattributions of information difficult,Attribution(9) In the strongest ign yet that Russia's era ofspace glo~ is coming to an end, spaceofficials announced today that cosmonautswill leave the Mir space station in August andit will remain unmanned.
(I O) The crew aboard the Mir space station willleave in August, and the craft will orbit theEarth unmanned until early next year.Indirect Speech79(I 1) An anonymous caller told the Interfax newsagency that the Moscow explosion and aSaturday night bomb blast in southern Russiawere in response to Russia's militarycampaign against Islamic, rebels in thesouthern territory of Dagestan.
(12) An anonymous caller to Interfax said theblast and a car-bomb earlier this week at amilitary apartment building in Dagestan were"our response to the bombing of villages inChechnya and Dagestan.
"Followup(13) Denmark's largest industrial unions haverejected awage proposal, setting the stage fora nationwide general strike, officialsannounced Friday.
(14) A national strike entered its second weekMonday, paralyzing Denmark's main airportand leaving most gasoline stations out of fueland groceries short of frozen and cannedfoods.Judgment(15) Hardline militants of A\]geria's ArmedIslamic Group (GIA) threatened Sunday tocreate a "bloodbath" in Belgium if theauthorities there do not release several of itsleaders jailed last month.
(16) The GIA is demanding that Belgiumrelease several of its leaders jailed in Belgiumlast month.Fulfillment(17) WASHINGTON, May 31 The FederalBureau of Investigation plans to putsuspected terrorist Osarna bin Laden, soughtin connection with the bombings of the USembassy bombings in Afr/ea, on its "TenMost Wanted" list, CNN reported Saturday.
(18) WASHINGTON, June 7 The FederalBureau of Investigation added Saudi fugitiveOsama Bin Laden, sought for his part in the1998 bombings of US embassies inAfrica, toits "Ten Most Wanted List" Monday.Elaboration(19) Fugitive Saudi national bin Laden isbelieved to be the mastermind behind lastyear's bloody attacks against US embassies inKenya and Tanzania.
(20) Bin Laden, 41, is believed to be themastermind behind last year's bloody attacksagainst US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.Update(21) The confirmed eath toll has already reached49, while over 50 people are still unaccountedfor, many presumed dead and buried in theruins.
(22) The con.firmed eath toll has already reached60, and another 40 people are still unaccountedfor, most presumed dead and buried in theruins.Definition(23) Yeltsin said the security forces must unite tofight terrorists, adding that he had appointedInterior Minister Vladimir Rushailo to heada special tea m coordinating anti-terroristactivities.
(24) Yeltsin said the security forces must unite tofight terrorists, adding that he had namedRushailo to head a special team coordinatinganti-terrorist activities.Contrast(25) Agriculture Minister Loyola de Palacioestimated the loss at dlrs 10 million.
(26) Agriculture Minister Loyola de Palacio hasestimated losses from mined produce at 1.5billion pesetas (dlrs 10 million), althoughfarmers groups earlier claimed total damagesof nearly eight imes that amount.Historical background(27) Elian's mother and 10 others died when theirboat sank as they tried to reach the UnitedStates from Cuba.5 Using CST for information fusionIn this section we describe how CST can be usedto generate personalized multi-documentsummaries from clusters of related articles infour steps: ehstering, document structureanalysis, link analysis, and personalized graph-based summarization (Figure 6).The first stage, clustering, can be either query-independent (e.g., based on pure document80similarity [Allan et al 98]) or based on a userquery (in which case clusters will be the sets ofdocuments returned by a search engine).The second stage, document analysis, includesthe generation of  document trees representingthe sentential and phrasal structure of thedocument [Hearst 94, Kan et al 98].
: \4.
Stnnmar izat ionFigure 6: Processing stagesG ~///\\DOC2_ JFigure 7: Summarization using graph cover operatorsThe third stage is the automatic creation andtyping of links among textual spans acrossdocuments.
Four techniques for identifyingrelated textual units across documents can beused: lexical distance, lexical chains,information extraction, and linguistic templatematching.
Lexical distance (see e.g., [Allan96]) uses cosine similarity across pairs ofsentences.
Lexieal chains [Barzilay & Elhadad97] are more robust than lexical matching asthey take into account linguistic phenomenasuch as synonymy and hypernymy.
The thirdtechnique, information extraction [Radev &McKeown 98] identifies alient semantic rolesin text (e.g., the place, perpetrator, and effectof a terrorist event) and converts them tosemantic templates.
Two textual units areconsidered related whenever their semantictemplates are related.
Finally, a technique thatwill be used to identify some relationshipssuch as citation, contradiction, and attributionis template matching which takes into accounttransformational grammar (e.g., relative clauseinsertion).
For link type analysis, machinelearning using lexieal metrics and cue words ismost appropriate (see [Kupiec et al 95],[Cohen & Singer 96]).81The final step is summary extraction, based onthe user-specified constraints on thesummarizer.
A graph-based operator defines atransformation on a multi-document graph(MDG) G which preserves some of itsproperties while reducing the number ofnodes.
An example of such an operator is thelink-preserving graph cover operator (Figure7).
Its effect is to preserve only these nodesfrom the source MDG that are associated withthe preferred cross-document links.
In theexample, the shaded area represents thesummary subgraph G" of G that contains allfour cross-document links and only thesenodes and edges of G which are necessary topreserve the textual structure of G'.Sumzo~ 1The ~th~ of Elian Gotmd~ arrived Thmtdayin the United State* saying he w~ated U.S.authorities to hand over his r.~ as soon asp~s~l?
: ,~o be could hug ~ nnd take hknback to Cuba.TMt* ctb~s whe w~ gnmted visat to mtvedto the United Stats with the Gomml~ family -Elinn~ pediauieiaaa, l nded'Urn teadaer and amale cousin -- wen not oil the pfalae.Summary 2The father of ~ Gcn~alez m-bred Thursdayin the United States saying he vamtod U~.audaotltles to hand owe his son a~ soon asp~ss~le so he could hug Elian and take himback to Cuba.Three eche*s whe were g~mted vlsas to travel tothe United States wilh the Gonzalez f~uqy -Eliia~ pediatrician, kindel.gartel~ ~ and amale cousin - were not on the plane.The U,S.
govermmmt proved itself iatramigentOn April $, on the issue of the vlsas l ~  byCuba fev a delegation composed of childn~,~ton  saxl p~holo~..~ts that wou~acc~ml~my EliZa's father to that eoutm3, toreceive custody of the child, reportsPmasa Lamina from Washington.The child's motha" aud I0 othea's were Idlledwhim the boat sank 8s tl~y tfiod to flee Cuba forthe United States.
Elima and two adohe sa~vlved.
(a) (b)Figure 8: Two summaries from the5.1 ExampleThe example in Figure 8 shows twosummaries based on different user preferences.Summary (b) is based on "longer extract","report background information", and "includeall sources".
Summary (a) is generated fromtwo CNN articles, while (b) is generated fromtwo CNN articles plus one ffirom the Gramna ofHavana, and one from ABC News.6 Ongoing work and conclusion6.1 Ongoing workWe are in the process of performing a userstudy to collect interagreement data amongjudges who are asked to label cross-documentrhetorical relations.We are also currently building a system forautomatic identification of relationships indocument clusters as well as a library ofsummarization perators.
User preferrenees areused to constrain the summarizers.
Forexample, a user may prefer that in the event ofsame set of input documentscontradiction, both sources of informationshould be represented in the summary.Another user may have preferences for a givensource over all others and choose an operatorwhich will only reflect his preferred source.We will facilitate the user's navigation in thespace of all possible summarizers.
Byspecifying their preferences, users will buildtheir own summarizers and test them on acollection of documents and then refine themto fit their needs.6.2 ConclusionWe introduced a theory of cross-documentstructure based on inter-documentrelationships uch as paraphrase, citation,attribution, modality, and development.
Wepresented a taxonomy of cross-documentlinks.
We argued that a CST-based analysis ofrelated documents can facilitate multi-document summarization.82ReferencesJames Allan.
"Automatic hypertext link typing".Hypertext'96, The Seventh ACM Conference onHypertext, pages 42--52.James Allan, Jaime Carbonell, George Doddington,Jonathan Yaruron, and Yiming Yang, "Topicdetection and tracking pilot study: final report".Proceedings of the Broadcast NewsUnderstanding and Transcription Workshop,1998.Regina Barzilay and Michael Elhadad.
"UsingLexical Chains for Text Summarization".Proceedings of the ACL/EACL 97 Workshop onIntelligent Scalable Text Summarization.
Madrid,Spain, July 1997, Pages 10---17.Regina Barzilay, Kathleen McKeown, and MichaelElhadad.
"Information Fusion in the Context ofMulti-Document Summarization".
A CL "99.College Park, Maryland, June 1999.Adam Berger and Robert Miller.
"Just in TimeLanguage Modelling".
IEEE Conference onAcoustic, Speech and Signal Processing.
Seattle,WA.Jaime Carbonell and Jade Goldstein.
"The use ofMMR, diversity-based reranking for reorderingdocuments and producing summaries".Proceedings of ACM-SIGIR 98.
Melbourne,Australia, August 1998.Jairne Carbonell, Mark Craven, Steve Fienberg,Tom Mitchell, and Yiming Yang.
"Report on theCONALD Workshop on Learning from Text andthe Web", Pittsburgh, PA, June 1998.William Cohen and Yoram Singer.
"Context-sensitive learning methods for textcategorization".
Proceedings, 19th AnnualInternational ACM SIGIR Conference onResearch and Development in InformationRetrieval, Zurich, Switzerland, August 1996.Pages 307--315.David Fisher, Stephen Soderland, JosephMcCarthy, Fangfang Feng, and Wendy Lehnert.
"Description of the UMass System As Used forMUC-6".
Proceedings of the Sixth MessageUnderstanding Conference (MUC-6).
1995.Pages 221--236.Marti Hearst.
"Multi-Paragraph Segmentation ofExpository Text".
Proceedings of the 32 ~dAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics.
Las Cruces, NM,June 1994.Min-Yen Kan, Judith L. Klavans, and KathleenMeKeown.
"Linear segmentation and segmentrelevance".
Proceedings of 6 ~ InternationalWorkshop of Very Large Corpora (WVLC-6),pages 197--205, Montreal, Quebec, Canada,August 1998.Julian Kupiec, Jan Pedersen, and Francine Chen.
"A Trainable Document Summarizer".Proceedings, 18th Annual International ACMSIGIR Conference on Research and Developmentin Information Retrieval.
Seattle, WA, July 1995.Indexjjeet Mani and Eric Bloedom, "SummarizingSimilarities and Differences Among RelatedDocuments", Information Retrieval 1 (1-2),pages 35--67, June 1999.William Mann and Sandra Thompson.
"RhetoricalStructure Theory: Toward a functional theory oftext organization".
Text, 8(3).
243-281.William Mann.
Rhetorical Structure Theory WebSite.
http://www.sil.org/linguistics/RST/Daniel Marcu.
"From Discourse Structures to TextSummaries".
Proceedings of the ACL/EACLWorkshop on Intelligent Scalable TextSummarization, Madrid, Spain, July 1997.Kathleen McKeown, Judith Klavans, VasileiosHatzivassiloglou, Regina Barzilay, and EleazarEskin, "Towards Multidocument Summarizationby Reformulation: Progress and Prospects",Proceedings of AAA1"99, Orlando, FL, July1999.Dragomir R. Radev and Kathleen McKeown.
"Generating natural language summaries frommultiple on-line sources".
ComputationalLinguistics, 24 (3), pages 469--500, September1998.Dragomir R. Radev.
"Topic Shift Detection -finding new information in threaded news".Technical Report CUCS-026-99, ColumbiaUniversity Department of Computer Science.January 1999.Gerard Salton, Chris Buckley and James Allan.
"Automatic structuring of text files".
TechnicalReport TR 91-1241, Computer ScienceDepartment, Comell University, Ithaca, NY,1991.Cmard Salton, Amit Singhal, Mandar Mitra, ChrisBuckley.
"Automatic Text Structuring andSummarization".
Information Processing andManagement 33 (2), pages 193--207, 1997.Randall Trigg.
"A Network-Based Approach toText Handling for the Online ScientificCommunity".
Ph.D. Thesis.
Department ofComputer Science, University of Maryland.November 1983.Randall Trigg and Mark Weiser.
"TEXTNET: Anetwork-based approach to text handling".
ACMTransactions on Office Information Systems, 4(1), pages l J23,  January 1987.83
