An integrated framework for text planning and pronominalisationR0dger - 'K ibb le  and  R ichard  PowerITRIUniversity of BrightonBrighton BN2 4GJUK.Email: {Rodger.Kibble I Richard.Power}@itri.brighton.ac.ukAbst ractThis paper describes an implemented systemwhich uses centering theory for planning of co-herent exts and choice of referring expressions.We argue that text and sentence planning needto be driven in part by the goal of maintain-ing referential continuity and thereby facilitat-ing pronoun resolution: obtaining a favourableordering of clauses, and of arguments withinclauses, is likely to increase opportunities fornon-ambiguous pronoun use.
Centering theoryprovides the basis for such an integrated ap-proach.
Generating coherent texts according tocentering theory is treated as a constraint sat-isfaction problem.1 In t roduct ion1.1 Issues in pronoun generat ionThe appropriate r alisation of anaphoric expres-sions is a long-standing problem in NLG re-search.
However, as McCoy and Strube (1999)observe, few researchers have developed sophis-ticated algorithms for pronoun generation.
Atypical approach, exemplified by Dale (1993),Reiter and Dale (1997) is to pronominalise omedistinguished referent which was mentioned inthe previous sentence according to a domain-dependent criterion of prominence or salience.McCoy and Strube (op cir.)
offer a more com-plex algorithm based on the notion of "dis-course threads", for which they report an ac-curacy of 85% when tested against a corpusof naturally-occurring texts.
Their approachmakes some fundamental assumptions aboutdiscourse structure which appear to be beyondthe capabilities of current text and sentenceplanners and are incompatible with the widely-accepted notion of discourse structure as a treewith non-crossing branches (e.g., Mann andThompson 1987).We argue for an approach which integratesthe tasks of text planning and choice of referringexpression on the following grounds:o portabi l i ty:  this approach should be com-patible with any system that employs hi-erarchical text planning and certain basicgrammatical categories;o coherence:  we claim that text planningneeds to be driven in part by the goal ofmaintaining referential continuity: obtain-ing a favourable ordering of clauses, andof arguments within clauses, is likely toincrease opportunities for non-ambiguouspronoun use.The latter claim is not new, but underlies theCentering Theory (CT) of Grosz, Joshi and We-instein (1995, hereafter "GJW").1.2 Issues in Text PlanningText Planning is one of the distinct tasks iden-tified in Reiter's "consensus" architecture forNatural Language Generation (Reiter 1994, Re-iter and Dale 1997):Text P lann ing-  deciding the content of amessage, and organising the componentpropositions into a text tree;Sentence P lanning - aggregating proposi-tions into clausal units and choosing lex-ical items corresponding to concepts in theknowledge base;Linguistic real isation - surface details Suchas agreement, orthography etc.Following Scott and de Souza (1990), we as-sume that the component propositions to be re-alised in a text are organised in a tree structure77in which ternfinal nodes are elementary propo-sitions and non-terminal nodes represent dis-course relations as .detined by  e~g:,.
RhetoricalStructure Theory (RST, Mann and Thompson1987).
This structure only partially constrainsthe linear order in which the propositions willbe realised - -  in other words, any RST struc-ture specifies a range of possible text plans.
Wepropose as an additional constraint that thegenerator should seek to maximise continuityof reference as determined by centering theory,and we argue that- this enables us to select themost cohesive variants from a set of text plans.The RST tree itself is produced by an interac-tive knowledge base editor which allows a userto control both semantic ontent and rhetoricalstructure via a sequence of choices guided by anatural language interface.2 Reconst ruct ing  Center ing  for  NLG2.1 Center ing  in a nutshe l lThe main assumptions of Centering theory are:1.
For each utterance in a discourse there isprecisely one entity which is the centre of atten-tion or center.
The center in an utterance Un isthe most grammatically salient entity realisedin U~_i which is also realised in Un.
This isalso referred to as the backward-looking centeror Cb.
The notion of "salience" for the purposesof centering theory is most commonly definedaccording to a hierarchy of grammatical roles:SUBJECT > DIRECT OBJECT  > INDIRECT OB-JECT  ~> OTHERS (see e.g., Brennan et al1987)?For alternative approaches see e.g., (Strube andHahn 1999), (Walker et al1994).2.
There is a preference for consecutive ut-terances within a discourse segment o keep thesame entity as the center, and for the center tobe realised as Subject or preferred center (Cp).Kibble (1999) dubbed these principles cohe-sion and sal ience respectively.
Pairs of suc-cessive utterances (U,~, U~+i} are classified intothe transition types shown in Fig.
1, in the or-.der of preference specified by Grosz et als "Rule, ,  ?3.
The center is the entity which is most likelyto be pronominalised: Grosz et als "Rule 1"in its weakest form states that if any entity isreferred to by a pronoun, the Cb must be.CONTINUE."
cohes ion and sa l ience.
.
.
.
both hold; same center (o  rCb(Un) undefined), realised asSubject in Un+l;RETAIN."
cohes ion only; i.e.
centerremains the same but is not re-alised as Subject in Un+l;SMOOTH SHIFT."
sa l ience only; cen-ter of Un+l realised as Subject but: , not  equal .to,Cb(U~);ROUGH SHIFT."
neither cohes ion  norsa l ience holds.NO CB: this transition is used bysome researchers but is not dis-cussed by GJW.Figure 1: Centering Transitions2.2 P ronomina l i sa t ionText genres are known to vary in the extentto which pronouns are used.
The CT-basedframework allows us to experiment with differ-ent strategies for choosing when to use a pro-noun, including:1.
Never use anaphoric pronouns - -  for in-stance, in certain legal documents or tech-nical manuals where there must be no pos-sibility of ambiguity.2.
Always pronominalise the Cb.3.
Use a pronoun for non-Cbs only if the Cbis pronominalised.4.
Pronominalise the Cb only after a Continuetransition.Strategy 3 is favoured by (GJW) who cite psy-chological evidence that "the Cb is preferen-tially realised by a pronoun in English and byequivalent forms (i.e., ,.zero pronouns) in otherlanguages" (op cit., p. 214).
However, in theimplementation reported in section 3 we opt forthe more restrictive strategy 4.
The generationapproach outlined below enables us to experi-ment with different strategies and compare theresulting texts.782.3 Center ing  and d iscourse  s t ruc ture  center after a sequence of CONTINUE.
How-The canonical formulation of CT is concerned ever, in a sequence CONTINUE-RETAIN-SHIFT.'
with local?
cohesion;--'specifying .aqment-,.
~rarisi~':"::':the:sHng'~:is:p redicted:Am:its:A?cal':c?ntext~ buttions between consecutive sentences in a dis- the RETAIN is not; whenever RETAIN is a cheapcourse segment and favouring sequences whichmaintain the same center.
Our implementationincorporates two extensions which have impli-cations for more structured iscourse: Strubeand Hahn's (1999) "cheapness" principle, whichfavours transitions that introduce a new topic?
in.
a sal ient  position, and .Cristea's Veins The-ory (Cristea et al1998) which redefines tran-sitions in terms of rhetorical hierarchy ratherthan linear sequence of clauses (see section 3.3for discussion).
"Cheapness" is satisfied by a transition pair( (Un-1 ,  Un), (Un, Un+l)) if the preferred centerof Un is the Cb of Un+l.
For example, this testis satisfied by a RETAIN-SHIFT sequence but notby CONTINUE-SHIFT, so it is predicted that theformer pattern will be used to introduce a newcenter.
(This claim is consistent with the find-ings of Brennan 1998, Brennan et al1987.)
If weconsider examples la-e below, the sequence c-d'-e ~, including a RETAIN-SHIFT sequence, readsmore fluently than c-d-e even though the latterscores better according to the canonical rank-ing.. a. John has had trouble arranging his va-cation.b.
He cannot find anyone to take over hisresponsibilities.c.
He called up Mike yesterday to workout a plan.
CONTINUEd.
He has been pretty annoyed with Mikerecently.
CONTINUEe.
Mike cancelled last week's projectmeeting at short notice.EXP-SMOOTH SHIFTd'.
Mike has mmoyed him a lot recently.RETAINe I.
He cancelled last week's project meet-ing at short notice.
SMOOTH SHIFTThe "cheapness" principle illustrates the needfor global opfimisation.
We noted above thatthere is evidence that a RETAIN-SHIFT sequenceis the preferred way of introducing a newtransition following CONTINUE, another CON-TINUE would be cheap as well.
The RETAINis motivated as it enables a "cheap" SMOOTHSHIFT, and so we need a way of evaluating thewhole sequence CONTINUE-RETAIN-SHIFT ver-SUS CONTINUE-CONTINUE-SHIFT.?
: :2~4_~._,:Ceaatering.in :NLGCT has developed primarily in the context ofnatural language interpretation, focussing onanaphora resolution (see e.g., Brennan et al1987).
Curiously, NLG researchers have tendedto overlook GJW's proposal thatRule 2 provides a constraint on speak-ers, and on natural-language gener-ation systems .
.
.To  empirically testthe claim made by Rule 2 requires ex-amination of differences in inferenceload of alternative multi-utterance s -quences that differentially realize thesame content.GJW, p. 215.With a few exceptions (e.g., Mittal et al1998,Kibble 1999, Kibble and Power 1999, Cheng2000) NLG researchers have interpreted CT asa theory of pronominalisation only (e.g., Dale1992).
In this paper we concentrate on plan-ning, aiming to determine whether the primciples underlying the constraints and rules ofthe theory can be "turned round" and used asplanning operators for generating coherent ext.Text planning in conformity with CT will needto follow the following set of heuristics:1.
Plan tile order of clauses so that adjacentclauses have at least one referent in corn-I l ion.2.
Cohes ion :  Prefer orderings which main-tain the same Cb in successive clauses.,3..- Sal ience: .Realise as=SubjeCt- of U;~ tilemost grammatically salient entity in U,~-iwhich is mentioned in Un (the Cb).4.
Cheapness :  Realise as Subject of Un anentity which is mentioned in U,~+l (and willtherefore be Cb of U,,+i).79Breaking down the problem like this reveals ferent transitions.
We assume that certainthat there are various ways the distinct tasks options for syntactic realisation can be pre-...... can.
be slotted, into.-an.NLG,system~Cohesion.
.
... .... _~dicted.,ma::t~he,~basis~,of:,the~axgu~ment  ~str:uc-naturally comes under Text Planning: orderinga sequence of utterances to maintain the sameentity as the center, within constraints on order-ing determined by discourse relations.
However,identifying the center depends on grammaticalsalience, which is normally determined by theSentence Planner- for example, choice of activeor passive voice.
Three possibilities are:?
"Incremental" sentence-by-sentence gener-ation, where the syntactic structure of Unis determined before the semantic ontentof Un+l is planned.
That is, the Text Plan-ner would plan the content of Un+l by aim-ing to realise a proposition in the knowl-edge base which mentions an entity whichis salient in Un.
We axe not aware of anysystem which performs all stages of gener-ation in a sentence-by-sentence way, and inany case this type of architecture would notallow the cheapness principle to be imple-mented as it would not support the neces-sary forward planning.
* A pipelined system where the "topic" or"theme" of a sentence is designated inde-pendently as part of the semantic input,and centering rules reflect the informationstructure of a discourse.
This approachwas suggested by Kibble (1999), proposingthat text and sentence planning should bedriven by the goal of realising the desig-nated topic in positions where it will beinterpreted as the Cb.
However, this is notreally a solution so much as a refinement ofthe problem, since it simply shifts the prob-lem of identifying the topic.
Prince (1999)notes that definitions of "topic" in the liter-ature do not provide objective tests for top-ichood and proposes that the topic shouldbe identified with the centre of attentionas defined by CT; however, what would beneeded here would be a more fimdamentaldefinition which would, account for a par-ticular entity being chosen to be tile centreof attention.o The solution we adopt is to treat tile taskof identifying Cbs as an optimisation prob-lem, giving different weightings to t, he dif-ture of predicates, which means that cen-tering transitions can be calculated as partof Text Planning.3 Imp lemented  prototypeconcessionapprove(fda, elixir-plus) cause NUCL~ S~LITEban(fda, elixir) contain(elixir, gestodene)Figure 2: Rhetorical structureThe text planner has been developed withinICONOCLAST, a project which investigates ap-plications of constraint-based reasoning in Nat-ural Language Generation using as  subject-matter the domain of medical informationleaflets.
Following (Scott and de Souza 1990),we represent rhetorical structure by graphs likefigure 2, in which non-terminal nodes representRST relations, terminal nodes represent propo-sitions, and linear order is unspecified.
The taskof the text planner is to realize the rhetoricalstructure as a text structure in which propo-sitions are ordered, assigned to textual units(e.g., sentences, paragraphs, vertical lists), andlinked where appropriate by discourse connec-tives (e.g., 'since', 'however').Even for a simple rhetorical input like figure 2many reasonable text structures call be gener-ated.
Since there are two nucleus-satellite r la-tions, tile elementary propositions can be or-dered in four ways; several discourse connec-tives can be employed to realize each rhetor-ical relation (e.g.
concession can be realizedby 'although', 'but' and '.however'); at one ex-treme, the text can be spread out over severalparagraphs, while at the other extreme it canbe squeezed into a single sentence.
With fairlyrestrictive constraint settings, the system gen-erates 24 text-structure patterns for figure 2,including the following (shown schematically):80A.
Since contain(elixir, gestodene), ban(fda, 3.1 Choos ing  centerselixir).
However, approve(fda, elixirplus).
Given a text structure, we enumerate all per-B.
approve(fda, elixirplus), although sincecontain(elixir, gestodene ) , ban (f da, elixir).The final output texts will depend on how thepropositions are realized syntactically; amongother things this will depend on centeringchoices within each proposition.In outline, the procedure that we propose isas follows: ~ .. Enumerate all text structures that are ac-ceptable realizations of the rhetorical struc-ture...For each text structure, enumerate all per-missible choices for the Cb and Cp of eachproposition.Evaluate the solutions, taking account ofreferential coherence among other consid-erations, and choose the best.For the example in figure 2, centers can be as-signed in four ways for each text-structure pat-tern, making a total of 96 solutions.As will probably be obvious, such a procedurecould not be applied for rhetorical structureswith many propositions.
For examples of thiskind, based on the relations 'cause' and 'con-cession' (each of which can be marked by sev-eral different connectives), we find that the to-tal number of text-structures i  approximately5 N-~ for N propositions.
Hence with N = 4 wewould expect around 600 text structures; withperhaps 5-10 ways of assigning centers to eachtext structure, the total number of solutionswould approximate to 5000.
Global optimiza-tion of the solution therefore becomes imprac-ticable for texts longer than about five propo-sitions; we address this problem by a techniqueof partial optimization i which a macro-plannerfixes the large-scale structure of the text, thusdefining a set of micro-planning problems eachsmall enough to be tack led by the methods de-scribed here.Stage 1 of the planning procedure is describedelsewhere (Power, 2000); we focus here on stages2 and 3, in which the text planner enumeratesthe possible assignments of centers and evalu-ates which is the best.missible centering assignments as foil0ws: " .
.
.
.
.1.
Determine the predecessor Yn-1 (if any) ofeach proposition Un.2.
List the potential Cbs and Cps of eachproposition, henceforth denoted by ECband ECp.3.
Compute ~li combinations from ECb andECp that respect the fundamental center-ing constraint hat Cb(Un) should be themost salient candidate in Un-1.Two criteria for determining the predecessorhave been implemented; the user can select oneor other criterion, thus using the NLG systemto test different approaches.
Following a linearcriterion, the predecessor is simply the propo-sition that precedes the current proposition inthe text, regardless of structural considerations.Following a hierarchical criterion, the predeces-sor is the most accessible previous proposition,in the sense defined by Veins Theory (Cristea etal 1998).
We will return to this issue later; fornow we assume the criterion is linear.ECb(Un) (potential Cbs of proposition Un) isgiven by the intersection between Cf(U,~) andCf(Un-1) -- i.e., all the referents they have incommon.
The potential Cps are those referentsin the current proposition that can be realizedas most salient.
Obviously this should dependon the linguistic resources available to the gen-erator; the system actually uses a simpler rulebased oil case roles within the proposition.
Fig-ure 3 shows the potential Cbs and Cps for theproposition sequence in solution A.Our treatment of salience here simplifies illtWO ways.
First, we assume that syntactic real-ization serves only to distinguish the Cp fromall other referents, which are ranked on thesame level: thus effectively SUBJECT > OTHERS.Secondly, we assume that the system already.knows, from the event.class,of the proposition,which of its case roles can occur in subject po-sition: thus for ban, both arguments are poten-tim Cps because active and passive realizationsare both allowed; for contain, only elixir is apotential Cp because we disallow 'Gestodene iscontained by Elixir'.81U Proposit ionU1 cont ain(elixir, gestodene)U2 ban(fda, elixir)U3 approve(fda, elixir-plus)ECb(U)\[\]\[elixir\]\[fda\]2Cp(U).......... -{elixir\]\[fda, elixir\]\[fda, elixir-plus\]Figure 3: Cbs and Cps for solution A.With these simplifications, the enumerationof centering assignments i straightforward; inthe above example, four combinations are pos-sible, since there are two choices each for Cp(U2)and Cp(U3), none of which leads to any viola-tion of the basic centering constraint.
This con-straint only comes into play if there are severalchoices for Cb(Un), one of which coincides withCp(Un-1).3.2 Evaluat ing solutionsVarious metrics could be used in order to eval-uate centering choices.
One possibility, for ex-ample, would be to associate a cost with eachtransition, so that perhaps 'Continue' (the besttransition) has zero cost, while 'No Cb' (theworst transtion) has the highest cost.
However,we have preferred the approach mentioned ear-lier in which cohesion and salience are evaluatedseparately; this allows us to include the furthercriterion of cheapness.Although this paper focusses on centering is-sues, it is important o remember that other as-pects of text quality are evaluated at the sametime: the aim is to compute a global measure sothat disadvantages in one factor can be weighedagainst advantages in another.
For instance,text pattern B is bound to yield poor continuityof reference because it orders the propositionsso that U1 and U2 have no referents in coin-mon.
Text pattern A avoids this defect, butthis does not necessarily mean that A is bet-ter than B overall; there may be other reasons,unconnected with centering, for preferring B toA.The system evaluates candidate solutions byapplying a battery of tests to each.node of thetext plan.
Each test identifies whether the nodesuffers from a particular defect.
For instance,one stylistic defect (at least for the rhetoricalrelations occurring in figure 2) is that of plac-ing nucleus before satellite; in general, the textreads better if important material is placed atthe end.
For each type of defect, we specify aweight indicating its importance: in evaluatingcontinuity of reference, for example, the defect'No Cb' might be regarded as more significantthan other defects.
Summing the weighted costsfor all defects, we obtain a total cost for the so-lution; our aim is to find the solution with thelowest total cost.Regarding centering, the tests currently ap-plied are as follows.Salience violationA proposition Un violates salience ifCb(Un) 7 ~ Cp(Un).
This defect is assessedonly on propositions that have a backward-looking center.Coherence violationA proposition Un violates cohesion ifCb(Un) 7 ~ Cb(Un-1).
Again, this defect isnot recorded when either Un or Un-1 hasno Cb.Cheapness violationA proposition Us violates cheapness ifCb(Un) 7 ~ Cp(Un-1).No backward- look ing  centerThis defect is recorded for any propositionwith no Cb, except the first proposition inthe sequence (which by definition cannothave a Cb).Applied to the four solutions to text structureA, with all weights equal to 1, these definitionsyield costs, shown in Figure 4.-According to ourmetric, solutions A1 and A2 should be preferredto A3 and A4 because they incur less cost.
Thisresutt=cml be  assessed, by comparing -the follow-ing output texts, in which the generator has fol-lowed the policy of pronominalizing the Cb onlyafter a 'Continue' transition:A1.
Since Elixir contains gestodene, the FDA bansElixir.
However, it approves ElixirPlus.82Solut ionA1A2A3A4U Cb(U) Cp(U) DefectsU1 0 .elixir noneU2 elixir fda salienceU3 fda fda cohesionTOTAL 2U1 ~ elixirU2 elixir elixirUa fda fdaTOTALVlU2U3U1U2U3nonenonecohesion, cheapness2I~ elixir noneelixir fda saliencefda elixir-plus salience, cohesionTOTAL 3elixir noneelixir elixir nonefda elixir-plus salience, cohesion, cheapnessTOTAL 3Figure 4: Costs of solutions A1 - A4.A2.
Since Elixir contains gestodene, it is banned bythe FDA.
However, the FDA approves Elixir-Plus.A3.
Since Elixir contains gestodene, the FDA bansElixir.
However, ElixirPlus is approved by theFDA.A4.
Since Elixir contains gestodene, it is banned bythe FDA.
However, ElixirPlus is approved bythe FDA.Of course we are not satisfied that this metricis the best; an advantage of the generation ap-proach is that different evaluation methods caneasily be compared.3.3 H ierarch ica l  center ingThe linear approach, illustrated above, assignscenters on the basis of a proposition sequence,flattening the original hierarchy and ignoringnucleus-satellite r lations.
This means, for ex-ample, that in a text of two paragraphs, propo-sition U2.1 (the first proposition in the secondparagraph) has to be treated as the successorto Ui.N (the final proposition of the first para-graph): even if Ui.
:\, is relatively insignificant(the satellite of a satellite, perhaps).
One's in-tuition in such cases is that some more signif-icant proposition in the first paragraph shouldbecome the focus against which continuity ofreference in the second paragraph is judged.Veins Theory (Cristea et al1998) provides apossible formalization of this intuition, in whichsome earlier propositions become inaccessible asa rhetorical boundary is crossed.
The theorycould be applied to centering in various ways;we have implemented perhaps the simplest ap-proach, in which centering transitions are as-sessed in relation to the nearest accessible prede-cessor.
In many cases the linear and hierarchicaldefinitions give tile same result, but sometimesthey diverge, as in the following alternative tosolutions A and B:C. ban(fda, elixir) since contain(elixir,gestodene).However, approve(f tin, elixirplus).Following Veins Theory, the predecessor ofapprove(f da, elixirplus) is ban(f da, elixir); itslinear predecessor contain( elixir, ge.stodene )(an embedded satellite) is inaccessible.
Thismakes a considerable difference: under a hier-archical approach, fda can be the Cb of the83final proposition; under a linear approach, this Proceedings of ANLP-NAACL 2000.proposition has no Cb.
D Cristea, N Ide and L Romary, 1998.
Veins~ '.
Iheory:  ~ A :model of,:gtobat: discourse :cohesion4 Conc lus ionThis paper has highlighted some implicationsof Centering Theory for planning coherent text.We show that by making some assumptionsabout which entities are potential Cps, we candetermine Cbs, Cps, and hence transitions, inthe text planning stage.
This allows the textplanner to select he proposition sequence thatyields the best continuity of reference, or to bal-ance the goal of referential continuity againstother factors.
For instance, there may be apreference for Satellite to follow Nucleus forsome discourse relations, even if this results in agreater number of defects according to centeringconsiderations.
There are difficulties in evaluat-ing algorithms for specific tasks which are em-bedded in a generation system, since the qualityof the output is limited by the functionalities ofthe system as a whole.
In particular, the taskof generating appropriate referring expressionscannot be tackled in isolation from other taskswhich contribute to the coherence of a text.The implementation of Centering reportedhere is a special case of text planning by con-straint satisfaction, where the user has controlover the different constraints, and this approachmeans that different strategies for e.g.
clause or-dering and pronominalisation can easily be com-pared by inspecting the resulting texts.
Theevaluation metrics we have presented here areprovisional and are a matter for further detailedresearch, which our approach to text generationwill facilitate.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported by the UK EPSRCunder grant references L51126, L77102 (Kibble)and M36960 (Power).ReferencesS Brennan 1998.
Centering as a PsychologicalResource for Achieving Joint Reference in Spon-taneous Discourse.
In Walker, Joshi and Prince(eds), Centering Theory in Discourse, Oxford.S Brennan.
M Walker Friedman and C Pollard1987.
A Centering Approach to Pronouns.
InProe.
25th A CL .H Cheng 2000.
Experimenting with the Inter-action between Aggregation and Text Planning~and coherence.
In Proc COLING/ACL'98, pp281-285, Montreal.R Dale 1992, Generating Referring Expressions,MIT Press.B Grosz, A Joshi and S Weinstein 1995, Center-ing: a framework for modelling the local coher-ence of discourse.
Computational Linguistics.?
R Kibble 1999, Cb or not Cb?
Centering theoryapplied to NLG.
A CL workshop on Discourseand Reference Structure.R Kibble and R Power,1999.
Using centeringtheory to plan coherent exts, Proceedings ofthe 12th Amsterdam Colloquium.W Mann and S Thompson 1987, RhetoricalStructure Theory: A Theory of Text Organ-isation.
In L Polanyi (ed.
), The Structure ofDiscourse.K McCoy and M Strube, 1999.
GeneratingAnaphoric Expressions: Pronoun or DefiniteDescription?
A CL workshop on Discourse andReference Structure.V Mittal, J Moore, G Carenini and S Roth 1998,Describing Complex Charts in Natural Lan-guage: A Caption Generation System.
Com-putational Linguistics.R Power 2000.
Planning Texts by ConstraintSatisfaction, to appear in Proceedings of COL-ING 2000.E Prince 1999.
How not to mark topics: "Top-icalization" in English and Yiddish.
Ms, Lin-guistics Department, University of Pennsylva-nia.E Reiter 1994.
Has a consensus NL generationarchitecture appeared, and is it psycholinguisti-cally plausible?
In Proc.
INLG 7.E Reiter and R Dale 1997, Building AppliedNatural-Language Generation Systems.
Jour-nal of Natural-Language EngineeringD Scott and C de Souza, 1990.
Getting themessage across in RST-based text generation.In Dale, Mellish and Zock (eds), Current Re-search in Natural Language Generation, Aca-demic Press.M Strube and U Hahn 1999, Functional Center-ing - Grounding Referential Coherence in Infor-mation Structure.
Computational Linguistics.84
