An Application of the Interlingua System ISS for Spanish-EnglishPronominal Anaphora Generation,Jesfis Peral and Antonio FerrfindezResearch Group on Language Processing and Information Systems.Department ofSoftware and Computing Systems.
University of Alicante.03690 San Vicente del Raspeig.
Aiicante, Spain.
{jperal, antonio} @dlsi.ua.esAbstractIn this ~paper, we present he Interlinguasystem ISS to generate the pronominalanaphora into the Spanish and Englishlanguages.
We also describe the mainproblems in the pronoun generation intoboth languages such as zero-subjectconstructions and number, gender andsyntactic differences.
Our system improvesother proposals presented so far due to thefact that we are able to solve and generateintersentential anaphora, to detectcoreference chains and to generate Spanishzero-pronouns into English, issues that arehardly considered by other systems.
Finally,we provide outstanding results of our systemon unrestricted corpora.IntroductionOne of the main problems of many commercialMachine Translation (MT) and experimentalsystems is that they do not carry out a correctpronominal anaphora generation.
Solving theanaphora nd extracting the antecedent are keyissues in a correct generation into the targetlanguage.
Unfortunately, the majority of MTsystems do not deal with anaphora resolutionand their successful operation usually does notgo beyond the sentence l vel.
In this paper, wepresent acomplete approach that allows pronounresolution and generation into the targetlanguage.Our approach works on unrestricted textsunlike other systems, like the KANT interlinguasystem (Leavitt et al (1994)), that are designedfor well-defined omains.
Although full parsingof these texts could be applied, we have usedpartial parsing of the texts due to theunavoidable incompleteness of the grammar.This is a main difference with the majority of theinterlingua systems such as the DLT systembased on a modification of Esperanto (Witkam(1983)), the Rosetta system which isexperimenting with Montague semantics as thebasis for an interlingua (Appelo andLandsbergen (1986)), the KANT system, etc.
asthey use full parsing of the text.After the parsing and solving pronominalanaphora, an interlingua representation f thewhole text is obtained.
In the interlinguarepresentation no semantic information is usedas input, unlike some approaches that have asinput semantic information of the constituents(Miyoshi et al (1997), Castell6n et al (1998),the DLT system, etc).From this interlingua representation, thegeneration of anaphora (including intersententialanaphora), the detection of coreference hains ofthe whole text and the generation of Spanishzero-pronouns into English have been carriedout, issues that are hardly considered by othersystems.
Furthermore, this approach can be usedfor other different applications, e.g.
InformationRetrieval, Summarization, etc.The paper is organized as follows: In section 1,the complete approach that includes Analysis,Interlingua and Generation modules will bedescribed.
These modules will be explained indetail in the next three sections.
In section 5, theGeneration module has been evaluated in order!
This paper has been partly financed by the collaborative r search project between Spain and The United Kingdomnumber HB 1998-0068.42to measure the efficiency of our proposal.
To doso, two experiments have been accomplished:the generation of Spanish zero-pronouns intoEnglish (syntactic generation module) and thegeneration of English pronouns into Spanishones (morphological generation module).Finally, the conclusions of this work will bepresented.1 System ArchitectureThe complete approach that solves and generatesthe anaphor is based on the scheme of Figure 1.Translation is carried out in two stages: from thesource language to the Interlingua, nd from theInterlingua into the target language.
Modules foranalysis are independent from modules forgeneration..In this paper, although we have onlystudied the Spanish and English languages, ourapproach is easily extended to other languages,i.e.
multilingual system, in the sense that anyanalysis module can be linked to any generationmodule.1I NLPproblem I NLPproblem I i\[ Spanish 8enefation \[ \[ English generation IFigure 1.
System architecture.As can be observed in Figure 1, there arethree independent modules in the process ofgeneration: Analysis, Interlingua nd Generationmodules.2 Analysis moduleThe analysis is carried out by means of SUPAR(Slot Unification Parser for Anaphoraresolution) system, presented in Femindez et al(2000).
SUPAR is a computational systemfocused on anaphora resolution.
It can deal withseveral kinds of anaphora, such as pronominalanaphora, one-anaphora, surface-count anaphoraand definite descriptions.
In this paper, we focuson pronominal anaphora resolution andgeneration into the target language.
Inpronominal anaphora resolution in both theSpanish and English languages, the system hasachieved an accuracy of 84% and 87%respectively.A grammar defined by means of thegrammatical formalism SUG (Slot UnificationGrammar) is used as input of SUPAR.
Atranslator that transforms SUG rules into Prologclauses has been developed.
This translator willprovide a Prolog program that will parse eachsentence.
SUPAR allows to carry out either a fullor a partial parsing of the text, with the sameparser and grammar.
Here, partial parsingtechniques have been used due to theunavoidable incompleteness of the grammar andthe use of unrestricted texts (corpora) as inputs.These unrestricted corpora used as input forthe partial parser contain the words tagged withtheir grammatical categories obtained from theoutput of a part-of-speech (POS) tagger.
Theword, as it appears in the corpus, its lemma ndits POS tag (with morphological information) issupplied for each word in the corpus.
The corpusis split into sentences before applying theparsing.The output of the parsing module will bethe Slot Structure (SS) that stores the necessaryinformation 2 for Natural Language Processing(NLP) problem resolution.
This SS will be theinput for the following module in which NLPproblems (anaphora, extraposition, ellipsis, etc.
)will be treated and solved.In Fernindez et al (1998), a partial parsing 3strategy that provides all the necessaryinformation for resolving anaphora is presented.This partial parsing shows that only thefollowing constituents are necessary foranaphora resolution: co-ordinated prepositionaland noun phrases, pronouns, conjunctions and2 The SS stores for each constituent the followinginformation: constituent name (NP, PP, etc.
),semantic and morphologic information, discoursemarker (identifier of the entity or discourse object)and the SS of its subconstituents.3 It is important to emphasize that he system allowsto carry out a full parsing of the text.
In this paper,partial parsing with no semantic nformation is usedin the evaluation ofour approach.43verbs, regardless of the order in which theyappear in the text.
The free words consist ofconstituents hat are not covered by this partialparsing (e.g.
adverbs).After applying the anaphora resolutionmodule, a new Slot Structure (SS') is obtained.In this new structure the correct antecedent(chosen from the possible candidates) for eachanaphoric expression will be stored togetherwith its morphological and semanticinformation.
SS' will be the input for thelnterlingua system.3 Interl ingua system (ISS)As said before, the Interlingua system takes theSS of the sentence after applying the anaphoraresolution module as input.
This system, namedlnterlingua Slot Structure (1SS), generates aninterlingua representation from the SS of thesentence.SUPAR generates one SS for each sentencefrom the whole text and it solves intrasententialand intersententiai anaphora.
Then, 1SSgenerates the interlingua representation f thewhole text.
This is one of the main advantagesof 1SS because it is possible to generateintersentential pronominal naphora.To begin with, 1SS splits sentences intoclauses 4.To identify a new clause when partialparsing has been carried out, the followingheuristic has been applied:H1 Let us assume that the beginning of a newclause has been found when a verb is parsedand a free conjunction is subsequently parsed.In this particular case, a free conjunctiondoes not imply conjunctions that join co-ordinated noun and prepositional phrases.
Itrefers, here, to conjunctions that are parsed inour partial parsing scheme.Once the text has been split into clauses,the next stage is to generate the interlinguarepresentation for clauses.
We have used acomplex feature structure for each clause.
InFigure 2 the information of the first clause of theexample (1) is presented:(1) The boys of the mountains were in thegarden.
They were catching flowers.4 A clause could be defined as "a group of wordscontaining a verb".
( Verb: be "\]1Number: plural 1ACTION= .~ Person: third1 Tense: past \]L Type: impersonalJ("Cat: NP "~\]Identifier: X \[I Head: boy \[) Number: pluralAGENT= ~ Gender: masculineI Person: third \[I MODIFIER: of the mountains \[~Sem_Re f: human JTHEME={}f Cat: PPIdentifier: YPrep: in .
~Cat: NP\[Identifier: ZMODIFIER= ~ I Head: gardenL..~ Number: singularENTITY= ~ (3ender: masculine\[Person: third~, Sere Ref: locationFigure 2. lnterlingua representation fa clause.As can be observed in Figure 25 , theinterlingua is a frame composed of semanticroles and features extracted from the SS of theclause.
Semantic roles that have been used inthis approach are the following: ACTION,AGENT, THEME and MODIFIER thatcorrespond to verb, subject, object andprepositional phrases of the clause respectively.The notation we have used is based on therepresentation used in KANT interlingua.
Toidentify these semantic roles when partialparsing has been carried out and no semanticknowledge is used, the following heuristic hasbeen applied:H2 Let us assume that the NP parsed beforethe verb is the agent of the clause.
In the sameway, the NP parsed after the verb is the themeof the clause.
Finally., all the PP found in theclause are its modifiers.5 Only the relevant attributes of each semantic roleappear in a simplified way in the picture.
Additionalattributes are added to the semantic roles in order tocomplete all the necessary information for theinterlingua representation.44In Figure 2 the following elements havebeen found: ACTION= 'were', AGENT = 'theboys of the mountains', THEME= ~ (it has notbeen found any NP after the verb) andMODIFIER = 'in the garden'.
These elementsare represented by a simple feature structure.Features are represented asattributes with theircorresponding values.The semantic role ACTION has thefollowing attributes: Verb with the value of thelemma of the verb; Number, Person and Tense(grammatical features) and Type with the type ofthe verb: impersonal, transitive, etc.
'The semantic role AGENT has thefollowing fiitributes: Cat that contains thesyntactic ategory of the constituent; Identifierwith the value of the discourse marker; Headthat contains the lemma of the constituent'shead; Number, Gender and Person containgrammatical features of the constituent;MODIFIER that contains all the informationabout he modifiers (PP) of the NP, and Sem_Refthat contains semantic information about theconstituent's head if this information isavailable.
The semantic role THEME has thesame attributes as the semantic role AGENT, i.e.the difference is that THEME is the object of theclause and AGENT is the subject.Finally, the semantic role MODIFIER hasthe following attributes: Cat that contains thesyntactic ategory of the constituent; Identifierwith the value of the discourse marker; Prepwith the preposition of the constituent andENTITY, which is the object of the PP andcontains the same attributes as the THEME.One clause can have more than one MODIFIERdepending on the number of PP that it has.
It isimportant to emphasize that all this informationis extracted from the SS of the constituentsparsed in the clause.As said before, instead of representing theclauses independently, we are interested in theinterlingua representation of the whole inputtext.
With the global representation f the inputtext we will be able to generate intrasententialand intersentential anaphora.
Furthermore, it willbe possible to solve and generate coreferencechains.
Thereby, the scheme of Figure 2 isextended in order to represent all the discourseusing the clauses as main units of thisrepresentation.
In Figure 3 the interlinguarepresentation f the whole text of the example(1) can be observed.ENITTY ICat: NPIdentifier: VHead: boyNumb, Gend, Pers:plural, mase, thlrdMODIFIER:Sem_Ret~ humanENI'IIT 2Cat:.
NPIdentifier: XHead: mountainNumb, Gend, Pets:pl, fern, thirdSern_Ref: locationENTITY 3Cat: NP t Identifier: YHead: gardenNumb, Oend, Pets:sing, masc., thirdSum Ref: locationENIITY 4Cat: NPIdentifier: ZHead: flowerNumb, Gend, Pets:plural, fem, thirdSem_Ref: thingCLAUSE 1Sentence 1D: 1ACTION~ beMODIFIER:Cat: PP, Id: Q,Prep: inCOREFERENCECHAINCl.d USE 2Sentence ID: 2ACTIO/'~ catch.THEME: ZAGENT:\[ Type, Num, Gcnd\[ Person, HeadI ENTITY:VFigure 3.
Interlingua representation fexample (1).On the left side of Figure 3 the new objectsor entities of the discourse are represented.These objects are named ENTITIES andcontain the following attributes: Cat, Identifier,Head, Number, Gender, Person and Sem_Ref,due to they can represent an AGENT, aTHEME or an object in a MODIFIER.On the right side, the CLAUSES of thetext are represented in a simplified way.
Theycontain the semantic role.
ACTION with itsattributes and the semantic roles AGENT,THEME and MODIFIER that have appearedin the clause.
These semantic roles are linked tothe ENTITIES that they refer to.
It also containsthe identifier of the sentence in which theCLAUSE appears (Sentence lD) and theConjunction that joints two or more CLAUSESin a sentence.45In the picture, four ENTITIES and twoCLAUSES can be distinguished.
TheENTITIES are as follows: ENTITY 1 ('boy'),ENTITY 2 ('mountain), ENTITY 3 ('garden')and ENTITY 4 ('flower').
Moreover, a relationbetween two ENTITIES (number 1and number2) appears in the picture due to the ENTITY1(NP) contains aMODIFIER (PP).The CLAUSE 1 contains: Sentence 1D(' 1 '), ACTION ('be'), AGENT ('V', the link toENTITY 1) and MODIFIER (which is a PPand contains the link to ENTITY 3).
TheCLAUSE 2 contains: Sentence_lD ('2'),'ACTION ('catch'), AGENT (which is aPRONOUN and contains the link to ENTITY 1)and THEME ('Z', the link to ENTITY 4).The coreference chain can be identifiedthanks to AGENTS of CLAUSE 1 andCLAUSE 2 ('the boys' and 'they') have theirlinks to the same ENTITY.
As can be seen,these links can occur between constituents ofdifferent clauses or different sentences.
Then,the global system is able to generateintersentential anaphora and identify thecoreferenee chains of the text.4 Generation moduleThe Generation module takes the interlinguarepresentation f the text as input and generatesit into the target language.
In this paper, we areonly describing the generation of pronouns.
Thegeneration phase is split into two modules:syntactic generation and morphologicalgeneration.
In the next two subsections they willbe studied in detail.
Although the approachpresented here is multilingual, we have focusedon the generation i to the Spanish and Englishlanguages.4.1 Syntactic generationIn syntactic generation the interlinguarepresentation is converted by 'transformationalrules' into an ordered surface-structure tr e, withappropriate labeling of the leaves with targetlanguage grammatical functions and features.The basic task of syntactic generation is to orderconstituents in the correct sequence for the targetlanguage.
However, the aim of this work is onlythe generation of pronominal anaphora into thetarget language, so we have only focused on thedifferences between the Spanish and Englishlanguages in the generation of the pronoun.These differences are what we have nameddiscrepancies (a study of Spanish-English-Spanish discrepancies is showed in Peral et aL(1999)).
In syntactic generation the followingdiscrepancies can be found: syntacticdiscrepancies and Spanish elliptical zero-subjectconstructions.4.1.1 Syntactic discrepanciesThis discrepancy is due to the fact that thesurface structures of the Spanish sentences aremore flexible than the English ones.
Theconstituents of the Spanish sentences can appearwithout a specific order in the sentence.
In orderto carry out a correct generation i to English, wemust firstly reorganize the Spanish sentence.Nevertheless, in the English-Spanish translation,in general, this reorganization is not necessary.Let us see an example with the Spanishsentence(2) A Pedro Io vi ayer.
(I saw Peter yesterday.
)In (2), the object of the verb, A Pedro (toPeter), appears before the verb (in the positionof the theoretically subject) and the subject isomitted (this phenomena is usual in Spanish andit will be explained in the next subsection).
ThePP A Pedro (to Peter) functions as an indirectobject of the verb (because it has the prepositionA (to)).
We can find out the subject since theverb is in first person and singular, so the subjectwould be the pronoun Yo (1).
Moreover, there isa pronoun, lo (him) that functions ascomplement of the verb vi (saw).
This pronounin Spanish refers to the object of the verb, Peter,when it is moved from its theoretical place afterthe verb (as it occurs in this sentence).As explained before, it is possible toidentify the semantic roles (AGENT, ACTION,etc.)
of the previous constituents in theCLAUSE applying a series of heuristics.
Oncethe semantic roles of the constituents have beenestablished, they will be stored in the interlinguarepresentation.
The generation i to English willbe a new clause in which the order of theconstituents i the usual in English: AGENT,ACTION, THEME and MODIFIERS.464.1.2 Elliptical zero-subject constructions(zero-pronouns)As commented before, the Spanish languageallows to omit the pronominal subject of thesentences.
These omitted pronouns are usuallynamed zero-pronouns.
While in other languages,zero-pronouns may appear in either the subject'sor the object's grammatical position, (e.g.Japanese), in Spanish texts, zero-pronouns onlyappear in the position of the subject.
In Englishtexts, this sort of pronoun occurs far lessfrequently, as the use of them are generallycompulsory in the language.
Nevertheless, someexamples can be found: "Ross carefully foldedhis trousers and ~.climbed into bed".
(Thesymbol ~ shows the position of the omittedpronoun).. Target languages with typicalelliptical (zero) constructions corresponding tosource English pronouns are Italian, Thai,Chinese or Japanese.In order to generate Spanish zero-pronounsinto English, they must first be located in thetext (ellipsis detection), and then resolved(anaphora resolution).
At the ellipsis detectionstage, information about the zero-pronoun (e.g.person, gender, and number) must first beobtained from the verb of the clause and thenused to identify the antecedent of the zero-pronoun (resolution stage).
The detectionprocess depends on the knowledge about thestructure of the language itself, which gives usclues to the use of each type of zero-pronoun.The resolution of zero-pronouns has beenimplemented in SUPAR.
As we may work onunrestricted texts to which partial parsing isapplied, zero-pronouns must also be detectedwhen we do not dispose of full syntacticinformation.
Once the input text has been splitinto clauses after applying the heuristic H1, thenext problem consists of the detection of theomission of the subject from each clause.If partial parsing techniques have beenapplied, we can establish the following heuristicto detect he omission of the subject from eachclause:H3 After the sentence has been divided intoclauses, a noun phrase or a pronoun is sought,for each clause, through the clause constituentson the left-hand side of the verb, unless it isimperative or impersonal.
Such a noun phraseor pronoun must agree in person and numberwith the verb of the clause.Sometimes, gender information of thepronoun can be obtained when the verb iscopulative.
For example, in:(3) Pedroj vio a Anak en el parque.
Ok Estabamuy guapa.
(Peterj saw Annk in the park.
Shek was verybeautiful.
)In this example, the verb estaba (was) iscopulative, so that its subject must agree ingender and number with its object whenever theobject can have either a masculine or a femininelinguistic form (guapo: masc, guapa: fem).
Wecan therefore get information about its genderfrom the object, guapa ("beautiful" in itsfeminine form) which automatically assigns it tothe feminine gender so the omitted pronounwould have to be she rather than he.After the zero-pronoun has been detected,SUPAR inserts the pronoun (with its informationof person, gender and number) in the position inwhich it has been omitted.
This pronoun will bedetected and resolved in the following module ofanaphora resolution.
After that, ISS generates theinterlingua representation f the text.In the example (3), two CLAUSES areidentified.
In the second CLAUSE the zero-pronoun is detected (third person, singular andfeminine -she-) and solved (third person,singular and feminine -Ann-).
So the AGENT ofthis CLAUSE is the PRONOUN she and it has alink to the ENTITY Ann (the chosenantecedent).Now, the generation of Spanish zero-pronouns into English is easy because all theinformation that it is needed is located in theinterlingua representatio.n.
The Englishpronoun's information is extracted in thefollowing way: number and person informationare obtained from the PRONOUN and genderinformation is obtained from the Head of itsantecedent.474.2 Morphological generationIn the morphological generation we mainly haveto treat and solve number and genderdiscrepancies in the generation of pronouns.4.2.1 Number discrepanciesThis problem is generated by the discrepancybetween words of different languages thatexpress the same concept.
These words can bereferred to a singular pronoun in the sourcelanguage and to a plural pronoun in the targetlanguage.
For example, in English the concept.people is plural, whereas in Spanish is singular.
(4) Tile stadium was full of peoplej.
They~ werevery angry withthe referee.
(5) El estadio estaba /leno de gentei.
~staiestaba muy enfadada con el ~rbitro.In (4), it can be observed that the namepeople in English has been replaced with theplural pronoun they, whereas in Spanish (5) thename gente has been replaced with the singularpronoun dsta (it).
Gender discrepancies alsoexist in the translation of other languages suchas in the German-English translation.In order to take into account numberdiscrepancies in the generation of the pronouninto the target language a set of morphological(number) rules is constructed.In the generation of the pronoun They intoSpanish in the example (4), the interlinguarepresentation has a PRONOUN ('they', thirdperson and plural) that it is linked to theENTITY ('police', plural).
For the correctgeneration into Spanish the followingmorphological rule is constructed:pronoun + third..person + plural + antecedent(~olice') ~ ~sta (pronoun, third person,feminine and singular)The left-hand side of the morphologicalrule contains the interlingua representation ofthe pronoun and the right-hand side contains thepronoun in the target language.In the same way, a set of morphologicalrules is constructed in order to generate Englishpronouns.
Next, an example of these rules isshown:pronoun + third_person + singular + antecedent('policla~ ~ they (pronoun, third person andplural)4.2.2 Gender discrepanciesEnglish has less morphological information thanSpanish.
With reference to plural personalpronouns, the pronoun we can be translated intonosotros (masculine) or nosotras (feminine), youinto ustedes (masculine/feminine), vosotros(masculine) or vosotras (feminine) and they intoellos or elias.
Furthermore, the singular personalpronoun it can be translated into dl/dste(masculine) or ella/dsta (feminine).
Forexample:(6) Women~ were in the shop.
They~ were buyinggifts for their husbands.
(7) Las mujeresl estaban en la tienda.
Ellasiestaban comprando regains pard sus maridos.In Spanish, the plural name mujeres(women) is feminine and is replaced by thepersonal pronoun elias (plural feminine) (7),whereas in English they is valid for masculine aswell as for feminine (6).
",These discrepancies do not always meanthat Spanish anaphors bear more informationthan English one.
For example, Spanishpossessive adjectives ~ casa) do not carrygender information whereas English possessiveadjectives do (his~her house).We can find similar discrepancies amongother languages.
For example, in theFrench-German translation, gender is assignedarbitrarily in both languages (although in Frenchis not as arbitrarily as in German).
The English-German translation, like English-Spanish,supposes a translation from a language withneutral gender into a language that assignsgender grammatically.As commented, it is important toemphasize that the omission of the pronominalsubject is very usual in Spanish.
If we want tostress the subject of a clause or distinguishbetween different possible subjects, we will haveto write the pronominal subject.
Otherwise,pronominal subject could be omitted.
We areinterested, however, in the correct generation ofpronouns, and therefore, they will never beomitted.Thanks to the fact that our system solvesonly personal pronouns in third person, we haveonly studied gender discrepancies in thegeneration of the third person pronouns.
The48study has been divided into pronouns withsubject role and pronouns with complement role.a) Pronouns with subject role.
This kind ofpronouns can be identified in the interlinguarepresentation because they have the semanticrole of AGENT in a CLAUSE.
Theirantecedents are established with the links to theENTITIES.The main problem in the pronoungeneration into English consists of thegeneration of pronoun it.
If we have a pronounwith the following attributes: masculine,singular and third person in the interlinguarepresentation, this can be generated into theSpanish pron6uns he or it.
If the antecedent ofthe pronoun refers to a person, we will generateit into he.
If the antecedent of the pronoun is ananimal or a thing we will generate it into it.These characteristics of the antecedent can beobtained from the semantic information stored inits attribute Sem_Ref.
A similar strategy is usedto generate the pronouns she or it.
Withreference to plural personal pronouns:masculine/feminine, plural and third person,they are generated into the English pronounthey.In Figure 4, the set of morphological rulesto treat gender discrepancies in Englishgeneration of pronouns is shown:pron + third_person + masculine + sing + antec (person) ~ hepmn + thirdperson + masculine + sing + antec (animal or thing) --) itpron + thirdperson + feminine + sing + antec (person) ..-) shepron + third_person + feminine + sing + antec (animal orthing) ~ itpron + thitrlperson + feminine/masculine +plural ~ theyFigure 4.In Spanish generation, the main problemconsists of the translation of pronoun it The setof morphological rules to treat his case is shownin Figure 5:pron + third_person + sing + antec (animal with masculine gender) ~ ~1\[ pron + third_person + sing + antec (thing with masculine gender) .-) dste\] pron + third_person + sing + antec (animal with feminine gender) ~ ellal pmn + third_person + sing + antec (thing with feminine gender) .-y 6staFigure 5.b) Pronouns with complement role.
This kind ofpronouns can be identified in the interlinguarepresentation because they have the semanticrole of THEME or they are in a MODIFIER ina CLAUSE.In the pronoun generation i to English, theset of morphological rules of Figure 6 isapplied:pron + third_parson + sing + antec (person with masculine gander) ~ himpron + third_person + sing + antec (person with feminine gender) ~ herpron + third_person + sing + antec (animal orthing) ...) itpron ?
thirdperson + plural + antec (person) ~ themFigure 6.In the process of generating a pronoun withthe semantic role of THEME into Spanish, theset of morphological rules of Figure 7 isapplied:pron ?
third_person ?
plural ~ lesFigure 7.On the other hand, if the pronoun is in aMODIFIER, the rules of Spanish generationwill be as shown in Figure 8:pron + third_person + sing + antec (masculine gender) ~ ~1pron + third_person + sing + antec (feminine gender) ...) ellapron + third.person + plural + antec (masculine gender) ~ ellospron + third_person + plural + antec (feminine gender) ~ eliasFigure 8.5 EvaluationThe syntactic generation and morphologicalgeneration modules of our approach ave beenevaluated.
To do so, one experiment for eachmodule has been accomplished.
In the first one,the generation of Spanish zero-pronouns intoEnglish, using the techniques described above insubsection 4.1.2, has been evaluated 6.
In thesecond one, the generation of Englishpronouns into Spanish ones has been evaluated.In this experiment number and genderdiscrepancies and their resolution, describedabove in section 4.2, have been taken intoaccount.With reference to the first experiment, ourcomputational system has been trained with a6 Syntactic discrepancies has not been evaluated dueto the aim of this work is only the pronominalanaphora generation i to the target language, so theevaluation of the generation of the whole sentenceinto the target language has been omitted.49handmade corpus 7 that contains 106 zero-pronouns.
With this training, we have extractedthe degree of importance of the preferences thatare used in the anaphora resolution module ofthe system.
Furthermore, we have been able tocheck and correct the techniques used in thedetection and generation of zero-pronouns intoEnglish.
After that, we have carried out a blindevaluation on unrestricted texts using the set ofpreferences and the generation techniqueslearned during the training phase.
In this case,partial parsing of the text with no semanticinformation has been used.With regard to unrestricted texts, oursystem has been run on two different Spanishcorpora: a) a fragment of the Spanish version ofThe Blue Book corpus (15,571 words), whichcontains the handbook of the InternationalTelecommunications Union CCITT, and b) afragment of the Lexesp corpus (9,746 words),which contains ten Spanish texts from differentgenres and authors.
These texts are taken mainlyfrom newspapers.
These corpora have beenPOS-tagged.
Having worked with differentgenres and disparate authors, we feel that theapplicability of our proposal to other sorts oftexts is assured.To evaluate the generation of Spanish zero-pronouns into English three tasks have beenaccomplished: a) the evaluation of the detectionof zero-pronouns, b) the evaluation of anaphoraresolution and c) the evaluation of generation.a) Evaluating the detection of zero-pronouns.To do this, verbs have been classified intotwo categories: 1) verbs whose subjectshave been omitted, and 2) verbs whosesubjects have not.
We have obtained asuccess rate s of 88% on 1,599 classifiedverbs, with no significant differences seenbetween the corpora.
We should alsoremark that a success rate of 98% has beenobtained in the detection of verbs whosesubjects were omitted, whereas only 80%was achieved for verbs whose subjectswere not.
This lower success rate isThis corpus contains entences with zero-pronounsmade by different researchers of our Research Group.g By "success rate", we mean the number of verbssuccessfully classified, divided by the total number ofverbs in the text.justified for several reasons.
One importantreason is the non-detection of impersonalverbs by the POS tagger.
Two otherreasons are.
the lack of semanticinformation and the inaccuracy of thegrammar used.
It is important to note that46% of the verbs in these corpora havetheir subjects omitted.
It shows quiteclearly the importance of this phenomenonin Spanish.b) Evaluating anaphora resolution.
In thistask, the evaluation of zero-pronounresolution is accomplished.
Of the 1,599verbs classified in these two corpora, 734of them have zero-pronouns.
Only 228 ofthem 9, however, are in third person and willbe anaphorically resolved.
A success rate of75% was attained for the 228 zero-pronouns.
By "successful resolutions" wemean that the solutions offered by oursystem agree with the solutions offered bytwo human experts.c) Evaluating zero-pronoun generation.
Thegeneration of the 228 Spanish zero-pronouns into English has been evaluated.The following results in the generationhave been obtained: a success rate of 70%in Lexesp and a success rate of 899'o in TheBlue Book.
In general (both corpora) asuccess rate of 75% has been achieved.
Theerrors are mainly produced by fails inanaphora resolution and fails in thegeneration of pronouns he/she/it (someheuristics 10, which have failed sometimes,have been applied due to the used corporado not include semantic information).In the second experiment, we haveevaluated the generation of Spanish personalpronouns with subject role into the English ones.A fragment of the English version of The BlueBook corpus (70,319 words) containing 1659 The remaining pronouns are not in third person orthey are cataphoric (the antecedent appears after theanaphor) or exophoric (the antecedent does notappear, linguistically, inthe text).J0 For instance: "all the pronouns in third person andsingular whose antecedents are proper nouns haveboon translated into he (antecedent with masculinegender) or she (antecedent with feminine gender);otherwise they have been translated into it".50pronouns with subject role has been used inorder to carry out a blind evaluation.
A successrate of 85.41% has been achieved.
The errors aremainly produced by fails in anaphora resolutionand in the correct choice of the gender of theantecedent's Head in Spanish.
With reference tothe choice of the gender of the antecedent'sHead, an electronic dictionary has been used inorder to translate the original English word intothe Spanish one, and subsequently, the gender isextracted from the Spanish word.
Severalproblems have occurred when using thiselectronic dictionary:1) ' the word to be translated does not appear inthe dic-tionary, and therefore, a heuristic isapplied to assign the gender2) the correct sense of the English word is notchosen, and therefore, the gender could beassigned incorrectly.ConclusionIn this paper a complete approach to solve andgenerate pronominal anaphora in the Spanishand English languages is presented.
Theapproach works on unrestricted texts to whichpartial parsing techniques have been applied.After the parsing and solving pronominalanaphora, an interlingua representation (basedon semantic roles and features) of the whole textis obtained.
The representation f the whole textis one of the main advantages of our system dueto several problems, that are hardly solved bythe majority of MT systems, can be treated andsolved.
These problems are the generation ofintersentential anaphora, the detection ofcoreference hains and the generation of Spanishzero-pronouns into English.
Generation of zero-pronouns and Spanish personal pronouns hasbeen evaluated obtaining a success rate of 75%and 85.41% respectively.ReferencesAppelo, L. and Landsbergen, J.
(1986) The machinetranslation project Rose.
In Proceedings of I.International Conference on the State of the Art inMachine Translation in America, Asia and Europe,1A1-MT'86 (Saarbr0cken).
pp.
34-51.Castell6n, I.; Fern~Sndez, A.; Mart|, M.A.
; Morante,R.
and V~zquez, G. (1998) An lnterlinguaRepresentation Based on the Lexieo-SemantieInformation.
In Proceedings of the Second AMTASIG-1L Workshop on lnterlinguas (Philadelphia,USA, 1998).Ferrfindez, A.; Palomar, M. and Moreno, L. (1998)Anaphora resolution in unrestricted texts withpartial parsing.
In Proceedings of the 36th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics and 17th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, COLING - ACL'98(Montreal, Canada, 1998).
pp.
385-391.Ferrfindez, A.; Palomar, M. and Moreno, L. (2000)An empirical approach to Spanish anaphoraresolution.
To appear in Machine Translation(Special Issue on anaphora resolution in MachineTranslation).
2000.Leavitt, J.R.R.
; Lonsdale, D. and Franz, A.
(1994) AReasoned Interlingua for knowledge-BasedMachine Translation.
InProceedings of CSCS1-94.Miyoshi, H.; Ogino, T. and Sugiyarna, K. (1997)EDR's Concept Classification and Description forInterlingual Representation.
I  Proceedings of theFirst Workshop on lnterlinguas (San Diego, USA,1997).Peral, J.; Palomar, M. and Ferffmdez, A.
(1999)Coreference-oriented Interlingual Slot Structureand Machine Translation.
In Proceedings of ACLWorkshop on Coreference and its Applications(College Park, Maryland, USA, 1999).
pp.
69-76.Witkam, A.P.M.
(1983) Distributed languagetranslation: feasibility study of multi!ingual facilityfor videotex information etworks.
BSO, Utrecht.51
