An Interlingual-based Approach to Reference ResolutionDavid FarwellComputing Research LaboratoryBox 30001/3CRLNew Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, New Mexico 88003david@crl.nmsu.eduStephen HelmreiehComputing Research LaboratoryBox 30001/3CRLNew Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, New Mexico 88003shelmrei@cri.nmsu.eduAbstractIn this paper we outline an interlingual-based procedure for resolving referenceand suggest a practical approach toimplementing it.
We assume a two-stagelanguage analysis system.
First, asyntactic analysis of an input text resultsin a functional structure in which certaincases of pronominal reference areresolved.
Second, the f-structure ismapped onto an interlingualrepresentation.
As part of this mapping,the reference of the various f-structureelements is resolved resulting in theaddition of information to certainexisting IL objects (coreference) or inthe creation of new IL objects which areadded to the domain of discourse (initialreference).For this effort, we adopt Text MeaningRepresentation forour IL and rely on theONTOS ontology (Mahesh & Nirenburg,1995) as a general knowledge base.Since the central barrier to developingsuch a system today is theincompleteness of the knowledge base,we outline a strategy starting with theimplementation f a series of form-basedresolution algorithms that are applieddirectly to the referring expressions ofthe input text.
These are initiallysupplemented by a knowledge-basedresolution procedure which, as theknowledge base grows and the adequacyof the f-structure and IL-representationincreases, takes on more and more of theprocessing load.We examine the operation of the form-based algorithms on a sample Spanishtext and show their limitations.
We thendemonstrate how an IL-based approachcan be used to resolve the problematiccases of reference.
This research effort ispart of the CREST project at the CRLfunded by DARPA 1.1 Introduction and BackgroundThis paper describes a practical approach toimplementing an interlingual-based referenceresolution procedure.
This effort is part of arecently initiated research project at theComputing Research Laboratory at NewMexico State University which aims todevelop a system that will automaticallyconstruct an epistemic knowledge base fromtext.
The procedure will also support machinetranslation (e.g., Mikrokosmos, seeOnyshkevych & Nirenburg, 1994; Carlson &Nirenburg, 1990) as well as other multilingualNLP tasks.
Since the system itself is in theearly stages of development, descriptions ofperformance are projected rather than actual.Current approaches to reference resolutionfocus on surface forms (see Sundheim &Grishman, 1995, and MUC-7, 1998, for ageneral introduction).
They include stringmatch algorithms for proper noun phrases(PNs) and common oun phrases (NPs) (e.g.,Bagga & Baldwin, 1998) and syntacticallyconstrained morphological matching forpronominals and deictic NPs (Lappin & Leass,1994).
In some cases, they include constraintsrelated to clause structure or larger textualunits (e.g., Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein, 1995).1 DOD contract N 66001-99-1-8915They do not generally consider implicitreferences or, in the case of Spanish (e.g.,Ferrhndez et al 1998), references tocontextually clear possessors using determinersrather than possessive adjectives.
All suchapproaches are supplemented, if not entirelydetermined, by heuristics which, morerecently, have been induced statistically fromcorpora (e.g., Hirsehman et al 1998, Popescu-Belis, 1998).
The only approaches ofwhich theauthors are aware that attempted toaccount forimplicit referents or implicit references arethose developed within AI over two decades.ago (e.g., Hobbs, 1979, or DeJong, 1979).This approach suggested here differsradically in thaf reference resolution istriggered by elements of interlingual (IL)representation rather than surface textexpressions.
The referents in the domain ofdiscourse consist of elements of ILrepresentation as well.
Thus, implicitreferences and implicit referents are accountedfor and, at the same time, empty references areignored.Below, in Section 2, we outline a proposalfor practically implementing an IL-basedapproach, beginning with a description of atarget procedure which resolves the referenceof each new IL element as it is being produced,clause by clause.
We then present a series ofform-based procedures, which are to begradually replaced (or, in some cases,transmogrified) as the IL analysis ystem andsupporting knowledge bases are extended.
InSection 3, we briefly describe the relevantaspects of the sample Spanish used as a basisfor the presentation.
I  Section 4, we examinethe operation of the procedures ingreater detailand demonstrate how the IL-based approachcan resolve those problematic references thatare beyond the scope of the form-basedapproaches.2 Resolution Procedures2.1 IL-based Resolution ProcedureThe proposed approach relies on the capabilityof a system to provide a reasonably adequateinterlingual representation for a text.
Here theinterlingua we rely on is a variant of TextMeaning Representation (TMR) (seehttp://crl.nmsu.edu/Research/Projects/mikro/index.html) and we focus on a sample Spanishtext and its interlingual analysis, which isknown to be reproducible automatically.The first step of the analysis process is toproduce a functional (syntactic) structure forthe text.
As part of the process of establishingthe f-structure, various structurally governed,clause and sentence internal anaphorierelations will be resolved, the relevantanaphors being coindexed (or assigneddiffering indexes) as determined by the syntax.Thus some syntactic o-reference r lationshipssuch as those related to clitics and relativepronouns will be identified before the ILprocedure begins.The second step is to map from the f-structure to the TMR.
A TMR includes, amongother epresentational objects, instantiations ofobject ypes, relation types and property types.These are constructed from ontologicalconcepts which are associated with the lexicalitems in f-structure and which are filled out onthe basis of the surrounding f-structure.For instance, the Spanish verb comprar (tobuy) might be associated with the ontologicalconcept named PURCHASE which is ageneric frame structure corresponding topurchasing events.
It might in part look like:TIME: T \[time\]LOCATION: L \[place\]PURCHASEAGENT: P \[human/organization\]THEME: O \[object\]SOURCE: S \[human/organization\]AMOUNT: C \[currency\]etc.where TIME, LOCATION, AGENT, THEME,human, organization, object, etc.
are allontological concepts.
On some particular useof comprar in a text (or more specifically inthe f-structure representation f a text), thePURCHASE frame is called forth andinstantiated, i.e., indexed and filled in withinstantiated representational objects derivedfrom other ontological concepts associatedwith other lexical items of the surrounding f-structure.For instance, if the f-structure in question isfor:2Roche compra Docteur AndreuRoche and Docteur Andreu will each beassociated with and instantiate an ontologicalconcept for COMPANY.
Such arepresentational element might look like:COMPANYNAME: N \[text\]HEADQUARTERS: H \[office\]BRANCHES: B \[set:office\]SUBSIDIARIES: S \[set:company\]EMPLOYEES: E \[set:human\]SALES: V \[currency\]PROFITS: P-\[currency\],etc.where  ' NAME, HEADQUARTERS,BRANCH, text, office, etc.
are all ontologicalconcepts.
This frame is instantiated accordingto the f-structure context for each of the twoproper names and then the instantiated framesare inserted (actually indexed) appropriately inthe PURCHASE frame.
The result is:COMPANY- 1NAME: Roche \[text\]HEADQUARTERS: \[office\]etc.COMPANY-2NAME: Docteur Andreu \[text\]HEADQUARTERS: \[office\]etc.TIME: dateline-time \[time\]LOCATION: L \[place\]PURCHASE-1AGENT: COMPANY-1 \[humanlorg\]THEME: COMPANY-2 \[object\]SOURCE: S \[human/org\]AMOUNT: C \[currency\]etc.These instantiated representational objects are,in turn, referents in the discourse context whenthe next sentence is processed.
As part of thismapping, the reference of the various f-structure lements is resolved resulting in theaddition of information to certain existing ILobjects (coreference) or in the creation of newIL objects which are added to the domain ofdiscourse (initial reference).
Which occursdepends on whether a connection can beinferred between the current IL object and analready-existing IL object on the basis ofontological or epistemie information.Note that reference resolution is driven bythe process of instantiating TMR objects ratherthan by linguistic forms.
At the same time,various aspects of reference resolution arebeing done on the basis of form.
Certainanaphors are coindexed or differently indexedon the basis of morphosyntax sthe f-structureis being constructed.
Ontological concepts ofsimilar or related type may be called forthduring the mapping of similar or related lexicalitems onto TMR.
Articles and otherdeterminers affect the form of the instantiatedTMR objects corresponding to the NPscontaining them.
Finally, aspects of theinstantiated TMR objects refer to literals suchas the NAME attribute of a COMPANY.These can be used to implement string-matching algorithms.2.2 Approach to ImplementationBecause the target procedure relies on a highlysophisticated, and as yet incomplete, languageanalysis ystem, the approach to implementingit begins by assuming that none of the ILapparatus i  available for processing.
Instead,we implement an initial set of standard, form-based algorithms which vary according to thesyntactic ategory of referring expression.Generally, if the referring expression is aproper noun phrase, a full or partial stringmatch with each prior PN is used to establish aeoreference link.
Otherwise, the PN is assumedto refer to a new referent.
For standardpronominals, a recency algorithm is usedwhich checks the morphosyntactic constraints(gender, number, etc.)
and, if possible, thesemantic lass to filter potential coreferents.When a match is found, the coreference link isestablished.
Common noun phrases follow abifurcated algorithm.
If the noun phrase isindefinite or has no article, then it is assumedto refer to a new referent.
If it is a definitenoun phrase, then the head noun string ismatched against hat of previous NPs.
If theheads of two NPs match and the complement:3strings do not mismatch, the two NPs areassumed to corefer.As the IL analysis system and supportingknowledge bases grow and the ability toproduce appropriate f-structures and TMRs isextended, the target procedures will bearincreasingly more of the resolution task.3 The DataFor this presentation, we focus the discussionon a single Spanish text, a newswire articleconcerning a corporate buyout (see Appendix Ifor the original text and its translation intoEnglish).
It is taken from the ARPA MachineTranslation Evaluation corpus (White et al1994) and contains 347 words, 17 sentencesand 11 paragraphs.There are 144 referring expressionsaltogether including 14 proper noun phrases(9.7%), 76 common oun phrases (52.8%), 20pronominal-like expressions (13.9%), 31verbal expressions (21.5%) and 3 prepositionalphrases (2.1%).
Of the common oun phrases(NP), 43 were definite NPs, 8 were indefiniteNPs and 25 NPs had no explicit determiner.
Ofthe pronominal expressions, 12 were pronouns(Pron) or deicties such as hey (today), aqui(here) or ahora (now), 3 were ellipted (subject)pronouns (PRO) and 5 were definite articleswhich function as possessive adjectives (Det \[=Pron\]) as in:E l  beneficio neto ... se elev6 ....The\[= Its\] net profits ... increased ....However, there are in addition 129 implicitreferences made which need to be resolved aswell.
Implicit references are those that areimplied by the slots of TMR objects.
They maybe of unexpressed participants ofan event (say,a seller in a PURCHASE event), orunexpressed times or locations of events.Altogether, then, there are 273 references ofwhich 52.75% are explicit and an almost equalamount, 47.25%, are implicit.
Taking theimplicit references into account, the propernoun phrases (PN) represent 5.1% of thereferring expressions, the common nounphrases NP about 27.8%, pronominal-likeexpressions 7.3%, verbal expressions 11.4%and prepositional phrases about 1.1%.
Theseresults are summarized in Tables I and 2.As for referents, there are 138 altogether.
Ofthese 108 (78.25%) are referred to explicitlyon at least one occasion while 30 (21.75%) arereferred to implicitly only.
There are 40 (29%)referents hat are referred to more than once, ofTotalReferencesExplicitReferencesImplicitReferences273 144 129100% 52.75% 47.25%Table 1.
Total referencesProper Comn Prons Vrbls PrepNouns Nouns Phrases14 76 20 31 39.7% 52.8% 13.9% 21.5% 2.1%Table 2.
Types of Explicit Referenceswhich 31 (77.5%) are explicitly referred to atsome point and 9 (22.5%) are implicitlyreferred to only.Thus, there were 135 eoreferences altogether(273 total references- 138 referents), 41explicit coreferences and 94 implicitcoreferences.
Of the explicit coreferences, 9were made by PNs, 10 by NPs, 20 bypronominal-like expressions (12 by Prons, 3 byPROs, 5 by Dets \[= Pron\]) and 2 by verbalexpressions.It is perhaps of some interest that very few ofthese references were figurative, that is,metonymic or metaphorical.
There was oneclearly metonymic reference, and one or twoother possible metonymie r ferences.4.4 Reference ResolutionWhat follows here is a discussion of what isneeded to resolve the 273 references made inthe example Spanish text.
In each section, thecases that could be handled by a form-basedmethod are discussed, then cases that wouldrequire an IL-based approach for resolution.4.1 Resolving Proper Noun PhrasesAs mentioned, there are 14 PNs in the sampletext, 9.7% of the explicit referring expressionsor 5.1% of all references.
In addition, therewere 4 cases of common oun phrases whichwere in apposition with proper noun phrasesand which will be considered here as well.For PNs, the basic resolution strategy is tomatch the form of the expression with that ofeach of the PNs used previously.
If there is amatch, assume the current PN is being used tocorefer to the referent of the matching PN.This applies in 4 of 18 cases.
If no match isfound, attempt a partial positive form match.That is, if any part of either form for whichthere is a partial match does not match acorresponding substring in the other form, thenthe match fails.
Thus, El grupo Roche matchesRoche and Productos Roche SA also matchesRoche because there is no substring of thephrase Roche that does not match with El?
grupo or Productos.
On the other hand,Productos Roche SA does NOT match Elgrupo Roche because Productos does notmatch El grupo.
This handles 3 further cases ofthe 18 (assuming that having matched El grupoRoche with Roche, Productos Roche SA willnot match because it does not match with Elgrupo Roche).If no positive partial match can be found, it isassumed that the PN is not being used tocorefer to an existing referent and introduces anew referent.
This takes care of 9 additionalcases.This basic PN resolution procedure, then,handles 16 of the 18 PNs (89%).
That leaves 2cases which it will not handle, Doctor Andreucoreferring to Docteur Andreu and ProductosRoche SA coreferring to su compa~ia enEspa~aThe second problem is not all that rare.Here, the PN is being used to corefer to areferent that was initially introduced by acommon noun phrase.
The first step is toidentify the semantic lass of the PN, possiblythrough some independent PN classifyingprocedure or possibly by looking at anysemantic constraints that arise from thecontext.
In the case of Productos Roche SA,for instance, it might be classed as aCOMPANY by some independent PNclassifying procedure, say, on the basis of theSA, or by inspecting its context.... la operaci6n realizada entre... the transaction carried out betweenProductos Roche SA y Uni6n ExplosivosProductos Roche SA and Uni6n ExplosivoRio...Rio ...In example (1), the expression la operaci6n isused to refer to some transaction that, as thetext goes on to report, was carried out betweenProductos Roche and Uni6n Explosivos RioTinto.
If transactions are carried out bycompanies (general semantic knowledge), thenProductos Roche and Uni6n Explosivos mustbe companies.Having established the semantic ategory ofProduetos Roche, the next step is to establish aplausible connection between Productos Rocheand an established referent of the samesemantic ategory.
That is, the procedure isnow to inspect all the established referents ofthe category COMPANY (i.e., the Rochegroup, Doctor Andreu and Roche's company inSpain).
We know from prior text that Rochebought Doctor Andreu and that Rocheacquired Doctor Andreu through its subsidiaryin Spain (epistemie knowledge).
From thecurrent ext, we know that Productos Rocheand Uni6n Explosivos were actually involvedin the transaction and that Uni6n Explosivehad been a majority shareholder but, byimplication, no longer is (epistemicknowledge).
Thus, Uni6n Explosivos appearsto be the seller and, by implication, ProductosRoche could be the buyer, i.e., Roche'scompany in Spain.The same procedure can be used toestablishing that the reference of DoctorAndreu is the same as that ofDocteur Andreu:establish the semantic lass of Doctor Andreu,inspect each existing referent of that class to5see whether or not a plausible connection canbe established.4.2 Resolving PronominalsIn the sample Spanish text, there are 19pronominal expressions, 13.9% of the explicitreferring expressions or7.3% of all references.Of these, there are 15 explicit forms and 4ellipted forms.
The 15 explicit forms include 6possessive pronouns, 4 deictie adverbials and 5definite articles.
The 4 ellipted forms include 3eilipted subjects of finite verbs and 1 elliptedhead of a relative complementizer.#.2.1 Explicit pronounsThe basic form-based strategy for resolvingpronominal reference is to begin by inspectingin reverse order of mention those referringexpressions whose forms are compatible withthe morphological constraints imposed by thepronominal.
This strategy is usuallyconstrained by various yntactic heuristics suchas that a non-reflexive pronoun in objectposition cannot corefer to the subject or apronominal complement of a noun cannotcorefer to the head (e.g., Ferrfindez et al1998).
Such a resolution procedure willaccount for 4 of the 6 cases (66%) in thesample text.To resolve the remaining cases, it isnecessary to check the referent of theantecedent to see whether it is semanticallycompatible with the contextual function of theanaphor.
So, for instance, in resolving thereference ofsu (its, his, her or their) in:El beneficio neto -el mejor de suThe\[=its\] net profits the best in itshistoria- se elev6 a 641,5 millones dehistory increased to 641.5 millionj '~ 'anco3  .
.
.Francs ...the procedure is to first shuffle back throughthe referring expressions until a third personform is encountered.
Here, the first thirdperson referring expression isEl beneficio neto(some company's net profits).
The procedurenext needs to establish through infereneing thatthe referent of El beneficio neto can serve thefunction of the anaphor su, that is, can have ahistory.
In this case, a plausible inferencecannot be established, and so the proceduremoves on to consider the next most recentlymentioned referent, he Roche group which isbeing referred to by the E1 of El beneficio netowhich is being used to express a possessorrelation.
Here, on the basis of ontologicalknowledge about what companies can orcannot have, su is understood as coreferring tothe referent of El.4.2.2 Ellipted pronominalsFor the ellipted pronominals in the sampleSpanish text, syntax will have to identify suchellipted elements in order to trigger thereference resolution process.
However, onceidentified, the basic strategy described abovefor explicit pronouns hould apply unalteredalthough, unlike possessive pronouns, themorphological constraints of the anaphor mustbe extracted from the morphosyntactic context.So, for instance, the ellipted subject of:... cuenta PRO con compa~las en m6s... has companies in morede 50 paises ...than 50 countries ...must be a third person singular eferent (giventhe conjugation of the verb cuenta).
In thiscase, the basic resolution procedure correctlyresolves 2 of the 4 eases (50%).For the remainder, the semantic function ofthe ellipted element is also extracted fromcontext, i.e., it functions as the subject ofcontar con compa~ias (has companies).
Thus,in the example above, it must be somethingthat can own companies.
Among the thirdsingular candidate expressions, in reverseorder of mention: el diagn6stico (diagnosis), lacomercializaci6n (the marketing), laproducci6n (the manufacture), el desarrollo(the development), Basilea (Suiza) (Basel,Switzerland) and sede central (home office),none are potential owners of companies.
Thenext most remote referring expression to beinspected is el grupo Roche (the Roche Group)which, as it turns out, is something that canown companies and, therefore, the PRO isidentified as coreferring to the same referent.64.2.3 Deictic ElementsDeictic elements, such as the adverbs hey(today), aqui (here), ahora (now), and so on,are resolved directly to properties of theutterance context: the day of utterance, theplace of utterance, the time of utterance, and soon.
There were 4 such pronouns in the sampletext, 3 referring (hey, aqul, ahora") and 1coreferring (hey).
It should be noted that allthese elements are, in fact, coreferent withimplicit temporal and spatial references ofvarious finite verbs that are used to reportcertain events or states of affairs.4.2.4 Articles with pronominal forcePerhaps the most contentious of thepronominal elements to be discussed here arethe definite articles of noun phrases which Canbe contextually interpreted as having the forceof possessive adjectives.
There are 6 examplesof this in the sample text.
However, these areby no means all the definite articles found and,in addition, of these six example, four weretranslated as possessive adjectives, one as adefinite article, the, and one was omittedaltogether in translation.
In other words, notonly is an ambiguity introduced for a verycommon lexical item, but even when resolvedin favor of the possessor interpretation, it maynot be translated as a possessive adjective.
Onthe other hand, the major reason for assuming adistinction is that it is very important oestablish such relationships in order tounderstand or translate a document.
Forinstance, if it is not established that the cashflow referred to in:El "cash flow" se increraent6 en un 21its cash flow increased by about 21per ciento ...per cent ...is that of company X, then it will be impossibleto determine whether the cash flow referred tolater in the text in:... y el "cash f low" de ...... and its cash flow ...is that of company X or of some othercompany.
That means that such informationwill not only be unavailable for use duringtranslation (e.g., selecting a possessiveadjective in the target language) but for anyother purpose that might come along (e.g.,information extraction).In any case, the procedure for resolving thereference of definite articles is the basicpronominal resolution procedure except hat nomorphological constraints can be placed on theantecedent expression.
Still, syntacticconstraints on the antecedent may be applied.Following this strategy, 5 of the 6 cases (83%)are resolved correctly although it is not clearwhether it leads to false positives.
Otherwise,potential referents are considered until one isfound which can serve the appropriatepossessor function.
Since a positive connectionmust be inferred, the likelihood of falsepositives is greatly decreased.4.3 Resolving Common Noun PhrasesIf proper noun phrases and pronominals werethe only type of referring expressions, form-based resolution techniques might provesufficient.
They account, however, for only23.6% of the explicit referring expression or12.4% of all references.
It is for the resolutionof common oun phrases, clauses and implicitreferences that an interlingual-based procedurewill eventually prove necessary.There are 76 common noun expressions insample Spanish text.
Of these 42 are definitenoun phrases (32 referring, 10 coreferring), 9are indefinite noun phrases (all 9 referring),and 25 are noun phrases having no article (all25 referring).Since none of the indefinite noun phrases orthe noun phrases without articles are used tocorefer, an initial basic resolution strategy forcommon oun phrases begins by inspecting theform of the referring expression.
If it is anindefinite noun phrase or noun phrase withoutarticle, it is assumed to refer to something newand a new referent is added to the referents inthe domain of discourse.
That successfullyresolves the reference of 34 of the 76 commonnoun phrases (45%) in the text.Of the 42 definite noun phrases, 36 are usedto refer (or corefer) to specific individuals orstuff or are inferrably unique given a generalknowledge of individuals, stuff or situationsthat were being discussed.
Of these 36, 24were used to refer to particular individuals orstuff, 8 to processes, 2 to particular groups ofobjects and 2 to logically unique objects.
Ofthe remaining 6 definite noun phrases, 4 wereused to refer to portions (percentages) of stuffand 2 were used to refer to generic lasses.In regard to the resolution of definite nounphrases, then, the basic strategy is to firstidentify whether the expression is being usedto refer to specific individuals or stuff, toportions (percentages) of stuff or, if possible,to a generic lass.
So, for instance, given theexpression el 7, 4 por ciento in:la rentabilidad sobre las ventas aument6its profit "over sales increaseddel 6,3 al 7,4 por ciento.from 6.3 to 7.4 per centit is sufficient to identify that the expression isbeing used to refer to a percentage (of sales) inorder to assume the the expression is used torefer to something new.
Identifying a genericreference on the basis of form is less obviousbut, in any case, this will resolve 4 to 6 of the42 cases.Second, for the 36 definite noun phrases usedto refer to a particular individual or stuff, thebasic procedure is to match the head nounexpression against each of the common nounexpressions that have been used previously.
Ifone is found, the complement expressions arethen matched.
If these are compatible, the NPunder consideration is assumed to eorefer tothe referent of the matching NP.
This willsuccessfully resolve 27 of the 36 eases (75%)but leaves 9 incorrectly resolved, 5 setting upnew referents when in fact they are coreferringand 4 false positive ases ofcoreference.The third step, then, is to inspect eachreferent for semantic ompatibility.
Semanticinformation is established on the basis of theexpression's form and context.
For instance, inlooking for a possible referent for larentabilidad sobre las ventas (its profit oversales ratio) above, it is first necessary toestablish that the potential referent must besome measurement of financial performancewhich has increased uring some particularperiod of time for some particular company.At the time a reference for la rentabilidadsobre las ventas is sought, there are some 98existing referents (53 objects, 34 events, 11implicit objects).
The more recent of theseinclude "641.5 million Swiss Francs", "RocheGroup's net profit", "Roche Group'spharmaceutical division", "41% of RocheGroup's total sales", "8.69 billion SwissFrancs", "Roche Group's total sales", "1988"and so on.
Of these, only "Roche Group's netprofit" and "Roche Group's total sales" arepossible measurements of a company'sfinancial performance.
However, both thesemeasurements should be ontologically distinctfrom a company's profit over sales as well asfrom each other.
Thus, they fail to satisfy thesemantic requirements of a potential referentfor the expression.
In the end, no semanticallyappropriate referent will be found among thepool of existing referents and so a new referentis introduced to the pool.If an existing referent meets theinformational constraints on potential referentof the expression being processed, theexpression is assumed to refer to that referent.If no existing referent satisfies thoseconstraints, the expression is assumed to referto something new and a new referent is addedto the pool of referents.4.2.4 Resolving ClausesNoun phrases, of course, are not the only typeof constituent that is used to refer to things inthe world.
Clauses may be used to refer (orcorefer) to particular events or states-of-affairsor to classes of events or states-of-affairs.These may be finite (main, relative,complement or adverbial clauses), participials(present or passive), infinitival or absolutive.Of the 45 events referred to in the text, therewere 3 events that were referred to on morethan one occasion.
The first, the purchasing ofDoctor Andreu, was coreferred to 4 times.
Butof these, only one was by way of a (finite)clause.
The other three were all by way of NPs,2 explicit and 1 impli~zit.
The second, theannouncing of the purchase, was coreferred toonly once by way of a NP.
The third, Roche'sinvesting in R&D, was coreferred to once byway of an implicit pro-verb introduced forsyntactic reasons in the context of a parallel,conjoined structure.8The only form-based resolution procedurefor resolving clausal reference would be tolook for prior verbs having the same form andthen inspecting the complements forcontradictions.
This procedure might beextended by inspecting prior verb forms thatare related by, say, Spanish WordNet(Rodrfguez, 1998) or an on-line Spanishthesaurus (if any should exist).
However, thisextension could also open the door to manyfalse positives.Such an approach might possibly resolve asmany as 26 of the 27 cases of clausalrefei'ences to events or states of affairscorrectly.
In any case, an IL-based approachhas the advantage of having the eventsmentioned in prior text already representedformally aid in a language neutral form.
Thus,the need for additional on-line resources foreach language isassuaged.4.2.5 Resolving Implicit ReferencesAs mentioned, there were 45 events or states-of-affairs referred to in the sample Spanish textwhich introduce an additional 30 impliedreferents (5 times, 22 places and 3 actors).These events, and the implicit referents theyintroduce, need to be identified for successfullycarrying out the coreference task.
They mayact as referents that are later referred to in thetext or they may serve to assist in constrainingor establishing coreference between laterexpressions and other existing referents.
Forinstance, of the 22 implied locations, 6are laterreferred to in the text and, of the 5 impliedtimes, 3 are later referred to.Clearly, there is no obvious form-basedresolution procedure for such elements, sincethey have no explicit form.
Thus, in order toresolve these implicitly introduced referents,the basic procedure is to treat them aspronominals.
That is, every event or state-of-affairs in the TMR has an implicit "at thattime" and "at that place" associated with itwhich has to be resolved as part of thereference task.
Beyond the fact that thepotential referents must times and locationsrespectively, any further constraints will haveto be derived from what is known about theevent and about its relative (temporal or local)status with respect o the other .events whichhave previously been mentioned.
A primarysource of information for dealing with suchissues will be scripts (Schank & Ableson,1977).
Similarly, the identification of impliedactors will be dependent on the ontological(not lexical) definitions of the class of event orstate-of-affairs eferred to and any additionalinformation that may be extracted from theparticular events or states-of-affairs that havebeen previously mentioned.Given the informational constraints gathered,the procedure is then to inspect referents oflike type (time, location, actor type) in reverseorder of mention until one is found which iscompatible with those additional informationalconstraints.ConclusionThe advantages of the interlingual approach toreference resolution include the following:?
only expressions related to actual referentsare processed for coreference (i.e., nopleonastic pronouns, no clitic pronouns, norelative pronouns, etc.),?
implicit as well as explicit referents areprocesses for coreference,?
knowledge-based inferencing (bothontological and epistemic) is available forresolving (many) problematical cases,?
ontologically connected actors, say, thedifferent participants in a sequence ofevents making up a script, can be used toestablish coreference,?
texts in different languages can beprocessed in the same way,?
all form-based procedures either are or canbe implemented in any ease.The central disadvantages are:?
some surface text level orderinginformation is lost in the TMR,?
discourse-structural information may belost in the TMR, .
.?
the need for a large and sophisticatedknowledge sources,?
the need for sound and appropriately-directed inferencing..As a result of the loss of ordering information,strict recency-based resolution procedurescannot be implemented.
The referents in thedomain are not ordered in terms of when they9were introduced.
The processing of thedifferent arguments in f-structure does notnecessarily correspond to the surface sequenceof their mention.
This "defect" could possiblybe overcome by simply indexing each new theTMR object with the prior index plus one(assuming the indexes are integers).
The tacitassumption is that, at the level of the clause,first the predicate is processed and then thearguments are processed in left to right orderas they appear in f-structure.As for the lack of information about thediscourse structure, it may be the ease that thisis a defect of the TMR representation system.That is to say, it is not unreasonable to assumethat the larger orgafiisational spects of a text,the topics, their order of presentation, thestructure of the argumentation, etc., should infact be captured in any adequate representationof the text.
It has been, however, the goal ofTMR to focus on capturing the informationcontent exclusively and not on how theinformation ispresented.ReferencesBagga, A., and B. Baldwin.
1998.
Entity-BasedCross-Document Coreferencing Using theVector-Space Model.
Proceedings of the 36 ~hAnnual Meeting of the Association o fComputational Linguistics and the 1 7,~Conference on Computational Linguistics,Montreal, Canada.Carlson, L., and S. Nirenburg.
1990.
WorldModeling for NLP.
Technical Report 90-121.Center for Machine Translation, Carnegie MellonUniversity, Pittsburgh, PA.Ferrfindez, A., M. Palomar, and L. Moreno.
1998.Anaphora resolution in unrestricted texts withpartial parsing.
Proceedings of the 36 th AnnualMeeting of the Association of ComputationalLinguistics and the I 7 ~h Conference onComputational Linguistics, Montreal, Canada.DeJong, G. 1979.
Skimming stories in real time: anexperiment in integrated understanding.
Ph.D.dissertation.
Research report #158, Dept.
ofComputer Science, Yale University, New Haven,CT.Grosz, B., A. Joshi, and S. Weinstein.
1995.Centering: A Framework for Modeling the LocalCoherence of Discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 21(2): 203-225.Hirschman, L., P. Robinson, J. Burger, and M.Vilain.
1998.
Automating Coreference: The Roleof Annotated Training Data.
Proceedings ofAAAI 98 Spring Symposium on ApplyingMachine Learning to Discourse Processing.Hobbs, J.
1979.
Coherence and Coreference.Cognitive Science 3: 67-90.Lappin, S., and H. Leass.
1994.
An Algorithm forPronominal Anaphora Resolution.
ComputationalLinguistics, 20(4), 535-56 I.Mahesh, K., and S. Nirenburg.
1995.
A SituatedOntology for Practical NLP.
Proceedings of theWorkshop on Basic Ontological lssues inKnowledge Sharing, International JointConference on Artificial Intelligence.
Montr6al,Canada.MUC-7.
1998.
Proceedings of the Seventh MessageUnderstanding Conference, April 1998.Onyshkevych, B., and S. Nirenburg.
(1994).
TheLexicon in the Scheme of KBMT Things.Memoranda inCognitive and Computer Science:MCCS 94-277, Computing Research Laboratory,New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM.Popescu-Belis, A.
1998.
How Corpora withAnotated Coreferenee Links Improve ReferenceResolution.
In Rubio, A., N. Gallardo, R. Castro& A. Tejada (eds.)
Proceedings of the firstInternational Conference on Language Resourceand Evaluation, pp.
567-571.
Granada, Spain,May 1998.Rodrfguez, H., S. Climent, P. Vossen, L. Bloksma,W.Peters, A. Alonge, F. Bertagna, and A.Roventini.
1998.
The Top-Down Strategy forBuilding EuroWordNet: Vocabulary Coverage,Base Concepts and Top Ontology.
Computersand the Humanities, 32(2/3): 117-152Sehank, R., and R. Abelson.
1977.
Scripts, plans,goals, and understanding.
Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates: Hillsdale, NJ.Sundheim, B., and R. Grishman (eds.).
1995.
SixthMessage Understanding Conference (MUC-6).San Francisco: Morgan Kaufman.White, J., T. O'Connell and F. O'Mara.
1994.
TheARPA MT Evaluation Methodologies: Evolution,Lessons, and Future Approaches, in TechnologyPartnerships for Crossing the Language Barrier:Proceedings of the First Conference of theAssociation for Machine Translation in theAmericas, Columbia, MD, pp.
193-205.10AppendixSpanish Evaluation Text 93-1Roche Compra Docteur AndreuEl grupo Roche, a trav6s de su compafila en Espafla,adquiri6 el laboratorio farmac6utico Doctor Andreu,se inform6 hoy aqut.La comunicaci6n oficial no precis6 el monto dela operaci6n realizada entre Productos Roche SAyUni6n Explosivos Rio Tinto SA, hasta ahoramayoritaria en el accionariado.Fuentes financieras consultadas cifraron la0peraci6n en unos I0.000 millones de pesetas.Seg~n el acuerdo firmado hoy en Madrid, losproductos del Doctor Andreu continuarin siendoproducidos y comercializados con el mismonombre.
Doctor Andreu, cuya fama la obtuvo apartir de las "pastillitas" para la tos, estfi bienintroducido en las ireas de cardiologla,reumatologla y especialidades publicitarias.Las actividades del grupo Roche, con sede centralen Basilea (Suiza), incluyen el desarrollo, laproducci6n y la comercializaci6n de medicamentos,productos para el diagn6stico, as| como devitaminas y productos qulmicos.A nivel mundial, cuenta con compafiias en milsde 50 pafses con casi 50.000 empleados.
DoctorAndreu es una compaflia farmac6utica dedicada  laproducci6n y comercializaci6n de ffirmacos yproductos veterinarios.
Con sede en Barcelona,cuenta con mfiSs de 400 empleados.En el ejercicio pasado factur6 unos 3.490millones de pesetas.En 1988, el Grupo Roche alcanz6 unas ventastotales de 8.690 millones de francos suizos, de lasque aproximadamente un 41 por cientocorrespondieron a su divisi6n farmac6utica.
E!beneficio nero -el mejor de su historia- se elev6 a641,5 millones de francos suizos y la rentabilidadsobre las ventas aument6 del 6,3 al 7,4 por ciento.El "cash flow" se increment6 en un 21 por ciento,alcanzando 1.179 miilones de francos o el 14 poreiento de las ventas del grupo.Las inversiones en investigaci6n y desarrollo(I+D) fueron de 1.210 millones de francos uizos, el14 pot ciento del total de sus ventas.Productos Roche cuenta con una plantilla de 600personas y alcanz6 unas ventas totales de 9.747millones de pesetas, un 12,5 por ciento superiores alafio 1987.Sus beneficios fueron de 218 millones y el "cashflow" de 356 millones.
Las inversiones realizadastotalizaron 223 millones de pesetas.English Translation of Text 93-1Roche Buys Docteur AndreuThe Roche Group acquired the pharmaceuticallaboratory Doctor Andreu through its company inSpain, it was announced here today.The official announcement did not specify theexact amount of the transaction which took placebetween Productos Roche SA and Uni6nExplosivos Rio Tinto SA, which until now had heldthe mayority of the stock.Financial sources consulted estimate thetransaction value at around 10 million pesetas.According to the agreement signed today inMadrid, Doctor Andreu's products will continue tobe produced and marketed under the same name.Doctor Andreu, which became well known for itscough drops, is well established in the areas ofcardiology, rheumatology, and advertisingspecialties.Activities of the Roche Group, headquartered inBasel (Switzerland), include the development,production, and marketing of drugs, diagnosticproducts, as well as vitamins and chemicalproducts.The Roche Group has subsidiaries in more than50 countries and almost 50,000 employeesworldwide.
Doctor Andreu is a pharmaceuticalcompany which produces and markets medicinesand veterinary products.
Headquartered inBarcelona, ithas more than 400 employees.In the last fiscal year its sales totaled some 3.49billion pesetas.In 1988, the Roche Group's total sales reached8.69 billion Swiss francs, of which approximately41 per cent corresponded to its pharmaceuticaldivision.
Its net profits--the best in its history--went up to 641.5 million Swiss francs and theprofitability over sales increased from 6.3 to 7.4 percent.Its cash flow increased by 21 per cent, to 1.179billion francs or 14 per cent oft.he group's ales.Investments in research and development (R&D)totaled 1.210 billion Swiss ffi'ancs or 14 per cent oftotal sales.Productos Roche employs 600 people and itstotal sales reached 9.747 billion pesetas, 12.5 percent more than in 1987.Its profits totaled 218 million and its cash flow356 million.
Actual investments totaled 223million pesetas.11
