A Multilingual Approach to Annotatingand Extracting Temporal Information1George WilsonInderjeet Mani2The MITRE Corporation,W64011493 Sunset Hills RoadReston, VA 20190-5214USAgwilson@mitre.orgimani@mitre.orgBeth SundheimSPAWAR Systems Center,D44208, 53140 Gatchell Rd.San Diego, CA 92152-7420USAsundheim@spawar.navy.milLisa FerroThe MITRE Corporation,K329, 202 Burlington RoadBedford, MA 01730-1420USAlferro@mitre.org1 This work has been funded by DARPA?s Translingual Information Detection, Extraction, and Summarization (TIDES)research program, under contract number DAA-B07-99-C-C201 and ARPA Order H049.2 Also at the Department of Linguistics, Georgetown University, Washington, DC 20037.AbstractThis paper introduces a set ofguidelines for annotating timeexpressions with a canonicalizedrepresentation of the times they referto, and describes methods forextracting such time expressions frommultiple languages.1 IntroductionThe processing of temporal information posesnumerous challenges for NLP.
Progress on thesechallenges may be accelerated through the useof corpus-based methods.
This paper introducesa set of guidelines for annotating timeexpressions with a canonicalized representationof the times they refer to, and describes methodsfor extracting such time expressions frommultiple languages.
Applications that canbenefit include information extraction (e.g.,normalizing temporal references for databaseentry), question answering (answering ?when?questions), summarization (temporally orderinginformation), machine translation (translatingand normalizing temporal references), andinformation visualization (viewing eventchronologies).Our annotation scheme, described indetail in (Ferro et al 2000), has several novelfeatures, including the following:It goes well beyond the one used in the MessageUnderstanding Conference (MUC7 1998), notonly in terms of the range of expressions that areflagged, but, also, more importantly, in terms ofrepresenting and normalizing the time valuesthat are communicated by the expressions.In addition to handling fully-specified timeexpressions (e.g., September 3rd, 1997), it alsohandles context-dependent expressions.
This issignificant because of the ubiquity of context-dependent time expressions; a recent corpusstudy (Mani and Wilson 2000) revealed thatmore than two-thirds of time expressions in printand broadcast news were context-dependentones.
The context can be local (within the samesentence), e.g., In 1995, the months of June andJuly were devilishly hot, or global (outside thesentence), e.g., The hostages were beheaded thatafternoon.
A subclass of these context-dependent expressions are ?indexical?expressions, which require knowing when thespeaker is speaking to determine the intendedtime value, e.g., now, today, yesterday,tomorrow, next Tuesday, two weeks ago, etc.The annotation scheme has beendesigned to meet the following criteria:?
Simplicity with precision: We have tried tokeep the scheme simple enough to beexecuted confidently by humans, and yetprecise enough for use in various naturallanguage processing tasks.?
Naturalness: We assume that the annotationscheme should reflect those distinctions thata human could be expected to reliablyannotate, rather than reflecting anartificially-defined smaller set ofdistinctions that automated systems mightbe expected to make.
This means that someaspects of the annotation will be wellbeyond the reach of current systems.?
Expressiveness:  The guidelines require thatone specify time values as fully as possible,within the bounds of what can beconfidently inferred by annotators.
The useof ?parameters?
and the representation of?granularity?
(described below) are tools tohelp ensure this.?
Reproducibility: In addition to leveragingthe (ISO-8601 1997) format for representingtime values, we have tried to ensureconsistency among annotators by providingan example-based approach, with eachguideline closely tied to specific examples.While the representation accommodatesboth points and intervals, the guidelines areaimed at using the point representation tothe extent possible, further helping enforceconsistency.The annotation process is decomposed into twosteps: flagging a temporal expression in adocument (based on the presence of specificlexical trigger words), and identifying the timevalue that the expression designates, or that thespeaker intends for it to designate.
The flaggingof temporal expressions is restricted to thosetemporal expressions which contain a reservedtime word used in a temporal sense, called a?lexical trigger?, which include words like day,week, weekend, now, Monday, current, future,etc.2 Interlingual Representation2.1 IntroductionAlthough the guidelines were developed withdetailed examples drawn from English (alongwith English-specific tokenization rules andguidelines for determining tag extent), thesemantic representation we use is intended foruse across languages.
This will permit thedevelopment of temporal taggers for differentlanguages trained using a common annotationscheme.It will also allow for new methods forevaluating machine translation of temporalexpressions at the level of interpretation as wellas at the surface level.
As discussed in(Hirschman et al 2000), time expressionsgenerally fall into the class of so-called namedentities, which includes proper names andvarious kinds of numerical expressions.
Thetranslation of named entities is less variablestylistically than the translation of general text,and once predictable variations due todifferences in transliteration, etc.
are accountedfor, the alignment of the machine-translatedexpressions with a reference translationproduced by a human can readily beaccomplished.
A variant of the word-errormetric used to evaluate the output of automaticspeech transcription can then be applied toproduce an accuracy score.
In the case of ourcurrent work on temporal expressions, it willalso be possible to use the normalized timevalues to participate in the alignment andscoring.2.2 Semantic DistinctionsThree different kinds of time values arerepresented: points in time (answering thequestion ?when??
), durations (answering ?howlong??
), and frequencies (answering ?howoften??).?
Points in time are calendar dates and times-of-day, or a combination of both, e.g.,Monday 3 pm, Monday next week, a Friday,early Tuesday morning, the weekend.
Theseare all represented with values (the tagattribute VAL) in the ISO format, whichallows for representation of date of themonth, month of the year, day of the week,week of the year, and time of day, e.g.,<TIMEX2 VAL=?2000-11-29T16:30?>4:30 p.m. yesterday afternoon</TIMEX2>.?
Durations also use the ISO format torepresent a period of time.
When only theperiod of time is known, the value isrepresented as a duration, e.g., <TIMEX2VAL=?P3D?>a three-day </TIMEX2>visit.?
Frequencies reference sets of time pointsrather than particular points.
SET andGRANULARITY attributes are used forsuch expressions, with the PERIODICITYattribute being used for regularly recurringtimes, e.g., <TIMEX2 VAL=?XXXX-WXX-2?
SET=?YES?
PERIODICITY=?F1W?GRANULARITY=?G1D?>everyTuesday</TIMEX2>.Here ?F1W?
means frequency of once a week,and the granularity ?G1D?
means the setmembers are counted in day-sized units.The annotation scheme also addresses severalsemantic problems characteristic of temporalexpressions:?
Fuzzy boundaries.
Expressions likeSaturday morning and Fall are fuzzy in theirintended value with respect to when the timeperiod starts and ends; the early 60?s isfuzzy as to which part of the 1960?s isincluded.
Our format for representing timevalues includes parameters such as FA (forFall), EARLY (for early, etc.
),PRESENT_REF (for today, current, etc.
),among others.
For example, we have<TIMEX2 VAL=?1990-SU?>Summer of1990</TIMEX2>.
Fuzziness in modifiers isalso represented, e.g., <TIMEX2VAL=?1990?
MOD=?BEFORE?>morethan a decade ago</TIMEX2>.
The intenthere is that a given application may chooseto assign specific values to these parametersif desired; the guidelines themselves don?tdictate the specific values.?
Non-Specificity.
Our scheme directs theannotator to represent the values, wherepossible, of temporal expressions that do notindicate a specific time.
These non-specificexpressions include generics, which state ageneralization or regularity of some kind,e.g., <TIMEX2 VAL=?XXXX-04?NON_SPECIFIC=?YES?>April</TIMEX>is usually wet, and non-specific indefinites,like <TIMEX2 VAL="1999-06-XX"NON_SPECIFIC="YES?
GRANULARITY="G1D">a sunny day in <TIMEX2VAL="199906">June</TIMEX2></TIMEX2>.3 Reference CorpusBased on the guidelines, we have arranged for 6subjects to annotate an English reference corpus,consisting of 32,000 words of a telephone dialogcorpus ?
English translations of the ?Enthusiast?corpus of Spanish meeting scheduling dialogsused at CMU and by (Wiebe et al 1998), 35,000words of New York Times newspaper text and120,000 words of broadcast news (TDT2 1999).This corpus will soon be made available to theresearch community.4 Time Tagger System4.1 ArchitectureThe tagging program takes in a document whichhas been tokenized into words and sentences andtagged for part-of-speech.
The program passeseach sentence first to a module that flags timeexpressions, and then to another module (SC)that resolves self-contained (i.e., ?absolute?
)time expressions.
Absolute expressions aretypically processed through a lookup table thattranslates them into a point or period that can bedescribed by the ISO standard.The program then takes the entiredocument and passes it to a discourse processingmodule (DP) which resolves context-dependent(i.e., ?relative?)
time expressions (indexicals aswell as other expressions).
The DP moduletracks transitions in temporal focus, usingsyntactic clues and various other knowledgesources.The module uses a notion of ReferenceTime to help resolve context-dependentexpressions.
Here, the Reference Time is thetime a context-dependent expression is relativeto.
The reference time (italicized here) musteither be described (as in ?a week fromWednesday?)
or implied (as in ?three days ago[from today]?).
In our work, the reference timeis assigned the value of either the TemporalFocus or the document (creation) date.
TheTemporal Focus is the time currently beingtalked about in the narrative.
The initialreference time is the document date.4.2 Assignment of Time ValuesWe now discuss the assigning of values toidentified time expressions.
Times which arefully specified are tagged with their value, e.g,?June 1999?
as 1999-06 by the SC module.
TheDP module uses an ordered sequence of rules tohandle the context-dependent expressions.
Thesecover the following cases:?
Explicit offsets from reference time:indexicals like ?yesterday?, ?today?,?tomorrow?, ?this afternoon?, etc., areambiguous between a specific and a non-specific reading.
The specific use(distinguished from the generic one bymachine learned rules discussed in (Maniand Wilson 2000)) gets assigned a valuebased on an offset from the reference time,but the generic use does not.
For example, if?fall?
is immediately preceded by ?last?
or?next?, then ?fall?
is seasonal  (97.3%accurate rule).
If ?fall?
is followed 2 wordsafter by a year expression, then ?fall?
isseasonal (86.3% accurate).?
Positional offsets from reference time:Expressions like ?next month?, ?last year?and ?this coming Thursday?
use lexicalmarkers (underlined) to describe thedirection and magnitude of the offset fromthe reference time.?
Implicit offsets based on verb tense:Expressions like ?Thursday?
in ?the actiontaken Thursday?, or bare month names like?February?
are passed to rules that try todetermine the direction of the offset fromthe reference time, and the magnitude of theoffset.
The tense of a neighboring verb isused to decide what direction to look toresolve the expression.?
Further use of lexical markers:  Otherexpressions lacking a value are examinedfor the nearby presence of a few additionalmarkers, such as ?since?
and ?until?, thatsuggest the direction of the offset.?
Nearby Dates:  If a direction from thereference time has not been determined,some dates, like ?Feb.
14?, and otherexpressions that indicate a particular date,like ?Valentine?s Day?, may still beuntagged because the year has not beendetermined.
If the year can be chosen in away that makes the date in question lessthan a month from the reference date, thatyear is chosen.
Dates more than a monthaway are not assigned values by this rule.4.3 Time Tagging PerformanceThe system performance on a test set of 221articles from the print and broadcast newssection of the reference corpus (the test set had atotal of 78,171 words) is shown in Table 13.Note that if the human said the tag had no value,and the system decided it had a value,  this istreated as  an error.
A baseline of just taggingvalues of absolute, fully specified expressions(e.g., ?January 31st, 1999?)
is shown forcomparison in parentheses.Type HumanFoundCorrectSystemFoundSystemCorrectF-measureTIMEX2 728 719 696 96.2VAL 728 719 602(234)83.2(32.3)Table 1: Performance of Time Tagger(English)5 Multilingual TaggingThe development of a tagging program for otherlanguages closely parallels the process forEnglish and reuses some of the code.
Eachlanguage has its own set of lexical trigger wordsthat signal a temporal expression.
Many ofthese, e.g.
day, week, etc., are simplytranslations of English words.Often, there will be some additionaltriggers with no corresponding word in English.For example, some languages contain a singlelexical item that would translate in English as?the day after tomorrow?.
For each language,the triggers and lexical markers must beidentified.As in the case of English, the SCmodule for a new language handles the case ofabsolute expressions, with the DP module3 The evaluated version of the system does not adjust theReference Time for subsequent sentences.handling the relative ones.
It appears that inmost languages, in the absence of other context,relative expressions with an implied referencetime are relative to the present.
Thus, tools builtfor one language that compute offsets from abase reference time will carry over to otherlanguages.As an example, we will briefly describethe changes that were needed to develop aSpanish module, given our English one.
Most ofthe work involved pairing the Spanish surfaceforms with the already existing computations,e.g.
we already computed ?yesterday?
asmeaning ?one day back from the referencepoint?.
This had to be attached to the newsurface form ?ayer?.
Because not all computersgenerate the required character encodings, weallowed expressions both with and withoutdiacritical marks, e.g., ma?ana and manana.Besides the surface forms, there are afew differences in conventions that had to beaccounted for.
Times are mostly stated using a24-hour clock.
Dates are usually written in theEuropean form day/month/year rather than theUS-English convention of month/day/year.A difficulty arises because of the use ofmultiple calendric systems.
While the Gregoriancalendar is widely used for business across theworld, holidays and other social events are oftenrepresented in terms of other calendars.
Forexample, the month of Ramadan is a regularlyrecurring event in the Islamic calendar, butshifts around in the Gregorian4.Here are some examples of tagging ofparallel text from Spanish and English with acommon representation.<TIMEX2 VAL="2001-04-01">hoy</TIMEX2><TIMEX2 VAL="2001-04-01">today</TIMEX2><TIMEX2 VAL="1999-03-13">el trece demarzo de 1999</TIMEX2><TIMEX2 VAL="1999-03-13">the thirteenth ofMarch, 1999</TIMEX2>4 Our annotation guidelines state that a holiday name ismarkable but should receive a value only when that valuecan be inferred from the context of the text, rather thanfrom cultural and world knowledge.<TIMEX2 VAL="2001-W12">la semanapasada</TIMEX2><TIMEX2 VAL="2001-W12">lastweek</TIMEX2>6 Related WorkOur scheme differs from the recent scheme of(Setzer and Gaizauskas 2000) in terms of our in-depth focus on representations for the values ofspecific classes of time expressions, and in theapplication of our scheme to a variety ofdifferent genres, including print news, broadcastnews, and meeting scheduling dialogs.
Othershave used temporal annotation schemes for themuch more constrained domain of meetingscheduling, e.g., (Wiebe et al 1998),(Alexandersson et al 1997), (Busemann et al1997).
Our scheme has been applied to suchdomains as well, our annotation of theEnthusiast corpus being an example.7 ConclusionIn the future, we hope to extend our Englishannotation guidelines into a set of multilingualannotation guidelines, which would includelanguage-specific supplements specifyingexamples, tokenization rules, and rules fordetermining tag extents.
To supportdevelopment of such guidelines, we expect todevelop large keyword-in-context concordances,and would like to use the time-tagger system asa tool in that effort.
Our approach would be (1)to run the tagger over the desired text corpora;(2) to run the concordance creation utility overthe annotated version of the same corpora, usingnot only TIMEX2 tags but also lexical triggerwords as input criteria; and (3) to partition theoutput of the creation utility into entries that aretagged as temporal expressions and entries thatare not so tagged.
We can then review theuntagged entries to discover classes of cases thatare not yet covered by the tagger (and hence,possibly not yet covered by the guidelines), andwe can review the tagged entries to discover anyspuriously tagged cases that may correspond toguidelines that need to be tightened up.We also expect to create and distributemultilingual corpora annotated according tothese guidelines.
Initial feedback from machinetranslation system grammar writers (Levin2000) indicates that the guidelines were found tobe useful in extending an existing interlingua formachine translation.
For the existing Englishannotations, we are currently carrying out inter-annotator agreement studies of the work of the 6annotators.ReferencesJ.
Alexandersson, N. Reithinger, and E. Maier.Insights into the Dialogue Processing ofVERBMOBIL.
Proceedings of the FifthConference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing, 1997, 33-40.S.
Busemann, T. Declerck, A. K. Diagne, L. Dini, J.Klein, and S. Schmeier.
Natural LanguageDialogue Service for Appointment SchedulingAgents.
Proceedings of the Fifth Conference onApplied Natural Language Processing, 1997, 25-32.L.
Ferro, I. Mani, B. Sundheim, and G. Wilson.TIDES Temporal Annotation Guidelines.
DraftVersion 1.0.
MITRE Technical Report MTR00W0000094, October 2000.L.
Hirschman, F. Reeder, J. Burger, and K. Miller,Name Translation as a Machine TranslationEvaluation Task.
Proceedings of LREC?2000.ISO-8601 ftp://ftp.qsl.net/pub/g1smd/8601v03.pdf1997.L.
Levin.
Personal Communication.I.
Mani and G. Wilson.
Robust Temporal Processingof News, Proceedings of the ACL'2000Conference, 3-6 October 2000, Hong Kong.MUC-7.
Proceedings of the Seventh MessageUnderstanding Conference, DARPA.
1998.http://www.itl.nist.gov/iad/894.02/related_projects/muc/A.
Setzer and R. Gaizauskas.
Annotating Events andTemporal Information in Newswire Texts.Proceedings of the Second InternationalConference On Language Resources AndEvaluation (LREC-2000), Athens, Greece, 31May- 2 June 2000.TDT2http://morph.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/LDC99T37.html 1999J.
M. Wiebe, T. P. O?Hara, T. Ohrstrom-Sandgren,and K. J. McKeever.
An Empirical Approach toTemporal Reference Resolution.
Journal ofArtificial Intelligence Research, 9, 1998, pp.
247-293.Appendix 1: AnnotatedCorpus: Enthusiast DialogExample (one utterance)Transcript of Spanish source:EL LUNES DIECISIETE IMAGINO QUEQUIERE DECIR EL DIECISIETE TENGO UNSEMINARIO DESDE LAS DIEZ HASTA LASCINCOAnnotated English translation:<TIMEX2 VAL=?2000-05-17?>MONDAYTHE SEVENTEENTH</TIMEX2> I IMAGINEYOU MEAN <TIMEX2 VAL=?2000-05-17?>THE SEVENTEENTH</TIMEX2> IHAVE A SEMINAR FROM <TIMEX2VAL=?2000-05-17T10?>TEN </TIMEX2>UNTIL <TIMEX2 VAL=?2000-05-17T17?>FIVE</TIMEX2>Note:  Elements of range expressions are taggedseparately.
The VAL includes date as well astime because of the larger context.
Theannotator has confidently inferred that theseminar is during the daytime, and has coded thetime portion of the VAL accordingly.Appendix 2: AnnotatedCorpus: New York TimesArticle (excerpt)Dominique Strauss-Kahn, France's financeminister, said: "<TIMEX2 VAL=?1999-01-01?>Today</TIMEX2> is clearly <TIMEX2NON_SPECIFIC=?YES?>a historic day for theEuropean enterprise</TIMEX2>.
Europe will bestrong, stronger than in <TIMEX2VAL=?PAST_REF?>the past</TIMEX2>,because it will speak with a single monetaryvoice.
"But even on <TIMEX2 VAL=?1998-12-31?>Thursday </TIMEX2>, there were signs ofpotential battles ahead.One hint came from Duisenberg, a formerDutch central banker who was named presidentof the European Central Bank only after a bitterpolitical fight <TIMEX2 VAL=?1998-05?>lastMay</TIMEX2> between France and Germany.Duisenberg, a conservative on monetary policy,was favored by Helmut Kohl, who was<TIMEX2 VAL=?1998-05?>then</TIMEX2>chancellor of Germany.
But President JacquesChirac of France insisted on the head of theBank of France, Jean-Claude Trichet.Germany and France eventually cut a dealunder which Duisenberg would becomepresident of the new European bank, but"voluntarily" agree to step down well ahead of<TIMEX2 VAL=?P8Y?
MOD=?END?>the endof his eight-year term</TIMEX2>.
