Visualizing Spoken Discourse:Prosodic Form and Discourse Functions of InterruptionsLi-chiung YangAbstractIn this paper we show that interruptions areimportant elements in the interactive characterof discourse and in the resolution of issues ofcognitive uncertainty and planning.
Byrepresenting discourse graphically, we alsoshow that interruptions are part of the local andglobal coherence that is brought about throughthe systematic phrase-to-phrase prosodicpatterns of discourse.
The specific pitch heightof the interruption varies with the expression ofemotion, signals of attention-getting, and signalsof competitiveness.
These prosodic forms arepotentially usable in spoken dialogue systems toprovide intelligent responding systems that areresponsive to human motivations in dialogues.1 Introduction: Interruptions and DialogueOne characteristic of human conversation is thatit?s highly interactive, spontaneous and mutualinformation building, and the demands of theongoing mutual negotiation process often causeimbalances in informational adequacy anddesired topic direction.
Interruptions play a keyrole in signaling and resolving these imbalancesand in bringing about a mutually satisfactoryaccommodation of the interests and knowledgestates of participants.Because interruptions act to mediate thecontent and redirection of a conversationalexchange, and are informationally packed withrespect to these communicative pivot points, it isimportant to understand how interruptions areused in human communication, and determinewhich elements of interruptions can beaccommodated in building a more flexible, moreefficient spoken dialogue system.1 Research Goals and ProceduresIn this study, our goal is to look at thedistribution of interruptive occurrences innatural speech, and investigate their respectivefunctions and characteristics.
Several questionsthat we address are the following: What are thedifferent types of interruptions present indialogues, and to what extent are prosodic-acoustic features significant in distinguishingbetween these different types of interruptions?What are some of the underlying factors thatcause interruptions to occur, and how can suchinformation on the prosodic features be utilizedin spoken language systems in detectinginterruptions and in constructing appropriateresponse strategies in human-computerinteractions?Our data for this research consists of fifteendialogue segments extracted from a corpus of 2hours of spontaneous conversation.
The speechdata were digitized and annotated for discourserelations, topic structure, interruptions, andspeaker turns.
The acoustic measurements of f0,amplitude and duration were correlated with thespecific characteristics of the interruptions in thedata.
In this paper we concentrate mostly onpitch, but make reference to amplitude andduration where appropriate.In our analysis we take a multi-level approach.In order to capture the different domains atwhich prosodic patterns are manifested, weanalyzed the data at the within-phrase as well asthe inter-phrase level.
An additional level of ouranalysis focuses on how discourse evolves overextended stretches of conversation.
As a way ofrepresenting the prosodic structures in spokendialogue, we plotted the highest pitch points of600 continuous utterances, about 20 minutesconversation, for each speaker and color-codedthe interruptions by speaker and type.
ThisCREST, Japan Science and Technology & Information Sciences Division, ATRSeika-cho Soraku-gun, Kyoto, Japan 619-0288yang@isd.atr.co.jptechnique allows us to visualize and trackimportant discourse events and points of interesteasily, and allows us to form more appropriategeneralizations accordingly.2 Prosodic Characteristics of Interruptions2.1 Types of InterruptionsWhat constitutes an interruption?
Interruptionscan be seen as situations in which one personintends to continue speaking, but is forced by theother person to stop speaking, at leasttemporarily, or the continuity or regularity ofthat person's speech is disrupted.
This canhappen when the interruption causes the mainspeaker to become hesitant in speech, even whilecontinuing on the intended path or when thespeaker continues speaking, but the interruptioncauses the speaker's topic direction to bemodified.
Interruptions, therefore, can be seen asconsisting of three essential ingredients:intention of the main speaker to continue,entrance of the other person into theconversation, and disruption or stopping of themain speaker, at least temporarily.In general, interruptions can be of two types:competitive vs. cooperative.
Competitiveinterruptions occur when one speaker attempts totake the floor by making his or her own remarksa higher priority over the main speaker's speechwhen the main speaker intends to continue.
Thiscompetitiveness can be on two different levels.Speakers can compete for speech space and theycan also compete for topic or idea.
In either ofthese competitive cases, interruption acts to takethe attention away from the main speaker, atleast temporarily, and focus it on the interrupter'sspeech.Cooperative interruptions occur when onespeaker wants to support or reinforce the mainspeaker's point without disrupting the mainspeaker's continuation.
These types of supportiveremarks are often in the form of shortcommentaries or clarifying questions.
Suchclarifying questions often support the continuingflow of the main speaker by keeping bothspeakers in synchrony on the topic development.Both types of interruptions may or may notinvolve overlapping speech, since overlappingspeech is not necessarily an indication thatspeakers are in conflict over which speaker hasthe right to the floor at that moment.
Forexample, in conversation, speaker's feedbackutterances or back channel signals such umhumor yeah often overlap with the main speaker'sspeech, but they are not interruptions as they donot interrupt the main speaker's flow.
In fact,they often contribute to the smooth flow of themain topic because of their supportive nature.Conversely, competitive interruptions can happeneven when there is no overt overlapping inspeakers' speech.
This can occur when onespeaker is not completely finished and intends togo on, but is at the end of an episode or a possibleturn completion point.
The other speaker may notbe aware of the main speaker's plan, and maythink the current speaker is completely finished,so starts to take the floor and creates anunintentional interruption, i.e.
mistiming.Therefore, it is the degree of disruption to theintended continuation of the main speaker whichis the critical element, and the degree ofcompetitiveness or cooperation is determined bythe actions and intentions of both speakers.2.2 Competitive InterruptionsAnalysis of our discourse corpus shows thatcompetitive interruptions are typically high inpitch and amplitude.
In spontaneous discourse,speakers often compete to gain control anddominance in the conversation.
In competitivesituations participants need a strong immediatesignal to attract the attention away from theongoing speech.
In general, the more audible thesignal is, the more forceful and effective it willbe in overcoming the current focus andsuccessfully taking the floor.
Prosodically, thiscompetitiveness and need for a strong signal areiconically reflected in the vocal cues of highpitch and high amplitude.Competitive interruptions are often closely tiedto topic development and reflect relevance,urgency, degree of importance, and interest in thecurrent topic.
In conversation, speakers often feelthe need to express something which isemotionally significant to them.
Speakers oftenencounter moments of uncertainty and have anurgent demand for information and immediateattention at a critical moment.
This urgency andimmediacy are a key characteristic ofinterruptions and are directly related to therelevance of the current topic.
Speakers often grabthe opportunity while the current topic is hot toclarify something, add a pertinent fact, or expressFigure 1: A competitive interruption of Speaker Afor demanding new information at phrase unit 14.Circles mark Speaker A?s utterances whereasfilled dots mark Speaker B?s utterances.an immediate opinion.
Often the high pitch andloud amplitude in competitive interruptions arecaused by the emotions motivating thesesituations.2.1.1 Demand for new information orclarificationThe first example illustrates a typical case ofcompetitive interruptions: (interruptions areindicated by an arrow in the transcript)(1)13 A: So this one's better thenB: Umhum14 It's better than the regular ones.?
A: | What brand is this?15 B: This one?s -it's called - Marantz16 A: Oh.B: Marantz.Umhum.17 A: Five hundred?.B: Close to five hundred.In this example the interrupter (A) comes inwhen the main speaker is at a slight pause in themiddle of a response and at a low pitch level.The interrupter interrupts with a direct question`What brand is this?'
at U14 (utterance 14) usinghigh pitch, loud amplitude and at a fast speed(see Figure 1).
These prosodic features are directresults of the immediacy and urgency of theinterrupter's demand for additional informationfor her interest.Figure 2: A case of an interruption of Speaker Bat phrase unit 151 expressing an important pointat a critical moment.2.2.2 Expressing Strong Opinions(2)149 A: It's just - hmmm150 It's just to say that the one who speaks151 it's just that you - you - (pause)?
B: But you have to speak slowly, right?152 It has to be very clear.A: Be | cause every -153 A: Right.154 Because everyone's pronunciation isdifferentB: Umhum RightCompetitive interruptions within an ongoingtopic also occur when a speaker wishes toexpress a strong opinion or disagreement.
In thebeginning section of this fragment shown inexample 2, the main speaker (speaker A) istalking and speaker B mainly provides feedback.Speaker B's interruption at U151 occurs at apoint where the main speaker is hesitant andpausing.
Anticipating the main speaker's point,speaker B takes this opportunity to express herstrong opinion on that point, and the forcefulnessof her disagreement is reflected in the highamplitude and high pitch of the interruption.Comparing with the peak points for theutterances in this section (see Figure 2), we canclearly see that this interruption has a suddenpitch jump to 360Hz, and is an abrupt isolatedpoint by comparison to the rest of the pitchpoints in this area, about 50Hz higher than theother points in this region.
Note that the intentionof the interrupter here is not to take the floor forthe long term, but to make an important point atFigure 3: A very high-pitched interruption ofSpeaker B at U296 to shift topic.a critical moment, and this intention is indicatedby the brevity of her remark and her supportivefeedback thereafter.2.2.3 Shifting TopicThe critical moment urgency of manyinterruptions is shown in the above example.Interruptions often occur in the normal give-and-take of conversation as participants negotiatetheir own interests in the conversations.Therefore one key motivation for competitiveinterruptions is to change topic direction.
Thiscan happen when one speaker has a topic ofgreater interest, wants to avoid a topic, or wantsto return to an old topic.
Such interruptions oftenoccur in the form of questions, as questionsobviously are a natural way to attract attention,to demand information, and to direct or guide aspeaker's speech and the direction of discourse.
(3)287 A: Then it?s just - it's just teamwork288 it's not justB: | Right Umhum289 A: just they are doing the work290 B: Umhum umhum umhum291 A: They are also doing teamwork.B: Umhum292 A: Some people are responsible for thelinguistic analysis,B: Umhum293 A: some people are responsible for thesoftware design.B: Umhum umhum umhum.Figure 4: Pitch track of U296 with precedingand following utterances.294 A: It's just - it's just teamwork.B: Umhum295 A: It also needs to be done like this,B: UmhumA: in order to do a good job.296 ?
B: | Then then then the conference atCentral Research Institute, was thatgood?A: Cen - tral - Re - search - Insti - tute -B: Umhum297 A: Be cause that -?
B: | Do you remember?
M.In example 3, the main speaker (Speaker A) isfinishing up her topic, and her intention toconclude can be inferred by her repetition of thephrase `It's just - it's just teamwork.'
in U294 totie the topic back to her beginning statement atU287.
Her pitch level is getting low here.Anticipating Speaker A's completion, Speaker Bcomes in to shift the topic back to a previoustopic.
Her pitch level for this utterance (U296) isvery high at 420Hz as seen in Figure 3 andFigure 4, in fact, it is one of the highest pointsfor this speaker in the discourse.
We can see thatthere is a dramatic and abrupt rise in pitch level.This is clearly indicated by the sharp increase ofapproximately 190Hz from Speaker B's previousutterance at 230Hz.
Her amplitude is also loudand forceful.
This interruption is followed byanother lower-pitched and soft promptinginterruptive question `Do you remember?'
toreinforce the intended turn in topic direction.2.2.4 Degree of Topic RelatednessFigure 5: A high-pitched competitive interrup-tion of Speaker B at U376 to shift to a relatedtopic.
(4)371 A: Later that Computational LinguisticsConferenceB: Umhum372 A: that one's pretty good, too373 that one's also pretty good.B: Umhum374 A: That one's just -Oh, it's just the emphasis is more oncomputational linguistics,B: Umhum375 A: It's just the scope was narrower.376 ?
B: | Does that have anythingto do with what you are working on?A: Ah...partially.The pitch height of an interruption is closelyrelated to the abruptness of topic shift and theintensity of expression.
By contrast, for a laterinterruption in example 4 at U376, speaker B'spitch level is high at about 380Hz (Figure 5), butis about 40Hz lower than the interruption to shiftthe topic in the previous example of U296.
Thereason for the higher pitch level of the previousinterruption may be explained on two grounds.One is that the interest level involved, i.e.
theintensity of the emotion of the speaker, isdifferent.
In the previous interruption, thespeaker is bringing in a topic in which she hasgreat interest, whereas in the current case, theinterruption is just a leading question to providean opportunity for a further topic.
The secondreason concerns the degree of relatedness oftopics.
A greater cognitive effort is involved hasnot been present or active for some time, when ashift is made to return to a topic which thereforerequiring a stronger prosodic signal to flip backto the previous topic world, and to bring it backinto the current memory of participants.
In theexample here, the topic shift is just one stepaway from the current topic which is in theparticipants' active memory, and thus thisrequires less cognitive effort, hence a less strongintonational signal.2.2.5 Resistance to Topic ShiftInterruptions are an important element in theinteractive character of discourse.
Thisinteraction comes about because of the mutualnegotiating to satisfy each participant's needs inthe conversation.
In the above examples, topicshifts were viewed from the perspective of theinterrupter, but the perspective of the mainspeaker also needs to be considered.
Whenencountering interruption, a speaker mayrespond by yielding, by ignoring the interruption,or by continuing through forceful prosodiccounter-measures.
The particular response usedis determined to a large degree by the existingbalance of floor rights at that point in theconversation.Whether a main speaker yields or not is decidedby the degree of competitiveness and urgency ofthe interrupter, and how related the interruptionis to the ongoing topic.
In resisting interruptions,the main speaker often reacts by using both loudamplitude and a high pitch level, the principlebeing to first grab back the floor, then proceedwith content.
The prosodic give-and-take ofinterruptions really expresses the interactivelyestablished understanding of current floor rightsand participants?
intensity.
(5)75 B: Then then at the next step76 it's already digitized,A: Umhum77 B: It's already stored on the computer.A: Umhum78 ?
A: This time when I went back ---B: | Thenthen you just -79 A: m mB: you can just do ---80 you just have your own file, huh,81 A: UmhumB: then at that point you can just look at-Figure 6: A case of a competitive interruption ofSpeaker A and Speaker B?s resistance response.82 all of the words from beginning toendA: UmhumIn this example, as the main speaker (speakerB) is coming down to the end of a subsection assignalled by the descending pitch level to a lowpitch level at U77, speaker A comes in to initiatea topic of her own with a high pitch level of310Hz.
Speaker B immediately counters thisinterruption with a high pitch and loud amplitude.Once the threat to the floor rights is overhowever, speaker B immediately returns to amore normal pitch and amplitude level to resumeher topic, as we can see by the dropoff in pitchand amp here.
The raised pitch and differential inpitch level may be in proportion to the degree ofcompetitiveness involved.2.3 Cooperative InterruptionsThe examples presented so far have mostlyillustrated the discourse reasoning and theprosodic characteristics of competitiveinterruptions.
In general, competitiveinterruptions are marked by a high pitch level,and a loud amplitude, expressing theparticipants' competition for the focus ofattention.
By contrast, cooperative interruptionsare more supportive of the main speaker's floorrights, and the intention is to keep the attentionon the main speaker's point.
This difference incooperativeness has a corresponding influenceon the prosodic patterns of such supportiveinterruptions.
Because of their non-disruptivenature, they often occur at low or medium pitchlevels, and even when they are high foremotional reasons, they are generally lower inpitch than competitive interruptions.
Theamplitude of cooperative interruptions can vary.In our data, the amplitude is generally low incases of acknowledging and prompting, but oftenhigh when an interruption is used to expressstrong opinion or emphasis.
These characteristicscan be seen in the following examples:2.3.1 Expressing Supportive Agreement(6)398 A: Then there are some Taiwanese399 graduate studentsB: Uhhuh399 A: they also had -400 Some of them also presented theirpapers, right?401 They also went up there on the stageto presentB: Umhum402 A: They also presented in English.B: Umhum umhum umhum403 A: I really think that they did a great job.B: Umhum umhum404 A: They did really well.B: Umm405 A: So I looked at them and say ....(laugh)406 these Taiwanese graduate students407 they are really goodat this International Conference they408 ?
B: | Theydid really well409 A: Emm B: Umhum410 A: They did really well.
(laugh)The non-disruptive nature of cooperativeinterruption can be seen in this example.
Fromthe pitch plot (Figure 7) we can see that speakerA is very excited in this segment, and isspeaking at a very high pitch in her range.
Thevery excited and involved state of speaker A isclearly evidenced in the fact that her pitch levelis the highest point in the entire conversation,among all her utterances.
This excited state isalso indicated by the abrupt 105Hz pitchelevation from her previous utterance in U406 at325Hz.
By contrast, speaker B's supportive andagreeing interruption comment at U408 is said ata relatively low pitch level of about 260Hz andat a moderately low amplitude, in agreementwith the implicit goal of avoiding disruption tothe main speaker?s progress.Figure 7: Three cases of low-pitched supportiveinterruptions at U408, U417, and U420.2.3.2 Completing An Anticipated PointCooperative interruptions frequently occur whenthe main speaker is in the middle of completing apoint and the other speaker already anticipatesthat point and is in agreement with the mainspeaker.
In such cases, the other speaker oftencomes in to finish that point for the main speaker,presenting the interruption as a prompt.
In ourdata, these instances typically occur at relativelylow pitch levels, because of the certainty andconfidence of the interrupter, and at a relativelyhigh amplitude, reflecting increased emphasis.
(7)413 A: Take a look at what other people aredoing, right?414 umB: Right right right right.
Umhum414 B: Now at this stage it becomes veryimportant, I feelA: That's right.416 B: Because the things we learn at school417 I mean when you get to a certain level?
A: | There's a limit418 B: Right.A: Mm.419 B: It's just that you need to know moreabout the outside world.A: Right.420 B: At the same time, it's also --- (pause)?
A: | different,421 differ - ent -422 at different places, huh, B: Umhum423 A: what types of things they?re workingonB: Umhum umhum umhum umhumFigure 8: A high-pitched cooperativeinterruption  at U270 for expressing strongagreement.In this example, speaker A interrupts at U417 tofinish for speaker B, expressing the point in anemphatic way: `There's a limit'.
Speaker A's pitchis at a relatively low level of 220Hz, and thatreinforces the expression of unanimity oragreement with the main speaker.
The loudamplitude on this phrase signals the strongopinion and emphasis that speaker A is expressing(Figure 7).
At U420, speaker A again anticipatesspeaker B and comes in to cooperatively developB's point at a moderate pitch level of 270Hz and aloud amplitude, signaling the joint cooperativenature of these interruptions.2.3.3 Variations in IntensityOne complication is that cooperativeinterruptions are also affected by the intensity ofthe accompanying emotion, and therefore mayalso occur at high pitch levels, as seen in thefollowing two examples:(8)268 A: If both sides can cooperateB: Umhum right269 A: that will be really good.270 ?
B: | That's exactly right!
You justhave to cooperate.
Right!A: Mm.
(9)298 A: That one?s an int?l conference,B: Uhhuh299 A: The conference location was at theCentral Research Institute,300 but | the people who came to presentB: (pause)| UhhuhFigure 9: A supportive high-pitched interruptionwith salient new information at U302.301 A: these speakers were from all over theworld.302 ?
B: Uhhuh uhhuh | Lots of famouspeople.303 A: Right.
Lots - lots of famous people.B: Right umhum umhum305 A: Lots of famous people.B: UmhumIn the first example, example (8), the interrupteris giving a strong expression of support andenthusiastic agreement, and this is evident in thesemantic content `That's exactly right.
You justhave to cooperate.
Right'.
Because of the strongemotion involved, speaker B's pitch level here isvery high at 385Hz, as seen in Figure 8, and theamplitude is also loud.
The interruption inexample (9) is also a strong interruption tosupport the main speaker, but adds new salientinformation to the ongoing topic by explicitlybringing up a notable fact 'lots of famous people'.The pitch level of this phrase (Figure 9) is high atabout 380Hz and the amplitude is also great.
Thesupportive intention of this cooperativeinterruption is further indicated by the continuingfeedback speaker B provides, and this intention isrecognized and appreciated greatly by the mainspeaker, as shown by her repeated echoing ofspeaker B's remark in U303 and U305.2.4 Interruptions & the Resolution of Uncertainty2.4.1 The Integration of Discourse Elementsand the Variations of Pitch HeightOur data show that the complexity ofinterruptions increases with the complexity ofthe discourse relationships.
Interruptions arecomplex discourse phenomena.
They areinformationally packed, as they mediate thediffering interests and knowledge states ofparticipants in a conversation.
The specificnature of each interruption is a reflection of theunderlying motivation of the interrupter.
Thecontent and timing of interruptions are directlylinked to the interrupter's urgent and intenseemotional need for an immediate resolution.That is, it is the urgency of the emotion that iscausing the interrupter to express the need toaddress a particular salient topic immediately atthis particular time.Another factor that contributes to thiscomplexity is that competitiveness andcooperativeness are not polar oppositecharacteristics of interruptions, but occur as agradient process.
The degree of competitivenessarises from the intensity of the emotionsunderlying the interruption.
Speaker intensity isalso closely linked to the degree of certainty anduncertainty inherent in the ongoing topicprogression.
The forcefulness of the expressionalso affects how the main speaker responds.
Anintense expression often creates a critical needfor an immediate response, and speakers aremore prone to stop and address the issue raisedby the interrupter, hence such interruptions aremore competitive.The degree of competitiveness orcooperativeness is also influenced by howrelated the interruption is to the ongoing topic,i.e.
the degree of relatedness of topic, and theknowledge states of the participants, and by howlong the interrupter intends to take the floor for.A short interruption for a clarification on thecurrent topic is more cooperative than aninterruption to change both the topic and thefloor.
The specific strength of signal needed toadequately overcome the ongoing topic mayvary by the changing interruptability orresistance level of the topic.
Because of theintentions of participants, in spontaneousdiscourse interruptions occur to varying degreesof intensity and varying degrees ofcompetitiveness and cooperativeness.Interruptions thus are a complex combination ofexpressions of emotion, signals of attention-getting, and signals of competitiveness, and theirprosodic manifestations are directly linked tothese motivations.
Our data show that the pitchlevel of interruptions can occur at varying heights;Figure 10: Gradual resolution of uncertainty of speaker Bexpressed in descending increments of pitch heights.Figure 11: Interruptions in context of matching rise-fallphrase patterns of both speakers over a 100-phrase dialoguesection.the higher the intensity, the higher the pitch level.The specific pitch height of the interruption isdetermined jointly by the need to attract attention,the intensity of the emotion present, and thestrength of signal needed to overcome theattention and focus on the current topic.2.4.2 Extended EpisodesExample 1The prosodic patterns for this segment of 100utterances (see Figure 10) are very revealing ofthe complex emotional and discourse forces atwork, and also illustrate the point that intensityand degree of uncertainty and certainty aresignificant determinants of topic direction andprosodic structure.
In this part of theconversation, speaker A is talking about aconference she attended previously and SpeakerFigure 12: Speaker involvement patterns withintensification and resolution in a topic over an extendedepisode.B mistook it to be the conference that she wasinterested in, so she initiates a series of shortquestions (in the form of interruptions) toconfirm and clarify the information.
The generalcognitive pattern seen here is that the interrupterencounters an initial high unsettled state ofuncertainty and gradually progresses to a moresettled and certain state.
This is clearly expressedin the overall downward trend in the pitch levelfor these utterances in the peak pitch chart.
Thepattern of alternating doubt and certainty is veryrevealing itself.
At each interruption thatexpresses doubt and a need for clarification, thereis a local rise in pitch.
Those interruptions whichexpress acknowledgement and certainty arelocally lower in pitch.
The specific strength ofsignal needed varies systematically with theresolution of the differing interests andknowledge states of participants.The overall prosodic structure of this examplealso provides a vivid illustration of theimportance of the process of intensification andnormalization in discourse.
The very high pitchat U93 reflects the abrupt climax of emotionalintensity and uncertainty, and as this emotionaluncertainty is expressed and cognitively resolvedthrough the sequence of interruptions,normalization in the intensity of the cognitivestate and the pitch level is then achieved.Example 2Taking a more extended view of our data showsthat pitch movements of interruptions also varyaccording to overall patterns of topicdevelopment and intensity of speakerinvolvement.
Analysis of the discourse textshows that the rise-fall arc seen in Figure 11 alsocoincides with the development of a majorsubtopic that both speakers actively contribute to.This involvement is signaled by the large amountof dots at varying heights of both speakers.
Bothspeakers' involvement reaches a peak ofexcitement roughly at the U320-U330 section,and then gradually descends as speaker A givesmore specific details in concluding the topic.
Asshown, the pitch levels of the interruptions ofboth speakers also converge and follow the samerise-fall pattern as interest in the topic increasesand then is resolved.
This supports the view thatinterruptions are a part of an overall systematicprosodic structure that integrates topicprogression and speaker involvement through aprocess of climax and resolution.Example 3What is happening in the conversation in Figure12 is that one speaker (speaker B) begins todevelop a topic that she is interested in but thathad not been successfully communicated, andthe interest level and the speaker?s involvementare intensified as she attempts to overcome themismatch as indicated by many very abrupt highpitched interruption points, whereas speaker A?spitch movements are expressed in more uniformoverall descending pattern.
The descending partof the curve also coincides with the resolution ofan issue that speaker B had been very uncertainabout throughout that section of dialogue.
Thisreinforces our conclusion that at each level ofanalysis, prosody links speaker interaction, topicprogression and expression of cognitive state.4 Implications for Dialogue SystemsHow can we use the above information to helpbuild an intelligent spoken dialogue system?
Wecan focus on 2 related aspects: Detection andResponse.
For example, a high pitch andamplitude would be detected as a competitiveinterruption of higher urgency and indicate apossible mismatch of the current state with theuser?s desired state.
The system would respondby searching the possible topic space, adding thelexical-semantic content of the interruption toprior information to aid in the search.Ongoing monitoring of the prosody can alsoprovide important information on the directionthe dialogue is taking.
For example, if userresponses or interruptions follow an increasingpitch pattern, then the system can interpret thisas increasing uncertainty, and modify the topicsearch direction.
Conversely, decreasing pitchpattern can indicate that the user?s certainty andprogress toward a desired goal are increasing ina satisfactory way.As spoken dialogue systems become morereceptive to natural human speech, thedisfluencies and prosody of human speech canprovide critical information to guide progressalong interactively developed system paths,mirroring aspects of human-humanconversational speech.
Further work on adaptingprosody detection to dialogue systems provides afoundation for systems which are trulyinteractive, taking advantage of active inputs bythe user, adapting to the knowledge base of users,and providing clarifications according to searchstrategies that account for information presentedin more natural ways, and ultimately makingsystems more intelligent by adapting to humanmotivation.ConclusionIn this paper we have shown that interruptionsare important elements in the interactivecharacter of discourse and in the resolution ofissues of cognitive uncertainty and planning.
Wehave also shown that interruptions are part of thelocal and global coherence that is brought aboutthrough the systematic phrase-to-phrase prosodicpatterns of discourse, and are an importantcomponent for speech understanding andintelligent dialogue systems.ReferencesPeter Heeman and James Allen (1999) SpeechRepairs, Intonational Phrases, Discourse Markers:Modeling Speaker?s Utterances in SpokenDialogue.
Computational Linguistics, Vol.
25-4.Barbara Grosz and Candace Sidner (1986) Attention,Intentions, and the Structure of Discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12(3):175-204.Marilyn Walker and John D. Moore (1997) EmpiricalStudies in Discourse.
Computational Linguistics,23(1):1-12.Li-chiung Yang (1995) Intonational Structures ofMandarin Discourse.
Ph.D. dissertation,Georgetown University.
