On the Means for Clarication in DialogueMatthew Purver and Jonathan GinzburgDepartment of Computer ScienceKing's College LondonStrand, London WC2R 2LS, UKfmatthew.purver, jonathan.ginzburgg@kcl.ac.ukPatrick HealeyDepartment of Computer ScienceQueen Mary, University of LondonMile End Road, London E1 4NS, UKph@dcs.qmw.ac.ukAbstractThe ability to request claricationof utterances is a vital part of thecommunicative process.
In this pa-per we discuss the range of possi-ble forms for clarication requests,together with the range of read-ings they can convey.
We presentthe results of corpus analysis whichshow a correlation between certainforms and possible readings, to-gether with some indication of maxi-mum likely distance between requestand the utterance being claried.We then explain the implications ofthese results for a possible HPSGanalysis of clarication requests andfor an ongoing implementation ofa clarication-capable dialogue sys-tem.11 IntroductionClarication requests (CRs) are common inhuman conversation.
They can take variousforms and can be intended by the speakermaking the request (the CR initiator) to re-quest various types of clarication informa-tion (i.e.
they can have various readings),but have in common the fact that they arein a sense meta-dialogue acts { they concernthe content or form of a previous utterancethat has failed to be fully comprehended bythe initiator.1This research is funded by grant numberGR/R04942/01 from the Engineering and PhysicalResearch Council of the United Kingdom.It is not usual for computer dialogue sys-tems do be able to process CRs produced bythe user.
One can see how important thismight be in a negotiative dialogue by consid-ering the following imagined exchange, whichgives some possible alternative responses to aCR initiated by the caller:(1)System: Would you like to travel viaParis or Amsterdam?Caller: Paris?System: (a) Yes, Paris.
(b) Paris, France.
(c) Paris is the quickestroute, although Amster-dam is the cheapest.
(d) OK.
Your ticket viaParis will be posted to you.Goodbye.Any of responses (a){(c), which correctlyinterpret the caller's move as a CR, might beregarded as useful to the caller: response (d),which incorrectly interprets it as an answerto the system's question, would not be ac-ceptable under any circumstances.
Which of(a){(c) is preferred will depend on the readingintended.
As a rst step towards a full theoryof CR interpretation, we therefore believe itis important to have information about whichreadings are available via which forms.Previous studies have examined some indi-vidual CR forms and given possible analysesfor these forms.
In this paper we describe anattempt to exhaustively categorise CR formsand readings based on corpus work, and dis-cuss the implications of our results for furtheranalysis.The analyses so far proposed require all in-formation from a previous utterance to be re-tained in memory (not only propositional con-tent but syntax and phonology).
The reten-tion of such a large amount of information in-denitely poses obvious problems for any im-plementation with nite resources, and seemsat odds with some results from work in psy-cholinguistics: studies such as (Sachs, 1967;van Dijk and Kintsch, 1983) have argued thatsurface information such as syntax is retainedonly in the short term (see (Fletcher, 1994)for an overview).
Our corpus work has there-fore had the additional aim of identicationof the maximum distance between a CR andthe utterance being claried (the source ut-terance).In this section we give a brief overviewof CR forms identied in previous work, to-gether with the analyses proposed and thereadings that these analyses give rise to.
Insections 2 and 3 we list the possible CR formsand readings that we have identied fromcorpus analysis.
In section 4 we describethis analysis and give detailed results, includ-ing a discussion of apparent correlations be-tween certain forms and readings and of max-imum observed CR-source separation (CSS)distance.
Finally, in section 5 we discuss theimplications of our ndings for an intendeddialogue system implementation.1.1 Previous Work(Ginzburg and Sag, 2000) (hereafter G&S)discuss reprise interrogatives, which they fur-ther classify into echo questions (those \re-sulting from mishearing a previous speechact" { see B's question in example (2)) andreference questions (those which \ask for clar-ication of the reference of some element inthe immediately prior utterance" { see exam-ple (3)).
(2)A: Did Jill phone?B: Did Jill phone?
(3)A: Did Jill phone?B: Did who phone?They argue that the content of both read-ings \contains as a constituent the illocu-tionary force of the (previous) utterance" be-ing reprised.
In other words, B's utterancesin the examples above both involve query-ing some feature of A's query.
They mightbe paraphrased \Are you asking whether Jillphoned?"
and \For which person are youasking whether that person phoned?
", respec-tively.They therefore oer a syntactic and seman-tic analysis which covers both readings: thereprise is analysed syntactically as an in-situinterrogative, and semantically as a questionwhich takes as its propositional content theperceived content of the previous utterancebeing claried.
As conversational move type(CMT) is integrated into utterance contentby their HPSG grammar (see (Ginzburg etal., 2001b)) this straightforwardly gives riseto a reading along the lines of \For whichX are you asking/asserting/(etc.)
Y aboutX?".
They give a full derivation for this read-ing based on the kos dialogue context frame-work (Ginzburg, 1996; Bohlin (Ljunglof) etal., 1999).This analysis is then extended to two el-liptical forms: reprise sluices and ellipticalliteral reprises.
Sluices are elliptical wh-constructions (see (Ross, 1969)) { short wh-questions which receive a \sentential" inter-pretation, in this case an interpretation as areprise question, as shown in example (4):(4)A: Did Jill phone?B: Who?
(non-elliptical equivalent:Did who phone?
)Elliptical literal reprises are short polarquestions { bare fragments which receive aninterpretation as a polar reprise question:(5)A: Did Jill phone?B: Jill?
(non-elliptical equivalent:Did Jill phone?
)Resolution of these elliptical forms isachieved by allowing a conversational partici-pant to coerce a clarication question onto thelist of questions under discussion (QUD) inthe current dialogue context.
This allows el-lipsis resolution in the manner of of (Ginzburget al, 2001a) to give essentially the samereading as reprise questions.
(Ginzburg and Cooper, 2001) (hereafterG&C) give more detailed analysis for the barefragment form (therein described as clari-cation ellipsis) and also give a further read-ing for this form.
They call this reading theconstituent reading to distinguish it from theclausal reading described above.
This con-stituent reading involves querying the con-tent of a constituent which the CR initiatorhas been unable to ground in context (see(Traum, 1994; Clark, 1996)), and is along thelines of \What/who/(etc.)
is the reference ofyour utterance X?
".A possible lexical identication reading isalso discussed, but no analysis given.
Theyalso raise the issue of whether these specicreadings really exist or could be subsumedby a single vague reading, but give evidencethat this is not the case: they cite examplesof CR misunderstanding leading to repeatedattempts to elicit the desired claricationalinformation, showing that a specic readingwas intended; they also point out that somereadings involve dierent parallelism condi-tions.
As will be discussed in detail below,the results of the work described here also in-dicate that particular forms may be restrictedto particular sets of specic readings.2 Clarication FormsThe following forms have been identied aspossible means for CRs.
While we cannotclaim that this list is exhaustive, a markupscheme based on these forms has been shownto cover the CRs encountered in a corpus ofdialogue, as detailed in section 4 below.
Inthis section we list the forms identied, andillustrate them with examples.
All exampleshave been taken from the British NationalCorpus (BNC).2.1 Non-Reprise ClaricationsUnsurprisingly, speakers have recourse to anon-reprise2form of clarication.
In this2Note that a non-reprise sentence need not be non-elliptical.form, the nature of the information being re-quested by the CR initiator is spelt out for theaddressee.
Utterances of this type thus oftencontain phrases such as \do you mean.
.
.
",\did you say.
.
.
", as can be seen in exam-ples (6) and (7).
(6)3Cassie: You did get o with him?Catherine: Twice, but it was totallynon-existent kissing soCassie: What do you mean?Catherine: I was sort of falling asleep.
(7)4Leon: Erm, your orgy is a foodorgy.Unknown: What did you say?Leon: Your type of orgy is a foodorgy.2.2 Reprise SentencesSpeakers can form a CR by echoing or repeat-ing5a previous utterance in full, as shown inexample (8).
This form corresponds to G&S'sreprise interrogative.
(8)6Orgady: I spoke to him on Wednes-day, I phoned him.Obina: You phoned him?Orgady: Phoned him.This form appears to be divisible intotwo sub-categories, literal (as in example (8)above) and wh-substituted reprise sentences,as illustrated by example (9).
(9)7Unknown: He's anal retentive, that'swhat it is.Kath: He's what?Unknown: Anal retentive.2.3 Reprise SluicesThis form is an elliptical wh-construction asalready discussed above and described by3BNC le KP4, sentences 521{5244BNC le KPL, sentences 524{5265Repeats need not be verbatim, due to the possi-ble presence of phenomena such as anaphora and VPellipsis, as well as changes in indexicals as shown inexample (8).6BNC le KPW, sentences 463{4657BNC le KPH, sentences 412{414G&S.
(10)8Sarah: Leon, Leon, sorry she'staken.Leon: Who?Sarah: Cath Long, she's spokenfor.There may be a continuum of forms be-tween wh-substituted reprise sentences andreprise sluices.
Consider the following ex-change (11):(11)9Richard: I'm opening my own busi-ness so I need a lot ofmoneyAnon 5: Opening what?This form seems to fall between the full wh-substituted reprise sentence \You're opening(your own) what?"
and the simple reprisesluice \(Your own) what?".
The actual formemployed in this case appears closer to thesluice and was classied as such.102.4 Reprise FragmentsThis elliptical bare fragment form corre-sponds to that described as elliptical literalreprise by G&S and clarication ellipsis byG&C.
(12)11Lara: There's only two people inthe class.Matthew: Two people?Unknown: For cookery, yeah.A similar form was also identied in whichthe bare fragment is preceded by a wh-question word:(13)12Ben: No, ever, everything we sayshe laughs at.Frances: Who Emma?Ben: Oh yeah.8BNC le KPL, sentences 347{3499BNC le KSV, sentences 363{36410While the current exercise has not highlighted itas an issue, we note that a similar continuum might bepresent between literal reprises and reprise fragments.One approach in the face of this indeterminacy mightbe to conate these forms { further analysis of theresults given in this paper may indicate whether thisis desirable.11BNC le KPP, sentences 352{35412BNC le KSW, sentences 698{700As these examples appeared to be inter-changeable with the plain fragment alterna-tive (in example (13), \Emma?
"), they werenot distinguished from fragments in our clas-sication scheme.2.5 GapsThe gap form diers from the reprise formsdescribed above in that it does not involve areprise component corresponding to the com-ponent being claried.
Instead, it consists ofa reprise of (a part of) the utterance imme-diately preceding this component { see exam-ple (14).
(14)13Laura: Can I have some toastplease?Jan: Some?Laura: ToastOur intuition is that this form is intonation-ally distinct from the reprise fragment formthat it might be taken to resemble.
This ap-pears to be backed up by the fact that nomisunderstandings of gap-CRs were discov-ered during our corpus analysis.2.6 Gap FillersThe ller form is used by a speaker to lla gap left by a previous incomplete utter-ance.
Its use therefore appears to be re-stricted to such contexts, either because a pre-vious speaker has left an utterance \hanging"(as in example (15)) or because the CR ini-tiator interrupts.
(15)14Sandy: if, if you try and do enchi-ladas orKatriane: Mhm.Sandy: ermKatriane: Tacos?Sandy: tacos.2.7 ConventionalA conventional form is available which ap-pears to indicate a complete breakdown in13BNC le KD7, sentences 392{39414BNC le KPJ, sentences 555{559communication.
This takes a number ofseemingly conventionalised forms such as\What?
", \Pardon?
", \Sorry?
", \Eh?
":(16)15Anon 2: Gone to the cinema tonightor summat.Kitty: Eh?Anon 2: Gone to the cinema3 Clarication ReadingsThis section presents the readings thathave been identied, together with ex-amples.
We follow G&C's proposedclausal/constituent/lexical split, with anadded reading for corrections.3.1 ClausalThe clausal reading takes as the basis forits content the content of the conversationalmove made by the utterance being claried.This reading corresponds roughly to \Areyou asking/asserting that X?
", or \For whichX are you asking/asserting that X?".
It fol-lows that the source utterance must have beenpartially grounded by the CR initiator, atleast to the extent of understanding the movebeing made.An attribute-value matrix (AVM) skeletonfor the semantic content of an HPSG signcorresponding to this reading (according toG&C's analysis) is shown below as AVM [1].It represents a question16, the propositionalcontent of which is the conversational movemade by the source utterance (shown here asbeing of type illoc(utionary)-rel(ation) { pos-sible subtypes include assert, ask) togetherwith the message associated with that move(e.g.
the proposition being asserted).
The pa-rameter set being queried can be either a con-stituent of that message (as would be the casein a sluice or wh-substituted form, where theCR question is the wh-question \For which Xare you asserting .
.
. ")
or empty (as would be15BNC le KPK, sentences 580{58216We adopt here the version of HPSG developed inG&S, wherein questions are represented as semanticobjects comprising a set of parameters (empty for apolar question) and a proposition.
This is the feature-structure counterpart of a -abstract wherein the pa-rameters are abstracted over the proposition.the case in a fragment or literal reprise form,where the CR question is the polar question\Are you asserting .
.
.
").
[1]266664questionparams f2g or f gprop j soa24illoc-reluttr1msg-arg.
.
.2. .
.353777753.2 ConstituentAnother possible reading is a constituentreading whereby the content of a constituentof the previous utterance is being claried.This reading corresponds roughly to\What/who is X?"
or \What/who do youmean by X?
", as shown in AVM [2], a descrip-tion of the content that would be given byG&C's analysis.
This shows a question whosepropositional content is the relation betweena sign (a constituent of the source utterance),its speaker, and the intended semantic con-tent.
The abstracted parameter is the con-tent.
[2]26666664questionparams f3gprop j soa2664spkr-meaning-relagent1sign2cont33775377777753.3 LexicalAnother possibility appears to be a lexicalreading.
This is closely related to the clausalreading, but is distinguished from it in thatthe surface form of the utterance is being clar-ied, rather than the content of the conversa-tional move.This reading therefore takes the form \Didyou utter X?"
or \What did you utter?".
TheCR initiator is attempting to identify or con-rm a word in the source utterance, ratherthan a part of the semantic content of theutterance.
This poses some interesting ques-tions if a full analysis for this reading is tobe integrated into the HPSG framework de-scribed above.3.4 CorrectionsThe correction reading appears be along thelines of \Did you intend to utter X (insteadof Y)?".
We do not as yet have a full analysisfor this reading.174 Corpus Analysis4.1 Aims and ProcedureOur intention was to investigate the formsand readings for CRs that are present in a cor-pus of dialogue.
For this purpose we used theBNC, which contains a 10 million word sub-corpus of English dialogue transcripts.
Forthis experiment, a sub-portion of the dialoguetranscripts was used consisting of c. 150,000words.
To maintain a spread across dialoguedomain, region, speaker age etc., this sub-portion was created by taking a 200-speaker-turn section from 59 transcripts.All CRs within this sub-corpus were iden-tied and tagged, using the markup schemeand decision process described in 4.2 and 4.3below.
At time of writing this process hasbeen performed by only one (expert) user {our intention is to conrm results by compar-ing with those obtained by naive users, usinge.g.
the kappa statistic (Carletta, 1996) toassess reliability.Initial identication of CRs was performedusing SCoRE (Purver, 2001), a search enginedeveloped specically for this purpose (in par-ticular, to allow searches for repeated wordsbetween speaker turns, and to display dia-logue in an intuitive manner).
However, inorder to ensure that all claricational phe-nomena were captured, the nal search andmarkup were performed manually.4.2 Markup SchemeThe markup scheme used evolved during themarkup process as new CR mechanisms wereidentied, and the nal scheme was as de-scribed here.
A multi-layered approach was17We suspect that corrections can in fact haveclausal, constituent or lexical sub-type, so this may infact not be a separate reading but a particular usageof those already established.
In this case correctionsmay be covered by the analyses given for other read-ings above, with a modied QUD coercion operation{ see (Ginzburg and Cooper, forthcoming).taken, along the lines of the DAMSL dialogueact markup scheme (Allen and Core, 1997) {this allowed sentences to be marked indepen-dently for three attributes: form, reading andsource.The form and reading attributes had -nite sets of possible values.
The possible val-ues were as described in sections 2 and 3,plus an extra catch-all category other to dealwith any otherwise uncategorisable phenom-ena.
The source attribute could take any in-teger value and was set to the number of thesentence that was being claried (accordingto the BNC sentence-numbering scheme).4.3 Decision ProcessFollowing the methods described in (Allenand Core, 1997), binary decision trees weredesigned to guide the classication process.The trees are designed so that a naive user canfollow them, but have yet to be tested in thisway.
Trees were produced for initial identi-cation of a CR, for classication of CR formand for determination of CR source.
Due tospace restrictions, the trees are not given here.In the (common) case of ambiguity of read-ing, the response(s) of other dialogue par-ticipants were examined to determine whichreading was chosen by them.
The ensuing re-action of the CR initiator was then used tojudge whether this interpretation was accept-able.
If the CR initiator gave no reaction,the reading was assumed to have been accept-able.
The following example (17) shows a casewhere the other participant's initial (clausal)reading was incorrect (the initiator is not sat-ised), as a constituent reading was required.In such cases, both CRs were marked as con-stituent.
(17)18George: you always had er er sayevery foot he had with apiece of spunyarn in thewireAnon 1: Spunyarn?George: Spunyarn, yesAnon 1: What's spunyarn?George: Well that's like er tarredrope18BNC le H5G, sentences 193{196In example (18), however, the other par-ticipant's clausal interpretation provokes nofurther reaction from the CR initiator, and istaken to be correct:(18)19Anon 1: you see the behind of TazSelassie: Tazmania?Anon 1: Yeah.Selassie: Oh this is so rubbish man.In order to facilitate this process in the caseof CRs near the beginning or end of the 200-turn section being marked, an additional 10turns of backward and forward context wereshown (but not themselves marked up).In the case of ambiguity as to which sen-tence was being claried, the most recent onewas taken as the source.4.4 ResultsThe BNC's SGML markup scheme (see(Burnard, 2000) for details) allows sub-corpora to be easily identied according to do-main.
This allowed us to collate results bothover all dialogue domains20, and restrictedto dialogue identied as demographic (non-context-governed).The distribution of CRs by form and read-ing are shown in full in table 1 (all dialoguedomains) and table 2 (demographic only).The distributions are presented as percent-ages of all CRs found.
This allows us tosee the proportion made up by each formand each reading, together with any correla-tions between form and reading, as discussedin full below.
Distributions are similar overboth sets, indicating that corpus size is largeenough to give repeatable results.Separation between CR and source sen-tence is shown in table 3 and gure 1, andis discussed below.4.4.1 Form/Reading DistributionCRs were found to make up just under 4%of sentences when calculated over the demo-19BNC le KNV, sentences 548{55120Domains identied by the BNC as context-governing for dialogue include educational (schoolclasses, lectures) and business (meetings, training ses-sions) { see (Burnard, 2000) for a full list.graphic portion, or just under 3% when cal-culated over all domains.
This is a signicantproportion, giving support to our claim thatprocessing of CRs is important for a dialoguesystem.The most common forms of CR can be seento be the conventional and reprise fragmentforms, with each making up over 25% of CRs.Non-reprise CRs and reprise sluices are alsocommon, each contributing over 10% of CRs.Other forms are all around 5% or less.Nearly 50% of CRs can be successfullyinterpreted as having a clausal reading, al-though both the lexical (about 35%) and con-stituent (about 15%) readings also make up asignicant proportion.This initially suggests that an automateddialogue system which can deal with frag-ments, sluices and reprise sentences (the anal-yses described in section 1), together withconventional and non-reprise CRs, could givereasonable coverage of expected dialogue.Fillers and especially gaps make up only asmall proportion.However, the high proportion of lexicalreadings suggests that a detailed analysis ofthis phenomenon will be required.4.4.2 CoverageThe coverage of the corpus by the formsand readings listed in this paper is good, withonly 0.5% of CR readings (2 sentences) andabout 1.5% of CR forms (6 sentences) beingclassied as other.The readings not covered were all express-ing surprise, amusement or outrage at a pre-vious utterance (rather than requesting clar-ication directly), and were all of the reprisefragment or conventional form.
Our intuitionis that these readings can be treated as clausalreadings with a further level of illocutionaryforce given by use in context.Of the 2 sentences left unclassied for form,one appears to be an unusual conventionalreading, and one an interesting example of aliteral reprise of an unuttered but implied sen-tence.4.4.3 Form/Reading CorrelationIt appears that of the non-conventionalreprise forms, only the reprise fragment re-quires an analysis that gives a constituentreading.
Even then, this reading is muchless common than the clausal reading, andwe intend further investigation into this fact.Sluices and reprise sentences appear always tobe satisfactorily interpretable by a clausal orlexical reading.21As few examples of the rarer forms wereobserved, it would be dangerous to attempt todraw any rm conclusions about the readingsthey can carry.
We can, however, tentativelysuggest that the gap and ller forms mightonly be used with a lexical reading.22One conclusion that can be safely drawnis that many readings are available for someforms (for example, the reprise fragment formwhich appears to allow all readings).
Thisimplies that disambiguation between readingswill be important for a dialogue system, andthis is an area we are currently examining.Possibilities for sources of information thatcould be used for disambiguation include di-alogue context and intonation.4.4.4 CR-Source SeparationThe maximum CSS distance observed was15 sentences.
Only one example of this dis-tance was observed, and one example of dis-tance 13 { otherwise all CSS distances werebelow 10 sentences.
It should be noted thatthe two long-distance cases were both seenin one dialogue which had more than onespeaker present (the dialogue was in a class-room situation with many people talking andone speaker attempting to clarify an utter-ance by the teacher), so may not be entirelyrepresentative of the situation expected withan automated dialogue system.The vast majority of CRs had a CSS dis-tance of one (i.e.
were clarifying the immedi-21Whether this is desirable is less certain.
G&S notethat echo and reference reprise sentences are intona-tionally distinct, and this seems also true for sluices.It may be that although the content of both can al-ways be expressed as clausal, there is good reason notto do so.22This runs contrary to our intuition which is thatthe gap form might have a constituent reading.ately preceding sentence { see gure 1), andover 96% had a distance of 4 or less.5 ConclusionsThe taxonomy of readings and forms givenin this paper has been shown to cover nearly99% of CRs within a corpus of dialogue.
Afull HPSG analysis has been given elsewherefor two of the four readings and four of theeight forms.Of the remaining readings, we believe thatthe lexical reading can be treated by an ex-tension of the existing analysis.
Correctionswill need further research but make up only asmall proportion of CRs.Of the remaining forms, we believe that two(non-reprise and conventional) can be accom-modated relatively smoothly within our cur-rent HPSG framework.
Gaps and llers, how-ever, present a signicant challenge and willbe the subject of future research.The measurements of CSS distance showthat an utterance record with length of theorder of ten sentences would be su?cient toallow a dialogue system to process the vastmajority of CRs.We are in the process of implement-ing our existing analyses for the CRforms and readings described above withina HPSG/TrindiKit-based dialogue systemwhich incorporates the ellipsis resolution ca-pability of SHARDS (Ginzburg et al, 2001a)and the dialogue move engine of GoDiS (Lars-son et al, 2000).
At time of writing, the sys-tem can successfully produce both clausal andconstituent readings.
As a result of the re-search outlined in this paper, a lexical readingis currently being implemented.Our results also suggest that investigationinto disambiguation of reading, possibly onthe basis of dialogue information state and/orintonation, will be required.ReferencesJames Allen and Mark Core.
1997.
Draft ofDAMSL: Dialog act markup in several layers.Peter Bohlin (Ljunglof), Robin Cooper, ElisabetEngdahl, and Staan Larsson.
1999.
Informa-tion states and dialogue move engines.
In JanAlexandersson, editor, IJCAI-99 Workshop onKnowledge and Reasoning in Practical DialogueSystems.Lou Burnard.
2000.
Reference Guide for theBritish National Corpus (World Edition).
Ox-ford University Computing Services.Jean Carletta.
1996.
Assessing agreement on clas-sication tasks: the kappa statistic.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 22(2):249{255.Herbert H. Clark.
1996.
Using Language.
Cam-bridge University Press.Charles Fletcher.
1994.
Levels of representationin memory for discourse.
In Morton Ann Gerns-bacher, editor, Handbook of Psycholinguistics.Academic Press.Jonathan Ginzburg and Robin Cooper.2001.
Resolving ellipsis in clarication.In ACL/EACL01 Conference Proceedings.Association for Computational Linguistics,July.Jonathan Ginzburg and Robin Cooper.
forthcom-ing.
Clarication, ellipsis and utterance repre-sentation.Jonathan Ginzburg and Ivan Sag.
2000.
Inter-rogative Investigations: the Form, Meaning andUse of English Interrogatives.
Number 123 inCSLI Lecture Notes.
CSLI Publications.Jonathan Ginzburg, Howard Gregory, and ShalomLappin.
2001a.
SHARDS: Fragment resolu-tion in dialogue.
In Harry Bunt, Ielka van derSluis, and Elias Thijsse, editors, Proceedings ofthe Fourth International Workshop on Compu-tational Semantics (IWCS-4), pages 156{172.ITK, Tilburg University, Tilburg.Jonathan Ginzburg, Ivan A.
Sag, and MatthewPurver.
2001b.
Integrating conversationalmove types in the grammar of conversation.In P. Kuhnlein, H. Rieser, and H. Zeevat, edi-tors, Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop on For-mal Semantics and Pragmatics of Dialogue.
BI-DIALOG.Jonathan Ginzburg.
1996.
Interrogatives: Ques-tions, facts and dialogue.
In Shalom Lappin,editor, The Handbook of Contemporary Seman-tic Theory, pages 385{422.
Blackwell.Staan Larsson, Peter Ljunglof, Robin Cooper,Elisabet Engdahl, and Stina Ericsson.
2000.GoDiS - an accommodating dialogue system.
InProceedings of ANLP/NAACL-2000 Workshopon Conversational Systems.Matthew Purver.
2001.
SCoRE: A tool for search-ing the BNC.
Technical report, Department ofComputer Science, King's College London.John R. Ross.
1969.
Guess who?
In R. I. Bin-nick, A. Davison, G. Green, and J. Morgan, ed-itors, Papers from the Fifth Regional Meeting ofthe Chicago Linguistic Society, pages 252{286.CLS, University of Chicago.Jacqueline D. Sachs.
1967.
Recognition mem-ory for syntactic and semantic aspects ofconnected discourse.
Perception and Psy-chophysics, 2:437{442.David Traum.
1994.
A Computational Theory ofGrounding in Natural Language Conversation.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Rochester.Teun A. van Dijk and Walter Kintsch.
1983.Strategies of Discourse Comprehension.
Aca-demic Press.Non- Literal Wh-sub Reprise Reprise Gap Gap Conve- Other TotalReprise Reprise Reprise Sluice Fragmt Filler ntionalClausal 4.3 4.8 1.0 10.7 25.2 0 0 0 0.5 46.5Constituent 7.6 0 0 0 1.7 0 0 5.3 0 14.5Lexical 0.7 0 2.6 2.1 0.2 0.5 3.8 25.0 0 35.0Correction 1.0 0.5 0 0 1.0 0 0 0 0 2.4Other 0 0 0 0 1.0 0 0 0.5 0 1.4Total 13.6 5.3 3.6 12.8 29.1 0.5 3.8 30.7 0.5 100.0Table 1: CR form and type as percentage of CRs { all domainsNon- Literal Wh-sub Reprise Reprise Gap Gap Conve- Other TotalReprise Reprise Reprise Sluice Fragmt Filler ntionalClausal 4.1 4.7 1.0 11.3 24.8 0 0 0 0.5 46.5Constituent 6.2 0 0 0 1.8 0 0 5.7 0 13.6Lexical 0.8 0 2.6 2.3 0.3 0.5 3.1 26.3 0 35.9Correction 1.0 0.5 0 0 1.0 0 0 0 0 2.6Other 0 0 0 0 0.8 0 0 0.5 0 1.3Total 12.1 5.2 3.6 13.6 28.6 0.5 3.1 32.5 0.5 100.0Table 2: CR form and type as percentage of CRs { demographic portionDistance 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15All domains 8 291 36 16 10 3 4 0 2 2 0 0 0 1 0 1Demographic 7 264 34 16 9 3 4 0 2 2 0 0 0 1 0 1Table 3: Number of CRs vs. CR-Source Separation DistanceFigure 1: Percentage of CRs vs. CR-Source Separation Distance
