Crosslingual Language Technologies for Knowledge Creationand Knowledge SharingHans UszkoreitDFKI Language Technology LabStuhlsatzenhausweg 366123 Saarbruecken, Germanyuszkoreit@dfki.dewww.dfki.de/~hansu/A large and fast growing part of corporateknowledge is encoded in electronic texts.Although digital information repositories arebecoming truly multimedial, human languagewill remain the only medium for preserving andsharing complex concepts, experiences andideas.
It is also the only medium suited forexpressing metainformation.
For a human readera text has a rich structure, for a data processingmachine it is merely a string of symbols.Classical information retrieval helps to sort andfind information in large libraries of documentsby matching strings of characters.
Effectiveinformation management is a building block ofmodern knowledge management.
However,language technology can contribute much morethan methods for finding information.A number of areas in which languagetechnologies can improve knowledgemanagement are described in Maybury (in thisvolume).
We will concentrate on examples inwhich language technologies can facilitate thecreation of new knowledge from large volumesof textual information and the sharing ofknowledge accross language boundaries.1 Knowledge SharingOne of the true challenges of KM is thedevelopment and implementation of schemesthat make people share knowledge and use suchshared knowledge in critical situations.
Offeringincentives for the sharing of knowledge is notsufficient.
The valuable information needs to beoffered in situations where it is needed.
It alsoneeds to be evaluated in such situations becauseany effective incentive scheme might lead toinformation overflow if the quality of theprovided information cannot be assessed.Language technology can provide means forassociating shared knowledge with the relevantdecision situations by automatically linking it tothe critical elements within decision triggers, i.e,electronic documents in the workflow thatdemand and record a decision.Together with some simple statistical methodsthis method can also support a scheme forevaluating shared information with a minimumof additional effort.
The language technologythat can be applied for this purpose we callautomatic relational hyperlinking.
Relationalhyperlinks differ from the simple hyperlinks ofHTML in that they are composed out of anumber of named links that can be selected froma menu.Language technology is needed for identifyingand disambiguating the concepts in documentsthat need to be linked.
To this end, techniquesfrom information extraction are employed suchas named entity recognition.
When automatichyperlinking associates information to decisionsituations, an evaluation can be enforced withoutan additional burden on the user.Automatic hyperlinking can also be applied fortransforming information into knowledge-likestructures.
By densely interconnectinginformational elements, three criteria are metthat distinguish knowledge from other forms ofinformation: immediate accessability, groundingof pieces of knowledge and associativestructure.
The important fourth criterion is thesuitability for inferencing, however in thisapplication scenario inferencing is notperformed by the machine but by the humanuser of the service.This method has been applied in the systemHypercode of the DFKI LT Lab.
The originalpurpose of this system which was developed fora large German bank is to facilitate work withlegacy code.
Hypercode provides denseassociative relational hyperlinking to programcode and documentation.
By denselyinterlinking code and documentation, theknowledge encoded in the documentationbecomes much more accessible and usable.
Themethods of Hypercode were also applied forenriching a new WWW-based informationservice of the Saarland State Government forstart-up companies.2 Crosslingual KnowledgeManagementGlobalization forces companies to becomemultilingual.
The language of customerinteraction should be the preferred language ofthe customer.
The language for knowledgesharing should be preferred language of theexperts who voluntarily provide the knowledge.On the other hand, the language of knowledgesharing has to be a language that the potentialusers of the information understand.
Thelanguages of provider and users may differ.Moreover, in a multinational enterprise theremay be user communities that extend acrossseveral native languages.
Translation is costlyand may delay the exploitation of sharedknowledge.
Automatic translation offers alter-native solutions.
Even the best machine trans-lation systems cannot translate unseen textswithout grammatical or stylistic errors.However, for the purpose of knowledge sharingoften a so called content translation or anindicative translation will suffice.
Such atranslation can be provided by existingtranslation systems.
Factual errors can beavoided by augmenting the general purposetranslation systems with specialized terminologyand transfer rules.
We will exemplify theutilization of specialized indicative machinetranslation for multilingual expert groups by aproject for a large multinational automobilemanufacturer.Finally we will provide an overview of othercrosslingual language technologies and theirpotential for crosslingual knowledge manage-ment.
In this context, we will point to a numberof European R&D projects in which consortiacomposed of academic and industrial partnersimprove or adapt language technologies such asinformation retrieval, information extraction andsummarization for knowledge managementapplications in multilingual applicationsscenarios.ReferencesGlushko, R. J.
(1989): Transforming Text IntoHypertext For a Compact Disc Encyclopedia,In: Proceedings of CHI '89, ACM Press.Jacobs, P. (1997) Text Interpretation: ExtractingInformation.
In: R.A. Cole, J. Mariani, H.Uszkoreit, A.Zaenen, V. Zue (eds.
): Survey ofthe State of the Art in Human LanguageTechnology, Cambridge University Press andGiardini.Piskorski, J.  and G. Neumann (2000) AnIntelligent Text Extraction and NavigationSystem.
In : Proceedings of 6th InternationalConference on Computer-Assisted InformationRetrieval (RIAO-2000), Paris.Pustejovsky, J., B. Boguraev, M. Verhagen, P.Buitelaar,.
and M. Johnston (1997): SemanticIndexing and Typed Hyperlinking.
In:Proceedings of the American Association forArtical Intelligence Conference, SpringSymposium, NLP for WWW.. StanfordUniversity, CA, 120-128.
