PrefaceMike RosnerDept.
CSAIUniversity of MaltaMSD06Maltamros@cs.um.edu.mtThis workshop is something of an accident.
Theoriginal intention was to have two separateworkshops, one devoted to educational issues inNL technologies, and the other to infrastructuresfor sharing computational language resources.Each of these proposed workshops had a historyof their own.The general problems of sharing, re-use anddistribution of resources and tools has been withus for a long time.
Only recently, however, havewe seen the emergence of archives not only ofsignificant size, but of a variety that reflects anamazing degree of specialisation in terms ofboth type of content, type of language, type ofuser and so on.
The development of such"designer" archives is due partly to theavailability of cheap computing power and massstorage (that even University laboratories canafford!
), partly to a shift in perspective towardsempirical methods, and partly to the ever-increasing ease with which such materials canbe accessed via Internet.
Good examples ofexisting initiatives in this area are, on the dataside, ELRA/ELDA, LDC, TELRI and elsnetresource catalogues and repositories.
On thetools side we have, amongst others, the ACLNatural Language Software Registry (hosted atDFKI) which was set up as a repository for toolsfor the distinct fields of Human LanguageTechnology (HLT).Mere proliferation of data is not necessarilyconducive to improved practice, however, and ata workshop at ACL 2000 in Hong Kongdedicated to Infrastructures for GlobalCollaboration there was an agreement betweenthe main professional organisations in NLP andSpeech (ACL and ISCA), and elsnet, and theother meeting participants, that it would beuseful to aim at a broadly supported, jointrepository or catalogue for tools and materialsfor the language and speech communities.
Thatis roughly the background to the infrastructuresworkshop.The education workshop has a somewhatdifferent history.
The first point to note is thatteaching in this area, whether it be from theperspective of Computational Linguistics, NLPor AI, involves a high proportion (approximately40% according to DeSmedt's (1999) survey) ofpractical exercises and projects, the organisationof which depends on the availabilitycomputational infrastructure.
All of thoseinvolved in teaching eventually discover thesame basic problem: there are relatively fewresources, both tools and data, that are directlyuseable as the basis for instruction, compared tothe total volume of resources that are actuallyavailable.
That is, in general, the educationallyuseful yield that results from trawling the net, ispitifully low, and may be getting lower as thesupply increases.
The main reason for this is thatmost of the material has evolved to fulfil theneeds of research, not education.
Consequently,the best strategy is often to just go onreinventing our own wheels for our ownpurposes: hardly an optimal use of existingresources.An ELSNET-sponsored workshop was held atEACL99 in Bergen to address these issues.Some excellent individual efforts at providingtools that buck the trend were presented there(see Rosner 1999).
However, the mainconclusion, which, incidentally, is echoed inDeSmedt's survey, is that certain non-transientinfrastructures needed to be instigated to raisethe public perception of educational issues inComputational Linguistics.
There was talk offounding an entity within EACL that could takeon the function of coordinating training-relatedactivities - as has already happened in ISCA.Well, this has not happened yet, but it is salutaryto note that something else has: one non-transient infrastructure, founded in January 2000under the auspices of elsnet, is the EuropeanMasters in Language and Speech, which isprobably the first example of a tertiary level"qualification" that transcends nationalboundaries.A second conclusion at the EACL workshopwas the need for a repository of sharedmaterials, appropriately indexed for educationalusage.
Some effort towards that end has beenachieved through JEWELS, an EU-supportedwebsite for educational materials in Languageand Speech.It seems clear that another infrastructure that isbadly needed to support such initiatives is anentity whose primary tasks would be thecreation of a maintainable multilingualtaxonomy of the subject matter in order toenable a consistent naming policy to be agreedupon concerning both courses, and thecorresponding resources.This workshop will build on the consensusreached at these previous workshops.
As can beseen from the presentations, there are two clearfoci: one upon sharable tools, the other oninstruments for sharing tools and resources ingeneral.
A third theme concerns how to buildupon existing initiatives as sources of data orinspiration.The main goal of the workshop is to discussmethods for the improvement and extension ofexisting repositories; the educational uses ofrepositories; the closer interlinking betweendifferent kinds of repositories (tools andresources); global infrastructures for theachievement of joint actions.
However, weexpect the scope of the workshop to be muchwider than that, as the issues addressed are ofgeneral interest to everybody who believes thatsharing tools and resources is essential for theprogress of research and education in our field.To conclude, some words of thanks: to ThierryDeclerck, Steven Krauwer and the othermembers of the workshop committee who alldoubled as referees, for their help, patience andcomments.Our final acknowledgement goes to elsnet, butnot just for sponsoring our invited speaker.
Ifone looks carefully at many of the otherinitiatives that have been mentioned in this shortintroduction, it clear that the support shown forthis workshop is no mere coincidence, but partof a dastardly long-term strategy to promote thestatus of our theme and also related ones within,and somewhat beyond the bounds ofComputational Linguistics.Long may this strategy continue!Referencesde Smedt.
K. et.
al.
European Studies onComputational Linguistics, University of Bergen1999.Rosner M. (ed).
Proceedings of the Workshop onComputer and Internet Supported Educationin Language and Speech Technology, EACL-99.ACL NL Software Registry, http://registry.dfki.deLDC (Linguistic Data Consortium)http://www.ldc.upenn.eduTELRI (Trans European Language ResourcesInfrastructure) http://www.telri.deELSNET http://www.elsnet.org/resources.htmlELRA/ELDA http://www.icp.inpg.fr/ELRAJEWELS website http://www.elsnet.org/jewels.html.
