The Annotation of Temporal Informationin Natural Language SentencesGraham Katz and Fabrizio ArosioSFB 411Univertit?t T?bingenNauklerstr.
35D-72074 T?bingen, Germanygraham.katz@uni-tuebingen.defabrizio.arosio@uni-tuebingen.de.AbstractThe aim of this paper is to presenta language-neutral, theory-neutralmethod for annotating sentence-internal temporal relations.
Theannotation method is simple andcan be applied without specialtraining.
The annotations areprovided with a well-definedmodel-theoretic interpretation foruse in the content-basedcomparison of annotations.Temporally annotated corporahave a number of applications, inlexicon/induction, translation andlinguistic investigation.
Asearchable multi-languagedatabase has already been created.1 IntroductionIn interpreting narratives the most essentialinformation to be extracted is who did whatwhere, when and why, the classic journalisticimperatives.
The ?who?
and ?what?
informationis usually expressed overtly, and this has made itpossible to apply empirical techniques toproblems in this domain (such as word-senseclassification and argument structure mapping).The ?when?
and ?where?
information is,however, often left implicit, or, at least, onlypartially specified, making it difficlut to applysuch techniques to this domain.Formal semantic theories of temporalinterpretation (e.g.
Kamp & Reyle 1993;Ogihara 1996; Abusch 1997) have been quitesuccessful at specifying the contribution thatsuch overt markers as tenses and temporaladverbials make to the meaning of a sentence ordiscourse.
Investigations into the interpretationof narrative discourse (Lascarides & Asher1993, Reyle & Rossdeutscher 2000) have,however, shown that very specific lexicalinformation plays an important role indetermining temporal interpretation.
As of yet itis not clear how this kind of lexical informationcould be automatically acquired.
The mostpromising avenue for acquiring lexicalinformation appears to be automatic inductionfrom very large annotated corpora (Rooth, et.
al.1998).
In order to apply these techniques to thetemporal domain it is necessary that thetemporal information be made explicit.
Our taskhere is to provide a system of temporalannotation that fulfills this requirement.The systems for temporal annotation we arefamiliar with have been concerned either withabsolute temporal information (Wiebe, et.
al.1998, Androutsopoulos, Rithie & Thanisch1997), or with the annotation of overt markers(Setzer & Gaizauskas 2000).
Much temporalinformation, however, is not absolute butrelative and not overtly marked but implicit.
Weare frequently only interested (and only haveinformation about) the order events occurred in.And while there are sometimes overt markersfor these temporal relations, the conjunctionsbefore, after and when being the most obvious,usually this kind of relational information isimplicit.
The examples in (1) illustrate thephenomenon.
(1) a. John kissed the girl he met at the party.b.
Leaving the party, John walked home.c.
He remembered talking to her and askingher for her name.Although there are no obvious markers for thetemporal ordering of the events described inthese sentences, native speakers have clearintuitions about what happened when: we knowthat the kissing took place after the meeting andthat the asking was part of the talking.
But howdo we know this?
And ?
more importantly ?how could this information be automaticallyextracted from these sentences?
These are thequestions that motivate the development of ourannotation system.We believe that the creation of a large scaletreebank annotated with relational temporalinformation as well as standard morphologicaland syntactic information will make it possibleto investigate these issues productively.
Theannotated treebank must be large scale for theobvious reason that the application of stochasticmethods requires this.
It should be syntacticallyas well as semantically annotated because weconsider it quite likely that syntactic as well aslexical information plays a role in temporalinterpretation.
We don?t know a priori whetherin (1a) it is the lexical relationship between kissand meet that is crucial to determining thetemporal interpretation, or whether the fact thatmeet is in a subordinate clause ?
the syntacticrelation ?
also plays a role.
To answer thesekinds of questions it is necessary to encode thetemporal information conveyed by a sentence ina way which makes addressing such questionspossible.What we describe below is a practical systemfor encoding relational temporal informationthat is suited to large-scale hand annotation oftexts.
This system has a number of applicationsbeyond this, both in the domain of cross-linguistic investigation and in empirical NLP.2 Temporal annotationThe idea of developing a treebank enriched withsemantic information is not new.
In particularsuch semantically annotated corpora have beenused in research on word sense disambiguation(wordNet, Eagles, Simple) and semantics roleinterpretation (Eagles).
The public availabilityof large syntactically annotated treebanks (Penn,Verbmobil, Negra) makes such work attractive,particularly in light of the success that empiricalmethods have had (Kilgarriff & Rosenzweig2000).
Traditional semantic representationalformalisms such as DRT (Kamp & Reyle 1993)are ill suited to semantic annotation.
Since theseformalisms are developed in the service oftheories of natural language interpretation, theyare ?
rightly ?
both highly articulated and highlyconstrained.
In short, they are often too complexand sometimes not expressive enough for thepurposes at hand (as the experience of Poesio et.al.
(1999) makes clear).
Our proposal here is toadopt a radically simplified semantic formalismwhich, by virtue of its simplicity, is suited thetemporal-annotation application.The temporal interpretation of a sentence, forour purposes, can simply be taken to be the setof temporal relations that a speaker naturallytakes to hold among the states and eventsdescribed by the verbs of the sentence.
To put itmore formally, we associate with each verb atemporal interval, and concern ourselves withrelations among these intervals.
Of the intervalrelations discussed by Allen (1984), we will beconcerned with only two: precedence andinclusion.
Taking ttalk to be the time of talkingtask to be the time of asking and tremember to be thetime of remembering, the temporalinterpretation (1c), for example, can be given bythe following table:ttalk task trememberttalk <task ?
<trememberSuch a table, in effect, stores the nativespeaker?s judgement about the most naturaltemporal interpretation of the sentence.Since our goal was to annotate a large number ofsentences with their temporal interpretations,with the goal of examining the interactionbetween the lexical and syntactic structure, itwas imperative that the interpretation be closelytied to its syntactic context.
We needed to keeptrack of both the semantic relations among timesreferred to by the words in a sentence and thesyntactic relations among the words in thesentences that refer to these times, but not muchmore.
By adopting existing technology forsyntactic annotation, we were able do this quitedirectly, by essentially building the informationin this table into the syntax.2.1 The annotation systemTo carry out our temporal annotation, we madeuse of the Annotate tool for syntactic annotationdeveloped in Saarbr?cken by Brants and Plaehn(2000).
We exploited an aspect of the systemoriginally designed for the annotation ofanaphoric relations: the ability to link twoarbitrary nodes in a syntactic structure by meansof labeled ?secondary edges.?
This allowed us toadd a layer of semantic annotation directly tothat of syntactic annotation.A sentence was temporally annotated by linkingthe verbs in the sentence via secondary edgeslabeled with the appropriate temporal relation.As we were initially only concerned with therelations of precedence and inclusion, we onlyhad four labels: ?<?
, ??
?, and their duals.Sentence (1a), then, is annotated as in (2).
(2)     John kissed the girl he met at the partyThe natural ordering relation between thekissing and the meeting is indicated by thelabeled edge.
Note that the edge goes from theverb associated with the event that fills the firstargument of the relation to the verb associatedwith the event that fills the second argument ofthe relation.The annotation of (1c), which was somewhatmore complex, indicates the two relations thathold among the events described by thesentence.
(3) He remembered talking and asking her nameIn addition to encoding the relations among theevents described in a sentence, we anticipatedthat it would be useful to encode also therelationship between these events and the time atwhich the sentence is produced.
This is, after all,what tenses usually convey.
To encode thistemporal indexical information, we introduceinto the annotation an explicit representation ofthe speech time.
This is indicated by the ?
?
?symbol, which is automatically prefaced to allsentences prior to annotation.The complete annotation for sentence (1a), then,is (4).
(4)    ?
John kissed the girl he met at the partyAs we see in (5), this coding scheme enables usto represent the different interpretations that pasttensed and present tensed clauses have.
(5)    ?
John kissed the girl who is at the partyNotice that we do not annotate the tensesthemselves directly.Note that in the case of reported speech, the timeassociated with the embedding verb plays, forthe embedded sentence, much the same role thatthe speech time plays for the main clause.Formally, in fact, the relational analysis implicitin our notation makes it possible to avoid manyof the problems associated with the treatment ofthese constructions (such as those discussed atlength by von Stechow (1995)).
We set theseissues aside here.It should be clear that we are not concerned withgiving a semantics for temporal markers, butrather with providing a language within whichwe can describe the temporal informationconveyed by natural language sentences.
Withthe addition of temporal indexical annotation,our annotation system gains enough expressivepower to account for most of the relationalinformation conveyed by natural languagesentences.
Left out at this point is temporal-metrical information such as that conveyed bythe adverbial ?two hours later.
?2.2 Annotation procedureThe annotation procedure itself is quitestraightforward.
We begin with a syntacticallyannotated treebank and add the speech timemarker to each of the sentences.
The annotatorthen simply marks the temporal relations amongverbs and the speech time for each sentence inthe corpus.
This is accomplished in accordancewith the following conventions:(i) temporal relations are encoded withdirected ?secondary edges?
;>> >> ?> ?
(ii) the edge goes from the element that fillsthe first argument of the relation to theelement that fills the second;(iii) edge labels indicate the temporal relationthat holds;(iv) edge labels can be ?>?, ?<?, ???
and ??
?Annotators are instructed to annotate thesentences as they naturally understand them.When the treebank is made up of a sequence ofconnected text, the annotators are encouraged tomake use of contextual information.The annotation scheme is simple, explicit andtheory neutral.
The annotator needs only toexercise his native competence in his languageand he doesn?t need any special training intemporal semantics or in any specific formallanguage; in pilot studies we have assembledsmall temporal annotated databases in fewhours.
Our current database consists of 300sentences from six languages.2.3 Comparing annotationsIt is well known that hand-annotated corpora areprone to inconsistency (Marcus, Santorini &Marcinkiewicz, 1993) and to that end it isdesirable that the corpus be multiply annotatedby different annotators and that theseannotations be compared.
The kind of semanticannotation we are proposing here introduces anadditional complexity to inter-annotationcomparison, in that the consistency of anannotation is best defined not in formal termsbut in semantic terms.
Two annotations shouldbe taken to be equivalent, for example, if theyexpress the same meanings, even if they usedifferent sets of labeled edges.To make explicit what semantic identity is, weprovide our annotations with a model theoreticinterpretation.
The annotations are interpretedwith respect to a structure D,<,?
, where D isthe domain (here the set of verbs tokens in thecorpus) and < and ?
are binary relations on D.Models for this structure are assignments ofpairs of entities in D to < and ?
satisfying thefollowing axioms:- ?x,y,z.
x<y & y<z ?
x<z- ?x,y,z.
x?y & y?z ?
x?z- ?w,x,y,z.
x<y & z?x & w?y ?
z<w- ?w,x,y,z.
x<y & y<z & x ?w & z?w ?
y?wThus < and ?
have the properties one wouldexpect for the precedence and inclusion relation.We are assuming that in the cases of interestverbs refer to simply convex events.
Intuitively,the set of verb tokens in the corpus correspondsthe set of times at which an event or state of thetype indicated by the verb takes place or holds.In our corpus the number of sentences thatinvolved quantified or generic event referencewas quite low.An annotated relation of the following formX1  X2is satisfied in a model iff the model assigns<X1,X2> to R if R is < or ?, or <X2,X1> to R ifR is > or ?.
A sentence is satisfied by a modeliff all relations associated with the sentence aresatisfied by the model.
Intuitively an annotatedis satisfied by a model if the model assigns theappropriate relation to the verbs occurring in thesentence.There are four semantic relations that can holdamong between annotations.
These can bedefined in model-theoretic terms:?
Annotation A and B are equivalent if allmodels satisfying A satisfy B and all modelssatisfying B satisfy A.?
Annotation A subsumes annotation B iff allmodels satisfying B satisfy A.?
Annotations A and B are consistent iff thereare models satisfying both A and B.?
Annotations A and B are inconsistent ifthere are no models satisfying both A and B.We can also define the minimal model satisfyingan annotation in the usual way.
We can thencompute a distance measure between twoannotations by comparing set of modelssatisfying the annotations.
Let MA be the modelssatisfying A and MB be those satisfying B andMAB be those satisfying both (simply shorthandfor the intersection of MA and MB).
Then thedistance between A and B can be defined as:d(A,B) = (|MA- MAB| + |MB-MAB|)/ |MAB|In other words, the distance is the number ofrelation pairs that are not shared by theannotations normalized by the number that theyRdo share.
We can use this metric to quantify the?goodness?
of both annotations and annotators.Consider again (1c).
We gave one annotation forthis in (3).
In (6) and (7) there are twoalternative annotations.
(6) He remembered talking and asking her name(7) He remembered talking and asking her nameAs we can compute on the basis of the semanticsfor the annotations (6) is equivalent with (3) ?they are no distance apart, while (7) isinconsistent with (3) ?
they are infinitely farapart.
The annotation (8) is compatible (7) and isa distance of 1 away from it.
(8) He remembered talking and asking her nameAs in the case of structural annotation, there area number of ways of resolving inter-annotatorvariation.
We can chose the most informativeannotation as the correct one, or the mostgeneral.
Or we can combine annotations.
Theintersection of two compatible annotations givesan equally compatible annotation which containsmore information than either of the two alone.We do not, as of yet, have enough data todetermine which of these strategies is mosteffective.In preliminary work, we had two annotatorsannotate 50 complex sentences extractedrandomly from the BNC.
The results were quiteencouraging.
Although the annotations wereidentical in only 70% of the cases, theannotations were semantically consistent in 85%of the cases.3 Applications of temporalannotationThere are any number of applications for atemporally annotated corpus such as that wehave been outlining.
Lexicon induction is themost interesting, but, as we indicated at theoutset, this is a long-term project, as it requires asignificant investment in hand annotation.
Wehope to get around this problem.
But even still,there are a number of other applications whichrequire less extensive corpora, but which are ofsignificant interest.
One of these has formed theinitial focus of our research, and this is thedevelopment of a searchable multilingualdatabase.3.1 Multilingual databaseOur annotation method has been applied tosentences from a variety of languages, creating asearchable multi-language treebank.
Thisdatabase allows us to search for sentences thatexpress a given temporal relation in a language.We have already developed a pilot multilingualdatabase with sentences from the Verbmobildatabase (see an example in fig.
1) and we havedeveloped a query procedure in order to extractrelevant information.Fig.1 A temporally annotated sentence from the VerbmobilEnglish treebank as displayed by @nnotate.As can be seen, the temporal annotation isentirely independent of the syntactic annotation.In the context of the Annotate environment anumber of tools have been developed (and areunder development) for the querying ofstructural relations.
Since each sentence is storedin the relational database with both syntactic andtemporal semantic annotations, it is possible tomake use of these querying tools to query onstructures, on meanings, and on structures andmeanings together.
For example a query such as:?Find the sentences containing a relative clausewhich is interpreted as temporally overlappingthe main clause?
can be processed.
This query is> >>> ?>encoded as a partially specified tree, as indicatedbelow:In this structure, both the syntactic configurationof the relative clause and the temporal relationsbetween the matrix verb and the speech time andbetween the matrix verb and the verb occurringin the relative clause are represented.
Queryingour temporally annotated treebank with thisrequest yields the following result:The application to cross-linguistic researchshould be clear.
It is now possible to use theannotated tree-bank as an informant by storingthe linguistically relevant aspects of thetemporal system of a language in a compactsearchable database.3.2 Aid for translation technologyAnother potential application of the annotationsystem is as an aid to automatic translationsystems.
That the behaviour of tenses differfrom language to language makes the translationof tenses difficult.
In particular, the applicationof example-based techniques faces seriousdifficulties (Arnold, et.
al.
1994).
Adding theintended temporal relation to the database ofsource sentences makes it possible to moderatethis problem.For example in Japanese (9a) is properlytranslated as (10a) on one reading, where theembedded past tense is translated as a presenttense, but as (10b) on the other, where the verbis translated as a past tense.
(9) a. Bernard said that Junko was sick(10)a. Bernard-wa Junko ga byookida to it-talit: Bernard said Junko is sickb.
Bernard-wa Junko-ga byookidata to it-ta.lit: Bernard said Junko was sick.Only the intended reading can distinguish thesetwo translations.
If this is encoded as part of theinput, we can hope to achieve much morereasonable output.3.3 Extracting cues for temporalinterpretationWhile we see this sort of cross-linguisticinvestigation as of intrinsic interest, our realgoal is the investigation of the lexical andgrammatical cues for temporal interpretation.
Asalready mentioned, the biggest problem is one ofscale.
Generating a temporally annotatedtreebank of the size needed is a seriousundertaking.It would, of course, be of great help to be able topartially automate this task.
To that end we arecurrently engaged in research attempting to useovert cues such as perfect marking and temporalconjunctions such as before and after tobootstrap our way towards a temporallyannotated corpus.
Briefly, the idea is to usethese overt markers to tag a corpus directly andto use this to generate a table of lexicalpreferences.
So, for example, the sentence (11)can be tagged automatically, because of thepresence of the perfect marking.
(11)    ?
John kissed the girl he had metThis automatic tagging will allow us to assemblean initial data set of lexical preferences, such asthat that would appear to hold between kiss andmeet.
If this initial data is confirmed bycomparison with hand-tagged data, we can useSVBSHDVB?HD[ST]>ADJ> >this information to automatically annotate amuch larger corpus based on these lexicalpreferences.
It may then be possible to begin tocarry out the investigation of cues to temporalinterpretation before we have constructed a largehand-coded temporally annotated treebank.4 ConclusionsWe have described a simple and generaltechnique for the annotation of relationaltemporal information in naturally occurringsentences.
This annotation system is intendedfor use in the large-scale annotation of corpora.The annotations are provided with a modeltheoretic semantics.
This semantics provides thebasis for a content-based system for comparingand evaluating inter-annotator agreement.Temporally annotated corpora such as those weare developing have a number of applications inboth corpus-based theoretical work, and inpractical applications.
Of particular interest to usis the promise such annotated databases bring tothe problem of extracting automatically lexicalinformation about stereotypical orderingrelations among events that are used by nativespeakers to interpret sentences temporally.
Wesee this application as the main future researchto be carried out.ReferencesAbusch, Dorit.
1997.
Sequence of Tense andTemporal De Re.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, 20: 1-50.Allen, James F. 1984.
A General Model ofAction and Time.
Artificial Intelligence23, 2.Androutsopoulos, Ion, Graeme D. Ritchie andPeter Thanisch.
1998.
Time, Tense andAspect in Natural Language DatabaseInterfaces.
Natural Language Engineering,vol.
4, part 3: 229-276, CambridgeUniversity Press.Arnold, Doug, Lorna Balkan, R. LeeHumphreys, Siety Meijer and Louisa Sadler.1994.
Machine Translation: an introductoryguide.
Blackwells/NCC, London.Brants, Thorsten and Oliver Plaehn.
2000.Interactive Corpus Annotation.
In SecondInternational Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC-2000),Athens, Greece.Kamp, Hans and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
FromDiscourse to Logic.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers, Dordrecht, Holland.Kilgarriff, Adam and Joseph Rosenzweig.
2000.Framework and Results for EnglishSENSEVAL.
Special Issue on SENSEVAL:Computers and the Humanities, 34 (1-2):15-48.Lascarides, Alex and Nicholas Asher.
1993.
ASemantics and Pragmatics for the Pluperfect.In Proceedings of the Sixth EuropeanChapter of the Association of ComputationalLinguistics, Utrecht.Marcus, Mitchell P., Beatrice Santorini andMary Ann Marcinkiewicz.
1993.
Building alarge annotated corpus of English: the PennTreebank.
Computational linguistics, 19:313-330.Ogihara, Toshiyuki.
1996.
Tense, Scope andAttitude Ascription.
Kluwer, Dordrecht,Holland.Poesio, Massimo, Renate Henschel, JanetHitzeman, Rodger Kibble, Shane Montague,and Kees van Deemter.
1999.
?Towards AnAnnotation Scheme For Noun PhraseGeneration?, Proc.
of the EACL Workshopon Linguistically Interpreted Corpora.Bergen.Reyle, Uwe and Antje Rossdeutscher.
2000.Understanding very short stories, ms. Institutf?r Maschinelle Sprachverarbeitung,Universit?t Stuttgart.Rooth, Mats, Stefan Riezler, Detlef Prescher,Sabine Schulte im Walde, Glenn Carroll andFranz Beil.
1998.
Inducing Lexicons with theEM Algorithm.
AIMS Report 4(3).
Institut f?rMaschinelle Sprachverarbeitung, Universit?tStuttgart.Setzer, Andrea and Robert Gaizauskas.
2000.Annotating Events and TemporalInformation in Newswire Texts.
In SecondInternational Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC-2000),Athens, Greece.von Stechow, Arnim.
1995.
The ProperTreatment of Tense.
In Proceedings ofSemantics and Linguistic Theory V. 362-386.CLC Publications.
Cornell University.Ithaca, NY.Vazov, Nikolay and Guy Lapalme.
2000.Identification of Temporal Structure inFrench.
Proceeding of the Workshop of the7th International Conference on Principles ofKnowledge Representation and Reasoning,Breckenridge, Colorado.Wiebe, Janyce, Tom O?Hara, KennethMcKeever, and Thorsten ?hrstr?m-Sandgren.
1998.
An Empirical Approach toTemporal Reference Resolution.
Journal ofArtificial Intelligence Research, 9: 247-293.
