Toward a Large Spontaneous Mandarin Dialogue CorpusShu-Chuan TSENGInstitute of Linguistics,Academia Sinica, Nankang115 Taipei, Taiwan,tsengsc@gate.sinica.edu.twAbstractThis paper addresses recent results onMandarin spoken dialogues and introducesthe collection of a large Mandarinconversational dialogue corpus.
In thecontext of data processing, principles oftranscription are proposed and accordingly atranscription tool is specifically developedfor Mandarin spoken conversations.IntroductionLarge speech corpora have become indispensablefor current linguistic research and informationscience applications dealing with spoken data(Gibbon et al 1997).
Concretely, they providereal phonetic data and empirical data-drivenknowledge on linguistic features of spokenlanguage.
The corpus presented here is composedof conversational dialogues.
Conversationscontain a considerable variety of linguisticphenomena as well as phonetic-acousticvariations.
Furthermore, they open up a widerange of research issues such as dialogue acts,turn-taking, lexical use of spoken language andprosodic use in conversation.
From a diachronicpoint of view, such a large dialogue corpusarchives the contemporary daily conversationaluse of a given language.1 General Issues on Mandarin DialoguesIn the following, issues on Mandarin dialoguesrelevant to spontaneous dialogue annotation aresummarized and discussed.
It includes lexicaldistribution, discourse markers, turn-taking andprosodic characterization.1.1 Lexical Distribution in Spoken MandarinResults presented by Tseng (2001) show thatspeakers of Mandarin adopt some 30 words forbuilding core structures of utterances inconversation, independently of individualspeakers.
All subjects used these words morethan three times.
The occurrences of these 30core words make up about 80% of the overalltokens in conversation.
Interestingly but alsoexpected in conversational dialogues, thedistribution of token frequency across all subjectsis highly symmetric (Tseng 2001).
For instance,verbs ?is located?, ?is?, ?that is?, ?say?, ?want?and ?have?
were frequently used, so werepronouns ?s/he?, ?you?
and ?I?.
The negation?don?t have?
was a high-frequency word, so werewords ?right?, ?this/these?
and ?that/those?.Grammatical particles as well as discourseparticles were also among the core words.1.2 Discourse MarkersIt is now well known that what differentiateswritten texts from spontaneous speech most is theuse of discourse particles.
Among the core words,eleven words were discourse particles, or theywere used as discourse markers.
In the literature,there is still no consistent definition for discoursemarkers (Hirschberg and Litman 1993).Discourse markers can be defined as follows:elements whose original semantic meaning tendsto decrease and their use in spoken discoursebecomes more pragmatic and indicative ofdiscourse structuring are discourse markers.
Inaddition to several adverbs and determiners,discourse particles can also be categorized asdiscourse markers.
They are very often observedin Mandarin spoken conversations as mentionedin Tseng (2001) and Clancy et al (1996).In Tseng (2001), each subject used on average1.6 discourse particles per turn.
This result leadsto the consideration, if there is a need to addspecial categories for discourse particles orparticle-like words for spoken Mandarin.Discourse particles were found to have differentand specific discourse use in conversation.Namely, there exist discourse particles appearingpreferably in turn-beginning position and someother discourse particles may exclusively markthe location of repairs.
Regarding the small sizeof data used in Tseng (2001), it is one of thereasons why the ongoing project is necessary forresearch of Mandarin spontaneous conversations.1.3 Taking Turns in DialoguesIn spontaneous conversation, turn-taking usuallytakes place arbitrarily to the extent that everyindividual interacts differently with the othersunder different circumstances.
Thus, how toannotate overlapping sequences is one of theessential tasks in developing annotation systems.In Mandarin conversation, there are wordspreferably used in turn-initial position (Tseng2001, Chui 2000).
They normally have their owndiscourse-related pragmatic function associatedwith their positioning in utterances.
Similarly,how to mark up turn-initial positions is alsodirectly connected with the annotationconvention.1.4 Prosody in Spoken MandarinLexical tones are typically characteristic ofspoken Mandarin.
The interaction of lexical tonesand the other prosodic means such as stress andintonation are related to a number of researchissues, particularly in conversation.
Falling tonesmay not show falling tendency anymore, whenthe associated words are used for specificdiscourse functions such as for indicatinghesitation or the beginning of a turn (Tseng2001).2 Mandarin Conversational Dialogue CorpusThis section deals with the design and collectionof a large Mandarin dialogue corpus currentlyproduced in Academia Sinica.2.1 Design and MethodologyThe long-term goal of this project is to collectdomain-independent Mandarin spoken dialogues.They are daily conversations with specific topicsgiven for each stage of recording.
Since thedesign of scenario aims to collect natural andspontaneous conversations, limitations on thetopics are reduced to a minimum.
Different fromtask-oriented dialogues such as air-planning orinstruction-construction tasks (Kowtko and Price1989, Sagerer et al 1994), subjects participatingin this project were told to converse as naturallyas possible.
The scenario is similar to a situationwhere two strangers meet at the first time, try tofind common topics interested by both of themand have a chat.Figure 1: Corpus Domain Designtopic 1                                      WHAT-WHEREtopic 2topic 3                                       WHAT-WHENtopic 5        topic 4          WHAT-WHOWHERE-HOWWHAT-WHYAs illustrated in Figure 1, this stage of corpuscollection consists of WHAT-WHEREcomponent.
The subjects have to determine onWHAT topic they?d like to talk.
Usually, they donot stick to only one topic.
Sometime inconversation, the participants asked each otherWHERE the events mentioned in theirconversation happened or WHERE they couldtake part in the events.
There are two reasons forthis design.
First, we will extend the localdomains to WHAT-WHEN, WHAT-WHO,WHERE-HOW as well as WHAT-WHYcombinations in the next five years to coverimportant dialogue components used for dailytalks in Taiwan.
This aims to archive the use ofcontemporary spoken Mandarin from varieddaily-life perspectives.
Second, casualconversations usually do not require correctnessof information.
To make sure that we will obtainat least some ?seriously spoken?
materials, thesubjects should interact with attention to fulfil theWHERE task, namely the route-asking androute-describing task.2.2 Subjects and Instructions60, 23 male and 37 female, Taipei residents ofTaipei City who volunteered to participate in theproject were recorded in pairs.
Age ranges from16 to 45.
Subjects did not know each other andtheir task was to introduce themselves first.
Thenthey chose topics from those given on theinstruction sheet or they were also free ofchoosing any other not-listed topics to talk about.In addition, they asked some questions aboutroutes within conversation.
The topics given tothe subjects are family, work, shopping, food,travelling, politics and economics.
Both subjectscan be information-acquirer or information-giver.However, they were told that the person whoasked route questions had to make sure that s/hehas completely understood the described routes.2.3 RecordingThe dialogues were recorded by a SONYTCD-D10 Pro II DAT tape recorder withAudio-Technica ATM-33a handheld/standcardioid condenser microphones at a samplingrate of 48 kHz.
Each subject was recorded on aseparate channel on a DAT tape.
There was notime constraint given in advance.
Once thesubjects completed their task and wished to endthe conversation, the recording was stopped.Total length of corpus is about 25 hoursrecording.3 An Extensible Transcription Tool3.1 Functional ConsiderationsThis section discusses three principles forconstructing word-based database for Mandarindialogues from audio data to lexical database.Three functions have to be included in atranscription system, either directly or potentially:1) connecting the tasks of transcribing,annotating and labelling of sound data, 2) beingable to deal with overlapping turns and 3) makingavailable possible tiers for later time-alignment.There are three working levels for processingspoken data: transcribe, annotate and label.
First,transcription is the transliteration of audio data.Normally, it is verbatim transcription in plain textform.
A transcription tool has exclusively beendeveloped for broadcast spoken data, namedTranscriber (Barras et al 2001).
Audio data canbe nicely combined with the other information.However, it lacks flexible possibility for definingnew annotation tags.
It is especially difficult touse Transcriber to transcribe Mandarinconversations because of the written system ofMandarin.
For the understanding of content andfor the completeness of written system, Chinesecharacters are as representative and important asLatin transcriptions.Secondly, to annotate spoken data is to addlinguistic explanations to the plain transcript torepresent linguistic structures at selected levels.And lastly, to label sound data is to temporallyalign transcript texts with speech signals.
Thetool we develop for our corpus collection aims totranscribe and annotate the speech data as well asto build potential temporal tiers for futurelabelling work.
Traditional annotations of spokendata orient at turn-structured separation ofutterances or sets of utterances (Sagerer et al1994).
This leads to the followinginconveniences.
The beginning and endingboundaries between utterances are notrepresented, because it is presupposed that thecurrent ending boundary is the beginningboundary of the next unit.
While doing temporalalignment, pauses between utterance units andspeakers may be missing.
From the point of viewof searching mechanism, an annotation systemshould also satisfy the demand on classifyingsequences produced by given speakers orsequences produced in a given time period.
Thus,it will be statistically effective and useful tooutput annotated transcription data in a databaseformat.3.2 TransListRecorded dialogues are currently beingtranscribed by using a computer-aided programTransList, specifically developed for transcribingMandarin conversations.
The interface isillustrated in Figure 2.
Input contents includelocation of sound file, subject, start and end timesof the transcribed segment in the correspondentsound file, the person who transcribes thesegment.
The actual transcription is done twofold:in characters and in Pinyin.Figure 2: TransListTag list can be flexibly extended to annotatedifferent phenomena any time while doing thetranscription.
Each transcribed segment isreferred to its original sound file.
However, adirect connection to processing audio files is notavailable yet.
Regarding the output format ofTransList, two variations are currently in use.One is conversation-typed format.
In other words,all sound files split from one conversation forman independent text file.
In order of time andsubject, the program outputs a turn-orientedformat, as illustrated in the next section.
Moreimportant is the second output format.
Alltranscribed segments belonging to oneconversation will be listed in a database, havingthe following columns: characters, pinyin, soundfile and all added tags.
Words marked up bydifferent tags will all have the values of addedtags as their attribute in the database.
By doingthis, we plan to do word segmentation andtagging for spoken Mandarin.
An automatic wordsegmentation and tagging system is currentlyavailable for written Mandarin (Chen et al 1996).We intend to test this program for spontaneousMandarin.
By outputting the transcription indatabase format, we will make the continuingdata processing and searching more effective.3.3 An Output ExampleThis section gives an example produced byTransList.<A 1 6473> cong shili yao dao shili meishuguan dehuawomen jiushi keyi zhiyao ni en jiushi cong women xuexiaoyeshi yiyang da ersanliu zui fangbian de a </A 1 16200><B 116230> mhm </B 1 16380><A 2 16530> ranhou da daoyeshi dao gongguan huan danshuixian ranhou ni zhiyao zuodao dagai yuanshanzhan1</A 2 22230>In the above example, the brackets <> and </>mark up the beginning and ending boundaries ofa speaker production sequence.
A and B stand forspeakers.
Turns are not explicitly separated, butmarked up in the annotation.
Numbers after thespeaker abbreviations indicate numbers ofproduction sequences by the speaker.
Thus,whether it is a turn-taking or it is a overlappingcan be evaluated by means of the third parametertime (msec).
With respect to tags added into thetranscribed segments, it is optional to include or1 <A 1 6473> from city want go city gallery in the case wejust can just you en just from our school too is same take 236most convenient PRT a </A 1 16200> <B 1 16230> mhm</B 1 16380> <A 2 16530> afterwards take to too toGongguan change Danshui-Line afterwards you just take toapproximately Yuanshan-Station </A 2 22230>to exclude the annotation tags.
As shown inFigure 2, these can be non-speech sounds, repairsor discourse markers (Heeman and Allen 1999).ConclusionThis paper discussed general issues on Mandarinspoken dialogues and analysed components of anew developed transcription and annotation toolfor spoken Mandarin.ReferencesBarras, C. et al (2001) Transcriber: Development andUse of a Tool for Assisting Speech CorporaProduction.
Speech Communication.
33.
Pp.
5-22.Chen, K.-J.
et al (1996) SINICA CORPUS: DesignMethodology for Balanced Corpora.
PACLIC 11.Pp.167-176.Chui, K.-W. (2000) Ritualization in EvolvingPragmatic Functions: A Case Study of DUI.
InProc.
of the 7th International Symposium onChinese Language and Linguistics.
Pp.
177-192.Clancy, P. et al (1996) The Conversational Use ofReactive Tokens in English, Japanese andMandarin.
Journal of Pragmatics.
Pp.
355-387.Gibbon, D., Moore, R. and Winski, R. (1997)Handbook of Standards and Resources for SpokenLanguage Systems.
Mouton de Gruyter.Heeman, P. and Allen, J.
(1999) Speech Repairs,Intonational Phrases and Discourse Markers:Modelling Speakers?
Utterances in SpokenDialogue.
Computational Linguistics, 25/4.
Pp.527-571.Hirschberg, J. and Litman, D. (1993) EmpiricalStudies on the Disambiguation of Cue Phrases.Computational Linguistics, 19(3), pp.
501-530.Kowtko, J. C. and Price, P.J.
(1989) Data Collectionand Analysis in the Air Planning Domain.
In Proc.of the DARPA Speech and Natural LanguageWorkshop.
Pp.
119-125.Sagerer G. and Eikmeyer H. and Rickheit G. (1994)?Wir bauen jetzt ein Flugzeug?
: Konstruieren imDialog.
Arbeitsmaterialien, Technical Report.SFB360 ?Situierte K?nstliche Kommunikation.University of Bielefeld, Germany.Tseng, S.-C. (2001) Highlighting Utterances inChinese Spoken Discourse.
In Language,Information and Computation.
PACLIC 15.
Pp.163-174.
