An archive for all of Europe: the TRACTOR initiativeMartin WynneCentre for Corpus Linguistics,Department of English,University of Birmingham,BirminghamUK ?
B15 2TTmartin@clg.bham.ac.ukAbstractTRACTOR is the TELRI ResearchArchive of Computational Tools andResources.
It features monolingual,bilingual, and multilingual corporaand lexicons in a wide variety oflanguages, as well as tools forlanguage processing.
TRACTOR is akey element of TELRI II, a pan-European alliance of focal nationallanguage technology institutions withthe emphasis on Central and EasternEuropean and NIS countries.TRACTOR hopes to complementother archives by providing a servicefor languages and users who arecurrently under-represented inexisting archives.
TRACTOR's uniquestrength lies in the amount ofresources provided by centres inCentral and Eastern Europe, and itsrole at the hub of a network ofresource creation, standardisation anddistribution which links the EU andnon-EU European researchcommunities.
The TRACTOR UserCommunity brings together resourceproviders, academic users andindustrial users in an ongoingrelationship, which is designed tofoster the emergence of joint researchprojects in language engineering.The TRACTOR philosophy is toaccept deposits of resources in anyformat, and to distribute them in theform in which they are received (withsmall changes if possible such asadditional documentation, and puttinga browsable version or sample online.
)In addition, certain standards arerecommended and help is offered toproviders who wish to make theirresources conformant with thestandards.
This lack of standardisationis not simply a pragmatic measure inthe face of problems of heterogeneity,but is based on a profound scepticismtowards current resourcestandardisation practice.In the future, TRACTOR aims tobuild up particularly parallel corporaand tools for processing andextracting meaning from suchresources.1 What is TRACTOR?TRACTOR (www.tractor.de) is the TELRIResearch Archive of Computational Tools andResources.
It features monolingual, bilingual,and multilingual corpora and lexicons in a widevariety of languages, currently includingBelarus, Bulgarian, Cornish, Croatian, Czech,Dutch, English, Estonian, French, German,Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian,Romanian, Russian, Serbian, Slovenian,Swedish, Turkish, Ukrainian and Uzbek.TRACTOR is also building up a portfolio oftools for language processing.
While the originalaim was to pool the resources of TELRIpartners, TRACTOR also serves otherinstitutions by making their resources and toolsavailable for the wider community.
The bordersof the TRACTOR User Community now stretchbeyond Europe, with members in Africa, Asia,and America.1.1 What is TELRI?TRACTOR is a key element of TELRI II.
TheEC Concerted Action TELRI II is a pan-European alliance of currently 28 focal nationallanguage technology institutions with theemphasis on Central and Eastern European andNIS countries.TELRI II?s primary objectives are:?
To strengthen the pan-Europeaninfrastructure for the multilinguallanguage research and developmentcommunity;?
To collect, promote, and make availablemonolingual and multilingual languageresources and tools for the extraction oflanguage data and linguistic knowledge;?
To offer a customized comprehensiveservice to academic and industrial users;?
To prepare and organize research anddevelopment projects focusing ontranslation aids, multilingual authoringsystems, and information retrieval;?
To provide a forum where experts fromacademia and industry share and assesstools and resources, assess software,evaluate new trends, investigatealternative approaches, and engage injoint activities;?
To make available the expertise of itspartner institutions to the researchcommunity, to the public, and tolanguage industry.TELRI II implements these objectives in thefollowing activities:?
Networking: This work packageincludes liaising with relatedinfrastructure activities, centres, andinstitutions, promoting TELRI activities(newsletter, webpage, TELRI list), andstrengthening the permanentinfrastructure of the TELRI Association.?
TELRI Seminars: The series ofsuccessful TELRI seminars continueswith annual seminars in CEE/NIScountries, this year to be held inBulgaria.?
TRACTOR Service: This work packagecomprises promotion, support, andavailability of customized service to theTRACTOR User Community.?
TRACTOR Tools and Resources: Thiswork package focuses on the acquisitionof attractive tools and resources forTRACTOR, the TELRI ResearchArchive of Computational Tools andResources.?
Organizing Joint Research: TELRIpartners will prepare European R&Dprojects with strong industrialinvolvement focusing on multilinguallanguage and terminology issues.2 TRACTOR?s RoleTRACTOR is not the only language resourcearchive, as participants in this workshop are wellaware.
It does not aim to become the only focalpoint for language resource distribution on theweb.
Rather it hopes to complement otherarchives by providing a service for languagesand users who are currently under-represented inexisting archives.
TRACTOR's unique strengthlies in the amount of resources provided bycentres in Central and Eastern Europe, and itsrole at the hub of a network of resource creation,standardisation and distribution which links theEU and non-EU European researchcommunities.
The TRACTOR User Communitybrings together resource providers, academicusers and industrial users in an ongoingrelationship, which is designed to foster theemergence of joint research projects in languageengineering.The resources are in many languages, withseveral different character sets and widelydiffering storage and markup conventions, andvariable degrees of documentation, which is alsoin various formats.
This raises particularchallenges in terms of standardisation andevaluation of the resources.
Since most of theresources have been collected over a period ofseveral years, and from countries with varyingdegrees of familiarity with the standards of thewestern European human language technologycommunity standards, they do not in generalconform to one, or in some cases to any,commonly accepted standards of digital storage,character encoding, textual or linguisticannotation.
There are exceptions to this, such asthe highly standardised corpus resourcescollected within the ELAN framework, nowmade available through the TRACTOR archive.The TRACTOR philosophy is to accept depositsof resources in any format, and to distributethem in the form in which they are received(with small changes if possible such asadditional documentation, and putting abrowsable version or sample online.)
Inaddition, certain standards are recommended andhelp is offered to providers who wish to maketheir resources conformant with the standards.This lack of standardisation is not simply apragmatic measure in the face of problems ofheterogeneity.
It is also based on the idea thatstandardisation should not be a barrier tolanguage resource distribution.
Sometimesproviders of resources do not have the resourcesor expertise to adapt them to strict standards.
Wealso recognise that the resource providers andusers do not have requirements in commonwhich can easily be translated into standards.Highly standardised resources built according tocarefully crafted and strict criteria, and intendedto be of commercial value such as EuroWordnet,the SIMPLE ontology, the ELAN network havemore resources and attention paid to the designthan the quality or usefulness of the knowledgewhich they contain.
Furthermore, they are oftentoo narrow in their applicability and in manycases they are simply not being used.TRACTOR aims to produce a synergy betweenacademic and industrial researchers whereby theknowledge and resources can be shared anddeveloped at a pre-competitive stage.
Suchcollaborations can then develop on a commercialbasis when on terms suitable for all parties.
Thisis thought to be a more productive approach thanthe attempting to identify global, common needsand then to deliver large, valuable resources ofgeneral applicability.As far as documentation of the resources isconcerned, we believe that standardisation isprobably a good idea, and we are looking intoparticipating in the OLAC initiative.3 Practicalities3.1 How does it work?TRACTOR provides ongoing help and supportfor the User Community, a task which chieflyinvolves solving simple queries regarding thenature of the resources on offer, and how todownload them, and referring more complexqueries to experts in the User Community, or inthe wider TELRI network.
Comments andfeedback from users on the service and theresources are encouraged.
The helpdesk tries toput users with research interests in common intouch with each other.Visits to the website and downloads from it arelogged exhaustively, and feedback is given tothe resource providers.3.2 How do you join?Fill in the form athttp://www.tractor.de/docs/user.html andarrange for the Euro 50 annual fee to be paid(details on the form).
There is a special reducedrate of Euro 20 for Central and East Europeancountries outside of the EU, and for NIScountries.If researchers also want to deposit some of yourresources with TRACTOR for distribution, wewill be very pleased to receive them.
In this casethe fee is waived.
Once these formalities arecompleted, we send a user ID and password byemail so that you can access the resources.3.3 What is the TUC?The TUC is the TRACTOR User Community.This is the name given to everyone involved indepositing and accessing resources in thearchive.3.4 Why do we charge a fee?There is a small annual administrative feecharged for joining the TRACTOR UserCommunity.
This is waived in the case ofmembers of the TELRI Association and userswho also deposit resources.The principal reason for doing this is in order toput membership on a formal basis.
To put itbluntly, if researchers have to pay for access,then they usually have to alert their colleaguesand masters to it and persuade them to authorisethe payment.
Also, having paid for something,they are more likely to use it.
The fee isconsiderably less than what users have to pay formore commercially oriented archives such asELRA.TRACTOR needs an active User Community,and we would prefer to have a compact group ofcommitted and active users, to a large number ofpeople who register because it is free, and thentake no active part in the activities.
Having saidthat, we do hope a large number of people andinstitutions join, and membership is notconditional on taking part in any activities!3.5 What sort of resources can Ideposit?Resources are gratefully received for theTRACTOR archive.
We currently aim to buildup the archive with language corpora, lexiconsand software tools for processing language.
Ifyou have something different which would be ofuse to the human language technologycommunity, then we would also be very pleasedto hear from you!3.6 What sorts of resources are there?There are currently corpora, tools, and lexicons.Corpora can be subdivided as generalmonolingual (e.g.
German Parole, Uzbek,Ukrainian, Slovenian), specialist monolingual(the CFRL collection of Russian literature);parallel corpora (the Plato and 1984 corpora).An important recent acquisition for the archiveis the special TRACTOR version of the Qwickcorpus analysis program, which is available tothe TUC with indexed monolingual corpora inmany languages.
This is considered an importantdevelopment as it means that corpora can nowbe delivered ready to analyse and use withoutany further demands on the expertise or softwarewhich the user may or may not have.It is intended to greatly increase the range anddepth of holdings in the TRACTOR archivethroughout 2001, as a key part of the work of theCentre for Corpus Linguistics in the EnglishDepartment at the University of Birmingham.Particular efforts are being made to create andacquire parallel translation corpora, which are ofparticular interest for research purposes formany academic and industrial users ofTRACTOR.TRACTOR is not in competition with otherarchives such as the Oxford Text Archive,ELDA and the Linguistic Data Consortium.TRACTOR is unique in it?s combination of thefollowing features:?
TRACTOR is not just an archive; it is anetwork of researchers with interests inlinguistic resources;?
all resources are available for researchpurposes only and not for commercialexploitation;?
the primary interest of the TRACTORcommunity is working with multilingualresources;?
the strength and focus of TRACTOR is onCentral and Eastern Europe;?
the acquisition philosophy is not to seek toimpose standards of textual markup orlinguistic annotation on resource providers.4 The futureTRACTOR aims to build up particularly parallelcorpora and tools for processing and extractingmeaning from such resources.
Given thecontinuing failure of attempts to build usefulmultilingual software on the basis of conceptualontologies and other artificial intelligenceapproaches, and the failure of translationapproaches on the basis of translationequivalence at the word level, it is the belief ofWolfgang Teubert and other researchers inBirmingham and in the TRACTOR network thatthe most productive way forward now is toextract knowledge about equivalence fromparallel corpora and apply it to automaticmultilingual text processing tasks.This is just one area of interest, and members arefree to develop ideas and resources in amultitude of directions.It is also intended that the User Communitycontinues to grow and become more active, notonly as a group of researchers accessing thearchive, but also as a research network.
