Telling apart temporal locating adverbialsand time-denoting expressionsTelmo M?iaFaculdade de Letras da Universidade de LisboaAlameda da UniversidadeP-1600-214 Lisboa, Portugaltmoia@mail.telepac.ptAbstractThis paper is concerned with theidentification of two semantically closecategories ?
temporal locatingadverbials and time-denotingexpressions.
The dividing line betweenthese categories is difficult to draw,inasmuch as there are several phrasesthat occur with the same surface formin the typical contexts of both of them(e.g.
in adverbial position and as thecomplement of verbs like to date from).These ambivalent phrases includerelatively simple expressions likeyesterday or last week, but also ?
a factthat has gone practically unnoticed inthe literature ?
structurally complexones, like those headed by before, after,when or ago.
In this paper, a uniformsemantic categorisation of thesephrases as mere time-denotingexpressions is advocated and some ofits consequences for the grammaticalsystem are assessed.
The analysispostulates a null locating preposition(with a value close to that of in) in thecontexts where the ambivalent formsoccur adverbially.
A corollary is thepartition of the set of particlestraditionally classified as temporallocating into two sets: the truly locatingones ?
like in, during, since or until ?and those that are mere heads of(structurally complex) time-denotingexpressions ?
like before, after,between, when, ago, or from.1 IntroductionIn this paper, Portuguese and English ?
chosenas examples of the Romance and Germanicfamilies ?
will be the object languages in anattempt to draw a dividing line between twosemantically close subcategories of temporalphrases ?
time-denoting expressions andtemporal locating adverbials (henceforth TDEsand TLAs, respectively).
Nevertheless, theadvocated hypotheses are expected to apply tocomparable expressions in other languages aswell.
The formal framework for analysis will bethe Discourse Representation Theory (DRT).In general informal terms, the differencebetween TDEs and TLAs can be put as follows:the former include (direct or indirect1)representations of intervals, or sets of intervals,while the latter include phrases which locateentities (e.g.
eventualities) on the time axis.Often, the distinction between them isunproblematic:(1) a. Portugal became a Republic [in [1910]].b.
Several epidemics swept throughEurope [during [the 14th century]].In these examples, the expressions within theinner brackets ?
1910, the 14th century ?
areclearly TDEs, while the prepositional phrasesthat contain them as complements ?
in 1910,1Indirect representation of intervals is performed,e.g., by temporal subordinate clauses or situationalNPs, which primarily describe eventualities, but canact as derived TDEs when used as complements oftemporal prepositions ?
cf.
e.g.
Rohrer (1977) andHamann (1989).during the 14th century ?
are TLAs, whichtemporally locate the eventualities representedin the remainder of the clause.Sometimes, however, the dividing linebetween these two categories is unclear.
This isdue namely to the existence of expressions thatcan surface with exactly the same form in thetypical contexts (to be defined below, in section2) of both TDEs and TLAs, hence appearing to beambivalent.
This is the case of relatively simpleexpressions like English now, then, yesterday,and last week, for instance (or their approximatePortuguese counterparts agora, ent?o, ontem,and a semana passada, respectively).
See thefollowing pairs of sentences, where theexpressions in italics occur in a typical contextof a TDE (namely as the complement of since oruntil) in the a sentences, and in a typical contextof a TLA (namely in adverbial position) in b:(2) a. John has been in Paris since yesterday.b.
John left the hospital yesterday.
(3) a.
Until then, John had been happy.b.
Then, John felt very miserable.
(4) a. John has been in Paris since last week.b.
John left for Paris last week.More interestingly, this is also the case ofrelatively more complex expressions, whichinclude a temporal preposition (or prepositional-like particle), such as English before, after,between, when, ago or from (or theirapproximate Portuguese counterparts antes,depois, entre, quando, h?
and de (...a)respectively):(5) a. John has been a clerk since before 1980.b.
John graduated before 1980.
(6) a. John was a clerk until three years ago.b.
John graduated three years ago.This distribution raises a categorisation issuethat I will try to tackle in this paper, namelywhether this kind of apparently ambivalentphrasesshould be regarded as temporal locatingadverbials, as time-denoting expressions or asboth.
My contention here will be that theyshould (all) be taken as mere time-denotingexpressions, i.e.
expressions that denoteintervals, or sets of intervals, but that do not ?just by themselves ?
locate eventualities on thetime axis, therefore requiring the presence of an?
explicit or implicit ?
temporal preposition likein, during, since, until, or the like, when usedadverbially.
Before proceeding to the arguments,let us briefly consider some basic semantic andsyntactic properties of the categories underanalysis.2 Basic semantic and syntacticcharacterisationThe semantic characterisation of TDEs and TLAs,already briefly sketched above, is nextformulated.Time-denoting expressionsrepresentintervals or sets of intervals.
They do not, just bythemselves, locate the eventualities (or otherentities) described in the structures to whichthey apply.
Formally, within a DRT- framework,a given time-denoting expression TDE simplyintroduces a time discourse referent t, togetherwith a condition of the form TDE (t).
TDEs may(but need not) occur as part of a TLA ?
cf.
Paulodied in 1980vs.
1980 was a splendid year.Temporal locating adverbialscontribute amore complex meaning.
More specifically, Iassume that they play two concurrent roles (cf.M?ia 2000a, for details): (i) they define thelocation time of the sentence ?
t ?
out of theinterval represented by the complement TDE ofthe temporal preposition ?
tc ?, i.e.
that state thatsome relation R holds between the twointervals: R (t, tc); for instance, tc may coincidewith t (with e.g.
in- or during-phrases), or setone of its boundaries (with e.g.
since- or until-phrases); (ii) they contribute to defining arelation R?
(e.g.
overlap or inclusion) betweenthe location time t and the located eventuality ev(which is described in the basic sentence) ?
R?
(ev, t).These differences in denotation go, quitenaturally, on a par with differences indistribution.
An obvious one involves the(im)possibility of direct combination witheventuality descriptions.
Being mere designatorsof intervals, or sets of intervals, TDEs ?
as such?
are expected not to combine directly withdescriptions of eventualities, this combinationrequiring the presence of a locating particle,such as during or in.
This clearly tells 1910apart from in 1910, for instance:(7) Portugal became a Republic *(in) 1910.Conversely, other contexts are apparentlyexclusive to TDEs.
In these contexts, temporalexpressions headed by e.g.
in, during, since oruntil cannot (in principle) occur.
Four of suchcontexts are described as follows: (i) argumentsof temporal nominal predicates like period,year, or month ?
cf.
(8a) ?
or of non-temporalpredicates (like terrible or disaster) representingproperties that can be predicated of timestretches ?
cf.
(8b); (ii) arguments of equativebe, in constructions where the other member ofthe equation is an (undisputed) TDE ?
cf.
(8c);(iii) (normally prepositioned) complements oftemporal predicates, like schedule (for), date(from) or date back (to) ?
cf.
(8d-e); (iv)complements of temporal prepositions like sinceor until:?
cf.
(8f):(8) a.
(*In) 1910 was a very tense year inPortugal.b.
(*In) the year 1980 was a disaster to me.c.
(*In) 1910 was the year in whichPortugal became a Republic.d.
The elections are scheduled for (*in)June.e.
This bridge dates from (*in) the 12thcentury.f.
Portugal has been a Republic since(*in) 1910.Many temporal expressions only occur in thetypical contexts of TDEs, and can therefore,rather uncontroversially, be classified as such.Some examples in Portuguese and English are: os?culo XX / the 20th century, os anos 70 / theseventies, o ano de 1910 / the year 1910,Janeiro / January, 11 de Outubro / October 11,as tr?s horas / three o?
clock, or o meio-dia /noon.
However, as was said above, many otherexpressions may occur, with the same surfaceform, in the typical contexts of both TDEs andTLAs, thus raising the already mentionedcategorisation issue.
Let us now consider theseapparently ambivalent expressions in somedetail.3 Apparently ambivalent time-denoting/ temporal locating expressionsA first group of apparently ambivalent phrases iscomposed of sequences that can freely occurwith or without a temporal locating preposition,without semantic variation, when combined witheventuality descriptions.
Some examples, inPortuguese, are the names of days of the week ?e.g.
s?bado [Saturday] ?
and expressions withthe deictical adjective passado [last], like asemana passada [last week].
See the followingPortuguese sentences (whose parenthesisedelements may or may not be expressed):(9) O museu foi reaberto (em) a semanapassada.
?the museum was reopened (in) theweek past?
[The museum was reopened last week.
](10) O museu estar?
aberto (no) s?bado.
?the museum will-be open (on-the)Saturday?
[The museum will be open on Saturday.
]In these examples, if the parenthesised elementsare omitted, the expressions in italic are used ascomplete TLAs; otherwise (i.e.
if the prepositionem is explicit), they are used as mere TDEs (as is,for that matter, the case if they are preceded byan explicit preposition like desde [since]).In general, the (non-)mandatory character ofthe preposition in this type of constructionsseems to be syntactically or lexicallydetermined, varying from language to languagefor parallel expressions.
Note, for instance, thatthe grammatical English equivalent of (9) isobligatorily non-prepositioned, while thecounterpart of (10) is prepositioned.A second (larger) group of apparentlyambivalent phrases includes expressions thatsystematically occur without any (explicit)temporal locating particle in adverbial position.English expressions like last week, orreferentially dependent English and Portugueseadverbs like today / hoje, yesterday / ontem,tomorrow / amanh?, now / agora, and then /ent?o belong in this group.
Accordingly, themain difference with respect to the first one(mentioned above) is the ungrammaticality ofthe use of a temporal preposition like English inor Portuguese em in sentences where theseexpressions occur adverbially:(11) a. Ana got a new job (*in) yesterday.b.
A Ana arranjou um novo emprego(*em) ontem.
(12) a. Ana is in his office (*in/at) now.b.
A Ana est?
no escrit?rio (*em) agora.This contrasts with the possibility of using thesame expressions as complements of othertemporal prepositions, like English since oruntil, and their Portuguese counterparts desdeand at?
:(13) a. Ana has been working in this companysince yesterday.b.
A Ana trabalha nesta empresa desdeontem.
(14) a. Ana was in her office until now.b.
A Ana esteve no escrit?rio at?
agora.The non-prepositioned adverbial casesillustrated in sentences (9)-(12) above aretreated by many authors ?
regarding English andother languages ?
as involving a null prepositionwith a value close to that of in (or on or at,depending on the complement).
Examples areAsher et al (1995: 109) for the French adverbialhier [yesterday], and Kamp and Reyle (1993),for the English adverbials with last: ?from asemantic viewpoint last Sunday functions ratherlike a prepositional phrase, with an emptypreposition whose semantic contribution is thesame as that of on in on Sunday.
This is what weassume the syntax of the adverb last Sunday tobe?
(p. 623).At this point, it must be stressed that, underthis ?null preposition analysis?, the expressionsat stake are not ambivalent: they are mere time-denoting phrases in all the contexts in whichthey occur.
The property that distinguishes themfrom other ?canonical?
TDEs (like 1910) is thefact that they can ?
or must ?
occur with a nulllocating preposition, when they are usedadverbially.I will embrace this analysis and will,furthermore, advocate ?
departing in this casefrom the analyses currently adopted in thesemantic literature ?
that several otherexpressions that are normally treated as?canonical?
TLAs should be put on a par withthose just mentioned, i.e.
they should also betreated as mere time-denoting expressions thatin adverbial contexts occur with a nulllocating preposition.
These are namely thestructurally complex expressions headed by theEnglish particles before, after, between, when,ago, or from (and possibly others, similar tothem), and their counterparts in Portuguese, andpossibly other languages (cf.
Table 1 below).Notice that these complex expressionsalready contain an explicit temporal particle(prepositional or similar).
Thus, when occurringin adverbial position with no other explicitpreposition, I will postulate the existence of asecond invisible temporal particle:(15) a. John graduated ?in before 1980.b.
John graduated ?in/at three years ago.I think that at least four groups of thesestructurally complex expressions ?
listed below?
can be distinguished (attending to the processby which they define time intervals).
Thequestion of how, precisely, intervals are definedvia these complex expressions, i.e.
of whatspecific properties these intervals have, will beaddressed only superficially, since this questionis far too complex to be tackled within the limitsof this paper.
In the sets of sentences givenbelow, examples a illustrate the occurrence ofthe italicised expressions in a characteristiccontext of a TLA, and examples b theiroccurrence in a characteristic context of a TDE.I.
Phrases expressing anteriority or posteriority,in particular those headed by English before andafter, and Portuguese antes and depois:(16) a. Ana got married after 1980.a?.
A Ana casou depois de 1980.b.
Ana worked in this company until after1980.b?.
A Ana trabalhou nesta empresa at?depois de 1980.These expressions define intervals (t) byexplicitly defining one of their boundaries (t1) ?cf.
M?ia (1998):(17) a. before COMPL: [COMPL (t1)] ?
[t ??
t1]b. after COMPL: [COMPL (t1)] ?
[t1 ??
t]II.
Phrases with English between, andPortuguese entre:(18) a. Europe was at war between 1914 and1918.a?.
A Europa esteve em guerra entre 1914 e1918.b.
This painting dates from between 1914and 1918.b?.
Este quadro data de entre 1914 e 1918.These expressions define intervals (t) byexplicitly defining both their boundaries (t1 andt2):(19) a. between COMPL1 and COMPL2:[COMPL1(t1)] ?
[COMPL2(t2)] ?
[beg (t) ?
t1] ?
[end (t) ?
t2]b. between COMPL2: [COMPL(T)] ?
[T = t1 ?
t2] ?
[beg (t) ?
t1] ?
[end (t) ?
t2]III.
Phrases with English when, and Portuguesequando:(20) a.
The president hired a new secretarywhen he returned from Brazil.a?.
O presidente contratou uma secret?rianova quando regressou do Brasil.b.
The president scheduled a meeting forwhen he returns from Brazil.b?.
O presidente marcou uma reuni?o paraquando regressar do Brasil.These expressions define intervals (t) via one ofa series of possible relations R with theeventuality expressed in the sentence theyinclude (ev)3:(21) when COMPL: [COMPL: ev] ?
[t = R (ev)]IV.
Phrases like English X ago, X from COMPL,X before/after COMPL, and Portuguese h?
X, deCOMPL a X, X antes/depois (de) COMPL  (whereX is either a predicate of amounts of time ?
liketwo hours ?
or a quantified predicate of times, oreventualities, like three weekends, or threeclasses):(22) a. Ana will get married two months fromnow.a?.
A Ana vai casar daqui a dois meses.b.
The law will be in force until two yearsfrom now.b?.
A lei estar?
em vigor at?
daqui a doisanos.These expressions define intervals (t) bymeasuring time, or counting temporally orderedentities, from anchor points (Apt)4.
Twoexamples of the relevant logic conditions(expressed in the language of DRT), for casesinvolving time measurement, are as follows:2(19b) applies to structures with plural complements,like between the two world wars.3t may either be the ?loc?
(in the sense of Kamp andReyle, 1993) of ev, its resultant state, or itspreparatory phase, for instance; in more complexcases, an eventuality derived from ev by Aktionsartshift may be involved (cf.
e.g.
Moens, 1987 andCarecho, 1996).
These complex issues are obviouslybeyond the scope of this paper.4Cf.
M?ia (2000a [chapter 7] and 2000b) for a morethorough analysis of these expressions.
(23) a. COMPL ago: [COMPL (mt)] ?
[dur (t1) = mt] ?
[beg (t1) ?
t]5 ?
[end (t1) = Apt]b. X-TIME before COMPL: [X-TIME (mt)],[COMPL (Apt)] ?
[dur (t1) = mt] ?
[beg (t1) ?
t] ?
[end (t1) = Apt]I. temporal locating particlesPortuguese Englishem, a in, on, atdurante during, for6enquanto while, as long asao longo de throughoutdesde, a partir de since, fromat?
until, byde...at?
/ a from...until / toII.
heads of (structurally complex)time-denoting expressionsPortuguese Englishantes beforedepois afterentre betweenquando whenhaver agode...a7 fromX-TIME antes X-TIME beforeX-TIME depois X-TIME afterTable 1.
Partition of the set of particlestraditionally classified as temporal locatingIt must be stressed that by analysing all thesefour groups of expressions as mere TDEs, the set5The condition [beg (t1) ?
t] must be read as: ?theinterval t (which is the interval denoted by theexpression as a whole) is an interval surrounding (upto a contextually dependent limit) the beginningof t1?.
This definition is motivated by the fact thatthese phrases do not behave as punctual, but rather asextended ones (cf.
M?ia, 2000a).6I take for to be a temporal locating preposition instructures like for the last two months or for thosetwo months (cf.
M?ia, 2000a [chapter 5]).7The discontinuous particle de...a can form a TLA ?e.g.
de 1980 a 1985 (from 1980 to 1985) ?
or a TDE ?e.g.
daqui a cinco dias (five days from now).of temporal particles that are traditionallyclassified as temporal locating is partitioned intotwo main groups, illustrated in Table 1.So far, the analysis under discussion wasessentially motivated by the multiple categorialbehaviour of the expressions at stake, namelytheir ability to appear in the contexts of bothTLAs and TDEs.
The point to stress is that thisanalysis provides a uniform treatment of suchphrases, avoiding a double categorisation, and,as a consequence, (arguably) conferring astronger generalisation power to the system.
Inthe next section, I will briefly show thatindependent motivation exists for the twocomponents of the advocated analysis: (i) theassignment of the categorial-denotational statusof TDEs to the relevant expressions; (ii) thepostulation of a higher invisible temporallocating preposition.4 Further motivation for the analysisAs for the assignment of the categorial-denotational status of TDEs to the relevantexpressions, several arguments are supplied inM?ia (1998) to support a time-denoting analysisof before- and after-phrases which can beadapted, in a broader perspective, to the groupof expressions under analysis.
Among thesearguments, I underline the possibility ofanaphoric reference to the intervals denoted (inadverbial or non-adverbial contexts)8:(24) a.
Every student who graduated [beforethe stock market crashed]t is presentlyemployed.
It was not so difficult to geta job [then]tb.
This painting does not date from [before1300]t. There were no paintings like this[then]t / at [that time]t / in [that period] tAs for the null locating preposition, thefollowing facts can be taken as favourablearguments:i.
The systematic optionality of the postulatedlocating preposition with a subgroup of8Other advantages of the proposed analysis seemmore specific to the before- and after- type ofphrases (cf.
M?ia 1998, where I argue for an analysisin which these phrases, when occurring adverbially,do not directly assert anteriority or posteriority, butrather  inclusion ?
marked by null in ?
in an intervaldefined along the lines of (17)).ambivalent expressions ?
e.g.
Portugueses?bado or a semana passada (cf.
(9)-(10),repeated below):(25) a. O museu esteve encerrado (em) asemana passada.b.
O museu estar?
aberto (no) s?bado.ii.
The (explicit) presence of the postulatedpreposition in comparable forms of otherlanguage variants, or of other languages ?
cf.e.g.
em antes (literally, in before), in certainNorthern Portuguese dialects, or in between, inEnglish:(26) a.
?...que as espigas, em antes de ir para ocanastro, tinham de se p?r a secar?
(corpus of oral discourse from the Northof Portugal)b. Berlin was well known for its goodliving in between the two world wars.
(Collins Cobuild English Dictionary)iii.
The (explicit) presence of the postulatedpreposition before semantically equivalentstructures with the predicate period:(27) a.
That happened ?in [before Christmas].b.
That happened in [the period beforeChristmas].
(28) a. Ana was travelling ?in [between Juneand October].b.
Ana was travelling in [the periodbetween June and October]Marginally, but quite symptomatically, itmust be emphasised that the presence of nullprepositions seems to be motivated also withinother temporal subsystems, like duration andtemporal quantification:(29) a. Ana only slept  ?for about half an hour.b.
Ana went to Paris ?in every week.(cf.
e.g.
Rothstein, 1995)In addition to the arguments alreadypresented, the following (crucial) one can beadduced: the advocated analysis correctlypredicts the possibility of recursion of theparticles treated as heads of complex TDEsand the impossibility of recursion of the truetemporal locating particles (given their role indefining the ?
unique ?
location time of thesentence).
Compare the grammaticality ofexpressions like those in (30) with theungrammaticality of e.g.
those in (31):(30) a. before two months agoa?.
antes de h?
dois mesesb.
(in the period) between two years agoand six months agob?.
(no per?odo) entre h?
dois anos e h?
seismesesc.
between two months before the start ofthe war and the second week of thefightingc?.
entre dois meses antes do come?o daguerra e a segunda semana de combatesd.
More than three months elapsed betweenwhen the bridge was built and when thefirst vehicles crossed it.d?.
Passaram-se mais de tr?s meses entrequando a ponte foi constru?da e quandoos primeiros autom?veis a cruzaram.
(31) *since in, *in since, *until throughoutObviously, the occurrence of more than one ofthese heads in a sequence is limited by e.g.
(i) specific properties of the connectives, whichprevent, for example, in normal circumstances,the sequences before after, or in X-TIME ago,and (ii) discourse simplicity, which imposes theavoidance of some theoretically possible formsif simpler equivalent ones are available.Note still that, given the appropriateconditions, these rather complex expressionsmay occur as the complement of an explicittemporal locating preposition, thus forming aparticularly complex TLA:(32) A: I will give up smoking two weeks fromnow.B: I don?t believe you.
You will go onsmoking until long after {that / ?twoweeks from now}.5 ConclusionBy analysing all the phrases discussed in thispaper as mere TDEs, I depart from the usualpicture of time adverbials in the literature(where the expressions at stake are oftenincluded in the class of frame, or locating,adverbials ?
cf.
e.g.
Bennett and Partee, 1978, orKamp and Reyle, 1993 ?
or are grouped intodifferent subclasses ?
cf.
e.g.
Quirk et al 1985,or Smith, 1991).
Given the limits of this text, itis not possible to go through the previouslyproposed categorisations here (cf.
M?ia, 2000a,for a brief analysis of some of them).
Suffice itto say that those categorisations do not seem toaccount for the type of differences focussed onin this paper, unless a double-category approachis assumed9.The dividing line between temporal locatingadverbials and time-denoting expressions Ipropose is drawn (for the structurally complexcases) according to the particle that heads them,as expressed in Table 1.
This dividing linecorresponds with significant distributionaldifferences exhibited by the particles at stake.Quite interestingly, a similar partition seemsalso pertinent within the domain of spatialadverbials.
Apparently, (at least some of) thearguments used to advocate a time-denotingstatus for e.g.
before-phrases can also be used toclaim a comparable (space-denoting) status forexpressions like under the table, which, in somelanguages, occur with an explicit spatial locatingpreposition ?
?AT under the table?
(Chinese)10.Spatial homonyms of temporal locatingprepositions ?
e.g.
English in, on, at,through(out), from...to, or Portuguese em,atrav?s, desde, a partir de, at?, de...a ?
clearlyqualify as spatial locating particles.
Spatialprepositions like, for example, English between,behind, and near and their Portuguesecounterparts entre, tr?s, and perto possiblyqualify as heads of (structurally complex)space-denoting expressions ?
cf.
theiroccurrence in argumental position in thefollowing Portuguese example:(33) A Ana deslocou o sof?
para {entre asduas portas / tr?s da porta / perto dajanela}.
?the Ana moved the sofa to {betweenthe two doors / behind of-the door / nearof-the window}?AcknowledgementsI thank Jo?o Peres for insightful comments onprevious versions of this paper.9My primary concern is the distinction betweenTDEs and TLAs, based on the (generic) syntactic andsemantic differences considered in this paper.Obviously, this does not preclude furthersubcategorisation of the expressions at stake (or ofsome of them), based on other syntactic or semanticproperties (cf.
e.g.
the categorisations of Borillo,1983, which pays heed to anaphoric properties, orAsher et al, 1995).10James Higginbotham, p.c.ReferencesASHER, Nicholas, Michel Aurnague, MyriamBras and Laure Vieu.
1995.
?Spatial,Temporal and Spatio-Temporal LocatingAdverbials in Discourse?.
In Pascal Amsili,Mario Borillo and Laure Vieu (eds.
),Worshop Notes of the 5th InternationalWorkshop on Time, Space and MovementTSM?95: 101-119.BENNETT, Michael and Barbara Partee.
1978.Toward the Logic of Tense and Aspect inEnglish.
Indiana University Linguistics Club,Bloomington.
(revision of a 1972manuscript)BORILLO, Andr?e.
1983.
?Les Adverbes deReference Temporelle dans la Phrase et dansle Texte?.
DRLAV Revue de Linguistique, 29:109-131.CARECHO, Judite.
1996.
Sobre a Sem?nticadas Constru?
?es com quando.
Master?sThesis.
Faculdade de Letras da Universidadede Lisboa.HAMANN, Cornelia.
1989.
?English TemporalClauses in a Reference Frame Model?.
InAlfred Schopf (ed.
), Essays on Tensing inEnglish, vol.
II: Time, Text and Modality.Max Niemeyer Verlag, T?bingen.
31-154.KAMP, Hans and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
FromDiscourse to Logic.
Introduction toModeltheoretic Semantics of NaturalLanguage, Formal Logic and DiscourseRepresentation Theory.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.MOENS, Marc.
1987.
Tense, Aspect andTemporal Reference.
Ph.D.Thesis.
Universityof Edinburgh.M?IA, Telmo.
1998.
?On the Semantics ofTemporal Operators Expressing Anteriorityand Posteriority?
(paper presented at theconference The Syntax and Semantics ofTense and Mood Selection, University ofBergamo, Italy, July 1998; to be publishedby Cambridge University Press).M?IA, Telmo.
2000a.
Identifying andComputing Temporal Locating Adverbialswith a Particular Focus on Portuguese andEnglish.
Ph.D Thesis.
Universidade deLisboa.M?IA, Telmo.
2000b.
?On TemporalConstructions Involving Measurement andCounting from Anchor Points ?
Semanticand Pragmatic Issues?
(paper presented at theSecond International Conference inContrastive Semantics and Pragmatics,University of Cambridge, England,September 2000; to be published in theproceedings).QUIRK, Randolph et al 1985.
A ComprehensiveGrammar of the English Language.Longman, London.ROHRER, Christian.
1977.
?How to DefineTemporal Conjunctions?.
LinguisticheBerichte, 51.ROTHSTEIN, Susan.
1995.
?AdverbialQuantification over Events?.
NaturalLanguage Semantics, 3: 1-31.SMITH, Carlota.
1991.
The Parameter ofAspect.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.
