HOW TO INTEGRATE LINGUISTIC INFORMATIONIN FILES AND GENERATEFEEDBACK FOR GRAMMAR ERRORSRodolfo Delmonte, Luminita Chiran, Ciprian BacaluDipartimento di Scienze del LinguaggioCa' Garzoni-Moro, San Marco 3417Universit?
"Ca Foscari"30124 - VENEZIATel.
39-41-2578464/52/19 - Fax.
39-41-5287683E-mail: delmont@unive.it - website: byron.cgm.unive.itAbstractWe present three applications which sharesome of their linguistic processor.
The firstapplication ?FILES?
?
Fully IntegratedLinguistic Environment for Syntactic andFunctional Annotation - is a fully integratedlinguistic environment for syntactic andfunctional annotation of corpora currentlybeing used for the Italian Treebank.
Thesecond application is a shallow parser ?
thesame used in FILES ?
which has beenendowed with a feedback module in order toinform students about their grammaticalmistakes, if any, in German.
Finally an LFG-based multilingual parser simulating parsingstrategies with ambiguous sentences.
Weshall present the three applications in thatsequence.1.
FILESFILES has been used to annotate a number ofcorpora of Italian within the National Projectcurrently still work in progress.
Input to FILES isthe output of our linguistic modules for theautomatic analysis of Italian, a tokenizer, amorphological analyser, a tagger equipped with astatistic and syntactic disambiguator and finally ashallow parser.
All these separate modulescontribute part of the input for the system which isthen used by human annotators to operate atsyntactic level on constituent structure, or atfunction level on head-features functionalrepresentation.
We don?t have here space todescribe the linguistic processors ?
but see [8, 9,10, 11, 12].
As to tag disambiguation, this iscarried out in a semi-automatic manner by thehuman annotator, on the basis of the automaticredundant morphological tagger.
Thedisambiguator takes each token and in case ofambiguity it alerts the annotator to decide which isthe tag to choose: the annotator is presented withthe best candidate computed on the basis both ofsyntactic and statistical information.
Low levelrepresentations are integrated in a relationaldatabase and shown in the FILES environmentwhich is an intelligent browser allowing theannotation to operate changes and create XMLoutput automatically for each file.
Here below is asnapshot of the six relational databases where allpreviously analysed linguistic material has beeninputted.
It contains tokens, lemmata, POStagging, empty categories, sentences containingeach token, tokens regarded as heads asseparated from tokens regarded as features andverb subacategorization list.Fig.1 Relational databases to be used as input for theSyntactic and Functional AnnotationAn interesting part of the browser is theavailability of subcategorization frames for verbs:these are expressed in a compact format whichare intended to help the annotator in the mostdifficult task, i.e.
that of deciding whether a givenconstituent head must be interpreted as either anargument or an adjunct; and in case it is anargument, whether it should be interpreted aspredicative or ?open?
in LFG terms, or else asnon-predicative or ?close?.
The list ofsubcategorization frames contains 17,000 entries.Of course the annotator can add new entrieseither as new lexical items or simply as newsubcategorizations frames, which are encoded inthe current list.
Notable features of the browserare the subdivision into two separate columns ofverbal heads from non verbal ones, whereas theactual sentence highlights all heads verbal and nonverbal in bold.
On the righthand side there is ascrollable list of relations and the possibility tomove from one sentence to another at will.
Finallythe XML button to translate the contents of eachor any number of sentences into xml format.Fig.2 Browser for Functional Annotation withStructural representation2.
GRAMMCHECKThe second application is a Grammar Checker forItalian students of German and English.
The onefor students of English is based on GETARUNSand uses a highly sophisticated grammar which ishowever a completely separated system from theone presented here and requires a lot more spacefor its presentation ?
see [13, 14].
It is availableunder Internet and will be shown as such.The one for students of German on the contrary,is based on the shallow parser of Italian used toproduce the syntactic constituency for theNational Treebank.
The output of the parser is abracketing of the input tagged word sequencewhich is then passed to the higher functionalprocessor.
This is an LFG-based c-structure to f-structure mapping algorithm which has threetasks: the first one is to compute features fromheads; the second one is to compute agreement.The third task is to impose LFG?s grammaticalityprinciples: those of Coherence and Consistency,i.e.
number and type of arguments are constrainedby the lexical form of the governing predicate.The parser is an RTN which has been endowedwith a grammar and a lexicon of German of about8K entries.
The grammar is written in the usualarc/transition nodes formalism, well-known inATNs.
However, the aim of the RTN is that ofproducing a structured output both for wellformedand illformed grammatical sentences of German.To this end, we allowed the grammar to keep partof the rules of Italian at the appropriate structurallevel, though.
Grammar checking is notaccomplished at the constituent structure buildinglevel, but at the f-structure level.2.1 THE SHALLOW PARSERThe task of the Shallow Parser is that of creatingsyntactic structures which are eligible forGrammatical Function assignment.
This task ismade simpler given the fact that the disambiguatorwill associate a net/constituency label to eachdisambiguated tag.
Parsing can then be defined asa Bottom-Up collection of constituents whichcontain either the same label, or which may becontained in/be member of the same net/higherconstituent.
No attachment is performed in orderto avoid being committed to structural decisionswhich might then reveal themselves to be wrong.We prefer to perform some readjustmentoperations after structures have been built ratherthan introducing errors from the start.Readjustment operations are in line with LFGtheoretical framework which assumes that f-structures may be recursively constituted bysubsidiary f-structures, i.e.
by complements oradjuncts of a governing predicate.
So the basictask of the shallow parser is that of buildingshallow structures for each safely recognizableconstituent and then pass this information to thefollowing modules.2.2 Syntactic Readjustment RulesSyntactic structure is derived from shallowstructures by a restricted and simple set ofrewriting operations which are of two categories:deletions, and restructuring.
Here are someexamples of both:a. DeletionDelete structural labels internally with the sameconstituent label that appears at the beginning asin Noun Phrases, whenever a determiner is takenin front of the head noun;b. RestructuringAs explained above, we want to follow a policy ofnoncommittal as to attachment of constituents:nonetheless, there are a number of restructuringoperations which can be safely executed in orderto simplify the output without running the risk oftaking decisions which shall have later to bemodified.Restructuring is executed taking advantage ofagreement information which in languages likeItalian or German, i.e.
in morphologically richlanguages, can be fruitfully used to that aim.
Inparticular, predicative constituents may belong todifferent levels of attachment from the adjacentone.
More Restructuring is done at sentence level,in case the current sentence is a coordinate orsubordinate sentence.3 FROM C-STRUCTURE TO F-STRUCTUREBefore working at the Functional level wecollected 2500 grammatical mistakes taken fromreal student final tests.
We decided to keep traceof the following typical grammatical mistakes:- Lack of Agreement NP internally;- Wrong position of Argument Clitic;- Wrong Subject-Verb Agreement;- Wrong position of finite Verbs both in Main,Subordinate and Dependent clauses;- Wrong case assignment.Example 1.
Heute willst ich mich eine bunteKrawatte umbinden.cp-[savv-[avv-[heute]],vsec-[vsupp-[willst],fvsec-[sogg2-[sn-[pers-[ich]]],ogg-[sn-[clitdat-[mich]]],ogg1-[snsempl-[art-[eine],ag-[bunte],n-[krawatte]]],ibar2-[vit-[umbinden]]]], punto-[.
]]The parser will issue two error messages:The first one is relative to Case assignment,?mich?
is in the accusative while dative isrequired.
The second one is relative to Subject-Verb agreement, ?willst?
is second personsingular while the subject ?ich?
is first personsingular.As to the use of f-structure for grammar checkingthe implementation we made in GETARUN ?
acomplete system for text understanding, is a casewhere parsing strategies are used.This is a web-based multilingual parser which isbased mainly on LFG theory and partly onChomskian theories, incorporating a number ofParsing Strategies which allow the student toparse ambiguous sentences using the appropriatestrategy in order to obtain an adequategrammatical output.
The underlying idea was thatof stimulating the students to ascertain and test bythemselves linguistic hypotheses with a givenlinguistically motivated system architecture.
Theparser builds c-structure and f-structure andcomputer anaphoric binding at sentence level; italso has provision for quantifier raising andtemporal local interpretation.
Predicates areprovided for all lexical categories, noun, verb,adjective and adverb and their description is alexical form in the sense of LFG.
It is composedboth of functional and semantic specifications foreach argument of the predicate: semanticselection is operated by means both of thematicrole and inherent semantic features or selectionalrestrictions.
Moreover, in order to select adjunctsappropriately  at each level of constituency,semantic classes are added to more traditionalsyntactic ones like transitive, unaccusative,reflexive and so on.
Semantic classes are of twokinds: the first class is related to extensionality vsintensionality, and is used to build discourserelations mainly; the second class is meant tocapture aspectual restrictions which decide theappropriateness and adequacy of adjuncts, so thatinappropriate ones are attached at a higher level.SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE I?Top-DownDGC-basedGrammar RulesLexical Look-UpOrFull MorphologicalAnalysisDeterministicPolicy:Look-aheadWFSTVerb Guidance FromSubcategorizationFramesSemantic Consistency Checkfor everySyntactic ConstituentStarting from CP levelPhrase Structure Rules==> F-structurecheck for CompletenessCoherence, UniquenessTense, Aspect andTime Reference:Time Relations andReference IntervalQuantifier RaisingPronominal Binding at f-structure levelTABLE 1.
GETARUNS PARSER3.1 Parsing StrategiesAmbiguities dealt with by the parser go fromdifferent binding solution of a pronoun contained ina subordinate clause by two possible antecedents,chosen according to semantic and pragmaticstrategies based on semantic roles and meaningassociated to the subordinating conjunction, as inthe following examples:i.The authorities refused permission to thedemonstrators because they feared violenceii.The authorities refused permission to thedemonstrators because they supported therevolutioniii.The cop shot the thief because he was escapingiv.Mario criticized Luigi because he ishypercriticalv.Mario criticized Luigi because he ruined hispartyvi.Mario called Luigi because he needed the filevii.The thieves stole the paintings in the museumviii.The thieves stole the painting in the nightThe underlying mechanisms for ambiguityresolution takes one analysis as default in case itis grammatical and the other/s plausibleinterpretations are obtained by activating one ofthe available strategies which are linguistically andpsychologically grounded.From our perspective, it would seem that parsingstrategies should be differentiated according towhether there are argument requirements orsimply semantic compatibily evaluation foradjuncts.
As soon as the main predicate or head isparsed, it makes available all lexical information inorder to predict if possible the complementstructure, or to guide the following analysisaccordingly.
As an additional remark, note that notall possible syntactic structure can lead toambiguous interpretations: in other words, weneed to consider only cases which are factuallyrelevant also from the point of view of languagedependent ambiguities.
To cope with this problem,we built up a comprehensive taxonomy from asyntactic point of view which takes into accountlanguage dependent ambiguitiesA.
Omissibility of Complementator?
NP vs S complement?
S complement vs relative clauseB.
Different levels of attachment forAdjuncts?
VP vs NP attachment of pp?
Low vs high attachment of relative clauseC.
Alternation of Lexical Forms?
NP complement vs main clause subjectD.
Ambiguity at the level of lexical category?
Main clause vs reduced relative clause?
NP vs S conjunctionE.
Ambiguities due to language specificstructural proprieties?
Preposition stranding?
Double Object?
Prenominal Modifiers?
Demonstrative-Complementizer Ambiguity?
Personal vs Possessive PronounHere below is a snapshot of the output of theparser for the sentence: ?The doctor called in theson of the pretty nurse who hurt herself/himself?.The c-structure is followed by the f-structurerepresentation where binding has taken place andrelative clause attachment is consequently realizedwith the higher or lower NP head according to thedifferent agreement requirements imposed by thetwo reflexive pronouns herself/himself either with?the nurse?
or with ?the son?.From a theoretical point of view this phenomenonis dubbed Short Binding, and is dealt with at thesame level of Grammaticality Principles, ratherthan as a case of Anaphoric Binding.
In this waya failure is imposed to the parser by agreementconstraints between the reflexive pronoun and itsbinder.References[1] P. Tapanainen and Voutilainen A.
(1994),Tagging accurately - don't guess if you know,Proc.
of ANLP '94,  pp.47-52, Stuttgart,Germany.
[2] Brants T. & C.Samuelsson(1995), Tagging theTeleman Corpus, in Proc.10th NordicConference of Computational Linguistics,Helsinki, 1-12.
[3] Lecomte J.
(1998), Le Categoriseur Brill14-JL5 / WinBrill-0.3, INaLF/CNRS,[4] Chanod J.P., P.Tapanainen (1995), TaggingFrench - comparing a statistical and a constraint-based method".
Proc.
EACL'95, pp.149-156.
[5] Brill E. (1992), A Simple Rule-Based Part ofSpeech Tagger, in Proc.
3rd Conf.
ANLP, Trento,152-155.
[6] Cutting D., Kupiec J., Pedersen J., Sibun P.,(1992), A practical part-of-speech tagger, in Proc.3rd Conf.
ANLP, Trento.
[7] Voutilainen A. and P. Tapanainen,(1993),Ambiguity resolution in a reductionistic parser, inSixth Conference of the European Chapter ofthe ACL, pp.
394-403.
Utrecht.
[8] Delmonte R., E.Pianta(1996), "IMMORTALE- Analizzatore Morfologico, Tagger eLemmatizzatore per l'Italiano", in Atti VConvegno AI*IA, Napoli, 19-22.
[9] Delmonte R. G.A.Mian, G.Tisato(1986), AGrammatical Component for a Text-to-SpeechSystem, Proceedings of the ICASSP'86, IEEE,Tokyo, 2407-2410.
[10] Delmonte R., R.Dolci(1989), Parsing Italianwith a Context-Free Recognizer, Annali di Ca'Foscari XXVIII, 1-2,123-161.
[11] Delmonte R., E.Pianta(1999), TagDisambiguation in Italian, in Proc.TreebanksWorkshop ATALA, pp.41-49.
[12] Delmonte R.(1999), From Shallow Parsing toFunctional Structure, in Atti del Workshop AI*IA- IRST Trento,pp.8-19.
[13] Delmonte R.(2000), Parsing withGETARUN, Proc.TALN2000, 7?
conf?renceannuel sur le TALN,Lausanne, pp.133-146.
[14]  Delmonte R.(2000),  Generating and ParsingClitics with GETARUN, Proc.
CLIN'99, Utrech,pp.13-27.Fig.
3 GETARUN parsing from user window
