Learn to speak and to write, learn to use your mindThe relevance of automatic text generation research for peopleMichael ZockLIMSI-CNRS, B.P.133,91403 Orsay, Francezock@limsi.frAbstractThe aim of this talk is to show to whatextent the work on text generation bycomputer (TGBC) does not addresssome of the fundamental problemspeople struggle with when generatinglanguage (TGBP).
We will substantiatethis claim by taking two tasks onwhich a lot of research has beencarried out during the last 15 years:discourse planning and lexicalisation.1 Discourse planningWhile a tremendous amount of work has beendone on the generation of coherent discourse,little if any has been devoted to writing.
As aresult, many fundamental problems have beenoverlooked or have been dealt with on the basisof wrong assumptions.
Also, little, if any of theresults achieved in the TGBC framework can bereused in the classroom or in the context of anintelligent writing-aid (tools for assisting thewriter to structure her/his thoughts: outlineplanning).
Let us consider some of the reasonswhy this is so.?
Top-down processing: in the TGBC-community texts are generally processed top tobottom.
Given some goal one looks for data(messages) and structures which integrate them.While this is a clever way to handle theproblem, it does not give a precise reflection ofthe writers?
situation.
First of all, it is not truethat content and structure are always determinedsimultaneously, an assumption accepted sinceMoore & Paris (1993).
Secondly, writers gene-rally switch between data-driven (brain-storming) and structure-driven processing (out-lining).
Thirdly, there is a triangular relationshipbetween messages, structures and goals (oreffects), changing any of them can affect theothers.
Yet, at present we do not have the fain-test idea what effect(s) a specific propositionalor conceptual configuration (order of messages)might produce.?
Lack of a Conceptual Structure Theory(CST): messages tend come to our mind in anyorder and without exhibiting their potentiallinks.
We have to discover these later, and toreorganize the former in order to reveal thestructure to the reader.
Writing is thinking.These last three points are crucial, yet none ofthe existing theories (schema, RST) is reallyable to take them into account.
Just imaginehow complex it is to recognize the fact thatthere is a causal link between two events.
Wedon?t have a solid theory of causality, leavealone a method of operationalizing it (i.e.
inferthis kind of link solely on the basis of theintrinsic features of the events involved).?
Interaction: As we all know, texts havestructure.
This latter is generally the result ofdiscourse planning (schemata or RST-based) orreasoning (chain of inferencing), in which casethe structure emerges as a side effect.
The majorshortcoming of all these techniques is that theydo not model the interaction between theconceptual data (ideas, messages), the textstructure and the rhetorical effects: (all) the datato be communicated and the global discoursegoal are generally given with the input.1 Theproblem of reconciling mismatches betweendata and structure,2 and the problem of variablerhetorical effects/goals as a function of variouslinearization strategies is not addressed at all.32 LexicalisationLexicalisation amounts mainly to searching andchoosing: one has to find lemmata, matching agiven conceptual chunk, and then one has tochoose among them.
While much emphasis hasbeen given to the notion of choice, far lessattention has been paid to the search mecha-nisms (or access strategies).
I will presentduring my talk some preliminary resultsconcerning a system that is meant to help peopleto overcome the tip-of-the tongue problem, awell known stumbling block in real-timeprocessing: we know what we want to say, weknow that we do know the word, yet we cannotaccess it (Brown and Mc Neill, 1966).If the fundamental role of a dictionary inNLG is obvious, it is less evident as to theprinciples governing its compilation.
A gooddictionary is a place with a lot of information,structured in such a way that the relevantinformation is easily accessible when needed.
Inother words, what counts is 'what is in thedictionary' (content) and 'how the information isorganized (meaning, form, sound).
These twofactors are not sufficient though: access dependsnot only on the structure of the lexicon(organisation), but also on the efficiency of1 While in Moore & Paris (1993), the messages arenot given, the goal is?
: it cannot emerge as a sideeffect.2 What shall we do if not all the data can beintegrated, or if we lack data for filling all theslots of a chosen structure?
Shall we keep thestructure and look for more data, or use a dif-ferent structure as it integrates more of the data?3 One of the reasons for this is that we do not havea clear understanding concerning the mappingbetween different conceptual configurations andtheir corresponding rhetorical effect(s).
If we did,we could use them bidirectionally (for analysisand generation).search strategies, an issue not addressed at allby the generation community.
As a matter offact, from a strict computational linguistic pointof view, the whole matter may be a non-issue.However, the problem does become relevantwhen we look at generation as a machine-me-diated process (people using a word processorfor writing) or from a psycholinguistic point ofview: word access in writing or spontaneousdiscourse.?
The speaker?s problem?
: choosing words,finding them or both?
?
Obviously, there is moreto lexicalisation than just choosing words: onehas to find them to begin with.
No matter howrich a lexical database may be, it is of little useif one cannot access the relevant information intime.
Access is probably THE major problem thatwe have to cope with when trying to producelanguage in real-time (in spoken or writtenform).
As I will show during my talk, this isprecisely a point where computers can be ofconsiderable help.Work on memory has shown that accessdepends crucially on the way information isorganized, yet the latter can vary to a greatextent.
From speech error literature we learn,that ease of access depends not only on meaningrelations,?, i.e.
the way words are organized inour mind),?
but also on linguistic form (letters,phonemes).
Researchers collecting speech errorshave offered countless examples of phono-logical errors in which segments (phonemes,syllables or words) are added, deleted, anti-cipated or exchanged (Fromkin, 1993).
The dataclearly show that knowing the meaning ofwords does not guarantee their access.The work on speech errors also reveals thatwords are stored in at least two modes, bymeaning and by form (written, spoken), and it isoften this latter which inhibits finding the righttoken: having inadvertently recombined thecomponents of a given word (syllable scramb-ling), one may end up producing a word, whicheither does not exist or is simply different fromthe one in mind.
This kind of recombination,resulting from bookkeeping problems (due totime pressure), parallel processing and infor-mation overload, may disturb or prevent theaccess of the right word.
Hence the usefulnessof a tool which allows the process to bereversed.
In order to allow this to be done, it isnecessary to represent words not only in termsof their meaning, but also in terms of theirwritten and spoken form.
The fact that words areindexed both by meaning and by sound couldnow be used to our advantage.
The phonetic co-ding of words allows the recombination of theirsegments (syllables), hence the presentation ofnew candidates, among which the user shouldfind the one s/he is looking for.4 The fact thatwords are coded semantically keeps the numberof candidates to be presented small.ConclusionI have tried to illustrate briefly to what extentwe have neglected the human factor in ourwork.
I have also attempted to show how asimple computational method (combinatoricsand filtering) can be used to bridge (one of) thegap(s) between TGBC and TGBP: text generationby people.ReferencesRoger Brown and David Mc Neill.
1966.
The tipof the tongue ?
phenomenon.
Journal of VerbalLearning and Verbal Behavior?, 5, 325-337Viktoria Fromkin.
1993.
Speech Production.
InPsycholinguistics edited by Jean Berko-Gleason& Nan Bernstein Ratner.
Fort Worth, TX:Harcourt, Brace, JovanovichJohanna Moore and Cecile Paris.
1993.Planning text for advisory dialogues: capturingintentional and rhetorical information.Computational Linguistics, 19(4).4The assumption is that speakers produce wordsthat formwise are reasonably close to the targetword.
A fact that is supported by psycholinguisticevidence.
