Towards Invariant Meanings of Spatial Prepositions and Preverbs1Jean-Pierre Descl?sParis-SorbonneLaLIC96, bd.
Raspail75006 Paris, FranceJean-Pierre.Descles@paris4.sorbone.frEwa Gwiazdecka2Paris-SorbonneLaLIC96, bd.
Raspail75006 Paris, FranceEwa.Gwiazdecka@paris4.sorbonne.frAzucena Montes-Rendon3Paris-SorbonneLaLIC96, bd.
Raspail75006 Paris, FranceAzucena.Montes-Rendon@paris4.sorbonne.fr1 The research was granted by Projet Cognitique "Espaces, langues et cognition" Minist?re de la Recherche, Paris, France.2 Granted by the scholarship of French Government.3 Granted by ANUIES-SUPERA, Mexican Government.AbstractThis work presents the semanticalanalysis of the two spatial prepositionsand associated prefixes, the Frenchsur, sur- (on) and the Polish przez,prze- (across).
We propose a theory ofabstract places (loci), as a method ofdescription which helps to build aninvariant meanings of the twolinguistics units.1 IntroductionNatural languages encode spatial and temporalrepresentations in many various ways (deictics,prepositions, verbal lexicon and preverb).
Thisarticle presents analyses of the two prepositionsand associated preverbs, the French sur, sur- (on)and the Polish przez, prze- (across).
We areparticularly interested in the way the prepositionand preverb determine a place.It is interesting to note that from a diacronicalview point (Bally, Meillet, Witkowska-Gutkowska) spatial prepositions becomepreverbs.
Two problems arise : Is the meaning ofthe preverb composed with the meaning oflexical predicate?
Does the meaning of thepreverb have a prepositional origin?
It ishowever impossible to present in this shortarticle the results of our analysis; we show onlythe methods by means of two mentionedexamples.
We note that the work on otherprepositions and preverbs in French, Polish andSpanish are in progress.Many linguists (Benett, Culioli, Pottier,Talmy?)
have recognized the necessity ofquasi-topological analysis for studying spaceencoded by languages.
However, it seems to usthat the elementary topology as defined formathematical analysis, does not capture exactlythe linguistic problems in an adequated way.
Forinstance, the idea of boundary as expressed bylanguages does not always refer to a point orlimit.
On the other hand, the understanding of aplace cannot be reduced to the spatial notion.Indeed, from the cognitive point of view, naturallanguages use more abstract notion whilereferring to the place.
Thus, we represent spatialplace but also temporal and notional as, forinstance, in Pottier's approach (Pottier:1992).We propose a theory of abstract places called"Abstract Loci Theory".
This theory usesoperators like in Kuratowski's algebra forelementary topology (Engelking: 1989).However, in this article, the operators ofinteriority, exteriority, closure and boundary aredefined with new properties such that we obtaina "quasi-topological" structure: the interiorityand exteriority operators are not idempotent andthe interiority of the boundary is not alwaysempty.
We note respectively INT, EXT, FRO,FER, the new operators of interiority, exteriority,boundary and closure in this Abstract LociTheory.
We propose to give an informalapproach to the main aspects of this theory as itis in progress.The notion locus refers to abstract place ( spatialor temporal or notional).
Let ?
be a referentialdomain and let the locus LOC be a part of ?.This locus LOC builds a partition of ?composed of three parts (see figure 1):INT (LOC): interior locus of LOC;EXT(LOC): exterior locus of LOC;FRO(LOC): boundary locus of LOC betweenEXT(LOC) and INT (LOC).The interior locus of LOC in Abstract LociTheory has the following properties:INT(INT (LOC)) ?
INT (LOC) ?
LOCIf LOC1 ?
LOC2 then INT (LOC1) ?
INT(LOC2)?
LOC, INT(LOC) ?
?The exterior locus of LOC is such that it isincluded in the complement of LOC.The closure locus of LOC is defined as:FER(LOC) = INT(LOC) ?
FRO(LOC)with the following property:FER(FER (LOC)) ?
FER (LOC) ?
LOCInside FRO(LOC) we distinguish two other loci,internal boundary and external boundary, suchthat : FRO-int(LOC) = LOC \ INT(LOC)FRO-ext(LOC) = FER(LOC) \ LOCThe boundary locus is then defined as:FRO(LOC) = FRO-int(LOC) ?
FRO-ext(LOC)We introduce the "anchoring relation" (French:rep?rage) between the "anchored entity" (rep?r?
)and the "anchor entity" (rep?re).
This relation isin general non-symmetric (Descl?s, Froidevaux:1982, Culioli: 1990).
The analysis of themeaning of the preposition is done by means ofAbstract Loci Theory and anchoring relation,where the preposition determines an anchor(Flageul: 1997, Descl?s: 1998a).Our hypothesis is that it is possible to exhibit aninvariant meaning in abductive process.
Weunderstand this invariant as cognitiverepresentation which does not occur in naturallanguages (Descl?s and alii: 1998).We consider the syntactical compositionality asan application of verbal prefix to verbal predicatein order to build a complex predicate (e.g.
sur-applies to veiller for building a complexpredicate surveiller) (Descl?s: 1998a).
However,on the representational level, thecompositionality between the meaning of thepreverb and that of the verb forms a newsemantical construct; the result that cannot bedescribed by a simple function, but is ratherconceived as complex interaction betweensemantical units.2 Sur and Sur- in French2.1 The French preposition sur (on)Let us analyze the prepositional examples bymeans of the above explained method.
In theexample below:(1) Le livre est sur la tableThe book is on the tablethe preposition sur expresses the position of theentity the_book (anchored) to the surface ofthe_table (anchor) according to the high-lowgradient (gravity) which is orthogonal to theINT(LOC)EXT(LOC)FRO-int (LOC)FRO-ext (LOC)FRO (LOC)LOC?Figure 1anchor.
There is a contact between these entities.The preposition sur indicates the externalboundary locus- FRO-ext (the_table) ofanchoring.
(2) L?affiche est sur le murThe poster is on the wall(3) La mouche est sur le plafondThe fly is on the ceilingThe preposition sur in (2) indicates the anchoringrelation between the_poster (anchored) and in (3)FRO_ext of the_wall (anchor), the_fly andFRO_ext of the_ceiling.
There is contact in theseexamples.
The gradient is determined by someother kind of force, which is not gravity.
(4) Les ponts sur la MoselleThe bridges on the Moselle riverWe can analyze the preposition sur in (4) like in(1) that is, we have the anchoring relation toFRO_ext of the_river according to the high-lowgradient, without contact.
(5) Luc appuie sur une touche du pianoLuc presses a key of the pianoLuc controls the action considered as an orientedmovement establishing a contact betweenhis_hand and the FRO_ext of the piano_key Thegradient is determined by the action expressedthrough the verb appuyer (to press).
(6) Le regard de Jean tombe sur sa filleThe glance of Jean falls on his daughterJean controls the oriented movement of hisglance.
This movement is directed to the externalboundary locus of the visibility determinedaround his_daughter.
Hence a gradient isdetermined by the orientation of the movementof his glance.
(7) Je l?attends sur les onze heuresI?m waiting for him around eleven o?clockThis is a temporal example where eleven_o?clockis an interval considered as anchor.
The globalvision of this temporal locus explains themeaning of the preposition sur, glossed as:?being over (FRO_ext) the locusaround_eleven_o?clock?.We can describe the invariant meaning of thepreposition sur as anchoring relation of an entityto the external boundary locus, FRO_ext(LOC),according to an orthogonal gradient.
We notethat the contact between the entities is notnecessary.2.2 The French Preverb sur-The same analysis as for preposition is applied tothe preverb sur-.
(8) L?avion survole Paris-> The plane flies over ParisThe complex predicate survoler (to overfly) in(8) provides two pieces of information: one isrelated to the verb voler (to fly) and the other, tothe preverb sur-.
This preverb indicates that theposition of movement of the_plane is localizedto the FRO_ext of Paris, according to the high-low gradient.
There is no contact.
(9) Pierre sur?l?ve la table-> Pierre raises the table over somethingIn this example, the preverb sur- indicates thatthe_table is put on the external boundary of ahigher place (FRO_ext).
(10) La lanterne surmonte la porte-> The lantern is over the doorIn (10), the glance of any observer starts from thelow part of the_door and rises up, to visualizethe_lantern which is on the FRO-ext of thesuperior part of the_door.
Here, we have to dowith static description.
(11) Le magasin surbaisse les prix des v?tements-> The shop lowers the prices beyond a thresholdThe preverb sur- in (11) indicates that the actionexpressed by the verb baisser (to lower) isrealized beyond the established threshold, that is,the verb is realized on the external boundarylocus (FRO-ext of_threshold), the notional locusbeing organized by the prices.
(12) Emilie suralimente son b?b?-> Emilie feeds her baby over the thresholdIn (12), the process indicated by theaccumulative verb alimenter (to feed) continuestowards a boundary of accomplishment, thisboundary being beyond a threshold (correctfeeding of a baby).
The preverb sur- indicatesthat the boundary is "above" the threshold.Consequently, the process goes over thisthreshold.
(13) Luc surmonte ses probl?mes-> Luc overcomes his problemsWe analyze the meaning of (13) as follows: Lucis anchored to the abstract locus (the activity"being affected by problems").
The verb monter(to rise up) is used to show that Luc becomes lessand less affected by his_problems, until hebecomes completely unaffected.The spatial use of the preverb sur-, is orientedaccording to the high-low gradient (gravity)(8,9,10) and the position above the externalboundary of an anchor.
In the other cases(11,12,13), the preverb sur- indicates a positionabove the external boundary of locus, organizedaccording to some gradient.
The cognitiverepresentation (see figure 2) shows the netmeaning of preposition sur and preverb sur-, aswell as the common invariant meaning of them.3.
Przez and Prze- in Polish3.1 Polish Preposition przez (across)The preposition przez in the example belowexpresses the idea of crossing the locus:(14) Sekwana p?ynie przez Pary?Seine to flow across ParisThe Seine flows through ParisParts of river pass through the locus Paris.
Weconsider in (14) five salient phases of thepassage: at the beginning of the process, the partsof river are localized to the exterior EXT(LOC),then to the boundary FRO(LOC), they arrive inthe interior INT(LOC), passing again theboundary FRO(LOC), and coming out toEXT(LOC).
The double passage through theboundary locus presupposes an orientation of thislocus, imposed here by the flow of the river.
(15) S?o?ce zagl?da przez oknosun to come in across windowThe sunshine comes in through the windowThis example introduces an intermediate locusIME(LOC) inside the FRO(LOC) with FRO-extand FRO-int, considered as locus ofcommunication between EXT(LOC) andINT(LOC).
The passage implies three salientphases of the movement.
We note thatspatial temporal spatio-temporalcontact no contact (4)gravity (1) force(2),  (3)(7)action (5) observ.
(6)invariant: orthogonal gradientto external boundaryspatialhigh-low gradient no spatial(11)no contact(8)contact(9)static (10)(13) accumulativeverbs (12)invariant: orthogonal gradientto external boundarymovementthresholdNet of prepositional meaning sur Net of preverbal meaning sur-Figure 2IME(LOC) is encoded in natural languages asthe privileged passage (door, window?).
(16) Darek nie przychodzi?
przez ca?y miesi?cnot to come across whole monthDarek has not come for the whole monthThe meaning "crossing a locus" is present in (16)considering miesi?c (the month) as a locus oftemporal nature.
We pass through the boundaryFRO(LOC) through interior INT(LOC) to thesecond boundary FRO(LOC), the locus beingtemporally oriented.
(17) Przez ciebie zm?czy?am si?across you to get tiredI got tired because of youWe analyze (17) using the intermediate locusIME(LOC), but on a more abstract level.
Let usconsider a domain related to the notion"tiredness".
The exterior EXT(LOC) is related to"not being tired", while the interior INT(LOC),to "being tired".
To pass from EXT(LOC) intoINT(LOC), we need to cross IME(LOC), whichrefers to a notional locus "you".
Consequently,three salient phases are taken into account.
(18) Rozmawia?am z nim  przez  telefon.to speak with him across phoneI spoke to him over (across) the phoneWe need to "cross" an instrument the_phone toreach another person, thus we also refer to theintermediate locus IME(LOC) in the domain ofcommunication.We have so far discussed the examples takinginto account the meaning of the Polishpreposition przez in regard to the proposedconcepts of the Abstract Loci Theory.
We maynow structure those examples.
On the one hand,we distinguish spatio-temporal, temporal andnotional loci, and on the other hand, we haveshown two related representations of theprepositional meaning: the one refers to crossinga locus, the other uses an intermediate locuswhile crossing.
Based on these analyses, weconsider an invariant meaning of the prepositionprzez as crossing a boundary locus.3.2 The Polish Preverb prze-We will now establish a similar analysis ofpreverbal examples prze-, in order to show aninvariant meaning of the complex predicate.
Tosimplify our study we omit the aspectualconsideration of the preverb, taking into accountonly the relationship to the meaning of thepreposition.
(19) Przeszed?
przez ulic?across-to walk across streetHe walked across the streetWe encounter here "crossing" the locus ulica(street) expressed by compositionality betweenthe preverb prze- and the lexical predicate i??
(towalk).
Five salient phases are considered in (19):a passage from the exterior EXT(LOC) to theboundary FRO(LOC), then to the interiorINT(LOC), next to another boundary FRO(LOC)for going out, to the exterior EXT(LOC).
Thelocus ulica (street) is temporally oriented.
(20) Przela?
wino z beczki do butelkiacross-to pour wine  from  barrel to bottleHe poured wine from the barrel into the bottleThe semantic description of (20) appeals to anintermediate locus IME(LOC), which is notspecified here.
The compositionality betweenprze- and la?
(to pour) means that the entity(wine) is localized to exterior locus (barrel) andcrosses the intermediate locus IME(LOC) to belocalized to the interior INT(LOC) (the_bottle).
(21) Anna przeczyta?a ksi?
?k?across-to read bookShe read the book "across"/ She achieved her readingThe compositionality takes into account not onlythe preverb prze- and the predicate czyta?
(toread), but also the object ksi?
?ka (the book).
Theaction of reading is thus simultaneous to"crossing" the object the_book conceived as alocus.
Thus, we consider three salient phases:boundary FRO(LOC) (the beginning of thebook), interior INT(LOC) and boundaryFRO(LOC) (the end of the book and the end ofreading, in the sense achievement of this action).
(22) Przemalowa?a ?ciany na zielonoacross-to paint wall into greenShe has repainted the wall in greenThe example (22) expresses the property changeaffecting an objet.
In the domain related tocolors, we consider the first color as an exteriorEXT(LOC).
"To reach" the other color,considered as interior INT(LOC), we need tocross an unspecified intermediate locusIME(LOC).
Changing the property is oriented intime.
(23) Matka przekarmi?a dzieckomother across-feed babyThe mother overfed the babySome accumulative verbs (to salt, to cook) implya change towards a threshold.
The prefix prze- inconnection to the predicate karmi?
(to feed),indicates the passage from the exteriorEXT(LOC), to which we associated the meaning?not enough?, through intermediate locusIME(LOC).
The amount of food in IME(LOC) isaccurate.
"Passing" into interior INT(LOC) isinterpreted as ?too much?.
The amount of foodorganizes these locus.
(24) Jan  przegra?
wszystkie pieni?dze w kasynieacross-toplay all money in casino"Jan has played across all his money"Jan has lost all his money in casinoThe domain is related here to the game.
Weconsider the passage from EXT(LOC) (havingenough money) through the intermediate locusIME(LOC) (still having money) into the interiorINT(LOC) (having no money).
The bet organizesthe locus.We organize now the preverbial examples in theway we did it for the preposition.
We note thatthe preverb introduces a dynamic change whilecomposed with the predicate.
This is due to itsperfectivizing role that we do not develop in thisarticle.
The examples (19) to (22), express themeaning "crossing" a locus or "crossing itthrough an intermediate locus".
We encounter aswell the explicit idea of going over a threshold(23 & 24).
The invariant meaning for the preverbcomposed semantically with a predicate is thuscrossing the boundary locus, the same as in theprepositional case.
Given the analysis ofpreposition and the associated preverb, we cannow establish the relation between the nets ofmeanings (see figure 3)3 ConclusionThe analysis of prepositional examples of sur,led us to establish an invariant meaning, whichcorresponds to anchoring to the externalboundary locus with a gradient.
The invariantmeaning of the preposition sur corresponds tothe invariant meaning of the preverb sur-.This result seems more general than the analysisof C. Vandeloise (Vandeloise: 1985), as theresemblance family porteur-port?
established inhis work does not explain the examples (5)-(7) ofsur.
As for the Polish preposition przez and itsassociated preverb prze-, we managed toestablish the same invariant meaning for the twolinguistic units: it refers to "crossing theboundary locus".
However, this analysis does notcrossingthelocus(14)crossingthelocus(16)preposition  przezspatial locus temporallocusnotionallocusintermediatelocus(15)intermediate locus(17), (18)invariant : crossing the boudarylocusspatialchangecrossingthelocus:(19)intermediatelocus:(20)invariant : crossing the boudarylocusprze-(verbe)objectchangepropertychangecrossingthe boudarylocuscrossingtheobject:(21)crossingintermediateplace:(22)going overthreshold(23),(24)Net of prepositional meaning przezFigure 3Net of preverbal meaning prze-take into account the aspectual consideration ofthe prefix, which in Polish has a perfectivizingrole; the same approach will be used in thesemantical studies of aspect in Polish.
Our resultsmay be compared to the analyses for thepreposition przez and preverb prze- obtained inthe framework of the Langacker's grammar(Dabrowska: 1996), but the latter does not useany topological approach.We claim that the invariant meaning is notuniversal across natural languages.
Each naturallanguage organizes its own cognitiverepresentations (Descl?s: 1998b) as it wasshown, for example, by Bowerman (Bowerman:1996), who compared different meanings of thepreposition across few languages:apple in bowl, b. handle on pan, c. bandaid onleg, d. right on finger, e. fly on door.a b c d eEnglish in on on on onFrench dans de sur ?
surDutch aan op om op aanIf we look now at the following sentences inEnglish, Spanish, Polish and French:(i) The book is on the table(ii) El libro esta en la mesa(iii) Ksi?
?ka jest na stole(iv) Le livre est sur la tableThe prepositions on, na, en in these examples aretranslated by the French sur.
And yet, theanalogues of sur in English, Spanish and Polishcorrespond only to a particular meaning of sur,the value given in (1).
The invariant meanings ofon, na, en are always defined within respectivelanguages.If we consider the preverbal examples:(12) Emilie suralimente son b?b?-> Emilie feeds her baby over the threshold(23) Matka przekarmi?a dzieckoThe mother overfed the babywe notice that the two sentences have the samestate of affairs, but their cognitive construal isrelated to each language (French or Polish).Thus, in (12) the prefix sur- indicates the processthat continues up to the degree situated over thethreshold, while (23) indicates the passage from?not enough?
to ?going over the threshold?.
Thispassage is present in (12), however it isconsidered as a secondary effect.In Fregean words: (12) and (23) have the sameSinn, but differ in Bedeutung.4 BibliographyBALLY, Charles.
1954.
Linguistiqueg?n?rale et linguistique fran?aise.
Francke, Bern.BENNETT, D. C. 1975.
Spatial and temporaluses of English Prepositions.
London: Longman.BOWERMAN, Melissa.
1996.
"Cognitiveversus linguistic determinants."
In Gumperz &Levinson (eds.).
Rethinking linguistic relativity,pp.
144-176.CULIOLI, Antoine.
1990.
Pour unelinguistique de l??nonciation.
Op?rations etrepr?sentations.
Tome 1.
Ophrys.D?BROWSKA, Ewa.
1996.
"The spatialstructuring of events: A study of Polishperfectivizing prefixes."
In Martin P?tz & Ren?Dirven (eds.).
The Construal of Space inLanguage and Thought.
Mouton de Gruyter.Berlin New York.
pp.
467-489.DESCL?S, Jean-Pierre.
1998a.
"Pr?positionspatiales, relateurs et pr?verbes."
Actes duColloque Les relations, Lille, mars (in press).DESCL?S, Jean-Pierre.
1998b.
"Lesrepr?sentations cognitives du langage sont-ellesuniverselles?"
In Matteo Negro, (ed.).
La r?alit?et le signe.
Editions Universitaires, Fribourg,Suisse.
pp.
53-81.DESCL?S, Jean-Pierre., FROIDEVAUX,Christine.
1982.
"Axiomatisation de la notionde rep?rage abstrait."
Math?matiquesInformatique et Sciences Humaines, 78: 73-119.DESCL?S, Jean-Pierre., FLAGEUL,Val?rie., KECKENBOSCH, Christiane.,MEUNIER, Jean-Marc., RICHARD, Jean-Fran?ois.
1998.
"S?mantique de l'action.
"Langages, 132: 28-47.ENGELKING, Ryszard.
1989.
GeneralTopology.
Helderman Verlag.
Berlin.FLAGEUL, Val?rie.
1997.
Descriptions?mantico-cognitive des pr?positions spatialesdu fran?ais.
Th?se de doctorat.
Universit?
deParis-Sorbonne.LANGACKER, Ronald.
1987, 1991.Foundations of Cognitive Grammar I, II.Standford: Standford University Press.MEILLET, Antoine.
1937.
Introduction ?l'?tude comparative des langues indo-europ?ennes.
ParisPOTTIER, Bernard.
1992.
S?mantiqueg?n?rale.
Presses Universitaires de France.TALMY, Leonard.
1983.
"How LanguageStructures Space" in H. Pick, L. Acredolo (eds),Spatial Orientation: Theory, Research andApplication.
New York: Plenum Press.
pp.
225-82.VANDELOISE Claude.
1985.
"Lespr?positions SUR/SOUS et la relationPORTEUR/PORTE Leuvense Bijdragen 74 pp.457-481.WITKOWSKA-GUTKOWSKA, Maria.1989.
"Funkcje czasownikowego przedrostkaprzy- w porownaniu z funkcjami przyimka przyw jezyku polskim."
Acta UniversitatisLodziensis; Folia Linguistica 21.
