Multilingual Authoring: the NAMIC approachR.
Basili, M.T.
PazienzaF.
ZanzottoDept.
of Computer ScienceUniversity of Rome, Tor VergataVia di Tor Vergata,00133 RomaItalybasili@info.uniroma2.itpazienza@info.uniroma2.itzanzotto@info.uniroma2.itR.
Catizone, A. SetzerN.
Webb, Y. WilksDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of SheffieldRegent Court211 Portobello Street,Sheffield S1 4DP, UKR.Catizone@dcs.shef.ac.ukA.Setzer@dcs.shef.ac.ukN.Webb@dcs.shef.ac.ukY.Wilks@dcs.shef.ac.ukL.
Padro?, G. RigauDept.
Llenguatges i Sistemes Informa`ticsUniversitat Polite`cnica de CatalunyaCentre de Recerca TALPJordi Girona Salgado 1-3,08034 BarcelonaSpainpadro@lsi.upc.esg.rigau@lsi.upc.esAbstractWith increasing amounts of elec-tronic information available, and theincrease in the variety of languagesused to produce documents of thesame type, the problem of how tomanage similar documents in dif-ferent languages arises.
This pa-per proposes an approach to process-ing/structuring text so that Multi-lingual Authoring (creating hyper-text links) can be effectively car-ried out.
This work, funded bythe European Union, is applied tothe Multilingual Authoring of newsagency text.
We have applied meth-ods from Natural Language Process-ing, especially Information Extrac-tion technology, to both monolingualand Multilingual Authoring.1 IntroductionModern Information Technologies are facedwith the problem of selecting, filtering andmanaging growing amounts of multilingualinformation to which access is usually criti-cal.
Traditional Information Retrieval (IR)approaches are too general in their selectionof relevant documents where as traditionalInformation Extraction (IE) (Gaizauskas andWilks, 1998; Pazienza, 1997) approaches aretoo specific and inflexible.
Automatic Au-thoring is a good example of how these twomethods can be improved and used to cre-ate a hypertextual organisation of (multilin-gual) information.
This kind of informationis ?added value?
to the information embodiedin the text and is not in contrast with otherretrieval paradigms.
Automatic Authoringis the activity of processing news items instreams, detecting and extracting relevant in-formation from them and, accordingly, organ-ising texts in a non-linear fashion.While IE systems like the ones participat-ing in the Message Understanding Conference(MUC, 1998) are oriented towards specificphenomena (e.g.
joint ventures) in restricteddomains, the scope of Automatic Authoringis wider.
In Automatic Authoring, the hy-pertextual structure has to provide naviga-tion guidelines to the final user which can alsorefuse the system suggestions.In this paper an architecture for AutomaticMultilingual Authoring is presented based onknowledge-intensive and large-scale Informa-tion Extraction.
The general architectureis presented capitalising robust methods ofInformation Extraction (Cunningham et al,1999) and large-scale multilingual resources(e.g.
EuroWordNet).
The system is de-veloped within a European project in theHuman Language Technologies area, calledNAMIC (News Agencies Multilingual Infor-mation Categorisation)1.
It aims to extractrelevant facts from the news streams of largeEuropean news agencies and newspaper pro-ducers2, to provide hypertextual structureswithin each (monolingual) stream and thenproduce cross-lingual links between streams.2 Authoring2.1 Automatic AuthoringAs Automatic Authoring is the task of au-tomatically deriving a hypertextual structurefrom a set of available news articles (in threedifferent languages English, Spanish and Ital-ian in our case), the complexity of the overallframework requires a suitable decomposition:Text processing requires at least the de-tection of morphosyntactic information char-acterising the source texts: recognition, nor-malisation, and assignment of roles is requiredfor the main participants for the differentevents/facts described.Event Matching is then the activity ofselecting the relevant facts of a news arti-cle, in terms of their general type (e.g.
sell-ing or buying companies, winning a footballmatch), their participants and their relatedroles (e.g.
the company sold or the winningfootball team).Authoring is thus the activity of gener-ating links between news articles accordingto relationships established among facts de-tected in the previous phase.For instance, a company acquisition can bereferred to in one (or more) news items as:?
Intel, the world?s largest chipmaker,bought a unit of Danish cable maker NKTthat designs high-speed computer chips ...1See http://namic.itaca.it.2EFE and ANSA, the major news agencies in Spainand Italy respectively, and the Financial Times are allmembers of the NAMIC consortium.?
The giant chip maker Intel said it ac-quired the closely held ICP Vortex Com-putersysteme, a German maker of sys-tems ...?
Intel ha acquistato Xircom inc. per 748milioni di dollari.The hypothesis underlying Authoring isthat all the above news items deal with factsin the same area of interest to a potential classof readers.
They should be thus linked andlinks should suggest to the user that the un-derlying motivation (used to decide whetheror not to follow an available link) is that theyall refer to Intel acquisitions.Notice that a link generation process basedonly upon words would fail in the above caseas the common word (that could play the roleof anchor in linking) is the proper noun Intel.As no other information is available, the re-sulting set of potential matches can be hugeand the connectivity too high.In order to get the suitable links the equiv-alence between the senses of bought and ac-quired in the first two news items must beknown.
Although such a relation can bedrawn by mechanisms like query expansion orthesauri of synonyms (e.g.
WordNet (Miller,1990)), word polysemy and noise may re-sult in an inherent proliferation of irrelevantmatches.
Contextual information is criticalhere.
Notice that the senses of ?buy?
and ?ac-quire?
are constrained by the role played byIntel as ?agent ?
and NKT or ICP Vortex be-ing the sold companies.
In fact, Intel buyssilicon represents an unwanted sense of theverb and should be distinguished.The relevant information concerning Intelshould be thus limited to:?
Intel buys a unit of NKT?
Intel acquires ICP Vortex.These descriptions provide the core infor-mation able to establish equivalence amongthe underlying events.
Whenever base eventdescriptions are available the linking processcan be carried out via simpler equivalence in-ferences.
The Authoring problem is thus aside effect of the overall language-processingtask.According to the suggested decompositionall the above steps are mandatory.
First textprocessing is responsible for morpho-syntacticrecognition.
Morphological units and syntac-tic relations are produced for each sentence atthis stage.
However, syntactic relations (e.g.among subjects and verbs) are not sufficientfor proper event characterisation.
In the ex-ample(s), the subject of the verb acquire isa pronoun only anaphorically referring to In-tel.
Co-reference resolution is usually appliedto this kind of mismatch at the surface level.This capability is under the responsibility ofthe event matching phase.
Moreover, in or-der to keep track of events over syntactic rep-resentations, references to a target ontologyare required.
In such an ontology, equiva-lence among facts (e.g.
buying companies) isrepresented.
For instance, the relation amongbuy and acquire can be encoded under a moregeneral notion of financial acquisition.
On-tologies also define the set of relevant facts ofthe target domain.
A financial acquisition isa perfect example of what is needed in cor-porate industrial news but is less important,for example, in sports news, where hiring ofplayers seems a more relevant event class.Conceptual differences among facts (de-tected during event matching) motivate a se-lective notion of hyperlinking.
These linkscan be thus generated during the automaticauthoring phase.
They are ontologically jus-tified as their conceptual representation is al-ready available at this stage.
Types as sameacquisition fact, same person, or company canbe used to distinguish links and make expla-nations available to the user.2.2 Multilingual AutomaticAuthoring?From a multilingual perspective, the prob-lem is to establish links among news in dif-ferent languages.
Full-text approaches canrely only on language independent phenom-ena (e.g.
proper nouns like Intel) that arevery limited in texts.
Most of the above-mentioned inferences require language neu-tral information (i.e.
conceptual and not lexi-cal constraints).
The inherent overgenerationrelated to word polysemy affects the resultsof translation-based approaches.
Again prin-cipled representations made available by IEprocesses (i.e.
templates) provide a viablesolution.
The different event realisations (inthe different languages) can be handled dur-ing the overall event matching.
A lexical in-terface to the ontology is able to factor thelanguage specific information.
As syntacticdifferences are handled during text process-ing, the result is a common domain model forIE plus independent lexical interfaces.
Theunified representation of the set of facts ac-tivates multilingual linking at a conceptuallevel, thus making the Authoring a languageindependent process.
Some challenges of sucha framework are:?
the size of the ontological resources re-quired in terms of taxonomic (i.e.
IS Arelations) and conceptual information(i.e.
classes of events and impliedparticipant-event relations)?
the size of the lexical interfaces to theontology available for the different lan-guages?
the amount of task dependent knowledge.For example the definition of the set ofevents useful for the target application isunderspecified.In the following, we propose a complex ar-chitecture where the above problems areapproached according to well-assessed tech-niques presented elsewhere.
Robust Informa-tion Extraction is adopted (Humphreys et al,1998) as an overall method for text process-ing and event matching.
Target events aresemiautomatically derived from domain textsand represented in the IE engine ontology.
Fi-nally, multilinguality is realised by assuming alarge-scale multilingual lexical hierarchy as areference ontology for nominal concepts.
Theresulting architecture for Multilingual Auto-matic Authoring is presented in Section 3.4.3 The NAMIC system3.1 Large scale IE for AutomaticAuthoringInformation Extraction is a very good ap-proach to Automatic Authoring for a num-ber of reasons.
The key components of an IEsystem are events and objects - the kind ofcomponents that trigger hyperlinks in an Au-thoring system.
Coreference is a significantpart of Information Extraction and indeed anecessary component in Authoring.
NamedEntities - people, places, and organisations,etc.
- play an important part in Authoringand again are firmly addressed in InformationExtraction systems.The role of a world model as a methodfor event matching and coreferencingThe world model is an ontological represen-tation of events and objects for a particulardomain or set of domains.
The world modelis made up of a set of event and object types,with attributes.
The event types characterisea set of events in a particular domain andare usually represented in a text by verbs.Object Types on the other hand, are bestthought of as characterising a set of people,places or things and are usually representedin a text by nouns (both proper and com-mon).
When used as part of an InformationExtraction system, the instances of each typeare inserted/added to the world model.
Oncethe instances have been added, a procedureis carried out to link those instances that re-fer to the same thing - achieving coreferenceresolution.In NAMIC, the world model is createdusing the XI cross-classification hierarchy(Gaizauskas and Humphreys, 1996).
The def-inition of a XI cross-classification hierarchy isreferred to as an ontology, and this togetherwith an association of attributes with nodesin the ontology forms the world model.
Pro-cessing a text acts to populate this initiallybare world model with the various instancesand relations mentioned in the text, convert-ing it into a discourse model specific to theparticular text.The attributes associated with nodes inthe ontology are simple attribute:value pairswhere the value may either be fixed, as inthe attribute animate:yes which is associ-ated with the person node, or where the valuemay be dependent on various conditions, theevaluation of which makes reference to otherinformation in the model.3.1.1 The Description of LaSIELaSIE is a Large-scale Information Ex-traction system, developed for MUC (Mes-sage Understanding Conference) competi-tions, comprised of a variety of modules, see(Humphreys et al, 1998; MUC, 1998).
Al-though we are not using the complete LaSIEsystem in NAMIC, we are using 2 of the keymodules - the Named Entity Matcher and theDiscourse Processor.
Below is a description ofeach of these modules.Named Entity Matcher The Named En-tity Matcher finds named entities througha secondary phase of parsing which uses anamed entity grammar and a set of gazetteerlists.
It takes as input parsed text from thefirst phase of parsing and the named entitygrammar which contains rules for finding apredefined set of named entities and a set ofgazetteer lists containing proper nouns.
TheName Entity Matcher returns the text withthe Named Entities marked.
The Named En-tities in NAMIC are PERSONS, ORGANI-SATIONS, LOCATIONS, and DATES.
TheNamed Entity grammar contains rules forcoreferring abbreviations as well as differentways of expressing the same named entitysuch as Dr. Smith, John Smith and Mr.Smith occurring in the same article.Discourse Processor The Discourse Pro-cessor module translates the semantic rep-resentation produced by the parser into arepresentation of instances, their ontolog-ical classes and their attributes, in theXI knowledge representation language (seeGaizauskas(1996)).
XI allows a straightfor-ward definition of cross-classification hierar-chies, the association of arbitrary attributeswith classes or instances, and a simple mech-anism to inherit attributes from classes or in-stances higher in the hierarchy.The semantic representation produced bythe parser for a single sentence is processedby adding its instances, together with theirattributes, to the discourse model which hasbeen constructed so far for the text.Following the addition of the instancesmentioned in the current sentence, togetherwith any presuppositions that they inherit,the coreference algorithm is applied to at-tempt to resolve, or in fact merge, each ofthe newly added instances with instances cur-rently in the discourse model.The merging of instances involves the re-moval of the least specific instance (i.e.
thehighest in the ontology) and the addition ofall its attributes to the other instance.
Thisresults in a single instance with more than onerealisation attribute, which corresponds to asingle entity mentioned more than once in thetext, i.e.
a coreference.3.2 Ontological ModelingAs we have seen in section 3.1, some criticalissues of the NAMIC project rely on the per-formance of the lexical and conceptual compo-nents of all linguistic processors.
As NAMICfaces large-scale coverage of news in severallanguages we decided to adopt EuroWordNet(Vossen, 1998) as a common semantic formal-ism to support:?
lexical semantic inferences (e.g.
general-isation, disambiguation)?
broad coverage (e.g.
lexical and semanti-cal) and?
a common interlingual platform for link-ing events from different documents.The NAMIC ontology consists of 40 prede-fined object classes and 46 attribute types re-lated to Name Entity objects and nearly 1000objects relating to EuroWordNet base con-cepts.3.2.1 EuroWordNet as a MultilingualLexical Knowledge BaseSince the world model aims to describe thelanguage used in a given domain via eventsand objects, the accuracy and breadth of themodel will impact how well the informationextraction works.EuroWordNet (Vossen, 1998) is a multilin-gual lexical knowledge base (LKB) with word-nets for several European languages (Dutch,Italian, Spanish, German, French, Czech andEstonian).
The wordnets are structuredin the same way as the American wordnetfor English developed at Princeton (Miller,1990) containing synsets (sets of synonymouswords) with basic semantic relations betweenthem.Each wordnet represents a uniquelanguage-internal system of lexicalisa-tions.
In addition, the wordnets are linkedto an Inter-Lingual-Index (ILI), based onthe Princeton WordNet 1.5.
WordNet 1.6 isalso connected to the ILI as another EnglishWordNet (Daude et al, 2000).
Via thisindex, the languages are interconnected sothat it is possible to go from the words inone language to words in any other languagehaving similar meaning.
The index alsogives access to a shared top-ontology anda subset of 1024 Base Concepts (BC).
TheBase Concepts provide a common seman-tic framework for all the languages, whilelanguage specific properties are maintainedin the individual wordnets.
The LKB canbe used, among others, for monolingual andcross-lingual information retrieval, whichhas been demonstrated in other projects(Gonzalo et al, 1998).3.3 Multilingual Event descriptionThe traditional limitations of a knowledge-based information extraction system such asLaSIE have been the need to hand-code in-formation for the world model - specificallyrelating to the event structure of the domain.For the NAMIC project, we have decidedto semi-automate the process of adding new?event descriptions?
to the World Model.
Tous, event descriptions can be categorised as aset of regularly occurring verbs within our do-main, complete with their subcategorisationinformation.These verbs can be extracted with simplestatistical techniques and are, for the momentsubjected to hand pruning.
Once a list ofverbs has been extracted, subcategorisationpatterns can be generated automatically usinga Galois lattice (as described in (Basili et al,2000b)).
These frames can then be uploadedinto the event hierarchy of the discourse in-terpreter world model.The world model can have a structurewhich is essentially language independent inall but the lowest level - at which stage lexi-calisations relating to each representative lan-guage are required.
Associated with these lex-icalisations are language dependent scenariorules which control the behaviour of instancesof these events with a Discourse Model.
Theserules are expected to differ across languages inthe way they control coreference for languageswhich are constrained to lesser or greater de-gree.The lattice generates patterns which referto synsets in the WordNet hierarchy.
Forour purposes, we will use patterns referring toBase Concepts in the EuroWordNet hierarchy- which allows us to exploit the Inter-Lingual-Index as described in the previous section.These Base Concepts serve as a level of mul-tilingual abstraction for the conceptual con-straints of our events, and allow us to extendthe number of semantic classes from seven(the MUC Named Entity classifications) to1024 - the number of base concepts in EWN.3.4 The NAMIC ArchitectureThe complexity of the overall NAMIC sys-tem required the adoption of a distributedcomputing paradigm in the design.
The sys-tem is a distributed object oriented systemwhere services (like text processing or Multi-lingual Authoring) are provided by indepen-dent components and asynchronous communi-cation is allowed.
Independent news streamsfor the different languages (English, Spanish,and Italian) are assumed.
Language specificprocessors (LPs) are thus responsible for textprocessing and event matching in indepen-dent text units in each stream.
LPs com-pile an objective representation (see Fig.
1)for each source texts, including the detectedmorphosyntactic information, categorisationin news standards (IPTC classes) and descrip-tion of the relevant events.
Any later Au-thoring activity is based on this canonicalrepresentation of the news.
In particular amonolingual process is carried out within anystream by the three monolingual AuthoringEngines (English AE, Spanish AE, and Ital-ian AE).
A second phase is foreseen to takeinto account links across streams, i.e.
multi-lingual hyper-linking: a Multilingual Author-ing Engine (M-AE) is here foreseen.
Figure1 represents the overall flow of information.The Language Processors are composed of amorphosyntactic (Eng, Ita and Spa MS) andan event-matching component (EM).
The lex-ical interfaces (ELI, SLI and ItLI) to the uni-fied Domain model are also used during eventmatching.The linguistic processors are in charge ofproducing the objective representation of in-coming news.
This task is performed duringMS analysis by two main subprocessors:?
a modular and lexicalised shallowmorpho-syntactic parser (Basili et al,2000c), providing name entity match-ing and extracting dependency graphsfrom source sentences.
Ambiguity iscontrolled by part-of-speech tagging anddomain verb-subcategorisation framesthat guide the dependency recognitionphase.?
a statistical linear text classifier basedupon some of the derived linguistic fea-tures (Basili et al, 2000a) (lemmas, POStags and proper nouns)The results are then input to the eventmatcher that by means of the discourse in-terpreter (Humphreys et al, 1998) derive theobjective representation.
As discussed in sec-tion 3.1, coreferencing is a side effect of thediscourse interpretation (Humphreys et al,1998).
It is based on the multilingual domainmodel where relevant events are described andnominal concepts represented.The overall architecture is highly modularand open to load balancing activity as well asto adaptation and porting.
The communica-tion interfaces among the MS and EM com-ponents as well as among the AEs and the M-AE processors are specified via XML DTDs.This allows for user-friendly uploading of aback-end database with the detected materialas well as the easy design and management ofthe front-end databases (available for tempo-rary tasks, like event matching after MS).
Allthe servers are objects in a distributed archi-tecture within a CORBA environment.
Thecurrent version includes the linguistic proces-sors (MS and EM) for all the three languages.The English and Italian linguistic processorsare fully object oriented modules based onEnglishMSSpanishMSItalianMSEnglishAESpanishAEItalianAEnews ObjectiveRepresentation Monolingual LinksMultilingual LinksEnglishEMSpanishEMItalianEMDomainModelELISLIItLIMulti-LingualAuthoringEngineLanguage ProcessorsFigure 1: Namic ArchitectureJava.
They integrate libraries written in C,C++, Prolog, and Perl for specific functional-ities (e.g.
parsing) running under a WindowsNT platform.
The Spanish linguistic proces-sor shares the discourse interpreter and thetext classifier with the other modules, whilethe morpho syntactic component is currentlya Unix server based on Perl.
The use of a dis-tributed architecture under CORBA alloweda flexible solution to its integration into theoverall architecture.
The servers can be in-stantiated in multiple copies throughout thenetwork if the amount of required computa-tion exceeds the capability of a current con-figuration.
As the workload of a news streamis not easily predictable, distribution and dy-namic load balancing is the only realistic ap-proach.4 Discussion and Future WorkThe above sections have provided the out-line of a general NLP-based approach to auto-matic authoring.
The emphasis given to tra-ditional capabilities of Information Extractiondepends on the relevance of news content inthe target Web service scenarios as well ason their inherent multilinguality.
The bet-ter is the generalisation provided by the IEcomponent, the higher is the independencefrom the text source language.
As a result,IE is here seen as a natural approach to cross-lingual hypertextual authoring.
Other worksin this area make extensive use of traditionalIR techniques (e.g.
full text search) or relyon already traced (i.e.
manually coded) hy-perlinks (e.g.
(Chakrabarti et al, 1998; Klein-berg, 1999)).
The suggested NAMIC architec-ture exploits linguistic capabilities for deriv-ing entirely original (ex novo) resources, overdynamic, previously unreleased, streams of in-formation.The result is a large-scale multilingual NLPapplication capitalising existing methods andresources within an advanced software engi-neering process.
The use of a distributedJava/CORBA architecture makes the systemvery attractive for its scalability and adaptiv-ity.
It results in a very complex (but realis-tic) NLP architecture.
Its organisation (lexi-cal interfaces with respect to the multilingualontology) makes it very well suited for cus-tomisation and porting to large domains.
Al-though the current version is a prototype, itrealises the complete set of core functionali-ties, including the main IE steps and the dis-tributed Java/CORBA layer.It is worth noticing that a set of extensionsare made viable within the proposed architec-ture.
A first line is the extension of the avail-able multilingual lexical knowledge.
The Dis-course Model can be used to better reflect on-tological relationships within a particular do-main.
These relationships could be examinedto confirm known word sense usage as wellas to postulate/propose novel word sense us-age.
Using the mechanism for the addition ofevents (as categorised by verbs) to the worldmodel, users can specify new events which canbe added to the IE system, to achieve UserDriven IE, and deliver a form of adaptive in-formation extraction.The instantiated domain models can bethus used as a basis for ontological resourceexpansion as a form of adaptive process.For example, the stored instantiations of dis-course models within a specific domain can becompared: it may be thus possible to recog-nise new sets of events or objects which arenot currently utilised within the system.The evaluation strategy that is made possi-ble within the NAMIC consortium will makeuse of the current users (i.e.
news agencies)expertise.
The agreed evaluation methodswill provide evidence about the viability ofthe proposed large-scale IE-based approach toauthoring, as a valuable paradigm for infor-mation access.AcknowledgementsThis research is funded by the EuropeanUnion, grant number IST-1999-12392.
Wewould also like to thank all of the partnersin the NAMIC consortium.ReferencesR.
Basili, A. Moschitti, and M.T.
Pazienza.
2000a.Language sensitive text classification.
In Inproceeding of 6th RIAO Conference (RIAO2000), Content-Based Multimedia InformationAccess, Coll ge de France, Paris, France.R.
Basili, M.T.
Pazienza, and M. Vindigni.
2000b.Corpus-driven learning of event recognitionrules.
In Proc.
of Machine Learning for Infor-mation Extraction workshop, held jointly withthe ECAI2000, Berlin, Germany.R.
Basili, M.T.
Pazienza, and F.M.
Zanzotto.2000c.
Customizable modular lexicalized pars-ing.
In Proc.
of the 6th International Workshopon Parsing Technology, IWPT2000, Trento,Italy.S.
Chakrabarti, B. Dom, D. Gibson, J. Kleinberg,P.
Raghavan, and S. Rajagopalan.
1998.
Auto-matic resource compilation by analysing hyper-link structure and associated text.
In Proceed-ings of the 7th International World Wide WebConference, Brisbane, Australia.C.
Cunningham, R. Gaizauskas, K. Humphreys,and Y. Wilks.
1999.
Experience with a lan-guage engineering architecture: 3 years of gate.In Proceedings of the AISB?99 Workshop onReference Architectures and Data Standards forNLP, Edinburgh, UK.J.
Daude, L. Padro, and G. Rigau.
2000.
Map-ping wordnets using structural information.In Proceedings of the 38th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational LinguisticsACL?00, Hong Kong, China.R.
Gaizauskas and K. Humphreys.
1996.
Xi:A simple prolog-based language for cross-classification and inheritance.
In Proceedings ofthe 6th International Conference on ArtificialIntelligence: Methodologies, Systems, Applica-tions (AIMSA96), pages 86?95.R.
Gaizauskas and Y. Wilks.
1998.
InformationExtraction: Beyond Document Retrieval.
Jour-nal of Documentation, 54(1):70?105.J.
Gonzalo, F. Verdejo, I. Chugur, and J. Cigar-ran.
1998.
Indexing with wordnet synsetscan improve text retrieval.
In Proceedings ofthe COLING/ACL?98 Workshop on Usage ofWordNet for NLP, Montreal, Canada.K.
Humphreys, R. Gaizauskas, S. Azzam,C.
Huyck, B. Mitchell, H. Cunningham, andY.
Wilks.
1998.
University of sheffield: De-scription of the lasie-ii system as used for muc-7.In Proceedings of the Seventh Message Under-standing Conferences (MUC-7).
Morgan Kauf-man.
Available at http://www.saic.com.Jon M. Kleinberg.
1999.
Authoritative sourcesin a hyperlinked environment.
Journal of theACM, 46(5):604?632.G.
Miller.
1990.
Five papers on wordnet.
Inter-national Journal of Lexicography, 4(3).1998.
Proceedings of the Seventh Message Under-standing Conference (MUC-7).
Morgan Kauf-man.
Available at http://www.saic.com.M.T.
Pazienza, editor.
1997.
Information Ex-traction.
A Multidisciplinary Approach to anEmerging Information Technology.
Number1299 in LNAI.
Springer-Verlag, Heidelberg,Germany.P.
Vossen.
1998.
EuroWordNet: A Multilin-gual Database with Lexical Semantic Networks.Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht.
