Reconciling Initiative and Discourse StructureSusan E. Strayer and Peter A. HeemanDepartment of Computer Science and EngineeringOGI School of Science and EngineeringOregon Health & Science University20000 NW Walker Rd Beaverton, OR 97006, USAsusan strayer@yahoo.com heeman@cse.ogi.eduAbstractIn this paper we consider how ini-tiative is managed in dialogue.
Wepropose that initiative is subordi-nate to the intentional hierarchy ofdiscourse structure.
In dialoguesfrom the TRAINS corpus we ndthat inside a segment initiated byone speaker, the other speaker onlymakes two types of contributions: aspecial kind of acknowledgment wecall forward acknowledgments, andshort contributions that add contentto the segment.
The proposal hasimportant implications for dialoguemanagement: a system only needsto model intentional structure, fromwhich initiative follows.1 IntroductionThe dialogue manager of a spoken languagesystem is responsible for determining whatcontributions a system can make and when itcan make them.
The question is, what shouldthe dialogue manager pay attention to in or-der to accomplish this?
Two areas of researchhave shaped our understanding of what hap-pens in dialogue: research in dialogue struc-ture and in mixed initiative.Grosz and Sidner (1986) proposed a theoryof discourse structure to account for why anutterance was said and what was meant by it.Their theory has three components: linguis-tic structure, intentional structure and atten-tional state.
Intentions are key to accountingfor discourse structure, dening discourse co-herence, and \providing a coherent conceptu-alization of the term `discourse' itself."
Theintentional structure describes the purpose ofthe discourse as a whole, and the relation-ship of the purpose of each discourse seg-ment to the main discourse purpose or otherdiscourse segment purposes.
All utteranceswithin a segment contribute to the purposeof that segment.
This theory, however, doesnot comment on initiative within the segment.Nor does it specify when and how speakersshould start a segment or end the current one.Hence, it underspecies what speakers can doin dialogue.Research in initiative works to account forwhich speaker is driving the conversation atany given point.
For example, in a question-answer pair, the speaker asking the questionis said to have the initiative (Whittaker andStenton, 1988; Walker and Whittaker, 1990;Novick and Sutton, 1997).
Whittaker andStenton segmented dialogues where initiativeshifts from one speaker to the other.
Theyfound that initiative "did not alternate fromspeaker to speaker on a turn by turn basis,but that there were long sequences of turns inwhich [initiative] remained with one speaker.In a mixed initiative system, the dialoguemanager needs to track initiative in order toknow when the system should add signicantcontent, and when it should let the user takeover.
However, no theory has oered a goodaccount of why a speaker would want to takethe initiative, or keep it once they have it.In the rest of this paper we rst describeprevious work in discourse structure and ininitiative and describe our coding of them.Next, we explore the relationship between dis-course structure and initiative.
As previousstudies have found (Whittaker and Stenton,1988; Walker and Whittaker, 1990), there isa close correlation between them, but the re-lationship is not direct.
We then explore howinitiative can shift within a subdialogue andnd two types of contributions that a speakercan make in a discourse segment: a specialkind of acknowledgment we call forward ac-knowledgment, and short contributions thatadd content to the segment.
We propose thatinitiative is subordinate to intentional struc-ture.
Additionally, our proposal is better ableto account for question-answer pairs and howinitiative returns to the original speaker afteran embedded subdialogue.
It will have impor-tant implications for dialogue management: asystem only needs to model intentional struc-ture, from which initiative follows.2 Discourse Structure andInitiative AnalysisOur proposal for managing initiative buildson two main areas of research, discourse struc-ture and initiative.
We start by discussingthe work of Grosz and Sidner (1986), whichties speaker's intentions to linguistic struc-ture, then discuss the work of Whittaker, etal.
in initiative.
We introduce our codingof three dialogues in the TRAINS corpus,a corpus of human-human task-oriented di-alogues, in which two participants work to-gether to formulate a plan involving the man-ufacture and transportation of goods (Allen etal., 1995; Heeman and Allen, 1995).
In thesedialogues, one speaker is the user (u), who hasa goal to solve, and the other speaker is thesystem (s), who knows the detailed informa-tion involved in how long it takes to ship andmanufacture goods.2.1 Discourse StructureDiscourse structure is used to analyze dia-logue from the top down, starting with thepurpose of the discourse as a whole, then thepurpose of each discourse segment, in order tounderstand how each utterance ts into thedialogue.
The theory of discourse structuredeveloped by Grosz and Sidner (1986) pro-poses that discourse structure is made up ofthree components: linguistic structure, inten-tional structure, and attentional state.
Ourwork focuses on the rst two components.The linguistic structure is a hierarchical seg-mentation of the dialogue into discourse seg-ments.
Segment boundaries are identied bychanges in tense and aspect, pause lengths,speech rate, and discourse markers, such as\anyway," \by the way," \so," and \rst ofall."
The intentional structure is a hierarchyof segment purposes.
Each discourse segmenthas a purpose, and the purpose of each seg-ment contributes to the purpose of its parent.Intentional structure is key to understandingwhat the discourse is about and explains itscoherency.Subdialogue coding: In our study, therst author segmented dialogues into subdi-alogues based on the purpose of the utter-ance (Smith and Gordon, 1997; Traum andHinkelman, 1992).
We established two classesof subdialogues: task subdialogues, segmentsthat describe subtasks in the dialogue, andclarication subdialogues, local segments thatclarify a gap in understanding, either to re-quest missing information or to supply miss-ing information to the other speaker.
The seg-ment initiator gives the rst utterance in thesegment and establishes its purpose.1Theleft side of Figure 1 gives an example of adiscourse segment (or subdialogue) with twoembedded clarication subdialogues, and thesegment initiator for each subdialogue.
Gen-erally, we found the dialogue structure in thedialogues we analyzed to be quiteat, withfew embedded structures.
Typically, tasksubdialogues occurred at the same level, andclarication subdialogues were embedded ina task subdialogue, as seen in the example inFigure 1.2.2 InitiativeInitiative is held by the speaker who is driv-ing the conversation at any given point in theconversation (Whittaker and Stenton, 1988,1The segment initiator corresponds to the initi-ating conversational participant (ICP) of Grosz andSidner's theory.
The non-initiator corresponds to theother conversational participant (OCP).SegmentInitiator Speaker Utterance Initiativeu u where pick up um one of the tankers there umph- with uh oranges thatwill be usedus mm-hmu for the t- us s okay to move the oranges we need a boxcar su okayu we'll bring a boxcar from Elmira with the engine three us okayu um so we'll get to Corning with the engine three and the boxcar will getto Corning and we'll pick up uhuu u can a tanker and a boxcar be pulled by an engine us yesu so okay so we'll pick up a tank of uh the tanker of OJ orange- oranges us ok- rightFigure 1: Example of Discourse Structure and Initiative Segments (d921-5.2: utt25-utt36).Walker and Whittaker, 1990; Novick and Sut-ton, 1997).
It has been used to analyze dis-course from the bottom up, starting withutterances.
We start with adjacency pairs(Scheglo and Sacks, 1973), which consist of arst part, uttered by one of the speakers, anda second part, uttered by the other.
The rstpart sets up expectations for the second part,and hence the speaker of the rst part can beviewed as being in control of the dialogue dur-ing both parts of the adjacency pair.
Belowwe give the annotation scheme used by Whit-taker, et al (Whittaker and Stenton, 1988;Walker and Whittaker, 1990) for annotatinginitiative based on utterance type.Assertions: Declarative utterances used tostate facts.
The speaker has initiative,except when it is a response to a ques-tion.Questions: Utterances intended to elicit in-formation from others.
The speaker hasinitiative, except when it follows a ques-tion or command.Commands: Intended to induce actions inothers.
The speaker has initiative.Prompts: Utterances with no propositionalcontent (e.g., \yeah," \okay").
These ut-terances do not exhibit initiative.Whittaker and Stenton used the initiativecodings as a basis for segmenting dialogues.They used dialogues between an expert anda client about diagnosing and repairing soft-ware faults.
They found that not only didinitiative pass back and forth between thespeakers (unlike single-initiative dialogues),but that initiative often stayed with a speakerfor on average of eight speaker turns.Whittaker and Stenton (1988) looked at thecorrelation of control boundaries to discoursemarkers, and Walker and Whittaker (1990)looked at anaphoric reference.
These are thesame kinds of linguistic evidence that Groszand Sidner (1986) said marks discourse seg-ment boundaries.
In fact, Walker and Whit-taker claimed that initiative segments are thediscourse segments of Grosz and Sidner's the-ory, with the speaker with initiative being theinitiator of the segment, who establishes thediscourse segment purpose.
However, they ac-knowledged that \there can be topic shiftswithout change of initiation, change of [ini-tiative] without topic shift."
In fact, whenwe look at the dialogue excerpt given in Fig-ure 1, we see that the initiative segmentationidentied the rst subdialogue, but not thesecond.
However, Walker and Whittaker didnot specify the relationship between initiativeand discourse structure.Initiative coding In our study, the rstauthor coded initiative using the annotationscheme of Whittaker and Stenton (1988).
Theright side of Figure 1 shows the annotation forutterances where speakers demonstrate initia-tive.
For utterances where the speaker doesTable 1: Correlation of Segment BoundariesInitiative vs Segment Initiator Initiative vsSubdialogue vs Subdialogue Segment InitiatorBoundaries 113 113 46Hits 47 46 41Misses 66 67 5False Positives 35 0 41Recall 42% 41% 89%Precision 57% 100% 50%not demonstrate initiative, initiative is said tobelong to the last speaker that demonstratedit.
Hence, when the system uttered \mm-hm" in the second utterance, which doesnot demonstrate initiative, initiative does notchange from the user.
We also show initia-tive segment boundaries, which are identiedby changes in initiative.
Here, we see thatinitiative swings back and forth between thesystem and the user several times, leading tothree initiative segments.3 Relationship between Initiativeand Discourse StructureWalker and Whittaker (1990) suggested thatchanges in initiative correspond to changesin discourse structure, but they did not de-termine the exact relationship between them.In this section we analyze the dierences be-tween initiative segments and discourse struc-ture for three dialogues from the TRAINScorpus.
We nd that there is a close rela-tionship, but not a direct one.3.1 Segment Boundary ComparisonIn this section, we compare initiative bound-aries (where initiative shifts from one speakerto the next) to subdialogue boundaries (wherea new subdialogue begins) using recall andprecision.2An initiative boundary is scoredas a hit if there is a corresponding subdia-logue boundary.
It is scored as a false posi-tive if there is no subdialogue boundary.
Asubdialogue boundary is scored as a miss ifit has no initiative boundary.
For example,2Recall = Hits / (Hits + Misses )Precision = Hits / ( Hits + False Positives )in Figure 1, there are two hits (the bound-ary between the 3rd and 4th utterances andthe boundary between the 5th and 6th utter-ances), two misses (the boundary between the8th and 9th utterances and the boundary be-tween the 10th and 11th utterances), and nofalse positives.
The second column of Table1, \Initiative versus Subdialogues", gives theresults.
We see that both recall and precisionare very low for initiative boundaries relativeto discourse boundaries.
However, compar-ing initiative segments to discourse segmentsis not fair.
The misses in Figure 1 should beexpected since the initiator of the last subdi-alogue is the same as the higher level subdia-logue.To show the eect of the unfairness, wecontrast changes in segment initiator to dis-course segment boundaries in the third col-umn of Table 1, \Segment Initiator versusSubdialogue."
Not surprisingly, we obtaineda precision of 100%: by denition, the seg-ment initiator is only set at the beginning ofeach discourse segment.
However, we only ob-tained a recall rate of 41%.
This means only41% of discourse segment boundaries are ini-tiated by a dierent speaker.
We should notexpect these boundaries to have a change ininitiative, since there is no change in segmentinitiator.
A fair comparison should contrastchanges in initiative only to changes in dis-course segment initiator.
The results of doingthis is shown in the fourth column, \Initia-tive versus Segment Initiator."
Here we seemuch better results for recall; however, pre-cision is still very low.
We will return to thelow precision rates in Section 4.Table 2: Initiative Held by Segment InitiatorClarication TaskTotal Subdialogues SubdialoguesSubdialogues 91 45 46First utterance 91 (100%) 45 (100%) 46 (100%)Whole subdialogue 77 (85%) 45 (100%) 32 (70%)SegmentInitiator Initiative Speaker Utteranceu u u okay so we have to take oranges from Corning andbring them to Elmiras rightu u and then back to Bath bys s + by noon +u u + mid- + by noonFigure 2: Forward acknowledgment (d92a-5.2: utt14-18).3.2 Shifts Within Discourse SegmentsAlthough the recall rate in the last columnof Table 1 is very good, it shows there aresome changes in discourse segment initiatorthat are not matched by changes in initia-tive.
The question is, does this happen at thebeginning of the segment, the end, or in themiddle?
We looked at how often the segmentinitiator is the same as the speaker with ini-tiative for the rst utterance in each discoursesegment.
As seen in Table 2, this does give usa 100% correct rate, meaning that a discoursesegment can only be initiated by the speakeralso taking the initiative.
This is not unex-pected, since the speaker needs to contributesomething new, otherwise it would not countas the beginning of a new discourse segment.However, the initiative does not always staywith the initiator for the entire segment, asseen in the last row of Table 2.4 Reconciling Initiative InsideDiscourse SegmentsThe rst utterance of each discourse segmentshows perfect agreement between the initiatorof the segment and speaker with initiative, asseen in Table 2.
But what happens duringthe course of the segment?
In this section wefocus on subdialogues where the non-initiatormakes a contribution and the initiator nishesthe segment.4.1 Forward AcknowledgmentsIn the TRAINS corpus there are timeswhen listeners were so synchronized with thespeaker that could they anticipate what thespeaker was going to say and ll it in be-fore the he said it.
Figure 2 gives an exam-ple, where the system lled in \by noon" forthe user.
Typical acknowledgments are utter-ances that indicate understanding of an ut-terance made by the other speaker and donot contribute content.
Our phenomena offorward acknowledgments also indicate under-standing, but of what the other speaker isabout to say, even before he says it.
By ll-ing in what the other speaker was about tosay, the speaker indicates understanding andalso moves the conversation forward.
In bothexamples of forward acknowledgments in thethree dialogues, the initiator nished the ut-terance of the other speaker.Forward acknowledgments are coded asdemonstrating initiative, because they addcontent.
However, this initiative is subordi-nate to the initiative of the main segment, sothey are show as being embedded in the par-ent segment.SegmentInitiator Initiative Speaker Utteranceu u u and then take those uh t- to Dan- and then go toDansvilles s so that's + uh let's see and + that's one one more houru + and +u u yeah and we can un- we cans s drop o at + the +u u + drop + o th- that boxcar and take welldr-u yeah drop o the boxcar + of +s s + and then + take two emptyonesu u right two empty ones down to Avons + oh +u u + and + pick up the the bananass rightFigure 3: Other contribution (d93-19.5, utt83-utt93)4.2 Other-ContributionsThe rest of the utterances coded with initia-tive made by the non-initiator of the segmentwere more substantial contributions.
Here,the speaker added content to the discoursesegment that is not predicted from the ini-tiator's speech.
We refer to these as other-contributions, and they often occur where thetwo speakers are closely collaborating and arehighly synchronized.3In Figure 3, we show adialogue excerpt in which the two speakersare so closely synchronized that they pick upparts of each others utterances and build onit.
Initiative shifts back and forth between thetwo speakers, but, in fact, we think this phe-nomenon of other-contributions is related tothe phenomena that Schirin (1987) referredto as shared turns.4.3 Eect on InitiativeTable 3 shows what happens to initiative af-ter the non-initiator makes a contributiondemonstrating initiative.
There were 25 of3It is interesting to note the amount of overlappingspeech (marked with a '+') in these examples of other-contributions.
It might be the case that when speak-ers are highly synchronized, they are more bound toloosen the restrictions on turn-taking.
This is some-thing we hope to investigate in the future.Table 3: After Contribution by Non-InitiatorContributions by Non-Initiator 25New subdialogue 7Embedded subdialogue 1Initiative returns to segment initiator 14Initiative held by non-initiator 3these cases.
In 7 of them, the next utter-ance demonstrating initiative occurred in anew subdialogue, and in one case it occurredin an embedded subdialogue.
We focus on theremaining 17 cases where the next utterancedemonstrating initiative occurred within thesame discourse segment.
In 14 of these, initia-tive returned to the segment initiator, usuallyin the very next utterance (13 out of 14).
Inonly 3 cases does initiative stay with the non-initiator.
This result is contrary to previoustheories of initiative (Walker and Whittaker,1990; Chu-Carroll and Brown, 1997), whichwould expect initiative to stay with the non-initiator.4.4 DiscussionForward acknowledgments and other-contributions are exceptions to the generalrule that initiative tends to reside with thesame speaker.
Based on the results of oursmall preliminary study, we propose thatinitiative is subordinate to the intentionalstructure of the discourse theory of Groszand Sidner.
Initiative is held by the segmentinitiator.
The non-initiator can make utter-ances that contribute to the purpose of thecurrent discourse segment, namely forwardacknowledgments and other-contributions,but initiative remains with the segmentinitiator.
Hence, initiative does not need tobe tracked, because it is held by the initiatorof the discourse segment.This proposal allows either speaker to con-tribute to the purpose of a discourse segment,which accounts not only for forward acknowl-edgments and other-contributions, but alsocan account for embedded subdialogues andthe answer to a question in a question-answerpair.
It can be argued that embedded subdi-alogues initiated by either speaker contributeto the purpose of its parent subdialogue.
Forexample, in Figure 1, the subdialogue initi-ated by the system (s) contributes to the pur-pose of the parent subdialogue by pointingout a problem with the user's plan to moveoranges, which the user then adjusts.
Theclarication subdialogue initiated by the user(u) checks that the plan the user is developingwill work, and so it also supports the generalpurpose of developing the plan.The proposal also can also be used to sim-plify how initiative is used in question-answerpairs.
Whittaker and Stenton (1988) assignedinitiative to the speaker of statements, exceptwhen it was the answer to a question, in whichcase it belonged to the speaker asking thequestion.
In our view, a question-answer pairis a subdialogue with the initiative belongingto the questioner.
The answer is coded withinitiative, but it is an other-contribution, andso this initiative is subordinate to the ques-tioner's initiative.Other researchers have struggled withstructure in initiative.
Chu-Carroll andBrown (1997) referred to initiative as dialogueinitiative, and proposed a second level, taskinitiative, to model who is adding domainactions.
In contrast to our proposal, whichmakes initiative subordinate to intentionalstructure, they proposed that dialogue ini-tiative is subordinate to their task initiative.Hence, their model could incorrectly pre-dict who has initiative after the non-initiatormakes a contribution.
As was shown in Ta-ble 3, after the non-initiator makes an other-contribution within a subdialogue, generallyinitiative returns to the segment initiator ofthe subdialogue, instead of staying with thenon-initiator.
Chu-Carroll and Brown alsoused task initiative to model how cooperativea system should be.
With novice users, thesystem would tend to have task initiative andthus make domain actions, but not so with ex-perts.
This is similar to Smith and Gordon's(1997) use of four levels of initiative, whichset how much initiative was given to the sys-tem and how much was given to the user inone of four levels.
Although a system needsto reason about how helpful it needs to be, itis unclear whether this can be done througha single variable that is tied to dialogue ini-tiative.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we have proposed that initia-tive is subordinate to intentional structure indialogue.
We have backed up this claim by ex-amining utterances that demonstrate initia-tive made by the non-initiator of the discoursesegment.
We found that after these utter-ances, initiative returns to the segment initia-tor in almost all cases.
The reconciliation ofinitiative and discourse segments means thatwe now understand how initiative and dia-logue level intentions are related and have aclearer picture of how both participants cancontribute to discourse intentions.Based on our results, initiative in itself doesnot need to be tracked.
Initiative belongs tothe speaker who started the current discoursesegment.
Therefore, a dialogue manager onlyneeds to model intentional structure.6 Future WorkOur preliminary study was based on a smallset of data coded by one of the authors.
Plansfor future work include annotating more dia-logues with multiple coders to ensure the re-sults reported here are reproducible.
We alsointend to analyze what happens to initiativeafter an embedded subdialogue is completedto verify that initiative stays with the seg-ment initiator of the parent segment.
We alsowant to better understand the few cases wherestays with the non-initiator (the three cases inTable 3).In addition to more TRAINS dialogues,we will code dialogues from other corpora,such as Maptask (Anderson et al, 1991) andSwitchboard (Godfrey et al, 1992).
Thiswill help ensure that we do not introduce id-iosyncrasies of the TRAINS corpus into ourtheory.
Rather than just code initiative, wewill use the DAMSL annotation scheme (Coreand Allen, 1997).
This scheme annotatesthe forward and backward-looking functions ofeach utterance, from which initiative can bederived.
Reliable intercoder agreement hasbeen obtained with this coding scheme.
Forcoding discourse structure, several schemeshave been proposed (Passonneau and Litman,1997; Flammia, 1998; Nakatani et al, 1995;Traum and Nakatani, 1999) ranging from cod-ingat segmentation on monologues to hier-archical segmentation of dialogues.
We willuse these annotation schemes as a foundation,and monitor our annotation results to ensurewe achieve good intercoder reliability.Our theory necessitates that we better un-derstand the structure of discourse, how it isbuilt, and the actions and rules that a dis-course manager can use to aect the discoursestructure.
We also need to understand thereasoning process that determines whether aparticipant will make an other-contribution orstart a new subdialogue.
Since dialogue isa collaborative eort (Cohen and Levesque,1994; Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs, 1986), we alsoneed to explore how the participants collabo-rate on the discourse structure.7 AcknowledgmentsThe authors gratefully acknowledge fundingfrom the Intel Research Council.
The au-thors also thank David Traum and membersof the Centers for Spoken Language Under-standing and Human Computer Communica-tion at OGI for helpful discussions and com-ments.ReferencesJ.
Allen, L. Schubert, G. Ferguson, P. Heeman,C.
Hwang, T. Kato, M. Light, N. Martin, B.Miller, M. Poesio, and D. Traum.
1995.
TheTrains project: A case study in building a con-versational planning agent.
Journal of Experi-mental and Theoretical AI, 7:7{48.A.
Anderson, M. Bader, E. Bard, E. Boyle, G. Do-herty, S. Garrod, S. Isard, J. Kowtko, J. McAl-lister, J. Miller, C. Sotillo, H. Thompson, andR.
Weinert.
1991.
The HCRC map task corpus.Language and Speech, 34(4):351{366.J.
Chu-Carroll and M. Brown.
1997.
Trackinginitiative in collaborative dialogue interaction.In Proceedings of the 35th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics,Madrid, Spain, July.H.
Clark and D. Wilkes-Gibbs.
1986.
Referringas a collaborative process.
Cognition, 22:1{39.P.
Cohen and H. Levesque.
1994.
Preliminariesto a collaborative model of dialogue.
SpeechCommunications, 15(3{4):265{274, December.M.
Core and J. Allen.
1997.
Coding dialogs withthe DAMSL annotation scheme.
In Workingnotes of the AAAI Fall Symposium on Com-municative Action in Humans and Machines.G.
Flammia.
1998.
Discourse segmentation ofspoken dialogue: an empirical approach.
Doc-toral dissertation, Department of Electrical andComputer Science, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology.J.
Godfrey, E. Holliman, and J. McDaniel.
1992.SWITCHBOARD: Telephone speech corpus forresearch and development.
In Proceedings ofthe International Conference on Audio, Speechand Signal Processing (ICASSP), pages 517{520.B.
Grosz and C. Sidner.
1986.
Attention, inten-tions, and the structure of discourse.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 12(3):175{204.P.
Heeman and J. Allen.
1995.
The Trains spo-ken dialog corpus.
CD-ROM, Linguistics DataConsortium, April.C.
Nakatani, B. Grosz, D. Ahn, and J. Hirschberg.1995.
Instructions for annotating discourse.Technical Report 21-95, Center for Researchin Computing Technology, Harvard University,Cambridge MA, September.D.
Novick and S. Sutton.
1997.
What ismixed-initiative interaction?
In 1997 AAAISpring Symposium on Computational Modelsfor Mixed Initiative Interaction, pages 24{26,Stanford University, March.
AAAI Press.R.
Passonneau and D. Litman.
1997.
Discoursesegmentation by human and automated means.Computational Linguistics, 103{139.E.
Scheglo and H. Sacks.
1973.
Opening up clos-ings.
Semiotica, 7:289{327.D.
Schirin.
1987.
Discourse Markers.
Cam-bridge University Press, New York.R.
Smith and S. Gordon.
1997.
Eects of vari-able initiative on linguistic behavior in human-computer spoken natural language dialogue.Computational Linguistics, 23(1):141{168.D.
Traum and E. Hinkelman.
1992.
Conversationacts in task-oriented spoken dialogue.
Compu-tational Intelligence, 8(3):575{599.
Special Is-sue on Non-literal language.D.
Traum and C. Nakatani.
1999.
A two-level ap-proach to coding dialogue for discourse struc-ture: Activities of the 1998 working groupon higher-level structures.
In Proceedings ofthe ACL'99 Workshop Towards Standards andTools for Discourse Tagging, pages 101{108,June.M.
Walker and S. Whittaker.
1990.
Mixed initia-tive in dialogue: An investigation into discoursesegmentation.
In Proceedings of the 28th An-nual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 70{78.S.
Whittaker and P. Stenton.
1988.
Cues and con-trol in expert client dialogues.
In Proceedingsof the 26th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 123{130.
