Directional PPs and Reference Frames in DRTDidier MaillatOxford University and Fribourg UniversityEnglish Linguistics Dept.Mis?ricordeCH-1700 Fribourg, Switzerlanddidier.maillat@lincoln.ox.ac.ukAbstractIn this paper, I will argue that the well-known ambiguity of directional prepo-sitions between the intrinsic and rela-tive readings is not lexical, but can beinterpreted as a framework assignmentambiguity of the type observed in thetemporal domain.
A DRT semanticswill then be constructed around a uni-fied model of framework assignmentwhich can be applied across the boardto all three universal frame types.1 IntroductionA great deal of energy has been spent on thesemantic analysis of temporal relations within asentence and beyond that, between sentences.Crucially, it has been a well-established andintensively studied fact that eventualities (orevents) are interpreted within a temporal frame-work, i.e.
a temporal reference frame with re-spect to which the temporal relations whichobtain between those events are interpreted (e.g.Reichenbach 1947, Kamp & Reyle 1993).
Forinstance, a past tense verb tends, in the absenceof any other external clue, to be temporally in-terpreted with respect to the time of utterance.That is to say that a typical semantic contribu-tion of a simple past is assessed on a two-dimensional frame centred on the time of utter-ance, as is the case in sentence (1), where thepast tense is understood as encoding a prece-dence relation between the event described bythe sentence and the time of utterance n.(1) Alice took a walk by the river.Notice that this is not always the case.
In alarger discursive context, a speaker can controlsome of these parameters, for instance by em-bedding a simple past within a larger narrativesequence.
In this configuration, a simple past isthen often interpreted as following the time de-noted by the preceding simple past.
So, that ifwe insert (1) within a larger discursive environ-ment, the past tense of took gets interpreted in adifferent way:(2) Alice slept in that morning.
After a heftybreakfast, she needed some exercise.
She[Alice] took a walk by the river.Although it is still the case that the action de-scribed by sentence (1) is located at a time twhich precedes n, the whole context of (2) addsa further constraint to the interpretation of thepast tense in took as it implies a narrative se-quence by virtue of which, t has to follow ?
inthe temporal dimension ?
t?, the time at whichAlice had her breakfast.In contrast, similar facts in the spatial domainhave been barely touched upon by the semanti-cists?
community.
In particular, although theexistence of spatial reference frames has beenascertained again and again, very little has beendone in order to show how, e.g.
spatial adverbsor spatial prepositional expressions interact witha spatial framework in order to yield a givenmeaning.
Part of the failure to come up with asatisfactory account can be explained by therelative difficulty to tell the semantic from thepragmatic contributions.
It is the goal of thispaper to present a formalism that addressesthese issues and tries to draw a line betweenwhat is encoded and what is contextually de-rived.
In order to do so, I will focus on a set offramework-sensitive PPs, namely directional (orprojective) PPs: to the left/right of, in front of /behind, above /below and cardinal directions.Researchers (see for instance Levinson 1996)have shown that human languages make use ofonly ?
and up to ?
three universal referenceframes in order to express spatial relations.
Allthree of them are instantiated in Indo-Europeanlanguages.
Thus, a single spatial configurationcan be expressed in three different ways in theselanguages, depending on which reference frameis activated.
All three examples below are to beinterpreted as referring to a unique spatial set-ting.
(3) Le chat est ?
l?est de la voiture(4) the cat  is   east   of the carABSOLUTE FRAMEWORK(5) Le chat est derri?re la voiture [with re-spect to the car](6) the cat  is   behind  the carINTRINSIC FRAMEWORK(7) Le chat est ?
droite de la voiture [with re-spect to the speaker?s viewpoint](8) the cat  is   on the right of the carRELATIVE FRAMEWORKCrucially, while (5) and (7) ?
in the relevantreadings ?
are cases of intrinsic and relativeencoding, respectively, it should be clear thatboth sentences fit equally well in the otherframework.
That is to say that Indo-Europeanlanguages are systematically ambiguous be-tween the intrinsic and relative reference frames,since directional PPs can be successfully inter-preted in both frameworks.
Notice that this isalso the case in other language families as simi-lar ambiguities are observed in Japanese, Arabicand Sesotho.
Most importantly, the spatial areadenoted by each of the six directional PPs men-tioned above (i.e.
all but the cardinal directions)differs depending on the reference frame withinwhich it is interpreted.The strong claim that the present study willmake is that ?
very much in the fashion of howDRT deals with tenses or temporal adverbials ?spatial expressions, such as directional preposi-tions, can be ambiguous between several read-ings, because these expressions areunderdetermined as to how they connect withthe spatial framework.
And this choice betweenalternative computations triggers the ambiguityin (5) and (7).2 Cross-linguistic VariationAlso, despite the striking recurrence of thesefacts throughout the Indo-European languagesand other families, it should be pointed out thatsome languages display other properties.
Forinstance, Tzeltal (Mexico) and Guugu Yimithirr(Australia) rely (almost) exclusively on the ab-solute framework.
Contrary to what can be ob-served in Indo-European languages where theabsolute frame is relatively rare and used in veryrestricted contexts.
This type of cross-linguisticvariation makes up a very strong case in favourof a unified model for all three frame types.
Ifsuch a model can be constructed, the upshotwould consist in being able to account for cross-linguistic variation in terms of parametric set-up.Hausa speakers (Africa), on the other hand,do not apply the Indo-European ?mirror?
con-figuration when they construct a relative frame.In such a language, a tree?s front is not facingtoward the speaker, but away from her/him (i.e.in a ?tandem?
configuration).
A suitable modelwill have to be flexible enough in order to cap-ture this second type of parametric variation in asatisfactory way too.3 What?s in a framework?A first step towards a full understanding ofthe phenomena described above consists in athorough analysis of the properties of the threeframeworks.
In fact, although superficially theyappear to be fairly different, the three frame-works are very much alike.
In order to see thesimilarity between them, let us start by assuminga set of conceptual primitives that will make upa spatial framework in the proposed model.Under the current view, all three frameworkscombine three primitives:(i) a set of three orthogonal axes (frontal,lateral and vertical) in a Euclideanspace(ii) a point of origin(iii) an orientation vectorWhere the orientation vector determines theorientation of the axial system by fixing thedirection and orientation of the frontal axis (seebelow for a detailed explanation of this process).According to this model any spatial frame-work is uniquely and sufficiently defined bymeans of these three elements, only two ofwhich are variables, viz.
(ii) and (iii) 1.
In otherwords, any spatial reference frame is fully de-1 Strictly speaking, a third parameter is needed in order tofully determine such a space, but, for brevity?s sake, I willgloss over the variability of this third parameter and as-sume that gravity fixes the vertical axis (see Levelt 1996for further discussion of the issue).termined if one knows the value of its origin andthat of its orientation vector.
This means thatthis is all that is needed in order to evaluate a)the truth-value of a directional expressions inthat reference frame and b) to select an appro-priate directional expressions for that frame-work, given some spatial configuration.
Noticethat contrary to what is suggested in the litera-ture on this topic (e.g.
Zwarts & Winter 2000),the axial structure is not ?polarised?, in thesense that each axis defines a dimension (fron-tal, lateral and vertical), but the sides are leftunspecified.
In other words, the distinction be-tween, e.g.
front and back is not built into thesystem and will have to be handled at a laterstage.To pursue the analogy with the temporal do-main, the spatial framework will have to befixed, by means of assigning a value to the twoparameters origin and orientation.
Very muchlike the temporal dimension is organised aroundits origin, namely the time of utterance n inDRT.
Notice, though, that the addition of onemore dimension in the spatial domain triggersthe need for a second parameter, orientation.And as we will soon find out, a lot, if not all ofthe computation process needed to interpret adirectional preposition goes precisely into thevalue assignment for the orientation parameter.However, what we have seen so far is thesimilarity between the various frameworks, butas we illustrated earlier on, they also differ in acrucial way, which accounts for the ambiguityobserved in sentences (5) and (7).
A close scru-tiny of the three frame types reveals that theydiffer with respect to their orientation vector.Indeed the computation of the orientation vectorappears to constitute the distinguishing factorbetween the three frames as is shown in table 1.Origin OrientationAbsolute G givenIntrinsic G GRelative G VPTTable 1Table 1 illustrates that while the orientationparameter of an absolute frame is given as partof the lexical / encyclopaedic knowledge thatthe speaker has of a preposition like east of, theorientation parameter of an intrinsic frame isdefined by the properties of the ground object(G in the table).
For instance in our example (5),the functional and geometrical properties of thecar will yield the corresponding intrinsic orien-tation.
For the relative system, the framework isoriented with respect to a salient viewpoint(VPT), which often coincides with the locationof the speaker but may also differ at times.
Ta-ble 1 also sums up the facts regarding the otherparameter, namely the origin.
We see that in allcases the origin of the framework is given by theground object G (determined by the complementof P).
In other words, we can conclude that inthe present model, the type of reference frame isfully determined by the sole orientation pa-rameter, which is formally represented by avector whose origin corresponds to the point oforigin of the axial system and whose endpoint iseither lexically encoded, or depends on the in-trinsic properties of G, or coincides with a sali-ent VPT (viewpoint).
In striking contrast withthe suggestion made by Crow (1989) whomakes use of no less than 4 different variables.This, however, leaves the question of theactual denotation of directional prepositionsopen.
Building on and extending the kind ofvector geometry used above and discussed ex-tensively by O?Keefe (1996) and Zwarts &Winter (2000), the proposed analysis assumesthat a directional preposition denotes an angularrange.
Crucially, this angular range needs to befixed or anchored on a framework in order to befully specified.
The model poses that the angulartemplates are anchored on the reference frame?sorientation vector.
An obvious advantage infavour of this approach lies in the fact that itreadily accounts for the ambiguity observed in(5) and (7), in the sense that a single templatecan denote two different configurations de-pending on the value assigned to the orientationvector; hence, the ambiguity.
Figure 1 belowillustrates the kind of templates that are used inthis model (in this case, a bird?s eye view of thederri?re template).
One should point out that theangular range is calculated clockwise from theorientation vector (represented by the arrow inthe diagram).180?F-90?90?Figure 1A quick word on the actual values of the an-gular range displayed here is required.
Figure 1instantiates the maximal denotation of thepreposition derri?re.
That is to say that thistemplate covers the maximal extensional ?
andtruth-functionally correct ?
scope of the prepo-sition, but it does not reflect the optimal angularrange denoted by the preposition (but see Mail-lat 2000).One should also point out the obvious rela-tion between the proposed denotation for direc-tional PPs and the denotation suggested byKamp & Reyle for temporal adverbials headedby after and before.
Thus, they write:What the phrase after ?
does is to divide theaxis of time into two halves and to say of thedescribed eventuality that it lies in the ?upper-half?
?.
[1993:626]Clearly, the same remark applies to the typeof directional adverbials under consideration inthis paper, as Figure 1 above illustrates.
Themain difference between the two types of adver-bials comes from the dimensionality of the re-spective domains: while the temporal domain isstrictly one-dimensional, space, on the otherhand, is three-dimensional.
As a result, thepurely linear model adopted by Kamp & Reyleto handle temporal relations is not sufficientlyinformative to tackle the spatial domain.
How-ever, the kind of vector geometry chosen herecould of course be successfully applied to thetemporal domain.
Crucially, decreasing the di-mensional arity makes the angular informationabout vectors irrelevant: in a one-dimensionaldomain all vectors are parallel to one another.
Inother words, before and after are the one-dimensional equivalents of in front of  and be-hind.4 Towards a DRT ModelIn the last part of this paper, I want to look atthe kind of formalism that could handle the pro-cesses described in the previous sections.
In thatrespect, Discourse Representation Theory seemsto be quite appealing as it has been partly devel-oped in order to come to terms with similarframework phenomena in connection with thetemporal domain (Kamp & Reyle 1993 and VanEijck & Kamp 1997).CR.Derri?reTriggering configuration:?
PPP    ?derri?reChoose: Orientation point, Opt, from thefollowing items:(i) ST (?
)(ii) ST (salient VPT) & polarity isswitched to negativewhere ST() is an operator which returns thespatio-temporal ?slice?
denoted by its argument.Introduce into UK: l, l1, l2Introduce into ConK:l ?
Optl1 = ST(?
)l2 = ST(?
)l1 behind l2 & orientation vector = l2l & rela-tional vector = l2l1 & 90?<?<-90?, where ?
ob-tains between the relational vector and theorientation vectorPerhaps I should first enter a caveat regard-ing the underlying ontology of this extendedmodel.
The extension of the DRT model in or-der to account for the interpretation of direc-tional prepositional phrases requires that theontology include some sort of spatial entity.Without further explanation, I introduce loca-tions as a new type of entity.
I can only but referthe reader to the relevant literature (Aurnague1995 and Asher & Sablayrolles 1994).
An alter-native approach would have consisted in leavingout the spatial concepts and manipulating onlyexisting discourse referents with the proviso thatsome conceptual module ?
la Jackendoff and/orspatial module would have to translate the DRstructures.
Here I have opted for a slightly moreexplicit representation.The DRT element under scrutiny is the so-called construction rule for the preposition der-ri?re.
This choice emphasises the fact that theessential constituent which triggers the settingup of a spatial framework is the spatial adver-bial.
In this sense, this analysis is very much inline with the treatment of temporal adverbialsoffered in DRT.
To put it slightly differently, itis the directional preposition itself which acti-vates the frame assignment process.That being said, following the practice ofKamp & Reyle (1993), I assume that the crucialorientation parameter is encoded as an Orienta-tion Point, Opt, reminiscent of the TemporalPerspective Point and Reference Point (see alsothe register r in the dynamic version of DRTelaborated by Van Eijck & Kamp 1997).
Thischoice is pragmatic in nature and, hence, theproposed construction rule is unspecific withrespect to the selection process.
Consequently,the pragmatic orientation assignment process isappropriately encoded using the Choose opera-tion.
Below is a partial quotation, taken fromKamp & Reyle (1993:621), presenting a typicalDRS of a temporal adverbial, which relies on asimilar device.CR.Sunday[?
]Choose: Origin of Computation t??
fromthe following items:(a) n(b) the current TPpt(c) The current Rpt [?
]The proposed representation for derri?re alsomakes use of the operator ST(), which extractsthe spatio-temporal value of its argument.
To bebrief, ST() returns a set of ordered pairs of loca-tions and times (Aurnague 1995 and Asher &Sablayrolles 1994).
This step is crucial in orderto interpret sentences like(9) They danced behind the car.involving an event dance (x,e), and in which theadverbial describes the location of the wholeactivity denoted by the verb, i.e.
the dancing.With respect to the original DRT environment,one could think of ST() as being modeled on thedur() operator, which returns the temporal valueof its argument.Most of the semantic work done by thepreposition is determined by the set of condi-tions added to the discourse representationstructure.
As we can see, the representation pro-posed here is relatively explicit, and thereforeslightly at odds with standard DRT.
But as Ialready argued, this does not constitute a seriousobstacle and is meant to illustrate the wholeprocess more clearly.
In fact, this series of con-ditions simply formalises the information con-tained in the template illustrated in Figure 1,once it has been anchored on a reference frame.It says that the relational vector which obtainsbetween the Ground object and the Figure objectmust be at an angle ?
from the orientation vec-tor, where ?
is contained in the angular rangedefined above.
If one were to prefer the moreimplicit kind of representation favoured byKamp & Reyle, one should replace the last con-dition to be introduced in ConK with the fol-lowing one:[?]
l1 behind l2 & orientation vector = l2l &relational vector = l2l1In brief, the semantics of the preposition re-quires that the figure object be within a deter-mined angular range.
Figure 2 below illustratesthe kind of calculations needed in order to assessthe truth-value of a directional prepositionalexpression.180?F-90?90?Figure 2RelationalvectorOrientationvectorGroundFigureViewpointAs we can see, the angle between the Orienta-tion vector and the Relational vector must bewithin the given range for the prepositionalphrase to be true.Although Figure 2 illustrates a case of rela-tive framework; hence, the ?Viewpoint?
pa-rameter.
A corresponding figure for an intrinsicframework would be essentially the same, ex-cept for the Orientation vector, which would befixed by the ground object (not a viewpoint).In this system, the absolute framework doesnot essentially differ from the other two frametypes.
The only divergence is that a prepositionlike east of is not ambiguous between frames.Therefore, its construction rule must reflect thefact that Opt is uniquely determined lexically (atleast in Indo-European languages).
Thus,CR.east_of does not include a Choose opera-tion, instead a constraint is added to the set ofconditions, such that:xmagnetic north (x)Opt:= ST(x)In addition, because the model is appliedacross the board to all three frameworks, ?abso-lute?
languages like Tzeltal and Guugu Yimithirrdo not require any special device in order to beaccounted for by the system.
Essentially, theselanguages express directions like we do, theyjust have stronger selection restrictions on Opt.Also, Hausa can be readily handled by thetheory by means of the polarity index defined inthe Choose operation.
This pragmatic indexkeeps track of the orientation assignment proc-ess and switches its default (positive) value incase Opt is matched with (ii).
Hausa-behind ?and for that matter, Hausa-in front of ?, then, sim-ply makes use of this index to generate the op-posite vector from the orientation vector.
InHausa, glossing over the syntactic differences,CR.Hausa_behind would thus be:[?]
Introduce into ConK:l ?
Optl1 = ST(?
)l2 = ST(?
)l1 behind l2 & orientation vector = <polarity>l2l& relational vector = l2l1 & 90?
<?< -90?, where?
obtains between the relational vector and theorientation vectorThe very same formalism elegantly capturesthe notorious lateral flip observed in Indo-European languages.
In these languages, theprototypical denotation of to the left of is at a90?
angle, clockwise, from the front side asdefined in a relative framework, but at a 90?angle, anticlockwise, from the front side asdefined in an intrinsic framework.
And viceversa for the prototypical denotation of to theright of.
That is to say that the lateral axis is, asit were, flipped when you pass from one frame-work to the other.
As a result, in a configurationwhere the intrinsic and relative denotations of infront of and behind coincide, the denotations ofintrinsic to the left of will be that of relative tothe right of.So far, this oddity has been a major obstaclein every formal approach which has tried totackle the problem.
For instance, Zwarts &Winter (2000) ?
in the latest attempt to date atformalising the semantics of spatial expressions?
have skipped the lateral flip issue and decidedto treat only the laterally neutral beside(2000:182).
In contrast, the proposed modeloffers a single treatment to and generalises overthe Hausa tandem configuration and the Indo-European lateral flip.
So that, the very samepolarity index will also capture the Indo-European lateral flip by generating the oppositevector in case option (ii) is selected in theChoose operation.Notice that in CR.Derri?re, given above, thepolarity index is not used in the set of conditionswhich determine the semantic contribution ofthe preposition.
In other words, derri?re is notsensitive to the type of framework in which it isinterpreted, i.e.
its denotation does not varyacross frame types.
In the proposed model, thisparticular behaviour is a direct consequence ofthe built-in symmetry of the spatial templates.Indeed, as it appears in Figure 1, the definedangular range is calculated symmetrically onboth sides of the orientation vector.In fact, there seems to be strong empiricalevidence to support this particular property ofthe model.
Thus, the literature on language ac-quisition and psycholinguistics confirm that thefrontal prepositions are acquired faster and areused with fewer mistakes than the lateral pair.
Inthat sense, the spatial templates suggested in thisstudy seem to capture both of these observedfacts.Finally, as is the case in standard DRT withtemporal reference points (see Kamp & Reyle1993:603), Opt is reset after the triggeringclause has been fully processed.
This last dele-tion step is needed so that sentences involvingseveral directional phrases can be treated with-out imposing the requirement that Opt is heldconstant throughout, which would clearly be toorestrictive.
So that, in sequence (10) below, wemust be able to assign an intrinsic reading to thefirst directional PP, while, at the same, we areforced to select a relative reading for the secondPP.
(10) I can see three balls.
The one in front ofthe car [Choose = (ii)] is identical to theone behind the tree [Choose = (i)].In other words, the acceptability of (10) un-der the relevant reading indicates that the orien-tation assignment process is a ?bookkeepingdevice?
which must be reset after the triggeringcomponent has been processed (Kamp & Reyle1993:603).5 ConclusionTo conclude, I hope to have shown that anelegant DRT model for directional prepositionscan be constructed on a single parameter andthat this model successfully captures some verypuzzling cross-linguistic facts, while, at thesame time, shedding some new light on the cru-cial interaction between spatial expressions andspatial reference frames.AcknowledgementsThis research project has been supported by agenerous grant from the Berrow Trust.
I wouldalso like to acknowledge the fruitful feedbackreceived on an earlier version of this paper pre-sented at CSP 2000 in Cambridge; as well asthree anonymous reviewers for useful com-ments.6 ReferencesAsher, N. (1993).
Reference to Abstract Objectsin Discourse.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Asher, N. and P. Sablayrolles (1996).
A Typol-ogy and Discourse Semantics for MotionVerbs and Spatial PPs in French.
In: LexicalSemantics (Pustejovsky, J. and B. Boguraev,eds), pp.
163-209, Clarendon Press, Oxford.Aurnague, M. and L. Vieu (1996).
A three-levelapproach to the semantics of space.
In: Thesemantics of prepositions from mental proc-essing to natural language processing (C. Ze-linsky-Wibbelt, ed.
), pp.
393-439.
Mouton deGruyter, Berlin.Aurnague, M. (1995).
Orientation in FrenchSpatial Expressions: Formal Representationsand Inferences.
Journal of Semantics, 12,239-267.Bloom, P., Peterson M. A., Nadel L. and GarrettM.
F. (eds) (1996).
Language and Space.MIT, Cambridge, MA.Crow, J.
(1989).
Toward a Semantics for Eng-lish Spatial Expressions.
Ms. PhD Thesis.University of Texas at Austin.Herskovits, A.
(1986).
Language and SpatialCognition: An interdisciplinary study of theprepositions in English.
CUP, Cambridge.Jackendoff, R. (1990).
Semantic Structures.MIT, Cambridge, MA.Levelt, W. J. M. (1996).
Perspective Taking andEllipsis in Spatial Descriptions.
In: Languageand Space (P. Bloom, M. A. Peterson, L.Nadel and M. F. Garrett, eds), pp.
77-108.Levinson, S. C. (1996).
Frames of reference andMolyneux?s question: crosslinguistic evi-dence.
In: Language and Space (P. Bloom, M.A.
Peterson, L. Nadel and M. F. Garrett, eds),pp.
109-171.O?Keefe, J.
(1996).
The spatial prepositions inEnglish, vector grammar, and the cognitivemap theory.
In: Language and Space (P.Bloom, M. A. Peterson, L. Nadel and M. F.Garrett, eds), pp.
277-316.Maillat, D. (1999).
On the Interpretation of Di-rectional Expressions: Empirical and Theo-retical Considerations.
Ms. MPhil Thesis.University of Oxford.Maillat, D. (2000).
Which Spatial Template forDirectional Prepositions?
Ms. University ofOxford.Nam, S. (1995).
The Semantics of locativeprepositional phrases in English.
Ms. PhDThesis.
University of California, Los Angeles.Vandeloise, C. (1986).
L?espace en fran?ais.Seuil, Paris.Van Eijck, J. and Kamp, H. (1997).
Represent-ing Discourse in Context.
In: Handbook ofLogic and Language (Van Bethem, J. and A.Ter Meulen, eds), pp.
179-237.
Elsevier, Am-sterdam.Zwarts, J. and Winter, Y.
(2000).
Vector SpaceSemantics: A Model-theoretic Analysis ofLocative Prepositions.
Journal of Logic, Lan-guage and Information, 9/2, 171-213.
