1Annotations and Tools for an Activity BasedSpoken Language CorpusJens Allwood, Leif Gr?nqvist,Elisabeth Ahls?n and Magnus GunnarssonDep.
of Linguistics, G?teborgs UniversityBox 200SE-405 30 G?teborg, SWEDEN{jens,leifg,eliza,mgunnar}@ling.gu.seIntroductionThe paper contains a description of the SpokenLanguage Corpus of Swedish at theDepartment of Linguistics, G?teborg Univer-sity (GSLC), and a summary of the varioustypes of analysis and tools that have beendeveloped for work on this corpus.
Work onthe corpus was started in the late 1970:s. It isincrementally growing and presently consistsof 1.3 million words from about 25 differentsocial activities.
The corpus was initiated tomeet a growing interest in naturalistic spokenlanguage data.
It is based on the fact thatspoken language varies considerably indifferent social activities with regard topronunciation, vocabulary, grammar and com-municative functions.
The goal of the corpus isto include spoken language from as manysocial activities as possible to get a morecomplete understanding of the role of languageand communication in human social life.
Thistype of spoken language corpus is still fairlyunique even for English, since many spokenlanguage corpora (certainly for Swedish) havebeen collected for special purposes, likespeech recognition, phonetics, dialectal variat-ion or interaction with a computerized dialogsystem in a very narrow domain, e.g.
(MapTask (Isard and Carletta (1995), TRAINS(Heeman and Allen 1994), Waxholm(Blomerg et al 1993).
Compared to Englishcorpora, the G?teborg corpus is most similar tothe Wellington Corpus of Spoken NewZealand English (Holmes, Vine and Johnson1998), but also has traits in common with theBNC, the London/Lund corpus (Svartvik1990) and the Danish BySoc corpus(Gregersen 1991, Henrichsen 1997).The corpus is based on audio (50%) orvideo/audio (50%) recordings of naturalis tic-ally occurring interactions.The recordings have been transcribedaccording to a transcription standard consist-ing of a language neutral part ?
presentlyG?teborg transcription standard, GTS 6.2(Nivre 1999a) (it has been tested on Chinese,Arabic, English, Spanish, Bulgarian andFinnish) and a language particular part con-cerned with Swedish ?
presently ModifiedStandard Orthography, MSO6 (Nivre 1999b).Both parts have undergone 6 major revisionsand several minor ones, In order to enhancethe reliability, all transcriptions are manuallychecked by another person than the tran-scriber.
They are also checked for correctnessof format, before they are inserted into thecorpus.
In MSO, standard orthography is usedunless there are several spoken language pro-nunciation variants of a word.
When there areseveral variants, these are kept apart graphic-ally.
Although the goal is to keep transcriptionsimple, the standard includes features ofspoken language such as contrastive stress,overlaps and pauses.
It also includes proce-dures for anonymizing transcriptions and forintroducing comments on part of the tran-scription.Below, we will also describe several tools wehave developed for using the corpus.
The toolshave, like the corpus, been incrementallydeveloped since the early 1980:s and are all2concerned with work on the corpus.
Using thetools and the corpus, we have done variouskinds of quantitative and qualitative analysis,an example of this is a book of frequencies ofSwedish spoken language.
The book containsword frequencies both for the words in MSOformat and in standard orthographic format.
Italso contains comparisons between word fre-quencies in spoken and written language (cf.Allwood 1998).
There is statistics on the partsof speech represented in the corpus, based onan automatic probabilistic tagging, yielding a97% correct classification.
In addition, thecorpus has been the basis for work usingvarious kinds of manual coding, e.g.communication management (includinghesitations, changes, feedback and turntaking),speech acts, obligations, misunderstandings,etc (cf.
Allwood 2001).
The corpus can also beused for other types of qualitative analysis, e.g.for  CA-related sequential analysis.
The re-cordings in the corpus are continuously beingdigitized on to DV tapes and/or CD:s withMpeg compression.
Each CD contains bothtranscriptions and recordings.1.
GSLC and other corporaThe spoken language corpora, besides GSLCinclude several other corpora, cf.
table 1below.
We also work with other spokenlanguage corpora collected by other teams.Table 1.
Spoken language corpora atG?teborg University, Department of Ling-uistics (Parts of the corpora are based onmultimodal redordings.)?
G?teborg Spoken Language Corpus ?GSLC (Kernel Corpus - adult firstlanguage Swedish), 1.3 million words?
Adult language learners of Swedish, 2million words?
Aphasic speakers?
Child language corpus (Swedish andScandinavian), 0.75 million wordsincluding the adults?
Educational progress, 416 interviews,2 million words?
Non-Swedish adult spoken languagecorpus* Chinese (70 000 words)* Bulgarian (25 000 words)* Arabic* English (10 000 words), BNC* Finnish* Italian (3000 words)* Norwegian (140 000 words)* Spanish?
Wizard-Of-Oz Corpus, Bionic?
Intercultural communication corpusGSLC, the kernel corpus of adult first lang-uage Swedish speakers is the corpus we willfocus on in this article.
In Table 2, below, wepresent basic data on this corpus.
However,regroupings of, or selections from, the corpusaccording to such criteria are also possible.The limitations which exist in our ability tocreate subcorpora are dependent on the factthat we do not always have the relevantinformation about individual speakers.Table 2.
The G?teborg Spoken Language CorpusType of socialactivityNo.
ofrecordingsAveragenumber ofspeakers /recordingNo.
ofsections*Tokens(includingpauses andcomments)Audibleword tokensuttered inrecordingDuration**Auction  2  6.0   111  26 776  26 459  3:14:11Bus driver/ passenger   1  33.0   20  1 360  1 345  0:13:33Consultation  16  3.0   239  34 865  34 285  2:44:25Court  6  5.0   79  33 401  33 261  3:58:33Dinner  5  8.0   30  30 738  30 001  2:49:543Discussion  34  5.8   255  240 426  237 583  17:19:24Factory conversation  5  7.4   48  29 024  28 860  2:19:47Formal meeting  13  9.7   186  219 352  215 582  15:45:54Hotel  9  19.2   183  18 950  18 137  6:47:50Informal conversation  22  4.4   152  94 490  93 436  7:48:41Information Service   32  2.1   40  14 700  14 614  0:13:40Interview  58  2.9   1 031  396 758  393 907  30:34:27Lecture  2  3.5   3  14 682  14 667  1:38:00Market  4  24.2   38  12 581  12 175  2:18:37Religious Service  2  3.5   10  10 273  10 234  1:10:45Retelling of article  7  2.0   7  5 331  5 290  0:42:00Role play  2  2.5   7  5 702  5 652  0:39:16Shop  49  7.4   139  36 385  34 976  6:40:46Task-oriented dialog  26  2.3   46  15 475  15 347  2:05:20Therapy  2  7.0   8  13 841  13 529  2:04:07Trade fair  16  2.1   16  14 353  14 116  1:12:46Travel agency  40  2.7   112  40 370  40 129  5:53:57Total   353  4.9   2 762  1 310 284 1 204 029 118:15:53*A section is a longer phase of an activity with a distinct subordinate purpose.
The bus driver/-passenger recording, for example, has 20 sections, where each section involves talk with a newpassenger.
** For some recordings, there is no duration available.
We estimate that the figures given aboveprobably under-represents actual duration by about 30 hours.2.
StorageAround 50% of our 1.3 million tokens corpusis stored on audio tapes and the rest on videotapes (Umatic, VHS or BetaCAM).
In order topreserve the recordings, analog tapes are beingdigitized onto DV tapes and/or Cd:s usingMpeg compression.
One mini DV-tape holds60 minutes and a DVCam 180 minutes.
Thisformat requires a fast computer.
Using Mpegcompression, we have tried to use a constantdata rate of around 200 kb per second.
Thiswill give a fair quality and the format may beused on almost any PC/Mac.3.
Description of the corpus transcriptionstandardThe transcription standard we have used (GTS+ MSO) can perhaps most rapidly be explain-ed through exemplification.Example 1.
Transcription according to the GTS + MSO standard with translation.?1.
Small talk$D: s?ger du de{t} ?
{r} de{t} ?
{r} de{t} s?besv?rlit d?$P: ja ja$D: m // ha / de{t} kan ju bli s?
se{r} du$P: < jaha >@ <ingressive>$D: du ta{r} den p?
morronen$P: nej inte p?
MORRONEN kan ja{g} ju tarallti en promenad p?
f?rmiddan [1 ?0 ]1 d?vill ja{g} inte ha [2 den ]2 medicinen ?0 senn?
ja{g} kommer hem m?jligtvis$D: [1 {j}a ]1$D: [2 n?
]2$D: oh I see is it it is so troublesome then$P: yes yes$D: m // yes / it can be  that way you see$P < yes >@ <ingressive >$D: you take it in the morning$P: no not in the MORNING I always take awalk before lunch [1 and ]1 then I don?t want[2 that ]2 medicine and then when I get homepossibly$D: [1 yes ]1$D: [2 no ]24The example shows the following properties ofthe transcription standard:(i) Section boundaries paragraph sign (?
).These divide a longer activity up intosubactivities.
A doctor-patient inter-view  can, for example have the fol-lowing subactivities.
(i) greetings andintroduction, (ii) reason for visit, (iii)investigation, (iv) diagnosis, (v) pre-scribing treatment.
(ii) Words and spaces between words.
(iii)  Dollar sign ($) followed by capitalletter, followed by colon (:) to indicatea new speaker and a new utterance.
(iv) Double slash (//) to indicate pauses.Slashes /, // or /// are used to indicatepauses of different length.
(v) Capital letters to indicate contrastivestress.
(vi) Word indices to indicate which writtenlanguage word corresponds to thespoken form given in the transcription(?0 corresponds to written languageoch).
In the cases where spoken lang-uage variants can be viewed as ab-breviated forms of written language,we use curly brackets {} to indicatewhat the standard orthographic formwould be, e.g.
de {t} = det.
(vii) Overlaps are indicated using squarebrackets ([ ]) with indices which allowdisambiguation if several speakersoverlap simultaneously.
(viii) Comments can be inserted usingangular brackets (< >) to mark thescope of the comment and @< > forinserting the actual comment.
Thesecomments are about events which areimportant for the interaction or aboutsuch things as voice quality andgestures.4.
Tools which have been developedThe following tools have been developed toaid work related to the corpora.4.1 TransToolTransTool (Nivre et al, 1998) is a computertool for transcribing spoken language in ac-cordance with the transcription standard(Nivre 1999a and b).
It will help the user totranscribe correctly and make it much easier tokeep track of indices for overlaps andcomments (cf.
Nivre et al 1998).4.2 The Corpus BrowserThe Corpus Browser is a web interface thatmakes it possible to search for words, wordcombinations and phrases (as regular expres-sions) in the G?teborg Spoken LanguageCorpus.
The results can be presented as con-cordances or lists of expressions with as muchcontext as you wish and with direct links to thetranscription.4.3 TRACTORTractor is a coding tool which makes itpossible to create new coding schemas andannotate transcriptions.
Coded segments canbe discontinuous and it is also possible to coderelations.
A coding schema can be representedas a tree with strings on all nodes and leaves,and a coding value is a path through the tree.That model is similar to the file and folderstructure on a computer harddisk.
This frame-work makes it easy to analyze the codings in aProlog system, but it is not possible to orderthe codings or code a coding, because a codingonly consists of two discontinuous intervalsand a coded value (Larsson 1997).4.4 Visualization of codings with Frame-MakerWe have also created a toolbox that makes itpossible to visualize coding schemas andcoding values with colors, bold, italics, etc.directly in the transcription as a FrameMakerdocument.
Different parts of the transcriptionmay also be marked (or be excluded) to get alegible view of it without details you might notbe interested in for the moment (Gr?nqvist1999).4.5 TraSAIf you have a corpus transcribed according tothe G?teborg Transcription Standard, usingTraSA it is very easy to calculate some 30statis tical measurements for different propert-ies, activities, sections and/or speakers5(Gr?nqvist 2000b).
For example, you will beable to count things like number of tokens,types, utterances, or more complex things like,theoretical vocabulary.4.6 SyncToolSyncTool (Nivre et al, 1998) is developed (asa prototype for MultiTool) for synchronizingtranscriptions with digitized audio/videorecordings.
It is also meant to be a viewingtool allowing the researcher to view the tran-scription and play the related recording with-out having to manually locate the specific pas-sage in the recording.4.7 Work on a synchronizing tool ?
MultiToolMany of the tools above would be more usefulif you could use their functionality simul-taneously in one tool.
MultiTool is an attemptto build such a general tool for linguisticannotation and transcribing of dialogs, as wellas for browsing, searching and counting.
Thesystem can handle any number of participants,overlapping speech, hierarchical codingschemas, discontinuous coding intervals,relations, and synchronization between cod-ings and the media files (see Gr?nqvist 2000a).The fundamental idea is to collect all inform-ation in an internal state which is a low levelrepresentation of all kinds of annotations,including the transcription, containing theabstract objects: codings and synchronizations.These are the basic types of information thecomputer program requires.
For researchersusing the audio/video recordings of the corpus,the transcriptions are merely a coding of therecordings.
One important detail is that views(e.g.
?partiture?
and other views of transcrip-tion, views of codings, acoustic analysis aswell as audio and video files) pertaining to thesame point in time can be synchronized toshow the same sequence from different pointsof view whenever the user scrolls only in oneof them.
The internal state contains all theinformation so it is possible to have manydifferent views of the same sequence of thedialog.
Changes made in one view will im-mediately change the internal state and as aconsequence the other views.MultiTool is written in JAVA+JMF whichmakes it fairly platform-independent and sinceinterpreters are rapidly getting more efficient,the performance will probably be good enoughon the major platforms very soon.
One mainfeature we will add is the import and exportfunctions for our local transcription format,TRACTOR files and probably also for the CA(?conversation analysis?)
format.For many users, the newer versions of Multi-Tool will in the future replace all the toolsabove.
However, TraSA and the CorpusBrowser will still be needed when working onbigger portions of the corpus at the same time.With the appropriate import/export functionsdifferent users will be able to use their owntranscription- and annotation formats withMultiTool.
In our opinion the features inMultiTool will be a good base level for thingsto do with a multimodal spoken languagecorpus: transcribing, coding/annotatng, con-verting, searching, counting, browsing, visual-izing.
For some other user profiles there arebetter tools, like Waves for phoneticians, andMediaTagger for simpler annotations.5.
Types of quantitative analysisUsing the information provided by the tran-scriptions following the G?teborg standard, wehave defined a set of automatically derivableproperties which include the following (cf.Allwood and Hagman 1994, Allwood 1996):(i) Volume: Volume comprises measures ofthe number of words, word length, pauses,stresses, overlaps, utterances and turnsrelative to speaker, activity and subactivity.
(ii) Ratios: Various ratios can then becalculated based on the volume measures.For example:MLU  = words/utterances% pauses  = 100*pauses/(words+pauses)% stress = 100*stressed words/words% overlap = 100*overlapped words/wordsspeed  = words/durationAlternatively, pause, stress and overlap canbe given per utterance.
All of these meas-ures can then be relativized to speaker,activity or subactivity.6(iii)  Special descriptors : One example of aspecial type of descriptor is ?vocabularyrichness?
as measured through type/token,Guiraud, ?ber, Herdan or ?theoreticalvocabulary?, cf.
van Hout & Rietveld(1993).
Other descriptors we have construct-ed are ?stereotypicality?
which looks at howoften words and phrases are repeated in anactivity, ?verbal dominance?
and ?verbalequality?, ?liveliness?
and ?caution?, andoverlap in different utterance positions.
(iv) Lemma: We also implemented a simplestemming algorithm which enables us tocollect regularly inflected forms togetherwith their stem.
(v) Parts of speech: Parts of speech areassigned using a probability based statistical(Viterbi - trigram) parts of speech taggerwhich has been adapted to  spoken language.Using this, a parts of speech coding has beendone for the whole G?teborg Spoken Lang-uage Corpus, roughly 1.3 million transcribedwords.
The correctness of the coding isabout 97% (cf.
Nivre & Gr?nqvist, 2001).Words subdivided according to parts ofspeech can then be assigned to speaker,activity or subactivity.
(vi) Collocations:  All speakers, activities andsubactivities can be characterized in terms oftheir collocations, sorted by frequency ascomplete utterances or by ?mutual infor-mation?
(Manning and Sch?tze 1999).
(vii) Frequency lists: Frequency lists can bemade for words, lemmas, parts of speech,collocations, and utterance types.
(viii) Sequences of parts of speech:Utterances of different length can becharacterized as to sequence of parts ofspeech.
This allows a first analysis of gram-matical differences between speakers,activities and subactivities.
(ix) Similarities: Similarities betweenactivities are captured by looking at theextent to which words and collocations areshared between activities.Validity and reliability checks are done manu-ally for all automatic measures.6.
Types of qualitative analysis6.1 OverviewIn order to increase the reliablility, qualitativeanalysis in G?teborg has often resulted in thedevelopment of coding schemas, by which wemean schemas for annotations on top of thetranscription.
If the G?teborg coding is com-pared to other coding schemas, we can see thatsome lie on top of transcription, e.g.
DAMSL(Core and Allen, 1997) and DRI, while othersare being integrated with the transcriptionstandard, e.g.
the MATE markup framework(Dybkj?r et al1998).
A fair comparisonbetween the major, not to mention all, schemasis beyond the scope of this paper.
The codingschemas presented here reflect the areas ofinterest that the G?teborg group have focussedon.
The underlying transcription standardnaturally restricts the level of granularity forany new coding schemas, but the two codingtools developed in G?teborg, MultiTool andTRACTOR, are meant to be as independent ofany individual coding schema or transcriptionstandard as possible.
The following listprovides an overview of the G?teborg codingschemas (cf.
Allwood 2001):1.
Social activity and Communicative actrelated coding1.1 Social activity1.2 Communicative acts1.3 Expressive and Evocative functions1.4 Obligations2.
Communication management  relatedcoding2.1 Feedback2.2 Turn and sequence management2.3 Own Communication Management3.
Grammatical coding3.1 Parts of speech (automatic, probabi-listic)3.2 Maximal grammatical units4.
Semantic coding.Reliability checking is planned to be includedin the development of all coding schemata.
Sofar, the coding of Feedback and Own Com-munication Management has been checked forinter-rater reliability (using Cohen?s kappa).76.2 Contributions, utterances and turnsFollowing Grice (1975), Allwood, Nivre andAhls?n (1990) and Allwood (2000), the basicunits of dialog are gestural or vocal contribu-tions from the participants.
The term contribu-tion is used instead of utterance in order tocover also gestural and written input to com-munication.
Verbal contributions can consistof single morphemes or be several sentenceslong.
The term turn is used to refer to the rightto contribute, rather than to the contributionproduced during that turn.
One may make acontribution without having a turn and onemay have the turn without using it for anactive contribution, as demonstrated in theexample below, in which B's first contributioninvolves giving positive feedback withouthaving the turn (square brackets indicateoverlap) and his/her second contributioninvolves being silent and doing nothing whilehaving the turn.A: look ice cream [would] you like an ice creamB1:                       [yeah]B2: (silence and no action)Contributions, utterances and turns are notcoded since they are obtainable directly fromthe G?teborg transcription standard.6.3 Coding related to Social activity andCommunicative acts6.3.1 Social activityEach transcription is linked to a database entryand a header containing information on:(i) The purpose, function and procedures ofthe activity(ii) The roles of the activity(iii)  The artefacts, i.e.
objects.
furniture, in-struments and media of the activity(iv) The social and physical environment(v) Anonymous categorical data on the parti-cipants, such as age, gender, dialect andethnicity.In addition, the major subactivities of eachactivity are given.6.3.2 Communicative ActsEach contribution can be coded with respect toone or more communicative acts which canoccur sequentially or simultaneously.
Thecommunicative acts make up an extendiblelist, where often used types have been provid-ed with definitions and operationalizations.Some often used types are the following: Re-quest, Statement, Hesitation, Question,Answer, Specification, Confirmation, Endinginteraction, Interruption, Affirmation, Con-clusion, Offer.6.3.3 Expressive and evocative functionsIn accordance with Allwood (1976, 1978,2000), each contribution is viewed as havingboth an expressive and an evocative function.These functions make explicit some of thefeatures implied by the communicative actcoding.
The expressive function lets the senderexpress beliefs and other cognitive attitudesand emotions.
What is "expressed" is made upof a combination of reactions to the precedingcontribution(s) and novel initiatives.
Theevocative function is the reaction the senderintends to call forth in the hearer.
Thus, theevocative function of a statement normally isto evoke a belief in the hearer, the evocativefunction of a question is to evoke an answer,and the evocative function of a request toevoke a desired action.6.3.4 ObligationsIf the dialog and communication is to becooperatively pursued, whether it be in theservice of some activity or not, they imposecertain obligations on both sender andrecipient.
With regard to both expressive andevocative functions, the sender should take thereceiver's perceptual, cognitive and behavioralability into consideration and should notmislead, hurt or unnecessarily restrict the free-dom of the receiver.
The receiver should reci-procate with an evaluation of whether he/shecan hear, understand and carry out the sender'sevocative intentions and signal this to theinterlocutor.
The sender?s and receiver's obli-gations can be summarized as follows (seealso Allwood 1994):8Sender: 1.
Sincerity, 2.
Motivation,3.
Consideration (cf.
Allwood 1976)Receiver: 1.
Evaluation, 2.
Report,3.
Action.6.4 Communication management related coding6.4.1 IntroductionThe term ?communicative management?
refersto means whereby speakers can regulate inter-action or their own communication.
There arethree coding schemas related to communi-cation management (cf.
Allwood 2001): 1)Feedback coding, 2) Turn and sequencemanagement coding,  and 3) OwnCommunication Management (OCM) coding.6.4.2 Feedback coding schemaA feedback unit can be described as "amaximal continuous stretch of utterance (oc-curring on its own or as part of a larger utte-rance), the primary function of which is togive and/or elicit feedback concerning contact,perception, understanding and acceptance ofevocative function" (Allwood, 1993).
Allfeedback units are coded with respect to?Structure?, ?Position/Status?
and ?Function?.Coding structure means coding grammaticalcategory (part of speech, phrase or sentence)and also ?structural  operations?.
?Structuraloperations?
is subdivided into ?phonological?,?morphological?
and ?contextual?
operations,each of which have different values.6.4.3 Turn and sequence managementcodingTurn and sequence management coding en-compasses the following phenomena:(A) Overlap and interruption: Overlap iscoded in the transcriptions and can be extract-ed automatically.
Interruption is a code forthose overlaps which aims at or succeed inchanging the topic or taking away the floorfrom another speaker.
(B) Intended recipient: This type of codinghas four self explanatory values(i) particular participant(ii) particular group of participants(iii)  all participants(iv) no other participant (talking tooneself).
(C) Marking of  the opening and closing ofsubactivities and/or the interaction as a whole.6.4.4 OCM coding schemaOCM means ?Own Communication Manage-ment?
and stands for processes that speakersuse to regulate their own contributions to com-municative interaction.
OCM function codingconcerns classifying whether the OCM unit is:?
choice related - helps the speaker gaintime for processes concerning continuingchoice of content and types of structuralexpressions, or:?
change related - helps the speaker changealready produced content, structure orexpression.OCM units are also coded with respect tostructure of the OCM related expression.
Thisstructure can be divided into ?basic OCMfeatures?, ?basic OCM operations?
and?complex OCM operations?.
Pauses, simpleOCM expressions such as hesitation soundsetc and explicit OCM phrases count as basicOCM features.
Basic OCM operations are:?lengthening of continuants?, ?self inter-ruption?
and ?self repetition?.
The category?Complex OCM operations?
stands fordifferent ways to modify the linguistic struct-ure.
The OCM coding schema is described inAllwood, Ahls?n, Nivre & Larsson (1997).6.5 Grammatical codingThere are also ways of coding grammaticalstructure.
One of these is the automatic codingof parts of speech mentioned above.
Another isa coding of ?The Maximal GrammaticalUnits?, a coding schema is described inAllwood (2001).
When coding MaximalGrammatical Units, one should primarily try tofind as large units as possible, the largest unitbeing complete sentences.
Sentences are sub-classified by using the schema ?sentences?.
Inspoken language, there are many utterancesthat are not sentences, so secondarily, oneshould try to find complete phrases, whichshould be coded in the schema ?phrases?.
If itisn't possible to find either complete sentencesor complete phrases, single words should becoded by parts of speech in the schema ?Partsof speech?.97.
Conclusions and Future DirectionsIn this paper, we have described work done atthe Department of Linguistics, G?teborgUniversity to collect, transcribe and storespoken language material.
We have also de-scribed some of the tools we have developedin order to aid work on analyzing the data bothautomatically and manually.
Finally, we havedescribed some of the results obtained so far.Future work will include incremental expans-ion of the corpus both to obtain data from newsocial activities and in order to equalize thesize of the material from different activitytypes.
We will also be making increasedefforts to make the corpus more multimodal bymaking the audio and video recordings onwhich the transcriptions are based moreavailable.
Work on tools for analyzing thecorpus will continue.
The most immediate goalis to complete MultiTool which will hopefullygive us a better possibility of working withmultimodal data.
Similarly, work on quali-tative and quantitative analysis will becontinued.
An ambitious goal is to worktoward a grammatical description of spokenlanguage and toward a systematic description(perhaps not a grammar) of multimodal face-to-face communication.8.
ReferencesJens Allwood (1976) Linguistic Communication asAction and Cooperation.
?Gothenburg Mono-graphs in Linguistics?
2.
G?teborg University,Department  of  Linguistics, 257 p.Jens Allwood (1978) On the Analysis of Communi-cative Action.
In ?The Structure of Action?, M.Brenner, ed., Basil Blackwell, Oxford, pp.
168-191.Jens Allwood (1993) Feedback in SecondLanguage Acquisition, In ?Adult LanguageAcquisition.
Cross Linguistic Perspectives?, Vol.II.
C. Perdue, ed., Cambridge: CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, pp.
37-51.Jens Allwood (1994) Obligations and Options inDialogue, Think, Vol 3, May, ITK, TilburgUniversity, 9-18.Jens Allwood, ed, (1996 and later editions)Talspr?ksfrekvenser, Ny och utvidgad upplaga.Gothenburg Papers in Theoretical LinguisticsS21.
G?teborg University, Department ofLinguistics, 418 p.Jens Allwood (1998) Some Frequency basedDifferences between Spoken and WrittenSwedish.
In Timo Haukioja, ed., Proceedings ofthe 16th Scandinavian Conference of Linguistics,Turku University, Department of Linguistics, pp.18-29.Jens Allwood, (2000) An Activity Based Approachto Pragmatics.
In ?Abduction, Belief andContext in Dialogue; Studies in ComputationalPragmatics?, H. Bunt, & B.
Black, eds., JohnBenjamins, Amsterdam, pp.
47-80.Jens Allwood, ed., (2001) Dialog Coding ?Function and Grammar: G?teborg CodingSchemas.
Gothenburg Papers in TheoreticalLinguistics GPTL 85.
G?teborg University,Department of Linguistics, 67 p.Jens Allwood and Johan Hagman (1994) SomeSimple Measures of Spoken Interaction.
In F.Gregersen, & J. Allwood, eds.,  ?Spoken Lang-uage, Proceedings of the XIV Conference ofScandinavian Linguistics?, pp.
3-22.Jens Allwood, Elisabeth Ahls?n, Joakim Nivre andStaffan Larsson (2001) Own communicationmanagement.In J. Allwood, ed., (2001) DialogCoding ?
Function and Grammar: G?teborgCoding Schemas.
Gothenburg Papers inTheoretical Linguistics GPTL 85.
G?teborgUniversity, Department of Linguistics, pp.
45-52.Jens Allwood, Joakim Nivre and Elisabeth Ahls?n(1990) Speech Management: On the Non-WrittenLife of Speech .
Nordic Journal of Linguistics, 13,3-48.Mats Blomberg, Rolf Carlson, Kjell Elenius, Bj?rnGranstr?m, Jonatan Gustafson, Sheri Hunnicutt,Roger Lindell and Lennart Neovius (1993) Anexperimental dialogue system: WAXHOLM,?Proceedings of EUROSPEECH 93?, pp 1867-1870.Mark G. Core and  James, F. Allen (1997) CodingDialogs with the DAMSL Annotation Scheme.
InWorking Notes of AAAI Fall Symposium onCommunicative Action in Humans andMachines, Boston, MA, November 1997.Laila Dybkj?r, Niels Ole Bernsen, Hans Dybkj?r,David McKelvie and Andreas Mengel (1998)The MATE Markup Framework.
MATE Delive-rable D1.2, November 1998, 15 p.Frans Gregersen (1991) The Copenhagen Study inUrban Sociolinguistics, 1+2; Reitzel, Copen-hagen.H.
Paul Grice (1975.
Logic and conversation.
In?Syntax and Semantics?
Vol.
3: Speech Acts, P.Cole and J. L. Morgan, eds., Seminar Press,New York, pp.
41-58.10Leif Gr?nqvist  (1999) Kodningsvisualisering medFramemaker.
G?teborg University, Departmentof Linguistics, 8 p.Leif Gr?nqvist (2000a) The MultiTool User'sManual.
A tool for browsing and synchronizingtranscribed dialogues and corresponding videorecordings.
G?teborg University, Department ofLinguistics, 6 p.Leif Gr?nqvist (2000b) The TraSA v0.8 UsersManual.
A user friendly graphical tool forautomatic transcription statistics.
G?teborgUniversity, Department of Linguistics, 8  p.Peter A. Heeman aand  James, F. Allen (1994) TheTRAINS 93 Dialogues.
TRAINS Technical Note94-2.Peter Juel Henrichsen (1997) Talesprog medAnsigtsl?ftning, IAAS, Univ.
of Copenhagen,Instrumentalis 10/97 (in Danish), 66 p.Janet Holmes, Bernadette Vine and Gary Johnson(1998) Guide to the Wellington Corpus of SpokenNew Zealand English.
Victoria University ofWellington, Wellington.Amy Isard and Jean Carletta (1995) Transactionand action coding in the Map Task Corpus.Research Paper HCRC/RP-65, 27 p.Staffan Larsson (1997) TRACTOR v1.0b1anv?ndarmanual.
G?teborg University, Depart-ment of Linguistics, 10 p.Christpher D. Manning and Hinrich Sch?tze (1999)Foundations of Statistical Natural LanguageProcessing, The MIT Press, Boston, Mass., 620p.Joakim Nivre (1999a) Transcription Standard.Version 6.2.
G?teborg University.
Department ofLinguistics, 38 p.Joakim Nivre (1999b) Modifierad Standard-Ortografi (MSO) Version 6, G?teborg Univer-sity, Department of Linguistics, 9 p.Joakim Nivre, Kristina Tullgren, Jens Allwood,Elisabeth Ahls?n, Jenny Holm, Leif Gr?nqvist,Dario Lopez-K?sten and Sylvana  Sofkova(1998) Towards multimodal spoken languagecorpora: TransTool and SyncTool.
Proceedingsof ACL-COLING 1998, June 1998.Joakim Nivre and Leif  Gr?nqvist (2001) Tagging acorpus of Spoken Swedish.
Forthcoming inInternational Journal of Corpus Linguistics.Roeland van Hout and Toni Rietveld (1993)Statistical Techniques for the Study of Languageand Language Behaviour.
Berlin & New York:Mouton de Gruyter, 400 p.Jan Svartvik (ed.)
(1990), The London Corpus ofSpoken English: Description and Research.
?Lund Studies in English?
82.
Lund UniversityPress, 350 p.
