Against the Identification of Anaphora and PresuppositionPeter BOSCHInst.
of Cognitive Science, Univ.
of Osnabr?ckKolpingstr.
749069 Osnabr?ck, Germanypbosch@uos.deAbstractSince van der Sandt and Geurts have putforward and extensively applied the notionof a fundamental identity of presuppositionand anaphora, something like a universalconsensus seems to have developed that thisview is basically correct.
Supposing that itis, and further supposing that it entails anempirical hypothesis, there are a number offacts that have so far remained unaccountedfor.
This paper presents some of these factsand argues that more differentiated notionsof anaphora and presupposition may well bemore fruitful for further research in thesemantics-pragmatics interface.IntroductionSince van der Sandt & Geurts (1991), van derSandt (1992) and Geurts (1995, 1999) have putforward the notion of a fundamental identity ofpresupposition and anaphora, a fairly universalconsensus seems to have developed that thisview is basically correct.
Assuming that thisnotion is intended to have empiricalconsequences I shall refer to this view in thefollowing as the 'Presupposition is AnaphoraHypothesis', for short: the PIA hypothesis.There is surely no doubt that phenomena ofpresupposition and anaphora are not unrelated.Understanding anaphora quite conventionally asa way of resuming a previously establishedreference more or less involves the assumptionthat this reference has actually been establishedbeforehand and in this sense is presupposed.
Inthis rough and general sense anaphora ispresuppositional.Conversely, in presupposing that one or theother proposition is true, a relation is establishedto something that either was said before, followsfrom something that was said before, or at leastcould reasonably have been said before; and thisrelation may in some rough and general sense becalled anaphorical.Now Geurts  and van der Sandt do not stay at arough and general level, but turn these relationsbetween anaphora and presupposition into avenerable theory of presupposition that yieldscertain technical advantages for the treatment ofpresupposition when it is implemented in (avariety of) Discourse Representation Theory(van der Sandt (1992) and Geurts (1995, 1999)).I shall argue below that despite this technicalprogress the PIA hypothesis obscures both thenotion of presupposition and the notion ofanaphora.
The Procrustean relationship actuallyharms our understanding of both phenomena.
Atthe same time, I shall argue, the Hypothesis isempirically wrong with respect to linguistic data.I shall start with the latter.1 Empirical ProblemsThere are at least the following sets of data thatwould seem to cause difficulties for the PIAhypothesis:(a) some definite full NPs that carry the usualpresuppositions are not adequately handledas anaphorical;(b) presuppositions that are part of the lexicalsemantics of various predicate expressionsbear at least no obvious relation to anaphora;(c) some definite full NPs that are used in aclear sense anaphorically don't seem to carrythe expected presuppositions;(d) a number of anomalies can be observed withanaphorically used personal pronouns withregard to their presuppositional contents.I shall attend to each set of data in turn in thefollowing subsections.1.1 Non-anaphoric definite NPsI assume a semantics for definite NPs thatfollows L?bner (1985); for short: a definite NPis analysed as expressing (or, if you prefer,denoting or even referring to) a function, in thesense that it yields a unique value for (whatevermay be) its arguments.Some definite NPs achieve their functionalcharacteristic by virtue of properties of theircontext of occurrence: e.g.,(i) by plain resumption of a previouslyestablished discourse referent: A woman enteredthe room.
The woman was wearing black.
Or,(ii) by a more indirect, but still recoverable,relation to an established discourse referent (so-called bridging reference): A bicycle stood by theentrance.
The handle bar was missing.
Or,(iii) by reference to the utterance situation:This month shows a new decrease inunemployment.Other definite NPs, however, would appear to bedefinite merely by virtue of their lexical and(internal) compositional semantics.
Examplesare the following:(1) the sum of 3 and 4(2) the first thing that comes to mind whenone thinks of Aalborg(3) the April 2001 unemployment figures forGermany(4) the beauty of a sunset(5) the H2O moleculeThe presuppositions that are triggered by the useof such expressions are reasonably clear:(1') There is a unique thing that is the sum of3 and 4.
(2') There is a unique thing that first comesto mind first when one thinks ofAalborg.
(3') There is a unique set of figures that isthe April 2001 employment figures forGermany.
(4') There is a unique thing that is the beautyof a sunset.
(5') There is a unique thing that is the H2Omolecule.But the notion that there should be ananaphorical relation between the presupposingexpressions in (1)-(5) and their preceding, orembedding, context that would be related in anyrelevant way to the interpretation of (1)-(5) ishard to grasp.
I take it rather that these NPswould rather demonstrate that presuppositionmay occur without anaphora.
If one implementsan algorithm for the processing for definite NPsthat handles (1)-(5) by first accommodating therelevant entities as discourse referents (?globalaccommodation?)
and then lets the newlyaccommodated objects be bound by them, thiswould just obliterate the difference between thecontributions of lexical and compositionalsemantics on the one hand and of discoursesemantics on the other.
If one appreciates thisdifference, one should be rather reluctant tomake it technically disappear in the processingmechanism.
The more so, because it addsnothing to the understanding of definiteness andif the expressions in (1)-(5), used out of the blueor in any case without actual discourseantecedents, are declared anaphors, it would behard to see what is left of the notion of anaphora.
"Anaphoric" would come to mean roughly thesame as "related to any not explicitly statedbackground knowledge" and would lose anyspecific connection the current discourse.1.2 Lexical presupposition of predicatesIn 1.1 we have just been looking at definitereferential expressions that seem to lack ananaphorical character.
There are also predicateexpressions that clearly carry presuppositions,but have very little, if anything, to do withanaphora.In (6) to (8) - and obviously many analogouscases - the (a)-sentences carry presuppositions asexpressed by the corresponding (b)-sentences:(6) a. Fred's a bachelor.b.
Fred's an adult.
(7) a. Fred ignored me.b.
Fred noticed me.
(8) a. Fred closed the door at 5.b.
The door was open at 5.The idea in cases of this kind is that the structureof a lexical item assumes a distinction betweenwhat is asserted and what is presupposedwhenever the lexical item is predicated of anobject.
- But where is the anaphora?
Andsupposing you find one (there is no natural limitto ingenuity): What would be the explanatoryvalue of anaphora in cases of this kind?Similarly related to lexical semantics would bepresuppositions that are attached to such diversediscourse markers as but, although, even,anyway  - and also for those cases I just fail tounderstand where there would be an interestingconnection to anaphora.1.3 Epithet NPsA class of definite NPs often used for anaphoricresumption of currently prominent discoursereferents are so-called epithets like the oldgrocer or, even less complimentary, the dirtyswine, the old goat, etc.
The literal lexicalcontent of these NPs however, does not enter thetruth conditions of the corresponding sentences.The referents need not be shopkeepers of morethan the expected age, or dirty or old specimenof family Suidae or genus Capra.
Surprisingly,though, when the same expressions are usednon-anaphorically and in a focus position (andperhaps prosodically marked) they have exactlythis literal meaning and trigger thecorresponding presuppositions.
(9) When I arrived at Jones?s office, the oldgrocer greeted me with the bill.
(10) When I arrived at Jones?s office, the oldGROcer greeted me with the bill.
(10') When I arrived at Jones?s office, it wasthe old GROcer who greeted me with thebill.In (9), where the expression the old grocer isprosodically unmarked, it is naturally interpretedwith anaphoric reference to Jones and no oldshopkeeper plays any role.
In (10) and (10'),with the intonationally marked grocer, noanaphoric reference to Jones comes about, butinstead a presupposition is triggered that leads tothe accommodation of a new discourse referentas the reference for the old grocer - with theproperties of being old and a shopkeeper.In occurrences of this kind there is actually achoice between either anaphora or presup-position in the interpretation of the definite NP;but each clearly excludes the other.
Theanaphoric interpretation of (9) is truth-conditionally equivalent to(9') When I arrived at Jones's office, hegreeted me with the bill.and the old grocer in (9) - without affecting truthconditions - merely expresses an attitude of thespeaker towards Jones.
This option is availableonly in contexts where the intended referent isunambiguously established and any lexicalmaterial in the definite anaphor is irrelevant forthe purposes of referent selection.
In suchcontexts we also find semantically vacuousanaphors like that son of a gun, the guy, thechap, the fellow, etc.1.4 Emphatic pronounsIf the PIA hypothesis is to hold generally, itmust hold also for anaphoric definite personalpronouns.
Interestingly, however, we find thesame discrepancy here as under 1.3.
For clearevidence we must look at gender languages.
InGerman anaphoric personal pronouns wetypically find mere formal gender congruencewith the antecedent NP - with no semanticcontent.
If, however, a contrast accent is placedon the pronoun, the pronoun's gender isinterpreted semantically as sex (cf.
Bosch 1988).Hence the unacceptability of (12) despite theacceptable (11) and (13), where either theintonation marking is missing or theinterpretation of gender as sex is admissible:(11) Wenn du die MUTter1 (f) von demBOLzen2 (m) l?sen willst, mu?t du ihn2(m) FESThalten und sie1 (f) nachRECHTS drehen.
[If you want to loosen the NUT1 fromthe BOLT2 you must HOLD it2 and turnit1 to the RIGHT.
](12) *Wenn du die Mutter1 (f) von demBolzen2 (m) L?sen willst, mu?t du IHN2(m) festhalten und SIE1 (f) nach rechtsdrehen.
[If you want to loosen the nut1 from thebolt2 you must hold IT2 and turn IT1 tothe right.
](13) Wenn du deinen Nachbarn1 (m) vonseiner Freundin2 (f) abbringen willst,mu?t IHM1 (m) erz?hlen, da?
du SIE2 (f)gestern im Chez Nous gesehen hast.
[If you want to turn your neighbour1 offhis girl friend2, you must tell HIM1 thatyou saw HER2 in the Chez Nousyesterday.
]On the PIA hypothesis, there is no obvious wayof distinguishing between the condition in whichthe coreference relations are supported by thesemantic content of the pronouns (13) and thecondition where the pronouns' semantic contentis plainly irrelevant or even excluded ((11) and(12)).
- In order to describe the difference weneed a distinction between anaphoric processesand processes that use presupposition based onlexical semantic content.2  ConclusionTheories that are empirically incorrect - orincorrect with respect to one or the other detail -may still be conceptually enlightening and giveus a fundamentally correct model of the pheno-mena in question.
I doubt that this is the case forthe PIA hypothesis.
It obliterates a distinctionbetween two phenomena that are different in aninteresting way: The business of anaphoraproper is the maintenance of reference indiscourse (I am not talking here of the entirelydifferent phenomenon of bound or "syntactic"anaphora (cf.
Bosch 1983), which is rather amorphosyntactic matter and has nothing to dowith either reference or presupposition).Presupposition on the other hand - and here Iagree with van der Sandt (1992) - is notessentially bound up with reference, but is aninferential mechanism that contributes to dis-course coherence in its own way by constrainingthe notion of contextual acceptability - prettymuch the way proposed in van der Sandt (1988).The attempt to iron out some of the remainingdifficulties in the latter approach by reducingpresupposition to anaphora may be technicallyviable (but since this is not my issue here, Ichoose to remain agnostic with respect to thisquestion), but it assumes a notion of anaphorathat is, I believe, eventually not very helpful.My unsolicited advice, then, is this: Let us grantthat van der Sandt and Geurts have demonstrateda very close connection, that was previouslynever properly detailed, between anaphora andpresupposition.
This much understood, we hadbetter turn to some of the questions wherecurrent insight about anaphora and presup-position is pretty poor and where we may stilllearn a lot more about both phenomena and theirrelation.
I am thinking, in particular, of thepossibly very different relation of anaphora andpresupposition to compositionality: One mayreasonably hold that presupposition relations canbe modelled compositionally.
There is no way,however, as far as I can see for a realisticcompositional model of anaphoric relations.
-But this is clearly a topic for another paper.ReferencesPeter Bosch (1983): Agreement and Anaphora.Academic Press.
London.Peter Bosch (1988) Representing and accessingfocussed referents.
Language and Cognitive Pro-cesses, 3 pp.
207-231Bart Geurts (1995) Presupposing.
Dissertation.
Uni-versity of Stuttgart.Bart Geurts (1999) Presuppositions and pronouns.Elsevier, Oxford.Sebastian L?bner (1985): Definites.
Journal of Sem-antics, 4 pp.
279-326Rob van der Sandt (1988) Context and Presupposi-tion.
Croom Helm, London.Rob van der Sandt and Bart Geurts (1991)Presupposition, anaphora, and lexical content.
In:?Text Understanding in LILOG?, O. Herzog & C-R. Rollinger eds., Springer, Berlin.
pp.
259-296Rob van der Sandt (1992) Presupposition projectionas anaphora resolution.
Journal of Semantics, 9pp.
333-377
