Interaction of Tools and Metadata-Descriptions1 forMultimedia Language ResourcesDaan BroederMax-Planck Institute forPsycholinguisticsWundtlaan1 6525 XDNijmegenThe Netherlandsdaan.broeder@mpi.nlPeter WittenburgMax-Planck Institute forPsycholinguisticsWundtlaan1 6525 XDNijmegenThe Netherlandspeter.wittenburg@mpi.nl1We distinguish metadata from annotation data, knowing that many don?t make this difference.
While metadata in thiscontext is meant to describe the whole language resource, the annotation is a time synchronous description of what ishappening and is spoken during a recordingAbstractThe increasing amount and complexity ofmulti-media/multi-modal languageresources (MMLR) poses a problem inmany respects.
This paper wants to discussmetadata descriptions that can be used toeasy find and locate suitable MMLRs in theInternet and how these descriptions may beused to discover and apply suitable tools onthe data.1 IntroductionWe succeeded in reaching a consensus within arepresentative part of the linguistic communityin Europe about a standard for such metadatadescriptions.
A machine readableimplementation of this standard will then allowus to build up a searchable and browsable space.Our presentation is based on the work executedwithin the framework of the internationalEAGLES/ISLE [1,2] project that is named IMDI(ISLE Metadata Initiative), on practical workwith meta descriptions at the MPI forPsycholinguistics, on a collaborative enterpriseto create a browsable corpus demo of material 7European institutes and on suggestions withrespect to metadata within the DOBES [3] andthe CGN [4] projects.2 Metada for Language ResourcesThe idea of describing a whole document withthe help of a few characteristic metadataelements is not new.
Well-known corpora suchas Childes [5] have used header information todescribe the content, the speakers and thelanguage being spoken etc.
The Text EncodingInitiative [6] and the CES group [7] havespecified in detail the tag set with which a wholetext document can be described.
However, allearly initiatives were not meant to be a generalstandard for the description of MM LRs andallow the formation of a searchable andbrowsable space on the Internet IMDI desires.This is what recent initiatives in other domainssuch as Dublin Core (DC) [8] and MPEG7 [9]want to achieve: XML-based machine-readableinformation about certain documents that isopenly accessible in the net such that easyretrieval is possible.
New initiatives by the W3Csuch as RDF [10] support these intentions.Within IMDI we have made an overview aboutheader and metadata elements used so far by thelanguage resource community.
This overviewand the concrete needs within large Europeanprojects will be used to develop and test a firstproposal on the way to come to a hopefullywidely accepted standard.
Compliance with thestandard has to guarantee that metadatadescriptions created by different people atdifferent locations adhere to the same syntax andto the same semantic definitions of the metadataelements included.
The standard has to offerpossibilities of adding metadata elementsdefined by sub communities, projects or evenindividuals.
From other initiatives we know thatthese goals can only be achieved if the set ofmetadata elements is not too exhaustive.
Thisdoes not mean that only limited information canbe stored.
For instance the metadata descriptionstandard certainly includes an element to enterthe name of the language spoken, but other veryelaborate information about that language can bemade available in other data types pointed to byhyperlinks to other data perhaps conforming tomore specialised schemas.IMDI is now entering a phase where themetadata element categories and the metadataelements to be included have been discussedwith interested members of the MMLRcommunity for about a year and become stable.Two resource types were selected to start with:(1) multimedia corpora and (2) lexicons, thediscussion about the lexicon resources is at themoment less far developed than that concerningthe corpora.
Within the IMDI initiative westarted the search for a suitable set of metadataelements by trying to identify the characteristicsof such resources that people such asresearchers, developers, students, or even thegeneral public would choose to use to findexactly those resources they are looking for.Very helpful was the study of the creationprocess and the construction of a structuredmetadata set as a reflection of an ontology ofthese resources.
We know that resourcesthemselves are not openly available, but at leastthe metadata description should inform thecommunity about their existence, aboutintellectual property rights and modes of usage.Two main categories of metadata can beidentified:?
Basic information on the content of theresource: the content language of theresource, and administrative informationabout the resource.?
Resource descriptions that define thetype and structure of the resource.A full listing of all IMDI elements is given inAppendix A, but for definitions andsubstructures we refer to [1].
The relevantelements for the resources themselves are:Table 1 elementsfor media filesTable 2elements forannotationunitsC: constrainedOV: open vocabularyCCV: closed constrained vocabularyFor annotation units multiple units may reside inone file.
The relevant elements forcharacterising the resources in a way that isimportant to tools (a discussion that we willcome to later) are:o Reference to the resource itselfo Size (of media file, if the tool has alimit)o Format (for media files somewhat moresimple then for annotation units)o Type (for annotation unit the type ofanalysis result e.g.
morphology,phonetics ?
)o Different encodingsResource Link (c)Media Resource Link (c)Annotator (string)Date (c)Type (ov)Format (ov)Content Encoding (string)Character Encoding (c)Resource Link (c)Size (string)Type (ccv)Format (ov)Quality (ccv)Recording Conditions (string)Position (c)3 Strategies for Metadata StandardsThe way IMDI has developed its metadatavocabulary can be described as bottom up.IMDI chose to try to first understand thelinguistic community?s needs by making anoverview of metadata used by different projectsand corpora, speak with representatives of manyinstitutions and try to distill a metadata set fromit that focuses on retrieval aspects.
For IMDI theneeds of the creators are the start and end pointsince the creators are also the major consumergroup of language resources.
So the question forIMDI posed itself was ?how to enable resourcediscovery of useful language resources that canbe used for certain studies etc?.
This approachleads to a metadata set whose terminology fitsthe domain and a vocabulary that is considerablericher than the for instance the DC set.Interesting enough another initiative namedOLAC [11] that wants to create metadata forlanguage resources has taken the DC set as astarting point.
The OLAC approach can becalled a top-down one and seems motivated bythe wish to join the ?very important?
OpenArchives Initiative (OAI) [12] without havingtoo much work in mapping different metadatasets.
OLAC wants to use a slightly morespecialised version of the OAI metadata set andbecause OAI uses Dublin Core as defaultmetadata set the choice of an extended DC setfor OLAC is understandable.
Of course thequestion remains if this is sufficient tocharacterise language resources in a sufficientspecific manner.The discussion showed that both approaches areimportant especially when the ontology of thedomain is not very well understood.
IMDI startswith analyzing the domain and leads to a morenarrow and specialised categorization scheme.DC on the other hand offers very broadcategories the semantics of which are oftensloppily defined.
Both approaches lead tospecific inherent retrieval problems.
We have toconsider two views; (1) People from inside thedomain searching for resources (2) People fromoutside the domain.
People from inside haveintimate knowledge of the domain ontology andwant more specific categories.
People fromoutside need broader categories to assure thatthe resources they search fall in the larger ?hitlist?.
The discussion about OLAC DC qualifiersled partly to the same discussions that werecarried out in IMDI.
This is not surprising, sinceOLAC somehow has to address the needs of thefield and the participants at the meeting weremainly linguists.
The OLAC top-down approachwhich starts with a smaller vocabulary thanIMDI will have less problems when addressingthe interoperability with metadata sets such asDC.
However this advantage disappears whenOLAC will add more specific elements andqualifiers to accurately describe the domain.4 Tools and MetadataIt was the initial idea that the metadatadescriptions could also have elements thatdescribe specific tools that can be used to act onthe resources themselves.
However sinceresources and tools form orthogonal dimensionsit is better to have the metadata description onlydescribe resources and not a set of tools that willchange in time anyway.
A more elegant solutionis to describe the type and structure of theresources in sufficient detail so that ?browser?tools used to access the metadata description candecide which ones of the available tools aresuitable to handle the data.
This can be eitherbased on local user configurable information oron some sort of remote tool registry.
At themoment IMDI is experimenting with a schemeof (semi) mime-types to characterise languageresources.
We foresee that users will want tocustomise the mapping of tools to resource typesto their own taste just as they are able to do withWWW-browsers.Needed for such a scheme is that toolrepositories note the types (mime-types) andencoding, character encoding for which the toolsare suitable (see the lists in table 1 and 2).
It hasto be investigated in detail how far toolregistries and resource collections structured bymetadata descriptions can be created in a waysuch that especially na?ve users can overcomethe frustrating problems of accessing the rightresources with suitable tools.
This problem isnot solved and is one of the greatest obstaclesfor increasing the reusability of the hugetreasure of resources.
IMDI has taken limitedtests with a number of tools to study theinteraction between mime-type tagged resourcesand selecting from a tool palette.
We have nodoubt that this is the way to go.A special question is the form of theinfrastructure.
Where will we store the metadatadescriptions and/or resources and how are toolregistries such as from DFKI [13] made knownto the distributed resource universe?
During theIMDI project a preliminary solution is found forcreating a registry authority for metadata.
Thisregistry authority has to build a web-portal,check the quality of the produced metadescriptions, create intuitively understandablebrowsable hierarchies based on the metadescriptions and link the meta descriptions toother type of information and resources Theregistry authority will also provide tools such asa constrained editor that allows the user to createmeta descriptions and a suitable browser whichcan operate on the metadata description files.The IMDI project will also work onrequirements for the registry authority and themetadata tools.At the moment the time has come for IMDI toinvestigate if and how the metadata descriptionbrowser can access remote software registries toassist users in the choice of tools to use forresources.
This would be a logical extension tothe local configurable mapping of tools onresource types that is needed anyway for non-networked situations.References[1] http://www.mpi.nl/ISLE[2] P. Wittenburg, D. Broeder & B. Sloman:Meta-Descriptions for Language Resources- EAGLES/ISLE - A Proposal for a Meta-Description Standard for LanguageResources.http://www.mpi.nl/ISLE/documents/papers/white_paper_11.pdf.
[3] DOBES http://www.mpi.nl/DOBES[4] Corpus Gesproken Nederlandshttp://www.nwo.nl/gw/introductie/[5] CHAT http://childes.psy.cmu.edu/[6] TEI http://www.uic.edu/orgs/tei/[7] CES http://www.cs.vassar.edu/CES[8] DC http://purl.org/dc/documents/[9] MPEG7 http://mpeg7[10] RDF http://www.w3.org/RDF/[11] OLAC http://www.language-archives.org/[12] OAI http://www.openarchives.org/[13] DFKI-softwareregistryhttp://registry.dfki.de/Appendix A: IMDI Metadata Vocabulary for Language Resources.SessionName (string) Resources (group)Title (string) Media File + (group)Date (c) Resource Link (c)Continent (ccv) Size (string)Country (ccv) Type (ccv)Region (string) Format (ov)Address (string) Quality (ccv)Description + (sub) Recording Conditions (string)Keys (sub) Position (c)Project (group) Access (sub)Name (string) Description + (sub)Title (string) Annotation Unit + (group)Id (string) Resource Link (c)Contact (group) Media Resource Link (c)Description + (group) Annotator (string)Collector (group) Date (c)Name (string) Type (ov)Contact (sub) Format (ov)Description + (sub) Content Encoding (string)Content (group) Character Encoding (c)Communication Context (group) Access (sub)Interactivity (ccv) Language (sub)Planning Type (ccv) Anonymous (ccv)Involvement (ccv) Description + (sub)Genre (group) Media Carrier +Interactional (ovl) Id (string)Discursive (ovl) Format (ov)Performance (ovl) Quality (ccv)Task (ocv) Position (c)Modalities (ocv) Access (sub)Languages (group) Description + (sub)Description + (sub) Anonymous (group)Language + (sub) Resource Link (c)Description + (sub) Access (sub)Keys (sub) References (group)Participants (group) Description + (sub)Description + (sub)Participant (group)Type (ov)Name + (string)Full name (string)Role (ov)Language + (sub)Age (c)Sex (ccv)Education (string)Anonymous (ccv)Description + (sub)Keys (sub)
