Extending NLP Tools Repositories for the Interaction with LanguageData Resources RepositoriesThierry DeclerckDFKI GmbHStuhlsatzenhausweg 3D-66123 SaarbrueckenGermanydeclerck@dfki.deAbstractThis short paper presents some mo-tivations behind the organization ofthe ACL/EACL01 ?Workshop on Shar-ing Tools and Resources for Researchand Education?, concentrating on thepossible connection of Tools and Re-sources repositories.
Taking some pa-pers printed in this volume and the ACLNatural Language Software Registry asa basis, we outline some of the steps tobe done on the side of NLP tool reposi-tories in order to achieve this goal.1 IntroductionThe main goal of the ACL/EACL01 ?Workshopon Sharing Tools and Resources for Research andEducation?
is to discuss methods for the improve-ment and extension of existing repositories.
Inthis paper we briefly address one of the centraldiscussion point of the workshop: how to achievea close interlinking between NLP tools and NLresources repositories.
We will base this discus-sion on the ACL Natural Language Software Reg-istry (see (Declerck et al, 2000)) and some papersprinted in these proceedings (see the list of papersin the bibliography).The necessity of having repositories for NLPtools has already been clearly recognized in thepast, and recently this topic has also been ad-dressed within the broader context of a confer-ence on Language Resources (see (Chaudiron etal., 2000) and (Declerck et al, 2000)).
(Chaud-iron et al, 2000) is essentially concerned with thequestion of identifying the NLP supply accordingto its different uses, and thus is describing a user-oriented approach to NLP tools repositories.
(De-clerck et al, 2000) is mainly describing the func-tionalities of the new version of the ACL NaturalLanguage Software Registry, also showing howthis version can overcome some of the practicalproblems encountered by former repositories (asummarized presentation of the ACL Registry isgiven below in section 2).
Both papers are alsodiscussing the problem of proposing a good tax-onomy of NLP tools: user oriented versus de-veloper oriented, top-down versus bottom-up ap-proach, coarse-grained versus fine-grained classi-fication and the way those classification strategiescould cooperate.
So for sure there is also still aneed for establishing a cooperation between dis-tinct approaches to NLP tools classification andtheir implementation, and a corresponding dis-cussion is going on.But since NLP tools are of interest only if theyhave language data they can process and trans-form, and Language Data Resources are only ofinterest if there is a clear indication on how theycan be accessed and processed, there is a alsoa real need of establishing descriptive links be-tween the two types of repositories in which toolson the one side and language data resources onthe other side are included.
This will allow peopleusing a certain tool to easily find the type of lan-guage data they need.
And the other way round:people having language data can easily find thetype of tools that can produce some added-valuefor their data.
The successful establishment ofsuch a connection between these two types ofrepositories will probably require as well a par-tial reorganization of the NLP repositories on theone hand and the language data repositories onthe other hand in order to maximally respond tothe overall requirement of what at the end will bean infrastructure1 for discovering, accessing andcombining language related resources and tools.This paper is specially addressing some of theextensions the ACL Registry is undergoing in or-der to offer a valuable contribution to this infras-tructure.2 The ACL Natural Language SoftwareRegistryThe Natural Language Software Registry (NLSR)is a concise summary of the capabilities andsources of a large amount of natural languageprocessing (NLP) software available to the NLPcommunity.2 It comprises academic, commercialand proprietary software with specifications andterms on which it can be acquired clearly indi-cated.The visitor of the NLSR has two types ofaccess to the information stored in the NLSR:browsing through the hierarchically organized listof products (the maximal depth for browsing islevel 3) or by querying for the specifications ofthe products as they are listed in the Registry.This querying functionality is helping the visi-tor in finding potential relevant software, since heor she is be able to formulate standard queries,whereas a menu allows to constrain the search tocertain aspects of the listed products.
So it is pos-sible to query for example for all freely availablemorphological analyzer for Spanish running on aspecific platform.
Products can be listed in dis-tinct sections.
In order to know in which sectionsa product is to be found, the user can submit astandard query to the Registry Database.The underlying classification of the actual ver-sion of the ACL Registry is largely based on thebook (Varile and Zampolli, 1996).
But this taxon-omy will probably have to be further specializedand extended in order to satisfy the majority ofthe visitors of the NLSR.
Therefore the classifi-cation can be enriched by the products submitted1As (Bird and Simons, 2001) names it.2See http://registry.dfki.de/and/or by comments made by the visitors, intro-ducing thus a bottom-up, developer and/or useroriented classification.A general goal of the most recent editions ofthe NLSR was the simplification of the registra-tion procedure, providing a short form to be filledby the customer.
We do not request anymore anexhaustive description of the submitted product,but concentrate on few points providing a guidingfor the visitor, who will have to consult the homepage of the institutions or authors having submit-ted their product for getting more detailed infor-mation.
In accordance with this simplification ofthe registration procedure, institutes or companiessubmitting their NLP products to the ACL NaturalLanguage Software Registry are required to givetheir URL.3 Extending the ACL Natural LanguageSoftware RegistryThe ACL Registry was till recently a closedworld, in the sense that information encoded init could be accessed only by browsing or query-ing within its web page.
Obviously there is aneed for getting access to this information with-out having to activate a web browser.
Thereforeit was planned to provide for an XML export,since XML is the standard for exchanging struc-tured documents.
And this need was getting evenmore urgent after the Registry Team was askedfor permission of harvesting the ACL repositoryfor the purpose of creating a prototype serviceprovider in the context of an Open Archive Ini-tiative for Language Resources, which is calledOLAC (Open Language Archives Community)and described in (Bird and Simons, 2001).This excellent initiative also requires that theinformation provided by tools repositories is notonly universally available but also has to con-form to certain standards for metadata descrip-tion.
This in order to ensure the interoperabilityacross all the repositories participating as meta-data providers in OLAC.4 XML for Tools Repositories(Erjavec and Va?radi, 2001) are proposing a veryinteresting description of the TELRI-II concertedaction for a tool catalogue specialized for cor-pus processing tools.
This ?limitation?
in thecoverage of the repository TELRI repository isallowing the authors to make extensive experi-ments with various XML specifications and toolsfor the building and display of their catalogue.An experience which should be beneficial forthe more generic ACL Registry, as well as forother provider of tools repositories (so for ex-ample national initiatives, like the one describedin (Chaudiron et al, 2000)).
The authors alsomention one advantage of the limitation in thecoverage of tools: the presence in the entriesof a pointer to persons or institutions being ableto offer advice on installing and using the soft-ware.
Thus addressing also one point mentionedin (Bird and Simons, 2001), where 3 main classesof providers are described: DATA, TOOLS andADVICE providers.But (Erjavec and Va?radi, 2001) are not propos-ing a discussion on how to integrate in the de-scription of the tools the particular relation toa specific corpus.
Nevertheless this should bea common task to be tackled by all providersof tools repositories.
Probably it would be thebest strategy to start with specialized repositories,where the problems to solve can appear earlier.5 Metadata for NLP ToolsAs we saw above, the sole conformance to stan-dards (XML) for document description and inter-change is not enough in the context of OLAC.
Butthe use of metadata descriptions for tools seems tomake sense not only for such initiatives.
(Lavelliet al, 2001) show the use of metadata descrip-tion for tools in the context of an infrastructure forNLP application development.
The role of meta-data there is to specify the ?level of analysis ac-complished by the source processor?.
Thus themetadata descriptions are useful for the commu-nication between processes within an NLP chain,and also allow to mark and identify the documentproduced by such a process.
In any cases, theuse of metadata description for tools (or processestriggered by those tools) is probably a key-issue inthe modular design of complex NLP environment.And one can see in the SiSSA approach tometadata descriptions for NLP processes, maybeas a side effect, a proposition for sharing anno-tations for processes and documents (resources)that can be handled.
This might be a starting pointfor the systematic connection of the descriptionsof both NLP tools and language resources.6 Connection withMetadata-Descriptions for(Multimedia/Mltimodal) LanguageResourcesCatalogue and repositories for Natural Languagedata resources have already been working on thetopic of metadata description for their entries (Seefor example LDC and ELRA).
One can see OLACas a natural extension of the LDC, enlarging theresources catalogue to a real infrastructure forlanguage resource identification.From the side of the Language Engineeringthere are initiatives for describing standards and(Calzolari et al, 2001) present such an initia-tive, the ISLE project, which is the continuationof the EAGLES initiative.
The main objectiveof ISLE is to promote ?widely agreed and ur-gently demanded standards and guidelines for in-frastructural language resources ..., tools that ex-ploit them and LE products?.
The ongoing dis-cussions within this project are thus important forthe intended extension of NLP tools repositories.While (Calzolari et al, 2001) concentrate onthe description of the task of the ISLE compu-tational lexicon working group and address thetopic of metadata for encoding multilingual lex-ical resources, (Broeder and Wittenburg, 2001)presents the work of the ISLE Metadata initiative(IMDI), which is directly relevant for the topicaddressed here.
(Broeder and Wittenburg, 2001)give a good overview of metadata initiatives forLanguage Resources and propose a contrastivedescription of OLAC and IMDI, where the maindistinction can be seen in the top-down versusbottom-up approach.
The top-down approach fol-lowed by OLAC allows an easy conformance tothe Dublin Core set, whereas the bottow-up ap-proach requires the definition of more ?narrowand specialized categorization schemes?.This distinction is important for the intendedextension of the metadata description for NLPtools, since the description of the tools will haveto connect to those distinct kinds of categorizationschemes for data resources.
We think here that theACL Registry can easily be adapted to this situ-ation since the actual classification of tools is alayered one, one layer being quite general (clas-sifying tools wrt broader application types, like?Written Language?
), and the next layer stressingmore the specific technology (for example Infor-mation Extraction versus Text Alignment).
(Broeder and Wittenburg, 2001) is also propos-ing a scheme for connecting the descriptions oftools and resources.
They suggest not to include alisting of tools in the metadata description of theresources, since this set of tools would be chang-ing in time.
Rather they suggest a detailed de-scription of the type and the structure of the re-sources that can be accessed by a ?browser?
tool,which on the basis of the detailed metadata de-scription can select potential tools for handlingthe resources.
The tools repository would haveto include this kind of information in its metadatadescription of the tools.7 ConclusionAs we could see out of this (not exhaustive) se-lection of papers submitted to the ACL/EACL01?Workshop on Sharing Tools and Resources forResearch and Education?, there are a lot of veryinteresting and promising, implicit or explicit,suggestions for the goal of connecting tools andresources repositories.
The ACL Natural Lan-guage Registry will take these suggestions as thebasis of the further work on providing extensionsto metadata descriptions in order to be as com-pliant as possible to emerging infrastructures andstandards for language resources.ReferencesS.
Bird and G. Simons.
2001.
The OLAC MetadataSet and Controlled Vocabularies.
In This volume.D.
Broeder and P. Wittenburg.
2001.
Interactionof Tools and Metada-Descriptions for MultimediaLanguage Resources.
In This volume.N.
Calzolari, A. Lenci, and A. Zampolli.
2001.
Inter-national Standards for Multilingual Resource Shar-ing: The ISLE Computational Lexicon WorkingGroup.
In This volume.S.
Chaudiron, K. Choukri, A. Mance, and V. Mapelli.2000.
For a repository of NLP tools.
In LREC 00,pages 1273?1278.T.
Declerck, A.W.
Jachmann, and H. Uszkoreit.
2000.The new Edition of the Natural Language SoftwareRegistry (an initiative of ACL hosted at DFKI).
InLREC 00, pages 1129?1132.
http://registry.dfki.de.T.
Erjavec and T. Va?radi.
2001.
The TELRI tool cata-logue: structure and prospect.
In This volume.A.
Lavelli, F. Pianesi, E. Maci, I. Prodanof, L. Dini,and G. Mazzini.
2001.
SiSSA ?
An Infrastructurefor NLP Application Development.
In This volume.G.B.
Varile and A. Zampolli.
1996.
Survey ofthe State of the Art in Human Language Tech-nology.
http://www.cse.ogi.edu/CSLU/HLTsurvey/HLTsurvey.html.
