International Standards for Multilingual Resource Sharing: TheISLE Computational Lexicon Working GroupNicoletta Calzolari, Alessandro Lenci, Antonio ZampolliIstituto di Linguistica Computazionale, CNR, PisaConsorzio Pisa RicercheUniversit?
di Pisa, Dipartimento di Linguistica[glottolo,lenci,eagles]@ilc.pi.cnr.itAbstractThe ISLE project is a continuationof the long standing EAGLESinitiative, carried out under the HumanLanguage Technology (HLT)programme in collaboration betweenAmerican and European groups in theframework of the EU-US InternationalResearch Co-operation, supported byNSF and EC.
We concentrate in thispaper on the current position of theISLE Computational Lexicon WorkingGroup.
We provide a short descriptionof the EU SIMPLE lexicons built onthe basis of previous EAGLESrecommendations.
We then point at afew basic methodological principlesapplied in previous EAGLES phases,and describe a few principles to befollowed in the definition of aMultilingual ISLE Lexical Entry(MILE).1 Introduction: the EAGLESinitiative1.1.
What is EAGLES/ISLE?The ISLE project is a continuation of thelong standing EAGLES initiative (Calzolari etal., 1996), carried out through a number ofsubsequent projects funded by the EuropeanCommission (EC) since 1993.
EAGLES standsfor Expert Advisory Group for LanguageEngineering Standards and was launched withinEC Directorate General XIII's LinguisticResearch and Engineering (LRE) programme,continued under the Language Engineering (LE)programme, and now under the HumanLanguage Technology (HLT) programme asISLE, since January 2000.
ISLE stands forInternational Standards for LanguageEngineering, and is carried out in collaborationbetween American and European groups in theframework of the EU-US International ResearchCo-operation, supported by NSF and EC.
ISLEwas built on joint preparatory EU-US work ofthe previous 2 years towards setting up atransatlantic standards oriented initiative forHLT.The objective of the project is to supportHLT R&D international and national projects,and HLT industry by developing, disseminatingand promoting widely agreed and urgentlydemanded HLT standards and guidelines forinfrastructural language resources (see Zampolli,1998, and Calzolari, 1998), tools that exploitthem and LE products.
The aim ofEAGLES/ISLE is thus to accelerate theprovision of standards, common guidelines, bestpractice recommendations for:?
very large-scale language resources (such astext corpora, computational lexicons, speechcorpora (Gibbon et al, 1997), multimodalresources);?
means of manipulating such knowledge, viacomputational linguistic formalisms, mark-up languages and various software tools;?
means of assessing and evaluatingresources, tools and products (EAGLES,1996).The basic idea behind EAGLES work is forthe group to act as a catalyst in order to poolconcrete results coming from current majorInternational/ National/industrial projects.Relevant common practices or upcomingstandards are being used where appropriate asinput to EAGLES/ISLE work, particularly in theareas of computational lexicons, text, speech,and multimodal annotation, and evaluation.Numerous theories, approaches, and systems arebeing taken into account, where appropriate, asany recommendation for harmonisation musttake into account the needs and nature of thedifferent major contemporary approaches.EAGLES is also drawing strong inspirationfrom the results of major projects whose resultshave contributed to advancing our understandingof harmonisation issues.1.2 A quick Overview of the ISLEWorkThe current ISLE project (seehttp://www.ilc.pi.cnr.it/EAGLES96/isle/ISLE_Home_Page.htm) targets the three areas ofmultilingual computational lexicons, naturalinteraction and multimodality (NIMM), andevaluation of HLT systems.
These areas werechosen not only for their relevance to the HLTcall but also for their long-term significance.?
For multilingual computational lexicons,ISLE is working to: extend EAGLES workon lexical semantics, necessary to establishinter-language links; design and proposestandards for multilingual lexicons; developa prototype tool to implement lexiconguidelines and standards; create exemplaryEAGLES-conformant sample lexicons andtag exemplary corpora for validationpurposes; and develop standardisedevaluation procedures for lexicons.?
For NIMM, a rapidly innovating domainurgently requiring early standardisation,ISLE work is targeted to develop guidelinesfor: the creation of NIMM data resources;interpretative annotation of NIMM data,including spoken dialogue in NIMMcontexts; and annotation of discoursephenomena.?
For evaluation, ISLE is working on: qualitymodels for machine translation systems; andmaintenance of previous guidelines - in anISO based framework (ISO 9126, ISO14598).Three Working Groups, and their sub-groups, carry out the work, according to thealready proven EAGLES methodology, withexperts from both the EU and US, working andinteracting within a strongly co-ordinatedframework.
International workshops are used asa means of achieving consensus and advancingwork.
Results will be widely disseminated andpublished, after due validation in collaborationwith EU and US HLT R&D projects, Nationalprojects, and industry.1.3.
The Computational LexiconWorking GroupWe concentrate in the following on thecurrent position of the ISLE ComputationalLexicon Working Group (CLWG).EAGLES work towards de facto standardshas already allowed the field of LanguageResources to establish broad consensus on keyissues for some well-established areas ?
andwill allow similar consensus to be achieved forother important areas through the ISLE project?
providing thus a key opportunity for furtherconsolidation and a basis for technologicaladvance.
EAGLES previous results have alreadybecome de facto standards.
To mention severalkey examples: the LE PAROLE/SIMPLEresources (morphological/syntactic/semanticlexicons and corpora for 12 EU languages,Ruimy et al, 1998, Lenci et al, 1999, Bel et al,2000) rely on EAGLES results (Sanfilippo, A.
etal., 1996 and 1999), and are now being enlargedat the national level through many NationalProjects; the ELRA Validation Manuals forLexicons (Underwood and Navarretta, 1997)and Corpora (Burnard et al, 1997) are based onEAGLES guidelines; morpho-syntactic taggingof corpora in a very large number of EU,international and national projects ?
and formore than 20 languages ?
is conformant toEAGLES recommendations (Leech and Wilson,1996).The first priority of the CLWG in the firstphase of the ISLE project was to do acomprehensive survey of existing multilinguallexicons.
To this end the European and theAmerican members decided, among others, i) toprepare a grid for lexicon description to classifythe content and structure of the surveyedresources on the basis of a number of agreedparameters of description, and ii) to provide alist of cross-lingual lexical phenomena thatcould be used to focus the survey.
The inventory(survey) of what exists and is available(semantic and bilingual/multilingual lexicons,printed bilingual dictionaries) is now beingcompleted, and will be made soon available onthe Web.
Each participant engaged for surveyinga number of resources.
A list of the mainapplications that use lexical resources was alsoestablished, to focus the survey and subsequentrecommendations around them.
Each summaryof a particular bilingual or multilingualdictionary includes: i) a description of thesurveyed dictionary structure (on the basis of thecommon grid), ii) for one or two examples fromthe cross-lingual lexical phenomena, anexplanation of how these examples are handledby this dictionary.2 The structure of the prospectiveMultilingual ISLE Lexical EntryThe main goal of the CLWG is the definitionof a Multilingual ISLE Lexical Entry(henceforth MILE).
This is the main focus of thesecond year of the project, the so called?recommendation phase?.2.1 Basic EAGLES principlesWe remind here just a few basicmethodological principles derived from andapplied in previous EAGLES phases.
They haveproven useful in the process of reachingconsensual de facto standards in a bottom-upapproach and will be at the basis also of ISLEwork.The MILE is envisaged as a highly modularand possibly layered structure, with differentlevels of recommendations.
Such an architecturehas been proven useful in previous EAGLESwork, e.g in the EAGLES morphosyntacticrecommendations (Monachini and Calzolari,1996), which embody three levels of linguisticinformation: obligatory, recommended andoptional (optional splits furthermore intolanguage independent and language dependent).This modularity would enhance: the flexibilityof the representation, the easiness ofcustomisation and integration of existingresources (developed under different theoreticalframeworks or for different applications), theusability by different systems which are in needof different portions of the encoded data, thecompliance with the proposed standards also ofpartially instantiated entries.The MILE recommendations should also bevery granular, in the sense of reaching amaximal decomposition into the minimal basicinformation units that reflect the phenomena weare dealing with.
This principle was previouslyrecommended and used to allow easierreusability or mappability into differenttheoretical or system approaches (Heid andMcNaught, 1991): small units can be assembled,in different frameworks, according to different(theory/application dependent) generalisationprinciples.
Such basic notions must beestablished before considering any system-specific generalisations, otherwise our workmay be too conditioned by system-specificapproaches.
For example, ?synonymy?
can betaken as a basic notion; however, the notion of?synset?
is a generalisation, closely associatedwith the WordNet approach.
?Qualia relations?are another example of a generalisation, whereas?semantic relation?
is a basic notion.
Modularityis also a means to achieve better granularity.On the other side, past EAGLES experiencehas shown it is useful in many cases to acceptunderspecification with respect torecommendations for the representation of somephenomenon (and hierarchical structure of thebasic notions, attributes, values, etc.
), i) to allowfor agreement on a minimal level of specificityespecially in cases where we cannot reach wideragreement, and/or ii) enable mappability andcomparability of different lexicons, withdifferent granularity, at the minimal commonlevel of specificity (or maximal generality).
Forexample, the work on syntacticsubcategorisation in EAGLES proved that it wasproblematic to reach agreement on a fewnotions, e.g.
it seemed unrealistic to agree on aset of grammatical functions.
This led to anunderspecified recommendation, butnevertheless one that was useful.One of the first objectives of the CLWG willbe to discover and list the (maximal) set of(minimal/more granular) basic notions neededto describe the multilingual level.
This task willbe facilitated by the survey of existing lexicons,accompanied by the analysis of the requirementsof a few multilingual applications, and by theparallel analysis of typical multilingual complexphenomena.
Most or part of these basic notionsshould be already included in previous EAGLESrecommendations, and, with differentdistribution, in the existing and surveyedlexicons.
We have therefore to revisit earlierlinguistic layers (previous EAGLES work,essentially monolinguistic) to see what we needto change/add or what we can reuse for themultilingual layer.
The multilingual layer thusdepends on monolingual layers.2.2 The MILE architectureThe MILE is intended as a meta-entry, actingas a common representational layer formultilingual lexical resources.
The key-ideasunderlying the design of a meta-entry can besummarized as follows.
Different theoreticalframeworks appear to impose differentrequirements on how lexical information shouldbe represented.
One way of tackling the issue oftheoretical compatibility stems from theobservation that existing representationalframeworks mostly differ in the way pieces oflinguistic information are mutually implied,rather than in the intrinsic nature of thisinformation.
To give a concrete example, almostall theoretical frameworks claim that lexicalitems have a complex semantic organization, butsome of them try to describe it through amultidimensional internal structure (cf.
thequalia structure in the Generative Lexicon,Pustejovsky 1995), others by specifying anetwork of semantic relations (cf.
WordNet,Miller et al 1990), and others in terms ofargumental frames (cf FrameNet, Baker et al1998; Lexical Conceptual Structures, Jackendoff1992; etc.).
A way out of this theoreticalvariation is to augment the expressive power ofthe lexical representation language bothhorizontally, i.e.
by distributing the linguisticinformation over mutually independent "codinglayers", and vertically, by further specifying theinformation conveyed by each such layer.
Thissolution will contribute to solve the issues raisedby theoretical variation by defining a commonlevel onto which different types of resourceswill be mapped without loss of information.This appears to be a necessary condition toguarantee an efficient re-use and interchange oflexical data, often coming from resourcesdeveloped according to very differentarchitectural and theoretical criteria.With respect to this issue, the MILE isdesigned to meet the following desiderata:?
factor out linguistically independent (butpossibly correlated) primitive units oflexical information;?
make explicit information which isotherwise only indirectly accessible by NLPsystems;?
rely on lexical analysis which have thehighest degree of inter-theoreticalagreement;?
avoid framework-specific representationalsolutions.All these requirements serve the main purposeof making the lexical meta-entry open to task-and system-dependent parameterization.The MILE is modular along at least threedimensions:?
modularity in the macrostructure andgeneral architecture of MILE?
modularity in the microstructure?
modularity in the specific microstructure ofthe MILE word sense.A.
Modularity in the macrostructure andgeneral architecture of the MILE ?
Thefollowing modules should be at least envisaged,referring to the macrostructure of a multilingualsystem:1.
Meta-information - versioning of thelexicon, languages, updates, status, project,origin, etc.
(see e.g.
OLIF (Thurmair, 2000),GENELEX).2.
Possible architecture(s) of bilingual/multilingual lexicon(s): we must analyse theinteractions of the different modules, and thegeneral structure in which they are inserted, bothin the interlingua- and transfer-basedapproaches, and in possibly hybrid solutions.
Anopen issue is also the relation between thesource language (SL) and target language (TL)portions of a lexicon.B.
Modularity in the microstructure of theMILE ?
The following modules should be atleast envisaged, referring to the globalmicrostructure of MILE:1.
Monolingual linguistic representation -this includes the morphosyntactic, syntactic, andsemantic information characterizing the MILEin a certain language.
It generally corresponds tothe typology of information contained inexisting lexicons, such as PAROLE-SIMPLE,(Euro)WordNet (EWN), COMLEX, andFrameNet.
Following the general organizationsof computational lexicons like PAROLE-SIMPLE, which in turn instantiates theGENELEX framework (GENELEX, 1994), atthe monolingual level the MILE sorts out thelinguistic information into three layers,respectively for morphological, syntactic andsemantic dimensions.
Typologies of informationto be part of this module include (not anexhaustive list):?
Phonological layer?
phonemic transcription?
prosodic information?
Morphological layer?
Grammatical category?
Inflectional class?
Modifications of the lemma?
Mass/count, 'pluralia tantum'?
Syntactic layer?
Idiosyncratic behaviour with respect tospecific syntactic rules (passivisation,middle, etc.)?
Auxiliary?
Attributive vs. predicative function,gradability?
Subcategorization frames?
Grammatical functions of the positions?
Morphosyntactic and/or lexical features?
Information on control and raisingproperties?
Semantic layer?
Characterization of senses through linksto an ontology?
Domain information?
Argument structure, semantic roles,selectional preferences on the arguments?
Event type?
Link to the syntactic positions?
Basic semantic relations between wordsenses (i.e.
synonymy, hyponymy,meronymy)?
Description of word-sense in terms ofmore specific, semantic/world-knowledge relations among word-senses(such as EWN relations, SIMPLEQualia Structure, FrameNet FrameElements, etc.)?
Information about regular polisemousalternation?
Information concerning cross-part ofspeech relations (e.g.
intelligent -intelligence; writer - to write)The expressive power of the semantic layer is ofthe utmost importance for the multilingual layer.A general issue discussed in ISLE concernswhether consensus has to be pursued at thegeneric level of ?type?
of information or also atthe level of its ?values?
or actual ways ofrepresentation.
The answer may be different fordifferent notions, e.g.
try to reach the morespecific level of agreement also on values fortypes of meronymy, but not for types ofontology.2.
Collocational information - This moduleincludes more or less typical and/or fixedsyntagmatic patterns including the lexical headdefined by the MILE, which can contribute tocharacterise its use, or to perform more subtleand/or domain specific characterisations.
Itincludes at least:?
Typical collocates?
Support verb construction?
Phraseological or multiwords constructions?
Compounds?
Corpus-driven examplesThis module ?
not yet dealt with in theprevious EAGLES - is critical in a multilingualcontext both to characterise a word-sense in amore granular way and to make it possible toperform a number of operations, such as WSDor translation in a specific context.
Here,synergies with the NSF-XMELLT project onmulti-word expressions are exploited.
Firstproposals for the representation of support verbsand noun-noun compounds in multilingualcomputational lexicons are laid out, and nowtested on some language pairs.3.
Multilingual apparatus ?
Thisrepresents the focal part of the CLWG activities,which will concentrate its main effort inproposing a general framework for theexpression of multilingual transfers.
Some of themain issues at stake here are:?
identify a typology of the most commoncases of problematic transfer (actually thistask has been partially performed during thesurvey phase of the project);?
identify which conditions must beexpressible and which transformationactions are necessary, in order to establishthe correct multilingual mappings;?
select which types of information theseconditions must access in the modules (1)and (2) above;?
identify the various methods of establishingSL --> TL equivalence?
examine the variability of granularityneeded when translating in differentlanguages, and the architectural implicationsof this.C.
Modularity in the specificmicrostructure of the MILE word-sense (word-sense is the basic unit at the multilingual level) ?Senses should also have a modular structure (i.e.the above distinction between modules (B.1.
)and (B.2.)
must be intended at word-senselevel):1.
Coarse-grained (general purpose)characterisation in terms of prototypicalproperties, captured by the formal means in(B.1.)
above, which serves to partition themeaning space in large areas and is sufficient forsome NLP tasks.2.
Fine-grained (domain or textdependent) characterisation mostly in terms ofcollocational/syntagmatic properties (B.2.
),which is especially useful for specific tasks,such as WSD and translation.
Different types ofinformation may have a sort of differentoperational specialisation.3 Methodological and organisationalissuesAs in previous EAGLES, it is consideredhelpful to base the recommendations on therequirements stemming from a few applicationsystems.
The CLWG agreed to focus on twomajor broad categories of application: machinetranslation (MT) and cross-lingual informationretrieval (CLIR).As said above, the CLWG has agreed that weshould base any multilingual description onmonolingual descriptions.
MILE shouldtherefore include previous EAGLESrecommendations for other layers.
We mustevaluate the usefulness of these layers withrespect to multilingual tasks, focusing inparticular on MT and CLIR tasks.
Obviously anadditional module is needed, wherecorrespondences between languages are defined,including conditions on syntactic structuresinvolving lexical entries.
The linking module(transfer) may not be the same for differentapplications: it may be simpler for CLIR, whichmay be a subset of the one needed for MT.
ForCLIR, an ontology or semantic hierarchy ishowever required.We are also adopting an approach that wouldlead to a formalisation of the informationcontained in traditional bilingual dictionaries,such as restrictions on translation, collocationsand examples.The CLWG agreed the following wereappropriate tasks to concentrate on, in order todiscover basic notions for MILE:1.
Analyse information given to the humanuser in bilingual/monolingual dictionariesthat allows selection of correct equivalence.2.
Analyse (if these can be obtained)instructions/guidelines supplied tolexicographers for writing bilingual entries.3.
Investigate, in corpus concordances, whichare the clues that allow todisambiguate/decide on proper sense fortranslation.4.
Elaborate a typology of transferconditions/actions and investigate lexicalrequirements.5.
Look at multilingual lexical requirementsfor approaches based on interlingualconcepts/ontologies.6.
Rank our typology in terms of scale ofdifficulty of disambiguation3.1.
Types of information to beaddressedRegarding the various types of information tobe addressed, the following "workflow" wasagreed:1. notion already exists in previous work(EAGLES, PAROLE/SIMPLE, EWN, etc.):?
evaluate the notion to see if it isgenerally adequate?
evaluate its usefulness for multilingualpurposes2.
notion does not exist as recommendationand is not otherwise used in applications(e.g.
collocation type), or there are notionsfrom other layers that we have not alreadyconsidered:?
decide which method is needed to dowork on it?
prioritise: what is used already inmultilingual lexicons (but not covered inEAGLES, e.g.
covered in OLIF) andalso then look at what needed in nearfuture?
record what needs further development.A starting point will be the previousEAGLES recommendations, as instantiated inPAROLE/SIMPLE, for which ?
as said above -there is a unique DTD for all the 12 languagesinvolved.
This will be revised and augmentedafter work done on various types of information.ISLE will also implement a lexicographic tool,with which a sample of lexical entries will beencoded according to the MILE structure.Assignments for in-depth analysis of theinformation types were done, and work is nowcarried out by the various CLWG members.Results of on-going work will provide: (i.)
a listof types of information that should be encodedin each module; (ii.)
linguistic specifications andcriteria; (iii.)
a format for their representation inmultilingual lexicons; (iv.)
their respectiveweight/importance in a multilingual lexicon(towards a layered approach torecommendations).4 ConclusionsLexicon construction is a costly enterprise,and a major goal is to set up general initiativesto ease and optimise this process.
The crescentneeds of lexical data, both of general and ofdomain-specific nature, makes lexicondevelopment an always incremental andpotentially open effort, often to be carried out indistributed environments and through the jointwork of multiple actors.
It is therefore necessaryto facilitate lexicon versioning and authoring,the fast integration and scalability of theresources, the fast integration of domain andgeneral linguistic knowledge, as well as theintegration of the work of human lexicographerswith the information automatically extractedfrom corpora and dictionaries.
The main purposeof the ISLE CLWG is to provide a satisfactoryanswer to these needs, by establishing a generalinfrastructure for lexical resources sharing.
Itsbackbone is represented by the MILE, a lexicalmeta-entry, whose definition is now the focus ofthe CLWG activities.
The MILE is a modulararchitecture for the representation ofmultilingual lexical data, and aims at becominga common parlance for the representation andencoding of lexical data.ReferencesBaker, Collin F., Fillmore, Charles J., and Lowe,John B.
(1998).
"The Berkeley FrameNet project";in Proceedings of the COLING-ACL, Montreal,Canada.Bel N., Busa, F., Calzolari, N., Gola, E., Lenci, A.,Monachini, M., Ogonowski, A., Peters, I., Peters,W., Ruimy, N., Villegas, M., Zampolli, A.
(2000).SIMPLE: A General Framework for theDevelopment of Multilingual Lexicons.
LRECProceedings, Athens.Burnard, L., Baker, P., McEnery, A.
& Wilson, A.(1997).
An analytic framework for the validationof language corpora.
Report of the ELRA CorpusValidation Group.Calzolari, N. (1998).
An Overview of WrittenLanguage Resources in Europe: a few Reflections,Facts, and a Vision, in A. Rubio, N. Gallardo, R.Castro, A. Tejada (eds.
), Proceedings of the FirstInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation, Granada, pp.217-224.Calzolari, N., Mc Naught, J., Zampolli, A.
(1996).EAGLES Final Report: EAGLES Editors?Introduction.
EAG-EB-EI, Pisa.EAGLES (1996).
Evaluation of Natural LanguageProcessing Systems.
Final Report, Center forSprogteknologi, Copenhagen.
Also available athttp://issco-www.unige.ch/projects/ewg96/ewg96.html.GENELEX Consortium, (1994).
Report on theSemantic Layer, Project EUREKA GENELEX,Version 2.1.Gibbon, D., Moore R., Winski, R. (1997).
Handbookof Standards and Resources for Spoken LanguageSystems, Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin, New York.Heid, U., McNaught, J.
(1991).
EUROTRA-7 Study:Feasibility and Project Definition Study on theReusability of Lexical and TerminologicalResources in Computerised Applications.
Finalreport.Jackendoff, R. (1992), Semantic Structures,Cambridge, MA, MIT Press.Leech, G., Wilson, A.
(1996).
Recommendations forthe morphosyntactic annotation of corpora, Eag-tcwg-mac/r, ILC-CNR, Pisa.Lenci, A., Busa, F., Ruimy, N., Gola, E., Monachini,M., Calzolari, N., Zampolli, A.
(1999).
LinguisticSpecifications.
SIMPLE Deliverable D2.1.
ILCand University of Pisa.Miller G.A, Beckwidth R., Fellbaum C., Gross D.,and Miller K.J.
(1990), "Introduction to WordNet:An On-line Lexical Database", InternationalJournal of Lexicography, III, No.4: 235-244.Monachini, M., Calzolari, N. (1996).
Synopsis andcomparison of morphosyntactic phenomenaencoded in lexicons and corpora.
A commonproposal and applications to European languages,Eag-clwg-morphsyn/r, ILC-CNR, Pisa.Pustejovsky, J.
(1995).
The Generative Lexicon.Cambridge, MA, MIT Press.Ruimy, N., Corazzari, O., Gola, E., Spanu, A.,Calzolari, N., Zampolli, A.
(1998).
The EuropeanLE-PAROLE Project: The Italian SyntacticLexicon, in Proceedings of the First InternationalConference on Language resources andEvaluation, Granada: 241-248.Sanfilippo, A. et al (1996).
EAGLESSubcategorization Standards.
Seehttp://www.icl.pi.cnr.it/EAGLES96/syntax/syntax.htmlSanfilippo, A. et al (1999).
EAGLESRecommendations on Semantic Encoding.
Seehttp://www.ilc.pi.cnr.it/EAGLES96/rep2Thurmair, G. (2000).
OLIF Input Document, June2000.
See http://www.olif.net/main.htmUnderwood, N. & Navarretta, C. (1997).
A DraftManual for the Validation of Lexica.
Final ELRAReport, Copenhagen.Zampolli, A.
(1998).
Introduction, in A. Rubio, N.Gallardo, R. Castro, A. Tejada (eds.
), Proceedingsof the First International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation, Granada.
