Human Language Technologies for Knowledge Management:Challenges and OpportunitiesMark MayburyInformation Technology DivisionThe MITRE Corporation202 Burlington RoadBedford, MA 01730, USAmaybury@mitre.orgwww.mitre.org/resources/centers/itAbstractThis paper outlines the central role arange of human language technologiesplay in the emerging discipline ofknowledge management.
Wearticulate several grand challenges,illustrate some early successes, andrecommend areas of continuedresearch.1 IntroductionIn the past few years, knowledge management(KM) has received increasing attention fromindustry, academia, and government.
EffectiveKM is often cited as a key capability forcompetitive advantage for global enterprises.Human language technology (HLT) plays acentral role in KM, as this article aims toelucidate.2 Knowledge ManagementChallengesKnowledge Management is the field ofenhancing organizational performance throughorganizational knowledge sharing, learning, andapplication of expertise.
As an indicator of theimportance of knowledge management, manycorporations that traditionally measured only thefinancial aspects of value are beginning tomeasure human and intellectual value as well.Knowledge management can be enabled by arange of human language technologies includingbut not limited to enhanced informationretrieval, extraction, summarization, andpresentation/generation.
Moreover, humanlanguage technologies promise to both enhancehuman?s access to information as well as toenhance their interaction with one another suchas by increasing their awareness of knowledgeartifacts or activities intersecting their interests.Key elements of KM include cataloguingexisting knowledge, discovering expertise, andcreation of new knowledge, which we brieflydiscuss in turn.2.1 Knowledge MappingOften times a primary issue for organizations isknowing what they know.
Even providing easyaccess to explicitly captured knowledge inartifacts such as written policies, strategies,documents, and presentations can provideindividuals in organizations with tremendouspower and efficiency.
Often, however, so muchmaterial is created in an organization that itseffective organization is daunting.
Tools arerequired that can automatically generateclassifications and/or taxonomies of explicitcorporate and world knowledge.
The success ofservices such as Yahoo, Northernlight, andQuiver illustrate the value of (and limitations of)current classification-based collections andcollaborative filtering approaches.2.2 Expert and Community DiscoveryKnowing who to call, who knows a key fact, orwho has the know-how or the skill to analyze,diagnose, or recommend in a particular domainis a challenge.
Traditional manually-createdcorporate skills databases are costly,inconsistent across individuals and disciplines,and become rapidly obsolete.
Finding experts orcommunities of experts rapidly can be acompetitive advantage for a company.
Indeed, itis a key function of new business models ofvirtual corporations.2.3 Knowledge DiscoveryKnowledge discovery is the facilitation of endusers or communities of experts directly orcollectively in discovering answers to theirquestions.
Accomplishing this can includequestion answering, discovery of newknowledge through machine learning or datamining, and ultimately new knowledge learning,including ontology induction.3 Preliminary ResultsHuman language technologies have already beenapplied to some key knowledge managementareas (Bontcheva 2001).
For example, Becerra-Fernandez (2001) reports on NASA?s expertfinder.
In our research we have created systemswhich automatically extract and correlateinformation from human created artifacts tocreate assessments of human expertise(Maybury, D?Amore, House, D., 2000).
Forexample, Figure 1 illustrates the screenMITRE?s Expert Finder (also called PeopleFinder) generates after a user types in thekeywords ?machine translation?.
Expert Finderprocesses employee published resumes anddocuments as well as corporate newsletters thatmention individual?s names in the context of thistopic (using named entity extraction) toautomatically create expertise profiles for eachemployee.
Expert Finder then presents a rank-ordered list of employees whose expertiseprofile best matches this query.Figure 1.
Expert FinderIn spite of low inter-human agreement indetermining expertise, an empirical evaluationcomparing ten technical human resourcemanagers?
performance with Expert Finder onfive specialty areas (data mining, chemicals,human computer interaction, network security,and collaboration) demonstrated that ExpertFinder performed at approximately 60%precision and 40% recall when appropriate datawas available.
This is sufficient performance tofind an expert within one phone call, which wasthe original knowledge management objective.While we mentioned in Section 2.1 the value oftaxonomic search engines, another area ofpreliminary success is in knowledge discovery.Several research groups are working to createmore effective means to access multimediainformation sources (Maybury 2000).
Figure 2illustrates MITRE?s Broadcast News Nagivator(BNN), the culmination of many years ofresearch and an integration of multiple humanlanguage and other technologies (Merlino et al1997).
BNN applies speech, language, andimage processing methods to segment, extract,and summarize broadcast news sources toenable personalized and targeted search of thenews.
Figure 2 shows the user querying storiesfrom all sources for the last two weeks (19 Aprilto 3 May 2001 at the time of writing) containingthe keyword "aegis" and the location "Taiwan".People, organization, and locations menus aredynamically generated from extracted entities.Figure 2.
Broadcast News NavigatorThe results of the Figure 2 search are show inFigure 3 which includes 52 stories mentioning"Taiwan" and "Aegis" war ships on multipleprograms (e.g., C-SPAN, Fox News at 6pm,9pm and 10 pm, CNN Headline News, CNNMorning Headline, CNN World Today, CNNWorld View, and CNN Moneyline).
As shownin Figure 3, BNN presents a quick skimincluding a keyframe and the top 3 namedentities for each retrieved story.
Clicking on anyof the keyframes brings the user to that story.Clicking on any of the named entities (people,places, organizations) brings the user to allstories mentioning that name.
Using documentclustering techniques, BNN further providesusers with quick access to related stories.
Anextension of this system automatically minescorrelations among named entities that appearacross stories to detect and track novel topics.Figure 3.
Broadcast News Navigator4 HLT for KMHaving considered the needs of knowledgemanagement and some preliminary promise ofhuman language technology to provide solutionsto these needs, we now more systematicallyanalyze how HLT can contribute to KM.
Table1 outlines a range of functional areas of humanlanguage technology that offer potentialsolutions to some of the elements required toenable knowledge management.
We considerthe following ten areas in turn:  input analysis,information retrieval, information extraction,question answering, translation, dialoguemanagement, user modeling, summarization,presentation generation and awareness/collaboration.4.1 Input AnalysisAnalysis of user spoken language and naturalinput is key to knowledge access.
This isessential for applications such as naturallanguage interfaces to databases, question andanswering, and multimedia interfaces.Challenges include dealing with imprecise,ambiguous, and/or partial input.
Addressingthese challenges in multimodal (e.g., text,speech, and gesture) and/or multiplatform(desktop, kiosk, mobile) interfaces providesadditional challenges.
Input mechanisms that areintuitive as well as user and situation adaptableor automatically adaptive promise to mitigatecomplexity and increase broad availability ofknowledge access.4.2 RetrievalThe ability to leverage the above advances ininput processing (especially query processing)together with advances in content-based accessto multimedia artifacts (e.g., text, audio,imagery, video) promises to enhance therichness and breadth of accessible materialwhile at the same time improving retrievalprecision and recall.
Dealing with noisy, largescale, and multimedia data from sources asdiverse as radio, television, documents, webpages, and human conversations (e.g., chatsessions and speech transcriptions) will offerchallenges.4.3 ExtractionExtraction is the ability to identify and cull outobjects and events from multimedia sources(text, audio, video).
An example challengeincludes extracting entities within media andcorrelating those across media.
For example,this might include extracting names or locationsfrom written/spoken sources and correlatingthose with associated images.
Whereascommercial products exist to extract namedentities from text with precision and recall in theninetieth percentile, domain independent eventextractors work at best in the fiftieth percentileand performance degrades further with noisy,corrupted, or idiosyncratic data.Table 1.
Human Language Technology for Knowledge ManagementHumanLanguageTechnologyGrand Challenges Benefits to Knowledge Discovery,Access, ExploitationInput/QueryAnalysisInterpretation of imprecise, ambiguous,and/or partial multimodal input.Facilities include spoken queryprocessing, visual query analysis (e.g.,sketching), mixed media query (e.g., textand graphics)Natural (written, spoken, gestural) access toinformation and knowledge.
Decrease inaccess complexity or user training.
Broadenavailability of knoweldge to users.Retrieval Natural language processing of queriesand documents.
Content-based retrievalof text, imagery, audio, video.Enhancements to document retrievalprecision and recall.
Direct access to media,easing navigational burden of user.Reduction of search time.Extraction Segmentation, object and eventidentification, and extraction frommultimedia sources (text, audio, video).Direct access to information or knowledgeelements including specific types that maybe user preferred.
Reuse of media elementsenabling user tailored selection orpresentations.QuestionAnsweringQuestion analysis, response discoveryand generation from heterogeneoussources.Overcome time, memory or attentionlimitations required to sift through manyreturned web pages from a traditional searchby providing direct answers to questions.Translation Rapid creation of translingual corpora.Effective translingual retrieval,summarization, and translation.
AccessVerbalization of graphics, Visualizationof text.Cross media/mode information andknowledge access enabling broader access toglobal information sources using methodssuch as translingual information retrieval.DialogueManagementMixed initiative natural interaction thatdeals robustly with context shift,interruptions, feedback, and shift oflocus of controlAbility to tailor flow and control ofinteractions and facilitate interactions.Includes error detection and correctiontailored to individual physical, perceptualand cognitive differences.
Motivational andengaging life-like agents.Agent/UserModelingUnobtrusive learning, representation,and use of characteristics, beliefs, goalsand plans of agents (including the user).Enables tracking of user characteristics,skills and goals in order to enhanceinteraction as well as discovery of experts byother users or agents.Summarization Scaleability, cross-linguality,multimedia summarization.Increasing speed of reviewing materials.Multimedia summarization, cross-lingualsummarization, large multi-documentsummarization.PresentationGenerationAutomated generation of coordinatedspeech, natural language, gesture,animation, non-speech audio,generation, possibly delivered viainteractive, animated life-like agents(includes challenges of media selection,allocation, coordination and realization)Mixed media (e.g., text, graphics, video,speech and non-speech audio) and mode(e.g., linguistic, visual, auditory) displaystailored to the user and context.
Agentsengaging/motivating to younger and/or lessexperienced users.Awareness andCollaborationTopic detection and tracking, place-based asychronous and sychronouscollaboration environments.Enhance awareness of new knowledge aswell as other user?s interests and expertiseand the ability of experts toexchange/integrate knowledge.4.4 Question AnsweringDrawing upon techniques from queryprocessing, retrieval and presentation, animportant new class of systems will move usfrom our current form of search on the web(type in keywords to retrieve documents) to amore direct form of asking questions which arethen directly responded to with an extractedanswer.
Challenges will include sourceselection, source segmentation, extraction, andsemantic integration across heterogeneoussources of unstructured, structured, and semi-structured data.4.5 TranslationLast year, for the first time, English constitutedless than half the material on the web.
Somepredict that Chinese will be the primarylanguage of the web by 2007.
Given thatinformation on the web will increasingly appearin foreign languages and not all users will befluent in those languages, there will be a need togist or skim content for relevance assessmentand/or provide high quality translation fordeeper understanding.
New innovativeapplications include the translation ofmultilingual conversations (e.g., multilingualchat).4.6 Dialogue ManagementKnowledge workers will require systems thatcan support natural, mixed initiative humancomputer interaction that deals robustly withcontext shift, interruptions, feedback, and shiftof locus of control.
Open research challengesinclude the ability to tailor flow and control ofinteractions and facilitate interactions includingerror detection and correction tailored toindividual physical, perceptual and cognitivedifferences.
Motivational and engaging life-likeagents offer promising opportunities forinnovation.4.7 Agent/User ModelingComputers can construct models of user beliefs,goals and plans as well as models of users?individual and collective skills by processingmaterials such as documents or userinteractions/conversations.
While raisingimportant privacy issues, modeling users orgroups of users unobtrusively from publicmaterials or conversations can enable a range ofimportant knowledge management capabilities.For example, this might include expertisedatabases which can be used to enhanceorganizational awareness and efficiency.4.8 SummarizationSummarization aims to select content andcondense it to present a compact form of theoriginal source or sources.
Summaries can be anextraction of or abstraction from original sourcematerial as well as informative, indicative orevaluative in purpose.
Some challenges includemultimedia, multilingual and cross documentsummarization.
Addressing scaleability to largecollections and user-tailored or purpose-tailoredsummaries are active areas of research.Summarization will enable knowledge workersaccess to larger amounts of material with lessrequired reading time.4.9 PresentationEffective presentations require the appropriateselection of content, allocation to media, andfine grained coordination and realization in timeand space.
Discovery and presentation ofknowledge may require mixed media (e.g., text,graphics, video, speech and non-speech audio)and mixed mode (e.g., linguistic, visual,auditory) displays tailored to the user andcontext.
This might include tailoring contentand form to the specific physical, perceptual, orcognitive characteristics of the user.
It mightlead to new visualization and browsingparadigms for massive multimedia andmultilingual repositories that reduce cognitiveload or task time, increase analytic depth andbreatdh, or simply increase user satisfaction.
Agrand challenge is the automated generation ofcoordinated speech, natural language, gesture,animation, non-speech audio, generation,possibly delivered via interactive, animated life-like agents.
Preliminary experiments suggestthat, independent of task performance, agentsmay simply be more engaging/motivating toyounger and/or less experienced users (Andr?2000).4.10 Awareness and CollaborationOur gobal web provides unprecedentedopportunity for world wide collaboration, bothasynchronously and sychronously.
Users willneed enhanced awareness of both emergingknowledge and of one another?s expertise.
Onesuch aid is the detection and tracking of  topicsof interest to facilitate discovery and connectionamong communities of interest.
Another is thecreation of expertise profiles based on publicallyavailable information (e.g., publications,interviews, public conversations).5 Summary and ConclusionHuman language technology promises to delivergreat value to the challenge of knowledgemanagement.
As discussed, many fundamentalscientific and technical challenges will need tobe addressed to ensure that value accrues.
Theseinclude:Heterogeneity ?
Dealing with the diverse natureof human language artifacts, both in form and in(semantic) content.Scalability ?
Addressing the size of corporatecollections and global content.Portability ?
Creating adaptive methods (e.g.,corpus-based machine learning approaches) thatenable rapid retargetting of algorithms to newlanguages and media.Complexity ?
Ensuring that the many contentforms and presentational methods and devicesdo not overwhelm end users.Security ?
Ensuring authentication to controlaccess to source materials and/or ensuring theidentity/integrity of source materials.Privacy ?
Addressing the legal and social issuesof maintaining privacy and user control of auser?s model extracted from public usermaterials or interactions.Overcoming these HLT challenges will beessential to the advancement of knowledgemanagement.6 ReferencesAndr?, E., and Rist, T. 2000.
PresentingThrough Performing: On the Use of MultipleLifelike Characters in Knowledge-BasedPresentation Systems, in: Proc.
of the SecondInternational Conference on Intelligent UserInterfaces (IUI 2000), pp.
1-8, 2000.
Best PaperAward.Becerra-Fernandez, I.
2001.
Searching forExperts with Expertise-Locator KnowledgeManagement Systems.
In ACL ?01 Workshopon Human Language Technology andKnowledge Mangement.
Toulouse, France.Maybury, M., D?Amore, R., House, D. Nov-Dec, 2000.
Automating the Finding of Experts.International Journal of Research TechnologyManagement.
43(6): 12-15.Maybury, M.
(ed.
), February 2000.
News OnDemand.
Special Section in Communications ofthe ACM.
43(2): 33-34, 35-79.
(www.acm.org/cacm/0200/0200toc.html)Maybury, M., D?Amore, R. and House, D.forthcoming.
Awareness of OrganizationalExpertise.
Journal of Human ComputerInteraction: Special issue on Awareness.Merlino, A., Maybury, M., and Morey, D. 1997.Broadcast News Navigation using StorySegments, ACM International MultimediaConference, Seattle, WA, November 8-14, 381-391.Morey, D.; Maybury, M. and Thuraisingham, B.editors, 2000.
Advances in KnowledgeManagement: Classic and ContemporaryWorks.
Cambridge:  MIT Press.Bontcheva, K., Brewster, C., Ciravegna, F.,Cunningham, H. Guthrie, L., Gaizauskas, R.Wilks, Y.
2001.
Using HLT for Acquiring,Retrieving and Publishing Knowledge in AKT.In ACL ?01 Workshop on Human LanguageTechnology and Knowledge Mangement.Toulouse, France.7 AcknowledgementsThe ideas described in this paper are inspired bythe efforts of several human language andknowledge management researchers and groupsat The MITRE Corporation including but notlimited to Eric Breck, Ray D?Amore, DavidDay, Chris Elsaesser, Lynette Hirschman, DavidHouse, Manu Kanchady, Marc Light, InderjeetMani, Harry Sleeper, Cynthia Small, JeanTatalias,  and Alex Yeh.
I also have benefitfrom ideas from Elisabeth Andr?, Thomas Ristand Christoph Thomas and the anonymousreviewers.
