Dialogue tagsets in oncologyMary McGee WoodDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of ManchesterManchester M13 9PL U.K.mary@cs.man.ac.ukAbstractDialogue analysis is widely used in oncol-ogy for training health professionals incommunication skills.
Parameters andtagsets have been developed indepen-dently of work in natural language pro-cessing.
In relation to emergent stan-dards in NLP, syntactic tagging is mini-mal, semantics is domain-specific, prag-matics is comparable, and the analysis ofcognitive affect is richly developed.
Wesuggest productive directions for conver-gence.1 MotivationDialogue analysis systems have been developedin oncology as a tool for assessing and improv-ing the communication skills of health profession-als.
Rates of psychiatric morbidity (clinical anxi-ety and depression) in cancer patients are loweredwhen health professionals have adequate commu-nication skills to discover and address the patients?concerns and worries.
Health professionals inter-viewing patients sometimes exhibit negative be-haviours, such as ?blocking?
a certain line of in-vestigation rather than encouraging the patientto describe his or her problem.
On the otherhand, a skilled interviewer uses active interven-tions to direct the progress of the interview, aswell as more passive responses.
Several oncologyresearch groups have demonstrated that these pat-terns can be detected and quantified through anal-ysis of conversations between health professionalsand patients.
This in turn can form a basis formore effective training in communication skills.The Psychological Medicine Group at Manch-ester (PMG), funded by the Cancer ResearchCampaign (CRC), is a leading group in dialogueanalysis in oncology.
This paper describes theparameters and tagsets (analogous to ?DialogueAct?
tagging (Stolcke et al2000)), which they andthree other groups have developed for this highlyspecialised domain.This domain offers an interesting contrast to the?instructional?
or ?service?
dialogues commonlystudied.
The health professional is the ?expert?
inthe conventional sense, and at times conveys med-ical information to the less knowledgeable patientin a conventional way.
At other times, the patientshould be seen as the ?expert?
with regard to hisor her own perceived physical and mental condi-tion, and the task of the health professional is ef-fectively that of ?knowledge elicitation?
as under-stood in expert systems development.
This flexi-ble and dynamic shifting of participants?
roles in adialogue poses an interesting challenge, comparedto the clearly defined and static roles assumed inmuch work in dialogue analysis.2 Parameters for dialogue taggingComplete and accurate tagging of dialogue mustencode a number of independent aspects of eachutterance.
These are represented as ?layers?in the DAMSL system (Core & Allen 1997).Form-based tags (question, statement) are sup-plemented with diacritics indicating other typesof information, such as task-management orcommunication-management.The four oncology dialogue tagging systemsconsidered here all share this basic principle, al-though they differ in the specifics.
Butow etal (1995:1115) cite the recognition as early as1983 of ?layers of meaning ... such as the con-tent, the process, the emotion and the purpose?.Their own CN-LOGIT system encodes three ?di-mensions?
: ?source?
(who is speaking), ?process?
(questions, responses, initiated statements), and?content?.
A complete dialogue can be mappedinto a three-dimensional information space, andmeasures can be applied such as how much timewas spent in each cell of the cube.
Ong et al(1998) use the Roter Interaction Analysis Sys-tem (RIAS).
Each utterance in a dialogue is cat-egorised, and also rated on five distinct ?globalaffect?
scales.
The Medical Interaction ProcessSystem (MIPS) of Ford et al(2000) also stressesthe multi-dimensional nature of dialogue annota-tion, using fifteen ?content codes?
and eight ?af-fective modes?.
PMG (Maguire & Faulkner 1988;Maguire p.c.)
have separate tagsets for Form,Function, Content, Level, Cue, Cue Management,Blocking, and Focus.One can see an implicit consensus here that (touse NLP terms) syntactic form, overt semanticcontent, pragmatic force, and cognitive affect aredistinct and are all significant.
The differing de-grees of detail and prominence they receive in thedifferent systems are discussed under those head-ings in the next section.3 Dialogue tagsetsNot surprisingly, the actual tagsets developed inoncology reflect their domain more closely thanthe parameter sets do.
In comparison with NLPwork, syntactic classification is minimal and func-tionally oriented, while communication manage-ment and psychological / emotional loading re-ceive prominent, fine-grained analysis.3.1 FormAlthough all four oncology systems encode theform of an utterance in some way, the classifica-tions have a strong pragmatic bias.
Questions aredistinguished, not in traditional syntactic termsas yes-no or wh-, but according to their effect onthe flow of the dialogue.
The simplest set is thatof Butow et al Open Question, Closed Question,Response to Question, Statement, Other.
PMGadd Directive Question (open), Directive Question(closed), Screening Question, Leading Question,Multiple Question.Ford et aldistinguish ?modes?
from ?con-tent codes?, but even the modes encode coarse-grained content information as well as affectiveclassification.
The form categories of Ong et alare ?instrumental?
(Directions, Question-asking,Information-giving, &c), and they specify that ?ifa decision must be made between categorizing anutterance in an instrumental or affect category,the affect category should be used?
- quite rea-sonably, given the purpose of their analysis.Even with a prior commitment to maintainingseparate and independent levels of analysis, someleakage between levels can occur.
(The set offorty-two Dialogue Act labels used by Stolcke et al(2000) shows some similar mixing of levels, includ-ing both purely syntactic tags (such as DeclarativeYes-No Question) and affective tags (such as Ap-preciation).
)3.2 ContentThe content of an utterance is also encoded in allfour systems, and the tagsets on this level are themost domain-specific.
Butow et alcite seven con-tent categories: Treatment, Diagnosis, Prognosis,History, Other medical matters, Social matters.Ford et al with 15 content codes, and PMG,with 38, are the most fully developed.
Bothinclude Medical (further distinguished by PMG,with four categories for diagnosis and two for prog-nosis), Treatment, Psychological, Social, Lifestyle,&c.
PMG are particularly detailed in their cat-egories for psychological and emotional issues,shading into the affect level: Concerns, Feelings,Emotions, Religion, &c. Again, this is what onewould expect, given that their reason for carry-ing out the analysis is to assess the health pro-fessional?s success in getting the patient to talkabout exactly these issues.Both Ford and PMG also include the openingand closing of the interview under this heading,where it sits oddly.
A separate level of commu-nication management, as in DAMSL, would ac-commodate these and the open/ closed/ directivequestion distinction currently made in the Formtagsets, clarifying all three.3.3 PragmaticsAs noted above, the Form classes used in the fourcoding schemes express more pragmatic than syn-tactic information.
Ong et als ?instrumental clus-ters and categories?
(Directions, Question- ask-ing, Information-giving, Counselling) can be con-sidered pragmatic.
So can PMG?s ?Function?codes: eliciting, checking, acknowledgement (psy-chological, general, cognitions); reassurance, ne-gotiation, information giving.
These are similarto some of the Dialogue Act labels used in NLPwork: Stolcke et als (2000) agreement, responseacknowledgement, summarize, or VERBMOBIL?ssuggest, confirm, clarify (Jekat et al1995).3.4 AffectCognitive affect - the psychological force, for apatient, of an utterance or a complete dialogue -is the focus of interest in oncology and thus themost highly developed area.
Ford et alpick outeight of their ?modes?
as affective, including theexpression of irritation, gratitude, apology, andconcern.Ong et alrate both doctor and patient, by cod-ing their utterances, on five distinct ?global affect?scales: Anger/ irritation, Anxiety/ nervousness,Dominance/ assertiveness, Interest/ engagement,Friendliness/ warmth.
Their ?affective clustersand categories?
comprise (with subheadings) so-cial behaviour, verbal attentiveness, showing con-cern, and negative talk.PMG do not represent affect as a separate pa-rameter, as such.
Their function codes includeaffective functions such as Empathy and Reassur-ance.
Many of their content codes can also repre-sent affect, as noted above.
Topics such as Con-cerns, Feelings about health care, Religion / spiri-tual issues can be addressed at any level from sim-ply factual to deeply emotional, blurring the pic-ture: this would be clarified if the affect level wereexplicitly factored out.
The most direct represen-tation of affective level comes in the two codesPsychological explicit and Psychological implicit.Each utterance in a dialogue can be given severalcontent codes, commonly including one of thesetwo, as seen in the sample dialogue below.Cognitive affect has barely been touched on byNLP research in dialogue tagging.
It is clearlymore subtle and difficult than syntactic, seman-tic, or pragmatic analysis, and also less significantin instructional or service dialogues than in thehighly charged, life-critical domain of cancer care.It is, however, an important aspect of dialogue andspeaker modelling, and of the design of appropri-ate responses.
In this area, NLP could learn somevaluable lessons from oncology.4 An exampleHere is a brief typical example from a PMG anno-tated dialogue.
Notice the multiple and somewhatdiverse content codes, and the classification ofcue management (somewhat counter-intuitivelyattached to the cue utterance itself, not theresponse).P26: I said there?s only another thing that I hope Inever have to have and that?s selectron treatment.Content: 23 (Psychological implicit)24 (Treatment)Level: 1 (Hint)Cue: 1 (Patient cue)Cue management: 4 (Cue explored)N27: Mmmm.Form: 02 (Response)Function: 06 (Acknowledgement - general)Content: 24 (Psychological implicit)P27: But I says ... ... if I have to I will do, I saidwhatever you say, I said.Content: 24 (Treatment)14 (Information)N28: Now why did you say that about selectron?Form: 04 (Open directive question)Function: 04 (Clarification - general)Content: 24 (Treatment)P28: No it were me that said that.Content: 24 (Treatment)N29: Right,Form: 02 (Response)Function: 06 (Acknowledgement - general)Content: 24 (Treatment)have you had it before?Form: 05 (Directive question (closed)Function: 04 (Clarification - general)Content: 24 (Treatment)13 (History)P29: I said, I, I don?t mind what you do but I hopeI?ve never to have selectron treatment again, but Isaid if I have to, if it?s a necessity then I will.Content: 23 (Psychological implicit)24 (Treatment)33 (The future)Level: 1 (Hint)Cue: 1 (Patient cue)Cue management: 2 (Minimal acknowledgement)N30: Right.Form: 02 (Response)Function: 06 (Acknowledgement - general)Content: 24 (Treatment)14 (Information)P30: But I hope I never have.Content: 23 (Psychological implicit)24 (Treatment)33 (The future)Level: 1 (Hint)Cue: 1 (Patient cue)Cue management: 4 (Cue explored)N31: And why was that, because you were isolatedor what was it....?Form: 08 (Multiple question)Function: 03 (Clarification - psychological)Content: 23 (Psychological implicit)24 (Treatment)5 ImplementationsAll the dialogue tagging work in oncology has beendone manually.
A few primitive software toolshave been developed to support the tagging pro-cess and to analyse the results.Ong et al(1998) have developed a Turbo Pas-cal ?computerized version?
of the RIAS codingsystem.
The advantages they claim for it give onesome idea of average state of its field:?With this program, classification of utterancescan be done directly on computer.
As a result,the extra step of entering paper and pencil datainto the computer is omitted.
Also, sequential in-formation is kept.
Moreover, because the ten lastclassifications are constantly visible on the screenthere is direct feedback about the ongoing conver-sation.
This provides an important memory aidwith respect to which utterance has to be codednext.
As a consequence, the task becomes less at-tention demanding and therefore less error- prone.By giving the opportunity to save the content ofthe last coded utterance, an additional memoryaid is provided for shorter and longer breaks.?
(Ong et al1998:400)Butow?s group have developed a ?computer-based interaction analysis system?
with threeparts: ?
(i) micro level analysis coded in real timeand retaining the sequence of events, (ii) eventcounts and (iii) macro level analysis of consulta-tion style and affect?
(Butow et al1995:1116).
?Atthe micro level the aim is to break the consul-tation down into its components and to charac-terise, count and/or time them... At the macrolevel, the aim is to characterise the consulta-tion in a more holistic way, such as patient-centred vs doctor-centred, authoritarian vs affil-iative or friendly vs hostile.?
(ibid:1115) All threeforms of analysis depend on counting and timingutterance-events classified according to the three-dimensional model described above, although Bu-tow et alstress that they also ?retain the sequenceof events?.
?In future analyses we will explore se-quential information effects?
(ibid:1120).
This isevidently a significant innovation in its field.
Thefundamental concept of a grammar of dialogueis simply missing from the oncology work.
Onthe other hand, their techniques for ?macro-level?analysis of dialogues may well have something tooffer, especially in the subtle areas of modellingand adapting to speakers?
attitudes and underly-ing intentions.6 ProspectsAll this work has been developed with care, in thelight of experience, to serve a specific and unusualpurpose.
However, it shows no awareness of dia-logue tagging work in NLP.
Both fields can benefitfrom collaboration.The author, together with Prof. Peter Maguireof PMG, has recently been granted support byCRC to develop practical software support forthe PMG oncology dialogue annotators.
Thispaper presents a preliminary analysis, part of afeasibility study for that project.
An associatedPhD studentship, awarded by the University ofManchester Department of Computer Science,ensures that the NLP perspective will be rep-resented and the theoretical issues addressed.We look forward to presenting more detailedanalyses, and original proposals, in the future.AcknowledgmentsProf.
Peter Maguire and Ian Fletcher of PMGhave been generous with their time and supportin the research leading to this paper.
We alsogratefully acknowledge the support of the Can-cer Research Campaign and of the Department ofComputer Science, University of Manchester.ReferencesButow, PN, SM Dunn, MHN Tattersall, & Q. J.Jones.
1995.
Computer-based interaction analy-sis of the cancer consultation.
British Journal ofCancer 71:1115-1121.Core, M. & J Allen.
1997.
Coding Dialogs withthe DAMSL annotation scheme.
AAAI fall sym-posium on Communicative Action in Humans andMachines.Ford, S, A Hall, D Ratcliffe, & L Fallowfield.2000.
The Medical Interaction Process System(MIPS): an instrument for analysing interviews ofoncologists and patients with cancer.
Social Sci-ence and Medicine 50:553-566.Jekat, S, A Klein, E Maier, I Maleck, M Mast, &J Quantz.
1995.
Dialogue acts in VERBMOBIL.Verbmobil-Report 65, Universitat Hamburg et alMaguire, P & A Faulkner.
1988.
How to im-prove the counselling skills of doctors and nursesin cancer care.
British Journal of Medicine 297,847.Ong, LML, MRM Visser, IPM Kruyver,JM Bensing, A van den Brink-Muinen, JMLStouthard, FB Lammes & JCJM de Haes.
1998.The Roter Interaction Analysis System (RIAS) inOncological Consultations: Psychometric Proper-ties.
Psycho- Oncology 7:387-401.Stolcke, A, K Ries, N Coccaro, E. Shriberg, RBates, D Jurafsky, P Taylor, R Martin, C van Ess-Dykema, & M Meteer.
2000.
Dialogue Act Mod-elling for Automatic Tagging and Recognition ofConversational Speech.
Computational Linguis-tics 26(3):339-373.
