Under-specification and contextual variability of abstractprepositions: a case studyAlda MARICNRS / ENST ?
INFRES46, rue Barrault75013 Paris, Francemari@enst.frAbstractIn this paper we discuss somephilosophical questions related to thetreatment of abstract and underspecifiedprepositions.
We consider three issues inparticular: (i) the relation between senseand meanings, (ii) the privileged status ofabstract meanings in the spectrum ofcontextual instantiations of basic senses,and finally (iii) the difference betweenprediction and inference.
The discussionwill be based on the study of avec (with)and the analysis of its abstract meaning ofcomitativity in particular.
A model foravec semantic variability will also besuggested.1 IntroductionThrough the study of the preposition avec wediscuss some major questions related to theanalysis and model of abstract prepositions.Avec is traditionally (Spang-Hanssen, 1963)considered as a mixed preposition.
On one side,its contextual behavior is very heterogeneous:contrary to the colored prepositions (e.g.spatial), it seems difficult to construct a uniquesense from which all the meanings are derived;nevertheless, contrary to the uncoloredprepositions such as de (of) or ?
(to) in French,avec seems to point to an identifiable set ofconstraints.
It is our aim to investigate whetherthis set exists and to determine its status.
Thisrequires an answer to the following questions:1.
How can the contextual variability ofpolysemous prepositions be mastered ?2.
Does a privileged sense exists in thespectrum of this variability ?3.
What is the relation between sense andmeanings ?4.
What criteria have to be filled by a model ?We discuss the first of these questions  insection 2 where we present the theoreticalcontention around the notion of polysemy ofgrammatical items and prepositions inparticular, against which we will have toevaluate the results of our study.
The secondquestion will be illustrated in section 3 wherewe present the main meanings of avec and focuson comitativity, which, being more abstract thenthe others, seems to point directly to the under-specified set of constraints defining avec ingeneral.
In section 4 we briefly introduce amodel inspired from Channel Theory (Barwiseand Seligman, 1997) and we test it on theproblematic data related to the meaning ofcomitativity.
In section 5 we come back to thetwo remaining questions: we present a model forthe whole semantic domain of avec byintroducing the distinction among notions andvalues and discuss the inferential power of ourmodel.Following Pinkal's distinction betweensense and meaning (Pinkal, 1985, Poesio, 1996),we consider that senses tell us under whichcircumstances in the world the sentence is trueor false, and that meanings assigned to anexpression behaves as functions from contextsto senses.2 Polysemy and contextual variabilityThe notion of polysemy implies that (i) a wordhas many different meanings and that (ii) thesemeanings are in a certain way related to oneanother.
A major issue is then to explain thephrase "in a certain way".
By virtue of whatprinciples are they related?
Is it by virtue of aJuly 2002, pp.
17-24.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Disambiguation: Recent Successes and Future Directions, Philadelphia,Proceedings of the SIGLEX/SENSEVAL Workshop on Word Senseunique sense that, together with a rule systemallows to generate all of them, or simply byvirtue of family resemblances ?More fundamentally, the notion ofpolysemy poses the major question of therelation between language and thought.
It is notonly a matter of discovering whether a uniquesense exists, but also to determine whether thissense is cognitively grounded, or in other terms,whether it is pre-linguistic or perception based.Cognitive linguists such as Wierzbicka(1996) claim that all meanings are derived froma cognitive primitive-based dictionary by acognitive grammar.
Under her account, languageis grounded in thought and polysemy is aconsequence of the instantiation of thought intolanguage, the cognitive dictionary being the glueof all the meanings of a polysemous word.Wittgenstein (1953/1961) introduces in hisPhilosophical Investigations (?68) a radicallydifferent point of view.
He argues that it isclearly impossible to define words by abstractmeanings on the account of pure observation.Provocative, this affirmation poses the problemof the existence of rules and opens a series ofother questions: do definitions of polysemousword exist?
And what do these definitions looklike?
Is it possible for an abstract definition tocoexist with local values not caught by thisdefinition?
What is their status then?According to these antithetic philosophicalpositions, prepositions have undergone differenttreatments.
Jackendoff (1987), Wierzbicka(1996) and Br?ndal (1950) consider that theyinstantiate primitive atomic notions and thattheir meanings can be metaphorically andmetonymically calculated; some other authorssuch as Cadiot (1997) consider instead thatprepositions denote different properties on avariable spectrum that cannot be reduced to anatomic sense.These positions are more often grounded inphilosophical considerations rather than inempirical observations.
Our approach isfundamentally inductive and is focused on themeaning of comitativity which seems to trace aprivileged way to the abstract notion of avec.3 The privileged status of comitativityLet us first consider a classif ication of avecmeanings.Syntax: SemanticsNP1 avecNP2Part-Whole: Un homme avec un chapeau/ A man with a hatNP1 (VPavec NP2)Reciprocity: Jean habite avec Anne / Johnlives with AnnInstrumental: Jean enfonce les clous avecun marteau / John pushes nails with ahammerComitativity: Jean marche avec Anne /John is walking with AnnNP1 VPavec NP2Manner: Jean accueille Anne avec la joieau c?ur / John welcomes Ann joyfullyNP1 VPavec NManner: Jean accueille Anne avec joie /John welcomes Ann with joyNP1 VPavec NP2 SInfluence: On a fait tout le voyage avecPierre qui r?lait sans arr?t / We did theentire trip with Peter who couldn?t stopcomplainingAvec NP2,SThematic: Avec ce mauvais temps, il vautmieux rester chez soi / By this badweather, it is better to stay at homeTable 1.
Classification of avec meanings.The meaning of comitativity, as argued byCadiot (1997), stays in the middle of thespectrum of the semantic domain of thepreposition avec: it is less constrained than themeaning of reciprocity and more specific thanthe meaning thematic.
Compared toinstrumental and manner, it is characterized by anotion of symmetry as will be discussed atlength in the next section.
Its privileged statusclearly emerges from the definit ion given for thefirst time by Guillaume (1919/1975) andadopted by Cadiot (ibid.)
in a recent study.Guillaume (ibid.
: 279) defines the comitativityas follows1: ?
the preposition avec is an abstractimage of parallelism: it expresses the relationholding between two entities that exist or acttogether, accomplish the same movements andfollow the same directions.
This imagepresupposes a certain equality ?
which is easilyrealized when the preposition links two nouns?.Cadiot (ibid.
: 153) adds to this the notion ofinteraction: ?avec creates ?
the conditions foran optimal interaction between two entities ofthe reality?.It is important to note that these definitionsalso apply to avec in general: according to theseauthors, they fit the meaning of comitativity andare modified into the other contextualpossibilities enumerated in Table 1.1 The translations are of the author of this paper.Three key notions emerge as fundamentalfrom these citations: parallelism, interaction andfinally association, which is strictly related to thefirst two.
In the following section we show that theintuition grounding these definitions is correct, butthat it is precisely the sense of association thatneeds an explanation: to define avec means toclearly formulate the constraints which need to besatisfied for two or more entities to be said"associated".
We admit that the meaning ofcomitativity has a privileged status and focus on it.3.1 Cadiot's account of comitativityand problematic dataOn a phenomenological level, Cadiot (1997)analyzes the typical example of comitativity in(1), by a condition on symmetry (2) whichimplies a coordination (3):(1) Pierre marche avec Marie / Peter walks withMary(2) a.
If NP1 VP avec NP2 then, NP2 VP avecNP1b.
If ?Pierre marche avec Marie?, then?Marie marche avec Pierre?
(3) a.
If NP1 VP avec NP2, then NP1 VP et NP2 GVb.
If ?Pierre marche avec Marie?, then?Pierre marche?
and ?Marie marche?These conditions properly describe the factthat in a situation where "Pierre walks withMary" it is true that "Pierre walks", "Mariewalks", "Pierre walks and Marie walks", "Mariewalks with Pierre".Nevertheless, these conditions appear toovague: all the cases enumerated from (4) to (6)below are unproperly generated by (2) and (3).Consider the case of two animates who areboth at the same time in the same place2.
(4) a. Jean s?est retrouv?
hier ?
la banque avecla voisine qu?il ne peut pas supporter / Tough hecan?t stand her, John was at the bank with hisneighborb.
(??
)Jean est ?
Paris avec Chirac / John isin Paris with ChiracThe condition (2) which properly generates(4a) does not explain why (4b) is difficult tointerpret if Jean lives in Paris and Chirac is inParis as the President of the Republic and there2 The symbol (??)
means that the sentence isinterpretable under specific conditions.is no interaction between them.
The spatio-temporal association which seems sufficient forinterpreting (4a) has to be reinforced by astronger sense of interaction for (4b) to beinterpretable.The condition in (2) also misses thedifference between (5a) and (5b).
Consider twoinanimate entities:(5) a. Les verres sont dans le buffet avec lescarafes / The glasses are in the cabinet with thepitchersb.
(??
)La porte est dans le salon avec lafen?tre / The door is in the living-room with thewindowThe sentence (5b) cannot describe therelation existing between a window and a doorof a living-room.
For it to be interpretable, thedoor and the window have to be figured out astaken down.Finally, the condition in (2) misses theconstraints related to the nature of thepredicates:(6) a. Jean est gentil avec Marie / John is kindwith Maryb.
(??
)Jean est triste avec Marie / John is sadwith MaryThe only possibility to interpret (6b) is thatMary has an influence on John?s sadness.
Theinterpretation that John is sad, Mary is sad andthat they are sad together at the same time, asforeseen by (2), is excluded.Of course these are all problematic data thata model of avec must explain.
More abstractly,two major difficulties missed by (2) will have tobe solved:(i) The spatio-temporal associationproblem.
As discussed above (cf.
(4a) / (4b)) theproperty of spatio-temporal location is notalways sufficient to ensure the association oftwo entities.
(ii) Regular association vs. accidentalassociation.
Consider two persons walking formpoint X to point Y.
(7a) and (7b) describe thisscene in a fundamentally different way:(7) a.
Le passant A marche avec le passant B /Person A walks with person Bb.
Le passant A et le passant B marchent /Person A and person B walk(7a) means that the walk of the two personsis coordinated and that this coordination is notaccidental.
If one of the two persons turnsaround a corner, the other will do the same.
Thisset of inferences is not enhanced by (7b), whereet presents the coordination of the walks of thetwo persons as purely accidental.In the rest of the paper we will refer to (7a)as showing a togetherness effect.
In thefollowing section we introduce an intensionalmodel which takes the mechanism of this effectinto account.4 Togetherness effectThe model we are about to present is anintentional model that takes into account theproperties of the entities denoted by the NPs ofthe construction NP1 VP avec[+comitativity] NP2.This explanation contrasts with the extensionalmodels that have been used to explain thetogetherness effect (Lasersohn, 1998).Our representation serves the purpose ofillustrating, by a concrete case, the speculativediscussion in the next section.
It can bequestioned on many different formal aspects,and can be further elaborated or even differentlyexpressed.
Nevertheless the model is intuitiveenough to ground the philosophical discussionunderlying our case study.4.1 Shortcomings of extensionalmodelsLasershon (ibid.)
proposes a model oftogetherness based on the notion of group:(8) Together: given the eventuality3 e, aproperty P and a group g, together is appropriateiff g ?
P(e) and, for each part (proper orimproper) e?
of e, if it exists x such that x ?P(e?
), then P(e?)
= P(e).Under this account, a group is thought of interms of the minimal number of entities sharinga property in  an event (or state) and all its parts.As such, this model fails to discard the cases ofpure accidental association such as (7b): thisnotion of group can be applied to a scene wheretwo (and only two) persons accidentally walk inthe street from point A to point B and in all theparts (proper and improper) of this path.3 Eventualities are spatio-temporal entities such asstates and processes (Binnick, 1991).4.2 Channel theory and intensionalityTo explain the togetherness effect, we havedeveloped a modal model inspired by ChannelTheory of Barwise and Seligman (1997).
Weclaim that the notion of togetherness isinterpretable in terms of channel or the linkageof properties of the parts of a whole.A whole regulating and coordinating theinternal behavior of its parts is a distributedsystem or channel.
A model consideringproperties and types is intensional: knowing theobject type, one can predict its behavior.A channel is thus defined by constraints thatuniversally quantify over types (and not entitiesas in the extensional accounts), guaranteeingthat the linkage of the properties of the parts (i)is regular (vs. accidental) for a given object typeand (ii) take place within the structure of thedistributed system.Technically, a channel is defined as thecombination of two infomorphisms.
The notionof classification grounds the definitions in (10)and (11).
(9) Classification.
A classification is a triple(Objets, Types, ?
), where Objets is a set of objects,Types a set of categories or types, and ?
a relationbetween Objets and Types.
If o ?
Objets and s ?Types, o ?
s means that the o is of type s.(10) Infomorphism.
An infomorphism is a pair ofclassifications (Objects1, Types1, ?1) and (Objects2,Types2, ?2) associated with two total functions f :Objects1 ??
Objects2 et g : Types2 ??
Types1such that, for o ?
Objects1 and s ?
Types2 :11 221 2 ( ) ( )Types TypesfObjects Objectsgf o iff o g?
?
?
???
?s s??
?M MM MChannel.
A channel is a set of infomorphismssharing a common classification called the coreof the channel.1 2?
??
( ) ?
(1 2 3)f gf gf gWholePart Parta b ba ???
??????
??
?M M MM M M??
?
?We claim that avec signals the presence of adistributed system regulating the properties ofthe entities it links, in a regular way.
In otherterms, the kind of association introduced byavec can be represented by a channel.
We canthus formulate the abstract constraints definingthe behavior of avec:(11) Under-specified sense of avec.
Avecsignals that the state of affairs it refers to isstructured in a way that can be described by achannel.4.3 Avec-comitativityWe can now come back to the explanation of theproblematic data introduced in the discussion ofavec-comitativity and test our model.The definition (12) establishes a cleardistinction between (7a) and (7b): avec in (7a)signals the existence of an overall walkcoordinating the two separate walks of thepersons involved, where et in (7b) does not.
Itfollows that only (7a) enhances a scenario thatcan be described by a channel.
This under-specified definition is specified as follows intothe meaning of comitativity:(12) Avec-comitativity.
In a structure NP1 VPavec NP2, avec signals the existence of achannel verifying the following conditions:(i) it links the phases describing the eventsinvolving the entities denoted by NP1 andNP2,(ii) each of the phases involving one of thetwo entities implies that the phaseinvolving the other entity expresses anactual or potential influence,(iii) no other phases than the ones described inthe sentence can be evoked4.G N 1 G N 1 GN 2 G N 2( ) (1 2 3;), , , ,f?
g?f?
g?f ga b ba ???
??????
??
?f f f fM M MM M M??
?
?The following set of constraints furtherspecify this representation (the operators F, P4 This condition can be expressed by the notion ofaggregation (Kratzer, 1989): the association has to bepossible within the system itself and not by theintervention of external events.and ?
have their usual meaning of past, futureand possibility):F o r  e a c h  ,  i t  e x i s t s   s u c h  t h a t( ) ?
( )( ) ?
( )F o r  e a c h  ,  i t  e x i s t s   i t  e x i s t s?
( ) ( )?
( ) ( )g g Fg g Pg g Fg g Pa ?
S b ?
Q?
??
?a ?
b?
??
?a ?
b?
?b ?
Q a ?
S?
??
?b ?
a?
??
?b ?
a?
????
?Let us analyze this definition:(i) Avec links the eventualities whichinvolve the entities denoted by NP1 and NP25.
(ii) The types describing these eventualitiesare phases i.e.
descriptions including thepossible previous and past developments of theactual eventuality (Penczek, 1995).Moreover, we have to note that theconstraints characterizing the channel presentmodal types.
This is licit within Channel Theoryand is particularly useful for our purposes.We can conclude that the channel signaledby avec-comitativity links the present, past andfuture developments of the eventualities whichinvolve the denotations of NP1 and NP2.4.3.1 Solution of the spatio-temporaljuxtaposition problemLet us come back to the paradox of spatio-temporal co-localisation.
In most cases, avec isused when two entities interact.
Cadiot (1997)considers this condition as necessary.Nevertheless some cases of pure spatio-temporalco-localisation are supported by avec, such as(4a).
They can now be easily explained.Consider an example:(13) A son insu, Jean s'est retrouv?
sur lamontagne avec un ours / Without knowing it,John was on the mountain with a bearIn the referred state of affairs there is nointeraction between John and the bear.Nevertheless, according to our experience, weknow that the particular location of a person anda bear being on a mountain can evolve towardan interaction by virtue of them being in thesame place.
It is because John and the bear arein the same place at the same time, that theycould interact.
According to (13), this scenariocan be described by a channel that takes the5 From now on, we will refer to the denotations of NP1and NP2 by X and Y respectively.form of potential interaction and links theirmutual positions.This is not the case for the spatio-temporallocation of John and Chirac in (4b).
In the casewhere they would meet, it would not be byvirtue of their being both in Paris, at least not ina default context; an extra eventuality shouldintervene for John et Chirac to meet and this isnot allowed by (13) nor by the definition ofchannel in (11).
There is then no distributedsystem regulating their particular spatio-temporal properties.The definition (13) also explains why insome other cases avec is impossible.
Considerthe window and the door of a living-room (5b):the properties of their spatio-temporal locationsare not mutually regulated.
This is why theinterpretation of the sentence enhances ascenario in which someone has taken them downin the course of a remaking of the house, forinstance.The same explanation holds for (6b).
Avecforces an interpretation where the sadness (oranother property) of Mary influences thesadness of John: avec signals a coordination ofthe properties of the entities it links.
Thedefinition in (12) forbids the interpretation that"Jean is sad, Marie is sad, they are sadindependently from one another and they are sadin the same spatio-temporal location".5 A model for avec: notions, values,inferencesLet us recall the argumentation we have beenpursuing until now.
Avec shows a very widecontextual variability and the challenge is toreconstruct a unique set of constraintsexplaining the coherence of its semanticspectrum.
The meaning of comitativity hasoffered a privileged way toward this set definedin (12).
This definition is quite abstract and isdifferently instantiated into the other contextualpossibilities.
The table 2 summarizes thedefinitions that can be given to each of themeanings listed in table 1.AssociationNOTIONS Influenceb Spatio-temporaltacegVALUESComitativitydInfluenceeInter-propositionalzPart-wholehInstrumental /MannerqTable 2.
Model for avec semantic domain.This table suggests that the meanings ofavec can be classified into two families: thespatio-temporal trace and influence.
Theobservable meanings, or values, differentlyinstantiate the abstract constraints that we callnotions.NOTIONS?
aTwo entities are thought of as acting (or takingplace) within the same scene in such a way that aconnection exists between them.?
bWith connects phase by phase the twoeventualities in which X and Y are involvedwithout the intervention of eventualities otherthan the ones described in the sentence.?
gThe spatio-temporal trace of X gives an accessto the spatio-temporal trace of Y without theintervention of entities other than the onesreferred to in the sentence.VALUES?
dThe potential for the eventuality in which X (orY) is involved to influence (or have influenced)the eventuality in which Y (or X) is involved.?
eThe potential for the eventuality in which Y isinvolved to influence the way in which Xcontrols the eventuality in which is involved.?
zThe potential for the eventuality described bythe PP to influence the eventuality described inthe main proposition.?
hThe spatio-temporal trace of Y is accessiblefrom X, without the intervention of entitiesexteriors to the ones described in the sentence.?
qThe description of the eventuality in which X isacting implies the entity denoted by Y in itssame spatio-temporal trace.The comitativity meaning belongs to theinfluence family.
The meanings instantiating thespatio-temporal trace notion can be described assignaling a channel as well, and do not have tobe confused with spatio-temporal juxtaposition.The regulation of spatio-temporal traces cantake different forms according to the possiblemeanings: instrumental, manner of part-wholerelation.In the case of instrumental, the regulation ofthe spatio-temporal traces takes the form of acontrol of X over Y.
In the following scenario,John "reads" the manual:(14) Jean apprend l'histoire avec un nouveaumanuel / John learns history with a new manualFor manner, the regulation takes the form ofthe relation source / feeling: John is the sourceof the joy:(15) Jean parle ?
Marie avec joie / John talks toMary with joyFinally, for the part-whole relation, theregulation of the spatio-temporal traces of theentities linked by avec is inscribed at thereferent level:(16) Une maison avec une terrasse / A housewith a terrace5.1 Prediction and pragmatic inferenceGiven this configuration of senses andmeanings, we can now come back to the moregeneral and speculative discussion.
Avec showsa clear variability on the horizontal axis, and acomplex organisation on the vertical axis.
Firstof all, the distinction between notions and valuesroughly corresponds to the sense / meaning.
Theterm notion, clearly implies that the definitionhas a cognitive reality and is probably learnedand stored as such.On the vertical level there is a difference innature between notions and values: notions canbe considered as models for values.
The overallabstract notion defined in (12) is a model foravec.The issue related to the predictive power ofour model is still open.To affirm that a model is predictive meansto recognize that it is possible to generate all andonly the observed meanings by an appropriaterule system.
In spite of the fact that we havereconstructed an under-specified and generalmodel for avec, we must recognize that it isimpossible by virtue of the definition in (12) togenerate all (and only) its meanings.The main reason is philosophically evident:to generate such meanings one shouldpreviously know them and because we do nothave an access to all the existing corpora, it isimpossible to affirm that the model generates allthe possible meanings.
This argument has beenwell known since Wittgenstein (1953/1961).Nevertheless, we believe that we can findmore than pure family resemblances.
First of all,even if very abstract, the polysemous domain ofprepositions seems well structured: thedefinitions of the notions that we haveinductively found show that it is possible toidentify with a certain precision the semanticdomain of avec.
Moreover, our model constrainsthe licit interpretations.It follows that in spite of being predictive,our model allows to formulate inferences.Consider the interface between semanticsand pragmatics.
On a semantic level we haveadmitted that avec creates a scenario that can bedescribed in terms of a distributed systemregularly linking the properties of two or moreentities / events.
On a pragmatic level we canconclude that when using avec, the speakerwants to signal the existence of such acorrelation.
The hearer will then infer that aregular association exists between the entities /events linked by avec in the sentence uttered bythe speaker, and that such an association must besought.
Let us look at an example.
(17) Avec les stylos dans le verre, la policedonne des PV / With the pens in the glass thepolice give parking ticketsConsider a situation where a speaker and ahearer trust each other, that is to say, a situationwhere pragmatic irrelevance is not a matter.
Ifthe speaker utters a sentence such as (18), thehearer will be looking for a non accidentalassociation between the events (as kind ofentities) associated by avec: namely the fact thatthe pens are in the glass and that the police givetickets.This is exactly what the model we havebuilt for avec allows us to infer: the two eventsof the pens being in the glass and the policegiving parking tickets are thought, said andinterpreted as regularly (vs. non accidentally)associated.This is the case for many familiar examples,occurring in different syntactic environments:(18) Avec la pluie, je suis de mauvais humeur /With this rain, I am in a bad mood(19) J?ai mis les verres avec les carafes / I putthe glasses with the pitchersThis observation leads us to conclude thatthe model is expressive enough to begeneralized and to constrain the interpretationsof apparently very different meanings.
A clearerformalization of these speculative conclusionson the contextual interpretation of under-specified representations is currently underconstruction.Acknowledgments Many thanks to PatrickSaint-Dizier and Jacques Jayez for their carefulreadings and useful suggestions.ReferencesBarwise, Jon and Jerry Seligman.
1997.
TheLogic of Distributed Systems.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Binnick, Robert I.
1991.
Time and the Verb.
AGuide to Tense and Aspect.
OxfordUniversity Press, Oxford.Br?ndal, Viggo.
1950.
Th?orie des pr?positions.Introduction ?
une s?mantique rationnelle.Munksgaard, Copenhague.Cadiot, Pierre.
1997.
Les pr?positions abstraitesen Fran?ais.
Armand Colin, Paris.Jackendoff, Ray.
1987.
The Status of ThematicRelations in Linguistic Theory.
LinguisticInquiry, 18:369-412.Kratzer, Angelika.
(1989).
An Investigation ofthe Lumps of Thought.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, 12:607-653.Lasersohn, Peter 1998.
Events in the Semanticsof Collectivizing Adverbials.
In S. Rothstein(editor), Events and Grammar.
: KluwerAcademic Publisher, Dordrecht, pages 273-292.Mari, Alda and Patrick Saint-Dizier.
2000.
SomePrinciples for Implementing Underspecificationin NLP Systems.
In D.N.
Christodoulakis,editor, Natural Language Processing ?
NLP2000.
Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence,Springer Verlag, Berlin, pages 69-80.Mari, Alda.
2000.
Polys?mie et d?cidabilit?.
Lecas de avec ou l'association par les canaux.PhD Thesis, EHESS, Paris.Penczek, Wojciech.
1995.
Branching Time andPartial Order in Temporal Logics.
In L. Bolcand A. Szalas, editors, Time and Logic.
AComputational Approach, UCL Press,London, pages 179-228.Pinkal, Manfred.
1985.
Logic and Lexicon.Oxford University Press, Oxford.Poesio, Massimo.
1996.
Semantic ambiguity andperceived ambiguity.
In S. Peters and K. vanDeemter, editors, Semantic Ambiguity andUnderspecification.
CSLI, Stanford,pages 159-202.Spang-Hanssen, Ebbe.
(1963).
Les pr?positionsincolores du Fran?ais moderne.
G.E.C.
GadsForlag, Copenhague.Wierzbicka, Anna.
1996.
Semantics.
Primes andUniversals.
Oxford University Press, OxfordWittgenstein, Ludwig.
1953/1961.
TractatusLogico-Philosophicus.
Gallimard, Paris.
