Plaesarn: Machine-Aided Translation Tool for English-to-ThaiPrachya Boonkwan and Asanee KawtrakulSpecialty Research Unit of Natural Language Processingand Intelligent Information System TechnologyDepartment of Computer EngineeringKasetsart UniversityEmail: ak@vivaldi.cpe.ku.ac.thAbstractEnglish-Thai MT systems are nowadays re-stricted by incomplete vocabularies and trans-lation knowledge.
Users must consequently ac-cept only one translation result that is some-times semantically divergent or ungrammatical.With the according reason, we propose novelInternet-based translation assistant software inorder to facilitate document translation fromEnglish to Thai.
In this project, we utilizethe structural transfer model as the mechanism.This project differs from current English-ThaiMT systems in the aspects that it empowers theusers to manually select the most appropriatetranslation from every possibility and to manu-ally train new translation rules to the system ifit is necessary.
With the applied model, we over-come four translation problems?lexicon rear-rangement, structural ambiguity, phrase trans-lation, and classifier generation.
Finally, westarted the system evaluation with 322 ran-domly selected sentences on the Future Mag-azine bilingual corpus and the system yielded59.87% and 83.08% translation accuracy for thebest case and the worse case based on 90.1%average precision of the parser.IntroductionInformation comprehension of Thai peopleshould not be only limited in Thai; in con-trast, it should also include a considerably largeamount of information sources from foreigncountries.
Insufficient basic language knowl-edge, a result of inadequate distribution in thepast, conversely, is the major obstruction for in-formation comprehension.
There are presentlyseveral English-Thai MT systems?for instance,Parsit (Sornlertlamvanich, 2000), Plae Thai,and AgentDict.
The first one applies seman-tic transfer model via the methodology similarto the lexical functional grammar (Kaplan etal., 1989) and it is develop with the intention ofpublic use.
The latter two implicitly apply thedirect transfer model with the purpose of com-mercial use.
Nonetheless, by limited vocabular-ies and translation rules, the users must acceptthe only one translation result that is occasion-ally semantically divergent or ungrammatical.Due to the according reason, we initiatedthis project in order to relieve language prob-lem of Thai people.
In this project, we de-velop a semi-automatic translation system toassist them to translate English documents intoThai.
For this paper, the term semi-automatictranslation means the sentence translation withuser interaction to manually resolve structuraland semantic ambiguities during translation pe-riod.
Despite manual disambiguation, we pro-vided a simple statistical disambiguation in or-der to pre-select the most possible translationfor each source language sentence, though.
Theautomatic semantic disambiguation can be thusexcluded with this approach.1 Translation ApproachesWe can classify current translation approachesinto three major models as follows?structuraltransfer, semantic transfer, and lexical transfer(Trujillo, 1999).?
Structural transfer: this methodologyheavily depends on syntactic analysis (say,grammar).
Translation transfers the sourcelanguage structures into the target lan-guage.
This method is established bythe assumption that every language in theworld uses syntactic structure in order torepresent the meaning of sentences.?
Semantic transfer: this methodologyheavily depends on semantic analysis (say,meaning).
This model applies syntacticanalysis as well.
On the contrary to thestructural transfer, a source language sen-tence is not immediately translated intothe target language, but it is first trans-lated into semantic representation (Inter-lingua is mostly referred), and afterwardsinto the target language.
This method isestablished by the assumption that everylanguage in the world describes the sameworld; hence, there exists the semantic rep-resentation for every language.?
Lexical transfer: this methodology heav-ily depends on lexicon ordering patterns.The translation occurs at the level of mor-pheme.
The translation process transfersa set of morpheme in the source languageinto that of the target language.In this project, we decided to utilize the struc-tural transfer approach, since it is more ap-propriate for rapid development.
In addition,semantic representation that covers every lan-guage is now still under research.2 Relevant Problems and TheirSolutions2.1 Structural AmbiguityBy the reason of the ambiguities of natural lan-guages, a sentence may be translated or inter-preted into many senses.
An example of struc-tural ambiguity is ?I saw a girl in the park witha telescope.?
This sentence can be grammati-cally interpreted into four senses as follows.?
I saw a girl, to whom a telescope belonged,who was in the park.?
I used a telescope to see a girl, who was inthe park.?
I was in the park and seeing a girl, to whoma telescope belonged.?
I was in the park and using a telescope tosee a girl.Furthermore, an example of word-sense am-biguity is ?I live near the bank.?
The noun bankcan be semantically interpreted into at least twosenses as follows.?
n. a financial institution that accepts de-posits and channels the money into lendingactivities?
n. sloping land (especially the slope besidea body of water)In order to resolve structural ambiguity, weapply the concept of the statistical machinetranslation approach (Brown et al, 1990).
Weapply the Maximum-Entropy-Inspired Parser(Charniak, 1999) (so-called Charniak Parser) toanalyze and determine the appropriate gram-matical structure of an English sentence.
From(Charniak, 1999), Charniak presented that theparser uses the Penn Tree Bank tag set (Marcuset al, 1994) (or PTB in abbreviation) as a gram-matical structure representation, and it yielded90.1% average precision for sentences of length40 or less, and 89.5% for sentences of length100 and less.
Moreover, with the intention toresolve word-sense ambiguity, we embedded anumerical statistic value with each translationrule (including lexical transfer rule) with themajor aim of assisting to select the best transla-tion parse tree from every possibility (Charniak,1997).
Section 3.4 will describe the method andthe tool to do so.2.2 Phrase TranslationPhrase is a word-ordering pattern that cannotbe separately translated.
An example is thetranslation of the verb to be.
The translationof that depends on the context?for instance,to be succeeding with noun phrase is trans-lated to ????
/penm/, succeeding with preposi-tional phrase to ????
/yuul/, in progressive tensesto ?????
/kammlangm/, in passive voice to ??
?/thuukl/, and succeeding with adjectival phraseto translation omission.
Another example is theverbal phrase to look for something.
It mustbe translated to ?????
/m?
?ngmhaar/ not to?????????
/m?
?ngm samrrabl/.
The word lookis translated to ???
/m?
?ngm/, and for to??????
/samrrabl/.From empirical observation, we found thatthe PTB tag set is rather problematical totranslate into Thai.
We hence implement theparse tree modification process in order to re-lieve the complexity of transformation process(Trujillo, 1999).
In this process, the heads ofthe tree are recursively modified so as to facili-tate phrase translation.
A portion of parse treemodification rules shown on Table 1 is describedin parenthesis format.Obviously, from Table 1, we can more easilycompose the rules in Table 2 to translate theverb to be and the phrasal verb look for some-thing.2.3 Lexicon RearrangementIn English, we can normally modify a cer-tain core noun with modifiers in two ways?Table 1: Rules for the parse tree modificationprocessOriginal PTB Modified(VP (AUX (be)) (NP)) (VP (be) (NP))(VP (AUX (be)) (PP)) (VP (be) (PP))(VP (AUX (be)) (VP(VBG) *))(VP (be) (VBG) *)(VP (AUX (be)) (VP (VBN)*))(VP (be) (VBN) *)(VP (AUX (be)) (ADJP)) (VP (be) (ADJP))(VP (VBP (look)) (PP (IN(for)) (NP)))(VP (look) (for) (NP))Table 2: Rules to translate the verb to be andthe verbal phrase look for somethingEnglish Rules Thai RulesVP ?
be NP VP ?
????
NPVP ?
be PP VP ?
????
PPVP ?
be VBG VP ?
?????
VBGVP ?
be VBN VP ?
???
VBNVP ?
be ADJP VP ?
ADJPVP ?
look up NP VP ?
?????
NPputting them in front of or behind it.
Wewill focus the first case in this paper.
Theproblem occurs as soon as we would like totranslate a sequence of nouns and a sequenceof adjectives.
The first case is translatedbackwards, while the second forwards.
Anexample for this problem is that ?she is abeautiful diligent slim laboratory member?
istranslated to ??????????????????????????????/th?
?mpenm salmaamchikh thiif suayr khalyanrph??mr/.
The word she is translated to ??
?,is to ???
?, member to ?????
?, laboratory to ???
?,beautiful to ??
?, diligent to ???
?, and slim to ??
?.With the purpose to solve this problem, wefirst group nouns and adjectives into groups?NNS and ADJS?and we apply a number ofstructural transfer rules.
Table 3 shows a por-tion of transfer rules.Table 3: A portion of structural transfer rulesto solve the lexicon reorderingEnglish Rules Thai RulesNP ?
ADJS NNS NP ?
NNS ADJSADJS ?
adj ADJS ?
adjADJS ?
adj ADJS ADJS ?
adj ADJSNNS ?
nn NNS ?
nnNNS ?
nn NNS NNS ?
NNS nn2.4 Classifier GenerationThe vital linguistic divergence between Englishand Thai is head-noun-corresponding classifiers(Lamduan, 1983).
In English, classifiers arenever used in order to identify the numeric num-ber of a noun or definiteness.
On the contrary,classifiers are generally used in Thai?for ex-ample, in English, a number precedes a nounphrase; but in contrast, a classifier together withthe number succeeds in Thai.In order to generate a classifier, we developthe classifier matching algorithm.
By empiricalobservation, it is noticeable that the head nounin the noun phrase always indicates the classi-fier.
For example, supposing the rules in Table 4are amassed in the linguistic knowledge base.Table 4: An example of rules for classifier gen-erationHead Noun Classifier??
/rothh/ ???
/khanm/????
/rothhfaim/ ????
/khalbuanm/Thus, we can revise ???????????????
?/rothhfaim h?l tiimlangmkaam/ 3 <cl>?and ???????
/rothhyonm/ 4 <cl>?
can berespectively revised to ????????????????
3 ?????
(three roller coasters) and ???????
4 ????
(fourautomobiles).
If there is no rule that can matchthe noun phrase, its head noun is used as theclassifier (Lamduan, 1983)?for example, ?????
?Figure 1: System Overview/praltheesf/ is a Thai word that there is, infact, no corresponding classifier.
As soon aswe would like to specify, as the latter example,the numeric number, we say ????????????????
3???????
/praltheesf phathhthahnaam l?
?wh/(three developed countries).3 System OverviewAs illustrated in the Figure 1, the system com-prises of four principle components?syntacticanalysis, structural transformation, sentencegeneration, and linguistic knowledge acquisi-tion.3.1 Syntactic Analysis and Parse-TreeModificationIn this process, we analyze each sentence of thesource documents with the Charniak Parser andafterwards transform each of which into a parsetree.The first process that we have to accomplishfirst is the sentence boundary identification.
Inthis step, we require users to manually pre-pare sentence boundaries by inserting a new-linecharacter among sentences.The next step is the sentence-parsing process.We analyze the surface structure of a sentencewith the Charniak Parser.
In this case, the orig-inal Charniak Parser nevertheless spends longtime for self-initiation to load its considerablyhuge database.
Consequently, we patched it tobe a client-server program so as to eliminatesuch time.As stated earlier, in the view of the fact thatparse trees generated by the Charniak Parserare quite complicated to translate into Thai, wetherefore implement the parse tree modificationprocess (see Section 2.2).3.2 Structural TransformationThis process performs recursive transformationfrom the source language parse trees into a set ofcorresponding Thai translation parse trees withtheir probabilities.
As stated earlier, there aresome complexity in order to transfer a PTB-formatted parse tree into Thai, we thus imple-mented the parse tree modification process (seeSection 2.2) before performing transformation.The transformation relies on the transformationrules from the linguistic knowledge base.A single step of transformation processmatches the root node and single-depth childnodes with the transformation rules and after-wards returns a set of transformation produc-tions.
As stated earlier, we embedded the prob-ability of each rule.
The probability of a parsetree pi is given by the equationP (pi) = ?
(cpi, cpi1 , cpi2 , cpi3 , .
.
.
, cpin)n?k=1P (pik)where pik is the k-th subtree of the parse tree piwhose number of member subtrees is n, cpi rep-resents the constituent of the tree pi, and ?
is aprobability relation that maps the constituentsof the root and its single-depth children to theprobability value.3.3 Sentence GenerationThis process generates a target language sen-tence from the parse tree.
This stage also re-lies on the linguistic knowledge base.
The addi-tional process is the noun classifier.
We applythe methodology defined in classifier matchingalgorithm (see Section 2.4).
Finally, the systemwill show the translations of the most possibil-ity and let the users change each solution if theywould like to do so.3.4 Linguistic Knowledge AcquisitionWe provided an advantageous tool so as to man-ually train new translation knowledge.
Cur-rently, it comprises of the translation rulelearner and the English-Thai unknown wordaligner (Kampanya et al, 2002).In this module, the translation rule learnerobtains document and analyzes that into a setof parse trees.
Afterwards, the users manuallyteach it the rules to grammatically translate acertain tree from the source language into thetarget language with the rules following to theBackus-Naur Form (Lewis and Paradimitriou,1998) (or BNF in abbreviation).
This modulewill determine whether the rule is re-trained.If so, the module will raise the probability ofthat rule up.
If not, it will add that rule to theknowledge base.Moreover, the aligner is utilized to automat-ically update the bilingual dictionary.
For ourfuture work, we intend to develop a system toautomatically learn new translation rules fromour corpora.4 EvaluationWe established the system evaluation on the Fu-ture Magazine bilingual corpus.
We categorizedthe evaluation into two environments?underrestricted knowledge base and under increasingknowledge base.
Each of which is also catego-rized into two environments?with parsing er-rors and without parsing errors.In the evaluation, we randomly selected 322sentences from the corpus.
In order to havea manageable task and facilitate performancemeasurement, we classify translation result intothe following three categories?exact (the sameas in the corpus), moderate (understandableresult), and incomprehensible (obviously non-understandable result).
Table 5 shows the eval-uation results.In this evaluation, we consider the results inthe exact and moderate categories as reason-Table 5: Evaluation Results (in percentages)The column A represents evaluation with restricted knowl-edge base and with parsing errors, B as with restricted knowl-edge base but without parsing errors, C as with increasingknowledge base but with parsing errors, and D as with in-creasing knowledge base and without parsing errors.Categories A B C DExact 3.97 4.41 4.97 5.52Moderate 55.90 62.04 69.88 77.56Incomprehensible 40.13 33.55 25.15 16.92Accuracy 59.87 66.45 74.85 83.08able translations.
Moreover, we also considerthat the evaluation with restricted knowledgebase and with parsing errors is the worst caseperformance, and the evaluation with increas-ing knowledge base and without parsing errorsis the best case performance.From the constraints we established, we foundthat the system yielded the translation accuracyfor 59.87% for the worst case and 83.08% for thebest case.5 ConclusionsIn this paper, we propose novel Internet-basedtranslation assistant software in order to fa-cilitate document translation from English toThai.
We utilize the structural transfer modelas the translation mechanism.
This project dif-fers from the current MT systems in the pointthat the users have a capability to manually se-lect the most appropriate translation, and theycan, in addition, teach new translation knowl-edge if it is necessary.The four translation problems?Lexicon Re-arrangement, Structural Ambiguity, PhraseTranslation, and Classifier Generation?are ac-complished with various methodologies.
To re-solve the lexicon rearrangement problem, wecompose a number of structural transfer rules.For the structural ambiguity, we apply the sta-tistical method by embedding probability val-ues to each transfer rules.
In order to relieve thecomplexity of the phrase translation, we developthe parse tree modification process to modifysome tree structure so as to more easily composetranslation rules.
Finally, with the purpose ofresolving the classifier generation problem, wedefine the classifier matching algorithm whichmatches the longest head noun to the appropri-ate classifier.In the evaluation, we established the sys-tem experiment on the Future Magazine bilin-gual corpus and we categorized the evaluationinto two environments?under restricted knowl-edge base and under increasing knowledge base.From the evaluation, the system yielded thetranslation accuracy for 59.87% for the worstcase and 83.08% for the best case.ReferencesPeter F. Brown, John Cocke, Stephen DellaPietra, Vincent J. Della Pietra, Frederick Je-linek, John D. Lafferty, Robert L. Mercer,and Paul S. Roossin.
1990.
A statisticalapproach to machine translation.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 16(2):79?85.Eugene Charniak.
1997.
Statistical parsingwith a context-free grammar and word statis-tics.
In AAAI/IAAI, pages 598?603.Eugene Charniak.
1999.
A maximum-entropy-inspired parser.
Technical Report CS-99-12,Brown Laboratory for Natural Language Pro-cessing.Nithiwat Kampanya, Prachya Boonkwan, andAsanee Kawtrakul.
2002.
Bilingual unknownword alignment tool for english-thai.
In Pro-ceedings of the SNLP-Oriental COCOSDA,Specialty Research Unit of Natural Lan-guage Processing and Intelligent Informa-tion System Technology, Kasetsart Univer-sity, Bangkok, Thailand.Ronald M. Kaplan, Klaus Netter, Ju?rgenWedekind, and Annie Zaenen.
1989.
Trans-lation by structural correspondences.
In Pro-ceedings of the 4th.
Annual Meeting of theEuropean Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 272?281,UMIST, Manchester, England.Somchai Lamduan, 1983.
Thai Grammar (inThai), chapter 4: Parts of Speech, pages 128?131.
Odeon Store Publisher.Harry R. Lewis and Christos H. Paradimitriou,1998.
Elements of the Theory of Compu-tation, chapter 3: Context-Free Grammar.Prentice-Hall International Inc.Mitchell P. Marcus, Beatrice Santorini, andMary Ann Marcinkiewicz.
1994.
Buildinga large annotated corpus of english: Thepenn treebank.
Computational Linguistics,19(2):313?330.Virach Sornlertlamvanich.
2000.
The state ofthe art in thai language processing.Arturo Trujillo, 1999.
Translation Engines:Techniques for Machine Translation, chapter6: Transfer MT, pages 121?166.
Springer-Verlag (London Limited).
