Broadening the Scope of the EAGLES/ISLE LexicalStandardization InitiativeNicoletta CALZOLARIIstituto di Linguistica Computazionale, CNRArea della Ricerca, Via Moruzzi 1Pisa, Italy, 56100glottolo@ilc.cnr.itAlessandro LENCIDipartimento di Linguistica, Universit?
di PisaVia S. Maria 36Pisa, Italy, 56100alessandro.lenci@ilc.cnr.itFrancesca BERTAGNADipartimento di Linguistica, Universit?
di PisaVia S. Maria 36Pisa, Italy, 56100francesca.bertagna@ilc.cnr.itAntonio ZAMPOLLIIstituto di Linguistica Computazionale, CNRArea della Ricerca, Via Moruzzi 1Pisa, Italy, 56100pisa@ilc.cnr.itAbstractISLE is a continuation of the long standing EAGLES initiative and it is supported by EC and NSF under theHuman Language Technology (HLT) programme.
Its objective is to develop widely agreed and urgentlydemanded standards and guidelines for infrastructural language resources, tools, and HLT products.EAGLES itself is a well-known trademark and point of reference for HLT projects and products and itsprevious results have already become de facto widely adopted standards.
Multilingual computationallexicons, natural interaction and multimodality, and evaluation are the three areas targeted by ISLE.
In thefirst section of the paper we describe the overall goals and methodology of EAGLES/ISLE, in the secondsection we focus on the work of the Computational Lexicon Working Group, introducing its work strategyand the preliminary guidelines of a standard framework for multilingual computational lexicons, based on ageneral schema for the ?Multilingual ISLE Lexical Entry?
(MILE).1 Introducing EAGLES/ISLEISLE (International Standards for LanguageEngineering) is a continuation of the longstanding European EAGLES (Expert AdvisoryGroup for Language Engineering Standards)initiative (Calzolari et al, 1996), carried outthrough a number of subsequent projectsfunded by the European Commission (EC)since 1993.
ISLE is an initiative under theHuman Language Technology (HLT)programme within the EU-US InternationalResearch Co-operation with the aim to developand promote widely agreed and urgentlydemanded HLT standards, common guidelinesand best practice recommendations forinfrastructural language resources (Zampolli,1998), (Calzolari, 1998), tools that exploitthem, and language engineering products.Object of EAGLES/ISLE are large-scalelanguage resources (such as text corpora,computational lexicons, speech corpora,multimodal resources), means of manipulatingsuch knowledge via computational linguisticformalisms, mark-up languages and varioussoftware tools and means of assessing andevaluating  resources, tools and products(EAGLES EWG final report, 1996).EAGLES was set up to determine whichaspects of our field are open to short-term defacto  standardisation and to encourage thedevelopment of such standards for the benefitof consumers and producers of languagetechnology, through bringing togetherrepresentatives of major collaborativeEuropean R&D projects, and of HLT industry,in relevant areas.
In this respect, more than 150leading industrial and academic players in theHLT field have actively participated in thedefinition of this initiative and have lentinvaluable support to its execution.Successful standards are those which respondto commonly perceived needs or aid inovercoming common problems.
In terms ofoffering workable, compromise solutions, theymust be based on some solid platform ofaccepted facts and acceptable practices.The current ISLE project1 targets the threeareas of :-multilingual computational lexicons2,-natural interaction and multimodality(NIMM)3,-evaluation of HLT systems4.For multilingual computational lexicons, ISLEgoals are: i) extending EAGLES work onlexical semantics, necessary to establish inter-language links; ii) designing and proposingstandards for multilingual lexicons; iii)developing a prototype tool to implementlexicon guidelines and standards; iv) creatingexemplary EAGLES-conformant samplelexicons and tagging exemplary corpora forvalidation purposes; v) developingstandardised evaluation procedures forlexicons.For NIMM, ISLE work is targeted to developguidelines for: i) the creation of NIMM dataresources; ii) interpretative annotation ofNIMM data, including spoken dialogue inNIMM contexts; iii) metadata descriptions forlarge NIMM resources; iv) annotation ofdiscourse phenomena.For evaluation, ISLE is working on: i) qualitymodels for machine translation systems; ii)maintenance of previous guidelines - in an ISObased framework (ISO 9126, ISO 14598).Three Working Groups, and their sub-groups,carry out the work, according to the EAGLES1 Coordinated by A. Zampolli for EU and M. Palmer forUS, seehttp://www.ilc.pi.cnr.it/EAGLES96/isle/ISLE_Home_Page.htm.2 EU chair: N. Calzolari; US chairs: M. Palmer and R.Grishman.3 EU chair: N. O. Bernsen; US chair: M. Liberman.4 EU chair: M. King; US chair: E. Hovy.methodology, with experts from both the EUand US, acting as a catalyst in order to poolconcrete results coming from majorinternational/national/industrial projects.Relevant common practices or upcomingstandards are being used where appropriate asinput to EAGLES/ISLE work.
Numeroustheories, approaches, and systems are beingtaken into account as any recommendation forharmonisation must take into account the needsand nature of the different major contemporaryapproaches.Results are widely disseminated, after duevalidation in collaboration with EU and USHLT R&D projects, National projects, andindustry.In the following we concentrate on theComputational Lexicon Working Group(CLWG), trying to describe its specificmethodology and its goal of establishing ageneral and consensual standardizedenvironment for the development andintegration of multilingual resources.
Thegeneral vision adheres to the idea of enhancingthe sharing and reusability of multilinguallexical resources, by promoting the definitionof a common parlance for the community ofmultilingual HLT and computational lexicondevelopers.
The CLWG pursues this goal byproposing a general schema for the encoding ofmultilingual lexical information, the MILE(Multilingual ISLE Lexical Entry).
This has tobe intended as a meta-entry, acting as acommon representational layer for multilinguallexical resources.We describe the preliminary proposals ofguidelines for the MILE, highlighting somemethodological principles applied in previousEAGLES.2 The Computational LexiconWorking GroupExisting EAGLES results in the Lexicon andCorpus areas are currently adopted by animpressive number of European - and recentlyalso National ?
projects and has became the?de-facto standard?
for LR in Europe.
This is avery good measure of the impact ?
and of theneed ?
of such a standardisation initiative inthe HLT sector.
To mention just a few keyexamples:- the LE PAROLE/SIMPLE resources(morphological/syntactic/semantic  lexiconsand corpora for 12 EU languages (Zampolli,1997) (Ruimy et al, 1998) (Lenci et al,1999) (Bel et al, 2000) rely on EAGLESresults (Sanfilippo et al, 1996) (Sanfilippoet al, 1999), and are now being enlarged toreal-size lexicons through many NationalProjects, thus building a really largeinfrastructural platform of harmonisedlexicons in Europe, sharing the same model;- the ELRA Validation Manuals for Lexicons(Underwood and Navarreta, 1997) andCorpora (Burnard et al, 1997) are based onEAGLES guidelines;- morpho-syntactic encoding of lexicons andtagging of corpora in a very large number ofEU, international and national projects ?
andfor more than 20 languages ?
is conformantto EAGLES recommendations (Monachiniand Calzolari, 1996) (Monachini andCalzolari, 1999) (Leech and Wilson, 1996).Standards must emerge from state -of-the-artdevelopments.
The process of standardisation,although by its own nature not intrinsicallyinnovative, must ?
and actually does ?
proceedshoulder to shoulder with the most advancedresearch.
Since ISLE involves many bodiesactive in EU-US NLP and speech projects,close collaboration with these projects isassured and, significantly, free manpower hasbeen contributed by the projects, as a sign ofboth their commitment and of the crucialimportance they place on reusability issues.Lexical semantics has always represented asort of wild frontier in the investigation ofnatural language.
In fact, the number of openissues in lexical semantics both on therepresentational, architectural and content levelmight induce an actually unjustified negativeattitude towards the possibility of designingstandards in this difficult territory.
Rather tothe contrary, standardisation must be conceivedas enucleating and singling out the areas in theopen field of lexical semantics, that alreadypresent themselves with a clear and highdegree of stability, although this is oftenhidden behind a number of formal differencesor representational variants, that prevent thepossibility of exploiting and enhancing theaspects of commonality and the alreadyconsolidated achievements.With no intent of imposing any constraints oninvestigation and experimentation, the ISLECLWG rather aims at selecting mature areasand results in computational lexical semanticsand in multilingual lexicons, which can also beregarded as stabilised achievements, thus to beused as the basis for future research.
Therefore,consolidation of a standards proposal must beviewed, by necessity, as a slow processcomprising, after the phase of putting forwardproposals, a cyclical phase involving ISLEexternal groups and projects with: i) carefulevaluation and testing of recommendations inconcrete applications; ii) application, ifappropriate, to a large number of Europeanlanguages; iii) feedback on and readjustment ofthe proposals until a stable platform is reached;dissemination and promotion of consensualrecommendations.The process of standard definition undertakenby CLWG represents an essential interfacebetween advanced research in the field ofmultilingual lexical semantics, and thepractical task of developing resources for HLTsystems and applications.
It is through thisinterface that the crucial trade-off betweenresearch practice and applicative needs willactually be achieved.In what follows we briefly describe the two-step strategy adopted in the journey towardsstandards design: a first activity of survey ofexisting multilingual resources both in theEuropean and American research and industrialscenarios.
A second ongoing phase aiming atindividuating hot areas on the domains ofmultilingual lexical resources, which call ?
andde facto  can access to ?
a process ofstandardisation.2.1 Preliminary Step: the Survey PhaseFollowing the well established EAGLESmethodology, the first priority was to do awide-range survey of bilingual/multilingual (orsemantic monolingual) lexicons, so as to reacha fair level of coverage of existing lexicalresources.
With respect to this target, one ofthe first objectives is to discover and list the(maximal) set of (granular) basic notionsneeded to describe the multilingual level.
TheSurvey of existing lexicons (Calzolari,Grishman and Palmer, 2001) has beenaccompanied by the analysis of therequirements of a few multilingualapplications, and by the parallel analysis oftypical cross-lingually complex phenomena5.The main issue is how to state in the mostproper way the translation correspondencesamong entries in the multilingual lexicon.
Thepassage from source language (SL) to targetlanguage (TL) makes it necessary to expressvery complex and articulated transferconditions , which have to take into account asdifficult and pervasive phenomena as argumentswitching, multi-word expressions,collocational patterns, etc.The function of an entry in a multilinguallexicon is to supply enough information toallow the system to identify a distinct sense ofa word or phrase in SL, in many differentcontexts, and reliably associate each contextwith the most appropriate translation.
The firststep is to determine, of all the information thatcan be associated with SL lexical entries, whatis the most relevant to a particular task.
Wedecided to focus the work of survey andsubsequent recommendations around twomajor broad categories of application: MachineTranslation and Cross-Language InformationRetrieval.
They have partiallydifferent/complementary needs, and can beconsidered to represent the requirements ofother application types.
It is necessary in factto ensure that any guidelines meet therequirements of industrial applications and thatthey are implementable.In the Survey, some Korean and Japaneseexamples were present in the case studydedicated to relevant cross-linguisticphenomena, (e. g. sense distinctions accordingto variation in syntactic frames/semantic type/5 Contributors are: Atkins, Bel, Bertagna, Bouillon,Calzolari, Dorr, Fellbaum, Grishman, Habash, Lange,Lehmann, Lenci, McCormick, McNaught, Ogonowski,Palmer, Pentheroudakis, Richardson, Thurmair,Vanderwende, Villegas, Vossen, Zampolli.domain information, differences in predicateargument structure, argument incorporation,conflation, head switching etc).2.2 Towards the Recommendation Phase:designing the MILE ArchitectureSince the architecture of the PAROLE-SIMPLE lexicons has been selected to providethe necessary bootstrapping basis for thestepwise refinement cycle leading to MILE, webriefly provide here some information aboutthese resources.
The design of the SIMPLElexicons (Bel et al, 2000) complies with theEAGLES Lexicon/Semantics Working Groupguidelines (Sanfilippo et al, 1999), and the setof recommended semantic notions.The SIMPLE lexicons are built as a new layerconnected to the PAROLE syntactic layer, andencode structured ?semantic types?
andsemantic (subcategorization) frames.
Theycover 12 languages (Catalan, Danish, Dutch,English, Finnish, French, German, Greek,Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish).
Thecommon model is designed to facilitate futurecross-language linking: they share the samecore ontology and the same set of semantictemplates.The ?conceptual core?
of the lexicons consistsof the basic structured set of ?semantic types?
(the SIMPLE ontology) and the basic set ofnotions to be encoded for each Semantic Unit(SemU): domain information, lexicographicgloss, argument structure, selectionalrestrictions/preferences on the arguments,event type, links of the arguments to thesyntactic subcategorization frames asrepresented in the PAROLE lexicons, ?qualia?structure, following the Generative Lexicon(Pustejovsky, 1995), semantic relations, etc..SIMPLE and PAROLE lexicons are layeredresources, with links between themorphological and syntactic layers expressedin PAROLE and the semantic informationpresent in SIMPLE.In its general design, also MILE is envisagedas a highly modular and layered architecture asdescribed in Calzolari et al (2001).
Modularityconcerns the ?horizontal?
MILE organization,in which independent and yet linked modulestarget different dimensions of lexical entries.On the other hand, at the ?vertical?
level, alayered organization is necessary to allow fordifferent degrees of granularity of lexicaldescriptions, so that both ?shallow?
and ?deep?representations of lexical items can becaptured.
This feature is particularly crucial inorder to stay open to the different styles andapproaches to the lexicon adopted by existingmultilingual systems.At the top level, MILE includes two mainmodules, mono-MILE, providing monolinguallexical representations, and multi-MILE, wheremultilingual correspondences are defined.
Withthis design choice the ISLE-CLWG intendsalso to address the particularly complex andyet crucial issue of multilingual resourcedevelopment through the integration ofmonolingual computational lexicons.
As in thereference model, PAROLE/SIMPLE, Mono-MILE is organized into independent modules,respectively providing morphological,syntactic and semantic descriptions.
The lattersurely represents the core and the mostchallenging part of the ISLE-CLWG activities,together with the two other crucial topics ofcollocations and multi-word expressions,which have often remained outsideastandardization initiatives, and neverthelesshave a crucial role at the multilingual level.This bias is motivated by the necessity ofproviding an answer to the most urgent needsand desiderata of next generation HLT, as alsoexpressed by the industrial partnersparticipating to the project.
With respect to theissue of the representation of multi-wordexpressions in computational lexicons, theISLE-CLWG is actively cooperating with theNSF sponsored XMELLT project (Calzolari etal.,  2002).Multi-MILE specifies a formal environmentfor the characterization of multilingualcorrespondences between lexical items.
Inparticular, source and target lexical entries canbe linked by exploiting (possibly combined)aspects of their monolingual descriptions.Moreover, in multi-MILE both syntactic andsemantic lexical representations can also beenriched, so as to achieve the granularity oflexical description required to establish propermultilingual correspondences, and which ispossibly lacking in the original monolinguallexicons.According to the ISLE approach, monolinguallexicons can thus be regarded as pivot lexicalrepositories, on top of which various language-to-language multilingual modules can bedefined, where lexical correspondences areestablished by partly exploiting and partlyenriching the monolingual descriptions.
Thisarchitecture guarantees the independence ofmonolingual descriptions while allowing forthe maximum degree of flexibility andconsistency in reusing existing monolingualresources to build new bilingual lexicons.The MILE architecture is intended to providethe common representational environmentneeded to implement such an approach tomultilingual resource development, with thegoal of maximizing the reuse, integration andextension of existing monolingualcomputational lexicons.In the process of specifying the variouscomponents of MILE, the ISLE-CLWG hasadopted a two-track strategy:1) identifying the lexical dimensions andthe various types of information whichare relevant to establish multilingualcorrespondences;2) idefining a suitable formal data modelto encode this information as well asthe operations required at themultilingual level.To tackle point 1) the survey of the availablecomputational lexicons (see section 2.1) hasbeen complemented with a morelexicographic-based effort, to identify the typesof information used in bilingual dictionaries toestablish translation equivalents.
To thispurpose, the CLWG has organized two ?taskforces?
with the responsibility respectively ofcreating a sample of lexical entries andinvestigating the use of the so-called senseindicators in traditional bilingual dictionaries.The work on sense indicators has been carriedout mainly by S. Atkins and P. Bouillon: senseindicators are the  ?clues?
given by thelexicographer to the bilingual dictionary usersin order to guide them to the most appropriatechoice of equivalence in the foreign language.The source word with its syntactic category,the target words and the sense indicators wereautomatically extracted from an English-French dictionary and then the sense indicatorshave been classified on the basis of lexicalrelevant facts (cf.
Atkins et al, 2002).The aim of these activities has been twofold:on one hand, we wanted to be able to highlightthe various types of information useful todetermine the transfer conditions; on the other,we had to explore and evaluate the fullexpressive potentialities provided by thereference computational model (i.e.
thePAROLE-SIMPLE architecture).3.2 The MILE Data Structure andLexicographic EnvironmentThe CLWG is setting up a lexicographicenvironment consisting of the following fourmain components: i) the MILE Entry Skeleton,ii)  the MILE Lexical Data Categories, iii) theMILE Shared Lexical Objects, iv) the ISLELexicographic Station.The MILE Entry Skeleton, formalized as anXML DTD, is an Entity Relationship modelthat will define the general constraints for theconstruction of multilingual entries, as well asthe grammar to build the whole array of lexicalelements needed for a given lexicaldescription.The MILE Lexical Data Categories willprovide the lexical objects (syntactic andsemantic features, semantic relations, syntacticconstructions, predicates and arguments etc..)that are the basic components of MILE-conformant lexical entries.
Lexical DataCategories will be organized in a hierarchy andwill be defined using RDF schema (Brickleyand Guha, 2000) to formalize their propertiesand make their ?semantics?
explicit.The MILE Shared Lexical Objects willinstantiate the MILE Lexical Data Categories,to be used to build in an easy andstraightforward way lexical entries.
These willinclude main syntactic constructions, basicoperations and conditions to establishmultilingual links, macro-semantic objects,such as lexical conceptual templates acting asgeneral constraints for the encoding ofsemantic units.For instance, at the multilingual level it ispossible to identify a first set of basicoperations that are at the basis of multilingualtransfer tests and actions.
This would include:i) adding to a monolingual lexical entry a newsyntactic position (required for a giventranslation correspondence); ii) adding to amonolingual semantic description a newsemantic feature (required for a giventransla tion correspondence); iii) constrainingthe source-target correspondence to apply onlyif an existing syntactic position is realized by acertain type of phrase, etc.Lexical  objects will be identified by an URIand will act as a common resources for lexicalrepresentation, to be in turn described by RDFmetadata.
The defined lexical objects will beused by the lexicon (or applications)developers  to build and target lexical data at ahigher level of abstraction.
Thus, they have tobe seen as a step in the direction of simplifyingand improving the usability of the MILErecommendations.The ISLE Lexicographic Station is adevelopment platform used to automaticallygenerate a prototype tool starting from theMILE DTD.
The aim of this prototype tool isto i) exemplify the MILE entry ii)  makeextensive use of already existing monolingualresources, and iii) eventually test the guidelinesin a real scenario.
This situation led us todefine a lexicographic station developmentplatform that guarantees the portability of thefinal prototype to the final specifications aswell as to existing monolingual resourceswhich will serve as the basic data for MILE(for a detailed description, cf.
Villegas and Bel,2002).Both at monolingual and multilingual level(but with particular emphasis on the latter),ISLE intends to start up the incrementaldefinition of a more Object-Oriented layer forlexical description and to foster the vision ofopen and distributed lexicons, with elementspossibly residing in different sites of the web.3 Enlargement to Asian LanguagesAn enlargement of the group to involve alsoAsian languages is going on andrepresentatives of Chinese, Japanese, Korean,and Thai languages have contributed to ISLEwork and participated in some ISLEworkshops.The cooperation between Asia and Europe hasto be pursued also through new commoninitiatives, as the expression of interest for thecreation of an Open Distributed LexicalInfrastructure that has been submitted to theEuropean Commission for the 6th FrameworkProgramme for Research.This expression of interest is supported bymany non-EU participants, as the newlyformed Asian Federation of Natural LanguageProcessing Associations (AFNLPA), theDepartment of Computer Science of theUniversity of Tokyo, the Korean KAIST andKORTERM, the Taiwanese Institute ofLinguistics of the Academia Sinica.The Open Distributed Lexical Infrastructure, anatural development of the ISLE model, can beseen as a new paradigm of distributed lexiconcreation and maintenance and it would be astep of great importance for the fulfilment ofthe vision of the Semantic Web (Berners-Lee,1998).
The creation of such infrastructure hasto be consensual and in this regard needs thecollaboration of a group of languages as largeas possible (for example the AFNLPA bringsinto the initiative many Asian languages, suchas Chinese, Hindi, Indonesian, Japanese,Korean, Malay, Tamil, Thai and Urdu).
Aprerequisite in order to reach interoperability isthe existence of best practices and standardsthat have been consensually agreed on or havebeen submitted to the international communityas de-facto  standards.4 ConclusionsIn this paper we presented overall goals andmethodological principles of thestandardization activity of EAGLES/ISLE.
Inparticular, we describe the work of theComputational Lexicon Working Group and itseffort towards recommendations, focussing onthe MILE, the multilingual lexical meta-entryproposed as the standard representationalformat for multilingual computational lexicalresources.
Lexical representation is articulatedover different information layers, eachfactoring out different, but possibly inter-related, linguistic facets of information,relevant in order to establish multilinguallexical links.
We also pointed out the necessityto involve a broader group of languages inorder to ensure the achievement of a realconsensual standard.AcknowledgementsWe thank all the members of the ISLE CLWGfor their active participation and contribution tothis enterprise.ReferencesAtkins S., Bel N., Bertagna F., Bouillon P.,Calzolari N., Fellbaum C., Grishman R.,Lenci A., MacLeod C., Palmer M., ThurmairR., Villegas M., Zampolli A.
(2002) FromResources to Applications.
Designing TheMultilingual ISLE Lexical Entry.
InProceedings of LREC 2002, Las Palmas,Canary Islands, Spain.Bel N., Busa, F., Calzolari, N., Gola, E., Lenci,A., Monachini, M., Ogonowski, A., Peters,I., Peters, W., Ruimy, N., Villegas, M.,Zampolli A.
(2000) Simple: A GeneralFramework for the Development ofMultilingual Lexicons.
In: LRECProceedings.
Athens.Berners-Lee T. (1998) Semantic Web roadmap.
Personal note.
Available at:http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Semantic.html.Burnard L., Baker P., McEnery A., Wilson A.
(1997) An analytic framework for thevalidation of language corpora.
Report ofthe Elra Corpus Validation Group.Calzolari N (1998)  An Overview of WrittenLanguage Resources in Europe: a fewReflections, Facts, and a Vision.
In: Rubio,A., Gallardo, N., Castro, R., Tejada A.
(eds.
)Proceedings of the First InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation.
Granada 217-224.Calzolari N., Grishman R., Palmer M.
(eds.
)(2001)  Survey of major approaches towardsBilingual/Multilingual Lexicons.
ISLEDeliverable D2.1-D3.1.
PisaCalzolari N., Fillmore C.J., Grishman R., IdeN., Lenci A., MacLeod C., Zampolli A.
(2002)  Towards Best Practice for MultiwordExpressions in Computational Lexicons.
InProceedings of LREC 2002, Las Palmas,Canary Islands, Spain.Calzolari N., Lenci A., Zampolli A., Bel N.,Villegas M., Thurmair G. (2001)  The ISLEin the Ocean.
Transatlantic Standards forMultilingual Lexicons (with an eye toMachine Translation).
In Proceedings ofMachine Translation Summit VIII, Santiagode Compostela, Spain.Calzolari N., Mc Naught J., Zampolli A (1996)Eagles Final Report: Eagles Editors?Introduction.
Pisa.Eagles (1996)  Evaluation of Natural LanguageProcessing Systems.
Final Report.
CST,Copenhagen.
Also at http://issco-www.unige.ch/projects/ewg96/ewg96.html.Brickley D., Guha R. (2000) ResourceDescription Framework (RDF) SchemaSpecification 1.0, W3C CandidateRecommendation.
Available online athttp://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema.Leech G., Wilson A.
(1996) Recommendationsfor the morphosyntactic annotation ofcorpora.
Lancaster.Lenci A., Busa F., Ruimy N., Gola E.,Monachini M., Calzolari N., Zampolli A.
(1999)  Linguistic Specifications.
SimpleDeliverable D2.1.
ILC and University ofPisa.Monachini M., Calzolari N. (1996)  Synopsisand comparison of morphosyntacticphenomena encoded in lexicons and corpora.A common proposal and applications toEuropean languages.
ILC-CNR, Pisa.Monachini M., Calzolari N. (1999)Standardization in the Lexicon.
In: H. vanHalteren (ed.
): Syntactic Wordclass Tagging.Kluwer, Dordrecht 149-173.Pustejovsky J.
(1995)  The Generative Lexicon.Cambridge, MA, MIT Press.Ruimy N., Corazzari O., Gola E., Spanu A.,Calzolari N., Zampolli A.
(1998) TheEuropean LE-Parole Project: The ItalianSyntactic Lexicon.
In: Proceedings of theFirst International Conference on Languageresources and Evaluation.
Granada 241-248.Sanfilippo A. et al (1996) EaglesSubcategorization Standards.
Seehttp://www.icl.pi.cnr.it/EAGLES96/syntax/syntax.htmlSanfilippo A. et al (1999) EaglesRecommendations on Semantic Encoding..See http://www.ilc.pi.cnr.it/EAGLES96/rep2Underwood N., Navarretta C. (1997) A DraftManual for the Validation of Lexica.
FinalELRA Report.
Copenhagen.Villegas M., Bel N. (2002) From DTDs torelational dBs.
An automatic generation of alexicographical station out off ISLEguidelines.
In Proceedings of LREC 2002,Las Palmas, Canary Islands, Spain.Zampolli A.
(1997) The PAROLE project inthe general context of the European actionsfor Language Resources.
In:Marcinkeviciene, R., Volz, N.
(eds.
): TelriProceedings of the Second EuropeanSeminar: Language Applications for aMultilingual Europe.
IDS/VDU,Manheim/Kaunas.Zampolli A.
(1998) Introduction of theGeneral Chairman.
In: Rubio, A., Gallardo,N.
Castro, R., Tejada A.
(eds.
): Proceedingsof the First International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation.Granada, Spain.
