Grounding styles of aged dyads: an exploratory studyAtsue Takeoka, Atsushi ShimojimaSchool of Knowledge ScienceJapan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology1-1, Asahidai, Tatsunokuchi, Ishikawa, 923-1292, Japan{takeoka, ashimoji}@jaist.ac.jpAbstractThis paper reports an exploratory study ofthe grounding styles of older dyads, namely,the characteristic ways in which theymutually agree to have shared a piece ofinformation in dialogue.
On the basis ofTraum?s classification of grounding acts,we conducted an exploratory comparison ofdialogue data on older and younger dyads,and found that a fairly clear contrast holdsmainly in the types of acknowledgementutterances used by the two groups.
We willdiscuss the implications of this contrast,concerning how some of the negativestereotypes about conversations with olderpeople may arise from this difference ingrounding styles.1 IntroductionClark (1996) developed the notion of grounding tocapture intricate processes with which conversantsestablish a set of information as a shared commonground for on-going (and possibly subsequent)dialogue.
In a grounding process, a conversantpresents a piece of information verbally ornon-verbally, and the partner issues a particularpublic signal of the receipt, understanding, oracceptance of that information.
Once a piece ofinformation is thus incorporated into a commonground, it is available as something than can bepresupposed in subsequent communication, inwhich still another change to the common groundis worked out.On the basis of Clark?s work, Traum (1994)shows a way of substantiating the process ofgrounding in a finite-state transition model, whichspecifies what contributions to a groundingprocess can be made by individual utterances indialogue and how individual contributionscombine themselves to make a sequence thatcompletes the grounding.
In Traum?s terms, suchcontributions are grounding acts, and the units ofutterance that can perform grounding acts areutterance units, and the sequences of utteranceunits that complete are discourse units.Now, both Clark?s and Traum?s models ofgrounding are generic, in the sense that they bothadmit a significant range of forms or styles inwhich actual processes of grounding may takeplace.
That is, their models tell us what forms ofgrounding sequences are possible or well-formed,but do not tell what particular forms are mostfrequent in actual dialogues or, more specifically,what forms are most frequent in what sorts ofdialogue situations.
Thus, on the basis of Clark?sand Traum?s work, natural questions arise as togrounding styles, namely, the possibility ofcharacteristic forms of grounding sequencesadopted by particular types of conversants inparticular types of occasions.This paper investigates this question in itsspecial application to casual, non-task-orienteddialogues conducted by aged people.
Do peopledevelop a characteristic style of grounding as theyage?
If so, what exactly distinguish their groundingstyles in casual, non-task-oriented settings?To address these questions, we collected aspoken dialogue data comprising both older dyadsand younger dyads, and analyzed the groundingprocesses in our data on the basis of Traum?sfinite-state model.Why are we particularly interested in possiblegrounding styles of aged people?
It is rathercommon that younger people find difficult or getfrustrated in conversing with aged people.
Thus, acommon stereotype says that conversations withaged people are slow-paced, repetitive, andPhiladelphia, July 2002, pp.
188-195.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Proceedings of the Third SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue,therefore boring.
It is perhaps because of theseoft-felt problems that younger people often adopt?patronizing speech styles?
or ?secondary babytalk?
toward aged people, characterized byrestricted topics, childlike expressions, directivespeech, and exaggerated nonverbal signals (Ryan& Hummert, 1995) or by slower speech, variedparaphrases, decreased grammatical complexity,lower propositional density, and othermodifications (Kemper & Vandeputte, 1995).Now, it seems customary that thesecommunicative problems between older peopleand younger people are attributed to the side ofaged people only, to their difficulties in auditoryreception, alleged slowness of understanding, andalleged stubbornness in accepting new ideas.However, they may not be problems with one sideonly, nor problems with cognitive capacities orpersonal characters of aged people, but may largelycome from different grounding styles adopted bythe two groups of people.
That is, the ways theyagree to have a piece of information shared mayhave different recurrent patterns, and thisdifference may be a real cause of the difficulty andthe negative stereotype.
If so, digging out thisdifference and identifying the characteristicgrounding styles of aged people are a necessity forscientific treatments of communicative problemscommonly attributed to aged people, as well asinformed design of dialogue systems that interactwith aged people.Nevertheless, most studies related tocommunications of aged people have focused onthe influence of aging on basic linguisticcompetence such as word retrievals (Tatsumi 1997,Ministry of Health and Welfare 1999), and studiesof their behaviors in actual dialogues have beenquite scarce.
The studies by Ryan & Hummert(1995) and Kemper & Vandeputte (1995) did touchon the conversational styles adopted by agedpeople, but their focus was more on theconversational styles adopted by younger peopletoward aged people.
The study by Bortfeld et al(2001) was exceptional in that it measured thenumber of fillers, restarts, and repairs to evaluatedisfluency of aged people?s speech inconversational settings.
Yet, the focus of this studywas on the characteristics of speech by individualconversants, rather than the ways in which theyinteract.
Thus, conversational styles of aged people,let alne their grounding styles, have been seldomstudied systematically.Under this situation, we have no specifichypothesis as to whether aged people have anycharacteristic grounding styles and if so, what theyare.
Our purpose in this study is thereforeexploratory, dedicated to a search for plausiblehypotheses about grounding styles of aged dyads,rather than a verification of their existence andspecifics.
Although our study is thus hypotheticalin nature, we did identify two clearlydistinguishable grounding styles in our data,correlated with the age ranges of conversants.
Inthe following, we will report what they are, howthey are found, and what implications theirdifference has as to some negative stereotypesabout conversations with aged people.2 MethodThe details of the corpus, its collection, and theassignment of tags are given below.2.1 Dialogue DataOur data consist of 5 dialogues by older dyads (agerange: 80-88, sd: 2.1) and 5 dialogues by youngerdyads (age range: 23-39, sd: 5.2).
Most of the olderparticipants were therefore so-called ?older-olds,?meaning that they were between 75 and 85 years ofage.
Familiarities of the older dyads were strong:they had known each other since they werechildren or after they moved into the current areasof residence, although they started talking eachother frequently after they joined an common localassociation several years ago.
The younger dyadswere also familiar with each other: they hadworked in the same department of an institute for atleast 3 months and up to 5 years and had talkedwith each other almost every working day.Dialogues of older dyads were videotaped in acommunity center that the subjects regularly visitfor activities of their association.
Videotaping ofyounger adults took place in a lounge space of theirwork place.
The dialogues were casualconversations in Japanese, involving no specificobjectives or tasks.
The dialogue topics betweenolder dyads included community events, commonfriends, their girlhood, and garden work, while thetopics between younger adults included their job,their children, their cars, and common friends.
Thelength of a dialogue in either group was from 30 to50 minutes.
Older adults participated in our datacollection on the voluntary basis, while we paid asmall amount of money for participation ofyounger adults.2.2 Transcription and codingTranscriptionWe transcribed a 5-minute portion after 3 minutesfrom the beginning of each dialogue.
All wordsand word fragments audible to the ear weretranscribed, including overlapping speech,nonlexical fillers (such as ?uh?
), and othervocalizations (such as laughter and whistle).
Aftereach dialogue was transcribed, we checked thevideotape to add data of all noddings and salientgestures (facial expressions and hand movements)to the transcription.
The transcriber solicited thehelp of some local residents to understand some ofthe dialectical expressions contained used indialogues by older dyads.CodingOn the basis of Traum?s finite-state transitionmodel of grounding, we divided all speech in ourdialogue data into utterance units (UUs), namely,?continuous speech by the same speaker,punctuated by prosodic boundaries (includingpauses of significant length and boundary tones)?
(Traum, 1994).
One of the present authors thenclassified each utterance unit into one of sevencategories of grounding acts, according to itscontribution to a grounding process.
Table 1 showsthe seven categories of grounding acts and theirdefinitions.Table 1.
Seven categories of grounding actsInitiate(init)An initial utterance component of aDiscourse unit.Continue(cont)A continuation of a previous actperformed by the same speaker.Acknowl-edgement(ack)An acknowledgement claiming ordemonstrating understanding of aprevious utterance.
It may be either arepetition or paraphrase of all or partof the utterance, an explicit signal ofcomprehension such as ?ok?
or ?uhhuh?, or an implicit signaling ofunderstanding.Repair(repair)Changes the content of the currentDU.ReqRepair(reqRepair)A request for a repair by the otherparty.ReqAck(reqAck)Attempt to get the other agent toacknowledge the previous utterance.Cancel(cancel)Closes off the current DU asungrounded.ReliabilityTo check the reliability of our coding scheme, weasked two independent subjects to code a portionof our data and compared their results with ourown.
As an instruction to these independent coders,we produced a coding manual that lists Traum?sdefinitions of the seven categories of groundingacts (see Table 1), sample utterances of eachcategory, and some general notes on treatments ofmarginal cases such as fillers, simultaneousutterances, and utterances with both Init and Ackfunctions.
The subjects did some exercise codingbefore actual coding, and they were encouraged toask questions about the coding standard during theexercise period.
Both transcribed text and audiorecording were available to the subjects during theactual coding.
The subjects coded two partialdialogues one from older dyads and the other fromyounger dyads.
Each dialogue was about 2.5minute in length.The interrater reliability among the originalcoder and these two subjects was excellent; therewas an 83% agreement, with a Cohen?s Kappaof .78, for dialogues by older dyads (UUs = 138,coders = 3, categories = 9) and a 78% agreement,with a Cohen?s Kappa .77, for dialogues byyounger dyads (UUs = 128, coders = 3, categories= 9).3 ResultsThus, our data comprise both dialogues by olderdyads and ones by younger dyads, but these twogroups of dialogues were not tightly controlled intheir settings and therefore are not appropriate forexact comparison.
For the limited purpose ofexploratory data analysis, however, it isconvenient to tentatively divide our data into thesetwo groups and compare them from various pointsof view.
This section reports four main results ofsuch exploratory comparisons, in terms of (1) thelength of disourse units, (2) the types of frequentlyused acknowledgments, and (3) the frequencies ofcollaborative completions and echoic responses.3.1 Utterance units and discourse unitsThe two groups of dialogues had no significantdifferences in the total numbers of discourse units(older adults, 446; younger adults, 482) and thetotal numbers of utterance units (older adults,1406; younger adults, 1309).
This roughly meansthat older dyads grounded information asfrequently as younger dyads, and the numbers ofutterances needed for each grounding are about thesame in older dyads and in younger dyads.Also, the frequencies of occurrences of theseven categories of grounding acts were about thesame in older dyads and younger dyads (Figure 1).33.3% 24.5%29.9%33.2%32.9%30.6% 5.6%7.1%0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%Init Cont Ack no actsolder dyadsyounger dyadsFigure 1.
Ratios of grounding acts in older dyadsand younger dyadsThat is, older dyads used grounding acts in aboutthe same variety and variance as younger dyadsdid.3.2 Types of AcknowledgementsInitiation-acknowledgementsGenerally, an ?acknowledgement act?
appears atthe end of a grounding unit, indicating thatconversants have mutually understood what thepresenter said.
In contrast, an ?initiate act?
appearsat the beginning of a grounding unit, initiating thepresentation of a new information unit.
Sometimes,a speaker performs both initiation andacknowledgement at the same time, by producingan initiation utterance whose content presupposesthe understanding of the preceding presentation.An example is found in dialogue excerpt (1)from an older dyad, where one of B?s utterances,?a-hon-na-ikatta (that?s good),?
acknowledges theprevious utterance of speaker A while initiatingB?s presentation of her own information.
(1)act UU  Utteranceinit17 35.1 A: honera(so)cont17(35.1) 35.2 : koneda[laugh](the other day)cont17(35.2) 35.3 : isha-so-ii-mashita(the doctor said so)ack17 init18 36.1 B: a-hon-na-ikatta(that?s good)ack18 37.1 A: n(m)init19 38.1 B: sore-kiitara-anshin-yawano(that may make you feel atease)We found that acknowledgements of this typeaccounts for a 27% of all acknowledgementutterances made by younger adults, while theyaccount for only a 10% of those by older adults(see the top section of each column in Figure 2).The difference was significant(t(5)=2.87, .01<p<.05, two-tailed).233225203 110138510%20%40%60%80%100%older dyads younger dyads(10.3% )(42.8% )(46.9% )(26.7% )(22.4% )(50.9% )initia tion-ackgeneral-purpose acknon-general-purpose ackFigure 2.
Ratios of the three types ofacknowledgements in older dyads and youngerdyadsGeneral-purpose acknowledgementsBeside these dual-functional acknowledgments,there were a significant number of ?dedicated?acknowledgements, namely, utterances annotatedas ?acknowledgements?
but not as anything else.Inside these dedicated acknowledgements,however, we can distinguish two types.
One typeconsists of general-purpose acknowledgements,such as ?uh-huh?
and ?m?, that could be usedirrespective of the contents of the precedingpresentations.
The other type comprisesspecial-purpose acknowledgements, such asrepeating or paraphrasing responses, whosecontents must vary depending on the contents ofthe preceding presentations.
An example ofgeneral-purpose acknowledgement is speaker A?sshort utterance ?n (m)?
in excerpt (2).
In contrast,speaker B?s utterance ?n-n-mite (m, you saw it)?
inexcerpt (3) is a case of special-purposeacknowledgment since it paraphrases thepreceding utterance by speaker A and thus dependson its specific content.1(2)act UU  Utteranceinit26 50.1 B: nanka-sono(well)cont26(50.1) 50.2  shinseki-no-hito-kaeru(the relative left)cont26(50.2) 50.3  koro-ni-natte(at time)ack26 51.1 A: n(m)init27  B: obaasan-ga-kite(her grand mother came and)cont27(52.1)   anta-aisatu-senkaine-tte(said ?`you must greet them?
)(3)act UU  Utteranceinit1 2.1 B: hora-sangousha-noran-naran-wa-tte(then I had to get in the third car)ack1 3.1 A: [laugh]init2 4.1 B: isshokenme-ni-sangousha-n-toko-he(I tried hard to get to the car)cont2(4.1) 4.2 : hata-sanbon-mitoite(seeing the flag)ack2 5.1 A: n-n-mite(m, you saw it)init3 6.1 B: hoite-ittara-mannin-ya-yappa(When I got to the car, it had noseats)ack3 7.1 A: aa(ah)1 Actual classifications of dedicatedacknowledgements into general-purpose andspecial purpose acknowledgements are subtlerthan suggested here.
For example, an utterance thatsounds ?n (m)?
could be classified asspecial-purpose if it has a marked prosodic featurethat signals the speaker?s emotion or feeling.Interestingly, older dyads produced moregeneral-purpose acknowledgements (43%) thanyounger adults did (23%).
The difference is highlysignificant (?2(2)=67.2, p<.01), as we can also seeby comparing the middle sections of the twocolumn in Figure 2.Post-grounding acknowledgementsDialogues conducted by older dyads containedseveral instances of requests for acknowledgementissued after acknowledgements, while those byyounger dyads contained no such instances (olderdyads, 9; younger dyads, 0).
For example, thesecond request for acknowledgement ?ne (see?
)?towards the end of excerpt (4) was issued after theacknowledgment ?n (m)?
by speaker A, requestingfurther acknowledgement of the presentation?watashi-no-shita-wo (and my younger sister)?that had been already grounded.
This phenomenonis particularly interesting since a request foracknowledgement after acknowledgement is not inthe scope of Traum?s finite-state transition modelof grounding sequences.
(4)act UU  Utteranceinit92 178.1 B: hoide-shita-ga(and my younger brother)reqAck92 178.2 : ne(see?
)ack92 179.1 A: n(m)init93 180.1 B: ano(what was that?
)cont93(180.1) 180.2 : nakanogou-he-yattee(they left him in relativehand)ack93 181.1 A: n(m)init94 182.1 B: watashi-no-shita-wo(and my younger sister)ack94 183.1 A: n(m)reqAck94 184.1 B: ne(see?
)ack94 185.1 A: n(m)Furthermore, older dyads produced?acknowledgements after acknowledgements?slightly more frequently than younger did (olderadults, 35; younger adults, 25).
The secondutterance ?nn (m)?
by speaker B is an instance ofthat type of acknowledgements.
(5)act UU  Utterancecont34(64.3) 64.4 B: hachiju-kara-ue-ni-narya-nani-wo-nn-na-aryan-na(as we get over 80?s)cont34(64.4) 64.5 : otoroeru-bakkari-ya(we are languishing)ack34 65.1 A: hou-ya(right)ack34 66.1 B: nn(m)3.3 Collaborative completion and echoicresponseCollaborative completions were slightly morefrequent in older dyads than in younger dyads(older adults, 13; younger adults, 7).
Likewise,echoic responses were   more frequent in olderdyads than in younger dyads (older adults, 23;younger adults, 10).
Speaker A?s second utterancein excerpt (6) is an example of collaborativecompletion done by an older dyad, and speaker B?ssecond utterance in excerpt (7) is an example ofechoic response done by an older speaker.
(6)act UU  Utteranceinit37 74.1 B: hitori-oru-ga-to(whether being alone or)ack37 75.1 A: n(m)init38 76.1 B: nina-tooru-ga-to(being with someone)cont38(76.1) 76.2 : debu-kibun-ga(feels)ack38 init39 77.1 A: chigau-ga(a big difference)ack39 78.1 B: chigota-tte-ne(yes, it?s different)(7)act UU  Utteranceack1 2.2 B: ooi-yo(you?re right)init2 3.1 A: tanba-dekiru-ga-ya(that?s how rice can grow)ack2 4.1 B: dekiru-ga-ya(can grow)4 DiscussionsThus, our exploratory comparison suggests severalpoints of difference between dialogues by olderdyads and dialogues by younger dyads.
Whatwould these individual differences reveal aboutcommon stereotypes about conversations withaged people?
Do these individual differencescombine themselves to define two differentgrounding styles attributable to older and youngerdyads?4.1 Initiation-acknowledgementutterances were less frequent in olderdyads.Initiation-acknowledgements are dual-functionalutterances, performing two grounding acts bysingle utterance units.
Dedicatedacknowledgments are mono-functional,performing single grounding functions per singleutterance units.
Thus, if we define the groundingtempo of a given part of dialogue as the ratio of thenumber of utterance units to the number ofdifferent grounding acts performed by them, thenan occurrence of initiation-acknowledgementcertainly increases the grounding tempo of thelocal context.In contrast, a dedicated acknowledgement hasno such accelerative effect on grounding tempo,and a frequent use of dedicated acknowledgementsmay even cause impressions of relative slownessof the grounding tempo in the local context.
Nowour exploratory comparison indicated that olderdyads used dedicated acknowledgements morefrequently than younger dyads, who usedinitiation-acknowledgements more frequently.
It isthen plausible that this contrast in the kinds offrequently used acknowledgements underlies thecommon impression that conversations with olderpeople are slow-paced and, since the groundingtempo is related to how efficiently information isshared, this contrast might partially account for thecommon impression that older people understandthings slowly.4.2  Older adutls often acknowledgedafter acknowledgements.In this regard, an occurrence of post-groundingacknowledgment must have a deceleration effecton the grounding tempo in the local context.
Forthe grounding function it performs, namely, theacknowledgement of the presented information, isone that has been done by the precedingacknowledgement, and thus the ratio of the numberof utterance units to the number of groundingfunctions performed by them is even worse thanthe case of dedicated acknowledgments.
Nowagain, our exploratory comparison indicated thatolder dyads used post-groundingacknowledgements more frequently than youngerdyads.
This contrast therefore might be an addedcause to the stereotypes mentioned above,slow-pacedness and slow-understanding.4.3 Older adults tended to usegeneral-purpose acknowledgementsmore frequently.Precisely because the form of a general-purposeacknowledgement, such as ?uh-huh?
and ?m,?does not depend on the content of the utterancebeing acknowledged, a general-purposeacknowledgement gives only weak evidence ofreception or understanding of the content.
Incontrast, a special-purpose acknowledgement,such as repeating or paraphrasing responses, hasstronger evidentiality, since its form is the result ofan appropriate choice relative to the content of theacknowledged utterance.
Now, our preliminarycomparison indicated that older dyads usedgeneral-purpose acknowledgements morefrequently than younger dyads, and this contrastmay well be still another cause to the negativestereotype on older people?s capacities forunderstanding during conversation.4.4 Two Grounding StylesOverall, our exploratory comparison suggests aparticular style of grounding as characteristic toolder dyads.
That is, older dyads use morededicated acknowledgments than dual-functionalacknowledgements involving initiations, andamong dedicated acknowledgements, older dyadsuse more general-purpose acknowledgements thanspecial-purpose acknowledgements; they also usepost-grounding acknowledgements relatively often,either spontaneously or solicited by requests foracknowledgements.
Let us call this grounding stylestyle A, and call the grounding style characterizedby the opposite tendencies style B.Now we have obtained this hypotheticalcontrast in grounding styles through an overallcomparison of the entire group of older dyads andthe entire group of younger dyads.
So the questionremains how much this contrast applies toindividual dyads of older and younger people.Aren?t there any exceptional older dyads withgrounding style B?
Any younger dyads withgrounding style A?To address these questions, we re-evaluated ourdata and ranked all ten dialogues in our dataaccording to the ratios of dedicatedacknowledgements, the ratios of  general-purposeacknowledgements, and the counts ofpost-grounding acknowledgements (solicitedacknowledgements and spontaneousacknowledgements).
Table 2 shows the result ofranking, where the hatched cells indicate dialoguesby older dyads.
Here we see that the contrast ofstyle A and style B divides older dyads andyounger dyads fairly clearly.
In fact, the separationof older and younger dyads is statisticallysignificant in the ratio of dedicatedacknowledgements (W0>=w5,5(0.01)=39,two-tailed), the ratio of general-purposeacknowledgements (W0>=w5,5(0.025)=38,two-tailed) and the counts of solicitedpost-grounding acknowledgements (E(R)=27.5,V(R)=36, Z0=3.75, Z(a)=3.09, p<0.002,two-tailed).
Thus, our hypothesis associating styleA to older dyads and style B to younger dyadsreceives some initial supports from this analysis.On the other hand, Table 2 also shows certainexceptions to this association, namely, some olderdyads with style B and some younger dyads withstyle A.
This is only natural as we can easilyimagine older people who talk like younger peopleas well as younger people who talk like olderpeople.
Styles are styles, and they are not naturaltraits exclusively possessed by particular speciesof creatures.Table 2.
Rank order of ten dialogues according to the ratios of dedicated acknowledgements, the ratios ofgeneral-purpose acknowledgements, and the counts of post-grounding acknowledgements (solicitedacknowledgements and spontaneous acknowledgements)post-grounding acknowledgements dedicatedacknowledgmentsgeneral-purposeacknowledgments solicited spontaneouspercentage rank percentage rank counts rank counts rank58.41% 1 10.90% 1 0 1 3 162.02% 2 18.60% 2 0 1 4 280.00% 3 19.40% 3 0 1 5 5.581.32% 4 21.50% 4 0 1 5 5.584.11% 5 25.20% 5 0 1 5 5.584.95% 6 41.30% 6 0 1 5 5.588.89% 7 41.80% 7 0 1 6 788.99% 8 42.40% 8 1 8 7 893.27% 9 48.30% 9 4 9.5 10 9.593.33% 10 56.90% 10 4 9.5 10 9.5*Hatched cells are data of older dyads.5 ConclusionAs a pilot study of the grounding styles of olderdyads, we analyzed dialogue data featuring botholder and younger dyads, and identified a certaincontrast in grounding style that separates the twogroups fairly clearly.
In the style associated witholder dyads, people use more dedicatedacknowledgements than dual-functional ones, usemore general-purpose acknowledgements thanspecial-purpose ones, and use relatively manypost-grounding acknowledgements.
In the styleassociated with younger dyads, the oppositetendencies on the use of acknowledgements hold.On the basis of this contrast, we also discussed theimplications of the adoption of the first groundingstyle, and conjectured that some of the negativestereotypes about conversations with older peoplemay be based on this grounding style they adopt.Certainly, as the result of an exploratory study, allthese observations are purely hypothetical.
Weonly hope that this study has provided enoughmaterials to set a stage for a further, morecontrolled comparison of grounding styles of olderand younger dyads.ReferencesBortfeld, H., Leon, S.D., Bloom, J.E., Schober,M.F., & Brennan, S.E.
2001.
Disfluency Rates inConversation: Effects of Age, Relationship, Topic,Role, and Gender.
Language and Speech, 44(2):123-147Clark, H.H.
1996.
Using language.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Fleiss, J.L.
1981.
Statistical Methods of Ratesand Proportions.
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.Kemper, S. & Vandeputte, D. 1995.
Speechadjustments to aging during a referentialcommunication task.
Journal of Language &Social Psychology, 14(1/2): 40-59Ministry of Health and Welfare.
1999.
Whitepaper.
Tokyo: Gyousei.Ryan, E.B.
& Hummert, M.L.
1995.Communication predicaments of aging:patronizing behavior toward elder adults.
Journalof Language & Social Psychology, 14?1/2):144-166.Shimojima, A., Katagiri, Y., Koiso, H, &Swerts, M. 1999.
Informational anddialogue-coordinating functions of prosodicfeatures of Japanese echoic responses.
Speechcommunication.
Speech Communication,36(2002):113-132Tatsumi, I.
1997.
Word finding difficulty asaging, Gengo, 26(13): 26-33Tannen, D. 1989.
Taking Voices: Repetition,Dialogue, and Imagery in ConversationalDiscourse.
Cambridge: Cambridge UniversityPress.Traum, D.R.
1994.
A Computational Theory ofGrounding in Natural Language Conversation.Technical Report 545.
University of Rochester.
