Lexicon-based Orthographic Disambiguationin CJK Intelligent Information RetrievalJack Halpern?????
?jack@cjk.orgThe CJK Dictionary Institute?????????
?34-14, 2-chome, Tohoku, Niiza-shi, Saitama 352-0001, JapanAbstractThe orthographical complexity of Chinese,Japanese and Korean (CJK) poses a specialchallenge to the developers of computationallinguistic tools, especially in the area ofintelligent information retrieval.
Thesedifficulties are exacerbated by the lack of astandardized orthography in these languages,especially the highly irregular Japaneseorthography.
This paper focuses on the typologyof CJK orthographic variation, provides a briefanalysis of the linguistic issues, and discusses whylexical databases should play a central role in thedisambiguation process.1 IntroductionVarious factors contribute to the difficulties ofCJK information retrieval.
To achieve truly"intelligent" retrieval many challenges must beovercome.
Some of the major issues include:1.
The lack of a standard orthography.
Toprocess the extremely large number oforthographic variants (especially in Japanese)and character forms requires support foradvanced IR technologies such as cross-orthographic searching (Halpern 2000).2.
The accurate conversion between SimplifiedChinese (SC) and Traditional Chinese (TC), adeceptively simple but in fact extremelydifficult computational task (Halpern andKerman 1999).3.
The morphological complexity of Japaneseand Korean poses a formidable challenge tothe development of an accuratemorphological analyzer.
This performs suchoperations as canonicalization, stemming(removing inflectional endings) andconflation (reducing morphological variantsto a single form) on the morphemic level.4.
The difficulty of performing accurate wordsegmentation, especially in Chinese andJapanese which are written without interwordspacing.
This involves identifying wordboundaries by breaking a text stream intomeaningful semantic units for dictionarylookup and indexing purposes.
Good progressin this area is reported in Emerson (2000) andYu et al (2000).5.
Miscellaneous retrieval technologies such aslexeme-based retrieval (e.g.
'take off' +'jacket' from 'took off his jacket'), identifyingsyntactic phrases (such as ????
from ?????
), synonym expansion, and cross-language information retrieval (CLIR) (Gotoet al 2001).6.
Miscellaneous technical requirements such astranscoding between multiple character setsand encodings, support for Unicode, andinput method editors (IME).
Most of theseissues have been satisfactorily resolved, asreported in Lunde (1999).7.
Proper nouns pose special difficulties for IRtools, as they are extremely numerous,difficult to detect without a lexicon, and havean unstable orthography.8.
Automatic recognition of terms and theirvariants, a complex topic beyond the scopeof this paper.
It is described in detail forEuropean languages in Jacquemin (2001),and we are currently investigating it forChinese and Japanese.Each of the above is a major issue that deserves apaper in its own right.
Here, the focus is onorthographic disambiguation, which refers tothe detection, normalization and conversion ofCJK orthographic variants.
This paper summarizesthe typology of CJK orthographic variation,briefly analyzes the linguistic issues, anddiscusses why lexical databases should play acentral role in the disambiguation process.2 Orthographic Variation in Chinese2.1 One Language, Two ScriptsAs a result of the postwar language reforms in thePRC, thousands of character forms underwentdrastic simplifications (Zongbiao 1986).
Chinesewritten in these simplified forms is calledSimplified Chinese (SC).
Taiwan, Hong Kong,and most overseas Chinese continue to use the old,complex forms, referred to as TraditionalChinese (TC).The complexity of the Chinese writing system iswell known.
Some factors contributing to this arethe large number of characters in common use,their complex forms, the major differencesbetween TC and SC along various dimensions, thepresence of numerous orthographic variants in TC,and others.
The numerous variants and thedifficulty of converting between SC and TC are ofspecial importance to Chinese IR applications.2.2 Chinese-to-Chinese ConversionThe process of automatically converting SCto/from TC, referred to as C2C conversion, is fullof complexities and pitfalls.
A detailed descriptionof the linguistic issues can be found in Halpernand Kerman (1999), while technical issues relatedto encoding and character sets are described inLunde (1999).
The conversion can beimplemented on three levels in increasing order ofsophistication, briefly described below.2.2.1 Code Conversion The easiest, but mostunreliable, way to perform C2C conversion is on acodepoint-to-codepoint basis by looking thesource up in a mapping table, such as the oneshown below.
This is referred to as codeconversion or transcoding.
Because of thenumerous one-to-many ambiguities (which occurin both the SC-to-TC and the TC-to-SCdirections), the rate of conversion failure isunacceptably high.Table 1.
Code ConversionSC TC1 TC2 TC3 TC4 Remarks  one-to-one  one-to-one   one-to-many  	 one-to-manyone-to-many2.2.2 Orthographic Conversion The nextlevel of sophistication in C2C conversion isreferred to as orthographic conversion, becausethe items being converted are orthographic units,rather than codepoints in a character set.
That is,they are meaningful linguistic units, especiallymulti-character lexemes.
While code conversion isambiguous, orthographic conversion gives betterresults because the orthographic mapping tablesenable conversion on the word level.Table 2.
Orthographic ConversionEnglish SC TC1 TC2 Incorrect Commentstelephone     unambiguouswe     unambiguousstart-off       one-to-manydry    one-to-many  depends on contextAs can be seen, the ambiguities inherent in codeconversion are resolved by using an orthographicmapping table, which avoids false conversionssuch as shown in the Incorrect column.
Becauseof segmentation ambiguities, such conversionmust be done with the aid of a morphologicalanalyzer that can break the text stream intomeaningful units (Emerson 2000).2.2.3 Lexemic Conversion A moresophisticated, and far more challenging, approachto C2C conversion is called lexemic conversion,which maps SC and TC lexemes that aresemantically, not orthographically, equivalent.For example, SC  (x?nx?)
'information' isconverted to the semantically equivalent TC(z?x?n).
This is similar to the difference betweenlorry in British English and truck in AmericanEnglish.There are numerous lexemic differences betweenSC and TC, especially in technical terms andproper nouns, as demonstrated by Tsou (2000).For example, there are more than 10 variants for'Osama bin Laden.'
To complicate matters, thecorrect TC is sometimes locale-dependent.Lexemic conversion is the most difficult aspect ofC2C conversion and can only be done with thehelp of mapping tables.
Table 3 illustrates variouspatterns of cross-locale lexemic variation.Table 3.
Lexemic ConversionEnglish SC Taiwan TC Hong Kong TC Other TC Incorrect TC(orthographic)Software   !Taxi "#$ %&' () *) "#'Osama bin Laden +,-./0 1234/0 1234/5 126./0Oahu 789 :8; 78;2.3 Traditional Chinese VariantsTraditional Chinese does not have a stableorthography.
There are numerous TC variantforms, and much confusion prevails.
To processTC (and to some extent SC) it is necessary todisambiguate these variants using mapping tables(Halpern 2001).2.3.1 TC Variants in Taiwan and HongKong Traditional Chinese dictionaries oftendisagree on the choice of the standard TC form.TC variants can be classified into various types, asillustrated in Table 4.Table 4.
TC VariantsVar.
1 Var.
2 English Comment  inside 100% interchangeable  teach 100% interchangeable  particle variant 2 not in Big5  for variant 2 not in Big5sink;surnamepartiallyinterchangeableleak;divulgepartiallyinterchangeableThere are various reasons for the existence of TCvariants, such as some TC forms are not beingavailable in the Big Five character set, theoccasional use of SC forms, and others.2.3.2 Mainland vs. Taiwanese Variants To alimited extent, the TC forms are used in the PRCfor some classical literature, newspapers foroverseas Chinese, etc., based on a standard thatmaps the SC forms (GB 2312-80) to theircorresponding TC forms (GB/T 12345-90).However, these mappings do not necessarily agreewith those widely used in Taiwan.
We will refer tothe former as "Simplified Traditional Chinese"(STC), and to the latter as "TraditionalTraditional Chinese" (TTC).Table 5.
STC vs. TTC VariantsPinyin SC STC TTCxi?n b?ng   c?
  3 Orthographic Variation inJapanese3.1 One Language, Four ScriptsThe Japanese orthography is highly irregular.Because of the large number of orthographicvariants and easily confused homophones, theJapanese writing system is significantly morecomplex than any other major language, includingChinese.
A major factor is the complex interactionof the four scripts used to write Japanese, resultingin countless words that can be written in a varietyof often unpredictable ways (Halpern 1990, 2000).Table 6 shows the orthographic variants of ????
toriatsukai 'handling', illustrating a variety ofvariation patterns.Table 6.
Variants of toriatsukaiToriatsukai Type of variant<=>?
"standard" form<>?
okurigana variant<> All kanji@=>?
replace kanji with hiragana<=ABC?
replace kanji with hiragana@=ABC?
All hiraganaAn example of how difficult Japanese IR can be isthe proverbial "A hen that lays golden eggs."
The"standard" orthography would be ???????
(Kin no tamago wo umu niwatori).
In reality, tamago'egg' has four variants (?, ?
?, ??
?, ???
),niwatori 'chicken' three (?, ???
?, ????
)and umu 'to lay' two (?
?, ??
), which expandsto 24 permutations like ?????????
?, ????????
etc.
As can be easily verified bysearching the web, these variants frequently occurin webpages.
Clearly, the user has no hope offinding them unless the application supportsorthographic disambiguation.3.2 Okurigana VariantsOne of the most common types of orthographicvariation in Japanese occurs in kana endings,called ????
okurigana, that are attached to akanji base or stem.
Although it is possible togenerate some okurigana variants algorithmically,such as nouns (???)
derived from verbs (???
), on the whole hard-coded tables are required.Because usage is often unpredictable and thevariants are numerous, okurigana must play amajor role in Japanese orthographicdisambiguation.Table 7.
Okurigana VariantsEnglish Reading Standard Variantspublish kakiarawasu DEFGDEFHGDFHGDFGperform okonau IJ IKJhandling toriatsukai <=>?
<>?<>3.3 Cross-Script Orthographic VariantsJapanese is written in a mixture of four scripts(Halpern 1990): kanji (Chinese characters), twosyllabic scripts called hiragana and katakana,and romaji (the Latin alphabet).
Orthographicvariation across scripts, which should play a majorrole in Japanese IR, is extremely common andmostly unpredictable, so that the same word canbe written in hiragana, katakana or kanji, or evenin a mixture of two scripts.
Table 8 shows themajor cross-script variation patterns in Japanese.Table 8.
Cross-Script VariantsKanji vs. Hiragana   Kanji vs. Katakana Kanji vs. hiragana vs. katakana Katakana vs. hybrid  Y Kanji vs. katakana vs. hybrid   Kanji vs. hybrid   Hiragana vs. katakana   3.4 Kana VariantsRecent years have seen a sharp increase in the useof katakana, a syllabary used mostly to writeloanwords.
A major annoyance in Japanese IR isthat katakana orthography is often irregular; it isquite common for the same word to be written inmultiple, unpredictable ways which cannot begenerated algorithmically.
Hiragana is usedmostly to write grammatical elements and somenative Japanese words.
Although hiraganaorthography is generally regular, a small numberof irregularities persist.
Some of the major typesof kana variation are shown in Table 9.Table 9.
Katakana and Hiragana VariantsType English Reading Standard VariantsMacron computer konpyuutakonpyuutaa????????????
?Longvowels maid meedo ???
??
?Multiplekana teamchiimutiimu ???
???
?Traditional big ookii ????
???
? vs. continue tsuzuku ???
??
?The above is only a brief introduction to the mostimportant types of kana variation.
There arevarious others, including an optional middle dot(nakaguro) and small katakana variants (??
vs.??
), and the use of traditional (?
vs.
?)
andhistorical (?
vs.?)
kana.3.5 Miscellaneous VariantsThere are various other types of orthographicvariants in Japanese, which are beyond the scopeof this paper.
Only a couple of the important onesare mentioned below.
A detailed treatment can befound in Halpern (2000).3.5.1 Kanji Variants Though the Japanesewriting system underwent major reforms in thepostwar period and the character forms have bynow been standardized, there is still a significantnumber of variants in common use, such asabbreviated forms in contemporary Japanese (?for ?
and ?
for ? )
and traditional forms inproper nouns and classical works (such as ?
for?
and?
for?
).3.5.2 Kun Homophones An important factorthat contributes to the complexity of the Japanesewriting system is the existence of a large numberof homophones (words pronounced the same butwritten differently) and their variable orthography(Halpern 2000).
Not only can each kanji havemany kun readings, but many kun words can bewritten in a bewildering variety of ways.
Themajority of kun homophones are often close oreven identical in meaning and thus easilyconfused, i.e., noboru means 'go up' when written??
but 'climb' when written ??
, whileyawarakai ?soft?
is written ????
or ???
?with identical meanings.4 Orthographic Variation in Korean4.1 Irregular OrthographyThe Korean orthography is not as regular as mostpeople tend to believe.
Though hangul is oftendescribed as "logical," the fact is that in modernKorean there is a significant amount oforthographic variation.
This, combined with themorphological complexity of the language, posesa challenge to developers of IR tools.
The majortypes of orthographic variation in Korean aredescribed below.4.2 Hangul VariantsThe most important type of orthographic variationin Korean is the use of variant hangul spellings inthe writing of loanwords.
Another significant kindof variation is in the writing of non-Koreanpersonal names, as shown in Table 10.Table 10.
Hangul VariantscakeLMN (keikeu) LO (keik)yellowPQR (yelrou) PQ (yelro)MaoZedongSTUV(maojjeottung )WXY(motaekdong)Clinton Z[\(keulrinteon )Z[](keulrinton)4.3 Cross-Script Orthographic VariantsA factor that contributes to the complexity of theKorean writing system is the use of multiplescripts.
Korean is written in a mixture of threescripts: an alphabetic syllabary called hangul,Chinese characters called hanja (their use isdeclining) and the Latin alphabet called romaja.Orthographic variation across scripts is notuncommon.
The major patterns of cross-scriptvariation are shown Table 11.Table 11.
Cross-Script Orthographic VariantsType ofVariation English Var.
1 Var.
2 Var.3Hanja vs.hangulmanypeople^_(daese)`a(daese)Hangul vs.hybrid shirtbMcd(wai-syeacheu)ecd(wai-syeacheu)Hangul vs.numeralvs.
hanjaoneo'clockfg(hansi)hg(hansi )ij(hansi)Englishvs.
hangul sex sexkl(sekseu )4.4 Miscellaneous Variants4.4.1 North vs. South Korea Another factorcontributing to the irregularity of hangulorthography is the differences in spelling betweenSouth Korea (S.K.)
and North Korea (N.K.).
Themajor differences are in the writing of loanwords,a strong preference for native Korean words, andin the writing of non-Korean proper nouns.
Themajor types are shown below.1.
Place names: N.K.
Tmn (osakka) vs. S.K.Tmo (osaka) for 'Osaka'2.
Personal names: N.K.
pq (busyu) vs. S.K.pg (busi) for 'Bush'3.
Loanwords: N.K.rst (missail) vs. S.K.rmt (misail) for 'missile'4.
Russian vs. English: N.K.
uvw (guruppa)vs. S.K.ux (geurup)5.
Morphophonemic: N.K.
yz (ramyong) vs.S.K.
{z (namyong)4.4.2 New vs. Old Orthography The hangulscript went through several reforms during itshistory, the latest one taking place as recently as1988.
Though the new orthography is now wellestablished, the old orthography is still importantbecause the affected words are of high frequencyand their number is not insignificant.
For example,the modern t| 'worker' (ilgun) was written t}(ilkkun) before 1988, while~ 'color' (bitgal) waswritten~?
(bitkkal).4.4.3 Hanja Variants Although languagereforms in Korea did not include thesimplification of the character forms, the Japaneseoccupation of Korea resulted in many simplifiedJapanese character forms coming into use, such asthe Japanese form?
to replace?
(bal).4.4.4 Miscellaneous Variants There arevarious other types of orthographic variation,which are beyond the scope of this paper.
Thisincludes the use of abbreviations and acronymsand variation in interword spacing in multiwordcompounds.
For example, 'Caribbean Sea'(karibeuhae) may be written solid (o???)
oropen (o???
).5 The Role of Lexical DatabasesBecause of the irregular orthography of CJKlanguages, lexeme-based procedures such asorthographic disambiguation cannot be based onprobabilistic methods (e.g.
bigramming) alone.Many attempts have been made along these lines,as for example Brill (2001) and Goto et al (2001),with some claiming performance equivalent tolexicon-based methods, while Kwok (1997)reports good results with only a small lexicon andsimple segmentor.These methods may be satisfactory for pure IR(relevant document retrieval), but for orthographicdisambiguation and C2C conversion, Emerson(2000) and others have shown that a robustmorphological analyzer capable of processinglexemes, rather than bigrams or n-grams, must besupported by a large-scale computational lexicon(even 100,000 entries is much too small).The CJK Dictionary Institute (CJKI), whichspecializes in CJK computational lexicography, isengaged in an ongoing research and developmenteffort to compile comprehensive CJK lexicaldatabases (currently about 5.5 million entries),with special emphasis on orthographicdisambiguation and proper nouns.
Listed beloware the principal components useful for intelligentIR tools and orthographic disambiguation.1.
Chinese to Chinese conversion.
In 1996,CJKI launched a project to investigate C2Cconversion issues in-depth, and to buildcomprehensive mapping tables (now at 1.3million SC and 1.2 million TC items) whosegoal is to achieve near 100% conversionaccuracy.
These include:a. SC-to/from-TC code-level mapping tablesb.
SC-to/from-TC orthographic and lexemicmapping tables for general vocabularyc.
SC-to/from-TC orthographic mappingtables for proper nounsd.
Comprehensive SC-to/from-TCorthographic/lexemic mapping tables fortechnical terminology, especially IT terms2.
TC orthographc normalization tablesa.
TC normalization mapping tablesb.
STC-to/from-TTC character mappingtables3.
Japanese orthographic variant databasesa.
A comprehensive database of Japaneseorthographic variantsb.
A database of semantically classifiedhomophone groupsc.
Semantically classified synonym groupsfor synonym expansion (Japanesethesaurus)d. An English-Japanese lexicon for CLIRe.
Rules for identifying unlisted variantsConclusionsCJK IR tools have become increasingly importantto information retrieval in particular and toinformation technology in general.
As we haveseen, because of the irregular orthography of theCJK writing systems, intelligent informationretrieval requires not only sophisticated tools suchas morphological analyzers, but also lexicaldatabases fine-tuned to the needs of orthographicdisambiguation.Few if any CJK IR tools perform orthographicdisambiguation.
For truly "intelligent" IR tobecome a reality, not only must lexicon-baseddisambiguation be supported, but such emergingtechnologies as CLIR, synonym expansion andcross-homophone searching should also beimplemented.We are currently engaged in further developingthe lexical resources required for buildingintelligent CJK information retrieval tools and forsupporting accurate segmentation technology.ReferencesBrill, E. and Kacmarick, G. and Brocket, C. (2001)Automatically Harvesting Katakana-English TermPairs from Search Engine Query Logs.
MicrosoftResearch, Proc.
of the Sixth Natural LanguageProcessing Pacific Rim Symposium, Tokyo, Japan.Emerson, T. (2000) Segmenting Chinese in Unicode.Proc.
of the 16th International Unicode Conference,AmsterdamGoto, I., Uratani, N. and Ehara T. (2001) Cross-Language Information Retrieval of Proper Nounsusing Context Information.
NHK Science andTechnical Research Laboratories.
Proc.
of the SixthNatural Language Processing Pacific RimSymposium, Tokyo, JapanJacquemin, C. (2001) Spotting and Discovering Termsthrough Natural Language Processing.
The MITPress, Cambridge, MAHalpern, J.
(1990) Outline Of Japanese Writing System.In ?New Japanese-English Character Dictionary?,6th printing, Kenkyusha Ltd., Tokyo, Japan(www.kanji.org/kanji/japanese/writing/outline.htm)Halpern, J. and Kerman J.
(1999) The Pitfalls andComplexities of Chinese to Chinese Conversion.Proc.
of the Fourteenth International UnicodeConference in Cambridge, MA.Halpern, J.
(2000) The Challenges of IntelligentJapanese Searching.
Working paper (www.cjk.org/cjk/joa/joapaper.htm), The CJK Dictionary Institute,Saitama, Japan.Halpern, J.
(2001) Variation in Traditional ChineseOrthography.
Working paper (www.cjk.org/cjk/cjk/reference/chinvar.htm), The CJK DictionaryInstitute, Saitama, Japan.Kwok, K.L.
(1997) Lexicon Effects on ChineseInformation Retrieval.
Proc.
of 2nd Conf.
onEmpirical Methods in NLP.
ACL.
pp.141-8.Lunde, Ken (1999) CJKV Information Processing.O?Reilly & Associates, Sebastopol, CA.Yu, Shiwen, Zhu, Xue-feng and Wang, Hui (2000) NewProgress of the Grammatical Knowledge-base ofContemporary Chinese.
Journal of ChineseInformation Processing, Institute of ComputationalLinguistics, Peking University, Vol.15 No.1.Tsou, B.K., Tsoi, W.F., Lai, T.B.Y.
Hu, J., and ChanS.W.K.
(2000) LIVAC, a Chinese synchronouscorpus, and some applications.
In "2000International Conference on Chinese LanguageComputingICCLC2000", Chicago .Zongbiao (1986)???
?F (Jianhuazi zongbiao)(Second Edition).???????????,???
?, China.
