Sorry, what was your name again, or how to overcomethe tip-of-the tongue problem with the help of a computer?Michael ZockLIMSI-CNRS, B.P.13391403 Orsay-Cedex, Francezock@limsi.frAbstractA speaker or writer has to find words forexpressing his thoughts.
Yet, knowing aword does not guarantee its access.
Whohasn?t experienced the problem of lookingfor a word he knows, yet is unable to ac-cess (in time) ?
Work done by psy-chologists reveals that people being in thisso called tip-of-the-tongue state (TOT)know a lot about the word : meaning,number of syllables, origine, etc.
Speakersare generally able to recognize the word,and if they produce an erroneous word,that token shares many things with the tar-get word (initial/final letter/phoneme, partof speech, semantic field, etc.).
This beingso, one might want to take advantage ofthe situation and build a program that as-sists the speaker/writer by revealing theword that?s on his/her mind (tongue/pen).Three methods will be presented, the firstone being implemented.1 The context or starting pointI?m currently involved in a project (PA-PILLON)1 whose goal is to build a huge mul-tilingual lexical data-base (English-French-Japanese, Thai) from which one can extractdigital bilingual dictionaries.
The latter canbe customized to fit different needs: dictiona-ries to be used by people vs. dictionaries tobe used by machines (e.g.
automatic transla-tion).One of the ideas is to enhance this dic-tionary by adding certain functions, in orderto capitalize on the data.
Rather than being a1http://www.papillon-dictionary.orgcomponent supporting a single task, the dic-tionary is at the centre, supporting the user ina variety of tasks like reading, writing, me-morization of words or automation of syn-tactic structures.
Particular emphasis will begiven to word access, the topic of this paper,because, what is a dictionary good for, if onecannot access the data it contains?
The ap-proach taken is generic, hence, it applies notonly within this particular context.Word access being a fundamental task inlanguage production, one might wonder whatcould be learned by gleaning at work done inthe context of automatic text generation.2 Word access in Natural-LanguageGenerationA lot of (natural language generation) resear-chers have been interested in lexical issuesduring the last fifteen years or so.2 Yet des-pite this enormous body of work, the issue ofword access has not been addressed at allwithin this community, not even in Ward?sextensive problem catalog (Ward 1988).While from a strict computational linguisticpoint of view, the whole matter may be a non-issue,3 however, if we address the problem oflexicalization from a psycholinguistic orman-machine interaction point of view2For excellent surveys see (Robin, 1990; Wanner1996).3Most programs running serially, there is no suchthing as competition.
Hence, problems like inter-ference , confusion or forgetting do not occur.Furthermore, computers having a perfect memory,stored information can generally be easily acces-sed.
The situation is quite different for people.
(spontaneous discourse or writing on a com-puter), things are quite different.
Just as?knowing a word?
does not imply ?beingable to access it?, ?choosing a word?
does notimply ?being able to find the set of candidatesfrom which to choose?.
The situation is so-mehow different in psycholinguistics.
Again,there is an enormous body of research (Mar-slen-Wilson, 1989; Aitchinson, 1987; Levelt,1992, to name just those).
While all theseauthors take up the issue of word access, theydo not consider the use of computers for hel-ping people in their task.
Yet this is preciselywhat I do here.3 What prevents us from finding aword?In order to answer this question, let us take alook at the time course of lexicalization.
Ac-cording to psychologists (Butterworth,1989:110; Levelt 1989), lexical access takesplace in two temporally distinct stages.
In thefirst stage the speaker checks the semanticlexicon for a lemma expressing the concep-tual input.4 If he can find one, he will take itand consult then the phonological lexicon inorder to find the appropriate phonologicalform.5Errors can occur at both ends.
Yet, sincethe two stages are independent, errors belongto either category, but never to both.
Errors atthe semantic level will yield a wrong lemma(e.g.
hate instead of love), while errors at thephonological level may result in the wrongphonological form.
For example, the intentedrelegate may surface as renegate or delegate(/l/ and /n/ as well /r/ and /d/ being phonolo-gically relatively close), turn on the heaterswitch may result in turn on the sweeter hitch(Clark & Clark, 1977), etc.
As one can see,these words are all phonologically reasonablyclose to the target word, yet, it is precisely4Suppose you wanted to refer to a castor, thenthere could be a competition between the lemmata?otter, beaver?.5If the chosen lemma were ?beaver?
then  allwords starting with ?b-e-a?
or ?b-e-e?
could beconsidered as candidates.this proximity that prevents the speaker toaccess the ?right?
word.4 The speaker?s problem: choosingwords, finding them, or both?Obviously, there is more to lexicalisation thanjust choosing words: one has to find them tobegin with.
No matter how rich a lexical data-base may be, it is of little use if one cannot ac-cess the relevant information in time.Work on memory has shown that access de-pends crucially on the way information is orga-nized (Baddeley, 1982).
From speech error lit-erature (Fromkin 1973) we learn that ease ofaccess depends not only on meaning relations(word bridges, i.e.
associations) or the structureof the lexicon (i.e.
the way words are organizedin our mind),?
but also on linguistic form.Researchers collecting speech errors have of-fered countless examples of phonological errorsin which segments (phonemes, syllables orwords) are added, deleted, anticipated or ex-changed.
Reversals like /aminal/ instead of/animal/, or /karpsihord/ instead of /harpsikord/are not random at all, they are highly systematicand can be explained.
Examples such as grastly,a blend of grizzly + ghastly, or Fatz and Kodor(instead of Katz and Fodor) clearly show thatknowing the meaning of a word does not guar-antee its access.The work on speech errors also reveals thatwords are stored in two modes, by meaning andby form (sound), and it is often this latter whichinhibits finding the right token: having recom-bined inadvertently the components of a givenword (syllable scrambling), one may end upproducing a word, which either does not exist oris simply different from the one in mind.
Thiskind of recombination, resulting from bookkee-ping problems due to time pressure, parallelprocessing and information overload, may dis-turb or prevent the access of words.
Hence theusefulness of a tool that allows to revert theprocess.5 Three methods for enabling thecomputer to guess the right wordI shall present here three methods (one based onform, another based on meaning, the last onebased on a combination of both) for helping thewriter to find the word he is looking for.
So far,only the first method is implemented.5.1 Access by formThe component described below is part of alarger system PIC (Fournier & Letellier, 1990).For its adaptation to the problem of lexical ac-cess see Zock & Fournier (2001).The system has two basic mechanisms forfinding the right word: anacodes and phoneti-codes.
The former deals with errors due to per-mutations, while the latter deals with homo-phones.
Since an anacode is equivalent to the setof letters composing the word, scrambled letters(unwanted permutations) are not a problem atall.
The system would still find the right word,provided that there is such a candidate in thedictionary, and provided that the user didn'tomit, add or replace one character(s) by another.For example, if the input were aclibrer insteadof calibrer, the system would have no difficultyto find the target word (calibrer), since bothwords are composed of the same set of letters(a/b/c/e/i/l/r).
If the user added letters outside ofthe anacode, the system would need several runsto check alternative spellings by making localvariations (delete or add a character by makingsystematic permutations).The second technique (phoneticodes) con-sists in converting graphemes into phonemes,which allows the system to deal with spellingerrors due to homophony, a very frequent phe-nomenon in French (see figure 1).FRENCH ENGLISH SYNT.
CAT.
DOMAINvingt twenty Adjective NUMBERvin wine Noun-singular BEVERAGEvins wines Noun-plural BEVERAGEje vins I came Verb-pasttenseMOUVEMENTtu vins you came Verb-past tense MOUVEMENTil vint he came Verb-pasttenseMOUVEMENT?qu?ilv?nt...that hecameVerb-subjonctifMOUVEMENTje vaincs I win V-pres.
tense COMPETITIONtu vaincs you win V-pres.
tense COMPETITIONil vainc he wins V-pres.
tense COMPETITIONvaincs win V-Imperative COMPETITIONen vein in vain Adverb UTILITYFigure 1 : The many ways of writing /vR/For example, the system would be able todeal with errors like vin, vins, vein, vint,vaincs, etc.
instead of vingt.
If the system can-not find directly a candidate, it will perform lo-cal changes by performing permutations of pho-nemes or syllables.
Hence it would have noproblem to find the word poteau (pole) insteadof topos (topic), both words being composed ofthe same syllables (/po-to/), the only differencebeing their order.The situation is more complex and may evenbecome intractable if extraneous material isadded, or if the correction yields an existing, yetsemantically different word from what was in-tended.
Suppose that the target word were "mai-son" (house), while the user typed ?masson?.Relying on the phoneticode, the system mightsuggest "ma?on" (bricklayer), a word that exists,but which is not at all what was intended.
Rely-ing on the anacode, it would fail, because noneof the permutations would result in the targetword.5.2 Access by meaning: navigation in ahuge associative networkAs mentionned before, words are stored bymeaning and by form (sound).
Therefore weneed a method to access words in both modali-ties.
This is all the more necessary, as the spea-ker starts from a meaning representation(concept, message).
We plan to experiment withthe following two methods.
In the first casesearch is done by propagation in a dynamicallybuilt network.
In the second case search is doneby filtering (5.3).The fact that the dictionary is organized as aweb rather than a taxonomy, has obvious advan-tages : there is more than one way to reach thegoal.
Hence, if ever one has gone in the?
wrong ?
direction, one may still recover lateron.
To illustrate this last point, let?s take anexample.
Suppose you played chess and youwanted to find the French equivalent for theword ?
knight ?
(cavalier).
If the dictionarywere structured along the lines suggested, thanone could access the word via any of the follo-wing links or associations : horseman (cavalier-noun), to be nonchalant (?tre cavalier), to be aloner (faire cavalier seul), but also to bolt (ca-valer), King Arthur (chevalier), famous Frenchsinger (Maurice Chevalier).
Note, that while inthe first three cases we get homonymes of thetarget word (cavalier), to bolt produces a simi-larly sounding word (cavaler instead of cava-lIer).
The last association (Maurice Chevalier)results in a perfect match, except for the firstsyllable and the first name, which would have tobe dropped, of course.5.2.1 Search by progagation in the net-workI start from the assumption that the mental dic-tionary is a huge semantic network composed ofwords (nodes) and associations (links), eitherbeing able to activate the other.6 Finding a wordamounts thus to entering the network and tofollow the links leading to the target word.Being unable to access the desired word, a spea-ker being in the TOT-state may still be able torecognize it in a list.
If the list doesn?t containthe exact word, he is generally able to decidewhich word leads in the right direction, i.e.which word is most closely connected to thetarget word.Suppose you wanted to find the word nurse(target word), yet the only token coming to yourmind were hospital.
In this case the systemwould build (internally) a small semantic net-6The idea according to which the mental dictionary(or encyclopedia) is basically an associative network,composed of nodes (words or concepts) and links(associations) is not new.
Actually the very notion ofassociation goes back at least to Aristotle (350 beforeour time), but it is also inherent in work done byphilosophers (Locke, Hume) physiologists (James &Stuart Mills), psychologists (Galton, 1880 ; Freud,1901 ; Jung & Riklin, 1906) and psycholinguists(Deese, 1965 ; Jenkins, 1970, Schvaneveldt, 1989 ).For surveys in psycholinguistics see (H?rmann,1972 ; chapters 6-10), or more recent work (Spitzer,1999).
The notion of association is also implicit inwork on semantic networks (Sowa, 1992), hypertext(Bush, 1945), the web (Nelson, 1967), connectionism(Stemberger, 1985 ; Dell, 1986) and of course Word-Net (Miller, 1990, Fellbaum, 1998).work with hospital in the center (Figure 2a)and as immediate satellites all the words havinga direct link with it (Figure 2b).7 This process isrecursive: satellites can become the center, thustriggering a new search, and since the speakerknows the concept/word he is looking for, he islikely to encounter it sooner or later.Figure 2b shows the candidates from whichthe user is supposed to choose.
If he finds in anyof these groups the word he is looking for, theprocess halts, otherwise it goes on.
As you cansee words are presented in clusters.
Each clustercorresponds to a specific link.
The assumption isthat the user will use this information in order tojump quickly from one group to the next.This approach might work fine provided : 1)the speaker is able to come up with a word rea-sonably close to the target; 2) The dictionarycontains (or allows to infer) all the relations/associations a speaker typically uses.
This se-cond condition hardly ever holds.
Hence, weneed to find out what these assocations are.Also, while a single piece of information (aword, a relationship or part of the definition) canbe useful, it is obviously better to provide moreinformation (number of syllables, sound, ori-gine, etc.)
as it will reduce the search space.dentistassistant akonear-synonymnursegynecologistphysicianhealthinstitutionclinicpatientsick personhospital doctorsanatoriumpsychiatric hospitalmilitary hospitalasylum synonymakotreatakoakoakoisaisaisaisaisaisatake care oftreatactoractoractorFigure 2a : Search based on propagation in a network(internal representation)7Of course, in case of ambiguity the user would haveto signal the specific meaning he has in mind.clinicsanatoriummilitary hospitalpsychiatric hospitaldoctorpatientnurseFigure 2b: proposed candidates grouped accordingto the nature of the link5.3 Search through a combination ofconceptual and linguistic constraintsAs mentionned already, a speaker finding him-self in the TOT state knows generally manythings about the object he is looking for: parts ofthe definition, ethymology, beginning/ending ofthe word, number of syllables, part of speech(noun, verb, adjectif, etc.
), and sometimes eventhe gender (Brown et McNeill,1966 ; Burke etal.
1991 ; Vigliocco et al,1997).
We could useall this information as constraints.
The interfacefor communicating this knowledge is somehowakin to what MEDLINE offers to researchershelping them to specify the kind of book theyare looking for.6 ConclusionI have drawn the readers?
attention to the im-portance of word access in the context of NLG:information must not only be available, it mustalso be accessible.
While this problem may notbe relevant for NLG in general, or in the strictcomputational linguistic?s framework, it cer-tainly is relevant when we look at generation asa machine mediated process (people using aword processors for writing), or from a psycho-linguistic point of view: word access in writingor (spontaneous) discourse.
Looking at some ofthe psycholinguistic findings, and looking at thework done on spell checking, it seemed thatsome of the techniques developed in the contextof the latter could profitably be used in the do-main of the former.
While the use of certain spellchecking techniques can certainly enhance wordaccess in speaking and writing (hence the poten-tial of electronic dictionaries associated withword processors), more work is needed in orderto adjust the method to be in line with psycho-linguistic data and in order to keep the searchspace small.I have also tried to show that in order to sup-port a speaker being in the TOT-state, we needto create an associative memory.
That is, I'veraised and partially answered the question whatkind of information semantic networks need tohave in order to be able to help a speaker beingin this state.
Actually, my basic proposal is tobuild a system akin to WordNet, but containingmany more links ?
in particular on the hori-zontal plane.
These links are basically associa-tions, whose role consists in helping the speakerto find either related ideas to a given stimulus,(concept/idea/word - brainstorming), or to findthe word he is thinking of (word access).
Hence,future work will consist in identifying the mostuseful assocations, by considering relevant workin linguistics8 and in collecting data by runningpsycholinguistic expermiments.
For example,one could ask people to label the links for thewords (associations) they have given in responseto a stimulus (word) ; or one could also ask themto lable couples of words (eg.
apple-fruit, lemon-yellow, etc.).
A complementary approach wouldbe to look for lexical-data-base mining-strate-gies, as the desired information may be distri-buted or burried deep down in the base.
Finally,one can also look at texts and try to extract au-tomatically co-occurences (see Rapp & Wettler,1991 ; Wettler & Rapp 1992).ReferencesAitchinson, J.
(1987) Words in the Mind: an Intro-duction to the Mental Lexicon, Oxford, Blackwell.Aitchison, J., A. Gilchrist & D. Bawden (2000) The-saurus construction and use : a practical ma-nual,Fitzroy Deaborn Pbs, ChicagoAristotle (350 before JC) De memoria et reminiscen-tia.
In Parva Naturalia, VrinBaddeley, A.
(1982) Your memory: A user's guide.PenguinBrown, R and Mc Neill, D. (1966).
The tip of thetongue  phenomenon.
Journal of Verbal Learningand Verbal Behavior, 5, 325-337Burke, D.M., D.G.
MacKay, J.S.
Worthley & E.Wade (1991) ?On the Tip of the Tongue:WhatCauses Word Finding Failures in Young and OlderAdults?
?, Journal of Memory and Language 30,542-579.8For example, have a look at Mel?cuk?s lexical func-tion, (Mel?cuk et al (1992)  and Fillmore?s FRAME-NET approach (Johnson et al 2001)Bush, V. (1945) "As we may think".
The AtlanticMonthly; Volume 176, No.
1; pp.
101-108Butterworth, B.
(1989) Lexical Acces in SpeechProduction.
In, W. Marslen-Tayler  (Ed.
).Clark, H & Eve V. Clark, (1977) Psychology andLanguage.Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich, New YorkCrouch, C. (1990).
An approach to the automaticconstruction of global thesauri.
Information Pro-cessing and Management, vol.
26, no.
5, pp.
624-640Deese, J.
(1965) The structure of associations in lan-guage and thought.
BaltimoreDell, G. S., Chang, F., and Griffin, Z. M. (1999),"Connectionist Models of Language Production:Lexical Access and Grammatical Encoding," Cog-nitive Science, 23/4, pp.
517-542.Fellbaum, C. ( Ed.)
1998, WordNet : an electroniclexical database, Cambridge (Massachusetts), TheMIT Press.Fournier, J.P & S. Letellier.
(1990) PIC: a ParallelIntelligent Corrector.
Artificial Intelligence Appli-cation & Neural Networks AINN'90, pp 38-41,Z?richFreud, S. (1901) Psychopathology of everyday life.Paris : Payot, 1997.Fromkin, V. (1973) (Ed.)
Speech errors as linguisticevidence.
The Hague: Mouton PublishersGalton, F. (1880).
Psychometric experiments.
Brain,2, 149-162.H?rmann H. (1972).
Introduction ?
la psycholin-guistique.
Paris: LarousseJenkins, J.J. (1970).
The 1952 Minnesota word asso-ciation norms.
In: L. Postman, G. Keppel (eds.
):Norms of Word Association.
New York: AcademicPress, 1-38.Johnson, R, C. Fillmore, E. Wood, J. Ruppenhofer,M.
Urban, M. Petruck, C. Baker (2001) The Fra-meNet Project: Tools for Lexicon Building,http://www.icsi.berkeley.edu/~framenet/Jung, C.G., Riklin, F. (1906).
Experimentelle Unter-suchungen ?ber Assoziationen Gesunder.
In: C.G.Jung (ed.
): Diagnostische Assoziationsstudien.Leipzig: Barth, 7-145.Levelt, W. (1992).
Accessing Words in Speech Pro-duction: Stages, Processes and Representations.Cognition 42: 1-22.Marslen-Taylor, W.
(Ed.)
(1979) Lexical Repre-sentation and Process, Bradford book, MIT Press,Cambridge, Mass.Mel'cuk, I. et al (1992) Dictionnaire Explicatif etCombinatoire du fran?ais contemporain.
Recherchelexico-s?mantique III.
Les presses de l?universit?de Montr?al.Miller, G.A., ed.
(1990).
WordNet: An On-Line Lexi-cal Database.
International Journal of Lexico-graphy, 3(4).Nelson, T. (1967) Xanadu Projet hypertextuel,http://xanadu.com/Palermo, D., Jenkins, J.
(1964).
Word AssociationNorms.
Minneapolis, MN: University of MinnesotaPress.Perreault, J.
(1965).
Categories and relators: a newschema.
In Rev.Int.
Doc., vol.
32, no.4, pp.136-144Rapp, R. & M. Wettler (1991) A connectionist simu-lation of word associations.
Int.
Joint Conf.
onNeural Network, SeattleRobin, J.
(1990) A Survey of Lexical Choice in Natu-ral Language Generation, Technical Report CUCS040-90, Dept.
of Computer Science, University ofColumbiaSchvaneveldt, R.
(Ed.)
(1989) Pathfinder AssociativeNetworks : studies in knowledge organization.Ablex, Norwood, New JersaySowa, J.
(1992) "Semantic networks," Encyclopediaof Artificial Intelligence, edited by S. C. Shapiro,Wiley, New YorkSpitzer, M. (1999).
The mind within the net : modelsof learning, thinking and acting.
A Bradford book.MIT Press, CambridgeStemberger, J. P. (1985) "An interactive activationmodel of language production."
In A. W. Ellis [ed]Progress in the Psychology of Language, Vol.
1,143-186.
Erlbaum.Vigliocco, G., Antonini, T., & Garrett, M. F. (1997).Grammatical gender is on the tip of Italian tongues.Psychological Science, 8, 314-317.Wanner, L. (1996).
Lexical Choice in Text Gene-ration and Machine Translation: Special Issue onLexical Choice, Machine Translation.
L. W.
(ed.
).Dordrecht, Kluwer Academic Publishers.
11: 3-35.Ward, N. (1988).
Issues in Word Choice.
COLING-88, Budapest.Wettler, M. & R. Rapp (1992) Computation of Wordassociations based on the co-occurences of wordsin large corporaWettler, M. (1980) Sprache, Ged?chtnis, Verstehen.Berlin, de GruyterZock, M. & J.-P. Fournier (2001).
How can compu-ters help the writer/speaker experiencing the Tip-of-the-Tongue Problem ?, Proc.
of RANLP, TzigovChark, pp.
300-302
