Digraph Analysis of Dictionary Preposition DefinitionsKenneth C. LitkowskiCL Research9208 Gue RoadDamascus, MD 20872ken@clres.comAbstractWe develop a model of preposition definitionsin a machine-readable dictionary using thetheory of labeled directed graphs and analyzethe resulting digraphs to determine a primitiveset of preposition senses.
We characterizethese primitives and show how they can beused to develop an inheritance hierarchy forprepositions, representing the definitions by atype and slots for its arguments.
By analyzingthe definitions, we develop criteria fordisambiguating among the highly polysemousprimitives.
We show how these criteria can beused in developing the inheritance hierarchyand how they may be used in assigning thetaroles to the objects of transitive verbs.
Finally,we describe the use of the disambiguationcriteria to parse and represent the meaning ofthe prepositions as used in encyclopediaarticles.1?????????????
?IntroductionPrepositions have generally been viewed asfunction words to be discarded in many naturallanguage processing applications.
However,prepositions have considerable importance asidentifiers of semantic relations tying variouselements of a sentence together.
Since manyprepositions are highly polysemous, it is necessaryto develop a finer-grained analyses of theirmeanings so that the semantic relations can bemore accurately identified.We have modeled preposition definitions in adictionary using directed labeled graphs (digraphs)to identify primitive preposition senses.
We haveused the definitions from a machine-readableversion of a comprehensive English dictionary.2?????????????
?Modeling Preposition DefinitionsA preposition is ?a word governing, and usuallypreceding, a noun or pronoun and expressing arelation to another word or element in the clause.
?The definition of a preposition takes two principalforms: (1) a usage expression characterizing therelation or (2) an expression that can be substitutedfor the preposition.
A substituting prepositiondefinition usually consists of a prepositional phrase(including both a preposition and a noun phrase)and a terminating preposition (e.g., for around, onedefinition is ?on every side of?).2.1???????
?Headwords as Digraph NodesA digraph consists of nodes and directed arcsbetween the nodes.
In general, an arc shouldcorrespond to a transitive relation.
Modeling adictionary with a digraph entails assigning aninterpretation to the nodes and arcs.
For our initialmodel, we subsume all the definitions of apreposition as one node in the digraph, labeled bythe preposition.
An arc is drawn from one node(e.g., of) to another (e.g., around) if the prepositionrepresented by the first node contributes a typedmeaning component with an open slot to thepreposition represented by the second node, e.g.,?part-of of around?
would arise from thedefinition of around (?on every side of?
).Loosely, for our purposes, the terminatingpreposition acts as a genus term in an ISAhierarchy and makes it possible to use the resultsfrom digraph theory to analyze the relationshipsbetween definitions.
In particular, digraph analysisidentifies definitional cycles and ?primitives?
andarranges the nodes into an inheritance hierarchy.When a dictionary is modeled like this, digraphtheory (Harary, et al 1965) indicates that there isa ?basis set?
of nodes, which may be viewed as aJuly 2002, pp.
9-16.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Disambiguation: Recent Successes and Future Directions, Philadelphia,Proceedings of the SIGLEX/SENSEVAL Workshop on Word Senseset of primitives.1Many prepositions are not used as the finalpreposition of other preposition definitions(specifically, their nodes have an outdegree of 0).These are the leaves of the inheritance hierarchy.When these are removed from the dictionary, otherprepositions will come to have outdegree 0, andmay in turn be removed.
After all such iterations,the remaining nodes are ?strongly connected?, thatis, for every node, there is a path to each othernode; a strong component is an equivalence classand corresponds to a definitional cycle.Each strong component may now be viewed asa node.
Some of these nodes also have the propertythat they have outdegree 0; these strong componentmay also be removed from the dictionary.
This mayintroduce a new round where individual nodes orstrong components have outdegree 0 and hencemay be removed from the dictionary.After all removals, what is left is a set of oneor more strong components, each of which isunreachable from the other.
This final set is viewedas the set of primitives.
What this means is that wehave converted the preposition dictionary into aninheritance hierarchy.
If we can characterize themeanings of the primitives, we can then inheritthese meanings in all the words and definitions thathave been previously been removed.2.2???????
?Definitions as Digraph NodesThis model of prepositions is very coarse, lumpingall senses into one node.
Having reduced the set ofprepositions with this model, we can initiate a newround of digraph analysis by disambiguating thefinal preposition.
In this new model, each noderepresents a single sense and the arc between twonodes indicates that one specific sense is used todefine one specific sense of another word (i.e.,?contributes a typed meaning component with anopen slot to?
).With this new model, we can enter into afurther round of digraph analysis.
In this round,which proceeds as above, instead of a set ofprimitive prepositions, the outcome will be a set ofprimitive preposition definitions.
However, asmentioned above, preposition definitions come intwo flavors.
The usage expressions are lumped intothe digraph analysis when a node corresponded toall definitions, but they do not do so in thedefinition digraph analysis.3   NODE PrepositionsAs the data for the digraph analysis, we began withthe 155 prepositions identified in amachine-readable dictionary (The New OxfordDictionary of English, 1998) (NODE).
Additionalprepositions are found as unmarked phrases undernoun or adjective headwords, but not so labeled,e.g., in spite of under the headword spite.
To findthese prepositions, we developed a more rigorousspecification of a preposition signature.
Apreposition definition is either (1) a preposition; (2)a prepositional phrase + a preposition; (3) (anoptional leading string) + a transitive presentparticiple; or (4) a leading string + an infinitive ofa transitive verb.
This led to the addition of 218phrasal prepositions, for a total of 373 entries, with847 senses, shown in the Appendix.We may have missed other subsenses that havea preposition signature.
In all likelihood, thesepatterns would enter the digraph analysis as nodeswith outdegree 0 and hence would be eliminated inthe first stage of the primitive analysis.3.1???????
?Substitutable DefinitionsMost preposition definitions are in a form that canbe substituted for the preposition.
For a sense ofagainst (?as protection from?
), with an example?he turned up his collar against the wind?, thedefinition can be fully substituted to obtain ?heturned up his collar as protection from the wind.
?The preposition definitions were parsed,putting them into a generic sentence frame, usually?Something is [prepdef] something.?
For example,the definition of ahead of (?in store for?)
would beparsed as ?Something is in store for something.
?1The determination of the ?basis set?
of a digraph isNP-complete However, as pointed out in (Litkowski,1988), this process will not involve millions ofnodes.
In our implementation of the algorithm forfinding strong components (Even 1980), the digraphanalysis of prepositions takes less than two seconds.For definitions with a selectional restriction on thepreposition?s object (identifiable by a parenthesizedexpression in the definition), the parentheses wereremoved in the sentence frame, e.g., above (?higherthan (a specified amount, rate, or norm)?)
would beparsed as ?Something is higher than a specifiedamount, rate, or norm.
?The parse tree would then be analyzed toobtain the final preposition, treated as thehypernym.
For definitions containing a verb at theend, e.g., another sense of above (?overlooking?,parsed as ?Something is overlooking something?
)would yield ?overlooking?
as the hypernym.3.2???????
?Usage Note DefinitionsMany preposition definitions are not substitutable,but rather characterize how the preposition is usedsyntactically and semantically.
One sense of of(?expressing the relationship between a part and awhole?)
characterizes the semantic relationship (inthis case, the partitive).
One of its subsenses (?withthe word denoting the part functioning as the headof the phrase?)
indicates syntactic characteristicswhen this sense is used.
These definitions are notparsed and do not lead to the identification ofhypernyms.
As shown below, these definitions willemerge as the primitives.3.3???????
?Definition ModificationsThe automatic generation of preposition hypernymswas less than perfect.
We examined each definitionand made various hand modifications.
Our editingprocess included hand entry of hypernyms: addingor modifying automatically generated hypernyms,making hypernymic links for ?non-standard?entries (e.g., making upon the hypernym of ?pon),and creating hypernymic links from a subsense toa supersense4 Digraph Analysis ResultsThe digraph analysis described above eliminated309 of the 373 entries.
The remaining 64 entrieswere grouped into 25 equivalence classes, asshown in Table 1 and portrayed in Figure 1 in theappendix.
Figure 1 shows how these strongcomponents are related to one another.
The strongcomponents highlighted in the table are primitives.Seven of the primitive strong components (in, of,than, as, from, as far as, and including) havepaths into strong component 12.
Strongcomponents 14 to 18 arise essentially from theprimitive strong component of.
The eighth strongcomponent (23) and other entries defined by wordsin this class exist somewhat independently.It would seem that the largest strongcomponent (12, with 33 entries) should be brokendown into smaller classes; this would occur in thesense-specific digraph analysis.
Specialized sensesof with, by, to, for, and before give rise todefinitional cycles within this strong component.In addition to the strong components shownabove, 62 non-prepositional primitives have beenidentified.
The first 42 of these primitives wereused in defining entries that were removed in thefirst phase of the digraph analysis.
The 20beginning with affect were used in defining entriesin the primitive strong components.There are 155 preposition senses (out of 847)that are defined solely with usage notes.
Of these,71 are subsenses, leaving 74 senses in 26 entries(as shown in Table 3) that can be considered themost primitive senses and deserving initial focus inattempting to lay out the meanings of allpreposition senses.5 Interpretation of ResultsThe digraph analysis of prepositions providesadditional perspectives in understanding theirmeanings and their use.
To begin with, the analysisenables us to identify definitional cycles and movetoward the creation of an inheritance hierarchy.The large number of senses that have verbhypernymic roots indicates a close kinship betweenprepositions and verbs, suggesting that a verbhierarchy may provide an organizing principle forprepositions (discussed further below).
The largenumber of senses rooted in usage notes, whichessentially characterize how these senses function,encapsulates the role of prepositions as ?functionwords;?
however, as described below, thesefunctions are not simply syntactic in nature, butalso capture semantic roles.Table 1 Strong ComponentsEntries1 over, above2 against3 but4 along5 on6 via, by way of7 through8 touching9 until, up to10 below, underneath11 inside, within12 in favour of, along with, with respect to, inproportion to, in relation to, in connectionwith, with reference to, in respect of, asregards, concerning, about, with, in place of,instead of, in support of, except, other than,apart from, in addition to, behind, beside, nextto, following, past, beyond, after, to, before, infront of, ahead of, for, by, according to13 in14 across15 by means of16 in the course of17 during18 on behalf of19 of20 than21 as22 from23 by reason of, because of, on account of24 as far as25 includingTable 2Non-Prepositional Primitivesembrace, incur, lose, injure, called, taking intoconsideration, taking account of, help, guide, interest,impress, providing, exceeding, requiring, needing,losing, injuring, restrain, see, attaining, support,defend, award, subtracting, nearly, cover, exclude,involving, undergoing, do, encircle, separating, takinginto account, concerns, lacking, encircling, hit,achieving, using, involve, affect, overlooking,awaiting, having, being, reach, preceding, constituting,affecting, representing, facing, promote, obtain,containing, approaching, almost, taking, complete,reaching, concern, possessing, wearingThe frequency with which the variousprepositions are used as hypernyms in definingother prepositions reveals something about theirrelative importance.
The most frequent hypernymsare of (175), to (74), than (45), with (44), by (39),from (30), for (22), as (20), and in (12).
Theseprepositions correspond to the primitives identifiedin Table 1, as well as those with the largest numberof usage notes shown in Table 3.Table 3Usage-Note Primitivesabout (2), as (1), as from (1), as of (1), at (6), between(1), but (1), by (7), for (6), from (11), in (7), in relationto (1), into (8), like (1), of (9), on (1), on the part of(1), out of (1), over (1), than (2), this side of (1), to (7),towards (1), under (1), up to (1), with (4)On the other hand, the relative frequencies maynot correspond well with our intuitions about asemantic classification of prepositions.
(Quirk, etal.
1985) give the greatest prominence to spatialand temporal meanings, followed by thecause/purpose spectrum, the means/agentivespectrum, accompaniment, and support andopposition, and finally, several miscellaneouscategories.
In the semantic relations hierarchy ofthe Unified Medical Language System (UMLS)(Unified Medical Language System 2002), fivegeneral types of associations are identified:physical, spatial, functional (causal), temporal, andconceptual.
The leaves of the UMLS hierarchy arerealized as verbs, but have a strong correspondenceto the classification in (Quirk, et al 1985).In our identification of primitives, including theusage notes, spatial and temporal senses areconspicuously reduced in significance, while acomparative term (than) seems to have a muchgreater presence.
The explanation for these twoobservations is that (1) many of the basic spatialand temporal prepositions were located in thelargest strong component (12 in Table 1) or werederived from it and (2) many of the senses of thesespatial and temporal prepositions have ?than?
ashypernym.
This suggests that a considerableamount of the meaning of such prepositions lieprincipally in describing relative position in aspatio-temporal continuum.6 Developing an InheritanceHierarchyAs suggested earlier, the next stage of digraphanalysis involves disambiguating the hypernymicpreposition, so that individual nodes of the digraphrepresent senses or concepts.
As suggested in(Litkowski, 1978), these nodes will consist of agloss and the various lexicalizations the concept,much like the synsets in WordNet (Fellbaum1998).
A prototypical case would be strongcomponent 23 which may be lexicalized as {byreason of, because of, on account of}; ouranalysis suggests that, in this case, some furthercharacterization of the usage of this concept by thelexicographers would be desirable, since otherwisewe have only a vicious definitional cycle.The creation of the hierarchy would involveassigning a label or type to the individual conceptsand then characterizing the information that is to beinherited.
The typology can be developed from thebottom up, rather than developing some a prioristructure.
In other words, since the digraphanalysis has identified primitive senses, theseprovide an appropriate starting point.
Each sensecan be examined on its own merits with an initialassignment of a type and later examination of thefull set of primitives for organization into a data-driven set of types and subtypes.As to what gets inherited, we begin with thefact that in general, each preposition has twoarguments, arg1 (the object of the preposition) andarg2 (the attachment point, or head, of theprepositional phrase).
We may take these as thetwo slots associated with each representation andwe may give the slots names according to the type(or just implicitly understand that a type hasparticular types of arguments).
When consideringthe general structure of a non-primitive prepositiondefinition (a prepositional phrase with an endingpreposition), the NP of the prepositional phrase isthe value of arg2.
This value will be useful indisambiguating the hypernymic preposition (asdescribed in the next section).
In considering theslots for prepositions whose hypernym is a verb (asidentified in Table 2), arg1 will be the object of theverb.7 Definition UseTo describe the process by which prepositionsenses will be disambiguated and also how therepresentations of their meaning will be used inprocessing text, Table 4 shows the definitions for?of?, the most frequently used hypernym andperhaps the second most frequent word in theEnglish language.
In the table, we have assigned atype to each of nine main senses.
In the definitioncolumn, the main sense is given first, with anysubsenses given in parentheses, separated bysemicolons if there is more than one subsense.First, we consider the disambiguation ofhypernyms in preposition definitions, that is, thosewhose final word is ?of?.
One sense of ?after?
is?in imitation of?
(e.g., ?a mystery story afterPoe?
); examining the table suggests that this is adeverbal use of ?of?, where the object of ?after?would be the object of the underlying verb of?imitation?, so that when ?after?
is used in thissense, its arg1 is the object of the verb ?imitate?.
Asense of ?on behalf of?
is ?as a representative of?
;this is the partitive sense, so that arg1 of ?onbehalf of?
is a ?whole?.
Finally, one sense of ?like?is ?characteristic of?
; this is the predicativedeverbal.
Carrying out this process throughout thepreposition definitions will thus enable us not onlyto disambiguate them, but also to identifycharacteristics of their arguments when theprepositions they define are used in some text.In addition, prepositions very often appear atthe end of the definitions of transitive verbs.
Forexample, one sense of ?accommodate?
is ?providelodging or sufficient space for?, where the sense of?for?
is ?to the benefit of?, where ?of?
is used inthe genitive sense (i.e., ?someone?s or something?sbenefit).
With this interpretation, we can say thatthe object of ?accommodate?
is a benefactive andthat a benefactive role has been lexicalized into themeaning of ?accommodate?.
With disambiguationof the final preposition in such definitions, we willbe able to characterize the objects of these verbswith some theta role.The ultimate objective of this analysis ofprepositions is to be able to characterize theiroccurrences in processing text.
Specifically, wewould like to disambiguate a preposition, so thatwe can assign each instance a type and characterizeits arguments.
In this way, processing a text wouldidentify the semantic relations present in the text.We have performed some initial investigations intothe viability of this goal.We have begun implementing a discourseanalysis of encyclopedia articles.
At the base ofthis analysis, we are identifying and characterizingdiscourse entities, essentially the noun phrases.
OurTable 4.
Definitions of ?of?Type Definition (Subsense(s))1.
Partitive relationship between a part and a whole (part functioning as head; after a number, quantifier, orpartitive noun, with the word denoting the whole functioning as the head of the phrase)2.
Scale-Value relationship between a scale or measure and a value (an age)3.
Genitive association between two entities, typically one of belonging (relationship between an author, artist, orcomposer and their works collectively)4.
Direction relationship between a direction and a point of reference5.
Hypernym relationship between a general category and the thing being specified which belongs to such acategory (governed by a noun expressing the fact that a category is vague)6.
Deverbal relationship between an abstract concept having a verb-like meaning and (a noun denoting the subjectof the underlying verb; the second noun denotes the object of the underlying verb; head of the phraseis a predicative adjective)7.
Indirect Object relationship between a verb and an indirect object (a verb expressing a mental state; expressing acause)8.
Substance the material or substance constituting something9.
Time time in relation to the following houranalysis includes identification of the syntactic roleand semantic type of the noun phrases, along withattributes such as number and gender.
The analysisalso includes resolution of anaphora, coreferences,and definite noun phrases.
The modules analyzingthe discourse entities come after a full parse ofeach sentence.
We have now introduced a moduleto examine prepositions and build semanticrelations.
The results of these analyses generate anXML representation of discourse segments,discourse entities, and semantic relations, each withan accompanying set of attributes.Our implementation of the semantic relationmodule has identified several issues of interest.First, the characterization of the semantic relationneeds to come after the object of the prepositionalphrase has been analyzed for its discourse entityproperties.
For example, if the object is ananaphor, the antecedent needs to be established.Second, the attachment points of the prepositionalphrase need to be identified; our parser establishesa stack of possible attachment points (indexpositions in the sentence), with the most likely atthe top of the stack.
(Attachment tests could beimplemented at this point, although we have not yetdone so.)
The attachment point is necessary toidentify the arguments to be analyzed.Having identified the arguments, theinformation subject to analysis includes the literalarguments (both the full phrase and their roots), theparts of speech of the arguments, any semanticcharacterizations of the arguments that areavailable (such as the WordNet file number), andaccess to the dictionary definitions of the rootheads.
The analysis for the semantic relation isspecific to the preposition.
We are encoding asemantic relation type and one or more tests witheach sense.
Some of these tests are simple, such asstring matches, and others are complex, involvingfunction calls to examine semantic relationshipsbetween the arguments.In the case of ?of?, the first test was whetherarg2 is an adjective, in which case we assigned atype of ?predicative?.
Next, if arg2 was a vaguegeneral category (?form?, ?type?, or ?kind?
), weset the type to ?hypernymic?.
If neither of theseconditions was satisfied, we looked up the root ofarg2 in WordNet to determine if the word had a?part-of?
relation (resulting in a ?partitive?
type)or ?member-of?
relation (resulting in a?hypernymic?
type).
If a type had not beenestablished by this point, we used the WordNet filenumber to establish an intermediate type.
Thus, forexample, if arg2 was an ?action?
or ?process?word, we set the type for the semantic relation to?deverbal?
; for a ?quantity?, we set the type to?partitive?.
Finally, we can make use of thedefinition for arg1 (parsed to identify itshypernym) to determine if arg2 is the hypernym ofarg1.
When these criteria are not sufficient, welabel the type ?undetermined?.In our encyclopedia project, we parse andprocess the articles to generate XML files.
We thenapply an XSL transformation to extract all thesemantic relations that were identified, includingthe preposition, the type assigned, and the values ofFigure 1.
Basis Digraph of NODE Prepositionsarg1 and arg2.
We can sort on these fields tofacilitate analysis of our success and to identifysituations in need of further work.After the initial implementation, we were ableto assign semantic relations to 50 percent of theinstances of ?of?, although many of these weregiven incorrect assignments.
However, the methodis useful for identifying instances for whichimproved analysis is necessary.
For example, wecan identify where improved characterization ofdiscourse entities is needed, or where additionallexical information might be desirable (such as howto identify a partitive noun).8 Conclusions and Further WorkWe have shown that a digraph analysis ofpreposition definitions provides a useful organizingprinciple for analyzing and understanding themeanings of prepositions.
The definitionsthemselves provide sufficient information fordeveloping an inheritance hierarchy within a typed-feature structure arrangement and also provide arich set of criteria for disambiguating among themany senses.
By incorporating these criteria in atext processing system, it is possible to developsemantic triples that characterize intrasententialrelationships among discourse entities.
Further, thecharacterization of meanings may prove useful inidentifying theta roles implied by the endingprepositions of transitive verb definitionsMuch work remains to be done to develop thefull set of information for all prepositions.
Webelieve we have established a suitable frameworkfor carrying out this work.ReferencesEven, S. (1980).
Graph Algorithms.
Rockville, MD:Computer Science Press.Fellbaum, C. (1998).
(Ed.
), WordNet: An ElectronicLexical Database (pp.
69-104).
Cambridge,Massachusetts: The MIT Press.Harary, F., Norman, R. Z., & Cartwright, D. (1965).Structural models: An introduction to the theoryof directed graphs.
New York: John Wiley andSons, Inc.Litkowski, K. C. (1988).
On the search for semanticprimitives.
Computational Linguistics, 14(1),52.Litkowski, K. C. (1978).
Models of the semanticstructure of dictionaries.
American Journal ofComputational Linguistics, Mf.81, 25-74.The New Oxford Dictionary of English.
(1998) (J.Pearsall, Ed.).
Oxford: Clarendon Press.Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G., & Svartik, J.(1985).
A comprehensive grammar of theEnglish language.
London: Longman.Unified Medical Language System KnowledgeSources.
(13thed.).
(2002).
Bethesda, MD:National Library of Medicine.#?
la#'cept#'gainst#'mongst#'pona cut aboveabaftabahtaboardaboutaboveabsentaccording toacrossaforeafterafter the fashion ofagainstaginahead ofall forall ofall overalongalong ofalong withalongsideamidamidstamongamongstan apology foranentantianything likeanywhere nearapart fromaproposaroundasas far asas foras fromas ofas regardsas toaside fromaslantastraddleastrideatat a range ofat peril ofat right angles toat the expense ofat the hand ofat the hands ofat the heels ofat the instance ofat the mercy ofathwartatopback ofbarbare ofbarringbecause ofbeforebehindbelowbeneathbesidebesidesbetweenbetwixtbeyondbutbut forbyby courtesy ofby dint ofby force ofby means ofby reason ofby the hand ofby the hands ofby the name ofby the side ofby virtue ofby way ofcare ofchezcircacomecomplete withconconcerningconsideringcontrary tocountingcourtesy ofcumdandehorsdepending ondespitedespite ofdowndue toduringereeven asevery bit asexexceptexcept forexceptingexcludingexclusive offailingfollowingforfor allfor the benefit offor the love offorbyforbyeforefornenstfornentfraefromgive or takegivengonegood forhaving regard tohead and shoulders aboveinin accord within addition toin advance ofin aid ofin answer toin back ofin bed within behalf ofin case ofin common within company within connection within consideration ofin contravention ofin consequence ofin default ofin despite ofin excess ofin face ofin favor ofin favour ofin front ofin honor ofin honour ofin keeping within lieu ofin light ofin line within memoriamin need ofin obedience toin peril ofin place ofin proportion toin rein reference toin regard toin relation toin respect ofin restraint ofin sight ofin spite ofin succession toin support ofin terms ofin the act ofin the cause ofin the course ofin the face ofin the fashion ofin the gift ofin the grip ofin the heat ofin the interest ofin the interests ofin the light ofin the matter ofin the midst ofin the name ofin the nature ofin the pay ofin the person ofin the shape ofin the teeth ofin the throes ofin the way ofin token ofin view ofin virtue ofin withincludinginclusive ofinshore ofinsideinside ofinstead ofintointo the arms ofirrespective oflesslikelittle short ofmidmidstminusmodmodulomore likenearnear toneathnextnext door tonext tonighnone the worse fornot a patch onnot someone's idea ofnothing short ofnotwithstandingo'o'erofof the name ofof the order ofoffoffaonon a level withon a par withon account ofon behalf ofon pain ofon the order ofon the part ofon the point ofon the right side ofon the score ofon the strength ofon the stroke ofon the wrong side ofon top ofontooppositeother thanoutout forout ofout of keeping without of line withoutaoutboard ofoutsideoutside ofouttaoutwithoverover againstover and aboveovertopowing topacepastpendingperpluspreparatory toprevious toprior topropursuant toquareregardingregardless ofrelative torespectingroundround aboutsanssavesavingshort forshort ofshot through withsick and tired ofsincestrong onsubsequent tothanthanks tothe better part ofthis side ofthro'throughthroughoutthruthwarttilltoto the accompaniment ofto the exclusion ofto the tune ofto windward oftogether withtouchingtowardtowardsuhunderunder pain ofunder cover ofunder sentence ofunder the auspices ofunder the banner ofunder the baton ofunder the heel ofunderneathunknown tounlikeuntiluntoupup againstup and downup beforeup forup onup toup to one's elbows inup to one's neck inuponupward ofupwards ofvv.versusviavicevis-?-visvswhilewithwith a view towith one eye onwith reference towith regard towith respect towith the exception ofwithalwithinwithin a measurable distance ofwithin sight ofwithoutTable A-2 Prepositions in the New Oxford Dictionary of English
