Enhanced Free Text Access to Anatomically-Indexed DataGail SinclairInformatics DivisionUniversity of Edinburgh80 South BridgeEdinburgh, UK EH1 1HNcarols@dai.ed.ac.ukBonnie WebberInformatics DivisionUniversity of Edinburgh2 Buccleuch PlaceEdinburgh, UK EH8 9LWbonnie.webber@ed.ac.ukDuncan DavidsonMRC Human Genetics UnitWestern General HospitalCrewe RoadEdinburgh, UK EH4 2XUduncan.davidson@hgu.mrc.ac.ukAbstractWe describe our use of an existing re-source, the Mouse Anatomical Nomen-clature, to improve a symbolic interfaceto anatomically-indexed gene expressiondata.
The goal is to reduce user effort inspecifying anatomical structures of inter-est and increase precision and recall.1 IntroductionLanguage Technology (LT) resources are time-consuming and expensive to develop, and appli-cations rarely have the luxury of calling upon re-sources specially designed for the task at hand.
ForLT applications in developmental biology such asrobust interfaces to anatomically-indexed gene ex-pression data and text mining tools to assist in build-ing such databases, resources already exist in theform of anatomical nomenclatures for several modelorganisms including mouse, zebrafish, drosophilaand human.
(Others may follow.)
These nomen-clatures have been developed by biologists for biol-ogists, to record in a clear, intuitive and structuredway the structures that can be distinguished at eachstage of an embryo?s development.
The challengefor LT applications in developmental biology is tostretch them to serve other purposes as well.In this paper, we describe how we have taken oneof these anatomical nomenclatures (mouse) and ex-tracted from it a new resource to facilitate free textaccess to anatomically-indexed data.
The techniqueswe have used are applicable to anatomical nomen-clatures for other model organisms as well.The paper is organised as follows: In Section 2,we describe the Mouse Atlas, which is the particularcontext for the interface we are developing.
Sec-tion 3 describes what we are doing to reduce theamount of effort a user has to expend in specifyinganatomical structures of interest to them.
In Sec-tion 4, we describe how what we did to reduce usereffort also serves to provide a clearer display of theresults of searching.
Then in Sections 5 and 6, wedescribe what we are doing to increase the precisionand recall of user queries.2 The Mouse AtlasThe Mouse Atlas, developed by researchers at theMedical Research Council?s Human Genetics Unit(MRC HGU) in Edinburgh, is a 3D atlas of mouseembryo development (http://genex.hgu.mrc.ac.uk).Anatomical structures within each of the 26 TheilerStages of embryo development are labelled, and 3Dreconstructions of each stage can be displayed intransverse, frontal, sagittal or arbitrary planes.The Mouse Atlas is now being used to support in-dexing of gene expression data, allowing the resultsof gene expression experiments to be indexed withrespect to where genes are expressed in the devel-oping embryo.
There are at least two ways of usinganatomy to index gene expression data.
In spatialindexing, data is associated directly with volume el-ements, voxels of the anatomical model.
In symbolicindexing, gene expression data is associated with alabel specifying a pre-defined region of the embryo.A database of spatially indexed gene expres-sion data (the EMAGE database) is being devel-oped at the MRC HGU.
A database of symboli-cally indexed gene expression data (the Gene Ex-pression Database or GXD) is being developedby the Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, MaineAssociation for Computational Linguistics.the Biomedical Domain, Philadelphia, July 2002, pp.
45-52.Proceedings of the Workshop on Natural Language Processing in(http://www.informatics.jax.org).
Indexing in theGXD uses the Mouse Anatomical Nomenclature, aset of 26 trees of anatomical terms (one tree perTheiler Stage) structured primarily by part-whole re-lations (and some set-member relations).The root node of each Theiler Stage tree corre-sponds to the entire embryo at that stage, while othernodes correspond to organ systems, subsystems,spatially-localised parts of subsystems, or anatom-ical structures.
Each node within a tree has a la-bel (its component term), but component terms arenot meant to serve as unique designators: the onlything guaranteed to denote an anatomical structureuniquely is the sequence of component terms thatcomprises a path from the root node.
Thus paths(and only paths) can serve as keys for symbolic in-dexing of data.
For example the component termCRANIAL labels both a child of GANGLION (i.e.,ganglia located in the head) and a child of NERVE(i.e., nerves located in the head).
The path to thislatter childEMBRYO.ORGANSYSTEM.NERVOUSSYSTEM.CENTRALNERVOUSSYSTEM.NERVE.CRANIAL.TRIGEMINALVuniquely denotes the trigeminal, or fifth cranial,nerve1 within the Theiler Stage denoted by its rootand is used as a key for relevant data.For accessing gene expression data, both spatialand symbolic means are again both possible.
Anelegant spatial interface is being completed at theMRC HGU, that pairs an active window contain-ing a view of the embryo stage of interest, with awindow containing the corresponding nomenclaturetree2.
Clicking at a point in the embryo view high-lights the most specific corresponding node of thenomenclature being displayed (i.e., sub-trees of anode can be either hidden or exploded).
Similarly,clicking on a term in the nomenclature highlights thecorresponding structure within the embryo along theplane currently being displayed.
A screen-shot fromthe interface is shown in Figure 2.
On the left of thefigure is an outline frontal drawing of the embryo, onwhich a sagittal section plane is marked in red.
Thecentre panel shows a digital, sagittal section through1Full stop is used to separate component names along a path.2http://genex.hgu.mrc.ac.uk/Resources/GXDQuery1the volumetric embryo model with the delineatedleft dorsal aorta coloured blue.
The correspond-ing component term is highlighted on the MouseAnatomical Nomenclature on the right.
Users canaccess the gene expression data on the highlightedstructure by another mouse click.The current project aims at improving symbolicaccess to gene expression data by providing a robustfree-text interface.
In the current GXD interface3 ,users can tree-walk through the Mouse AnatomicalNomenclature for a given stage, to find the anatomi-cal structure whose associated gene expression datais of interest to them, or they can enter a term whichis matched against single component names, with allpossible substring matches returned for the user tochoose among.Problems exist with both forms of access.
It iswell known that navigating through a tree is tedious.A more subtle problem arises from anatomy beingforced into a tree-structure that it doesn?t have.
Thisleads to structures being divided and the resultingsub-structures realised in different parts of the tree ?for example, the endocardial tube is divided into onepart that is a daughter of COMMON ATRIAL CHAM-BER (i.e., its location), and another part which is adaughter of OUTFLOW TRACT.
So appearing to finda structure of interest by a tree-walk, in addition tobeing tedious, doesn?t by itself guarantee the userthat s/he has found it all.In contrast, access by sub-string matching on in-dividual component terms has problems of both re-call and precision.
A user may enter a string thatmatches nothing (0% recall): (1) it may be neither acomponent term nor a substring within a componentterm ?
e.g., while HEART is a common synonymfor the modifier ?cardiac?
(and a component termin its own right) and CARDIAC MUSCLE is a compo-nent term, the string ?heart muscle?
yields no match;or (2) it may span multiple component terms in thenomenclature ?
e.g., while GLAND is a componentterm, and PITUITARY is the component term of oneof its children (i.e., a member of the set of glands),the string ?pituitary gland?
yields no match.
Or theopposite may happen: 100% recall with low preci-sion.
For example, a search on ?hindbrain?
yields22 matches, while ?mesenchyme?
yields as many as3http://www.informatics.jax.org/menus/expression menuFigure 1: Screen shot of Mouse Atlas interface, displaying a Theiler Stage 14 embryo.1056 matches.The current project aims to provide a robust freetext interface that will avoid these and other prob-lems, (1) reducing the effort that a user needs toexpend in finding anatomical structures of inter-est; (2) better organising search results; (3) improv-ing recall by reducing the number of times that nomatch is found; and (4) improving precision overthat which is possible using substring matching onindividual component names.
To do this, we havebeen extracting from the Mouse Anatomical Nomen-clature another resource comprising a set of Natu-ral Language (NL) phrases that uniquely denote theparts of the embryo.
To expand this set, we havesemi-automatically culled other anatomical speci-fiers from a textbook on developmental anatomymade available to us in electronic form.
The inter-esting challenges this has posed are described in theremainder of the paper.3 Reducing User EffortAs already noted, component terms in the MouseAnatomical Nomenclature (as in those for othermodel organisms) are not unique designators foranatomical structures: the only unique designatorsare path specifications.
Thus technically, the onlyway a user can uniquely select an anatomical struc-ture of interest is to enter the entire path name (or tofind it through navigating an embryo stage tree downfrom its root).However, there are developmentally valid no-tions of uniqueness with respect to which someof the 1416 component terms associated with the13737 nodes in the 26 Theiler Stage trees of theMouse Anatomical Nomenclature can be taken to beunique.4The first such notion of uniqueness can be as-sociated with an anatomical structure that developsby some Theiler Stage j and then persists underthe same name through subsequent stages.
In theMouse Anatomical Nomenclature, this situation cor-responds, first off, to path specifications that differonly in their root note (which designates the embryo4The size of Theiler Stage trees ranges from 3 nodes in stage2 (early development) to 1739 nodes in stage 26 (pre-birth),with the average size being 528 nodes.at the corresponding Theiler Stage).
If the compo-nent term at the leaf does not occur elsewhere in thenomenclature outside this path specification, thenthis component name can be classified as unique.This notion of uniqueness was found to holdof 1017 of the 1416 component terms, includingCARDIOGENIC PLATE, CRANIUM, etc.
This meantthat approximately 11200 nodes were covered, withsomewhat over 2500 still remaining.
These 1017component terms could potentially be used to accessgene expression data associated with some or all ofthe Theiler Stages through which the uniquely des-ignated structure exists, except for a problem that wewill mention shortly.The second notion of uniqueness is an extensionof the first.
Before anatomical structures are fullyformed, they tend to be referred to by names that de-note the same anatomical structure but also conveythat it is not fully formed ?
for example, the FU-TURE FOREBRAIN.
Such component terms can belinked with the component term of the structure theydevelop into, treating the two together as a uniquedesignator across the extended sequence of TheilerStages.
A user seeking gene expression data for theFOREBRAIN without specifying a particular TheilerStage, could then select from stages 15-16, whichcontain the FUTURE FOREBRAIN, as well as fromstages 17-26, which contain the FOREBRAIN.In some cases, finding such terms is easy ?
specif-ically, when paths in adjacent stages differ only intheir root node and their potentially co-designatingleaf terms.
In other cases, the process is complicatedby the fact that their containing anatomical struc-tures are themselves developing and changing.
Thiscreates additional differences in paths that shouldbe taken to co-designate in this lineage sense.
Thedifference may simply be in the particular compo-nent term associated with a non-terminal node ?
e.g.FUTURE FOREBRAIN is a child of FUTURE BRAINin stages 15-16, while FOREBRAIN descends fromBRAIN in stages 17-26.
These cases can be iden-tified by verifying that the intermediate structuresare themselves in a lineage relation.
But the pathsmay also differ in length, the earlier stage path be-ing longer than its corresponding path in the nextstage.
This is because the earlier stage specifies thetissue from which the structure is developing from ?for example, the fibula develops from the lower legmesenchyme.
So the pathEMBRYO.LIMB.HINDLIMB.LEG.LOWERLEG.MESENCHYME.FIBULAis a unique designator in Stage23, becomingEMBRYO.LIMB.HINDLIMB.LEG.LOWERLEG.FIBULAin Stages 24 to 26.
To recognise such cases, weneed to analyse what nodes contribute to differencesin path length and decide whether two componentterms co-specify on that basis.Again, when these patterns are encountered, thecomponent names, providing they are not involvedin any other initial tree paths, can be classified asbeing unique, further reducing the number of namesto be disambiguated.
So far 44 of these lineage pat-terns have been identified, further eliminating ap-proximately 118 from the set of ambiguous compo-nent terms.The third notion of uniqueness that can be usedfor identifying component terms that can serve asunique designators can be called group uniqueness.For example, although the component term TOOTHappears in different path specifications, whose corre-sponding internal nodes are not pairwise equivalent?
e.g.EMBRYO.ORGAN SYSTEM.VISCERALORGAN.ALIMENTARY SYSTEM.ORALREGION.LOWER JAW.TOOTHEMBRYO.ORGAN SYSTEM.VISCERALORGAN.ALIMENTARY SYSTEM.ORALREGION.UPPER JAW.TOOTHwhere LOWER JAW does not co-specify with UPPERJAW, the pairwise different nodes may correspond tostructures whose anatomical/developmental proper-ties can, in the context of gene expression, be con-sidered the same.
This notion of group uniquenesswas found to hold of nine component terms, cover-ing approximately 260 of the remaining nodes.Before moving from individual component termsthat turn out to be unique designators for anatomi-cal structures, to short sequences of such terms, weneed to point out a separate problem in actually us-ing them in a user interface.
The problem followsfrom a design decision made in the development ofthese anatomical nomenclatures that supports theirintended use by biologists as clear and succinctstructural descriptions of an embryo.
Specifically,while an individual component term may turn outto be a unique specifier with respect to the Nomen-clature, outside the context of its tree path, it maynot signify to a biologist what it is intended to.
Forexample, while the term LOOP has been found touniquely denote the same anatomical structure asEMBRYO.ORGAN SYSTEM.VISCERAL ORGAN.ALIMENTARY SYSTEM.GUT.MIDGUT.LOOPa biologist would never simply use ?loop?
to referto the the loop of the midgut.
Similarly, while theterm DISTAL uniquely designates the same anatom-ical structure asEMBRYO.LIMB.FORELIMB.JOINT.RADIO-ULNARJOINT.DISTAL?distal?
on its own is not how any biologist wouldrefer to the joint of the radius and ulna bones that isfurthest from the shoulder.For the interface we are developing, we need toreplace these albeit unique component terms withphrases that are more natural to use in specifyingthese structures.Turning now to component terms that are notunique in any of the senses discussed so far, it stilldoes not appear to be the case that a user need en-ter an entire path specification to refer to its associ-ated anatomical structure.
In many cases, a sub-pathspecification of two, or in some cases, three compo-nent terms appears sufficient to specify the anatom-ical structure of interest.To find where shorter sub-paths would serve asa source of unique designators, we enumerated allsub-paths from nodes with a non-unique associatedcomponent term (either leaf or internal node) tothe root of their corresponding Theiler Stage tree(i.e., paths being specified in child-parent order).This revealed many cases where a unique two- orthree-component path specification would disam-biguate an otherwise ambiguous term, and allowedus to cover another 156 component terms via the 2-component terms and 50 via the 3-component terms.This has left only 58 of the original 1416 componentterms (and 1159 corresponding nodes in the Nomen-clature out of the original 13737) for us to inves-tigate other methods of finding unique designatorsfor.The question is what Natural Language phrasesthese multi-component terms correspond to, since itis such phrases that would be used in an interface,not sequences of component terms.
Slight varia-tions in what the parent-child relations correspondto mean there are three different phrasal patterns fortwo-component sub-paths: (1) In cases where thechild and parent nodes are in a part-whole relationand both are realised as nouns ?
e.g., a child withcomponent term CAPSULE descending from a par-ent LENS, or a parent CORTEX or a parent OVARYEMBRYO.ORGANSYSTEM.SENSORYORGAN.EYE.LENS.CAPSULEEMBRYO.ORGANSYSTEM.VISCERAL ORGAN.RENAL/URINARYSYSTEM.METANEPHROS.EXCRETORY COMPONENT.CORTEX.CAPSULEEMBRYO.ORGAN SYSTEM.VISCERAL ORGAN.REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM.FEMALE.OVARY.CAPSULEthe multi-component term can be realised as aphrase CHILD OF PARENT, generating the threeuniquely specifying phrases ?capsule of lens?, ?cap-sule of cortex?
and ?capsule of ovary?.
Alterna-tively, a natural phrase of the form PARENT CHILD,(i.e.
?lens capsule?, ?cortex capsule?
and ?ovarycapsule?
can also be constructed as a natural wayof describing the anatomical structure that the pathdenotes.
(2) In cases where the child and parent nodes arein a part-whole relation, but the component term as-sociated with the child is an adjective such as LEFT,UPPER or ANTERIOR, then the pattern CHILD PAR-ENT can be used to form an appropriate phrase.
Forexample, the path specificationEMBRYO.ORGANSYSTEM.CARDIOVASCULARSYSTEM.VENOUSSYSTEM.VENACAVA.INFERIORcan be accessed by the phrase ?inferior vena cava?.
(3) In cases where the child and parent nodes arein a set-instance relation, as in the case ofEMBRYO.ORGAN SYSTEM.VISCERAL ORGAN.ALIMENTARY SYSTEM.ORAL REGION.GLAND.PITUITARYagain the pattern CHILD PARENT can be used toform an appropriate phrase ?
for example ?pituitarygland?
in this case.
Phrases thus formed from multi-component sub-paths may again be unique with re-spect to an interval of Theiler Stages, or with respectto lineage within the Theiler Stages, or with respectto a group.4 Improving the Display of Search ResultsCurrently, within the interface to the Gene Expres-sion Database, one can search for an anatomicalstructure of interest within a single tree or across allstages.
A query across all Theiler Stages (TS) resultsin a list of all stages with a matching component, andassociated with each stage is a path specification ter-minating at a matching component name.
This doesnot easily enable the user to locate the specific entitythey are interested in.
If the term is not unique, thenthe results contain all possible anatomical structuresthe query could represent.
For example, a sub-stringmatch on the phrase ?lumen?
results in4 TS12 term(s) matching query ?lumen?
:future spinal cord;neural tube;neural lumenforegut diverticulum;lumenhindgut diverticulum;lumenmidgut;lumen5 TS13 term(s) matching query ?lumen?
:future spinal cord;neural tube;neural lumenforegut diverticulum;lumenhindgut diverticulum;lumenmidgut;lumenforegut-midgut junction;lumen7 TS14 term(s) matching query ?lumen?
:future spinal cord;neural tube;neural lumen (futurespinal canal, spinal canal)hindgut diverticulum;lumenmidgut;lumenforegut-midgut junction;lumenrest of foregut;lumenforegut;pharyngeal region;lumenotic pit;lumen10 TS15 term(s) matching query ?lumen?
:optic recess (lumen of optic stalk)future spinal cord;neural tube;neural lumen (futurespinal canal, spinal canal)hindgut diverticulum;lumenmidgut;lumenpharynx;lumenforegut-midgut junction;lumenhindgut;lumenrest of foregut;lumenforegut;oesophageal region;lumenotic pit;lumenLocating an entity of interest amongst all these treepaths can be an arduous task.
Even if the term isunique, the same entry will be repeated across mul-tiple stages, leading to a visual search problem.An alternative, cleaner way of presenting searchresults is to take the matching component terms asthe primary display key and associate it with a listof stages where its corresponding path specificationoccurs.
For non-unique search queries such as theexample above, this displays asfuture spinal cord; neural tube; neural lumen:Stages 12, 13, 14, 15, ...foregut diverticulum; lumen:Stages 12, 13hindgut diverticulum; lumen:Stages 12, 13, 14, 15, ...midgut;lumen:Stages 12, 13, 14, 15, ...foregut-midgut junction; lumen:Stages 13, 14, 15, ...rest of foregut; lumen:Stages 14, 15, ...otic pit; lumen:Stages 14, 15, ...optic recess:Stages 15, ...pharynx; lumen:Stages 15, ...foregut; oesophageal region; lumen:Stages 15, ...foregut; pharyngeal region; lumen:Stages 14We will, of course, have to verify that this formof display better facilitates users finding the struc-ture(s) and stage(s) of interest to them.5 Increasing PrecisionThe introduction of phrases based on more thanone component term within the Mouse AnatomyNomenclature significantly reduces the number ofirrelevant matches compared to searches based ona single comonent term.To continue our example with CAPSULE fromSection 3, the current situation is that no resultswill be found if ?cortex capsule?
is entered as asearch query.
If the user then simply searches for?capsule?
across all stages, 31 instances will be re-turned.
However, although all sub-paths leading toCORTEX.CAPSULE are returned, the other 87% ofthe results are irrelevant to the user?s intention.
Ifthe multi-component terms are included as uniquelydesignating replacements of existing terms, 100%recall would be maintained, while increasing preci-sion to 100% percent.As there is some systematicity involving parentand child component terms, these terms can be auto-matically generated.
Within the nomenclature thereare three typical patterns.
These can be formalisedas:  the child being a descriptor of the parent e.g.superior vena cava  the child being a part of the parent e.g.
ovarycapsule or capsule of ovary  the child being a member of the parent set e.g.pituitary gland.Of course, recognising which tree path belongs towhich of the patterns above requires biological ex-pertise, but once identified new terms can be gener-ated that are more likely to be used naturally to re-fer to the relevant anatomical components.
Once inplace these new terms can increase recall, with highprecision.6 Increasing RecallWhile the Mouse Anatomical Nomenclature was de-signed to specify every anatomical structure withinthe developing mouse embryo, it does not containall the terms that developmental biologists might useto refer to anatomical entities.
Although some syn-onyms have been explicitly recorded in the nomen-clature, no attempt has been made to be exhaustive.In order to increase the recall of user searchesfor anatomical structures, we have undertaken to in-crease the number and range of synonyms for ele-ments of the nomenclature, by semi-automaticallyFigure 2: Schematic of a Theiler Stage 20 embryoanalysing texts likely to contain terms related to thedevelopmental anatomy of the mouse.To demonstrate the potential value of this ap-proach, we first manually reviewed the short tex-tual description that accompanies each Theiler stagewithin the Mouse Atlas, highlighting the main fea-tures of the stage ?
for example, this text accompa-nies the schematic of TS20 (Figure 6):The handplate (anterior footplate) is nolonger circular but develops angles whichcorrespond to the future digits.
The poste-rior footplate is also distinguishable fromthe lower part of the leg.
It is possibleto see the pigmentation of the pigmentedlayer of the retina through the transparentcornea.
The tongue and brain vesicles areclearly visible.We collected all the noun phrases (NPs) that couldpotentially refer to an anatomical structure andfound, within the  1400 words comprising the de-scriptions, 25 anatomical terms that were not in-cluded in the nomenclature either as componentterms or as synonyms for component terms.
Sincethe same people wrote these textual descriptions asdeveloped the Nomenclature, it shows how difficultit is to record all terms used for anatomical structureswithout systematic effort.To support such a systematic effort, we havebeen applying basic text analysis software toa textbook on developmental anatomy (Kaufmanand Bard, 1999), including a tokenizer, part-of-speech tagger and NP chunker, the latter two fromthe Language Technology Group (LTG) in Edin-burgh (http://www.ltg.ed.ac.uk), as well as addi-tional scripts ?
in order to identify noun phrases,from which we then extract those most likely to re-fer to an anatomical structure.
The latter have thenbeen discussed with our domain expert, Davidson.Because neither the POS tagger nor the chun-ker were specially trained for this type of techni-cal text, their performance was rather weak.
Chun-ker output from the chapter on the heart, produced5547 phrases, of which 2465 were considered to beNPs.
2.4% (i.e.
74) of the 3082 claimed non-NPswere obvious false negatives involving the terms ve-nacava, septum primum/secundum and ductus arte-riosus/venous.
Of the terms classified as NPs, 3.7%(i.e.
92) were found to be false positives.
Most ofthese errors involved words that could be classed asverbs or nouns adjacent to true NPs, regarded as plu-ral nouns but which, in context, were acting as verbs,e.g.
the ostium secundum forms.From the true NPs, we removed pronouns, num-bers, authors names, and plural terms whose singu-lar was also present.
This left 451 NPs, of which82 were found to be exact matches for componentterms and eight, for the synonyms in the Nomencla-ture.
These were also removed, leaving 361 possibleanatomical terms not found in the Nomenclature.We then used a common technique to reduce thisset by only considering NPs headed by or modifiedby a frequent head or modifier from within the set ofcomponent terms (Bodenreider et al, 2002).
Here,frequent meant   3 times.
For example, CAROTID,FIBROUS and ENDOCARDIAL are frequent modi-fiers, while ARTERY, SEPTUM and TISSUE are fre-quent head nouns.
Of the 361 remaining NPs fromthe heart chapter, 115 shared a high frequency headnoun with terms already in the Nomenclature, while105 shared a high frequency modifier with terms inthe Nomenclature.
We considered these 220 NPsprobable anatomical terms, with the remaining 141being possible anatomical terms.
These two sets arenow being reviewed to identify which are synonymsfor anatomical structures identified in the Nomen-clature, which denote structures or groups of struc-tures that have not be recorded in the Nomenclature,which are reduced co-referring NPs, and which arenot anatomical terms after all.7 Future WorkOne result of this work has been to catch bothstructural and terminological inconsistencies in theMouse Anatomical Nomenclature because our ex-tractions allow biologists to easily see differencesbetween one branch and another or between one treeand another in the Nomenclature.With respect to an enhanced interface to the geneexpression data, we are now ready to take the resultsof our analyses and use them to provide a potentiallymore effective way of searching for relevant anatom-ical structures and displaying the results.
We have amethod to mine for additional synonyms for anatom-ical terms, that we will apply to additional texts, ide-ally after re-training the POS-tagger and chunker tobetter reflect the types of texts we are dealing with.Similar Nomenclatures of developmentalanatomy exist for other model organisms, includingdrosophila, zebrafish and human.
These too willbe used to index gene expression data for theseorganisms, eventually supporting cross-speciescomparison of gene expression patterns and furtherunderstanding of development.
So we believe thatdevelopmental anatomy provides a rich domainin which to apply (and learn to extend) NaturalLanguage tools and techniques.AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to thank Dr. JonathanBard for supplying us with electronic versions oftwo chapters from The Anatomical Basis of MouseDevelopment and answering many of our questions.ReferencesOlivier Bodenreider, Thomas Rindflesch, and Anita Bur-gun.
2002.
Unsupervised, corpus-based method forextending a biomedical terminology.
In Proceed-ings of the ACL Workshop on Biomedical Language,Philadelphia PA.Matthew H. Kaufman and Jonathan Bard.
1999.
Theanatomical basis of mouse development.
AcademicPress.
