Developing Guidelines for the Annotation of Anaphors in theChinese TreebankSusan ConverseCIS, University of Pennsylvaniaspc@linc.cis.upenn.eduAbstractThis paper describes the CTB Coreference An-notation Guidelines for annotating pronominalanaphoric expressions in the Penn Chinese Tree-bank.
The goals of the annotation are: to pro-vide training data for learning-based pronounresolution tools, and to provide a \gold" stan-dard to be used in the evaluation of pronounresolution algorithms.
The choices that weremade concerning the coindexing of pronominalanaphors and their antecedents are discussed, asare some questions that arose in trying to cat-egorize those pronominal expressions that didnot refer to specic nominal entities in the text.1 IntroductionThis paper describes the CTB Coreference An-notation Guidelines for annotating the pronom-inal anaphoric expressions in the Penn ChineseTreebank (CTB).
The purpose of the annota-tion is twofold: to provide training data forlearning-based pronoun resolution tools, and toprovide a \gold" standard to use in evaluatingthe outputs of pronoun resolution algorithms.There were two annotation tasks: coindex-ing anaphors with NP antecedents wheneverpossible, and classifying the non-coindexableanaphors into categories.
While the coindexingof pronominal anaphors (including the zero pro-noun) with their antecedents (or postcedents)was fairly straightforward, the categorization ofthose pronominal expressions that did not re-fer to nominal entities in the text raised a somequestions which are discussed below.2 What we are annotatingAnnotations were made to the parsed les of theJune, 2001 corrected release of the Penn Chi-nese Treebank (Xia et al, 2000).
Example 1shows a sample of the annotation, with both(IP (NP#2-TPC (ADJP (JJ ))(NP (NN )))(NP-SBJ (NN ))(VP (VV )(QP-OBJ (CD )(CLP (M )))))(PU )(IP (NP-SBJ (NP#2 (PN )) overt pronoun \their"(NP (NN )(NN )))(VP (ADVP (AD ))(VP (VV ))))(PU ) dropped subject(IP (NP#2-SBJ (-NONE- *pro*)) zero pronoun(VP (IP-CND(NP#EXT-SBJ (-NONE- *pro*)) zero that(VP (ADVP (CS )) does not co-refer(VP (VE )(NP-OBJ (NN )))))(PU )(ADVP (AD ))(ADVP (AD ))(PP-LOC (P )(NP (NN )(NN )))(VP (VV )(NP-OBJ (NN )))))The debt of state-owned enterprises has reached as highas 700 billion yuan, and their product quality is un-even.
If there is no improvement, they will will nd itvery di?cult to participate in the competition in over-seas markets.Example 1: Sample of the annotation.an overt pronoun (\their" in this context),and a zero pronoun \*pro*" referring to a nom-inal entity.
The coindexation (#2) will be dis-cussed in Section 4 and the annotation #EXTon the second *pro* will be discussed below inSection 5.1.3.2.1 Which anaphoric expressionsConsistent with work in English (e.g., (Da-gan and Itai, 1991; Ge et al, 1998; Lappinand Leass, 1994; Morton, 2000)), only third-person pronouns and demonstratives were cho-sen to be annotated.
The pronouns include re-exives (e.g., /\oneself"), reciprocals (e.g.,/\one another"), and possessives.
For thepossessives, the only distinct possessive formsare and (both \its/his/hers/theirs"), whichare annotated.
Ordinary third-person pronounsin possessive constructions are annotated justas they would be in other contexts.Unlike English, however, Chinese is a pro-drop language, and there are zero pronouns inaddition to the overt ones.
For pro drop, theBracketing Guidelines for the CTB (Xue andXia, 2000) specify use of the string \*pro*"(small pro) to explicitly denote a zero pronounin a dropped subject or dropped object positionin a parse tree.Not all empty subject positions in the CTBparses are the result of pro drop, however.
TheBracketing Guidelines specify use of the string\*PRO*" (big PRO) when there is a non-overtsubject in a clause that is the complement ofa control verb, such as /\decide" (subjectcontrol) or /\cause" (object control)1.The Guidelines (Section VI.4) also state that*PRO* is to be used as the non-overt subject in\non-nite clauses," typically clauses that arethemselves sentential subjects.
Big *PRO* isin complementary distribution with lexicalizedconstituents2, while *pro* is not so restricted.The coreference annotation task only dealswith the zero pronouns, or small *pro*, in theCTB parses.
The big *PRO*s are ignored, justas they are in a coreference task in English.2.2 What kind of antecedentsWe specify that anaphors are to be coindexedonly with entities that are represented in thetext by lexicalized noun phrases, or in somecases quantier phrases, QPs.Antecedent entities that must be inferred, orantecedents that are events or propositions, forexample, cannot be coindexed with any overtNP, and are to be labeled with one of the cate-gories described in Section 5.1Note that *pro* and *PRO* do not represent move-ment.
Movement is denoted using other empty categorylabels.
Refer to the Bracketing Guidelines, Section VI:\Null Elements.
"2This is consistent with Government and BindingTheory.
See, for example, (Haegeman, 1994).3 Two tasks: coindexing andcategorizingAs in other languages, pronouns not only areused to refer to explicit nominal phrases in thetext, but also are used discourse deictically andin an existential manner.
In addition, they canrefer to nominal entities that are not explicitlymentioned in the text, but that are availablethrough inference.The approach taken to annotation was there-fore twofold.The rst task was to classify each overt pro-noun, demonstrative, and small pro either as acoindexable anaphor that was coreferential witha noun phrase that explicitly appeared in thetext, or as an anaphor that belonged to one ofa set of categories of non-coindexable anaphors.The second task was to assign indices to thecoindexable anaphors and their antecedents.We will rst describe the questions that arosein the coindexation task, then discuss the cate-gorization of the non-coindexable pronouns.4 Choices in coindexing overtnominal antecedents4.1 Nesting levelWhen NPs are nested, such that an embeddedNP refers to the same entity as the NP thatcontains it, there is a choice between annotat-ing the head NP at the lowest level vs. anno-tating the top NP.
The choice to annotate high,rather than at the head NP, was made for tworeasons.
One was that the head may be auto-matically recovered from the parent.
The sec-ond was that including the modifying materialuniquely identies entities that are dierent butthat have identical lexical heads.In Example 2, the overt NPs that are taggedwith the indices #3 and #4 have identical headNPs, but one is actually a subset of the other.4.2 NP appositionThe only exception to annotating high was ina particular kind of construction with NP ap-position, namely those NP-APP that had thepattern(NP (NP-APP (title/descriptive phrase))(NP (name)))In that case, either the title or full descrip-tive NP alone referred to the same entity de-noted by the name, and the taggers were askedto annotate both the NP-APP and the head NPcontaining the name.In more complex appositive constructions,the NP-APP usually was a list, ending in etc.,of sample members of a set that was denotedby the head noun.
Since the list was exemplary,rather than denitive, NPs containing such listswere to be annotated only at the parent level.That is, the NP-APP constituent was treatedas another modier, rather than as a referent.4.3 NP-Predicate constructionsWhen the antecedent of a pronoun, demonstra-tive, or *pro* is a subject that is followed by thecopula or and a predicate NP (NP-PRD)with denite reference, then the annotators wereinstructed to put the entity's index not only onthe subject, but also the NP-PRD.
Example 3illustrates this.Analogous to this, there are verbs that estab-lish identity between their subjects and objects,usually after a change of state.
These verbs arewords like \become" ( ) or \establish" ( ).When subjects in these constructions were an-tecedents, the annotators were asked to indexany NP-OBJ with denite reference as well.Example 4 shows one such instance with theverb /\become.
"4.4 Quantier phrasesAlthough syntactically, quantier phrases(QPs) occur in the same contexts as NPs inthe CTB, they are not necessarily equivalentin their semantic usage.
While an NP denotesan entity, a QP usually denotes the value of aquantiable property or attribute of an entity,rather than the entity itself.Note that in Example 2 the QP-OBJ \109.82billion US$" in the rst clause was not anno-tated.
Entity #3 is \the value of imports andexports", and the extent of that value is 109.82billion at one particular time.
But the measuredoes not uniquely denote the entity.On the other hand, quantier phrases maysometimes be abbreviated expressions denotinga particular set of entities, in which case the QPconstituent is annotated as if it were an NP.Example 5 illustrates such a case.
TheQP#1-SBJ is shorthand for /\70 en-terprises".
(IP(NP#3-SBJ(CP(WHNP-1 (-NONE- *OP*))(IP (NP#2-SBJ (-NONE- *pro*))(VP (NP-TMP (NT )) last year(VP (VV ) realize(NP-OBJ (-NONE- *T*-1))))))(NP (NN ) imports+exports(NN ))) total value(VP (VV ) reach(QP-OBJ (CD ) 109.82 B(CLP (M ))))) US$(PU )(IP(NP-SBJ(CP (WHNP-2 (-NONE- *OP*))(CP (IP (NP#3-SBJ (-NONE- *pro*))(VP (VV ) stand(NP#4-OBJ (NP (DP (DT ))(NP (NN )))entire country(NP (NN )(NN )))imports+exportstotal value(NP-EXT (-NONE- *T*-2))))(DEC )))(NP (NN ))) proportion(VP (VRD (VV )(VV )) rise up to(QP-OBJ (CD ))))) 39%NP#2 is /\foreign-owned enterprises"The value of imports and exports that they realizedlast year reached 109.82 billion US$.
The proportionthat this represented in the value of imports and ex-ports of the entire country rose to 39%.Example 2: Annotating parent instead of headNP.
(IP (NP#2-PN-SBJ (NR ))(VP (VC )(NP#2-PRD (NP-PN (NR ))(QP (OD ))(ADJP (JJ ))(NP (NN ))))Chongming is China's third largest islandExample 3: NP-PRD with denite reference.5 Categorizing non-coindexableanaphorsAs mentioned above, not all pronominal expres-sions are coreferential with overt NP/QP con-stituents that denote specic nominal entities.
(IP(NP#2-SBJ (-NONE- *pro*))(VP(VV )(NP#2-OBJ (DNP(NP (NP-PN (NR ))(NP (NN )(NN )))(DEG ))(ADJP (JJ ))(NP (NN )))))NP#2 is /\large-scale enter-prises with production value exceeding 100 M yuan"They have become the backbone of Wuxi Munici-pality's economic developmentExample 4: Predicative NP-OBJ.
(IP (NP-SBJ (ADJP (JJ ))(NP (NN )))(VP (QP-PRD (CD )(CLP (M )))))(PU )(IP (NP#EXT-SBJ (-NONE- *pro*))(VP (ADVP (AD ))(VP (VE )(IP-OBJ(QP#1-SBJ (CD )(CLP (M )))(VP (VV )(NP-OBJ(DNP(NP#1 (PN ))(DEG ))(NP (NN ))))))))Enterprises entering the region number 122, and alreadythere are seventy that have their own products.Example 5: An annotated quantier phrase andan existential subject.An attempt was made to classify these \non-coindexable" anaphors.We therefore dened a set of categories withwhich to label those anaphors that could not becoindexed.
Table 1 provides a brief summaryof the categories.
A discussion of each categoryfollows.5.1 The straightforward cases5.1.1 AMB: ambiguousThis category is intended to identify cases inwhich a particular anaphor, whether an overtlexical item or a zero pronoun, could have morethan one possible interpretation, depending onthe understanding of the reader.
The ambigu-ity may be between two or more possible NPantecedents in the text for example, or it maybe between an entity denoted by an NP in thetext and an entity that is not lexicalized but canbe inferred.5.1.2 DD: discourse deicticPronouns are often used to refer to events orpropositions as well as to entities.
When ananaphor refers to an event or proposition orto the meaning of an entire span of text, thenit is labeled DD, for discourse deictic.
Notethat in addition to the demonstratives /\this"and /\this" that one would expect to be usedfor this purpose, there were situations in which*pro* was tagged with this label as well.5.1.3 EXT: existentialAnalogous to pleonastic constructions inEnglish, the verbs ( ) /\(not)have" and/\without" in Chinese can be used in an\existential" manner.
When they are, theyhave the part-of-speech tag VE3.
The labelEXT is used to tag *pro* when it is thesubject of one of these verbs (and the verb hasthe reading \there are" or \there are no" ).Examples 1 and 5 contain *pro*'s annotated inthis way.5.1.4 INFR: inferrableThe coindexing task is very restricted in thatthe only antecedents that can be assigned in-dices are NP constituents in the same doc-ument that denote the same entity that theanaphor refers to.
The label INFR is to beused when the anaphor refers to an entity thatis not itself explicitly lexicalized in the text, butcan be inferred from the context or using real-world knowledge.
The entity must be a partic-ular nominal entity, not a generic \anyperson"or \anything" with arbitrary reading (see Sec-tion 5.2, below).For example, the pronoun /\they" mightbe used to refer to the people in charge of someplace/institution, but the only overt NP in thetext is the place/institution itself.
The real an-tecedent of the pronoun, a reference to the peo-ple themselves, is not overtly mentioned in thetext, so the anaphor would be labeled INFR.3VE denotes a verb in an existential construction.Refer to the CTB Bracketing Guidelines, Section IV.4.1.Table 1: Categories for pronouns that do nothave a specic or clear coreferentAMB ambiguous: for anaphors thatcan have more than one possibleantecedent, depending on the in-terpretation of the textDD discourse deictic: the pronom-inal expression refers to an event,situation, or proposition ratherthan to a nominal entityEXT existential: a *pro* that is thesubject of an existential (VE)or orINFR inferrable: a pronoun or *pro*that refers to a particular nom-inal entity that is not explicitlylexicalized in the text, but thatcan be inferred from the textARB arbitrary: a *pro* that does notrefer to a specic entity that canbe inferred from or is lexicalizedin the text, but instead takes an\arbitrary" reading5.2 More subtle cases of *pro*5.2.1 The choice of the category ARBThe above categories describe the manifesta-tions of discourse phenomena that are familiarto English speakers as well as to Chinese speak-ers.
The nal category applies only to small*pro*, and is more specic to the phenomenaobserved in the parses in CTB-I.In the rst version of the guidelines, therewere ve categories: the four just mentioned,plus an \ANONymous" category that wasmeant to account for arbitrary dropped sub-jects in titles or slogans (analogous to the useof \one" in English).
During the initial adjudi-cation meetings, however, it became clear thatthere were occurrences of small *pro* that didnot fall neatly into any of the ve proposed cat-egories.Many of these *pro*'s appeared in subordi-nate constructions that functioned like Englishinnitives and gerundive clauses, and they fre-quently could not be replaced by any overt NP,even a pronoun.
For these reasons, a sixth cat-egory, labeled UNTNS for untensed, was addedto the guidelines in an attempt to capture ameaningful category of dropped subjects.Unfortunately, adding this category causedmore problems than it solved.
First, it wastoo hard to clearly dene.
The reason it wasdi?cult to dene is the same reason that thequestion of a nite vs. non-nite distinction inChinese is so problematic: there is no reliablediagnostic of (non-)niteness in Chinese (and,some would argue, no non-nite/nite distinc-tion at all (Hu et al, 2001)).In the absence of diagnostic tests, the Guide-lines described the category using sample syn-tactic structures.
Although there are a few syn-tactic structures such as sentence-initial pur-pose clauses that appear to be \prototypical"untensed constructions, there are many morestructures that require more subjective judge-ments.Second, even if a diagnostic test for UNTNSwere available, there were two basic di?cultieswith adding the UNTNS category.
The rstproblem was that just as big PRO can be coin-dexed (e.g., in subject or object control con-texts), in a similar way the *pro* in the \un-tensed" syntactic structures could sometimes becoindexed with an NP.
This presented a prob-lem with consistently annotating such a *pro*:should it be coindexed or marked UNTNS?The second di?culty with just addingUNTNS to the coreference Guidelines was thatboth of the categories ANON and UNTNS con-tained *pro*'s with arbitrary reference, andthere was no clean way to dierentiate them.
Adiagnostic that an ANON *pro* could be sub-stituted by an overt NP was not su?cient.As a result of these two overlaps (UNTNSthat could be coindexed, and arbitrary refer-ences in both ANON and UNTNS), there wasreliably poor inter-annotator agreement in an-notating *pro*'s belonging to these categories.To simplify the categorization, therefore, thedecision was made on the one hand to replacethe ANON and the UNTNS categories with thesingle category ARB (for \arbitrary"), and onthe other hand to instruct the annotators toalways coindex a *pro* when possible.
Thatis, any *pro* that can be coindexed, whetheror not it appears in an \innitival" or \gerun-dive" construction, and whether or not it canbe replaced by an overt NP, should be coin-dexed.
Only those *pro*'s that have arbitraryreadings, with no possible specic or inferrable(IP(PP (P ) according to(IP (NP#ARB-SBJ (-NONE- *pro*))(VP (VV )))) understand(PU )(NP-SBJ (DNP (NP (DP (DT ) this(CLP (M ))) M(NP (NN ))) visit(DEG )) DE(NP (NN ))) goal(VP(VC ) is(PP-PRD(P ) in order to(IP (NP#ARB-SBJ (-NONE- *pro*))(VP(VP (VV ) strengthen(NP-OBJ(ADJP (JJ )) both sides(NP (NN ) econ.+trade(NN )))) cooperation(PU )(VP (VV ) expand... etc.It is understood that the purpose of this visit is tostrengthen bilateral economic and trade cooperation andto expand ...Example 6: Arbitrary reference and zerosubject of untensed clause.antecedent, will be marked ARB.With respect to training a tool to do auto-matic coreference resolution of *pro* this an-notation decision will overgenerate coindexed*pro*'s in the data, since some of them prob-ably should actually be big *PRO*s. Againstthat negative are the pluses of easier choicesfor the annotators and better inter-annotatoragreement.5.2.2 Some examplesThere are cases in which a small *pro* does notrefer to a single, specic entity, but could bereplaced by an overt, generic expression, suchas /"someone" or /"we" in the generalsense.
Example 6 illustrates one such situationin the complement of a sentence-initial PP.
Thesame example illustrates another use of ARB ina clause that could be considered \innitival".An example of a *pro* in an untensed con-struction that can be coindexed is shown inExample 7.
It is usually possible to coindexa *pro* in these clause-initial modiers at thesentence level with the matrix subject.
The(IP (PP-PRP(P ) in order to(IP (NP#4-SBJ (-NONE- *pro*)) (former UNTNS)(VP (VV ) standardize(NP-OBJ (NN ) construction(NN ))) behavior(PU )(NP#4-SBJ (NN ) new region(NN )) management committee(VP (VV )(AS ) announced...In order to standardize the construction procedures, themanagement committee of the new region announced ...Example 7: Sentence-initial purpose clause.
(IP (IP-SBJ (NP#ARB-SBJ (-NONE- *pro*))(VP (VV )(NP-OBJ (NN ))))(VP (VV )(NP-OBJ (NN ))))(PU )(IP (NP-SBJ (QP (CD ))(NP (NN )(NN )))(VP (VV )(NP-OBJ (NP (NN )(NN )(NN ))(ADJP (JJ ))(NP (NN )))))The use of foreign capital is showing a trend toward di-versication, and a large number of enterprises in thespecial zone are entering the international capital mar-ket for direct nancing.Example 8: An untensed IP-SBJ.most common clauses with dropped subjects inthis position are sentence-initial purpose clauseswith /\in order to" and adverbial IPs withverbs like /\utilize".Example 8 illustrates a *pro* subject of anIP that is itself the matrix subject.Pre-verbal modier prepositional phraseswith IP complements, like the sentence-leveladverbials, sometimes act like innitives andsometimes like gerunds.
Some have *pro* sub-jects that can be coindexed, often with the ma-trix subject (such as benefactive prepositionalphrases headed by /\for").
Others, such asmanner PPs with /\using" appear less likelyto be coindexable.6 Annotation process/statusInitially 40 les were annotated by two nativespeakers of Mandarin, both from Taipei, Tai-wan.
One is a trained linguist, the other isa computer science graduate student who hastaken a syntax course.
In the process of an-notating and adjudicating, the Guidelines wererevised, to broaden the denition of INFR froma more narrow interpretation and to add theUNTNS category and distinguish it from theANON category.Those Guidelines were used by two annota-tors to independently annotate all the remain-ing les in CTB-I for coindexation only.
The an-notators are two native speakers who are trainedlinguists.
One is from the Peoples Republic ofChina, the other is the linguist from Taiwan whodid the rst 40 les.The Guidelines were again recently revisedto document the replacement of ANON andUNTNS by ARB and the choice to coindexwhenever possible.
These changes are currentlybeing integrated into \gold" les as the les thatalready have been coindexed are adjudicated.A third native speaker from the PRC is inde-pendently annotating a portion of CTB-I usingthis last revision of the Guidelines, and her an-notations will be compared to the \gold" les tocalculate some inter-annotator agreement num-bers for this last version of the Guidelines.7 Future workThe CTB-I is a rather limited corpus, both insize (100K words) and in linguistic structures.It is very declarative and concrete, and thus therange of gurative language and \messy" lin-guistic phenomena is relatively restricted.
Forexample, there were no examples of object dropin the CTB-I, although there are examples inCTB-II.The expectation is that when a more balancedcorpus is tagged, the Guidelines will need to berened with more specic instructions concern-ing the handling of such things as more complexplural antecedents, quoted speech, metonymy,and other gurative expressions.8 AcknowledgementsMany thanks to Fu-dong Chiou, Nianwen Xue,Szu-ting Yi, Jennifer Chia, Betsy Klipple, andMartha Palmer.ReferencesIdo Dagan and Alon Itai, 1991.
A Statisti-cal Filter for Resolving Pronoun References,pages 125{135.
Elsevier Science Publishers.Niyu Ge, John Hale, and Eugene Charniak.1998.
A statistical approach to anaphora res-olution.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Workshopon Very Large Corpora, pages 161{170, Uni-versity of Montreal, August.Liliane Haegeman.
1994.
Introduction to Gov-ernment & Binding Theory.
Blackwell, Cam-bridge, MA, 2nd edition.Jianhua Hu, Haihua Pan, and Liejiong Xu.2001.
Is there a nite vs. nonnite distinc-tion in Chinese?
Linguistics, 39:1117{1148.Shalom Lappin and Herbert Leass.
1994.
Analgorithm for pronominal anaphora resolu-tion.
Computational Linguistics, 20(4):535{561.
Lappin and Leass note to test.Thomas S. Morton.
2000.
Coreference for nlpapplications.
In Proceedings of the 38th An-nual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, pages 173{180, HongKong, October.Fei Xia, Martha Palmer, Nianwen Xue,Mary Ellen Okurowski, John Kovarik, Fu-Dong Chiou, Shizhe Huang, Tony Kroch,and Mitch Marcus.
2000.
Developing guide-lines and ensuring consistency for Chi-nese text annotation.
In Proceedings of theSecond International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC-2000), Athens, Greece, May 30.Nianwen Xue and Fei Xia.
2000.
TheBracketing Guidelines for the Penn ChineseTreebank Project.
Number 00-08.
Techni-cal Report, Institute for Research in Cog-nitive Science, University of Pennsylvania.http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/ctb/.
