A Comprehensive NLP System for Modern Standard Arabic andModern HebrewMorphological analysis, lemmatization, vocalization, disambiguation and text-to-speechDror KamirMelingo Ltd.16 Totseret Haaretz st.Tel-Aviv, Israeldrork@melingo.comNaama SoreqMelingo Ltd.16 Totseret Haaretz st.Tel-Aviv, Israelnaamas@melingo.comYoni NeemanMelingo Ltd.16 Totseret Haaretz st.Tel-Aviv, Israelyonin@melingo.comAbstractThis paper presents a comprehensive NLP sys-tem by Melingo that has been recently developedfor Arabic, based on MorfixTM ?
an operationalformerly developed highly successful comprehen-sive Hebrew NLP system.The system discussed includes modules formorphological analysis, context sensitive lemmati-zation, vocalization, text-to-phoneme conversion,and syntactic-analysis-based prosody (intonation)model.
It is employed in applications such as fulltext search, information retrieval, text categoriza-tion, textual data mining, online contextual dic-tionaries, filtering, and text-to-speech applicationsin the fields of telephony and accessibility andcould serve as a handy accessory for non-fluentArabic or Hebrew speakers.Modern Hebrew and Modern Standard Arabicshare some unique Semitic linguistic characteris-tics.
Yet up to now, the two languages have beenhandled separately in Natural Language Processingcircles, both on the academic and on the applica-tive levels.
This paper reviews the major similari-ties and the minor dissimilarities between ModernHebrew and Modern Standard Arabic from theNLP standpoint, and emphasizes the benefit of de-veloping and maintaining a unified system for bothlanguages.1 Introduction1.1 The common Semitic basis from an NLPstandpointModern Standard Arabic (MSA) and ModernHebrew (MH) share the basic Semitic traits: richmorphology, based on consonantal roots (Ji?r /?ore?
)1, which depends on vowel changes and insome cases consonantal insertions and deletions tocreate inflections and derivations.2For example, in MSA: the consonantal root/ktb/ combined with the vocalic pattern CaCaCaderives the verb kataba ?to write?.
This derivationis further inflected into forms that indicate seman-tic features, such as number, gender, tense etc.
:katab-tu ?I wrote?, katab-ta ?you (sing.
masc.
)wrote?, katab-ti ?you (sing.
fem.)
wrote, ?a-ktubu?I write/will write?, etc.Similarly in MH: the consonantal root /ktv/combined with the vocalic pattern CaCaC derivesthe verb katav ?to write?, and its inflections are:katav-ti ?I wrote?, katav-ta ?you (sing.
masc.
)1 A remark about the notation: Phonetic transcriptions alwaysappear in Italics, and follow the IPA convention, except thefollowing: ?
?
glottal stop, ?
?
voiced pharyngeal fricative(?Ayn), ?
?
velarized d, ?
?
velarized s. Orthographictransliterations appear in curly brackets.
Bound morphemes(affixes, clitics, consonantal roots) are written between twoslashes.
Arabic and Hebrew linguistic terms are written inphonetic spelling beginning with a capital letter.
The Arabicterm comes first.2 For a review on the different approaches to Semitic inflec-tions see Beesley (2001), p.
2.wrote?, katav-t ?you (sing.
fem.)
wrote?, e-xtov ?Iwill write?
etc.In fact, morphological similarity extends muchfurther than this general observation, and includesvery specific similarities in terms of the NLP sys-tems, such as usage of nominal forms to marktenses and moods of verbs; usage of pronominalenclitics to convey direct objects, and usage ofproclitics to convey some prepositions.
Moreover,the inflectional patterns and clitics are quite similarin form in most cases.
Both languages exhibit con-struct formation (I?a:fa / Smixut), which is similarin its structure and in its role.
The suffix markingfeminine gender is also similar, and similarity goesas far as peculiarities in the numbering system,where the female gender suffix marks the mascu-line.
Some of these phenomena will be demon-strated below.1.2 Lemmatization of Semitic LanguagesA consistent definition of lemma is crucial fora data retrieval system.
A lemma can be said to bethe equivalent to a lexical entry: the basic gram-matical unit of natural language that is semanti-cally closed.
In applications such as searchengines, usually it is the lemma that is sought,while additional information including tense, num-ber, and person are dispensable.In MSA and MH a lemma is actually thecommon denominator of a set of forms (hundredsor thousands of forms in each set) that share thesame meaning and some morphological and syn-tactic features.
Thus, in MSA, the forms: ?awla:d,walada:ni, despite their remarkable difference inappearance, share the same lemma WALAD ?a boy?.This is even more noticeable in verbs, where formslike kataba, yaktubu, kutiba, yuktabu, kita:ba andmany more are all part of the same lemma:KATABA ?to write?.The rather large number of inflections andcomplex forms (forms that include clitics, see be-low 1.5) possible for each lemma results in a hightotal number of forms, which, in fact, is estimatedto be the same for both languages: around 70 mil-lion3.
The mapping of these forms into lemmas isinconclusive (See Dichy (2001), p. 24).
Hence thequestion rises: what should be defined as lemma inMSA and MH.3 For Arabic - see Beesley (2001), p. 7 For Hebrew - our ownsources.The fact that MSA and MH morphology isroot-based might promote the notion of identifyingthe lemma with the root.
But this solution is notsatisfactory: in most cases there is indeed a dia-chronic relation in meaning among words andforms of the same consonantal root.
However, se-mantic shifts which occur over the years rule outthis method in synchronic analysis.
Moreover,some diachronic processes result in totally coinci-dental ?sharing?
of a root by two or more com-pletely different semantic domains.
For example,in MSA, the words fajr ?dawn?
and infija:r ?explo-sion?
share the same root /fjr/ (the latter might haveoriginally been a metaphor).
Similarly, in MH theverbs pasal ?to ban, disqualify?
and pisel ?to sculp-ture?
share the same root /psl/ (the former is an oldloan from Aramaic).In Morfix, as described below (2.1), a lemmais defined not as the root, but as the manifestationof this root, most commonly as the lesser markedform of a noun, adjective or verb.
There is no es-cape from some arbitrariness in the implementationof this definition, due to the fine line between in-flectional morphology and derivational morphol-ogy.
However, Morfix generally follows thetradition set by dictionaries, especially bilingualdictionaries.
Thus, for example, difference in partof speech entails different lemmas, even if themorphological process is partially predictable.Similarly each verb pattern (Wazn / Binyan) istreated as a different lemma.Even so, the roots should not be overlooked, asthey are a good basis for forming groups of lem-mas; in other words, the root can often serve as a?super-lemma?, joining together several lemmas,provided they all share a semantic field.1.3 The Issue of Nominal Inflections of VerbsThe inconclusive selection of lemmas in MSAand MH can be demonstrated by looking into aninteresting phenomenon: the nominal inflections ofverbs (roughly parallel to the Latin participle, seebelow).
Since this issue is a good example both fora characteristic of Semitic NLP and for the simi-larities between MSA and MH, it is worthwhile tofurther elaborate on it.Both MSA and MH use the nominal inflectionsof verbs to convey tenses, moods and aspects.These inflections are derived directly from the verbaccording to strict rules, and their forms are pre-dictable in most cases.
Nonetheless, grammati-cally, these forms behave as nouns or adjectives.This means that they bear case marking in MSA,nominal marking for number and gender (in bothlanguages) and they can be definite or indefinite(in both languages).
Moreover, these inflectionsoften serve as nouns or adjectives in their ownright.
This, in fact, causes the crucial problem fordata retrieval, since the system has to determinewhether the user refers to the noun/adjective orrather to the verb for which it serves as inflection.Nominal inflections of verbs exist in non-Semitic languages as well; in most European lan-guages participles and infinitives have nominalfeatures.
However, two Semitic traits make thisphenomenon more challenging in our case ?
therich morphology which creates a large set of in-flections for each base form (i.e.
the verb is in-flected to create nominal forms and then each formis inflected again for case, gender and number).Furthermore, Semitic languages allow nominalclauses, namely verbless sentences, which increaseambiguity.
For example, in English it is easy torecognize the form ?drunk?
in ?he has drunk?
asrelated to the lemma DRINK (V) (and not as an ad-jective).
This is done by spotting the auxiliary ?has?which precedes this form.
However in MH, theclause axi ?omer could mean ?my brother is aguard?
or ?my brother guards/is guarding?.
Thesyntactical cues for the final decision are subtleand elusive.
Similarly in MSA: axi ka:tibun couldmean ?my brother is writing?
or ?my brother is awriter?.1.4 OrthographyFrom the viewpoint of NLP, especially com-mercially applicable NLP, it is important to notethat the writing systems of both MSA and MH fol-low the same conventions, in which most vowelsare not marked.
Therefore, in MSA the form yak-tubu ?he writes/will write?
is written {yktb}.
Simi-larly in MH, the form yilmad ?he will learn?
iswritten {ylmd}.
Both languages have a supplemen-tary marking system for vocalization (writtenabove, under and beside the text), but it is not usedin the overwhelming majority of texts.
In both lan-guages, when vowels do appear as letters, letters ofconsonantal origin are used, consequently turningthese letters ambiguous (between their consonantaland vocalic readings).It is easy to see the additional difficulty thatthis writing convention presents for NLP.
Thestring {yktb} in MSA can be interpreted as yak-tubu (future tense), yaktuba (subjunctive), yaktub(jussive), yuktabu (future tense passive) and evenyuktibu ?he dictates/will dictate?
a form that is con-sidered by Morfix to be a different lemma alto-gether (see above 1.2).
Furthermore, ambiguity canoccur between totally unrelated words, as will beshown in section 1.7.
A trained MSA reader candistinguish between these forms by using contex-tual cues (both syntactic and semantic).
A similarcontextual sensitivity must be programmed into theNLP system in order to meet this challenge.Each language also has some orthographic pe-culiarities of its own.
The most striking in MH isthe multiple spelling conventions that are used si-multaneously.
The classical convention has beenreplaced in most texts with some kind of spellingsystem that partially indicates vowels, and thusreduces ambiguities.
An NLP system has to takeinto account the various spelling systems and thefact that the classic convention is still occasionallyused.
Thus, each word often has more than onespelling.
For example: the word shi?ur ?a lesson?can be written {?
?wr} or {?y?wr}.
The word kiven?to direct?
can be written {kwn} or {kywwn}, theformer is the classical spelling (Ktiv Xaser) whilethe later is the standard semi-vocalized system(Ktiv Male), but a some non-standard spellings canalso appear: {kywn}, {kwwn}.MSA spelling is much more standardized andfollows classic conventions.
Nonetheless, some ofthese conventions may seem confusing at firstsight.
The Hamza sign, which represents the glottalstop phoneme, can be written in 5 different ways,depending on its phonological environment.
There-fore, any change in vowels (very regular a phe-nomenon in MSA inflectional paradigms) results ina different shape of Hamza.
This occurs even whenthe vowels themselves are not marked.
Moreover ?there is often more than one shape possible perform, without any mandatory convention.
Onecould argue that all Hamza shapes should be en-coded as one for our purposes.
This may solvesome problems, but then again it would deny us ofcrucial information about the vowels in the word.Since the Hamza changes according to vowelsaround it, it is a good cue for retrieving the vocali-zation of the word, and to reduce ambiguity.1.5 Clitics and Complex FormsThe phenomenon which will be described inthis section is related both to the morphologicalstructure of MSA and MH, and to the orthographi-cal conventions shared by these languages.
Bothlanguages use a diverse system of clitics4 that areappended to the inflectional forms, creating com-plex forms and further complications in properlemmatization and data retrieval.For example, in MSA, the form: ?awla:dun?boys (nom.
)?, a part of the lemma WALAD ?boy?,can take the genitive pronominal enclitic /-ha/ ?her?and create the complex form: ?awla:d-u-ha ?boys-nom.-her (=her boys)?.
This complex form isorthographically represented as follows:{?wladha}.
Similarly in Hebrew, the form yeladim?children?
(of the lemma YELED ?child?
), combinedwith the genitive pronominal enclitic /-ha/ ?her?,yields the complex form yelade-ha ?children-her(=her children)?.
The orthographical representationis: {yldyh}.Enclitics usually denote genitive pronouns fornouns (as demonstrated above) and accusative pro-nouns for verbs.
For example, in MSA, ?akaltu-hu?I ate it?
{?klth}, or in MH axalti-v ?I ate it?{?kltyw}.
It is easy to see how this phenomenon,especially the orthographic convention which con-joins these enclitics to the basic form, may createconfusion in lemmatizing and data retrieval.
How-ever, the nature of clitics which limits their posi-tion and possible combinations helps to locatethem and trace the basic form from which thecomplex one was created.There are also several proclitics denotingprepositions and other particles, attached to thepreceding form by orthographic convention.
Themost common are the conjunctions /w, f/, theprepositions /b, l, k/ and the definite article /al/ inMSA, and the conjunction /w/, the prepositions /b,k, l, m/ (often referred to as Otiyot Baxlam), therelative pronoun /?/ and the definite article /h/ inMH.
Therefore, in MSA, the phrase: wa-li-l-?wla:di ?and to the boys?
will have the followingorthographical representation: {wll?wlad}.
In MHthe phrase ve-la-yeladim ?and to the children?
willbe represented orthographically as: {wlyldym}.Once again, when scanning a written text, these4 The term ?clitics?
is employed here as the closest term whichcan describe this phenomenon without committing to anylinguistic theory.proclitics must be taken into account in the lemma-tization process.1.6 SyntaxThe syntactic structure of MSA and MH isvery similar.
In fact, the list of major syntacticrules is almost identical, though the actual applica-tion of these rules may differ between the lan-guages.A good demonstration of that is the agreementrule.
Both languages demand a strict noun-adjective-verb agreement.
The agreement includesfeatures such as number, gender, definiteness andin MSA also case marking (in noun-adjectiveagreement).
The MH agreement rule is morestraightforward than the MSA one.
For example:ha-yeladim ha-gdolim halxu ?the-child-pl.
the-big-pl.
go-past-pl.
(=The big children went).
Note thatall elements in the sentence are marked as plural,and the noun and the adjective also agree in defi-niteness.The case of MSA is slightly different.
MSAhas incomplete agreement in verb-subject sen-tences, which are the vast majority.
In this case theagreement of the verb will only be in gender butnot in number, e.g.
?ahaba l-?awla:du ?go-past-masc.-sing.
boy-pl.
(=The boys went)?.
MSA alsodistinguishes between human plural forms andnon-human plural forms, i.e.
if the plural formdoes not have a human referent, the verb or theadjective will be marked as feminine rather thanplural, e.g.
?ahabat el-kila:bu l-kabi:ratu ?go-past-fem.-sing.
the-dog-masc.-pl.
the-big-fem.-sing.
(=The big dogs went)?.The example of the agreement rule demon-strates both the similarities and the differences be-tween MSA and MH.
Furthermore, it demonstrateshow minor are the differences as far as our pur-poses go.
As long as the agreement rule is takeninto account, its actual implementation has hardlyany consequences in the level of the system.
Thisexample also demonstrates a very useful cue toreduce ambiguity among forms.
This cue is proba-blyused intuitively by trained readers of MSA andMH, and encoding it into the Morfix NLP systemturns out quite useful.1.7 AmbiguityPerhaps the major challenge for NLP analysisin MSA and MH is overcoming the ambiguity offorms.
In this respect, Morfix has to imitate therather sophisticated reading of a trained MSA orMH speaker, who continuously disambiguatesword tokens while reading.The reason for ambiguity can be depicted inthree main factors:i.
The large amount of morphological forms,which are sometimes homographic.For example, both in MSA and MH the verbialinflection of the imperfect for the singular isthe same for 2nd person masculine and 3rd per-son feminine: MSA ?
taktubu, MH ?
tixtov.ii.
The possibility of creating complex forms byconjoining clitics, which raises the possibilityof coincidental identity.For example, in MSA: ka-ma:l ?as money?,kama:l ?perfection, Kamal (proper name)?
!{kmal}.
Similarly in MH: ha-naxa ?the-resting-fem.
?, hanaxa ?an assumption, a dis-count?
!
{hn?h}.iii.
The orthographical conventions, such as thelack of vowel marking and various spelling al-ternatives.For example, in MSA: muda:fi?
?defender?,mada:fi?
?cannons?
!
{mdaf?
}, and in MHbaneha ?her sons?
bniya ?building?
!
{bnyh}.In many cases ambiguity is the result of thecombination of two factors or even all three.
Thismakes ambiguity rate rather high, and its resolutionsuch a major component of NLP mechanism.Disambiguation is based on syntactical struc-tures and semantic cues that can be retrieved fromthe text, which might resemble the way a humanreader copes with these problems.
It is the objec-tive of NLP systems dealing with MSA an MH toformalize these cues.2 A Description of the Morfix Architec-ture and its Application2.1 ArchitectureOn one hand, as can be expected in the light ofthe similarities described above, a single NLP sys-tem is applicable for both MSA and MH, includingcode infrastructure, database structures, and meth-odology.
On the other hand, in adapting a previ-ously existing MH system to MSA some minoradaptations are nonetheless needed.Morfix is comprised of two lexical databases: alemma database and an idiom/collocation informa-tion database, and two rule databases: a morpho-logical rule database and a syntactical ruledatabase.The lemma database contains all crucial in-formation about each lemma, including lexical fea-tures such as part of speech, gender, number,meaning, root, verb pattern (Wazn / Binyan) etc.Most of these features are common to MH andMSA, and have the same morphological implica-tions.
All inflectional forms of a lemma are gener-ated by applying algorithms that process thesefeatures.
These algorithms make use of the mor-phological rule database.
These rules generateforms by superimposing verb patterns and morpho-phonemic principles.
Exceptions are allowed, i.e.the lexicographer may edit a specific form.
Theexception mechanism is much less used in MSAthan in MH, due to the higher consistency of MSAinflections (but see below 2.2 for the treatment ofthe MSA ?Broken Plural?
in Morfix).
By the con-clusion of this inflection procedure, the entire 70million forms inventory is accessible.The information for the lemma and collocationdatabases is gathered by two techniques.
In thefirst phase words are extracted from several dic-tionaries5, while the second phase involvesanalyzing text corpora, mainly through Internetsources, using the dictionary based lexicon.
Anyunanalyzed word (usually new loan words,neologisms and new conventions of usage), as wellas collocations found in the corpora, are the basisfor enriching the lexicon.
The information for themorphological and syntactical databases is re-trieved both from conventional grammar text-books6 and from additional linguistic analysis ofthe corpora.By contrast, derivational morphology is by andlarge not algorithmic or rule derived.
That is,nouns, adjectives and verbs of different patternsthat share the same root are each entered as sepa-rate lemmas.
As mentioned above (1.2), there is afine line between inflectional morphology andderivational morphological.
For example, the deci-sion whether to create a new lemma for a nominal5 For MSA: Wehr (1973), Al-Munjid (1992), Ayalon and Shi-nar (1947) and others; for MH: Even Shoshan (1991), Al-calay (1990) and others.6 For MSA: Wright (1896), Holes (1995); for MH: Glinert(1989).inflection of verb is left to the lexicographer.
Crite-ria are usually morphological, since semantic crite-ria are often too vague.
For example, the fact thatthe form ka:tib has two possible plural form:ka:tibuna ?writing masc.
pl.?
and kutta:b ?writers?indicates that the form should have a lemma of itsown, on top of being associated with the verblemma.While the lemma in Morfix is defined as an in-flectional lemma, derivational morphology is alsoaccounted for in the database in a mechanismcalled word families, namely the root-basedlemma grouping described above (1.2), whosemembers also share a semantic field.
For example,infija:r ?explosion?
and mufajjira:t ?explosives?would be members of the same family, whereasfajr ?dawn?
would not belong to this family.The idiom/collocation database stores informa-tion about co-occurrence of words.
Idioms arelexicalized word combinations (e.g.
in MSA bunyata?tia ?infrastructure?, or in MH bet sefer ?aschool?
), while collocations are combinations ofwords that do not have specific meanings whencombined, yet often appear together in texts (e.g.in MSA waqqa?a {wq?}
?ala l-ittifa:q ?to sign theagreement?
as opposed to waqa?a {wq?}
fi tta:ri:x?occured on the date?
or in MH hamtana {hmtnh}ba-tor ?to wait on line?
as opposed to kabalat ha-matana {hmtnh}?accepting the gift?
).Finally, the syntactical rule database is com-prised of rules such as agreement rules and con-struct formation rules (I?a:fa / Smixut).
Some rulesare not absolute, but rather reflect statistical infor-mation about distribution of syntactical structuresin the language.
These rules play a major role inthe context analysis module.Each morphological analysis has a vocalizationpattern (Ta?ki:l / Nikud).
When analyzing wordtokens in context, Morfix produces a best bet forthe vocalized text.Finally, for text-to-speech purposes, a string ofphonemes is created, based on the vocalizationpatterns.
Stress markings are added per word, and aprosody pattern is applied, based on syntacticalanalysis at the clause level.
Prosody patterns areexpressed as duration and pitch values per pho-neme.2.2 Adaptation of the technology to ArabicMost of the elements of Morfix are common toMSA and MH.
However, some features had to bespecifically supplemented for MSA database.
Forexample, MH plural markers are few and are usu-ally suffixes.
MSA on the other hand, often uses?Broken Plural?
(a plural formed by changing thevocalic pattern of the singular, as opposed to af-fixation marking, e.g.
ka:tib (sing.)
!
k:atibu:na(pl.)
?writing?
; ka:tib (sing.)
!
kutta:b (pl.)?writer?
), which is only partially predictable, andtherefore must be included in the lemma records.Coding this feature did not require major change inthe database, since the MH database had optionalcoding for exceptional plural forms.By contrast, a field in MH lemma records re-dundant in MSA is stress location, which, as ap-posed to MH, is always predictable in MSA giventhe phonemic structure of the form.Case inflection in MSA (?i?ra:b) is entirelypredictable, hence depicted by rules in the morpho-logical rule database.
However, a field for case hadto be created in the database especially for MSA,as case does not occur in MH.Dual inflection exists in MH, though usuallyunproductive.
This means that the ?number?
cate-gory throughout the Morfix database could haveone of three values: singular, dual, or plural, so thatMSA handling, again, demanded no generalchange, but only a more widespread application ofan existing option in the Hebrew Morfix.The number of inflectional forms of a verb en-try is larger in MSA than it is in MH, most notablydue to the additional mood paradigms (Al-Mu?a:re?
Al-Majzu:m and Al-Mu?a:re?
Al-Man?u:b).
This, however, is of no major conse-quence to Morfix, apart from the fact that anotherfield had to be added to the morphological analysisstructure, namely ?mood?.The higher number of inflections per verb,along with the generality of the dual inflection,would have resulted in a larger overall number oftokens in MSA, had it not been for the Ktiv Maleorthographical system in MH that results in a 25%increment to the overall number of MH tokens (seealso above 1.4).The phenomenon of incomplete agreement(see also above 1.6) does not require an actualchange in the code of Morfix, since the termAGREEMENT (e.g.
between noun and adjective)has an external definition, independent for eachlanguage.
Syntactical rules in the system refer tothe term AGREEMENT, hence, rules that make useof the term AGREEMENT will apply, in manycases, to both languages.
In general, while some ofthe syntactical rules in the system are similar inboth languages, other rules are defined specificallyfor each of the two languages.
All rules for bothlanguages are specified using the same mechanism.In the MH database there are supplementaryplaceholders for the semi-vocalized spelling alter-natives, which are often redundant for MSA,though they do become useful especially in recentloan words.In MSA the verb predicate usually precedes itssubject (VSO), while in MH the subject tends toappear first (SVO), though in both languages wordorder is not fixed.
This difference is handled in thecontextual analysis for disambiguation purposes.MSA is used in various countries, each havingits own linguistic idiosyncrasies.
This entails lexi-cal differences and a few phonetic variations, aswell as some minor writing convention differences.This is handled by the MSA lemma database byassigning an additional field, where the relevantareas are specified.2.3 Software modules?
Morphological analyzer:This is the basic building block of our system.It analyzes an input string, and returns an array ofrecords containing detailed information regardingeach analysis: the lemma, part of speech, clitic de-tails, as well as gender, number; person, tense,mood, case, clitics and the like.?
LemmatizerThis is a version of the morphological ana-lyzer, the difference being that its output is lem-mas, not full morphological descriptions.
Thismeans that when several morphological analysesshare a single lemma, these analyses are unitedinto a single answer record, each includes just thelemma and its part of speech.For example, the string {waldy} has severalmorphological analyses (dual construct form: ?thetwo parents of?, dual form with genitive pronomi-nal enclitic: ?my two parents?, or singular formwith genitive pronominal enclitic: ?my father?
);however, the lemmatizer produces just one lemmafor all the above analyses: wa:lid ?a parent?.?
Context analyzerThe input for the context analyzer is a textbuffer.
It returns a set of morphological analysisrecord arrays, an array for each token found in thebuffer.
In the records there is one extra field ascompared to the basic morphological analyzer: thescore field, which reflects the effect of the contextanalysis.
The answer arrays are sorted according tothe declining order of the score.?
VocalizerGiven a word and a morphological analysis re-cord as input, this module outputs the input wordwith its vocalization.?
Text to phonemeGiven a vocalized word, and a morphologicalanalysis record as input, this module produces itsphonemic representation, including stress marking.?
Text to speechA module on top of the text-to-phoneme mod-ule, whose inputs are a text buffer and a morpho-logical analysis per word.
The text to phonememodule is called upon to produce the phonemicrepresentation of the buffer.
Then a prosody func-tion is called upon to assign duration values andpitch contours to each phoneme, and the output ofthis function is sent to a diphone based synthesisengine.2.4 Results and performanceThe Hebrew version of Morfix has achieved thefollowing results:Morfix generates exceptionally accurate lem-matization.
When indexing for full text search, thematching rate of the lemma receiving the highestscore to the correct lemma stands at above 98%.
Intypical Internet texts, between 1% and 2% ofwords remain unanalyzed (by and large, these areproper names not included in lexicon; in searchengine application, these undergo a morphologicalsoundex algorithm designed to enable the retrievalof proper names with prepositional proclitics).Performance depends on hardware and systemenvironments.
On a typical (as of date of publica-tion) Intel III 800 MHz CPU, with 256 MB RAMrunning Windows 2000, Morfix analyzes c. 10,000words per second.In text-to-speech (TTS) applications, the de-gree of words read correctly (fully correct phonetictranscription and stress location) is also 98%.
Thisnumber is no different than the number for lemma-tization, but is derived differently: on one hand,sometimes an error in lemmatization does not yieldan error in phonetization (in case of homonymictokens); on the other hand, TTS has to deal withphonetization of proper names not in the lexicon,which it carries out according to algorithms.
TheHebrew TTS system is successfully implementedin systems for reading e-mail and Internet texts.Performance of the TTS system is around 20%slower than lemmatization, due to extra processingthat computes the phonetic transcription given themorphological analysis.The final equivalent numbers for Arabic arestill not available as of date of publication.
None-theless, because the system is similar, and MSA isquite close to MH in terms of total number of in-flections and in degree of ambiguity, it is expectedto reach similar results.2.5 ApplicationsVarious modules of the system are used byvarious applications.
Main application beneficiar-ies include full text search, categorization andtextual data mining (where context sensitivemorphological analysis and lemmatization are cru-cial for Semitic languages), screen readers and e-mail-to-voice converters in telephony usage (es-pecially the text-to-speech module), automaticvocalizers for schools and book publishers (espe-cially the vocalization module), and online dic-tionaries (especially context sensitivelemmatization, to enable the retrieval of the correctentry when clicking on a word in context).A special thought was given in order to assistthe non-fluent speaker of MSA and MH.
Besidesthe fact that all applications trace the basic formsof words, sparing the process usually done by thespeaker himself, additional assistance is given,such as transliteration into Latin script.3 ConclusionWhen designing the adaptation of the MH sys-tem to MSA, the similarity between the languageson the structural level became even more apparentthan was anticipated.It became clear to us that unified studies andapplications for both languages can benefit bothcommercial and theoretical academic fields, andwe hope that this report can be a starting point forfurther incorporating NLP works in MH and MSA,namely, works that deal with the Semitic languagephenomena, rather than with a specific languagefrom this linguistic family.
This work can be im-plemented in other NLP systems, mainly of otherSemitic languages such as colloquial dialects ofArabic (e.g.
Egyptian or Syrian which are moreand more used in writing) and Maltese, but alsolanguages that share some of the Semitic traits,mainly rich and complex morphology, or that usealternative writing conventions.
This work lays theinfrastructure for further adaptation, though creat-ing special databases for each languages remains tobe done.ReferencesAlcalay R. (1990).
The Complete Hebrew-EnglishDictionary, Massada and Yediot AharonotPub., Tel-Aviv.Al-Munjid fi l-Lugha wa-l-I?lam (1992), Dar El-Mashriq Pub., Beirut.Ayalon D. and P. Shinar (1947).
Arabic-HebrewDictionary for the Modern Arabic Language,Hebrew University, Jerusalem.Beesley, K.R.
(2001).
?Finite-State MorphologicalAnalysis and Generation of Arabic at XeroxRe-search: Status and Plans in 2001?, in ArabicLanguage Processing: Status and Prospects -39th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pp.
1-8.Dichy, J.
(2001), ?On Lemmatization of the ArabicEntries of Multilingual Lexical Databases?, inArabic Language Processing: Status and Pros-pects - 39th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pp.
23-30.Even-Shoshan, A.
(1992).
Ha-Milon He-?adash,Kiryat Sefer, Jerusalem.Glinert, L. (1989).
The Grammar of Modern He-brew, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Holes, C. (1995).
Modern Arabic: Structures,Functions and Varieties, Longman LinguisticsLibrary, London.Wehr, H. (1976).
A Dictionary of Modern WrittenArabic, Ithaca, NY.Wright, W. (1896).
A Grammar of the Arabic Lan-guage, Cambridge: University Press.
