Using the Segmentation Corpus to define an inventory ofconcatenative units for Cantonese speech synthesisWai Yi Peggy WONGChris BREWMary E. BECKMANLinguistics Dept., Ohio State University222 Oxley Hall, 1712 Neil Ave.Columbus, OH, 43210-1298  USA{pwong, cbrew, mbeckman}@ling.osu.eduShui-duen CHANChinese Language Centre,Hong Kong Polytechnic UniversityYuk Choi Road, Hung Hom, Kowloon,HONG KONGchsdchan@polyu.edu.hkAbstractThe problem of word segmentation affectsall aspects of Chinese language processing,including the development of text-to-speechsynthesis systems.
In synthesizing a HongKong Cantonese text, for example, wordsmust be identified in order to model fusionof coda [p] with initial [h], and other similareffects that differentiate word-internalsyllable boundaries from syllable edges thatbegin or end words.
Accurate segmentationis necessary also for developing any list ofwords large enough to identify the word-internal cross-syllable sequences that mustbe recorded to model such effects usingconcatenated synthesis units.
This paperdescribes our use of the SegmentationCorpus to constrain such units.IntroductionWhat are the best units to use in building a fixedinventory of concatenative units for an unlimitedvocabulary text-to-speech (TTS) synthesissystem for a language?
Given a particular choiceof unit type, how large is the inventory of suchunits for the language, and what is the best wayto design materials to cover all or most of theseunits in one recording session?
Are there effectssuch as prosodically conditioned allophony thatcannot be modeled well by the basic unit type?These are questions that can only be answeredlanguage by language, and answering them forCantonese1 poses several interesting challenges.1We use ?Cantonese?
to mean the newer Hong KongOne major challenge involves the definitionof the ?word?
in Cantonese.
As in other varietiesof Chinese, morphemes in Cantonese aretypically monosyllabic and syllable structure isextremely simple, which might suggest thedemi-syllable or even the syllable (Chu &Ching, 1997) as an obvious basic unit.
At thesame time, however, there are segmental?sandhi?
effects that conjoin syllables within aword.
For example, when the morpheme ?zaap6 2  stands as a word alone (meaning ?tocollect?
), the [p] is a glottalized and unreleasedcoda stop, but when the morpheme occurs in thelonger word ??
zaap6hap6 (?to assemble?
),the coda [p] often resyllabifies and fuses withthe following [h] to make an initial aspiratedstop.
Accurate word segmentation at the textanalysis level is essential for identifying thedomain of such sandhi effects in any full-fledgedTTS system, whatever method is used forgenerating the waveform from the specifiedpronunciation of the word.
A further challenge isto find a way to capture such sandhi effects insystems that use concatenative methods forwaveform generation.This paper reports on research aimed atdefining an inventory of concatenative units forCantonese using the Segmentation Corpus, alexicon of 33k words extracted from a largecorpus of Cantonese newspaper texts.
Thecorpus is described further in Section 2 after anexcursus (in Section 1) on the problems posedstandard, and not the older Canton City one.2 We use the Jyutping romanization developed by theLinguistics Society of Hong Kong in 1993.
Seehttp://www.cpct92.cityu.edu.hk/lshk.by the Cantonese writing system.
Section 3outlines facts about Cantonese phonologyrelevant to choosing the concatenative unit, andSection 4 calculates the number of units thatwould be necessary to cover all theoreticallypossible syllables and sequences of syllables.The calculation is done for three models: (1)syllables, as in Chu & Ching (1997), (2) Law &Lee?s (2000) mixed model of onsets, rhymes,and cross-syllabic rhyme-onset units, and (3) apositionally sensitive diphone model.
Thissection closes by reporting how the number ofunits in the last model is reduced by exploitingthe sporadic and systematic phonotactic gapsdiscovered by looking for words exemplifyingeach possible unit in the Segmentation Corpus.1 The Cantonese writing systemThe Cantonese writing system poses uniquechallenges for developing online lexicons, notall of which are related to the ?foremostproblem?
of word segmentation.
These problemsstem from the long and rich socio-politicalhistory of the dialect, which makes the writingsystem even less regular than the Mandarin one,even though Cantonese is written primarily withthe same logographs (?Chinese characters?
).The main problem is that each character hasseveral readings, and the reading cannot alwaysbe determined based on the immediate contextof the other characters in a multisyllabic word.For some orthographic forms, the variation isstylistic.
For example, the word??
?support?can be pronounced zi1jyun4 or zi1wun4.
Butfor other orthographic forms, the variation inpronunciation corresponds to different words,with different meanings.
For example, thecharacter sequence??
writes both the functionword zing3dong1 ?while?
and the content wordzing3dong3 ?proper?.
Moreover, some words,such as ko1 ?to page, telephone?, ge3 (genitiveparticle), and laa3 (aspect marker), have nostandard written form.
In colloquial styles ofwriting, these forms may be rendered in non-standard ways, such as using the English sourceword call to write ko1, or writing the particleswith special characters unique to Cantonese.
Inmore formal writing, however, such forms mustbe left to the reader to interpolate from acharacter ?borrowed?
from some othermorpheme.
For example, ge3 (genitive particle)might be written ?
, a character which moretypically writes the morpheme dik1 inmuk6dik1??
?aim?, but which suggests ge3because it also writes a genitive particle inMandarin (de in the Pinyin romanization).
Thus,?
has a reading dik1 that is etymologicallyrelated to the Mandarin morpheme, but it alsohas the etymologically independent reading ge3because Cantonese readers can read texts writtenin Mandarin as if they were Cantonese.
Suchambiguities of reading make the task ofdeveloping online wordlists from text corporadoubly difficult, since word segmentation isonly half the task.2 The Segmentation CorpusThe Segmentation Corpus is an electronicdatabase of around 33,000 Cantonese word typesextracted from a 1.7 million character corpus ofHong Kong newspapers, along with a tokenizedrecord of the text.
It is described in more detailin Chan & Tang (1999).
The Cantonese corpusis part of a larger database of segmented Chinesetexts, including Mandarin newspapers from boththe PRC and Taiwan.
The three databases werecreated using word-segmentation criteriadeveloped by researchers at the ChineseLanguage Centre and Department of Chineseand Bilingual Studies, Hong Kong PolytechnicUniversity.
Since these criteria were intended tobe applicable to texts in all three varieties, theydo not refer to the phonology.For our current purpose, the most useful partof the Segmentation Corpus is the wordlistproper, a file containing a separate entry for eachword type identified by the segmentation criteria.Each entry has three fields: the orthographicform(s), the pronunciation(s) in Jyutping, andthe token frequency in the segmented newspapercorpus.
In the original corpus, the first fieldcould have multiple entries.
For example, thereare two character strings, ??
and?
?, in theentry for the word faan6laam6 ?to flood?.However, the two readings of ??
were notlisted separately in the pronunciation field forthat orthographic form (and there was only oneentry for the two words written with ??
).Before we could use the wordlist, therefore,we had to check the pronunciation field for eachentry.
The first author, a native speaker of HongKong Cantonese, examined each entry in orderto add variant readings not originally listed (asin the entry for ??
?support?)
and to correctreadings that did not correspond to the modernHong Kong pronunciation (as in the entry for??box?).
In addition, when the added variantpronunciation corresponded to an identifiablydifferent word (as in zing3dong3 ?proper?versus zing3dong1 ?while?
for ??
), theentry was split in two, and all tokens of thatcharacter string in the larger corpus wereexamined, in order to allocate the total tokencount for the orthographic form to the twoseparate frequencies for the two different words.Approximately 90 original entries were split intoseparate entries by this processing.
In this way,the 32,840 entries in the original word listbecame 33,037 entries.
Once this task wascompleted, we could use the wordlist to countall of the distinct units that would be needed tosynthesize all of the words in the SegmentationCorpus.
To explain what these units are, weneed to describe the phonology of Cantonesewords and longer utterances.3 Cantonese phonologyThe smallest possible word is a nasal ([m] or[]) or vowel as a bare tone-bearing syllablenucleus, as in ?
ng5 ?five?
and?
aa2 ?dumb?.A syllable with a vowel as nucleus can also havean onset consonant, and it can have a morecomplex rhyme which combines the vowel withany of the three coda nasals [m], [n], and [], thetwo glides [j] and [w], or the three coda stops[p], [t], and [k], as in ?
zoeng1 ?will?, ?
wai6?stomach?, and ?
leot2 ?rate?.
Tables 1 and 2show the 11 vowels and 19 consonants ofCantonese, and Figure 1 plots representative F0contours for each of the tones that contrast on asyllable with an all-sonorant rhyme.If there were no phonotactic restrictions oncombinations of vowels and consonants, therewould be 101 distinct rhymes in each of the sixtones.
However, not all combinations arepossible.
For example, tone 5 does not occur onsyllables with coda stops (and tone 4 on suchchecked syllables is limited to onomatopoeia).Also, the mid short vowel [e] does not occur inopen syllables, and in closed syllables it occursonly before [k], [], and [j], whereas [i:] occursin closed syllables only before [p], [t], [m], [n],and [w].
The Jyutping transliteration systemtakes advantage of this kind of complementarydistribution to limit the number of vowelsymbols.
Thus ?i?
is used to transcribe both theshort mid vowel [e] in the rhymes [ek] and [e],and the high vowel [i:] in the rhymes [i:], [i:t],[i:p], [i:m], [i:n], and [i:w].
Ignoring tone, thereare 54 rhyme types in standard usage ofJyutping.
Canonical forms of longer words canbe described to a very rough first approximationas strings of syllables.
However, fluent synthesiscannot be achieved simply by stringing syllablestogether without taking into account the effectsof position in the word or phrase.front central backround  roundi: y:  u: higheo mid (short): :  : mid (long) a: low vowelsTable 1.
Vowels of Cantonese.labial dental palatal velar labiovelarph th, tsh  kh khwp t, ts  k kwf s    hm n, l  wTable 2.
Consonants of Cantonese.Time (s)0 0.7100300tone 1tone 3tone 6tone 4tone 2tone 5Figure 1.
F0 contours for six words [wj] withdifferent tones.
Numbers to the right identify theendpoints of the two rising tones (in grey) andnumbers to the left identify starting points of theother four tones (in black).
The discontinuities inwai4 are where the speaker breaks into creak.o5 jyun4 loi4 hai6 wai3223 221 221 22 333 HL%laa221+22Time (s)0 1.56807100250Frequency(Hz)Figure 2.
Spectrogram with F0 track superimposed for an utterance of the sentence o5 jyun4loi4 hai6wai3 ?Oh, I get it.
It was the character?!?
(The context is a dictation task.)
The labelling window above thesignal view shows a partial transcription in the annotation conventions proposed by Wong, Chan & Beckman(in press), with a syllable-by-syllable Jyutping transliteration (top tier), a transcription of the (canonical)lexical tones and boundary tone, and a phonetic transcription of fused forms (lowest tier).
The HL%boundary tone is a pragmatic morpheme, which we have translated with the ?Oh, I get it.?
phrase.?
?
?
?
basic unitsJyutping ging1 zai3 hok6 gaa1 (added units)Chu & Ching :	 	:# 1042 (1042)Law & Lee #$ $:	$	 :# 1801diphones # $  j $: :	 	: :# 1097Table 3.
The string of basic units and exceptional units (underlined) that would be needed to synthesize anutterance of the word ?economist?
in each of the three models.One of these effects is the fusion of coda [p]with initial [h] in words such as ??
zaap6hap6.
In fluent connected speech, such effectscan be extreme.
Consonants can be reduced ordeleted, with the abutting vowels fused together,as in the pronunciation [jy:n21la:212] for thephrase ???
jyun4loi4 hai6 ?was?
(withthe verb cliticized onto the preceding tenseadverb) as in Figure 2.
Eventually, we plan touse the larger Segmentation Corpus to look forlikely targets of fusion.
For now, however, wefocus on positional effects that can be modeledjust by recording word lists.
Figure 2 illustratesone such effect.
The final syllable in thisutterance is sustained, to be longer than the otherfour syllables combined.
It also bears two extratone targets for the HL% boundary tone.
(SeeWong, Chan & Beckman, in press, for adiscussion of these utterance-level effects.
)Phrase-final lengthening is not usually soextreme in read speech, and the inventory ofboundary tones is more limited.
However, therewill be sufficient final lengthening to warrant therecording of separate units for (the rhymes of)final syllables.
These two positional effectsincrease the inventory of units, albeit in differentways depending on the choice of ?basic?
unit.4 Counting different unit typesTable 3 illustrates three synthesis models usingthe word ????
ging1zai3hok6gaa1?economist?.
The last column in Table 3 lists thetheoretically possible number of basic units.
Thefirst model concatenates syllables.
If each onsetcould be combined with each rhyme, therewould be 1042 syllable types.
A second set ofsyllables can be recorded to capture finallengthening.
However, there is no comparablyobvious way to capture the cross-syllabic effectswith this concatenative unit.
The second modeluses cross-syllabic units which combine therhyme of one syllable with the following initial.This automatically captures the sandhi effects.The model also captures final lengthening,because separate units are recorded for onsetswith no preceding rhyme and rhymes with nofollowing onset.
With 54 final rhymes, 1728combinations of rhyme followed by medialonset, and 19 initial onsets, there are 1801theoretically possible units.
The last model isour diphone model, which differentiates codasfrom onset consonants.
That is, the rhyme aak$is distinct from the cross-syllabic diphone aa$k.This model has the advantage over Law & Lee?scross-syllable final-initial combination model inthat spectral continuity between the initial andrhyme is captured in the CV diphones (such as#gi and zai).
Similarly, the diphones capturethe dependency between the quality of the [h]and that of the following vowel (i.e., one recordsseparate cross-syllable diphones for i$ho, i$hi,i$haa, and so on).
However, the number oftheoretically possible units is smaller, becausewe do not record consonant sequences that abutsilence with silence ?
e.g., aak$ can becombined directly with $ka or $ta, so no cross-syllabic units need be recorded for k$k and k$t.Note that none of these counts takes toneinto consideration.
However, since everysyllable bears a (full) tone, and since tones arerarely deleted in running speech, recordingdifferent units for rhymes with different tonesshould improve naturalness, particularly forcases where voice quality is part of the tonalspecification (as suggested by the contour fortone 4 in Figure 1).
Naturalness may also requiredifferent cross-syllabic units for different tonesequences when sonorant segments abut atsyllable edges (so as to insure tonal continuity).Of course, when tone specification is takeninto account, the number of necessary unitsgrows substantially.
For example, there are12,120 distinct syllables, and even more units inthe other two models.
However, when we countonly those types that are attested in the words ofthe Segmentation Corpus, there are many fewerunits.
For example, the total number of attestedunits taking tone into account in the diphonemodel is 2292.
If each diphone were recorded ina disyllabic carrier word, a Cantonese speakercould speak all of the words to make a newvoice in a single recording session.
(Forcomparison, the number of attested diphonesignoring tone is 634.
)ConclusionWe have shown one way of using a segmenteddatabase to inform the design of a unit inventoryfor TTS.
We augmented the SegmentationCorpus with transliterations that would let uspredict more accurately the pronunciation that aCantonese speaker adopting a careful speakingstyle would be likely to produce for a charactersequence.
Judgements about the phonology ofCantonese, in combination with the augmentedwordlist, and the associated word frequencydata, can be used to assess the costs and likelybenefits of different strategies for unit selectionin Cantonese TTS.
In particular, we present dataindicating the feasibility of a new diphoneselection strategy that finesses some of theproblems in modelling the interactions betweentone and segmental identity.
It remains to bedemonstrated that this strategy can actuallydeliver the results which it appears to promise.This is our future work.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported by a grant from theUniversity Grants Committee of Hong Kong toY.
S. Cheung and an SBC/Ameritech FacultyResearch Award to C. Brew and M. Beckman.ReferencesChan S. D. and Tang Z. X.
(1999) QuantitativeAnalysis of Lexical Distribution in DifferentChinese Communities in the 1990?s.
Yuyan WenziYingyong [Applied Linguistics], No.3, 10-18.Chu M. and Ching P. C. (1997) A Cantonesesynthesizer based on TD-PSOLA method.Proceedings of the 1997 International Symposiumon Multimedia Information Processing.
AcademiaSinica, Taipei, Taiwan, Dec. 1997.Law K. M. and Lee Tan (2000) Using cross-syllableunits for Cantonese speech synthesis.
Proceedingsof the 2000 International Conference on SpokenLanguage Processing, Beijing, China, Oct. 2000.Wong W. Y. P., Chan M. K-M., and Beckman M. E.(in press)  An Autosegmental-Metrical analysis andprosodic conventions for Cantonese.
To appear inS-A.
Jun, ed.
Prosodic Models and Transcription:Towards Prosodic Typology.
Oxford UniversityPress.
