A brief introduction to the GeM annotation schema for complexdocument layoutJohn BatemanUniversity of BremenBremen, Germanybateman@uni-bremen.deRenate HenschelUniversity of StirlingStirling, Scotlandrhenschel@uni-bremen.deJudy DelinUniversity of Stirling andEnterprise IDUNewport Pagnell, Englandjudy.delin@enterpriseidu.comAbstractIn this paper we sketch the design, motivationand use of the GeM annotation scheme: anXML-based annotation framework for prepar-ing corpora involving documents with complexlayout of text, graphics, diagrams, layout andother navigational elements.
We set out thebasic organizational layers, contrast the techni-cal approach with some other schemes for com-plex markup in the XML tradition, and indicatesome of the applications we are pursuing.1 IntroductionIn the GeM project (?Genre and Multimodal-ity?
: http://www.purl.org/net/gem)1we areinvestigating the relationship between differentdocument genres and their potential realiza-tional forms in combinations of text, layout,graphics, pictures and diagrams.
The central fo-cus of the project is to develop a theory of visualand textual page layout in electronic and paperdocuments that includes adequate attention tolocal and expert knowledge in information de-sign.
By analysing resources across visual andverbal modes, we aim to reveal the purpose ofeach in contributing to the message and struc-ture of the communicative artefact as a whole.We see it as crucial, however, that research ofthis nature be placed on as solid an empiricalbasis as has become common in other areas oflinguistic inquiry.
The data basis for many ofthe claims made in this area hitherto has beenfar too narrow: the provision of suitable corpusmaterials is therefore fundamental.For such an enterprise to succeed, it is es-sential to obtain or construct a structured set1The GeM project is funded by the British Economicand Social Research Council, whose support we grate-fully acknowledge.
We also thank the anonymous review-ers for this workshop for some very useful comments.of data on which to base the analysis; thatis, in the words of Gunther Kress, a leadingresearcher in the area of multimodal meaning(cf., e.g., Kress and Van Leeuwen (2001)): weneed ?to turn stuff into data?.
In our case,the ?stuff?
consists of raw paged-based infor-mation presentations, such as illustrated books,newspapers (print and online versions), instruc-tional texts, manuals, and so on; the ?data?is then highly structured re-representations ofthese documents that bring out parallel but in-terrelated dimensions of organization crucial forthe total effect, or meaning, of the ?page?.Although it is (a) widely accepted that datafor designing and improving natural languageprocessing can best be made available in theform of structured, standardized annotated cor-pora and (b) increasingly accepted that suchdata should stretch to include more than thetraditional concerns of linguistics?i.e., speechand plain text data?and take in more visu-ally challenging presentations, movements inthis direction have to date been very limited.The GeM annotation scheme is being devel-oped in order to support analyses of the broaderrange of layout-text-graphical interactions thatis commonplace in professionally designed doc-uments.
We are currently annotating an ex-ploratory corpus in order to bring out the com-plex interrelationships that can be observedwithin page-based information delivery.2 Annotation contentThe starting basis for our annotation drawson some detailed non-computational ac-counts of the organization of multimodalpages/documents?most specifically, the seminalaccount of constraints on document designby Waller (1987)?and exploratory computa-tional accounts?such as the layout structuresintroduced by Bateman et al (2001).
Thisorganization reflects both artefact-internalconsiderations such as the layout, text andgraphics, as well as artefact-external consid-erations such as design decisions, productionconstraints (e.g., cost), and artefact constraints(i.e., the limited size of a piece of papercontrasted with the theoretically unboundedscrollable window on a computer screen).
Theseexternal considerations are often connected.The ?ideal?
layout of information on a pagemight as a consequence never occur: it mustbe ?folded in?
to the structures afforded by theartefact, and labelled and arranged accordingto the structures required for access.In order to pick apart and explicitly repre-sent the strands of meaning that we believe playa crucial role in multimodal page-based docu-ment design, we require several orthogonal lay-ers of annotation.
We claim that these levels arethe minimum necessary for revealing accountsof the operation of the kinds of visual artifactsbeing gathered in our corpus?we expect furtherlayers to be added.
Indeed, we consider it acrucial design feature that the annotation lay-ers adopted be additive and open rather thanexcluding and closed.
The layers at the focus ofattention within the current phase of the GeMenterprise are:?
Rhetorical structure: the rhetorical rela-tionships between content elements; howthe content is ?argued?;?
Layout structure: the nature, appearanceand position of communicative elements onthe page;?
Navigation structure: the ways in whichthe intended mode(s) of consumption of thedocument is/are supported.We then need in addition to these layers, ex-plicit representation of constraints that rangefreely over the layers and which relate designdecisions to document types, or genres.
Furtherconstraints that are known to determine docu-ment design include: canvas constraints, arisingout of the physical nature of the object beingproduced (e.g., page or screen, fold-geometry inleaflets, and so on), production constraints, aris-ing out of the production technology, and con-sumption constraints, arising out of the time,place, and manner of acquiring and consumingthe document.
Further details and backgroundfor our approach to document design and de-scription are given in Delin et al (2002).Our corpus needs to contain informationabout each of these contributing sources of con-straint in a way that supports empirical in-vestigation.
Our hypothesis, following Waller(1987), is that not only is it possible to findsystematic correspondences between these lay-ers, but also that those correspondences them-selves will depend on specifiable aspects of theircontext of use.
But to verify (or otherwise) thishypothesis, the data gathering and annotationmust come first.
And this leads directly to someimportant technical issues, since the structuresinduced by these layers of constraint can behighly divergent and need to be mapped ontoone another with extreme flexibility.
The well-known corpus annotation problem of intersect-ing hierarchies therefore arises here with consid-erable force.3 Technical approachOur approach to implementing the requiredmultiple layer annotation scheme is to adoptmultiple level ?stand-off?
or ?remote?
annota-tions similar to those suggested by Thompsonand McKelvie (1997) or the Corpus EncodingStandard (e.g., CES, 1999: Annex 10).
Foreach document to be included in the corpus,therefore, we create a ?base level?
documentwhose purpose is provide a common set of unitsto which all subsequent stand-off levels refer.These base level units range over textual, graph-ical and layout elements and give a comprehen-sive account of the material on the page, i.e.they comprise everything which can be seen onthe page/pages of the document, including: or-thographic sentences, sentence fragments initi-ating a list, headings, titles, headlines, photos,drawings, diagrams, figures (without caption),captions of photos, drawings, diagrams, tables,text in photos, drawings, diagrams, icons, tablescells, list headers, list items, list labels (itemiz-ers), items in a menu, page numbers, footnotes(without footnote label), footnote labels, run-ning heads, emphasized text, horizontal or ver-tical lines which function as delimiters betweencolumns or rows, lines, arrows, and polylineswhich connect other base units.
Each such el-ement is marked as a base unit and receives aunique base unit identifier.The more abstract annotation levels maythen group base units as required; these group-ings must again be very flexible?for exam-ple, it is quite possible that non-consecutivebasic units need to be grouped (and thatdiffering non-consecutive basic units will begrouped within differing annotation layers).Each of the more abstract layers is repre-sented formally as a further structured XMLspecification whose precise informational con-tent and form is in turn defined by an ap-propriate Document Type Definition (DTD).2Each layer defines a particular structural viewof the original document.
The markupfor a single document then consists mini-mally of the following four inter-related layers:Name contentGeM base base unitsRST base rhetorical structureLayout base layout properties andstructureNavigation base navigation elementsand structureAll information apart from that of the baselevel is expressed in terms of pointers to the rel-evant units of the base level.
This stand-off ap-proach to annotation readily supports the nec-essary range of intersecting, overlapping hierar-chical structures commonly found in even thesimplest documents.The relationships of the differing annotationlevels to the base level units is depicted graph-ically in Figure 1.
This shows that base units(the central column) provide the basic vocabu-lary for all other kinds of units and can, further,be cross-classified.Space precludes a detailed account of the or-ganization of all the levels of the annotationscheme.
Instead we select some examples of anannotated document at each layer of annotationto give an indication of the annotation scheme inaction.
For further technical details and spec-ifications of the annotation scheme, the inter-ested reader is referred to the technical manual(Henschel, 2002).
For ease of exposition, we willdraw most of our examples from the annotationof the page shown in Figure 2.
This page has2For the DTDs themselves, as well as further infor-mation and examples, see the GeM corpus webpages.base unitsLayoutSemanticContentRSTsegmentsnavigationalelementslayout unitsFigure 1: The distribution of base elements tolayout, rhetorical and navigational elementsFigure 2: Example page: Flegg, J.
(1999)Collins Gem Birds.
Italy: Harper Collins.
p21.Used by kind permission of the publisher.the advantage that it is relatively straightfor-ward; more complex examples can be found onthe corpus webpages.The base unit annotation (GemBase) for anextract from the centre of the page is as follows:<unit id="u-21.5">---------------</unit><unit id="u-21.6"src="gannet.jpg" alt="gannet-photo"/><unit id="u-21.7">Huge (90cm) unmistakable seabird.</unit><unit id="u-21.8">Watch for white, cigar-shaped body andlong straight, slender, black-tipped wings.</unit><unit id="u-21.9">In summer, yellow head ofadult inconspicuous.
</unit><unit id="u-21.10">Plunges spectacularly for fish.</unit><unit id="u-21.11">Sexes similar.</unit>Although the base annotation generally has aflat structure, in certain cases, we diverge fromthis and allow nested markup, i.e., base unitsinside base units.
This is used in the followingsituations: emphasized text portions in a sen-tence/heading, icons or similar pictorial signs ina sentence, text pieces in a diagram or picture,arrows and other graphical signs in a diagramor picture, and document deictic expressions oc-curring in a sentence.The layout base then consists of three mainparts: (a) layout segmentation?identification ofthe minimal layout units, (b) realization infor-mation ?
typographical and other layout prop-erties of the basic layout units, and (c) the lay-out structure information?the grouping of thelayout units into more complex layout entities.Whereas in typography, the minimal layout el-ement (in text) is the glyph, here we are con-cerned with groupings of base units that havea visual coherence and unity with respect tothe organisation of the page: these groupingsare termed layout units and, unlike the baseunits, are organized into a non-trivial hierarchi-cal structure as required to describe the page.Again, each layout-unit has an id attribute,which carries an identifying symbol; in addition,however, the stand-off annotation is achievedvia an attribute xref which points to the baseunits which belong to that layout unit.
It ispossible, but not necessary, to store the corre-sponding text portions of the original text filebetween the start and end tag of a layout-unitfor mnemonic purposes; this text information isnot used in any further processing.
The follow-ing extract shows the layout unit correspondingto the main block of text underneath the gannetphoto.<layout-unit id="lay-flegg-text"xref="u-21.7 u-21.8 u-21.9u-21.10 u-21.11">Huge (90cm) unmistakable seabird.Watch for white, cigar-shaped bodyand long straight, slender,black-tipped wings.
In summer, yellowhead of adult inconspicuous.
Plungesspectacularly for fish.
Sexes similar.</layout-unit>The second part of the layout base is the re-alization.
Each layout unit specified in the lay-out segmentation has a visual realization.
Themost apparent difference is which mode hasbeen used ?
the verbal or the visual mode.
Fol-lowing this distinction, the layout base differen-tiates between two kinds of elements: textualelements and graphical elements marked withthe tags <text> and <graphics> respectively.These two elements have a differing sets of at-tributes describing their layout properties.
Theattributes are generally consistent with the lay-out attributes defined for XSL formatting ob-ject and CSS layout models.
The id of eachlayout unit of the segmentation part of the lay-out base has to occur exactly once under xrefin the realization part: either in a <text> ora <graphics> element.
In the following cod-ing example, we have five layout units whichshare typographical characteristics.
These cor-respond to the five table cells in the first columnof the table on the page shown in Figure 2.<text xref="lay-21.12 lay-21.14 lay-21.16lay-21.18 lay-21.20"font-family="sans-serif"font-size="10" font-style="normal"font-weight="bold"case="mixed" justification="right"color="black"/>The third part of the layout base then servesto represent the hierarchical layout structure.Generally we assume that the layout structureof a document is tree-like with the entire docu-ment being the root; this will certainly be prob-lematic for some document types but also hassufficient applicability to enable us to make con-siderable headway.
Each layout chunk is a nodein the tree, and the basic layout units, whichhave been identified in the segmentation part ofthe layout base, are the terminal nodes of thattree.
In our annotation, we use several differenttags for the nodes in the layout tree.
The threemost common are: <layout-root>, the ele-ment describing the entire document, <layout-chunk>, all non-terminal nodes in the layouttree except for the root, and <layout-leaf>,the terminal nodes.
A slightly simplified (i.e.,some further substructure is ommitted) extractof the layout structure for our example page isdepicted graphically in Figure 3; it is describedby the following XML annotation:page-21header-21 body-21 page-no-21lay-21.2 lay-21.3Figure 3: Example page layout structure showngraphically<layout-root id="page-21"><layout-leaf xref="header-21"/><layout-chunk id="body-21"><layout-leaf xref="lay-21.2"/><layout-leaf xref="lay-21.3"/></layout-chunk><layout-leaf xref="page-no-21"/></layout-root>Whereas the annotations so far specify thehierarchical structuring of a page into visuallydistinguishable and groupable layout units, weneed also to record specific information abouthow layout units are placed on their pages: thepage or page segment layout is not fully deter-mined by grouping layout units into a tree struc-ture since further information is required aboutthe actual position of each unit in the docu-ment (on or within its page).
For this, we in-troduce an area model, which serves to deter-mine the position of each layout-chunk/layout-leaf in an abstract, but fully explicit, way.
Thearea model is a generalization of common no-tions of ?page models?.
Each page usually par-titions its space into sub-areas and these can beused for positioning or aligning layout units orsubtrees of the layout structure.
For instance,a page is often designed in three rows ?
thearea for the running head (row-1), the area forthe page body (row-2), and the area for thepage number (row-3) ?
which are arranged ver-tically.
The page body space can itself consistof two columns arranged horizontally.
Theserows/columns need not to be of equal size.
Forthe present, we restrict ourselves to rectangularareas and sub-areas, and allow recursive areasubdivision.
The partitioning of the space ofthe entire document is defined in the area-root,which structures the document (page) into rect-angular sub-areas in a table-like fashion.The tag to represent the area root is <area-root>.
The tag to represent the division ofa sub-area into smaller rectangles is <sub-area>, this shares the attributes of the rootbut adds a location attribute so that subareasare positioned relative to their parent.
Loca-tions are indicated with respect to a logical griddefining rows and columns.
The area model forour example page therefore contains a single col-umn with 5 rows (the header, the photograph,the text block, the table, and the footer), inwhich the fourth row, the table, is itself madeup of a subarea corresponding to the rows andcolumns of a virtual table.
This is captured bythe following annotation:<area-root id="page-frame" cols="1" rows="5"hspacing="100" vspacing="5 40 15 45 5"height="16cm" width="14cm"><sub-area id="table-frame" location="row-4"cols="2" rows="5" hspacing="10 90"vspacing="100"/></area-root>The attribute vspacing=?
?5 40 15 45 5?
?means that the area for the running head takes5% of the entire page height, the area for thenext row 40%, etc.
The area model then pro-vides logical names for the precise positioningof the layout units identified in the hierarchi-cal layout structure.
This makes it straightfor-ward to indicate, for example, that collectionsof siblings in the layout structure share (or failto share) some particular alignment propertieswithin the page.The RST base presents the rhetorical struc-ture of the document.
The rhetorical structureis annotated following the Rhetorical StructureTheory (RST) of Mann and Thompson (1988).The relation between rhetorical structure andlayout is currently an important area of studyin multimodal document description and so itsinclusion in the GeM annotation scheme is es-sential.
Several annotation schemes for RSThave been proposed in the literature (cf.
DanielMarcu and Mick O?Donnell?s proposals, e.g.,www.sil.org/?mannb/rst/toolnote.htm and theRAGS rhetorical level: Cahill et al (2001)).The precise GeM notation differs from thesein certain respects, but the main principles ofrepresentation remain similar.
Since many ofthe details of the rhetorical annotation presumesome familiarity with the decomposition of textsaccording to RST, we will note here simply thatthis annotation layer again represents a hierar-chical decomposition in which the leaves of thetree can correspond to both textual and graph-ical base units.Finally, the navigation base captures thoseparts of the document/page which tell thereader where the current text, or ?documentthread?, is continued or which point to an al-ternative continuation or continuations.
Thesemake up the navigation layer of annotation.The addresses used by such pointers are eithernames of RST spans or names of layout chunks.For long-distance navigation, typical nodes inthe RST structure and in the layout structurehave been established for use in pointers; inparticular, chapter/section headings are namesfor RST spans and page numbers are namesfor page-sized layout-chunks.
This structureimposed by the navigational elements is thusquite different from the preceding layers andcan freely cross-cut the hierarchicies expressedthere.
Again, for further details, the reader isrefered to the documentation manual.4 Comparison with otherXML-based approachesIt is useful to consider other approaches torepresenting ?overlapping hierarchies?
that havebeen proposed in the XML literature; sincethese are early days in the construction of suchannotation schemes, it is likely that the expe-rience gained with differing schemes will provehighly beneficial for further development.The first examples of extensive overlappinghierarchies within markup for NLP are proba-bly to be found in speech corpora.
It is clearthat intonational phenomena, for example, mayor may not respect grammatical or other kindsof structure and so need to be maintained sep-arately.
Speech-oriented corpora generally usethe time line as a basic reference method sincespeech events are necessarily strictly orderedin time.
This is quite different in the GeMcase where we have found the non-linearity andthe non-consecutive nature of the units groupedwithin our annotation scheme as presenting amajor problem for annotation models that havebeen developed in the speech processing tradi-tion where contiguity of units is the expectedcase.
Whereas the speech signal can be encodedby means of time-stamps, in the GeM model weneed to use the layout structure (or even thearea model within the layout structure) insteadfor placing elements within the physical docu-ment.One of the most detailed general considera-tions of the range of XML-based solutions tothe multiple, overlapping hierarchies problem,as well as an extensive listing of further litera-ture, is given by Durusau and O?Donnell (sub-mitted).
After reviewing several requirementsand approaches to the problem, Durusau andO?Donnell propose a Bottom-Up Virtual Hier-archy approach which (i) creates multiple in-stances of the source document, each with itsown consistent XML-defined hierarchy and (ii)creates one further document instance called the?base file?, in which each basic element of thedocument is linked via XPath expressions to itsposition in each of the separately defined hier-archy documents.
The position in each separatehierarchy is captured as the value of a distinctattribute to a base element tag.
This meansthat the base file becomes extremely complex,although Durusau and O?Donnell envisage thatthis file could in future be automatically con-structed and maintained.The similarity of this approach to the inde-pendently developed GeM approach argues toa certain extent for the necessity of proceedingin this direction.
The differences between theapproaches arise from the different tasks thatare being considered and the corresponding dif-ferences in emphasis.
Durusau and O?Donnellare considering the task from the perspective ofdiffering ?interpretations?
of a text in the sensemore commonly pursued in text corpus markup:it is, therefore, natural to consider each hier-archy as an autonomous marked-up document.We are concerned with linguistic analyses ofdocuments, where the structure of the analy-ses themselves is itself a major focus of atten-tion.
It is then no longer so important thateach level of analysis transparently representsa ?view of the text?.
When querying the cor-pus for structural and realizational regularities,we are free to do this across any set of the an-notation layers present, using the full power ofproperly parsed XPath expressions, and with-out the need to always decompose such queriesinto the terms of the elements of the base file.This is the XML reflex of the linguistic strategyof stratification of linguistic information acrossthe linguistic system.Single structured text views can, of course,be created out of the GeM markup by followingthe indirection links present in any individualGeM annotation layer.
This requires that thatlayer be interpreted with respect to the corre-sponding base level document and is not then?locally?
complete.
This (formally slight) com-plexity is, we feel, more than balanced by thefact that we need neither any additional com-plexity in our base level markup nor the doublecoding of the position of nodes in hierarchiesand base elements.
It is also straightforwardto introduce intermediate levels of structuralanalysis?as, for example, already done in our se-lection of base units as units relevant to layoutrather than ?words?
or other more straightfor-ward formal units.
Indeed, when the more tra-ditional linguistic levels of annotation (syntax,semantics) are added into the complete scheme,many of the GeM annotation layers will con-tinue not to access the leaves of these structuresat all, and will continue to work with the baseunits illustrated here; this variable granularitymay prove to be a general requirement for lin-guistically complex analyses.
And, finally, wealso need not recompile our base level documentwhenever an additional layer of annotation isadded to the scheme, thereby simplifying main-tenance.
Further comparison of the approacheswill, however, require more detailed evaluationin use.Finally, we can consider the GeM approachas contrasted with directions within the XMLcommunity itself since there, too, there are pro-posals for capturing distinctions of content, lay-out (e.g., in terms of formatting objects: XSL-FO) and navigational elements (e.g., in terms ofXlink).
Whereas we are attempting to make theGeM description as compatible with these con-structs as possible?for example, as noted abovewith respect to the realizational possibilities forthe layout units?it is important to understandthe very different aims involved.
The purposeof the GeM project is to analyse the multimodaldecisions made in a wide range of documenttypes and it is not yet clear which theoreticallevels and which theoretical constructs withinthose levels will prove appropriate.
The format-ting object description is only suited to a certainclass of layout types (which excludes, for exam-ple, newspapers) and so is in many respects toospecific for our more exploratory purposes.
Weare also searching for effective levels of abstrac-tion at which to characterize our data: effectivehere meaning that these will be the constructsover which canvas constraints, production con-straints and consumption constraints are mostappropriately expressed.
Perhaps, to offer anNLP analogy: whereas the XML modelling de-cisions correspond to a fine-scaled phonetic de-scription of a language event, we are in theGeM project searching for the higher levels ofabstraction corresponding to the grammar, se-mantics and pragmatics of the language events.We expect this to give us a substantially bettertheoretical grasp of the meaning-making poten-tial of layout decisions and their control by ex-ternal constraints.5 Applications of the annotatedcorpusA number of uses are currently being made ofthe annotated GeM corpus.
While our empiri-cal study will need considerably more data to beencoded before we can make reliable statementsconcerning the patterning of various constraintswith document decisions, we have already beenstruck by the rather wide variation that existswithin single documents between selected lay-out structures on the one hand and rhetoricalorganization on the other.
In surprisingly manycases, this variation goes beyond what mightbe considered ?good?
design: in fact, we wouldargue that most such designs are flawed andwould be improved by a more explicit attentionto the rhetorical force communicated by partic-ular layout decisions.
This represents the use ofthe corpus for document critique and improve-ment (cf.
Delin and Bateman (2002)).We are also using the data gathered so far toinform the design of a prototype automatic doc-ument generation system capable of producingthe kinds of variation and layout forms seen inour corpus.
In this work, the annotation schemeprovides skeletal data structures that define tar-get formats of various stages of the generationprocess.
Thus, for example, layout planningneeds to produce a structure that is an instan-tiated version of a layout structure as we havedefined it above.
Some first results are reportedin Henschel et al (to appear) which describes aprototype implemented as a set of XSLT trans-formations that convert a content representa-tion into an XSL-FO document.
The transfor-mations are conditionalized so as to respond tovarious features of the content, the modes of theavailable material, and the rhetorical structure;so far pages generated include further examplesof the kind used as an example in this paper aswell as pages from instructional texts such astelephone user guides.Conditionalization is expressed in terms ofXPath specifications that check the presence orabsence of particular configurations within anyof the GeM annotation layers as required.
Suchspecifications are, however, somewhat cumber-some for more complex queries.
Whether fur-ther developments such as XQL or XQuery willbring benefits is not yet clear.
Somewhat dis-appointing was the unsuitability of the previousgeneration of linguistic-oriented corpus tools,which, despite considerable investment, seem tohave been outstripped by the very rapid devel-opments seen in the mainstream XML commu-nity.
Most of our current work is done directlywith XMLSpy and XLST tools such as Xalan.The final goal of our corpus collection workand the prototype document generation systemsis to place the commonly quoted aim of usingXML markup for document ?repurposing?
on asolid theoretical foundation.
Thus, for example,the ability automatically to generate very dif-ferent presentational forms for the instructionaltexts or bird pages mentioned above is an in-herent feature of the GeM model.
More impor-tant for us is to uncover as precisely as possi-ble the conditions which make certain presen-tational selections more appropriate than oth-ers.
In general, we relate the need for present-ing information in different forms to the kindsof constraints we introduced above: very differ-ent canvas constraints are imposed, for exam-ple, depending on whether the delivery mediumis across the telephone, on a palmtop, or as adisplay on a big screen.
However, it is not sim-ply a matter of the differing affordances of thedisplay device.
The selection of particular infor-mation and information display modes is also amatter of established document types.
Thesedocument types change over time, due both tochanging production constraints and to the es-tablishment of new genres.
It is not possible todeploy inappropriate realizations for establishedgenres; a newspaper that changed its presenta-tion style to that of birdbooks would quickly beout of business?and vice versa.
Mapping outthese possibilities and showing what larger pat-terns hold is then our eventual goal.
And forthis, extensive and detailed empirical studies ofthe kind we hope the GeM corpus and annota-tion scheme will support are crucial.ReferencesJohn A. Bateman, Thomas Kamps, Jo?rg Kleinz, andKlaus Reichenberger.
2001.
Constructive text, di-agram and layout generation for information pre-sentation: the DArtbiosystem.
ComputationalLinguistics, 27(3):409?449.Lynne Cahill, Roger Evans, Chris Mellis, DanielPaiva, Mike Reape, and Donia Scott.
2001.
Intro-duction to the RAGS architecture .
Available athttp://www.itri.brighton.ac.uk/projects/rags.Corpus Encoding Standard.
2000.
Corpus En-coding Standard.
Version 1.5.
Available at:http://www.cs.vassar.edu/CES.Judy L. Delin and John A. Bateman.
2002.
Describ-ing and critiquing multimodal documents.
Docu-ment Design, 3(2).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.Judy Delin, John Bateman, and Patrick Allen.
2002.A model of genre in document layout.
Informa-tion Design Journal.Patrick Durusau and Matthew Brook O?Donnell.submitted.
Implementing concurrent markup inXML.
Markup Languages: Theory and Practice.Renate Henschel, John Bateman, and Judy Delin.to appear.
Automatic genre-driven layout gener-ation.
In Proceedings of the 6.
Konferenz zur Ver-arbeitung natu?rlicher Sprache (KONVENS 2002),University of the Saarland, Saarbru?cken.Renate Henschel.
2002.
GeM annotation manual.Gem project report, University of Bremen andUniversity of Stirling, Bremen and Stirling.
Avail-able at http://purl.org/net/gem.Gunther Kress and Theo Van Leeuwen.
2001.
Mul-timodal discourse: the modes and media of con-temporary communication.
Arnold, London.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.
1988.Rhetorical structure theory: Toward a functionaltheory of text organization.
Text, 8(3):243?281.Henry S. Thompson and D. McKelvie.
1997.
Hyper-link semantics for standoff markup of read-onlydocuments.
In Proceedings of SGML Europe ?97.Robert Waller.
1987.
The typographical contributionto language: towards a model of typographic gen-res and their underlying structures.
Ph.D. thesis,Department of Typography and Graphic Commu-nication, University of Reading, Reading, U.K.
