Some Considerations on Guidelines forBilingual Alignment and Terminology ExtractionLawrence Cheung, Tom Lai, Robert Luk?, Oi Yee Kwong, King Kui Sin, Benjamin K. TsouLanguage Information Sciences Research CentreCity University of Hong KongTat Chee Avenue, Kowloon, Hong Kong{rlylc, cttomlai, rlolivia, ctsinkk, rlbtsou}@cityu.edu.hk?Department of ComputingHong Kong Polytechnic UniversityHung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kongcsrluk@comp.polyu.edu.hkAbstractDespite progress in the development ofcomputational means, human input is stillcritical in the production of consistent anduseable aligned corpora and term banks.
Thisis especially true for specialized corpora andterm banks whose end-users are oftenprofessionals with very stringentrequirements for accuracy, consistency andcoverage.
In the compilation of a high qualityChinese-English legal glossary for ELDoSproject, we have identified a number of issuesthat make the role human input critical forterm alignment and extraction.
They includethe identification of low frequency terms,paraphrastic expressions, discontinuous units,and maintaining consistent term granularity,etc.
Although manual intervention can moresatisfactorily address these issues, steps mustalso be taken to address intra- andinter-annotator inconsistency.Keyword: legal terminology, bilingualterminology, bilingual alignment,corpus-based linguistics1.
IntroductionMultilingual terminology is an importantlanguage resource for a range of natural languageprocessing tasks such as machine translation andcross-lingual information retrieval.
Thecompilation of multilingual terminology is oftentime-consuming and involves much manuallabour to be of practical use.
Aligning texts oftypologically different languages such as Chineseand English is even more challenging because ofthe significant differences in lexicon, syntax,semantics and styles.
The discussion in the paperis based on issues arising from the extraction ofbilingual legal terms from alignedChinese-English legal corpus in theimplementation of a bilingual a text retrievalsystem for the Judiciary of the Hong Kong SpecialAdministrative Region (HKSAR) Government.Much attention in computationalterminology has been directed to the developmentof algorithms for extraction from parallel texts.For example, Chinese-English (Wu and Xia 1995),Swedish-English-Polish (Borin 2000), andChinese-Korean (Huang and Choi 2000).
Despiteconsiderable progress, bilingual terminology sogenerated is often not ready for immediate andpractical use.
Machine extraction is often the firststep of terminology extraction and must be used inconjunction with rigorous and well-managedmanual efforts which are critical for theproduction of consistent and useable multilingualterminology.
However, there has been relativelylittle discussion on the significance of humanintervention.
The process is far from beingstraightforward because of the different purposesof alignment, the requirements of target users andthe corpus type.
Indeed, there remain manyproblematical issues that will not be easy to beresolved satisfactorily by computational means inthe near future, especially when typologicallydifferent languages are involved, and must requireconsiderable manual intervention.
Unfortunately,such critical manual input has often been treated asan obscure process.
As with other human cognitiveprocess (T?sou et al 1998), manual terminologymarkup is not a straightforward task and manyissues deserve closer investigation.In this paper, we will present somesignificant issues for Chinese-English alignmentand term extraction for the construction of abilingual legal glossary.
Section 2 describes thebackground of the associated bilingual alignmentproject.
Section 3 discusses the necessity ofmanual input in bilingual alignment, and someprinciples adopted in the project to address theseissues.
Section 4 provides an outline for furtherworks to improve terminology management,followed by a conclusion in Section 5.2.
High Quality Terminology Alignmentand Extraction2.1 Bilingual Legal Terminology in HongKongThe implementation of a bilingual legal system inHong Kong as a result of the return ofsovereignty to China in 1997 has given rise to aneed for the creation and standardization ofChinese legal terminology of the Common Lawon par with the English one.
The standardizationof legal terminology will not only facilitate themandated wider use of Chinese among legalprofessionals in various legal practices such astrials and production of legal documentationinvolving bilingual laws and judgments, but alsopromote greater consistency of semanticreference of terminology to minimize ambiguityand to avoid confusion of interpretation in legalargumentation.In the early 90?s, Hong Kong law draftersand legal translation experts undertook theunprecedented task of translating Hong KongLaws, which are based on the Common Lawsystem, from English into Chinese.
In theprocess, many new Chinese legal terms for theCommon Law were introduced.
On this basis, anEnglish-Chinese Glossary of legal terms and aChinese-English Glossary were published in 1995and 1999 respectively.
The legal terminology wasvetted by the high level Bilingual Laws AdvisoryCommittee (BLAC) of Hong Kong.
Theglossaries which contain about 30,000 basicentries have become an important reference forChinese legal terms in Hong Kong.
The BilingualLegal Information System (BLIS) developed bythe Department of Justice, HKSAR providessimple keyword search for the glossaries andlaws that are available in both Chinese andEnglish.
Nevertheless, the glossaries are far frombeing adequate for many different types of legaldocumentation, e.g.
contracts, court judgments,etc.
One major limitation of the BLIS glossary isits restricted coverage of legal terminology in theLaws of Hong Kong, within a basicallyprescriptive context as when the laws were studiedat the time of its promulgation.
There are otherimportant bilingual references (Li and Poon 1998,Yiu and Au-Yeung 1992, Yiu and Cheung 1996)which focus more on the translation of CommonLaw concepts.
These are almost exclusivelynominal expressions.In 2000, the City University of HongKong, in cooperation with the Judiciary, HKSAR,initiated a research project to develop a bilingualtext retrieval system, Electronic LegalDocumentation/Corpus System (ELDoS), which issupported by a bilingually aligned corpus ofjudgments.
The purpose of the on-going project istwofold.
First, the aligned legal corpus enables theretrieval of legal terms used in authentic contextswhere the essence and spirit of the laws are tested(and contested) in reality, explicated andelaborated on, as an integral part of the evolvingand defining body of important precedent casesunique to the Common Law tradition.
Second, thecorpus covers judgment texts involvinginterpretation of different language styles andvocabulary from Hong Kong laws.
The alignmentmarkup also serves as the basis for the compilationof a high-quality bilingual legal term bank.
Tocomplete the task within the tight timeframe, ateam of annotators highly trained in law andlanguage are involved in alignment markup andrelated editing.2.2 Need for Human InputThe legal professionals which are the target usersof ELDoS have very stringent demands onterminology in terms of accuracy, coverage andconsistency.
Aligned texts and extracted termsmust therefore be carefully and thoroughlyverified manually to minimize errors.Furthermore, many studies on terminologyalignment and extraction deal predominantly withnominal expressions.
Since the project aims toprovide comprehensive information on themanifestations of legal vocabulary in Chinese andEnglish texts, the retrieval system should notrestrict users to nominal expressions but shouldalso provide reference to many other phenomenasuch as alternation of part-of-speech (POS) (e.g.noun-verb alternation) inherent in bilingual texts,as will be seen in Section 3.The availability of bilingual corpora hasmade it possible to construct representative termbanks.
Nonetheless, current alignment and termextraction technology are still consideredinsufficient to meet the requirements for highquality terminology extraction.
In ELDoS project,many issues are difficult to be handledsatisfactorily by the computer in the foreseeablefuture.
Although human input is essential for highquality term bank construction, the practice ofmanual intervention is not straightforward.Indeed, the manual efforts to correct the errorscan be substantial, and the associated cost shouldnot be underestimated.
The annotator must firstgo through the entire texts to spot the errors andterms left out by the machines.
In this process,both the source and target materials have to beconsulted.
The annotator must also ensure theconsistency of the output.
As a result, guidelinesshould be set up to streamline the process.3.
Aspects of Terminology AlignmentThe approach adopted for the manual annotationof alignment markup and the maintenance of termbank in the ELDoS project will be described.Additional caution has been taken in thecoordination of a team of annotators.3.1 Term FrequencyAn important reason for manual intervention inbilingual term alignment is the relatively poorrecall rate for low frequency terms.
Manyextraction algorithms make use of statisticaltechniques to identify multi-word strings thatfrequently co-occur (Wu and Xia 1995; Kwongand Tsou 2001).
These methods are less effectivefor locating low frequency terms.
Of the 16,000terms extracted from ELDoS bilingual corpora,about 62% occur only once in about 80judgments.
For high quality alignment andextraction, failure to include these low frequencyterms would be totally unacceptable.3.2 Correspondence of Aligned UnitsBecause of the different grammatical requirementand language style, a term in the source languageoften differs in different ways from thecorresponding manifestations in the targetlanguage.
These differences could be alternationof POS and the use of paraphrastic expressions.Although many term banks avoid such variationsand focus primarily on equivalent nominals orverbs, the correspondence of terms between twotypologically different languages is often morecomplicated.
For example, the English nominal(?fulfilment?)
is more naturally translated intoChinese as a verb (?l?
?, ???
?
?, ????
).More examples can be found in Table 1.Alternation of POSEnglish  Chinese POS alternationThe accusedo+det + adj ~ nounhold*?verb ~ nounfulfillment?noun ~ verbadministration?Dnoun ~ verbrepudiationl?noun ~ neg + verbTable 1.
Alternation of POSIn some cases, there are simply no equivalentwords in the target language.
Paraphrasing orcircumlocution may be necessary.
Suchcorrespondence is far less consistent and obviousto be identified by the computer.Paraphrasing/CircumlocutionEnglish ChineseThe judge entered judgment infavour of the respondents inrespect of their claim for arrearsof wages, and severance payment.t?o31?2??KDI?
?9?In our view,?
z??a?
?evidenced by the Defendant'sletter ??7:+3?}???1$Ym??S??
?Table 2.
Examples of paraphrasingBecause of language differences, legal terms canbe contextually realized as anaphors in the targetlanguage.
Examples of such correspondencewould be useful for legal drafting and translation.Again, such anaphoric relations are moreaccurately handled by humans.Anaphoric RelationEnglish ChineseHe was subsequentlycharged?9?3??s?Liu JA dealt with thatapplication on 14 March1996 and dismissed it.B9?t?W??1996?3?14?A? ?-??9?
?Enforcement of aConvention award mayalso be refused if theaward is in respect of amatter which is not capableof settlement by arbitration.???*????1??"lh?X*?????M???N+??*?
?Table 3.
Examples of anaphors3.3 Discontinuous UnitsMost term extraction algorithms deal withcontiguous units, e.g.
n-gram.
These algorithmswould be problematical in handling discontinuousunits.
They include phrasal verbs (e.g.
?strikeout?
), collocation patterns (e.g.
?lodge threecomplaints?, ?o??|?E?).
These have tobe manually added or edited.
Interestingly, ourpreliminary study shows that over 90% of theinstances of discontinuous units are found in theChinese manifestation of English terms.
Someexamples are listed in Table 4.English Chineseconvict ?
o?
?|?EThe Court of Appealallowed the tenant's appealB9?X?
:?B9S4The agreement kept thecompany alive0?
?h[If the Defendantmisrepresented to thePlaintiff that what he wassigning was only?#?o+3Q?{:+3dB?}?1?
"?Table 4.
Examples of discontinuous units3.4 Selective MarkupTo avoid producing ?uninteresting?
termalignment, restricting markup to only terms of theinterested domain would be an attractivealternative to full-text alignment.
In the ELDoSproject, it is possible to mark up only legalterminology.
Other non-legal elements can beomitted in alignment annotation.
This approachhas been accepted by the ELDoS client.
Someexamples of legal and non-legal terms are shownin Table 5.Legal Terms Non-legal Terms1 alibievidencel?-????
?1 collar ?2 order nisi I1N?
2 finger ?3 prima facie d?
3 question 2Table 5.
Legal vs. Non-legal TermsHowever, many other terms are more ambiguous.There is often no hard and fast rule to set criteriafor domain membership.
Annotators would haveto rely on their own individual judgement todecide whether an expression should be countedas a legal term.
For example, the English wordslisted in Table 6 are not used exclusively in thelegal domain.
However, taking into account theirfrequency, legal context and the multiplerenditions in Chinese, they are worthy of beingconsidered as ?semi-legal.?
What is interestingabout ?I?
is that though the pronoun is a commonpronoun, the corresponding Chinese manifestation?!??
is used exclusively in the judgments andshould be regarded as legal.
These examplessuggest that the decision to classify a phrase as alegal term involves a great deal of complications.Semi-Legal Termsimpose+s, G@, ,  ?
@, ?sterms{2, {?, ?
?, ?s, ?waive?
?, , WI!
?Table 6.
Semi-legal TermsSelective markup, however, could giverise to intra- and inter-annotator inconsistency.The vagueness of legal terms could lead tovariation in the selection of the same term atdifferent times and among different annotators.
InELDoS project, computer-aided markup tools thatcan instantly check candidate expressions againstthe term bank is an effective reference forannotators to maintain consistency.
Those termsthat are found in term bank should be included inthe alignment.
In this way, the term bank can serveas a working standard for annotators.
As for newterms, our annotators have adopted the principlethat whenever they have doubts as to domainmembership of a new term, they should includethe term in the alignment.
In this way, all thecandidate terms are guaranteed to be available forthe term bank manager for final decision.Inter-annotator differences can also be reduced byfostering more communication among annotatorssuch as regular review of peer work.3.5 GranularityTerm granularity is another major issue not onlyfor machines but also for humans.
Theterminology list should be as simple and compactas possible to avoid redundancy of entries.
Forexample, instead of having ?allegations?,?corruption?, ?allegations of corruption?,?allegations of manslaughter?
as separate entries,it is preferable to treat only ?allegations?,?corruption?
and ?manslaughter?
as glossaryentries.
The annotators have adopted the principlethat a term should be a minimal semantic unit.Here ?semantic unit?
refers to single- ormulti-word terms that have acquired specializedmeaning or usage.
For example, the phrase ?greatand general importance?
?U????
hasbeen used ????
as a frozen chunk, and shouldnot be further divided into ?great?, ?and?,?general?
and  ?importance?.
Similarly, ?oraldecision?Qp2refers to the verbal deliveryof judgments in trial as opposed to writtenjudgments.
Such decisions involve the support ofreal-world knowledge and sophisticatedsemantic/pragmatic interpretation and are noteasily modelled by the computer.4.
Further WorksBilingual terminology extracted directly from thebilingual corpora bear the form as it is in the textcorpora.
English words with differentmorphological markers will give rise to multipleentries in the resulting glossary.
However, fromthe user?s point of view, verbs with the same rootbut different inflectional markers (e.g.
?hold?,?held?, ?holding?)
should be combined to formone single entry.
Similarly, variants of Chineseexpressions that differ simply by an optionalmarkers1de (see Table 7) may better be treatedas the same item to minimize redundancy.English Chineselawful attorney 1.
}9?3 2.
}19?3order nisi 1.
I?N?
2.
I?1N?presumption in law 1.
?B?s 2.
?B1?sTable 7.
Chinese renditions differed by1deTerm bank management tools will be developedto process the morphological markers andcombine related pairs.5.
ConclusionIn this paper, we have studied the importance ofhuman intervention in the preparation of alignedcorpus and bilingual terminology, particularlywhen the specialized language resource and usersare involved.
Their demand for high qualityalignment and terminology gives rise to a numberof issues that are difficult, if not impossible, to bedealt with satisfactorily by the computer.
Theseissues include the extraction of low frequencyterms, the identification of equivalent units withdifferent POS or paraphrases, discontinuous units,consistency of term granularity, etc.
Thoughhuman intervention is far more effective inattaining accurate linguistic processing, if notproperly planned, it could also suffer from intra-and inter-annotator inconsistency.
Regular peerreview and appropriate markup checking tools willbe essential to minimize inconsistency.AcknowledgementsThis study is supported through the Hong KongJudiciary contract (#RCL/0794) and the ResearchGrants Council of Hong Kong under CompetitiveEarmarked Research Grant (CERG) No.
9040570.We specially thank the Judiciary of HKSAR forproviding authentic judgments for this study.
Ourthanks also go to the team of alignment annotatorswho provided interesting examples for this paper.ReferencesBorin, L. (2000) You ?ll Take the High Road and I?llTake the Low Road: Using a Third Language toImprove Bilingual Word Alignment.
Proceedings ofCOLING 2000, pp.
97?103.Huang, J.-X.
and K.-S. Choi.
(2000) Chinese-KoreanWord Alignment Based on Linguistic Comparison.Proceedings of the 38th Annual Conference of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, pp.392?399.Kwong, O. Y. and B. K. Tsou.
(2001) AutomaticCorpus-Based Extraction of Chinese Legal Terms.Proceedings of the 6th Natural Language ProcessingPacific Rim Symposium (NLPRS 2001), pp 669?676,Tokyo, Japan.Li, Z. E. and E. Poon.
(1998) English-ChineseDictionary of Law.
Hong Kong: Commercial Press.T'sou, B. K., H. L. Lin, S. W. K. Chan and T. B.
Y.
(1998) "Cognitive Variation in Cross StraitsPerception of Salient Information", in B. K. T'sou, T.B.
Y. Lai, S. W. K. Chan and W. S-Y.
Wang (Eds.
),Quantitative and Computational Studies on theChinese Language, Language Information SciencesResearch Centre, City University of Hong Kong,pp.31-56.Wu, D. and X. Xia.
(1995) Large-scale AutomaticExtraction of an English-Chinese TranslationLexicon.
Machine Translation 9 (3-4): 285?313.Yiu, T.-W. and Z.-Q.
Zhang.
(1996) English-ChineseDictionary of Commercial Law.
Hong Kong:Commercial Press.Yiu, T.-W. and P.-K. Au-Yeung.
(1992) A Glossary ofLaw for Hong Kong.
Hong Kong: Commercial Press.
