Design of Chinese Morphological AnalyzerHuihsin TsengInstitute of Information ScienceAcademia Sinica, Taipeikaori@hp.iis.sinica.edu.twKeh-Jiann ChenInstitute of Information ScienceAcademia Sinica, Taipeikchen@iis.sinica.edu.twAbstractThis is a pilot study which aims at the design of aChinese morphological analyzer which is in stateto predict the syntactic and semantic properties ofnominal, verbal and adjectival compounds.Morphological structures of compound wordscontain the essential information of knowing theirsyntactic and semantic characteristics.
Inparticular, morphological analysis is a primarystep for predicting the syntactic and semanticcategories of out-of-vocabulary (unknown) words.The designed Chinese morphological analyzercontains three major functions, 1) to segment aword into a sequence of morphemes, 2) to tag thepart-of-speech of those morphemes, and 3) toidentify the morpho-syntactic relation betweenmorphemes.
We propose a method of usingassociative strength among morphemes,morpho-syntactic patterns, and syntacticcategories to solve the ambiguities ofsegmentation and part-of-speech.
In ourevaluation report, it is found that the accuracy ofour analyzer is 81%.
5% errors are caused by thesegmentation and 14% errors are due topart-of-speech.
Once the internal information of acompound is known, it would be beneficial for thefurther researches of the prediction of a wordmeaning and its function.1.
IntroductionThis is the first attempt to design a morphologicalanalyzer to automatically analyze themorphological structures of Chinese compoundwords1.
Morphological structures of compoundwords contain the essential information ofknowing their syntactic and semanticcharacteristics.
In particular, morphologicalanalysis is a primary step for predicting thesyntactic and semantic categories ofout-of-vocabulary (unknown) words.
Theexistence of unknown words is a major obstacle inChinese natural language processing.
Due to the1 Compound words here include compounds intraditional Chinese linguistics and morphologicalcomplex words.fact that new words are easily coined bymorphemes in Chinese text, the number ofunknown words is increasingly large.
As a result,we cannot collect all the unknown words andmanually mark their syntactic categories andmeanings.
Our hypothesis to predict the categoryand the meaning of a word is basically based onFrege?s principle: ?The meaning of the whole is afunction of the meanings of the parts?.
Themeanings of morphemes are supposed to make upthe meanings of the words.
However, some wordslike idioms and proper nouns cannot be includedin the principle.
In general, unknown words couldbe divided into two different types: the type thathas the property of semantic transparency, i.e.
thewords whose meanings can be derived from theirmorphemes and the type without meaningtransparency, such as proper nouns.
In this paperwe are dealing with the compound words withsemantic transparency only.
For the type ofcompounds without semantic transparency, suchas proper nouns, their morphemes andmorphological structures do not provide usefulinformation for predicting their syntactic andsemantic categories.
Therefore they are processeddifferently and independently.
In addition, someregular types of compounds, such as numbers,dates, and determinant-measure compounds, areeasily analyzed by matching their morphologicalstructures with their regular expression grammarsand the result can be used to predict their syntacticand semantic properties, so they will be handledby matching regular expressions at the stage ofword segmentation.
According to our observation,most Chinese compounds have semantictransparency except proper nouns, which meansthe meaning of an unknown word can beinterpreted by their own morpheme components.The design of our morphological analyzer willfocus on processing these compounds, but wordswithout semantic transparency are excluded.
Ittakes a compound word as input and produces themorphological structure of the word.
The majorfunctions are 1) to segment a word into a sequenceof morphemes, 2) to tag the part-of-speech ofthose morphemes, and 3) to identify themorpho-syntactic relation between morphemes.Once the morpho-syntactic structure of acompound is known, the head morpheme providesthe major clue for determining its syntactic andsemantic category.It seems that a Chinese morphological analyzer issimilar to a tagging program.
Indeed both systemshave to resolve the segmentation and taggingambiguities.
However the major difference is thatthe morphological analyzer does not havecontextual information of each target word.
Inother words, morphological structures ofcompounds are context independent.
We cannotapply the same methods, such as n-gram languagemodels, to resolve the ambiguities.
We proposed amethod of using the associative strength amongmorphemes, morpho-syntactic patterns, andsyntactic categories to solve the ambiguities.Detail algorithms for morpheme segmentation,part-of-speech, and morpho-syntactic relationassignment are discussed in Section 2.
In the finalsection, we will evaluate the morphologicalanalyzer by comparing its results with thoseobtained from the analyses of 5 linguists anddiscussing the categorization of errors found.2.
The Morphological AnalyzerThe morphological analyzer contains threefunctions: to segment a word, to tag thepart-of-speech (POS) of morphemes, and toidentify the relation between them.2.1 SegmentationThe goal of this process is to segment a compoundword into a sequence of morphemes.
Since thereare ambiguous segmentations, simple dictionarylook-up methods may not work well.
For instance,the compound of meiguoren (???)
could beambiguously segmented into either mei-guoren([?[??]]
beautiful countryman) or meiguo-ren([[ ?
? ]
? ]
American people), but onlymeiguo-ren ([[??]?]
American-people) is theproper segmentation.
The left-to-right longestmatching method is commonly applied to segmenteither words or text.
It works well, but there arestill some small percent of compound words thatcannot be properly segmented by such a simplealgorithm.
For instance, the word xin-shenghuo([?[??]]
new life) will be segmented wronglyinto xinsheng-huo ([[??]?]
the life of a newstudent) without considering the priority ofsegmenting the affix xin (?
new) first.
Inparticular, words with multi-syllabic suffixes andwords with reduplication constructions commonlycause segmentation errors.
Those special types ofwords should be analyzed with other methods.2.1.1 Affixes and reduplicationIn order to remedy the segmentation error causedby the left-to-right longest matching, we observethe results of the algorithm and find that there aretwo useful clues to avoid segmentation errors, i.e.the information of affix and reduplication.A word of a reduplication pattern cannot and neednot be segmented by the longest left-to-rightmethod, since it has special morphologicalstructures and the reduplication patterns bringenough clues of knowing the syntactic functionsof the word.
Therefore we try to identify wordsthat belong to reduplication patterns first.
Ingeneral they fall into the following two types ofpatterns: reduplications and parallel words.
Words,which do not conform to these patterns, will besegmented later.Table 1 Special types of patterns and their examplesPatterns Pattern Maker Note and examplesReduplicationwordAA,AAA, ABB, AAB,AxA, ABABAABB, AxAy,xByB,liang-liang (??
), dui-dui-dui(???
), song-kua-kua (???
),chi-chi-kan (???
),xiang-yi-xiang (???).yan-jiu-yan-jiu(????),chi-chi-he-he(????),pao-shang-pao-xia(????),yi-nian-zai-nian(????
)Parallel word A-BC (AC, BC)  zhong-xiao-xue (???
)Reduplication means to duplicate the one or twocharacter words into multi-character words.
Allreduplication patterns we used are listed in Table 1.If a word belongs to a reduplication pattern, themeaning of the word doesn?t change too much.The reduplication word?s category can bepredicted by their patterns.
For example, when Bis not a noun, a word which belongs to the patternAAB is intransitive verb.
The category of a wordthat belongs to the pattern of ?parallel word?
isalways a noun.
The characteristic of parallelwords is that both AC and BC are words withshared head word C.At the next step of the morpheme segmentation,we will consider the compounds with affixes.
Themost productive compound construction is thestructure of a morpheme plus an affix.
Hence afterthe affix is identified, it would be easier tosegment a word into two parts.
The segmentationalgorithm works as follows.
A word is segmentedimmediately only if a prefix, infix or suffixmorpheme is found.
The affix table contains 186prefixes, 2 infixes and 648 suffixes.
Some affixesof the table are multi-syllabic.
To segment an affixwith higher priority will resolve most of the errorscaused by the left-to-right longest matchingalgorithm.
For instance, if tiaoshangqu (??
?to jump up) is segmented by the left-to-rightlongest matching method, and the result of thesegmentation is tiaoshang-qu.
The left-to-rightlongest matching method might cause errorsegmentation here.
However, shangqu is one ofthe suffixes in the affix table, so in ourmorphological analyzer it would be segmented astiao-shangqu.
A word containing an infix is alsonot suitable for the general segmentation and itwould be segmented into single character.
Thereare some affixes examples in Table 2:Table2 Types of affixes and their examplesTypes of affix Morpheme ExamplesPrefix xin(?)
xinsheng-huo (???
)Infix de(?)
suan-de-shang(???
)Suffix ju(?
)shangqu (??)feizao-ju(???
)tiao-shangqu (???
)2.1.2 Left-to-right longest matchingIf a word is neither reduplication nor a compoundwith an affix, it should be segmented from left toright with longest matching.
This general methodcan segment words into morphemes and alsoprovide a possible part-of-speech of eachmorpheme by looking it up in the morphemedictionary.2.2 TaggingThe work here is to provide the part-of-speech foreach morpheme and identify a morpho-syntacticrelation between two morphemes based on theinformation of segmentation and their pos.
This isthe most difficult part of morphological analysis.In achieving the goal, we face two obstacles: theinformation insufficiency of morpheme categoriesand morphemes with the multiple categories.Since morpheme categories are not the same asword categories, it is necessary to assign eachmorpheme with appropriate categories and tocompile a morpheme dictionary.
Once themorpheme dictionary is built, the remaining job isto resolve the part-of-speech ambiguities of eachmorpheme.
Since the part-of-speech of themorpheme is independent of its word level context,we cannot apply n-gram like language models toresolve part-of-speech ambiguity of morphemes.Even worse, there is no structure tagging trainingdata available either.
An EM-like unsupervisedtraining on part-of-speech morphologicalstructures is also not a sensible solution, sincemorpho-syntactic structure is more sensitive to thesemantic combination than the syntacticcombination of morphemes.
Therefore we proposea method of using morphemes to predict thepossible syntactic categories of the targetcompound word and selecting the most probableconsistent result among the candidates ofpart-of-speech structures and the predictedcategories.2.2.1 Preparation of the morphemedictionaryBefore we start to tag morphemes, two steps arecarried out to resolve the obstacles.
That is thelack for a morpheme dictionary and morphemeambiguity.
First, in order to resolve the lack formorpheme categories, it is necessary to edit anaffix table, as mentioned in Section 2.1, whichcontains prefixes, infixes, suffixes and theircategories.
Most frequently encountered 186prefixes and 648 suffixes are listed in this table.Basically, if its morpheme has more than 2characters, we adopt its categories in the CKIPDictionary.
Conversely, if it has fewer than 2characters and it functions as a prefix or a suffix,we use the categories in the affix table.Below we illustrate two examples to explain theneed of morpheme categories.
Both words yu (?to speak) and wu (?
to dance) are verbs.However they could also function as morphemes.When they function as morphemes, they are listedas nouns in their category.
It is worth noticing thatthe categories of a morpheme are not the same asthose of a word, even if they are in the same form.Therefore, it is important to assign morphemescategories properly.Table 3 The categories of ?yu and ?wu as a suffix and as a word andtheir examplesSuffix Category 2  as asuffixCategory as awordExample-yu(?)
Na VE ying-yu(??),de-yu(??)-wu(?)
Na VC, Na jueshi-wu(???
)2 The category symbols here are based on CKIP(1993).The meaning of each category we adopt here is asfollowing: A(non-predicative adjective), Na(commonnoun), Nb(proper noun), Nc(location noun), Nd(timenoun), VA(active intransitive verb), VB(semi-transitiveverb), VC(active transitive verb), VCL(active transitiveverb with locative object), VD(ditransitive verb),VE(active transitive verb with sentential object),VG(classificatory verb), VH(stative intransitive verb),VHC(stative causative verb), VJ(stative transitive verb)and so on.Second, in order to resolve the problem ofmorpheme ambiguity, we need a list ofprobabilities which contains all the possiblecombinations of categorical rules and theirprobabilities.
For instance, in the list theprobability P(Na+Na|Na) = 0.4692 means that thecategorical rule of combining two common nouns(Na+Na) to form a common noun (Na) has theprobability 0.4692.
The probability values of eachcategorical rule were estimated from the set of11,322 unknown words extracted from SinicaCorpus 3.0.
The syntactic category of eachextracted word is known but its structureannotation is unknown.
Therefore the probabilityof each categorical rule is roughly estimated byassuming that every ambiguous categoricalcombination of a word have equal probability.The process of computing the possibility of acombination is as follows:1) We assign morphemes in a word with all theirpossible categories found in the dictionary and theaffix table; for example, sheyingzhan ([[??]?
]photography exhibition), which belongs to Nacategory means ?photography exhibition?.Sheyingzhan could be segmented as sheying (?
?photography) and zhan (?
exhibition).
Aftersegmentation, we found sheying with thecategories Na and VA, and zhan with the categoryNa.
The possible combinations of sheying-zhanare ?Na+Na->Na?
and ?VA+Na->Na?.
However,we don?t know which one is correct, so wepresumably assign a frequency of 0.5 to eachcombination.2) After we assign morphemes their categories andfrequencies, we add up the frequencies ofidentical combinations.
A list containing possiblecategorical rules and their probabilities is thenestablished.
Table 4 shows a part of thecategorical rules of VHC.Table 4 A partial list of categorical rules and their probabilitiesRule Category ProbabilitiesNa+VHC VHC 0.4494VH+VHC VHC 0.2303Nc+VHC VHC 0.0674VHC+VHC VHC 0.0449VA+VH VHC 0.0280VC+VHC VHC 0.0224VJ+VH VHC 0.0224Nd+VHC VHC 0.0112VC+Na VHC 0.0112VC+VC VHC 0.0112VC+VHC VHC 0.01122.2.2 Part-of-speechOnce the affix table and the list of categoricalrules are prepared, we can tackle the problems ofthe obstacles we mentioned in the beginning.After morpheme segmentation, each morpheme isassigned with their proper categories according tothe morpheme dictionary and the affix table.However, morphemes might be ambiguous, so ifthe category of the target word is known, the mostprobable part-of-speech combination is chosenbased on the list of categorical rules.
However inthe real implementation, it is assumed that thesyntactic category of a target word is not known.The method mentioned above would not work,unless its syntactic category can be predicted.
Inour implementation, we adopted the methodproposed by Chen, Bai and Chen (1997), by usingthe association strength between morphemes andcategories to predict the syntactic categories oftarget words.
By using the mutual informationbetween affixes and categories, the top oneprediction has the accuracy of 67.00% and the topthree accuracy of the prediction can reach about94.02%.
We will then check the consistencybetween predicted the categories and theirmorpho-syntactic structures to make the finaljudgments on both the word category predictionand the morpheme category disambiguation.The final prediction is based on the maximal valueof the combined probabilities of the categoryprediction and the categorical rule prediction.Since P(Rule|compound) = P(Cat|compound) *P(Rule|Cat, compound) ?
P(Cat|compound) *P(Rule|Cat), we try to find Cat and Rule whichmaximizes P(Cati|compound) * P(Rulej|Cati), forall Cati and Rulej.
The following is an exampleof .she-ying-zhan.====================================sheying-zhan (???
photography exhibition)P(Na|sheying-zhan) *P(Na+Na|Na)= 0.6324*0.4692=0.2967---maxP(Na|sheying-zhan) * P(VA+Na|Na)=0.6324 *0.0865=0.0547P(VC|sheying-zhan)* P(Na+Na|VC)=0.3675* 0.0069=0.0025P(VC|sheying-zhan)*P(VA+Na|VC)= 0.3675* 0.001=0.0003sheying-zhan=(Na+Na)->Na====================================The top1 accuracy of the original categoryprediction for unknown words is 67% by mutualinformation, but after the combination of themorphological analyzer, the accuracy of the wordcategory prediction is raised to 71%.
This isbecause the morphological analyzer will check ifthe categorical combination in a word is in itsproper category.
Therefore, when the originalunknown word prediction system predicts a wordin a category which the morphological analyzerfinds the probability of its categorical combinationin the category low, the morphological analyzermight reject the category and suggest theunknown word prediction system to choose thenext highest-scoring category in which thecategorical combination has higher probability.In the case that the syntactic category of thecompound word is known, we will letP(Cat|compound) = 1 and the most probablepart-of-speech combination will simply be thecategorical rule Rulej such that P(Rulej|Cat) ismaximized.2.2.3 Morpho-syntactic relation betweenmorphemesOnce the information of segmentation andpart-of-speech is ready, the morpho-syntacticrelation between morphemes can be identified.According to Chao (1968) and Li&Thompson(1981), there are relations between morphemes incompounds such as ?modifier-hear?, ?predicateobject?
and so on.
The purpose of knowingmorpho-syntactic relation between morphemes isto help decide the meaning of the target word.
Themorpho-syntactic relation between morphemes isgrouped into the types listed in Table 5.
Generally,the relation between morphemes is highly relatedto the category of an unknown word.
So therelation we assign to morphemes must be basedon the category of the word.
When the unknownword is a noun, the relation between itsmorphemes is ?modifier-head?.
If it?s a verb, itwill be more complicated.
There are five relationtypes in verbs.
The first one is ?verb-object?, suchas chifan (??
to eat rice).
The first morphememust be a transitive one and the second one shouldbe a noun.
The second type of the relation is?modifier-head?, and it means the secondmorpheme is the semantic head of the word.
Thethird type is ?resultative verb?.
The secondmorpheme in this type?s word always expressesthe result of the action.
The forth type is?head-suffix?.
The appearance of the suffixchanges the augment structure of the head verb,but the representing event remains the same.These suffixes are ru (?
to be similar to), yu (?by), wei (?
to become), gei (?
to give), chu (?to exit) and cheng (?
to become).
The fifth typeof the relation is ?modifier-head?, and there isonly a morpheme hua (?
to transform) whichbelongs to this type.
Hua is the head of a word.
Ifa non-predicative adjective is an adjective, thereare two kinds of structure.
First, anon-predicative adjective has the same structureas a noun.
The relation between its morphemes isalso called ?modifier-head?.
Second, the relationbetween morphemes for a non-predicativeadjective which cannot be in the predicateposition but has verbs structures can be?predicate-object?
or ?modifier head?.
Thisinformation will be helpful for predicting the coremeaning of a new word.Table 5 The morpho-syntactic relation between morphemesThe morpho-syntactic relation betweenmorphemesNoun Modifier-headVerb Verb-objectModifier-headResultative Verb (RVC)Head-suffixModifier-head(suffix)Adjective An: Modifier-headAv: verb-object, and modifier-headOther directional RVC and reduplicationOnce the morpho-syntactic structure of acompound is identified, the head morphemeprovides the major clue for determining itssyntactic and semantic category.
The compoundword will inherit from the semantic and syntacticproperty of its head and the information will bebeneficial for the semantic and syntacticcategorization of new compound words in thefuture.3.
Evaluation and DiscussionThe major functions of the morphologicalanalyzer are to segment a word into a sequence ofmorphemes, to tag the part-of-speech of themorphemes, and to identify the morpho-syntacticrelation between morphemes.
The work in thissection is to evaluate the quality of the wordinformation which is processed by each functionof the morphological analyzer.
However, it is hardto evaluate the accuracy of the morphologicalanalyzer automatically, so we compare the resultsgenerated by the morphological analyzer withresults generated by human experts, which aremade out of their language intuition.
The answersagreed by the majority of the human experts areassumed to be the right answers.
The closer theresults of the morphological analyzer are to thehuman experts, the more accurate themorphological analyzer is.The testing data is the set of unknown wordsextracted from the recently collected text by thesystem of Ma, Hsieh, Yang and Chen (2001).There is total 4,566 unknown words in our testingdata.
However, the validity of the morphologicalinformation is still uncertain; therefore fivelinguistic specialists have to manually verify themorphological structure of unknown words byfilling out the survey.
First, we randomly select100 words as a testing set and the following threequestions are answered by these five specialists.1) What's the category of the unknown word?2) What are the morpheme segmentations ofthe testing words?3) What is the syntactic tag of each morpheme?The definition of our "standard answer" is theanswer the majority of the subjects give.
Forexample, if three out of the five subjects considerthe category of an unknown word X as VG, thestandard answer of X would be VG.
If fivesubjects think unknown word X belongs to fivedifferent categories, we would ask one morelanguage specialist for opinions to determine thecategory of this unknown word.
The standardanswer we obtained from this survey will be thestandard answer of the morphological analyzer.The morphological analyzer contains threefunctions: to segment a word into morphemes, totag pos, and to identify the relation betweenmorphemes.
The accuracy we mention here is theresult from comparing the morphological resultwith the majority answer.=================================================T=the total number of test setR=the total number of being the same with the ?Standard answer?
ofXX=Subject1, Subject2, Subject3, Subject4, Subject5, MorphologicalAnalyzerAccuracy(X)= R(X)/T=================================================Table 6 The accuracy of five subjects and morphological analyzer(MA)S 1 S 2 S 3 S 4 S 5 Average of 5 Ss MAAccuracy 89% 94% 94% 86% 83% 89.2% 81%After comparing the result of the morphologicalanalyzer with the standard answers obtained fromthe five linguists, we come to the conclusion thatthe accuracy of the morphological analyzer is 81%.Out of all the errors, 5% is caused bysegmentation on proper nouns and loanwords,such as bilinshan (???
a name of a mountain),dingwan (??
a name of a place), yanyou (?
?a name of a dynasty), maniuda (???
a name ofa place), and hongburang (???
home run).These words cannot be segmented because theyonly make sense when they are treated as a unit.The remaining 14% is caused in the taggingprocess produced by a morpheme table whichlacks in accuracy.
For example, in some cases thesuffix zhou (?
week) is supposed to be listed asNd but is instead listed as Nc.
Next, there are noproper categories for certain morphemes, such asthe morpheme lie (?
to list as a verb, a row as anoun) in the word qinglie (??).
In the suffixtable, the category of lie is only Na, but themorpheme lie should have a VC category whenthe meaning of qinglie "to list completely" isadopted.
Another possible error-causing factorwould be the choice made by following thecombination rule.
When there is more than onepossible combination, errors might appear.
Forexample, there are two possible combination forwaizhan (??
to stretch out), ?Ng+Na?
and?Ng+VC?.
Comparing the score of the twocombinations, the combination of ?Ng+Na?
ischosen.
However, it is not the correct category ofzhan (?
to stretch).The best way to resolve these problems mentionedabove is to revise the morpheme table more often.Since the category of the suffix and prefix is fixed,it might cause a reduction in morpheme ambiguity.We are also interested in the similarity (or therange of agreement with language intuition ofeach individual) between those subjects.
Since thestandard answers are the answer of the majority,we can compare the standard answer with eachindividual.
The average rate of the similarity rateis 89.2%.
The ten-percentage puzzle might be dueto the ambiguity of the word and can beinterpreted that there are indeed some words thatare not only difficult for a machine to analyze butalso difficult for human beings to categorize.Table 7 The error rate and examplesPercent-age Exampleshongburang(???
), maniuda(???)SegmentationError5%yanyou(??
), dingwan(??
),bilinshan (???
)Tagging Error 14% mihou(??)
tao(?)(Nc),zixun(??)
zhou(?)(Nc),wai(?)
zhan(?
)(Na,VC)The evaluation of the identification of themorpho-syntactic relation is separated from theevaluation of segmentation and tagging, becausethe relation between morphemes is identifiedbased on previous information, such as thecategory of a word, segmentation, and the pos.Once the essential information is clear, themorpho-syntactic relation is known.
Nine out of ahundred examples are marked by linguists aserrors of the morpho-syntactic identifier.Furthermore, the reasons causing the error ofrelation identification are 1) the categorypredication?s error, 2) the part-of-speech error, and3) the lack of the relation type.
Firstly, since therelation identifier is based on the result of thesegmentation and pos, it is understandable that theerror here is caused by previous functions.
Thecategory of qipai-jia ([[??]?]
initial biddingprice) is Na, but the system predicts it as anintransitive verb VA.
So the identifier guesses therelation between qipai and jia as ?verb-object?based on the previous information.
The error ofthe category prediction system might result inerrors of the relation identifier.
Secondly, therelation of qing-lie (??
to clearly list) should be?modifier-head?, but the identifier marks it as?verb-object?
relation because lie(?)
is tagged asNa.
When the suffix is a Na, the prefix is a verb,and since the category of qing-lie is predicted as averb, the identifier can only predict the relation ofqing-lie as ?Verb-object?.
Therefore, the error ofpart-of-speech might cause the identifier errors.Thirdly, the linguists suggest the relation betweenmorphemes in nian-song (??
to read) is?conjunction relation?.
That means that both thesemantic meaning and syntactic function of nian(?
to read) and song (?
to read) are the same.However, we don?t have the ?conjunctionrelation?, because we think the number of wordswhich belong to the kind of the relation is verylimited, and since both morphemes the bring sameinformation, there is no difference that enables usto mark both of them as heads or only one of themas a head for the application of predicating thesemantic and syntactic property of a word.Therefore, in the morphological analyzer thewords which belong to the ?conjunction?
relationare identified as ?head-final?
relations.4.
Conclusion and future workThis is a pilot study to design a morphologicalanalyzer to analyze the morphological structuresof Chinese compound words automatically.
Themajor functions are 1) to segment a word into asequence of morphemes, 2) to tag thepart-of-speech of those morphemes, and 3) toidentify the morpho-syntactic relation betweenmorphemes.
We evaluate the morphologicalanalyzer by comparing 5 linguists?
research resultsand discuss the type of errors we find.
The moresimilar the results of the morphological analyzercompared with the human results, the better themorphological analyzer is.
It is found that theaccuracy of our analyzer is 81%.
In comparisonwith the performance of human experts resultingin an accuracy of 89%, the performance of thecurrent morphological analyzer is not bad, but stillhas room for improvement.
More, the types andthe identification of relations of morphemes stillhave much room to be improved.
It is also worthnoticing that the syntactic category prediction forgeneral compounds can also be improved by themorphological analyzer.
Once the internalinformation of a compound is known, it canprovide clues for prediction of a word meaningand its function.
The prediction of a word?smeaning is very hard and will be one of the mainthemes in our future researches.5 ReferenceBosch, Antal van den, Walter Daelemans and TonWeijters.
(1996) Morphological AnalysisClassification: an Inductive-Learning Approach.NeMLaP.Chao, Yuen Ren.
(1968) A grammar of spoken Chinese.Berkeley:University of California Press.Chen, Chao-jan, Ming-hung Bai and Keh-jiann Chen.
(1997) Category Guessing for Chinese UnknownWords.
Proceedings of the Natural LanguageProcessing Pacific Rim Symposium 1997, 35-40.Chen Yun-chai.
(2001) Corpus Analysis ofReduplication in Mandarin Chinese.
NationalKaohsiung Normal University: English Department.CKIP.
(1993) Technical Report no.
93-05: The analysisof Chinese category.
[??????]
CKIP:NankangCreutz, Mathias and Krista Lagus.
(2002)Unsupervised Discovery of Morphemes.
Proceedingsof Morphological and Phonological LearningWorkshop of ACL'02.Beaney, Michael.
(editor) (1997) The Frege Reader.Oxfort: Blackwell.Li, Charles and Sandra A. Thompson.
(1981) MandarinChinese.
Berkeley: University of California Press.Ma, Weiyun, Youming Hsieh, Changhua Yang, andKeh-jiann Chen.
(2001) ?Chinese CorpusDevelopment and Management System ?
[??????????????].
Proceedings of Researchon Computational Linguistics Conference XIV,175-191.
