A MORPHOLOGICAL, SYNTACTIC AND SEMANTICSEARCH ENGINE  FOR  HEBREW TEXTS.UZZI  ORNANVisiting Professor, Computer Science, Technion ?
I.I.T.Scientific Director, Multitext, Multidimensional Publishing Systemsornan@cs.technion.ac.il,  uornan@actcom.net.ilAbstractThis article describes the constructionof a morphological, syntactic and semanticanalyzer to operate a high-grade searchengine for Hebrew texts.
A good searchengine must be complete  and accurate.
InHebrew or Arabic script most of thevowels are not written, many particles areattached to the word without space, adouble consonant is written with oneletter, and some letters signify both vowelsand consonants.
Thus, almost every stringof characters may designate many words(the average in Hebrew is almost threewords).
As a consequence, deciphering aword necessitates reading the wholesentence.
Our model is Fillmore?sframework of an expression with a verb asits center.
The engine eliminates readingsof words unsuited to the syntax or thesemantic structure of the sentence.
Inevery verbal entry of our conceptualdictionary the features of the noun phrases(NP?s)  required by the verb are included.When all the correct readings of all thestrings of characters in the sentence havebeen identified, the program chooses theproper occurrences of the searched wordin the text.
Approximately 95% of theresults by our search engine match thosein the query.1.IntroductionIt is easy to construct a search engine that,in a given text, will find all theoccurrences of the string of charactersspecified in the query.
In Hebrew script,however, the string of characters thatmakes up a word may also be interpretedas designating other words.
Almost everyword in Hebrew script can be read as oneof an average of three words.
This isbecause Hebrew script is fundamentallydefective: (1) Most vowels in a givenword have no sign in the script.
(2)Particles are attached with no interveningspace to the string of characters that makesup the following word.
(3) A geminatedconsonant is written as one letter, like anot-geminated consonant.
(4) Severalletters serve as both vowels andconsonants.
Threfore, it is impossible toidentify the word stated in the query by itsform: if we try to do so, we would obtainall the occurrences which are written inthe same way but are, in fact, differentwords.
Since only 20-30% of the words soobtained are actually occurrences of therequired word, the users have to checkevery word in the result obtained in orderto decide whether it is actually the onethey want.1  In order to solve this problem,some systems recommend that everyquery should contain some other wordsthat are often found close to the stipulatedword.2 But such a search may lead to aloss of important occurrences of therequired word.
Neither a frequency list ofwords nor another statistical device can bean ultimate answer in our search ofaccurate and full device.
A  statisticalapproach ensures that some mistakes or1 This happened in the case of the programs ofPador, Taqdin, Dinim and others, who offer asearch engine for legal texts.
It is well knownthat many lawyers have stopped using them,and prefer to conduct a manual search.2   For example, the Contahal companysuggested conducting a cross-check.omissions will always exist.
Also,eliminating certain readings by anexamination of the words in the shortcontext will not ensure completeness, norwill it ensure accuracy, since a largenumber of the strings that appear in theresult will not be relevant to the question.
(Choueka and Lusignan, 1985; Choueka,1990).
We can obtain a correct reading ofa word only if we can make a correctreading of the whole sentence.
In order todo this, we must eliminate all theunsuitable readings of every string ofcharacters in the sentence, and leave onlyone reading.
To this end, we had to gothrough the following stages:1.
First, we adopted a phonemic script, amethod of writing Hebrew in Latincharacters, in which each vowel has itscharacter, the particles are separatedfrom the following word, geminatedconsonants are represented by twoidentical letters, and vowels andconsonants are given  completelydistinct letters .32.
Now we are able to carry out amorphological analysis revealing allthe word?s components.
By examiningthe results, the correct reading couldbe clearly seen.
This would beimpossible in Hebrew script.
Weconstructed a complete, exactmorphological analyzer for Hebrewwords, which also identifies inflectionsand attached particles.3.
Having perfected themorphological analyzer, whichprovides a complete set of detailsfor the analysis of any possiblereading of a string of characters,we could write a program3 The phonemic script contains four diacritics:?
?, ?, ?, ?, also ?
(or `) and ?
(or ?).
See ISO-259-3 (available in http://www.cs.technion.ac.il/~ornan/ papers).
Several programs for analysis ofHebrew morphology use the regular Hebrewscript also for the output.
See Bentor et al1992,Segal, 1999, Carmel and Maarek, 1999 (astatistical filter based on Bentor et al.
Theproblem is that in this way one can show thediverse readings only with the traditionalHebrew dots and points, many of themsuperfluous.
Our method is clearer since we useLatin characters through the whole work.which checks every suggested readingof a word, and eliminates readingsunsuitable to the syntax of the possiblyrequired sentence.4.
Even a syntactic reading does notensure that each of the strings inthe sentence is indeed a properreading of the relevant word.Syntactic elimination may leavemany words that do not suit ameaningful sentence.
Furthersemantic eliminating is required.5.
For this purpose we compiled acomplete conceptual dictionary of theHebrew language.
It is based onFillmore?s ideas about case grammar(Fillmore, 1968), according to whichthe verb is the center of the expression:it is a function whose arguments arethe noun phrases.
In every conceptualentry in our dictionary of verbs thereappear the semantic, syntactic andmorphological features demanded bythe verb to exist in the NP?s of thesentence, -- including the prepositions,which precede them.
Since thedictionary includes also the features ofthe arguments (NP?s) in the sentence, iteliminates readings of words that aresuitable syntactically but notsemantically.
Semantic check enablesus to discriminate both betweendifferent readings of same string ofHebrew characters as well as betweenthe different meanings of each of thereadings.In this way we completed thenecessary basis for the production of anexcellent search engine: it will respondto any question only with theoccurrences which bear the stipulatedmeaning, even though the same readingof the characters may have severalmeanings.
The contents of the articleare as follows:In section 2 we shall explain how weestablish all possible readings of a stringof characters.
Section 3 shows how we usesyntactic features to eliminate readingsthat do not fit the syntactic context; thenwe describe our conceptual dictionary.Section 4 shows how we can eliminatereadings that are possible syntactically butnot semantically.
Finally, in section 5 weshall explain how we choose theappropriate meaning of the word by usingthe dictionary.
Section 6 concludes thearticle.2.
The morphological stageOur algorithm consists of three stages:morphological, syntactic and semantic.Here we shall describe the first stage, themorphological.
The strings of charactersare taken from the Hebrew text in Hebrewscript, and every string is analyzed.
Aswas mentioned above, Hebrew scriptcontainsonly some of the vowels4 attachesparticles to the following word, and doesnot use double characters to specifygeminated letters (see Ornan, 1991); also,some of the characters serve either asvowels or as consonants.
It is advisable tobe able to read the text in a script that doesnot have these disadvantages51.
We use thephonemic script of ISO (FDIS 259-3).Thus, for instance, the Hebrew wordHRKBT can be read in any of thefollowing ways:hirkabta,    hirkabt, harkabatha-rakkebt,   h-rakabt,   h-rakabtaIn the morphological stage, each of thesepossibilities is written at the beginning ofa separate line, followed by all thegrammatical details of the reading:hrkbt    V  hirkib     ,-,-,ta ,p,2,+,#,s -,-,-,-,-hrkbt    V  hirkib     ,-,-,t   ,p,2,#,+,s  -,-,-,-,-hrkbt    N  harkaba  ,c,-,t   ,-,3,#,+,s  -,-,-,-,-hrkbt    N  rakkebt  ,a,-,-   ,-,3,#,+,s   -,-,-,-,- ha-hrkbt    V  rakab     ,-,-,t   ,p,-,#,+,s   -,-,-,-,-  h-hrkbt    V  rakab     ,-,-,ta ,p,-,+,#,s   -,-,-,-,-  h-4 Ide and V?ronis (1998:2) mention this as acause of the need to ?disambiguate?
Semiticlanguages.
I would have been more correct forthem to refer in their article to the system ofwriting rather then the languages.5  See Ornan, 1987, Ornan and Katz, 1994.
Seenote 3.lq?nwh V  laqax     ,-,-,nu ,p,1,+,+,p   3,#,+,s,hThe given Hebrew word is the firstcolumn.
The second column is thecategory.
The third column is the lexicalentry.
The following column gives thestatus of the word (construct, inflected orabsolute).
Next come the prefix and suffixof the word, the tense (for a verb), person,gender (masc., fem.
or both) and number(s or p), and then details about person,gender and number of the attachedpronoun (see the last example lq?nwh),and the attached pronoun itself.
The lastcolumn specifies attached particles.This morphological analysis is basedon a program which uses a completelexicon6, based on a comprehensivegrammar of all possible Hebrew word-patterns ?
including, of course, allinflections, regular and irregular.3.
The syntactic stageEach of these lines presents one possiblereading of the given word.
But usuallyonly one reading is acceptable in any givensentence.
Therefore, we must eliminatethose readings, which are morphologicallycorrect, but incorrect in the given context.7The first elimination is syntactic, and it isdone in the realm of one ?Syntactic Unit?,i.e., a clause which includes one verb andis bounded by a ?sign of separation?,mainly subordinating or certaincoordinating particles.8 At this stage allpossible analyses of the strings ofcharacters are displayed.
Now, the programattempts to combine each line of everyword with every one of the lines of allother words.
The correctness of thecombination is checked with all possible6 In general, we used Even-Shoshan, 1994,which is still considered to be the best.7 An interesting attempt to decipher a text inHebrew script - Nirenburg and Ben Asher,1984.8 ?Short context rules?
are not a satisfactorysolution, while our full syntactic analysis iseasily derived from the Conceptual Dictionary,as explained in what follows.sequences of other words.
Practically, onlya small number of these combinationsmake a sentence that is syntacticallycorrect.9 How is the syntactic testperformed?The program computes everycombination of possible strings of words.For example, giving the sentence HBWQRZR?H ?M?
?MH (in Hebrew script ?
"hotsun rose this morning") will render thefollowing analysis of all readings of thewords of this sentence:hbwqr N boqr        ,a,-,-   ,-,3,+,#,s  -,-,-,-,- ha-hbwqr N boqer      ,a,-,-   ,-,3,+,#,s  -,-,-,-,- ha-zr?h    N zar?a       ,a,-,-   ,-,3,#,+,s   -,-,-,-,-zr?h    N zer?
,i,-,-    ,-,3,+,#,s  3,#,+,s,hzr?h    V zara?
,-,-,h   ,p,3,#,+,s -,-,-,-,-?m?
N ?amma?
,a,-,-    ,-,3,+,#,s  -,-,-,-,-?m?
N ?amma?
,c,-,-    ,-,3,+,#,s -,-,-,-,-?m?
N ?em?
,a,-,-    ,-,3,#,+,s -,-,-,-,-?m?
N ?em?
,c,-,-    ,-,3,#,+,s -,-,-,-,-?m?
A ?amma?
,a,-,-    ,-,-,+,#,s  -,-,-,-,-?m?
V ?imme?
,-,-,-    ,i,2,+,#,s  -,-,-,-,-?m?
V ma?
,-,-,-   ,p,3,+,#,s -,-,-,-,- ?e-?m?
V ma?
,-,-,-   ,r,-,+,#,s  -,-,-,-,- ?e-?mh    N ?ema      ,a,-,-   ,-,3,#,+,s -,-,-,-,-?mh    A ?amma   ,a,-,-   ,-,-,#,+,s -,-,-,-,-?mh    N ?amma   ,a,-,-   ,-,-,#,+,s -,-,-,-,-This short expression provides 144sentences to be checked: 2x3x8x3=144.The syntactic stage will eliminate the greatmajority of invalid sequences of possiblereadings.
We shall not discuss them allhere ?
only make some remarks about afew clear cases for elimination.
Forexample, the readings boqr, boqer cannotfunction syntactically as the subject of thesentence, since they are masculine, and noverb in the rest of the sentence which isnot preceded by subordinating ?e- (?that?
)is masculine (agreement is needed).Similarly, the second word cannot bezar?a: a feminine noun, and no verb agreeswith zar?a (as subject) in the analyses ofthe other words.9 There has been much research on syntacticanalysis by means of a computer program; forinstance, Wintner and Ornan, 1995.
Herz andRimon, 1992, also deal mainly with syntacticproblems.
Levinger et al, 1995 demonstratemethods of eliminating syntactically incorrectmorphological readings.
See, too, Levinger,1992.First, the program looks for a verb.When a verb is identified, the programchecks possible nouns that can be thesyntactic subject.
It then checks other NP?sand PP?s, possible adjectives and adverbs.Mainly because the order of words inHebrew is rather free, the syntactic stageusually leaves a few possible sentencesthat may be accepted as proper readings ofthe input sentence from the syntactic pointof view.
But some of these possiblycorrect syntactic readings may possessimproper semantic!!
features, whichshould not be accepted.We have a special treatment forsentences without a verb (this may occurin Hebrew and other languages, especiallySemitic): if the program does not identifya verb in the input sentence,  it adds theverb haya (?to be?)
in the appropriategender, number and person, and the reviewprocess is repeated.
Our dictionary ofverbs is described below.
Here we mayremark that the verb haya appears in morethan one lexical entry.
One of them shouldbe accepted.
We shall preface thedescription of the stage of semanticelimination with an account of itsfundamental characteristics.4.
The conceptual approach4.1 IntroductionEvery natural language is a means ofdescribing the world.
It contains symbolsof concepts (concrete, abstract orimaginary).
Speakers of the language usethese symbols in order to designate theseconcepts as they occur in the world.1010  See Ostler, 1995:221, who emphasizes theworld-outlook common to all languages:??
there is a fair degree of comparabilityamong the units engaged by each language,just as there is a fair degree of similaritybetween the features of the human conditionthat they describe.
We all have the same sense-organs, live in modern Western societies withother human beings, confront the same tasks ofproviding food, clothing and shelters forIt is true that most of the words inevery natural language are symbols ofconcepts, of actions, and of therelationships between them.
But, as waspointed out above, every natural languagealso contains other, organizing elements,which do not symbolize concepts oractions and do not refer to the extra-linguistic world.
These elements organizethe other words around them: this is thedifference between organizing elementsand symbolic terms.
By ?OrganizingElements?
we are not referring only towhat are called ?grammatical words?, suchas ki in Hebrew, or ?that?
in English ?words which do not refer to any entity inthe world outside the language, but giveinformation about the other words in theexpression; these words (such as  ki,?that?, ?ello, ?whose?)
inform us,  forinstance, that  what follows them isintended to provide details of whateverpreceded them, or  to  describe it in aparticular way.
?Organizing Elements?also include morphological details whichhave a linguistic meaning, such asindications of gender (bianco ?
bianca inSpanish), of number, (boy ?
boys inEnglish), or person (vide ?
videsti inItalian) a hint to the definiteness of whatfollows (a ?
the in English), case endingswhich indicate the syntactic function ofthe concept symbolized by a noun inrelation to an operation in the worldindicated by a verb in the expression (inArabic, baytuun as subject ?
baytaan asobject), and so forth.
All of these aremorphological means, which serve toorganize conceptual symbols.In contrast to the conceptual elements,the organizing elements in the expressiondiffer as between languages not only intheir external form, but also in theirnature.
Languages differ from each otherin their systems of organizing symbols.Thus, what is unique in every naturallanguage is concentrated in the organizingourselves and our families, are confronted oraided by much the same degree of technicalprogress and so on.?
See also Whorf1956:138ff.
Both authors speak of Westernsocieties.elements, and far less in the lexical sphere.The dictionary that we constructed isbased on these assumptions.
It is first andforemost a ?dictionary of humanconcepts?
; but we also had to include theorganizing elements in it.
We shall nowdescribe this dictionary.4.2  The two parts of theconceptual dictionaryStandard dictionaries are arranged inalphabetical order, with the category ofeach lexical entry noted.
Our dictionary isdivided from the first into two maindictionaries: one for nouns, and one forverbs.
This will shortly be discussed indetail; but, first, we may observe that sincethe same Hebrew word frequently servesto symbolize several concepts (whetherthis be a  homograph, polysemy orhomonym), we add an index number to thelexical entry: for instance, cir1(?delegate?)
is a different concept fromcir2 (?hinge, pivot?
), even though inHebrew both of these concepts aresymbolized by the same word, cir.Similarly, ?eq ?1  means low barometricpressure, whereas ?eq ?2 means anelectrical wall-plug: both concepts aresymbolized by ?eq ?.
In both of theseinstances, we introduced two differententries.4.3 Dictionary of noun conceptsAn entry in the dictionary of nounconcepts consists of a list of the essentialfeatures of the concept.
Here are someexamples: The conceptual entries of baytread as follows:bayt1: {construct}{site}{receptacle}{concrete}{property}.bayt2: {site} {receptacle}{intimate}{family}.bayt3: {word}{information}{work of art}{poetry}.The words in curly brackets indicatefeatures of the concept (in our dictionarythey are in Hebrew, but have beentranslated for this article).
We began thework with an arbitrary list of about 130features of concepts, but eventually morewere added in the course of work in orderto define new concepts, and we now haveabout 170 features.11 The reader will seethat the concept bayt1 refers to the Englishword ?house?, bayt2 to ?home?, and bayt3to ?stanza?.The idea of a conceptual dictionarywas conceived as a means of constructingan infrastructure for comprehensiveprocessing of the Hebrew language, andnot only for the construction of an efficientsearch engine.
This base has alreadyserved in the construction of a Hebrew?Reading Machine?
for the blind12.
Recallthat in order to read a Hebrew text thewhole sentence must be read.
Sometimes ashorter context is sufficient.
Theconceptual dictionary is intended to enablethe sentence containing the given word tobe read accurately by using a sophisticatedprocedure that takes into account all thepossible readings of every word in thesentence and by reading the wholesentence, and not simply word by word.We must now describe the dictionary ofverbs.4.3   The dictionary of verbsThe dictionary of noun concepts byitself cannot activate the algorithmrequired for correct reading of the Hebrewsentence.
A dictionary of verbal conceptsis also required.13 C.C.
Fillmore (1968)11 Miller?s WordNet is a mine of features,many of them but not all have been used in ourengine.
See especially Miller, 1993.12 In the years 1996-98 an Israeli company(Eastek) developed a ?reading machine?
forthe use of the blind in Israel, using this base inits first version.13   Stern?s Verb Dictionary, 1994, is not aconceptual dictionary.
Although it includes inevery lexical entry the particles to be found inexpressions in which the verbal entry iscentral, it does not relate to thematicarguments and their semantic features.opened new linguistic horizons by puttingthe verb in the center of the expression,and showing how all the other parts of thesentence should obey the demands of theverb.
(Tesni?re should be mentioned hereas the ?father?figure?, as Somers 1987,p.1 emphasizes, but note what follows onthe same page, as well as in Ch.2.)
Weexploit this concept to the full, and extendit to build a dictionary of conceptualentries related to actions in the world.14Therefore, the dictionary of verbscontains in the entry of every single verbeverything that that particular verbrequires to be included in the sentence.First of all, the verb?s entry includes theanswer to the question: what specificthematic functions are required in thesentence to which this particular verb iscentral,15 and what semantic features mustthe noun phrases which perform thesethematic functions possess.16 2 Thethematic functions themselves arecommon to all men: for example, thethematic function ?agent?
or ?experiencer?exists in most sentences in variouslanguages.
This also applies to thethematic functions ?theme?
and?instrument?.In our dictionary, however, the verbalentry also contains organizing elements: inthe first instance, the prepositions that theverb requires or allows to be placed beforethe noun  phrases.
We included theprepositions in the verb dictionary in orderto solve the problem of the prepositionsindividually and rigorously.
Basically, apreposition is an organizing element: itsprings not from reality, but from theconventions appropriate to each particularlanguage, and relates to reality only partlyand, in general, quite vaguely.
In14 In honor of Fillmore my students call ourconceptual dictionary ?Fillmore Dictionary?.15 The same ides is sometimes called, lessclearly, ?selectional restrictions?
(Chomsky,1965,1984).16 Compare some examples of entries, or ?caseframes?, suggested by various authors incomputational linguistics in  Somers, 1987illuminating book, mainly in Ch.11.organizing the material in this way, thereis no need to deal with the problem ofclassifying ?types?
of verbs (see thediscussion in Somers 1987: 70-74, and283 et seq.
), or to categorize themaccording to ?selectional restrictions?
(seenote 15).Secondly, some adverbs must appearin the verb?s entry in the dictionary: someas optional elements; others, occasionally,as necessary elements.
In every case theyare labeled as fulfilling a secondarythematic function, to which we give thevariable code NP3 or NP4 (NP1 agrees inperson, number and gender to the verb,i.e., it is the subject, NP2 is usually thetheme).
Round brackets show that theoccurrence of this element is optional.
Butthere are also ?external?
adverbs, whichcannot be included in the lexical entry ofthe verb even though they may appearfrequently in many input sentences.
In themain, they indicate the time or place of theaction, or function as ?sentential adverbs?which describe the external circumstancesof the event.
When such an adverb appearsin an input sentence (it may appear as anunidentified element in a sentence foranalysis) we give it the symbol of a nounphrase (NP), with a special index number:NP8 or NP9.
In various systems oflinguistic analysis it is usual to markadverbs PP.
However, this symbol seemssuperfluous and we have preferred to markthis element as NP, with a prepositionpreceding it (in our system, a prepositionmay also be ?
?).
A similar problem mayarise with adjectives.
They, too, are notincluded among the requirements of theverbs but, of course, they occur in theinput sentences.
We built a separatedictionary for adjectives.
It constitutes aseparate section of the noun dictionary,and its entries may be added to the noun(with the organizational and semanticlimitations of their lexical entries) orfunction independently as separate NP?s.Thirdly, in many conceptual entriesextra details are sometimes included, forexample, special modifications of genderor number, the addition of epithetsappropriate to one of the required nouncombinations, idioms, etc.
Anotherexample of elements that are notconnected with a concept arising fromreality is to be found in verbs expressingthought or speech.
They require asubordinate clause which is characterizedby the feature ?
{contents}?, but thecontent is unrestricted (in Arabic grammarthese are known as ?verbs of the heart?
).This is a syntactic condition, and may,therefore, differ among  languages.
As canbe seen, the conceptual dictionary is notpurely semantic.
It also contains manysyntactic elements, and even somemorphological details.
In our dictionarywe have formulated approximately  tenthousand verb entries.
The noun dictionaryat the moment consists of thirty fivethousand entries.Here are some examples ofconceptual verb entries as they appear inour dictionary, followed by someexplanatory notes.Pitte?1    [= develop a film]NP1 AGENT  {human, role, org}NP2  THEME  "et" {printed matter,picture}pitte?2  [= open a knot]NP1 AGENT  {human, role, org}NP2  THEME  "et" {knot, "?gor"}pitte?3173 [= carve]NP1 AGENT  {human, role}NP2 THEME  "et " {writing, word,picture }(NP3) INSTRUMENT "b-" {tool,sharp, acute}(NP4) INSTRUMENT  "?al" {solid,platform, article}As can be seen, the Hebrew verb pitte?signifies three conceptual entries, which inother languages could well be expressedby three completely different anddissimilar words.In the following examples there arealso limitations of organizing elements.Here we should add some remarks aboutspecial symbols and explanations of thenames of the thematic functions: %indicates that the succeeding wordsignifies a syntactic structure, and not athematic function.
Double quotation marks17 There are some other meanings to this verb,but in order to explain our approach these threesuffice.(?
?)
indicate Hebrew words, particularlyprepositions (such as  ?et?, ?b-?, ?
?al?
)which are required by the verb or are partsof idioms.
Round brackets?
(  )?
denote an optional function which isnot obligatory to the sentence to beanalyzed.
A diagonal stroke   ?/?
indicatesanother possibility, shown in theexpression which follows it.hebin            [= understand]NP1 EXPERIENCER {human, role,org}NP2  "?e-" %SENTENCE/ NP2 ?et?
AIMED-AT {abstract,info}?imme?1       [= serve ]NP1  INFLUENCER {-}NP2  THEME  {human, org}(NP3) {"l-"/"k-"} GOAL {action}?imme?2       [= be used as ]NP1 THEME {human, instrument,site, construction}NP2 "btor"  FUNCTION { human,instrument, site, construction}?arak1            [= set a table]NP1 AGENT {human, role}NP2 "et" THEME {"?ulxan"}[=table,an idiom]?arak2            [= organize ]NP1 AGENT {human, org.
}NP2  "et" THEME {act, happening}?arak3            [= edit ]NP1 AGENT {human, org.
}NP2  "et" THEME {printed_matter,work of art}zarax              [= rise (sun) ]NP1   THEME  {source_of_light,source_of_heat, strong}rakab              [= ride ]NP1 AGENT {human}(NP2) "?al" THEME {four_legged_animal, vehicle}(NP3) "l-" TO-LOC {site, place,happening, human}(NP4) "mi-" FROM- LOC {site,place, happening, human}The Hebrew preposition et  issometimes rendered  as "  " (especiallywhen it precedes an entry noun without adefinite article); but, since this is alwaysso, it is not worth printing " "  separatelyfor each entry; so this possibility isincluded in the program.Another example: the expressionmaca` xenn is an idiom, and it seems as ifone could treat the combination as oneword.
But since there could also be anexpression in which the two words of theidiom were separated, and in view of themorphological difficulties to which such asolution could lead, we prefer to formulateit as a simple one-word verb, located in aspecial lexical entry maca`1.
This verbrequires obligatory completion in thisexpression ?
?xenn?, with NP2 status.maca`1            [="NP3 likes NP1"]NP1  AIMED-AT  { }NP2    THEME  {"xenn"}NP3  "b-?einei" AGENT {human,animate}After our description of the conceptualdictionary, we shall now describe theprocess of semantic elimination.5.
The semantic stageIt will be recalled that we first identified averb among the readings of the words, andthen dealt with the elimination ofsyntactically improper readings.
We nowturn to the conceptual dictionaries to seewhether the NP's accord with the expectedthematic role of the proposed verb, andwhether the NP?s contain the appropriatesemantic features.
This procedure isrepeated for each possible reading of astring as a verb in order to discover allpossible interpretations of the sentence.The final results usually contain oneinterpretation only, the intended one.
Butsometimes more than one interpretation isreceived.
This is for one of two reasons:either the program discovers a true andappropriate reading that a human being didnot think of, or the interpretation does notfit conditions in the real world.
To includesome means of checking knowledge of theworld in the program would, of course, bea formidable problem.
But these resultsare quite rare, and presented in the resultsonly as another possibility, besides thecorrect one.6.
ConclusionThe analysis and identification of correctreadings of words in Hebrew script is farfrom being a simple task.
The correctreading of any word  is achieved only as  aresult of reading the rest of the words ofthe complete  clause and  sentence.
Wehadto invest much work to solve this problemand to build a complex system ofprograms before we could have achieved ahigh-grade search engine, which is farbetter than other existing suggestions.
Seeappendix for comparison.As noted above we succeeded inproducing this engine only on theassumption that a Hebrew word must beread not on its own but in accordance withthe reading of a complete sentence.
Wefound that we achieved a powerfulprogram, constituting a comprehensiveinfrastructure, for processing the Hebrewlanguage for the computer.
Thisinfrastructure has already produced otherresults (the reading machine for the blind,see note 12), and it enables us to begin towork on automatic translation fromHebrew to other languages -?
a task whichhas never yet been attempted.184  It seemsthat this method of translation bycomputer may be suitable to any language,and could be a contribution to translationsfrom other languages.7.
ReferencesBentor,E., A.Angel, D.Ben-Ari-Segev andA.Lavie.
1992.
Computerized Analysis ofHebrew Words in Hebrew ComputationalLinguistics, ed.
by U. Ornan, G.Arieli andE.Doron, Ministry of  Science andTechnology, pages  36-38.
(Hebrew).Carmel, David and Yoelle Maarek.
1999.Morphological disambiguation for Hebrew.In Proceedings of the 4th InternationalWorkshop NGIT-99, Lecture notes incomputer science 1649.
Springer Verlag,pages 312-325.18 We are not referring to computerizedbilingual dictionaries, but to a full translation.Chomsky, N. 1965.
Aspects of the Theory ofSyntax.
MIT Press.Chomsky, N. Lectures on Government andBinding.. .
Foris Pub.Choueka, Y. and Serge Lusignan.1985 .Disambiguation by Short Contexts.
InComputers And Humanities Vol 19:147-157.Choueka Yaacov.1990.
Responsa: AnOperational Full-Text Retrieval System.In Computers in  Literary and LinguisticResearch.
edited by J .Hamesse and A.Zampoli.
Champion-Slatkine Paris-Geneve .Pages 94-102Even-Shoshan, Avraham.1987.
The NewDictionary.
(Hebrew).Fillmore,C.C.1968.
The Case for Case.In Universals in Linguistic Theory .Edited By E.Bach and  R.Harmes.Holt, Rinehart and Winston, NewYork,  Academic Press.
Pages 59-81.Herz,Y.
and M.Rimon.1992.
DiminishingAmbiguity by Short-ContextAutomaton.
In Hebrew ComputationalLinguistics .Edited by U. Ornan,G.Arieli and E. Doron.
Ministry ofScience and  Technology.
Pages74-87.
(Hebrew).Ide, Nancy and Jean V?ronis.1998.Introduction to the Special Issue on WordSense Disambiguation: The State of theArt.
Compuational Linguistics  24:140 .ISO 259-3.1999 .Conversion of HebrewCharacters  Into Latin Characters.
Part3: Phonemic  Conversion.ISO/TC46/SC2.Levinger, Moshe.
1992.
MorphologicalDisambiguation in Hebrew.
ResearchThesis for MSc in Computer Science.Technion.
Haifa (Hebrew).Levinger,Moshe, Uzzi Ornan and Itai Alon.1995.
Learning Morpho-LexicalProbabilities from an Untagged Corpuswith an Application to Hebrew.Computational Linguistics  21:383404 .Miller, George A.1993.
Nouns in WordNet.Web file.Nirenburg, Sergei and Y. Ben Asher.1984.
HUHU :Hebrew UniversityHebrew Understander.
Journal ofComputational LinguisticsVol.9:161-182.Ornan, Uzzi.
1987.
Hebrew Text ProcessingBased on Unambiguous Script.
.Mishpatim17:15-24.
(Hebrew)Ornan, Uzzi.1991.
Theoretical Gemination inIsraeli Hebrew.
Semitic Studies in honor ofWolf Lwslau.
Edited by Alan S, Kaye.
OttoHarrassowitz, Weisbaden.
Pages1158-1168.Ornan, Uzzi and Michael Katz.
1994.
ANew  Program for Hebrew Index Basedon the Phonemic Script .TR #LCL 94-7(revised).
Technion - I.I.T.Ostler, Nicholas.
1995.
PerceptionVocabulary in five Languages  ?Towards an Analysis Using FrameElements.
In Steffens Petra (editor)Machine Translation and theLexicon.
Springer Verlag.
Pages219-23.Segal, Erel,1999.
Hebrew MorphologicalAnalyzer for Hebrew undottedAnalysis.
Thesis for MSc in ComputerScience.
Technion.
Haifa (Hebrew).Somers, H.L.
1987.Valency and Case inComputational Linguistics.
EdinburgUniversity Press.Stern, Naftali.
1994.
The Verb Dictionary.Bar-Ilan  University.
(Hebrew).Wintner, Shuly and Uzzi Ornan.
1995.Syntactic Analysis of Hebrew Sentence.Natural Lnaguage Engineering1:261-288.Whorf, Benjamin Lee.
1956.
TheRelation of Habitual Thought andBehavior to Language.
In  Leslie Spier(editor) Language, Culture andReality , essays in memory of EdwardSapir.1941.
Pages 75-93.
Reprinted inJohn B. Carrol  (editor) Language,Thought and Reality.
M.I.T.
Press.Pages 134-159..
