Issues Under NegotiationStaffan LarssonDept.
of linguistics, Box 200Go?teborg UniversitySE 405 30 Go?teborg, Swedensl@ling.gu.seAbstractIn this paper, we give an account ofa simple kind of collaborative negotia-tive dialogue.
We also sketch a formal-ization of this account and discuss itsimplementation in a dialogue system.1 IntroductionIn this paper, we give an issue-based accountof a simple kind of collaborative negotiative dia-logue1.
We start from a previous formal accountof negotiative dialogue (Sidner, 1994a) and ar-gue for a slightly different idea of what negotia-tive dialogue is.
We want to make a distinctionbetween the process of accepting an utteranceand its content, which applies to all utterances,and a concept of negotiation defined, roughly,as a discussion of several alternative solutions tosome problem.
This latter account is formulatedin terms of Issues Under Negotiation (IUN), rep-resenting the question or problem to be resolved,and a set of alternative answers, representingthe proposed solutions.
We argue that this the-ory improves on certain aspects of Sidner?s ac-count while also fitting into a question-based di-alogue management framework which has previ-ously been implemented in the GoDiS dialoguesystem (Bohlin et al, 1999).1Work on this paper was supported by SIRIDUS(Specification, Interaction and Reconfiguration in Dia-logue Understanding Systems), EC Project IST-1999-10516, and D?Homme (Dialogues in the Home MachineEnvironment), EC Project IST-2000-26280, and STINT(The Swedish Foundation for International Cooperationin Research and Higher Education).
An extended pre-sentation of this work appears in (Larsson, 2002).First, we will give a brief review of Sidner?stheory and discuss its merits and drawbacks2.We then provide an alternative account basedon the concept of Issues Under Negotiation.
Weexplain how IUN can be added to GoDiS, andgive an information state analysis of a simple ne-gotiative dialogue.
Finally, we draw some con-clusions and point to possible future research ar-eas.2 Sidner?s theory of negotiativedialogueAs the title says, Sidner?s theory is formulatedas ?an artificial discourse language for collabo-rative negotiation?.
This language consists of aset of messages (or message types) with propo-sitional contents (?beliefs?).
The effects of anagent transmitting these messages to anotheragent is formulated in terms of the ?state ofcommunication?
after the message has been re-ceived.
The state of communication includes in-dividual beliefs and intentions, mutual beliefs,and two stacks for Open Beliefs and RejectedBeliefs.
Some of the central messages are?
ProposeForAccept (PFA agt1 beliefagt2): agt1 expresses belief to agt2.?
Reject (RJ agt1 belief agt2): agt1does not believe belief, which has beenoffered as a proposal2A more in-depth description of Sidner?s account andits relation to the GoDiS model, including a reformula-tion of Sidner?s artificial negotiation language in termsof GoDiS information state updates, can be found in(Cooper et al, 2001).Philadelphia, July 2002, pp.
103-112.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Proceedings of the Third SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue,?
AcceptProposal (AP agt1 belief agt2):agt1 and agt2 now hold belief as a mu-tual belief?
Counter (CO agt1 belief1 agt2belief2): Without rejecting belief1,agt1 offers belief2 to agt2In addition, there are three kinds ofacknowledgement messages, the most im-portant being AcknowledgeReceipt (AR agt1belief agt2), which may occur after aProposeForAccept message and results inbelief being pushed on the stack for Open Be-liefs.
Acknowledgement indicates that a previ-ous message from agt2 about belief has beenheard; the agents will not hold belief as a mu-tual belief until an AcceptProposal message hasbeen sent.While we will not give a detailed analysis ofthe effects of each of these acts, some observa-tions are important for the purposes of this pa-per.
Specifically, a counter-proposal (CO agt1belief1 agt2 belief2) is analyzed as a com-posite message consisting of two PFA messageswith propositional contents.
The first proposedproposition is belief2 (the ?new?
proposal),and the second is (Supports (Not belief1)belief2), i.e.
that belief2 supports the nega-tion of belief1 (the ?old?
proposal).
Exactlywhat is meant by ?supports?
here is left unspec-ified, but perhaps logical entailment is at leasta simple kind of support.?
(PFA agt1 belief2 agt2)?
(PFA agt1 (Supports (Not belief1)belief2) agt2)Sidner?s analysis of proposals is only con-cerned with propositional contents.
A Requestfor action is modelled as a proposal whose con-tent is of the form (Should-Do Agt Action).A question is a proposal for the action to pro-vide certain information.
This brings us to ourfirst problem with Sidner?s account.3 Problem 1: Negotiation vs.utterance acceptanceIn Sidner?s theory, all dialogue is negotiativein the sense that all utterances (except accep-tances, rejections, and acknowledgements) areseen as proposals.
This is correct if we considernegotiation as possibly concerning meta-aspectsof the dialogue.
Since any utterance (content)can be rejected, all utterances can indeed be seenas proposals.
(Clark, 1996) provides a ?ladder?
with fourlevels of comprehension involved in groundingof natural language utterances in dialogue.1.
A attends to B?s utterance2.
A perceives B?s utterance3.
A understands B?s utterance4.
A accepts or rejects B?s utteranceSo in one sense of ?negotiative?, all dialogueis negotiative since assertions (and questions, in-structions etc.)
can be rejected or accepted.
Butsome dialogues are negotiative in another sense,in that they contain explicitly discussions aboutdifferent solutions to a problem.
Negotiation, onthis view, is distinct from Clark?s level 4.There is thus a stronger sense of negotiationwhich is not present in all dialogue.
A mini-mum requirement on negotiation in this strongersense could be that several alternative solutions(answers) to a problem (question or issue) canbe discussed and compared before a solution isfinally settled on.
Sidner is aware of this as-pect of negotiation, and notes that ?maintain-ing more than one open proposal is a commonfeature of human discourses and negotiations.
?What we want to do is to find a way of cap-turing this property independently of groundingand of other aspects of negotiation, and use itas a minimal requirement on any dialogue thatis to be regarded as negotiative.On our view, utterances realizing proposal-moves are moves on the same level as other dia-logue moves: greetings, questions, answers etc.,and can thus be accepted or rejected on thislevel.
Accepting a proposal-move on the ground-ing level merely means accepting the content ofthe move as a proposal, i.e.
as a potential answerto a question.
This is different from acceptingthe proposed alternative as the actual solutionto a problem (answer to a question).To give a concrete example of these differentconcepts of negotiativity, we can compare thedialogues in Figures 1 and 2.
The type negotia-tion in 1 concerns acceptance-level grounding ofthe utterance and its content.
By contrast, thetype of negotiation in 2 concerns domain-level is-sues rather than some aspect of grounding.
Wewon?t have much to say about grounding-relatednegotiation in this paper, but see (Lewin et al,2000) for an account of negotiation related toutterance grounding.4 Problem 2: Alternatives andcounterproposalsWhen analyzing a travel agency dialogue (Sid-ner, 1994b), the travel agent?s successive pro-posals of flights are seen as counterproposals tohis own previous proposals, each modelled asa proposition.
The difference between propos-als and counterproposals is that the latter notonly make a new proposal but also proposes theproposition that the new proposal conflicts withthe previous proposal (by supporting the nega-tion of the previous proposal).
This can be seenas an attempt by Sidner to establish the con-nection between the two proposals as somehowconcerning the same issue.This analysis is problematic in that it excludescases where alternatives are not mutually exclu-sive, which is natural when e.g.
booking a flight(since the user presumably only want one flight)but not e.g.
when buying a CD (since the usermay want to buy more than one).
Also, it seemsodd to make counterproposals to your own pre-vious proposals, especially since making a pro-posal commits you to intending the addressee toaccept that proposal rather than your previousones.
In many cases (including travel agencies)it seems that the agent may often be quite in-different to which flight the user selects.
Travelagents may often make several proposals in oneutterance, e.g.
?There is one flight at 7:45 andone at 12:00?, in which case it does not makesense to see ?one at 12:00?
as a counterproposalas Sidner defines them.Of course, one would not want to use theterm ?counterproposal?
in these cases; what weneed is some way of proposing alternatives with-out seeing them as counterproposals.
The basicproblem seems to be that when several propos-als are ?on the table?
at once, one needs someway of representing the fact that they are notindependent of each other.
Sidner does thisby adding propositions of the form (Supports(Not belief1) belief2) to show that belief1and belief2 are not independent; however, thisproposition not only claims that the proposi-tions are somehow dependent, but also that theyare (logically or rhetorically) mutually exclusive.In our view, this indicates a need for a theoryof negotiation which makes it possible to repre-sent several alternatives as somehow concerningthe same issue, independently of rhetorical orlogical relations between the alternatives.
Ne-gotiation, in our view, should not in general beseen in terms of proposals and counterproposals,but in terms of proposing and choosing betweenseveral alternatives.5 Negotiation as discussingalternativesIn this section, we will attempt to provide amore detailed description of negotiative dia-logue.
Clearly, negotiation is a type of problem-solving (Di Eugenio et al, 1998).
We definenegotiative dialogue more specifically to be di-alogue where DPs3 discuss several alternativesolutions to a problem (issue) before choosingone of them.
In line with our issue-based ap-proach to dialogue management, we propose tomodel negotiable problems (issues) semanticallyas questions and alternative solutions as alter-native answers to a question.We also propose to keep track of these issuesunder negotiation and the answers being consid-ered as potential solutions to each issue in theform of a stack (or ordered set) of pairs of issues3DPs = Dialogue ParticipantsA> Today is January 6th.propose propositionB(alt.
1)> Uhuhaccept propositionB(alt.
2)> No, it?s not!reject propositionFigure 1: Negotiating utterance (content) acceptanceS> where do you want to go?ask questionU> flights to paris on june 13 pleaseanswer questionS> there is one flight at 07:45 and one at 12:00propose alternatives, give information about alternativesU> what airline is the 12:00 oneask questionS> the 12:00 flight is an SAS flightanswer questionU> I?ll take the 7:45 flight pleaseaccept alternative, answer question ?which flight?
?Figure 2: Negotiating alternative solutions to an issueand sets of answers.
We label this stack IssuesUnder Negotiation, or IUN.5.1 Degrees of negotiativityStarting from this definition, we can distinguishbetween fully negotiative dialogue and semi-negotiative dialogue.
In non-negotiative dia-logue, only one alternative can be discussed.
Insemi-negotiative dialogue, a new alternative canbe introduced by revising parameters of the pre-vious alternative; however, previous alternativesare not retained.
Finally, in negotiative dia-logue: several alternatives can be introduced,and old alternatives are retained and can be re-turned to.Semi-negotiative information-oriented dia-logue does not require keeping track of severalalternatives.
All that is required is that in-formation is revisable, and that new databasequeries can be formed from old ones by replac-ing some piece of information.
This propertyis implemented in a limited way for example inthe Swedish railway information system (a vari-ant of the Philips system (Aust et al, 1994)),which after providing information about a tripwill ask the user ?Do you want an earlier orlater train??.
This allows the user to modify theprevious query (although in a very limited way)and get information about further alternatives.However, it is not possible to compare the alter-natives by asking questions about them; indeed,there is no sign that information about previousalternatives is retained in the system.5.2 Factors influencing negotiationThere are a number of aspects of the dia-logue situation which affect the complexity ofnegotiative dialogues, and allows further sub-classification of them.
This sub-classification al-lows us to pick out a subspecies of negotiativedialogue to implement.On our definition, negotiation does not re-quire conflicting goals or interests, and for thisreason it may not correspond perfectly to theeveryday use of the word ?negotiation?.
How-ever, we feel it is useful to keep collaborativity(i.e.
lack of conflicting goals) as a separate di-mension from negotiation.
Also, it is commonpractice in other fields dealing with negotiation(e.g.
game theory, economy) to include collabo-rative negotiation (cf.
(Lewin et al, 2000)).A second factor influencing negotiation is thedistribution of information between DPs.
Insome activities, information may be symmet-rically distributed, i.e.
DPs have roughly thesame kind of information, and also the samekind of information needs (questions they wantanswered).
This is the case e.g.
in the Co-conut (Di Eugenio et al, 1998) dialogues whereDPs each have an amount of money and theyhave to decide jointly on a number of furnitureitems to purchase.
In other activities, such as atravel agency, the information and informationneeds of the DPs is asymmetrically distributed.The customer has access to information abouther destination, approximate time of travel etc.,and wants to know e.g.
exact flight times andprices.
The travel agent has access to a databaseof flight information, but needs to know whenthe customer wants to leave, where she wants totravel, etc.A third variable is whether DPs must commitjointly (as in e.g.
the Coconut dialogues) or oneDP can make the commitment by herself (as e.g.in flight booking).
In the latter case, the accep-tance of one of the alternatives can be modelledas an answer to an issue on IUN by the DP re-sponsible for the commitment, without the needfor an explicit agreement from the other DP.
Inthe former case, a similar analysis is possible,but here it is more likely that an explicit ex-pression of agreement is needed from both DPs.This variable may perhaps be referred to as ?dis-tribution of decision rights?.Travel agency dialogue, and dialogue in otherdomains with clear differences in informationand decision-right distribution between roles,has the advantage of making dialogue move in-terpretation easier since the presence of a certainbits of information in an utterance together withknowledge about the role of the speaker and therole-related information distribution often canbe used to determine dialogue move type.
Forexample, an utterance containing the phrase ?toParis?
spoken by a customer in a travel agencyis likely to be intended to provide informationabout the customer?s desired destination.6 Issues Under Negotiation (IUN)In this section we discuss the notion of Is-sues Under Negotiation represented by ques-tions, and how proposals relate to issues on IUN.We also discuss how this approach differs fromSidner?s.6.1 Negotiable issues and activityWhich issues are negotiable depends on the ac-tivity.
For example, it is usually not the casethat the name of a DP is a negotiable issue; thisis why it would perhaps seem counterintuitiveto view an introduction (?Hi, my name is NN?
)as a proposal.
However, it cannot be ruled outthat there is some activity where even this maybecome a matter of negotiation.
Also, it is usu-ally possible in principle to make any issue intoa negotiable issue, e.g.
by raising doubts abouta previous answer.However, for our current purposes we maymake a distinction between negotiable and non-negotiable issues in an activity.
The advan-tage of this is that the more complex processingand domain-specific knowledge required for ne-gotiable issues are only required for issues whichthe system needs to be able to negotiate.
Thedrawback, of course, is that the system becomesless flexible; however, there is always the possi-bility of defining all issues as negotiative if oneso desires.6.2 Alternatives as answers to issues onIUNGiven that we analyze Issues Under Negotiationas questions, it is a natural move to analyze thealternative solutions to this issue as potentialanswers.
On this view, a proposal has the effectof adding an alternative answer to the set of al-ternative answers to an issue on IUN.
An answerto the question on IUN is equivalent to accept-ing one of the potential answers as the actualanswer.
That is, a question on IUN is resolvedwhen an alternative answer is accepted.Here we see how our concept of acceptancediffers from Sidner.
On our view a proposal canbe accepted in two different ways: as a proposal,or as the answer to an issue on IUN.
Acceptinga proposal move as adding an alternative corre-sponds to meta-level acceptance.
However, ac-cepting an alternative as the answer to an issueon IUN is different from accepting an utterance.Given the optimistic approach to acceptance, allproposals will be assumed to be accepted as pro-posals; however, it takes an answer-move to getthe proposed alternative accepted as the solu-tion to a problem.7 Adding IUN to the GoDiSinformation stateThe ideas described in this paper are currentlybeing implemented in GoDiS (Bohlin et al,1999), an experimental dialogue system initiallyadapted for the travel agency domain but lateradapted for several other domains.
GoDiS isimplemented using the TrindiKit(Larsson andTraum, 2000; Larsson et al, 2000), a toolkit forexperimenting with information states and di-alogue move engines and for building dialoguesystems.The notion of information state used byGoDiS is basically a version of the dialogue gameboard which has been proposed by (Ginzburg,1998).
We represent information states of a dia-logue participant as a record of the type shownin Figure 3.The main division in the information stateis between information which is private to theagent and that which is shared between the di-alogue participants.
The private part of the in-formation state contains a plan field holdinga dialogue plan, i.e.
is a list of dialogue ac-tions that the agent wishes to carry out.
Theagenda field, on the other hand, contains theshort term goals or obligations that the agenthas, i.e.
what the agent is going to do next.We have included a field tmp that mirrors theshared fields.
This field keeps track of sharedinformation that has not yet been confirmed asgrounded, i.e.
as having been understood by theother dialogue participant.
The shared field isdivided into a local and a global part.
The localpart contains information about the latest utter-ance, and information which may be relevant forinterpreting it.
The first subfield is for a stackof questions under discussion (qud).
These arequestions that can currently be answered ellip-tically.
The lu field contains information aboutthe speaker of, and the moves performed in, lat-est utterance.The global part contains shared informa-tion which reflects the global state of the dia-logue.
It contains a set of propositions (com-mitments) which the agent assumes have beenjointly committed to in the dialogue (com).In order to include Issues Under Negotiationand alternative answers to issues on IUN inthe information state, we have also addeda new information state field of type Open-Stack(Pair(Question,Set(Answer)))4.We define update rules for updating the infor-mation state based on the recognized move(s).The rules are defined in terms of preconditionsand effects on the information state; the effectsare a list of operations to be executed if the pre-conditions are true.Regarding the semantics of questions, propo-sitions, and short answers, we use a simpli-fied version of first order logic with the addi-tion of lambda abstracts for representing ques-tions.
Questions and answers can be combinedto form propositions.
For example, the con-tent of ?when do you want to leave??
canbe represented as ?x.desired dept time(x),the answer ?twelve thirty?
as 12:30, and theproposition resulting from combining the twodesired dept time(12:30).
As a further ex-ample, the proposition that a certain flight(denoted f1) departs at 7:45 is represented asdept time(f1,0745).
For a more comprehen-sive description of the semantics used, see (Lars-son, 2002).4The choice of a stack is motivated by the fact thatseveral issues may, in principle, be under negotiation atonce, and that some issues may be subordinate to others.An open stack is a stack where non-topmost elements areaccessible for inspection and deletion.????????????????
?private :????
?agenda : Stack(Action)plan : Stack(PlanConstruct)bel : Set(Prop)tmp : (same as shared)????
?shared :???????
?global :[com : Set(Prop)iun : OpenStack(Pair(Question,Set(Answer)))]local :??
?qud : Stack(Question)lu :[speaker : Participantmoves : Set(Move)]???????????????????????????
?Figure 3: Extended GoDiS information state type, including IUN8 An exampleIn the (invented) example in 4, the question onIUN is ?x.desired flight(x), i.e.
?Which flightdoes the user want??.
The user supplies infor-mation about her desired destination and depar-ture date; this utterance is interpreted as a set ofanswer-moves by the system since it provides an-swers to questions that the system has asked orwas going to ask.
As a response to this, GoDiSperforms a database search which returns twoflights f1 and f2 matching the specification, andstores the database results in private.bel.
Thesystem then proposes these flights as answers tothe IUN.
The system also supplies some infor-mation about them.
As a result, the IUN is nowassociated with two alternative answers, f1 andf2.
Finally, the user provides an answer to thequestion on IUN, thereby accepting one of thesealternatives as the flight she wants to take.Because of space limitations, this dialoguedoes not include any discussion or comparisonof alternatives, but it could easily be extendedto cover e.g.
the dialogue in 2.In a travel agency setting, it can be arguedthat the informational distribution and decisionrights associated with the roles of customer andclerk in a travel agency are sufficient to distin-guish proposals for acceptances, but in a morecomplex setting the move recognition will re-quire more information about surface form anddialogue context.9 Relation to previous workMuch work on negotiative dialogue, includingthat of Sidner, is based on variations on the BDImodel of classic AI and uses generalised plan-ning and plan recognition as an integral part ofdialogue processing (e.g.
(Cohen and Levesque,1991), (Grosz and Kraus, 1993) (Chu-Carrolland Carberry, 1994)).
The risk with this kindof very general reasoning is that it may becomecomputationally complex and expensive.
There-fore, we believe it is useful to start with a simpletheory involving reasoning specific to a certainkind of dialogue and see how far that takes us,and at what point general planning and reason-ing is really necessary.In working on GoDiS our strategy has beento start from a basic issue-based approach andgradually extending it, while trying to keepthings as simple as possible.
We believe thatthe issue-based approach can be extended with,and is compatible with, planning and generalreasoning mechanisms.
This is also in line withthe idea behind the information state update ap-proach as implemented in TrindiKit, i.e.
to al-low for experimentation with different kinds ofinformation states and information state updatestrategies at various levels of complexity (ratherthan being confined to choosing between over-simplified finite state / frame-based approacheson the one hand, or complex plan-based ap-proaches on the other).Also, most of the plan-based dialogue researchis focused on relatively complex dialogues in-volving collaborative planning.
The model pre-sented here is not committed to the view thatnegotiation only takes place in the context of col-laborative planning.
In the sense of negotiativedialogue used here, i.e.
dialogue involving sev-A> flights to paris, june 13answer(desired dest city(paris))answer(desired dept date(13/6))B> OK, there?s one flight leaving at 07:45 and one at 12:00propose(f1)propose(f2)inform(dept time(f1,07:45))inform(dept time(f2,12:00))????????????????????????
?private =?????
?agenda = ?
findout(?x.desired flight(x)) ?plan = ?
findout(?x.credit-card-no(x))book ticket ?bel ={ flight(f1)dept time(f1,0745).
.
.}?????
?shared =??????????????
?global =?????
?com =??????
?dept time(f1,0745)dept time(f2,1200)desired dest city(paris)desired dept date(13/6).
.
.??????
?iun = ?
?x.desired flight(x)?
{f1, f2}??????
?local =???
?qud = ?
?lu =??
?speaker = sysmoves ={ propose(f1)propose(f2).
.
.}??????????????????????????????????????????????
?A> I?ll take the 07:45 oneanswer(desired flight(X)&dept time(X, 07:45))(after contextual interpretation: answer(desired flight(f1)))??????????????????????
?private =???
?agenda = ?
findout(?x.credit-card-no(x)) ?plan = ?
book ticket ?bel ={ flight(f1)dept time(f1,0745).
.
.}???
?shared =??????????????
?global =??????
?com =??????????
?desired flight(f1)dept time(f1,0745)dept time(f2,1200)desired dest city(paris)desired dept date(13/6).
.
.??????????
?iun = ????????
?local =??
?qud = ?
?lu =?
?speaker = sysmoves ={answer(desired flight(f1)).
.
.}??????????????????????????????????????????
?Figure 4: Example dialogueeral alternative solutions to some problem, ne-gotiation may also concern matters of fact.
Thiscan be useful e.g.
in tutorial dialogue where atutor asks a question, gives some alternative an-swers, and the student?s task is to reason aboutthe different alternatives and decide on one ofthem.
In the travel agency domain, it is oftennot necessary to explicitly represent e.g.
the factthat the deciding on a flight is a precondition ofa general plan for traveling; instead, we can rep-resent it simply as a fact concerning which flightthe user wants to take.(Rose?
et al, 1995) provide an account of dis-course structure for dialogues involving severalalternatives (or ?threads?
), which appears to becompatible with the view presented here.
How-ever, the focus on discourse structures ratherthan information states and dialogue processing(in terms of information state updates) makesthis work less relevant to dialogue systems de-sign, at least from the perspective of an infor-mation state update approach.10 Conclusions and future workOn our approach, an Issue Under Negotiationis represented as a question , e.g.
what flightthe user wants.
In general, this means view-ing problems as issues and solutions as answers.This approach has several advantages.
Firstly, itprovides a straightforward an intuitively soundway of capturing the idea that negotiative di-alogue involves several alternative solutions tosome issue or problem, and that proposals in-troduce such alternatives.
Secondly, it distin-guishes two types of negotiation (dialogue nego-tiation and issue negotiation) and clarifies therelation between them.
Thirdly, since this ac-count is a natural extension of the general ideasbehind the GoDiS system (e.g.
using issues asa basis for dialogue management), it allows theuse of independently motivated theory and ma-chinery to handle a new problem.
Apart fromimplementing the theory described in this pa-per, possible future work includes applying thetheory to new domains and extending it to han-dle more complex kinds of negotiation, possiblymaking use of work on collaboration and socialaction such as (Castelfranchi et al, 2000).ReferencesH.
Aust, M. Oerder, F. Seide, and V. Steinbiss.
1994.Experience with the Philips automatic train tableinformation system.
In Proc.
of the 2nd Workshopon Interactive Voice Technology for Telecommuni-cations Applications (IVTTA), pages 67?72, Ky-oto, Japan.P.
Bohlin, R. Cooper, E. Engdahl, and S. Lars-son.
1999.
Information states and dialogue moveengines.
In J. Alexandersson, editor, IJCAI-99Workshop on Knowledge and Reasoning in Prac-tical Dialogue Systems, pages 25?32.C.
Castelfranchi, F. Dignum, C. Jonker, andJ.
Treur.
2000.
Deliberate normative agents:Principles and architecture.
In Jennings and Les-perance (Jennings and Lesperance, 2000), pages206?220.Jennifer Chu-Carroll and Sandra Carberry.
1994.
Aplan-based model for response generation in col-laborative task-oriented dialogues.
In AAAI, Vol.1, pages 799?805.H.
H. Clark.
1996.
Using Language.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Phillip R. Cohen and Hector J. Levesque.
1991.Teamwork.
Nous, 35.Robin Cooper, Stina Ericsson, Staffan Larsson,and Ian Lewin.
2001.
An information stateupdate approach to collaborative negotiation.In Peter Ku?hnlein, Hannes Rieser, and HenkZeevat, editors, BI-DIALOG 2001?Proceedingsof the 5th Workshop on Formal Semanticsand Pragmatics of Dialogue, pages 270?9,http://www.uni-bielefeld.de/BIDIALOG,June, 14th?16th.
ZiF, Univ.
Bielefeld.B.
Di Eugenio, P.W.
Jordan, R.H. Thomason, andJ.D.
Moore.
1998.
An empirical investigation ofproposals in collaborative dialogues.
In Proceed-ings of ACL?COLING 98: 36th Annual Meeting ofthe Association of Computational Linguistics and17th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pages 325?329.J.
Ginzburg.
1998.
Clarifying utterances.
In J. Hul-stijn and A. Niholt, editors, Proc.
of the TwenteWorkshop on the Formal Semantics and Pragmat-ics of Dialogues, pages 11?30, Enschede.
Univer-siteit Twente, Faculteit Informatica.Barbara [J.]
Grosz and Sarit Kraus.
1993.
Collab-orative plans for group activities.
In ProceedingsIJCAI-93, pages 367?373.N.
Jennings and Y Lesperance, editors.
2000.Proceedings of the 6th International Workshopon Agent Theories, Architectures, and Languages(ATAL?1999), Springer Lecture Notes in AI 1757.Springer Verlag, Berlin.Staffan Larsson and David Traum.
2000.
Informa-tion state and dialogue management in the trindidialogue move engine toolkit.
NLE Special Is-sue on Best Practice in Spoken Language DialogueSystems Engineering, pages 323?340.Staffan Larsson, Alexander Berman, Johan Bos,Leif Gro?nqvist, Peter Ljunglo?f, and David Traum.2000.
Trindikit 2.0 manual.
Technical Report De-liverable D5.3 - Manual, Trindi.Staffan Larsson.
2002.
Issue-based Dialogue Man-agement.
Ph.D. thesis, Go?teborg University.Ian Lewin, Robin Cooper, Stina Ericsson, and C.J.Rupp.
2000.
Dialogue moves in negotiative dia-logues.
Project deliverable 1.2, SIRIDUS.C.
P.
Rose?, B.
Di Eugenio, L. S. Levin, and C. VanEss-Dykema.
1995.
Discourse processing of di-alogues with multiple threads.
In Proc.
ACL,Boston, MIT, June.Candace L. Sidner.
1994a.
An artificial discourselanguage for collaborative negotiation.
In Proceed-ings of the forteenth National Conference of theAmerican Association for Artificial Intelligence(AAAI-94), pages 814?819.Candace.
L. Sidner.
1994b.
Negotiation in collabo-rative activity: A discourse analysis.
Knowledge-Based Systems, 7(4):265?267.
