Learning to Distinguish PP Arguments from AdjunctsAline VillavicencioComputer Laboratory, University of CambridgeJ.J Thomson Avenue, Cambridge, CB3 OFD, UKPhone: +44-1223-763642Fax: +44-1223-334678Aline.Villavicencio@cl.cam.ac.ukAbstractWords differ in the subcategorisation frames inwhich they occur, and there is a strong cor-relation between the semantic arguments of agiven word and its subcategorisation frame, sothat all its arguments should be included in itssubcategorisation frame.
One problem is posedby the ambiguity between locative prepositionalphrases as arguments of a verb or adjuncts.As the semantics for the verb is the same inboth cases, it is difficult to differentiate them,and to learn the appropriate subcategorisationframe.
We propose an approach that uses se-mantically motivated preposition selection andfrequency information to determine if a locativePP is an argument or an adjunct.
In order totest this approach, we perform an experimentusing a computational learning system that re-ceives as input utterances annotated with log-ical forms.
The results obtained indicate thatthe learner successfully distinguishes betweenarguments (obligatory and optional) and ad-juncts.1 IntroductionWords differ in the subcategorisation framesthat realise their semantic arguments, and agiven word may have several different subcate-gorisation frames.
The subcategorisation frameincludes all the complements of a given word.For instance, the sentences:?
(1)John ate?
(2)John ate the applerepresent the intransitive and transitive frames,respectively, and both are valid frames associ-ated with the word eat.
Given that the subcat-egorisation frame of a given word should onlyinclude a given constituent if it is an argument,one problem is caused by the ambiguous natureof some constituents, that can be either argu-ments or adjuncts.The ability to distinguish between subcate-gorised arguments and non-subcategorised ad-juncts is of great importance for several applica-tions, such as automatic acquisition of subcat-egorisation lexicons from data, and this prob-lem has been widely investigated.
For instance,Buchholz (1998) investigates this task using amemory-based learning approach, where the useof syntactic and contextual features results ina 91.6% accuracy in distinguishing argumentsfrom adjuncts.
Brent (1994) looks at the prob-lem from a more psychologically oriented per-spective, trying to simulate the environmentavailable to a human language learner, and us-ing binomial error estimation to derive subcat-egorisation frames for verbs, based on imper-fectly reliable local syntactic cues.
This tech-nique is able to capture the fact that the rel-ative frequency of a verb-argument sequence islikely to be higher than that of a verb-adjunctsequence.
However, the cues used in the sim-ulations are too simple to achieve high accu-racy.
Steedman (1994) suggests the use of se-mantic information to deal with this ambigu-ity, given that syntax should be as close aspossible to semantics.
Then, given that fora particular language there is a strong cor-relation between the subcategorisation framesand predicate-argument structure of a givenword, from the predicate-argument structure ofa word it is possible to infer its subcategorisa-tion frame.In terms of the difficulty of this task, Buch-holz (1998) found that in the experiments con-ducted the ambiguity presented by Preposi-tional Phrases (PPs) was the most difficult caseto classify, accounting for 23% of the errors.Moreover, Brent (1994) also found in his sim-ulations that locative adjuncts were sometimesmistaken for arguments.
In this paper we focuson the problem of distinguishing between loca-tive PPs as arguments or adjuncts, where onlyif a given locative PP is an argument is thatit should be included in the subcategorisationframe of the verb.
The approach proposed hereis to use semantically motivated preposition se-lection and frequency information to determineif a locative PP is an argument of the verb or ifit is an adjunct.
In order to test this approach,we use a computational learning system, andthe results obtained indicate the effectivenessof the approach.The wider goal of this project is to inves-tigate the process of grammatical acquisitionfrom data.
Thus, in section 2 we start by givingsome background in language acquisition em-ployed in the learning model, which is describedin section 3.
Characteristics of the ambiguitybetween arguments and adjuncts are discussedin section 4 together with the approach used todistinguish them.
In section 5 we describe anexperiment conducted to test the approach.
Wefinish with some conclusions and a discussion offuture work.2 Language AcquisitionIn trying to solve the question of how to get amachine to automatically learn language fromdata, we can look at the way people do it.
Whenwe acquire our mother language we are exposedto an environment that includes noisy and un-grammatical sentences, the potential influenceof other languages, and many other linguisticphenomena.
In spite of that, most children aresuccessful in the acquisition of a grammar in arelatively short time, acquiring a sophisticatedmechanism for expressing their ideas, based ondata that is said to be too impoverished to gen-erate such a complex capacity.
One approachto explain the acquisition of languages proposesthat children must have some innate knowledgeabout language, a Universal Grammar (UG), tohelp them overcome the problem of the povertyof the stimulus and acquire a grammar on thebasis of positive evidence only (Chomsky 1965).According to Chomsky?s Principles and Param-eters Theory (Chomsky 1981), the UG is com-posed of principles and parameters, and the pro-cess of learning a language is regarded as the set-ting of values of a number of parameters, givenexposure to this particular language.
Anotherlikely source of information that is available tochildren when learning a language is the seman-tic interpretation or related conceptual repre-sentation.
Indeed, as Steedman (1994) puts it:?Since the main thing that syntax is for ispassing concepts around, the belief that syntac-tic structure keeps as close as possible to seman-tics, and that in both evolutionary and child lan-guage acquisition terms, the early developmentof syntax amounts to little more than hangingwords onto the preexisting armatures of concep-tual structure is so simple and probable as toamount to the null hypothesis?.A third source of information can be foundin the statistical properties of the input data towhich children seem to be sensitive, as observedin recent work in psycholinguistics.3 The Learning SystemThese ideas about human language acquisitionare employed, in this work, in the construc-tion of a computational learning system thatcan learn from its linguistic environment, whichmay contain noise and ambiguities (Villavicen-cio 2002).Studies like this can not only be used to pro-vide clues about possible directions to follow inthe automatic acquisition of information fromdata, but also to help us understand better theprocess of human language learning.
However,if that is to be achieved, we need to concentrateonly on algorithms and resources that a humanlearner could employ.
Thus, there are signif-icant constraints on the assumptions that canbe made in the learning system implemented.In this way, the learner cannot have access tonegative information; it also cannot start withinformation specific to a particular language,and can only assume information that is gen-eral among human languages.
Another aspectis that learning has to be on-line and incremen-tal, with the system only processing one sen-tence at a time, without the possibility of stor-ing sentences and reprocessing previously seensentences, or doing multiple passes through thecorpus.
Moreover, the kind of data given to thelearner must be compatible with the linguisticenvironment of a child.In this work the linguistic environment of thelearner is simulated to a certain extent by us-ing spontaneous child-directed sentences in En-glish, which were extracted from the Sachs cor-pus (MacWhinney 1995) (Sachs 1983).
Some ofthe semantic and contextual information avail-able to children is introduced in the corpus byannotating the sentences with logical forms.
Atthe moment around 1,500 parents?
sentences areannotated with the corresponding logical forms.The computational learning system employedin this investigation is composed of a UG andassociated parameters, and a learning algorithm(Villavicencio 2002).
The UG is representedas a Unification-Based Generalised CategorialGrammar, and it provides the core knowledgeabout grammars that the learner has.
A learn-ing algorithm fixes the parameters of the UG tothe target language based on exposure to it.
Inthis work, this is in the form of the annotatedparents?
sentences to simulates some of the char-acteristics of the environment in which a childacquires her language.
Finally, children?s sensi-tivity to statistical properties of the data is alsosimulated to some extent in the learning system.4 Learning from Ambiguous TriggersThe learning environment to which the learneris exposed contains noise and ambiguity and thelearner has to be able to deal with these prob-lems if it is to set its parameters correctly andconverge to the target grammar.
In this workwe concentrate on the ambiguity in the form oflocative PP that can occur either as argumentsto a verb or as adjuncts.When processing a sentence the learner needsto determine appropriate syntactic categoriesfor the semantic predicates used as input in or-der to correctly set its parameters.
In mostcases, the learner is able to find the requiredsyntactic categories, using the Categorial Prin-ciples (Steedman 2000).
According to theseprinciples from the semantic interpretation ofa word and some directional information for alanguage, it is possible to determine the syntac-tic form of the corresponding category.
1 Theseprinciples help the learner to determine the sub-categorisation frame for a given word based on1These principles are closely related to the ProjectionPrinciple (Chomsky 1981) that states that the selectionalrequirements of a word are projected onto every level ofsyntactic representation.its semantic predicate.
Then, for instance, inthe sentence:?
(3)John talks to Marywith logical form?
(4) talk-communicative-act(e,x,y), john(x),comm-to(y), mary(y)the verb talks has two arguments, the NP sub-ject John, and the PP to Mary, as representedin the logical form associated with the verb,where the PP is the second argument and assuch should be included in the subcategorisationframe of the verb: (S\NP)/PP.
On the otherhand, in the sentence:?
(5)Bob eats with a forkwith logical form?
(6) eat-ingest-act(e,x), bob(x), instr-with(e,y), a(y), fork(y)the PP with a fork is not an argument of theverb eat as reflected in its logical form andshould not be included in its subcategorisationframe, which is S\NP.It means that from the logical form associ-ated with a verb, the learner can decide whethera given constituent is an argument of the verb,and should be included as its complement inthe subcategorisation frame or not.
However,one exception to this case is that of verbs oc-curring with locative PPs, which can be eitherarguments or adjuncts.
The ambiguity betweenthese cases arises because in this logical formrepresentation the logical form describing theverb with an argument locative PP is similar tothat describing the verb with an adjunct loca-tive PP.
For example, the sentence:?
(7) Bill kisses Mary in the park,with logical form:?
(8) kiss-contact-act(e,x,y), bill(x), mary(y),loc-in(e,z), the(z), park(z)exemplifies a case where the locative PP is anadjunct.
Thus it should not be included in thesubcategorisation frame of the transitive verbkiss, which is (S\NP)/NP.
On the other hand,the sentence:?
(9)Bill swims across the riverwith logical form:?
(10) swim-motion-act(e,x), bill(x), motion-across(e,y), the(y), river(y)shows a case where the PP is an (optional) argu-ment of the verb swim, and where the appropri-ate subcategorisation frame for the verb shouldinclude it ((S\NP)/PP), even though the PP isnot included in the logical form of the verb.For both sentences, the logical form has a sim-ilar structure, with both a verbal and a loca-tive predicate, with the PP not being includedin the logical form of the verb.
As a con-sequence, the logical form cannot be used tohelp the learner resolve the ambiguity: giventhe logical forms {kiss-contact-act(e,x,y), loc-in(e,z)} and {swim-motion-act(e,x), motion-across(e,y)}, which syntactic category shouldthe learner choose for each of these verbs?
Thisambiguity constitutes a significant problem forthe learner, since it has to decide whether agiven PP is functioning as a complement of averb or if it is working as an adjunct.
Threedifferent cases to which the learner is exposedare identified, based on Pustejovsky (1995) andWechsler (1995), with the PP occurring as anobligatory argument, as an optional argument,or as an adjunct2:1.
The PP is an obligatory argument ofthe verb.
For certain verbs the PP is anobligatory argument of the verb and shouldbe included in its subcategorisation frame.An instance of this case is the verb put, insentence 11:?
(11) Mary put the book on the shelf,where the verb occurs with a locative PP.Also, as the ungrammaticality of sentence12 suggests, this verb requires a locativePP:?
(12)* Mary put the bookThe appropriate syntactic category for theverb3 is ((S\NP)/PP)/NP.2.
The PP is an optional semantic argu-ment of the verb.
For example, a verbsuch as swim can occur as in sentence 9,where it is modified by a directional PPwhich is an optional argument of the verb,but this verb may also occur without thePP, as in sentence 13:?
(13) Bill swims.2In this work we classify PPs in terms of these threecases, even though more fine-grained classifications canbe used as by Pustejovsky (1995).3This work does not include, in its investigation,elliptical or noisy constructions.
Therefore, the sen-tences analysed and the frequencies reported excludethese cases.This is a case of a verb that can occur inboth constructions with the PP being a se-mantic argument, which, when occurring,must be included in the subcategorisationframe of the verb.
Consequently, the ap-propriate category for the verb swim in sen-tence 9 is (S\NP)/PP, and in 13 is S\NP.3.
The PP is an adjunct.
Adjuncts modifythe logical form of the sentence, but are notpart of the subcategorisation frame of theverb.
The PP in the park in sentence 7 is anexample of an adjunct that is neither partof the semantic argument structure of theverb kiss nor part of its subcategorisationframe.
This verb can also occur withoutthe PP, as in sentence 14:?
(14) Bill kisses Mary.The appropriate syntactic category for theverb in both sentences is (S\NP)/NP.When faced with a locative PP, the learnerhas to identify which of these cases is appro-priate.
The required subcategorisation frame isdetermined independently for each verb sense,depending on the semantic type of the verb,and on its frequency of occurrence with a par-ticular subcategorisation frame and predicateargument-structure combination.In order to determine if a locative PP is anobligatory argument of the verb, the learneruses frequency information about the occur-rence of each verb with locative PPs.
If the fre-quency with which they occur together is abovea certain threshold, the PP is considered to bean obligatory argument of the verb and includedin its subcategorisation frame.
In this case, thethreshold is set to 80% of the total occurrencesof a verb.
This is high enough for discardingadjuncts and optional arguments that occur oc-casionally, and at the same time is not highenough to be affected by the occurrence of noise.In an analysis of all the mother?s sentences inthe entire Sachs corpus, only two occurrencesof put without the locative PP were found: oneseems to be an instance of an elliptical construc-tion, and the other a derived sense.
The fre-quency with which put occurs with a locativePP correctly indicates that the PP is an argu-ment of the verb, and it needs to be includedin the subcategorisation frame of the verb.
Onthe other hand, for verbs like kiss and swim insentences like 7 and 9, the locative PP is an oc-casional constituent, with the semantics of thesentence including the location predicate only inthese cases.
The occasional occurrence of PPswith these verbs correctly indicates that theyare not obligatory arguments of the verbs.If the frequency of occurrence is not above thethreshold, then the PP can be either an optionalargument or an adjunct.
To determine if a PP isan optional argument, the learner uses informa-tion about the kind of semantic event denotedby the verb.
As Steedman (1994) notes?...
if we are asking ourselves why childrendo not classify meet as subcategorising for NPPP on the basis of sentences like (1b), we metHarry on the bus, then we are simply askingthe wrong question.
A child who learns this in-stance of the verb from this sentence must startfrom the knowledge that the denoted event is ameeting, and that this involves a transitive eventconcept?.Thus, when the learner receives an input sen-tence, it uses semantic information about thekind of event denoted by the verb and prepo-sition given in the logical form associated withthe sentence to check if the preposition can beselected by the verb.
This approach to iden-tify non-obligatory argument PPs is based onWechsler?s proposal of semantically motivatedpreposition selection (Wechsler 1995), where aPP is an argument of a verb if it can be selectedby the verb on pragmatic grounds.
The learnerrepresents pragmatic knowledge in terms of ahierarchy of types and words are classified ac-cording to these types, based on the seman-tics associated with them.4 A verb can selecta preposition as an argument if the latter is ofthe same type as the verb, or of one of its sub-types in the hierarchy.
A fragment of such ahierarchy is shown in figure 1.
Then, a verbsuch as talk (in John talks to Mary), which asspecified in the logical form (in 4) denotes acommunicative event and is an instance of typecommunicative-act, can select as its optionalargument a preposition such as to, which is oftype comm-to, because the latter type is asubtype of the former on the world knowledge4In this work we do not address the issue of how sucha pragmatic hierarchy would be constructed and we as-sume that it is already in place.
However, for a relatedtask, see Green (1997). 	    fffifl    ffiffi !"ff"fifl #$" ffi%!ff"fifl &  "$&' ( )&)* + , ' - .
, / 0 1 - ' .'
( ))!1 .
( ' ( ))!1 - 2 ( * .
)&( .
, ( + 1 - ' .3, 4 0 ' .
031 )&( .
, ( +)!
( .
, ( + 1 - ' 4 ( 5 56( 4 731 8 + ( 67 03 90.
4 - + 5 : 0 4 1 - ' .. 4 - + 5 : 0 4 1 .
(Figure 1: Fragment of Hierarchy of WorldKnowledgehierarchy.
On the other hand, this verb doesnot select a preposition such as across of typemotion-across as its argument, in a sentencesuch as Bill talked about his treatment acrossthe country, because their types do not unify.In this case, the PP is an adjunct to the verb.However, this preposition can be selected as theargument of the verb swim in sentence 9, whichdenotes a motion event and is an instance oftypemotion-act.
As words are associated withtypes in the hierarchy, the lower in the hierarchya given word is, the more constrained its selec-tional possibilities are (as discussed by Wech-sler (1995)).
In this way, the pragmatic knowl-edge confirms certain PPs as arguments of someverbs, while rejecting others.If a locative PP is rejected as argument ofa verb on pragmatic grounds, then the PP istreated as an adjunct and is not included in thesubcategorisation frame of the verb.
Once thelearner decides which is the case for a particu-lar verb PP combination, it uses the triggeringinformation, including the appropriate subcat-egorisation frame of the verb, for further pro-cessing.5 Argument or Adjunct?To test this approach we conducted an exper-iment where the learner is evaluated in termsof three different verbs: put where the PP isan obligatory argument, come, where the loca-tive PP is an optional argument, and draw (inthe sense of drawing a picture) where the PP isan adjunct.
These verbs are representative ofeach case and the sentences in which they occurare taken from the mother?s section of the com-plete Sachs corpus, which is the largest of theparents?
sections.
The status of the locative PPsoccurring with these verbs is determined follow-ing syntactic tests for argument structure.
Thespecific test used in this case is the ?do so?
test,which is a standard test for argument structure,as discussed by Verspoor (1997).
In this test,the claim is that a complete complement canbe replaced by ?do so?.
In the case of obliga-tory arguments, only the full constituent verbPP or verb NP PP can be replaced by do so,while in the case of adjuncts, the verb or verbNP constituent can also be replaced by do so.Sentences 15 to 23 indicate that the PPs arearguments of the verbs put and come, and ad-juncts of the verb draw.?
(15) You put Goldie through the chimney?
(16) You put Goldie through the chimneyand Bob also did so?
(17) * You put Goldie through the chimneyand Bob did so through the window?
(18) You came from the garden?
(19) You came from the garden and Johnalso did so?
(20) * You came from the garden and Johndid so from the kitchen?
(21) You drew in the park?
(22) You drew in the park and John also didso?
(23) You drew in the park and John did soin the gardenIn these experiments, the learner is given asinput sentences from the annotated Sachs cor-pus (all previously unseen), among which arethe ambiguous cases, as shown in table 1, col-lected from the mother?s corpus.
The learnerprocesses each sentence, having to determinevalid syntactic category assignments for eachword in the sentence (Villavicencio 2002) (Wal-dron 2000), and based on these, setting theparameters of the UG.
For each sentence thelearner collects information about the words,their corresponding logical forms, syntactic cat-egories, and frequency of occurrence.
When thelearner is faced with an ambiguous sentence, itneeds to disambiguate the PP as argument oradjunct of the verb.
It first checks if the fre-quency of occurrence of the verb with locativePPs as seen so far is above the threshold of 80%,in which case the PP is considered to be anobligatory argument of the verb.
Otherwise, thelearner checks if the verb can select the PP onpragmatic grounds, based on the pragmatic hi-erarchy the learner has, and on the logical formassociated with the words.
If so, the PP is anoptional complement of the verb.
On the otherhand, if this is not the case, then the PP is con-sidered to be an adjunct.
After deciding, thelearner proceeds with the setting of parametersand collects the new frequencies, as describedabove, and goes on to process the next sentence.Table 1: Disambiguation of Locative PPsVerb Sentences Totalwith PPs Sentencesput 137 137come 24 32draw 9 21The results obtained for each of these threeverbs are that the learner correctly selects theappropriate subcategorisation frame in all ofthese cases, which confirms the effectiveness ofthe proposed approach to disambiguate locativePPs.
In terms of frequency of occurrence of theverbs with the locative PPs, other verbs in themother?s sentences from the entire Sachs corpusalso have a similar pattern, with the locative PPbeing frequent for obligatory arguments of theverb, and less frequent for the other cases:?
stay, which according to the ?do-so?
testhas an obligatory locative PP argument,occurs in 100% of the cases with locativePPs,?
come, which has optional locative PP ar-guments, occurs in 69.6% of the cases withlocative PPs, and all of these can be seman-tically selected by the verb,?
eat, as a transitive verb which does nothave a locative PP argument, occurs inonly 1.23% of the cases with locative PPs,and?
play, as an intransitive verb also does nothave a PP argument, is in 40% of the caseswith a locative PP.These results indicate that the proposed ap-proach indeed helps the learner to disambiguatebetween locative PPs as arguments or adjunctbased on frequency information and semanti-cally motivated selection.
Such an approachprovides a possible way forward in which to dealwith this problem for the research in the area.It follow Steedman?s suggestion about the useof semantic information, and similarly to Brentand Buchholz it uses local information to dealwith this ambiguity, in a setting that is compat-ible with some studies on language acquisition.6 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper we described one possible ap-proach to deal with the problem of disambiguat-ing between arguments or adjuncts.
This ap-proach is tested by a learning system used to in-vestigate the automatic acquisition of languagefrom data.
The learning system is equippedwith a plausible model of the Universal Gram-mar and it has to set its parameters to the targetlanguage based on the input data.
The ambi-guity between arguments and adjuncts is one ofseveral difficulties encountered by the learningsystem during the acquisition process and theapproach proposed to overcome this problem,proved to be effective and helped the learnerdecide the appropriate case for the ambiguitiesfound in the data available.
The implementedlearning system can successfully learn from acorpus of real child-directed data, containingnoise and ambiguity, in a more realistic accountof parameter setting (Villavicencio 2002).Disambiguation based on frequency informa-tion and semantically motivated selection pro-vides a plausible strategy, compatible with someresearch on language acquisition.
Although thisis primarily a cognitive computational model,it is potentially relevant to the development ofmore adaptive NLP technology, by indicatingpossible paths for future developments in thearea.
However, larger scale tests still need to beconducted to see how the approach would gener-alise, and for that we need more annotated data.These two tasks of annotating more data andundertaking this larger scale investigation areincluded in the future directions of this work.AcknowledgmentsThanks to Francis Bond for comments on thispaper.
This research was supported in part bythe NTT/Stanford Research Collaboration, re-search project on multiword expressions, and byCAPES/Brazil.ReferencesMichael R. Brent.
Surface Cues and Robust In-ference as a Basis for the Early Acquisitionof Subcategorization Frames.
In L. Gleitmanand B. Landau eds.
The Acquisition of theLexicon, 1994.Sabine Buchholz.
Distinguishing Complementsfrom Adjuncts Using Memory-Based Learn-ing.
In B. Keller ed.
?Proceedings of theESSLLI-98 Workshop on Automated Acqui-sition of Syntax and Parsing, 1998.Noam Chomsky.
Aspects of the Theory of Syn-tax.
MIT Press, 1965.Noam Chomsky.
Lectures on Government andBinding.
Foris Publications, 1981.Georgia M. Green.
Modelling GrammarGrowth: Universal Grammar without In-nate Principles or Parameters.
Unpublishedmanuscript prepared for GALA97 Conferenceon Language Acquisition, Edinburgh, 1997.Brian MacWhinney.
The CHILDES Project:Tools for Analyzing Talk.
Second Edition,1995.James Pustejovsky.
The Generative Lexicon.MIT Press, 1995.Jacqueline Sachs.
Talking about the There andThen: the Emergence of Displaced Referencein Parent-Child Discourse.
In K. E. Nelsoneditor, Children?s language, v.4, 1983.Mark Steedman.
Acquisition of Verb Cate-gories.
In L. Gleitman and B. Landau eds.The Acquisition of the Lexicon, 1994.Mark Steedman.
The Syntactic Process.
TheMIT Press, 2000.Cornelia M. Verspoor.
Contextually-DependentLexical Semantics.
PhD Thesis, University ofEdinburgh, 1997.Aline Villavicencio.
The Acquisition of aUnification-Based Generalised CategorialGrammar.
PhD Thesis, University of Cam-bridge, 2001.
Available as Technical ReportN.
UCAM-CL-TR-533, 2002.Ben Waldron.
Learning Natural Languagewithin the Framework of Categorial Gram-mar.
Proceedings of the Third CLUK Col-loquium, 2000.Stephen Wechsler.
The Semantic Basis of Ar-gument Structures.
CSLI Publications, 1995.
