Balancing Expressiveness and Simplicityin an Interlingua for Task Based DialogueLori Levin, Donna Gates, Dorcas Wallace,Kay Peterson, Alon LavieLanguage Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213email: lsl@cs.cmu.eduFabio Pianesi, Emanuele Pianta,Roldano Cattoni, Nadia ManaIRST-itc, ItalyAbstractIn this paper we compare two interlin-gua representations for speech transla-tion.
The basis of this paper is a distri-butional analysis of the C-star II andNespole databases tagged with inter-lingua representations.
The C-star IIdatabase has been partially re-taggedwith the Nespole interlingua, whichenables us to make comparisons on thesame data with two types of interlin-guas and on two types of data (C-star II and Nespole) with the sameinterlingua.
The distributional infor-mation presented in this paper showthat the Nespole interlingua main-tains the language-independence andsimplicity of the C-star II speech-act-based approach, while increasing se-mantic expressiveness and scalability.1 IntroductionSeveral speech translation projects have choseninterlingua-based approaches because of its con-venience (especially in adding new languages)in multi-lingual projects.
However, interlinguadesign is notoriously dicult and inexact.
Themain challenge is deciding on the grain size ofmeaning to represent and what facets of mean-ing to include.
This may depend on the do-main and the contexts in which the translationsystem is used.
For projects that take place atmultiple research sites, another factor becomesimportant in interlingua design: if the interlin-gua is too complex, it cannot be used reliably byresearchers at remote sites.
Furthermore, the in-terlingua should not be biased toward one fam-ily of languages.
Finally, an interlingua shouldclearly distinguish general and domain speciccomponents for easy scalability and portabilitybetween domains.Sections 2 and 3 describe how we balancedthe factors of grain-size, language independence,and simplicity in two interlinguas for speechtranslation projects | the C-star II Inter-change Format (Levin et al, 1998) and the Ne-spole Interchange Format.
Both interlinguasare based in the framework of domain actionsas described in (Levin et al, 1998).
We willshow that the Nespole interlingua has a nergrain-size of meaning, but is still simple enoughfor collaboration across multiple research sites,and still maintains language-independence.Section 4 will address the issue of scalabil-ity of interlinguas based on domain actions tolarger domains.
The basis of Section 4 is a dis-tributional analysis of the C-star II and Ne-spole databases tagged with interlingua repre-sentations.
The C-star II database has beenpartially re-tagged with the Nespole interlin-gua, which enables us to make comparisons onthe same data with two types of interlinguas andon two types of data (C-star II and Nespole)with the same type of interlingua.2 The C-star II Domain, Database,and InterlinguaThe C-star II interlingua (Levin et al, 1998)was developed between 1997 and 1999 for usein the C-star II 1999 demo (www.c-star.org).Association for Computational Linguistics.Algorithms and Systems, Philadelphia, July 2002, pp.
53-60.Proceedings of the Workshop on Speech-to-Speech Translation:c: can I have some flight timesthat would leave some time around June sixtha: the there are several flights leaving D Cthere?d be one at one twenty fourthere?s a three fifty nine flightthat arrives at four fifty eight...what time would you like to goc: I would take the last one that you mentioned...a: what credit card number would you liketo reserve this withc: I have a visa cardand the number is double oh five threethree one one sixninety nine eighty sevena okayc: the expiration date is eleven ninety seven...a okay they should be ready tomorrowc: okay thank you very muchFigure 1: Excerpt from a C-star II dialoguewith six participating research sites.
The seman-tic domain was travel, including reservationsand payments for hotels, tours, and transporta-tion.
Figure 1 shows a sample dialogue fromthe C-star II database.
(C is the client and ais the travel agent.)
The C-star II databasecontains 2278 English sentences and 7148 non-English (Japanese, Italian, Korean) sentencestagged with interlingua representations.
Mostof the database consists of transcripts of role-playing conversations.The driving concept behind the C-star IIinterlingua is that there are a limited num-ber of actions in the domain | requesting theprice of a room, telling the price of a room,requesting the time of a flight, giving a creditcard number, etc.
| and that each utter-ance can be classied as an instance of oneof these domain actions .
Figure 2 illustratesthe components of the C-star II interlingua:(1) the speaker tag, in this case c for client,(2) a speech act (request-action), (3) a listof concepts (reservation, temporal, hotel),(4) arguments (e.g., time), and (5) values of ar-guments.
The C-star II interlingua specica-tion document contains denitions for 44 speechacts, 93 concepts, and 117 argument names.The domain action is the part of the interlin-gua consisting of the speech act and concepts, inthis case request-action+reservation+tem-poral+hotel.
The domain action does not in-clude the list of argument-value pairs.First it is important to point out that do-main actions are created compositionally.
A do-main action consists of a speech act followed byzero or more concepts.
(Recall that argument-value pairs are not part of the domain action.
)The Nespole interlingua includes 65 speechacts and 110 concepts.
An interlingua speci-cation document denes the legal combinationsof speech acts and arguments.The linguistic justication for an interlinguabased on domain-actions is that many travel do-main utterances contain xed, formulaic phrases(e.g., can you tell me; I was wondering; howabout; would you mind, etc.)
that signal domainactions, but either do not translate literally intoother languages or have a meaning that is su-ciently indirect that the literal meaning is irrele-vant for translation.
To take two examples, howabout as a signal of a suggestion does not trans-late into other languages with the words corre-sponding to how and about .
Also, would youmind might translate literally into some Euro-pean languages as a way of signaling a request,but the literal meaning of minding is not rel-evant to the translation, only the fact that itsignals politeness.The measure of success for the domain-actionbased interlingua (as described in (Levin et al,2000a)) is that (1) it covers the data in the C-star II database with less than 8% no-tag rate,(2) inter-coder agreement across research sitesis reasonably high: 82% for speech acts, 88%for concepts, and 65% for domain actions, and(3) end-to-end translation results using an an-alyzer and generator written at dierent siteswere about the same as end-to-end translationresults using an analyzer and generator writtenat the same site.3 The Nespole Domain, Database,and InterlinguaThe Nespole interlingua has been under devel-opment for the last two years as part of the Ne-spole project (http://nespole.itc.it).
Fig-I would like to make a hotel reservation for the fourth throughthe seventh of julyc:request-action+reservation+temporal+hotel(time=(start-time=md4, end-time=(md7, july)))Figure 2: Example of a C-star II interlingua representationure 3 shows a Nespole dialogue.
The Ne-spole domain does not include reservations andpayments, but includes more detailed inquiriesabout hotels and facilities for ski vacations andsummer vacations in Val di Fiemme, Italy.
(Thetourism board of the Trentino area is a partnerof the Nespole project.)
Most of the databaseconsists of transcripts of dialogues between anItalian-speaking travel agent and an English orGerman speaker playing the role of a traveller.There are fewer xed, formulaic phrases in theNespole domain, prompting us to move towarddomain actions that are more general, and alsorequiring more detailed interlingua representa-tions.
Changes from the C-star II interlinguafall into several categories:1.
Extending semantic expressivity andsyntactic coverage: Increased coverage ofmodality, tense, aspect, articles, fragments,coordinate structures, number, and rhetor-ical relations.
In addition, we have addedmore explicit representation of grammati-cal relations and improved capabilities forrepresenting modication and embedding.2.
Additional Domain-Specic Con-cepts: New concepts include givingdirections, describing sizes and dimensionsof objects, traveling routes, equipment andgear, airports, tourist services, facilities,vehicles, information objects (brochures,web pages, rules and regulations), hoursof operation of businesses and attractions,etc.3.
Utterances that accompany multi-modal gestures: The Nespole systemincludes capabilities to share web pagesand draw marks such as circles and arrowson web pages.
The interlingua was ex-tended to cover colord, descriptions of two-dimensional objects, and actions of show-ing.4.
General concept names from Word-Net: The Nespole interlingua includesconventions for making new concept namesbased on WordNet synsets.5.
More general domain actions replac-ing specic ones: For example, replacinghotel with accommodation.Interlinguas based on domain actions con-trast with interlinguas based on lexical seman-tics (Dorr, 1993; Lee et al, 2001; Goodman andNirenburg, 1991).
A lexical-semantic interlinguaincludes a representation of predicates and theirarguments.
For example, the sentence I want totake a vacation has a predicate want with twoarguments I and to take a vacation, which inturn has a predicate take and two arguments, Iand a vacation.
Of course, predicates like takemay be represented as word senses that are lesslanguage-dependent like participate-in.
Thestrength and weakness of the lexical-semanticapproach is that it is less domain dependentthan the domain-action approach.In order to cover the less formulaic utterancesof the Nespole domain, we have taken a stepcloser to the lexical-semantic approach.
How-ever, we have maintained the overall frameworkof the domain-action approach because there arestill many formulaic utterances that are betterrepresented in a non-literal way.
Also, in or-der to abstract away from English syntax, con-cepts such as disposition, eventuality, and obli-gation are not represented in the interlingua asargument-taking main verbs in order to accom-modate languages in which these meanings arec: and I have some questions about coming about a trip I?m gonna be taking to Trentoa: okay what are your questionsc: I currently have a hotel booking at thePanorama-Hotel in Panchia but at the moment I have no idea how to get to my hotel from Trentoand I wanted to ask what would be the best way for me to get therea: okay I?m gonna show you a map that and then describe the directions to youokay so right so you will arrive in the train station in Trentothe that is shown in the middle of the map stazione FFSSand just below that here is a bus stop labeled number fortyso okay on the map that I?m showing you herethe hotel is the orange building off on the right hand side...c: I also wanted to ask about skiing in the area once I?m in Panchiaa: all right just a moment and I?ll show you another mapc: okaya: okay so on the map you see now Panchia is right in the center of the mapc: I see itFigure 3: Excerpt from a Nespole dialoguerepresented as adverbs or suxes on verbs.
Fig-ure 4 shows the Nespole interlingua represen-tation corresponding to the C-star II interlin-gua in Figure 2.
The specication document forthe Nespole interlingua denes 65 speech acts,110 concepts, 292 arguments, and 7827 valuesgrouped into 222 value classes.
As in the C-star II interlingua, domain actions are denedcompositionally from speech acts and argumentsin combinations that are allowed by the interlin-gua specication.3.1 Comparison of Nespole andC-star II InterlinguasIt is useful to compare the Nespole and C-star II Interlinguas in expressivity, language in-dependence, and simplicity.Expressivity of the Nespole interlingua,Argument 1: The metric we use for expres-sivity is the no-tag rate in the databases.
Theno-tag rate is the percentage of sentences thatcannot be assigned an interlingua representationby a human expert.
The C-star II databasetagged with C-star II interlingua had a no-tag rate of 7.3% (Levin et al, 2000a).
TheC-star II database tagged with Nespole in-terlingua has a no-tag rate of 2.4%.
More than300 English sentences in the C-star II databasethat were not covered by the C-star II interlin-gua are now covered by the Nespole interlin-gua.
(See Table 2.)
We conclude from this thatthe Nespole interlingua is more expressive inthat it covers more data.Language-independence of the Nespoleinterlingua: We do not have a numericalmeasure of language-independence, but we notethat interlinguas based on domain actions areparticularly suitable for avoiding translationmismatches (Dorr, 1994), particularly head-switching mismatches (e.g., I just arrived andJe vient d?arriver where the meaning of recentpast is expressed by an adverb just or a syn-tactic verb vient (venir).)
Interlinguas basedon domain actions resolve head-switching mis-matches by identifying the types of meaningsthat are often involved in mismatches | modal-ity, evidentiality, disposition, and so on | andassigning them a representation that abstractsaway from predicate argument structure.
In-terlinguas based on domain actions also neu-tralize the dierent ways of expressing indirectspeech acts within and across languages (for ex-ample, Would you mind..., I was wondering ifyou could...., and Please.... as ways of request-ing an action).
Although Nespole domain ac-tions are more general than C-star II domainactions, they maintain language independenceby abstracting away from predicate-argumentstructure.Simplicity and cross-site reliability of theNespole interlingua: Simplicity of an inter-lingua is measured by cross-site reliability inI would like to make a hotel reservation for the fourth throughthe seventh of julyC-star II Interlingua:c:request-action+reservation+temporal+hotel(time=(start-time=md4, end-time=(md7, july)))Nespole Interlingua:c:give-information+disposition+reservation+accommodation(disposition=(who=i, desire),reservation-spec=(reservation, identifiability=no),accommodation-spec=hotel,object-time=(start-time=(md=4), end-time=(md=7, month=7, incl-excl=inclusive)))}Figure 4: Example of Nespole interlingua representationinter-coder agreement and end-to-end transla-tion performance.
At the time of writing this pa-per we have not conducted cross-site inter-coderagreement experiments using the Nespole in-terlingua.
We have, however, conducted cross-site evaluations (Lavie et al, 2002), in which theanalyzer and generator were written at dier-ent sites.
Experiments at the end of C-star IIshowed that cross-site evaluations were compa-rable to intra-site evaluations (analyzer and gen-erator written at the same site) (Levin et al,2000b).
Nespole evaluations so far show a lossof cross-site reliability: intra-site evaluations arenoticeably better than cross-site evaluations, asreported in (Lavie et al, 2002).
This seems toindicate that developers at dierent sites havea lower level of agreement on the Nespole in-terlingua.
However there are other possible ex-planations for the discrepancy | for exampledevelopers at dierent sites may have focusedtheir development on dierent sub-domains |that are currently under investigation.4 Scalability of the NespoleInterlinguaThe rest of this paper addresses the scalabilityof the Nespole interlingua.
A possible criti-cism of domain actions is that they are domaindependent and that the number of domain ac-tions might increase too quickly with the sizeof the domain.
In this section, we will examinethe rate of increase in the number of domain ac-tions as a function of the amount of data andthe diversity of the data.Dierences in the C-star and Nespole Do-mains: We will rst show that the C-starand Nespole domains are signicantly dierenteven though they both pertain to travel.
Thecombination of the two domains is therefore sig-nicantly larger than either domain alone.In order to demonstrate the dierences be-tween the C-star travel domain and the Ne-spole travel domain, we measured the overlapin vocabulary.
The numbers in Table 4 are basedon the rst 7900 word tokens in the C-star En-glish database and the rst 7900 word tokensin the Nespole English database.
The tableshows the number of unique word types in eachdatabase, the number of word types that occurin both databases, and the number of word typesthat occur in one of the databases, but not in theother.
In each database, about half of the wordtypes overlap with the other database.
The non-overlapping vocabulary (402 C-star word typesand 344 Nespole word types) indicates that thetwo databases cover quite dierent aspects of thetravel domain.Scalability: Argument 1: We will now be-gin to address the issue of scalability of thedomain action approach to interlingua design.Our rst argument concerns the number ofNumber of unique word typesCSTAR English 745Nespole English 687Word types in both CSTAR and Nespole 343Words types in CSTAR not in Nespole 402Words types n Nespole not in CSTAR 344Table 1: Number of overlapping word types in the C-star English and Nespole EnglishdatabasesSA Con.
Snts.
Domain Ac-tionsOld C-star English 44 93 2278 358New C-star English 65 110 2564 452Nespole English 65 110 1446 337Nespole German 65 110 3298 427Nespole Italian 65 110 1063 206Table 2: Number of unique domain actions in interlingua databasesspeech acts and concepts in the combined C-star/Nespole domain.
The C-star II in-terlingua, designed for coverage of the C-startravel domain, included 44 speech acts and 93concepts.
The Nespole interlingua, designedfor coverage of the combined C-star and Ne-spole domains, has 65 speech acts and 110 con-cepts.
Thus a relatively small increase in thenumber of speech acts and concepts is requiredto cover a signicantly larger domain.The increased size of the C-star/Nepsoledomain is reflected in the number of argumentsand values.
The C-star II interlingua containeddenitions for 117 arguments, whereas the Ne-spole interlingua contains denitions for 292 ar-guments.
The number of values for argumentsalso has increased signicantly in the Nespoledomain.
There are 7827 values grouped into 222classes (airport names, days of the week, etc.
).Distributional Data: number of domainactions in each database: Next we willpresent distributional data concerning the num-ber of domain actions as a function of databasesize.
We will compare several databases: OldC-star English (around 2278 sentences taggedwith C-star II interlingua), New C-star En-glish (2564 sentences tagged with Nespole in-terlingua, including the 2278 sentences from OldC-star English), Nespole English, NespoleGerman, and Nespole Italian.
Table 2 showsthe number of sentences and the number of do-main actions in each database.
The number ofdomain actions refers to the number of types,not tokens, of domain actions.Distributional data: Coverage of the top50 domain actions: Table 3 shows the per-centage of each database that is covered by the5, 10, 20, and 50 most frequent domain actionsin that database.
For each database, the do-main actions were ordered by frequency.
Thepercentage of sentences covered by the top-ndomain actions was then calculated.
For thisexperiment, we separated sentences spoken bythe traveller (client) and sentences spoken bythe travel agent (agent).
C-star data in Ta-ble 3 refers to 2564 English sentences from theC-star database that were tagged with Ne-spole interlingua.
Nespole data refers to theEnglish portion of the Nespole database (1446sentences).
Combined data refers to the combi-nation of the two (4014 sentences).Two points are worth noting about Table 3.First, the Nespole agent data has a higher cov-erage rate than the Nespole client data.
Thatis, more data is covered by the top-n domainactions.
This may be because there was wasDomain Actions Top 5 Top 10 Top 20 Top 50ClientC-star data 33.6 42.7 53.1 66.7Nespole data 31.7 43.5 53.9 66.5Combined data 31.6 40.0 50.3 62.9AgentC-star data 33.8 42.8 54.1 67.3Nespole data 39.0 47.8 56.1 71.4Combined data 33.6 41.5 51.7 64.0Table 3: DA Coverage using Nespole interlingua on English data for both C-star andNespoleonly a small amount of English agent data andit was spoken by non-native speakers.
Second,the combined data has a slightly lower cover-age rate than either the C-star or Nespoledatabases alone.
This is expected because, asshown above, the combined domain is signi-cantly more diverse than either domain by itself.Scalability: Argument 2: Table 3 providesadditional evidence for the scalability of the Ne-spole interlingua to larger domains.
In thecombined C-star and Nespole domain, thetop 50 domain actions cover only slightly lessdata than the top 50 domain actions in eitherdomain separately.
There is not, in fact, an ex-plosion of domain actions when the two C-starand Nespole domains are combined.Distributional Data: domain actions as afunction of database size: Table 3 showsthat in each of our databases, the 50 most fre-quent domain actions cover approximately 65%of the sentences.
The next issue we address isthe nature of the \tail" of less frequent domainactions covering the remainder of the data.Figure 5 shows the number of domain actionsas a function of data set size.
Sampling was donefor intervals of 25 sentences starting at 100 sen-tences.
For each sample size s there was ten-foldcross-validation.
Ten random samples of size swere chosen, and the number of dierent domainactions in each sample was counted.
The aver-age of the number of domain actions in each ofthe ten samples of size s are plotted in Figure 5.The four databases represented in Figure 5 areIF Coverage of Four Datasets01002003004005006007001007001300190025003100number of SDUs in sampleaveragenumber of uniqueDAsover10randomsamplesOld CSTARNew CSTARNESPOLECombinedFigure 5: Number of domain actions as a function ofdatabase sizethe C-star English database tagged with C-star II interlingua, the C-star II databasetagged with Nespole interlingua, the NespoleEnglish database, and the combined C-starand Nespole English databases.Expressivity, Argument 2: Figure 5 pro-vides evidence for the increased expressivity ofthe Nespole interlingua.
In contrast to Ta-ble 3, which deals with samples containing themost frequent domain actions, the samples plot-ted in Figure 5 contain random mixtures of fre-quent and non-frequent domain actions.
Thecurve representing the C-star data with C-star II interlingua is the slowest growing of thefour curves.
This is because the grain-size ofmeaning represented in the C-star II interlin-gua was larger than in the Nespole interlin-gua.
Also many infrequent domain actions werenot covered by the C-star II interlingua.
Thefaster growth of the curve representing the C-star data with Nespole interlingua indicatesimproved expressivity of the Nespole interlin-gua | it covers more of the infrequent domainactions.
The highest curve in Figure 5 repre-sents the combined C-star and Nespole do-mains.
This curve is higher than the others be-cause, as shown above, the two travel domainsare signicantly dierent from each other.Expressivity and Simplicity, the right bal-ance: Comparing Table 3 and Figure 5, we ar-gue that the Nespole interlingua strikes a goodbalance between expressivity and simplicity.
Ta-ble 3 shows evidence for the simplicity of the Ne-spole interlingua: Only 50 domain actions areneeded to cover 60-70% of the sentences in thedatabase.
Figure 5 shows evidence for expressiv-ity: because domain actions are compositionallyformed from speech acts and concepts, it is pos-sible to form a large number of low-frequencydomain actions in order to cover the domain.Over 600 domain actions are used in the com-bined C-star and Nespole domains.5 ConclusionsWe have presented a comparison of a purelydomain-action-based interlingua (the C-star IIinterlingua) and a more expressive, but stilldomain-action-based interlingua (the Nespoleinterlingua).
The data that we have presentedshow that the more expressive interlingua hasbetter coverage of the domain (a decrease from7.3% to 2.4% uncovered data in the C-star IIdomain) and can also scale up to larger domainswithout an explosion of domain actions.
Thuswe have a reasonable compromise between sim-plicity and expressiveness of the interlingua.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to acknowledge Hans-Ulrich Blockfor rst proposing the domain-action-based in-terlingua to the C-star consortium.
We wouldalso like to thank all of the C-star and Ne-spole partners who have participated in the de-sign of the interlingua.
This work was supportedby NSF Grant 9982227 and EU Grant IST 1999-11562 as part of the joint EU/NSF MLIAM re-search initiative.ReferencesBonnie J. Dorr.
1993.
Machine Translation: A Viewfrom the Lexicon.
The MIT Press, Cambridge,Massachusetts.Bonnie J. Dorr.
1994.
Machine Translation Diver-gences: A Formal Description and Proposed Solu-tion.
Computational Linguistics, 20(4):597{633.Kenneth Goodman and Sergei Nirenburg.
1991.The KBMT Project: A Case Study in Knowledge-Based Machine Translation.
Morgan Kaufmann,San Mateo, CA.Alon Lavie, Florian Metze, Roldano Cattoni, and Er-ica Constantini.
2002.
A Multi-Perspective Eval-uation of the NESPOLE!
Speech-to-Speech Trans-lation System.
In Proceedings of Speech-to-SpeechTranslation: Algorithms and Systems.Young-Suk Lee, W. Yi, Cliord Weinstein, andStephanie Sene.
2001.
Interlingua-based broad-coverage korean-to-english translation.
In Pro-ceedings of HLT, San Diego.Lori Levin, Donna Gates, Alon Lavie, and AlexWaibel.
1998.
An Interlingua Based on DomainActions for Machine Translation of Task-OrientedDialogues.
In Proceedings of the InternationalConference on Spoken Language Processing (IC-SLP?98), pages Vol.
4, 1155{1158, Sydney, Aus-tralia.Lori Levin, Donna Gates, Alon Lavie, Fabio Pianesi,Dorcas Wallace, Taro Watanabe, and MonikaWoszczyna.
2000a.
Evaluation of a Practical In-terlingua for Task-Oriented Dialogue.
In Work-shop on Applied Interlinguas: Practical Applica-tions of Interlingual Approaches to NLP, Seattle.Lori Levin, Alon Lavie, Monika Woszczyna, DonnaGates, Marsal Gavalda, Detlef Koll, and AlexWaibel.
2000b.
The Janus-III Translation Sys-tem.
Machine Translation.
