The PAPILLON project: cooperatively building a multilingual lexicaldata-base to derive open source dictionaries & lexiconsChristian BOITET(1), Mathieu MANGEOT(2) & Gilles S?RASSET(1)(1) GETA, CLIPS, IMAG385, av.
de la biblioth?que, BP 53F-38041 Grenoble cedex 9, FranceChristian.Boitet@imag.fr(2) National Institute of Informatics (NII)2-1-2-1314, HitotsubashiChiyoda-ku Tokyo 101-8430, JapanMathieu.Mangeot@imag.frAbstractThe PAPILLON project aims at creating a cooperative, free, permanent, web-oriented and personalizable environment for thedevelopment and the consultation of a multilingual lexical database.
The initial motivation is the lack of dictionaries, both forhumans and machines, between French and many Asian languages.
In particular, although there are large F-J paper usagedictionaries, they are usable only by Japanese literates, as they never contain both original (kanji/kana) and romaji writing.This applies as well to Thai, Vietnamese, Lao, etc.IntroductionThe project was initiated in 2000 and launchedwith the support of the French Embassy and NII(Tokyo) in July 2000, and took really shape in2001, with a technical seminar in July 2001 atGrenoble, and concrete work (data gathering,tool building, etc.
).The macrostructure of Papillon is a set ofmonolingual dictionaries (one for each language)of word senses, called "lexies", linked through acentral set of interlingual links, called "axies".This pivot macrostructure has been defined byS?rasset (1994) and experimented by Blanc(1994) in the PARAX mockup.The microstructure of the monolingualdictionaries is the "DiCo" structure, which is asimplification of Mel'tchuk's (1981;1987;1995)DEC (Explanatory and CombinatoryDictionary) designed by Polgu?re (2000) &Mel'tchuk !
"# make it possible to constructlarge, detailed and principled dictionaries intractable time.1.
Languages included in the projectIn 2000, the initial languages of the Papillonproject were English, French, Japanese and Thai.Thai was included because there had been asuccessful project, SAIKAM (Ampornaramvethet al 1998; 2000), supported by NII andNECTEC, of building a Japanese-Thai lexicon byvolunteers on the web.
Lao, Vietnamese, andMalay have been added in 2001 because of activeinterest of labs and individuals.The star-like macrostructure of Papillon makesit easy to add a new language.
Also, the DiComicrostructure of each monolingual dictionary isdefined by an XML schema, containing a largecommon core and a small specialization part(morphosyntactic categories, language usage).2.
Interlingual linksAxies, also called "interlingual acceptions", arenot concepts, but simply interlingual linksbetween lexies, motivated by translations foundin existing dictionaries or proposed by thecontributors.In case of discrepancies, 1 axie may be linkedwith lexies of some languages only, e.g.FR(mur#1), EN(wall#1), RU(stena#1), and t oother axies by refinement links:Example:Axie#234 --lg--> FR(mur#1),EN(wall#1), RU(stena#1)--rf--> Axie#235, Axie#236Axie#235 --lg--> DE(Wand#2),IT(muro#1), ES(muro#1)Axie#236 --lg--> DE(Mauer#2),IT(parete#1), ES(pared#1)It is also possible to have 2 axies for the same"concept" at a certain stage in the life of thedatabase, because the monolingual information isnot yet detailed enough.Suppose the level of language (usual, specialized,vulgar, familiar?)
is not yet given forFR(maladie#1), FR(affection#2), EN(disease#1),EN(affection#3).Then we might have, for translational reasons:Axie#456--lg-->FR(maladie#1),EN(disease#1)Axie#457--lg-->FR(affection#2),EN(affection#3)When this information will be put in each of theabove 4 monolingual entries, we may merge the2 axies and get:Axie#500--lg-->FR(maladie#1, affection#2),EN(disease#1, affection#3)Axies may also be linked to "external" systemsof semantic description.
Each axie contains a(possibly empty) list for each such system, andthe list of systems is open.
The following areincluded at this stage; UNL UWs (universalwords), ONTOS concepts, WordNet synsets,NTT semantic categories.3.
Building the content3.1.
Recuperating existing resourcesBuilding the content of the data base has severalaspects.
To initiate it, the project starts fromopen source computerized data, called "rawdictionaries", which may be monolingual (4,000French DiCo entries from UdM, 10,000 Thaientries from Kasetsart Univ.
), bilingual (70,000Japanese-English entries and 10,000 Japanese-French entries in J.Breen's JDICT XML format,8000 Japanese-Thai entries in SAIKAM XMLformat, 120,000 English-Japanese entries inKDD-KATE LISP format), or multilingual(50,000 French-English-Malay entries in FEMXML format).3.2.
Integrating the data into PapillonIn the second phase, the "raw dictionaries" aretransformed into a "lexical soup" inM.Mangeot's (2001) intermediary DML format(an XML schema and namespace).
Thetransformation into almost empty DiCo entriesand the creation of axies for the translationalequivalences is semi-automatic.
A tool has beenprogrammed at NII for that task.3.3.
Enriching the data with contributionsAfter that, it is hoped that many contributorswill "fill in" the missing information.
The basisfor that third and continuous phase is a serverfor cooperative building of the data base, whereeach contributor has his/her own space, so thatcontributions can be validated and integratedinto the DB by a group experts.
Users canestablish user groups with specific read and writeaccess rights on their spaces.4.
Consultation of the resulting data4.1.
Online consultationConsultation is meant to be free for anybody,and open source.
Requests produce personalizableviews of the data base, the most classical ofwhich are fragments of bilingual dictionaries.However, it is also possible to producemultitarget entries, on the fly and offline.
Users(consumers) are encouraged to becomecontributors.
To contribute, one may propose anew word sense, a definition, an example of use,a translation, the translation of an example, acorrection, etc., or an annotation on anyaccessible information: Every user cancontribute with his own knowledge level.4.2.
Download of entire filesUsers can also retrieve files, and can contributeto define new output formats.
The files retrievedcan contain structural, content-oriented tags.This open source orientation contrasts with thecurrent usage of allowing users to retrieve filescontaining only presentation-oriented tags.4.3.
Coverage of the dictionaryAn interesting point is that the project wants t ocover both general terms and terminologicalterms.Another one is that it contains a translationsubproject, because definitions, examples,citations, etc.
have to be translated into alllanguages of the collection.
For this, the notionof complex lexie, already present to account forlexical collocations such as compound predicates(e.g.
"to kick the bucket"), is extended to coverfull sentences.
Axies relating them are specialbecause they can't in general relate them t oexternal semantic systems such as WordNet.
Anexception is UNL: the UNL list for an axie maycontain one UNL graph, produced automatically,manually, or semi-automatically.
This graphmay be automatically sent to available UNL"deconverters" to get draft translations.5.
Project organisationIn the current stage, the project has no legalimplementation as a fundation, association,company, etc., although many participants havealready established official MOUs and othertypes of agreements on which to base theircooperative work.There is a steering committee of about 10-12members, who represent Papillon where theyare, and not the converse.
There is a set oftasks, and for each task a working group and anadvisory committee.
One of the tasks is themanagement of the project.
In between, there isa coordinating group containing the heads of thetasks and chaired by the head of themanagement task.Sponsors may not donate money to the project,which has no bank account.
Rather, they areencouraged to donate data, to assign personalpart time to the project, and to fundparticipating organizations and persons as theysee fit.ConclusionThe theoretical frameworks for the wholedatabase, the macrostructure and themicrostructure are very well defined.
I tconstitutes a solid basis for the implementation.A lot of open problems still have to be addressedfor the Papillon project to be a success.
In thisrespect, the Papillon project appears to be avery interesting experimentation platform for alot of NLP research as data acquisition or humanaccess to lexical data, among others.All these research will improve the attraction ofsuch a project to the Internet users.
Thisattraction is necessary for the project to go on,as it is highly dependent on its usersmotivations.This way, we will be able to provide a veryinteresting multilingual lexical database that wehope useful for a lot of persons.RerefencesAmpornaramveth V., Aizawa A.
& Oyama K. (2000)An Internet-based Collaborative DictionaryDevelopment Project: SAIKAM.
Proc.
of 7th Intl.Workshop on Academic Information Networks andSystems (WAINS'7), Bangkok, 7-8 December 2000,Kasetsart University.Blanc ?., S?rasset G. & Tch?ou F. (1994) Designingan Acception-Based Multilingual Lexical Data Baseunder HyperCard: PARAX.
Research Report, GETA,IMAG (UJF & CNRS), Aug. 1994, 10 p.Connolly, Dan (1997) XML Principles, Tools andTechniques World Wide Web Journal, Volume 2,Issue 4, Fall 1997, O'REILLY & Associates, 250 p.Ide, N. & Veronis, J.
(1995) Text Encoding Initiative,background and context.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers, 242 p.Mangeot-Lerebours M. (2000) Papillon LexicalDatabase Project: Monolingual Dictionaries &Interlingual Links.
Proc.
of 7th Workshop onAdvanced Information Network and System PacificAssociation for Computational Linguistics 1997Conference (WAINS'7), Bangkok, Thailande, 7-8d?cembre 2000, Kasetsart University, 6 p.Mangeot-Lerebours M. (2001) Environnementscentralis?s et distribu?s pour lexicographes etlexicologues en contexte multilingue.
Nouvelle th?se,Universit?
Joseph Fourier (Grenoble I), 27 September2001, 280 p.Mel?tchuk I., Clas A.
& Polgu?re A.
(1995)Introduction ?
la lexicologie explicative etcombinatoire.
AUPELF-UREF/Duculot, Louvain-la-Neuve, 256 p.Polgu?re, A.
(2000) Towards a theoretically-motivatedgeneral public dictionary of semantic derivationsand collocations for French.
Proc.
EURALEX'2000,Stuttgart, pp 517-527.S?rasset G. (1994a) Interlingual Lexical Organisationfor Multilingual Lexical Databases.
Proc.
of 15thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, COLING-94, 5-9 Aug. 1994, 6 p.S?rasset G. (1994b) SUBLIM, un syst?me universel debases lexicales multilingues; et NADIA, sasp?cialisation aux bases lexicales interlingues paracceptions.
Nouvelle th?se, UJF (Grenoble 1), d?c.1994.S?rasset G. (1997) Le projet NADIA-DEC : vers undictionnaire explicatif et combinatoire informatis?
?Proc.
of La m?moire des mots, 5?me journ?esscientifiques du r?seau LTT, Tunis, 25-27 septembre1997, AUPELF?UREF, 7 p.S?rasset G. & Mangeot-Lerebours M. (2001) PapillonLexical Database Project: Monolingual Dictionaries& Interlingual Links.
Proc.
NLPRS'2001,Hitotsubashi Memorial Hall, National Center ofSciences, Tokyo, Japan, 27-30 November 2001, vol1/1, pp.
119-125.Tomokiyo M., Mangeot-Lerebours M. & Planas E.(2000) Papillon : a Project of Lexical Database forEnglish, French and Japanese, using InterlingualLinks.
Proc.
of Journ?es des Sciences et Techniquesde l'Ambassade de France au Japon, Tokyo, Japon,13-14 novembre 2000, Ambassade de France auJapon, 3 p.-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-
