Corpus-Based Pinyin Name ResolutionKui-Lam KWOKComputer Science Dept., Queens College,City University of New York65-30 Kissena Boulevard,Flushing, NY 11367, USAkwok@ir.cs.qc.eduPeter DENGComputer Science Dept., Queens College,City University of New York65-30 Kissena Boulevard,Flushing, NY 11367, USAdeng@ntkk.cs.qc.eduAbstractFor readers of English text who know someChinese, Pinyin codes that spell out Chinesenames are often ambiguous as to theiroriginal Chinese character representations ifthe names are new or not well known.
ForEnglish-Chinese cross language retrieval,failure to accurately translate Pinyin namesin a query to Chinese characters can lead todismal retrieval effectiveness.
This paperpresents an approach of extracting Pinyinnames from English text, suggestingtranslations to these Pinyin using a databaseof names and their characters with usageprobabilities, followed with IR techniqueswith a corpus as a disambiguation tool toresolve the translation candidates.IntroductionIt is important for many applications to be ableto identify and extract person names in text.
ForEnglish, capital letter beginning of a word is animportant clue to spot names, in addition toother contextual ones.
When an English storyrefers to a foreign person, it is relatively easy torepresent the person?s name if the alphabetshave approximate correspondences between thelanguages.
When it refers to a Chinese person,this is not possible because Chinese languagedoes not use alphabets.
The most popularmethod for this purpose is Pinyin coding (see,for example, the conversion project at theLibrary of Congress website (2002)), China?sofficial method of using English to spell outChinese character pronounciations according tothe Beijing Putonghua convention.
Chinesecharacters are monosyllabic, and the largemajority of them has one sound (ignoring tones)and hence one code.
However, given a Pinyin itusually maps to multiple characters.
Such anEnglish Pinyin name raises ambiguity about theoriginal Chinese characters that it refers to andhence the person.
If the name is well known,such as Mao ZeDong, this is not an issue; if thename is less frequently seen, one would like tosee or confirm the actual Chinese characters.The situation is similar to many Chinese wordprocessing systems that use Pinyin as one oftheir input methods.
When a Pinyin is typed(sometimes with tonal denotation), manycandidate characters will be displayed for theuser to select.
The character list can be orderedbased on a language model, Chen & Lee (2000),or on the user?s past habit.
When one comesacross names as input however, a languagemodel is not as helpful because practically anycharacter combination is possible for names.Pinyin names also present difficulties in across language information retrieval (CLIR)scenario.
Here, an English query is given toretrieve Chinese documents, and Pinyin namescould be present as part of the query.
In general,one can have three approaches to CLIR asdiscussed in Grefenstette (1998): translate theChinese documents to English and do retrievalmatching in English; translate the English queryto Chinese and do matching in Chinese; ortranslate both to an intermediate representation.With the first approach, one could use standardtable lookup to map the characters of a Chinesename to Pinyin after identifying a name forextraction.
Chen and Bai (1998), Sun et.al.
(1994) have shown that this extraction process isnot trivial since Chinese writing has no whitespace to delimit names or words.
A moregeneral difficulty is that the document collectionmay not be under a user?s control, but availablefor retrieval purposes only.
This makesdocument translation to the query language (orto an intermediate language) not suitable.
Amore flexible approach is to translate a query toChinese and do retrieval in Chinese.
This hasbeen the more popular method to use for CLIRin TREC experiments: Voorhees and Harman(2001).
Whichever translation direction onechooses, a bilingual dictionary is essential.
Thisdictionary however can be expected to beincomplete, especially with person names.Missing their translations can adversely impacton CLIR effectiveness.
This raises the questionof how to render Pinyin names into Chinesecharacters for translingual retrieval purposes.In the recent NTCIR-2 English-Chinese crosslanguage experiments, Eguchi et.al.
(2001),quite a few queries have names.
Kwok (2001)found that these lead to good monolingualretrieval because the names are quite specificand have good retrieval properties.
On the otherhand, for CLIR that starts with English queries,not being able to translate Pinyin namescorrectly leads to substantial deficit ineffectiveness.
This causes comparisons withmonolingual results particularly dismal.In this paper, we propose an approach toresolve the characters from a Pinyin code.
It isbased on: 1) a rule-based procedure to extractPinyin codes for Chinese person names inEnglish text; 2) a database for proposingcandidate Chinese character sequences for aPinyin code based on usage probabilities; and 3)a target collection and IR techniques as aconfirmation tool for resolving or narrowingdown the proposed candidates.
These aredescribed in Sections 1, 2, and 3 respectively.Section 4 presents some CLIR results and ameasure of the effectiveness of our procedures.We like to stress that even if one obtains thecorrect Chinese characters for a Pinyin, they canstill refer to different persons with the samename.
We do not address this issue here.1 Pinyin Name ExtractionChinese person names in Pinyin have fairlypredictable formats such as: first alphabet of thefamily name (surname) is capitalized, as is thefirst word (or second word) of a given name.Two-syllable given names may appear as oneword or two.
The latter may be hyphenated, apractice popular in places such as Taiwan orHong Kong.
Thus, one may find ChairmanMao?s name in any of the following formats:Mao Ze DongMao ZeDong  Mao ZedongMao Ze-Dong  Mao Ze-dongSome publications also place the given name infront of the surname to agree with Western nameconvention.
This style is supported but not usedin this paper.While the surname character is pretty muchclosed, the given name is not.
It is well knownthat the most popular Chinese surnames numberto about 100.
Including less frequent ones bringthe number to about 400 which we use: seeHundred Surname website (2002).
Sun, et.al.
(1994) reported over 700 surnames in theirstudies when additional infrequent ones areincluded.
Other than for a few exceptions, thisset al have unique Pinyin codes.
These surnamecodes constitute an important clue for spotting aname sequence.
The capitalized word(s), and themonosyllabic nature of words immediately after(or before) the surname give further support ofits existence.
We also loosen name definition todetect entries that have a hyphen but without asurname.
Some rare surnames can be twosyllables long, and often pair with one syllablegiven names.
A woman may include her ownfamily name in addition to her husband?s.
Forour current study, we limit testing to a sequenceof two to three Pinyin syllables only.
This seemssufficient for the large majority of namesencountered.
Fig.1 shows our procedure toidentify possible Pinyin names without the needof a training corpus or a name dictionary.2 Mapping Pinyin Name to ChineseTo suggest Chinese characters for the detectedPinyin, we downloaded about 200K Chinesenames.
This is augmented with another ?million Chinese name usage isolated from theTREC-6 Chinese collection using BBN?sS G GGG / G-GGg / G-gS-G / S-gFigure 1: Pinyin Name Detection Algorithm(S,G = surname & given name syllable with upper-casefirst character; Gg, G-g = concatenated or hyphenatedsyllables, second one with lower-case)IdentiFinder (see Section 4).
Last name andgiven name/characters are stored separately toform a database of name usage with frequencies.Two-character given names are stored bothways: as a single entry (observed) and as twoseparate characters.
Observed usage items havetheir frequencies muliplied by a large factor toseparate it from the unobserved type.
A potentialPinyin surname is mapped to a set of possiblecharacters.
Existence of such characters in thissurname database is the first step to decide thatone may have a possible name sequence.Otherwise, we assume the Pinyin is not a name.Knight and Graehl (1997) have proposed tocompose a set of weighted finite statetransducers to solve the much more complicatedproblem of back-transliteration from JapaneseKatakana to English.
Their concern includes alltypes of source Katakana terms (not just names),corruptions due to OCR, approximations due tomodeling of English, Japanese pronunciations,and a language model for English.
ProposingChinese characters for Pinyin is like back-transliteration and can also be viewedprobabilistically.
Some unique considerationshowever lead to a much simpler problem.Given an English Pinyin name E=EsEg(surname Es, given name Eg), our concern is tofind the best Chinese name character sequenceC=CsCg that maximizes P(C|E), or equivalentlyP(E|C)*P(C).
Since surnames (Es,Eg) and given-names (Cs,Cg) can be considered independent,this probability can be re-written as:P(Es|C)*P(Cs)*P(Eg|C)*P(Cg).The conditioningon C can be replaced by Cs and Cg respectivelysince Chinese given names Cg should notinfluence English surname Es, and Cs should notinfluence Eg.
As discussed before, other than afew exceptions Chinese characters have uniquePinyin, and hence P(Es|Cs) and P(Eg|Cg) isdeterministic.
Maximizing P(C|E) is equivalentto maximizing P(Cs?)*P(Cg?
), where Cs?
andCg?
are sets of characters mapping from Es andEg respectively.
These probabilities areobtainable from frequencies in our database.Given names are limited to one or two syllables.In the latter case, the two characters are alsoassumed independent, and estimates of P(Cg?
)are smoothed between character pairs and theircorresponding singles.To illustrate, we use the Pinyin: Jiang ZeMin(correct Chinese name is 4??)
as an example.This spelling is confirmed as a name because?Jiang?
maps to five possible surnames, and?ZeMin?
obeys given-name format, and havecorresponding characters.
Each surnamecharacter and all possible combinations of thegiven name characters are considered andprobabilities evaluated based on the database ofname usage frequencies.
The top 16 candidatesand estimated probabilities produced from ourprocedure are shown below:.763.119  .110  .005.001  .001  .001  .000.000  .000  .000  .000.000        .000  .000   .000The probabilities are skewed because the first(correct) name has large usage frequency in thetraining data.
However, every candidate is apossible name irrespective of probabilitiesbecause of the idiosyncracies of name forming.Quite often, some places or organizations alsosound like names.
These will also be translated(see example in Section 4).
A couple of notablefailures are strings like ?So China?, which ourprocedure decodes as a name ?So Chi-na?, ?So?being a legitimate surname in Wade-Gilesconvention.
?Hong Kong?
also passes our testwith  candidates: ?
) w? O etc.
A?stoplist?
of such string patterns is employed topartially alleviate these errors.3 Pinyin Name ResolutionOnce candidate names for a Pinyin are available,one may output the top n ranked items asanswers.
However, selecting names based onprobability may not be the best strategy.
Quiteoften, people deliberately choose rare charactersfor naming purpose because they want to bedifferentiated from the usual run-of-the-millnames.
Our strategy is to use IR techniques witha text collection to help in name selection.
Forcross language retrieval, it is especially helpfulto use the target retrieval collection forresolution.
This ensures that a translated nameexists in the collection for retrieval.
For generalapplication, one could employ domain-relevantcollections.
Moreover, one can also use theoccurrence frequency of the names in thecollection to help narrow down the candidates:i.e.
the higher the frequency, the more probablethat the name is the intended one.
This has theadvantage that selection is tailored more to theapplication, and less dependent on the namecharacter database of Section 2.
When thecollection is well chosen, this process canwhittle down the candidates to just a few withgood accuracy.4 Experimental StudiesWe performed two studies to demonstrate ourPinyin resolution strategy.
The first is to repeatretrieval on some queries in NTCIR-2 crosslanguage experiments to see how Pinyin nameresolution can affect effectiveness.
A secondexperiment is to use BBN?s IdentiFinder as areference, and to compare how our proceduressucceed in extracting Pinyin names andtranslating them with respect to a reference set.4.1 CLIR with Pinyin NamesOne of the NTCIR-2 cross language retrievalexperiments (Eguchi, et.al.
2001) consists of 50English topics and a Chinese target collection ofabout  200  MB.
The  purpose  is  to  retrieverelevant Chinese documents using English text(topics) as queries.
The Chinese counterparts tothe English topics were also given so that CLIRresults can be compared to monolingual.
Theoriginal topics are lengthy; we limit our queriesto a few words from the ?title?
section of thetopics.
Three queries have Pinyin names andtwo contain non-person Pinyin entities thatsatisfy our Pinyin name detection format.On running these ?title?
queries through ourprocedure, the Pinyin codes were identified,candidates suggested, and resolved using thetarget collection.
Listed in Table 1 are thequeries.
The Pinyin name in each ?OriginalEnglish?
and ?Original Chinese?
query is bolded.Under   the   column   ?Selected   Names   withOccurrence Frequency?
are the resolved Pinyinnames in Chinese, together with their occurrencefrequencies  in  the  retrieval  collection.
Asdiscussed in Section 3, these selections arenarrowed down from a large number ofcandidates in the intermediate step.The Pinyin in Query 33 is for a kind of bean,while Query 44 has the name for a well knownmountain, but they satisfy our definition of aname pattern.
It can be seen that except forQuery 46, the name with the largest occurrenceagrees with the one intended in the monolingualquery.
In Query 46, the given name ?Yo-yo?
isnon-standard Pinyin, with suggested candidateslike ?
?
or ?
?, and there are no suchentries in the collection.
If it were spelt ?You-you?, the correct characters ????
will beamong the candidates and selected by thecollection.
When these Pinyin names withfrequency>=5 were added to our MT softwareconcatenated with dictionary translationprocedure, Kwok (2001), the initial retrievalresults in Table 2 are obtained.
Here we followthe TREC convention to evaluate retrieval usingthe measures RR (relevant documents in top1000 retrieved), Av.P (average precision), andP@20 (precision at the top 20 documentsretrieved).Substantial improvements were obtained forfour of the queries when the names are correctlypicked, and come closer to or even surpass themonolingual result.
This demonstrates that ourapproach to Pinyin name resolution can work,but we need more queries of this type to confirmthe effect.
Query #15 has very high Av.P of.3287 because dictionary translation brought inuseful content words not present in themonolingual query like:  (kidnapping),,  (murder criminal case).
TheseTable 1.
Pinyin Name Resolution in 5 Queries (* denotes Correct)Qry# Original English    Original Chinese Selected Names withOccurrence Frequency15 Bai Xiao-yan kidnappingmurder criminal case.R(??
?j=R(?
33 Bai-feng Bean.R?R?
R} 244 Hua-shan Art Zone.#FON#F ?Y 2, ?F 246 Ma Yo-yo cello recital.A??
?$? A  ?
23447 Jin Yong kung-fu novels.??;u?
? ???
2, ?
?13, *??
186Table 2:  Effect of Pinyin Resolution on Retrieval Results of 5 Queries(Compared to Monolingual and Translation Only)Qry#MonolingualTranslationTranslation+ PinyinRR Av.P P@20  RR Av.P P@20  RR Av.P P@2015 17 .1594 .15  12 .0611 .10  18 .3287 .3033 13 .5277 .45  13 .2174 .10  13 .4579 .4544 7 .3856 .30  5 .0082 .00  6 .1783 .1546 7 .7543 .35  7 .0078 .00  7 .0077 .0047 17 .5801 .45  17 .3179 .35  17 .6311 .50expand the query and combine synergisticallywith the Pinyin name to provide precisionsurpassing the monolingual result.
As acandidate name, ??
in Query #47 has very lowprobability compared to others because thecharacter ?
(meaning ?mediocre?)
is rarely usedin names.
It was pulled out by high occurrencefrequency in the target collection.
Thompson &Dozier (1997) have also shown that correctlyindexing names in monolingual English retrievalleads to better retrieval.4.2 Resolving Pinyin Names in TextIn another experiment we intended to test ourPinyin procedure with parallel collections thatcontain many paired names, but failed to locateone.
We intend to evaluate how well ourextraction procedure works, and whethercandidate suggestion can recover correctChinese names.
A pair of collections wasdownloaded from the Peoples?
Daily website(2001) Year 2001 English version (~17MB) andthe Chinese version (~70MB) as our testcollections.
A sampling shows that they havevery different content.
Our aim is to isolatePinyin names from the English collection, andcreate a list of their Chinese counterparts.
Wecan then compare our Pinyin extraction againstthe English list.
We also like to see how ourdatabase suggest Chinese candidates for thisfairly recent name set.
The evaluation is moreapproximate compared to doing an evaluationusing parallel corpora with lots of names paired.BBN?s Identifinder, described in Weischedelet.
al.
(1996) was employed to process bothcollections independently.
When given  Englishor Chinese texts, IdentiFinder can bracketenttities  of  different  types  such  as:  PERSON,LOCATION, ORGANIZATION, etc.
for laterextraction.
PERSON entities were isolated andtwo unique person name lists were produced:4840 in English and 47621 in Chinese.
Theyinclude Pinyin, non-Chinese and Chinese personnames.
The Chinese list contains many entrieswith one character (such as a surname ),translitered foreign names, and some withsymbols.
These we want to avoid.
By capturingentries of length >=2 characters, withoutsymbols, and having legitimate surnames, afiltered list of 23,863 Chinese entries wereobtained.
They were mapped into Pinyin andintersected with the English list.
A total of 897COMMON entries resulted, forming ourreference set (Fig.
2).
These are Chinese namesobtainable by translating from the 4840-entryEnglish list and which occur on the filtered list.The original English collection was nextprocessed through our Pinyin identificationprocedure, and 1769 unique entries weredetected to satisfy our criteria.
Comparison withIdentiFinder?s English list shows that 1467(83%) are the same, and 302 (17%) different.The non-overlap can be due to: i) non-personentities that sound like names on our list; ii)non-Chinese names on the IdentiFinder list; iii)legitimate Chinese names detected by one andnot the other; or iv) errors on either procedures.Candidate Chinese names were suggested forour 1769-entry Pinyin list, and afterwardsresolved with the Chinese COMMON list.
Thistests how well our database suggests names forPinyin.
The result is shown in Table 3.
We showsuggestions of 1, 5, up to 50 candidates, andrecall of the reference set improves steadily from35.3% to 93.9% (missing 55 of those 897 inCOMMON) at 50 suggested.
This shows theTable3 : 1769 Pinyin Names Resolved Against COMMON Name List (Size=897)# of Candidates Breakdown of 1769 Pinyin Names Recall1 1452 + 317 in COMMON 35.3% of  8975 1155 + 614  ?
68.5%     ?10 1041 + 728  ?
81.2%     ?30949 + 820  ?
91.4%     ?50927 + 842  ?
93.9%     ?Table 4: 1769 Pinyin Name Resolved Against Filtered Chinese List (Size=23863)# of Candidates Breakdown of 1769 Pinyin Names NewNames Recovered1 1422 + 347 in Filtered Chinese List 347-317=305 1052 + 717  ?
717-614=10310912 + 857  ?
857-718=12930783 + 986  ?
986-820=16650753 + 1016  ?
1016-842=174difficulty of suggesting a correct name: only~35% recall at top 1,  ~68% at top 5.
Ingeneral, small ?top n?
is not sufficient to recovera correct name translation, while using too manylead to noise.
Hence there is a need to resolvecandidates on a relevant collection.We further compare the suggestedChinese names for the 1769 Pinyin against thefiltered Chinese list (23863 entries) to seewhether our Pinyin extraction can recoveradditional Chinese names not obtained byIdentiFinder (from the same English text).
Wefound that at each suggestion level (Tables 4 &3), more names were found by our Pinyinprocedure that were missing in IdentiFinder: 30at suggestion level 1, up to 174 (~19%) morenames at the level of 50.
These 174 are namesin the filtered portion of the Chinese list but notincluded in COMMON because the English listfrom IdentiFinder does not have theircorresponding Pinyin.
The rest (1769-1016=)753 on our list could be non-person entities thatsounded like names, wrongly identified entries,or person names that do not exist inIdentiFinder?s Chinese list.
IdentiFinder mayfail to extract some Chinese names as well.
Forexample, some Pinyin names with ?An?
assurname were missed.
This study demonstratesC-names47621C-text~70MBE-text~17MBIdentiFinderIdentiFinderE-names4840filterC-names23863C-names897PinyinExtractionE-names1769intersectcomparisonresult (Table 4)comparisonresult (Table 3)Fig.2 Pinyin Name Extraction & Suggestion:Comparison with IdentiFinder (BBN)COMMONName listmap toPinyinChinese namesuggestionC-namesthe ability of our approach to locate Pinyinnames in English text and translate them.Conclusion and DiscussionA procedure to translate any Pinyin name intopossible Chinese characters with probabilitiesbased on usage frequencies is proposed.Candidates can further be resolved against a textcollection to narrow down the possibilities.
Thisleads to better CLIR results.
For a recent Englishnews collection, 83% of Pinyin names identifiedagrees with names found by BBN?sIdentiFinder.
Chinese name candidates for thesePinyin cover between 35.3 to 93.9% of aCOMMON name set for the IdentiFinder nameswhen suggestions varies between 1 to 50.
Butadditional Chinese names not extracted byIdentiFinder can be located using our procedure.Pinyin is an official coding used in China andgetting popular elsewhere.
Names from otherplaces such as Taiwan use different Pinyinconventions like Wade-Giles.
We had someprovision for them, but plan to expand ourcoverage for these names more completely in thefuture.Some web search engines offer advancedtechniques that allow users to input English keyterms and display results from Chinesedocuments, selecting items that have the Englishterm and Chinese counterpart.
These enginesserve like giant bilingual dictionaries providingfor entity translation.
However, web pagesusually contain current data and popular namesonly (like Ma Yo-yo).
Lesser known names(like Bai Xiao-yan) are not available.
Ourapproach can suggest Chinese names for Pinyineven if web search fails, or the relevantcollection employed does not further resolve thesuggested translations.
For CLIR, our procedureties translated names to the retrieval collection.We envisage each of these approaches has itsown advantages, and that employing bothtogether may help provide more accuracy for theissue of how to translate Pinyin names.AcknowledgementsThis work was partially sponsored by the Spaceand Naval Warfare Systems Center San Diego,under Grant No.
N66001-00-1-8912.
We thankBBN for the use of their IdentiFinder software.ReferencesChen, K-J.
& Bai, M-H. (1998) Unknown worddetection for Chinese by a corpus-based learningmethod.
Intl.
J. of Computatinoal Linguistics &Chinese Language Processing.
3:27-44.Chen, Z.
& Lee, K-F. (2000) A new statisticalapproach to Chinese Pinyin input.
(available athttp://www.microsoft.com/china/research/dload_files/g-nlps/NLPSP/n8.pdf)Eguchi, K., Kando, N. and Adachi, J.
(eds.)
(2001)Proc.
of Second NTCIR Workshop on Research inChinese & Japanese Text Retrieval, and TextSummarization.NII: Tokyo.
(available at http://research.nii.ac.jp/ntcir/)Grefenstette, G. (1998) Cross language InformationRetrieval.
Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston.Hundred Surname website.
(2002) (available athttp://www.geocities.com/Tokyo/3919/hundred.html)Knight, K. and Graehl, J.
(1997) Machinetransliteration.
Proc.of 35th Annual Meeting ofACL, pp.
128-135.Kwok, K.L.
(2001) NTCIR-2 Chinese, crosslanguage retrieval experiments using PIRCS.
In:Proc.
of Second NTCIR Workshop on Research inChinese & Japanese Text Retrieval, and TextSummarization.
pp.
111-118.
NII: Tokyo.
(available at http://research.nii.ac.jp/ntcir/).Library of Congress Website.
(2002) (available athttp:// www.loc.gov/catdir/pinyin/outline.html)People?s Daily Website.
(2001) (available athttp://www.
peopledaily.com.cn)Sun, M.S., Huang, C.N., Gao, H.Y.
and Fang, J.
(1994) Identifying Chinese names in unrestrictedtexts.
Comm.
COLIPS, 4, pp.
113-122.Thompson, P. and Dozier, C.C.
(1997) Namesearching and information retrieval.
Proc.
2nd Conf.on Empirical Methods in NLP, pp.
134-140.Voorhees, E. and Harman, D.K.
(eds).
(1998) TheSixth Text Retrieval Conference (TREC-6).
NISTSpecial Publication 500-249.
(available athttp://trec.nist.gov/)Voorhees, E. and Harman, D.K.
(eds) (2001) TheNinth Text Retrieval Conference (TREC-9).
NISTSpecial Publication 500-249.
(available athttp://trec.nist.gov/)Weischedel, R. Boisen, S., Bikel, D., Bobrow, R.,Crystal, M., Ferguson, W., Wechsler, A.
& thePLUM Research Group.
(1996) Progress inInformation Extraction.
Proceedings of TipsterText Program (Phase II).
pp.
127-142.
