Teaching NLP/CL through Games: the Case of ParsingHans van HalterenDepartment of Language and SpeechUniversity of NijmegenP.O.Box 9103, NL-6500 HD, Nijmegen, The Netherlandshvh@let.kun.nlAbstractThis paper advocates the use of gamesin teaching NLP/CL in cases wherecomputational experiments areimpossible because the students lackthe necessary skills.
To show theviability of this approach, three gamesare described which together teachstudents about the parsing process.The paper also shows how the specificgame formats and rules can be tunedto the teaching goals and situations,thus opening the way to the creationof further teaching games.1 IntroductionExperience is the best teacher, as proverbialwisdom tells us.
This should bode well forteaching NLP/CL, where the implementation isnormally as important as the theory, andstudents can get hands-on experience with mostof the field.
They can use existing NLP/CLsystems, seeing what inputs can be dealt with,what outputs are produced, and what the effectsof different parameters settings are.
They caneven (re)implement parts of systems, or wholesystems of their own.
So, at a first glanceNLP/CL appears to be the ideal field forteaching by means of experiments.
However,there are also circumstances which makepersonal experimentation impossible.
Oneobvious limitation is shortage of time.Experiments, especially ones in which a systemis thoroughly examined, tend to take up aprohibitive amount of time for most courseschedules.
This can be worked around byfocusing the experiments on the more importantand/or more widely instructive aspects.
Harderto work around is the situation whereexperiments are impossible because the studentslack the necessary knowledge.
Students cannotprogram a system if they have insufficientprogramming skills; they cannot altercomputational grammars if they haveinsufficient linguistic skills.
This problemtypically occurs in introductory courses, e.g.
forgeneral linguistics students, where the necessaryknowledge is acquired only later (or never atall).
If we want to keep the added value ofpersonal experience, we will have to cast theintended experiencing into a different form.In this paper I propose the use of games,another time-honored learning method, even forlinguistics (cf.
Grammatical Game in Rhyme (ALady, 1802), teaching parts of speech, or, morerecently, WFF ?N PROOF games like Queries ?nTheories (Allen et al, 1970), teaching formalgrammars).
I will not go into computer games orsimulations (e.g.
VISPER; Nouza et al, 1997),assuming these to be sufficiently known, butwill focus on three major types of ?unplugged?games instead: card games, board games androleplaying games.
In the following sections, Igive an example of each type.
Together, theseexamples form an introduction to parsing andparsers, showing what kind of grammatical unitsare used (card game), how sentences can bebroken down into these units by following arecursive transition network (RTN; board game)and how a parser can decide which route to takewithin the RTN (roleplaying game).In all three games I use the descriptive modelunderlying the TOSCA/ICE parser (cf.
Oostdijk,2000), which in turn took its inspiration from thewidely used descriptive grammars of Quirk et al(1972, 1985).
This is a constituent structuremodel where each constituent is labelled with asyntactic category (signifying what type ofconstituent it is) and a syntactic function(signifying what the constituent?s role is in theJuly 2002, pp.
1-9.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Natural Language Processing and Computational Linguistics, Philadelphia,Proceedings of the Workshop on Effective Tools and Methodologies for Teachingimmediately dominating constituent).1Furthermore, all utterances and analyses in thegames are taken from actual syntacticallyanalysed corpus material, to be exact from asingle 20,000 word sample taken from a crimenovel (Allingham, 1965).
This choice of textmaterial and descriptive model is not just madeout of convenience.
I feel that it is important thatthe students work with ?real?
examples, and notwith especially constructed sentences and/or toygrammars.2A Card Game on SyntacticBuilding BlocksThe introduction to parsing starts with a cardgame about syntactic constituents and theirinterrelations.
After all, if we want the studentsto understand what a parser does, they will firsthave to learn about the building blocks that areused in syntactic analysis.
Even if they havealready taken a syntax course, it will benecessary to familiarize them with the specificgrammatical units used in our own ?parser?
(i.e.those from the TOSCA/ICE model).
As themain goal is familiarization with theterminology, we do not want to spend too muchtime on this.
Also, this may be the students?
firstencounter with syntactic analysis, so they shouldbe able to focus on the sentences and not bedistracted by game rules.
These two demandslead us to create a short (half hour) card gamewith simple rummy-like rules, Ling Rummy.The Ling Rummy deck consists of 54 cards,2each of which (see Figure 1) depicts a syntacticfunction (e.g.
CO = object complement), aterminal syntactic category (e.g.
ART = article),a non-terminal syntactic category (e.g.
NP =noun phrase), and an utterance.
The goal of thegame is to form combinations of three cards, aconstituent in the utterance shown on the firstcard having a category shown on the second andthe function shown on the third card (e.g.
inFigure 1 ?absolutely quiet?
is an adjectivephrase (AJP) functioning as an objectcomplement (CO)).
This means that theelements on the same card need not be related,but that elements needed for combinations mustactually be spread out carefully over differentcards, so it remains possible to form all of theless frequent combinations with cards from onesingle deck.Figure 1: Three game cards from Ling Rummywith a scoring combination1 A list of the categories and functions used in thispaper can be found in Appendix A.2 Card decks are typically printed in sheets of 54 or55 cards.
54 is also a good number for do-it-yourselfconstruction, as 54 cards can be printed as 6 sheets(A4 or letter)  with 9 cards each.
For Ling Rummy, asingle 54-card deck suffices.At the start of the game, the players are dealtnine cards.
Then follow three rounds of play.
Ineach round a student first draws a new card,either from the draw pile or from earlierdiscards, then scores one combination andfinally discards one card.
Forming acombination brings a number of points, which isdetermined by multiplying the point scores forthe function and the category (e.g.
CO:4 x AJP:3= 12).
If no combination can be formed, threenon-combining cards must be ?scored?
and tenpoints are deducted from the player?s score.The limitation to three rounds of play helpskeep up the pace of the game, but also putspressure on the players to focus on allcombinations.
During the first round, there aregenerally several options and the highest scoringone can be selected.
During the second round,the players have to find a balance betweengetting a high score in this round and avoiding apoint deduction during the last round.
Duringthe last round, finally, the players usually haveto look for that vital combination-completingcard in the discards or else hope for a luckydraw.After reading a short description of thefunction and category indications (somewhatmore extensive than that in Appendix A), thestudents learn all they need to learn by playingthe game, typically in groups of three or four.They have to analyse all the utterances in theirhand and in the available discards in order toform the best-scoring combinations, and theyhave to check the combinations played by theiropponents.3 If there is a disagreement among theplayers, they can refer to an accompanyingbooklet containing the analyses as made duringthe original annotation of the corpus.
If thestudents have a problem with the analysis foundin the booklet, they will have to call on theteacher for arbitration and/or more explanation.The students are likely to give specialattention to the less frequent functions andcategories because of their higher scores.
Morefrequent combinations do not really need all thatmuch attention, but are guaranteed to get someanyway when the student wants to avoid thepoint deduction in the last round and needs toprepare a sure combination.
As all functions andcategories, as well as most combinations, haveto be present in the single deck, their frequenciesdeviate from those in real text.
As a result, thestudents will not get the right feeling for thosefrequencies by playing this game.
However,some indication is given by the difference inscores.
Furthermore, the students do not playthis game long enough to develop erroneousintuitions about frequencies and the actualfrequencies get sufficient attention in the boardgame which follows.3A Board Game on SyntacticAnalysisThe next step in getting to know parsers is theactual complete analysis of whole utterances inthe way that a parser is supposed to do it.
Thisnecessarily takes some more time, say one totwo hours.
Also, much more information needsto be presented at the same time, which is notpossible in a card game format but acceptable ina board game.
The rules can be a bit morecomplicated as well, but not much, as the focushas to remain on syntax.
However, in thisparticular case, a rule mechanism is needed toforce the players to pay attention to each others?analysis activities and not only to their own.This interaction can be achieved by having3 In the standard game, a scoring player points out thecombination and the others merely check if theyagree whether the combination is correct.
It is alsopossible to have the other players try to find acombination in the three cards themselves, possiblyfor a (partial) score.
However, this would lead to amuch slower game.players control elements that other players needin their analysis activities.There are at least two natural models for thistype of control.
The first is a kind of tradinggame where grammar rewrites are pictured astrading a constituent for its immediateconstituents, with transaction costs (partially)dependent on the likelihood of the rewrite.
Theplayers might be able to have monopolies incertain rewrites and would have to be paid byother players wishing to do those rewrites.
Theexact rules can be adopted from one of the manymoney, stock or property trading games inexistence.
The second option is a kind of travelgame.
The analysis process is then pictured as ajourney along a network, e.g.
a recursivetransition network (RTN; Woods, 1970).
Again,players can control parts of the analysis process,by owning sections of the network, which areneeded by other players during their journey.Again, there is sufficient inspiration for exactrules, now to be found in one of the manyrailroad games in existence.
I have chosen thesecond option, the railroad-type game.
The mainreason is that a trading game tends to lead to toomuch interaction, typically when players keepspending way too much time on getting betterdeals.
This takes attention away from the actualfocus of the game, the analysis, far more than isdesired in our setting.
Furthermore, the RTNrepresentation is a much more attractivevisualization of the parsing process, which is ofcourse very important for a board game.
Themain disadvantage of the chosen option is thatRTN?s are hardly ever used in this specific formany more.
However, their link to context freegrammars should be readily understandable formost students.
Also, similar networks are still inuse, e.g.
in the form of finite state machines.The details of the resulting game, called theRTN Game, are inspired on the railroad gameBox Cars (Erickson and Erickson, 1974, laterrepublished as Rail Baron, Erickson et al,1977), in which players move their train markersbetween cities in the United States and can buyhistorical railroads like the Southern Pacific.
Inthe RTN Game, the map of the United States isreplaced by a number of subboards, depictingnetworks for Adjective Phrase (Figure 2),Adverb Phrase, Noun Phrase, PrepositionalPhrase, Sentence (Figure 3)4 and Utterance, and4 The Sentence subboard is different from the othersplayers move their pawns through the networksin accordance with the analysis of specificsentences.
They can buy network arcs on theboard and get paid if anyone uses their arcs.
Asfor Ling Rummy, the optimum number ofplayers is four, but the game will work well withthree or five players.The main activity during the game, then, ismoving along the board, which corresponds toanalysing specific utterances.
The utterances areagain taken from the abovementioned corpussample.
However, since the game board shouldnot become too cluttered, the RTN has to belimited in complexity, and the most infrequentconstructions are left out.
The remaining RTNcovers about half of the utterances, severalhundred of which are provided on game cards.
Afew simple examples can be seen on the LingRummy cards in Figure 1.
However, there arealso more involved utterances, one of thelongest being All that had been proved so_farwas that thought could be transferred from onemind to another sometimes, and that the processcould be mechanically assisted, at_leastas_far_as reception was concerned.5 Thecorrect analyses for all utterances (i.e.
theanalyses selected by the linguist who annotatedthe sample) are provided in an accompanyingbooklet which can be consulted if problemsarise.in that it has three exit paths, one for intransitivesentence patterns (John sleeps), one for transitivesentence patterns (John sees Peter) and one forintensive sentence patterns (John is ill).
These threecannot be spread out over several boards becausethere are arcs for coordinated  structures which jumpback from the separate parts to the common part.At the start of the game, the players each getthree utterance cards from which they can selectone to analyse.
The analysis consists of movinga pawn (at a die-roll determined speed) alongthe nodes of the RTN in accordance to thestructure of the utterance.
Whenever the pawnencounters an arc marked with a recursion sign(@), there is a jump to another network.
Thecurrent position of the pawn is marked on thelarger @ next to the arc and the pawn is thenplaced at the start of the corresponding networksubboard.
After the recursion is finished, thepawn returns to the marked position.
Whenmoving along an arc, the players have to pay forthe use of that arc, e.g.
in the AJP network(Figure 2) a premodifying AVP costs 20 (andleads to a detour along the AVP network).
Thecost for each arc is determined by its frequencyof use in the corpus sample; higher costcorresponds to lower frequency.
Aftercompletion of the analysis of an utterance, theplayer receives about one and a half times thetotal cost of that utterance, so that player capitalgrows throughout the game.
Also, afterreceiving payment, a player is allowed to buy anarc (which has to be paid to the ?bank?
andalways costs 20), and from that moment onreceives the payment from anyone using thatarc.
Immediately after buying a new arc, theplayer again draws three utterance cards andselects one of them.
The game ends after a fixedamount of time, the winner being the player withthe highest amount of money.Figure 2: The Adjective Phrase subboard in TheRTN Game, showing network nodes and arcsmarked with a) a syntactic function, b) asyntactic category , c) an @ if the category isnon-terminal and hence needs recursion, d) thecost for the arc, e) spaces to mark possession ofthe arc and f) a space to mark the currentanalysis position when recursingIn the RTN Game, the players?
choicesconsist of buying the right arcs and selecting theright utterances to analyse.
Both types of5 Compound words have been connected withunderscores, e.g.
as_far_as, and have to be treated asif they are single words.choices force the desired involvement with otherplayers?
activities.
If another player?s currentutterance route contains a high-value arc, buyingthat arc will bring an instant return, and it istherefore useful to (partly) analyse the otherplayers?
utterances.
If no short-term gain isidentified, an arc has to be selected which hasgood long term prospects.
Thinking about theseprospects brings insight into grammaticalprobabilities, as the costs of the arcs depend onthe frequencies of occurrence.
For utteranceselection, the aspects to be considered are theownership of the needed arcs and the time it willtake to traverse the network, i.e.
how long ittakes before something new can be bought.Again, analysis skills and probabilisticreasoning are honed.
Even more than in LingRummy, there may be disagreements aboutanalyses, which can either be resolved byreferring to the accompanying booklet with?gold standard?
analyses or by discussion withthe teacher.Throughout the game, the studentsexperience what a parser does and in whichterms it ?sees?
the analysis process.
They do notyet experience what the parser cannot do, as allthe utterances in the game can be parsed withthe RTN on the board.
However, this experiencecan now be provided with a few simplequestions, such as ?Which utterances in text Xcannot be parsed with this RTN??
or ?Howwould the RTN have to be extended to parseutterance Y??.
Their experience with theexisting RTN should form a sufficient basis fora discussion of such subjects.Figure 3: See separate figure at end of fileFigure 3: The Sentence subboard in The RTN Game (cf.
Figure 2 and Footnote 4).A Role-Playing Game on ParsingAlgorithms4When playing the RTN game, the students havetotal information about the sentence, as well astheir linguistic and world knowledge, and shouldtherefore be able to choose the right paththrough the network immediately, even thoughthe utterance may be globally or locallyambiguous.
They may or may not realize that aparser has more limited knowledge and hencemore trouble picking a route.
This realizationcan again be induced with a few directquestions, such as ?In utterance X, how can theparser know whether to pick arc Y or Z at pointP??.
However, if there is sufficient time, it maybe more useful to let the students each take therole of a parser component and get a widerexperience.
This can be done in a roleplayinggame called Analyses and Ambiguities (A&A).In A&A, each player plays a component of aparser, either one of the constituent-basedcomponents that are also present in the RTNGame or a lower-level component like ato .Eain ta th fth tlo -mcuindvatr fr fbacktracking.
By experiencing the process atthis level, the students learn how the individualcomponents have to do their work.You are the AJP (adjective phrase) component of theparser.
You will be called upon to give information aboutthe presence and extent of AJP?s in an input utterance.You know that an AJP is composed of (in this order)1. zero or more premodifiers, each realized by anAVP (P=20%)2. a head, realized by an adjective3.
zero or more postmodifiers, each realized byeither a PP (P=5%), an S (P=5%) or an AVP(P=1%)However, you cannot see the input itself.
If you need toknow if any potential constituents of an AJP exist atspecific positions in the input, you will have to ask yourfellow phrase structure components about the existenceof PP?s, S?s or AVP?s, or the lexical-morphologicalcomponent about what kind of word is present at acertain position in the input.Apart from the knowledge above, and thecommunication channels to the other components, youhave access to processing power (your brain) and yourown bit of memory (paper, blackboard or whiteboard).In addition, the controlling intelligence of theparser is played by all the players together.
Theydecide as a group how to use the componentknowledge to perform the overall parsing task.If necessary, they can create a centraladministration area (e.g.
on a blackboard) tocontrol the process as a whole.
If there arestudents without roles, the group might assignone of them to take on the role of a newcomponent, such as a separate recursionadministrator or an analysis tree builder.The group can experiment with variousstrategies like top-down or bottom-up parsing,look-ahead, parallel parsing, shared forests andprobabilistic ordering.
At the start, they shouldbe allowed to come up with these strategiesthemselves, but it is likely that some hints fromthe teacher will be needed at some point.Alternatively, different teams can be instructedto investigate different strategies, e.g.
top-downversus bottom-up, and given time to develop asystem using the given strategies.
After eachteam has finished, they can demonstrate theirresulting system to the whole group and therelative merit of the systems can be discussed.Figure 4: Instructions for the AJP player inA&AThe natural group size for the use of A&A isthe number of components in the system, i.e.eight if playing the six RTN?s plus a tokenizerand a lexical-morphological analyzer.
Withmore students there is a choice between splittingthe component parts into subparts, or having theadditional students only take part in the groupdiscussion.
However, care must be taken that allstudents are actively involved in the game, andexperience shows that attention tends to wanderif the group is larger than ten to fifteenstudents.66 A&A itself has not been used with students as yet,but the same teaching technique is used at thecomputer science department, where it is well-appreciated by the students (Wupper, 1999).
Here,the technique is known as technodrama, indicatingparallels with the psychodrama used in psychology.More information, including  video?s of students inaction, although only in Dutch, can be found atwww.cs.kun.nl/ita/onderwijs/onderwijsvormen/technodrama/uitleg.html.
kenizer or a lexical-morphological analyzerach component has only limited knowledgebout the world and a limited access to theput.
The AJP component, e.g., will know than AJP may start with premodifying AVP?s, buas to call on the AVP component to find out iere are actually AVP?s present at the currencation.
Also, it has to call on the lexicalorphological component to find out if theurrent word is an adjective and can hence besed as a adjective phrase head.
After gainingformation about the accessibility of theifferent arcs, it may have to choose betweenarious competing routes.
Finally, it has to keepn administration in order to be able to keepack of its various instantiations in case oecursion, and possibly for purposes o5ConclusionIn any course where the students are to be taughtabout parsing by personal experience, the threegames described in this paper can be useddirectly as a teaching aid.7 For lower levelcourses, Ling Rummy and The RTN Game canbe completed with a few simple extraassignments to give a good impression of what aparser does, what goes on inside and how anunderlying grammar should be constructed, allwithin two to three hours.
For morecomputationally minded students, thealgorithmic complexities of the parsing processcan be learned through A&A, probably takinganother hour or two.
In both cases, neitherprevious skills nor access to computing facilitiesare necessary.It should be noted that all three games are asyet at the playtesting stage.
We plan to use LingRummy and The RTN Game for the first time inan actual classroom setting during a first-yearlinguistics course later this year.
The mostimportant lesson I hope to learn then is howuniversity students react to being asked to play?games?.
I expect the majority to react well, butsome might well scoff at such ?childish?activities.
For these students, the presentationmay have to be altered.
A minimal alteration is amere change in terminology.
The word gamescan be weakened, e.g.
into game-like activities,or avoided altogether, leading to terms likesimulation or technodrama (cf.
Footnote 6).
Astep further would be to remove all gameelements, like scoring.
The same game boardsand cards can also be used for straightforwardsimulations and/or exercises.
However, I expectthe removal of the game elements to have adetrimental effect on the average student?sinvolvement.If the games are received well, the road isopen to further teaching games.
The descriptionof the games in this paper is therefore meant asmore than just an introduction to these specificgames.
It is also intended as a demonstration of7 The games are currently completely in English(subject matter, game materials and instructions).
Aversion of Ling Rummy for Dutch grammaticalanalysis is under consideration.
All games are freelyavailable for teaching purposes, the only conditionbeing that evaluative feedback is provided.
Contactthe author if you are interested.how to translate your teaching goals into games,and how conditions on the teaching goals andsituation should influence the game format andrules.
The game should after all not become anend in itself, but should clearly be a vehicle forteaching the appropriate lessons.
In some casesit may be impossible to create a game that isboth playable and teaches the desired lessons,but it is my contention that games can certainlybe developed for many more aspects ofNLP/CL.ReferencesA Lady.
1802.
Grammatical Game in Rhyme.Cheapside, London: Saml.
Conder.Allen, L.E., P. Kugel and J.K. Ross.
1970.Queries ?n Theories.
Fairfield, IA: WFF ?NPROOF Learning Games Associates.Allingham, M. 1965.
The Mind Readers.London: Chatto & Windus.Erickson, T.F.
Jr. and R.S.
Erickson.
1974.Box Cars.
Atlanta, Georgia: Erickson.Erickson, T.F.
Jr., R.S.
Erickson, R.Hamblen and M. Uhl.
1977.
Rail Baron.Baltimore, Maryland: The Avalon Hill GameCo.Nouza, J., N. Holada and D. Hajek.
1997.
AnEducational and Experimental Workbench forVisual Processing of Speech Data.
In Proc.Eurospeech?97, Rhodes, Greece, September1997, pages 661-664.Oostdijk, N. 2000.
English descriptivelinguistics at a cross-roads.
English Studies, Vol.81,2:127-141.Quirk, R., S. Greenbaum, G. Leech and J.Svartvik.
1972.
A Grammar of ContemporaryEnglish.
London: Longman.Quirk, R., S. Greenbaum, G. Leech and J.Svartvik.
1985.
A Comprehensive Grammar ofthe English Language.
London: Longman.Woods, W.A.
1970.
Transition networkgrammars for natural language analysis.
CACM13(10): 591-606.Wupper, H. 1999.
Anatomy of ComputerSystems - Experiences with a new introductoryinformatics course.
Report CSI-R9914.Nijmegen: CSI.Appendix AIn the examples and figures in this paper,syntactic categories and functions are oftenindicated by their abbreviated name.
Thisappendix contains a list of these abbreviationsand the corresponding full names.The various categories are:Adj AdjectiveAdv AdverbAJP Adjective PhraseArt ArticleAux Auxiliary verbAVP Adverb PhraseCon Connective (adverb)Conj ConjunctionLv Lexical verbN NounNP Noun PhrasePP Prepositional PhraseS SentenceTo Infinitival toThe various functions are:A AdverbialAV Auxiliary verbCO Object complementCOOR CoordinatorCS Subject complementHD HeadMV Main verbOD Direct objectOI Indirect objectPC PrepositionalcomplementPOM PostmodifierPREM PremodifierPRTCL ParticleSU SubjectSUB Subordinator
