Dialogue Macrogame TheoryWilliam C. MannSIL International6739 Cross Creek Rd.Lancaster, SC 29720  USAbill_mann@sil.org2 Introduction: 1 Abstract:Dialogue Macrogame Theory is designed to enableanalysis of particular natural dialogues.
Somedialogues can be analyzed with DMT; somecannot.
Where it fits, DMT  gives a partialtechnical characterization of the classes ofdialogues represented in the analyses.
This paperis focused on presenting the elements of the theory.Other presentations are expected to describe itsapplication and validation.This paper introduces Dialogue MacrogameTheory, a method for describing the organizationof certain kinds of dialogues.
DialogueMacrogame Theory (DMT) is a successor to atheory sometimes called Dialogue Game Theory,developed in the 1970s and 1980s at USC-Information Sciences Institute (ISI).
DMT is ableto describe substantially more dialogues than itspredecessor, and it identifies kinds of mechanismsnot included in the predecessor.
DMT is a steptoward accounting for the coherence of entiredialogues.In the late 1970s a research team at USC-Information Sciences Institute (ISI) studied naturaldialogues with particular interest in applying theresults to human-computer interaction.
The teamproduced a series of reports (Mann 1979) (Mann,Carlisle et al 1977) (Mann, Carlisle et al 1975), apublished paper by Levin and Moore (Levin andMoore 1977) and later another paper, entitledDialogue Games: Conventions of HumanInteraction  (Mann 1988).
These publications aroseout of the study of many natural dialogues.
Thefinal theoretical summary was presented in theform of a technical method for representing theshort range and long range dialogue structures.Recent work has  attempted to apply this set ofstructures to additional dialogues.
This effort hasidentified a number of deficiencies of theframework, which have led to making a fresh startrather than adjustment.The major structures in DMT are based onintentions which are imputed  to dialogueparticipants.
The focus of this paper is onmechanisms.
Dialogue Macrogames are defined.Another class of mechanisms, called Unilaterals, isalso described.A DMT analysis  is presented.
The analyzeddialogue is an  excerpt (41 turns) of actual dialoguefrom the Apollo 13 mission, from the emergencyperiod after the explosion.DMT is then related to another dialogue analysismethod (Carletta, Isard et al 1997).DMT is an exercised framework, meaning that ithas been applied to dialogues from a diversity ofsituations.
These  include various emergencycommunications, tutoring, administrativeinteractions, online human computer help, medicalinterviews, laboratory conversational tasks,courtroom questioning of witnesses and hostagenegotiation.
The paper reports work in progress,and also indicates likely courses of furtherdevelopment.The central constructs in the prior work werecalled Dialogue Games, a name inspired byterminology of Wittgenstein (Wittgenstein 1973)but with only a distant family resemblance to hisusage.
Since  the end of that work this term hasbeen used in many other ways that are nottechnically related to the ISI usage.
In addition, theterms dialogue act, conversational act, andconversational game are in wide use (CarlsonPhiladelphia, July 2002, pp.
129-141.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Proceedings of the Third SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue,1983) (Kreutel and Matheson 2001) (Traum 1994;Poesio and Traum 1998; Traum 1999) .To simply resume using the old terminology nowwould invite confusion and misunderstanding.
Sothis paper introduces a new term, DialogueMacrogame, which represents some structures thatresemble the dialogue games of the predecessormodel.
In this paper, Dialogue Macrogame maybe abbreviated to dialogue game or even game.The term dialogue represents two party immediateinteraction.1Studies of dialogue from various points of view arenumerous.
There are dozens of technical fieldswith the word communication in their names(Craig 1999).
Many of them study dialogue.
Thereare structural views, communication views andmany others.
Linguistics tends to producestructurally oriented studies, but not exclusively.Even restricting attention to studies of dialoguecoherence, there are many radically differentviewpoints.
Conversational Coherence: Form,Structure and Strategy  (Craig and Tracy 1983) is aparticularly relevant collection, now somewhatdated but representing ideas that persist in thewider literature.
In this book, and in the widerliterature as well, the distinction betweencoherence and cohesion is often not made.
Studiesof coherence are often really about abstractcohesive devices, in the sense of (Halliday andHasan 1976).
Some studies (Ellis 1983; Goldberg1983) assume that coherence is produced bydesign,  by appropriate use of cohesive devices.In some studies coherence is equated to topiccontinuity or to the appropriate use of topicshifting devices  (Crow 1983; Sigman 1983).
Inothers it is seen as conformity to expressive rules.Grice is often interpreted as believing thatconversational coherence is based on rule (ormaxim) following (Grice 1975).
Still others seecoherence as an identifiable outcome of rulegoverned (social or linguistic) behavior (Goldberg1983).
Hawes defends his views against this idea(Hawes 1983).Some studies of coherence in dialogue assume thatpeople pursue a tacit goal of being coherent, inaddition to any other goals, when they interact.
It isa benefit which they seek.
(Hopper attributes thisorientation to interpreters of language, but notproducers (Hopper 1983).)
Others see coherence asan obligation that is attached to interaction.
It is anadded duty.
(Sanders sees this view as widelyaccepted, and defends his views against it (Sanders1983).
)Some studies equate coherence with propositionalconsistency, see (Goldberg 1983) for citations.Others see coherence as a kind of summaryimpression that is a side effect of understanding aninteraction, an understanding that is enabled by theprocesses that ordinarily govern interaction(Sanders 1983).The (Craig and Tracy 1983) book incorporates anadmirable attempt to make the various approachescomparable.
All of the chapter authors were givenone particular 30 minute dialogue (included in thevolume) and told to relate their approaches to it.
Ina volume summary, apropos of this paper, theeditors note that?Conversationalists?
goals must play acentral role in any adequate explanation ofdiscourse production and interpretation inconversations.?
p. 22.Global approaches to coherence, ones that attemptto address entire texts or dialogues, are oftenassociated with some notion of genre or tradition,such as Rummelhardt?s story grammars(Rumelhart 1975) or Schank and Abelson?s scripts(Schank and Abelson 1977).
(DMT addresseswhole dialogues, but without resemblance to thoseapproaches.
)There is more recent progress in many aspects ofunderstanding dialogue.
A rich array of formalapproaches has been built on the DiscourseRepresentation Theory of Kamp and colleagues(Kamp and Reyle 1993) (Traum 1994).
Agencytheory, along with various vigorous efforts todevelop data annotation methods, are alsoproducing insightful views of natural dialogue.1 Sometimes DMT  structures can be applied tointeractions that have more than two participants.
Evenso, dialogue macrogame theory would have to besignificantly augmented in order to become a soundrepresentation scheme for multiparty interaction.Knowing of these complications, we focus on two partyinteraction as a research tactic.Clearly there is no consensus on the nature ofcoherence in dialogue.
Although comparing viewsis typically difficult, as researchers we always findsome views more credible than others.
We may beable to make certain alternatives more distinct byan analogy concerning oral dialogue.
What is thestatus of breathing?
Do people breathe in dialoguebecause they believe it will make the dialoguemore beneficial?
Or is there a duty to breathe indialogue?
Is breathing simply following a tradition,or an attempt to perform smoothly?
Are there rulesof dialogue that would, for example, make adialogue ill-formed if it did not involve breathing?Or is breathing regulated by processes that interactwith the speaking processes?
DMT is designedfollowing assumptions that most resemble thislatter alternative.Instead, we seek to find a set of theories that canjointly account for the coherence of dialogues thatarise in different kinds of situations.
We hope thatthe set will be small, but also that the set oftheories will be very informative.
DMT isdesigned to be one such theory.Size limitations and incomplete developmentprevent this paper from describing all of thesignificant aspects of DMT.
We choose to describeonly the elements which are part of DMT analysis.In future presentations we expect to describedialogue analysis methods, framework validation,some form/framework relationships, andrelationships to prior methods.
We  also expect toprovide a corpus of analyzed dialogues.This work puts a high value on expanding thecoverage of the set of theories mentioned above.This is in effect  a personal preference for placing ahigh value on breadth rather than depth orprecision.3 Research Goals:A major goal of Dialogue Macrogame Theory(DMT) is to provide a descriptive account for thecoherence of a wide diversity of natural dialogues.A dialogue is said to be coherent if a person whohas good access to the dialogue is left with theimpression that every part of the dialoguecontributed to the remainder, or equivalently thatthere are no parts whose presence is not easilyexplained.2  This definition of coherence is parallelto a definition for monologue texts.
Thatdefinition says that every part of the text has anevident role, and that there are no apparentdeletions.We can say something preliminary about thedegree of confirmation of DMT.
As mentionedabove, although the predecessor theory expressedsome insights about dialogues, it was generally notprecise enough to be applied reliably.
Details hadbeen missed.
DMT has been applied to a muchwider range of dialogues.
The forthcoming releaseof a corpus of analyzed dialogues will show this,and the structures described below all reflectdetails of actual natural dialogues.Near the end of this paper there is an example ofan analysis of a natural dialogue, illustrating use ofeach kind of element of DMT.Notice that the definition of coherence does notrefer to turns, does not require that there be distinctturns, and in particular does not require that turnsbe coherent monologues.
4 Intentions in Dialogue:Dialogue coherence arises from the intentions (alsocalled goals) of the dialogue participants.
It arisesespecially from the way that the conventions ofdialogue cause the participants to adopt anddismiss groups of intentions.
Grouping ofintentions  is the foundation for coordination of theactivities of dialogue participants.
It provides away of introducing joint goals into a dialogue, and,equally important, a way of dismissing goals froma dialogue, all under the shared control of bothparticipants.The assumptions of DMT  include saying that  notall dialogue situations are alike, and that thedifferences between  dialogue situations affect thedynamics of the dialogues which occur in them.We therefore do not expect to discover a singletheory that accurately describes the coherence ofall natural dialogues.2 For research purposes, the impressions of dialogueparticipants themselves are generally not available.Researchers?
impressions of dialogue transcripts andrecords are virtually the only source, so thoseimpressions are the object of study.The view of intentions here follows (Mann 2001),which identified a set of attributes of intentionsthat can be found in the literature of intentions inlanguage.
That view makes use of (Bratman 1987;Clark 1996; Gibbs 1999).
The view of jointintentions, and of joint actions where they occur,generally follows Clark, who follows (Tuomela2000).5 Dialogue Macrogames:The major construct of Dialogue MacrogameTheory is, of` course, the dialogue macrogame.
A(dialogue macro)game is defined as a set of threegoals:1.
A goal of the initiator2.
A goal of the responder3.
A joint goalA dialogue macrogame is a convention, looselycomparable to a lexical item or a grammaticalpattern.
DMT expects that people will holdhierarchic goal structures, in general but especiallyfor embedded uses of games.
However, these threegoals are not in hierarchic configuration.
When agame is used,  the goal of the initiator and the jointgoal will be in the memory of the initiator ascommitments.
(DMT does not constrain therelationship of these two.)
Similarly,  the goal ofthe responder and the joint goal will be in thememory of the responder as commitments.
In eachmemory, the two goals are committed and un-committed simultaneously, and at the same timeeach person?s knowledge of the other?scommitments is adjusted.
How this happens, andhow grounding can be continuous, are describedbelow.One of the games is named the InformationOffering game.
Like all of the other games, asingle occurrence  of this game  can be used toaccount for an indefinitely long interval ofinteraction.
Currently in DMT there are about 19defined games.The definition of the Information Offering game is:1. goal of theinitiator:to provide particularinformation to recipient2.
goal of theresponder:to identify and receive theparticular information offered3.
joint goal:  the responder comes to possessthe particular informationThese, of course, are not fully specified goals.Rather, they (and all of the goals of the framework)have places for unspecified arguments, such as theparticular information above.
DMT does notassume that the dialogue is task oriented; if it is,the goals of a particular use of a game may be taskgoals, and a particular goal can appear in morethan one position in a game use.All of the individual participants?
goals that areused in DMT games have the following attributesin the (Mann 2001) framework: partialness,priorness, tacitness, immediacy , interaction-configuring, intended to be recognized,structuredness, complementarity, conventionality.The joint goals have the additional attribute ofjointness, and they lack complementarity.The course of a dialogue between peers isgenerally under the control of both participants.They coordinate and jointly control by means ofparticular kinds of actions.
DMT uses anegotiation metaphor to describe this.
A game isbid by the initiator, and the responder accepts orrefuses the bid.
These actions are almost alwaysimplicit, but certain situations (especially thediagnosis of misunderstanding) can cause them tobecome explicit.
Similarly, games terminate bynegotiation.
If a game has been bid and the bid hasbeen accepted the game is  open.Either party can bid termination of a game, and theother can either accept termination or refuse it bycontinuing to pursue the game.
Games often endby apparent accomplishment of the joint goals ofthe game, which is the most common form ofbidding termination.
Abandoning the goals of thegame accepts termination.
So for example givingan answer to a question will generally be seen byboth parties as the moment when pursuing thequestion should end.
Thus apparent  satisfactionof the game goals bids termination.
There are otherways to terminate a game.
The scope of a game isthe entire interval during which it is in use,including the initial bid of the game and the finalacceptance of termination.If a bid to initiate a game is refused, as can happenfor example when one person offers informationthat the other person does not need, then the gamenever becomes open, and the joint goal ofproviding the offered information is never takenup.7 An Example of DMT Analysis:   Occurrences of games can contain occurrences ofother games or the same game within their scopes;they are mutually recursive.
The representations inDMT are really only about the beginnings and endsof game scopes, not about how the goals arepursued.
It is thus a very partial view of dialoguestructure.
It generally does not represent all of thegoals of a participant.
If the dialogue is taskoriented, there are task goals that may not berepresented.
The control of the interaction willtend to be well represented, but private and longterm goals less so.
Since DMT  applies to entiredialogues, it supplements views of sentences, turnsor inherently small collections of turns in dialogue.As an example, consider the dialogue excerptbelow.
It is part of the actual transcript of theApollo 13 mission to the moon, not the moviescript.The dialogue occurs near the end of the mission,after the major explosion and after manyemergency measures have been completed.
Thespacecraft is traveling toward earth, and thedialogue is concerned with completing the mission.The central concerns at this moment are managingfuel and adjusting the path of the spacecraft.
(Theindicated turns are from the original transcript.Successive turns by the same speaker sometimesindicate a silent interval.)
CMP and CC are NASAdesignators for the communicating parties;?Roger?
is jargon for ?I heard you.?
Thecommunication channel is continuously open, butradio quality varies.6 Unilaterals:It turns out that most dialogues do not consistentirely of goal pursuit that could be representedby dialogue macrogames.
Other things happen,even when the major activity is joint goal pursuit.DMT has a class of actions that do not involvejoint goals and that are generally confined to asingle turn.
They are called Unilateral Actions orUnilaterals.
The specific unilaterals currentlyrecognized are called Action and Tell.The entire text is part of an analysis diagrambelow.The text is an excerpt;  the beginning and end ofthe dialogue do not have the usual sorts ofgreetings, in part because the radio communicationmedium remains open even when all parties aresilent.
By training and because of the lifethreatening situation, everyone communicatesextremely carefully.
Extensive use of ?Roger?
andmultiple use of Clarification Seeking both indicatethis.There are other Unilaterals that are presentlyrepresented by a category, Media Management,representing communication that is primarilyinvolved with the medium of communication.There are also Unilaterals in categories calledPoliteness and Acknowledgement.
These should bedifferentiated further someday.All of the technical elements in the analysis havedefinitions in the DMT  framework.
This exampledialogue analysis is based on the definitions, butthey are too numerous to present.
The names arerepresentative, and the definitions are being madeavailable.
The Analysis Summary below shows thescopes (durations of use) of each instance of use ofa game according to the analysis.We noted above that DMT does not make directuse of the notion of turns in dialogue, and that itdoes not require that turns be coherentmonologues.
Given the bidding and termination ofgames as outlined above, DMT  would predict thatsome turns would terminate one game and bidanother, thus producing an incoherent fragment.Although this pattern is not seen in the exampledialogue below, it occurs.
Turns are apresentational convenience, but DMT analysissometimes requires other boundaries.33 It is somewhat problematic to be definite about thenature of turns.
In addition to game opening andclosing, there are overlapping, echoing, failedinterruptions, completions and competition for ?thefloor.?
All of these create variations on the simplenotion of turns.
Presentationally we try to use it onlywhere there are no subtleties.Analysis Summary Diagram: Apollo 13 Mission excerptTurn#depth 2 depth 1 GameCodeGame Name5 IO1 Information Offering13 CL1 Clarification Seeking1617 AS1 Action Seeking2223 IS1 Information Seeking32 CL2 Clarification Seeking3638 CL3 Clarification Seeking41The detailed analysis appears in a two pagediagram below.The following are diagram abbreviations:The graphic convention is described in the tablebelow.
The text is given, divided into turns, whichmay represent speaker alternations or some finerdivisions.
For each turn, there is a graphic anchorpoint.
There are columns which indicate the depthof embedding of the game.
The highest level, notembedded, is labeled depth 1.Event SketchA game is bid and accepted.IO1 oA game is pursuedTermination of a game is bid andaccepted.oA game is bid and the bid isrefused or ignored.CL2 oTermination of a game is bid andthe bid is refused or ignored.Game Actionsbg Bid Gameag Accept Gamebt Bid Termination of Gameat Accept Termination of Gamerg Refuse Bid of Gamert Refuse Bid of Termination ofGameThe following unilaterals appear in the example.UnilateralsMM Media ManagementACK AcknowledgementPOL PolitenessTELL Information ExpressionThe following are codes and game names used inthe analysis example.Game Names and CodesCode Game NameAS Action SeekingCL Clarification SeekingIO Information OfferingIS Information SeekingRefer to the two-page analysis diagram.The first four turns are identified as MediaManagement, one class of Unilaterals.
Theyestablish which ground control station is calling,and that the radio quality is adequate.
(Turnnumbers are from the original NASA transcript.
)In turn 5, CC is offering information to CMP.DMT analysis represents this as a bid of theInformation Offering game.
It suggests that thethree goals of the Information Offering game, asspecified by the identification of what informationis offered,  be adopted for immediate pursuit.
Theinitiator, who is the speaker of turn 5, would takeup the initiator?s goal and the joint goal.
Theresponder would take up the responder?s goal andthe joint goal.
The goals are not negotiatedindividually.In turn 6, CMP explicitly accepts the bid.
Explicitacceptance is rare.
Most often there is explicitlyonly an acknowledgement or, for most games,initial pursuit of the goals of the game.
This givingof information under this bid and acceptance is, inprinciple, indefinitely long.
Termination can occurin various ways, the most common beingaccomplishment of the goals of the game.The analysis diagram shows this use of theInformation Offering game as extending from turn5 through turn 16.
Within this scope, in turn 13,CMP bids the Clarification Seeking game.
This isnot quite a typical clarification seeking because thebidder knows the answer to his question.
The turnis saying, indirectly, that CC has failed to beexplicit about the sign of the number, plus orminus, and so it requests that CC be specific.
Incontext, the question is thus humorous.
Turn 14 isMedia Management, and so at an analytic level thebid has not been accepted or rejected.
Turn 15begins to provide the answer, and so accepts thebid in turn 13.
Turn 16 acknowledgesaccomplishment of the goals of the ClarificationSeeking game, the inner, most recently startedgame, and also the goals of the InformationOffering game.
The termination of these gamescan be identified by the fact that neither partycontinues to pursue goals of the games.In turn 17 a new episode starts with CMPrequesting an action by CC and the team on theground.
This is a bid of the Action Seeking game.Since turn 18 is an Acknowledgement, anotherUnilateral, it does not introduce or remove anygoals from being active.
Turn 19 accepts the bid,and as a promise to do the action it also bidstermination of the game.
Termination is acceptedin turn 20.Turn 21 is obscure.
It may involve fuel-burningparts of the spacecraft.
Assuming that, it isbackground information for some bid of a game inwhich there is talk about those parts or about fuel.Thus turns 21 and 23 together constitute a bid, inthis case of the Information Seeking game.
Turns24 through 28 manage a pause, one that is longenough that the ground control station identifiesitself again in turn 26.
Turns 29 through 31 beginto provide the information, and turns 33 through 36complete it and terminate the Information Seekinggame in the normal way.However, turn 32 attempts to get a clarification.As such it is a bid of the Clarification Seekinggame.
It is ignored, which is equivalent to beingrefused.4In turn 38 CMP again seeks a clarification, whichis a new bid of the Clarification Seeking game.
Itis pursued to closure in turn 41.8 Interpretation:What have we seen in this analysis??
It  shows a diversity of games in use:Information Offering, Action Seeking,Clarification Seeking and InformationSeeking.?
It illustrates game embedding.4 Conceptually, being ignored and being refused aredifferent.
But from the point of view of the analyst, andoften of the participant, there is often no discernabledifference.?
It shows how Media Management canarise inside a dialogue, and indicateshow to represent interactions withextensive confirmation.?
It shows a treatment of an ignoreditem.?
It shows particular Unilaterals in use.Beyond these, there is a sense in which the analysisabove is not yet complete.
The issue is: Does theanalysis show that the dialogue is coherent?Clearly it does not.
Finding a dialogue coherent isa subjective summary response to many factors,most of which are not within the scope of DMT.A better question is: Is the analysis consistent witha view that the dialogue is coherent?
Yes.
Thefact that it finds an analytic description for everyutterance of the dialogue supports the conclusionof coherence.
Clearly if some spoken elementshad no DMT status, that would be a basis forstrongly questioning the coherence of the dialogue.We can do better.
The constructs of DMT areorganized around intentions, so we can reasonablyask: Are the intention structures given in theanalysis consistent with the judgment that thedialogue is coherent?Other works have used the concept of MotivationalCoherence.
This means, informally, that everysubordinate goal conceivably contributes toadvancing its immediate supergoal, in acollectively consistent way.9 Games and Situations Already Examined:Based on the analysis of other dialogues, thefollowing games have been defined: InformationSeeking, Information Offering, PermissionSeeking, Permission Offering, Information Probe,Socratic Challenge, Action Offering, ActionSeeking, Plan Making, Clarification Seeking,Conversation Seeking.
The names, using termssuch as Seeking and Offering, are generallyoriented to the negotiation at the moment of gameinitiation, and to the characterization of the jointgoals of the game.
None of these are task orientedgames, although particular tasks use certain gamesfrequently.DMT has been developed principally by analysisof transcripts of natural dialogues.
Dialogues fromthe following kinds of situations have been used,generally each situation represented by dialoguesfrom a single source:Apollo 13 emergency radio conversations, Medicalinterviews, Airline cockpit pre-crash radio, Travelagents?
conversations, Administrative phone calls,Computer mediated Computer assistance,Laboratory conversational tasks, Courtroomquestioning of witnesses, Hostage negotiation,Mathematics tutoring, Electronics tutoring.
(It is easy to find dialogues that DMT can notrepresent.
We expect that to account in acomparable way  for natural dialogue as a whole,several other theories will be needed.
)The set of defined games and their particulardefinitions are in a preliminary stage.
By the timeof the workshop it may be possible to put gamedefinitions, numerous raw dialogues with analysesand analysts?
instructions for dialogue annotationon the Internet.10 Comparing DMT to Other Approaches:The section on terminology above noted that thereare many other dialogue analysis schemes.
In factthere are so many, including schemes underdevelopment, that some means of organizing themis needed.
In (Traum 2000)5, Traum provides 20questions that facilitate this organization.One of the well known dialogue analysis schemes,6used in the Edinburgh Maptask, is described in(Carletta, Isard et al 1997) (Carletta, Isard et al1996) How does MAP compare to DMT?Here we identify four aspects, focusing onapparent complexity:1.
Attempted coverage2.
Depth of analysis3.
Correspondence of terminology4.
Apparent Complexity10.1 Attempted coverage:For what range of dialogue situations is analysisattempted?
The MAP method is explicitly orientedto map following dialogue.
This design choice5 Also (Traum 1999).6 Here abbreviated MAP.impacts many elements of map following.
DMTattempts broad coverage; as indicated above,substantial coverage beyond map followingdialogue has been demonstrated at the exerciselevel.10.2 Depth of analysis:What aspects of each dialogue are represented?DMT is attempting to represent only the intentionstructure of dialogues.
This choice arises from aninterest in accounting for coherence in a broaddiversity of dialogue situations, and an assumptionthat coherence is based on intentions.
In contrast,MAP represents additional detail about how mapfollowing is done.
For example, given an ordinarycontext, DMT might represent the question ?Doyou have a stone circle at the bottom??
and also thequestion ?Towards what??
((Carletta, Isard et al1997) p. 18,19) as bids of the Information SeekingGame, where MAP would represent them asQUERY-YN and QUERY-W moves respectively.10.3 Correspondence of terminology:The two schemes use the same terms in differentways, and they have different terms for manyclosely comparable items.
How do terms line up?Generally, a forward looking move in MAP is abid of a macrogame in DMT.
Similarly backwardlooking moves in MAP correspond to acceptanceof macrogames in DMT.
The Game coding ofMAP identifies moves for which the correspondingintention persists over more than two turns.
Thusit codes length rather than a distinct kind ofstructures.
The Transaction coding in MAP isabout topic management.
DMT has nocorresponding structures.Often, and especially in the MAP task, we canview the backward looking move as implicitlydoing  several things: 1) It agrees to interactpursuing the just-introduced matter.
2) It acts toadvance that interaction, very often to fullsatisfaction of the prior move.
3) By completion, itsuggests that no more pursuit of the prior action isappropriate.
In DMT, there are three distinctrepresentations of these three actions.
Theycorrespond to a) accepting the bid of the game, b)pursuing the joint intention of the bid, 3) bidding(by satisfaction) the termination of the game.
Soin A: ?Are you hungry??
B: ?Yes,?
DMTencodes ?Yes?
as doing all three of these.
In bothsystems, the participants move on to somethingelse.
In DMT terms this moving on is implicitlyaccepting the termination of the game.10.4 Apparent Complexity:Corresponding to the four game manipulation actsof DMT, the Maptask method  appears to besimpler, needing only two.
What does the addedcomplexity do?
In DMT the  baseline ofrepresentation is that both parties are in control ofthe course of the dialogue.
It is negotiatedcooperatively.
This requires that each party be ableto accept a new topic or set of goals, and eachparty must be able to abandon goals.
The additionand dismissal of joint goals are negotiable.
Somesituations and some people very seldom reject anyproposal, but it is possible in principle.In designing the MAP representation, this wasrecognized:?It is also theoretically possible at anypoint in the dialogue to refuse to take onthe proposed goal?
.Often refusal takesthe form of ignoring the initiation ?However, it is also possible to make suchrefusals explicit?
.
These cases weresufficiently rare ?that it was impracticalto include a category for them.?
(Carletta,Isard et al 1997), p. 21,22.In the hope  of broad coverage   the possibilities ofrejection are made explicit in DMT.So we conclude that although MAP and DMT aresuperficially quite different, their approaches to theMaptask are underlyingly quite   similar.Other analysis methods are oriented to other tasks,with tutoring being perhaps the most common.Possibly the comparisons of DMT to othermethods would have many of the same features,since many of them would compare a non taskspecific method with a task specific method.11 Conclusions:As an exercised framework, DMT has anadvantage over its predecessor.
It can representthe entirety of a diverse collection of naturaldialogues.
Since it provides all of the previousmechanisms and more, and it also covers all of thedialogues that Dialogue Game Theory did.
Inaddition, DMT gives a formal descriptive place forthe many actions it calls Unilaterals, actions thatare an integral part of dialogue but do not have acooperative character.
References:Michael Bratman (1987).
Intentions, Plans andPractical Reasoning.
Cambridge: CambridgeUniversity Press.Because DMT macrogames consist entirely of setsof intentions, because those goals are accepted anddismissed together rather than individually, andbecause DMT is based on a negotiation metaphor,DMT provides a basis for describing two-partycoordinated control of dialogue.J.
Carletta, et al, (1996).
HCRC dialogue structurecoding manual, Human Communications ResearchCentre, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh,HCRC TR-82.
The coverage of DMT is broader than task orienteddialogues, suitably identified.
(While it is possibleto label every dialogue as task oriented, whichsome researchers have done, that is simply a wayof withdrawing the term from use.)
If we define?task oriented?
as requiring the presence of a jointgoal, i.e.
a goal that is known and actively pursuedby both parties, then even in the narrow sample ofuse of DMT so far, many of the analyzed dialoguesare not task oriented.
DMT has also been able toanalyze the entirety of all of the task orienteddialogues to which it has been applied.J.
Carletta, et al (1997).
The Reliability of aDialogue Structure Coding Scheme.Computational Linguistics 23(1): 13-32.Lauri Carlson (1983).
Dialogue Games: Anapproach to discourse analysis.
Boston: D. Reidel.Herbert H. Clark (1996).
Using Language.Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Robert T. Craig (1999).
Communication Theoryas a Field.
Communication Theory 9(2): 119-161.Robert  T. Craig and Karen Tracy, eds.
(1983).Conversational Coherence: Form, Structure andStrategy.
Sage Series in InterpersonalCommunication.
Beverly Hills:  Sage Publications.Comparing DMT to another analysis method fortask oriented dialogue,  DMT is able to representthe intention structure and coherence of suchdialogues in a task independent manner.Representation of negotiation of the course of thedialogue is explicit in DMT.Bryan K. Crow (1983).
Topic Shifts in Couples'Conversations, In  Conversational Coherence:Form, Structure and Strategy, R. T. Craig and K.Tracy (eds.).
Beverly Hills: Sage Publications,136-156.As we have seen, DMT is not linked to linguisticforms, since goals of interaction do not in generalmap to any specific words or forms.
We couldtherefore suggest that DMT, perhaps with someaugmentation of the set of games, would have abroad multilingual scope of coverage.
It would beworth examining.Donald G. Ellis (1983).
Language, Coherence, andTextuality, In  Conversational Coherence: Form,Structure and Strategy, R. T. Craig and K.
Tracy(eds.).
Beverly Hills: Sage Publications,  pp.222-240.Raymond W. Jr. Gibbs (1999).
Intentions in theExperience of Meaning.
Cambridge: CambridgeUniversity Press.Julia A. Goldberg (1983).
A Move   TowardDescribing Conversational Coherence, InConversational Coherence: Form, Structure andStrategy, R. T. Craig and K. Tracy (eds.
).Beverly Hills: Sage Publications,  pp.
25-45.H.
P. Grice (1975).
Logic and Conversation, InSyntax and Semantics, Volume 3 - Speech Acts, P.Cole and J. I. Morgan (eds.).
New York:Academic Press,  41-58.M.
A. K. Halliday and R. Hasan (1976).
Cohesionin English.
London: Longman.Leonard C. Hawes (1983).
ConversationalCoherence, In  Conversational Coherence: Form,Structure and Strategy, R. T. Craig and K.
Tracy(eds.).
Beverly Hills: Sage Publications,  pp.285-298.Robert Hopper (1983).
Interpretation as CoherenceProduction, In  Conversational Coherence: Form,Structure and Strategy, R. T. Craig and K.
Tracy(eds.).
Beverly Hills: Sage Publications,  pp.
81-98.H.
Kamp and U. Reyle (1993).
From Discourse toLogic Kluwer.J.
Kreutel and C Matheson, (2001).
Context-Dependent Interpretation and Implicit DialogueActs In:  P. Kuhnlein, H. Rieser and H.
Zeevat(eds.
),  5th Workshop on Formal Semantics andPragmatics of Dialogue (Bi-Dialog 2001)Bielefeld.
68-78.James A. Levin and James A. Moore (1977).Dialogue Games: Meta-Communication Structuresfor Natural Language Interaction.
CognitiveScience 1(4).William C. Mann, (1979).
Dialogue Games, USCInformation Sciences Institute, Marina del Rey,CA, ISI/RR-79-77.William C. Mann (1988).
Dialogue Games:Conventions of Human Interaction.Argumentation 2(1988): 511-532.William C. Mann, (2001).
Models of Intentions inLanguage In:  P. Kuhnlein, H. Rieser and H.Zeevat (eds.
),  5th Workshop on Formal Semanticsand Pragmatics of  Dialogue   Bielefeld.William C. Mann, et al, (1975).
ObservationMethods for Human Dialogue, USC InformationSciences Institute (ISI), Marina del Rey, CA,ISI/RR-75-33; U.S.Govt.
ERIC  ED112871.William C. Mann, et al, (1977).
An Assessment ofReliability of Dialogue-Annotation Instructions,USC Information Sciences Institute (ISI), Marinadel Rey, CA, ISI/RR-77-54;  U.S.Govt.
ERICED136779.M.
Poesio and D. R. Traum, (1998).
Towards anaxiomatisation of dialogue acts.
In:  J. Hulstijn andA.
Nijholt (eds.
),  Twente Workshop on the FormalSemantics and Pragmatics of DialoguesEnschede.
Universiteit Twente, FaculteitInformatica, 207-222.D.
Rumelhart (1975).
Notes on a Schema forStories, In  Representation and Understanding:Studies in Cognitive Science, D. D. Bobrow and A.Collins (eds.).
New York: Academic Press,Robert E. Sanders (1983).
Tools for CoheringDiscourse and Their Strategic Utilization, InConversational Coherence: Form, Structure andStrategy, R. T. Craig and K. Tracy (eds.
).Beverly Hills: Sage Publications,  pp.
67-80.R.
C. Schank and R. P. Abelson (1977).
Scripts,Plans, Goals and  Understanding.
Hillsdale, NewJersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.Stuart J. Sigman (1983).
Some MultipleConstraints Placed on Conversational Topics, InConversational Coherence: Form, Structure andStrategy, R. T. Craig and K. Tracy (eds.
).Beverly Hills: Sage Publications,David Traum, (1999).
20 Questions on DialogueAct Taxonomies In:  J. van Kuppevelt, N. vanLeusen, R. van Rooy and H. Zeevat (eds.
),Amstelogue '99   Amsterdam.
Faculty ofHumanities, University of Amsterdam,D.
R. Traum  (1994), A Computational Theory ofGrounding in Natural Language Conversation,Department of Computer Science, University ofRochester, Rochester, N.Y.D.
R. Traum (2000).
20 Questions for DialogueAct  Taxonomies.
Journal of Semantics 17(1): 7-30.Raimo Tuomela (2000).
Cooperation: APhilosophical Study.
Dordrecht: Kluwer AcademicPublishers.Ludwig Wittgenstein (1973).
PhilosophicalInvestigations.
New York: The MacmillanCompany.DMTAnalysis of an excerpt fromthe Apollo 13 Mission TranscriptTurn#SpeakerIDText fromGround, CCText fromSpacecraft, CMPUnilaterals GameActsGameNameGameIDdepth2depth11CCApollo 13, Houston.MMo2CMPGoahead.MMo3CCRoger.MMo4CCYou're coming in a little weak.MMo5CCHave a recommended roll rate for thisPTC, if you could copy.bgInfoOfferIO1o6CMPAll right.
Go ahead.ago.7CCOkay.ACKo8CCRecommend that you put in R1 thefollowing: 03750o9CCthat should give you exactly a rate of0.3 degrees per second.o10CCOverMMo11CMPOkay.ACKo12CMPEnter03750.o13CMPIs plus or minus our choice?bgClarify-SeekCL1o14CCRoger.MMo.15CCThe same direction you rolled lasttime, which I believe is plus.ag, bto..16CMPOkay.ato17CMPHey, Vance, would you monitorour rates and kind of give anidea of when you think they'restable enough to start PTC.bgAction-SeekAS1o18CCRoger, Jack.ACKo.19CCWe'll take a look and let you knowassoon as they look stable enough.ag, bto.20CMPOkay.ACKato21CMPI've got quads Aand Bdisabledhere.TELLo22CCRoger.ACKo23CMPHave they come up with an ideaof howmuch fuel I used on thedocking and also the P23 sessionat 5 hours or 6 hours.bgInfo-SeekIS2o24CCI think we can give yousomething.ago.25CCStand by a minute.MMo26CCApollo 13, Houston.MMo27CMPGoahead.MMo28CCOkay.MMo29CCIt's looking good so far as RCSconsumables are concerned, Jack.o30CCYou're standing about 20 poundsabove the curve right now.o31CCLooking at TD&E, you expended65 poinds or - Stand by - 55pounds, correction on that.o32CMPHowmuch?bgClarify-SeekCL2o33CCAnd 14 pounds on P23s.rgo34CCYou used a little more out of quadAthan out of the others.o35CMPOkay.ACKbto36CMPThanks,Vance.POLo37CCRoger.ACKo38CMPHey, could you say again theTD&Efuel?bgClarify-SeekCL3o39CMPWe've got a different - we allheard different things.o.40CCI said 65 and then corrected thatto 55 pounds.ag, bto..41CMPOkay.ato
