Unsupervised, corpus-based method for extendinga biomedical terminologyOlivier Bodenreider Thomas C. Rindflesch Anita BurgunLister Hill National Centerfor Biomedical CommunicationsNational Library of MedicineBethesda, Maryland, 20894 - USA{olivier|tcr}@nlm.nih.govLIM - University of RennesAvenue du Pr L?on Bernard35043 Rennes Cedex - FranceAnita.Burgun@univ-rennes1.frAbstractObjectives: To automatically extenddownwards an existing biomedical termi-nology using a corpus and both lexicaland terminological knowledge.
Methods:Adjectival modifiers are removed fromterms extracted from the corpus (threemillion noun phrases extracted fromMEDLINE), and demodified terms aresearched for in the terminology (UMLSMetathesaurus, restricted to disorders andprocedures).
A phrase from MEDLINEbecomes a candidate term in the Metathe-saurus if the following two requirementsare met: 1) a demodified term createdfrom this phrase is found in the terminol-ogy and 2) the modifiers removed to cre-ate the demodified term also modifyexisting terms from the terminology, for agiven semantic category.
A manual re-view of a sample of candidate terms wasperformed.
Results: Out of the 3 millionsimple phrases randomly extracted fromMEDLINE, 125,000 new terms wereidentified for inclusion in the UMLS.83% of the 1000 terms reviewed manuallywere associated with a relevant UMLSconcept.
Discussion: The limitations ofthis approach are discussed, as well as ad-aptation and generalization issues.1 IntroductionAlthough providing a reasonable coverage of theclinical subdomain, Chute et al (1996) showedthat terminological resources such as the Interna-tional Classificaton of Diseases, SNOMED Inter-national or the UMLS Metathesaurus do notcapture all the concepts needed for representingclinical concepts in patient records.
In a subsequentstudy, Chute and Elkin (1997) suggested that quali-fiers (including adjectival modifiers) be availableas a separate axis, in order to both increase the ex-pressivity of a terminology and reduce its com-plexity by limiting the number of pre-coordinatedterms.In this study, rather than reducing the complex-ity, we use modification phenomena in order toinvestigate a corpus-based methodology for auto-matically discovering new terms for inclusion in acontrolled vocabulary.
In other words, our objec-tive is to acquire hyponyms for terms in an originalvocabulary that appear in the literature but are notpresent in the original vocabulary.2 BackgroundTerms play a major role in a variety of natural lan-guage processing (NLP) applications, includingmachine translation, text understanding, automaticindexing, and information retrieval.
Taking advan-tage of the availability of large corpora, automaticterminology acquisition methods were developed,for example, by Bourigault and Jacquemin (1999).Word affinities generally play a central role inthese methods.
Grefenstette (1994) defines threeAssociation for Computational Linguistics.the Biomedical Domain, Philadelphia, July 2002, pp.
53-60.Proceedings of the Workshop on Natural Language Processing inorders of word affinities.
?First order affinities de-scribe collocates of words, second-order affinitiesshow similarly used words, and third-order affini-ties create semantic groupings among similarwords?.
In term extraction, this analysis is oftenapplied to modifiers in order to establish groups ofterms modified by a given modifier or the list of allpossible modifiers for a given term.Hersh et al (1996) demonstrated the feasibilityof applying natural language processing techniquesto a corpus of clinical narratives from an electronicmedical record (EMR) system.
Although the termsextracted were compared to existing terms in theUMLS, the goal of this study was vocabulary dis-covery, but not the automatic integration of newlydiscovered terms into the terminology.The automatic extension of an existing resourcebased on a corpus has also been studied.
For ex-ample, Habert et al (1998) propose a method forextending an existing specialized semantic lexicon.Although related to these studies, our objectiveis to automatically extend downwards an existingbiomedical terminology using a corpus and a com-bination of lexical, syntactic, and terminologicalknowledge.In this study, the textual source, or corpus, isMEDLINE?
1, the U.S. National Library of Medi-cine?s (NLM) premier bibliographic database.MEDLINE contains over eleven million referencesto articles from more than 4,600 worldwide jour-nals in life sciences with a concentration on bio-medicine.We use the Unified Medical Language System?(UMLS?)
Metathesaurus?
2 as the terminology tobe extended.
The Metathesaurus, also developedby NLM, is organized by concept or meaning.
Aconcept is defined as a cluster of terms represent-ing the same meaning (synonyms, lexical variants,acronyms, translations).
For example, names forthe disease multiple sclerosis include multiple scle-rosis, MS, ?multiple sclerosis, NOS?, disseminatedsclerosis, and scl?rose en plaques.
The 13th edition(2002) of the UMLS Metathesaurus contains over1.5 million unique English terms drawn from morethan sixty families of medical vocabularies, andorganized in some 775,000 concepts.1www.nlm.nih.gov/pubs/factsheets/medline.html2umlsks.nlm.nih.govIn order to address the large size of theMetathesaurus, we limited our study to a signifi-cant subdomain of clinical medicine: disorders andprocedures (currently about 615,000 unique terms,corresponding to some 157,000 disorder conceptsand 95,000 medical procedure concepts).In the UMLS, each concept is categorized bysemantic types (ST) from the semantic network.McCray et al (2001) designed groupings of STsthat provide a partition the Metathesaurus and,therefore, can be used to extract consistent sets ofconcepts corresponding to a subdomain, such asdisorders or procedures.Disorder and procedure terms were restricted toterms suitable for natural language processing, ex-cluding, for example, such terms as abdominal in-jury, NOS.
The notation ?NOS?, meaning ?nototherwise specified?, is a marker for underspecifi-cation often found in terminological resources.When identified in the Metathesaurus, obsolete andtruncated terms were also excluded.
477,491unique terms were selected for further processing.3 MethodsThe approach we propose for discovering candi-dates for Metathesaurus concepts is to comparephrases extracted from MEDLINE to currentUMLS phrases.
We capitalize on differences inmodification structure between the MEDLINEphrase and the UMLS phrase to determine candi-dates for inclusion in the Metathesaurus.
The cru-cial difference is between a phrase containingadjectival modification and a similar phrase ?de-modified?
by removing its adjectives.A phrase from MEDLINE becomes a candidateterm in the Metathesaurus if the following two re-quirements are met: 1) a demodified term createdfrom this phrase is found in the terminology and 2)similarly modified terms exist in the terminology,for a given semantic category.
For example, thephrase pancreatic bronchogenic cyst  is a candidateterm for a disorder in the Metathesaurus becausebronchogenic cyst  exists in the Metathesaurus(concept: C0006281) and other Metathesaurus dis-order terms are modified by the same adjectivepancreatic  (e.g., pancreatic hemorrhage).3.1 Processing phrases from MEDLINERecently, Srinivasan et al (2002) performed ashallow syntactic analysis on the entire MEDLINEcollection, using only titles and abstracts in Eng-lish.
Although their goal was to find Metathesaurusconcepts in MEDLINE citations, an interestingside-effect of their analysis was the production ofsome 175 million noun phrase types that are avail-able for further research.From these phrases, we selected the subset of?simple?
phrases, i.e., noun phrases excludingprepositional modification or any other complexfeature.
Examples of simple MEDLINE nounphrases include abdominal aneurysmal aortitis  andradical aggressive tumor resection.
Out of someforty million simple noun phrases, we randomlyselected a subset of three million phrases to beused as our corpus, representative of the nounphrases found in MEDLINE.The phrases in our sample were then submittedto an underspecified syntactic analysis describedby Rindflesch et al (2000) that draws on a stochas-tic tagger (see Cutting et al (1992) for details) aswell as the SPECIALIST Lexicon, a large syntacticlexicon of both general and medical English that isdistributed with the UMLS.
Although not perfect,this combination of resources effectively addressesthe phenomenon of part-of-speech ambiguity inEnglish.The resulting syntactic structure identifies thehead and modifiers for the noun phrase analyzed.Each modifier is also labeled as being adjectival,adverbial, or nominal.
Although all types of modi-fication in the simple English noun phrase werelabeled, only adjectives and nouns were selectedfor further analysis in this study.
For example, theterm catastrophic cervical spinal cord injuries  wasanalyzed as:[[mod([catastrophic,adj]),mod([cervical,adj]),mod([spinal,adj]),mod([cord,noun]),head([injuries,noun])]]A similar analysis was performed on UMLSterms for disorders and procedures.3.2 Comparing MEDLINE phrases to UMLSphrasesThe method we use can be summarized as follows.Starting with a random subset of three million sim-ple noun phrases from MEDLINE, we excludedthose that were already present in the UMLS bymapping them to the Metathesaurus.
We then per-formed a shallow syntactic analysis of the phrasesin order to select those consisting of one or moremodifiers followed by a head noun.Demodified terms were created by removingevery possible combinations of modifiers in theterms.
The same process was applied to disorderand procedure terms in the Metathesaurus in orderto obtain a list of allowable adjectival modifiers forthese two categories.
Such modifiers in theMetathesaurus serve as a filter for MEDLINEphrases, since finding a similarly modified term inthe UMLS is one of the two requirements for can-didate terms.
Demodified terms created from acci-dental arterial perforations  include arterialperforations, accidental perforations, and perfora-tions.Demodified terms derived from MEDLINEphrases whose modifiers are all allowable are thenmapped to the Metathesaurus.
In this example,both accidental  and arterial  are adjectives found inthe Metathesaurus in disorder or procedure terms.The second requirement for candidate terms is thatat least one associated demodified term be mappedto a concept in the Metathesaurus.
Two terms fromour example map to Metathesaurus concepts: arte-rial perforations  and perforations.
The term acci-dental perforations  does not map to any conceptand is therefore eliminated from further process-ing.
The last step ensures that, in case of multipledemodified terms, the finest-grained is selected.Arterial perforations  is selected over perforationsfor this reason.Figure 1 illustrates the sequence of methodsused in the study and the interactions betweenprocessing MEDLINE phrases and Metathesaurusterms.
It also presents the number of MEDLINEphrases and Metathesaurus terms present beforeand after each of the six steps detailed below.Step1.
Mapping phrases to the UMLSIn order to identify MEDLINE phrases that alreadyexist in the Metathesaurus, all MEDLINE phrasesin our sample were mapped to the UMLS by firstattempting an exact match between input term andMetathesaurus concept.
If an exact match failed,normalization was then attempted.
This processmakes the input and target terms potentially com-patible by eliminating such inessential differencesas inflection, case and hyphen variation, as well asword order variation.
Duplicate names were re-moved from each set prior to mapping to theUMLS.Step 2.
Identifying (adj+, noun*, head) phrasesSince this method is based on adjectival modifica-tion, the syntactic analysis was used to restrict theoriginal sets of MEDLINE phrases and Metathe-saurus terms to phrases and terms having the fol-lowing structure: (adj+, noun*, head).The phrase is required to start with an adjectivalmodifier, possibly followed by other adjectives andend with a head noun, possibly preceded by othernouns.
This specification excludes both simpleterms (e.g., one isolated noun) and complex terms,not suitable for our analysis.Step 3.
Creating demodified termsWhen adjectival modifiers are identified in a termO, a set of demodified terms {T1, T2,?,Tn} is cre-ated by removing from term O any combinationsof adjectival modifiers found in it.
While the struc-ture of the demodified terms remains syntacticallycorrect, the semantics of some terms may beanomalous, especially when adjectives other thanthe leftmost are removed.
Since most of them aresemantically valid, we found it convenient to keepall demodified terms for further analysis.
Demodi-fied terms with incorrect semantics will be filteredout later in the experiment, since they will not mapto an existing concept.The number of demodified terms is 2m ?
1, mbeing the number of adjectival modifiers.
For ex-ample, the term chronic sciatic constriction injurystarts with the two adjectival modifiers chronic  andsciatic, so that the following three demodifiedterms are generated sciatic constriction injury,chronic constriction injury, and constriction injury.Although there is no need to demodify UMLSterms in this study, the removal of adjectival modi-fiers was used to establish a list of adjectives oc-curring in disorder and procedure terms.
Theseadjectives constitute the list of allowable modifiersfor the two categories of terms studied.Step 4.
Searching for similarly modified termsin the MetathesaurusIn this study, one requirement for candidate termsis that a similarly modified term be present in theterminology.
The list of allowable modifiers com-puted from Metathesaurus terms at the previousstep provides a simple way to implement this con-straint.
For a given category, an allowable modifierindicates that some terms from this category aremodified by this modifier, i.e., that a similarlymodified term exists in the Metathesaurus.Practically, MEDLINE phrases whose adjecti-val modifiers do not all belong to the list of allow-able modifiers are excluded from further analysis,because, by definition, there will be no similarlymodified term in the Metathesaurus.Step 5.
Searching for demodified terms in theMetathesaurusThe second requirement for a MEDLINE phrase tobecome a candidate term is that a demodified termcreated from this phrase be found in the terminol-ogy.
Using only MEDLINE phrases whose adjec-tival modifiers all belong to the list of allowablemodifiers, the demodified terms created from thesephrases are mapped to the UMLS using the proce-dure previously described.
MEDLINE phrases withno demodified term mapped to a UMLS conceptare definitely excluded.
Demodified terms map-ping to concepts in categories other than disordersor procedures are also eliminated.As explained earlier, the compatibility of themodifiers of the candidate terms is checked againstthe list of allowable modifiers for the category ofthe Metathesaurus concept(s) to which a demodi-fied term mapped.
In some cases, a cadidate termis eliminated because the modified term maps to adisorder concept, while its modifiers are compati-ble with procedures (or the other way around).Step 6.
Hooking candidate terms to the termi-nologyThe remaining step consists of finding the appro-priate hook in the terminology for the candidateterm.
Based on the fact that modification is nor-mally associated with a hyponymic relation, tenta-tive parents for the candidate term will be thosethat map to the demodified terms generated fromthis term.When only one demodified term maps to aMetathesaurus concept, this concept is selected asthe tentative parent for the candidate term.
Whenseveral demodified terms map to Metathesaurusconcepts, the preference is given to the conceptthat is likely to be closest to the term.
As a surro-gate for closeness, we use the following heuristics:1) the fewer modifiers removed, the closer theterms, and 2) the candidate term and the demodi-fied term are closer if the modifier removed is theleftmost modifier.
In the rare cases where severaldemodified terms are deemed equally close to thecandidate term, they are all selected as tentativeparents.4 EvaluationA subset of 1000 candidate terms was randomlyselected to evaluate this method.
The existence of ahyponymic relationship between the candidateterm and the Metathesaurus concept(s) selected asvalid mappings for the demodified terms createdfrom the candidate term was evaluated by a manualreview performed by the authors.
A secondary ob-jective of this evaluation was to gain insights abouthow these methods could be tuned in order to pre-vent inaccurate mappings and select the most use-ful candidate terms.The following classification was used to de-scribe the quality of the hyponymic relationshipbetween the candidate term and the Metathesaurusconcept(s) selected: ?relevant?
means that thehooking of the candidate term to the terminologywas relevant, even if a more specific concept wasavailable; ?non relevant?
means that none of theMetathesaurus concepts selected was a correcthook for the candidate term; ?more or less rele-vant?
means that the Metathesaurus concepts se-lected were not irrelevant as hooks, but weredistant ancestors, i. e., too general for the relation-ship to be fully informative.
Finally, for polyse-mous candidate terms, it was not possible toevaluate the quality of the relationship with cer-tainty.5 ResultsOut of the 3 million randomly selected simpleMEDLINE phrases, 125,464 phrases were selectedas candidate terms with (at least) one Metathesau-rus concept to hook them to.
Details about thenumber of phrases selected at each step of theprocessing are given in Figure 1.The total number of adjectival modifiers foundin a MEDLINE phrase ranged from 1 to 7.
Phraseswith one (42% of the phrases) or two (46% of thephrases) modifiers predominated.
The candidateterms resulted from removing one modifier fromthe original phrase in 66% of the cases, and twomodifiers in 30% of the cases.
The modifier(s) re-moved included the leftmost modifier in 95% ofthe cases.
The list of the most frequent modifiers inexisting terms and candidate terms for disordersand procedures is given in Table 1.In 78% of the cases, only one demodified termwas generated from the original phrase.
Two de-modified terms were generated in 17% of thecases.
In 61% of the cases, only the leftmost adjec-tive was removed.
The first two adjectives in thephrase were removed in 29% of the cases.Out of the 1000 candidate terms reviewed ashyponyms of some Metathesaurus concept, 834were considered relevant, 28 more or less relevant,and 138 not relevant.6 DiscussionThis study confirms the observations made in twoprevious studies taking advantage of adjectivalmodification phenomena in various tasks related toterminologies, in particular to suggest hyponymicrelations among medical terms [Bodenreider et al(2001)] and to assess the consistency of a biomedi-cal terminology [Bodenreider et al (2002)].Although a larger-scale evaluation would be re-quired to fully assess the results, the major findingis that the method is effective at automaticallyidentifying many new terms for inclusion into anextended terminological resource.
However, theevaluation revealed some limitations which areanalyzed below.
Adaptation and generalizationissues will be addressed as well.LimitationsThe errors discovered during the manual reviewillustrate some of the limitations of this method.More exactly, these limitations are common tomany NLP applications.
Although acronyms weresometimes associated with their correct meaning inthe Metathesaurus, in the set of terms reviewedmanually, the presence of acronyms was responsi-ble for 22% of the non-relevant associations.
Forexample, the MEDLINE term individual blackrats, whose two adjectival modifiers are allowabledisease modifiers, is wrongly identified as a hypo-nym of recurrent acute tonsillitis  because the ac-ronym RAT is associated (as a synonym) with thedisease recurrent acute tonsillitis  in the Metathe-saurus.
In some cases, failure to identify the correctpart of speech also resulted in inaccurate associa-tions (e.g., controlling stress  to stress  where con-trolling was actually not an adjective).
Not alltruncated terms present in the Metathesaurus syno-nyms of some concepts are identified as such.When not identified, truncated terms are used forthe mapping, sometimes resulting in inaccurateassociations.
For example, the candidate term uri-nary protein is wrongly associated with the con-cept protein measurement  because protein isconsidered a synonym for the procedure proteinmeasurement  in the Metathesaurus.Sometimes, the association is not inaccurate,but the concept associated with the candidate termis very general, and the relationship weakly infor-mative.
For example, once demodified, aplasticsyndrome  is associated with syndrome, a conceptclose to the top of the hierarchy.
Although aplasticsyndrome  is a valid hyponym of syndrome, itwould be more accurately categorized as a kind ofhematologic syndrome, which requires domainknowledge unavailable here.Finally, in some cases, because hyponymy isthe only relation considered, the association of acandidate term with a Metathesaurus concept, al-though relevant, is not necessarily the closest pos-sible.
For example, the term colonic vaginal fistulais correctly associated with its hypernym vaginalfistula, but fails to be identified as a synonym ofthe concept fistula of vagina to large intestine.Practically, in a completely automatic setting, theuse of this algorithm could result in creating sev-eral concepts for the same meaning.TuningThis algorithm can be tuned from a strict mode,allowing fewer phrases to automatically becomecandidate terms, but with greater precision, to arelaxed mode, selecting a larger number of candi-date terms when recall is the priority.
The latterwould require some supervision prior to integratingthe candidate terms into the terminology.Almost all the limitations mentioned above canbe addressed.
Terms containing acronyms could beidentified and eliminated before mapping to theMetathesaurus.
Part of speech taggers trained on aterminology would more accurately identify thepart of speech of words that can be both adjectivesand nouns.
Truncated Metathesaurus terms shouldbe systematically excluded from the index used formapping.
Methods for identifying synonymy basedon derivational variation or other techniques couldalso be investigated.Moreover, additional refinement could bebrought to this method.
For example, when de-modified terms are created, the removal of adjec-tives could be restricted to the leftmost, thusmaximally preserving the structure of the remain-ing noun phrase, and therefore limiting the risks ofassociation with a semantically distant concept.Finally, using statistical information about thedistribution of adjectival modifiers could provide asurrogate for the strength of the association.
Forexample, knowing that many diseases can be acute,if this adjective is found in the corpus as the modi-fier of a disease concept, this association could beaccepted with a confidence proportional to therelative frequency of this modifier for all diseases,in the case of acute for a disease, a high confi-dence.GeneralizationThe method presented was voluntarily restricted tothe domain of disorders and procedures, to adjecti-val modification, and to the biomedical literature.Generalizing to other domains would pose noproblems as long as terms of their terminology isamenable to natural language processing tech-niques and modification phenomena.
This wouldinclude domains such as anatomy or physiology.However, domains such as molecular biology, withmany gene and gene product names, and chemis-try, with many chemical names would probablyyield fewer candidate terms.Nominal modification is common in Englishand in principle can be addressed with a methodol-ogy similar to the one discussed here.
Nominalmodifiers often express a quality more closely re-lated semantically to the head than do adjectives.Details in the methodology would be adjusted toaccommodate this characteristic.Generalization to other corpora such as patientrecords and electronic textbooks of medicinewould likely yield additional terms.Finally, although this method relies on featuresof the UMLS such as the semantic categorizationof the concepts, it could also be applied to otherterminologies that do not provide this feature, suchas the Medical Subject Headings (MeSH).
In thiscase, the concept hierarchy itself could be used as asurrogate for the categorization.
For example, ifthe candidate term chronic rheumatic fever  is asso-ciated with the MeSH term rheumatic fever, itscategory is disease because the polyhierarchicalstructure in which rheumatic fever  is involved ul-timately converges to the top of the C hierarchy,i.e., the term diseases.ReferencesBodenreider, O., Burgun, A., and Rindflesch, T. C.(2001).
Lexically-suggested hyponymic relationsamong medical terms and their representation in theUMLS.
Proceedings of TIA'2001 "Terminology andArtificial Intelligence", 11-21.Bodenreider, O., Burgun, A., and Rindflesch, T. C.(2002).
Assessing the consistency of a biomedicalterminology through lexical knowledge.
Proceedingsof the Workshop on Natural Language Processing inBiomedical Applications (NLPBA'2002), 77-83.Bourigault, D., and Jacquemin, C. (1999).
Term Extrac-tion + Term Clustering: An Integrated Platform forComputer-Aided Terminology.
Proceedings of theNinth Conference of the European Chapter of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics (EACL'99).Chute, C. G., Cohn, S. P., Campbell, K. E., Oliver, D.E., and Campbell, J. R. (1996).
The content coverageof clinical classifications.
For The Computer-BasedPatient Record Institute's Work Group on Codes &Structures.
J Am Med Inform Assoc  3, 224-233.Chute, C. G., and Elkin, P. L. (1997).
A clinically de-rived terminology: qualification to reduction.
ProcAMIA Annu Fall Symp, 570-574.Cutting, D. R., Kupiec, J., Pedersen, J. O., and Sibun, P.(1992).
A practical part-of-speech tagger.
Proceed-ings of the Third Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing, 133-140.Grefenstette, G. (1994).
Corpus-derived first, secondand third-order word affinities.
Paper presented at:EURALEX (Amsterdam).Habert, B., Nazarenko, A., Zweigenbaum, P., andBouaud, J.
(1998).
Extending an existing specializedsemantic lexicon.
Proceedings of the First Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation, 663-668.Hersh, W. R., Campbell, E. H., Evans, D. A., andBrownlow, N. D. (1996).
Empirical, automated vo-cabulary discovery using large text corpora and ad-vanced natural language processing tools.
ProcAMIA Annu Fall Symp, 159-163.McCray, A. T., Burgun, A., and Bodenreider, O.
(2001).Aggregating UMLS semantic types for reducing con-ceptual complexity.
Medinfo  10, 216-220.Rindflesch, T. C., Rajan, J. V., and Hunter, L. (2000).Extracting molecular binding relationships frombiomedical text.
In "Proceedings of the 6th AppliedNatural Language Processing Conference" (SanFrancisco, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers), pp.
188-195.Srinivasan, S., Rindflesch, T. C., Hole, W. T., andAronson, A. R. (2002).
Finding UMLS Metathesau-rus concepts in MEDLINE.
Proc AMIA Annu FallSymp, (submitted).Table 1.
Most frequent modifiers identified in existing terms (UMLS)and candidate terms (MEDLINE) for disorders and procedures.Disorder terms Procedure termsMEDLINE UMLS MEDLINE UMLSsevere congenital using surgicalchronic acute clinical serumacute accidental two diagnosticprimary intentional routine dentalhuman chronic conventional localrecurrent pulmonary surgical therapeuticpulmonary malignant initial totalmultiple cerebral human patienttwo renal total percutaneousmalignant benign standard cardiac2,979,060phrases not in UMLS3,000,000randomly selected?simple?
MEDLINE phrasesmap toUMLS477,491unique English terms(disorders and procedures)1,586,469UMLS Metathesaurusunique English termsselect disorders +procedures79,610(mod+, head) terms(adj+, noun*, head)filterremovemodifiers3,114proceduremodifiers6,951disordermodifiers1,322,468(mod+, head) phrases2,826,848demodified terms1,619,338selected demodified terms130,352selected demodified terms +UMLS mapping (diso./proc.
)(adj+, noun*, head)filterremovemodifiersfiltermodifiersmap toUMLS125,464candidate termsselectmapping Figure 1.
Summary of the methods for comparing MEDLINE phrases to UMLS terms.
