A Knowledge Based Approach to Identification of Serial Verb Construction inChinese-to-Korean Machine Translation SystemDong-il Kim?, Zheng-Cui, Jinji-Li?
?, Jong-Hyeok LeeDepartment Computer Science and Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering Division,Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH)and Advanced Information Technology Research Center (AlTrc)San 31 Hyoja Dong, Pohang, 790-784, KoreaE-mail: {dongil, cuizheng, ljj,jhlee}@postech.ac.kr?
Also an assistant professor at Yanbian University of Science& Technology (YUST) Yanji, Jilin, China.??
Also a lecturer at YUSTAbstractionIn Chinese language processing, therecognition and analysis for serial verbconstructions (SVCs) is a fascinating researchtopic.
Chinese language researchers each mayhave a different definition and interpretation ofSVC since the structure of SVC makes Chineseunique to other languages and contains complexsemantic and pragmatic information.
This paperproposes a formal definition of SVC and aknowledge based approach for the recognition ofSVCs, which is adopted in TOTAL-CK, atransfer-based MT system from Chinese toKorean.
The recognition process is carried out intwo stages: the analysis stage classifies SVCsinto general categories, and the transfer stageperforms further classification for Koreantransfer.
Some evaluation result for each stagewas also given with statistics of each category ofSVCsIntroductionMany Chinese language researchers have paidspecial attention to the so-called ?serial verbconstructions (SVCs)?, where two or moresemantically or pragmatically related verbphrases or clauses are juxtaposed togetherwithout any functional marker.
Because ofdifferent definitions and interpretations of SVCsamong researchers, their categorizations differaccording to researchers?
viewpoints.In a Chinese to Korean machine translation,the hidden relation of the serial verbs should beexpressed with some function words from thetarget language viewpoint.
Moreover, theconceptual scope of these function words isdifferent from the scope of SVC categorizationsthat are classified based on the viewpoint of theChinese language itself.In this paper, we proposes a differentcategorization of SVCs defined by thecontrastive analysis of the two languages, andalso an SVC identification method that isadopted in a Chinese-to-Korean MT system,TOTAL-CK.
The TOTAL (Translator Of ThreeAsian Languages: Chinese, Korean andJapanese) project has been conducted under ahybrid strategy with transfer-based andexample-based engines.1.
Language Characteristics betweenChinese and KoreanIn this section, some contrastive analyses ofthe two languages are introduced for betterunderstanding of an SVC sentence.
SinceChinese is an isolating language, morphologicalor syntactic markers rarely appear in a sentence,while in an agglutinative language such asKorean, these functional markers are not anoptional unit but an obligatory unit in a sentence.An example is given in (1).
Notice that theKorean alphabets are written with YaleRomanization in this paper.
(1) ?
??
???
(ta kai-men jin-qu)Ku-nun  mwun-ul  yel-ko   duleka-nta.He-NOM  door-ACC open-CON get in-PRENT-DEC.He opens the door and enters (the room).In the Korean sentence, ko is a connectiveparticle, and also nun, ul, and nta denote a topicauxiliary particle, an object case particle anddeclarative terminative ending, respectively.
Allthese functional markers should be decided inthe Korean transfer stage.
Specifically, werequire a process to select one from the possibleconjugational markers when a Chinese SVCsentence is transferred to its Korean counterpart.2.
Related WorksA SVC is studied among several researchersas different names.
But the general syntacticform is (NP) V1 (NP) V2 (NP)1.
The variance ofdefinition for SVC comes from the differentscope of interpretation for the sentence pattern.We will introduce three typical researches toclearly outline our definition of SVC.
Thenarrowest view of scope is suggested in (L?,1953).
In his interpretation, V1 and V2 have thesame subject and should be not coordinative, butit is difficult to decide which one is main oradditional.
Zhu (Zhu, 1981) includes all casesof L?
?s and the possibility of adding an adjectiveto substitute for the second verb position.
Healso includes the case where an additional verband a main verb are used, such as  V+?expression in V1 position, which indicates thatV1 is additional and V2 is main.
The broadestscope is proposed in (Li & Thompson, 1981).According to his interpretation, an SVC includesnot only all the patterns noted above but also apivot construction, a subject/object clause, and acoordinate clause, but excludes the pattern withan adjective in the V2 position.
In this paper, thescope of SVC is almost same as Li?s but theclassification of SVCs differs slightly, detailingthe categorization in chapter 4.A few computational solutions to identifyingSVCs have been proposed by some researchers.A formal description is shown in  (Chan, 1998)using time lapse notation and the relateddefinition.
However, her method makes itdifficult to computationally detect SVCs withoutthe resources containing the deep level ofanalysis of each lexical, which is not obtainablein the current stage of language processing.1 V1 : first verb, V2 : second verb, NP : noun phrase.3.
Overview of TOTAL-CK SystemArchitectureAs a typical transfer system, TOTAL-CKconsists of three parts: Chinese analysis,dependency tree transfer, and Korean generation.The system architecture of TOTAL-CK is shownin figure 1.
The design principles and the detaildescriptions are given in (Kim et al, 2002).Figure 1: TOTAL-CK system architecture4.
Classification of Serial VerbConstructionIn the previous chapter, we mentioned thesyntactic format of SVCs which is NP V1 (NP)V2 (NP) and the different scope of definition ofSVCs by the Chinese language researches.
Tooutline the scope of SVCs, we define SVCs interms of dependency relation such that V1 is thehead of V2, or V2 is the head of V1.
It isformally defined as follows:Definition 1Let N represent a set of nodes in a dependencytree, and W a set of words.
Further Let V be aset of verbs, and P be a set of all parts of speechin Chinese.
Then the functions: head, nw, andnpos, are defined as below:head(n) =hn where n?N and hn is the head of nnw(n) = w where n ?N and  w ?
Wnpos(n) = np where n ?N and  np ?PA definition of SVC is:Given a node n such that npos(n) ?
V andHead(n) = hn,If and only if npos(hn) ?
V and hn is the head ofa given sentence then the sentence is a SVC.The three sentences from the top of table 1satisfy the given condition.
Also the head ofthe node is the sentence head, thus these mustbe SVCs.
For the  last sentence, nw(n) is ?
?, and nw(Head(n)) is ??
whose the POSis not verb and also whose the node is not thesentence head.
Thus it is not an SVC.Sentence nw nwh SH SVC??????
?
?
Yes Yes??????????
?
?
Yes Yes????????
?
?
Yes Yes????????????1000????
??
No NoTable 1: Example of Testing SVCWhere nw: nw(n); nwh: nw(head(n)); SH :testing ifhead(n) is the sentence head ; n is a given node.Our definition is employed to recognize aSVC in the Chinese analysis stage.
First wedescribe the classification that is used in theChinese analysis stage.4.1 Categories in Chinese Analysis StageAll dependency relations, which are detectedby the above definition, are classified into fivecategories: separate events, object, subject,pivotal construction and descriptive clauses,based on the classification of Li (Li &Thompson, 1981).4.1.1 Separate EventsThe serial verb patterns classified by mostresearchers belong to this group where switchingV1 to V2 provides us a different meaning.
Inaddition, we add the case where transposing V1to V2 provides us the same meaning in thisgroup.4.1.2 ObjectIf V2 is the main verb in an object clause or aobject phrase then it belongs to this group.4.1.3 SubjectIf V1 is the main verb in the subject clause orsubject phrase, it is assigned to this group.4.1.4 PivotIf the noun phrase between V1 and V2 is theobject of V1 and the subject of V2, then it is apivot construction.4.1.5 DescriptiveIf V2 describes the noun phrase between V1and V2, then it is a descriptive SVC.All categories of SVCs are shown in Table 2The corresponding Chinese dependencyrelations to object, subject and pivotconstructions also appear in the some research inChinese language processing (Zhou & Huang,1994) but the other two are not shown due totheir different viewpoints.The descriptive construction is directly able tobe one-to-one mapped to the Korean counterpart.However the separate event SVCs should befurther classified for Korean transfer since theseparate event SVC is possibly mapped intosentences with several different Koreanconjunctional particles.
Thus, it is touched inthe transfer stage.Category ExampleSeparate Event ?????
; ????????
?Object ?????????
?Subject ???????
?Pivot ???????
?Descriptive ??????????
?Table 2: Examples of SVC category4.2 Subcategories in Transfer StageThe separate event SVC for each sense ofKorean conjunctional particles is classified intothe following subcategories: restrictive,quasi-coordinative, simultaneous, transitional,and circumstantial by the Korean languageviewpoint.4.2.1 RestrictiveThe action of V2 is performed under therestriction given by V1.
There are differenttypes of restriction, such as space, group-related,causal, and instrumental.
The examples arepresented in table 3.Sentence V1 V2 Rtype??????????????2???
??
space?????????????
??
??
group??????????
??
??
causal?????????????????????
??
toolTable 3: Examples of Restrictive Separate Events2  The sentence can also be interpreted as purposiveseparate events.
But it is included into a restrictive separateevent SVC because it is impossible to detect the differencesbetween restrictive and purposive, as this requirespragmatic level information4.2.2 Quasi-CoordinativeIn quasi-coordinative, two different casesexist.
First, transposing V1 to V2 never causes ameaning shift of the sentence, named alternative.The other is that V1 and V2 are onlysequentially related, called consecutive.4.2.3.
SimultaneousIn a simultaneous case, V1 and V2 occur at thesame time.4.2.4 TransitionalIf the action of V1 is interrupted by the actionV2, then it is transitional.4.2.5 CircumstantialWhen V2 occurs on the condition of the actionof V1, then it is classified as a circumstantialcase.The examples for rests of the separate eventare given in Table 4.Type ExampleQ-Coordinative ?????????(alternative)??????
(consecutive)Simultaneous  ?????
?Transitional ?????????
?Circumstantial ????
?Table 4: Examples of Separate EventsIn restrictive, quasi-coordinate, simultaneous,transitional, and circumstantial separate eventSVC Chinese sentences, all the above verbs aremapped into the corresponding Korean verbfollowed by the Korean conjunctional particle?se?, ?ko?, ?un-chay-lo?, ?taka?
and ?myen?,respectively.5.
Identification of SVCsTo recognize SVCs, we divide the identifyingprocess into two stages.
The general categoriesof SVCs are able to be found at the analysisstage and the subcategories of a separated eventSVC are detected in the transfer stage.5.1 Analysis StageTo recognize the five general categories ofSVCs, two resources are used: one is theGrammatical Knowledge Base of ContemporaryChinese (GKBCC) and the other is a verb listwith valency information (VLVI) (Zhu et al,1995).
Checking a verb in GKBCC allows usto simply detect a pivot SVC.
The remainders ofthe other types of SVCs should be carefullyhandled.
There are two possible ambiguousstructures of SVCsCase 1 : NP V1 V2 (NP2)Case 2 : NP V1 NP1 V2 (NP2)Where NP, NP1 and NP2 are noun phrases.The algorithm for each case is illustrated infigure 2 and figure 3.
In Figure 3, the test ?V1takes NP & VP?
means that the verb ??
canhave a noun phrase or an object clause as anobject.
The test, ?satisfy valency?
denotes thatthe second verb  ??
takes a human subject,and  ???
can be the subject of the verb ?
?,thus it is classified as an object case.
For theother sentence, since ??
cannot be the subjectof the verb ?
?, it is determined as a subjectcase.SVC sentenceY Object SVCEx) ???????
an object exists?NSeparate Event SVCEx) ??????
?Figure 2: Algorithm of Detecting SVC for Case 1Subject SVCEx) ???????????????
?SVC sentenceFigure 3: Algorithm of Detecting SVC for Case 2Object SVCEx) ?????????
?Y V1 takesNP &VPNNYV2 takes VPas Sub.
?NSeparate Events SVCEx) ??????????
?YDescriptive SVCEx) ?????????????
?Subject SVCEx) ???????????????????
?V2 takes VPas Sub.
?NSatisfyValency ?Y5.2 Transfer StageThe simultaneous separate events is easilyrecognized by the lexical (?)
attached to the firstverb.
Also, we use a simple heuristic to detectthe circumstantial separate events with thelexical pattern information.The resource used in this stage is a Chinesethesaurus called Tongyi-ci-cilin (Mei, 1983).With the thesaurus the remainders of separateevent SVCs are processed with great care.
If V2is related to the interrupt concept then thetransitional separate events are assigned.
Themost difficult and frequently occurring cases arethe restrictive separate events andquasi-coordinative separate event.The key idea of using the thesaurus is basedon the observation that the verb V2, if restrictedby V1 makes it possible that the concept of V2will also be restricted by the concept of V1.
Tocomplete the solution, we first define therelations: RSTV, RSTL and RSTM as follows:Definition 2We define the relations: RSTV, RSTL, andRSTM, as follows:RSTV= {(V1,V2)  where V1 and V2 are thefirst verb and second verb in a given SVCsentence and V2 is semantically restricted byV1 : (V1,V2)  (V2,V1)} ?RSTL= {(CL1,CL2) where CL1 and CL2 arethe low level concept of the first verb and thelow level concept 3  of second verb in theChinese thesaurus, respectively, and CL2 issemantically restricted by CL1 : (CL1,CL2) ?
(CL2,CL1)}RSTM= {(CM1, CM2) where CM1 and CM2are the middle level concept of the first verb andthe middle level concept of second verb in theChinese thesaurus, respectively, and ML2 issemantically restricted by ML1 : (ML1,ML2) ?
(ML2, ML1)}The relations RSTV, RSTL, and RSTM arenot symmetric and not reflexive.
Based on thedefinition we derive the following heuristics:if (V1,V2)?
RSRV then (CL1,CL2) ?RSTLBut if (V1,V2) ?
RSTV then not always(CM1,CM2) ?
RSTM.3 The thesaurus consists of three levels of hierarchy.
Forexample, H, Hj, and Hj20 correspond to the one of highestconcept, the next narrow term called middle-level conceptand the narrowest term called low-level concept,respectively.All three examples from the top of table 5satisfy the condition that, if (V1, V2)  RSTVthen (CL1,CL2)?
?RSTL and (CM1,CM2) ?RSTM.
If the condition is always true, then weuse the middle-level concept relation fordetecting a restrictive separate event in order toincrease the applicability of our rules.
Also, thedata structure of RSTM is easily representedwith an adjacent matrix with the size of 21*21 4(Sahni, 1998) where the matrix M is a squarematrix, whose column and row are themiddle-level concept, and if M(i,j) = 1 thenconcept j is semantically restricted by concept i,otherwise (i,j) ?RSTM.RSTV RSTL RSTM ExampleV1 V2 CL1 CL2 CM1 CM2????????????????????
?Hj20 Hi21 Hj Hi???????????????
?Hj20 Hj12 Hj Hi????????????????????
?Hj36 Hj14 Hj Hi????????????????
?Hi17 Hj20 Hi HjTable 5: Example of RSTV, RSTL and RSTMHowever, the last example reveals that thecondition is not always true since we have theresult, both (Hi,Hj) and (Hj,Hi) ?
RSTM.Thus, it violates the definition of RSTM.
Hence,we may not directly use the middle-level conceptadjacent matrix and the size of the low-levelconcept matrix is too large to be used.5We come up with a solution of a frame withmulti level concepts.
The frame consists of threeparts: the middle-level concept adjacent matrix,the low-level concept adjacent lists and thecollocation serial verb list for detecting a serialverb that always appears together.Our solution is that the exceptional cases arecovered by either the collocation verb lists or thelow-level concept adjacent list.
The remainingfrequently occurring cases are captured by themiddle-level adjacent matrix.
This leads to thesparse matrix of the low-level concept which4 The number of verbs related middle-level concept in theChinese thesaurus is 21.5 The number of verbs related low-level concepts in theChinese thesaurus is about 500.causes the adaptation of adjacent lists rather thanan adjacent matrix for the low-level concepts.The order of searching the frame is thecollocation list, the low-level concept list and themiddle-level concept matrix.
In the collocationlist, if V1 and V2 belongs to the collocation listof the restrictive separate events, such as ????
or the one of quasi-coordinative, such as ????
then the sentence is assigned to a restrictivecase or a quasi-coordinative case, respectively.In the low-level concept lists and themiddle-level concept matrix, if matchingsucceeds, which means that V2 is semanticallyrestricted by V1, then a restrictive case isassigned; otherwise, a quasi-coordinate case isdetected6.
The detailed process for identifyingthe subcategories of separate events is shown infigure 4.6.
EvaluationWe randomly selected 1000 SVC sentencesfrom 1998 people?s daily newspapers.
Thenumber of verbs in the sentence is two since ourdependency parser is still being improved todetect the sentences with multiple embeddingclauses.
In table 6, the distribution of each typeof SVC and the precision are shown.Type Frequency PercentageSeparate events 402 40.2Object 479 47.9Subject 31 3.1Pivot 39 3.9Descriptive 1 0.1Error 56 5.6(Presicion:94.4%)Total 1000 100Table 6: Distribution of Categories of SVCThe precision is 94.4% and some of the errorsoccur from the tagger, thus some sentences arenot SVCs.
The rest of the errors result frommissing information in the knowledge bases:6  For a sentence ???????????
where therelation (Hj20,Hj12) is not in the low-level adjacent list, but(Hj,Hi) is 1 in the middle-level matrix, it is assigned to therestrictive case, while for the sentence ????????????
where (Hi17,Hj20) is in the low-level adjacent list,thus searching is stopped, it is assigned as a restrictive case.A sententence ????????
do not satisfy allconditions, thus it is detected as Quasi-Coordinate.Separate Event SVCFigure 4: Detection Algorithm of Subcategory ofSeparate Event SVC.GKBCC and VLVI.
We need the complete listof verbs, which has a clause as a subject.
Theseverbs in the list will be gradually collected infuture works.The evaluation table for the separate eventSVCs is provided in Table 7.Type Frequency PercentageRestrictive 153 38.5Quasi-coordinative 184 45.7Simultaneous 33 8.2Transitional 3 0.7Circumstantial 12 2.9Error 19 4.7(Precision:95.3%)Total 402 100Table 7: Result of Separate EventNNV2 is InterruptConcept ?V1 & V2 in middle-level concept?NRestrictiveSeparate EventsQuasi-Coordinate SeparateEventsNV1 & V2 in low-level concept?NNInRestrictive ?YYYY V1 & V2 inCollocation list?In QuasiCoordinate?YY SimultaneousSeparate EventsV1 with ?
?NCircumstantialSeparate EventsY  Match lexicalPattern ?NTransitionalSeparate EventsYThe precision of identifying the category ofseparate event is 95.3%.
The errors resulted froma circumstantial case since our heuristics is toorestrictive to detect all cases, thus, it might berevised further, and since the low-level conceptlists are not completed.
The low-level conceptlists will be continuously updated for increasingcoverage in the tuning stage of the machinetranslation system.Table 8 shows the distribution of thesubcategory of restrictive separate events forKorean transfer.Type Frequency PercentageSpace 86 56.2Group-related 38 24.8Causal 17 11.1Instrumental 12 7.9Total 153 100Table 8: Category of Restricted Separated EventIn table 9, the frequency for each type ofaccessed resource is listed.
Notice that mostrestrictive separate event SVCs are recognized inthe middle-level matrix.
The two cases incollocation are all the case of quasi-coordinative,thus, the total number is greater than 153.Type of accessedresourceFrequency PercentageMiddle-level matrix 121 78.0Low-level list 32 20.6Collocation list 2 1.29Total 155 100Table 9: Access Frequencies for Resource TypeFigure 5: Demo system of TOTAL-CKIn figure 5, a demo system of TOTAL-CK isillustrated.
For a given Chinese SVC sentencedisplayed in the top position of the right-mostwindow, the corresponding Korean sentence isfollowed in the next row.
The tagged results,the segment of chunking, and the Chinesedependency tree with indentation are shown ineach window from left to right.Conclusion and Future workIn this paper, we formally define serial verbconstructions, and classified the SVC intoseveral categories.
These categories are relatedto the analysis stage and the transfer stage ofTALK-CK.
We provided a resolution algorithmdetecting SVCs in each step.
Finally, at eachstage, a promising experimental result is shown.Further research must help to better resolvethe conditional separate event SVC andpurposive separate event SVC.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported by the KoreaScience and Engineering Foundation(KOSEF)  through the Advanced InformationTechnology Research Center(AITrc).ReferencesChan  Y. W. (1998) Formal Criteria for interpretingChinese Serial Verb Constructions.Communications of COLIPS 8(1) ,pp.13-29.Kim D.I., Cui Z, Li J.J. and Lee J.H.
(2002).Resolving Structural Transfer Ambiguity inChinese-to Korean Machine Translation.
2002International Conference on Chinese LanguageComputing, Taichung, Taiwan.Li C  N. , Thompson S A.
(1981), MandarinChinese: A functional reference grammar.University of California Press, USA.L?
S.
X.
(1953) Yufa Xuexi (The Study of ChineseGrmmar).
Bejing, Zhungguo Qingnian  Press.Mei J.J.(1983) Chinese Thesaurus(Tong-Yi-Ci-Ci-lin).
Shanghai Cishu Press.
1983.Sahni, S.(1998) Data structures, algorithms, andapplications in C++.
Boston McGraw-Hill, USA.Zhou M and Huang C. (1994) Approach to theChinese Dependency Formalism for the Tagging ofCorpus.
Journal of Chinese Information Processing,8/3, pp.
35-52, 1994Zhu D.X.
(1981), Yufa Jiangyi (Lectures on ChineseGrammar),Bejing, Xiangwu Press.Zhu X. F, Yu S. W and Wang H. (1995) TheDevelopment of Contemporary ChineseGrammatical Knowledge Base and its Applications.Communications of COLIPS, 5/1-2
