Conditional Responses in Information-Seeking DialoguesElena Karagjosova and Ivana Kruijff-Korbayova?Computational Linguistics, Saarland University, Saarbru?cken, Germany{elka,korbay}@coli.uni-sb.deAbstractThe paper deals with conditional responses of theform ?Not if c/Yes if c?
in reply to a question ?
?q?in the context of information-seeking dialogues.
Aconditional response is triggered if the obtainabilityof q depends on whether c holds: The response in-dicates a possible need to find alternative solutions,opening a negotiation in the dialogue.
The paperdiscusses the conditions under which conditionalresponses are appropriate, and proposes a uniformapproach to their generation and interpretation.1 IntroductionThe goal of this paper is to provide a basic accountof conditional yes/no responses (CRs): We describethe conditions under which CRs are appropriate, andhow these conditions translate into a uniform ap-proach to understanding and producing CRs.1We focus on information-seeking dialogues be-tween a human user and a dialogue system in thetravel domain.
We allow for mixed initiative and ne-gotiation to let a dialogue be more collaborative than?quizzing?.
In this context CRs arise naturally (1).
(1) U.1: Do I need a visa to enter the U.S.?S.1: Not if you are an EU citizen.
(2) S.1?
: Yes, if you are not an EU citizen.
(1:S.1) is an example of a negative CR, asserting Ifyou?re an EU citizen, then you do not need a visa toenter the U.S. An alternative, positive CR is (2:S.1?
),asserting If you?re not an EU citizen, then you doneed a visa to enter the U.S..In both cases, the system answers the question(1:U.1), but it makes the answer conditional on thevalue of a particular attribute (here, citizenship).1This work was done in SIRIDUS (Specification, Interac-tion and Reconfiguration in Dialogue Understanding Systems),EC Project IST-1999-10516.
We would like to thank Geert-JanKruijff for detailed discussion and comments .Moreover, the CR suggests that, for another value,the answer may be different (2).The CRs in (1:S.1) and (2:S.1?)
are elliptical utter-ances.
Intuitively, they can be expanded to the com-plete propositions in (3) and (3?).
The material forresolving the ellipsis comes from the immediatelypreceding context.
In the approach we work with,ellipsis is resolved with respect to the current ques-tion under discussion (QUD, (Ginzburg, 1996)).
(3) No, you don?t need a visa to enter the U.S. if you are anEU citizen.(3?)
Yes, you do need a visa to enter the U.S. if you are notan EU citizen.The dialogue move of a CR depends on the con-text.
Consider (4) and (5).
Similarly to (1), in (4)the system does not know an attribute-value (A/V)on which the positive or the negative answer to theyes/no question is contingent (here, whether the userwants a business or economy class flight).2(4) U.1: A flight from Ko?ln to Paris on Sunday.S.1: I?m sorry, there are no flights from Ko?ln to Parison Sunday.U.2: Can I fly on Monday?S.2: Not if you want business class.S.2?
: Yes, if you want economy class.
(5) U.1: I want a business class flight from Ko?ln to Parison Sunday.S.1: I?m sorry, there are no business flights from Ko?lnto Paris on Sunday.U.2: Can I fly on Monday?S.2: Not if you want business class.S.2?
: Yes, if you want economy class.The system?s CR (4:S.2) is a request for further in-formation: whether the user wants a business flight(Monday is out), or does not (she is able to fly onMonday).
Likewise, (4:S.2?)
is a request for fur-ther information whether the user wants an economyflight (Monday is available), or not (Monday is out).Dialogue (5) is different.
Now the user indi-cates that she is interested in a business class flight2We realize that intonation might play a role.
However,given space restrictions we cannot address this issue here.Philadelphia, July 2002, pp.
84-87.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Proceedings of the Third SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue,(5:U.1).
The system by default assumes that this re-mains unchanged for another day of travel.What both the negative and positive CR in (5)do is to start a negotiation to either confirm or re-vise the user?s decision for business class.
The sys-tem?s response (5:S.2) or (5:S.2?)
indirectly proposesa change (to economy class) to achieve the higher-level goal of finding a flight from Ko?ln to Paris onMonday.
If the user insists on business class, thisgoal cannot be achieved.If we want a dialogue system to understand andappropriately produce CRs, we need to describetheir semantics in terms of the contextual condi-tions and communicative goals under which theseresponses occur, and the effects they have on the di-alogue context.
We aim at providing the basis ofan account that can be implementated in the GoDiSdialogue system.
GoDis is an experimental sys-tem in the travel domain, using the information-stateapproach to dialogue developed the TRINDI andSIRIDUS projects (Cooper et al, 1999; Lewin et al,2000).
We focus on aspects that can improve its flex-ibility and functionality.Overview.
In ?2 we discuss the uses of positiveand negative CRs in terms of their appropriatenessconditions and their interpretation.
In ?3 we discussdialogue moves.
We end the paper with conclusions.2 Uses of conditional responsesIn this section we present two different types of CRsand discuss in what contexts they are appropriate.CRs can be used as answers to yes/no-questions.3A CR does not provide a yes/no answer simpliciter,though: It provides an answer that is contingent onthe value of some attribute.
Consider (1).
The sys-tem?s reply (1:S.1) provides an answer that is con-tingent on the value of the citizenship attribute.
Ifthe value is (or implies) EU citizenship, the answeris negative: If the user is an EU citizen, she does notneed a visa to enter the U.S.The CR in (1) also seems to suggest the contra-positive that if the value is ?non-EU-citizen?, theanswer is positive.
(2) illustrates the opposite case.We consider this additional suggestion an implica-ture.
The assertions and implicatures that arise from3Corpora show also occurrences of CRs in response to state-ments, cf.
(Karagjosova and Kruijff-Korbayova?, 2002).CRs are summarized in Figure 1.Green & Carberry (1999) characterize CRs interms of the speaker?s motivation to provide infor-mation ?about conditions that could affect the ve-racity of the response?.
However, they only considercases like (4) in which the A/V on which the CR iscontingent has not yet been determined in the pre-ceding context (or cannot be assumed).
Cases like(5) where the A/V has been determined are left un-noticed.4 We discuss each of the cases below.Not-determined A/V.
The A/V on which a CR iscontingent can be one that has not yet been deter-mined in the preceding context, as in (1) and (4).We call this type of CR a non-determined A/V CR(NDCR).
Besides the assertion and the implicaturethat answer the yes/no question as specified in Fig-ure 1, the NDCR amounts to indirectly giving rise tothe question ?whether c holds?.Consider the user?s utterances in (6) as continu-ations of (1).
They show that the implicitly raisedquestion cannot be answered just by ?yes?
or ?no?.Rather, it requires some content that matches with c.(6) U.2: Yes.
| No.U.2?
: Yes, I am.
| No, I am not.U.2??
: Yes, I have German citizenship.
|No, I have Czech citizenship.The responses in (6:U.2) could be interpreted asacknowledgments, but certainly not as answers towhether the user is an EU citizen.
This is corrobo-rated by the following continuation of (6:U2?)
wherethe system does answer the pending question.
(7) S.2: Then you do (not).S.2?
: Then you do (not) need a visa.
(7:S.2) is elliptical for (7:S.2?).
Correct resolution ofthe ellipsis is possible only if the question whetherthe user needs a visa is the topmost QUD.The need to answer the implicitly raised ques-tion depends on what goals the participants try toachieve.
?Do I need a visa??
in (1) is satisfactorilyanswered with either a yes or a no, or when enoughinformation is provided so the asker can find out theanswer herself.
On the other hand, consider (8).
(8) U.1 Can I fly to Paris tomorrow?S.1 Not if you want to fly economy class.4Both cases are attested in corpora (Karagjosova andKruijff-Korbayova?, 2002).Y/N-Question ?q ?qResponse Not if c Yes if cAssertion If c, not-q If c, then qImplicature Possibly, if not-c, then q Possibly, if not-c, then not-qFigure 1: Patterns of conditional responsesIn (8) the response is contingent on whether theuser wants to fly economy class.
Before flight se-lection can proceed further, the question whetherc holds must be answered.
In order to satisfy itsgoal of finding a flight which satisfies the user re-quirements, the system does need to know whetherc holds to find out whether q holds.
This is a differ-ence between (8) and (1).
In (1), the system?s goalis merely to answer the user?s question.To summarize, the interpretation of a CR in re-sponse to a question whether q in a context where chas not been established is that (i) it is still not de-termined whether q, because (ii) the answer (speci-fied in Figure 1) is contingent on c, and thus (iii) thequestion whether c holds is implicitly raised.As for production, it is appropriate for the systemto produce a NDCR when (i) answering a yes/no-question whether q, where (ii) the answer is either qor not-q, depending on some additional A/V c whichhas not yet been established in the context.
We con-jecture that whether a positive or a negative CR ismore cooperative in a particular context depends onwhat the preferred answer to the question ?whetherq?
is assumed to be.Contextually-determined A/V.
Another context inwhich a CR is appropriate is when an answer to ayes/no-question is contingent on an A/V that hasalready been established in the preceding context,as in (5).
We call this type of CR a contextually-determined A/V CR (CDCR).What does a CDCR communicate besides the as-sertion and implicature that answer the question asspecified in Figure 1?
We suggested in ?1 that itinitiates a negotiation about the already establishedA/V.
However, this cannot happen by simply rais-ing the question whether c holds, because c has al-ready been established.
We suggest that a CDCRimplicitly proposes to consider changing the A/V: Itre-raises the question whether c holds.
Re-raisingc differs from raising a ?new?
question at least intwo aspects: c must be negotiable, and re-raisingc means it cannot be answered simply by provid-ing a sufficiently discriminative positive or negativeresponse.
To see the difference, consider (5) with(5:S.2) continued by the following utterances.
(9) U.3: Yes.
| No.U.3?
: Yes, I do.
| No, I don?t.U.3??
: Yes, I want business class.
|No, I don?t want business class.
(10) U.3: OK, I can fly economy.U.3?
: But I do want business class.
(11) U.3: How about Tuesday?Like the responses in (6), the response in (9:U.3)cannot be interpreted as answers to whether the userwants to change her mind from business to economyclass.
It seems hard to interpret even as acknowledg-ment.
But then we observe a number of differencesfrom the NDCR in (6):The responses in (9:U.3?)
and (9:U.3??)
are not ap-propriate as answers to the implicitly re-raised c, be-cause a revision of an A/V is involved.
Hence, somekind of acknowledgment of the revision is needed inaddition to answering whether or not the A/V is tobe revised (and how).
Such acknowledgments arepresent in (10).
In (10:U.3), ?OK?
can be seen as ac-knowledging the revision from business to economyclass.
In (10:U.3?
), ?but?
acknowledges the contrastbetween the proposed revision and the actual preser-vation of the A/V (here, business class).
The con-tinuation in (11), on the other hand, refuses the pro-posed revision only implicitly by proposing insteadto check the flight possibilities on another day.Another observation concerning a CDCR is thatit cannot immediately follow after an utterance inwhich the value is established, as the inappropriate-ness of (12:S.1) and (12:S.1?)
shows.
(12) U.1: Can I fly business class from Ko?ln to Paris onSunday?S.1: Not if you want business class.S.1?
: Yes if you want economy class.Intuitively, the reason for this is that there needsto be some degree of uncertainty (in the sense ofbeing assumed but not known to be shared) aboutthe A/V.
For example, in (5), the business class re-quirement is assumed to be maintained when the dayis revised.
The inappropriateness of (12:S.1) and(12:S.1?)
can also be explained on purely semanticgrounds.
When both the assertion and the implica-ture as specified in Figure 1 are taken into account,a contradiction arises: Given that the elliptical an-swer is resolved to the previous utterance, (12:S.1)asserts If user wants business class, then a businessflight from SB to Paris on Sunday is not available,and implicates If user does not want business class,then a business flight from SB to Paris on Sunday isavailable.
Similarly for (12:S.1?
).Thus, the interpretation of a CDCR is that (i) it isnow determined whether q or not-q holds, because(ii) the answer (specified in Figure 1) is contingenton c and c is established.
Also, (iii) the CDCR in-dicates the reason for the answer, and (iv) proposesto reconsider the earlier made decision by implicitlyre-raising the question whether c holds, and (v) mak-ing a suggestion for it to be revised.
A negotiation isstarted in which the conflicting A/V is either revisedor confirmed.
In the latter case a different solutionto the overall goal must be sought.As for production, the system may producea CDCR when (i) answering a yes/no-questionwhether q, where (ii) the answer is either q or not-q, depending on some A/V c which has been estab-lished in the context prior to the question whether q.Again, what polarity of CR is more cooperative ina particular context depends on what the preferredanswer to the question whether q is assumed to be.3 Conditional response dialogue movesAccording to the dialogue annotation scheme of(Allen and Core, 1997), utterances in which ?theparticipant does not address the proposal but per-forms an act that leaves the decision open pendingfurther discussion?
are called hold moves.
The di-alogue moves of a NDCR seem similar to hold inthat the answer to q remains pending due to its con-tingency on an unknown A/V c. Once c is deter-mined, q is answered.
Hence, we propose to char-acterize a NDCR as a dialogue move combiningthe backward-looking function of a partial yes/no-answer and hold, and the forward-looking functionof a yes/no question whether the condition holds.
ACDCR is different in that it proposes to reconsider acontexually-determined c. Allen & Core provide nosuitable characterization of this.
We propose to char-acterize a CDCR as a dialogue move that combinesthe backward-looking function of a yes/no-answerwith the forward-looking function of an alternativequestion whether c is preserved or revised.4 ConclusionsWe proposed an approach to dealing with condi-tional responses (CRs), which arise naturally in dia-logues allowing for mixed initiative and negotiation.We proposed two types of CRs.
One type describesthe case where the answer is contingent on an at-tribute/value that has not yet been determined in thecontext (NDCRs).
The other type deals with an at-tribute/value that has already been set in the context,and which now needs to reconsidered (CDCRs).
Thedistinction properly clarifies the different effects ondialogue context CRs may have.
We are currentlydeveloping an implementation of CRs in the GoDiSsystem (Kruijff-Korbayova?
et al, 2002).ReferencesJames Allen and Mark Core.
1997.
Draft ofdamsl: Dialogue Act Markup in Several Layers.http://www.cs.rochester.edu/research/cisd/resources/damsl.Robin Cooper, Staffan Larsson, Colin Matheson, Massimo Poe-sio, and David Traum.
1999.
Coding Instructional Dialoguefor Information States.
http://www.ling.gu.se/projekt/trindi/,February.Jonathan Ginzburg.
1996.
Interrogatives: Questions, Facts andDialogue.
In Shalom Lappin, editor, The Handbook of Con-temporary Semantic Theory, pages 385?422.
Blackwell, Ox-ford, UK/Cambridge, USA.Nancy Green and Sandra Carberry.
1999.
A ComputationalMechanism for Initiative in Answer Generation.
User Mod-eling and User-Adapted Interaction, 9(1/2):93?132.Elena Karagjosova and Ivana Kruijff-Korbayova?.
2002.
AnAnalysis of Conditional Responses in Dialogue.
In Proceed-ings of the 5th International Conference on TEXT, SPEECHand DIALOGUE, Brno, Czech Republic.
forthcoming.Ivana Kruijff-Korbayova?, Elena Karagjosova, and Staffan Lars-son.
2002.
Enhancing collaboration with conditional re-sponses in information seeking dialogues.
Under review.Ian Lewin, C.J.Rupp, Jim Hieronymus, David Milward,Staffan Larsson, and Alexander Berman.
2000.
SiridusSystem Architecture and Interface Report (Baseline).http://www.ling.gu.se/projekt/siridus/.
