WHY NLP SHOULD MOVE INTO IASVictor RASKINCERIAS and NLP Lab, Purdue University1356 Heavilon Hall 324W.
Lafayette, IN 47907-1356 USAvraskin@purdue.eduSergei NIRENBURGCRL, New Mexico State University286 New Science BuildingLas Cruces, NM 88003 USAsergei@crl.nmsu.eduMikhail J. ATALLAHCERIAS and Departmentof Computer SciencePurdue University1315 Recitation Hall 215W.
Lafayette, IN 47907-1315 USAmja@cs.purdue.eduChristian F.HEMPELMANNCERIAS and NLP Lab,Purdue University1356 Heavilon Hall 324W.
Lafayette, IN 47907-1356 USAhempelma@purdue.eduKatrina E.TRIEZENBERGCERIAS and NLP Lab,Purdue University1356 Heavilon Hall 324W.
Lafayette, IN 47907-1356 USAkattriez@purdue.eduAbstractThe paper introduces the ways in whichmethods and resources of natural languageprocessing (NLP) can be fruitfully employedin the domain of information assurance andsecurity (IAS).
IAS may soon claim a veryprominent status both conceptually and interms of future funding for NLP, alongsideor even instead of established applications,such as machine translation (MT).
After abrief summary of theoretical premises ofNLP in general and of ontological semanticsas a specific approach to NLP developedand/or practiced by the authors, the paperreports on the interaction between NLP andIAS through brief discussions of someimplemented and planned NLP-enhancedIAS systems at the Center for Education andResearch in Information Assurance andSecurity (CERIAS).
The rest of the paperdeals with the milestones and challenges inthe future interaction between NLP and IASas well as the role of a representational,meaning-based NLP approach in that future.1 IntroductionWith new applications, NLP sees newchallenges and has to develop additionalfunctionalities.
For a few decades, it was drivenpredominantly, if not exclusively, by MT.
Thisapplication, while emphasizing certainfunctionalities, has a limited use for a reasoningfunctionality.
Increasingly, the currentapplications, such as data mining and questionanswering bring reasoning to the front of NLP.Applications come, for the most part, from reallife, and in real life, computer systems keepgetting attacked by hackers and industrial orpolitical adversaries and need to be protectedwith the help of automatic systems.
Informationsecurity provides this protection by preventingunauthorized use and detecting intrusions.Information assurance guarantees theauthenticity of transmitted and storedinformation.
In the last five years, since theinception of CERIAS with the help of a massivegrant from the Eli Lilly Foundation, two of theco-authors have led a pioneering effort inexploring the possibility of applying themethods and resources of NLP to IAS.
Anotherco-author has led a decade-long effort indeveloping the resources of ontologicalsemantics and testing them in variousimplementations of NLP applications.
Thispaper is the result of all these efforts as well asof the excellent work of the participating andactively contributing graduate andundergraduate research assistants.2 Basic PremisesNirenburg and Raskin (2002) views NLP as anapplication of both linguistics and cognitivescience.
This application is a theory of itself,which defines the format of its descriptions, e.g.,meaning representations for texts (TMRs).
Thetheory is associated with methodologies toproduce these descriptions.
Applications tend todictate the content of the descriptions they needin order to be successfully implemented andthus, to a large extent, the methodology ofimplementation, which is, thus, arrived atsystematically and not by just trial and error andguesswork, as Chomskian linguistics wouldhave us believe.In general, one of the choices in NLP is themethod-driven vs. the problem-driven approach.The former espouses the use of a particularmethod in as many applications as possible.
Thedanger here is that both the applications and thelevel of results that is declared satisfactory aremolded to what is allowed by the method: ?To ahammer, everything looks like a nail.
?Problem-oriented NLP chains back from theneeds of an application and happily acceptseclectic or pipelined approaches if thisarrangement promises better results.We approach IAS from the problem-orientedpoint of view.
It is a growing family ofapplications that society needs to protect itscomputer systems and databases fromunauthorized use and destructive attacks.
It isthe goal of NLP to serve the existing IAS needsas well as helping the IAS community todiscover new ways to adapt the existing NLPresources and to order the development of newresources.3 NLP Applications to IAS3.1 IAS NeedsMost generally, IAS develops software to:?
encrypt  and decrypt data;?
preclude unauthorized use ofcomputer systems and data with a vastarray of protective measures;?
detect  intrusion, including virusrecognition and anti-virus protection.Much of IAS deals with signals and informationother than texts in natural language (NL) butthere are enough applications for textual data,and this is where the methods and resources ofNLP come into the picture.3.2 NLP/IAS InterfaceCERIAS has taken a leading role ininvestigating how NLP can be utilized for IAS,and the initial efforts, as early as 1998, weredevoted to identifying the text-based subtasks inIAS.
To date, the following applications havebeen recognized and addressed, in chronologicalorder:?
using machine translation for anadditional layer of encryption;?
generating mnemonics for random-generated passwords;?
declassification or downgrading ofclassified information;?
NL watermarking;?
preventing theft of intellectualproperty;?
forensic IAS, specifically, tracingleaks in divulging protectedinformation;?
tamperproofing textual data;?
enhancing the acceptance of IASproducts by the users with the help ofcomputational humor.In the rest of the section, we will characterizethese tasks briefly, with an emphasis on the NLPcontribution to their solution, a contributionwhich is largely constitutive in nature in thesense that they would probably not exist if NLPcould not offer the know-how to implementthem.3.2.1 MT for EncryptionInspired by the most obvious connectionbetween encryption and NL, the largelyapocryphal World War II episode, when insteadof an elaborate code, the American and BritishGeneral Headquarters in Europe used the nativespeakers of Navajo (Shawnee, in anotherversion, involving the Pacific theater) tocommunicate in open, uncoded language andwere never ?decoded,?
the idea was to use afamily of existing or rapidly deployable MTsystems (see Nirenburg and Raskin 1998) to adda level of encryption in an ?exotic?
language.Raskin et al?Page 2Once proposed (Raskin et al 2001), the ideafailed to catch and has never been implemented,partially because there was no researchchallenge in that, but also because it wouldinvolve the ?security by obscurity?
principledisdained by IAS: one should assume that theadversary is at least as smart and knowledgeableas we, the good guys, are.
Also, an MT system,even if publicly available, is too long and messya ?key,?
another IAS no-no.3.2.2 Mnemonics for Random-GeneratedPasswordsPasswords are sometimes dismissed in IAS astoo weak and ineffective a protection measure.Reality is, however, that for an absolute majorityof computer users, this remains the onlyprotection against unauthorized use and abuseand the loss of data, and the users weaken itconsiderably by changing the passwordsrandomly generated for them by the computer atthe time the accounts are created to somethingthat is easy for them to remember.
The weaknessof such passwords is that they can be vulnerableto a brute-force attack because the space ofpossible passwords to be tried by the attackerbecomes much smaller than that for random-generated ones.
Here and elsewhere, IASmeasures hardly ever exclude the possibility of asuccessful attack (e.g., using a random generatorto try every possible alphanumeric combinationto access the account) but rather ?raising theante?
for the adversary, making the attackcostlier and more complicated.We implemented Versions 1 and 2 of theautomatic mnemonic text (jingle) generator(AMTG).
Both versions take a randomlygenerated alphanumeric password as input andgenerate a funny and memorable two-line text(jingle).
AMTG-1 implemented after the first 6months of research limited the input to 8-letter(no digits) case-insensitive passwords andgenerated a rigidly formatted, uniform-meter,single-tune jingles, whose funniness dependedon the verb antonymy between the first andsecond lines (here and throughout this section,see Raskin et al 2001 for examples and furtherdiscussion).
AMTG-2 removes the rigidlimitation on the password format and accepts 3-8-symbol alphanumeric, case-sensitive inputwhile generating two lines of purported politicalsatire (see McDonough 2000).
The proof-of-concept software was implemented byMcDonough and is in preparation for patenting.3.2.3 Natural Language DowngradingIncreasingly, in interagency exchanges in thegovernment, international coalitioncommunication, and exchanges among businesspartners, there has been a need to develop anintricate architecture for combining a ?high?network and a ?low?
network.
Authorized users,with access to the high network, where sensitivedata is stored and exchanged, must have accessto the low network, but not the other wayaround.
If this is all there is to it, thecommunication between the two networks isassured with the help of a variety of switchesand one-way filters: the low-networkinformation can propagate up but the high-network information must not leak down.
Thereare enough technical and conceptual problemswith such one-way filters, but they aremultiplied manifold if there is also a need toshare some high-network information with thelow-network users in a way that removes all thesensitive data.
In this context the essentiallysemantic ability to recognize a sensitive messagecomes into play.
We are focusing only onsanitizing textual information.
In other words,for each classified text T there must be generateda sanitized, downgraded text T?, from which allsensitive data are removed according to a certainlist of criteria.
We are doing this by utilizing theNLP resources developed by the ontological-semantic approach (Nirenburg and Raskin2002), which allows deep-meaning penetrationand, as a result, much enhanced sensitiveinformation detection and removal (seeMohamed 2001) than that allowed by anykeyword-based approach, straightforward orstatistical.3.2.4 Intellectual Property ProtectionEssentially the same methods of detection andseamless replacement developed fordowngrading can be used to intercept andprevent deliberate or inadvertent divulging ofproprietary and/or classified information.
This ismuch easier to do offline, of course, but there isalso an increasing need in inconspicuousRaskin et al?Page 3interception and sanitizing of e-mail online.Here, somewhat less than in straightforwarddowngrading, which can all be done offline, ahalf-way solution may be best: instead of lettingthe system detect the sensitive information andreplace it, all fully automatically, a simpler andcoarser-grain-sized system can only flagpossible violations to a human, who makes thefinal determination.3.2.5 Natural Language WatermarkingWe have developed software capable ofembedding a hidden textual watermark in atextual message without changing the meaningof the text at all and the wording only slightly ifnecessary.
Let T be a NL text, and let W be astring that is much shorter than T. We wish togenerate NL text T?
such that:  T?
has essentiallythe same meaning as T; T' contains W as a secretwatermark, and the presence of W would hold upin court if revealed (e.g., W could say, ?This isthe Property of X, and was licensed to Y on dateZ?
); the watermark W is not readable from T'without knowledge of the secret key that wasused to introduce W; for someone who knowsthe secret key, W can be obtained from T'without knowledge of T (so there is no need topermanently store the original, non-watermarkedcopy of copyrighted material);  unless someoneknows the secret key, W is difficult to removefrom T' without drastically changing themeaning of T'; the process by which W isintroduced into T to obtain T' is not secret,rather, it is the secret key that gives the schemeits security.
We developed a technique (Atallahet al 2001, 2002) which embeds portions of W?sbitstring in the underlying syntactic andsemantic (TMR) structures, respectively, of aselection of sentences in a text by manipulatingthose sentences slightly with the help ofmeaning-preserving syntactic and semanticinformation.
The semantic technique is muchmore complex and allows for a much widerbandwidth, i.e., the use of much fewerwatermark bearing sentences, thus making thelater technique usable for such short sentences aswire agency releases.
It also furthers thatadvantage by making it unnecessary to doublethe number of engaged and manipulatedsentences and disposing of the marker-bearingsentences that precede each watermark-bearingsentence in the earlier, syntactic approach.3.2.6 Tracing the LeaksBy embedding different, personalizedwatermarks in different copies of the samedocument, we can trace a leak to a particularrecipient of classified or proprietary information.Thus, the watermark may state something like,?Copy #47 issued to Jane Smith.?
An additionalresearch problem that needs to be addressed insuch a system is the adversary collusion: thewatermark should be such that the comparisonof two differently watermarked copies of thesame document not lead to the discovery andremoval of the watermarks.3.2.7 Tamperproofing as Extensions ofWatermarkingThe watermarking technique can be interestinglyreversed from the search for the most robust,indestructible watermark to that for the mostbrittle one, so that any tampering with adocument would invariably lead to the removalof the watermark (see Atallah, Raskin et al2002) and thus signal the tampering.
The initialresearch in this area demonstrates, interestinglyand not quite unexpectedly, that designing themost brittle watermark is as challenging asdesigning the most robust and resilient one.3.2.8.
Enhancing Customer Acceptance of IASProducts with Computational Humor.One of the biggest issues in IAS has been therefusal to deploy the acquired IAS productsbecause of the reluctance to learn, install, anddebug the developed systems.
One approach toresolving this very real problem is to reward thesystem administrators (sysadmins) for makingthe effort by entertaining them throughout theprocess of installing and maintaining the productwith the help of humor-generating intelligentembodied agents (see Nijholt 2002, Stock andStrapparava 2002).
The current state of the art incomputational humor is rapidly making itincreasingly feasible.
The idea does have ashock value to it, both for the better and for theworse: some hard-core techies in IAS, and, as amatter of fact, in NLP, think that computationalhumor is a hoax.
Usually, a little homeworkRaskin et al?Page 4changes this attitude (see Raskin 1996, 2002;Raskin and Attardo 1994).4 Perspectives, Challenges, MilestonesNLP deals with texts in NL, and in Section 3.2.1above, we clearly stated that the applicability ofNLP to IAS depends on the use of textual data inIAS systems.
This statement was, actually, aconsiderable simplification.For lower end, non-semantic NLP methods,those dependent on Boolean keywords, syntax,and/or statistics, the presence of textual data isindeed essential.
For ontological semantics,which is a system of text meaningrepresentation, the ?text?
itself may be in anynon-natural-language format, including anyscientific or logical formalism, as long as it hasconceptual content.
That content is directlyrepresentable with the help of the ontology,bypassing any NL lexicon if necessary.
In otherwords, the ontology is equally applicable to aformal language as it is to a NL if a lexicon forthe former is accessible.Nevertheless, what applications of ontologicalsemantics can contribute most obviously and  ona broader scale, is extending research andapplication paradigms in IAS by including NLdata sources and adapting the appropriate NLPapplications, their goals and results to them.These include:?
inclusion of NL data sources as anintegral part of the overall datasources in information securityapplications, and?
formal specification of theinformation security communityknow-how for the support of routineand time-efficient measures to preventand counteract computer attacksWhere does NL data play a role in IAS?
Theapplications listed in Section 3.2 provide theobvious examples.
In addition, systemadministrator (sysadmin) logs, the standardobject of data-mining efforts in IAS with thepurpose of intrusion detection, are written in asublanguage of a NL and can be allowed tocontain more complex language if theprocessing systems are capable of treating it;however, all the pre-NLP studies ignore the NLclues in the logs and thus miss out on a greatdeal of important content.
Similarly, to useanother example, if an InfoSec task involveshuman alongside software agents, NLP is themost efficient way of handling interagentcommunication (see Nirenburg and Raskin2002, Ch.
1, and references there).In the past, all the above tasks, if at allattempted, were supported by either keyword-based search technology or through stochasticmechanisms of matching and determination ofdifferences between two documents.
Theseapproaches have approached the ceiling of theircapabilities.An ontology provides a new, content-oriented,knowledge- and meaning-based approach toform the basis of the NLP component of theinformation security research paradigm.
Thedifference between this knowledge-basedapproach and the old ?expert system?
approachis that the former concentrates on feasibility, forexample, by using a gradual automationapproach to various application tasks.
Theontological approach also deals, albeit at a muchmore sophisticated level, with encoding andusing the community know-how for automatictraining and decision support systems.
Thecumulative knowledge of the informationsecurity community about the classification ofthreats, their prevention and about defenseagainst computer attacks should be formalized,and this knowledge must be brought to bear indeveloping an industry-wide, constantlyupgradeable manual for computer securitypersonnel that may involve a number of deliveryvehicles, including an online question-answerenvironment and a knowledge-based decisionsupport system with dynamic replanningcapabilities for use by computer securitypersonnel.
The underlying knowledge for bothof these avenues of information securityparadigm extension can, as it happens, beformulated in a single standard format.
Theknowledge content will readily enjoy dual use inboth NL data inclusion and decision support,and it is made possible through the use ofontologies.
Fig.
1 below shows a generic schemeof interaction of the ontological resourcesapplied to a conceptual domain, such asRaskin et al?Page 5information security.
The language-independentsingle ontology defines the content of mostlexical entries in the lexicon and in theonomasticon (proper noun lexicon) of each NL.The fact database contains all the rememberedevent instances, and text meaningrepresentations (TMR) are automaticallygenerated for each text by the analyzer part ofthe processing system.
The output, whether inNL or any other knowledge representationsystem, is produced by the generator from theTMRs.
Some other static and dynamic resourcesare left out of the figure for simplification.Figure 1.
Application of the OntologicalParadigm to a Domain (e.g., IAS)The attraction of using ontology, a conceptualstructure for a domain of inquiry, is penetratingthe IAS community only slightly more slowlythan other disciplines.
Since Raskin et al 2001and, especially, Raskin et al 2002, the prospectof having a tangled hierarchy, or a lattice,bringing together all the main concepts in IAS,with a convenient public Web interface hasfound considerable support.
The most practicalinterest has so far been along the lines ofstandardizing the IAS terminology.
Research-wise, this is not the most challenging ontology-related issue among the ones listed above but, asmany IAS gatherings amply demonstrate,different terminological dialects confuse andslow down many professional discussions.
Muchmore practically and damagingly, the non-standard use of terms makes rapid responses toinfections by CERT much more difficultbecause additional exchanges with the authors ofreports are necessary to establish what isactually being reported.Ontological semantics can develop as manyuseful tools to support the common languageproject, the standardization initiative in the IAScommunity (see Howard and Meunier 2002),with Web-interfaced, public-access ontological-semantic tools, as the implemented resourcesand their enhancements in this project will allow(e.g., dictionaries, both standard and dialectal;terminological ambiguity checker and corrector;mini-machine-translator from non-standard tostandard usage).Starting with such more or less obviousoverlapping points, NLP can be used to enhanceand enrich the IAS agenda by making many lessobvious applications work in the domain.
At thesame time, the ever-changing and increasinglycomplex real-life and contentful needs of IASwill place demands on NLP, stimulating andguiding its development.
We believe thatcontent-, not formalism-oriented NLPapproaches, such as ontological semantics,rather than non-meaning-based and/or non-representational approaches will be of most useto IAS.
As in most fields populated by peopletrained in formalisms (and that includes bothNLP and theoretical linguistics), there is atemptation to engage in a battle of formalisms toachieve maximum elegance, regardless of theformalized content?and, to add insult to injury,to be blissfully unaware of being not content-oriented.
In linguistics, the practical task thatused to provide a check against pure formalism-based approaches, the need to describe naturallanguages, has largely disappeared from theagenda.
In NLP, there is more incentive to payattention to content in contemporaryapplications, such as intelligent searches orquestion answering, than there was in MT, sothe balance is changing in favor of content.
InIAS, the practical task of preventing andcountermanding hostile actions is fullydependent on understanding the content andgoals of the actions, so the representation ofmeaning is a sine qua non of success, and thismakes ontological semantics well suited for IASapplications.
An ontological semanticist has theresponsibility of identifying and sometimesdiscovering an IAS application of NLPRaskin et al?Page 6resources and of convincing the IAS communityof the validity and importance of the application.5 ConclusionMore and more interesting applications of NLPto IAS are being discovered, and the partial listabove will be obsolete by the time this paper ispresented.
It is clear, therefore, that IAS is animportant, enduring, and extremely well-fundedfield, whose needs NLP has every interest toserve and which will, therefore, determine, to animportant extent, the development of NLP in thefuture.
NLP, go for IAS!AcknowledgmentsThe authors are grateful to CERIAS, with itspioneering multidisciplinary environment, and,especially, to its director, Eugene H. ?Spaf?Spafford, for his vision in continuing toencourage and to support  their workReferencesAtallah, M., Raskin, V., Crogan, M., Hempelmann,C., Kerschbaum, F., Mohamed, D., and Naik, S.(2001).
Natural language watermarking: Design,analysis, and a proof-of-concept implementation.In I. S. Moskowitz (ed.
), ?Information Hiding: 4thInternational Workshop, IH 2001, Pittsburgh, PA,USA, April 2001 Proceedings?, I. S.
Moskowitz,ed., Springer-Verlag, Berlin, pp.
185-199.Atallah, M., Raskin, V., Hempelmann, C., Karahan,M., Sion, R., Topkara, U., and Triezenberg, K. E.(2002).
Natural language watermarking andtamperproofing.
Submitted to ih2002: InformationHiding Workshop 2002.Howard, J. D., and Meunier, P. C. (2002).
Using a?common language?
for computer securityincident information.
In ?Computer SecurityHandbook, 4th ed.
?, M. Kabay and S.
Bosworth,eds.,  New York: Wiley.McDonough, C. J.
(2000).
Complex Events in anOntological-Semantic Natural LanguageProcessing System.
An unpublished Ph.D. thesis,Purdue University, W. Lafayette, IN.Mohamed, D. (2001).
Ontological SemanticsMethods for Automatic Downgrading.
Anunpublished M. A. thesis, Purdue University, W.Lafayette, IN.Nijholt, A.
(2002).
Embodied agents: A new impetusto humor research.
In: Stock et al, pp.
101-111.Nirenburg, S., and Raskin, V. (1998).
Universalgrammar and lexis for quick ramp-up of MTsystems.
In ?Proceedings of ACL/COLING ?98.Vol.
2?, Montreal: University of Montreal, pp.975-979Nirenburg, S., and Raskin, V. (2002).
OntologicalSemantics.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press(forthcoming).Raskin, V. (1996).
Computer implementation of thegeneral theory of verbal humor.
In: ?AutomaticInterpretation and Generation of Verbal Humor.International Workshop on ComputationalHumor, IWCH ?96.
Twente Workshop onLanguage Technology, TWLT 12?, J. Hulstijn andA.
Nijholt, eds., Enschede, NL: University ofTwente, pp.
9-19.Raskin, V. (2002).
Quo vadis computational humor.In: Stock et al 2002, pp.
31-46.Raskin, V., Atallah, M. J., McDonough, C. J., andNirenburg, S. (2001).
Natural languageprocessing for information assurance andsecurity: An overview and implementations.
In?NSPW '00: Proceedings of  Workshop on NewParadigms in Information Security, Cork, Ireland,September 2000?, M. Shaeffer, ed., New York:ACM Press, pp.
51-65.Raskin, V., and Attardo, S. (1994).
Non-literalnessand non-bona-fide in Language: An approach toformal and computational treatments of humor.Pragmatics and Cognition 2/1, pp.
31-69.Raskin, V., Hempelmann, C. F., Triezenberg, K. E.,and Nirenburg, S. (2002).
Ontology in informationsecurity: A useful theoretical foundation andmethodological tool.
In ?Proceedings.
NewSecurity Paradigms Workshop 2001.
September10th-13th, Cloudcroft, NM, USA?, V Raskin andC.
F. Hempelmann, eds., New York: ACM Press,pp.
53-59.Stock, O., Strapparava, C., and Nijholt A., eds.
(2002), Proceedings of The April Fools' DayWorkshop on Computational Humour April 2002,Twente Workshop on Language Technology-TWLT 20, An Initiative of HAHAcronym,European Project IST-2000-30039, Trento, Italy:ITC-irst.Stock, O., and Strapparava, C. (2002).
Humorousagent for humorous acronyms: The HAHAcronymProject.
In: Stock et al 2002, pp.
125-135.Raskin et al?Page 7
