Lexically-Based Terminology Structuring: Some Inherent LimitsNatalia Grabar and Pierre ZweigenbaumSTIM/DSI, Assistance Publique ?
H?pitaux de Paris& D?partement de Biomath?matiques, Universit?
Paris 6{ngr,pz}@biomath.jussieu.frhttp://www.biomath.jussieu.fr/?
{ngr,pz}AbstractTerminology structuring has been the subject ofmuch work in the context of terms extracted fromcorpora: given a set of terms, obtained from an ex-isting resource or extracted from a corpus, identi-fying hierarchical (or other types of) relations be-tween these terms.
The present paper focusses onterminology structuring by lexical methods, whichmatch terms on the basis on their content words,taking morphological variants into account.
Exper-iments are done on a ?flat?
list of terms obtainedfrom an originally hierarchically-structured termi-nology: the French version of the US NationalLibrary of Medicine MeSH thesaurus.
We com-pare the lexically-induced relations with the originalMeSH relations: after a quantitative evaluation oftheir congruence through recall and precision met-rics, we perform a qualitative, human analysis of the?new?
relations not present in the MeSH.
This anal-ysis shows, on the one hand, the limits of the lex-ical structuring method.
On the other hand, it alsoreveals some specific structuring choices and nam-ing conventions made by the MeSH designers, andemphasizes ontological commitments that cannot beleft to automatic structuring.1 BackgroundTerminology structuring, i.e., organizing a set ofterms through semantic relations, is one of the dif-ficult issues that have to be addressed when build-ing terminological resources.
These relations in-clude subsumption or hyperonymy (the is-a re-lation), meronymy (part-of and its variants), aswell as other, diverse relations, sometimes called?transversal?
(e.g., cause, or the general see also).Various methods have been proposedto discover relations between terms (seeJacquemin and Bourigault (2002) for a review).We divide them into internal and external meth-ods, in the same way as McDonald (1993)for proper names.
Internal methods lookat the constituency of terms, and compareterms based on the words they contain.
Termmatching can rely directly on raw word forms(Bodenreider et al, 2001), on morphologicalvariants (Jacquemin and Tzoukermann, 1999),on syntactic structure (Bourigault, 1994;Jacquemin and Tzoukermann, 1999) or on se-mantic variants (synonyms, hyperonyms, etc.
)(Hamon et al, 1998).
External methods takeadvantage of the context in which terms occur:they examine the behavior of terms in corpora.Distributional methods group terms that occurin similar contexts (Grefenstette, 1994).
Thedetection of appropriate syntactic patterns ofcooccurrence is another method to uncover re-lations between terms in corpora (Hearst, 1992;S?gu?la and Aussenac, 1999).In previous work we applied lexical methods toidentify relations between terms on the basis ontheir content words, taking morphological variantsinto account.
Our goal was then to assess the feasi-bility of such structuring by studying it on an exist-ing, hierarchically structured terminology.
Ignoringthis existing structure and starting from the set of itsterms, we attempt to discover hierarchical term-to-term links and compare them with the preexistingrelations.Our goal in the present paper is to analyze ?new?relations.
?New?
means that these induced relationsare not present in the original hierarchical structureof the MeSH thesaurus; they might nevertheless re-flect useful links.
Performing this analysis allows usto propose a more precise evaluation of the methodsand their results and to point out some inherent lim-its.After the exposition of the data we used in ourexperiments (section 2), we present methods (sec-tion 3) for generating hierarchical links betweenterms through the study of lexical inclusion and forevaluating their quality with appropriate recall andprecision metrics.
We then present the analysis ofsome ?new?
induced relations and attempt to pro-pose a typology of term dependency in these rela-tions (section 4).
We finally discuss the limits oflexical methods for the structuring task (section 5).2 The MeSH biomedical thesaurus, andassociated morphological knowledgeWe first present the existing hierarchically struc-tured thesaurus, a ?stop word?
list and morpholog-ical knowledge involved in the present work.2.1 The MeSH biomedical thesaurusThe Medical Subject Headings (MeSH,NLM (2001a)) is one of the main internationalmedical terminologies (see, e.g., Cimino (1996)for a presentation of medical terminologies).
It isa thesaurus specifically designed for informationretrieval in the biomedical domain.
The MeSH isused to index the international biomedical literaturein the Medline bibliographic database.
The Frenchversion of the MeSH (INSERM, 2000) containsa translation of these terms (19,638 terms) plussynonyms.
It happens to be written in unaccented,uppercase letters.
Both the American and FrenchMeSH can be found in the UMLS Metathesaurus(NLM, 2001b), which can be obtained through aconvention with the National Library of Medicine.The concept names (main headings) which theMeSH contains have been designed to reflect theirbroad meanings and to facilitate their use by hu-man indexers and librarians.
In that, they follow atradition in information sciences, and are not nec-essarily the expressions used in naturally occurringbiomedical documents.
The MeSH can be consid-ered as a fine-grained thesaurus: concepts are cho-sen to insure a good coverage of the biomedical do-main (Zweigenbaum, 1999).As many other medical terminologies, the MeSHhas a hierarchical structure: ?narrower?
concepts(children) are related to ?broader?
concepts (par-ents).
This both covers the usual is-a relation andpartitive relations (part-of, conceptual-part-of andprocess-of ).
The MeSH also includes see-also re-lations, which we do not take into account in thepresent experiments.
This structure has also beendesigned in the aim to be intellectually accessi-ble to users: an indexer must be able to assign agiven concept to an article and a clinician must beable to find a given concept in the tree hierarchy(Nelson et al, 2001).
To conclude, the MeSH teamaims to organize it in a clear and intuitive manner,both for concept naming and concept placement.The version of the French MeSH we used in theseexperiments contains 19,638 terms, 26,094 directchild-to-parent links and (under transitive closure)95,815 direct or indirect child-to-ancestor links.2.2 Stop word listThe aim of using a ?stop word?
list is to remove fromterm comparison very frequent words which areconsidered not to be content-bearing, hence ?non-significant?
for terminology structuring.
We usedin this experiment a short stop word list (15 wordforms).
It contains the few frequent grammaticalwords, such as articles and prepositions, that occurin MeSH terms.2.3 Morphological knowledgeThe morphological knowledge involved consists oflemma/derived-word or lemma/inflected form pairswhere the first is the ?normalized?
form and the sec-ond a ?variant?
form.Inflection produces the various forms of a givenword such as plural, feminine or the multiple formsof a verb according to person, tense, etc.
: inter-vention ?
interventions, acid ?
acids.
We per-form the reverse process (lemmatization), reducingan inflected form to its lemma (canonical form).We worked with two alternate lexicons.
The firstone is based on a general French lexicon (ABU,abu.cnam.fr/DICO) which we have augmented withpairs obtained from medical corpora processedthrough a tagger/lemmatizer (in cardiology, hema-tology, intensive care, and drug monographs): it to-tals 219,759 pairs (where the inflected form is dif-ferent from the lemma).
The second lexicon, morespecialized and tuned to the vocabulary in medi-cal terminologies, is the result of applying rules ac-quired in previous work from two other medical ter-minologies (ICD-10 and SNOMED) to the vocab-ulary in the MeSH, ICD-10 and SNOMED (total:2,889 pairs).Derivation produces, e.g., the adjectival form ofa noun (noun aorta   adjective aortic), the nom-inal form of a verb (verb intervene   noun inter-vention), or the adverbial form of an adjective (ad-jective human   adverb humanely).
We performlinguistically-motivated stemming to reduce a de-rived word to its base word.
For derivation, we alsoused resources acquired in previous work which,once combined with inflection pairs, results in 4,517pairs.Compounding, which combines several radicals,often of Greek or Latin origin, to obtain complexwords (e.g., aorta + coronary yields aortocoro-nary), has not been used because we do not havea reliable procedure to segment a compound into itscomponent morphemes.3 Acquiring links through lexicalinclusion of termsThe present work induces hierarchical relations be-tween terms when the constituent words of one termlexically include those of the second term (sec-tion 3.1).
When comparing these relations withthose that preexist in the MeSH, precision can reach29.3% and recall 13.7% (section 3.2).
We focushere on the analysis of the relations that are notfound in the MeSH (section 3.3), which we developin the next section (section 4).3.1 Lexical inclusionThe method we use here for inducing hierarchicalrelations between terms is basically a test of lexicalinclusion: we check whether a term   (parent) is?included?
in another term  (child), i.e., whetherall words in   occur in  .
We assume that this typeof inclusion is a clue of a hierarchical relation be-tween terms, as in acides gras / acides gras indis-pensables (fatty acids / fatty acids, essential).To detect this type of relation, we test whetherall the content words of   occur in  .
We do thison segmented terms with a gradually increasing nor-malization on word forms.
Basic normalizations areperformed first: conversion to lower case, removalof punctuation, of numbers and of ?stop words?.Subsequent normalizations rely on morphologicalressources: lemmatization (with the two alternateinflectional lexicons) and stemming with a deriva-tional lexicon.
Terms are indexed by their words tospeed up the computation of term inclusion over allterm pairs of the whole MeSH thesaurus.3.2 Application to MeSH and quantificationThis structuring method has been applied to the flatlist of 19,638 terms of the MeSH thesaurus.
As ex-pected, the number of links induced between termsincreases when applying inflectional normalizationand again with derivational normalization.We evaluated the quality of the links obtainedwith this approach by comparing them automati-cally with the original structure of the MeSH andcomputing recall and precision metrics.
We sum-marize here the main results; a detailed evaluationcan be found in (Grabar and Zweigenbaum, 2002).Depending on the normalization, up to 29.3% ofthe links found are correct (precision), and up to13.7% of the direct MeSH links are found by lex-ical inclusion (recall).
We also examined whethereach term was correctly placed under one of its an-cestors: this was true for up to 26% of the terms(recall); and the placement advices were correct inup to 58% of the cases (precision).
The recall oflinks increases when applying more complete mor-phological knowledge (inflection then derivation).The evolution of precision is opposite: injection ofmore extensive morphological knowledge (deriva-tion vs inflection) leads to taking more ?chances?
forgenerating links between terms: the precision withno normalization (raw results) is 29.3% vs 22.5%when using all normalizations (lem-stem-med).
De-pending on the type of normalization, the best pre-cision obtained for links is 43%.3.3 Human analysis of ?new?
relationsThe evaluations presented in the previous sectionquantify the match between the induced relationsand existing MeSH relations.
However, they giveno explanation for the fact that 70% of the inducedrelations are not considered relevant by the MeSH.This is what we study in the remainder of this paper:why these terms are not hierarchically related in theMeSH, and what kinds of relations exist betweenthem.According to the position of the words of the?parent?
term in the ?child?
term, we divide theextra-MeSH relations into three sets:  the par-ent concept is at the head position in the child con-cept: absorption/absorption intestinale; 	 the par-ent concept is at the tail (expansion) position in thechild concept: abdomen/tumeur abdomen;  othertypes of positions.
Each set of relations is sam-pled by randomly selecting a 20% subset, both with-out normalization (raw) and with inflectional andderivational normalizations (med-lem-stem).
Ta-ble 1 presents the number of analyzed relations (to-tal = 194).Normalizations Head Expan.
Otherraw 22 31 14lem-stem-med 37 57 33Table 1: Relations to analyze: sample sizes.4 An analysis of new, lexically-inducedrelationsWe first examine the issues encountered when try-ing to identify the head of each term (section 4.1),then review in turn each analyzed subset: head (sec-tion 4.2), expansion (section 4.3) and other relations(section 4.4).4.1 Finding the headIn French, the semantic head of a noun phrase isusually located at the beginning of this phrase (thiscontrasts with English, where the semantic head isgenerally at the end of NPs).
Moreover, as is oftenthe case with terms, MeSH terms do not include de-terminers, so that the semantic head is usually thefirst word here.
We therefore rely on a heuristicfor determining ?head?
and ?expansion?
subsets: thehead is the first word of the term, and the expansionis the last word.
This is correct most of the time, butin some cases, the semantic head is positioned at theend of the term, generally separated with a comma,a tradition sometimes followed in thesauri:filoviridae/filoviridae, infections,leishmania/leishmania tropica, infection,quinones/quinone reductases,neurone/neurone moteur, maladie,syndrome/bouche main pied, syndrome.These cases must be hand-corrected and distributedinto the following classes.We also encountered another kind of error, due tooverzealous derivational knowledge:contracture/contraction musculaire,biologie/testament biologique,where contracture (a muscle disease) and con-traction (normal muscle function) have both beenstemmed to the same base word; the expansion ad-jective biologique is derived from the noun biologie,but its sense is generally more specific than biolo-gie.4.2 ?Head?
subsetLet us first discard a case where it seems that weencountered a translation error.
An examination ofthe structure of the English MeSH and a search onWeb pages show that in the French MeSH, acidelinoleique alpha should read acide linolenique al-pha, which is a kind of acide linolenique (and not akind of acide linoleique).
The induced relation:acide linoleique/acide linoleique alphais therefore incorrect; with the correct spelling, thelexical inclusion:acide linolenique/acide linolenique alphawould reveal a correct hierarchical relation.4.2.1 The head is not the ?genus?
of the termWe encountered cases where the whole term did nothave an is-a relation with the head as defined above.This happens in two types of situations.The first situation is due to syntactic reasons.
Inthe following induced relation,acides amines / acides amines, peptides et pro-teines,the larger term is an enumeration, with the senseof a logical OR.
It is therefore the genus term, ofwhich each of its components (e.g., acides amines)is a sub-type.The second situation is due to semantic reasons.Lexical induction of hierarchical relations assumesinheritance of the defining features of the genusterm (e.g., a fatty acid, essential is a kind of fattyacid).
However, it is well known that this is not al-ways true: a plaster cat is not a cat (i.e., a mammal,etc.).
This is sometimes modeled as a type coercionphenomenon.
We found quite a few ?plaster cats?
inour terms:personnalite/personnalite compulsive,voix/voix oesophagienne.For instance, personnalite here describes ?behavior-response patterns that characterize the individual?,whereas personnalite compulsive (compulsive per-sonality disorder) describes a mental disorder.
Dis-orders (or diseases) are different objects than behav-iors in the MeSH.4.2.2 The head is ambiguousThis depends on the choice of term names in the ter-minology (here, the MeSH).
Terms like absorption,investissement, etc., have specific senses that makethem polysemous.
To determine a precise sense,these terms have to be specialized by their contexts:investissement/investissement (psychanalyse),absorption/absorption cutanee,goitre/goitre ovarienHere, investissement alone (investment) has the fi-nancial sense, whereas in investissement (psych-analyse), it has its more generic sense.
In a simi-lar way, absorption has a specific meaning in chem-istry, and goitre alone is a disorder of the thyroidgland.
These cases are often non-ambiguous in theoriginal English version of the same terms: for in-stance, investissement (psychanalyse) (fr) is a trans-lation of cathexis (en).A related case occurs when the name of a parentterm is underspecified:acides/acides pentanoiques,acne/acne rosacee.In these examples, acides means inorganic acids1and acne means acne vulgaris, but the conventionadopted is to use these single words to name the cor-responding concepts.4.2.3 Ontological commitmentFinally, some induced links, although absent fromthe MeSH, are potentially correct is-a links, but thedesigners of the MeSH have made a different mod-eling choice:amyotrophies/amyotrophies spinales enfance,hyperplasie/hyperplasie epitheliale focale,centre public sante/centre public sante men-tale,rectocolite/rectocolite hemorragique,penicillines/penicilline g.A general representational choice in the MeSH,as in some other medical terminologies (e.g.,SNOMED), is to differentiate on the one hand signsor symptoms and on the other hand diseases (amore fully characterized pathological state).
Thisis the case for amyotrophies and hyperplasie (signsor symptoms) vs amyotrophies spinales enfance andhyperplasie epitheliale focale (disease of the ner-vous system, of the mouth).For some reason, a centre public sante mentale(public mental health center) is considered not toshare all the attributes of a general centre publicsante (public health center), which prevents themfrom being in a parent-child relationship: they areonly siblings in the MeSH thesaurus.Penicillines, in the MeSH, have been chosen torefer to a therapeutic class of drugs (under antibi-otics, under chemical actions), whereas penicillineg is considered as a chemical substance.The structuring involved in these instances re-flects the ontological commitments of the terminol-1Note, though, that if inorganic acids was named this way,it would be impossible to link it by lexical induction to other,more specific types of inorganic acids.ogy designers, and cannot be recovered by lexicalinclusion.24.3 ?Expansion?
subsetWhen a ?parent?
term is in ?expansion?
position (endposition) in a ?child?
term, we assume that the se-mantic head of the child term is modified; the in-duced relation is indeed expected not to be is-a.Some of the main cases found are close to those forthe ?head?
subset.
Among others, we find again enu-merations (see subsection 4.2.1):immunodepresseurs / antineoplasiques et im-munodepresseursand syntactic ambiguity (subsection 4.2.2):oncogene/antigene viral oncogene,where the word oncogene is a noun in the first termand an adjective in the second one.Many of the relations found in the ?expansion?subset are partitive:abdomen/muscle droit abdomen,amerique centrale/indien amerique centrale,argent/nitrate argent.
(human body parts, a continent and its peoples, andchemical substances).In some instances, a general type of link betweenterms can be detected:caused-by: myxome/virus myxome,but in most other cases, we have what looks like aspecific thematic relation between a predicate andits argument:comportement alimentaire/troubles comporte-ment alimentaire,bovin/pneumonie interstitielle atypique bovin,hopital/capacite lits hopital,services sante/fermeture service sante,macrophage/activation macrophage.Note that some of these expansion relations involveadjectival derivations of nouns:cubitus/nerf cubital,genes/epreuve complementation genetique.2They might be amenable to distributional methods if theircontexts of occurrence are different enough.4.4 ?Other?
subsetIn this last subset, the ?parent?
term can be at anyposition in the ?child?
term other than head or ex-pansion.
It can also be non-contiguous, acceptingmodifiers or some other intervening elements.
Allthese cases are actually similar to those of the ?ex-pansion?
subset except those of the form:bacterie aerobie/bacterie gram-negatif aerobiewhere bacterie remains the head of the term.The following examples reproduce the generalcases of the ?expansion?
subset with additional mod-ifiers:arteres/anevrysme artere iliaque,hepatite b/virus hepatite b canard,encephalite/virus encephalite equine ouest,sommeil/troubles sommeil extrinseques,irrigation/liquide irrigation endocanalaire,maladie/assurance maladie personne agee.In some of them, adjectival derivation is involved:cellules/molecule-1 adhesion cellulaire vascu-laire,chimie/produits chimiques inorganiques,dent/implantation dentaire sous-periostee.Some relations are characteristic of the languageof chemical compounds:cytochrome c/ubiquinol-cytochrome c reduc-tase,diphosphate/uridine diphosphate acide glu-curonique,lysine/histone-lysine n-methyltransferase.The ?other?
subset alo hosted the following mor-phosyntactic ambiguity:cilie/cellule ciliee externewhere the words cilie (noun, an invertebrate organ-ism) and ciliee (inflected form of adjective cilie,which characterizes a type of cell) are conflated bylemmatization.
This error is mainly due to the factthat the MeSH is written with unaccented uppercaseletters: the adjective is actually spelled cili?, whichwould be unambiguous here.5 SynthesisWe presented in this paper a human analysis of auto-matically, lexically-induced term relations that werenot found in the terminology from which the termswere obtained (the MeSH thesaurus).
This lexicalmethod considers that a term   is probably a par-ent of a term  iff all the words of   occur in  .This inclusion test is helped by morphological nor-malization.Morphological normalization was found to beuseful not only in identifying the already ex-isting relations (section 3.2), but also for the?new?
relations.
This confirms previous work byJacquemin and Tzoukermann (1999).The occurrences of syntactic ambiguitysuggest that morphosyntactic tagging couldbe useful.
The methods specifically de-signed for detection of syntactic and morpho-syntactic term variants (Bourigault, 1994;Jacquemin and Tzoukermann, 1999) might then bemore efficient and less error-prone.
We must bewarned however that this may not be an easy task,since most of the MeSH terms are not syntacticallywell-formed (few determiners and prepositions,inverted heads) and contain rare, technical wordsthat are likely to be absent from most electroniclexicons.Spurious relations may come from severalsources.
A few cases are due to abusive morpho-logical normalization; errors in term names (trans-lation errors) were also uncovered.
We made a dis-tinction between ?head?
and ?expansion?
positionsof the ?parent?
term in its ?child?.
One would expectthat relations where the parent is in head positionwould be correct; however, this is not always true.The putative head of a term is sometimes not cor-rectly identified because of specific thesaural con-structs (the ?comma?
form) and chemical constructs(quinone reductases are a kind of reductases) whichdisplay head inversion, and because of enumera-tions.
An additional situation is that of a term whoseactual syntactic head does not entertain an is-a re-lation with it (the ?plaster cat?).
Furthermore, thehead word may not have a stable meaning: it maybe syntactically ambiguous (cilie), polysemous (in-vestissement) or underspecified (acne).The remaining ?head?
cases reveal specific mod-eling options, or ?ontological commitments?, of theterminology designers: the relations induced mightbe considered semantically valid, but were dis-carded in the MeSH because of overall structuringchoices.
These choices cannot be predicted with thelexical methods used here, and seem to be the mostresistant to attempts at automatic derivation.
Theyalso show that what is correct is not necessarily use-ful for a given terminology.The ?expansion?
cases may be useful to proposeother relations than is-a: we displayed partitive re-lations, but left to further work a classification of theremaining ones.
The UMLS semantic network rela-tions (NLM, 2001b) might be a relevant direction tolook into to represent such links.ReferencesOlivier Bodenreider, Anita Burgun, and Thomas C.Rindflesch.
2001.
Lexically-suggested hy-ponymic relations among medical terms and theirrepresentation in the UMLS.
In URI INISTCNRS, editor, TIA?2001 Terminologie et Intelli-gence artificielle, pages 11?21, Nancy.Didier Bourigault.
1994.
Extraction et structura-tion automatiques de terminologie pour l?aide ?l?acquisition de connaissances ?
partir de textes.In Proceedings of the 9    Conference RFIA-AFCET, pages 1123?1132, Paris, France, Jan-uary.
AFCET.James J Cimino.
1996.
Coding systems in healthcare.
In Jan H. van Bemmel and Alexa T. Mc-Cray, editors, Yearbook of Medical Informat-ics ?95 ?
The Computer-based Patient Record,pages 71?85.
Schattauer, Stuttgart.Natalia Grabar and Pierre Zweigenbaum.
2002.Lexically-based terminology structuring: a fea-sibility study.
In LREC Workshop on Using Se-mantics for Information Retrieval and Filtering,pages 73?77, Las Palmas, Canaries, May.
ELRA.Gregory Grefenstette.
1994.
Explorations in Auto-matic Thesaurus Discovery.
Natural LanguageProcessing and Machine Translation.
KluwerAcademic Publishers, London.Thierry Hamon, Adeline Nazarenko, and C?cileGros.
1998.
A step towards the detection ofsemantic variants of terms in technical docu-ments.
In Christian Boitet, editor, Proceedingsof the 17    COLING, pages 498?504, Montr?al,Canada, 10?14 August.Marti A. Hearst.
1992.
Automatic acquisition ofhyponyms from large text corpora.
In AntonioZampolli, editor, Proceedings of the 14    COL-ING, pages 539?545, Nantes, France, 23?28 July.INSERM, 2000.
Th?saurus Biom?dicalFran?ais/Anglais.
Institut National de laSant?
et de la Recherche M?dicale, Paris.Christian Jacquemin and Didier Bourigault.
2002.Term extraction and automatic indexing.
In Rus-lan Mitkov, editor, Handbook of ComputationalLinguistics.
Oxford University Press, Oxford.
Toappear.Christian Jacquemin and ?velyne Tzoukermann.1999.
NLP for term variant extraction: A syn-ergy of morphology, lexicon, and syntax.
InTomek Strzalkowski, editor, Natural languageinformation retrieval, volume 7 of Text, speechand language technology, chapter 2, pages 25?74.
Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht &Boston.David D. McDonald.
1993.
Internal and externalevidence in the identification and semantic cate-gorization of proper names.
In Branimir Bogu-raev and James Pustejovsky, editors, Corpus Pro-cessing for Lexical Acquisition, pages 61?76.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Stuart J Nelson, Douglas Johnston, and Betsy LHumphreys.
2001.
Relationships in medical sub-ject headings.
In Carol A Bean and RebeccaGreen, editors, Relationships in the organizationof knowledge, New York.
Kluwer Academic Pub-lishers.National Library of Medicine, Bethesda, Mary-land, 2001a.
Medical Subject Headings.www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/meshhome.html.National Library of Medicine, Bethesda, Mary-land, 2001b.
UMLS Knowledge Sources Manual.www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/.Patrick S?gu?la and Nathalie Aussenac.
1999.
Ex-traction de relations s?mantiques entre termeset enrichissement de mod?les du domaine.
InR?gine Teulier, editor, Actes de IC?99, June.Pierre Zweigenbaum.
1999.
Encoder l?informationm?dicale : des terminologies aux syst?mes derepr?sentation des connaissances.
InnovationStrat?gique en Information de Sant?, (2?3):27?47.
