Evangelising Language Technology:A Practically-Focussed Undergraduate ProgramRobert Dale, Diego Moll?
Aliod and Rolf SchwitterCentre for Language TechnologyDivision of Information and Communication SciencesMacquarie University, Sydney, Australia{rdale|diego|rolfs}@ics.mq.edu.auAbstractThis paper describes anundergraduate program in LanguageTechnology that we have developedat Macquarie University.
Wequestion the industrial relevance ofmuch that is taught in NLP courses,and emphasize the need for apractical orientation as a means togrowing the size of the field.
Weargue that a more evangelicalapproach, both with regard tostudents and industry, is required.The paper provides an overview ofthe material we cover, and makessome observations for the future onthe basis of our experiences so far.1 IntroductionThis paper describes our experiences in settingup an undergraduate program in languagetechnology, with a particular emphasis on thephilosophy that lies behind the decisions wehave made in designing this program.In Section 2, we sketch the background tothe program, and outline the perspective wetake on teaching in this area.
Against thisbackdrop, in Section 3, we describe theorientation and content of the program in somedetail.
In Section 4 we discuss the evaluation ofthe program, identify some lessons we havelearned regarding what works and whatdoesn?t, and point to where we intend to go inthe future.2 Background2.1 How The Program Came AboutOur program is hosted by the Department ofComputing at Macquarie, which offers a typicalrange of computer science courses.
At thisuniversity, standard undergraduate degreeprograms are three years in length.
Studentsmay elect to stay on for a fourth year in order toobtain an honours degree, although in amarketable area like computing, relatively fewstudents stay on beyond third year.
Theteaching year is split into two thirteen weeksemesters, with the first semester running fromMarch through June and the second semesterfrom August to November.In 2000, we obtained government fundingto set up an undergraduate program inlanguage technology.1 To obtain this funding,we argued that skills in the languagetechnologies were critical to the development ofthe next generations of computer interfaces,echoing statements made by many both inindustry and academia.
Central to our proposalwas the identification of the twin streams of (a)spoken language interaction and (b) smart textprocessing, particularly with regard to the Web;we took the view that these two major areaswould define the future of commercial NLPactivities over the next five years.
Our proposalemphasised heavily a practical orientation,whereby we set our goal to be the training ofknowledge workers who will design anddevelop practical applications in these areas.Our proposal was supported by a number ofindustry partners, including the Australianbranches of Motorola, Sun Microsystems,Philips Speech Systems, and the governmentresearch agency CSIRO.1 We will refrain from entering into an argumenthere as to the appropriate semantic distinctionsbetween the terms ?language technology?, ?naturallanguage processing?
and ?computational linguistics?.For current purposes, we?ll simply assume that allthree terms effectively cover approximately the sameterritory.July 2002, pp.
27-32.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Natural Language Processing and Computational Linguistics, Philadelphia,Proceedings of the Workshop on Effective Tools and Methodologies for Teaching2.2 Our Philosophical OrientationOur perception was that, in many institutions,natural language processing and computationallinguistics courses tended to share twoparticular characteristics.First, relatively few institutions have morethan one course at undergraduate level thatprovides material in this area.
In many cases,material in NLP or CL appears only as part of amore general course on Artificial Intelligence.This is of course determined by a range of localfactors, including inevitably the interests andknowledge of available staff.
However, animportant factor in many institutions that do nothave a long-established and strong researchgroup in the area is the widely-held sentimentthat NLP is a somewhat peripheral topic, or asubject of purely theoretical interest.
This makesit hard for those staff who are interested inteaching in this area to argue for a significantpresence in the curriculum.A second observation is that the materialtaught in introductory courses often tends tofocus on what we might call computationalsyntax: writing grammars and building parsers.Again, there are good reasons for this: somewould argue that you can?t do much else untilthis material is covered, and this is clearly thecorner of NLP that is most well-established withconsolidated results, as reflected by the balanceof coverage found in texts such as [Allen 1995]and [Jurafsky and Martin 2000], and, perhapsless so than in the past, the topic coverage atconferences such as ACL and Coling.2With regard to the first of theseobservations, we take a strong position.
If, as acommunity, we believe our own rhetoric aboutNLP being critical for machine interfaces andinformation processing technologies of thefuture, then NLP needs to become a much morecentral part of computing curricula: everystudent should be exposed to this area.
Ourdesire, presumably shared by most who work inthe area, is to see the field of NLP grow, withmany more knowledgeable practitioners,particularly in industry.2 One of the authors recently completed a bookproject that had as its goal the production of aresource that would meet this concern by providing amore balanced coverage of different aspects of NLP:see Dale et al[2000].
Unfortunately, this book is toolarge and expensive in its current form for use in ourcourses.With regard to our second observation,however, we take the view that the focusadopted in much undergraduate teaching in thisarea does not support this goal as well as itmight.
Teaching students about grammars andparsers may serve as a suitable introduction tofurther study in the area, but the bulk ofstudents who undertake undergraduate degreeswill go on to work in industry; only a minorityare likely to work in research laboratories orundertake doctoral studies.
Consequently,those graduates who find themselves in aposition where they might have the opportunityto use language processing techniques for thedevelopment of sophisticated applications areunlikely to have the full range of tools they needat their disposal.
The relatively narrow focus ofmuch undergraduate NLP teaching may also bein part responsible for the fairly widespreadview amongst the uninitiated that NLP isbasically about parsing and not much else.
Thisperception results in occasional postings tobulletin boards where senders from outside theNLP research community request a ?parser?,with their queries expressed in terms that makeit clear that they believe this one component willsolve all their NLP problems.2.3 The Importance of the Job MarketWe believe that if NLP is really to grow into afield of substantial visibility and worth in thewider industry community, there is a need toraise the status of study in NLP beyond that of aniche interest.
The key to making this happen isto emphasize the practical utility of work in thefield.There is a real chicken-and-egg situationhere.
We will only see an explosion in thenumber of real NLP applications if there aremore well-rounded NLP practitioners workingin industry exploring and developing thoseapplications; but students are very savvy aboutthe job market, and, faced with a choice, areunlikely to choose an NLP course over, say, anetworking course, when faced with the relativeproportions of job ads they see in the press andon the web.There are two related consequences of this.First, evangelism is critical: we need to get moretrained students out there, offering NLPsolutions to problems.
At the same time, weneed to give students concepts and techniquesthat enable them to provide those solutions.
Weneed to provide material that students can see isrelevant, and that can be used in many contexts.In our analysis, the job market for skills inlanguage processing, to the extent that it isidentifiable, consists of two major segments.First, and most obviously, there arecompanies that develop voice applications: thereare a great many companies now working inthis area, and voice recognition is a recognizedindustry sector.Second, there are companies that might useNLP techniques in developing applications thatprocess, maintain and reuse documents,whether on the desktop or on the Web.
Whilethe first of these segments is quite clearlyidentifiable, it is much more difficult to identifya sector that focuses on using NLP techniqueson text.
With some notable exceptions (andthese are largely small startups), we do not tendto find companies whose focus is NLP.
This isnot really surprising; NLP is just one toolamongst many that might be used in documentprocessing, and document processing issomething that crops up in many contexts.We therefore have a particular challengehere: we need to communicate to students thatNLP is something they may be able to use intheir future careers, but we can?t point to manyjob ads that specifically request NLP skills.
Theintuition of those working in the field is that thisstuff ought to be something that can make adifference in the processing of documents, butthere is not a lot of visible evidence that it isbeing used in those situations.
Anecdotalpersonal experience suggests that manycompanies would benefit from the applicationof NLP skills but are not aware of this.
Onesuspects that organizations may often bemaking use of techniques that we might want tothink of as NLP, but that these techniques arenot recognized as such.3 The ProgramGiven the above, our goal was to construct arange of courses that covered a broad range ofmaterial that students might be able to use intheir subsequent careers.
To emphasise thepractical orientation of what we wanted to do,we deliberately pitched the program as beingconcerned with Language Technology, ratherthan as a program in either Natural LanguageProcessing or Computational Linguistics.There is clearly something of an evangelicalelement to this: we wanted to make studentsaware of a broad range of techniques that wewould label Language Technology, with thegoal that, over time and as these students enterthe work force, an awareness would start tospread that these techniques are widely usable.This is not a short-term strategy: it takes severalyears for the results of these efforts to permeatethrough the system to a stage where they can beevaluated, but it is essential to get started.In this section, we present a summary of thematerial we deliver in the courses that make upour program.
More detail on each of thesecourses, and the program as a whole, can befound at http://www.clt.mq.edu.au/Teaching.The program consists of four courses that focusprincipally on Language Technology, and anadditional course that looks more broadly attechnologies for working with the web.
Figure 1shows the prerequisite structure that currentlyholds between these courses.3.1 Comp248: An Introduction toNatural Language ProcessingTaught in the second half of second year, this isthe course in our program that most closelymatches the typical undergraduate NLP course.The design of this course was driven by a desireto show students that they could build a useful,functioning application using NLP techniques;to this end, we felt it was important not to teachonly computational syntax, but also somethingabout semantics.
Our position here is thatsyntactic processing is only a means to an end,348:Intelligent TextProcessing248:Introduction toNLP249:Web Technology349:Interactive NLSystems448:AdvancedTopics in NLPFigure 1 : The Prerequisite Structureand we felt it important to quickly get studentsto the stage where they could actually see somepractical import of what they were doing.
Tothis end, in the first half of the course we take afairly standard approach to teaching Prolog,whereby the students do some rudimentarymorphological processing, build some DefiniteClause Grammars, and learn about parsingtechniques.
In the second half of the course, weadd semantics to the mix: although we teach anintroduction to lambda calculus at this stage, forthe practical work we focus on a muchshallower approach to semantics (effectivelysemantic grammars), and the students build aNL database query system that allows them toask questions of a database of flights.
Along theway they learn about unification-basedgrammar, case frames, lexical resources,WordNet, and semantic networks.
The guidingprinciple throughout is relevance to building apractical application.3.2 Comp249: Web TechnologyAlthough this course is part of our LanguageTechnology program, it does not contain asignificant language technology element (atleast as the term is currently construed).
It turnsout that the background material taught herehas proven to be very useful in other courses weteach, so we are considering binding this coursemore tightly to the others.
The course covers:Perl programming, web design, client-servercomputing, search engines, XML and relatedtechnologies, database integration, privacy andsecurity, VoiceXML, and content management;inevitably, with such broad coverage, mosttopics are treated relatively briefly.Our goal for this course is to target astudent body who have little awareness of whatNLP is and to get them to see LT in a widerperspective.
The success of this course, which isby far the most popular of the units in theprogram, has led us to explore better ways ofleveraging this interest.3.3 Comp348: Intelligent TextProcessingAt the third year level, we offer two courses thattake the second year material as a base.
Wenoted earlier that we viewed the job market asconsisting of two relatively distinct sectors, oneconcerned with voice processing and oneconcerned with document processing.
Thisperception is very deliberately reflected in theindividual biases of the third year offerings;Comp348 addresses the needs of documentprocessing, whereas Comp349, discussed later,leans more towards voice processing.The course on intelligent text processingcovers basics of text processing using Perl;tokenisation and sentence segmentation, textsummarisation; information retrieval; corpus-based approaches, part of speech tagging, wordsense disambiguation, information extraction;and machine translation.
Again, this is a lot ofmaterial to cover, and inevitably we only skimthe surface of many topics.
However, in the firstoffering of the course, students did significantassignments in both text summarisation (usingsentence extraction) and information extraction.The latter assignment was run roughly along thelines of the Message UnderstandingConferences: using conference announcementsas a data set, the students were provided with atraining set on the basis of which they built aninformation extraction system; this was thentested against unseen data, and scores wereautomatically derived.
Now in its secondoffering, our intention is to use anaphorresolution as the focus of an assignment.Our goal in this course is to providestudents with a toolset for text processing froma language technology perspective.
We focus onrelatively shallow methods, since these are themethods students are most likely to findthemselves using in their subsequent careers.Our driving aim here is for our alumni torecognize that LT provides solutions.3.4 Comp349: Interactive NaturalLanguage SystemsAs already indicated, this course aims toprovide knowledge that students need in orderto be effective in the voice processing industrysector.The focus here is on, effectively, text- andspeech-based dialog systems.
In the first half ofthe course, we cover a significant amount ofrelatively theoretical material, covering questionanswering systems, database interfaces, andanswer extraction.
Students build a quitesophisticated text-based natural language querysystem.In the second half of the course, we attemptto apply the theoretical ideas in the verypractical context of building spoken languagedialog systems.
We begin by using the CSLUToolkit3, which the students use to build a voicebanking application.
We then introduceVoiceXML in some detail; using a PC-baseddevelopment environment, students build asimple flight reservations system.4We place a heavy emphasis here on aspectsof voice user inferface (VUI) design; in thepractical half of the course, the materials we usetake a similar approach to that taken in vendorcourses that aim to train dialog designers andgrammar writers.
At the same time, we have asan important aim a clear exposition of therelationship between the ideas explored inresearch systems and commercially deployedsystems; in practice it can be very hard to see apath from the former to the latter.
We makeclear to students that our goal is to teach themhow to build practical dialog applications now,but to get them to think about what the nextgenerations of such applications might be in thelight of the results that come out of researchlaboratories.3.5 Comp448: Advanced Topics inNatural Language ProcessingFor those students who stay on for a fourth year,we run a course that is more driven by aselection of specific research topics.
At the timeof writing, the first offering of this course isbeing delivered.
We are using the course tocover in more depth core topics that are onlyreally touched upon in earlier courses, withmore detailed exploration of word sensedisambiguation, anaphora resolution, discoursestructure and natural language generation.
Thecourse is seminar-based, with a high proportion3 This toolkit provides an excellent environmentfor teaching students to think about issues such asdialog flow, as well as introducing them to manyother aspects of spoken language dialog systems.
Seehttp:// cslu.cse.ogi.edu/toolkit/.4 We have experimented with a number ofdifferent VoiceXML development environmentswhich are freely available over the web; each has itsadvantages and disadvantages.
Currently we?ve hadmost success with Motorola?s MADK : seehttp://developers.motorola.com/developers/.
At thetime of writing, however, this does not support thenew VoiceXML 2.0 standard, so we are consideringother alternatives.of student presentations, and an assignment inanaphor resolution.The level of interest amongst students atthis level is such that we expect to offeradditional honours level courses later in thecurrent academic year.4 Outcomes and IssuesThe program has been operating since thesecond half of 2000.
Since that time, we havetaught Comp248 twice and Comp349 once;Comp249 and Comp348 are currently beingtaught for the second time; and Comp448 isbeing taught for the first time.It is too early to establish to what extent thematerial we have taught is impacting ongraduates?
work practices: the first students tocomplete degrees that incorporate our coursesare only now graduating.
However, we havemade use of a number of feedback and reviewmechanisms over the last 18 months, and thesehave already provided us with new ideas forhow to improve what we are trying to do.4.1 Evaluating Course ContentWe make use of the typical infrastructure madeavailable for evaluation purposes: student-staffliaison committees, formal questionnaires, andalso a significant amount of informal feedbackthrough discussions with students.
We alsohave a management advisory board withrepresentation from industry; this meets twice ayear to review the development of the programand to comment on its industrial relevance.Generally, the courses have been very wellreceived by the students who take them.
Ouradvisory board is very comfortable with thematerial we teach, but we suffer here from theproblem that the voice recognition industry isbetter represented here than the hard-to-definedocument processing industry alluded toearlier.
So, we have strong evidence thatstudents find the material interesting,challenging and informative; our industrypartners think we are going in the rightdirection; but we have yet to demonstrate thatthe wider industry community will see a benefitfrom students who have grasped this material.4.2 Course MaterialsWe have faced a not insignificant problem infinding appropriate course materials for thesecourses, with the consequence that we have hadto develop most things from scratch.
For thefirst offering of Comp248, the introductory NLPcourse, we used Allen [1995]; in the secondoffering, we found Covington [1994] to be moreuseful.
Although this is technically out of print,Prentice Hall has a technology for producingshort print runs on demand.The materials problem was more severe inour third year courses, since there are no evenvaguely adequate textbooks for the material wewanted to cover.
We provide students with acomprehensive reading packet, but it is not easyto find appropriate survey or introductoryreadings in the various topic areas we cover.
Asa consequence of this we are exploring thepossibility of writing a textbook that covers thematerial in each of these courses.5 Lesssons Learned and FutureDirectionsEighteen months from the start of the program,we are reasonably assured that we are going inthe right direction; some things, inevitably,require fine tuning.
We note here some keyconsequences of our experiences so far.5.1 Voice Captures the ImaginationPerhaps not surprisingly, it is the study of voicerecognition that has really captured students?imaginations.
The level of enthusiasmgenerated in a laboratory full of studentswearing headsets talking to their machines iswonderful to watch (although the workingenvironment doesn?t do a lot for speechrecognizer accuracy).
With this in mind, we arereworking our second year course, Comp248, sothat it will contain some of the voice materialcurrently used in third year.
We are alsoconsidering an emphasis here on technologythat students might meet outside of thecurriculum, such as chatterbots.
Our strategyhere is to entice students into the area withappealing content, and draw them into the moretheoretically challenging material in latercourses.5.2 Document Processing as a ThemeIt has become obvious that our Web Technologycourse could play a more coherent role in ourprogram.
One obvious direction we arepursuing is to cement the two strands identifiedearlier even further, by seeing the WebTechnology course specifically as a precursor forthe Intelligent Text Processing course.
At thesame time, we are considering broadening thethird year course to cover Document Processingmore generally, as a way of making its relevancemore apparent; a shift of this kind might alsopermit the inclusion of more material oninformation retrieval and related technologies,which are of some significance from an industryperspective.5.3 Linguistic BackgroundWe have met the common, and not unexpected,problem that some students do not have asufficient grasp of linguistic matters to performsatisfactorily in this area.
To this end, we haveinitiated the introduction of a first year coursethat covers basic aspects of linguistics, logic andcomputation, taught by ourselves in conjunctionwith the University?s Departments ofPhilosophy and Linguistics.5.4 ConclusionsSo far, our program has been seen as verysuccessful from an academic perspective, andhas generated significant interest amongststudents.
Our next challenge is to persuade thewider industry to see students with this trainingas very valuable assets.
We have instituted analumni program that will attempt to track thesestudents, with the expectation of somepreliminary feedback being available by the endof the calendar year.ReferencesJames Allen [1995] Natural LanguageUnderstanding.
Benjamin Cummings, MenloPark, CA.Michael Covington [1994] Natural LanguageProcessing for Prolog Programmers.
Prentice Hall,NJ.Robert Dale, Hermann Moisl and HaroldSomers [2000] Handbook of Natural LanguageProcessing.
Marcel Dekker, NY.Daniel Jurafsky and James Martin [2000] Speechand Language Processing: An Introduction toNatural Language Processing, ComputationalLinguistics and Speech Recognition.
Prentice Hall,NJ.
