Scenario forms for web information seeking and summarizing inbone marrow transplantationMargit Becher Brigitte Endres-Niggemeyer Gerrit FichtnerFachhochschule Hannover (University of Applied Sciences and Arts)Dept.
of Information and CommunicationRicklinger Stadtweg 120, D-30459 Hanover, Germany{Brigitte.Endres-Niggemeyer, Margit.Becher, Gerrit.Fichtner}@ik.fh-hannover.deAbstractThis paper presents the user-centeredinterface of a summarization system forphysicians in Bone Marrow Transplan-tation (BMT).
It serves both retrievaland summarization, eliciting the queryand presenting multi-document summa-ries in a situation-specific organization.Introduction: User-centered scenarioforms for retrieval and summarizationThis paper presents the user interface of asummarization system for physicians in BoneMarrow Transplantation (BMT).
The interfacehas users state well-articulated questions thatserve as summarization targets and basis forretrieval queries, and it displays summarizationresults in an organization that fits the user?ssituation.
Although user interfaces have at-tracted almost no interest in summarizationresearch so far, we think that a suitable user-oriented interface is important for a summari-zation system.
This paper deals with such aninterface, not with the summarization proce-dures the interface enables.
In good user-cen-tered design attitude (Norman and Draper,1986), we developed the user interface first,and are still equipping it component by com-ponent with the intended functionality.Our users are highly specialized physicians inBone Marrow Transplantation (BMT), a life-critical field of internal medicine.
They needanswers to their questions that are fast, to thepoint, and prepared for direct application.
Us-ing question/answer scenario forms derivedfrom empirical scenario descriptions, they canspecify their current situation and the missingknowledge items with the help of a domain-specific ontology.
The system accepts the filledout question scenario, projects it to a query forsearch engines and Medline (the most commonmedical reference retrieval engine), and startsthe search.
Retrieved documents are down-loaded, preprocessed, and then checked forpassages where question terms accumulate.These passages are examined by summariza-tion agents that follow strategies of humansummarizers (Endres-Niggemeyer 1998).
Ac-cepted statements enter the summary, under theheading given by the scenario element thatasked for them.
Thus the summary organizesnew knowledge in a fashion that mirrors theuser?s situation.
All the time, the user-centeredinterface keeps users in their own task envi-ronment.To produce summaries that fit users?
informa-tion needs, reasonably precise question state-ments are required.
Questions (think of Who?Why?
etc.)
also have well-known qualities astext organizers, so that they can serve summaryorganization, the query items switching toheadings for (partial) summaries when answersare delivered.Well-structured queries are most easily elicitedby a convenient form.
With a suitable choice ofreal-life scenarios (ideas inspired by Carroll,2000), users can formulate their search andsummarizing requests by filling out such aform, simply stating what they know and whatthey are missing in a given situation.
Wherethe user identifies a knowledge gap (a ques-tion), the system will feed in the respectivesummary items if possible.In order to mediate between the users?
and thesystem perspective, we equip the scenarioforms with intermediary structures - a detailedinterpretation for summarizing and an abridgedone for IR.
Within these interpretations, theform itself is represented by constants, the userquery provides variables.In the following, we explain where our inspi-ration for the interface came from, how its de-sign aims are met, ensued by empirical mod-eling and implementational details.1 Background and relatedapproachesWhile graphical output of summaries was al-ready addressed in the 80ies, interest in user in-terfaces of summarization systems is morerecent.
Aone et al (1999) as well as Strzal-kowski et al (1999) and Ando et al (2000)describe graphical user interfaces of theirsummarizers.
White, Ruthven and Joemon(2001) positively evaluate a summarizationfunction and interface added to Altavista andGoogle.
Buyukkokten et al (w.d.)
summarizefor hand-helds.
Their small screens make themconsider the user interface.
Kan, McKeownand Klavans (2001) see summarization on topof an IR task, as we do.
They intend to replacethe common ranked output lists of retrieval orsearch engines by a multi-document summarystructure.
Our graphical user interface appliesfindings and principles of user-centered infor-mation seeking.
We are not aware of any ear-lier approaches that deal with user-centeredquery formulation in summarization.Human-computer interaction and interfacedevelopment are well-trodden research areas inIR (overviews by Hearst 1999; Marchioniniand Komlodi, 1998).
Especially in the DigitalLibraries context there is plenty of work andnew ideas about how to improve user accessand to make retrieval interfaces more intuitive,both on the Internet and in specializedcollections such as videos (see e.g.
Mackinlay,Rao and Card, 1995, or Geisler et al, 2001).
InIR, templates are frequent, but we see no userinterfaces that consistently derive the queryfrom a description of the user need.
One possi-ble reason for this is that most approaches dealwith less well-defined environments, while inthe setting of clinical BMT, users are in well-circumscribed situations.Figure 1.
User-oriented query formulation scenario: Adverse drug effects (simplified)Underlying diseasechronic myelogenous leukemiaide effects included nausea, vomiting and diarrhea, muscle cramps, arthralgias,eriorbital edema, peripheral edema, dermatitis and myelosuppression.
Most ofhese were grade 1 or 2 toxicities.
Grade 3/4 drug related adverse events includedeutropenia (12%), thrombocytopenia (6%), dermatitis and eczema (3%), nauseand vomiting (2%), and anemia (1%) [27].uthor Michael E. O'Dwyer and Brian J. Drukeritle The Role of the Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor STI571 in the Treatment of Cancerull TextDrugGlivecAdverse clinical effecthrombocytopeniaStatistical characteristic of adverse drug effectComplete blood counts must be performed regularly during therapy with Glivec.Treatment of CML patients with Glivec has been associated with neutropenia orthrombocytopenia.
However, the occurrence of these cytopenias is dependent on thestage of the disease being treated and they were more frequent in patients withaccelerated phase CML or blast crisis as compared to patients with chronic phaseCML.
Treatment with Glivec may be interrupted or the dose be reduced, asrecommended in section (Dosage and method of administration).AuthorTitle Data SheetFull TextAdverseDrugEffectPatientge 21-50ransplantation allogeneic BMTonth after BMT > 12cute GvHD Grade IThe initial results of these phase II trials were presented at the annual meeting of the American Societyof Hematology (ASH) in December 2000.
In these studies patients were treated with STI571 at 400 to600 mg daily dose.
This dose range was based on analysis of pharmacokinetic and response data fromthe phase I study.
In the dose finding study a dose level of 300mg appeared to be the threshold forsignificant therapeutic benefit.
In addition, pharmacokinetic data showed that this dose achieved atrough level of 1?M, which is the in vitro IC50 for cellular proliferation.
Finally, an analysis ofresponses in white blood counts and platelets over time suggested that doses of 400 to 600 mg were onthe plateau of a dose-response curve, indicating that this dose range would be efficacious for phase IItesting [26].
In phase II testing, 532 chronic phase patients who were refractory to or intolerant ofinterferon-?
were treated with a STI571 dose of 400mg daily.
Eligibility criteria in this study allowedinclusion of patients with up to 15% blasts and 15% basophils in the marrow or peripheral blood.
After amedian exposure of 254 days (86% of patients were treated for 6-12 months), 47% and 28% of patientsachieved major and complete cytogenetic responses, respectively.
Only 3% of patients discontinuedtreatment due to disease progression with only 2% of all patients stopping therapy due to adverse events.Side effects included nausea, vomiting and diarrhea, muscle cramps, arthralgias, periorbital edema,peripheral edema, dermatitis and myelosuppression.
Most of these were grade 1 or 2 toxicities.
Grade3/4 drug related adverse events included neutropenia (12%), thrombocytopenia (6%), dermatitis andeczema (3%), nausea and vomiting (2%), and anemia (1%) [27].
Results of the phase II study inaccelerated phase patients were equally impressive [28].
Overall, 91% of 233 patients showed someform of hematologic response, while 63% of patients achieved a complete hematologic response (CHR)with or without peripheral blood recovery, with 44% achieving a CHR with peripheral blood recovery(neutrophils > 1.0 x 109/L and platelets > 100 x 109/L).
Twenty-one percent (21%) of patients achieveda major cytogenetic response with 14% complete responses.
Overall, 41% of accelerated phase patientshad some form of cytogenetic response.
Again, these results were achieved without substantial toxicity.Not surprisingly, there was a higher incidence of grade 3/4 hematological toxicity in this patientpopulation, 20%, 17% and 15% of patients developing grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia, anemia orneutropenia, respectively.
However, only 2% of patients developed febrile neutropenia.
Finally, resultsof the phase II study treating 260 myeloid blast crisis patients with STI571 were presented [29].
Theoverall response rate was 64% with 11% achieving complete remission (CR = < 5% blasts) withperipheral blood recovery.
Another 15% of patients cleared their marrows to less than 5% blasts but didnot meet the criteria for CR due to persistent cytopenias.
Lastly, 38% of patients were either returned tochronic phase or had partial responses.
Cytogenetic responses were seen in 27% of cases with 15%major and 6% complete responses.
Median survival was 6.8 months (8.6 months in patients treated withSTI571 as first line therapy versus 4.4 months when STI571 was used as second line therapy).
Thirtypercent (30%) of patients were still alive at 14 months with a suggestion of a plateau on the survivalcurve.
These results compare favorably in a historical context to chemotherapy for myeloid blast crisisin which the median survival is approximately 3 months.
Toxicity was comparable to that seen in theaccelerated phase study.Future directions in therapy of CMLIn addition to the ongoing phase II studies, a phase III randomized study, comparing STI571 withinterferon and ara-C in newly diagnosed patients is ongoing.
The results of this study, plus longer followup on patients in the phase II studies will be required to determine the place of STI571 in CMLtreatment algorithms.
From the results presented above, it is clear that STI571 works best when usedearly in the disease course, chronic phase as opposed to blast crisis.
As it is possible that Bcr-Abl is thesole oncogenic abnormality in early stage disease, STI571 may be sufficient as a single agent in somepatients with CML.
With disease progression, additional genetic abnormalities may render CML cellsless dependent on Bcr-Abl for survival.
Thus, in blast crisis patients, it is clear that therapy with STI571alone is insufficient for the vast majority of these patients.incidence213Figure 2.
Answering state of the scenario form ?
source document at the right side.
Numbered arrows point toitems explained in section 2.1.User-centered research on information seeking(Belkin, Oddy and Brookes 1982; Bates, 1989;Ingwersen, 1992; Marchionini, 1995; Borg-man, 1996; Marchionini and Komlodi, 1998)claims that users are entitled to state their in-formation needs in their own thinking andworking context.
The research history reflectsa long struggle for user-oriented informationseeking as opposed to machine-driven queryformulation in IR.
The ASK (Anomalous Stateof Knowledge) hypothesis of Belkin, Oddy andBrooks (1982) gives the classic formulation ofthe problem: Users who ask are in difficulty,they lack a piece of knowledge and are busyrestructuring their convictions.
This is a badmoment to additionally confront them with anIR system, instead of adapting to their needs.Bates?
(1989) landmark ?berrypicking?
modelof information seeking pinpoints the advancein understanding of how human users seek andprocess information in natural environments.During an information seeking process, Bates(1989) observes many rounds of retrievingdocuments and learning with changing goals.Empirical data have confirmed her analysis(see Hearst, 1999).
When Marchionini andKomlodi (1998) wrote their overview of in-formation seeking interfaces, they put user-centered query interfaces on the researchagenda.It is commonplace knowledge in IR that endusers are not very proficient in IR tasks, be-cause of missing background knowledge andpractice.
They have poor chances to overcomean ?eternal novice?
condition (Borgman,1996).
Therefore, the traditional work orga-nization in IR includes intermediaries (cf.Ingwersen, 1992).
For better retrieval results,they help with problem definition, structure thequestion strategy in a presearch interview, de-velop queries that promise retrieval success,execute the search, and check the retrievalresult in a post-search interview.Our summarization follows a knowledge-basedhuman-like style of argumentation (Endres-Niggemeyer, 1998).
The main knowledgesource is a BMT ontology comprising about4400 concepts of the domain.
Since users statetheir information need with concepts from thisontology, the ontology is also an importantcomponent of the user interface (see figures 1,4).
From an IR point of view, ontologies are le-gitimate offspring of thesauri.
Many thesauriare used for indexing documents and formulat-ing queries (see Lutes, 1998).
By applying adomain ontology like a classic thesaurus, weuse a practice that has stood the test of de-cades.2 The scenario interfaceA scenario reflects a concrete situational con-text.
When an information need comes up in asituation, situation characteristics inspire andrestrict information seeking: if the patient is atoddler, specific therapies for geriatric patientsare out of scope.
Situational features of thistype are in an obvious way useful for findingout what information is desired to fill a currentknowledge gap.
They are recorded in our in-ductively developed scenarios.
The graphicaluser interface supports interaction supportedby scenarios: navigation, selection and transferof items, etc.
in a way that is easy and safe touse.
A movie helps novice users to get started.2.1 User view and useThe claim of user-centered information seek-ing is to enable users to remain integrated intheir own domain and think about their own is-sues when stating their information needs.We serve physicians in high-duty situations.Well-designed scenarios help them to structuretheir questions for better retrieval and summa-rization performance.
They incorporate knowl-edge about the important features of an infor-mation need situation.To fill out the query template of Medline, theirstandard information source, our users have todeal with features of IR systems, with data-bases and database fields to be searched,search terms, document types, publicationdates and the well-known Boolean operators.The query scenario presented in figure 1avoids these problems.
With this interface, theretrieval and summarization apparatus remainsbehind the scenes: no databases to choose, nodatabase fields to select, no Boolean operatorsto apply.Instead, we have some unobtrusive technicalcontrols at the screen: check buttons (pointer1), simple text fields (pointer 2), multiple textfields (pointer 3), field headings procuring theappropriate ontology classes when clicked(pointer 4), question marks (pointer 5).
Textfields are labeled and prestructured.
They re-ceive an ontology concept that fits the classindicated by the label.
If a text field is leftempty with the question button selected, thismeans a question about the ontology class thatis prespecified in the slot.
Entries for the slotshop in from the system ontology (left side ofthe screen) by means of a mouse-click.
Byclicking on the question mark, the user flags aslot as conveying a question.
All other slotsand checkboxes state the given features of thecurrent situation.Related scenarios are linked to each other byhypertext links in the head of the forms.We illustrate how the interaction with scenarioforms works with ?Adverse drug effect?, ascenario serving situations with drug-relatedcomplications.
In  Figure 1, the physician?sproblem is to clear up an adverse drug event: apatient?s platelet count has dropped (trombo-cytopenia) when Glivec was administered.Figure 1 shows the question scenario screenwith the question already formulated: In thepatient block, the user has ticked checkboxesfor stating the patient?s age, the type of trans-plantation (s)he has had, the time that has goneby since the transplant, and the mild (grade 1)Graft-versus-host disease of the patient.
Afterthat, the user has clicked on the field label?Adverse drug effect?
(pointer 4).
The re-spective class of the ontology showed up onthe left of the screen, in systematic order (up-per half - pointer 6) and in alphabetical order(lower half ?
pointer 7).
There, the user found?thrombocytopenia?.
In both displays a little?D?
icon in front of an entry (pointer 8) pro-vides a description of the concept when clickedon.
With a click on the ?thrombocytopenia?entry, the concept has slipped into its targetfield ?Adverse drug effect?.
The user hasstated the statistical value of interest, whichhappens to be ?incidence?, and activated thequestion mark of the slot (pointer 5).
This ishis information need.
The question form isready for search.The system returns with the answer screen(Figure 2).
The answer (pointer 1) is given asan excerpt from the original.
It is inserted un-der the question field, having here the content?incidence?.
This field functions now as a sortof subheading, in line with standard ideas oftext organization.
Each text clip is linked to itsposition in the source document (pointer 2).
Bya click on the hypertext link, the source docu-ment is displayed with the extract highlighted(pointer 3).2.2 Predicate logic interpretation andqueries for search enginesScenarios are equipped with a predicate logicinterpretation that sets up the target structurefor summarization.
It restates the scenario bymeans of propositions contained in the ontol-ogy.
Possible user input is introduced by vari-ables.Figure 3 shows how the intermediary structurebuffers users from IR machinery.
It comprisesthe code of the user-oriented scenario and itsinterpretation: the structured question forsummarization formulated in first-orderstatements including user-produced values, andthe query strategy derived from it.Figure 4 presents the interpretation of the ?Ad-verse drug effect?
scenario whose user view isshown in figure 1.
It consists of Prolog-stylefirst-order assertions.
The generic state of thescenario interpretation is given in the upper leftcorner of the figure.
From this representation,an abridged generic scenario query set hasbeen developed and tested for retrieval capac-ity (upper right corner).
As soon as the user hasentered values, they replace in the assertionsthe surface variable names (tagged with ?#?
)that serve as their placeholders.
Thus a specificscenario interpretation (middle left in Figure 4)is built up.
Retrieval queries need fewer itemsthan summarization target specifications, butthey are derived likewise by replacing vari-ables with their current content.
We use up tofour queries, relaxing the constraints if theanswer set is too small.Summarization targets are first-order contexts(McCarthy and Buvac, 1993) as used in theontology.
They equip first-order statementswith additional context propositions.
This isuseful in medicine where many assertions arelimited in scope.
Restrictions must be stated inorder to make up true expressions.When building the target context expressionfor summarization (see Figure 4, lower leftcorner), propositions without user input aredisregarded.
If the respective slot is given thequestion property, the proposition goes into thecore of the context, otherwise it is put into itscontext section.
Like this, different instances ofthe same scenario give rise to different querysets and trigger different summaries.2.3 Empirical modelingScenario Acquisition.
During scenario acqui-sition, we provide broad scenario families andask physicians to describe scenarios that mightfit into them, drawing from their experienceduring the last week or month.
We obtain em-pirical scenarios such as:?Patient with clearly progressing MDS andisochromosome 13.
Autologous Tx??
(MDS = Myelodysplastic Syndrome, Tx =Therapy, here bone marrow transplantation)So far, we have collected 131 empirical sce-narios.Content Engineering.
Almost all scenarios ofour users need reworking (splitting, restructu-ring, reformulation etc.)
in order to provide thebasis for scenario forms of general usability.First, scenario descriptions are filled up withitems left out by the physicians, but needed forsuccessful retrieval.
Next, empirical scenariodescriptions are generalized by separatingparameters of the individual situation from itsmore general and recurring features.
If aphysician asks for therapies against a herpessimplex infection, the same framework willapply to questions about other infections, forinstance about a fusarium infection.
A user willenter fusarium instead of herpes simplex.
Thescenario form codes the reusable structure,individual content is filled in from theontology.On the whole, we manage to remodel empiricalscenarios.3 ImplementationNearly the whole user interface is coded inJavaScript.
The scenario interpretations and theontology are stored in an XML database.
Forprocessing, scenarios are transferred with theuser input in an XML structure defined by ageneral DTD describing the common pattern ofall scenarios.
After processing the user input,for every field marked as a question, extractsof the retrieved documents as well as links tothe corresponding full text documents are in-serted in the scenario structure.
In this way,exactly the same data structure is used both forthe question scenario and for the answer sce-nario.Figure 3.
Scenarios mediating between user and system<--!
patient-->age (patient, #Patient#Age)treatmentCharacteristic (#Patient#Transplantation)timeperiod (bone marrow transplantation, , #Patient#Months after BMT)suffer (patient, #Patient#Acute GvHD)<--!
scenario body -->isMainDisease (patient, #Underlying disease)cause (#Drug, #Adverse clinical effect)hasCharacteristic (#Adverse clinical effect,#Statistical characteristic of adverse drug effect)bone marrow transplantation; #Drug; #Adverse clinical effect;#Statistical characteristic of adverse drug effectbone marrow transplantation; #Drug; #Adverse clinical effect#Drug; #Adverse clinical effect; #Statistical characteristicof adverse drug effect#Drug; #Adverse clinical effectGeneric scenario interpretationvariableconstantSpecific scenario interpretationage (patient, 21- 50) &treatmentCharacteristic (allogeneic BMT) &timeperiod (bone marrow transplantation, , > 12) &suffer (patient, acute GvHD grade 1)ist (age (patient, 21- 50) &treatmentCharacteristic (allogeneic BMT) &timeperiod (bone marrow transplantation, , > 12) &suffer (patient, acute GvHD grade 1) &isMainDisease (patient, chronic myelogenous leukemia) &cause (Glivec, thrombocytopenia),hasCharacteristic (thrombocytopenia, incidence))?Summarization targetuser inputGeneric scenario queries (descending specifity)Specific scenario queriesbone marrow transplantation; Glivec; thrombocytopenia; incidencebone marrow transplantation; Glivec; thrombocytopeniaGlivec; thrombocytopenia; incidenceGlivec; thrombocytopeniauser inputisMainDisease (patient, chronic myelogenous leukemia)cause (Glivec, thrombocytopenia)hasCharacteristic (thrombocytopenia, incidence)user inputknowledge engineering and testingderivationFigure 4.
The example scenario?s interpretation4.
Current state of developmentAt the time of writing, our current scenario li-brary comprises 40 scenarios.
We expect tohave a manageable set (less than 100 of them)when we finish.
They serve recurrent situ-ational structures.
A catch-all scenario dealswith cases where no prefabricated scenario isappropriate.
It passes users to PubMed andGoogle.Our BMT ontology currently comprises about4400 concepts, 2800 propositions, and some1400 contexts.
This should be mentioned, sincethe ontology is crucial for the usability of thesystem and the user interface.Scenario engineering is carried out in coopera-tion with a BMT specialist.
We adhere to for-mative evaluation (Scriven, 1967).
Currently,we are starting retrieval tests.
Summarizationtrials will follow.
A serious restructuring thatwill change the usability features of the inter-face is envisaged for later when we shall moveit to a mobile hand-held device.ConclusionIn this article we have shown how user-basedscenario forms support users?
interaction withinformation during information seeking.
Thuswe comply with a core requirement for user-centered information-seeking interfaces, andwe manage to obtain structured questions thatset up a reasonable target structure for multi-document summarizing.AcknowledgementsThe thanks of the authors go to Bernd Herten-stein, Claudia Villiger and Juliane Topp fortheir help with scenario development, and toArnold Ganser and Michael Stadler for testingthe interface.Implementation of SummIt-BMT is supportedby the German Science Foundation (DFG)under grant EN 186/6-1 and HE 2927/2-1, bythe German Federal Ministery of Educationand Research (bmbf) under grant 1701200, andby the Ministery of Science and Culture ofLower Saxony under grant 1999.384.ReferencesAndo, R. K., Boguraev, B. K., Byrd, R. J., & Neff,M.
S. (2000) Multi-document Summarization byVisualizing Topical Content.
Workshop on Auto-matic Summarization, 2000, 79-88.Aone, C., Okurowski, M.E., Gorlinsky, J.
& Lar-sen, B.
(1999) A scalable summarization systemusing robust NLP.
In I. Mani and M. Maybury(eds), Advances in automated text summarization.Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 71?80.Bates, M. J.
(1989) The design of browsing andberrypicking techniques for the online searchinterface.
Online Review 13, 407-424.Belkin, N., Oddy, R.N., & Brooks, H.M. (1982)ASK for information retrieval: Part I. Back-ground and theory.
Journal of Documentation 38,2, 61-71.Borgman, C. L. (1996) Why are online catalogs stillhard to use.
Journal of the American Society forInformation Science 47, 7, 493-503.Buyukkokten, O., Garcia-Molina, H. & Paepcke, A.(w.d.)
Seeing the whole in parts: Text summari-zation for web browsing with handheld devices.http://www-db.stanford.edu/~orkut/papers/www10b/index.htmlCarroll, J.M.
(2000) Making use.
Scenario-baseddesign of human-computer interfaces.
CambridgeMA: MIT Press.Endres-Niggemeyer, B.
(1998) Summarizing infor-mation.
Berlin: Springer.Geisler, G., Marchionini, G., Nelson, M., Spinks,R., &  Yang, M. (2001) Interface concepts for theOpen Video Project.
Proc.
of the 64th AnnualMeeting of the American Society for InformationScience and Technology (pp.
58 ?
75).
Washing-ton DC.Hearst, M. (1999) User Interfaces and visualization.In R. Baeza-Yates & B. Ribeiro-Neto  (Eds.
)Modern Information Retrieval.
(pp.
257?324).New York: ACM Press.http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/~hearst/irbook/10/node1.htmlIngwersen, P. (1992) Information retrieval inter-action.
London: Taylor Graham.Kan, M.-Y., McKeown, K.R.
& Klavans, J.L.
(2001) Domain-specific informative and indica-tive summarization for information retrieval.Workshop on Text Summarization / DUC 2001Meeting on Summary Evaluation.
New Orleans.http://wwwnlpir.nist.gov/projects/duc/duc2001/agenda_duc2001.htmlLutes, B.
(1998) Web thesaurus compendium.http://www-cui.darmstadt.gmd.de/~lutes/thesauri.htmlMackinlay, J. D., Rao, R. & Card S. K. (1995) Anorganic user interface for searching citation links.http://www.acm.org/sigchi/chi95/Electronic/documnts/papers/jdm_bdy.htmMarchionini, G. (1995) Information seeking inelectronic environments.
New York: CambridgeUniversity Press.Marchionini, G., & Komlodi, A.
(1998) Design ofinterfaces for information seeking.
In ARIST 33,1998 Annual Review of Information Science andTechnology (pp.
89-130).
Medford, NJ: Informa-tion Today.McCarthy, J.
& Buvac, S. (1993) Notes on formal-izing context.
Proceedings of IJCAI?93 (pp.555?560).
Chambery, France.
http://www-for-mal.stanford.edu/jmc/context3/context3.htmlNorman, D. A.
& Draper, S. W.
(eds.).
(1986)User-centered system design.
London: Erlbaum.Scriven, M. (1967).
The methodology of evalua-tion.
In R. Tyler, R. Gagne & M. Scriven, (Eds.
)Perspectives of curriculum evaluation.
(pp.
39-83).
Chicago: Rand McNally.
Strzalkowski, T.,Stein, G. , Wang, J.
& Wise,  B.
(1999).
A robustpractical text summarizer.
In I. Mani and M.Maybury (eds), Advances in automated textsummarization.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,137?154.White, R., Ruthven, I.
& Jose, J. M. (2001).
Webdocument summarisation: a task-oriented evalua-tion.
International Workshop on Digital Libraries.Proc.
of the 12th International Database and Ex-pert Systems Applications Conference (DEXA2001).
Munich.
http://www.cs.strath.ac.uk/~ir/papers/
