Contrast And Variability In Gene NamesK.
Bretonnel CohenCenter for Computational PharmacologyUniversity of Colorado Health Sciences Centerkevin.cohen@uchsc.eduAndrew E. DolbeyCenter for Computational PharmacologyUniversity of Colorado Health Sciences Centerandrew.dolbey@uchsc.eduGeorge K. Acquaah-MensahCenter for Computational PharmacologyUniversity of Colorado Health Sciences Centergeorge.acquaah-mensah@uchsc.eduLawrence HunterCenter for Computational PharmacologyUniversity of Colorado Health Sciences Centerlarry.hunter@uchsc.eduAbstractWe studied contrast and variability ina corpus of gene names to identifypotential heuristics for use inperforming entity identification in themolecular biology domain.
Based onour findings, we developed heuristicsfor mapping weakly matching genenames to their official gene names.We then tested these heuristics againsta large body of Medline abstracts, andfound that using these heuristics canincrease recall, with varying levels ofprecision.
Our findings alsounderscored the importance of goodinformation retrieval and of the abilityto disambiguate between genes,proteins, RNA, and a variety of otherreferents for performing entityidentification with high precision.1 IntroductionAlmost all current approaches to entityidentification are actually not tackling theidentification per se, but rather merely the (stilldifficult) location of named entities in text.
Thedifference between these is that entity locationconsists of the (difficult enough) task ofdemarcation of the boundaries of names in text,whereas entity identification consists of thesame thing, plus mapping the located names tothe canonical entities that they refer to.
In thispaper we present data on variability in theorthographic representation of gene names, andthen show how knowledge about that variabilitycan be used for heuristics that increase recall inthe entity identification task.
(We use the term"gene name" as shorthand for "gene, protein, orRNA name.
")To understand why it is important to be ableto map located names to the canonical entitiesthat they refer to, consider the outcome ofrunning an information extraction routine withaccess only to entity location against ahypothetical document about rat somatotropin.It contains the synonymous names ratsomatotropin, somatotropin, and growthhormone, all of which refer to the samebiomolecule, whose canonical name we willassume to be somatotropin.
(The document ishypothetical; somatotropin and its synonyms arenot.)
Suppose that the paper includes threeseparate assertions, of the form somatotropin isupregulated by X, transcription of ratsomatotropin is blocked by Y, and growthhormone is expressed by cells of type Z.  Thesystem correctly extracts three assertions, butincorrectly attributes them to three separatebiomolecules, only one of which is the canonicalform.
Now consider the outcome of running aninformation extraction routine with access toentity identification against the same document.Again, the system extracts three assertions, butthis time all three assertions are correctlyattributed to the same biomolecule, i.e.somatotropin.
Krauthammer et al (2000), whoare arguably the only researchers who haveattempted to do actual identification as weAssociation for Computational Linguistics.the Biomedical Domain, Philadelphia, July 2002, pp.
14-20.Proceedings of the Workshop on Natural Language Processing indefine it, have noted that while it is possible torecognize gene names in the face of variability,it remains difficult to map the recognized namesto their canonical referents.
They point out thatheuristics might be helpful in doing this.We studied variability in gene names withan eye toward finding such heuristics.
Our goalwas to differentiate between kinds of variabilitythat tend to differentiate between names withdifferent referents, e.g.
aha vs. aho or ACE1 vs.ACE2, as opposed to kinds of variability thatonly differentiate between synonyms that sharea referent, such as tumour protein homologueand tumor protein homolog or ACE and ACE1.We then use data on contrast and variability tosuggest our heuristics.
The idea behind usingsuch heuristics is that an identified entity insome text that differs minimally from thecanonical name for some entity can be mappedto that canonically-labelled entity if suchmapping is allowed by some heuristic.We use the term contrast to describe or referto dimensions or features which can be used todistinguish between two samples of naturallanguage with different meaning.
Issues ofcontrast versus variability can be discussed withreference to individual characters or sequencesof characters, or with reference to more abstractfeatures, such as orthographic case.
In themolecular biology domain, we will say thatsome feature is contrastive if it encodes thedifference between the names of two differentgenes.
In other words, contrasts occur inter-entity.
We will say that some feature is(noncontrastively) variable if it differs merelybetween synonyms; in other words, variabilityoccurs within members of a synonym set.We can trivially identify the contrastbetween BRCA1 vs. MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence C, or between sonic hedgehogvs.
eyeless.
What we are really interested in isminimally different tuples?sets that differ withrespect to only one feature.
For instance, wewould want to look at BRCA1 and BRCA2,which differ with respect to whether thecharacter at the right edge is 1 or 2, or estrogenreceptor beta and oestrogen receptor beta,which differ with respect to the presence orabsence of an o at the left edge.
Ideally, then,we are looking for sets of names that differ onlyby a single unit.
However, the size and scope ofthe unit needs further discussion.
When dealingwith written language, the unit of concern willusually be the grapheme.
A grapheme may beas small as a single character, but may also beconsiderably longer, e.g.
the sequence ough indough or through.
In this study, we consideredgraphemes longer than a single character only inthe case of vowels.
Sometimes we will want toconsider tuples that differ with respect to stringsthat are considerably larger than a grapheme,such as a word, or a string of parenthesizedmaterial; this will be discussed further in thefirst Methods section.
The issue of tuple sizewill be discussed there, as well.22.1 CorpusMethods I: Investigatingdimensions of contrast andvariabilityWe examined a large corpus of gene names andof synonyms for those gene names to determinewhat sorts of features are contrastive in genenames, and what sorts of features can varywithout affecting the referential status of a genename.
The corpus was derived from theLocusLink LL_tmpl file (the version on theLocusLink download site at 2:32 p.m. on Sept.13, 2001), available by ftp fromftp://ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
This is aneasily readable dump of LocusLink, which?provides a single query interface to curatedsequence and descriptive information aboutgenetic loci.
It presents information on officialnomenclature, aliases, sequence accessions,phenotypes, EC numbers, MIM numbers,UniGene clusters, homology, map locations, andrelated web sites?
(www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/locuslink).We then pulled out the names and synonyms forall LocusLink entries for the species Musmusculus, Rattus norvegicus, and Homosapiens.
We took the fields labelled asOFFICIAL GENE NAME, PREFERREDGENE NAME, OFFICIAL SYMBOL,PREFERRED SYMBOL, PRODUCT,PREFERRED PRODUCT, ALIAS SYMBOL,and ALIAS PROT.
Some genes were unnamed,and these were excluded from the analysis.
Toour surprise, we also found that some genenames were duplicated within the same genome--e.g., in the M. musculus genome, there are twogenes named reciprocal translocation, Ch4 6and 7, Adler 17; we filtered out duplicate namesand excluded them, as well.
This left 42,608genes for the mouse, 4457 for the rat, and25,915 for the human.
For each organism, wecreated one file containing just gene names, andfor each organism we created a set of filescontaining all gene names and their synonyms.For the gene name file, we used just those fieldslabelled OFFICIAL GENE NAME orPREFERRED GENE NAME; for the combinedname/synonym files, we used all of the fieldsgiven above.2.22.32.42.5Finding contrasts in the corpusFor each species, we pulled out a list of allnames that were indicated as OFFICIAL GENENAME or PREFERRED GENE NAME in theLL_tmpl file.
Each name in this file representsa different gene.
We examined the names in thissingle large file for contrastive differences.Finding noncontrastive variabilityin the corpusFor each species, for each gene, we pulled outthe list of all names that were indicated by anyof the set of labels listed above, and stored themseparately.
With each of the many resultingfiles (one per gene), we examined the small setof synonymous names for noncontrastivevariability.Finding minimal tuplesThe most obvious way to find minimal tupleswould be to first determine the minimum editdistance between all pairs of gene names, andthen select all pairs with minimum edit distancebelow some cutoff value.
However, thisapproach would suffer from two obvious flaws.The first flaw is that it is computationallyexpensive, since it is a O(n2)-complex problem.The second flaw is that it is ineffective.
It onlyyields tuples of size 2, but in fact sets ofminimally differing gene names occur in sets ofsize 3, 4, 5, and even considerably larger, e.g.the three-member set conserved sequence blockI, conserved sequence block II, and conservedsequence block III.
We chose an alternativeapproach to the problem of finding minimaltuples.
It consists of the following steps:For each gene name transform the gene name to some reducedform using the reduced form as the key in a hashof keys  lists, add the full form to a list offull forms from which that reduced formwas derivedFor each key in the hash retrieve the list of names that is mapped toby that key if the list of names pointed to by that keyhas more than one element, report the listFor example, if the input is the list of genenames gamma-glutamyltransferase 1, gamma-glutamyltransferase 2, gamma-glutamyltransferase 3, matrix metalloproteinase23A, matrix metalloproteinase 23B, and acrosin,and the transformation that is being applied toeach name consists of deletion of the lastcharacter, then the output will be two lists of > 1element pointed to by gamma-glutamyltransferase and matrixmetalloproteinase 23, and one list of a singleelement, acrosin.
The two lists with > 1element would be reported as minimal tuples.TransformationsWe applied four transformations designed toinvestigate syntagmatic, or positional, effects.These consisted of removing the first character,the first word, the last character, and the lastword.We applied four transformations designed toinvestigate paradigmatic, or content-based,effects.
These consisted of mapping vowelsequences to a constant string (the purpose ofthis being to look at American vs. Britishdialectal differences in gene names);replacement of hyphens with spaces; removal ofparenthesized material; and normalization ofcase.
These relatively simple transformationsmiss a number of categories of differencesbetween gene names, e.g.
single-characterdifferences in non-edge positions, such as 0BETA-1 GLOBIN vs. 0 BETA-2 GLOBIN;single-word differences in non-edge positions,such as DOPAMINE D1A RECEPTOR vs.DOPAMINE D2 RECEPTOR; proper substringrelationships, such as EYE vs. EYE2; andinteractions between the features that we didexamine, such as calsequestrin 1 (fast-twitch,skeletal muscle) vs. calsequestrin 2 (cardiacmuscle), which is not found by any one heuristicbut would be found by the combination of theparenthesized-material transformation followedby either of the right-edge transformations.Nonetheless, they seem like a reasonablestarting point.Results I 3Table 1 and Graphs 1, 2, 3, and 4 summarize ourfindings on contrast and variability in genenames.One surprising finding was that everyparadigmatic dimension of contrast that weexamined turned out to be contrastive in at leastsome very small number of cases.
We did notexpect hyphenation to ever be contrastive, butfound that within the H. sapiens genome, thetwo genes at LocusLink ID's 51086 and 112858differ in just that feature, having the namesputative protein-tyrosine kinase and putativeprotein tyrosine kinase, respectively.
The twogenes at LocusLink ID's 51251 and 90859 differin the same way, being named uridine 5'-monophosphate hydrolase 1 and uridine 5'monophosphate hydrolase 1, respectively.Graph 1.
Hyphenation: contrast andvariability0780 04100050100150Contrastive SynonymousNames mouserathumanGraph 2.
Case: contrast andvariability1327384804520100200300400500600700800900Contrastive SynonymousNames mouserathumanDOC S Contrastive(i.e., names)%N Variable(i.e.,synonyms)LMC M 4 .009 72R 4 0.090 801H 2 0.008 123LMW M 2556 5.999 135R 836 18.757 759H 4013 15.485 258RMC M 15540 36.472 360R 687 15.414 49H 8684 33.510 921RMW M 22290 52.314 191R 940 21.090 25H 11627 44.866 675VS M 7 0.016 37R 0 0.000 4H 4 0.015 30HYPH M 0 0.000 78R 0 0.000 0H 4 0.015 100CASE M 1 0.002 327R 3 0.067 848H 0 0.000 452PM M 14 0.033 102R 13 0.292 25H 51 0.197 526Table 1.
Contrastive and noncontrastivevariability in gene names.
?Percentage?columns give percentage of total namesconsidered for that species, rounded to threedecimal places.
DOC = dimension ofcontrast, L/RMC = left/right-most char,L/RMW = left/right-most word, VS = vowelsequences, HYPH = hyphenation, CASE =case, PM = parenthesized material.
S =species, M = mouse, R = rat, H = human.
%N= contrastive names as percentage of totalnames for that species.We did not expect case ever to be contrastive,but found that within the R. norvegicus genome,the two genes at LocusLink ID's 24969 and83789 differ with respect to just that feature,having the names Ribosomal protein S2 andribosomal protein S2, respectively.
The twogenes at LocusLink ID's 56764 and 65028 differin the same way, having the names dnaj-likeprotein and DnaJ-like protein.
As Graphs 1 and2 show, these contrasts were not common, butwe were surprised to observe them at all.
(In considering these findings, it should benoted that these results are specific to aparticular version of LocusLink.
We wereinterested in the extent to which theseunexpected minimal pairs might be erroneous,so we examined the corresponding LOCUSID?sin a subsequent revision of the file from severalmonths later (May 1, 2002, 10:21 a.m.).
Wefound that some of these entries had beencombined, and some had been assigned anOFFICIAL_GENE_NAME, but others wereunchanged, and so while we cannot eliminatethe possibility that they are in error and have justmanaged to elude the editing process thus far, itis certainly the case that these anomalouscontrasts continue to exist in the database, andwe have no reason to assume that such nameswill not continue to be entered into the database,erroneously or otherwise, and therefore itbehooves us to consider their implications forentity identification.
)Graph 3.
Parenthesized material:contrast and variability1410213 25515260100200300400500600Contrastive SynonymousNames mouserathumanWe found marked edge effects.
Contrastsare much more likely to be marked at the nameboundary than are noncontrastive differences.There is a marked asymmetry in thedirectionality of the location of contrastivedifferences: they are much more likely to appearat the right edge of the word than at the left edgeof the word.
There are also marked intra-speciesdifferences.
For example, although large edgeeffects are obvious for names (as opposed tosynonyms) in the mouse and human genomes,they are not in the rat genome.
In interpretingvariability, it will likely be helpful to have someawareness of what species is being discussed.Graph 4.
Edge effects:contrastive on left,synonymous on right0500010000150002000025000LcharLwordRcharRwordLcharLwordRcharRwordNames mouserathuman4 Methods II: Testing theheuristicsThese findings suggested a set of heuristics forallowing weakened pattern matches on genenames.
The heuristics are stated astransformations applied to regular expressionsrepresenting gene names to generate new regularexpressions for the same gene names, but theheuristics can be applied in other ways as well,e.g.
by grammar-based generation of alternateforms.
The heuristics are listed below:1.
Equivalence of vowel sequences: for anyregular expression representing a gene name,substitute the regular expression formed byreplacing all vowel sequences with one or moreof any vowel.2.
Optionality of hyphens: for any regularexpression representing a gene name, substitutethe regular expression formed by replacingevery hyphen with the disjunction of a hyphenor a space.3.
Optionality of parenthesized material: for anyregular expression representing a gene name,substitute the regular expression formed bymaking any paired parentheses and the materialthey enclose (and surrounding whitespace, asappropriate) optional.4.
Case insensitivity: for any regular expression,apply it case-insensitively.To evaluate the extent to which each ofthese heuristics led to increased entityrecognition, we ran our heuristics against a largebody of Medline abstracts.
We counted thenumber of entities that were found by an exactpattern match to a LocusLink name, and countedthe number of additional names that were foundby each heuristic.
Although none of ourheuristics specifically addressedmorphologically-induced variability, we alsoadded a search for pluralized gene names, sothat we could compare the extent to whichrecognition of plurals improved recall to theextent to which our heuristics improved recall.5 Results IITable 2 shows the results.
As intuition wouldsuggest, all heuristics were effective in locatingmore names than strict pattern matches alone.For example, optional hyphenation heuristicallowed the official gene name alpha-2-macroglobulin to find a match in Moreover, C5aalso enhanced transcription of the gene for thetype-2 acute phase protein alpha 2-macroglobulin n HC indirectly by increasingLPS-dependent IL-6 release from KC.names located by strict pattern matching 1846Additional names located by vowelsequence heuristic matches586Additional names located by optionalhyphen heuristic matches37Additional names located by caseinsensitive heuristic matches864Additional names located by optionalparentheses heuristic matches432Additional names located by pluralmatches87Table 2.
Names found by strict patternmatch, heuristics, and plurals.However, we were concerned about thepossibility of poor precision, i.e.
false-positives.For this reason, we ran our heuristics against thesame body of Medline abstracts, then randomlyselected up to 100 tokens of gene namessuggested by each heuristic  (some found lessthan 100 tokens in our corpus--see Table 2above).
We labelled each putative gene namewith the canonical gene name that we believed itto refer to, and then asked a subject matterexpert to evaluate whether the gene names thatwe had identified were or were not the genenames that we believed them to be.
The expertwas presented with a three-way forced-choiceparadigm, the options being yes, no, and can'ttell.
It seemed useful to be able to compare theprecision of our technique with the incidence offalse positives from strict pattern matches, so theexpert was also presented with a number ofstrict matches (i.e., not identified by ourheuristics) to evaluate, in a quantity roughlyequivalent to the number of heuristically-suggested names that they were asked toevaluate.
Table 3 shows the results.condition totaltokensmarkedyesmarkednomarked?can?ttell?percentagefalsepositive((can?t tell+ no) totaltokens) x100Vowelseq.100 15 81 4 85.0Hyph.
37 34 0 3 8.1Caseinsens.97 72 20 5 25.8Paren.Material99 93 0 6 6.1Plurals 86 75 8 3 12.8Strictpatternmatch500 425 40 35 15.0Table 3.
False positives.We note the following:1.
Even strict pattern matches and forms thatvary only with respect to inflectionalmorphology (i.e., the plurals) yield a nontrivialpercentage of false positives?a percentagewhich is actually higher than two of ourheuristics (optionality of hyphenation andoptionality of parenthesized material).2.
Two of our heuristics (equivalence of vowelsequences and case insensitivity) yieldedunexpectedly high rates of false positives.
Thevowel sequence heuristic can probably be madeto yield a lower rate by fine-tuning it.
Forexample, false positives from this heuristic canbe reduced by disregarding any weak matchesthat come from one or more name-final upper-case I?s, since these are commonly used in genenames to form Roman numerals.
The high falsepositive rate of the case insensitivity heuristic isunexpected, and will be investigated further.6 ConclusionsEntity identification is a difficult task whosesuccess is partly dependent on performance inother tasks, including disambiguation andinformation retrieval.
Disambiguation of theactual referent of an apparent gene or proteinname is even more important than one mightexpect.
Hatzivassiloglou et al (2001) points outthe benefits and the difficulties inherent indistinguishing between genes, proteins, andRNA; we found that it was also important todifferentiate between genes, proteins, RNA, andreceptors, promoters, antagonists, domains, andbinding sites, as well as diseases, syndromes,conditions, phenotypes, and mutants, as all ofthese were noted by our subject-matter expert assources of false positives.
Good informationretrieval is clearly also a prerequisite for high-precision entity identification.
In some cases,false positives arose when (abstracts of)irrelevant documents were used as input.Heuristics can be useful tools for increasingrecall in entity identification, as well as forhelping us ensure that we are performing trueentity identification, as opposed to entitylocation.
Tanabe and Wilbur (in press) point outthe value of combining knowledge sources inthe entity identification task; our heuristics seemespecially promising in part because they arebased on a combination of two sources: (1) theexpertise of NLP application developers aboutthe sorts of variability that need to be dealt within NLP systems (e.g.
in text normalization), and(2) on empirical data about variability in thenames themselves.
Future work shouldconcentrate on three areas.
The first isextending our study of variability to includeother dimensions of contrast, such as the onesthat we point out that our study ignored, so thatwe can increase the inventory of heuristics.
Thesecond is integrating our heuristics with asystem that identifies weak matches with genenames, i.e.
candidates for application of theheuristics.
The third is elucidating the place oforthographic variability within all causes ofpattern match failure.ReferencesHatzivassiloglou, Vasileios; Pablo A.Duboue; and Andrey Rzhetsky (2001).Disambiguating proteins, genes, and RNA intext: a machine learning approach.Bioinformatics 17, Suppl.
1: S97-S106.Krauthammer, Michael; Andrey Rzhetsky;Pavel Morozov; and Carol Friedman (2000).Using BLAST for identifying gene and proteinnames in journal articles.
Gene 259:245-252.Tanabe, Lorraine and W. John Wilbur (inpress).
Tagging gene and protein names inbiomedical text.
Bioinformatics.
