An Experiment to Evaluate the Effectiveness of Cross-Media Cues inComputer MediaNancy GreenDepartment of Mathematical Sciences383 Bryan BuildingUniversity of North Carolina GreensboroGreensboro, NC 27402nlgreen@uncg.eduAbstractWe present the motivation for anddesign of an experiment to evaluatethe usefulness of cross-media cues,phrases such as 'See Figure 1'.1 IntroductionAuthors of English-language print documentscontaining both text and graphics traditionallyhave used phrases such as 'See Figure 1'.Intuitively, these cross-media cues (CMCs)help the print reader to integrate informationpresented in different media, i.e., printed textand printed graphics.
We are investigatinghow, if at all, these cues should be used inpresentations delivered in computer mediasuch as web pages.
Our long-term goal is todevelop a non-application-specificcomputational model for the decision of whento direct the reader's attention to relatedgraphics, what kinds of things to say aboutthem, and where to place the cross-media cuesin the text.For exploratory purposes, we previouslyperformed an informal corpus study of the useof cross-media cues in arguments (Green2001).
However, we contend that print-media-based corpus studies may not provide soundinformation on which to base a model for on-screen presentations.
Human-computerinteraction (HCI) studies have shown that thereare significant differences between readingfrom print and computer media, e.g., thatreading from screen is slower andcomprehension is worse (Dillon, 1992; Muter,1996).
Thus, as an alternative to corpusanalysis we have begun controlled user studiesemploying "throwaway" prototypes.
In thispaper, we present the design and preliminaryresults of an experiment on effective cross-media cue usage in computer media.2     Related Work2.1     Computational linguisticsCross-media cues are similar in some respectsto discourse cue phrases.
First, some functionsof cross-media cues can be classified usingdiscourse coherence relations such asPreparation, Restatement, Summary,Evaluation, and Elaboration (Green, 2001).Second, there is not a one-to-onecorrespondence between form and function.For example, the same CMC can be used toindicate different coherence relations betweena span of text and the named figure, e.g.,Restatement and Evaluation.
On the otherhand, a relation of Summary can be indicated,for example,  by 'From Fig.
9.5, you can seethat' or '(see Figure 4)'.
Another similarity isthat CMCs are not always provided to markexplicitly the relationship obtaining betweentext and graphic.
Research on discourse cueplacement has framed our thinking on askingwhen and where to generate CMCs(DiEugenio, Moore and Paolucci, 1997).A multimedia presentation may includemultimodal referring expressions, references tothings in the world made through acombination of text and graphics (McKeown etal., 1992; Andr?
and Rist, 1994).
Such cross-references are similar to cross-media cues inthat they direct the user's attention to a relatedgraphic.
However, their function is different,namely, to enable the user to perform referenceresolution.
Another form of cross-reference,discourse deixis is the use of an expression thatrefers to part of the document containing it,e.g., 'the next chapter' (Paraboni and vanPhiladelphia, July 2002, pp.
42-45.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Proceedings of the Third SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue,Deemter, 1999).
Although a user'sinterpretation of a cross-media cue maydepend on discourse deixis to determine thegraphic in question, the problem of selectingan appropriate description to refer to a graphic(e.g.
'Figure 4' versus 'the Figure below') isnot a concern of our work at present.In our previous corpus study of multimediaarguments, we classified text in a document aseither argument-bearing or commentary-bearing, where the latter is text about a graphicincluded in the document (Green 2001).
Thetopics of commentary-bearing text include thegraphic's role in the argument (e.g.
'From Fig.9.5, you can see that'), the interpretation ofgraphical elements in terms of the underlyingdomain and data, and salient visual features ofthe graphic.
Furthermore, we noted thatcommentary-bearing and argument-bearingtext may be interleaved, and that the ratio ofthe number of sentences of commentary totheir related CMC may be many to one.Previous work in caption generation isrelevant to the question of what kinds of thingsto say about accompanying graphics (Mittal etal., 1998; Fasciano and Lapalme, 1999).However, neither of those systems face theproblem of integrating commentary-bearingtext with text generated to achieve otherpresentation goals.2.2    Human-Computer InteractionHCI research has focused on interactiontechniques and features of layout that influenceeffectiveness.
Use of contact points, controlbuttons in text on a web page that enablereaders to control related animations (Faradayand Sutcliffe, 1999), is an interactiontechnique that, like CMCs, explicitly marks therelationship between information presented intwo media.
That paper provides experimentalevidence that contact points improvecomprehension of integrated text andanimation.According to Moreno and Mayer's SpatialContiguity Principle (2000), learning inmultimedia presentations is improved whenrelated text and graphics are spatiallycontiguous rather than separated.
However,this does not imply that instead of providingCMCs a generator can rely on layout alone, forthe following reasons.
First, a generator mayhave responsibility for producing text but nothave control over layout, e.g.
when adocument is displayed by a web browser.Second, a graphic may be relevant to multiplenon-contiguous spans of text in a document.3 Experiment3.1    OverviewAs a first step, we must address a basicquestion: is it ever worthwhile to generatecross-media cues in computer presentations?Thus we designed a between-groupsexperiment (Lewis & Rieman, 1994) to testwhether performance on tasks requiring asubject to skim for information presented intext and graphics via a web browser wouldbenefit from the inclusion of cross-media cuesin the text.
Skimming, defined as "movingrapidly through text to locate specificinformation or gain the gist", is a type ofreading strategy often used by readers of webpages (Dyson and Haselgrove 2001).Each of the three groups of subjectsreceives a different version of a presentationconsisting of four articles.
Each article fills a19 inch computer screen and consists of a shorttext followed by several figures withinformation graphics such as line graphs andbar charts.
The graphics are arranged in a rownear the bottom of the screen so that the cost tothe user of looking up and down between textand graphics is the same for each figure.Multiple figures are provided so that the readeris required to determine which figure isrelevant to the task.In version 1, the layout of each articleconsists of text containing no cross-media cuesfollowed by the figures.
A short caption isgiven under each graphic.
In version 2, thecaption text has been removed from the figuresand integrated into the paragraph of text abovethe figures, i.e., it now functions ascommentary text.
Version 3 is identical toversion 2 except that for each figure a cross-media cue of the form 'See Figure n.' has beeninserted in the text; the CMC is insertedfollowing the commentary created from thecorresponding caption in Version 1.Version 1 represents the case where it isfeasible to design the layout so that textcommenting upon a figure can be placed inproximity to the figure (i.e.
maximizingadherence to the Spatial Contiguity Principle).We assume that task performance will be bestfor version 1 and include it in the experimentto provide a baseline.
The main point of theexperiment, however, is to compareperformance on version 2 with performance onversion 3.
Then, if performance on version 3is better, we have shown that CMCs can beuseful to readers performing a similar task.3.2    Experimental DesignThe independent variable is the version of thearticle that is presented.
The three versions areconstructed by varying layout and presence ofcross media cue phrases as described above.The dependent variables are the time tocomplete the tests (Time) and score on the tests(Score).
Time and Score are comparedbetween groups.3.3    ParticipantsThe participants (subjects) are undergraduatecollege students.
The participants are randomlyassigned to one of three groups.
Each group istested on a different version of the samearticles.
Information about college major andexperience using computers is collected via ashort questionnaire before the experiment.3.4    MaterialsEach article was constructed by theexperimenter by selecting an excerpt from apublished source; the sources of the fourarticles represent different genre, topics,layouts, and audiences.
(We chose to useexcerpts rather than authoring our own articlesto avoid experimenter bias.)
The excerpts areapproximately the same word-length and,except for the first article, which is used forpractice and only includes two figures, eachexcerpt includes three figures.
The layout wasmodified by the experimenter to createversions 1 through 3.
Other differences inpresentation (e.g., line length, color scheme,font style, and font size) between differentversions of the same article and betweenarticles were minimized as much as possible.The multiple choice test for each articleconsists of one question asking the subject toidentify one of the main points of thepresentation, and three questions asking thesubject to identify where in the presentationcertain facts were given.
For the identificationquestions the subject is asked to select one ormore of the following choices: in the text, inthe graph in Figure 1, in the graph in Figure 2,in the graph in Figure 3, or none of the above.3.5    ProcedureEach participant is given a series of four testsdisplayed on a desktop PC with a 19 inch colormonitor.
The first test is used as a practice testand data collected from it will not be used.
Thetest series is implemented by a computerprogram written in HTML and Javascript thatis run by a web browser.
Scrolling is disabledthroughout the test series.
The first screen ofeach test presents an article; the next screencontains the four test questions describedabove.
The participant is free to move backand forth between the article and the testquestion screen for it by usingForward/Backward buttons, but cannot see thearticle and test question screens at the sametime.
The participant cannot go back toprevious tests, and is not allowed to go on tothe next test until he or she has answered allquestions on the current test and has confirmedthat he or she is ready to go on to the next test.The participant answers the test questionsusing the computer mouse.
The programrecords the participant's answers and timesautomatically.
Subjects are not told that theirtask time is being measured.3.6  Status of WorkWe have finished running the pilot version ofthe experiment and are currently running themain experiment.
It is interesting that in thepost-experiment questionnaire, some subjectswho have received version 2 have commentedthat references to the figures (i.e.
CMCs)would have been helpful.4 DiscussionWe have presented the motivation for anddesign of an experiment to evaluate theusefulness of cross-media cues in multimediapresentations shown on computer screens.
Infuture work, we plan to investigate questionsof cross-media cue placement, e.g., whether toinsert a CMC before or after commentaryabout the named figure.
An interestingquestion is whether CMC placement should beinfluenced by discourse structure.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Jennifer Brooks of the University ofNorth Carolina at Greensboro for herimplementation of much of the Javascriptprograms used in the experiment and forrunning an initial group of subjects through it.ReferencesE.
Andr?
and T. Rist.
1994..
Referring toWorld Objects with Text and Pictures.COLING-94, 530-534.A.
Dillon.
1992.
Reading from paper versusscreens: a critical review of the empiricalliterature.
Ergonomics, 35, 1297-1326.M.C.
Dyson and M. Haselgrove.
2001.
Theinfluence of reading speed and line length onthe effectiveness of reading from screen.International Journal of Human-ComputerStudies, 54, 585-612.Barbara Di Eugenio, Johanna D. Moore,Massimo Paolucci.
1997.
Learning Featuresthat Predict Cue Usage, Proceedings 35thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics.P.
Faraday and A. Sutcliffe.
1999.
AuthoringAnimated Web Pages Using 'Contact Points',in Proceedings of CHI '99, 458-465.M.
Fasciano and G. Lapalme.
1999.Intentions in the coordinated generation ofgraphics and text from tabular  data.Knowledge and Information Systems, Oct1999.N.
Green.
2001.
An Empirical Study ofMultimedia Argumentation.
Proceedings ofthe International Conference onComputational Systems, Workshop onComputational Models of Natural LanguageArguments, May 2001.
Springer Lecture Notesin Computer Science 2073, pp.
1009-18.Lewis & Rieman.
1994.
Lewis, C. andRieman, R. Task-Centered User InterfaceDesign: A Practical Introduction.[ftp://ftp.cs.colorado.edu]K.
R. McKeown, S. K. Feiner, J. Robin, D.D.Seligmann, and M. Tanenblatt.
1992.Generating Cross-References for MultimediaExplanation.
Proceedings of AAAI, 9-16.V.
Mittal, J. Moore, G. Carenini, and S.Roth.
1998.
Describing Complex Charts inNatural Language: A Caption GenerationSystem.
Computational.
Linguistics, Vol.24,  issue 3, (1998), 431-467.R.
Moreno and R. Mayer.
2000.
A Learner-Centered Approach to MultimediaExplanations: Deriving Instructional DesignPrinciples from Cognitive Theory, InteractiveMultimedia Electronic Journal of Computer-Enhanced Learning.P.
Muter.
1996.
Interface design andoptimization of reading of continuous text.
InH.
Van Oostendorp and S. DeMul (eds.
)Cognitive Aspects of Electronic TextProcessing, pp.
161-180.I.
Paraboni and K. van Deemter.
1999.
Issuesfor the Generation of Document Deixis.
InAndr?
et al (Eds.
),  Deixis, Demonstrationand Deictic Belief in Multimedia Contexts,Proceedings of the Workshop associated withthe 11th European Summer School in Logic,Language and Information (ESSLLI),Utrecht, The Netherlands, 1999, pp.
43-48.
