Complex structuring of term variants for Question AnsweringJames Dowdall, Fabio RinaldiInstitute of Computational LinguisticsUniversity of Zurichfdowdall,rinaldig@cl.unizh.chFidelia Ibekwe-SanJuanERSICOUniversity of Lyon3ibekwe@univ-lyon3.frEric SanJuanLITA EA3097University of Metzeric.sanjuan@iut.univ-metz.frAbstractQuestion Answering provides a method oflocating precise answers to specic ques-tions but in technical domains the amountof Multi-Word Terms complicates this task.This paper outlines the Question Answer-ing task in such a domain and explores twoways of detecting relations between Multi-Word Terms.
The rst targets specic se-mantic relations, the second uses a cluster-ing algorithm, but they are both based onthe idea of syntactic variation.
The pa-per demonstrates how the combination ofthese two methodologies provide sophisti-cated access to technical domains.1 IntroductionNominal compounds are inherently ambiguous onboth the syntactic and semantic fronts.
Whilst thenumber of syntactic possibilities increase exponen-tially with word length (Isabelle, 1984), semantic in-terpretation is at best contextually dependent and inthe worst cases determined by extra-linguistic (prag-matic) factors.1Technical documentation is an at-tractive domain in which to explore nominal com-pounds for two reasons.
First, they present an abun-dance of compounds, secondly they restrict semanticinterpretation by excluding compounds with opaque(extra-linguistic) interpretation.
The result is multi-word terms (MWT) which are both compositional,their formation is a function of their constituent ele-ments (Kageura, 2002) and endocentric, the com-pound is a hyponym of its head (Barker and Sz-pakowicz, 1998).1For example, \apple juice place" (Levi, 1979)This paper addresses the issue of structuring theMulti-Word Terms (MWTs) for Question Answer-ing (QA) in technical domains.
The central prob-lem is that unfamiliarity with MWTs that character-ize such domains creates an eective barrier againstusers nding answers.Section 2 outlines the domain of focus, theMWT extraction method and examples character-istic MWTs.
Section 3 explores the QA task in tech-nical domains by describing the ExtrAns system,and how it structures the MWTs for the task.
Sec-tion 4 presents TermWatch which identies syntac-tic variants and uses a hierarchical clustering algo-rithm to build classes of term variants.
The commonground between these two approaches is in the useof syntactic variants to structure the terminology asa whole.
Section 5 explores how the resulting struc-tures can be used in the QA task.
After surveyingsome related work in Section 6 the paper ends bydrawing conclusions on the approaches presented.2 MWT ExtractionBefore the MWTs can be structured, the termsneed to be extracted from a corpus of texts.
Thisstage was performed using the INTEX linguisticparser (Silberztein, 1993).
INTEX is a nite statetransducer parser.
The corpus used in the presentstudy concerns scientic publications on the bread-making process.
It was made available by the FrenchInstitute of Scientic Information (INIST).
Withoutgoing into much detail regarding the candidate termextraction rules, the approach adopted can be sum-marized as selective NLP followed by shallow pars-ing, much in the same way as (Evans et al, 1992).We dened morpho-syntactic properties of complexnominal syntagms written as nite state automata,implemented in the INTEX linguistic toolbox.
IN-TEX is equipped with linguistic resources to performKnowledgeBaseDocumentLinguisticAnalysisMWTprocessing(a)OineKnowledgeBaseANSWERSQueryDocumentLinguisticAnalysisMWTRecognition(b)OnlineFigure 1: Schematic: ExtrAns Processing Stagesan overall morpho-syntactic analysis on the texts.The NP automata are applied in an iterative wayon the corpus until we reach a satisfactory medium-grained noun phrase splitting.
Our concern was toextract more or less complex terms as they appearedin the text corpus and not atomic NP extraction.The rationale was to conserve the associations be-tween terms as the scientists (authors) made themduring their write-up.
Examples of candidate termsextracted at this stage are: \hydrophilic powderedlecithin, traditional sour dough starter cultures, de-velopment of traditional breadavour".
More detailson the NP splitting rules can be found in (Ibekwe-SanJuan, 2001).
Manual validation by a domain ex-pert produced 3651 MWTs.3 ExtrAnsQuestion Answering systems attempt to extractsmall snippets of text in response to a natural lan-guage query.
Briey, ExtrAns achieves this in twodistinct stages:O-line the entire document collection is sub-jected to linguistic analysis, which produces a fullsyntactic parse for each sentence.
After some inter-mediate steps, such as anaphora resolution and dis-ambiguation, the syntactic parse is translated into asemantic representation designed to capture the coremeaning of the sentences.
These representations arestored in a Knowledge Base.On-line user queries are subjected to the samelinguistic analysis.
The resulting semantic rep-resentation of the query is `matched' against theknowledge base.
These `matches' can be identiedin their original document location, so users cancontextualize these potential answers.
Interest inthe specics of this process should be directedtoward (Rinaldi et al, 2002) (Dowdall et al, 2002).In dealing with technical domains we have iden-tied two major obstacles for a QA system whichcan be summarize as the Parsing Problem and theParaphrase Problem.The Parsing Problem consists in the increaseddi?culty of parsing text in a technical domain due todomain-specic sublanguage.
Various types of MWTcharacterize these domains, in particular referringto specic concepts like tools, parts or procedures.These multi word expressions might include lexicalitems which are either unknown to a generic lexicon(e.g.
\acetic acid") or have a specic meaning uniqueto this domain.
Abbreviations and acronyms are an-other common source of incosistencies.
In such casesthe parser might either fail to identify the compoundas a phrase and consequently fail to parse the sen-tence including such items.
Alternatively the parsermight attempt to `guess' their lexical category (inthe set of open class categories), leading to an ex-ponential growth of the number of possible syntacticparses.
Not only the internal structure of the com-pound can be multi-way ambiguous, even the bound-aries of the compounds might be di?cult to detectand the parsers might try odd combinations of thetokens belonging to the compounds with neighbour-ing tokens.The Paraphrase Problem resides in the imper-fect knowledge of users of the systems, who cannot beexpected to be completely familiar with the domainterminology.
Even experienced users, who know thedomain very well, might not remember the exactwording of a MWT and use a paraphrase to refer tothe underlying domain concept.
Besides even in thedocuments themselves, unless the editors have beenforced to use some strict terminology control system,various paraphrases of the same compound will ap-pear, and they need to be identied as co-referent.However, it is not enough to identify all paraphraseswithin the manual, novel paraphases might be cre-ated by the users each time they query the system.The task of QA in technical domains is to identify:`what' needs to be known about `which' multi-wordterm.
Then to extract sentences that provide theanswer.
How to nd the `what' is dependant on theapproach.
ExtrAns uses linguistic processing whichresults in a semantic representation.
However, inthe TREC domain of newswire, considerable successhas been achieved by statistical measures and evenpattern matching.
Here, these distinctions are unim-portant.What is of concern is in how to meet the two com-peting search needs of answering specic questionsand navigating through a domain of specialized, un-familiar MWTs.Designed specically for technical domains, Ex-trAns involves strategies for exploiting the abundantMWTs that these domains hold.
The approach uti-lizes WordNet to gather the MWTs into synonymysets based on variation rules.
The terminology is alsorelated through an hyponymy hierarchy.Synonymy between MWTs is either strict, ordetected through WordNet.
Strictly synonymousMWTs coreference a single object/concept.
Thislink is a result of morpho-syntactic variation taking\chemical improver action" and producing the anit-symmetrical term \action of chemical improver".The process simply involves inverting the Head andintroducing modiers with a preposition.WordNet synonymy, on the other hand, comes inthree types of symmetrical variation depending onwhich tokens from two MWTs can be found in thesame synset: WordNet Head substitution, (\bread ingestion"and \bread consumption") WordNet modier substitution (\quantity ofyeast" and \amount of yeast") WordNet Modier and head substitution (\keyingredient" and \functional component").However, synonymy identied through WordNet isdened by WordNet.
As a general lexical databasenot designed for specilized domains it representscommon synonymy between words.
The resultinglinks created between multi-word terms translatesinto concepts non-specialists cannot easily distin-guish.
These links produced 1277 synsets the vastmajority of which contain two MWTs.Hyponymy The MWTs are organized into a lex-ical hyponymy (is a) hierarchy that exploits theirendocentricity (Barker and Szpakowicz, 1998).
Thehyponymy relation is identied through two types ofrules, Left Expansions which further modies \doughstickiness" to be \intense" producing \intense doughstickiness".
Here the original head-modier rela-tions of the hypernym are unaltered in the hyponym.However, with Insertion rules these relations arestickinessdoughstickinesssurfacestickinessdoughincreasestickinesswheatdoughsurfacestickinessmeasuresurfacestickinessintensedoughstickinessdiminisheddoughstickinesswheatdoughstickinessFigure 2: Hyponymy Hierarchychanged in the potential hyponym.
For example,whatever is going on in \wheat dough stickiness", in-serting the word \surface" to produce \wheat doughsurface stickiness" has altered the original head-modier relations.
So a generic/specic relation isless certain.
For the moment such links are permit-ted.This process allows multiple parents for a giventerm.
So \wheat dough surface stickiness" is alsoa hyponym of \surface stickiness" through a left-expansion rule.
An example of this kind of hierarchycan be seen in gure 2.These two structures are exploited in the searchprocess during `matching' of queries against answers.The strengths they bring and the limitations imposedare explored in Section 5 after description of an al-ternative approach to term variant structuring.4 The TermWatch systemTermWatch (Ibekwe-SanJuan and SanJuan, 2003)clusters term variants into classes, thus producinga three-level structuring of terms: term, connectedcomponent and class levels.
It integrates a visualinterface developed with the Aisee graphic visualiza-tion to enable the user explore the classes and browsethrough the links between terms.
Earlier stages ofthis work were presented in (Ibekwe-SanJuan, 1998).The system comprises of two major modules: asyntactic variant identier and a clustering modulewhose results are loaded onto the Aisee visualizationtool.24.1 Variants identier moduleAutomatic term variant identication has been ex-tensively explored in (Jacquemin, 2001).
In the sec-tions below, we will recall briey the denitions ofthe variation types we identify and give exampleseach type.2http://www.aisee.com/Expansions are subdivided along the grammati-cal axis: those that aect the modier words in aterm and those that aect the head word.
Modierexpansions (L-Exp) describes two elementary op-erations: left-expansion (L-Exp) and Insertion (Ins).They both denote the addition at the leftmost po-sition (L-Exp) or inside a term (Insertion or Ins) ofnew modier elements.
For instance, \gas holdingproperty of dough" is a left-expansion of \gas holdingproperty" because by transformation to a nominalcompound structure, we obtain \dough gas holdingproperty".
Likewise, \bread dough quality character-istics" is an insertion variant (Ins) of \bread char-acteristics".
Head expansions (R-Exp) describesthe addition of one or more nominals in the head po-sition of a term, thus shifting the former headwordto a modier position.
Thus \frozen sweet doughbaking" is a R-Exp of \frozen sweet dough".
A com-bination of the two expansion types yield left-rightexpansion (LR-Exp) in that it describes addition ofwords both in the modier and head positions.
Forexample, the relation between \nonstarch polysac-charide" and \functional property of rye nonstarchpolysaccharide" (\rye nonstarch polysaccharide func-tional property").
These relations are constrained inthat the added or inserted words have to be con-tiguous, otherwise, we may not have the expectedsemantic relations.
Only nominal elements are con-sidered (nouns, adjectives).Substitutions are also dened along the gram-matical axis to yield two sub-types : modier andhead substitution.
Modier substitution (M-Sub)describes the replacing of one modier word in termt1by another word in term t2.
Thus \bread doughleavening" is a modier substitution (M-Sub) of\composite dough leavening".
Head substitution(H-Sub) relates terms which share the same modi-ers but dierent heads : \eect of xanthan gum"and \addition of xanthan gum".
These relationsare equally constrained in that they can only linkterms of equal length where one and only one itemis dierent, thus guaranteeing the interpretability ofthe relations.
Substitutions, since they denote non-directional relations between terms of equal length,engender symmetrical relations between terms on theformal level: t1t2.
Their transitive closure cre-ates classes of terms.
For instance, a set of termsrelated by modier substitution (M-Sub) seem topoint to a class of \properties/attributes" shared bya same concept (the head word) as in \bread texture,endosperm texture, good texture" for binary termsand \sour corn bread, sour dough bread, sour maizebread" for ternary terms.
In this last case, the chang-ing properties seem to point to the possible special-izations (\sour-") of the concept (\bread").
Headsubstitution on the other hand gathers together setsof terms that share the same \properties" (the mod-ier words), thus creating a class of \concepts".
Forinstance, the set of term variants \frozen dough bak-ing, frozen dough characteristics, frozen dough prod-ucts".
The common attribute is \frozen dough",shared by this class of concepts \products, char-acteristics, baking".
(Ibekwe-SanJuan, 1998) al-ready put forward the idea of these semantic rela-tions and (Jacquemin, 1995) reported similar con-ceptual relations for his insertion and coordinationvariants.4.2 Variant Clustering ModuleThe second module of TermWatch is a hierarchicalclustering algorithm, CPCL (Classication by Pref-erential Clustered Link), which clusters terms basedon the variations described above.
The six elemen-tary variation relations are represented as a di-graph.Clustering is a two-stage process.
First the algorithmbuilds connected components using a subset of thevariation relations, usually the modier relations (L-Exp, Ins, M-Sub), these are the COMP relations.The transitive closure COMP* of COMP partitionsthe whole set of terms into components.
These con-nected components are sub-graphs of term variantsthat share the same headword.
At the second stage,the connected components are clustered into classesusing the head relations (R-Exp, LR-Exp, H-sub),this subset of relations is called CLAS.
At this stage,components whose terms are in one of the CLAS re-lations are grouped basing on an edge dierentiationcoe?cient computed thus:dij=XR2CLASnR(i; j)jRjwhere CLAS is the set of binary head relations(Exp D, Exp GD, Sub C), and nR(i; j) is the num-ber of variants of type R between components i andj.
This coe?cient is higher when terms of two com-ponents share many CLAS relations of a rare typein the corpus.
Components with the highest dijareclustered rst.
The CPCL algorithm can be iteratedseveral times to suit the user's requirement or un-til it converges.
This means that the user is free toeither set the number of iterations or leave the algo-rithm to do all the iterations until convergence.
Theuser only has to specify which set of variations s/hewants to play the COMP and the CLAS role.
Intheory, this distinction is already made in the sys-tem but the user can change it.
On the linguisticComponent 1 component 2bromate measurement dough stickinessdough stickiness measurement diminished dough stickinessdough surface stickiness measurement dough increase stickinessstickiness measurement intense dough stickinessmeasure surface stickinesssoft red winter wheat lines dough stickinesssurface stickinesswheat dough stickinesswheat dough surface stickinessTable 1: Example of a class built by TermWatch.level, a class contains at least two connected com-ponents, each comprising of sets of term variantsaround the same head word.
Class here should beunderstood in a formal way: it corresponds to group-ings of connected components resulting from a hier-archical clustering algorithm.
They are not strictlydened semantically.
Although, we nd semanti-cally related terms within these classes, the exactsemantic relations involved between pairs of termsare not explicitly tagged.
So on the semantic level,a class here comprises subsets of term variants re-ecting, \class of" relations (engendered by substitu-tions) and \hypernym/hyponym" relations (engen-dered by modier expansions).
For instance, Table1 displays the term variants found in one class.This class was built around two components, onestructured around the concept of \stickiness mea-surement" (most frequent repeated segment) and theother around the concept of \dough stickiness".
Wecan observe the COMP relations between term vari-ants inside each component.
The variants that ini-tiated this class formation are in italics (the onessharing CLAS relations).The TermWatch programs have been implementedin the AWK language and can run on a Unix orWindows system.
The system is computationallytractable and processing time is quite acceptable forreal-life applications.
For instance, it took 40 sec-onds on a normal PC running Windows to process agraph of 3651 term variants and to load the resultsonto the Aisee graphic interface.
33 classes of vari-able sizes were produced at the 3rd iteration of theclustering algorithm.
The smallest class had 4 termsand the biggest 218 terms!
So class size depends verymuch on the number and types of variation relationspresent in the initial graph.33TermWatch was initially designed as a scientic andtechnology watch system, hence the choices made insyntactic term variant denitions, the clustering algo-rithm and visualization mechanisms are tightly relatedto this application.
A WWW interface is currently underconstruction to facilitate the return to the source texts5 Combining the two systemsThe two outlined methodologies use the existenceof syntactic variation between multi-word terms tostructure the terminology as a whole.
However, eachapproach reects a dierent aspect of this structure.The ExtrAns approach is designed to identifyexplicit relations between terms.
The results are(relatively) small synsets and a hierarchy of types.For TermWatch, the organizing principle results inlarger classes of terms built around dierent headwords related by syntactic substitution or expansion.Whilst, not specically targeting semantic relationsthe classes do exhibit related terms.
Some of theserelations are denable within the classes.
For exam-ple, the class presented in Table 1 contains all of thehyponyms of \stickiness" identied in ExtrAns (g-ure 2), but the relations are not rendered explicit inthe class.
Also the class contains other terms notinvolved in a specic hyponymy relation.The utility of the classes is in capturing more\fuzzy" relations between terms whilst avoiding theproblems of trying to dene the relation.
For exam-ple, how can the relation between t1: \frozen sweetdough" and t2: \frozen sweet dough baking" be de-ned ?
The most obvious candidate is a part wholerelation but this is defendable only on a formal level:i.e.
t1is a subset of t2, but does that make t1reallya part of t2in any semantic sense?
In other words, is\frozen sweet dough" really a part of \frozen sweetdough baking"?The TermWatch system does not grapple with thisissue.
The interest of these classes for the QA task isthat they exhibit these fuzzy relations.
These repre-sent wider categories of terms to be used for specicsearch types.
For example, when looking for gen-eral information on \frozen sweet dough" a user maywell be interested in \baking" it, but when extract-ing specic information on the same term the rela-tion is inappropriate.
TermWatch was designed orig-inally for scientic and technological watch (STW).through hyperlinks.TermExtractionTermStructureExtrAnsDocumentsynonymyhyponymyTermWatchWordNetFigure 3: Using the structures in ExtrAnsIn this type of application, the expert is less inter-ested in strict semantic relations between terms ina taxonomy but more in capturing the associationof research topics in his/her eld.
So such \fuzzy"relations become all important.Currently ExtrAns uses the synsets and hyponymyhierarchy during the `matching' of queries againstdocuments.
However, when this fails to locate any-thing the process is nished without providing userswith any information or any further access into thedomain.
What is required is to \relax" the denitionof semantic relation, or facilitate domain investiga-tion through visualization of the terminology.The combination of the two methodologies (de-picted in gure 3) results in a terminology structuredalong four levels of granularity.
This structure repre-sents MWTs that are: Strictly synonymous, Word-Net related, Hierarchy of types and Clustered byClass.These levels can be eectively exploited in lo-cating answers.
First, extract potential answersthat involve strictly synonymous MWTs.
Second,look for potential answers with WordNet relatedMWTs.
Third, try hypernyms/hyponyms of thesearch MWT.
Finally, allow the user to browse theclasses of MWTs to identify which are of interest inanswer to the question.TermWatch allows a user-friendly navigation ofthe clustering results.
Classes are mapped out asnodes connected by edges whose length denote thedistance between them.
The longer the length, thefarther the classes are from one another and thus thelower their edge coe?cient (dij).
The Aisee inter-face oers standard navigation functions which allowusers to unfold a class into its components and theninto the terms they contain.
It thus reects the three-level structuring eected by the TermWatch mod-ules.Figure 4 gives the graphic representation of resultsobtained on the corpus.
Note that only classes linkedto others are shown in this gure.
Classes are la-beled automatically by the most active term.
Thelayout points out central or core classes, here classes(32, 22) which can represent the dominant terminol-ogy, and by extension, core research topics in theeld.
This layout also brings out interesting con-gurations like complete graphs and linear graphs.Complete graphs.
The four classes labeled by theterms \dough behaviour" (32), \wheatour bread"(29), \wheat bran" (6) and \dough improver" (20)form a complete graph.
They are all linked by sym-metrical head substitution relations.
We found inthese classes term variants like \wheatour dough"(class 32); \wheatour bread" (class 29), \wheatour supplementation, wheatour blend, wheatourfractionation" (class 6), and nally \wheatour com-position" (class 20).
This complete graph is thusstructured around the two modier elements \wheatour" which can reect a property shared by theconcepts of these four classes.
Linear graphs.
Theanti-symmetrical relations engendered by insertionsand expansions generate linear graphs, i.e., chains ofrelatively long vertices starting from a central class tothe border of the graph.
The visualization tool natu-rally aligns the elements of these linear graphs, thushighlighting them.
For instance, the linear graphformed by the three classes \dough behaviour" (32),\frozen dough baking" (10), \dough procedure" (21)is structured around the set of variants: \frozensweet dough (32) !
\frozen sweet dough baking (10)\frozen dough baking" (10).
The last term \frozendough baking" establishes a strong variation relationwith terms in the third class (21) in which we foundthe modiers \frozen dough" associated to three dif-ferent head words: \characteristic, method, prod-uct".Given that the syntactic variations which helpedgroup terms give o semantic links, and given ourrestricted denitions of variation relation (see 4.1), auser seeking information can be oered these class'scontents at this stage in order to see loosely relatedterms semantically which a terminological resource(thesaurus) or WordNet may not have identied.For instance, in the class shown in Table 1, manyof the terms may not have been related by any se-mantic relation in WordNet (bromate measurementand dough stickiness) because none of the head orthe modier words are in any synsets.
The clus-tering algorithm, brings these terms in one classbecause \bromate measurement" is a modier sub-stitution of \stickiness measurement" which is whythey are in the same component.
Both tell us some-thing about \measurement (or rather about measur-able objects).
On the other hand, \dough surfacestickiness measurement", in the same component, isa left expansion of \stickiness measurement".
TheFigure 4: Navigating the clusters of MWTstwo could point to a `hypernym/hyponym' relation.Thus, from link to link, these terms are connectedto terms of the second component owing to the oneanti-symmetrical link between \dough surface stick-iness measurement" and \surface stickiness".From this kind of investigation, a user can choosethe MWTs of interest.
This set then becomes thebasis of a second round of answering specic ques-tions.
In this way the system can provide high preci-sion access to answers, whilst facilitating navigationthrough a domain of unfamiliar MWTs.6 Related WorkThe importance of multi-word expressions (MWE)in various natural language tasks such as auto-matic indexing, machine translation, informationretrieval/extraction and technology watch need nolonger be proved.The Multi-word Expression Project aims at study-ing the properties of a wide range of expressionsincluding collocations, metaphors and terminology.The motivation is in explicitly dening the character-istics of such phrases.
The results of the project willsuggest e?cient strategies for overcoming the prob-lems MWEs cause for NLP applications (Sag et al,2002)Much work has been dedicated to the process ofnominal compounding (Levi, 1979) and the seman-tic interpretation of nominal compounds (Downing,1977) (Finin, 1980).
Other works have addressedthe specic problem of extracting nominal multi-word expressions for IR applications (Evans et al,1992) (Smeaton and Sheridan, 1992) (Smadja, 1993)or of representing them semantically in order to en-hance IR systems (Popowich et al, 1992) (Gay andCroft, 1990).Many systems are dedicated towards structur-ing terminology for ontology building or terminol-ogy knowledge base construction (Aussenac-Gilleset al, 2003).
These approaches use the corpusto identify linguistic markers which in turn pointto certain semantic relations between terms (hy-pernym/hyponym, synonyms, meronyms).
The ap-proaches we describe are dierent in that relationsare gained through syntactic variations between theterms.Active research by the computational terminol-ogy community (Jacquemin, 2001) (Bourigault etal., 2001) (Pearson, 1998) has highlighted the im-portance of discourse as a means of capturing theessence of terms, hence as a good basis for struc-turing them.
Jacquemin's extensive study has alsohighlighted the fact that terms are given to varia-tions in discourse, so any endeavor to capture the re-lations between terminological units should integratethe variation paradigm.7 ConclusionsDening and identifying semantic relations betweenterms is problematic but can be utilized as part of theQA process.
However, clustering MWTs based onsyntactic variation uncovers classes of terms whichreect more \fuzzy" semantic relations.
These areideally suited to enabling navigation through the do-main identifying terms to be used in the QuestionAnswering process, oering sophisticated access to adomain.
The resulting term structure can be utilizedas a computational thesaurus or incorporated as partof a larger domain ontology.ReferencesN.
Aussenac-Gilles, B. Biebow, and S. Szulman.2003.
D'une methode a un guide pratique demodelisation de connaissances a partir de textes.In Proc.
of the 5th Conference on Terminologieet Intelligence Articielle, Strasbourg, March 31 -April 1.K.
Barker and S. Szpakowicz.
1998.
Semi-AutomaticRecognition of Noun Modier Relationships.
InProc.
of COLING-ACL98, Montreal, Quebec,Canada, August 10-14.D.
Bourigault, C. Jacquemin, and M-C. L'Homme,editors.
2001.
Recent Advances in ComputationalTerminology, volume 2.
John Benjamins.J.
Dowdall, M. Hess, N. Kahusk, K. Kaljurand,M.
Koit, F. Rinaldi, and K. Vider.
2002.
Tech-nical Terminology as a Critical Resource.
In Proc.of LREC-02, Las Palmas, 29 { 31 May.P.
Downing.
1977.
On the creation and use of englishcompound nouns.
Language, (53):810 { 842.D.A Evans, R.G.
Leerts, G. Grefenstette, S.K.
Han-derson, W.R. Hersh, and A.A.Archbold.
1992.CLARIT TREC design, experiments and results.Technical report, Carnegie Mellon University.T.
Finin.
1980.
The semantic interpretation of nom-inal compounds.
In Proceedings "Articial Intelli-gence, pages 310 { 312.
Stanford.L.S.
Gay and W.B.
Croft.
1990.
Interpreting nomi-nal compounds for information retrieval.
Informa-tion Processing and Management, 26(1):21 { 38.F.
Ibekwe-SanJuan and E. SanJuan.
2003.
Fromterm variants to research topics.
Journal ofKnowledge Organization (ISKO), special issue onHuman Language Technology, 29(3/4).F.
Ibekwe-SanJuan.
1998.
Terminological variation,a means of identifying research topics from texts.In Proc.
of Joint ACL-COLING'98, pages 564 {570, Quebec, 10-14 August.F.
Ibekwe-SanJuan.
2001.
Extraction termi-nologique avec intex.
In Proc.of the 4th AnnualINTEX Workshop, Bordeaux, 10-11 June.P.
Isabelle.
1984.
Another look at nominal com-pounds.
In Proc.
of the 10th International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics (COLING'84), pages 509{516, Stanford, USA.C.
Jacquemin.
1995.
A symbolic and surgical ac-quisition of terms through variation.
In Proc.
ofIJCAI95, Montreal.C.
Jacquemin.
2001.
Spotting and discovering termsthrough Natural Language Processing.
MIT Press.K.
Kageura.
2002.
The dynamics of Terminology: Adescriptive theory of term formation and termino-logical growth.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.J.
N. Levi.
1979.
The syntax and semantics of com-plex nominals.
Academic press, New York.J.
Pearson.
1998.
Terms in Context.
John Ben-jamins, Amsterdam.F.
Popowich, P. Mcfetridge, D. Fass, and G. Hall.1992.
Processing complex noun phrases in a natu-ral language interface to a statistical database.
InProceedings COLING'92, pages 46 { 51, Nantes,August 23 { 28.F.
Rinaldi, M. Hess, D. Molla, R. Schwitter, J. Dow-dall, G. Schneider, and R. Fournier.
2002.
AnswerExtraction in Technical Domains.
In Proc.
of CI-CLing 2002, Mexico City, February.I.
A.
Sag, T. Baldwin, F. Bond, A. Copestake, andD.
Flickinger.
2002.
Multiword Expressions: aPain in the Neck for NLP.
In Proc.
of CICLing2002, Mexico City, February.M.
Silberztein.
1993.
Dictionnaires Electroniqueset Analyse Lexicale du Francais - Le Systeme IN-TEX.
Masson, Paris.F.
Smadja.
1993.
Retrieving collocations from text:Xtract.
Computational Linguistics, (19):143 { 177.A.
F. Smeaton and P. Sheridan.
1992.
The appli-cation of morpho-syntactic language processing toeective phrase-matching.
Information Processingand Management, 28(3):349 { 369.
