Aligning and Using an English-Inuktitut Parallel CorpusJoel Martin, Howard Johnson, Benoit Farley and Anna MaclachlanInstitute for Information TechnologyNational Research Council Canadafirstname.lastname@nrc-cnrc.gc.caAbstractA parallel corpus of texts in English andin Inuktitut, an Inuit language, is presented.These texts are from the Nunavut Hansards.The parallel texts are processed in two phases,the sentence alignment phase and the word cor-respondence phase.
Our sentence alignmenttechnique achieves a precision of 91.4% anda recall of 92.3%.
Our word correspondencetechnique is aimed at providing the broadestcoverage collection of reliable pairs of Inuktitutand English morphemes for dictionary expan-sion.
For an agglutinative language like Inuk-titut, this entails considering substrings, notsimply whole words.
We employ a PointwiseMutual Information method (PMI) and attain acoverage of 72.3% of English words and a pre-cision of 87%.1 IntroductionWe present an aligned parallel corpus of Inuktitut andEnglish from the Nunavut Hansards.
The alignment atthe sentence level and the word correspondence followtechniques described in the literature with augmentationssuggested by the specific properties of this language pair.The lack of lexical resources for Inuktitut, the unrelated-ness of the two languages, the fact that the languages usea different script and the richness of the morphology inInuktitut have guided our choice of technique.
Sentenceshave been aligned using the length-based dynamic pro-gramming approach of Gale and Church (1993) enhancedwith a small number of lexical and non-alphabetic an-chors.
Word correspondences have been identified withthe goal of finding an extensive high quality candidateglossary for English and Inuktitut words.
Crucially, thealgorithm considers not only full word correspondences,as most approaches do, but also multiple substring corre-spondences resulting in far greater coverage.2 An English-Inuktitut Corpus2.1 The Parallel TextsThe corpus of parallel texts we present consists of3,432,212 words of English and 1,586,423 words of Inuk-titut from the Nunavut Hansards.
These Hansards areavailable to the public in electronic form in both Englishand Inuktitut (www.assembly.nu.ca).
The Legislative As-sembly of the newly created territory of Nunavut begansitting on April 1, 1999.
Our corpus represents 155 daysof transcribed proceedings of the Nunavut Legislative As-sembly from that first session through to November 1,2002, which was part way through the sixth session ofthe assembly.We gather and process these 155 documents in vari-ous ways described in the rest of this paper and makeavailable a sentence-aligned version of the parallel texts(www.InuktitutComputing.ca/NunavutHansards).
Likethe French-English Canadian Hansards of parliamentaryproceedings, this corpus represents a valuable resourcefor Machine Translation research and corpus research aswell as for the development of language processing toolsfor Inuktitut.
The work reported here takes some firststeps toward these ends, and it is hoped that others willfind ways to expand on this work.
One reason that theCanadian Hansards, a large parallel corpus of English-French, are particularly useful for research is that theyare comparatively noise free as parallel text collectionsgo (Simard and Plamondon, 1996).
This should be trueof the Nunavut Hansard collection as well.
The CanadianHansard is transcribed in both languages so what was saidin English is transcribed in English and then translatedinto French and vice versa.
For the Nunavut Hansard, incontrast, a complete English version of the proceedingsis prepared and then this is translated into Inuktitut, evenwhen the original proceedings were spoken in Inuktitut.2.2 The Inuktitut LanguageInuktitut is the language of the Inuit living in North East-ern Canada, that is, Nunavut (Keewatin and Baffin Is-land), Nunavik and Labrador.
It includes six closelyrelated spoken dialects: Kivalliq, Aivilik, North Baffin,South Baffin, Arctic Quebec (Nunavik), and Labrador.Inuktitut is a highly agglutinative language.
Noun andverb roots occur with two main types of suffixes and thereare many instantiations of these suffixes.
The seman-tic suffixes modify the meaning of the root (over 250 ofthese in North Baffin dialect) and the grammatical suf-fixes indicate features like agreement and mood (approx-imately 700 verbal endings and over 300 nominal endingsin North Baffin dialect).A single word in Inuktitut is often translated withmultiple English words, sometimes corresponding to afull English clause.
For example, the Inuktitut wordr???'???rk?'nnc?k??
?rk?rk (which is transliterated asqaisaaliniaqquunngikkaluaqpuq) corresponds to theseeight English words: ?Actually he will probably not comeearly today?.
The verbal root is qai ?come?, the semanticsuffixes are -saali-, -niaq-, -qquu-, -nngit- and -galuaq-meaning ?soon?, ?a little later today or tomorrow?, ?proba-bility?, ?negation?, and ?actuality?
respectively, and finallythe grammatical suffix -puq expresses the 3rd person sin-gular of the indicative mood.
This frequently occurringone-to-many correspondence represents a challenge forword correspondence.
The opposite challenging situa-tion, namely instances of many-to-one correspondences,also arises for this language pair but less frequently.
Thelatter is therefore not addressed in this paper.Yet another challenge is the morphophonological com-plexity of Inuktitut as reflected in the orthography, whichhas two components.
First, the sheer number of pos-sible suffixes mentioned above is problematic.
Second,the shape of these suffixes is variable.
That is, there aresignificant orthographic changes to the individual mor-phemes when they occur in the context of a word.
Thistype of variability can be seen in the above example at theinterface of -nngit- and -galuaq-, which together become-nngikkaluaq-.Finally, it is important to note that Inuktitut has a syl-labic script for which there is a standard Romanization.To give an idea of how the scripts compare, our corpusof parallel texts consists of 20,124,587 characters of En-glish and 13,457,581 characters in Inuktitut syllabics ascompared to 21,305,295 characters of Inuktitut in Romanscript.3 Sentence Alignment3.1 Sentence Alignment ApproachThe algorithm used to align English-Inuktitut sentences isan extension of that presented in Gale and Church (1993).It does not identify crossing alignments where the sen-tence order within paragraphs in the parallel texts differs.Sentence alignments typically involve one English sen-tence matching one Inuktitut sentence (a 1-to-1 bead),but may also involve 2-to-1, 1-to-2, 0-to-1, 1-to-0 and2-to-2 sentence matching patterns, or beads.
Using sucha length-based approach where the length of sentencesis measured in characters is appropriate for our languagepair since the basic assumption generally holds.
Namely,longer English sentences typically correspond to longerInuktitut sentences as measured in characters.One problem with the approach, as pointed out byMacklovitch and Hannan (1998), is that from the pointwhere a paragraph is misaligned, it is difficult to ensureproper alignment for the remainder of the paragraph.
Weobserved this effect in our alignment.
We also observedthat the large number of small paragraphs with almostidentical length caused problems for the algorithm.Many alignment approaches have addressed such prob-lems by making use of additional linguistic clues specificto the languages to be aligned.
For our language pair,it was not feasible to use most of these.
For example,some alignment techniques make good use of cognates(Simard and Plamondon, 1996).
The assumption is thatwords in the two languages that share the first few let-ters are usually translations of each other.
English andInuktitut, however, are too distantly related to have manycognates.
Even the translation of a proper name does notusually result in a cognate for our language pair, since thetranslation between scripts induces a phonetic translationrather than a character-preserving translation of the name,as these pairs illustrate Peter, Piita; Canada, Kanata;McLean, Makalain.Following a suggestion in Gale and Church (1993),the alignment was aided by the use of additional an-chors that were available for the language pair.
Theseanchors consisted of non-alphabetic sequences (such as9:00, 42-1(1) and 1999) and 8 reliable word cor-respondences that occurred frequently in the corpus, in-cluding words beginning with these character sequencesspeaker/uqaqti and motion/pigiqati, for ex-ample.3.2 Steps in Sentence AlignmentPreprocessing: Preprocessing the Inuktitut and the En-glish raised separate issues.
For English, the main is-sue was ensuring that illegal or unusual characters aremapped to other characters to simplify later processing.For Inuktitut the main issue was the array of encodingsused for the syllabic script.
Inuktitut syllabics can be rep-resented using a 7-bit encoding called ProSyl, which isin many cases extended to an 8-bit encoding Tunngavik.Each syllabic character can be encoded in multiple waysthat need to be mapped into a uniform scheme, such asUnicode.
Each separate file was converted to HTML us-ing a commercial product LogicTran r2net.
Then, thePerl package HTML::TreeBuilder was used to purge thetext of anomalies and set up the correct mappings.
Theoutput of this initial preprocessing step was a collectionof HTML files in pure Unicode UTF8.Boundary Identification: The next step was to iden-tify the paragraph and sentence boundaries for the Inuk-titut and English texts.
Sentences were split at periods,question marks, colons and semi-colons except where thefollowing character was a lower case letter or a number.This resulted in a number of errors but was quite accuratein general.
Paragraph boundaries were inserted wheresuch logical breaks occurred as signaled in the HTMLand generally correspond to natural breaks in the orig-inal document.
Using HTML indicators contributed tothe number of very short paragraphs, especially towardthe beginning of each document.
As mentioned in sec-tion 3.1, these short paragraphs were problematic for thealignment algorithm.
The collection consists of 348,619sentences in 112,346 paragraphs in English and 352,486sentences in 118,733 paragraphs in Inuktitut.
After thisstep, document, paragraph and sentence boundaries wereavailable to use as hard and soft boundaries for the Galeand Church algorithm.Syllabic Script Conversion: The word correspon-dence phase required a Roman script representation ofthe Inuktitut texts.
The conversion from unicode syllab-ics to Roman characters was performed at this stage in thesentence alignment process using the standard ICI con-version method.Anchors: The occurrences of the lexical anchors men-tioned above were found and used with a dynamic pro-gramming search to find the path with the largest numberof alignments.
This algorithm was written in Perl and re-quired about two hours to process the whole corpus.
Allalignments that occurred in the first two sentences of eachparagraph were marked as hard boundaries for the Galeand Church (1993) program as provided in their paper.3.3 Sentence Alignment EvaluationThree representative days of Hansard (1999/04/01,2001/02/21 and 2002/10/29) were selected and manuallyaligned at the sentence level as a gold standard.
Precisionand recall were then measured as suggested in Isabelleand Simard (1996).Results: The number of sentence alignments in thegold standard was 3424.
The number automaticallyaligned by our method was 3459.
The number ofthose automatic alignments that were correct as measuredagainst the gold standard was 3161.
This represents a pre-cision of 91.4% and a recall rate of 92.3%.
For compari-son, the Gale and Church (1993) program, which did notmake use of additional anchors, had poorer results overour corpus.
Their one-pass approach, which ignores para-graph boundaries, had a precision of 66.7% and a recallof 71.5%.
Their two-pass approach, which aligns para-graphs in one pass and then aligns sentences in a secondpass, had a precision of 85.6% and a recall of 87.0%.4 Word CorrespondenceHaving built a sentence-aligned parallel corpus, we nextattempted to use that corpus.
Our goal was to extractas many reliable word associations as possible to aid indeveloping a morphological analyzer and in expandingInuktitut dictionaries.
The output of this glossary discov-ery phase is a list of suggested pairings that a human canconsider for inclusion in a dictionary.
Inuktitut dictio-naries often disagree because of spelling and dialecticaldifferences.
As well, many contemporary words are notin the existing dictionaries.
The parallel corpus presentedhere can be used to augment the dictionaries with currentwords, thereby providing an important tool for students,translators, and others.In our approach, a glossary is populated with pairs ofwords that are consistent translations of each other.
Formany language pairs, considering whole word to wholeword correspondences for inclusion in a glossary wouldyield good results.
However, because Inuktitut is aggluti-native, the method must discover pairs of an English wordand the corresponding root of the Inuktitut word, or thecorresponding Inuktitut suffix, or sometimes the wholeInuktitut word.
In other words, it is essential to considersubstrings of words for good coverage for a language pairlike ours.4.1 Substring Correspondence MethodSearching for substring correspondences is reduced to acounting exercise.
For any pair of substrings, you need toknow how many parallel regions contained the pair, howmany regions in one language contained the first, howmany regions in the other language contained the second,and how many regions there are in total.
For example,the English word ?today?
and the Inuktitut word ?ullumi?occur in 2092 parallel regions.
The word ?today?
appearsin a total of 3065 English regions; and ?ullumi?
appearsin 2702 Inuktitut regions.
All together, there are 332,154aligned regions.
It is fairly certain that these two wordsshould be a glossary pair because each usually occurs asa translation of the other.The PMI Measure: We measure the degree of asso-ciation between any two substrings, one in the Englishand one in the Inuktitut, using Pointwise Mutual Infor-mation (PMI).
PMI measures the amount of informationthat each substring conveys about the occurrence of theother.
We recognize that PMI is badly behaved when thecounts are near 1.
To protect against that problem, wecompute the 99.99999% confidence intervals around thePMI (Lin, 1999), and use the lower bound as a measureof association.
This lower bound rises as the PMI risesor as the amount of data increases.
Many measures ofassociation would likely work as well as the lower confi-dence bound on PMI.
We used that bound as a metric inthis study for three reasons.
First, that metric led to bet-ter performance than Chi-squared on this data.
Second, itaddressed the problem of low frequency events.
Third, itmakes the correct judgment on Gale and Church?s well-known chambre-communes problem (Gale and Church,1991).The decision to include pairs of substrings in the glos-sary proceeds as follows.
Include the highest PMI scoringpairs if neither member of the pair has yet been included.If two pairs are tied, check whether the Inuktitut membersof the pairs are in a substring relation.
If they are, thenadd the pair with the longer substring to the glossary; ifnot, then add neither pair.Many previous efforts have used a similar methodol-ogy but were only able to focus on word to word cor-respondences (Gale and Church, 1991).
Here, the En-glish words can correspond to any substring in any Inuk-titut word in the aligned region.
This means that statis-tics have to be maintained for many possible pairs.
Un-der our approach, we maintain all these statistics for allEnglish words, all Inuktitut words as well as substringswith length of between one and 10 Roman characters, andall co-occurrences that have frequency greater than three.This approach thereby addresses the challenge of Inuk-titut roots and multiple semantic suffixes correspondingto individual English words.
It also addresses the chal-lenge of orthographic variation at morpheme boundariesto some degree since it will truncate morphemes appro-priately in many cases.4.2 Glossary EvaluationThis method suggested 4362 word-substring pairs for in-clusion in a glossary.
This represents a 72.3% coverage ofEnglish word occurrences in the corpus (omitting wordsof fewer than 3 characters).
One hundred of these word-substring pairs were chosen at random and judged for ac-curacy using two existing dictionaries and a partial suffixlist.
An Inuktitut substring was said to match an Englishword exactly if the Inuktitut root plus all the suffixes car-ried the same meaning as the English word and conveyedthe same grammatical features (e.g., grammatical numberand case).
The correspondence was said to be good if theInuktitut root plus the left-most lexical suffixes conveyedthe same meaning as the English word.
In those cases, theInuktitut word conveyed additional semantic or grammat-ical information.About half of the exact matches were uninflectedproper nouns.
A typical example of the other exactmatches is the pair inuup and person?s.
In this pair, inu-means person and -up is the singular genitive case.
A typ-ical example of a good match is the pair pigiaqtitara anddeal.
In this pair, pigiaqti- means deal and -tara conveysfirst person singular subject and third person singular ob-ject.
For example, ?I deal with him?.Of the 100 pairs, 43 were deemed exact matches and44 were deemed good matches.
The remaining 13 wereincorrect.
Taken together 87% of the pairs in the samplewere useful to include in a glossary.
This level of perfor-mance will improve as we introduce morphological anal-ysis to both the Inuktitut and English words.5 ConclusionWe have shown that aligning an English text with a highlyagglutinative language text can have very useful out-comes.
The alignment of the corpus to the sentence levelwas achieved accurately enough to build a usable parallelcorpus.
This is demonstrated by the fact that we couldcreate a glossary tool on the basis of this corpus thatsuggested glossary pairings for 72.3% of English wordsin the text with a precision of 87%.
We hope that ourwork will generate further interest in this newly availableEnglish-Inuktitut parallel corpus.Acknowledgements We would like to thank GavinNesbitt of the Legislative Assembly of Nunavut for pro-viding the Hansards, Peter Turney for useful sugges-tions, and Canadian Heritage for financial support of thisproject.ReferencesWilliam A. Gale and Kenneth Ward Church.
1991.
Iden-tifying word correspondance in parallel text.
In Pro-ceedings of the DARPA NLP Workshop.William A. Gale and Kenneth Ward Church.
1993.
Aprogram for aligning sentences in bilingual corpora.Computational Linguistics, 19(1):75?103.Pierre Isabelle and Michel Simard.
1996.
Propo-sitions pour la repre?sentation et l?e?valuation desalignements de textes paralle`les.
[http://www.lpl.univ-aix.fr/projects/arcade/2nd/sent/metrics.html].
In Rap-port technique, CITI.Dekang Lin.
1999.
Automatic identification of non-compositional phrases.
In Proceedings of the ACL.Elliot Macklovitch and Marie-Louise Hannan.
1998.Line ?em up: Advances in alignment technology andtheir impact on translation support tools.
MachineTranslation, 13(1).Michel Simard and Pierre Plamondon.
1996.
Bilingualsentence alignment: Balancing robustness and accu-racy.
In Proceedings of the Conference of the Associa-tion for Machine Translation in the Americas (AMTA).
