Effective Adaptation of a Hidden Markov Model-based Named EntityRecognizer for Biomedical DomainDan Shen??
Jie Zhang??
Guodong Zhou?
Jian Su?
Chew-Lim Tan??
Institute for Infocomm Research21 Heng Mui Keng TerraceSingapore 119613?
Department of Computer ScienceNational University of Singapore3 Science Drive 2, Singapore 117543{shendan,zhangjie,zhougd,sujian}@i2r.a-star.edu.sg{tancl}@comp.nus.edu.sgAbstractIn this paper, we explore how to adapt ageneral Hidden Markov Model-basednamed entity recognizer effectively tobiomedical domain.
We integrate variousfeatures, including simple deterministicfeatures, morphological features, POSfeatures and semantic trigger features, tocapture various evidences especially forbiomedical named entity and evaluatetheir contributions.
We also present asimple algorithm to solve the abbreviationproblem and a rule-based method to dealwith the cascaded phenomena in biomedi-cal domain.
Our experiments on GENIAV3.0 and GENIA V1.1 achieve the 66.1and 62.5 F-measure respectively, whichoutperform the previous best publishedresults by 8.1 F-measure when using thesame training and testing data.1 IntroductionAs the research in biomedical domain has grownrapidly in recent years, a huge amount of naturelanguage resources have been developed and be-come a rich knowledge base.
The technique ofnamed entity (NE) recognition (NER) is stronglydemanded to be applied in biomedical domain.Since in previous work, many NER systems havebeen applied successfully in newswire domain(Zhou and Su 2002; Bikel et al 1999; Borthwich etal.
1999), more and more explorations have beendone to port existing NER system into biomedicaldomain (Kazama et al 2002; Takeuchi et al 2002;Nobata et al 1999 and 2000; Collier et al 2000;Gaizauskas et al 2000; Fukuda et al 1998; Prouxet al 1998).
However, compared with those innewswire domain, these systems haven?t got highperformance.
It is probably because of the follow-ing factors of biomedical NE (Zhang et al 2003):1.
Some modifiers are often before basic NEs,e.g.
activated B cell lines, and sometimes biomedi-cal NEs are very long, e.g.
47 kDa sterol regula-tory element binding factor.
This kind of factorhighlights the difficulty for identifying the bound-ary of NE.2.
Two or more NEs share one head noun byusing conjunction or disjunction construction, e.g.91 and 84 kDa proteins.
It is hard to identify theseNEs respectively.3.
An entity may be found with various spellingforms, e.g.
N-acetylcysteine, N-acetyl-cysteine,NAcetylCysteine, etc.
Since the use of capitaliza-tion is casual, the capitalization information maynot be so evidential in this domain.4.
NE may be cascaded.
One NE may be em-bedded in another NE, e.g.
<PROTEIN><DNA>kappa 3</DNA> binding factor </PROTEIN>.More effort must be made to identify this kind ofNE.5.
Abbreviations are frequently used in bio-medical domain, e.g.
TCEd, IFN, TPA, etc.
Sinceabbreviations don?t have many evidences for cer-tain NE class, it is difficult to classify them cor-rectly.These factors above make NER in biomedicaldomain difficult.
Therefore, it is necessary to ex-plore more evidential features and more effectivemethods to cope with such difficulties.In this paper, we will study how to adapt a gen-eral Hidden Markov Model (HMM)-based NE rec-ognizer (Zhou and Su 2002) to biomedical domain.We specially explore various evidences for bio-medical NE and propose methods to cope with ab-breviations and cascaded phenomena.
As a result,features (simple deterministic features, morpho-logical features, part-of-speech features and headnoun trigger features) and methods (abbreviationrecognition algorithm and rule-based cascadedphenomena resolution) are integrated in our system.The experiment shows that system outperforms thebest published system by 8.1 F-measure.In Section 2, we will introduce the HMM-based NE recognizer briefly.
In Section 3, we willfocus on the features that we have used.
Themethods and the adaptations of different featureswill be discussed in detail.
In Section 5 and 6, wewill present the solutions of abbreviation and cas-caded phenomena.
Finally, our experiment resultswill be presented and the contributions of differentfeatures will be analyzed in Section 7.233.1HMM-based Named Entity RecognizerOur system is adapted from a HMM-based NErecognizer, which has been proved very effectivein MUC (Zhou and Su 2002).The purpose of HMM is to find the most likelytag sequence T for a given sequenceof tokens G  that maxi-mizes .nn ttt ??
?= 211n gg ?= 211)1nGng?
?|( 1nTPIn token sequence G , the token g  is definedas , where w is the word and isthe feature set related with the word .n1 ii>=< iii wfg , i ifwIn tag sequenceT , each tag consists of threeparts: 1.
Boundary category, which denotes theposition of the current word in NE.
2.
Entity cate-gory, which indicates the NE class.
3.
Feature set,which will be discussed in Section 3.n1 itWhen we incorporate a plentiful feature set inHMM, we will encounter data sparseness problem.An alternative back-off modeling approach bymeans of constraint relaxation is applied in ourmodel (Zhou and Su 2002).
It enables the decod-ing process effectively find a near optimal fre-quently occurred pattern entry in determining theNE tag probability distribution of current word.Finally, the Viterbi algorithm (Viterbi 1967) isimplemented to find the most likely tag sequencein the state space of the possible tag distributionbased on the state transition probabilities.
Fur-thermore, some constraints on the boundary cate-gory and entity category between two consecutivetags are applied to filter the invalid NE tags (Zhouand Su 2002).Feature SetSimple Deterministic Features (Fsd)The purpose of simple deterministic features is tocapture the capitalization, digitalization and wordformation information.
This kind of features havebeen widely used in both newswire NER system,such as (Zhou and Su 2002), and biomedical NERsystem, such as (Nobata et al 1999; Gaizauskas etal.
2000; Collier et al 2000; Takeuchi and Collier2002; Kazama et al 2002).
Based on the charac-teristics of biomedical NEs, we designed simpledeterministic features manually.
Table 1 shows thesimple deterministic features with descending or-der of priority.Fsd Name ExampleComma ,Dot .LRB (RRB )LSB [RSB ]RomanDigit IIGreekLetter BetaStopWord in, atATCGsequence AACAAAGOneDigit 5AllDigits 60DigitCommaDigit 1,25DigitDotDigit 0.5OneCap TAllCaps CSFCapLowAlpha AllCapMixAlpha IgMLowMixAlpha kDaAlphaDigitAlpha H2AAlphaDigit T4DigitAlphaDigit 6C2DigitAlpha 19DTable 1: Simple deterministic featuresFrom Table 1, we can find that:1.
Features such as comma, dot, StopWord, etc.are designed intuitively to provide information todetect the boundary of NE.2.
Features Parenthesis is often used to indicatethe definition of abbreviation in biomedical docu-ments.3.
Features GreekLetter and RomanDigit arespecially designed to capture the symbolsfrequently occurred in biomedical NE.4.
Feature ATCG sequence identify the similar-ity of words according to their word formations,e.g.
AACAAAG, CTCAGGA, etc.5.
Features dealing with mixed alphabets anddigits such as AlphaDigitAlpha, CapMixAlpha, etc.are beneficial for biomedical abbreviations.Furthermore, we evaluate these features andcompare with those used in MUC (Zhou and Su,2002).
The reported result of the simple determi-nistic features used in MUC can achieve F-measure of 74.1 (Zhou and Su 2002), but whenthey are used in biomedical domain, they only getF-measure of 24.3.
By contrast, using the simpledeterministic features we designed for biomedicalNER, the system achieves F-measure of 29.4.
Ac-cording to the comparison, some findings may beconcluded as follows:1) Simple deterministic features are domain de-pendent, which suggests that it is necessary to de-sign special features for biomedical NER.2) Simple deterministic features have weakerpredictive power for NE classes in biomedical do-main than in newswire domain.3.2 Morphological Feature (Fm)Morphological information, such as prefix/suffix,is considered as an important cue for terminologyidentification.
In our system, we get most frequent100 prefixes and suffixes from training data ascandidates.
Then, each of these candidates isevaluated according to formula f1.
( )iiii NOUTINWt## ?=   (f1)in which, #INi is the number that prefix/suffix ioccurs within NEs; #OUTi is the number that pre-fix/suffix i occurs out of NEs; Ni is the total num-ber of prefix/suffix i.The formula assumes that the particular pre-fix/suffix, which is most likely inside NEs andleast likely outside NEs, may be thought as a goodevidence for distinguishing the NEs.
The candi-dates with Wt above a certain threshold (0.7 in ex-periment) are chosen.
Then, we calculated thefrequency of each prefix/suffix in each NE classand group the prefixes/suffixes with the similardistribution among NE classes into one feature.This is because prefixes/suffixes with the similardistribution have the similar contribution, and itwill avoid suffering from the data sparseness prob-lem.
Some of morphological features were listedin Table 2.Fm Name Prefix/Suffix ExamplesOOC ~cin actinomycin~mide Cycloheximide~zole SulphamethoxazolesLPD ~lipid Phospholipids~rogen Estrogen~vitamin dihydroxyvitaminsCTP ~blast erythroblast~cyte thymocyte~phil eosinophilsPEPT ~peptide neuropeptidesMA ~ma hybridomasVIR ~virus cytomegalovirusTable 2: Examples of morphological featuresFrom Table 2, the suffixes ~cin, ~mide, ~zolehave been grouped into one feature sOOC becausethey all have the high frequency in the NE classOtherOrganicCompound and relatively low fre-quencies in the other NE classes.
In our system,totally 37 prefixes and suffixes were selected andgrouped to 23 features.3.3 Part-of-Speech Features (Fpos)In the previous NER research in newswire domain,part-of-speech (POS) features were stated not use-ful, as POS features may affect the use of someimportant capitalization information (Zhou and Su2002).
However, since more and more words withlower case are included in NEs, capitalization in-formation in biomedical domain is not as eviden-tial as it in newswire domain (Zhang et al 2003).Moreover, since many biomedical NEs are descrip-tive and long, identifying NE boundary is not atrivial task.
POS tagging can provide the evidenceof noun phrase region based on word syntactic in-formation and the noun phrases are most likely tobe NE.
Therefore, we reconsidered the POS tag-ging.In previous research, (Kazama et al 2002)make use of POS information and conclude that itonly slightly improves performance.
Moreover,(Collier et al 2000; Nobata et al 2000; Takeuchiand Collier.
2002) don?t incorporate POS informa-tion in their systems.
The probable reason ex-plained by them is that since POS tagger they usedis trained on newswire articles, the assigned POStags are often incorrect in biomedical documents.On the whole, it can be concluded that POS infor-mation hasn?t been well used in previous work.In our experiment, a POS tagger was trained us-ing 80% of GENIA V2.1 corpus (536 abstracts,123K words) and evaluated on the rest 20% (134abstracts, 29K words).
We use GENIA corpus totrain the POS tagger in order to let it be adapted forbiomedical domain.
As for comparison, we alsotrained the POS tagger on Wall Street Journal arti-cles (2500 articles, 756K words) and tested on the20% of GENIA corpus.
The results are shown inTable 3.Training set Testing set Precision2500 WSJ articles 84.31536 GENIA abstracts134 GENIAabstracts 97.37Table 3: Comparison of POS tagger using dif-ferent training dataFrom Table 3, it can be found that POS taggertrained on the biomedical documents performsmuch better on the biomedical testing documentsthan that trained on WSJ articles.
This is consis-tent with earlier explanation for why POS featuresare not so useful in biomedical NER (Nobata et al2000; Takeuchi and Collier 2002).3.4 Semantic Trigger FeaturesSemantic trigger features are collected to capturethe evidence of certain NE class based on the se-mantic information of some key words.
Initially,we design two types of semantic triggers: headnoun triggers and special verb triggers.3.4.1 Head Noun Triggers (Fhnt)Head noun means the main noun or noun phrase ofsome compound words and describes the functionor the property, e.g.
?B cells?
is the head noun forthe NE ?activated human B cells?.
Compared withthe other words in NE, head noun is a much moredecisive factor for distinguishing NE classes.
Forinstance,<OtherName>IFN-gamma treatment</OtherName><DNA>IFN-gamma activation sequence</DNA>In our work, we extract uni-gram and bi-gramsof head nouns automatically from training data,and rank them by frequency.
According to the ex-periment, we selected 60% top ranked head nounsas trigger features for each NE class.
Some exam-ples are shown in Table 4.In the future application, we may also extractthe head nouns from some public resources to en-hance the triggers.1-gram 2-gramsPROTEINinterleukin activator proteininterferon binding proteinkinase cell receptorligand gene productCELL TYPElymphocyte blast cellastrocyte blood lymphocyteeosinophil killer cellfibroblast peripheral monocyteDNADNA X chromosomebreakpoint alpha promotercDNA binding motifchromosome promoter elementTable 4: Examples of head noun triggers3.4.2 Special Verb Triggers (Fsvt)Besides collecting the triggers, such as head nountriggers, from the NEs themselves, we also extractthe triggers from the local contexts of the NEs.Recently, some frequently occurred verbs in bio-medical document have been proved useful forextracting the interaction between entities (Thomaset al 2000; Sekimizu et al 1998).
In biomedicalNER, we have the intuition that particular verbsmay also provide the evidence for boundary andNE class.
For instance, the verb bind is often usedto indicate the interaction between proteins.In our system, we selected 20 most frequentverbs which occur adjacent to NE from trainingdata automatically as the verb trigger features,which is shown in Table 5.Special Verb Triggersactivate expressbind induceinhibit interactregulate stimulateTable 5: Examples of special verb triggers4 Method for Abbreviation RecognitionAbbreviations are widely used in biomedical do-main.
Identifying the class of them constitutes animportant and difficult problem (Zhang et al 2003).In our current system, we incorporate a methodto classify abbreviation by mapping the abbrevia-tion to its full form.
This approach is based on theassumption that it is easier to classify the full formthan abbreviation.
In most cases, this assumptionis valid because the full form has more evidencesthan its abbreviation to capture the NE class.Moreover, if we can map the abbreviation to itsfull form in the current document, the recognizedabbreviation is still helpful for classifying the sameforthcoming abbreviations in the same document,as in (Zhou and Su 2002).In practice, abbreviation and its full form oftenoccur simultaneously with parenthesis when firstappear in biomedical documents.
There are twocases:1. full form (abbreviation)2. abbreviation (full form)Most patterns conform to the first case and ifthe content inside the parenthesis includes morethan two words, the second case is assumed(Schwartz and Hearst 2003).In these two cases, the use of parenthesis isboth evidential and confusing.
On one hand, it isevidential because it can provide the indication tomap the abbreviation to its full form.
On the otherhand, it is confusing because it makes the annota-tion of NE more complicated.
Sometimes, the ab-breviation and its full form are annotatedseparately, such as<CellType>human mononulear leuko-cytes</CellType>(<CellType>hMNL</CellType>),and sometimes, they are all embedded in the wholeentity, such as<OtherName>leukotriene B4 (LTB4) genera-tion</OtherName>.Therefore, parenthesis needs to be treated specially.We develop an abbreviation recognition algorithmdescribed in Figure 1.In preprocessing stage, we remove the abbre-viations and parentheses from the sentence, whenthe abbreviation is first defined.
This measure willmake the annotation simpler and the NE recognizermore effective.
The main work in this stage is tojudge which case the current pattern belongs to andrecord the original positions of the abbreviationand parenthesis.After applying the HMM-based NE recognizerto the sentence, we restore the abbreviation andparenthesis to the original position in the sentence.Next, the abbreviation is classified.
There are twopriorities of the class (from high to low): the classof its full form identified by the recognizer, and theclass of the abbreviation itself identified by therecognizer.
At last, the same abbreviation occur-ring in the rest sentences of the current documentare assigned the same NE class.for each sentence Si in the document{if exist parenthesis{judge the case of {?full form (abbr.)?;?abbr.
(full form)?
;}store the abbr.
A and position Pa  to a list;record the parenthesis position Pp;remove A and parenthesis from sentence;apply HMM-based NE recognizer to Si;restore A and parenthesis into Pa, Pp;if Pp within an identified NE E with the class CEparenthesis is included in E;else{parenthesis is not included;classify A to CE;classify A in the rest part of document to CE;}}else apply HMM-based NE recognizer to Si;}Figure 1: Abbreviation recognition algorithm5 Solution of Cascaded PhenomenaIn (Zhang et al 2003), they state that 16.57% ofNEs in GENIA V3.0 have cascaded annotations,such as<RNA><DNA>CIITA</DNA> mRNA</RNA>.Currently, we only consider the longest NE andignore the embedded NEs.Based on the features described in section 3,our system counters some problems when dealingwith cascaded NEs.
The probable reason is thatthe features we used are not so effective for thiskind of NEs.For instance, POS is based on the assumptionthat NE is most likely to be a noun phrase.
Forcascaded NE, this assumption may not always bevalid because one NE may consist of two or morenoun phrases connected by some special words,such as TSH receptor specific T cell lines.Moreover, in section 3.4.1, we have shown thathead noun is the significant clue for distinguishingNE classes.
Even for cascaded NEs, head nounfeatures are still effective to some extent, such asIL-2 mRNA.
However, cascaded NEs sometimescontain two or more head nouns, which belong todifferent NE classes.
For example, <DNA>IgG Fcreceptor type IC gene</DNA>, in which receptoris the head noun of protein and gene is the headnoun of DNA.
In general, the latter head noun willbe more important.
Unfortunately, it seems thatsometimes the shorter NE is more possible to beidentified, such as <protein>IgG Fc recep-tor</protein> type IC gene.On the whole, we have to explore an additionalmethod to cope with the cascaded phenomenaseparately.
In our experiment, we attempt to solvethis problem based on some rules.In GENIA corpus, we find that there are fourbasic types of cascaded NEs:1.
< <NE> head noun >2.
< modifier <NE> >3.
< <NE1> <NE2> >4.
< <NE1> word <NE2> >Moreover, these cascaded NEs may be generatediteratively.
For instance,5.
< modifier <NE> head noun >6.
< <NE1> <NE2> head noun >The rules are constructed automatically fromthe cascaded NEs in training data.
Correspondingto the four basic types of cascaded NEs mentionedbefore, we propose four patterns and apply themiteratively in each sentence:1.
<entity1> head noun ?
<entity2>e.g.
<Protein> binding motif ?
<DNA>2.
<entity1> <entity2> ?
<entity3>e.g.
<Lipid> <Protein> ?
<Protein>3.
modifier <entity1> ?
<entity2>e.g.
anti <Protein> ?
<Protein>4.
<entity1> word <entity2> ?
<entity3>e.g.
<Virus> infected <Multicell> ?
<Multicell>In our system, 102 rules are incorporated toclassify the cascaded NEs.66.16.2ExperimentsGENIA CorpusGENIA corpus is the largest annotated corpus inmolecular biology domain available to public(Ohta et al 2002).
In our experiment, three ver-sions are used:?
GENIA Version 1.1 (V1.1) -- It contains 670MEDLINE abstracts.
Since a lot of previous re-lated work used this version, we use it to compareour result with others?.?
GENIA Version 2.1 (V2.1) -- It contains thesame 670 abstracts as V1.1 and POS tagging.
Weuse it to train and evaluate our POS tagger.?
GENIA Version 3.0 (V3.0) -- It contains 2000abstracts, which is the superset of V1.1.
We use itto get the latest result and find out the effect oftraining data size.The annotation of NE is based on the GENIAontology.
In our task, we use 23 distinct NEclasses.
As for the conjunctive and disjunctiveNEs, we ignore such cases and take the whole con-struction as one entity.
In addition, for the cas-caded annotations in V3.0, currently, we onlyconsider the longest one level of the annotations.Experimental ResultsThe system is evaluated using standard ?preci-sion/recall/F-measure?, in which ?F-measure?
isdefined as F-measure = (2PR) / (P+R).We evaluate our NER system on both V3.0 andV1.1, each of which has been split into a trainingset and a testing set.
As for V1.1, we divide thecorpus into 590 abstracts (136K words) as trainingset and the rest 80 abstracts (17K words) as testingset.
As for V3.0, we use the same testing set asV1.1 and the rest 1920 abstracts (447K words) astraining set.Corpus P R FOur system on V3.0 66.5 65.7 66.1Our system on V1.1 63.8 61.3 62.5Kazama?s on V1.1 56.2 52.8 54.4Table 6: Comparison of overall performanceTable 6 shows the overall performance of oursystem on V3.0 and V1.1, and the best reportedsystem on V1.1 described in (Kazama et al 2002).On V1.1, we use the same training and testing dataand capture the same NE classes as (Kazama et al2002).
Our system (62.5 F-measure) outperformsKazama?s (54.4 F-measure) by 8.1 F-measure.This probably benefits from the various evidentialfeatures and the effective methods we proposed.Furthermore, as our expectation, the performanceachieved on V3.0 (66.1 F-measure) is better thanthat on V1.1 (62.5 F-measure), which indicate thatour system still has some room for improvementwith the larger training data set.Figure 2: Performance of each NE classIn addition, Figure 2 shows the detailed per-formance chart of each NE class on V3.0.
In thefigure, the numbers in the parenthesis are the num-ber that NEs of that class occur in training/testingdata.
It can be found that the performances vary alot among the NE classes.
Some NE classes thathave very few training data, such as Carbohydrateand Organism, get extremely low performance.In order to evaluate the contributions of differ-ent features, we evaluate our system using differentcombinations of features (Table 7).From Table 7, several findings are concluded:1) With only Fsd, our system achieves a basiclevel F-measure of 29.4.2) Fm shows the positive effect with 2.4 F-measure improvement based on the basic level.However, it only can slightly improve the perform-ance (+1.2 F-measure) based on Fsd, Fpos and Fhnt.The probable reason is that the evidences includedin Fm have already been captured by Fhnt.
More-over, the evidences captured by Fhnt are more accu-rate than that captured by Fm.
The contributionmade by Fm may come from where there is no indi-cation of Fhnt.Fsd Fm Fpos Fhnt Fsvt P R F?
42.4 22.5 29.4?
?
44.8 24.6 31.8?
?
?
58.3 50.9 54.3?
?
?
62.0 61.6 61.8?
?
?
?
64.4 61.7 63.0?
?
?
?
?
60.6 59.3 60.0Table 7: Effects of different features on V3.03) Fpos is proved very beneficial as it makesgreat increase on F-measure (+22.5) based on Fsdand Fm.4) Fhnt leads to an improvement of 8.7 F-measure based on Fsd, Fm and Fpos.5) Out of our expectation, the use of Fsvt de-creases both precision and recall, which may beexplained as the present and past participles ofsome special verbs often play the adjective-likeroles inside biomedical NEs, such as IL10-inhibited lymphocytes.P R FFsd+Fm+Fpos+Fhnt 64.4 61.7 63.0+abbr.
recog.
algorithm 64.6 62.5 63.5+rule-based casc.
method 66.2 65.8 66.0+both 66.5 65.7 66.1Table 8: Effects of solution for abbr.
and casc.From Table 8, it can be found that the abbrevia-tion recognition method slightly improves the per-formance by 0.5 F-measure.
The probable reasonis that the recognition of abbreviation relies toomuch on the recognition of its full form.
Once thefull form is wrongly classified, the abbreviationand the forthcoming ones throughout the documentare wrong altogether.
In the near future, the pre-defined abbreviation dictionary may be incorpo-rated to enhance the decision of NE class.Moreover, it can be found that the rule-basedmethod effectively solves the problem of cascadedphenomena and shows prominent improvement(+3.0 F-measure) based on the performance of?Fsd+Fm+Fpos+Fhnt?.7 ConclusionIn the paper, we describe our exploration on howto adapt a general HMM-based named entity rec-ognizer to biomedical domain.
We integrate vari-ous evidences for biomedical NER, includinglexical, morphological, syntactic and semantic in-formation.
Furthermore, we present a simple algo-rithm to solve the abbreviation problem and a rule-based method to deal with the cascaded phenom-ena.
Based on such evidences and methods, oursystem is successfully adapted to biomedical do-main and achieves significantly better performancethan the best published system.
In the near future,more effective abbreviation recognition algorithmand some pre-defined NE lists for some classesmay be incorporated to enhance our system.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Mr. Tan Soon Heng for hissupport of biomedical knowledge.ReferencesM.
Bikel Danie, R.Schwartz and M. Weischedel Ralph.1999.
An Algorithm that Learns What's in a Name.In Proc.
of Machine Learning (Special Issue on NLP).A.
Borthwick.
1999.
A Maximum Entropy Approachto Named Entity Recognition.
Ph.D. Thesis.
NewYork University.N.
Collier, C. Nobata, and J. Tsujii.
2000.
Extractingthe names of genes and gene products with a hiddenMarkov model.
In Proc.
of COLING 2000, pages201-207.K.
Fukuda, T. Tsunoda, A. Tamura, and T. Takagi.1998.
Toward information extraction: identifyingprotein names from biological papers.
In Proc.
of thePacific Symposium on Biocomputing?98 (PSB?98),pages 707-718, January.R.
Gaizauskas, G. Demetriou and K. Humphreys.
TermRecognition and Classification in Biological ScienceJournal Articles.
2000.
In Proc.
of the ComputionalTerminology for Medical and Biological ApplicationsWorkshop of the 2nd International Conference onNLP, pages 37-44.J.
Kazama, T. Makino, Y.Ohta, and J. Tsujii.
2002.Tuning Support Vector Machines for BiomedicalNamed Entity Recognition.
In Proc.
of the Work-shop on Natural Language Processing in the Bio-medical Domain (at ACL?2002), pages 1-8.C.
Nobata, N. Collier, and J. Tsujii.
1999.
Automaticterm identification and classification in biology texts.In Proc.
of the 5th NLPRS, pages 369-374.C.
Nobata, N. Collier, and J. Tsujii.
2000.
Comparisonbetween tagged corpora for the named entity task.
InProc.
of the Workshop on Comparing Corpora (atACL?2000), pages 20-27.T.
Ohta, Y. Tateisi, J. Kim, H. Mima, and J. Tsujii.2002.
The GENIA corpus: An annotated researchabstract corpus in molecular biology domain.
InProc.
of HLT 2002.D.
Proux, F. Rechenmann, L. Julliard, V. Pillet and B.Jacq.
1998.
Detecting Gene Symbols and Names inBiological Texts: A First Step toward Pertinent In-formation Extraction.
In Proc.
of Genome InformSer Workshop Genome Inform, pages 72-80.A.S.
Schwartz and M.A.
Hearst.
2003.
A Simple Algo-rithm for Identifying Abbreviation Definitions inBiomedical Text.
In Proc.
of the Pacific Symposiumon Biocomputing (PSB 2003) Kauai.T.
Sekimizu, H. Park, and J. Tsujii.
1998.
Identifyingthe interaction between genes and gene productsbased on frequently seen verbs in medline abstracts.In Proc.
of Genome Informatics, Universal AcademyPress, Inc.K.
Takeuchi and N. Collier.
2002.
Use of Support Vec-tor Machines in Extended Named Entity Recognition.In Proc.
of the Sixth Conference on Natural Lan-guage Learning (CONLL 2002), pages 119-125.J.
Thomas, D. Milward, C. Ouzounis, S. Pulman, and M.Carroll.
2000.
Automatic extraction of protein inter-actions from scientific abstracts.
In Proc.
of the Pa-cific Symposium on Biocomputing?2000 (PSB?2000),pages 541-551, Hawaii, January.A.
J. Viterbi.
1967.
Error bounds for convolutionalcodes and an asymptotically optimum decoding algo-rithm.
In Proc.
of IEEE Transactions on InformationTheory, pages 260-269.J.
Zhang, D. Shen, G. Zhou, J. Su and C. Tan.
2003.Exploring Various Evidences for Recognition ofNamed Entities in Biomedical Domain.
Submitted toEMNLP 2003.G.
Zhou and J. Su.
2002.
Named Entity Recognitionusing an HMM-based Chunk Tagger.
In Proc.
of the40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL), pages 473-480.
