GeoName: a system for back-transliterating pinyin place namesKui Lam KwokComputer Science Dept., CUNYQueens College, 65-30 Kissena Blvd.Flushing, NY, 11367kwok@ir.cs.qc.eduQiang DengComputer Science Dept., CUNYQueens College, 65-30 Kissena Blvd.Flushing, NY, 11367peterqc@yahoo.comAbstractTo be unambiguous about a Chinesegeographic name represented in English textas Pinyin, one needs to recover the name inChinese characters.
We present our approachto this back-transliteration problem based onprocesses such as bilingual geographic namelookup, name suggestion using place namecharacter and pair frequencies, andconfirmation via a collection of monolingualnames or the WWW.
Evaluation shows thatabout 48% to 72% of the correct names canbe recovered as the top candidate, and 82% to86% within top ten, depending on theprocesses employed.1 IntroductionNames referring to entities can be ambiguous becausedifferent entities may have been given the same name.When one encounters foreign place names withinEnglish texts, further complication arises because theEnglish alphabet may not represent the native writinguniquely or adequately, and transliteration has to beemployed.
This is true for Chinese place names.
In thisinformation age, documents on Chinese events such asnews stories, commentaries, reviews, analysis, canoriginate from various sources and languages other thanChinese.
Authors may reference Chinese place namesbut not necessary accompany it with the actual Chinesecharacters.
It is therefore useful to build an automaticalgorithm to decode such a place name in English andmap it to the original Chinese character representation.Chinese language is written as a contiguous string ofideographs (characters) without white space.Geographic names of most cities, provinces, mountains,etc are two to four characters long.
Border regions havelonger place names.
Unlike person names, there is not apreferred closed set for family name characters.
Any ofthe over 6K GB-encoded character is theoreticallyadmissible as part of a place name.
When one refers tothem in English text, one needs to represent them usingEnglish alphabets ?
a process of romanization.
Twomain systems exist for this process: Pinyin, official inMainland China, and Wade-Giles convention, popularin Taiwan (see e.g.
http://www.romanization.com).Their objective is to spell out the pronunciation of theChinese characters with alphabets.
Unfortunately,although written Chinese is by and large uniform(except for a few hundred characters that havesimplified vs. traditional forms), spoken Chinese canvary from region to region with different dialects.
ThePinyin system was introduced by the PRC governmentin the 1950?s.
It attempts to standardize therepresentation according to the official BeijingPotunghua dialect (Northern China Mandarin) for thewhole country.
The Wade-Giles system is an olderconvention designed by authors of the same names inthe late 19th and early 20th century, and is popular inTaiwan and some parts of South-East Asia.There are also other haphazard romanizationconventions in different regions where Chinese is used.For example, Hong Kong has its own British colonialhistory and Southern (GuangDong) dialect, and entitynames are often spelt differently.
The representation?Hong Kong?
itself is neither Pinyin nor Wade-Giles.
Itshould have been ?Xiang Gang?
in the former, and?Hsiang Kang?
in the latter.
This is also true for?Singapore?.
In this investigation, we will mainly focuson the Pinyin convention.
This is used by most of theChinese (PRC) and there has been discussion in Taiwanto adopt it even though there are still political obstaclesaround this issue.
There is evidence that this system isgaining popularity in the U.S. as the default choice(Library of Congress 2000).This paper investigates methods of recovering aChinese place name in GB-encoding (the character codesused for simplified Chinese characters) when its EnglishPinyin is given.
We have previously built a systemPYName (Kwok and Deng 2002) to back-transliterateChinese person names.
This paper extends it to providesimilar functionality for place names.
It is a tool to helpreduce ambiguity in cross language geographic entityreference, and would be useful for cross languageinformation retrieval.
The organization of this paper isas follows: Section 2 discusses some properties ofPinyin place names.
Section 3 discusses the use offrequencies to help back-transliteration.
Section 4describes GeoName, our system to map English Pinyinplace names to Chinese characters.
Section 5 containssome evaluation of Geoname, and Section 6 containsour conclusion and future work.2 Pinyin Place NamesThe mapping from Chinese character to Pinyin is moreor less unique because the majority of Chinesecharacters have only one sound (with some exceptions).Given a Pinyin, however, there can be manyhomophonic candidate characters depending on whichsound it is.
When one encounters such a Pinyin entityambiguity can arise.
Even if the context specifies theplace precisely, there is still uncertainty as to its originalcharacter representation.
This is true for all entity typesrendered into Pinyin unless they are well known.
As anexample, the capital of China, Beijing, originates fromthe characters:?
?
Bei;  ?
?
jing.However, when back-transliterating from the English,the following are some of the possible mappings:Bei ?
{????fD? ?
}Jing ?
{?Dj.A?? ?
}Candidates like: ?j?
?? ?
are all possibleplace names in addition to the intended one.
In fact,these two are highly fertile Pinyin: ?Bei?
maps to 23 and?jing?
maps to 20, leading to a total of 460 possible pairs.Many of the pairs of course may not be used as placenames.It is possible to diminish the above ambiguity bycapturing also the tone of a Pinyin character as is donein most Chinese input systems that accept Pinyin asinput.
The simplest convention has five tones.
One tonecan be assigned to each character represented as Pinyin,and this can separate the mapped characters into tonalsets.
However, most printed or electronic texts such asnewspapers or newswires do not have tones assigned.Our system assumes input texts have no tonal indication,and so can be adapted to online text processing.Chinese place names are mostly two to threecharacters long.
Four-character names exist and longerones are possible.
Unlike person names where thefamily name character is selected from a fairly closedset, character use is practically unrestricted for places.This means that when mapping a Pinyin representationinto its original Chinese format, one can result in x^ycandidates, where y is the average number of possiblesingle character mappings for each of x syllables.
Tofurther complicate the issue, place names in Pinyin canbe separated with white spaces or not.
For example, therepresentation for ?\p, a place near Beijing, can bewritten as: 'Qin Huang Dao', ?QinHuangDao?
or'Qinhuangdao'.
The first item shows the originalcharacter one by one separated by a white space.
Thesecond item is a composite Pinyin denoting that thethree individual Pinyin should be treated as a singleentity.
Each individual Pinyin character however isinitialized with a capital letter.
The third item is like thesecond composite but without capital letter except forthe first character.
(For example, on 3/25/03, the NewYork Times reported a coalmine explosion at?Mengnanzhuang?
employing this style.)
All three stylescan be found in texts.
The first two indicate uniquesegmentation of the Pinyin characters.
The third stylehowever presents the additional problem ofsegmentation: how to recover the characters correctly.The string  'Qinhuangdao' may be broken up as 'Qinhuang dao', 'Qin huang da o', ?Qin hu ang dao?, etc.because it so happens that the listed components -- callthem syllables -- are all legitimate Pinyin.
Thus, the?Qinhuangdao?
composite can be either a three-, four- orfive-character entity.
One can imagine the exponentialincrease in candidates if each Pinyin syllable maps backto ~10 possibilities, for example.
There is a fourth stylethat employs an apostrophe to indicate syllableseparation in case of extreme ambiguity such as: Xian(?
province) and Xi?an (T^ the city).
This is veryuseful, like style one or two.
Unfortunately, none ofthese is mandatory.3 Mapping Pinyin to Chinese CharacterBack-transliteration is a difficult problem asexemplified in (Knight and Graehl 1997, Chen, et.al.1998).
We limit ourselves to text input of a place name.Let E = e1 e2 e3 .. eN be a given English place name withPinyin syllables ek, 1<=k<=N.
It may have originatedfrom a Chinese character sequence C = c1 c2 c3.. cN withprobability: P(C|E) = P(E|C)*P(C)/P(E).
P(E) can beignored, and P(E|C) is reduced to a product of P(ek|ck) ifindependence of ek with ej, and ek with cj (jk) areassumed.
Since most Chinese characters have uniquePinyin, we also set P(ek|ck) to a constant, leaving theunknown P(C).
If one has sufficient bilingual translationof place names, the neglected probability P(ek|ck) can beestimated.Hence P(C|E) is roughly reduced to P(C) up to aconstant.
The most probable Chinese character sequencecorresponding to the input Pinyin E is therefore equal tothe one argmax P(C), or P(C) can be used to rankcandidates C.  To estimate P(C), we initially used abigram model: P(C)~P(c1)*P(c2|c1)*P(c3|c2)..*P(cN|cN-1)which turns out to be less effective than the followingheuristic approach.
Instead of probability, we workwith occurrence frequencies of the string itself, bigrams,and single characters.
The function for ranking isg(C) = a1*log [f(C)+a1] + ?
a2*log [f(cicj)+a2]+ ?a3*log [f(ci)+a3]   (1)where f(.)
is frequency, and the sums run over allconsecutive bigrams and singles composing the string C,and ai, i=1,..3 are constants, which are larger for longerstrings.
A factor is not counted if its f(.)
is zero.
Whenstring C has been seen before, its effect is larger if thelength of C is longer.
If C does not exist, its componentbigram and single character frequencies determine theranking value g(C).
It is generally true that for acharacter string matching some dictionary entries orprevious use, the longer the length, the more legitimateit is.The issues raised in Section 2 are addressed asfollows.
Many Pinyin of the third style do lead tounique segmentation.
For those that do not, all possiblesegmentations are captured, but they are sorted longestspelling sequence (and minimum syllables) first: e.g.
inthe previous example, ?Qin huang dao?
is preferred over?Qin hu ang dao?.
The candidates (c1 c2 c3.. cN) for Eqn.1are limited to all possible combinations of charactersthat exist in the training data and can be mapped fromthe segmented Pinyin.
Because of limitation ofhardware, our prototype currently limits the number ofPinyin syllables to four in order to cut down on thenumber of candidates for certain input.4 GeoNameGeoName is designed to accept a Pinyin place name andsuggest Chinese GB-encoded candidates for it.Back-transliteration is an ambiguous and inaccurateprocess.
Also, non-standard romanization existshistorically for many common places names.
The systemdoes not yet have the capability to extract such namesfrom running text, but requires that each name be enteredon a separate line.
Each Pinyin name is subjected tosegmentation and character mapping, and a set ofcandidate GB-encoded Chinese names is produced asdiscussed in Section 2 and 3.
GeoName employs athree-step process to effect back-transliteration: 1) tablelookup on a bilingual place name list; 2) suggest namesbased on frequency usage of place characters and pairs; 3)confirmation via web retrieval or a monolingualgeographic list.
The following sub-sections presentdetails of our approach.4.1 Bilingual Place Name ListGeographic entities tend not to change much over time,and the number of places is relatively fixed, unlikeperson name for example.
Thus, it is a good strategy toproduce a lookup table to map place names betweenChinese and English.
It will give accurate translation; itcan handle 1:m mappings well when a Chinese namemay be represented differently due to different systemsof romanization, and is very efficient in real timecomputation.
The disadvantages are that it is difficult tolocate such a bi-list, it will not be complete, relativelyfixed, and it cannot suggest possible new names that arenot on the list.
We think such a list is an importantcomponent of any system that tries to do this kind ofmappings, as there would always be many well-knownplaces that have non-standard or peculiar romanization.From ftp://ftpserver.ciesin.columbia.edu/pub/data/China/CITAS/gb_code/ we located such a bi-list that containsabout 4K unique Chinese place names.
This we callList-A.
Using the English Pinyin as key, a direct hit onthis list will provide most probably the correct translationfor the input.
The first bit (A-bit) of a 3-bit tag would beset to 1, thus 100.
The tag is attached to each candidate.4.2 Place Name SuggestionThe total number of GB-encoded characters is about6,000, but around 2,500 are the most often used.
Sincewe limit our domain to geographical names here, we cancollect such names in monolingual Chinese text andestimate the probabilities for single and paired Chinesecharacters use in this context.
We employed similarmethods in our PYName system for person names and itworked reasonably well.
However, unlike person nameswhere many people may share the same name characters,geographic names tend to be relatively more unique, i.e.not too many places have similar characters in ourtraining data.
Thus, the effectiveness of using frequencyto suggest GB-encoded place names based on a givenPinyin name in English is more limited.
This iscompounded by the difficulty of finding a sufficientlylarge name list.
The main advantage of the probabilisticmapping exercise is to be able to suggest new names ascandidates by composing with characters, and rank themaccording to how characters appear in the monolingualname list as discussed in Section 3.The ranking formula in Eqn.
(1) has to be estimatedfrom some training data.
We failed to find sufficientdownloadable Chinese place names and employedBBN's IdentiFinder (Miller, et.al.
1999) that bracketslocation entities in running text.
The collections used arefrom the TREC and NTCIR experiments.
Locationnames were identified and extracted.
The result is about80K ?approximate place names?
called List-B.
Thesoftware is not perfect and many entries are not placenames, or contain several names together.
But the datacan still serve its purpose.4.3  Name ConfirmationTo improve the accuracy of candidate ranking obtainedin Section 4.2, we further use a process of confirmation.The hypothesis is that if a GB-encoded place namecandidate has been seen before, it has a high probabilityof being correct.
Each candidate name is compared to themonolingual Chinese name list consisting of (List-A UList-B).
If it exists, the second bit (B-bit) of the 3-bit tagis set giving 010.However, as suggested before, name lists are seldomcomplete.
To mitigate this problem, we also utilize theWord Wide Web for confirmation.
The basic idea is totreat WWW as another name collection, but a dynamicone.
The English Pinyin name is treated as a query andsent to a search engine (such as Google).
By using theadvanced search option to return GB-encoded documents,each candidate of the Pinyin is searched in the documentsto confirm whether it has been used as a sub-string.
Iftrue, the third C-bit of the tag is set giving 001.
Anotherbenefit of using the WWW is to resolve somedialect-based problems.
As an example, both ?HongKong?
and ?Xiang Gang?
as Pinyin place names havebeen found on web documents with the Chinese name n confirmed.
However, we do have to pay a price onperformance, since web searches are relatively slow.Another draw back is that, web confirmation is effectiveonly on popular, well-known names.
Otherwise, domainspecific name lists can be used if available.Thus, all candidates are tagged and rank valueassigned.
Our current strategy is to rank candidates bythe 3-bit tag first, followed by minimum syllable number,and then by g(C) of Eqn.1.
If a candidate is confirmedsomewhere, especially on our bi-list, it will be a goodtranslation.
Otherwise, shorter names are preferred.4.4 System DescriptionFig.1 below is a flowchart of GeoName showing how thedifferent functions are tied together.
Steps 2, 5 and 6 forbi-list lookup and confirmation can be enabled ordisabled.
Although our main focus is on Pinyin input,GeoName does have limited support in Step 3 for otherFig.1.
GeoName System Flowchartromanization systems such as Wade-Giles and HongKong Pinyin.
The system allows selection if the inputromanization convention is known.
A table convertsWade-Giles spelling into PRC Pinyin.
For Hong Kongstyle spelling, another table converts it directly into GBcharacter.
Example back-transliterations are shown onthe GUI screen of GeoName in Fig.2.
The 1st and 3rdnames are correct at rank 1, the 2nd at rank 2.5 Evaluation of GeoNameTo evaluate the performance of GeoName, we need totest a set of Chinese place names in English Pinyin andcompare the output from GeoName with the knownChinese characters for each name.
In essence, we needanother bi-list for testing, independent of the List-A thatwe used for training.
Bilingual lists are difficult to obtain.Eventually a bilingual map (Map of Peoples?
Republic ofChina 2001) with both Chinese and English namesprinted was located.
The test set consists of 162non-capital city names randomly selected from the map,six from each of the twenty-seven provinces excludingTaiwan (where some names are in Wade-Gilesconvention).
The rank position of the correct Chinesename for each Pinyin returned from GeoName was notedwithin top ten; else it is considered a failure.
We testedfour settings of the tag values, viz.
: 000 (only frequencyprediction), 001 (frequency and web confirmation), 010(frequency and monolingual list confirmation), and 111(full function).
A tabulation of the number of correctnames found vs. rank position is shown in Table 1.Rank12345678910>10tag = 00078 22 13 3 4 4 6 1 1 1 29tag = 00195 20 7 7 2 1 2 1 0 2 25tag = 01088 24 11 1 4 2 3 0 0 1 28tag = 111116 10 2 3 3 1 2 2 0 1 22Table1:  Number of Correct Candidates in Top TenThe result with tag=000 (using frequency only forcandidate suggestion) shows that 78 candidates out of162 (48%) are correct at rank 1, and 133 (82%) correctwithin top 10.
Both runs with tag=001 (add WWWconfirmation) or tag=010 (add monolingual List-A UList-B confirmation) improves over tag=000 results,especially at rank 1, bringing this percentage to 59% and54% respectively.
Web confirmation is expensive inprocessing time, and may be variable depending on thestate of the Web.
Monolingual list confirmation is useful,especially when one has a list that is more region-specific1.
English Pinyinplace name2.
Pinyin syllablesegmentation; get alpossible GB charactercombinations.3.Bilingualtablelookup4.
Merge candidates5.
MonolingualChinese namelist confirmation6.
WWWconfirmation7.
Evaluate probability; rankaccording to tag, namecharacter length, probabilityto the desired input names.
The best result is returnedwhen all the processes are employed including checkingon the bilingual List-A.
Apparently many of our inputnames appear on this list, and it leads to simpletable-lookup for the back-transliteration.
This is probablynot surprising because the bilingual map is not large(2?x3?
), and it would only show the more well- knowncities.
Thus for the tag=111 run, it is seen that the correctcandidates at rank 1 increase to 116 (71.6%), and if up torank 10 candidates are included, 140 (86.4%) of thecorrect names are identified.ConclusionWe have described GeoName, a system to back-transliterate English Pinyin geographic names toChinese characters based on bilingual list lookup,monolingual place name character frequency, and Webconfirmation.
Evaluation using Pinyin city names showsthat nearly 72% of the names suggested are correct atrank 1, and over 86% of correct names are included inthe top ten candidates.The evaluation is small involving only 162 citynames.
One needs larger scale studies with moreobscure names or names actually in use.
The resourceswe employed are rather limited.
We intend to improveour training data, as well as our formula for namesuggestion.
Bilingual resources are difficult to locate.We are exploring how to use the Web as a giganticbilingual name list in order to improve our systemfurther.AcknowledgmentsWe like to thank Beth Sundheim for suggesting theproblem and pointing out some geographic resources tous, and BBN for the use of their IdentiFinder software.This work was partially sponsored by the Space andNaval Warfare Systems Center San Diego, under GrantNo.
N66001-00-1-8912.ReferencesChen, H.H., Huang, S-J., Ding, Y-W. and Tsai, S-C.(1998) Proper name translation in cross-languageinformation retrieval.
Proceedings of COLING-ACL98.
pp.232-236.Knight, K. and Graehl, J.
(1997) Machine transliteration.Proceedings of 35th Annual Meeting of Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pp.
128-135.Kwok, K.L.
and Deng, Q.
(2002) Corpus-based PinyinName Resolution.
Proceedings of the First SIGHANWorkshop on Chinese Language Processing(COLING 2002).
pp.
41-47.Library of Congress Pinyin Conversion Project (2000).http://www.loc.gov/catdir/pinyin/outline.html.Map of the Peoples' Republic of China.
(2001)ISBN7-80544-601-6/K.573.
Chengdu CartographicPublishing House.
(http://www.ccph-map.com)Miller, D., Schwartz, R., Weischedel, R. and Stone, R.(1999) Named Entity Extraction from Broadcast News.Proceedings of DARPA Broadcst News Workshop.
pp.37-40.Fig.2: GUI of GeoName
