Conversational inferences: the hard way and the easy wayYukiko KawaguchiGraduate School of Science and TechnologyChiba University1-33, Yayoi-cho, Inage-ku, Chiba-shi, Chiba, 263-8522 Japanyukiko@cogsci.l.chiba-u.ac.jpKey words: conversational implicature,conversational maxims, the CooperativePrinciple, relrevance, conversational inferences,rationalityAbstractThis paper proposes a general theory of conversationalinferences which distinguishes two kinds of inferences:the hard way and the easy way.
The theory accounts fora wider range of non-literal utterance meanings thanGricean and relevance theories and is motivated by thetypes of utterances in which the hearer fails to infer non-literal meanings.1 IntroductionThis paper first characterizes the kinds of utterancemeanings in the sense of Grice and Levinsonwhich have not been consistently discussed in theexisting theories but are important in respect ofmanagement of dialog, secondly analyzes the typesof inference invoked by the hearer that derive thoseutterance meanings, and thirdly proposes a generaltheory of conversational inferences that accountsfor a wider range of non-literal utterance meaningsthan Gricean and relevance theories.
We will firstoutline Gricean theory of conversational implica-ture and relevance theory in order to give a generalunderstanding of how inferences are supposed towork in the hearer?s understanding of utterancemeanings, and to characterize the kinds of utter-ance meanings we are interested in.
Those utter-ance meanings are either what I call a case ofcapricious transition or a case of misplaced topics.Grice and his followers explain the first case butthey are not sure of what this type really is.
Theydo not explain the second case.
In discussingGricean theory as regards those cases, I stress theimportance of Grice?s concept of ?rationality.?
Therelevance theorists, on the other hand, have alsoexplained the first case to some extent, but areawkward in dealing with this case in terms of theprinciple of relevance.
Although they seem to havenoticed the second case, they have not stipulated agood enough explanation for it.To fill these lacunae in the existing theories, Ipropose to look at the conversational inferences interms of two major categories: the hard way andthe easy way.
The hard way inference is done bythe hearer, using the Cooperative Principle giventhe fact that one or more maxims are violated.
Theeasy way inference gives the hearer an output ofnon-literal meaning given the utterance of a certainkind in a certain context.
To understand the latterkind of inferences, we need the concept of ade-quacy.I extend Gricean theory by adding the conceptof adequacy of observance of the maxims, in orderto analyze those inexplicable cases.
When maximsare observed, they are observed adequately.
Whenwe say maxims are not observed, we mean they arenot observed in either of the two senses: namelyfailing to observe adequately or being observedbeyond the adequate level of observance.
Thehearer needs to know, for example, to what extentthe utterance is informative, relevant or perspicu-ous.
I suppose the hearer has to have a criterionwith which to judge whether the utterance observesa maxim or not, just because the judgment that ittriggers an inference needed to derive what ismeant from what is said.
This criterion cannot beabsolute but relative to what the hearer expects tobe adequate for the utterance to be observant of themaxim.If an observance of a maxim does not reachthe adequacy expected, the hearer can derive im-plicatures by the hard way.
But if the topic focusedon by the speaker is different from the one thehearer expected, maxims would be observed be-yond the adequate level.
In this case, the hearerfails to derive implicatures by the hard way, or de-rives implicatures by the easy way.
What is new inthis theory is that a failure of derivation by thehearer can be explained by stipulating the twokinds of inferences.
The notion of a failure of deri-vation is necessary.
In the case where the hearerfails to derive useful implicatures, the hearershould first notice that the derivation breaks down,and then the hearer will decide to resume the con-versation again.
I analyze the case of capricioustransition as a case of the easy way inference, andthe case of misplaced topics as a failure of the hardway inference.In this paper I describe the overall mechanismof how the hearer understands utterance meanings.The hearer may understand the literal meaning ofan utterance, but there are cases where she has toinfer or derive non-literal meanings.
Sometimesshe infers by what I call the hard way, and reachparticularized or generalized conversational impli-catures.
Sometimes she understands non-literallyby using the easy way inference, either getting toconventional implicatures, which I do not look intoin this paper, or particularized conversational im-plicatures.
One part of the particularized conversa-tional implicatures have been discussed andanalyzed by relevance theory.
The other part arethe cases of misplaced topics and capriciouslytransition, which I pay special attention in this pa-per.2 Gricean theory and relevance theory2.1 Gricean theoryIn Grice?s program, we derive what is unsaid whenit is unnatural to understand what is literally said,on the assumption that observance of the Coopera-tive Principle and maxims is reasonable.
There areseveral ways in which the hearer understands anutterance non-literally.
I focus on one subtype ofwhat is unsaid, which Grice calls ?conversationalimplicatures?.
The typical case of deriving conver-sational implicatures in Gricean theory is the casewhere the Cooperative Principle is observed, andone or more of maxims is not observed*1.
(1)  H: What time is it?S: Some of the guests are already leaving.The gloss can be that the speaker doesn?t know theexact time, or doesn?t want to tell the hearer di-rectly, and that the speaker thinks that saying?Some of the guests are already leaving?
gives thehearer a clue to know what time it is.
In this case,the maxims of quantity and relation are not ob-served, and an inference that leads to the implica-ture gets involved.In some cases, the speaker?s utterance cannot ob-serve one or more of the maxims because of the?clash?
of the maxims.
(2)   H: Where does X lives?S: Somewhere in the south of France.In (2), the speaker cannot observe one or two ofthe maxims of Quantity because she doesn?t sayenough.
But if she tried to observe the maxims ofQuantity by saying exactly where X lives, shewould violate the maxims of Quality in the sensethat she said what she didn?t know.Grice says, in his lectures ?Logic and Con-versation,?
that he would like to conclude thatobservance of the Cooperative Principle andmaxims is reasonable, without defining what?being reasonable?
means.
After that he discussedrational acceptance in his book ?Aspects ofReason.?
I take for the discussion in this paper thatbeing reasonable means speaking with justifiablegrounds.
If we suppose that observance of theCooperative Principle and maxims is reasonable,the content which the hearer expects to be theimplicature of the speaker?s utterance may bederived in the way that the utterance satisfies themaxim which is violated or at least gives thereason for violation, in typical cases where the1 Grice and Levinson admit the case where the Coopera-tive Principle and all the maxims are observed to thetheory of conversational implicatures.
I have refuted thisanalysis by showing the counterexamples in my paper2001 (in Japanese).
The violation of a maxim should benoticed at the literal level.
In my opinion, the utterancesin their examples violate the maxims actually.
So I cate-gorized the cases which they regard as the case of utter-ance observing all the maxims as the case of violation ofthe maxims at the literal level.cases where the Cooperative Principle is observedand at least one maxim is not observed.
What isimplicated in the case (1) is, for example, that thespeaker doesn?t know the exact time.
So this im-plicature satisfies the maxim of relation, for itmakes the utterance relevant and acceptable by thehearer.
In the case (2), the speaker?s utterance im-plicates the reason that the speaker doesn?t sayenough.
The speaker cannot observe one maxim ofquantity, because if the speaker tried to observeone maxim of quantity by giving enough informa-tion, she would violate the maxims of quality, inthe sense that she said what she didn?t know.
Thiscase was called the case of ?clash?
of the maximsby Grice.2.2 Relevance theorySperber and Wilson?s relevance theory follows upGricean theory, but is different from Gricean the-ory in the following two senses: first, they don?tneed strong heuristics such as Gricean maxims andthe Cooperative Principle, so they do not have toassume the violation of the speaker?s utterancewhich triggers the inference needed in Grice?s pro-gram to derive what is unsaid from what is literallysaid.
Second, their theory, allegedly, can be ap-plied to all kinds of the ostensive inferences.
Theyintroduced the principle of relevance, which is tobe always observed by participants.
In relevancetheory, they treat relevance as a relation between aproposition P and a set of contextual assumption{C}.
A proposition P is relevant in a context {C} ifand only if P has at least one contextual implica-tion in {C}.
The hearer always assumes that thereis relevance, and tends to extract the maximal in-ferential effects for the minimal cognitive effort.3 Capricious transition and misplacedtopicsNevertheless, there are types of utterances whichare neither explained by the theory of Gricean con-versational implicature nor by the relevance theo-retic mechanism.
We sometimes fail to deriveimplicatures, and repeat the utterance to thespeaker or start the conversation over again.
Theseare the cases of what I name capricious transitionand misplaced topics*2.
Illustrations follow:(3)   H: Mrs. X is an old bag.S: The weather has been delightful thissummer, hasn?t it?In this Grice?s case, the speaker capriciouslychanges the topic.
I call this case the case of capri-cious transition.
Both Gricean and relevance theo-ries have proposed theoretical mechanisms withwhich to derive the implicature that the speakerdoesn?t want to talk about the matter.
But I don?tthink either theory is successful in explaining thiscase, because it is possible for the hearer to inter-pret the utterance differently, for example, as im-plicating that the speaker doesn?t hear the utterance,or that she thinks the talk of Mrs. X is over and juststarts the new conversation.What the speaker says could be interpretedto observe the Cooperative Principle and all themaxims, if the hearer doesn?t want the reply to herutterance ?Mrs.
X is an old bag.?
It may be thecase that the speaker just started a new conversa-tion, or that the speaker didn?t hear the hearer?sutterance.
Such interpretations are perfectly normal.In our daily conversations, we hear utterancesmade with unexpected change of topics or a newchunk of conversation starting with a totally newtopic.
Apparently, we simply do not derive, insuch cases, implicatures from what is literally said.This case was explained by Grice as a caseof violation of the maxim of relation.
In Griceantheory, the hearer?s inference is to be triggered bythe violation of the maxim of relation.
But this caseof violation of the maxim of relation is differentfrom the case of violation of other maxims in thesense that the content of the non-literal meaningderived by the hearer in this case is neither the fact2 In the two cases I present here, the speaker's intention doesn'tseem important.
In Grice's original theory of meaning, thespeaker's intention plays an important role in deriving non-literal meanings.
But the hearer cannot know that the non-literal meaning derived by herself is exactly what the speakerintends to convey.
So it is unneccesary to assume what thespeaker wants to convey for deriving non-literal meanings.
Inthe actual course of conversations, there is no difference be-tween the case where the hearer assumes the speaker's inten-tion and the case where the hearer doesn't assume the speaker'sintention in deriving non-literal meanings.
I suspect the con-cept of the speaker's intention might be spurious in the theoryof conversational inference.that the utterance satisfies that maxim which isviolated as in (1), nor the fact that it gives the rea-son that the speaker?s utterance cannot observe thatmaxim which is violated as in (2).
This case ispuzzling giving Gricean theory alone.In relevance theory, on the other hand, it isby assuming that the proposition expressed or atleast the content of the speaker?s utterance is rele-vant in the context that the hearer will derive thenon-literal meaning that the speaker doesn?t wantto talk about the subject.
But their theory is notsuccessful in explaining cases where the hearerinterpret that the speaker doesn?t hear the hearer?sutterance.
In relevance theory, the hearer is ex-pected to tend to extract the maximal effect by theminimal effort.
The hearer, in this case, shouldspend more effort until she extracts positive cogni-tive effects, but when she understands that thespeaker has not heard her utterance, she has to giveup the efforts and extracting effects from what thespeaker literally says, finally to understand thatwhat the speaker has said has no relevance to theprevious utterance.
What is missed in relevancetheoretical mechanism is the criteria that allow thehearer to stop the effort.
If the hearer tried to getthe implicature which is relevant to the previousutterance at all cost, she could by no means inter-pret that the speaker didn?t hear the utterance.The other case which is neither explainedby Gricean theory nor by relevance theory is a casewhere we decide not to derive implicature fromwhat is literally said in the course of conversation.
(4)   H1: Have you done it?S: I?ve made a reservation for you.H2: What?
Oh no, I?m talking about the book.I call this case the case of misplaced topics.
In thiscase, the hearer thinks that the speaker misplacesthe topic.
The hearer stops deriving implicaturesfrom what is literally said.
There is no sense in de-riving implicatures from what is literally said inthis case because the hearer judges that the topicthe speaker is talking about is different from theone that the hearer expected.
The hearer doesn?t?infer?
the non-literal meanings in terms ofGricean theory, because she doesn?t suppose anyviolation of a maxim.
She just tries to let thespeaker focus on the topic she wanted to talk aboutby saying H2.Relevance theory also cannot explain thiscase, because there is no relevance in terms of theprinciple of relevance.
In relevance theory, ahearer derives utterance meanings assuming thatthe proposition expressed is relevant to the context.But in this case, the hearer can only know that thespeaker is talking about a reservation by the prin-ciple of relevance.
However the hearer may spendeffort to extract the utterance meaning by enrichingor loosening the term a reservation, it is impossi-ble for the hearer to know that what the speakersays is out of the context and that the speaker mis-places the topic.
We cannot derive the meaningthat the speaker misplaces the topic from the mean-ing that the speaker is talking about the reservation.The relevance theoretic mechanism cannot bridgethe gap between these two meanings.
In the case(4), how can the hearer know that the speaker mis-places the topic in terms of relevance theory?
Thecontext is given in relevance theory.
But in order tounderstand that the speaker misplaces the topic inthis case, the hearer has to alter the context.Moreover, if the hearer?s interpretation in (3)can be that the speaker doesn?t want to talk aboutthe subject, then it also can be the hearer?s inter-pretation in (4).
But we don?t think that the inter-pretation is more appropriate than theinterpretation in which the speaker misplaces thetopic.
Even if we take the possibility of contextualdependence into consideration, the hearer mustgive up deriving implicatures at some stage so asto understand that the speaker has misplaced thetopic.
Relevance theorists would say that the hearerstops conversational inferences when her expecta-tions of relevance are satisfied.
But in the case (4),the hearer?s expectations of relevance will never besatisfied, because the hearer has to notice the utter-ance?s irrelevance to the context so that the hearermay infer the utterance meaning that the speaker issaying quite another thing.The problem in the cases (3) and (4) is howand why the hearer fails to derive implicatures.
Aspreviously mentioned, there are roughly two typesof implicatures in view of Grice?s notion of ration-ality.
One is telling the hearer something else byviolation; the other is giving the reason that thespeaker cannot observe a certain maxim.
But whatthe hearer understands in the two cases in questionis neither the satisfying of a maxim nor the givingof the reason for violation.
Rather there is no sensein assuming what the speaker says observes themaxims, since what the speaker says in these casesis beyond the hearer?s expectations.
So we have toexamine the mechanism the hearer utilizes in esti-mating and judging the observance of the maxims.4 The observance adequacy of the max-imsI propose to extend Gricean theory by adding theconcept of adequacy of observance of the maxims.It is beneficial to extend Gricean theory in the fol-lowing two reasons: firstly, we often need reasonsto explain why we derive a certain implicature.
Wehave to leave the door open for the possibility ofdescribing the process of derivation conducted bythe hearer herself, even if the reasons are after-thoughts and if the process is not exactly what shehas done in her mind at that time.
We have to beresponsible for implicatures.
Further, relevancetheoretical inferences have the potential of devel-oping to Gricean theoretical inferences which needthe violation of maxims to be invoked.
In the case(2), the implicature that the speaker doesn?t knowexactly where X lives can be drawn both inGricean theory and in relevance theory.
So the twotheories are equally able to explain this case.
But ifyou are asked why you think that the speakerdoesn?t know exactly where X lives, you will ex-plain the reason in the following manner: thespeaker would say exactly where X lives, if sheknew it, so I infer the meaning that she did notknow.
This explanation is based on the hearer?sassumption that the speaker?s utterance observesthe maxims, in which the conversational inferenceis triggered by the violation of a certain maxim atthe literal level.
We might not need to assume themaxims in the course of actual derivation, but wehave to develop the Gricean process which seemsreasonable when we describe it to others.Secondly, as discussed in Levinson?s work,there must be the generality of implicatures, that is,what Grice calls the generalized implicatures.
Forexample, we generally think that ?some?
means?not all?
in conversations.
Similarly, we generallythink that a certain utterance implicates a certainimplicature, other things being equal.
It is plausible,for example, that ?somewhere in the south ofFrance?
in (2) implicates that the speaker doesn?tknow exactly where, unless we assume the contextin which the speaker is not going to cooperate withthe hearer.
This assumption of being uncooperativeis not general.
Therefore, I would like to constructmy theory on the ground of Gricean theory.Gricean theory has importance to know what wethink is inference conceptually.The hearer fails to derive implicatures in thecases of capricious transition and misplaced topics,because the hearer doesn?t judge whether the utter-ance observes the maxims or not, in the same wayas in (1) or (2).
What the hearer understands in (3)and (4) seems to be some sort of implicatures, butthat neither satisfies the maxims nor gives the rea-son for violation.
This kind of utterance meaningsis puzzling, because Gricean maxims are scarcelyable to contribute to the derivation.
Therefore, wehave to clarify how we assume the observance ofthe maxims.In the Grice?s program, even in the typicalcases such as (1) and (2), the adequacy of obser-vance of the maxims is not clear.
It is not clear, forexample, to what extent the utterance is informa-tive, or perspicuous*3.
We think that what thespeaker says in (1) is not relevant and not informa-tive enough intuitively.
However, in the case of themaxims of quantity for example, there is no meas-ure of ?being as informative as is required?
and?not being more informative than is required?.
Bywhom is it requires to be informative?
Of courseby the hearer.
The hearer has to have some crite-rion with which to judge whether the utterance ob-serves a maxim or not.According to this criterion of adequacy, thehearer can notice that there is no sense in assumingobservance of the maxims in (3) and (4).
I distin-guish the two kinds of inferences in relation to thisconcept of adequacy of observance of the maxims.The utterance observes the maxims less adequately,and the hearer can make use of literal informationand derive implicatures, which satisfies the maximthat is violated or gives the reason for the violationby the Gricean way of inferences.
I call this typeof inference the hard way.
The utterance observesthe maxims beyond the adequate level, the hearer3 Regarding the adequacy of observance of the maxims, I ha-ven?t mentioned the observance adequacy of the maxims ofquality because it seems incomprehensible how the hearer?tries to make her contribution one that is true?
adequately,because we don?t have the notion of being adequately true.The observance of maxims of quality, however, must havesome connection to that of maxims of quantity.
The hearerwouldn?t care whether surplus information is true or not, for itis not necessary.
We need more detailed argument on thisissue, so I refrain from discussing it in this paper.cannot make use of literal information for deriva-tion, so the inference by the hard way will breakdown.
Then the hearer will suppose that thespeaker doesn?t participate in the conversation, orthat she has not heard the hearer?s utterance.
Thistype of inference I call the easy way.
After I ex-plain the hard way and the easy way inferences, Iwill show the connection between the adequacy ofobservance of the maxims and the two ways ofinferences.5 The hard way and the easy wayI introduce the dichotomy of conversational infer-ences: the hard way and the easy way.
The dichot-omy is justified by Grice?s discussion in ?Aspectsof reason,?
where he distinguishes ?the hard way?from ?the quick way.?
The dichotomy proposedhere is not the same as the distinction betweenGrice?s two types of inference, and, in particular,the easy way described below is different fromwhat Grice called the quick way.
Grice?s quickway is ?a substitute for the hard way, which ismade possible by the habituation and intention?.But my easy way is not a substitute for the hardway but it is a different kind of inference than thehard way.
The best part of the non-literal meaningsGrice explained successfully is the inference by thehard way, namely the inference that derives con-versational implicature.
Part of the easy way in-ferences are those inferences discussedsuccessfully by relevance theory, which fails todescribe the important subset of the easy way in-ference that take place in the cases of misplacedtopics and capricious transition.5.1 The hard wayThe inference by the hard way is to make the utter-ance acceptable and understandable by the hearerby deriving utterance meanings from what thespeaker literally says.
This type of inference hasbeen familiar to us since Grice?s Harvard lectures.I view this way of inference as derivation by wayof literal input.
In other words, the hearer makesuse of the proposition expressed at the literal levelin order to derive implicatures.
The hearer judgesthat the utterance doesn?t observe a certain maxim,and starts to infer non-literal meanings.
In thecases of the maxims of quantity or the maxim ofrelation, the utterance gives the hearer less infor-mation, or less great relevance than the hearer re-quires, but there remains something that the hearercan make use of.
The cases (1) and (2) exemplifythis type.
The hearer derives implicatures that itsatisfies the maxim which is violated, or gives thereason for the violation at the literal level.In the cases (3) and (4), the hearer cannotderive implicatures by the hard way.
When the lit-eral meanings are useless for derivation, or whenthe hearer can get only useless consequences, thehearer fails to derive implicatures by the hard way.For instance, the hearer will say ?What??
to theprevious speaker to indicate that she has failed toderive useful implicatures, or she will start theconversation over again.
The case of misplacedtopics is explained as a failure of the hard way,when the hearer says ?what??
to indicate that shedid hear what the speaker says but couldn?t under-stand it.
In the case (4), the hearer cannot deriveuseful implicature, so she indicates that she hasn?tunderstood what the speaker says on the assump-tion that the utterance observes the maxims.
Thenshe retries conversation.
Thus, given the notion ofa failure of the hard way, the case of non-understandings can be explained in the theory ofconversational inferences.
In the case (4), thehearer starts to envisage why she doesn?t under-stand the speaker?s utterance.
I would say that thenon-literal meaning that the speaker must havemisplaced the topic is derived by the easy way.5.2 The easy wayThe easy way inferences are less effort demanding,need fewer steps than the hard way inferences.
Inthe easy way inferences, we normally have twosteps alone: the literal input and the non-literaloutput, and that?s it.
Even the speaker?s emotionscould be taken as utterance meanings, as in thecase where the speaker doesn?t want to talk aboutthe subject.
The typical example is the case of ca-pricious transition.
The following example beauti-fully illustrates the easy way inference:(5)  H: I finished writing that story and it?s goingto be published.S: When?The gloss of what the speaker says could be eitherof the following two interpretations: ?when didyou finish writing that story??
or ?when is it goingto be published??
The selection one of these twointerpretations is by the easy way.
The hearer usesthe literal input, ?when,?
in the process of extract-ing the potential interpretations, but the literal in-put is not informative enough to justify theselection of one or the other.
There is no decisivefactor so that the hearer is free to take whichevershe likes.
The hearer doesn?t need to have reasonsfor deriving utterance meanings on the ground ofthe violation of a certain maxim, but just connectswhat the speaker says with whatever the hearerunderstands.
The hearer can derive what is sup-posed to be implicated from what is literally saiddirectly without using the literal input as indicatesthe violation of a maxim.5.3 The connection between the adequacy andthe two ways of inferencesThere is a reason for having two kinds of inferencerather than one uniform kind.
It depends on theobservance adequacy which the hearer expects.
Ifwhat the speaker says observes the CooperativePrinciple and some of the maxims, her contributionis, for example, less informative, or less relevant.But there remains something we can make use offor derivation, because the information or the rele-vance is not zero.
If what the speaker says doesn?tseem to observe any of the maxims, or what thespeaker says doesn?t seem to have any connectionwith the previous utterance, then the speaker?s con-tribution conveys no information, or bears no rele-vance.
So we cannot make inferential steps usingthe literal input in the same way as the hard way.Then we connect the input with the output directly.But we should note that a failure of the hard waydoesn?t always make us shift to the easy way.
It islikely, in some cases, first to fail by the hard wayand then to try deriving an utterance meaning bythe easy way.
But the hard way process doesn?tprecede the easy way process theoretically, andvice versa.
The choice of process depends on thehearer, and thus the theory has to be based on thedichotomy of conversational inferences.Now there are five cases an inference-based theory of language understanding has to givean account of.
They are[1] the case of the literal meaning understood liter-ally[2] the case of the typical Gricean conversationalimplicature[3] the case of regular relevance theoretic inference[4] the case of capricious transition[5] the case of misplaced topicThe inferential process for the regularGricean conversational implicature can be de-scribed as follows: The hearer gets what is literallysaid, and measures the adequacy of observance,and if the utterance observes the maxims less thanadequately, then the hearer starts the hard way in-ference on the assumption that the speaker?s con-tribution is rationally acceptable, and derivesimplicatures.The inferential process for the regular rele-vance theoretical mechanism can be described asfollows: the hearer gets what is literally said, andmeasures the adequacy of observance of the max-ims.
If the hearer wants to derive utterance mean-ings further by enriching what is literally said, onthe assumption that the utterance is relevant in thecontext, in spite of the utterance observing the Co-operative Principle and all the maxims*4, then thehearer starts the easy way inference and derivesimplicatures.
In a case which is similar to (5) butwhich offers only one option on condition that theutterance is relevant to the given context, thehearer derives utterance meanings by the same wayas the relevance theoretic inference which I sub-sume under the category that is I call the easy way.Now when the hearer fails to derive impli-catures by the hard way, she will start the conver-sation over again.
It is the case of a failure of thehard way inference when the hearer doesn?t noticethat the topic of the speaker?s utterance is differentfrom the one the hearer expected and says ?what?
?to the speaker.
That is the case (5) of misplacedtopics.And it is by the easy way that the hearercomes to know that the speaker misplaces the topic.The hearer gets what is literally said, and measuresthe adequacy of observance of the maxims, and ifthe utterance is far from being adequately obser-vant of the maxims, then the hearer starts the easyway inference and derives implicatures.
The infer-ences in this case can be based on anything, forexample, the hearer?s frame of mind.
The case ofcapricious transition (4) is of this type.
Utterancesto start and to change the topic are classified in thistype, though the existent theories have not given4 I suppose that what the hearer understands in the case wherethe utterance observes the Cooperative Principle and all themaxims includes explicatures in the sense of relevance theory.any theoretical status to this type of utterances.6 ConclusionOn the basis of the concept of rational acceptancein conversations, I have extended Gricean theoryby adding the concept of observance adequacy ofthe maxims, and have defined two distinct types ofinference in terms of the concept of observanceadequacy.
Hearers derive utterance meanings indifferent ways based on the different level of ade-quacy of observance of the maxims measured.
Theextended Gricean theory now can describe all waysthe hearer derives utterance meanings in all cases.The relations between different kind of inferencesand their coverage are shown in Fig 1.We still have four more problems to reallycomplete the theory of conversational inferences.1) We need to give more consideration to the na-ture of those inferences.
Specifically, we have tojustify the assertion that the easy way inference isan inference, because it seems to be different innature from inferences Gricean theorists havethought of.2) I have not distinguished implicatures from whatthe hearer understands explicitly.
I surmise that, atthe level of derivation, failing to understand thespeaker and assuming the reason for non-understanding are different (such as assuming thatthe speaker misplaces the topic, which would makethe hearer retry the conversation).
I suspect thelatter will be explained as a kind of meta-level in-ference, but we need more arguments and evidence.3) The notion of ?being rational?
should be studiedfurther.
It is not clear what Grice meant by sayingthat the derivation in interpreting utterance mean-ings is a rational activity.
We have to know a sortof measure or extent of being rational.
Theoreti-cally, anything goes by the easy way inference.
Butwe would reject some interpretation because it be-ing too hard to justify.
It would be an importantissue in the general theory of conversational infer-ence to characterize the mechanism the hearer usesin keeping herself from not drawing too inappro-priate utterance meanings.4) The solution I provide in this argument is notfully formalized yet.
I suspect one possible formal-ization can be given by using the DRT by treatingthe cases of misplaced topics and capricious transi-tion in terms of inaccessibility in the DRT, al-though further independently motivatedelaboration is necessary in the theory to formalizethe case of being inaccessible.
As far as I know, Idon't know that the DRT can formalize the case ofbeing inaccessible well, for example, when a pro-noun has no referent in any previous discourses.
Insuch cases the sentence in question might seem tobe ungrammatical, or at least not understandableunanimously, but in the two cases I have presented,the hearer notices that the speaker refers to theother referent than the one the hearer wants to referto.ReferencesAsher, N., and A. Lascarides.
(1998) Questions in Dia-logue.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 23.2, pp.237-309,Kluwer Academic Publishers.Davies, B.
(2000) Grice?s Cooperative Principle: Get-ting the meaning across.
Leeds Working Papers in Lin-guistics and Phonetics 8.Davis, S., Ed.
(1991) Pragmatics: A Reader.
Oxford:Oxford University Press.Grice, H. P. (1989) Studies in the Way of Words.
Cam-bridge: Harvard University Press.Grice, H. P. (2001) Aspects of Reason, Ed.
R. O. War-ner, Oxford: Oxford University Press.Kawaguchi, Y.
(2001)  The logical relation between theCooperative Principle and the maxims in Grice.
Journalof the Philosophy of Science Society, Japan 34-2.pp.101-116Levinson, S. C. (1983) Pragmatics.
Cambridge: Cam-bridge University Press.Levinson, S. C. (2000) Presumptive Meanings.
Cam-bridge, MA: MIT Press.Sperber, D., and D. Wilson.
(1986).
Relevance: Com-munication and Cognition.
Oxford: Blackwell.
(2nd ed.1995).Fig.
1understanding meaningunderstanding literally ?
[1]   understanding non-literally, i.e., inferentiallygenconimpinfereneralizedversationallicatureGrice,Levinson ce by the hard way  inference by the easy wayparticularized               particularizedconversational        conversationalimplicature     implicature(?
)relevant ?
[3]         irrelevant?
[4] [5]GriceGricerelevancetheory?
[2]conventionalimplicature
