Learning Formulation and Transformation Rules forMultilingual Named EntitiesHsin-Hsi Chen Changhua Yang Ying LinDepartment of Computer Science and Information EngineeringNational Taiwan UniversityTaipei, TAIWAN, 106{hh_chen, d91013, b88034}@csie.ntu.edu.twAbstractThis paper investigates three multilingualnamed entity corpora, including namedpeople, named locations and namedorganizations.
Frequency-basedapproaches with and without dictionaryare proposed to extract formulation rulesof named entities for individual languages,and transformation rules for mappingamong languages.
We consider the issuesof abbreviation and compound keyword ata distance.
Keywords specify not only thetypes of named entities, but also tell outwhich parts of a named entity should bemeaning-translated and which part shouldbe phoneme-transliterated.
Anapplication of the results on crosslanguage information retrieval is alsoshown.1 IntroductionNamed entities are major components of adocument.
Capturing named entities is afundamental task to understanding documents(MUC, 1998).
Several approaches have beenproposed to recognize these types of terms.
Forexample, corpus-based methods are employed toextract Chinese personal names, and rule-basedmethods are used to extract Chinese date/timeexpressions and monetary and percentageexpressions (Chen and Lee, 1996; Chen, Ding andTsai, 1998).
In the past, named entity extractionmainly focuses on general domains and isemployed to various applications such asinformation retrieval (Chen, Ding and Tsai, 1998),question-answering (Lin, et al, 2001), and so on.Recently, several attempts have been extended tomine knowledge from biomedical documents(Hirschman, et al, 2002).Most of the previous approaches dealt withmonolingual named entity extraction.
Chen et al(1998) extended it to cross-language informationretrieval.
A grapheme-based model was proposedto compute the similarity between Chinesetransliteration name and English name.
Lin andChen (2000) further classified the works into twodirections ?
say, forward transliteration (Wan andVerspoor, 1998) and backward transliteration(Chen et al, 1998; Knight and Graehl, 1998), andproposed a phoneme-based model.
Lin and Chen(2002) employed a machine learning approach todetermine phonetic similarity scores for machinetransliteration.
AI-Onaizan and Knight (2002)investigated the translation of Arabic namedentities to English using monolingual and bilingualresources.The past works on multilingual named entitiesemphasizes on the transliteration issues.
However,the transformation between named entities indifferent languages is not transliteration only.
Themapping may be a combination of meaningtranslation and/or phoneme transliteration.
Thefollowing five English-Chinese examples showthis issue.
The symbol A ?
B denotes a foreignname A is translated and/or transliterated into aChinese name B.
(s1) Victoria Fall?
??????
(wei duo li ya pu bu)(s2) Little Rocky Mountains?
?????
(xiao luo ji shan mo)(s3) Great Salt Lake ?
???
(da yan hu)(s4) Kenmare ?
???
(kang mei er)(s5) East Chicago ?
????
(dong zhi jia ge)Example (s1) shows a name part (i.e., Victoria)and a keyword part (i.e., Fall) of a named locationare transliterated and translated into ??????
(wei duo li ya) and ????
(pu bu), respectively.In Example (s2), the keyword part (i.e., Mountains)is still translated, i.e., ????
(shan mo), however,some part of name is translated (i.e., Little ?
???
(xiao)) and another part is transliterated (i.e.,Rocky ?
????
(luo ji)).
Example (s3) shows anextreme case.
All the three words are translated(i.e., Great ?
???
(da)), Salt ?
???
(yan), Lake?
???
(hu)).
Examples (s4) and (s5) show twolocation names without keywords.
The former istransliterated and the latter is a combination oftransliteration and translation.Which part is translated and which part istransliterated depends on the type of named entities.For example, personal names tend to betransliterated.
For a location name, name part andkeyword part are usually transliterated andtranslated, respectively.
The organization namesare totally different.
Most of constituents aretranslated.
Besides the issue of the named entitytypes, different language pairs have differenttransformation rules.
German named entity hasdecompounding problem when it istranslated/transliterated, e.g., Bundesbahn ?
???????
(lian bang tie lu ju) and Bundesbank ???????
(lian bang yin hang).This paper will study the issues of languagesand named entity types on the choices oftranslation and transliteration.
We focus on threemore challenging named entities only, i.e., namedpeople, named locations and named organizations.Three phrase-aligned corpora will be adopted ?
say,a multilingual personal name corpus and amultilingual organization name corpus compiledby Central News Agency (abbreviated CNApersonal name and organization corpora hereafter),and a multilingual location name corpus compiledby National Institute for Compilation andTranslation of Taiwan (abbreviated NICT locationname corpus hereafter).
We will extracttransliteration/translation rules from thesemultilingual named corpora.
This paper isorganized as follows.
Section 2 introduces thecorpora used.
Section 3 shows how to extractformulation rules and the transformation rules.Section 4 analyzes the results.
Section 5demonstrates the application of the extracted ruleson cross language information retrieval.
Section 6concludes the remarks.2 Multilingual Named Entity CorporaNICT location name corpus which was developedby Ministry of Education of Taiwan in 1995collected 19,385 foreign location names.
Eachentry consists of three parts, including foreignlocation name, Chinese transliteration/translationname, and country name, e.g., (Victoria Fall, ????????
(wei duo li ya pu bu), South Africa),(Little Rocky Mountains, ???????
(xiao luoji shan mo), USA), etc.
The foreign locationnames are in English alphabet.
Some locationnames denoting the same city have more than oneform like Firenze and Florence for a famous Italiancity.
The former is an Italian name and the latter isits English name.
They correspond to twodifferent transliterations in Chinese, respectively,i.e., ?????
(fei leng cui) and ??????
(foluo lun si).
The pronunciation of the foreignnames in NICT corpus is based on Webster?s NewGeographic Dictionary.
The foreign name itselfmay be a transliteration name.
A Japanese city istransliterated in English alphabet, but itscorresponding translation name is in Kanji (Hanziin Japanese).
It is hard to capture theirrelationships except dictionary lookup, so thatJapanese location name is out of our discussion.We employ the country field to select thetranslation/transliteration pairs that we will dealwith in this paper.
Table 1 summarizes thestatistics of NICT corpus based on country tags.Table 1.
Statistics of NICT CorpusCountry Frequency Percentage Country Frequency PercentageUSA 3,012 15.5% Korea 574 3.0%UK 1,073 5.5% Brazil 433 2.2%Russia 961 5.0% German 395 2.0%Japan 796 4.1% Italy 379 2.0%Canada 692 3.6% Spain 370 1.9%France 679 3.5% Mexico 324 1.7%India 679 3.5% Others 8,413 43.5%Australia 603 3.1% Total 19,385 100%CNA personal name and organization corporaare used by news reporters to unify the nametransliteration/translation in news stories.
Thereare 50,586 pairs of foreign personal names andChinese transliteration/translation in persona namecorpus.
Different from NICT corpus, there do notexist clear cues to identify the nationality of namedpeople.
Thus, we could not exclude the Japanesenames like ?Hayakawa?
and the correspondingname ???
?
(zao chuan) from our discussionautomatically.
There are 14,658 namedorganizations in CNA corpus.
Some organizationnames are tagged with the country names to whichthey belong.
For example, ?Aachen TechnicalUniversity?
?
??????
(ya ken ji shu daxue) (Germany).
But not all the organizationnames have such country tags.
Comparatively,organization names are longer than the other twonamed entities.
Table 2 shows the statistics ofNICT organization name corpus.
FL denotes thelength of foreign names in words, CL denotes thelength of Chinese names in characters, and Countdenotes the number of foreign names of thespecified length.3 Rule Mining3.1 Frequency-Based Approach with aBilingual DictionaryWe postulate that a transliterated term is usually anunknown word, i.e., not listed in a lexicon and atranslated term often appears in a lexicon.
Underthis postulation, a translated term occurs moreoften in a corpus, and comparatively, atransliterated term only appears very few.A simple frequency-based method willcompute the frequencies of terms and use them totell out the transliteration and translation parts in anamed entity.
Because Chinese has segmentationproblem, we start the frequency computation fromthe foreign name part in a multilingual namedentity corpus.
The method is sketched as follows.
(1) Compute the word frequencies of eachword in the foreign name list.
(2) Keep those words that appear more than athreshold and appear in a common foreigndictionary (e.g., an English dictionary).
Thesewords form candidates of simple keywords.
(3) Examine the foreign word list again.Table 2.
Statistics of CNA Organization CorpusFL Count CL FL Count CL FL Count CL1 1,773 4.73 7 425 9.94 13 10 14.202 3,622 4.98 8 223 10.50 14 6 12.003 3,751 6.30 9 122 10.98 15 5 17.004 2,406 7.28 10 53 11.57 16 2 14.505 1,434 8.27 11 32 13.41 18 1 9.006 775 8.97 12 17 12.35 20 1 15.00Those word strings that are composed of simplekeyword candidates are candidates of compoundkeywords.
We find out the compound keyword setby using collocation metric by selecting the mostfrequently occurring compounds through the well-known elimination of prepositions.
(4)Because the experimental corpus is aligned,we can cluster the Chinese name list based onforeign keywords.
For each Chinese name cluster,we try to identify the Chinese keyword sets.
Herea bilingual dictionary may be consulted.The above algorithm extracts foreign/Chinesekeyword sets from a multilingual named entitycorpus.
In the meantime, formulation rules forforeign names and Chinese counterparts are mined.A complete foreign name and a complete Chinesename are mapped into name-keyword combination.By the way, which method, translation ortransliteration, is used is also determined.Take NICT location name corpus as anexample.
The terms of frequencies greater than 20include River (?, he), Island (?, dao), Lake (?,hu), Mountain (?, shan), Bay (?, wan), Mountain(?, feng), Peak (?, feng), Islands (?
?, qun dao),Mountains (?
?, shan mo), Cape (?, jiao), City(?, cheng), Range (?, ling), Peninsula (?
?, bandao), Point (?, jiao), Strait (?
?, hai xia), River(?, chuan), Gulf (?, wan), Cape (?, jia), Pass(??
, shan kou), Plateau (??
, gao yuan),Headland (?, jia), Harbor (?, gang), Sea (?, hai),Promontory (?, jia), and Hills (?
?, qui ling).On the one hand, a foreign location keyword, e.g.,?Mountain?, may correspond to two Chineselocation keywords, e.g., ??
?
(shan) and ??
?(feng).
On the other hand, the same Chineselocation keyword ???
(feng) can be translated intotwo English location keywords ?Mountain?
and?Peak?.Similarly, suffix and prefix for organizationnames can be extracted from CNA organizationname corpus.
Some high frequent keywords areshown as follows.
(1) SuffixParty (?, dang), Association (?
?, xiehui), University (?
?, da xue), Co.
(?
?, gongsi), Committee (??
?, wei yuan hui), Company(?
?, gong si), Bank (?
?, yia hang), etc.
(2) PrefixInternational (?
?, guo ji), World (?
?,shi jie), American (?
?, mei guo), National (?
?,quan guo), Japan (?
?, ri ben), National (?
?,guo jia), Asian (?
?, ya zhou), etc.3.2 Keyword Extraction without a BilingualDictionaryAt the step (4) of the algorithm in Section 3.1, abilingual dictionary is required.
Becauseabbreviation is common adopted in translation,dictionary-based approach is hard to capture thisphenomenon.
A named organization ?WorldTaiwanese Association?
which is translated into?????
(shi tai hui) is a typical example.
Theterm ?World?
is translated into an abbreviated term???
(shi) rather than a complete term ????
(shijie).
Here another approach without dictionary isproposed.
Suppose there are M pairs of (foreignname, Chinese name) in a multilingual namedentity corpus.
The jth pair, 1 ?
j ?
M, is denoted by{Ej, Cj}, where Ej is a foreign named entity, and Cjis a Chinese named entity.
Then some Chinesesegment c ?
Cj should be associated with someforeign segment e ?
Ej.
Consider the followingexamples.
(s6) Aletschhorn Mountain ?
??????
(s7) Catalan Mountain ?
????
(s8) Cook Strait ?
????
(s9) Dover, Strait of ????
?We will align ???
(shan) and ????
(hai xia) toMountain and Strait, respectively, from theseexamples.We further decompose the named entities.
Ifa named entity Ej comprises m words w1?w2?wm,then a candidate segment ep, q is defined as wp ?
wq,where 1 ?
p ?
q ?
m.  If a Chinese named entity Cjhas n syllables s1?s2?sn, then a candidate segmentcx, y is defined as sx ?
sy, where 1 ?
p ?
q ?
n.Theoretically, we can get2)1(2)1( +?+ nnmm pairs of{ep, q, cx, y} from {Ej, Cj}.
We then group the pairscollected from the multilingual named entity listand count the frequency for each occurrence.Those pairs with higher frequency denotesignificant segment pairs.
In the above examples,both the two pairs {Mountain, ???
(shan)} and{Strait, ????
(hai xia)} appear twice, while theother pairs appear only once.All the pairs {e, c} whose frequency > 2 arekept.
Two issues have to be addressed.
The first is:redundancy which may exist in the pairs ofsegments should be eliminated carefully.
If a pair{e, s1 s2 ?
st} occurs k times, then the frequencyof t?
(t+1)/2 substrings (1 ?
u ?
v ?
t) is at least k.The second is: e may be translated to more thanone synonym, which has the same prefix, suffix, orinfix.
In examples (s10) and (s11), ?Association?may be translated into ????
(xie hui) and ?????
(lian yi hui), where ???
(hui) is a commonsuffix of these two translation equivalents, so thatits frequency is more than the translationequivalents.
(s10) World Trade Association ?
??????
(s11) North Europe Chinese Association ???????
?These two issues may be mixed together to makethis problem more challengeable.A metric to deal with the above issues isproposed.
The concept is borrowed from tf?idfscheme in information retrieval to measure thealignment of each foreign segment and the possibleChinese translation segments.
Assume there are Nforeign segments.
Term frequency (tf) of aChinese translation segment ci in e denotes thenumber of occurrences of ci in e.  Documentfrequency (df) of ci is the number of foreignsegments that ci is translated to.
We prefer to theChinese translation segment that occur frequentlyin a specific foreign segment, but rarely in theremainder of foreign segments.
Besides, we alsoprefer the longer Chinese segment, so that thelength of a Chinese segment, i.e., |ci|, is alsoconsidered.=}),({ icescore)1|(|log)(}),({ 2 +??
iii ccidfcef   (1)}),{(max}),({}),({jjii cetfcetfcef =   (2)))((log)( 2ii cdfNcidf = ,   (3)For some e, the corresponding Chinese segment cis obtained by equation (4).
}),({maxarg iccescoreci=   (4)In this way, we can produce a ranking list of pairsof (foreign segment, Chinese segment), whichform multilingual keyword pairs.3.3 Extraction of Transformation RulesWe apply the keyword pairs extracted in the lastsection to the original named entity list.
In (s6)-(s9), (mountain, ?
(shan)) and (strait, ??
(haixia)) are significant keyword pairs.
We replace thenon-keywords of Ej and Cj with patterns ?
and ?,respectively, get the following rules.(s6?)
?
mountain ?
?
?(s7?)
?
mountain ?
?
?(s8?)
?
Strait ?
???(s9?)
?, Strait of ?
???(s6?)
and (s7?)
can be grouped into a rule.
As aresult, a set of transformation rules can beformulated.
From these examples, Chineselocation name keyword tends to be located in therightmost and the remaining part is a transliteratedname.
On the counterpart, foreign location namekeyword tends to be either located in the rightmost,or permuted by some prepositions, comma, and thetransliterating part.3.4 Extraction of Keywords at a DistanceThe algorithm proposed in Section 3.2 can dealwith single keywords and connected compoundkeywords.
Now we will extend it to keywords at adistance.
Consider examples (s12)-(s15) at first.
(s12) American Podiatric medical Association?
????????
(s13) American Public Health Association?
????????
(s14) American Society for Industrial Security?
????????
(s15) American Society of Newspaper Editors?
?????????
(s12) and (s13) show that an English compoundkeyword is separated and so is its correspondingChinese counterpart.
In contrast, the Englishcompound keyword is connected in (s14) and (s15),but the corresponding Chinese translation isseparated.
The phenomenon appears quite often inthe translation of organization names.We introduce a symbol ?
to cope with thedistance issue.
The original algorithm is modifiedas follows.
A candidate segment cp, q is defined asa string that begins with sp and ends with sq.
Eachsyllable from sp-1 to sq-1 can be replaced by ?.Therefore, both ep, q and cx, y are extended to 2(p-q-1),and 2(x-y-1) instances, respectively.
For example,the following shows some additional instances for?American Civil Liberties Union?.
?American ?
Liberties Union?
?American Civil ?
Union?
?American ?
Union?The scoring method, i.e., formulas (1)-(4), is stillapplicable for the new algorithm.
Nevertheless,the complexity is different.
The complexity of theoriginal algorithm is O(m2n2), but the complexityof the algorithm here is O(2m2n), where m is theword count for a foreign named entity and n is thecharacter count for a Chinese named entity.The mining procedure is performed onlyonce, and the mined rules are employed in anapplication without being recomputed.
Thus, therunning time is not the major concern of this paper.Besides, the N is bounded in a reasonable smallnumber because the length of a named entity isalways rather shorter than that of a sentence.
Table2 shows that 93.88% of foreign names in CNAorganization name corpus consist of less than 7words.4 Experimental ResultsThe algorithm in Section 3.2 was performed onNICT location name corpus, and CNA personalname and organization corpora.
With thisalgorithm, we can produce a ranking list of pairs of(foreign segment, Chinese segment), which formmultilingual keyword pairs.
Individual foreignsegments and Chinese segments are regarded asformulation rules for foreign languages andChinese, respectively.
When both the twoTable 3.
Learning StatisticsNICT LOC CNA ORG CNA PER# of records in corpus 18,922 14,658 50,586# of records for learning 5,714 12,885 100Vocabulary size 18,220 11,542 50,315# of keyword pairs 122 5,229 12# of transformation rules 230# of successful records 4,262segments are considered together, they form atransformation rule.
Table 3 summarizes theresults using the frequency-based approach withoutdictionary.
For named locations, there are 18,922records, of which, only 5714 records consist ofmore than one foreign word.
In other words,13,208 named locations are single words, and theyare unique, so that we cannot extract keywordsfrom these words.
Total 122 keyword pairs areidentified.
We classify these keyword pairs intothe following types:(1) Meaning translationTotal 69 keywords belong to this type.
Itoccupies 56.56%.
They are furtherclassified into three subtypes.
(a) common location keywordsBesides the English locationkeywords mentioned in Section 3.1,some location keywords in otherlanguages are also captured, includingBir ?
?
(jing), Ain ?
?
(quan),Bahr ?
?
(he), Cerro ?
?
(shan),etc.
(b) direction (e.g., Low  ?
?
(xia),Central ?
?
(zhong), East  ?
?
(dong), etc.
), size (e.g., Big ?
?
(da)), length (e.g, Long ?
?
(zhang)), color (e.g., Black ?
?
(hei), Blue ?
?
(lan), etc.
)(c) the specificity of place or area such asCrystal ?
??
(jie jing), Diamond?
??
(zuan shi), etc.
(2) Phoneme transliteration keywordsSome morphemes are transliterated such asel ?
?
(la), Dera ?
??
(de la), Monte?
??
(meng te), Los ?
??
(luo si),Le ?
?
(le), and so on.
Besides, somecommon transliteration names are alsoregarded as keywords, e.g., Elizabeth ?????
(yi li sha bai), Edward ?
???
(ai de hua), etc.
Total 39 terms belong tothis type.
It occupies 31.97%.
(3) Some keywords in type (1) aretransliterated.
For example, Bay ?
?
(Bay), Beach ?
??
(bi qi), mountain ???
(meng tan), Little ?
??
(li te), etc.Total 14 keywords (11.48%) are extracted.Total 230 transformation rules are mined fromthe NICT location corpus.
On the average, akeyword pair corresponds to 1.89 transformationrules.
Consider a keyword pair mountain ?
?
(shan) as an example.
Four transformation rulesshown as follows are learned, where ?
and ?denote keywords for foreign language and Chinese,respectively; ?
is a Chinese transliteration of aforeign fragment ?
; the number enclosed inparentheses denotes frequency the rule is applied.
(1) ??
?
??
(234)(2) ?, ?
?
??
(45)(3) ?, ??
?
??
(1)(4) ???
?
??
(1)When we apply the 230 transformation rules backto the 5,714 named locations, we can tell out whichpart is transliterated and which part is translatedfrom 4,262 named locations.
It confirms ourpostulation that a named location is composed oftwo parts, i.e., one is translated and the other one istransliterated.Comparatively, there are 50,586 personalnames in CNA personal names, but only 100named people are composed of more than oneword.
The number of keywords extracted is only afew.
They are listed below.De ?
?
(dai), La ?
?
(la), De La ?
??
(dai la), Van Der ?
??
(fan de), Du ?
?
(du),David ?
??
(da wei), Khan ?
?
(han), Del ??
(dai), Le ?
?
(le), Van Den ?
??
(fandeng), Di ?
?
(di)It shows that personal names tend to betransliterated and the CNA personal name corpusis suitable for training the similarity scores amongphonetic characters (Lin and Chen, 2002).Finally, we consider the named organizations.There are 14,658 records in CNA organizationcorpus.
Total 12,885 organization names arecomposed of more than one word.
The percentage,87.90%, is the highest among these three corpora.Besides that, 5,229 keyword pairs are extracted.Most of the keyword pairs are meaning translated.This set is also the largest among the three corpora.Thus, the keyword pairs are too small and too largeto find suitable transformation rules for personalnames and organization names, respectively.Although the original idea of our algorithm isuniversal for languages, it should be modifiedslightly for some specific languages.
Thefollowing takes German as examples.
Germanwords have cases and genders.
Most of Germanwords are compound.
Consider examples (s16)-(s19).
(s16) Neue Osnabruecker ?
???????
(s17) Neues Deutschland ?
???
(s18) Bundesbahn ?
?????
(s19) Bundesbank ?
???
?The first two examples show the German adjectiveNeu (New) has different suffixes such as ?-e?
and?-es?
according to the case and gender of the noun.The last two examples suggest that morphologicalanalysis for decompounding the words intomeaningful segments is necessary before ouralgorithm.5 Application on CLIRCross language information retrieval (CLIR)facilitates using queries in one language to accessdocuments in another.
Because named entities arekey components of a document, they are usuallytargets that users are interested in.
Figure 1 showsan application of the extracted formulation rulesand transformation rules on Chinese-Foreign CLIR.For each document in the Foreign collection,named entities are recognized and classified byusing formulation rules.
They form importantindices for the related documents.
When a Chinesequery is issued, the system extracts the possibleChinese named entities according to Chineseformulation rules.
If keywords are specified in aquery, we know the structure and the type of thenamed entity.
The lexical structure tells us whichpart is translated and which part is transliterated.The backward transliteration method proposedby Lin and Chen (2000, 2002) was followed toselect the most similar English named entity andthe related documents at the same time.
In Lin andChen?s approach, both Chinese name and Englishcandidates will be transformed into a canonicalform in terms of International Phonetic Alphabets.Similarity computation among Chinese query termand English candidates are done on phoneme level.Figure 1.
A Chinese-Foreign CLIR SystemForeignDocumentCollectionQueryTranslation/TransliterationInformationRetrievalSystemRelevantDocumentsNamed EntityExtractorTransliterationKnowledgeBilingualDictionaryChinese QueryChinese-ForeignTransformationRulesChineseFormulationRulesForeignFormulationRulesRuleMinerMulti-LingualNamed EntityCorporaNamed EntityExtractorThat is an expensive operation.
Hopefully, thetype of Chinese named entity will help to narrowdown the number of candidate.6 Conclusion and RemarksThis paper proposes corpus-based approaches toextract the formulation rules and the translation/transliteration rules among multilingual namedentities.
Simple frequency-based method identifieskeywords of named entities for individuallanguages and their correspondence.
The modifiedtf?idf scheme deals with the issues of abbreviationand compound keyword at a distance.Since the corpora are already phrase-aligned,the mined rules cover at least a significant numberof instances.
That is, they seem to be significant,but further evaluation is needed.
Two types ofevaluation are being conducted, i.e., direct andindirect approaches.
In the former, we willpartition the corpora into two parts, one fortraining and the other one for testing.
In the latter,we are integrating our method in a cross languageinformation retrieval system.
Given a queryconsisting of Chinese named entity, the Chineseformulation rules will tell us its type and lexicalstructures.
The transformation rules show whichparts should be translated and transliterated.
Ourprevious works on phoneme transliteration isintegrated.
The transformation result may besubmitted to an information retrieval system toaccess documents in another language.
In theongoing evaluation, the test bed is supported byCLEF (2003).
The result will be reported inCLEF2003 after evaluation by CLEF organizer.Further applications will be explored in the futureand the methodology will be extended to othertypes of named entities.ReferencesAl-Onaizan, Yaser and Knight, Kevin (2002)?Translating Named Entities Using Monolingual andBilingual Resources,?
Proceedings of 41st AnnualMeeting of Association for Computational Linguistics,2002, pp.
400-408.Chen, Hsin-Hsi and Lee, Jen-Chang (1996)?Identification and Classification of Proper Nouns inChinese Texts,?
Proceedings of 16th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics, 1996, pp.222-229.Chen, Hsin-Hsi; Ding, Yung-Wei and Tsai, Shih-Chung(1998) ?Named Entity Extraction for InformationRetrieval,?
Computer Processing of OrientalLanguages, Special Issue on Information Retrievalon Oriental Languages, 12(1), 1998, pp.
75-85.Chen, Hsin-Hsi et al (1998) ?Proper Name Translationin Cross-Language Information Retrieval,?Proceedings of 17th COLING and 36th ACL, pp.
232-236.CLEF (2003) Cross-Language Retrieval in ImageCollections, Pilot Experiments, 2003.Hirschman, L.; Park, J.C.; Tsujii, J.; Wong, L. and Wu,C.H.
(2002) ?Accomplishments and Challenges inLiterature Data mining for Biology,?
Bioinformatics,18(12), pp.
1553-1561.Knight, Kevin and Graehl, Jonathan (1998) ?MachineTransliteration,?
Computational Linguistics, 24(4),pp.
599-612.Lin, Chuan-Jie; Chen, Hsin-Hsi; et al (2001) ?OpenDomain Question Answering on HeterogeneousData,?
Proceedings of ACL Workshop on HumanLanguage Technology and Knowledge Management,2001, pp.
79-85.Lin, Wei-Hao and Chen, Hsin-Hsi (2000) ?SimilarityMeasure in Backward Transliteration betweenDifferent Character Sets and Its Application toCLIR,?
Proceedings of Research on ComputationalLinguistics Conference XIII, pp.
79-113.Lin, Wei-Hao and Chen, Hsin-Hsi (2002) ?BackwardMachine Transliteration by Learning PhoneticSimilarity,?
Proceedings of 6th Conference onNatural Language Learning, 2002.MUC (1998) Proceedings of 7th MessageUnderstanding Conference, 1998,http://www.itl.nist.gov/iaui/894.02/related_projects/muc/index.html.Wan, Stephen and Verspoor, Cornelia Maria (1998)?Automatic English-Chinese Name Transliterationfor Development of Multilingual Resources,?Proceedings of 17th COLING and 36th ACL, pp.1352-1356.
