Annotating the Propositions in the Penn Chinese TreebankNianwen XueDept.
of Computer and Info.
ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104, USAxueniwen@linc.cis.upenn.eduMartha PalmerDept.
of Computer and Info.
ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104, USAmpalmer@linc.cis.upenn.eduAbstractIn this paper, we describe an approach toannotate the propositions in the Penn Chi-nese Treebank.
We describe how diathe-sis alternation patterns can be used tomake coarse sense distinctions for Chi-nese verbs as a necessary step in anno-tating the predicate-structure of Chineseverbs.
We then discuss the representationscheme we use to label the semantic argu-ments and adjuncts of the predicates.
Wediscuss several complications for this typeof annotation and describe our solutions.We then discuss how a lexical databasewith predicate-argument structure infor-mation can be used to ensure consistentannotation.
Finally, we discuss possibleapplications for this resource.1 IntroductionLinguistically interpreted corpora are instrumentalin supervised machine learning paradigms of natu-ral language processing.
The information encodedin the corpora to a large extent determines what canbe learned by supervised machine learning systems.Therefore, it is crucial to encode the desired level ofinformation for its automatic acquisition.
The cre-ation of the Penn English Treebank (Marcus et al,1993), a syntactically interpreted corpus, played acrucial role in the advances in natural language pars-ing technology (Collins, 1997; Collins, 2000; Char-niak, 2000) for English.
The creation of the PennChinese Treebank (Xia et al, 2000) is also begin-ning to help advance technologies in Chinese syn-tactic analysis (Chiang, 2000; Bikel and Chiang,2000).
Since the treebanks are generally syntac-tically oriented (cf.
Sinica Treebank (Chen et al,to appear)), the information encoded there is ?shal-low?.
Important information useful for natural lan-guage applications is missing.
Most notably, signifi-cant regularities in the predicate-argument structureof lexical items are not captured.
Recent effort insemantic annotation, the creation of the Penn Propo-sition Bank (Kingsbury and Palmer, 2002) on topof the Penn English Treebank is beginning to ad-dress this issue for English.
In this new layer ofannotation, the regularities of the predicates, mostlyverbs, are captured in the predicate-argument struc-ture.
For example, in the sentences ?The Congresspassed the bill?
and ?The bill passed?, it is intu-itively clear that ?the bill?
plays the same role in thetwo occurrences of the verb ?pass?.
Similar regular-ities also exist in Chinese.
For example, in ?
/this/CL /bill /pass /AS?
and ?
/Congress/pass /AS /this /CL /bill?, ?
/bill?also plays the same role for the verb ?
/pass?
eventhough it occurs in different syntactic positions (sub-ject and object respectively).Capturing such lexical regularities requires a?deeper?
level of annotation than generally providedin a typical syntactically oriented treebank.
It alsorequires making sense distinctions at the appropriategranularity.
For example, the regularities demon-strated for ?pass?
does not exist in other senses ofthis verb.
For example, in ?He passed the exam?and ?He passed?, the object ?the exam?
of the tran-sitive use of ?pass?
does not play the same role asthe subject ?he?
of the intransitive use.
In fact, thesubject plays the same role in both sentences.However, how deep the annotation can go is con-strained by two important factors: how consistentlyhuman annotators can implement this type of anno-tation (the consistency issue) and whether the an-notated information is learnable by machine (thelearnability issue).
Making fine-grained sense dis-tinctions, in particular, has been known to be dif-ficult for human annotators as well as machine-learning systems (Palmer et al, submitted).
It seemsgenerally true that structural information is morelearnable than non-structural information, as evi-denced by the higher parsing accuracy and relativelypoor fine-grained WSD accuracy.
With this in mind,we will propose a level of semantic annotation thatstill can be captured in structural terms and add thislevel of annotation to the Penn Chinese Treebank.The rest of the paper is organized as follows.
In Sec-tion 2, we will discuss the annotation model in de-tail and describe our representation scheme.
We willdiscuss some complications in Section 3 and someimplementation issues in Section 4.
Possible appli-cations of this resource are discussed in Section 5.We will conclude in Section 6.2 Annotation ModelIn this section we describe a model that annotatesthe predicate-argument structure of Chinese pred-icates.
This model captures the lexical regulari-ties by assuming that different instances of a pred-icate, usually a verb, have the same predicate argu-ment structure if they have the same sense.
Defin-ing sense has been one of the most thorny issuesin natural language research (Ide and Vronis, 1998),and the term ?sense?
has been used to mean differ-ent things, ranging from part-of-speech and homo-phones, which are easier to define, to slippery fine-grained semantic distinctions that are hard to makeconsistently.
Determining the ?right?
level of sensedistinction for natural language applications is ul-timately an empirical issue, with the best level ofsense distinction being the level with the least granu-larity and yet sufficient for a natural language appli-cation in question.
Without gearing towards one par-ticular application, our strategy is to use the struc-tural regularities demonstrated in Section 1 to definesense.
Finer sense distinctions without clear struc-tural indications are avoided.
All instances of a pred-icate that realize the same set of semantic roles areassumed to have one sense, with the understandingthat not all of the semantic roles for this verb sensehave to be realized in a given verb instance, and thatthe same semantic role may be realized in differentsyntactic positions.
All the possible syntactic real-izations of the same set of semantic roles for a verbsense are then alternations of one another.
Thisstate of affairs has been characterized as diathe-sis alternation and used to establish cross-predicategeneralizations and classifications (Levin, 1993).
Ithas been hypothesized and demonstrated that verbssharing the same disthesis alternation patterns alsohave similar meaning postulates.
It is equally plausi-ble to assume then that verb instances having differ-ent diathesis alternation patterns also have differentsemantic properties and thus different senses.Using diathesis alternation patterns as a diagnos-tic test, we can identify the different senses for averb.
Alternating syntactic frames for a particularverb sense realizing the same set of semantic roles(we call this roleset) form a frameset and share sim-ilar semantic properties.
It is easy to see that eachframeset, a set of syntactic frames for a verb, corre-sponds with one roleset and vice versa.
From nowon, we use the term frameset instead of sense forclarity.
Each frameset consists of one or more syn-tactic frames and each syntactic frame realizes oneor more semantic roles.
One frame differs from an-other in the number and type of arguments its pred-icate actually takes, and one frameset differs fromanother in the total number and type of argumentsits predicate CAN take.
This is illustrated graphi-cally in Figure 1.Annotating the predicate-argument structure in-volves mapping the frameset identification informa-tion for a predicate to an actual predicate instance inthe corpus and assign the semantic roles to its argu-ments based on the syntactic frame of that predicateinstance.
It is hoped that since framesets are definedthrough diathesis alternation of syntactic frames, thedistinctions made are still structural in nature andthus are machine-learnable and can be consistentlyannotated by human annotators.So far our discussion has focused on semantic ar-VerbFS                    FS               FS                 ......          FSFR FR FR......FR ji.....Argk Arg ArgArg0 1 20        1   20 1 2FS = Frameset       FR = Syntactic Frames       Arg = ArgumentsFigure 1: Annotation modelguments, which play a central role in determiningthe syntactic frames and framesets.
There are otherelements in a proposition: semantic adjuncts.
Com-pared with semantic arguments, semantic adjunctsdo not play a role in defining the syntactic framesor framesets because they occur in a wide variety ofpredicates and as a result are not as discriminative assemantic arguments.
On the other hand, since theycan co-occur with a wide variety of predicates, theyare more generalizable and classifiable than seman-tic arguments.
In the next section, we will describe arepresentation scheme that captures this dichotomy.2.1 Representing arguments and adjunctsSince the number and type of semantic argumentsfor a predicate are unique and thus define the seman-tic roles for a predicate, we label the arguments fora predicate with a contiguous sequence of integers,in the form of argN, where is the integer between0 and 5.
Generally, a predicate has fewer than 6 ar-guments.
Since semantic adjuncts are not subcate-gorized for by the predicate, we use one label argMfor all semantic adjuncts.
ArgN identifies the argu-ments while argM identifies all adjuncts.
An argNuniquely identifies an argument of a predicate evenif it occupies different syntactic positions in differentpredicate instances.
Missing arguments of a predi-cate instance can be inferred by noting the missingargument labels.Additionally, we also use secondary tags to gen-eralize and classify the semantic arguments and ad-juncts when possible.
For example, an adjunct re-ceiving a  tag if it is a temporal adjunct.
Thesecondary tags are reserved for semantic adjuncts,predicates that serve as arguments, as well as certainarguments for phrasal verbs.
The 18 secondary tagsand their descriptions are presented in Table 1.11 functional tags for semantic adjunctsADV adverbial, default tagBNF beneficiaryCND conditionDIR directionDGR degreeFRQ frequencyLOC locativeMNR mannerPRP purpose or reasonTMP temporalTPC topic1 functional tag for predicate as argumentPRD predicate6 functional tags for arguments to phrasal verbsAS , , ,AT ,INTO , ,ONTOTO ,TOWARDS ,Table 1: List of functional tags3 ComplicationsIn this section we discuss several complications inannotating the predicate-argument structure as de-scribed in Section 2.
Specifically, we discuss thephenomenon of ?split arguments?
and the annota-tion of nominalized verbs (or deverbal nouns).3.1 Split ArgumentsWhat can be characterized as ?split arguments?
arecases where a constituent that occurs as one argu-ment in one sentence can also be realized as mul-tiple arguments (generally two) for the same pred-icate in another sentence, without causing changesin the meaning of the sentences.
This phenomenonsurfaces in several different constructions.
One suchconstruction involves ?possessor raising?, where thepossessor (in a broad sense) raises to a higher posi-tion.
Examples 1a and 1b illustrate this.
In 1a, thepossessor originates from the subject position andraises to the topic1 position, while in 1b, the pos-sessor originates from the object position and raises1In Chinese, it is possible to have a topic in addition to thesubject.
The topic is higher than the subject and plays an im-portant role in the sentence (Li and Thompson, 1976).to the subject position.
The exact syntactic analysisis not important here, and what is important is thatone argument in one sentence becomes two in an-other.
The challenge is then to capture this regularitywhen annotating the predicate-argument structure ofthe verb.1.
Possessor Raisinga.
Subject to Topic(IP (NP-PN-TPC /China)(NP-TMP /last year)(NP-SBJ /import-export/total volume)(VP /exceed(QP-OBJ /325 Billion(CLP /US.
Dollar))))/exceedarg0-psr: /Chinaarg0-pse: /import-export /total volumearg1: /325 Billion /US.
Dollar(IP (NP-TMP /last year)(NP-SBJ (DNP (NP-PN /China)/DE)(NP /import-export/volume))(VP /exceed(QP-OBJ /325 Billion(CLP /US.
Dollar))))/exceedarg0: /China /DE /import-export/volumearg1: /325 Billion /US.
Dollarb.
Object to Subject(IP (NP-SBJ (NP-PN /China)(NP /economy/expansion))(VP (ADVP /also)(ADVP /will)(VP /slow down(NP-OBJ /speed)))/slow downarg1-psr: /China /economy /expansionarg1-pse: /speed(IP (NP-SBJ (DNP (NP (NP-PN /China)(NP /economy/expansion)))(NP /speed))(VP (ADVP /also)(ADVP /will)(VP /slow down))/slow downarg1: /China /economy /expansion/DE /speedAnother case of ?split arguments?
involves the co-ordinated noun phrases.
In 2a, for example, the co-ordinated structure as a whole is an argument to theverb ?
/sign?.
In contrast, in 2b, one piece of theargument, ?
/China?
is realized as a noun phraseintroduced by a preposition.
There is no apparentdifference in meaning for the two sentences.2.
Coordination vs. Prepositional phrasea.
(IP (NP-PN-SBJ /Burma/and/China)(VP (ADVP /already)(VP /sign/ASP(NP-OBJ /border/trade/agreement))))/signarg0: /Burma /and /Chinaarg1: /border /trade /agreementb.
(IP (NP-PN-SBJ /Burma)(VP (ADVP /already)(PP /with(NP-PN /China))(VP /sign/ASP(NP-OBJ /border/trade/agreement))))/signarg0-crd: /Burmaarg0-crd: /Chinaarg1: /border /trade /agreementThere are two ways to capture this type of regu-larity.
One way is to treat each piece as a separateargument.
The problem is that for coordinated nounphrases, there can be arbitrarily many coordinatedconstituents.
So we adopt the alternative approachof representing the entire constituent as one argu-ment.
When the pieces are separate constituents,they will receive the same argument label, with dif-ferent secondary tags indicating they are parts of alarger constituent.
For example, in 1, when pos-sessor raising occurs, the possessor and possesseereceive the same argument label with different sec-ondary tags psr and pse.
In 2b, both ?
/China?and ?
/Burma?
receive the label arg0, and the sec-ondary label crd indicates each one is a part of thecoordinated constituent.3.2 NominalizationsAnother complication involves nominalizations (ordeverbal nouns) and their co-occurrence with lightand not-so-light verbs.
A nominalized verb, whileserving as an argument to another predicate (gen-erally a verb), also has its own predicate-argumentstructure.
For example, in 3, the predicate-argumentstructure for ?
/doubt?
should be ?
( ,)?, where all the arguments of ?
/doubt?are embedded in the NP headed by ?
/doubt?.The complication arises when the nominalized nounis a complement to another verb, as in 4, wherethe subject ?
/reader?
is an argument to boththe verb ?
/produce?
and the nominalized verb?
/doubt?.
More interestingly, the other argument?
/this /CL /news?
is realized as an adjunct tothe verb (introduced by a preposition) even thoughit bears no apparent thematic relationship to it.It might be tempting to treat the verb?
/develop?
as a ?light verb?
that does nothave its own predicate-argument structure, but thisis questionable because ?
/doubt?
can also take anoun that is not a nominalized verb: ?
/I /towards/she /develop /LE /feeling?.
In addition,there is no apparent difference in meaning for?
/develop?
between this sentence and 4, so thereis little basis to say these are two different senses ofthis verb.
So we annotate the predicate-argumentstructure of both the verb ?
( , )?
and thenominalized verb ?
( , )?.3.
(IP (NP-SBJ (NP /reader)(DNP (PP /towards(NP (DP /this(CLP /CL))(NP /news))))(NP /doubt))(VP /deepen/LE))/deepenarg1: /reader /towards /this /CL/news4.
(IP (NP-SBJ /reader)(VP (PP-DIR /towards(NP (DP /this(CLP /CL))(NP /news)))(ADVP /too)(VP /will(VP /develop(NP-OBJ /doubt)))))/developarg0: /readerarg1: /doubt4 ImplementationTo implement the annotation model presented inSection 2, we create a lexical database.
Each entry isa predicate listed with its framesets.
The set of pos-sible semantic roles for each frameset are also listedwith a mnemonic explanation.
This explanation isnot part of the formal annotation.
It is there to helphuman annotators understand the different semanticroles of this frameset.
An annotated example is alsoprovided to help the human annotator.As illustrated in Example 5, the verb ?
/pass?has three framesets, and each frameset correspondswith a different meaning.
The different meaningscan be diagnosed with diathesis alternations.
Forexample, when ?
/pass?
means ?pass through?,it allows dropped object.
That is, the object doesnot have to be syntactically realized.
When it means?pass by vote?, it also has an intransitive use.
How-ever, in this case, the verb demonstrates ?subject ofthe intransitive / object of the transitive?
alternation.That is, the subject in the intransitive use refers tothe same entity as the object in the transitive use.When the verb means ?pass an exam, test, inspec-tion?, there is also the transitive/intransitive alterna-tion.
Only in this case, the object of the transitivecounterpart is now part of the subject in the intran-sitive use.
This is the argument-split problem dis-cussed in the last section.
The three framesets, rep-resenting three senses, are illustrated in 5.5.
Verb: /passFrameset.01: , /pass throughRoles: arg0(?passer?
), arg1(?place?
)Example:(IP (NP-SBJ /train)(VP (ADVP /now)(VP /pass(NP-OBJ /tunnel)))).01/passarg0: /trainarg1: /tunnelargM-ADV: /now(IP (NP-SBJ /train)(VP (ADVP /now)(VP /pass))).01/passarg0: /trainargM-ADV: /nowFrameset.02: , ( , )/pass(an exam, etc.
)(IP (NP-SBJ (DNP (NP /he)/DE)(NP /drug inspection))(VP (ADVP /not)(VP /pass))).02/passarg1: /he /DE /drug inspection(IP (NP-SBJ (NP /he)(VP (ADVP /not)(VP /pass)))(NP-OBJ /drug inspection)).02/passarg1-psr: /hearg1-pse: /drug inspectionFrameset.03: /pass (a bill, a law, etc.
)(IP (NP-PN-SBJ /the U.S./Congress)(VP (NP-TMP /recently)(VP /pass/ASP(NP-OBJ /interstate/banking law)))).03/passarg0: /the U.S.arg1: /interstate /banking law(IP (NP-SBJ (ADJP /interstate)(NP /banking law))(VP (NP-TMP /recently)(VP /pass/ASP))).03/passarg1: /interstate /banking lawThe human annotator can use the informationspecified in this entry to annotate all instances of?
/pass?
in a corpus.
When annotating a predicateinstance, the annotator first determines the syntacticframe of the predicate instance, and then determinewhich frameset this frame instantiates.
The frame-set identification is then attached to this predicateinstance.
This can be broadly construed as ?sense-tagging?, except that this type of sense tagging iscoarser, and the ?senses?
are based on structural dis-tinctions rather than just semantic nuances.
A dis-tinction is made only when the semantic distinc-tions also coincide with some structural distinctions.The expectation is that this type of sense tagging ismuch amenable to automatic machine-learning ap-proaches.
The annotation does not stop here.
Theannotator will go on identifying the arguments andadjuncts for this predicate instance.
For the argu-ments, the annotator will determine which semanticrole each argument realizes, based on the set of pos-sible roles for this frameset, and attach the appropri-ate semantic role label (argN) to it.
For adjuncts, theannotator will determine the type of adjunct this isand attach a secondary tag to argM.5 ApplicationsA resource annotated with predicate-argument struc-ture can be used for a variety of natural languageapplications.
For example, this level of abstractionis useful for Information Extraction.
The argumentrole labels can be easily mapped to an InformationExtraction template, where each role is mapped to apiece of information that an IE system is interestedin.
Such mapping will not be as straightforward ifit is between surface syntactic entities such as thesubject and IE templates.This level of abstraction can also provide a plat-form where lexical transfer can take place.
It opensup the possibility of linking a frameset of a predi-cate in one language with that of another, rather thanusing bilingual (or multilingual) dictionaries whereone word is translated into one or more words in adifferent language.
This type of lexical transfer hasseveral advantages.
One is that the transfer is mademore precise, in the sense that there will be morecases where one-to-one mapping is possible.
Evenin cases where one-to-one mapping is still not possi-ble, the identification of the framesets of a predicatewill narrow down the possible lexical choices.
Forexample, sign.02 in the English Proposition Bank(Kingsbury and Palmer, 2002) will be linked to ?.01/enter into an agreement?.
This type of linkingrules out ?
?
as a possible translation for sign.02,even though it is a translation for other framesets ofthe word sign.The transfer will also be more precise in anothersense, that is, the predicate-argument structure of aword instance will be preserved during the trans-fer process.
Knowing the arguments of a predicateinstance can further constrain the lexical choicesand rule out translation candidates whose predicate-argument structures are incompatible.
For example,if the realized arguments of ?sign.01?
of the En-glish Proposition Bank in a given sentence are thesigner, the document, and the signature, among thetranslation candidates ?
, ?
(?
.01/enter intoan agreement?
is ruled out as a possibility for thisframeset), only ?
?
is possible, because ?
?
canonly take two arguments, namely, the signer and thedocument.6.
/he /at /this /CL /document /LC /sign/LE /self /DE /name?He signed his name on this document.
?One might argue that the syntactic subcategoriza-tion frame obtained from the syntactic parse treecan also constrain the lexical choices.
For exam-ple, knowing that ?sign?
has a subject, an objectand a prepositional phrase should be enough to ruleout ?
?
as a possible translation.
This argumentbreaks down when there are lexical divergences.The ?document?
argument of ?
?
can only be re-alized as a prepositional phrase in Chinese whilein English it can only be realized the direct objectof ?sign?.
If the syntactic subcategorization frameis used to constrain the lexical choices for ?sign?,?
?
will be incorrectly ruled out as a possibletranslation.
There will be no such problem if themore abstract predicate-argument structure is usedfor this purpose.
Even when the document is re-alized as a prepositional phrase, it is still the sameargument.
Of course, ?
/sign?
is also a possi-ble translation.
So compared with the surface syn-tactic frames, the predicate-argument structure con-strains the lexical choices without incorrectly rulingout legitimate translation candidates.
This is under-standable because the predicate-structure abstractsaway from the syntactic idiosyncracies of the differ-ent languages and thus are more transferable acrosslanguages.7.
/he /at /this /CL /document /LC /sign/he /sign /this /CL /document?He signed this document.
?Annotating the predicate-argument structure asdescribed in previous sections will not reduce thelexical choices to one-to-one mappings in call cases.For example, ?
?
can be translated into ?standard-ize?
or ?unite?, even though there is only one frame-set for both finer senses of this verb.
It is conceiv-able that one might want to posit two framesets, eachfor one finer sense of this verb.
This is essentiallya trade-off: either one can conduct deep analysisof the source language, resolve all sense ambigui-ties on the source side and have a more straightfor-ward mapping, or one takes the one-to-many map-pings and select the correct translation on the tar-get language side.
Hopefully, the annotation of thepredicate-argument provides just the right level ofabstraction and the resource described here, witheach predicate annotated with its arguments and ad-juncts in context, enables the automatic acquisitionof the predicate-argument structure.6 SummaryIn this paper, we described an approach to annotatethe propositions in the Penn Chinese Treebank.
Wedescribed how diathesis alternation patterns can beused to make coarse sense distinctions for Chineseverbs as a necessary step in annotating the predicate-structure of predicates.
We also described the repre-sentation scheme we use to label the semantic argu-ments and adjuncts of the predicates.
We discussedseveral complications for this type of annotation anddescribed our solutions.
We then discussed how alexical database with predicate-argument structureinformation can be used to ensure consistent annota-tion.
Finally, we discussed possible applications forthis resource.7 AcknowledgementThis work is supported by MDA904-02-C-0412.ReferencesDaniel M. Bikel and David Chiang.
2000.
Two statisti-cal parsing models applied to the chinese treebank.
InProceedings of the 2nd Chinese Language ProcessingWorkshop, Hong Kong, China.Eugene Charniak.
2000.
A Maximum-Entropy-InspiredParser.
In Proc.
of NAACL-2000.Keh-Jiann Chen, Chu-Ren Huang, Feng-Yi Chen, Chi-Ching Luo, Ming-Chung Chang, and Chao-Jan Chen.to appear.
Sinica Treebank: Design Criteria, rep-resentational issues and immplementation.
In AnneAbeille, editor, Building and Using Syntactically An-notated Corpora.
Kluwer.David Chiang.
2000.
Statisitical parsing with anautomatically-extracted tree adjoining grammar.
InProceedings of the 38th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, pages 456-463,Hong Kong.Mike Collins.
1997.
Three Generative, Lexicalised Mod-els for Statistical Parsing.
In Proc.
of ACL-1997.Mike Collins.
2000.
Discriminative Reranking for Natu-ral Language Parsing.
In Proc.
of ICML-2000.N.
Ide and J. Vronis.
1998.
Word sense disambigua-tion: The state of the art.
Computational Linguistics,24(1):1?40.Paul Kingsbury and Martha Palmer.
2002.
From tree-bank to propbank.
In Proceedings of the 3rd Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources and Evalu-ation (LREC2002), Las Palmas, Spain.Beth Levin.
1993.
English Verbs and Alternations: APreliminary Investigation.
Chicago: The Unversity ofChicago Press.Charles Li and Sandra Thompson.
1976.
Subject andTopic: A new typology of language.
In Charles Li,editor, Subject and Topic.
Academic Press.M.
Marcus, B. Santorini, and M. A. Marcinkiewicz.1993.
Building a Large Annotated Corpus of English:the Penn Treebank.
Computational Linguistics.Martha Palmer, Hoa Trang Dang, and Christiane Fell-baum.
submitted.
Making fine-grained and coarse-grained sense distinctions, both manually and auto-matically.
Journal of Natural Language Engineering.Fei Xia, Martha Palmer, Nianwen Xue, Mary EllenOkurowski, John Kovarik, Fu-Dong Chiou, ShizheHuang, Tony Kroch, and Mitch Marcus.
2000.
Devel-oping Guidelines and Ensuring Consistency for Chi-nese Text Annotation.
In Proc.
of the 2nd Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources and Evalu-ation (LREC-2000), Athens, Greece.
