Parmenides: an opportunity for ISO TC37 SC4?Fabio Rinaldi1, James Dowdall1, Michael Hess1, Kaarel Kaljurand1, Andreas Persidis2,Babis Theodoulidis3, Bill Black3, John McNaught3, Haralampos Karanikas3, Argyris Vasilakopoulos3,Kelly Zervanou3, Luc Bernard3, Gian Piero Zarri4, Hilbert Bruins Slot5, Chris van der Touw5,Margaret Daniel-King6, Nancy Underwood6, Agnes Lisowska6, Lonneke van der Plas6,Veronique Sauron6, Myra Spiliopoulou7, Marko Brunzel7, Jeremy Ellman8,Giorgos Orphanos9, Thomas Mavroudakis10, Spiros Taraviras10.AbstractDespite the many initiatives in recent yearsaimed at creating Language Engineeringstandards, it is often the case that dierentprojects use dierent approaches and oftendene their own standards.
Even within thesame project it often happens that dierenttools will require dierent ways to representtheir linguistic data.In a recently started EU project focusingon the integration of Information Extrac-tion and Data Mining techniques, we aimat avoiding the problem of incompatibilityamong dierent tools by dening a Com-mon Annotation Scheme internal to theproject.
However, when the project wasstarted (Sep 2002) we were unaware of thestandardization eort of ISO TC37/SC4,and so we commenced once again trying todene our own schema.
Fortunately, as thiswork is still at an early stage (the projectwill last till 2005) it is still possible to redi-rect it in a way that it will be compati-ble with the standardization work of ISO.In this paper we describe the status of thework in the project and explore possiblesynergies with the work in ISO TC37 SC4.1 1Institute of Computational Linguistics, Uni-versity of Zurich, Switzerland;2Biovista, Athens,Greece;3Centre for Research in Information Manage-ment, UMIST, Manchester, UK;4CNRS, Paris, France;5Unilever Research and Development, Vlaardingen,The Netherlands;6TIM/ISSCO, University of Geneva,Switzerland;7Uni Magdeburg, Germany;8WordmapLtd., Bath, UK;9Neurosoft, Athens, Greece;10TheGreek Ministry of National Defense, Athens, Greece1 IntroductionIt is by now widely accepted that some W3C stan-dards (such as XML and RDF) provide a con-venient and practical framework for the creationof eld-specic markup languages (e.g.
MathML,VoiceXML).
However XML provides only a common\alphabet" for interchange among tools, the stepsthat need to be taken before there is any real shar-ing are still many (just as many human languagesshare the same alphabets, that does not mean thatthey can be mutually intelligible).
The necessarystep to achieve mutual understanding in LanguageResources is to create a common data model.The existence of a standard brings many otheradvantages, like the ability to automatically com-pare the results of dierent tools which provide thesame functionality, from the very basic (e.g.
tok-enization) to the most complex (e.g.
discourse rep-resentation).
Some of the NIST-supported competi-tive evaluations (e.g.
MUC) greatly beneted by theexistence of scoring tools, which could automaticallycompare the results of each participant against a goldstandard.
The creation of such tools (and their ef-fectiveness) was possible only because the organizinginstitute had pre-dened and \imposed" upon theparticipants the annotation scheme.
However, thatsort of \brute force" approach might not always pro-duce the best results.
It is important to involve thecommunity in the denition of such standards at anearly stage, so that all the possible concerns can bemet and a wider acceptance can be achieved.Another clear benet of agreed standards is thatthey will increase interoperability among dierenttools.
It is not enough to have publicly availableAPIs to ensure that dierent tools can be integrated.In fact, if their representation languages (their \datavocabulary") are too divergent, no integration willbe possible (or at least it will require a considerablemapping eort).
For all the above reasons we enthu-siastically support any concertation work, aimed atestablishing common foundations for the eld.In a recently started EU project (\Parmenides")focusing on the integration of Information Extrac-tion and Data Mining techniques (for Text Mining)we aim at avoiding the problem of incompatibilityamong dierent tools by dening a Common Annota-tion Scheme internal to the project.
However, whenthe project was started (Sep 2002) we were unawareof the standardization eort of ISO TC37 SC4, andso we commenced once again trying to dene our ownschema.
Fortunately, as this work is still at an earlystage (the project will last till 2005) it is still possibleto redirect it in a way that it will be compatible withthe standardization work of ISO.In this paper we will describe the approach fol-lowed so far in the denition of the Parmenides Com-mon Annotation Scheme, even if its relation with ISOis still only supercial.
In the forthcoming monthsour intention is to explore possible synergies betweenour work and the current initiatives in ISO TC37SC4, with the aim to get at a Parmenides annota-tion scheme which is conformant to the approach cur-rently discussed in the standardization committee.2 The Parmenides Lingua FrancaIn this section we will describe the XML-based anno-tation scheme proposed for the Parmenides project.In general terms the project is concerned with or-ganisational knowledge management, specically, bydeveloping an ontology driven systematic approachto integrating the entire process of information gath-ering, processing and analysis.The annotation scheme is intended to work as theprojects' lingua franca: all the modules will be re-quired to be able to accept as input and generateas output documents conformant to the (agreed) an-notation scheme.
The specication will be used tocreate data-level compatibility among all the toolsinvolved in the project.Each tool might choose to use or ignore part ofthe information dened by the markup: some infor-mation might not yet be available at a given stageof processing or might not be required by the nextmodule.
Facilities will need to be provided for lter-ing annotations according to a simple congurationle.
This is in fact one of the advantages of usingXML: many readily available o-the-shelf tools canbe used for parsing and ltering the XML annota-tions, according to the needs of each module.The annotation scheme will be formally dened bya DTD and an equivalent XML schema denition.Ideally the schema should remainexible enough toallow later additional entities when and if they areneeded.
However the present document has only anillustrative purpose, in particular the set of anno-tation elements introduced needs to be further ex-panded and the attributes of all elements need to beveried.There are a number of simplications which havebeen taken in this document with the purpose ofkeeping the annotation scheme as simple as possible,however they might be put into question and morecomplex approaches might be required.
For instancewe assume that we will be able to identify a uniqueset of tags, suitable for all the applications.
If thisproves to be incorrect, a possible way to deal withthe problem is the use of XML namespaces.
Ourassumptions allow us (for the moment) to keep allXML elements in the same namespace (and there-fore ignore the issue altogether).2.1 Corpus DevelopmentThe annotation scheme will be used to create a de-velopment corpus - a representative sample of thedomain, provided by the users as typical of the doc-uments they manually process daily.
In this phase,the documents are annotated by domain experts forthe information of interest.
This provides the bench-mark against which algorithms can be developed andtested to automate extraction as far as possible.Of primary importance to the annotation processis the consolidation of the \information of interest",the text determined as the target of the InformationExtraction modules.
Given the projects' goals, thistarget will be both diverse and complex necessitatingclarity and consensus.2.2 Sources Used for this DocumentParmenides aims at using consolidated InformationExtraction techniques, such as Named Entity Ex-traction, and therefore this work builds upon well-known approaches, such as the Named Entity anno-tation scheme from MUC7 (Chinchor, 1997).
Cru-cially, attention will be paid to temporal annota-tions, with the aim of using extracted temporal in-formation for detection of trends (using Data Min-ing techniques).
Therefore we have investigated allthe recently developed approaches to such a problem,and have decided for the adoption of the TERQAStagset (Ingria and Pustejovsky, 2002; Pustejovsky etal., 2002).Other sources that have been considered includethe GENIA tagset (GENIA, 2003), TEI (TEI Con-sortium, 2003) and the GDA1tagset.
The list ofentities introduced so far is by no means complete1http://www.i-content.org/GDA/tagset.htmlbut serves as the starting point, upon which to builda picture of the domains from information types theycontain.
The domain of interests (e.g.
Biotechnol-ogy) are also expected to be terminology-rich andtherefore require proper treatment of terminology.To supplement the examples presented, a com-plete document has been annotated according to theoutlined specication.2There are currently threemethods of viewing the document which oer dif-fering ways to visualize the annotations.
Theseare all based on transformation of the same XMLsource document, using XSLT and CSS (and someJavascript for visualization of attributes).
For exam-ple, the basic view can be seen in gure (1).3 Levels of AnnotationThe set of Parmenides annotations is organized intothree levels: Structural AnnotationsUsed to dene the physical structure of the doc-ument, it's organization into head and body,into sections, paragraphs and sentences.3 Lexical AnnotationsAssociated to a short span of text (smaller thana sentence), and identify lexical units that havesome relevance for the Parmenides project. Semantic AnnotationsNot associated with any specic piece of textand as such could be free-oating within thedocument, however for the sake of clarity, theywill be grouped into a special unit at the endof the document.
They refer to lexical anno-tations via co-referential Ids.
They (partially)correspond to what in MUC7 was termed `Tem-plate Elements' and `Template Relations'.Structural annotations apply to large text spans,lexical annotations to smaller text spans (sub-sentence).
Semantic annotations are not directlylinked to a specic text span, however, they arelinked to text units by co-referential identiers.All annotations are required to have an unique IDand thus will be individually addressable, this allowssemantic annotations to point to the lexical annota-tions to which they correspond.
Semantic Annota-tions themselves are given a unique ID, and thereforecan be elements of more complex annotations (\Sce-nario Template" in MUC parlance).2available at http://www.ifi.unizh.ch/Parmenides3Apparently the term 'structure' is used with a dif-ferent meaning in the ISO documentation, referringto morpho-syntactical structure rather than documentstructure.Structural Annotations The structure of thedocuments will be marked using an intuitively appro-priate scheme which may require further adaptationsto specic documents.
For the moment, the rootnode is <ParDoc> (Parmenides Document) whichcan contain <docinfo>, <body>, <ParAnn>.
The<docinfo> might include a title, abstract or sum-mary of the documents contents, author informa-tion and creation/release time.
The main bodyof the documents (<body>) will be split into sec-tions (<sec>) which can themselves contain sec-tions as well as paragraphs (<para>).
Within theparagraphs all sentences will be identied by the<sentence> tag.
The Lexical Annotations will(normally) be contained within sentences.
The -nal section of all documents will be <ParAnn> (Par-menides Annotations) where all of the semantic an-notations that subsume no text are placed.
Figure(2) demonstrates the annotation visualization tooldisplaying the documents structure (using nestedboxes).Lexical Annotations Lexical Annotations areused to mark any text unit (smaller than a sentence),which can be of interest in Parmenides.
They include(but are not limited to):1.
Named Entities in the classical MUC sense2.
New domain-specic Named Entities3.
Terms4.
Temporal Expressions5.
Events6.
Descriptive phrases (chunks)The set of Lexical Annotations described in thisdocument will need to be further expanded to coverall the requirements of the project, e.g.
names ofproducts (Acme Arms International's KryoZap (TM)tear gas riot control gun), including e.g.
names ofdrugs (Glycocortex's Siderocephalos).When visualizating the set of Lexical Tags in agiven annotated document, clicking on specic tagsdisplays the attribute values (see gure (3)).Semantic Annotations The relations that existbetween lexical entities are expressed through thesemantic annotations.
So lexically identied peo-ple can be linked to their organisation and job ti-tle, if this information is contained in the document(see gure (4)).
In terms of temporal annotations, itis the explicit time references and events which areidentied lexically, the temporal relations are thencaptured through the range of semantic tags.Figure 1: Basic Annotation Viewing3.1 ExampleWhile the structural annotations and lexical annota-tions should be easy to grasp as they correspond toaccepted notions of document structure and of con-ventional span-based annotations, an example mighthelp to illustrate the role of semantic annotations.
(1) The recent ATP award is<ENAMEX id="e8" type="ORGANIZATION">Dyax</ENAMEX>'s second, and follows a<NUMEX id="n5" type="MONEY">$4.3 million</NUMEX><ENAMEX id="e9" type="ORGANIZATION">NIST</ENAMEX>grant to<ENAMEX id="e10" type="ORGANIZATION">Dyax</ENAMEX>and<ENAMEX id="e11" type="ORGANIZATION">CropTech Development Corporation</ENAMEX>in<TIMEX3 tid="t4" type="DATE" value="1997">1997</TMEX3>There are two occurrences of Dyax in this shorttext: the two Lexical Entities e8 and e10, but clearlythey correspond to the same Semantic Entity.
Tocapture this equivalence, we could use the syntacticnotion of co-reference (i.e.
Identify the two as co-referent).
Another possible approach is to make astep towards the conceptual level, and create a se-mantic entity, of which both e8 and e10 are lexicalexpressions (which could be dierent, e.g.
\Dyax",\Dyax Corp.", \The Dyax Corporation").
The sec-ond approach can be implemented using an emptyXML element, created whenever a new entity is men-tioned in text.
For instance, in (2) we can use the tagFigure 2: Visualization of Structural Annotations<PEntity> (which stands for Parmenides Entity).
(2) <PEntity peid="obj1" type="ORGANIZATION"mnem="Dyax" refid="e1 e3 e6 e8 e10 e12"/>The new element is assigned (as usual) a uniqueidentication number and a type.
The attribute mnemcontains just one of the possible ways to refer to thesemantic entity (a mnemonic name, possibly chosenrandomly).
However, it also takes as the value ofthe refid attribute as many coreferent ids as arewarranted by the document.
In this way all lexicalmanifestations of a single entity are identied.
Allthe lexical entities which refer to this semantic entity,are possible ways to `name' it (see also g. 4).Notice that the value of the `type' attribute hasbeen represented here as a string for readability pur-poses, in the actual specication it will be a pointerto a concept in a domain-specic Ontology.Other semantic entities from (1) are:(3) <PEntity peid="obj2" type="ORGANIZATION"mnem="NIST" refid="e2 e4 e7 e9"/><PEntity peid="obj3" type="ORGANIZATION"mnem="CropTech" refid="e11"/>The newly introduced semantic entities can thenbe used to tie together people, titles and organiza-tions on the semantic level.
Consider for examplethe text fragment (4), which contains only LexicalAnnotations.
(4) ... said<ENAMEX id="e17" type="PERSON">Charles R. Wescott</ENAMEX>, Ph.D.,<ROLE type='x' id="x5">Senior Scientist</ROLE>at<ENAMEX id="e60" type="ORGANIZATION">Dyax Corp</ENAMEX>The Lexical Entity e17 requires the introductionof a new semantic entity, which is given the arbitraryidentier `obj5':(5) <PEntity peid="obj5" type="PERSON"mnem="Charles R. Wescott" refid="e17"/>Figure 3: Visualization of Lexical Annotations and their attributesIn turn, this entity is linked to the entity obj1from (1) by a relation of type `workFor' (PRelationstands for Parmenides Relation):(6) <PRelation prid="rel2" source="obj5"target="obj1" type="worksFor" role="SeniorScientist" evidence="x5"/>4 DiscussionAs the status of the Parmenides annotation schemeis still preliminary, we aim in this section to pro-vide some justication for the choices done so farand some comparison with existing alternatives.4.1 Named EntitiesOne of the purposes of Named Entities is to instanti-ate frames or templates representing facts involvingthese elements.
A minor reason to preserve the clas-sic named entities is so that we can test an IE systemagainst the MUC evaluation suites and know howit is doing compared to the competition and wherethere may be lacunae.
As such, the MUC-7 speci-cation (Chinchor, 1997) is adopted with the minorextension of a non-optional identication attributeon each tag.4.2 TerminologyA term is a means of referring to a concept of a spe-cial subject language; it can be a single wordform,a multiword form or a phrase, this does not matter.The only thing that matters is that it has specialreference: the term is restricted to refer to its con-cept of the special domain.
The act of (analytically)dening xes the special reference of a term to a con-cept.
Thus, it makes no sense to talk of a term nothaving a denition.
A concept is described by den-ing it (using other certain specialised linguistic forms(terms) and ordinary words), by relating it to otherconcepts, and by assigning a linguistic form (term)to it.If we are interested in fact extraction from denselyterminological texts with few named entities apartfrom perhaps names of authors, names of laborato-ries, and probably many instances of amounts andmeasures, then we would need to rely much more onprior identication of terms in the texts, especiallywhere these are made up of several word forms.A term can have many variants: even standard-ised terms have variants e.g.
singular, plural formsof a noun.
Thus we should perhaps more correctlyrefer to a termform, at least when dealing with text.Among variants one can also include acronyms andreduced forms.
You therefore nd a set of variants,typically, all referring to the same concept in a specialdomain: they are all terms (or termforms).
Againthis problem pinpoints the need for a separation ofthe lexical annotations (the surface variants withinthe document) and semantic annotations (pointingabstractly to the underlying concept).4.3 Approaches to Temporal AnnotationsTIDES (Ferro et al, 2001) is a temporal annota-tion scheme that was developed at the MITRE Cor-poration and it can be considered as an extensionof the MUC7 Named Entity Recognition (Tempo-ral Entity Recognition - TIMEX Recognition) (Chin-chor, 1997).
It aims at annotating and normalizingexplicit temporal references.
STAG (Setzer, 2001)is an annotation scheme developed at the Universityof She?eld.
It has a wider focus than TIDES inthe sense that it combines explicit time annotation,event annotation and the ability to annotate tempo-ral relations between events and times.TimeML (Ingria and Pustejovsky, 2002) stands for\Time Markup Language" and represents the inte-gration and consolidation of both TIDES and STAG.It was created at the TERQAS Workshop4and isdesigned to combine the advantages of the previoustemporal annotations schemes.
It contains a set oftags which are used to annotate events, time expres-sions and various types of event-event, event-timeand time-time relations.
TimeML is specically tar-geted at the temporal attributes of events (time ofoccurrence, duration etc.
).As the most complete and recent, TimeML shouldbe adopted for the temporal annotations.
Broadly,its organization follows the Parmenides distinctionbetween lexical/semantic annotations.
Explicit tem-poral expressions and events receive an appropriate(text subsuming) lexical tag.
The temporal rela-tions existing between these entities are then cap-tured through a range of semantic (non-text subsum-ing) tags.For example, each event introduces a correspond-ing semantic tag.
There is a distinction be-tween event \tokens" and event \instances" moti-vated by predicates that represent more than oneevent.
Accordingly, each event creates a semantic<MAKEINSTANCE> tag that subsumes no text.
Ei-ther, one tag for each realised event or a single tagwith the number of events expressed as the value ofthe cardinality attribute.
The tag is introduced andthe event or to which it refers is determined by theattributes eventID.5 ConclusionWe believe that ISO TC37/SC4 provides a very in-teresting framework within which specic researchconcerns can be addressed without the risk of rein-venting the wheel or creating another totally new4http://www.cs.brandeis.edu/~jamesp/arda/timeand incompatible annotation format.
The set of an-notations that we have been targeting so far in Par-menides is probably a small subset of what is tar-geted by ISO TC37/SC4.
Although we had only lim-ited access to the documentation available, we thinkour approach is compatible with the work being donein ISO.It is, we believe, extremely important for a projectlike ours, to be involved directly in the ongoing dis-cussion.
Moreover we are at precisely the right stagefor a more direct `exposure' to the ISO TC37/SC4discussion, as we have completed the exploratorywork but no irrevocable modeling commitment hasso far been taken.
Therefore we would hope to be-come more involved in order to make our proposalt exactly into that framework.
The end result ofthis process might be that Parmenides could becomea sort of \Guinea Pig" for at least a subset of ISOTC37 SC4.AcknowledgmentsThe Parmenides project is funded by the EuropeanCommission (contract No.
IST-2001-39023) andby the Swiss Federal O?ce for Education and Sci-ence (BBW/OFES).
All the authors listed have con-tributed to the (ongoing) work described in this pa-per.
Any remaining errors are the sole responsibilityof the rst author.ReferencesNancy Chinchor.
1997.
MUC-7 Named Entity Task Denition, Version3.5.
http://www.itl.nist.gov/iaui/894.02/related projects/muc/proceedings/ne task.html.Lisa Ferro, Inderjeet Mani, Beth Sundheim, and George Wilson.
2001.Tides temporal annotation guidelines, version 1.0.2.
Technical re-port, The MITRE Corporation.GENIA.
2003.
Genia project home page.
http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/~genia.Bob Ingria and James Pustejovsky.
2002.
TimeMLSpecication 1.0 (internal version 3.0.9), July.http://www.cs.brandeis.edu/%7Ejamesp/arda/time/documentation/TimeML-Draft3.0.9.html.James Pustejovsky, Roser Sauri, Andrea Setzer, Rob Giazauskas, andBob Ingria.
2002.
TimeML Annotation Guideline 1.00 (internalversion 0.4.0), July.
http://www.cs.brandeis.edu/%7Ejamesp/arda/time/documentation/TimeML-Draft3.0.9.html.Andrea Setzer.
2001.
Temporal Information in Newswire Articles: AnAnnotation Scheme and Corpus Study.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofShe?eld.TEI Consortium.
2003.
The text encoding initiative.
http://www.tei-c.org/.Figure 4: Visualization of Semantic Annotations
