Intelligent patent analysis through the use of a neural network:experiment of multi-viewpoint analysis with the MultiSOM modelJean-Charles LamirelLORIACampus scientifique, BP 23954506 Vandoeuvre CEDEXFrancelamirel@loria.frShadi Al ShehabiLORIACampus scientifique, BP 23954506 Vandoeuvre CEDEXFrancealshehab@loria.frMartial HoffmannINIST-CNRS2, All?e du Parc de Brabois54514 Vandoeuvre CEDEXFranceMartial.Hoffmann@inist.frClaire Fran?oisINIST-CNRS2, All?e du Parc de Brabois54514 Vandoeuvre CEDEXFranceClaire.Francois@inist.frAbstractThe main area of this paper concerns the neuralmethods for mapping scientific and technicalinformation (articles, patents) and for assisting auser in carrying out the complex process ofanalysing large quantities of such information.In the procedure of information analysis, like inthe domain of patent analysis, the complexity of thestudied topics and the accuracy of the question tobe answered may often lead the analyst to partitionhis reasoning into viewpoints.
Most of the classicalinformation analysis tools can only manage ananalysis of the studied domain in a global way.
Theinformation analysis tool that will be considered inour study is the MultiSOM tool whose core modelrepresents a significant extension of the classicalKohonen SOM neural model.
The MultiSOMneural-based tool introduces the concepts ofviewpoints and dynamics into the informationanalysis with its multi-maps displays and its inter-map communication process.
The dynamicinformation exchange between maps can beexploited by an analyst in order to performcooperative deduction between several differentanalyzes that have been performed on the samedata.The paper demonstrates the efficiency of aviewpoint-oriented-analysis as compared to a globalanalysis in the domain of patents.
Both objectiveand subjective quality criteria are taken intoaccount for quality evaluation.The experimental context of the paper isconstituted by a patent database of 1000 patentsrelated to oil engineering.
The patents structure andthe patents field semantics are firstly exploited inorder to generate different viewpoints correspondingto different areas of interest for the analysts.
In theexperiment the selected viewpoints correspond touses, advantages, patentees, and titles subfields ofthe patents.
The indexing vocabulary of eachviewpoint is automatically extracted of its relatedtextual contents in the patents through a full textanalysis.
The resulting vocabulary is then used torebuild patents descriptions regarding eachviewpoint.
These descriptions are finally classifiedthrough the unsupervised MultiSOM algorithmresulting in as much different maps as viewpoints.A fifth ?global viewpoint?
which represent thecombination of all the specific ones is alsoconsidered in order to perform our comparisonbetween a global classification mechanism and apure viewpoint-oriented classification mechanism.1.
IntroductionThe digital maps are not only tools ofvisualization.
They also represent an analysis tool.Appropriate display of class points can give theanalyst an insight that it is impossible to get fromreading tables of output or simple summarystatistics.
For some tasks, appropriate visualizationis the only tool needed to solve a problem orconfirm a hypothesis, even though we do notusually think of maps as a kind of analysis, as forpatent analysis.
There is many ways to createdigital maps.
The one we consider here is based onArtificial Neural Networks (ANNs).
ANNs are auseful class of models consisting of layers of nodes.The power of ANNs is derived from their learningcapability defined as a change in the weight matrix(W), which represents the strength of the linksamong nodes.
Moreover, both their relationshipswith multivariate data analysis and their non-linearcapabilities represent added-values for classing andmapping.
The Kohonen self-organizing map (SOM)model is a specific kind of ANN which implementsin only one step the tasks of classing and mapping adata set.
In the SOM case, the learning iscompetitive and unsupervised and the approachgives central attention to spatial order in theclassing of data.
The purpose is to compressinformation by forming reduced representations ofthe most relevant features, without loss ofinformation about their interrelationships.
The mainadvantages of the SOM model are its robustnessand its very good illustrative power.
Conversely, thefact that original model he his only able to deal withone classification of the data at a time might beconsidered as a serious bottleneck for exploiting itfor fine mining tasks.In this article we shall be dealing with aninnovation that was firstly introduced for theinformation retrieval purposes [13].
It has also beensuccessfully tested for multimedia mining andbrowsing tasks, exploiting both the multi-mapconcept and the synergy between images and text onthe same maps [14].
It is the multi-map extension ofthe Kohonen SOM algorithm.
This will be fromnow signified by the name of MultiSOM.
As weshall notice, the MultiSOM introduces the conceptsof viewpoints and dynamics into the informationanalysis concept with its multi-map displays and itsinter-map communication process.
The dynamicinformation exchange between maps can beexploited by an analyst in order to performcooperative deduction between several differentanalyzes that have been performed on the samedata.
The principal intent of this article is topropose the MultiSOM model as an ANNimplementation of the information analysis concept.We will mainly focuses on the study of thecontribution of the viewpoint's oriented dataanalysis proposed by the MultiSOM model ascompared to the global analysis proposed by theother models.
An attempt will be made to define aprotocol and to design a platform for thiscomparison.
As soon as the MultiSOM model canbe used either in a global way or in a viewpoint-oriented way, it will be used as the reference modelfor our comparison.
The section 2 of the articlepresents the Kohonen self-organizing maps (SOM)and their main applications in mapping of scienceand technology.
Sections 3 deals with MultiSOM,the multi-map innovation of the SOM algorithm.The context of the experiment on the oil engineeringpatents and the preprocessing of these latter will bedescribed in the section 4.
The Section 5 describesthe protocol of comparison which has been set upalong with its results.
The conclusions are finallyexposed.2.
The self-organizing  map (SOM)The basic principle of the SOM is that ourknowledge organization at higher levels is createdduring learning by algorithms that promote self-organization in an spatial order (see[5],[6],[7],[8],[9],[10],[11],[12],[28]).
Thus, thearchitecture form of the SOM network is based onthe understanding that the representation of datafeatures might assume the form of a self-organizingfeature map that is geometrically organized as agrid or lattice.
In the pure form, the SOM definesan "elastic net" of points (parameter, reference, orcodebook vectors) that are fitted to the input dataspace to approximate its density function in anordered way.
The algorithm takes thus a set of N-dimensional objects as input and maps them ontonodes of a two-dimensional grid, resulting in anorderly feature map [9].
A layer of two-dimensionalarray of competitive output nodes is used to formthe feature map.
The lattice type of array can bedefined to be square, rectangular, hexagonal, oreven irregular.
Every input is connected to everyoutput node via a variable connection weight.
It isthe self-organizing property.
The SOM belongs tothe category of the unsupervised competitivelearning networks [4],[11],[13].
It is calledcompetitive learning because there is a set of nodesthat compete with one another to become active.
Tothis category belongs also the adaptive resonancetheory (ART) model of Grossberg and Carpenter,as well as the self-organizing maps discussed in thispaper.
In the SOM, the competitive learning meansalso that a number of nodes is comparing the sameinput data with their internal parameters, and thenode with the best match (say, "winner") is thentuning itself to that input, in addition the bestmatching node activates its topographical neighborsin the network to take part in tuning to the sameinput.
More a node is distant from the winning nodethe learning is weaker.
It is also called unsupervisedlearning because no information concerning thecorrect classes is provided to the network during itstraining.
Like any unsupervised clustering method,the SOM can be used to find classes in the inputdata, and to identify an unknown data vector withone of the classes.
Moreover, the SOM representsthe results of its classing process in an ordered two-dimensional space (R2).
A mapping from a high-dimensional data space Rn onto a two dimensionallattice of nodes is thus defined.
Such a mapping caneffectively be used to visualize metric orderingrelations of input data.
As Kohonen [9] says: "Themain applications of the SOM are in thevisualization of complex data in a two dimensionaldisplay, and creation of abstractions like in manyclassing techniques.
"The SOM algorithm is presented in details in([2],[9],[12],[13],[19]).
It consists of two basicprocedures: (1) selecting a winning node and (2)updating weights of the winning node and itsneighboring nodes.
This preliminary learning phaseis not straightforward process [9].
It necessitatesseveral different learning steps, single mapevaluations, and comparisons between a lot ofgenerated maps in order to find at least a reliablemap, at most an optimal one [13],[32].Let x(t) = {x1(t), x2(t),?, xN(t)} be the inputvector selected at time t, and Wk(t) = {Wk1(t),Wk2(t),?, WkN(t)} the weights for node k at time t.The smallest of the Euclidean distances ||x(t) ?Wk(t)|| can be made to define the winning node s:||x(t) ?
Ws(t)|| = min ||x(t) ?
Wk(t)||After the winning node s thus selected, theweights of s and the weights of the nodes in adefined neighborhood (for example all nodes withina square or a cycle around the winning node) areadjusted so that similar input patterns are morelikely to select this node again.
This is achievedthrough the following computation:Wki(t+1) = Wki(t) + ?
(t) ?
h(t) ?
[Xi(t) ?
Wki (t)],for 1 ?
i ?
Nwhere ?
(t) is a gain term (0 ?
?
(t) ?
1) thatdecreases in time and converges to 0, and h(t) is theneighborhood function.Once the SOM algorithm is achieved, the datacan be set to the nodes of the map.
For each inputdata vector, the winning node is selected accordingto the algorithm first step presented above, and thedata are affected to this selected node.In the quantitative studies of science, theKohonen self-organizing maps have beensuccessfully used for mapping scientific journalnetworks [2], and also author co-citation data [33].Maps have been also successfully used for severalother applications in the general area of dataanalysis like for classifying meeting output [30], forclassing socio-economic data [32] and fordocumentary database contents mapping andbrowsing [13],14].
Kaski et al have implemented aspecific adaptation of SOM, named WEBSOM, forthe analysis of important document collections [6].WEBSOM main characteristic is to includestrategies for reducing the dimension of the entrydata descriptions by using random projectiontechniques applied on word histograms extractedfrom the document contents.
WEBSOM method hasbeen tested for patents abstract analysis [7].Nevertheless, as this method only manages such ananalysis in a global way, it can only provide theanalyst with general overview of the topics coveredby the patents along with their interactions.
A moreexhaustive description of all the SOM applicationsmight be found in [32].After the map building, the main characteristicsof the classes resulting from the topographicalclassification process have to be highlighted to theanalyst in order to provide him an overview (i.e.
aglobal summary) of the analysis results.
This task isdifficult because the profiles of the obtained classesare mostly complex weighted combination ofindexes extracted from the data.
We havepreviously observed that single extraction strategylike the one proposed by [17] could causeshortcomings or mistakes in the interpretation of thedatabase contents.
The first set of solutions weproposed for solving this problem, like classlabeling and zoning strategies or generalizationmechanisms, are presented in [14].
Figure 3 ofsection 4 presents a map resulting from theseprocesses.In all the following sections, we will considerthat the classification process deals with electronicdocuments associated with their description in theform of index vectors.
Classes will be representedby node vectors or class profile; each component ofthe vectors being the coordinate of a documentindex element (keyword).
The list of the input data,which are the documents affected to the node, willrepresent the ?class members?
profile.
Theconceptual mean of the classes will be below calleda topic.
This semantic information is supplied bythe classified keywords and documents.3.
The MultiSOM modelThe communication between self-organizingmaps that has been first introduced in the context ofan information retrieval model [10], represents amajor amelioration of the basic Kohonen SOMmodel.
From a practical point of view, the multi-map display introduces in the information analysisthe use of viewpoints.
Each different viewpoint isachieved in the form of map.
Each map is a spatialorder in which the information is represented intonodes (classes) and spatial areas (group of classes).The multi-map enables a user to highlight semanticrelationships between different topics belonging todifferent viewpoints.
Each map represents aparticular viewpoint.
Figure 4 of section 4illustrates it.3.1 The viewpoint paradigmThe viewpoint building principle consists inseparating the description space of the documentsinto different subspaces corresponding to differentkeyword subsets.
The set of V all possibleviewpoints issued from the description space D of adocument set can be defined as:V = {v1, v2, ?, vn}, vi ?
P(D), with  Dvn1ii ==Uwhere each vi represents a viewpoint and P(D)represents the set of the parts of the descriptionspace of the documents D; the union of the differentviewpoints constitutes the description space of thedocuments.The viewpoint subsets issued from V may beoverlapping ones.
Moreover, they may also fit intothe structure of the document when theycorrespond to different vocabulary subsetsassociated to different documents subfields, if any.Other viewpoints may be also manually extractedfrom an overall document description space.
Atlast, the viewpoint model is flexible enough totolerate document descriptions belonging todifferent media, as soon as these descriptions canbe implemented by description vectors (for ex.
animage can be simultaneously described both by akeyword vector and by color histogram vector).The inter-map communication mechanism,which is described hereafter, takes directly benefitof the above described viewpoint model in order toovercome the low quality problem inherent to aglobal classification approach while conserving aoverall view on the interaction between the data.3.2 Inter-map communication mechanismIn MultiSOM, this inter-map communication isbased on the use of the data that have beenprojected onto the maps as intermediary nodes oractivity transmitters between maps.
Theintercommunication process between maps operatesin three successive steps.
Figure 1 showsgraphically the three steps of thisintercommunication mechanism.At the step 1, the original activity is directly set upby the user on the node or on the logical areas of asource map through decisions represented bydifferent scalable modalities (full acceptance,moderated acceptance, moderated rejection, fullrejection) directly associated to nodes activitylevels.
This procedure can be interpreted as theuser?s choices to highlight (positively or negatively)different topics representing his centers of interestrelatively to the viewpoint associated to the sourcemap.
The original activity could also be indirectlyset up by the projection of a user?s query on thenodes of a source map.
The effect of this processwill then be to highlight the topics that are more orless related to that query.
The activity transmissionprotocol, which corresponds to the steps 2 and 3 ofthe inter-map communication mechanism, isextensively described in [24].To perform in the best conditions, the inter-mapcommunication process obviously necessitates thata significant part of the data should play that rolesbetween the maps.
This last condition could beeasily verified if each vector used for the mapgeneration indexes a significant part of thebibliographic database.Source signal: direct user activationor query matching activationSource Map[1][2][3]Figure 1:  Inter-map communication mechanism.
This figure represents the main steps of the inter-mapcommunication mechanism.
[1] The activity is set up directly by the user or by a query formulation on one or severalnodes of one or several source map.
[2] The activity is transmitted to the data nodes associated to the activated classnodes of the source map.
[3] The activity is transmitted through the data nodes to other maps to which these data areassociated.
Positive as well as negative activity could be managed in the same process.
Note that the data are in thiscase indexed document.4.
ApplicationIn the two preceding sections we have introducedMultiSOM after having previously presented theSOM algorithm.
In this section, we shall then use areal example, to make some of the notions moreconcrete.
We argue that visualization into form of aset of maps represents an important added-value foranalysis in the technology watching tasks, as wellas in science watch, and in knowledge discovery indatabases.
Our example is a set of 1000 patentsabout oil engineering technology recorded duringthe year 1999.4.1 The analysis phaseThe role of the MultiSOM application has beenfirstly planed by the domain expert in order to getanswers to such various kinds of questions on thepatents that:1: ?Which are the relationships between thepatentees?
?2: ?Which are the advantages of the different oils?
?,3: ?Does a patentee works on a specific engineeringtechnology, for which advantage and for whichuse?
?,4: ?Which is the technology that is used by a givenpatentee without being used by another one?
?,5: ?Which are the main advantages of a specific oilcomponent and do this advantages have beenmentioned in all the patents using this component?
?.An analysis carried out on all the possible types ofquestion led the expert to define differentviewpoints on the patents that could be associatedto different closed semantic domains appearing inthese questions.
One of the main aim of the expertwas to be able to use each viewpoints separately inorder to get answers to domain closed questions(like questions 1,2) while maintaining the possibilityof a multi-viewpoint communication in order to getanswers to multi-domain questions (like questions3,4,5) that might also contain negation (likequestion 4).
The specific viewpoints which havebeen highlighted by the expert from the set ofpossible questions are:1: Patentees,2: Title (often contains information on the specificcomponents used in the patent),3: Use,4: Advantages.A fifth ?global viewpoint?
which represent thecombination of all the specific ones is alsoconsidered in order to perform our comparisonbetween a global classification mechanism, of theWEBSOM type, and a pure viewpoint-orientedclassification mechanism, of the MultiSOM type.4.2 The technical realizationThe role of this phase consists in mapping thefour specific viewpoints highlighted by the domainexpert in the preceding phase in four differentmaps.
A preliminary task consists in obtaining theindex set (i.e.
the vocabulary set) associated to eachviewpoint from the full text of the patents.
This taskhas been itself divided into three elementary steps.At the step 1, the structure of the patent abstracts isparsed in order to extract the subfieldscorresponding to the Use and to the Advantagesviewpoints1.
At the step 2, the rough index set ofeach subfield is constructed by the use of a basiccomputer-based indexing tool [4].
This tool extractsterms and noun phrases from the subfield contentaccording to a normalized terminology and itssyntactical variations.
It eliminates as well usuallanguage templates.
At the step 3, the normalizationof the rough index set associated to each viewpointis performed by the domain expert in order toobtain the final index sets.
The normalization of theTitle, Use and Advantages subfields consists inchoosing a single representative among the terms ornoun phrases which represent the same concept (forex., ?oil fabrication?
and ?oil engineering?
nounphrases will be both assimilated to the single ?oilengineering?
noun phrase).
The normalization of thePatentees viewpoint is operated in the same wayconsidering that the same firm can appear withdifferent names in the set of published patents.1 The Patentees and Title subfields are directly represented in the originalpatent structure and therefore do not necessitate any extraction.After the construction of the final index sets, thepatents are re-indexed separately for each viewpointthanks to these sets.
Figure 2 presents a patentabstract including its generated multi-index.The following task consists in building the mapsrepresenting the different viewpoints, using the mapalgorithm described in section 2.
Before these step,a classical IDF-Normalization step [27] is appliedto the index vectors associated to the patents inorder to reduce the influence of the mostwidespread terms of the indexes.
For each specificviewpoint a map of 10x10 nodes (classes) is finallygenerated.
Two global maps representing globalunsupervised classifications, of the WEBSOM type[7], of the patents are also constructed.
The indexsets of these maps represent the union of the indexsets of all the specific viewpoints.
They only differone to another by the number of their classes.
Thefirst one (GlobMin) is constrained to have the samenumber of classes as the viewpoint maps (i.e.
100classes).
The second one (GlobMax) is constrainedto have to sum of the number of classes of all theviewpoint maps (i.e.
it becomes a 20x20 mapcomprising 400 classes).
The table 1 summarizesthe results of the patent indexation and the mapbuilding.
A single viewpoint map resulting from themap building process is presented at the figure 4.Some remarks must be made concerning the resultsshown in table 1.
(1) The index count of the Titlefield is significantly higher than the other ones.
Ananalysis of the indexes shows that the informationcontained in the patent titles is both sparser, ofhigher diversity, and more precise than the onescontained in the Use and Advantages fields.Thanks to the expert opinion, the high level ofgenerality of the Use and Advantages fields, whichconsequently led to poorer generated indexes, couldbe explained as an obvious strategy of the Patenteesfor indirectly protecting their patents.
(2) Thenumber of final patentees (i.e.
32) has beensignificantly reduced by the expert as compared tothe one initially generated by the computer-basedindexing tool.
The main part of this reduction is notdue to variations in patentee names.
It is related tothe fact that the prior goal of the study was toconsider the main companies and theirrelationships.
Thus, the patentees corresponding tosmall companies have been grouped into a samegeneral index: ?Divers?.
(3) On the Patentees map,the number of classes is close to the final number ofretained patentees.
Most of these patentees will thenbe associated to separate classes on the Patenteesmap.
(4) Only 62% of the patents have anAdvantages field and 75% a Use field.Consequently, some of the patents will not beindexed for the all the expected viewpoints.
The roleof the mechanism of communication betweenviewpoints (see next section) will then be togenerate indirect evaluation of the contents of thesepatents on their missing viewpoints through theirassociations with other patents.Figure 2: Example of a patent abstract with its generated multi-index.
The multi-index that has been generatedfor the above patent abstract corresponds to the ?Final indexation?
field.
The terms of the generated multi-index areprefixed by the name of the viewpoint to which they are associated: ?adv.?
for the Advantages viewpoint, ?titre.?
forthe Title viewpoint, ?use.?
for the Use viewpoint, ?soc.?
for the Patentees viewpoint.Figure 3: Example of a generated map.
Partial view of a topographic map of 10 x 10 nodes.
The map is initiallyorganized as a square 2D grid of nodes.
The viewpoint chosen for the showed map is the "Advantages" viewpoint.The names of the classes illustrate the topics (considering the chosen viewpoint) that have been highlighted by thelearning.
After the learning, the nodes related to the same topics have been grouped into coherent areas thanks to thetopographic properties of the map.
The number of nodes of each area can then be considered as a good indicator ofthe topic weight in the database.
Topics or areas near one to another represent related notions.
For example, the?extending oil live?
area shares some of its borders with the ?black sludge control?
area on the map.
The proximityof these two areas illustrates the fact that oil duration strongly depends of maintaining a low level of sludge in it.
Thesurrounding circles represent the centers of gravity of the areas.Patentees Title Use  Advantages GlobMin(WEBSOM)GlobMax(WEBSOM)Number of indexed documents(NID) 1000 1000 745 624 1000 1000Number of rough indexes generated(NRI) 73 605 252 231 1395 1395Number of final indexes(NFI) 32 589 234 207 1075 1075Numbers of map classes with members(/100) 28 55 57 61 89 238Table 1: Summary of the results of patent indexation and map building.
Note that the NRI (resp.
NFI) of the?global viewpoint?
are less than the sum of the NRIs (resp.
NFIs) of all the specific viewpoints (i.e.
1089) becausethere are similar indexes occurring in different viewpoints.Figure 4: Example of exploitation of the inter-map communication mechanism.
The analyst decision to activatethe area corresponding to the TONEN CORP. company on the Patentees map and to propagate the activity to thethematic maps associated to the Use, Advantages and Title viewpoints corresponds to a "viewpoints crossing query"whose explicit formulation might look like: "I want to know which are the specific areas of competence (concerningoil use, oil composition and expected advantages) of the TONEN CORP. company, if there are.
The MultiSOMapplication let him interactively find that TONEN CORP. company is a specialist of the lubrication of the automatictransmissions [arrow n?2 on the map] and that it adopted for this kind of lubrication sulfur-containingorgano-molybdenum compound [arrow n?1] whose main advantages are to provide oil with a friction coefficient thatis stable on a wide range of temperature [arrow n?3].
In this case, an inverted propagation from the target topicsshould be also used to verify that these topics only belong to TONEN CORP. areas of competence.
The whiter is thecolor of a node representing a map class (topic), the higher is its resulting activity.1 23PatenteesTitleAdvantagesUse4.3 Inter-map communication for analysisIn comparison with the standard mappingmethods, as such as principal component analysis,multidimensional scaling or WEBSOM globalSOM analysis, the advantage of the multi-mapdisplays is the inter-map communicationmechanism that MultiSOM environment provides touser.
Each map is representing a viewpoint.
Eachviewpoint is representing a subject category.
Theinter-map communication mechanism assisted theuser to cross information between the differentviewpoints.
In both cases, the responses of thesystem are given both through activity profiles onthe maps and through patents examples associatedto the most active class representatives of thesemaps.
The estimation of the quality of thematicdeduction is achieved through an evaluation of theactivity focalization on the target maps (see [13]).The figure 4 illustrates a thematic deductionbetween the four different viewpoints of the study.5.
EvaluationThe advantages of the MultiSOM method seemobvious to the expert of the domain: the originalmultiple viewpoints classification approach ofMultiSOM tends to reduce the noise which isinevitably generated in an overall classificationapproach while increasing the flexibility and thegranularity of the analyses.
Moreover, with a globalclassification method, like WEBSOM, importantrelationships between some subtopics are hidden inthe class profiles and therefore very difficult toprecisely characterize.
The expert found more than35 of such important relationships by the use of theMultiSOM method.
A simple example is given bythe comparison of the figure 3 and the figure 5.Other examples of more elaborated topicrelationships that can be only obtained by theMultiSOM inter-map communication mechanismare given in the annex of the paper.
Finally, theexpert argued that the possibility of interactivelyactivating, positively or negatively, the classes onthe maps represents a great help for tuning veryprecisely an analysis process.
Nevertheless, expertempirical evaluation remains insufficient toobjectively compare global approach to viewpoint-oriented approach.
For this last purpose, wepropose new objective classification qualityestimators for both evaluating and optimising theresults of the classification and of the mappingmethods, especially when they are applied in thedomain of documentary databases.
These estimatorsare described in the next section.Figure 5: Results of a WEBSOM-like global mapping of 10x10 nodes (GlobMin).
The left part of the figurerepresents the WEBSOM-like mapping (i.e.
without viewpoint management) of the content of the patent abstracts.The right part of the map represents the description (i.e.
profile) of the ?extending oil life?
WEBSOM global topic.Even if a strong relationship between ?extending oil life?
and ?black sludge control?
topics has been highlighted byProfile of topic: Extending oil lifethe MultiSOM viewpoint-oriented classification (see map of figure 3), this relationship has been lost by theWEBSOM-like classification due to the noise of the global classification (this relationship do not appear, neither inthe above map, nor in the ?extending oil life?
topic profile).5.1 Evaluation procedureWhen anyone aims at comparing classificationmethods, he will be faced with the problem ofchoice of reliable classification quality measures.The classical evaluation measures for the quality ofa classification are based on the intra-class inertiaand the inter-class inertia [16][17][25].
Thanks tothese two measures, a classification is considered asgood if it possesses low intra-class inertia ascompared to its inter-class inertia.
However, in thecase of a Kohonen classification, as well as formany other numerical classification methods, thesemeasures are often strongly biased, mainly becausethe intrinsic dimensions of the classes profiles(number of non-zero components in the profiles) arenot of the same order of magnitude than theintrinsic dimensions of the data profiles2.
It isespecially true in the documentary domain wherethe number of indexes in the documents isextremely low as compared to the dimension oftheir overall description space.A promising way we have found in order to moreprecisely highlight the main characteristics of theclasses of the map and to validate the thematicdeductions between the maps consists in couplingthe MultiSOM model with a symbolic model usingGalois lattice conceptual classification of thepatents regarding the same viewpoints as the oneused for the map building.
This approach isextensively described in [31].
A Galois latticemodel could also be considered as a pure naturalelementary classifier.
Indeed, it groups the data bydirectly considering their intrinsic properties (i.e.without any preliminary construction of classprofiles).
Hence, one might derive from its behaviornews class quality evaluation factors which can besubstituted to the measures of inertia for validatingthe intrinsic properties of the numerical classes.
Forthe sake of user-orientation, our measures will bebased in a parallel way on the recall and precisioncriteria which are extensively used from evaluating2 In the SOM method, a second bias is generated by the class constructionprocess that tends to maintain the topographic properties of the map byenhancing the similarities between neighboring classes.the result quality of information retrieval (IR)systems.
In IR [29], the Recall R represents theratio between the number of relevant documentswhich have been returned by an IR system for agiven query and the total number of relevantdocuments which should have been found in thedocumentary database.
The Precision P representsthe ratio between the number of relevant documentswhich have been returned by an IR system for agiven query and the total number of documentsreturned for the said query.
Recall and Precisiongenerally behave in an antagonist way: as Recallincreases, Precision decreases, and conversely.
TheF function has thus been proposed in order tohighlight the best compromise between these twovalues [35].
It is given by:( )PRPRF+=*2(Eq.
1)Based on the same principles, the Recall andPrecision measures which we introduce hereafterevaluate the quality of a classification method bymeasuring the relevance of its resulting classcontent3 in terms of shared properties.
In our furtherdescriptions, the class content is supposed to berepresented by documents and the indexes (i.e.
theproperties) of the documents are supposed to beweighted by values within the range [ ]1,0 .Let us consider a set of classes C resulting from aclassification method applied on a set of documentsD, the Recall measure is expressed as:???
?=cSp ppCc c CcSCR**11, ???
?=cSppCc c ccSCP*11where Sc is the set of properties which arepeculiar to the class c that is described as:( )??????????=?
?=?Ccppcc WMaxWcddpS c'',where C represents the peculiar set of classes3 The content of a class is represented by the subset of original data thathave been associated to it by the classification process.extracted from the classes of C, which verifies:{ }??
?= cSCcCand:????
?
?=Cc cdpdcdpdpcWWW' 'where pxW  represents the weight of the propertyp for element x.Similarly to IR, the F-measure (described byEq.
1) could be used to combine Recall andPrecision results.
Moreover, we have demonstratedin [16] that if both values of Recall and Precisionreach the unity value, the peculiar set of classC represents a Galois lattice.
Therefore, thecombination of this two measures enables toevaluate to what extent a numerical classificationmodel can be assimilated to a Galois lattice naturalclassifier.
The stability of our Quality criteria hasalso been demonstrated in [16].5.2 Evaluation resultsPatentees Title Use Advantages Average F(MSOM)GlobMin(WEBSOM)GlobMax(WEBSOM)R 0,94 0,89 0,78 0,77 0,87 0,84P 0,92 0,40 0,63 0,60 0,48 0,65F 0,93 0,55 0,70 0,67 0,71 0,61 0,68Table 2: Summary of the results of Quality, Recall and Precision evaluation: The nearer the different values arefrom 1, the better are the classification results.
The F value provides a synthesis of the results of R and P.The examination of the Quality measures of thetable 2 gives more reliable and stable resultsbecause these measures are both independent of theclassification method and of the size of thedescription space.
It highlights the overallsuperiority of the viewpoint-oriented approach ascompared with a global approach with the samenumber of class (GlobMin).
As the number ofclasses is strongly increased in the global approach(GlobMax), its quality is simultaneously increased,but the advantage of the viewpoint-orientedapproach remains obvious in the average (higherAverage F-value on all viewpoints than F-value ofGlobMax), with a more reasonable number ofclasses per maps from a user point of view.
Thespecific case of the Title classification should bediscussed here.
The bad quality of this classificationis both due to the index sparseness of this field4 andto an inappropriate number of classes, relatively to4 This can be ?a posteriori?
confirmed by the inertia results for thisviewpoint.the size of its associated description space.
Aninteresting strategy would then be to make use ofthe quality factor Q in order to find the optimalnumber of classes for this classification.
Anunbalance between Recall and Precision (in thefavour of Recall) can be observed in the case of theworse classifications (GlobMin and Titles).
Suchan unbalance means that documents with differentproperties sets are grouped in the same classes,leading conjointly to the risk of confusion in theinterpretation of the content of the classes by theuser.The quality analysis clearly shows that theviewpoint-oriented approach enhance the quality ofinterpretation of a classification by both reducingthe number of class to be consulted by the user oneach viewpoint and providing him with morecoherent and exhaustive classes in terms of content.5.3 Optimisation of classification resultsThe quality criteria that have been presented inthe latter section can also be used for optimizing thenumber of classes for each viewpoint map.
The goalof this process is to provide the analyst with anoptimal quality of interpretation for each individualmap associated to a specific viewpoint.
For thatpurpose, different maps are generated from 6x6 to24*24 nodes (classes) for each viewpoint.
Theprinciple of our algorithm of classificationoptimisation, which is described in [16], is to searchfor a break-even point (i.e.
intersection point)between Recall and Precision.
The map whosequality criteria stand the nearest from the break-even point is considered as the optimal one.
Thefigure subjectively illustrates the difference ofaccuracy that can be obtained in the analysis byoptimizing the map size for a given viewpoint.
As itis shown in the figure 6, high quality maps areusually characterized by more precise topic labelsand smaller average size of their logical areas.Figure 6: Comparison between a 11x11 ?Use viewpoint?
thematic map and a 16x16 ?Use viewpoint?
thematicmap through map extracts: the 11x11 map extract is presented at the left, the 16x16 map extract is presented at theright.
On the figure, the focus is given ?machine oil?
topic.
The comparison highlights, as an example, that the logicalsurrounding of this topic is more precisely defined in the 16x16 map (optimal quality) than in the 11x11 map (lowerquality).
Moreover, in the 11x11 map, the topic ?machine oil?
has been derived in a more fuzzy scope topic named?machine and vehicles?.6.
ConclusionWe have presented a new self-organizing multi-map system.
We proposed it as a visualization-based system for scientific and technicalinformation analysis, like patents analysis.
Themodel that this multi-map environment provides iscertainly not the map but in its original extendedversion of intercommunication between multiplesmaps.
Each map representing a particular viewpointextracted from the data.
These viewpoints arerelated either by the problem to be solved, or by theintercommunication mechanism between the maps.We have exposed both the map generation and theirintercommunication mechanism.
We finally showedhow one can evaluate such a viewpoint-orientedapproach by comparing it to a global classificationapproach.The advantages of the MultiSOM method seemobvious both in terms of objective evaluation, likethe one we proposed, and for the domain experts:the original multiple viewpoints classificationapproach of MultiSOM tends to reduce the noisewhich is inevitably generated in an overallclassification approach while increasing theflexibility and the granularity of the analyses.Moreover, with a global classification method, evenif this latter manages overlapping classes, importantrelationships between some subtopics are hidden inthe class profiles and therefore very difficult toprecisely characterize.Our experiment has also highlighted that ourquality evaluation factors that we have proposedcan be benefitely used for optimizing theclassifications in terms of number of classes, eitherthese classifications are global or they areviewpoint-oriented.
This optimization seems to bemandatory when one want to classify documentsissued from the Web, where sparseness couldusually be a blocking factor.7.
References[1] IST-1999-20350.
[2] J. M. Campanario, ?Using Neural Networks ToStudy Networks of Scientific Journals,?Scientometrics, 33 (1995) No.
1, p.
23-40.
[3] J-F. Jodouin, Les r?seaux neuromim?tiques,HERMES, Paris, 1994.
[4] O. Jouve, ?Les nouvelles technologie de larecherche d?information?, S?minaireDocumentation, Paris, Otobre, 1999[5] G. E. Hinton, ?Connectionist LearningProcedures,?
Artificial Intelligence, 40 (1989) p.185-234.
[6] S. Kaski, T. Honkela, K. Lagus and T.Kohonen, ?WEBSOM-self organizing maps ofdocument collections ?, Neurocomputing, vol.
21,pp.
101-117, 1998.
[7] T. Kohonen, S. Kaski, K. Lagus, J. Salojrvi, J.Honkela, V. Paatero and A. Saarela, Selforganization of a massive document collection",IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, 2000.
[8] T. Kohonen, Self-Organisation and AssociativeMemory, Springer Verlag, Third edition, Berlin,1984.
[9] T. Kohonen ?The Self-Organizing Map,?Proceedings of the IEEE, 78 (1990) No 9, p.
1464-1480.
[10] T. Kohonen, ?Self-Organizing Maps:Optimization Approaches,?
in Artificial NeuralNetworks, T. Kohonen, K. M?kisara, O. Simula, J.Kanges, Editors, Elsevier Science Publishers B.V,North Holland, Amsterdam, 1991, p.
981?990.
[11] T. Kohonen, ?Things You Haven't Heardabout the Self-Organizing Map,?
IEEEInternational Conference on Neural Networks, SanFrancisco, Calif., March 28 ?
April 1, (1993) p.1147-1156.
[12] T. Kohonen, Self-Organizing Maps.
SpringerVerlag, Berlin, 1997.
[13] J-C. Lamirel, Application d?une approchesymbolico-connexionniste pour la conception d?unsyst?me documentaire hautement interactif, Th?sede l?Universit?
de Nancy 1 Henri Poincar?, 1995.
[14] J-C. Lamirel, J. Ducloy, G. Oster, ?Adaptativebrowsing for information discovery in aniconographic context,?
In Conference ProceedingsRIAO, Paris, Volume 2, 2000, p.
1657-1672.
[15] J.C. Lamirel, Y. Toussaint, ?
CombiningSymbolic and Numeric Techniques for DigitalLibraries Contents Classification and Analysis ?.Proceedings of First DELOS Network ofExcellence Worshop, Zurich, December 2000.
[16] J.C. Lamirel, S. Al Shehabi, C. Francois, M.Hoffmann, ?
New classification quality estimatorsfor analysis of documentary information:application to web mapping ?.
Proceedings ofISSI, Bejing, 2003 (to be published).
[17] L. Lebart, A. Morineau and J. P. F?nelon, ?Traitement des donn?es statistiques ?, Dunod,Paris, France, 1982.
[18] A. Lelu et A. Georgel, ?
Neural Models forOrthogonal and Oblique Factor Analysis: TowardsDynamic Data Analysis of Large Sets of HighlyMultidimensional Objects ?, Proceedings ofIJCNN, pp.
829?832, Paris, France, 1990.
[19] X. Lin, D. Soergel, G. Marchionini, ?A Self-Organizing Semantic Map for InformationRetrieval,?
in Proceedings of the 4th InternationalSIGIR Conference on R&D in InformationRetrieval, 13-16 October, Chicago, 1991, p.
262-269.
[20] X.
Lin., ?
Map Displays for InformationRetrieval, ?
JASIS, 48 (1) : 40-54, 1997.
[21] R. P Lippmann., ?An Introduction toComputing with Neural Nets,?
IEEE ASSPMagazine, April, p. 4-22 (1987) p.
4-22.
[22] R. E. Orwig, H. Chen and J. F.
NunamakerJr., ?
A graphical, Self Organizing Approach toClassifying Electronic Meeting Output, ?
JASIS,48 (1) : 157-170, 1997.
[23] M. A. Ould Mahamed Yahya, ?
Comparaisonde m?hodes neuronales avec des m?thodesd?analyse des donn?es dans le cadre d?ing?nieriede l?information ?, M?moire de stage de D.E.S.S.en ?Ing?nierie math?matique et outilsinformatiques?, Centre Elie Cartan, Universit?
deNancy I, France, 1997.
[24] X. Polanco, J.C. Lamirel and C. Francois,?
Using Artificial Neural Networks for Mapping ofScience and technology: A Multi self-organizingmaps Approach ?, Scientometrics, Vol.
51, N?
1(2001), pp.
267-292.
[25] X. Polanco, C. Fran?ois, ?Data Classing andClass Mapping or Visualization in Text Processingand Mining,?
Dynamism and Stability inKnowledge Organization.
Proceedings of the Sixthinternational ISKO Conference, 10-13 July 2000,Toronto, Canada.
Edited by C. Beghtol, C. L.Howarth, N. J. Williamson.
Advances inKnowledge Organization, 7 (2000a), p.
359-365.
[26] C. Rham (De), ?La classing hi?rarchiqueascendante selon la m?thode des voisinsr?ciproques,?
Les cahiers de l?analyse de donn?es,5 (1980) No.
2, p.
135-144.
[27] S. E. Robertson and K. Sparck Jones,?
Relevance Weighting of Search Terms ?, Journalof the American Society for Information Science,27:129?146, 1976.
[28] H. Ritter, T. Kohonen, ?Self-OrganizingSemantic Maps,?
Biological Cybernetics, 61(1989) p.
241-254.
[29] G. Salton, The SMART Retrieval System:Experiments in Automatic Document Processing,Prentice Hall Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey,1971.
[30] SOM papers, http://www.cis.hut.fi/nnrc/refs/[31] Y. Toussaint, J.C. Lamirel, M. d?Aquin,?
Combining Symbolic and Numeric Techniquesfor Database Content Analysis, ?
Proceedings ofIEA01, Budapest, Hungary, 2001.
[32] Varsis and C. Versino ?
Clustering of Socio-Economic Data with Kohonen Maps, ?
InProceedings of third International Workshop onParallel Applications in Statistics and Economics,Pragues, Czechoslovakia, december 1992.
[33] H. D. White, X. Lin, K.W.
McCain, ?TwoModes of Automated Domain Analysis:Multidimensional Scaling vs Kohonen FeatureMapping of Information Science Authors,?
inStructures and Relations in KnowledgeOrganization.
Proceeding of the FifthInternational ISKO Conference, Lille, 25-29August 2000.
Edited by W. Mustafa el Hadi, J.Maniez, S.. A. Politt.
Advances in KnowledgeOrganization, 6 (1998) p.
57-63.
[34] P. H. Winston, Artificial Intelligence.Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Reading,Mass., 1977.
[35] C. J.
Van Rijsbergen,  ?
InformationRetrieval?,  Butterworths, London, England, 1975.ANNEX: EXAMPLE OF DYNAMIC ANALYSISDynamic analysis takes place mainly by usingthe inter-map communication mechanism whichmakes it possible to bring to successful conclusionsets of topics deductions between differentviewpoints chosen like investigation subfields.
Thisanalysis is based on the generation of an initialactivity corresponding to the premises of thedeductions to check.
According to the stage ofanalysis, this activity can itself be generatedseveral manners by the analyst on one or moresource maps.
If the activity generation is directlyoperated by analyst on a map, it corresponds thento a broad set of topics questions.
If the activitygeneration is operated indirectly by projection of aquery on a map or by activation of documentsgroup stored beforehand in a document collector,it corresponds then to more targeted questions,which can intervene in one advanced stage of theanalysis.The analyst interest is to highlight the specificareas of competence of the Exxon company.
Onthe simulation of analysis we develop on figure 7,we will consider two different viewpoints, thePatentees viewpoint which will represent thesource of the analysis and the Title viewpointwhich will represent its destination.The analyst starts the process of deduction bygenerating an initial activity on the main Exxontopic (i.e.
Exxon area gravity center) of thePatentees viewpoint map.
To obtain a broad set ofpotential deductions, he selects the Possibilisticmode of deduction [14].
The activity generated bythe inter-map communication mechanism on theTitle viewpoint map is focused in two differentzones of this map, corresponding to two potentialresults.In the first active zone (1), the analyst makesuse of  two different naming strategies to facilitateits interpretation, namely, a naming strategybased on the profile of the topics (more generic)and a naming strategy based on  the profile ofthe best members (i.e.
patents) of the topics (morespecific).
These operations enable him to highlightthat the Exxon company is specialized in acorrelative way on topics: ?marine dieselengine?, ?surfactant system?
and ?basiccalcium compound?.
The expert checks thecorrelation between these topics by consulting thepatents associated to the topic ?surfactantsystem?
(2).
The title of the patents alreadyconfirm him the problematic detected by theapplication.
A thorough examination of thecontents of the documents will show him than thepurpose of use of surfactant containing calcium inaddition with the normal formula of oils is toprotect the combustion chambers of the marinediesel engines against corrosion due to theabsorption of air charged out of salt during theiroperation.
The problem of protection of the marineengines against corrosion is sufficiently importantto represent a field of investigation for an oilmanufacturer like Exxon.The construction of a query containing the singledescriptor ?surfactant system?
(3) on the Titleviewpoint will allow the analyst:1.
To validate the correlation between?surfactant system?
and ?marine diesel engine?topics which will be interpreted by the fact that?surfactant system?
is only associated with?marine diesel engine?.2.
To check the inverse deduction?surfactant system ?
Exxon?
which will insurehim that Exxon is the only company whoseinterest in the conception of ?surfactant system?.The result of the projection of the query on theTitle viewpoint map (4) shows that the generatedactivity is peculiar to the logical topic area?marine diesel engine?, which confirms the firstassumption.
Simultaneously with projection, thedocuments that are relevant for the query arepresented in a Collector (5).
The global activationof these documents allows analyst to initiate a newdeduction.
Then, the result of this latter can beexamined on the Patentees map.
Like only themain Exxon topic has been activated (6), thesecond assumption of the analyst is confirmed.The second active zone (7) generated by theinitial process of deduction will allow the analystto observe that the second major field of activity ofExxon is the ?biodegradable?
oils.
He will beable to also note that these oils are morespecifically used for the lubrication of the two-stroke engines (?two cycle engine?)
that  rejectgenerally much unburned oil.
Probabilistic modeof deduction will allow him to check if the inversededuction, namely, that Exxon is the onlycompany to be worked on biodegradable oils, canbe validated (8).
This process will lead the analystto conclude that ?biodegradable?
oilmanufacturing is shared between Exxon andMobil companies (9), which are the mostimportant oil manufacturers.A complementary use of negative activity settingon the ?two cycle engine?
topic (10) will showmore precisely to the analyst that that Mobilcompany mainly focuses on manufacturing ofbiodegradable oils for ?two stroke engines?
and,in a complementary way, that Mobil company onlyfocuses on manufacturing of biodegradable oilsfor ?four stroke engines?
(11).The simulation of analysis presented here aboveshows clearly how the analyst can make use of theMultiSOM functionalities in order to highlight allthe privileged activity fields of the Exxoncompany starting from a patents database relatedto engineering of oils.
Main functionality is inter-map communication.
Multiple naming strategies,generation of queries and collection ofintermediate results that have been implementedcomplementary to inter-map communication alsoplay an important role in the analysis process.Activated areaInverse validationActivity resultingfrom the inversevalidationAnalysis ofdeductionFocali-zationInverse validationActivity resulting fromthe inverse validationProjection resulting from theinverse validationLegend :Viewpoint  ?Patentees?Viewpoint ?Title?12376 Figure 7: Diagram of the analysis simulation4589=Result = 28,6% and 23%Result = 100%Activated areaCategoricalchoiceResult = 28,6% and 17%Categoricalrejection1110
