Transforming Grammar Checking Technology into a Learning Environmentfor Second Language WritingOla KnutssonIPLab, Numerical Analysisand Computer ScienceRoyal Institute of TechnologySE-100 44 Stockholm, Swedenknutsson@nada.kth.seTeresa Cerratto PargmanK2LAB, Computerand Systems SciencesStockholm UniversitySE-164 40 Kista, Swedentessy@dsv.su.seKerstin Severinson EklundhIPLab, Numerical Analysisand Computer ScienceRoyal Institute of TechnologySE-100 44 Stockholm, Swedenkse@nada.kth.seAbstractThis paper focuses on the transformation ofgrammar checking technology into a learn-ing environment for second language writing.Our starting point is a grammar checker forSwedish, called Granska.
Two studies havebeen conducted aimed at exploring the use ofcomputer support for writing in the context ofsecond language learning.
In the first study, wedeveloped a methodology to study naturalisticwriting, and the impact of the grammar checkeron the writer?s text.
In the second study, wewere interested in how the methodology de-veloped earlier would work in an educationalsetting.
The problems with false alarms andlimited recall are definitely a sensitive issuein the context of second language learners andeducational settings.
Both learners and teach-ers are concerned about the false alarms, andwithout perfectly working text analyzers, newstrategies for dealing with these problems haveto be further explored and developed togetherwith learners and teachers.1 IntroductionLanguage technology programs have been widely dis-cussed as a potential candidate for a tool suitable for theuse in the context of second language writing (see e.g.Chapelle (2001)).
However, in this discussion an import-ant series of questions remain open as for example theone regarding the impact of language technology on thewriting and learning activity.
The uncertainty about therole that language technology programs may play in edu-cational settings is in part related to two facts at least: theexistence of false alarms generated by the program andthe limited recall of important linguistic constructions inthe learners?
texts.The interaction with false alarms can be highly confus-ing in a second language learning context and might in-troduce new language problems than the program is ableto detect and correct.
Furthermore, the emergence of falsealarms during the use of language technology for writingmight make the learner shifts her attention from her textto the alarms.
In such situation, the learner might putmuch energy in dealing with false alarms and eventually,in correcting or reflecting on her text according to themand therefore in getting a false conception of having re-viewed authentic language problems.This paper focuses on the development and the useof writing language tools in the context of second lan-guage.
The vision guiding our work is the idea of study-ing and developing language tools that will be able tohelp writers/learners to reflect on their own language andnot only help them to succeed in their revision tasks.
Inthis sense, we agree with Swain and Lapkin?s hypothesis(1995):?...
in producing the L2, a learner will on oc-casion become aware of (i.e.
notice) a lin-guistic problem brought to his/her attentioneither by external feedback (e.g.
clarificationrequests or internal feedback).
Noticing a prob-lem ?pushes?
the learner to modify his/her out-put.
In doing so, the learner may sometimes beforced into a more syntactic processing modethat might occur in comprehension?
(p. 373cited by Chapelle (2001)).In the light of the limitations of text analysis programs?recall and precision, we need to search for alternativestrategies to aid users to deal with false alarms and limitedfeedback on serious linguistic constructions not identifiedby the program.
Even more important, it is necessary todevelop a tool that also supports the whole writing pro-cess, and not only the revision process.Our starting point is a grammar checker for Swedish,called Granska (Domeij et al, 2000).
We aim at develop-ing Granska further to a language learning environmentcapable to support adequate functionality for second-language learning purpose.
In order to develop suchfunctionality and support we have started to conduct userstudies in educational settings.
The paper presents twostudies guided by the following questions:?
How should we go from grammar checker programsfurther to learning environments for second lan-guage writers??
What kinds of functionality are necessary to supportin such learning environments??
How should researchers and developers work to-gether with teachers and students in order to get achance to introduce computer-assisted learning insecond-language courses?2 BackgroundThe study of acquisition and development of Swedishas a second language is a vast research area that goesback to the early 70?s in Sweden.
In this researchwork, three main perspectives can be distinguished: lin-guistic, socio-linguistic and pedagogical.
Studies con-ducted through these perspectives agree on viewing theacquisition and development of second language as amultifaceted process in which is necessary to combinedifferent foci.
They have, however, most often focusedon the study of speech and the development of immig-rants?
communicative competence (cf.
Kotsinas (1985)).Questions regarding the role of writing during the ac-quisition and development of a second language haveusually been overlooked.
Another common character-istic of all three perspectives is that they have neglectedthe question of the role of language tools in support-ing learning, and more in particular, in helping learnersto reflect on and develop awareness of the languagethey produce.
Furthermore, the use of CALL applic-ations in second-language education is still limited inSweden.
The few educational institutions that have in-troduced CALL applications in their curricula use mostlyemail, chat or multimedia; programs that actually havevery little input from language technology research (cf.Cerratto and Borin (2002)).
In this sense, it should comeas no surprise that computer-assisted language learningapplied to Swedish as a second language rarely incorpor-ates features that are able to analyze learners?
written orspoken productions (cf.
Cerratto and Borin (2002)).Unlike computer-assisted language learning in the con-text of Swedish as a second language, language tools forSwedish have an important place within the writing pro-cess of native speakers.
However, concentrated as theyhave been on the development of robust and highly effi-cient algorithms and rules that are able to correctly detectand diagnose language errors, they have neglected thepedagogical potential of such tools (Vernon, 2000).
De-veloped to support correct writing, they have often beenbased on models of native writers neglecting then writerswho are learning Swedish as a second language.2.1 Granska ?
a Swedish Grammar CheckerGranska is a grammar checker for Swedish developed atthe Royal Institute of Technology in Sweden (Domeij etal., 2000).
It is together with other language tools in-tegrated in a writing environment supporting different as-pects of the writing process.
Granska combines probabil-istic and rule-based methods to achieve high efficiencyand robustness (see also Carlberger and Kann (1999)).Using special error rules, the system can detect a numberof Swedish grammar problems and suggest correctionsfor them that are presented to the user together with in-structional information.
The current version of Granska,used in this study, is designed for native Swedish writers.The core of the Granska system is a statistical PoS-tagger, a collection of phenomena-based grammar check-ing rules, and a robust shallow parser.
In the studiespresented in this paper, Granska was used with a web in-terface.
Granska?s web interface allowed the students touse any word processor they liked on any platform.Granska has been evaluated on five different textgenres including mostly texts from native speakers ofSwedish (Domeij et al, 2002).
The recall was rangingfrom 37% on student essays to 87% on texts from pop-ular science.
The precision of the program was rangingfrom 66% on student essays to 25% on text from inter-national news.
The student essays is the text genre thatmostly resemble the text genre of the learners presentedin this study.
To conclude, we can expect a quite goodprecision, but a rather low recall on the second languagelearners?
texts.
An evaluation of the Swedish grammarchecker in Microsoft Word (Birn, 2000) shows a gram-mar checker with better precision, but lower recall thanGranska.
However, comparisons on the same text genresremain to be done.
One notable difference is that Word?sgrammar checker does not search for the complex errortype split compounds, which Granska does with someloss in precision as a result.2.2 Theoretical FrameworkThe perspective on written language as a tool is groundedin the Socio-cultural perspective (cf.
(Vygotsky, 1978;Engestro?m, 1987; Cole and Engestro?m, 1993; Rabardel,1995; Wertsch, 1998; Bliss and Sa?ljo?, 1999; Be?guin andRabardel, 2000)).
According to this perspective, the mostimportant psychological tool is language, understood asa semiotic resource providing signs that can be flexible,and creatively used in social practices.
One of the fun-damental notions is that there is a psychological relationbetween user -learner- and object of activity -language-through the use of a tool (Rabardel, 1995; Cerratto, 1999;Cerratto Pargman, forthcoming).
This notion inheritedfrom the cultural-historical school of Russian psychologyputs tools in the position of intermediators of human ac-tion.
Considered as intermediators, tools in use are farfrom being transparent.
Just as language carries ideologywithin it, so too do language tools (Haas, 1996).Focus on the Writing ProcessOur interest in writing relies on the central place thatwriting occupies in the development of language andthinking processes (Vygotsky, 1962; Vygotsky, 1978),(Luria, 1946, cited by Downing (1987)).
?Cognitive pro-cesses and structures are transformed significantly by theacquisition of our best-recognized cultural (and intellec-tual) tool, namely, writing?
(Olson (1995), p. 96).
BothVygotsky and Luria suggested that writing not only al-lowed one to do new things but more importantly, turnedspeech and language into objects of reflection and ana-lysis (cf.
Olson (1995)).
From this perspective, writing isof utmost importance as it affects consciousness and cog-nition through providing a model for speech and a theoryfor thinking about what is said.
It is in fact this new con-sciousness of language that is central to the conceptualimplications of writing.
?Far from transcribing speech,writing creates the categories in terms of which we be-come consciousness of speech?
(Olson (1995), p. 119).Language Tools are Viewed as Cognitive PartnersFew are the studies paying attention to the questionof the role of language tools in supporting learning, andmore in particular, in thinking development in order tohelp learners reflect on and develop awareness of the lan-guage they produce.
According to Sa?ljo?
(1996), the roleof tools ?
psychological as well as technical ?
and theconcept of mediation play a fundamental role in the un-derstanding of human thinking and learning.
QuotingWertsch (1998), he emphasizes that ?in contrast to manycontemporary analyses of language which focus on thestructure of the sign systems independent of any medi-ating role they might play, a sociocultural interpretationpresupposes that one conceives of language and othersign systems in terms of how they are part of and mediatehuman action?
(Sa?ljo?
(1996), p. 84?85) ?...
By acquir-ing concepts and discursive tools, we appropriate ways ofunderstanding reality that have developed within particu-lar discursive practices in different sectors in a complexsociety?(Sa?ljo?
(1996) p. 87).According to this view on language and tools, the useof language tools may alter second-language learning andwriting processes.3 Naturalistic Studies on the Use of aSwedish Language ToolWe conducted two studies, first a pilot study and then amore systematic study called study 1.
In the pilot studyconducted, we aimed at developing and testing a meth-odology for data collection in the context of second lan-guage learners using Granska.
We were also interested inthe impact of the grammar checker on the writers?
texts,and how the users have adapted the tool to their writingpurposes.
In the second study we were interested in howthe methodology developed in the pilot study would workin an educational setting.
What we found from the em-pirical studies resulted in a shift of focus.
In fact, we be-came more interested in developing new functionality fora whole second language-learning environment allowingto take account of students, teachers, and their relationwith computers; instead of concentrating us on the devel-opment of a robust grammar checker for second-languagewriters.3.1 Pilot StudyThe aim pursued in this study was to further explore therelation between second language writers?
needs and thepossibilities of a language tool such as Granska.
Thepilot study investigated the use of the language tool bythree-second language writers working as researchers ata Swedish University (Knutsson et al, 2002).
This studyfocused more on the texts (users?
products) than on theprocess of writing second language with the help of a lan-guage tool.
The study showed that the writers followedthe advice provided by the language tool.
In particular,they found detection and correction feedback more help-ful than the diagnosis feature.
The analysis of the writers?texts comprising 2700 words contained totally 223 errors.Focused on the errors found, we discovered that the lan-guage tool detected 36,8% of all errors and proposed cor-rections for about 34,1% of all errors.
The writers de-tected a few of the errors without requiring the languagetool?s advice and repaired some of the errors where thelanguage tool provided detection and diagnosis.
About15 false alarms occurred and they were mostly due to theprogram?s limited knowledge of idiomatic expressions.None of these alarms caused the writers to make changesin their texts.
When looking at the writers?
commentsthey seem to convey a sense of getting annoyed whenthe program continues to detect and provide diagnosis onsentences without for example, finite verbs.
The contextin which we conducted this study was a naturalistic aca-demic working place and that represented a compromise.The users were primarily doing their work and not test-ing a tool in a controlled context, they were writing understress, disposing of little time to systematically save theirdrafts or evaluate the language tool in use.
Their principalgoal of their activity was not learning about the languagetool and their errors but rather to be able to communicatewritten information as proper as possible.
The collec-tion of data was difficult to gather systematically and thatlead us to explore the information collected rather than toconduct comparisons or more refined analysis.
Based onthese preliminary results, we decided to conduct a studyin another naturalistic context with a easier access to thedata.
Study 1 was conducted with a group of studentsattending an advanced course in ?Writing Swedish as aForeign Language?
at the Stockholm University.3.2 Study 1The study focused on the process of second-languagewriting with a language tool.
In particular, we aim atanalyzing the use of the same language tool by a largernumber of writers who were focused more on the pro-cess of language learning than on delivering a text.
Thecontact with the National Program ?Swedish as a ForeignLanguage?
at the department of Scandinavian languages,Stockholm University, made possible the study of the useof Granska by a group of 20 students.
Of the initial 20students 7 accepted to participate in the study and 5 haveactually completed it.The research questions guiding this study were:?
What do second-language writers need from a lan-guage tool??
Which types of mistakes do second language writersoften commit?
Which are the ones that the languagetool better support??
How do second language writers handle false alarmsgenerated by the program??
How much data is it necessary to analyze whenstudying the use of language tool in a second lan-guage learning environment??
How does the teacher regard the use of the languagetool in her classroom?Naturalistic TaskWe had access to the writers?
texts that were part of theregular course on writing Swedish as a second-language.The texts consisted of different genres of texts (argument-ative texts, letters, descriptions, essays etc.)
and on differ-ent subjects.
The learners composed all texts at home anddiscussed them at the university.
The teacher reviewedtheir texts and graded them.About the UsersAll the users were in their third and final semester ofthe language-learning program ?Svenska som fra?mmandespra?k?
?
Swedish as a foreign language ?
This programprepares learners to pass the TISUS (Test I Svenska fo?rUniversitets- och ho?gskoleStudier) a test that is equival-ent to the TOEFL (Test Of English as a Foreign Lan-guage).
All the participants had in average resided inSweden for a period of three years.
They come from dif-ferent parts of the world: Spain, Germany, Russia, Polandand Philippines, see table 1.
They presented mixed back-ground although all had received university education intheir mother tongues.
They also presented diverse de-grees of familiarity with computers.
All the participantssucceeded the course.Method and Data CollectionStudy 1 was conducted in the context of a second-language course.
To study the use of a language tool ina real setting entails, first of all, to introduce the tool intothe new context.
This task requires a lot of effort andentails different steps in a complex process:1.
Establishing contact with the teacher.
Learningabout the course, its goals, its participants, and itstasks.2.
Introducing ourselves and the research project to thecourse.3.
Presenting and explaining the instructions to use andjudge Granska.
Choosing together with the teacherthe text to be revised by the learners using the tool.4.
Distributing the consents forms and the pre-questionnaires to those willing to participate in thestudy.5.
Observing the learners using Granska while they re-vised their texts at the computer lab at the university.Providing help if needed.
Collecting their drafts.6.
Checking if the students had problems when inter-acting with the tool.
Providing help if needed.7.
Collecting their final versions and interviewing thelearners and the teacher.Establishing and developing a relationship with theteacher was fundamental in order to gain her confidenceand thus have the chance to introduce the tool into theclassroom.
It is the teacher who actually decides on theadvantages to let the students use a computer programin their composition tasks.
Planning together with theteacher the introduction of the computer program into theclassroom entailed choosing the class, the writing taskand the time of the year in which the language tool couldbe presented to the students.We collected data through: participant observation,students?
texts, judgment procedure, questionnaires andinterviews.
In this study, we especially encouragedwriters to use the language tool outside the class.
Theprerequisite announced for the users was the following:?use the language tool whenever you want and when youfeel it will help you?.
The control of the data collectionwas thus left to the users.
According to the instructionsthe user should save the original text scrutinized withGranska and also the final version, written after the re-vision aided by Granska.One important part of the data collection consisted oftext material.
This material consisted of the output fromGranska, the final version of text, and user judgments onthe alarms from Granska.Judgment procedureThe judgment procedure was developed in the pilotstudy.
The purpose of the judging procedure was to trackthe users?
decision when prompted with alarms fromGranska.
The users were instructed to use the followinggrading scale:?
Grade 5.
Excellent ?
I understand exactly whatGranska suggests.?
Grade 4.
Good ?
Granska is a quite good help forme.?
Grade 3.
Acceptable ?
It is hard for me to make upmy mind on what Granska says, but I take a chancethat Granska is right.?
Grade 2.
Bad ?
It is hard for me to make up my mindon what Granska says, I have to look in my grammarbook.
With the help of the book I can decide if Ishould follow Granska or not.?
Grade 1.
Incomprehensible ?
I do not understandwhat Granska says.
I have to ask the teacher orsome other competent person for help.The users were requested to use the grading scale inorder to judge the detections, diagnoses and correctionproposals from Granska.
Definitions of detections, dia-gnoses and corrections were given.
Every scrutinized textwas supposed to be annotated with user judgments on thealarms from the program.
The annotations should prefer-ably be made electronically, but it was also possible forthe users to print out the output from Granska, and maketheir annotations on paper.3.3 Data AnalysisAbout the texts and the errorsThe texts collected were limited in size, although wecould identify some tendencies in the texts.
The textswere not full of errors.
The clauses and sentences werevery often quite well formed, and in most cases, they havea subject and main verb structure; in other words, they arequite close to the norm.
One finding was that the groupof learners chosen, constituted a adequate target group forthe use of language tools such as Granska.Granska detected about 35% of all errors.
An errortypology together with Granska?s detections, diagnosesand corrections is presented in table 2.Most of the undetected errors were syntactical errors.These syntactical errors were mostly word order errors,missing words, or problems with choice of prepositionin certain verb frames.
Granska?s recall on target errorswas quite good, so the main focus for our future effortsshould contain methods for the detection of currently un-recognized errors, and to support the user when she triesto incorporate Granska?s advice into her writing process.One serious problem was collecting the final versionsof students?
texts.
The final text version actually tracksthe user decisions when prompted with Granska?s alarms.Even students that did not participate in the study werevery glad about the judgment procedure; but they werenot willing to give us the final versions of their texts.Maybe they thought that the final version was somethingbetween them and the teacher.Another problem was the authentic value of the texts.A large amount of data seemed when analyzed to be false;one writer has copied a lot of text from a book.
Thismade us of aware of the fact that only personal, often ar-gumentative texts could be part of these kinds of studies.The results presented in this study consist mostly of ar-gumentative texts.Regarding the judgment procedure, we observed thatthe user judgments gave important cues to the under-standing of the user?s needs during the revision processand seemed not to disturb the user too much.
Instead, theusers seemed to appreciate this task (see interviews).
Seetable 3 for some results on the user judgments.The analysis of the interviewsThe analysis of the participants?
answers allowed usto better understand how they experienced the use of thelanguage tool in their learning contexts.The participants observed presented mixed levels offamiliarity with computers programs.
Some were keenabout using computers and showed experience in usingMicrosoft Word, e-mail programs while others presen-ted problems in attaching texts to mails or saving files inother formats.
The heterogeneity of their computer liter-acy made it clear the necessity to introduce a course onbasic knowledge about using computers.Participants found it difficult to interact with the pro-gram due to:?
false alarms,?
the number and type of language explanations to selectwhen correcting a language error,?
misunderstandings about error indication provided bythe program,?
lack of experience in working with more than one win-dow open on the computer,?
changing formats and sending documents by e-mail.Participants enjoyed using the program due to:?
the different colors indicating different steps in the re-vision of the language,?
the possibility to get access to different explanations,?
the linguistic terms that the program employs, althoughsome of them resulted difficult to fully understand.When asking participants about how we could improvethe presentation of the program to other groups of stu-dents, they said that we should consider to:?
include more computer training at the beginning of thestudy?
give a more active role to the teacher before and duringthe study,?
remind participants on their duty to send their material,?
challenge participants as much as possible.4 DiscussionPreliminary results obtained from naturalistic studiesconducted in working and educational contexts, can besummarized in the following thoughts:From grammar checkers to second-language learningenvironmentFirst, we think that given the unpredictability of thegrammatical forms that a learner may produce, it seemsinaccurate to write a program that will recognize thelearner?s language.
As Chapelle writes ?the question forcomputer aided second-language is not whether or not thecomputational grammar is a good theoretical account ofthe language within a particular domain, but instead iswhether or not the program is able to interact with thelearner in a way that is useful relative to its purpose?
(Chapelle (2001), p. 36).
Second, we understand thata more adequate way to help second language writersin their learning purpose is to support the resources thatthey develop when composing and revising a text.
Byresources, we mean those second-language writers buildduring the acquisition of the target language.
We refer tofor example linguistic strategies put in use for the recog-nition of errors.
We think that instead of imposing ?cor-rect Swedish?
to succeed composing a text, we shouldinnovate ways in order to help second-language writersreason about language.Focus on linguistic formWe believe that new ways to support reasoning aboutlanguage is to concentrate efforts on helping learners tonotice and attend to linguistic form for acquisition.
Someresearchers refer to ?focus on form?
that is about how thelearner?s focal attentional resources are allocated.
?Fo-cus on form often consists of a shift of attention to lin-guistic code features ?
by the teachers and/or one or morestudents ?
triggered by perceived problems with compre-hension or production Long and Robinson (1998 cited byChapelle (2001) p. 47).
We think that language toolscould play a role in this process of helping learners tofocus on form.The implementation of Writing Tools in EducationalSettingsAs second language learners are a heterogeneousgroup of learners it is difficult to study them withoutidentifying a suitable user group capable to interactwith writing tools and with a certain level of languageknowledge.
The context of an undergraduate course inSwedish as a foreign language gave then us control of theuser?s language competence.The educational setting also provided us informationon grammatical knowledge and terms developed in thecourse.
It is crucial for future applications to con-verge to grammatical knowledge and terms that the usersare learning.
But as this will probably consolidate thelearners trust in the program, with the teacher?s gram-matical terms echoing in the feedback from program, theeffects of false alarms and limited recall will probablybecome an even more intricate question to be studied.AcknowledgementsWe thank teachers and users who have participated in thestudies.
The work has been funded by the Swedish Re-search Council (VR).ReferencesJ.
Birn.
2000.
Detecting grammar errors with ling-soft?s Swedish grammar checker.
In T. Nordga?rd, ed-itor, Nodalida ?99 Proceedings from the 12th Nordiskedatalingvistikkdager, pages 28?40.
Department of Lin-guistics, University of Trondheim.J.
Bliss and R. Sa?ljo?.
1999.
The human - technologicaldialectic.
In J. Bliss, R.
Sa?ljo?, and P. Light, editors,Learning sites.
Social and Technological resources forlearning, pages 1?13.
Pergamon.P.
Be?guin and P. Rabardel.
2000.
Designing forinstrument-mediated activity.
Scandinavian Journal ofinformation Systems, pages 173?190.J.
Carlberger and V. Kann.
1999.
Implementing an ef-ficient part-of-speech tagger.
Software - Practice andExperience, 29(9):815?832.T.
Cerratto and L. Borin.
2002.
Swedish as a secondlanguage and computer aided learning language.
Over-view of the research area.
Technical Report TRITA-NA-P0206, Department of Numerical Analysis andComputer Science, Royal Institute of Technology,Stockholm, Sweden.T.
Cerratto Pargman.
forthcoming.
Collaborating withwriting tools: an instrumental perspective on the prob-lem of computer support for collaborative activit-ies.
Interacting with Computers: the InterdisciplinaryJournal of Human-Computer Interaction.T.
Cerratto.
1999.
Activite?
collaborative sur re?seau.
Uneapproche instrumentale de l?
e?criture en collaboration.
(Collaborative networked activities.
An instrumentalapproach to collaborative writing).
Ph.D. thesis, Uni-versity of Paris VIII-St. Denis, Paris, France.C.
A. Chapelle.
2001.
Computer Applications in SecondLanguage Acquistion.
Foundations for teching, testingand research.
Cambridge University Press, UK.M.
Cole and Y. Engestro?m.
1993.
A cultural-historicalapproach to distributed cognition.
In G. Salomon, ed-itor, Distributed Cognitions, pages 1?47.
CambridgeUniversity Press.R.
Domeij, O. Knutsson, J. Carlberger, and V. Kann.2000.
Granska ?
an efficient hybrid system forSwedish grammar checking.
In T. Nordga?rd, ed-itor, Nodalida ?99 Proceedings from the 12th Nordiskedatalingvistikkdager, pages 28?40.
Department of Lin-guistics, University of Trondheim.R.
Domeij, O. Knutsson, and K. Severinson Eklundh.2002.
Different ways of evaluating a Swedish gram-mar checker.
In Proc.
3rd Int.
Conf.
Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC 2002), Las Palmas,Spain.J.
Downing.
1987.
Comparative perspectives on worldliteracy.
In D. Wagner, editor, The future of literacy ina changing world, pages 25?47.
Pergamon Press.Y.
Engestro?m.
1987.
Learning by expanding: an activitytheoretical approach to developmental research.
Tech-nical report, Orienta-Konsultit oy, Helsinki.C.
Haas.
1996.
Writing technology.
Studies in the mater-iality of literacy.
LEA.O.
Knutsson, T. Cerratto Pargman, and K. Severin-son Eklundh.
2002.
Computer support for second lan-guage learners?
free text production - initial studies.
InProceedings of ICL2002, 5th International Workshopon Interactive Computer Aided Learning, Villach, Aus-tria.U-B.
Kotsinas.
1985.
Invandrare talar svenska.
Liber.D.
Olson.
1995.
Writing and the mind.
In J. Wertsch,P.
Del Rio, and A. Alvarez, editors, SocioculturalStudies of Mind, pages 95?123.
Cambridge UniversityPress.P.
Rabardel.
1995.
Les activite?s avec instruments.
Colin.R.
Sa?ljo?.
1996.
Mental and physical artifacts in cog-nitive practices.
In P. Reimann and H. Spada, editors,Learning in humans and machines.
Towards an inter-disciplinary learning science.
Pergamon.A.
Vernon.
2000.
Computerized gammar checkers 2000:Capabilities, limitations, and pedagogical possibilities.Computers and Composition, pages 329?349.L.
Vygotsky.
1962.
Thought and language.
MIT Press.L.
Vygotsky.
1978.
Mind and Society : The developmentof higher psychological processes.
Harvard UniversityPress.J.
V. Wertsch.
1998.
Mind as action.
Oxford UniversityPress.User Native Language Graded Texts F inal version No.
of Words InterviewA Russian and Belrussian 1 0 71 Y esB German 1 1 270 Y esC Polish 1 1 517 Y esD English, F ilipino (Tagalog dialect) 1 1 8438 Y esE Russian 0 0 0 Y esF Russian 0 0 0 Y esG Spanish 2 2 503 Y esTable 1: User data.Error type Errors Detections and Diagnoses CorrectionsTypographical 1 0 0Orthographical 1 1 1Syntactical 45 18 13Semantical 7 0 0Total 54 19 (35%) 14 (26%)Table 2: Error typology.
Number of errors, and Granska?s detections, diagnoses and corrections.Error type Detections Diagnoses Corrections#judgments Mean value #judgments Mean value #judgments Mean valueTypographical 0 ?
0 ?
0 ?Orthographical 1 5.0 1 4.0 1 2.0Syntactical 14 3.7 14 3.4 14 3.4Semantical 0 ?
0 ?
0 ?Total 16 3.8 16 3.2 16 3.1Table 3: Users?
judgments with mean values of grades.
Number of judged detections, diagnoses and corrections fromGranska.
