Unsupervised Monolingual and Bilingual Word-SenseDisambiguation of Medical Documents using UMLSDominic Widdows, Stanley Peters, Scott Cederberg, Chiu-Ki ChanStanford University, California{dwiddows,peters,cederber,ckchan}@csli.stanford.eduDiana SteffenConsultants for Language Technology,Saarbru?cken, Germanysteffen@clt-st.dePaul BuitelaarDFKI, Saarbru?cken, Germanypaulb@dfki.deAbstractThis paper describes techniques for unsu-pervised word sense disambiguation of En-glish and German medical documents us-ing UMLS.
We present both monolingualtechniques which rely only on the structureof UMLS, and bilingual techniques whichalso rely on the availability of parallel cor-pora.
The best results are obtained usingrelations between terms given by UMLS,a method which achieves 74% precision,66% coverage for English and 79% preci-sion, 73% coverage for German on evalua-tion corpora and over 83% coverage over thewhole corpus.
The success of this techniquefor German shows that a lexical resourcegiving relations between concepts used toindex an English document collection canbe used for high quality disambiguation inanother language.1 IntroductionThis paper reports on experiments in monolingualand multilingual word sense disambiguation (WSD)in the medical domain using the Unified MedicalLanguage System (UMLS).
The work described wascarried out as part of the MUCHMORE project 1 formultilingual organisation and retrieval of medical in-formation, for which WSD is particularly important.The importance of WSD to multilingual applica-tions stems from the simple fact that meanings repre-sented by a single word in one language may be rep-resented by multiple words in other languages.
TheEnglish word drug when referring to medically ther-apeutic drugs would be translated as medikamente,1http://muchmore.dfki.dewhile it would be rendered as drogen when referringto a recreationally taken narcotic substance of thekind that many governments prohibit by law.The ability to disambiguate is therefore essentialto the task of machine translation ?
when translat-ing from English to Spanish or from English to Ger-man we would need to make the distinctions men-tioned above and other similar ones.
Even short ofthe task of full translation, WSD is crucial to ap-plications such as cross-lingual information retrieval(CLIR), since search terms entered in the languageused for querying must be appropriately rendered inthe language used for retrieval.
WSD has become awell-established subfield of natural language process-ing with its own evaluation standards and SENSE-VAL competitions (Kilgarriff and Rosenzweig, 2000).Methods for WSD can effectively be divided intothose that require manually annotated training data(supervised methods) and those that do not (unsu-pervised methods) (Ide and Ve?ronis, 1998).
In gen-eral, supervised methods are less scalable than unsu-pervised methods because they rely on training datawhich may be costly and unrealistic to produce, andeven then might be available for only a few ambigu-ous terms.
The goal of our work on disambiguationin the MUCHMORE project is to enable the correctsemantic annotation of entire document collectionswith all terms which are potentially relevant for or-ganisation, retrieval and summarisation of informa-tion.
Therefore a decision was taken early on in theproject that we should focus on unsupervised meth-ods, which have the potential to be scaled up enoughto meet our needs.This paper is arranged as follows.
In Section 2 wedescribe the lexical resource (UMLS) and the cor-pora we used for our experiments.
We then describeand evaluate three different methods for disambigua-tion.
The bilingual method (Section 3) takes ad-vantage of our having a translated corpus, becauseknowing the translation of an ambiguous word canbe enough to determine its sense.
The collocationalmethod (Section 4) uses the occurence of a term in arecognised fixed expression to determine its meaning.UMLS relation based methods (Section 5) use rela-tions between terms in UMLS to determine whichsense is being used in a particular instance.
Othertechniques used in the MUCHMORE project in-clude domain-specific sense selection (Buitelaar andSacaleanu, 2001), used to select senses appropri-ate to the medical domain from a general lexicalresource, and instance-based learning, a machine-learning technique that has been adapted for word-sense disambiguation (Widdows et al, 2003).2 Language resources used in theseexperiments2.1 Lexical Resource ?
UMLSThe Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) isa resource that contains linguistic, terminologicaland semantic information in the medical domain.2It is organised in three parts: Specialist Lexi-con, MetaThesaurus and Semantic Network.
TheMetaThesaurus contains concepts from more than60 standardised medical thesauri, of which for ourpurposes we only use the concepts from MeSH (theMedical Subject Headings thesaurus).
This decisionis based on the fact that MeSH is also available inGerman.
The semantic information that we use inannotation is the so-called Concept Unique Identifier(CUI), a code that represents a concept in the UMLSMetaThesaurus.
We consider the possible ?senses?
ofa term to be the set of CUI?s which list this termas a possible realisation.
For example, UMLS con-tains the term trauma as a possible realisation of thefollowing two concepts:C0043251 Injuries and Wounds: Woundsand Injuries: trauma: traumatic disorders:Traumatic injury:C0021501 Physical Trauma: Trauma(Physical): trauma:Each of these CUI?s is a possible sense of the termtrauma.
The term trauma is therefore noted as am-biguous, since it can be used to express more thanone UMLS concept.
The purpose of disambiguationis to find out which of these possible senses is ac-tually being used in each particular context wherethere term trauma is used.2UMLS is freely available under license fromthe United States National Library of Medicine,http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/CUI?s in UMLS are also interlinked to each otherby a number of relations.
These include:?
?Broader term?
which is similar to the hyper-nymy relation in WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998).
Ingeneral, x is a ?broader term?
for y if every y isalso a (kind of) x.?
More generally, ?related terms?
are listed, wherepossible relationships include ?is like?, ?is clini-cally associated with?.?
Cooccurring concepts, which are pairs of con-cepts which are linked in some informationsource.
In particular, two concepts are regardedas cooccurring if they have both been used tomanually index the same document in MED-LINE.
We will refer to such pairs of conceptsas coindexing concepts.?
Collocations and multiword expressions.
For ex-ample, the term liver transplant is included sep-arately in UMLS, as well as both the terms liverand transplant.
This information can sometimesbe used for disambiguation.2.2 The Springer Corpus of MedicalAbstractsThe experiments and implementations of WSD de-scribed in this paper were all carried out on a par-allel corpus of English-German medical scientific ab-stracts obtained from the Springer Link web site.3The corpus consists approximately of 1 million to-kens for each language.
Abstracts are from 41 medi-cal journals, each of which constitutes a relatively ho-mogeneous medical sub-domain (e.g.
Neurology, Ra-diology, etc.).
The corpus was automatically markedup with morphosyntactic and semantic information,as described by S?pela Vintar et al (2002).
In brief,whenever a token is encountered in the corpus that islisted as a term in UMLS, the document is annotatedwith the CUI under which that term is listed.
Ambi-guity is introduced by this markup process becausethe lexical resources often list a particular term as apossible realisation of more than one concept or CUI,as with the trauma example above, in which casethe document is annotated with all of these possibleCUI?s.The number of tokens of UMLS terms included bythis annotation process is given in Table 1.
The tableshows how many tokens were found by the annota-tion process, listed according to how many possiblesenses each of these tokens was assigned in UMLS (sothat the number of ambiguous tokens is the number3http://link.springer.de/Number of Senses 1 2 3 4Before DisambiguationEnglish 223441 31940 3079 56German 124369 7996 0 0After DisambiguationEnglish 252668 5299 568 5German 131302 1065 0 0Table 1: The number of tokens of terms that have 1,2, 3 and 4 possible senses in the Springer corpusof tokens with more than one possible sense).
Thegreater number of concepts found in the English cor-pus reflects the fact that UMLS has greater cover-age for English than for German, and secondly thatthere are many small terms in English which are ex-pressed by single words which would be expressedby larger compound terms in German (for exam-ple knee + joint = kniegelenk).
Table 1 also showshow many tokens of UMLS concepts were in the an-notated corpus after we applied the disambiguationprocess described in Section 5, which proved to beour most successful method.
As can be seen, ourdisambiguation methods resolved some 83% of theambiguities in the English corpus and 87% of theambiguities in the German corpus (we refer to thisproportion as the ?Coverage?
of the method).
How-ever, this only measures the number of disambigua-tion decisions that were made: in order to determinehow many of these decisions were correct, evaluationcorpora were needed.2.3 Evaluation CorporaAn important aspect of word sense disambiguation isthe evaluation of different methods and parameters.Unfortunately, there is a lack of test sets for evalu-ation, specifically for languages other than Englishand even more so for specific domains like medicine.Given that our work focuses on German as well asEnglish text in the medical domain, we had to de-velop our own evaluation corpora in order to test ourdisambiguation methods.Because in the MUCHMORE project we devel-oped an extensive format for linguistic and semanticannotation (S?pela Vintar et al, 2002) that includesannotation with UMLS concepts, we could automat-ically generate lists of all ambiguous UMLS types(English and German) along with their token fre-quencies in the corpus.
Using these lists we selected aset of 70 frequent types for English (token frequenciesat least 28, 41 types having token frequencies over100).
For German, we only selected 24 ambiguoustypes (token frequencies at least 11, 7 types havingtoken frequencies over 100) because there are fewerambiguous terms in the German annotation (see Ta-ble 1).
We automatically selected instances to beannotated using a random selection of occurrences ifthe token frequency was higher than 100, and usingall occurrences if the token frequency was lower than100.
The level of ambiguity for these UMLS terms ismostly limited to only 2 senses; only 7 English termshave 3 senses.Correct senses of the English tokens in contextwere chosen by three medical experts, two nativespeakers of German and one of English.
The Ger-man evaluation corpus was annotated by the twoGerman speakers.
Interannotator agreement for in-dividual terms ranged from very low to very high,with an average of 65% for German and 51% for En-glish (where all three annotators agreed).
The rea-sons for this low score are still under investigation.In some cases, the UMLS definitions were insufficientto give a clear distinction between concepts, espe-cially when the concepts came from different origi-nal thesauri.
This allowed the decision of whethera particular definition gave a meaningful ?sense?
tobe more or less subjective.
Approximately half ofthe disagreements between annotators occured withterms where interannotator agreement was less than10%, which is evidence that a significant amount ofthe disagreement between annotators was on the typelevel rather than the token level.
In other cases, itis possible that there was insufficient contextual in-formation provided for annotators to agree.
If one ofthe annotators was unable to choose any of the sensesand declared an instance to be ?unspecified?, this alsocounted against interannotator agreement.
What-ever is responsible, our interannotator agreement fellfar short of the 88%-100% achieved in SENSEVAL(Kilgarriff and Rosenzweig, 2000, ?7), and until thisproblem is solved or better datasets are found, thispoor agreement casts doubt on the generality of theresults obtained in this paper.A ?gold standard?
was produced for the GermanUMLS evaluation corpus and used to evaluate thedisambiguation of German UMLS concepts.
The En-glish experiments were evaluated on those tokens forwhich the annotators agreed.
More details and dis-cussion of the annotation process is available in theproject report (Widdows et al, 2003).In the rest of this paper we describe the techniquesthat used these resources to build systems for wordsense disambiguation, and evaluate their level of suc-cess.3 Bilingual DisambiguationThe mapping between word-forms and senses differsacross languages, and for this reason the importanceof word-sense disambiguation has long been recog-nised for machine translation.
By the same token,pairs of translated documents naturally contain in-formation for disambiguation.
For example, if in aparticular context the English word drugs is trans-lated into French as drogues rather than medica-ments, then the English word drug is being usedto mean narcotics rather than medicines.
This ob-servation has been used for some years on varyingscales.
Brown et al (1991) pioneered the use of sta-tistical WSD for translation, building a translationmodel from one million sentences in English andFrench.
Using this model to help with translationdecisions (such as whether prendre should be trans-lated as take or make), the number of acceptabletranslations produced by their system increased by8%.
Gale et al (1992) use parallel translations toobtain training and testing data for word-sense dis-ambiguation.
Ide (1999) investigates the informationmade available by a translation of George Orwell?sNineteen Eighty-four into six languages, using thisto analyse the related senses of nine ambiguous En-glish words into hierarchical clusters.These applications have all been case studies of ahandful of particularly interesting words.
The largescale of the semantic annotation carried out by theMUCHMORE project has made it possible to extendthe bilingual disambiguation technique to entire dic-tionaries and corpora.To disambiguate an instance of an ambiguousterm, we consulted the translation of the abstractin which it appeared.
We regarded the translatedabstract as disambiguating the ambiguous term if itmet the following two criteria:?
Only one of the CUI?s was assigned to any termin the translated abstract.?
At least one of the terms to which this CUIwas assigned in the translated abstract was un-ambiguous (i.e.
was not also assigned anotherCUI).3.1 Results for Bilingual DisambiguationWe attempted both to disambiguate terms in theGerman abstracts using the corresponding Englishabstracts, and to disambiguate terms in the Englishabstracts using the corresponding German ones.
Inthis collection of documents, we were able to disam-biguate 1802 occurrences of 63 English terms and1500 occurrences of 43 German terms.
Comparingthis with the evaluation corpora gave the results inTable 2.44In all of the results presented in this paper, Precisionis the proportion of decisions made which were correctPrecision Recall CoverageEnglish 81% 18% 22%German 66% 22% 33%Table 2: Results for bilingual disambiguationAs can be seen, the recall and coverage of thismethod is not especially good but the precision (atleast for English) is very high.
The German resultscontain roughly the same proportion of correct deci-sions as the English, but many more incorrect onesas well.Our disambiguation results break down into threecases:1.
Terms ambiguous in one language that translateas multiple unambiguous terms in the other lan-guage; one of the meanings is medical and theother is not.2.
Terms ambiguous in one language that trans-late as multiple unambiguous terms in the otherlanguage; both of the terms are medical.3.
Terms that are ambiguous between two mean-ings that are difficult to distinguish.One striking aspect of the results was that rel-atively few terms were disambiguated to differentsenses in different occurrences.
This phenomenonwas particularly extreme in disambiguating the Ger-man terms; of the 43 German terms disambiguated,42 were assigned the same sense every time we wereable to disambiguate them.
Only one term, Metas-tase, was assigned difference senses; 88 times it wasassigned CUI C0027627 (?The spread of cancer fromone part of the body to another ...?, associated withthe English term Metastasis and 6 times it was as-signed CUI C0036525 ?Used with neoplasms to in-dicate the secondary location to which the neoplas-tic process has metastasized?, corresponding to theEnglish terms metastastic and secondary).
Metas-tase therefore falls into category 2 from above, al-though the distinction between the two meanings isrelatively subtle.The first and third categories above account forthe vast majority of cases, in which only one mean-ing is ever selected.
It is easy to see why this wouldaccording to the evaluation corpora, Recall is the pro-portion of instances in the evaluation corpora for whicha correct decision was made, and Coverage is the propor-tion of instances in the evaluation corpora for which anydecision was made.
It follows thatRecall = Precision ?
Coverage.happen in the first category, and it is what we wantto happen.
For instance, the German term Krebsecan refer either to crabs (Crustaceans) or to cancer-ous growths; it is not surprising that only the lattermeaning turns up in the corpus under considerationand that we can determine this from the unambigu-ous English translation cancers.In English somewhat more terms were disam-biguated multiple ways: eight terms were assignedtwo different senses across their occurrences.
Allthree types of ambiguity were apparent.
For in-stance, the second type (medical/medical ambiguity)appeared for the term Aging, which can refer eitherto aging people (Alte Menschen) or to the process ofaging itself (Altern); both meanings appeared in ourcorpus.In general, the bilingual method correctly find themeanings of approximately one fifth of the ambigu-ous terms, and makes only a few mistakes for Englishbut many more for German.4 Collocational disambiguationBy a ?collocation?
we mean a fixed expression formedby a group of words occuring together, such asblood vessel or New York.
(For the purposes ofthis paper we only consider contiguous multiwordexpressions which are listed in UMLS.)
There is astrong and well-known tendency for words to ex-press only one sense in a given collocation.
Thisproperty of words was first described and quantifiedby Yarowsky (1993), and has become known gen-erally as the ?One Sense Per Collocation?
property.Yarowsky (1995) used the one sense per collocationproperty as an essential ingredient for an unsuper-vised Word-Sense Disambiguation algorithm.
For ex-ample, the collocations plant life and manufacturingplant are used as ?seed-examples?
for the living thingand building senses of plant, and these examples canthen be used as high-precision training data to per-form more general high-recall disambiguation.While Yarowsky?s algorithm is unsupervised (thealgorithm does not need a large collection of anno-tated training examples), it still needs direct humanintervention to recognise which ambiguous terms areamenable to this technique, and to choose appropri-ate ?seed-collocations?
for each sense.
Thus the algo-rithm still requires expert human judgments, whichleads to a bottleneck when trying to scale such meth-ods to provide Word-Sense Disambiguation for awhole document collection.A possible method for widening this bottleneck isto use existing lexical resources to provide seed collo-cations.
The texts of dictionary definitions have beenused as a traditional source of information for disam-biguation (Lesk, 1986).
The richly detailed structureof UMLS provides a special opportunity to combineboth of these approaches, because many multiwordexpressions and collocations are included in UMLSas separate concepts.For example, the term pressure has the followingthree senses in UMLS, each of which is assigned to adifferent semantic type (TUI):Sense of pressure Semantic TypePhysical pressure Quantitative Concept(C0033095)Pressure - action Therapeutic or(C0460139) Preventive ProcedureBaresthesia, sensationof pressure (C0234222)Organ or Tissue Func-tionMany other collocations and compounds which in-clude the word pressure are also of these semantictypes, as summarised in the following table:QuantitativeConceptmean pressure, bar pressure,population pressureTherapeuticProcedureorthostatic pressure, acupres-sureOrgan or TissueFunctionarterial pressure, lung pres-sure, intraocular pressureThis leads to the hypothesis that the term pres-sure, when used in any of these collocations, is usedwith the meaning corresponding to the same seman-tic type.
This allows deductions of the followingform:Collocation bar pressure, mean pressureSemantic type Quantitative ConceptSense of pressure C0033095, physical pressureSince nearly all English and German multiwordtechnical medical terms are head-final, it follows thatthe a multiword term is usually of the same seman-tic type as its head, the final word.
(So for example,lung cancer is a kind of cancer, not a kind of lung.
)For English, UMLS 2001 contains over 800,000 multi-word expressions the last word in which is also a termin UMLS.
Over 350,000 of these expressions have alast word which on its own, with no other context,would be regarded as ambiguous (has more that oneCUI in UMLS).
Over 50,000 of these multiword ex-pressions are unambiguous, with a unique semantictype which is shared by only one of the meanings ofthe potentially ambiguous final word.
The ambigu-ity of the final word in such multiword expressionsis thus resolved, providing over 50,000 ?seed colloca-tions?
for use in semantically annotating documentswith disambiguated word senses.4.1 Results for collocational disambiguationUnfortunately, results for collocational disambigua-tion (Table 3) were disappointing compared with thepromising number of seed collocations we expectedto find.
Precision was high, but comparatively fewof the collocations suggested by UMLS were foundin the Springer corpus.Precision Recall CoverageEnglish 79% 3% 4%German 82% 1% 1.2%Table 3: Results for collocational disambiguationIn retrospect, this may not be surprising given thatmany of the ?collocations?
in UMLS are rather col-lections of words such asC0374270 intracoronary percutaneousplacement s single stent transcatheter vesselwhich would almost never occur in natural text.Thus very few of the potential collocations we ex-tracted from UMLS actually occurred in the Springercorpus.
This scarcity was especially pronounced forGerman, because so many terms which are severalwords in English are compounded into a single wordin German.
For example, the termC0035330 retinal vesseldoes occur in the (English) Springer corpus and con-tains the ambiguous word vessel, whose ambiguity issuccessfully resolved using the collocational method.However, in German this concept is represented bythe single wordC0035330 Retinagefaesseand so this ambiguity never arises in the first place.It should still be remarked that the few decisionsthat were made by the collocational method werevery accurate, demonstrating that we can get somehigh precision results using this method.
It is pos-sible that recall could be improved by relaxing theconditions which a multiword expression in UMLSmust satisfy to be used as a seed-collocation.5 Disambiguation using relatedUMLS terms found in the samecontextWhile the collocational method turned out to givedisappointing recall, it showed that accurate infor-mation could be extracted directly from the existingUMLS and used for disambiguation, without extrahuman intervention or supervision.
What we neededwas advice on how to get more of this high-qualityinformation out of UMLS, which we still believed tobe a very rich source of information which we werenot yet exploiting fully.
Fortunately, no less than 3additional sources of information for disambiguationusing related terms from UMLS were suggested by amedical expert.5 The suggestion was that we shouldconsider terms that were linked by conceptual rela-tions (as given by the MRREL and MRCXT filesin the UMLS source) and which were noted as coin-dexing concepts in the same MEDLINE abstract (asgiven by the MRCOC file in the UMLS source).
Foreach separate sense of an ambiguous word, this wouldgive a set of related concepts, and if examples of anyof these related concepts were found in the corpusnear to one of the ambiguous words, it might indi-cate that the correct sense of the ambiguous wordwas the one related to this particular concept.This method is effectively one of the many variantsof Lesk?s (1986) original dictionary-based method fordisambiguation, where the words appearing in thedefinitions of different senses of ambiguous words areused to indicate that those senses are being used ifthey are observed near the ambiguous word.
How-ever, we gain over purely dictionary-based methodsbecause the words that occur in dictionary defini-tions rarely correspond well with those that occurin text.
The information we collected from UMLSdid not suffer from this drawback: the pairs of coin-dexing concepts from MRCOC were derived preciselyfrom human judgements that these two conceptsboth occured in the same text in MEDLINE.The disambiguation method proceeds as follows.For each ambiguous word w, we find its possiblesenses {sj(w)}.
For each sense sj , find all CUI?sin MRREL, MRCXT or MRCOC files that are re-lated to this sense, and call this set {crel(sj)}.
Thenfor each occurrence of the ambiguous word w in thecorpus we examine the local context to see if a termt occurs whose sense6 (CUI) is one of the conceptsin {crel(sj)}, and if so take this as positive evidencethat the sense sj is the appropriate one for this con-text, by increasing the score of sj by 1.
In this way,each sense sj in context gets assigned a score whichmeasures the number of terms in this context whichare related to this sense.
Finally, choose the sense5Personal communication from Stuart Nelson (instru-mental in the design of UMLS), at the MUCHMOREworkshop in Croatia, September 2002.6This fails to take into account that the term t mightitself be ambiguous ?
it is possible that results could beimproved still further by allowing for mutual disambigua-tion of more than one term at once.with the highest score.One open question for this algorithm is what re-gion of text to use as a context-window.
We experi-mented with using sentences, documents and wholesubdomains, where a ?subdomain?
was considered tobe all of the abstracts appearing in one of the jour-nals in the Springer corpus, such as Arthroskopieor Der Chirurg.
Thus our results (for each lan-guage) vary according to which knowledge sourceswere used (Conceptually Related Terms from MR-REL and MRCXT or coindexing terms from MR-COC, or a combination), and according to whetherthe context-window for recording cooccurence was asentence, a document or a subdomain.5.1 Results for disambiguation based onrelated UMLS conceptsThe results obtained using this method (Tables 5.1and 5.1) were excellent, preserving (and in somecases improving) the high precision of the bilingualand collocational methods while greatly extendingcoverage and recall.
The results obtained by usingthe coindexing terms for disambiguation were partic-ularly impressive, which coincides with a long-heldview in the field that terms which are topically re-lated to a target word can be much richer clues fordisambiguation that terms which are (say) hierarchi-cally related.
We are very fortunate to have sucha wealth of information about the cooccurence ofpairs of concepts through UMLS, which appears tohave provided the benefits of cooccurence data froma manually annotated training sample without hav-ing to perform the costly manual annotation.In particular, for English (Table 5.1), results wereactually better using only coindexing terms ratherthan combining this information with hierarchicallyrelated terms: both precision and recall are bestwhen using only the MRCOC knowledge source.
Aswe had expected, recall and coverage increased butprecision decreased slightly when using larger con-texts.The German results (Table 5.1) were slightly dif-ferent, and even more successful, with nearly 60% ofthe evaluation corpus being correctly disambiguated,nearly 80% of the decisions being correct.
Here, therewas some small gain when combining the knowledgesources, though the results using only coindexingterms were almost as good.
For the German experi-ments, using larger contexts resulted in greater recalland greater precision.
This was unexpected ?
onehypothesis is that the sparser coverage of the GermanUMLS contributed to less predictable results on thesentence level.These results are comparable with some of the bet-ter SENSEVAL results (Kilgarriff and Rosenzweig,2000) which used fully supervised methods, thoughthe comparison may not be accurate because we arechoosing between fewer senses than on avarage inSENSEVAL, and because of the doubts over our in-terannotator agreement.Comparing these results with the number of wordsdisambiguated in the whole corpus (Table 1), it isapparent that the average coverage of this method isactually higher for the whole corpus (over 80%) thanfor the words in the evaluation corpus.
It is possiblethat this reflects the fact the the evaluation corpuswas specifically chosen to include words with ?inter-esting?
ambiguities, which might include words whichare more difficult than average to disambiguate.
It ispossible that over the whole corpus, the method ac-tually works even better than on just the evaluationcorpus.This technique is quite groundbreaking, because itshows that a lexical resource derived almost entirelyfrom English data (MEDLINE indexing terms) couldsuccessfully be used for automatic disambiguation ina German corpus.
(The alignment of documents andtheir translations was not even considered for theseexperiments so the results do not depend at all onour having access to a parallel corpus.)
This is be-cause the UMLS relations are defined between con-cepts rather than between words.
Thus if we knowthat there is a relationship between two concepts, wecan use that relationship for disambiguation, even ifthe original evidence for this relationship was derivedfrom information in a different language from thelanguage of the document we are seeking to disam-biguate.
We are assigning the correct senses basednot upon how terms are related in language, but howmedical concepts are related to one another.It follows that this technique for disambiguationshould be applicable to any language which UMLScovers, and applicable at very little cost.
This pro-posal should stimulate further research, and not toofar behind, successful practical implementation.6 Summary and ConclusionWe have described three implementations of unsu-pervised word-sense disambiguation techniques formedical documents.
The bilingual method relies onthe availability of a translated parallel corpus: thecollocational and relational methods rely solely onthe structure of UMLS, and could therefore be ap-plied to new collections of medical documents with-out requiring any new resources.
The method ofdisambiguation using relations between terms givenby UMLS was by far the most successful method,achieving 74% precision, 66% coverage for EnglishENGLISH Related terms Related terms Coindexing terms CombinedRESULTS (MRREL) (MRCXT) (MRCOC) (majority voting)Prec.
Rec.
Cov.
Prec.
Rec.
Cov.
Prec.
Rec.
Cov.
Prec.
Rec.
Cov.Sentence 50 14 28 60 9 15 78 32 41 74 32 43Document 48 24 50 63 22 35 74 46 62 72 45 63Subdomain 51 33 65 64 38 59 74 49 66 71 49 69Table 4: Results for disambiguation based on UMLS relations (English)GERMAN Related terms Related terms Coindexing terms CombinedRESULTS (MRREL) (MRCXT) (MRCOC) (majority voting)Prec.
Rec.
Cov.
Prec.
Rec.
Cov.
Prec.
Rec.
Cov.
Prec.
Rec.
Cov.Sentence 64 24 38 75 11 15 76 29 38 77 31 40Document 68 43 63 75 27 36 79 52 66 79 53 67Subdomain 70 51 73 74 52 70 79 58 73 79 58 73Table 5: Results for disambiguation based on UMLS relations (German)and 79% precision, 73% coverage for German on theevaluation corpora, and achieving over 80% coverageoverall.
This result for German is particularly en-couraging, because is shows that a lexical resourcegiving relations between concepts in one languagecan be used for high quality disambiguation in an-other language.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported in part by the Re-search Collaboration between the NTT Communi-cation Science Laboratories, Nippon Telegraph andTelephone Corporation and CSLI, Stanford Univer-sity, and by EC/NSF grant IST-1999-11438 for theMUCHMORE project.We would like to thank the National Library ofMedicine for providing the UMLS, and in particularStuart Nelson for his advice and guidance.ReferencesP.
Brown, S. de la Pietra, V. de la Pietra, and R Mer-cer.
1991.
Word sense disambiguation using sta-tistical methods.
In ACL 29, pages 264?270.Paul Buitelaar and Bogdan Sacaleanu.
2001.
Rank-ing and selecting synsets by domain relevance.
InProceedings of WordNet and Other Lexical Re-sources, NAACL 2001 Workshop, Pittsburgh, PA,June.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: AnElectronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press, Cam-bridge MA.W.
Gale, K. Church, and D. Yarowsky.
1992.
Amethod for disambiguating word senses in a largecorpus.
Computers and the Humanities, 26:415?439.Nancy Ide and Jean Ve?ronis.
1998.
Introductionto the special issue on word sense disambiguation:The state of the art.
Computational Linguistics,24(1):1?40, March.Nancy Ide.
1999.
Parallel translations andsense discriminators.
In Proceedings of the ACLSIGLEX workshop on Standardizing Lexical Re-sources, pages 52?61.A.
Kilgarriff and J. Rosenzweig.
2000.
Frameworkand results for english senseval.
Computers andthe Humanities, 34(1-2):15?48, April.M.
E. Lesk.
1986.
Automated sense disambiguationusing machine-readable dictionaries: How to tell apine cone from an ice cream cone.
In Proceedingsof the SIGDOC conference.
ACM.S?pela Vintar, Paul Buitelaar, Ba?rbel Ripplinger,Bogdan Sacaleanu, Diana Raileanu, and DetlefPrescher.
2002.
An efficient and flexible formatfor linguistic and semantic annotation.
In ThirdInternational Language Resources and EvaluationConference, Las Palmas, Spain.Dominic Widdows, Diana Steffen, Scott Ceder-berg, Chiu-Ki Chan, Paul Buitelaar, and Bog-dan Sacaleanu.
2003.
Methods for word-sensedisambiguation.
Technical report, MUCHMOREproject report.David Yarowsky.
1993.
One sense per collocation.In ARPA Human Language Technology Workshop,pages 266?271, Princeton, NJ.David Yarowsky.
1995.
Unsupervised word sensedisambiguation rivaling supervised methods.
InProceedings of the 33rd Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, pages189?196.
