Geographic reference analysis for geographic document queryingFr?d?rik Bilhaut, Thierry Charnois, Patrice Enjalbert and Yann MathetGREYC, CNRS UMR 6072, Universit?
de CaenCampus 2, F-14032 Caen Cedex ?
FRANCE{fbilhaut,charnois,patrice,mathet}@info.unicaen.frAbstractThe work presented in this paper concerns In-formation Retrieval from geographical docu-ments, i.e.
documents with a major geographiccomponent.
The final aim, in response to aninformational query of the user, is to return aranked list of relevant passages in selected doc-uments, allowing text browsing within them.We consider in this paper the spatial componentof the texts and the queries.
The idea is to per-form an off-line linguistic analysis of the doc-ument, extracting spatial expressions (i.e.
ex-pressions denoting geographical localisations).The point is that such expressions are (in gen-eral) much more complex than simple placenames.
We present a linguistic analyser whichrecognises them, performing a semantic analy-sis and computing symbolic representations oftheir "content".
These representations, storedin the text thanks to XML annotation, will actas indexes of passages with which queries arecompared.
The matching of queries with textexpressions is a complex process, needing sev-eral kinds of numeric and symbolic computa-tions.
A prospective outline of it is described.1 Presentation of the GeoSem project.Passage extraction from geographicaldocumentThe work presented in this paper concerns InformationRetrieval (IR) from geographical documents, i.e.
docu-ments with a major geographic component.
Let?s preciseat once that we are mainly interested in human geogra-phy, where the phenomena under consideration are of so-cial or economic nature.
Such documents are massivelyproduced and consumed by academics as well as state or-ganisations, marketing services of private companies andso on.
The final aim is, in response to an informationalquery of the user, to return not only a set of documents(taken as wholes) from the available collection of docu-ments, but also a list of relevant passages allowing textbrowsing within them.Geographical information is spatialised information,information so to speak anchored in a geographical space.This characteristic is immediately visible on geographicaldocuments, which describe how some phenomena (oftenquantified, either in a numeric or qualitative manner) arerelated with a spatial and also, often, temporal localisa-tion.
Figure 1 gives an example of this informationalstructure, extracted from our favourite corpus (H?rin,1994), relative to the educational system in France.
Asa consequence a natural way to query documents will bethrough a 3-dimensional topic, Phenomenon-Space-Timeas shown in Figure 2.
The goal is to select passages thatfulfil the whole bunch of criteria and to return them to theuser in relevance order.The system we designed and currently develop for thatpurpose is divided in two tasks: an off-line one, devotedto linguistic analysis of the text, and an online one con-cerning querying itself.
Let?s give an overall view of theprocess, focusing on the spatial dimension of texts andanalysis.
Other aspects of the project, including espe-cially the analysis of expressions denoting phenomena,techniques used to link the three components of infor-mation (Space, Time, Phenomena) and implementationissues can be found in (Bilhaut, 2003).Concerning text analysis, the goal is to locate, extractand analyse the expressions which refer to some geo-graphical localisation 1 so that they act as indexes oftext passages.
The first remark to do is that we have tocope (in general) with complex nominal expressions, notonly named geographical entities, as exemplified in fig-ure 3.
Indeed the collection of (proper) place names can1Temporal expressions (expressing temporal localisation)are treated in a similar manner.De 1965 ?
1985, le nombre de lyc?ensa augment?
de 70%, mais selon des rythmeset avec des intensit?s diff?rents selon lesacad?mies et les d?partements.
Faible dansle Sud-Ouest et le Massif Central, mod?r?een Bretagne et ?
Paris, l?augmentation a ?t?consid?rable dans le Centre-Ouest, et en Al-sace.
[...] Intervient aussi l?allongement desscolarit?s, qui a ?t?
plus marqu?
dans les d?-partements o?, au milieu des ann?es 1960, lapoursuite des ?tudes apr?s l?
?cole primaire?tait loin d?
?tre la r?gle.From 1965 to 1985, the number of high-school students has increased by 70%, but atdifferent rythms and intensities depending onacademies and departments.
Lower in South-West and Massif Central, moderate in Brittanyand Paris, the rise has been considerable inMid-West and Alsace.
[...] Also occurs theschooling duration increase which was moreimportant in departments where, in the middleof the 60?s, study continuation after primaryschool was far from being systematic.Figure 1: Excerpt from (H?rin, 1994)not constitute an adequate index: a mention of "north ofParis" or "north of France" has obviously not the samemeaning as "Paris"or "France", not to speak of "south ofa Bordeaux-Gen?ve line".
Moreover, some expressions("industrial towns" or "rural departments?...
)2" involvea "qualitative" (demographic, sociological, economic...)characterisation of the selected areas, involving someknowledge of this kind.The conclusion is that a literal matching of "queries"against "text expressions" simply can?t do.
Expres-sions (and queries) must receive a linguistic analysis,discovering their structure and producing some kind ofsemantic representation.
This is the goal of the off-linetext processing step.
A linguistic analyser of spatialexpressions (nominal and prepositional phrases) havebeen designed, which recognise them and producesa symbolic representation of their "content".
Theserepresentations are associated with the text, thanks toXML annotation, and constitute the index with whichqueries will be compared.
The linguistic analysis isdescribed in section 2.Assuming that such an analysis is performed, we are2"departments" denotes in France administrative districts,roughly equivalent to "counties"Find the passages which concern:- Le retard scolaire dans l?Ouest de laFrance depuis les ann?es 1950.- Educational difficulties in West of Francesince the 50?s.- L?
?volution des effectifs dansl?enseignement secondaire ?
Paris / dansla r?gion parisienne.- Variations of the number of pupils in sec-ondary school in Paris / in Paris area- L?
?volution des effectifs scolaires dans lesr?gions rurales.- Variations of the number of pupils in ruralareas.- Les mutations du personnel enseignantdans les acad?mies du Sud.- Transfers of the teaching staff to southerndistricts.Figure 2: Typical queries on geographical documents.ready for querying.
Clearly the easier way for a user toformulate his/her query is to use also natural language.The first step will be to apply the same linguistic analy-sis, producing a symbolic representation of the same na-ture as what was extracted from text.
We have then toperform some matching between (the representations of)the query and the text.
This is not a trivial task, as thereader can guess, considering expressions and queries infigures 2 and 3.
To achieve this task, we will use ref-erential information associated with named geographicalentities (long-lat coordinates) together with some compu-tation exploiting the symbolic representations producedby the linguistic analysis.
A (prospective) sketch of thisprocess is described in section 3.Summing up to situate the project among current re-search, we see that the goals are those of Document Re-trieval, but at an intra-document level, selecting passages(Callan, 1994).
But the methods are rather (though notexclusively) those of Information Extraction in the senseof MUC?s (Pazienza, 1997) and we are quite close to An-swer Extraction in the sense of (Molla, 2000).
In partic-ular, the spatial component of geographical texts needsmuch more than an access to geographical resources asgazetteers: it needs both a specific semantic analysis ofcomplex linguistic expressions, and some symbolic andnumeric spatial computation for matching the query withtext.
Let?s now consider these two aspects in turn.QUANT : TYPE : ZONE: administrative : qualification : position : named geo.
entity(1) : : : : ?
Paris(2) : : : au nord de : la France(3) Quelques : villes : maritimes : :(4a) Le quart des : : : :(4b) Tous les : d?partements : : du nord de : la France(4c) Quelques : : : :(4d) Quinze : : : :(5) Quelques : villes : maritimes : : de la Normandie(6) Les : d?partements : les plus ruraux : situ?s au sud de : la Loire(1): in Paris(2): in north of France(3): some seaboard towns(4a/b/c/d): The quarter of / All / Some / Fifteen / districts of north of France(5) Some Seaboard towns of Normandy(6) The most rural districts situated from south of LoireTable 1: Structure of spatial expressions- Paris- Les villes industrielles d?
?le de France.- Industrial towns in ?le de France.- La moiti?
nord de la France.- The northern half of France.- Les d?partements ruraux du nord de laFrance.- Rural departments in the north of France.- Au sud d?une ligne Bordeaux-Gen?ve.- In the south of a Bordeaux-Gen?ve line.Figure 3: Typical spatial expressions2 Spatial analysis2.1 Description of spatial expressionsTable 1 shows a significant sample of spatial expres-sions found in our corpus.
It enlightens the two com-ponents which characterises their informational structure,[Type] and [Zone], Which can be altogether present ornot.
Hence three kinds of expressions can be considered:1.
Expressions in the first class contains only the[Zone] part and denotes a georeferenced area (ex-amples (1) and (2)).
They are anchored in anamed place (Caen, France, Normandy...), latercalled ?named geographical entity?
(egn), on top ofwhich some spatial, geometrical, operations can act(north/south of, the western/eastern part of, the sur-roundings of...).2.
The second type of expressions denote a set ofplaces and can be summarised by the canonicalform [QUANTIFICATION]+[TYPE]+[ZONE].
Theset is quantified by a determiner (all, some, the, mostof...).
The places are generally given an administra-tive type (town, region...), and are located in a zone.Sometimes, a further qualification, either sociolog-ical (rural, urbanised, more or less densely popu-lated, ...) or physical (near seaboard, mountainous,...) specifies the type.
We call this most generaltype of expressions ?LocGeo?
(geographical local-isations): examples (4a?d),(5),(6).3.
Finally, the form [QUANTIFICATION] + [TYPE]is a variant of the second form with a zone not ex-pressed but implicit (and dependent on the context).Note that this kind of expression is recognised byour analyser if the qualification field is present.
Thatmeans that expressions as ?the districts?
are not con-sidered as a geographical entity in opposite of ?themost rural districts?
which can be geographicallydetermined: example (3).Note that all components of the expression must betaken into account when the semantic representationis computed: not only the elements of geographicaltype but also the quantification, the qualification, thetype which are crucial for querying and matching therepresentation (see section 3).2.2 Semantic representationsThe semantics of expressions is represented by featurestructures as shown in figure 4.(1)????????
?zone :??????
?egn :[ty_zone : villenom : Paris]loc : internecoord :[lat : 45 .6333333long : 5.7333333]????????????????Paris(4b)???????
?quant :[type : exhaustif]type :[ty_zone : departement]zone :???
?egn :[ty_zone : paysnom : France]loc : interneposition : nord???????????
?Tous les d?partements du nord de la France(5)????????
?quant :[type : relatif]type :[ty_zone : villegeo : maritime]zone :??
?egn :[ty_zone : regionnom : Normandie]loc : interne???????????
?Quelques villes maritimes de la NormandieFigure 4: Spatial expressions accompanied by their se-mantic representationThe ?quant?
feature corresponds to the quantification[QUANT] part of expressions, expressed by generaliseddeterminers.
It will be used to associate some approxi-mate cardinality to the set of elements selected in the Loc-Geo, allowing to compute some ?relevance value?
withrespect to a given query (see section 3).
Four types ofquantification are distinguished:?
absolute: ?fifteen districts??
relative: ?32 per cent / half of the towns??
exhaustive: ?all?, ?the??
exhaustive-negative: ?no?, ?not any?The ?type?
field gives the qualitative characterisationof the selected places.
It can be administrative (ty_zone)and/or socio-economic (geo).Finally the ?zone?
feature gives an abstract descriptionof the geographical localisation.
It is defined by four pos-sible sub-features:?
?egn?
(named geographical entity) with the nameand type of this entity;?
the ?coord?
field gives the coordinates of the namedplace, when available.?
when expressed, the ?position?
describes the spatialoperator acting on the egn (for example a N-S-E-Worientation);?
this information is completed by the ?loc?
feature(localisation), which can take only two values, in-ternal or external, according to whether the geomet-rically selected area ?position?
criterium applies in-side or outside the zone: ?in the north of France?
isinternal to France, while ?
north of Paris?
is (proba-bly) external.It must be mentioned here that his last featureraises interesting and difficult semantical consider-ations and the implemented procedures yet subjectto strong limitations.
Notably, it is strictly local (itdoes not consider the context of the analysed ex-pression), while the localisation can be ambiguous:?north of Paris?
can also denote an internal (north-ern) part of Paris.
More generally, a precise study ofspatial prepositions remains to be done.The semantics of extracted phrases (represented asfeature structures) are exemplified in Fig.
4.
Example(4.b) stipulates an exhaustive determination selectingall entities of the given TYPE (departments) locatedin ZONE.
This zone matches with the northern halfinside the named geographic entity (France).
In (5) thedetermination (induced by "quelques / some") is relative,i.e.
only a part of the elements given by the type is tobe considered.
Here, TYPE stipulates that we only keepfrom ZONE (Northern Normandy) the "towns" whichare "seaboard".In fact, the structure (and semantics) of spatial expres-sions is significantly more complex allowing notably:?
some kind of recursivity as in: "les villes maritimesdes d?partements ruraux du nord de la France" (theseaboard towns of rural districts in north of France)where the LocGeo ?villes maritimes?
is embeddedinside the LocGeo ?d?partements ruraux du nord dela France?.?
Geometrically defined zones: "le triangle Avignon-Aix-Marseille" (the Avignon-Aix-Marseille trian-gle); and areas defined by some kind of bounds:"du Sud-Ouest ?
la Bourgogne" (from South-West toBurgundy).?
Enumerations of different kinds: "?
Paris, Lyon etMarseille" (in Paris, Lyon and Marseille), "dans lesd?partements de Bretagne et de Normandie" (in thedepartments of Brittany and Normandy), "dans laFrance du Centre et de l?Ouest" (in Center and Westof France), etc.Such enumerations are quite frequent in the corpus,and treated by the linguistic analyser.
In particularthe different entity types appearing in an enumer-ation are considered, and simultaneously the lexi-cal head of the phrase is correctly distributed overthe constituents of its expansion, as in: ?dans lesd?partements bretons et normands, ?
Paris, et dansles r?gions du sud et du sud-ouest?
where ?d?-partements?
is distributed over ?bretons?
and ?nor-mands?, and similarly ?r?gions?
over ?sud?
and?sud-ouest?.?
some anaphoric expressions not still treated (?ces r?-gions?, these regions).2.3 ImplementationThe whole process is implemented using the LinguaStream platform, designed for the project 3.
We assumea tokenisation and a morphological analysis of the text:presently we use Tree-Tagger (Schmid, 1994) which de-livers the lemma and part-of-speech (POS) categorisa-tion.
This is turned into a form acceptable by Prolog(list of terms) and a definite clause grammar (DCG) per-forms altogether syntactic and semantic analyses.
The se-mantic representations are synthesised in a compositionalprocess.
Prolog proves to be an interesting choice heresince it allows complex semantic computations to be in-tegrated in the grammar, and unification on feature struc-tures thanks to GULP (Covington, 1994).
Presently, thegrammar contains 160 rules and an internal lexical baseof about 200 entries, including grammatical words andadministrative or socio-economic terms.
A gazetteer of10000 named places located in France is used as externallexicon, providing administrative types and geographicalcoordinates4.2.4 Evaluation and resultsThe analyser was designed by observation of (H?rin,1994), and a qualitative evaluation on several other textsseems to indicate that we captured correctly the generalstructure of spatial expressions.
However a more pre-cise, quantitative, evaluation on a wide and diversifiedcorpus is still an open question, left for further work.Another important aspect concerns evaluation of the se-mantic analysers, esp.
the spatial one.
We have to com-pare the semantic structures computed by the system withexpected ones and hence to define a relevant and robustmeasure of adequation between complex feature struc-tures.3publicly available from the web site:http//users.info.unicaen.fr/ fbilhaut/linguastream.html4publicly available from the web site:http://www.nima.mil/gns/html/The whole process takes about 30?
on our favouritecorpus (H?rin, 1994) (200 text pages).
900 expressionsare recognised.
Though processing time is not so crucialfor off-line analysis, we also want to improve the sys-tem?s efficiency: working on the grammars and their im-plementation techniques (such as bottom-up parsing andcompilation of feature structures as described in (Cov-ington, 1994)),we hope to gain a factor 2 or 3.
Other,possibly more efficient, parsing methods could also beconsidered if necessary, provided a good integration inthe LinguaStream platform is preserved.3 Semantic matchingThe work presented now is mainly prospective.
As an-nounced in part I, once a user has entered a query, the sys-tem has to determine whether a given passage is relevantor not.
More precisely, we expect the system to deliver,rather than a yes/no value, a relevance degree, so that aranked list of passages (from best to least) would be re-turned to the user as an answer to his/her query.
This taskrequires to perform some matching between the semanticrepresentation of the request (calculated on-line) and theone of a given passage (precalculated, i.e.
off-line).
Fig-ure 5 shows a query (Q1) and six passage excerpts (fromP1 to P6) so that we have an overview of the problem :for each passage, is this passage relevant, how relevant isit, and according to what criteria ?Q1) Which passages address Paris ?P1) La capitale [...] - the capital (city).P2) Les villes de la Seine ?
l?exception deParis - Towns in the department of Seine, ParisexceptedP3) Les grandes villes fran?aises- Big cities inFrance.P4) La moiti?
nord de la France - The northernhalf of France.P5) Au sud d?une ligne Bordeaux-Gen?ve -South of a Bordeaux-Gen?ve line.P6) La plupart des villes d?Ile de France - Mostof towns in Ile de France.Figure 5: One query and six passage excerptsWe can split the process in two major steps.
First, acompatibility diagnosis is delivered.
In other words, itconsists in stating whether a passage could be relevantor not, relying on the fact that there is no geographic in-compatibility.
This step should obviously ban P2 and P5.Second, if a given passage is considered as "compatible",the system computes a relevance degree, i.e.
delivers avalue from zero (worst, shouldn?t happen if the first stepdoes its job) to one (best, you can?t find a more relevantpassage with respect to the query).
This step would de-liver a ranked list such as [P1, P3, P6, P4].
(The preciseorder is still a open question, since it is not obvious thatP3 should come before P6, for instance).Let?s go deeper in these two steps.3.1 Compatibility computationFrom examples in Figure 5. we can immedialtely seethat this task involves in the general case much morethan a simple word matching between the query andtext expressions.
Otherwise, the system would only beable to return passages which contain "Paris", namelyP4, which precisely should be banned as result of thenegation form (?Paris excepted?).
Let?s present whatkind of knowledge and algorithms the system can use toprocess query Q1 relatively to passages P1 to P6.P1: In the context this excerpt is taken from, we areconcerned with France.
A gazetteer or a GIS wouldclearly say that France?s capital is Paris.
Hence, theanswer is quite easy to get but, once more, doesn?t relyon direct word matching.P2: This excerpt has a two components structure,namely "les villes d?Ile de France" and "?
l?exception deParis".
The first one needs an answer to :- a "is type of X T?"
question, X being here Paris, and T"city", and- a "does X belongs to Y ?"
question, X still being Paris,and Y being a french department, la Seine.For both these questions, a gazetteer will do (and answerpositively).
The second component "?
l?exception deParis" states a restriction over the first requirementand, since "Paris" matches "Paris", P2 would finally bebanned.P3: Paris is a french city, as a gazetteer would say.
Butwe?re concerned here with more sofisticated semanticsas we have to interpret "big cities" (a piece of knowledgenot in the scope of a gazetteer).
Since qualifiers such as"big", "middle", "small" and so on, are relative to a set ofentities, we propose to generate off-line a resource suchas the rank of a X entity relatively to a criterium C amongall entities of a given type T. We can then interpret ?big?as ?to be in the upper 20%?, and so on with ?medium?or ?small?.
Note that french qualifier "grand" is quiteambiguous, (denoting population as well as surface), but"largest" clearly involves surface criterion.In the next two examples, we?ll have to go deeper ingeographic computation.
Indeed, we understand that P4is compatible with Q1, and that P5 isn?t, but how couldthe system know that ?
It has to compute it.
This requiresa kind of geometric compatibility between shapesassociated with the entities denoted by the request andtext expressions, in topological terms: does X cover (orintersect) Y ?
Contrary to examples P1 to P3, where thiscompatibility was de facto, embedded in gazetteer-likeknowledge, we have now to cope with complex anddynamic geographic compatibility that no gazetteer norGIS could directly deliver : "the northern half of France"nor "the south of a Bordeaux-Gen?ve line" couldn?t beindexed in a database.P4: "northern half of X" requires to cut the areaassociated with X in two, so as to keep only the partsituated above the middle line.
Here, X is France.
Arequest to a GIS gives the minimum and the maximumlongitude, so that we obtain the middle line, and finallythe shape as given in Figure 6.
Then, we look at thelong-latt coordinates of Paris, and conclude that Parismatches this passage.P5: For similar reasons, but with a more sophisticatedshape, we obtain a polygon as given in Figure 7.
And weconclude here with a no answer, since the coordinates ofParis locate it out of the polygon.Figure 6: The northern half of FranceWe now evoke briefly other problems which must befaced.
First, observe that there are some subtilties in thecompatibility relation, as illustrated in the following ex-ample.
How to interpret fluzzy relations like "north of X"or "south of X" ?
What part of the area associated with Xdo we have to keep ?
Further work must be done to makethe best choice between something like Figure 6 wherewe keep half of it, and another one where we would keepa smaller part, or for exemple a cone above X.
How tointerpret the french "nord de X" in terms of topological?in?
and ?out?
relations ?
"Le nord de Paris" is indeedambiguous and can mean "a certain part located in Paris,in the north of it" as well as "a certain region out of Paris,Figure 7: The south of a Bordeaux-Gen?ve linemore in the north?.
Another problem concerns the socio-economic qualification of geographical areas.
As alreadymentionned and shown in Table 1, such characterisationsappear in a significant way in the corpus, and should beintegrated in the matching process.
Clearly again, simpleword matching is not adequate and we must invoke somesemantic knowledge, formalised as a semantic net or thelike.3.2 Computing a relevance degreeAt this point, the system should be able to state if a givenpassage matches a query.
However, a major task still re-maining is to sort the passages from best to worst.
Thistask is quite difficult since it involves heterogenous data.3.2.1 QuantificationIf we consider examples envolving quantitification, suchas (4a)-(4d), we must admit that all entities which matchthe ZONE and TYPE need not to be relevant.
For exam-ple in (4c) ?some?
means that only a part of the set ofspecified departments is concerned, on contrary to (4b)where ?all?
is the determiner.
Which ones ?
the linguis-tic expression does not say.
Howeve we can compute aprobability for any of these entities to be concerned sothat we can propose the following ranked list: (4b), (4d),(4a), (4c) for a request concerning Calvados (departmentsituated in the north of France):(4a) The semantic of "the quarter" gives (no GIS needed)a wheight equals to 25%.
(4b) The semantic of "all" gives a wheight equal to100%.
(4c) The semantic of "some" indicates that few entitiesare concerned.
In this case, we stipulate a number of5 entities (that?s a heuristic).
This leads to a wheightequals to 5n , n being the number of districts includedin the zone.
A request to the GIS gives n = 52.Hence, the weight is 552 = 9.6%(4d) In the same way, we obtain here 1552 = 29%.Both linguistic knowledge (for semantic interpretationof the determiners) and geographical knowledge (for anevaluation of probability) will be needed in this process.3.2.2 GranularityWe adopted a liberal strategy, which selects all pas-sages compatible with the query.
The counterpart isclearly the risk of noisy answers.
The granularity cri-terion can provide a useful numeric evaluation of therelevance of an expression.
For example, consider thequery ?find passages concening the city of Caen?, withrespect to passages mentionning ?Caen?
itself, ?the Cal-vados?
(department to which Caen belongs), ?Basse-Normandie?
(Caen?s administrative Region), and finally?the northern half of France?.
For granularity reasons(left however for further consideration), it seems desir-able to presents the four passages in this order, from theclosest to the farthest level.3.2.3 NegationThe paradox is as follows : if we say A is true for allX but Y, we positively say that not A is true for Y. Com-ing back to P2, the fact that Paris is explicitely excludedfrom the set of towns is a very strong information, almostas strong as a positive mention.
We think this problemcan be managed thanks to some symetric, i.e.
negativerelevance value.
Hence P2 receives degree -1 with re-spect to query Q1.
The user can choose to visualize ornot passages with negative degrees among other answers.4 ConclusionThe work presented in this paper concerns passage ex-traction from geographical documents.
We focused onthe most characteristic aspect of the project, namelythe interpretation of the spatial component of texts andqueries.
We first described a linguistic analyser whichperforms a semantic analysis of expressions denoting ge-ographical localisations.
This analyser is operationnaland will in the future be developped and experimented,in order to cope with a greater variety of expression andcover large corpora.
Then we addressed the question ofthe actual querying of text.
We outlined a method formatching user requests with the computed representa-tions of spatial expressions.
We believe that some aspectsof this process can be readily implemented.
However italso raises some difficult questions, we plan to investigatein the next future.AcknowledgementsSpecial thanks to S?verine Beaudet for her decisive con-tribution in the development of the spatial analyser.ReferencesAndr?e Borillo, 1998, L?espace et son expression enfran?ais, Ophrys Press, Paris.Fr?d?rik Bilhaut, Thierry Charnois, Patrice Enjalbert,Yann Mathet, 2003, Passag extraction in geographi-cal documents, Proc.
Intelligent Information Systems2003, New Trends in Intelligent Information Process-ing ans Web Mining, Zakopane, Poland (to appear).James P. Callan, 1994, Passage-Level Evidence in Docu-ment Retrieval, Proc.
7th Ann.
Int.
ACM SIGIR Con-ference on Research and Development in InformationRetrieval, Dublin, Ireland.Michael A. Covington, 1994, GULP 3.1: An Extentionof Prolog for Unification-Based Grammar, ResearchReport, AI.Robert H?rin, R?mi Rouault, 1994, Atlas de la FranceScolaire de la Maternelle au Lyc?e, RECLUS - LaDocumentation Fran?aise, Dynamiques du Territoire,14.Diego Molla, Rolf Schwitter, Michael Hess, RachelFournier, 2000, Extrans, an Answer Extraction System,Traitement Automatique des Langues, Hermes SciencePublication, 41-2, 495-522.Maria Teresa Pazienza (Ed.
), 1997, Information Extrac-tion, Springer Verlag.Helmut Schmid, 1994, Probabilistic Part-of-Speech Tag-ging Using Decision Trees, Intl.
Conference on NewMethods in Language Processing.
Manchester, UK.
