Is there a way to represent metaphors in WordNets?Insights from the Hamburg Metaphor DatabaseBirte Lo?nnekerInstitute for Romance LanguagesUniversity of HamburgD-20146 Hamburg, Germanybirte.loenneker@uni-hamburg.deAbstractThis paper addresses the question whethermetaphors can be represented in Word-Nets.
For this purpose, domain-centereddata is collected from the HamburgMetaphor Database, an online source cre-ated for the study of possible metaphorrepresentations in WordNets.
Based onthe results of the analyses of French andGerman corpus data and EuroWordNet,the implementation problem is discussed.It can be shown that a much more com-plete representation of synsets and rela-tions between synsets in the source do-main as well as a clearer indication ofthe level of figurativity for individualsynsets are needed before global concep-tual metaphors can be dealt with in Word-Nets.1 IntroductionBased on corpus analyses of the Italian lexemescolpire and colpo (Alonge and Castelli, 2002a)and arrivare and separarsi (Alonge and Castelli,2002b), Alonge and Castelli note that some impor-tant metaphorical senses of these lexemes are notcovered by ItalWordNet, a further development ofthe Italian part of the lexical database EuroWordNet(EWN) (Vossen, 1999).
They claim that metaphori-cal data should be added to WordNets on two differ-ent levels, or in two different ways:1.
Missing figurative senses, which turn out fromthe corpus analyses, can be added directly asnew synsets (sets of semantically equivalentwords, cf.
Vossen (1999, 18)).2.
?Pre-existent knowledge which constrains ourpossibility to produce and/or understand novelmetaphoric expressions?
(Alonge and Castelli,2002b, 1951) should be encoded at a higherlevel, because this knowledge concerns notonly single synsets, but whole conceptual do-mains.Alonge and Castelli work in the frame-work of conceptual metaphors introduced byLakoff and Johnson (1980).
They think that themost appropriate level for representing conceptualknowledge which underlies systematic metaphorsis a level similar to the Inter-Lingual-Index (ILI) inEuroWordNet (EWN).
This index is an unstructuredfund of concepts providing the mapping acrosslanguages (cf.
Vossen (1999, 39)).
A special caseof an ILI entry is a so-called composite ILI-record,by which regular polysemy can be covered (cf.Vossen (1999, 40?43)).
For example, the fact thatthe lexeme university can refer to a building as wellas to an organization is represented by a compositeILI, and this polysemy extends to all other lexemes(?literals?
in EWN terminology) which are membersof the respective synsets.
During the constructionof EWN, language-independent composite ILIswere used, and overgenerated polysemic relationshad to be deleted for each individual language.
Inorder to reduce such overgeneration, Alonge andCastelli propose to add composite indexes similarto composite ILIs to each individual WordNetinstead of defining general ILIs for WordNets in alllanguages, and to use this composite index also forrepresenting regular polysemy caused by conceptualmetaphors (cf.
Alonge and Castelli (2002b, 1952)).In this paper, we present some broader anal-yses using the current online data of the Ham-burg Metaphor Database1 described in (Eilts andLo?nneker, 2002).
The Hamburg Metaphor Database(HMD) contains corpus examples in French andGerman as well as synsets from EWN to whichthe metaphorically used lexemes belong, and labelsfor source and target domains of the metaphors intwo different naming systems.
EWN synsets aresplit into two groups in HMD: Those that alreadyhave a figurative meaning in the respective WordNet(French or German EWN), and those that containthe metaphorically used lexeme in its literal mean-ing.
Query parameters include the synsets and theannotated source and target domains of the metaphoras well as the language of the corpus example.
Theaim of HMD is to study the possibility of system-atically representing information on metaphors andpotential metaphorical mappings in WordNets (cf.Eilts and Lo?nneker (2002, 100?101)).Taking advantage of the domain based view ofHMD data, we focus on two domains represented inthe database, POLITICS and SPORTS (Section 2).Based on the results of the analyses, we discussthe implementation issue in more depth (Section 3).Section 4 is the conclusion.2 Insights from the Hamburg MetaphorDatabaseThis section contains analyses of material gatheredfrom the Hamburg Metaphor Database.
Subsec-tion 2.1 presents some main metaphorical mappinglines in the field of POLITICS, Subsection 2.2 anal-yses a conceptual metaphor for the target domainSPORTS.2.1 Mappings in the POLITICS domainThe data for the analyses are defined by those en-tries in the Hamburg Metaphor Database that haveas their target domain 1.
POLITIK (POLITICS) and2.
PARTEI (POLITICAL PARTY).
The first queryyields 25 results, the second one 26.1http://www.rrz.uni-hamburg.de/metaphern/index en.html[27 April 2003].POLITICS IS FIGHT.
Having a closer look atthe source domains for the target domain POLI-TICS, we find that the main source is the FIGHTdomain (?KAMPF?
), which is encoded in 20 out ofthe 25 entries.2 In what follows, we will concentrateon the 16 examples in French language that instanti-ate the POLITICS IS FIGHT conceptual metaphor.Considering the synset level, we note that somesynsets are represented by more than one of theirlexemes (?literals?)
in the corpus text: These arecombat:2 bagar[r]e:1 bataille:4 lutte:1 ?the act offighting; any contest or struggle?
?
represented bybataille, combat and lutte in political context ?,triomphe:1 victoire:1 ?a successful ending of acontest?
?
represented by both triomphe and vic-toire ?
and vainqueur:1 triomphateur:1 gagnant:1?the contestant who wins the contest?
?
representedby triomphateur and vainqueur ?.3 This fact showsthat the conceptual view, which is reflected bythe synsets insofar as every synset can be seen asa concept, is an appropriate way of approachingmetaphorical mappings.In contrast to the results of Alonge and Castelli,who find a lot of missing metaphorical senses inItalWordNet (cf.
Section 1), most of the metaphori-cally used lexemes in POLITICS IS FIGHT as col-lected from HMD are actually represented in synsetswhich already have a metaphorical sense in EWN, orat least have been interpreted as such by HMD en-coders.
Only three lexemes out of 13, guerre ?war?,revanche ?revenge?, and bataillon ?battalion?, do notcorrespond to figurative synsets.
While guerre andbataillon can be found in their ?literal?
meaningin the French EWN (cf.
synsets guerre:1 ?thewaging of an armed conflict against an enemy?
andrevanche:1 ?the act of taking revenge?
), batail-lon, a collective participant of FIGHT, is completelymissing from the French EWN.The conceptual metaphor POLITICS IS FIGHTis only one of several possible metaphorical con-2In terms of the Berkeley metaphor list (Lakoff et al, 1991),this mapping can be seen either as THEORETICAL DEBATEIS COMPETITION or as COMPETITION IS FIGHT.
If aMENTAL EVENT (like THEORETICAL DEBATE) is a spe-cialisation of an EVENT (like COMPETITION), then the firstmetaphor can be interpreted as a specialisation of the secondone.3In this paper, each synset is followed by its English glosswhen it is mentioned for the first time.ceptualisations of POLITICS.
Examples of othersource domains encoded for this target in HMDare SPORTS, THEATER, and STUDY.
The POL-ITICS IS FIGHT metaphor will thus highlight thecompetitive aspects of politics: POLITICS in thismetaphor is narrowed down to POLITICAL COM-PETITION.
This COMPETING scene has physi-cal aspects or at least physical ?roots?
and is anexample of a conventional metaphor, ?a metaphorwe are hardly ever conscious of?, because it is oneof the ordinary ways of talking about politics (cf.Lakoff and Johnson (1980, 5)).
The metaphoricallyused lexemes of the HMD example sentences andtheir EWN synsets show that several elements of aFIGHT scene, as well as the name of the event itself,are present in the mapping: Names for the whole event are combat:2bagar[r]e:1 bataille:4 lutte:1 and guerre:1. Names for events or scenes seen fromthe perspective of one of the participantsare de?fendre:3 lutter pour:2 ?
[argue indefense] of causes, principles, or ideas?,e?craser:3 ?make ineffective?, perte:7?the act of losing?, triomphe:1 victoire:1and revanche:1.
With the exception ofde?fendre:3 lutter pour:2, which can be usedto refer to the whole action, cause or purposeof a FIGHT as well as of POLITICS, all theevents denoted by these synsets occur only atcertain moments of the FIGHT, or of a specificpolitical action. Finally, the metaphorical synset vainqueur:1triomphateur:1 gagnant:1 is used to refer toone of the participants in the POLITICALCOMPETITION, with respect to its outcome.It turns out from this analysis that meronymyand participant (EWN: ?INVOLVED?)
relationsalso play a role in the mapping of this conceptualmetaphor.
Unfortunately, the synsets guerre:1 andcombat:2 bagar[r]e:1 bataille:4 lutte:1, which rep-resent the concepts of the whole competing event,and the other involved synsets, do not display manyof these relations in the French EWN.
ConsultingEWN, we find only the following non-taxonomic re-lations (i.e.
neither hyperonymic nor hyponymic re-lations) for all the synsets mentioned above as refer-ring to mapped aspects of the event: guerre:1 has mero part bataille:2 con-frontation:1 conflit:1 lutte:5 combat:1 ?an en-gagement fought between two military forces? combat:2 bagar[r]e:1 bataille:4 lutte:1has mero part coup:3 ?a powerful strokewith the fist or weapon? vainqueur:1 triomphateur:1 gagnant:1antonym perdant:2 non-valeur:1 ?a contes-tant who loses the contest? triomphe:1 victoire:1 antonym de?faite:2?an unsuccessful ending?The stated subevents in this list are not bound tothe overall event, and no participant relations are en-coded for any event or subevent in EWN.
This lackin relations means that the structure of the sourcedomain is not visible from EuroWordNet.Figure 1: Literal and possibly figurative synsets.action:4 acte:6action de groupe:1collision:2 bataille:1 lutte:2?an open clash between twoopposing groups?combat:2 bagar[r]e:1bataille:4 lutte:1 [F?
]?the act of fighting;any contest or struggle?coup:3 [L]?
a powerful stroke withthe fist or weapon?has_mero_partguerre:1 [L]?the waging ofan armed conflict ...?has_holo_parthas_holo_partaction militaire:1 action:8 [L]?a military engagement?lutte:3 bataille:3 [L]?a hostile meetingof opposingmilitary forces...?combat:1 lutte:5conflit:1confrontation:1bataille:2 [L]?an engagement foughtbetween military forces?
[L] literal[F] figurativehas_hyponymFurthermore, it is sometimes difficult to tellwhether a synset has an intended figurative mean-ing or not, let alne which synsets are re-lated by a literal-figurative relation.
Considerthe conceptual-semantic relations of the synsetsbataille:2 confrontation:1 conflit:1 lutte:5 com-bat:1 and combat:2 bagar[r]e:1 bataille:4 lutte:1as represented in EWN, displayed in Figure 1.
Fortwo reasons, it is sensible to believe that the secondone has a figurative meaning, as opposed to the firstone:1.
combat:2 bagar[r]e:1 bataille:4 lutte:1 is de-fined as ?[.
.
.
]; any contest or strugggle?, whichmight also refer to non-military and possiblynon-physical violence.2.
There are no other synsets containing the lex-emes bataille and lutte for which a figurativereading in the ?conflict?
sense would be possi-ble.On the other hand, the gloss of the synsetcoup:3 ?a powerful stroke with the fist or weapon?,which is encoded to be a part of combat:2bagar[r]e:1 bataille:4 lutte:1, gives a clearly literalmeaning to coup:3, which results in an incon-sistency between the possibly metaphorical senseof the holonym and the strictly literal sense of themeronym (part).A POLITICAL PARTY IS A FAMILY.
Anotherconceptual metaphor that turns out to be frequent inthe politics domain, at least in German texts, is theone in which a POLITICAL PARTY (?PARTEI?)
isviewed in terms of a FAMILY (?FAMILIE?
).4 Thisconceptual metaphor is mainly a mapping of one so-cial group to another (cf.
Eilts and Lo?nneker (2002,107)).
A query for these source and target domainsyields 20 results for German, which will be the sub-ject of the following analysis.A closer look at the synsets shows a slightly dif-ferent picture from what we obtained in the last anal-ysis.
19 distinct lexemes are used, but only five ofthem are present in German EWN synsets.
Theserefer mainly to individual family members: Vater?father?, Bruder ?brother?, Schwester ?sister?, Enkel?grandchild?, out of which only Vater can be foundin a figurative synset (Vater:2 ?a person who holdsan important or distinguished position in some orga-nization [.
.
.
]?
).The low coverage of the lexemes is also dueto the current practice in HMD not to encodeparts of compounds as individual lexemes (cf.Eilts and Lo?nneker (2002, 107)).
In doing so, thefollowing additional family member lexemes cov-ered by the German EWN would appear: Mut-ter ?mother?
(cf.
Mutterpartei), Vetter ?cousin?
(cf.Vetternwirtschaft), and three further occurrences of4A different conceptual source domain for POLITICALPARTY attested in HMD is BUILDING.Vater (cf.
Vaterfigur, Vatermord, ?Ubervater).
Themost direct mapping of the metaphor is indeed rep-resented in the lexeme Parteifamilie ?family of apolitical party?, which summarises the whole con-ceptual metaphor in one word.
While it would beinteresting to further discuss the topic of Germancompounds, for the sake of brevity we will go onto other aspects of the conceptual metaphor that areconcerned by the mapping.In addition to a neutral reference to individualfamily members, two other referring methods can bedetected from the metaphorically used lexemes notencoded in the German EWN:1. collective nouns for younger members of thefamily: Nachwuchs ?offspring?
(in the com-pounds Nachwuchskraft, Nachwuchspolitikerand Parteinachwuchs);2. subconcepts or referring expressions encom-passing specific role/character attributions:Ziehkind ?foster child?
and Patriarch ?patri-arch?.In the German EWN, family member synsets arenot linked to the family synset (Familie:1) itself.It seems that with a few synset additions to theGerman EWN, compound splitting, and the con-nection of the family members to the family synsetusing the has holo member relation, the mappingof this conceptual metaphor could be implementedmore easily than the one previously discussed.
How-ever, as further elements in the mapping show, alsothis social group metaphor can be extended to anevent metaphor.
The lexemes Erbe (covered by theGerman EWN as Erbe:1 ?any acquisition frompast generations?, represented also in the compoundErblast) and Hinterlassenschaft, which could beadded to the Erbe:1 synset5 but has also othersenses, actually denote ?participants?
in the seman-tic patient role of an event.
The ?inheritage?
(in formof qualities, power and achievements, but also neg-ative characteristics and problems) is handed overfrom one member of the political party, usuallymapped to the father of the family, to other mem-bers, preferably younger or less experienced ones.5Cf.
the corresponding verb synset in the German EWN:vererben:1 hinterlassen:1.Only this inheriting event conveys also meaning tothe position of these members in the political party.2.2 Mappings in the SPORTS domainSPORTS IS FIGHT.
Turning to the field ofsports, we query the Hamburg Metaphor Databasefor all French examples of the target domainSPORTS (?SPORT?).
In the 34 results, the list ofsource domains shows that FIGHTING (?KAMPF?,16 times), also in its special form of WAR(?KRIEG?, 8 times), is the predominant sourcemetaphorically used to view this target domain.6The following analysis will be based on the24 French examples instantiating either the con-ceptual metaphor SPORTS IS FIGHT (?SPORTIST KAMPF?)
or SPORT IS WAR (?SPORT ISTKRIEG?).
21 distinct lexemes occur in the exam-ples; only two of them are not represented in anysynset in the French EWN, the others instantiate 6distinct synsets with literal meaning and 13 distinctsynsets with figurative meaning, following the inter-pretation of HMD.Even more clearly than in the POLITICS ISFIGHT conceptual metaphor, the resulting synsetsshow that not only the event itself, but severalaspects of the FIGHT event are mapped acrossdomains in the SPORTS IS FIGHT (containingSPORTS IS WAR) metaphor.
The examples anal-ysed are from a football corpus and can be narroweddown to A MATCH (as a sports event) IS A FIGHT.The mapped aspects of the event are enumerated inthe list below.
If a synset is contained in the FrenchEWN only in a literal meaning, we indicate this bythe addition of [L].
Note that events and subeventscan equally be expressed by verb or noun synsets.1.
There are synsets referring to the entireFIGHT event matched to the SPORTS event:combat:2 bagar[r]e:1 bataille:4 lutte:1,lutter:4 se battre:4 ?be engaged in a fight;carry on a fight?
[L], guerre:1 [L].2.
Actions of a participant or several participantscollectively are represented by e?craser:36The main mapping lines in Berkeley terms are again COM-PETITION IS FIGHT (17 times; also as COMPETITION ISPHYSICAL AGGRESSION (2 times), cf.
?COMPETITION IS1 ON 1 PHYSICAL AGGRESSION, Source domains: 1-on-1physical aggression, fight.
Target domain: competition?
(Lakoffet al, 1991, 66)) and COMPETITION IS WAR (8 times).
?make ineffective?, de?fier:1 provoquer:1?Fischer challenged Spassky to a match?,manoeuvre:1 ?a move made to gain a tacticalend?, armer:2 consolider:3 renforcer:1 ?sup-port or hold steady, as if with a brace?.3.
Singular actions occurring during the event,in which a ?hostile action?
is performed notagainst a person, but against an object (here:the ball), are represented in coup:5 ?the act ofswinging or striking at a ball [.
.
.
]?, frapper:7?hit a ball?.4.
The result of the event or of a subevent seenfrom a participant-dependent view is present intriomphe:1 victoire:1 and conque?te:2 ?theact of conquering?
[L].5.
The participants of the event can be identi-fied by the synsets adversaire:2 opposant:1partie adverse:1 ?a hostile person who triesto do damage to you?, opposant:2 adver-saire:1 ennemi:3 ?a contestant that you arematched against?
and agresseur:1 attaquant:1?person who attacks someone?
[L].
For someof the participants, collective nouns are used:de?fense:10 ?the defensive football play-ers [.
.
.
]?6.
Finally, the instrument can be mapped:arme:1 ?weaponry used in fighting or hunt-ing?
[L] (here used to refer to one of the footballplayers and his special qualities).In some examples, a quite radical type switchingoccurs.
Actions performed by at least one person,as subevents of the sports event (match), are rep-resented in EWN only in synsets denoting the par-ticipants performing these actions: attaque:6 ?theteam that has the ball (or puck) and is trying to score?
(here in e?tre a` l?attaque), de?fense:3 ?the team thatis trying to prevent the other team from scoring?
(here in faire une grosse de?fense).
A place involvedin the source domain, camp:4 bivouac:1 ?tempo-rary living quarters, specially built by the army forsoldiers?, is used to refer to the players of a team andonly attested by camp in the corpus.The uncovered lexemes instantiate still other as-pects of the event.
Duel ?duel?
refers to a part ofthe event from a participant-independent view, whilethe remaining lexeme, offensif ?aggressive?, charac-terises one of the participants or his actions.
Again,with the exception of some antonymy encodings,there are no relations in EWN binding any of theseelements together.3 Implementation issuesBased on the results of the analyses in Sec-tion 2, the idea of a composite index for regularmetaphorical mappings which was broughtforward by Alonge and Castelli (2002a) andAlonge and Castelli (2002b) will be discussed.
Anecessary continuation of the work by Alonge andCastelli, who do not deal with implementationdetails, is to discuss this issue in more depth.Alonge and Castelli propose to deal withmetaphorical mappings using a kind of compositeindex.
This sort of index has already been in usein form of a composite Inter-Lingual-Index duringthe construction of EWN and accounted for regu-lar metonymic polysemy (cf.
Section 1).
Figure 2shows an example of an existing composite ILI fromEWN.
It indicates that there is a metonymic poly-semy of the lexeme country, which has three senses(cf.
?gloss?):1.
territory which has been singled out for somepurpose;2. the people of a nation or country or a commu-nity of persons bound by a common heritage;3. the people, government and territory of a state.The effect of the composite ILI is that each synsetidentified by one of the three target ILIs contains aneq metonym relation to the composite ILI, and thisin all languages involved in EWN.
By accessing thisrelation from one of the individual synsets, the usercan thus see which synsets are bound together by themetonymic relation.
However, considering figura-tivity aspects, there is no rule defining which synsetshould be the literal one, and this information cannotbe obtained accessing the synsets.Let us consider an encoding of the conceptualmetaphor POLITICS IS FIGHT in such a compos-ite index.
As we have seen, all encoded aspects ofthis metaphor are in some way related to an over-all event.
One of the most general source eventsFigure 2: A composite EuroWordNet ILI.0 ILI_RECORD1 PART_OF_SPEECH "n"1 ADD_ON_ID 301 GLOSS "territory which has been singled out for some purpose""the people of a nation or country or a community of personsbound by a common heritage""the people, government and territory of a state"1 VARIANTS2 LITERAL "country"3 SENSE 12 LITERAL "country"3 SENSE 22 LITERAL "country"3 SENSE 31 EQ_RELATION "eq_metonym"2 TARGET_ILI3 WORDNET_OFFSET 5400698[={country:1 state:1 land:3 nation:1}]3 WORDNET_OFFSET 5208026[={nation:2 nationality:1 land:2 country:2 a people:1}]3 WORDNET_OFFSET 5209013[={state:1 nation:1 country:1 commonwealth:1 res publica:1body politic:1}]Figure 3: Metaphorical composite index entries.[...
]1 GLOSS "an armed conflict against an enemy"a political conflict"1 VARIANTS2 LITERAL "guerre"3 SENSE 12 LITERAL "guerre"3 SENSE 21 EQ_RELATION "eq_metaphor"2 TARGET_ILI3 WORDNET_OFFSET 540597[={guerre:1}]3 WORDNET_OFFSET ToBeCreated[...]1 GLOSS "an engagement fought between two military forces""the act of fighting; any contest or struggle"1 VARIANTS2 LITERAL "lutte"3 SENSE 52 LITERAL "lutte"3 SENSE 11 EQ_RELATION "eq_metaphor"2 TARGET_ILI3 WORDNET_OFFSET 535646[={bataille:2 confrontation:1 conflit:1 lutte:5 combat:1}]3 WORDNET_OFFSET 645833[={lutte:1 bataille:4 bagar[r]e:1 combat:2}]can be referred to by the French literal guerre ?war?.In a composite index for the conceptual metaphorA POLITICAL CONFLICT IS A WAR it could bestated that guerre means ?an armed conflict againstan enemy?, but also (figuratively) ?a political con-flict?.
The figurative synset does not yet exist inEWN, so it should be created.
A similar compositeindex could be used to bind together already existingdifferent senses of lutte ?fight?.
The respective partsof the composite index entries are shown in Figure 3.This representation would ensure eq metaphorlinks from all included synsets to the compositeindex entry.
Though, it would still not be clearwhich synset bears the literal meaning.
As therecould be several figurative meanings derived fromthe same literal synset (for example, a figurativemeaning of guerre ?a sports event?
could be added),the index would not solve the problem of tellingwhether a literal-figurative relation exists betweengiven synsets, and even whether a synset has a fig-urative meaning or not.
A convention could be es-tablished that the first synset mentioned in the com-posite index entry has to be the literal one.
How-ever, if the composite index exists for each languageseparately, as it might be requested because of dif-ferent use of conceptual metaphors in different lan-guages, and if it covers only the existing literal andmetaphorical synsets, there seems to be no need toencode the literal-figurative relation at a higher levelthan the synset itself.
A new conceptual-semanticrelation like derived from literal could be used aswell, and would keep track of the direction of themapping.Alonge and Castelli (2002b) note that a compos-ite index for metaphors could account for more thanone mapping and mention as an example the reg-ular polysemy of motion verbs which can be usedto metaphorically refer to stages in a love relation-ship.
As a result of the analyses performed on datafrom the Hamburg Metaphor Database and the im-plementation possibilities presented above, it turnsout that indeed a composite index can only be usefulif it accounts for several, and ideally for all map-pings which occur within one encompassing con-ceptual metaphor.
Only a generalisation from oneindex entry to all synsets related to the source synsetwill be able to cover also novel metaphorical uses ofwords within existing conceptual metaphors.As we have seen from the analyses, in mostcases the most general mapping of the conceptualmetaphor links a source event to a target event.
Thismapping is the one that will have to be manually en-coded after analyses of texts dealing with differenttopics.
However, for the mapping of all other as-pects, metaphorical relations could be supposed and?
in an automated or assisted way ?
added to theindex.
The fact of linking an entity to another by ametaphorical index should then result in the creationof corresponding synsets in the target domain for allentities (hyponyms, parts, participants, etc.)
that arerelated to the source entity by sense relations.
Theeasiest way to create such a (potential) metaphoricalsynset would be to copy the lexemes of the literalsynset and to add a predefined gloss.For example, if a metaphorical relation is in-stalled between guerre:1 and the newly createdguerre:2, metaphorical synsets and relations forall its hyponyms, parts, subevents, participants etc.,as mentioned in the analyses, should also be cre-ated.
Standard glosses with variables for the dif-ferent mapped events and elements would adapt tothese new synsets.
For example, in the glossa [e?tre:1 mortel:1 mortel:1 homme:7] that par-ticipates in a [POLITICAL COMPETITION] andcan be compared to a [vainqueur:1 triomphateur:1gagnant:1] that participates in a[n] [ARMEDCONFLICT]the event names are taken from the glosses of tar-get and source event respectively, and the participantdescription (its topmost hyperonym as well as itssource name) from the source synset.
For more de-tails on WordNet glosses, cf.
Pala and Smrz (2002).This method of adding a composite index forglobal conceptual metaphors has its limits for dif-ferent reasons: First of all, the status of the French and GermanEWN do not allow such a mapping, becausethey encode only very few non-taxonomic re-lations.
Some examples from the analyses evenshow that the set of encodable relations fromEWN would not be sufficient to cover the struc-ture of all domains.
Analyses of source do-mains in the framework of semantic frames(Fillmore and Atkins, 1994)7 or concept frames(Lo?nneker, 2002) can help identifying neededconceptual-semantic relationships and instanti-ations of them. A lot of figurative synsets are already presentin EWN and often differ slightly from the lit-eral synsets in their lexemes, so that many du-plicates would be created. Automatically created index entries would con-tain no information about whether an individualmapping is actually attested or not.7Cf.
also the FrameNet Database:http://framenet.icsi.berkeley.edu [27 April 2003].These considerations show that there is still a lotof work to do before a representation of whole struc-tures of conceptual metaphors can be envisaged.Based on detailed analyses of corpora from differ-ent domains, the coverage of source domains bothin synsets and in relations has to be improved, andthe status of individual synsets regarding their levelof figurativity has to be clarified.
It can be hopedthat new tools like VisDic (Pavelek and Pala, 2002;Horak et al, 2003) and DEB (Smrz?
and Povolny?,2003) for editing lexical databases will enable theintegration of independent further developments ofEWN (for example GermaNet) with EWN data andthe creation of new relationships.4 ConclusionThe answer to the question whether metaphors canbe represented in WordNets depends on the interpre-tation of metaphor.With respect to EuroWordNet, if individual lex-emes with metaphorical meaning are considered, itcan be stated that a lot of them are already repre-sented by synsets that can or must be used figura-tively.
What is missing are relations between literaland figurative individual synsets.If a metaphor is considered as a structured map-ping of one conceptual domain to another, the pro-ductivity of the envisaged index, as well as its poten-tial to account for new metaphorical word senses,increases drastically.
Unfortunately, so does alsothe complexity of the implementation task, for ex-ample by means of a composite metaphorical in-dex.
The analyses of two different target domains,POLITICS and SPORTS, show that at first a muchmore encompassing representation of the source do-mains, mainly events and their characteristics likeparts, participants, actions and characteristics of theparticipants, is necessary in order to represent thedomain structure.
This can be achieved by encodingmore instances of EWN relations like Meronymyand ROLE/INVOLVED, as well as possibly addi-tional relations.For the time being, continuing the domain cen-tered perspective adopted by the Hamburg MetaphorDatabase, the following research lines seem the mostpromising:1.
More clearly identify literal and figurativesynsets in the mapped domains, and their link-ing relation.2.
Individuate elements in source domains and theconceptual-semantic relations between them.AcknowledgementsI am grateful to Carina Eilts from the HamburgMetaphor Database for her great help.
My thanksalso go to Toma?s?
Pavelek, Pavel Smrz?
and theanonymous reviewers for their comments.ReferencesAntonietta Alonge and Margherita Castelli.
2002a.Metaphoric expressions: an analysis of data from acorpus and the ItalWordNet database.
In Proceedingsof the First Global WordNet Conference, pages 342?350, Mysore, India.Antonietta Alonge and Margherita Castelli.
2002b.Which way should we go?
Metaphoric expressionsin lexical resources.
In Proceedings of the third Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation Conference (LREC-02), volume VI, pages 1948?1952, Las Palmas, GranCanaria.Carina Eilts and Birte Lo?nneker.
2002.
The HamburgMetaphor Database.
metaphorik.de, 03:100?110.Charles J. Fillmore and B. T. Sue Atkins.
1994.
Startingwhere the dictionaries stop: The challenge of corpuslexicography.
In B. T. Sue Atkins and Antonio Zam-polli, editors, Computational Approaches to the Lexi-con, pages 349?393.
Oxford University Press, Oxford.Ales Horak, Karel Pala, and Pavel Smrz.
2003.
Lexicalsemantic networks and ontologies in XML, their view-ing and authoring.
To appear in Proceedings of theWorkshop on WWW Based Communities For Knowl-edge Presentation, Sharing, Mining and Protection -PSMP 2003, within CIC 2003 (International Confer-ence on Communications in Computing), Las Vegas,Nevada, USA.George Lakoff and Mark Johnson.
1980.
Metaphors welive by.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago/London.George Lakoff, Jane Espenson, and Alan Schwartz.1991.
Master metaphor list, Second draft copy.http://cogsci.berkeley.edu [27 April 2003].Birte Lo?nneker.
2002.
Building concept frames basedon text corpora.
In Proceedings of the 3rd Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources and Evalu-ation (LREC-02), volume I, pages 216?223, Las Pal-mas, Gran Canaria, Spain.Karel Pala and Pavel Smrz.
2002.
Glosses in WordNet1.5 and their standardization/consistency.
In Proceed-ings of the LREC Workshop on WordNet Structures andStandardisation, and How These Affect WordNet Ap-plications and Evaluation, pages 20?23, Las Palmas,Gran Canaria.Tomas Pavelek and Karel Pala.
2002.
WordNet stan-dardization from a practical point of view.
In Proceed-ings of the LREC Workshop on WordNet Structures andStandardisation, and How These Affect WordNet Ap-plications and Evaluation, pages 30?34, Las Palmas,Gran Canaria.Pavel Smrz?
and Martin Povolny?.
2003.
DEB ?
Dic-tionary Editing and Browsing.
In Proceedings of theEACL-03 Workshop on Language Technology and theSemantic Web: The 3rd Workshop on NLP and XML(NLPXML-2003), pages 49?55, Budapest, Hungary.Piek Vossen.
1999.
EuroWordNet general doc-ument Version 3, Final.
http://www.illc.uva.nl/EuroWordNet/docs.html [27 April 2003].
