Morpho-syntactic Clues for Terminological Processing in SerbianGoran Nenadi?Department of ComputingUMIST, UKG.Nenadic@umist.ac.ukIrena Spasi?Computer ScienceUniversity of Salford, UKI.Spasic@salford.ac.ukSophia AnaniadouComputer ScienceUniversity of Salford, UKS.Ananiadou@salford.ac.ukAbstractIn this paper we discuss morpho-syntacticclues that can be used to facilitate termi-nological processing in Serbian.
Amethod (called SRCE) for automatic ex-traction of multiword terms is presented.The approach incorporates a set of ge-neric morpho-syntactic filters for recogni-tion of term candidates, a method forconflation of morphological variants anda module for foreign word recognition.Morpho-syntactic filters describe generalterm formation patterns, and are imple-mented as generic regular expressions.The inner structure together with theagreements within term candidates areused as clues to discover the boundariesof nested terms.
The results of the termi-nological processing of a textbook corpusin the domains of mathematics and com-puter science are presented.1 IntroductionAn overwhelming amount of textual informationpresented in newswire, scientific literature, legaltexts, etc., makes it difficult for a human to effi-ciently localise the information of interest.
Inparticular, it is doubtful that anybody could proc-ess such huge amount of information without anautomated help, especially when the informationcontent spans across domains.
The amount of e-documents and their fuzzy structure requireeffective tools that can help users tosystematically gather and make use of theinformation encoded in text documents.
For thesereasons, different text and/or literature miningtechniques have been developed recently (e.g.
(Hearst et al, 2000; Grobelnik et al, 2000)) inorder to facilitate efficient discovery of knowl-cient discovery of knowledge contained in largescientific or legal text collections.
The main goalis to retrieve the knowledge ?buried?
in a textand to present it to users in a digested form.The discovery (and transfer) of knowledge re-lies heavily on the identification of relevant con-cepts, which are linguistically represented bydomain specific terms.
Terms represent the mostimportant notions in a domain and characterisedocuments semantically, and thus should be usedas a basis for sophisticated knowledge acquisi-tion.
Still, few text-mining systems incorporatedeep and dynamic terminology processing, al-though there is an increasing amount of newterms that represent newly created concepts inrapidly developing fields.
Existing term diction-aries and standardised terminologies offer only apartial solution, as they are almost never up-to-date.
Although naming conventions do exist forsome types of concepts (e.g.
gene and proteinnames in biomedicine), these are only guidelinesand as such do not impose restrictions to domainexperts, who frequently introduce ad-hoc terms.Thus, the lack of clear naming conventionsmakes the automatic term recognition (ATR) taskdifficult even for languages that are not morpho-logically and derivationally rich.ATR tools have been developed for English(Frantzi et al, 2000), French (Jacquemin, 2001),Japanese (Nakagawa and Mori, 2000), etc.
Somemethods rely purely on linguistic information,namely morpho-syntactic features of term candi-dates (Ananiadou, 1994).
Hybrid approachescombining linguistic patterns and statisticalmeasures (e.g.
(Frantzi et al, 2000)) and ma-chine-learning techniques (e.g.
(Hatzivassiloglouet al, 2001)) have been also used.However, few studies have been done formorphologically rich Slavic languages.
For ex-ample, Vintar (2000) presented two methods forextraction of terminological collocations in orderto assist the translation process in Slovene.
Thestatistical approach was based on the mutual ex-pectation and LocalMax measures, and involvedcollocation extraction from raw text.
The ex-tracted collocations were filtered with a stop-word list, and only collocations containing sin-gle-word terms (devised previously by bilingualalignment) were accepted as relevant.
In anotherapproach, she used regular expression patterns toextract term collocations from a morpho-syntactically tagged corpus.
However, these pat-terns are too general, and consequently not allextracted phrases were terminologically relevant.In this paper we discuss automatic terminologyrecognition in Serbian, in particular, the extrac-tion of multiword terms, which are very frequent1in certain domains (e.g.
natural sciences, mathe-matics, etc.).
Since Serbian is a highly inflectiveand morphologically and derivationally rich lan-guage, morpho-syntactic clues are indispensablein the ATR process.
Our hybrid approach (calledSRCE ?
Serbian C-value) combines morpho-syntactic features of term candidates and statisti-cal analysis of their occurrences in text.
In addi-tion, since terms appear in texts in many differentforms due to their morphological and derivationalvariations, the necessity of taking these variationsinto account becomes particularly apparent.Therefore, the SRCE method incorporates genericmorpho-syntactic patterns, a term normalisationapproach and a foreign word detection method.The paper is organised as follows: in Section 2we present an overview of the core term extrac-tion method, called the C-value method.
In Sec-tion 3 we discuss morpho-syntactic clues, thenormalisation approach and the foreign wordrecognition that are used for singling out terms inSerbian.
The experiments and evaluation are de-scribed in Section 4.2 Automatic Term Recognition: the coreC-value methodOur approach to ATR is based on the C-valuemethod (Frantzi et al, 2000), which extractsmulti-word terms.
It is a general term recognitionapproach in the sense that it is not limited to spe-cific classes of concepts.
The approach is hybrid:the method combines linguistic knowledge (term1 In English, more than 85% of domain-specific terms aremulti-words (Nakagawa and Mori, 2000).formation patterns) and statistical analysis.
Lin-guistic knowledge is used to single out term can-didates, while their statistical features are used tomeasure the likelihood of term candidates being?real?
terms.
The method uses a POS tagged textas input, and outputs a list of extracted termsranked according to their termhoods.
Termhoodis a numeric estimation of the degree to which agiven linguistic unit (a multiword compound) isrelated to a domain-specific concept.
However,the values are not normalised in the sense that amultiword, having a termhood value 10, is 10times more likely to be a term than a term candi-date with a termhood value 1.In general, the C-value method enhances thecommonly used baseline method that extractsmost frequent term candidates (assuming thattermhoods directly correspond to frequencies ofoccurrence) by making it sensitive to a particulartype of terms ?
nested terms2.The method is implemented as a two-step pro-cedure.
In the first step, term candidates are ex-tracted using a set of morpho-syntactic filters,which describe general term formation patterns ina given language.
As a rule, terms form a propersubset of noun phrases (NPs).
For example, a setof general filters for English may include the fol-lowing patterns:3Noun+ Noun(Adj | Noun)+ Noun(Adj | Noun)+| ((Adj | Noun)* Prep?)
(Adj | Noun)* NounAlthough these patterns are regular expressions,the filters are implemented as unification-likeLR(1) rules (Mima et al, 1995) in order to facili-tate processing of grammatical agreements (ifany) within term candidates.For each term candidate extracted by a filter, aset of nested term candidates is generated (seeTable 1 for an example in English).
The proce-dure for the generation of nested term candidatesis implemented via transformation rules for eachmorpho-syntactic filter that is used to extract2 For example, nuclear receptor is a nested term in hormonenuclear receptor.
Similarly, baza podataka (Engl.
database)is a nested term in a?uriranje baze podataka (Engl.
update ofdatabase).3 Noun, Adj and Prep denote POS tags that correspond tonouns, adjectives and prepositions respectively.
These filterswere used for ATR from newswire corpora and in biomedi-cine (Frantzi et al, 2000; Nenadi?
et al, 2002).term candidates.
The main indicator that a nestedterm candidate might be a real term is that it alsoappears on its own in the corpus.Term Term candidate:steroid hormone receptor factor +Nested term candidates:steroid hormone receptorhormone receptor factorsteroid hormonehormone receptorreceptor factor+-++-Table 1: Nested term candidatesIn the second step, the term candidates are as-signed termhoods (referred to as C-values) ac-cording to a statistical measure.
The measureamalgamates four numerical corpus-based char-acteristic of a candidate term, namely the fre-quency of occurrence, the frequency of occurringas nested within other candidate terms, the num-ber of candidate terms inside which the givencandidate term is nested, and the number ofwords contained in the candidate term.
Formally,where a denotes a term candidate, f(a) corre-sponds to its frequency, |a| denotes the number ofwords in a, and Ta is a set of terms that containterm a as a nested term.
Term candidates areranked according to their C-values, and termswhose C-values are higher than a chosen thresh-old are presented as terms.Evaluation of the C-value method for Englishhas shown that using additional statistical infor-mation (frequency of ?nestedness?)
improves theprecision with slight loss on recall (Frantzi et al,2000).
Also, systematic term normalisation mayfurther improve precision and recall of themethod (Nenadi?
et al, 2002).3 Morpho-syntactic clues for extractionof terms in SerbianIn order to adjust the core C-value method forSerbian, we have defined an appropriate set ofmorpho-syntactic filters and rules for inflectionalnormalisation of term candidates, and, addition-ally, a module for foreign word recognition.3.1 Term formation patternsAs a rule, the vast majority of multiword terms inSerbian match the following general formationpattern:4(1)           (Adj | ProAdj | Num | Noun )+ Nounwhich has been used for recognition of NPs inSerbian (Nenadi?
and Vitas, 1998a).
Of course,not all NPs that follow this pattern are terms.5Moreover, when applied to an initially POStagged text6, this pattern may be too general evenfor description of NPs, as not all word sequencesin a text that match this pattern are valid NPs.
Forexample, in a sequence koji se naziva relacionimodel (Engl.
which is called the relationalmodel), a word naziva can be initially tagged ei-ther as a noun naziv (Engl.
name) or a verb na-zivati (Engl.
call), although, in this sentence, onlythe latter is correct.
Thus, without further POSdisambiguation, the string naziva relacioni modelfollows the pattern (1), although it is not a validNP.
This means that classical regular expressionsare not sufficient for the representation of suchconstraints, and that we need more expressivemeans to model constraints related to the NPstructure and agreements of multiword constitu-ents on case, number and gender.
We used thenotion of generic patterns as an extension ofregular expressions (Nenadi?
and Vitas, 1998b).For example, a generic pattern(2)      Adj.x1y1z1  Noun.x1y1z1   Adj.x2y2g   Noun.x2y2gmodels obligatory agreements that each NP froma specific class has to fulfil: both first and secondpairs of adjectives and nouns must have the samevalues for certain morphological features (i.e.values for gender, number and case denoted by xi,4 ProAdj and Num denote possessive adjectives and numbersrespectively.5 For example, ovaj na?in (Engl.
this way), veliki deo (Engl.large part), etc.
This is a reason why we need additionalprocessing to recognise semantically relevant NPs.6 Initially (or lexically) tagged POS text is a text in whichevery word occurrence is associated with all of its possiblelexical and grammatical interpretations.
The initial POStagging is intrinsically ambiguous as each word is analysedseparately, without considering neighbouring words (Ne-nadi?
and Vitas, 1998a).
Thus, as a result of initial tagging, alot of lexical ambiguities arise resulting in highly ambiguousword sequences.
See Section 4 for further discussion.?
?
??
?
???
?= ?
?
?otherwise)), ( | |1 )( ( | | lognested, not   is                ), ( | | log) ( 22a a Tb b fT a f aa af aa value Cyi and zi respectively), while these values may bedifferent for each respective pair.
The last adjec-tive and noun are ?frozen?
in the genitive case(g), while the case (z1) in the first pair is ?free?.By defining generic patterns one can model theagreements within various lexical structures in ahighly inflective language such as Serbian (Ne-nadi?
and Vitas, 1998b).
As a result, theseagreements can be used to detect the boundariesof the structures in questions.A set of generic patterns has been used tomodel the most frequent term formation patternsin Serbian.
The set is mainly based on patternsused to model NPs in Serbian.
Table 2 presentssome of them.
First four patterns describe NPscontaining a nested NP whose lexical properties(such as case and/or number) are invariant in allinflected forms of the host NP.
As a rule, the fro-zen part is in genitive.
Depending on NP con-stituents, some agreements are obligatory withinfrozen part (see, for example, the third pattern ?agreements between an adjective and the corre-sponding noun), or not (see the fourth pattern ?no necessary agreement between the last twonouns in gender, number).
The fifth pattern (Ta-ble 2) corresponds to NPs that do not have in-variant parts.Generic patterns Examples1 N1   N gen baza podataka nejednakost trougla2 A1   N1   N gen manipulativni aspekt modela grani?na vrednost niza3 N1   A gen  N gen operacija prirodnog spajanja niz realnih brojeva4 N1   N 2;gen N gen integritet baze podataka kriterijum konvergencije niza5 A1+  N1 pro?ireni relacioni model  kompletan metri?ki  prostorTable 2: Frequent term formation patterns7While these patterns are used to single outterm candidates from an initially tagged text,agreements within NPs are used to generate pos-sible nested structures.
While the rules for nestedstructures are more ?blurred?
in English (since7 In order to improve readability of filters, the generic pat-terns in this table are encoded using the following syntax: Aand N stand for Adj and Noun respectively, while X1 standsfor X.x1y1z1 , Xgen stands for X.xyg and X2;gen stands forX.x2y2g (for X ?
{A, N}).
Also, invariant parts are underlinedin the given examples.nouns are usually used as modifiers), ?nested-ness?
in Serbian has to preserve the necessarystructure and inner agreements, which are spe-cific for the NP class in question.
Therefore, gen-eration of nested term candidates depends on thetype of host term candidates (consider examplesin Table 3).
Nested structures that are not them-selves NPs are not considered as term candidates.Nested term candidates  NP Term2manipulativni aspekt modelamanipulativni aspektaspekt modela++++--3operacija prirodnog spajanjaoperacija prirodnogprirodnog spajanja+-++-+4integritet baze podatakaintegritet bazebaze podataka++++-+5kompletan metri?ki prostorkompletan metri?kimetri?ki prostor+-++-+Table 3: Nested term candidates (in Serbian)3.2 Conflating morphological variantsIf we aim at systematic recognition of terms, thenhandling term variation has to be treated as anessential part of terminology retrieval.
Termvariation ranges from simple orthographic (e.g.oestrogen ?
estrogen, vitamin ?
vitamine) andmorphological variants (e.g.
clone ?
clones) tomore complex semantic variation (e.g.
eye sur-gery ?
ophthalmologic surgery).Several methods for term variation manage-ment have been developed.
For example, theBLAST system (Krauthammer et al, 2000) usedapproximate text string matching techniques anddictionaries to recognise spelling variations ingene and protein names.
FASTR (Jacquemin,2001) handles morphological and syntactic varia-tions by means of meta-rules used to describeterm normalisation, while semantic variants arehandled via WordNet.The necessity of taking term variants into ac-count as part of ATR process becomes particu-larly apparent in highly inflective languages.
InSerbian, for example, the simplest morphologicalvariations generally give rise to 14 possible vari-ants of a single term (seven cases and two num-bers (singular and plural) ?
see Table 4).
If thecore C-value method were to be applied withoutconflating morphological variants, then term-hoods would be distributed across different mor-phological variants providing separatefrequencies for individual variants instead of asingle frequency calculated for a term candidateunifying all of its variants.
In addition, the ?nest-ing?
factor of the C-value method would causeskewed results, since the case property of nestedterms does not have normal distribution.
Namely,as indicated previously (see Table 2), the major-ity of nested terms in Serbian are in genitive case,which means that the termhood for a term candi-date in genitive case would differ significantlyfrom its counterparts in other cases.
Moreover,this deviation cannot be remedied later by sum-ming up individual termhoods, since C-value isnot an additive measure.
Hence, in order for theC-value method to be applied correctly in ahighly inflective language, term candidates mustbe (at least inflectionally) normalised prior to thecalculation of termhoods.Canonical form:operacija prirodnog spajanja (nom.
sing.
= ns)Morphological variants:operacija prirodnog spajanja (ns;gp)operacije prirodnog spajanja (gs;np;ap;vp)operaciji  prirodnog spajanja (ds;ls)operaciju prirodnog spajanja (as)operacijo prirodnog spajanja (vs)operacijom prirodnog spajanja (is)operacijama prirodnog spajanja (dp;ip;lp)Normalised form:operacija (ns) prirodno (nsm) spajanje (ns)Table 4: Variants and normalisation of termcandidates ?
an example for term operacija prirod-nog spajanja (Engl.
natural join operation)Our approach to morphological normalisationof term variants is based on the normalisation ofindividual term constituents.
Namely, each wordthat is a part of a term candidate is mapped ontoits lemma, and term candidates are treated as se-quences of lemmas.
At the end of the ATR proc-ess, terms are converted into their canonical form(singular, nominative case), which is not neces-sarily identical to the normalised form (the se-quence of the corresponding singular words insingular, nominative case).
The normalisationprocess is illustrated in Table 4.At this point, the usage of generic patterns inorder to check the agreements in case, numberand gender during the phase of filtering of termcandidates might seem unnecessary, since allthese features are subsequently normalised.
How-ever, in order to enhance the precision of theSRCE method, it is important for term candidatesto be correctly recognised prior to the statisticalanalysis.
This means that the necessary agree-ments between NP constituents have to bechecked.
Once the term candidates are identified,they are normalised in order to make the most ofthe statistical part of the method.3.3 Foreign word detectionDespite the efforts to rely mostly on Serbian vo-cabulary when building a terminology, many ofthe terms used in specific scientific domains bor-row some of their building blocks from lan-guages other than Serbian at various levels.
Forexample, at morphological level, foreign suffixes,mostly originating from Latin and Greek, are of-ten ?preferred?
to their Serbian counterparts in,for example, the biomedical domain, even whenthey are used to modify a root that is in fact Ser-bian (e.g.
amino-kiselina (Engl.
amino acid)).Similarly, at lexical level, words of foreign originare used to form multi-word terms (e.g.
redun-dantan atribut (Engl.
redundant attribute)).
Thisis particularly obvious in fairly recently expandeddisciplines such as computer science, where, formany of the original terms used in English, it hasnot been simple to adapt new terms in Serbian.Consequently, many of the terms have been sim-ply transcribed into Serbian or, even worse, theyare still used in their original form.
Not only doforeign words appear as ?valid?
parts of terms,but they have also proved to be good indicatorsof terms.
It is, thus, necessary to develop proce-dures for their detection.In our approach, the recognition of foreignwords has been integrated into the ATR processfor Serbian.
The following morphological fea-tures are used to indicate occurrences of potentialforeign words (Spasi?, 1996):?
characters (e.g.
x, y, q) that do not belong toSerbian graphemic system,?
successive vowel occurrences,?
exception to the palatalisation rule,?
exception to the assimilation rules,?
occurrence of atypical consonant bi/tri-grams?
occurrence of bi-grams or tri-grams typicalfor other languages (especially Latin andEnglish), and?
foreign affixes.The words satisfying some of the above crite-ria are not necessarily foreign words.
The preci-sion of these rules varies from one to another.
Forexample, the first rule is the strongest indicator ofthe presence of foreign words, since the alpha-betical system used is not Serbian.
Other rulesmay be tuned to a certain extent in order to in-crease their precision.Let us, for instance, consider the second rule.The successive usage of vowels is fairly frequentin Serbian, but the majority of such cases followcertain restrictions8 under which they can occur.Moreover, these restrictions can be described byregular expressions.
Any other occurrence ofsuccessive vowels can be used to indicate a po-tential foreign word.Foreign word detection has been incorporatedinto the ATR process in two ways: during theselection of term candidates and for the calcula-tion of termhoods.
First, it is used before the ini-tial POS tagging process in order to locateforeign words, which are tagged accordingly.Otherwise, foreign words would be typicallyconsidered as unknown.
As explained earlier, it isvery likely for foreign words in Serbian scientificand technical texts to be related to domain-specific concepts, and their mishandling wouldsignificantly decrease the recall of the ATRmethod.
This information is used by the linguisticpart of the SRCE-method, where we introduced aspecial category corresponding to foreign words.In the second step, that is - once the term can-didates have been selected - the informationabout foreign origin is used to increase the term-hood of term candidates containing such words.This time, foreign word recognition is used toimprove the precision of the ATR method.8 For example, verbs in the paste tense, masculine genderalways end with a pair of vowels (e.g.
ispitivao (Engl.
exam-ined)).
Further, some adjectives in masculine gender (e.g.beo (Engl.
white)), as well as some nouns in masculine gen-der (e.g.
smisao (Engl.
sense)) also end with a pair of vow-els.
The usage of prefixes is another example where vowelsmay occur successively (e.g.
za+ustaviti (Engl.
to stop)).4 Experiments and discussionThe preliminary ATR experiments were con-ducted using the SRCE system on a corpus con-taining samples from university textbooks inmathematics9 and computer science10 (altogether120k words).Texts were pre-processed, i.e.
initially tagged,by a system of electronic dictionaries (e-dictionaries) containing simple nominal wordsfor Serbian (Vitas, 1993).
E-dictionaries containexhaustive description of morpho-syntacticcharacteristics and are used for lexicalrecognition and initial lemmatisation of wordsthat occur in a text.
This process is realised by e-dictionary look-up, which results in an initiallytagged text: each textual word is associated withits lemma(s) and corresponding morpho-syntacticcategories (tags) retrieved from thee-dictionary.
In general, e-dictionaries cannotresolve lexical ambiguities that result from thefact that there is no one-to-one correspondencebetween word forms and their morpho-syntacticfeatures.
There are different methods to resolveambiguities (e.g.
cache-dictionaries or localgrammars), but in our experiments no disam-biguation techniques were applied.In order to extract a list of term candidates, theset of morpho-syntactic filters described in 3.1was applied to the initially tagged corpus.
Weperformed two sets of experiments.In the first experiment, we did not use anystoplist to discard unwanted constituents of termcandidates.
For each term candidate, we gener-ated a canonical form (nominative, singular), amorphologically normalised form (list of normal-ised words comprising the term candidate) and alist of nested term candidates (see Table 3 forexamples).
In the next step, C-values for termcandidates were calculated using statistics basedon occurrences of normalised forms, and all termcandidates with C-values above an empiricallychosen threshold were selected as terms.Table 5 gives some examples of the recognisedterms.
In order to calculate the precision, we ex-9 N.
La?eti?, Matematika II/1, Nau?na knjiga, Beograd,199410 G.
Pavlovi?-La?eti?, Osnove relacionih baza podataka,Vesta - Matemati?ki fakultet, Beograd, 1996.
We would liketo thank the authors of both textbooks for giving us permis-sion to use their texts for experiments.amined separately interval precisions in sub-corpora in mathematical analysis and computerscience (see Table 6).
Intervals are sets of recog-nised terms that are placed at certain positionswithin the list.
For example, interval 1-50 con-tains top 50 terms, while the interval over 150contains all terms whose positions in the list areabove 150.
Terms have been inspected by thefirst two authors, who are Serbian native speakersand are specialists in both computer science andmathematics.Term  C-valuemetri?ki prostortopolo?ki prostorotvoren skupnormiran prostorKo?ijev nizzatvoren skupvektorski prostorprirodan brojnejednakost trouglaneprekidnost preslikavanjaHausdorfov topolo?ki prostor633.55175.1393.2088.0068.1159.2053.1344.4133.9828.0219.43Table 5: Top ranked terms in the domain ofmathematical analysisInterval Mathematical analysisComputerscience1 ?
50 98% 90%50 ?
100 88% 70%100 ?
150 52% 58%> 150 69% 68%Table 6: Precision of the ATR method(without the usage of a stoplist)In the first 50 terms for the domain of mathe-matical analysis, there was only one false termcandidate (specijalna klasa neprekidnih pres-likavanja), which contained an ?unwanted?
adjec-tive specijalna (Engl.
special).
The reason for thesignificant drop in the precision in the second andthird intervals is mainly the same: apart from fewtrue negatives11, the majority of false term candi-dates contained common ?unwanted?
constitu-ents, which are sampled in Table 7.
The resultsfor the computer science sub-corpus were slightlyworse since the mathematical language seems tobe more consistent and restricted.11 Such as: toplo?ka ta?ka gledi?ta, kompletnost prostora igra,kod preslikavnja.In the second experiment, we used a stoplistcontaining the words detected as frequent?wrong?
constituents in the previous experi-ments.
The results are summarised in Table 8.prozvoljantra?enspecijalanva?anodgovaraju?idefinisanop?tidokazanglobalanjedinstvenpoznatvelikipojamspecifi?nostsvojstvoslu?ajposledicagledi?teTable 7: A sample of normalised stop-wordsInterval Mathematical analysisComputerscience1 ?
50 100% 94%50 ?
100 92% 92%100 ?
150 80% 74%> 150 74% 70%Table 8: Precision of the ATR method(with the usage of a stoplist)The majority of remaining errors originatefrom the ambiguous POS tagging (more than50%, problematic words being naziv(a), igra,kod, etc.).
Since no further processing of text hasbeen performed, another source of problems isthe detection of boundaries of frozen parts inprepositional phrases (e.g.
na osnovu (Engl.based on), u slu?aju (Engl.
in the case of)),which may be resolved by using a set of corre-sponding local grammars (Nenadi?
and Vitas,1998b).
In addition, for the computer sciencedomain, some of the false terms were related to aspecific application area (the text intensivelyused examples from a university information sys-tem, so candidates such as zvanje nastavnika(Engl.
lecturer position), godina studija (Engl.year of study), etc.
were wrongly suggested ascomputer science terms).5 ConclusionIn this paper we have presented an approach toautomatic extraction of terminology in a morpho-logically rich language, such as Serbian.
Termsextracted automatically may be used as semanticindicators for a range of classic IR/IE tasks.The approach is hybrid: it combines morpho-syntactic filters for extraction of term candidates,and statistical analysis that ranks term candidatesaccording to their termhood.Extraction of term candidates is based on therecognition of proper NPs.
In order to enhanceboth the precision and recall of the ATR method,it is inevitable to incorporate significant linguisticknowledge.
Since describing NPs by means ofregular expressions is not sufficient for modellingagreements between NP constituents, we haveused generic morpho-syntactic patterns.
Further,since not all NPs are terms that semanticallycharacterise documents, we have used a statisti-cal measure in order to estimate semantic signifi-cance of term candidates.
Also, once the termcandidates are correctly identified, they are nor-malised in order to make the most of the statisti-cal part of the method.
Term candidatessuggested as terms by the statistical part of theSRCE method are finally mapped into the canoni-cal form of the original term.The preliminary experiments show that theprecision is in line with the results for English,and that for the top ranked terms the precision iswell above 90%.
The analysis of errors showsthat the majority of them appear due to lexicalambiguity of the input text.
Certainly, if the cor-pora were lexically disambiguated, we wouldhave better precision.In order to improve the recall, additional mor-pho-syntactic filters need to be identified.
In par-ticular, we plan to study terms that containprepositions, as this is a common formation pat-tern in many domains.
Further, the broader han-dling of term variants (e.g.
dialectic variants,acronyms, derivational variants) may also im-prove both precision and recall.
Currently wedeal only with inflectional variants by mappingthem to a canonical form.
Term variants unifica-tion and normalisation also provide a broaderbasis for further IR and IE tasks, as queries canbe expanded by referring to a class of synony-mous terms as opposed to a single term.ReferencesAnaniadou S. 1994.
Methodology for Automatic TermRecognition.
In Proceedings of COLING-94,Kyoto, JapanFrantzi K.T., Ananiadou S. and Mima H. 2000.
Auto-matic Recognition of Multi-word Terms: the C-value/NC-value Method.
Int.
J. on Digital Libraries,3/2, pp.
115-130.Grobelnik M., Mladeni?
D. and Mili?-Frayling N.2000.
Text Mining as Integration of Several Re-lated Research Areas, KDD 2000 Workshop onText Mining, Boston, USAHatzivassiloglou V., Duboue P. and Rzetsky A.
2001.Disambiguating Proteins, Genes, and RNA in Text:A Machine Learning Approach.
Bioinformatics,17/1, pp.
S97-S106Hearst M. 2000.
Text Mining Tools: Instruments forScientific Discovery, in IMA Text Mining Work-shop, Institute for Mathematics and its Applica-tions, Minneapolis, USA, 2000Jacquemin C. 2001.
Spotting and discovering termsthrough NLP.
MIT Press, Cambridge MA, 378 p.Krauthammer M., Rzhetsky A., Morozov P. andFriedman C. 2000.
Using BLAST for identifyinggene and protein names in journal articles.
Gene,259, pp.
245-252.Mima H., Ando K. and Aoe J.
1995: IncrementalGeneration of LR(1) Parse Tables.
In Proceedingsof NLPRS?95, Pacific-Rim Symp., Seoul, KoreaNakagawa H. and Mori T. 2000.
Nested Collocationand Compound Noun for Term Recognition.
Proc.of COMPUTERM 98, pp.
64?70Nenadi?
G. and Vitas D. 1998a.
Formal Model ofNoun Phrases in Serbo-Croatian.
BULAG 23,Universite Franche-Compte, Besan?on, France.Nenadi?
G. and Vitas D. 1998b.
Using Local Gram-mars for Agreement Modelling in Highly InflectiveLanguages.
In Proceedings of TSD 98.
MasarykUniversity, Brno, pp.
91-96.Nenadi?
G., Mima H., Spasi?
I., Ananiadou S. andTsujii J.
2002.
Terminology-driven Literature Min-ing and Knowledge Acquisition in Biomedicine.
In-ternational Journal of Medical Informatics, 1-16.Spasi?
I.
1996.
Automatic Foreign Words Recognitionin a Serbian Scientific or Technical Text.
In Pro-ceedings of Standardisation of Terminology, Bel-grade, Yugoslavia, 1996Vintar ?.
2000.
Extracting Terms and TerminologicalCollocations from the ELAN Slovene-English Par-allel Corpus.
In Proceedings of the 5th EAMTWorkshop, Ljubljana, Slovenia, 2000Vitas D. 1993.
Mathematical Model of Serbo-Croatian Morphology (Nominal Inflection).
PhDthesis.
Faculty of Mathematics, Belgrade.
