Conceptual Metaphors: Ontology-based representation and corporadriven Mapping PrinciplesKathleen AhrensNational Taiwan Universitykathleenahrens@yahoo.comSiaw Fong ChungNational Taiwan Universityclaricefong6376@hotmail.comChu-Ren HuangAcademia Sinicachuren@sinica.edu.twAbstractThe goal of this paper is to integrate theConceptual Mapping Model with an on-tology-based knowledge representation(i.e.
Suggested Upper Merged Ontology(SUMO)) in order to demonstrate thatconceptual metaphor analysis can be re-stricted and eventually, automated.
Inparticular, we will propose a corpora-based operational definition for MappingPrinciples, which are explanations of whya conventional conceptual metaphor has aparticular source-target domain pairing.This paper will examine 2000 random ex-amples of ?economy?
(jingji) in MandarinChinese and postulate Mapping Principlesbased frequency and delimited withSUMO.1 IntroductionA theory of metaphor has been the focus of studyon lexical and figurative meaning for the past twodecades.
Are conventional conceptual metaphors acognitive rather than a linguistic phenomenon?Work within Cognitive Linguistics would seem tosay that this is the case.
For example, Lakoff(1993) writes with respect to the source-target do-main mapping of the conventional conceptualmetaphor LOVE IS A JOURNEY:Is there a general principle govern-ing how these linguistic expressionsabout journeys are used to charac-terize love?.
[Yes], but it is a gen-eral principle that is neither part ofthe grammar of English, nor theEnglish lexicon.
Rather it is part ofthe conceptual system underlyingEnglish?.
(page 306, italics added)Thus, the onus of dealing with metaphoricalmeaning in the lexicon is not necessary.
Metaphormust be treated at a different (i.e.
higher) cognitivelevel.But is it really the case that there are nogeneral principles that can be extracted and pro-posed at the lexical level?
The Conceptual Map-ping (CM) Model (Ahrens 2002) was proposed toconstrain the Contemporary Theory of Metaphor(Lakoff 1993).
This model analyzes the linguisticcorrespondences between a source and target(knowledge) domain in order to determine the un-derlying reason for the source-target pairings.
Theunderlying reason is formulated in terms of a Map-ping Principle.
The theory also postulates a Map-ping Principle Constraint, which says that a targetdomain will select only source domains that in-volve unique mapping principles.
For example, thetarget domain of IDEA uses the source domains ofBUILDING and FOOD, but it does so for differentreasons (as we will discuss in the next section).With the addition of this constraint, the CM modelis able to explicate the polysemy inherent in agiven target domain.
In addition, the CM Modelpresupposes that Mapping Principles are conven-tionalized linguistically but not conceptualized apriori.
This model is supported in psycholinguisticexperiments because it correctly predicted theprocessing differences involved between conven-tional and novel metaphors (Ahrens 2002).
In thispaper, we propose a new approach to conceptualmetaphors that incorporates two computationallytrackable elements.
First, the data analysis is cor-pus-based, following the example of MetaBank(Martin 1992).
Second, the representation is ontol-ogy-based.
Both elements strengthen the empiricalbasis of the account.In this paper, we propose that the mostfrequent mapping instance within a source domainindicates the basis of the reason for the source-target domain pairing, i.e.
the mapping principle.We test this empirical prototype (EP) hypothesisby running extracting a dataset of 2000 examplesof jingji ?economy?
from the Academia SinicaBalanced Corpus.
We hypothesize that eachsource-target domain pairing will have a proto-typical instance of mapping as evidenced by anindividual lexical item that is highly frequent ascompared with other mappings.
In addition, wepropose using an ontological-based knowledgerepresentation, such as SUMO, to define and de-limit the source domain knowledge in the CMModel.
This has the advantage of using SUMO toinfer knowledge through automatic reasoning, andas well as constraining the scope and falsifiablityof the conceptual metaphor.2 The Conceptual Mapping Model andOntologyAhrens (2002) proposed that the question asked byLakoff above (?Is there a general principle gov-erning how these linguistic expressions about jour-neys are used to characterize love??)
should beanswered by examining the lexical correspon-dences that exist between a source and target do-main.
She proposes that the linguistic expressionsthat are used metaphorically can be analyzed interms of the entities, qualities and functions thatcan map between a source and a target domain.When these conventionalized metaphorical expres-sions have been analyzed, they are compared withthe real world knowledge that the source domainentails, and an underlying reason for these map-pings is then postulated.For example, she points out that in theconceptual metaphor IDEA IS BUILDING inMandarin, the linguistic expressions relating to theconcept of foundation, stability and constructionwere mapped (i.e.
are conventional linguistic ex-amples) while concepts relating to position of thebuilding, internal wiring and plumbing, the exteriorof the building, windows and doors were not (andthese are the concepts that are in the real worldknowledge of the source domain).
Thus she postu-lated that the target domain of IDEA uses thesource domain of BUILDING in order to empha-size the concept of structure.
Thus, when someonetalks about ideas and want to express positive no-tions concerning organization, they use the sourcedomain of BUILDING.
The Mapping Principleformulated in this case was therefore the follow-ing:(1) Mapping principle for IDEA IS BUILDING:Idea is understood as building because buildingsinvolve a (physical) structure and ideas involvean (abstract) structure.
(Ahrens 2002)When IDEA is talked about in terms ofFOOD, however, the expressions that are mappedare ?ingredient?, ?spoil?, ?flavorless?, ?full?, ?taste?,?chew?, ?digest?
and ?absorb?.
Mandarin Chinese,in contrast with English, does not have conven-tional expressions relating to ?cooking?
or ?stew-ing?
of ideas.
Thus, the postulated MappingPrinciple is: Idea is understood as food becausefood involves being eaten and digested (by thebody) and ideas involved being taken in andprocessed (by the mind) (Ahrens 2002).Thus, IDEA uses the source domains ofBUILDING and FOOD for different reasons,namely to convey information related to ?structure?or ?processing?
(i.e.
?understanding?)
respectively.Thus, it is similar to the Contemporary Theory ofmetaphor in that it supposes that there are system-atic mappings between a source and target domain,but it goes a step further in postulating an under-lying reason for that mapping.
The CM Model pre-dicts that conventional metaphors, novel metaphorsthat follow the mapping principle and novel meta-phors that don?t follow the mapping principle willbe rated differently on interpretability and accept-ability scales when other factors, such as frequencyare controlled for.
This was, in fact, found to be thecase (Ahrens 2002).
Other theories of metaphorprocessing such as Gentner?s Structure MappingModel (Gentner and Wolff 2000), or the Attribu-tive Categorization Hypothesis (McGlone 1996) donot distinguish between novel and conventionalmetaphors, nor do they suppose that there might bedifferent types of novel metaphors.The CM model of metaphor presupposedstructured shared source domain knowledge.
For amapping to be conventionalized and understood byspeakers, the content and structure of the sourcedomain knowledge must be a priori knowledgeand should not have to be acquired.
How to defineand verify such structured knowledge is a chal-lenge to this theory.
We attempt to meet this chal-lenge in two ways: first, by assuming that sourcedomain knowledge representation is instantiated bya shared upper ontology, such as SUMO.
If thesource domain knowledge representation is indeedontology-based, we can adopt the null hypothesisthat the mapping principle is based on one of theinference rules encoded on that particular concep-tual node.
In consequence, we can take the secondstep by examining actual mappings of linguisticexpressions in corpora, and extract the most fre-quent mappings to verify the null hypothesis.
Thiswill also allow us to investigate if it is the case thatfrequency of use in a newspaper corpora necessar-ily reflects the underlying mapping principle, anissue which is currently open to interpretation.The integration of an upper ontology to theCM model has the following theoretical implica-tions:First, the source domain knowledge repre-sentation is now pre-defined and constrained.
Sec-ond, the validity of such hypothesis will in turnsupport the robustness and universality of the pro-posed upper ontology.3 SUMOSUMO (Suggested Upper Merged Ontology ?http://ontology.teknowledge.com) is a shared upperontology developed by the IEEE sanctioned IEEEStandard Upper Ontology Working Group.
It is atheory in first-order logic that consists of approxi-mately one thousand concepts and 4000 axioms.
Itspurpose is to be a shared and inter-operable upperontology (Niles and Pease 2001, Pease and Niles2002, Sevcenko 2003)  Since ontologies are for-malized descriptions of the structure of knowledgebases, SUMO can also be viewed as a proposedrepresentation of shared human knowledge, andthus a good candidate for mapping informationabout the source domain to the target domain.What we will look at below is whether the SUMOconceptual terms and inferences are candidates forknowledge representation in the source domain.
Inorder to analyze this, we first need to extract froma corpora the linguistic terms that are used formappings between a source and a target domain.The application of SUMO in NLP and in proc-essing of lexical meaning is facilitated by its inter-face with WordNet.
The SUMO interface allowsusers to search and map each English lexicalmeaning defined in WordNet to a concept node onthe SUMO ontology.
Similarly, one can alsosearch for a Chinese lexical meaning and map it toa SUMO concept node through a Chinese-Englishbilingual translation equivalents database(http://ckip.iis.sinica.edu.tw/CKIP/ontology/).4 Corpora DataIn order to test the feasibility of using SUMO toaid the analysis of Mapping Principles within theframework of the CM Model, we searched theAcademia Sinica Balanced Corpus, a tagged cor-pus of over 5 million words of modern Mandarinusage in Taiwan (available on the Internet:http://www.sinica.edu.tw/SinicaCorpus/).
Themaximum number of responses (i.e.
2000) wasobtained for the word ?jingji?
(economy) in Man-darin Chinese.
Each of these 2000 was examinedand all metaphorical instances were marked.
(Ametaphorical instance is defined as when an ab-stract concept such as ?economy?
is discussed interms of a concrete concept, such as ?building?
.
)All instances of concrete concepts were thengrouped into source domains.
All source-targetdomain pairings that had more than 20 instanceswere then examined.
In Tables 1-4 below we showthe source domains that were found for jingji?economy?
and we give the total number of in-stances and the number of tokens for each meta-phor, as well as a proposed mapping principlebased.
Also note that the following mappings weremanually analyzed and classified.We first note that the EP (empirical proto-type) hypothesis holds up since in all source-targetdomain pairings except for in ECONOMY ISWAR in Table 4.
In the remaining three meta-phors, there is one or two lexical items that is/areobviously more frequent than the others.Table 1: ECONOMY IS A PERSON (121 instances)M.P.
: Economy is person because people have a lifecycle and economy has growth cycle.Metaphor Freq.Entities Chen2zhang3 (growth) 67Shuai1tui4 (regres-sion/decay)8Chen2zhang3chi2 (growthperiod)2Bing4zhuang4 (symptoms) 1Ming4ma4i (lifeblood) 2Quality Shuai1tui2 (weaken and de-generate)1Functions Chen2zhang3 (grow) 21Shuai1tui4 (to becomeweaker)5Fu4shu1 (regain conscious-ness)9E4hua4 (deteriorate) 4Hui1fu4 (recover) 1Thus, for ECONOMY IS A PERSON, the map-ping principle is postulated to have to do with thelife cycle of a person (and not, for example, themental health of a person) because of the frequentoccurrence of the lexical item ?chengzhang?
(growth).Table 2: ECONOMY IS A BUILDING (102 in-stances)M.P.
: Economy is building because buildings involve a(physical) structure and economy involves an (abstract)structure.Metaphors FrequencyEntities jianshe (construction) 39jiegou (structure) 20jiqu (foundation) 15zhichu (pillar) 1genji (foundation) 2guimo (model) 5chuxing (model) 1Qualities wengu (firm) 2wending (stable) 8Functions chongjian (re-build) 9In the case of ECONOMY IS A BUILDING themapping principle is postulated to having to dowith structure, and not for example, leaky plumb-ing.
This is an interesting case because, as men-tioned above, Ahrens (2002) examined IDEA IS ABUILDING and postulated that the mapping prin-ciple also had to do with structure (i.e the structureof a building and the structure of ideas).
As Ahrens(2002) points out, it is not always the case that dif-ferent target domains use the same aspect of asource domain.
For example, the source domain ofFOOD is used differently for IDEAS (to expressthe notion of digestion and processing) as com-pared with LOVE which uses FOOD to comparedifferent tastes to different feelings.Table 3: ECONOMY IS A COMPETITION (40 in-stances)M.P.
: Economy is competition because a competitioninvolves physical and mental strength to defeat an op-ponent and an economy requires financial strength inorder to prosper against other economies.Metaphors FrequencyEntities shili (actual strength) 14jingzheng (competition) 12jingzhengyoushi (advantagein competition)3ruozhe (the weak one) 2jingzhengli (power of com-petition)3ruoshi (a disadvantagedsituation)1qiangguo (a powerful nation) 1douzheng  (a struggle) 2tuishi (a declining tendency) 1Function shuaibai (to lose) 1Thus, for ECONOMY IS A COMPETITION, theemphasis is on the strength of participant in orderto defeat the opponent.Table 4: ECONOMY IS WAR (23 instances)M.P.
: Economy is war because war involves a violentcontest for territorial gain and the economy involves avigorous contest for financial gain.Metaphors FrequencyEntities qinglue (invasion) 4zhan (battle) 2laobing (veteran) 1gungfangzhan (defend andattack battle)1chelue (tactics) 1daquan (immense power) 4Qualities qianchuangbaikong (onethousand boils and a hundredholes; holes all over)1Functions quanlichongchi (to dash withfull force)1guashuai (to take command) 5(daquan) chaozai shoushang(to grasp the power)1xisheng (sacrifice) 1Xishengping (victims) 1In ECONOMY IS WAR, there is no clear-cut in-stance of a frequent mapping.
We suggest that thisis because WAR is a subset of the source domainof COMPETITION (i.e.
a violent contest) in theSUMO representation, as discussed below.In short, the corpora data support the CMmodel?
s hypothesis that there is a subset of lin-guistic expressions within a particular source do-main that map to a target domain.
It is not the casethat ?anything goes?
.
In fact, the corpora data pre-sented above, suggest an even more restricted view?
that there are usually one or two linguistic ex-pressions that frequently map between the sourceand target domains and ?drive?
the motivating re-lationship between them.
In the next section, welook at whether or not the source domain knowl-edge can be defined a priori through an upper on-tology such as SUMO.5 Defining Source Domain Knowledgewith Shared Upper OntologyThe research on Shared Upper Ontology offers apotential answer to the challenge of how to defineand verify the structured knowledge in a sourcedomain.
A shared upper ontology is designed torepresent the shared knowledge structure of intelli-gent agents and allows knowledge exchangeamong them.
In computational application, it is aninfrastructure for knowledge engineering.
In cog-nitive terms, we can view it as a candidate for hedescription of shared human knowledge.
In thispaper, we adopt SUMO.In SUMO, conceptual terms are definedand situated in a tree-taxonomy.
In addition, a setof first order inference rules can be attached toeach conceptual node to represent the knowledgecontent encoded on that term.
The conceptualterms of SUMO are roughly equivalent to thesource domains in MP theory.
Hence the well-defined SUMO conceptual terms are candidates forknowledge representation of the source domain inthe MP theory of metaphor.
In other words, SUMOprovides a possible answer the question of howsource domain knowledge is represented and howdoes this knowledge allows the mapping in con-ceptual metaphors.
We examine how this might bepossible by looking at two conceptual terms thatare represented in SUMO that related to our sourcedomains ?
CONTEST and ORGANISM.Economy is ContestFirst, we found that what we intuitively termed as?competition?
above has a corresponding ontologi-cal node of Contest.
The term Contest is docu-mented as ?A SocialInteraction where the agentand patient are CognitiveAgents who are trying todefeat one another.?
Its only inference rule isquoted here:(=> (instance ?CONTEST Contest) (exists(?AGENT1 ?AGENT2 ?PURP1 ?PURP2) (and(agent ?CONTEST ?AGENT1) (agent ?CONTEST?AGENT2) (hasPurposeForAgent ?CONTEST?PURP1 ?AGENT1) (hasPurposeForAgent?CONTEST ?PURP2 ?AGENT2) (not (equal?AGENT1 ?AGENT2)) (not (equal ?PURP1?PURP2)))))The knowledge inference rule stipulates that eachinstance of Contest is carried out by two agents,each has his own non-equal purpose.
This is ex-actly the source knowledge needed for the meta-phor mapping.
When the conceptual metaphor islinguistically realized, lexical expressions are thenchosen to represent the conceptual terms of bothpurposeful agents, and conflicting purposes for theagents.
Notice that in contest, as in economy, it isnot necessary to have only one winner.
There maybe multiple winners and perhaps no winners.
Inother words, the agents?
purpose may not be con-flicting.
But the purposes-for-agent are definitelydifferent for each agent.In addition to the 40 instances of economymetaphors involving contest.
There are also 23instances of metaphors involving War.
In thesecases, it is interesting to observe that the centralconcept is still the conflicting purposes (one?
s gainis another?
s loss) of the warring party.
This is con-firmed by the shared ontology.
In SUMO, a War isa kind of ViolentContest, which in term is a kindof Contest.Contest?ViolentContest?WarThe term War is defined as ?A military confronta-tion between two or more Nations or Organizationswhose members are Nations.?
And the term Vio-lentContest is defined as ?Contest where one par-ticipant attempts to physically injure anotherparticipant.?
As can be seen from the definition andthe metaphoric uses involving War, the ontologicalsource domain knowledge is not involved.In fact, when examined more closely, it isclear that when the domain knowledge of War isused, it either further specifies the conflicting pur-poses by elaborating on the quality and manner ofthe conflict, or elaborating on the agent partici-pants as combatants.
In other words, Economy isWar is not a different mapping.
It is subsumed un-der the mapping of Economy is Contest, and addedelaborations on the participants.By carefully examining the mapping fromsource domain knowledge based on SUMO, wediscovered that not only mapping is indeed basedon a priori source domain knowledge.
We also dis-covered that a metaphor can often involve addi-tional and more specified terms within a domain.In these cases, no additional mapping is required.The same structured domain knowledge is used,and the subsumed terms offers only elaborationsbased on the same knowledge structure.It is appropriate to note here that based onWordNet to SUMO mapping, economy is a So-cialInteraction, and Contest is a subclass of So-cialInteraction.
In other words, economy is arelated concept to Contest, although it does notbelong to that conceptual domain.
That a metaphorchooses a related domain is to be expected.Economy is OrganismAmong metaphors involving economies,one source domain stands out as being far removedconceptually.
These are the metaphors involvingOrganism.
We arrived at this conclusion by re-examining the examples that we generalized asEconomy is a Person in the previous section.
Aftercloser examination with the help of SUMO knowl-edge representation, we found that the linguisticrealizations of this mapping do not involve anyknowledge that is specific to Human.
In fact, itonly involves the notion of a life cycle, which isthe defining knowledge involving an Organism.Organism is defined in SUMO as ?a livingindividual, including all Plants and Animals.?
Andthe crucial knowledge encoded in of the attachedinference rules follows:=> (and (instance ?ORGANISM Organism) (agent?PROCESS ?ORGANISM)) (holdsDuring(WhenFn ?PROCESS) (attribute ?ORGANISMLiving)))The above inference rule encodes the knowledgethat ?An organism is the agent of a living processthat holds over a duration.?
In other words, havinga life cycle is the defining knowledge of an Or-ganism.
This turns out to be the source domainknowledge that is involved in the mapping.It is interesting to observe, though this isnot encoded by SUMO, that from a Darwinian per-spective, the Purpose of an Organism as an Agentis to prolong his own life cycle.
We found that inactual linguistic data, when the above two meta-phors are used simultaneously, it is only when im-proving the life cycle (Economy is Organism) isincorporated as the PurposeForAgent (Economy isContest).
In other words, the source domainknowledge is robust in conceptual metaphor andcan be automatically mapped to and merged.6 ConclusionIn this paper, we propose an ontology-based andcorpus-driven approach towards predicting lexicalmeaning of conceptual metaphors.
Our theory isthus formally constrained.
We also verified ourfindings with examination of corpora data.
In thefinal version of this paper, we will demonstratehow the process of establishing mapping principlesand deriving metaphorical meaning can be semi-automaticized based on both the SUMO ontologi-cal databases and corpora data.
Such a process hasimportant implications both in cognitive explana-tion of conceptual metaphors and in the applicationof SUMO to predict figurative meaning in meta-phorical uses.AcknowledgmentsThis study is partially supported both by a NSCproject ?Sense and Sense-Ability?, as well as aNDAP project ?Linguistic Anchoring.?
We wouldlike to thank Adam Pease of Teknowledge, theACL workshop reviewers, as well as colleagues ofthe two above projects, for their comments.
Anyremaining errors are our own.ReferencesAhrens, K. 2002.
When Love is not Digested: Un-derlying Reasons for Source to Target DomainPairing in the Contemporary Theory of Meta-phor.
In YuChau E. Hsiao (ed.)
Proceeding ofthe First Cognitive Linguistics Conference, pp273-302.
Taipei: Cheng-Chi University.Farrar, S., Lewis, W., and Langendoen, T. 2002.
ACommon Ontology for Linguistic Concepts.
InProceedings of the Knowledge TechnologiesConference, Seattle, Washington, March 10-13,2002.
(available athttp://ontology.teknowledge.com/#pubs)Gentner, D. and G. Wolff.
2000.
?Evidence forRole-Neutral Initial Processing of Metaphors.
?Journal of Experimental Psychology, 26, 529-541.Lakoff, G. 1993.
?The Contemporary Theory ofMetaphor.?
In Andrew Ortony (ed.)
Metaphorand Thought (2nd ed.).
Cambridge: CambridgeUniversity Press.
P 202-251.Martin J., 1992.
Metabank: a Knowledge Base ofMetaphoric Language Conventions.
Computa-tional Intelligence, 10, pg.
134-149.McGlone, M. S. 1996.
?Conceptual Metaphors andFigurative Language Interpretation: Food forThought??
Journal of Memory and Language,35, 544-565.Niles, I.
2003.
Mapping WordNet to the SUMOOntology.
Teknowledge Technical Report.Niles, I., & Pease, A.
2001.
Toward a StandardUpper Ontology.
Proceedings of the 2nd Interna-tional Conference on Formal Ontology in In-formation Systems (FOIS-2001).Pease, A.
& Niles, I.
2002.
IEEE Standard UpperOntology: A Progress Report.
Knowledge Engi-neering Review, Special Issue on Ontology andAgents, Volume 17.Sevcenko, M. 2003.
Online Presentation of an Up-per Ontology.
In Proceedings of Znalosti 2003,Ostrava, Czech Republic, February 19-21, 2003.On-line ResourcesAcademia Sinica Balanced Corpushttp://www.sinica.edu.tw/SinicaCorpus/English-Chinese Ontology/WordNet Interface(http://ckip.iis.sinica.edu.tw/CKIP/ontology/).SUMO (Suggested Upper Merged Ontology)http://ontology.teknowledge.com)
