A confidence-based framework for disambiguating geographic termsErik Rauch, Michael Bukatin, and Kenneth BakerMetaCarta, Inc.875 Massachusetts Avenue, 6th FloorCambridge, MA 02139{rauch,mishka,bakerkj}@metacarta.comAbstractWe describe a purely confidence-based geo-graphic term disambiguation system that cru-cially relies on the notion of ?positive?
and?negative?
context and methods for combiningconfidence-based disambiguation with mea-sures of relevance to a user?s query.1 IntroductionMany questions about geographic term disambiguationare standardly handled in a statistical framework: for ex-ample, we can ask that, in the absence of contextual in-formation, with what probability does the word Madisonrefer to a person (e.g.
James Madison), an organization(e.g.
Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan), or a place(e.g.
Madison, Wisconsin), and if no other disambigua-tion alternative exists, we can expect these three numbersto sum to 1 (i.e.
behave like probabilities).However, there are many other questions where astrictly probability-based framework is less appropriate.In particular, much of the information that could be usedto disambiguate spatial references in natural languagetext is strongly non-local in character, and as we increasethe amount of this background information, eventuallywe reach the point when the amount of training data perparameter is so low that there is no repeatable experimentto base probabilities on.In such cases, ?probabilities?
are effectively used as astand-in for what is really our confidence in one judgmentor another.
In this paper we describe some of the meth-ods used in a purely confidence-based geographic termdisambiguation system that crucially relies on the notionof ?positive?
and ?negative?
context.Far more information is contained in unstructured text(such as the Web and message traffic) than in structureddatabases, so automatically processing ambiguous geo-graphic references unlocks a large amount of informa-Figure 1: MetaCarta Geographic Text Search interface,showing query results ranked and plotted on a map.tion.
Adding spatial dimensions to the document searchsystems requires new algorithms for determining the rele-vance of documents.
We describe methods for combiningconfidence-based disambiguation with measures of rele-vance to a user?s query.It has become clear after several decades of artificialintelligence research that automated general natural lan-guage understanding is not feasible yet.
However, wehave been able to make progress by restricting our ef-fort to the well-defined domain of geographic concepts,using statistical methods on extremely large corpora.
Tocope with billions of documents, we have built fast al-gorithms for extracting and disambiguating geographicFigure 2: The distribution of occurrences of a term canidentify geographic areas that it is relevant to.
This ex-ample shows the distribution of the word wine in Europe.information and fast database algorithms specifically forinformation which has a spatial component.One form of information retrieval made possible byextracting geographic meaning in large corpora is geo-graphic text search.
Users are presented with an interfacecontaining a traditional text search form combined with amap.
They can zoom in on areas of the world that are ofinterest, and results of textual queries are plotted on themap (Figure 1).
Other forms of data exploration are alsomade possible, such as exploring the spatial density pat-tern of documents satisfying a textual query (Figure 2).In Section 2 we explore challenges of finding geo-graphic meaning in natural language texts and give ex-amples of typical ambiguities.
In Section 3 we introducesome of our methods for determining geographic mean-ing in natural language.
In Section 4 we describe someof the methods of determining geographic meaning dur-ing real-time processing.
In Section 5 we describe someof our training methods.
In Section 6 we describe meth-ods for combining confidence-based disambiguation withmeasures of relevance to a user?s query.2 Challenges of finding geographicmeaning in natural language textLike other references in natural language text, geographicreferences are often highly under-specified and ambigu-ous.
To take an extreme example, when encountering areference to Al Hamra, the task is to determine which ofthe 65 places in the world with that name is being referredto, or even whether a place is being referred to at all, forthe phrase also means red in Arabic.
The same applies tothe more than two dozen US towns named Madison.
Infact, the majority of references to places are ambiguousin this way.Human beings have a remarkable ability to derive use-ful information from ambiguous and under-specified ref-erences using real-world knowledge and experience, byderiving fuzzy rules from experience and knowing whento apply them.
MetaCarta imitates this process usingcombinations of heuristics and data mining.
For exam-ple, when encountering a mention of Al Hamra, a hu-man analyst may notice that the rest of the document isfocused on a region of Oman.
Even if there is no men-tion of Oman itself, a mention of the nearby place Safil inthe same document makes it likely that the Al Hamra inOman is referred to.
Even though there is another placenamed Safil in Iran, the towns of Safil and Al Hamra inOman are close to each other, while there is no Al Hamraclose to Safil, Iran.People also apply real-world knowledge gained inother contexts: they know, for example, that a refer-ence to a place called Madison, in the absence of a state,is more likely to refer to Madison, Wisconsin than thesmaller Madison, Iowa; and they know that James Madi-son and the Madison family do not refer to places at all.Similarly they know that Ishihara does not refer to aplace, even though there is a Japanese town of that name,if a government minister named Ishihara is being men-tioned.Moreover, much of the information people use to dis-ambiguate references is not contained within the docu-ment itself, but is in the form of experience gained fromreading many other documents.
When encountering aname, people have various associations with the uses ofthis name they have seen before, and have a rough idea ofhow often it referred to places.3 Methods for determining geographicmeaning in natural languageMetaCarta has been able to imitate many aspects of thiscommon-sense process because of the well-defined, low-dimensional space of geographic concepts.
We beginwith a gazetteer containing several million name-pointand name-region pairs, and the enclosure relationship be-tween regions and points.
A given name n may referto several points or regions, or refer to a non-geographicconcept.
To deal with ambiguity, for every potential ref-erence of a name n to a point p, we estimate c(p, n), theconfidence that n really refers to p. The relevance of thedocument to each mentioned location must also be de-termined, in order to present the results that best satisfythe need for both correctness and relevance to a query, asdescribed in Section 6.There are two main phases of processing involved inthe extraction of geographic information: training onlarge corpora, and real-time processing of a document.In order to index large volumes of documents in areasonable time, documents must be processed at a rateof at least a hundred documents per second on a sin-gle workstation.
This constraint affects the choice ofheuristics used.
Some of the methods of determininggeographic meaning during real-time processing are de-scribed in Section 4.The training phase requires some seed system capableof extracting the geographic information or, in the limit-ing case, some manually grounded documents.
The qual-ity of training depends on the quality of the seed, so asthe system for the real-time processing of documents im-proves, we iterate the training process.
Some details ofthe training process are described in Section 5.4 Real-time processing of documents4.1 Identifying candidate placesWhen processing a document, we begin by identifyingpotentially geographic references.
For each, we identifyall known candidates for the meaning of that reference.For example, a reference to ?Madison?
can potentiallymean any of 22 points with that name, or none of them.The main source of geographic references are namesfrom the high-quality MetaCarta gazetteer.
See (Axel-rod, 2003) for the process of building and updating thisgazetteer.
The procedure used to obtain realistic initialconfidences associated with the gazetteer names is de-scribed in Section 5.1.We mention some of the alternative sources of poten-tially geographic references here.
We have capabilitiesallowing to match US postal addresses and pass them tothird-party geolocation software producing a coordinatefor the address.Coordinates such as 38?01?10.5"N121?44?48.8"W or 56.51?N 25.86?E arematched.
We match some of JINTACCS (Depart-ment of the Army, 1990) message traffic formatssuch as 163940N 1062920E (means 16?39?40?N106?29?20?E).The matches are then assigned initial confidences,and disambiguated using local and non-local informationwithin the document.4.2 Geographic disambiguation by local linguisticcontextSimilarly to other statistical NLP efforts, we use the lo-cal document context that a potentially geographic nameoccurs in.
For example, the words city of or mayor of pre-ceding or the words community college following a namelike Madison are strong positive indicators of the geo-graphic nature of this name.
At the same time, the wordsMr., Dr., or a common first name preceding or the wordswill arrive following a potential city name are strong neg-ative indicators that the name in question is geographic.We use the mixture of data mining procedures de-scribed in Section 5.2 and domain knowledge reposito-ries containing context strings such as first names to formthe sets of contexts we are using and to determine theirstrength as positive and negative indicators.Heuristics then adjust the confidence cgeo(n) that nrefers to any geographic location (though not whether itrefers to one of several synonymous locations) accordingto the nature and strength of these indicators.Other local clues, such as absence of upper-case let-ters in the name itself or the resemblance of the name toan acronym have also proven useful to further adjust thevalues of cgeo.The values of cgeo are then modified by non-local in-formation as described below.4.3 Geographic disambiguation by spatial patternsof geographic references in documentsWe have found that there is a high degree of spatial cor-relation in geographic references that are in textual prox-imity.
This applies not only to points that are nearby,such as Madison and Milwaukee, but also to the situationwhen points are enclosed by regions, e.g.
Madison andWisconsin.
This correlation between geographic and tex-tual distance is considered in estimating the confidencethat a name refers to a point.Some of our heuristics increase c(p, n) based on howmany and which points (and enclosing regions) are men-tioned in the same document as n and their proximity.We make use of the characteristics of the nearby loca-tions, and weight their influence as a decreasing functionof geographic relationships to p and textual relationshipsto n. c(p, n) is then increased by a saturating function ofthese influences.4.4 Domain knowledge: population heuristicsIn addition, population data in the gazetteer is also used.A place with a high population is more likely to be men-tioned than a place with a lower one.
Thus when disam-biguating multiple referents with the same name, the pop-ulation of each is considered.
The confidence of a place pis decreased by an amount proportional to the logarithmof the ratio of the population of p to the population of allplaces with the name n.4.5 Relative referencesUntil now we discussed the processing of stand-alone ge-ographic references.
We also process relative geographicreferences such as 15 miles northeast of Portland.
Thisrelative reference is resolved in correspondence with thedisambiguation of its anchor reference, Portland.
If wedecided that Portland refers to Portland, Oregon withconfidence c, then we assume that 15 miles northeast ofPortland refers to the point 15 miles northeast of Port-land, Oregon with confidence f(c), where f(c) is greaterthan c, since the presence of a well-defined relative refer-ence serves as an additional linguistic clue.4.6 Temporal informationWhile not strictly a geographic issue, we mentionhere that the system also extracts temporal informa-tion from natural language documents.
Currently werecognize military date/time group Zulu formats (Com-bined Communications-Electronics Board, 1983) such as301535Z AUG 01 (means August 30, 2001 15:35:00Zulu).5 Training5.1 Determining the geographic significance ofgazetteer namesThe methods for disambiguating geographic terms de-scribed above can also be exploited at the level of the cor-pus, despite the fact that the data used for training are un-tagged and therefore noisy.
Since the real-time documentprocessing system is high throughput, it can be appliedto a training corpus consisting of a few hundred milliondocuments.If a name n is often given a high confidence of refer-ring to a point p, then n is likely to refer to p even in theabsence of other evidence in the document.
Thus, eachname-point pair n, p is given an initial confidence whichis the average confidence assigned to an instance in thetraining corpus.This initial confidence is then used as a starting pointand modified by the other heuristics described above toobtain confidence for a name instance in a specific doc-ument during real-time document processing.
Thus thetraining process is iterative.5.2 Data mining of geographically significant locallinguistic contextsWe currently use data mining on tagged corpora to learnthe contexts in which geographic and non-geographic ref-erences occur, the words and phrases leading up to andtrailing the name n. The tagged corpora were obtainedusing the Alembic tagger (Day et al, 1997).
The accu-mulated statistics allow us to determine whether a spe-cific context is a positive or negative indicator of a termbeing geographic, and the strength of this particular indi-cator.
For any context C, an adjustment is applied to theconfidence which is a nonlinear function of the probabil-ity of a geographic reference occurring in C in the taggedcorpus.6 RelevanceThe addition of geographic dimensions to information re-trieval means that in addition to the relevance of docu-ments to a textual query, the relevance to the places men-tioned in those documents must also be considered in or-der to rank the documents.
The two kinds of relevance,traditional textual query relevance Rw and georelevanceRg , must be properly balanced to return documents rele-vant to a user?s query.
The traditional textual query rel-evance is obtained using standard techniques (Robertsonand Jones, 1997).Georelevance is based on both the geographic confi-dence of the place names used to place the document onthe map, and the emphasis of the place name in the doc-ument.
Emphasis is affected by the position Pn of thename in the document, and the prominence Bn.
The latteris a function of whether it is in the title or header, whetherit is emphasized or rendered in a large font, and otherclues related to the nature and formatting of a document.This is similar to term relevance heuristics in informationretrieval (Robertson and Jones, 1997), but the pattern ofemphasis of geographic references is somewhat different.The function that assigns the emphasis component that isa function of in-document position is somewhat differentthan those usually used.
It decreases from a maximum atthe beginning of the document to a low number near theend of a long document, but increases near the bottom ofthe document to account for the increased relevance of in-formation in footers.
The frequency of the name Fn in thedocument is considered in a similar way to standard infor-mation retrieval techniques (Robertson and Jones, 1997).Emphasis is also a function of the number of other ge-ographic references S in the document.
This is based onthe assumption that a document does not have an unlim-ited amount of relevance to ?spend?
on places.
Thus, aplace mentioned in a document with many others is likelyto be less relevant.
Once emphasis E(Pn, Bn, Fn, S) iscalculated, it is multiplied by geoconfidence Cg to obtainthe georelevance Rg .We also compute a georelevance-like function for eachlocation that could be referenced by a document.
It variesas a function of character position in the document and isindependent of geoconfidence.Finally, the textual query relevance and georelevanceare balanced as follows.
The more terms m are in theuser?s query, the higher the weight Ww we assign to theterm component of the query; however we use a functionWw that saturates at a maximal weight M (.5 < M < 1).The term relevance weight is defined asWw(m) = .5 +m?
1m(M ?
.5)Georelevance and term relevance Rw are then com-bined as (1?Ww(m))Rg +Ww(m)Rw.7 ConclusionThe successful deployment of an industrial high-volumesystem partially based on the methods described here,even in the absence of large amounts of tagged data, hasshown that many elements of common sense relating togeographic disambiguation can be encoded as heuristicsin a confidence-based framework.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Andra?s Kornai and John Frankfor fruitful suggestions and discussions regarding ex-traction of geographic information and to acknowledgeMetaCarta team involved in other aspects of GeographicText Search.ReferencesAmittai Axelrod.
2003.
On building a high performancegazetteer database, this volume.Combined Communications-Electronics Board.
1983.Communication Instructions General (Unclassi-fied) ACP 121(F), London.
Available via URLhttp://www.dtic.mil/jcs/j6/cceb/acps/acp121f.pdfDavid Day, John Aberdeen, Lynette Hirschman, RobynKozierok, Patricia Robinson and Marc Vilain.
1997.Mixed-Initiative Development of Language Process-ing Systems.
In Proceedings of Fifth Conference onApplied Natural Language Processing, Association forComputational Linguistics, Washington, DC.Department of the Army.
1990.
FM 24-33.
Communica-tions techniques: electronic counter-countermeasures,Appendix A. Washington, DC.
Available via URLhttp://www.fas.org/irp/doddir/army/fm24-33/fm2433.htmS.E.
Robertson and K. Sparck Jones.
1997.
Simple,proven approaches to text retrieval.
University ofCambridge Computer Laboratory Technical Report,May 1997.
