A Disambiguation Method for Japanese Compound VerbsKiyoko Uchiyama and Shun IshizakiGraduate School of Media and GovernanceKeio University5322 Endo, Fujisawa-shi, Kanagawa, 252-8520, JAPAN{kiyoko, ishizaki}@sfc.keio.ac.jpAbstractThe purpose of this study is to construct asemantic analysis method for disambiguatingJapanese compound verbs.
Japanese speakersproduce a rich variety of compound verbs,making it difficult to process them by computer.We construct a method employing 110disambiguation rules based on the semanticfeatures of the first verb of a compound andsyntactic patterns consisting of co-occurrencebetween verbs and nouns.
The disambiguationrules are evaluated by applying them tocompound verbs in the dictionary.
Theobtained accuracy is 87.19% for our rules.
Thisresult shows the advantage of our method.1 IntroductionThe treatment of multiword expressions (MWEs)has attracted much interest as an important issue(Sag et al 2002).
Japanese has diverse types ofMWEs and there are difficulties in processing them(Baldwin and Bond 2002).
In those studies, MWEsare defined as a ?word with spaces?
in English and?idiosyncratic interpretations that cross wordboundaries?
in Japanese.
Verb particles as one typeof MWE in English have been studied (Villavicencioand Copestake 2002).
We predict that verb particlesin English and compound verbs in Japanese havecommonalities in terms of ambiguity and semanticconstraints.
For example, the English particle ?up?has both an aspectual (?finish up writing?
cf.?kaki-owaru?)
and a spatial meaning (?go up thestairs?
cf.
?kake-agaru?
), which is equivalent to thesecond verb in Japanese compound verbs.
Weinvestigate Japanese compound verbs (JCVs) andextract semantic constraints for the purpose ofapplying them to machine translation.JCVs consist of two verbs, the first verb (V1)and the second verb (V2).
V1 always appears in thecontinuative form.
In this paper, we discuss only?Verb-Verb?
JCVs, which are a composition of twonative Japanese verbs, for example oshi-ageru ?pushup?, tabe-sugiru ?eat too much?
and so on.
JCVs ofV1-V2 form are frequently used for expressingcomplex motion, elaborated phenomena andemotional state.
However, JCVs have highproductivity, a great number of ambiguities andsemantic constraints between each constituent.Examples of correlation between semantic constraintand ambiguities of JCVs are given in (1).
(1) a. nage-ageru ?throw up?, keri-ageru ?kick up?,mochi-ageru ?lift up?, oshi-ageru ?push up?b.
yude-ageru ?finish boiling?, mushi-ageru?finish steaming?, yaki-ageru ?finish baking?Ageru ?lift?
has multiple meanings when it appearsin the V2 position of a JCV.
A directional compoundverb in (1a) is formed by compounding ageru ?lift?as V2 with a verb of motion like nageru ?throw?
andkeru ?kick?
as V1.
Conversely, an aspectualcompound verb in (1b) is formed by combiningageru ?lift?
as V2 with a verb of cooking processlike yuderu ?boil?
and musu ?steam?
as V1.
Thereare a small number of such ambiguous verbs whichappear as V2.
Ambiguous JCVs are generated bycompounding various instances of V1 with anambiguous V2, which makes it difficult to processon computer.The analysis of JCVs has been discussed in thefield of linguistics and natural language processing.In linguistics, JCVs have been studied mainly interms of syntax (Kageyama 1999) and constraints onsemantic structures (Matsumoto 1996, 1998).Himeno (2000) made a semantic analysisconcerning the types of V2s which have multiplemeanings.
She classified JCVs by the meaning oftheir V2.
However, she confounded the meaning ofV1 with that of V2 in her classification.
In order toclarify the semantic constraints between V1 and V2,we need to analyze each constituent individually.In natural language processing, Shirai (1998)proposed a method of building valency patterns forJCVs by compiling a Japanese and English corpus.This approach, in which whole compound verbs areregistered in an electronic dictionary, can improvethe translation rate of the system.
However, it isinefficient to register all the compound verbs inadvance.
For that reason, it is desirable to develop aframework for understanding JCVs by processingeach constituent.Based on this background, we propose a methodemploying rules which utilize semantic features andsyntactic information to clarify the semanticconstraints for disambiguation of JCVs.In this paper, we take two steps in order toconstruct a disambiguation method.
The first step isto identify the meaning of V1 using by rules whichan MT system or other lexical database should havealready.
The second step is to classify JCVs intosemantic clusters and extract commonalities ofsemantic features on V1 (semantic information) andverb complements (syntactic information).
We buildrules using this obtained semantic and syntacticinformation.
This is the major innovation of thisstudy.
The proposed method based ondisambiguation rules has the advantage of being ableto analyze new compound verbs not in the dictionary.Since the semantic restrictions of JCVs are similar tothose of phrasal verbs in English (Villavicencio andCopestake 2002), there might be a possibility ofapplying our method to machine translation.The rest of the paper is structured as follows.Section 2 describes the definition, ambiguities andsemantic relations of JCVs.
Section 3 shows analysisresults.
The semantic analysis method is explained inSection 4.
The evaluation of this method is discussedin Section 5.
The conclusion of our study andimplication for future work are stated at the end.2  Ambiguities of JCVs2.1 Types of AmbiguitiesKageyama (1993) has proposed that JCVs canbe analyzed by the argument structure of eachconstituent and divided into two types: syntacticcompounds and lexical compounds.
Lexicalcompounds have semantic constraints and arelimited to lexically specified combinations, whereassyntactic compounds are basically compositionaland have no lexical idiosyncrasies .We do not differentiate these two types inadvance, because our method may be also useful foridentifying them.
There are two types of ambiguityin JCVs: ambiguities within lexical compounds andambiguities between lexical compounds andsyntactic compounds.Lexical compounds containing an ambiguousV2 (as in example (1)) are examined in this study.Semantic constraints govern the pairs of verbs whichmay be compounded.
The semantic features of V1play a key role in identifying the meaning of V2.
Wefocus on extracting commonalities of semanticfeatures from V1 in order to disambiguate V2.On the other hand, some JCVs are ambiguous,because they may be either syntactic or lexicalcompounds depending on context.
Syntacticinformation is important in disambiguating this typeof JCV.
Example (2) indicates that JCVs with thesame morphology change their meanings dependingon specific context.
(2) a. Basu wa basutei o hashiri-sugita .
?The bus ran past the bus stop.?b.
Kare wa shiai no tame ni hashiri-sugita.
?He ran too much because of the game.
?V2 sugiru in the lexical compound in (2a) meanspath of motion (?go past?
), but in the syntacticcompound in (2b) it denotes excessiveness (?toomuch?).
As sugiru is most commonly used as acompositional V2 (?too much?
), it is difficult toidentify the difference between (2a) and (2b).
Sincesentence (2a) includes a word indicating the placelike basutei ?bus stop?, we can distinguish thedifference between the lexical compound (2a) andthe syntactic compound (2b) by co-occurring words.We identify the meaning of such JCVs usingsyntactic information gained from co-occurrence andverb complements.2.2 Ambiguities of V2We classified ambiguities of V2 into three semanticclusters: aspectual, spatial and adverbial (Niimi1987).
An ambiguous V2 is defined as a word withmultiple meanings which overlap several semanticclusters.
This framework makes it easier todistinguish the difference in meaning for anambiguous V2.We listed all the ambiguous V2, i.e.
thefollowing 20 words, based on the previous study(Himeno 2001).agaru ?go up?, ageru ?lift?, otosu ?drop?, kakeru?hang?, kakaru ?hang onto?, kaeru ?go back?,kaesu ?send back?, iru ?enter?, komu ?insert?,sugiru ?go past?, tatsu ?stand?, tateru ?makestand?, tsuku ?be attached?, tsukeru ?attach?, dasu?put out?, kiru ?cut?, toosu ?pierce?, nuku ?pullout?, tobasu ?scatter?, wataru ?go across?For the first step of analysis, we extracted 10ambiguous words at random, agaru ?go up?, ageru?lift?, otosu ?drop?, kakeru ?hang?, kakaru ?hangonto?, kaeru ?go back?, kaesu ?send back?, iru?enter?, komu ?insert?
and sugiru ?go past?.
Table 1shows examples of ambiguities of V2 as JCVs.V2 Aspectual  Spatial  Adverbialagaru?go up?yude-agaru?finish boiling?tobi-agaru?
jump up?furue-agaru?be terrified?kakaru?hang onto?ochi-kakaru?be dropping?kiri-kakaru?slash at?otosu?drop?kiri-otosu?cut off?ii-otosu?forget to say?kaeru?go back?uchi-kaesu?hit back?waki-kaeru?be highlyexcitted?sugiru?go past?toori-sugiru?go past?tabe-sugiru?eat  toomuch?komu?insert?hairi-komu?go into?fuke-komu?become old?Table 1.
Types of ambiguities of V2We are not concerned here with disambiguationof the meanings within a single cluster.
For example,tabe-kakeru ?already begin to eat?
andhashiri-kakeru ?be about to run?
are both classifiedas members of the aspectual cluster.
JCVs of theadverbial cluster which include naosu ?fix?
and au?fit?
seem to be similar cases.
Such differencesare not analyzed in this study.2.3 Criteria for Classification of Semantic ClusterIn order to classify JCVs into semantic clusters, weneed to establish certain criteria.
We define thesyntactic roles and semantic relations betweeneach constituent as criteria for classification into asemantic cluster.
Each constituent of a JCV hassyntactic roles such as dependency to a noun phraseand suffix usage.
We refer to any JCV componentverb that requires a complement as a main verb, andany suffixing component as a subsidiary verb.We also need to examine how the two verbs arerelated each other within a JCV.
The semanticrelation classes are assigned to the JCV constituentsrespectively based on Tagashira?s (1986) study.
As theparaphrasing of V2 facilitates understanding of thesesemantic relations, we investigate them byparaphrasing.The ambiguous JCVs were classified into threetypes based on the syntactic roles of V2:complementation, modification and directionalmotion.
In complementation, V2 plays acomplementary role to V1, and can be paraphrasedusing other aspectual words such as hajimeru ?start?and owaru ?finish?.
In modification, the V2 modifies,so we can paraphrase V2 with an adverb.
Directionalmotion consists of two main verbs.
The V1 expressesthe manner of motion, and V2 the direction.We describe the semantic relations of JCVs as?SEM?, the syntactic roles of V1 as ?SYN?
and theparaphrase as ?PAR?, with examples as follows.
Thesymbol ?/?
means ?or?.
The criteria for classificationinto each semantic cluster are given in (3).
(3) Criteria for classificationa.
Aspectual clusterSEM:  V1:motion/activity, V2:aspectSYN:  Complementation(V1:main verb, V2:subsidiary verb)PAR: ?V1 suru koto ga/o owaru/oeru/hajimaru/hajimeru?arai-ageru= arau koto o oeru ?finish washing?nomi-dasu= nomu koto o hajimeru  ?start to drink?b.
Spatial clusterSEM:  V1:manner, V2:motionSYN:  Directional motion(V1:main verb, V2:main verb)PAR:  ?V1 shite V2 suru?tori-dasu = totte dasu ?take out?c.
Adverbial clusterSEM: V1:motion/emotional state/activityV2:intensitySYN:  Modification/Complementation(V1:main verb, V2:subsidiary verb)PAR: ?Hijouni (other adverb) V1 suru?
?V1 suru koto ga V2 suru?tabe-sugiru= taberu koto ga sugiru ?eat too much?yomi-kaesu= mouichido yomu ?read again?3 Analysis of JCVsIn order to build disambiguation rules which areapplicable to novel JCVs, we need to examine andanalyze frequency, types of semantic features andco-occurring words of JCVs not in the dictionary.3.1 Extraction of JCVsWe used data from the Mainichi Shinbun (Mainichi1993) in order to examine JCVs not in the printeddictionary (Kindaichi 1999).
The newspaper articleswere tagged by the morphological analysis systemChasen (Matsumoto et al 2000).
All occurrences of?Verb-Verb?
JCVs and non-compounded singleverbs were extracted from the tagged articles.
Table2 shows the number of tokens extracted and thenumber of tokens after duplicates had been removed.Tokens Types?Verb?
1,437,123 6,810?Verb-Verb?
18,689 5,364Table 2.
Tokens and types of JCVsThe ?Verb-Verb?
form accounts for only 1.36% ofthe total tokens, however, this type accounts for44.06% of types.
In addition, 3525 words(accounting for 65.71% of all ?Verb-Verb?
tokens)are not registered in the dictionary.
The result showsa rich variety of JCVs and difficulty of processingJCVs using a static dictionary.
829 types ofambiguous JCVs, using of the 10 ambiguous V2s,mentioned in 2.2, were found in the 3525 JCVs notin the dictionary.3.2 Semantic Features for Disambiguation of JCVsThe semantic features are necessary forrepresenting appropriate meanings of V1.
We usedRuigo Shin Jiten (Oono and Hamanishi 1989) tolabel the semantic feature.
The framework of thesemantic feature in Ruigo Shin Jiten providesenough accuracy to distinguish the meaning of V1.For instance, Ruigo Shin Jiten defines the semanticfeature of musu ?steam?
as suiji ?kitchen work?
andthat of nageru ?throw?
as dageki ?throw and hit?.These features can identify the different semanticclusters of mushi-ageru ?finish steaming?
in theaspectual cluster and nage-ageru ?throw into theair?
in the spatial cluster.
Ruigo Shin Jiten isorganized in three levels and constitutes 1000categories.
The labels from the second level, whichinclude 60 categories for verbs, are used in assigninga semantic feature to V1.
If it is difficult to identifythe meaning of V1 using the label from the secondlevel, the label from the third label is applied as thesemantic feature.4 Construction of Disambiguation Method4.1 Information for Disambiguation RulesWe analyzed semantic features of all 328 V1samong 829 target words.
We examined ambiguitiesof V1 based on the co-occurring nouns in a sentenceusing the syntactic information in IPAL verbdictionary (IPA 1987).In order to construct disambiguation rules, wetook two steps.
The first step was to disambiguatethe meaning of V1.
The second step was to clarifysemantic and syntactic information for use in thedisambiguation rules.As for the first step, we used the IPAL verbdictionary.
The IPAL verb dictionary defines themeaning of verbs using valency patterns and assignsa semantic feature from Ruigo Shin Jiten to eachentry.Initially, the co-occurring nouns and verbcomplements of JCVs were extracted from asentence.
For the purpose of examining thecorrelation between co-occurring nouns and V1, weinvestigate the valency patterns of V1 in the IPALdictionary.
For example, in the case of a sentencelike kare wa udon o uchi-ageta ?He completedmaking buckwheat noodle?, we try to find thesub-entry of utsu ?hit?
having a complement such as?kare wa?
and ?udon o?
in IPAL dictionary.
When wecan identify the sub-entry of utsu ?hit?
which fulfillsthis condition, a semantic label like seisan?production?
is selected as the semantic feature forutsu ?hit?.The second step is to classify JCVs intosemantic clusters based on the criteria as defined in2.3, and to extract commonalities of semanticfeatures on V1 within the same semantic cluster.
Forexample, JCVs such as yude-ageru ?finish boiling?,mushi-ageru ?finish steaming?
and yaki-ageru?finish baking?
classified into the aspectual cluster,have a common semantic feature: suiji ?housekeeping?.Verb complements which are not related to V1and their semantic features are used as syntacticinformation in disambiguating the meaning of V2.For instance, unazuku ?nod?
has a single meaning of?agreement?.
In combining unazuku ?nod?
withkakeru ?hang?
as V2, unazuki-kakeru causes twoambiguities.
The first meaning is the aspectualmeaning such as kare wa sono kotoba niunazuki-kaketa ?he was about to nod at what wasbeing said.?
The second meaning is a spatial onesuch as kare ni unazuki-kaketa ?I nodded at him?.
Inthis case, we need semantic features and syntacticinformation including verb complements.4.2 Disambiguation RulesIn order to construct of disambiguation rules, theJCVs were classified into two groups using theresults of the analysis in section 4.1.The rules of the first group are based on thesemantic features of V1.
For example, utsu ?hit?
hastwo meanings, ?hit?
and ?make?.
The semanticfeature of utsu ?hit?
in the first meaning is labeled asdageki ?hit and throw?
in a specific context such askare wa bouru o uchi-ageta: ?he hit the ball up?, andclassified in spatial cluster.
The second meaning isassigned suiji ?cooking?
as a semantic feature in asentence such as kare wa udon o uchi-ageta: ?hefinished making buckwheat noodles?, andcategorized in aspectual cluster.We built compounding rules for disambiguationutilizing the semantic features of Ruigo Shin Jiten.The rules are composed of the semantic features ofV1 and verb of V2 and the corresponding semanticcluster.Examples of these disambiguation rules areshown as follows.Rules based on semantic informationRule 1: IF V1 is-a cooking and V2 is ?ageru?THEN class is aspectual clusterExample: yude-ageru ?boil-raise?=> aspectual clusterParaphrase: yuderu-koto-o oeru?finish boiling?Rule 2: IF V1 is-a operation and V2 is ?ageru?THEN class is spatial clusterExample: uchi-ageru ?hit-raise?=> spatial clusterParaphrase: utte-ageru ?hit upwards?Rule 3: IF V1 is-a emotion and V2 is ?agaru?THEN class is adverbial clusterExample: furue-agaru ?tremble-go up?=> adverbial clusterParaphrase: hijouni furueru?tremble violently?Rule based on syntactic informationRule 4: IF V1 is-a action andN1 (V1's subject) is-a humanand N2 (V2's dative) is-a humanand V2 is ?kakeru?THEN class is aspectual clusterExample:kare wa kanojo ni unazuki-kaketa?he TOP she Goal nod-hang?=> aspectual clusterParaphrase:kare wa kanojo ni mukatte unazuita?He nodded at her?We extracted 829 JCVs from the newspaper articlesas target words for the analysis.
As a result ofanalyzing the 328 types of V1, 143 rules of semanticinformation and 35 rules of syntactic informationwere constructed for the disambiguation of JCVs.4.3 Expanding of Disambiguation RulesTo expand the rules comprehensively in addition tothe results in 4.1, we prepared a matrix based on ourrules.
Table 3 illustrates a part of a matrix we used.Semanticfeaturesagaru?go up?ageru?lift?kaesu?send back?kaeru?go back?sousa?operation?+ + + -seishin?mental state?+ - + +kenbun?communication?- - + -te no dousa?motion by hand?+ + + -ongaku?music?- + - -seisan?production?+ + - -hyojo?expression?- + + +Table 3.
A part of a matrix of disambiguation rulesThe lists of V2 are shown in the row headings andthe semantic features of V1 are described in thecolumn.
We verified the ability or inability of a V1having semantic feature shown in the column tocombine with the V2 in the row, and marked theability with ?+?
and the inability with ?-?.
The ruleswere compiled from the matrix and reconstructed.As the reconstruction reduced the number of rules,110 disambiguation rules were obtained.4.4 Disambiguation MethodWe propose a semantic analysis method for JCVsbased on disambiguation rules.
The following 6steps comprise our method.
(1) Input a sentence which includes JCVs(2) Tag each word in the input sentence using amorphological analysis system called Chasen(3) Extract the JCVs and their syntactic informationfrom the sentence(4) Assign a semantic feature to V1 usingco-occurring words, referring to IPAL dictionary(5) Compare the semantic feature of V1 andsyntactic information with the disambiguationrules(6) Output the semantic cluster obtained byapplication of the matching ruleThrough this procedure, we can handle novel JCVsnot in the dictionary.5 EvaluationThe JCVs in Shin Meikai Kokugo dictionary wereselected for the evaluation of our rules, because themeanings of JCVs can be judged objectively fromtheir definition.
Before the evaluation procedure, wecategorized JCVs from the dictionary into idiomatic,fused, high frequency and exception categories.Idiomatic JCVs are those where the meaning ofthe compound cannot be construed from themeaning of two verbs independently.
The meaningof fused JCVs and high frequency JCVs can beinferred from each constituent.
Fused JCVs are thosewhich are used only in a specific context.
Highfrequency JCVs can be divided into two verbssemantically and the case particle ?te?
or ?de?
can beinserted between the two verbs in certain cases.Exceptional JCVs are those with certain V2s such ashajimeru ?start?
and tsuzukeru ?continue?
which canbe processed easily using only the definition of V2.Since idiomatic and fused JCVs cannot beprocessed by our method, registering such JCVs inthe dictionary is a reasonable approach for computerimplementation.
Exceptions may also be registeredin the dictionary.
However, all high frequency JCVscan be treated with our method and are designated astarget words for evaluation.5.1 Evaluation by using Japanese DictionaryWe extracted all JCVs which included any of 10ambiguous V2s from the Japanese dictionary.
Ourtarget words for evaluation were all high frequencyJCVs.
In order to classify target words by semanticcluster, their dictionary definitions must includewords related to some semantic cluster, such asowaru ?finish?
in the case of the aspectual cluster,ue ?up?
in the spatial cluster and kurikaeshi ?again?in the adverbial cluster, etc.Table 4 indicates the result of analyzing theseJCVs.
Idiomatic and fused JCVs and the name ofsemantic cluster are abbreviated in table 4, forexample the aspectual cluster is shown as?ASPECT?, etc.
Half of the JCVs in the dictionaryare regarded as idiomatic and fused words.Target JCVs V2IDIOM&FUSED ASPECT SPACE ADVERBIagaru ?go up?
15 3 20 8ageru  ?lift?
41 5 21 2iru  ?enter?
12  5 11otosu  ?drop?
7  11 7kaesu  ?send  back?
9  16 10kaeru  ?go  back?
8  5 10kakaru ?hang onto?
7  11kakeru ?hang?
18 3 14komu ?insert?
95  58 16sugiru?go past?
3  1 5Total 215 11 162 69Table 4.
The list of JCVs in the dictionaryWe took the following steps for evaluation.
(1) Extract target JCVs for evaluation fromJapanese dictionary.
(2) Classify JCVs into each semantic cluster byreferring to their definition.
(3) Assign the semantic features of Ruigo ShinJiten to the V1 of JCVs.
In the case thatsyntactic information is needed, it can beextracted from the examples of the dictionary.
(4) Prepare test sets including the target JCV, thesemantic feature of V1 and the semanticcluster.
(5) Compare the test sets with our rules.
(6) Evaluate the accuracy of our rules.We evaluated 242 JCVs from the dictionary, andobtained 211 correct rules and 31 errors.
Thiscorresponds to a high accuracy rate of 87.19%.5.2 DiscussionAs a result of the evaluation, 31 errors are observed.These errors can be divided into three types,corresponding to the lack of rules, the problem ofsemantic features and exceptions.
Lack of rulesincluding the semantic features of V1 and V2 has notyet been registered in our rules.The second problem occurs where semanticfeatures cannot be assigned to V1 appropriately.
Forinstance, koneru ?knead?
is assigned hendo?fluctuation?
as the semantic feature of V1, but theverb means motion for making something.
Thedifference between hendo ?fluctuation?
and seisan?production?
is important in identifying the semanticcluster, because kone-ageru ?complete kneading?
isin the aspectual cluster, but maki-ageru ?roll up?
isassigned the semantic feature of ?fluctuation?
in thespatial cluster.
We consider that such verbs shouldbe rearranged in an appropriate framework.The errors classified as exceptions are thosewhere an unusual usage of V1 causes the wrongcluster to be selected by our rules.
For example,moeru ?burn?
used in moe-agaru ?flare up?
isassigned bussho ?physical phenomena?
as itssemantic feature.
Moe-agaru ?flare up?
should beregarded as spatial cluster, because of its dictionarydefinition that something burns with rising flames.However, a JCV with a V1 of bussho ?physicalphenomena?
and V2 of agaru ?go up?
is classifiedinto the aspectual cluster by our rules, similarly towaki-agaru ?boil up?
and atatame-ageru ?finishheating?.
Moe-agaru ?flare up?
should be registeredin the dictionary as an exception.The accuracy of our rules is improved up tonearly 99% by the addition of 10 rules for 19 verbsand by rearranging the semantic features of 8 verbs.The result confirms the advantage of our method fordisambiguating JCVs.6  Conclusions and Future WorkWe proposed a disambiguation method for JCVsbased on disambiguation rules which make use ofthe semantic features of each constituent.
We alsoclarified the characteristics of, and problems for, atreatment of JCVs.
The obtained accuracy is87.19% for our rules.
This result shows theadvantage of our method.The disambiguation rules will be enhanced byanalyzing the rest of the ambiguous V2 verbs shownin 2.3.
This will complete our method fordisambiguation.
We will try to apply our method toa machine translation system, comparing the resultsof our study with a study of phrasal verbs in English.ReferenceTimothy Baldwin and Francis Bond.
2002.Multiword Expressions: Some Problems forJapanese NLP, In Eighth Annual Meeting of theAssociation of Natural Language Processing,Keihanna, Japan, pages 379-382.Masako Himeno.
1999.
The Structure of CompoundVerbs and  Semantic Usage.
Hitsuji Shobo,Tokyo.Masako Himeno.
2001.
The nature of CompoundVerbs.
Nihongogaku, 240(20):6-15.Satoru Ikehara, et al 1999.
A Japanese Lexicon.Iwanami Shoten, Tokyo.IPA, 1987.
Japanese basic verb dictionary IPAL.Taro Kageyama.
1993.
Grammar and WordFormation.
Hitsuji Shobo, Tokyo.Taro Kageyama.
1999.
Word Formation.
TheHandbook of Japanese Linguistics.
BlackwellPublishers, Massachusetts, USA.Kyosuke Kindaichi.
1999.
Shin Meikai KokugoDictionary.
5th edition.
Sanseido, Tokyo.Mainichi NewsPapers.
1993.
Mainichi Shinbun sha.Yo Matsumoto.
1996.
Complex Predicates inJapanese.
CSLI Publications & KurosioPublishers, Stanford & Tokyo.Yo Matsumoto.
1998.
The combinatory possibilitiesin Japanese V-V lexical compounds.
GengoKenkyu, The Linguistic Society of Japan,114:37-83.Yuji Matsumoto, et al 2000.
MorphologicalAnalysis System Chasen Version2.2.1.
UsersManual.Kazuaki Niimi, Youichi Yamaura, and TokukoUtsuno.
1987.
Compound Verb.
AratakeShuppan, Tokyo.Susumu Oono and Masato Hamanishi.
1989.
RuigoShin Jiten.
Kadokawa Shoten, Tokyo.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
Multiwordexpressions: A pain in the neck for NLP.
InProceedings of the Third InternationalConference on Intelligent Text Processing andComputational Linguistics: CICLING-2002,Mexico City, Mexico, pages 1-15.Satoshi Shirai, Yoshifumi Ooyama, Shinobu Takechi,Keiko Wakebe, and Hiroshi Aizawa.
1998.Compiling Japanese and English corpus forcompound verbs of Japanese origin.
In 57thAnnual Meeting of IPSJ, Nagoya, Japan, pages267-268.Yoshiko Tagashira.
1986.
Handbook of JapaneseCompound Verbs.
Hokuseido, Tokyo.Aline Villavicencio and Ann Copestake.
2002.Verb-particle constructions in a computationalgrammar of English.
In Ninth InternationalConference on Head-Driven Phrase StructureGrammar, Seoul, South Korea.
