The Organization of the LexiconThe Polysemy of Grow and DisambiguationYukiko Sasaki AlamDept.
of Digital Media ScienceHosei UniversityTokyo, Japansasaki@k.hosei.ac.jpAbstractThis paper demonstrates that the polysemy ofthe verb grow is a result of natural extensionof individual meanings connoted by its basicliteral meaning and that the polysemy of grow,as such, can be disambiguated by applyingsimple rules of elimination to the argumentstructures, which are the contexts that makeparticular senses viable.1 Introduction1This paper claims that the polysemy of the verbgrow is a result of natural extension of meaningsconnoted by the basic literal meaning and that theconnotations develop into each independent mean-ing of grow by requiring different semantic fea-tures of the arguments.
The connotations of theliteral meaning of grow become viable in a newcontext of argument structure.It will be demonstrated that for the computationaltreatment of disambiguation, it is not necessary toexhaust all the features involved in a particularmeaning of grow, but the application of simplerules of elimination to the argument structurewould be sufficient.1 I would like to thank Alan Wallington, John Barnde, MarkLee and Sheila Glasbey for organizing the workshop entitledThe Lexicon and Figurative Language at ACL 2003 in Sap-poro, Japan on July 11, 2003.
My thanks also go to threeanonymous reviewers for valuable comments.
I alone, how-ever, am responsible for any errors this paper may contain.The second section will discuss each sense of grow,focusing on the semantic components of the argu-ments, and on the relationships among them.
I willdemonstrate what is required to disambiguate thepolysemy of grow in the third section, which isfollowed by short sections for implications andconclusion.2 Relationships of extended meaningsViewed by using such thematic roles of verbs asGOAL and SOURCE, the meanings of the verbgrow shows an interesting relationship among eachother.
According to the etymology of the word, theoriginal sense would be for a plant to germinateand develop or for a living thing to undergo naturaldevelopment, for instance, by increasing in sizeand changing physically.
The meanings of growcould be illustrated as below2:(1) grow_protoa.
It?s too cold for orchids to grow here.b.
Crocuses don't grow in ponds.c.
Later, forests grew on the delta.2 The following idiomatic uses of grow are not included in thediscussion of this paper:(i)  His new jacket?s a bit big for him now, but he?ll soon growinto it.
(ii) I didn?t like blue cheese at first, but the taste has kind ofgrown on me.
(iii) Jonathan still sucks his thumb, but we hope he?ll grow outof it.
(iv) What will you be when you grow up?d.
A dozen or so bushes grew from a wide fis-sure.e.
He grew mentally and spiritually.3(2) grow_appeara.
A small glimmer of happiness grew on theirfaces.b.
Confidence grew in him.c.
Their love grew out of friendship.d.
The book grew out of their weekly meetings.e.
In those days such interests rarely grew fromthe pupils?
enthusiasm or choice.
(3) grow_increasea.
His confidence grew.b.
He grew in confidence.c.
The city?s population grew from 130,000 tomore than 500,000.d.
The ethnic minorities grew in influence.e.
The European market for ISDN telephonelines will grow in value from ?200,000now to ?2.5m by the year 2000.
(4) grow_changea.
A boy grows to manhood.b.
A boy grows into a man.c.
His love grew coldd.
I am growing to hate him.e.
They grew from girl to woman.f.
The city of London grew from a small fish-ing village to a great city.
(5) grow_causeda.
The farmer grew corn in this field last year.b.
He?s growing a beard.c.
Plants grow roots.d.
Cattle often grow horns.A.
grow_proto and grow_appearThe meaning of ?grow_proto?
connotes a combina-tion of appearance, development, increase in sizeand change, all of which seem to have developedto be independent meanings of grow through the3 He grew mentally and spiritually in (1e) may be a result ofpersonification.metaphorical process.
Therefore, each developedmeaning has the undertone of the basic meaning ofgrow.The characteristic properties of the meaning of?grow_proto?
are that the SUBJECT noun phraserefers to a living thing such as a plant and a humanand that it may take a component that plays a roleof denoting place for both growing and existence.Such a component is called LOCUS among suchscholars who study the semantic structure of verbsas Gruber (1965), Starosta (1978) and Ostler(1980)4.Unlike the meaning of ?grow_proto?, the meaningof ?grow_appear?
takes the SUBJECT noun phrasethat does not refer to a living thing.
Therefore, themeanings of ?grow_proto?
and ?grow_appear?
arecomplementary in terms of the  features of theSUBJECT noun phrases.
In addition, unlike thereading of ?grow_proto?, the reading of?grow_appear?
does not necessarily require aLOCUS component having the feature of PLACE,but the feature of denoting a physical object suchas a face in (2a) would be sufficient.
Thus, it couldbe stated that the reading of ?grow_appear?
has lesssemantic constraint on the LOCUS componentthan that of ?grow_proto?.In addition, the reading of ?grow_appear?
takes acomponent indicating source of coming into exis-tence, which can be called SOURCE because ofthe role of indicating the source of action.
TheSOURCE element refers to an abstract entity as in(2c) through (2e).
Difference in the semantic fea-tures of the components in the readings of?grow_proto?
and ?grow_appear?
is illustrated inthe following table:4 It should be noted that LOCUS should be distinguished fromLOCATION, which indicates place where AGENT takes ac-tion.
Take the following for instance:a.
He is writing a letter on a letter pad.b.
He is writing a letter in the kitchen.The phrase on a letter pad functions as LOCUS whereas in thekitchen,  LOCATION.(6)a.
grow_protoSUBJECT + GROW (+ LOCUS or SOURCE)5b.
grow_appearSUBJECT + GROW + LOCUS or SOURCEreadings semanticsofSUBJECTsemanticsofLOCUSsemanticsofSOURCEgrow_proto livingthingplace placegrow_appear non-livingthingphysicalentityabstractentityAlthough both readings take the construction in theform of SUBJECT + GROW + LOCUS, the read-ing of ?grow_appear?
needs either the LOCUS orthe SOURCE whereas the reading of ?grow_proto?can have the SUBJECT only.B.
grow_increaseThe SUBJECT noun phrase of the reading of?grow_increase?
refers either to a physical objector to an abstract object.
This reading permits aninteresting interchange of  two constructions, asillustrated below:(7)a.
His confidence grew.
(= 3a)(POSSESSOR?s ATTRIBUTE GROW)b.
He grew in confidence.
(= 3b)(POSSESSOR GROW in ATTRIBUTE)As (7b) shows, the POSSESSOR component canbe the SUBJECT of the sentence, and theATTRIBUTE can appear in the form of in +ATTRIBUTE.
Let us look into the phrase in confi-dence in (7b).
In fact, we find the third construc-tion somewhat similar in meaning to those in (7a)and (7b), which is repeated below:(8)  Confidence grew in him.
(= 2b)Let us use the following conceptual diagrams forour exploration of the nature of the phrase ?in +ATTRIBUTE?
:5 Parentheses indicate the item inside is optional.(9)a.
A flower grew in the pot.b.
Confidence grew in him.
(= 2b, 8)c. He grew in confidence.
(=3b, 7b)The two diagrams suggest that in (9a) the part, aflower, is the SUBJECT of the sentence, and thewhole, the pot,  is the LOCUS.
Likewise, in (9b)the part, confidence, is the SUBJECT while thewhole, him, is the LOCUS.
Alternatively, by usingTalmy?s (1978) terminology in cognitive psychol-ogy, we could call the part ?figure?
and the whole?ground?.
Moreover, Brugman and Lakoff (1988)treated the figure as an element in focus and theground as an element not in focus in the paperdealing with prepositions.
Drawing on the insightof previous researchers, I call the thematic role ofthe phrase in confidence FOCUS.
The FOCUSelement in this construction always appears in theform of in + FOCUS noun, and the noun refers toan abstract entity.Furthermore, the reading of ?grow_increase?
mayappear with phrases indicating a finishing point ofincrease as well as a starting point.
As thosephrases are preceded by the prepositions to andfrom, I call their thematic roles GOAL andSOURCE respectively according to the namingconvention of thematic roles.
As the examples in(3c) and (3e) show, the GOAL and SOURCE ele-ments denote quantities.
It should also be notedthat the reading of ?grow_increase?
does not takethe SOURCE element alone without accompany-ing the GOAL element.
Where there is a SOURCEelement, so is there a GOAL element.flowerpotconfidencehimThus, we need three-fold constructions in this read-ing, as illustrated below;(10) grow_increase(a) SUBJECT+ GROW(a) semanticsof SUBJECT(possessor?sattribute)FOCUS GOAL(finishingpoint)SOURCE(startingpoint)abstract entity (None) (None) (None)(b) SUBJECT + GROW + in + FOCUS(b) semanticsof SUBJECT(possessor)FOCUS(attribute)GOAL(finishingpoint)SOURCE(startingpoint)abstract orphysical en-tityabstractentity(None) (None)(c) SUBJECT + GROW  (+ in + FOCUS) + GOAL(+ SOURCE)6(c) semanticsof SUBJECTFOCUS(attribute)GOAL(finishingpoint)SOURCE(startingpoint)abstract orphysical en-tityabstractentityquantity quantityC.
grow_changeThe reading of ?grow_change?
seems to derive byfocusing the aspect of change or development con-noted by the basic meaning of grow.
TheSUBJECT noun phrase refers to an entity that un-dergoes change of state.
The minimum require-ment of this reading is an element that indicates thefinal state of change whether the final state is ex-pressed as a prepositional phrase as in to manhood(4a) and into a man (4b), as an adjective as in grewcold (4c), or as an infinitival phrase as in growingto hate him (4d).
This reading may optionally ap-pear with an element denoting the initial state ofchange, as in from girl to woman in (4e).6 Parentheses indicate the item inside is optional.The characteristics of this reading is that the se-mantic features in the SUBJECT, GOAL and, ifany, SOURCE elements should agree in featurespecification.
For instance, in (4b) the semanticfeatures of boy and man should agree in featurespecification for well-formedness.
It is easy to de-tect some cases of this reading syntactically.
Onlythis reading permits such a construction as His lovegrew cold in (4c) and I am growing to hate him in(4d).
The following table shows semantic featuresfor the reading of ?grow_change?
in constructionsother than (4c) and (4d), both of which require aspecial syntactic treatment.
(11) grow_change (requiring the feature agreementamong the three roles)semantics ofSUBJECTsemantics ofGOAL (re-quired ele-ment)semantics ofSOURCE (op-tional element)physical entity physical entity physical entityabstract entity abstract entity abstract entityD.
grow_causedThe reading of ?grow_caused?
differs structurallyfrom the other readings discussed above in that itrequires the component which plays the grammati-cal role of OBJECT.
In other words, grow in thisreading is a transitive verb.
This reading is derivedfrom the reading of ?grow_proto?
by adding theAGENT element, and thus it may take the LOCUSelement, as in grew corn in this field (5a).
Thus itis not difficult to distinguish this reading from theother readings.To sum up, a combination of connotations of theliteral meaning of ?grow_proto?
each seems to be-come a focus and develop into an independentmeaning of grow.
The shift of focus has caused thechange of the semantics of the argument, resultingin a different argument structure from that for thebasic meanig: for instance, the meaning of increasedoes not take the LOCUS that denotes place anylonger, but can instead have a FOCUS element thatdenotes an abstract entity.
Likewise, the GOALand SOURCE elements in the reading of?grow_increase?
do not denote place, but indicate afinishing and a starting points of increase respec-tively.
The reading of ?grow_change?
may haveGOAL and SOURCE elements, but what theyreally represent is the final and initial states ofchange.
Yet, the readings of ?grow_increase?
and?grow_change?
are related to each other, and sharesomething in common: both events are realized bygrowing.
All extended meanings carry the under-tone of the basic meaning with them.
These mean-ings seem to be developed from ?grow_proto?
as ifcell division takes place.
This kind of lexical or-ganization and extension would reduce memoryload on the learner.3 For computational treatmentFinally, I would like to make comments on thecomputational treatment of the polysemy of grow.The following table gives an idea of which read-ings are similar syntactically and semantically andof what is required to disambiguate the polysemy.For the computational treatment of disambiguation,we would not need to exhaust all the features in-volved in argument structure for each meaning of averb, but to have sufficient rules of elimination ofother readings would suffice.Following is a table showing relationships amongthe meanings of grow, which is organized in termsof grammatical and thematic roles.7(12)Meanings JustSUBJL G G&S Sgrow_proto ok ok   okgrow_appear  ok   okgrow_increase ok ok(=F)8ok okgrow_change   ok okL=LOCUS, F=FOCUS, G=GOAL, G&S = GOAL& SOURCE, S=SOURCE7 I will not include the reading of ?grow_caused?
because ithas a distintive construction by having the OBJECT, and iseasy to distinguish from the others.
In addition, constructionssuch as His love grew cold and I am growing to hate him arenot included in this table because these are typical of the rea d-ing of ?grow_change?, and are easy to detect syntact ically.8 ?=F?
means that in this reading the LOCUS element has amore specific role, FOCUS.The construction in the form of SUBJECT +GROW appears in both readings of ?grow_proto?and ?grow_increase?.
Both readings are distin-guishable from each other by the semantics of theSUBJECT noun phrases.
The SUBJECT nounphrase in the reading of ?grow_proto?
requires anentity referring to a living thing, while that in thereading of ?grow_increase?, an abstract entity.Three readings, ?grow_proto?, ?grow_appear?
and?grow_increase?
take the form of SUBJECT nounphrase + GROW + P9 + LOCUS noun phrase; inparticular the last reading in the form of SUBJECT+ GROW + in + FOCUS noun instead.
As theLOCUS in the reading of ?grow_proto?
denotes thePLACE feature and the others do not, the readingof ?grow_proto?
can be distinguished from theother two.
Between the remaining two, the readingof ?grow_appear?
takes the LOCUS requiring aphysical entity whereas the reading of?grow_increase?, an abstract entity.The readings of ?grow_incease?
and?grow_change?
may appear in the form ofSUBJECT + GROW + to + GOAL or in the formof SUBJECT + GROW + from + SOURCE + to +GOAL.
They are distinguishable because theGOAL and SOURCE in the reading of?grow_increase?
include features of QUANTITYwhile those in the reading of ?grow_change?
do not.The readings of ?grow_proto?
and ?grow_appear?take the form of SUBJECT + GROW + from +SOURCE, but while the SOURCE in the readingof ?grow_appear?
refers to an abstract entity, thatin the reading of ?grow_proto?
does not.
As men-tioned above, the two readings are also distin-guishable in terms of the semantic features of theSUBJECT noun phrases because the SUBJECT ofthe reading of ?grow_proto?
requires a feature indi-cating a living thing while that of the reading of?grow_appear?
should not.As discussed above, once rules of elimination areprepared, it would not be difficult to disambiguatethe polysemy of a word, because the polysemy isbased on the extension of meanings that do notoverlap and the contexts that make the extensions9 ?P?
stands for preposition.viable should not overlap either.
The contexts inthe case of verbs are the argument structures.4 ImplicationsInterestingly, the hypothesis of the relationshipbetween the primary sense and other extendedsenses in this study differs from that in Tyler andEvans?
(2001) study on the polysemy of the prepo-sition over.
This study claims that the basic or pri-mary sense of grow has a combination ofindividual connotations such as change of state,increase and appearance, and that grow acquires anew sense extended from each individual connota-tion by allowing a different argument structure.
Onthe other hand, the primary sense of over proposedin Tyler and Evans ?represents a highly idealizedabstraction from our rich recurring experience ofspatial scenes?
and ?other distinct senses instanti-ated in the polysemy network for over result frompragmatic strengthening, i.e.
reanalysis and encod-ing.?
(p. 762) It would be an open question whetherthis difference is due to different subject matters,i.e.
between the verb and the preposition, or due todifferent approaches, i.e.
between computationallymotivated and psycholinguistic approaches.However, both studies have a common underlyingthesis that the lexicon is highly motivated exhibit-ing regularities.
This is in contrast to the view gen-erally held by Minimalist linguists that the lexiconis not organized by general principles (Chomsky1995).10The advantage of the analysis of the polysemy ofgrow proposed in this study is that it is somewhatsimilar to analyses we find in the entries for growin dictionaries.
This suggests that it might be pos-sible to use analyses of lexical entries listed in tr a-ditional dictionaries for computational purposes.5 ConclusionThis paper has discussed the relationships of thepolysemy of the verb grow by examining the se-10 The study of the lexicon and in particular the semanticpolysemy has never been a subject of serious linguistic r e-search in the framework of Generative Linguistics.
As thestudy of the lexicon has been scarce and the research has tocover a vast realm of linguistic data and activities, this field isin dire need of future research.mantic features of the arguments.
It has demon-strated that a combination of meanings connoted inthe basic literal meaning each develops into an in-dependent meaning of grow, attaining a new con-text that makes the meanig effective.
Thepolysemy of grow is a natural extension of conno-tations of its basic meaning.
This type of lexicalorganization, if this assumption is in the right di-rection, would have reduced memory load on thelearner.
It has also pointed out that for the compu-tational treatment of disambiguation, it is not nec-essary to exhaust all the features involved in aparticular reading of the polysemy, but that simplerules of elimination of other readings should suf-fice.
This claim has been demonstrated by disam-biguating the polysemy of grow by applying therules of elimination to the argument structures,which are in fact the contexts that make particularmeanings viable.ReferencesAbraham, Werner.
(ed.)
1978.
Valence, semantic caseand grammatical relations.
Amsterdam: Benjamins.Brugman, Claudia and George Lakoff.
1988.
Cognitivetopology and lexical networks.
Lexical ambiguityresolution, ed.
by Steven Small, Garrison Cottrell,and Michael Tanenhaus, 477-507.
Palo Alto, CA:Morgan Kaufman.Chomsky, Noam.
1995.
Categories and transformations.The minimalist program, by Noam Chomsky, 219-394.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Gruber, Jeffrey.
1965.
Studies in lexical relations.
Cam-bridge, Mass.
: MIT dissertation.Ostler, Nicholas.
1980.
A theory of case linking andagreement.
Bloomington: Indiana University Lin-guistic Club.Starosta, Stanly.
1978.
The one per cent solution.
InAbraham, 459-576.Talmy, Leonard.
1978.
Figure and ground in complexsentences.
Universals in human language, vol.
4, ed.by Joseph Greenberg, 625-649.
Stanford, CA: Stan-ford University Press.Tyler, Andrea and Vyvyan Evans.
2001.
Reconsideringprepositional polysemy networks: The case of over.Language 77.724-765.
