Defining and identifying the roles of geographic references within text:Examples from the Great Britain Historical GIS projectHumphrey SouthallDepartment of GeographyUniversity of PortsmouthBuckingham BuildingLion TerracePortsmouth PO1 3HEENGLANDHumphrey.Southall@port.ac.ukAbstractReliably recognizing, disambiguating,normalizing, storing, and displayinggeographic names poses many challenges.However, associating each name with ageographical point location cannot be the finalstage.
We also need to understand each name?srole within the document, and its associationwith adjacent text.
The paper develops thesepoints through a discussion of two differenttypes of historical texts, both rich ingeographic names: descriptive gazetteer entriesand travellers?
narratives.
It concludes bydiscussing the limitations of existing mark-upsystems in this area.1  The Great Britain Historical GISThe Great Britain Historical GIS is a very largeassembly of historical information about Britain, all insome sense tied to particular places.
The earliest data inthe system was computerised in the late 1970s, and itwas established as a relational database in 1989-91.Until recently, however, almost our entire content waseither statistical or locational:  by now, we havecomputerised or acquired from collaborators asubstantial fraction of the information published in thereports of the Censuses of Population for England andWales, and for Scotland;  and of the informationpublished in vital registration reports for the same areassince the 1840s.In general, our coverage ends in the early 1970s,when the relevant information began to be published indigital form.
Our statistical database by now comprisesover 33m.
data values, and is closely linked to digitalmapping containing the changing boundaries of thevarious statistical reporting units:  counties, varioustypes of district, and approaching 20,000 parishes.
Thismaterial has formed the basis for studies ofdemographic, economic and social change.However, our largest source of current funding has adifferent focus.
A grant from part of the UK NationalLottery is turning the GBH GIS into an on-line resourcefor ?life-long learners?, which in practice means thegeneral public.
Our system is not a conventional on-lineGIS as our most obvious audience are people interestedin local history:  the most basic functionality of our siteallows users to specify a location by a place-name or,preferably, a postal code which in the UK identifies agroup of maybe ten houses, and therefore a fairlyprecise location;  they will then be taken to a pageproviding information on how their current localauthority ?
there are 408 in Great Britain ?
has changedover the last 200 years, with the option to drill deeper byaccessing information for the various pastadministrative units which contained the location theyspecified.
An initial system, limited to the abovefunctions for the modern units, should go live duringMay 2003:www.VisionOfBritain.org.ukLater versions of the site will contain vastly greatercontent.
We will provide access to data for the originalhistorical units, using ?point-in-polygon?
searching of aspatial database to identify relevant units, having firstconverted the users?
postal code into a geographiccoordinate.
The site will draw on both vector mappingof historic boundaries and two complete set of geo-referenced image scans of historic maps of Great Britainat one inch-to-the-mile scale:  Firstly, we are scanningtwo complete editions of Ordnance Survey One Inch-to-the-Mile maps of Great Britain:  the New PopularEdition, published in the late 1940s and the first toinclude National Grid lines, simplifying geo-referencingall the scanned maps;  and the nineteenth century FirstSeries.
Geo-referencing the latter will be challenging,and require extensive ?rubber sheeting?.We are computerising two existing inventories ofhistorical administrative units covering England andWales, and constructing an equivalent digital resourcecovering Scotland.
These inventories are not gazetteersbut systematic lists of all the counties, parishes andvarious kinds of districts that ever existed, with theirhierarchic relationships and some information on variantnames.
This information provides the absolute core ofour system, structured as an ontology rather than as astrictly hierarchic thesaurus.
The core ontology doesnot require locational information for units, but ifavailable locations are stored as polygons representingthe boundaries, with dates of creation and abolition.In our final system, we will be able to offer ?homepages?
not just for the 408 modern districts but for over20,000 historic units, including the parishes which werethe lowest level of administration until recently, andgenerally correspond with individual villages.
Eachhome page will contain a map showing the overalllocation within Britain and a short description generatedfrom the database and highlighting key statistics.
Fromthe home page, users will be able to access a more localmap showing the unit?s boundary, a range of statisticsmostly presented graphically, and information on theunit?s history including boundary changes andhierarchic relationships.Relative to the overall size and scope of the site, ourown capacity to author descriptive and explanatory textis limited.
We will concentrate on the text toaccompany maps showing national patterns.
However,a site that was largely limited to statistics, evenpresented as maps and graphs, would be pretty boringand we are therefore computerising a large quantity oftext from existing publications.
This text forms themain subject of this paper.There are in fact three types of text.
Firstly, we arecomputerising the introductions to all the census reportsbetween 1801 and 1851, to provide a description of thecountry as a whole.
This aspect of the project is notfurther discussed here.Secondly, we are computerising three descriptivegazetteers published in the late nineteenth century,totalling over 4,000 pages and containing about 5m.words:?
John Bartholomew?s Gazetteer of the British Isles(Edinburgh, 1887).
This covers the whole BritishIsles, including Ireland.?
John Goring?s Imperial Gazetteer of England andWales (Edinburgh, 6 vols., 1870-72)?
Frances Groome?s Ordnance Gazetteer of Scotland,(Edinburgh,  6 vols., 1882-85).
Our work on this is acollaboration with the Gazetteer for Scotland project.Even with the gazetteer text, it will be very easy forusers to locate information about very specific places,but much harder for them to move around the system toexplore the relationships between places, and form a?vision of Britain through time?
as a whole.
Thisjustifies our third and final type of new content:narratives describing historical journeys around Britain.We are computerising four well known accounts, aswell as some shorter accounts written by radicalagitators as they moved around in the mid-19thcentury:?
William Cobbett, Rural Rides (London, 1830).?
Daniel Defoe, A Journey through the whole island ofBritain divided into circuits or journies (London,1724-7).?
Celia Fiennes, Through England on a side saddle inthe time of William and Mary, being the diary ofCelia Fiennes (London, 1888).?
Arthur Young, Tours in England and Wales,Selected from the Annals of agriculture (London,1784-98).This list has been deliberately kept short, as wealmost certainly have the capacity to digitise morebooks via our Optical Character Recognition system butnot necessarily to mark them up.
Three obviousadditions would be the journals of John Wesley, theTorrington Diaries and Boswell and Johnson?s tour ofthe Hebrides.2  Descriptive GazetteersThe descriptive gazetteers form a very large body oftext, but fortunately they are highly structured, makingautomated parsing feasible.
The parsing software runswithin our Oracle database and is written in SQL andPL/SQL.
I have no doubt that it would be both moreefficient as well as more effective if it were written in,say, Perl.
Little more will be said about the software,other than to note that its relative effectiveness is mainlyevidence of the vital importance of having a largedatabase of placenames already built.Although we are working with three different books,all are written to a broadly similar formula:?
Each consists of alphabetically arranged entries;  eachentry begins with a head-word, i.e.
the place-nameusually in bold or upper case letters.?
The head-word is followed by an indication of thefeature type (?a parish?, ?a river?, etc).?
Third comes some indication of where the feature is,which almost always indicates a county, sometimes arelative location (?9 miles SW of Worcester?)
andnever an absolute location such as latitude andlongitude.The main differences between the books is thatBartholomew?s consists of a very large number of shortentries while the Imperial Gazetteer and Groome?sprovide longer entries, those for major cities andcounties covering several pages.
Mostly, however, wefocus on the first sentence as outlined above.
Here aresome samples, firstly from the very beginning ofBartholomew?s:?
A'an, or Avon, lake, S. Banffshire, among theCairngorm mountains, 1_ mile long, at alt.
of 2250ft.
; it is the head-water of river Avon: which see.?
Aasleagh, place, co. Mayo, 16 m. S. of Westport; P.O.?
Abbas and Temple Combe, par., mid.
Somerset,4miles S. of Wincanton sta., 1850 ac., pop.
590.?
Abbenhall.
See ABENHALL.?
Abberley, par.
and seat, W. Worcestershire, 4 milesSW.
of Stourport sta., 2636 ac., pop.
605; P.O.?
Abbert, seat, 10 miles NE.
of Athenry, co.
Galway.?
Abbertoft, hamlet, Willoughby par., mid.
Lincoln-shire, 2 miles SE.
of Alford.?
Abberton.
?par., E. Essex, on Roman road, 4 milesS.of Colchester, 1068 ac., pop.
244; P.O.?2.
Abberton,par.
and seat, E. Worcestershire, on river Piddle,4miles NE.
of Pershore sta., 1001 ac., pop.
92.?
Abberwick, township, Edlingham par., N.Northumberland, on river Alne, 3 miles W. ofAlnwick, 1680 ac., pop.
109.?
Abbess Roding.
See ABBOTS ROOTHING.?
Abbethune, seat, 1 m. from Inverkeilor sta., Forfarsh.Secondly, from the Imperial Gazetteer:?
AFTON , a village 2 miles S of Yarmouth, Isle ofWight.
Afton House adjoins it, on a pleasant slopetoward the Yar.
Afton Down rises in the south-easternneighbourhood, overhangs the English Channel, hasan altitude of about 500 feet, and is crowned bytumuli.?
BINSTEAD, a small village and a parish in the Isleof Wight.
The village stands on the coast of theSolent, amid charming environs, 1_ mile W by N ofRyde.
The parish comprises 1,140 acres of land and335 of water; and its post-town is Ryde.
Realproperty, ?2,775.
Pop., 486.
Houses, 105.
The manorbelonged, at the Conquest, to William Fitz-Stur; andpassed to the Bishops of Winchester.
Severalpicturesque villas, one of them belonging to LordDownes, stand near the village and on the coast.Quarr Abbey House is the seat of Admiral SirThomas J. Cochrane.
Remains of a Cistertian Abbey,called Quarr Abbey, founded in 1132, by Baldwin deRedvers, afterwards Earl of Devon, stand at afarmstead, 5 furlongs west of the village; and, thoughfragmentary and mutilated, show some interestingfeatures.
A siliceous limestone, containing manyfossils, and well suited for building, has beenextensively quarried since at least the time of WilliamRufus.
The living is a rectory in the diocese ofWinchester.
Value, ?80.
* Patron, the Bishop ofWinchester.
The church was rebuilt in 1842; is in theearly English style; and embodies some sculpturedstones of a previous Norman edifice.?
BRAMBLE CHINE, a small ravine on the NW coastof the Isle of Wight; at Colwell bay, 2 miles SW ofYarmouth.
A thick bed of oyster shells, in a fossilstate, is here; the shells in the same position as in life,but entirely decomposed.?
CALBOURNE, a village, a parish, and a sub-districtin the Isle of Wight.
The village stands 5 miles WSWof Newport; and-has a post-office under Newport.The parish includes also Newtown borough; andextends from Brixton Down to the Solent.
Acres,6,397; of which 265 are water.
Real property, ?4,471.Pop., 728.
Houses, 145.
The property is dividedamong a few.
Westover manor belonged to the Esturs;passed to the Lisles and the Holmeses; and belongsnow to the eldest son of Lord Heytesbury, in right ofhis wife, the daughter of the late Sir Leonard W.Holmes.
The house on it is modern; and the groundsare tasteful.
Calbourne Bottom, 1_ mile SSW of thevillage, is a depression between Brixton andMoltestone downs.
The living is a rectory, united withthe p. curacy of Newtown, in the diocese ofWinchester.
Value, ?675.
* Patron, the Bishop ofWinchester.
The church is early English, muchmodernized; and has a brass of 1480.?The sub-district contains eight parishes.
Acres, 25,050.
Pop.,5,417.
Houses, 1,071.?
WIGHT (Isle of), an island in Hants; bounded, onthe N, by the Solent,?on the other sides, by theEnglish channel.
Its outline is irregularly rhomboidal,and has been compared to that of a turbot, and to thatof a bird with expanded wings.
Its length from E toW, from Bembridge Point to the Needles, is nearly 23miles; its greatest breadth from N to S, from WestCowes to St. Catherine?s Point, is 13_ miles; itscircuit is about 56 miles; and its area, inclusive offoreshore, is 99,746 acres.
The general surface has aconsiderable elevation above sea-level.
The coast,along the N, is low; around the W angle, is rocky,broken, precipitous, and romantic; and along the SW,the S, and the SE, breaks down in a richly variedseries of cliffs, often abrupt or mural, extensivelyterraced and lofty, including all the magnificent rangeknown as the Undercliff, and everywhere replete withscenic interest.
The water-shed uniformly follows thetrending of the S coast; and is distant from it nevermore than 2_ miles, generally less than 1 mile.
Arange of downs extends about 6 miles from St.Catherine?s Hill to Dunnose; rises from the shore,with excessive steepness, to a height of nearly 800feet; and is marked, along its steep sea-front, with thepicturesque terraces of the Undercliff.
A diversifiedrange of downs extends about 22 miles, from theNeedles on the W to Culver cliff on the E;commences in grand cliffs about 600 feet high; runs 9miles nearly due east, in a single, sharp, steep ridge,to Mottiston; attains there its highest altitude, at 662feet above sea-level; makes several debouches in itssubsequent progress; suffers repeated cleaving anddisseverment, in the form of gaps or depressions;assumes, for some distance, in the neighbourhood ofCarisbrooke, the character of a double or a triplerange; is, in some parts of its course, saddle-shapedand slender,?in other parts, broad-based andmoundish; and divides the island into two prettynearly equal sections.
A transverse ridge, about 400feet high, extends about 3 miles in the contiguous tothe river Yar; and another transverse ridge, tame infeature, but sometimes of considerable height,extends between the Medina and the Brading.
Therest of the surface is either undulating or gentlysloping, and has little or no claim to be calledpicturesque.
The chief streams are the Yar, theNewton, the Medina, the Wooton, and the Main orBrading.
The geognostic structure comprises chieflylower greensand in most of the S, chalk in part of thecentre, and upper eocene in most of the N; butincludes many details, possesses deep interest, andmay advantageously be studied with the aid ofMantell?s and Martin?s manuals.
[just the firstparagraph of a long entry]The second example from the Imperial Gazetteerdemonstrates the main reason we need to do a limitedamount of work on the whole entry, not just the firstsentence.
For Binstead, the feature type clause is ?asmall village and a parish?, meaning that the place-nameis associated with more than one entity.
In extremecases, a single entry covers four distinct entities, so forexample Ledbury in Herefordshire was described asbeing ?a small town, a parish, a sub-district and adistrict?.
The last three of these terms are all distinctentities within our ontology, and the entries for suchplaces are in fact divided into a series of sections, eachbeginning with the type of sub-entry.
For Binstead, thefirst part begins ?The village?
and is just a singlesentence;  the second part begins ?The parish?.The texts begin by being scanned in by a specialisedOptical Character Recognition system optimised forhistoric materials, operated by our team based with theCentre for Data Digitisation and Analysis at the Queen?sUniversity Belfast.
The OCR output is then visuallyscanned and tidied up by Information Technologytrainees there, and delivered to the project?s main teamas Microsoft Word files replicating the sourcedocuments as closely as possible.The first stage in our work is breaking the text downinto the individual entries, each of which is then loadedas a separate record into our database.
The way the textso clearly divides into such discrete sections greatlysimplifies how we handle it.
One consequence is that,for now, we are not applying any mark-up system to thetext itself, other than basic HTML tags to preserve basicformatting, such as bold and italics.
Instead, additionalstructure and search facilities are provided by addingadditional columns to the table.What follows describes the parsing process forentries from Bartholomew?s:?
Firstly, the end of the head word is identified simplyfrom it being in bold face, and the head word iscopied into another column.
NB with the gazetteers,identifying the most important geographical namewithin the text is fairly trivial.?
Entries which are cross-references are identified fromtheir containing specific phrases immediately after thehead word:  ?See?, ?also called XXX, which see?,?another name of XXX, which see?
and, at present,?Welsh name of XXX, which see?.
The system thensearches for the cross-referenced name elsewhere inthe table.?
The system then tries to identify the feature type bybrute force methods:  all the strings immediatelyfollowing the headword in the first two thousandentries were extracted and sorted, and the sectionidentifying the feature type isolated to give 410distinct type strings.
Each of these was then markedup firstly with a version of itself in which allabbreviations were expanded, and secondly with threeflags indicating whether the type indicated the entrywas for a county, a parish or a borough.
Longer term,these ?original?
feature types will be mapped onto theAlexandria Digital Library Gazetteer Feature Typethesaurus.?
The next major stage is the identification of thecounty, which almost every entry includes.
Our coreontology contains a complete list of all counties in theBritish Isles, together with some variant names.
Weknow that one of these names must appear in eachentry, so brute force methods are used to find them,starting with the first clause of the first sentence, thenlooking at the second clause and so on up to theeighth.?
A similar method is used to find parish names,looking for various text strings which indicate areference to a parish, such as ?and forming part ofXXX?
or ?the hamlet is in XXX?.
NB as we havealready identified the county, the system matchesonly parish names in the correct county.What current procedures do not do is systematicallyassociate each entry with a point location.
This may notbe necessary.
Almost every single entry is associatedwith a county defined within our ontology, and thecounty will be associated with a polygon.
Further, agreat many entries are also associated with parishes, oractually are entries for a parish:  each parish covers afew square miles, which is sufficiently precise for manypurposes.
However, we are examining methods forlinking each entry with a single grid reference.
Threeapproaches are possible:?
In principle, it would be possible to parse the data onrelative locations within the entries, such as  ?16 m. S.of Westport?
or ?2 miles SW of Yarmouth?.?
In practice, we will first attempt to add locations byrunning the entries against a modern gazetteer.
Onepossibility is to use the Geo-X-walk gazetteerconstructed by collaborators at EDINA and query itvia the ADL gazetteer service protocol, using ourcounty polygons to specify the area to be searched.?
As always, neither method is likely to be totallyeffective, and a small number of entries could belocated manually.So far, we are not trying to systematically extractother information from the entries.
Although parish anddistrict entries contain certain items of statistical data ina largely predictable way, this is almost all taken fromcensus reports which we have separately computerised.For example, the district entries always including dataon numbers attending each type of church, but thiscomes from the report of the 1851 census of religion,which we also hold.We have built a demonstration system containing avariety of information for the Isle of Wight, an islandand small county just off the south coast of England.This includes all relevant entries from the ImperialGazetteer, and the system also includes the first 1,720entries from Batholomew?s.
Of these, 54 are cross-references to other entries, and of the remaining 1,666the parsing software has associated 1,609 (97%) withcounties.
This system can be accessed on-line at:http://www.gbhgis.org/demo_gaz.htmAlthough this prototype currently lacks mappingcapabilities, it does show the high level of integrationwe have been able to achieve between the descriptivegazetteers and other content.Summing up this discussion of our work withdescriptive gazetteers, the formulaic nature of theoriginal texts is of great assistance in automated parsing.For any given type of entry, we know what kinds ofgeographical names to expect:?
Subject : the name of the place itself.
Easilyidentified as it is the head word.?
Containers:  higher level units that contain thesubject.
We always look for a county, and sometimeslook for a parish.
In either case, our existing databaseprovides an authoritative list of valid units.?
Relatives: these are the generally larger settlementsthat are mentioned in relative locations.
Identifyingthem from the surrounding phrasing should bestraightforward, and it may prove helpful inidentifying ?larger?
places that our database alsocontains a mass of population statistics.3  Travellers?
AccountsThe travellers?
accounts are much less formulaic thanthe descriptive gazetteers and constitute a smaller bodyof text.
While work on the gazetteers is well advanced,methodologies for the travel narratives are still beingexplored and our expectation is that we will use semi-manual methods, identifying place-names and otherelements by reading through the text but using softwareto assist in adding mark-up.
The paper?s concern is notwith this process, but with what features we should beidentifying and how best to mark them up.Celia Fiennes?
travels in the 1690s are perhaps thepurest example of journeys both undertaken anddescribed for purely personal reasons.
They were?begun to regain my health by variety and change of aireand exercise?
(p. ix), and her account was not publishedfor nearly two hundred years.
Here is her account ofvisiting Stonhenge:Thence 6 miles to Blandford, thence 18 toSalsebury and 8 mile to Newtontony which standsin yemidst of yedowns 8 mile from Andover amarket town in Hampshire and yeroade to London.It lyes 15 mile from Winchester?it is three milefrom Amesbury and 2 mile more to Stoneage thatstands on Salsebury plaine?eminent for manybattles being faught there?this Stoneage isreckon'd one of the wonders of England how suchprodigeous stone should be brought there, as nosuch Stone is seen in yeCountry nearer than 20mile.
They are placed on the side of a hill in a rudejregullar form?two stones stands up and one laidon their tops with morteses into each other andthus are severall in a round like a wall with spacesbetween, but some are fallen down, so spoyle theorder or breach in the temple, as some think it wasin the heathen tymes; others thinke it the Trophyof some victory wone by one Ambrosious, andthence the town by it has its name of.
Amsebury.There is severall rows of lesser stones within theothers set up in the same forme of 2 upright andone lies on the top like a gateway.
How they werebrought thither or whether they are a made stone isnot resolved?
they are very hard yet I have seensome of them scraped?
the weather seemes not topenetrate them.
To increase the wonder of thestory is that none Can Count them twice alike?theystand confused and some single stones at adistance but I have told them often, and bring theirnumber to 91.
This Country is most Champion andopen, pleasant for recreations?its husbandry ismostly Corn and sheep, the Downs though shortgrass yefeed is sweet, producing the finest woolland sweet meat though but small.
(pp.
9-10)We are also including narratives written by radicalagitators.
These reflect a personal interest which beganwith tramping artisans and moved onto working classautobiographies written by men who used the trampingsystem (see Southall 1991a, 1991b, 1996).Autobiographies generally described mobility in earlyadulthood, artisans being encouraged to travel to widentheir experience after they completed theirapprenticeships but before they married.
Narrativeswritten long after the events described tend to describejourneys very vaguely:  ?for sixteen months I trampedthrough the principal towns of Middlesex, Lancashire,and Yorkshire?
or, unhelpfully, ?I need not follow mywanderings for some years, as my life at that time wasof the ordinary kind.?
In contrast, the texts describedhere as ?agitators?
narratives?
were written immediatelyafter the events described, and themselves formed partof the agitation:  they typically appeared in the relevantmovement?s weekly or monthly newspapers.
For now,we are concerned with three such narratives, although anumber of others have been examined:The movements of Feargus O?Connor, arguably theprincipal leader of the Chartists movement of the 1830sand 1840s, were extensively reported in the NorthernStar, which he edited;  it also sold signed engravings ofhim.
Scattered through the Star are a number of shorternarratives.
For example, the issue of January 19th1839contained a 4,500 word letter describing an eight daytour of Scotland.Secondly, ?The Life and Rambles of Henry Vincent,written by himself?, which appeared as a series ofarticles in The Western Vindicator, a newspaper ownedand edited by Vincent.
The articles total c. 30,000words, appeared in issues 3 (9th March 1839) to 13(18th May 1839) and cover the period between February26thand May 10th1839.
Vincent, the ?Demosthenes ofthe West?, was arguably the leading figure in theChartist movement in the west of England and SouthWales.
The narrative ends with Vincent in Monmouthgaol, and his release was the supposed aim of theNewport uprising in October 1839.Finally, a series of articles about and fairly clearly byEdwin Russell, an organiser employed by the NationalAgricultural Labourers?
Union in the 1870s.
BetweenSeptember 1872 and February 1873 a series of articlesin the Labourers?
Union Chronicle, totalling about10,000 words, described Russell?s travels, mainly inHerefordshire and Gloucestershire, in the autumn of1872.All narratives will reflect the biases of the author, andboth Cobbett and Young had well-defined agendas, butthe agitators?
narratives are distinguished by the purposenot of their writing but of the journeys themselves.
Onoccasion they adopted the conventions of orthodoxtravel writing;  here, for example is Vincent?sdescription of his journey to Ledbury:Took coach for Ledbury, in Herefordshire.
Thescenery along the road is very beautiful.
On theright, within four miles of Ledbury, standsEastnor Castle, the residence of Lord Somers.The castle is a fine building, situate on a piece ofrising ground, surrounded by a sheet of water, andbounded on either side by extensive plantations.The entrance into Ledbury is exceedingly pleasing.To the right, amidst a profusion of trees andshrubs, is Ledbury church.However, their basic goal was not to describe placesbut to change them, by creating new local branches oftheir organisations and establishing a sense of solidarityspanning places.
This was very much a job of work:For March 27th1839 Vincent reported:A meeting was called in Newport for seven.Just before the meeting commenced the darkclouds rolled away ?
the rain ceased ?
and thesilver moon looked smilingly upon us.
We hadabove 4000 persons present.
Edward Thomas tookthe chair.
I delivered a thrilling oration to thepeople, which produced a pleasing effect.
I felt inexcellent spirits and tone notwithstanding mycontinued travelling and speaking;  for I find, oncalculating, I have spoke about two hours a day forthirteen months, and travelled six thousand andseventy-one miles.
The Newport boys areadvancing bravely.Here is Russell:I enrolled the 65 members?
names on theMadley branch book, filled up a lot of members?cards, and put them in thorough good workingorder, and I think now they will be able to go on,but they do want  such a lot of leading andguiding.
I then walked on to  Hereford, six orseven miles, in the pouring rain, it pouring all theway, and, as a consequence, I got wet though.
Ihad a meeting planned for  tonight at Wellington,but on account of the heavy rains which had fallenthe rivers Lugg and Wye have overflowed theirbank to such an extent that the roads areimpassable, and I could not go to Wellington, butas I have got to arrange for a fortnight?s meetingon the other side of the county, I shall not be ablethis afternoon.4   Marking-Up Travel NarrativesGiven these sources, how can we organise them tomake them more accessible, and in particular to make itpossible for, firstly, users to access information onspecific places and, secondly, to generate maps of wheretravellers went?
By now, this almost inevitably meanssome kind of mark-up system, i.e.
adding tags to thetext.
Both common sense and the requirements of theprogram funding our work mean we should as far aspossible follow existing standards rather than invent ourown.
The obvious starting point is the work of the TextEncoding Initiative (TEI).
The TEI?s Guidelines forElectronic Text Encoding and Interchange were firstpublished in April 1994 and were initially based onStandard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).
Thecurrent version, TEI P4, is also compatible with XML(Extensible Markup Language), a subset of SGMLwhich is now far more widely used than its parent(Sperberg-McQueen and Burnard, 2002).
The fullGuidelines can be downloaded from:http://www.tei-c.orgThe Guidelines are just that, and any specific projectwill need a more specific mark-up system.
Beforediscussing the facilities within the Guidelines foridentifying locations and geographic terms, it should benoted that some key TEI-compatible mark-up schemesmake no use of them:?
?TEI Lite?
is defined by the TEI itself as ?amanageable subset of the full TEI encoding scheme?,but the only place-name tagging it provides for isplace of publication.?
The American Memory DTD (Document TypeDefinition) was developed by the Library of Congressto mark up historical texts included within its veryd i v e r s e  A m e r i c a n  M e m o r y  s y s t e m(http://lcweb2.loc.gov/ammem).
This is of particularinterest to us as our project is a major componentwithin a consortium led by the British Library aimingto create a UK equivalent to American Memory.However, the AMS DTD again excludes geographicaland place-name tags, and in fact the introduction tothe DTD specifically states ?it is too expensive toidentify geographic names?.?
The Minnesota ?Women?s Travel Writing, 1830-1930?
project have developed a WTW DTD based onthe TEI.
They use a TEI-defined mechanism foradding interpretative information on four themes:ethnicity, gender marking, transportation andwomen?s occupations.
However, they do not tagplace-names or geographic features.
They note thatissues have arisen in three main areas, gender,language and geography, and that ?our work [ongeography] has not progressed as far as in the firsttwo categories?
(Remnek et al.This cannot pretend to be a systematic survey of TEI-based DTDs, but it is still surprising that so little use ismade of the available facilities for geographicaldescription.
One project that is using these features isthe Perseus Project, primarily concerned with classicalliterature.
Their work is described in Crane et al 2001,but the remainder of this section discusses the facilitiesprovided by the overall TEI Guidelines for geographicalmark-up, and their suitability for travellers?
tales.Firstly, the Guideline allow simple tagging of place-names such as:I went from <placeName>NewYork</placeName> to<placeName>Boston</placeName>.Additional attributes can be added to simplifyprocessing:  ?key?
provides an alternative identifier forthe object being named, such as a database record key,while ?reg?
can provide a regularized form of the nameused so part of the earlier excerpt from Fiennesbecomes:Thence 6 miles to <placeNamereg=?Blandford Forum?> Blandford</placeName>, thence 18 to <placeNamereg=?Salisbury?>Salsebury </placeName>.Secondly, they allow a degree of hierarchy to beidentified, which is often essential to eliminateambiguity in common place-names, so an excerpt fromVincent would become:Took coach for<placeName><settlement type="town">Ledbury</settlement>, in <regiontype="county">Herefordshire</region></placeName>.Thirdly, they provide quite a sophisticatedmechanism for identifying relative locations via?offsets?, so that Vincent?s statements that ?On the right,within four miles of Ledbury, stands Eastnor Castle,the residence of Lord Somers?
becomes:On the right, within <placeName><distance>four miles</distance><offset>of</offset><settlement type="town">Ledbury</settlement>stands<name>Eastnor Castle</name>,</placeName>the residence of Lord Somers?.Finally, the <geog> tag can be used to identify typesof geographical features, so that an excerpt from Russellwould become:?
on account of the heavy rains whichhad fallen the<geogName><geog>rivers</geog><name>Lugg</name> and<name>Wye</name></geogName>rivers Lugg and Wyehave overflowed their bank to such anextent that the roads are impassable.Overall, the TEI Guidelines try very hard to capturelocational information embedded within otherwiseunstructured text, although writing software to makesystematic use of some of these tag structures might becomplex.
However, enabling conversion of locationalinformation into spatial co-ordinates is only one part ofthe problem of marking up travel narratives, andarguably the least interesting.
Equally important isunderstanding the role a reference to a place playswithin the text.
Consider this excerpt from Defoe:From Lemster it is ten miles to Hereford, thechief city, not of this county only, but of all thecounties west of Severn: 'Tis a large and apopulous city, and in the time of the lateRebellion, was very strong, and being wellfortify?d, and as well defended, supported atedious and very severe siege; for besides theParliament's Forces, who could never reduce it, theScots army was call?d to the work, who lay beforeit, 'till they laid above 4000 of their bones there,and at last, it was rather taken by the fate of thewar, than by the attack of the besiegers.Not far from Lidbury, is Colwal; near which,upon the waste, as a countryman was digging aditch about his cottage, he found a crown or acoronet of gold, with gems set deep in it.
It was ofa size large enough to be drawn over the arm, withthe sleeve.
The stones of it are said to have been sovaluable' as to be sold by a jeweller for fifteenhundred pounds.It is truly an old, mean built, and very dirty city,lying low, and on the bank of Wye, whichsometimes incommodes them very much, by theviolent freshes that come down from themountains of Wales; for all the rivers of thiscounty, except the Driffin-Doe, come out ofWales.Defoe is describing a journey from north to southfrom Shropshire through Herefordshire into Monmouth,but his text refers to many places off the line of hisroute:  the river Severn, about 30 miles east of Hereford;the town of Ledbury, ten miles to the east and thevillage of Colwall, fifteen miles east;  the mountains ofWales to the west, where the rivers come from.
Itshould be immediately obvious that while a computerprogram could be written to map the locations named inthe text, and draw a series of lines between themfollowing their order of appearance, this would not be aremotely accurate map of his route.
Further, therelationship between the geographical names and thetext relating to them is complex.
The anecdote aboutColwall is both preceded and followed by informationabout the city of Hereford;  and to some extent all ofthis text should be seen as information about the countyof Herefordshire.The problems become still larger when we examinethe agitators?
narratives, where placed appear regularlyin their speeches as well as in descriptions of theirjourneys, and geography provides an important part oftheir rhetoric.
Consider this from a report of a speechby O?Connor in 1838:He could not conclude without expressing hisdelight at having thus perfected the great chainbetween London and Edinburgh and Glasgow.
Allthe links were now perfect.
London, Newcastle,Carlisle, Glasgow, and Edinburgh had nowbecome forged as it were together, and althoughthe wages of corruption were taken from theprovinces to support the idle in the metropolis, yeta spirit was now growing up which nothing butjustice could put down.The same basic metaphor, but used lessgeographically, appears again here:You cannot move partially, because you are asone link in the great chain.
(Cheers.)
There is anend to sectional agitation;  you are eachanswerable to the other for the manner in whichyou should handle this cause.
(Cheers.)
Society isas a great chain.
On one end is a rotten link whichrepresents the Whigs, and on the other a rotten linkwhich represents the Tories (cheers and laughter);while you, the people, form the bulk of the chain,which is made stronger by the loss of the rottenlinks.
(Cheers.
)Sometimes, of course, geographical namesthemselves are used as metaphors.
Curiously, the TEIGuidelines include this example:After spending some time in our<placeName key="NY1">modern<placeName key="BA1">Babylon</placeName></placeName>,<placeName key="NY1">NewYork</placeName>,I have proceeded to the<placeName key="PH1">City of BrotherlyLove</placeName>In this case New York and Babylon are named togetherin such a way that it is quite clear that the ?modernBabylon?
refers to New York.
However, the mark-updoes not really make this relationship clear, and onewonders how the TEI would encode these excerpts fromearly nineteenth century autobiographers:A month?s stay in modern Babylon was quitesufficient for me, and, gasping like a fish out ofwater, I set my face towards the open country.On entering the ?Modern Babylon?
I wasalmost confounded by its ?huge uproar?
togetherwith the incessant bustle and hurry in which Ifound myself suddenly involved.Spent a night on the road then at about a quarterto eleven I entered the modern Babylon.
The dinand bustle and the never ceasing stream of vehiclesof every description rattling backwards andforwards here completely bewildered me.In all three cases, it is entirely clear from the contextthat ?Babylon?
refers to London, and it is the use of oneplacename as code for another that gives these excerptstheir interest.The TEI Guidelines are designed to be extended, andit is not too hard to envisage a set of additional tags orkeywords designed to bring out how a geographicalname is being used within the text of a travel narrative.The main possibilities would seem to be:?
As the author?s current location.?
As a reference back to a previous location.?
As a reference forward to a planned location.?
As a reference to a place which is not part of theauthor?s route.?
As a metaphor for another place.As important is a mechanism for associating sectionsof text with specific place-names, and this needs toembody some notion of hierarchy:  even in the mostconventional linear narrative, a series of descriptions ofvillages passed through also form a description of somelarger area.5   ConclusionThis paper is an initial discussion of a large topic,mainly concerned with practical examples andproblems.Although the descriptive gazetteers and travellers?accounts are very different kinds of material, the secondfar less structured than the first, in both cases analysisrequires not simply the identification of place-names butan identification of their roles.With the gazetteer entries, identifying the actualsubject of each entry is trivial, as it always appears atthe very beginnings of each entry.
However, todiscover the geographical location of each entry weneed to extract additional ?containing?
place-names.This is also relatively straightforward provided thesenames appear in our existing ontology/gazetteer.
This iswell illustrated by one of the few mistakes made by theexisting parsers:  the following entry is placed in Dorset,a mainland county, because the Channel Islands did notappear in the gazetteer:?
Alderney, one of the Channel Islands, about 7 milesfrom the coast of Normandy and 50.miles SE.
fromPortland Bill, Dorset; separated from Cape La Haguein France by the Race of Alderney.Roles in the travellers?
tales are clearly more diverse,and harder to define, but some notion of subjects,containers and relatives still seems appropriate, alongwith the rarer but more interesting metaphors.
Work isclearly needed to extend and possibly to substantiallychange current mark-up systems to capture suchinformation.ReferencesGregory Crane, Clifford E. Wulfman, David A. Smith.2001.
Building a Hypertextual Digital Library in theHumanities: A Case Study on London.
Paperpresented at JCDL 2001, Roanoke, Virginia, June2001.
(www.perseus.tufts.edu/Articles/jcdl01.pdf)Remnek, M.B., Skemp, B. and Wadsworth, S.,?Technologizing Women's Travel Writing: Issues &Implications?, available on-line from WTW site.Sperberg-McQueen, C.M.. and Burnard, L., eds.
2002.TEI P4: Guidelines for Electronic Text Encoding andInterchange.
Text Encoding Initiative Consortium.XML Version: Oxford, Providence, Charlottesville,Bergen.Humphrey Southall.
1991.
The tramping artisan revisits:labour mobility and economic distress in earlyVictorian England Economic History Review, 2ndser., 44: 272-96.Humphrey Southall.
1991.
Mobility, the ArtisanCommunity, and Popular Politics in early nineteenthcentury England.
In G. Kearns and C.W.
Withers(eds.)
Urbanising Britain:  class and community inthe nineteenth century.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, UK.Humphrey Southall.
1996.
Agitate!
Agitate!
Organise!
:Political travellers and the construction of a nationalpolitics, 1839-1880.
Transactions of the Institute ofBritish Geographers, NS, 21: 177-93.
