Let?s Paint the Town Red for a Few Hours:Composition of Aspect in IdiomsSheila R. GlasbeySchool of Computer ScienceUniversity of BirminghamEdgbastonBirmingham B15 2TT, UKS.R.Glasbey@cs.bham.ac.ukAbstractIt has recently been claimed that as-pect is compositional in idioms, justas it is in literal language (McGinnis2002).
We show that, although thisis true for many idioms, there appearto be a number of interesting excep-tions.
We present examples of idio-matic expressions where aspect isnot derived compositionally ?
or atleast, not in McGinnis?s sense.Many (but not all) of these excep-tions fall into a class described byJackendoff (1997a) as ?fake objectresultatives?.
We draw some tenta-tive conclusions about the natureand classification of those idiomswhich show apparent non-compositionality of aspect.
Fur-thermore, we suggest that such idi-oms might be regarded asaspectually compositional, if aspec-tual composition is taken to includeas part of its input Krifka?s (1992)?thematic relations?.1 Aspectual class of idiomsConsider the idiomatic verb phrase ?paint the townred?
(meaning, according to the Longman Diction-ary of Idioms (1979), ?have a very enjoyable time,esp.
in a lively and noisy manner?).
This phrase,according to our intuitions, and examples found ina web search using the Google?
search engine,combines readily with temporal for-adverbials toform sentences such as:1.
Mary and her friends painted the town red for afew hours [id].
(Note: ?[id]?
conveys that ?paint the town red?
herereceives an idiomatic interpretation.
)An example found in the web search is:2.
Board the Chiva Arubanita Party Bus ?
andpaint the town red for six hours [id].
(http://travel.discovery.com/destinations/fodors/aruba/tips.html, consulted 6/05/03).
?Paint the town red?
does not, however, combinereadily with temporal in-adverbials, making (3)difficult or impossible to interpret:3.
??
Mary and her friends painted the town redin a few hours1 [id].According to standard tests for aspectual class (see,e.g., Vendler 1967, Dowty 1979), this shows thatthe eventuality described by ?Mary and her friends1We ignore here the inceptive reading where ?in a fewhours?
measures the time between some contextuallydefined instant and the beginning of the painting.painted the town red?
2 is an activity rather than anaccomplishment.
Now compare a literal interpreta-tion of ?paint the town red?
.1a.
?
Mary and her friends painted the town redfor a few hours [lit].
(Note: ?[lit]?
conveys that ?paint the town red?
ishere interpreted literally.
)Since it may be difficult for the reader to ignore theidiomatic interpretation and focus on the literalone, we will replace ?red?
in (1a) by ?green?
.
Inorder to make the scenario more plausible, we willalso replace ?town?
by ?shed?
, assuming that theaspectual class of the eventuality described by theliterally-interpreted sentence is not thereby af-fected.1b.
?
Mary and her friends painted the shed greenfor a few hours [lit].It is now clear that (1b) is unacceptable or at bestmarginal.
(1c), on the other hand, is perfectly ac-ceptable:1c.
Mary and her friends painted the shed green ina few hours [lit].
?Mary and her friends painted the town/shedred/green?
, on a literal interpretation, is clearly,therefore, a description of an accomplishment andnot an activity.
Thus we have an example of aphrase which, when interpreted literally, has a dif-ferent aspectual class from when it is interpretedfiguratively, contra (McGinnis 2002).
Since theaspect conveyed by the literal interpretation is pre-sumably derived by the usual process of aspectualcomposition (as described by Krifka 1992, Smith1991 and others), we may conclude, at least for thetime being, that the aspectual class conveyed bythe idiomatic interpretation is non-compositional,i.e.
not derived by the usual process of aspectualcomposition.
According to this process, the aspec-tual class of the eventuality described by the fullsentence is derived by combining properties of theverb, its tense (etc.
), its object argument(s), any2We take aspectual class to be a property of eventuali-ties ?
an eventuality being a cover term for an event orstate.specified resultative state (?green?
in (1c)), its sub-ject argument, any adverbial modifiers and various?thematic relations?
between the object and theeventuality (see later).
An analysis such as that of(Krifka 1992) predicts, correctly, that ?Mary andher friends painted the shed green?
describes anaccomplishment.
McGinnis?
s claim is that the as-pectual class of idiomatically-described eventuali-ties is also compositional ?
thus ?Mary and herfriends painted the town red?
would describe anaccomplishment.
If McGinnis?
s claim were cor-rect, then presumably the aspectual class would bethe same under an idiomatic interpretation as undera literal interpretation (McGinnis 2002, p.668).We have identified a number of other relatedexamples, all of which fall into the class describedby Jackendoff (1997a) as ?fake object resultatives?
.That is, syntactically they appear to be resultatives,but the resultative state, on the idiomatic interpre-tation, is not ?real?.
Examples include:4.
I cried my eyes out for some time and then Iwent back to work.
(http://members.aol.com/wolfie1030/instinct.html,consulted 30/4/03).Clearly ?I cried my eyes out?
describes an activity(hence its compatibility with the for-adverbial).Yet ?I cried my eyes out?
, would, if taken as a lit-erally-interpreted resultative, be expected to de-scribe an accomplishment.
That is, if aspectualclass were derived by the usual compositional pro-cesses, we would expect an accomplishment.However, no examples were found in a web searchin which ?cried X?
s eyes out?
combines with atemporal in-adverbial.
Moreover, ?I cried my eyesout [id]?
fails other standard tests for accomplish-ments (e.g.
??
?It took me two hours to cry my eyesout [id].)
Intuitively, the reason for this is that thereis no clearly defined, natural endpoint to an even-tuality of (idiomatically) crying one?
s eyes out  ?there is no time point in the domain described bythe idiom which corresponds to the point at which,in the domain described by the literal interpreta-tion, one?
s eyes actually fall out as a result of thecrying.
In order to be an accomplishment, ofcourse, an eventuality must have such a clearlydefined natural endpoint.
The lack of such an end-point makes the eventuality an activity instead.
Theidiom  ?to cry one?
s eyes out?
does not convey sucha natural endpoint ?
it simply means, according tothe Longman Dictionary of English Idioms, ?to crya great deal?.3 Once again, then, we have a mis-match between the aspectual class of the literallydescribed eventuality (henceforth ?literal eventual-ity? )
and that of the idiomatically described even-tuality (henceforth ?idiom eventuality?
).Similar observations are made with a number ofother idiomatic expressions, where in each casecorpus usage and speaker intuitions strongly sug-gest an activity, while literal interpretation wouldgive rise to an accomplishment.Consider ?sang X?
s heart out [id]?
.
Examplessuch as (5), found in the web search, show that thisidiom can be combined with temporal for-adverbials.5.
Patsy sang her heart out for over two minutes.
(http://www.patsyclinehta.com/excerpts.htm,consulted 6/05/03).No examples were found where ?sang X?
s heartout?
combines with a temporal in-adverbial, andindeed such a construction sounds very odd:6.
??
Patsy sang her heart out in two min-utes/hours/days.Once more, then, we have a construction whichdescribes accomplishments under a literal inter-pretation, and activities under an idiomatic inter-pretation.The idiomatic expressions ?yelled X?
s head off?and ?poured X?
s heart out?
behave in a similar way.But note that it may just about be acceptable tosay:7.
Patsy poured her heart out in two hours, on thephone to her sister.
(We did not, however, find any such examples inour web search.
)3As one of the reviewers for the ACL workshop pointsout, expressions like ?cry X?
s eyes out?
may be seen as?conventionalized hyperbolae?
or exaggerations.Why should (7), at least according to our intui-tions, be marginally acceptable?
We suggest thatthe reason is that it may be possible to identify anatural endpoint to the process of (idiomatically)pouring out one?
s heart.
Taking the idiom to mean(following Longman) ?to tell all one?
s personalworries, problems, feelings, etc?
then it is possible,at least in principle, to see this process as having anatural endpoint when all the worries, problems,etc, have been expressed.
Thus there is somecounterpart, in reality, to the contents of the suf-ferer?
s figurative heart.
This provides, in turn, acounterpart to the end of the literal process ofpouring out the contents of  that heart.
This may beenough to make ?pour X?
s heart out [id]?
describe,at least in some contexts, an accomplishment, andtherefore be acceptable in combination with an in-adverbial.All the examples considered so far have beencases of Jackendoff?
s (1997a) class of ?fake resul-tatives?
.
There are other idioms, however, whichdo not belong to this class and which also lackcompositionality of aspect.Consider the idiom ?drive one?
s pigs to market?
,which means, according to Longman?
s dictionary,?snore?.
According to Krifka (1992) and others,the presence of  the location adverbial ?to market?
,pinpointing the destination or endpoint of the jour-ney, makes ?Fred drove his pigs to market?
de-scribe an accomplishment.
And indeed, if we takethe literal interpretation, then we can readily say:8.
Fred drove his pigs to market in two hours[lit].But (9) is not acceptable:9.
??
Fred drove his pigs to market for two hours[lit].On the other hand, (8) is not good on the idiomaticinterpretation.
If the sentence refers to Fred?
ssnoring, then (9), not (8), is acceptable.
Thus wehave another example where the idiomatic inter-pretation gives rise to an activity, while the literalinterpretation gives an accomplishment.
We mightspeculate at this point  (we return to this later) thatthe reason for this may be that there is no counter-part in reality to the destination described in thepretence world as ?to market?
.
There is no inherent,natural endpoint to the process of snoring.Interestingly, there is an idiom ?saw logs?
thatmeans ?
to sleep?
, mentioned in (Nunberg, Sag &Wasow 1994, p.497).
Here, the aspectual class ofthe eventuality described by ?Fred sawed logs?
isthe same on both the literal and idiomatic inter-pretations.
In either case, ?Fred sawed logs for twohours?
is acceptable and  ?Fred sawed logs in twohours?
is not.
Here, in both cases, we have an ac-tivity.
But the reason that the literal interpretationgives an activity is because ?logs?
is a bare plural ?the process of sawing logs (as opposed to that ofsawing six logs) does not have a natural endpoint.Thus it appears, here, almost ?
accidental?
that lit-eral and idiomatic interpretations give the sameaspectual class.Another idiom where aspectual class does notseem to be compositional is ?drowned X?
s sor-rows?
, which appears to describe an activity ratherthan an accomplishment:10.
Fred drowned his sorrows for a few hours.11.
?
?Fred drowned his sorrows in a few hours.On our intuitions and those of our informants, (10)is acceptable but (11) is not.Now compare ?drowned X?
s rats4?
, interpretedliterally, which appears to describe an accom-plishment:12. ?
Fred drowned his rats for a few hours.13.
Fred drowned his rats in a few hours.Unfortunately we were unable to find any exam-ples in our web search, so our claims here rest onlyupon our own judgements and those of our infor-mants.
The majority of the latter agreed with usfinding (12) unacceptable, but a minority found(12) marginal or even fully acceptable, on the as-sumption that Fred had a large number of rats.
Thisis the reason for the single ???
with which we label(12).Taking the majority view, we have here anotherexample of non-compositionality of aspectual classfor an idiom.
A similar ?
explanation?
presents it-self ?
there is no natural endpoint to the process of4Apologies to rat lovers.drowning one?
s sorrows, given that the idiommeans (according to Longman) ?
to seek escapefrom one?
s sadness, distress, etc., by drinking al-cohol?
.
Unless we can envisage the drinking proc-ess as having an inherent endpoint at which thefinal sorrow disappears5, then drowning one?
s sor-rows seems to describe an activity.
This contrastswith ?drowning one?
s rats?
, where there is pre-sumably a natural endpoint corresponding to theending of the life of the last rat.Although we have given a number of examplesof idioms with non-composition of aspect, we donot wish to claim that there is a multitude of suchexamples.
Indeed, examples of idioms lackingcompositionality of aspect were not particularlyeasy to find.
The majority of idioms do appear toshow such compositionality.
We now need an ex-planation of why this should be the case, while alsoaccounting for the exceptions.2  Towards an explanationMcGinnis (2002) claims that all idioms exhibitcompositionality of aspect.
We have shown thatalthough many idioms do so, there is a significantminority which do not.McGinnis takes the compositionality of idiomaspect to support Halle and Marantz?
s (1993) the-ory of Distributed Morphology (DM).
DM usesLevin and Rappaport Hovav?
s (1998) division ofmeaning into two components ?
structural andidiosyncratic, where the structural component in-teracts with the syntax, and the idiosyncratic com-ponent makes fine-grained distinctions irrelevantto the syntax.
In McGinnis?
s words (McGinnis2002, p.667),  ?
?
[DM] maintains that the struc-tural components of meaning are bundled intolexical items manipulated by the syntax, whileidiosyncratic components are added post-syntactically?
This ?
predicts that the syntactic5This may just be possible, but on our judgement it isstretching things.
It would involve being able to ?
countone?
s sorrows?
and to envisage their being consumed,as a gradual process (though not necessarily one by one)as the drinking proceeds.
Presumably one would then beable to say, at a certain point ?I have drowned all mysorrows now?
.
This does not seem impossible, but hassome feel of a joke about it, as though the idiom is be-ing deliberately stretched too far.derivation of idioms has semantic consequences.
?One of these consequences, McGinnis argues, isthat aspect is predicted to be compositionally de-rived in idioms.
In her words again (p.668), ?
?
itpredicts that even if a VP has a noncompositionalidiosyncratic meaning, it will have a compositionalstructural meaning.
Specifically, it will have thesame aspectual properties as any VP with the samesyntactic properties?
.McGinnis contrasts DM with Jackendoff?
s(1997b) theory of Representational Modularity(RM), which treats idioms as involving an arbitrarymapping between conceptual structure (CS) andsyntactic structure.
RM has both structural andidiosyncratic meaning encoded at CS, with the re-sult that both type of meaning will be subject toarbitrary mapping ?
thus predicting that aspect willbe non-compositional in idioms.If we are required to choose between RM andDM, then the fact that most idioms appear to showaspectual composition offers support for the formertheory.
However, we are more concerned with theneed to account for the idioms we have identifiedwhere aspect is not compositional.
Let us now re-turn to these exceptions and examine what is ?
dif-ferent?
about them.We remarked earlier that in the cases like ?paintthe town red?
, we have an eventuality in the do-main of literal interpretation (let us call this the?literal eventuality? )
which has a natural endpoint(the state of redness of the town), and a eventualityin the domain of idiomatic interpretation (hence-forth the ?idiom eventuality? )
which has no corre-sponding natural endpoint.
Further to this, weobserve that, not only does the literal eventualityhave a natural endpoint, but it has what Krifka(1992) calls the gradual patient property, wherebythe progress of the eventuality corresponds to agradual change in the state of one of the partici-pants of the eventuality ?
in this case the degree ofredness of the town.
Roughly speaking, as thepainting proceeds, the town gets redder.
There isno corresponding gradual patient property in theidiom eventuality.
Now, according to Krifka?
s(1992) account of aspectual composition, thematicproperties such as gradual patient are part of theinput to the process of aspectual composition.
Suchproperties explain why ?Fred stroked the cat?
is anactivity, while ?Fred washed the cat?
is an accom-plishment.
The subject NP, the object NP, and theverb tense are identical in the two cases ?
all that isdifferent is the fact that washing the cat involves agradual change of state of the cat (towards a stateof cleanliness), whereas stroking the cat involvesno such gradual change.This may give us a way of ?
rescuing?
the ideathat all idiom aspect is compositional.
If we followKrifka in assuming that the input to the composi-tional process involves not only properties of thesubject NP, object NP, verb, adverbials, etc, butalso thematic relations such as gradual patient,then the latter may well be different in the idio-matic interpretation of a phrase from that in theliteral interpretation.
We have just seen this in thecase of ?paint the town red?
?
there is a gradualpatient relation in the literal interpretation but notin the idiomatic one.Now, for many idioms, thematic relations maywell be the same in the idiomatic interpretation asin the literal one.
To take just one example:14.
Fred painted a bleak picture of the city.This may, of course, be read literally or as an id-iom.
In either case, it appears to describe an ac-complishment, given that we may add an in-adverbial but not a for-adverbial on either inter-pretation.14a.
Fred painted a bleak picture of the cityin/*for  a couple of hours [lit, id].In both cases there seems to be a gradual patientrelation between the state of completion of the?
picture?
(be it a literal picture, say on a canvas, ora verbal one) and the progress of the event of cre-ating it.
It is interesting to note, too, that the pic-ture exists in both cases ?
on the literalinterpretation there is a ?
real?
picture, and on theidiomatic interpretation there is something, such asa verbal description, which is described as a pic-ture.
Contrast this with ?paint the town red?
whereno equivalent of  ?
the town?
exists on the idio-matic interpretation.This suggests, returning to our earlier idea, thatthe cases where the aspectual class of the idiomeventuality corresponds to that of the literal even-tuality are (at least roughly) those cases wherecounterparts exist in the domain of idiomatic inter-pretation to the objects in the domain of literal in-terpretation, and where the thematic relationsbetween those objects and the eventuality are thesame in the literal and the idiomatic cases.
Thesecases appear to correspond with those idioms thatNunberg, Sag and Wasow (1994) classify as idio-matically combining expressions.
These are idioms?
whose parts carry identifiable parts of their idio-matic meanings?
(p. 497ff).
Nunberg, Sag and Wa-sow give as an example ?John was able to pullstrings to get the job?
, where ?pull strings?
meanssomething like ?
exploit personal connections?
, and?pull?
can be seen to correspond to ?exploit?
and?strings?
to ?personal connections?
.6Idioms which do not have identifiable ?
parts?
inthis way are called idiomatic phrases by Nunberg,Sag and Wasow.
They include expressions such as?saw logs?
, where there is no identifiable equiva-lent in the domain of idiomatic interpretation to thelogs in the domain of literal interpretation.
Theseidioms, Nunberg, Sag and Wasow suggest, must beentered in the lexicon as complete phrases.
In gen-eral, according to these authors, they cannot un-dergo passivisation, topicalisation, ellipsis andsimilar operations, as consequence of the fact thatthey do not have identifiable semantic parts.
Weare suggesting that, for the same reasons, they donot show compositionality of aspect.It seems, then, that we have found a way tocharacterise those idioms which do not undergoaspectual composition (or, at least, not in the senseof McGinnis, where the aspectual class is the sameon the idiomatic interpretation as it is on the literalone).3 ConclusionWe may conclude that a certain class of idiomsshow compositionality of aspect in the sense of(McGinnis 2002) ?
meaning that the aspectualclass is the same on the idiomatic interpretation asit is on the literal one.
This class of idioms we maytentatively identify as those that Nunberg, Sag andWasow (1994) call idiomatically combining ex-pressions.
(We need to be careful here, however,as it is possible that there may be idioms which areidiomatically combining expressions, but wherethe thematic relations differ in the literal and idio-6Nunberg, Sag and Wasow (1994) reject the term?compositional?
, used previously by them and others torefer to such idioms, on the grounds that ?composi-tional?
has been interpreted in a variety of differentways and may cause confusion.matic interpretations.
We are not clear at presentwhether or not this may be the case ?
further workis needed to investigate this.)
Idioms which do notbelong to this class (the ones that Nunberg, Sagand Wasow call idiomatic phrases) are able to de-scribe eventualities of a different aspectual classfrom the eventuality described in the literal inter-pretation.
(Of course the aspectual classes may, aswe saw earlier, be the same, purely by coincidence.This is true of ?Fred sawed logs?
, which describesan activity on both the literal and the idiomatic in-terpretation.
)We have also suggested that, if we take the pro-cess of aspectual composition to include, as in(Krifka 1992), thematic relations such as gradualpatient as its input, then idioms which are notidiomatically combining expressions can also besaid to undergo aspectual composition.
The differ-ence here is that, because the thematic relationsmay be different in the idiomatic interpretationthan in the literal interpretation, the result of theaspectual composition may also be different.
Thus,although these idioms can be said to undergo as-pectual composition, they will describe eventuali-ties which have an aspectual class that may bedifferent from the aspectual class described on theliteral interpretation.
This may have the interestingconsequence that, provided we identify the neces-sary thematic relations for these idioms, we maynot need to list their aspectual class in the lexicalentry for the idiom, but instead we may be able toderive their aspectual properties via the same kindof compositional process as for the first class, theidiomatically combining expressions.
All that willdiffer is the thematic relations.
It will be necessary,however, to explore this idea in more detail in fu-ture work.
Such work will need to involve the de-tailed investigation of a wide range of idioms andthe exact process of their aspectual composition.ReferencesDowty, D. 1979.
Word  Meaning and MontagueGrammar.
Dordrecht: D. Reidel.Halle, M. & A. Marantz.1993.
Distributed mor-phology and the pieces of inflection.
In Theview from Building 20: Essays in linguistics inhonour of Sylvain Bromberger, ed.
by K. Hale& S. J. Keyser, 111-176.
Cambridge, Mass.
:MIT Press.Jackendoff, R. (1997a).
Twistin?
the night away.Language 73, pp 534-559.Jackendoff, R. (1997b).
The Architecture of theLanguage Faculty.
Cambridge, Mass.
: MITPress.Levin, B.
& M. Rappaport Hovav (1998).
Buildingverb meanings.
In The projection of argu-ments: Lexical and compositional factors, ed.by M. Butt and W. Geuder, pp 97-134.
Stan-ford, Ca.
: CSLI Publications.Krifka, M. (1992).
Thematic relations as links be-tween nominal reference and temporal con-stitution.
In I.
Sag and A. Szabolsci, (eds.
),Lexical Matters, CSLI Lecture Notes, Univer-sity of Chicago Press, Chicago.McGinnis, M. (2002).
On the systematic aspect ofidioms.
Linguistic Inquiry 33.4, pp 665-672.Nunberg, G., I.
Sag & T. Wasow (1994).
Idioms.Language, 70:3, pp 491?538.Smith, C. (1991).
The Parameter of Aspect.
Klu-wer Academic Press, Dordrecht.Vendler, Z.
(1967).
Verbs and times.
In Linguisticsin Philosophy, pp.
97-121.
Ithaca, N.Y.: Cor-nell University Press.
