Turn-taking in Graphical Communication: an exploratory studyAtsue Takeoka1,2, Atsushi Shimojima1,2, Yasuhiro Katagiri21 School of Knowledge ScienceJapan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology1-1, Asahidai, Tatsunokuchi-machi, Nomi-gun, Ishikawa,923-1292, Japan{takeoka, ashimoji}@jaist.ac.jp2 ATR Media Information Science Labs2-2 Hikaridai Seika-cho, Soraku-gun, Kyoto,619-0288 Japan{katagiri}@atr.co.jpAbstractThis paper reports an investigation of theturn-taking functions of drawings ingraphical communication.
Based on theexamination of dialogue data collected thatinvolve collaborative drawing interactions,as well as spoken dialogue interactions, in ajoint problem solving task, we found that?drawing turns,?
in which the drawerpresents a piece of information to herpartner through drawing, had almost thesame turn-keeping effects as ?speech turns.
?1 Introduction2Dialogue is characterized by taking turns, that is,who should talk next and when should they talk.Studies on turn-taking in dialogues have mostlyfocused on phenomena and processes of dialogueparticipants taking turns in spoken conversations.But speech is not the only means of interaction.We draw maps to give directions.
We draw plansto discuss floor plans.
We make diagrams to solveproblems.
It is crucial to take account of thesenon-speech modes to obtain a comprehensiblemodel of taking turns as the basic mechanisms ofhuman interactions.
It is crucial to elucidate thenature of turn-taking in multi-modal setting, ascommunication tools become increasinglymulti-modal to include such modes as freedrawings, photographs, web page references andother visual information presentations.Several researchers have looked at roles ofnon-verbal cues, e.g., eye gaze, gestures and otherbodily movements, in coordinating turn-taking inspoken utterances.
Non-verbal cues were regardedas ancillary to speech by providing additionalsignals to support orderly turn-takings in speechdomain.
In contrast, when we expand the scope ofdialogues to include multi-modal interactions, weneed to consider the possibilities of non-speechturns, such as drawing turns, and cross-modal turnchanges, such as those between drawings andspeech.Based on graphical communication data wecollected, we conducted a preliminary analysis onthe existence and the functions of drawing turns.We found that drawing turns have almost the sameturn-keeping power as speech turns.Mechanism of dialogue interactions:turn-taking and groundingSacks, Schegloff and Jefferson (1974) notedsurprisingly orderly nature of taking turns in ourordinary conversations, and proposed a set of rulesto characterize the underlying mechanisms for theturn-taking structures in dialogues.We conduct dialogues with turn-takingsgoverned by the following rules.At each transition-relevance place1 of each turn:-If during this turn the current speaker hasselected A as the next speaker, then A mustspeak next.-If the current speaker does not select the nextspeaker, any other speaker may take the nextturn.-If no one else takes the next turn, the currentspeaker may take the next turn.In this notion of taking turns, the currentspeaker presents a piece of information to thepartner in a turn.
When a turn consists of clauses, itpresents a series of information.
Even when a turnconsists of a single word, it also presents a piece ofinformation.
To take a turn, the partner needs to1 Transition-relevance place is where the structure of thelanguage allows speaker shifts to occur.issue an utterance that is more than a particularsignal of acceptance of the information presentedby the current speaker.From a different perspective, Clark (1996)developed the notion of grounding to captureprocesses with which conversants establish a set ofinformation as a shared common ground foron-going (and possibly subsequent) dialogue.
In agrounding process, a conversant presents a piece ofinformation verbally or non-verbally, and thepartner issues a particular public signal to show thereceipt, understanding, or acceptance of thatinformation.On the basis of Clark?s work, Traum (1994)substantiated the process of grounding in afinite-state transition model.
The model specifieswhat contributions individual utterance in adialogue make to a grounding process and howindividual contributions combine themselves tomake a sequence that completes the grounding.
InTraum?s terms, such contributions are groundingacts, the units of utterance that can performgrounding acts are utterance units orUUs?according to their contribution to agrounding process, the sequences of utterance unitsthat complete the grounding are discourse units orDUs.
Table 1 shows the seven categories ofgrounding acts and their definitions.Table 1.
Seven categories of grounding actsInitiate(init)An initial utterance component of adiscourse unit.Continue(cont)A continuation of a previous actperformed by the same speaker.Acknowledgement(ack)An acknowledgement claiming ordemonstrating understanding of aprevious utterance.
It may be either arepetition or paraphrase of all or part ofthe utterance, an explicit signal ofcomprehension such as ?ok?
or ?uhhuh?, or an implicit signaling ofunderstanding.Repair(repair)Changes the content of the current DU.ReqRepair(reqRepair)A request for a repair by the otherparty.ReqAck(reqAck)Attempt to get the other agent toacknowledge the previous utterance.Cancel(cancel)Closes off the current DU asungrounded.Now, we can define a turn as a constituent ofone or more DUs that initiate a piece ofinformation.
The following figure schematicallyshows speech turns consisting of DUs that aremade of annotated UUs.A:initA-DUA:cont B:ack A:initA-DUB:ack B:initB-DUB Speech TurnA Speech TurnA:ackFigure 1.
Speech turns defined by the notion ofDUs and UUsIn graphical communication, especially insettings where one speaker gives information to apartner, communicator not only speak but alsodraw to present a piece of information.
Thus, usingthe definition of speech turns mentioned above,natural questions arise as to ?drawing turns?,namely, turns that have analogical characteristicsattributed to speech turns.This paper investigates this question indialogues in which one is instructed to informone?s floor plans to a partner.
Do drawing turnshave similar turn-taking rules to speech turns?How do drawing turns keep their turns?To address these questions, we collected aspoken dialogue data with drawings.
However,since participants used only one pen at a time, nosuch phenomena as taking turns with a pen wereobserved2.
Under this setting, our purpose in thisstudy is to account for the effect of keeping turnswhen participants are taking drawing turns.3 Method3.1 Data3.2 TranscriptionOur data consist of 2 dialogues.
Both dyads werefamiliar with each other: in one case they wereclose friends and in the other they were mother andson.
The objective of each dialogue is to informeach other of their floor plans.
We prepared a penand papers for the first dyad and two pens andpapers for the second.
However, the second dyadseldom drew at the same time.
A video camera wasused to videotape dyads and drawing surfaces fromabove.
They participated on a voluntary basis.We transcribed 16 minutes and 30 seconds of2 The partner could take a turn by using their finger todraw transparently.
However, this rarely occurred in ourdialogues.dialogues in total.
According to the objective ofeach dialogue, a person in each dyad firstrepresented their plans with a drawing, and thenthey communicated by pointing or addingdrawings for further explanation.
Then the otherperson in each dialogue did the same.
Therefore,we had four drawers in two dialogues.
Hereafter,we refer to a drawer as X and the other party as Y.We took one representative portion from eachdrawer.
The length of the transcriptions variedfrom one minute and 35 seconds to 5 minutes and42 seconds.
All audible words and word fragmentswere transcribed, including overlapping speech,nonlexical fillers (such as ?uh?
), and othervocalizations (such as laughter and harrumph).Silences of more than 100 milliseconds were alsowritten down and the time recorded.After audible transcriptions, we addedsegmented drawings in transcriptions, at whichpoint of the utterance the drawing segment startsand ends.
We defined the starting point as the timethe drawer begins to draw with a pen and theending point as the time the drawer changes grip,does not move the pen on the shortest track, ortakes their hand off of the drawing surface.3.3 Coding4 Results4.1On the basis of Traum?s finite-state transitionmodel of grounding, we divided all speech in ourdialogue data into utterance units (UUs), namely,?continuous speech by the same speaker,punctuated by prosodic boundaries (includingpauses of significant length and boundary tones)?
(Traum, 1994).
One of the authors then classifiedeach utterance unit into one of the seven categoriesof grounding acts.Summary of statisticsIn this section, we show a summary of the statisticsof speech and drawing data.
First, we counted thenumber of drawing segments and divided them intotwo groups.
One group of drawings were startedduring X?s utterance, followed by X?s utterances orX?s utterances followed the drawings.
Anothergroup of drawings were started during Y?sutterance or between Y?s utterances.
We call theformer X-drawings and the latter Y-drawings.There were 149 X-drawings and 8 Y-drawings.
Wefound four drawing segments by Y with Y?s fingerbut we excluded these from this summary.Second, we counted the number of utterances.Table 2 shows a summary of the statistics of thedialogue data.Table 2.
Number of Utterance Units and theirbreakdown of the seven categories of groundingacts and number of Discourse UnitsTotal X YUU 1028 587 441Grounding Actsinit 290 234 56cont 269 218 51repair 8 6 2reqRepair 6 0 6reqAck 5 5 0ack 344 70 274ack init 108 54 52DU 395 287 108*We also excluded utterances relevant to Y?s finger drawings.In this setting of dialogues, only X informed Yby drawing.
However, X initiated 2.7 times moreDUs than Y did.
The objective of the dialogues wasfor one party to inform their floor plan to the otherparty.
These summary data showed thatinformation flowed from X to Y not only bydrawings but also by utterances.4.2 SilencesWe first looked at the occurrences of silence inspeech.
There were 436 periods of silence of morethan 100 milliseconds in the portion analyzed.Silence was classified into 2 categories: duringdrawings and not during drawings.
There were 164of the former and 272 of the latter.
Figure 2 showedthe frequency distribution of silent periods for eachgroup.0.0%5.0%10.0%15.0%20.0%25.0%less than 100ms101ms-200ms201ms-300ms301ms-400ms401ms-500ms501ms-600ms601ms-700ms701ms-800ms801ms-900ms901ms-1000ms1001ms-1100ms1101ms-1200ms1201ms-1300ms1301ms-1400ms1401ms-1500ms1501ms-1600ms1601ms-1700ms1701ms-1800ms1801ms-1900ms1901ms-2000msmorethan2001msNot DrawingDrawingFigure 2.
Frequency distribution of silent periodsof more than 100msThe average time of silences during drawingwas 667ms and that of during not drawing was519ms.The data indicates that silences during drawingtend to be longer than those during not drawing.This suggests that drawings function asindependent turns.
An occurrence of a drawingturn can keep the next speech turns from starting,despite no speech is uttered at the time.4.3 OverlapsIf drawing turns work similarly to speech turns interms of their turn-keeping functions, interruptionsby overlapping speech should occur about the sameamount toward drawing turns and speech turns.Case 1 in Figure 3 schematically shows a regularspeech turn change structure, whereas Case 2 andCase 3, respectively, show a speech turn and adrawing turn interrupted by following speechturns.Figure 3.
Speech turns and drawing turnsinterrupted by speech turnsTable 3 shows the relative amount of speechturns and drawing turns which were followed byoverlapping next speech turns.
The result appearsto indicate that drawing turns are more amenable tointerruption than speech turns, though thedifference is not statistically significant (Z0= 1.26,p=0.21 two-tailed).Table 3.
Number of speech turn during not drawing(see Case 2 in figure 3)Total of X speech turns 153Overlapping X speech turns 17Ratio 11.1%Table 4.
Number of drawing turn during drawing(see Case 3 in figure 3)Total of X drawing turns 149Overlapping X drawing turns 25Ratio 16.8%Close examination of Case 3, in which drawingturns are interrupted by the following speech turns,revealed that some of the overlapping speech turnswere actually responses, either acknowledgmentsor request for repairs, directed toward drawingcontents.
An example of an acknowledgment inthe drawing context is found in the excerpt below.Case1: Ordinary speech turn-takingX Speech Turn Y Speech TurnCase3: Overlappint X?s drawing turn with Y?s speechturnCase2: Overlapping X?s speech turn with Y?s speechturnY Speech TurnX:ackY:initY-DUX Speech TurnX:cont X:initX-DUY:ack X:contX-DUX:initX:ackY-DUY:initY:ackX-DUX:init Y:ack X:contX-DUX:initY Speech TurnX:ackY:initY-DUX Drawing TurnX Speech TurnY:ackX-DUX:init Y:ack X:contX-DUX:initact UU Utteranceinit26 41.1 X: kou kocchino houni [mizumawariga ari](like here there is a sink)ack26 init27 42.1 Y:                                  [uraomote na](it is located back to back)Here, X was drawing a line between two housesshe already drew before, and directing Y?sattention toward the location of kitchen sinks inthem.
Y could recognize the location of the kitchensinks in the two houses from the drawing, and Y?ssubsequent short utterance ?uraomote na?
verballyconfirmed the relative locations of them.
Suchutterances were directed toward drawings andworked to give acknowledgments toward theircontents.
These types of utterances might appearas instances of initiation acts if we only look atspeech domain, but, actually, they do not constituteindependent initiation acts if we admit groundingacts that work across different modalities.Table 5 shows the result of recounting speechoverlaps by excluding cross modal responses.
Theresult shows that drawing turns and speech turnsare exactly the same (Z0=0.26, p=0.32 two-tailed)in terms of their vulnerability toward interruptions.Table 5.
Number of drawing turn during drawing(see Case 3 in figure 3)Total of X drawing turns 149Overlapping X drawing turns 19Ratio 12.8%5 Discussions6 ConclusionGenerally, when it is one?s turn to speak, the otherparty is less likely to cut into the turn.
They try topresent their information clearly to avoidoverlapping.
In other words, the present speaker?sspeech turn is  some form of resistance to the otherparty?s interruptions.
On the other hand, duringone?s drawing turn, even though part of thedrawing period is filled with silence and duringthat silence the other party could easily utter ?init?utterances, the data on periods silence showed thatlonger silent periods were allowed during drawing.We suppose that drawing turns has some form ofresistance to keep the other party from interruptingtheir to speak.In this study, the percentage of overlapped X?sspeech turns was 11.1%.
That is to say, X?s speechturns had 89.9% of resistance to keep turns.
In thesame way, X?s drawing turns was interrupted byY?s ?init?
or ?ack init?
utterances at 12.8%, whichshowed almost the same extent of resistance,87.2%.
Thus, our comparison suggests that theturn-keeping resistance of X?s drawing turns isalmost equivalent to that of X?s speech turns.The equivalence of the extent of resistance ofspeech and drawing turns also suggests that silenceduring drawing tended to be longer not because theother party could not speak while drawing butbecause he/she did not want to speak whiledrawing.
In other words, drawing could make anexcuse for not speaking while preserving thesmoothness of turn-taking interactions.Finally, within the data we analyzed, all thecases in which a speech turn overlaps a precedingdrawing turns were accompanied by co-temporalspeech by the drawer.
This is schematically shownin Case 3 of Figure 3.
In more than half of thesecases, the following speech makes an overlaps tothe preceding speech as well as to the drawing(Case 4 in Figure 4).
In contrast, althoughtheoretically possible, we did not find any cases inwhich bare drawing turns, e.g., withoutaccompanying speech by the drawer, wereinterrupted by the following speech turns (Case 5in Figure 4).Case4: Overlap of both X?s speech and X?sdrawing turn with Y?s speech turnFigure 4.
Drawing turns interrupted by a speechturnWe conducted a preliminary study on the drawingturns in graphical communication.
Based oncollected dialogue data that involve graphical aswell as spoken interactions, we conducted ananalysis of both speech and drawing turns.
Wefound that drawing turns have almost the sameturn-keeping effect as speech turns.
Furtherinvestigations are necessary on both semantic andgrounding contributions of drawings to developfuller account of graphical interactions.ReferencesClark, H. H. 1996.
Using language.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Sack, H., Schegloff, E. A.
& Jefferson, G. 1974.A simplest systematics for the organization ofturn-taking in conversation.
Language, 50,696-735.Traum, D. R. 1994.
A Computational Theory ofGrounding in Natural Language Conversation.Technical Report 545.
University of Rochester.X:initX-DUX:cont Y:ackX-DUX:initX Speech TurnX:contX Drawing TurnY-DUY:init X:ackY Speech TurnCase5: Overlapping independent X?s drawing turnwith Y?s speech turnX Drawing TurnY-DUY:init X:ackY Speech Turn
