Criterion for Judging Request Intentionin Response texts of Open-ended QuestionnairesINUI HirokoCommunications ResearchLaboratoryGraduate School of Science andTechnology Kobe Universityhinui@crl.go.jpUTIYAMA MasaoCommunications ResearchLaboratorymutiyama@crl.go.jpISAHARA HitoshiCommunications ResearchLaboratoryGraduate School of Science andTechnology Kobe Universityisahara@crl.go.jpAbstractOur general research aim is to extract theactual intentions of persons when theyrespond to open-ended questionnaires.These intentions include the desire tomake requests, complaints, expressions ofresignation and so forth, but here wefocus on extracting the intention to makea request.
To do so, we first have to judgewhether their responses contain the intentto make a request.
Therefore, as a firststep, we have developed a criterion forjudging the existence of request intentionsin responses.
This criterion, which isbased on paraphrasing, is described indetail in this paper.
Our assumption is thata response with request intentions can beparaphrased into a typical requestexpression, e.g., ?I would like to ...?,while responses without request are notparaphrasable.
The criterion is evaluatedin terms of objectivity, reproducibility andeffectiveness.
Objectivity is demonstratedby showing that machine learningmethods can learn the criterion from a setof intention-tagged data, whilereproducibility, that the judgments ofthree annotators are reasonably consistent,and effectiveness, that judgments basednot on the criterion but on intuition do notagree.
This means the criterion isnecessary to achieve reproducibility.These experiments indicate that thecriterion can be used to judge theexistence of request intentions inresponses reliably.1 IntroductionIn every aspect of society, it is necessary for usto ?know what the request is.?
This is becauseknowing what the request is plays an importantrole in allowing us to identify and solve problemsto achieve improvements.In recent years, the spread of electronic devicessuch as personal computers and the Internet hasallowed us to save most requests in machine-readable texts.
On the basis of these texts, researchand development have been conducted ?to knowwhat the request is?
as an element technology innatural language processing.
For example, theresearch includes text mining (Nasukawa, 2001)and information extraction (Tateno, 2003) forcustomer claims and inquiries, development of anFAQ generation support system to a call center(Yanase et al, 2002; Matsuzawa, 2002), an FAQnavigation system using Q&A stored a call center(Matsui, 2002), and the development ofrequirement capturing methods for extractingrequests made in meetings for softwaredevelopment (Doi, 2003).
However, ?to knowwhat the request is?
means to know the intention ofvarious people in society such as residents, users,customers and patients, and it is inadequate toextract only request expressions expressed literallyin texts.
For this reason, previous works are notsufficient to understand intentions.Against this background, (Inui et al, 1998; Inuiet al, 2001; Inui and Isahara, 2002) have beenstudying how to extract and classify requestintentions of respondents from responses of open-ended questionnaires (OEQs) which areaccumulated requests.
This paper describes thedevelopment of a criterion for judging requestintentions and an evaluation of the criterion interms of objectivity, reproducibility andeffectiveness.2 Development of the criterion forjudging request intentions2.1 Problems of an existing theory ofmodalityResponse texts of OEQs are the focus of attentionas data for text mining.
Researchers have tried toextract various types of information from thosetexts (Lebart et al, 1998; Li and Yamanishi, 2001;Osumi and Lebart, 2000; Takahashi, 2000).However, they have mainly used only keywords(mostly nouns) as the basic units of extraction.
Ifonly the characteristic key words are analyzed withregard to sentences such as  ?Company A?s beertastes good,?
?Company A?s beer does not seem totaste good,?
and ?Company B?s beer tastes betterthan company A?s,?
the attention is directedtoward ?company A/company B/beer/tastes/good,?and it is not possible to differentiate the meaningof the passages.Because of this, as (Toyoda, 2002) points out,text mining in the future needs to treat modality,which often changes the meaning of the sentencescompletely.
Two separate studies (Inui et al, 1998;Morohashi et al, 1998) have tried to process textsusing words like auxiliary verbs and auxiliary verbequivalents as modality information.
The modalityinformation focused on in both studies, however, isgrammatical expressions that have been acceptedin a previous Japanese language study.
Therefore,it is not possible to mechanically interpret requestsand questions displayed by respondents, speakersand writers if they don?t contain an auxiliary verbor an auxiliary verb equivalent.In Japanese language syntax, modality isdefined as the intention of the writer that isrepresented by grammatical expressions expressedgrammatically (Nitta and Masuoka ed., 1989) andtypically appears in the form of particles andauxiliary verbs in the sentence structure.
Althoughprevious text mining has focused on theseexpressions,  modality does not always appear inthe forms of grammatical expressions, and otherexpressions are more frequently used in real worldtexts.
Thus, processing only those grammaticalexpressions listed so far is not sufficient forextracting intentions, and it is necessary to have awide coverage of modality that expressesintentions.2.2 Criterion to judge request intentionsusing paraphrasingSurveyors try to know request intentions on therespondents through questionnaires, andrespondents try to convey their request intentionsto surveyors by responding to questionnaires.Therefore, it is important to establish a method thatcan extract the request intentions of therespondents based on the expressions given in theresponse texts.
In this section, we propose acriterion to judge the existence of requestintentions.First, we will analyze the request expressionsdeductively.
Native Japanese speakers canrecognize expressions such as te-hoshii (would likeyou to), te-moraitai (would like you to), te-kudasai(please do) and te-kure (do) as request.
These arelinguistically called direct request expressionsRequest?1) Whether it can bejudged to be a request bylinguistic intuition or notResponse2) Whether it can judgedby some criterion to be arequest or notFig.
1 Layers to judge expressions of requestsYES NONon-RequestRequest?
OthersYES NODirect expressionsof request1) Whether it includesexpressions of directrequest or notResponse2) Whether it can beparaphrased into a sentencecontaining ?te-hoshii?
astypical request or notFig.
2 Criterion to judge request intentionsExpressions ofrequest intentionOthersYES NOYES NOOthers(NIJLA, 1960) and able to indicate requestintentions.
Especially, te-hoshii is a typical requestexpression.In other words, these direct request expressionsare a clue to understand that there is a requestintended.
This recognition process is equivalent tothe first judgment in Fig.1, that is, ?whether aresponse can be judged to be a request by linguisticintuition or not.?
We regarded this as the first levelcriterion to judge request intentions.
It correspondsto the first level in Fig.2, the intent of which isequal to judge whether the response includes adirect request expression or not.Second, we consider the case that a responsedoes not contain a direct request expression.
In thiscase, non-requests in Fig.1 may be judged asrequests.
For example, based on the relation withsurveyors, respondents and the situation,?Guardrails should be built along sidewalks ofheavily congested roads?
and ?Building eco-friendly roads is important?
can be interpreted as?We want guardrails along the sidewalks?
and?We want you to think about the environment.
?However, the interpretation is due to ?some?implicit criterion as shown in the second judgmentin Fig.
1.
As the implicit criterion depends on thejudges, it is possible that the judgments differ1 .This means that the results of the judgment,namely request ?
in Fig.
1, are not re-createdconsistently.
Therefore, the second judge in Fig.1is not reproducible.Consequently we attempted to manifest theimplicit criterion as an explicit criterion to judgethe existence of request intentions.
Thismanifestation is the criterion ?whether a responsecan be paraphrased into a sentence containing te-hoshii as a typical request expression or not?
as thesecond judge in Fig.
2.
As this criterion is explicit,the judgment of the criterion does not depend onthe judges and agree consistently.
Therefore, thesecond judge in Fig.2, namely the proposedcriterion is reproducible and the results of thejudgment, namely the expression of requestintentions in Fig.2 is re-created consistently2.As mentioned above, we propose a criterion forjudging request intentions by paraphrasing aresponse sentence into a typical request sentence1  This is demonstrated by the results of the experimentdescribed in Section 4.2.2  This reproducibility is described in detail in Section 4.1.contained te-hoshii.
In Section 3, we evaluate theproposed criterion by a single judge analyticallyand objectively.
In Section 4, we evaluate theresults of experiments conducted by differentjudges from the viewpoint of reproducibility andeffectiveness.
These evaluations enable todemonstrate that the criterion, namely paraphrasingis an important method to determine the intentionsindependent of variety of surface expressions anddifferences among individual judgments.3 Evaluation by a single judge3.1 Analysis of response textsUsing the proposed criterion described in Section2.2, we analyzed and classified response sentencesmanually according to two considerations: (1) ifthey include direct request expressions such as te-hoshii and te-moraitai; and (2) if it is possible toparaphrase them into a sentence ending with te-hoshii.
To make the judgment for (1), we usedrequest expressions listed by (Morita and Matsui,1989).Expressions ofdirect requestsParaphrase Out of 3000sentences?
Included  Possible 547?
Included Not possible 3?
Not included  Possible 1190?
Not included  Not possible 1252Table 1 Results of applying criterionfor judging request intentions3The analysis data are part of the response textsof OEQs carried out to make the best use of theopinions of the citizens in future road planning(Voice report, 1996).
The original OEQ corpuscontains a total of 35,674 respondents and 113,316opinions.
The analysis data comprised 3,000sentences sampled at random after separating theplural sentences contained in the response text intosingle sentences.
The criterion in Section 2.2 wasused and the results are shown in Table 1.Line ?
in Table 1 includes sentences with directrequest expressions such as te-hoshii, te-kudasaiand te-kure.
All of these could be paraphrased intote-hoshii and accounted for about 20% of the 3,000sentences.
Line ?
includes direct requestexpressions that could not be paraphrased becausethey were used in quotations.
These examples areexceptional.
Expressions in line ?
correspond to3 Eight sentences were excluded from Table 1 because theywere ambiguous out of contexts.expressions of request intentions in Fig.2 inSection 2.2.
These expressions are shown in Table2.
Line ?
includes non-request expressions.Table 2 shows various forms of expressionsbased on parts of speech (POS), i.e., verbs, nounsand adjectives, that have not been consideredacceptable as modality expressions, even thoughthey are paraphrasable by te-hoshii, and thus theyare request expressions.
As described in Section2.1, several studies have been made on modality interms of  particles, auxiliary verbs, and auxiliaryverb equivalents.
However, little attention has beengiven to other POS in this regard.
This is becausemodality expressions have been primarilyconnected with the grammatical elements such asauxiliary verbs in syntax.
However, Table 2, whichlists expressions of request intentions, shows thatverbs, nouns and adjectives are actually alsoimportant elements that express modality.Previous works that aim to extract requests haveused pattern matching methods, and patterns thatmainly consist of the direct request expressionscorresponding to ?
in Table 1.
However, theresults of manual analysis for paraphrasabilityshown in Table 2 indicate that using the proposedcriterion enables many expressions of requestintentions to be extracted from responses.
Inaddition, we found a tendency for the number ofexpressions of request intentions direct requestexpressions, as shown in Table 1.
In this section,we have provided explanation for the coverage ofthe criterion by analyzing response texts.3.2 Evaluation of objectivity throughmachine learning methodsThis section shows that the possibility ofparaphrasing is learnable by machine learningmethods.
The data for the machine learningmethods were tagged by the expert that analyzedthe data in Table 1.
Our assumption is that ifmachine learning methods can learn theparaphrasability from the data, then the data aresaid to have been tagged consistently enough to bemechanically learnable.
This  indicates that thecriterion proposed in Section 2 is objectivelyapplicable to tag data.Machine learning methodsWe use two machine learning methods in thissection.
They are maximum entropy method (ME)(Beger et al 96) and support vector machine(SVM) (cristianini00)4, both of which have beenshown to be quite effective in natural languageprocessing.The task of a machine learning method is tomake a classifier that can decide whether aresponse is paraphrasable by te-hoshii or not.
Aresponse X is tagged possible if it is paraphrasable4 We used maxent (http://www.crl.go.jp/jt/a132/members/mutiyama/software.html) for ME learning andTinySVM(http://cl.aist-nara.ac.jp/~taku-ku/software/TinySVM/)for SVM learning.Type of POS Types of form of expression Example SentenceEnd-form inverbs andadjectives-??????(make?
to do) /-?????
(control)  etc.????????????????????????
(Increase greenbelt and make it easier to seesignposts)Used as noun -??(secure)/-??
(equipment) etc.
???????
(Secure car parks)Predicatesabbreviated-?
etc.
????????????????????
(Roadbuilding from the standpoint of the elderly,children, and the disabled)Verbs andadjectives ofexpectationand desire-????
(seek) /-?????
(expect) / -????
(desire) /-?????
(is desirable) /-?????
(is desired)/-???
(desire) /-?????
(request) etc.???????????????????????????????
(Roads and streets that givepriority to the disabled, the elderly, children, andthe weak are desirable)<attribute: emergency>-??????
(matter of urgency) /-?????
(first priority) /-???????
(think thatthe first thing to do) etc.????????????????????????????????????????
(It is all rightto build expressways in provincial areas, but whycan?t improving congested places come first?)<attribute:importance>-????
(is important) /-??????????
(think that it is also an important matter) /-????
(is important) /-??????
(shouldbe important) /-???
(that is ideal) etc.??????????????????????
(Ithink that the important matter is to make themanner of stopping vehicles thorough )Nouns forjudging value<attribute: necessity>-????????
(it may also be necessary)/-???????
(feel the necessity for) /-?????
(is indispensable) etc.????????????????????
(Cooperation of landowners is indispensable inroad building)Table 2 Expressions of requests and intention obtained byusing the criterion for judging request intentionsand impossible if not.
X is represented by a featurevector x = [x1, x2, ?
?, xl]whereGiven training data, a machine learning methodproduces a classifier that outputs possible orimpossible according to a given feature vector.
Weomit the details of ME and SVM.
Readers arereferred to the above references.We will compare three sets of features, F1, F2and F3, in the experiments below.
F1 consists ofword 1-grams, F2, 1-grams and 2-grams, and F3,word 1-grams, 2-grams and 3-grams.
For example,let X be a response consisting of a word sequence5w1, w1,?.., wm where w1 = ?b?and wm = ?e?are special symbols representing the beginning andthe ending of a response.
Let S1 be the set of 1-grams in X {wi |2 ?
i ?m-1}, S2, 2-grams in X{ wiwi+1 |1 ?
i ?m-1} and S3, 3-grams in X{ wiwi+1wi+2 |1 ?
i ?m-2}.
The F1, F2 and F3features contained in X are S1, S1?S2, and S1?S2?S3, respectively.ExperimentsThe data used for the experiments consisted of3,001 responses6.
The numbers of the responsestagged possible and impossible were 1,944 and1,057, respectively.
We used 10-fold crossvalidation to evaluate the accuracies of ME andSVM7.
For each iteration in the cross validation,8/10 of the data was used for training, 1/10, forparameter adjustment, and 1/10, for testing.
Theprecision, Pi, for iteration i isPi =We define P as the mean of the precisions for eachiterations, i.e., P = ?i Pi /10.
We henceforth call Pprecision.
The precisions of ME and SVM are inTable 3, together with a baseline precision 0.648(=1944/3001), which was obtained by tagging allthe responses possible.
In the table, the figures incolumns ?ME?
and ?SVM?
are the precisions ofME and SVM.
Line Fi (i=1,2,3) indicates that theprecisions in that line were obtained by using Fi as5 We used ChaSen (http://chasen.aist-nara.ac.jp/) to segmentan answer into a word sequence.6 This data was different from the response text analyzed inSection 3.1.7 We used the polynomial kernel for SVM.
We tried degrees 1and 2 d=1,2.
Since d=1 outperformed d=2, the results ofd=1 are in Table 3a  feature set.
We use one-sided Welch tests tomeasure the differences between precisions andsay ?statistically significant?
or simply?significant?
when the differences werestatistically significant at 1% level.Table 3 indicates that both ME and SVMoutperform the baseline by a large margin.
Thedifferences were, of course, statistically significant.Therefore, we can conclude that these methods arequite effective in this task.ME SVM BaselineF1 0.892 0.887 0.648F2 0.912 0.909 0.648F3 0.913 0.915 0.648Table 3 Precision of ME and SVMThis table also indicates that ME and SVM arecomparable in precision.
The differences ofprecision were not statistically significant.
We nextcompared the highest precisions in lines F1, F2, andF3.
F1 was significantly outperformed by both F2and F3, but there was not a significant differencebetween F2 and F3.
Consequently, we can useeither ME or SVM as a machine learning methodand F2 or F3 as a feature set.Table 3 demonstrates that we can expect about91% precision in deciding the paraphrasability byusing either ME or SVM.
This is a reasonably highprecision.
Therefore, we can conclude that thecriterion proposed in Section 2.2 is sufficientlyobjective and stable.4 Evaluation by different judgesIn Section 3, we described the manual analyticalevaluation by a single judge and the objectiveevaluation by machine learning that uses a corpusprepared based on the analytical evaluation.Section 4 refers to experiments carried out bymultiple different judges.4.1 Evaluation of reproducibility: judgmentof paraphrasing by multiple judgesThe subjects of this experiment were three malenative speakers of Japanese in their twenties whowere engineering majors.
The experiment wascarried out using a total of 24,000 randomsentences from the OEQ corpus described inSection 3.1 by applying the criterion proposed inSection 2.2.
If a response text included pluralsentences, they were separated into singlesentences as mentioned in Section 3.1.
Of thexi =number of correctly tagged answerstotal number of answers in the test data1   if X has feature i0   otherwise24,000 sentences, the three subjects A, B and Cwere each given 8,000 of them.
However, the pairsA and B, B and C, and A and C were each given4,000 common sentences, so that a variation ofsentence totaled 12,000.As shown in Table 1 in Section 3.1, directrequest expressions can be paraphrased with te-hoshii, therefore, we deal only with the judgmentof the second level in Fig.2, namely theparaphrasing into te-hoshii.
For the evaluation, weprepared a set of work instructions for the subjects,part of which is shown below.Work instructions1) Not only the end expression but also caseparticles, case particle equivalents and thosecontaining such expressions or expressions ofconnection are to be paraphrased.2) If te-hoshii is to be changed to a negativerequest of shite-hoshiku-nai (do not want), placethe word negative at the end.3) Not only functional words but also contentwords, furthermore, word order may be changed inparaphrasing#1 S(ource): ????????????
(Wethink that there are not enoughcar parks.)?
T(arget): ???????????
(We wantcar parks to be increased.
)The experimental results are given in Table 4,where P means possible to paraphrase and NPmeans not possible.
KC is the kappa coefficientbetween subjects (Cohen 1960).BA P NP Total KCP 2372 970 3342 0.48NP 36 622 658Total 2408 1592 4000CA P NP Total KCP 3123 264 3387 0.61NP 171 442 613Total 3294 706 4000CB P NP Total KCP 2119 50 2169 0.49NP 934 897 1831Total 3053 947 4000Table 4 Results of paraphrasabilityusing the criterionGenerally, the closer the kappa coefficient is to1, the higher the degree of agreement is obtained.There is a complete agreement when it is 1.
Ingeneral, the ranges [0.81-1.00], [0.61-0.80], [0.41-0.60], [0.21-0.40] and [0.00-0.20] correspond tofull, practical, medium, low, and no agreement,respectively.Therefore, as Table 4 indicates, the results of thejudging and the paraphrasing using the criterion bythe three subjects showed that there was substantialagreement between subject A and C, and mediumagreement between A and B, and B and C.These results indicate that the method based onthe criterion, whether used by a single judge or bydifferent judges(=subjects) for analysis andexperiment, enables requests and non-requests tobe distinguished.
Therefore, we can conclude thatusing the criterion enables even untrained peopleto reproduce the extraction of requests.Sentences such as #2 and #3 below areexamples of sentences that were agreed to be non-paraphrasable.
These include expressions ofintentions in which the current situation is acceptedpassively such as #2 ???????
(I think that it cannotbe helped),?
or in which the current situation isactively accepted such as #3 ??
?
?
?
?
(arewonderful)?.
Furthermore, #4 is a sentence thatbegins with a clear statement of reason ????
(the reason is).?
This indicates that a motive forrequests exists, and that a response formed bymultiple sentences often composes request-motiveadjacency in discourse structure.Examples of sentences that could not beparaphrased:#2 ???????????????????????
(I think that it cannot behelped if rise in charges isnecessary.
)?3 ?????????????????????????????????????
(Thetown and roads are wonderful as evenpeople in wheelchairs can doshopping by themselves here andthere with ease and wander about.
)#4 ?????????????????
(Thereason is that overall developmentcannot be hoped for.
)This analysis shows that paraphrasable sentencesindicate requests and non-paraphrasable sentencesindicate the acceptance of the current situations orthe motives for requests.4.2 Evaluation of effectiveness: judgingintention without using the criterionTo evaluate whether the proposed criteriondescribed in Section 2.2 is effective or not, wecarried out an experiment to see if a responseshows requests or not without the criterion.
Thetwo subjects, D and E, who took part in thisexperiment were both native speakers of Japanese.Subject D was a male student in his twenties fromthe education department of a university, andsubject E was a female student also in her twentiesfrom the literature department of a university.
Theyused the same data of 4,000 sentences that wereused by the subjects B and C in Section 4.1.
Thesubjects D and E did not consult with each otherand carried out the work separately.
We providedthem with the following instructions before askingthem to start the work.?
Each response sentence is context-free.?
Judge intuitively, and mark 1 if you think thesentence shows a request, and mark 0 if youdo not .?
Make sure to mark either 1 or 0.The results of the experiment are given in Table5, where 1 and 0 in the right table correspond to Pand NP in Table 4.
We show the data againbecause subjects B and C used the same data assubjects D and E. In Table 5, the kappa coefficient(KC), between D and E is lower than that betweenB and C. Moreover, it is the lowest among all thosegiven in Tables 4 and 5.
The KC of 0.17 meansthere is no agreement between D and E.The results indicate the rate of agreement ishigher for judgments made using the criterion thanfor subjective judgments.
That is to say, this provesthe effectiveness of the criterion.?
??
1 0 Total ?
P NP Total1 562 1880 2442 P 2119 50 21690 39 1517 1556 NP 934 897 1831total 601 3397 3998 total 3053 947 4000KC for D&E 0.17 KC for B&C 0.49Table 5 Results for experiment for effectiveness4.3 Examination of evaluation resultsWe examine here mainly the cases in which noagreement was obtained with respect toparaphrasing in the experiment described inSection 4.1.
Table 4 shows the cases wheredisagreement was considerable.
The results forthese cases, shown in Table 6, indicate thatdisagreement is obtained when the sentences areparaphrased into the forms including clauses ofcause and reason indicated by ?node?
(because) as#5.
The clause is underlined in the target sentencein #5.#5 S:????????????????
(A narrowroad is made even narrower)T: ?????????????????(node)???????????
(Because the narrowroad is made even narrower, I wouldlike to see something done aboutit.
)The source sentence #5 is a statement showing thecondition of the road being narrow.
This statementcan be seen as a motive for a request in the targetsentence of #5.
That is to say, the source sentence#5 itself shows not the content of a request but the?motive for request.?
The three subjects disagreedin their judgments on whether or not the ?motivefor request?
sentence was paraphrasable as shownin the bottom line of Table 6.
As the table indicates,disagreement rates of 64.4%, 51.5%, and 9.0%were obtained between A and B, A and C, and Band C. The reason for these high disagreementrates was that we did not give clear directions inthe work instructions.
The sentences which theparaphrasing includes ?node?
are not requests andshould not be extracted.
This means thesesentences should have been considered to be non-paraphrasable.On the other hand, with regard to ?motive forrequest?
sentences, there was an example #1 inSection 4.1 in which the work instructionsrequested the subjects to paraphrase such asentence.
That is, the work instructions suggestedthat the source sentence #1 ?I think that we do nothave enough car parks?
is a motive for the request?I want car parks to be increased.?
This kind ofinadequate instruction led to instability in the workdone and might have increased the disagreementrates obtained in the judgment.However, according to the data prepared by theexpert referred to in Section 3.2, ?motive forrequest?
sentences cannot be paraphrased into te-hoshii, and machine learning has confirmed thatthe data are objective.
Therefore, it can beconsidered that the work of removing ?motive forrequests?
sentences can be done stably.
This meansExaminees ??
??
??No.
of paraphrase includes node 648 224 89A 645 194 ---B 3 --- 3subjectC --- 30 86No.
of disagreed paraphrasing  1006 435 984Rates of node in disagreements (%) 64.4 51.5 9.0Table 6 Disagreed paraphrase including causeand reason clauses ?node?that if the work instructions give clear directionslike ?if you are able to add node at the end of asentence, that sentence should be regarded not as acontent of request, but a motive of request,?
thenthe rate of agreement may be improved.5 ConclusionWe have developed a criterion for judging requestintentions.
We evaluated this criterion from threepoints of view.
The first evaluation was to analyzethe data applying the criterion by a single judge.From this analysis, it was found that this criterionmakes it possible to extract requests and that thecoverage can be guaranteed compared withprevious studies.
Moreover, a corpus was preparedbased on the analysis and was used for a machinelearning experiment.
From this experiment results,we confirmed the criterion using a paraphrase wasobjective.Furthermore, by different judges, the secondevaluation was made from the experimentconducted by three subjects.
The rate of agreementfor the paraphrasability was high, which indicatedthat the results of requests extraction were re-created using the criterion.
This proves thereproducibility of the criterion.In the third experiment, two subjects judged thesentences without using the criterion to seewhether or not there was a request in each responsesentence.
A comparison of the results of the secondand the third experiments showed that a higher rateof agreement was obtained with the method usingthe criterion.
This confirmed the effectiveness ofthe criterion.In future work, we will analyze ?motives forrequest?
sentences found from the examinations,and prepare a criterion for distinguishing betweenrequest motives and the contents of requestintentions.ReferencesAdam L. Berger, Stephen A. Della Pietra, and Vincent J. DellaPietra.
1996.
A maximum entropy approach to naturallanguage processing.
Computaional Linguistics, Vol.22,No.1, pp39-71.Jacob Cohen.
1960.
A Coefficient of Agreement for NominalScales.
Educational and Psychological Measurement.
20,37-46.Nello Cristianini and John Shawe-Taylor.
2000.
AnIntroduction to Support Vector Machines.
CambridgeUniversity Press.Kouichi Doi, Naoyuki Horai, Isamu Watanabe, YoshinoriKatayama and Masayuki.
Sonobe.
2003.
User-orientedRequirements Capturing Method in AnalyzingRequirements Capturing Meeting.
Transactions of IPSJ,vol.44 No.1, pp48-58.The Committee for Roads in the 21st Century Basic PolicyBoard, Road Council.
1996.
Voice Report.Hiroko Inui, Kiyotaka Ucihmoto and Hitoshi Isahara.
1998.Classification of Open-Ended Questionnaires based onAnalysis of Modality.
Proceedings of the 4th AnnualMeeting of the ANLP, pp540-543.Hiroko Inui, Masaki Murata, Kiyotaka Uchimoto and HitoshiIsahara.
2001.
Classification of Open-Ended Questionnairesbased on Surface Information in Sentence Structure.Proceedings of the 6th NLPRS2001, pp315-322.Hiroko Inui and Hitoshi Isahara.
2002.
Proposition for?Extended Modality?
?Extraction of Intention in Open-ended response texts-.
Technical Report of EICE, Vol.102No.414, NLC2002-43, pp31-36.Ludovic Lebart, Andre Salem and Lisette Berry.
1998.Exploring Textual Data, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 14-20.Hang Li and Kenji Yamanishi.
2001.
Mining from OpenAnswers in Questionnaire Data Using Statistical LearningTechniques.
Proceedings of the 4 IBIS2001.
pp129-134.Kunio Matsui and Hozumi Tanaka.
2002.
The Navigation tothe Stored Q&A data using Simple Questions.
TechnicalReport of IEICE, Vol.102 No.414, NLC2002-40, pp13-18.Hirofumi Matsuzawa.
2002.
FAQ Generation Support SystemUsing Structured Association Pattern Mining and NaturalLanguage Processing.
Proceedings of the FIT2002, pp69-70.Yoshiyuki Morita and Masae Matsuki.
1989.
ExpressionPattarn of Japanese, ALCMasayuki Morohashi, Tetsuya Nasukawa and Touru Nagano.1998.
Text Mining: Knowledge Acquisition from enormoustext data ?
recognition of intention -.
Proceedings of the57th Annual Meeting of IPSJTetsuya Nasukawa.
2001.
Text Mining Application for CallCenters.
Journal of the Japanese Society for ArtificialIntelligence, Vol.16, No.2, pp219-225.Noboru Ohsumi and Ludovic Lebart.
2000.
Analyzing Open-ended Questions: Some Experimental Results for TextualData Analysis Based on InfoMiner.
Proceedings of theInstitute of Statistical Mathematics.
Vol.48, No.2, pp339-376The National Institute for Japanese Language.
1960.
Aresearch for making sentence patterns in colloquialJapanese.
1.
On materials in conversation.
Shuei Publishers.Yoshio Nitta and Takashi Masuoka.
1989.
Japanese Modality.Kurosio Publishers.Kazuko Takahashi.
2000.
A supporting System for Cording ofthe answers from Open-Ended Question.
SociologicalTheory and Methods, vol.15, No.1.
149-164.Masakazu Tateno.
2003.
The Method to extract Textual?Kansei?
Expression in the Custmer?s Voice.
IPSJ SIGNotes, NL-153-14, pp105-112.Yuki Toyoda.
2002.
Translation from Text Data to NumericData ?Points for Attention in Text Mining PreparatoryProcessing as Seen from the Analyst?s.
Journal of theJapanese Society for Artificial Intelligence, Vol.17 No.6.pp738-743.Takashi Yanase, Satoko Marumoto, Isao Nanba and RyoOchitani.
2002.
Parsing Question Texts Using the PredicateExpressions of the Sentence End.
Proceedings of the 8thAnnual Meeting of the Association for NLP, pp647-650.
