Pointing to places in a deductive geospatial theoryRichard WaldingerArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI Internationalwaldinger@ai.sri.comPeter JarvisArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI Internationaljarvis@ai.sri.comJennifer DunganEcosystem Science andTechnology BranchNASA Ames Research Centerjennifer@gaia.arc.nasa.govAbstractIssues in the description of places are discussedin the context of a logical geospatial theory.This theory lies at the core of the system Ge-oLogica, which deduces answers to geographi-cal questions based on knowledge provided bymultiple agents.1 IntroductionMany questions cannot be answered from information ina single geographical source; often the answer must bededuced from information provided by several sources.It may not be obvious which sources to consult.
Becausemultiple sources seldom agree on conventions of nomen-clature or notation, it becomes a problem to determinewhat place corresponds to a particular description.
Thesame name may apply to many places, and the same placemay have many names.In the system GeoLogica, the coordination betweenmultiple information sources is carried out by an auto-mated deduction system, or theorem prover, that operatesin a formal geospatial theory.
GeoLogica differs from asearch engine in that, instead of merely finding a list ofdocuments with vocabulary that matches the question, itattempts to understand the question and provide an an-swer.In developing this system, we have been forced to de-velop systematic ways for naming places, and for identi-fying places corresponding to given descriptions.In this paper, we shall first describe the GeoLogica sys-tem.
We?ll present the representation of place names anddiscuss mechanisms for finding places corresponding to agiven description.
We?ll discuss the solution of a sampleproblem, mention some related work, and describe pro-posed extensions.2 Outline of GeoLogicaQuestions are posed to GeoLogica in a subset of Englishand translated into logic by a natural language parser,the system Gemini (Dowding et al, 1993).
The logi-cal form of the question is rephrased as a theorem andpresented to the theorem prover SNARK (Stickel et al,2000).
(A knowledgeable user of GeoLogica may pre-fer to bypass the parser and phrase the query directly inlogical form.)
The geospatial theory that SNARK usesfor this application consists of a set of axioms, logicalsentences that provide definitions and describe propertiesof important spatial constants, functions, and relations,including those in the logical form of the query.
WhenSNARK proves a theorem, it shows that the theorem fol-lows logically from the axioms in the theory.
SNARKalso has an answer-extraction mechanism; in addition toproving the validity of the theorem, it can extract from theproof an answer to the query encoded in the theorem, us-ing mechanisms originally developed for automated pro-gram synthesis as well as question answering.
(Manna andWaldinger, 1980)Using the appropriate axioms, SNARK transforms anddecomposes the query to simpler and simpler subqueries.If the right subqueries of the query are answered, SNARKcan extract the answer to the main query from the proof.Answers may be logical terms or, when demanded, visu-alizations, such as maps or satellite images.
There maybe many proofs of a theorem, and each proof may yield adifferent answer; it is possible to induce SNARK to findmore and more proofs of the same theorem, and hencemore and more answers to the query.SNARK has some geospatial knowledge that is builtinto its axioms, but it has access to a far larger bodyof knowledge through its procedural attachment mech-anism.
Procedural attachment allows subqueries to beanswered by external knowledge sources, which may beprograms or data bases and may reside on any machineaccessible through the Web.
We shall use the generic term?agent?
for an external program invoked by the procedu-ral attachment mechanism.The capabilities of agents are advertised by axioms inthe theory, and the agents themselves are linked to sym-bols of the theory, so they may be invoked when they areappropriate.
The procedural-attachment mechanism al-lows SNARK to behave as if the information possessedby the external agents were represented as axioms in thegeospatial theory.3 AgentsAmong the external agents we have been accessing are?
the Alexandria Digital Library Gazetteer (Hill et al,1999): a repository of information about some sixmillion place names, including a latitude/longitudeor bounding box, a geographical type, a list of alter-native names, a small map, and a list of regions thatinclude the place in question.?
the CIA World Factbook (Central IntelligenceAgency, 2002): an almanac of most of the world?scountries, including geographic, economic, and po-litical information about each, such as its principalsubdivisions, bordering countries, capital cities, re-ligions, and principal exports.?
the ASCS (Pease et al, 2002) search engine, whichsearches the Web for pages that are encoded inDAML (the DARPA Agent Markup Language) andextracts their content; much of the Factbook hasbeen encoded in DAML and is actually accessedthrough ASCS.?
the TextPro (Appelt and Martin, 1999) information-extraction engine, a system that can derive informa-tion from English text documents.?
a variety of procedures for performing numeri-cal and geographical computations, such as thoseinvolving latitudes and longitudes and boundingboxes.?
a number of providers of maps and other geograph-ical images, including TerraVision (Reddy et al,1999), NIMA?s Geospatial Engine, Generic Map-ping Tools, the NASA Goddard Distributed ActiveArchive, and the NASA Landsat Project.A new agent can be added to the system by introduc-ing one or more axiom that advertise its capabilities andintroducing a link between a symbol in the theory and theagent.4 Answer extraction from proofsA query to GeoLogica is translated by Gemini into a log-ical expression Q[?x], which contains a variable ?x.
(Ourconvention is to prefix variables with question marks.
)This is taken as a theorem to be proved.
In this con-text, the variable in the theorem stands for an object tobe found.
The query asks us to find a value for ?x suchthat Q[?x] must be true.
We may write the logical formof the query asfind ?x such that Q[?x].During the proof, the variable ?x will be instantiated, thatis, replaced by other terms, which may in turn containother variables to be instantiated.Let us give a simple example.
Suppose our query isfind ?x such that mother(john, ?x).In other words, our task is to find an entity ?x that is themother of John.
Assume that our theory contains the ax-iommother(john, sue),i.e., the mother of John is Sue.
Then the proof is immedi-ately complete, and the variable ?x is instantiated to sue.That is, Sue is the answer to our query.Of course, in general, the answer will not be providedby a single axiom; a sequence of inferences will be nec-essary, and components of the answer will only be dis-covered gradually.5 The geospatial theoryThe geospatial theory provides the meanings for the sym-bols in the query, describes the relationships between var-ious geospatial concepts, advertises the capabilities of ouragents, and serves as a repository of knowledge in itsown right.
One of the first problems we had to face indeveloping this theory was to provide a way of repre-senting named geographical features.
It is desirable forsuch a place to have a name that allows us to identify ituniquely.
For instance, while Springfield, United Statesdoes not uniquely specify a town, Springfield, Illinois,United States does.We have developed a hierarchical naming scheme thatallows us to mimic the mechanism used in addressingmail to provide a logical term that designates a namedplace.We distinguish between?
regions, which stand for areas on Earth, not neces-sarily contiguous.?
geographical feature types, such as countries, cities,lakes, or schools.?
subregion indicators, such as Illinois or Springfield,which name subregions of a given region.Then our named regions are built up as follows:?
Earth is the entire Earth.?
feature(?geographical-feature-type,?subregion-indicator,?region)?is the subregion of ?region whose nameis ?subregion-indicator and whose type is?geographical-feature-type.Our convention is that ?region is a variable that stands fora region, and so forth.For instance,feature(country, Canada, Earth)stands for the country Canada, andfeature(city,Paris,feature(country, France, Earth))stands for the city Paris, France.
GeoLogica abbreviatescountries by their names; thus Canada is simply canada.It is not intended that notations of the above form areto be used by people; the average user of GeoLogica willnever see them.
They are used for the internal represen-tation of places as terms in a logical theory.Nothing guarantees that terms of the above form standfor places that exist or are unique:feature(city,springfield,united states)is not unique, andfeature(city, new-york, japan)does not exist.Properties of these terms are specified by axioms in thegeospatial theory.It should be understood that a function symbol suchas feature does not stand for a program that can be com-puted; it is a notation for speaking about a place.Strings, Names, and PlacesIn formulating the geospatial theory we have found itnecessary to distinguish between strings, names, and theentities they stand for.
For instance, canada is a sym-bol that denotes the actual country Canada, a region onEarth.
The string ?Canada?, on the other hand, is merelya string, that could be the name of a person rather than acountry.
Between them we have the nameregionq("Canada")which denotes the name of the country Canada, not thecountry itself.
Here regionq maps a string into the cor-responding name, although a corresponding region maynot exist.
We do not assume that a country has a uniquename, nor is it impossible for the same name to stand fortwo countries, although this is more common for citiesthan for countries.
The relation between the name for aregion and the region itself is called region-val.
In otherwords,region-val(regionq(?region-string),?country)is true if ?region-string is a name for ?country.
Thus, forexample,region-val(regionq("Canada"), canada)is true because ?Canada?
is a name for the countryCanada.Geographical Feature TypesIt is necessary to deal explicitly with geographical fea-ture types within a geospatial theory.
We may be askedto find a feature of a certain type.
The Alexandria Digi-tal Library Gazetteer requires us to specify the type of aregion before it will attempt to find it.
We have incorpo-rated the ADL?s feature type classification scheme, whichis hierarchical.
For example, capital is a subtype of city,which is a subtype of populated place.We also distinguish between types and their namestrings, because different agents may have different con-ventions for specifying types.
The ADL, for instance,uses plural strings to stand for types.
Thus the string?countries?
corresponds to the geographical feature typecountry.6 Latitude/longitude pairs and boundingboxesAnother way of describing places on Earth is by coor-dinate systems, such as latitude and longitude.
Thereare many representations for latitudes and longitudes, interms of numbers or strings.
For example, the 37th Northlatitude can be represented by the signed string ?37?
orthe compass string ?37N?.
We can also use decimal nota-tion, or the notation based on degrees, minutes, and sec-onds.
Different knowledge agents will produce differentrepresentation of latitude and longitude as outputs, andexpect different representations as inputs.
For instance,the Alexandria Digital Library Gazetteer agent acceptsand produces latitudes and longitudes in signed string no-tation.
The agent that computes the distance between lat-itude/longitude pairs requires latitudes and longitudes incompass notation.
The axiom that advertises an agentmust specify the notations expected and produced.
Thegeospatial theory, therefore, must discriminate betweenthese notations.
Also, some agents will be able to convertfrom one representation to another.For latitudes and longitudes represented in compassnotation, there is a function symbollat-long-compass(?lat-compass,?long-compass)that yields the corresponding latitude/longitude pair.Similarly, for the signed notation, there is the functionsymbollat-long-sign-string(?lat-sign-string,?long-sign-string).The bounding box of a region is the smallest rectanglethat encloses the region, where the sides of the bound-ing box are made of latitude and longitude lines.
Ournotations for bounding boxes resembles those for lati-tude/longitude pairs.
Thusbounding-box-sign-string(?lat-sign-string1,?lat-sign-string2,?long-sign-string1,?long-sign-string2)is the bounding box determined by the four numbersgiven in signed string notation.
The numbers correspondto the north, south, east, and west extremes, respectively,of the region in question.
Note that the bounding box ofa region may contain a lot of terrain outside the region inquestion.
The bounding box of the United States includesmuch of Canada and Mexico.In the language of the geospatial theory, region-to-lat-long(?region) is the function that maps a region into itsbounding box.The geospatial theory can be extended to deal with rep-resentations of the boundaries of regions, such as vectorsof latitude/longitude pairs.The Procedural Attachment MechanismThe procedural attachment mechanism allows an agentthat is attached to a symbol in the theory to be executedwhile the proof is in progress.
Let us consider a sim-ple example.
Suppose that our proof-in-progress containssomewhere the termplus(?real, 2),where ?real stands for a real number.
Assume that thesymbol plus is attached to an agent, an ordinary pro-gram, that performs numerical addition.
Because ?real isa variable that has not yet been instantiated, or assigneda value, the agent cannot operate.
But now assume that,at some step in the proof, the variable ?real is instantiatedby constant 3.
Then the resulting termplus(3, 2)is sent to the external addition program, which returns theconstant 5.The Alexandria Digital Library gazetteer is used forseveral purposes, and the gazetteer is procedurally at-tached to more than one symbol in the theory.
For in-stance, the symbol place-to-lat-long invokes the gazetteersimply to find the bounding box corresponding to someplace whose name is ?region-string and whose type isnamed ?geo-feature-type-string.place-to-lat-long(?region-string,?geo-feature-type-string,?lat-sign-string1,?lat-sign-string2,?long-sign-string1,?long-sign-string2).The above place-to-lat-long is used mainly to findcountries, which are usually uniquely specified by theirnames.For example, suppose our proof-in-progress containsthe formulaplace-to-lat-long("Zimbabwe", "countries",?lat-sign-string1,?lat-sign-string2,?long-sign-string1,?long-sign-string2).Then the ADL Gazetteer will be invoked to find thebounding box for Zimbabwe.
The variables in the aboveformula will be instantiated appropriately.
SNARK willbehave exactly as if the axiomplace-to-lat-long("Zimbabwe", "countries","-15.22","-22.93","33.65","25.11").were included in the geospatial theory.
For this reason,we call the above sentence a ?virtual axiom.
?Other symbols are procedurally attached to more com-plex invocations of the ADL, which find a region thatis a subregion of a given named region, bounding box,or both.
These invocations are necessary when there aremany places with the same name, and we need to tell theGazetteer which one we mean.Axioms that Advertise the Capabilities of an AgentBy advertising an agent with one or more axioms, weallow it to be invoked when it is appropriate.
This makesit easy to add new agents without reprogramming the sys-tem.
When a new query is presented, the agents that areappropriate for its subqueries stand forward, invoked notby name but as a by-product of the theorem-proving pro-cess.Some of the simplest of these axioms are those that ad-vertise agents that translate from one notation to another.For example, the agent that translates from the signedstring notation to the compass notation for latitude andlongitude is advertised by the axiomlat-long-compass(?lat-compass, ?long-compass) =lat-long-sign-string(lat-compass-to-sign-string(?lat-compass),long-compass-to-sign-string(?long-compass)).Here lat-compass-to-sign-string and long-compass-to-sign-string are function symbols with procedural attach-ments to programs that perform the conversion from com-pass notation to signed string notation, for latitudes andlongitudes, respectively.Applying this axiom to a lat-long pair in compass no-tation, such aslat-long-compass("37N", "122E")will yield the termlat-long-sign-string(lat-compass-to-sign-string("37N"),long-compass-to-sign-string("122E")).Because of the procedural attachments to the functionsymbols, the compass notation will be converted tosigned string notation, yielding the term lat-long-sign-string(?37?, ?-122?
).Now let us look at one of the axioms that advertisesthe Alexandria Digital Library Gazetteer.
The followingaxiom will invoke the gazetteer to find the bounding boxfor a country:(region-to-lat-long(?country) =bounding-box-sign-string(?lat-sign-string1,?lat-sign-string2,?long-sign-string1,?long-sign-string2))<=(region-val(regionq(?region-string),?country) &place-to-lat-long(?region-string, "countries",?lat-sign-string1,?lat-sign-string2,?long-sign-string1,?long-sign-string2)).In other words, to find the bounding box (in signed stringnotation) for a country, find a string that can serve as aname for the country and submit that string, with geo-graphical feature type string ?countries?, to the gazetteer.The resulting four number strings will correspond to thedesired bounding box.7 A Sample Problem.Let us consider a problem solved by GeoLogica to illus-trate the discovery of a place characterized by a logicalcombination of properties.
The query isShow a petrified forest in Zimbabwe within 750miles of the capital of South Africa.Here, our convention is that ?show?
means to display asatellite image, using the TerraVision three-dimensionalterrain viewer.The logical form of the query isfind ?x such thatshow(?x) &patient(?x, ?y) &petrified-forest(?y) &in(?y, zimbabwe) &within-dist-of(?y,within-dist-of(?z, ?u)) &mile-unit(?z) &count(?z, 750) &capital(?u) &capital-of(?u, south-africa).In other words, we want to find ?x which is a showing of?y, where ?y is a petrified forest that is in Zimbabwe andwithin a distance ?z of ?u, where ?z is in units of milesand has a magnitude of 750, and ?u is the capital of SouthAfrica.We will not follow the proof in detail; it will be de-scribed informally, with indication of where the principalagents were invoked, and what virtual axioms were intro-duced.To show a region in TerraVision, it is necessary to findthe center of its bounding box, because that is the pointwe have TerraVision focus on.
To find a petrified forest inZimbabwe, we first find the bounding box of Zimbabwe;this is given by the virtual axiomplace-to-lat-long("Zimbabwe", "countries","-15.22","-22.93","33.65","25.11"),as we have seen.Then we search for petrified forests within that bound-ing box, checking to see that they are indeed in Zim-babwe.
The subquery isplace-to-lat-long-part-of-type-bounds(?region-string, "petrified forests","Zimbabwe", "countries","-15.22","-22.93","33.65","25.11"?lat-sign-string1,?lat-sign-string2,?long-sign-string1,?long-sign-string2).This causes an invocation of the Alexandria Digital Li-brary Gazetteer in a more complicated way than before.We only specify the type, petrified forest, of the regionwe are looking for, not its name; we search only withinthe bounding box of Zimbabwe; and we insist that thefound region be a subregion of the country Zimbabwe.The location of the single petrified forest in Zimbabweis given by the virtual axiomplace-to-lat-long-part-of-type-bounds("Makuku Fossil Forest","petrified forests","Zimbabwe", "countries","-15.22","-22.93","33.65","25.11""-15.65","-15.65","29.95","29.95").Note that, though we have requested a bounding box,the ADL has actually given us a latitude/longitude pair-15.65, 29.95; the north and south latitudes, and the eastand west longitudes, are respectively the same.It is still necessary to ensure that the petrified forestwe have found satisfies the additional constraint, that itbe within 750 miles of the capital of South Africa.
Thename of the capital of South Africa, Pretoria, is discov-ered by invoking the ASCS search engine, which containsthe DAML encoding of the CIA World Factbook, includ-ing the capitals of countries.To ensure that the forest is within 750 miles of Pre-toria, we first find the latitude and longitude of Pretoria,using the ADL again.
We then use a geographical com-putational agent to ensure that the distance between thelatitude/longitudes for the forest and for Pretoria is suf-ficiently small.
The virtual axiom provided by the agentislat-long-dist("25.75S","28.16667E","15.65S","29.95E","708.0386").Note that this agent requires compass notation?it willnot accept signed strings.
The agent determines that thedistance between Pretoria and the forest is 708 miles,within the 750-mile limit that was specified in the query.8 SNARKAlthough many theorem provers can be used for ques-tion answering, SNARK is particularly well suited, for anumber of reasons.?
It has strategic controls that allow it to exhibit highperformance in a particular subject domain, findingproofs of hundreds of steps in theories with hun-dreds or thousands of axioms.?
It has a mechanism for extracting answers fromproofs.?
It has a procedural attachment mechanism.?
It has special built-in procedures for reasoning effi-ciently about space and time.For those who are concerned, it is a first-order logictheorem prover with resolution and paramodulation, im-plemented in Common Lisp.
It has been used in NASA?sAmphion system, for automatic software composition,and the Specware formal software development systemof the Kestrel Institute, as well as several SRI systems.The current geospatial theory has about a thousand ax-ioms.9 Other query formsHere are some other forms of queries that can be an-swered using the current implementation of GeoLogica:Is Zimbabwe north of South Africa?What is the capital of Zimbabwe.What is the distance from Arcturus, Zimbabweto the capital of Cuba?Display the Generic Mapping Tools map for abeach in Thailand.Show a cave in Afghanistan within 100 milesof Kandahar, Afghanistan.Show another.Show a place in which Mohammed Atta metwith an Iraq official.A question such as ?Show another?
is treated by allow-ing SNARK to continue where it left off, finding anotherproof to the previous theorem, and hence another answerto the previous question.
This can be done repeatedly un-til the set of answers found is depleted.The last question uses TextPro to establish that Mo-hammed Atta visited the airport at Ruzyne, Czech Re-public, on June 2, 2000.
At the same time, the allegedIraq secret service al Ani was with the Iraq embassy tothe Czech republic.
Embassies are in capital cities, andthe ADL Gazetteer tells us that Ruzyne is less that 7 milesfrom Prague, the capital of the Czech Republic.
TerraV-ision then displays a satellite image of Ruzyne.
It mightbe mentioned that it is unclear whether such a meetingever did take place.10 Use of the gazetteerThe ADL Gazetteer is the agent we rely on most.
Wehave found that we needed to exhibit care in two areas,the treatment of variant or alternative names and the treat-ment of parts or subregions.Let us illustrate the alternative names problem.
Foreach place name, the gazetteer maintains a set of alterna-tive names.
It generally prefers the local name for a placeto the English name.
Thus, ask for Prague, Czechoslo-vakia and it will give you Praha.
Ask for Bangkok, Thai-land, and it will give you Krung Thep.On the other hand, the gazetteer also returns the namesof places with names that contain the name we want.Search for Chicago, Illinois, and we will find ChicagoRidge, Chicago Heights, and East Chicago, as well as?Chicago (country seat)?, which is the place we want.Thus we must be careful to accept true alternative names,such as Chicago (county seat) and Praha, while discard-ing false alternative names such as East Chicago.We have also gone through some trouble to ensure that,in searching for a place name within a region, we donot capture places that are within the bounding box ofthe region but outside the region itself.
For instance, inearlier implementations, when searching for Kansas City,Kansas, we would also find Kansas City, Missouri.
Thebounding box of Kansas contains both cities.
Neither cityis listed directly as a part of a state.
Both cities were listedas parts of places that contained the string ?Kansas?
intheir names.
Kansas City, Missouri, is part of the KansasCity MO topographic map, for instance.
So we wouldfind both cities.This problem has been solved by adopting a more pre-cise test of subregion membership; we follow a chain ofregions that contain Kansas City, until we get the actualstate of Kansas.
Thus, Kansas City, Kansas, is listedas a part of Wyandotte County, which in turn is part ofKansas.11 Relation to other workThere is a large body of work, not surveyed here, in us-ing theorem proving to answer questions or to synthesizeprograms from specifications.
The approach of using pro-cedural attachment to a logical theory to coordinate mul-tiple agents is relatively new, but see Infomaster (Gene-sereth et al, 1993) and Ariadne (Knoblock and Minton,1998).
The system CYC (Lenat and Guha, 1998) in-cludes a large theory of spatial reasoning and now alsoincorporates procedural attachment.Fonseca et al (Fonseca et al, 2002) are developinga geographical ontology, but it seems not to include ax-ioms, only vocabulary.
(A theory is an ontology in whichthe meaning of the symbols is pinned down by axioms.
)Hobbs (Hobbs et al, 1999) is leading a team in build-ing a more spatial ontology and theory in DAML.
Theseshould be valuable resources for us.12 Plans for Future WorkRather than merely finding and displaying individualplaces, we hope to introduce capabilities for dealing withand manipulating data, obtained from online agents, forcollections of places.
We could ask for differences, aver-ages, and maximums, or compare figures from differentyears.
Results could be displayed in charts and tables.Although GeoLogica may answer a question appropri-ately, it is usually poor at explaining or defending its an-swer.
Yet its user may not wish to accept the answerwithout question, particularly if the veracity of any of thesources is in doubt.
The proof of the theorem containsa full explanation, but most people do not find logicalproofs easy to understand.
We plan to develop a morecomprehensible explanation facility, in which an under-standable explanation will be extracted from the proof,just as the answer itself is now.SNARK has facilities for temporal reasoning, includ-ing date and time arithmetic and the relationships be-tween temporal intervals.
However, we have not yetintroduced time into the geospatial theory.
Taking thisstep will enable us to deal with changes, such as histor-ical changes in the names and boundaries of countries,changes in the environment, weather, and the movementof populations and individuals.So far we have been dealing with isolated questions,but it may be more realistic to imagine an information-seeking dialogue, in which the user of GeoLogica posesa series of questions, each refining or elaborating on theone before, and some providing new information to beused in answering future questions.We have added facilities for extracting informationfrom English text (TextPro), but we have not yet used thisin the geographical domain.
Care must be observed be-cause information obtained through information extrac-tion is not so reliable as that obtained from other sources.We are currently applying similar techniques to pro-vide tools of interest to intelligence analysts.13 ConclusionAutomating question answering forces us to look closelyat the relationship between descriptions and places, and alogical geospatial theory is an ideal arena for making thisrelationship explicit.Acknowledgments This research has been supportedby the NASA Intelligent Systems Program, the ARDAAquaint Program, and the DARPA DAML Program.We would like to thank Doug Appelt, Chris Culy, JohnFry, Jerry Hobbs, David Martin, Martin Reddy, SusanneRiehemann, Mark Stickel and Mabry Tyson for contribu-tions to the ideas behind this work.ReferencesDouglas E. Appelt and David L. Martin 1999.Named entity recognition in speech: ap-proach and results using the TextPro systemhttp://www.nist.gov/speech/publications/darpa99/html/-ie30/ie30.htmCentral Intelligence Agency 2002.
The world factbook2002 http://www.cia.gov/cia/publications/factbook/John Dowding, J.
Mark Gawron, Douglas Appelt, JohnBear, Lynn Cherny, Robert Moore, and DouglasMoran.
1993.
GEMINI: A natural language systemfor spoken-language understanding.
Proceedings ofthe 31st Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, 54?61.
Ohio State University,Columbus, OhioF.
Fonseca, M. Egenhofer, C. Davis.
G. Camara, and N.Bletter 2002.
Semantic granularity in ontology-drivengeographic information systems Annals of mathemat-ics and artificial intelligence, e6(1?2):121?151.Michael R. Genesereth, Arthur M. Keller, and Oliver M.Duschka.
1997.
Infomaster: an information integra-tion system.
SIGMOD Record (ACM Special Inter-est Group on Management of Data,26:539?542.
OhioState University, Columbus, OhioLinda L. Hill, J. Frew and Q. Zheng.
1999.
Geographicnames: The implementation of a gazetteer in a georef-erenced digital library.
D-LibJerry Hobbs et al 2003.
A DAML spa-tial ontology.
http://www.daml.org/listarchive/daml-spatial/0002.htm.Craig A. Knoblock and Steven Minton.
1998.
The Ari-adne approach to web-based information integration.IEEE Intelligent Systems, 13(5):17?20.Douglas B. Lenat and R. V. Guha.
1994.
Enabling agentsto work together Communications of the ACM, 37(7)Zohar Manna and Richard Waldinger.
1980.
A deductiveapproach to program synthesis.
ACM transactions onprogramming languages and systems2:90?121.Adam Pease, John Li, and Chris Barbee.
2002.
DAMLagent semantic communications service (ASCS)http://oak.teknowledge.com:8080/daml/damlquery.jspMartin Reddy, Yvan G. LeClerc, Lee Iverson, and NatBletter.
1999.
TerraVision II: Visualizing massive ter-rain databases in VRML.
IEEE computer graphics andapplications (special issue on VRML).
19(2)30?38.Mark E. Stickel, Richard J. Waldinger, and Vinay K.Chaudhri.
2000.
A guide to SNARK.
SRI Interna-tional, Menlo Park, CA.
