Extracting Information on Pneumonia in Infants Using NaturalLanguage Processing of Radiology ReportsEneida AMendoncaBiomedicalInformaticsColumbiaUniversityNew York, NY,USAem264@columbia.eduJanet HaasInfection ControlNew-YorkPresbyterianHospitalNew York, NY,USAjah9012@nyp.orgLyudmilaShaginaBiomedicalInformaticsColumbiaUniversityNew York, NY,USAls303@columbia.eduElaine LarsonPharmaceuticalandTherapeuticalResearchColumbiaUniversityNew York, NYUSAel123@columbia.eduCarol FriedmanBiomedicalInformaticsColumbiaUniversityNew York, NYUSAcf9@columbia.eduAbstractNatural language processing (NLP) iscritical for improvement of the healthcareprocess because it has the potential to en-code the vast amount of clinical data intextual patient reports.
Many clinical ap-plications require coded data to functionappropriately, such as decision supportand quality assurance applications.
How-ever, in order to be applicable in the clini-cal domain, performance of the NLPsystems must be adequate.
A valuableclinical application is the detection of in-fectious diseases, such as surveillance ofhealthcare-associated pneumonia in new-borns (e.g.
neonates) because it producessignificant rates of morbidity and mortal-ity, and manual surveillance of respiratoryinfection in these patients is a challenge.Studies have already demonstrated thatautomated surveillance using NLP tools isa useful adjunct to manual clinical man-agement, and is an effective tool for in-fection control practitioners.
This paperpresents a study aimed at evaluating thefeasibility of an NLP-based electronicclinical monitoring system to identifyhealthcare-associated pneumonia in neo-nates.
We estimated sensitivity, specific-ity, and positive predictive value bycomparing the detection with clinicians?judgments and our results demonstratedthat the automated method was indeedfeasible.
Sensitivity (recall) was 87.5%,and specificity (true negative rates) was94.1%.1 IntroductionSeveral studies have demonstrated the value ofnatural language processing (NLP) technology fora variety of healthcare applications.
For example,NLP techniques have been used to analyze andstructure narrative patient reports in order to pro-vide data for applications, such as automated en-coding, decision support, patient management,quality assurance, outcomes analysis, and clinicalresearch (Baud et al, 1995; Fiszman et al, 2000;Friedman et al, 1994; Friedman et al, 1999b;Gundersen et al, 1996; Haug, Ranum, and Fre-derick, 1990; Sager et al, 1995).
Additionally, datamining and knowledge discovery techniques havebeen used to automate the development of rulesthat detect clinical conditions by interpreting datagenerated from the natural language processingoutput of narrative reports (Wilcox and Hripcsak,2000).
NLP is potentially an invaluable tool forhealthcare because it enables access to a rich andvaried source of clinical data.
However, adequateperformance is critical for practical clinical appli-cations as well as timeliness.One type of infectious disease that is importantto monitor is healthcare-associated pneumonia inpreterm and full-term neonates because it remainsa significant cause of morbidity and mortality inthat population (Whitsett et al, 1999).
The inci-dence of pneumonia in Neonatal Intensive CareUnits can be high as 10% in the United States(Gaynes et al, 1996), with mortality varying from5-20% in cases of acquired pneumonia (Gaynes etal., 1996; Zangwill, Schuchat, and Wenger, 1920).Healthcare-associated pneumonia is an infectionthat is acquired during hospitalization, or in emer-gency departments and outpatient clinics, and it isneither present nor incubated at the time of admis-sion.The diagnosis of healthcare-associated pneu-monia in neonates is extremely challenging, sinceneonates often do not exhibit ?typical?
signs andsymptoms of this infection (Bonten, 1999; Corderoet al, 2002; Cordero et al, 2000; Craven and Ste-ger, 1998; Flanagan, 1999).
In most cases, the finaldiagnosis is confirmed only by microbiologic cul-ture, but it is difficult to obtain adequate specimensin neonates because of the invasive nature of thisprocedure (Heyland et al, 1999).
Additionally,culture results are not timely (Cordero et al, 2002)because results are produced after 2 days, whereasresults of radiology reports are usually obtainedwithin 2 hours.Surveillance require routine collection andanalysis of relevant data, which must be promptlydistributed to the appropriate health care providers,who then must use the data to take action and fur-ther prevent morbidity and mortality (Thacker, etal., 1986).
Data provided by surveillance tools canbe used for several purposes: (a) to identify thenatural incidence of particular events, (b) to detectsituations that require epidemiologic control meas-ures, (c) to guide actions, allocation of resources,and interventions (Gaynes et al, 1996).
Surveil-lance tools provide baseline information on trendsand geographic distribution of conditions.
An im-portant aspect is the ability to detect an outbreak atthe stage when intervention may affect the ex-pected course of events (AHRQ, 2002).
In order tofacilitate infectious disease surveillance, severalmeasures have been developed at the nationallevel.
The Centers for Disease Control and Pre-vention (CDC), for example, has implementedmeasures to improve data collection and sharingfor surveillance purposes.
The National Nosoco-mial Infectious Surveillance System (NNISS)(Richards et al, 2001) is concerned with data stan-dards and sharing on healthcare associated infec-tions.
The National Electronic DiseaseSurveillance System (NEDSS) focuses on stan-dards and the response to biothreats.2 BackgroundAt the New York Presbyterian Hospital, a gen-eral NLP system in the clinical domain, calledMedLEE (Medical Language Extraction and En-coding System) (Friedman et al, 1994), is rou-tinely used to parse and encode clinical reports.
Ithas been satisfactorily evaluated for clinical appli-cations that require encoded data that is found indischarge summaries and radiology reports(Friedman et al, 1999b) (Friedman and Hripcsak,1998; Friedman et al, 1999a).
Hripcsak et alshowed that, for particular clinical conditionsfound in chest radiographs, which included pneu-monia, the performance of MedLEE was the sameas that of physicians, and was significantly supe-rior to that of lay persons and alternative auto-mated methods (Hripcsak et al, 1995).
In anotherstudy to evaluate a clinical guideline and an auto-mated computer protocol for detection and isola-tion of patients with tuberculosis, Knirsch et al(Knirsch et al, 1998) demonstrated that automatedsurveillance is a useful adjunct to clinical man-agement and an effective tool for infection controlpractitioners.
That detection system monitored ra-diology reports encoded by MedLEE for evidenceof radiographic abnormalities suggestive of tuber-culosis along with other data in the patient reposi-tory that was already coded, such as the patient?shospital location (for isolation status), laboratoryand pharmacy data for immunological compro-mised status.
Most importantly, the system de-tected patients who should be isolated that werenot detected using the normal protocol (i.e.
manualdetection).
MedLEE has also been extended toprocess pathology reports, echocardiograms, andelectrocardiograms, but evaluations of perform-ance in these areas have not yet been undertakenbecause evaluation is very costly in terms of timeand personnel.3 Methods3.1 Overview of NLP SystemMedLEE is composed of several different moduleswhere each module processes and transforms thetext in accordance with a particular aspect of lan-guage until a final structured output form is ob-tained.
The structured output consists of primaryunits of clinical information (i.e.
findings, proce-dures, and medications), along with correspondingmodifiers (e.g.
body locations, degree, certainty).Figure 1 shows an example of a simplified versionof structured output that is generated as a result ofprocessing the sentence there is evidence of severepulmonary congestion with question mild consoli-dation changes.The output that is generated represents twoprimary clinical findings, congestion and changes.The first finding has a body location modifierlung, stemming from pulmonary, a certainty modi-fier high, stemming from evidence of, and a de-gree modifier high, stemming from severe.
In thesecond finding, the certainty modifier moderate,corresponds to question, the degree modifier lowcorresponds to mild, and the descriptor corre-sponds to consolidation.
Values for degree andcertainty modifiers were automatically mapped toa small set of values in order to facilitate subse-quent retrieval.
The actual form of output gener-ated by MedLEE is XML, but Figure 1 shows acompatible and more readable form.Below is a brief overview of the system.
Moredetailed descriptions were previously published(Friedman et al, 1994).
When MedLEE was origi-nally developed, it was intended to be used inconjunction with decision support applications,where high precision was critical.
Therefore, it wasinitially designed to maximize precision and re-quired a complete parse.
However, subsequentclinical applications required high recall, and wediscovered that flexibility was critical.
Currently,MedLEE attempts to find a complete parse andonly resorts to partial parsing when a full parsecannot be obtained.
When generating the struc-tured output, the method that was used to obtainthe parse is saved along with the structured outputso that the user can filter in or out findings ac-cordingly.Preprocessor - The preprocessor recognizes sen-tence boundaries, and also performs lexical lookupin order to recognize and categorize words,phrases, and abbreviations, and to specify theirtarget forms.
The lexicon was manually developedusing clinical experts because of the need for highprecision.
In a study we used the UMLS (UnifiedMedical Language System) (Lindberg, Hum-phreys, and McCray, 1993), a controlled vocabu-lary developed and maintained by the NationalLibrary of Medicine, to automatically generate alexicon.
This lexicon was subsequently used byMedLEE instead of the MedLEE lexicon to proc-ess a set of reports.
Results showed a significantloss of precision (from 93% to 86%) and recall(from 81% to 60%) when using the UMLS lexicon(Friedman, et al, 2001).
Terms with ambiguoussenses may be disambiguated in this stage based oncontextual information.
The preprocessor can alsohandle tagged text so that lexical definitions can bespecified in the text, bypassing the need for lexicallookup for cases where the text is already tagged.This feature is particularly useful for handling lo-cal terminology (such as the names of local facili-ties), as well as for resolving domain specificambiguities.Parser - The parser uses a grammar and lexicon toidentify and interpret the structure of the sentence,and to generate an intermediate structure based ongrammar specifications.
The grammar is a set ofrules based on semantic and syntactic co-occurrence patterns.
Development of manual rulesfinding: congestionbody_location: lungcertainty: highdegree: highfinding: changescertainty: moderatedegree: lowdescriptor: consolidationFigure 1 ?
Sample output in simplifiedform for the sentence there is evidenceof severe pulmonary congestion withquestion mild consolidation changes.are costly, and we are currently investigating sto-chastic methods to help extend the grammar auto-matically.Composer - The composer is needed to composemulti-word phrases that appear separately in theinput sentence to facilitate retrieval later on.
Forexample, the discontiguous words spleen and en-la rged  in spleen appears enlarged would bemapped to a phrase enlarged spleen so that a sub-sequent retrieval could look for that phrase ratherthan the individual components.Encoder - The encoder maps the target terms inthe intermediate structure to a standard clinicalvocabulary (i.e.
enlarged spleen is mapped to thepreferred vocabulary concept splenomegaly) in theUMLS.Chunker - The chunker increases sensitivity byusing alternative strategies to break up and struc-ture the text if the initial parsing effort fails.3.2 Design of Feasibility StudyA two-year crossover design study was conductedindependently of this NLP effort (03/01/2001-01/31/2002, 03/01/2002-01/31/2003) in two neo-natal intensive care units (NICU) in New YorkCity to study the impact of hand hygiene productson healthcare acquired infection:?
NICU-A: a 40-bed care unit, which caresfor acutely ill neonates, including those re-quiring surgery for complex congenitalanomalies and extra corporeal membraneoxygenation?
NICU-B: a 50-bed unit associated with alarge infertility treatment practiceA trained infection control practitioner (ICP),using the CDC National Nosocomial InfectionSurveillance System (NNIS) definitions, per-formed the surveillance for infections in both units.Cases were reviewed manually, including analysisof computerized radiology, pathology and micro-biology reports as well as chart reviews and inter-views with patient care providers.
The diagnosis ofinfection was validated with the physician co-investigator from each unit.As part of this study, we evaluated the feasi-bility of using the NLP system (MedLEE) to auto-matically identify potential cases of healthcare-associated pneumonia in neonates.
The NLP sys-tem was not changed, but medical logic rules thataccessed the NLP output had to be developed.
Therules were developed by a medical expert based onmodifications to a previous rule to detect pneumo-nia in adults (Hripcsak et al, 1995).
Modificationswere made in accordance with the CDC NNISdefinition of healthcare-associated pneumonia inneonates.
The final rule was then adapted to func-tion properly with the output generated byMedLEE.
For example, the rule looks for 38 dif-ferent findings or modifier-finding combinations,such as pneumatocele and persistent opacity, andthen filters out findings that are not applicable be-cause they occur with certain modifiers (e.g.
no,rule out, cannot evaluate, resolved, a total of 62modifier).
Therefore the automated monitoringsystem consists of two components: a) theMedLEE NLP system, and b) medical rules thataccess the output generated by MedLEE.
In thisfirst phase, the medical expert defined the rulesbroadly, to identify reports consistent with pneu-monia (and not only healthcare-associated pneu-monia) with the intention of continuing the effort ifperformance in identifying all forms of pneumoniawas satisfactory.
This means that the automatedsystem could not differentiate between pneumoniaand healthcare-associated pneumonia at this point.There were no probabilities associated with find-ings or combination of findings.
The second phaseof the study will use the results present in this workto refine the rules in order to differentiate betweenhealthcare-associated and other types of pneumo-nia.All chest radiograph reports of neonates admit-ted to NICU-A were processed using the auto-mated monitoring system.
To better assess trueperformance, no corrections were made to the re-ports despite misspellings and even the inclusionof other types of reports in the same electronic filesas the chest radiograph reports.
For instance, it isnot uncommon to have a combined chest-abdomenradiograph in a neonate.4 ResultsDuring the 2 years of the study, from the total of1,688 neonates admitted to the NICU-A, 1,277neonates had 7,928 chest radiographs.
Based onthe experts?
evaluation, only 7 neonates hadhealthcare-associated pneumonia at least one pointduring the hospital stay.
Cases were definitivelyconfirmed by cultures.
These patients had a total of168 chest radiographs, but only 13, which wereassociated with the 7 patients, were positive be-cause they contracted pneumonia at some pointafter their admission.The automated system found the presence ofpneumonia in 125 chest radiographs that were as-sociated with 82 patients, including 6 of the 7 pa-tients identified by the experts.
The missed casewas a neonate with cardiac problems, and the chestradiograph did not show findings of healthcare-associated pneumonia.
A pulmonary biopsy per-formed subsequently showed findings which wereconsistent with healthcare-associated pneumonia.For healthcare-associated pneumonia, the sen-sitivity (recall) of the automated system was85.7%, while specificity (false positive rate) was94.1%, and the positive predictive value (preci-sion) was only 7.32%.One of the authors (EAM), who is a board certi-fied pediatric intensive care physician, manuallyanalyzed the false positive cases (e.g.
errors in pre-cision), and found that several of the false positivecases actually had radiographic findings corre-sponding to pneumonia.
Other errors require expertreview of the entire patient charts to determinewhether or not healthcare-associated pneumoniawas present.The expert reviewer (EAM) also encounteredseveral occurrences of a missed abbreviation(?BPD?).
Another common error was the mis-spelling of terms.5 DiscussionNatural language processing has the potential toextract valuable data from narrative reports.
Thesignificance is that a vast amount of NLP struc-tured data could then be exploited by automatedtools, such as decision support systems.
Automatedalerts (Dexter et al, 2001; Hripcsak et al, 1990;Kuperman et al, 1999; Rind et al, 1994) requirecoded clinical data to do an intelligent analysis ofpatient status or condition.
An automated tool,which notifies appropriate personnel about patientswith a particular condition or infection facilitatestimely and adequate response, including treatment,medication prophylaxis, and isolation.Conditions such as healthcare-associatedpneumonia carry significant rates of morbidity andmortality.
Surveillance of respiratory infection inthese patients is a challenge, and especially in neo-nates admitted to neonatal intensive care units.Isolated positive cultures alone do not distinguishbetween bacterial colonization and respiratory in-fection.
Surveillance based on radiology and labo-ratory findings can be valuable as a complement todaily manual chart review and clinical rounds.An NLP system cannot be used in a clinical en-vironment without an infrastructure to support itsuse.
At the NYPH, a clinical event monitor(Hripcsak et al, 1996) based on Arden Syntax forMedical Logic Modules ?
MLM (Hripcsak et al,1990; Hripcsak et al, 1994)  provides clinical deci-sion support.
When a clinical event occurs (suchas uploading of a radiograph reports), appropriatemedical logic modules are triggered based on thetype of event.
However, in order to be used by themonitoring system, narrative data must be coded.We envision the integration and use of this auto-mated NLP system to facilitate surveillance ofhealthcare-associated pneumonia in a real clinicalenvironment.
An additional issue is that the datafrom the NLP system has to be represented in away that can be manipulated by the clinical infor-mation system, and easily retrieved by the medicalrules.
Therefore it is not enough to evaluate anNLP system in isolation of a clinical application.The NLP system may perform very well in isola-tion, but the rules that access the data may be verycomplex.
They may involve complex inferencing,or may be difficult to write because of the repre-sentation generated by the NLP system.For healthcare-associated pneumonia, sensitiv-ity (recall) and specificity (rate of true negatives)were appropriate for the clinical application(87.7% and 94.1% respectively), but the positivepredictive value (precision) was low (7.32%), asexpected in this phase.
Low precision was primar-ily due to the broad rule that was used to detectpneumonia, and was not due to the NLP systemitself.
This rule now needs to be refined to detectonly healthcare-associated pneumonia, and distin-guish among radiograph findings moderately orhighly suggestive of healthcare-associated pneu-monia.
That would require substantial effort in-volving manual chart review by an expert.Additional data from other sources, such as labo-ratory results, should also be combined with radio-graph findings to add precision to the automatedsystem.
This will be done in the future as well asan evaluation.
The data from NICU-B was re-served as a test set for this purpose.The MedLEE system was not adapted in anyway for this effort.
Additionally, the rules werebased on expert knowledge but there was no train-ing of the rules because of the sparseness of thedata.
One type of NLP error was caused by amissed abbreviation BPD.
A straightforward solu-tion would be to include the abbreviation in thelexicon, but, this will create problems because ofthe ambiguous nature of the abbreviation.
BPD hasmultiple meanings, including broncopulmonarydysplasia, borderline personality disorder, bipa-rietal diameter, bipolar disorder, and bilio-pancreatic diversion, among others.
This is notsurprising since abbreviations are known to behighly ambiguous (Aronson and Rindfleshch,1994; Nadkarni, Chen, and Brandt, 2001), and arewidespread in clinical text.
In chest radiographs ofneonates, BPD generally denotes broncopulmon-ary dysplasia, a condition that predisposes the pa-tient to respiratory infection.
In other types ofradiology reports, for instance abdominal echogra-phy, BPD generally means biparietal diameter, ameasure of the gestation age.
Word sense disam-biguation is a difficult problem, which is widelydiscussed in the computational linguistics litera-ture.
A review of methods for word sense disam-biguation is presented by Ide and colleagues (Ideand Veronis, 1998).
In the clinical setting, an im-portant part of the solution will involve identifyingthe particular domain and use of special purposedomain-specific disambiguators that tag ambigu-ous abbreviations and specify their appropriatesense prior to parsing, based on the domain andother contextual information.
Defining the appro-priate domain granularity will be important, butmay be a difficult task because the granularity mayvary with the abbreviation.
For example, in thecase of radiographic reports, possibly the domainshould involve all chest x-rays or only chest x-raysof neonates, or the specific type of reports.In this study, we wanted to first evaluate thefeasibility of automated surveillance based on NLPin a real clinical situation.
The situation that pre-sented itself was important but only involved asmall population of positive cases.
The results thatwere obtained are not meant to be definitive but toexpose the issues associated with the use of anautomated system that uses NLP in a real environ-ment,.
This study established a relationship withclinicians who need this technology.
It is this col-laboration, which is critical for furthering use ofand validation of NLP in the clinical domain.
Inthis study, for instance, upon reviewing our results,the infection control practitioner felt she may havemissed some cases when following her typicalmanual surveillance, and would welcome the as-sistance of an automated system, even if it gener-ated a manageable amount of false positives (falsealerts).
We do not know what that amount shouldbe, but estimate that an amount in the range of afew false positives per week would be acceptable.In that case, the 82 false positives, accounting for 2years of cases, would be very acceptable.
Thiswould need further studying.Routine surveillance of infectious diseases inhospitals is generally accomplished by manual re-view of charts and clinical rounds by the ICPs.
Incase of suspected infection, the data are collectedusing surveillance protocols that target inpatients athigh risk of infection.
The CDC NNIS definitionfor healthcare-associated pneumonia is a 2-pagewritten protocol with two different criteria.
It iswell known that interpretation of guidelines andprotocols vary among health care providers, evenwithin the same institution.
A recent study on sur-veillance of ventilator-associated pneumonia(VAP) in very-low-weight infants retrospectivelycompare VAP surveillance diagnoses made by thehospital ICPs with those made by a panel of ex-perts with the same clinical, laboratory, and radi-ologic data corroborates the variation amongexperts (Cordero, et al, 2000).
An accurate NLPsystem, which codes reports consistently, shouldimprove data collection for surveillance.6 ConclusionSurveillance of infectious disease is critical forhealth care but manual methods are costly, incon-sistent, and error prone.
An automated system us-ing natural language processing would be aninvaluable tool that could be used to improve sur-veillance, including emerging infectious diseasesand biothreats.
We performed a feasibility study inconjunction with an infectious disease controlstudy to detect the presence of healthcare-associated pneumonia in neonates.
The resultsshowed that an automated system consisting ofNLP and clinical rules could be used for automatedsurveillance.
Further work will include refinementof the rules, further evaluation, integration with theclinical environment, and identification of othersurveillance applications.AcknowledgmentThis work was supported in part by grantsLM06274 from the National Library of Medicine,1 R01 NR05197-01A1 from the National Instituteof Nursing Research, and by a gift from theSulzberger Foundation.ReferencesAHRQ.
Bioterrorism preparedness and response: use ofinformation technologies and decision support sys-tems.
Evid Rep Technol Assess (Summ) 2002;(59):1-8.Aronson AR, Rindfleshch TBA.
Exploting a large the-saurus for information retrieval.
Proc.
RIAO 1994;197-216.Baud RH, Rassinoux AM, Wagner JC et al Represent-ing clinical narratives using conceptual graphs.Methods Inf Med 1995; 34(1-2):176-86.Bonten MJ.
Controversies on diagnosis and preventionof ventilator-associated pneumonia.
Diagn MicrobiolInfect Dis 1999; 34(3):199-204.Cordero L, Ayers LW, Miller RR, Seguin JH, ColeyBD.
Surveillance of ventilator-associated pneumoniain very-low-birth-weight infants.
Am J Infect Control2002; 30(1):32-9.Cordero L, Sananes M, Coley B, Hogan M, Gelman M,Ayers LW.
Ventilator-associated pneumonia in verylow-birth-weight infants at the time of nosocomialbloodstream infection and during airway colonizationwith Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
Am J Infect Control2000; 28(5):333-9.Craven DE, Steger KA.
Ventilator-associated bacterialpneumonia: challenges in diagnosis, treatment, andprevention.
New Horiz 1998; 6(2 Suppl):S30-45.Dexter PR, Perkins S, Overhage JM, Maharry K, KohlerRB, McDonald CJ.
A computerized reminder systemto increase the use of preventive care for hospitalizedpatients.
N Engl J Med 2001; 345(13):965-70.Fiszman M, Chapman WW, Aronsky D, Evans RS,Haug PJ.
Automatic detection of acute bacterialpneumonia from chest X-ray reports.
J Am Med In-form Assoc 2000; 7(6):593-604.Flanagan PG.
Diagnosis of ventilator-associated pneu-monia.
J Hosp Infect 1999; 41(2):87-99.Friedman C, Alderson PO, Austin JH, Cimino JJ, John-son SB.
A general natural-language text processor forclinical radiology.
Journal of the American MedicalInformatics Association 1994; 1(2):161-74.Friedman C, Hripcsak G. Evaluating natural languageprocessors in the clinical domain.
Methods of Infor-mation in Medicine 1998; 37:311-575.Friedman C, Hripcsak G, Shagina L, Liu H. Represent-ing information in patient reports using natural lan-guage processing and the extensible markuplanguage.
J Am Med Inform Assoc 1999a; 6(1):76-87.Friedman C, Knirsch C, Shagina L, Hripcsak G. Auto-mating a severity score guideline for community-acquired pneumonia employing medical languageprocessing of discharge summaries.
Proc AMIASymp 1999b; 256-60.Friedman C, Liu H, Shagina L, Johnson S, Hripcsak G.Evaluating the UMLS as a source of lexical knowl-edge for medical language processing.
Proc AMIASymp 2001; 189-93.Gaynes RP, Edwards JR, Jarvis WR, Culver DH, TolsonJS, Martone WJ.
Nosocomial infections among neo-nates in high-risk nurseries in the United States.
Na-tional Nosocomial Infections Surveillance System.Pediatrics 1996; 98(3 Pt 1):357-61.Gundersen ML, Haug PJ, Pryor  TA et al Developmentand evaluation of a computerized admission diagno-ses encoding system.
Computers and Biomedical Re-search 1996; 29(5):351-72.Haug PJ, Ranum DL, Frederick PR.
Computerized ex-traction of coded findings from free-text radiologicreports.
Work in progress.
Radiology 1990;174(2):543-8.Heyland DK, Cook DJ, Griffith L, Keenan SP, Brun-Buisson C. The attributable morbidity and mortalityof ventilator-associated pneumonia in the critically illpatient.
The Canadian Critical Trials Group.
Am JRespir Crit Care Med 1999; 159(4 Pt 1):1249-56.Hripcsak G, Clayton PD, Jenders RA, Cimino JJ, John-son SB.
Design of a clinical event monitor.
ComputBiomed Res 1996; 29(3):194-221.Hripcsak G, Clayton PD, Pryor TA, Haug PJ,  WigertzO, van der Lei J .
The Arden Syntax for medicallogic modules.
Miller RA.
Proceedings of the Four-teenth Annual Symposium on Computer Applicationsin Medical Care.
Washington, D.C.: IEEE ComputerPress, 1990: 200-4.Hripcsak G, Friedman C, Alderson PO, DuMouchel W,Johnson SB, Clayton PD.
Unlocking clinical datafrom narrative reports: a study of natural languageprocessing.
Annals of Internal Medicine 1995;122(9):681-8.Hripcsak G, Ludemann P, Pryor TA, Wigertz OB,Clayton PD.
Rationale for the Arden Syntax.
ComputBiomed Res 1994; 27(4):291-324.Ide N, Veronis J.
Introduction to the special issue onword sense disambiguation: the state of the art.
Com-putational Linguistics 1998; 24:1-40.Knirsch CA, Jain NL, Pablos-Mendez A, Friedman C,Hripcsak G. Respiratory isolation of tuberculosis pa-tients using clinical guidelines and an automatedclinical decision support system.
Infect Control HospEpidemiol 1998; 19(2):94-100.Kuperman GJ, Teich JM, Tanasijevic MJ et al Im-proving response to critical laboratory results withautomation: results of a randomized controlled trial.
JAm Med Inform Assoc 1999; 6(6):512-22.Lindberg DAB, Humphreys BL, McCray AT.
The Uni-fied Medical Language System.
Methods of Infor-mation in Medicine 1993; 32(4):281-91.Nadkarni P, Chen R, Brandt C. UMLS concept indexingfor production databases: a feasibility study.
J AmMed Inform Assoc 2001; 8(1):80-91.Richards C, Emori TG, Edwards J, Fridkin S, Tolson J,Gaynes R. Characteristics of hospitals and infectioncontrol professionals participating in the NationalNosocomial Infections Surveillance System 1999.Am J Infect Control 2001; 29(6):400-3.Rind DM, Safran C, Phillips RS et al Effect of com-puter-based alerts on the treatment and outcomes ofhospitalized patients.
Arch Intern Med 1994;154(13):1511-7.Sager N, Lyman M, Nhan NT, Tick LJ.
Medical lan-guage processing: applications to patient data repre-sentation and automatic encoding.
Methods Inf Med1995; 34(1-2):140-6.Thacker SB, Redmond S, Rothenberg RB, Spitz SB,Choi K, White MC.
A controlled trial of disease sur-veillance strategies.
Am J Prev Med 1986; 2(6):345-50.Whitsett JA, Pryhuber GS, Rice WR, Warner BB, WertSE.
Acute respiratory disorders.
Avery GB, FletcherMA, MacDonald MG5th edition.
New York: Lippin-cott Williams & Wilkins, 1999: 485-508.Wilcox A, Hripcsak G. Medical text representations forinductive learning.
Proc AMIA Symp 2000; 923-7.Zangwill KM, Schuchat A, Wenger JD.
Group B strep-tococcal disease in the United States, 1990: reportfrom a multistate active surveillance system.
MMWRCDC Surveill Summ 1920; 41(6):25-32.
