POS-Tagger for English-Vietnamese Bilingual CorpusDinh DienInformation Technology Faculty ofVietnam National University of HCMC,20/C2 Hoang Hoa Tham, Ward 12,Tan Binh Dist., HCM City, Vietnamddien@saigonnet.vnHoang KiemCenter of Information TechnologyDevelopment ofVietnam National University of HCMC,227 Nguyen Van Cu, District 5, HCM City,hkiem@citd.edu.vnAbstractCorpus-based Natural Language Processing (NLP)tasks for such popular languages as English, French,etc.
have been well studied with satisfactoryachievements.
In contrast, corpus-based NLP tasks forunpopular languages (e.g.
Vietnamese) are at adeadlock due to absence of annotated training data forthese languages.
Furthermore, hand-annotation of evenreasonably well-determined features such as part-of-speech (POS) tags has proved to be labor intensive andcostly.
In this paper, we suggest a solution to partiallyovercome the annotated resource shortage inVietnamese by building a POS-tagger for anautomatically word-aligned English-Vietnameseparallel Corpus (named EVC).
This POS-tagger madeuse of the Transformation-Based Learning (or TBL)method to bootstrap the POS-annotation results of theEnglish POS-tagger by exploiting the POS-informationof the corresponding Vietnamese words via their word-alignments in EVC.
Then, we directly project POS-annotations from English side to Vietnamese viaavailable word alignments.
This POS-annotatedVietnamese corpus will be manually corrected tobecome an annotated training data for Vietnamese NLPtasks such as POS-tagger, Phrase-Chunker, Parser,Word-Sense Disambiguator, etc.1 IntroductionPOS-tagging is assigning to each word of a text theproper POS tag in its context of appearance.
Although,each word can be classified into various POS-tags, in adefined context,  it can only be attributed with a definitePOS.
As an example, in this sentence: ?I can can acan?, the POS-tagger must be able to perform thefollowing: ?IPRO canAUX canV aDET canN?.In order to proceed with POS-tagging, such variousmethods as  Hidden Markov Models (HMM); Memory-based models (Daelemans, 1996); Transformation-based Learning (TBL) (Brill, 1995); MaximumEntropy; decision trees (Schmid, 1994a);  Neuralnetwork (Schmid, 1994b); and so on can be used.
Inwhich, the methods based on machine learning ingeneral and TBL in particular prove effective withmuch popularity at present.To achieve good results, the abovementionedmethods must be equipped with exactly annotatedtraining corpora.
Such training corpora for popularlanguages (e.g.
English, French, etc.)
are available (e.g.Penn Tree Bank, SUSANNE, etc.).
Unfortunately, sofar, there has been no such annotated training dataavailable for Vietnamese POS-taggers.
Furthermore,building manually annotated training data is veryexpensive (for example, Penn Tree Bank was investedover 1 million dollars and many person-years).
Toovercome this drawback, this paper will present asolution to indirectly build such an annotated trainingcorpus for Vietnamese by taking advantages ofavailable English-Vietnamese bilingual corpus namedEVC (Dinh Dien, 2001b).
This EVC has beenautomatically word-aligned (Dinh Dien et al, 2002a).Our approach in this work is to use a bootstrappedPOS tagger for English  to annotate the English side ofa word-aligned parallel corpus, then directly project thetag annotations to the second language (Vietnamese)via existing word-alignments (Yarowsky and Ngai,2001).
In this work, we made use of the TBL methodand SUSANNE training corpus to train our EnglishPOS-tagger.
The remains of this paper is as follows:?
POS-Tagging by TBL method:  introducing tooriginal TBL, improved fTBL, traditional EnglishPOS-Tagger by TBL.?
English-Vietnamese bilingual Corpus (EVC):resources of EVC, word-alignment of EVC.?
Bootstrapping English-POS-Tagger: bootstrappingEnglish POS-Tagger by the POS-tag ofcorresponding Vietnamese words.
Its evaluation?
Projecting English POS-tag annotations toVietnamese side.
Its evaluation.?
Conclusion:  conclusions, limitations and futuredevelopments.2 POS-Tagging by TBL methodThe Transformation-Based Learning (or TBL)  wasproposed by Eric Brill in 1993 in his doctoraldissertation (Brill, 1993) on the foundation of structurallinguistics of Z.S.Harris.
TBL has been applied withsuccess in various natural language processing (mainlythe tasks of classification).
In 2001, Radu Florian andGrace Ngai proposed the fast Transformation-BasedLearning (or fTBL) (Florian and Ngai, 2001a) toimprove the learning speed of TBL without affectingthe accuracy of the original algorithm.The central idea of TBL is to start with somesimple (or sophisticated) solution to the problem (calledbaseline tagging), and step-by-step apply optimaltransformation rules (which are extracted from aannotated training corpus at each step) to improve(change from incorrect tags into correct ones) theproblem.
The algorithm stops when no more optimaltransformation rule is selected or data is exhausted.
Theoptimal transformation rule is the one which results inthe largest benefit (repairs incorrect tags into correcttags as much as possible).A striking particularity of TBL in comparison withother learning methods is perceptive and symbolic: thelinguists are able to observe, intervene in all thelearning, implementing processes as well as theintermediary and final results.
Besides, TBL allows theinheritance of the tagging results of another system(considered as the baseline or initial tagging) with thecorrection on that result based on the transformationrules learned through the training period.TBL is active in conformity with thetransformational rules in order to change wrong tagsinto right ones.
All these rules obey the templatesspecified by human.
In these templates, we need toregulate the factors affecting the tagging.
In order toevaluate the optimal transformation rules, TBL needsthe annotated training corpus (the corpus to which thecorrect tag has been attached, usually referred to as thegolden corpus) to compare the result of current taggingto the correct tag in the training corpus.
In the executingperiod, these optimal rules will be used for tagging newcorpora (in conformity with the sorting order) and thesenew corpora must also be assigned with the baselinetags similar to that of the training period.
Theselinguistic annotation tags can be morphological ones(sentence boundary, word boundary), POS tags,syntactical tags (phrase chunker), sense tags,grammatical relation tags, etc.POS-tagging was the first application of TBL andthe most popular and extended to various languages(e.g.
Korean, Spanish, German, etc.)
(Curran, 1999).The approach of TBL POS-tagger is simple buteffective and it reaches the accuracy competitive withother powerful POS-taggers.
The TBL algorithm forPOS-tagger can be briefly described under two periodsas follows:* The training period:?
Starting with the annotated training corpus (orcalled golden corpus, which has been assignedwith correct POS tag annotations), TBL copies thisgolden corpus into a new unannotated corpus(called current corpus, which is removed POS tagannotations).?
TBL assigns an inital POS-tag to each word incorpus.
This initial tag is the most likely tag for aword if the word is known and is guessed basedupon properties of the word if the word is notknown.?
TBL applies each instance of each candidate rule(following the format of templates designed byhuman beings) in the current corpus.
These ruleschange the POS tags of words based upon thecontexts they appear in.
TBL evaluates the result ofapplying that candidate rule by comparing thecurrent result of POS-tag annotations with that ofthe golden corpus in order to choose the best onewhich has highest mark.
These best rules arerepeatedly extracted until there is no more optimalrule (its mark isn?t higher than a preset threshold).These optimal rules create an ordered sequence.
* The executing period:?
Starting with the new unannotated text, TBLassigns an inital POS-tag to each word in text in away similar to that of the training period.?
The sequence of optimal rules (extracted fromtraining period) are applied, which change the POStag annotations based upon the contexts theyappear in.
These rules are applied deterministicallyin the order they appear in the sequence.In addition to the above-mentioned TBL algorithmthat is applied in the supervised POS-tagger, Brill(1997) also presented an unsupervised POS-tagger thatis trained on unannotated corpora.
The accuracy ofunsupervised POS-tagger was reported lower than thatof supervised POS-tagger.Because the goal of our work is to build a POS-tagannotated training data for Vietnamese, we need anannotated corpus with as high as possible accuracy.
So,we will concentrate on the supervised POS-tagger only.For full details of TBL and FTBL, please refer toEric Brill (1993, 1995) and Radu Florian and GraceNgai (2001a).3 English ?
Vietnamese Bilingual CorpusThe bilingual corpus that needs POS-tagging in thispaper is named EVC (English ?
Vietnamese Corpus).This corpus is collected from many different resourcesof bilingual texts (such as books, dictionaries, corpora,etc.)
in selected fields such as Science, Technology,daily conversation (see table 1).
After collectingbilingual texts from different resources, this parallelcorpus has been normalized their form (text-only), tonemarks (diacritics), character code of Vietnam (TCVN-3), character font (VN-Times), etc.
Next, this corpushas been sentence aligned and checked spell semi-automatically.
An example of unannotated EVC as thefollowing:*D02:01323: Jet planes fly about nine miles high.+D02:01323: C?c phi c?
ph?n l?c bay cao kho?ngch?n d?m.Where, the codes at the beginning of each line referto the corresponding sentence in the EVC corpus.
Forfull details of building this EVC corpus (e.g.
collecting,normalizing, sentence alignment, spelling checker,etc.
), please refer to Dinh Dien (2001b).Next, this bilingual corpus has been automaticallyword aligned by a hybrid model combining thesemantic class-based model with the GIZA++ model.An example of the word-alignment result is as in figure1 below.
The accuracy of word-alignment of thisparallel corpus has been reported approximately 87% in(Dinh Dien et al, 2002b).
For full details of wordalignment of this EVC corpus (precision, recall,coverage, etc.
), please refer to (Dinh Dien et al,2002a).The result of this word-aligned parallel corpus hasbeen used in various Vietnamese NLP tasks, such as intraining the Vietnamese word segmenter (Dinh Dien etal., 2001a), word sense disambiguation (Dinh Dien,2002b), etc.Remarkably, this EVC includes the  SUSANNEcorpus (Sampson, 1995) ?
a  golden corpus has beenmanually annotated such necessary English linguisticannotations as lemma, POS tags, chunking tags,syntactic trees, etc.
This English corpus has beentranslated into Vietnamese by English teachers ofForeign Language Department of Vietnam Universityof HCM City.
In this paper, we will make use of thisvaluable annotated corpus as the training corpus for ourbootstrapped English POS-tagger.No.
Resources The numberof pairs ofsentencesNumber ofEnglishwordsNumber ofVietnamesemorpho-wordsLength(Englishwords)Percent(words/EVC)1.
Computer books 9,475 165,042 239,984 17.42 7.672.
LLOCE dictionary 33,078 312,655 410,760 9.45 14.533.
EV bilingual dictionaries 174,906 1,110,003 1,460,010 6.35 51.584.
SUSANNE corpus 6,269 131,500 181,781 20.98 6.115.
Electronics books 12,120 226,953 297,920      18.73 10.556.
Children?s Encyclopedia 4,953 79,927 101,023 16.14 3.717.
Other books 9,210 126,060 160,585 13.69 5.86Total 250,011 2,152,140 2,852,063 8.59 100%Table 1.
Resources of EVC corpusFigure 1.
An example of a word-aligned pair of sentences in EVC corpusJet planes fly about nine miles highCa?c phi c?
pha?n l?
?c bay cao khoa?ng ch?n da?m4 Our Bootstrapped English POS-TaggerSo far, existing POS-taggers for  (mono-lingual)English have been well developed with satisfactoryachievements and it is very difficult (it is nearlyimpossible for us) to improve their results.
Actually,those existing advanced POS-taggers have exhaustivelyexploited all linguistic information in English texts andthere is no way for us to improve English POS-tagger incase of such a monolingual English texts.
By contrast,in the bilingual texts, we are able to make use of thesecond language?s linguistic information in order toimprove the POS-tag annotations of the first language.Our solution is motivated by I.Dagan, I.Alon andS.Ulrike (1991); W.Gale, K.Church and D.Yarowsky(1992).
They proposed the use of bilingual corpora toavoid hand-tagging of training data.
Their premise isthat ?different senses of a given word often translatedifferently in another language (for example, pen inEnglish is stylo in French for its writing implementsense, and enclos for its enclosure sense).
By using aparallel aligned corpus, the translation of eachoccurrence of a word such as pen can be used toautomatically determine its sense?.
This remark is notonly true for word sense but also for POS-tag and it ismore exact in such typologically different languages asEnglish vs. Vietnamese.In fact, POS-tag annotations of English words aswell as Vietnamese words are often ambiguous but theyare not often exactly the same (table 4).
For example,?can?
in English may be ?Aux?
for ability sense, ?V?for to make a container sense, and ?N?
for a containersense and there is hardly existing POS-tagger which cantag POS for that word ?can?
exactly in all differentcontexts.
Nevertheless, if that ?can?
in English isalready word-aligned with a corresponding Vietnameseword, it will be POS-disambiguated easily byVietnamese word?
s POS-tags.
For example, if ?can?
isaligned with ?c?
th?
?, it must be Auxiliary ; if it isaligned with ??
?ng h?p?
then it must be a Verb, and ifit is aligned with ?c?i h?p?
then it must be a Noun.However, not that all Vietnamese POS-taginformation is useful and deterministic.
The bigquestion here is when and how we make use of theVietnamese POS-tag information?
Our answer is tohave this English POS-tagger trained by TBL method(section 2) with the SUSANNE training corpus (section3).
After training, we will extract an ordered sequenceof optimal transformation rules.
We will use these rulesto improve an existing English POS-tagger (as baselinetagger)  for tagging words of the English side in theword-aligned EVC corpus.
This English POS-taggingresult will be projected to Vietnamese side via word-alignments in order to form a new Vietnamese trainingcorpus annotated with POS-tags.4.1 The English POS-Tagger by TBL methodTo make the presentation clearer, we re-use notations inthe introduction to fnTBL-toolkit of Radu Florian andGrace Ngai (2001b) as follows:?
?
: denotes the space of samples: the set of wordswhich need POS-tagging.
In English, it is simple torecognize the word boundary, but in Vietnamese(an isolate language), it is rather complicated.Therefore, it has been presented in another work(Dinh Dien, 2001a).?
C : set of possible POS-classifications c (or tagset).For example: noun (N), verb (V), adjective (A), ...For English, we made use of the Penn TreeBanktagset and for Vietnamese tagset, we use the POS-tagset mapping table (see appendix A).?
S = ?xC: the space of states: the cross-productbetween the sample space (word) and theclassification space (tagset), where each point is acouple (word, tag).?
?
: predicate defined on S+ space, which is on asequence of states.
Predicate ?
follows thespecified templates of transformation rules.
In thePOS-tagger for English, this predicate onlyconsists of English factors which affect the POS-tagging process, for example U],[ nmiiWord+??
?orU],[ nmiiTag+??
?or U],[ nmiji TagWord+????
.Where, Wordi  is the morphology of the ith word fromthe current word.
Positive values of i meanpreceding (its left side), and negative ones meanfollowing (its right side).
i ranges within thewindow from ?m to +n.
In this English-Vietnamese bilingual POS-tagger, we add newelements including 0VTag  and 0VTag?
to thosepredicates.
VTag0 is the Vietnamese POS-tagcorresponding to the current English word via itsword-alignment.
These Vietnamese POS-tags aredetermined by the most frequent tag according tothe Vietnamese dictionary.?
A rule r defined as a couple (?, c) which consistsof predicate ?
and tag c. Rule r is written in theform ?
?
c. This means that the rule r = (?, c) willbe applied on the sample x if the predicate ?
issatisfied on it, whereat, x will be changed into anew tag c.?
Giving a state s = (x,c) and rule r = (?, c), then theresult state r(s), which is gained by applying rule ron s, is defined as:s if ?
(s)=False(x, c?)
if ?
(s)=True r(s) =?
T : set of training samples, which were assignedcorrect tag.
Here we made use of the SUSANNEgolden corpus (Sampson, 1995) whose POS-tagsetwas converted into the PTB tagset.?
The score associated with a rule r = (?, c) is usuallythe difference in performance (on the training data)that results from applying the rule, as follows:?
??
?
?=Ts TssscoresrscorerScore )())(()(4.2 The TBL algorithm for POS-TaggingThe TBL algorithm for POS-tagging can be brieflydescribed as follows (see the flowchart in figure 2):Step 1: Baseline tagging: To initiatize for each sample xin SUSANNE training data with its most likely POS-tagc.
For English, we made use of the available Englishtagger (and parser) of Eugene Charniak (1997) atBrown University (version 2001).
For Vietnamese, it isthe set of possible parts-of-speech tags (follow theappearance probability order of that part-of-speech indictionary).
We call the starting training data as T0.Step 2: Considering all the transformations (rules) r tothe training data Tk in time kth, choose the one with thehighest Score(r)  and applying  it to the training data toobtain new corpus Tk+1.
We have: Tk+1 = r(Tk) = { r(s) |s?Tk}.
If there are no more possible transformationrules which satisfies: Score(r) > ?, the algorithm isstopped.
?
is the threshold, which is preset and adjustedaccording to reality situations.Step 3: k = k+1.Step 4: Repeat from step 2.Step 5: Applying every rule r which is drawn in orderfor new corpus EVC after this corpus has been POS-tagged with baseline tags similar to those of the trainingperiod.
* Convergence ability of the algorithm: call ek thenumber of error (the difference between the taggingresult in conformity with rule r and the correct tag inthe golden corpus in time kth), we have: ek+1 = ek ?Score(r), since Score(r) > 0, so ek+1 < ek with all k, andek?N, so the algorithm will be converged after limitedsteps.
* Complexity of the algorithm: O(n*t*c) where n: sizeof training set (number of words); t: size of possibletransformation rule set (number of candidate rules); c:size of corpus satisfied rule applying condition (numberof order satisfied predicate ?
).4.3 Experiment and Results of BootstrappedEnglish POS-TaggerAfter the training period, this system will extract anordered sequence of optimal transformation rules underfollowing format, for examples:VBtagNNtagTOtag ??=?=?
001 ))()((MDtagVBtagMDVTagcanWord ?
?=?=?= 0000 ))()()""((VBtagVPBtagMDTagi i ??=?=????
00 ))()|]1,3[((These are intuitive rules and easy to understand byhuman beings.
For examples: the 2nd rule will beunderstood as follows: ?if the POS-tag of current wordis VB (Verb) and  its word-form  is ?can?
and itscorresponding Vietnamese word-tag is MD (Modal),then the POS-tag of current word will be changed intoMD?.We have experimented this method on EVC corpswith the training SUSANNE corpus.
To evaluate thismethod, we held-back 6,000-word part of the trainingcorpus (which have not been used in the trainingperiod) and we achieved the POS-tagging results asfollows:Step CorrecttagsIncorrectTagsPrecisionBaseline tagging(Brown POS-tagger)5724 276 95.4%TBL-POS-tagger(bootstrapping bycorrespondingVietnamese POS-tag)5850 150 97.5%Table 2.
The result of Bootstrapped POS-tagger for English side in EVC.It is thanks to exploiting the information of thecorresponding Vietnamese POS that the English POS-tagging results are improved.
If we use only availableEnglish information, it is very difficult for us toimprove the output of Brown POS-tagger.
Despite thePOS-tagging improvement, the results can hardly saidto be fully satisfactory due to the following reasons:* The result of automatic word-alignment is only87% (Dinh Dien et al, 2002a).
* It is not always true that the use of VietnamesePOS-information is effective enough to disambiguatethe POS of English words (please refer to table 3).Through the statistical table 3 below, theinformation of Vietnamese POS-tags can be seen asfollows:- Case 1,2,3,4: no need for any disambiguation ofEnglish POS-tags.- Case 5, 7: Full disambiguation of English POS-tags(majority).- Case 6, 8, 9: Partial disambiguation of EnglishPOS-tags by TBL-method.1 if c = True(x)0 if c ?
True(x) score((x,c)) =Figure 2.
Flowchart of TBL-algorithm in POS-tagger for EVC corpusNo.
English POS-tags  Vietnamese POS-tags Contrast English vs. VietnamesePOS-tagsPercent %1.
One POS-tag only  One POS-tag only  Two POS-tags are identical 25.22.
One POS-tag only One POS-tag only  Two POS-tags are different 1.23.
One POS-tag only More than 1 POS-tag One common POS-tag only 5.34.
One POS-tag only More than 1 POS-tag No common POS-tag 3.55.
More than 1 POS-tag One POS-tag only  One common POS-tag only 50.56.
More than 1 POS-tag One POS-tag only  No common POS-tag 2.87.
More than 1 POS-tag More than 1 POS-tag One common POS-tag only 6.18.
More than 1 POS-tag More than 1 POS-tag More than 1 common POS-tag 4.19.
More than 1 POS-tag More than 1 POS-tag No common POS-tag 1.3Table 3.
Contrast POS-tag of English and Vietnamese in the word-aligned EVCword-aligned bilingualSUSANNE corpusremove POS-tagsUnannotated corpusBrown POS-tagger(baseline tagger)current annotatedcorpusTemplatescandidatetransformation rulesCorpus annotated bycandidate rulesCompare& EvaluateOptimal Rules mark>?EndYNSequence ofoptimal rulesVietnamesecorresponding POS-tags5 Projecting English POS-Tags toVietnameseAfter having English-POS-tag annotations with highprecision, we proceed to directly project those POS-tag annotations from English side into Vietnameseside.
Our solution is motivated by a similar work ofDavid Yarowsky and Grace Ngai (2001).
Thisprojection is based on available word-alignments inthe automatically word-aligned English-Vietnameseparallel corpus.Nevertheless, due to typological differencebetween English (an inflected typology) vs.Vietnamese (an isolated typology),  direct projectionis not a simple 1-1 map but it may be a complex m-nmap:?
Regarding grammatical meanings, Englishusually makes use of inflectional facilities, suchas suffixes to express grammatical meanings.
Forexample: -s ?plural, -ed ?past, -ing?continuous, ?s ?
possesive case, etc.Whilst Vietnamese  often makes use of functionwords, word order facilities.
For example:?ca?c??
?nh??ng?
?
plural, ??a??
?
past, ??ang??
continuous, ?cu?a?
?
possessive cases, etc.?
Regarding lexicalization, some words in Englishmust be represented by a phrase in Vietnameseand vice-versa.
For example: ?cow?
and ?ox?
inEnglish will be rephrased into two words ?bo?ca?i?
(female one) and ?bo?
???c?
(male one) inVietnamese; or ?nghe??
in Vietnamese will berephrased into two words ?buffalo calf?
inEnglish.The result of projecting is as table 4 below.In addition, tagsets of two languages aredifferent.
Due characteristics of each language, wemust use two different tagset for POS-tagging.Regarding English, we made use of available POS-tagset of PennTreeBank.
While in Vietnamese, wemade use of POS-tagset in the standard Vietnamesedictionary of Hoang Phe (1998) and other new tags.So, we must have an English-Vietnamese consensustagset map (please refer to Appendix A).Eng-lishJet planes fly about nine miles highE-tag NN NNS VBP IN CD NNS RBVN-esepha?nl?
?c(ca?c)phi c?bay khoa?ng ch?n da?m caoV-tag N N V IN CD N RTable 4.
An example of English POS-tagging in parallel corpus EVCRegarding evaluation of POS-tag projections,because so far, there has been no POS-annotatedcorpus available for Vietnamese, we had to manuallybuild a small golden corpus for Vietnamese POS-tagging with approximately 1000 words forevaluating.
The results of Vietnamese POS-taggingis as table 5 below:Method CorrecttagsIncorrectTagsPrecisionBaseline tagging(use informationof POS-tag  indictionary)823 177 82.3%Projecting fromEnglish side inEVC946 54 94.6%Table 5.
The result of projecting POS-tagsfrom English side to Vietnamese in EVC.6 ConclusionWe have just presented the POS-tagging for anautomatically word-aligned English-Vietnameseparallel corpus by POS-tagging English words firstand then projecting them to Vietnamese side later.The English POS-tagging is done in 2 steps: Thebasic tagging step is achieved through the availablePOS-tagger (Brown) and the correction step isachieved through the TBL learning method in whichthe information on the corresponding Vietnamese isused through available word-alignment in the EVC.The result of POS-tagging of Vietnamese in theEnglish-Vietnamese bilingual corpus plays ameaningful role in the building of the automatictraining corpus for the Vietnamese processors in needof parts of speech (such as Vietnamese POS-taggers,Vietnamese parser, etc.).
By making use of thelanguage typology?
s differences and the word-alignments in bilingual corpus for the mutualdisambiguation, we are still able to improve the resultof the English POS-tagging of the currently powerfulEnglish POS-taggers.Currently, we are improving the speed oftraining period by using Fast TBL algorithm insteadof TBL one.In the future, we will improve this serial POS-tagging to the parallel POS-tagging for both Englishand Vietnamese simultaneously after we obtain theexact Vietnamese POS-tags in the parallel corpus ofSUSANNE.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Prof. Eduard Hovy(ISI/USC, USA) for his guidance as external advisoron this research.ReferencesE.
Brill.
1993.
A Corpus-based approach to LanguageLearning, PhD-thesis, Pennsylvania Uni., USA.E.
Brill.
1995.
Transformation-Based Error-DrivenLearning and Natural Language Processing: A CaseStudy in Part of Speech Tagging.
ComputationalLinguistics, 21(4), pp.
543-565.E.
Brill.
1997.
Unsupervised Learning of DisambiguationRules for Part of Speech Tagging.
In NaturalLanguage Processing Using Very Large Corpora.Kluwer Academic Press.J.
Curran.
1999.
Transformation-Based Learning inShallow Natural Language Processing, HonoursThesis, Basser Department of Computer Science,University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.E.
Charniak.
1997.
Statistical parsing with a context-freegrammar and word statistics, in Proceedings of theFourteenth National Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, AAAI Press/MIT Press, Menlo Park.I.
Dagan, I.Alon, and S.Ulrike.
1991.
Two languages aremore informative than one.
In Proceedings of the 29thAnnual ACL, Berkeley, CA, pp.130-137.W.
Daelemans, J. Zavrel,  P. Berck, S. Gillis.
1996.
MTB:A Memory-Based Part-of-Speech Tagger Generator.In Proceedings of 4th Workshop on Very LargeCorpora, Copenhagen.D.
Dien, H. Kiem, and N.V. Toan.
2001a.
VietnameseWord Segmentation, Proceedings of NLPRS?01 (The6th Natural Language Processing  Pacific  RimSymposium), Tokyo, Japan, 11/2001, pp.
749-756.D.
Dien.
2001b.
Building an English-Vietnamese bilingualcorpus, Master thesis in Comparative Linguistics,University of Social Sciences and Humanity of HCMCity, Vietnam.D.
Dien, H.Kiem, T.Ngan, X.Quang, Q.Hung, P.Hoi,V.Toan.
2002a.
Word alignment in English ?Vietnamese bilingual corpus, Proceedings ofEALPIIT?02, Hanoi, Vietnam, 1/2002, pp.
3-11.D.Dien, H.Kiem.
2002b.
Building a training corpus forword sense disambiguation in the English-to-Vietnamese Machine Translation, Proceedings ofWorkshop on Machine Translation in Asia, COLING-02, Taiwan, 9/2002, pp.
26-32.R.
Florian, and G. Ngai.
2001a.
Transformation-BasedLearning in the fast lane, Proceedings of NorthAmerica ACL-2001.R.
Florian, and G. Ngai.
2001b.
Fast Transformation-BasedLearning Toolkit.
Technical Report.W.
Gale, K.W.Church, and D. Yarowsky.
1992.
Usingbilingual materials to develop word sensedisambiguation methods.
In Proceedings of the Int.Conf.
on Theoretical and Methodological Issues inMT, pp.101-112.H.
Phe.
1998.
T??
?ie?n tie?ng Vie?t (Vietnamese Dictionary).Center of Lexicography.
Da Nang Publisher.G.
Sampson.
1995.
English for the Computer: TheSUSANNE Corpus and Analytic Scheme, ClarendonPress (Oxford University Press).H.
Schmid.
1994a.
Probabilistic POS Tagging usingDecision Trees, Proceedings of InternationalConference on New methods in Language Processing,Manchester, UK.H.
Schmid.
1994b.
POS Tagging with Neural Networks,Proceedings of International Conference onComputational Linguistics, Kyoto, Japan, pp.172-176.D.
Yarowsky and G. Ngai.
2001.
Induce, Multilingual POSTagger and NP bracketer via projection on alignedcorpora, Proceedings of NAACL-01.Appendix A. English-Vietnamese consensusPOS-tagset mapping tableEnglish POS  VietnamesePOSCC (Coordinating conjunction) CCCD (Cardinal number) CDDT (Determiner) DTEX (Existential) VFW (Foreign word) FWIN (Preposition) INJJ (Adjective) AJJR (Adjective, comparative) AJJS (Adjective, superlative) ALS (List item marker) LSMD (Modal) MDNN (Noun, singular or mass) NNNS (Noun, plural) NNP (Proper noun, singular) NNPS (Proper noun, plural) NPDT (Predeterminer) DTPOS (Possessive ending) ?cu?a?PP (Personal pronoun) PPP$ (Possessive pronoun) ?cu?a?
PRB (Adverb) RRBR (Adverb, comparative) RRBS (Adverb, superlative) RRP (Particle) RPSYM (Symbol) SYMTO (''to'') -UH (Interjection) UHVB (Verb, base form) VVBD (Verb, past tense) VVBG (Verb, gerund or presentparticiple)VVBN (Verb, past participle) VVBP (Verb, non-3rd personsingular present)VVBZ (Verb, 3rd person singularpresent)VWDT (Whdeterminer) PWP (Wh-pronoun) PWP$ (Possessive wh-pronoun) ?cu?a?
PWRB (Wh-adverb) R
