Developing a Typology of Dialogue Acts: Some Boundary ProblemsTiit HennosteDepartment of Estonian andFinno-Ugric LinguisticsUniversity of Tartu50409 Tartu, Estoniahennoste@ut.eeKrista StrandsonDepartment of Estonian andFinno-Ugric LinguisticsUniversity of Tartu50409 Tartu, Estoniaks@ut.eeMare KoitInstitute of Computer ScienceUniversity of Tartu50409 Tartu, Estoniakoit@ut.eeMaret ValdisooInstitute of Computer ScienceUniversity of Tartu50409 Tartu, Estoniamaret@ut.eeAndriela R?
?bisDepartment of Estonian andFinno-Ugric LinguisticsUniversity of Tartu50409 Tartu, Estoniaandriela@ut.eeEvely VuttInstitute of Computer ScienceUniversity of Tartu50409 Tartu, Estonianurm@ut.eeKeywords: spoken dialogue, typology of dialogueacts, annotationAbstractThe paper gives an overview of a typo-logy of dialogue acts used for annotatingEstonian spoken dialogues.
Several prob-lems of the classification and determiningof dialogue acts are considered.
Our fur-ther aim is to develop a dialogue systemwhich can interact with the user in naturallanguage following the norms and rules ofhuman-human communication.1 IntroductionThe paper describes a typology of dialogue acts weuse for annotating of Estonian dialogues.
The prob-lems of classifying and determining dialogue actsare considered.
Our aim is to develop a typology ofdialogue acts which is general, not domain- orproblem-oriented and can be used for annotatingboth spoken human-human and human-machinedialogues.
Our main goal is to model natural dia-logue on the computer.
Underlying our solutions isthe presupposition that the computer is one of thedialogue participants.
Still, the computer has somerestrictions in its work, and human-computer dia-logues are simpler than human-human ones.
Nev-ertheless, natural dialogue corpora can be used fordialogue systems development, a distilling methodcan be implemented to simplify the real dialogues(J?nsson, Dahlb?ck 2000).2 Principles of ClassificationThere are several requirements for developing adialogue act system for dialogue analysis.
First, theacts that people use in actual conversations must befound.
Secondly, the act system must make it pos-sible to differentiate functions.
Thirdly, the typol-ogy must make it possible to differentiateutterances with the same linguistic realisation butwith different functions.There are several well-known typologies of dia-logue acts (Sinclair, Coulthard 1975, Francis, Hun-ston 1992, Stenstr?m 1994, Bunt 1999, Stolcke etal 2000, Dybkj?r 2000, Allwood et al2001,Mengel et al2001).
We have decided to developour own dialogue act system because no typologyseemed to fully correspond to our needs.The principles underlying our typology are thesame as for other coding schemes (Edwards 1995).Three types of principles are used: 1) category de-sign, 2) readability, 3) computer manipulation.The first type is important for our current study.There are three features in designing this group:categories must be systematically discriminable,exhaustive, and systematically contrastive.The first means that for each event in the dataand each category it must be clear whether or notthe category applies.Exhaustibility means that for each particularcase in the data there must be a fitting category(even if only ?miscellaneous?).
For that reason,every type in our typology contains a subtype?other?
which is used for annotating the things weare not interested in at the moment, or are not ableto determine exactly.Contrastivity needs some more discussion.When categories are treated as exclusive alterna-tives, the categories partially determine eachother?s boundaries.
When categories are not mutu-ally exclusive, as with speech act (or dialogue act)categories, there is an implicit contrast between thepresence and the absence of each individual con-ceptual property.
The researcher?s task in choosinga set of descriptive categories for coding is to ex-ploit the contrastiveness of categories, that is, tochoose categories which contrast in ways whichare most likely to reveal the properties of interestin the research (Edwards 1995: 21-22).Why are we developing a new typology?
In ouropinion, the categories used by most of the typolo-gies are too general.
For example, the communica-tion management or acknowledgement can notform only one category, i.e.
a unit with one func-tion.
Conversation studies have found out a moredetailed classification of utterance functions.
Atypology must to take in account such classifica-tion.Our typology departs from the point of view ofconversation analysis (CA) that focuses on thetechniques used by people themselves when theyare actually engaged in social interaction.
This it isan empirical, inductive analysis of conversationdata (see e.g.
Hutchby, Fooffitt 1998).An advantage of this approach is the fact thatCA departs from empirical data, i.e.
it tries to findout markers in the text that allow the determinationof utterance functions.
In our opinion, it isespecially important for human-computerinteraction.
On the other side, CA implements onlymicroanalysis, it does not use a previously ready-made typology of dialogue acts but tries to analyseevery dialogue act as it would be unique.Still, the most part of our typology coincidenceswith the existing typologies.
Interpretation ofcommunication management and of relations be-tween turns is different, and these differences forma methodological basis for the new taxonomy.The departing point of the CA is that a partneralways must react to previous turn regardless ofhis/her own plans and strategies.
Therefore theanalysis of relations between two turns is central.This is the reason why we do not start our typologywith determination of forward-looking and back-ward-looking acts but differentiate adjacency pairrelations from non-adjacency pair relations.Some classes of dialogue acts conventionallyform adjacency pairs (AP) where producing thefirst act makes the second act relevant.
There aredifferences between the first and second part.
Aconceded first part requires certain second part(e.g.
a question requires an answer).
The secondpart of an AP has certain relevant position in dia-logue (e.g.
the answer to a question must comeafter the end of the question, not earlier, not later).In real conversations there are a lot of violations ofthis norm.
For example, one can answer a questionimmediately after a questioning word of the part-ner or there may be insertion sequences betweenthe parts.
In some cases, the second part remainsmissing.
Still, the second part remains relevanteven if it is not produced in the next turn.It means that norms followed by participantsform the basis of conversation.
Still, participantsmay violate norms.
In this case they give a signalto the partner.
We suppose that the computer as adialogue participant must follow the norms andrecognise signals of violations of the norms by thepartner.
The computer must be able to differentiatethe first part of an AP (which is expecting a reac-tion) from acts that do not need a reaction, e.g.questions from narrative or real questions fromrhetorical questions that do not expect any reac-tion.
Thus, the first basis of the act typology is: theacts forming APs must be differentiated from theacts that do not form APs.Such a system allows to relate antecedents andresponses and analyse such types of turns/utterances that are located between a question andan answer (insertions sequences).Secondly, acts used in dialogue are typicallydivided into two groups: information acts and dia-logue managing acts.
In our opinion, communica-tion management is not one function but there aredifferent functions.
The most important is repairthat means solving all the communication or lin-guistic problems (cf.
Schegloff, Jefferson, Sacks1977, for Estonian Hennoste 2000-2001:2689-2710, 179-183, Strandson 2001).
Human-humancommunication can not be fluent in principle.
Inhuman-computer interaction, the computer must beable to differentiate a problem solving act from aninformation act or fluent interaction.
It is essentialbecause some information acts and repair acts havesimilar form (e.g.
almost all initiations of repairsare questions).
This gives us the following differ-ence from the existing typologies: the dialoguemanaging acts must be divided into 1) fluent con-versation managing acts and 2) acts for solvingcommunication problems or repair acts.Based on the category design principles and thetwo principles of dialogical communication, wedifferentiate 8 groups of dialogue acts in our typol-ogy: 1) Rituals (greeting, thanking etc), 2) Restruc-turing acts (used to change a topic or a type ofactivity, e.g.
from small talk to meeting), 3) Con-tact control, 4) Repair, 5) Questions and answers,6) Directives (request, etc), 7) Opinions (assertion,argument etc), 8) Other acts (that do not formAPs).
The overall number of dialogue acts is 137.An overview of the typology is given in appendix1.Let us concentrate now on acts of groups 5 and6, i.e.
question and directive APs.3 CorpusThe corpus of spoken Estonian forms the basis ofour study.
It consists of various types of oralspeech, usage of both everyday and institutionalconversation, spontaneous and planned speech,monologues and dialogues, face-to-face interactionand media texts (Hennoste et al2001).
The corpusis transcribed by the transcription of CA.For this paper we have analysed calls toinformation (asking phone numbers, addressesetc), and calls and face-to-face conversations intravel bureaus.1 Those two activity types are quitesimilar.
Both are institutional dialogues where thecaller/customer asks for information and the con-sultant tries to provide the wanted information.Participants are strangers.
Face-to-face interaction1The activity type typology in our corpus is characterised bythe following general parameters (see Hennoste et al2001): 1.Face-to-face, telephone, media.
2.
Primary goal: involved/taskoriented-information.
3.
Everyday/ institutional communica-tion.
4.
Monologue/dialogue 5.
Spontaneous/pre-planned text.6.
Participants are familiars/strangers.takes place in the institutional territory (travel bu-reau).
The text of the participants is partly pre-planned (the client has thought beforehand what toask and the consultant has given the same informa-tion several times).
At the same time there aresome differences, too.
The travel bureau dialoguesare consultations where a lot of questions areasked.
The calls to information typically containonly one fixed question.The sub-corpus we have used for the analysisconsists of 114 texts, each of which is annotated bytwo different annotators and then unified.
Our sub-corpus has 5815 dialogue act tags, among them308 first parts and 258 second parts of directives,633 questions and 1081 answers.4 Questions and DirectivesSome typologies we have studied make a differ-ence between questions and directives, some donot (e.g.
Bunt 1999).
Sometimes questions anddirectives are differentiated on the basis whetherthe user needs some information (then it is ques-tion) or he/she wants to influence the hearer?s fu-ture non-communicative actions (then it isdirective).
Our departing point is that it is not im-portant for dialogue continuation whether thehearer must to do something outside of current dia-logue or not.
He/she must react to both a questionand a directive because both are the first parts ofAPs.
The second part of AP can be verbal (as inour dialogues) or non-verbal (some action).
It cancome immediately after the first part of AP or later.Additionally, the response can influence the courseof dialogue (e.g.
determine the structure of thepartner?s next turn).
The main difference betweendirectives and questions is formal ?
questions havespecial explicit form in Estonian (interrogatives,intonation, specific word order) but directives donot have it.
Imperative directive expressions occurseldom in our dialogues.On the other hand, there are interrogative utter-ances that are used not to ask an information ques-tion but to initiate repair, to form a rhetoricquestion, contact control, conventional questions(how are you?).
Those utterances are excludedfrom question-answer APs in our typology.4.1 Types of Questions and AnswersThere are three types of questions depending onthe expected reaction:- questions expecting giving information:open (wh-)question, open (declarative)yes/no question- questions expecting agreement/refusal:closed yes/no question, question that offersanswer- questions expecting the choice of an alter-native: alternative question.Additionally, we have the question type Other.We differentiate two sub-groups in the first andthird group because from one side they have for-mal specific features and from the other side thereare particular problems with boundary determina-tion (see also Hennoste 2003).
Open yes/no ques-tion and closed yes/no question have similar formbut they expect different reactions from the an-swerer (e.g.
Are you open in winter?
expects theanswer yes or no, but by asking Is there a bus thatarrives in Tallinn after 8?
the questioner wants toknow the departure times of buses).The computer must be able to differentiate thetwo types of questions.
There are no formal differ-ences thus other criteria must be found.The first observation is that these questions oc-cur in different parts of a dialogue.
Most of openyes/no questions are the second parts of series ofquestions that express the main line, the sametopic.Most of the closed yes/no questions have thefunction of specifying questions in our dialogues,and there are some that initiate repair (Hennoste2003).Secondly, how does the computer understandthat something is wrong?
For this purpose textcharacteristics can be found in human-human dia-logues where the interpretations of participants aredifferent.
There are no examples in our corpuswhere the answerer interprets a closed question asan open one.
Still, there are some examples wherean open question is interpreted as a closed one andonly yes or no answer is used instead of givingmore information.
There are two possibilities tosolve the problem in the dialogues of our corpus.The first possibility is that the client asks aspecifying question immediately (example 1, theparticipants are: H ?
client, V ?
consultant).
22To simplify the picture, only those acts are marked in exam-ples, which are connected with question-answer pairs and arerelevant for the analysis of the example.
Dialogue act namesare written in capitals.
Transcription marks cf.
appendix 2.
(1) H: ahah .hh kas teil on ming-isugune (.)
?veebiaadress  ka ole-mas kus saab (.)
[infot.
]OPEN YES/NO QUESTIONdo you have any www-address too where to getinformationV: [jaa?]
AGREEING YES  (.)
{-}yesH: ?mis see ?oleks.
SPECIFYINGQUESTIONwhat is itV: ?tlen kohe?
(0.5) ?kolmdabl?juud,  OPEN ANSWER: GIVINGINFORMATIONI will say at once three dabljuus /.../The second possibility is that the yes/no answeris followed by a long pause, and only then the in-formation is given by the answerer (example 2).The necessary length of pause needs additionalstudy.
On the other side, these types of questionsare used in different positions in Estonian dia-logues.
(2) H: {ahah} (0.5) ja on seal kamingisuguseid ?sporditegemise v?i-malusi.
OPEN YES/NO QUESTIONand are there any possibilities to do sportV: ikka on.
AGREEING YESyes there are(1.0)?palli {m?ngida saab ja?piljardit siis=ja ?keeglit=ja}v?i vabandust=e (.)
ee seda?sulgpalli=ja  OPEN ANSWER: GIVINGINFORMATIONone could play ball and billiards and bowl-ing and or sorry that badminton=andThe second type of questions (expecting agree-ment/refusal) can be divided into two sub-types:closed yes-no question, and question that offersanswer (e.g.
see ?seitseteist kolmk?mend on k?ige?ilisem v?i /is the seventeen thirty the latest/).
Thequestioner has some opinion, hypothesis andhe/she is expecting confirmation by the partner.These sub-types can be differentiated on basis ofdifferent linguistic realisations in Estonian.There are 237 wh-questions, 123 closed yes-noquestions, 73 open yes-no questions, 153 questionsthat offer answer, 45 alternative questions in ouranalysed corpus.Certain questions are closely connected withcertain answers:- wh-questions and open yes/no-questions open answers: giving information /missing information;- closed yes/no-questions and questions thatoffer answer closed answers: yes / no /agreeing no / other yes/no-answer;- alternative questions alternative an-swers: one / both / third choice / negative /other alternative answer.In addition, there are some answers that could beused with different questions: postponing the an-swer (one minute please, I will look at once), an-swering with the question (Q: what do you think?A: and what do you think?
), refusing to answer (Q:do you have some tours to South-Estonia?
A: wedon?t organise the tours at all), the answer thatgives alternatives (the answer to the wh-questionor yes/no question where more than one alternativeis given that makes the customer decide himself orto ask specifying questions), the unsure answer (Iam not sure, ...I think so, but...).4.2 Types of Directives and Reactions to themThe first parts of directive APs are request, pro-posal and offer.
A request expresses the author?sneed or intent to get something (information or anaction by partner).
The utterances that have theform of requests can sometimes manage conversa-tion.
Such acts belong to the corresponding groupsin our typology and are not considered here.In example 3 H informs V that he wishes tospeak with a certain person.
In example 4 H ex-press a wish to finish the partner?s (V) action.
(3) V: tere paluksin ?Merlet.REQUESTgood morning may I speak to  MerleH: jaa ma=kuulen.FULFILLING DIRECTIVE: OTHERyes I?m speaking(4) V: ?
Raadi kauplus, (1.5) neli-sada, kolm kolm kolm.
(...)?Ristiku kauplus, (1.0) neliseitse ?ks, (.)
kolm viis kolm.
(1.0)Raadi shop four hundred three three three Ristikushop four seven one three five threeH: no aitab.
REQUEST (.
)it?s enoughV: jaa=palun?FULFILLING DIRECTIVE: OTHERyes you?re welcomeH: ait?h.thank youProposals and offers differ from requests be-cause they expect a different second part.
Requestsare similar to open questions in the sense that theyexpect giving information and not a yes/no answeror the choice of an alternative.
The suitable reac-tions to requests are fulfilling directive: giving in-formation or fulfilling directive: missinginformation.
Proposals and offers are similar toclosed yes/no questions.
In this case the suitablereactions are agreement or refusal (agreement withdirective and refusal of directive in our typology).Offers must be differentiated from proposals.
Inthe first case, the  action will originate from theauthor (offer: I?ll send you the programme), in thesecond case from the partner (proposal: pleasecome tomorrow, call me later), cf.
example 5.
(5) H: ??
kas te oskate ?elda kuipalju se ?pilet maksab.could you tell me how much the ticket will costV: kahjuks ?piletite=inda meilei=ole.
te peate sealt k?sima=PROPOSALunfortunately we do not have ticket prices youmust ask therema=v?in ?numbri anda kui ?soovite.OFFERI can give you the number if you wantH: mt ee v?ite anda ?k?ll jah?AGREEMENT WITH DIRECTIVEmm you can give yesV: see on kaks ?kolm, (0.5)it is two threeThe first parts of directives have analogues inthe group of questions:request ?
open yes-no question / wh-questionproposal / offer ?
closed yes-no question.There are 142 requests, 62 offers and 38 pro-posals in our analysed corpus.Offer must be differentiated from promise.
Inthe last case, the author commits to do an action asin the case of offer, but promise does not presup-pose the agreement of the partner and therefore itis non-AP act.Different acts behave differently in informationdialogues.First, some of directives need immediate fulfill-ing (e.g.
in the next turn) and some of them need itin future.
In our dialogues, proposals expect typi-cally a future action (outside of current conversa-tion).
Offers typically need immediate fulfilling.Requests always need immediate fulfilling andthey are connected with the current dialogue.Secondly, the analysis of directives shows thatthe authors of different types of acts are different.Typically, request is used by the client.
The con-sultant uses questions in similar situations.Proposals and offers are used mainly by con-sultant, client has used them only in two cases inour data.Reactions to directives are similar to answers toquestions.
Still, we annotate them differently asthey belong to different APs.
There are certainpairs of the first and second parts of directive APs:- request fulfilling directive: giving in-formation / missing information- proposal / offer agreement with direc-tive / refusal of directive.In addition to that, there are some reactions thatcould be used with different directives and aresimilar to answers to questions: postponing thereaction (one minute please, I will look at once),refusing to answer (we have no such information),unsure reaction (I am not sure, ...I think so, but...).5 Communication ProblemsIf a questioner asks such questions and/or ex-presses such requests that the answerer is able toreact adequately and give the answer immediately,then the conversation is fluent.
In fact, such con-versations occur seldom.
Typically, there are prob-lems in a conversation which need to be solved.5.1 Repair and AdjustingIn some situations one of partners finds somecommunication problem.
He/she signals it andboth partners agree that the problem must besolved.
Repair is used for solving such problems.The computer must understand the repair initia-tion by the partner and be capable of performingthe repair.
On the other side, the computer must beable to initiate repairs itself if there are problems inthe preceding text.It is important to bring out repair because mostof repairs are formally question-answer APs.
(Wedo not consider the boundaries of information re-quest and repair here.
)There are several types of repairs.
We are notinterested in self-repairs but in the hearer-initiatedand speaker-performed repairs.
Such repairs can beclassified in different ways (see Hennoste 2000-2001, Strandson 2001).Our typology of repairs is similar to question-answer APs because most of the initiations of re-pairs are questions in Estonian.
We differentiatethree types of repair initiations.
The first type is theclarification where the hearer repeats the previousinformation to check whether he/she understood itright or not.
Formally, there are questions that offeranswer.The second type is the re-formulation where thehearer offers his/her interpretation of previousinformation.
It may have several forms.Questions that are used for repair initiation dif-fer from information questions by their content andlinguistic form.
Certain linguistic means are usedin repair questions (cf.
Strandson 2001 for Esto-nian).Both of the repair initiations need either con-firmation or rejection by the partner who hascaused the problem.
Thus the pairs of acts are simi-lar to the question-answer pairs.The third type is non-understanding.
It can bedivided into several sub-types.
The partner couldnot hear the previous turn, he/she finds the infor-mation surprising and decides to check it, or he/shedid not understand the utterance.
There are twolinguistic subtypes of this act.
The first is open ini-tiation (formed by some very general words: ah,what) that do not determine the location of theproblem.
The typical response is repeating of in-formation.
The second subtype is specifying initia-tion, formed by a wh-question.
The typicalresponse is adjusting, extending or clarification.We are currently interested in the last sub-groupthat differs from information questions by contentand not by linguistic form.
It appears very fre-quently in information dialogues.Clients often ask too general questions and theconsultant is not able to answer without adjustingthe questions.
Traditionally, such situations werenot considered as repairs.
The reason may be thatsuch repair is very seldom in everyday dialoguesthat usually form the basis of the typology of re-pairs.
To the contrary, repairs of this type are fre-quent in information dialogues.
Thus weintroduced a special act for such repair which wecall adjusting the conditions of answer (example6).
(6) H: tahaks odavalt ?Inglismaales?ita.
(0.5)  REQUESTI want to travel to England cheaplyV: jaa?
(0.5) CONTINUERyesH: j?rgmisel n?dalal.ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: ADJUSTINGthe next weekV: reisite ?ksi v?i ?kahekesi.ADJUSTING THE CONDITIONS OF ANSWERdo you travel alone or two togetherH: kahe?kesi.
(0.5) ANSWER ASALTERNATIVE: ONEtwo togetherV: sis saab seda Es?tonian Airi?kaks ?he hinnaga ?pakkumist kasu-tada.
FULFILLING DIRECTIVE:GIVING INFORMATIONthen you can use the Estonian Air offer: twowith one priceIt is defined as follows: this act must react to arequest or a question.
The purpose of the act is toget additional information in order to provide theanswer.
Consultants typically use this act.5.2 Refusal and Missing InformationThe second problem group are situations where theanswerer is not able to give information.
Threecases can be differentiated depending on continua-tion of dialogue: the answerer does not have theneeded information, he/she refuses to give it, orhe/she cannot give it immediately.If the answerer does not have the informationthen the questioner must abandon the followingattempts.In the case of having information we have twopossibilities depending on whether the answerer isthe consultant or client.
The first possibility can beexcluded because the consultant (computer) as aninstitutional provider of information may not re-fuse to give information.
The second case is possi-ble, the client may refuse and moreover, he is notobliged to explain such behaviour.
From the pointof view of continuation of conversation we havesimilar solution here as in the case of missing in-formation.
Therefore we annotate both acts as re-fusing to answer.If the answerer cannot give information imme-diately then the conversation can continue in twodifferent ways.
First, the question or request wastoo general, and after the questioner has adjusted itthe answerer will be able to give the needed infor-mation or point to its absence.
There are four ad-justing possibilities in Estonian dialogues.The most frequently used possibility is that theanswerer asks the questioner to adjust the previousquestion.
In this case he/she reacts to a general re-quest by using particles (jaa, jah /yes/ etc.).
Suchreaction is marked as a continuer (example 6).The second possibility is that the answerer asksadjustable questions himself/herself.
Such act iscalled adjusting the conditions of the answer (ex-ample 6).The third possibility is to avoid the reaction.
Atoo general request or question is followed by apause.The fourth possibility is that the answerer re-fuses to answer but he/she proposes another way tothe partner to get the needed information (per e-mail, fax, to go to the office, etc.
).In human-computer interaction it can be sup-posed that the computer tries to answer all the gen-eral questions and uses adjusting acts for thispurpose.Another case is if the answerer does not haveconditions to give information.
In example 7, theclient wants to know the price of the car repair.Obviously, the consultant has a previous under-standing of the price, therefore we cannot annotatehis turn as missing information.
But he is not ableto say the exact price without seeing the car andtherefore he cannot give the answer during the cur-rent conversation.
(7) H: ?
mis see umbes ?maksma v?iksminna.
(0.8) ja kui ?kiiresti.
(0.5) OPEN QUESTIONhow much does it cost approximatelyV: no ?t?hendab=?, (.
)k?igepealt ?mina vaatan ?autot,[vaatan] ?asju, mis ma pean ?allapanema,it means I shall see the car see the things that Imust useH:[jah]   CONTINUERyesV: sis ma ?tlen ?hinna.REFUSING TO ANSWERthen I?ll tell the pricesellep?arst=et=et=et kui=ma kui=mapanen ?alla need ?asjad, mis ?teiemulle ?pakute: see asi p?rast ei?t?
?ta, ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:ARGUMENTATIONbecause if if I?ll use the things you are offeringthis thing will not work laterH: a:hah     (3.2) CONTINUERV: ma ei ?saa ee ?v?lja pakkuda?hinda ?selle p?hjal, mida ma ei?n?e.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:ARGUMENTATIONI can not offer the price if I do not seeSimilarly to the first parts, (most of) the secondparts of directives have analogues in the group ofanswers to questions, cf.
table 1.Table 1.
Correspondence between some secondparts of APs.Alternative answer: oneAlternative answer:bothAlternative answer:thirdAlternative answer:otherAlternative answer:negativeOpen answer:giving informationFulfilling directive: giv-ing informationOpen answer:missing informationFulfilling directive:missing informationRefusing of answer Refusing of directivePostponing the answer Postponing the answerof directiveUnsure answerAnswer as an alternativeRestricted fulfilling ofdirectiveAgreeing yesAgreeing noAgreement with direc-tiveNon-agreeing no Non-agreement withdirective6 ConclusionOur further work will concentrate on the defini-tions of dialogue acts.
The frame formalism can beused.
Some examples of the definitions can befound in (Koit, Oim 2000).
In this process we willmake additions to our annotation guide.
The kappavalue of the annotation must be increased, cur-rently it is between 0.59 (for face-to-face dialoguesin travel bureau) and 0.79 (for calls to informa-tion).
Our further aim is to develop a programmewhich will implement statistical learning methodsfor recognising dialogue acts.7 AcknowledgementThis work was supported in part by Estonian Sci-ence Foundation under Grant No.
4555.ReferencesAllwood, Jens; Ahlsen, Elisabeth; Bj?rnberg, Maria;Nivre, Joakim.
2001.
Social activity and communica-tion act-related coding.
In Cothenburg Papers inTheoretical Linguistics 85.
Dialog Coding ?
Functionand Grammar.
G?teborg Coding Schemas.
Ed byJens Allwood.
Goteburg.
1?
28.Bunt, Harry.
1999.
Dynamic Interpretation and Dia-logue Theory.
// The Structure of Multimodal Dia-logue II.
Ed.
By M.M.
Taylor, F. Neel, and D.G.Bouwhuis.
John Benjamins Publishing Company,Phiadelphia/Amsterdam, 1999, pp.
139-166.Dybkj?r, Laila.
2000.
MATE Deliverable D6.2.
FinalReport http://mate.nis.sdu.dk/about/deliverables.html(variant 27.08.2002).Edwards, Jane.
1995.
Principles and alternative systemsin the transcription, coding and mark-up of spokendiscourse.
In Geoffrey Leech, Greg Myers, JennyThomas (eds.
), Spoken English on Computer.
Tran-scription, Mark-up and Application.
London: Long-man, 19-34.Francis, Gill and Susan Hunston.
1992.
Analysing eve-ryday conversation.
//Advances in Spoken DiscourseAnalysis.
Ed.
By Malcolm Coulthard.
Routledge,London&New York, 123-161.Hennoste, Tiit.
2003.
Question-answer adjacency pairsrelations in information dialogues: Estonian case.//Norfa network Nordtalk.
Corpus-based research onSpoken Language (in press).Hennoste, Tiit.
2000-2001.
Sissejuhatus suulisesse eestikeelde I-IX.
In Akadeemia 5, 1117-1150; 6, 1343-1374; 7, 1553-1582; 8, 1773-1806; 9, 2011-2038; 10,2223-2254; 11, 2465-2486; 12, 2689-2710; 1,179-206.Hennoste, Tiit; Liina Lindstr?m, Andriela R?
?bis, PiretToomet, Riina Vellerind.
2001.
Tartu UniversityCorpus of Spoken Estonian.
In Congressus NonusInternationalis Fenno-Ugristarum 7.-13.8.2000 Tartu.Pars IV.
Dissertationes sectionum: Linguistica I. Re-degit: T?nu Seilenthal.
Curaverunt: Anu Nurk, TriinuPalo.
Tartu, 345-351.Hutchby, Ian; Wooffitt, Robin.
1998.
ConversationAnalysis.
Principles, Practices and Applications.
Pol-ity Press.J?nsson, Arne and Nils Dahlb?ck.
2000.
Distilling dia-logues - A method using natural dialogue corpora fordialogue systems development Proceedings of 6thApplied Natural Language Processing Conference,Seattle, 44-51.Koit, Mare and Haldur Oim.
2000.
Dialogue manage-ment in the agreement negotiation process: a modelthat involves natural reasoning // The 1st SIGdialWorkshop on Discourse and Dialogue.
Ed.
L.Dybkjaer, K. Hasida, D. Traum.
HongKong, Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics (ACL), 2000,102-111.Mengel, A.; Dybkj?r, L.; Garrido, J. M.; Heid, U.;Klein, M.; Pirrelli, V.; Poesio, M.; Quazza, S.; Schif-frin, A.; Soria, C. 2000.
MATE Dialogue AnnotationGuidelines.
Dialogue acts.
In http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/projekte/mate/mdag/da/da_1.html (vari-ant 9.
02.
2001).Schegloff, E.; G. Jefferson; H. Sacks 1977.
The prefer-ence for self-correction in the organization of repairin conversation.
In Language 52:2, 361-382.Sinclair, J.M.
; Coulthard, R.M.
1975.
Towards ofAnalysis of Discourse: The English used by Teachersand Pupils.
London: Oxford UP.Stenstr?m, Anna-Brita 1994.
An Introduction to SpokenInteraction.
London and New York: Longman.Stolcke, Andreas; Coccaro, Noah; Bates, Rebecca; Tay-lor, Paul; Van Ess-Dykema, Carol; Ries, Klaus;Shriberg, Elizabeth; Jurafsky, Daniel; Martin, Ra-chel; Meteer, Marie.
2000.
Dialogue act modeling forautomatic tagging and recognition of conversationalspeech.
In Computaional Linguistics 26:3, 339?373.Strandson, Krista.
2001.
Kuidas vestluskaaslane paran-dusprotsessi algatab.
In Keel ja Kirjandus 6, 394-409.Appendix 1.
Dialogue ActsOnly the acts are listed that are essential for the current paper.I.
Adjacency pair acts1.
Rituals/--/2.
Restructuring acts/--/3.
Contact controlCONTINUER/--/4.
Repair4.1.
Initiating repairRE-FORMULATIONRE-QUESTIONNON-UNDERSTANDINGOTHER4.2.
PERFORMING REPAIR4.3.
EVALUATING REPAIR4.4.
OTHER5.
Questions5.1.
First partsBy formCLOSED YES-NO QUESTIONOPEN YES-NO QUESTIONALTERNATIVE QUESTIONOPEN QUESTIONQUESTION THAT OFFERS ANSWERBy contentADJUSTING QUESTIONADJUSTING THE CONDITIONS OFANSWEROTHER5.2.
Second partsAGREEING YESNON-AGREEING NOAGREEING NOOTHER ANSWER TO YES-NO QUESTIONANSWER AS ALTERNATIVE: ONEANSWER AS ALTERNATIVE: BOTHANSWER AS ALTERNATIVE: THIRDANSWER AS ALTERNATIVE: NEGATIVEANSWER AS ALTERNATIVE: OTHEROPEN ANSWER: GIVING INFORMATIONOPEN ANSWER: MISSING INFORMATIONPOSTPOSING THE ANSWERREFUSING OF ANSWERANSWER AS AN ALTERNATIVEUNSURE ANSWEROTHER6.
Directives6.1.
First partsREQUESTPROPOSALOFFEROTHER6.2.
Second partsFULFILLING DIRECTIVE: GIVINGINFORMATIONFULFILLING DIRECTIVE: MISSINGINFORMATIONFULFILLING DIRECTIVE: ACTIONAGREEMENT WITH DIRECTIVEREFUSAL OF DIRECTIVEPOSTPONING THE ANSWER OF DIRECTIVERESTRICTED FULFILLING OF DIRECTIVERESTRICTED AGREEMENT WITHDIRECTIVEOTHER7.
Opinions/--/II.
Non-AP actsADDITIONAL INFORMATION: ARGUMEN-TATIONADDITIONAL INFORMATION: SPECIFYINGPROMISE/--/Appendix 2.
Transcription marksfalling intonation  pointfall not to low   commaraising intonation  ?short interval (max 0.2 sec) (.
)timed interval   (2.0)begin of overlap  [end of overlap   ]latching at end of utterance word=latching at beginning  =worddrawling   ::stress  ` at the beginning of the stressed syllableglottal cut off   do-in-breath   .hhhitem in doubt   {text}unreachable text  {---}
