The Semantics of Metaphor in the Game Theoretic Semanticswith at Least Two Coordination EquilibriaChiaki OhkuraDivision of Information ScienceGraduate School of Science and TechnologyChiba University1-33 Yayoicho, Inageku, Chiba 263-8522 Japancohkura@cogsci.L.chiba-u.ac.jpAbstractThe objective of this paper is to present anew dimension of Game Theoretic Se-mantics (GTS) using the idea of the coor-dination problem game to explain thesemantics of metaphor.
A metaphoricalexpression1such as ?man is a wolf?
is acontradictory statement that insists allobjects in the set of ?man?
also falls under?wolf?.
The study of metaphorical expres-sion should be on intentions of such con-tradictory language use, their intendedeffect, and the conditions to lead to the ef-fects.
This is the tradition of Rhetoricsince Aristotle.
It may be natural to char-acterize this approach as pragmatic in thetradition of the late 20th century paradigmof linguistics, which is the trichotomy ofsyntax, semantics and pragmatics.
How-ever the pragmatic approach cannot ex-plain what Richards (1936) called?tension?
between two thoughts in a meta-phorical expression.
GTS has been devel-1In this paper, I say ?metaphorical expression?
ratherthan ?metaphor?.
?Metaphor?
is commonly used as atopic, but it is used at word level in traditional rhetoricand at sentence level after Black.
Also, ?metaphor?
isused for both metaphorical expression and a kind oftrope.
So I use ?metaphorical expression?
to refer lin-guistic expression which is commonly called ?metaphor?.oped as a possible substitute to the Tar-skian truth conditional semantics.
Thispaper explores a new possibility of GTSin the coordination problem game intro-duced by Lewis (1961) for a semantics,which admits the plurality of meanings.1 IntroductionThe objective of this paper is to present a new di-mension of Game Theoretic Semantics (GTS) us-ing the idea of the coordination problem game in asearch for the semantics of metaphor:(ex.1) ?Man is a human being.?
(ex.2) ?Man is a wolf.
?If being ?man?
presupposes being ?human be-ing?, then what (ex.1) means is that all objectsfalling under the category (or the set) of ?man?
alsofall under ?human being?, so (ex.1) must be true apriori.
In the same way, (ex.2) means that all ob-jects falling under ?man?
also fall under ?wolf?, andthis must be false, a contradictory expression.
Butwe can easily imagine some situations where (ex.2)would be meaningful.EXAMPLE: Sue went to a party.
Her friend,Pam introduced Ian to her because she knewSue had broken up recently, and she had a be-lief that Sue should have a new partner.
Sueenjoyed the conversation with him and foundhim very attractive.
Ian appeared to feel thesame way.
When Sue took her leave, Ian of-fered a lift for her.
Pam, who was watching outfor them, winked and said ?Sue, ?
?man is awolf?
?, you know?.In this example, Pam?s uttering ?man is a wolf?does not seem contradictory.
It is very natural andlooks meaningful even though it may admit severalinterpretations.
Therefore, this kind of sentence canbe meaningful in our everyday usage.But uttering a contradictory expression is a de-viation from our general understanding about lan-guage use.
The utterer?s intentions as to why sucha deviation is made, its intended effects and theconditions to materialize the intended effects: thesehave been the objective of the study of metaphor inthe tradition of rhetoric.Metaphor has been regarded as a part of rheto-ric.
But if we focus on the fact that it uses ?utterer?and ?use?
as its items, it may be natural to regardrhetoric as a part in pragmatics in the trichotomy ofsyntax, semantics and pragmatics in the late 20thcentury linguistic paradigm.
In the first section, Iwill examine the pragmatic approach, Aristotle andDavidson, and make clear that these are notenough to present what metaphor means, and weneed to choose a semantic approach.Richards, who opened the new path to seman-tics, introduced the idea of ?tension?.
In the tradi-tion of rhetoric, metaphor had been thought to have?two thoughts in a sentence?2(Richards).
Richardsexplained the special property that metaphoricalexpression has and normal expression does not, isin the tension, which is born between these twothoughts in one expression.
What Richards calls?tension?
is the interaction of meanings betweenliteral meaning and metaphorical meaning in anexpression.
This ?tension?, which cannot be ex-plained by a pragmatic approach, is the foundationof the semantic approach lead by Richards andBlack.2What Richards means by ?thoughts?
is not clear, but Iassume it is literal meaning and metaphorical meaning.Partly he seems to admit two meanings and partly heseems to admit only one meaning in metaphorical ex-pression.
Sometimes he seems to mean comparison ob-jects as in comparison theory.
However what isimportant is not what he meant, but what he suggests.However, even semantic approach had failed toexplain ?tension?
completely.
It is because majorsemantics based on the Tarskian truth definitionstate the meaning of a sentence is only one.
?Ten-sion?
needs to have more than two meanings in asentence by definition.Existing GTS uses mainly zero-sum games.
Theequilibrium is corresponded to the meaning of asentence, so each sentence has one meaning.
Thisdoes not meet the condition of meaning that wedemand for the semantics of metaphor in the lineof Richards?
idea.The coordination problem game is a type ofgame which Lewis analyses as a part of this theoryof convention (Lewis, 1961).
There must be atleast more than two equilibria in the game by defi-nition.
If we apply this game as a model of mean-ing in GTS, those equilibria can correspond to theplural meanings in a metaphorical expression.
Thisconclusion promises us a simple model of thecomplex state of meanings in figurative language.2 From Pragmatic Approach to SemanticApproachIn this section, I criticize Aristotle and Davidson asrepresentatives of the pragmatic approach to thestudy of metaphor and show that the semantic ap-proach is necessary for the study of metaphoricalexpressions.
Afterwards, I analyze Richard andBlack?s semantic approaches and point out thatpragmatic elements are still left in their approaches.A more abstract semantic approach is needed.2.1 Aristotle and Traditional RhetoricAristotle?s ??Poetics??
and ??Rhetoric??
have beenthe foundation of rhetorical studies for more than2300 years.
Aristotle regards metaphor as transfer-ence and this thought has lasted as the core idea inthe tradition of rhetoric.Metaphor is the application of an alien name bytransference either from genus to species, orfrom species to genus, or from species to spe-cies, or by analogy, that is, proportion.
(1457b)According to Aristotle, expression ?the twilightof gods?
is a transference between ?twilight?
and?last?
which have similarity (end of something).
Bysimilarity, words are connected and can have theother?s meaning.
In other words, similarity letswords have other meanings (metaphorical mean-ings) that the words originally do not have.
Blackcalls it the substitution view of metaphor (1962).Substitution theory insists that the reason formetaphorical expression is in its psychological ef-fects to hearers.
Here, metaphor is studied in termsof how it is used and what the effect is of languageuse.
This let us categorize substitution theory as apart in pragmatics.
Pragmatics is the study abouthow and why language is used, using user and useas the terms.
So does substitution theory.2.2 Davidson?s PragmaticsDavidson is regarded as one of the leading phi-losophers in the pragmatic approaches.
He deniesmetaphorical meaning in metaphorical expression,which has never been doubted without much ar-gument.
Metaphorical expressions have literalmeaning only.
We realize an expression is meta-phorical though a purely pragmatic process.
Anutterance is made and the conditions bring us torealize that the meaning of the utterance is not lit-eral (Davidson, 1978).What Davidson explains is only this realizationof non-literal meaning.
Metaphorical meaning it-self is denied and he makes it clear that there is nosuch thing as metaphorical meaning, a special kindof mental, cognitive property.
This is remarkableprogress from Aristotelian substitution theory interms of avoiding problems of paraphrasing whichI will criticize in the next sub-section in detail.
Da-vidson says; ?If this is right, what we attempt in?paraphrasing?
a metaphor cannot be to give itsmeaning, for that lies on the surface; rather we at-tempt to evoke what the metaphor brings to ourattention.?
(Davidson, 1978)What paraphrasing attempts is not similaritybetween literal meaning and metaphorical meaning.Since Davidson denies metaphorical meaning itself,he does not need to compare two meanings.There are at least two points to criticize David-son.
Firstly, to pursue what is the meaning ofmetaphor itself is a very important question andDavidson?s reply is just an escape from the prob-lem, though it is quite a remarkable escape.
Onesays ?he is a pumpkin?
and if another does not un-derstand the utterance and asks what it means,paraphrasing (?it means he is very stupid?)
is a pos-sible answer and the paraphrasing does have sense.Paraphrasing may not be able to have exactly thesame mental content that the original metaphoricalexpression has, but it does have a part of it.
Other-wise the hearer cannot be persuaded.Secondly, insisting there is no such thing asmetaphorical meaning is a revolution and very in-spiring, but it might be too unnatural since we cantalk and wonder about it.
In this field of study, re-ality has a special sense because what we argueabout is mainly abstract objects that do not need toexist.
However, we should stick to our reality, oursense of naturalness, not to recreate our languageunderstanding to fit our theories.
What matters tous with metaphorical expressions are not only theutterer?s intention, but also the meaning of the ex-pressions.2.3 Problems in Substitution TheoryThe first two of the following points are majorcriticisms of substitution theory.
Firstly, the meta-phorical meanings of a metaphorical expression donot substitute all of the literal meaning.
The secondpoint reflects my idea of understanding meanings.Substitution theory says that similarity makes ametaphor, similarity in the meanings of two com-pared ideas (literal meaning and metaphoricalmeaning) makes a metaphorical expression.
Butthis is complete opposite.The first objection, that metaphorical meaningsin a metaphorical expression do not substitute allthe literal meanings of the expression, is, in otherwords: paraphrasing of a metaphorical expressioncannot present all the meanings that the originalmetaphorical expression has.
(ex.3) She is a lily of valley.
(ex.4) She is a dewy red rose.These expressions can be paraphrased;(ex.5) She is beautiful.It is apparent that (ex.5) hold a part of the mean-ings that (ex.3) and (ex.4) have, but not all of them,because the same person may not use (ex.3) and(ex.4) to the same woman with the same sense ofvalues.
Repetition of paraphrasing may increasethe richness of the explanation and lead to betterunderstanding, but it will never reach the fullmeaning of the original expression.The second objection claims that similaritydoes not make metaphor, but metaphor makes usrealize the similarity.
As Eisenstein created the?flow?
of story by montage sequence in his film?
?Battleship Potemkin?
?, people try to find seman-tic connection when some information is given in aline.
Especially, if it is presented as a sentence, wealmost automatically try to find ?meaning?
in it.
?Colorless green ideas sleep furiously?
is a famousmeaningless sentence written by Chomsky.
Hemade up this sentence as nonsensical sentence, buthe himself admits that it can be interpreted as ametaphor.
It can be a headline of newspaper thattells Greenpeace members who lost their livelinessto stop their political activities.Those objections above to pragmatic approach3to metaphor suggest that there are elements in thestudy of metaphor that are to be left for the seman-tic approach.
In the next sub-section, I will revisethe semantic approach in Richards and Black.2.4 Richards?
Interaction TheoryRichards introduces interaction theory that insiststhe meaning of metaphor is the tension betweentwo thoughts (literal meaning and metaphoricalmeaning) in a sentence.
Before him, metaphor hadbeen studied at word level.
Richards brought theviewpoint of semantics which focus on meaning atsentence level.Another character of his theory is to demandunlikeliness between literal meaning and meta-phorical meaning.
This unlikeliness is the source ofthe tension, literal, artistic value that the metaphorhas.
Richards says, ?
?as the two things put togetherare more remote, the tension created is, of course,greater?
?.2.5 Black?s Interaction TheoryBlack develops interaction theory to more rigidtheory that covers not only figurative language butthe whole of language.
He introduces the idea of?focus?
and ?frame?.
For Black, metaphorical ex-pression ?Man is a wolf?
is an expression that has a3Here, I would like to state what I mean by ?pragmatics?.I interpreted Aristotle as a pragmatist.
In Aristotle, lan-guage use is judged as rhetoric when the use is under-stood.
It is a context-conscious theory.
Semanticscarries a different task.
It should give the foundation ofmeaning.
It should give other property different fromthe condition of language use.focus ?a wolf?
in a linguistic frame of ?man is?.This frame is literal, but it will be contradictorywhen ?a wolf?
is also literal (principal subject).
Werealize this categorical mistake and find ?focus?metaphorical meaning (subsidiary subject) led byassociation of commonplaces.
Associated com-monplaces enable us to share the same metaphori-cal meaning for the same expression.
Literalmeaning is inferred first, then after realizing itscategorical mistake, metaphorical meaning is in-ferred.
This inference model is often used in thesemantic approach after Black.2.6 Problems in Interaction TheoryIn the two previous sub-sections, I have revised themain characters of Richards and Black?s interac-tion theory.
These are more sophisticated thanAristotelian substitution theory for admitting thedynamics of meaning.
However some problemsalso remain in interaction theory.Firstly, Black succeeds to explain why we un-derstand the so-called ?dead metaphor?
in the sameway, why we see similarities in metaphor by intro-ducing the idea of ?associated commonplaces?.
Butthis also weakens the creativity of new metaphori-cal expressions.
If ?associated commonplaces?gives us stable understanding of meanings, thisalso prevent us not to have a new metaphoricalmeaning out of the system.Secondly, although Black strongly insists thenecessity of semantics in his study of metaphor,Black?s theory uses the inference model which isvery pragmatic.
What he tries to express in his se-mantics was the meaning which is understood incontext.
Therefore he needs inference model andassociated commonplaces.
I do not deny the infer-ence model.
We use our inference in our languageuse to determine one meaning for an expression.But semantics, which gives the foundation ofmeanings to language use, should avoid such apragmatic process.
We should separate semanticsand pragmatics as clearly as possible.3 Tasks for the Semantics of MetaphorIn the previous section, we have overlooked somemajor theories for metaphor.
I sorted them into twotypes, the pragmatic approach and the semanticapproach.
What is characteristic in the pragmaticapproach is that what matters in a metaphor is itsuse and effect.
In Davidson, he even denies meta-phorical meaning and replaces it with the psy-chological effect of literal meaning.
The semanticapproach like Black criticizes Aristotelian para-phrasing and admits metaphorical meaning deliv-ered though inference.
This also means thatmetaphorical meaning is subsidiary meaning.These two are very complex and we cannot seea clear confrontation between them.
The pragmaticapproach cannot avoid referring to metaphoricalmeaning when we consider the reason of meta-phorical language use.
The semantic approach alsocannot evade using inference model, which maybelong to pragmatics.Let?s be naive, and remember how we read anew metaphorical expression.
(ex.6)?She was a swan floating on the sea;alone swan on the sea of sorrowblue sea, nor blue sky could not hold her.
?Do we think about their literal meanings?
No4.
Weunderstand the metaphorical meaning of ?sea ofsorrow?
before thinking of its literal meaning.
Andwhen we enjoy its literal value, we read (or hear) itagain and again, may think about its metaphoricalmeaning and literal meaning.
We do enjoy thesetwo thoughts in an expression, and the tension thatthose thoughts create.
In this account, I follow in-teraction theory that Richards insists.What I have argued in this section are;1.
A metaphorical expression has some mean-ings including literal meaning and metaphori-cal meaning.2.
Metaphorical meaning cannot be paraphrased.Repeating paraphrasing cannot give theoriginal metaphorical meaning.3.
Semantics is a description of language ex-pression, not language interpretation, so it4I have received some inspiring commentary on thispoint.
Some argue that they gain mental image of a lit-eral sea immediately after reading it.
My answer to thisclaim is what they gained is actually a metaphoricalmeaning of the expression.
Literal ?sea?
has a contra-diction to ?of sorrow?.
The image may resemble to itsliteral meaning though.should exclude the inference process as a partof it.The four theorists we have reviewed cannotsatisfy these three conditions.
To meet the demand,we need to have a semantics, which allows the plu-rality of meanings in an expression.4 GTS with the Idea of CoordinationProblem GameGTS (Game Theoretic Semantics) has been devel-oped as an alternative semantics where major se-mantics have been based on Tarski?s definition oftruth.
As the name shows, GTS is a semantics thatmodels the idea of game theory.
Most GTS theo-rists use zero-sum games between two players,Myself (Verifier) and Nature (Falsifier) for in Hin-tikka, for example.
Verifier tries to make a sen-tence true and Falsifier does the opposite.
Whetherthe sentence is true or false is known by knowingwho will win the game.
It is to state one meaningfor a sentence, and the meaning is compared withan equilibrium in a game.
However, if we keepusing zero-sum games, we cannot represent morethan two meanings in a sentence.4.1 Coordination Problem GameCoordination problem game, which is analyzedand defined by Lewis (1961), is a game with atleast two equilibria.
Suppose we are talking on thetelephone and in the middle of the conversation,the line is suddenly cut off.
I will wonder whether Ishould call back because if you call me while I callyou, the line will be busy and we cannot reacheach other.
At the same time, you must be won-dering if you should call me.
This is a problem.In this telephone line case, it can be a problembecause there are at least two equilibria in thissituation; one is the caller calls back and the re-ceiver waits, and another is the caller waits and thereceiver calls back.
Which to choose is not a prob-lem.
The important thing is that there are twoequilibria, which are indifferent for the caller tochoose, so they wonder.
Lewis calls this kind ofproblem ?coordination problems?, and equilibrium?coordination equilibrium?.
Players of these gameswish to coordinate according to their expectationsabout what the other is going to do to gain a betteroutcome comparing to not coordinating.The coordination problem games have at leasttwo coordination equilibria by definition.
There-fore using GTS with a coordination problem game,we can represent a sentence having more than twomeanings.A metaphorical sentence corresponds to a coor-dination problem game which has two equilibriathat correspond to literal meaning and metaphori-cal meaning.
Since both coordination equilibria aresame in its role as equilibrium, none of the mean-ings is superior or inferior (Figure 1).CoordinationEquilibriumLiteralMeaningCoordinationEquilibriumMetaphoricalMeaningFigure 1Interestingly, this coordination problem gamealso has ?tension?.
A player of this game has tomake a choice which will be meaningless if hischoice differs from another?s.
We do not wonderwhen we have only one choice.
We have to take it.But the players in coordination problem game haveat least two choices.
This presence of two choicesitself is the ?tension?
of the metaphorical expres-sion.
Being of one affects the other.
They interact.The reason of enjoyable uneasiness of metaphori-cal expression is in this interaction in thispolysemy.With GTS extended by coordination problemgame, we gain the following three points.Firstly, semantics that allows more than twomeanings for a sentence is possible.
The semanticsalso promises us to find both literal and metaphori-cal meanings in a sentence.As a result of the first point, metaphoricalmeaning does not remain in its subsidiary positioninferred from primary meaning.
It is a meaning asimportant as literal meaning.The being of two equilibria represents ?tension?that Richards insists as the character of the mean-ing of metaphorical expressions.4.2 Difference from Hintikka?s GTSThis coordination problem game is very differentfrom what Hintikka and his followers use.
In Hin-tikka?s GTS, game directs the logical operation oflogic of a sentence in order to state truth and false-hood of the sentence.
It is because the meaning ofthe expression is to be one.On the contrary, coordination problem game it-self cannot be operated as Hintikka?s does becausethe game has two equilibria and this is the point ofthe game.However Lewis starts his analysis from thegame and ends in convention.
According to Lewis,people in the ill telephone line area start makingconvention that one of them (caller or receiver)should call back.
After the convention spreads overthe area, the game has a unique equilibrium and theresidents find the problem solved5.In the process of building up convention, theelements to determine which equilibrium to fall inare out of the game.
In the case of metaphor, I letthem belong to the area of pragmatics.
Thoughcontext, we use our inference system to determine,to grasp what is meant by the expression when it ispolysemous.
We may know what is the subject,what is the intention of the utterer, which meaningshould be appropriate in the time and place when itis expressed.
These are the problems to be left inthe consideration of the inference process.4.3 Problem of ?Dead Metaphor?What makes the difference between literal meaningand metaphorical meaning?
I think this is just amatter of frequency of use.
?Dead metaphor?
is a type of metaphor of whichmetaphorical meaning is rigid and most of us un-derstand it in same way so that often we find itsmetaphorical meaning in dictionary.
On the otherhand, we have very new, poetic metaphors thatmay be understood in various ways.
Also there aremetaphors of which metaphorical meaning becameits literal meaning and do not have original literalmeaning as you see in ?leg of chair?.5It may remain as a coordination problem game becauseany new resident moves to the area, they may havesame problem until he finds out the convention or is toldby someone.
The potential possibility of the problem isalways there.The differences between those types of meta-phors are matter of frequency of use.
If a very newmetaphorical expression is used, its metaphoricalmeaning may be ambiguous, can be paraphrasedbut possibly misunderstood.
But as the expressionis used again and again, its metaphorical meaninggrows to gain common interpretation in the usedlanguage.
As the metaphorical meaning becomescommon understanding of the expression, themetaphorical expression starts loosing its tensionbetween literal meaning and metaphorical meaning.This is how a metaphorical expression is born anddies.This is still just a suggestion of the life of ametaphorical expression.
One of the biggest prob-lems to this account is that it does not explain howwe understand very new metaphorical expressionwhich we had never heard of.
We need the study ofother level of meaning to explain it.
But still, if weunderstand those different types of metaphoricalexpressions are on a same line, continuous being, itmay be fruitful of the semantics of metaphoricalexpression.5 Why More Than Two Meanings?In this section, I will spread my idea of the mean-ings in metaphorical expressions through someobservations of the usage.5.1 Meanings in a Polysemous ExpressionOne of the main points of this paper is that it isaiming to express the state of meaning of an ex-pression, not the meaning that is understood.
Ineveryday conversation, we often assure what is themeaning of the expression that we use with phaseslike ?you know what I mean.?
?the meaning of thisterm is...?.
This is necessary when we come acrosssome polysemous expression.If the meaning of the sentence is clear in itscontext, then utterer does not need to assure itsmeaning, but when the utterer assure its meaningwith other words.
Here, we see two characters ofpolysemous expression.
Firstly, a polysemous ex-pression has more than two meanings.
Secondly, apolysemous expression need to be defined itsmeaning in the usage by context.5.2 Metaphorical Meanings in an ExpressionLet?s go back to our familiar example.
(ex.2) ?Man is a wolf?This is often understood as a metaphor to expressman?s hunger and brutality.
However ?wolf?
hasdifferent aspects in its image.
In Mongolia, wolf isthe divine animal and the Mongolian hero, Ching-gis Khan is called ?blue wolf?.
Other East Asianmyths regard Sirius as wolf and attributes loneli-ness and rationality to the star.
In this context,?man is a wolf?
may means ?man is a creaturewhich has clear eyes to see and judge with his ownevaluation, holds his own view even others areagainst him?.
This image may also be found in?lone wolf?
in English.What I intend to do here is not insisting multi-culturalism.
What I do is to insist that metaphoricalexpressions are polysemous expressions.
And as Iwrote above, the meaning of polysemous expres-sion is determined in its context (if it is successful).As the name ?polysemy?
tells, we attribute morethan two meanings to an expression.
Why can?t wedo same treatment to metaphors?The ?man is a wolf?
expression has at least oneliteral meaning which is a false expression in ourworld, and two metaphorical meanings.
When wesay we understand the meaning of an expression,this means that we choose a meaning of the ex-pression successfully.
The meaning of a meta-phorical expression is inferred and one of them ischosen.Metaphorical expressions are often found inpoetical expressions.
(ex.7) ?my love wears forbidden colors?What is ?forbidden colors??
How ?love?
wearscolor?
As the expression is newer, we considerwhat is really meant and try to grasp its metaphori-cal meaning through its literal meaning, we comeand go between those two meanings6.
In this proc-ess, we see both meanings in a metaphorical ex-pression.
When we ?taste?
a poetic expression, weoften go through this process and this process itselfis a part of the ?tasting?
of the poem.
When we en-joy poems, we enjoy how the literal meaning and6?grasp its metaphorical meaning through its literalmeaning?
sounds as if I admit to use the inference modelfor semantics.
But here, I am talking about how we un-derstand, not about semantics.metaphorical meaning are related.
This is whatRichards called ?tension?
and this is the meaning ofmetaphorical expression.
In order to express this?tension?, we should admit both literal and meta-phorical meanings in a sentence.5.3 The Meanings of ?meaning?The semantics with coordination problem gamehave different meaning of ?meaning?
from the onein traditional understanding of metaphor.When they ask ?what metaphor mean?
?, theyhave a presupposition that there is a semanticproperty that corresponds to a metaphorical ex-pression.
With coordination problem game, whatcorresponds to a metaphorical expression is a gamethat has two equilibria.
The meaning of a meta-phorical expression is a game that has two ?mean-ings?, which are two choices with the tensioncaused by the coexistence of the two meanings.6 ConclusionMetaphor is an expression in which there is bothliteral meaning and metaphorical meaning.
This ismy answer to the question, ?What is metaphor?
?.Metaphorical meaning is one of the meanings thata metaphorical expression has.
It may be clear byits context.
But it is not inferred from logical con-tradiction when we understand the expression withits literal meaning.Some, important problems are still left unsolved.I mention one of them as my next task to do im-mediately: GTS extended with coordination prob-lem game allows us to have more than twomeanings in an expression or a sentence.
However,we cannot distinguish these two meanings in thisGTS.
Since we can distinguish which is literal andwhich is metaphorical, we should be able to do thesame thing in our semantics.ReferencesAristotle The Poetics, Translated by S. H. Butcher, TheInternet Classics Archive by Daniel C. Stevenson,Web Atomics.URL=http://classics.mit.edu/Aristotle/poetics.mb.txtAristotle 1954.
Rhetoric, translated by W. Rhys Roberts,hypertextual resource compiled by Lee HoneycuttURL=http://www.public.iastate.edu/~honeyl/Rhetoric/index.htmlBlack, Max 1978. in Sacks 1978.Black, Max 1962.
Models and Metaphors: Studies inLanguage and Philosophy, Cornell University PressDavidson, Donald 1978 in Sacks 1978.Hintikka, Jaakko and Kulas, Jack 1983.
The Game ofLanguage: Studies in Game-Theoretical Semanticsand Its Applications (Synthese Language Library;v.22), D. Reidel Publishing CompanyHintikka, Jaakko and Kulas, Jack 1985.
Anaphora andDefinite Descriptions: Two Applications of Game-Theoretical Semantics (Synthese Language Library;v.26), D. Reidel Publishing CompanyHintikka, Jaakko and Sandu, Gabriel 1997. in Handbookof Logic and Language, ed.
by J. van Benthem and A.ter Meulen, Elsevier Science B. V.Hodges, Wilfrid 2001.
Logic and Games, The StanfordEncyclopedia of Philosophy, Fall 2001 Edition, ed.Edward Zalta,URL=http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2001/entries/logic-games/Lewis, David K. 1969.
Convention | A PhilosophicalStudy, Harverd University Press.Ortony, Andrew, ed.
1979.
Metaphor and Thought,Cambridge University PressRichards, I.A.
1936.
The Philosophy of Rhetoric, Ox-ford University PressSacks, Sheldon.
ed.
1978.
On Metaphor, The Universityof Chicago Press
