Experiments with geographic knowledge for information extractionDimitar Manov,Atanas Kiryakov,Borislav PopovOntotext Lab, Sirma AI Ltd38A Christo Botev Blvd, Sofia 1000,Bulgaria{mitac,naso,borislav}@sirma.bgKalina Bontcheva,Diana Maynard,Hamish CunninghamUniversity of SheffieldRegent Court, 211 Portobello St.,Sheffield S1 4DP, UK{kalina,diana,hamish}@dcs.shef.ac.ukAbstractHere we present work on using spatial knowl-edge in conjunction with information extrac-tion (IE).
Considerable volume of location datawas imported in a knowledge base (KB) withentities of general importance used for seman-tic annotation, indexing, and retrieval of text.The Semantic Web knowledge representationstandards are used, namely RDF(S).
An exten-sive upper-level ontology with more than twohundred classes is designed.
With respect to thelocations, the goal was to include the most im-portant categories considering public and tasksnot specially related to geography or related ar-eas.
The locations data is derived from num-ber of publicly available resources and com-bined to assure best performance for domain-independent named-entity recognition in text.An evaluation and comparison to high perfor-mance IE application is given.1 IntroductionInformation Extraction (IE) research has focused mainlyon the recognition of course-grained entities like Loca-tion, Organization, Person, etc.
(Sundheim, 1998).
Theapplication of Information Extraction to new areas likethe Semantic Web and knowledge management has posednew challenges, from which the most relevant here is theneed for finer-grained recognition of entities, such as lo-cations.In this paper we present some experiments with build-ing a reusable knowledge base of locations which is usedas a component into an IE system, instead of a locationgazetteer.
This work is part of the Knowledge and Infor-mation Management (KIM) platform and still undergoingdevelopment and refinement.With respect to coverage, the goal was to include themost important location categories for a wide range of ap-plications and tasks, not specially related to geography orrelated areas.
The locations data is derived from a num-ber of publicly available resources and combined to as-sure best performance for named-entity recognition.
Anevaluation and comparison to high performance IE sys-tem using very small location gazetteers is given.One important aspect of our work is that we choose tocreate a knowledge base of locations, structured accord-ing to an ontology and having relations between them, in-stead of having somewhat flat structures of gazetteer listsfound in other IE systems.
While a knowledge base canbe plugged into an IE system instead of a flat gazetteer, italso has several unique advantages:?
the extra information, especially the transitive sub-RegionOf relation can be used for disambiguationand reasoning?
the location entities in the text can be recognised atthe right level of granularity for the target applica-tion (i.e., as Location or as Country, City, etc).?
the ontology and knowledge base can be modifiedby the user and any changes are reflected immedi-ately in the output of the IE system.The paper is structured as follows.
Section 2 putsour work in the context of previous research.
Section 3presents briefly the KIM platform, which contains the IEsystem and the location knowledge base.
Then Section4 describes the location knowledge base in more detail.The IE experiments are discussed in Section 5, followedby a discussion on problems and future work.
The paperconcludes by showing how such a knowledge base can beused to bootstrap a new IE system (Section 7).2 Related workIn the context of this paper, the two most relevant areasof work are on large-scale gazetteers and location disam-biguation.
Here we present the Alexandria Digital Li-brary Gazetteer because we used the ADL Feature TypeThesaurus as a basis of our location ontology.
Relatedwork on location disambiguation, like the one done inthe Perseus Digital Library project, is relevant because infuture work we will improve the location disambiguationmechanism in our system.2.1 Alexandria Digital Library GazetteerThe Alexandria Digital Library (ADL), an NSF-fundedproject at the University of California, Santa Barbara,has included gazetteer development from its beginningin 1994.
Currently it contains approximately 4.4 mil-lion entries.
The data is taken from various sources, in-cluding NIMA (National Imagery and Mapping Agency?sof United States) Gazetteer, a set of countries and U.S.counties, set of U.S. topographic map quadrangle foot-prints, set of volcanoes, and set of earthquake epicenters.The Geographic Names Information System (GNIS) datafrom the U.S. Geological Survey has been partly addedto the collection.
The results as of today include the-saurus for feature types, Time Period data for the histori-cal entries and spatial data with boundaries.
The bound-aries are defined as ?satisficing?
rectangles.
The term?satisficing?
is described in (Hill, 2000), and additionalinformation about the project could also be found thereas well as on the ADL gazetteer development page athttp://alexandria.sdc.ucsb.edu/?lhill/adlgaz/.2.2 Toponym-disambiguation in Perseus DigitalLibrary projectA disambiguation system for historical place names forPerseus digital library is described in (Smith and Crane,2001).
The library is concentrated on representing his-torical data in the humanities from ancient Greece tonineteenth-century America.
The authors present a pro-cedure for disambiguation of such place names, based oninternal and external evidence from the text.
Internal ev-idence includes the use of honorifics, generic geographiclabels, or linguistic environment.
External evidence in-cludes gazetteers, biographical information, and generallinguistic knowledge.
Evaluation of the performance ofthe system is given, using standard precision/recall meth-ods for each of the five corpora: Greek, Roman, London,California, Upper Midwest.
The system is best on Greekand worst on Upper Midwest corpus, and its overall per-formance for place names is higher than the most of otherapplications.3 The KIM platformThe KIM Platform provides a novel Knowledge and In-formation Management (KIM1) infrastructure and ser-vices for automatic semantic annotation, indexing and re-trieval of unstructured and semi-structured content.
Theontologies and knowledge bases are kept in Semantic1KIM, see http://www.ontotext.com/kimFigure 1: KIM Platformrepositories based on cutting edge Semantic Web technol-ogy and standards, including RDF(S) repositories2, on-tology middleware3 (Kiryakov et al 2002) and reason-ing4.
It provides a mature infrastructure for scalable andcustomizable information extraction as well as annota-tion and document management, based on GATE (Cun-ningham et al, 2002).
GATE, a General Architecturefor Text Engineering, is developed by the Sheffield NLPgroup and has been used in many language processingprojects; in particular for Information Extraction in a va-riety of languages (Maynard and Cunningham, 2003).An essential idea for KIM is the semantic (or entity)annotation, depicted on figure 1.
It can be seen as a clas-sical named-entity recognition and annotation process.However, in contrast to most of the existing IE system,KIM provides for each entity reference in the text (i) apointer (URI) to the most specific class in the ontologyand (ii) pointer to the specific instance in the knowledgebase.
The latest is (to the best of our knowledge) anunique KIM feature which allows further indexing andretrieval of documents with respect to entities.For the end-user, the usage of a KIM-based applicationis straightforward and simple - one can highlight text inthe browser and further explore the available knowledgefor the entity, as shown in figure 3.
A semantic query webuser interface allows for queries such as ?Organization-2Sesame (http://sesame.aidministrator.nl/) is an open sourceRDF(S)-based repository and querying facility.RDF, http://www.w3.org/RDF/.
Resource Description Frame-work is an open standard for knowledge exchange over the Web,developed by W3C (www.w3.org).3OMM, http://www.ontotext.com/omm.
Ontology Middle-ware Module is an enterprise back-end for formal knowledgemanagement.4BOR, http://www.ontotext.com/bor/, is a DAML+OIL rea-soner, compliant with the latest OWL specifications.Figure 2: KIM architecture.locatedIn-Country?
to be executed.Information retrieval functionality is available, basedon Lucene5, which is adapted to measure relevance to en-tities instead of tokens and stems.
The full architecture isshown in figure 2.
It is important to note that KIM as asoftware platform is domain and task independent.3.1 The ontologyKIM Ontology (KIMO) covers the most general 250classes of entities and 40 relations.
The main classes areEntity, EntitySource and LexicalResource.
The most im-portant class in the ontology is Entity, further specializedinto Object, Abstract and Happening.
LexicalResourceclass and its subclasses are used for different IE-relatedinformation.
The instances of the Alias class representdifferent names of instances of Entity.
hasAlias relationis used to link Entity to its aliases (one-to-many rela-tion).
The hasMainAlias links to the main alias (the of-ficial name).
Each instance of Entity is linked to an in-stance of EntitySource via generatedBy relation.
Thereare two types of EntitySource - Trusted and Recognized.The ?trusted?
entities are those pre-defined.
The recog-nized are the ones which were recognized from text aspart of the IE tasks.The upper part of the ontology can be seen on the samefigure 3 in the left frame.For ontology representation we choose RDF(S), mainlybecause it allows easy extension to OWL6 (Lite).Location sub-ontologyBecause the Geographic features (Locations) form alarge part of the entities of general importance, we de-5 Lucene, http://jakarta.apache.org/lucene/, high perfor-mance full text search engine6Ontology Web Language (OWL),http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-semantics/veloped a Location sub-ontology as part of the KIM on-tology.
The goal was to include the most important andfrequently used types of Locations (which are specializa-tions of Entity), including relations between them (suchas hasCapital, subRegionOf (more specific than part-of)),relations between Locations and other Entities (Organiza-tion locatedIn Location) and various attributes.The Location entity denotes an area in 3D space7,which includes geographic entities with physical bound-aries, such as geographical areas and landmasses, bodiesof water, geological formations and also politicallydefined areas (e.g.
?U.S.
Administered areas?
).The classification hierarchy (consisting of 97 classes)is based on the ADL Feature Type Thesaurus version070203.
The differences target simplicity; a number ofdistinctions and unnecessary levels of abstraction wereremoved where irrelevant to general (non-geographic)context, as we wanted the ontology to be easy to un-derstand for an average user.
Examples of sub-classesomitted: Territorial waters, Tribal areas, AdministrativeAreas (its sub-types are put directly under Location).The Location ontology provides the following addi-tional information:?
the exact type of a feature, for example to be ableto recognize a geographic feature as CountryCapitalinstead of just Location.?
relations between geographic feature and other en-tities (e.g.
?Diego Garcia?
is a MilitaryBase, lo-cated somewhere in the Indian Ocean and it is sub-RegionOf USA).?
the different names of a location (?Peking?
and?Beijing?
are two aliases for one location).?
the transitive subRegionOf relation allows one tosearch for Entities located in a continent (e.g.
?Mor-gan Stanley?
- locatedIn - ?New York?
- subRe-gionOf - ?NY?
- subRegionOf - ?USA?
- subRe-gionOf - ?North America?)?
?trusted?
vs ?recognized?
sources in generatedByproperty of a Location is an extra hint in disam-biguation tasks.
The class hierarchy is shown in fig-ure 5.7Actually, the instances of Location are Entities with spa-tial identity criteria (Guarino and Welty, 2000).
For instancea building can be considered as Property, Location or CulturalArtifact, but the focus in the ontology is placed on the Locationaspect.Figure 3: KIM usage - highlight and explore.
The upper part of KIM ontology (KIMO) is shown in the left frame.3.2 The knowledge baseGeographic information usually introduces a high levelof ambiguity between named entities, for the followingthree reasons:?
there could be several Locations with the same name(this includes sharing common alias);?
a name of a Location could match a common En-glish word (e.g.
?Has?, ?The?);?
other named entities (Company, Person, even Dateor Numeric data) could share a common aliaswith a Location (examples: ?Paris Corporation?,?O?Brian?
county, ?10?
district, ?Departamento deNueve de Julio?
with alias ?9 de Julio?
).In order to allow easy bootstrapping of applicationsbased on KIM and to eliminate the need for them towrite a Geo-gazetteer, the KIM knowledge base pro-vides exhaustive coverage of entities of general impor-tance.
By limiting the Locations to only ?important?ones, we also keep the system as generic, domain- andtask-independent as possible.
The term ?importance?
ofa location is hard to define, and part of the problem is thatit is dependent on the domain where the IE tasks are fo-cused.
Yet it is common sense that such locations includecontinents, countries, big cities, some rivers, mountains,etc.
In addition to the above predefined locations, KIM:?
learns from the texts it analyses;?
has a comprehensive set of rules and patterns help-ing it to recognize unknown entities;?
has a Hidden Markov Model learner, capable of cor-recting symbolic patterns.As a test domain, KIM uses political and economic newsarticles from leading newswires8.4 Populating the location knowledge baseAs a main source of geographic knowledge we usedNIMA?s GEOnet Names Server (GNS) data.
GNSdatabase is the official repository of foreign place-namedecisions approved by the U.S. Board on GeographicNames (US BGN) and contains approximately 3.9 mil-lion features with 5.37 million names.
Approximately20,000 of the database?s features are updated monthly.The data is available for download in standard formattedtext files, which contain: unique feature index (UFI), sev-eral names per Location (the official name, short name,sometimes different transcriptions of the name), geo-graphic coordinates (one point; no bounding rectangle).Geographic coverage of the data is worldwide, exclud-ing United States and Antarctica.
For U.S. geographic8See News Collector, http://news.ontotext.comFigure 4: RDF representation of a Location.data we used partially USGS/GNIS data9, which fol-lows similar format as GNS data.
For country names wefollowed FIPS10, which was natural choice since GNSdata is structured that way.
A list of big cities was ob-tained from UN Statistics site, which covers city data(http://unstats.un.org/unsd/citydata/).We then created a mapping between our location classesand GNS feature designators.
Some of the features werecompletely ignored (e.g.
?abandoned populated places?,?drainage ditch?
), other were combined into one (e.g.
?ADM2?, ?ADMD?
into County).There is some inconsistency in the way the data is enteredfor different countries, mostly because of improper usageof designators (using different designators for similar ge-ographic features and vice versa).
This made creation ofthe mapping a bit harder, as we needed to include moredesignators mapped to one class.
The per-country fileswere almost consistently entered (with some exceptions,for example in UK, ?England?, ?Scotland?, ?NorthernIreland?
and ?Wales?
are entered as AREA, which hintsthe same importance as the other 40 areas in UK).
Weexpect that a per-country mapping instead of a global onewill lead to better performance results, yet we haven?t ex-perimented with this as it will require manual tuning forabout 250 countries.The different names of the geographic features aremapped to aliases of the Location entities, with a mainalias pointing to the official name.
The RDF represen-tation of a Location is shown in figure 4.
Because thesenames sometimes match common English words and Per-son names a list of stop words is created and the aliasesare filtered.The import procedure uses the mapping described9US Geological Survey (UGCS); Geographic Names Infor-mation System (GNIS)10Federal Information Processing Standards,http://www.itl.nist.gov/fipspubs/above but can also be restricted by list of countries andclasses to be imported.
Currently imported classes are:Continent, GlobalRegion, Country, Province, County,CountryCapital, LocalCapital, City, Ocean, Sea, Gulf,OilField, Monument, Bridge, Plateau, Mountain, Moun-tainRange, Plain.
These classes were selected as ?impor-tant?, based on common sense and statistical informationderived from GNS data.The GNS data has three main problems when it comesto extracting only geographical entities of global impor-tance and the relations between them:?
There is no way to tell the importance of a location(e.g.
is Chirpan a big city or a small town);?
The only part-of relations available are between alocation and its country, but not province or county;?
Some locations are not country-specific (e. g.oceans, seas, mountains) but are listed as separatelocations with different identifiers in different per-country lists.We addressed the first problem by limiting the types of lo-cations to a small subset of important ones (as explainedabove).
The importance of cities was determined by us-ing a list of all big cities (with population over 100,000).We attempted to solve the second problem by using an al-gorithm to calculate the distance between a location andall provinces/counties in this country, and then to createa part-of relation with the nearest one.
However, our ex-periments showed that the accuracy of the results was notsatisfactory.
This is mostly due to the fact that in GNSdata only the location footprint is given, but not the ex-tent.
Comparing the geographic coordinates of the loca-tions with a common alias and type and then combiningthe matching ones into a single entity in the knowledgebase solved the third problem.Currently the KB contains about 50,000 Locationsgrouped into 6 Continents, 27 GlobalRegions (such as?Caribbean?
or ?Eastern Europe?
), 282 Countries, allcountry capitals and 4,700 Cities (including all the citieswith population over 100,000).
Each location has sev-eral aliases (usually including English, French and some-times the local transcription of the location), geographiccoordinates, the designator (DSG) and Unique FeatureIndex (UFI), according to GNS.
The figures for entitiesof global importance in KIM KB are shown in table 1.5 Experiments with direct use for IEThe locations KB is used for Information Extraction (IE)as part of the KIM system, combining symbolic andstochastic approaches, based on the ANNIE IE compo-nents from GATE.
As a baseline, using a gazetteer mod-ule, the aliases of the entities (including all locations) areEntities 77,561Aliases 110,308Locations 49,348Cities 4,720Companies 7,906Public companies 5,150Key people 5,500Organizations 8,365Table 1: Instances per subclass of Entity.being looked up in the text.
Further, unknown or notprecisely matching entities are recognized with pattern-based grammars:?
using location pre/post keys to identify locations,e.g.
?The River Thames??
using location pre/post keys + Location, e.g.
?northEgypt?, ?south Wales??
context-based recognition, such as: ?in?
+ Token-with-first-uppercase Number of disambiguationproblems (mostly in the case of Location names oc-curring in the composite name of other Entities) arealso detected and resolved:?
ambiguity between Person and Organization, e.g.?U.S.
Navy?
(this would normally be recognized asa Person name from the pattern ?two initials + Fam-ily name?, but in this case the initials match a loca-tion alias)?
occurrence of locations in person names, e.g.
?JackLondon?
(disambiguated because in the KB there isLexicalResource ?Jack?
is a first name of Person)?
occurrence of locations in Organization names, e.g.
?Scotland Yard?
(disambiguated because in the KBthere is such Organization)Finally, some of the recognized Entities (includingLocations), which are not marked as noun by the part ofspeech tagger are discarded.Some of the newly recognized Locations appear fre-quently in the analyzed texts.
Those, which could befound in the GNS data are potential candidates to be en-tered in the knowledge base, because there is an extraevidence for their importance.
This is a way to extend theknowledge base and make it contain all the ?important?Locations in the sense of frequently used in the one ormore application domain(s).The performance of the KIM system was measured ona news corpus using GATE?s evaluation tools.
The sys-tem was also compared to an high-precision named entityrecognition system, which uses small flat gazetteer lists.Entity NumberLocation 792Organisation 773Person 764Date 603Percent 54Money 94Table 2: Distribution of entities in the corpus5.1 Evaluation CorpusThe corpus was collected from 3 online English news-papers: the Independent, the Guardian and the FinancialTimes.
In total it contains 101 documents with 56,221words.
The corpus was manually annotated with entities.Table 2 shows the number of entities of each type in thecorpus.5.2 Corpus Benchmark ToolThe Corpus Benchmark Tool(CBT) is one of the compo-nents in GATE which enables automatic evaluation of anapplication in terms of Precision, Recall and F-measure,against a set of ground truths.
Furthermore, it also en-ables two versions of a system to be compared againsteach other (e.g.
for regression testing) or two differentsystems to be compared.
Each system is evaluated bycomparing the annotations produced with a set of key an-notations (produced manually) and producing a score ?two systems can therefore be compared with each otherand indications are given as to where they differ fromeach other.5.3 MUSEMUSE is an information extraction system developedwithin GATE which aims to perform named entity recog-nition on different types of text (Maynard et al 2002).MUSE recognises the standard MUC entity types of Per-son, Location, Organisation, Date, Time, Percent, andsome additional types such as Addresses and Identifiers.The system is based on ANNIE, the default IE systemwithin GATE, but has been extended to deal with a vari-ety of text sources and genres, and incorporates a mecha-nism for automatically selecting the most appropriate setof resources depending on the text type.MUSE uses flat-list gazetteers which primarily containcontextual clues that help with the identification of namedentities, e.g., company designators (such as Ltd, GmbH),job titles, person titles (such as Mr, Mrs), common firstnames, typical organisation types (e.g., Ministry, Univer-sity).
In addition, MUSE has lists enumerating concretetypes of locations which have about 27 500 entries, in-cluding 25,000 UK ones.
Further breakdown is given inTable 3:global regions (including continents) 71aliases of countries 450provinces 1215mountains 5water regions (oceans, lakes, etc) 15cities world wide 1900UK regions (such as East Sussex, Essex) 140cities in UK 23792UK rivers 3Table 3: MUSE Location gazetteer entriesAs can be seen from the location entries in the MUSEgazetteers, the system is specifically tailored to recogniseUK locations with high recall and precision, whereas theKIM locations KB is not skewed towards any particularcountry.We ran the MUSE system over our test corpus to seehow KIM matched up to it.5.4 ResultsMUSE vs KIM performance comparison is given in ta-ble 4.
When interpreting these results one also must bearin mind that the high-performance IE system is only tag-ging geographical entities as locations, whereas the GNS-based system is actually disambiguating them with re-spect to their specific type (e.g., City, Province, Country).Investigation of the reasons behind the lower recall showsthat:?
the KB is too coarse-grained, i.e., there are no?smaller?
locations, such as small towns/counties inUK, we do not import military bases in KB fromGNS data (?Diego Garcia?
), etc.?
The application was not specifically tuned for thecorpus/news texts, e.g.
we do not use the fact, thatthe texts often clarify the locations when they arefirst mentioned (e.g., Aberdeen, UK).?
there are not any historical Locations, such as?Soviet Union?.It is expected that the first two problems will be fixedwith enhancement of the KB with regard to domaintargeting of a KIM-based application.
To check thisassumption we did another experiment.
Because thecorpus contains a lot of UK-related information (thearticles are from three English newspapers) and MUSEis specifically tailored to UK locations, we needed extraUK-specific information in the KB.
As we mentionedearlier the import procedure is flexible to the extend thatallowed to add all the locations from UK GNS data.
Theperformance of this enhanced KB is shown in table 5.The recall is higher than in MUSE (increased to 95% vs93%).The precision is 10% behind MUSE (85% vs 95%).An obvious reason is that we have more entities in KB,and we do not control the aliases (except for stop wordslist), while all the locations in MUSE gazetteer listsare manually entered and therefore produce very littleambiguity.6 DiscussionWe produced a KB of locations with world wide cover-age using GNS data.
The size of about 50,000 Location ismore than most other IE systems have.
It is not big (com-pared to 4M locations in ADL Gazetteer), but providesgood coverage of Locations (91%).
Because the KB wasnot tuned for the test corpus specifics we could expectsimilar coverage for other corpora.Our flexible import procedure allows for domain-targeted versions of the KB (by means of importing moreLocation types) to be produced, which is expected to havegood-enough coverage on locations.The impact of the location KB on the IE performanceis still under evaluation and improvement.
We are work-ing on improvements in two directions: i) decreasing theamount of GNS-data entered in KB - for both locationsand their aliases; ii) changing the way in which the IEsystem uses the KB to improve precision.
On the latter,we are currently experimenting with applying the regularnamed entity recognition grammars first and then usingthe location KB to lookup only the unclassified entities,instead of using it as a gazetteer prior to named entityrecognition as we do now.7 Bootstrapping IE for new languagesfrom the KBWe were able to make use of the KB as part of the TIDESSurprise Language Exercise, a collaborative effort be-tween a number of sites to develop resources and toolsfor various language engineering tasks on an unknownlanguage.
A dry run of this program took place in March2003, whereby participants were given a week from thetime the language was announced, to collect tools and re-sources for processing that language.
The language cho-sen was Cebuano, spoken by 24% of the population inthe Phillipines.
The University of Sheffield developed aNamed Entity recognition system for Cebuano, to whichwe contributed a list of locations from the Philippines.This was particularly useful as this kind of informationwas not readibly available from the Internet, and time wasof the essence.
The NE system (developed within a week)achieved scores for the recognition of locations at 73%System Correct Partially Correct Missing Spurious Precision Recall F-MeasureMUSE 744 9 54 37 0.947 0.928 0.937KIM 726 24 61 113 0.855 0.910 0.881Table 4: MUSE vs KIM performance comparisonSystem Correct Partially Correct Missing Spurious Precision Recall F-MeasureMUSE 744 9 54 37 0.947 0.928 0.937KIM-UK 759 28 27 167 0.810 0.950 0.874Table 5: MUSE vs KB with all UK locationsPrecision, 78% Recall and 76% F-measure.
We predictthat this kind of information will be very useful for thefull Surprise Language Program in June, where partici-pants will have more time (a month) to create resourceson another surprise language ?
not only for InformationExtraction but also for tasks such as Cross-Language In-formation Retrieval and Machine Translation.8 Conclusion and future workThis paper presented work on the creation of a locationsknowledge base and its use for information extraction.In order to allow easy bootstrapping of IE to differentlanguages and applications, we are building a knowledgebase (KB) with entities of general importance, includinggeographic locations.
The aim is to include the most im-portant and frequently used types of Locations.
An evalu-ation and comparison to high performance IE applicationwas given.The system is still under development and future im-provements are envisaged, mainly related to implement-ing better disambiguation techniques (e.g., like those de-scribed in (Smith and Crane, 2001)) and experimentingwith new ways of using the KB from the IE application.AcknowledgementsWork on GATE has been supported by the Engineeringand Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) un-der grants GR/K25267 and GR/M31699, and by severalsmaller grants.
The last author is currently supported bythe EPSRC-funded AKT project (http://www.aktors.org)grant GR/N15764/01.ReferencesAtanas Kiryakov, Kiril Simov, Damyan Ognyanov.
2002.Ontology Middleware and Reasoning In the ?Towardsthe Semantic Web: Ontology-Driven Knowledge Man-agement?, editors John Davies, Dieter Fensel, Frankvan Harmelen.
John Wiley & Sons, Europe, 2002.Beth Sundheim, editor.
Proceedings of the SeventhMessage Understanding Conference (MUC-7).
ARPA,Morgan Kaufmann, 1998.David A. Smith and Gregory Crane 2001.
Disambiguat-ing Geographic Names in a Historical Digital Library.In Proceedings of ECDL, pages 127-136, Darmstadt,4-9 September 2001.Diana Maynard, Valentin Tablan, Hamish Cunningham,Cristian Ursu, Horacio Saggion, Kalina Bontcheva,Yorick Wilks 2002.
Architectural Elements of Lan-guage Engineering Robustness.
In Journal of Natu-ral Language Engineering ?
Special Issue on RobustMethods in Analysis of Natural Language Data, 8 (1)pp 257-274Diana Maynard and Hamish Cunningham.
2003.
Multi-lingual Adaptations of a Reusable Information Extrac-tion Tool.
In Proceedings of EACL 2003, Budapest,Hungary, 2003.Hamish Cunningham, Diana Maynard, Kalina Bontchevaand Valentin Tablan.
2002.
GATE: A Framework andGraphical Development Environment for Robust NLPTools and Applications.
In Proceedings of the 40thAnniversary Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, 2002.Linda L. Hill.
2000.
Core elements of digital gazetteers:placenames, categories, and footprints.
In J. Borbinha& T. Baker (Eds.
), Research and Advanced Tech-nology for Digital Libraries : Proceedings of the4th European Conference, ECDL 2000 Lisbon, Por-tugal, September 18-20, 2000 (pp.
280-290).
Berlin:Springer.Nicola Guarino and Christopher Welty.
2000.
Towardsa methodology for ontology-based model engineering.In Proceedings of ECOOP-2000 Workshop on ModelEngineering.
Cannes, France.Apendix A. Ontology screenshotsFigure 5: Location sub-ontology.Figure 6: Upper level of KIM ontology.
