Population Testing: Extracting Semantic InformationOn Near-Synonymy From Native SpeakersUlla VanhataloDepartment of Finno-Ugrian Studies,University of HelsinkiDepartment of Scandinavian Studies,University of Washingtonulla.vanhatalo@helsinki.fiHilary ChanDepartment of Near EasternLanguages & Civilizations,University of Washingtonhilaryc@u.washington.edusomeguy@hilarychan.comAbstractMeasuring differences between near-synonyms constitutes a major challenge in thedevelopment of electronic dictionaries andnatural language processing systems.
This pa-per presents a pilot study on how PopulationTest Method (PTM) may be used as an effec-tive, empirical tool to define near-synonymsin a quantifiable manner.
Use of PTM pre-sumes that all knowledge about lexical mean-ing in a language resides collectively in themind(s) of its native speakers, and that this in-tersubjective understanding may be extractedvia targeted surveys that encourage creative,thinking responses.
In this paper we show (1)examples of such tests performed on a groupof high school students in Finland, (2) result-ing data from the tests that is surprisinglyquantifiable, and (3) a web-based visualiza-tion program we are developing to analyzeand present the collected data.1 IntroductionThe problem of near-synonym discrimination presents aformidable challenge to computer-based natural lan-guage processing systems (Edmonds 1999; Edmondsand Hirst, 2002), as well as to humans who are attempt-ing to acquire near-native competency in a foreign lan-guage.
In both cases, a comprehensive lexical databasespecifically designed for near-synonymy in the targetlanguage is a pre-requisite for the further developmentof practical applications in their respective domains.Some promising approaches have appeared in recentliterature.
These include corpus based procedures (Ink-pen and Hirst 2001, 2002),  and applied componentialanalysis, in particular continuing work on cross-lingualsemantic primitives by Wierzbicka and her colleagues(Wierzbicka 1996, 1999).Corpus-based approaches are, however, constrainedby the kind and scope of pre-existing corpora and toolsthat are currently available; while componential analysisnecessarily depends heavily on the subjective judgmentof its investigators.
Under such conditions, it may provedifficult to achieve complete and evenly distributedlexical coverage that truly reflects the diversity of thelanguage community.In this paper we propose another approach that wehope would complement these existing methods.
In thisapproach, we go directly and repeatedly, in an iterativeprocess, to the native speakers of the speech communityto acquire and to verify the semantic information thuscollected.We also briefly describe a visualization tool (a Javaapplet) that we are currently developing to aid us inanalyzing the collected data, and in further refining thesemantic model.2  Extracting Lexical Semantic Data withthe Population Test Method (PTM)2.1 General BackgroundPopulation Test Method (PTM) is based on the assump-tion that the semantics of human language is intersub-jective in nature.
The term intersubjectivity has longbeen associated with theories and practice in philoso-phy, cognitive science, and experimental and develop-mental psychology derived from, or influenced byphenomenology, a branch of philosophical thinking pio-neered by the German philosopher Edmund Husserl inearly 20th Century.
It is also known, in the field ofsemiotics, as a central concern in the works of WalkerPercy (Percy 1976).
In this paper, however, we gener-ally use this term in a more restricted sense, namely, torefer to the guiding principles for a specific empiricalmethod, due to Raukko, for acquiring semantic informa-tion from non-expert informants in a speech community(Raukko 1999).Another background framework of PTM is inspiredby an idea from Wierzbicka?s Natural Semantic Meta-language (NSM) ?
that all complex meanings are de-composable into constituent parts that can be readilyexpressed in natural language.Unlike NSM, however, PTM has a more practicalgoal and a more narrow scope, namely, that of extract-ing information to help differentiate a relatively smallgroup of closely related words.
Thus, instead of search-ing for and verifying whether a semantic feature is aproper universal primitive, we take a more ad-hoc ap-proach, i.e.
if it is evident from empirical data that anew feature would help distinguish one group of wordsfrom another, then we will adopt it at the next iterationof our investigation as one of the dimensions to test thepopulation with, and deal with the theoretical issueslater.2.2 Practical ConsiderationsSince the very nature of PTM is to examine the produc-tive use of actual everyday words in their natural set-tings, the tests need to be specifically tailored both forthe words of interest, and for the study population.
Also,it should be noted that PTM is by design intended as are-iterative process, where each test round generateshypothesis to be tested in the following round.2.2.1 Tailoring the Tests for Features Specificto the Words under InvestigationWhile some semantic dimensions are common to allvocabulary, many words or word groups also have theirown unique semantic characteristics that are not appar-ent at first, even to a trained semanticist.
These subtlenuances often do not come out automatically in con-scious explanations, but can nevertheless be drawn outvery prominently with the right kind of testing (seeVanhatalo 2002a, 2002b).For instance, while most native English speakerswould instinctively choose either shout or yell in his orher speech, such speakers are often at a loss at firstwhen asked to explain why one choice is made over theother.To draw out such hidden linguistic intuition, weneed to think of some non-rigid way of testing that en-courages creative brainstorming.
In PTM this oftencomes in the form of a natural-sounding, open-endedtask given in a non-pressured setting, such as a free-form question framed in a plausible context, e.g.
?You?ve just met an exchange student from Japan.
Shewould like to know what the difference is between shoutand yell.
How would you explain the difference to her?
?Finally, a practical concern is that the number ofsemantic features for words in any given word groupcan be quite large.
However, since we are only inter-ested in differentiation among these closely relatedwords, we can choose only features that contribute tosuch differentiation.
Furthermore, because of the re-iterative nature of PTM, the feature set for each groupof words can grow or shrink as we go.2.2.2 Testing in Settings that are Realistic forthe InformantsIn order to generate data that are as authentic as possi-ble, our test settings are tailored so that they are naturalfor each informant group.
For instance, since it wouldappear more natural for high school students to explainthe difference between words to their friends, or to placethemselves in situations that are plausible for an averageteenager, our tests for them are designed accordingly.Below in Fig.
1 is an example of a multiple choicetask where the various near-synonyms for the Finnishversion of the verb ?to nag?
is used in a realisticallyplausible setting (for the Finnish high school studentswho were our informants):HOW ANGRY WAS YOUR MOTHER?1 -- a little angry;  5 -- very angry.1 2 3 4 5Yesterday I came home late andMom j?k?tti.
__ __ __ __ __Yesterday I came home late andMom valitti.__ __ __ __ __Yesterday I came home late andMom marisi.__ __ __ __ __.... ... ... ... ...
...Fig.
1 A Multiple Choice Question2.3 Details of one Pilot Study: Proceduresand ResultsWe have conducted several pilot studies with over 450subjects in Finland and Estonia to date.
One such studywas carried out with 154 high school students inFinland.
The tests were delivered on paper.
The testedvocabulary comprised of 18 speech act verbs that de-scribe complaining (e.g.
English ?to nag?
or ?to carp?
)in Finnish (see Appendix A for the list with Englishglosses.)
According to existing dictionaries, these wordsare considered near-synonyms.
The tasks constitutingthe testing were either production tasks or multiplechoice tasks.In most production tasks (i.e.
open-ended tests), theinformants were asked to compare two or more near-synonyms, often by explaining them to their non-nativepeers.
In the analysis phase, features in their descrip-tions were extracted and collected into matrices, whichwere then used to generate frequency charts for compi-lation of further test series.
Semi-quantitative compari-sons were also performed with the results from multiplechoice tasks.
The most surprising observations were theabundance of discriminating features between words,and the high frequency of some answers (e.g.
reasonsfor a certain speech act).In multiple choice tasks (i.e.
difference evaluationtests), the informants were requested (1) to choose thebest word for the given context, (2) to choose the bestcontext for the given word, or (3) to rate/rank the wordin a given semantic dimension.
All these results wereanalyzed statistically.
Tasks requiring word ranking orrating yielded direct numerical values with measures ofvariance.An example of numerical rating of a semantic di-mension is given in Figure 2, where the informants wereasked to rate volume of the speech act on a scale of 1 to5.
It appears that the assumed near-synonyms are clearlydistinguishable in this semantic dimension, and the cal-culated confidence intervals (short vertical bars) demon-strate the high consensus among the informants.Fig.
2 Volume of the Speech ActAn example of ranking between near-synonyms isgiven in Figure 3, which shows the result of a task toselect the gender (of the agent) in the speech act.
Theresult reveals that some verbs are clearly associated withfemale or male gender, while others are not as clearlygender-associated.Fig.
3 Gender (of Agent) in the Speech Act3 Visualizing Near-Synonymy in a Quasi3-D Space3.1 The Need for an Intuitive Way to Viewand Review Semantic InformationWhile we are in general satisfied with the results fromthe first round of our pilot study, we have come to real-ize that, in order to pass the results back to the infor-mants for the next iteration of our test process, we needto present our findings in a more intuitive format.Furthermore, as researchers engaging in the designof modern electronic dictionaries and thesauri for hu-man users, we are interested in creating a user friendlyinterface for a thesaurus like application.
Indeed, wehave in mind that our informants would also be the us-ers of such a thesaurus/dictionary, and thus have an in-centive to make contribution to its continuing updateand improvement.
The general configuration of such asetup is illustrated in Fig.
4 below and described inmore detail in a forthcoming paper (Vanhatalo 2003).Fig.
4 A New Kind of Dictionary/ThesaurusThe convergence of these interests and requirementsresulted in the prototype visualization tool, currentlyimplemented as a Java applet, described in the follow-ing sections.Fig.
5 Single-Axis Layout Based on genderPopulationTests AnalysisDictionary/ThesaurusThe screen-shot of  the visualization tool in Fig.
5above contains essentially the same information as inthe bar chart of Fig.
3, except here the words themselvesare the main objects being displayed.
The words aredistributed along a diagonal axis based on gender (of theagent), with lower left being more ?male?-like, and up-per right being more ?female?-like.The view shown in Fig.
6 is similar, but in this casewe use x-axis for gender and the y-axis for volume.
Inother words, Fig.
6 contains the same information asthose in Fig.
2 and Fig.
3 combined.Actually, there is more.
In both Fig.
5 and Fig 6there is a third (z-) dimension shown via type size andcolor.
This dimension is currently used to represent thesemantic distance of each word from the focus, i.e.
thecurrently selected word of interest highlighted in a box.The basic idea is that the word of interest would beclosest to the viewer, and thus largest in type and dark-est in color; while the other words (its near-synonyms)will be nearer or further from the viewer depending onhow close they are semantically to this focus word.
Inother words, we hypothesize that the viewer would havean intuitive feel for this notion of ?semantic distance?,and that he or she would instinctively translate this men-tal distance into a perceived visual distance, and viceversa.Fig.
6 Dual-Axis Layout (gender x volume)For example, in both Fig.
5 and Fig.
6 above, wherethe semantic distance is calculated as a weighted aver-age of six semantic dimensions, one could see at aglance which word(s) are the closest near-synonyms tothe selected focus word.
Thus, in Fig.
5 for vaikeroida itis voivotella; while in Fig.
6 for nurista, they are pur-nata and mukista.3.2 Towards a Web-Based, Visually EnrichedExtension to PTMWe envision this Web-based, visual extension to PTMto work mostly the same as the paper-and-pencil ver-sion, except that (1) it would be conducted over theInternet; and (2) some, though not all, of the tests wouldbe more visually oriented.More specifically, the visual tests would still consistof both multiple-choice tasks and open-ended tasks asbefore.For an open-ended task, one option is to present oneof these displays, say Fig.
5 or Fig.
6 above, and ask theinformants if the picture makes sense, and if not, to ex-plain in their own words what in the picture appears oddto them, and why.As to multiple-choice tasks, consider the four viewsin Fig.
7a - 7d below:Fig.
7a   Fig.
7bFig.
7c   Fig.
7dThese four views are essentially variations on thesame theme, i.e.
they have the same x- and y-axis layoutand the same focus word.
The only difference amongthem is in the weight assignment for calculating seman-tic distance from the focus word j?k?tt??.
The viewerwill be asked to rank the four displays in terms of their?naturalness?.Another way to do this will allow the weights to beassigned by the viewer directly, e.g.
via a set of sliderssimilar to those for photo manipulation programs.
Whilethis would require more work for the informant, it couldactually be more fun and thus perhaps would have agreater potential as a successful method for an Internetbased approach.4 DiscussionWe are primarily researcher and practitioners in thefield of foreign language studies, and our interests arefocused on the design and implementation of electronicdictionaries and thesauri for human users who are study-ing a second language.
Nevertheless, we have benefitedgreatly from exposure to research done in computationallinguistics, and look forward to the exchange of ideasthat we hope would benefit both of our fields.In this paper we presented an approach towardssolving the problem of building a large scale lexicaldatabase with specific emphasis on near-synonymy.
Aswe are still at a very early stage of our investigation,many unanswered questions remain.First of all, while we have confidence that our ?in-formant-friendly?
intersubjective approach can extractgood semantic information, we are less sure that all theinformation thus collected can always be easily con-verted into some numeric format, or be intuitively rep-resentable in some visualized form.Another concern has to do with the assumption thatthe informant would intuitively perceive visual similar-ity as semantic similarity.
As this has not yet beentested, we simply do not know if it will work as hoped.We also wonder if purely visual design factor (e.g.
colorclashes, compositional imbalance) could inadvertentlyskew an informant?s judgment on a particular display?ssemantic ?naturalness?.Lastly, doing survey of any sort on the Internet in-volves a whole set of issues that we are aware of, buthave not yet seriously investigated.Despite these uncertainties, we are in general veryoptimistic about the direction we are heading.
We envi-sion the next phase of our research to involve scaling upthe testing, to include both more word groups and manymore (in the thousands, ideally) informants, possibly viathe Internet but more probably a large  university?s in-ternal network, in our first venture into the Web-basedsurvey world.We would also like to do some more experimentswith the visualization tool, e.g.
to try out differentschemes for calculating semantic distances, to use datafrom other databases (and in other languages, e.g.
Eng-lish), or  to create a more appealing, 3-D game like userinterface.
Perhaps even a ?space war?
type game fornear-synonymy.
Maybe.Appendix A.
?Nag?
Verbs in Finnishjupista mutter, mumble; grumblejurnutta (colloq.)
annoy, vexj?k?tt??
(colloq.)
[yakety-] yak; nagmarista whine, whimper, fret, grumblemarmattaa grumblemotkottaa carp, nagmukista grumble, grousenalkuttaa nag, carpnapista grumble, gripe, murmurnurista grumblepurnatta grouse, grumbleruikuttaa whine, whimper, complain,(colloq.)
moan, wail, (colloq.
)pesterurputtaa -- N/A --*vaikeroida moan, groan, wail, lament, be-moanvalittaa groan, moan, wail, lament, com-plainvoihkia groan, moanvoivotella moan, whine, bewail(edited from Finnish-English General Dictionary 1984)* The word urputtaa is not yet found in current Fin-nish-English dictionaries, though it has been col-lected into the more recent monolingual Finnishdictionaries.ReferencesEdmonds, Philip: Semantic Representation of Near-Synonyms for Automatic Lexical Choice.
PhD Thesis,University of Toronto (1999)Edmonds, Philip and Hirst, Graeme.
?Near-synonymyand lexical choice.?
Computational Linguistics,28(2), June 2002, 105--144.Finnish-English General Dictionary.
Uusi suomi-englanti suursanakirja (1984).
Raija Hurme, Riitta-Leena Malin, Olli Syv?oja.
WSOY.
Helsinki.Inkpen, Diana Zaiu and Hirst, Graeme.
?Acquiring col-locations for lexical choice between near-synonyms.
?In SIGLEX Workshop on Unsupervised Lexical Ac-quisition, 40th meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Philadelphia, June 2002.Inkpen, Diana Zaiu and Hirst, Graeme.
?Building alexical knowledge-base of near-synonym differ-ences.?
In Proceedings of the Workshop on WordNetand Other Lexical Resources, Second meeting of theNorth American Chapter of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, Pittsburgh, June 2001.Percy, Walker: The Message in the Bottle, Farrar,Strauss and Giroux, New York, 1976Raukko, Jarno 1999: ?An ?intersubjective?
Method forcognitive-semantic Research on Polysemy: The caseof GET?.
?
In Masako K. Hiraga, Chris Sinha, andSherman Wilcox (ed.
), Cultural, Psychological andTypological Issues in Cognitive Linguistics.
Selectedpapers of the bi-annual ICLA meeting in Albuquer-que, July 1995 pp.
87?105.
John Benjamins.
Amster-dam/Philadelphia.
[Current Issues in LinguisticTheory, 152.
]Vanhatalo, Ulla 2002a: ?Population Tests in Lexicogra-phy?.
In Geoffrey Stewart Morrison & Les Zsoldos(ed.
), Proceedings of the Northwest Linguistics Con-ference 2002. pp.
83-94.
Available online athttp://edocs.lib.sfu.ca/projects/NWLC2002/NWLC2002_Proceedings_Vanhatalo.pdfVanhatalo, Ulla 2002b: ?Naiset motkottaa aiheesta janalkuttaa syytt??
: Kyselytestit verbien semanttistensis?lt?jen arvioinnissa.
[Using Questionnaires to As-sess Semantic Content of Verbs].
In Viritt?j?
106: 3.pp.
330-353.Vanhatalo, Ulla 2003: ?Finnish Electronic Dictionaries:Present and Future Challenges in Incorporating Se-mantic and Pragmatic Information?.
In Journal ofFinnish Studies.
Forthcoming.Wierzbicka, Anna 1996: Semantics: Primes and Uni-versals.
Oxford University Press.Wierzbicka, Anna 1999: Emotions Across Languagesand Cultures: Diversity and Universals.
CambridgeUniversity Press.
