Understanding Complex Visually Referring UtterancesPeter GorniakCognitive Machines GroupMIT Media Laboratorypgorniak@media.mit.eduDeb RoyCognitive Machines GroupMIT Media Laboratorydkroy@media.mit.eduAbstractWe propose a computational model ofvisually-grounded spatial language under-standing, based on a study of how peopleverbally describe objects in visual scenes.We describe our implementation of wordlevel visually-grounded semantics and theirembedding in a compositional parsing frame-work.
The implemented system selects thecorrect referents in response to a broad rangeof referring expressions for a large percentageof test cases.
In an analysis of the system?ssuccesses and failures we reveal how visualcontext influences the semantics of utterancesand propose future extensions to the modelthat take such context into account.1 IntroductionWe present a study of how people describe objects in vi-sual scenes of the kind shown in Figure 1.
Based onthis study, we propose a computational model of visually-grounded language understanding.
A typical referring ex-pression for Figure 1 might be, ?the far back purple conethat?s behind a row of green ones?.
In such tasks, speak-ers construct expressions to guide listeners?
attention tointended objects.
Such referring expressions succeed incommunication because speakers and listeners find sim-ilar features of the visual scene to be salient, and sharean understanding of how language is grounded in termsof these features.
This work is a step towards our longerterm goals to develop a conversational robot (Roy et al,forthcoming 2003) that can fluidly connect language toperception and action.To study the characteristics of descriptive spatial lan-guage, we collected several hundred referring expres-sions based on scenes similar to Figure 1.
We analysedthe descriptions by cataloguing the visual features thatthey referred to within a scene, and the range of linguisticdevices (words or grammatical patterns) that they used torefer to those features.
The combination of a visual fea-ture and corresponding linguistic device is referred to asa descriptive strategy.Figure 1: A sample scene used to elicit visually-groundedreferring expressions (if this figure has been reproducedin black and white, the light cones are green in colour, thedark cones are purple)We propose a set of computational mechanisms thatcorrespond to the most commonly used descriptive strate-gies from our study.
The resulting model has been imple-mented as a set of visual feature extraction algorithms,a lexicon that is grounded in terms of these visual fea-tures, a robust parser to capture the syntax of spoken ut-terances, and a compositional engine driven by the parserthat combines visual groundings of lexical units.
We usethe term grounded semantic composition to highlight thatboth the semantics of individual words and the word com-position process itself are visually-grounded.
We proposeprocesses that combine the visual models of words, gov-erned by rules of syntax.
In designing our system, wemade several simplifying assumptions.
We assumed thatword meanings are independent of the visual scene, andthat semantic composition is a purely incremental pro-cess.
As we will show, neither of these assumptions holdsin all of our data, but our system still understands mostutterances correctly.To evaluate the system, we collected a set of spokenutterances from three speakers.
The model was able tocorrectly understand the visual referents of 59% of theexpressions (chance performance was 1/30?30i=1 1/i =13%).
The system was able to resolve a range of linguis-tic phenomena that made use of relatively complex com-positions of spatial semantics.
We provide an analysis ofthe sources of failure in this evaluation, based on whichwe propose a number of improvements that are requiredto achieve human level performance.An extended report on this work can be found in (Gor-niak and Roy, 2003).1.1 Related WorkWinograd?s SHRDLU is a well known system that couldunderstand and generate natural language referring to ob-jects and actions in a simple blocks world (Winograd,1970).
Like our system it performs semantic interpreta-tion during parsing by attaching short procedures to lexi-cal units.
However, SHRDLU had access to a clean sym-bolic representation of the scene and only handles sen-tences it could parse complete.
The system discussedhere works with a synthetic vision system, reasons overgeometric and other visual measures, and works from ac-curate transcripts of noisy human speech.Partee provides an overview of the general formal se-mantics approach and the problems of context basedmeanings and meaning compositionality from this per-spective (Partee, 1995).
Our work reflects many of theideas from this work, such as viewing adjectives as func-tions, as well as idea?s from Pustejovsky?s theory of theGenerative Lexicon (GL) (Pustejovsky, 1995).
How-ever, these formal approaches operate in a symbolic do-main and leave the details of non-linguistic influences onmeaning unspecified, whereas we take the computationalmodelling of these influences as our primary concern.Word meanings have been approached by several re-searchers as a problem of associating visual represen-tations, often with complex internal structure, to wordforms.
Models have been suggested for visual represen-tations underlying spatial relations (Regier and Carlson,2001).
Models for verbs include grounding their seman-tics in the perception of actions (Siskind, 2001).
Landauand Jackendoff provide a detailed analysis of additionalvisual shape features that play a role in language (Landauand Jackendoff, 1993).We have previously proposed methods for visually-grounded language learning (Roy and Pentland, 2002),understanding (Roy et al, 2002), and generation (Roy,2002).
However, the treatment of semantic compositionin these efforts was relatively primitive.
While this sim-ple approach worked in the constrained domains that wehave addressed in the past, it does not scale to the presenttask.2 A Spatial Description TaskWe designed a task that requires people to describe ob-jects in computer generated scenes containing up to 30objects with random positions on a virtual surface.
Theobjects all had identical shapes and sizes, and were ei-ther green or purple in colour.
Each of the objects had a50% chance of being green, otherwise it was purple.
Thisdesign naturally led speakers to make reference to spa-tial aspects of the scene, rather than the individual objectproperties which subjects tended to use in our previouswork (Roy, 2002).
We refer to this task as the Bishoptask, and to the resulting language understanding modeland implemented system simply as Bishop.2.1 Data CollectionParticipants in the study ranged in age from 22 to 30years, and included both native and non-native Englishspeakers.
Pairs of participants were seated with theirbacks to each other, each person looking at a computerscreen which displayed a scene such as that in Figure 1.Each screen showed the same scene.
In each pair, oneparticipant served as describer, and the other as listener.The describer wore a microphone that was used to recordhis or her speech.
The describer used a mouse to select anobject from the scene, and then verbally described the se-lected object to the listener.
The listener?s task was to se-lect the same object on their own computer display basedon the verbal description.
If the selected objects matched,they disappeared from the scene and the describer wouldselect and describe another object.
If they did not match,the describer would re-attempt the description until un-derstood by the listener.
The scene contained 30 objectsat the beginning of each session, and a session endedwhen no objects remained, at which point the describerand listener switched roles and completed a second ses-sion (some participants fulfilled a role multiple times).Initially, we collected 268 spoken object descriptionsfrom 6 participants.
The raw audio was segmented usingour speech segmentation algorithm based on pause struc-ture (Yoshida, 2002).
Along with the utterances, the cor-responding scene layout and target object identity wererecorded together with the times at which objects wereselected.
This 268 utterance corpus is referred to as thedevelopment data set.
We manually transcribed each spo-ken utterance verbatim, retaining all speech errors (falsestarts and various other ungrammaticalities).
Off-topicspeech events (laughter, questions about the task, otherremarks, and filled pauses) were marked as such (they donot appear in any results we report).
We wrote a simpleheuristic algorithm based on time stamps to pair utter-ances and selections based on their time stamps.
Whenwe report numbers of utterances in data sets in this paper,they correspond to how many utterance-selection pairsour pairing algorithm produces.Once our implementation based on the developmentcorpus yielded acceptable results, we collected another179 spoken descriptions from three additional partici-pants to evaluate generalization and coverage of our ap-proach.
The discussion and analysis in the following sec-tions focuses on the development set.
In Section 6 wediscuss performance on the test set.2.2 Descriptive Strategies for Achieving JointReferenceWe distinguish three subsets of our development data, 1)a set containing those utterance/selection pairs that con-tain errors, where an error can be due to a repair or mis-take on the human speaker?s part, a segmentation mis-take by our speech segmenter, or an error by our utter-ance/selection pairing algorithm, 2) a set that containsthose utterance/selection pairs that employ descriptivestrategies other than those we cover in our computationalunderstanding system (we cover those in Sections 2.2.1to 2.2.5), and 3) the set of utterance/selection pairs in thedevelopment data that are not a member of either sub-set described above.
We refer to this last subset as the?clean?
set.
Note that the first two subsets are not mu-tually exclusive.
As we catalogue descriptive strategiesfrom the development data in the following sections, wereport two percentages for each descriptive strategy.
Thefirst is the percentage of utterance/selection pairs that em-ploy a specific descriptive strategy relative to all the utter-ance/selection pairs in the development data set.
The sec-ond is the percentage of utterance/selection pairs relativeto the clean set of utterance/selection pairs, as describedabove.2.2.1 ColourAlmost every utterance employs colour to pick out ob-jects.
While designing the task, we intentionally trivial-ized the problem of colour reference.
Objects come inonly two distinct colours, green and purple.
Unsurpris-ingly, all participants used the terms ?green?
and ?pur-ple?
to refer to these colours.
Participants used colour toidentify one or more objects in 96% of the data, and 95%of the clean data.2.2.2 Spatial Regions and ExtremaThe second most common descriptive strategy is to re-fer to spatial extremes within groups of objects and tospatial regions in the scene.
The example in Figure 2uses two spatial terms to pick out its referent: ?front?
and?left?, both of which leverage spatial extrema to direct thelistener?s attention.
Multiple spatial specifications tend tobe interpreted in left to right order, that is, selecting agroup of objects matching the first term, then amongstthose choosing objects that match the second term.
?the purple one in the front left corner?Figure 2: Example utterance specifying objects by refer-ring to spatial extremaBeing rather ubiquitous in the data, spatial extremaand spatial regions are often used in combination withother descriptive strategies like grouping, but are mostfrequently combined with other extrema and region spec-ifications.
Participants used single spatial extrema toidentify one or more objects in 72% of the data, and in78% of the clean data.
They used spatial region specifi-cations in 20% of the data (also 20% of the clean data),and combined multiple extrema or regions in 28% (30%of the clean data).2.2.3 GroupingTo provide landmarks for spatial relations and to spec-ify sets of objects to select from, participants used lan-guage to describe groups of objects.
Figure 3 shows anexample of such grouping constructs, which uses a countto specify the group (?three?).
In this example, the par-ticipant first specifies a group containing the target ob-ject, then utters another description to select within thatgroup.
Note that grouping alone never yields an indi-vidual reference, so participants compose grouping con-structs with further referential tactics (predominantly ex-trema and spatial relations) in all cases.
Participants usedgrouping to identify objects in 12% of the data and 10%of the clean data.
?there?s three on the left side; the one in thefurthest back?Figure 3: Example utterance using grouping2.2.4 Spatial RelationsAs already mentioned in Section 2.2.3, participantssometimes used spatial relations between objects orgroups of objects.
Examples of such relations are ex-pressed through prepositions like ?below?
or ?behind?
aswell as phrases like ?to the left of?
or ?in front of?.
Fig-ure 4 shows an example that involves a spatial relationbetween individual objects.
The spatial relation is com-bined with another strategy, here an extremum (as wellas two speech errors by the describer).
Participants usedspatial relations in 6% of the data (7% of the clean data).
?there?s a purple cone that?s it?s all the way on theleft hand side but it?s it?s below another purple?Figure 4: Example utterance specifying a spatial relation2.2.5 AnaphoraIn a number of cases participants used anaphoric refer-ences to the previous object removed during the descrip-tion task.
Figure 5 shows a sequence of two scenes andcorresponding utterances in which the second utterancerefers back to the object selected in the first.
Participantsemployed spatial relations in 4% of the data (3% of theclean data).
?the closest purple one on the far left side?
?the green one right behind that one?Figure 5: Example sequence of an anaphoric utterance2.2.6 OtherIn addition to the phenomena listed in the precedingsections, participants used a small number of other de-scription strategies.
Some that occurred more than oncebut that we have not yet addressed in our computationalmodel are selection by distance (lexicalised as ?close to?or ?next to?
), selection by neighbourhood (?the greenone surrounded by purple ones?
), selection by symmetry(?the one opposite that one?
), and selection by somethingakin to local connectivity (?the lone one?).
We anno-tated 13% of our data as containing descriptive strategiesother than the ones covered in the preceding sections.
Wemarked 15% of our data as containing errors.3 The Understanding Framework3.1 Synthetic VisionInstead of relying on the information we use to render thescenes in Bishop, which includes 3D object locations andthe viewing angle, we implemented a simple synthetic vi-sion algorithm to ease a future transfer back to a robot?svision system.
This algorithm produces a map attribut-ing each pixel of the rendered image to one of the objectsor the background.
In addition, we use the full colourinformation for each pixel drawn in the rendered scene.We chose to work in a virtual world for this project sothat we could freely change colour, number, size, shapeand arrangement of objects to elicit interesting verbal be-haviours in our participants.3.2 Lexical Entries and ConceptsConceptually, we treat lexical entries like classes in anobject oriented programming language.
When instanti-ated, they maintain an internal state that can be as simpleas a tag identifying the dimension along which to performan ordering, or as complex as multidimensional probabil-ity distributions.
Each entry can contain a semantic com-poser that encapsulates the function to combine this entrywith other constituents during a parse.
These composersare described in-depth in Section 4.
The lexicon usedfor Bishop contains many lexical entries attaching differ-ent semantic composers to the same word.
For exam-ple, ?left?
can be either a spatial relation or an extremum,which may be disambiguated by grammatical structureduring parsing.During composition, structures representing the ob-jects a constituent references are passed between lexicalentries.
We refer to these structures as concepts.
Each en-try accepts zero or more concepts, and produces zero ormore concepts as the result of the composition operation.A concept lists the entities in the world that are possiblereferents of the constituent it is associated with, togetherwith real numbers representing their ranking due to thelast composition operation.3.3 ParsingWe use a bottom-up chart parser to guide the interpre-tation of phrases (Allen, 1995).
Such a parser has theadvantage that it employs a dynamic programming strat-egy to efficiently reuse already computed subtrees of theparse.
Furthermore, it produces all sub components of aparse and thus produces a useable result without the needto parse to a specific symbol.Bishop performs only a partial parse, a parse that is notrequired to cover a whole utterance, but simply takes thelongest referring parsed segments to be the best guess.Unknown words do not stop the parse process.
Rather,all constituents that would otherwise end before the un-known word are taken to include the unknown word, inessence making unknown words invisible to the parserand the understanding process.
In this way we recoveressentially all grammatical chunks and relations that areimportant to understanding in our restricted task.We use a simple grammar containing 19 rules.
Witheach rule, we associate an argument structure for seman-tic composition.
When a rule is syntactically completeduring a parse, the parser checks whether the composersof the constituents in the tail of the rule can accept thenumber of arguments specified in the rule.
If so, it callsthe semantic composer associated with the constituentwith the concepts yielded by its arguments to produce aconcept for the head of the rule.4 Semantic CompositionMost of the composers presented follow the same com-position schema: they take one or more concepts as ar-guments and yield another concept that references a pos-sibly different set of objects.
Composers may introducenew objects, even ones that do not exist in the scene assuch, and they may introduce new types of objects (e.g.groups of objects referenced as if they were one object).Most composers first convert an incoming concept to theobjects it references, and subsequently perform compu-tations on these objects.
If ambiguities persist at the endof understanding an utterance (multiple possible referentsexist), we let Bishop choose the one with maximum ref-erence strength.4.1 Colour - Probabilistic Attribute ComposersAs mentioned in Section 3.1, we chose not to exploit theinformation used to render the scene, and therefore mustrecover colour information from the final rendered im-age.
The colour average for the 2D projection of eachobject varies due to occlusion by other objects, as wellas distance from and angle with the virtual camera.
Weseparately collected a set of labelled instances of ?green?and ?purple?
cones, and estimated a three dimensionalGaussian distribution from the average red, green andblue values of each pixel belonging to the example cones.When asked to compose with a given concept, this type ofprobabilistic attribute composer assigns each object refer-enced by the source concept the probability density func-tion evaluated at the average colour of the object.4.2 Spatial Extrema and Spatial Regions - OrderingComposersTo determine spatial regions and extrema, an orderingcomposer orders objects along a specified feature dimen-sion (e.g.
x coordinate relative to a group) and picks ref-erents at an extreme end of the ordering.
To do so, itassigns an exponential weight function to objects accord-ing to ?i(1+v) for picking minimal objects, where i is theobject?s position in the sequence, v is its value along thefeature dimension specified, normalized to range between0 and 1 for the objects under consideration.
The maximalcase is weighted similarly, but using the reverse order-ing subtracting the fraction in the exponent from 2.
Forour reported results ?
= 0.38.
This formula lets refer-ent weights fall off exponentially both with their posi-tion in the ordering and their distance from the extremeobject.
In that way extreme objects are isolated exceptfor cases in which many referents cluster around an ex-tremum, making picking out a single referent difficult.We attach this type of composer to words like ?leftmost?and ?top?.The ordering composer can also order objects accord-ing to their absolute position, corresponding more closelyto spatial regions rather than spatial extrema relative to agroup.
The reference strength formula for this versionis ?
(1+ddmax) where d is the euclidean distance from areference point, and dmax the maximum such distanceamongst the objects under consideration.
This version ofthe composer is attached to words like ?middle?.
It hasthe effect that reference weights are relative to absoluteposition on the screen.
An object close to the centre ofthe board achieves a greater reference weight for the word?middle?, independently of the position of other objectsof its kind.
Ordering composers work across any numberof dimensions by simply ordering objects by their Eu-clidean distance, using the same exponential falloff func-tion as in the other cases.4.3 Grouping ComposersFor non-numbered grouping (e.g., when the describersays ?group?
or ?cones?
), the grouping composersearches the scene for groups of objects that are all withina maximum distance threshold from another group mem-ber.
It only considers objects that are referenced by theconcept it is passed as an argument.
For numbered groups(?two?, ?three?
), the composer applies the additional con-straint that the groups have to contain the correct numberof objects.
Reference strengths for the concept are de-termined by the average distance of objects within thegroup.The output of a grouping composer may be thoughtof as a group of groups.
To understand the motivationfor this, consider the utterance, ?the one to the left ofthe group of purple ones?.
In this expression, the phrase?group of purple ones?
will activate a grouping composerthat will find clusters of purple cones.
For each clus-ter, the composer computes the convex hull (the minimal?elastic band?
that encompasses all the objects) and cre-ates a new composite object that has the convex hull as itsshape.
When further composition takes place to under-stand the entire utterance, each composite group servesas a potential landmark relative to ?left?.However, concepts can be marked so that their be-haviour changes to split apart concepts refering to groups.For example, the composer attached to ?of?
sets this flagon concepts passing through it.
Note that ?of?
is only in-volved in composition for grammar rules of the type NP?
NP P NP, but not for those performing spatial com-positions for phrases like ?to the left of?.
Therefore, thephrase ?the frontmost one of the three green ones?
willpick the front object within the best group of three greenobjects.4.4 Spatial Relations - Spatial ComposersThe spatial semantic composer employs a version of theAttentional Vector Sum (AVS) suggested in (Regier andCarlson, 2001).
The AVS is a measure of spatial relationmeant to approximate human judgements correspondingto words like ?above?
and ?to the left of?
in 2D scenes ofobjects.
Given two concepts as arguments, the spatial se-mantic composer converts both into sets of objects, treat-ing one set as providing possible landmarks, the other asproviding possible targets.
The composer then calculatesthe AVS for each possible combination of landmarks andtargets.
Finally, the spatial composer divides the resultby the Euclidean distance between the objects?
centres ofmass, to account for the fact that participants exclusivelyused nearby objects to select through spatial relations.4.5 Anaphoric ComposersTriggered by words like ?that?
(as in ?to the left of thatone?)
or ?previous?, an anaphoric composer produces aconcept that refers to a single object, namely the last ob-ject removed from the scene during the session.
This ob-ject specially marks the concept as referring not to thecurrent, but the previous visual scene, and any furthercalculations with this concept are performed in that vi-sual context.5 Example: Understanding a Description?the purple one?
?one on the left?
?the purple one on the left?Figure 6: Example: ?the purple one on the left?Consider the scene in Figure 6, and the output of thechart parser for the utterance, ?the purple one on the left?in Figure 7.
Starting at the top left of the parse output,the parser finds ?the?
in the lexicon as an ART (article)with a selecting composer that takes one argument.
Itfinds two lexical entries for ?purple?, one marked as aCADJ (colour adjective), and one as an N (noun).
Eachof them have the same composer, a probabilistic attributecomposer marked as P(), but the adjective expects one ar-gument whereas the noun expects none.
Given that thenoun expects no arguments and that the grammar con-tains a rule of the form NP?
N, an NP (noun phrase) isinstantiated and the probabilistic composer is applied tothe default set of objects yielded by N, which consists ofall objects visible.
This composer call is marked P(N) inthe chart.
After composition, the NP contains a subset ofonly the purple objects (Figure 6, top right).
At this pointthe parser applies NP?ART NP, which produces the NPspanning the first two words and again contains only thepurple objects, but is marked as unambiguously referringto an object.
S(NP) marks the application of this selectingcomposer called S.The parser goes on to produce a similar NP coveringthe first three words by combining the ?purple?
CADJwith ?one?
and the result with ?the?.
The ?on?
P (prepo-ART:theCADJ:purpleN:purpleNP:P(N)NP:S(NP)N:oneNP:oneNP:P(N)NP:S(NP)P:onART:theN:leftADJ:leftN:leftNP:leftNP:leftNP:S(NP)NP:S(NP)NP:O.x.min(NP)NP:O.x.min(NP)NP:O.x.min(NP)the purple one on the leftFigure 7: Sample parse of a referring noun phrasesition) is left dangling for the moment as it needs a con-stituent that follows it.
It contains a modifying seman-tic composer that simply bridges the P, applying the firstargument to the second.
After another ?the?, ?left?
hasseveral lexical entries: in its ADJ and one of its N formsit contains an ordering semantic composer that takes asingle argument, whereas its second N form contains aspatial semantic composer that takes two arguments todetermine a target and a landmark object.
At this pointthe parser can combine ?the?
and ?left?
into two possibleNPs, one containing the ordering and the other the spatialcomposer.
The first of these NPs in turn fulfills the needof the ?on?
P for a second argument according to NP?NP P NP, performing its ordering compose first on ?one?
(for ?one on the left?
), selecting all the objects on the left(Figure 6, bottom left).
The application of the orderingcomposer is denoted as O.x.min(NP) in the chart, indi-cating that this is an ordering composer ordering alongthe x axis and selecting the minimum along this axis.
Oncombining with ?purple one?, the same composer selectsall the purple objects on the left (Figure 6, bottom right).Finally on ?the purple one?, it produces the same set ofobjects as ?purple one?, but marks the concept as unam-biguously picking out a single object.
Note that the parserattempts to use the second interpretation of ?left?
(the onecontaining a spatial composer) but fails because this com-poser expects two arguments that are not provided by thegrammatical structure of the sentence.6 Results and Discussion6.1 Overall PerformanceIn Table 1 we present overall accuracy results, indicatingfor which percentage of different groups of examples oursystem picked the same referent as the person describingthe object.
The first line in the table shows performancerelative to the total set of utterances collected.
The secondone shows the percentage of utterances our system un-derstood correctly excluding those marked as using a de-scriptive strategy that was not listed in Section 4, and thusnot expected to be understood by Bishop.
The final line inTable 1 shows the percentage of utterances for which oursystem picked the correct referent relative to the clean de-velopment and testing sets.
Although there is obviouslyroom for improvement, these results are significant giventhat chance performance on this task is only 13.3% andlinguistic input was transcripts of unconstrained speech.Utterance Set Accuracy -DevelopmentAccuracy -TestingAll 76.5% 58.7%All except ?Other?
83.2% 68.8%Clean 86.7% 72.5%Table 1: Overall ResultsColour Due to the simple nature of colour naming in theBishop task, the probabilistic composers responsiblefor selecting objects based on colour made no errors.Spatial Extrema Our ordering composers correctlyidentify 100% of the cases in which a participantuses only colour and a single spatial extremum in hisor her description.
Participants also favour this de-scriptive strategy, using it with colour alone in 38%of the clean data.
In the clean training data, Bishopunderstands 86.8% of all utterances employing spa-tial extrema.
Participants composed one or morespatial region or extrema references in 30% of theclean data.
Our ordering composers correctly inter-pret 85% of these cases, for example that in Figure 2in Section 2.2.2.
The mistakes our composers makeare usually due to overcommitment and faulty order-ing.Spatial Regions Description by spatial region occursalone in only 5% of the clean data, and together withother strategies in 15% of the clean data.
Almostall the examples of this strategy occurring alone usewords like ?middle?
or ?centre?.
The top image inFigure 8 exemplifies the use of ?middle?
that ourordering semantic composer models.
The object re-ferred to is the one closest to the centre of the board.The bottom image in Figure 8 shows a different in-terpretation of middle: the object in the middle ofa (linguistically not mentioned) group of objects.Note that within the group there are two candidatecentre objects, and that the one in the front is pre-ferred.
There are also further meanings of middlethat we expand on in (Gorniak and Roy, 2003).
Insummary, we can catalogue a number of differentmeanings for the word ?middle?
in our data thatare linguistically indistinguishable, but depend onvisual and historical context to be correctly under-stood.
?the green one in the middle?
?the purple cone in the middle?Figure 8: Types of ?middles?Grouping Our composers implementing the groupingstrategies used by participants are the most simplis-tic of all composers we implemented, compared tothe depth of the actual phenomenon of visual group-ing.
As a result, Bishop only understands 29% of ut-terances that employ grouping in the clean trainingdata.
More sophisticated grouping algorithms havebeen proposed, such as Shi and Malik?s (2000).Spatial Relations The AVS measure divided by distancebetween objects corresponds very well to humanspatial relation judgements in this task.
All the er-rors that occur in utterances that contain spatial rela-tions are due to the possible landmarks or targets notbeing correctly identified (grouping or region com-posers might fail to provide the correct referents).Our spatial relation composer picks the correct ref-erent in all those cases where landmarks and tar-gets are the correct ones.
Bishop understands 64.3%of all utterances that employ spatial relations in theclean training data.
There are types of spatial rela-tions such as relations based purely on distance andcombined relations (?to the left and behind?)
that wedecided not to cover in this implementation, but thatoccur in the data and should be covered in future ef-forts.Anaphora Our solution to the use of anaphora in theBishop task performs perfectly (100% of utter-ances employing anaphora) in understanding refer-ence back to a single object in the clean developmentdata.
However, there are more complex variants ofanaphora that we do not currently cover, for examplereference back to groups of objects.7 Future DirectionsEvery one of our semantic composers attempts to solve aseparate hard problem, some of which (e.g.
grouping andspatial relations) have seen long lines of work dedicatedto more sophisticated solutions than ours.
The individualproblems were not the emphasis of this paper, and thesolutions presented here can be improved.If a parse does not produce a single referent, backtrack-ing would provide an opportunity to revise the decisionsmade at various stages of interpretation until a referentis produced.
Yet backtracking only solves problems inwhich the system knows that it has either failed to ob-tain a good answer.
We demonstrated cases of selectionof word meanings by visual context in our data.
Here, agood candidate solution according to one word meaningmay still produce the wrong referent due to a specific vi-sual context.
A future system should take into accountlocal and global visual context during composition to ac-count for these human selection strategies.By constructing the parse charts we obtain a rich setof partial and full syntactic and semantic fragments offer-ing explanations for parts of the utterance.
In the future,we plan to use this information to engage in clarificationdialogue with the human speaker.Machine learning algorithms may be used to learnmany of the parameter settings that were set by hand inthis work, including on-line learning to adapt parame-ters during verbal interaction.
Furthermore, learning newtypes of composers and appropriate corresponding gram-matical constructs poses a difficult challenge for the fu-ture.8 SummaryWe have presented a model of visually-grounded lan-guage understanding.
At the heart of the model is a setof lexical items, each grounded in terms of visual fea-tures and grouping properties when applied to objects ina scene.
A robust parsing algorithm finds chunks of syn-tactically coherent words from an input utterance.
To de-termine the semantics of phrases, the parser activates se-mantic composers that combine words to determine theirjoint reference.
The robust parser is able to process gram-matically ill-formed transcripts of natural spoken utter-ances.
In evaluations, the system selected correct objectsin response to utterances for 76.5% of the developmentset data, and for 58.7% of the test set data.
On clean datasets with various speech and processing errors held out,performance was higher yet.
We suggested several av-enues for improving performance of the system includingbetter methods for spatial grouping, semantically guidedbacktracking during sentence processing, the use of ma-chine learning to replace hand construction of models,and the use of interactive dialogue to resolve ambiguities.In the near future, we plan to transplant Bishop into aninteractive conversational robot (Roy et al, forthcoming2003), vastly improving the robot?s ability to comprehendspatial language in situated spoken dialogue.ReferencesJames Allen, 1995.
Natural Language Understanding,chapter 3.
The Benjamin/Cummings Publishing Com-pany, Inc, Redwood City, CA, USA.Peter Gorniak and Deb Roy.
2003.
Grounded composi-tional semantics for referring noun phrases.
forthcom-ing.B.
Landau and R. Jackendoff.
1993.
?what?
and ?where?in spatial language and spatial cognition.
Behaviouraland Brain Sciences, 2(16):217?238.Barbara H. Partee.
1995.
Lexical semantics and com-positionality.
In Lila R. Gleitman and Mark Liber-man, editors, An Invitation to Cognitive Science: Lan-guage, volume 1, chapter 11, pages 311?360.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA.James Pustejovsky.
1995.
The Generative Lexicon.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA, USA.Terry Regier and L. Carlson.
2001.
Grounding spatiallanguage in perception: An empirical and computa-tional investigation.
Journal of Experimental Psychol-ogy: General, 130(2):273?298.Deb Roy and Alex Pentland.
2002.
Learning words fromsights and sounds: A computational model.
CognitiveScience, 26(1):113?146.Deb Roy, Peter J. Gorniak, Niloy Mukherjee, and JoshJuster.
2002.
A trainable spoken language understand-ing system.
In Proceedings of the International Con-ference of Spoken Language Processing.D.
Roy, K. Hsiao, and N. Mavridis.
forthcoming, 2003.Coupling robot perception and physical simulation:Towards sensory-motor grounded conversation.Deb Roy.
2002.
Learning visually-grounded words andsyntax for a scene description task.
Computer Speechand Language, 16(3).Jianbo Shi and Jitendra Malik.
2000.
Normalized cutsand image segmentation.
IEEE Transactions on Pat-tern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 8(22):888?905, August.Jeffrey Mark Siskind.
2001.
Grounding the lexical se-mantics of verbs in visual perception using force dy-namics and event logic.
Journal of Artificial Intelli-gence Research, 15:31?90, August.Terry Winograd.
1970.
Procedures as a representationfor data in a computer program for understanding nat-ural language.
Ph.D. thesis, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology.Norimasa Yoshida.
2002.
Utterance segmenation forspontaneous speech recognition.
Master?s thesis, Mas-sachusetts Institute of Technology.
