International Standard for a Linguistic Annotation FrameworkNancy IdeDept.
of Computer ScienceVassar CollegePoughkeepsie,New York 12604-0520USAide@cs.vassar.eduLaurent RomaryEquipe Langue et DialogueLORIA/INRIAVandoeuvre-l?s-NancyFRANCEromary@loria.frEric de la ClergerieINRIA Rocquencourt, BP 10578153 Le Chesnay cedexFRANCEEric.De_La_Clergerie@inria.frAbstractThis paper describes the outline of a linguisticannotation framework under development byISO TC37 SC WG1-1.
This internationalstandard will provide an architecture for thecreation, annotation, and manipulation of lin-guistic resources and processing software.
Theoutline described here results from a meetingof approximately 20 experts in the field, whodetermined the principles and fundamentalstructure of the framework.
The goal is toprovide maximum flexibility for encoders andannotators, while at the same time enablinginterchange and re-use of annotated linguisticresources.1 IntroductionLanguage resources are bodies of electronic languagedata used to support research and applications in thearea of natural language processing.
Typically, suchdata are enhanced (annotated) with linguistic informa-tion such as morpho-syntactic categories, syntactic ordiscourse structure, co-reference information, etc.
; ortwo or more bodies may be aligned for correspondences(e.g., parallel translations, speech signal and transcrip-tion).Over the past 15-20 years, increasingly large bodiesof language resources have been created and annotatedby the language engineering community.
Certain fun-damental representation principles have been widelyadopted, such as the use of stand-off annotation, use ofXML, etc., and several attempts to provide generalizedannotation mechanisms and formats have been devel-oped (e.g., XCES, annotation graphs).
However, it re-mains the case that annotation formats often varyconsiderably from resource to resource, often to satisfyconstraints imposed by particular processing software.The language processing community has recognizedthat commonality and interoperability are increasinglyimperative to enable sharing, merging, and comparisonof language resources.To provide an infra-structure and framework forlanguage resource development and use, the Interna-tional Organization for Standardization (ISO) hasformed a sub-committee (SC4) under Technical Com-mittee 37 (TC37, Terminology and Other LanguageResources) devoted to Language Resource Manage-ment.
The objective of ISO/TC 37/SC 4 is to prepareinternational standards and guidelines for effective lan-guage resource management in applications in the mul-tilingual information society.
To this end, the committeeis developing principles and methods for creating, cod-ing, processing and managing language resources, suchas written corpora, lexical corpora, speech corpora, dic-tionary compiling and classification schemes.
The focusof the work is on data modeling, markup, data exchangeand the evaluation of language resources other than ter-minologies (which have already been treated in ISO/TC37).
The worldwide use of ISO/TC 37/SC 4 standardsshould improve information management within indus-trial, technical and scientific environments, and increaseefficiency in computer-supported language communica-tion.At present, language professionals and standardiza-tion experts are not sufficiently aware of the standardi-zation efforts being undertaken by ISO/TC 37/SC 4.Promoting awareness of future activities and risingproblems, therefore, is crucial for the success of thecommittee, and will be required to ensure widespreadadoption of the standards it develops.
An even morecritical factor for the success of the committee's work isto involve, from the outset, as many and as broad arange of potential users of the standards as possible.Within ISO/TC 37/SC 4, a working group (WG1-1)has been established to develop a Linguistic AnnotationFramework (LAF) that can serve as a basis for harmo-nizing existing language resources as well as developingnew ones.
In order to ensure that the framework is de-veloped based on the input and consensus of the re-search community, a group of experts1was convened onNovember 21-22, 2002, at Pont-?-Mousson, France, tolay out the overall structure of the framework.
.In thispaper, we outline the conclusions from this meeting, andsolicit the input of other members of the community toinform its further development.2 Background and rationaleThe standardization of principles and methods for thecollection, processing and presentation of language re-sources requires a distinct type of activity.
Basic stan-dards must be produced with wide-ranging applicationsin view.
In the area of language resources, these stan-dards should provide various technical committees ofISO, IEC and other standardizing bodies with thegroundwork for building more precise standards forlanguage resource management.The need for harmonization of representation for-mats for different kinds of linguistic information is criti-cal, as resources and information are more and morefrequently merged, compared, or otherwise utilized incommon systems.
This is perhaps most obvious forprocessing multi-modal information, which must sup-port the fusion of multimodal inputs and represent thecombined and integrated contributions of different typesof input (e.g., a spoken utterance combined with gestureand facial expression), and enable multimodal output(see, for example, Bunt and Romary, 2002).
However,language processing applications of any kind require theintegration of varieties of linguistic information, which,in today?s environment, come from potentially diversesources.
We can therefore expect use and integration of,for example, syntactic, morphological, discourse, etc.information for multiple languages, as well as informa-tion structures like domain models and ontologies.We are aware that standardization is a difficult busi-ness, and that many members of the targeted communi-ties are skeptical about imposing any sort of standards atall.
There are two major arguments against the idea ofstandardization for language resources.
First, the diver-sity of theoretical approaches to, in particular, the an-1Participants: Nuria Bel (Universitat de Barcelona), DavidDurand (Brown University), Henry Thompson (University ofEdinburgh), Koiti Hasida (AIST Tokyo), Eric De La Clergerie(INRIA), Lionel Clement (INRIA), Laurent Romary (LORIA),Nancy Ide (Vassar College), Kiyong Lee (Korea University),Keith Suderman (Vassar College), Aswani Kumar (LORIA),Chris Laprun (NIST), Thierry Declerck (DFKI), Jean Carletta(University of Edinburgh), Michael Strube (European MediaLaboratory), Hamish Cunningham (University of Sheffield),Tomaz Erjavec (Institute Jozef Stefan), Hennie Brugman(Max-Planck-Institut f?r Psycholinguistik), Fabio Vitali (Uni-versite di Bologna), Key-Sun Choi (Korterm), Jean-MichelBorde (Digital Visual), Eric Kow (LORIA).notation of various linguistic phenomena suggests thatstandardization is at least impractical, if not impossible.Second, it is feared that vast amounts of existing dataand processing software, which may have taken years ofeffort and considerable funding to develop, will be ren-dered obsolete by the acceptance of new standards bythe community.
Recognizing the validity of both ofthese concerns, WG1-1 does not seek to establish a sin-gle, definitive annotation scheme or format.
Rather, thegoal is to provide a framework for linguistic annotationof language resources that can serve as a reference orpivot for different annotation schemes, and which willenable their merging and/or comparison.
To this end,the work of WG1-1 includes the following:o analysis of the full range of annotation types andexisting schemes, to identify the fundamentalstructural principles and content categories;o instantiation of an abstract format capable of cap-turing the structure and content of  linguistic anno-tations, based on the analysis in (1);o establishment of a mechanism for formal definitionof a set of reference content categories which canbe used ?off the shelf?
or serve as a point of depar-ture for precise definition of new or modified cate-gories.o provision of both a set of guidelines and principlesfor developing new annotation schemes and con-crete mechanisms for their implementation, forthose who wish to use them.By situating all of the standards developmentsquarely in the framework of XML and related stan-dards such as RDF, DAML+OIL, etc., we hope to en-sure not only that the standards developed by thecommittee provide for compatibility with establishedand widely accepted web-based technologies, but alsothat transduction from legacy formats into XML formatsconformant to the new standards is feasible.3  General requirements for a linguisticannotation frameworkThe following general requirements for a linguistic an-notation framework were identified by the group of ex-perts at Pont-?-Mousson:Expressive adequacyThe framework must provide means to represent allvarieties of linguistic information (and possibly alsoother types of information).
This includes representingthe full range of information from the very general toinformation at the finest level of granularity.Media independenceThe framework must handle all potential media types,including text, audio, video, image, etc.
and should, inprinciple, provide common mechanisms for handling allof them.
The framework will rely on existing or devel-oping standards for representing multi-media.Semantic adequacyo Representation structures must have a formal se-mantics, including definitions of logical operationso There must exist a centralized way of sharing de-scriptors and information categoriesIncrementalityo The framework must provide support for variousstages of input interpretation and output generation.o The framework must provide for the representationof partial/under-specified results and ambiguities,alternatives, etc.
and their merging and comparison.UniformityRepresentations must utilize same ?building blocks?
andthe same methods for combining them.OpennessThe framework must not dictate representations de-pendent on a single linguistic theory.ExtensibilityThe framework must provide ways to declare and inter-change extensions to the centralized data category reg-istry.Human readabilityRepresentations must be human readable, at least forcreation and editing.Processability (explicitness)Information in an annotation scheme must be ex-plicit?that is, the burden of interpretation should not beleft to the processing software.ConsistencyDifferent mechanisms should not be used to indicate thesame type of information.To fulfill these requirements, it is necessary to iden-tify a consistent underlying data model for data and itsannotations.
A data model is a formalized description ofthe data objects (in terms of composition, attributes,class membership, applicable procedures, etc.)
and rela-tions among them, independent of their instantiation inany particular form.
A data model capable of capturingthe structure and relations in diverse types of data andannotations is a pre-requisite for developing a commoncorpus-handling environment: it impacts the design ofannotation schema, encoding formats and data archi-tectures, and tool architectures.As a starting assumption, we can conceive of an an-notation as a one- or two-way link between an annota-tion object and a point (or a list/set of points) or span (ora list/set of spans) within a base data set.
Links may ormay not have a semantics--i.e., a type--associated withthem.
Points and spans in the base data may themselvesbe objects, or sets or lists of objects.
We make severalobservations concerning this assumption:o the model assumes a fundamental linearity of ob-jects in the base,2e.g., as a time line (speech); a s e-quence of characters, words, sentences, etc.
; orpixel data representing images;o the granularity of the data representation and en-coding is critical: it must be possible to uniquelypoint to the smallest possible component (e.g.,character, phonetic component, pitch signal, mor-pheme, word, etc.
);o an annotation scheme must be mappable to thestructures defined for annotation objects in themodel;o an encoding scheme must be able to capture theobject structure and relations expressed in themodel, including class membership and inheritance,therefore requiring a sophisticated means to specifylinkage within and between documents;o it is necessary to consider the logistics of identify-ing spans by enclosing them in start and end tags(thus enabling hierarchical grouping of objects inthe data itself), vs. explicit addressing of start andend points, which is required for read-only data;o it must be possible to represent objects and rela-tions in some (fairly straightforward) form that pre-vents information loss;o ideally, it should be possible to represent the ob-jects and relations in a variety of formats suitable todifferent tools and applications.ISO TC37/SC 4?s goal is to develop a framework forthe design and implementation of linguistic resourceformats and processes in order to facilitate the exchangeof information between language processing modules.
Awell-defined representational framework for linguisticinformation will also provide for the specification andcomparison of existing application-specific representa-tions and the definition of new ones, while ensuring alevel of interoperability between them.
The frameworkshould allow for variation in annotation schemes while2Note that this observation applies to the fundamental struc-ture of stored data.
Because the targets of a relation may beeither individual objects, or sets or lists of objects, informationwith more than one dimension is accommodated.at the same time enabling comparison and evaluation,merging of different annotations, and development ofcommon tools for creating and using annotated data.
Forthis purpose we envisage a common ?pivot?
formatbased on a data model capable of capturing all types ofinformation in linguistic annotations, into and out ofwhich site-specific representation formats can be trans-duced.
This strategy is similar to that adopted in thedesign of languages intended to be reusable across plat-forms, such as Java.
The pivot format must support thecommunication among all modules in the system, andbe adequate for representing not only the end result ofinterpretation, but also intermediate results.4 Terms and definitionsThe following terms and definitions are used in the dis-cussion that follows:Annotation: The process of adding linguistic informa-tion to language data (?annotation of a corpus?)
or thelinguistic information itself (?an annotation?
), inde-pendent of its representation.
For example, one mayannotate a document for syntax using a LISP-like repre-sentation, an XML representation, etc.Representation: The format in which the annotation isrendered, e.g.
XML, LISP, etc.
independent of its con-tent.
For example, a phrase structure syntactic annota-tion and a dependency-based annotation may both berepresented using XML, even though the annotationinformation itself is very different.Types of Annotation: We distinguish two fundamentaltypes of annotation activity:1. segmentation : delimits linguistic elements thatappear in the primary data.
Includingo continuous segments (appear contiguously inthe primary data)o super- and sub-segments, where groups ofsegments will comprise the parts of a largersegment (e.g., a contiguous word segmentstypically comprise a sentence segment)o discontinuous segments (linking continuoussegments)o landmarks (e.g time stamps) that note a point inthe primary dataIn current practice, segmental information mayor may not appear in the document containing theprimary data itself.
Documents considered to beread-only, for example, might be segmented byspecifying byte offsets into the primary documentwhere a given segment begins and ends.2.
linguistic annotation: provides linguistic informa-tion about the segments in the primary data, e.g., amorpho-syntactic annotation in which a part ofspeech and lemma are associated with each seg-ment in the data.
Note that the identification of asegment as a word, sentence, noun phrase, etc.
alsoconstitutes linguistic annotation.
In current practice,when it is possible to do so, segmentation andidentification of the linguistic role or properties ofthat segment are often combined (e.g., syntacticbracketing, or delimiting each word in the docu-ment with an XML tag that identifies the segmentas a word, sentence, etc.
).Stand-off annotation: Annotations layered over agiven primary document and instantiated in a documentseparate from that containing the primary data.
Stand-off annotations refer to specific locations in the primarydata, by addressing byte offsets, elements, etc.
to whichthe annotation applies.
Multiple stand-off annotationdocuments for a given type of annotation can refer tothe same primary document (e.g., two different part ofspeech annotations for a given text).
There is no re-quirement that a single XML-compliant document maybe created by merging stand-off annotation documentswith the primary data; that is, two annotation documentsmay specify trees over the primary data that containoverlapping hierarchies.5 Design principlesThe following general principles will guide the LAFdevelopment:o The data model and document form are distinct butmappable to one anothero The data model is parsimonious, general, and for-mally preciseo The data model is built around a clear separation ofstructure and contento There is an inventory of logical operations sup-ported by the data model, which define its abstractsemanticso The document form is largely under user controlo The mapping between the flexible document formand data model is via a rigid dump-formato The mapping from document form to the dumpformat is documented in an XML Schema (or thefunctional equivalent thereof) associated with thedocumento Mapping is operationalized either via schema-baseddata-binding process o r via schema-derivedstylesheet mapping between the user document andthe dump-format document.o It must be possible to isolate specific layers of an-notation from other annotation layers or the primary(base) data; i.e., it must be possible to create a for-mat using stand-off annotationo The dump format must be designed to enablestream marshalling and unmarshallingThe overall architecture of LAF as dictated by theseprinciples is given in Figure 1.
The left side of the dia-gram represents the user-defined document form, and islabeled ?human?
to indicate that creation and editing, ofthe resource is accomplished via human interaction withthis format.
This format should, to the extent possible,be human readable.
We will support XML for theseformats (e.g., by providing style sheets, examples, etc.
)but not disallow other formats.
The right side representsthe dump format, which is machine processable, andmay not be human readable as it is intended for use onlyin processing.
This format will be instantiated in XML.Figure 1.
Overall LAF architecture6 PracticeThe following set of practices will guide the implementa-tion of the LAF:o The data model is essentially a feature structuregraph with a moderate admixture of algebra (e.g.disjunction, sets), grounded in n-dimensional regionsof primary data and literals.o The dump format is isomorphic to the data model.o Semantic coherence is provided by a registry of fea-tures in an XML-compatible format (e.g., RDF),which can be used directly in the user-defined for-mats and is always used with the dump format.o Resources will be available to support the design andspecification of document forms, for example:- XML Schemas in several normal forms based ontype definitions and abstract elements that can beexploited via type derivation and/or substitutiongroup;- XPointer design-patterns with standoff seman-tics;- Schema annotations specifying mapping betweendocument form and data model;- Meta-stylesheet for mapping from annotatedXML Schema to mapping stylesheets;- Data-binding stylesheets with language-specificbindings (e.g.
Java).o Users may define their own data categories or estab-lish variants of categories in the registry.
In suchcases, the newly defined data categories will be for-malized using the same format as definitions avail-able in the registry, and will be associated with thedump format.o The responsibility of converting to the dump formatis on the producer of the resource.o The producer is responsible for documenting themapping from the user format to the data model.Dump format(some instantiation ofdata model)MAPPING SPEC(e.g.
W3CXML schema)User annotationformMeta-stylesheetstylesheetIntended for archiveAccompanied bymapping to datamodelPivot formatHUMAN MACHINEo The ISO working group will provide test suites andexamples following these guidelines:- The example format should illustrate use of datamodel/mapping- The examples will show both the left (human-readable) and right (machine processable) sideformats- Examples will be provided that use existingschemes7 DiscussionThe framework outlined in the previous section providesfor the use of any annotation format consistent with thefeature structure-based data model that will be used todefine the pivot format.
This suggests a future scenario inwhich annotators may create and edit annotations in aproprietary format, transduce the annotations using avail-able tools to the pivot format for interchange and/or proc-essing, and if desired, transduce the pivot form of theannotations (and/or additional annotation introduced byprocessing) back into the proprietary format.
We antici-pate the future development of annotation tools that pro-vide a user-oriented interface for specifying annotationinformation, and which then generate annotations in thepivot format directly.
Thus the pivot format is intended tofunction in the same way as, for example, Java byte codefunctions for programmers, as a universal ?machine lan-guage?
that is interpreted by processing software into aninternal representation suited to its particular require-ments.
As with Java byte code, users need never see ormanipulate the pivot format; it is solely for machine con-sumption.Information units or data categories provide the se-mantics of an annotation.
Data categories are the mosttheory and application-specific part of an annotationscheme.
Therefore, LAF includes a Data Category Regis-try to provide a means to formally define data categoriesfor reference and use in annotation.
To make them maxi-mally interoperable and consistent with existing stan-dards, RDF schemas can be used to formalize theproperties and relations associated with each data cate-gory.
The RDF schema ensures that each instantiation ofthe described objects is recognized as a sub-class of moregeneral classes and inherits the appropriate properties.Annotations will reference the data categories via a URLidentifying their instantiations in the Data Category Reg-istry itself.
The class and sub-class mechanisms providedin RDFS and its extensions in OWL will also enablecreation of an ontology of annotation classes and types.A formally defined set of categories will have severalfunctions: (1) it will provide a precise semantics for an-notation categories that can be either used ?off the shelf?by annotators or modified to serve specific needs; (2) itwill provide a set of reference categories onto whichscheme-specific names can be mapped; and (3) it willprovide a point of departure for definition of variant ormore precise categories.
Thus the overall goal of the DataCategory Registry is not to impose a specific set of cate-gories, but rather to ensure that the semantics of datacategories included in annotations (whether they exist inthe Registry or not) are well-defined and understood.The data model that will define the pivot format mustbe capable of representing all of the information con-tained in diverse annotation types.
The model we assumeis a feature structure graph for annotation information,capable of referencing n-dimensional regions of primarydata as well as other annotations.
The choice of thismodel is indicated by its almost universal use in defininggeneral-purpose annotation formats, including the Ge-neric Modeling Tool (GMT) (Ide & Romary, 2001, 2002)and Annotation Graphs (Bird & Liberman, 2001).
TheXML-based GMT could serve as a starting point for de-fining the pivot format; its applicability to diverse anno-tation types, including terminology, dictionaries and otherlexical data (Ide, et al, 2000), morphological annotation(Ide & Romary, 2001a; 2003) and syntactic annotation(Ide & Romary, 2001b) demonstrates its generality.
Asspecified by the LAF architecture, the GMT implements afeature structure graph, and exploits the hierarchicalstructure of XML elements and XML?s powerful inter-and intra-document pointing and linkage mechanisms forreferencing both ?raw?
and XML-tagged primary dataand its annotations.The provision of development resources, includingschemas, design patterns, and stylesheets, will enableannotators and software developers to immediately adaptto LAF.
Example mappings, e.g., for XCES-encoded an-notations, will also be provided.8 ConclusionIn this paper we describe the Linguistic AnnotationFramework under development by ISO TC37/SC 4 WG1-1, as defined by a group of experts convened at a work-shop in Pont-?-Mousson, France, in late 2002.
Its designis intended to allow for, on the one hand, maximum flexi-bility for annotators, and.
on the other, processing effi-ciency and reusability.
This is accomplished byseparating user annotation formats from the ex-change/processing format.
This separation also ensuresthat pre-existing annotations are compatible with LAF.ISO TC37/SC4 is just beginning its work, and will usethe general framework discussed in the preceding sectionsas its starting point.
However, the work of the committeewill not be successful unless it is accepted by the lan-guage processing community.
To ensure widespread ac-ceptance, it is critical to involve as many representativesof the community in the development of the standards aspossible, in order to ensure that all needs are addressed.This paper serves as a call for participation to the lan-guage processing community; those interested shouldcontact the TC 37/SC 4 chairman (Laurent Romary:romary@loria.fr).
For general information, consult theISO TC37/SC4 website (http://www.tc37sc4.org).ReferencesBird, S. & Liberman, M. (2001).
A formal framework forlinguistic annotation.
Speech Communication, 33:1-2,23-60.Bunt.
H. & Romary, L. (2002).
Towards MultimodalContent Representation.
Proceedings of the Workshopon International Standards for Terminology and Lan-guage Resource Management, Las Palmas.Ide, N. & Romary, L. (2001a).
Standards for LanguageResources, IRCS Workshop on Linguistic Databases,Philadelphia, 141-49.Ide, N. & Romary, L. (2001b).
A Common Frameworkfor Syntactic Annotation.
Proceedings of ACL'2001,Toulouse, 298-305.Ide, N., Kilgarriff, A., & Romary, L. (2000).
A FormalModel of Dictionary Structure and Content.
Proceed-ings of Euralex 2000, Stuttgart, 113-126.Ide, N. & Romary, L. (2003).
Encoding Syntactic Anno-tation.
In Abeill?, A.
(ed.).
Treebanks: Building andUsing Syntactically Annotated Corpora.
Dordrecht:Kluwer Academic Publishers (in press).
