Building a New Internet Chat System for Sharing Timing InformationKanayo OguraSchool ofknowledge Science,Japan Advanced Institute ofScience and Technology1-1 Asahidai,Tatsunokuchi,Nomi, Ishikawa,923-1292, Japank-ogura@jaist.ac.jpTakeshi MasudaNEC Informatec Systems,Ltd.2561,Shinohara,Kohoku, Yokohama,Kanagawa,222-0026, Japant-masuda@qg.jp.nec.comMasato IshizakiInstitute Socio-Informationand Communication Studies,The Univ.
of Tokyo7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku,Tokyo,113-0033, Japanishizaki@isics.u-tokyo.ac.jpAbstractChat system has gained popularity as atool for real-time conversation.
How-ever, standard chat systems have prob-lems due to lack of timing information.To tackle this problem, we have built asystem which has the following func-tions: 1) function of making typing statevisible; 2) floor holding function at thestart of typing.
The evaluation resultsshow that the sys-tem with each newfunction significantly increases thenumber of turns, which indicates the ef-fectiveness of the new functions forsmooth communication.
The survey re-sults showed that the system with thefunction of making typing state visiblesignificantly different from that withoutthem concerning 1) easiness of adjust-ing the timing of utterances andsmoothness of conversations, and 2)easiness of using the system.1 Introduction22.1Use of computer communication tools is nowindispensable to our everyday life because of theproliferation of computer network.
These com-munication tools include E-mail, BBS (BulletinBoard System) and chat systems.
Among all,chat system users have been increasing dramati-cally for its real  time nature.
Despite of its popu-larity, standard chat systems do not allow usersto share timing information, which is thought tobe necessary for smooth communication.
Thisoften makes chat conversations confusing suchas ones with a lot of repetitions and corrections.To tackle the problem of lack of timing in-formation, we have implemented a system whichhas the following functions: 1) function of mak-ing typing state visible; 2) floor holding functionat the start of typing.To evaluate the effectiveness of the system,the length of utterance and the number of utter-ances are used as quantitative index for smoothcommunication.
We also conducted question-naire surveys of users' evaluation of the systemfrom effective-ness of the new functions to easi-ness of using the system.The rest of the paper is organized as follows.Section two explains the problems of standardchat systems and related studies to tackle them.Section three describes our implemented newsystem with explanatory examples.
Section fourshows the effectiveness of our new system byquantitative evaluation results.
Section five con-cludes with some final remarks and our furtherattempt to improve the system.Previous WorkProblems of standard chat systemsIn chat conversations, even if no message ap-pears on the screen, this does not mean other us-ers are typing a message.
Other users might bereading or waiting for the others' message or beleaving the computer.
This is due to the mecha-nism of standard chat systems.
In standard chatsystems, a user sends a message by pressing thereturn key.
This means that what users know isonly complete utterances, without the informa-tion on how the utterances are made: In face-to-face conversation, the participants sometimessignal the difficulty of making utterances by in-serting fillers and pauses, but in chat conversa-tion, the participants cannot send such kind ofinformation.
The lack of this process informationhas been known to cause phenomena similar tooverlap in face-to-face conversation and interrup-tion [1,2].
Figure 1 shows an example of thisoverlap-like phenomenon.-----------------------------------------------------------1:A>I?m going to visit a company tomorrow.2:B>You are going to Osaka, aren?t you?3:A>So, how is the Job interview of T Com-pany going?4:A>Yes, I?m going to Osaka.5:B>I have to submit data.
So ?-----------------------------------------------------------Figure 1: Example of overlap-like phenomenaIn Figure 1, Speaker A talked about the visit tosome company (utterance 1) and speaker Bchecked where A would go in response to utter-ance 1.
At almost the same time of B's response,A sent his message about the job interview (ut-terance 3), which made adjacent turns semanti-cally irrelevant.
This overlap-like phenomenoncan be escaped if at least A knows B is typing aresponse to A.2.22.3Communicating the information on howthe utterances are madeMSN messenger [3] shows whether the partici-pants are typing at the bottom of the system win-dow.
Tangible Chat [5] communicates the stateof the other user's typing using vibration of thecushions.
When a user starts to type, the otheruser's chair cushion vibrates, which enables usersto share typing information without distractingtheir attention to the messages.
In UNIX talk pro-gram (a little old chat system), users can send amessage character by character, which allowsthem to know what the others are doing.Alternative Interfaces for Chat realized twoproto-type systems; Status Client for sharingstatus information; Flow Client for sharing timesequence information [4].
Status client imple-mented the following functions for sharing user?sstatus information.?
When a user presses a key, his or her name inthe participants list is highlighted.?
A user?s last utterance appears next to his orher name in the participants list.?
When a user starts to write a message, it ap-pears in gray color next to his or her name inthe participants list.Flow Client improved the following floor hold-ing function so that slow typists can easily joinconversation.?
A user has own track on screen?
Visualization of participants' character andtiming information?
Auto scrolling of the message historyThe design concept of our new system- User interfaceMany people have already used the current chatsystems and got accustomed to the interface ofthe current system.
This observation was con-firmed in the evaluation of Status Clients andFlow clients [4].
Thus, we decided to make theinterface of our new system similar to that of thecurrent system.- The information the proposed system communi-catesOur preliminary experiments confirmed that theinformation about whether the other participantsare writing does not improve easiness of usingthe system.
Based on this result, we decided toexamine two approaches: one is to increase theinformation to be communicated.
That is, as inthe UNIX talk program, the system communi-cates what the participants write in real time; Theother is to focus on the floor holding function.
Inface-to-face conversation, the information onhow the utterances are made is used for taking orholding the floor.
Thus if the chat system userscan take or hold the floor easily, this might con-tribute to improving easiness of using the system.With respect to the function of the floor hold-ing, the former function might subsume the latter.However, this does not mean both functions arethe same.
Some users do not want to show theprocess of utterance making and even think itdistracts their attention.
If this is true, and thesystem can support the floor holding functioneffectively, then system does not have to com-municate what the participants writes characterby character, which will be examined in Sectionfour.33.13.2The Implemented New Chat SystemWe implemented a new system in which userscan share the process information.
An exampleof the system display is shown in Figure 2 and 3.A user sends messages and read conversationhistory in the main window (Figure 2), and rec-ognizes the typing state of other users in the subwindow (Figure 3).Function of making the typing state visi-bleThe new system can show the typing state ofother users for all the time.
When a user connectsto the system, his or her nicknames appear in thesub window.
Figure 3 shows the display where'miho' and 'yo' connected to the system and'miho' sent a message  "??
(Ishikawa)".
Eachtime a user starts to write a message, a new textappears next to his or her name in the sub win-dow.Floor holding function at the start oftypingIn face-to-face conversation, people monitoreach other's behavior, which helps them taketurns smoothly.
But in the standard chat systems,a user cannot know each other's states, since s/hesee only complete utterances without the infor-mation on how the utterances are made.
A usersometimes misses his or her turn because of this.The first user is writing a message in response tothe second's, while the second user sends anothermessage which is accepted by the system beforethe first user's response.
To deal with this prob-lem, the new system implemented a floor holdingfunction at the start of writing a message.When a user starts to write a message, the systemholds the place or turn in advance for the user,displaying [--- start to write a message ---] in themain window.
Thus, utterances are displayed inthe order of the time when a user starts to type.Users can send their messages without consider-ing their typing speed.The system also allows users to stop sendinga message in the middle.
In this case, the systemholds a line with the message [stop writing amessage without sending] in gray color in themain window.
This function is for showing thestatus or the activity of a user even when s/hedoes not send a message.Figure2: Main window of the systemFigure3: Sub window of the system-----------------------------------------------------------1:???????
?take           hello2:???????
?miho         hello3:????????
?ALLyo               hello         ALL4:???????????
?take     it is cold today, isn?t it?5:????????????????
?miho    [stop writing a message]6:????????
?yo            Yeah7:???????????????
?miho   Where are you all come from ?8:???????????????
?take   [--- start writing a message ---]9:??????
?yo       I'm from Ishikawa10: ???????????????
?miho  [--- start writing a message ---]11: ???????????????
?yo      [--- start writing a message ---]-----------------------------------------------------------Figure 4: English translation of the chat dialoguein the main window (Figure 2)44.1Evaluation of the SystemExperimental DesignFour experimental systems were built to evaluatethe effectiveness of the system (Table 1)Function  SystemTyping state  Floor holdingsystem1 invisible at the end of typingsystem2 visible at the end of typingsystem3 invisible at the start of typingsystem4 visible at the start of typingTable1: Experimental systemsIn the experiments, eight groups, each of whichconsists of three subjects, engage in chat conver-sation.
All subjects are computer users at the in-ter-mediate level or higher: they haveexperiences of using chat systems and no prob-lems of typing.
The task of the experiments isjust to chat with each other about any topics fortwenty minutes.4.2 Chat logsThe average and the standard deviation of thenumber and the length of turns are shown in Ta-ble 3 and 4, respectively.Ave.
(SD)  B1 B2A1 16.83 (6.32)  25.33 (10.01)A2 24.42 (10.4)  22.00 (8.61)Table 2: Average number of the turns and its SDAve.
(SD)  B1 B2A1 17.82 (5.97) 16.48 (4.71)A2 17.70 (6.04) 17.98 (4.09)Table 3: Average length of the turns and its SDble 4.We examined the effects of the functions byapplying two-way ANOVA to the number andthe length of turns.
Factors and levels aresummarized in TaLevel 1 Level 2Factor A?
(typing state )visible(A1)invisible(A2)Factor B?
(floor holding)at the endof typing(B1)at the startof typing(B2)Table 4: Factor and Level for ANOVATable 5 and 6 shows that main effects concerningboth the number and the length of turns are notsignificant.
But interaction effects concerning thenumber of turns are significant.
The detailedanalysis of the interaction effects showed that thesystem with each new function significantly in-creases the number of turns.The previous work suggested two hypothe-ses about the number and the length of turns[4][5].
(1) If users share the process information, thiswill prompt smoothness of communicationwhich results in the increase of the number ofturns.
(2) If users use the function of floor holding atthe start of writing a message, they will be ableto write what they really want without consider-ing time pressure.
This makes the length of turnslonger than that without using the function.Adopting these assumptions, the results heremight indicate the effectiveness of the new func-tions for smooth communication.
The number ofturns didn't increase when participants used thesystem with both functions.
These functions aredisplayed on different windows and might dis-tract user's attention.However, these assumptions can be said to berather na?ve, since the number and the length ofturns can be affected by many other factors likethe familiarity between the participants and kindsof topics the participants happen to choose.
Stillwe do not have good evaluation criteria for thefunctions of chat systems in general and thus theinterpretation of our data against these assump-tions should be used as corroboration to show theeffectiveness of our system, but apparently notenough to prove it.
Therefore, we conductedquestionnaire survey to examine the usability ofthe system.SS  d.f.
MS  FFactor A 54.19 1 54.19 0.62Level B1 345.04 1 345.04.
3.92*Level B2 66.67 1 66.67 0.76Factor B 111.02 1 111.02 1.26Level A1 433.05 1 433.05 4.93**Level A2 35.04 1 35.04 0.40Interaction 357.52 1 357.52 4.07**Error 87.95 44      1.99Total  47(*: level of significance 10% **: 5%)Table 5: ANOVA for the number of turnsSS d.f.
MS FFactor A   5.70 1   5.70 0.19Factor B   3.38   1   3.38 0.11Interaction   7.48   1   7.84 0.26Error 1332.47   44  30.28  1.00Total     47Table 6: ANOVA for the length of turns4.3 Questionnaire surveyItem 1      Item  2    Item 3System 1System 2System 3System 42.58           2.67        3.501.92           3.67        3.752.17           3.00        3.001.58           3.92         4.00Item 1: smoothness of conversationItem 2: Easiness of adjusting the timing ofmaking utterancesItem 3: Easiness of using the systemTable 7: Evaluation results of questionnaire sur-veyExperimental subjects were asked to answer thequestions such as effectiveness of the new func-tions and the easiness of using the system onfive-point scale.
Table 7 shows the part of theresults.The results showed that the system with thefunction of making typing state visible (factor A)gains significantly higher score than that withoutthem concerning the smoothness of conversa-tions, the easiness of adjusting the timing of ut-terances and the easiness of using the system(Table 8,9 and 10).
This suggests that the func-tion of making typing state visible is effective inchat systems.SS d.f.
MS FFactor A 4.69 1 4.69 3.90*Factor B 1.69 1 1.69 1.41Interaction 0.02 1 0.02 0.02Error 1.20 44 0.03Total  47There are no great differences for all the sys-tems and the ratio of system 4 is the lowest.
Thecombination of functions might raise awarenessfor others' behavior, but the combination effectsshould be examined more thoroughly as futurework(*: level of significance 10% )Table 8: " The smoothness of conversations?SS d.f.
MS FFactor A 11.02 1 11.02 8.38**Factor B 1.02 1 1.02 0.78Interaction 0.02 1 0.02 0.02Error 1.32 44 0.03Total  474.3%6.4%8.3%2.7%System1 4.3%System2 6.4%System3 8.3%System4 2.7%Figure5: The ratio of overlap-like phenomena4.5 Semantically irrelevant turns in adjacentpositions (**: level of significance 5%)Table 9: " Easiness of adjusting the timing ofutterances " Table 11 shows examples of sequence change ofturns.
In the normal sequence of turns example,speaker A was able to respond to speaker B?sutterance 40, while in the sequence change of theturns example, speaker B?s utterance 42 wronglypreceded A?s response 41 to B?s utterance 40,which makes adjacent utterances 40 and 41 dis-rupted.SS d.f.
MS FFactor A 4.69 1 4.69 5.83**Factor B 0.19 1 0.19 0.23Interaction 1.69 1 1.69 2.09Error 0.81 44 0.02Total  47[Sequence change of turns](**:level of significance 5%)Table 10: " The easiness of using the system "4.4 The number of overlap-like phenomenaThe new system enables users to share the proc-ess information.
Theoretically this should de-crease overlap-like phenomena observed inconversations using the standard chat systems.Uttr.No.40 B Smother the sliced meat and theflour separately41 B So it's difficult to cook it by my-self42 A Ah I'm getting hungry somehow[Normal sequence of turns] Figure 5 shows the ratio of the overlap-likephenomena.
It is difficult to find overlap-likephenomena from chat logs.
Here we counted thenumber of the places which satisfies the follow-ing  conditions: one is that the interval of utter-ances should be short (three seconds here); Theother is that the topic threads should be parallel.We used an algorithm proposed in [6] to extracttopic threads.Uttr.No.40 B Smother the sliced meat and theflour separately42 A Ah I'm getting hungry some-how41 B So it's difficult to cook it bymyselfTable 11: Examples of sequence change of turns5sign.Conclusion and Further StudyWe built a new system for sharing the process in-formation.
The system has the following func-tions: 1) function of making typing state visible;2) floor holding function at the start of typing.The evaluation results showed that the systemwith each function significantly increases thenumber of turns, which might indicate the effec-tiveness of the new functions for smooth com-munication.
The survey results showed that thesystem with the function of making typing statevisible gained significantly higher score than thesystem without it concerning easiness of adjust-ing the timing of making utterances, smoothnessof conversations, and easiness of using the sys-tem.S ystem317.3%82.7%changingotherS ystem413.%86.7%changingotherThis system was confirmed to be effective tothe problems caused by the lack of time informa-tion, but did not solve it completely.
We triedanother approach to solve one of the problems,semantically irrelevant turns in adjacent position.We implemented a function by which users ex-plicitly specify a semantically relevant turn withits number and those relevant turns are displayedin the same color (Figure 8).
We conductedquestionnaire survey to verify the effectivenessof this function, but the results confirmed theusefulness of this function, but also the need forthe improvement of the interface deFigure 7: The ratio of changing sequence of turnsfor system 3 and 4The number of sequence change of turns is ex-pected to decrease when the system has the floorholding function.
Based on the method proposedin [6], these turns were examined and their ratiowas calculated shown in Figure 7.
The resultsindicated that there are no great differences forboth systems (changing sequence of turns existedat least 10% in both systems).
The ratio of sys-tem 4 is a little lower than that of system 3.
Thismight be able to be interpreted that visibility oftyping information can be one of the factors todecrease sequence of change of turns, but thisneed s to be examined in future work.Please type the number of a semanticallyrelevant turn to the current.Figure 8: Example of the Dialog Box for a newfunctionReferences[1] Hosoma, H. (2000) What do people presup-pose in chat conversations -Timing Structureof chat and speech conversations?in Okada,M., Mishima, H.and Sasaki, M.
(eds.)
Em-bodiment and Computers, bit magazine, Kyo-ritsu Publisher, Japan, pp.339-349.
[2] Mizukami, E. and Migita, M. (2002) Order ofChat Conversations ?
Study of ConversationStructure by Interval Analysis, CognitiveStudies: Bulletin of the Japanese CognitiveScience Society, Vol.9?No.1, pp.77-88?
[3] MSN messenger ?http://messenger.microsoft.com/?
[4] Vronay, D., Smith, M., and Drucker, S.(1999) Alternative Interfaces for Chat, Proc.of the 12th Annual ACM Symposium on UserInterface Software and Technology?UIST99??
[5] Yamada, Y. Hirano, T. and Nishimoto, K.(2002) Tangible Chat: Communication of con-versation situation awareness using a sense oftouch in a key-board chat system, Tech.Report SIG-GW-43-18?Information Process-ing Society of Japan, pp.103-108?
[6] Ogura, K. and Ishizaki, M. (2002) The char-acteristics analysis about the topic change inChat Conversations ?
Tech.
Report SIG-SLUD-A202-3, Japan
