Relations between Inflectional and Derivation PatternsKarel PalaFaculty of InformaticsMasaryk University Brnopala@fi.muni.czRadek Sedla?c?ekFaculty of InformaticsMasaryk University Brnorsedlac@fi.muni.czMarek VeberFaculty of InformaticsMasaryk University Brnomara@fi.muni.czAbstractOne of the main goals of this paper isto describe a formal procedure linkinginflectional and derivational processesin Czech and to indicate that they canbe, if appropriate tools and resourcesare used, applied to other Slavonic lan-guages.
The tools developed at the NLPLaboratory FI MU, have been used,particularly the morphological analyserajka and the program I par for pro-cessing and maintaining the morpholog-ical database.1 IntroductionIn this paper we report on an exploration of therelations between inflection and word derivation(WD) in Czech.
At first the inflectional morphol-ogy has to be mentioned which deals with forma-tion of word forms by inflection, i. e. by mor-phological processes like the declension of nouns,adjectives, pronouns and numerals, the conjuga-tion of verbs, and also forming degrees of ad-jectives and adverbs.
The inflectional morphol-ogy (in Czech) is formally quite well describedand at present we have reliable software tools atour disposal that make it possible both to generateand recognise arbitrary Czech word forms.
Theyare ajka a morphological analyser and genera-tor (Sedla?c?ek and Smrz?, 2001) and I par a pro-gram for morphological database (Veber, 2002).The second area is derivational morphology,i.
e. word derivation as such ?
it describes the pro-cesses of the derivation of new words (one wordexpressions) as distinct from basic ones (wordbases).
These processes operate on the morphemelevel whose results follow from the ways of com-bining morphemes (prefixes, stems or roots, in-fixes, suffixes) using suffixation, prefixation andstem alterations (infixation).
We have to bear inmind that the consequences of these formal pro-cesses have a semantic nature.The relations between the WD processes and in-flectional morphology have been extensively stud-ied in Czech linguistic literature, see e. g. (Dokulil,1962; Karl?
?k et al, 1995; Petr, 1986) where onemay find informal descriptions of the WD pro-cesses using terms like ?fundace?
(basic deriva-tion), as well as mutation, transposition, modifi-cation, adaptation, and others.The most interesting linguistic analyses link thederivation patterns with the inflectional ones.
Forexample, in Karl?
?k (1995) it is pointed out that thenouns with the suffix -tel having agentive meaningbelong to the inflectional paradigm muz?
(man).
Inother words, it is possible to say that some inflec-tional patterns determine the sets of derivationalsuffixes forming semantically consistent groups ofnouns.In this paper we set it as our task to map the re-lations between inflectional and word derivationalpatterns.
In comparison with previous researchwe present the exploration of a large collectionof data: our stem dictionary for Czech contains385,066 items.
The association of selected in-flectional and WD patterns has been performedsemi-automatically with the tool I par and theCzech morphological database which contains allthe necessary information about the inflectionalparadigms in Czech (2,042 paradigms for all 10POS).The WD relations as they are described in thelinguistic WD theories can be, after some modifi-cations, appropriately linked to the semantic rela-tions as they are used in contemporary ontologiesand then applied within the inference engines thatform a necessary part of the natural language pro-cessing mechanisms.However, it is true that algorithmic descriptionsof WD relations have been worked out only re-cently and they do not cover the WD processes inall their complexity but just at the basic level.2 Inflectional analysisThe inflectional analysis is a part of the complexmorphemic decomposition of a word and its firsttask is to identify in a given word form the stemand ending.
If the word form is not a lemma (ba-sic form of the word) it is necessary to associatethe stem with its respective ending.It has to be kept in mind that the derivational anal-ysis deals only with lemmata and not with the in-dividual word forms.For the purpose of this work we performinflectional analysis with the tool (program)ajka (Sedla?c?ek, 1999) which is further devel-oped in the NLP Laboratory (Sedla?c?ek and Smrz?,2001) at FI MU.
It is also used as a standard toolfor lemmatization (identification of the basic wordforms) and as a morphological tagger.3 The Basic WD Relation = ?fundace?In the Czech WD theory all words belonging to agiven word stock are classified either as motivatedor non-motivated.For motivated words we are able to describetheir meaning using another word or words, e. g.cvic?is?te?
(exercising ground, drill square) is a placewhere exercising is done.
Non-motivated wordscannot be described in the same way.
Their mean-ing consists only in signifying the thing, whichis why they are sometimes called words-signs, ase.
g. stu?l (table), tra?va (grass).
Thus it is obviousthat when making WD analyses we are more inter-ested in motivated words, since only they displaythe derivational structure from which we are ableto reconstruct the process of their formation.Formation of motivated word follows the ba-sic WD relation called ?fundace?
(Dokulil, 1962).When we find the ?fundace?-relation for all moti-vated words we obtain a complex of relations thatform a hierarchical structure.
In WD theory thisstructure is usually called word derivation nest,word derivation lattice and word derivation se-quence.
Word derivation nests (WDN) will be ourprincipal focus.WDN can be defined as a set of all relatedwords that gather around a common stem.
Thecore of WDN is a root of the non-motivated wordand other words in WDN are derived from it ei-ther directly as in led (ice)?led-ovy?
(icy) or indi-rectly through another related word.
In this wayword derivation sequences are created, such as led(ice)?led-ovy?
(icy)?ledov-ec (glacier)?ledovc-ovy?
(glacial).The appropriate formal apparatus for repre-senting these relations and structures are graphs.For this purpose the special types of graphs (seeFig.
1), particularly graph-trees are used whichfurther link up into forests.
Strictly speaking weare dealing mainly with forests.The tree nodes are labelled with lemmata, andthe next node is created dependent on its predeces-sor.
The individual trees then represent the WDN,the WD unions have just one level, subtrees andsequence correspond to the paths in the graph.4 The Semantic Aspects of the Basic WDRelationThe semantic component of the ?fundace?-relation consists in the fact that meaning of?funded?
words can be derived from the mean-ing of the ?funding?
one, that they are semanti-cally linked and that language users know theserelations and use them in understanding languageand also in enriching their knowledge about theuniverse.
Thus uc?itel (teacher) je ten, kdo uc???
(isthe one who teaches), zoubek (small tooth) je maly?zub (is a tooth of small size).
The meaning thatfollows from the WD relations is usually labelledas word derivation or internal meaning.
This is arather narrow point of view, typical of linguisticWD theories, since there is no reason to introduceseparate semantic relations ?
they are the same asother semantic relations, for example the InternalLanguage Relations defined within EuroWordNet1, 2 (Vossen, 1998).For the computer processing of the word mean-ings, it is necessary to bear in mind that seman-tic relations have a common nature irrespective ofthe forms by which they are expressed.
From thispoint of view, it is obvious that there is no rele-vant difference between WD meaning and ?nor-mal?
lexical meaning as it is treated within theframework of semantic networks that are nowa-days so popular in NLP and Language Engineer-ing.
Thus WDN can be understood as semanticnetworks of a special sort that will soon becomerelevant in the area of knowledge representation.5 Word Derivation AnalysisThe purpose of WD analysis is to find out the WDstructure of the ?funded?
word by applying the ba-sic WD relation, i. e. to find out its WD base andthe respective formant (see below).WD base can be defined as the part of the?funded?
word that is taken over from the ?fund-ing?
word.
Typically it is an identical string thatoccurs in both ?funded?
and ?funding?
word ?various phonological alternations can take placehere, of course.
For example, pole (field)?pol-n??
(field-ADJ).The procedure works in the following way: anelement is added to the WD base of the word (typ-ically root or stem) and together they form a newword.
The added element is usually called formantin Czech WD theory (Dokulil, 1962) and can beformed by one or more morphemes.
A formantcan be?
a suffix kotel-na (boiler room), which classi-fies a word as belonging to a more general se-mantic group (here the Czech suffix -na withthe inflectional morpheme -a at its end cre-ates the names of places),?
the ending zka?z-a (destruction) where the in-flectional morpheme also operates as deriva-tional morpheme or the derivational mor-pheme can be considered to be empty,?
prefix s-lepit (glue back together) which justmodifies the meaning of the word but doesnot change its POS and inflectional paradigm.Compound formants are also possible, and mayconsist either of a prefix combined with suffix,e.
g. in pr???-ruc?-n??
(reference) or prefix combinedwith an ending pr?ed-me?st-??
(suburb).6 Relations between Inflection andDerivationThe data that can be found in the existing re-sources, e. g.
(Karl?
?k et al, 1995) are limited innumber ?
they contain selected examples only andshow only the main types of WD processes.
In-formation about the functional load of the individ-ual suffixes is either missing or is only outlined bymeans of expressions like ?very frequent?, ?fre-quent?, ?less frequent?
without giving any num-bers.To explore the situation more adequately weused a more representative collection of data, par-ticularly the morphological database I par to-gether with the stem dictionary which is a part ofthe morphological analyser ajka.In other words, all the items in the stem dic-tionary are associated with their respective inflec-tional paradigm(s), e. g. for nouns there are 746 in-flectional paradigms that presently cover 131,188noun stems.
The number of the noun paradigmslooks quite large but one should bear in mind thatin our algorithmic description of Czech inflectionwe deal with a detailed hierarchical subclassifica-tion of the noun paradigms which, however, is justbased on the 14 main paradigms as they are givenin standard grammars of Czech.The present data allow us to find the functionalload defined as the number of nouns with the givensuffix and particular semantic feature, e. g. agen-tive, instrument or property etc.
First we have toknow for a certain suffix how many lemmata oc-cur with the given suffix, Table 1 shows that -a?khas 1,379 occurrences.
However, it is more im-portant to know the specific semantic features thatindicate which semantic classes the nouns endingwith -a?k belong to ?
this is obtained in the pro-cess of finding which nouns belong in which in-flectional paradigms.
If we look at the tags we cansee that Czech nouns with the suffix -a?k fall intotwo large groups ?
those denoting agentives andother animate beings (total 733 nouns) and thosedenoting inanimate things such as instruments andothers (total 633, not classified 13).
In the caseof -a?k its functional load is distributed evenly.freq.
% pattern gender sem.
feature641 47.1 vlk MANIM.
agentives326 23.6 flok MINAN.263 19.1 krk MINAN.77 5.6 ?Ste?rba?k MANIM.
family names16 1.2 dupa?k MINAN.10 0.7 Azte?k MANIM.
names of tribes10 0.7 hr?iba?k MINAN.7 0.5 pulc??
?k MINAN.
names of fungi6 0.4 koza?k MINAN.5 0.4 duba?k MINAN.5 0.4 Batak MANIM.
ethnic groups13 1.0 various not classified?
1,379Table 1: SUBST MASK, suffix: -a?kfreq.
% pattern gender sem.
feature908 93.9 uc?itel MANIM.
agentives15 1.6 bez MINAN.
not classified11 1.1 mocnitel MINAN.
math.
expr.8 0.8 souc?initel MINAN.
math.
expr.7 0.7 hotel MINAN.
hotels5 0.5 c?
?l MINAN.
not classified4 0.4 stroj MINAN.
not classified4 0.4 soute?z?
FEMIN.
not classified3 0.3 obyvatel MANIM.
inhabitants2 0.2 stras?pytel MANIM.
not classified?
967Table 2: SUBST, suffix: -tel7 Rules for WD ProcessesSo far we have been talking about the derivation ofword forms in terms of morphemes, stems, roots,lemmata, etc.
More formally, WD processes em-ploy strings of letters (morphemes) carrying gram-matical and lexical information.
It can be observedthat the WD processes have quite a regular nature,thus one can express them by means of certainrules (WD patterns)WD is a hierarchically structured process,which will be reflected in the construction of therules (WD patterns) ?
we will build them as cas-cades going from simpler to more complicatedpatterns.We start from a linguist?s hypothesis which de-fines a pattern capturing the changes between theword forms and other constraints on the formof grammatical tags associated with the searchedentries.
Then we can automatically look up n-The following n-tuple has to be searched for:form POS-tag condition1.
S-zace SUBST FEM2.
S-sticky?
ADJ3.
S-sta SUBST MAS ANIMAL4.
S-smus SUBST MAS UNANIMALwhere ?S-?
is arbitrary but has to be an identicalstring for all members of the n-tupleTable 3: searching the relations, verifying hy-pothesestuples of the entries in the existing morphologicaldatabase (using the I par tool), where1.
all the members (=entries) exist in thedatabase;2. the members of n-tuple fulfil the required hy-pothesis, i. e. the changes between the stringsbelonging to the individual members of then-tuple are described in given pattern and en-tries correspond to the additional constraints.Suppose that there is an algorithm (see Sec-tion 7.1) which in the respective morphologicaldatabase will find the n-tuples (see Table 4) match-ing the hypothesis formulated by a linguist (seeTable 3).
The linguist can take the derived list ofn-tuples and determine which n-tuples are correctand which not.
The list of the positive exampleswill arise together with the list of exceptions notmatching the formulated hypothesis, e. g.
pr??
?t ?pr??
?tel, word form pr??
?tel (friend) is derived from?pr?a?t (to wish sb well)?, not ?pr??
?t se (to arguewith sb)?.It is now clear that by using a hierarchical con-nection of the new pattern to the original one (forthe individual members of the n-tuple) it is pos-sible to derive from a single entry not only theneighbouring entries in the n-tuple but also otherword forms (generated from the entries includedin the n-tuple by means of the respective originalpatterns).If the changes in the word form put into effectby the (new) pattern express1 a well-defined se-mantic relation, the entries can be ?virtualized?,1for the newly generated word form it is also possible toderive algorithmically (infer) lexical meaning1st member 2nd member 3rd member 4th memberPatterns: ru?z?e otrocky?
P husita P komunismusrealizace realisticky?
realista realismuscentralizace centralisticky?
centralista centralismushumanizace humanisticky?
humanista humanismusidealizace idealisticky?
idealista idealismuskomunizace komunisticky?
komunista komunismus.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.Patterns: ru?z?e staror?ecky?
P husita P komunismusromanizace romanisticky?
romanista romantismusspiritualizace spiritualisticky?
spiritualista spiritualismussynchronizace synchronisticky?
synchronista synchronismuskolektivizace kolektivisticky?
kolektivista kolektivismusmodernizace modernisticky?
modernista modernismus.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.Table 4: searching of the relations, verifying hypotheses, outputthus we do not need to keep all entries in the lex-icon but only those entries which are basic (moti-vating) word forms for the neighbouring entries ofthe found n-tuples.The entries that are thereby eliminated from thelexicon can be constructed according to the newpattern from the basic (motivating) word form.The original word forms can be determined algo-rithmically and their original lexical meaning canbe inferred as well.We will reduce the lexicon using the descriptionof the WD process which yields the predictablechanges in the semantics of the derived entries.The WD process can be illustrated by the Fig.
1.It can be seen that the sub-entries humanizace (hu-manisation), humanisticky (humanistically ADV),humanisticky?
(humanistic ADJ), humanistc?in (hu-manist?s FEM POSS ADJ), humanistka (human-ist FEM), humanistu?v (humanist?s MAS POSSADJ), humanista (humanist MAS), humanismus(humanism), can be assigned:1. either to the respective infl.
paradigms:humanizace:ru?z?ehumanisticky:otrockyhumanisticky?:otrocky?humanistc?in:matc?inhumanistka:matkahumanistu?v:otcu?vhumanista:husitahumanismus:komunismus2.
or to:humanizace:ru?z?ehumanisticky?:otrocky?
Phumanista:husita Phumanismus:komunismus3.
or to a deriv.
pattern (meta-pattern):humanismus:komunismus PIn the second and third cases, the reductionof the lexicon can be observed.
The patternkomunismus P derives the word forms by ex-changing the string at the end of the basic (moti-vating) word form:smus ?
zace, sticky, sta, smusand the corresponding change of the attributes ofthe constructed tag.For an implementation of these WD patterns, aparallel with Finite State Automata (FST) is use-ful.
The property of chaining (Roche and Schabes,1997) is very suitable here ?
it allows us to buildWD patterns as hierarchical modules.
This prop-erty makes it possible to limit the duplicity of thestored information and increase their lucidity.7.1 WD Relation MiningWe explained how to extend the morphologicaldatabase employing the regular changes of wordforms that can be observed in the course of theWD processes (Osolsobe?
et al, 2002).
We haveshown that if the WD processes are described bythe rules it is possible to reduce our stem dictio-nary and eventually to obtain a dictionary of roots.To make the process of searching for the dis-crete description of WD processes simpler wehave implemented an algorithm that looks up therelations between the strings corresponding to theindividual entries in the morphological database.The input for the algorithm is a description ofthe variations of the individual word forms to-gether with conditions placed on the attributes ofthe respective grammatical tags.komunismus Phumani?smuskomunismushumanismushusita Phumanist?ahusitahumanistaotcu?vhumanistu?vmatka Phumanist?kamatkahumanistkamatc?inhumanistc?inotrocky?
Phumanistick?y?otrocky?humanisticky?otrockyhumanistickyru?z?ehumanizace.......................................................................smus..........................sta..................................a...........................u?v...................................ka .....................................ka.........................c?in.........................sticky..................y?..................y.......................................................................zaceFigure 1: Using the derivational pattern to reduce the stem dictionaryTo describe the variations of the word forms wewill use:?
variables $1, $2, .
.
.
(values ?
??),?
constants / ?affixes?
: A1,1, A1,2, .
.
.
?
???
concatenation operator ??
strings Si ?
{Ai,1, Ai,2, .
.
.$1,$2, .
.
.}??
conditions ?
constraints on the values ofgiven attributes, eventually a determinationwhether the given word form has to bepresent in the database: C1, C2, .
.
.7.1.1 InputThe task assumes:?
n .
.
.
number of the word forms searched for,?
n-tuple: (S1, C1) .
.
.
(Sn, Cn).The Si strings should be written in such a wayso as not to contain the pairs constant ?
constant,variable ?
variable standing adjacent.?
two neighbouring constants can be mergedinto one?
two variables can be separated by  constant(empty string).?
if the variable at beginning is required, or atthe end of the string, then we set Ai,1, or Ai,m?
Each string Si thus can be given without loosingany generality in the following way:Si ?
Ai,1 ?
$1?Ai,2 ?
$2?Ai,3 ?
.
.
.?
$m?Ai,m+1 (1)We know that Ai,j are constants and $j vari-ables which can take values from ??.
For an arbi-trary string Si, a regular grammar can be written(see Eq.
2).S ?
Ai,1$1N1N1 ?
Ai,2$2N2.
.
.Nm ?
Ai,m+1$1| .
.
.
|$m ?
EE ?
a|aE|b|bE| .
.
.where E ?
??
(2)It can be seen that for each string Si a non-deterministic transducer can be constructed thattakes a word form on the input and on the output,it produces a set of all acceptable evaluations ofthe variables $1 .
.
.$m, i. e. a set (possibly empty)of the m-tuples of members of set ?
?.7.1.2 The AlgorithmFirst we have to select the pairs (Si, Ci) forwhich the requirement in the condition states thattheir corresponding word forms have to occur inthe database.
Those word forms, strings and pairswill be called located.
The word forms that wecan determine from the located ones after substi-tution values for the variables in the strings will belabelled as inferred.We can speak here about free and bound occur-rences of the variables.
Free variables will be de-termined during the computation of the same au-tomaton in which they take place.
Bound vari-ables are dependent on the computation of otherautomata.
The values are instantiated for boundvariables before the computing the automaton inwhich the variables occur.
Thus we can work withthem in a given automaton as with the constants ?this simplifies the automaton.When a given word form is accepted by thetransducer (for string Si) we obtain the respectiveevaluation variables included in Si as an output.
Ifthe same variables occur also in other strings theycan be substituted (instantiated) by the values.Thus step by step we will construct the respec-tive FS automata for located strings Si using theinstantiation of the variables.
If the automatondoes not contain any free variables it is obviousthat the respective pair is inferred (it can be lo-cated at the same time) ?
these will be labelled asinferred+located).The order in which the individual automata willbe applied can be optimised.
A certain part of thestate space being searched can be eliminated in ad-vance based on conditions Ci, i. e. it is enoughto search/eliminate entries associated with the pat-terns which guarantee/eliminate some attributes ofthe tag.We suppose that by means of located strings allthe variables used in the inferred strings can be in-stantiated in such a way that we will be able to de-termine correctly inferred word forms relying onlyon the knowledge of the located word forms, i. e.in the cases where the inferred strings do not con-tain free variables.
In the opposite case the algo-rithm has to stop prematurely.The optimisation will determine the order inwhich the individual automata containing freevariables will be applied.We will start with the first automaton followingthe order determined by the optimisation.
Step bystep we will go through all the entries and thenfor all possible evaluations we will instantiate thevariables and continue with searching the entriesacceptable for the next automaton (according tothe given ordering), i. e. we look for the next ele-ment of the respective n-tuple.If we succeed in the instantiation of all vari-ables and determine all inferred word forms and ifall inferred+located word forms are found in thedatabase then the currently determined n-tuple canbe sent to the output.8 The First Results from our DataTable 5 displays the individual steps taken dur-ing forming the respective WD nest.
The step A(see Table 5) consisted in the derivation of mas-culine possessives using suffix -u?v.
It is obviousthat this derivation is regular, the number of lem-mata has not changed ?
all of them have been as-signed to the paradigm for the possessives otcu?v(father?s).
In the step B the gender of noun ischanged from masculine to feminine using suf-fix -ka.
Moreover, in this step the paradigmsneume?tel a Koca?b nM have been removed.
Alsothe number of lemmata assigned to the paradigmuc?itel (teacher) has been reduced to half, i. e. from908 to 454.
This means that according to our data(our morphological database) half of the agentivescannot form the feminine counterpart and this re-sult can be expected to be confirmed by examin-ing a larger corpus.
The step C is again regu-lar ?
it consists in the derivation of feminine pos-sessives using suffix -in with a number of lem-mata not being changed.
In the step D the ad-jectives are formed by means of suffix -sky?
andthis process is less regular.
From the possible 454lemmata belonging to the paradigm uc?itel the ad-jectives are derived only from 113+21+16=150.Moreover, these adjectives split into three adjec-tive paradigms praz?sky?
(Prague), spolec?ensky?
(so-cial) and kremz?sky?
(Crems) depending on whetherthey form a comparative and adverb or not.
Thefollowing step is again regular ?
it involves thederivation of adverbs from adjectives by shorten-ing the last vowel from y?
to y.
It can be seenthat from the adjectives belonging to the paradigmkremz?sky?
such adverbs cannot be formed at all.The step E is irregular as well and it involves thederivation of the nouns from the respective adjec-tives by replacing the suffix -sky?
for -stv?
?.9 ConclusionsThe purpose of the paper is to show how se-lected word derivation relations in Czech can bedescribed using the morphological analyser ajkaand the program I par which works with theCzech morphological database.
The Czech datanecessary for this description are: stem dictionaryused by ajka containing 385,066 Czech stems908 uc?itel,otcu?v3 obyvatel,otcu?v2 pr??
?tel,otcu?v1 neume?tel,otcu?v1 Koca?b nM,otcu?vA?454 uc?itel,otcu?v,matka2 obyvatel,otcu?v,matka2 pr??
?tel,otcu?v,matka B?454 uc?itel,otcu?v,matka,matc?in2 obyvatel,otcu?v,matka,matc?in2 pr??
?tel,otcu?v,matka,matc?inC ?113 uc?itel,otcu?v,matka,matc?in,praz?sky?,praz?sky21 uc?itel,otcu?v,matka,matc?in,spolec?ensky?,spolec?ensky2 obyvatel,otcu?v,matka,matc?in,praz?sky?,praz?skyD?113 uc?itel,otcu?v,matka,matc?in,praz?sky?21 uc?itel,otcu?v,matka,matc?in,spolec?ensky?16 uc?itel,otcu?v,matka,matc?in,kremz?sky?2 obyvatel,otcu?v,matka,matc?in,praz?sky?E ?46 uc?itel,otcu?v,matka,matc?in,praz?sky?,praz?sky,staven?
?19 uc?itel,otcu?v,matka,matc?in,spolec?ensky?,spolec?ensky,staven?
?Table 5: WD nest for -telbelonging to the 10 parts of speech, the Czechmorphological database comprising 2,042 inflec-tional paradigms and the set of the Czech suffixesmentioned in this paper (-tel, -a?k, -u?v, -ka, -in,-sky?, -cky?, -sky, -cky, -stv?
?, -ismus, -ista, -izace).Within this task we also demonstrated, using theselected examples, how the inflectional paradigmscan be employed to create more general but lessregular word derivation patterns, how both can belinked together and how WD patterns can be usedto describe the selected WD processes in an algo-rithmic way.
This we regard as a relevant contribu-tion to the theory.
In our opinion these examplesare general enough to show that the whole WDsystem for Czech can be grasped successfully inthis way.In this research we are working with Czech dataonly, but we firmly believe that if similar data forRussian, Slovak, Croatian or Serbian etc., weresupplied similar results would be arrived at.
It is,of course, obvious that different WD rules have tobe formulated for other Slavonic languages but if asimilar system of inflectional paradigms were usedand the corresponding groups of suffixes as well,using tools like ajka and I par would enablethe mapping of word derivation relations accord-ingly.The continuation of this research will lead tobuilding a Czech Derivation Dictionary integratedwith WD rules and thus later yielding a WD au-tomaton for Czech.AcknowledgementThis work was supported by Ministry of Educa-tion, Research Program CEZ:J07/98:143300003.ReferencesMilos?
Dokulil.
1962.
Tvor?en??
slov v c?es?tine?
1 (WordDerivation in Czech).
Nakladatelstv??
?CSAV, Praha.In Czech.Petr Karl?
?k, Marek Nekula, and Zdenka Rus??nova?.1995.
Pr???ruc?n??
mluvnice c?es?tiny (Reference Gram-mar of Czech).
Nakladatelstv??
Lidove?
noviny, Praha.In Czech.Lauri Karttunen and Kent Wittenburg.
1983.
A Two-Level Morphological Analysis of English.
In TexasLinguistic Forum, volume 22, pages 217?228.Kla?ra Osolsobe?, Karel Pala, Radek Sedla?c?ek, andMarek Veber.
2002.
A Procedure for Word Deriva-tional Processes Concerning Lexicon Extension inHighly Inflected Languages.
In Proceedings of theConference LREC2002, volume 3, pages 998?1003,Las Palmas, May 29-31.
ELRA.Jan Petr.
1986.
Mluvnice c?es?tiny II.
(Grammar ofCzech).
Academia, Praha.
In Czech.Emmanuel Roche and Yves Schabes, editors.
1997.Finite-State Language Processing.
MIT Press.Radek Sedla?c?ek.
1999.
Morfologicky?
analyza?torc?es?tiny (Morphological Analyser of Czech).
Mas-ter?s thesis, FI MU, Brno.
In Czech.Radek Sedla?c?ek and Pavel Smrz?.
2001.
A New CzechMorphological Analyser ajka.
In Proceedings ofTSD 2001, pages 100?107, Berlin.
Springer-Verlag.Marek Veber.
2002.
Na?stroje pro textove?
korpusy amorfologicke?
databa?ze (Tools for Text Corpora andMorphological Databases).
Ph.D. thesis, FI MU,Brno.
In Czech.Piek Vossen.
1998.
Set of Common Base Concepts inEuroWordNet-2.
Technical Report 2D001, Depart-ment of Computational Linguistics, Amsterodam,October.
