Some Aspects of the Morphological Processing of BulgarianMilena SlavchevaLinguistic Modelling DepartmentCentral Laboratory for Parallel ProcessingBulgarian Academy of Sciences25A, Acad.
G. Bonchev St, 1113 Sofia, Bulgariamilena@lml.bas.bgAbstractThis paper demonstrates the modellingof morphological knowledge in Bulgar-ian and applications of the created datasets in an integrated framework for pro-duction and manipulation of languageresources.
The production scenario isexemplified by the Bulgarian verb as themorphologically richest and most prob-lematic part-of-speech category.
Thedefinition of the set of morphosyntacticspecifications for verbs in the lexicon isdescribed.
The application of the tagsetin the automatic morphological analy-sis of text corpora is accounted for.
AType Model of Bulgarian verbs handlingthe attachment of short pronominal ele-ments to verbs, is presented.1 IntroductionThe morphological processing of languages is in-dispensable for most applications in Human Lan-guage Technology.
Usually, morphological mod-els and their implementations are the primarybuilding blocks in NLP systems.The development of the computational mor-phology of a given language has two main stages.The first stage is the building of the morphologi-cal database itself.
The second stage includes ap-plications of the morphological database in differ-ent processing tasks.
The interaction and mutualprediction between the two stages determines thelinguistic and computational decision-making ofeach stage.Bulgarian computational morphology has de-veloped as the result of local (Paskaleva et al1993; Popov et al 1998) and international activ-ities for the compilation of sets of morphosyntac-tic distinctions and the construction of electroniclexicons (Dimitrova et al 1998).
The need forsynchronization and standardization has lead tothe activities of the application to Bulgarian ofinternationally acknowledged guidelines for mor-phosyntactic annotation (Slavcheva and Paskaleva1997), and to the comparison of morphosyntactictagsets (Slavcheva 1997).In this paper I demonstrate the production sce-nario of modelling morphological knowledge inBulgarian and applications of the created data setsin an integrated framework for production and ma-nipulation of language resources, that is, the Bul-TreeBank framework (Simov et al 2002).
Theproduction scenario is exemplified by the Bulgar-ian verb as the morphologically richest and mostproblematic part-of-speech category.
The defini-tion of the set of morphosyntactic specificationsfor verbs in the lexicon is described.
The ap-plication of the tagset in the automatic morpho-logical analysis of text corpora is accounted for.Special attention is drawn to the attachment ofshort pronominal elements to verbs.
This is a phe-nomenon difficult to handle in language process-ing due to its intermediate position between mor-phology and syntax proper.The paper is structured as follows.
In section2 the principles of building the latest version ofa Bulgarian tagset are pointed out and the subsetof the tagset for verbs is exhaustively presented.Section 3 is dedicated to a specially worked outtypology of Bulgarian verbs which is suitable forhandling the problematic verb forms.2 Morphosyntactic Specifications forVerbs As a Subset of a BulgarianTagset2.1 Principles of Tagset ConstructionThe set of morphosyntactic specifications forverbs is a subset of the tagset (Simov, Slavcheva,Osenova 2002) used within the BulTreeBankframework (Simov et al 2002) for morphologi-cal analysis of Bulgarian texts.
A tagset for anno-tating real-world texts can be divided into severalsubsets according to the types of text units:1.
Tags attached to single word tokens.
(Theseare the common words in the vocabulary:nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs, pronouns,prepositions, etc.)2.
Tags attached to multi-word tokens.
(Mostof them are conjunctions having analyticalstructure, but also some indefinite pronouns,etc.)3.
Tags attached to abbreviations.4.
Tags attached to named entities which are ofvarious types: person names, topological en-tities, etc.
; film titles, company names, etc.
;formulas, single letters, citations of words asused in scientific texts.5.
Tags for punctuation.The above groups of tags belong to three bigdivisions of tag types.
The tags in items 1 and 2above include annotation of linguistic items thatbelong to what is accepted to be a common dic-tionary.
The tags in items 3 and 4 contain annota-tion of linguistic units that name, generally speak-ing, different kinds of realities and entities.
Theyare peculiarities of the unrestricted, real-life texts.Item 5 refers to the annotation of linguistic itemsthat serve as text formatters.
The subject of discus-sion in this paper is a tagset of the first type, thatis, morphosyntactic information attached to wordsas dictionary units.As pointed above, the tagset for Bulgarian isconstructed on the basis of the long term experi-ence acquired in local and international initiativesfor the compilation of core sets of morphosyntac-tic distinctions and the construction of electroniclexicons.The EAGLES principle of levels of the mor-phosyntactic annotation is used but it is, so to say,localized.
That means that while the EAGLES an-notation schemes are constructed for the simulta-neous application to many languages, in the tagsetdescribed here, the principle of levels is consis-tently applied for structuring the morphosyntacticinformation attached to each part of speech (POS)category in a single language, that is, Bulgarian.The principle of levels is applied in the EAGLESmulti-lingual environment as follows.
The elabo-ration of the tags starts with the encoding of themost general information which is applicable to abig range of languages (e.g., the languages spokenin the European Union).
It continues with structur-ing the morphosyntactic information that is con-sidered more or less common to a smaller groupof languages.
Finally, the single language-specificinformation is added to the tags.
In the monolin-gual tagset for Bulgarian this scheme of informa-tion levels is used for the POS categories.The next underlying structuring principle thatis used in the Bulgarian tagset is that of MUL-TEXT and MULTEXT-East for ordering the infor-mation by defining numbered slots in the tags forthe value of each grammatical feature and leavingthe slot unoccupied if the feature is not relevantin a given tag.
Again, in a multi-lingual environ-ment, the MULTEXT ordering of the grammaticalcategories is simultaneously applied to a bunch oflanguages, while in the Bulgarian tagset it is ap-plied to one and the same POS category of Bul-garian.
The ordering of the information starts withthe POS category and follows a scale of general-ity where the more general lexeme features (e.g.type, aspect of the verb) precede the grammati-cal features describing the wordform (e.g.
person,number of verb forms).The tagset is defined so that the necessary andenough information is attached to the word tokensaccording to the following factors:?
The information is attached on the morpho-logical level (that is, stemming from the lexi-con).?
The information is attached to running wordsin the text (and here is the tricky interplay ofform and function of the lexical items).?
There is potential for interfacing this infor-mation with the next levels of linguistic rep-resentation like, for instance, syntax (that iswhy we speak about morphosyntactic anno-tation).?
When defining the specifications in the tags,the levels of linguistic representation (i.e.,morphology, syntax, semantics, and prag-matics) are kept distinct as much as possi-ble.
That means that the underlying princi-ple is to provide information for the lexicalitems thinking about them as dictionary units.In connection to the latter principle, anotherprinciple is defined, that is, whenever possi-ble, the formal morphological analyses of thelexical items are taken into account, ratherthan the assignment of functional categoriesto them, which is the task of the successivelevels of linguistic interpretation and repre-sentation.2.2 Format of the TagsetThe information encoded in the morphosyntacticannotation is represented as sets of feature-valuepairs.
The tags are lists of values of the grammati-cal features describing the wordforms.
The formatof the tags is a string of symbols (letters, digits orhyphens) where for each value there is one singlesymbol that denotes it.
The first symbol is a cap-ital letter denoting the POS category.
The rest ofthe string is a mixture of small letters, digits or hy-phens.
The letters or digits denote the values ofthe features describing a lexical item.
The hyphenmeans that a given feature is irrelevant for a givenlexical item.
The hyphen preserves the ordering ofthe values of features in the tag string by denotinga position.
In case the hyphen or hyphens comelast in the tag string, that is, no symbol followsthem, they are omitted.2.3 Specifications for the VerbThe grammatical features which are encoded inthe verb tagset have ordered positions in the tagstrings as shown bellow.1:POS, 2:Verb type, 3:Aspect, 4:Transitiv-ity, 5:Clitic attachment, 6:Verb form/Mood,7:Voice, 8:Tense, 9:Person, 10:Number, 11:Gen-der, 12:DefinitenessAll the descriptions below are in the form oftriples where the first element is the name of thegrammatical feature, the second element is thevalue of the grammatical feature and the third ele-ment is the abbreviation used in the tag string.The feature-value pairs describing the verb cat-egory are distributed in three levels.
The first levelof feature-value pairs represents the most generalcategory, that is, the part of speech.
[POS, verb, V]The second level of description includes fea-tures whose values provide the invariant informa-tion for a given wordform, that is, the informationstemming from the lexeme.
This is the informa-tion used for the generation of the appropriate typeand number of paradigm elements for a given lex-eme.
For the verb the second level features are:Verb type, Aspect, Transitivity, Clitic attachment.Combinations of those features denote subclassesof verbs.
The features, their values, and the abbre-viations are given in the following descriptions.
[Verb type, personal, p][Verb type, impersonal, n][Verb type, auxiliary, x][Verb type, semi-impersonal, s][Aspect, imperfective, i][Aspect, perfective, p][Aspect, dual, d][Transitivity, transitive, t][Transitivity, intransitive, i][Clitic attachment, none, 0][Clitic attachment, mandatory ?se?, 1][Clitic attachment, mandatory ?si?, 2][Clitic attachment, mandatory acc.pron., 3][Clitic attachment, mandatory dat.pron., 4][Clitic attachment, mandatory dat.pron.+se, 5][Clitic attachment, optional ?se?, 6][Clitic attachment, optional ?si?, 7]The values of the third level features define thevariant information for a given word form, that is,the grammatical information carried by the vari-ous inflections.
This is the level of most specificinformation.
The third level features for the verbare: Verb form/Mood, Voice, Tense, Person, Num-ber, Gender, Definiteness.
[Verb form/Mood, Finite indicative, f][Verb form/Mood, Finite imperative, z][Verb form/Mood, Finite conditional, u][Verb form/Mood, Non-finite participle, c][Verb form/Mood, Non-finite gerund, g][Voice, active, a][Voice, passive, v][Tense, present, r][Tense, aorist, o][Tense, imperfect, m][Tense, past, t][Person, first, 1][Person, second, 2][Person, third, 3][Number, singular, s][Number, plural, p][Gender, masculine, m][Gender, feminine, f][Gender, neuter, n][Definiteness, indefinite, i][Definiteness, definite, d][Definiteness, Short definite form, h][Definiteness, Full definite form, f]3 Type Model of Bulgarian Verbs and itsApplication in Lexicon ConstructionThe type model is the underlying factor in defin-ing the morphosyntactic schemes for verbs and thescheme transformations necessary in different ap-plications.
Four initial Verb Types are defined:personal, impersonal, semi-personal and auxil-iary.
The definition of the types is triggered bythe necessity to determine the relevant and opti-mal combinations of second level features whichgenerate the correct paradigms of verbs belong-ing to the respective verb type.
A decisive fac-tor for the typology is the combination of verbswith short pronominal elements.
It is necessaryto differentiate, from one side, the attachment ofshort pronominals as an integral part of the lexemefor some groups of verbs (and consequently to thewhole paradigm), and, on the other hand, the gen-eration of combinations between verb forms andshort pronominals when grammatical structures ofvarious meanings come out.At this point it should be noted that theelectronic lexicon that is used for automaticmorphosyntactic annotation in the BulTreeBankframework (Popov et al 1998) follows the tra-ditional, ?paper-dictionary?
subcategorization ofverbs into personal, impersonal and auxiliary.Also the morphological analyzer identifies onlysingle word tokens, that is, strings of symbols be-tween white spaces.
Orthographically, the shortpronominal elements in Bulgarian are always sep-arate word tokens and change their place aroundthe verb according to language-specific phonolog-ical rules.
In such a way, the full Type Modelwhich takes into account the pronominal elementsis, so to say, ?switched off?.
It can be easily?switched on?, since the full Type Model cate-gories are subsets of the categories belonging tothe model applied at present.
In the BulTree-bank tagset the slot for the values of the featureClitic attachment is filled by a hyphen, that is, thesubcategorization according to the attachment ofshort pronominals is switched off, but it is easilyrecoverable when required.Now let us consider the full Type Model properand the templates of morphosyntactic specifica-tions defined by the possible combinations of sec-ond level features, that is, features describingthe invariant, lexeme information.
The full TypeModel is already applied in practice in the paradig-matic dimension of lexicon construction: 17909Bulgarian verbs have been classified according tothe model (Slavcheva 2002a).3.1 Type Personal VerbsThe greatest number of verbs belong to this type.The personal verbs have a full paradigm of in-flected forms.
The number of the paradigmmembers depends on the features Aspect andTransitivity.
The possible values of the fea-ture Clitic attachment are: none, mandatory se,mandatory si.
In the working variant of the dictio-nary there exist the values optional se, optional siwhich are used for the generation of verb lexemescontaining a reflexive formant (i.e., se or si).The combination between a personal verb andthe short accusative reflexive pronominal elementse defines the following classes of verbs:1.
Intransitive verbs with obligatory accusativereflexive element se (e.g., usmihvam se?smile?
), which have no correlates without se.2.
So called medium verbs (e.g., karam se?quarrel?)
which have correlates without se(e.g., karam ?drive?)
but the meaning of twocorrelates is quite different.
The short reflex-ive pronoun is not interchangeable with thefull form of the reflexive pronoun sebe si.3.
Verbs denoting a reciprocal action (e.g., biase ?fight?).4.
Verbs that can be defined as reflexive per se,that is, the subject and the object of the ac-tion coincide.
The subject is prevailingly an-imate.
The interesting linguistic fact aboutthose verbs is that, theoretically and logi-cally, the alternation of short and full formsof the accusative reflexive pronoun is possi-ble, but in reality the usage of the full formis communicatively very strongly marked andis not common at all.
This fact supports theassumption that the combination between averb and the short reflexive se is lexicalized(e.g., aboniram ?subscribe smb.?
/ aboniramse ?subscribe self?
).The combination between a personal verb andthe short dative reflexive pronominal element sidefines the following classes of verbs:1.
Transitive and intransitive verbs with oblig-atory dative reflexive element si (e.g., vao-braziavam si ?imagine?
), which have no cor-relates without si.2.
Medium verbs (e.g., tragvam si ?go home?
)which have correlates without si (e.g., trag-vam ?go?)
but the meaning of two correlatesis quite different.3.2 Type Impersonal VerbsThe verbs belonging to this class have the small-est paradigm: the finite forms are only in thethird person singular, and the participles are onlyin the neuter singular.
The attribute Transitiv-ity is irrelevant for the impersonal verbs.
Thepossible values of the feature Clitic attachmentare: none, mandatory acc pers pron, manda-tory dat pers pron, mandatory dat pers pron+se,mandatory se.
The combination between an im-personal verb and the short pronominals results inthe following classes:1.
Impersonal verbs without short pronominals(e.g., samva ?dawn?).2.
Impersonal verbs with se, which are formalvariants of some verbs belonging to class 1,that is, there is no difference in the meaning(e.g., samva se ?dawn?).3.
Impersonal verbs with obligatory short ac-cusative personal pronoun, short dative per-sonal pronoun or short dative personal pro-noun + se (e.g., marzi me ?to be lazy?,dozsaliava mi ?to feel pitty?, gadi mi se ?tofeel sick?).
The verbs in this class have nocorrelated forms of personal verbs withoutpronominals.4.
Impersonal verbs with short pronominals,which have correlated forms of personalverbs without short pronominals, but the at-tachment of the pronominals changes themeaning and triggers the differentiation of in-dependent verb lexemes of impersonal verbswith pronominals (e.g, trese ?shake?
/ treseme ?be in a fever?, struva ?cost?
/ struva mise ?it appears to me?
).3.3 Type Semi-personal VerbsThe definition of this innovative type of verbs istriggered by the idiosyncracies of the paradigm,the argument structure and the obligatory attach-ment of short personal pronouns.
The verbs in thisclass have features in common both with the per-sonal and the impersonal verbs and it is most con-venient to isolate them in a separate class.
Thesemi-personal verbs resemble the personal verbsin having a much bigger paradigm compared to theimpersonal ones.
In fact, forms in the first and sec-ond person singular and plural are not used (e.g,vali ?to rain?, boli me ?it hurts me?).
The semi-personal verbs can form sentences which struc-turally coincide with sentences of personal verbs,that is, they have a full-fledged subject, but the setof nouns that can occupy the subject position israther small, hence the argument structure is ratherspecific.
(E.g., Valiat porojni dazsdove.
?Heavyrains fall.?
Krakata me boliat.
?My legs hurtme.?)
The semi-personal verbs have also featuresin common with the impersonal verbs.
They havethe same possible combinations with the shortpronominals as the impersonal verbs have.
Thefeature Transitivity is irrelevant, as it is with theimpersonal verbs.
The subcategorization of thesemi-personal verbs is analogous to that of the im-personal verbs (see items 1-4 for the impersonalverbs above).3.4 Type Auxiliary VerbsThe small number of auxiliary verbs have an id-iosyncratic paradigm.
The features Aspect, Tran-sitivity and Clitic attachment are irrelevant forthem.4 Conclusion and Further DevelopmentIn section 3, the application of the verb TypeModel in a paradigmatic dimension has been con-sidered.
A very important practical issue is howthe morphosyntactic information encoded in thesecond level features (i.e., the lexeme informa-tion) can be used in a syntagmatic dimension, thatis, pattern recognition and annotation in runningtexts.
The issue of crucial importance is the uti-lization of the Clitic attachment information.Within the BulTreebank framework, a cascadedregular grammar has been built for the segmenta-tion, pattern recognition and category assignmentof Bulgarian compound verb forms as linguisticentities in XML documents (Slavcheva 2002b).
Inthe segmentation model, the short pronominals areincluded into the compound verb forms of all typesof verbs which consist of different combinationsamong short pronominals, particles and auxiliaryverbs.
At present the grammar for parsing com-pound verb forms does not discriminate betweencliticized verb forms which are lexemes per se andcliticized verb forms which are purely grammati-cal.
Thus an immediate application of the TypeModel and the data set of approximately 18000subcategorized verbs would be the construction ofa discriminating parser for the different types ofcliticized verb forms.
In its turn, this more de-tailed morphosyntactic differentiation can be usedas a source for predictions of the valency frame al-ternations in a machine-aided construction of thesyntactic structure of sentences.5 AcknowledgmentThe work presented in this paper is supported bythe BulTreebank project, funded by the Volkswa-gen Foundation, Federal Republic of Germany,under the Programme ?Cooperation with Naturaland Engineering Scientists in Central and EasternEurope?, contract I/76887.ReferencesDimitrova, L., Erjavec, T., Ide, N., Kaalep, H.J.,Petkevic?, V., Tufis?, D. (1998) ?Multext-East: Par-allel and Comparable Corpora and Lexicons for SixCentral and Eastern European Languages.?
In Pro-ceedings of COLING-ACL?98, Montre?al, Que?bec,Canada, pp.315-319.Paskaleva, E., Simov, K., Damova, M., Slavcheva, M.(1993) ?The Long Journey from the Core to the RealSize of a Large LDB?.
In Proceedings of ACL Work-shop ?Acquisition of Lexical Knowledge from Text?,Columbus, Ohio, pp.161-169.Popov, D., Simov, K., Vidinska, S. (1998) Dictionaryof Writing, Pronunciation and Punctuation of Bul-garian.
Atlantis LK, Sofia.Simov, K., Peev, Z., Kouylekov, M., Simov, A., Dim-itrov, M., Kiryakov, A.
(2001) ?CLaRK - an XML-based System for Corpora Development.?
In Pro-ceedings of the Corpus Linguistics 2001 Conference,pp.558-560.Simov, K., P. Osenova, M. Slavcheva, S. Kolhovska, E.Balabanova, D. Doikov, K. Ivanova, A. Simov, M.Kouylekov.
(2002) ?Building a Linguistically Inter-preted Corpus of Bulgarian: the BulTreeBank.?
InProceedings of LREC 2002, Canary Islands, Spain,pp.1729-1736.Simov, K., Slavcheva, M., Osenova, P. (2002) ?Bul-TreeBank Morphosyntactic Tagset.?
BulTreeBankReport, Sofia, Bulgaria.Slavcheva, M. (1997) ?A Comparative Representa-tion of Two Bulgarian Morphosyntactic Tagsetsand the EAGLES Encoding Standard?, TELRI ICOPERNICUS Concerted Action 1202, WorkingGroup 3 ?Morphosyntactic Annotation?, Report.http://www.lml.bas.bg/projects/BG-EUstand/Slavcheva, M. (2002a) ?Language Technology andBulgarian Language - Classificational Model of theVerb?.
In Proceedings of the Conference ?Slavisticsin 21 Century.
Traditions and Expectations.
?, SE-MASH Publishing House, Sofia, Bulgaria, pp.240-247 (in Bulgarian).Slavcheva, M. (2002b) ?Segmentation Layers in theGroup of the Predicate: a Case Study of Bulgarianwithin the BulTreeBank Framework?.
In Proceed-ings of the International Workshop ?Treebanks andLinguistic Theories?, Sozopol, Bulgaria, pp.199-209.Slavcheva, M., Paskaleva, E. (1997) ?Application toBulgarian.
A contribution to the EAGLES Synop-sis and Comparison of Morphosyntactic Phenom-ena Encoded in Lexicons and Corpora.
A Com-mon Proposal and Applications to European Lan-guages.?
TELRI I COPERNICUS Concerted Action1202, Working Group 3 ?Morphosyntactic Anno-tation?, Report.
http://www.lml.bas.bg/projects/BG-EUstand/eagles/index.html
