Encoding information on metaphoric expressionsin WordNet-like resources*Antonietta AlongeSezione di LinguisticaFacolt?
di Lettere e FilosofiaUniversit?
di PerugiaPiazza Morlacchi, 11Perugia 06100 - ITALYantoalonge@libero.itMargherita CastelliSezione di LinguisticaFacolt?
di Lettere e FilosofiaUniversit?
di PerugiaPiazza Morlacchi, 11Perugia 06100 - ITALYcastelli@unipg.itAbstractIn this paper we address the issue of theencoding of information on metaphors ina WordNet-like database, i.e.
the Italianwordnet in EuroWordNet (ItalWordNet).When analysing corpus data we find ahuge number of metaphoric expressionswhich can be hardly dealt with by usingas reference database ItalWordNet.
Inparticular, we have compared informationcontained both in dictionaries of Italianand in ItalWordNet with actual uses ofwords found in a corpus.
We thus putforward proposals to enrich a resourcelike ItalWordNet with relevant informa-tion.1 IntroductionLexical resources are a fundamental part of naturallanguage processing systems and many researchprojects in the last decades have been devoted tobuild them.
Notwithstanding, work is still neededto envisage what information should be encoded inwhich resource, and how, in order to deal with thecentral problem of word sense disambiguation.As becomes clear when analysing textual cor-pora, novel uses of words occur frequently and, inparticular, metaphoric new uses of them.
Re-sources which simply list the differentpolysemous senses of a word without saying any-thing about how they relate to each other are notuseful in such cases.
One such resource is Word-Net (WN), together with its ?relative-resource?, i.e.EuroWordNet (EWN).1In this paper we start by briefly recalling thetheory of metaphor as a cognitive rather than a lin-guistic phenomenon, proposed by Lakoff andJohnson (1980) and Lakoff (1993), that hasspawned a variety of research in various fieldsconnected with the study of language.2 Then, wetake into analysis examples of words displayingmetaphorical sense extensions and discuss datafrom the Italian wordnet in EWN (ItalWordNet -* The present paper is the outcome of a collaborative effort.For the specific concerns of the Italian Academy only, A.Alonge is responsible for sections 3 and 4; M. Castelli forsections 1, 2, and 5.1 EWN is a multilingual database developed within the ho-monymous project carried out in the EC Language Engineer-ing  programme (LE-4003 and LE-8328).
Within the project,WordNet-like databases for various European languages weredeveloped, connected by means of an Interlingual-Index.Complete information on EWN can be found at its website:http:// www.hum.uva.nl/~ewn/gwa.htm.2  Browse the ?Center for the Cognitive Science of MetaphorOnline?
for references at work on metaphor and links to otherwebsites: http://philosphy.uoregon.edu/metaphor/metaphor.htm.See the Berkeley Conceptual Metaphor Home Page - db athttp://cogsci.berkeley.edu/ for a database of conceptual meta-phors.
A similar database is being developed also for Germanand French: http://www.rrz.uni-hamburg.de/metaphern (cf.Eilts and L?nneker, 2002).IWN).3 Finally, we propose a way of dealing withmetaphors encoding in resources such asEWN/IWN, which can be useful to obtain informa-tion which is necessary for word sense disam-biguation.2 MetaphorLakoff and Johnson (1980) and Lakoff (1993)show that metaphor is not just a poetical way ofspeaking, rather it is deeply embedded in our lan-guage, culture and the way we think.
Metaphoraffects how we experience and interact with theworld and other people: ?the human conceptualsystem is metaphorically structured and defined.Metaphors as linguistic expressions are possibleprecisely because there are metaphors in a person?sconceptual system.?
(Lakoff and Johnson, 1980:6).Thus, metaphor is a cognitive rather than a lin-guistic phenomenon, and word senses are related interms of their underlying conceptual domains.Metaphoric linguistic expressions are manifesta-tions of ?conceptual metaphors?, i.e.
metaphoricalstructures which are present in our minds and re-late a concrete source domain with a more abstracttarget domain.
In other words, metaphoric expres-sions are the superficial realization of the mappingwe perform from a ?literal?
source semantic do-main to a ?figurative?
target semantic domain.
Atleast two consequences follow from this perspec-tive which should be considered when building alexicon for NLP applications:i) metaphorical extension of word senses is a kindof regular polysemy (cf.
Apresjan, 1973): e.g., Hearrived (?came here?
or ?was born?)
when we were20; He left us (?went away?
or ?died?)
after sometime;ii) generalizations govern inference models, i.e.those cases in which an inference model from acertain conceptual domain is used in another do-3 IWN was developed within the SI-TAL (Integrated Systemfor the Automatic Treatment of Language) Italian project,devoted to the creation of large linguistic resources and soft-ware tools for the Italian written and spoken language process-ing.
The database was built by extending the Italian wordnetrealized within EWN, and inherited from EWN its maincharacteristics (general structure, relations, etc.
; see Alonge etal.
(2000) and Roventini et al (forthcoming) for a detaileddescription of the IWN database).main: e.g., In our relationship we have faced manyobstacles ?
It has been difficult to go ahead.3 Metaphoric expressions in EWN-IWNWhen looking for word sense distinctions withindifferent lexical resources we see that these varywidely across resources.
4  Different dictionariesdistinguish among different senses of words in asort of arbitrary way, since they are strongly influ-enced by the purpose of the resource (the targetaudience), and have different editorial philosophieswith respect to ?lumping vs. splitting?
of senses(Atkins, 1993; Kilgarriff, 1997).
Dictionaries nor-mally contain distinctions between ?literal?
vs.?figurative?
meanings within a lexical entry.
How-ever, such information is in general, at best, ?in-complete?:1.
information on metaphoric uses is not sys-tematic in many sources, and differentsources contain different information;2. when information on metaphoric senseextensions is present, there is generally noclear indication of the connection betweenthe ?basic?
and the ?extended?
senses;3. data which could help to identify novelmetaphoric expressions are not provided.EWN first and IWN then were built using assource data dictionaries available in machine-readable form, thus they contain inconsistenciesand shortage of data partly inherited from diction-aries, in particular with respect to figurative lan-guage.
Consider, for instance, the verb andare (togo): it has 17 senses in IWN (reported below), twoof which are strictly motion senses while the othersare figurative senses somehow derived from thetwo basic ones, with different degrees of proximityto the literal senses.4 We assume some sort of intuitive pre-theoretical notion ofword-sense, which we are well aware that can be disputed.Much research has been devoted at the issues of what a word-sense is and if word-senses ?exist?
at all and should be consid-ered as the basic units of the lexicon.
Although we agree withviews according to which ?word senses exist only relative to atask?
(Kilgarriff, 1997: 1), and are at the same time appealedby proposals for ?coarse coding?
(Harris, 1994), we still be-lieve that a WN-like structure, taking the concepts and thesynsets referring to them as the ?building blocks?
of the (men-tal) lexicon, is both appropriate as a representation of lexicalknowledge (with the basic idea of a net linking the concepts)and can be used as a resource for NLP, provided that the pos-sible uses and actual limits of such a resource are kept clear.Synset Definition{andare 1,muovere 5,gire 1, ire 1}muoversi, spostarsi, senza meta o senza che lameta sia indicata (to move or to change one?splace without a goal, or without a specifiedgoal){andare 2,recarsi 1, por-tarsi 1, trasfe-rirsi 1}muoversi, spostarsi verso una meta pi?
omeno chiaramente definita (to move, to chan-ge one?s place toward a more or less clearlydefined goal){andare 3}essere collocato, essere destinato ad esseremesso in un dato luogo (to be located or to beintended to be put in a specific place){andare 4} sentirsi in un certo modo (to feel in a certainway){andare 5} trasformarsi (to transform - reflexive){andare 6,morire 1, di-partirsi 2, ?
}cessare di vivere (to die, to cease living){andare 7,correre 12}di moneta e simili, avere corso legale (ofmoney, to be legal tender){andare 8} dover essere (to have to be (done)){andare 9,calzare 1} essere adatto, calzare (to fit (s.o.
)){andare 10,piacere 1, gar-bare 1, ?
}essere gradito, piacevole (to like){andare 11,precedere 2,progredire 2,?
}andare avanti, progredire in qualcosa (fig.)
(togo ahead, to progress in something (figura-tive)){andare 12,passare 10,dileguarsi 4,?
}venire meno, dileguarsi (to fade away, todisappear){andare 13}  continuare in un'azione (seguito da un gerun-dio) (to continue doing something){andare 14,estendersi 2,arrivare 6}estendersi fino (to extend to){andare 15,dare 17, con-durre 1, ?
}dare accesso (to lead into){andare 16,funzionare 1}adempiere la propria funzione (to work, tofunction){andare 17,muoversi 4,spostarsi 2}(fig.)
spostarsi (figurative ?
to move, to chan-ge one?s opinion, etc.
)Table 1.
Senses of andare in IWNSenses 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 16 and 17 are clearlymore directly derived from the two basic senses(either the first or the second): e.g., senses 5, 6, 11,12 can all be linked to the general ?CHANGE ISMOTION?
conceptual metaphor; sense 13 to the?ACTION IS MOTION?
metaphor, etc.
The re-maining senses seem also connected with the mo-tion senses, although in a less direct way.
5 Onlytwo of the metaphoric senses are marked as ?figu-rative?
and no indication is provided of the connec-tion between each metaphoric sense and the basicliteral sense it is derived from.
Moreover, if wetake into consideration dictionaries of Italian likeZingarelli or Garzanti, 6  we find different sensedefinitions for andare: Zingarelli has 13 senses(with some information on connection of senses)and Garzanti has 11 (with no indication of senseconnections).
Finally, no information is provided,either in IWN or in the other resources, whichcould be used to automatically disambiguate novelmetaphoric uses of the verb.If we then look for occurrences of andare in acorpus of Italian (the PAROLE corpus, partlyavailable at http://www.ilc.cnr.it/pisystem/demo/demo_dbt/demo_corpus/index.htm; cf.
Goggi etal., 2000), we find occurrences of the verb whichare hardly linked to the senses provided in our re-sources.
Consider just two examples taken fromthis corpus:a. Borg ?
gi?
tornato e se n`?
gi?
andato in unmondo tutto suo (Borg has already come backand he has gone into his own world)b. Altri sono andati con la memoria alle im-magini televisive della guerra del Golfo (Oth-ers went with their memory to the televisionimages of the Gulf war).These two uses of the verb are quite frequent inspoken language, however they are not accountedfor in the resources considered.When comparing corpus occurrences of wordswith information encoded in IWN, as in other lexi-cal resources, one normally sees that there is a sur-prisingly high frequency of figurative senses in5 E.g.,  sense 8 is found in sentences like ?Questo lavoro vafatto subito?
(This work has to be done immediately), whereandare expresses a duty.
We might suppose the existence of aconceptual metaphor like ?TO FULFIL ONE?S DUTY IS TOMOVE TO A GOAL?.
This could be linked to a more general?ACCOMPLISHING SOMETHING IS REACHING AGOAL?
metaphor, again connected with the ?ACTION ISMOTION?
metaphor.
Of course, this analysis needs to bedeepened; in particular, among other cases, one should alsotake into consideration the use of  venire (to come), which inits basic sense indicates opposite direction with respect toandare, in sentences like ?Questo lavoro viene fatto regolar-mente?
(This work is done regularly).6 Lo Zingarelli 1999 in CD-ROM, 1999, Zanichelli, Bologna;Il nuovo dizionario italiano Garzanti, 1991, Garzanti, Milano.real texts but most of these senses are not de-scribed in such resources (cf.
Nimb and SanfordPedersen, 2000, for data identified within theSIMPLE EC project and the solutions proposed inthat context).
Alonge and Castelli (2002a) take intoaccount corpus occurrences of the verb colpire (tohit/to strike/to shoot) and the noun colpo(blow/stroke/shot), and compare the results of thisanalysis with data found for these words withinIWN, concluding that IWN lacks precise informa-tion on frequent metaphoric uses of colpire andcolpo.
Indeed, the data provided show that by ana-lyzing a large general corpus various metaphoricexpressions are clearly distinguishable which arenot (consistently) identified in IWN or in otherresources.
Thus, how should these figurativesenses be accounted for in a WN-like resource (inparticular, in EWN/IWN)?
Moreover, how shouldnovel, potential uses of words be dealt with in aresource such IWN?
We believe that the ability tocope with these issues cannot be set aside if IWN,or similar resources, has to be used for word sensedisambiguation of ?real?
texts.4 Proposals for metaphors encoding inIWN/EWNAs already mentioned, by analyzing a large generalcorpus various well-established metaphoric expres-sions are clearly distinguishable which are not con-sistently encoded in IWN or in other resources.Since the necessity of adding corpora as sourcesfor building computational lexicons is probablyunquestionable, our main point is that one shoulddeal with these issues by adopting a well estab-lished and generally accepted theoretical frame-work like that proposed by Lakoff and Johnson(1980) and Lakoff (1993), within which a largesystem of conventional conceptual metaphors hasbeen described.
By adopting that perspective manysubtle, but relevant, differences may be highlightedin a principled way (cf.
Alonge and Castelli,2002a; 2002b).
These should be encoded inEWN/IWN at the synset level to account for al-ready well established word figurative senses.
Ofcourse, no lexical resource will probably ever beable to exhaustively account for the phenomenonwhich Cruse (1986) termed modulation, determin-ing that ?a single sense can be modified in anunlimited number of ways for different contexts,each context emphasizing certain semantic traits,and obscuring and suppressing others?
(Cruse,1986: 52).
However, each resource should be de-signed so to be as complete and coherent as possi-ble.A more central issue to be tackled, however, isthat of how to encode information on the system-atic nature of conceptual metaphors, determiningthe possibility to produce and/or understand novelmetaphoric uses of words.
When we understandnovel metaphoric expressions we make referenceto a system of established mappings between con-crete conceptual domains and abstract ones.
Thatis, there is a pre-existent knowledge which con-strains our possibility to produce and/or understandnovel metaphoric expressions.
For instance, agroup of conventional conceptual metaphors whichcharacterizes as a subset of the more general?CHANGES ARE MOVEMENTS?
metaphor isthe following: ?BIRTH IS ARRIVAL?, ?LIFE ISBEING PRESENT HERE?, ?DEATH ISDEPARTURE?
(cf.
Lakoff and Johnson, 1980).Thus, we can say, for instance (examples are ours):- Nostro figlio ?
arrivato (= ?
nato) dopo diecianni di matrimonio.
(Our child arrived (= was born) ten years afterour wedding)- Lui non ?
pi?
fra noi.
(= ?
morto)(He is not with us anymore.
(= he is dead))- Se ne ?
andato (?
morto) all?et?
di venti anni.
(He went away (he died) when he wastwenty.
)In IWN (or in the dictionaries considered) we findencoded the senses indicated in the examples foressere and andare but not for arrivare, even if thissense of the verb is attested (although infrequent)in the PAROLE corpus:c. ?
di figli ne sono arrivati troppi.
(there arrived too many children).If we then look for the senses provided for an-other verb, which we may potentially expect todisplay the same regular sense extension of andareas to die ?
lasciare  (to leave) ?, we do not find anyrelevant information in our lexical resources aswell, although also this verb metaphoric sense oc-curs once in our corpus:d. Mentre scrivo ci ha appena lasciato.
La suamorte?
(While I?m writing he/she has just left us.His/her death?
).In fact, these metaphoric uses of arrivare and las-ciare, although not frequent in our corpus (com-Italian wnILI{cane}posed of texts taken from newspapers, magazines,essays, novels, etc), are quite normal in everydayspoken language.In order to build a resource which actually ac-counts for our lexical-conceptual knowledge andcan be used as a resource for NLP, we have to finda way to encode also knowledge about mappingsbetween conceptual domains resulting in potentialmetaphoric expressions production.
This informa-tion should be encoded at a higher level than thesynset level, since it is information on regularpolysemy affecting whole conceptual domains.In IWN, as in EWN, we have three fundamentallevels of representation of semantic information:?
the synset level, where language-specificsynsets information is encoded;?
the level of the linking to the Interlingual-Index (ILI ?
an unstructured list of WN 1.5synsets) to which synsets from the specificwordnet point (by means of so-called?equivalence-relations?)
in order to per-form the linking between different lan-guage-specific wordnets;?
the Top Ontology (TO), a hierarchy oflanguage-independent concepts, reflectingfundamental semantic distinctions, whichmay (or may not) be lexicalised in variousways, or according to different patterns, indifferent languages: via the ILI, all theconcepts in the language specific wordnetare directly or indirectly (via hyponymyrelations) linked to the TO.7The figure below exemplifies the relationsamong the three levels.7 Note that in EWN/IWN not all the synsets are directly linkedto TO.
Actually, only the so-called ?Base Concepts?
(cf.Vossen, 1999) are explicitly linked to ILIs connected with TopConcepts.
However, the links to Top Concepts are inherited byall the other synsets within the wordnets via hyponymy rela-tions with the Base Concepts.Top OntologyFigure 1.
Levels of representation of semanticinformation in EWN/IWNSince the distinctions at the level of the TO arelanguage independent, it is necessary to showmetaphoric regular polysemy found in a specificlanguage at a different level.
Indeed, there are cul-ture-constrained differences in the metaphor sys-tem (see, e.g., the differences linked to orientationreported by Lakoff and Johnson, 1980, determiningfor instance that in some cultures the future is infront of us and in others the future is behind us)which should receive a representation at someother level.In EWN some cases of regular polysemy weredealt with at the level of the linking of each lan-guage-specific wordnet with the ILI.
Via the ILIthe generalizations over concepts were then pro-jected to the TO.
Generalizations were stated di-rectly at the level of the ILI and automaticallyinherited from all the synsets which in a language-specific wordnet were linked to the ILI synsetsinvolved in the generalizations themselves.
Anautomatically added generalization could be latermanually deleted in case it did not apply to a spe-cific language (cf.
Peters et al, 1998).
For in-stance, the lexeme scuola (school) in Italian hasgot (among others) two related senses indicating{animale}      {animal}ANIMALLIVINGNATURAL?wnone the institution and the other the building.
Thisis a case of regular polysemy since many wordsindicating institutions also indicate buildings inItalian (as, of course, in other languages).
Once theItalian school-institution and the school-buildingsynsets were linked to the appropriate synsets inthe ILI, the system automatically added to bothItalian synsets another equivalence link, calledEQ_METONYM, to a kind of ?composite ILI unit?,clustering the ?institution?
and ?building?
ILI syn-sets into a coarser-grained sense group.
Thus, oursynsets, via the ILI, were linked to tops in the TOindicating concepts in different domains.
A similaroperation was automatically performed for sensesreflecting diathesis alternations for verbs (relatedby EQ_DIATHESIS), such as causative and inchoa-tive pairs.
In case a kind of regular polysemy didnot display in our language, the automatically gen-erated link to the relevant composite ILI unit hadto be manually deleted.We think that an EQ_METAPHOR relation point-ing to new composite ILI units should be created toaccount for regular metaphoric extensions ofsenses in  EWN/IWN.
Via the ILI links the con-nection between specific synsets in a languagewould also be shown at the TO level as connection(mapping) between top concepts (linked to differ-ent conceptual domains).
On the other hand, themapping at the TO level could be used to inferwhich words might potentially display a certainmetaphoric extension, when this is not encoded atthe synset level.
Indeed, the link to a Top Conceptis inherited along taxonomies within the language-specific wordnets, thus all the synsets directly orindirectly connected (through hyponymy) with an-other synset would inherit the links to Top Con-cepts related to different conceptual domains.Thus, even when specific information on a possiblemetaphoric sense extension of a word is not en-coded in the database it would be possible to de-rive it.
Consider the case of lasciare (to leave),mentioned above, and related conceptual meta-phors.
This verb has 9 senses in IWN (i.e., it isfound within 9 synsets), one of which (sense 2) isdefined as ?andarsene da un luogo temporanea-mente o definitivamente?
(to go away from a placetemporarily or definitively): this verb sense is a(direct) hyponym of the {partire 1, andare via 1}synset which, via an equivalence link to the {go,go away, depart, travel away} ILI synset, is con-nected with the Top Concepts ?BoundedEvent?,indicating change of state; ?Location?, indicatingthat the change referred to is a change of location;and ?Physical?, indicating that the change of loca-tion involves ?physical entities?.
As was done inEWN for other kinds of sense extensions, a ?com-posite ILI unit?
should be created, clustering the?departure?
ILI synset (already linked to our {par-tire 1, andare 1} synset) and the ?death?
ILI synsetand accounting for the ?DEATH IS DEPARTURE?conceptual metaphor: then, the Italian synset already manually linked to the ?departure?
ILI synsetwould also be connected, through anEQ_METAPHOR relation, to the ?death?
ILI synset.8Consequently, the same synset would be, at thesame time, connected both to the synset(s) indicat-ing ?death?
in Italian and to the relevant Top Con-cepts in the TO.
All the hyponyms of {partire 1,andare via 1} would then inherit these connections;thus, also lasciare would display the same links,even if no specific information is encoded at thesynset level.
Again, cf.
the figure below for aschematic representation of these relations.Figure 2.
The lasciare links8 Note that for languages not displaying this sense extensionthe equivalence relation should be manually deleted.ILICOMPOSITE ILITop OntologyItalian wn{partire 1,andare via 1}{lasciare 2}{go, go away,depart, travelaway}{die, pip out, de-cease, perish,go,?
}LOCATIONBoundedEvent?In this way, information on potential metaphoricuses of lasciare (and, of course, other words in thewordnet) could be retrieved, by going from TopConcepts to ILI synsets and then to language-specific wordnets.5 ConclusionIn this paper we have discussed a way to deal withmetaphoric expressions in WN-like databaseswhich involves: i) a more careful analysis of tex-tual corpora and the reference to theoretical well-established views of metaphor to encode more de-tailed information at the synset level; ii) the exten-sions of devices already used in EWN in order toencode information on the mapping between con-ceptual domains, causing the possibility to havecertain metaphoric sense extensions in a language.The research on the latter issue needs to be furthercarried out; in particular:- we want to deepen the issue of the weight thatother relations than hyponymy (cf.
Alonge etal., 1998; Roventini et al, forthcoming) havein order to determine when a concept belongsto a certain conceptual domain for whichmetaphoric sense extensions inherited fromthe TO apply;- we think that the EWN TO should be ex-tended with more concepts, since at the mo-ment it only contains very general semanticdistinctions.ReferencesAlonge Antonietta, Francesca Bertagna, Nicoletta Cal-zolari, Adriana Roventini and Antonio Zampolli.2000.
Encoding Information on Adjectives in a Lexi-cal-Semantic Net for Computational Applications.Proceedings of the 1st Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, Seattle, 42-50.Alonge Antonietta, Nicoletta Calzolari, Piek Vossen,Laura Bloksma, Irene Castellon, Maria Antonia Mar-ti and Wim Peters.
1998.
The Linguistic Design ofthe EuroWordNet Database.
Special Issue onEuroWordNet.
Computers and the Humanities, Vol.32, Nos.
2-3: 91-115.Alonge Antonietta and Margherita Castelli.
2002a.Metaphoric expressions: an analysis of data from acorpus and the ItalWordNet database, in Proceedingsof the 1st international WordNet Conference, Mysore,India, 342-50.Alonge Antonietta and Margherita Castelli.
2002b.Which way should we go?
Metaphoric expressions inlexical resources, in Proceedings of the 3rd  Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation, Las Palmas, Canary Islands, Spain,1948-53.Apresjan Jurij D. 1973.
Regular Polysemy.
Linguistics,142: 5-32.Atkins B. T. Sue.
1993.
Building a Lexicon: The Con-tribution of Lexicography.
International Journal ofLexicography, 3: 167-204.Cruse D. Alan.
1986.
Lexical Semantics.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Eilts Carina and Birte L?nneker, 2002.
The HamburgMetaphor Database.
Metaphorik.de, 3/2002.Fellbaum Christiane.
1998.
Towards a representation ofidioms in WordNet.
Proceedings of theCOLING/ACL Workshop on Usage of WordNet inNatural Language Processing Systems, Montreal.Goggi Sara, Laura Biagini, Eugenio Picchi, Remo Bin-di, Sergio Rossi and Rita Marinelli.
2000.
ItalianCorpus Documentation.
LE-PAROLE, WP2.11.Lakoff George.
1993.
The Contemporary Theory ofMetaphor.
In Andrew Ortony (ed.)
Metaphor andThought.
Second Edition.
Cambridge UniversityPress, New York.Lakoff George and Mark Johnson.
1980.
Metaphors WeLive by.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago.Harris C. 1994.
Coarse Coding and the Lexicon.
InFuchs C. and Victorri B.
(eds.)
Continuity in Linguis-tic Semantics, Benjamins, Amsterdam.Kilgarriff Adam.
1997.
?I don?t believe in word senses?.Computers and the Humanities, 31 (2): 91-113.Nimb Sanni and Bolette Sandford Pedersen.
2000.Treating Metaphoric Senses in a Danish Computa-tional Lexicon ?
Different Cases of RegularPolysemy.
Proceedings of the 9th Euralex Interna-tional Congress.Peters Wim, Ivonne Peters and Piek Vossen.
1998.Automatic Sense Clustering in EuroWordNet.
Pro-ceedings of the 1st International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation.
Granada, 409-23.Roventini Adriana, Antonietta Alonge, Francesca Ber-tagna, Nicoletta Calzolari, Jessica Cancila, Rita Ma-rinelli, Antonio Zampolli, Bernardo Magnini,Christian Girardi and Manuela Speranza.
Forthco-ming.
ItalWordNet: Building a Large Semantic Data-base for the Automatic  Treatment of Italian.Linguistica Computazionale.
Pisa: Giardini.Vossen Piek (ed.).
1999.
EuroWordNet General Docu-ment.
The EWN CD-Rom (see also:http://www.hum.uva.nl/~ewn).
