The Semantic Knowledge-base of Contemporary Chineseand its Applications in WSD?Hui WangInstitute of Computational LinguisticsPeking UniversityBeijing 100871, Chinawhui@pku.edu.cnShiwen YuInstitute of Computational LinguisticsPeking UniversityBeijing 100871, Chinayusw@pku.edu.cn?
Supported by China National Fundamental Research Program (973) (PN: G1998030507-4).AbstractThe Semantic Knowledge-base of Con-temporary Chinese (SKCC) is a largescale Chinese semantic resource devel-oped by the Institute of ComputationalLinguistics of Peking University.
It pro-vides a large amount of semantic informa-tion such as semantic hierarchy andcollocation features for 66,539 Chinesewords and their English counterparts.
ItsPOS and semantic classification representthe latest progress in Chinese linguisticsand language engineering.
The descrip-tions of semantic attributes are fairlythorough, comprehensive and authorita-tive.
The paper introduces the outline ofSKCC, and indicates that it is effective forword sense disambiguation in MT appli-cations and is likely to be important forgeneral Chinese language processing.Key words:  Semantic knowledge-base,lexical semantic, computational lexicog-raphy, word sense disambiguation?WSD?, Chinese language processing1 IntroductionSemantic resources play an important role in manyareas of Natural Language Processing (NLP).
TheInstitute of Computational Linguistics (ICL) ofPeking University has been engaged in researchand development of the Semantic Knowledge-baseof Contemporary Chinese (SKCC) in the last eightyears.
This lexicon-building project was a collabo-ration with the Institute of Computing Technology,Chinese Academy of Sciences during 1994-1998,and resulted in a machine-readable bilingual lexi-con suitable for use with Machine Translation ap-plications, which contained a fairly completecharacterization of the semantic classification, va-lence specifications and collocation properties for49 thousands Chinese words and their Englishcounterparts (Wang Hui, 1998).Since 2001, the further development of SKCChas been co-conducted by ICL and Chinese De-partment of Peking University.
At present, SKCChas made great progress.
Not only is the scale ex-tended to 66,539 entries, but also the quality hasbeen immensely improved.
The semantic classifi-cation in the updated edition of SKCC is the em-bodiment of the very latest progress in Chineselinguistics and language engineering, while thesemantic descriptions are comprehensive and thor-ough.
It can provide rich lexical semantic informa-tion for various NLP applications.2 Outline of SKCC2.1 Scale and StructureSKCC consists of one general database and sixsub-databases.
The general database containsshared attributes of all the 66,539 entries, while thesub-databases provide detailed descriptions of thedistinctive semantic attributes associated with theparts of speech (POS).
For example, the verb data-base has 16 attribute fields, noun database and ad-jective database has 15 attribute fields respectively.DatabaseNameEntries AttributefieldsAttributevaluenouns 38,478 15 5verbs 21,142 16 3adjective 5,577 15 8pronouns 236 15 3adverbs 997 11 1numerals 109 11 1General  66,539 8 5Total 133,07 91 1Table 1  Scale of SKCCAll of the six sub-databases can be linked tothe general database through four key fields,namely ENTRY, POS, HOMOMORPHISM andSENSE.
As a result, the son knots can inherit allinformation from their father knots (Figure 1).Figure 1 Main structure of SKCC2.2 Semantic HierarchyOne of the most outstanding characteristics ofSKCC is that its semantic hierarchy is based ongrammatical analysis, rather than merely on gen-eral knowledge (as illustrated in Figure 2 below).This classification system represents the latest pro-gress in Chinese semantics.
It is very useful forNLP applications(Zhan Weidong, 1997), as well ascompatible with various semantic resources, suchas Wordnet (Christiane Fellbaum.
1998), Chineseconcept dictionary (CCD)( Yu Jiangsheng, 2002),HowNet(Dong Zhendong, 2000) etc.
Currently,the classification of all of the 66,539 entries hasalready been completed.
?1?Verbsstateemotion/cognitionevent           changeweatherbody functionsperceptionconsumptionmotioncreationcontactpossessioncommunicationcompetitionsocial behaviorother event?2?Adjectivesdescription of eventproperty of objectmeasurable value       concentrationspeedtemperaturespeedlengthheightwidthdepthrigidityhumiditythicknesstightnesssizevalueimmeasurable value       visiontactilitytonetasteshapequalitycontentcolorproperty of human           agecharacterrelationconditionproperty of space          one dimensiontwo dimensionthree dimensionproperty of timeGeneral DatabaseNoun DatabaseVerb DatabaseAdjective DatabaseNumeral DatabaseAdverb DatabasePronoun Database(3) Nounsentity           organism        person        individual              professionidentityrelationnamegroup                  organizationsocietyanimal               beastbird ?plant                    treeflower ?microbeobject            artifact               buildingworksfoodclothesbillinstrument                toolvehicle?
sports- instrumentfurniture?natural object           celestial bodyweathergeography         landwater?excrementshapepart              body-partobject-partabstraction           attribute       measurableimmeasurable          property of humaninformation                           description of eventfield                                       property of objectphysiological statemotivationrulepsycho feature            feelingscognitionprocess             eventnatural phenomenon          visible phenomenontime                   specific time                     audible phenomenonrelative timespace                locationdirection?4?adverbsdegreerangetimelocationfrequencymannernegationmodality?5?numeralscardinal numberordinal numberamountauxiliaryFigure 2  Semantic hierarchy in SKCC2.3 Comprehensive Semantic DescriptionsThere is close correlation between lexical meaningand its distribution.
Oriented to MT and IR, oneaim of SKCC is to provide detailed semantic de-scription and collocation behavior that in manycases is likely to be uniquely associated with a sin-gle sense.
For example, following attribute fieldshave been filled with values in the verb database(see table 2).ENTRY Commonly used Chineseword or idiom phrasePRONUNCIATION Chinese Pinyin with tonessuch as ?chi3zi5?
for ????
(ruler)PART OFSPEECHPOS tagging of per word oridiomSUB-CATEGORYSub-category tagging of perword or idiomPOSs All POS tagging of perwordHOMOMORPHISM Homograph numberSENSE Sense number of perpolysemous wordDEFINITION Sense definitionSEMANTICCATEGORYSemantic categories of perword or idiom.
A word canbe tagged with two or moresemantic categories.
Forinstance, the noun ????
(greengrocery) belong to?plant | food?
categories.VALENCE Valence number of eachentry.
For example, ????
(cough) is a one-valenceverb?while ???
(eat) is atwo-valence one,???
(give) is three-valence.AGENT Actor of action or motion.OBJECT Object of action.DATIVE Beneficiary or suffer ofaction.TRANSLATION English counterpart of perword or idiom.ECAT POS tagging of per Englishword or phrase.ILLUSTRATIONS Corpus-derived examplesentences showing authen-tic contexts of a word oridiom.Table 2 Semantic attributes in the verb database of SKCCTo sum up, the above attributes fall into fivekinds of information below:(1)  Basic information of entry, such as vocabularyitem, part of speech, sub-category, homographand pronunciation;(2)  Descriptions of word meaning, including sensenumber, definition, and semantic categories;(3)  Semantic valence, thematic roles and combina-torial properties for per words; this is the mostimportant part of SKCC and especially usefulfor WSD and lexical semantics research;(4)  English translation and its POS tagging.
If aChinese word has two or more Englishcounterparts, it will be regarded as differententries respectively, and the collocationinformation will also be given in relevantfields.
This can significantly improve thequality of Chinese-English MT system.
(5)  Corpus-derived authentic examples of a wordin context, showing how it is used, howphrases are formed around it, and so on.3 Application in WSDAs a large-scale lexical knowledge base, SKCCcombines the features of many of the other re-sources commonly exploited in NLP work: it in-cludes definitions and English translations for in-dividual senses of words within it, as in a bilingualdictionary; it organizes lexical concepts into a con-ceptual hierarchy, like a thesaurus; and it includesother links among words according to several se-mantic relations, including semantic role, colloca-tion information etc.
As such it currently providesthe broadest set of lexical information in a singleresource.
The kind of information recorded andmade available through SKCC is of a type usablefor various NLP applications, including machinetranslation, automatic abstraction, information re-trieval, hypertext navigation, thematic analysis,and text processing.In this section, we shall focus on the automaticdisambiguation of Chinese word senses involvingSKCC since it is most troublesome, and essentialfor all the above NLP applications (Ide, 1998).3.1 Determination of the polysemous wordsand homographsIn general terms, word sense disambiguation(WSD) task necessarily involves two steps: (1) thedetermination of all the polysemous words andhomographs in the text or discourse; and (2) ameans to assign each occurrence of a word to theappropriate sense.Step (1) can be easily accomplished by relianceon SKCC.
Firstly, each entry denotes one singlesense of per word in SKCC.
Thus, if a word hastwo or more senses, it will be regard as differententries, and the ?SENSE?
field will be filled withdifferent number (as ??
?in table 3).ENTRY ?
1 ?
2POS n nSENSE 1 2DEFINITION vegetable cooked vege-table, egg,fish, meat...etcTRANSLATION vegetable dishILLUSTRATIONS ??growvegetables??potherb?
?meat or fish???
?four dishesand a bowlof soupTable 3 Two senses of Chinese noun ??
?Secondly, SKCC marked all of the homo-graphs in ?HOMOMORPHISM?
field, such as twoverbs ??
?with different pronunciation in table 4.ENTRY ?
1 ?
2PRONUNCIATION Kan4 Kan1HOMOMORPHISM A BDEFINITION see;watch;look atlook after;take care ofTRANSLATION see look afterTable 4 Homographs in SKCCTherefore, if either of the ?SENSE?
and?HOMOMORPHISM?
fields is filled with value inSKCC, the entry must be a polysemous word orhomograph.3.2 WSD based on semantic categoriesThe senses of most Chinese polysemous words andhomographs belong to different semantic catego-ries, and have different syntagmatic features incontext (Wang Hui, 2002) .
SKCC gives detaileddescription of such information in ?AGENT?and/or ?OBJECT?
fields as illustrated in table 5below.ENTRY ??
1 ??
2POS  a aSENSE 1 2DEFINITION (of food,drink,smell)light;weak(of business)slackSEMANTICCATEGORYtaste conditionAGENT food | drink|plant?business?TRANSLATION light slackTable 5 Polysemous adjectives in SKCCBased on the above description, the targetword ????
in following POS-tagged text can beaccurately disambiguated:[1]  ?/m ?/q ?
?/a ?/u ??
?/nA cup of light Longjing tea.
[2]  ??
?/t ?
?/v ?/u ?/n ?/d ?/a ???/n?
?/d ?
?/a?When the season is busy, few farmers go totown and the business is rather slack.In sentence[1], the word modified by ???
?is the noun???
(tea) , which is a kind of ?drink?
;while the word????
in sentence [2] is a predicateof ?business?.
According to the different valuesin ?AGENT?
field, it is easy to judge that thesetwo ????
belong to two semantic categories, viz.the former is ?light?
?and the latter is ?slack?.3.3 WSD based on collocation informationAs for the polysemous words or homographs be-longing to the same semantic category, the differ-ence between them usually manifests at thecollocation level.
According to a study in cognitivescience, people often disambiguate word sense us-ing only a few other words in a given context (fre-quently only one additional word) ( Choueka,1983).
Thus, the relationships between one wordand others can be effectively used to resolve ambi-guity.
For example, Chinese verb ???
has twosenses: one is ????
(look for) and the other is ????
(give change).
Only when the verb co-occurs with the noun ???
(money), it can be inter-preted as ?give change?
; Otherwise, it means ?lookfor?
(see table 6).ENTRY ?
1 ?
2HOMOMORPHISM A BSENSE 1 2DEFINITION look for;seek try tofind;give changeAGENT person entityOBJECT entity ?money?DATIVE  personTRANSLATION look for give changeTable 6  Different senses of verb ??
?According to table 6, the verb ???
in sen-tence [1] below must be ?look for?, because itsobject is ???
(person), a kind of ?entity?
; while ??
?in sentence [2] has two objects, namely, indi-rect object ??
?
(me) and direct object ???(money).
Thus, its meaning is ?give change?.[1]?
?/r ?/d  ?
?/v  ?/v  ?/n?They will go out to look for sb.[2]??
?/n ?/d ?
?/d ?/v ?/r ?/n ?The seller has not given change to me.By making full use of SKCC and a large scalePOS-tagged corpus of Chinese, a multi-levelsWSD model is developed and has already beenused in a Chinese-English MT application.4 ConclusionSKCC is a well-structured Chinese-English bilin-gual semantic resource, as described in the paper, ithas more than 66,000 Chinese words and theirEnglish counterparts classified, and the accuratedescription of about 1.5 million attributes furtherenriched the abundance of lexical semantic knowl-edge.
It not only provides a deductive system ofword meaning and valuable semantic knowledgefor Chinese language processing, but also has greattheoretical significance in lexical semantics andcomputational lexicography research.AcknowledgementWe appreciate all the members participated inSKCC project, especially Prof. Lu Jianming, Dr.Zhan Weidong, Mr. Li Kangnian and Dr. ChangBaobao.
The blithesome collaboration with Dr.Ying Chenjin and Mr. Guo qingjian from ChineseDepartment is memorable for all of us.
Lastly,thanks our colleagues and friends for their kindlydiscussion with the authors.ReferencesChoueka, Y. and S. Lusignan, 1983.
?A Connec-tionist Scheme for Modeling Word Sense Dis-ambiguation,?
Cognition and Brain Theory.
6(1).
pp.89-120.Christiane Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet: an electroniclexical database.
Mass: MIT Press.Dong Zhendong, Dong Qiang.
200.
?Hownet?.http:// www.keenage.com.Ide, Nancy; Jean V?ronis.
1998.
?Introduction tothe Special Issue on Word SenseDisambiguation: The State of the Art?,Computational Linguistics.
Vol.24, No.1.pp1-40Wang Hui, Zhan Weidong, Liu Qun.
1998.
?De-sign of Semantic Dictionary of Modern Chi-nese?.
Proceedings from 1998 InternationalConference on Chinese Information Process-ing.
Beijing: Tsinghua University Press.pp361-367.Wang Hui.
2002.
?Chinese Word Sense Disam-biguation in Machine Translation?.
Proceed-ings from Chinese National Symposium onMachine Translation.
Beijing: PublishingHouse of Electronics Industry.
pp.34-43.Yu Jiangsheng, Yu Shiwen.
2002.
?Structure andDesign of CCD?.
Chinese Information Proc-essing.
16 (4): 12-20.Zhan Weidong, Liu Qun.
1997.
?The importantrole of semantic classification in Chinese-English MT?.
Language Engineering.Tsinghua University Press.
286-291.
