Sergei Nirenburg Marjorie McShane Stephen BealeInstitute for Language Information TechnologiesUniversity of Maryland, Baltimore County{sergei,marge,sbeale}@umbc.eduAbstractIn this paper, we briefly and informally illus-trate, using a few annotated examples, thestatic and dynamic knowledge resources of on-tological semantics.
We then present the mainmotivations and desiderata of our approachand then discuss issues related to making onto-logical-semantic applications feasible throughthe judicious stepwise enhancement of staticand dynamic knowledge sources while at alltimes maintaining a working system.1.
IntroductionThis paper discusses selected issues in ontological se-mantics (OS), an implemented computational-semantictheory that deals with the extraction, representation anduse of meaning in natural language texts.
Unlike practi-cally all other work in computational semantics, OSmakes itself responsible for all the necessary compo-nents and stages in automatic text meaning analysis: itaddresses lexical and compositional meaning as well aspragmatics and discourse issues.
Its processing heuris-tics are derived from syntax, morphology and other?preprocessing,?
non-semantic analysis stages that arestill incorporated in the system, as well as from detailedunderlying world models that include specifications notonly of basic events, objects and properties but also ofcomplex events, or scripts.The goal of OS is the extraction, representation andmanipulation of meaning in natural language texts witha view toward supporting applications such as MT orquestion answering.
Text meaning is represented in textmeaning representations (TMRs) that are derived com-positionally, primarily from meanings of words andphrases in the text.
Word and phrase meaning is en-coded in the ontological-semantic lexicon.
The underly-ing ontology is the main metalanguage of lexical mean-ing specification.1 As a result, TMRs largely consist of1 Some lexical elements carry grammatical, pragmatic or dis-course-related meanings that are reflected in TMRs but not interms of ontological concepts.instances of ontological concepts.
Some of these in-stances are remembered (as ?facts?)
and stored in thefact repository, FR, a knowledge base of rememberedontological instances.
Some facts in the fact repositoryare referred to by proper names in texts?personalnames, toponyms, names of organizations, specific arti-facts (?the statue of Liberty?
), etc.
These proper namesare stored in the onomasticon, the semantic zones ofwhose entries contain a pointer to a corresponding FRelement.2The following example illustrates our ontological-semantic knowledge resources (for a more detailed de-scription see Nirenburg and Raskin 2003, Chapters 6-7).
The example is much simpler than the sentencesfrom real texts with which the ontological-semanticanalyzer typically works and is used here for pedagogi-cal reasons and to save space.
Consider the input sen-tence Alex Patrick makes tools.
Morphological and syn-tactic analysis of this input will yield the followingstructure (throughout this paper we use a presentationnotation that is simplified for readability):root     makecat   verbtense  presentsubjectroot   ?Alex Patrick?cat   noun-properdirect-objectroot      toolcat   nounnumber  pluralThe relevant zones of the ontological-semantic entry forthe appropriate (first verbal) sense of make are as fol-lows:make-v1syn-strucroot make2 State-of-the-art techniques for recognizing named entitiesnot in the onomasticon are incorporated in the analyzer; forexample, lists of personal names from various languages areincluded in the lexicon.
Note also the special reference resolu-tion issues that maintenance of the FR raises.Operative Strategies in Ontological Semanticscat  verbsubjectroot $var1cat   noundirect-objectroot $var2cat   nounsem-strucCREATE-ARTIFACTAGENT ^$var1THEME ^$var2In the above entry, the variables are used for link-ing; the caret means ?the meaning of?
; CREATE-ARTIFACT is an ontological concept (ontological con-cepts are in SMALL-CAPS); AGENT and THEME areamong its case roles and are used in this lexicon entryto specify selectional restrictions on this sense of make.As it happens, the selectional restrictions listed in theontological definition of the concept CREATE-ARTIFACTare sufficient for this case of make, so that no furtherspecialization or generalization of these restrictions inthe lexicon is required.CREATE-ARTIFACT...AGENT sem HUMANTHEME sem ARTIFACT?In general, constraints in lexicon entries can modify andsupplant those listed in the ontology; this is a means ofcontrolling the proliferation of ontological concepts inthe system.
Lexicon entries for the appropriate sensesof the other elements of the input sentence are as fol-lows (we assume that the FR does not include an AlexPatrick, so that regular lexicon entries will have to beused):alex-n1syn-strucroot alexcat  noun-propersem-strucHUMANFIRST-NAME value alexGENDER sem maleIn the above, the filler of the property GENDER is intro-duced through the sem facet since it is defeasible (thelexicon acquirer judged it plausible that there may befemales called Alex).patrick-n2  ;this is the last name sensesyn-strucroot patrickcat  noun-propersem-strucHUMANLAST-NAME value patricktool-n1syn-strucroot toolcat  nounsem-strucTOOLIn the entry for tool-n1, the semantics is simply a uni-vocal mapping to an ontological concept.On the basis of the knowledge from the ontology,the lexicon and syntactic analysis, the ontological-semantic analyzer will produce the following semanticdependency that will serve as the basis of the TMR(numbers appended to ontological concept names markthem as instances of these concepts):CREATE-ARTIFACT-73AGENT human-209FIRST-NAME  alexLAST-NAME  patrickTHEME set-46element-type toolcardinality  > 11.1  DisambiguationA number of important representational and processingissues have been omitted in this presentation, notably, adiscussion of disambiguation heuristics.
The first-linemechanism of ambiguity resolution in OS is matchingselectional restrictions.
In our example, selectional re-strictions on the theme of the proposition head matchedsuccessfully: indeed, tools are artifacts.
As to the re-strictions on the agent, they have been found to be tooweak to resolve the ambiguity completely: both the last-name and the first-name (not shown) sense of Patrick fitthe selectional restrictions on the proposition head (in-deed, Alex Patrick may be also be a double first name).Additional disambiguation means are required in thiscase.We have developed two general methods for addi-tional sense disambiguation: dynamic tightening of se-lectional restrictions (Mahesh et al, 1997) and deter-mining weighted distances among ontological conceptsactivated in the input (using the Ontosearch procedure,e.g., Onyshkevych, 1997).
None of these methods will,incidentally, help in our example, so that additionalheuristic procedures will have to be built for this type ofambiguity.
Incidentally, such heuristic procedures couldinclude evidence from a wide variety of sources, in-cluding text corpora.
Supporting semantic analysis inthis way should become an important direction of workin corpus-oriented computational linguistics (see furtherdiscussion below).Residual ambiguity is one of several possible initialoutcomes of the analysis process.
Figure 1 illustratesthe entire set of possible outcomes of the analyzer op-eration.
Note that, in principle, the single-candidateoutcome may prove to be less than ideal?it might sim-ply reflect errors and omissions in static knowledge re-sources.
Still, at this time deriving a single outputserves as the halting condition of the analysis process.Figure 1.
Eventualities in semantic analysis.If Alex Patrick were the name of a company (cf.Merrill Lynch) and were not listed in the FR and therewere no textual clues (e.g., Inc.) to recognize it as such,the system would fail to produce the correct analysis(that is, we would end up with zero candidate out-comes).
Currently, the only way to rectify this state ofaffairs is to (manually) add to the fact repository an in-stance of CORPORATION with the name Alex Patrick andall its known property values.
However, we are workingon coercion rules that in the above example would fa-vor the corporation reading if the event in question hadthe selectional restriction CORPORATION in the appro-priate case role.1.2  Multivalued Selectional RestrictionsReturning to our original example, if Alex Patrick is acorporation, then the selectional restrictions on CREATE-ARTIFACT will be violated (a company is not a human).As a result, the corporation sense will always lose to thehuman sense because in the latter case selectional re-strictions do match!
We have, naturally, noted that or-ganizations are often used in texts in positions that are?officially?
occupied by people; indeed, this is one ofthe most widespread types of metonymy.
We thereforedecided to relax the selectional restrictions in suchcases by introducing a relaxable-to facet for propertyfillers, in addition to the rigid value and abductivelyoverridable sem facets.
This amounted to the introduc-tion of multivalued selectional restrictions.
Matches onfillers of sem facets are preferred but matches on fillersof relaxable-to facets are not discarded as wrong.
If, asin our example, ambiguity results, additional means ofits resolution are used.Multivalued selectional restrictions are also used totreat metonymy: e.g., the THEME of PLAY-MUSICAL-INSTRUMENT is constrained to MUSIC-PIECE but thestandard metonymy of composer name will be alsonoted in the same lexicon entry, together with its ex-pansion to MUSIC-PIECE with the property AUTHORED-BY filled by the metonym.Processing unexpected input (including lexicallyunaccounted for metonymies) can be done dynamicallyusing Ontosearch.
To treat metonymies, Ontosearchcalculates whether the ontological distance between themetonym and the selectional restriction that it mustmatch is below a preset threshold (in which case dy-namic relaxation is allowed and the case is declaredtrue metonymy).1.3  More Expressive Means in OSThe Alex Patrick example illustrated some of the issuesinvolved in building a basic semantic dependency.
On-tological semantics, however, goes beyond that limitand into what is traditionally covered in pragmatics anddiscourse ?
on the assumption that, since these types ofmeanings are expressed in language they ought to berepresented and manipulated.
The following exampleillustrates both the treatment of additional types ofmeaning and additional expressive means in OS.The English verb prevent has two senses in the on-tological-semantic lexicon.
The first sense is used, forexample, in The union organizer prevented a strike.The basic meaning of prevent-v1 can be roughlyglossed as ?the union organizer carried out an unnamedaction or actions as a result of which a strike that waslooming did not materialize.
?In the sem-struc zone of prevent-v1, the meaning ofthe syntactic subject (^$var1) has selectional restric-tions on two facets (sem and relaxable-to).
The precon-dition for the preventive event is the potential of thething that is being prevented.
The effect is that the thingthat was prevented did not materialize.
This is encodedusing value ranges of certain modalities of the event.Modalities in OS are means of expressing speaker atti-tudes toward various elements of meaning (or even en-tire TMRs).
Potential modality reflects the probabilityof a certain event or state of affairs taking place; epis-temic modality measures the degree of factivity of theelements in its scope.
Modalities are attributed to spe-cific sources and take their values from abstract valueranges between 0 and 1.
Epistemic modality 0 meansthat the event did not take place.33 Ontological semantics recognizes modalities other than epis-temic and potential.
The inventory of modalities continues togrow and develop ?
witness the differences between the ac-counts in Nirenburg and Raskin 2003, Section 8.5.3. and inNirenburg et al (in preparation).prevent-v1syn-strucroot  $var0cat  verbsubjectroot  $var1cat  noundirect-objectroot  $var2cat  nounsem-strucEVENTAGENT       ^$var1sem           HUMANrelaxable-to  ORGANIZATIONPRECONDITION    ^$var2sem EVENTmodality potential  > .5epistemic < 1EFFECT      ^$var2sem EVENTmodality epistemic 0The second sense of prevent is the one used, for exam-ple, in Negotiations prevented a strike.
Here the mean-ing is expressed as a CHANGE-EVENT: the event that isthe meaning of the subject (^$var1) caused this changeevent; there was a potential for ^$var2 to take place; asa result of this change, ^$var2 has not taken place (itsepistemic modality is 0).
There is no need for overtspecification of time dependencies, as causality deter-mines temporal ordering.
(Note that the syntactic ana-lyzer currently used in OS recognizes certain ?ingforms, e.g., striking, as nouns.
)prevent-v2syn-strucroot  $var0cat  verbsubjectroot  $var1cat  noundirect-objectroot  $var2cat  nounsem-strucCHANGE-EVENTPRECONDITION    ^$var2sem     EVENTmodality  potential  > .5epistemic < 1EFFECT        ^$var2sem      EVENTmodality  epistemic 0CAUSED-BY^$var1sem   EVENTThe above entries are simplified.
For instance, wedid not show the treatment of generic, timeless state-ments like Being well prepared prevents unpleasantsurprises, whose meaning specification does not in-volve creating a specific instance of either of the twoevents but rather a so-called generic ontological in-stance representing any element of the class (e.g., tigersin tigers are ferocious).
A special heuristic rule will beused in this case to determine whether generic ontologi-cal instances are appropriate.
One clue that casts a votefor the generic reading is the present simple form of theverb, which is often associated with timelessness.
An-other is the indefiniteness of the direct object.
However,these clues do not always guarantee that the statementis indeed generalized.
One way to ascertain this fact isto call a special procedure to check whether ^$var2 co-refers with a specific concept instance either in theTMR or in the fact repository.Procedures such as the above are called meaningprocedures.
For example, the meaning of intensifiers(e.g., very) is best expressed in terms of a meaning pro-cedure ?
take the meaning of the adjective modified byvery; it will be expressed as a range on some scale, e.g.,the meaning of dim will be the range (<> 0.1 0.4) onthe scale of BRIGHTNESS.
Relative values of such prop-erties are expressed as ranges on abstract scales be-tween 0 and 1.
The expected absolute boundaries forsuch properties will be defined in the corresponding on-tological concepts.
Thus, while the HEIGHT property ofHUMAN-ADULT may be marked as the range between145 and 200 cm (these values are, in fact, overridable),the corresponding values for PROFESSIONAL-BASKETBALL-PLAYER may be between 180 and 230 cm.Values on relative scales can, thus, be resolved toranges on absolute scales.
The meaning of very roughlyamounts to narrowing the range toward its extreme.The presence of meaning procedures demonstratesthat OS combines declarative and procedural semantics:on the one hand, knowledge in OS is separated from theprocessing engines; on the other hand, meaning is cal-culated dynamically.2.
Some Distinguishing Features of OSThe above, we hope, has presented an informativeglimpse into the representational, descriptive and proc-essing concerns of OS.
Space restrictions prevent usfrom describing the many remaining elements of anddecisions taken in OS.
At this point, we?ll attempt tosummarize important preferences and tenets of our ?op-erational philosophy?
that distinguish our work fromother work and generally characterize OS.The overall emphasis in the development of OS isgiven to:?
maintaining and improving a comprehensive mean-ing extraction and representation system;?
gradual enhancement of both the breadth and thedepth of description (which stand in a trade-off re-lation relative to a given amount of resources)through a large-scale descriptive effort;?
formulation of heuristics for extracting intendedmeanings and supporting task-oriented processing;?
attaining adequate descriptive coverage of the massof ?uninteresting?
linguistic phenomena that ac-count for a huge majority of occurrences in texts.Relatively lower (though not zero) priorities are ac-corded to the study of:?
capabilities of the representation medium;?
computational complexity of the processes;?
consistency of the knowledge base;?
individual ?interesting?
linguistic cases that are dif-ficult for people to describe and judge (e.g., com-plex issues in quantification).Ontological semantics is a comprehensive approach thatdoes not relinquish responsibility for attaining its goalto other areas of study or rely on prerequisites that areeither beyond the reach of the current state of the art orare expected as a result of large amounts of research byothers.
It is for this reason that OS includes in its pur-view all the preprocessing stages in text analysis: to-kenization, morphology and syntax.
Moreover, its pur-view is broader than that of traditional formal or lexicalsemantics: for example, it does not see a need to sepa-rate pragmatics and discourse into separate disciplines(allowing, for example, formal semanticists to bypassmany kinds of meaning description on account of theirbeing outside the purview of their theories).Ontological semantics seeks to incorporate all therelevant topics often studied in relative isolation.
Thesetopics include language- and knowledge-related issuessuch as aspect, modality, time, causality, quantification,text-level relations, non-literal meaning, style, deduc-tive and abductive presuppositions and entailments,nominal compounds, prepositional phrase attachment,the meaning of adjectives that do not semantically mod-ify their syntactic governors, etc.
They also include ar-chitecture and control issues connected with optimizingthe search for the best semantic analysis in the poten-tially very large candidate space.
We strive to developour own accounts (we call them ?microtheories?)
foreach such topic exploiting the research findings of oth-ers and modifying and expanding them in accordancewith the practical goals and needs of OS.
Unfortunately,no feasible solutions have been proposed in the litera-ture for most microtheories that we need: much of thereported work is devoted to rather narrow topics (forexample, meanings of single words at a grain size be-yond the capabilities ?
and often the needs ?
of the ana-lyzer) and still other proposals invent very complexformal notations without any emphasis on heuristics forthe assignment of values to language phenomena.
(In-deed, one of the knowledge acquisition rules of thumbin OS is not to include in the descriptions everythingthat can be said, only those parts that are actually use-ful.
)The purpose of all the microtheories is to help de-rive text meaning.
Some microtheories are driven bythe needs of the meaning representation (its content, notformat).
For example, all TMRs must at least attempt toresolve the deictic indices (speaker, hearer, place, time)and, more broadly, all references.
Other microtheoriesare forward-chaining ?
they are triggered not by theneeds of the output but by the occurrences of certainlexical and syntactic configurations in the input ?
forexample, nominal compounds.
Developing microtheo-ries means acquiring heuristic rules for the treatment ofspecific phenomena.
In OS, the strategy is to use anyand all potentially useful kinds of knowledge in the left-hand sides of such rules.
Some of this knowledge is en-coded in the static knowledge sources of the system.Other sources of heuristics include syntactic or morpho-logical information in the input and general propertiesof the input document right down to its formattingproperties.
Finally, the heuristic rules can use evidencefrom various co-occurrence measures for subsets of in-put in a corpus.
We believe that supporting heuristicprocessing in a computational-semantic system is oneof the more useful applications of corpus linguistics.3.
Balancing Desiderata and Practical Con-straintsOntological-semantic descriptive work is guided by thedesiderata of breadth and depth of coverage.
Constrain-ing these, however, are the twin limitations of humanresource availability and the computability of knowl-edge.
In this section we present a number of resourceacquisition choices, each of which is driven by practicalneeds and represents a whole class of phenomenawhose continued development occupies the day-to-daywork in OS.
We fully understand that it is inappropriateto talk about a particular ontology or even a particularlexicon as ?the correct one.?
While some constraints onontology construction may be considered universal,there are many other equally acceptable choices inspecifying the world model to be used both as the meta-language for text meaning description and as a majorsource for knowledge to support reasoning.Grain size of static knowledge specification.
Highprecision in semantic description always incurs in-creased acquisition time and often increased processingchallenges as well.
For this reason, OS explicitly pre-fers well selected simplifications, defined as those notexpected to noticeably impoverish the usefulness of theresulting TMR.
For example, about in the meaningtravel about Europe is mapped to the spatial relationINSIDE-OF rather than a) forcing the inclusion of a newconcept with precisely this meaning or b) adding to thelexicon entry complex inferences or effects ?
e.g., see-ing numerous different places.
Similarly, the meaningalong as in trees grew along the road is mapped to BE-SIDE, despite the loss of the precondition that the treescover some unspecified stretch of the road interpretedby the speaker as significant.Such conscious simplifications ?
which, we mustemphasize, are always open to finer representationgiven the needs of an application and the resulting deci-sion to thus deploy resources ?
apply to all aspects ofknowledge acquisition.
For example, due to the quag-mire of semantic and pragmatic issues involved in in-terpreting conjunctions like and and but when theyserve to  link clauses, we level their semantics, creatinga separate TMR for each clause linked by the functionalbinder ?conjoined?.
Contrast this with our treatment ofsince, because, so that, etc., which are less ambiguous,more important for reasoning, and are thus rendered bythe concepts CAUSED-BY, EFFECT, and ENABLEMENT, asapplicable.Another example of methodical simplification con-cerns the expression of time.
Temporal properties ofTMR elements are expressed using a very ?lean?
set ofparameters: the ontological relations BEFORE (<) andLONG-BEFORE (<<) and their inverses AFTER (>) andLONG-AFTER (>>), the concepts START-TIME, END-TIME,SPEAKER-TIME, DURATION, and time measurement units.We also define two meaning procedures ?
find-anchor-time and combine-time.
find-anchor-time attempts todetermine the deictic index, or anchor, relative to whichother times are defined in the text.
It uses a variety ofheuristics, including times of events mentioned in thetext as well as the dateline of the text, if available.
find-anchor-time may fail to determine the anchor, in whichcase, at present, the time statements in TMRs are maderelative to an unknown time of speech, t0.
combine-timetakes as input an anchor time and an expression denot-ing a time period, one of whose ends is the anchor, andreturns the (actual or relative) time of the combination.As an illustration, below are abbreviated meaningrepresentations of some time-related word and phrasesenses:after-p4 (as in ?ten hours after the operation?
)time (combine-time ^$var2.time ^$var3 after)for-p5 (as in ?dribbling for thirty seconds?
)time (duration $var2 (sem TEMPORAL-UNIT))for-p6 (as in ?for the time being?
)time (find-anchor-time)Always open to reconsideration, these and other suchdecisions in favor of a coarse grain size, at a minimum,help to drive forward the work of supporting our broad-coverage text processing system.Economy of expressive means.
One tenet of OS is toavoid a proliferation of ontological concepts, in linewith the recommendation by Hayes (1979) that the ratioof knowledge elements used to describe a set of ele-ments of the world to the number of these latter ele-ments must be kept as low as possible.
The factors in-volved in deciding when and when not to introduce anew concept constitute something of a cognitive art toosubtle to capture in a thumbnail sketch of a short article;however, a contrastive example might provide someinsight.Consider spatial after, as in the first house after thestop sign.
Previous examples showed cases in which anontologically available spatial relation was deemedclose enough to describe given lexical entities.
In thiscase, though, there is no such relation: NEXT-TO, thebest candidate, is inappropriate since the house could bemiles after the stop sign.
One option would be to de-scribe the semantics as a script: the first house one seesafter passing the stop sign during a motion event ?
butthis was judged too complex.
Instead, we went aheadand added a new spatial relation, AFTER-SPATIAL, to ac-commodate this and synonymous lexical items from allthe languages that express such a relation (we must em-phasize that the ontology is language independent).
Onereason we did not expend the effort to more fully de-scribe the semantics of after is that we have not yet de-veloped a sophisticated microtheory of spatial relations.Therefore, we are not currently poised to make complexinferences about spatial relations in texts.
However,when we do ultimately embark upon a microtheory ofspatial relations ?
either stimulated by the demands ofan application or through the natural overall progres-sion of ontological-semantic research ?
we may recon-sider whether a descriptive rather than an ontologicalrepresentation of after would be most beneficial.The opposite decision was taken in the case ofabout and its synonyms when they convey approxima-tion.
Approximation is too important for reasoning forus to make an ontological concept and consider all ap-proximated entities thus resolved.
Instead, we needmeaning procedures to fix ranges on scales.
Preliminaryanalysis suggested that a 7% expansion either wayaround a magnitude works reasonably well in mostcases: e.g., about 5 gallons is 4.65 to 5.35 gallons;about 150 lbs.
is 139.5 to 160.5 pounds.
However the7% rule produces bad results in some instances: e.g.,resolving about 6 feet tall to 5?7??-6?5??
is bad.
Whatwe need, instead, is 7% of the amount by which peo-ple?s heights can vary, which is about 2 feet.
The 7%rule applied to 2 feet yields 5?10.5??
to 6?1.5??
?
a muchbetter reflection of reality.
Another failure of thestraightforward 7% rule involves clock time.
For prag-matic reasons, saying around 10  or around 5:30 im-plies 10 minutes in either direction, whereas around5:15 permits a smaller range and around 7:07 a smallerrange still.
This example of clock time ?
work on whichis still under way ?
shows that some issues consideredto be of crucial import to TMRs and the reasoning theysupport are immediate priorities in OS despite the over-head of research and implementation they impose.Including results of abductive reasoning in TMRs.To offset any impression that the current state of devel-opment of OS always opts for shallower analysis, weoffer an example relating to our evolving treatment ofverbs that that have a relatively general meaning despitethe fact that, in a given context, speakers understandthem to carry more meaning.Consider once again, for example, make in the senseof create an artifact (i.e., a man-made physical object).This sense of make, which is only one of many, cancontextually imply different specific types of eventsincluding but not limited to baking (make a cake),sculpting (make a sculpture), recording (make a CD),filming (make a film) and knitting (make a sweater).The verbal sense of make that covers all of these exam-ples says that make is a CREATE-ARTIFACT event whosesubject is HUMAN and whose object is an ARTIFACT.Representing this meaning of make as CREATE-ARTIFACT captures all the meaning that is explicitlyconveyed by this lexical item.
In that sense, our analy-sis should be considered complete.
However, we as us-ers of language know much more precisely what activ-ity is actually carried out in making a cake: by default,it?s baking.
When we set about to reflect this knowl-edge in the ontological-semantic knowledge resources,we list CAKE as a default THEME of BAKE.
Whereas in-heritance in the ontology allows the match of CAKEwith CREATE-ARTIFACT, a more exact, constrainedmatch obtains between CAKE and BAKE.
(Note thatCAKE matches CREATE-ARTIFACT because the THEME ofCREATE-ARTIFACT includes a union of the fillers ofTHEME of all its descendants, which include, amongmany others, BUILD, PREPARE-FOOD, MAKE-LAW, AU-THOR-EVENT, FILM-EVENT, RECORD-SOUND, RECORD-TEXT, CREATE-FABRIC-MATERIAL-ARTIFACT, etc., aswell as their descendants.
)An important question at this point is whether weshould act upon the extra knowledge that cakes are usu-ally baked or simply allow the correct, though morevague direct TMR of the input text to stand.
The answerdepends on the circumstances of an application.
For ex-ample, in machine translation, all other things beingequal, if the direct TMR can be used as the input tosuccessful target text generation, there is no need forany specialization procedure.
There are, however, manycases in which such a procedure would improve theperformance of various analysis tasks.
For example,such a procedure helps to resolve certain ambiguities,e.g., by preferring the oven to the stove sense of rangein John prepared the cake using the range?see a de-tailed description in Mahesh et al, 1997.
It also helpsin the selection and resolution of referring expressions.For example, in John made a good cake though theoven was not hot enough, the definite referring expres-sion the oven is legitimately used for a discourse-initialreference?and, therefore, no co-reference resolutionprocedure should be called?because the ontology listsOVEN as the default instrument of BAKE.
This type ofinference is ultimately made possible by the availabilityof ontological scripts.In principle, if we decide to carry out proactive ab-ductive meaning specialization whenever we comeacross constructions whose verbs have rather generalmeanings (note, incidentally, that many such verbs havemeanings that are even vaguer and less specific thanthat of make?consider, for example, such verbs as use,do, have or get), we can call the meaning procedureseek-specification in each such case.
However, the ana-lyzer currently triggers specialization exclusively on anas-needed basis, not proactively because proactive evo-cation of seek-specification will result in conclusionsthat might never be used.Ontological semantics defines many types of mean-ing procedures, and their application results in bothmore precise and more fine-grain specification of textmeaning.
In fact, when all meaning procedures are ap-plied, the resulting TMR will contain information thatwas both overtly present in the original text and infor-mation abductively inferred form the backgroundknowledge of the system.
We call the former type ofTMR basic and the latter, extended.4.
Summary, Status and Future WorkIn this paper, we first briefly and informally illustrated,using a few annotated examples, the static and dynamicknowledge resources of OS.
We then presented themain motivations and desiderata of our approach anddiscussed issues relating to how to make ontological-semantic applications feasible through judicious step-wise enhancement of static and dynamic knowledgesources while at all times maintaining a working sys-tem.The latest implementation of OS uses an ontologyof about 6,500 concepts each of which is a named col-lection of property-value pairs (on average, every con-cept in the current ontology has 16 properties definedfor it), with the ?meta-metalanguage?
of propertiesnumbering at the time of this writing about 350 rela-tions and attributes.
The current English lexicon isabout 35,000 entries and growing.
There are also Span-ish and Chinese lexicons, and lexicons for other lan-guages are under construction.
We have also developeda collection of ever growing onomasticons.
The Englishonomasticon at present contains over half a million en-tries.
In addition to the lexicons and the ontology, thestatic knowledge sources in OS also include morpho-logical and syntactic grammars to support text analysisand generation, as well as a growing fact repository.We are actively developing a variety of ontologi-cal-semantic microtheories including microtheories oftime, quantification, approximateness, issues relating tosets and ordered lists, several different aspects of refer-ence, modality, discourse cohesion, script-based abduc-tive reasoning.
We are also developing pedagogical mi-crotheories devoted to ontology, lexicon and script ac-quisition.
Additional microtheories are planned for de-velopment as soon as the current ones reach minimumutility levels.
We continue to augment the basic knowl-edge resources and are investigating methods of usingcurrent knowledge resources to speed up acquisition ofknowledge resources for languages other than those al-ready in the system.We are also developing a system for the automaticextraction of fact repository elements from TMRs.
Withthe help of this system, we plan to acquire a large factrepository that will be used as the search space in theontological-semantic approach to information extrac-tion and question answering.Many difficulties still remain in the path towardhigh-quality, broad-coverage extraction and manipula-tion of meaning from texts.
Still, we believe that theontological-semantic approach is on the right path to-ward this goal ?
mainly because it is predicated on de-tailed and flexible descriptive work on language andworld knowledge, does not rely on unattainable or un-computable prerequisites and is driven by the require-ments of specific high-end computational-linguistic ap-plications.ReferencesHayes, P. 1979.
The Naive Physics Manifesto.
In: Mitchie, D(ed.
), Expert Systems in the Microelectronic Age.
Edin-burgh: Edinburgh University Press.Mahesh, K., S. Nirenburg, and S. Beale 1997.
If You Have It,Flaunt It: Using Full Ontological Knowledge for WordSense Disambiguation.
Proceedings of TMI-97, Santa Fe,NM, 1-9.Nirenburg, S., M. McShane and S. Beale (in preparation).
Be-yond Basic Semantic Dependencies I: The Microtheory ofModality in Ontological Semantics.Nirenburg, S. and V. Raskin.
2003.
Ontological Semantics.MIT Press (forthcoming).Onyshkevych, B.
1997.
An Ontological-Semantic Frameworkfor Text Analysis.
Unpublished Ph.D. thesis, Center forMachine Translation, Carnegie Mellon University, Pitts-burgh, PA.
