Exploring adjectival modification in biomedical discourseacross two genresOlivier Bodenreider Serguei V. PakhomovLister Hill National Centerfor Biomedical CommunicationsNational Library of MedicineBethesda, Maryland, 20894 ?
USADivision of Medical Informatics ResearchDepartment of Health Sciences ResearchMayo ClinicRochester, Minnesota, 55905 ?
USAolivier@nlm.nih.gov Pakhomov.Serguei@mayo.eduAbstractObjectives: To explore the phenomenonof adjectival modification in biomedicaldiscourse across two genres: the biomedi-cal literature and patient records.
Meth-ods: Adjectival modifiers are removedfrom phrases extracted from two corpora(three million noun phrases extractedfrom MEDLINE, on the one hand, andclinical notes from the Mayo Clinic, onthe other).
The original phrases, the adjec-tives extracted, and the resulting demodi-fied phrases are compared across the twocorpora after normalization.
Quantitativecomparisons (frequency of occurrence)are performed on the whole domain.Qualitative comparisons are performed onthe two subdomains (disorders and proce-dures).
Results: Although the averagenumber of adjectives per phrase is equiva-lent in the two corpora (1.4), there aremore adjective types in MAYO than inMEDLINE for disorders and procedures.For disorder phrases, the 38% of adjectivetypes common to the two corpora accountfor 85% of the occurrences.
The predomi-nance of adjectives in one corpus is ana-lyzed.
Discussion: Potential applicationsof this approach are discussed, namelyterminology acquisition, information re-trieval, and genre characterization.1 IntroductionIn previous studies, we demonstrated the feasi-bility of using NLP techniques such as shallowparsing of adjectival modification for identifyinghierarchical relations among biomedical terms(Bodenreider et al, 2001) and for extending anexisting biomedical terminology (Bodenreider etal., 2002).
In these studies, the corpus was bio-medical terminology or phrases extracted from thebiomedical literature.Other authors have explored adjectival modifi-cation in a clinical corpus.
Chute and Elkin (1997)note, based on empirical observation of clinicaldata, that many clinical terms are accompanied bymodifiers, including adjectives.
The authors makea distinction between clinical modifiers (such aschronic, severe, and acute) and operational or ad-ministrative qualifiers (such as no evidence of, his-tory of, and status post).
It appears that the class ofclinical modifiers consists primarily of adjectivesthat provide specific information regarding condi-tion and are distributed on a scale.
They suggestthat operational modifiers be kept separate fromthe terms themselves in order to avoid combinato-rial explosion.Taking this idea one step further, we believethat, besides operational modifiers, other adjectivesencountered in clinical phrases could receive aspecial treatment in applications such as informa-tion retrieval.
For example, adjectives expressingnuances useful only in the context of clinical carecould be removed from the phrase when searchingthe biomedical literature.
This is the case of adjec-tives expressing degree of certainty (e.g., prob-able).
In other cases, adjectives specific to clinicalphrases can be mapped to synonyms or closelyrelated modifiers (e.g., greenish sputum, greensputum).
The ability to map stylistic variations ofthe same adjective becomes especially important toestablishing links between clinical records and sci-entific literature, which actually has significantimplications for improving patient care in clinicalpractice as well as health science research.
Finally,adjectives absent from the biomedical literature orterminologies may denote recent phenomena, notyet integrated in terminologies.Knowledge about these classes of adjectivesmay help map across genres.
Conversely, studyingadjectival modification across genres may helpidentify adjectives whose representation variesacross genres, possibly denoting one of these phe-nomena.In the present paper, we explore the phenome-non of adjectival modification across two genres:the biomedical literature and patient records.
Theexpected outcome of this study is to obtain a bettercharacterization of adjectival modification in bio-medical phrases of various origins, in order to fullytake advantage of this phenomenon in applicationssuch as the automatic construction of terminologyand ontology resources and the retrieval of clinicaldocuments.2 BackgroundAdjectival modification as well as lexical seman-tics of adjectives has been studied extensively inthe linguistic and NLP literature.
Most approacheshave been directed at creating adjective taxono-mies and other ways of classifying and represent-ing adjectives according to their properties andfunction.
Raskin and Niernburg (1995) provide acomprehensive overview of the various approachesthat have been taken to description, classificationand representation of adjectives.From the NLP standpoint, Fellbaum (1993) par-titions adjectives in WordNet?
1 into two largeclasses: descriptive and relational.
Descriptive ad-jectives ?ascribe a value of an attribute to a noun?
(p.27) (i.e., big child) while relational adjectivesare usually derived from and are somehow associ-ated with a noun (i.e., musical child).
Anotherprominent distinction has to do with whether anadjective can express continuous (scalar) or dis-crete (non-scalar) values.
Raskin and Niernburg(1996) point out that for text meaning representa-1www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/tion for computational semantics, the most impor-tant distinction to make is between scalar and non-scalar.
They also present a method for incorporat-ing the semantics of the modifier adjective into thesemantics of the modified noun by representingnouns as frames with elements such asATTRIBUTE_SIZE than can be filled in by thesemantic content of the modifying adjectives.The major contribution of this study is to ex-plore adjectival modification across two genres inthe biomedical domain.
Our approach is essentiallypractical and oriented towards applied perspec-tives.3 ResourcesThe two genres compared in this study are thebiomedical literature and patient records.
Moreprecisely, we use MEDLINE as our bibliographiccorpus and clinical notes recorded at the MayoClinic as our clinical corpus.MEDLINE?
2, the U.S. National Library ofMedicine?s (NLM) premier bibliographic database,contains over twelve million references to articlesfrom more than 4,600 worldwide journals in lifesciences with a concentration on biomedicine.Srinivasan et al (2002) performed a shallow syn-tactic analysis on the entire MEDLINE collection,using only titles and abstracts in English.
From the175 million noun phrase types identified in theirstudy, we selected the subset of ?simple?
phrases,i.e., noun phrases excluding prepositional modifi-cation or any other complex feature.
In this study,a randomly selected subset of three million of thesesimple noun phrases constitutes our bibliographiccorpus.The Mayo Clinic is a group medical practice inthe United States and spans all recognized medicalcare settings and specialties.
Currently over 50,000patient visits occur each week that generate 40,000medical documentation entries in Mayo electronicrecord that principally consists of text narratives.The current size of the collection is approachingfifteen million notes and each note has on average200 to 250 words of text.
For this study we consid-ered only the most current sample of the clinicalnotes collection ?
1,783,377 documents recordedin 2002.
Only simple noun phrases of the sametype extracted from MEDLINE were extracted2www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgifrom this corpus, resulting in a set of 9,665,942phrases.
A randomly selected subset of three mil-lion of these simple noun phrases constitutes ourclinical corpus.In both cases, the noun phrases were first nor-malized for case, so that the two subsets studiedrepresent three million noun phrase types each.Another resource used in this study is the Uni-fied Medical Language System?
3 (UMLS?)Metathesaurus?.
The Metathesaurus, also devel-oped by NLM, is organized by concept or mean-ing.
A concept is defined as a cluster of termsrepresenting the same meaning (synonyms, lexicalvariants, acronyms, translations).
The 14th edition(2003AA) of the UMLS Metathesaurus containsover 1.75 million unique English terms drawn frommore than sixty families of medical vocabularies,and organized in some 875,000 concepts.In the UMLS, each concept is categorized bysemantic types from the Semantic Network.McCray et al (2001) designed groupings of se-mantic types that provide a partition the Metathe-saurus and, therefore, can be used to extractconsistent sets of concepts corresponding to a sub-domain, such as disorders or procedures.4 MethodsIn order to compare the linguistic phenomenon ofadjectival modification across two corpora of nounphrases, we first extracted the adjectives aftersubmitting the phrases to a shallow syntacticanalysis and normalizing the head noun of thephrase for inflectional variation.
Then, we com-pared across corpora the adjectives on the one handand the ?demodified?
noun phrases4 (i.e., nounphrases from which the adjectives have been re-moved) on the other.
In order to address the size ofthese corpora, we limited the focus of our study toa significant subdomain of clinical medicine: dis-orders and procedures.4.1 Extracting adjectivesFigure 1 illustrates the sequence of methodsused for extracting adjectives from the originalnoun phrases.
It also presents the number ofphrases present before and after each of the foursteps detailed below.3umlsinfo.nlm.nih.gov4also referred to as ?nested terms?
in the literatureStep 1.
Syntactic analysisThe phrases in our bibliographic and clinicalsamples were then submitted to an underspecifiedsyntactic analysis described by Rindflesch et al(2000) that draws on a stochastic tagger (see(Cutting et al, 1992) for details) as well as theSPECIALIST Lexicon5, a large syntactic lexiconof both general and medical English that is distrib-uted with the UMLS.
Although not perfect, thiscombination of resources effectively addresses thephenomenon of part-of-speech ambiguity in Eng-lish.The resulting syntactic structure identifies thehead and modifiers for the noun phrase analyzed.Each modifier is also labeled as being adjectival,adverbial, or nominal.
Although all types of modi-fication in the simple English noun phrase werelabeled, only adjectives and nouns were selectedfor further analysis in this study.
For example, thephrase abnormal esophageal motility study wasanalyzed as:[[mod([abnormal,adj]),mod([esophageal,adj]),mod([motility,noun]),head([study,noun])]]The result of the syntactic analysis was used toselect the noun phrases suitable for studying theadjectival modification phenomenon, i.e., phraseshaving the following structure: (adj+, noun*,head).
The phrase is required to start with an ad-jectival modifier, possibly followed by other adjec-tives and end with a head noun, possibly precededby other nouns.
This specification excludes bothsimple phrases (e.g., one isolated noun) and com-plex phrases, not suitable for our analysis.Step 2.
Normalizing the head nounIn order to compare phrases across corpora, wenormalized the head noun for inflectional variationin each noun phrase.
As a result, the two nounphrases cerebrovascular accident (in MAYO) andcerebrovascular accidents (in MEDLINE) are con-sidered equivalent.
When both the singular and theplural form of a phrase appear in the same corpus,only the singular form is considered for furtherprocessing.
In practice, to normalize head nouns,we used the program lvg6, developed at NLM anddistributed with the UMLS.5umlslex.nlm.nih.gov6umlslex.nlm.nih.gov (lvg parameters used: -f:b -CR:oc)1,329,225(adj+, noun*, head)phrases3,000,000randomly selected?simple?
phrasessyntacticanalysis1,322,403normalized phrasesnormalizehead nounremoveadjectivesselect sub-domain2,826,395demodifiedphrases72,324adjectivetypesDisorders18,370 adjectives279,182 dem.
termsProcedures16,098 adjectives160,207 dem.
terms1,641,350(adj+, noun*, head)phrases3,000,000randomly selected?simple?
phrasessyntacticanalysis1,575,478normalized phrasesnormalizehead nounremoveadjectives3,092,340demodifiedphrases44,268adjectivetypesselect sub-domainDisorders16,486 adjectives714,257 dem.
termsProcedures11,630 adjectives242,326 dem.
termsFigure 1.
Summary of the methods.Step 3.
Creating demodified phrasesWhen adjectives are identified in a phrase O, a setof demodified phrases {T1, T2,?,Tn} is created byremoving from phrase O any combinations of ad-jectival modifiers found in it.
While the structureof the demodified phrases remains syntacticallycorrect, the semantics of some phrases may beanomalous, especially when adjectives other thanthe leftmost are removed.
Since most of them aresemantically valid, we found it convenient to keepall demodified phrases for further analysis.
De-modified phrases with incorrect semantics will befiltered out later in the experiment, since they willappear with a lower frequency.The number of demodified phrases derivedfrom a given phrase is 2m ?
1, m being the numberof adjectives in the phrase.
For example, the phraseacute respiratory infection syndrome starts withthe two adjectival modifiers acute and respiratory,so that the following three demodified phrases aregenerated respiratory infection syndrome, acuteinfection syndrome, and infection syndrome.Step 4.
Restricting to disorders and proceduresBecause of the large size of the two corpora, weonly performed a quantitative analysis of adjectivalmodification for the whole biomedical domain.
Werestricted the qualitative study to disorders andprocedures.
These represent a significant subdo-main of clinical medicine, yet are small enough tobe able to perform at least a somewhat detailedanalysis.All phrases, original and demodified, weremapped to the UMLS Metathesaurus by first at-tempting an exact match between phrases andMetathesaurus concepts.
If an exact match failed,normalization was then attempted.
This processmakes the input and target terms potentially com-patible by eliminating such inessential differencesas inflection, case and hyphen variation, as well asword order variation.
From the phrases mapping tosome concept in the UMLS, we selected those forwhich the semantic category of the conceptmapped to corresponded to the subdomains of in-terest.
In practice, for a phrase to be considered aprocedure, it had to map to a UMLS concept andthe semantic type of this concept had to belong tothe semantic group Procedures.
The same principlewas used for selecting disorders, using the seman-tic group Disorders.
For example, the demodifiedphrase arthroscopic surgery (derived from decom-pressive arthroscopic surgery) is considered a pro-cedure because it maps, as a synonym, to theconcept Surgical Procedures, Arthroscopic, whosesemantic group is Procedures.
Exceptionally (32UMLS concepts), a term may name both a disorderand a procedure.
These terms are simply countedtwice, once with Disorders and once with Proce-dures.4.2 Comparing corporaIn order to investigate the characteristics of eachcorpus (noun phrases extracted from the biomedi-cal literature and from patient records), we usedtwo kinds of comparisons: quantitative and qualita-tive.
The quantitative part consists of comparingfrequencies of adjectives and demodified phrasesacross corpora, for the whole corpus as well as onspecific subsets (Disorders and Procedures).
In thequalitative part, we examined only phrases formthe subdomains of Disorders and Procedures.Quantitative comparisonsAs mentioned earlier, the head noun of each phrasewas normalized for inflectional variation (see Step2 above).
The purpose of normalizing the headnoun is two-fold.
First, it contributes to identifyingphrase variants within each corpus, resulting inaccurate counts of phrase types after duplicates hadbeen removed.
Second, it provides a simple means(string match) for identifying equivalent phrasesacross corpora.We computed the number of original phrases,adjectives, and demodified phrases in each corpus,counting tokens and types in each category.
Addi-tionally, we explored similarities between the twogenres by computing the number of phrases andadjectives common to the two corpora (intersec-tion).
Finally, we computed the number of phraseand adjective types for the two corpora taken to-gether (union) in order to better characterize thewhole domain.
From these frequencies, we derivedadditional parameters such as the ratio of the num-ber of adjectives to the number of original phrases.Qualitative comparisonsWe first extracted adjectives from the originalphrases corresponding to Disorders and Proceduresand computed their frequency of occurrence.
Be-cause phrases must map to a UMLS term in orderto be identified as members of a subdomain, onlythe adjectives present in biomedical terms can beanalyzed.
For this reason, their rank will be studiedrather than their frequency7.In order to better represent the whole spectrumof adjectives present in the two corpora, we thenturned to the demodified phrases instead of theoriginal phrases.
In this second part, the condition7rank n simply corresponds to the nth highest frequencyfor a phrase to be considered a member of a sub-domain was that the demodified phrase (not theentire phrase) map to a UMLS term.
However,some adjectives may be overrepresented when sev-eral demodified phrases map to a UMLS term inthe subdomains considered.
For example, thephrase abdominal vascular reconstructive surgery,once demodified, maps to both vascular surgery(with modifiers abdominal and reconstructive) andreconstructive surgery (with modifiers abdominaland vascular).
In this case, the adjective abdominalwas counted twice.For each adjective, we determined the corpus inwhich it was predominantly used.
If more than halfof the occurrences appear in one corpus, the adjec-tive is considered predominant in this corpus.When more than half of the occurrences appear inboth corpora, the adjective is considered commonto the two corpora.5 Results5.1 Extracting adjectivesOut of the 3 million simple noun phrases randomlyselected from MEDLINE, 1,322,403 phrase typeswere selected for further processing.
Out of these,72,324 adjective types (1,916,530 tokens) wereextracted and 2,826,395 demodified phrases weregenerated.
1,575,478 phrase types were selectedfrom the 3 million noun phrases in the MAYOcorpus.
Out of these, 44,268 adjective types(2,209,778 tokens) were extracted and 3,092,340demodified phrases were generated.
Details aboutthe number of phrases selected at each step of theprocessing are given in Figure 1.5.2 Comparing corporaQuantitative resultsThe number of original phrases (Table 1), adjec-tives (Table 2), and demodified phrases (Table 3)are presented below in tabular format.
Counts arebroken down by corpus (MEDLINE and MAYO), onthe one hand, and by subdomain (Disorders andProdedures), on the other.
Tables also include re-sults obtained on the whole corpus (All), i.e., with-out subsetting, and on the union of the two corpora(Together).
Except for original phrases (Table 1),which, by design, are phrase types, Table 2 andTable 3 contain the numbers of types (upper left)and tokens (lower right).The number of adjectives per phrase rangesfrom 1 to 16 in MEDLINE and from 1 to 7 forMAYO when the whole corpus is considered.
Themaximum number of adjectives per phrase is 6 or 7for the various subsets.
Phrases containing so manyadjectives may look syntactically and semanticallysuspicious.
While some of them denote extractionerrors (often due to inappropriate part-of-speechtagging), most correspond to valid phrases and re-flect the complexity of the biomedical domain(e.g., diastolic systolic mean middle cerebral ar-tery blood flow velocity and combined enteral par-enteral synthetic hypercaloric nutrition).
Thedistribution of the number of adjectives per phraseis plotted in Figure 2.Although the number of phrases processed isslightly more important for MAYO (1,575,476)than for MEDLINE (1,322,403), and although theratio of the number of adjective tokens extracted tothe number of original phrases is roughly similar inthe two corpora (1.45 for MEDLINE and 1.40 forMAYO), there are significantly more adjectivetypes in MEDLINE (72,324) than in MAYO(44,268).
A difference in the opposite direction isobserved in the Disorders and Procedures subsets,where the number of adjective types is higher inMAYO than in MEDLINE, while the average numberof adjectives per phrase is still slightly higher inMEDLINE (1.27 vs. 1.21 for Disorders and 1.21 vs.1.14 for Procedures).
This finding requires furtherinvestigation.Despite reducing the variation by normalizinghead nouns for inflection, less than 3% of theoriginal phrases are common to the two corpora.This proportion is significantly higher for the sub-set of disorder and procedure phrases where up toone third of MEDLINE phrases can be found in theMAYO corpus.
Not surprisingly, the proportion ofadjectives in common is higher.
Overall, 44% ofthe adjectives in MAYO are also found in MEDLINEand up to 75% of the adjectives in MEDLINE arealso found in MAYO (for disorders).
Interestingly,the adjectives common to both corpora are also themost frequent.
For example, as shown in Table 2,the 1,584 adjective types in common in the subsetDisorders account for 38% of all adjectives forDisorders (4,148), but the corresponding 25,557adjective tokens account for 85% of all tokens(30,046).Table 1 ?
Number of original phrases (types), forDisorders (Di) and Procedures (Pr)MEDLINE MAYO Together CommonDi 4,941 19,641 22,774 1,808Pr 1,534 4,959 6,028 465All 1,322,403 1,575,476 2,857,848 40,031Table 2 ?
Number of adjectives (types [top] andtokens [bottom]), for Disorders (Di) and Proce-dures (Pr)MEDLINE MAYO Together Common2,048   3,684   4,148   1,584 Di 6,299 23,747 30,046 25,557902   1,499   1,790      611 Pr 1,852 5,667 7,519 5,68372,324 44,268 97,762 18,830 All 1,916,530 2,209,778 4,126,308 3,885,852Table 3 ?
Number of demodified phrases (types[top] and tokens [bottom]), for Disorders (Di) andProcedures (Pr)MEDLINE MAYO Together Common22,031 24,719 34,302 12,448 Di 174,548 463,097 637,645 571,0419,850   8,595 13,691 4,754 Pr 101,323 166,180 267,503 241,7901,487,889 1,047,772 2,403,504 132,157 All 2,826,395 3,092,340 5,918,735 2,709,1000%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4Number of adjectives per phrase MEDLINE MAYOall disorders proceduresFigure 2.
Distribution of the number of adjectivesper phraseQualitative resultsThe list of the most frequent adjectives found inthe original phrases corresponding to Disordersand Procedures in the UMLS is given in Table 4,with their rank in each corpus.
Interestingly, mosthigh-ranking adjectives are found in both corpora.Table 4 ?
Rank of the most frequent adjectives inMEDLINE (ME) and MAYO (Ma)Disorders ME Ma Procedures ME Machronic 2 2 total 1 2normal 3 1 surgical 2 3acute 4 3 partial 5 1congenital 1 8 serum 4 5increased 6 5 patient 13 4abnormal 8 4 percutaneous 3 15neonatal 17 >100 renal 12 7decreased 11 7 pulmonary 10 12pulmonary 10 9 ultrasound >100 22benign 7 13 general >100 23renal 9 11 cardiac 16 8recurrent 15 6 spinal 11 14multiple 12 10 radical 14 13increasing 14 12 evoked 29 >100malignant 5 27 coronary 8 24fetal 33 >100 femoral >100 33nasal >100 33 studied 33 >100joint 18 18 aortic >100 34intracranial 40 >100 fluid 7 27positive 24 17 abdominal 24 11Considering not the original phrases, but de-modified phrases corresponding to disorders andprocedures, most adjectives with a frequencygreater than 10 are found in the two corpora (86%for disorder and 80% for procedures).
However,their representation may differ largely across cor-pora.
Examining the contexts of adjectives for Dis-orders (4978 adjectives with a frequency greaterthan 10), we found that 40% of the adjectives ap-pear predominantly in MAYO (e.g., mild, possible,recent, probable, questionable, greenish), 20%predominantly in MEDLINE (e.g., experimental,human, neonatal, canine, intracellular), while 40%share most of their contexts across the two corpora(e.g., acute, chronic, recurrent).
The repartition ofthe demodified phrases for Disorders (8263phrases with a frequency greater than 10) is some-what different.
65% of the demodified phrases ap-pear predominantly in MAYO (e.g., discomfort,tenderness, low back pain, chest pain, diarrhea),15% predominantly in MEDLINE (e.g., resistance,strain, vesicle, hyperthermia), while 20% sharemost of their contexts across the two corpora (e.g.,disease, lesion, pain, symptom, abnormality).6 ApplicationsIn this section, we briefly examine some of theapplications that may benefit from a better knowl-edge of adjectival modification in biomedical dis-course: genre characterization, terminology andontology acquisition, and information retrieval.Genre characterizationKnowledge about adjectives and demodifiedphrases predominantly associated with one corpusmay be useful to characterize corpora, and in thisexperiment, genres.
Although limited, this studysuggests, for example, that a clinical corpus con-tains markers for uncertainty (e.g., possible, prob-able, questionable) and non-specific symptoms(e.g., discomfort, low back pain).
On the otherhand, in a broad bibliographic corpus, precisionsabout organism or age groups must be given (e.g.,human, canine, neonatal).
Interestingly, while theterm fever is found with no predominance in eithercorpus, its more scientific synonyms hyperthermiaand pyrexia are used predominantly in MEDLINE.
Ifcorroborated, this finding may suggest that, al-though both scientific publications and medicalrecords are geared toward peers, the language usedin scientific publications tends to be more special-ized.Terminology and ontology acquisitionThe method described in this paper constitutes auseful technique for adapting existing terminol-ogies and ontologies with empirically derivedterms from a new subdomain.
First, demodifiedphrases are more likely to be mapped to anothercorpus.
And second, because adjectival modifica-tion often denotes a hyponymic relation between aphrase without modifier and a modified phrase, themodified phrase can be linked as a candidate hy-ponym to the phrase without modifier(Bodenreider et al, 2002).This approach could be used, for example, foradapting biomedical terminologies to subtle clini-cal nuances.
When used with exactly the samesubdomain the existing terminology comes from,this technique could enable regular updates of theterminology provided that current textual data isused for phrase extraction.The approach is currently limited to simple ad-jectival modification; however, this is a self-imposed limitation.
Theoretically, the same meth-odology can be adapted to work on nominal,prepositional phrase and other types of modifica-tion.Information retrievalTerminologies as well as ontologies are frequentlyused for information or document retrieval in thedomains for which such terminologies or ontolo-gies are available.
Medicine is one such domainwhere there are numerous terminological re-sources.
Integrated in a system such as the UMLS,these resources provide, for example, many syno-nyms for each concept, increasing the chances ofretrieving documents from a given term.
However,most terms in these resources are pre-coordinatedand may not include all the variants needed invarious contexts.
Moreover, most terms are nounphrases and, while synonyms are often given fornouns, it may not be the case for their modifiers.For example, while the various synonyms for fever(e.g., hyperthermia and pyrexia) are present in theUMLS, there is no greenish variant for green spu-tum.
Nor can there systematically be a variant de-noting uncertainty.
Therefore, identifying classesof adjectives that can be either ignored (e.g., uncer-tainty markers) or mapped to other adjectives (e.g.,greenish to green) would increase the performanceof information retrieval systems operating on clini-cal corpora.
In light of these findings, existing ter-minologies and ontologies can provide a core ofmedical concepts common to most subdomains;whereas the methodology described here can beused to tailor the general-purpose terminologicalresources to accommodate subdomain-specificterminology services.7 ConclusionsIn conclusion, adjectival modification plays an im-portant role in biomedical texts, and knowledgeabout this phenomenon can be exploited in appli-cations such as the retrieval of biomedical docu-ments and for developing terminology services inthe biomedical domain.In the future, we would like to identify patternsin biomedical terms and phrases based, in part, onclasses of adjectival modifiers.
Creating such amodel for terms would constitute a generative ap-proach to biomedical terminology, contrasting withthe lists of precoordinated terms populating mostterminology systems in the biomedical domain.ReferencesBodenreider, O., Burgun, A., and Rindflesch, T. C.(2001).
Lexically-suggested hyponymic relationsamong medical terms and their representation in theUMLS.
Proceedings of TIA'2001 "Terminology andArtificial Intelligence", 11-21.Bodenreider, O., Rindflesch, T. C., and Burgun, A.(2002).
Unsupervised, corpus-based method for ex-tending a biomedical terminology.
Proceedings ofthe ACL'2002 Workshop "Natural Language Proc-essing in the Biomedical Domain", 53-60.Chute, C. G., and Elkin, P. L. (1997).
A clinically de-rived terminology: qualification to reduction.
ProcAMIA Annu Fall Symp, 570-574.Cutting, D. R., Kupiec, J., Pedersen, J. O., and Sibun, P.(1992).
A practical part-of-speech tagger.
Proceed-ings of the Third Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing, 133-140.Fellbaum, C. (1993).
Five Papers on WordNet: Adjec-tives in Wordnet, D. Gross, ed.McCray, A. T., Burgun, A., and Bodenreider, O.
(2001).Aggregating UMLS semantic types for reducingconceptual complexity.
Medinfo 10, 216-220.Raskin, V., and Niernburg, S. (1995).
Lexical Semanticsof Adjectives: A Microtheory of Adjectival Meaning.Memoranda In Cognitive and Computer ScienceMCCS-95-288.Raskin, V., and Niernburg, S. (1996).
Adjectival Modi-fication in Text Meaning Representation.
Proceed-ings of COLING '96, 842-847.Rindflesch, T. C., Rajan, J. V., and Hunter, L. (2000).Extracting molecular binding relationships frombiomedical text.
In "Proceedings of the 6th AppliedNatural Language Processing Conference" (SanFrancisco, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers), pp.
188-195.Srinivasan, S., Rindflesch, T. C., Hole, W. T., Aronson,A.
R., and Mork, J. G. (2002).
Finding UMLSMetathesaurus concepts in MEDLINE.
Proc AMIASymp, 727-731.
