Word order variation in German main clauses: A corpus analysisAndrea WeberComputational LinguisticsSaarland UniversityPO Box 15115066041 Saarbru?cken, Germanyaweber@coli.uni-sb.deKarin Mu?llerInformatics InstituteUniversity of AmsterdamKruislaan 4031098 SJ Amsterdam, The Netherlandskmueller@science.uva.nlAbstractIn this paper, we present empirical data from acorpus study on the linear order of subjects andobjects in German main clauses.
The aim wasto establish the validity of three well-known or-dering constraints: given complements tend tooccur before new complements, definite beforeindefinite, and pronoun before full noun phrasecomplements.
Frequencies of occurrences werederived for subject-first and object-first sen-tences from the German Negra corpus.
Whileall three constraints held on subject-first sen-tences, results for object-first sentences varied.Our findings suggest an influence of grammat-ical functions on the ordering of verb comple-ments.1 IntroductionWord order variation has been described ingreat detail by theoretical linguists.
There is,however, also an increasing interest in the topicfrom both computational linguists and psy-cholinguists (e.g.
Kaiser and Trueswell (submit-ted); Keller (2000); Kruiff and Duchier (2003);Pechmann et al (1996); Ro?der et al (2000)).Nevertheless, the empirical resources that re-searchers can draw from for their studies arestill very limited, since only a few studies re-port on the actual amount of word order vari-ation (see Kempen and Harbusch (2004); Kurz(2000)).
This paper therefore presents a cor-pus study on the linear order of subjects andobjects in German, and factors related to thepositioning of complements before or after theverb.
Our study is also new in that it looksat main clauses rather than the Mittelfeld, forwhich most ordering principles were originallyintended.German is a language with a relatively freeword order in which the subject usually pre-cedes the object, but can also follow it: In (1),the subject ?Turnverein Neuro?nnebeck?
pre-cedes the object ?Fairne?pokal?
; in (2) the sameobject precedes the subject, without changingthe original meaning of the sentence.
(1) SVODer Turnverein Neuro?nnebeck gewann denFairne?pokal.The club Neuro?nnebeck (NOM) won the fairness price(ACC).
(2) OVSDen Fairne?pokal gewann der TurnvereinNeuro?nnebeck.The fairness price (ACC) won the club Neuro?nnebeck(NOM).For a German newspaper corpus, we inves-tigate subject-verb-object (SVO) and object-verb-subject (OVS) sequences, and examine theextent to which certain ordering constraints in-fluence the positioning of verb complements.
Inparticular, we investigate the validity of thewell-known constraints to place given beforenew, definite before indefinite, and pronoun be-fore full noun phrase (NP) complements (cf.Mu?ller (1999); Uszkoreit (1987)) using the Ne-gra corpus (Brants et al, 1999).2 Ordering PrinciplesIn this section, we describe the three orderingprinciples tested in this study.
Whereas the firstprinciple attends to the contextual dependen-cies of a sentence, the scope of the second andthe third principle is a sentence.In scrambling languages, the position of verbcomplements can reflect their connection to thepreceding context.
In these languages, discoursenew information tends to occur towards the endof a sentence, whereas discourse old informa-tion is more likely to occur at the beginning(cf.
Birner and Ward (1998)).
Thus, the in-formation structure of a sentence in a scram-bling language such as German, can reflect its fitwithin a given discourse (Selkirk (1984); Steed-man (1991))1: When an object precedes a sub-ject, the object is likely to be given and the1Different terms and concepts such as theme/rheme,background/focus and given/new are used in the lit-subject new; when a subject precedes an ob-ject, the subject is likely to be given and theobject new, although the canonical subject-firstorder is also expected when both complementsare either new or given.
We establish for Ne-gra how often both SVO and OVS main clausesadhere to this basic order pattern.German is also a language with definite andindefinite articles.
According to a second linearordering principle, definite NPs should tend toprecede indefinite NPs.
We also presume, thatdefiniteness is correlated to the information sta-tus of complements.
As already Chafe (1976)pointed out, indefiniteness often goes togetherwith newness, and definiteness with givennessor newness.
Thus, on the NP itself informationstatus can be partially encoded by the choice ofarticle.
If the correlation with givenness drivesthe positioning of definite and indefinite com-plements, we should find for both SVO andOVS sentences that definite complements tendto precede indefinite ones.
Another possibilityis, however, that definiteness is bound to gram-matical functions (i.e.
subjects are usually def-inite).
In that case, we would expect to find areversal of the ordering principle for definitenessin OVS sentences.A third common linear ordering principlestates that pronouns tend to precede full NPs.Similarly to definiteness, the use of pronounscan potentially encode information structure.Almost by definition, pronouns refer to an an-tecedent in the discourse and represent there-fore given information (with the possible excep-tion of indefinite pronouns).
Whereas pronouncomplements usually represent given informa-tion, full NP complements are not necessarilynew.
Again, if the correlation with givennessdrives the positioning of pronominalized com-plements, we should find that pronouns tendto precede full NPs in both SVO and OVSsentences.
If, however, for example grammati-cal functions determine which complements arepronominalized, we might not find this ten-dency.3 Corpus AnalysisThe Negra corpus (Skut et al, 1998) is an an-notated collection of 20,602 sentences (355,096erature to express information structure (for a recentoverview see Kruiff-Korbayova?
and Steedman (2003)).Since annotations in the present study are based on sin-gle referents rather than parts of sentences, we distin-guish between given and new.tokens) extracted from the German newspaperFrankfurter Rundschau.
The syntactic struc-ture of sentences is represented in dependencytrees for which the nodes describe constituentsand the edges between the nodes are labeledwith grammatical functions expressing syntac-tic relations.
For our study, we choose the ?Pennformat?, a transformation of the original Negratreebank, in which crossing edges and traces areomitted.3.1 Data extractionUsing a Perl program and the tree-search pro-gram Tgrep2 (Rhode, 2002) all OVS sentencesin Negra are extracted by looking for object-verb-subject sequences with the same depth ofembedding.
Object and subject themselves aswell as the sentences in which the OVS structureoccur could be complex (see 3).
(3) OVS.Den Satz von der Vergangenheit, die noch nicht ein-mal vergangen sei, zitiert auch Peter Ru?hl in seinemwie stets gescheiten Begleittext zur ju?ngsten CD desTrompeters Frank Koglmann, einem der wichtigstenMusiker des europa?ischen Jazz.The sentence (ACC) about the past that has not evenpassed yet, cites also Peter Ru?hl (NOM) in his as al-ways smart accompanying text to the latest CD of thetrumpet player Frank Koglmann, one of the most im-portant musicians in European jazz.Clausal objects with verbal constructions inaddition to direct and indirect questions aremanually omitted from the list after extraction.A total of 625 OVS sentences are kept for anal-ysis (3% of all sentences in Negra).
Next, com-parable 625 (out of 2773) SVO sentences arechosen.2 Since the total number of SVO sen-tences in Negra exceeds that of OVS sentencesnotably, for practical reasons a subset of 625SVO sentences is selected.
Since the selectionis random, we assume that findings within thesubset are generally valid for SVO sentences.
Inaddition, for each selected OVS and SVO sen-tence, the two immediately preceding sentencesin Negra are extracted and serve as context todetermine the information status (given or new)of complements.2We do not allow SVO sentences in which the ob-ject is a reflexive pronoun (e.g.
?er fu?rchtet sich?, he isafraid), since reflexive pronouns are most unlikely to befronted.
In fact, none of our OVS sentences containeda fronted reflexive pronoun.
Furthermore, reflexive pro-nouns express coreference within a clause, whereas weare interested in references across sentence boundaries.3.2 Data CodingFor each extracted OVS and SVO sentence, theauthors annotate information status, definite-ness, and pronominalization of its verb comple-ments.
For complex subjects and objects, an-notations are based on the semantic head of thecomplement (i.e.
noun or pronoun if the se-mantic head coincides with the syntactic head).Definiteness of NPs is assigned by the deter-miner and information status of NPs by thenoun.
Whereas it seems obvious to base annota-tions on the head of complex complements, thedecision is less clear in the case of more than oneequivalent NP within a complement (i.e.
coor-dinated NPs).
Rather than annotating all NPs,for comparability reasons, we base annotationson the first NP only, whenever a complementconsists of a listing of more than one NP.
Fur-thermore, some SVO sentences contain both di-rect and indirect objects, though none of ourOVS sentences do.
For these SVO sentences,only the direct object are considered for theannotations.
An exception are SVO sentenceswith reflexive pronouns as indirect object, forwhich annotations are based on the direct ob-ject (1.6% of all SVO sentences).Givenness.
Two preceding context sen-tences are used to determine whether verb com-plements present new or given information.3 Wecode complements as given if they present ac-cessible information (Lambrecht, 1994).
Access-ability can either be textually or inferentiallyprovided.
Textual accessability requires an ex-plicit coreferential antecedent (i.e.
the occur-rence of the same lemma in the context).
Infer-entially accessible complements do not requirean explicit antecedent.
Such inferables (Prince,1981) are assumed to be activated via bridg-ing inferences (Clark, 1977) that logical rela-tions such as synonymy, hyponymy, and meron-omy can provide.
In such cases, shared gen-eral knowledge of the relations between objectsand their components or attributes is assumed.Whenever more specific knowledge is requiredto establish such a relation, however, comple-ments are considered to be new.
The distinc-tion between general and specific knowledge is3A recent study by Morton (2000) showed for singu-lar pronouns, that 98.7% of the times the antecedentswere available within two preceding sentences.
His find-ings are similar with those reported by Hobbs (1976).Since the context in our study regularly introduces com-plements, we believe that it gives an adequate pictureof the interaction between information status and wordorder.particularly hard to maintain, since the distinc-tion is often clearly not binary.
For instance,geographic familiarity with the catchment areaof the Frankfurter Rundschau is considered spe-cific knowledge: In (4), ?Waldstadion?
is one ofthe local soccer stadiums in Frankfurt.
Eventhough many local readers of the FrankfurterRundschau will know this it can not be assumedto be known by all readers of the newspaper,and is therefore coded as new information.
(4) Frankfurt - WaldstadionMoreover, when two entities X and Y of a po-tentially larger group Z are considered equallyspecific, Y is coded as new information afterX is mentioned in the context (see (5)): Here,?Klassik?
and ?Jazz?
are two examples of musicstyles.
(5) Klassik - Jazzclassical music - jazzA special case form constructions with ?es?.They are almost exclusively used impersonallyin sentences such as ?Karten gibt es?, ticketsare available.
We then annotate ?es?
as newinformation.Definiteness.
For all complements, we an-notate whether they are definite or indefinite.We largely follow the classification suggestedby Prince (1992).
Markers of definite comple-ments are definite articles, demonstrative arti-cles, possessive articles, personal pronouns, andunmodified proper names.
Markers of indefi-nite complements are indefinite articles, zero ar-ticles, quantifiers, and numerals.
Note, that allquantifiers are marked as indefinite even thoughcertain quantifiers like all and every have beensuggested in the literature to mark definite de-scriptions.
Furthermore, certain syntacticallyindefinite DPs have been argued to be semanti-cally definite and syntactically definite DPs tobe semantically indefinite.
In our study, how-ever, only formal syntactic properties are criti-cal for the assignation of definiteness.Pronominalization.
For the annotation ofpronominalization, we check whether comple-ments are realized as pronouns or full NPs.4 Results4.1 GivennessIn 74 cases, the antecedent of an anaphoriccomplement occurs prior to our context win-dow of two sentences.
Sentences containing suchcomplements are excluded from the analysis ofgivenness.
In addition, 106 sentences with ?es?-complements are excluded for the analyses wepresent in this paper.
Table 1 shows the ob-served orderings of given and new complementsfor our set of SVO and OVS sentences.
(SVO)second NPgiven O new OfirstNP given S 113 187new S 88 175(OVS)second NPgiven S new SfirstNP given O 96 144new O 134 170Table 1: Frequency of subject (S) and object (O)pairs ordered by givenness.In SVO sentences, given subjects precede newobjects more often (187 times) than new sub-jects precede given objects (88 times).
Thistendency is in compliance with the linear or-dering principle for information structure, eventhough the principle is not strictly obeyed asthe 88 cases of new-before-given complementsshow.
In OVS sentences, both orders occurabout equally often.
Given objects precede newsubjects 144 times, and new objects precedegiven subjects 134 times.
A chi-square testconfirms a significant interaction between sen-tence type (SVO, OVS) and ordering (given-before-new, new-before-given; ?2(1) = 14.44,p < .001).
Thus, in contrast with for ex-ample Finnish (Kaiser and Trueswell, submit-ted), information structure seems not to be en-coded in German OVS sentences, in the sensethat fronted given objects do not cue upcom-ing new subjects for language perceivers.
Ob-viously, factors other than givenness must haveinfluenced the fronting of objects as is also ap-parent by the frequent occurrence of OVS sen-tences with given-before-given (96 times) andnew-before-new (170 times) ordering of comple-ments.
If not, the canonical SVO order wouldbe expected.We want to point out a second way of look-ing at the results, one that involves a more lan-guage producer-oriented view.
Discourse con-text defines the information status of comple-ments.
Supposing now that a subject has beenintroduced in a context, but not an object, wecan check which sentence structure occurs moreoften.
We find more SVO (187 times) than OVSsentences (134 times).
On the other hand, whenthe object of a sentence is given, but the sub-ject new, we find more OVS (144) than SVO(88) sentences (?2(1) = 21.45, p < .001).
In-formation status of complements seems to haveinfluenced the choice of word order.
However,this interpretation must be taken with caution.First, we only look at a subset of all SVO sen-tences of Negra.
Second, at least to a cer-tain degree language producers can not onlychoose word order but also the grammaticalfunction (subject or object) of discourse refer-ents.
The assignment of grammatical functionsto constituents is assumed to happen duringthe functional stage of grammatical encoding insentence production; only at a later positionalstage the linear order is determined (e.g.
Bockand Levelt (1994)).4.2 DefinitenessOne hundred and six sentences containing ?es?-complements as well as four sentences in whichthe object or subject is a citation are excludedfrom the analysis.
Table 2 shows the ob-served orderings of definite and indefinite com-plements.
(SVO)second NPdef O indef OfirstNP def S 237 242indef S 50 62(OVS)second NPdef S indef SfirstNP def O 286 48indef O 190 25Table 2: Frequency of subject (S) and object (O)pairs ordered by definiteness.In SVO sentences, definite NPs precede indef-inite NPs 242 times but the reverse ordering oc-curs only 50 times.
Thus, the basic order of defi-nite before indefinite NPs is largely met for SVOsentences.
For OVS sentences, however, thepreference to place definite NPs before indefi-nite NPs is reversed.
Only 48 times precede def-inite NPs indefinite NPs, but 190 times precedeindefinite NPs definite NPs (?2(1) = 205.58,p < .001).
Thus, the ordering principle for def-initeness is violated in OVS sentences.
Rather,the results suggest a strong correlation betweengrammatical function and definiteness 4: Sub-jects are more often definite and objects indef-inite, regardless of sentence type.
Consideringall four ordering possibilities (see Table 2), how-ever, this tendency is much stronger for subjectsthan objects.Definiteness and givenness.
Not un-expectedly, definiteness is significantly corre-lated with givenness for all complements inboth sentence types (all p-values in Pearsonstests < .01).
At a closer look, indefinite NPsrepresent more often new information (72%),whereas definite NPs present given information(52%) as often as new information.
This re-sult matches corpus studies in other languages,which found that indefiniteness entails newnesswhereas definiteness can entail both givennessand newness (see e.g.
Fraurud (1990)).Definiteness, givenness, and word or-der.
We are also interested in whether the po-sitioning of a complement before or after theverb is influenced by its information status.
Isa definite complement, for example, more likelyto occur before the verb if it also is given?
Ta-ble 3 shows the number of occurrences of bothdefinite-indefinite and indefinite-definite orders,split by the information status of the comple-ments.
For both sentence types (SVO andOVS), neither the positioning of the definitecomplement nor the positioning of the indefinitecomplement is affected by information status(in chi-square tests all p-values > .3).
Thus, inSVO sentences, definite subjects precede indefi-nite objects more often than indefinite subjectsprecede definite objects, regardless of whethersubjects and objects present given or new in-formation.
Similarly, in OVS sentences, indefi-nite objects precede definite subjects more oftenthan the reverse, regardless of the informationstatus of the complements.4.3 PronominalizationAs with definiteness, we exclude 106 sentencescontaining ?es?-complements.
Table 4 showsthe observed orderings of pronoun and full NPcomplements.
In SVO sentences, 95 times apronoun precedes a full NP, whereas a full NPprecedes a pronoun only 33 times.
Thus, aswith givenness and definiteness before, the ba-sic order of pronoun complements before full4Since we only look at sentences in active and not inpassive voice, subjects in our sentences are always agentsand objects patients.
We can therefore not exclude thepossibility that thematic roles rather than grammaticalfunctions drive determiner choice.
(SVO)def given def new indef given indef newdef<indef 147 95 71 171indef<def 26 24 16 34(OVS)def given def new indef given indef newdef<indef 26 22 15 33indef<def 85 105 57 133Table 3: Linear order frequency of definite-indefinite pairs for given and new complements.NP complements is largely met for SVO sen-tences.
In OVS sentences pronouns precede fullNPs 76 times, but the reverse order also occurs91 times (?2(1) = 23.35, p < .001).
Interest-ingly, our results differ from what Kempen andHarbusch (2004) found for subordinate clausesin Negra.
In adverbial and complement OVSclauses, they found that full NP objects neverprecede pronominalized subjects and translatedthis findings into a rigid rule schema.
Theyargued that only strong conceptual influencessuch as topic/focus relations could override theordering pattern.
Such influences would then bemore likely to play a role in main clauses, as wetest them, than in subordinate clauses, since wedo observe full NP objects preceding pronom-inalized subjects.
However, this conclusion isbased on a relatively small set of sentences andneeds to be verified in a corpus larger than Ne-gra.
(SVO)second NPpro O full OfirstNP pro S 12 95full S 33 450(OVS)second NPpro S full SfirstNP pro O 20 76full O 91 366Table 4: Frequency of subject (S) and object (O)pairs ordered by pronominalization.Pronominalization and givenness.
Asexpected, pronominalization is highly corre-lated with givenness for all complements inboth sentence types (all p-values in Pearsonstests < .001).
Almost by definition, pronounsare given, except for a few cases in which thereferent of a pronoun follows rather than pre-cedes it within the same sentence.
On the otherhand, clearly not all given complements are pro-nouns.
In fact, only 33% of all given subjectsand 26% of all given objects are pronouns.Pronominalization, givenness, andword order.
Table 5 shows the number ofoccurrences of both pronoun-full NP and fullNP-pronoun orders, split by the informationstatus of the complements.
For both SVO andOVS sentences, the positioning of the pronounis affected by its information status (for SVO:?2(1) = 16.92, p < .001; for OVS: ?2(1) = 4.76,p < .03).
Thus, the givenness of the pronounsignificantly increases the likelihood for thiscomplement to precede the other complement.No such effect is found for full NPs.
(SVO)pro given pro new full given full newpro<full 92 3 28 67full<pro 23 10 14 19(OVS)pro given pro new full given full newpro<full 69 7 30 46full<pro 70 21 37 54Table 5: Linear order frequency of pronoun-full NPpairs for given and new complements.5 Discussion and ConclusionWe present in this paper a corpus-based studyon the linearization of subjects and objects inGerman main clauses.
We examined the ex-tent to which the parameters of givenness, def-initeness, and pronominalization influence theordering of verb complements in German SVOand OVS sentences.In general, our corpus data only supportthe validity of the ordering principles for SVOsentences: given subjects indeed tend to pre-cede new objects, definite subjects indefiniteobjects, and pronominalized subjects full NPobjects.
However, clearly none of the order-ing constraints is absolute since the reversed or-ders were also observed, just not as often.
ForOVS sentences, our results differed.
None of thethree basic order patterns for givenness, defnite-ness, and pronominalization was confirmed: Forgivenness and pronominalization both orders(given-new and new-given; pronoun-full NP andfull NP-pronoun) occurred about equally often.For definiteness the basic order preference wasreversed (more indefinite-definite than definite-indefinite orders).
The fact that in OVS sen-tences indefinite objects preceded definite sub-jects more often than the converse, suggeststhat grammatical functions rather than the lin-ear structure of sentences influence the choiceof word order (i.e.
subjects are more likelyto be definite, regardless of word order).
Fur-thermore, even though both definiteness andpronominalization were correlated with given-ness, only the positioning of pronouns before orafter the verb was additionally influenced by itsinformation status.
Definiteness did not inter-act with information structure as we would haveexpected.In sum, our data indicate that linearizationprinciples are soft constraints, and that a com-bination of principles rather than one primaryconstraint impact the choice of word order.
Thefact, that for canonical SVO sentences cases ofreversed basic order patterns (e.g.
new sub-ject preceded given object) were observed forall three tested linearization principles, suggeststhat ordering constraints other than the onesunder investigation here influence the lineariza-tion of complements.
Indeed, in the literaturea range of such parameters has been suggested,including animacy and length of complements(Dietrich and Nice (in press); Hawkins (1994)).A recent Negra corpus study by Kempen andHarbusch (2004), confirmed the direct influenceof animacy on linearization in German subordi-nate clauses.
On the other hand, a Negra cor-pus study by Kurz (2000) found no influence oflength on the ordering of subject and object.6 AcknowledgementsWe thank Stefan Baumann, Matthew Crocker,and Amit Dubey for helpful comments on anearlier version of this paper.
This researchwas supported by SFB 378 ?ALPHA?, awardedby the German Research Council and by thePioneer Project ?Computing with Meaning?,funded by the Netherlands Organization for Sci-entific Research.ReferencesBetty Birner and Geoffrey Ward.
1998.
Infor-mation status and noncanonical word orderin English.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Kay Bock and Wilhelm Levelt.
1994.
Lan-guage production: Grammatical encoding.
InM.
Gernsbacher, editor, Handbook of Psy-cholinguistics.
Academic Press, San Diego.Thorsten Brants, Wojciech Skut, and HansUszkoreit.
1999.
Syntactic annotation of aGerman newspaper corpus.
In Proceedings ofthe ATALA Treebank Workshop, pages 69?76,Paris, France.Wallace Chafe.
1976.
Givenness, contrastive-ness, definiteness, subjects, topics, and pointof view.
In C. Li, editor, Subject and Topic,pages 25?55.
Academic Press, New York, NY.Herbert Clark.
1977.
Bridging.
In P.N.Johnson-Laird and P.C.
Wason, editors,Thinking: Readings in Cognitive Science,pages 411?420.
Cambridge University Press,London, New York.Rainer Dietrich and Kathy Nice.
in press.Belebtheit, Agentivita?t und inkrementelleSatzproduktion.
In C. Habel and T. Pech-mann, editors, Sprachproduktion.
West-deutscher Verlag, Wiesbaden.Kari Fraurud.
1990.
Definiteness and the pro-cessing of NPs in natural discourse.
Journalof Semantics, 7:395?433.John Hawkins.
1994.
A Performance Theory ofOrder and Constituency.
CUP, Cambridge.Jerry R. Hobbs.
1976.
Pronoun Resolution.Research report 76-1, Department of Com-puter Sciences, City College, City Universityof New York, August.Elsie Kaiser and John Trueswell.
submitted.Role of discourse context in the processing ofa flexible word-order language.Frank Keller.
2000.
Gradience in grammar: Ex-perimental and computational aspects of de-grees of grammaticality.
Ph.D. thesis, Univer-sity of Edinburgh.Gerard Kempen and Karin Harbusch.
2004.How flexible is constituent order in the mid-field of German subordinate clauses?
Acorpus study revealing unexpected rigidity.In Proceedings of the International Confer-ence on Linguistic Evidence, pages 81?85,Tu?bingen, Germany.Geert-Jan Kruiff and Denys Duchier.
2003.
In-formation structure in Topological Depen-dency Grammar.
In Proceedings EACL 2003,Budapest, Hungary.Ivana Kruiff-Korbayova?
and Mark Steedman.2003.
Discourse and information structure.Journal of Logic, Language and Information,12:249?259.Daniela Kurz.
2000.
A statistical account onword order variation in German.
In Linguis-tically Annotated Corpora LINC-2000, Work-shop at COLING, Luxembourg.Knud Lambrecht.
1994.
Information structureand sentence form.
CUP, Cambridge.Thomas S. Morton.
2000.
Coreference for NLPApplications.
In Proceedings of ACL 2000.Gereon Mu?ller.
1999.
Optimality, marked-ness, and word order in German.
Linguistics,37:777?818.Thomas Pechmann, Hans Uszkoreit, JohannesEngelkamp, and Dieter Zerbst.
1996.
Wort-stellung im deutschen Mittelfeld.
Linguistis-che Theorie und psycholinguistische Evidenz.In C. Habel, S. Kanngiesser, and G. Rickheit,editors, Perspektiven der Kognitiven Linguis-tik.
Modelle und Methoden, pages 257?299.Westdeutscher Verlag, Opladen.Ellen Prince.
1981.
Toward a taxonomy ofgiven-new information.
In P. Cole, editor,Radical Pragmatics, pages 223?255.
Aca-demic Press, New York, NY.Ellen Prince.
1992.
The ZPG letter: sub-jects, definiteness, and information status.
InS.
Thompson and W. Mann, editors, Dis-course description: Diverse analyses of afund-raising text, pages 295?325.
John Ben-jamins.Douglas Rhode, 2002.
Tgrep2 User Manual.Version 1.06.Brigitte Ro?der, Tobias Schicke, Oliver Stock,Gwen Heberer, Helen Neville, and FrankRo?sler.
2000.
Word order effects in Ger-man sentences and German pseudo-word sen-tences.
Sprache und Kognition, 19(1/2):31?37.Elisabeth Selkirk.
1984.
Phonology and Syntax.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Wojciech Skut, Thorsten Brants, BrigitteKrenn, and Hans Uszkoreit.
1998.
A linguis-tically interpreted corpus of German newspa-per text.
In Proceedings of the ESSLLI Work-shop on Recent Advances in Corpus Annota-tion, pages 18?24, Saarbru?cken, Germany.Mark Steedman.
1991.
Structure and intona-tion.
Language, 67:262?296.Hans Uszkoreit.
1987.
Word Order and Con-stituent Structure in German.
Lecture Notes.CSLI, Stanford University.
