Multilingual Aligned Parallel Treebank Corpus ReflectingContextual Information and Its ApplicationsKiyotaka Uchimoto?
Yujie Zhang?
Kiyoshi Sudo?Masaki Murata?
Satoshi Sekine?
Hitoshi Isahara?
?National Institute of Information and Communications Technology3-5 Hikari-dai, Seika-cho, Soraku-gun,Kyoto 619-0289, Japan{uchimoto,yujie,murata,isahara}@nict.go.jp?New York University715 Broadway, 7th floorNew York, NY 10003, USA{sudo,sekine}@cs.nyu.eduAbstractThis paper describes Japanese-English-Chinesealigned parallel treebank corpora of newspaperarticles.
They have been constructed by trans-lating each sentence in the Penn Treebank andthe Kyoto University text corpus into a cor-responding natural sentence in a target lan-guage.
Each sentence is translated so as toreflect its contextual information and is anno-tated with morphological and syntactic struc-tures and phrasal alignment.
This paper alsodescribes the possible applications of the par-allel corpus and proposes a new framework toaid in translation.
In this framework, paral-lel translations whose source language sentenceis similar to a given sentence can be semi-automatically generated.
In this paper we showthat the framework can be achieved by usingour aligned parallel treebank corpus.1 IntroductionRecently, accurate machine translation systemscan be constructed by using parallel corpora(Och and Ney, 2000; Germann et al, 2001).However, almost all existing machine transla-tion systems do not consider the problem oftranslating a given sentence into a natural sen-tence reflecting its contextual information in thetarget language.
One of the main reasons forthis is that we had many problems that had tobe solved by one-sentence to one-sentence ma-chine translation before we could solve the con-textual problem.
Another reason is that it wasdifficult to simply investigate the influence ofthe context on the translation because sentencecorrespondences of the existing bilingual doc-uments are rarely one-to-one, and are usuallyone-to-many or many-to-many.On the other hand, high-quality treebankssuch as the Penn Treebank (Marcus et al, 1993)and the Kyoto University text corpus (Kuro-hashi and Nagao, 1997) have contributed toimproving the accuracies of fundamental tech-niques for natural language processing such asmorphological analysis and syntactic structureanalysis.
However, almost all of these high-quality treebanks are based on monolingual cor-pora and do not have bilingual or multilin-gual information.
There are few high-qualitybilingual or multilingual treebank corpora be-cause parallel corpora have mainly been activelyused for machine translation between relatedlanguages such as English and French, there-fore their syntactic structures are not requiredso much for aligning words or phrases.
How-ever, syntactic structures are necessary for ma-chine translation between languages whose syn-tactic structures are different from each other,such as in Japanese-English, Japanese-Chinese,and Chinese-English machine translations, be-cause it is more difficult to automatically alignwords or phrases between two unrelated lan-guages than between two related languages.
Ac-tually, it has been reported that syntactic struc-tures contribute to improving the accuracy ofword alignment between Japanese and English(Yamada and Knight, 2001).
Therefore, if wehad a high-quality parallel treebank corpus, theaccuracies of machine translation between lan-guages whose syntactic structures are differ-ent from each other would improve.
Further-more, if the parallel treebank corpus had wordor phrase alignment, the accuracy of automaticword or phrase alignment would increase byusing the parallel treebank corpus as trainingdata.
However, so far, there is no aligned par-allel treebank corpus whose domain is not re-stricted.
For example, the Japanese ElectronicsIndustry Development Association?s (JEIDA?s)bilingual corpus (Isahara and Haruno, 2000)has sentence, phrase, and proper noun align-ment.
However, it does not have morphologi-cal and syntactic information, the alignment ispartial, and the target is restricted to a whitepaper.
The Advance Telecommunications Re-search dialogue database (ATR, 1992) is a par-allel treebank corpus between Japanese and En-glish.
However, it does not have word or phrasealignment, and the target domain is restrictedto travel conversation.Therefore, we have been constructing alignedparallel treebank corpora of newspaper articlesbetween languages whose syntactic structuresare different from each other since 2001; theymeet the following conditions.1.
It is easy to investigate the influence of the con-text on the translation, which means the sen-tences that come before and after a particularsentence, and that help us to understand themeaning of a particular word such as a pro-noun.2.
The annotated information in the existingmonolingual high-quality treebanks can be uti-lized.3.
They are open to the public.To construct parallel corpora that satisfy theseconditions, each sentence in the Penn Tree-bank (Release 2) and the Kyoto University textcorpus (Version 3.0) has been translated intoa corresponding natural sentence reflecting itscontextual information in a target language byskilled translators, revised by native speakers,and each parallel translation has been anno-tated with morphological and syntactic struc-tures, and phrasal alignment.
Henceforth, wecall the parallel corpus that is constructed bypursuing the above policy an aligned paralleltreebank corpus reflecting contextual informa-tion.
In this paper, we describe an aligned par-allel treebank corpus of newspaper articles be-tween Japanese, English, and Chinese, and itsapplications.2 Construction of Aligned ParallelTreebank Corpus ReflectingContextual Information2.1 Human Translation of ExistingMonolingual TreebankThe Penn Treebank is a tagged corpus of WallStreet Journal material, and it is divided into 24sections.
The Kyoto University text corpus is atagged corpus of the Mainichi newspaper, whichis divided into 16 sections according to the cat-egories of articles such as the sports section andthe economy section.
To maintain the consis-tency of expressions in translation, a few partic-ular translators were assigned to translate arti-cles in a particular section, and the same trans-lator was assigned to the same section.
Theinstructions to translators for Japanese-Englishtranslation is basically as follows.1.
One-sentence to one-sentence translation as aruleTranslate a source sentence into a target sen-tence.
In case the translated sentence becomesunnatural by pursuing this policy, leave a com-ment.2.
Natural translation reflecting contextual infor-mationExcept in the case that the translated sentencebecomes unnatural by pursuing policy 1, trans-late a source sentence into a target sentencenaturally.By deletion, replacement, or supplementation,let the translated sentence be natural in thecontext.In an entire article, the translated sentencesmust maintain the same meaning and informa-tion as those of the original sentences.3.
Translations of proper nounsFind out the translations of proper nouns bylooking up the nouns in a dictionary or by usinga web search.
In case a translation cannot befound, use a temporary name and report it.We started the construction of Japanese-Chinese parallel corpus in 2002.
The Japanesesentences of the Kyoto University text corpuswere also translated into Chinese by humantranslators.
Then each translated Chinese sen-tence was revised by a second Chinese native.The instruction to the translators is the sameas that given in the Japanese-English humantranslations.The breakdown of the parallel corpora isshown in Table 1.
We are planning to trans-late the remaining 18,714 sentences of the KyotoUniversity text corpus and the remaining 30,890sentences of the Penn Treebank.
As for the nat-uralness of the translated sentences, there are207 (1%) unnatural English sentences of theKyoto University text corpus, and 462 (2.5%)unnatural Japanese sentences of the Penn Tree-bank generated by pursuing policy 1.2.2 Morphological and SyntacticAnnotationIn the following sections, we describe the anno-tated information of the parallel treebank cor-pus based on the Kyoto University text corpus.2.2.1 Morphological and SyntacticInformation of Japanese-EnglishcorpusTranslated English sentences were analyzed byusing the Charniak Parser (Charniak, 1999).Then, the parsed sentences were manually re-vised.
The definitions of part-of-speech (POS)categories and syntactic labels follow those ofthe Treebank I style (Marcus et al, 1993).We have finished revising the 10,328 parsedsentences that appeared from January 1st to11th.
An example of morphological and syn-tactic structures is shown in Figure 1.
In thisfigure, ?S-ID?
means the sentence ID in theKyoto University text corpus.
EOJ means theboundary between a Japanese parsed sentenceand an English parsed sentence.
The definitionof Japanese morphological and syntactic infor-mation follows that of the Kyoto University textcorpus (Version 3.0).
The syntactic structure isrepresented by dependencies between Japanesephrasal units called bunsetsus.
The phrasalTable 1: Breakdown of the parallel corporaOriginal corpus Languages # of parallel sentencesKyoto University text corpus Japanese-English 19,669 (from Jan. 1st to 17th in 1995)Japanese-Chinese 38,383 (all)Penn Treebank Japanese-English 18,318 (from section 0 to 9)Total Japanese-English 37,987 (Approximately 900,000 English words)Japanese-Chinese 38,383 (Approximately 900,000 Chinese words)# S-ID:950104141-008* 0 2D????
????
* ??
* * ** 1 2D??
??????
* ??
??
* *?
??
* ???
????????
* *??
???
* ???
????????
* *?
?
* ??
????
* ** 2 6D??
????
* ??
????
* *?
?
?
???
* ???
?????????
?
* ??
??
* ** 3 4D??
????
* ??
????
* *?
?
* ??
???
* ** 4 5D???
????
???
??
* ????
???
* 5 6D??
????
* ??
????
* *?
?
* ??
???
* ** 6 -1D???
????
??
??
* ??????
???????
?
??
???
??????
????
?????
??
??
???
?????????
????????
????
?
* ??
??
* *EOJ(S1 (S (NP (PRP They))(VP (VP (VBD were)(NP (DT all))(ADJP (NP (QP (RB about)(CD nineteen))(NNS years))(JJ old)))(CC and)(VP (VBD had)(S (NP (DT no)(NN strength))(VP (VBN left)(SBAR (S (VP (ADVP (RB even))(TO to)(VP (VB answer)(NP (NNS questions))))))))))(.
.
)))EOEFigure 1: Example of morphological and syn-tactic information.units or bunsetsus are minimal linguistic unitsobtained by segmenting a sentence naturally interms of semantics and phonetics, and each ofthem consists of one or more morphemes.2.2.2 Chinese MorphologicalInformation of Japanese-ChinesecorpusChinese sentences are composed of strings ofHanzi and there are no spaces between words.The morphological annotation, therefore, in-cludes providing tags of word boundaries andPOSs of words.
We analyzed the Chinese sen-tences by using the morphological analyzer de-veloped by Peking University (Zhou and Duan,1994).
There are 39 categories in this POS set.Then the automatically tagged sentences wererevised by the third native Chinese.
In thispass the Chinese translations were revised againwhile the results of word segmentation and POStagging were revised.
Therefore the Chinesetranslations are obtained with a high quality.We have finished revising the 12,000 tagged sen-tences.
The revision of the remaining sentencesis ongoing.
An example of tagged Chinese sen-tences is shown in Figure 2.
The letters shownFigure 2: Example of morphological informa-tion of Chinese corpus.after ?/?
indicate POSs.
The Chinese sentence isthe translation of the Japanese sentence in Fig-ure 1.
The Chinese sentences are GB encoded.The 38,383 translated Chinese sentences have1,410,892 Hanzi and 926,838 words.2.3 Phrasal AlignmentThis section describes the annotated informa-tion of 19,669 sentences of the Kyoto Universitytext corpus.The minimum alignment unit should be assmall as possible, because bigger units can beconstructed from units of the minimum size.However, we decided to define a bunsetsu as theminimum alignment unit.
One of the main rea-sons for this is that the smaller the unit is, thehigher the human annotation cost is.
Anotherreason is that if we define a word or a morphemeas a minimum alignment unit, expressions suchas post-positional particles in Japanese and arti-cles in English often do not have alignments.
Toeffectively absorb those expressions and to alignas many parts as possible, we found that a big-ger unit than a word or a morpheme is suitableas the minimum alignment unit.
We call theminimum alignment based on bunsetsu align-ment units the bunsetsu unit translation pair.Bigger pairs than the bunsetsu unit translationpairs can be automatically extracted based onthe bunsetsu unit translation pairs.
We call allof the pairs, including bunsetsu unit transla-tion pairs, translation pairs.
The bunsetsu unittranslation pairs for idiomatic expressions oftenbecome unnatural.
In this case, two or morebunsetsu units are combined and handled as aminimum alignment unit.
The breakdown ofthe bunsetsu unit translation pairs is shown inTable 2.Table 2: Breakdown of the bunsetsu unit trans-lation pairs.
(1) total # of translation pairs 172,255(2) # of different translation pairs 146,397(3) # of Japanese expressions 110,284(4) # of English expressions 111,111(5) average # of English expressions 1.33corresponding to a Japanese expression ((2)/(3))(6) average # of Japanese expressions 1.32corresponding to a English expression ((2)/(4))(7) # of ambiguous Japanese expressions 15,699(8) # of ambiguous English expressions 12,442(9) # of bunsetsu unit translation pairs 17,719consisting of two or more bunsetsusAn example of phrasal alignment is shown inFigure 3.
A Japanese sentence is shown fromthe line after the S-ID to the EOJ.
Each lineindicates a bunsetsu.
Each rectangular line in-dicates a dependency between bunsetsus.
Theleftmost number in each line indicates the bun-setsu ID.
The corresponding English sentence isshown in the next line after that of the EOJ(End of Japanese) until the EOE (End of En-glish).
The English expressions correspondingto each bunsetsu are tagged with the corre-sponding bunsetsu ID such as <P id=?bunsetsuID?></P>.
When there are two or more fig-ures in the tag id such as id=?1,2?, it means twoor more bunsetsus are combined and handled asa minimum alignment unit.For example, we can extract the followingtranslation pairs from Figure 3. (J) ???
(yunyuu-ga) / ?????
(kaikin-sa-reta);(E)that had been under the ban (J) ???????
(beikoku-san-ringo-no); (E)of applesimported from the U.S. (J) ????
(dai-ichi-bin-ga); (E)The first cargo (J)???????
(uridasa-reta); (E)was brought to themarket. (J) ???????
(beikoku-san-ringo-no) / ????
(dai-ichi-bin-ga); (E)The first cargo / of apples im-ported from the U.S.# S-ID:950110003-0011 ???????????????
?2 ???????????????
?3 ???????????????
?4 ???????????????
?5 ???????????????
?6 ???????????????
?7 ???????????????
?8 ???????????????
?9 ???????????????
?10 ??????????????
?11 ???????????????
?EOJ<P id="4">The first cargo</P> <P id="3">of applesimported from the U.S.</P> <P id="1,2">that had beenunder the ban</P> <P id="7">completed</P> <P id="6">quarantine</P> <P id="7">and</P> <P id="11">was broughtto the market</P> <P id="10">for the first time</P><P id="5">on the 9th</P> <P id="9">at major supermarketchain stores</P> <P id="8">in the Tokyo metropolitanarea</P> <P id="11">.</P>EOEFigure 3: Example of phrasal alignment. (J) ???????
(beikoku-san-ringo-no) / ????
(dai-ichi-bin-ga) /???????
(uridasa-reta); (E)Thefirst cargo / of apples imported from the U.S. / wasbrought to the market.Here, Japanese and English expressions aredivided by the symbol ?
;?, and ?/?
means abunsetsu boundary.An overview of the criteria of the alignmentis as follows.
Align as many parts as possible,except if a certain part is redundant.
More de-tailed criteria will be attached with our corpuswhen it is open to the public.1.
Alignment of English grammatical elementsthat are not expressed in JapaneseEnglish articles, possessive pronouns, infinitiveto, and auxiliary verbs are joined with nounsand verbs.2.
Alignment between a noun and its substituteexpressionA noun can be aligned with its substitute ex-pression such as a pronoun.3.
Alignment of Japanese ellipsesAn English expression is joined with its relatedelements.
For example, the English subject isjoined with its related verb.4.
Alignment of supplementary or explanatory ex-pression in EnglishSupplementary or explanatory expressions inEnglish are joined with their related words.?
Ex.
?# S-ID:950104142-0031 ??????????
?2 ??????????
?3 ??????????
?4 ??????????
?5 ??????????
?6 ??????????
?EOJ<P id="1">The Chinese character used for "ka"</P>has such meanings as "beautiful" and "splendid."EOE?"??
(ka)???
(niwa)" corresponds to"The Chinese character used for "ka""5.
Alignment of date and timeWhen a Japanese noun representing date andtime is adverbial, the English preposition isjoined with the date and time.6.
Alignment of coordinate structuresWhen English expressions represented by ?X(A + B)?
correspond to Japanese expressionsrepresented by ?XA + XB?, the alignment ofX overlaps.?
Ex.
?# S-ID:950106149-0051 ????????????
?2 ????????????
?3 ????????????
?4 ????????????
?5 ????????????
?6 ????????????
?7 ????????????
?8 ????????????
?EOJIn the Kinki Region, disposal of wastes started<P id="2"><P id="4"> at offshore sites of</P>Amagasaki</P> and <P id="4">Izumiotsu</P> from1989 and 1991 respectively.EOE?"???
(Amagasaki-oki) ?
(de)" corresponds to"at offshore sites of Amagasaki"?"????
(Izumiotsu-oki) ?
(de)" corresponds to"at offshore sites of ?
Izumiotsu"3 Applications of Aligned ParallelTreebank Corpus3.1 Use for Evaluation of ConventionalMethodsThe corpus as described in Section 2 can beused for the evaluation of English-Japanese andJapanese-English machine translation.
We candirectly compare various methods of machinetranslation by using this corpus.
It can be sum-marized as follows in terms of the characteristicsof the corpus.One-sentence to one-sentence translationcan be simply used for the evaluation ofvarious methods of machine translation.Morphological and syntactic informationcan be used for the evaluation of methodsthat actively use morphological and syntacticinformation, such as methods for example-based machine translation (Nagao, 1981;Watanabe et al, 2003), or transfer-basedmachine translation (Imamura, 2002).Phrasal alignment is used for the evaluation ofautomatically acquired translation knowledge(Yamamoto and Matsumoto, 2003).An actual comparison and evaluation is ourfuture work.3.2 Analysis of TranslationOne-sentence to one-sentence translationreflects contextual information.
Therefore, itis suitable to investigate the influence of thecontext on the translation.
For example, wecan investigate the difference in the use ofdemonstratives and pronouns between Englishand Japanese.
We can also investigate thedifference in the use of anaphora.Morphological and syntactic informationand phrasal alignment can be used to investi-gate the appropriate unit and size of transla-tion rules and the relationship between syntac-tic structures and phrasal alignment.3.3 Use in Conventional SystemsOne-sentence to one-sentence translationcan be used for training a statistical translationmodel such as GIZA++ (Och and Ney, 2000),which could be a strong baseline system formachine translation.Morphological and syntactic informationand phrasal alignment can be used to acquiretranslation knowledge for example-based ma-chine translation and transfer-based machinetranslation.In order to show what kind of units are help-ful for example-based machine translation, weinvestigated whether the Japanese sentences ofnewspaper articles appearing on January 17,1995, which we call test-set sentences, could betranslated into English sentences by using trans-lation pairs appearing from January 1st to 16thas a database.
First, we found that only one outof 1,234 test-set sentences agreed with one outof 18,435 sentences in the database.
Therefore,a simple sentence search will not work well.
Onthe other hand, 6,659 bunsetsus out of 12,632bunsetsus in the test-set sentences agreed withthose in the database.
If words in bunsetsus areexpanded into their synonyms, the combinationof the expanded bunsetsus sets in the databasemay cover the test-set sentences.
Next, there-fore, we investigated whether the Japanese test-set sentences could be translated into Englishsentences by simply combining translation pairsappearing in the database.
Given a Japanesesentence, words were extracted from it andtranslation pairs that include those words ortheir synonyms, which were manually evalu-ated, were extracted from the database.
Then,the English sentence was manually generated byjust combining English expressions in the ex-tracted translation pairs.
One hundred two rel-atively short sentences (the average number ofbunsetsus is about 9.8) were selected as inputs.The number of equivalent translations, whichmean that the translated sentence is grammat-ical and has the same meaning as the sourcesentence, was 9.
The number of similar transla-tions, which mean that the translated sentenceis ungrammatical, or different or wrong mean-ings of words, tenses, and prepositions are usedin the translated sentence, was 83.
The num-ber of other translations, which mean that somewords are missing, or the meaning of the trans-lated sentence is completely different from thatof the original sentence, was 10.
For example,the original parallel translation is as follows:Japanese:???????????????????????????????????????????????
?English: New Party Sakigake proposed that towards the or-dinary session, both parties found a council to dis-cuss policy and Diet management.Given the Japanese sentence, the translatedsentence was:Translation:Sakigake Party suggested to set up an organiza-tion between the two parties towards the regularsession of the Diet to discuss under the theme ofpolicies and the management of the Diet.This result shows that only 9% of input sen-tences can be translated into sentences equiv-alent to the original ones.
However, we foundthat approximately 90% of input sentences canbe translated into English sentences that areequivalent or similar to the original ones.3.4 Similar Parallel TranslationGenerationThe original aim of constructing an aligned par-allel treebank corpus as described in Section 2 isto achieve a new framework for translation aidas described below.It would be very convenient if multilingualsentences could be generated by just writingsentences in our mother language.
Today, itcan be formally achieved by using commercialmachine translation systems.
However, the au-tomatically translated sentences are often in-comprehensible.
Therefore, we have to revisethe original and translated sentences by find-ing and referring to parallel translation whosesource language sentence is similar to the orig-inal one.
In many cases, however, we cannotfind such similar parallel translations to the in-put sentence.
Therefore, it is difficult for userswho do not have enough knowledge of the targetlanguages to generate comprehensible sentencesin several languages by just searching similarparallel translations in this way.
Therefore, wepropose to generate similar parallel translationswhose source language sentence is similar tothe input sentence.
We call this framework fortranslation aid similar parallel translation gen-eration.We investigated whether the framework canbe achieved by using our aligned parallel tree-bank corpus.
As the first step of this study,we investigated whether an appropriate paralleltranslation can be generated by simply combin-ing translation pairs extracted from our alignedparallel treebank corpus in the following steps.1.
Extract each content word with its adjacentfunction word in each bunsetsu in a given sen-tence2.
The extracted content words and their adjacentfunction words are expanded into their syn-onyms and class words whose major and minorPOS categories are the same3.
Find translation pairs including the expandedcontent words with their expanded adjacentfunction words in the given sentence4.
For each bunsetsu, select a translation pair thathas similar dependency relationship to those inthe given sentence5.
Generate a parallel translation by combiningthe selected translation pairsThe input sentences were randomly selectedfrom 102 sentences described in Section 3.3.The above steps, except the third step, werebasically conducted manually.
The Examplesof the input sentences and generated paralleltranslations are shown in Figure 4.The basic unit of translation pairs in ouraligned parallel treebank corpus is a bunsetsu,and the basic unit in the selection of transla-tion pairs is also a bunsetsu.
One of the ad-vantages of using a bunsetsu as a basic unit isthat a Japanese expression represented as oneof various expressions in English, or omitted inEnglish, such as Japanese post-positional par-ticles, is paired with a content word.
There-fore, the translation of such an expression is ap-propriately selected together with the transla-tion of a content word when a certain trans-lation pair is selected.
If the translation ofsuch an expression was selected independentlyof the translation of a content word, the com-bination of each translation would be ungram-matical or unnatural.
Another advantage of thebasic unit, bunsetsu, is that we can easily referto dependency information between bunsetsuswhen we select an appropriate translation pairbecause the original treebank has the depen-dency information between bunsetsus.
Theseadvantages are utilized in the above generationsteps.
For example, in the first step, a contentword ???
(kokkai, Diet session)?
in the sec-ond example in Figure 4 was extracted from thebunsetsu ?????
(tsuujo-kokkai, the ordinaryDiet session) ?
(ni, case marker)?, and it wasexpanded into its class word ??
(kai, meeting)?in the second step.
Then, a translation pair?(J)???????????
(kokuren-kodomo-no-kenri-iinkai)?
(ni, case marker); (E)the UNCommittee on the Rights of the Child /(J)??
(taishi); (E)towards?
was extracted as atranslation pair in the third step.
Since thedependency between ????????????
(kokuren-kodomo-no-kenri-iinkai, the UN Com-mittee on the Rights of the Child)?
and ???
(taishi, towards)?
is similar to that between ?????
(tsuujo-kokkai, the ordinary Diet ses-sion)?
(ni, case marker)?
and ???
(muke, to-wards)?
in the input sentence, this translationpair was selected in the fourth step.
Finally,the bunsetsu ????????????
(kokuren-kodomo-no-kenri-iinkai, the UN Committee onthe Rights of the Child) ?
(ni, case marker)?and its translation ?the UN Committee on theRights of the Child?
was used for generation ofa parallel translation in the fifth step.When we use the generated parallel transla-tion for the exact translation of the input sen-tence, we should replace ????????????
(kokuren-kodomo-no-kenri-iinkai)?
and itstranslation ?the UN Committee on the Rightsof the Child?
with ?????
(tsuujo-kokkai, theordinary Diet session)?
and its translation ?theordinary Diet session?
by consulting a bilingualdictionary.
In this example, ???
(sono)?
and?them?
should also be replaced with ???
(ry-oto)?
and ?both parties?.
It is easy to identifywords in the generated translation that shouldbe replaced with words in the input sentencebecause each bunsetsu in translation pairs is al-ready aligned.
In such cases, templates such as?[??
(kaigi)]?
(ni)??
(muke)?
and ?towards[council]?
can be automatically generated bygeneralizing content words expanded in the sec-ond step and their translation in the generatedtranslation.
The average number of English ex-pressions corresponding to a Japanese expres-sion is 1.3 as shown in Table 2.
Even when thereare two or more possible English expressions, anappropriate English expression can be chosenby selecting a Japanese expression by referringto dependencies in extracted translation pairs.Therefore, in many cases, English sentences canbe generated just by reordering the selected ex-pressions.
The English word order was esti-mated manually in this experiment.
However,we can automatically estimate English word or-der by using a language model or an Englishsurface sentence generator such as FERGUS(Bangalore and Rambow, 2000).
Unnatural orungrammatical parallel translations are some-times generated in the above steps.
However,comprehensible translations can be generatedas shown in Figure 4.
The biggest advantageof this framework is that comprehensible targetsentences can be generated basically by refer-ring only to source sentences.
Although it iscostly to search and select appropriate transla-tion pairs, we believe that human labor can bereduced by developing a human interface.
Forexample, when we use a Japanese text gener-ation system from keywords (Uchimoto et al,2002), users should only select appropriate key-words.We are investigating whether or not we cangenerate similar parallel translations to all ofthe Japanese sentences appearing on January17, 1995.
So far, we found that we can gen-erate similar parallel translations to 691 out of840 sentences (the average number of bunsetsusis about 10.3) including the 102 sentences de-scribed in Section 3.3.
We found that we couldnot generate similar parallel translations to 149out of 840 sentences.In the proposed framework of similar paral-lel translation generation, the language appear-ing in a corpus corresponds to a controlled lan-guage, and users are allowed to use only thecontrolled language to write sentences in thesource language.
We believe that high-qualitybilingual or multilingual documents can be gen-erated by letting us adapt ourselves to the con-trolled environment in this way.4 ConclusionThis paper described aligned parallel treebankcorpora of newspaper articles between lan-guages whose syntactic structures are differentfrom each other; they meet the following condi-tions.1.
It is easy to investigate the influence of the con-text on the translation.2.
The annotated information in the existingmonolingual high-quality treebanks can be uti-lized.3.
It is open to the public.To construct parallel corpora that satisfythese conditions, each sentence in the existingmonolingual high-quality treebanks has beentranslated into a corresponding natural sentencereflecting its contextual information in a targetlanguage by skilled translators, and each par-allel translation has been annotated with mor-phological and syntactic structures and phrasalalignment.This paper also described the possible ap-plications of the parallel corpus and proposeda similar parallel translation generation frame-work.
In this framework, a parallel translationwhose source language sentence is similar to agiven sentence can be semi-automatically gen-erated.
In this paper we demonstrated thatthe framework could be achieved by using ouraligned parallel treebank corpus.In the near future, the aligned parallel tree-bank corpora will be open to the public, andexpanded.
We are planning to use the corporaactively for machine translation, as a transla-tion aid, and for second language learning.
Weare also planning to develop automatic or semi-automatic alignment system and an efficient in-terface for machine translation aid.Input sentence(Japanese only)???????????????????????????????????????????
(Prime MinisterMurayama and Finance Minister Takemura met in the presidential office and they exchanged theiropinions, mainly on the issue of the new faction being formed by the New Democratic Union.
)Generated paral-lel translation(J) ????????????????????????????????????????????
(E) Finance Minister Takemura held the meeting at the official residence to exchange views about theformation of the new party of the New Democratic Union.Input sentence(Japanese only)????????????????????????????????????????????????
(NewParty Sakigake proposed that towards the ordinary session, both parties found a council to discuss policyand Diet management.
)Generated paral-lel translation(J) ???????????????????????????????????????????????????????
(E) Sakigake proposed to set up an organization between them towards the UN Committee on the Rightsof the Child to discuss under the theme of policies and the management of the Diet.Input sentence(Japanese only)?????????????????????????????????????????????
(The meetingwas also intended to slow the movement towards the new party by the New Democratic Union, which istrying to deepen the relationship with the New Frontier Party.
)Generated paral-lel translation(J) ?????????????????????????????????????????????
(E) The meeting had meanings to restrict the movement that the new party of New Democratic Unionis progressing to strengthen the coalition with The New Frontier Party.Input sentence(Japanese only)????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
(Lower House Diet Member Tatsuo Kawabata of the New Frontier Party decided on the16th that he would hand in notification of his secession to the party on the 17th, in order to form a newfaction with Sadao Yamahana?s group.
)Generated paral-lel translation(J) ?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
(E) On 16th Tatsuo Kawabata, a member of the House of Representatives of the New Frontier Partydecided to submit The notice to leave the party to the Shinsei Party on the 17th in order to establish anew faction with Yuukichi Amano and others.Input sentence(Japanese only)???????????????????????????
(As for the faction name in the Upper House,they will decide after they consider how to form a relationship with Democratic Reform Union.
)Generated paral-lel translation(J) ?????????????????????
(E) The name of the faction will be decided after discussing the relationship with the JTUC.Figure 4: Example of generated similar parallel translations.AcknowledgmentsWe thank the Mainichi Newspapers for permis-sion to use their data.ReferencesATR.
1992.
Dialogue Database.
http://www.red.atr.co.jp/database page/taiwa.html.S.
Bangalore and O. Rambow.
2000.
Exploiting a Probabilis-tic Hierarchical Model for Generation.
In Proceedings ofthe COLING, pages 42?48.E.
Charniak.
1999.
A Maximum-Entropy-Inspired Parser.Technical Report CS-99-12.U.
Germann, M. Jahr, K. Knight, D. Marcu, and K. Yamada2001.
Fast Decoding and Optimal Decoding for MachineTranslation.
In Proceedings of the ACL-EACL, pages 228?235.K.
Imamura.
2002.
Application of translation knowledge ac-quired by hierarchical phrase alignment for pattern-basedMT.
In Proceedings of the TMI, pages 74?84.H.
Isahara and M. Haruno.
2000.
Japanese-English alignedbilingual corpora.
In Jean Veronis, editor, Parallel TextProcessing - Alignment and Use of Translation Corpora,pages 313?334.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.S.
Kurohashi and M. Nagao.
1997.
Building a JapaneseParsed Corpus while Improving the Parsing System.
InProceedings of the NLPRS, pages 451?456.M.
P. Marcus, B. Santorini, and M. A. Marcinkiewicz.
1993.Building a Large Annotated Corpus of English: The PennTreebank.
Computational Linguistics, 19(2):313?330.M.
Nagao.
1981.
A Framework of a Mechanical Translationbetween Japanese and English by Analogy Principle.
InProceedings of the International NATO Symposium on Ar-tificial and Human Intelligence.F.
J. Och and H. Ney.
2000.
Improved Statistical AlignmentModels.
In Proceedings of the ACL, pages 440?447.K.
Uchimoto, S. Sekine, and H. Isahara.
2002.
Text Gen-eration from Keywords.
In Proceedings of the COLING,pages 1037?1043.H.
Watanabe, S. Kurohashi, and E. Aramaki.
2003.
FindingTranslation Patterns from Paired Source and Target De-pendency Structures.
In Michael Carl and Andy Way, ed-itors, Recent Advances in Example-Based Machine Trans-lation, pages 397?420.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.K.
Yamada and K. Knight.
2001.
A Syntax-based StatisticalTranslation Model.
In Proceedings of the ACL, pages 523?530.K.
Yamamoto and Y. Matsumoto.
2003.
Extracting Transla-tion Knowledge from Parallel Corpora.
In Michael Carland Andy Way, editors, Recent Advances in Example-Based Machine Translation, pages 365?395.
Kluwer Aca-demic Publishers.Q.
Zhou and H. Duan.
1994.
Segmentation and POS Tag-ging in the Construction of Contemporary Chinese Cor-pus.
Journal of Computer Science of China, Vol.85.
(inChinese)
