A Design Methodology for a Biomedical Literature Indexing ToolUsing the Rhetoric of ScienceRobert E. MercerUniversity of Western Ontario,London, Ontario, N6A 5B7mercer@csd.uwo.caChrysanne Di MarcoUniversity of Waterloo,Waterloo, Ontario, N2L 3G1cdimarco@uwaterloo.caAbstractLiterature indexing tools provide re-searchers with a means to navigatethrough the network of scholarly scientificarticles in a subject domain.
We proposethat more effective indexing tools may bedesigned using the links between articlesprovided by citations.With the explosion in the amount of sci-entific literature and with the advent of ar-tifacts requiring more sophisticated index-ing, a means to provide more informationabout the citation relation in order to givemore intelligent control to the navigationprocess is warranted.
In order to navigatea citation index in this more-sophisticatedmanner, the citation index must providenot only the citation-link information, butalso must indicate the function of the cita-tion.
The design methodology of an in-dexing tool for scholarly biomedical lit-erature which uses the rhetorical contextsurrounding the citation to provide the ci-tation function is presented.
In particular,we discuss how the scientific method is re-flected in scientific writing and how thisknowledge can be used to decide the pur-pose of a citation.1 Introduction1.1 The aim of citation indexingIndexing tools, such as CiteSeer (Bollacker et al, 1999),play an important role in the scientific endeavour byproviding researchers with a means to navigate throughthe network of scholarly scientific papers using the con-nections provided by citations.
Citations relate articleswithin a research field by linking together works whosemethods and results are in some way mutually relevant.Customarily, authors include citations in their papers toindicate works that are foundational in their field, back-ground for their own work, or representative of comple-mentary or contradictory research.
Another researchermay then use the presence of citations to locate articlesshe needs to know about when entering a new field or toread in order to keep track of progress in a field where sheis already well-established.
But, with the explosion in theamount of scientific literature, a means to provide moreinformation in order to give more intelligent control to thenavigation process is warranted.
A user normally wantsto navigate more purposefully than ?Find all articles cit-ing a source article?.
Rather, the user may wish to knowwhether other experiments have used similar techniquesto those used in the source article, or whether other workshave reported conflicting experimental results.
In order tonavigate a citation index in this more-sophisticated man-ner, the citation index must contain not only the citation-link information, but also must indicate the function ofthe citation in the citing article.The goal of our research project is the design and im-plementation of an indexing tool for scholarly biomedicalliterature which uses the text surrounding the citation toprovide information about the binary relation between thetwo papers connected by a citation.
In particular, we areinterested in how the scientific method structures the wayin which ideas, results, theories, etc.
are presented in sci-entific writing and how the style of presentation indicatesthe purpose of citations, that is, what the relationship isbetween the cited and citing papers.Our interest in the connection between scientific lit-erature (our focus), ontologies, and databases is that thecontent and structure of each of these three repositoriesof scientific knowledge has its foundations in the methodof science.
Our purpose here is twofold: to make explicitour design methodology for an indexing tool that usesAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Linking Biological Literature, Ontologies and Databases, pp.
77-84.HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop: Biolink 2004,the rhetoric of science as its foundation to see whether theideas that underly our methodology can cross-fertilize theenquiry into the other two areas, and to discuss the toolitself with the purpose of making known that there existsa working tool which can assist the development of otherprojects.A citation may be formally defined as a portion of asentence in a citing document which references anotherdocument or a set of other documents collectively.
Forexample, in sentence 1 below, there are two citations:the first citation is Although the 3-D structure.
.
.
progress,with the set of references (Eger et al, 1994; Kelly, 1994);the second citation is it was shown.
.
.
submasses with thesingle reference (Coughlan et al, 1986).
(1) Although the 3-D structure analysis by x-raycrystallography is still in progress (Eger et al,1994; Kelly, 1994), it was shown by electronmicroscopy that XO consists of three submasses(Coughlan et al, 1986).A citation index enables efficient retrieval of docu-ments from a large collection?a citation index consistsof source items and their corresponding lists of biblio-graphic descriptions of citing works.
The use of citationindexing of scientific articles was invented by Dr. EugeneGarfield in the 1950s as a result of studies on problemsof medical information retrieval and indexing of biomed-ical literature.
Dr. Garfield later founded the Institutefor Scientific Information (ISI), whose Science CitationIndex (Garfield, no date) is now one of the most popu-lar citation indexes.
Recently, with the advent of digi-tal libraries, Web-based indexing systems have begun toappear (e.g., ISI?s ?Web of Knowledge?, CiteSeer (Bol-lacker et al, 1999)).Authors of scientific papers normally include citationsin their papers to indicate works that are connected in animportant way to their paper.
Thus, a citation connect-ing the source document and a citing document servesone of many functions.
For example, one function is thatthe citing work gives some form of credit to the workreported in the source article.
Another function is tocriticize previous work.
Other functions include: foun-dational works in their field, background for their ownwork, works which are representative of complementaryor contradictory research.The aim of citation analysis studies has been to cate-gorize and, ultimately, to classify the function of scien-tific citations automatically.
Many citation classificationschemes have been developed, with great variance in thenumber and nature of categories used.
Garfield (1965)was the first to define a classification scheme, whileFinney (1979) was the first to suggest that a citation clas-sifier could be automated.
Other classification schemesinclude those by Cole (1975), Duncan, Anderson, andMcAleese (1981), Frost (1979), Lipetz (1965), Moravc-sik and Murugesan (1975), Peritz (1983), Small (1978),Spiegel-Ro?sing (1977), and Weinstock (1971).
Withinthis representative group of classification schemes, thenumber of categories ranges from four to 26.
Examplesof these categories include a contrastive, supportive, orcorrective relationship between citing and cited works.But, the author?s purpose for including a citation is notapparent in the citation per se.
Determining the natureof the exact relationship between a citing and cited paperoften requires some level of understanding of the text inwhich the citation is embedded.1.2 Citation indexing in biomedical literatureanalysisIn the biomedical field, we believe that the usefulnessof automated citation classification in literature indexingcan be found in both the larger context of managing entiredatabases of scientific articles or for specific information-extraction problems.
On the larger scale, database cura-tors need accurate and efficient methods for building newcollections by retrieving articles on the same topic fromhuge general databases.
Simple systems (e.g., (Andradeand Valencia, 1998), (Marcotte et al, 2001)) consideronly keyword frequencies in measuring article similarity.More-sophisticated systems, such as the Neighbors utility(Wilbur and Coffee, 1994), may be able to locate articlesthat appear to be related in some way (e.g., finding relatedMedline abstracts for a set of protein names (Blaschke etal., 1999)), but the lack of specific information about thenature and validity of the relationship between articlesmay still make the resulting collection a less-than-idealresource for subsequent analysis.
Citation classificationto indicate the nature of the relationships between articlesin a database would make the task of building collectionsof related articles both easier and more accurate.
And, theexistence of additional knowledge about the nature of thelinkages between articles would greatly enhance naviga-tion among a space of documents to retrieve meaningfulinformation about the related content.A specific problem in information extraction that maybenefit from the use of citation categorization involvesmining the literature for protein-protein interactions (e.g.,(Blaschke et al, 1999), (Marcotte et al, 2001), (Thomaset al, 2000)).
Currently, even the most-sophisticated sys-tems are not yet capable of dealing with all the difficultproblems of resolving ambiguities and detecting hiddenknowledge.
For example, Blaschke et al?s system (1999)is able to handle fairly complex problems in detectingprotein-protein interactions, including constructing thenetwork of protein interactions in cell-cycle control, butimportant implicit knowledge is not recognized.
In thecase of cell-cycle analysis for Drosophila, their system isable to determine that relationships exist between Cak,Cdk7, CycH, and Cdk2: Cak inhibits/phosphorylatesCdk7, Cak activates/phosphorylates Cdk2, Cdk7 phos-phorylates Cdk2, CycH phosphorylates Cak and CycHphosphorylates Cdk2.
However, the system is not ableto detect that Cak is actually a complex formed by Cdk7and CycH, and that the Cak complex regulates Cdk2.While the earlier literature describes inter-relationshipsamong these proteins, the recognition of the generaliza-tion in their structure, i.e., that these proteins are partof a complex, is contained only in more-recent articles:?There is an element of generalization implicit in laterpublications, embodying previous, more dispersed find-ings.
A clear improvement here would be the generationof associated weights for texts according to their levelof generality?
(Blaschke et al, 1999).
Citation catego-rization could provide just these kind of ?ancestral?
re-lationships between articles?whether an article is foun-dational in the field or builds directly on closely relatedwork?and, if automated, could be used in forming col-lections of articles for study that are labelled with ex-plicit semantic and rhetorical links to one another.
Suchcollections of semantically linked articles might then beused as ?thematic?
document clusters (cf.
Wilbur (2002))to elicit much more meaningful information from docu-ments known to be closely related.An added benefit of having citation categories avail-able in text corpora used for studies such as extract-ing protein-protein interactions is that more, and more-meaningful, information may be obtained.
In a potentialapplication for our research, Blaschke et al (1999) notedthat they were able to discover many more protein-proteininteractions when including in the corpus those articlesfound to be related by the Neighbors facility (Wilbur andCoffee, 1994) (285 versus only 28 when relevant proteinnames alone were used in building the corpus).
Lastly,very difficult problems in scientific and biomedical infor-mation extraction that involve aspects of deep-linguisticmeaning may be resolved through the availability of cita-tion categorization in curated texts: synonym detection,for example, may be enhanced if different names for thesame entity occur in articles that can be recognized asbeing closely related in the scientific research process.2 Our Guiding Principles2.1 Scientific writing and the rhetoric of scienceThe automated labelling of citations with a specific ci-tation function requires an analysis of the linguistic fea-tures in the text surrounding the citation, coupled witha knowledge of the author?s pragmatic intent in placingthe citation at that point in the text.
The author?s pur-pose for including citations in a research article reflectsthe fact that researchers wish to communicate their resultsto their scientific community in such a way that their re-sults, or knowledge claims, become accepted as part ofthe body of scientific knowledge.
This persuasive na-ture of the scientific research article, how it contributes tomaking and justifying a knowledge claim, is recognizedas the defining property of scientific writing by rhetori-cians of science, e.g., (Gross, 1996), (Gross et al, 2002),(Hyland, 1998), (Myers, 1991).
Style (lexical and syntac-tic choice), presentation (organization of the text and dis-play of the data), and argumentation structure are noted asthe rhetorical means by which authors build a convincingcase for their results.Our approach to automated citation classification isbased on the detection of fine-grained linguistics cues inscientific articles that help to communicate these rhetori-cal stances and thereby map to the pragmatic purpose ofcitations.
As part of our overall research methodology,our goal is to map the various types of pragmatic cuesin scientific articles to rhetorical meaning.
Our previouswork has described the importance of discourse cues inenhancing inter-article cohesion signalled by citation us-age (Mercer and Di Marco, 2003), (Di Marco and Mercer,2003).
We have also been investigating another class ofpragmatic cues, hedging cues, (Mercer, Di Marco, andKroon, 2004), that are deeply involved in creating thepragmatic effects that contribute to the author?s knowl-edge claim by linking together a mutually supportive net-work of researchers within a scientific community.2.2 Results of our previous studiesIn our preliminary study (Mercer and Di Marco, 2003),we analyzed the frequency of the cue phrases from(Marcu, 1997) in a set of scholarly scientific articles.
Wereported strong evidence that these cue phrases are usedin the citation sentences and the surrounding text withthe same frequency as in the article as a whole.
In sub-sequent work (Di Marco and Mercer, 2003), we analyzedthe same dataset of articles to begin to catalogue the fine-grained discourse cues that exist in citation contexts.
Thisstudy confirmed that authors do indeed have a rich setof linguistic and non-linguistic methods to establish dis-course cues in citation contexts.Another type of linguistic cue that we are studying isrelated to hedging effects in scientific writing that areused by an author to modify the affect of a ?knowledgeclaim?.
Hedging in scientific writing has been exten-sively studied by Hyland (1998), including cataloging thepragmatic functions of the various types of hedging cues.As Hyland (1998) explains, ?
[Hedging] has subsequentlybeen applied to the linguistic devices used to qualify aspeaker?s confidence in the truth of a proposition, the kindof caveats like I think, perhaps, might, and maybe whichwe routinely add to our statements to avoid commitmentto categorical assertions.
Hedges therefore express tenta-tiveness and possibility in communication, and their ap-propriate use in scientific discourse is critical (p. 1)?.The following examples illustrate some of the ways inwhich hedging may be used to deliberately convey an atti-tude of uncertainty or qualifification.
In the first example,the use of the verb suggested hints at the author?s hesi-tancy to declare the absolute certainty of the claim:(2) The functional significance of this modulationis suggested by the reported inhibition of MeSo-induced differentiation in mouse erythroleukemiacells constitutively expressing c-myb.In the second example, the syntactic structure of the sen-tence, a fronted adverbial clause, emphasizes the effectof qualification through the rhetorical cue Although.
Thesubsequent phrase, a certain degree, is a lexical modifierthat also serves to limit the scope of the result:(3) Although many neuroblastoma cell lines showa certain degree of heterogeneity in terms of neu-rotransmitter expression and differentiative po-tential, each cell has a prevalent behavior in re-sponse to differentiation inducers.In Mercer (2004), we showed that the hedging cues pro-posed by Hyland occur more frequently in citation con-texts than in the text as a whole.
With this informationwe conjecture that hedging cues are an important aspectof the rhetorical relations found in citation contexts andthat the pragmatics of hedges may help in determiningthe purpose of citations.We investigated this hypothesis by doing a frequencyanalysis of hedging cues in citation contexts in a corpusof 985 biology articles.
We obtained statistically signifi-cant results (summarized in Table 1 indicating that hedg-ing is used more frequently in citation contexts than thetext as a whole.
Given the presumption that writers makestylistic and rhetorical choices purposefully, we proposethat we have further evidence that connections betweenfine-grained linguistic cues and rhetorical relations existin citation contexts.Table 1 shows the proportions of the various typesof sentences that contain hedging cues, broken down byhedging-cue category (verb or nonverb cues), accordingto the different sections in the articles (background, meth-ods, results and discussion, conclusions).
For all but onecombination, citation sentences are more likely to containhedging cues than would be expected from the overall fre-quency of hedge sentences (  ).
Citation ?window?sentences (i.e., sentences in the text close to a citation)generally are also significantly ( 	  ) more likely tocontain hedging cues than expected, though for certaincombinations (methods, verbs and nonverbs; res+disc,verbs) the difference was not significant.Tables 2, 3, and 4 summarize the occurrence of hedg-ing cues in citation ?contexts?
(a citation sentence and thesurrounding citation window).
Table 5 shows the propor-tion of hedge sentences that either contain a citation, orfall within a citation window; Table 5 suggests (last 3-column column) that the proportion of hedge sentencescontaining citations or being part of citation windows isat least as great as what would be expected just by thedistribution of citation sentences and citation windows.Table 1 indicates (statistically significant) that in mostcases the proportion of hedge sentences in the cita-tion contexts is greater than what would be expectedby the distribution of hedge sentences.
Taken together,these conditional probabilities support the conjecture thathedging cues and citation contexts correlate strongly.
Hy-land (1998) has catalogued a variety of pragmatic uses ofhedging cues, so it is reasonable to speculate that theseuses can be mapped to the rhetorical meaning of the textsurrounding a citation, and from thence to the function ofthe citation.3 Our Design Methodology3.1 The ToolThe indexing tool that we are designing enhances a stan-dard citation index by labelling each citation with thefunction of that citation.
That is, given an agreed-uponset of citation functions, our tool will categorize a cita-tion automatically into one of these functional categories.To accomplish this automatic categorization we are usinga decision tree: given a set of features, which combina-tions of features map to which citation function.
Our cur-rent focus is the biomedical literature, but we are certainthat our tool can be used for the experimental sciences.We are not certain whether the tool can be generalizedbeyond this corpus (Frost, 1979).In the following we describe in more detail the three as-pects of our design methodology: the research program,the tool implementation, and its evaluation.
Our basicassumption is that citations form links to other articlesfor much the same purpose and in much the same way aslinks to other parts of the same article.
These intra-textualand inter-textual linkages are made to create a coherentpresentation to convince the reader that the content of thearticle is of value.
The presentation is made cohesive byuse of linguistic and stylistic devices that have been cata-logued by rhetoricians and which we believe may be de-tected by automated means.The research program willdevelop a catalogue of linguistic and non-linguistic cues that capture both the linguisticand stylistic techniques as well as the extensivebody of knowledge that has accumulated aboutthe rhetoric of science and how science is writtenabout;Table 1: Proportion of sentences containing hedging cues, by type of sentence and hedging cue category.Verb Cues Nonverb Cues All CuesCite Wind All Cite Wind All Cite Wind Allbackground 0.15 0.11 0.13 0.13 0.13 0.12 0.25 0.22 0.24methods 0.09 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.14 0.10 0.09res+disc 0.22 0.16 0.16 0.15 0.14 0.14 0.32 0.27 0.27conclusions 0.29 0.22 0.20 0.18 0.19 0.15 0.42 0.36 0.32Table 2: Number and proportion of citation contexts containing a hedging cue, by section and location of hedging cue.Contexts Sentences Windows# % # % # %background 3361 0.33 2575 0.25 2679 0.26methods 1089 0.18 801 0.14 545 0.09res+disc 7257 0.44 5366 0.32 4660 0.28conclusions 338 0.58 245 0.42 221 0.38develop computationally realizable methods todetect these cues;connect these cues to rhetorical relations; andorganize the knowledge that these rhetorical rela-tions represent as features in a decision tree thatproduces the intended function of the citation.Our purpose in using a decision tree is three-fold.Firstly, the decision tree gives us ready access to thecitation-function decision rules.
Secondly, we aim tohave a working indexing tool whenever we add moreknowledge to the categorization process.
This goal ap-pears very feasible given our design choice to use adecision tree: adding more knowledge only refines thedecision-making procedure of the previous version.
Andthirdly, as we gain more experience (currently, we arebuilding the decision tree by hand), we intend to use ma-chine learning techniques to enhance our tool by inducinga decision tree.3.2 The Research ProgramOur basic assumption is that the rhetorical relations thatwill provide the information that will allow the tool to cat-egorize the citations in a biomedical article are evident tothe reader through the use of surface linguistic cues, cueswhich are linguistically-based but require some knowl-edge that is not directly derivable from the text, and somecues which are known to the culture of scientific readers-writers because of the practice of science and how thispractice influences communication through the writing.We rely on the notion that rhetorical information isrealized in linguistic ?cues?
in the text, some of which,although not all, are evident in surface features (cf.
Hy-land (1998) on surface hedging cues in scientific writing).Since we anticipate that many such cues will map to thesame rhetorical features that give evidence of the text?sargumentative and pragmatic meaning, and that the inter-action of these cues will likely influence the text?s overallrhetorical effect, the formal rhetorical relation (cf.
(Mannand Thompson, 1988)) appears to be the appropriate fea-ture for the basis of the decision tree.
So, our long-termgoal is to map between the textual cues and rhetorical re-lations.
Having noted that many of the cue words in theprototype are discourse cues, and with two recent impor-tant works linking discourse cues and rhetorical relations((Knott, 1996; Marcu, 1997)), we began our investigationof this mapping with discourse cues.
We have some earlyresults that show that discourse cues are used extensivelywith citations and that some cues appear much more fre-quently in the citation context than in the full text (Mercerand Di Marco, 2003).
Another textual device is the hedg-ing cue, which we are currently investigating (Mercer, DiMarco, and Kroon, 2004).Although our current efforts focus on cue words whichare connected to organizational effects (discourse cues),and writer intent (hedging cues), we are also interestedin other types of cues that are associated more closelyto the purpose and method of science.
For example, thescientific method is, more or less, to establish a link toprevious work, set up an experiment to test an hypothe-sis, perform the experiment, make observations, then fi-nally compile and discuss the importance of the results ofthe experiment.
Scientific writing reflects this scientificmethod and its purpose: one may find evidence even atthe coarsest granularity of the IMRaD structure in scien-tific articles.
At a finer granularity, we have many target-Table 3: Proportion of citation contexts containing a verbal hedging cue, by section and location of hedging cue.Contexts Sentences Windows# % # % # %background 1967 0.19 1511 0.15 1479 0.15methods 726 0.12 541 0.09 369 0.06res+disc 4858 0.29 3572 0.22 2881 0.17conclusions 227 0.39 168 0.29 139 0.24Table 4: Proportion of citation contexts containing a nonverb hedging cue, by section and location of hedging cue.Contexts Sentences Windows# % # % # %background 1862 0.18 1302 0.13 1486 0.15methods 432 0.07 295 0.05 198 0.03res+disc 3751 0.23 2484 0.15 2353 0.14conclusions 186 0.32 107 0.18 111 0.19ted words to convey the notions of procedure, observa-tion, reporting, supporting, explaining, refining, contra-dicting, etc.
More specifically, science categorizes intotaxonomies or creates polarities.
Scientific writing thentends to compare and contrast or refine.
Not surpris-ingly, the morphology of scientific terminology exhibitscomparison and contrasting features, for example, exo-and endo-.
Science needs to measure, so scientific writ-ing contains measurement cues by referring to scales (0?100), or using comparatives (larger, brighter, etc.).
Ex-periments are described as a sequence of steps, so this isan implicit method cue.Since the inception of the formal scientific article inthe seventeenth century, the process of scientific discov-ery has been inextricably linked with the actions of writ-ing and publishing the results of research.
Rhetoriciansof science have gradually moved from a purely descrip-tive characterization of the science genre to full-fledgedfield studies detailing the evolution of the scientific arti-cle.
During the first generation of rhetoricians of science,e.g., (Myers, 1991), (Gross, 1996), (Fahnestock, 1999),the persuasive nature of the scientific article, how it con-tributes to making and justifying a knowledge claim, wasrecognized as the defining property of scientific writing.Style (lexical and syntactic choice), presentation (orga-nization of the text and display of the data), and argu-mentation structure were noted as the rhetorical meansby which authors build a convincing case for their results.Recently, second-generation rhetoricians of science (e.g.,(Hyland, 1998), (Gross et al, 2002)) have begun to me-thodically analyze large corpora of scientific texts withthe purpose of cataloguing specific stylistic and rhetoricalfeatures that are used to create the pragmatic effects thatcontribute to the author?s knowledge claim.
One particu-lar type of pragmatic effect, hedging, is especially com-mon in scientific writing and can be realized through awide variety of linguistic choices.To catalogue these cues and to propose a mapping fromthese cues to rhetorical relations, we suggest a researchprogram that consists of two phases.
One phase is theory-based: we are applying our knowledge from computa-tional linguistics and the rhetoric of science to develop aset of principles that guide the development of rules.
An-other phase is data-driven.
This phase will use machine-learning techniques to induce a decision tree.Our two approaches are guided by a number of factors.Firstly, the initial set of 35 categories ((Garzone, 1996),(Garzone and Mercer, 2000)) were developed by combin-ing and adding to the previous work from the informationscience community with a preliminary manual study ofcitations in biochemistry and physics articles.
Secondly,our next stages, cataloguing linguistic cues, will requiremanual work by rhetoricians.
Thirdly, and perhaps mostimportantly, one group of cues is not found in the text,but is rather a set of cultural guidelines that are acceptedby the scientific community for which the article is beingwritten.
Lastly, we are interested not in the connectionbetween the citation functions and these cues per se, butrather the citation functions and the rhetorical relationsthat are signalled by the cues.3.3 The Tool ImplementationConcerning the features on which the decision tree makesits decisions, we have started with a simple, yet fullyautomatic prototype (Garzone, 1996) which takes jour-nal articles as input and classifies every citation foundtherein.
Its decision tree is very shallow, using only setsof cue-words and polarity switching words (not, however,Table 5: Proportion of hedge sentences that contain citations or are part of a citation window, by section and hedgingcue category.Verb Cues Nonverb Cues All CuesCite Wind None Cite Wind None Cite Wind Nonebackground 0.52 0.23 0.25 0.47 0.28 0.25 0.49 0.26 0.26methods 0.25 0.16 0.59 0.20 0.15 0.65 0.23 0.16 0.61res+disc 0.26 0.19 0.55 0.21 0.19 0.60 0.23 0.19 0.58conclusions 0.16 0.14 0.70 0.14 0.16 0.70 0.15 0.14 0.71etc.
), some simple knowledge about the IMRaD struc-ture1 of the article together with some simple syntacticstructure of the citation-containing sentence.
The proto-type uses 35 citation categories.
In addition to havinga design which allows for easy incorporation of more-sophisticated knowledge, it also gives flexibility to thetool: categories can be easily coalesced to give users atool that can be tailored to a variety of uses.Although we anticipate some small changes to thenumber of categories due to category refinement, the ma-jor modifications to the decision tree will be driven bya more-sophisticated set of features associated with eachcitation.
When investigating a finer granularity of the IM-RaD structure, we came to realize that the structure ofscientific writing at all levels of granularity was foundedon rhetoric, which involves both argumentation structureas well as stylistic choices of words and syntax.
This wasthe motivation for choosing the rhetoric of science as ourguiding principle.3.4 Evaluation of the ToolFinally, as for our prototype system, at each stage of de-velopment the tool will be evaluated:A test set of citations will be developed andwill be initially manually categorized by humansknowledgeable in the scientific field that the arti-cles represent.Of most essential interest, the classification accu-racy of the citation-indexing tool will be evalu-ated: we propose to use a combination of statisti-cal testing and validation by human experts.In addition, we would like to assess the tool?s util-ity in real-world applications such as database cu-ration for studies in biomedical literature analy-sis.
We have suggested earlier that there may bemany uses of this tool, so a significant aspect ofthe value of our tool will be its ability to enhanceother research projects.1The corpus of biomedical papers all have the standard In-troduction, Methods, Results, and Discussion or a slightly mod-ified version in which Results and Discussion are merged.4 Conclusions and Future WorkThe purposeful nature of citation function is a feature ofscientific writing which can be exploited in a variety ofways.
We anticipate more-informative citation indexes aswell as more-intelligent database curation.
Additionally,sophisticated information extraction may be enhancedwhen better selection of the dataset is enabled.
For ex-ample, synonym detection in a corpus of papers may bemade more tractable when the corpus is comprised of re-lated papers derived from navigating a space of linkedcitations.In this paper we have motivated our approach to devel-oping a literature-indexing tool that computes the func-tions of citations.
We have proposed that the function of acitation may be determined by analyzing the rhetorical in-tent of the text that surrounds it.
This analysis is foundedon the guiding principle that the scientific method is in-trinsic to scientific writing.Our early investigations have determined that linguis-tic cues and citations are related in important ways.
Ourfuture work will be to map these linguistic cues to rhetor-ical relations and other pragmatic functions so that thisinformation can then be used to determine the purpose ofcitations.AcknowledgementsWe thank Mark Garzone and Fred Kroon for their par-ticipation in this project.
Our research has been finan-cially supported by the Natural Sciences and EngineeringResearch Council of Canada and by the Universities ofWestern Ontario and Waterloo.ReferencesMiguel A. Andrade and Alfonso Valencia.
1998.
Au-tomatic Extraction of Keywords from Scientific Text:Application to the Knowledge Domain of Protein Fam-ilies.
Bioinformatics, 14(7):600?607.Christian Blaschke, Miguel A. Andrade, Christos Ouzou-nis, and Alfonso Valencia.
1999.
Automatic Extrac-tion of Biological Information from Scientific Text:Protein-Protein Interactions.
International Conferenceon Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology (ISMB1999), 60?67.B.
Bollacker, S. Lawrence, and C.L.
Giles.
1999.
A Sys-tem for Automatic Personalized Tracking of ScientificLiterature on the Web.
In Digital Libraries 99?TheFourth ACM Conference on Digital Libraries, 105?113.
ACM Press, New York.S.
Cole.
1975.
The Growth of Scientific Knowledge:Theories of Deviance as a Case Study.
In The Idea ofSocial Structure: Papers in Honor of Robert K. Mer-ton, 175?220.
Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, New York.Chrysanne Di Marco and Robert E. Mercer.
2003.
To-ward a Catalogue of Citation-related Rhetorical Cuesin Scientific Texts.
In Proceedings of the PacificAssociation for Computational Linguistics (PACLING2003) Conference.
Halifax, Canada, August 2003.E.B.
Duncan, F.D.
Anderson, and R. McAleese.
1981.Qualified Citation Indexing: Its Relevance to Educa-tional Technology.
In Information Retrieval in Edu-cational Technology: Proceedings of the First Sympo-sium on Information Retrieval in Educational Technol-ogy, 70?79.
University of Aberdeen.Jeanne Fahnestock.
1999.
Rhetorical Figures in Science.Oxford University Press.B.
Finney.
1979.
The Reference Characteristics of Sci-entific Texts.
Master?s thesis, The City University ofLondon.C.
Frost.
1979.
The Use of Citations in Literary Re-search: A Preliminary Classification of Citation Func-tions.
Library Quarterly, 49:399?414.Eugene Garfield.
1965.
Can Citation Indexing Be au-tomated?
In M.E.
Stevens et al, editors, StatisticalAssociation Methods for Mechanical Documentation(NBS Misc.
Pub.
269).
National Bureau of Standards,Washington, DC.Eugene Garfield.
Information, Power, and the ScienceCitation Index.
In Essays of an Information Scientist,Volume 1, 1962?1973, Institute for Scientific Infor-mation.Mark Garzone.
1996.
Automated Classification of Ci-tations using Linguistic Semantic Grammars.
M.Sc.Thesis, The University of Western Ontario.Mark Garzone and Robert E. Mercer.
2000.
To-wards an Automated Citation Classifier.
In AI?2000,Proceedings of the 13th Biennial Conference of theCSCSI/SCEIO, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence,1822:337?346, H.J.
Hamilton (ed.).
Springer-Verlag.A.G.
Gross.
1996.
The Rhetoric of Science.
HarvardUniversity Press.A.G.
Gross, J.E.
Harmon, and M. Reidy.
2002.
Commu-nicating Science: The Scientific Article from the 17thCentury to the Present.
Oxford University Press.M.A.K.
Halliday and Ruqaiya Hasan.
1976.
Cohesion inEnglish.
Longman Group Limited.Ken Hyland.
1998.
Hedging in Scientific Research Arti-cles.
John Benjamins Publishing Company.Alistair Knott.
1996.
A Data-driven Methodology forMotivating a Set of Coherence Relations.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Edinburgh.B.A.
Lipetz.
1965.
Problems of Citation Analysis: Criti-cal Review.
American Documentation, 16:381?390.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.
1988.Rhetorical Structure Theory: Toward a FunctionalTheory of Text Organization.
Text, 8(3):243?281.Edward M. Marcotte, Ioannis Xenarios, and David Eisen-berg.
2001.
Mining Literature for Protein-Protein In-teractions.
Bioinformatics, 17(4):359?363.Daniel Marcu.
1997.
The Rhetorical Parsing, Summa-rization, and Generation of Natural Language Texts.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Toronto.Robert E. Mercer and Chrysanne Di Marco.
2003.
TheImportance of Fine-grained Cue Phrases in ScientificCitations.
In AI?2003, Proceedings of the 16th Confer-ence of the CSCSI/SCEIO, 550?556.
Edmonton, Al-berta, 11?13 June 2003.Robert E. Mercer, Chrysanne Di Marco, and FrederickKroon.
2004.
The Frequency of Hedging Cues in Cita-tion Contexts in Scientific Writing.
Submitted to Con-ference of the Canadian Society for the ComputationalStudies of Intelligence (CSCSI 2004).M.J.
Moravscik and P. Murugesan.
1975.
Some Resultson the Function and Quality of Citations.
Social Stud-ies of Science, 5:86?92.Greg Myers.
1991.
Writing Biology.
University of Wis-consin Press.B.C.
Peritz.
1983.
A Classification of Citation Roles forthe Social Sciences and Related Fields.
Scientomet-rics, 5:303?312.H.
Small.
1978.
Cited Documents as Concept Symbols.Social Studies of Science, 8(3):327?340.I.
Spiegel-Ro?sing.
1977.
Science Studies: Bibliometricand Content Analysis.
Social Studies of Science, 7:97?113.James Thomas, David Milward, Christos Ouzounis,Stephen Pulman, and Mark Carroll.
2000.
AutomaticExtraction of Protein Interactions from Scientific Ab-stracts.
In Proceedings of the 5th Pacific Symposiumon Biocomputing (PSB 2000), 538-549.M.
Weinstock.
1971.
Citation Indexes.
In Encyclopae-dia of Library and Information Science, 5:16?40.
Mar-cel Dekkar, New York.W.
John Wilbur.
2002.
A Thematic Analysis of the AIDSLiterature.
In Proceedings of the 7th Pacific Sympo-sium on Biocomputing (PSB 2004), 386-397.W.J.
Wilbur and L. Coffee.
1994.
The Effectiveness ofDocument Neighboring in Search Enhancement.
In-formation Processing Management, 30:253?266.
