Project NoteA Corpus-based Lexical resource of German IdiomsG.
Neumann, C. Fellbaum, A. Geyken, A. Herold, C.H?mmer, F. K?rner, U. Kramer, K. Krell, A. Sokirko, D.Stantcheva, E. StathiProject: ?Collocations in the German Language?,Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and HumanitiesJ?gerstra?e 22/23Germany, 10117 Berlingneumann@bbaw.deAbstractIn this paper, we present the design of alexical resource focusing on German verbphrase idioms.
The entry for a given idiomcombines appropriate corpus examples withrich linguistic and lexicographic annotations,giving the user access to linguistic informationcoupled with the appropriate attested data andlaying the groundwork for empirical,reproducible research.1 IntroductionThe project "Collocations in the GermanLanguage", located at the Berlin-BrandenburgAcademy of Sciences, studies the properties ofverb phrase idioms such as jmdm.
einen B?renaufbinden (lit.
?tie a bear onto sb.
's back,?
i.e.
?tella big lie?)
and einen Bock schiessen (lit.
?shoot abuck,?
i.e.
?commit a grave error?
).Idioms are sometimes referred to informally as"long words" and are treated as fixed strings withno internal structure.
While some idioms (like themuch-discussed English example kick the bucket)have semantically opaque components and do notundergo syntactic or lexical alternations, others(like bury the hatchet) behave more like freelycomposed VP.Nunberg, Sag, and Wasow (1994) andDobrovolskij (1999) are among the linguists whohave observed a correlation between an idiom'sfixedness and its semantic opacity: The more fixedan idiom, the more semantically opaque it can be.But this correlation is not always straightforward,and to understand the way speakers representidioms in their internal grammars we mustinvestigate the full range of behavior.
For example,the German equivalent of kick the bucket is lit.
?bite into the grass?
(ins Gras beissen).
While Gras(just like ?bucket?)
does not seem to be mappableonto the concept, it can be modified with anadjective, as our corpus example ?bit the Texangrass?
shows.
In fact, the adjective must beinterpreted as having scope over the entire VP, notjust the NP, as the phrase refers to someone dyingin Texas.Lexical substitution and variability of theidiom?s components in general can show that anelement is assigned a particular interpretation, as inthe (diachronically differentiated) variants sich aufdie Str?mpfe machen and sich auf die Sockenmachen (lit.
?make oneself on the stockings/socks?,i.e.
?to get going or get moving?).
Here, thesubstitution of a near-synonym indicates thatspeakers assign some meaning to the noun, mostlikely the footwear that is associated with travel onfoot.
But speakers make substitutions withoutnecessarily assigning a meaning to the constituentsof the idiom.Current lexicographic and linguistic treatment ofVP idioms does not attempt to reflect the full rangeof the idioms' properties or classify themaccordingly.
Our goal is to give a data-oriented,comprehensive linguistic account of a broadspectrum of German idioms.The empirical basis for our work is the corpus ofthe Digitales W?rterbuch der deutschen Sprache(DWDS), a corpus of almost 1 billion words fromtexts drawn from a variety of genres and coveringthe entire 20th century.We are creating a resource that combinesfeatures of a dictionary, a grammar of idioms, anda corpus.
Central to our methodology are two maincomponents: an electronic knowledge base createdvia structured annotations, and a correspondingsub-corpus of examples (example corpora) for eachentry.2 The Example CorporaOur lexicon combines subtle linguisticannotations with specific corpus data.For each target idiom, a sub-corpus, containingappropriate examples drawn from the 1-billion-word-corpus, is created.
Following theidentification of a target idiom, corpus queries arewritten to generate the candidate set of relevantcorpus data, taking advantage of a search enginedeveloped in-house.
The queries include specificlexical and morphological elements as well asBoolean operators.
The resultant candidateexample corpus, in XML/TEI format, is manuallyinspected for false positives, i.e.
strings which arenot instances of the idiom but rather accidentalproducts of the query.The number of true positives gives an idea of thefrequency of idioms in the language ?
informationthat was not easy to gather until now.
For example,the idiom jmdn.
zur Minna machen (lit.
?make sb.
aMinna,?, i.e.
?to publicly reprimand sb.?)
is attestedonly 41 times, while ein Auge auf etw.
haben (lit.
?to keep an eye on sth.?)
yields 560 examples.To ensure reproducibility of result sets,examples are marked with tags identifying theircorpus query and the particular corpus version.Thus we have the possibility of comparisonbetween the manually inspected example corporaand the dynamically increasing DWDS-Corpus.3 The Annotation TemplateWe created a template for linguistic andlexicographic annotation, a kind of digitalquestionnaire.
It serves as both input and outputinterface and links the annotated example corporawith the idiom knowledge base.
The data entryinterface supports a structured entry created by thelinguists/lexicographers, who record variousproperties of the idioms as evidenced by theexamples.The template design reflects the informationwhich is considered relevant in the discussion ofidioms from a lexicographic and linguistic point ofview, focusing on the interplay between normalusage and flexibility.
The template consists of thefollowing major parts:The first part contains information which istypically found in dictionaries.
This includes thecitation form of the idiom, together with adefinition.
A difference from standard dictionariesis the link to the data.
We record the first and lastoccurrence in the corpus and in this way weindicate the time span of corpus examples of theidiom during the 20th century.
The citation form isderived on the basis of the corpus evidenceaccording to statistical significance (cf.
examplebelow).
The typical usages lead to the formulationof the citation form, which is linked to some ofthem.
In addition, there is information on alternateforms (e.g.
different aspectual varieties of anidiom, transitive vs. intransitive uses, etc.)
with areference to the corresponding entry.The second part is the syntactic structure of theidiom, in particular the structure of the VPincluding the subject.
We show dependenciesbetween constituents on three levels (two phraselevels and a terminal level), using the categoryvariables of a German tag set1.
At the terminallevel we fill in the lexical material whichcorresponds to the citation form.
Finally, we notethe status of each component in the idiomaccording to degree of fixedness (externalargument, core component, obligatory, optional,etc.
).This ?tree?
structure automatically creates a tablewhich records the morphosyntactic properties ofidiom components.
Since idioms are considered astypically restricted according to morphosyntacticproperties (e.g., noun complements may occur onlyin the singular or only in the plural), we explore towhich extent this is supported by the data.On the basis of these morphosyntacticregularities, we derive the citation form.
This isconsidered to be the normal (or typical) form,according to frequency of usage.
We are alsointerested in non-typical or ?deviant?
usages.
Theterm should be understood not in the sense of?abnormal?
or ?ungrammatical?, but as infrequentor not statistically significant (sometimesidiosyncratic, sometimes more widespread), yetimportant for insight into the linguistic propertiesof an idiom.Idioms are also subject to restrictions concerningthe passivization of the nominal components, theirpronominalization, relativization, and othersyntactic processes sometimes called?transformations?.
If we take the examplementioned earlier, one would not expect toencounter *das Gras, in das er gebissen hat(relativization), *das Gras wurde gebissen(passivization), etc.
In reality, thesetransformations can be observed in most cases.
Werecord them in a separate table and link everytransformation type to the correspondingoccurrences in the example corpora.The template also offers the possibility toinclude semantic as well as historical information,if diachronic changes or noteworthy developmentscan be observed in the corpus data.By way of illustration, let us consider anexample, focusing attention on variability.
In1 STTS (Stuttgart-T?bingen Tagset)Modern German the noun Bockshorn2 isconsidered to be a phraseologically bound word,i.e.
it does not occur in isolation, but only in afixed expression3.
Idioms with phraseologicallybound words are said to display the highest degreeof fixedness and absence of flexibility.
We want totest this hypothesis against corpus data.The phraseological dictionary ?Duden (Vol.
11)?gives s.v.
Bockshorn the citation form jmd.
l?sstsich nicht ins Bockshorn jagen, which is roughlyequivalent to English ?refuse to allow oneself to beintimidated?.
The ?W?rterbuch der deutschenGegenwartssprache?
(WDG) records also thetransitive alternation jmdn.
ins Bockshorn jagen,which might be translated as ?to put the wind upsb.
?The following table shows the results whichwere given by three different queries to the corpusfor this idiom:Query Number of hitsin the corpusBockshorn 285*horn && jagen &&!
@Bockshorn27((Bockshorn* && !
@Bockshorn)|| *bockshorn)35Total 347Table 1: Queries and hits for Bockshorn in theDWDS-CorpusAs the table shows, the queries leave open thepossibility of finding variation at every slot: Theposition of the verb is left unspecified in the firstquery.
In the second query we try to find instanceswhere the first component of the noun (Bock-)might be substituted by another noun4, while thethird query should deliver instances of compoundswith Bockshorn (cf.
the form Bockshornklee inTable 2 below).2 The etymology of the word is obscure.
R?hrich(2001) offers nine etymologies for the idiom accordingto different possible sources of the noun.
He reaches noconclusion.
Synchronically, the word is identical to thename of a low-growing plant (fenugreek) with toughwiry stems, also called Bockshornklee.
But it can alsoliterally denote the horn of a goat (Bock ?male goat?
andHorn ?horn?
).3 Moon (1998) terms these ?cranberry?
collocations.Actually, this particular word (Bockshorn) occursoutside a fixed expression, but it occurs only in highlytechnical contexts (cf.
footnote 5 below).4 The opposite case, i.e.
looking for cases with thecomponent stable (-horn), gave no results.Linguistic analysis of the data led to theformulation of two alternate citation forms andconsequently two entries for the idiom:1) jmd.
l?sst sich nicht ins Bockshorn jagen(192 hits)2) jmd.
jagt jmdn.
ins Bockshorn (44 hits).5The first is a form with the so-called ?lassen-passive?.
It is much more frequent than thetransitive form; actually it is the typical formassociated with Bockshorn.
The results show aremarkable uniformity of the idiom components, asthe following table shows:Total  192Bockshorn 182Boxhorn 8Bockshornklee 1NounHasenhorn 1ins 191Prepositionin6 1jagen 191Infinitivejache7 1Verb lassen 192Overt negation (differentpossibilities)141Irrealis 15NegationAffirmation 36Table 2: Distribution of components for the ?lassen-passive?
alternantThe forms which are mentioned first in Table 2(bold face) are seen as the ?normal?
components inthe sense of statistical significance, the other formsare considered as ?deviations?
from the norm.These include the substitution of components.
Cf.the noun: The form Boxhorn is phonologicallyidentically to Bockshorn; perhaps its usagerepresents the need to motivate the original noun.8The substitution of Bockshornklee can beexplained with reference to the context: This nounappears earlier in the text and triggers the use ofthe idiom, a not unusual phenomenon in journalesetexts.
Finally, Hasenhorn shows the typical patternof noun substitution in idioms in German, i.e.
thesubstitution of one part of a compound nountypically by a synonym or a word belonging to thesame lexical field (Hase- ?rabbit?
for Bock-?buck?).
Again, this substitution is triggered by thetopic of the text.
Note that this substitution occurs5 111 hits were non-idiomatic uses of the noun,especially in popular medicine and compounds.6 Typing error7 Dialectal form for jagen.8 An alternative interpretation relates the formBoxhorn to 15th century words relating to God (cf.R?hrich 2001).even though the speaker cannot assign a meaningto the lexeme Bockshorn (cf.
Introduction).Now consider the figures for the transitivealternant jmd.
jagt jmdn.
ins Bockshorn:Total  44Bockshorn 41Boxhorn 1Bockhorn 1NounGruselhorn 1ins 43Prepositionin?s 1jagen 42einjagen 1Verbf?hren 1Table 3: Distribution of components for the transitivealternantThe citation form given is derived on the basis ofthese quantities, which distinguish normal usagefrom ?deviant?
usages.
Beside the form Boxhorn(cf.
above) Bockhorn occurs once.9 Gruselhorn(Grusel- ?scary?)
is a nonce creation for theexpression of emphasis since it combines themeaning of the idiom and the meaning of ?to scaresb.
?As for the verb, it is substituted twice.
The verbf?hren ?to lead?
fulfils the same semantic functionas jagen in this idiom, i.e.
the expression ofcausativity.
The difference is that f?hren isunmarked: In German it is often used as a functionverb to express causativity (to cause a change ofstate for sb.).
The substitution of einjagen on theother hand may be due to its occurrence in thenear-synonymous expression (jmdm.
)Angst/Schrecken einjagen ?to scare sb.
?To sum up, if variability correlates withflexibility (or fixedness) of an idiom, then thesefigures lead to the conclusion that idioms withphraseologically bound forms are typically fixed.But contrary to claims in the literature that there isno variability at all, corpus evidence shows thatthere is some patterned variability.
The interestingquestion is whether it is also predictable.Finally, it should be noted that the postulation oftwo entries (the lassen-Passive and the transitive/causative) are necessary for two reasons.
Firstly,the two entries differ in syntactic structure(argument structure, negation, etc.).
Thisdifference automatically forces us to establishseparate entries, because the whole design of thetemplate is based on syntactic structure.
Thismeans that the subsequent sections (morpho-9 It could be an error or just omission of theconnecting -s-.syntactic properties and variations or deviationsfrom the citation form) are created automaticallyon the basis of the syntactic structure of the idiom.Of course, they have to be filled in manually, buttheir design is uniform for all idioms whichensures comparability.Secondly, the lassen-Passive (plus negation andreflexivity) as a typical instance of this idiom is nota regular (or necessary) correlate of the transitiveform, as a pure passive form would be.
Moreover,the two entries differ pragmatically.4  The Knowledge BaseThe information recorded in the template isstored in a MySQL database, which constitutes theactual knowledge base for German idioms.
Thisknowledge base can be queried in various differentways.
In particular, it is possible to query forsyntactical structures of idioms and for all kinds ofvariation from the citation form found in theexample corpus.We developed a label language that permits aprecise, automatic assignment of examples to mostof the properties recorded in the template.
Thus thelexicographers?
decisions preserve a high degree oftransparency.5 Use of ResourceThe contents of the knowledge base will bemade available via the Internet.
The template, in itsfunction as a user interface, is browser-based anddirectly accesses the database.Users can search for specific idioms (orsubstrings thereof), examine their linguisticproperties, and find the appropriate corpusexamples.This automatic linking of examples to thecorpora makes the analysis transparent in a waythat is not possible in conventional dictionaries.6  ConclusionIn sum, our resource combines properties of adictionary and a grammar with a corpus.
A learneror general user can look up a specific idiom andstudy its properties.
A linguist can search forspecific linguistic structures (passives, clefts, etc.
)and find those idioms that show the features inquestion.
Other users will no doubt find othermodes of application.7 AcknowledgementsThis work is supported by the Alexander vonHumboldt Foundation?s Zukunftsinvestitions-programm through the Wolfgang Paul-Preis.5ReferencesDobrovol'skij, Dmitrij.
1999.
?Habentransformationelle Defekte der Idiomstruktursemantische Ursachen??
In: Fernandez-Bravo,Nicole, Irmtraud Behr und Claire Rozier (eds.
)1999: Phraseme und typisierte Rede(=Eurogermanistik 14).
T?bingen: Stauffenburg,25-37.Dobrovol'skij, Dmitrij.
2002.
?Zum syntaktischenVerhalten deutscher Idiome (am Beispiel derPassivtransformation)?
In: Wiesinger, Peter (ed.
)2002: Akten des X. InternationalenGermanistenkongresses Wien 2000.
"Zeitenwende- Die Germanistik auf dem Weg vom 20. ins 21.Jahrhundert".
Jahrbuch f?r InternationaleGermanistik.
Reihe A, Kongressberichte Bd.
54,Band 2, Entwicklungstendenzen der deutschenGegenwartssprache; Lexikologie undLexikographie.
Bern et al: Peter Lang, 379-384.Duden, Redewendungen: W?rterbuch derdeutschen Idiomatik.
2002.
Hrsg.
von derDudenredaktion.
[Red.
Bearb.
: Brigitte Alsleben;Werner Scholze-Stubenrecht].
- 2., neu bearb.
undaktualisierte Aufl.. Mannheim et al: Dudenverlag.Fellbaum, Christiane, Undine Kramer und DianaStantcheva.
2004.
?Eins, einen, eine und etwas indeutschen VP-Idiomen?
In: Steyer, Kathrin (ed.
)2004: Wortverbindungen - mehr oder weniger fest.Jahrbuch des Instituts f?r Deutsche Sprache 2003.Berlin, New York: Walter de Gruyter, 167-193.Fleischer, Wolfgang.
1997.
Phraseologie derdeutschen Gegenwartssprache.
2., durchgeseheneund erg?nzte Auflage.
T?bingen: Max Niemeyer.Moon, Rosamund.
1998.
?Frequencies and Formsof Phrasal Lexemes in English?.
In: Cowie, A.
P.(ed.)
1998.
Phraseology: Theory, Analysis,Applications.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 79-100.Nunberg, Geoffrey; Ivan A.
Sag und ThomasWasow.
1994.
?Idioms?
Language 70/3, 491-538.R?hrich, Lutz.
2001.
Das gro?e Lexikon dersprichw?rtlichen Redensarten [ElektronischeRessource].
Darmstadt: WissenschaftlicheBuchgesellschaft.W?rterbuch der deutschen Gegenwartssprache.1967-1977.
Akademie der Wissenschaften derDDR, Zentralinstitut f?r Sprachwissenschaft.
Hrsg.von Ruth Klappenbach und Wolfgang Steinitz.Berlin: Akademie-Verlag.Relevant web pages:http://www.dwds.dehttp://www.bbaw.de/forschung/kollokationen/
