Speech Graffiti habitability: What do users really say?Stefanie Tomko and Roni RosenfeldLanguage Technologies Institute, School of Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon University5000 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh PA 15213{stef, roni}@cs.cmu.eduAbstractThe Speech Graffiti interface is designed to bea portable, transparent interface for spokenlanguage interaction with simple machinesand information servers.
Because it is a subsetlanguage, users must learn and adhere to theconstraints of the language.
We conducted auser study to determine habitability and foundthat more than 80% of utterances were SpeechGraffiti-grammatical, suggesting that the lan-guage is acceptably learnable and usable formost users.
We also analyzed deviations fromgrammaticality and found that natural lan-guage input accounted for the most deviationsfrom Speech Graffiti.
The results will suggestchanges to the interface and can also informdesign choices in other speech interfaces.1 IntroductionSpeech Graffiti (a.k.a.
the Universal Speech Interfaceproject) is an attempt to create a standardized, speech-based interface for interacting with simple machines andinformation servers.
Such standardization offers severalbenefits, including domain portability, lower speechrecognition error rates and increased system transpar-ency for users (Rosenfeld et al, 2001).
This is realizedvia a subset language that must be learned and remem-bered by users.This study was designed to assess habitability bymeasuring Speech Graffiti-grammaticality: how oftendo users actually speak within the subset grammar wheninteracting with a Speech Graffiti system?
A high levelof grammaticality would suggest that the language isreasonably habitable, while low grammaticality wouldindicate that the language design requires substantialchanges.1.1 Speech Graffiti basicsSpeech Graffiti interfaces comprise a small set of stan-dard rules and keywords that can be used in all SpeechGraffiti applications.
The rules are principles governingthe regularities in the interaction, such as ?input is al-ways provided in phrases with the syntax ?slot isvalue??
and ?the system will tersely paraphrase what-ever part of the input it understood.?
The keywords aredesigned to provide regular mechanisms for performinginteraction universals such as help, orientation, naviga-tion and error correction.By standardizing user input, Speech Graffiti aims toreduce the negative effects of variability on systemcomplexity and recognition performance.
At the sametime, we hope that introducing a universal structure thatis intended to be used with many different applicationswill mitigate any negative effects that might be other-wise associated with learning an application-specificcommand language.1.2 Related workAlthough several studies have previously explored theusage of constrained or subset languages (for example,Hendler & Michaelis, 1983; Guindon & Shuldberg,1987; Ringle & Halstead-Nussloch, 1989; Sidner &Forlines, 2002), they have generally been concernedwith performance effects such as task completion rates.Sidner & Forlines (2002) reported a ?correct utterance?rate of approximately 60-80% for their user studies,although this was not a main focus of their work.
Whilewe understand the focus on such performance measures,we believe that it is also important to understand howhabitable the constrained language is for users, in whatways users deviate from it, and what impact habitabilityhas on user satisfaction.2 MethodOur data was generated from a user study in which par-ticipants were asked to complete tasks using both aSpeech Graffiti interface to a telephone-based movieinformation system (MovieLine) and a natural languageinterface to the same data.
Tasks were designed to havethe participants explore a variety of the functions of thesystems (e.g.
?list what?s playing at the Squirrel HillTheater?
and ?find out & write down what the ratingsare for the movies showing at the Oaks Theater?
).After interacting with each system, each participantcompleted a user satisfaction questionnaire rating 34subjective-response items on a 7-point Likert scale.
Thisquestionnaire was based on the Subjective AssessmentFigure 1.
Grammaticality and user satis-faction for Speech Graffiti MovieLine.of Speech System Interfaces (SASSI) project (Hone &Graham, 2001) and included statements such as ?I al-ways knew what to say to the system?
and ?the systemmakes few errors.?
An overall user satisfaction ratingwas calculated for each user by averaging that user?sscores for each of the 34 response items.
Users werealso asked a few comparison questions, including sys-tem preference.
In this analysis we were only concernedwith results from the Speech Graffiti MovieLineinteractions and not the natural language MovieLineinteractions (see Tomko & Rosenfeld, 2004).
Systempresentation order was balanced and had no significanteffect on grammaticality measures.2.1 ParticipantsTwenty-three participants (12 female, 11 male) accessedthe systems via telephone in our lab.
Most were under-graduate students from Carnegie Mellon University andall were native speakers of American English.
We alsoasked users whether they considered themselves ?com-puter science or engineering people?
(CSE) and howoften they did computer programming; the distributionsof these categories were roughly equal.2.2 TrainingThe Speech Graffiti approach requires users to learn thesystem prior to using it via a brief tutorial session.
15participants received unsupervised Speech Graffiti train-ing consisting of a self-directed, web-based tutorial thatpresented sample dialog excerpts (in text) and proposedexample tasks to the user.
The other eight participantsreceived supervised Speech Graffiti training.
This train-ing used the same web-based foundation as the unsu-pervised version, but participants were encouraged toask the experimenter questions if they were unsure ofanything during the training session.Both supervised and unsupervised training sessionswere balanced between web-based tutorials that usedexamples from the MovieLine and from a FlightLinesystem that provided simulated flight arrival, departure,and gate information.
This enabled us to make an initialassessment of the effects of in-domain training.2.3 AnalysisThe user study generated 4062 Speech Graffiti Movie-Line utterances, where an utterance is defined as onechunk of speech input sent to our Sphinx II speech rec-ognizer (Huang et al, 1993).
We removed all utterancescontaining non-task-related or unintelligible speech, orexcessive noise or feed, resulting in a cleaned set of3626 utterances (89% of the total).
We defined an utter-ance to be grammatical if the Phoenix parser (Ward,1990) used by the system returns a complete parse withno extraneous words.3 Results82% (2987) of the utterances from the cleaned set werefully Speech Graffiti-grammatical.
For individual users,grammaticality ranged from 41.1% to 98.6%, with amean of 80.5% and a median of 87.4%.
These averagesare quite high, indicating that most users were able tolearn and use Speech Graffiti reasonably well.The lowest individual grammaticality scores be-longed to four of the six participants who preferred thenatural language MovieLine interface to the SpeechGraffiti one, which suggests that proficiency with thelanguage is very important for its acceptance.
Indeed,we found a moderate, significant correlation betweengrammaticality and user satisfaction, as shown in Fig.
1(r = 0.60, p < 0.01).
We found no similar correlation forthe natural language interface, using a strict definitionof grammaticality.Users?
grammaticality tended to increase over time.For each subject, we compared the grammaticality ofutterances from the first half of their session with that ofutterances in the second half.
All but four participantsincreased their grammaticality in the second half of theirSpeech Graffiti session, with an average relative im-provement of 12.4%.
A REML analysis showed thisdifference to be significant, F = 7.54, p < 0.02.
Only oneof the users who exhibited a decrease in grammaticalityover time was from the group that preferred the naturallanguage interface.
However, although members of thatthat group did tend to increase their grammaticality laterin their interactions, none of their second-half gram-maticality scores were above 80%.Summary by training and system preference.
Nosignificant effects on Speech Graffiti-grammaticalitywere found due to differences in CSE background, pro-gramming experience, training supervision or trainingdomain.
This last point suggests that it may not be nec-essary to design in-domain Speech Graffiti tutorials;0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%endpo intplural + optionssubject-verb agreementmissing is/arevalue + optionstime syntaxmore syntaxdisfluencyslo t-value mismatchvalue onlykeyword problemout-o f-vocabulary wordslot onlygeneral syntaxportion of all ungrammaticalitiesFigure 2.
Distribution of ungrammaticalutterances by type.instead, a single training application could be devel-oped.
The six users who preferred the natural languageMovieLine generated 45.4% of the ungrammaticalities,further supporting the idea of language proficiency as amajor factor for system acceptance.3.1 Deviations from grammarTo help determine how users can be encouraged tospeak within the grammar, we analyzed the ways inwhich they deviated from it in this experiment.
Weidentified 14 general types of deviations from the gram-mar; Fig.
2 shows the distribution of each type.
Fourtrivial deviation types (lighter bars in Fig.
2) thatresulted from unintentional holes in our grammar cover-age comprised about 20% of the ungrammaticalities.When these trivial deviations are counted as grammati-cal, mean grammaticality rises to 85.5% and the medianto 91.3%.
However, we have not removed the trivialungrammaticalities from our overall analysis since theyare likely to have resulted in errors that may have af-fected user satisfaction.
Each of the ten other deviationtypes is discussed in further detail in the sections below.General natural language syntax, 20.6%: SpeechGraffiti requires input to have a slot is value phrase syn-tax for specifying and querying information.
The mostcommon type of deviation in the Speech Graffiti utter-ances involved a natural language (NL) deviation fromthis standard phrase syntax.
For example, a correctlyconstructed Speech Graffiti query to find movie times ata theater might be theater is Galleria, title is Sweet HomeAlabama, what are the show times?
For errors in this cate-gory, users would instead make more NL-style queries,like when is Austin Powers playing at Showcase West?Slot only, 14.6%: In these cases, users stated a slotname without an accompanying value or query words.For example, a user might attempt to ask about a slotwithout using what, as in title is Abandon, show times.
Inabout a third of slot-only instances, the ungrammaticalinput appeared to be an artifact of the options function,which lists slots that users can talk about at any givenpoint; users would just repeat back a slot name withoutadding a value, confirming Brennan?s (1996) findings oflexical entrainment.Out-of-vocabulary word, 14.0%: These were oftenmovie titles that were not included in the database orsynonyms for Speech Graffiti-grammatical concepts(e.g.
category instead of genre).Keyword problem, 8.1%: Participants used a key-word that was not part of the system (e.g.
clear) or theyused an existing keyword incorrectly.Value only, 6.7%: Users specified a value (e.g.comedy) without an accompanying slot name.Slot-value mismatch, 5.1%: Users paired slots andvalues that did not belong together.
This often occurredwhen participants were working on tasks involving lo-cating movies in a certain neighborhood.
For instance,instead of stating area is Monroeville, users would saytheater is Monroeville.
Since the input is actually in thecorrect slot is value format, this type of ungrammaticalitycould perhaps be considered more of a disfluency than atrue habitability problem.Disfluency, 4.3%: This category includes utteranceswhere the parser failed because of disfluent speech,usually repeated words.
81% of the utterances in thiscategory were indeed grammatical when stripped oftheir disfluencies, but we prefer to leave this category asa component of the non-trivial deviations in order toaccount for the unpredictable disfluencies that will al-ways occur in interactions.More syntax, 4.0%: This is are a special case of akeyword problem in which participants misused thekeyword more by pairing it with a slot name (e.g.
theater,more) rather than using it to navigate through a list.Time syntax, 1.3%: In this special case of naturallanguage syntax ungrammaticality, users created timequeries that were initially well-formed but which hadtime modifiers appended to the end, as in what are showtimes after seven o?clock?Value + options, 1.1%: In grammatical usage, thekeyword options can be used either independently (to geta list of all available slots) or paired with a slot (to get alist of all appropriate values for that slot).
In a fewcases, users instead used options with a value, as in Squir-rel Hill options.4 DiscussionWe have shown a significant correlation betweengrammaticality and user satisfaction for the SpeechGraffiti system.
Grammaticality scores were generallyhigh and tended to increase over time, demonstratingthat the system is acceptably habitable.Based on the data shown in Fig.1, it appears that80% is a good target for Speech Graffiti grammaticality.Nearly all participants with grammaticality scores over80% gave positive (i.e.
> 4) user satisfaction scores, andmore than half of our users achieved this level.
Fur-thermore, users with grammaticality above 80% com-pleted an average of 6.9 tasks, while users withgrammaticality below 80% completed an average ofonly 3.5 tasks.
A fundamental question for our futurework is ?what can we do to help everyone speak withinthe bounds of the system at the 80% level?
?Several possible refinements are immediately appar-ent beyond fixing our trivial grammar problems.
Systemresponses to options should be reworked to reduce incor-rect lexical entrainment and alleviate slot-only devia-tions.
The out-of-vocabulary instances can be analyzedto decide whether certain synonyms should be added tothe current system, although this will generate only do-main-specific improvements.
Many ungrammaticalitytypes can also be addressed through refinements toSpeech Graffiti?s help and tutorial functions.Addressing the general NL syntax category posesthe biggest problem.
Although it is responsible for thelargest portion of ungrammaticalities, simply changingthe grammar to accommodate these variations wouldlikely lead to increased system complexity.
A main con-cern of our work is domain portability, and SpeechGraffiti?s standard structure currently allows for fairlyrapid creation of new interfaces (Toth et al, 2002).
Anynatural language expansion of Speech Graffiti grammarwill have to be balanced with the ability to port such agrammar to all domains.
We are currently analyzing theungrammatical utterances in this and the time syntaxcategories to determine whether any Speech Graffiti-consistent modifications could be made to the interface.However, most of the improvement in this area willlikely have to be generated via better help and training.An important additional finding from this work isthe scope of general NL syntax deviations.
Consideringitems like movie and theater names as equivalence classmembers, the NL utterances used by participants in theSpeech Graffiti system reduced to 94 patterns.
In com-parison, the NL utterances used by participants in thenatural language MovieLine reduced to about 580 pat-terns.
One of the main differences between the NL pat-terns in the two systems was the lack of conversationalphrases like ?can you give me??
and ?I would like tohear about??
in the Speech Graffiti system.
Thus theknowledge that they are interacting with a restrictedlanguage system seems to be enough to make usersspeak more simply, matching results from Ringle &Halstead-Nussloch (1989).Although many of our ungrammaticality types mayappear to be specific to Speech Graffiti, they reinforcelessons applicable to most speech interfaces.
The slot-only issue demonstrates that lexical entrainment truly isa factor in spoken language interfaces and its effectsshould not be underestimated.
Out-of-vocabulary wordsare a persistent problem, and keywords should be cho-sen with care to ensure that they are task-appropriateand that their functions are as intuitive as possible.Overall, this study has provided us with a targetlevel for Speech Graffiti-grammaticality, suggestedchanges to the language and provided insight aboutwhat aspects of the system might need greater supportthrough help and tutorial functions.
We plan to imple-ment changes based on these results and re-evaluate thesystem through further user testing.ReferencesBrennan, S.E.
1996.
Lexical entrainment in spontaneousdialog.
In Proceedings of the International Sympo-sium on Spoken Dialogue, pp.
41-44.Guindon, R. & Shuldberg, K. 1987.
Grammatical andungrammatical structures in user-adviser dialogues:evidence for sufficiency of restricted languages innatural language interfaces to advisory systems.
InProc.
of the Annual Meeting of the ACL, pp.
41-44.Hendler, J.
A.
& Michaelis, P. R. 1983.
The Effects ofLimited Grammar On Interactive Natural Language.In Proceedings of CHI, pp.
190-192.Hone, K. & Graham, R. 2001.
Subjective Assessment ofSpeech-System Interface Usability.
In Proceedings ofEurospeech, Aalborg, Denmark.Huang, X., Alleva, F., Hon, H.W., Hwang, M.Y., Lee,K.F.
& Rosenfeld, R. 1993.
The Sphinx-II SpeechRecognition System: An Overview.
Computer,Speech and Language, 7(2):137-148.Ringle, M.D.
& Halstead-Nussloch, R. 1989.
Shapinguser input: a strategy for natural language design.
In-teracting with Computers 1(3):227-244Rosenfeld, R., Olsen, D. & Rudnicky, A.
2001.
Univer-sal Speech Interfaces.
Interactions, 8(6):34-44.Sidner, C. & Forlines, C. 2002.
Subset Languages forConversing with Collaborative Interface Agents.
InProc.
of ICSLP, Denver CO, pp.
281-284.Tomko, S. & Rosenfeld, R. 2004.
Speech Graffiti vs.Natural Language: Assessing the User Experience.To be published in Proc.
of HLT/NAACL.Toth, A., Harris, T., Sanders, J., Shriver, S. & Rosen-feld, R. 2002.
Towards Every-Citizen's Speech Inter-face: An Application Generator for Speech Interfacesto Databases.
In Proc.
of  ICSLP, Denver, CO.Ward, W. 1990.
The CMU Air Travel Information Ser-vice: Understanding Spontaneous Speech.
In Proc.
ofthe DARPA Speech and Language Workshop.
