For foreigners kanji are very difficult tolearn, to memorize, to read and to write.
Tomake things worse, most teaching material onAlthough nowadays kanji are very oftenwritten with a word processor, it is still verythe world.
In Japanese it is described as kanjikanamajiri bun (  ), mean-ing that Japanese uses the originally Chinesecharacters?kanji?together with kana, i.e.hiragana and katakana, which are cursive orshortened versions of former kanji and whichrepresent only the sounds of syllables.about 900 kanji (Monbush?
1958).
Calligra-phers stress, that these proposals often don?tshow the mainly used character forms orstroke orders (Emori 2003: 8?16).3 Problem: Learning to Read and toWrite KanjiThe modern Japanese writing system is con-sidered as one of the most complex ones ininstructions on the stroke order and the kanjiforms, that should be taught at school forBuilding a Graphetic DictioCharacter Look Up Based on Bruthe Display of KaUlrich ApelNational Institute of InformaticsHitotsubashi 2-1-2 Chiyoda-kuTokyo 101-8430Japanulrich_apel@t-online.deAbstractReading and writing Japanese isn?t easy forJapanese and foreigners alike.
While Japa-nese learn these skills at school, foreignersshould be helped by good teaching materialand dictionaries.Kanji lexica have to be very different fromother dictionaries.
Unfortunately existinglexica normally expect that the users alreadyhave a lot of information on a character tolook it up?the character?s stroke count, itsradical or its pronunciation.
Beginners nor-mally don?t have such information.This project creates data to allow for eas-ier and more flexible look up of Japanesecharacters and to build better teaching mate-rial.
It develops different approaches to makeuse of this data.1 Introduction: Kanji as MainObstacle for Learning Japanesenary for Japanese Kanji?sh Strokes or Stroke Groups, andnji as Path DataJulien QuintNational Institute of InformaticsHitotsubashi 2-1-2 Chiyoda-kuTokyo 101-8430Japanquint@nii.ac.jpkanji contains too little information on howkanji are actually written.
This concerns forexample correct stroke order, stroke direc-tions, possible glyph variations or kanji com-ponents.2 History of Kanji and Variations inKanji FormsChinese characters were developed in thesecond millennium before Christ.
Kanji wereintroduced in Japan in the fourth century AD.There are kanji dictionaries with tens ofthousands of kanji, but in Japan there werenever more than about 6,000 in actual use.Developments after WW II lead to a sepa-ration of kanji forms in Japan, China, Taiwanand Korea.
Japan and even more mainlandChina introduced shortened forms of kanji,while e.g.
Taiwan uses the traditional kanji.The Japanese Ministry for Education se-lected a number of around 2000 kanji for offi-cial and general public use.
It also publishedimportant to be able to write them by handtoo.For learners of Japanese writing kanji byhand is still one of the best ways to memorizethem.
To recognize Japanese handwriting onehas to identify the original strokes which areoften joined, seeming hardly to be individualstrokes.
On computer screens strokes are alsooften almost unrecognizable.Most lexica don?t give information con-cerning the stroke order, and if they do, theyonly do so for a small number of characters.Normal kanji lexica contain little material onstroke forms and their variations in kanjicomponents.
Ordinary paper lexica are of lit-tle help if one is able to recognize only partsof a kanji.
One has to recognize the wholekanji in order to be able to look it up.4 Kanji Strokes, Stroke Groups andPath DataIn this project, kanji are considered asgraphic information, hence, they are ana-lysed in different ways.
This new data iscombined with existing data.A very abstract and basic way to analysekanji consists in a graphetic approach whichleads to the recognition of graphemes.Graphemes are the smallest meaning distin-guishing units.
In the case of kanji this can bestroke length (as in  and  ), angle of thestroke (as in  ,  and  ), stroke direction(as in   and  ), or ending of a stroke (as inand  ).A more concrete analysis which also takesthe act of writing into account would usestrokes as basic units of kanji.
A stroke is agraphical element that can be drawn e.g.
witha brush or a pencil without interruptions.Most kanji consist of more than one stroke.Our analysis of strokes uses 25 basicforms of brush strokes for kanji.
It considersstroke direction, bending of the strokes,stroke endings (blunt or with a short bend)and so on.
The stroke forms are numberedand every stroke of a kanji is assigned withthe corresponding number of its stroke form.Strokes can be grouped together not onlyto build full kanji but also to combine smallerunits which frequently occur in kanji.
We callthese smaller units grapheme elements.
Manykanji dictionaries use a subset of such graph-eme elements to classify characters (bushu, engl.
?radicals?).
For the time beingour analysis of the grapheme elements usesmostly existing kanji or given radicals.The data concerning stroke forms, graph-eme elements and relative position can, ofcourse, be used for kanji look up.To display the collected information con-cerning a kanji and its components, graphicaldata is needed.
This is achieved in our caseusing a vector graphics software (Adobe Il-lustrator).
Here kanji strokes are representedby paths.
The stroke order is identical withthe order of the path input.To allow for later review and to have moreflexible data, numbers for the stroke order areput beside the strokes.4.1 Possible Applications of the DataThe data presented here allows new ways tolook up kanji:?
Search for kanji by the form of their dif-ferent strokes;?
Input of stroke forms on the numbersblock of the keyboard in a matrix likestyle;?
Search for strokes in the correct stroke or-der;?
Search for grapheme elements:?
Search for stroke forms, radicals andgrapheme elements according to there po-sition.The data allows new ways to display kanji:?
Kanji can be build up according to theirstroke order.
This could be used in dic-tionaries or new teaching material (seefigure 1);?
Practising sheets to write kanji can begenerated automatically;?
Animation can be achieved automatically;?
Grapheme elements and stroke groupscan be highlighted (see figure 2) etc.4.2 An Example: Automatic Animationof Kanji StrokesThe path data created with Illustrator was ex-ported into Scalable Vector Graphics format.SVG is an application of XML proposed bythe World Wide Web Consortium.
It providesa clear description of the graphical data wellsuited for the task at hand.Figure 1: Building up a kanji by its strokesaccording to their stroke orderFigure 2: Highlighting grapheme elements withcoloursThe graphical description of a kanji con-sists mostly of an ordered list of strokes.
InSVG, we represent a stroke by a path ele-ment.
For instance, the first stroke of the kanji( kan , ?Han-China?)
is:<path d="M21.38, 19.75, c3.31,1.47, 8.54, 6.05, 9.37, 8.34"/>The d attribute of the path element containsthe path data in a compact form.
This data isa list of drawing commands that an SVG ren-derer will execute to draw the path.
The pathdata for every stroke will consist of a se-quence of B?zier curves, which are paramet-ric curves defined by four control points.Several paths can be grouped together un-der a group element, which allows the associ-ation of groups of paths (i.e., lists of strokes)with every grapheme element of a kanji.
It isthen possible to deal directly with graphemeelements in the graphic representation of thekanji, in order to highlight such elements (asin figure 2) or to link them to other SVGfiles?e.g.
clicking on the left component ofwould link it to the kanji  ( mizu , ?wa-ter?
), which is this component?s standardform.The SVG data available so far is static.Our goal is to present it in a dynamic fashion,showing strokes one by one, in the order andthe direction in which they should be drawn.We will add an animated child element toevery path in the static SVG file to create itsanimated counterpart.
The animate elementcontrols the moment at which the path isdrawn, and the shape it should take.Unfortunately there is no special com-mand in SVG to draw a path progressively.
Asolution is to divide every path in severalsmaller ones, and to draw each segment oneafter another, giving the impression of an in-visible pen drawing the kanji.
Our divisionstrategy is to segment every curve in a pathinto a fixed number of elements.
That numberof element is set to a power of two, becausedividing B?zier curves into two is very easyto do.
Longer strokes will consist of morecurves than shorter ones, and it will take moreto time to draw them; the distribution of thecontrol points along the curves makes the an-imation look quite natural.At the end, an animation is controlled bytwo parameters: the number of segments intowhich a curve is split and the time betweenthe drawing of two strokes.
Modifying thesevalues will make the drawing slower or faster,and more or less smooth.The first stroke of our example kanji willnow look like shown below.
The animationwill start at time 0; it lasts for 0.45 secondsand it will iterate over the values given by thevalue?s attribute.
The d attribute in the pathparent element will take these successive val-ues over time.<path d=""><animate attributeName="d"begin="0" dur="0.45s"values="M21.38 19.75 C21.7919.93 22.23 20.16 22.69 20.43;M21.38 19.75 C21.79 19.93 22.2320.16 22.69 20.43 C23.16 20.723.63 21.01 24.12 21.35;?
"/></path>4.3 Future WorkBased on the existing data, it is easy to de-velop further data concerning variations instroke order or kanji form.Especially the stroke descriptions couldbe used for better graphical character recog-nition.
It may even lead to software that isable to recognize incorrect input, and is capa-ble of explaining the user how to correct it.So far we deal only with Japanese kanji,but, of course, the same approach could beused for other characters like hiragana andkatakana or the traditional and the shortenedChinese characters.5 ConclusionNeither the analysis of kanji into strokes orgrapheme elements, nor animation of kanjistroke order or the highlighting of graphemeelements are totally new.The problem until now has been that foreach of these tasks one had to build new datapractically from scratch.
This is the reasonwhy existing grapheme analysis, movie fileswith animated strokes, or kanji graphics withnumbered strokes deal only with a few hun-dred kanji (see some examples in the refer-ences).
In contrast our data cover already sev-eral thousands of characters and glyph varia-tions.
Corresponding animations etc.
can begenerated automatically.In sum, our data seem to be very adapta-ble.
They have the potential of being used fora wide range of applications?many of whichwe haven?t even thought of ourselves.ReferencesHadumod Bu?mann.
1990.
Lexikon derSprachwissenschaft.
Kr?ner, Stuttgart.Emori Kenji.
2003.
Kai gy?
s?
?hitsujun jitaijiten.
Sanseido Tokyo.Eduardo Fazzioli.
1987.
Gemalte W?rter.
214chinesische Schriftzeichen ?
Vom Bild zumBegriff.
L?bbe, Bergisch Gladbach.John Ferraiolo, Fujisawa Jun and Dean Jack-son, editors.
2003.
Scalable Vector Gra-phics (SVG) 1.1 Specification.
http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG11/.Wolfgang Hadamitzky.
1995.
LangenscheidtsHandbuch der japanischen Schrift ?
Kanjiund Kana 1.
Handbuch.
Langenscheidt,Berlin et alK?dansha Encyclopedia of Japan.
1998.K?dansha, Tokyo.Monbush?.
1958.
Hitsujun shid?
no tebiki.Hakubund?, Tokyo.Berthold Schmidt.
1995.
Einf?hrung in dieSchrift und Aussprache des Japanischen.Buske, Hamburg.
