Detecting semantic relations between terms in definitionsV?ronique MALAIS?
1,21 STIM/AP-HP, ERM 202 INSERM& CRIM-INaLCO91, boulevard de l?H?pital75013 Paris,France,{vma,pz}@biomath.jussieu.frPierre ZWEIGENBAUM1 Bruno BACHIMONT 22DRE de l?INAInstitut National de l?Audiovisuel4, avenue de l?Europe94366 Bry-sur-Marne Cedex,France,{vmalaise,bbachimont}@ina.frAbstractTerminology structuring aims to elicit semantic re-lations between the terms of a domain.
We proposehere to exploit definitions found in corpora to ob-tain such semantic relations.
Definition typologiesshow that definitions can be introduced by differ-ent semantic relations, some of these relations be-ing likely to structure terminologies.
Our aim istherefore to mine ?defining expressions?
in domain-specific corpora, and to detect the semantic rela-tions they involve between their main terms.
Weuse lexico-syntactic markers and patterns to detectat the same time both a definition and its main se-mantic relation.
46 markers and 74 patterns havebeen designed and tuned on a first corpus in the fieldof anthropology.
We report on their evaluation on asecond corpus in the field of dietetics, where theyobtained 4% to 36% recall and from 61 to 66% pre-cision, and discuss the relative accuracy of differentsubclasses of markers for this task.1 IntroductionA terminology is an artifact structuring terms ac-cording to some semantic relations.
Grabar andHamon (2004) present the different semantic rela-tions likely to be found in terminologies.
Thesecan be divided into lexical (synonymy), vertical(hypernymy, meronymy) and transversal relations(domain-specific relations).
A study of definitiontypologies, like the one of (Auger, 1997), showsthat these different relations are also present in def-initions.
We can then hypothesise that mining defi-nitions along with the detection of their inherent se-mantic relation can help to organise terms accordingto the relations used in structured terminologies.
Wefocus in this paper on the detection of terms relatedby hypernymy and synonymy in definitions.The automatic detection of definitions can relyon different types of existing works.
We can, first,consider the studies describing what definition is,and more particularly what definition in corpus islike.
In this respect, we can cite the work of Trim-ble (1985), Flowerdew (1992), Sager (2001) andMeyer (2001).
Another type of interesting exist-ing work is about typologies of definitions: Mar-tin (1983), Chukwu and Thoiron (1989) and Auger(1997), amongst others, provide, in their classifica-tions of definitions, linguistic clues to find defin-ing statements in corpus.
We propose to integratethe typologies that we mention in section 2.2, alongwith the linguistic clues they give: the definitionmarkers.
And, at last, some works have already fo-cused on mining definitions from corpora, includingCartier (1997), Pearson (1996), Rebeyrolle (2000)and Muresan and Klavans (2002), mostly throughthe use of lexical definition markers.
These worksprovide us with methodological guidelines and an-other set of lexical markers for our own experiment.As (Pearson (1996); Rebeyrolle (2000)), ourmethod is based on lexico-syntactic patterns, so thatwe can build on the work on French language byRebeyrolle (2000).
We extended her work in tworespects: an analysis of the parenthesis as low-levellinguistic clue for definitions, and the concomitantextraction of the semantic relation involved in a?defining expression?, along with the extraction ofthe definition itself.
Previous works have, for in-stance, mined definitions to find terms specific to aparticular domain of knowledge (Chukwu and Tho-iron (1989)), and to describe their meaning (Rebey-rolle, 2000); we focus on the detection of the seman-tic relations between the main terms of a definitionin order to help a terminologist to build a structuredterminology following these relations.We implemented an interface to visualise thesedefinitions and semantic relations extractions.
Wetuned markers and patterns for extracting defini-tions and semantic relations on a first corpus aboutanthropology; we then tested the validity of thesemarkers and patterns on another corpus focused ondietetics.
The purpose of this test was, on the onehand, to observe whether definitions were still cor-rectly extracted on the basis of patterns trained ona corpus differing in the domain of knowledge andin the genre of documents involved, and, on theCompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology 55other hand, to detect if the semantic relation associ-ated with each pattern was the same as the one ob-served in the first corpus.
The markers and patternsshowed to be comparable to the other experimentsmentioned in terms of definition extraction: the pre-cision reached from 61 to 66%.
As for the seman-tic relation associated with the patterns, it obtaineddifferent scores, depending on the marker.
But, inmost cases, one main semantic relation is associ-ated with a pattern in the scope of a single domain,event though a few patterns convey the same rela-tion across our two corpora.The remainder of this paper is organised as fol-lows: we first present previous work (section 2), de-scribe our method and experiment (section 3), thenpresent and discuss results (section 4) and concludewith directions for future work (section 5).2 Previous work2.1 Description of definitions in corpusAs a first approach for detecting and extractingdefining statements in corpora, we have to... de-fine this object.
In the literature (Trimble (1985);Flowerdew (1992),.
.
.
), three categories of defini-tions are often mentioned: the formal definition, thesemi-formal and the ?non-formal?
one.
The formaldefinition follows the Aristotelian schema: X = Y +specific characteristics, where X is the defined term(the ?definiendum?
), ?=?
means an equivalence re-lation, Y stands for the generic class to which Xbelongs (the ?Genus?
), and specific characteris-tics detail in which respect X is different from theother items composing the same generic class.
Asemi-formal definition relates the definiendum onlywith specific characteristics, or with its attribute(s)(Meyer, 2001).
Formal and semi-formal definitionscan be of simple type (expressed in one sentence),or complex (expressed in two, or more sentences).A non-formal definition aims ?to define in a gen-eral sense so that a reader can see the familiar el-ement in whatever the new term may be?
(Trimble,1985).
It can be an association with a synonym, aparaphrase or grammatical derivation.The common point between all these points ofviews on the same linguistic object, or between allthese different objects sharing the same appellation?definition?, is that they all follow the same didac-tic purpose of disambiguating the meaning of a lex-ical item, that is to distinguish it from the others inthe general language, or inside a specific vocabu-lary.
These definition descriptions present them asthe association between a term and its hypernym (its?genus?
), or between a term and its specific charac-teristics.
But there are yet other ways to expressdefinitions, as the works on their typology shows.2.2 Typology of definitionsExisting definitions typologies are all dedicated toa specific purpose.
We are particularly interested inthose which aim at eliciting linguistic clues that canbe used to mine defining contexts from corpora.
Wework on French, for which Martin (1983) has classi-fied dictionary definitions in order to give guidelinesfor a consistent (electronic) dictionary.
In the con-text of corpus-based research, Chukwu and Thoiron(1989) gave another classification, aiming at findingdomain-specific terms in corpora.
A unified typol-ogy is provided by Auger (1997), compiling bothcited typologies along with three others, and fromwhich we draw the following three categories:?
Definitions expressed by ?low level?
linguisticmarkers: punctuation clues such as parenthe-sis, quote, dash, colon;?
Definitions expressed by lexical markers: lin-guistic or metalinguistic lexical items;?
Definitions expressed by ?high level?
linguisticmarkers: syntactic patterns such as anaphora orapposition.The definitions introduced by lexical means are di-vided in two branches, characterised by the lexi-cal markers in table 1.
We added elements fromother studies ((Rebeyrolle, 2000) and (Fuchs, 1994)amongst others), and augmented this typology withDefinitions introduced by linguistic markersCopulative ?a X is a Y that?Equivalence ?equivalent to?Characterisation ?attribute of?, ?qual-ity?,.
.
.Analysis ?composed of?, ?equippedwith?, ?made of?,.
.
.Function ?to have the function?, ?therole of?, ?to use X to doY?,.
.
.Causality ?to cause X by Y?, ?to ob-tain X by?,.
.
.Definitions introduced by metalinguistic mark-ersDesignation ?to designate?, ?tomean?,.
.
.Denomination ?to name?Systemic ?to write?, ?to spell?, ?thenoun?,.
.
.Table 1: Lexical markers (English translation)CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology56new markers, including some items introducing re-formulation contexts (?that is?, ?to say?, ?for in-stance?, .
.
.
).The Aristotelian definition type is presented hereas a ?copulative?
definition, as it is linguisticallymarked by the copula ??tre?
(to be).
It involves ahypernymic relation (and specific differences) to de-scribe the meaning of a term, so we consider it as a?hypernymic definition?.
But we can see in table 1that other semantic relations can also be used to de-fine a term: synonymy (definition of ?equivalence?type), meronymy (?analysis?
type), causality andother domain-specific transversal relations (?func-tion?, ?characterisation?
types).
Mining a defini-tion of ?synonymic type?
provides different denom-inations for the same concept; one of ?hypernymytype?
can help modelling the vertical structure be-tween the ?definiendum?
and the first term of the?definiens?
(conceptual ?father?
and ?son?
associa-tion); and definitions following transversal relationsallow the expression of specific knowledge.
We fo-cus in this paper on the extraction of definitions in-volving hypernymy and synonymy, which are themost generally considered relations in terminologybuilding.2.3 Automatic definition miningAutomatic definition mining from corpora canbe divided in different groups, according to themethodologies followed.
We will illustrate them bydescribing three recent families of works: (i) Cartier(1997), (ii) Pearson (1996) and Rebeyrolle (2000),(iii) Muresan and Klavans (2002).
They haveused respectively ?contextual exploration?, lexico-syntactic patterns and linguistic analysis and rules.The former one extracts defining statements onthe basis of the match of linguistic clues, when theyare relayed in the sentence by some linguistic rules.These rules are developped by the author, withingthe schema defined in the ?contextual exploration?methodology (Descl?s, 1996).Pearson (1996) and Rebeyrolle (2000) have fol-lowed the methodology described by Hearst (1992),up to now mainly applied to discover hyponymousterms.
It consists in describing the lexico-syntacticcontext of an occurrence of a pair of terms known toshare a semantic relation.
Modelling the context inwhich they occur provides a ?pattern?
to apply to thecorpus, in order to extract other pairs of terms con-nected by the same relation.
Pearson and Rebeyrollehave modelled lexico-syntactic contexts around lex-ical clues interpreted as ?definition markers?.
Re-beyrolle, working on French, evaluated the differentpattern types she modelled, across different corpora:she obtained a precision range of 17.95 ?
79.19%,and a recall of 94.75 ?
100%.
The difference be-tween the two numeric boundaries of the precisionrange is due to the kind of markers involved inthe lexico-syntactic pattern evaluated: metalinguis-tic markers obtained a high precision rate, but notlinguistic lexical markers.The latter pair of authors have based their systemDEFINDER (http://www1.cs.columbia.edu/~smara/DEFINDER/) on the lexical andsyntactic analysis of a medical corpus, with semi-automatic definition acquisition.
Their evaluationis focused on the usefulness of the system, ascompared with existing specialised medical dictio-naries.
They reach a 86.95% precision and 75.47%recall, following their evaluation methodology.We chose to follow the first methodology in ourexperiment (see section 3), in which we additionallyexplore definition mining in some cases where thedefinition is not introduced by lexical items.
Fol-lowing this methodology enables us to build on ex-isting work dedicated to French, which showed tobe interesting and efficient.
The lexico-syntacticpattern methodology also enables us to access thedifferent linguistic elements we were interested inmining: the definition itself, the main terms of thedefinition and the semantic relation between them.We focus this experimentation more particularlyon identifying the semantic relations of synonymyand hypernymy involved in the different definitionslikely to be found in corpora.
We aim at testingwhether a stable link can be established between thedefinition extraction pattern and a specific semanticrelation.3 Detecting Semantic RelationsOur goal is to automatically detect some of the se-mantic relations that might be found in definitionsand to propose them to a human validator in chargeof structuring a terminology.
We focus on hyper-nymy and synonymy, which are the most classicalrelations found in terminology.
If the relation ishypernymy, the terms are to be modelled in a hi-erarchical way, if it is synonymy, both terms canbe used to express the same concept.
The rela-tions and the definitions are extracted together fromcorpora, by the same lexico-syntactic patterns.
Wepresent in the next subsections our two corpora (sec-tion 3.1), then the lexico-syntactic patterns we used(section 3.2) and their experimental evaluation (sec-tion 3.3): we analyse whether a relation found inconnection with a lexico-syntactic pattern in thetraining corpus can be unchanged in the context ofthe same lexico-syntactic pattern, when applied to aCompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology 57different corpus.3.1 Description and preparation of the corporaOur training corpus (76 Kwords) is focused onchildhood, from the point of view of anthropolo-gists.
It is composed of different genres of docu-ments (documentary descriptions, thesis report ex-tracts, Web documents).
Documentary descriptionswere humanly collected, whereas electronic doc-uments were automatically collected from Inter-net via the tools of (Grabar and Berland, 2001).Our evaluation corpus (480 Kwords), in the do-main of dietetics, is composed of Web documentsindexed by the CISMeF quality-controlled cata-log of French medical Web sites (http://www.chu-rouen.fr/cismef/) in the subtrees ?Di-etetics?
and ?Nutrition?
of the MeSH thesaurus.It is mainly composed of medical courses andWeb pages presenting information about nutri-tion in different medical contexts.
Both cor-pora were morpho-syntactically analysed by Cor-dial Analyser (Synapse Developpement, http://www.synapse-fr.com/).
Cordial tags, lem-matises and parses a corpus, yielding grammaticalfunctions (subject, object, .
.
. )
between chunks.3.2 Lexico-syntactic patternsA given linguistic marker (see, e.g., table 1) can oc-cur in different contexts, some of which are defini-tions, and can be a clue for different semantic rela-tions.
Lexico-syntactic patterns aim at reducing thisambiguity by specifying more restricted contexts inwhich a definition is found, and, furthermore, inwhich one specific semantic relation is involved.Unlike (Hearst, 1992), we started the pattern de-sign by analysing marker occurrences in our train-ing corpus.
We designed and tuned our lexico-syntactic patterns on this corpus, patterns dedicatedto the extraction of definitions and specific relations:hypernymy and synonymy.
Our patterns use the in-formation output by the parser, including lemma,morpho-syntactic category and grammatical func-tion.
For instance: ?N (N)?
specifies that the marker?(?
has to be preceded by a noun, and immediatelyfollowed by a single common noun, followed by aclosing parenthesis.
In this specific case, ?(?
intro-duces a hypernymic definition.Each pattern drives different kinds of processing:?
extraction of the defining sentence on the basisof the whole pattern;?
selection of one ?preferred?
relation associatedwith the specific pattern, among the set of pos-sible relations associated with the marker; thisrelation stands between the interdefined termsof the definition;?
extraction of the interdefined terms followingtwo strategies (contextual or based on depen-dencies around the marker), depending on themorphosyntactic category of the marker.
Whenthe marker is a punctuation or a noun, we usu-ally extract its left and right syntactic contexts1(roughly the first chunk before the marker, andthe first chunk after the marker in the sen-tence).
When the marker is a verb, we extractits subject and object if they exist in the sen-tence, otherwise we extract its left and rightchunks, as in the previous case.Our patterns are implemented in XSLT and the re-sulting extractions are shown to a human validatorthrough a Web interface (figure 1): an HTML formallowing the validator to complete and correct theextractions.
It is possible for the validator to correctthe terms extracted from the definition, in particu-lar because the chunk often includes punctuation,which is usually not considered as part of the term,and it is possible to select a different semantic rela-tion than the one proposed when it happens not tobe the correct one.
A combo box shows all the pos-sible relations related to the marker involved in thelexico-syntactic pattern which provided the extrac-tion of the defining sentence.3.3 Experimental setupWe tuned our lexico-syntactic patterns to extractdefinitions from the test corpus.
We associatedwith each pattern a ?preferential?
semantic relation,which human corpus analysis showed to be the morelikely to be connected to the definitions extracted bythe means of this pattern.
The aim of the experimentis to test the stability of this connection, by applyingthe patterns to the evaluation corpus.A random sample of the test corpus (13 textsamong 132) was manually processed to tag its def-initions, in order to have a standard measure forthe evaluation of recall.
Table 2 shows the numberof definitions of synonymic and hypernymic typesfound in that sample, and provides the percentagesof these definitions among all the different kinds oftagged definitions (?% definitions?)
in that sample.Some definitions involved more than one semanticrelation, so we also present the percentage of hyper-nymic and synonymic relations among all the se-mantic relations (?% relations?
).1Depending on the position of the marker in the sentence, itmight be the two following or two preceding chunks.CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology58Figure 1: Human validation interface for definitions extracted with the parenthesis markerHypernymy Synonymy# definitions 90 22% definitions 44, 5% 10, 8%% relations 39, 1% 9, 5%Table 2: Number and percentages of hypernymicand synonymic definitions in a random sample ofthe test corpus, according to the human evaluatorIn our experiment, we evaluate in turn the qualityof the extracted definitions, then that of semanticrelations (hypernymy and synonymy).4 Results and discussionTable 3 shows the number of markers and patternsprepared and tuned on the training corpus to extractdefinitions based on hypernymy or synonymy.
Notethat a given marker can be used in different patternsto extract different semantic relations.
Some mark-ers were also associated in one pattern: the met-alinguistic nouns and verbs.
We combined thembecause their individual recall was not lowered bythis association and their precision score was im-proved.
The sentences below are examples of sen-Hypernymy Synonymy# markers 3 43# patterns 4 70Table 3: Number of markers and patternstences extracted by our system; the underlined partis the marker:?
Hypernymic relation:?Les acides gras de la s?rie omega-3 ( MAX-epa ) peuvent ?galement ?tre prescrits .?,?[.
.
.
]les fromages ?
p?te cuite ( tels quepar exemple le fromage de Hollande ).??
Synonymic relation:?L?
activit?
physique est d?finie comme toutmouvement corporel produit par la contractiondes muscles squelettiques ,[.
.
.
]?,?une relation inverse entre l?
activit?
physiqueet l?
insulin?mie ou la sensibilit?
?
l?
insulineest habituellement observ?e .
?Table 4 presents the evaluation results: we dividethem according to the semantic relation extracted.It shows the number of definitions retrieved, and theassociated precision and recall.
Precision is dividedin two measures.Hypernymy Synonymy# extractedsentences270 585Precision (def) 61% 66%Precision (rel) 26% 15%Recall (rel) 4% 36%Table 4: Evaluation of precision (test corpus) andrecall (random sample of test corpus)CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology 59?
the proportion of extracted sentences that cor-responded to definitions (def ), and?
the proportion of correct semantic relationsfound in retrieved definitions (rel).Recall is the proportion of retrieved definitionswhich correctly display the semantic relation iden-tified in the sample corpus among all the definitionspresent in this sample which were tagged as havingthis semantic relation by the human evaluator.2The precision of extracted definitions is compara-ble to Rebeyrolle?s results.
The precision of seman-tic relations is much lower, but a global evaluationdoes not show the particular behavior of some of themarkers.
We list below the markers which were ac-tually involved in the extraction of definitions in thetest corpus.?
Markers implied in hypernymic definition re-trieval: ?parenth?se?
(parenthesis), ?par ex-emple?
(for instance), ?sorte de?
(a kind of);?
Markers implied in synonymic definition re-trieval: ?parenth?se?
(parenthesis), ?il s?agitde?
(as for), ?indiquer?
(to indicate), ?soit?
(that is), ?expliquer?
(to explain), ?pr?ciser?
(to specify), ?marquer?
(to mark), ?enfin?
(say), ?ou?
(or), ?comme?
(as), ??
savoir?
(that is), ?autrement dit?
(in other words), ?ausens de?
(meaning), ??quivaloir?
(to be equiv-alent), ?c?est-?-dire?
(that is), ?d?finir?
(todefine), ?d?signer?
(to designate), ?nommer?
(to name), ?d?nommer?
(to name), ?r?f?rer?
(to refer), ?expression?
(expression), ?terme?
(term).Table 5 presents the different semantic relationsfound in the definitions retrieved by each marker.The first column references the markers involved inthe extraction of the definition, the second (?Ex-pected?)
presents the number of definitions, ex-tracted by each marker, following the expected re-lation.
?Other?
gives the number of retrieved def-initions following another semantic relation, ?Un-decidable?
represents the number of definitions forwhich we could not determine the semantic rela-tion,3 and ?Non definition?
presents the number ofretrieved sentences that were not definitions.42The percentage of definitions of hypernymic and syn-onymic type among all definitions in the sample of the test cor-pus is given in table 2.3Because our system extracts only one sentence, and alarger context was necessary to understand the semantic rela-tion involved, or because of a problem in the conversion ofsome HTML documents to texts for the evaluation corpus.4Except sentences presenting terms in a paradigm context,which is also interesting for terminology structuring.
We in-Definitions retrieved with the hypernymy patternsinvolved very generic markers, and they introduceda number of other semantic relations.
The patternaround ?for instance?, for which 16 extracted sen-tences out of 95 were not definitions, can still bespecified to discriminate defining contexts from oth-ers.
We can notice, though, that it is one of themost productive patterns (95 extractions) and that itreaches a 47, 3% precision.
But the patterns aroundthe parenthesis show that the same syntactic con-text can introduce different kinds of relations: inthis case, the lexico-syntactic pattern cannot disam-biguate the relation any further.
The pattern ?N(N)?
introduced ?hypernymic definitions?, as wellas ?synonymic?
or ?meronymic?
ones, the samesyntactic context being even likely to be interpretedas a transversal relation between a treatment and adisease, for instance.
It is the sentence as a wholethat has to be interpreted in order to be able to definethe relevant semantic relation between the terms inthat syntactic context.Some linguistic markers (as ?comme?)
are re-liable for detecting a semantic relation: 9 sen-tences out of 13 were ?synonymic definitions?.But surprisingly enough, some metalinguistic verbs(?d?finir?, for instance) were not as effective asthem in that purpose.
?D?finir?
introduced only22 ?synonymic definitions?
out of 68 sentences re-trieved.
One could think that a verb with metalin-guistic function could be less polysemic than an-other of more ?generic purpose?.
This naive hopehappens to be wrong: ?D?finir?
means ?to fix(a limit)?
as often as ?to define?.
Some markerssteadily introduced a semantic relation, but not theone they were supposed to: this variation is prob-ably due to the change in domains across our twocorpora.
And some patterns obviously introduced adefinition, but the defined element was in the previ-ous sentence (this is the case of 92 extractions withpatterns involving the marker ?Il s?agit de?).
As oursystem, up to now, extracts only one sentence, wecould not determine whether the semantic relationwas the one expected.
We must address this prob-lem, and we can hope that the precision rate willthen be better than the one presented here: somesentences for which we could not interpret the se-mantic relation might convey the one we expected.The best precision score is reached by patterns in-volving two markers: a metalinguistic noun associ-ated with a metalinguistic verb.
In a more generalway, analysing the defining sentences extracted, wecould see that sentences that were the ?best?
defi-nitions (the closest to dictionary definitions) oftencluded this paradigm context in the ?Other?
column.CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology60Marker Expected Other Undecidable Non definition TotalParenthesis (Parenth?se) Hyp: 25 Meronymy: 1,Syn-onymy: 38 (+3),Transversal: 74 84 163For instance (Par exemple) Hyp: 45 Transversal: 2 32 16 95A kind of (Une sorte de) Hyp: 1 Transversal: 2 5 5 13Parenthesis (Parenth?se) Syn: 10 Paradigm: 9 2 4 25As for (Il s?agit de) Syn: 10 Transversal: 4,Hypernymy: 192 9 115To indicate (Indiquer) Syn: 5 Transversal: 12 6 77 100That is (Soit) Syn: 7 Paradigm: 31,Transversal: 1315 1 66To explain (Expliquer) Syn: 1 Transversal: 21 15 28 65To specify (Sp?cifier) Syn:1 Transversal: 5 9 26 41To mark (Marquer) Syn: 1 Transversal: 7 6 12 26Say (Enfin) Syn: 0 Paradigm: 3 2 1 6Or (Ou) Syn: 3 Paradigm: 23 1 0 27As (Comme) Syn: 9 Paradigm: 1 1 2 13That is (A savoir) Syn: 4 Hypernymy: 3 5 0 12In other words (Autrement dit) Syn: 1 0 2 0 3Equivalent to (?quivaloir) Syn: 0 0 4 0 4To define (D?finir) Syn: 22 Transversal: 8 19 19 68To designate (D?signer) Syn: 3 Hypernymy: 0 0 0 3Term (Terme) Syn: 1 0 1 0 2Meaning (Au sens de) Syn: 0 0 1 0 1That is (C?est-?-dire) Syn: 1 0 0 0 1To name (Nommer) Syn: 0 0 2 1 3To name (D?nommer) Syn: 1 0 0 0 1To refer to (R?f?rer) Syn: 0 0 0 2 2Expression (Expression) Syn: 0 1 1 0 2Table 5: Semantic relations in retrieved definitionsinvolved two or even three markers.
This underlinesthe interest of introducing a relevance measure thattakes into account the number of markers present inthe sentence.5 ConclusionsOur experiment tried to link the semantic relationinherent to different kinds of definitions with themarker (the heart of our lexico-syntactic patterns)and more specifically with the lexico-syntactic pat-terns at the origin of the extraction of the definitionitself.
Having a close look at some of the mark-ers, we can observe that some linguistic items canbe very reliable markers for definition extraction as-sociated with a semantic relation.
We can also findout that the polysemy of some markers is relatedto the domain of the corpus.
In that respect, thereusability of the lexico-syntactic patterns is limitedto a set of markers which were found to be reli-able across our two corpora.
What is more prob-lematic is the fact that it is sometimes not possibleto make a specific distinction between different se-mantic relations detected with the same marker inthe context of definitions sharing most of their syn-tactic contexts.
But most of the patterns retrieve agood rate of defining sentences, some patterns be-ing more reliable than others; and the more numer-ous the markers involved, the more likely it is thatwe have a definition.
And usually these patterns re-trieve definitions following one main semantic rela-tion (this is not the case however for parenthesis andthe patterns involving the marker ??
savoir?).
Thisleads to the hypothesis that if lexico-syntactic pat-terns may not be used to propose semantic relationsthat are valid across different domains, they remaina good clue for mining definitions, especially defini-CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology 61tions of one type of semantic relation inside a givendomain.
Moreover, given a new corpus, applyingthe existing patterns to a sub-corpus could lead tothe elicitation of the associated semantic relationsfor that corpus, which could be a relevant method-ology to discover pairs of terms following these as-sociated relations.ReferencesA.
Auger.
1997.
Rep?rage des ?nonc?s d?int?r?td?finitoire dans les bases de donn?es textuelles.Th?se de doctorat, Universit?
de Neuch?tel.E.
Cartier.
1997.
La d?finition dans les textesscientifiques et techniques : pr?sentation d?unoutil d?extraction automatique de relations d?fini-toires.
2e Rencontres "Terminologie et In-telligence Artificielle" (TIA?97), Equipe deRecherche en Syntaxe et S?mantique.
Toulouse,3-4 avril 1997:127?140.U.
Chukwu and P. Thoiron.
1989.
Reformulationet rep?rage des termes.
La Banque des Mots,Num?ro sp?cial CTN - INaLF - CNRS:23?53.J.-P. Descl?s.
1996.
Syst?mes d?exploration con-textuelle.
Table ronde sur le Contexte, avril 1996,Caen.J.
Flowerdew.
1992.
Definitions in science lectures.Linguistics, vol.13 (2):202?221.C.
Fuchs.
1994.
Paraphrase et ?nonciation.
Paris,Ophrys.N.
Grabar and S. Berland.
2001.
Construire uncorpus web pour l?acquisition terminologique.4e rencontres Terminologie et Intelligence Arti-ficielle (TIA 2001), Nancy:44?54.N.
Grabar and T. Hamon.
2004.
Les relations dansles terminologies structur?es : de la th?orie ?
lapratique.
Revue d?Intelligence Artificielle (RIA),18-1:57?85.M.
Hearst.
1992.
Automatic acquisition of hy-ponyms from large text corpora.
15th Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguistics(COLING 1992), Nantes:539?545.R.
Martin.
1983.
Pour une logique du sens.
Paris,PUF.I.
Meyer.
2001.
Extracting knowledge-rich con-texts for terminography.
In D. Bourigault, edi-tor, Recent advances in Computational Terminol-ogy, pages 279?302.
John Benjamins PublishingCompany, Philadelphia, PA.S.
Muresan and J. L. Klavans.
2002.
A methodfor automatically building and evaluating dic-tionary resources.
the language Resources andEvaluation Conference (LREC 2002), Las Pal-mas, Spain:231?234.J.
Pearson.
1996.
The expression of definitionsin specialised texts: a corpus-based analysis.In M. Gellerstam, J. J?rborg, S. G. Malmgren,K.
Nor?n, L.Rogstr?m, and C. Papmehl, edi-tors, 7th International Congress on Lexicography(EURALEX?96), pages 817?824.
G?teborg Uni-versity, G?teborg, Sweden.J.
Rebeyrolle.
2000.
Forme et fonction de la d?fi-nition en discours.
Th?se de doctorat, Universit?de Toulouse II - Le Mirail.J.
C. Sager.
2001.
Essays on Definition.
John Ben-jamins, Amsterdam.L.
Trimble.
1985.
English for Science and Technol-ogy: A Discourse Approach.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, Cambridge.CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology62
