A computerized dictionary : Le Tr?sor de la langue fran?aise informatis?
(TLFi)Pascale BERNARDATILF (Analyse et TraitementInformatique de la LangueFran?aise, UMR 7118-CNRS/Universit?
de Nancy2)44 Avenue de la Lib?ration,BP 30687F-54063-Nancy Cedex, FrancePascale.Bernard@atilf.frJacques  DENDIENATILF (Analyse et TraitementInformatique de la LangueFran?aise, UMR 7118-CNRS/Universit?
Nancy2)44 Avenue de la Lib?ration,BP 30687F-54063-Nancy Cedex, FranceJacques.Dendien@atilf.frJean-Marie PIERRELATILF (Analyse et TraitementInformatique de la LangueFran?aise, UMR 7118-CNRS/Universit?
de Nancy2)44 Avenue de la Lib?ration,BP 30687,F-54063-Nancy Cedex, FranceJean-Marie.Pierrel@atilf.frAbstractThis paper presents one of the maincomputerized resources of the researchLaboratory ATILF (Analyse et traitementinformatique de la langue fran?aise) availablevia the Web: the computerized dictionaryTLFi (Tr?sor de la langue fran?aiseinformatis?).
Its highly detailed XMLstructure (over 3,6 million tags) is powered byStella: the extended capacities andpotentialities of this software allows high levelqueries as well as hypernavigation throughand between different databases.1 IntroductionA dictionary, in its electronic form, is a textualdatabase to be used in any natural languageprocessing system.
The size and the contents of theexisting dictionaries vary a lot according to thetarget of the attended public and the cost of theircollected resources.In the article, we present one of our textualresources, the TLFi which is the most importantcomputerized dictionary on French language.
It isaccessible via the web at http://www.atilf.fr/tlfi.2 PresentationLe Tr?sor de la langue fran?aise, The Treasuryof the French language, existed first as a paperversion.
It is a dictionary of the 19th and 20thcentury vocabulary, in 16 volumes.
The firstvolume was published in 1971 and the last one in1993.
It contains about 100 000 head words withtheir etymology and history, that means 270 000definitions, 430 000 examples with their source,the majority of them are extracted from theFrantext database.The computerized version of the dictionary, theTLFi (Tr?sor de la langue fran?aise informatis?
),contains the same data as the paper version, withits 350 million characters.
With the help of verysophisticated automata, we have been able to insertin the text a very complex set of XML tags in sucha way that every textual object is clearly identifiedand that the hierarchy containing these objects isclearly designed.
With this tag set and thanks to itssoftware Stella, it can be seen as a lexical finelystructured database.2.1 Stella: the Toolbox for the TLFiexploitationAs well as all the textual resources of thelaboratory, the textual database FRANTEXT(www.atilf.fr/frantext), the 8th and 9th editions ofthe dictionary of Acad?mie fran?aise and severalothers lexical database (Bernard et col, 2001 et2002),  the TLFi runs on its own speciallysoftware program STELLA, written in thelaboratory,Stella allows a compact data storage (with amathematically demonstrable optimality) ofstructured texts (Dendien, 1996).
Above all, itoffers, to developpers, very powerful tools for theaccess and handling of textual data includingseveral XML hierarchical taggings.Stella offers the users:- An environment to make the requests.
Theinterface is very friendly, with a lot of help on line.It offers fine-grained request possibilities, allowingprecision in the results.- An optimal response time to all requests.- A good quality of service: Stella contains alinguistic ?knowledge?
(flexions, categorizeddatabases) which allows a user to make complexrequests.- A powerful capacity of interrogation: a user canwrite parametrable grammars to be used and re-used in different contexts.- A possibility of hypernavigation throughout allthe databases interconnected under Stella.2.2 Specificities of the TLFi2.2.1 The data:Its originality is based, firstly, on its wordlist,which is rich of about 100 000 entries, presenteither in our funds or in other dictionaries.
TheTLF was a pioneer in the treatment of morphemesor in the treatment of structures of specificvocabularies.Secondly, it is original too, by the richness of thenumber of examples, about 430000, and syntagms,about 165 000, quoted throughout its 16 volumes.Besides, its list of metatextual objects such asheadwords, definitions, indications of domains,semantic and stylistic indicators, examples withtheir sources, fixed phrases is exceptional.
About40 different metatextual objects.The data are proposed in different sections:synchrony, etymology, history, pronunciation,bibliography.2.2.2 The structure:One of the main advantages of a computerizeddictionary is to consider it as a knowledge databasein which one can extract any items contained inany textual object.
In order to get the most relevantanswers when querying the database, the XML tagset is divided into two subsets : the tags of the firstsubset are used as delimiters and identifiers of  thedifferent kinds of textual objects used in the TLF ;the tags of the second subset represent thehierarchical organisation of the articles, in a waysimilar to the block structure of modernprogramming languages.
This introduces veryuseful notions:The scope of an object (from a pragmatic point ofview it is the paragraph in which the object appearsplus all the subparagraphs of this paragraph) is thesmallest block containing this object.The comparison of the scopes defines a binaryrelation between objects.
Let us take the exampleof an article devoted to the headword W,containing the stylistic indicator ?popular?
and anexample of Zola.
Does this example illustrate apopular sense of W?
The answer is yes if the scopeof the indicator contains the scope of the example,otherwise the answer is no.2.2.3 The different level of queries :Three levels of queries are possible depending onthe users?s need.2.2.3.1.
First level : Simple visualization of anarticle.You can read an article dedicated to a specificheadword by three means.Firstly, you have the possibility to write the wordwith mistakes if you do not know the right spellingof the word.
That is very useful for the users whodo not remember the right accents (acute, grave orcircumflex) for instance.
All kinds of mistakes(like bad or omitted accents, simple/doubleconsonants, missing hyphens) are allowed.
What ismore, any mistake is possible as long as the rightpronunciation is correct.
For instance, if you write?ornitorink?, the article ?ornithorynque?
will befound.
It is also possible to enter an inflected formof a verb (ex.
danseront) or of  an adjective ornoun (ex.
g?n?raux), or even a phonetic equivalentof such a form (ex.
j?n?ro), even with bad accents(ex.
jenero).Secondly, you can  use the possibility of seeing thelist of the main articles contained in the TLFi, thisallows the user to discover unknown words, just asif he was turning the pages of the paper version ofthe dictionary.Thirdly, the user can find an article thanks toselecting sounds and not alphabetical characters.At that level of consulting, you read the dictionaryarticle by article, yet with easy ways of searching aword.2.2.3.2.
Second level : aided requests.At that level you have the possibility of using thedictionary as a textual knowledge database and tomake queries throughout the 16 volumes in oneclick of mouse.
One can make requests on  graphicforms, on inflected forms as well, on sequences ofwords ...The requests can be mono-criterion or multi-criteria.
Examples of mono-criterion requests : allthe words borrowed from Spanish language, all thewords of a specific domain, all the onomatopoeias,all the metaphors and so on.
By specifying severalcriteria, one can extract from the dictionary  all thenouns of a specific domain, all the verbs which areused with a stylistic indicator (for instance?popular?)
and which have been used by an author(for instance Victor Hugo).
Other example : onecan extract also all the definitions which contain aword (for instance instrument) and which at thesame time do not contain the word  measure, andwhich are found in the domain of optics, and so on.2.2.3.3.
Third level : complex requests.The user, at that level, can seek for a set of textualobjects {O1, O2,..., On} imposing them to beconformant to a set of constraints combining thetype, the contents and the relations betweenobjects.Type and contents specifications are sometimespossible in other computerized dictionaries querysystems.
They allow to find articles talking aboutarchitecture or containing an example containedfrom Zola.
Suppose now that we are looking forarticles where an example of Zola is related to thedomain architecture.
The simple fact to combinethe two criteria (must talk about architecture andcontain examples of Zola), is not enough : may besome part of the article is not devoted toarchitecture.
If the example of Zola is in such apart, the article is not relevant.In the TLFi, the problem is solved with a new kindof constraint, by using the scope of objects.
Wewill state that the example must be hierarchicallyinferior to the domain.
Thus, all the articles wherethe example is not in the scope of the domain willbe shifted.This feature is nothing but the simple reflect of theXML tags representing the hierarchy.
It gives theTLFi query system an incredible accuracy.Strangely enough, it seems to be ignored in othercomputarized dictionaries, with the consequence ofvery poor quality results.This powerful feature, plus many other ones, suchas the possibility to make list of words in manyways (manually, by automatical generation of theinflected forms of a given lemma, or by high levelregular expressions selection) and reuse them inrequests, allied to the rich content of the TLFi anda very friendly user?s interface, with help on line,allow very complex querying, with pertinentresults.3 HypernavigationHypernavigation throughout all the databasesinterconnected under Stella is possible.
Forexample, when consulting the TLFi and by simplyclicking on any word in an article, the user cannavigate towards another article of the TLFi,towards a lexical database giving information onthe grammatical category of the word,  towards the8th edition of the dictionary of the French Academy(1932-1935), towards the 9th  edition (started in1990), towards the historical database for Frenchlanguage, called DDL, giving new datations forwords or phrases, and also towards the databaseFRANTEXT, which enables the user to discoverother or more examples on a given word.Historically, the base derives from the textsassembled for providing examples to be used in theelaboration of the Tr?sor de la langue fran?aise(TLF).
This first raison d?
?tre turned to a new one:the desire to offer the scientific community a vastcorpus of texts linked to an efficient query tool.Nowadays, FRANTEXT is a textual databasewhich currently includes 3737 French textscovering a period from 1505 to the present day,amounting in all to more than 217 millions ofwords.4 Uses of the TLFiAt the start the TLF in its paper version wasintended to a public of specialists in linguistics,erudite persons and scholars.The computerization of its data, the friendlyinterface with its help on line, the capacities of thesoftware Stella give a new life to the TLF.As described above, all the possibilities ofqueries allow anyone, specialist or not, to extractany piece of information from that textualdatabase.The TLFi is directed at the widest audience withthe possibility of making queries without knowingthe right spelling of a word.
The majority ofelectronic dictionaries do not offer this possibilityof access to words when spelling is unknown bythe user.
For instance, in the French word?sculpture?, the letter -p- is mute.
Thanks to thisfirst query of research, the user can ask the wordby its spelling :  ?skultur?.
The right answer will beimmediately found.
Besides, another friendly wayto read the computerized TLFi consists in puttingin evidence one or several textual objects bycolouring them.Its interest for linguistic research is obvious forit is a powerful tool to help the user who wants tostudy grammatical classes (verbs, adjectives,adverbs, for instance), syntactical classes (instudying constructions of a verb, more precisely,the user can find the verbs which are followed bythe french preposition ?de?
), etymological classes(verbs borrowed from a language, Latin orEnglish), stylistic classes (ironical or metaphoricaluses, for instance all the adverbs used in slang),morphological classes (the words ending with asuffix, or beginning with a prefix, for instance allthe verbs ending with the suffix ?age and whichare an action of a verb).
It is also possible toexclude the content of a textual object, for instanceif the user wants to extract all the words endingwith the suffix ?able which are not adjectives.The use of the TLFi can also be foreseen forlearning and teaching French language.
Actuallywe are thinking, on one hand, about the pedagogicpossibilities given by that computerized dictionarysuch as it is available at the moment, and on theother hand, about the modifications we could makein order to encourage its use in educationIn the use of the TLFi in teaching such as it is atpresent, we have defined a methodology whoseaim is to allow the use of this important linguisticresource.
In collaboration with a teacher we haveprepared and experimented a set of pedagogicalactivities for children in the CE1 class (7 yearsold).
The results show  that young children, whoare  learning to read, are able, alone or in pairs, touse the TLFi to write a word in capital letters, totell its grammatical category, to find a noun phraseor verb phrase containing this word or to saywhether it is monosemic or polysemic.As regards the modifications we couldimplement in order to get the TLFi to adapt to thelearners, we could mention different types ofmodifications according to the ages of the learners.Firstly, we could, in the articles, change the literaryexamples extracted from the textual databaseFrantext for examples coming from another textualdatabase containing youth literature.
Secondly, weintend to present the information in a slightlydifferent way.
For instance, the syntagms could befound at start of a new paragraph, instead of beingat a place where it is not easy to detect them for ayoung learner.
Thirdly, we intend to give specifichelps and commentaries on line to guide the younglearner.5 ConclusionDesigned and produced first as a paperdictionary, the TLFi is nowadays a computerizeddictionary in which each user, linguist or not, canmake successfully simple or complex requests.
Wewill produce a CD-Rom version in autum  2004but yet every one can have a free access at:http://www.atilf.fr/tlfi.ReferencesCNRS (1976-1993) Tr?sor de la langue fran?aise,dictionnaire de la langue du 19e et du 20e si?cle,CNRS, Gallimard, Paris.P.
Bernard, C. Bernet, J. Dendien, J.M.
Pierrel, G.Souvay, Z. Tucsnak.
2001.
Un serveur deressources informatis?es via le Web.
Actes deTALN-2001, Tours, Juillet 2001, pages 333-338.P.
Bernard, J. Dendien, J. Lecomte, J.M.
Pierrel.2002.
Les ressources de l?ATILF pour l?analyselexicale et textuelle : TLFi, Frantext et le logicielStella.
Actes des 8e Journ?es Internationalesd?Analyse Statistique des Donn?es TextuellesJADT 2002, Saint-Malo 2002, pages 137-149.P.
Bernard, J. Lecomte, J. Dendien, J.M.
Pierrel.2002.
Computerized linguistic resources of theresearch laboratory ATILF for lexical andtextual analysis : TLFi, Frantext and thesoftware Stella.
Actes de LREC-2002, LasPalmas (Canaries).Dendien J., Acces to information in a textualdatabase : acces function and optimal indexes,in Research in Humanities Computing, Papersfrom the ACH-ALLC Conference, Oxford,Clarendon Press, 1996J.
Dendien et J.M.
Pierrel Le tr?sor de la languefran?aise informatis?
: un exemple d?informati-sation d?un dictionnaire de langue de r?f?rencein ?
Les dictionnaires ?lectroniques ?, M. Zocket J. Carroll editors, Traitement Automtique deslangues, Vol 44 ?
n?
2/2003, Herm?s ?Lavoisier, Paris, 2003, pp.
11-37C.
P?lissier, C. Jadelot, J.M.
Pierrel.
2004.M?thodologie li?e ?
l?Utilisation de GrandesRessources Linguistiques dans le Cadre del?Apprentissage : le cas du TLFi en Fran?aisau Cycle 3.
EURALEX 2004, Lorient.
