Using an incremental robust parser to automatically generatesemantic UNL graphsNuria GalaGETA-CLIPS-IMAG385 av.
de la Bibliothe`que, BP 53F-38041 Grenoble cedex 9, Francenuria.gala@imag.frAbstractThe UNL project (Universal Networking Lan-guage) proposes a standard for encoding themeaning of natural language utterances as se-mantic hypergraphs, intended to be used aspivot in multilingual information and commu-nication systems.
Several deconverters permitto automatically translate UNL utterances intonatural languages.
However, a rough enconver-tion from natural language texts to UNL expres-sions is usually done interactively with editorsspecially designed for the UNL project or byhand (which is very time-consuming and diffi-cult to extrapolate to huge amounts of data).In this paper, we address the issue of using anexisting incremental robust parser as main re-source to enconverting French utterances intoUNL expressions.1 IntroductionUNL is a project of multilingual personalnetworking communication initiated by the Uni-versity of United Nations based in Tokyo.
Therepresentation of an utterance in the UNL inter-lingua is a hypergraph where nodes bear uni-versal words (interlingual acceptions) with se-mantic attributes and arcs denote semantic re-lations.
Any natural language utterance can beenconverted (encoded) into a UNL expressionthat can then be used as a pivot in a variety ofpossible applications (multilingual informationretrieval, automatic translation, etc.
).Enconverting into UNL is thus to be unders-tood as the process by which a UNL expressionis generated from the analysis of a natural lan-guage utterance.
This process can be carriedout by different strategies, ranging from fullyautomatic to fully human enconverting.Within the UNL project, a number of soft-ware tools exist for different languages, mainlydictionnaries and deconverters (for French(Serasset and Boitet, 2000), for Tamil (Dhan-abalan and Geeta, 2003), etc.).
However, thereare a few tools for enconversion (for German(Hong and Streiter, 1999), for Spanish1, etc.
).As they are not full automatic enconverters,these systems have not yet proved to be suitablefor dealing with huge amounts of heterogeneousdata.For French, there is currently a version un-der development of an enconverter that uses theAriane-G5 platform (Boitet et al, 1982), an en-vironment for multilingual machine translation,for the analysis of the natural language input.However, this approach has several drawbacks.First, the size of the linguistic input that it canprocess is limited to 200-250 words.
Second, theoutput produced contains all the possible com-plete linguistic analysis for a sentence (multi-ple syntactic and logico-semantic trees).
Thisimplies an interactive disambiguation step tochoose the appropriate linguistic analysis for theenconverter.
Such an interactive disambigua-tion step is not a drawback in itself (it is in-deed very useful in the context of automatictranslation).
The problem rather comes froman efficient disambiguation of huge amounts ofanalysis in a reasonable time.
Finally, the sys-tem is not yet multi-platform (the program cur-rently runs only on Macintosh) and the connec-ting procedures with Ariane-G5 are not very ef-ficient at this time (efforts are currently beingdone to address this issue).To cope with all these difficulties and to de-velop a French enconverter that can generateUNL expressions for large collections of raw cor-pora, we propose to use the ouputs producedby an existing incremental parser which has al-ready proved robust and efficient for parsinghuge amounts of data.This article is organized as follows: afterintroducing the UNL language and giving somedetails on how it represents knowledge in alanguage-neutral way, we present XIP, an in-1http://www.unl.fi.upm.escremental parser, that we will use as the centraltool for the enconversion.
Then, we describe themechanism for transforming XIP?s outputs intoUNL expressions and finally we discuss a pre-liminary evaluation of the enconverter and ourperspectives.2 The Universal NetworkingLanguage (UNL)2.1 The languageUNL is an artificial language that describessemantic networks.
Sentence information isrepresented by hypergraphs having universalwords (UWs) as nodes and relations as arcs.
Ahypergraph can also be represented as a set ofdirected binary relations, between UWs in thesentence.
Linguistic information is encoded bymeans of the UWs, the relations that exist bet-ween them and the attributes that are associ-ated with them.2.2 Universal WordsUniversal Words represent simple or compoundconcepts.
They denote interlingual acceptions(word senses) for a given lemma.An entry in the dictionnary of UniversalWords contains, as illustrated in Figure 1, ahead word (the French lemma ?membre?
in thisexample) followed by a list of morpho-syntacticconstraints.
The last part of the entry containsthe UW itself: a character string (an English-language lemma) between double quotes, whichusually contains a list of semantic constraintsin brackets.
[membre] { CAT(CATN),GNR(MAS,FEM),N(NC) }"associate(icl>member)";[membre] { CAT(CATN),GNR(MAS),N(NC) }"member(icl>human)";[membre] { CAT(CATN),GNR(MAS) }"member(icl>part)";[membre] { CAT(CATN),GNR(MAS),N(NC) }"member";Figure 1: Semantic ambiguity in UniversalWords.When present, the list of semantic constraintsdescribes conceptual restrictions.
For example,the first three entries in Figure 1 define threedifferent acceptions while the last one providesonly the lemma and is thus more general.2.3 RelationsBinary relations are the building blocks for UNLexpressions.
They link together two UWs ina linguistic utterance and have labels that de-pend on the roles the UWs play in the sentence.A UNL relation is represented by a headword(the label of the semantic relation) followed by abracketed expression containing the UWs.
TheUWs are separated by a comma and decoratedwith different kinds of linguistic information.Figure 2 shows the UNL enconversion for thefollowing French sentence:?Lors de la 29e session de la Confe?rencege?ne?rale de l?Unesco, les 186 Etats membresont ratifie?
a` l?unanimite?
ce projet.?2agt(ratify(agt>thing,obj>thing).@entry.@past,state(icl>nation).@def.@pl)mod(state(icl>nation).@def.@pl,member(mod<thing))qua(state(icl>nation).@def.@pl,186)man(ratify(agt>thing,obj>thing).@entry.@past,unanimously(icl>how))obj(ratify(agt>thing,obj>thing).@entry.@past,project(icl>plan(icl>thing)))mod(project(icl>plan(icl>thing)),this)tim(ratify(agt>thing,obj>thing).@entry.@past,session(icl>meeting).@def)mod(session(icl>meeting).@def,29.@ordinal)mod(session(icl>meeting).@def,conference(icl>meeting).@def)mod(conference(icl>meeting).@def,general(mod<thing))mod(conference(icl>meeting).@def,UNESCO.
@def)Figure 2: UNL expressions.The UNL expressions in Figure 2 encode re-lations such as agt (agent), qua (quantifier),mod (modifier), tim (instant time), man (man-ner) and obj (object).As can be seen on the figure, the informationgiven by a UNL relation may be very semanti-cally precise : for example, the notion of ?time?is composed of six labels, corresponding to aninstant time (tim), an initial time (tmf), a finaltime (tmt), a period (dur), a sequence (seq) ora simultaneous action (coo).2In their 29th General Conference, the 186 memberstates of the Unesco ratified their unanimous support ofthe project.The couple of UWs present in a relation havedifferent kinds of attributes : morphological in-formation (def, pl, etc.
), information abouttense (past), etc.2.4 Representation of UNL graphsThe list of UNL relations for a linguistic ut-terance is represented by a UNL hypergraph (agraph where a node is simple or recursively con-tains a hypergraph).
The arcs bear semantic re-lation labels and the nodes are UWs with theirattributes as showed in Figure 3.29 .@ordinal186member(mod>thing).@entry.@pastratify(agt>thing,obj>thing)UNESCO.@defconference(icl>meeting).@defstate(icl>nation).@def.
@plunanimously(icl>how) project(icl>plan(icl>thing))   .
@defsession(icl>meeting)thisgeneral(mod<thing)modmodmod modobjmantimagtmodquamodFigure 3: UNL Hypergraph.UNL hypergraphs must contain one specialnode, called the entry of the graph (usually thefinite verb).
This information is encoded withthe label entry in the list of UNL relations re-presenting the corresponding hypergraph.3 An incremental robust parser3.1 Overview of the parserXIP (Ait-Mokhtar et al, 2002; Hagege andRoux, 2002) is a rule-based platform for buil-ding robust incremental parsers.
It is deve-lopped at the Xerox Research Centre Europe(XRCE) and shares the same computation-nal paradigm as the PNLPL approach (Jensen,1992) and the FDGP approach (Tapanainenand Jarvinen, 1997).At present, various grammars for XIP havebeen built for English and French.
The differentphases of linguistic processing are organized in-crementally : syntactic analysis is done by firstchunking (Abney, 1991) a morphosyntactic an-notated input text and then extracting func-tionnal dependencies (links between the words).The aim of the system is to produce a list ofsyntactic dependencies which may be later usedin applications such as information retrieval, se-mantic disambiguation, coreference resolution,etc.3.2 Incremental approachA XIP parser, like the French parser (that wewill call XIPF hereafter), is composed of diffe-rent modules that transform and process incre-mentally the linguistic information given as in-put.
XIPF contains three main modules: onefor morphological disambiguation (disambigua-tion of POS tags depending on contextual in-formation), another one for chunking (markingstructural groups) and a last one for dependencycalculus (identifying links between words).Each module may have a number of gram-mars which are applied one after the otherdepending on the linguistic complexity of thephenomena present.
For example, for French,the identification of verbal phrases comes afterthe identification of nominal phrases.
The dif-ferent rules in the grammars also apply incre-mentally.
They are organized in levels so thatthey apply sequentially to enrich stepwise thelinguistic analysis.
This strategy favors linguis-tic precision over recall.3.3 Data representationWithin the XIP formalism, information is re-presented by means of syntactic trees with ter-minal nodes or sequences of constituant nodes(such as nominal phrases (NPs), finite verbalphrases (FVs), etc.).
The maximal node for eachtree (sentence) is a virtual node called GROUPE.All nodes, lexical (membre) or not (NP),have a list of features associated with themand describing precise features : typogra-phical (capital letter [maj:+]), lexical (propernoun [proper:+]), morphological (number[plu:+]), syntactic (subcategorization with thepreposition ?a?
[sfa:+]) or semantic (time[tim:+]).Since the complete linguistic information ofa node is always present, even if it is not dis-played in the output, it is simple to manipulateat any time during the analysis.
Therefore, thepossibility of taking into account different kindsof features at any step of the analysis is a con-siderable advantage when building a semanticapplication (the enconversion into UNL expres-sions).Indeed, semantic information can be enrichedby adding new particular features when neces-sary (a feature title has been added to be ap-plied in titles).3.4 XIPF outputThe final result of the parser (a list of syntac-tic dependencies) is obtained from the linguisticprocessing done by the different modules.
Fi-gure 4 shows the XIPF analysis for the Frenchsentence given as example in section 2.3.SUBJ NOUN(ratifie?,Etats)VARG NOUN DIR(ratifie?,projet)VMOD LEFT NOUN INDIR(ratifie?,Lorsde,session)VMOD POSIT1 ADV(ratifie?,a`, l?unanimite?
)NMOD POSIT1 RIGHT ADJ(Confe?rence,ge?ne?rale)NMOD POSIT1 LEFT ADJ NOUN(session,29e)NMOD POSIT1 NOUN(session,de,Confe?rence)NMOD POSIT1 NOUN(Confe?rence,de,Unesco)NN(Etats,membres)DETERM DEF NOUN DET(la,session)DETERM DEF NOUN DET(la,Confe?rence)DETERM DEF NOUN DET(l?,Unesco)DETERM DEF NOUN DET(les,Etats)DETERM DEM NOUN DET(ce,projet)DETERM NUM NOUN(186,Etats)AUXIL(ratifie?,ont)0>GROUPE{SC{PP{Lors de NP{la AP{29e}session}} PP{de NP{la Confe?rence}}AP{ge?ne?rale} PP{de NP{l?
Unesco}} , NP{les186 Etats} NP{membres} FV{ont ratifie?}}
a`l?unanimite?
NP{ce projet} .
}Figure 4: XIPF output.For this sentence, the parser extracts re-lations such as subject (SUBJ), verbal subca-tegorization (VARG), verbal and nominal mo-dification (VMOD, NMOD and NN), determination(DETERM) and verbal auxiliary (AUXIL).
Thehead of the dependency appears as the first ele-ment except in the case of a determination re-lation.Relations usually have a list of morpho-syntactic features associated with them : thePOS tag of the word linked to the head (NOUN ina SUBJ relation, ADJ in a NMOD, etc.
), morpholo-gical precisions (NUM, DEM) or syntactic features(the position of the adjective, POSIT1, RIGHT,etc.
).The process of dependency extraction is de-terministic: the most plausible relation accor-ding to the system is extracted.
The only excep-tion is that of prepositionnal attachment (VMODand NMOD): the linguistic information that theparser has is not enough to handle structuralambiguities.
In this case, all possible relationsappear in the result.3.5 Parser evaluationParsers built with the XIP engine (XIPF) areable to process about 2.000 words/s using 10 Moof memory footprint (only grammars, withoutlexicons)3 .As for linguistic performance, an evalu-ation of XIPF subject and object (VARG)dependencies, conducted on French newspa-pers (Ait-Mokhtar et al, 2001), showed thefollowing precision (P) and recall (R) rates:SUBJECT, P = 93,45 %, R = 89,36 %; OBJECT,P = 90,62 %, R = 86,56 %.Another evaluation carried out with XIPF+(Gala, 2003), a second French parser contai-ning more specialized grammars to handle com-plex phenomena such as punctuation, lists, ti-tles etc., using varied raw corpora from differenttypes and domains4 gives P = 94 % for subjecteven in sentences being or containing lists, enu-merations etc.
and P = 93 % and R = 89,6 %for key words in titles (CLE relation).4 A French UNL enconverter4.1 OverviewThe principal motivation to create a French en-converter is to easily obtain huge amounts ofUNL enconverted corpora which can be subse-quently used in other applications (for example,multilingual information retrieval).
To achievethis objective, one of the main requirements wasalso the reusability of existing robust linguisticresources.The choice of a XIP parser was motivated byseveral reasons.
First, its robustness permits todeal with huge amounts of text (a result is al-ways produced whatever the complexity of theinput).
Second, its modular architecture facili-tates the articulation of different ressources (itis easy to enrich the parser with new lexiconsand grammars and to desactivate a particularmodule when necessary).
Finally, the flexibi-lity of the formalism permits to enrich the rulesand the features with no harm.
We have pre-fered XIPF+ over the standard XIPF becauseof its broader linguistic coverage.The French UNL enconverter is thus a proces-sor that automatically transforms annotations3Obtained with a Pentum III 1 GHz.4About 108.000 words extracted from the Web (end2000) concerning general newspaper (Le Monde) as wellas specialized domains such as economics (journal LesEchos), science (medecine, physics), law (project of law),etc.provided by the XIPF+ parser into UNL ex-pressions.4.2 Remarks on terminologyTo avoid ambiguity, we use the term ?depen-dency?
to indicate XIPF+ syntactic links of theform D(x,y) or D(x,y,z), as shown in Figure4, and the term ?feature?
to indicate linguis-tic information provided by the parser.
XIPF+provides twelve types of dependencies and morethan two hundred and fifty features, of the typesdescribed in section 3.3 (typographical, mor-phological, etc.
).As for UNL, we use the term ?rela-tion?
to denote a semantic link of the formlabel(UW1.attributes,UW2.attributes), asshown in Figure 2, while an ?attribute?
corre-sponds to a UNL annotation.
Such an annota-tion appears to the right of a UW and adds par-ticular linguistic information.
The UNL forma-lism provides about fourty relations and eightyattributes of different types.4.3 Generation of UNL expressionsThe first step of the enconvertion consists inidentifying the information provided by XIPF+that will be translated into UNL relations.There are three kinds of mapping rules perfor-ming this task, depending on the input and theresult of the transformation: a dependency gi-ving an attribute, a dependency giving a rela-tion, a feature giving a relation.4.3.1 Dependency to attribute.The first kind of mapping rules transforms aXIPF+ dependency into a UNL attribute.
Anexample is that of the relation CLE (the head ofa title).
Within UNL it becomes @title and itis included as an attribute of the UNL relationcontaining the head word of the title.The following example describes a title, itsanalysis with XIPF+ and its UNL encoversion:Le Forum Universel des Cultures54.3.2 Dependency to relation.The second kind of mapping rules transformsa XIPF+ dependency into a UNL relation.
Insome cases, this transformation is not straight-forward since a number of lexical and semanticfeatures are to be taken into account (and theyare not always provided by the parser).
This5The Universal Forum of CulturesCLE(Forum)NMOD POSIT1 RIGHT ADJ(Forum,Universel)NMOD POSIT1 NOUN INDIR(Forum,des,Cultures)DETERM CLOSED DEF NOUN DET(Le,Forum)<title> 0>GROUPE{NP{Le Forum} AP{Universel}PP{des NP{Cultures}} </title>mod(forum.@def.@entry.@title,universal(mod<thing))mod(forum.@def.@entry.
@title,culture(icl>abstract thing).@def.
@pl)Figure 5: Example of dependency to attributetransformation.is the case of dependencies with the verb to beand generally with all verbs denoting a state.While in the UNL formalism the verb to beis considered a copula and does not appearin the semantic representation, the parserproduces the syntactic dependencies in whichthe verb participates and marks the fact ofbeing a copula by means of features ([copula]as lexical feature and SPRED -predicative- assyntactic feature) as illustrated on the examplebelow :Le Forum est Universel.6SUBJ(e^tre,Forum)VARG ADJ SPRED(e^tre,Universel)aoj(Universal,Forum)Figure 6: Example of dependencies involvingthe verb to be and their corresponding UNL re-lation.In this case, an aoj relation shows the linkbetween the noun in the subject and the adjec-tive.
The parser?s feature permitting the iden-tification of a copula is thus crucial in order tomap precisely a SUBJ and a VARG into an agtand a obj or into a single aoj.Table 1 gives a summary of the principaltransformations performed by this second kindof mapping rules (as it is shown, in the caseof modification, two types of XIPF+ relationsproduce a UNL mod):6The Forum is Universal.SUBJ(X[be-],Y) agt(X,Y)VARG(X[be-],Y) obj(X,Y)SUBJ(X[be+],Y)VARG(X[be+],Z) aoj(Z,Y)NMOD(X,Y) or NN(X,Y) mod(X,Y)Table 1: XIPF+ dependencies producing UNLrelations.4.3.3 Feature to relation.The last type of mapping rules identifies parti-cular information encoded as features within theparser?s output and transforms them into UNLrelations with the appropriate words.
This isthe case for the notions of quantification andtime.Regarding quantification, this feature, en-coded within the dependency DETERM, is trans-formed to produce a qua UNL relation betweena determiner and a noun.As for the relations involving the notion oftime, the feature time encoded by XIPF+ istoo general.
Therefore, it is not possible toproduce the semantically precise UNL relationsexpressing variations of the concept of time(duration, final time, sequence, etc.).
In thiscase, we have chosen to create an intermediateUNL relation named time in order to keep thissemantic information.NMOD(X,Y,Z)DETERM(W[quant+],Z) qua(Z,W)NMOD(X,Y,Z[time+]) time(X,Z)Table 2: XIPF+ features producing UNL rela-tions.4.4 Accessing the UW baseAfter identifying the UNL relations, the encon-verter retrieves the UWs corresponding to eachFrench word in a relation.
UWs are containedinto a UW database of 37.901 French lemmas.The major difficulty here concerns ambiguity,that is, accessing the right acception, since thedatabase usually contains a list of UWs for agiven lemma.
The ambiguity can be semantic,when a French lemma corresponds to a singleEnglish lemma with different acceptions (cfFigure 1) or lexical, when a French lemmacorresponds to several English lemmas.
Hereis an example of lexical ambiguity with thepronoun il (?he?
or ?it?
in English) :[il] { CAT(CATR) } "he(icl>human)";[il] { CAT(CATR) } "it(icl>nonhuman)";Figure 7: Lexical ambiguity in Universal Words.To this date, as the lexico-semantic infor-mation provided by the parser is not enoughto choose the appropriate UW, the enconvertertakes the most general acception (that is, theword sense without a constraint list ?the lastentry in the list showed in Figure 1).
When allacceptions of an entry have such list of cons-traints, the enconverter chooses the first one.4.5 Enrichment with lexicalinformationThe final step of the enconversion enriches therough UNL expressions produced (UNL labelswith simplified UWs) with more complete mor-phological information.
A set of rules is thusspecialized in translating different linguistic fea-tures from the parser into UNL descriptors com-pleting the words in a relation.Some of this morphological information canalso be extracted from the UW base (gender).However, we have preferred to extract a maxi-mum of information from the parser because itproduces a contextual analysis of the words ap-pearing in a linguistic utterance.The features which enrich the UNL outputconcern definiteness (@def or @indef), num-ber (@sg or @pl) and tense (@past, @present,@fut).
A few labels (@ordinal, @complete ...)are absent on the XIPF+ output and thereforenot automatically enconverted in the UNL out-put.
Finally, the attribute @entry is systemati-cally added to UWs head of their sentence (theverb): agt, varg, aoj, etc.5 EvaluationA complete evaluation of a UNL enconvertershould take into account the following possiblekinds of errors:?
graphs with wrong linguistic information(semantic relations, attributes, etc.),?
missing information (incomplete graph dueto missing relations, incomplete decora-tions, etc.),?
graphs with wrong UWs (wrong acceptionor wrong lemma).Since in this article we want to emphasize theuse of an incremental robust parser for creatingan enconverter, we evaluated errors concerningsemantic relations7, thus the first and the se-cond points which correspond, respectively, toclassic evaluation metrics of precision and recallrates.The enconverter was tested against the first50 manually enconverted UNL graphs (1.059words) from a corpus of legal text.
The a-verage length of the sentences was about 21words (21,18).
The semantic relations evalu-ated in this preliminary experiment (322 UNLexpressions) were agt (44), obj (57) and mod(221).Table 3 gives the results obtained for theevaluation of this first version of the encon-verter :Relation Precision Recallagt(X,Y) 57 % 80 %obj(X,Y) 51 % 48 %mod(X,Y) 58 % 86 %Table 3: Results of the evaluation of the firstversion of the enconverter.For agents, most errors come from syntac-tic subjects correctly identified by the parserbut presenting semantic features that shouldhad been taken into account to create aoj rela-tions.
To give an example, in the sentence ?Laculture acquiert des formes diffe?rentes (...)?8,the parser extracts correctly the dependencysubj(acquire,culture) although it is seman-tically encoded as aoj(acquire,culture) inUNL because the verb ?acquire?
is consideredin this utterance as a verb of state.In the case of objects, errors on precisionconcern wrong scope of coordination as wellas objects being a whole sentence.
As forrecall, there are several constructions whichmay be considered obj from a semantic pointof view but that the parser identifies asmodifiers due to their surface constructionwith a preposition.
For example, ?sourcede creativite?
?9 is analyzed by the parser asmod(source,de,cre?ativite?)
although UNLencodes obj(source,creativity).
Likewise,7The presence or absence of the different attributeswas not evaluated.8Culture acquires different forms (...).9Source of creativity.
?vers l?acce?s de la diversite?
culturelle?10 is en-coded in UNL as obj(towards,access), a kindof relation that the parser does not extract.A final remark concerns modifiers.
As saidbefore, the parser is not deterministic in mark-ing modifiers: all possible combinations be-tween a head word and its dependents are ex-tracted.
That is the main reason why precisionis low and recall is high.The average of all these figures gives a globalevaluation of the enconverter corresponding toP = 56 % and R = 69 %.6 DiscussionAt this stage of the project, there are a numberof conclusions we can draw from the precedingevaluation.The first one is that the results are rather en-couraging in terms of a first rough enconvertionfrom syntactic XIPF+ information to UNL ex-pressions (agt, obj and mod).
However, we areaware that certain cases present considerabledifficulties.
For example, in addition to the ex-amples presented in the evaluation for verbs ofstate, subjects with a semantic feature of ?pa-tient?
are to be enconverted as obj and not assubj (unfortunately the semantic informationneeded for this transformation is not yet avail-able within the parser).
Thus in ?La re?unioncontinuera jusqu?a` ce soir.
?11 the parser ex-tracts a subj(continuer,re?union) that mightbe enconverted as obj(continue,meeting) inUNL.
All these kinds of complex transforma-tions including particular semantic features areat this point an important bottleneck for theenconverter.The second conclusion coming from the eva-luation (even if not quantitatively analyzed) isthat the choice of the UW remains a criticalpoint, as the enconverter has not the possibi-lity of choosing the correct acception giving aconfiguration.
One possibility to consider mightbe to introduce interactivity with a human tochoose the correct UW.
The second possibilityis related to the improval of the parser: we canconsider adding more linguistic information, inthe form of semantic classes or semantic fea-tures, in order to be able to disambiguate.
Ha-ving enriched the parser with these semanticfeatures, another possibility to improve the en-converter might be to consider statistical infor-mation about collocations.10Towards accessing cultural diversity.11The meeting will continue until this evening.Finally, we are conscious that there wouldstill remain several aspects which would demandto be improved within the parser itself : prepo-sitionnal attachment disambiguation, scope ofcoordination, complex coreference, etc.
Parti-cular strategies may be adapted to handle suchdifficulties individually (using statistical infor-mation, interactive disambiguation, etc.
).7 ConclusionIn this paper we have presented a mechanismfor automatically producing UNL expressionsusing the ouput of a robust parser.
After des-cribing the UNL formalism and presenting anincremental parser able to accurately processhuge amounts of data, we have shown how onecan transform the linguistic information pro-vided by the parser into UNL expressions.
Wehave also presented a first evaluation in an at-tempt to try to assess the performance of theenconverter.Our results show that there are still severalcrucial problems that we need to solve.
Ho-wever, taking into account that this is prelimi-nary work, the results already obtained are en-couraging and confirm the possibility of usingthe reliable linguistic information automaticallyobtained from an incremental robust parser tocreate a UNL semantic enconverter for hugeamounts of data.AcknowledgementsThe author wants to express her gratitude toE.
Blanc and A. Max, as well as to the threeanonymous reviewers, for their suggestions andcomments on a first draft of the paper.ReferencesS.
Abney.
1991.
Parsing by chunks.
InPrinciple-Based Parsing, edited by R.Berwick, S. Abney and C. Tenny, 257?278.Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Boston.S.
A?
?t-Mokhtar, J. P. Chanod, and C. Roux.2001.
A multi-input dependency parser.
InProceedings of International Workshop onParsing Technologies, IWPT-2001, 201-204.Beijing, China.S.
A?
?t-Mokhtar, J. P. Chanod, and C. Roux.2002.
Robustness beyond shallowness : In-cremental Deep Parsing.
Special Issue of theNatural Language Engineering Journal onRobust Methods in Analysis of Natural Lan-guage Data, vol.
8(3), 121?144, CambridgeUniversity Press.C.
Boitet, P. Guillaume, and M. Que?zel-Ambrunaz.
1982.
ARIANE-78, an integratedenvironment for automated translation andhuman revision.
In Proceedings of Conferenceon Computational Linguistics, COLING-82,19?27, Prague.T.
Dhanabalan, and T. V. Geetha.
2003.
UNLDeconverter for Tamil.
In International Con-ference on the Convergence of Knowledge,Culture, Language and Information Tech-nologies.
Alexandria, Egypt.N.
Gala.
Un mode`le d?analyseur syntaxiquerobuste fonde?
sur la modularite?
et la lexi-calisation de ses grammaires.
The`se de doc-torat, Universite?
de Paris-Sud, UFR scien-tifique d?Orsay, France.C.
Hage`ge, and C. Roux.
2002.
A Robustand Flexible Platform for Dependency Ex-traction.
In Proceedings of 3rd Conference onLanguage Ressources and Evaluation, LREC-2002, 520?523, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria,Spain.M.
Hong, and O. Streiter.
1999.
Overcom-ing the language barriers in the Web : theUNL-Approach.
In Multilingual Corpora :encoding, structuring, analysis.
11th AnnualMeeting of the German Society for Compu-tational Linguistics and Language Technolo-gies.. Frankfurt, Germany.K.
Jensen.
1992.
PEG: the PLNLP EnglishGrammar.
In Natural Language Processing :the PLNLP approach, edited by K. Jensen, G.Heidorn and S. Richardson.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers.
Boston.G.
Serasset, and C. Boitet.
2000.
On UNL asthe future ?html of the linguistic content?and the reuse of existing NLP componentsin UNL-related applications with the exampleof a UNL-French deconverter.
In Proceedingsof Conference on Computational Linguistics,COLING-2000.
Saarbruecken.P.
Tapanainen, and T. Jarvinen.
1997.
A non-projective dependency parser.
In Proceedingsof Conference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing, ANLP-97.
Washington.
