The Language of Bioscience:Facts, Speculations, and Statements in BetweenMarc LightLibrary and Information ScienceLinguistics DepartmentUniversity of IowaIowa City, IA 52242marc-light@uiowa.eduXin Ying QiuManagement SciencesUniversity of IowaIowa City, IA 52242xin-qiu@uiowa.eduPadmini SrinivasanLibrary and Information ScienceManagement SciencesUniversity of IowaIowa City, IA 52242padmini-srinivasan@uiowa.eduAbstractWe explore the use of speculative lan-guage in MEDLINE abstracts.
Resultsfrom a manual annotation experiment sug-gest that the notion of speculative sentencecan be reliably annotated by humans.
Inaddition, an experiment with automatedmethods also suggest that reliable auto-mated methods might also be developed.Distributional observations are also pre-sented as well as a discussion of possibleuses for a system that can recognize spec-ulative language.1 IntroductionThe scientific process involves making hypotheses,gathering evidence, using inductive reasoning toreach a conclusion based on the data, and then mak-ing new hypotheses.
Scientist are often not com-pletely certain of a conclusion.
This lack of definitebelief is often reflected in the way scientists discusstheir work.In this paper, we focus on expressions of levels ofbelief: the expressions of hypotheses, tentative con-clusions, hedges, and speculations.
?Affect?
is usedin linguistics as a label for this topic.
This is not awell-known topic in the field of text processing ofbioscience literature.
Thus, we present a large num-ber of examples to elucidate the variety and natureof the phenomena.
We then return to a discussionof the goals, importance, and possible uses of thisresearch.1.1 ExamplesThe sentences in the following box contain frag-ments expressing a relatively high level of specula-tion.
The level of belief expressed by an author isoften difficult to ascertain from an isolated sentenceand often the context of the abstract is needed.
Allexamples in the paper are from abstracts available atthe Nation Library of Medicine PubMed webpage(currently http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed/).The PubMed identifier is provided following eachsentence.Pdcd4 may thus constitute a useful moleculartarget for cancer prevention.
(1131400)As the GT box has also previously been shownto play a role in gene regulation of other genes,these newly isolated Sp2 and Sp3 proteins mightregulate expression not only of the TCR gene butof other genes as well.
(1341900)On the basis of these complementary results, ithas been concluded that curcumin shows veryhigh binding to BSA, probably at the hydropho-bic cavities inside the protein.
(12870844)Curcumin down-regulates Ki67, PCNA and mu-tant p53 mRNAs in breast cancer cells, theseproperties may underlie chemopreventive ac-tion.
(14532610)The next examples contain fragments that arespeculative but probably less so than those above.
(As we will discuss later, it is difficult to agree onlevels of speculation.)
The containing sentence doesAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Linking Biological Literature, Ontologies and Databases, pp.
17-24.HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop: Biolink 2004,provide some context but the rest of the abstract ifnot the full text is often necessary along with enoughknowledge of field to understand text.Removal of the carboxy terminus enables ERPto interact with a variety of ets-binding sitesincluding the E74 site, the IgH enhancer pisite, and the lck promoter ets site, suggestinga carboxy-terminal negative regulatory domain.
(7909357)In addition, we show that a component of theRas-dependent mitogen-activated protein kinasepathway, nerve growth factor-inducible c-Jun,exerts its effects on receptor gene promoter ac-tivity most likely through protein-protein inter-actions with Sp1.
(11262397)Results suggest that one of the mechanisms ofcurcumin inhibition of prostate cancer may bevia inhibition of Akt.
(12682902)The previous examples contain phrases such asmost likely and suggesting, which in these cases, ex-plicitly mark a level of belief less than 100%.
Thenext examples are not as explicitly marked: to dateand such as can also be used in purely definite state-ments.To date, we find that the signaling pathwaytriggered by each type of insult is distinct.
(10556169)However, the inability of IGF-1, insulin andPMA to stimulate 3beta-HSD type 1 expressionby themselves in the absence of IL-4 indicatesthat the multiple pathways downstream of IRS-1and IRS-2 must act in cooperation with an IL-4-specific signaling molecule, such as the tran-scription factor Stat6.
(11384880)These findings highlight the feasibility of mod-ulating HO-1 expression during hypothermicstorage to confer tissues a better protection tocounteract the damage characteristic of organtransplantation.
(12927811)The words may and might were both used to ex-press speculation in the examples above but are am-biguous between expressing speculation versus pos-sibility.
The examples above are speculative and thesentence below expresses a definite statement abouttwo possibilities.The level of LFB1 binding activity in adenoid-cystic as well as trabecular tumours shows somevariation and may either be lower or higherthan in the non-tumorous tissue.
(7834800)The sentence below involves the adjective puta-tive in an apositive noun phrase modifier, a differentsyntactic form that in the previous examples.
It alsoclearly shows that the speculative portion is oftenconfined to only a part of the information providedin a sentence.We report here the isolation of human zinc finger2 (HZF2), a putative zinc-finger transcriptionfactor, by motif-directed differential display ofmRNA extracted from histamine-stimulated hu-man vein endothelial cells.
(11121585)Of course, definite sentences also come in a vari-ety.
The definite sentences below vary in topic andform.Affinity chromatography and coimmunoprecipi-tation assays demonstrated that c-Jun and T-Agphysically interact with each other.
(12692226)However, NF-kappaB was increased at 3 h whileAP-1 (Jun B and Jun D) and CREB were in-creased at 15 h. (10755711)We studied the transcript distribution of c-jun,junB and junD in the rat brain.
(1719462)An inclusive model for all steps in the targetingof proteins to subnuclear sites cannot yet be pro-posed.
(11389536)We have been talking about speculative fragmentsand speculative sentences.
For the rest of the paper,we define a speculative sentence to be one that con-tains at least one speculative fragment.
A definitesentence contains no speculative fragments.
In thisstudy we only considered annotations at the sentencelevel.
However, in future work, we plan to work onsub-sentential annotations.1.2 Goals of our research on speculative speechand possible usesOur general goal is to investigate speculative speechin bioscience literature and explore how it might beused in HLT applications for bioscientists.
A morespecific goal is to investigate the use of speculativespeech in MEDLINE abstracts because of their ac-cessibility.There are a number of reasons supporting the im-portance of understanding speculative speech:?
it makes up a substantial portion of scientificprose (we estimate that 11% of sentences inMEDLINE abstracts contain speculative frag-ments),?
many researchers are interested in currenttrends and directions and speculations arelikely to be relevant,?
even if definite statements are of primary im-portance, knowing that a statement is not defi-nite, i.e.
speculative, is important.In the following, we expand upon these points in thecontexts of i) information retrieval, ii) informationextraction, and iii) knowledge discovery.In the context of information retrieval, an exam-ple information need might be ?I am looking forspeculations about the X gene in liver tissue.?
Oneof the authors spoke at a research department of adrug company and the biologists present expressedthis sort of information need.
On the other hand,one of the authors has also encountered the oppositeneed: ?I am looking for definite statements abouttranscription factors that interact with NF Kappa B.?Both these information needs would be easier to ful-fill if automated annotation of speculative passageswas possible.In the context of information extraction, a simi-lar situation exists.
For example, extracting tablesof protein-protein interactions would benefit fromknowing which interactions were speculative andwhich were definite.In the context of knowledge discovery (KR), spec-ulation might play a number of roles.
One possibil-ity would be to use current speculative statementsabout a topic of interest as a seed for the automatedknowledge discovery process.
For example, termscould be extracted from speculative fragments andused to guide the initial steps of the knowledge dis-covery process.
A less direct but perhaps even moreimportant use is in building test/train datasets forknowledge discovery systems.
For example, let usassume that in a 1985 publication we find a specu-lation about two topics/concepts A and C being re-lated and later in a 1995 document there is a definitestatement declaring that A and C are connected viaB.
This pair of statements can then form the basisof a discovery problem.
We may use it to test a KRsystem?s ability to predict B as the connecting as-pect between A and C and to do this using data priorto the 1995 publication.
The same example couldalso be used differently: KR systems could be as-sessed on their ability to make a speculation betweenA and C using data up to 1985 excluding the partic-ular publication making the speculation.
In this waysuch pairs of temporally ordered speculative-definitestatements may be of value in KR research.
Dif-ferentiating between speculative and definite state-ments is one part of finding such statement pairs.2 Related workWe know of no work specifically on speculativespeech in the context of text processing of bio-science literature.
However, some work on informa-tion extraction from bioscience literature has dealtwith speculative speech.
For example, (Friedman etal., 1994) discusses uncertainty and hedging in ra-diology reports and their system assigns one of fivelevels of certainty to extracted findings.Text processing systems in general have focused?factual?
language.
However, a growing number ofresearchers have started work on other aspects oflanguage such as expressing opinions, style of writ-ing, etc.
For example a human language technologyworkshop will be held this Spring entitled ?Explor-ing Attitude and Affect in Text: Theories and Ap-plications.?
(Qu et al, 2004).
Previous work alongthese lines includes (Wilson and Wiebe, 2003).
Thisresearch focuses on newswire texts and other textson the topic of politics and current events.There has been recent work on classifying sen-tences from MEDLINE abstracts for the categoriessuch as object, background, conclusions (McKnightand Srinivasan, 2003).
In addition, early work,(Liddy, 1988) built text grammars for empirical re-search abstracts categorized and assigned structureconcerning rhetorical roles of the sentences.
How-ever, none of this work addresses the speculative vs.definite distinction we are interested in.There has also been some work on construct-ing test sets for knowledge discovery.
Several re-searchers have used the discoveries by Swanson andSmalheiser to test their own algorithms.
The twoproblems most commonly used in replication stud-ies (e.g., (Weeber et al, 2001)) are their discov-ery of a link between Raynauds disease and fishoils (Swanson, 1986) and their discovery of severallinks between migraine and magnesium (Swanson,1988).
The most comprehensive replication to dateis (Srinivasan, 2004) which employs eight Swansonand Smalheiser discoveries as a test bed.In the remainder of the paper, we describe a man-ual annotation experiment we performed, give pre-liminary results on our attempts to automaticallyannotate sentences as containing speculative frag-ments, and conclude with comments on possible fu-ture work.3 Manual annotation experimentIn this experiment, four human annotators manuallymarked sentences as highly speculative, low specu-lative, or definite.Some of the questions we hoped to answer withthis experiment were: can we characterize what aspeculative sentence is (as demonstrated by goodinter-annotator agreement), can a distinction be-tween high and low speculation be made, how muchspeculative speech is there, where are speculativesentences located in the abstract, is there variationacross topics?The annotators were instructed to follow writtenannotation guidelines which we provide in appendixof this paper.
We wanted to explore how well the an-notators agreed on relatively abstract classificationssuch as ?requires extrapolation from actual findings?and thus we refrained from writing instructions suchas ?if the sentence contains a form of suggest, thenmark it as speculative?
into the guidelines.We chose three topics to work on and used thefollowing Pubmed queries to gather abstracts:?
?gene regulation?
AND ?transcription factor?AND 1900:2001[edat]?
(crohn?s disease OR crohn disease) AND com-plications[MeSH Subheading] AND hasab-stract[text] AND English[Lang] AND (ho-minidae[MeSH Terms] OR Human[MeSHTerms])?
turmeric OR curcumin OR curcumaThe first topic is gene regulation and is aboutmolecular biology research on transcription factors,promoter regions, gene expression, etc.
The secondtopic is Crohn?s disease which is a chronic relapsingintestinal inflammation and has a number of genes(CARD15) or chromosomal loci associated with it.The third topic is turmeric (aka curcumin), a spicewidely used in Asia and highly regarded for its cu-rative and analgesic properties.
These include thetreatment of burns, stomach ulcers and ailments, andvarious skin diseases.
There has been a surge of in-terest in curcumin over the last decade.Each abstract set was prepared for annotation asfollows: the order of the abstracts was randomizedand the abstracts were broken into sentences us-ing Mxterminator (Reynar and Ratnaparkhi, 1997).The following people performed the annotations:Padmini Srinivasan, who has analyzed crohns andturmeric documents for a separate knowledge dis-cover research task, Xin Ying Qiu, who is com-pletely new to all three topics, Marc Light, whohas some experience with gene regulation texts (e.g.,(Light et al, 2003)), Vladimir Leontiev, who is a re-search scientist in an anatomy and cell biology de-partment.
It certainly would have been preferable tohave four experts on the topics do the annotation butthis was not possible.The following manual annotations were per-formed:a.
63 gene regulation abstracts (all sentences) byboth Leontiev and Light,b.
47 gene regulation additional abstracts (all sen-tences) by Light,c.
100 crohns abstracts (last 2 sentences) by bothSrinivasan and Qiu,d.
400 crohns abstracts additional (last 2 sen-tences) by Qiu,e.
100 turmeric abstracts (all sentences) by Srini-vasan,f.
400 turmeric additional abstracts (last 2 sen-tences) by Srinivasan.The 63 double annotated gene regulation abstracts(set a) contained 547 sentences.
The additional ab-stracts (set b) marked by Light1 contained 344 sen-tences summing to 891 sentences of gene regula-tion abstracts.
Thus, there is an average of almost9 sentences per gene regulation abstract.
The 100turmeric abstracts (set e) contained 738 sentences.The other sets contain twice as many sentences asabstracts since only the last two sentences where an-notated.The annotation of each sentence was performed inthe context of its abstract.
This was true even whenonly the last two sentences where annotated.
Theannotation guidelines in the appendix were used byall annotators.
In addition, at the start of the exper-iment general issues were discussed but none of thespecific examples in the sets a-f.We worked with three categories Low Specula-tive, High Speculative, and Definite.
All sentenceswere annotated with one of these.
The general ideabehind the low speculative level was that the authorsexpressed a statement in such a way that it is clearthat it follows almost directly from results but notquite.
There is a small leap of faith.
A high specu-lative statement would contain a more dramatic leapfrom the results mentioned in the abstract.Our inter-annotator agreement results are ex-pressed in the following four tables.
The first tablecontains values for the kappa statistic of agreement(see (Siegel and Castellan, 1988)) for the gene regu-lation data (set a) and the crohns data (set c).
Threevalues were computed: kappa for three-way agree-ment (High vs. Low vs. Definite), two-way (Spec-ulative vs. Definite) and two-way (High vs. Low).Due to the lack of any sentences marked High inset c, a kappa value for High vs. low (HvsL) is notpossible.
Kappa scores between 0.6 and 0.8 are gen-erally considered encouraging but not outstanding.HvsLvsD SvsD HvsLgeneReg 0.53 0.68 0.03crohns 0.63 0.63 na1Pun intended.The following two tables are confusion matrices,the first for gene regulation data (set a) and the sec-ond for the crohns data (set c).H L DH 5 11 5L 10 26 19D 3 12 440H L DH 0 0 3L 0 14 3D 1 7 170If we consider one of the annotators as definingtruth (gold standard), then we can compute preci-sion and recall numbers for the other annotator onfinding speculative sentences.
If we choose Leon-tiev and Srinivasan as defining truth, then Light andQiu receive the scores below.precision recallLight 0.68 0.78Qiu 0.70 0.64As is evident from the confusion matrices, theamount of data that we redundantly annotated issmall and thus the kappa numbers are at best to betaken as trends.
However, it does seem that the spec-ulative vs. definite distinction can be made withsome reliability.
In contrast, the high speculation vs.low speculation distinction cannot.The gene regulation annotations marked by Light(sets a & b using only Light?s annotations) canbe used to answer questions about the position ofspeculative fragments in abstracts.
Consider thehistogram-like table below.
The first row refers tospeculative sentences and the second to definite.
Thecolumns refer to the last sentence of an abstract, thepenultimate, elsewhere, and a row sum.
The num-ber in brackets is the raw count.
Remember that thenumber of abstracts in sets a & b together is 100.last 2nd last earlier totalS 57%(57) 23%(23) 6%(45) 14%(125)D 43%(43) 77%(75) 94%(648) 86%(766)It is clear that almost all of the speculations cometowards the end of the abstract.
In fact the final sen-tence contains a speculation more often than not.In addition, consider the data where all sentencesin an abstract were annotated (sets a & b & e, us-ing Light?s annotation of a), there were 1456 defini-tive sentences (89%) and 173 speculative sentence(11%).
Finally, if we consider the last two sen-tences of all the data (sets a-f), we have 1712 defini-tive sentences (82%) and 381 speculative sentences(18.20%).4 Automatic classifier experimentWe decided to explore the ability of an SVM-based text classifier to select speculative sentencesfrom the abstracts.
For this the abstracts werefirst processed using the SMART retrieval system(Salton, 1971) in order to obtain representation vec-tors (term-based).
Alternative representations weretried involving stemming and term weighting (noweights versus TF*IDF weights).
Since results ob-tained were similar we present only results usingstemming and no weights.The classifier experiments followed a 10-foldcross-validation design.
We used SV Mlight pack-age2 with all settings at default values.
We ran ex-periments in two modes.
First, we considered onlythe last 2 sentences.
For this we pooled all handtagged sentences from the three topic areas (sets a-f).Second, we explored classification on all sentencesin the document (sets a,b,e).If we assume a default strategy as a simple base-line, where the majority decision is always made,then we get an accuracy of 82% for the classifica-tion problem on the last two sentences data set and89% for the all sentences data set.
Another baselineoption is to use a set of strings and look for them assubstrings in the sentences.
The following 14 stringswere identified by Light while annotating the generegulation abstracts (sets a&b): suggest, potential,likely, may, at least, in part, possibl, potential, fur-ther investigation, unlikely, putative, insights, pointtoward, promise, propose.
The automated systemthen looks for these substrings in a sentence and iffound, the sentence is marked as speculative and asdefinite if not.In the table below the scores for the three methodsof annotation are listed as rows.
We give accuracyon the categorization task and precision and recallnumbers for finding speculative sentences.
The for-mat is precision/recall(accuracy), all as percentages.The Majority method, annotating every sentence as2http://wwwai.cs.unidortmund.de/ SOFT-WARE/SVM LIGHT/svm light.html.endefinite, does not receive precision and recall values.The substring method was run on a subset of thedatasets where the gene regulation data (sets a&b)was removed.
(It performs extremely well on thegene regulation data due to the fact that it was devel-oped on that data.
)last2 allSVM 71/39(85) 84/39(92)Substr 55/80(87) 55/79(95)Majority (82) (89)Again the results are preliminary since the amountof data is small and the feature set we explored waslimited to words.
However, it should be noted thatboth the substring and the SVM systems performswell suggesting that speculation in abstracts is lex-ically marked but in a somewhat ambiguous fash-ion.
This conclusion is also supported by the factthat neither system used positional features and yetthe precision and recall on the all sentence data setis similar to the last two sentences data set.5 Conclusion and future workThe work presented here is preliminary but promis-ing.
It seems that the notion of speculative sen-tence can be characterized enabling manual anno-tation.
However, we did not manage to characterizethe distinction between high and low speculation.
Inaddition, it seems likely that automated systems willbe able to achieve useful accuracy.
Finally, abstractsseem to include a fair amount of speculative infor-mation.Future work concerning manual annotation wouldinclude revising the guidelines, throwing out theHigh vs. Low distinction, annotating more data, an-notating sub-sentential units, annotating the focus ofthe speculation (e.g., a gene), and annotating fulltext articles.
We are also ignorant of work in lin-guistics that almost certainly exists and may be in-formative.
We have started this process by consider-ing (Hyland, 1998) and (Harris et al, 1989).Future work concerning automatic annotation in-cludes expanding the substring system with moresubstrings and perhaps more complicated regular ex-pressions, expanding the feature set of the SVM, try-ing out other classification methods such as decisiontrees.Finally, we plan on building some of the applica-tions mentioned: a speculation search engine, tran-scription factor interaction tables with a specula-tion/definite column, and knowledge discovery testsets.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Vladimir Leontiev for histime and effort annotating gene regulation abstracts.In addition, we would like to thank David Eich-mann for his assistance with our database queries.We would also like to thank Lynette Hirschman forassistance with the title of this paper.
Finally, wewould like to thank the anonymous workshop re-viewers for their comments.ReferencesC.
Friedman, P. Alderson, J. Austin, J.J. Cimino, and S.B.Johnson.
1994.
A general natural-language text pro-cessor for clinical radiology.
Journal of the AmericanMedical Informatics Association, 1(2):161?174.Z.
Harris, M. Gottfried, T. Ryckman, P. Mattick, A. Dal-adier, T.N.
Harris, and S. Harris.
1989.
The Form ofInformation in Science : analysis of an immunologysublanguage.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.K.
Hyland.
1998.
Hedging in Scientific Research Arti-cles.
John Benjamins B.V.E.
D. Liddy.
1988.
The Discourse-Level Structure ofNatural Language Texts: An Exploratory Study of Em-pirical Abstracts.
Ph.D. thesis, Syracuse University.M.
Light, R. Arens, V. Leontiev, M. Patterson, X. Y. Qiu,and H. Wang.
2003.
Extracting transcription factor in-teractions from medline abstracts.
In Posters from the11th International Conference on Intelligent Systemsin Molecular Biology.
ISCB.L.
McKnight and P. Srinivasan.
2003.
Categorization ofsentence types in medical abstracts.
In Proceedings ofthe 2003 AMIA conference.Yan Qu, J. Shanahan, and J. M. Wiebe, editors.
2004.Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Symposium on Ex-ploring Attitude and Affect in Text: Theories and Ap-plications.
AAAI.
(to appear).J.
Reynar and A. Ratnaparkhi.
1997.
A maximum en-tropy approach to identifying sentence boundaries.
InProceedings of the Fifth Conference on Applied Natu-ral Language Processing, pages 16?19.
ACL.G.
Salton, editor.
1971.
The SMART Retrieval Sys-tem: Experiments in Automatic Document Processing.Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.S.
Siegel and N.J. Castellan.
1988.
NonparametricStatistics for the Behavioral Sciences.
McGraw-Hill.P.
Srinivasan.
2004.
Text mining: Generating hypothesesfrom medline.
Journal of the American Society forInformation Science and Technology.
(to appear).D.R.
Swanson.
1986.
Fish oil, raynaud?s syndrome, andundiscovered public knowledge.
Perspectives in Biol-ogy and Medicine, 30:7?18.D.R.
Swanson.
1988.
Migraine and magnesium: Elevenneglected connections.
Perspectives in Biology andMedicine, 31:526?557.M.
Weeber, H. Klein, L. Berg, and R. Vos.
2001.
Con-cepts in literature-based discovery: Simulating swan-son?s raynaud-fish oil and migraine-magnesium dis-coveries.
Journal of the American Society for Infor-mation Science, 52(7):548?557.T.
Wilson and J. Wiebe.
2003.
Annotating opinions inthe world press.
In Proceedings of the 4th SIGdialWorkshop on Discourse and Dialogue (SIGdial-03).Appendix: Annotation GuidelinesSome target uses for speculative sentence classifi-cation:?
a speculation search site that enables scientistsand health workers to find speculative state-ments about a topic of interest,?
a set of starting points for knowledge discoverysystems,?
a test set for knowledge discovery systems.The purpose of the guidelines below is to instructannotators on which sentences should be marked asspeculative.There are three possible annotations for a sen-tence: Low Speculative, High Speculative, and Def-inite.
All sentences should annotated with one ofthese.A sentence may be long and contain many sub-parts:?
if any part of it is High Speculative (HS), itshould be marked as HS,?
if it is not HS but a part of it is Low Speculative(LS), it should be marked as LS,?
otherwise it should be marked as Definite.It should also be mentioned that the intent of theauthor is what is relevant.
The annotator should tryto decide if the author meant the sentence as specu-lative or definite.
E.g., an annotator should not marka sentence as speculative, if the author intended thestatement to be definitive.Below are the definitions for the categories.?
Low Speculative (LS): A sentence fragment isLS if the author indicates that it receives di-rect support from the work presented but thereare other possible explanations for the results(as there always are in science).
However,the proposition (expressed in the sentence frag-ment) is a plausible if not likely explanation.?
High Speculative (HS): A sentence fragment isHS if the author indicates that it does not followfrom the work presented but could be extrapo-lated from it.
In other words the work providesindirect support for the proposition.?
Definite: A sentence fragment is definite if it isnot LS or HS.
Observations are generally Def-inite as are statements about methods, previouswork, etc.Below are tests that may be helpful for annotatingparticular sentences.?
If the sentence fragment implicitly suggests fu-ture experimentation, then it is likely to be HS.?
Paraphrased the sentence fragment using ?weconclude?, ?we observe?, or ?we know?.
Ifa contradiction or cognitive dissonance occursthen perhaps the fragment is speculative.
Thecontradiction will be analogous to that in ?wedefinitely believe that maybe there is a chance?.Below are a number of additional considerations.?
Our characterization of speculative speech ismeant to be broad enough to include state-ments that are not explicitly marked as specula-tions but are speculations made by the authorsnonetheless.
For example, we would considera proposal that some statement is true to be aspeculative sentence.?
Mentions of speculations made in previouswork should be considered speculations, e.g.,?It was recently proposed that ...?.
