Abstraction Summarization for Managing the BiomedicalResearch LiteratureMarcelo Fiszman Thomas C. Rindflesch Halil KilicogluLister Hill National Center for Biomedical CommunicationsNational Library of MedicineBethesda, MD 20894{fiszman|tcr|halil}@nlm.nih.govAbstractWe explore a semantic abstraction approachto automatic summarization in the biomedicaldomain.
The approach relies on a semanticprocessor that functions as the source inter-preter and produces a list of predications.
Atransformation stage then generalizes andcondenses this list, ultimately generating aconceptual condensate for a disorder inputtopic.
The final condensate is displayed ingraphical form.
We provide a set of principlesfor the transformation stage and describe theapplication of this approach to multidocumentinput.
Finally, we examine the characteristicsand quality of the condensates produced.1 IntroductionSeveral approaches to text-based information manage-ment applications are being pursued, including word-based statistical processing and those depending onstring matching, syntax, or semantics.
Statistical sys-tems have enjoyed considerable success for informationretrieval, especially using the vector space model (Sal-ton et al, 1975).
Since the SIR system (Raphael, 1968),some have felt that automatic information managementcould best be addressed using semantic information.Subsequent research (Schank, 1975; Wilks, 1976) ex-panded this paradigm.
More recently, a number of ex-amples of knowledge-based applications showconsiderable promise.
These include systems for ma-chine translation (Viegas et al, 1998), question answer-ing, (Harabagiu et al, 2001; Clark et al, 2003), andinformation retrieval (Mihalcea and Moldovan, 2000).In the biomedical domain, the MEDLINE?
biblio-graphic database provides opportunities for keepingabreast of the research literature.
However, the largesize of this online resource presents potential challengesto the user.
Query results often include hundreds orthousands of citations (including title and abstract).Automatic summarization offers potential help in man-aging such results; however, the most popular approach,extraction, faces challenges when applied to multi-document summarization (McKeown et al, 2001).Abstraction summarization offers an attractive alter-native for managing citations resulting from MEDLINEsearches.
We present a knowledge-rich abstraction ap-proach that depends on underspecified semantic inter-pretation of biomedical text.
As an example, a graphicalrepresentation (Batagelj, 2003) of the semantic predica-tions serving as a summary (or conceptual condensate)from our system is shown in Figure 1.
The input textwas a MEDLINE citation with title ?Gastrointestinaltolerability and effectiveness of rofecoxib versusnaproxen in the treatment of osteoarthritis: a random-ized, controlled trial.
?Figure 1.
Semantic abstraction summarizationOur semantic interpreter and the abstraction sum-marizer based on it both draw on semantic informationfrom the Unified Medical Language System?
(UMLS),?a resource for structured knowledge in the biomedicaldomain.
After introducing the semantic interpreter, wedescribe the transformation phase of our paradigm, dis-cussing principles that depend on semantic notions inorder to condense the semantic predications represent-ing the content of text.
Initially, this process was appliedto summarizing single documents.
We discuss its adap-tation to multidocument input, specifically to the set ofcitations resulting from a query to the MEDLINE data-base.
Although we have not yet formally evaluated theeffectiveness of the resulting condensate, we discuss itscharacteristics and possibilities as both an indicative andinformative summary.22.12.2BackgroundLexical SemanticsResearch in lexical semantics (Cruse, 1986) providesinsight into the interaction of reference and linguisticstructure.
In addition to paradigmatic lexical phenomenasuch as synonymy, hypernymy, and meronymy, diathe-sis alternation (Levin and Rappaport Hovav, 1996),deep case (Fillmore, 1968), and the interaction of predi-cational structure and events (Tenny and Pustejovsky,2000) are being investigated.
Some of the consequencesof research in lexical semantics, with particular attentionto natural language processing, are discussed by Puste-jovsky et al (1993) and Nirenburg and Raskin (1996).Implemented systems often draw on the informationcontained in WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998).In the biomedical domain, UMLS knowledge pro-vides considerable support for text-based systems.
(Burgun and Bodenreider (2001) compare the UMLS toWordNet.)
The UMLS (Humphreys et al, 1998) con-sists of three components: the Metathesaurus,?
Seman-tic Network (McCray, 1993), and SPECIALISTLexicon (McCray et al, 1994).
The Metathesaurus is atthe core and contains more than 900,000 concepts com-piled from more than sixty controlled vocabularies.Many of these have hierarchical structure, and somecontain meronymic information in addition to hy-pernymy.
Editors combine terms in the constituent vo-cabularies into a set of synonyms (cf.
WordNet?ssynsets), which constitutes a concept.
One term in thisset is called the ?preferred name?
and is used as theconcept name, as shown in (1).
(1) Concept: Dyspnea  Synonyms: Breath-lessness, Shortness of breath, Breathless, Diffi-culty breathing, Respiration difficulty, etc.In addition, each concept in the Metathesaurus is as-signed at least one semantic type (such as ?Sign orSymptom?
for (1)), which categorizes the concept in thebiomedical domain.
The semantic types available aredrawn from the Semantic Network, in which they areorganized hierarchically in two single-inheritance trees,one under the root ?Entity?
and another under ?Event?.The Semantic Network also contains semanticpredications with semantic types as arguments.
Thepredicates are semantic relations relevant to the bio-medical domain and are organized as subtypes of fiveclasses, such as TEMPORALLY_RELATED_TO andFUNCTIONALLY_RELATED_TO.
Examples are shown in(2).
(2)  ?Pharmacologic Substance?
TREATS ?Diseaseor Syndrome?, ?Virus?
CAUSES ?Disease orSyndrome?Lexical semantic information in the UMLS is dis-tributed between the Metathesaurus and the SemanticNetwork.
The Semantic Network stipulates permissibleargument categories for classes of semantic predica-tions, although it does not refer to deep case relations.The Metathesaurus encodes synonymy, hypernymy, andmeronymy (especially for human anatomy).
Synonymyis represented by including synonymous terms under asingle concept.
Word sense ambiguity is represented tosome extent in the Metathesaurus.
For example dis-charge is represented by the two concepts in (3), withdifferent semantic types.
(3) Discharge, Body Substance: ?Body Substance?Patient Discharge: ?Health Care Activity?The SPECIALIST Lexicon contains orthographic in-formation (such as spelling variants) and syntactic in-formation, including inflections for nouns and verbs andsub-categorization for verbs.
A suite of lexical accesstools accommodate other phenomena, including deriva-tional variation.SemRepOur summarization system relies on semantic predica-tions provided by SemRep (Rindflesch and Fiszman,2003), a program that draws on UMLS information toprovide underspecified semantic interpretation in thebiomedical domain (Srinivasan and Rindflesch, 2002;Rindflesch et al, 2000).
Semantic interpretation is basedon a categorical analysis that is underspecified in that itis a partial parse (cf.
McDonald, 1992).
This analysisdepends on the SPECIALIST Lexicon and the Xeroxpart-of-speech tagger  (Cutting et al, 1992) and pro-vides simple noun phrases that are mapped to conceptsin the UMLS Metathesaurus using MetaMap (Aronson,2001).The categorial analysis enhanced with Metathesau-rus concepts and associated semantic types provides thebasis for semantic interpretation, which relies on twocomponents: a set of ?indicator?
rules and an (under-specified) dependency grammar.
Indicator rules mapbetween syntactic phenomena (such as verbs, nominali-zations, and prepositions) and predicates in the Seman-tic Network.
For example, such rules stipulate that thepreposition for indicates the semantic predicate TREATSin sumatriptan for migraine.
The application of an indi-cator rule satisfies the first of several necessary condi-tions for the interpretation of a semantic predication.Argument identification is controlled by a partialdependency grammar.
As is common in such grammars,a general principle disallows intercalated dependencies(crossing lines).
Further, a noun phrase may not be usedas an argument in the interpretation of more than onesemantic predication, without license.
(Coordinationand relativization license noun phrase reuse.)
A finalprinciple states that if a rule can apply it must apply.Semantic interpretation in SemRep is not based onthe ?real?
syntactic structure of the sentence; howeverlinear order of the components of the partial parse iscrucial.
Argument identification rules are articulated foreach indicator in terms of surface subject and object.For example, subjects of verbs are to the left and objectsare to the right.
(Passivization is accommodated beforefinal interpretation.)
There are also rules for preposi-tions and several rules for arguments of nominaliza-tions.The final condition on the interpretation of an asso-ciative semantic predication is that it must conform tothe appropriate relationship in the Semantic Network.For example, if a predication is being constructed on thebasis of an indicator rule for TREATS, the syntactic ar-guments identified by the dependency grammar musthave been mapped to Metathesaurus concepts with se-mantic types that conform to the semantic arguments ofTREATS in the Semantic Network, such as ?Pharma-cologic Substance?
and ?Disease or Syndrome?.
Hy-pernymic propositions are further controlled byhierarchical information in the Metathesaurus (Rind-flesch and Fiszman, 2003).In processing the sentence in (4), SemRep first con-structs the partial categorical representation givenschematically in (5).
This is enhanced with semanticinformation from the Metathesaurus as shown in (6),where the corresponding concept for each relevant nounphrase is shown, along with its semantic type.
The finalsemantic interpretation for  (4) is given in (7).
(4) Mycoplasma pneumonia is an infection of thelung caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae(5) [[Mycoplasma pneumonia] [is] [an infection][of the lung] [caused] [by Mycoplasma pneumo-niae]](6) ?Mycoplasma pneumonia??
?Disease or Syn-drome??Infection??
?Disease or Syndrome??Lung??
?Body Part, Organ, or Organ Compo-nent?
?Mycoplasma pneumoniae???Bacterium?
(7) Mycoplasma Pneumonia ISA InfectionLung LOCATION_OF InfectionLung LOCATION_OF Mycoplasma PneumoniaMycoplasma pneumoniae CAUSES InfectionMycoplasma pneumoniae CAUSES My-coplasma Pneumonia33.1Automatic SummarizationAutomatic summarization is ?a reductive transformationof source text to summary text through content reduc-tion, selection, and/or generalization on what is impor-tant in the source?
(Sparck Jones, 1999).
Twoparadigms are being pursued: extraction and abstraction(Hahn and Mani, 2000).
Extraction concentrates on cre-ating a summary from the actual text occurring in thesource document, relying on notions such as frequencyof occurrence and cue phrases to identify important in-formation.Abstraction, on the other hand, relies either on lin-guistic processing followed by structural compaction(Mani et al, 1999) or on interpretation of the source textinto a semantic representation, which is then condensedto retain only the most important information asserted inthe source.
The semantic abstraction paradigm is attrac-tive due to its ability to manipulate information that maynot have been explicitly articulated in the source docu-ment.
However, due to the challenges in providing se-mantic representation, semantic abstraction has not beenwidely pursued, although the TOPIC system (Hahn andReimer, 1999) is a notable exception.Semantic Abstraction SummarizationWe are devising an approach to automatic summariza-tion in the semantic abstraction paradigm, relying onSemRep for semantic interpretation of source text.
Thetransformation stage that condenses these predications isguided by principles articulated in terms of frequency ofoccurrence as well as lexical semantic phenomena.We do not produce a textual summary; instead, wepresent the disorder condensates in graphical format.We first discuss the application of this approach tosummarizing single documents (full text research arti-cles on treatment of disease) and then consider its ex-tension to multidocument input in the form of biomedi-cal scientific abstracts directed at clinical researchers.The transformation stage takes as input a list ofSem3.2 TransformationIn the semantic abstraction paradigm the transformationb.
Connectivity: Also include ?useful?
additionalc.
Novelty: Do not include predications that thed.
Saliency: Only include the most frequently oc-Alth urrence (saliency) plays arol(relevance), a condensation process, identi-fiesders}{Disorders}isorders}ders}s ofsema generalization processandovelty) provides further condensation byelimtion phaseandn these principles are applied to the semanticpreRep predications and a seed disorder concept.
Theoutput is a conceptual condensate for the input concept.Before transformation begins, predications are subjectedto a focused word sense disambiguation filter.
Brandeddrug names such as Advantage (Advantage brand ofImidacloprid) and Direct (Direct type of resin cement),which are ambiguous with the more common meaningof their names, are resolved to their non-pharmaceuticalsense.stage condenses and generalizes, and in our approachthese processes are based on four general principles:a. Relevance: Include predications on the topic ofthe summarypredicationsuser already knowscurring predicationsough frequency of occe in determining predications to be included in thesummary, the other three principles depend crucially onlexical semantic information from the UMLS.
Thesefour principles guide the phases involved in creating asummary.Phase 1predications on a given topic (in this study, disor-ders) and is controlled by a semantic schema(Jacquelinet et al, 2003) for that topic.
The schema isrepresented as a set of predications in which the predi-cate is drawn from a relation in the UMLS SemanticNetwork and the arguments are represented as a ?do-main?
covering a class of concepts in the Metathesaurus(Disorders, for example).
{Disorders} ISA {Disor{Etiological process} CAUSES{Treatment} TREATS  {Disorders}{Body location} LOCATION_OF {D{Disorders} OCCURS_IN {Disorders}{Disorders} CO-OCCURS_WITH {DisorEach domain for the schema is defined in termantic categorization in the Semantic Network.
Forexample {Disorders} is a subset of the semantic groupDisorders (McCray et al, 2001) and contains the fol-lowing semantic types: ?Disease or Syndrome?, ?Neo-plastic Process?, ?Mental or Behavioral Dysfunction?,and ?Sign or Symptom?.
Although the schema is notcomplete, it represents a substantial amount of what canbe said about disorders.
Predications produced by Sem-Rep must conform to this schema in order to be in-cluded in the conceptual condensate; such predicationsare called ?core predications.
?Phase 2 (connectivity) isidentifies predications occurring in neighboringsemantic space of the core.
This is accomplished byretrieving all the predications that share an argumentwith one of the core predications.
For example, fromNaproxen TREATS Osteoarthritis, non-core predica-tions such as Naproxen ISA NSAID are included in thecondensate.Phase 3 (ninating predications that have a generic argument,as determined by hierarchical depth in the Metathesau-rus.
Arguments occurring less than an empirically de-termined distance from the root are considered toogeneral to be useful, and predications containing themare eliminated.
For example Pharmaceutical Prepara-tions TREATS Migraine is not included in the conden-sate for migraine because ?PharmaceuticalPreparations?
was determined to be generic.Phase 4 (saliency) is the final transformaits operations are adapted from TOPIC?s (Hahn andReimer, 1999) saliency operators.
Frequency of occur-rence for arguments, predicates, and predications arecalculated, and those occurring more frequently than theaverage are kept in the condensate; others are elimi-nated.Whedications produced by SemRep for a full-text articlewith 214 sentences (Lisse et al, 2003) concerned withcomparing naproxen and rofecoxib for treating os-teoarthritis, with respect to effectiveness and gastroin-testinal tolerability, the resulting condensate is given inFigure 2.
(The abstract for this article was summarizedin Figure 1.
)Figure 2.
Semantic abstraction summarizationof a journal article on osteoarthritis4 Multidocument SummarizationThe MEDLINE database, developed and maintained bythe N  than 12million citations (dating from the 1960?s to the present)d at the same time retaining differencesthatramework for de-termThresultsforEval ation, especially formult ev et al, 2003).It is usually classified as intrinsic (measures the qualitynd marked the predica-tionhsetational Library of Medicine, contains moredrawn from nearly 4,600 journals in the biomedical do-main.
Access is provided by a statistical informationretrieval system.
Due to the size of the database,searches often retrieve large numbers of items.
For ex-ample, the query ?diabetes?
returns 207,997 citations.Although users can restrict searches by language, dateand publication type (as well as specific journals), re-sults can still be large.
For example, a query for treat-ment (only) for diabetes, limited to articles published in2003 and having an abstract in English finds 3,621items; limiting this further to articles describing clinicaltrials still returns 390 citations.
We describe the adapta-tion of our abstraction summarization process to multi-document input for managing the results of searches inMEDLINE.Extending summarization to multidocument inputpresents challenges in removing redundancies acrossdocuments anmight be important.
One issue is devising a frame-work on which to compute similarities and differencesacross documents.
Radev (2000) defines twenty-fourrelationships (such as equivalence, subsumption, andcontradiction) that might apply at various structural lev-els across documents.
Sub-events (Daniel et al, 2003)and sub-topics (Saggion and Lapalme, 2002) also con-tribute to the framework used for comparing documentsin multidocument summarization.A particular challenge to multidocument summariza-tion in the extraction paradigm is determining whatparts of documents conform to the fining similarities and differences.
A recent study(Kan et al, 2001) uses topic composition from textheaders, but other studies in the extraction paradigm(Goldstein et al, 1999), extraction coupled with rhetori-cal structural identification (Teufel and Moens, 2002),and syntactic abstraction paradigms use  different meth-odologies (Barzilay et al, 1999; McKeown et al, 1999).Our semantic abstraction summarization systemnaturally extends to multidocument input with no modi-fication from the system designed for single documents.e disorder schema serves as the framework for identi-fying sub-topics, and predications retrieved across sev-eral documents must conform to its structure.Informational equivalence (and redundancy) is com-puted on this basis.
For example, all predications thatconform to the schema line {Treatment} TREATS{Disorders} constitute a representation of a subtopic inthe disorder domain.
Exact matches in this set constituteredundant information, and other types of relationshipscan be computed on the basis of partial matches.
Al-though we concentrate on similarities across documents,differences could be computed by examining predica-tions that are not shared among citations.We have begun testing our system applied to the re-sults of MEDLINE searches on disorders, concentratingon the most recent 300 citations retrieved.
Themigraine are represented graphically in Figure 3.Traversing the predicates (arcs) in this condensate pro-vides an informative summary of these citations.5 Evaluation and Resultsuation in automatic summarizidocument input, is  daunting (Radof the summary as related to the source documents) orextrinsic (how the summary affects some other task).Since we do not have a gold standard to compare thefinal condensates against, we performed a linguisticevaluation on the quality of the condensates generatedfor four diseases: migraine, angina pectoris, Crohn?sdisease, and pneumonia.
The input for each summarywas 300 MEDLINE citations.Table 1 presents evaluation results.
The first author(MF) examined the source sentence that SemRep usedto generate each predication as as either correct or incorrect.
Precision was calcu-lated as the total number of correct predications dividedby the total number of predications in the condensate.We also measured the reduction (compression) foreach of the four disorder concepts.
In Table 1, ?Base?
isthe number of predications SemRep produced from eacof 300 citations.
?Final?
is the number of predica-tions left after the final transformation.
Therefore, this isa compression ratio on the semantic space of predica-tions, and is different from text compression in the tradi-tional sense.Concept Base Final C I PrecisionMigraine 2485 102 72 30 71%A 3 8iangina 2989 41 3  80%Crohn?s 3077 135 71 64 53%Pneumon 2694 28 27 1 96%Total 11245 306 203 103 66%Table 1. ts the f di ser  = rIn Crohn?s disease (with lowest precision) a singleSemfor 52% of th ocessing thesenResul  for our sea conceptsC = Co rect, I Incor ectRep error type in  argument identification accountse mistakes.
For example in prtence 36 patients with inflammatory bowel disease(11 with ulcerative colitis and 25 with Crohn?s disease),the parenthesized material caused SemRep to incor-rectly  returned ?Inflammatory Bowel Diseases CO-OCCURS_WITH Ulcerative Colitis?
and ?UlcerativeColitis predicate CO-OCCURS_WITH Crohn?s Dis-ease.?
Word sense ambiguity also contributed to a largenumber of errors.6 Content CharacterizationWe sformation stagehas and predicationsduring the summarization process.
SemRep producedS_IN;andpes in the finalconhefinnitially parsed, only 63 are represented intheo far do not accommodate.
Some ofthelusion and Future DirectionsWe ractionsummarization that produces conceptual condensates forcondensate to the text that produced them.
Wealsional Library of MedicineRe01.
Effective mapping of biomedicalLS Metathesaurus: The MetaMap pro-Baedi-Bae context of multi-document summa-Buand semantic classes in WordNet and theClto text meaning processing.
Pro-Crge.examined the effect that  the tranon the distribution of predicates2,485 predications from 300 citations retrieved for mi-graine.
Of these, 1,638 are distributed over four predi-cates in the disorder schema (327?TREATS; 148?ISA;180?LOCATION_OF; 54?CAUSES; 720?OCCURS_IN; and 209?CO-OCCURS_WITH).After phases 1, 2, and 3 of the transformation proc-ess, 311 predications remain (134?TREATS; 41?ISA;12?LOCATION_OF; 5?CAUSES; 68?OCCUR51?CO-OCCURS_WITH).
This reduction is largelydue to hierarchical pruning in phase 3.Phase 4 operations, based on frequency of occur-rence pruning (saliency), further condensed the list, andthe top three TREATS predication tydensate are (13?Sumatriptan TREATS Migraine; 6?Botulinum Toxins TREATS Migraine; and 6?feverfewextract TREATS Migraine).
This list represents the factthat Sumatriptan is a popular treatment for migraine.Besides frequency, another way of looking at thepredications is typicality (Kan et al, 2001), or distribu-tion of predications across citations.
Looking at tal condensate for migraine and focusing on TREATS,the most widely distributed predications are  ?Sumatrip-tan TREATS Migraine,?
which occurs in  ten citations;?Botulinum Toxins TREATS Migraine?
(three cita-tions); and  ?feverfew extract TREATS Migraine?
(twocitations).One can also view the final condensate from the per-spective of citations, rather than predications.
Of the300 citations ifinal condensate, one with six predications, one withfive predications, three with four predications, and soon.
It is tempting to hypothesize that more highly rele-vant citations will have produced more predications, butthis must be formally tested in the context of the user?sretrieval objective.An informal examination of the citations that con-tributed to the final condensate for migraine revealeddifferences that we sse, such as publication and study type, could be ad-dressed outside of natural language processing withMEDLINE metadata.
Others, including medication de-livery system and target population of the disordertopic, are amenable to current processing either throughextension of the disease schema or enhancements toSemRep.7 Concpropose a framework based on semantic abstdisorder topics that are both indicative and informative.The approach uses a biomedical semantic processor asthe source interpreter.
After semantic interpretation, aseries of transformations condense the predications pro-duced, and a final condensate is displayed in graphicalform.In the future, we would like to link the predicationsin theo plan to evaluate the effectiveness of this approachin retrieving useful articles for clinical researchers.
Fi-nally, we would like to investigate additional ways ofvisualizing the condensates.Acknowledgements The first author was supportedby an appointment to the Natsearch Participation Program administered by theOak Ridge Institute for Science and Education throughan inter-agency agreement between the U.S. Departmentof Energy and the National Library of Medicine.ReferencesAronson AR.
20text to the UMgram.
Proceedings of the AMIA Symp, pp 17-21.tagelj AM.
2003.
Pajek - Analysis and Visualizationof Large Networks.
In M. J?nger and P. Mutzel,tors, Graph Drawing Software.
Springer Verlag, Ber-lin, pp 77-103.rzilay R, McKeown KR, Elhadad M. 1999.
Informa-tion fusion in thrization.
Proceedings of the 37th Annual Meeting ofthe Association of Computational Linguistics, pp550-557.rgun A, Bodenreider O.
2001.
Comparing terms,concepts,Unified Medical Language System.
Proceedings ofthe NAACL Workshop on WordNet and Other LexicalResources: Applications, Extensions and Customiza-tions, pp 77-82.ark P, Harrison P, Thompson J.
2003.
A knowledge-driven approachceedings of the HLT-NAACL Workshop on TextMeaning, pp 1-6.use DA.
1986.
Lexical semantics.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, CambridCutting D, Kupiec J, Pedersen J, Sibun P. 1992.
A prac-tical part-of-speech tagger.
Proceedings of the ThirdDamarization.
Proceedings of HLT-Fi.Fetrac-Ha6.erators forHaHuSystem:Jaeux P. 2003.
Developing theKaon forLement realization.
unpublished ms.B,MMd Intelligent Systems.
Law-Mts.Mhniruk A, Pate V,Mtion Man-M.
Proceedings of the Annual Symp ComputMt 1):216-20.w Mexico State Univer-PuLinguistics, 19:331-58.e, pp 33-145.st ACLRaCelebi A, Liu D, Drabek E. 2003.
Evaluation chal-Conference on Applied Natural Language Process-ing, pp 133-40.niel N, Radev D, Allison T. 2003.
Sub-event basedmulti-document sumNAACL Workshop on Text Summarization, pp 9-16.llmore CJ.
1968.
The case for case.
In E. Bach andRT.
Harms, editors, Universals in Linguistic TheoryHolt Rinehart and Winston, New York, pp 1-88.llbaum C. 1998.
WordNet: An Electronic Lexical Da-tabase.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MAGoldstein J, Mittal V, Carbonell J, Kantrowitz M. 2000.Multi-document summarization by sentence extion.
Proceedings of the ANLP/NAACL Workshop onAutomatic Summarization, pp 40-48.hn U, Mani I.
2000.
The challenges of automaticsummarization.
Computer, 33(11):29-3Hahn U, Reimer U.
1999.
Knowledge-based text sum-marization: salience and generalization opknowledge base abstraction.
In I. Mani and MT.Maybury, editors, Advances in Automatic Text Sum-marization.
MIT Press, Cambridge, pp 215-32.rabagiu S, Moldovan D, Pasca M, Mihalcea R,Surdeanu M, Bunescu R; Girju R, Rus V, MorarescuP.
2001.
The role of lexico-semantic feedback inopen-domain textual question-answering.
Proceed-ings of the 39th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pp 274-81.mphreys BL, Lindberg DA, Schoolman HM, BarnettGO.
1998.
The Unified Medical LanguageAn informatics research collaboration.
J Am Med In-form Assoc, 5(1):1-11.cquelinet C, Burgun A, Delamarre D, Strang N, Djab-bour S, Boutin B, Le Bontological foundations of a terminological systemfor end-stage diseases, organ failure, dialysis andtransplantation.
Int J Med Inf, 70(2-3):317-28.n M, McKeown KR, Klavans JL.
2001.
Domain-specific informative and indicative summarizatiinformation retrieval.
Workshop on Text Summariza-tion (DUC3).vin B, Rappaport Hovav M. 1996.
From lexical se-mantics to arguLisse JR, Perlman M, Johansson G, Shoemaker JR,Schechtman J, Skalky CS, Dixon ME, Polis AMollen AJ, Geba GP.
2003.
Gastrointestinal toler-ability and effectiveness of rofecoxib versusnaproxen in the treatment of osteoarthritis: a random-ized, controlled trial.
Ann Intern Med, 139(7):539-46.ani I, Gates B, Bloedorn E. 1999.
Improving summa-ries by revising them.
Proceedings of the 37th An-nual Meeting of the Association of ComputationalLinguistics, pp 558-65.cDonald DD.
1992.
Robust partial parsing throughincremental, multi-algorithm processing.
In PS Ja-cobs, editor, Text-baserence Erlbaum Associates, New Jersey, pp 83-99.cKeown KR, Klavans JL, Hazivassiloglou V, Barzi-lay R., Eskin E. 1999.
Towards multidocument sum-marization by reformulation: progress and prospecProceedings of the Sixteenth National Conference onArtificial Intelligence, pp 453-60.cKeown HR, Chang, SF, Cimino J, Feiner SK,Friedman C, Gravano L, Hatzivassiloglou V, JohnsonS,  Jordan DA, Klavans JL, KusTeufel S. 2001.
PERSIVAL, a system for personal-ized search and summarization over multimediahealthcare information.
JCDL, pp 331-40.cCray AT.
1993.
Representing biomedical knowledgein the UMLS Semantic Network.
High-PerformanceMedical Libraries: Advances in Informaagement for the Virtual Era.
Meckler Publishing, pp45-55.cCray AT, Srinivasan S, Browne AC.
1994.
Lexicalmethods for managing variation in biomedical termi-nologiesAppl Med Care, pp:235-9.cCray AT, Burgun A, Bodenreider O.
2001.
Aggre-gating UMLS semantic types for reducing conceptualcomplexity.
Medinfo, 10(PMihalcea R, Moldovan D. 2000.
Semantic indexingusing WordNet senses.
Proceedings of the ACLWorkshop on IR and NLP.Nirenburg S, Raskin V. 1996.
Ten choices for lexicalsemantics.
Memoranda in Computer and CognitiveScience.
MCCS-96-304.
Nesity.stejovsky J., Bergler S, Anick P. 1993.
Lexical se-mantic techniques for corpus analysis.
Computa-tionalRaphael B.
1968.
SIR: Semantic information retrieval.In Minsky, M.
(ed.)
Semantic Information Process-ing.
The MIT Press, CambridgRadev D. 2000.
A Common theory of information fu-sion from multiple text sources, step one: cross-document structure.
Proceedings of 1SIGDIAL Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue.dev D, Teufel S, Saggion H, Lam W, Blitzer J, Qi H,lenges in large-scale multi-document summarization:the MEAD project.
Proceedings of ACL.Rindflesch TC, Bean CA, Sneiderman CA.
2000.
Ar-gument identification for arterial branching predica-tions asserted in cardiac catheterization reports.Proceedings of the AMIA Symp, pp 704-8.:462-77.SalSri ring text miningSp tomatic summarizing: factorsScPublishing Co, Amster-TeExperiments with relevance and rhetoricalTedi-Viicative Forms inWcs: An in-Advances in Automatic Text Summarization.
MITPress, Cambridge, pp 1-13.hank RC.
1975.
Conceptual information processing.Amsterdam.
North-Hollanddam,ufel S, Moens M. 2002.
Summarizing scientific arti-cles -Rindflesch TC, Fiszman M. 2003.
The interaction ofdomain knowledge and linguistic structure in naturallanguage processing: interpreting hypernymic propo-sitions in biomedical text.
J Biomed Infor, 36status.
Computational Linguistics, 28(4):409-445.nny C, Pustejovsk J.
2000.
A history of events in lin-guistic theory.
In C. Tenny and J. Pustejovsky, etors, Events as Grammatical Objects, CSLIPublications, Stanford, pp 3-37.egas E, Mahesh K, Nirenburg  S. 1998.
Semantics inaction.
In P. St. Dizier, editor, PredSaggion H, Lapalme G. Generating indicative-informative summaries with SumUM.
2002.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 28(4):497-526.ton G, Wong A, Yang CS.
1975.
A vector spaceNatural Language and in Lexical Knowledge Bases.Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht.ilks YA.
1976.
Parsing English II.
In E. Charniak andY.
Wilks, editors, Computational semantimodel for automatic indexing.
Communications ofthe ACM, (18):613-20.nivasan P, Rindflesch T. 2002.
Explofrom MEDLINE.
Proceedings of the AMIA Symp, pp722-6.arck Jones K. 1999.
Autroduction to artificial intelligence and natural lan-guage comprehension.
North Holland PublishingCompany, Amsterdam, pp 155-84.
.and directions In I. Mani and MT.
Maybury, editors,Figure 3.
Semantic abstraction summarization on citations retrieved for migraine.
Arrow thickness re-flects redundant information (i.e.
informational equivalence of sentences across multiple documents)
