Language Resources for the Semantic Web ?
perspectives for MachineTranslation ?Cristina VERTANNatural Language Systems Division, University of HamburgVogt-K?lln Strasse 3022527 Hamburg, Germanycri@nats.informatik.uni-hamburg.deAbstractIn this paper we present a possible solution forimproving the quality of on-line translationsystems, using mechanisms and standards fromSemantic Web.
We focus on Example basedmachine translation and the automatization of thetranslation examples extraction by means of RDF-repositories.1.
IntroductionMachine Translation  (MT) was nominated on thefirst place among the 10 emerging technologieswho will change the world (Technical Review2004).
It is expected that with the increasednumber of official language in Europe, and thecontinuous growth of non-English Internetresources, machine translation systems willbecome an indispensable tool in everyday work.For the moment high-quality MT-systems are onone hand expensive and on the other hand domainoriented.
The on-line existent tools produce poor-quality translation, and very often offer a falseimage of current translation engines capabilities.The main reason why on-line machine translationtools offer so poor results is that they rely eitheron corpus-based methods trained on a limitednumber of examples or they infer rules from alimited linguistic knowledge base (Gaspari 2002).Following the statistics published in(McLaughlin and Schwall 1998) already in 1998there were at least 25 countries with more than500 000 Internet users, and in at least half of thesecountries English is neither the first nor thesecond spoken language.
This statistic showsclearly that access to on-line information can beguaranteed only through high-quality on-linemachine translation tools.
However, an on-linetranslation system has a number of specificrequirements (i.e.
different from the ?traditional?ones):- It has to be fast but not always perfect.The translation of web-documents is morea kind of ?translation for assimilation?
inthe Carbonell?s classification  (Carbonell1994).
However it has to go beyond theword-to-word quality offered by theactual on-line systems- A large number of languages / pair oflanguages have to be covered- The system has to be a ?fully integratedblack box?.
Most part of the users do nothave the expertise to tune differentparameters.There are different approaches to automatictranslation, however not all of them are suited tobe used for on-line translation.1.
Rule-based MT systems are based oncomplex linguistic modules both in theanalysis and generation phase(morphology, syntax, semantics,pragmatics).
Such modules are developedfor only few languages and they are notcommercially ?free available.
Theimplementation of such modules requiresdeep linguistic knowledge in bothlanguages (especially for the transferrules)2.
Knowledge-based MT systems arestrongly domain dependent and rely ondomain-specific ontologies.
Most part ofthe ontologies were developed previouslyonly for commercial products, andtherefore are not free available3.
Corpus-based MT systems (example ?based and statistical-based) are youngeron the market, and provide goodtranslation quality, especially forassimilation purposes.
They are based onlarge parallel aligned corpora, or ontranslation databases.
In the first caseconsiderable amount of text is alignedusually at the paragraph level; in the lattertranslation chunks are collected (usuallythe chunks are sentences or even smallerunits.
)Most part of the currently existent on-linetranslation systems adopt a very simplistic rule-based approach, i.e.
the translation is reduced todictionary look-up followed by a morphologicalprocessing, and very simple syntactic transferrules.Within the Semantic Web activities it isassumed that a big amount of internet resourceswill be semantically annotated.
This opens newperspectives for the corpus-based MT Systems,and makes them a serious candidate for on-linetranslation.This paper is organised as follows: in section2 we present the main principles of semantic web.In section 3 we describe a type of MT-Systemwho can benefit from the Semantic Web activities.and show how Semantic Web technologies can beused to improve the quality of on-line MachineTranslation systems.
In section 4 we presentdirections of future work.2.
The Semantic WebFollowing the definition of Tim-Berners-Lee,?The Semantic Web will bring structure to themeaningful content of the web pages, creating anenvironment where software agents roaming frompage to page can readily carry out sophisticatedtasks for users?
(Berners-Lee and Hendler andLasilla 1999)The WWW, was developed for humans;the documents on the web are machine readablebut not machine understandable.
The main aim ofSemantic Web is to  enrich documents withsemantic information about the content and todevelop powerful mechanisms capable ofinterpreting this information.
These goals areachieved through implementation of models,standards as well as annotation of resources at thefollowing layers (Berners-Lee 2003) presented inFigure 1:Figure 1 .
Layer ?cake architecture of  SemanticWeb (from Tim-Berners-Lee)Unicode and URI?s are the basic ?bricks?
in thisschema, the first ensuring internationalization, thelatter unique identification of any resource on theWeb.
XML together with its syntactic validationlanguage XMLschema and the Name Spacesmechanism are the standard way of encodingresources.
However XML tags cannot describecontents of documents.
Therefore RDF (ResourceDescription Framework) model has to be used,and the concepts used for semantic descriptionhave to be organised in ontologies.
Inference onthese concepts are made at the Logic  and Prooflevels.For the purposes of this article we willconcentrate on the Data-levels, i.e.
annotations ofdocuments (RDF)  and  structure of the semanticinformation (Ontologies)2.1.
Document annotation with RDFThe Resource Description Framework (RDF) [isan entity relationship model used for representinginformation about resources in the World WideWeb.
The main principle is that everything on theweb can be unique identified with URI?s(Uniforme Resource Identifier) and then describedin terms of triples representing the resources, theirproperties and values.
For the purposes ofSemantic Web the serialization was done in XML;in this way the model benefits also from theNamespace property of XML and the RDFproperties can be unique identified, independentof the users2.2.
Ontologies for Semantic WebOntology, a well-known Knowledge-Representation mechanism  was rediscoveredfor the purposes of Semantic Web.
The RDFproperties can be organised in classes andsubclasses, with attributes and values.Languages as RDFS, DAML+OIL, orrecently OWL, permit complete description ofcomplicated ontological relations betweenRDF properties, in an RDF/XML format.
Forthe moment there are  already hundreds ofSemantic Web ontolgies for differentdomains, most part of them free available.3.
On-line Machine Translation and theSemantic WebIn this section we will explain first the mainprinciples of example-based machine translation.Then we will have a closer look on how it canbenefit from the Semantic Web activities.3.1.
Example-based Machine Translation(EBMT)The basic idea in EBMT is quite simple: for thetranslation of a sentence previous translationexamples are used.
The main assumption behindthis idea is that many translations are simplemodifications of previous translations[CarlWay03].
In contrast with the translationmemories, the selection between more possibletranslations is completely automatic.A typical EBMT System is based on the followingcomponents (Trujillo 1999)1.
A database of aligned sentences in thesource and target languages.
The contentsof the database, as well as its dimensionare essential for the quality of theselection.
The examples have to bedomain-relevant, long enough to capturespecific particularities of a constructionand short enough to be retrieved incommon texts2.
A matching algorithm that identifies theexamples that most closely resemble all orpart of the input sentence3.
A combination algorithm which rebuildsthe input sentence, through a combinationof retrieved fragments4.
A transfer and composition algorithm thatextracts corresponding target fragmentsand combines them into  a sentence in thetarget language.It turned out that information about the syntacticstructure of the fragments in both languages aswell as pattern transfer rules, can improvesignificantly the performance of the example-based MT system.[Carlway03].
Therefore it isquite usual that the example database contains,together with parallel aligned strings, alsosyntactic structures and their correspondences.3.2.
Language Resources for Semantic Weband their role in Machine TranslationBetween the main activities in the Semantic Webat the moment we encounter:- the description and annotation of a largenumber of web resources following theRDF model- the creation of repositories of RDFproperties, organised in  ontologies.Every resource (document piece of document oreven sentence) is described via a triple (Subject,Predicate, Object).
All three elements of the triplerefer to the logical structure of the resource andnot the syntactic one.
It is expected that in thenear future, a big part of the documents in Internetwill be annotated following the RDF model.Machine Translation, and in particularExample-based Machine Translation can makeuse of these additional annotations for threepurposes:1.
For the achievement of parallel alignedcorpora.
Small languages still suffer fromlack of linguistic resources, and especiallymultilingual resources.
On-linedocuments are main source for machine-readable corpora, however, with fewexceptions (explicitly translations of thesame Web page) it is difficult todetermine automatically which part of adocument is a translation of anotherdocument.
RDF annotations can be usedfor such purposes2.
For Example based rough translation: Asmentioned in section 1 on-line translationis made for assimilation purposes,therefore, meaning preservation is muchmore important as an exact translation.RDF model aims to enrich documentswith information about their content.
Thiscan help in the process of ?example basedrough translation?.
Until now, the trials inthis field were done only on the basis ofretrieval and translation of content-words[ShimhataSumitaMatsumoto03].3.
For disambiguation: the current examplebased translation systems make use onlyof syntactic annotation.
These can beinsufficient in disambiguation cases likethe following:Let us assume that we have in the database oftranslation examples:Gro?e Besonderheiten ?
importantpeculiaritiesGro?e St?dte ?
big citiesThe translation choice for gro?e  Schl?
?eras important castles or big castles is contextdepending.
For the moment the disambiguation isdone only statistical.
Semantic annotation of theexamples , as well as the input text would increasethe translation accuracy.
This makes senseespecially for translation of on-line resourceswhich are supposed to be  correspondinglyannotatedAlthough the advantages of SemanticWeb annotations (in particular RDF-model) aretransparent from the points mentioned above, themain question which arises isWho will decide which semantic informationhas to be included, at what level (sentence/paragraph/document), and in whichlanguage?Following information is needed for increasingthe translation quality :- translation equivalents of words/expressions- transfer rules for syntactic structures- semantic classes for the candidatesolutions.The main problem to be solved is the consistencybetween different RDF annotations correspondingto different users.
Let us assume that in theGerman text the annotation for Gro?e St?dte  is .<rdf.description rdf.
about:?http?..><user1: Messung > Gro?e  </user1:Messung >and in the English one<rdf.description rdf.
about:?http?..><user2: size >big</user2: size >A relationship between ?size?
and ?Messung?
hasto be established showing that they refer to thesame concept.
This has to be done via mapping onan ontology.
The main challenge in the design ofontologies with multilingual instances is that, veryoften words in one language overlap concepts inthe ontology, and there is no one-to-one mappingto the meaning in the other languageThe architecture in figure 2 proposes aframework for extracting translationcorrespondences, taking into account their RDFannotations.
We propose the organisation of theRDF annotation scheme in two parts: syntacticannotation and semantic annotation.
The conceptsto be instantiated for this annotations will beorganised in two correspondent ontologies.Figure 2: Extraction of Translation Equivalentsfrom RDF annotated texts.Assuming that input is a text A in language L1, asearch process will identify fragments from A inthe translation database and obtain  one or moretranslations, namely Texts B1, B2,?Bn.
Duringthe next step the RDF descriptions of the inputtext and the translation candidates are comparedby mapping the RDF annotations on the syntacticand semantic ontology, and the most similar oneis chosen as output.At the University of Hamburg we arecurrently implementing this schema within aDemo-System for German and English texts, intourist domain.
Approximately 30 documents inboth languages are currently annotated withlinguistic properties in RDF format, mapped on asyntactic respectively semantic ontology.4.
Conclusions and Further WorkIn this article we presented the main principles ofsemantic Web as well as its possible contributionsto the improvement of on-line translation systems.A solution for automatic extraction of translationexamples from RDF-annotated texts is alsopresented.
However the architecture supposes theexistence of the repositories for syntactic andsemantic annotations as well as the bothontologies.
In order to ensure the viability of theprinciple for on-line translation systems, suchrepositories have to be created for differentlanguages, texts have to be annotated and theontologies have to cover a broad spectrum  oflinguistic phenomena.After the complete implementation of thedemo system we intend to perform an evaluationof the translation quality, and to analyse also theaccuracy of the extraction mechanism,ReferencesT.
Berners-Lee 2003, Foreword to ?Spinning theSemantic Web-Bringing the World wide Web tIts Full Potential?, in  D. Fensel, D., J. Hendler,,H.Lieberman, and W. Wahlster, (eds.
), MITPress, 2003T.
Berners-Lee, and J. Hendler, and O. Lasilla,1999, ?The Semantic Web?, ScientificAmerican, 1999J.
Carbonell 1994,  Slides of a tutorial on MTSaarbr?cken 1994. unpublishedA-Way,  and M. Carl 2003, ?Introduction toExample-based machine Translation?, KluwerAcademic Press, 2003F.
Gaspari 2002 ?Using free on-line services inMT teaching,?
in  Proceedings of the 6th EAMTWorkshop on Teaching Machine Translation,November 14-15, 2002, Manchester, pp.145-153TextASearch oftranslationequivalentsRDFDescriptionText  ARDF DescrText  B1,B2,..inSemanticOntologySyntacticOntologyTranslation DBTextB1 B2Translationfrom A inLanguage l2S.
McLaughli, and U. Schwall 1998, ?MachineTranslation and the Information Soup:?, inThird Conference of the Association forMachine Translation in the Americas,Proceedings of the AMTA'98, LNAI 1529, D.Farwell et.
Al.
(Eds.)
Langhorne, PA, USA,October 1998, pp.
384-397M.
Shimohata, and E Sumita, and Y. Matsumoto2003, ?Retrieving Meaning-equivalentSentences for Example-based RoughTranslation?, HLT-NAACL Workshop:Building and using Parallel Texts.
Data DrivenMachine Translation and Beyond, Edmonton,May-June 2003, pp.
50-56Technology Review 2003, ?10 emergingTechnologies who will change the World?,retrieved at http://www.technologyreview.com/A Trujillo 1999, Translation Engines: Techniquesfor Machine Translation, Springer Verlag, 1999
