Concordances of SnippetsEl?bieta DURALexware LabsG?teborgSwedenelzbieta@lexwarelabs.comAbstractExcellent concordances can be produced bytools mounted on regular web search enginesbut these tools are not suitable for quicklookups on the web because it takes time tocollect ad-hoc corpora with occurrences of aqueried word or phrase.
It is possible to get aweb concordance in an instant if the amount oftransferred data can be limited.
One way to doit is to use snippets from a search engine as abasis for concordance lines, which is asolution adopted in Lexware Culler - a webconcordance tool mounted on Google.
It takesthe same time to look up words and phrases inLexware Culler as it takes for Google todeliver results for a search.
The question iswhether concordances based on snippets canbe satisfactory for linguists or languagelearners.
Our tests show that they actually can.With proper filtering concordances based onsnippets can provide a good survey of currentlanguage use, which is particularly importantas a complement to online dictionaries.1 IntroductionThe access to the web is ubiquitous, it is a self-renewing language resource and its size andvariety exceeds all previous corpora.
Thecounterpart of the public web was estimated up to28 million books already in 2002, which can becompared with the largest number of volumes heldby Harvard University - about 15 million (O'Neill,Lavoie, Bennett, 2003).
Excellent concordancesare produced by tools mounted on regular websearch engines but these tools are not suitable forquick lookups on the web because it takes time tocollect ad-hoc corpora with occurrences of aqueried word or phrase.
Is it possible to get a webconcordance in an instant?2 Web search engines in linguistic serviceAs the implementation of a special purposelinguistic search engine lingers on,1 web search1There is actually one being currently developed andengines are used to produce web concordances.Search engines improve constantly.
For instance itis no longer true that ?Some search engines,including Google, FAST and Lycos, do not supportwildcards at all?
(Kehoe and Renouf, 2002).
InGoogle wildcards are available for words and inAltaVista wildcards were available for both wordsand characters until its unfortunate recent death (1stApril 2004).
Google covers 4.28 billion web-pages, it has snap-shots of majority of them in itscache and its result lists include snippets - shorttext excerpts from matching web-pages showing asearch term in its closest context.
Google is notimmaculate.
A search term cannot be longer than10 words and it is not always included in a snippet.It does not support case sensitive search orwildcards for characters.2.1 Tools for concordancing the webConcordance tools mounted on web searchengines enable a user to compile own corpora fromweb-pages for a chosen search term and produce aconcordance of the gathered text material.2.1.1 Concordances collected in batch modeKWiCFinder seems to have been the first one toprovide linguists with KWIC concordances fromthe web.
KWiCFinder is intended to be used inbatch mode.
It assists the user to formulate a query,the query is submitted to AltaVista, documents areretrieved and a KWIC concordance of 5-15 onlinedocuments per minute is produced.
KWiCFinder isused in its own client application which needs tobe downloaded.2.1.2 Concordances from selected web-sitesWebConc is mounted on Google.
It takes asearch term from the user, accesses each web-pageobtained from Google, collects all contexts of thesearch term and presents them as a concordance.
Itis perspicuous and easy to use.
The maximalnumber of web-pages is limited to 50 in order tokeep the retrieval time down but even with theminimum of 10 web-pages it is too slow forinteractive use.
It is possible to limit retrieval totested for English (http://lse.umiacs.umd.edu:8080/).some chosen URL in WebConc, which probably isthe best way to use the tool.2.1.3 Concordances by e-mailWebCorp (Kehoe and Renouf, 2002) makesaccess to each of web-pages retrieved by a chosensearch engine, fortunately one does not have towait for the results to appear on the screen becauseit is possible to order a concordance to be sent bye-mail.
Various types of reports are madeavailable, e.g.
collocates of the search term can bepresented summarized in a table.
A frequency oralphabetically ordered list of all the words on anysource page is available upon clicking on a URLlink.
Regular expressions can be used to expressform alterations.
WebCorp is an excellent exampleof how useful search engines can be made forlinguists when their power is enhanced withnatural language processing.3 Instant web concordancesThe web is not a true corpus: it is notrepresentative of anything and it is not balanced.Nonetheless there is no better place to look upexamples of current language use than the web,which possibly is also the most suitable type of useof this language resource.
But interactive use,expected of concordances in general, requires shortretrieval times.3.1 Why web concordances are slowWebCorp is said to be slow because ?the currentversion of WebCorp is for demonstration purposesand the speed at which results are returned willincrease as the tool is developed further?.
Is thespeed really in the hands of the developers of thesystem?
The decisive factor here is the time ittakes to access each web-page, which depends onthe capacity of the data transmission channel andthe actual server a web-page is on, and this is noteven predictable.
It is possible to make sure that aconnection is always made to a quick server byusing Google cache instead of original URLs butthe time taken by data transmission still remains aproblem.
One possible solution is to rely onsnippets for concordance lines.
This saves the timeneeded to collect and transfer ad-hoc web corpora.3.2 Web concordances and online dictionariesThe possibility to access current language use onthe web in an instance is crucial as a complementto online dictionaries.
The problem confrontingdictionaries is how to handle two incompatibletasks simultaneously.
One is to supply correctdefinitions and thereby preserve the usefulness ofwords.
The other is to report on current trends inlanguage usage, even when it means effacingmeaningful differences between words.
The role ofan online dictionary complemented withconcordances from the web would be to considerwhether some popular usage may be based onconfusion.3.3 Lexware CullerLexware Culler builds concordances of Googlesnippets and it takes the same time to look upwords and phrases in Lexware Culler as it takes forGoogle to deliver results.
Language processing isapplied not only to search terms but also tosnippets from Google.2 Besides Google wildcardswhich can be used for any word in general (*), it ispossible to select words of a particular part ofspeech, in which case part of speech variables areused.
Function word variables trigger expansion ofsearch terms into alternative queries whilevariables of open parts of speech are used to filteraway non-matching snippets obtained for a searchterm.
This postfiltering is available for English andSwedish and it is being developed for Polish.A table with a summary of results is alwayssupplied in Culler along with concordance lines,which proves often handy, e.g.
in investigation ofcollocations.
It is possible to test the tool athttp://82.182.103.45/lexware/concord/culler.html3.4 Examples of useExamples provided below are representative ofthe uses of Lexware Culler tested so far.3.4.1 Context-based look-upsIt is not obvious how to find a word or a phrasein a dictionary if all one can go after is its context,it may be difficult even in a corpus unless verylarge.
In order to find the word for a stick used inconducting an orchestra we made some futilechecks in online dictionaries3.
A simple query for?conductor?s *?
in Culler yields baton directlywith several examples like ?not the first soloist tofeel the lure of the conductor?s baton?
.A new adverbial use of the word fett (fat) hasbecome very popular in the language of youngSwedes ?
it has the role of a general magnifier.This use cannot be found in Swedish dictionariesor in the corpus of the Bank of Swedish.
A typicalcontext entered in Culler as a search term: ?det ?rfett *?
(it is fat *) gives 188 hits of which very feware examples of the basic uses of the word,2 Full-fledged language processing is available forSwedish.
It is based on a language engine for Swedish ?Lexware (Dura and Drejak, 2002).3 We tried WordNet, AskOxford.com, Merriam-Webster?s Collegiate Dictionary, Dictionary.com, andfinally we found an example with baton in CambridgeDictionaries Online.majority of excerpts exemplify the new adverbialuse.A search term can be formulated as a typicaldefining context, for instance: ?Moomin is a *?and ?Moomins are *?.
If the search is not limitedto a specific country excerpts thus obtained arehard to find elsewhere side by side: Many peoplein Japan think that Moomin is a hippopotamus,however, it is actually a forest fairy or Moomin is aFinnish cartoon/storybook character likened toFinland's version of Mickey Mouse, Moomins areWHITE, dammit!.3.4.2 Tracing mistakes, language changesDo the French have the word entrepreneur?
Yes,233 000 French web-pages have ?entrepreneur?
or?entrepreneurs?.
Has the correct spelling of Polishadverb z powrotem (back) lost to a new one wordspelling spowrotem yet?
Not, yet: it is used on22 400 web-pages, while the correct one is used on83 500 web-pages.
Besides such simple checksCuller can be used to ferret out popularmisinterpretations, such as those of the Swedishidiom med ber?tt mod (in cold blood).
Table 1 is aresult summary for the search term: ?med ber?tt *?and ?-mod?
(any phrase beginning with med ber?ttexcluding those with mod).4 The incorrectalternative versions thus extracted are: mord(murder), lugn (calm), v?ld (violence).
The numberof web-pages returned by Google is shown in theright column, the left one contains the number ofconcordance lines.4 med ber?tt mot3 med ber?tt mord1 med ber?tt lugn1 med ber?tt v?ld9Table 1: Summary table for the search term?med ber?tt *?
?
?mod?3.4.3 Extracting unrestrained language useOne can learn from a dictionary what creaturestypically produce grunting sounds.
A further checkin a large corpus yields yet more examples.
Therange of grunting creatures which appears insnippets for the search term ?grunting like a *?
and?-pig?
is truly amazing: from more or lesspredictable ones, like a walrus, a deranged gorilla,a wrestler, a lumberjack, to rather unexpectedones, like a constipated weasel, a freakin caveman,a eunuch impersonating Billy Idol, plus many freshassociations like an orc, the beasts back onMordor, etc.4 Word filter in Google is applied to the whole web-page.In order to check whether and how expressionsfor becoming of age are dependent on the age itselfthe following queries were entered: ?going onNUM?
?gonna be NUM?
?become NUM?
?turnNUM?, ?push NUM?, ?reach NUM?
?make it toNUM?
?hit NUM?, where NUM stands fornumerals.
Enormous material was obtained for allages, some of which involved surprises.
Forinstance, ?make it to NUM?
had most hits in lowerages, where the lowest numbers referred mostly tothe age of relations, while middle numbers referredto young people sick in some incurable illness;hitting 50 and more proved to be rare, probablybecause of its low news value.4 Snippets as concordance linesWhether snippets are sufficient as concordancelines is a question which can be settled empiricallyonly.
Culler has been used extensively for the pastthree months in uses for which the examplesprovided above are representative.4.1 Google selectionsAn average snippet is about 20 words long, whichin most cases is sufficient as disambiguatingcontext.
For each query Google retrieves max.
100URLs and there may be up to 300 queriesgenerated by Culler for a search term (whenexpanded with inflectional forms and/or functionwords).Google selects web-pages according to acomplex ranking, the main ingredient of which isthe popularity of a web-page, measured amongothers in the number of links from other web-pages.
Snippets are thus representative of prevalentlanguage use.
So are the numbers of matchesreported by search engines because they report thenumber of web-pages with at least one match.
Thefact that each snippet is from a different web-pagecontributes to the diversity of excerpts.The quality of excerpts can differ tremendouslydependent on a search term.
Generally the longerthe search term the higher the chance for betterexcerpts.
Some terms get snippets with propername readings only, in which case it is better tolimit the source of snippets to some largenewspaper web-site5.4.2 Culler selectionsPost-filtering of snippets is triggered either byvariables of open parts of speech in a search termor by noise in excerpts.
Three types of noisyexcerpts are filtered away: repetitive, non-textualand non-phrasal.
Each of the filters can be turnedoff.
An average percentage of noise in snippets is5 The URL is entered in Culler?s slot for word filters.about 20%.The three types of noises amount to anaverage of 21.7 % snippets discarded in theexamples cited above (T is the number of snippetsobtained from Google, D is the number ofdiscarded snippets).Search term T D %?Moomin is a *?
?Moomins are *?120 18 15.0?grunting like DET *?
?-pig?236 28 11.9?conductor?s?
93 35 37.6?z powrotem?
87 13 14.9?spowrotem?
99 17 17.1?entrepreneur?
183 49 26.7?med ber?tt *?
?-mod?9 0 0.0?det ?r fett * * ?
188 95 50.5Table 2: Discarded snippets4.2.1 World wide repetitionsGoogle does not return web-pages which areexact copies but it does return snippets which arethe same or almost the same.
Famous lyrics,dramas, stories, sermons, speeches, important newsappear in enormous number of copies.
For instancea search term ?children at your feet?
has about50% repetitions, all of which involve web-pageswith lyrics of the song ?Lady Madonna?.
Theaverage level of repetitive snippets is about 5% inthe cited examples.
Repetitive snippets discardedby Lexware Culler are the ones which differ onlyin:?
case of characters,?
date, time, link, and similar meta-information,?
word internal separators, like hyphens,?
language specific characters.4.2.2 Non-textual snippetsSeveral types of more or less formulaic elementswhich are common on the web appear in snippets.None of these are usually desirable as concordancelines: boilerplate information, mathematicalformulae, navigation tips, hyperlinks, e-mailaddresses, post addresses, data on updates, headers,footers, copy right statements, logs, fragments oflists of items.
7% of snippets are discarded onaverage by this type of filtering in the citedexamples.4.2.3 Non-phrasalPunctuation is ignored by Google while Cullerdeparts from an assumption that phrasal context isnormally requested, hence only snippets withoutinterrupting punctuation within a search term areselected.
Adding marginal wildcards to a searchterm is interpreted in Culler as a request for anunbroken phrasal context including words matchedby wildcards.
Snippets with search termsinterrupted by commas, full-stops, colons,semicolons, question and exclamation marks arediscarded by this filtering.
The impact of thisfiltering differs very much from case to case: fromhalf of the excerpts to none at all.5 ConclusionInstead of collecting ad-hoc corpora from eachweb-page retrieved by Google Lexware Cullerbuilds concordances of snippets.
Thanks to thislimitation it is possible to look up words andphrases on the web in an instant.
The quality ofconcordances built of snippets varies fromexcellent to poor dependent mainly on a searchterm but the goal of getting a quick glimpse oflanguage use on the web is clearly attainable withsnippets.
Snippets are sufficiently long to providedisambiguating contexts.
The ranking system ofweb search engines gives preference to the mostpopular web-pages, hence the prevalent languageuse can be expected in majority of excerpts.
At thesame time it is also true that extensive filtering isrequired in order to make accceptable concordancelines of snippets.ReferencesE.
Dura and Marek Drejak.
2002.
InformationRetrieval With Language Knowledge.
In: CrossLanguage Evaluation Forum Berlin HeidelbergNew York: Springer-Verlag.A.
Kehoe & A. Renouf.
2002.
WebCorp: Applyingthe Web to Linguistics and Linguistics to theWeb.
In: WWW2002 Conference, Honolulu,Hawaii.KWiCFinderhttp://www.kwicfinder.com/KWiCFinder.htmlE.
T. O'Neill, B. F. Lavoie, R. Bennett.
2003.Trends in the Evolution of the Public Web 1998?
2002.
In: D-Lib Magazine, Vol.
9 Nr 4.WebConc http://www.niederlandistik.fu-berlin.de/cgi-bin/web-conc.cgi?sprache=en&art=googleWebCorp http://www.webcorp.org.uk/
