Proposition Bank II:  Delving DeeperOlga Babko-Malaya, Martha Palmer, Nianwen Xue, Aravind Joshi1, Seth KulickUniversity of Pennsylvania{malayao/mpalmer/xueniwen/joshi/skulick}@linc.cis.upenn.edu1 Associated with Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB).
Other members of the project are Eleni Miltsakaki, Rashmi Prasad,(Univ.
of PA) and Bonnie Webber (Univ.
of Edinburgh)AbstractThe PropBank project is creating a corpus oftext annotated with information about basicsemantic propositions.
PropBank I (Kingsbury& Palmer, 2002) added a layer of predicate-argument information, or semantic roles, tothe syntactic structures of the English PennTreebank.
This paper presents an overviewof the second phase of PropBank Annotation,PropBank II, which is being applied to Eng-lish and Chinese, and includes (Neodavid-sonian) eventuality variables, nominalreferences, sense tagging, and connections tothe Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB), a pro-ject for annotating discourse connectives andtheir arguments.1 IntroductionAn important question is the degree to which currentstatistical NLP systems can be made more domain-independent without prohibitive costs, either in terms ofengineering or annotation.
The Proposition Bank isdesigned as a broad-coverage resource to facilitate thedevelopment of more general systems.
It focuses on theargument structure of verbs, and provides a completecorpus annotated with semantic roles, including partici-pants traditionally viewed as arguments and ad-juncts.
Correctly identifying the semantic roles of thesentence constituents is a crucial part of interpretingtext, and in addition to forming a component of the in-formation extraction problem, can serve as an interme-diate step in machine translation or automaticsummarization.The Proposition Bank project takes a practical approachto semantic representation, adding a layer of predicate-argument information, or semantic roles, to the syntacticstructures of the Penn Treebank.
The resulting resourcecan be thought of as shallow, in that it does not repre-sent co-reference, quantification, and many otherhigher-order phenomena, but also broad, in that it cov-ers every verb in the corpus and allows representativestatistics to be calculated.
The semantic annotation pro-vided by PropBank is only a first approximation at cap-turing the full richness of semantic representation.Additional annotation of nominalizations and othernoun predicates has already begun at NYU.
This paperpresents an overview of the second phase of PropBankAnnotation, PropBank II, which is being applied to Eng-lish and Chinese and includes (Neodavidsonian) eventu-ality variables, nominal references, sense tagging, anddiscourse connectives.2 PropBank IPropBank (Kingsbury & Palmer, 2002) is an annotationof the Wall Street Journal portion of the Penn TreebankII (Marcus, 1994) with `predicate-argument' structures,using sense tags for highly polysemous words and se-mantic role labels for each argument.
An important goalis to provide consistent semantic role labels across dif-ferent syntactic realizations of the same verb, as in thewindow in [ARG0 John] broke [ARG1 the window] and[ARG1 The window] broke.
PropBank can provide fre-quency counts for (statistical) analysis or generationcomponents in a machine translation system, but pro-vides only a shallow semantic analysis in that the anno-tation is close to the syntactic structure and each verb isits own predicate.In PropBank, semantic roles are defined on a verb-by-verb basis.
An individual verb's semantic arguments aresimply numbered, beginning with 0.
Polysemous verbshave several Framesets, corresponding to a relativelycoarse notion of word senses, with a separate set ofnumbered roles, a roleset, defined for each Frameset.For instance, leave has both a DEPART Frameset ([ARG0John] left [ARG1 the room]) and a GIVE Frameset, ([ARG0I] left [ARG1 my pearls] [ARG2 to my daughter-in-law][ARGM-LOC in my will].)
While most Framesets havethree or four numbered roles, as many as six can appear,in particular for certain verbs of motion.
Verbs can takeany of a set of general, adjunct-like arguments(ARGMs), such as LOC (location), TMP (time), DIS(discourse connectives), PRP (purpose) or DIR (direc-tion).
Negations (NEG) and modals (MOD) are alsomarked.The same annotation philosophy has been extended tothe Penn Chinese Proposition Bank (Xue and Palmer,2003).
The Chinese PropBank annotation is performedon a smaller (250k words) and yet growing corpus an-notated with syntactic structures (Xue et al2004).
Thesame syntactic alternations that form the basis for theEnglish PropBank annotation also exist in robust quanti-ties in Chinese, even though it may not be the case thatthe same exact verbs (meaning verbs that are closetranslations of one another) have the exact same rangeof syntactic realization for Chinese and English.
Forexample, in (1), "xin-nian/New Year  zhao-dai-hui/reception" plays the same role in (a) and (b), whichis the event or activity held,  even though it occurs indifferent syntactic positions.
Assigning the same argu-ment label, Arg1, to both instances, captures this regu-larity.
It is worth noting that the predicate ?ju-xing/hold" does not have passive morphology in (1a),despite of what its English translation suggests.
Like theEnglish PropBank, the adjunct-like elements receivemore general labels like TMP or LOC, as also illustratedin (1).
The tag set for Chinese and English PropBanksare to a large extent similar and more details can befound in (Xue and Palmer, 2003).
(1) a.
[ARG1 xin-nian/New Year zhao-dai-hui/reception] [ARGM-TMP jin-tian/today] [ARGM-LOC zai/at diao-yu-tai/Diaoyutai guo-bin-guan/stateguest house ju-xing/hold]"The New Year reception was held in Diaoyutai StateGuest House today."b.
[ARG0 tang-jia-xuan/Tang Jiaxuan] [ARGM-TMP jin-tian/today] [ARGM-LOC zai/at diao-yu-tai/Diaoyutai guo-bin-guan/state guest house] ju-xing/hold [arg1 xin-nian/New Year zhao-dai-hui/reception]"Tang Jiaxuan was holding the New Year Reception inDiaoyutai State Guest House today.
"For polysemous verbs that take different sets of seman-tic roles, we also distinguish different Framesets.
(2)and (3) illustrate the different Framesets of "tong-guo/pass", which correspond loosely with major sensesof the verb.
The Frameset in (2) roughly means "passby voting" while the Frameset illustrated by (3) means"pass through".
The different Framesets are generallyreflected in the different alternation patterns, which canserve as a cue for statistical systems performing Frame-set disambiguation.
(2) is similar to the causa-tive/inchoative alternation (Levin, 1993).
In contrast, (3)shows object drop.
(2) a.
[ARG0 guo-hui/Congress] zui-jin/recently tong-guo/pass le/ASP [ARG1 zhou-ji/interstate yin-hang-fa/banking law]"The U.S. Congress recently passed the inter-statebanking law."b.
[ARG1 zhou-ji/interstate yin-hang-fa/bankinglaw] zui-jin/recently tong-guo/pass le/ASP"The inter-state banking law passed recently.
"(3) a.
[ARG0 huo-che/train] zheng-zai/now tong-guo/pass [ARG1 sui-dao/tunnel]"The train is passing through the tunne."b.
[ARG0 huo-che/train]  zheng-zai/now  tong-guo/pass.
"The train is passing.
"There are also some notable differences between Chi-nese PropBank and English PropBank.
In general, theverbs in the Chinese PropBank are less polysemous,with the vast majority of the verbs having just oneFrameset.
On the other hand, the Chinese PropBank hasmore verbs (including static verbs which are generallytranslated into adjectives in English) normalized by thecorpus size.3 Adding Event Variables to PropBankEvent variables provide a rich analytical tool for analyz-ing verb meaning.
Positing that there is an event vari-able allows for a straightforward representation of thelogical form of adverbial modifiers, the capturing ofpronominal reference to events, and the representationof nouns that refer to events.
For example, event vari-ables make it possible to have direct reference to anevent with a noun phrase, as in (4a) destruction, and torefer back to an event with a pronoun (as illustrated in(4b) That):(4) a.
The destruction of Pompeii happened in the 1stcentury.b.
Brutus stabbed Caesar.
That was a pivotal eventin history.PropBank I annotations can be translated straightfor-wardly into logical representations with event variables,as illustrated in (5), with relations being defined aspredicates of events, and Args and ArgMs representingrelations between event variables and correspondingphrases.
(5) a. Mr. Bush met him privately, in the White House,on Thursday.b.
PropBank annotationRel:  metArg0: Mr. BushArgM-MNR: privatelyArgM-LOC: in the White HouseArgM-TMP: on Thursdayc.
Logical representation with an event variable?e meeting(e) & Arg0(e, Mr. Bush) & Arg1(e, he)& MNR(e, privately) & LOC(e, ?in the WhiteHouse?)
& TIME(e, ?on Thursday?
)As the representation in (5c) shows, we adopt Neo-davidsonian analysis of events, which follows Parsons(1990) in treating arguments on a par with modifiers inthe event structure.
An alternative analysis is the origi-nal Davidsonian analysis of events (Davidson 1967),where the arguments of the verb are analyzed as itslogical arguments.Our choice of a Neodavidsonian representation is moti-vated by its predictions with respect to obligatoriness ofarguments.
Under the Davidsonian approach, argumentsare logical arguments of the verb and thus must be im-plied by the meaning of the sentence, either explicitly orimplicitly (i.e.
existentially quantified).
On the otherhand, it has been a crucial assumption in PropBank thatnot all roles must necessarily be present in each sen-tence.
For example, the Frameset for the verb serve,shown in (6a) has three roles: Arg0, Arg1, and Arg2.Actual usages of the verb, on the other hand, do notrequire the presence of all three roles.
For example, thesentence in (6b), as its PropBank annotation in (6c)shows, does not include Arg1.
(6)  a.  serve.01 "act, work":Arg0:workerArg1:job, projectArg2:employerb.
Each new trading roadblock is likely to be beatenby institutions seeking better ways *trace* to servetheir high-volume clients.c.
Arg0:  *trace* -> institutionsREL:    serveArg2:   their high-volume clientsAs the representations in (7) illustrate, only the Neo-davidsonian representation gives the correct interpreta-tion of this sentence.
(7) Davidsonian representation:?e ?z serve(e, institutions, z, their high-volumeclients)Neodavidsonian representation:?e serve(e)&Arg0(e, institutions)&Arg2(e, theirhigh-volume clients)Assuming a Neodavidsonian representation, we cananalyze all Args and certain types of modifiers as predi-cates of events.
The types of ArgMs that can be ana-lyzed as predicates of event variables are shown below:?
MNR:   to manage businesses profitably?
TMP:    to run the company for 23 years?
LOC:    to use the notes on the test?
DIR:     to jump up?
CAU:    because of ??
PRP:      in order to ?Whereas for the most part, translating these adverbialsinto modifiers of event variables does not require man-ual annotation, certain constructions need human revi-sion.
For example, in the sentence in (8a) the temporalArgM ?for the past five years?
does not modify the eventvariable e introduced by the verb manage, as our auto-matic translation would predict.
The revised analysis ofthis sentence, given in (8b), follows Krifka 1989, whoproposed that negated sentences refer to maximal events?
events that have everything that happened during theirrunning time as a part.
Annotation of this sentencewould thus require us to introduce an additional eventvariable, the maximal event e?, which has a duration?for the past five years?
and has no event of unionsmanaging wage increases as part.
(8)  a.
For the past five years, unions have not managedto win wage increases.b.
?e?
TMP(e?, ?for the past five years?)
&??e(e<e?
& managing(e) & Arg0(e, unions) &Arg1(e, ?win wage increases?
))Further annotation involves linking empty categories inPropBank to event variables in cases of control, as illus-trated in (9), where event variables can be viewed as theappropriate antecedents for PRO, marked as ?*?
below:(9) The car collided with a lorry, * killing both drivers.And, finally, we will consider tagging variables accord-ing to the aspectual class of the eventuality they denote,such as states or events.
Events, such as John built ahouse, involve some kind of change and usually implythat some condition, which obtains when the event be-gins, is terminated by the event.
States, on the otherhand, do not involve any change and hold for varyingamounts of time.
It does not make sense to ask how longa state took (as opposed to events), and whether thestate is culminated or finished.This distinction between states and events plays an im-portant role for the temporal analysis of discourse, asthe following examples (from Kamp and Reyle 1993)illustrate:(10) a.
A man entered the White Hart.
Bill served him abeer.b.
I arrived at the Olivers?
cottage on Friday night.It was not a propitious beginning to my visit.
Shewas ill and he in a foul mood.If a non-initial sentence denotes an event, then it is typi-cally understood as following the event described by thepreceding sentence.
For example, in (10a), the event ofBill serving a beer is understood as taking place afterthe event of ?a man entering the White Hart?
was com-pleted.
On the other hand, states are interpreted as tem-porally overlapping with the time of the precedingsentence, as illustrated in (10b).
The sentences she wasill and he was in a foul mood seem to describe a state ofaffairs obtaining at the time of the speaker?s arrival.As this example illustrates, there are different types oftemporal relations between eventualities (as we will callboth events and states) and adverbials that modify them,such as temporal overlap and temporal containment.Furthermore, these relations crucially depend on theaspectual properties of the sentence.
Translation of PBannotations to logical representations with eventualityvariables and tagging these variables according to theiraspectual type would thus make it possible to provide ananalysis of temporal relations.
This analysis should alsobe compatible with a higher level of annotation of tem-poral structure (e.g.
Ferro et al 2001).4 Annotation of Nominal CoreferenceOur approach to coreference annotation is based on therecognition of the different types of relationships thatmight be called "coreference".
The most straightfor-ward case is that of two semantically definite NPs thatrefer to identical entities, as in (11).
Anaphoric rela-tions (very broadly defined) are those in which one NP(or possessive adjective) has no referential value of itsown but depends on an antecedent for its interpretation.In some cases this can be relatively simple, as in (12), inwhich the pronoun He takes John Smith as its antece-dent.
However, in some cases, as in (13), the antecedentmay not even be a referring expression, or can, as in(14), refer to an entity that may or may not exist, withthe non-existent a car being the antecedent of it.
Theanaphor does not have to be an NP, as in (15), in whichthe possessive their, which takes many companies as itsantecedent, is an adjective.
(11) John Smith of Company X arrived yesterday.
Mr.Smith said that..."(12) John Smith of Company X arrived yesterday.
Hesaid that..."(13) No team spoke about its system.
(14) I want to buy a car.
I need it to go to work.
(15) Many companies raised their payouts by more than10%.Another level of complexity is raised by NPs that arenot anaphors, in that they have their own reference (per-haps abstract or nonexistent), but are not in an identityrelationship with an antecedent, but rather describe aproperty of that antecedent.
Typical cases of this arepredicate nominals, as in (16), or appositives, as in (17),and other cases as in (18).
(16) Larry is a university lecturer.
(17) Larry, the chair of his department, became presi-dent.
(18) The stock price fell from $4.02 to $3.85As has been discussed (e.g., van Deemter & Kibble,2001), such cases have fundamentally different proper-ties than either the identity relationships of (11) or theanaphoric relationships of (12)-(15).Annotation of nominal co-reference is being done intwo passes.
The first pass involves annotation of trueco-reference between semantically definite NPs`.
Theissue here is to consider what the semantically definitenouns are.
Initially, they are defined as proper nouns(named entities), either as NPs (America) or prenominaladjectives (American politicians).
(19) The last time the S&P 500 yield dropped below 3%was in the summer of 1987...
There have been onlyseven other times when the yield on the S&P 500dropped....It is reasonable to expand this to definite descriptions,so that in (19), the S&P 500 yield and the yield on theS&P 500 are marked as coreferring.
However, somedefinite NPs can refer to clauses, not NPs, such as Thepattern in (20), and we will not do such cases of clausalantecedents on the first pass.
(20) The index fell 40% in 1975 and jumped 80% in1976.
The pattern is an unusual one.Anaphoric relations are being done on a "need-to-annotate" basis.
For each anaphoric NP or possessiveadjective, the annotator needs to determine its antece-dent.
As discussed, this is a different type of relationthan identity, and this distinction will be noted in theannotation.
The issue here is what we consider an ana-phoric element to be.
We consider all cases of pro-nouns, possessives, reflexives, and NPs with that/thoseto be potential cases of anaphors (again, broadly de-fined).
However, as with definite NPs, we only markthose that have an NP antecedent, and not clausal ante-cedents.
For example, in (21), it refers to the current3.3% reading, and so would be marked as being in anantecedent-anaphor relation.
In (22), it refers to havingthe dividend increases, which is not an NP, and sowould not be marked as being in an anaphor relation inthe first pass.
Similar considerations apply to potentialanaphors like those NP, that NP, etc.
(21) ...the current 3.3% reading isn't as troublesome asit might have been.
(22) Having the dividend increases is a supportive ele-ment in the market outlook, but I don't think it's amain consideration".Note that placing the burden on the anaphors to deter-mine what gets marked as being in an anaphor-antecedent leaves it open as to what the antecedentmight be, other than the requirement just mentioned of itbeing an NP.
Not only might it be non-referring NPs asin  (13) or (14), it could even be a generic, as in (23), inwhich books is the antecedent for they.
(23) I like books.
They make me smile.The second pass will tackle the more difficult issues:1.
Descriptive NPs, as in (16)-(18).
While the informa-tion provided by these cases would be extremely valu-able for information extraction and other systems, thereare some uncertain issues here, mostly focusing on howsuch descriptors describe the antecedent at differentmoments in time and/or space.
The crucial question istherefore what to take the descriptor to be.
(24) Henry Higgins might become the president ofDreamy Detergents.For example, in (18), it can't be just $4.02 and $3.85,since this does not include information about *when*the stock price had such values.
The same issue arisesfor (17).
As van Deemter & Kibble point out, suchcases can interact with issues of modality in uncertainways, as illustrated in (24).
Just saying that in (24) thepresident of Dreamy Detergents is in the same type ofrelationship with Henry Higgins as a university lectureris with Larry in (16) would be very misleading.2.
Clausal antecedents - Here we will handle cases of itand other anaphor elements and definite NPs referringto non-NPs as antecedents, as in (21).
This will mostlikely be done by referring to the eventuality variableassociated with the antecedent.5 Linking to the Penn Discourse Treebank(PDTB)The Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB) is currently be-ing built by the PDTB team at the University of Penn-sylvania, providing the next appropriate level ofannotation: the annotation of the predicate argumentstructure of connectives (Miltsakaki et al2004a/b).
ThePDTB project is based on the idea that discourse con-nectives can be thought of as predicates with their asso-ciated argument structure.
This perspective of discourseis based on a series of papers extending lexicalized tree-adjoining grammar (LTAG) to discourse (DLTAG),beginning with Webber and Joshi (1998).2  This level ofannotation is quite complex for a variety of reasons,such as the lack of available literature describing dis-course connectives and frequent occurrences of empty(lexically null) connectives between two sentences thatcannot be ignored.
Also, unlike the predicates at thesentence level, some of the discourse connectives, espe-cially discourse adverbials, take their arguments ana-phorically and not structurally, requiring an intimateassociation with event variable representation.The long-range goal of the PDTB project is to develop alarge scale and reliably annotated corpus that will en-code coherence relations associated with discourse con-nectives, including their argument structure andanaphoric links, thus exposing a clearly defined level ofdiscourse structure and supporting the extraction of arange of inferences associated with discourse connec-tives.
This annotation will reference the Penn Treebank(PTB) annotations as well as PropBank.In PDTB, a variety of connectives are considered, suchas subordinate and coordinate conjunctions, adverbialconnectives and implicit connectives amounting to atotal of approximately 20,000 annotations; 10,000 im-2 The PDTB annotations are deliberately kept independ-ent of DLTAG framework for two reasons: (1) to make theannotated corpus widely useful to researchers working indifferent frameworks and (2) to make the annotation taskeasier, thereby increasing interannotator reliability.plicit connectives and 10,000 annotations of the 250explicit connectives identified in the corpus (for detailssee (Miltsakaki et al2004a and Miltsakaki et al2004b).Current annotations in PDTB are performed by fourannotators.
Individual annotation proceeds one connec-tive at a time.
This way, the annotators quickly gainexperience with that connective and develop a betterunderstanding of its predicate-argument characteristics.For the annotation of implicit connectives, the annota-tors are required to provide an explicit connective thatbest expressed the inferred relation.The PDTB is expected to be released by November2005.
The final version of the corpus  will also containcharacterizations of the semantic roles associated withthe arguments of each type of connective as well aslinks to PropBank.6.
Annotation of Word SensesThe critical question with respect to sense tagging in-volves the choice of senses.
In other words, whichsense inventory, and which level of granularity withrespect to that sense inventory?
The PropBank FramesFiles for the verbs include coarse-grained sense distinc-tions based primarily on usages of a verb that have dif-ferent numbers of predicate-arguments.
These aretermed Framesets ?
referring to the set of roles for eachone and the corresponding set of syntactic frames.
Weare currently sense-tagging the annotated predicates forlemmas with multiple Framesets, which can be donequickly and accurately with an inter-annotator agree-ment of over 90%.
The distinctions made by theFramesets are very coarse, and each one would map toseveral standard dictionary entries for the lemma inquestion.
More fine-grained sense distinctions could beuseful for Automatic Content Extraction, yet it remainsto be determined exactly which distinctions are neces-sary and what methodology should be followed to pro-vide additional word sense annotation.Palmer et al(2004b) present an hierarchical approach toverb senses, where different levels of sense distinctions,from PropBank Framesets to WordNet senses, form acontinuum of granularity.
At the intermediate level ofsense hierarchy we are considering manual groupings ofthe SENSEVAL-2 verb senses (Palmer, et.al., 2004a),developed in a separate project.
Given a large disagree-ment rate between annotators (average inter-annotatoragreement rate for Senseval-2 verbs was only 71%),verbs were grouped by two or more people into sets ofclosely related senses, with grouping differences beingreconciled, and the sense groups were used for coarse-grained scoring of the systems.
These groupings ofWordNet senses were shown to reconcile a substantialportion of the manual and automatic tagging disagree-ments, showing that many of these disagreements arefairly subtle.
Using the groups as a more coarse-grainedset of sense distinctions improved ITA and systemscores by almost 10%, to 82% and 69%, respectively(Palmer, et.
al.
2004a).We have been investigating whether or not the groupscan provide an intermediate level of hierarchy in be-tween the PropBank Framesets and the WN 1.7 senses.Based on our existing WN 1.7 tags and Frameset tags ofthe Senseval2 verbs in the Penn Treebank, 95% of theverb instances map directly from sense groups toFramesets, with each Frameset typically correspondingto two or more sense groups.
Using the PropBankcoarse-grained senses as a starting place, and WordNetsense tagging for over 1000 verbs produced automati-cally through mapping VerbNet to PropBank (Kipper,et.
al., 2004), we have the makings of a large scale tag-ging experiment on the Penn Treebank.
This will en-able investigations into the applicability of clearlydefined criteria for sense distinctions at varying levelsof granularity, and produce a large, 1M word corpus ofsense-tagged text for training WSD systemsThe hierarchical approach to verb senses, as utilized bymost standard dictionaries as well as Hector (Atkins,?93), and as applied to SENSEVAL-2, presents obviousadvantages for the problem of Word Sense Disambigua-tion.
The human annotation task is simplified, sincethere are fewer choices at each level and clearer distinc-tions between them.
The automated systems can com-bine training data from closely related senses toovercome the sparse data problem, and both humansand systems can back off to a more coarse-grainedchoice when fine-grained choices prove too difficult.ConclusionThis paper has presented an overview of the secondphase of PropBank Annotation, PropBank II, which isbeing applied to English and Chinese.
It  includes (Neo-davidsonian) eventuality variables, nominal references,an hierarchical approach to sense tagging, and connec-tions to the Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB), a projectfor annotating discourse connectives and their argu-ments.ReferencesAtkins, S. (1993) Tools for computer-aided corpus lexi-cography: The Hector Project.
Actu Linguistica Hunguricu,41:5-72.Carlson, L., Marcu, D. and Okurowski, M. E. (2002).Building a Discourse-Tagged Corpus in the Framework ofRhetorical Structure Theory.
In Current Directions in Dis-course and Dialogue, Jan van Kuppevelt and Ronnie Smitheds., Kluwer Academic Publishers.
To appear.Davidson, D. 1967.
The Logical Form of Action Sen-tences.
In The Logic of Decision and Action, ed.
NicholasRescher.
81--95.
Pittsburgh: University of PittsburghPress.
Republished in Donald Davidson, Essays on Actionsand Events,Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1980.Edmonds, P. and Cotton, S. 2001.
SENSEVAL-2: Over-view.
In Proceedings of SENSEVAL-2: Second InternationalWorkshop on Evaluating Word Sense Disambiguation Sys-tems, ACL-SIGLEX, Toulouse, France.Ferro L, I. Mani, B. Sundheim and G.Wilson 2001 TIDESTemporal Annotation Guidelines, MITRE Technical Report,MTR 01W0000041.Kamp, H. and U.Reyle.
1993.
From Discourse to Logic,Kluwer, Dordrecht.Kingsbury, P. and Palmer, M, (2002), From TreeBank toPropBank, Third International Conference on Language  Re-sources and Evaluation, LREC-02, Las Palmas, Canary Is-lands, Spain, May 28- June 3.Kilgarriff, A. and Palmer, M.. 2000.
Introduction to thespecial issue on Senseval, Computers and the Humanities,34(1-2):1-13.Kipper K., B. Snyder, and M. Palmer.
(to appear, 2004)"Extending a verb-lexicon using a semantically annotatedcorpus".
Proceedings of the 4th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC-04).
Lisbon,Portugal, 2004.Krifka, M. 1989.
Nominalreferenz und Zeitkonstitution.M?nchen, Wilhelm Fink VerlagLevin, B.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alternations: aPreliminary Investigation.
Chicago: The University of Chi-cago Press.Mann, W. and S. Thompson.
1986.
?Relational Proposi-tions in Discourse?, Discourse Processes 9, 57-90.Marcu, D. 2000.
The Theory and Practice of DiscourseParsing and Summarization.
The MIT Press.Miltsakaki, E., R. Prasad, A. Joshi and B. Webber.
2004a.The Penn Discourse Treebank.
In Proceedings of the 4th In-ternational Conference on Language Resources and Evalua-tion (LREC 2004), Lisbon.Miltsakaki, E., R. Prasad, A. Joshi and B. Webber.
2004b.Annotation of Discourse Connectives and Their Arguments, inProceedings of the HLT-EACL Workshop on Frontiers inCorpus Annotation, Boston, Massachussetts.Palmer, M., Dang, H. T, and Fellbaum, C., 2004a.
Makingfine-grained and coarse-grained sense distinctions, both manu-ally and automatically, under revision for Natural LanguageEngineering.Palmer, M., Babko-Malaya, O., Dang, H. T., 2004b.
Dif-ferent Sense Granularities for Different Applications, to ap-pear in the Scalable Natural Language UnderstandingWorkshop, held in conjunction with HLT/NAACL-04, May,2004.Parsons, T. 1990.
Events in the Semantics of Eng-lish.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.van Deemter, K. and R. Kibble.
2000.
?On Coreferring:Coreference in MUC and Related Annotation Schemes?,Computational Linguistics 26:629-637.Webber B. and A. Joshi.
1998.
Anchoring a lexicalizedtree-adjoining grammar for discourse.
In ACL/COLINGWorkshop on Discourse Relations and Discourse Markers,Montreal, Canada, pp.
41-48.Xue, N. and Palmer, M. 2003.
Annotating the Propositionsin the Penn Chinese Treebank.
In the Proceedings of the Sec-ond SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processing.Sapporo, Japan.Xue, Nianwen, Xia, Fei, Chiou, Fu-dong and Palmer,Martha.
2004.
The Penn Chinese Treebank: phrase structureannotation of a large corpus.
Natural Language Engineering,10(4):1-30, June 2004.
