Towards Metadata InteroperabilityPeter WittenburgMPI for PsycholinguisticsWundtlaan 16525 XD Nijmegen, NetherlandsPeter.Wittenburg@mpi.nlDaan BroederMPI for PsycholinguisticsWundtlaan 16525 XD Nijmegen, NetherlandsDaan.Broeder@mpi.nlPaul BuitelaarDFKIStuhlsatzenhausweg 3D-66123 Saarbr?ckenpaulb@dfki.deAbstractWithin two European projects metadatainteroperability is one of the central top-ics.
While the INTERA project has asone of its goals to achieve an interopera-bility between two widely used metadatasets for the domain of language re-sources, the ECHO project created an in-tegrated metadata domain of in total ninedata providers from five different disci-plines from the humanities.
In both pro-jects ad hoc techniques are used toachieve results.
In the INTERA project,however, machine readable and ISOcompliant concept definitions are createdas a first step towards the Semantic Web.In the ECHO project a complex ontologywas realized purely relying on XML.
It isargued that concept definitions should beregistered in open Data Category Reposi-tories and that relations between themshould be described as RDF assertions.Yet we are missing standards that wouldallow us to overcome the ad hoc solu-tions.1 IntroductionMetadata is a key source of information towardsrealization of the Semantic Web that could beexploited in many different ways.
Several pro-jects are starting to focus on exploiting richmetadata in and between projects and disciplines.For instance, the ECHO (European CulturalHeritage Online)1 project brings together meta-data for resources from the History of Arts, His-tory of Science, Linguistics, Ethnology andPhilosophy.
One aspect of the work in ECHO isto create a cross-disciplinary domain for resourcediscovery.
In the INTERA (Integrated EuropeanLanguage Resource Area)2 project one of the1 ECHO: http://www.mpi.nl/echo2 INTERA: http://www.elda.fr/rubrique22.htmltasks is to establish a foundation for a moreflexible definition and use of metadata for lan-guage resources.We can distinguish two types of metadata.
Thefirst one concerns its use as ?data about data?.This definition of metadata includes for exampletext that describes images, sounds, videos andother texts.
Such metadata can exist in differentforms like complex annotations of media re-cordings as discussed for example by Bird (2001)and Brugman (2001).
A second type of metadataconsists of keywords describing objects that formthe catalogues of the increasingly large digitalcollections, e.g., of linguistic data.
This type ofmetadata was introduced by initiatives such asDublin Core3 for general type web-resources,OLAC4 for general type linguistic resources andIMDI5 for more elaborate linguistic resource de-scriptions that are useful not only for discoverybut also for management purposes.Although the first type of metadata is very im-portant for the above mentioned use in contentdescriptions, in this paper we will focus on as-pects that are related to the second, keyword typeof metadata.
It is obvious that this type of meta-data?
contains amongst others important informa-tion about a resource that cannot be retrievedfrom its content;?
are especially relevant for the discovery andmanagement of multimedia resources sincespeech and image recognition are still faraway from being applicable in most cases;?
includes a reduced set of descriptive ele-ments and requires classification such thatcontent information in many cases is richer;?
offers a limited set of semantically well-defined data categories (ISO 12620) that canbe related with other concepts.3 Dublin Core: http://dublincore.org4 OLAC: http://www.language-archives.org5 IMDI: http://www.mpi.nl/IMDIIn this paper we will describe the problems thatwe encountered in the INTERA and the ECHOprojects to come to interoperable metadata do-mains, the structural and semantic solutions thatwere chosen to solve the tasks and the solutionswe are aiming at in the long run.
In this contextwe will also refer to the intentions within ISOTC37/SC46.2 Current tasksThe INTERA taskOne focus of the work in the INTERA project ison the integration of metadata elements that areused in describing language resources for opendata category repositories.
Two metadata sets arebeing used currently for the discovery and man-agement of language resources.
The OLAC set isused for discovery purposes and aims to be usedfor all kinds of language resources.
The set wasderived from the Dublin Core set, i.e., on pur-pose it only includes a limited set of elements.The IMDI set was designed bottom-up and isused for discovery and management purposes.
Itis a rich and structured set especially derived forannotated resources and lexica.
The distributedIMDI domain was extended in the INTERA andECHO projects to more than 27 participatingEuropean institutions sees itself as an OLAC dataprovider, i.e., the OLAC harvester can read allIMDI records that are offered via the Open Ar-chives Initiative metadata harvesting protocol7(OAI MHP).
A wrapper is used to map the IMDIelements to the OLAC elements, i.e., the map-6 ISO TC37/SC4: http://www.tc37sc4.org7 OAI MHP: http:// www.ukoln.ac.uk/cd-focus/presentations/ cldprac/sld020.htmping relations are hardwired into a server-basedprogram.Recently, a new version of the IMDI metadataset (version 3.0.3) was provided.
In parallel, alsothe new version of the OLAC metadata set (Au-gust 2003) was worked out.
Both metadata setsare described by human readable definition docu-ments available in the web.
New mapping ruleshave to be constructed which for short-termneeds will again be hard-wired into a server-based program.But this is not seen as being sufficient to servefuture needs.
New ways have to be developed formaking the mapping more transparent and to pre-pare the metadata domain for Semantic Web ap-plications.
Therefore, as a first step, the IMDImetadata concepts are entered into the open datacategory registry that is currently emergingwithin ISO TC37/SC4.The ECHO taskIn the ECHO project one of the tasks is to createa metadata domain that covers five disciplinesand several institutions within each discipline.
Intotal we were confronted with nine differentmetadata sets.The table below gives an overview of the meta-data types that we were confronted with.
One ofthe sets is DC compliant, two produce descrip-tions that are close to DC, two provide true OAIcompliance including the delivery of DC records.Most of the data is extracted from relational da-tabases, encoding other types of data as well.
Inmany cases the elements used were not well de-fined, possibly leading to differences in usage bythe metadata creators.Domain ?
Sub-domain size Type MDFormalStateHarvestingType CommentHoA - Fotothek very large MIDAS Iconclassnonvalidated XML export from a databaseHoA - Lineamenta small close to DC non val XML export from a databaseHoA ?
Maps of Rome small self-defined non val XML export from a databaseHoS ?
Berlin Collection large close to DC validated XML export from a databaseHoS ?
IMSS pot large DC non val XML export from a databaseE ?
Ethnology MuseumLeiden RMV very largeOMVOMV Thesaurus validated OAI export from a databaseE ?
NECEP database small self defined validated XML export from a databaseL ?
IMDI Domain large IMDI set validated XML/OAI true XML domainP ?
Collection of Texts small self defined non val XML XML textsHistory of arts (HoA), History of Science (HoS), Linguistics (L), Ethnology (E), Phylosophy (P)Also the way in which the content of resources isdescribed differs substantially.
In Fotothek theIconClass thesaurus is used to categorize the con-tent of photos and images.
In the RMV cataloguethe OVM thesaurus is used which is similar tothe AAT thesaurus.
Some use the subject fieldfrom the DC element set with all its weaknesses,others have an unconstrained keyword field andthe elaborate IMDI set has a couple of elementsthat describe the content such as ?task?, ?genre?,?subgenre?, ?language?
and ?modalities?.A variety of description options is used for theindication of geographic regions.
In the RMVcase a geographic thesaurus is used.
Others usedescriptors such as ?country?
and ?region?.
Insome instances language names have to be usedto indicate a geographical overlap.When creating an interoperable metadata domainone has to cope with problems at each layer:character encoding, data harvesting, syntacticalaspects and semantic integration.
Only the lastpoint is of relevance in the context of this paper.To enable semantic integration an ontology wasbuilt that covers?
nine metadata repositories;?
a file where all metadata concepts rele-vant for the integrated domain ECHOdomain are listed including their descrip-tion in a number of major languages (thesetup is similar to the one used withinISO TC37/SC4);?
a file that includes all mappings betweenthese concepts where each individual setpresents a view that is mapped to all oth-ers;?
two geographic thesauri containing dif-ferent types of geographic informationwith cross-links between them;?
two category thesauri describing the con-tent of the resources;?
two mapping files containing one-directional cross-links between the twothesauri;?
a file that contains all content type of de-scriptions that occur in the metadata re-cords and which do not use one of thebig thesauri with mappings to these two.As we are currently using the existing files sim-ply as exchange formats they have been repre-sented in XML (rather than RDF for instance).To implement fast search, specially optimizedinternal representations are chosen and combinedwith fast indexes.
The representations are suchthat all occurring references are expanded inpreparation time and not during execution time.A special engine was programmed that can oper-ate on these extended representations.To illustrate this we use an example with geo-graphic thesaurus information.
A search for?Country=Italy?
should result in hits for all ob-jects that have to do with ?Italy?
either as thecreation site or as the site where the scene takesplace.
The metadata records are now extendedsuch that for all locations that are within ?Italy?the nodes appearing higher up in the thesaurushierarchy are added.
This assures that a recordcontaining for example ?Rome?
will also be in-dicated as a hit when ?Italy?
was entered in thequery.Exploiting all repositories during run-time byintelligent crawlers would require fast parallelalgorithms.
Only parallelism would yield theexecution speed needed to satisfy the users.Relation typesWe have discovered different types of relationsbetween the concepts used in the INTERA andECHO projects.In the INTERA project we can indicate internalrelations within the structured IMDI metadataset, i.e., structure conveys semantic relations.
Anexample can be given by the many attributes of aparticipant.
A certain participant has a ?name?
asan identifier and various attributes such as ?age?,?role?
and ?education?.
Between the IMDI andOLAC concepts there are three types of relations:(1) For some concepts one can speak of equalityand it was agreed that the controlled vocabularieswill be unified where possible.
(2) There are alsohierarchical relations such as ?subClass?
and?superClass?
between some of the concepts.
(3)There is a type of relation where we can speakabout a semantic overlap that we cannot specifyin more detail.
Finally, there are concepts such as?age?
or ?education?
of a participant that do notmap at all.For the mappings in ECHO we have identifiedfour useful types of relations: (1) ?isEqualTo?defines semantic equivalence, (2) ?isSubclassOf?defines a hyponymy relation, (3) ?isSuperclas-sOf?
defines the inverse and (4) ?mapsTo?
isused to express a semantic overlap.
In mostcases, the ?mapsTo?
relation type was used ?
aone-directional relation indicating semantic over-lap that should be exploitable.
It is not clear yetin how far it makes sense to define the fuzzy?mapsTo?
relation in terms of the standard typesprovided by RDF(S)8 and/or OWL9.
All conceptsthat do not map to others or that are too special(for example ?size of an image?)
were excludedin the ontology definition process.Examples from ECHOUsing the described ECHO interoperabilityframework a number of experiments were carriedout for evaluation purposes.
A few examples willbe discussed here.Example 1Simple Search ?dogon?1 match was found: NECEP: 1Complex Search ?dogon?View NECEP - society name: 1 in NECEPView IMSS - Ianguage: 1 in NECEPView DC - language: 1 in NECEPView Language - language: 1 in NECEPComplex Search ?mali?View Language - country: 1 in NECEPThis example demonstrates the effect of themapping between the metadata sets and of thegeographical thesaurus.
The language element ismapped to the society name element in NECEPalthough this is semantically not correct.
Enter-ing ?mali?
in the country specification yields ahit since ?mali?
is seen as a superclass to?dogon?.
Here a relation type such as?has_language?
would be semantically more ap-propriate.Example 2Simple Search ?inuit?2 matches are found: Language: 1, NECEP: 1Complex Search ?inuit?View Language - *: 0 in Language (could not befound in the Language domain)View Language ?
language: 1 in NECEPComplex Search ?greenland?View Language ?
language: 1 in NECEPThe results are similar compared to example 1.
Itindicates that the element including ?inuit?
in thelanguage domain is not an element that is usedfor mapping.
It was used as avalue of an optional8 RDF: http://www.w3.org/RDF9 OWL: http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/WebOntelement by one specific researcher.
This exampleshows that simple search covering all metadataelements can lead to improved results.Example 3Simple Search ?agriculture?75 matches are found: Language: 73, Fotothek: 2Complex Search ?agriculture?View Fotothek - iconography: 2 in FotothekView RMV ?
content: 2 in FotothekView IMDI ?
content: 2 in FotothekThese results are misleading and demonstrate theweakness of simple search.
The 73 hits for lan-guage result from matching with the recordingplace (?southern agriculture kindergarten?)
andthe affiliation of an actor (?ministry of agricul-ture?).
These results obviously do not refer todocuments the user was serching for.
In the caseof Fotothek the hits make sense since it is about?harvesting?.
The mapping in complex leads tothe expected results, the misleading hits from thelanguage domain are not found.Example 4Simple Search ?clothing?22 matches: Language: 8, RMV: 8, Fotothek: 6Complex Search ?clothing?View RMV ?
content: 8 in RMV, 6 in FotothekView Fotothek ?
iconography: 8 in RMV, 6 inFotothekView Language ?
content: 8 in RMV, 6 inFotothekAgain the rich annotations that are used in vari-ous free-text fields in the language domain leadto wrong hits.
They are about chats at the bakeryshop and the clothes people are wearing ?
so it?snot about clothing as an object which may beintended by the person specifying the search.
Theresults for complex search from different do-mains shows the correctness of the mappings.Example 5Simple Search ?horses?7 matches: Fotothek: 2, Language: 2, IMSS: 3Complex Search ?horses?View Fotothek ?
object title: 3 in IMSSView Fotothek ?
iconography: 2 in FotothekView Lineamenta ?
title: 3 in IMSSView Lineamenta ?
keywords: 2 in FotothekView IMSS ?
title: 3 in IMSSView IMSS ?subject: 2 in FotothekView Language ?
title: 3 in IMSSView Language ?
content: 2 in FotothekThis example clearly indicates the strength ofsimple search and the weakness of complexsearch.
The pattern used by complex search canbe compared with a narrow path in the complexsemantic space.
If selecting the title element thehits of IMSS are found, if the content element ischosen the Fotothek hits are found.
Both, how-ever, are leading to useful hits where ?horses?are central concepts in the resources.
The reasonfor the indicated results are partly caused by verysparsely encoded metadata.
In the case of IMSSthe term ?horses?
is only mentioned in the title,the content element is yet not used.
In the lan-guage case thesaurus information is used to inferfrom the string found in the title element (?spa-tial layout task, farm scenarios?)
to ?horses?.SummaryOnly the first three relations (equality, hypo-nomy, hyperonomy) can be used in a strictlylogical way.
The fourth relation type is of a fuzzynature but occurs most frequently.
To prevent asemantic cycle during searching, the speciallytailored inference engine is restricted to one in-ference step over this fuzzy relation and exploitsall relations only in one direction10.
It is evidentthat the existing ontology does not describe acomplete logical system.In case of the INTERA project we will continueto rely on a wrapper that will map IMDI toOLAC records to allow OAI style of harvesting.In the ECHO project we created optimized in-dexes such that searching can be executed fast,i.e., the knowledge components in XML are sim-ply used as interchange formats allowing for theeasy identification of all structural componentsand for their validation.3 Foundation for Metadata-InteroperabilityIn the previous sections we described the currentstate of the practical work in two projects toachieve semantic interoperability.
The way cho-sen has a number of disadvantages in the long-run:?
In the ECHO project there are no con-cept definitions that adhere to open andemerging standards such as ISO 11179and ISO 12620, and which are availablein validated machine-readable registries.10 It should be noted, however, that advanced infer-ence systems can handle semantic cycles of this na-ture.?
The current definitions do not containhierarchical relations, which could bepart of the concept definitions if agreedupon by the community.?
A contribution from other experts, forexample to improve the definitions andto add other language specific aspects, islargely excluded.?
The representation of the semantic rela-tions between concepts is partly encapsu-lated in a program preventing anyflexibility.
In the ECHO case they arestructurally described with the help ofXML tags, however, it would be muchbetter to provide them in a way that in-ference engines relying on RDF(S) andOWL could operate on them.From the practical work we learned that often thesemantic scope of the metadata elements is notspecified as precisely as seems possible and alsonecessary.
This will allow for a spectrum of us-age that will have effects not only on human in-terpretation, but especially on the way ofmapping relations to chose.
It is obvious fromthis experience that users will not always agreeon the interpretation of the definitions and on thetypes of mappings applied.
At this moment wecannot make final statements in how far hierar-chical relations will be effected by this thatwould constitute an implicit thesaurus as is ex-pected within ISO TC37/SC4.Open Data Category RepositoriesBased on the experience so far it can be recom-mended to include into open repositories onlyconcepts that have been used for a while andtherefore have shown their semantic stabilitywithin a certain community.
For the area of lan-guage resources ISO TC37/SC4 is on the way tocreate such a repository, which is compliant withwidely recognized standards such as ISO 11179and ISO 12620.
Therefore, it makes sense to reg-ister all elements used within IMDI and OLACas data categories in this repository.This will open up several new possibilities forprojects and initiatives: (1) IMDI and OLAC cancreate schemas that define their sets by referringto machine-readable definitions.
For instance, anequality relationship can be directly indicated byreferring to the same data category registry(DCR) entry.
Search engines could make use ofthis information.
(2) It is our experience that pro-jects often like to tailor their own metadata setsdue to their specific needs.
In this case an openregistry would simply allow to create a newschema and to re-use existing definitions asmuch as possible11.
By referring to DCR entriesagain a direct form of interoperability isachieved.We assume that we will have widely recognizedDCRs as currently defined within ISOTC37/SC4.
They should contain the conceptsthat are based on a wide agreement within com-munities.
However, due to the slow acceptanceprocesses within standardization bodies and thedifferent needs that result for example from dif-ferent languages there could be a need for re-searchers to set up their own temporary DCRs.We therefore foresee a large number of datacategory repositories.For the ECHO project the usage of an open DCRis not yet an option.
To be of use for the commu-nity there has to be a wide acceptance.
The do-main of ?cultural heritage?
addressed withinECHO covers too many different disciplines andthe concepts are semantically mostly too differ-ent.
Disciplines such as history of arts, history ofscience and ethnology have to start their disci-pline oriented discussion process to define usefulconcepts and to start building widely recognizedregistries.
What seems necessary is to start creat-ing files with concept definitions that can be eas-ily integrated later into open registries and thatare compliant to emerging standards.Open Relation repositoriesConcept definitions in DCRs are one importantaspect in defining metadata ontologies.
Anotheraspect are repositories that store relations be-tween these concepts.
From our experience in thetwo projects mentioned, it seems required toseparate these two types of information in orderto achieve a high degree of independence andflexibility.
However, other experiences as that ofthe GOLD initiative (Farrar, 2005) indicate thatopinions on this vary largely.Theoretically, it is possible to include all infor-mation that defines a concept into the DCR.
Theconcept ?country?
that is used within IMDI is11 IMDI already provides a step towards this kind offlexibility by allowing projects to define profiles orindividuals to define new key-value pairs.typically a sub-part of a ?continent?.
However,the proper definition of the concept ?country?
inthe context of language resources is not depend-ent on the availability of this hierarchical rela-tion.
But this again may be completely differentfor abstract linguistic concepts such as ?transitiveverb?
where we know that the class relation?transitive-verb isSubClassOf verb?
is part of thedefinition.In general, we argue that whenever it is notstrictly necessary for the proper definition of aconcept, relation aspects should be kept outsideof DCRs as much as possible, since they oftenform a constraint with only little agreement.For the represention of relations in a machine-readable format, RDF(S) seems to be the mostsuitable choice.
In RDF, all relations are repre-sented as tertiary assertions as indicated in Figure1.
Actually, each of these RDF assertions definesa relation between two resources, since the valuecan be an arbitrary web-resource as well.Figure 1 shows a basic RDF assertion specifying thata (web) resource identified by a URI has propertiesthat may have values.Obviously, this simple mechanism allows us tocreate complex repositories of semantic relations.Since all objects of such an assertion can be web-resources we can for example point to conceptsdefined in a DCR and relate them with eachother.From the two mentioned projects we can givetwo typical examples.
From the INTERA projectwe notice that according to our interpretation theconcept ?IMDI:Participant.Role=Collector?
is asub-class of ?OLAC:Creator?
(Figure 2).Figure 2 shows a typical relation that can be found inthe INTERA project.Figure 3 shows a typical relation that can be found inthe ECHO project.resource valuepropertyI:Participant O:CreatorisSubClassOfI:Genre F:IconographymapsToIn the ECHO project we can identify a semanticoverlap between ?IMDI:Genre?
and ?Foto-thek:Iconography?
(Figure 3).We can imagine that RDF will be used by someprojects, initiatives and institutions to establishwidely recognized and used repositories withmapping relations.We also assume that many persons, projects andinstitutions will create their own mappings totune their operations like searching according totheir specific needs, i.e., a large variety of ?prac-tical ontologies?
will emerge.
These practicalontologies may re-use most of the semanticsfound in a repository, or they overwrite a certainnumber of relations or they introduce new rela-tions that are not yet defined elsewhere.In contrast to the ISO data category repositorythat is based on the experiences of the workabout ISO 11179 and ISO 12620, there is nowork yet of how to represent relations for thedomain of language resources.
For INTERA thiscreates the need of using ad hoc solutions.
ISOTC37/SC4 should urgently take up this issue.4 Registries and EnginesGiven the discussion above, we can expect theSemantic Web era to produce a large number ofdata category definitions stored in differentDCRs and mapping relations between thesestored in other repositories.
Amongst these com-ponents there will be some that deserve a largerinterest by the language resource community,since they are maintained by recognized experts,but there will also be many others created withinprojects and institutions or even by individuals tosatisfy only ad-hoc purposes.
Therefore, we needan infrastructure for registering these compo-nents for making them visible and searchable.Current inference engines such as provided byJena12 assume that there is one database of mean-ingful RDF triples.
This would allow us to inte-grate all our mapping relations from the INTERAor ECHO ontologies (such as ?Country isSub-ClassOf Continent?
and ?Place isSubClassOfCountry?
), that is currently part of an XML-based thesaurus.
To arrive at an RDF-based da-tabase instead, we would need to harvest meta-data from the XML-based thesaurus, i.e., we12 Jena: http://jena.sourceforge.netwould first have to write a wrapper that convertsXML structure information into RDF assertions.Further, we would like to harvest RDF triplesfrom different sites, since we need to integratealready existing knowledge.
Two problems canbe foreseen here: (1) How do we know where tofind useful RDF triple instances?
We needmechanisms to register the existence of sites withthat type of information and to semi-formallydescribe the content.
(2) When we harvest triplesfrom such a site we may include knowledge ?metadata ontologies defined in RDF(S) - that isconflicting with what is already available.
Howcan we deal with this and how can we be selec-tive?Currently, there are no answers to these ques-tions.
But they have to be addressed soon.
Alsohere ISO TC37/SC4 could play an importantrole, since it is about infrastructure aspects thathave to be worked out for the language resourcecommunity.5 XML vs RDFWe explained why XML was chosen in repre-senting the knowledge involved in the projectsmentioned.
Mainly short-term arguments guidedus to take this decision.
This may not be the cor-rect decision in the long-term.
Nevertheless, alsoISO TC37/SC4 has chosen to represent datacategory definitions as XML structures includinghierarchical references needed to properly definea concept.The underlying data models of XML and RDFare very different.
XML is based on a tree model,i.e., it has a strong bias towards hierarchies.
Allexpressive power is gained from structural rela-tions, which to a certain extent allow for the rep-resentation of semantic relations.In contrast to this, RDF is based on a loose col-lection of relations.
It is therefore very simple tocombine relations from different RDF reposito-ries into larger collections.
Although implicithierarchies will be difficult to recover.Semantically, RDF Schema offers the user theoption to define the value range of any user-defined relation (property) used in an RDF filewith user-defined classes, while XML only offersbasic data types.
OWL has even more expressivepower.
A good overview is given by Gil andRatnaker, 2001.Summarizing, we would like to emphasize thefollowing two points that need to be taken intoaccount by any follow-up projects of INTERAand ECHO.
Such a project should:?
represent all concept definitions of a resourcemetadata set in an ISO DCR compliant wayand turn them over to RDF-based reposito-ries that may emerge within the disciplines inthe coming years;?
represent relations as much as possible inexternal RDF(S)-based metadata ontologiesusing all needed expressional power ofRDF(S) and OWL so that users can easilyadd their own relations or reformulate exist-ing ones.6 ConclusionThe work on metadata interoperability in the twoprojects mentioned clearly indicate that this typeof work is in its beginning phase.
Ad hoc meth-ods are used to achieve high speed and to guaran-tee efficient exchange of knowledge components,but they form obstacles on the way towards aflexible and open Semantic Web type of infra-structures.
The examples indicate that the chosenmapping strategies lead to the expected results inmany cases.
They also indicate some of the prob-lems that are associated with using specific ele-ments for searching.
Amongst others these arecaused by sparsely filled in metadata descrip-tions, unawareness about the underlying elementsemantics, insufficient mappings between meta-data elements and thesaurus concepts.The usage of ISO 11179 and ISO 12620 compli-ant open Data Category Registries for machinereadable definitions of metadata concepts withinINTERA is a first step in the right direction.However, other disciplines than linguistics lacksuch a widely agreed registry type.
For buildingup and combining repositories of RDF-basedrelations between registered concepts there is yetno infrastructure.
Even in the linguistics domainyet there is no suggestion for standards.
ISOTC37/SC4 should take up this issue, since DataCategory repositories with concept definitionsand relation repositories are mutually dependenton each other to form exploitable knowledgebases.
Due to the many contributions from pro-jects, institutions and even individuals that willdisagree with proposed definitions and relationswe will need an efficient infrastructure for dis-covering and combining useful knowledge com-ponents.ReferencesS.
Bird and M. Liberman.
2001.
A formal frameworkfor linguistic annotation.http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Papers/CIS9901_1999/revised_13Aug99.pdfH.
Brugman and P. Wittenburg.
2001.
The applicationof annotation models for the construction of data-bases and tools.http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/annotation/database/papers/Brugman_Wittenburg/20.2.brugman.pdfS.
Farrar and D.T.
Langendoen.
2003.
Markup and theGOLD Ontology.http://saussure.linguistlist.org/cfdocs/emeld/workshop/2003/paper-terry.htmlY.
Gil and V. Ratnaker.
A Comparison of (Semantic)Markup Languages.
In Proceedings of AAAI 2001.http://trellis.semanticweb.org.expect/web/semanticweb.comparison.html
