Morphological Interfaces to DictionariesMichael MaxwellLinguistic Data Consortium3600 Market St, Suite 810Philadelphia, PA 19104Maxwell@ldc.upenn.eduWilliam PoserLinguistics, University of Pennsylvania3600 Market St, Suite 501Philadelphia, PA 19104billposer@alum.mit.eduAbstractLanguages with complex morphologies present difficulties for dictionaries users.
One solution to thisproblem is to use a morphological parser for lookup of morphologically complex words, including fullyinflected words, without the user needing to explicitly know the morphology.
We discuss the sorts ofmorphologies which cause the greatest need for such an interface.1 IntroductionWhen it comes to dictionaries, not all languagesare created equal.
Quite apart from the fact thatmore effort has been put into lexicography forsome languages than for others, languages vary inhow they lend themselves to word look up.Generations of English-speaking students havebeen told, when they were uncertain how to spell aword, to look it up in the dictionary.
How one issupposed to look up a word when one does notalready know how to spell it has been the source ofmuch distress for those same students.For English, the chief obstacle to dictionarylookup is the orthography.1But for otherlanguages, the structure of the language itself is theproblem, and in particular the language smorphology.
Unless the dictionary user isexplicitly familiar with that morphology,determining the citation form of a given word canbe quite difficult.One solution, at least for electronic dictionaries,is to create an interface that uses a morphologicalparser to find the root or stem of the full wordprovided by the user, and then automatically lookup that form (or its citation form), thereby shiftingthe need to explicitly know the morphology (andthe choice of citation form) from the user to thecomputer.
Such interfaces are described in Breidtand Feldweg 1997, Pr?sz?ky and Kis 2002,Streiter, Knapp, Voltmer et al 2004, etc.But building a morphological parser is a non-trivial task, and a simpler solution where1Orthography presents difficulties for dictionarylookup is difficult in languages which are not writtenalphabetically, and for which the lexical entriestherefore cannot be alphabetized.
While we do notaddress that issue in this paper, specialized front ends todictionaries have been used for lookup in suchlanguages; see e.g.
Bilac, Baldwin and Tanaka 2002.possible would be preferable.
In this paper, wediscuss the sort of morphology that makes a parserinterface especially desirable.2 Morphology and Citation FormsWe need to clarify here that we are concernedwith how difficult dictionary lookup is foraverage users, that is, for users who may not beovertly familiar with the morphology of thelanguage.
Linguists and (usually) languageteachers are often familiar enough with themorphology that they can compute the citationform from any arbitrary inflected form, but manyother users will not be able to do so.Certain kinds of morphology can make itdifficult for average users to find the citation formof an inflected word.
Usually this is inflectionalmorphology, simply because forms related byderivational morphology are often given separatelistings.
However, some languages have productiveand regular derivational morphology, so that formsrelated by derivational affixation may not in fact belisted.
Furthermore, in some languages (such asAthabaskan languages, see below) the derivationaland inflectional morphology interact so as to makefinding a citation form especially difficult.
Finally,the boundary between inflectional and derivationalmorphology is not always clear whether to alinguist or to the end user.We now turn to the specifics of how morphologycan impede dictionary lookup.
For languages withany degree of morphology, one form of theparadigm for a given part of speech is usuallychosen as the citation form.
Problems may arise forwords which lack the chosen form (e.g.
pluraliatantum words, such as scissors).
In any case, usersmust generally be told what form to look for.Of course, for languages with only a smallamount of productive morphology, it does not takemuch sophistication to come up with a citationform from an inflected form.
For English, thecitation form of an inflected verb is generallyfound by stripping off one of a handful of suffixes(and sometimes undoing other spelling rules).Irregular verbs present complications, but theirfrequency makes them unlikely candidates forlookup, except by language learners.
At any rate,irregular words can be placed in minor entries,separately alphabetized from the major entries, andcross-referencing the latter.In practice, users may not even need to knowhow to remove the suffixes, since when searchingfor walks or walking they will find walk, andgenerally make the connection.If a language is exclusively suffixing, not even alarge amount of inflectional affixation need standin the way of lookup.
If the user cannot figure outthe citation form of a word, he can simply look upthe first few letters to find the entry.
Thus, evenlanguages like Turkish or Quechua often pose littleproblem for lookup.
(Nevertheless, for some users,it may not be obvious that the citation form thusfound corresponds to the inflected word, see e.g.Corris, Manning, Poetsch et al 2004: 47.
)More problematic for lookup is prefixation.2Since dictionary words are usually alphabetizedfrom the beginning of the word to the end (left toright in most writing systems), in theory the userwould have to strip prefixes before doing lookup.An obvious work-around would be to alphabetizewords in (exclusively) prefixing languages fromright to left.
Alternatively, the dictionary couldprovide an index alphabetized from right to left,where the user could find the citation form, thenlook up that form in the main part of thedictionary.
To our knowledge, this solution has notbeen employed, although this may be due to thepaucity of exclusively prefixing languages.The reverse alphabetization solution would notwork for languages which employ both prefixingand suffixing, such as Tzeltal (Mayan).
But evenhere the situation is not too bad if the number ofprefixes is small, as in fact it is in Tzeltal: thecommon prefixes are h-/k-, a-/aw-, and s-/y-, andstripping these probably does not present much ofa problem to most users of the Vocabulario tzeltalde Bachajon (Slocum and Gerdel 1965).The real problem for languages having bothprefixes and suffixes arises when the language hasa large number of prefixes, or when the languageproductively employs compounding or incorpor-ation, which can have the same effect fordictionary lookup as productive prefixation.2If the citation form is prefixed, this may also causeproblems for alphabetization, since many words mayfall into the same section of the alphabet.
This problemis well-known, but is not the focus of our discussion.German is a notorious example of the difficultiesoccasioned by compounding, and Nahuatl is anexample of a language having incorporation.In Nahuatl, indefinite direct objects can often beincorporated into the verb: chi:lkwa to eat chili iscomposed of the verb stem kwa to eat , precededby the incorporated noun chi:l chili .
The na?veuser may succeed in finding the incorporated nounin a printed dictionary, but may be at a loss todecipher the rest of the word, since kwa is not anoun suffix in Nahuatl.3A greater difficulty for the average dictionaryuser is nonconcatenative morphology, such asinfixes, partial reduplication, and templaticmorphology.
In Tagalog, for example, there is anaffix -um- marking actor focus, which is infixedfollowing a word-initial consonant (Schachter andOtanes 1972).
Furthermore, the Tagalogimperfective aspect is indicated by partial re-duplication.
Thus the word bumibili is a form ofthe verb root bili to buy , where the reduplicationis bi-, and the infix -um- is stuck into the middle ofthis reduplicated syllable.In some cases, the user can (or should!)
beexpected to understand this and deal withconverting bumibili, say, to the appropriate citationform.
And in fact dictionary writers often assist byproviding partly inflected forms: in the case ofTagalog, for instance, citation forms generallyinclude the focus affixes.
But as the complexity ofthe morphology increases, relying on the user toguess the citation form from an inflected formbecomes less of an option.
At the same time,explicitly including multiple inflected forms in thedictionary becomes cumbersome, even impossible.In the following subsections, we detaildifficulties occasioned by the particular morpho-logies of Semitic and Athabaskan languages.2.1 Semitic LanguagesArabic, like most other Semitic languages,employs templatic morphology, in which affixescomposed of vowels can be interdigitated betweenconsonants of the root.
Affixation can also modifythe root consonants, frequently by gemination.
Forexample, a typical Arabic root ktb can appear ininflected forms as diverse as katab, kattab, ktatab,ktanbab, and kutib (Spencer 1991).
Some of thismorphology is derivational, and some inflectional,but it all poses a problem for users.Moreover, Arabic is ordinarily written withoutmany of the vowels.
While this may ease the3In practice, this problem in Nahuatl is amelioratedby the fact that incorporation is not highly productive.Therefore the most common cases of incorporationshould arguably be listed in the dictionary.problem caused by the interdigitated vowels, itmeans that the dictionary user may have moredifficulty distinguishing root consonants fromaffixal consonants, since the vowels are not presentin the written form to help parse the word.Traditional Arabic dictionaries have been rootbased; that is, the head word of a lexical entry isthe root, with all derivational and inflectionalmorphology removed.
Listed derived forms appearas subentries under a given root (and inflectedforms which must be listed are generally includedas variant forms within the subentry for a givenderived form).
Because of the difficulty undoingArabic derivational and inflectional morphologyposes for the average user, so-called alphabeticdictionaries have become increasingly popular.
Inan alphabetic dictionary, derived forms serve asheadwords, so that alphabetization is done over theentire set of lexemes, whether root or stem.Root-based dictionaries and alphabetic diction-aries each have strengths and weaknesses.
A root-based dictionary gathers the information on relatedforms into one place, rather than scattering itthroughout the dictionary, as is the case for analphabetic dictionary.
On the other hand, a root-based dictionary requires a much more explicitunderstanding of Arabic morphology than manyusers possess.
Even so, finding the citation form ofan irregular plural or an irregular verb in analphabetic dictionary can be a daunting task.In summary, Arabic morphology forces thedictionary writer to choose between a root-basedformat and an alphabetic format; both approacheshave their disadvantages.
Similar problems obtainfor other languages with templatic morphologies.Fortunately, these problems can be overcome byinterposing a morphological parser between theuser and the electronic dictionary.2.2 Athabaskan LanguagesThe difficulties that Athabaskan languages posefor dictionary lookup have been detailed in Poser2002; here we give an outline of the problem forone such language, Carrier.Like other Athabaskan languages, Carrier ispredominantly prefixing, with verbs carryingnumerous prefixes.
Each verb can have tens oreven hundreds of thousands of forms.
But the sheernumber of verb forms is not all that different fromother agglutinative languages such as Finnish orTurkish.
The real problem is that Carrier prefixesare a mixture of inflectional and derivationalmorphemes, with the derivational affixes oftenappearing outside of inflectional affixes.Furthermore, it is not infrequently the case thatthere are prefixes which obligatorily combine witha root in a certain meaning.
In effect, Athabaskanlanguages have discontinuous verb stems.4Forinstance, the Carrier verb to be red consists ofthe root k'un with the valence prefix l-immediately preceding the root and the prefix d-several positions to the left, giving forms like:dilk'un  you (sg.)
are redduzk'un  I am redhudulk'un  they are redhudutilk'un they will be redNote that some subject markers follow the d-while others precede it.
Also notice that theallomorphy sometimes collapses two affixes into asingle segment (s+l  z in duzk'un).For dictionaries, the implication is that there is ingeneral no contiguous or invariant portion of theverb that can serve as the citation form.
Themorphology is primarily prefixal, but the existenceof extensive stem variation and some suffixationmeans that the stem is not a good citation form,and that ordering forms form right-to-left will notkeep related forms close together.
Worse, thephonological material that contributes the basicmeaning of the word is not, in general, contiguous.This means that any citation form will not be easilyextracted by an unsophisticated user.
Moreover,no simple sorting will keep related forms together.Worse, many verb roots are highly abstract, sothat a form can only be given an Englishtranslation on the basis of the root together withone or more prefixes.
Examples are found in theclassificatory verbs.
For example, the verb rootmeaning to give takes distinct derivationalaffixes depending on the type of object beinghandled: ball-shaped objects, names, houses, non-count objects, long rigid objects, contents of opencontainers, liquids, fluffy stuff and theseclassifiers may not be adjacent to the root.In light of the difficult of dictionary lookup inAthabaskan languages, one approach has been tolist, for each verb, a single form, as in the majordictionary of Navajo (Young and William Morgan1987).
However, this requires the user to be able toanalyze a verb form and convert it to the citationform.
This is a non-trivial task even for fluentnative speakers; it is difficult or impossible forlanguage learners.
Indeed, the problem ofdictionary use for Navajo is so acute that the Din?
(Navajo) College has instituted a one semestercourse Navajo Grammar and AppliedLinguistics , which is largely devoted to teaching4These are somewhat analogous to English verb-particle combinations such as bring a matter up , inwhich the verbal inflection (and often a direct object)intervenes between the verb root and the particle.
Butthe intervening inflectional morphology in Athabaskanis vastly more complex than that of English.college-level native speakers of Navajo how to usethe dictionary of their own language.The other major approach to dictionary makingin Athabaskan languages is to list individualmorphemes.
In order to use such a dictionary, theuser must be able to analyze the word into root andaffixes.
But the root may have many shapes.
Forexample, the root meaning to go around in a boattakes forms such as , , , , , and .Although there is a pattern to these changes, it iscomplex if not irregular.
The resulting difficultyfor dictionary lookup should be obvious.A root-based lexicon has been published forNavajo (Young, Morgan and Midgette 1992).
Ithas the virtue of being comprehensive, and ofavoiding duplication.
For example, the detailedmeaning of a verb root can be explained only once,in the entry for that root, rather than in each ofmany entries for forms derived from that root.The problem with this approach is that it requireseven more grammatical knowledge on the part ofthe user than traditional Athabaskan dictionaries,together with an understanding of an elaborateprocess for analyzing forms, looking up theircomponents, and constructing the meaning of theform from its components.
As a result, whileanalytic dictionaries are useful for linguists, butmost people, including both language learners andnative speakers, find them very difficult.In sum, the morphological structure ofAthabaskan languages forces difficult choices onthe dictionary writer, and results in a steep learningcurve for the user.
Again, this is the sort oflanguage structure where a morphological interfacecan make a crucial difference.3 ConclusionWe have outlined ways in which the structure oflanguages can make a morphological parser as afront end for dictionary lookup attractive.There are more uses to such technology than justdictionary lookup.
If the morphology engine is atransducer, it can be used for generation as well asfor parsing.
Such a bidirectional engine can beused to generate the paradigm of any stem.
Whilethis is of little interest to native speakers, it may beof great assistance to language learners.Another application would be to provide whatamounts to a virtual interlinear text withmorpheme glosses for any text in electronic form.To be sure, this text would not be disambiguated,unless a knowledgeable user put forth the effort, orunless an automatic disambiguator (tagger) wasprovided.
Nevertheless, interlinear text, even in anambiguous form, could be a useful for linguistsand perhaps language learners.In sum, a morphological transducer connected toan electronic dictionary can provide valuable aidfor both native speakers and language learners.4 AcknowledgementsOur thanks to Tim Buckwalter and MohamedMaamouri of the Linguistic Data Consortium andJonathan Amith for their comments on earlierversions of this paper.ReferencesBilac, S., T. Baldwin, et al (2002).
Bringing theDictionary to the User: the FOKS system.COLING-2002.Breidt, E. and H. Feldweg (1997).
"AccessingForeign Languages with COMPASS.
"Machine Translation Journal, specialissue on New Tools for Human Translators12: 153-174.Corris, M., C. Manning, et al (2004).
"How Usefuland Usable are Dictionaries for Speakersof Australian Indigenous Languages?
"International Journal of Lexicography 17:33-68.Poser, W. J.
(2002).
Making AthabaskanDictionaries Usable.
Proceedings of theAthabaskan Languages Conference.
G.Holton.
Fairbanks, Alaska NativeLanguage center, University of Alaska:136-147.Pr?sz?ky, G. and B. Kis (2002).
Context-SensitiveElectronic Dictionaries.
COLING-2002.Schachter, P. and F. T. Otanes (1972).
TagalogReference Grammar.
Berkeley, Universityof California Press.Slocum, M. and F. Gerdel (1965).
Vocabulariotzeltal de Bachajon.
Mexico, SummerInstitute of Linguistics.Spencer, A.
(1991).
Morphological theory : anintroduction to word structure ingenerative grammar.
Oxford, UK ;Cambridge, Mass., Basil Blackwell.Streiter, O., J. Knapp, et al (2004).
Bridging theGap between Intentional and IncidentalVocabulary Acquisition.
ALLC/ ACH2004, G?teborg University, Sweden.Young, R. W., W. Morgan, et al (1992).Analytical Lexicon of Navajo.Albuquerque, University of New MexicoPress.Young, R. W. and S. William Morgan (1987).
TheNavajo Language: a Grammar andColloquial Dictionary.
Albuquerque,University of New Mexico Press.
