The Construction of A Chinese Shallow TreebankRuifeng XuDept.
Computing,The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,Kowloon, Hong Kongcsrfxu@comp.polyu.edu.hkQin LuDept.
Computing,The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,Kowloon, Hong Kongcsluqin@comp.polyu.edu.hkYin LiDept.
Computing,The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,Kowloon, Hong Kongcsyinli@comp.polyu.edu.hkWanyin LiDept.
Computing,The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,Kowloon, Hong Kongcswyli@comp.polyu.edu.hkAbstractThis paper presents the construction of amanually annotated Chinese shallow Treebank,named PolyU Treebank.
Different fromtraditional Chinese Treebank based on fullparsing, the PolyU Treebank is based onshallow parsing in which only partial syntacticalstructures are annotated.
This Treebank can beused to support shallow parser training, testingand other natural language applications.Phrase-based Grammar, proposed by PekingUniversity, is used to guide the design andimplementation of the PolyU Treebank.
Thedesign principles include good resource sharing,low structural complexity, sufficient syntacticinformation and large data scale.
The designissues, including corpus material preparation,standard for word segmentation and POStagging, and the guideline for phrase bracketingand annotation, are presented in this paper.Well-designed workflow and effectivesemiautomatic and automatic annotationchecking are used to ensure annotation accuracyand consistency.
Currently, the PolyU Treebankhas completed the annotation of a1-million-word corpus.
The evaluation showsthat the accuracy of annotation is higher than98%.1 IntroductionA Treebank can be defined as a syntacticallyprocessed corpus.
It is a language resourcecontaining annotations of information at variouslinguistic levels such as words, phrases, clauses andsentences to form a ?bank of linguistic trees?.
Thereare many Treebanks built for different languagessuch as the Penn Treebank (Marcus 1993), ICE-GB(Wallis 2003), and so on.
The Penn ChineseTreebank is an important resource (Xia et al 2000;Xue et al 2002).
Its annotation is based onHead-driven Phrase Structure Grammar (HPSG).The corpus of 100,000 Chinese words has beenmanually annotated with a strict quality assuranceprocess.
Another important work is the SinicaTreebank at the Academic Sinica, Taiwan ( Chen etal.
1999; Chen et al 2003).
Information-based CaseGrammar (ICG) was selected as the languageframework.
A head-driven chart parser wasperformed to do phrase bracketing and annotating.Then, manual post-editing was conducted.According to the report, The Sinica Treebankcontains 38,725 parsed trees with 329,532 words.Most reported Chinese Treebanks, including thetwo above, are based on full parsing which requirescomplete syntactical analysis including determiningsyntactic categories of words, locating chunks thatcan be nested, finding relations between phrases andresolving the attachment ambiguities.
The output offull parsing is a set of complete syntactic trees.Automatic full parsing, however, is difficult toachieve good performance.
Shallow parsing (orpartial parsing) is usually defined as a parsingprocess aiming to provide a limited amount of localsyntactic information such as non-recursive nounphrases, V-O structures and S-V structures etc.
Sinceshallow parsing can recognize the backbone of asentence more effectively and accurately with lowercost, people has in recent years started to work usingresults from shallow parsing.
A shallow parsedTreebank can be used to extract information fordifferent applications especially for training shallowparsers.Different from full parsing, annotation to ashallow Treebank is only targeted at certain localstructures in a sentence.
The depth of ?shallowness?and the scope of annotation vary from differentreported work.
Thus, two issues in shallow Treebankannotation is (1) what information and (2) to whatdepths the syntactic information should be annotated.Generally speaking, the degree of ?shallowness?
andthe syntactical labeling are determined by therequirement of the serving applications.
The choiceof full parsing or shallow parsing is dependent onthe need of the application including resources andthe capability of system to be developed (Xia et al2000; Chen et al 2000; Li et al 2003).
Currently,there is no large-scale shallow annotated Treebankavailable as a publicly resource for training andtesting.In this paper, we present a manually annotatedshallow Treebank, called the PolyU Treebank.
It istargeted to contain 1-million-word contemporaryChinese text.
The whole work on the PolyUTreebank follows the Phrase-based Grammarproposed by Peking University (Yu et al 1998).
Inthis language framework, a phrase, lead by a lexicalword(or sometimes called a content word) as a head,is considered the basic syntactical unit in a Chinesesentence.
The building of the PolyU Treebank wasoriginally designed as training data for a shallowparser used for Chinese collocation extraction.
Fromlinguistics viewpoint, a collocation occurs only inwords within a phrase, or between the headwords ofrelated phrases (Zhang and Lin 1992).
Therefore, theuse of syntactic information is naturally consideredan effective way to improve the performance ofcollocation extraction systems.
The typical problemslike doctor-nurse (Church and Hanks 1990) could beavoided by using such information.
Whenemploying syntactical information in collocationextraction, we restrict ourselves to identify the stablephrases in the sentences with certain levels ofnesting.
Thus it has motivated us to produce ashallow Treebank.A natural way to obtain a shallow Treebank isthrough extracting shallow structures from a fullyparsed Treebank.
Unfortunately, all the availablefully parsed Treebank, such as the Penn Treebankand the Sinica Treebank, are annotated usingdifferent grammars than our chosen Phrase-basedGrammar.
Also, the sizes of these Treebank aremuch smaller in scale to be useful for training ourshallow parser.This paper presents the most important designissues of the PolyU Treebank and the quality controlmechanisms.
The rest of this paper is organized asfollows.
Section 2 introduces the overview anddesign principles.
Section 3 to Section5, presentthe design issues on corpus material preparation, thestandard for word segmentation and POS tagging,and the guideline for phrase bracketing and labeling,respectively.
Section 6 discusses the qualityassurance mechanisms including a carefullydesigned workflow, parallel annotation, andautomatic and semi-automatic post-annotationchecking.
Section 7 gives the current progress andfuture work.2 Overview and Design PrinciplesThe objective of this project is to manuallyconstruct a large shallow Treebank with highaccuracy and consistency.The design principles of The PolyU Treebank are:high resource sharing ability, low structuralcomplexity, sufficient syntactic information andlarge data scale.
First of all, the design andconstruction of The PolyU Treebank aims to provideas much a general purpose Treebank as possible sothat different applications can make use of it as aNLP resource.
With this objective, we chose tofollow the well-known Phrase-based Grammar asthe framework for annotation as this grammar iswidely accepted by Chinese language researchers,and thus our work can be easily understood andaccepted.Due to the lack of word delimitation in Chinese,word segmentation must be performed before anyfurther syntactical annotation.
High accuracy ofword segmentation is very important for this project.In this project, we chose to use the segmented andtagged corpus of People Daily annotated by thePeking University.
The annotated corpus containsarticles appeared in the People Daily Newspaper in1998.
The segmentation is based on the guidelines,given in the Chinese national standard GB13715,(Liu et al 1993) and the POS tagging specificationwas developed according to the ?GrammaticalKnowledge-base of contemporary Chinese?.According to the report from Peking University, theaccuracy of this annotated corpus in terms ofsegmentation and POS tagging are 99.9% and 99.5%,respectively (Yu et al 2001).
The use of such matureand widely adopted resource can effectively reduceour cost, ensure syntactical annotation quality.
Withconsistency in segmentation, POS, and syntacticannotation, the resulting Treebank can be readilyshared by other researchers as a public resource.The second design principle is low structuralcomplexity.
That means, the annotation frameworkshould be clear and simple, and the labeled syntacticand functional information should be commonlyused and accepted.
Considering the characteristics ofshallow annotation, our project has focused on theannotation of phrases and headwords while thesentence level syntax are ignored.Following the framework of Phrase-basedGrammar, a base-phrase is regarded as the smallestunit where a base-phrase is defined as a ?stable?
and?simple?
phrase without nesting components.
Studyon Chinese syntactical analysis suggests that phrasesshould be the fundamental unit instead of words in asentence.
This is because, firstly, the usage ofChinese words is very flexible.
A word may havedifferent POS tags serving for different functions insentences.
On the contrary, the use of Chinesephrases is much more stable.
That is, a phrase hasvery limited functional use in a sentence.
Secondly,the construction rules of Chinese phrases are nearlythe same as that of Chinese sentences.
Therefore, theanalysis of phrases can help identifying POS andgrammatical functions of words.
Naturally, it shouldbe regarded as the basic syntactical unit.
Usually, abase-phrase is driven by a lexical word as itsheadword.
Examples of base-phrases include baseNP, base VP and so on, such as the sample shownbelow.Using base-phrases as the start point, nested levelsof phrases are then identified, until the maximumphrases (will be defined later) are identified.
Sincewe do not intend to provide full parsing information,there has to be a limit on the level of nesting.
Forpractical reasons, we choose to limit the nesting ofbrackets to 3 levels.
That means, the depth of ourshallow parsed Treebank will be limited to 3.
Thisrestriction can limit the structural complexity to amanageable level.Our nested bracketing is not strictly bottom up.That is we do not simply extend from base-phraseand move up until the 3rd level.
Instead, we firstidentify the maximal-phrase which is used toidentify the backbone of the sentence.
Themaximal-phrase provides the framework underwhich the base-phrases of up to 2 levels can beidentified.
The principles for the identification ofscope and depth of phrase bracketing are brieflyexplained below and the operating procedure isindicated by the given order in which theseprinciples are presented.
More details is given inSection 5.Step 1: Annotation of maximal-phrase which isthe shortest word sequence of maximallyspanning non-overlapping edges which plays adistinct semantic role of a predicate.
Amaximal-phrase contains two or more lexicalwords.Step 2: Annotation of base-phrases within amaximal-phrase.
In case a base-phrase and amaximal-phrase are identical and themaximal-phrase is already bracketed in Step 1, nobracketing is done in this step.
For each identifiedbase-phrase, its headword will be marked.Step 3: Annotation of next level of bracketing,called mid-phrase which is expended from abase-phrase.
A mid-phrase is annotated only if it isdeemed necessary.
The process starts from theidentified base-phrase.
One more level ofsyntactical structure is then bracketed if it existswithin the maximal-phrase.The third design principle is to provide sufficientsyntactical information for natural languageapplication even though shallow annotation does notnecessarily contain complete syntactic informationat sentence level.
Some past research in Chineseshallow parsing were on single level base-phrasesonly (Sun 2001).
However, for certain applications,such as for collocation extraction, identification ofbase-phrases only are not very useful.
In this project,we have decided to annotate phrases within threelevels of nesting within a sentence.
For each phrase,a label is be given to indicate its syntacticalinformation, and an optional semantic or structurallabel is given if applicable.
Furthermore, theheadword of a base-phrase is annotated.
We believethese information are sufficient for many naturallanguage processing research work and it is alsomanageable for this project within its workingschedule.Fourthly, aiming to support practical languageprocessing, a reasonably large annotated Treebank isexpected.
Studies on English have shown thatTreebank of word size 500K to 1M is reasonable forsyntactical structure analysis (Leech and Garside1996).
In consideration of the resources availableand the reference of studies on English, we have setout our Treebank size to be one million words.
Wehope such a reasonably large-scale data caneffectively support some language research, such ascollocation extraction.We chose to use the XML format to record theannotated data.
Other information such as originalarticle related information (author, date, etc.
),annotator name, and other useful information arealso given through the meta-tags provided by XML.All the meta-tags can be removed by a program torecover the original data.We have performed a small-scale experiment tocompare the annotation cost of shallow annotationand full annotation (followed Penn ChineseTreebank specification) on 500 Chinese sentencesby the same annotators.
The time cost in shallowannotation is only 25% of that for full annotation.Meanwhile, due to the reduced structural complexityin shallow annotation, the accuracy of first passshallow annotation is much higher than fullannotation.3 Corpus Materials PreparationThe People Daily corpus, developed by PKU,consists of more than 13k articles totaling 5M words.As we need one million words for our Treebank, wehave selected articles covering different areas indifferent time span to avoid duplications due toshort-lived events and news topics.
Our selectiontakes each day?s news as one single unit, and thenseveral distant dates are randomly selected amongthe whole 182 days in the entire collection.
Wehave also decided to keep the original articles?structures and topics indicators as they may beuseful for some applications.4 Word Segmentation and Part-of-SpeechTaggingThe articles selected from PKU corpus are alreadysegmented into words following the guidelinesgiven in GB13715.
The annotated corpus has a basiclexicon of over 60,000 words.
We simply use thissegmentation without any change and the accuracyis claimed to be 99.9%.Each word in the PKU corpus is given a POS tag.In this tagging scheme, a total of 43 POS tags arelisted (Yu et al 2001).
Our project takes the PKUPOS tags with only notational changes explained asfollows:The morphemes tags including Ag (Adjectivesmorphemes), Bg, Dg, Ng, Mg, Rg, Tg, Qg, and Ugare re-labeled as lowercase letters, ag, bg, dg, ng, mg,rg, tg, qg and ug, respectively.
This modification isto ensure consistent labeling in our system where thelower cases are used to indicate word-level tags andupper cases are used to indicate phrase-level labels.5 Phrase Bracketing and AnnotationPhrase bracketing and annotation is the core partof this project.
Not only all the original annotatedfiles are converted to XML files, results of ourannotations are also given in XML form.
The metatags provided by XML are very helpful for furtherprocessing and searching to the annotated text.
.Note that in our project, the basic phrasal analysislooks at the context of a clause, not a sentence.
Here,the term clause refers the text string ended by somepunctuations including comma (,), semicolon (;),colon (:), or period (.).
Certain punctuation markssuch as ?
?, ?<?, and ?>?
are not considered clauseseparators.
For example,is considered having two clauses and thus will bebracketed separately.
It should be pointed out that heset of Chinese punctuation marks are different fromthat of English and their usage can also be different.Therefore, an English sentence and their Chinesetranslation may use different punctuation marks.For example, the sentenceis the translation of the English ?Tom, John, andJack go back to school together?
, which uses ?
?rather than comma(,) to indicate parallel structures,and is thus considered one clause.Each clause will then be processed according tothe principles discussed in Section 2.
The symbols?[?
and ?]?
are used to indicate the left and rightboundaries of a phrase.
The right bracket isappended with syntactic labels as described in thegeneral form of [Phrase]SS-FF, where SS is amandatory syntactic label such as NP(noun phrase)and AP(adjective phrase), and FF is an optional labelindicating internal structures and semantic functionssuch as BL(parallel), SB(a noun is the object of verbwithin a verb phrase).
A total of  21 SS labels and20 FF labels are given in our phrase annotationspecification.
For example, the functional label BLidentifies parallel components in a phrase asindicated in the example .As in another example shown below,the phrase  is a verb phrase, thus it islabeled as VP.
Furthermore, the verb phrase can befurther classified as a verb-complement type.
Thusan additional SBU function label is marked.
Weshould point out that since the FF labels are notsyntactical information and are thus not expected tobe used by any shallow parsers.
The FF labels carrystructural and/or semantic information which are ofhelp in annotation.
We consider it useful for otherapplications and thus decide to keep them in theTreebank.
Appendix 1 lists all the FF labels used inthe annotation.5.1  Identification of Maximal-phrase:The maximal-phrases are the main syntacticalstructures including subject, predicate, and objects ina clause.
Again, maximal-phrase is defined as thephrase with the maximum spanning non-overlappinglength, and it is a predicate playing a distinctsemantic role and containing more than one lexicalword.
That means a maximal-phrase contains at leastone base-phrase.
As this is the first stage in thebracketing process, no nesting should occur.
In thefollowing annotated sentence,(Eg.1)there are two separate maximal-phrases,, and.
Notethat  is considered a base-phrase, but not amaximal-phrase because it contains only one lexicalword.
Unlike many annotations where the object ofa sentence is included as a part of the verb phrase,we treat them as separate maximal-phrases both dueto our requirement and also for reducing nesting.If a clause is completely embedded in a largerclause, it is considered a special clause and given aspecial name called an internal clause .
We willbracket such an internal clause as a maximal phrasewith the tag ?IC?
as shown in the following example,5.2  Annotation of Base-phrases:A base-phrase is the phrase with stable, close andsimple structure without nesting components.Normally a base-phrase contains a lexical word asheadword.
Taking the  maximal-phraseinEg.1 as an example,  and, are base-phrases in thismaximal-phrase.
Thus, the sentence is annotated asIn fact, and are alsobase-phrases.
is not bracketed because it is asingle lexical word as a base-phrase without anyambiguity and it is thus by default not beingbracketed.
is not furtherbracketed because it overlaps with a maximal-phrase.Our annotation principle here is that if a base-phraseoverlaps with a maximal-phrase, it will not bebracketed twice.The identification of base-phrase is done onlywithin an already identified maximal-phrase.
Inother words, if a base-phrase is identified, it must benested inside a maximal-phrase or at most overlapswith it.
It should be pointed out that theidentification of a base-phrase is the mostfundamental and most important goal of Treebankannotation.
The identification of maximal-phrasescan be considered as parsing a clause using atop-down approach.
On the other hand, theidentification of a base-phrase is a bottom upapproach to find the most basic units within amaximal-phrase.5.3  Mid-Phrase Identification:Due to the fact that sometimes there may be moresyntactic structures between the base-phrases andmaximal-phrases, this step uses base-phrase as thestarting point to further identify one more level ofthe syntactical structure in a maximal-phrase.
TakesEg.1 as an example, it is further annotated aswhere the underlined text shows the additionalannotation.As we only limit our nesting to three levels, anyfurther nested phrases will be ignored.
Thefollowing sentence shows the result of ourannotation with three levels of nesting:However, a full annotation should have 4 levels ofnesting as shown below.
The underlined text is the4th level annotation skipped by our system.5.4  Annotation of HeadwordIn our system, a ?#?
tag will be appended after aword to indicate that it is a headword of thebase-phrase.
Here, a headword must be a lexicalword rather than a function word.In most cases, a headword stays in a fixed positionof a base-phrase.
For example, the headword of anoun phrase is normally the last noun in this phrase.Thus, we call this position the default position.
If aheadword is in the default position, annotation is notneeded.
Otherwise, a ?#?
tag is used to indicate theheadword.For example, in a clause,,is a verb phrase, and the headwordof the phrase is , which is not in the defaultposition of a verb phrase.
Thus, this phrase is furtherannotated as:Note that  is also a headword, but since itis in the default position, no explicit annotation isneeded.6 Annotation and Quality AssuranceOur research team is formed by four people at theHong Kong Polytechnic University, two linguistsfrom Beijing Language and Culture University andsome research collaborators from Peking University.Furthermore, the annotation work has beenconducted by four post-graduate students inlanguage studies and computational linguistics fromthe Beijing Language and Culture University.The annotation work is conducted in 5 separatestages to ensure quality output of the annotationwork.
The preparation of annotation specificationand corpus selection was done in the first stage.Researchers in Hong Kong invited two linguistsfrom China to come to Hong Kong to prepare for thecorpus collection and selection work.
A thoroughstudy on the reported work in this area wasconducted.
After the project scope was defined, theSS labels and the FF labels were then defined.
ATreebank specification was then documented.
TheTreebank was given the name PolyU Treebank toindicate that it is produced at the Hong KongPolytechnic University.
In order to validate thespecifications drafted, all the six members firstmanually annotated 10k-word material, separately.The outputs were then compared, and the problemsand ambiguities occurred were discussed andconsolidated and named Version 1.0.
Stage 1 tookabout 5 months to complete.
Details of thespecification can be downloaded from the projectwebsite www.comp.polyu.edu.hk/~cclab.In Stage 2, the annotators in Beijing were theninvolved.
They had to first study the specificationand understand the requirement of the annotation.Then, the annotators under the supervision of a teammember in Stage 1 annotated 20k-word materialstogether and discussed the problems occurred.During this two-month work, the annotators weretrained to understand the specification.
Theemphasis at this stage was to train the annotators?good understanding of the specification as well asconsistency by each annotator and consistency bydifferent annotators.
Further problems occurred inthe actual annotation practice were then solved andthe specification was also further refined ormodified.In Stage 3, which took about 2 months, eachannotator was  assigned 40k-word material each inwhich 5k-words material were duplicate annotatedto all the annotators.
Meanwhile, the team membersin Hong Kong also developed a post-annotationchecking tool to verify the annotation format, phrasebracketing, annotation tags, and phrase marks toremove ambiguities and mistakes.
Furthermore, anevaluation tool was built to check the consistency ofannotation output.
The detected annotation errorswere then sent back to the annotators for discussionand correction.
Any further problems occurred weresubmitted for group discussion and minormodification on the specification was also done.In stage 4, each annotator was dispatched with oneset of 50k-word material each time.
For eachdistribution, 15k-word data in each set weredistributed to more than two annotators in duplicatesso that for any three annotators, there would be 5Kduplicated materials.
When the annotators finishedthe first pass annotation, we used the post-annotationchecking tool to do format checking in order toremove the obvious annotation errors such as wrongtag annotation and cross bracketing.
However, it wasquite difficult to check the difference in annotationdue to different interpretation of a sentence.
Whatwe did was to make use of the annotations done onthe duplicate materials to compare for consistency.When ambiguity or differences were identified,discussions were conducted and a result used by themajority would be chosen as the accepted result.
There-annotated results were regarded as the GoldenStandard to evaluate the accuracy of annotation andconsistency between different annotators.
Theannotators were required to study this GoldenStandard and go back to remove  similar mistakes.The annotated 50k data was accepted only after this.Then, a new 50k-word materials was distributed andrepeated in the same way.
During this stage, theambiguous and out-of-tag-set phrase structures weremarked as OT for further process.
The annotationspecification was not modified in order to avoidfrequent revisit to already annotated data.
About 4months were spent on this stage.In Stage 5, all the members and annotators weregrouped and discuss the OT cases.
Some typical newphrase structure and function types were appendedin the specification and thus the final formalannotation specification was established.
Using thisfinal specification, the annotators had to go back tocheck their output, modify the mistakes andsubstitute the OT tags by the agreed tags.
Currently,the project was already in Stage 5 with 2 months ofwork finished.
A further 2 months was expected tocomplete this work.Since it is impossible to do all the checking andanalysis manually, a series of checking andevaluating tools are established.
One of the tools isto check the consistency between text corpus filesand annotated XML files including checking theXML format, the filled XML header, and whetherthe original txt material is being altered by accident.This program ensures that the XML headerinformation is correctly filled and during annotationprocess, no additional mistakes are introduced due totyping errors.Furthermore, we have developed and trained ashallow parser using the Golden Standard data.
Thisshallow parser is performed on the original text data,and its output and manually annotated result arecompared for verification to further remove errorsNow, we are in the process of developing aneffective analyzer to evaluate the accuracy andconsistency for the whole annotated corpus.
For theexactly matched bracketed phrases, we checkwhether the same phrase labels are given.
Abnormalcases will be manually checked and confirmed.
Ourfinal goal is to ensure the bracketing can reach 99%accuracy and consistency.7 Current Progress and Future WorkAs mentioned earlier, we are now in Stage 5 of theannotation.
The resulting annotation contains 2,639articles selected from PKU People Daily corpus.These articles contains 1, 035, 058 segmentedChinese words, with on average, around 394 wordsin each article.
There are a total of 284, 665bracketed phrases including nested phrases.
Asummary of the different SS labels used are given inTable 1.Table 1.
Statistics of annotated syntactical phrasesFor each bracketed phrase, if its FF label does notfit into the corresponding default pattern, (like forthe noun phrase(NP), the default grammaticalstructure is that the last noun in the phrase is theheadword and other components are the modifiers,using PZ tags), its FF labels should then beexplicitly labeled.
The statistics of annotated FF tagsare listed in Table 2.Table 2.
Statistics of function and structure tagsFor the material annotated by multiple annotatorsas duplicates, the evaluation program has reportedthat the accuracy of phrase annotation is higher than99.5% and the consistency between differentannotators is higher than 99.8%.
As for otherannotated materials, the quality evaluation programpreliminarily reports the accuracy of phraseannotation is higher than 98%.
Further checking andevaluation work are ongoing to ensure the finaloverall accuracy achieves 99%.Up to now, the FF labels of 5,255 phrases areannotated as OT.
That means about 1.8% (5,255 outof a total of 284,665) of them do not fit into anypatterns listed in Table 2.
Most of them are propernoun phrase, syntactically labeled as PP.
We areinvestigating these cases and trying to identifywhether some of them can be in new function andstructure patterns and give a new label.It is also our intention to further develop our toolsto improve the automatic annotation analysis andevaluation program to find out the potentialannotation error and inconsistency.
Othervisualization tools are also being developed tosupport keyword searching, context indexing, andannotation case searching.
Once we complete Stage5, we intend to make the PolyU Treebank dataavailable for public access.
Furthermore, we aredeveloping a shallow parser and using The PolyUTreebank as training and testing data.AcknowledgementThis project is partially supported by the Hong KongPolytechnic University (Project Code A-P203) andCERG Grant (Project code 5087/01E)ReferencesBaoli Li, Qin Lu and Yin Li.
2003.
Building aChinese Shallow Parsed Treebank for CollocationExtraction, Proceedings of CICLing 2003:402-405Fei Xia, et al 2000.
Developing Guidelines andEnsuring Consistency for Chinese Text AnnotationProceedings of LREC-2000, GreeceFeng-yi Chen, et al 1999.
Sinica Treebank,Computational Linguistics and Chinese LanguageProcessing, 4(2):183-204G.
N. Leech, R.Garside.
1996.
Running a grammarfactory: the production of syntactically analyzedcorpora or ?treebanks?, Johansson and Stenstron.Honglin Sun, 2001.
A Content Chunk Parser forUnrestricted Chinese Text, Ph.D Thesis, PekingUniversity, 2001Keh-jiann Chen et al 2003.
Building and UsingParsed Corpora (Anne Abeill?
ed.
s) KLUWER,DordrechtKenneth Church, and Patrick Hanks.
1990.
Wordassociation norms, mutual information, andlexicography, Computational Linguistics, 16(1):22-29Marcus, M. et al 1993.
Building a Large AnnotatedCorpus of English: The Penn Treebank,Computational Linguistics, 19(1): 313-330.Nianwen Xue, et al 2002.
Building a Large-ScaleAnnotated Chinese Corpus, Proceedings ofCOLING 2002, Taipei, TaiwanSean Wallis, 2003.
Building and Using ParsedCorpora (Anne Abeill?
eds) KLUWER, DordrechtShiwen Yu, et al 1998.
The GrammaticalKnowledge- base of contemporary Chinese: acomplete specification.
Tsinghua University Press,Beijing, ChinaShiwen Yu, et al 2001.
Guideline of People DailyCorpus Annotation, Technical report, BeijingUniversityShoukang Zhang and Xingguang Lin, 1992.Collocation Dictionary of Modern ChineseLexical Words, Business Publisher, ChinaYuan Liu, et al 1993.
Segmentation standard forModern Chinese Information Processing andautomatic segmentation methodology.
TsinghuaUniversity Press, Beijing, ChinaAppendix 1 The structural and semantic FF labelsAppendix 2 Example of an Annotated Article
