Senseval-3: The Italian All-words TaskMarisa ULIVIERIILC-CNRVia Moruzzi 1Pisa, Italy, 56124marisa.ulivieri@ilc.cnr.itFrancesca BERTAGNAILC-CNRVia Moruzzi 1Pisa, Italy, 56124francesca.bertagna@ilc.cnr.itElisabetta GUAZZINIILC-CNRVia Moruzzi 1Pisa, Italy, 56124elisabetta.guazzini@ilc.cnr.itNicoletta CALZOLARIILC-CNRVia Moruzzi 1Pisa, Italy, 56124glottolo@ilc.cnr.itAbstractThis paper describes the Italian all-wordssense disambiguation task for Senseval-3.
Theannotation procedure and criteria together withthe encoding of multiwords are presented.1 IntroductionThis paper describes the Italian all-words sensedisambiguation task for Senseval-3: about 5000words were manually disambiguated according tothe ItalWordNet (IWN) word senses.
The firstsection briefly describes of the corpus and thelexical reference resource.
The second sectioncontains some general criteria adopted for theannotation of the corpus and illustrated by a seriesof examples.
Issues connected to the treatment ofphenomena typically found in corpora, e.g.abbreviations, foreign words, jargon, locutions arediscussed.
Furthermore, the encoding ofcompounds, metaphorical usages, and multiwordunits is described.
Problems connected with i) thehigh granularity of sense distinctions in the lexicalresource and ii) unsolvable ambiguities of thecontexts are dealt with.
Finally, it is evidenced howthe annotation exercise can be of help in updatingor tuning IWN, by adding missing senses and/orentries.2 The Corpus and the Lexical ResourceThe Italian all-words corpus consists of about13600 word tokens, extracted from the SI-TAL 1,Italian Syntactic Semantic Treebank (ISST).
The1 SI-TAL (Integrated System for the Automatictreatment of Language)  was a National Project devotedto the creation of large linguistic resources and softwaretools for Italian written and spoken language processing.ISST (Montemagni et al 2003) consists of i) ageneric corpus of about 215,000 tokens, extractedfrom different periodicals and newspaper articles(La Repubblica, Il Corriere della Sera) and ii) aspecialised corpus of about 90,000 tokens, withtexts belonging to the financial domain (Il Sole-24Ore).
The annotated corpus consists of about5000 words and comprises a selection of Italiannewspaper articles about various topics: politics,sport, news, etc.
The common data format is XML.The reference lexical resource used for theSenseval-3 sense tagging task is the lexical-semantic database IWN, developed within theframework of two different research projects:EuroWordNet (Vossen 1999) and SI-TAL, duringwhich IWN was extended by the insertion ofadjectives, adverbs and a subset of proper nouns.The IWN database contains about 64,000 wordsenses corresponding to about 50,000 synsets.
Ithas inherited the EWN linguistic model (Alonge etal., 1998) which provides a rich set of semanticrelations, and the first nucleus of verbs and nouns.IWN was structured around the notion of synset, aset of synonymous word meanings, and theinformation is encoded in the form of lexical-semantic relations between pairs of synsets.
TheIWN database comprises also an Interlingual Index(ILI), based on the Princeton WordNet 1.5 used tolink wordnets of different languages so that it ispossible to go from the Italian words to similarwords in English language.
IWN has also inheritedfrom EWN the Top Ontology (TO), a hierarchicalstructure of language-independent concepts,reflecting fundamental semantic distinctions.
Viathe ILI, all the concepts in the wordnet are linkedto the Top Ontology.Association for Computational Linguisticsfor the Semantic Analysis of Text, Barcelona, Spain, July 2004SENSEVAL-3: Third International Workshop on the Evaluation of Systems3 Annotation Procedure and CriteriaFor the Italian all-words task , the annotationwas carried out manually, word by word followingthe text.
For each word, annotators were suppliedwith information about The tagging operationconsisted in the assignment of a sense number toeach full word or sequence of words correspondingto a single unit of sense, such as compounds,idioms, metaphorical usages, etc.
The sensenumber which refers to a specific synset wasassigned by the annotators according to the lexicalresource IWN.
The assignment of a sense numberallows tagged words to inherit a series of semanticinformation ranging from meronymy, synonymy,hyperonymy, etc.
up to the fundamental semanticdistinctions of the Top Ontology.The annotation of the corpus was restricted tonouns (2583), verbs (1858), adjectives (748), agroup of multiword expressions (97 ?
verb phrases,adjectival phrases and noun phrases) and a set ofgeneral proper nouns (163).
Two linguistsdisambiguated the texts.
The annotators madeevery effort to match a text word to a IWN sense,but sometimes this could not be done, since therequired sense was not present in the referenceresource.
Cases of difficult sense attribution and ofdisagreement between annotators were marked andleft to further discussion and refinement.Frequently, a tight interaction between the IWNdevelopers and the annotators was needed.
By theway, this collaboration produced a double-sidedeffect: on the one side, the lexical resource gainedin coverage, being enlarged through the addition ofmissing entries and/or senses and, on the otherside, the corpus encoding has been made possible.3.1 Non-annotated casesNotwithstanding this, some cases have been left?empty?.
They are in particular terms with notstandard meaning, often absent from dictionaries2as, for example: i) abbreviations (C.T.Commissario Tecnico, Technical Officer); ii)foreign words (e.g.
off limits); iii) jargon (e.g.fumantino adj.
una persona fumantina, an irascibleperson); iv) terms semantically modified throughevaluative suffixation (e.g.
vetturetta, small car);v) locutions (e.g.
per carit?
!, for goodness?
sake!
;ci mancherebbe, that?s all we need); vi) words, orsequences of words, indicating human associationgroups (Caschi blu, the Blue Berets, Croce Rossa,Red Cross, etc.
), vii) nicknames (Scarpa d'oro, lit.Gold Shoe ?
to say a good football player, Primula2 Some of them are very technical-specialistic termsor expressions extracted, in particular, from the soccerdomain, e.g.
andare in percussione/in sovrapposizione(lit.
to go in percussion/in overlapping).Rossa, the Scarlet Pimpernel, a mafioso boss, etc.
);viii) neologisms (e.g.
komeinista berlusconiano,concerning Khomeini, Berlusconi).This type of specific neologisms or idiomaticexpressions have a high frequency in corpora.Corpus texts are extracted from newspaper articlesabout politics, sports, news, etc.
in which a highnumber of words currently used in the everydaylanguage of media appear.
Rarely a lexicalresource contains this new-born expressions hencenot completely meeting the requirements ofsemantic annotation.3.2 Fully-compositional ExpressionsIt may be the case that annotators had to dealwith complex expressions where the meaning iscompositional, e.g.
Ministero della Difesa(Department of Defence).
Even if this sequence ofwords could be perceived by native speakers as asingle multiword expression, the reference lexicalresource did not present it as an independent entry.This is a case of fully compositional expression,whose interpretation depends functionally on theinterpretation of its constituents.
They were,therefore, decomposed and annotated according totheir parts.3.3 Metaphorical UsagesFigurative and metaphorical usages were hard tomap to the correct sense: sometimes, it has beennecessary to accept for them, at least, acompromise solution.
Consider the followingcontext (where bold marks the figurative usage):due lavoratori su tre sono a casa = esseredisoccupatoout of three workers, two are at home = to beunemployed)The interpretation of the context presupposes anextra-linguistic knowledge, which cannot beencoded at the lexical-semantic level ofdescription, even if the collocation with lavoratori(workers) allows to correctly disambiguate.
In thiscase a (at home) represents an instance of a nonlexicalised metaphor, therefore it was not possibleto assign the appropriate figurative sense.
Acompromise solution was adopted and theindividual components of the phrase wereannotated, even if the correct semantic contributionof the multiword expression was lost.Another interesting case is provided by theoccurrences of some metaphoric uses of verbs.Consider these examples:?
?
andata male in Spagna e non si ?qualificata alle ?, lit.
in Spain it went badly anddid not qualify for the?
il rapporto and?
avanti fino alle nozze, lit.the relationship went ahead until weddingIn the first example, even if the verb isfrequently used with this meaning, it was notpossible to attribute a correct sense number, sinceit was not accounted for in the lexical resource.In the second case, the verbal locution andareavanti was not present in IWN.
In this context,andare has been annotated with andare11, ?toprogress?, which incorporates the meaningprovided by andare plus the adverb avanti (to goahead).All the above mentioned cases of non-annotationor compromise annotation evidence thedivergences between lexicon encoding, on the onehand, in which senses are by necessity?decontextualised?
to be able to capturegeneralizations (Calzolari et al 2002) and corpusannotation, on the other, where ?contextualization?plays a predominant role and, consequently,figurative senses, idioms, metaphorical usages,multiwords, are highly frequent.3.4 High granularity of sense distinctionsOne of the main reasons for disagreementbetween annotators could arise from the high IWNgranularity in sense distinction.
Often, whendeciding a sense, too subtle distinctions could turnout to be a disadvantage for the annotators.Consider the verb sentire (to hear): IWN makes avery fine-grained distinction, where exactly 17senses are available.
Some of them overlap or areso close each other to be undistinguishable forhuman annotators and may be problematic forsystems.
In the following example:Passano pochissimi secondi e qualcuno sente unurlo= ?
and someone hears a cryIn IWN, two senses of the verb are overlapping:sentire 1 ?
percepire con l'orecchio (to hear)sentire 2 ?
essere in grado di percepire suoni conl'orecchio (to be able to hear sounds)These distinctions are too subtle to be used incorpus annotation.
The annotator has chosensense1, but (in order to allow for the coarse-grained scoring of automatic annotation) asensemap of words, a table where the overlappingsenses are accounted for, was provided.3.5 Context AmbiguityCorpus annotation strategy allowed to handlecases where synsets are numerous and present fine-grained distinctions, not easily mappable to thecorpus contexts or cases in which the context couldraise a double interpretation.
Annotators were notforced to make a totally subjective choice andcould assign multiple senses (?and?
operator).Lo Zaire ?
uno dei paesi pi?
pericolosi di tuttal'Africa = The Zaire is one of the most dangerouscountries of AfricaIn IWN, sense distinctions are as follows:Paese1?
territorio con un governo sovrano e unapropria organizzazione politica e amministrativa,(territory with its own political and administrativeorganization)Paese3?
insieme di individui legati da stessetradizioni storiche, lingua, costumi, (group ofpeople with same historical traditions, languagesand customs)Since annotators could not achieve a satisfactorydisambiguation, they take into account both senses,sense1 and sense3.
It was not clear, indeed, if thedangerousness refers to the country (sense1) or tothe people (sense3).
During the annotation,multiple senses have been assigned to about 90lemmas, that appeared arbitrary or impossible todisambiguate.3.6 Multiwords annotationThe main difference between Senseval-3 andSenseval-2 is that in the all-words annotation taskannotators are faced with complex lexical itemscoined, generally, with many technical terms,collocations, idioms, compounds, frozenexpressions or multiwords, which were not presentin the lexical-sample task.
With the termmultiwords we refer to all sequences of wordswhose meaning cannot be built compositionallyfrom the meanings of its component words.
Thesemantic contribution of individual components ifannotated separately does not give reason of thefinal meaning of the expression which can beconsidered a sort of ?new concept?, e.g.
farlafranca (to get away with it), prendere parte (totake part), muro a secco (dry-stone wall).In IWN a set of lexicalised expressions werealready included and the correct sense to assignwas, hence, available: perdere i sensi (to faint),fare fuoco (to fire), passare in rivista (to review)etc.
Many multiword expressions found in thecorpus were added to IWN as semanticallycomplex units, e.g.
vedersela brutta (to have anarrow escape), essere in corso (to be in progress)etc.
The annotation task has given, hence, theopportunity to establish a strong interactionbetween annotators and lexicographers in decidingwhat kind of sequences were real multiwordexpressions and, above all, which were worthwhilefrom a linguistic point of view to introduce in thelexical resource.The multiword expressions (about 60) wereannotated with the following information:multiword ID; Part_of_Speech lemma; function ofthe components words: head, satellite.The individuation of the headword of thesequence has been made on the basis of a lexicalcriterion: for noun-phrases, the head of thesequence was considered the noun, the adjectivefor adjectival?phrases, the verb for verb-phrases.Once recognized the head, the other constituentsplay the role of satellites and the whole sequencereceives the part-of-speech of the head.Here is an example encoded in XML:<head id="cs.morph074.mw_704"sats="cs.morph074.mw_706cs.morph074.mw_707">uscita</head>clamorosamente<sat id="cs.morph074.mw_706">di</sat><sat id="cs.morph074.mw_707">scena</sat><answer head="cs.morph074.mw_704"senseid="uscire di scena.V.1"/>Our intention was only to provide anexamplification of the methodology we adoptedwhen trying to handle multiword expressions.Even if the recognition and treatment of poly-lexical units is obviously one of the most importantissues emerging in the process of contextinterpretation, in this paper we did not addresstheoretical issues concerning their exactidentification.ReferencesAlonge Antonietta, Nicoletta Calzolari, PiekVossen, Laura Bloksma, Irene Castellon, MariaAntonia Marti and Wim Peters.
1998.
TheLinguistic Design of the EuroWordNet Database.Special Issue on EuroWordNet.
Computers andthe Humanities, Vol.32, N. 2-3: pag.91-115.Calzolari Nicoletta, Claudia Soria, FrancescaBertagna and Francesco Barsotti.
2002.Evaluating Lexical Resources Using Senseval.Journal of Natural Language Engineering,Special Issue of Senseval-2, vol.VIII(4), pag.375-390.Kilgarriff Adam, Rosenzweig Joseph.
2000.English Senseval: Report and Results.
Proc.Second Conf on Language Resources andEvaluation Athens,  pag.
1239-1244.Montemagni Simonetta, Barsotti Francesco,Battista Marco Calzolari Nicoletta, CorazzariOrnella, Lenci Alessandro, Pirrelli Vito,Zampolli Antonio, Fanciulli Francesca;Massetani Maria, Raffaelli Remo, BasiliRoberto, Pazienza Maria Teresa, Saracino Dario,Zanzotto Fabio, Mana Nadia, Pianesi Fabio,Delmonte Rodolfo.
2003.
The syntactic-semanticTreebank of Italian.
An Overview.
LinguisticaComputazionale a Pisa vol.
I, pag.461-492.Vossen Piek (ed.)
1999.
EuroWordNet GeneralDocument.
The EWN CD-ROM (see also:http://www.hum.uva.nl/ ).
