A Qualitative Comparison of Scientific and Journalistic Texts from thePerspective of Extracting DefinitionsIgal GabbayDocuments and LinguisticTechnology GroupDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of LimerickLimerick, IrelandIgal.Gabbay@ul.ieRichard F. E. SutcliffeDocuments and LinguisticTechnology GroupDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of LimerickLimerick, IrelandRichard.Sutcliffe@ul.ieAbstractIn this paper we highlight a selection offeatures of scientific text which distinguish itfrom news stories.
We argue that features suchas structure, selective use of past tense, voiceand stylistic conventions can affect questionanswering in the scientific domain.
Wedemonstrate this through qualitativeobservations made while working onretrieving definitions to terms related tosalmon fish.1 IntroductionAn information retrieval system informs on theexistence (or non-existence) and whereabouts ofdocuments relating to the request of a user(Lancaster, 1968).
On the other hand, a questionanswering (QA) system allows a user to ask aquestion in natural language and receive a conciseanswer, possibly with a validating context(Hirschman and Gaizauskas, 2001).Questions asking about definitions of terms (i.e.,?What is X??)
occur frequently in the query logs ofsearch engines (Voorhees, 2003).
However, due totheir complexity, recent work in the field ofquestion answering has largely neglected them andconcentrated instead on answering factoidquestions for which the answer is a single word orshort phrase (Blair-Goldensohn et al, 2003).
Muchof this work has been motivated by the questionanswering track of the Text REtrieval Conference(TREC), which evaluates systems by providingthem with a common challenge.In a recent project inspired by our experiences inTREC (Sutcliffe et al, 2003), a system was builtfor extracting definitions of technical terms fromscientific texts.
The topic was salmon fish biology,a very different one from that of news articles.What, then, is the effect of domain on theapplicability of QA?
In this paper we attempt toanswer this question, focusing on definitions anddrawing on our findings from previous projects.The rest of the paper is structured as follows:First, we review recent related work.
Second, wesummarise the objectives, methods and findings ofthe SOK-I QA project, named after the sockeyesalmon.
Third, we compare the characteristics ofscientific text with those of newspaper articlesillustrating our points with examples from ourSOK-I collection as well from the New YorkTimes, CLEF 1994 Los Angeles Times collectionand AQUAINT corpus.
Fourth, we discuss theimplications that these have for definitional QA.Finally, we draw conclusions from the study.2 Recent Related WorkZweigenbaum (2003) describes biomedicine as aspecialised domain and argues that it is notnecessarily simpler than an open domain as issometimes assumed.
He identifies the followingcharacteristics:?
A  highly specialised language for both queriesand articles;?
A potential difference in technical levelbetween user questions and target documents;?
A problem concerning the variable (andpossibly unknown) reliability of sourcedocuments and hence that of answers drawnfrom them;?
A potential for using a taxonomy of generalclinical questions to route queries toappropriate knowledge resources.The gap in technical level between non-expertusers and target documents is addressed byKlavans and Muresan (2001).
Their system,DEFINDER, mines consumer-oriented full textmedical articles for terms and their definitions.The usefulness and readability of the definitionsretrieved by DEFINDER were both rated by non-experts as being significantly higher than those ofonline dictionaries.
However, Klavans andMuresan do not focus specifically on thecharacteristics of the source documents in theirdomain.The view of Teufel and Moens (2002) thatsummarization of scientific articles requires adifferent approach from the one used insummarization of news articles may perhaps applyto QA.
The innovation of their work is in definingprinciples for content selection specifically forscientific articles.
As an example they observe thatinformation fusion (the comparison of results fromdifferent sources to eliminate mis-information andminimize the loss of data caused by unexpectedphrasing) will be inefficient when summarizingscientific articles, because new ideas are usuallythe main focus of scientific writing, whereas in thenews domain events are frequently repeated over ashort time.The lack of redundancy as a feature of technicaldomains is also mentioned by Moll?
et al (2003).They argue that because of this and the limitedamount of text, data-intensive approaches, whichare often used in TREC, do not work well intechnical domains.
Instead, intensive NLPtechniques are required.
They also mention formalwriting and the use of technical terms not definedin standard lexicons as additional features.3 Answering Definition Questions Related toSalmon (the SOK-I Project)Many of the observations in this paper are basedon a recent study concerned with answeringdefinition related to salmon (Gabbay, 2004).
Whilea full treatment of the work falls outside the scopeof this paper, we summarise  the key points here.The objectives of the project were:?
To test the effectiveness of lexical patternswithout deep linguistic knowledge in capturingdefinitions in scientific papers;?
To discover simple features which indicatesentences containing definitions;?
To study the stylistic characteristics ofdefinitions retrieved from scientific text.We chose the terminology-rich field of salmonfish biology as the research domain.
A collectionof 1,000 scientific articles (Science Direct, 2003)matching the keyword ?salmon?
was used as thesource of definitions.
Most of the documents werein agricultural and biological sciences.
Eachsentence in the articles was indexed as a separatedocument.A system was then developed which could takeas input a term (e.g.
?smolt?)
and carry out thefollowing steps:1.
Retrieve all sentences in the collectioncontaining the term;2.
Extract any portions of these whichmatched a collection of syntactic patterns.The patterns used were similar to the ones usedby Hearst (1992), Joho and Sanderson (2000) andLiu et al (2003) to retrieve hyponyms from anencyclopedia, descriptive phrases from newsarticles and definitions from Web pages,respectively.To evaluate the system four test collections ofterms were used: 42 terms which were suggestedby salmon researchers, and three collectionscontaining 3,920, 2,000 and 1,120 termsrespectively.
The latter were extracted from adatabase on the Web called FishBase (2003).
Foreach collection, the output corresponding to a termwas inspected manually and each phrase matchinga pattern was judged to be either Vital, Okay,Uncertain or Wrong.While a complete discussion of the results andmethods used to obtain them can be found inGabbay (2004), the main quantitative finding ofthe project was that techniques adopted couldachieve a Recall of up to 60%.Drawing from our experiences in SOK-I andTREC, we turn in the next section to some specificobservations regarding differences between salmonbiology texts and newspaper articles.4 Scientific and Journalistic Texts Compared4.1 OutlineFrom our QA studies in the salmon biology fieldas well as experiences with news articles in TRECand CLEF, many interesting differences betweenthese areas have come to light which wesummarise here.
The comparison is divided intosix features: structure, tense, voice, references,terminology and style.4.2 StructureScientific articles normally follow the structureknown as IMRAD (Introduction, Methods, Results,and Discussion).
This is the most commonorganisation of scientific papers that report originalresearch (Day, 1998).
For example, the guidelinesto authors submitting papers to the journalAquaculture (Elsevier Author Guide, 2003) specifythe following required sections: Abstract,Keywords, Introduction, Methods and Materials,Results, Discussion, Conclusion, Acknowledg-ments and References.The structure of a news story is often describedas an inverted pyramid, with the most essentialinformation at the top (Wikipedia, 2004).
Themost important element is called the lead and iscomparable to the abstract of scientific articles butlimited to one or two sentences (leads are oftenabsent in longer feature articles).The introduction of a scientific paper on theother hand often begins with general statementsabout the significance of the topic and its history inthe field; the ?news?
is generally given later (Teufeland Moens, 2002).4.3 TenseIn scientific writing it is customary to use pasttense when reporting original work and presenttense when describing established knowledge(Day, 1998).
For example, the following sentencereports an accepted fact:?The idea behind using short-term temperaturemanipulations to mark juvenile fish otoliths isto alter the appearance of D- and L-zones in oneor more increments to produce an obviouspattern of events.?
(SD-1)Contrast this with the sentence?Otoliths (sagittal otoliths) were taken fromeach fish in the total sample or a subsample ofthe total catch.?
(SD-2)which describes a technique used specifically inthe reported study.
Therefore, it is reasonable toexpect that verbs in the past tense will beconcentrated in the Methods and Results sections.The past tense seems to dominate journalisticwriting.
In news reporting the past tense isconsidered slower, whereas the present tense isused for dramatic effect (Evans, 1972).
Thefollowing excerpt gives a sense of urgency due tothe use of the present progressive:?Pacific salmon contaminated by industrialpollutants in the ocean are carrying the chemicalsto Alaska?s lakes??
(NYT-1)4.4 VoiceThe passive voice is a major stylistic feature ofscientific discourse where according to Ding(1998) it represents the world in terms of objects,things and materials.
Therefore, grammaticalsubjects are more likely to refer to inanimateobjects  than to humans.Journalistic prose generally uses the active voicewhich is thought to assist in readingcomprehension but also reflects the focus of newsreporting on people and organizations (and indeed80% of the definition questions in TREC wereabout a person or an organisation).
For example,compare the first two sentences of a reportappearing in the Brief Communication section ofthe journal Nature to the lead of the same report asit was printed in popularized form in the New YorkTimes:?Pollutants are widely distributed by theatmosphere and the oceans.
Contaminants canalso be transported by salmon and amplifiedthrough the food chain.?
(NAT)?Pacific salmon contaminated by industrialpollutants in the ocean are carrying thechemicals to Alaska?s lakes, where they mayaffect people and wildlife??
(NYT-1)In the first excerpt the subject is thecontaminants being transported by the salmon(passive), whereas in the second the subject is thesalmon carrying them (active).4.5  CitationsPreviously published work is cited frequently inscientific text using a consistent format such as theHarvard author-year citation style which is beingused in this paper.
Most of the citations are silent(i.e., both the name(s) and the date are enclosed inbrackets) and often appear at the end of sentences.In the news domain, sources are often quoteddirectly.
If the source is another publication, it ismentioned but rarely referenced in a detailedformat with volume, issue, page numbers etc.For example, the author of the study which waspublished in Nature is quoted directly:?
?They die in such huge numbers that it almostlooks like you can walk across the lakes?, anauthor of the of the study Dr. Jules Blais, said?.
(NYT-1)People can also be quoted indirectly by reportedspeech as in the following example,?The salmon act as biological pumps, Dr.
Blaissaid??
(NYT-1)4.6  TerminologySpecialised terms abound in scientific writingand constitute a jargon.
Such terms do not usuallyappear in news stories.
For example, in the entireTREC AQUAINT collection the term ?smolt?appears eight times but more than 1,300 times inthe SOK-I collection we created for our project.The term ?smoltification?
which appears almost600 times in SOK-I is missing entirely fromAQUAINT.Journalistic prose relies much less on jargon.Journalists tend to favour short common wordsover long infrequent ones.
Compare thevocabulary of Nature:?Here we show that groups of migratingsockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) can actas bulk-transport vectors of persistent industrialpollutants known as polychlorinated biphenyls(PCBs), which they assimilate from the oceanand then convey over vast distances back totheir natal spawning lakes.
After spawning, thefish die in their thousands - delivering theirtoxic cargo to the lake sediment and increasingits PCB content by more than sevenfold whenthe density of returning salmon is high.?
(NAT)to the same story in the New York Times:?After spending most of their lives in the ocean,where they absorb widespread industrialchemicals like PCB?s, sockeye salmon flock toAlaska?s interior lakes in huge numbers tospawn and then die.
Each salmon accumulatesjust a small quantity of PCB?s.
But when thefish die together in the thousands, theirdecaying carcasses produce a sevenfoldincrease in the PCB concentrations of thespawning lakes, the study found.?
(NYT-1)Note, for example, that the abbreviation ?PCB?
isnever expanded in the New York Times report.Presumably, the precise chemical name is of littleinterest to the average reader of the Times,whereas in scientific text there is a need to avoidany technical ambiguity.
The Nature report alsouses the more technical terms ?vectors?
?assimilate?and ?sediment?.4.7  StyleApart from a particular citation style, which is adominant feature of scientific text, entities such asspecies or chemical compounds are usually writtenaccording to standard nomenclature and format.For example, the common name of an animalspecies is normally followed by the binomialscientific name in italics and often bracketed:?Here we show that groups of migratingsockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) canact??
(NAT)News stories usually only use the common name ofa species (e.g.
sockeye salmon).In the next section we will see how such featuresaffect definitional QA.5 Implications for Definitional QA5.1  StructureBlair-Goldensohn, McKeown and Schlaikjer(2003) and Joho and Sanderson (2000) whoworked in the news domain observed thatdefinitions are likely to be found nearer thebeginning of the document than its end.
Theyrelied on relative and absolute sentence position asa feature indicating the presence of definitions.However, our observations suggest that at least inthe SOK-I collection, sentence position (eitherrelative or absolute) is not a good indicator of textcontaining definitions.
This might be the result ofthe structured organisation of scientific papers,where each section is more self-contained thanparagraphs are in news reports.
We expected tofind most of the definitions in the Introduction butother sections yielded many definitions.
Early inthe project we considered discarding theReferences section during the document pre-processing stage but later discovered it can containdefinitions  such as:?Canthaxanthin: a pigmenter for salmonids?
(SD-3)However, definitions from different sections ofthe paper may differ in nature and style.
Forinstance, definitions extracted from the Methodsare more technical:?Dry matter eaten was defined as dry matterwaste feed collected divided by recoverypercentage, subtracted from the dry matter fed.?
(SD-4)It is worth exploring whether certain types ofterms are more likely to be defined in particularsections.
A similar approach was suggested byShah at al.
(2003) for extracting keywords fromfull-text papers in genetics.5.2 TenseSince the present tense is often used to stateestablished knowledge, we expected that lexicalpatterns in the present tense would be more likelyto match definitions to terms.
We observed thatmany of the wrong answers in our output  matchedthe past tense version of the copular pattern(TERM was/were DEFINITION).
Sometimes,however, actions performed on or by the term canelucidate it.
This is especially common in theMethods section of papers.
For example, the term?Secchi disc?
is defined in FishBase as:?A 20 cm diameter disc marked in 2 black and2 white opposing quadrants, lowered into thewater.
The average of the depth at which itdisappears from sight and the depth at which itreappears when lowered and raised in the watercolumn is the Secchi disc reading, a measure oftransparency.
?We retrieved the following answer which wasjudged as Okay:?Secchi disc was used to measure watervisibility (m of visibility) at 1400h??
(SD-5)5.3  VoiceCertain lexical patterns for definitions are inpassive voice.
For example the patternDEFINITION is termed TERM matched thefollowing sentence in the SOK-I collection:?The best-known physical damage caused byaggression is inflicted on the fins and is termedfin damage, fin erosion or fin rot.?
(SD-6)On the other hand definitions to technical termsin news stories are more likely to be attached totheir definers?experts such as ?biologists?
in thefollowing example:?human illness from the virus will probablyremain rare since humans are likely to remainwhat biologists call ``dead-end hosts': they canbe infected, but their immune systems almostalways prevent the virus from multiplyingenough to be passed back to mosquitoes andthen to other hosts.?
(NYT-2)5.4 CitationsOne of the most common definition patterns is aterm followed by its definition in brackets:?Grilse (fish maturing after 1.5 years in seawater)?
(SD-7)In our first experiment we observed that thepattern falsely matched citations, and references tofigures and tables as in the following case:?redd (Fleming, 1998)?
(SD-8)These were eliminated by creating a list ofstopwords which are typical to bracketedreferences (e.g., ?et al?, ?fig.
?, years).Sometimes we encountered names of cited authorswhich matched a term to be defined or part of it(e.g.
Fry, Fish).
In the future these names need tobe disambiguated.5.5 TerminologyDefinitions in scientific text are generally moretechnical and precise than in the news domain.
Forexample, in SOK-I we matched the followingdefinition of smolt:?In Atlantic salmon culture, smolt is usuallydefined as a juvenile salmon that is able tosurvive and grow normally in sea water.?
(SD-9)In a newspaper we may find ?smolts?
defined as inthe following sentence:?Young, six-inch-long first-year salmon, calledby the old Anglo-Saxon name of smolts,migrate to two main oceanic feeding areas fromtheir home streams in New England??
(NYT-3)In the last definition the focus was on the word?smolt?
which may be foreign to many newspaperreaders.
On the other hand, the readers of scientificpapers on salmon biology are probably familiarwith the term but may need to know its exactusage.Scientific names of species are taxonomicallyinformative to biologists but would normally meanlittle to a non-expert.
For instance, in  scientifictext ?steelhead trout?
would be followed by itsscientific name Oncorhynchus mykiss which tellsthe informed reader it is a species of the samegenus to which other pacific salmons belong.
In anews articles, we found the following sentences:?But in this case, the endangered animal is thesteelhead trout, a relative of the salmon??
(LA-1)?Copper River king salmon, magnificent seabeasts as big and fleshy as Chinese templedogs, had been running??
(LA-2)Often definitions of species and other terms willjust burden the readers of a newspaper andtherefore are unnecessary.
For example, unlikebiologists, they do not require an exact definitionof ?salt water?
which specifies the concentration ofsalt or of ?colour?
in the context of salmon meatquality.Sometimes definitions retrieved from scientifictext were found to contain terms which would haveto be defined in a news article.
For example?smolt?
can be defined in terms of degree days?the product of the daily water temperature,multiplied by the number of days it takes thesalmon to reach the smolt stage.Even though the papers in the SOK-I collectionseemed to target a homogenous audience, it waspossible to find definitions which are suitable fordifferent levels of expertise.
For instance, thesystem retrieved the  chemical name?(3,3'-dihydroxy-,-carotene-4,4'-dione)?
(SD-10)in response to the query ?astaxanthin?.
Such ananswer, although incomplete, could satisfy anexpert in biochemistry.
Another answer was:?Astaxanthin is an approved colour additive inthe feed of salmonids?
(SD-11)The first definition was found in a biochemistrypaper on the digestability and accumulation ofastaxanthin, whereas the second one was extractedfrom a fishery research paper which discussespotential issues for human health and safety fromnet-pen salmon farming.
The readers of the secondpaper may be experts on fish biology but notnecessarily on chemicals, food safety or evensalmon farming, whereas the first paper is morelimited to a single discipline.5.6  StyleThe standardised forms of species and chemicalnames in scientific text lend themselves toinformation extraction techniques which would notbe effective in the news domain.
Templates couldbe created for certain categories of biologicalterms.
For example, for the category Species wecan fill the slots for the scientific name, taxonomicfamily or order, distribution, life cycle, synonym,and threats to the species; In our experiments thepattern TERM (DEFINTION) was effective inrecognising the scientific name when the queryterm was the common name of a species.6 ConclusionsIn this paper, we demonstrated how scientific andjournalistic texts differ in structure, tense, voice,references, terminology and style.
Ourobservations are based on a project in which weretrieved definitions to terms in the salmon fishdomain.
The above features could be exploitedspecifically in scientific QA.
Features such asvoice may play a more significant role in QAsystems which employ deeper NLP techniquesthan the simple patterns we used.
The uniformstructure of scientific documents may allow us totypify definitions in each section before combiningthem to suit the need of users.
Further analysis ofthe news domain may perhaps yield moreobservations which will also contribute to currentmainstream open-domain QA research as seen inTREC and CLEF.7.
Sources of Cited ExamplesLA-1: CLEF 03 LA Times LA120894-0019LA-2: CLEF 03 LA Times LA070794-0021NAT: Nature, 425(6955), 255.NYT-1:http://www.nytimes.com/2003/09/23/science/23SALM.html?ex=1079499600&en=1083ff4683d95e8e&ei=5070NYT-2: AQUAINT NYT20000807.0291NYT-3: AQUAINT NYT19990913.0215SD-1:http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6T6N-3XNJYSC-P/2/704eaa76fae2ceb6b79ec11d844a44ddSD-2:http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6T6N-409630G-V/2/9bc703e5948960159743f99269998fb6SD-3:http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6T4D-428FK2P-C/2/d9e2c93377b34beb5ecc47165a4b1098SD-4:http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6T4D-460WH4M-1/2/fba8df4de8a057a606cc582a60046c09SD-5:http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6T4C-43X1B91-4/2/b7b7058db2c954eaf9d72b7bf2b5d141SD-6:http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6T4D-3YXJYY2-9/2/e3ddd1ccfbbece503a0ae26304a4b443SD-7:http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6T4D-3WN6GV4-/2/13a6aa37050ce68845d85c8eb111a82bSD-8:http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6T6N-472BJBX-4/2/054a7ff897821495aed30fe697c3b1c7SD-9:http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6T4D-40FG8N8-G/2/459f344b039746dc9dff2a3ca1f17679SD-10:http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6T2R-41JM957-K/2/5317d1c1daefee0ddadbc86a31288eb2SD-11:http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6T6N-4846K7G-2/2/1c8d6922218aabc83ad653b376d39ed9ReferencesBlair-Goldensohn, S., McKeown, K. R. andSchlaikjer, A. H. (2003).
Retrieved November30, 2003. http://trec.nist.gov/act_part/t12_notebook/papers/columbiau.qa.pdfDay, R. A.
(1998) How to write & publish ascientific paper, Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.Ding, D. (1998) In Essays in the study of scientificdiscourse : methods, practice, and pedagogy (Ed,Battalio, J. T.) Albex Publishing, Stamford, CT,pp.
117-138.Elsevier Author Guide (2003).
RetrievedDecember 20, 2003. http://authors.elsevier.com/GuideForAuthors.htmlEvans, H. (1972) Editing and design : a five-volume manual of English, typography andlayout--Book 1 : Newsman's English, Heineman,London.FishBase (2003).
http:\\www.fishbase.orgGabbay, I.
2004.
Retrieving Definitions fromScientific Text in the Salmon Fish Domain byLexical Pattern Matching.
MA thesis inTechnical Communication, University ofLimerick, Limerick, Ireland.Hearst, M. A.
(1992).
"Automatic Acquisition ofHyponyms from Large Text Corpora".
InProceedings of the 14th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics (COLING-'92).Nantes, France, ed.
539-545.Hirschman, L. and Gaizauskas, R. (2001) "NaturalLanguage Question Answering: The View fromHere".
Journal of Natural Language Engineering,7(4), 325?342.Joho, H. and Sanderson, M. (2000).
"RetrievingDescriptive Phrases from Large Amounts of FreeText".
In Proceedings of the ninth internationalconference on Information and knowledgemanagement (CIKM).
McLean, VA, ed.
180-186.Klavans, J. and Muresan, S. (2001).
"Evaluation ofDEFINDER: a system to mine definitions fromconsumer-oriented medical text".
In ACM/IEEEJoint Conference on Digital Libraries, JCDL2001.
Roanoke, Virginia.
201-202.Lancaster, F. W. (1968) Information RetrievalSystems: Characteristics, Testing andEvaluation, Wiley, New York.Liu, B., Wee, C. and Ng, H. T. (2003).
"Miningtopic-specific concepts and definitions on theweb".
In Proceedings of the twelfth internationalconference on World Wide Web.
Budapest,Hungary.
251 - 260.Moll?, D., Schwitter, R., Rinaldi, F., Dowdall, J.and Hess, M. (2003).
"NLP for AnswerExtraction in Technical Domains".
In Workshopon Natural Language Processing for QuestionAnswering, EACL 2003.
Budapest, de Rijke, M.and Webber, B., eds.
5-11.Shah, P., Perez-Iratxeta, C., Bork, P. and Andrade,M.
(2003) "Information extraction from full textscientific articles: Where are the keywords?
"BMC Bioinformatics, 4(1), 20.Sutcliffe, R. F. E., Gabbay, I., Mulcahy, M. andWhite, K. (2003).
Retrieved November 2003http://trec.nist.gov/act_part/t12_notebook/papers/ulimerick.qa.pdfTeufel, S. and Moens, M. (2002) "Summarizingscientific articles: experiments with relevanceand rhetorical status".
ComputationalLinguistics, 28(4), 409-445.Voorhees, E. (2003).
Retrieved November 30,2003.http://trec.nist.gov/act_part/t12_notebook/t12_notebook.htmlWikipedia (2004).
Retrieved March 10, 2004.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/News_styleZweigenbaum, P. (2003).
"Question answering inbiomedicine".
In Workshop on Natural LanguageProcessing for Question Answering, EACL2003.
Budapest, de Rijke, M. and Webber, B.,eds.
1-4.
