Assessing the correlation between contextual patterns andbiological entity tagging.M.KRALLINGER, M.PADRO?N, C.BLASCHKE, A.VALENCIAProtein Design Group,National Center of Biotechnology (CNB-CSIC),Cantoblanco,E-28049 Madrid,martink, mpadron, blaschke, valencia@cnb.uam.esAbstractThe tagging of biological entities, and in partic-ular gene and protein names, is an essential stepin the analysis of textual information in Molec-ular Biology and Biomedicine.
The problem isharder than was originally thought because ofthe highly dynamic nature of the research area,in which new genes and their functions are con-stantly being discovered, and because of the lackof commonly accepted standards.
An impres-sive collection of techniques has been used todetect protein and gene names in the last four-five years, ranging from typical NLP to purelybioinformatics approaches.
We explore here therelationship between protein/gene names andexpressions used to characterize protein/genefunction.
These expressions are captured in acollection of patterns derived from an originalset of manually derived expressions, extendedto cover lexical variants and filtered with knowncases of association patterns/ names.
Apply-ing these patterns to a large collection of cu-rated sentences, we found a significant numberof patterns with a very strong tendency to ap-pear only in sentences in which a protein/genename is simultaneously present.
This approachis part of a larger effort to incorporate contex-tual information so as to make biological infor-mation less ambiguous.1 IntroductionMolecular Biology and biomedical research cov-ers a broad variety of research topics, connectedto the function of genes and proteins.
The infor-mation on the experimental characterization ofessential functional aspects of these genes andproteins is manually extracted from primary sci-entific publications by field-specific databases.This process requires highly specialist person-nel, and is costly and time-consuming.
Indeed,only a small number of genes and proteins havebeen annotated with information directly re-lated to experiments, whereas in the immensemajority of cases the annotations are trans-ferred from other similar entries.
The anno-tations provided by the databases are a valu-able source for large-scale analysis, but are in-evitably incomplete at the level of detailed func-tion and experimental results.It is in the context of fast-growing biblio-graphic information (over 12 million referencesare collected in the PubMed database, with anaverage of 500,000 new references added everyyear) and annotation of the function of genesand proteins that Text Mining and InformationExtraction systems become important toolsfor biological research (Blaschke and Valencia,2001).Since the first papers were published inthis field in the late 90?s, it has become clearthat the detection of gene and protein names(gene tagging) is a key first step towards TextMining systems becoming really useful.The detection of names is particularly com-plex in the domain of Molecular Biology, for anumber of reasons:(1) Sociological, since names are perceived asassociated with the recognition of the groupsthat first discovered them.
(2) As biologists tend not to adopt availablenaming standards, often the disease relatedto a gene disorder has the same name as thegene itself (homonyms).
This can be only beaddressed using context based sense disam-biguation procedures.
(3) Gene names or symbols are often the sameas common English terms.
For instance, manyD.
melanogaster gene names, such as ?hedge-hog?, lead to lexical ambiguity.
(4) Symbolsand abbreviations are commonly used withoutany control.
This gives rise to the problems ofacronym disambiguation and expansion.
Thereis no high-quality gene acronym dictionary.
(5) Proteins are related by a process of evalua-tion, which creates ontological associations that36are mixed with the various levels of knowledgefor different members of the protein families.
(6) The field itself is still evolving, and thecatalogue of genes even for the genomes alreadysequenced, such as the Human one, is stillincomplete.Our own assessment of the evolution ofgene names shows that names evolve overtime into a complex system with scale-freebehavior, with the presence of a few veryoft-quoted names (attractors) and many veryseldom quoted ones.
The system itself is in acritical state and the fate of current names isunpredictable (Hoffmann and Valencia, 2003).A significant number of applications havebeen developed to identify gene names and sym-bols in the biomedical literature (see (Tanabeand Wilbur, 2002; Yu et al, 2002; Proux et al,1998; Krauthammer et al, 2000) for four dif-ferent methodological approaches).
In order toassess the performance of different approachesthe BioCreative challenge was carried out.
Therecent BioCreative challenge showed that geneand protein names can be detected by severaltechniques, with a significant success that canbe as high as 80% for the best-performing sys-tems (Blaschke et al in preparation; and specialissue of BMC Bioinformatics on the BioCreativechallenge cup, in preparation).
However, detec-tion of the remaining 20% of names is really im-portant for many operations.
Therefore, thereis significant room for improvement, and a clearneed for new approaches able to use alternativesources of information.We explore here a new avenue for the detec-tion of gene and protein names by using con-textual information, since in many cases genetagging requires knowledge of context (context-based approach for disambiguation).
We pre-viously explored relevant information by cre-ating context-based sentence sliding windowsfor entity-relation extraction (Krallinger andPadron, 2004).We propose here to detect those sentences de-scribing the function of genes and proteins inthe literature that are good candidates for con-taining unambiguous information about corre-sponding gene and protein names.To detect these sentences, we relied on theidentification of typical expressions (patterns)associated with the description of protein func-tion in the literature.
Context information inthe form of heuristically extracted sentence pat-terns, known as frames, proved useful in thepast for deriving protein interactions automat-ically (Blaschke et al, 1999; Blaschke and Va-lencia, 2001) from protein co-occurrences.The approach proposed here is based on theextension of heuristically derived trigger words(Riloff, 1993; Agichtein and Gravano, 2000) andthe filtering of patterns using previously gene-indexed sentences.
The extraction patterns ob-tained were then ranked, using a validation setof gene-indexed sentences and sentences lackingthe gene symbols.
Precision-ranked extractionpatterns and indexing of sentences using thosepatterns allowed ranking of these sentences ac-cording to whether they contained relevant in-formation for protein indexing and annotation.2 MethodsIn the case of complex domains, such as Molec-ular Biology and Biomedicine, a prohibitivelylarge training set is generally required in orderto mine scientific literature.
Often inter-domainportable methods do not perform well enough.Nevertheless, within relevant sentences contain-ing protein or gene names, commonly used pat-terns often describe or define relevant aspects ofthose entities.Figure 1: Flow chart of the main steps for constructingthe extraction pattern set.Therefore, a list or dictionary of such ex-traction patterns was developed, starting witha small list of trigger words which, after sev-37eral processing and filtering steps, resulted ina ranked list of protein-specific extraction pat-terns (see Figure 1).2.1 Set of trigger wordsFirst, a domain expert manually analyzed gene-indexed sentences to extract key words thatcould trigger potential extraction patterns.
Theexpert used heuristics based on backgroundknowledge of the domain.
These trigger words(Riloff, 1993; Agichtein and Gravano, 2000)constituted frequent word types which, in thecontext of other word types (often prepositionsor articles), displayed a strong association withthe given gene or protein entity.
Trigger wordsthus made up a sort of concept node 1 by scan-ning through gene-indexed sentences.
Most ofthese trigger words were in fact verbal phrases(e.g.
transitive verbs), which were often encoun-tered in sentences defining or describing relevantfeatures of genes and gene products.
There-fore, only trigger words which helped describeor define relevant aspects of the protein were ex-tracted.
These trigger words are also useful forcomputerized annotation of extraction of pro-teins.
Among the trigger words were 507 verbs,127 adjectives and 265 nouns.2.2 Heuristic trigger word extensionThe trigger words were then extended and com-bined by the domain expert using context-based heuristics to extract a seed set of ini-tial extraction patterns and a set of regularextraction expressions.
An example (1) ofthe heuristic trigger words used was ?encod-ing?.
Among the resulting expert-derived ex-traction patterns were: ?, encoding a?, ?, encod-ing the?, ?encoding a?,?encoding the?,?encodinga <PROT>?,?gene , encoding?
and ?protein, en-coding?.
Here <PROT> represents a previouslygene tagged word type.2.3 Automatic extension of seedextraction patternsTo extend the set of extraction patterns and toexpand the regular expressions to obtain definedpatterns, a rule-based system was used.
Amongthe extension rules for these seed patterns werepreposition substitutions, comma addition be-fore verbs, article insertion before certain nounsand pattern fusions.
Some of the patterns gen-erated were revised manually and inconsisten-1Concept nodes are essentially case frames which aretriggered through a lexical item and its correspondinglinguistic context (Riloff, 1993)cies were removed.
Examples of the extractionpatterns based on the seed patterns provided inexample (1) were ?the gene encoding the?
, ?, agene encoding?, ?, a gene encoding the?,?, geneencoding a?,?, the gene encoding?,?, the gene en-coding a?,?the gene encoding the?.
Some of theextensions did not correspond to natural lan-guage and some were too long.
Thus, in a sec-ond step, those patterns not encountered in freetext, namely the initial set of gene-indexed sen-tences, were removed.Figure 2: Emprirical and random distribution of thepattern to gene name average offsets.2.4 Temporary extraction patternfiltering.The extended set of extraction patterns had tobe analyzed as to whether they really corre-sponded to patterns encountered in sentencesin which gene and protein names or symbolswere found.
Therefore we tagged, using exactpattern matching, the temporary set of extrac-tion patterns to a set of previously gene-indexedsentences.These sentences contained gene symbols ofthe yeast S. cerevisiae provided by the SGDdatabase.
A total of 36,543 sentences were gen-erated with the use of a refined gene tagger.
Ingeneral, as yeast genes are easier to tag and onthe whole do not correspond to common En-glish word types, they became a high-qualitygene-indexed data set for further analysis usingoffset statistics.A total of 769 patterns were matched to thesesentences and the rest of the patterns were dis-38carded.
To determine whether those matchedpatterns had a distance association to the genenames, we calculated the empirical average off-set of each pattern.
The distances used for theoffset calculation were measured in word tokens.Thus average empirical offset d?e was calcu-lated byd?e =?ni=1 din (1)where n is the number of occurrences of thegiven pattern in the gene indexed sentences anddi is the observed offset.Taking into account the sentence length, theindividual pattern length and the gene posi-tion within the pattern matching sentences alsoa random offset was calculated for each pat-tern occurrence and the average random offsetfor each pattern, d?r was calculated (see Fig-ure 2).
In order to determine whether the aver-age empirical distance of the patterns were sig-nificantly different from the corresponding ran-dom offsets, the distributions were further an-alyzed.
A chi-square test was applied to verifythat both, the empirical and the random offsetdistributions were normally distributed.
Thenwe used the Kullback-Leibler divergence to mea-sure how different the two probability distribu-tions were :D(p?q) =?ipilog2(pi/qi) (2)where p corresponds to the normal distributionof the empirical average offset and q to the nor-mal distribution of the random average offset.In our case the distributions showed a large KLdivergence.
This means that d?e is significantlysmaller when compared to d?r (i.e.
the patternsare closer to the gene names).To be able to use the average offset differ-ences of the patterns as a filtering criterion wecalculated the distribution of the differences ?ibetween d?r and the corresponding d?e (see Fig-ure 3).
Only patterns with ?i > 0 passed theselection filter.2.5 Permanent extraction patternranking.After the filtering of the temporary extrac-tion patterns using gene/protein indexed sen-tences, it was important to determine the preci-sion of the extraction patterns for gene-indexedsentences, compared with sentences withoutmentions of genes.
Therefore, two validationsets were constructed: one containing a set ofFigure 3: Difference between the average random andaverage empirical offset.
The extraction patterns whichdid not pass the filtering step (difference > 0 are dis-played in red.
The remaining pattern set (blue) consti-tuted the permanent pattern set which was used for thef-score ranking.Data set TotalInitial trigger words 899Seed heuristic patterns 472,427Extended heuristic patterns 525,408Filtered heuristic patterns 53,185Temporary patterns 769Permanent patterns 655Gene indexed sentences 36,543Validation sentences (+)) 45,119Validation sentences (-) 45,119Table 1: Overview of the used dataset of pat-terns and sentences.gene indexed sentences using gene names con-tained in the SwissProt database, and the otherconsisting of the remaining sentences, withoutthose symbols.
The sets were used to calculaterecall and precision:R = TPTP + FN (3)P = TPTP + FP (4)The corresponding f-score is given byF ?
score = 1?
1P + (1 ?
?)
1P(5)Where P is precision, R is recall and ?, whichconsists in a weighting factor for precision and39recall, here ?
= 0.5, were both precision andrecall had the same weight.
Regarding the ob-tained f-score or the precision we could rank thepermanent extraction patterns.Figure 4: F-score plot for the extraction patterns inthe validation set: f-score for each pattern (numbered)3 ResultsThe total number of initial patterns was472,427, the extended version included morethan 525,408 patterns and the reduced filteredfinal set included 655 patterns.
Even thoughthese patterns clearly do not include all pos-sible mentions of functions in texts, it is alsoclear that they provide a good statistical base(32,641 sentences detected in a corpus of 36,543sentences) for screening the sentences to searchfor protein names.To assess the relationship between patternsand names, we compared the frequency of thepatterns in two sets of sentences, one containingand one not containing gene names.
A highlyrelevant number of patterns appears more fre-quently in sentences containing names (324 ofthe 518 patterns).
A subset of these, 202, ap-pears only in sentences where a gene or proteinname is present.
This subset is an ideal candi-date for enhancing the discriminative power ofgene/protein detection systems.The permanent extraction patterns displayedin general a very high precision (see Figure 5),but the recall for an individual pattern wasrelatively low.
Nevertheless, most of the pat-terns were matched to the validation sentences(79.08%) and 13,799 sentences of the gene in-dexed validation set had at least one pattern.There were a total of 59.82% of high precisionpatterns, i.e.
with a precision greater then 0.8,of which 64.86% had a precision of 1.
Thusthe patterns are in general very specific for genecontaining sentences.Figure 5: Precision plot for the extraction patterns inthe validation set: PRECISION for each pattern (num-bered)Patterns P R F-scoreprotein is required 1 5.73E-05 1.15E-04was localized on 1 5.73E-05 1.15E-04gene is essential for 1 1.15E-04 2.29E-04located in the 0.93 3.26E-03 6.51E-03Table 2: Sample of high precision patterns.In table 2 some of the top scoring precisionpatterns can be seen.
Most of them containeda verb as trigger word, in contrast to the lowerscoring precision patterns (table 3), which oftencorresponded to patterns were the trigger wordcorresponded to a noun.Patterns P R F-scorethe human 0.544 0.015 0.029, acts as 0.5 5.72E-05 0.0001is associated with 0.494 0.005 0.010role for 0.463 0.003 0.006Table 3: Sample of low precision patterns.Moreover most of the high scoring patternshad a difference between the random and theempirical average offset greater then 8, while incases of low scoring precision if was mainly be-40low 2.5.
Therefore, the use of offset calculationas a filtering step to extract co-occurrences ofgene-indexed sentences is seen as promising.For sample sentences of true pattern-matchingcases, see:(a)Although generally involved with detoxi-fication, overexpression of one family mem-ber, cytochrome P450 1B1 (CYP1B1),has been associated with human epithelialtumors [PMID:12813131](b) For example, we have identified a novelgene called mta1 (rat) or MTA1 (human)that appears to be involved in mammary cellmotility and growth regulation [PMID:9891220](c) PEX13 protein has an SH3 docking site thatbinds to the PTS-1 receptor [PMID:11405337](d) We have previously reported the identifica-tion of human PEX13, the gene encoding thedocking factor for the PTS1 receptor, or PEX5protein [PMID:9878256]The above examples show correctly identi-fied gene containing sentences using extractionpatterns.
The extraction patterns are un-derlined, while the relevant gene symbols aredisplayed in bold.After detailed analysis of the positivematched patterns, we found that certain pat-terns were more suited to annotating functionalimplications of disease-related features of genesor proteins (see example a).
Other patternswere more suited to extracting descriptions ofthe participation of proteins in distinct biolog-ical processes (example b).
In addition, func-tional descriptions and protein-protein interac-tion information, useful for deriving functionalannotation data and protein definitions, wereassociated with certain patterns (see c and d).4 ConclusionsWe have described here a new approach for theidentification of sentences containing informa-tion relating to gene and protein names in bio-logical literature.
Our proposal is based on thedetection of sentences that contain informationrelating to protein (or gene) function as an in-dicator of the presence of protein/gene names.To identify these sentences, we used apattern-based approach that encapsulates thecharacteristic ways in which function is de-scribed in text.
To generate the set of pat-terns describing functions, we started with aninitial set of manually derived patterns, whichwas extended to cover a number of lexical varia-tions.
This larger set was filtered by matching ofthe patterns using previously gene-indexed sen-tences.
The trigger word extension idea is basedon the proposal by (Riloff, 1993; Agichtein andGravano, 2000).
Among the extraction patternswith high precision, a significant number con-tained verbs as trigger words.
This corroboratesprevious studies that used verbs to extract bio-logical interactions (Hatzivassiloglou and Weng,2002; Sekimizu et al, 1998).We plan to analyze further the patterns usedin the study in order to explore the differen-tial behavior of verb-containing patterns andnoun-containing patterns for protein annota-tion extractions.
The use of verbs to triggerextraction patterns for biological interactionshave already been explored (Hatzivassiloglouand Weng, 2002; Sekimizu et al, 1998), buttheir use for protein indexing and annotationextraction was not previously studied in detail.The overall performance of extraction patternsfor interactions and for annotation extractionseems to be similar.Most of the extraction patterns used showedno dependency on the organism that was thesource of the genes, with the exceptions of thepatterns containing the trigger words human,yeast, mammalian and mouse.
Therefore, themajority of the extraction patterns could beused for extraction of genes from a broad rangeof organisms, and especially aid in disambigua-tion of fly genes.
As the extraction patternscan be applied without prior gene indexing, theycould be used to enhance compound gene-nameindexing, to extract rare typographical variantsof existing gene names (not deposited in anno-tation databases) or even to mine the literatureto discover new genes not yet described in cur-rent annotation databases.The main focus in extraction patterns was pre-cision, which was attained through a pipeline offiltering steps.
The use of a larger set of ini-tial trigger words might further increase recallin some cases.We also plan to explore the use of the infor-mation of the patterns to improve the capac-ity of our current entity recognition systems.In particular, we would like to do this in thecontext of our system for detecting associations41between proteins and their functions.
In therecent BioCreative challenge, it was clear thatour system could be substantially improved byenhancing its name recognition capacity.
Thiscould be done by incorporating the frames asadditional context information into the previ-ously developed subset strategy (Krallinger andPadron, 2004).Finally, we also plan to compare extraction pat-terns with automatically derived n-grams frompreviously gene-indexed sentences, in order tofind which features are best suited for itera-tive bootstrapping to create new extraction pat-terns.5 AcknowledgementsThis research was sponsored by DOC, doctoralscholarship of the Austrian Academy of Sciencesand the ORIEL (IST-2001-32688) and TEM-BLOR (QLRT-2001-00015) projects.
We aregrateful to R. Hoffmann for providing the fil-tering set of gene-indexed sentences.ReferencesE.
Agichtein and L. Gravano.
2000.
Snowball:Extracting relations from large plain-text col-lections.
Proc.
5th ACM International Con-ference on Digital Libraries., pages 85?94.C.
Blaschke and A. Valencia.
2001.
The poten-tial use of SUISEKI as a protein interactiondiscovery tool.
Genome Inform Ser Work-shop Genome Inform., 12:123?134.C.
Blaschke, A. Andrade, M, C. Ouzounis,and A. Valencia.
1999.
Automatic extrac-tion of biological information from scientifictext: protein-protein interactions.
Proc IntConf Intell Syst Mol Biol., pages 60?67.V.
Hatzivassiloglou and W. Weng.
2002.
Learn-ing anchor verbs for biological interactionpatterns from published text articles.
Int JMed Inf., 67:19?32.R.
Hoffmann and A. Valencia.
2003.
Life cyclesof successful genes.
Trends Genet, 19:79?81.M.
Krallinger and M. Padron.
2004.
Predictionof GO annotation by combining entity spe-cific sentence sliding window profiles.
Proc.BioCreative Challenge Evaluation Workshop2004.M.
Krauthammer, A. Rzhetsky, P. Morozov,and C. Friedman.
2000.
Using BLAST foridentifying gene and protein names in journalarticles.
Gene, 259:245?252.D.
Proux, F. Rechenmann, L. Julliard, V.V.
Pil-let, and B. Jacq.
1998.
Detecting Gene Sym-bols and Names in Biological Texts: A FirstStep toward Pertinent Information Extrac-tion.
Genome Inform Ser Workshop GenomeInform, 9:72?80.E.
Riloff.
1993.
Automatically Constructing aDictionary for Information Extraction Tasks.Proceedings of the Eleventh National Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence., pages 811?816.T.
Sekimizu, H.S.
Park, and J. Tsujii.
1998.Identifying the Interaction between Genesand Gene Products Based on Frequently SeenVerbs in Medline Abstracts.
Genome InformSer Workshop Genome Inform., 9:62?71.L.
Tanabe and W.J.
Wilbur.
2002.
Tagginggene and protein names in biomedical text.Bioinformatics, 18:1124?1132.H.
Yu, V. Hatzivassiloglou, C. Friedman,A.
Rzhetsky, and W.J.
Wilbur.
2002.
Au-tomatic Extraction of Gene and Protein Syn-onyms from MEDLINE and Journal Articles.Proc AMIA Symp., pages 919?23.42
