53Modelling syntactic development in a cross-linguistic contextFernand GOBETCentre for Cognition and NeuroimagingDepartment of Human SciencesBrunel UniversityUxbridge UB8 3PH, UKFernand.Gobet@Brunel.ac.ukDaniel FREUDENTHALJulian M. PINESchool of PsychologyUniversity of NottinghamNottingham NG7 2RD, UKDaniel.Freudenthal@psyc.nott.ac.ukJulian.Pine@psyc.nott.ac.ukAbstractMainstream linguistic theory has traditionallyassumed that children come into the worldwith rich innate knowledge about languageand grammar.
More recently, computationalwork using distributional algorithms hasshown that the information contained in theinput is much richer than proposed by the na-tivist approach.
However, neither of these ap-proaches has been developed to the point ofproviding detailed and quantitative predictionsabout the developmental data.
In this paper,we champion a third approach, in which com-putational models learn from naturalistic inputand produce utterances that can be directlycompared with the utterances of language-learning children.
We demonstrate the feasi-bility of this approach by showing howMOSAIC, a simple distributional analyser,simulates the optional-infinitive phenomenonin English, Dutch, and Spanish.
The model ac-counts for young children?s tendency to useboth correct finites and incorrect (optional) in-finitives in finite contexts, for the generality ofthis phenomenon across languages, and for thesparseness of other types of errors (e.g., wordorder errors).
It thus shows how these phe-nomena, which have traditionally been takenas evidence for innate knowledge of UniversalGrammar, can be explained in terms of a sim-ple distributional analysis of the language towhich children are exposed.1 IntroductionChildren acquiring the syntax of their native lan-guage are faced with a task of considerable com-plexity, which they must solve using only noisyand potentially inconsistent input.
Mainstream lin-guistic theory has addressed this ?learnability prob-lem?
by proposing the nativist hypothesis that chil-dren come into the world with rich innate knowl-edge about language and grammar (Chomsky,1981; Piattelli-Palmarini, 2002; Pinker, 1984).However, there is also strong empirical evidencethat the amount of information present in the inputis considerably greater than has traditionally beenassumed by the nativist approach.
In particular,computer simulations have shown that a distribu-tional analysis of the statistics of the input can pro-vide a significant amount of syntactic information(Redington & Chater, 1997).One limitation of the distributional approach isthat analyses have rarely been done with naturalis-tic input (e.g.
mothers?
child-directed speech) andhave so far not been linked to the detailed analysisof a linguistic phenomenon found in human data,(e.g., Christiansen & Chater, 2001).
Indeed, neitherthe nativist nor the distributional approach hasbeen developed to the point of providing detailedand quantitative predictions about the developmen-tal dynamics of the acquisition of language.
Inorder to remedy this weakness, our group has re-cently been exploring a different approach.
Thisapproach, which we think is a more powerful wayof understanding how children acquire their nativelanguage, has involved developing a computationalmodel (MOSAIC; Model Of Syntax Acquisition InChildren) that learns from naturalistic input, andproduces utterances that can be directly comparedwith the utterances of language-learning children.This makes it possible to derive quantitative pre-dictions about empirical phenomena observed inchildren learning different languages and about thedevelopmental dynamics of these phenomena.MOSAIC, which is based upon a simple distri-butional analyser, has been used to simulate anumber of phenomena in language acquisition.These include: the verb-island phenomenon (Gobet& Pine, 1997; Jones, Gobet, & Pine, 2000); nega-tion errors in English (Croker, Pine, & Gobet,2003); patterns of pronoun case marking error inEnglish (Croker, Pine, & Gobet, 2001); patterns ofsubject omission error in English (Freudenthal,Pine, & Gobet, 2002b); and the optional-infinitivephenomenon (Freudenthal, Pine, & Gobet, 2001,2002a, 2003).
MOSAIC has also been used tosimulate data from three different languages (Eng-lish, Dutch, and Spanish), which has helped us to54understand how these phenomena are affected bydifferences in the structure of the language that thechild is learning.In this paper, we illustrate our approach byshowing how MOSAIC can account in detail forthe ?optional-infinitive phenomenon?
in two lan-guages (English and Dutch) and its quasi-absencein a third language (Spanish).
This phenomenon isof particular interest as it has generally been takento reflect innate grammatical knowledge on thepart of the child (Wexler, 1994, 1998).We begin by highlighting the theoretical chal-lenges faced in applying our model to data fromthree different languages.
Then, after describingthe optional-infinitive phenomenon, we describeMOSAIC, with an emphasis on the mechanismsthat will be crucial in explaining the empiricaldata.
We then consider the data from the three lan-guages, and show to what extent the same modelcan simulate these data.
When dealing with Eng-lish, we describe the methods used to collect andanalyse children?s data in some detail.
While thesedetails may seem out of place in a conference oncomputational linguistics, we emphasise that theyare critical to our approach: first, our approach re-quires fine-grained empirical data, and, second, theanalysis of the data produced by the model is asclose as possible to that used with children?s data.We conclude by discussing the implications of ourapproach for developmental psycholinguistics.2 Three languages: three challengesThe attempt to use MOSAIC to model data in threedifferent languages involves facing up to a numberof challenges, each of which is instructive for dif-ferent reasons.
An obvious problem when model-ling English data is that English has an impover-ished system of verb morphology that makes itdifficult to determine which form of the verb achild is producing in any given utterance.
Thisproblem militates against conducting objectivequantitative analyses of children?s early verb useand has resulted in there being no detailed quanti-tative description of the developmental patterningof the optional infinitive phenomenon in English(in contrast to other languages like Dutch).
Wehave addressed this problem by using exactly thesame (automated) methods to classify the utter-ances produced by the child and by the model.These methods, which do not rely on the subjectivejudgment of the coder (e.g.
on Bloom?s, 1970,method of rich interpretation) proved to be suffi-ciently powerful to capture the development of theoptional infinitive in English, and to do so at arelatively fine level of detail.One potential criticism of these simulations ofEnglish is that we may have tuned the model?s pa-rameters in order to optimise the goodness of fit tothe human data.
An obvious consequence of over-fitting the data in this way would be thatMOSAIC?s ability to simulate the phenomenonwould break down when the model was applied toa new language.
The simulations of Dutch showthat this is not the case: with this language, whichhas a richer morphology than English, the modelwas still able to reproduce the key characteristicsof the optional-infinitive stage.Spanish, the syntax of which is quite different toEnglish and Dutch, offered an even more sensitivetest of the model?s mechanisms.
The Dutch simula-tions relied heavily on the presence of compoundfinites in the child-directed speech used as input.However, although Spanish child-directed speechhas a higher proportion of compound finites thanDutch, children learning Spanish produce optional-infinitive errors less often than children learningDutch.
Somewhat counter-intuitively, the simula-tions correctly reproduce the relative scarcity ofoptional-infinitive errors in Spanish, showing thatthe model is sensitive to subtle regularities in theway compound finites are used in Dutch and Span-ish.3 The optional-infinitive phenomenonBetween two and three years of age, childrenlearning English often produce utterances that ap-pear to lack inflections, such as past tense markersor third person singular agreement markers.
Forexample, children may produce utterances as:(1a) That go there*(2a) He walk home*instead of:(1b) That goes there(2b) He walked homeTraditionally, such utterances have been inter-preted in terms of absence of knowledge of theappropriate inflections (Brown, 1973) or the drop-ping of inflections as a result of performance limi-tations in production (L. Bloom, 1970; P. Bloom,1990; Pinker, 1984; Valian, 1991).
More recently,however, it has been argued that they reflect thechild?s optional use of (root) infinitives (e.g.
go) incontexts where a finite form (e.g.
went, goes) isobligatory in the adult language (Wexler, 1994,1998).This interpretation reflects the fact that childrenproduce (root) infinitives not only in English,where the infinitive is a zero-marked form, but alsoin languages such as Dutch where the infinitivecarries its own infinitival marker.
For instance,55children learning Dutch may produce utterancessuch as:(3a) Pappa eten* (Daddy to eat)(4a) Mamma drinken* (Mummy to drink)instead of:(3b) Pappa eet (Daddy eats)(4b) Mamma drinkt (Mummy drinks)The optional infinitive phenomenon is particu-larly interesting as it occurs in languages that differconsiderably in their underlying grammar, and issubject to considerable developmental and cross-linguistic variation.
It is also intriguing becausechildren in the optional infinitive stage typicallymake few other grammatical errors.
For example,they make few errors in their use of the basic wordorder of their language: English-speaking childrenmay say he go, but not go he.Technically, the optional infinitive phenomenonrevolves around the notion of ?finiteness?.
Finiteforms are forms that are marked for Tense and/orAgreement (e.g.
went, goes).
Non-finite forms areforms that are not marked for Tense or Agreement.This includes the infinitive form (go), the past par-ticiple (gone), and the progressive participle (go-ing).
In English, finiteness marking increases withdevelopment: as they grow older, children producean increasing proportion of unambiguous finiteforms.4 Description of the modelMOSAIC is a computational model that analysesthe distributional characteristics present in the in-put.
It learns to produce increasingly long utter-ances from naturalistic (child-directed) input, andproduces output consisting of actual utterances,which can be directly compared to children?sspeech.
This allows for a direct comparison of theoutput of the model at different stages with thechildren?s developmental data.The model learns from text-based input (i.e., it isassumed that the phonological stream has beensegmented into words).
Utterances are processed ina left to right fashion.
MOSAIC uses two learningmechanisms, based on discrimination and generali-sation, respectively.
The first mechanism grows ann-ary discrimination network (Feigenbaum &Simon, 1984; Gobet et al, 2001) consisting ofnodes connected by test links.
Nodes encode singlewords or phrases.
Test links encode the differencebetween the contents of consecutive nodes.
(Figure1 illustrates the structure of the type of discrimina-tion net used.)
As the model sees more and moreinput, the number of nodes and links increases, andso does the amount of information held in thenodes, and, as a consequence, the average length ofthe phrases it can output.
The node creation prob-ability (NCP) is computed as follows:NCP = (N / M)Lwhere M is a parameter arbitrarily set to 70,000 inthe English and Spanish simulations, N = numberof nodes in the net (N  M), and L = length of thephrase being encoded.
Node creation probability isthus dependent both on the length of the utterance(longer utterances are less likely to yield learning)and on the amount of knowledge already acquired.In a small net, learning is slow.
When the numberof nodes in the net increases, the node creationprobability increases and, as a result, the learningrate also increases.
This is consistent with datashowing that children learn new words more easilyas they get older (Bates & Carnavale, 1993).Figure 1: Illustration of a MOSAIC discriminationnet.
The Figure also illustrates how an utterancecan be generated.
Because she and he have a gen-erative link, the model can output the novel utter-ance she sings.
(For simplicity, preceding contextis ignored in this Figure.
)While the first learning mechanism is based ondiscrimination, the second is based on generalisa-tion.
When two nodes share a certain percentage(set to 10% for these simulations) of nodes(phrases) following and preceding them, a newtype of link, a generative link is created betweenthem (see Figure 1 for an example).
Generativelinks connect words that have occurred in similarcontexts in the input, and thus are likely to be ofthe same word class.
As no linguistic constructsare given to the model, the development of ap-proximate linguistic classes, such as those of nounor verb, is an emergent property of the distribu-tional analysis of the input.
An important feature ofMOSAIC is that the creation and removal of gen-erative links is dynamic.
Since new nodes are con-stantly being created in the network, the percentageoverlap between two nodes varies over time; as a56consequence, a generative link may drop below thethreshold and so be removed.The model generates output by traversing thenetwork and outputting the contents of the visitedlinks.
When the model traverses test links only, theutterances it produces must have been present inthe input.
Where the model traverses generativelinks during output, novel utterances can be gener-ated.
An utterance is generated only if its finalword was the final word in the utterance when itwas encoded (this is accomplished by the use of anend marker).
Thus, the model is biased towardsgenerating utterances from sentence final position,which is consistent with empirical data from lan-guage-learning children (Naigles & Hoff-Ginsberg,1998; Shady & Gerken, 1999; Wijnen, Kempen, &Gillis, 2001).5 Modelling the optional-infinitive phenome-non in EnglishDespite the theoretical interest of the optional-infinitive phenomenon, there is, to our knowledge,no quantitative description of the developmentaldynamics of the use of optional infinitives in Eng-lish, with detail comparable to that provided inother languages, such as Dutch (Wijnen et al,2001).
The following analyses fill this gap.5.1 Children?s data: MethodsWe selected the speech of two children (Anne,from 1 year 10 months to 2 years 9 months; andBecky, from 2 years to 2 years 11 months).
Thesedata were taken from the Manchester corpus(Theakston, Lieven, Pine, & Rowland, 2001),which is available in the CHILDES data base(MacWhinney, 2000).
Recordings were madetwice every three weeks over a period of one yearand lasted for approximately one hour per session.Given that optional-infinitive phenomena areharder to identify in English than in languages suchas Dutch or German (due to the relatively lownumber of unambiguous finite forms), the analysisfocused on the subset of utterances that contain averb with he, she, it, this (one), or that (one) as itssubject.
Restricting the analysis in this way avoidsutterances such as I go, which could be classifiedboth as non-finite and finite, and therefore makes itpossible to more clearly separate non-finites, sim-ple finites, compound finites, and ambiguous utter-ances.Identical (automatic) analyses of the data andmodel were carried out in a way consistent withprevious work on Dutch (Wijnen et al, 2001).
Ut-terances that had the copula (i.e., forms of the verbto be) as a main verb were removed.
Utterancesthat contained a non-finite form as the only verbwere classified as non-finites.
Utterances with anunambiguous finite form (walks, went) werecounted as finite, while those containing a finiteverb form plus a non-finite form (has gone) wereclassified as compound finites.
The remaining ut-terances were classified as ambiguous and countedseparately; they contained an ambiguous form(such as bought in he bought) as the main verb,which can be classified either as a finite past tenseform or as a (non-finite) perfect participle (in thephrase he bought, the word has may have beenomitted).5.2 Children?s data: ResultsThe children?s speech was partitioned into threedevelopmental stages, defined by mean length ofutterance (MLU).
The resulting distributions, por-trayed in Figure 2, show that the proportion of non-finites decreases as a function of MLU, while theproportion of compound finites increases.
There isalso a slight increase in the proportion of simplefinites, although this is much less pronounced thanthe increase in the proportion of compound finites.5.3 SimulationsThe model received as input speech from the chil-dren?s respective mothers.
The size of the inputwas 33,000 utterances for Anne?s model, and27,000 for Becky?s model.
Note that, while theanalyses are restricted to a subset of the children?scorpora, the entire mothers?
corpora were used asinput during learning.
The input was fed throughthe model several times, and output was generatedafter every run of the model, until the MLU of theoutput was comparable to that of the end stage inthe two children.
The output files were then com-pared to the children?s data on the basis of MLU.The model shows a steady decline in the propor-tion of non-finites as a function of MLU coupledwith a steady increase in the proportion of com-pound finites (Figure 3).
On average, the model?sproduction of optional infinitives in third personsingular contexts drops from an average of 31.5%to 16% compared with 47% to 12.5% in children.MOSAIC thus provides a good fit to the develop-mental pattern in the children?s data (not includingthe ?ambiguous?
category: r2 = .65, p < .01, RMSD= 0.096 for Anne and her model; r2 = .88, p < .001,RMSD = 0.104 for Becky and her model).
Oneobvious discrepancy between the model?s and thechildren?s output is that both models at MLU 2.1produce too many simple finite utterances.
Furtherinspection of these utterances reveals that theycontain a relatively high proportion of finite mo-dals such as can and will and finite forms of thedummy modal do such as does and did.
Theseforms are unlikely to be used as the only verb inchildren?s early utterances as their function is to57a: Data for Anne00.20.40.60.812.2 3 3.4MLUProportionNon-finitesSimple finitesCompound fin.Ambiguousb: Data for Becky00.20.40.60.812.4 3.1 3.5MLUProportionNon-finitesSimple finitesCompound fin.AmbiguousFigure 2: Distribution of non-finites, simple finites,compound finites, and ambiguous utterances for Anneand Becky as a function of developmental phase.
Onlyutterances with he, she, it, that (one), or this (one) as asubject are included.a: Model for Anne00.20.40.60.812.1 2.7 3.4MLUProportion Non-finitesSimple finitesCompound fin.Ambiguousb: Model for Becky00.20.40.60.812.1 2.6 3.4MLUProportion Non-finitesSimple finitesCompound fin.AmbiguousFigure 3: Distribution of non-finites, simple finites,compound finites, and ambiguous utterances for themodels of Anne and Becky as a function of develop-mental phase.
Only utterances with he, she, it, that(one), or this (one) as a subject are included.modulate the meaning of the main verb rather thanto encode the central relational meaning of the sen-tence.An important reason why MOSAIC accounts forthe data is that it is biased towards producing sen-tence final utterances.
In English, non-finite utter-ances can be learned from compound finite ques-tions in which finiteness is marked on the auxiliaryrather than the lexical verb.
A phrase like He walkhome can be learned from Did he walk home?, anda phrase like That go there can be learned fromDoes that go there?
As MLU increases, the rela-tive frequency of non-finite utterances in the out-put decreases, because the model learns to producemore and more of the compound finite utterancesfrom which these utterances have been learned.MOSAIC therefore predicts that as the proportionof non-finite utterances decreases, there will be acomplementary increase in the proportion of com-pound finites.6 Modelling optional infinitives in DutchChildren acquiring Dutch seem to use a larger pro-portion of non-finite verbs in finite contexts (e.g.,hij lopen, bal trappen) than children learning Eng-lish.
Thus, in Dutch, a very high percentage ofchildren?s early utterances with verbs (about 80%)are optional-infinitive errors.
This percentage de-creases to around 20% by MLU 3.5 (Wijnen,Kempen & Gillis, 2001).As in English, optional infinitives in Dutch canbe learned from compound finites (auxiliary/modal+ infinitive).
However, an important differencebetween English and Dutch is that in Dutch verbposition is dependent on finiteness.
Thus, in thesimple finite utterance Hij drinkt koffie (He drinkscoffee) the finite verb form drinkt precedes its ob-ject argument koffie whereas in the compound fi-nite utterance Hij wil koffie drinken (He wants cof-fee drink), the non-finite verb form drinken is re-stricted to utterance final position and is hence pre-ceded by its object argument: koffie.
Interestingly,children appear to be sensitive to this feature ofDutch from very early in development andMOSAIC is able to simulate this sensitivity.
How-ever, the fact that verb position is dependent onfiniteness in Dutch also means that whereas non-finite verb forms are restricted to sentence finalposition, finite verb forms tend to occur earlier inthe utterance.
MOSAIC therefore simulates thevery high proportion of optional infinitives in earlychild Dutch as a function of the interaction be-tween its utterance final bias and increasing MLU.That is, the high proportion of non-finites early onis explained by the fact that the model mostly pro-duces sentence-final phrases, which, as a result of58Dutch grammar, have a large proportion of non-finites.As shown in Figure 4, the model?s production ofoptional infinitives drops from 69% to 28% com-pared with 77% to 18% in the data of the child onwhose input data the model had been trained.
Inthese simulations, the input data consisted of asample of approximately 13,000 utterances ofchild-directed speech.
Because of the lower inputsize, the M used in the NCP formula was set to50,000.a: Data for Peter00.20.40.60.811.5 2.2 3.1 4.1MLUProportion Non-finitesSimple finitesCompound fin.b: Model for Peter00.20.40.60.811.4 2.3 3 4.1MLUProportion Non-finitesSimple finitesCompound fin.Figure 4: Distribution of non-finites, simple finitesand compound finites for Peter and his model, as afunction of developmental phase.7 Modelling optional infinitives in SpanishWexler (1994, 1998) argues that the optional-infinitive stage does not occur in pro-drop lan-guages, that is, languages like Spanish in whichverbs do not require an overt subject.
WhetherMOSAIC can simulate the low frequency of op-tional-infinitive errors in early child Spanish istherefore of considerable theoretical interest, sincethe ability of Wexler?s theory to explain cross-linguistic data is presented as one of its mainstrengths.
Note that simulating the pattern of fi-niteness marking in early child Spanish is not atrivial task.
This is because although optional-infinitive errors are much less common in Spanishthan they are in Dutch, compound finites are actu-ally more common in Spanish child-directedspeech than they are in Dutch child-directedspeech (in the corpora we have used, they make up36% and 30% of all parents?
utterances includingverbs, respectively).a: Data for Juan00.20.40.60.812.2 2.8 3.8MLUProportion Non-finitesSimple finitesCompound fin.b: Model for Juan00.20.40.60.812.1 2.7 3.4MLUProportion Non-finitesSimple finitesCompound fin.Figure 5: Distribution of non-finites, simple finitesand compound finites for Juan and his model, as afunction of developmental phase.Figure 5a shows the data for a Spanish child,Juan (Aguado Orea & Pine, 2002), and Figure 5bthe outcome of the simulations run usingMOSAIC.
The parental corpus used as input con-sisted of about 27,000 utterances.
The model?sproduction of optional infinitives drops from 21%to 13% compared with 23% to 4% in the child.Both the child and the model show a lower propor-tion of optional-infinitive errors than in Dutch.
Thepresence of (some rare) optional-infinitive errors inthe model?s output is explained by the samemechanism as in English and Dutch: a bias towardslearning the end of utterances.
For example, theinput ?Quieres beber caf??
(Do you want to drinkcoffee?)
may later lead to the production of bebercaf?.
But why does the model produce so few op-tional-infinitive errors in Spanish when the Spanishinput data contain so many compound finites?
Theanswer is that finite verb forms are much morelikely to occur in utterance final position in Span-ish than they are in Dutch, which makes themmuch easier to learn.598 ConclusionIn this paper, we have shown that the same simplemodel accounts for the data in three languages thatdiffer substantially in their underlying structure.
Toour knowledge, this is the only model of languageacquisition which simultaneously (1) learns fromnaturalistic input (actual child-directed utterances),where the statistics and frequency distribution ofthe input are similar to that experienced by chil-dren; (2) produces actual utterances, which can bedirectly compared to those of children; (3) has adevelopmental component; (4) accounts for speechgenerativity and increasing MLU; (5) makes quan-titative predictions; and (6) has simulated phenom-ena from more than one language.An essential feature of our approach is to limitthe number of degrees of freedom in the simula-tions.
We have used an identical model for simu-lating the same class of phenomena in three lan-guages.
The method of data analysis was also thesame, and, in all cases, the model?s and child?soutput were coded automatically and identically.The use of realistic input was also crucial in that itguaranteed that cross-linguistic differences werereflected in the input.The simulations showed that simple mechanismswere sufficient for obtaining a good fit to the datain three different languages, in spite of obvioussyntactic differences and very different proportionsof optional-infinitive errors.
The interaction be-tween a sentence final processing bias and increas-ing MLU enabled us to capture the reason whyEnglish, Dutch and Spanish offer different patternsof optional-infinitive errors: the difference in therelative position of finites and non-finites is largerin Dutch than in English, and Spanish verbs arepredominantly finite.
We suggest that any modelthat learns to produce progressively longer utter-ances from realistic input, and in which learning isbiased towards the end of utterances, will simulatethese results.The production of actual utterances (as opposedto abstract output) by the model makes it possibleto analyse the output with respect to several (seem-ingly) unrelated phenomena, so that the nontrivialpredictions of the learning mechanisms can be as-sessed.
Thus, the same output can be utilized tostudy phenomena such as optional-infinitive errors(as in this paper), evidence for verb-islands (Joneset al, 2000), negation errors (Croker et al, 2003),and subject omission (Freudenthal et al, 2002b).
Italso makes it possible to assess the relative impor-tance of factors such as increasing MLU that areimplicitly assumed by many current theorists butnot explicitly factored into their models.An important contribution of Wexler?s (1994,1998) nativist theory of the optional-infinitivestage has been to provide an integrated account ofthe different patterns of results observed acrosslanguages, of the fact that children use both correctfinite forms and incorrect (optional) infinitives,and of the scarcity of other types of errors (e.g.verb placement errors).
His approach, however,requires a complex theoretical apparatus to explainthe data, and does not provide any quantitativepredictions.
Here, we have shown how a simplemodel with few mechanisms and no free parame-ters can account for the same phenomena not onlyqualitatively, but also quantitatively.The simplicity of the model inevitably meansthat some aspects of the data are ignored.
Childrenlearning a language have access to a range ofsources of information (e.g.
phonology, seman-tics), which the model does not take into consid-eration.
Also, generating output from the modelmeans producing everything the model can output.Clearly, children produce only a subset of whatthey can say.
Furthermore, any rote-learned utter-ance that the model produces early on in its devel-opment will continue to be produced during thelater stages.
This inability to unlearn is clearly aweakness of the model, but one that we hope tocorrect in subsequent research.The results clearly show that the interaction be-tween a simple distributional analyser and the sta-tistical properties of naturalistic child-directedspeech can explain a considerable amount of thedevelopmental data, without the need to appeal toinnate linguistic knowledge.
The fact that such arelatively simple model provides such a good fit tothe developmental data in three languages suggeststhat (1) aspects of children?s multi-word speechdata such as the optional-infinitive phenomenon donot necessarily require a nativist interpretation, and(2) nativist theories of syntax acquisition need topay more attention to the role of input statistics andincreasing MLU as determinants of the shape ofthe developmental data.9 AcknowledgementsThis research was supported by the LeverhulmeTrust and the Economic and Social ResearchCouncil.
We thank Javier Aguado-Orea for sharinghis corpora on early language acquisition in Span-ish children and for discussions on the Spanishsimulations.ReferencesAguado-Orea, J., & Pine, J. M. (2002).
Assessingthe productivity of verb morphology in earlychild Spanish.
Paper presented at the IX Interna-tional Congress for the Study of Child Lan-guage, Madison, Wisconsin.60Bates, E., & Carnavale, G. F. (1993).
New direc-tions in research on child development.
Devel-opmental Review, 13, 436-470.Bloom, L. (1970).
Language development: Formand function in emerging grammars.
Cam-bridge, MA: MIT Press.Bloom, P. (1990).
Subjectless sentences in childlanguage.
Linguistic Inquiry, 21, 491-504.Brown, R. (1973).
A first language.
Boston, MA:Harvard University Press.Chomsky, N. (1981).
Lectures on government andbinding.
Dordrecht, NL: Foris.Christiansen, M. H., & Chater, N. (2001).
Connec-tionist psycholinguistics: Capturing the empiri-cal data.
Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 5, 82-88.Croker, S., Pine, J. M., & Gobet, F. (2001).
Model-ling children's case-marking errors withMOSAIC.
In E. M. Altmann, A. Cleeremans, C.D.
Schunn & W. D. Gray (Eds.
), Proceedings ofthe 4th International Conference on CognitiveModeling (pp.
55-60).
Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.Croker, S., Pine, J. M., & Gobet, F. (2003).
Model-ling children's negation errors using probabilis-tic learning in MOSAIC.
In F. Detje, D. D?rner& H. Schaub (Eds.
), Proceedings of the Fifth In-ternational Conference on Cognitive Modeling(pp.
69-74).
Bamberg:Universit?ts-Verlag.Feigenbaum, E. A., & Simon, H. A.
(1984).EPAM-like models of recognition and learning.Cognitive Science, 8, 305-336.Freudenthal, D., Pine, J. M., & Gobet, F. (2001).Modelling the optional infinitive stage inMOSAIC: A generalisation to Dutch.
In E. M.Altmann, A. Cleeremans, C. D. Schunn & W.D.
Gray (Eds.
), Proceedings of the 4th Interna-tional Conference on Cognitive Modeling (pp.79-84).
Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.Freudenthal, D., Pine, J. M., & Gobet, F. (2002a).Modelling the development of Dutch optionalinfinitives in MOSAIC.
In W. Gray & C. D.Schunn (Eds.
), Proceedings of the 24th AnnualMeeting of the Cognitive Science Society (pp.322-327).
Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.Freudenthal, D., Pine, J. M., & Gobet, F. (2002b).Subject omission in children's language: Thecase for performance limitations in learning.
InW.
Gray & C. D. Schunn (Eds.
), Proceedings ofthe 24th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Sci-ence Society (pp.
328-333).
Mahwah, NJ: Erl-baum.Freudenthal, D., Pine, J. M., & Gobet, F. (2003).The role of input size and generativity in simu-lating language acquisition.
In F. Schmalhofer,R.
M. Young & G. Katz (Eds.
), Proceedings ofEuroCogSci 03: The European Cognitive Sci-ence Conference 2003 (pp.
121-126).
MahwahNJ: Erlbaum.Gobet, F., Lane, P. C. R., Croker, S., Cheng, P.
C.H., Jones, G., Oliver, I., & Pine, J. M. (2001).Chunking mechanisms in human learning.Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 5, 236-243.Gobet, F., & Pine, J. M. (1997).
Modelling the ac-quisition of syntactic categories.
In Proceedingsof the 19th Annual Meeting of the CognitiveScience Society (pp.
265-270).
Hillsdale, NJ:Erlbaum.Jones, G., Gobet, F., & Pine, J. M. (2000).
A proc-ess model of children's early verb use.
In L. R.Gleitman & A. K. Joshi (Eds.
), Proceedings ofthe Twenty Second Annual Meeting of the Cog-nitive Science Society (pp.
723-728).
Mahwah,N.J.
: Erlbaum.MacWhinney, B.
(2000).
The CHILDES project:Tools for analyzing talk (3rd ed.).
Mahwah, NJ:Erlbaum.Naigles, L., & Hoff-Ginsberg, E. (1998).
Why aresome verbs learned before other verbs: Effectsof input frequency and structure on children?searly verb use.
Journal of Child Language, 25,95-120.Piattelli-Palmarini, M. (2002).
The barest essen-tials.
Nature, 416, 129.Pinker, S. (1984).
Language learnability and lan-guage development.
Cambridge, MA: HarvardUniversity Press.Redington, M., & Chater, N. (1997).
Probabilisticand distributional approaches to language acqui-sition.
Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 1, 273-279.Shady, M., & Gerken, L. (1999).
Grammatical andcaregiver cue in early sentence comprehension.Journal of Child Language, 26, 163-176.Theakston, A. L., Lieven, E. V. M., Pine, J. M., &Rowland, C. F. (2001).
The role of performancelimitations in the acquisition of verb-argumentstructure: An alternative account.
Journal ofChild Language, 28, 127-152.Valian, V. (1991).
Syntactic subjects in the earlyspeech of American and Italian children.
Cogni-tion, 40, 21-81.Wexler, K. (1994).
Optional infinitives, headmovement and the economy of derivation inchild grammar.
In N. Hornstein & D.
Lightfoot(Eds.
), Verb movement.
Cambridge, MA: Cam-bridge University Press.Wexler, K. (1998).
Very early parameter settingand the unique checking constraint: A new ex-planation of the optional infinitive stage.
Lin-gua, 106, 23-79.Wijnen, F., Kempen, M., & Gillis, S. (2001).
Rootinfinitives in Dutch early child language.
Jour-nal of Child Language, 28, 629-660.
