Using Natural Language Processing, Locus Link, and theGene Ontology to Compare OMIM to MEDLINEBisharahLibbusHalilKilicogluThomas C.RindfleschJames G.MorkAlan R.AronsonLister Hill National Center for Biomedical CommunicationsNational Library of MedicineBethesda, Maryland, 20894{libbus|halil|tcr|mork|alan}@nlm.nih.govAbstractResearchers in the biomedical and molecularbiology fields are faced with a wide variety ofinformation sources.
These are presented inthe form of images, free text, and structureddata files that include medical records, geneand protein sequence data, and whole genomemicroarray data, all gathered from a variety ofexperimental organisms and clinical subjects.The need to organize and relate this informa-tion, particularly concerning genes,  has moti-vated the development of resources, such asthe Unified Medical Language System, GeneOntology, LocusLink, and the Online Inheri-tance In Man (OMIM) database.
We describea natural language processing application toextract information on genes from unstruc-tured text and discuss ways to integrate thisinformation with some of the available onlineresources.1 IntroductionThe current knowledge explosion in genetics and ge-nomics poses a challenge to both researchers and medi-cal practitioners.
Traditionally, scientific reviews, whichsummarize and evaluate the literature, have been indis-pensable in addressing this challenge.
OMIM (OnlineMendelian Inheritance in Man) (OMIM 2000), for ex-ample, is a clinical and biomedical information resourceon human genes and genetic disorders.
It has close to15,000 entries detailing clinical phenotypes and disor-ders as well as information on nearly 9,000 genes.
Thedatabase can be searched by gene symbol, chromosomallocation, or disorder.More recently, automated techniques for informationand knowledge extraction from the literature are beingdeveloped to complement scientific reviews.
Thesemethods address the need to condense and efficientlypresent large amounts of data to the user.
The feasibil-ity of applying natural language processing techniquesto the biomedical literature (Friedman and Hripcsak1999; de Bruijn and Martin 2002) and to the wealth ofgenomics data now available (Jenssen et al 2001; Yan-dell and Majoros 2002) is increasingly being recog-nized.
Efforts to develop systems that work toward thisgoal focus on the identification of such items as geneand protein names (Tanabe and Wilbur 2002) or groupsof genes with similar function (Jenssen et al 2001;Masys et al 2001).
Other groups are interested in identi-fying protein-protein (Blaschke et al 1999; Temkin andGilder 2003) or gene-gene interactions (Stephens et al2001; Tao et al 2002), inhibit relations (Pustejovsky etal.
2002), protein structure (Gaizauskas et al 2003), andpathways (Ng and Wong 1999; Friedman et al 2001).We discuss the modification of an existing naturallanguage processing system, SemGen (Rindflesch et al2003), that has broad applicability to biomedical textand that takes advantage of online resources such asLocusLink and the Gene Ontology.
We are pursuingresearch that identifies gene-gene interactions in text ongenetic diseases.
For example the system extracts (2)from (1).1) Here, we report that TSLC1 directly associateswith MPP3, one of the human homologues of aDrosophila tumor suppressor gene, Discs large(Dlg).2) TSLC1|INTERACT_WITH|MPP3Association for Computational Linguistics.Linking Biological Literature, Ontologies and Databases, pp.
69-76.HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop: Biolink 2004,Due to the complexity of the language involved, theextraction of such predications is currently not accurateenough to support practical application.
However, wesuggest its potential in the context of an application thatcombines traditional, human-curated resources such asOMIM and emerging information extraction applica-tions.23 SemGenMolecular Biology ResourcesTo support and supplement the information extracted bySemGen from biomedical text, we draw on two re-sources, LocusLink and the Gene Ontology.
LocusLink(Wheeler et al 2004) provides a single query interfaceto curated genomic sequences and genetic loci.
It pre-sents information on official nomenclature, aliases, se-quence accessions, phenotypes, OMIM numbers,homology, map locations, and related Web sites, amongothers.
Of particular interest is the Reference Sequence(RefSeq) collection, which provides a comprehensive,curated, integrated, non-redundant set of sequences,including genomic DNA, transcript (RNA), and proteinproducts for major research organisms.
Currently,SemGen uses LocusLink to obtain normalized genenames and Gene Ontology annotations.The Gene Ontology (GO) (The Gene Ontology Con-sortium 2000, 2001, 2004) aims to provide a dynamiccontrolled vocabulary that can be applied to all organ-isms, even while knowledge of gene and protein func-tion is incomplete or unfolding.
The GO consists ofthree separate ontologies: molecular function, biologicalprocess, and cellular component.
These three branchesare used to characterize gene function and products andprovide a comprehensive structure that permits the an-notation of molecular attributes of genes in various or-ganisms.
We use GO annotations to examine whetherthere are identifiable patterns, or concordance, in thefunction of gene pairs identified by SemGen.SemGen identifies gene interaction predications basedon semantic interpretation adapted from SemRep (Srini-vasan and Rindflesch 2002; Rindflesch and Fiszman2003), a general natural language processing systembeing developed for the biomedical domain.
After theapplication of  a statistically-based labeled categorizer(Humphrey 1999) that limits input text to the molecularbiology domain, SemGen processing proceeds in  threemajor phases: categorial analysis, identification of con-cepts, and identification of relations.The initial phase relies on a parser that draws on theSPECIALIST Lexicon (McCray et al 1994) and theXerox Part-of-Speech Tagger (Cutting et al 1992) toproduce an underspecified categorial analysis.In the phase for identifying concepts, disorders aswell as genes and proteins are isolated by mapping sim-ple noun phrases from the previous phase to concepts inthe Unified Medical Language System?
(UMLS)?Metathesaurus?
(Humphreys et al 1998), usingMetaMap (Aronson 2001).
ABGene, a program thatidentifies genes and proteins using several statistical andempirical methods (Tanabe and Wilbur 2002) is alsoconsulted during this phase.
In addition, a small list ofsignal words (such as gene, codon, and exon) helpsidentify genetic phenomena.
For example, the geneticphenomena in (4) are identified from the sentence in (3).Concepts isolated in this phase serve as potential argu-ments in the next phase.3) WIF1 was down-regulated in 64% of primaryprostate cancers, while SFRP4 was up-regulatedin 81% of the patients.4) genphenom|WIF1genphenom|SFRP4During the final phase, in which relations are identi-fied, the predicates of semantic propositions are basedon indicator rules.
These stipulate verbs, nominaliza-tions, and prepositions that ?indicate?
semantic predi-cates.
During this phase, argument identification isconstrained by an underspecified dependency grammar,which also attempts to accommodate coordinated argu-ments as well as predicates.SemGen originally had twenty rules indicating oneof three etiology relations between genetic phenomenaand diseases, namely CAUSE, PREDISPOSE, andASSOCIATED_WITH.
In this project, we extended Sem-Gen to cover gene-gene interaction relations: INHIBIT,STIMULATE, AND INTERACT_WITH.
About 20 indicatorrules were taken from MedMiner (Tanabe et al 1999).We supplemented this list by taking advantage of theverbs identified in syntactic predications by GeneScene(Leroy et al 2003).
SemGen has 46 gene-gene interac-tion indicator rules (mostly verbs), including 16 forINHIBIT (such as block, deplete, down-regulate); 12 forINTERACT_WITH (bind, implicate, influence, mediate);and 18 for STIMULATE (amplify, activate, induce, up-regulate).An overview of the SemGen system is given in Fig-ure 1, and an example is provided below.
SemGen proc-essing on input text (5) produces the underspecifiedsyntactic structure (represented schematically) in (6).
(7) illustrates genetic phenomena identified, and (8)shows the final semantic interpretation.Figure 1.
SemGen system5) We show here that EGR1 binds to the AR inprostate carcinoma cells, and an EGR1-ARcomplex can be detected by chromatin im-munoprecipitation at the enhancer of an en-dogenous AR target gene.6) [We] [show] [here] [that] [EGR1] [binds] [tothe AR] [in prostate carcinoma cells,] [and] [anEGR1-AR complex] [can] [be] [detected] [bychromatin immunoprecipitation] [at the enhan-cer] [of an endogenous AR target gene]7) genphenom|egr1genphenom|argenphenom|enhancer endogenous ar target gene8) egr1|INTERACT_WITH|arDuring processing, SemGen normalizes gene sym-bols using the preferred symbol from LocusLink.
Thefinal interpretation with LocusLink gene symbol isshown in (9).9) EGR1|INTERACT_WITH|ARAs we retrieve the LocusLink symbol for a gene, wealso get the GO terms associated with that gene.
We areinterested in extending the application of our textualanalysis and knowledge extraction methodology andrelating it to other biomedical and genomic resources.Gene Ontology is one such important resource, and be-low we discuss the possibility that GO might shed addi-tional light on the biological relationship between genesthat are paired functionally based on textual analysis.The GO terms for the genes in (9) are given in (10) and(11).10) EGR1|[transcription factor activity; regulationof transcription, DNA-dependent; nucleus]11) AR|[androgen receptor activity; steroid binding;receptor activity; transcription factor activity;transport; sex differentiation; regulation of tran-scription, DNA-dependent; signal transduction;cell-cell signaling; nucleus]4 SemGen Evaluation and Error AnalysisBefore suggesting an application using SemGen output,we discuss the results of error analysis performed on344 sentences from MEDLINE citations related to sixgenetic diseases: Alzheimer's disease, Crohn?s disease,lung cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer and sicklecell anemia.
Out of 442 predications identified by Sem-Gen, 181 were correct, for 41% precision.
This is notyet accurate enough to support a production system;however, the majority of the errors are focused in twosyntactic areas, and we believe that with further devel-opment it is possible to provide output effective forsupporting practical applications.The majority of the errors fall into one of two majorsyntactic classes, relativization and coordination.
A fur-ther source of error is the fact that we have not yet ad-dressed interaction relations that involve a process inaddition to a gene.Reduced relative clauses, such as mediated by Tip60in (12), are a rich source of argument identification er-rors.12) LRPICD dramatically inhibits APP-derived in-tracellular domain/Fe65 transactivation medi-ated by Tip60.SemGen wrongly interpreted this sentence as assertingthat LRPICD inhibits Tip60.
The rules of the under-specified dependency grammar that identify argumentsessentially look to the left and right of a verb for a nounphrase that has been marked as referring to a geneticphenomenon.
Arguments are not allowed to be used inmore than one predication (unless licensed by coordina-tion or as the head of a relative clause).A number of phenomena conspire in (12) to wronglyallow TIP60  to be analyzed as the object of inhibits.The actual object, transactivation, was not recognizedbecause we have not yet addressed processes as argu-ments of gene interaction predications.
Further, thepredication on transactivation, with argument TIP60,was not interpreted, and hence TIP60 was available (in-correctly) for the object of inhibits.
If we had recog-nized the relative clause in (12), TIP60 would not havebeen reused as an argument of inhibits, since only headsof relative clauses can be reused.The underspecified analysis on which SemGen isbased is not always effective in identifying verb phrasecoordination, as in (13), leading to the incorrect inter-pretation that WIF1 interacts with SFRP4.13) WIF1 was down-regulated in 64% of primaryprostate cancers, while SFRP4 was up-regulatedin 81% of the patients.A further source of error in this sentence is thatdown-regulated was analyzed by the tagger as a pasttense rather than past participle, thus causing the argu-ment identification phase to look for an object to theright of this verb form.
A further issue here is that wehave not yet addressed truncated passives.5 Using SemGen to Compare OMIM andMEDLINESemGen errors notwithstanding, we are investigatingpossibilities for exploiting automatically extracted geneinteraction predications.
We discuss an applicationwhich compares MEDLINE text to OMIM documents,for specified diseases.
LocusLink preferred gene sym-bols and GO terms are an integral part of this process-ing.
We feel it is instructive to investigate theconsequences of this comparison, anticipating resultsthat are effective enough for practical application.We selected five diseases with a genetic component(Alzheimer?s disease, Crohn?s disease, lung cancer,prostate cancer, and sickle cell anemia), and retrievedthe corresponding OMIM report for each disease, auto-matically discarding sections such as references, head-ings, and edit history.
We also queried PubMed for eachdisease and retrieved all MEDLINE citations that weremore recent than the corresponding OMIM report.
BothOMIM and MEDLINE files were then submitted toSemGen.For each disease, the MEDLINE file was larger thanthe corresponding OMIM file, and the categorizereliminated some parts of each file as not being in themolecular biology domain.
Table 1 shows the numberof sentences in the original input files and the numberprocessed after the categorizer eliminated sentences notin the molecular biology domain.OMIMOrig.OMIMProc.MEDLINEOrig.MEDLINEProc.Alz 408 264 1639 862Crohn 188 124 4871 1236LungCa 55 34 9058 2966ProstCa 121 69 6989 2964SCA 184 79 4383 1057Table 1.
Input sentences processed by SemGenA paragraph in the OMIM file for Alzheimer?s dis-ease beginning with the sentence Alzheimer disease isby far the most common cause of dementia, for example,was eliminated, while a MEDLINE citation with thetitle Semantic decision making in early probable AD: APET activation study was removed.An overview of predication types retrieved by Sem-Gen is given in Table 2 for the files on Alzheimer?sdisease.
Of the gene-disease predications, the majorityhad predicate ASSOCIATED_WITH (15 from OMIM and25 from MEDLINE).
For gene-gene relations,INTERACT_WITH predominated (3 from OMIM and 12from MEDLINE).Alzheimer disease OMIM MEDLINEGene-Disease 16 31Gene-Gene  3 22Total 19 53Table 2.
Gene interaction predication typesWe developed a program that compares semanticpredications found in MEDLINE abstracts to thosefound in an OMIM report associated with a particulardisease and classifies the comparison between twopredications as either an exact match, partial match, orno match.
The category of a comparison is determinedby examining the argument and predicate fields of thepredications.
If all three fields match, the comparison isan exact match; if any two fields match it is a partialmatch.
All other cases are considered as no match.Although fewer than half of the predications ex-tracted by SemGen are likely to be correct, we providesome examples from the files on Alzheimer?s disease.
(The system retains the document ID?s, which are sup-pressed here for clarity.)
Examples of partial matchesbetween gene-disease predications extracted fromOMIM and MEDLINE are shown in (14) and (15).14) OM: APP | ASSOCIATED_WITH | Alz-heimer?s DiseaseML:  CD14 | ASSOCIATED_WITH | Alz-heimer?s Disease15) OM: amyloid beta peptide |ASSOCIATED_WITH | Alzheimer?s DiseaseML: amyloid beta peptide |ASSOCIATED_WITH | Senile PlaquesSome of the gene-disease predications that only oc-curred in OMIM are given in (16), and a few of thoseoccurring exclusively in MEDLINE are given in (17).16) TGFB1 | ASSOCIATED_WITH | AmyloiddepositionPRNP | ASSOCIATED_WITH | AmyloiddepositionMutation 4 gene | CAUSE | Alzheimer?s Dis-ease17) MOG | ASSOCIATED_WITH | Nervous Sys-tem DiseasesAcetylcholinesterase | PREDISPOSE | Alz-heimer?s DiseaseIn (18) are listed some of the gene-gene interactionpredications found in MEDLINE but not in OMIM.18) LAMR1 | STIMULATE | HTATIPMAPT|INTERACT_WITH | HSPA8CD14 | STIMULATE | amyloid peptide6 Using the GO TermsAs noted above, for each gene argument in the predica-tions identified by SemGen, we retrieved from Locus-Link the GO terms associated with that gene.
We havebegun to investigate ways in which these terms might beused to compare genes by looking at the gene-gene in-teraction predications extracted from MEDLINE thatdid not occur in OMIM.To support this work, we developed a program thatsorts gene-gene interaction predications by the GOterms of their arguments.
For each gene function, thepredications in which both arguments share the samefunction are listed first.
These are followed by thepredications in which only the first argument has thatgene function, and then the predications in which onlythe second argument has the relevant gene function.
Atypical output file of this process is shown in (19):19) RECEPTOR ACTIVITY-----------------Both Arguments:DTR|STIMULATE|EGFRFirst Argument:AR|STIMULATE|TRXR3EPHB2|STIMULATE|ENO2Second Argument:EGR1|INTERACT_WITH|ARPSMC6|STIMULATE|ARThe three branches of the Gene Ontology provide auniform system for relating genes by function.
Theterms in the molecular function and biological processbranches are perhaps most useful for this purpose; how-ever, we have begun by considering all three branches(including the cellular component branch).
The mosteffective method of exploiting GO annotations remainsa matter of research.It is important to recognize that GO mapping is notprecise; different annotators may make different GOassignments for the same gene.
Nevertheless, GO anno-tations provide considerable potential for relating themolecular functions and biological processes of genes.We consider one of the predications extracted from theMEDLINE file for prostate cancer that did not occur inOMIM:19) EGR1|INTERACT_WITH|ARBoth genes EGR1 and AR in LocusLink elicit thesame human gene set (367 Hs AR; 1026 Hs CDKN1A;1958 Hs EGR1; 3949 Hs LDLR; 4664 Hs NAB1; 4665Hs NAB2; 5734 Hs PTGER4; 114034 Hs TOE1).
Thissuggests a high degree of sequence homology and func-tional similarity.
In addition, LocusLink provides thefollowing GO terms for the two genes:20) EGR1: early growth response 1; LocusID: 1958Gene Ontology: transcription factor activity;regulation of transcription, DNA-dependent;nucleus21)  AR: androgen receptor (dihydrotestosterone re-ceptor; testicular feminization; spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy; Kennedy disease) ; Lo-cusID: 367 Gene Ontology:  androgen receptoractivity; steroid binding; receptor activity; tran-scription factor activity; transport; sex differen-tiation; regulation of transcription, DNA-dependent; signal transduction; cell-cell signal-ing; nucleus(The GO provides additional, hierarchical informationfor terms, which we have not yet exploited.
)Thirty percent of the predications examined hadsome degree of overlap in their GO terms.
For example,the terms for EGR1 (transcription factor activity; regu-lation of transcription, DNA- dependent; and nucleus)are identical to three of the GO terms for the AR gene.This concordance may not be typical of the majority ofpaired genes in our sample.
However, in the case ofgenes that do not exhibit such complete overlap, con-cordance might be obtained at higher nodes in the clas-sification scheme.An alternate approach for assessing distance be-tween GO annotations has been suggested by Lord et al(2003a, 2003b).
They propose a ?semantic similaritymeasure?
using ontologies to explore the relationshipsbetween genes that may have associated interaction orfunction.
The authors consider the information contentof each GO term, defined as the number of times eachterm, or any child term, occurs.The fact that any one gene has a number of GO an-notations indicates that a particular gene may performmore than one function or its function may be classifiedunder a number of molecular activities.
Some of theseactivities may be part of, i.e.
extending to a variabledegree down, the same GO structure.
For example, forgene AR, ?receptor activity?
(GO 4872) partially over-laps with ?androgen receptor activity?
(GO 4882), asdoes ?steroid binding?
(GO 5496) with ?transcriptionfactor activity?
(GO 3700), and ?signal transduction(GO 7165) and ?cell-cell signaling (GO 7267).
Thisindicates that in assessing similarity one needs to exam-ine the ontology structure and not rely solely on the GOterms.While we have no experimental evidence, we wouldlike to speculate about the functional or biological sig-nificance indicated by similarity in GO annotation.There are three orthogonal aspects to GO: molecularfunction, biological process, and cellular component.
Iftwo genes map more closely in one of the taxonomies,then their function is necessarily more closely related.The majority of GO terms are in the molecular functiontaxonomy.
It is conceivable that genes that map moreclosely could be involved in the same cascade or par-ticipate in the same genetic regulatory network.
There isincreasing interest in genetic networks (e.g.www.genome.ad.jp/kegg/ kegg2.html; http://ecocyc.org;http://us.expasy.org/tools/pathways; www.biocarta.com)and combining the ability to search and extract informa-tion from the literature with GO mapping could proveeffective in elucidating the functional interactions ofgenes.78 ConclusionPotential Knowledge DiscoveryTo determine whether our automatic comparison ofMEDLINE to OMIM based on SemGen predicationsmight throw new light on  gene-gene interactions, weexamined predications found in the MEDLINE file thathad no match in the OMIM file.
We searched theOMIM reports for information on the genes found insuch predications to confirm that they were absent fromthe OMIM reports.
For example, while the OMIM re-port on colon cancer did not mention BARD1, theSemGen output for MEDLINE had22) BARD1|INTERACT_WITH|hmsh2The abstract containing this predication (PMID11498787) asserts that the BARD1 gene (LocusID 580)interacts with the breast cancer gene BRCA1 as well aswith hMSH2, a mismatch repair gene associated withcolon cancer.
BARD1 shares homology with the twoconserved regions of BRCA1 and also interacts with theN-terminal region of BRCA1.
Interaction of BARD1with BRCA1 could be essential for the function ofBRCA1 in tumor suppression.Conversely, disruption of this interaction may possi-bly contribute to the process of oncogenesis.
It has beenreported that the BRCA1/BARD1 complex is responsi-ble for many of the tumor suppression activities ofBRCA1 (Baer and Ludwig 2002).
The gene hMSH2(LocusID 4436) is one of a number of genes that, whenmutated, predisposes to colon cancer type 1.
It is thehuman homolog of the bacterial mismatch repair genemutS.
We hypothesize that the interaction of BARD1with hMSH2, in a similar fashion to BRCA1, may benecessary for tumor suppression.
Disruption of this in-teraction may increase the likelihood of developing co-lon cancer.
Furthermore, this observation serves to pointtoward a possible link between BRCA1 and colon can-cer.We have extended earlier work with SemGen (Rind-flesch et al 2003) and are now able to extract from text,in addition to names of gene and disorders, gene-disorder and gene-gene relations.
Although SemGen isnot at a stage where it can be used indiscriminately andwithout selective review and evaluation, it may never-theless prove useful for reviewers by providing an effi-cient means of scanning a large number of referencesand extracting relations involving genes and diseases.The process of curation and review is time consum-ing.
Given the rate at which new publications are addedto the scientific literature, the availability of tools foraccelerating the review process would meet a real need.As demonstrated by our pilot study on six disorders,SemGen could prove useful, even at this prototypestage, in extracting relevant information from the litera-ture concerning genes and diseases.
Additionally, theability to scan and extract information from diverse sci-entific domains could play an important role in identify-ing new relationships between genes and diseases thatwould promote hypothesis-generation and advance sci-entific research.
Even with the present limitations,SemGen could assist in making the scientific literaturemore accessible and reduce the time it takes for re-searchers to update their knowledge and expertise.ReferencesAronson, A.R.
(2001).
?Effective mapping of biomedi-cal text to the UMLS Metathesaurus: the MetaMapprogram.?
In Proceedings of the AMIA Annual Sym-posium, 17-21.Baer, R., and Ludwig, T. (2002).
?The BRCA1/BARD1heterodimer: a tumor suppressor complex with ubiq-uitin E3 ligase activity.?
Current Opinion in Genetics& Development, 12, 86-91Blaschke, C.; Andrade, M.A.
; Ouzounis, C.; and Valen-cia, A.
(1999).
?Automatic extraction of biologicalinformation from scientific text: protein-protein in-teractions.?
In Proceedings of the Seventh Interna-tional Conference on Intelligent Systems forMolecular Biology, 60-70.de Bruijn, B., and Martin, J.
(2002).
?Getting to the(c)ore of knowledge: mining biomedical literature.
?International Journal of Medical Informatics, 67, 7-18.Cutting, D.; Kupiec, J.; Pedersen, J.; and Sibun, P.(1992).
?A practical part-of-speech tagger.?
In Pro-ceedings of the Third Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing.Friedman, C., and Hripcsak, G. (1999).
?Natural lan-guage processing and its future in medicine.?
Aca-demic Medicine, 74 (8),890-5.Friedman, C.; Kra, P.; Yu, H.; Krauthammer, M.; andRzhetsky, A.
(2001).
?GENIES: a natural-languageprocessing system for the extraction of molecularpathways from journal articles.?
Bioinformatics, 17Suppl 1, S74-82.Gaizauskas, R; Demetriou, G.; Artymiuk, P.J.
; andWillett, P. (2003).
?Protein Structures and Informa-tion Extraction from Biological Texts: The PASTASystem.?
Bioinformatics, 19, 135-43.The Gene Ontology Consortium.
(2000).
?Gene ontol-ogy: tool for the unificaiton of biology.?
Nature, 25,25-29.The Gene Ontology Consortium.
(2001).
?Creating theGene Ontology Resource: Design and implementa-tion.?
Genome Research, 11,1425-1433.The Gene Ontology Consortium.
(2004).
?The GeneOntology (GO) database and informatics resource.
?Nucleic Acids Research, 32,D258-D261.Humphrey, S. (1999).
?Automatic indexing of docu-ments from journal descriptors: A preliminary inves-tigation.?
Journal of the American Society forInformation Science, 50(8), 661-74.Humphreys, B.L.
; Lindberg, D.A.
; Schoolman, H.M.;and Barnett, G.O.
(1998).
?The Unified Medical lan-guage System: An informatics research collabora-tion.?
Journal of American Medical InformaticsAssociation, 5(1), 1-13.Jenssen, T.K.
; Laegreid, A.; Komoroswski, J.; andHovig, E. (2001).
?A literature network of humangenes for high-throughput analysis of gene expres-sion.?
Nature Genetics, 28,21-28.Leroy, G.; Chen, H.; Martinez, J.D.
(2003) ?A shallowparser based on closed-class words to capture rela-tions in biomedical text.?
Journal of Biomedical In-formatics, 36, 145-58 .Lord, P.W.
; Stevens, R.D.
; Brass, A.; and Goble, C.A.(2003a).
?Investigating semantic similarity measuresacross the Gene Ontology: the relationship betweensequence and annotation.?
Bioinformatics 19:1275-1283.Lord, P.W.
; Stevens, R.D.
; Brass, A.; and Goble, C.A.(2003b).
?Semantic similarity measures as tools forexploring the Gene Ontology.?
Pacific Symposiumon.
Biocomputing,  601-612.Masys, D.R.
; Welsh, J.B.; Fink, J.L.
; Gribskov, M.;Klacansky, I.; and Vorbeil, J.
(2001).
?Use of key-word hierarchies to interpret gene expression pat-terns.?
Bioinformatics, 17(4), 319-26.McCray, A.T.; Srinivasan, S.; and Browne, A.C.
(1994).
?Lexical methods for managing variation in biomedi-cal terminologies.?
In Proceedings of the AnnualSymposium on Computer Applications in MedicalCare, 235-9.Ng, S.K., and Wong, M. (1999).
?Toward routine auto-matic pathway discovery from on-line scientific textabstracts.?
Genome Informatics, 10,104-112.Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, OMIM (2000).McKusick-Nathans Institute for Genetic Medicine,Johns Hopkins University (Baltimore, MD) and Na-tional Center for Biotechnology Information, Na-tional Library of Medicine (Bethesda, MD).
WWWURL: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/omim/.Pustejovsky, J.; Castano, J.; Zhang, J.; Kotecki, M.; andCochran, B.
(2002).
?Robust relational parsing overbiomedical literature: extracting inhibit relations.
?Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing, 362-73.Rindflesch, T. C., and Fiszman, M. (2003).
?The inter-action of domain knowledge and linguistic structurein natural language processing: Interpreting hy-pernymic propositions in biomedical text.?
Journal ofBiomedical Informatics, 36(6):462-77.Rindflesch, T. C.; Libbus, B.; Hristovski, D.; Aronson,A.R.
; and Kilicoglu, H. (2003).
?Semantic relationsasserting the etiology of genetic diseases.?
In Pro-ceedings of the AMIA Annual Symposium, 554-8.Srinivasan, P., Rindflesch, T.C.
(2002).
?Exploring TextMining from MEDLINE.?
In Proceedings of theAMIA Annual Symposium, 722-6.Stephens, M.; Palakal, M.; Mukhopadhyay, S.; andRaje, R. (2001).
?Detecting gene relations form Med-line abstracts.?
In Proceedings of the Sixth PacificSymposium on Biocomputing, 6, 483-96.Tanabe, L.; Scherf, U.; Smith, L.H.
; Lee, J.K.; Hunter,L.
; Weinstein, J.N.
(1999).
?MedMiner: An Internettext- mining tool for biomedical information, withapplication to gene expression profiling.?
BioTech-niques, 27(6),1210-17.Tanabe, L., Wilbur, W.J.
(2002).
?Tagging gene andprotein names in biomedical text.?
Bioinformatics,18(8), 1124-32.Tao, Y-C., and Leibel, R.L.
(2002).
?Identifying rela-tionships among human genes by systematic analysisof biological literature.?
BMC Bioinformatics, 3,16-25.Temkin, J. M., and Gilder, M. R. (2003).
?Extraction ofprotein interaction information from unstructured textusing a context-free grammar.?
Bioinformatics,19(16), 2046-53.Wheeler, D.L.
; Church, D.M.
; Edgar, R.; Federhen, S.;Helmberg, W.; Madden, T.L.
; Pontius, J.U.
; Schuler,G.D.
; Schriml, L.M.
; Sequeira, E.; Suzek, T.O.
;Tatusova, T.A.
; Wagner, L. (2004).
?Database re-sources of the National Center for Biotechnology In-formation: update.?
Nucleic Acids Research, 32(1),D35-40.Yandell, M.D., and Majoros, W.H.
(2002) ?Genomicsand natural language processing.?
Nature ReviewsGenetics, 3, 601-610.
