Animacy Encoding in English: why and howAnnie ZaenenPARC & Stanford University3333 Coyote Hill RoadPalo Alto, CA 94304]zaenen@parc.comJean CarlettaHCRC-University of Edinburgh2, Buccleuch PlaceEdinburgh EH8LW, UKJ.Carletta@Edinburgh.ac.ukGregory GarretsonBoston UniversityProgram in Applied Linguistics96 Cummington St.,Boston, MA 02215gregory@bu.eduJoan BresnanCSLI-Stanford University220, Panama StreetStanford CA 94305bresnan@stanford.eduAndrew Koontz-GarbodenCSLI-Stanford University220, Panama StreetStanford CA 94305andrewkg@csli.stanford.eduTatiana NikitinaCSLI-Stanford University220, Panama StreetStanford CA 94305tann@Stanford.eduM.
Catherine O?ConnorBoston UniversityProgram in Applied Linguistics96 Cummington St.,Boston, MA 02215mco@bu.eduTom WasowCSLI-Stanford University220, Panama StreetStanford CA 94305wasow@csli.stanford.eduAbstractWe report on two recent medium-scale initiativesannotating present day English corpora for animacydistinctions.
We discuss the relevance of animacy forcomputational linguistics, specifically generation, theannotation categories used in the two studies and theinterannotator reliability for one of the studies.1 IntroductionIt has long been known that animacy is animportant category in syntactic and morphologicalnatural language analysis.
It is less evident thatthis dimension should play an important role inpractical natural language processing.
Afterreviewing some linguistic facts, we argue that itdoes play a role in natural language generation andtranslation, describe a schema for the annotation ofanimacy distinctions, evaluate the reliability of thescheme and discuss some results obtained.
Weconclude with some remarks on the importance ofanimacy and other accessibility dimensions for thearchitecture of generation schemes2 The animacy dimension in naturallanguageThe animacy hierarchy is one of the accessibilityscales that are hypothesized to influence thegrammatical prominence that is given to therealization of entities within a discourse.
Threeimportant scales (sometimes conflated into one,also called animacy hierarchy in Silverstein, 1976),are the definiteness, the person and the animacyhierarchy proper.
We assume these are threedifferent hierarchies that refer to different aspectsof entity representation within language: thedefiniteness dimension is linked to the status of theentity at a particular point in the discourse, theperson hierarchy depends on the participantswithin the discourse, and the animacy status is aninherent characteristic of the entities referred to.Each of these aspects, however, orders entities on ascale that makes them more or less salient or?accessible?
when humans use their language.The importance of accessibility scales is notwidely recognized in computational treatments ofnatural language.
This contrasts with the situationin linguistics where such scales have beenrecognized as playing an important role in theorganization of sentence syntax and discourse.Even in natural language studies, however, theirimportance has been underestimated because therole of these scales is not always to distinguishbetween grammatical and ungrammaticalutterances but often that of distinguishing mainlybetween felicitous and infelicitous ones, especiallyin languages such as English.Grammaticality and acceptabilityAs long as one?s attention is limited to thedist inct ion between grammatical  andungrammatical sentences, the importance of theanimacy hierarchy in particular is mainly relevantfor languages with a richer morphology thanEnglish.
In such languages animacy distinctionscan influence grammaticality of e.g.
case-markingand voice selection.
To give just one example, inNavaho, a bi-form is used rather than an yi-formwhenever the patient is animate and the agent isinanimate, whereas the yi-form is used when theagent is animate and the patient is inanimate asillustrated in (1) (from Comrie 1989 p.
193).
(1) (a) At??
?d n?masi yi-d?
?l?dgirl      potato burntThe girl burnt the potato.
(b) At??
?d n?masi bi-d?
?l?dgirl      potato burntThe potato burnt the girl.Other phenomena discussed in the literature areagreement limited to animate noun phrases(Comrie, 1989), overt case-marking of subjectlimited to inanimates or overt case-marking ofobjects limited to animates (Aissen, 2003, see alsoBossong 1985 and 1991), object agreement inBantu languages (see e.g.
Woolford, 1999), choicebetween direct and inverse voice in Menominee(Bloomfield, 1962, see also, Trommer, n.d.).Recent linguistic studies have highlighted theimportance of the category in languages such asEnglish.
For instance the choice between the Saxongenitive and the of-genitive (Rosenbach, 2002,2003, O?Connor et al 2004, Leech et al 1994),between the double NP and the prepositionaldative (Cueni et al work in progress) and betweenactive and passive (Rosenbach et al 2002, Bock etal.
1992, McDonald et al 1993) and betweenpronominal and full noun reference (Dahl andFraurud, 1996, based on Swedish data) have allbeen shown to be sensitive to the differencebetween animate and inanimate referents for thearguments with variable realization.
In these casesthe difference between animate and inanimate doesnot lead to a difference between a grammatical oran ungrammatical sentence as in the cases cited inthe previous paragraph but to a difference inacceptability.Interaction between animacy and other scalesAs mentioned above, the term ?animacy hierarchy?is used in two ways, one to refer to an orderingimposed on definiteness, animacy and person andthe other where it refers to animacy proper.
Thereason for this lies in the interaction between thedifferent factors that determine accessibility.It is conceptually desirable to distinguish betweenanimacy and definiteness but in practice it isfrequently the case that a linguistic phenomenon isconditioned by more than one of theseconceptually independent factors (see e.g.
Comrie,1989 for discussion).
The projects in the contextof which the annotation tasks described here wereperformed (see description below, section 5) alsoencode some of these interacting factors.
TheLINK-project encodes information status (seeNissim et al 2004) and the Boston project encodesdefiniteness and expression type (i.e., NP form) asproxies for information status.3 Animacy as a factor in generation andtranslationAs long as animacy was discussed as a relevantgrammatical category in languages that had notbeen studied from a computational point of view,its importance for computational linguistics wasperceived as rather limited.
The fact that itpermeates the choice between constructions inlanguages such as English changes this perception.The category is of obvious importance for highquality generation and translation.For instance, if one is faced with the task ofgenerating a sentence from a three place predicate,P (a,b,c), and one has the choice of rendering eitherb or c as the direct object, knowing that c is humanand b is abstract would lead one to choose c ceterisparibus.
However, everything else is rarely equaland the challenge for generation will be to assignthe exact relative weights to factors such asanimacy, person distinction and recency.Moreover, the importance of these factors needs tobe combined with that of heterogeneousconsiderations such as the length of the resultingexpression.In the context of translation we need also to keepin mind the possibility that the details of theanimacy ranking might be different from languageto language and that the relative impact of animacyand other accessibility scale factors might bedifferent from construction to construction.4 The Animacy HierarchyGiven the pervasive importance of animacyinformation in human languages one might expectit to be a well-understood linguistic category.Nothing could be farther from the truth.
Linguisticdescriptions appeal to a hierarchy that in itsminimal form distinguishes between human, non-human animate and inanimate but can containmore distinctions, such as distinctions betweenhigher and lower animals (see Yamamoto, 1999 fora particularly elaborated scheme).What makes it difficult to develop clear categoriesof animacy is that the linguistically relevantdistinctions between animate and non-animate andbetween human and non-human are not the sameas the biological distinctions.
Part of this researchis devoted to discovering the principles thatunderlie the distinctions; and the type ofdistinctions proposed depend on the assumptionsthat a researcher makes about the underlyingmotivation for them, e.g.
as a reflection of thelanguage user?s empathy with living beings (e.g.Yamamoto, 1999).
What is of particular interestfor natural language processing is the observationthat the distinctions are most likely not the sameacross languages (cf.
Comrie, 1989) and can evenchange over time in a given language.
They aresimilar to other scalar phenomena such as voicingonset times that play a role in different languagesbut where the categorization into voiced andunvoiced does not correspond to the same physicalboundary in each language.
But whereas voicingonset times can be physically measured, we do nothave an objective measure of animacy.
Thecategories involved correspond to the degree towhich various entities are construed as human-likeby a given group of speakers and at this point wehave no language independent measure for this.Moreover, languages make ample use of metaphorand metonomy.
The intent of an animacy coding isto encode the animacy status of the referent of thelinguistic expression.
But sometimes in figurativelanguage it is not clear what the referent it.Especially prevalent cases of metonomy are theuse of names to refer both to organizations (e.g.IBM) and to characteristic members of them, andthe use of place names (e.g.
Russia) to refer both toorganizational entities and geographical places orinhabitants of them.
Terms belonging to thesesemantic classes are systematically ambiguous.Whereas it is true that animacy can be determinedby looking at the entity an expression refers to, inpractice it is not always clear what the referent ofan expression is.The notions that the animacy hierarchy appeals to,then, are not a priori well defined.
And work isnecessary on two levels: to better define whichdistinctions play a role in English and to determinewhere they play a role.
Conceptually, it might bedesirable to replace the idea of a hierarchy withdiscrete classes by a partial ordering of entities.This is, however, not the place to pursue this idea.Fortunately, one doesn?t need to wait until the firstproblem is solved completely to tackle the second.The results obtained in certain linguistic contextsare robust for the top and the bottom of thehierarchy.
Uncertainty about the middle does notprevent us from establishing the importance of thedimension as such.
Refining the definition ofanimacy will, however, be important for moredetailed studies of the interaction between thevarious accessibility hierarchies.
This more precisenotion will be needed for cross-linguistic studies,and, in the context of natural language processing,for high quality generation and translation.5 Animacy AnnotationAs we have discussed above, the animacy scale isan important factor in the choice of certainconstruction in English.
But it is only a softconstraint and as such outside of the realm ofthings that native speakers have clear judgmentsabout.
The best ways to study such phenomena arepsychological experiments and corpus analysis.The annotation exercise we engaged in is meant tofacilitate the latter.Given the situation described with respect toanimacy categories, a natural way to proceed is tostart with a commonsensical approach and seewhere it leads.
In 2000-2002, two rather similarinitiatives led to the need for animacy annotations:one, the paraphrase-project, a collaborationbetween Stanford and Edinburgh, concentrating onthe factors that influence the choice betweendifferent sentence level syntactic paraphrases(Bresnan et al 2002) and another concentrating onthe possessive alternation (O?Connor, 2000).
Thetwo projects used a very similar animacyannotation scheme, developed in the context of theO?Connor project.The scheme was used in two different ways.
TheBoston team coded 20,000 noun phrases in?possessive?
constructions from the Brown Corpus.The first round of coding was automated, with theanimacy annotation based primarily on word listsand morphological information.
The second roundwas performed manually by pairs of coders using adecision tree.
The two coders were required toagree on each code; every case in which there wasnot complete agreement was discussed by the restof the team, until a choice of code was made.
Thisway of annotating does not lend itself to a study ofreliability, except between the automated coderand the human coders as a group.
For moreinformation on this use of the coding system, seeGarretson & O?Connor (2004).In what follows we concentrate on the use of thecoding scheme in the Stanford-Edinburghparaphrase project.The overall aim of the paraphrase project is toprovide the community of linguists andcomputational linguists with a corpus that can beused to calculate the impact of the various factorson different constructions.
The annotation schemeassumes that the main distinction is three-way:human, other animates and inanimates, but the twolatter categories are subdivided further as follows:- Other animates: organizations, animals,intelligent machines and vehicles.- Inanimates: concrete inanimate, non-concreteinanimate, place and time.The category ?organization?
is important becauseorganizations are often presented as groups ofhumans engaging in actions that are typicallyassociated with humans ( they makepronouncements, decisions, etc.).
The categoriesplace and time are especially important for thepossessive encoding as it has often been observedthat some spatial and temporal expressions arerealized as Saxon genitives (see e.g.
Rosenbach(2002)).For the cases in which no clear decision could bemade, a category ?variable animacy?
was invented,and the coders were also given the option to deferthe decision by marking an item with ?oanim?.The overall coding scheme, with a summary of theinstructions given to the coders, looks as follows1HUMANRefers to one or more humans; this includesimaginary entities that are presented as human,gods, elves, ghosts, etc.
: things that look humanand act like humans.ORGThis tag was proposed for collectivities of humanswhen displaying some degree of group identity.The properties that are deemed relevant can berepresented by the following implicationalhierarchy:+/- chartered/official+/- temporally stable+/- collective voice/purpose+/- collective action+/- collectiveThe cut-off point between HUMAN and ORG wasput at ?having a collective voice/purpose?
: so agroup with collective voice and purpose is deemedto be an ORG, a group with collective action, suchas a mob, is not an ORG.1For a more extensive description of the annotationscheme see Garretson et al 2004.ANIMALNon-human animates, including viruses andbacteria.PLACEThe tag is used for nominals that ?refer to a placeas a place?.
There are two different problems withthe delimitation of place.
On the one hand, anylocation can be a place, e.g.
a table, a drawer, apinhead, ?
The coding scheme takes the view thatonly potential locations for humans are thought ofas ?places?.
On the other hand some places can bethought of as ORGs.
The tag was applied in arather restricted way, for instance in a sentencesuch as ?my house was built in 1960?, ?my house?is coded as CONC (see below), whereas in ?I wasat my house?, it would be a PLACE.TIMEThis tag is meant to be applied to expressionsreferring to periods of time.
It was applied ratherliberally.CONCRETEThis tag is restricted to ?prototypical?
concreteobjects or substances.
Excluded are things like air,voice, wind and other intangibles.
Body parts areconcrete.NONCONCThis is the default category.
It is used for events,and anything else that is not prototypicallyconcrete but clearly inanimate.MACA minor tag used for intelligent machines, such ascomputers or robots.VEHAnother minor category used for vehicles as ithas been observed that these are treated as livingbeings in some linguistic contexts (e.g.
pronounselection in languages such as English wherenormal gender distinctions only apply to animates).OANIMThis tag is used when the coder is completelyunsure and wants to come back to the examplelater.VANIMThis tag can be used in conjunction with anotherone to indicate that the coder is not entirely sure ofthe code and thinks there are reasons to giveanother code too.Finally, NOT-UNDERSTOOD was supposed tobe used when the text as a whole was not clear.Three coders coded the parsed part of theSwitchboard corpus (Godfrey et al 1992) over thesummer of 2003.
The corpus consists of around600 transcribed dialogues on variouspredetermined topics among speakers of AmericanEnglish.
Before the annotation exercise began, thedialogues were converted into XML (Carletta et al2004).
The entities that needed to be annotated(the NPs and possessives determiners) wereautomatically selected and filtered for the coders.The three coders were undergraduate students atStanford University who were paid for the work.The schema presented above was discussed withthem and presented in the form of a decision tree.Difficult cases were discussed but eventually eachcoder worked independently.
599 dialogues wereannotated.6 Coding reliabilityThe reliability of the annotation was evaluatedusing the kappa statistic (Carletta, 1996).Although there are no hard and fast rules aboutwhat makes an acceptable kappa coefficient?itdepends on the use to which the data will beput?many researchers in the computationallinguistics community have adopted the rule ofthumb that discourse annotation should have akappa of at least .8.For the reliability study, we had threeindividuals work separately to code the same fourdialogues with the animacy scheme.
Markables (inthis case NPs and possessives) had been extractedautomatically from the data, leading the coders tomark around 10% of the overall set with a categorythat indicated that they were not proper markablesand therefore not to be coded.
Omitting these(non-) markables, for the data set overall, K=.92(k=3, N=1081).In general, coders did not agree about which caseswere problematic enough to mark as VANIM, andomitting the markables that any coder marked asproblematic using the VANIM code leads to aslight improvement (K=.96, k=3,N=1135).It is important to note that these kappa coefficientsare so high primarily because two categories whichare easy to differentiate from each other, HUMANand NONCONC, swamp the rest of the categories.The cross-coder reliability for them is satisfactorybut the intermediate categories were not definedwell enough to allow reliable coding.Figure 1 shows the confusion matrix for the dataincluding markables that any coder markeradditionally as problematic using the VANIMnotation.
Considering the coders one pair at atime, the matrix records the frequency with whichone coder of the pair chose the category named inthe row header whilst the other chose the categorynamed in the column header for the samemarkable.Although we were aware of the less than formaldefinitions given for the categories, we had hopedthat the coders would share the intuitiveunderstanding of the developers of the categories.This is obviously not the case for all categories.What was also surprising was that allowing codersto mark cases as problematic using the VANIMcode was not worthwhile, since the coders did notoften take advantage of this option and taking theVANIM codes into account during analysis haslittle effect.Analysis of the four annotated dialogues points toseveral sources for the intercoder disagreement.?
The categories TIME and PLACE weredefined in a way that did not coincide with thecoders?
intuitive understanding of them.
Thetag TIME was supposed to refer to ?periods oftime?.
This led to some waveringinterpretations for temporal expressions that donot designate a once-occurring period of time.For instance ?this time?
and ?next time?
werecoded as TIME by two coders but as?NONCONC?
by the third one.
Clearertraining on what was meant could have helpedhere.?
As mentioned above, the choicebetween HUMAN, ORG and NONCONCdepended on how the coders interpreted thereferent of the expression.
Althoughguidelines were given about the differencebetween HUMAN and ORG (see above), thecut-off point wasn?t always clear2.
Thedistinction between ORGs as proposed in ourschema and less organized human groupsseems too fluctuating to be useful.2 All coders agreed that Vulcans are HUMAN.Figure 1?
The vagueness of pronominalreference: for instance a school as anorganization can be marked as ORG by thecoders but later in the dialogue there isdiscussion about the what is done with nappingchildren in the school and one speaker says ?ifthey (the children) fall asleep they kind of letthem sleep?, one coder interpreted that thesecond ?they?
as simply referring to the schoolorganization and marked it as ORG, whereasanother interpreted it as referring to a rathervague group of humans, presumably someteachers, and marked it as HUMAN.
Thisvagueness of reference is quite prevalent inspoken language, especially with the pronoun?they?.?
Attention errors, e.g.
vehicles weresupposed to get a special code but, presumablybecause there were so few, this was sometimesforgotten.
One coder coded ?a couple ofweeks?
as HUMAN.
These kinds of mistakesare unavoidable and the very tools that makethe encoding easier (e.g.
the automaticadvancing from one markable to another)might make them more frequent.While the problems with ORG and HUMAN don?tcome as a surprise, the difficulties with PLACE,TIME and CONCRETE are more surprising.
Thetwo minor classes, MAC and VEH and theANIMAL class occurred so seldom that nosignificant results were obtained in this sample.They were equally rare in the corpus as a whole.7 ConclusionWe are not aware of any other medium-scaleattempts to annotate corpora of contemporaryEnglish for animacy information apart from thetwo mentioned here.
There are smaller effortsconcentrating on the genitive alternation (e.g.Leech et al, 1994, Anschutz, 1997, Stefanowitsch,2000)3.
The resources that have been created giverobust results for the opposition ?human?
versus?nonconcrete?
entities in the large sense (as thecategory was used as a catch-all).
This shouldsuffice for further inquiries about linguisticprocesses that are sensitive to a binary oppositionin this dimension.
Moreover the Stanford-Edinburgh effort is integrated in a corpus that hasalready been marked up for syntactic information,so correlations between syntactic constructions andanimacy (and information status) should be easy tocalculate.
It is also the first effort that studiesinter-annotator reliability.Some studies based on the annotations arecurrently being conducted.
The study by Cueni,Bresnan, Nikitina and Baayen (2004) supplementspartial data from the work described here withfurther annotations.
The work reported byO?Connor et al (2004) derives from the Bostonuse of the encoding described here.
Within theparaphrase project we are currently investigation3 Some related work is done in the context of entitytracking sponsored by various US government programs(ACE, TIDES, etc.).
The proposed annotation schemeshave problems in distinguishing between persons andorganizations or geo-political entities that are similar toours, but the basic categories and the aims of theseenterprises are different.
We have not reviewed themhere.concretehumannon-concnot-understoodoanimorgplacetimevehconcrete 31 9 19 10 0 0 5 0 1human 148927 11 0 330 4 0nonconc 1256 3 3 3323 531notunderstood0 0 0 0 0 0oanim 2 2 0 1 0org 910 0 0place 66 0 2time 700veh 3the possible effect of animacy on constructionssuch as Left-Dislocation and Topicalization.Further work remains to be done, however, todetermine the exact nature of the distinctions in theanimacy dimension that are important for Englishand for other languages.
The annotations weprovide do not settle this issue.
In that sense theyare insufficient to guide generation and translationprecisely.
To investigate this further we will needto devise more careful annotation schemes andapproach the problem via experiments where thehypothesized relative animacy of various entitiescan be carefully controlled.
As mentioned above, itmight be better not to think in terms of robust largecategories but rather try to rank specific entities orsmall categories relative to each other and togradually build up a more precise picture.
This ismost likely better done through controlledexperiments than through corpus annotation.The annotated corpus, however, will be helpful todetermine where animacy plays a role and whichother factors it interacts with.
This knowledge willhelp devise more adequate generation andtranslation architectures.The Boston University noun Phrase Corpus ispublicly available at http://np.corpus.bu.edu.
Theparaphrase corpus will be made available tosubscribers to the Switchboard Corpus.8 AcknowledgementsThis work was in part supported by a ScottishEnterprise Edinburgh-Stanford Link Grant(265000-3102-R36766) and by NSF grant BCS-0080377.
Thanks to Toni Jeanine Harris, RebeccaRegos and Anna Cueni for the encoding work andto Richard Crouch and Neal Snider for commentsand help.
The usual disclaimers obtain.ReferencesAissen, Judith, 2002.
Differential object marking:Iconicity vs. economy.
NLLT, 21 435-483.Anschutz, A.
1997.
"How to Choose a PossessiveNoun Phrase Construction in Four EasySteps."
Studies in Language 21, 1, 1-35.Bock, J. K., Loebell, H. and Morey, R. (1992)From conceptual roles to structural relations:Bridging the syntactic cleft.
PsychologicalReview 99: 150--171.Bossong, Georg.
1985.
D i f f e r e n t i e l l eObjektmarkierung in den NeuiranischenSprachen,Gunter Narr Verlag, T?bingen.Bossong, Georg.
1991.
'Differential ObjectMarking in Romance and Beyond', in D.Wanner and D.Kibbee (eds.
), New Analyses inRomance Linguistics: Selected Papers fromtheXVIII Linguistic Symposium on RomanceLanguages, John Benjamins, Amsterdam, pp.143-170.Bresnan, Joan, Dingare, Shipra, and Manning,Christopher D. 2001.
Soft Constraints MirrorHard Constraints: Voice and Person in Englishand Lummi.
Proceedings of the LFG '01Conference.
CSLI Online.
20 pages.Bresnan, Joan, Carletta, Jean, Crouch, Richard,Nissim, Malvina, Steedman, Mark, Wasow,Tom and  Zaenen, Annie.
2002.
Paraphraseanalysis for improved generation, LINKproject, HCRC Edinburgh-CLSI Stanford.Carletta, Jean.
1996.
Assessing agreement onclassification task: the kappa statstic.Computational linguistics, 22 (2): 249-254Carletta, Jean, Shipra Dingare, Malvina Nissim,and Tatiana Nikitina.
2004.
Using the NITEXML Toolkit on the Switchboard Corpus tostudy syntactic choice: a case study.
InProceedings of the 4th InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC2004), Lisbon, May 2004.Comrie, Bernard, 1989, Language Universals andLinguistic Typology, The University of ChicagoPressCueni, Anna, Joan Bresnan, Tatiana Nikitina and HaraldBaayen.
2004.
Predicting the Dative Alteration,Stanford University, ms. in preparation.Dahl, ?sten and  Fraurud, Kari.
1996 Animacy inGrammar and Discourse.
In ThorsteinFretheim & Jeanette K. Gundel (eds.
),Reference and Referent Accessibility, 47-64.Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.Garretson, Gregory, O'Connor, M. Catherine;Skarabela, Barbora; & Hogan, Marjorie.March 2004.
Coding practices used in theproject Optimal Typology of DeterminerPhrases.http://npcorpus.bu.edu/documentation/index.htmlGarretson, Gregory, and O?Connor, M. Catherine.2004.
A combined automatic-and-manualmethod for studying discourse features incorpora.
Paper to be presented at the FifthNorth American Symposium on CorpusLinguistics,  May 21-23, Montclair StateUniversity, NJ.Godfrey, J. Holliman, E. & McDaniel J.
1992SWITCHBOARD: Telephone speech corpusfor research and development.
Proceedings ofICASSP-92, 517-520.Leech, G., B. Francis, et al (1994).
The Use ofComputer Corpora in the TextualDemonstrability of Gradience in LinguisticCategories.
Continuity In Linguistic Semantics.C.
Fuchs and B. Victorri.
Amsterdam, JohnBenjamins Publishing Company: 57-76.McDonald, J.L., Bock, K. and M. Kelly.
1993.Word and world order: semantic, phonological,and metrical determinants of serial position.Cognitive Psychology 25: 188-230.Nissum, Malvina, Shipra Dingare, Jean Carlettaand Mark Steedman.
2004.
An annotationscheme for information status in dialogue.Submitted to LREC 2004O?Connor, M. Catherine.
2000.
Optimalitytypology of the DP: Markedness within thenominal.
NSP-grant.
BCS-0080377.O?Connor, M.
Catherine., Anttila, Arto, Fong,Vivienne and   Maling, Joan (2004).Differential possessor expression in English:Re-evaluating animacy and topicality effects.Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of theLinguistic Society of America, January 9-11,Boston, MA.Rosenbach, Anette (2002) Genitive Variation inEnglish.
Conceptual Factors in Synchronicand Diachronic Studies.
Berlin/New York:Walter de Gruyter.
)Rosenbach, Anette.
2003.
Aspects of iconicity andeconomy in the choice between the s-genitiveand the of-genitive in English.
In: G?nterRohdenburg & Britta Mondorf (eds.
).Determinants of Grammatical Variation inEnglish Berlin/New York: de Gruyter.Rosenbach, A., J. Aissen, and J. Bresnan.
2002.Pilot study of the influence of animacy onsubject choice in a reading task.
(HeinrichHeine University, UCSC, and Stanford)Silverstein, Michael.
1976.
Hierarchy of featuresand ergativity.
In Richard Dixon, editor,Grammatical Categories in AustralianLanguages.
Australian Institute of AboriginalStudies.Stefanowitsch, Anatol.
2000.
Constructionalsemantics as a limit to grammatical alternation:The two genitives of English.
in CLEAR(Cognit ive Linguistics: Explorations,Applications, Research), 3.Trommer, Jochen.
s.d.
Direction Marking and Casein Menominee,  http:/ /www.ling.uni-osnabrueck.de/trommer/nim.pdfWoolford, Ellen.
1999.
Animacy hierarchy effectson object agreement, in Paul Kotey ed.
NewDimensions in African Linguistics andLanguages (Trends in African Linguistics 3),203-216.Yamamoto, Mutsumi, 1999, Animacy andReference: a cognitive approach to corpuslinguistics , John Benjamins.
