OntoSem and SIMPLE: Two Multi-Lingual World ViewsMarjorie MCSHANE, Margalit ZABLUDOWSKI, Sergei NIRENBURG and Stephen BEALEInstitute for Language and Information Technologies (ILIT)University of Maryland Baltimore County1000 Hilltop CircleBaltimore, MD  21250  USAmarge@umbc.edu, margalit@rcn.com, sergei@umbc.edu, sbeale@umbc.eduAbstractIn this paper we compare programs of workthat aim to develop broad coverage cross-linguistic resources for NLP: OntologicalSemantics (OntoSem) and SIMPLE.
Theapproaches taken in these projects differ inthree notable respects: the use of anontology versus a word net as the semanticsubstrate; the development of knowledgeresources inside of as opposed to outside ofa processing environment; and thedevelopment of lexicons for multiplelanguages based on a single core lexicon orwithout such a core (i.e., in parallelfashion).
In large part, these differencesderive from project-driven, real-worldrequirements and available resources ?
areflection of their being practical ratherthan theoretical projects.
However, thatbeing said, we will suggest certainpreferences  regarding the content anddevelopment of NLP resources with a viewtoward both short- and long-term, high-level language processing goals.1 IntroductionOntological Semantics (OntoSem) is a multi-lingual text processing environment that takes asinput unrestricted text and, using a suite of staticresources and processors, automatically createstext-meaning representations (TMRs) which canthen be used as the basis for any NLP application,including MT, question answering, summarization,etc.
OntoSem knowledge resources are developedin coordination with each other and with theprocessors they serve.
Some of the resources arefully language independent while others are readilyparameterizable, wherein lies the cross-linguisticportability of the system.
Although in  this paper,we focus on OntoSem lexicons, a crucial point isthat they are not built in isolation but, rather, in anintegrated environment where their utility can betested and evaluated in a variety of practicalapplications.The SIMPLE project takes a different approachto achieving the dual goals of multilinguality andresource utility across applications.
It aims todevelop compatible (they use the term?harmonised?)
lexicons for 12 Europeanlanguages, attempting to foresee what will be mostuseful for applications but without referring to anyparticular processors that will use the informationand without building any other knowledgeresources to share the burden of semanticspecification.
As we will show, these differentpoints of departure lead to quite differentrealizations of cross-lingual lexicons for NLP.2 Overview of SIMPLEThe SIMPLE project is developing 10K-sense?harmonised?
semantic lexicons for 12 EuropeanUnion languages (Catalan, Danish, Dutch, English,Finnish, French, German, Greek, Italian,Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish), continuing theearlier PAROLE project, which developed 20K-sense morphological and syntactic lexicons forthese languages.
The lexicons are monolingual andare developed independently, with the word stockbased on corpus evidence for each language.
Toensure some overlap of lexical senses, certain BaseConcepts of EuroWordNet must be covered ineach language (462 nominal, 187 verbal and 185adjectival Base Concepts that were culled andcleaned from EuroWordNet).
This overlap willpermit direct interlinking among languages;interlinking of the rest of the lexical stock is slatedas future work.
Pustejovsky?s four Qualia (whichare, essentially, properties expressing formal,agentive, constitutive and telic meanings; seePustejovsky 1995) are used to specify certainaspects of word meaning, and a common library of140 template types is used to guide acquisition inall languages (Lenci et al2000a, 2000b).Lenci et al 2000b (p. 5) summarize theinformation that can be represented in a SIMPLElexicon entry: ?i) semantic type, corresponding tothe template the SemU (semantic unit) instantiates;ii) domain information; iii) lexicographic gloss; iv)argument structure for predicative SemUs; v)selectional restrictions on the arguments; vi) eventtype, to characterise the aspectual properties ofverbal predicates; vii) link of the arguments to thesyntactic subcategorization frames, as representedin the PAROLE lexicons; viii) Qualia Structure;ix) information about regular polysemousalternation in which a word sense may enter; x)cross-part-of-speech relations (e.g.
intelligent -intelligence; writer - to write); xi) synonymy.
?Below  is the SemU for a sense of lancet,instantiating the template Instrument (fromPalmer et al 2000).InstrumentUsem:     LancetBC number:Template_Type:  [Instrument]Unification_path:  [Concrete_entity|ArtifactAgentive |Telic]Domain:    MedicineSemantic Class:  InstrumentGloss: a surgical knife with a pointed double-edgedblade; used for punctures and small incisionsPred_Rep.
:    <Nil>Selectional Restr.
:  <Nil>Derivation:    <Nil>Formal:    isa (<lancet>, <knife>: [Instrument])Agentive:    created_by (<lancet>, <make>:[Creation])Constitutive:   made_of (<lancet>, <metal>:[Substance])has_as_part (<lancet>, <edge>:[Part])Telic:     used_for(<lancet>, <cut>: [Constitutive_change])used_by (<lancet>, <doctor>)Synonymy:    <Nil>Collocates:    Collocates (<SemU1>,?,<SemUn>)Complex:    <Nil>While the SIMPLE project is certainlyproducing useful resources, we would suggest thatthe lexical information and structure are beingoverly constrained by the frameworks selected,which we will comment on briefly in preparationfor an extended comparison between OntoSem andSIMPLE in section 4.EuroWordNet is being used as the anchor forsemantic description in SIMPLE.
However, likethe original English WordNet, it is not a property-rich ontology but, rather, a hierarchical net oflexical items whose use in NLP has the samepitfalls  as any non-ontological word net (e.g., lackof disambiguating power and lack of sufficientrelations between entities; see Nirenburg 2004c fora discussion of the insufficiency of WordNet forNLP).
In order to make up for the sparsity ofinformation in the semantic substrate, the SIMPLElexicons contain what would, we believe, be moreefficiently recorded in a single, sufficient ontology.For example, when the lexicon acquirers for eachlanguage use the Instrument template to describelancet, they must rerecord in the lexicon of each Lall of the language-independent property values forthis lexical item, like the values for the four Qualia(formal, agentive, constitutive, telic), the domain,the unification path, etc.
This is significantredundancy and, moreover, there is no guaranteethat acquirers will arrive at the same decisions,either through  error, oversight or competinganalyses of the phenomena in question.Another, in our view, insufficiently explainedaspect of SIMPLE is the priority given to Qualia asdescriptors of lexical  items.
The original inventoryof Qualia (from Pustejovsky 1995) consists of onlyfour properties of the hundreds that can usefully beused to link concepts for purposes of NLP.
Lenci etal.
(2000b) address this issue as follows:?Although they [the four Qualia] clearly do notexhaust the semantic content of lexical items,Pustejovsky (1995) has convincingly shown thatthese four Qualia dimensions play a particularlyprominent role in determining the linguisticbehavior of word senses, as well as in theexplanation of the generative mechanisms at thebasis of lexical creativity.
Qualia-basedinformation can be specified for all the parts ofspeech, although prima facie it seems to be moredirectly suitable for the characterization of certaintypes of nominals?.
However, there is large gapbetween theoretical interest and practicalapplication: in fact, because of this, the SIMPLEproject has moved toward an Extended QualiaStructure with more fine-grained subtypes of givenQualia.1In conclusion, we believe that SIMPLE ispursuing useful goals that could be pursued in evenmore useful ways by shifting the focus fromlexicon-only work to integrated work within anenvironment in which ontological and lexicalresources are developed together and where extanttypes of processors can be used to test the value ofresources as they are developed.3 Overview of OntoSemThe OntoSem approach to lexicon and ontologyacquisition differs from that used in SIMPLE1 As an aside, we see a parallel between focusing onQualia in lexical description and, for example, focusingon classes of verbs with respect to their alternations, asis done, for example, in Levin 1995.
While thedescriptions that derive from theoretically-drivenresearch such as this can certainly be useful, when itcomes to writing ?well-rounded?
semantic descriptionsof words for large-scale systems, there is no distinctionbetween a Quale and other properties.
Similarly, the factthat a verb belongs to some group with respect toalternations is no more or less important than its otherpotential group membership along other parameters.
SeeNirenburg and Raskin 2004 for further discussion ofthese and related issues.because OntoSem is an integrated text processingenvironment, meaning that knowledge resourcesare crafted hand-in-hand with each other and withprocessors such that responsibility for variousanalysis tasks can be distributed in an ideal (to thedegree of our understanding) way.OntoSem takes as input unrestricted raw textand carries out preprocessing, morphologicalanalysis, syntactic analysis and semantic analysis,with the results of semantic analysis represented asformal text-meaning representations (TMRs) thatcan then be used as the basis for a wide variety ofNLP applications.
Text analysis relies on:?
The OntoSem language-independent ontology,which is written using a metalanguage ofdescription and currently contains around 5,500concepts, each of which is described by anaverage of 16 properties.
In all, the ontologycontains hundreds of properties (which cover thesame territory as the Qualia plus much more).Fillers for properties can be other ontologicalconcepts or literals.?
An OntoSem lexicon for each languageprocessed, which contains syntactic and semanticzones (linked using variables) as well as calls to?meaning procedures?
(i.e., programs that carryout procedural semantics, see McShane et al2004a) when applicable.
The semantic zone mostfrequently refers to ontological concepts, eitherdirectly or with property-based modifications,but can also describe word meaning extra-ontologically, for example, in terms of modality,aspect, time, etc.
The current English lexiconcontains approximately 12K senses, including allclosed-class items and the most frequent verbs,as indicated by corpus analysis.
This Englishlexicon  took less than 1 person year to build andcan (as described below) be ported to otherlanguages.?
An onomasticon, or lexicon of proper names,which contains approximately 350,000 entriesand is growing daily using semi-automatedextraction techniques.?
A fact repository, which contains real-worldfacts represented as numbered ?rememberedinstances?
of ontological concepts (e.g., SPEECH-ACT-3366 is the 3366th instantiation of theconcept SPEECH-ACT in the world modelconstructed during the given run of the analyzer).?
The OntoSem text analyzers, which coverpreprocessing, syntactic analysis, semanticanalysis, and creation of TMRs.
They are largelyparameterizable and thus can be ported to otherlanguages.?
The TMR language, which is the metalanguagefor representing text meaning.
A very simpleexample of a TMR (simple because most of thesentences we process are much longer), whichreflects the meaning of the sentence He asked theUN to authorize the war, is as follows:REQUEST-ACTION-69AGENT      HUMAN-72THEME        ACCEPT-70BENEFICIARY     ORGANIZATION-71SOURCE-ROOT-WORD  askTIME       (< (FIND-ANCHOR-TIME))ACCEPT-70THEME      WAR-73THEME-OF     REQUEST-ACTION-69SOURCE-ROOT-WORD   authorizeORGANIZATION-71HAS-NAME     UNITED-NATIONSBENEFICIARY-OF   REQUEST-ACTION-69SOURCE-ROOT-WORD  UNHUMAN-72HAS-NAME    COLIN POWELLAGENT-OF     REQUEST-ACTION-69SOURCE-ROOT-WORD  he ; ref.
resolution doneWAR-73THEME-OF                ACCEPT-70SOURCE-ROOT-WORD  warDetails of this approach to text processing can befound, e.g., in Nirenburg et al 2004a,b.
Theontology itself, a brief ontology tutorial, and anextensive lexicon tutorial can be viewed athttp://ilit.umbc.edu.OntoSem has been used with languagesincluding English, Spanish, Chinese, Arabic andPersian, to varying degrees of lexical coverage(e.g., earlier, less fine-grained English and Spanishlexicons contained 40K entries and were used forMT in the Mikrokosmos project).
What makesOntoSem amenable to efficient cross-linguisticusage is that many of the resources are either fullylanguage independent (the ontology, the factrepository, the TMR metalanguage) orparameterizable in well understood ways.
Here wefocus on exploiting cross-linguistic similarity forlexical acquisition, but a similar analysis could beapplied to the OntoSem analyzers.3.
1  OntoSem LexiconsA basic verbal lexicon entry in OntoSem looks asfollows (in presentation format):watchwatch-v1synonyms ?observe?annodefinition  ?to observe, look at?example ?He?s watching the competition.
?syn-strucsubject    $var1   cat nv                $var0   cat vdirectobject   $var2   cat nsem-strucVOLUNTARY-VISUAL-EVENTagent   ^$var1theme   ^$var2The syntactic structure (syn-struc) says that this isa transitive sense of watch and the semanticstructure (sem-struc) says that a VOLUNTARY-VISUAL-EVENT ?
which is a concept in ourontology ?
must be instantiated in the TMR.
Thevariables are used for linking, so, for example, thesyntactic subject is linked to the meaning of theAGENT of the VOLUNTARY-VISUAL-EVENT (^ isread ?the meaning of?
).Apart from mapping directly to an ontologicalconcept, there are many other ?
and more complex?
ways to express meaning in OntoSem.
Forexample, one can map to an ontological conceptwith modified property values: e.g.,?
Zionist is described as a POLITICAL-ROLE  thatis the AGENT-OF a SUPPORT event whose THEMEis Israel.?
asphalt (v.) is described as a COVER eventwhose INSTRUMENT is ASPHALT.?
recall (v. as in they recalled the high chairs) isdescribed as a RETURN-OBJECT event that isCAUSED-BY a FOR-PROFIT-CORPORATION andwhose THEME is ARTIFACT, INGESTIBLE orMATERIAL.There are also a number of fully or partiallynon-ontological ways of describing meaning, likethe use of parametric values of mood or aspect.
Forexample, the auxiliary might as in He might comeover is described using the modality ?epistemic?,which deals with the truth value of a statement:syn-strucsubject    $var1   cat nv                $var0   cat vinf-cl    $var2   cat vsem-struc^$var2epistemic  .5agent   ^$var1meaning-procedurefix-case-role (value ^$var1) (value ^$var2) 22 This meaning procedure reassigns a case-role if thelisted AGENT case-role is inappropriate considering themeaning of $var1 and/or $var2: e.g., in the truck mightcome, truck is a THEME of a MOTION-EVENT, not anAnother set of extra-ontological semanticdescriptors is used for time expressions, as shownby the example of yesterday below.syn-strucroot   $var1   cat vmods   root $var0 cat advtype    pre-verb-post-clausesem-struc^$var1timecombine-time(find-anchor-time) (day 1) beforeAs already shown in the examples of might andyesterday, calls to procedural semantic routines(which may or may not be listed in the meaning-procedure zone of the lexicon entry) are usedwidely in OntoSem lexical description.
Thisreflects the fact that many aspects of meaningcannot be statically described but, rather, must becomputed.
An advantage of developing lexicalresources within a processing environment is beingable to assign responsibility for portions ofsemantic composition to resources best suited forthem.In addition to the means of lexical expressiondescribed above, OntoSem lexicon entries caninclude entities of any degree of complexity,including phrasals of any profile, as reported inMcShane et al 2004b.3.2  Porting OntoSem Lexicon Entries AcrossLanguagesAs is clear from the examples above, OntoSemprovides significant expressive power semantically(not to mention syntactically, which we do notpursue here).
Expressive means include mappingto the ontology (which itself is rich in property-value descriptors), mapping to the ontology withlexical supplementation of properties, or referringto extra-ontological microtheories like those thattreat time, reference resolution, comparison,ellipsis resolution, modality, aspect, etc.
Whatmust be emphasized, however, is how languageneutral ?
and therefore portable across languages ?the semantic descriptions are.
Whereas it is typicalto assume that lexicons are language-specificwhereas ontologies are language-independent,most aspects of OntoSem sem-strucs are language-independent, apart from the linking of specificvariables to their counterparts in the syn-struc.AGENT, and in I might get sick, I am an EXPERIENCER ofa DISEASE  event, not an AGENT of it.Stated differently, if we consider sem-strucs ?
nomatter what lexicon they originate from ?
to bebuilding blocks of the representation of wordmeaning (as opposed to concept meaning, as isdone in the ontology), then the job of writing alexicon for L2 based on the lexicon for L1 is inlarge part limited to a) providing an L2 translationfor the head word(s), b) making any necessary syn-struc adjustments and c) checking/modifying thelinking among variables in the syn- and sem-strucs.This conception of cross-linguistic lexicondevelopment derives in large part from thePrinciple of Practical Effability (Nirenburg andRaskin 2004), which states that what can beexpressed in one language can somehow beexpressed in all other languages, be it by a word, aphrase, etc.Apart from this theoretical justification forconceptualizing the sem-strucs as building blocksfor lexical representation, there are two practicalrationales: supporting consistency of meaningrepresentation across languages and using acquirertime most efficiently in large-scale lexicalacquisition.As regards consistency, the potential forparaphrase must be considered when buildingmulti-lingual resources.
For instance, ?weapons ofmass destruction?
can be described as the union ofCHEMICAL-WEAPON and BIOLOGICAL-WEAPON, orit can be described as WEAPON with the ability toKILL > 10,000 HUMANs (the actual numberrecorded will be treated by the analyzer in a fuzzyfashion; however, it would be less than ideal for alexicon for L2 to record 10,000 while a lexicon forL3 recorded 25,000).
While both representationsare valid, it is desirable to use the same one in alllanguages covered.
In addition, the decision ofhow to describe a notion ?
whether by ontologizingit, describing it using extra-ontological means,describing it using an existing concept withadditional properties and values defined ?
is oftena judgment call.
It would not be desirable for theacquirer of German to map the word Schimmel?white horse?
to the concept HORSE with the lexicalrestriction COLOR: WHITE, while the acquirer ofsome other language that also has a word for?white horse?
introduced an ontological conceptspecifically for this entity.
Again, while bothrepresentations are valid and, in this case,semantically equivalent, the general tendencyshould be to strive toward uniformity wherepossible.As concerns acquirer time, composing sem-strucs is, by far, the most time- and effort-intensiveaspect of writing OntoSem lexicon entries.
Thisderives from the wealth of expressive means; thefact that microtheories of time, reference, etc., arenaturally built during lexicon development (recallthat our environment is fully integrated withprocessors); and the fact that ontologydevelopment occurs hand-in-hand with lexicondevelopment.
Therefore, work on the first lexiconentry that describes a word sense ?
regardless ofthe language of origin ?
takes much more timethan editing a word sense for a new language.Moreover, although in the worst case some editingof entries is necessary for L2, L3, etc., in mostcases no such editing is needed.
Although onemight hypothesize this state of affairs based oncross-linguistic principles, we have tested it in thelexicon-porting experiment described below.3.3  An English to Polish Lexicon PortingExperimentFor the experiment, a bilingual English/Polishcomputational linguist took the English OntoSemlexicon as a seed and experimented with variousporting methods into Polish.The primary insight was that while manuallyporting individual lexical senses is quitestraightforward and will save time over acquisitionfrom scratch, porting lexicons wholesale is rathermore complex.
That is, manually providingtranslations for the senses in L1 is a conceptuallyrelatively simple task, complicated only by theneed for the occasional remapping of variables,editing of syntactic structures, omission of givensenses due to language lacunae (e.g., a phrasalencoded in L1 might not occur in L2 in a fixedform), etc.
However, if one attempts either to(semi-)automate the acquisition process and/or useL1 as a seed lexicon for more ?creative?acquisition of L2, the space of options becomesquite broad and must be constrainedprogrammatically in order to actually benefit fromthe reuse of semantic descriptions.For example, if a well-trained acquirer of L2 isusing L1 as a seed, questions that arise include:Should the base lexicon be left as is (consideringthat it is known to have incomplete coverage) orshould one attempt to improve its quality andcoverage while building L2?
Should L2 acquisitionbe driven by correspondences in head words orsimply by the content of sem-struc zones (e.g., allEnglish senses of table will be in one head entry,and typically will be acquired at once; should allsenses of all L2 translations of table be handled atonce during L2 acquisition or should the L2acquirer wait until he comes upon sem-strucs thatrepresent the given other meanings of the L2words)?
To what extent should the regularacquisition process ?
including ontologysupplementation ?
be carried out on L2?
Theanswers to all of these, and more such, questionsdepend entirely upon available resources andshould be informed by (a) experiments todetermine what works best for a given acquirer,and (b) the goals of a given project.As regards automation, the experiment foundthat automatically mapping L2 words to L1OntoSem entries works very well (at well over90%) when the machine-tractable L1-L2 resourceused to support this process has one sense of thegiven word in the given part of speech and theOntoSem lexicon also has one sense for the givenpart of speech.
The extraction and matching ofsuch senses represents a well-defined, extremelytime-efficient task, especially for specializedterminology that tends to have only one sense inany language.
When the mapping between sensesin the L1-L2 lexicon and the OntoSem lexicon ismore than one to one, manual linking of senses(which do not always correspond among thelanguages) has proved necessary, with the potentialbenefits of a time-saving interface becomingimmediately clear.34 Pudding in SIMPLE and OntoSemNow we return to the comparison betweenSIMPLE and OntoSem.
We use the example ofpudding, which is cited in numerous documentsrelated to SIMPLE.
The Qualia (in italics) andtheir values (in boldface) for this word are: formal?
substance; constitutive ?
ingredients; telic ?eat; agentive ?
make.
The stated rationale forencoding these qualia values in SIMPLE lexiconentries is that they are needed to understand thesemantics of the sentences like the following (fromLenci et al 2000b):a) John refused the pudding (= refused to eat: telic);b) That?s an easy pudding (= easy to make: agentive);c) There is pudding on the floor (= substance: formal);d) The pudding came out well (= has been made well:agentive);e) That was a nice bread pudding (= made of/ingredient:constitutive)We would suggest, as before, that the lexicon isnot the best place for this information and, further,that this information is incomplete.
Forcomparison, we present our approach to describingand processing pudding in the OntoSemenvironment.
Since OntoSem uses a full ontology(not a word net), the ontological specification ofthe concept PUDDING contains much of the needed3 Some automation of the mapping between L1-L2multi-sense words is possible as demonstrated byPianta, et al 2002, but the results still require intensivemanual work by an acquirer.information for processing all the above sentencescontaining pudding.
Moreover, since the OntoSemontology, lexicons and processors are developedtogether, their known mutual contributions driveresource acquisition.
Obviously, one cannot expectthe same approaches to be used in a lexicon-onlyproject like SIMPLE.
However, a non-trivialquestion, considering the expense of manualresource acquisition, is to what extent should webe developing resources separately fromprocessors that can use them, especially when thenature of processors crucially affects what isneeded of knowledge resources?Below is a subset (for reasons of space) of theproperties and values for the concept PUDDING inthe OntoSem ontology; the first 4 are locallyspecified while the others are inherited.PUDDINGIS-ADESSERTHAS-OBJECT-AS-PART  MILK, SUGAR, EGGFATTINESS     > .6THICKNESS     > .8Inherited from DESSERTBITTERNESS     0SALTINESS     0SWEETNESS     > .7SPICINESS     0Inherited from PREPARED-FOODTHEME-OF    PREPARE-FOOD, BUYPRODUCT-TYPE-OF   FOOD-SERVICE-ORGANIZATIONInherited from FOODTHEME-OF    INGESTInherited from ARTIFACTCREATION-RELATION HUMANCOST      > 0(Inheritance continues, from INANIMATE,PHYSICAL-OBJECT, OBJECT, ALL.
)Since all of the necessary information aboutPUDDING is encoded in the ontology, the OntoSemlexicon entry for pudding need only contain adirect link to the concept.The analysis of sentences (a)-(e) in OntoSem iscarried out as follows.
For (a), there is a lexicalsense of refuse that expects an OBJECT (not anEVENT, as in the main sense) as its direct object.This sense expects the semantic ellipsis of a verband, as such, is supplemented with a meaningprocedure called ?seek-specification?, whichsearches for the elided event.
There are twosources it searches: previous TMRs, for a recentsemantically viable event, and the ontology itself,for an EVENT (or EVENTs) whose default AGENT isHUMAN and default THEME is PUDDING.
Thissearch procedure in some cases returns more thanone candidate event to reconstruct the semanticellipsis.
While this is not always ideal, it doesreflect precisely the type of lexical ambiguity thatcan be resolved only by contextual clues.
Forexample, the sentence John refused the puddingcould be used in a supermarket context to describea situation where John refused to take/accept a freebox of pudding that was being pushed upon him bya promoter.
The desire to be able to treat thissecond reading of the sentence is the reason fortreating constraints in OntoSem abductively.
As faras one can tell, the constraints in SIMPLE arerigid: ?telic = eat?
for pudding is a hard constraint.In fact, the example John refused the pudding isrepresentative of a much broader class ofphenomena known as semantic ellipsis, thetreatment of which must be carried out byprocedural semantic routines (see McShane et al2004a for details).Example (b) is another case that OntoSemhandles through lexical and procedural semanticsworking in tandem.
The NP easy pudding isactually a construction {a value on the scaleDIFFICULTY + ARTIFACT} that is known to involvesemantic ellipsis.
Thus, we prepare for it in theOntoSem lexicon by associating this constructionwith the seek-specification meaning procedure,described above, which handles with equalefficacy easy pudding (PREPARE-FOOD), easy song(PERFORM-MUSIC), etc.Example (c) is handled trivially based on thefact that PUDDING is a PHYSICAL-OBJECT and, likeall PHYSICAL-OBJECTs, is ontologically defined forLOCATION.Example (d) is analyzed using the informationthat PUDDING is a PREPARED-FOOD and, as such, isthe THEME-OF PREPARE-FOOD, which in turn is achild of CREATE-ARTIFACT.
The lexicalized phrasal{ARTIFACT + come out + a value of evaluativemodality} is mapped to CREATE-ARTIFACT, withthe THEME being the given ARTIFACT and theevaluative modality being concretized based on theevaluative value of the lexical item (e.g., ?well?, asin ?the pudding came out well?
is mapped to?evaluative .7?).
This phrasal, of course, works forany ARTIFACT and any value of evaluativemodality, so lexicalizing it once is a real savings intime and effort.Example (e) has two possible treatments inOntoSem: on the one hand, the lexical item ?breadpudding?
could (and, ultimately, should ?
though itis not in the OntoSem lexicon at the moment)  belisted as a phrasal in the lexicon, described asPUDDING: HAS-OBJECT-AS-PART BREAD.
However,if it is not listed, it is treated by our productiverules for treating noun-noun compounds.
One ofthe N-N compound rules is that the patternMATERIAL + N is analyzed as N:HAS-OBJECT-AS-PART:MATERIAL.5 ConclusionsAlthough space does not permit us to fully describethe resources, programs and resulting TMRs forsentences (a)-(e), this snapshot of their processingunderscores the point that developing resourceswithin an environment where they are tightlycoupled with processing has clear advantages overdeveloping resources in the abstract.
Of course, inthe absence of a full environment, projects likeSIMPLE make sense.
However, the challenges ofresource development outside of an environmentare keenly felt by developers: as Calzolari(1999:42) reports: ?A dichotomy at stake here isthe one between generality of a LR [lexicalresource] vs. usefulness for applications.
Inprinciple, only when we know the actual specificuse we intend to do [sic] of a LR can we build the?very best?
LR for that use, but this has proved tobe too expensive and not realistic.
In practice,however, there exists a large core of informationthat can be shared by many applicative uses, andthis leads to the concept of ?generic?
LR, which isat the basis for the EAGLES initiative and of thePAROLE/SIMPLE projects, to be then enhancedand tuned with other means?.
The only aspect ofthis statement that we would dispute is theunrealistic nature of building resources forparticular systems.
If a system, like OntoSem,creates text-meaning representations that can beused equally effectively for many applications,then there is no reason why they cannot be builtspecifically for the given environment.
In otherwords, when the result of semantic analysis is ametalanguage-formulated TMR, programs of anyprofile can exploit this representation.
Stateddifferently, there need not be a direct link betweenend applications and the input text elements ortheir lexical representations.ReferencesLenci, Alessandro, Federica Busa, Nilda Ruimy,Elisabetta Gola, Monica Monachini, NicolettaCalzolari, Antonio Zampolli et al 2000a.SIMPLE Work Package 2, LinguisticSpecifications, Deliverable D2.1, March 2000.Lenci, Alessandro, Nuria Bel, Federica Busa,Nicoletta Calzolari, Elisabetta Gola, MonicaMonachini, Antoine Ogonowski, Ivonne Peters,Wim Peters, Nilda Ruimy, Marta Villegas,Antonio Zampolli.
2000b.
SIMPLE: A GeneralFramework for the Development of MultilingualLexicons.
Proceedings of LREC 2000.Levin, Beth.
1995.
English Verb Classes andAlternations.
Chicago: University of ChicagoPress.McShane, Marjorie, Stephen Beale and SergeiNirenburg.
2004a (forthcoming).
Somemeaning procedures of Ontological Semantics.Proceedings of LREC 2004, Lisbon, Portugal.McShane, Marjorie, Sergei Nirenburg and StephenBeale.
2004b (ms.).
The description andprocessing of multi-word expressions inOntoSem.
Available athttp://ilit.umbc.edu/RecentPubl.htm.Nirenburg, Sergei and Victor Raskin.
2004a(forthcoming).
Ontological Semantics, the MITPress, Cambridge, Mass.Nirenburg, Sergei, Stephen Beale and MarjorieMcShane.
2004b (forthcoming).
Evaluating theperformance of the OntoSem semantic analyzer.ACL 2004 Workshop on Text Meaning andInterpretation..Nirenburg, Sergei, McShane, Marjorie, StephenBeale.
Forthcoming.
2004c (forthcoming).
Therationale for building resources expressly forNLP.
Proceedings of LREC 2004, Lisbon,Portugal.Palmer, Martha, Ralph Grishman NicolettaCalzolari, Antonio Zampolli.
2000.Standardizing multilingual lexicons.
Paperpresented at the workshop on Web-BasedLanguage Documentation and Description 12-15December 2000, Philadelphia, USA.Pederson, Bolette Sandford and Britt Keson.SIMPLE - Semantic information formultifunctional plurilingual lexica: Someexamples of Danish concrete nouns.
SIGLEX99:Standardizing Lexical Resources Workshop,ACL99.Pianta, Emanuele, Luisa Bentivogli and ChristianGirardi.
2002.
MultiWordNet: Developing analigned multilingual database.
Proceedings of theFirst International Conference on GlobalWordNet, Mysore, India, January 21-25, 2002.Pustejovsky, J.
1995.
The Generative Lexicon.Cam, 28(1):11-21.
