Using a probabilistic model of discourse relationsto investigate word order variationCassandre CreswellCymfony, Inc.600 Essjay RdWilliamsville NY 14221USAccreswell@cymfony.comDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia PA 19104USAcreswell@ling.upenn.eduAbstractLike speakers of any natural language, speakers ofEnglish potentially have many different word ordersin which to encode a single meaning.
One key fac-tor in speakers?
use of certain non-canonical wordorders in English is their ability to contribute infor-mation about syntactic and semantic discourse rela-tions.
Explicit annotation of discourse relations is adifficult and subjective task.
In order to measure thecorrelations between different word orders and vari-ous discourse relations, this project utilizes a modelin which discourse relations are approximated us-ing a set of lower-level linguistic features, which aremore easily and reliably annotated than discourserelations themselves.
The featural model providesstatistical evidence for the claim that speakers usenon-canonicals to communicate information aboutdiscourse structure.1 Introduction: Non-canonical mainclause word order in EnglishUsers of natural languages have many ways to en-code the same propositional content within a sin-gle clause.
In English, besides the ?canonical?word order, (1), options for realizing a proposi-tion like GROW(MYRA,EGGPLANTS), include top-icalization, left-dislocation, it-clefts, and wh-clefts,shown in (2?5), respectively.
(1) Myra grows eggplants.
(2) Eggplants, Myra grows.
(3) Eggplants, Myra grows them.
(4) It?s eggplants that Myra grows.
(5) What Myra grows are eggplants.Corpus-based research has shown that theseforms are appropriate only under certain discourseconditions (Prince, 1978; Birner and Ward, 1998);among others.
These include the membership ofreferents in a salient set of entities (left-dislocationsand topicalizations) or the salience of particularpropositions (topicalizations and clefts).
For exam-ple, in (6), the topicalization is felicitous becausethere is a salient set KINDS OF VEGETABLES and asalient open proposition, that Myra stands in somerelation X with an element of that set.
(6) Myra likes most vegetables, but eggplantsshe adores.V = {KINDS OF VEGETABLES};P = X(m1 , v2 ), SUCH THAT v2 ?
VThe discourse conditions licensing the use ofthese non-canonical syntactic forms are necessaryconditions.
When they do not hold, native speak-ers judge the use of the form infelicitous.
They arenot, however, sufficient conditions for use becausesalient sets and open propositions are ubiquitousin any discourse context, but these non-canonicalforms are rare.
Each type alone makes up < 1%of utterances, across a variety of genres (Creswell,2003).In addition to their information structure func-tions, one additional communicative goal theseword orders fulfill is providing information abouthow an utterance is related to other discourse seg-ments (Creswell, 2003).
Native speaker intuitionsabout the appropriateness of non-canonicals in par-ticular contexts provide anecdotal evidence (i.e.based on listing individual examples) for this dis-course function.
To provide broader support for thisclaim, however, we need to be able to generalizeacross many tokens.Ideally, a corpus annotated with discourse rela-tions would be used to measure the correlations be-tween the presence of non-canonical word order andparticular discourse relations.
However, explicit an-notation of discourse relations is a difficult task, andone heavily dependent on the specific theory fromwhich the set of discourse relations is chosen.
In-stead, this paper describes how a set of more easily-annotated features can be used to create a simpli-fied approximation of the discourse context sur-rounding non-canonical (or canonical control) utter-ances.
These features are then used as the indepen-dent variables in a statistical model which providesevidence for claims about how speakers use non-canonical word order to communicate informationabout discourse relations.The remainder of the paper is organized as fol-lows: Section 2 describes how some non-canonicalword orders in English contribute to the establish-ment of certain discourse relations.
Section 3 de-scribes how these relations can be approximatedwith a probabilistic model composed of more eas-ily annotated features of the discourse context.
Sec-tion 4 presents results and discussion of using sucha model to measure the correlations between dis-course relations and word order.
Section 5 con-cludes and suggests improvements and applicationsof the model.2 Additional meaning of non-canonicalsyntax: discourse relationsThe meaning of a multi-utterance text is composednot only of the meaning of each individual utterancebut also of the relations holding between the utter-ances.
These relations have syntactic aspects, suchthat single utterances can be grouped together andcombined into segments recursively and are oftenmodeled as a hierarchical tree structure (Grosz andSidner, 1986; Webber et al, 1999).
Discourse re-lations may also have a semantic or meaning com-ponent; this property, when treated in the literature,is often referred to as coherence, subject matter, orrhetorical relations (Kehler, 2002; Halliday, 1985;Mann and Thompson, 1988).The use of an utterance with non-canonical wordorder helps hearers make inferences about both thesyntactic and semantic properties of discourse rela-tions between the utterance and the rest of the dis-course.
For both aspects of discourse relations, it isthe fact that the non-canonical order marks part ofthe utterance?s information as salient or discourse-old that assists these inferences.2.1 Syntax of discourse relationsOne substructure of a coherent discourse struc-ture is its attentional structure, which can be mod-eled as a stack of focus spaces (Grosz and Sidner,1986).
Each segment in the discourse tree has acorresponding focus space containing the currentlysalient discourse entities.
When a segment begins,its focus space is pushed onto the stack on top of anyother incomplete segments?
spaces.
When the seg-ment ends, the focus space is popped off the stack.When an utterance continues in the same segment,the focus stack is unchanged.Non-canonical utterances instruct hearers aboutwhere to attach segments to the discourse tree.
Be-cause of the necessary conditions that license theuse of a non-canonical, in most cases the openproposition or set is part of a focus space pushedonto the stack previously.
So, the non-canonicalform evokes the old proposition or set and thus re-activates the salience of that focus space.
Reactivat-ing the salience of the focus space in turn activatesthe salience of the discourse segment.
As a result,the hearer infers that the new segment associatedwith the non-canonical utterance should be attachedat the same level as this reactivated discourse seg-ment, i.e.
at a non-terminal node on the tree?s rightfrontier.
Any intervening segments should be closedoff, and their focus spaces should be popped off thestack.To illustrate, in (7) the use of the it-cleft occursafter an intervening discussion of a separate topic.It-clefts are used to indicate that an existential clo-sure of an open proposition is presupposed, here?t.YOU GOT TO MICHIGAN STATE AT TIME t. Thispresupposed material allows speaker B to mark thequestion as related to the prior discussion.
In a treestructure of this discourse, the cleft corresponds toan instruction to ?pop?
back to a higher level inthe tree when attaching the utterance, where speakerG?s career at Michigan State was under discussion.The canonical version in (8) is an abrupt and infe-licitous continuation of the discourse, as if B is un-aware of the previous discussion of G?s arrival atMichigan State.1(7) G: So for two years, I served as a project offi-cer for grants and contracts in health economicsthat that agency was funding.
I decided to go toacademia after that and taught at Michigan Statein economics and community medicine.
One thingI should mention is that for my last three monthsin government, I had been detailed to work on thePrice Commission which was a component of theEconomic Stabilization program.
[Description ofwork on Price Commission...]B: In what year was it that you got to MichiganState?
(SSA, ginsberg)(8) In what year did you get to Michigan State?2.2 Semantics of discourse relationsThe contribution of non-canonical utterances to theinference of semantic aspects of discourse relationsis also related to the fact that these word ordersmark (part of) an utterance?s content as discourse-old or presupposed.
Non-canonical word order is1Varying the placement of the primary prosodic stress mayimprove the version in (8); see Delin (1995) and Creswell(2003) for comparison of the discourse function of prosody andsyntax.used to indicate relations of RESEMBLANCE ratherthan CONTIGUITY.A CONTIGUITY relation is the basic relationfound in narratives.
According to Labov (1997), ut-terances in a prototypical narrative describe in theorder they took place a sequence of causally-relatedevents which lead up to a MOST REPORTABLEEVENT.
Kehler (2002), following Hobbs (1990),says the events should be centered around a systemof entities, and each event should correspond to achange of state for that system.
To infer a CONTI-GUITY relation between two utterances, the hearermust infer that their eventualities correspond to achange of state for that system.Inferring a RESEMBLANCE relation between twoutterances depends on a very different type of in-formation.
To establish RESEMBLANCE, the hearermust identify a common relation R that relates thepropositional content of two utterances and also thenumber and identity of their arguments (Kehler,2002).
Resemblance relations include PARAL-LEL, CONTRAST, EXEMPLIFICATION, GENERAL-IZATION, EXCEPTION, and ELABORATION.Non-canonicals are useful in resemblance rela-tions because 1) the presence of ?old?
material in anon-canonical helps overrule the default coherencerelation of CONTIGUITY by making that interpreta-tion less likely, and 2) the use of old material anda structured proposition assists the hearer in iden-tifying a common relation and corresponding argu-ments needed to establish RESEMBLANCE.This is illustrated in (9).
The use of a left-dislocation tells the hearer that the referent of a lotof the doctors is in a salient set.
By identifying thatset as {PROFESSIONAL PEOPLE}, the hearer can re-alize that the information being added about a lot ofthe doctors is going to be in an EXEMPLIFICATIONrelation with the earlier statement that professionalpeople in general began to think of themselves asdisabled.
(9) During the Depression an awful lot of peoplebegan to think of themselves as disabled, es-pecially professional people, who depended onclients whose business was on a cash basis?therewas no credit, this was a universe without creditcards.
A lot of the doctors, they were doing anawful lot of charity work.
They couldn?t sup-port themselves.
They?d have a little heart attack.They?d have disability insurance.
They went onthe insurance company rolls.
A lot of doctors haddisability insurance and a lot of others too.
Alot of the insurance companies stopped underwrit-ing disability insurance.
They couldn?t afford it.
(SSA, hboral)Ui-1 Ui??
Ui+1??e1??
e3??e4??e5??
e6??
e9??e7??e8??e2??Mi??
Mi+1??Mi-1??
??
R???
R??
?Figure 1: Approximating discourse relations (R)between utterances (U ) by examining lexical dis-course cues (M ) and relations between entities (e)(10) A lot of the doctors were doing an awful lot ofcharity work.Without the left-dislocation, identifying the in-clusion relationship between the set of professionalpeople and doctors is quite difficult.
The preferredinterpretation of the canonical version in (10) is onlythat the doctors were doing charity work for pro-fessional people who had no credit cards.
The left-dislocation supports the additional inference that theexemplification described above holds too.3 Probabilistic model of discourserelations and non-canonical syntaxTo provide evidence beyond individual examplesfor the phenomena in Section 2, we need to mea-sure the correlation between discourse relations andsyntactic form, but annotating discourse relationsdirectly is problematic.
Annotation of hierarchi-cal discourse structure is difficult and subjectivealthough efforts have been made (Creswell et al,2002; Marcu et al, 1999).
Even annotating lin-ear segmentation is challenging, particularly in thevicinity of segment boundaries (Passonneau andLitman, 1997).
Annotation of the semantics of dis-course relations requires a predetermined set of re-lation types, on which theories vary widely, makingtheory-neutral generalizations about the role of non-canonical syntax impossible.This project attempts to overcome these difficul-ties by indirectly deriving discourse relations bymapping from their known correlates to the useof certain non-canonical forms.
The correlatesused here are referential relations across utteranceboundaries and the presence and type of lexical dis-course markers or cue words.
These features areannotated with respect to a three-utterance windowcentered on a target utterance Ui, shown schemati-cally in Figure 1.These referential and lexical features build on thework of Passonneau and Litman (1997), who usethem in discourse segmentation.
Their use here isextended to also derive information about the se-Discourse RelationsDiscourse Markers Sentence Types Referential PatternsR2 R1T x yLWICmnp ?Figure 2: Influence of relations on independent anddependent variablesmantic and syntactic properties of the relations be-tween utterances.As illustrated in Figure 2, discourse relations (e.g.R1 ) influence observable patterns of referential re-lations (e.g.
x) and discourse markers (e.g.
m).
Wewant to test whether discourse relations also influ-ence the use of certain sentence types.
However, thediscourse relations themselves are not observabledirectly.
To measure their correlation with sentence-level syntax, we will only look at correlations ofreferential patterns and discourse markers with syn-tactic form.
In the logistic regression analysis per-formed here, syntactic form is the dependent vari-able; referential relations and lexical cues are theindependent variables.This analysis only measures the direct influenceof the independent variables on the dependent vari-able, and does not model the existence of a mediat-ing set of (unobserved) discourse relations, the re-sult being that it is unable to capture correlationsamong the independent variables.
This inherent in-adequacy of the model will be discussed further be-low.
Despite this inadequacy, a logistic regressionanalysis is used because it is a mathematically con-venient and well-understood way to model whichfeatures of the independent variables are significantin predicting the occurrence of each syntactic form,while taking into account the rare prior probabilitiesof the non-canonical syntactic forms.In order to decide whether the featural modelsprovide evidence to support the claims about dis-course relations and syntactic forms, we first needto make clear our assumptions about how refer-ential relations and lexical markers correlate withdiscourse relations.
Based on those assumptions,testable predictions can then be made about how ref-erential relations and lexical markers should corre-late with syntactic forms.Ref Utterances share center of attention; Cp of3 first utterance is Cb of second utterance.Mary?s a vegetarian.
She never eats meat.Ref Utterances have coreferential NPs.2 Mary likes Fred.
He?s very friendly.Ref Utterances have inferentially-related NPs.1 I bought an old bike.
The tire was flat.Ostriches are huge.
Finches are little.Ref Utterances have no NPs that share0 reference.Table 1: Values of referential relations featureThe lexical discourse marker feature is annotatedfor the target Ui and its preceding (Ui?1) and fol-lowing (Ui+1) utterances and has five values: and,but, so, other or none.
The predictions about thecorrelations between these lexical features and syn-tactic forms are based on the assumed correlationsbetween these lexical markers and discourse rela-tions.
First, if non-canonicals are indicators of at-tentional stack pops, they should be more likely atsegment boundaries; hence, we expect an increasedpresence of cue words (Passonneau and Litman,1997) on non-canonicals compared to canonicals.Predictions about the type of cue words arebased on the survey of lexical cue meanings fromHirschberg and Litman (1994).
Because and is anindicator of segment-continuation and the relationCONTIGUITY, we expect decreased incidence onnon-canonicals.
However, we expect greater inci-dence on Ui+1 when Ui is non-canonical becauseUi should be used to start a new segment.
The pres-ence of but indicates a CONTRAST relation.
Non-canonicals should have a greater likelihood of beingin contrast with either of the utterances surround-ing them,2 so we expect a greater incidence of buton both Ui and Ui+1 for non-canonicals than forcanonicals.
The presence of so can indicate RE-STATEMENT or RESULT, so so should appear moreoften on Ui for wh-clefts, which are often used inELABORATION relations.The referential features are four-valued and an-notated with respect to pairs of utterances, (Ui?1,Ui) and (Ui, Ui+1).
The values here, described inTable 1, form an implicational scale from strongestto weakest connections, and the utterance pair is la-beled with the strongest relation that holds.In general, the more semantic content two utter-ances share, the more likely they are to be related.Referential connections are the measure of sharedcontent used here.
Discourse relations vary in theirlikelihood to be associated with certain values of2See Creswell (2003) for examples and discussion.Ref, shown in Table 2.
For example, an utteranceimmediately following a discourse pop, should beunlikely to share a center with its immediately pre-ceding utterance and be highly likely to share no ref-erences at all.
Two utterances in a RESEMBLANCErelation (other than ELABORATION) are likely tohave inferential connections without coreferentialconnections.
Note that for nearly all of these pat-terns, the correlation between a referential featurevalue and the syntax or semantics of a discourse re-lation is not absolute but only more or less likely.Using a probabilistic model, however, allows forpatterns of relative likelihood in the data.Based on the assumptions in Table 2, we cannow make predictions about expected correlationsbetween the referential features and utterances withnon-canonical word orders.
These predictions arebased primarily on how we expect non-canonicalutterances to compare with canonical utterances.However, when we test them on our data, we willalso compare each type of non-canonical utterancewith the others.?
Non-canonicals should be more likely thancanonicals to follow a POP and begin a new seg-ment.
They should have weaker referential tiesto the preceding utterance.
They should have ahigher incidence of having no referential ties toUi?1, and a lower incidence of having no referen-tial ties to Ui+1.?
Non-canonicals should be less likely than canon-icals to have a NARRATIVE relation with eitherUi?1 or Ui+1.
This situation predicts that with re-spect to both of the utterances surrounding a non-canonical utterance, these utterances will be lesslikely to share the same center of attention thanwhen Ui is canonical.?
Non-canonicals should be more likely thancanonicals to be in RESEMBLANCE relations withUi?1 and/or Ui+1.
So, a greater likelihood of ref-erence to inferentially-related entities and smallerlikelihood of reference to coreferential entities orshared centers in both the preceding and follow-ing utterance is expected.4 Results and discussionTo test the predictions about non-canonicals anddiscourse relations, a corpus of 799 utterances withnon-canonical word order were extracted from 58transcribed interviews from the Social Security Ad-ministration Oral History Archives (SSA), a cor-pus with ?750,000 words and 44,000 sentences.
Inaddition to the four types of non-canonicals, 200randomly-selected controls with canonical word or-der were also included.
Table 4 lists the breakdownSyntactic Type No.
of TokensIt-cleft 150Left-dislocation 258Topicalization 111Wh-cleft 280Control 200Total 999Table 3: Corpus of utterances by syntactic typeby syntactic type.
The two lexical and three referen-tial features described in the previous section wereannotated for each of the 999 utterances.Logistic regression models for binary compar-isons between each of the five sentence types werethen created.
For 9 of 10 comparisons, at least oneof the five features were found to be significant.3Table 4 lists all features found to be significantfor each of the ten comparisons, i.e.
features that in-dividually have a significant effect in improving thelikelihood of a model when compared to a modelthat uses no features to predict the distribution of thetwo classes.4 For comparisons with multiple fea-tures significant at the five-percent level, the p-valueof the model fit in comparison with a fully saturatedmodel is listed in the fourth column of Table 4.In order to understand the most likely context inwhich a form to appears, we need to examine theweights assigned to each feature value by the re-gression analysis.
The detailed feature weights inthe best model are listed in Table 5.Table 6 summarizes the general conclusions wecan draw from these weights about the most favor-able discourse contexts for each of the four typesof non-canonicals.
For considerations of space, wediscuss in detail only one of the four types here, wh-clefts.
Wh-clefts are particularly relevant with re-spect to the insights they provide into the inherentlimitations of our model of discourse relations.Overall, wh-clefts are favored in contexts wherethey start a new segment, one with weak connec-tions with the preceding utterance and strong con-nections with the following utterance.
In particu-lar, feature 4, REF(Ui?1,Ui), is significant in the3The comparison of it-clefts and left-dislocations is the ex-ception here.
From the lack of significant features in this com-parison we can surmise that the it-clefts and left-dislocationsare more similar to each other than any of the other forms com-pared here.4In particular, the measure whose significance is tested isthe -2?
(difference in log-likelihoods of the models), which is?2 distributed, where the number of degrees of freedom is thedifference in the total number of feature values between the twomodels.Relation between 3.
Shared 2.
Coreferring 1.
Inferentially-related 0.
No sharedUj and Uk center entities entities only referenceSYNTACTIC POP unlikely less likely possible likelyPUSH, BEGIN possible likely possible unlikelyEMBEDDED SEGCONTINUE IN highly possible possible highlySAME SEG likely unlikelySEMANTIC RESEMBLANCE unlikely possible likely impossible(not ELABORATION)ELABORATION possible likely impossible impossibleNARRATIVE highly possible unlikely highlylikely unlikelyTable 2: Predictions from ref.
features to discourse relationsCLASS VS. CLASS Feat.
(p < .05) Feat.
(p < .2) Overall Model Fit ?2 p-valueCONTROL, IT-CLEFT 2 5 (0.097) n.a.CONTROL, LEFT-DIS.
4,5 3 (0.161) p=0.9289CONTROL, TOPIC.
3 2 (0.178) n.a.CONTROL, WH-CLEFT 2,4 3 (0.151) p=0.8696IT-CLEFT, LEFT-DIS.
?
1 (0.106), 4 (0.086) ?IT-CLEFT, TOPIC.
3 2 (0.092) , 4 (0.099) n.a.IT-CLEFT, WH-CLEFT 4 1 (0.184) n.a.LEFT-DIS, TOPIC.
3,4 5 (0.129) p =0.8561LEFT-DIS, WH-CLEFT 1,4 5 (0.147) p=0.7615TOPIC, WH-CLEFT 2,3,4 ?
p=.6935 (with 3,4)Table 4: Features significant at p < 0.05 and p < 0.2.
Features significant at p < 0.01 are in bold.
Features1, 2, and 3 are discourse marker features on Ui?1, Ui, and Ui+1, respectively.
Features 4 and 5 are referentialfeatures for the pairs (Ui?1,Ui) and (Ui,Ui+1), respectively.Sentence type Most Favorable ContextsTopicalizations CONTINUE with Ui?1; CON-TRAST with Ui?1 or Ui+1Wh-clefts POP after Ui?1; CONTRASTor CONTINUE with Ui+1Left-dislocations POP after Ui?1 or RESEM-BLANCE with Ui?1; CON-TINUE with Ui+1It-clefts No strong tendencies for be-gin/end of segments; pos-sible CONTRAST relationswith Ui?1, Ui+1Table 6: Summary: favorable discourse contextscomparison of wh-clefts with all other classes.
Wh-clefts are much more likely to share no connec-tions at all with Ui?1 and less likely to share onlyinferential connections when compared with anyother class.
In comparison with everything but left-dislocations, wh-clefts are also less likely to sharetheir center of attention with Ui?1.In terms of discourse markers, feature 2 and 3are significant when comparing topicalizations andcontrols with wh-clefts (although feature 3 is onlyweakly significant in comparing wh-clefts and con-trols.)
For feature 2, MARKER(Ui), wh-clefts areless likely than either of the other two to appear withand and more likely to appear with so.
For feature3, however, the presence of and on Ui+1 favors wh-clefts over topicalizations and controls.The most likely context in which to find wh-cleftsthen is one with no referential connections to theprevious utterance and marked with the discourseadverbial, so.
When the Ui+1 begins with and, as-sumed to be a marker of continuation of the previ-ous content, wh-clefts are also favored.
This patternresembles most closely the descriptions of a preced-ing discourse POP and a subsequent discourse CON-TINUE or NARRATIVE.One use of wh-clefts that is not borne out conclu-sively in the data is its use in ELABORATION rela-tions, as in (11).
Kehler (2002) describes elabora-tions as a case of RESEMBLANCE where the predi-cate and its arguments are the same, but describedfrom a different perspective or level of detail.
Thehearer must infer the identity of the event and en-CONTROL CONTROL CONTROL CONTROL IT-CLEFT IT-CL EFT IT-CLEFT LEFT-DIS.
LEFT-DIS.
TOPIC.IT-CLEFT LEFT-DIS.
TOPIC.
WH-CLEFT LEFT-DIS.
TOPI C. WH-CLEFT TOPIC.
WH-CL EFT WH-CLEFT1.
MARK a 0.655(Ui?1) b 0.326s 0.500o 0.542n 0.4812.
MARK a 0.548 0.600 0.665(Ui) b 0.399 0.444 0.604s 0.249 0.246 0.172o 0.689 0.628 0.483n 0.628 0.602 0.6303.
MARK a 0.514 0.595 0.603 0.343(Ui+1) b 0.266 0.232 0.268 0.804s 0.408 0.406 0.470 0.579o 0.738 0.685 0.641 0.311n 0.574 0.602 0.533 0.4294.
REF 0 0.418 0.352 0.334 0.662 0.420 0.279(Ui?1, Ui) 1 0.443 0.575 0.639 0.566 0.634 0.
5742 0.511 0.493 0.458 0.501 0.493 0.4673 0.627 0.583 0.571 0.280 0.450 0.6865.
REF 0 0.785(Ui,Ui+1) 1 0.4012 0.3703 0.409Table 5: Individual feature weights in best model.
Feature weights >0.5 favor the application value (classcategory) listed first; weights <0.5 favor the second application value.
The farther away from 0.5, thestronger the feature value?s effect on the distinction between the two classes.tities being described in the two segments.
If wh-clefts are associated with ELABORATIONS, then weshould see an increased incidence of close referen-tial connections with Ui?1 and an increased inci-dence of so, a marker of restatement.
In the results,however, we only see evidence for the latter.
(11) S: How did you develop this Resource-BasedRelative Value Scale at this point?H: We basically treated this as a researchproject because most of us involved realizedwe had some past failures and we shouldnot over-promise.
We should be prepared toface up to the world and say, ?We cannotmake the theory operational.?
So what we didwas we continued to accept the theoreticalpremise, that is the rational and objectiveprice should be based on the cost of theservice.
Then we asked, ?What constitutesthe cost of physicians?
services and what arethe components of physicians?
work??
(SSA,hsiao)A possible factor in the absence of evidence hereis that wh-clefts are also associated with discoursepops, which increase the likelihood of having noreferential connections with the previous utterance.The logistic regression model used here aggregatesover all possible discourse relations.
So, when twodiscourse relations that give rise to different lexi-cal and referential patterns are both associated witha single sentence type, the patterns of one may ob-scure the patterns of the other.
A more sophisticatedstatistical model might take into account dependen-cies between discourse markers and referential pat-terns and from them posit hidden states which cor-respond to different discourse relations.
Then basedupon these hidden states, the model would predictwhich sentence type would best fit the context.
Sucha model would be more true to Figure 2.Another limitation of the model shown here isthat the only indicators in this model of starting anew segment are weak or absent referential rela-tions, presence of a connective like so, and absenceof and.
These measures will not necessarily distin-guish between continuing in the same segment orbeginning a new segment which includes recently-mentioned discourse-old entities.5 Conclusions and potential applicationsThe statistical model here uses a combination of ref-erential and lexical features annotated for a smallwindow surrounding the target utterance to repre-sent the local discourse context surrounding utter-ances with non-canonical and canonical word or-ders.
The primary goal was to model the correla-tions between discourse relations and non-canonicalsyntax.
Due to the difficulties inherent in annotatingdiscourse relations directly, the featural approxima-tion was devised as a practical alternative.Overall, the method used here yielded some in-teresting new insights into the contexts that favorthe use of four types of non-canonical word order.The complexity of this approach does make it diffi-cult to draw simple conclusions about the relation-ship between discourse relations and non-canonicalsyntactic forms.
However, the strength of some ofthe correlations found here merits further investiga-tion.
The data also lend support for the idea thatsome aspects of discourse relations, both syntacticand semantic, can be inferred from combinations oflower-level linguistic features.An important factor in improving upon the cur-rent project is the need for larger amounts of data.The significance of any particular feature is greatlyaffected by the quantity of data.
This was a par-ticular issue for the lexical feature values, where itprevented inclusion of several of the less frequentconnectives with better understood discourse struc-turing properties, like well and now.
In addition,more data may also be required in order to supportthe use of more complex statistical models.
Auto-matic methods of annotating the referential featuresor the availability of larger corpora marked up withcoreferential and inferential relations and with a richvariety of syntactic forms could be used to test moreaccurately the predictions in Section 3.The technique used here for approximating dis-course relations through more easily annotated fea-tures has at least two interesting potential applica-tions.
One, given the significant correlation of thesefeatures with non-canonical word order variation,the discriminative models trained here could be usedas classifiers which could label discourse contexts(feature vectors) with the form best suited to thecontext for the surface realization stage in a natu-ral language generation system.Secondly, the feature set used here could be ap-plied to the problem of automatic classification ofdiscourse relations.
In conjunction with a rela-tively small set of pairs of sentences for whichthere is high inter-annotator agreement when hand-annotated for type of discourse relation, the lexicaland referential features here could serve as an initialfeature set for bootstrapping the development of astatistical discourse relation classifier.
This applica-tion would require stipulation of a predetermined setof discourse relations?a requirement the presentstudy wished to avoid.
However, given the practicalneed for a statistical relation classifier, a set of rela-tions could be constructed suitable to the domain ofuse.ReferencesBirner, B., and G. Ward.
1998.
Information status and non-canonical word order in English.
John Benjamins.Creswell, C. 2003.
Syntactic form and discourse function innatural language generation.
Doctoral Dissertation, Uni-versity of Pennsylvania.Creswell, C., K. Forbes, E. Miltsakaki, R. Prasad, A. Joshi, andB.
Webber.
2002.
The discourse anaphoric properties ofconnectives.
In Proceedings of DAARC 4, 45?50.
Lisbon,Portugal: Edicoes Colibri.Delin, J.
1995.
Presupposition and shared knowledge in it-clefts.
Language and Cognitive Processes 10:97?120.Grosz, B. J., and C. L. Sidner.
1986.
Attention, intentions,and the structure of discourse.
Computational Linguistics12:175?204.Halliday, M. A. K. 1985.
An introduction to functional gram-mar.
Baltimore: Edward Arnold Press.Hirschberg, J., and D. J. Litman.
1994.
Empirical studies on thedisambiguation of cue phrases.
Computational Linguistics19:501?530.Hobbs, J. R. 1990.
Literature and cognition.
Stanford: CSLI.Kehler, A.
2002.
Coherence, reference, and the theory of gram-mar.
CSLI Publishers.Labov, W. 1997.
Some further steps in narrative analysis.
Jour-nal of Narrative and Life History .Mann, W. C., and S. A. Thompson.
1988.
Rhetorical StructureTheory: towards a functional theory of text organization.Text 8:243?281.Marcu, D., E. Amorrortu, and M. Romera.
1999.
Experimentsin constructing a corpus of discourse trees.
In Proceedingsof the ACL workshop: Towards standards and tools fordiscourse tagging, ed.
M. Walker, 48?57.Passonneau, R., and D. Litman.
1997.
Discourse segmentationby human and automated means.
Computational Linguis-tics 23:103?139.Prince, E. F. 1978.
A comparison of wh-clefts and it-clefts indiscourse.
Language 54:883?906.Webber, B., A. Knott, M. Stone, and A. Joshi.
1999.
Discourserelations: a structural and presuppositional account usinglexicalised TAG.
In ACL 37, 41?48.
College Park, MD.
