Interpreting Communicative Goals in Constrained Domainsusing Generation and Interactive NegotiationAure?lien MaxGroupe d?Etude pour la Traduction AutomatiqueGETA-CLIPSGrenoble, Franceaurelien.max@imag.frAbstractThis article presents an approach to in-terpret the content of documents in con-strained domains at the level of com-municative goals.
The kind of knowl-edge used contains descriptions of well-formed document contents and textsthat can be produced from them.
Theautomatic analysis of text content isfollowed by an interactive negotiationphase involving an expert of the classof documents.
Motivating reasons aregiven for an application of this ap-proach, document normalization, andan implemented system is briefly intro-duced.11 IntroductionA classical view on text interpretation is to havea syntactic parsing process followed by seman-tic interpretation derived from syntactic structures(Allen, 1995).
In practice, however, buildingbroad-coverage syntactically-driven parsing gram-mars that are robust to the variation in the inputis a very difficult task.
Sometimes, it may not berelevant to perform a fine-grained analysis of thesemantic content of text.
Indeed, there are caseswhere what should be recognized is the high-levelcommunicative intentions of the author.
Depend-ing on the kind of interpretation that is targeted1The author was affiliated to Xerox Research Centre Eu-rope (XRCE) and GETA when this work was carried out un-der a PhD grant.from a text, some semantic distinctions need notbe recognized.
For example, the two followingsentences found in a drug leaflet may not carry sig-nificantly different communicative goals in spiteof their clear semantic differences:?
Consult your doctor in case of pregnancy be-fore taking this product.?
Consult a health professional in case of preg-nancy before taking this product.We have identified a domain of application,document normalization, where text interpretationcan be limited in many cases to the interpretationof a text in terms of the communicative goals itconveys (Max, 2003a).
We have defined documentnormalization as the process that first derives thenormalized communicative content of a text in aconstrained domain (e.g.
drug leaflets), and thengenerates the normalized version of the text in thelanguage of the original document.
We consid-ered three levels in a normalization model for doc-uments in constrained domain:1.
Communicative goals: the communicativegoals that can appear in a document in con-strained domain belong to a predefined reper-toire.2.
Communicative structure: the communica-tive structure describes the content of a docu-ment in terms of compatible communicativegoals, as well as how these communicativegoals are organized in a document.3.
Natural language: the language used shouldbe as comprehensible as possible.
To thisend, every communicative goal should be as-sociated with an expression that could beconsidered as ?gold standard?.Figure 1 shows a warning section found in thedrug leaflet for a pain reducer.
Manually deriv-ing a normalized version of this document ex-tract using a normalization model requires identi-fying the communicative goals present in the doc-ument, which may be deduced from textual evi-dence found at different places in the document.Once identified, these communicative goals mustbe compared with the normalized ones in the pre-defined repertoire.
We consider the four followingcases:1.
A communicative goal in the document isclearly identified as belonging to the prede-fined repertoire.2.
A communicative goal in the document be-longs to the predefined repertoire, but severalnormalized communicative goals are in com-petition due to some evidence found in thedocument.3.
A communicative goal in the document doesnot belong to the predefined repertoire, but itis deemed close to a normalized communica-tive goal.4.
A communicative goal in the document can-not be matched with any normalized commu-nicative goal.Once the normalized communicative goals havebeen identified, the communicative structure canbe built (provided there are no incompatibilities)and the corresponding normalized textual versionproduced.
A possible normalized text correspond-ing to the input document of figure 1 is given onfigure 2.The very general Warnings section has beensplit into several subsections.
Communicativegoals that were expressed in the same sentencehave been isolated and reformulated in separatesentences, as is the case for the communicativegoal indicating that the product should not betaken in case of allergy to aspirin.
This commu-nicative goal was found in a complex sentence,Do not take this product if you have asthma, anallergy to aspirin, stomach problems.
.
.
, and wasreformulated as DO NOT TAKE THIS DRUG IFYOU ARE ALLERGIC TO ASPIRIN in the sectionabout product warnings.The communicative goal warning about therisk of Reye?s syndrome in children is expressedin a long and complex sentence: Children andteenagers should not use this medicine for chickenpox or flu symptoms before a doctor is consultedabout Reye syndrome, a rare but serious illnessreported to be associated with aspirin.
Consid-ering the fact that no other communicative goalsshould be in competition with this one in thisclass of documents when Reye?s syndrome isinvolved, its identification can be quite simple.2In fact, it illustrates the fact that the interpretationof communicative goals within documents inconstrained domains may not always require avery fine-grained semantic analysis, and that someindicators can already be quite informative.However, it is unquestionable that in generalidentifying communicative goals and comparingthem to predefined communicative goals clearlyrequires high-level interpretation capabilities,which would normally be those of an expert ofthe domain.
With our application to normalizedocuments as target, we have proposed an ap-proach to extract the communicative content ofdocuments in constrained domains automatically.Considering that we wanted to obtain a practicalnormalization system, we further defined anapproach to allow a human expert identifying thecorrect communicative content of a documentfrom the set of hypotheses produced automati-cally.This task should not be confused with textparaphrasing, for example for rewriting into a2We do not claim that this is necessarily true in expertmedical terms.
Nonetheless, the normalization model thatwe used only considered this communicative goal involvingReye?s Syndrome.Drug Interaction Precautions:Do not take this product if you are taking a prescription drug for anticoagulation (thinning the blood),diabetes or gout unless directed by a doctor.Warnings: Children and teenagers should not use this medicine for chicken pox or flu symptomsbefore a doctor is consulted about Reye syndrome, a rare but serious illness reported to be associatedwith aspirin.
Do not take this product if you have asthma, an allergy to aspirin, stomach problems (suchas heartburn, upset stomach, or stomach pain) that persist or recur, ulcers or bleeding problems, or ifringing in the ears or a loss of hearing occurs, unless directed by a doctor.
Do not take this product forpain for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor.
If pain persists or gets worse, if new symptomsoccur, or if redness or swelling is present , consult a doctor because these could be signs of a seriouscondition.
As with any drug.
If you are pregnant or nursing a baby, seek the advice of a health profes-sional before using this product.
It is especially important not to use aspirin during the last 3 monthsof pregnancy unless specifically directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in theunborn child or complications during delivery.
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children.
Incase of accidental overdose, seek professional assistance or contact a poison control center immediately.Alcohol Warning: If you consume 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day, ask you doctor whether youshould take aspirin or other pain relievers or fever reducers.
Aspirin may cause stomach bleeding.Figure 1: Example of a warning sections in a drug leaflet for a pain reducerWARNINGSProduct warnings.
DO NOT TAKE THIS DRUG IF YOU ARE ALLERGIC TO ASPIRIN.
Do nottake this product for more than 10 days unless directed by a health professional.
Consult your doctor ifpain persists or gets worse.Alcohol.
Do not take alcohol when you take this drug or ask your doctor for an alternative pain reducer.Particular conditions.
A doctor should be consulted before taking this drug if you have any of thefollowing conditions:- asthma- stomach problems- ulcers- bleeding problemsChildren and teenagers.
CONSULT A DOCTOR BEFORE ADMINISTERING THIS PRODUCTTO A CHILD OR A TEENAGER, AS IT CAN INCREASE THE RISKS OF A SERIOUS ILLNESSCALLED REYE?S SYNDROME.Pregnancy.
Consult a doctor before taking this drug if you are pregnant.
Using aspirin during the last3 months of pregnancy may cause problems to the unborn child or complications during delivery.Overdose.
Stop taking this drug immediately and call a poison control control center or a healthprofessional if you have taken too much of this drug.Figure 2: Normalized text corresponding to the warning section of figure 1controlled language (see e.g.
(Nasr, 1996)).
Themain objective of our task is to identify whichcommunicative goals from a given repertoireoccur in a document, and to build a well-formedcommunicative structure that contains them.3Because the speech acts conveying a com-municative goal (such as one that says that adoctor should be consulted before taking a givendrug in case of pregnancy) can be performedunder a wide range of surface forms, text para-phrasing would have to transform very differentsurface forms into the same target normalized text.Through document normalization, we want toenforce 4 properties of document well-formednessthat should be encodable into the normalizationmodel used:?
Well-formedness of the communicativestructure of documents: sentences should bewell articulated to form a coherent discourse.?
Consistency of the communicative content:incompatible communicative goals shouldnot coexist in the same document.?
Completeness of the communicative content:communicative content imposed by somecommunicative goal must be present.?
Comprehensibility and coherence of the lan-guage used: readers should be able to identifyeasily the communicative intentions acrossdocuments of the same class.Text paraphrasing into a controlled languageat the level of the sentence would only enforcethe last property, because if controlled languagerules can enforce some level of semantic well-formedness, they cannot guarantee the three otherproperties.3It is true, however, that document normalization of agiven document with very particular properties relative to anormalization model could be achieved by text paraphrasingat the level of the sentence, but this is too specific to us.2 Automatic analysis of thecommunicative content of a documentin constrained domainSeveral approaches have already been experi-mented to analyze the content of documents inconstrained domains, which can vary dependingon the amount of surface analysis of the text.One type of approach uses information extractiontechniques such as pattern matching that usestrong predictions on the content and attempt tofill templates derived from a model of the domain(e.g.
(Blanchon, 2002)), thus not giving too muchimportance to syntactic structure.
Another typeof approach first performs a syntactic analysisof the text, from which semantic dependenciescan be extracted.
The system presented in (Brunand Hage`ge, 2003) derives normalized predicatesencoding the meaning of documents from seman-tic dependencies found by a robust parser.
Thisallows obtaining identical semantic interpretationsfor paraphrases such as ProductX is a colorless,non flammable liquid and ProductX is a liquidthat has no colour and that does not burn easily.These approaches require an encoding of tem-plates and extraction or normalization rules thatmay be difficult to build and to maintain.
Fur-thermore, if they seem appropriate for extractingsurface semantic information, interpreting com-municative goals using these techniques may bemore difficult.
Indeed, communicative goals canbe expressed with different surface texts carryingsemantic differences that may not bear any signifi-cance for our purpose and may not always be con-sidered as paraphrases.
In the following examplesfrom pain reducer leaflets, it may be acceptablethat a particular normalization model consider thethree following sentences as carrying one and onlycommunicative goal:1.
This product should not be taken for morethan 14 days without first consulting a healthprofessional.2.
If pain persist after 14 days, consult your doc-tor before taking any more of this product.3.
If symptoms persist for 2 weeks, stop usingthis product and see a physician.In order to be able to identify communicativegoals, we believe that it is important to considerthem within a well-formed communicative struc-ture.
Therefore, we think that the central objectsfor analysis should be well-formed descriptionsof document communicative content4, as it maybe counterproductive to spend too much efforton the fine-grained analysis of surface text.
Ifsemantic dependencies can be expressed in thesedescriptions, then the space of possible contentswill filter out incompatible communicative goalsand thus disambiguate without always requiring amore fine-grained semantic analysis.We have proposed an approach for the deepcontent analysis of documents in contraineddomain, fuzzy inverted generation (Max andDymetman, 2002).
Well-formed document con-tent representations are produced for the class ofthe input document.
From these representations,normalized texts are generated, and a score ofsemantic similarity taking into account commondescriptors is computed between the normalizedtexts and the text of the input document.
The un-derlying hypotheses are, as we said earlier on, thatconsidering well-formed content representationscan restrict the space of the communicative goalsto consider, and that the presence of informativetextual indicators can help identifying commu-nicative goals.However, the space of content representationsbeing potentially huge, a heuristic search can beperformed to find the candidate representationswith the best global scores.
Moreover, in order tobetter cover the space of possible texts, the gener-ation of the text can be done non-deterministically,so that several texts will compete over the inputdocument from the same content representation.Figure 3 shows how several texts produced from acontent representation can span several documentsfrom the space of possible texts.
The contentrepresentation that corresponds to the text with the4This is under the assumption that the input documentsare semantically well-formed and complete, but if they arenot then the model used can indicate for what reasons theyare ill-formed, and document normalization can be used tocorrect those documents so that they become valid relative tothe normalization model.Figure 3: Fuzzy inverted generationhighest similarity score with the input documentis then considered to be the most likely candidate.3 Interactive validation of the correctcommunicative contentRelying solely on information retrieval techniquesto associate a normalized content representationto an input document is unfortunately unlikely toyield good results, even if linguistically-orientedtechniques can improve accuracy (Arampatziset al, 2000).
We have advocated an interactiveapproach to text understanding (Dymetman et al,2003) where the input text is used as a source ofinformation to assist the user in re-authoring itscontent.
Following fuzzy inverted generation, aninteractive negotiation can take place between thesystem and its hypotheses (the candidate contentrepresentations) on the one hand, and a humanexpert on the second.
A naive way would be tolet the expert choose which hypothesis is correctbased on the normalized text associated with eachone of them.
But this would be a tedious anderror-prone process.
Rather, underspecificationsfrom analysis can be found by building a compactrepresentation of the candidates, and then used toengage in negotiations over local interpretationissues.Using interactive validation with generatedtexts has already been used in several domains:for example, (Blanchon, 1994) proposed disam-biguation dialogues involving reformulations fordialogue-based machine translation; (Overmyeret al, 2001) proposed a text that can be usedto inspect the domain object model automa-tically built from a text describing a softwareengineering domain model.
In the followingsection, we introduce our implementation of aprototype system for interactive document nor-malization based on the two presented approaches.4 Interactive document normalizationsystemSystems implementing controlled documentauthoring (Hartley and Paris, 1997) are based onan interaction with an author who makes semanticchoices that define the content of a document,from which multilingual textual versions can beproduced.
Therefore, these systems integrateresources that can be used to represent documentcontent and to generate textual versions of thedocuments.
The MDA system developed atXRCE (Dymetman et al, 2000; Brun et al,2000) uses a formalism inspired from DefiniteClause Grammars (Pereira and Warren, 1980)that encodes both the abstract semantic syntax ofwell-formed documents and the concrete syntaxfor the documents in several languages.5 MDAgrammars contain the definition of semanticobjects of a given semantic type, which are usedto build typed abstract semantic trees.
Impor-tantly, the formalism can encode the three levelsfor a normalization model that we described inour introduction: semantic objects can be ofany granularity and can thus be communicativegoals; the communicative structure is describedby the abstract semantic syntax, which can beused to express semantic dependencies acrosssubtrees; and the text generated is entirely undercontrol, so normalized texts can be associatedwith communicative goals.5This is achieved by developing parallel grammars thatshare the same abstract semantic syntax, but specify concretesyntax for a particular language.Figure 4: Architecture of our document normal-ization systemFor the reasons given above, we used theformalism of MDA for our implementation.
Thearchitecture of our normalization system is shownon figure 4.
Textual descriptors (WordNet synsetsin our current implementation) are first extractedfrom the text of the input document to build theprofile of the input document.
The MDA grammarused was previously compiled offline in order toassociate profiles to each semantic objects andtypes described in the grammar.
Fuzzy invertedgeneration is then performed from the profile ofthe document and the profiled grammar.
Detailson the implementation using MDA grammars havebeen described elsewhere (Max, 2003a; Max,2003b).The set of abstract semantic trees extracted byfuzzy inverted generation is then used to buildFigure 5: Factorized abstract semantic treea compact representation (a factorized abstractsemantic tree) for interactive negotiation with anexpert.
The output of this phase is a single abstractsemantic tree, such as the one shown on figure5 that is used for interactive validation.
Theicon represents a semantic object that dominatesa semantic subtree containing no underspecifica-tions; the icon represents a semantic object thatdoes not take part in any underspecification, butwhich dominates a subtree that contains at leastone; the icon represents a semantic type thatis underspecified, that is for which at least twosemantic objects are in competition; finally, theicon denotes semantic objects in competition,which are ordered for a given type by decreasingscore of plausibility.The MDA grammar used for analysis can thenbe used to produce the text associated with thistree, which corresponds to the normalized versionof the input document that was validated by theexpert.The interface of our system displays an enumer-Figure 6: Example of a negotiation dialogueation of all the underspecifications found in thecompact representation.
They are ordered by de-creasing score, where the score can indicate theaverage score of the objects in competition, orthe inverse of the average number of candidatesper object in competition.
Therefore, the expertcan choose to resolve first underspecifications thatcontain likely objects, or underspecifications thatinvolve few candidates so that the validation of anobject will prune more candidates from the com-pact representations.
Clicking on an underspeci-fication in the list triggers a negotiation dialoguesimilar to that on figure 6.
The semantic type onthat dialogue, specifies how links are shown, isnot supported by any evidence in the input docu-ment.
The expert can however choose a value forit.5 PerspectivesWe have presented a practical approach to contentanalysis at the level of communicative goals,in which a strong emphasis is put on documentcontent well-formedness.
Providing the expert iswilling to spend enough time, the communicativecontent of a document can be interactively built.The better the system performance, the lesstime is needed to identify the correct candidatecontent representation.
The fact that the expertcan read the corresponding normalized text(on the MDA view) can help guarantee that thewhole validation process was carried out correctly.We now need to grow our grammars for Unixcommands and drug leaflets, and to enrich ourtest corpus of annotated documents (raw text andabstract semantic structure)6 for these classes in6Documents for the test corpus can be obtained by usingorder to be able to carry out evaluation.
Evaluationshould be performed on two aspects.
First, theperformance of fuzzy inverted generation could bemeasured, for a given normalization model and ona given source of documents, by the position andrelative score of the candidate content representa-tion corresponding to the normalized document.Second, we want to evaluate the usability of ouruser interface supporting interactive negotiation.An evaluation corresponding to the number ofsteps and the time needed to obtain the normalizedversion of a document would be a good indicator.Moreover, we plan to implement the possibilityfor the expert to add new formulations found indocuments to better match communicative goalsin subsequent normalizations.
It will then beinteresting to evaluate the impact of this kind ofsupervised learning on system performance anduser acceptance.
Our next challenge will be toinvestigate how our approach can be applied todocuments in less-constrained domains for whichnormalization models cannot be entirely built apriori.AcknowledgmentsMany thanks to Marc Dymetman and ChristianBoitet for their supervision of this work.ReferencesJames Allen.
1995.
Natural Language Understanding.Benjamin/Cummings Publishing, 2nd edition.Avi Arampatzis, Th.
P. ven der Weide, P. van Bommel,and C.H.A Koster.
2000.
Linguistically MotivatedInformation Retrieval.
Encyclopedia of Library andInformation Science, 69.Herve?
Blanchon.
1994.
LIDIA-1: une premire ma-quette vers la TA interactive pour tous.
Phd thesis,Universite?
Joseph Fourier, Grenoble.Herve?
Blanchon.
2002.
A Pattern-based Analyzer forFrench in the Context of Spoken Language Transla-tion: First Prototype and Evaluation.
In Proceedingsof COLING-02, Taipei.our system on each document, or by re-creating the contentwith the MDA system.
Building a significant corpus is a time-consuming task that we have not finished yet.Caroline Brun and Caroline Hage`ge.
2003.
Normal-ization and Paraphrasing using Symbolic Methods.In Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshopon Paraphrasing (IWP2003) at ACL-03, Sapporo,Japan.Caroline Brun, Marc Dymetman, and Veronika Lux.2000.
Document Structure and Multilingual Author-ing.
In Proceedings of INLG 2000, Mitzpe Ramon,Israel.Marc Dymetman, Veronika Lux, and Aarne Ranta.2000.
XML and Multilingual Document Author-ing: Convergent Trends.
In Proceedings of COLING2000, Saarbrucken, Germany.Marc Dymetman, Aure?lien Max, and Kenji Yamada.2003.
Towards Interactive Text Understanding.
InProceeding of ACL-03, interactive posters session,Sapporo, Japan.Anthony F. Hartley and Ce?cile L. Paris.
1997.
Mul-tilingual Document Production - From Support forTranslating to Support for Authoring.
MachineTranslation, 12:109?128.Aure?lien Max and Marc Dymetman.
2002.
DocumentContent Analysis through Inverted Generation.
InActes de l?atelier Using (and Acquiring) Linguis-tic (and World) Knowledge for Information Accessdu AAAI Spring Symposium Series, Universite?
Stan-ford, Etats-Unis.Aure?lien Max.
2003a.
De la cre?ation de docu-ments normalise?s a` la normalisation de documentsen domaine contraint.
Phd thesis, Universite?
JosephFourier, Grenoble.Aure?lien Max.
2003b.
Reversing Controlled Docu-ment Authoring to Normalize Documents.
In Pro-ceedings of the EACL-03 Student Research Work-shop, Budapest, Hungary.Alexis Nasr.
1996.
Un mode`le de reformulation dephrases fonde?
sur la the?orie Sens-Texte.
Applicationaux langues contro?le?es.
Phd thesis, Universite?
Paris7.Scott P. Overmyer, Benoit Lavoie, and Owen Ram-bow.
2001.
Conceptual Modeling through Linguis-tic Analysis using LIDA.
In Proceedings of the 23rdinternational conference on Software Engineering,ICSE, Toronto, Canada.Fernando Pereira and David Warren.
1980.
DefiniteClauses for Language Analysis.
Artificial Intelli-gence, 13.
