Cooperative Question Answering in Restricted Domains:the WEBCOOP ExperimentFarah BenamaraInstitut de Recherches en Informatique de Toulouse, IRIT118, route de Narbonne,31062, Toulouse, Francebenamara@irit.frAbstractWe present an experiment for designing a logicbased QA system, WEBCOOP, that integratesknowledge representation and advanced rea-soning procedures to generate cooperative re-sponses to natural language queries on the web.The system is first developed for the tourismdomain.
We then examine how and under whatconditions this system can be re-used for otherdomains.1 IntroductionThe current trend in Question Answering is to-wards the processing of large volumes of open-domain texts (e.g.
documents extracted fromthe World Wide Web).
Open domain QA isa hard task because no restriction is imposedeither on the question type or on the user?svocabulary.
This is why, most of the efforts(Voorhees, 2003) are focused on answering fac-toid style questions (and to a little extend, def-inition questions) using shallow text processingwhich is roughly based on pattern extraction orinformation retrieval techniques.
However, QAshould support the integration of deeper modesof language understanding as well as more elab-orated reasoning schemas for more complex QAstrategies, in order to provide, for example,better answer ranking, answer justification, re-sponses to unanticipated questions or to resolvesituations in which no answer is found in thedata sources.
Cooperative answering systemsare typically designed to deal with such situa-tions, by providing non-misleading, and usefulanswers to a query.
(Grice, 1975) maxims ofconversation namely the quality, quantity, rela-tion and style maxims are frequently used as abasis for designing cooperative answering sys-tems.
An overview of cooperative answeringtechniques is given in (Gaasterland et al, 1994).In COGEX (Moldovan et al, 2003), a recentQA system, authors used automated reasoningfor QA and showed that it is feasible, effec-tive and scalable.
This logical prover aims atchecking and extracting all kinds of lexical re-lationships between the question and its can-didate answers using world knowledge axioms,supplied by WordNet glosses, as well as rewrit-ing rules representing equivalent classes of lin-guistic patterns.
Such inference techniques (e.g.lexical equivalence, unification on logical repre-sentations of texts) are not sufficient for provid-ing intelligent or cooperative responses.
Indeed,advanced strategies for QA requires, as we ex-plain in this paper, the integration of reasoningcomponents operating over a variety of knowl-edge bases, encoding common sense knowledgeas well as knowledge specific to a variety of do-mains.We relate in this paper, an experiment for de-signing a logic based QA system, WEBCOOP,that integrates knowledge representation andadvanced reasoning procedures to generate co-operative responses to natural language (NL)queries on the web.
This experiment is first car-ried out on a relatively restricted domain thatincludes a number of aspects of tourism (ac-commodation and transportation, which havevery different characteristics on the web).
Thetourism domain is in fact half way between anopen domain and a closed domain (e.g.
weatherforecast, Unix technical manuals).
The tourismdomain has a kernel roughly around accom-modation and transportation, but it also in-cludes satellite domains, such as history, secu-rity, health, immigration, ecology, etc.
Thosesatellite domains are only partly considered,from the point of view of the ?kernel?
domains.We also observe that there is, in fact, a kindof continuum between the notions of open do-main and closed domain, via restricted domainswhich makes quite fuzzy the definition of whata restricted domain is.Besides the technical functionalities of WEB-COOP, the main goal of this paper is to eval-uate the different facets of the portability ofWEBCOOP.
Three major points are at stake:(1) resources, in term of language resourcesand kinds of knowledge required, (2) coopera-tive procedures involved, such as identifying andexplaining user false presuppositions, relaxingconstraints or providing intensional responses,and finally (3) the intelligibility of the systemoutputs (such as hyperlinks, short responses orlist of answers), considering that answers shouldalso include a trace of the inferences drawn.In the next sections, we briefly present theWEBCOOP architecture focusing on the kindsof knowledge and cooperative procedures in-volved.
Then, we analyze the main characteris-tics of the tourism domain and outline its mainfeatures as a restricted domain.
Then, we ana-lyze the portability of this type of QA systemto other restricted domains.
Finally, we proposean evaluation methodology based on experimen-tal psychology for the point (3) cited in the lastparagraph.2 The WEBCOOP Architecture2.1 A Corpus Based ApproachTo have a more accurate perception of how co-operativity is realized in man-man communi-cation, we collected a corpus of question an-swer pairs (QA pairs) found in a number ofweb sites dedicated to different kinds of largepublic domains.
60% of the corpus is dedicatedto tourism (our implementation being based onthis application domain), 22% to health and theother QA pairs are dedicated to sport, shoppingand education.
The analysis of this corpus aimsat identifying the external form and the concep-tual categories of questions, as well as categoriz-ing the different cooperative functions deployedby humans in their discourse.
Our main claim isthat an automatic cooperative QA system couldbe induced from natural productions withoutloosing too much of the cooperative contentsproduced by humans.
We noted that humanresponses are much more diverse than any ma-chine could produce in the near future.
Never-theless, it is possible to normalize these formsto more stereotyped utterances.2.2 The ArchitectureThe general architecture of the system (figure1) is inspired from our corpus analysis.
Oursystem being a direct QA system, it does nothave any user model.In WEBCOOP, NL responses are producedFigure 1: The WEBCOOP architecturefrom first order logical formulas constructedfrom reasoning processes carried out by an infer-ence engine.
Our approach requires the develop-ment of a knowledge extractor from web pages(Benamara and Saint Dizier, 2004b) (viewed asa passage retrieval component) and the elabo-ration of a robust question parser.
We assumethat the most relevant documents to the user?squestion are found using standard informationretrieval techniques and that the relevant para-graphs that respond to the question keywordsare correctly extracted from those documents(Harabagiu and Maiorano, 1999).
Then, ourknowledge extractor transforms each relevantparagraphs into a logical representation.
TheWEBCOOP inference engine has to decide, viacooperative rules, what is relevant and how toorganize it in a way that allows for the realiza-tion of a coherent and informative response.Responses are structured in two parts.
Thefirst part contains explanation elements in nat-ural language.
It is a first level of coopera-tivity that reports user misconceptions in re-lation with the domain knowledge (answer ex-planation).
The second part is the most im-portant and the most original.
It reflects theknow-how of the cooperative system, going be-yond the cooperative statements given in partone.
It is based on intensional description tech-niques and on intelligent relaxation proceduresgoing beyond classical generalization methodsused in AI.
This component also includes ad-ditional dedicated cooperative rules that makea thorough use of the domain ontology and ofgeneral knowledge.
In WEBCOOP, responsesprovided to users are built in web style by in-tegrating natural language generation (NLG)techniques with hypertexts in order to producedynamic responses (Dale et al, 1998).We claim that responses in natural languagemust make explicit in some way, via explana-tions and justifications, the mechanisms that ledto the answer.
For each type of inference used inWEBCOOP, we define general and underspec-ified natural language templates (Reiter, 1995)that translate the reasoning mechanisms in ac-cessible terms.
A template is composed of threeparts, S, F, and R, where :-S are specified elements,-F are functions that choose for each conceptin the ontology, its appropriate lexicalization,- R are logical formulas representing the restof the response to be generated.The underspecified elements, F and R, de-pend on the question, on local semantic factorsand on the type of solution elaborated.
Theirgeneration relies on ontological knowledge, gen-eral linguistic knowledge and lexicalisation andaggregation functions.
Templates have been in-duced from a number of QA pairs found in largepublic domaines.
Responses have been normal-ized without loosing too much of their accuracyin order to get stereotyped response forms us-able in NL generation frameworks.
A large por-tion of underspecified elements, within a tem-plate, is presented as an hyperlink to the useras illustrated in the examples in the next sec-tion.
Here is an example of a template dedi-cated to one of our relaxation schemas.
It isused when the question focus is relaxed usingits sister nodes in the ontology.
Specified ele-ments are in italic:un autre type de lexicalisation(mother node):(lexicalisation(sister node))+ R. 1At the moment, in WEBCOOP we have 28basic templates.2.3 Two Typical ExamplesThe following examples illustrate WEBCOOPoutputs.Example1.
Suppose one wishes to rent a 15person country cottage in Corsica and (1) thatobservations made on the related web pages or(2) that a constraint or a regulation, indicatesthat the maximum capacity of a country cottagein Corsica is 10 persons (figure 1).The first part of the response relates the de-tection of a false presupposition or the viola-1A template fragment of the form (fragment)+, in-dicates that that fragment occurs in the generated re-sponse at least one time.tion of an integrity constraint for respectivelycases (1) and (2) above.
Case (2) entails theproduction of the following message, generatedby a process that evaluates the question logicalformula against the knowledge base: A chaletcapacity is less than 10 persons in Corsica.
InFigure 2: Detection of a misconception andquery relaxationa second step, the know-how component of thecooperative system generates a set of flexible so-lutions as shown in the figure above, since thefirst part of the response is informative but notreally productive for the user.
The three flexiblesolutions proposed emerge from know-how co-operative rules based on relaxation proceduresdesigned to be minimal and conceptually rel-evant.
The first flexible solution is based ona cardinality relaxation, while in the last twosolutions, relaxation operates gradually on con-cepts such as the type of accommodation (hotelor pension) or the region (possibly a close-byregion, with similar characteristics), via the do-main model and the ontology.
Dynamically cre-ated links are underlined.
The user can then, atwill, get more precise information, dynamicallygenerated from the data base of indexed webpages.
For technical details on how relaxed re-sponses are elaborated and generated in NL see(Benamara and Saint Dizier, 2004a).Example 2.
Suppose a user asks for meansof transportation to go to Geneva airport.
InWEBCOOP, we have a variable-depth inten-sional calculus which allows us, experimentally,to tune the degree of intensionality of responsesin terms of the abstraction level in the ontologyof the generalizes.
This choice is based on a con-ceptual metrics that determines the ontologicalproximity between two concepts.
The goal is tohave a level of abstraction adequate for the user.A supervisor manages both the abstraction leveland the display of the elaborated intensional an-swers (IA).
The retrieved IA are structured intwo parts.
First, the generation of a responsewith generalizations and exceptions: all trains,buses and taxis go to the airport.
Then, a sortedlist of the retrieved extensional answers is gen-erated according to the frequency and to thecost of transportation.
This strategy avoids theproblem of having to guess the user?s intent.
Fortechnical details on how IA are elaborated andgenerated in NL see (Benamara, 2004).Figure 3: Variable depth intensional answers3 Sources of Knowledge andInference mechanisms inWEBCOOP3.1 Knowledge Representation for theTourism Domain: a TypologyA first question about knowledge, for automat-ing the production of cooperative responses,concerns the type and the typology of knowl-edge involved and where such knowledge canbe best represented: in databases, in knowledgebases, in texts (involving knowledge extractionor fragments of text extractions).
So far, thedifferent forms of knowledge we have identifiedare, roughly:1. general-purpose, factual information(places, distances, proper names, etc.),2.
descriptive information like flight sched-ules, hotel fares, etc.
that we find in generalin databases,3.
common sense knowledge and constraintssuch as: for a given trip, the arrival timeis greater that the departure time,4.
hierarchical knowledge: such as a hotel isa kind of tourist accommodation.
Thisknowledge is often associated with prop-erties that define the object, for examplea restaurant is characterized by its type offood, category, localization, etc.5.
procedures or instructions that describehow to prepare a trip or how to book aroom in a given hotel category.6.
definitions,7.
regulations, warnings,8.
classification criteria of objects accordingto specific properties such as sorting hotelsaccording to their category.9.
interpretation functions, for example, offuzzy terms (e.g.
expensive, far from thebeach).Items 8 and 9 have a quite different nature,but they are closely related to the domain atstake.3.2 Knowledge Representation inWEBCOOPLet us now consider how these forms of knowl-edge are represented.
WEBCOOP has twomain forms for encoding knowledge: (1) generalknowledge and domain knowledge representedby means of a deductive knowledge base, thatincludes facts, rules and integrity constraintsand (2) a large set of indexed texts, where in-dexes are logical formulae.
Our semantic rep-resentation is based on a simplified version ofthe Lexical Conceptual Structure (LCS).
Let usreview these below.The kernel-satellite structure of the tourismdomain requires that we study, for this appli-cation, portability and data integration aspectsfor each satellite domain.
At this level of com-plexity there is no ready-made method that wecan use; furthermore, most of the work is donemanually.
The results of the integration reflectour own intuitions coupled with and applied ongeneric data available on the web.a.
The knowledge base is coded in Prolog.It includes basic knowledge, e.g.
country namescoded as facts or distance graphs betweentowns, coded as facts and rules.
It also includesrules which play at least two roles: dataabstraction (e.g.
to describe the structure of anobject, besides e.g.
part-of descriptions foundin the ontology):hotel stay cost(Hotel ID, NbNights, Total):- hotel(Hotel ID, Night rate),Total is NbNights * Night rate.and the encoding of conditional situations:book flight(A) :-person(A), age(A, AG), AG > 17.which says that you can book a flight if youare at least 18 years old.
Finally the knowledgebase contains integrity constraints.
For exam-ple, the constraint:constraint([chalet(X), capacity(X,C), C>10], fail).indicates that ?a chalet cannot accommodatemore than 10 persons?.The ontology, described below, contains datawhich can be interpreted as facts (e.g.
hierarchi-cal relations), rules or integrity constraints (assimple as domain constraints for property val-ues).
Currently, our KB contains 170 rules and47 integrity constraints, which seems to cover alarge number of situations.b.
The ontology is basically conceptualwhere nodes are associated with concept lexi-calizations and essential properties.
Each nodeis represented by the predicate :onto-node(concept, lex, properties)where concept is described using propertiesand lex are possible lexicalisations of concept.Most lexicalisations are entries in the lexicon(except for paraphrases), where morphologicaland grammatical aspects are described.
Forexample, for hotel, we have:onto-node(hotel, [[htel], [htel,rsidence]], [night-rate, nb-of-rooms]).There are several well-designed public domainontologies on the net.
Our ontology is inspiredfrom two existing French ontologies, that wehad to customize: TourinFrance 2 and thebilingual (French and English) thesaurus oftourism and leisure activities 3 which includes2800 French terms.
We manually integratedthese ontologies in WEBCOOP (Doan et al,2002) by removing concepts that are either toospecific (i.e.
too low level), like some basicaspects of ecology or rarely considered, as e.g.the economy of tourism.
We also removed quitesurprising classifications like sanatorium undertourist accommodation.
We finally reorganizedsome concept hierarchies, so that they ?look?more intuitive for a large public.
Finally, wefound that some hierarchies are a little bit odd,for example, we found at the same level accom-modation capacity and holiday accommodationwhereas, in our case, we consider that capacityis a property of the concept tourist accommoda-2www.tourinfrance.net3www.iztzg.hr/indokibiblioteka/THESAUR.PDFtion.
We have, at the moment, an organizationof 1000 concepts in our tourism ontology whichdescribe accommodation and transportationand a few other satellite elements (geography,health, immigration).c.
The lexicon contains nouns, verbs andadjectives related to the tourism domain, ex-tracted from both corpora and ontologies.
Thelexicon contains also determiners, connectorsand prepositions.
The lexicon is constructeddirectly from the revised ontologies for nouns.Nouns contain basic information (e.g.
pred-icative or not, count/mass, deverbal) coded byhand, their ?semantic?
type, directly character-ized by their ancestor in the ontology, and asimple semantic representation.
Verbs are thosefound in our corpora.
We have a large verbKB (VOLEM project)(Fernandez et al, 2002)of 1700 verbs in French, Spanish and Catalan.The verb lexicon is extracted from this KB al-most without modification.
For tourism, in-cluding request verbs, we have 150 verbs.
Sinceverbs are central in NLG, it is crucial that theyget much information, in our system: thematicroles, selectional restrictions, syntactic alterna-tions, Wordnet classification, and semantic rep-resentation (a conceptual representation, a sim-plification of the Lexical Conceptual Structure).d.
Indexed texts.
Our knowldge extractor,which is based on the domain ontology, trans-forms each text fragment into the followinglogical representation : text(F, http) whereF is a first-order formula that representsknowledge extracted (in general) from a webpage, with address http (or explicit text).For example, indexed texts about airporttransportations in various countries have thefollowing form:text(route(50) ?
to(50, cointrin)?bymeansof(50, Y )?tramway(Y )?airport(cointrin)?localization(cointrin, in(geneva)), www.gva.ch).Indexed paragraphs also describe categoriessuch as: procedures, regulations, warnings orclassifications.
Texts identified as such are in-dexed by indicating (1) the category in whichthey fall, (2) a keyword or a formula that iden-tifies the nature of the procedure, regulation,etc., and (3) the text itself, generally used assuch in a response.e.
Query representation and evalua-tion.
Processing a query allows for the iden-tification of: the type of the query (yes/no,Boolean or entity, etc.
), the question focus andthe construction of its semantic representationin first-order logic.
For example, the question:what are the means of transportation to go toGeneva airport ?
has the following logical rep-resentation: (entity,meansoftransportation(Y ),route(X) ?
to(X,Z)?bymeansof(X,Y ) ?meansoftransportation(Y )?airportof(Z, geneva))Given a fragment of text, we infer that it is ananswer to a question by two different ways: (1)from the deductive knowledge base, in that case,responses are variable instances or (2) from theindexed text base, and in that case, responsesare formulae which unify with the query for-mula.
In this latter case, roughly, unificationproceeds as follows.
Let Q (conjunction of termsqi) be the question formula and F (conjunctionof fj) be a formula associated with an indexedtext.
F is a response to Q iff for all qithere isan fjsuch that:(i) qiunifies with fjor(ii) qisubsumes, via the concept ontology,fj(e.g.
means-of-transportation(Y) subsumestramway(Y)), or(iii) qirewrites, via rules of the knowl-edge base, into a conjunction of fj, e.g.
:airportof(Z, geneva) rewrites into: airport(Z) ?localisation(Z, in(geneva)).3.3 Inference Needs for ProvidingCooperative ResponsesWe develop a general typology of cooperativefunctions.
The aim is to identify the typesand sources of knowledge associated with eachof these functions.
In terms of portability, wethink that annotating in QA corpora of a spe-cific domain the various cooperative functionsused should help identify the needs in terms ofknowledge for the development of each coop-erative function.
It remains, then, to evaluatethe validity and the adequacy of the inferenceschemas, but these can only be evaluated a pos-teriori, whereas the types of knowledge can beevaluated a priori.Another perspective is that, given the de-scription of the forms of knowledge associatedwith an application, it may be possible to antic-ipate what kinds of cooperative functions couldbe implemented for this application.We decompose cooperative functions into twomain classes: Response Elaboration (ER)and Additional Information (ADR).
Thefirst class includes response units that proposealternatives to the question whereas the lattercontains a variety of complements of informa-tion, which are useful but not absolutely neces-sary such as precision, suggestion or warnings.Figure 4 shows the different kinds of knowl-edge involved for each of the cooperative func-tions that belong to the ER class 4 :Figure 4: Cooperative functions and related knowl-edgeIn the tourism domain, queries are very di-verse in form and contents.
From that pointof view, they are closer to open domains thanto closed domains, as advocated in the intro-duction.
Questions about tourism, as revealedby our corpora studies, include false presuppo-sitions (FP), misunderstandings (MIS), conceptrelaxations (RR), intensional responses (IR).For the moment, we investigate only questionsof type boolean and questions about entitiesand we use the inference schemas: FP, MIS,RR and IR cited above.
We think it is impor-tant to make explicit in the response the typesof knowledge used in the inferences and to showhow they are organized and lexicalized.
As de-scribed in example 1 of section 2.3, the expla-nation given in italic in the response :anotheraccommodation type: hotel, pension, indicatesthat a relaxation based on the ontological typeof the concept chalet was carried out.4 Evaluation of WEBCOOPIt is clear that an evaluation in the TRECstyle is not relevant for our approach.
We havetwo forms of evaluations: (1) the evaluation ofthe portability of the system w.r.t.
the formsof knowledge involved and the applicability ofthe inference schemas and (2) the evaluation of4Indirect responses, for example: is your campingclose to the highway?, can be indirectly, but coopera-tively responded: yes, but that highway is quiet at night.the linguistic and cognitive adequacy of the re-sponses produced by the system.4.1 Evaluating System PortabilityPorting WEBCOOP to other large-public ap-plications, given the complexity of the system,is quite challenging.4.1.1 The lexicon and the OntologyFirst, we claim that the syntax of questions andthe template-based approach used for producingresponses are relatively stable.
At the languagelevel, the main task is to define an appropriatelexicon, in relation with the domain ontology.This task may be somewhat facilitated by theexistence of shared resources, however these arequite rare for French.
In general, we observethat some resources are common to all applica-tions (e.g.
communication or possession verbs),or prepositions, while others are totally specific,with dedicated senses and usages.
Creating anapplication lexicon is costly, in particular whenNL generation is involved.
To give an evaluationof the complexity, an application like tourism re-quires about 150 verbs and about 1800 nouns.Among verbs, 100 are generic verbs, with stan-dard senses.
Describing verbs is complex, buttheir number is quite modest.
Most nouns arenot predicative, therefore, their lexicon can bepartly deduced from the domain ontology.There are many domain ontologies on theweb.
Although constructed by domain experts,they turn out not to be necessarily adequate forproviding responses to a large public of non-specialists.
The main difficulties are to cus-tomize these ontologies and to manage their co-herence in order to produce a domain ontologywhich leads to coherent and adequate responses,as explained in section 3.2.4.1.2 The Inference SchemasIn terms of cooperative functions, our experi-ence is that most applications require the sametypes of functions, but with various degrees ofimportance.
For example, some application willbe subject to more cases of misunderstandingsthan others, depending, e.g.
on the complexityof their associated knowledge and on the typeof services expected by users.
Similarly, theinference procedures used in WEBCOOP havebeen designed with a certain level of generic-ity.
They should be portable provided that theknowledge resources of the new domain can beimplemented using WEBCOOP format, whichis quite generic.
But, besides QA annotations,which is a very useful perspective, the adequacyof inferences can only be evaluated a posteriori.In a future stage, we plan to use what Barrand Klavans (Barr and Klavans, 2001) call com-ponent performance evaluation which consistsof assessing the performance of system compo-nents and determining their impact on the over-all system performance.4.2 Evaluating Response intelligibilityFinally, since WEBCOOP produces responsesin NL, some of which on a template basis (dif-ferent from TREC which simply reproduces textextracts), it is important to evaluate the porta-bility of those templates.
We propose a methodbased on experimental psychology, that aims atevaluating the cooperative responses generatedin the know-how component of WEBCOOP.Our methodology involves the following steps:- Evaluating templates within a single do-main (tourism in our case).
This goal includestwo main parts :1. intra-templates which aims at evaluat-ing:- response intelligibility in terms of (1)the adequacy of the response w.r.t the userintent, and of (2) the justifications and ex-planations mechanisms provided that led tothe answer.- the readability of the responses in termsof (3) the linguistic surface generation ofboth the underspecified terms and the dif-ferent lexicalization choices made withineach templates, and in terms of (4) the ad-equacy of our hyperlinks generation heuris-tics.2.
inter-templates which aims at evaluat-ing:- the display order relevance.
If we goback to the example 1 in section 2.3, the re-sponses are displayed following the inversereading order of the question constraintsi.e.
chalet is the last concept to be relaxedin the question.
This evaluation can alsobe useful for identifying other kinds of cor-relation between the answers display andthe constraints order in the question.- the general fluency in terms of syntaxi-cal regularities of the responses generatedby each template.- the visual aspect of the responses : enu-merations vs. paragraphs.- Evaluating templates portability to otherlarge public domains like health and education.We have developed the experimental proto-cols associated to the relevance of explanation(point 2 cited above) and to the display orderrelevance.
Interpretation results are ongoing.5 Conclusion and PerspectivesWe reported in this paper an experiment for de-signing a logic based QA system, WEBCOOP,that integrates knowledge representation andadvanced reasoning procedures to generate co-operative responses to natural language querieson the web.
We claim that restricted domainsare more suitable than open domains to con-duct research in advanced techniques on QAbecause those systems require deeper modes oflanguage understanding, more elaborated rea-soning schemas paired with a variety of knowl-edge forms and sources.WEBCOOP is applied to the tourism do-main, it is a challenging and rewarding expe-rience because the tourism domain is half waybetween open domain applications and closeddomains, allowing us to better perceive thesetwo perspectives.Our corpus based approach allows to iden-tify the type of knowledge associated with eachcooperative function.
The annotation of cor-pora constitutes, in our sense, a good evalua-tion method for the study of the portability ofWEBOOP to other restricted domains.Finally, since an evaluation in TREC style isnot relevant for our approach, we have: (1) theevaluation of the portability of the system w.r.t.the forms of knowledge involved and the appli-cability of inference schemas and (2) the eval-uation of the linguistic and cognitive adequacyof the responses produced by the system.
Weare now evaluating the portability of generationtemplates to the health and education domainsand the accuracy of cooperative functions.ReferencesV.
Barr and J. Klavans.
2001.
Verification andvalidation of language processing systems: Isit evaluation?
In ACL 2001 Workshop onEvaluation Methodologies for Language andDialogue Systems, July, pages 34 ?
40.F.
Benamara and P. Saint Dizier.
2004a.
Ad-vanced relaxation for cooperative questionanswering.
New Directions in Question An-swering, Chapter 21, Mark T. Maybury, edi-tor, AAAI/MIT Press.
To appear.F.
Benamara and P. Saint Dizier.
2004b.Knowledge extraction from the web: an ex-periment and an analysis of its portability.Vivek, 15(1):3?15.F.
Benamara.
2004.
Generating intensional an-swers in intelligent question answering.
InProceeding of INLG 04, the InternationalConference on Natural Language Generation,Brighton, UK.R.
Dale, J. Oberlander, M. Milosavljevic, andA.
Knott.
1998.
Integrating natural lan-guage generation and hypertext to producedynamic documents.
Interacting with Com-puters, 11(2):109?135.A.
Doan, J. Madhavan, P. Domingos, andA.
Halevy.
2002.
Learning to map betweenontologies on the semantic web.
In Pro-ceedings of the 11th international conferenceon World Wide Web, pages 662?673.
ACMPress.A.
Fernandez, P. Saint-Dizier, G. Vazquez,M.
Kamel, and F. Benamara.
2002.
Thevolem project : a framework for the construc-tion of advanced multilingual lexicons.
InLanguage Technology.
Springer Verlag, Lec-ture Notes.T.
Gaasterland, P. Godfrey, and J. Minker.1994.
An Overview of Cooperative Answer-ing.
In Papers in Non-standard Queries andNon-standard Answers, in series Studies inLogic and Computation.
Oxford, ClarendonPress.H.
Grice.
1975.
Logic and Conversation.
InCole and Morgan editors, Academic Press.S.
Harabagiu and S. Maiorano.
1999.
FindingAnswers in Large Collections of Texts: Para-graph Indexing + Abductive Inference.
InAAAI Fall Symposium on Question Answer-ing Systems, November, pages 63?71.D.
Moldovan, C. Clark, S. Harabagiu, andS.
Maiorano.
2003.
Cogex: A logic prover forquestion answering.
In Language Technology,pages 87?93.
Proceedings of HLT-NAACL,Edmonton.E.
Reiter.
1995.
Cogex: A logic prover for ques-tion answering.
In NLG versus Templates,pages 87?93.
In Proceedings of 7th EuropeanWorkshop on Natural Language Generation,Leiden, The Netherlands.E.
M. Voorhees.
2003.
Cogex: A logic proverfor question answering.
In Overview of theTREC 2002 Question Answering Track.
Pro-ceedings of TREC-11, NIST.
