Handling Figures in Document SummarizationRobert P. FutrelleBiological Knowledge LaboratoryCollege of Computer & Information Science WVH202Northeastern UniversityBoston, MA 02115, USAfutrelle@ccs.neu.eduAbstractSome document genres contain a large number offigures.
This position paper outlines approaches todiagram summarization that can augment the manywell-developed techniques of text summarization.We discuss figures as surrogates for entire docu-ments, thumbnails, extraction, the relations betweentext and figures as well as how automation might beachieved.
The focus is on diagrams (line drawings)because they allow parsing techniques to be used, incontrast to the difficulties of general image under-standing.
We describe the advances in raster imagevectorization and parsing needed to produce cor-pora for diagram summarization.1 IntroductionMany documents contain figures, both images andline drawings (diagrams).
The Biology literature,the focus of our group's work, is replete with fig-ures.
A surprising 50% of the typical Biology pa-per is figure-related (see Appendix A).
A millionor so Biology papers are published each year, mostwith abstracts.
But given their high figural con-tent, work on diagram summarization could alsobe quite useful.
This is a position paper that ex-plores this topic, outlining a variety of approachesto the construction of automated diagram summa-rization systems.
System building and use awaitsthe creation of the requisite corpora, as explainedin the next section.
This paper builds on our ear-lier, more lengthy work, extending it in variousways (Futrelle, 1999).2 The Current State of the DiagramsFieldAutomated text summarization has at its disposal,electronic documents that allow the use of all thetechniques of computational linguistics.
Dia-grams in documents are in a more primitive state.The overwhelming majority of diagrams avail-able in the electronic forms of the research litera-ture today are in raster format.
What is neededare diagrams in vector format in which an objectsuch as a line is represented not by pixels, but asa line object defined by its endpoints and width.We found only 52 pages containing vector-baseddiagrams in a collection of 20,000 recent Biologypapers in PDF format (Futrelle, Shao, Cieslik, &Grimes, 2003).
Vectorization converts raster dia-grams to vector format, much as OCR convertsrasters to characters.
But the resulting vectorizeddiagram is an unordered collection of objects in atwo dimensional space.
An additional analysisstep of parsing is required.
Our system for pars-ing diagrams (Futrelle &  Nikolakis, 1995) pro-duces descriptions for a data graph, for example,by discovering structures such as scale lines andsets of data points.There appear to be no non-proprietary vectori-zation systems that are up to the task of vectoriz-ing the diagrams from the scientific literature, soour group is currently focused on developing asystem for this in Java.
We are also redevelopingour parsing system in Java.
Until this work iscompleted, there will be few diagrams availablefor the application of diagram summarizationtechniques.
This notwithstanding, diagram sum-marization is an interesting and ultimately impor-tant task, which is why we are discussing it here.This work is part of our laboratory's long-term ef-fort to characterize the conceptual content of theBiology literature, including the text and figuralcontent.3 Figures as Surrogate DocumentsSome time ago, when Lesk asked chemists whattwo parts of Chemistry papers would be most in-formative, they said they would like to know thenames of the authors and to see the figures (Mi-chael Lesk, personal communication).Recently, journals are beginning to implementapproaches in this spirit.
The Journal of ProteomeResearch lists in the table of contents, in both theprint and online editions, an entry for each paperthat includes the title, authors, abstract and oneuncaptioned figure from the paper, typically incolor.
Science and Nature also include some fig-ures in their contents pages.
The new open-accessjournal, PLoS Biology, offers five ?Views?
of apaper: HTML, Tables, Figures, Print PDF andScreen PDF.
The Figures View is an HTML slideshow of the figures, each including a large versionof the figure, the caption and the article citation.Figure Views represent a new and importanttype of summary of entire articles, allowing therapid browsing that such visual displays provide.One can imagine that authors will adapt to this newmode, packing the major content of their papersinto the figures and captions, reducing the need toread the full text.4 Thumbnail Images are SummariesThumbnails are images that have been reduced insize and/or cropped to a smaller size.
Shrinking anentire image so that it acts as a summary is an ana-log operation that has no parallel in text.
For someimages, shrinking them too much can produce anillegible result, a practice that has been roundlycriticized (item 4 in Nielsen, 2003); cropped im-ages may be useful in such cases.An example of cropping two very large imagesresulting in informative thumbnails appears in theFigure Gallery item on our site,http://diagrams.org/fig?pages/f00022.htm.The thumbnails are reproduced here in Figures 1and 2.Figure 1:A full-scale analog extract  (1% of the origi-nal) of the "classic" London Underground map.
Thisis an informative summary with respect to the mapstyle, but is only indicative of the full map.Figure 2: The same type of summary extract, exceptthat it is taken from a geographically correct view ofthe same section of the Underground as shown inFig.
1.5 Extraction for SummarizationOne of the most important techniques used in textsummarization, is extraction, typically the extrac-tion of carefully chosen whole sentences.
A simi-lar approach can be used for diagramsummarization, but some thought needs to begiven to what the sentence-like elements in dia-grams might be.
It is not difficult to give exam-ples of diagram extraction, but automating it isdifficult.Figure 3 : A typical diagram that allows summarizationby extraction.
From (Holtzendorff, 2004).
In this case,retention of one of the two bar graphs in A, one of thefour rows in B and all of C would result in a modest,indicative summary of the three-part figure.
The keys atthe bottom of part A would have to be retained.Fig.
3: from an issue of Science, is typical of dia-grams that appear in the Biology research litera-ture.
The extraction suggested in our caption picksone item from each of two sets of similar items toproduce and indicative summary.6 Diagram-Related TextIt might be argued that the most salient content ofdocuments with figures can be found in the text;that the figures are redundant, merely ?illustra-tive?.
This is often not the case.
There are queriesto documents that cannot be answered based on thecontent of the text or diagrams considered sepa-rately (Futrelle & Rumshisky, 2001).
In Biology itis not unusual for a caption to explain only themethods used to produce the data shown.The independent contribution of diagram con-tent to a paper is often signaled by cue phrases.In referring to data graphs, phrases such as?shows a significant difference?
or ?are similar?or ?a pronounced effect?
require that the readerexamine the data shown in the figure in order tounderstand what the phrases refer to.Fig.
4 (Nijhout, 2003) appeared in the popularscientific journal, American Scientist, and is morecarefully explained than most.
The Fig.
4 captiontext illustrates some limitations of captions.
Forexample, the phrase, ?The possible combina-tions?
does not spell out what combinations arepossible or are illustrated.
The reader must studythe figure to discover that there are in fact threedistinct combinations.Figure 4: The original caption for this figure, withbolding added, was: " Enzyme activity is a function ofallele identity.
In this example, the allele A encodes anenzyme that has three times greater activity than theenzyme encoded by allele a.
The possible combina-tions of A and a in an individual yield a wide range ofoverall activity levels.
"The references to A and a in Fig.
4, are deicticreferences, pointing to objects visible in the con-text, in the figure.
In ordinary conversation, sucha reference would point to some physical objectin the view of the listener.A summarization of Figure 4 should includethe entire diagram.
The last sentence of the cap-tion would be a suitable summary of the caption.The non-caption text and the text within fig-ures play important roles and need to be takeninto account in any attempt to produce a sum-mary.
Space precludes further discussion ofthese.7 Prospects for AutomationSome degree of summarization might be possiblebased entirely on the classes of the diagrams orsubdiagrams in a paper.
We have been able to lo-cate subdiagrams in vector-based diagrams inPDFs and successfully classify them using SupportVector Machines (Futrelle, Shao, Cie slik, &Grimes, 2003).But any more detailed summarization decisionswould require parsed representations of the dia-grams.
For example, our parser can discover andanalyze the two bar charts in Fig.
3, allowing asystem to extract only one of them, though withoutany knowledge as to which is the most salient.The parser can also locate keys, such as the ones inFig.
3, so they can be extracted also.
Standardstrategies from text summarization, such as ex-tracting the diagrams most often referred to, dia-grams appearing near the beginning and end of apaper, etc., are all possible.
Clearly, automation ofdiagram summarization presents a new set of chal-lenges and is no easier than text summarization.Large scale evaluation of diagram summariza-tion will offer its own challenges, cf.
text summa-rization evaluation (Radev et al, 2003).8 Related WorkAutomated text summarization has advanced sub-stantially in the last decade.
See for example, themajor collection of papers, (Mani & Maybury,1999) and the special journal issue (Radev, Hovy,& McKeown, 2002).
Reviews include (Hovy,2002; Marcu, 2003).
A recent useful monograph is(Mani, 2001).
Another recent work is (Barzilay,2003), focused on mult idocument summarizationand going beyond sentence extraction to considerphrases.Paradoxically, work on the summarization ofscientific articles is inhibited by the fact that virtu-ally all scientific articles have abstracts as a sta n-dard component.
But there are other tasks such asdeveloping user-tailored summaries (Teufel &Moens, 2002).The generation of coordinated explanations in-volving text and graphics offers insight into therelations between them (Feiner & McKeown,1990).
This task involves dealing with the internalstructure of diagrams, as do problems of imageretrieval, which can be aided by developing ontol-ogy-based descriptions of the images (Hyv?nen,Styrman, & Saarela, 2002).Diagrams form a part of a coordinated dis-course, so that diagram summarization can profitfrom the work done on text summarization thatfocuses on discourse structure.
Examples of dis-course-related approaches include (Boguraev &Neff, 2000; Marcu, 1997a, 1997b; Teufel &Moens, 2002).9 ConclusionsDocument summarization including diagramsseems both possible and desirable.
Work in thisarea is waiting on the development of a corpus ofparsed object-based diagrams.
The vectorizationand parsing systems required are under develop-ment.10 AcknowledgementsThis material is based upon work supported bythe National Science Foundation under GrantsNo.
DBI-0211047 and IIS-9978004 and theNortheastern University Institute for ComplexScientific Software,http://www.icss.neu.edu/.ReferencesBarzilay, R. (2003).
Information Fusion for Mut-lidocument Summarization: Paraphrasing andGeneration.
Unpublished PhD, Columbia Uni-versity.Boguraev, B. K., & Neff, M. S. (2000).
Discoursesegmentation in aid of document summariza-tion.
In Proceedings of the 33rd Hawaii Inte r-national Conference on System Sciences, page10.Feiner, S. K., & McKeown, K. R. (1990).
Coor-dinating text and graphics in explanationgeneration.
In AAAI 90, pages 442-449.Futrelle, R. P., & Nikolakis, N. (1995).
Efficientanalysis of complex diagrams using constraint-based parsing.
In ICDAR-95  (Intl.
Conf.
onDocument Analysis & Recognition), pages782-790,   Montreal, Canada.Futrelle, R. P. (1999).
Summarization of dia-grams in documents.
In I. Mani & M.
Maybury(Eds.
), Advances in Automated Text Summari-zation, pages 403-421.
Cambridge, MA: MITPress.Futrelle, R. P., & Rumshisky, A.
(2001).
Discoursestructure of text-graphics documents.
In 1st In-ternational Symposium on Smart Graphics.Hawthorne, NY: ACM.Futrelle, R. P., Shao, M., Cieslik, C., & Grimes, A.E.
(2003).
Extraction, layout analysis and classi-fication of diagrams in PDF documents.
InICDAR 2003 (Intl.
Conf.
Document Analysis &Recognition, pages 1007-1014,  IEEE ComputerSociety, Edinburgh, Scotland.Holtzendorff, J., Hung, D., Brende, P., Reisenauer,A., Viollier, P. H., McAdams, H. H., et al(2004).
Oscillating global regulators control thegenetic circuit driving a bacterial cell cycle.
Sci-ence, 304, 983-987.Hyv?nen, E., Styrman, A., & Saarela, S. (2002).Ontology-based image retrieval.
In Towards thesemantic web and web services, Proceedings ofXML Finland 2002 Conference, pages 15-27.Mani, I.
(2001).
Automatic Summarization.
JohnBenjamins, Amsterdam.Mani, I., & Maybury, M. T.
(Eds.).
(1999).
Ad-vances in Automatic Text Summarization.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Marcu, D. (1997a).
From discourse structures totext summaries.
In I. Mani & M.
Maybury(Eds.
), Workshop on Intelligent Scalable TextSummarization, pages 82-88, ACL, Madrid.Marcu, D. (1997b).
The Rhetorical Parsing, Sum-marization, and Generation of Natural Lan-guage Texts.
Unpublished Ph.D., U. Toronto,Toronto.Marcu, D. (2003).
Automatic abstracting.
Encyclo-pedia of Library and Information Science, pages245-256.Nielsen, J.
(2003).
Jakob Nielsen ?s Alertbox, De-cember 22, 2003: Top Ten Web Design Mistakesof 2003.
Retrieved May 15, 2004, fromhttp://www.useit.com/alertbox/20031222.htmlNijhout, H. F. (2003).
The importance of context ingenetics.
American Scientist, 91(5): 416-423.Radev, D. R., Hovy, E., & McKeown, K. (2002).Introduction to the special issue on summariza-tion.
Computational Linguistics, 28(4): 399-408Radev, D. R., Lam, W., Celebi, A., Teufel, S.,Blitzer, J., Liu, D., et al (2003).
Evaluationchallenges in large-scale multi-document sum-marization.
In ACL-2003, pages 375-382.Teufel, S., & Moens, M. (2002).
Summarizingscientific articles: Experiments with relevanceand rhetorical status.
Computational Linguis-tics, 28(4): 409-445.Appendix A: 50% of the Content of BiologyPapers is Figure -RelatedWe arrived at the 50% figure by sampling a vari-ety of recent papers in journals including Science,Nature, PNAS (USA).
The column-inches occu-pied by figures in the hardcopy or equivalentPDF versions of the papers were measured andcompared to the total column-inches, omitting thetitle, abstract and references.
Word counts of thecaptions and direct running text reference sen-tences were estimated, e.g., ?Fig.
3 shows ...?.Then estimates were made of the sentences thatindirectly discussed the figures, often the sen-tences immediately following direct referencesentences and containing  anaphoric and definitenoun phrase references to the figures, often indeictic form.
The total of the figure and figurereference content consistently amounted to about50% of the papers sampled.
