Category competition drives contrast maintenance within an exemplar-basedproduction/perception loop.Andrew WEDELDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of ArizonaTucson, AZ, 85721wedel@u.arizona.eduAbstractThe evolution of competing lexical categoriesis simulated within a model in which lexicaloutputs are organized as sequences ofarticulatory gestures.
When exemplar-basedcategories compete for assignment and storageof incoming exemplars in a production/storageloop,  contrast  between categoriesspontaneously emerges and remains stable,driven by the differences in storageconsistency between more contrastive and lesscontrastive variants.
Further, when lexicaloutputs are biased toward use of previouslyproduced gestures, the set of exemplars in thelexicon evolve to be derived from a small setof contrastive units used in combination,despite the absence of direct selection forcontrast at the sub-lexical level.1 IntroductionThe probability of accurate informationtransmission is dependent on the perceptibility ofdifference between differently signifying forms,that is, contrast.
The possible mechanisms bywhich contrast arises and is preserved in lexicalforms, on the other hand, have been less clear.Many grammatical theories of the last centuryassume that the language faculty is constituted todirectly optimize contrast in some way, e.g.,(Martinet 1955), (Flemming 1995), and muchcomputational work also operates within theassumption that contrast between units of form ismaintained through some kind of direct monitoringand manipulation of contrast, e.g., (Lindblom1986), (de Boer 2000).
In all of these approaches,contrast is a property of forms.
Here, I will presentevidence within an exemplar model of lexicalproduction and perception (Goldinger 2000),(Pierrehumbert 2001) that the fact of a distinctionbetween categories themselves, rather than theforms that instantiate them, can be indirectlyresponsible for driving contrast preservationthrough the statistics of assignment of forms tocategories.Within exemplar models of linguistic categorystructure, the act of categorizing a percept does notstrip that percept of all non-contrastive detail, e.g.,(Johnson 1997), (Pierrehumbert 2001).
When wetake into account evidence that production of anoutput of a lexical category may be based ondetails of previously perceived instances of thatcategory (Goldinger 2000), we see that aproduction-perception feedback loop is closed, inwhich details in what is perceived can besubsequently reflected in the details of what isproduced (Pierrehumbert 2001), (Oudeyer 2002).Whenever a system exhibits variation amongelements, selection of variants over some criterion,and subsequent reproduction of selected elements,the system will evolve through natural selection onthe basis of that criterion.
Hence, any factorswithin the production-perception loop that bias thedistribution of forms that are produced, thedistribution of forms that are perceived, or the waythat percepts are categorized, will result inevolution of category contents.
Within the modelpresented here, lexical categories are populated byexemplars that have been previously categorized ascorrespondents of that category, and the output of agiven category follows a distribution defined inpart by the range of exemplars of that category,e.g., (Goldinger 2000), (Pierrehumbert 2001,2002).
Outputs are recognized as correspondents ofa given category by comparison to exemplarsalready stored within that category (Pierrehumbert2001); see also (Luce and Pisoni, 1998).
Becauseoutputs of a category can be re-stored as newexemplars within that category within acommunity of speakers, any asymmetries in eitherthe form of outputs, or the likelihood ofrecognition and storage of those outputs, will resultin a shift in the contents of that category over time(Pierrehumbert 2001), (Oudeyer 2002), and(Wedel 2004).Here, I show simulation results suggesting thatcontrast between distinct form-meaning pairingscan arise indirectly from asymmetries in theBarcelona, July 2004Association for Computations LinguisticsACL Special Interest Group on Computational Phonology (SIGPHON)Proceedings of the Workshop of theconsistency of categorization of more contrastive,versus less contrastive outputs1.
Because morecontrastive outputs make up a relatively greaterproportion of the regularly stored exemplars in agiven category than less contrastive outputs, theyshould have a proportionally greater influence onthe evolution of that category.
This asymmetry inthe statistics of recognition and storage results inbiased evolution of categories towards greatercontrast.1.1 Contrast  preservat ion  throughcategorization in morphology.Within linguistics, the notion that contrastmaintenance is an indirect effect of contrast?seffect on a hearer/acquirer?s categorizationbehavior has been suggested by Pierrehumbert(2002), and by Gregory Guy (1996) on the basis ofcorpus data on preservation of morphologicalcontrasts.
Guy notes that data from productioncorpora will always underestimate the true extentof speakers?
failure to produce a given meaningfulcontrast.
For example, if a transcriber perceives theutterance ?I cook the chicken?, in the absence ofadditional information s/he is likely to simplytranscribe it as such, even if the speaker actuallyintended the sentence to be in past tense, but elidedthe [-t] past tense marker.
Guy notes that languageacquirers are no different from transcribers, suchthat the perception data from which a languagelearner develops a grammar will be biased towardsthe more contrastive utterances in the productiondata set.
This steady selection of more contrastiveforms in the categorized utterance set upon whichacquisition is based should result in a tendency forgrammatical processes to emerge that appear tofunction to preserve contrast, when they in factonly act to reproduce the patterns in the data setthat the acquirer perceives.1.2 Contrast maintenance as a form of nichespecialization.This mechanism for category separation throughcompetition for category members is formallyparallel to a proposed mechanism of sympatricspeciation first proposed by Darwin (1859, chap.4) and further developed in recent theoreticalresearch on the effects of resource competition onthe distribution of phenotypes in a population(Kondrashov and Kondrashov 1999), (Dieckmannand Doebeli 1999 and references therein).
In thismodel of sympatric speciation (speciation in theabsence of geographical separation), phenotypic1The simulations presented here assume that theresult of lexical access is a unique output-categorymatch, e.g., (Luce and Pisoni 1998).divisions within a population and subsequentspeciation can be driven by inequalities in thedegree of competition experienced by individualslying at different points on a distribution ofphenotypes relating to resource exploitation.Individuals exhibiting intermediate phenotypescompete against a larger fraction of the population,while more extreme phenotypes have fewercompetitors, and therefore greater individualaccess to resources.
The higher fitness ofindividuals lying at the extremes of a phenotypicdistribution can eventually produce a split in thepopulation along this phenotypic dimension,setting the stage for subsequent speciation.The same statistical influence of resourcecompetition on fitness has also been proposed todrive ?niche specialization?
among separate speciesoccupying overlapping niches (Schoener 1974),(Dieckmann and Doebeli 1999).
For example, iftwo species that utilize an overlapping set ofresources jointly colonize a new environment, theytend to evolve to specialize on different portions ofthe resource distribution.
This is proposed to occurbecause phenotypic variants of each species thathappen to focus on an extreme of the resourcedistribution experience less competition than thosewho prefer the center of the distribution.Within the exemplar based model proposed herefor contrast maintenance, lexical categories areformally parallel to competing species undergoingselection for niche specialization.
A category willbe less often matched with a percept that is alsoclose to another category than a percept that isclose to no other category.
Further, because thematching behavior of a category is determined byits contents, a category will evolve to be morespecific for those percepts most often identified asmembers of that category.
In this way, categorieswill tend to evolve to split the available perceptspace evenly, minimizing regions of overlap (see(Pierrehumbert 2002) for additional discussion ofoverlap minimization in evolving exemplar-basedcategories).2 Modeling contrast maintenance throughcategory competition.To provide a simple illustration of thephenomenon of category boundary maintenancethrough patterns of category assignment, I showbelow results of a simple simulation of twointeracting categories.
Each category contains tennumerical ?exemplars?
that can vary in valuewithin a range from zero to ten.
In each round,each category produces all of its exemplars one byone.
Noise is introduced in production by adding toeach output a random value between +/-0.4;increasing the amount of noise in outputs increasesthe distribution of exemplars within a category,and increases the rate of change in categorycontents over simulation cycles.Produced exemplars are subsequently re-storedin one of the two categories, based on how closethe produced exemplar is to the average of eachcategory.
For exemplars lying between theaverages of the two categories, the likelihood ofassignment to a given category is proportional tothe relative distance to that category?s average.
Forexample, if the average exemplar values in the twocategories are 5 and 7 respectively, a producedexemplar with the value 3 will be re-stored in thefirst category, while an exemplar with the value 6has an equal chance of being stored in eithercategory.
In this way, the two categories can besaid to compete for produced exemplars on thebasis of their own contents.
Re-storage isaccompanied by random deletion of a previouslystored exemplar, such that the number ofexemplars in each category remains constant.A simulation begins with each category pre-seeded with 10 exemplars, all with the value 5.Figure 1A below shows the evolution of the valueaverages of the two categories over 2000 rounds ofproduction and storage.
Note that the averagesdiverge immediately from their originally sharedvalue of 5, and over the run of the simulation,occasionally approach one another, but nevercross.Figure 1AAs a control, Figure 1B shows the results of asimilar simulation in which categories do notcompete for exemplars, but where exemplars arealways re-stored in their category of origin.
In thiscase, the category averages approach and cross oneanother multiple times, as we expect, given thattheir pathways through the simulation areindependent.Figure 1B.This difference is robust: when a simulation likethat shown in Figure 1A was run 100,000 rounds,there were no crossovers of category averages,while 100,000 rounds of a simulation like thatshown in Figure 1B produced 491 crossovers.
Thefailure of the averages to cross in simulations inwhich categories compete for exemplars is due tothe fact that exemplars located between thecategory averages are less often stored in any givencategory than exemplars lying to one side.
Becausethe average value of categories depend on what hasbeen previously stored, categories tend to shifttheir averages away from each other over time, ineffect minimizing competition between them.These simulations can be instructively comparedto Janet Pierrehumbert?s simulations of mergerbetween exemplar-based phonetic categories undera leniting bias in a similar production/storage loop(2001, 2002).
In Pierrehumbert?s simulations, thenumber of outputs of a category in a given round isproportional to the number of exemplars storedthere, such that a category that is more successfulin competing for outputs grows more highlypopulated at the expense of another that is lesssuccessful, with the result that it may eventuallysubsume the less successful category, which thenceases to exist.
If we assume that the notion ofcontrast only has functional substance in thecontext of an actual form-meaning pairing, thenthis is reasonable, because sub-morphemiccategories do not have independent meaning oftheir own, but only contribute to marking ameaning difference in larger sound sequences.
Incontrast, in the simulations detailed above, the twocategories always produce the same number ofoutputs in every round, regardless of theirhistorical competitive success.
This behaviorseems reasonable for lexical categories, which canbe anchored in physical and social experienceoutside the linguistic system.
As such, distinctionsin meanings may remain intact, even ifEvolution under Inter-categoryCompetition05101 401 801 1201 1601 2001RoundsCategoryAverageEvolution with No Inter-categoryCompetition05101 401 801 1201 1601 2001RoundsCategoryAveragecorresponding forms merge.
For example, if thelexical form for the category ?sand?
were to mergewith that for ?hand?, we presumably would notsuddenly find ourselves significantly lessinterested in talking about ?sand?
than we werebefore.
The same cannot be said for the merger ofsub-morphemic categories, as they have noindependent correspondent in meaning.3 The interaction of contrast maintenanceand motor consolidation.Given the hypothesis that contrast maintenanceis driven through category competition betweenform-meaning pairings, we then need an accountfor the observation that morphemes themselves donot appear to be the minimal unit of contrast inphonological systems.
Rather, we find thatphonological systems can be described in terms ofsub-morphemic contrastive features and featuralgroupings.
In the simulations presented in thissection, I explore the possibility that contrastive,sub-morphemic units can arise indirectly throughcategory competition for the larger lexical forms ofwhich they are a part.The simulation architecture employed hereconsists of a single speaker/hearer pair, eachequipped with small lexicons of categoriespopulated with stored exemplars.
In a given round,one of the pair utters the contents of its lexicon tothe other, which attempts to categorize and storeeach utterance by comparing it to the exemplarsstored in its lexicon.
The sophistication of thesimulation architecture is purposely kept very lowto enable us to better assess the hypothesis that thesimulation results are due to patterns ofinformation flow in the system, rather thanparticular details of implementation.The simulation architecture used here is basedon the proposal that the articulatory gesture is abasic unit of phonological organization (Browmanand Goldstein 1990), (see also Oudeyer 2002).Further, these simulations model the finding thatpracticed gestural targets serve as attractors inmotor planning and execution, e.g., (Saltzman andMunhall 1989), (Shadmehr and Bashers-Krug1997), and (Bybee 2001).
Stated another way,because motor behavior is reinforced by repetition,the more highly practiced a given movementpattern, the more likely a future movement willfollow that pattern.
The neural mechanism for theconsolidation of motor patterns is not under studyin the simulations below, and so for computationalsimplicity it is simply stipulated.
Simulations thatmodel neural mechanisms for the development andaction of attractors in developing systems can befound in e.g., (Guenther and Gjaja 1996) and(Oudeyer 2002).At the start of a simulation, each speaker/heareris provided with a starting lexicon of comprising anumber of categories, each containing 9 exemplars.Exemplars are structured as an ordered sequence ofgestural targets.
Two articulators are provided inthe simulation, labeled X and Y, where X can varyin a range from 0.00 ?
0.30, and Y from 0.00 ?0.10.
Each exemplar consists of four ordered pairs(?segments?)
of articulator targets, as for example:[X: 0.03] [Y: 0.10]; [X: 0.21] [Y: 0.03];[X: 0.12] [Y: 0.06]; [X: 0.00] [Y: 0.08].A tight linkage between acoustic/perceptual andarticulatory maps is assumed (e.g., (Oudeyer 2002)and references therein), and because structurepotentially emerging from the interactions betweenperceptual and articulatory mappings is not at issuehere, recorded exemplars and outputs ofproduction are both encoded in the same units forcomputational simplicity.Unless otherwise specified, at the beginning ofeach simulation the lexicons of each speaker/hearerare seeded with fully randomized exemplars.
In agiven round, one of the pair produces threerandomly chosen exemplars from each of itslexical categories for the other, which categorizesand stores the produced outputs by comparison tothe stored contents of its own lexical categories.Production proceeds by selecting a singlerandom exemplar from a category, and thenassembling a corresponding output.
To simulatethe warping of motor targets toward more highlypracticed outputs, each speaker/hearer retains arecord of what articulatory targets have beenproduced over the previous six rounds.
An outputtarget value for each target value recorded in thechosen exemplar is established by comparing thereference exemplar target value to every targetvalue recently produced by that articulator.Recently produced target values are activated inGaussian proportion to their proximity to thereference exemplar target value2.The probabilitythat a particular target value will be chosen is2The formula used to calculate the activation of astored target value through its frequency of previous useand proximity to the corresponding exemplar value is:A = n(2.141(-25(a-b))2)where n is the number of times that the target valueunder consideration has been produced in the previoussix rounds, a is the target value, and b is the referencetarget value in the exemplar under current production.directly proportional to its activation with respectto the corresponding position in the exemplarunder production.For example, if the particular target valuerecorded in the exemplar chosen as the basis forproduction has been produced often by the currentspeaker, it is likely to be faithfully reproduced inthe output.
On the other hand, if it has rarely beenproduced, but a nearby target value has beenproduced more often, the actual output target willlikely match the more commonly produced, nearbytarget.
The result is a steady tendency toconsolidate motor patterns over time.Finally, each production target is produced withGaussian noise: in the simulations shown here, thevariance in the noise distribution was such thateach intended target had a 10% chance of beingmodified +/-.01 on the target scale.
Up to a point,increases in the breadth and amplitude of the noisedistribution increase the rate at which the systemexplores new states; beyond this point, the systembegins to lose stability as production eventsbecome increasingly random.Category assignment on the part of the hearerproceeds by comparing the speaker output to allexemplars stored in the hearer?s lexicon.
Whether ahearer exemplar will be counted as matching thespeaker?s output is assessed by comparing eachoutput target value to the corresponding targetvalue in the stored exemplar, where the probabilityof target matching follows a normal distributionwith a match probability of 1 at equal target valuesand a standard deviation of 0.1 on the scale ofpossible target values.After all matches have been determined withinthe hearer?s lexicon, the output is assigned to andstored in a single lexical category, where theprobability of category assignment is proportionalto the square of the number of matching exemplarsin each category3.
For example, if an output issuccessfully matched to 2 exemplars in lexicalcategory A, and 1 exemplar in B, it is four times aslikely to be assigned to A as B.
This matching andassignment procedure is intended to approximateprobabilistic activation and competition betweenlexical entries in lexical access (Luce and Pisoni,1998).
If an output lies an equivalent distancebetween two categories (i.e., it is matched to equalnumbers of exemplars in the two categories), it has3Varying the scaling between relative number ofmatches and probability of category assignment within areasonable range does not change the behavior of thesimulation.
As the exponent is raised, variation incategory assignment decreases, resulting in slowerevolution of the system.
As the exponent is lowered onthe other hand, category assignment becomes lessdependent on the relative goodness of match.an equal chance of assignment to each category.Only if a speaker output is matched to no exemplarin the hearer?s lexicon will it fail to be assigned toany category.
When an output is assigned to acategory and stored there as a new exemplar, arandomly chosen exemplar from a previous roundis discarded.3.1 Evolution of lexical categories in theabsence of inter-category competition.The tendency to warp output target valuestoward those values that have been producedbefore results in a steady reversion to mean targetvalues over the course of the simulation,counteracting the dispersive effects of noise inproduction (Wedel 2004)4.
This can be seen in asimulation in which category competition in lexicalaccess is disabled by providing the speaker/hearerswith an additional channel of communication, suchthat each speaker output is stored directly in thecorresponding hearer category without regard tosimilarity any other category?s contents.
Figure 2Ashows the distribution of values for the X targetover four lexical categories from one of thespeaker/hearers at the beginning of such asimulation, and 2B the distribution of X targetvalues over these lexical categories after 1000rounds.While the target values for both articulators aredistributed across their possible ranges at thebeginning of the simulation, steady feedbackpressure for output target values to become morealike results in the evolution of a system with onlyone possible target value for each articulator, andas a result, all lexical categories evolve to containthe same set of exemplars.
Figure 2C shows theconsensus target values for each of the four lexicalcategories at round 1000.
At 1000 rounds, Y valueshave settled around a single value as well (notshown).4Reversion to the mean in production can also becreated by selecting multiple exemplars from a categoryand averaging them in production (e.g., Pierrehumbert(2001)).
The category-sharpening effect of motorconsolidation renders this unnecessary in this model.Figure 2A.
X values at Round 0Figure 2B.
X values at Round 1000Figure 2C.
Consensus target values:Round 1000.Category X/Y X/Y X/Y X/YA .14/.02 .14/.02 .14/.02 .14/.02B .15/.02 .14/.02 .14/.02 .14/.02C .14/.02 .14/.02 .14/.03 .13/.02D .14/.03 .14/.02 .14/.02 .14/.023.2 Inter-category competition supportsmaintenance of contrast.When category competition is reintroduced,however, something quite different happens:although target values still show significantconsolidation over the course of the simulation,sufficient distinctions remain to preserve contrastbetween lexical categories.
Figure 3A shows therange of X target values, and 3B the lexicon atround 1000 of a simulation that incorporatescategory competition..Figure 3A.
X values at Round 1000.Figure 3B.
Consensus target values: Round1000.Category X/Y X/Y X/Y X/YA .20/.06 .20/.05 .20/.05 .03/.06B .03/.06 .20/.06 .20/.06 .20/.06C .03/.05 .03/.06 .20/.06 .21/.06D .20/.06 .20/.06 .20/.06 .20/.06In Figure 3B, equivalent ?segments?
are shadedequivalently.
Each lexical category is distinct fromevery other.
In runs with larger numbers of lexicalcategories, two Y target values often develop aswell, assorting with two or more X target values toprovide sufficient numbers of contrastive units (notshown).Note that this effect is not dependent on lesscontrastive variants being less often stored.
In thenumerical simulations described above in section2, every output was stored in a category.
In thesimulations described in this section, every variantform was stored in some category, provided itcould be matched to at least one exemplar.
Avariant lying between two categories has then infact a greater chance of being matched and storedthan a variant that lies an equivalent distance awayfrom a single category, even though the latter isfunctionally more contrastive.
This generousassignment and storage procedure was chosen tomake it less likely that the development andmaintenance of contrast within the simulationscould be due to differential rates of storage, asopposed to differential consistency of storage.Previous work (Wedel 2004) showed that insimilar simulations in which outputs matchingmultiple categories were at a disadvantage instorage efficiency relative to those matching justone category, development and maintenance ofcontrast was yet more robust than in thesimulations shown here.
Phenomena such as theneighborhood density effect in lexical accessindicate that outputs activating multiple lexicalcategories may in fact be at a disadvantage in01020300 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3X Target ValuesTokens01020304050600 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3X Target ValuesTokens01020304050600 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3X Target ValuesTokensrecognition (reviewed in (Luce and Pisoni 1998)).However, the simulation results presented heresuggest that in addition to the effect of anydisadvantage in storage of poorly contrastiveforms, lower storage consistency of lesscontrastive forms alone can contribute to contrastmaintenance between lexical categories.3.3 Local lexical contrasts can support globalsub-morphemic contrasts.Because similar target values are bound togetherin a single unit of motor production, a given targetvalue that is required to maintain contrast betweentwo categories can support the persistence of thattarget value elsewhere, even if it would otherwisetend to merge with another nearby target value.
Toillustrate this phenomenon, Figures 4A and Bcompare the results of simulations beginning fromtwo distinct, non-random starting points.
Eachsimulation uses eight lexical categories, pre-seededwith exemplars consisting of three X target values([0.30], [0.15], and [0.05]), and one Y value [0.00].The X [0.05] value (found only in categories A, B,and C) is in the minority relative to the [0.15]target value, and therefore will be under pressurefrom motor consolidation to merge with it.In the starting lexicon shown in Figure 4A, theminority X value [0.05] can increase and mergewith the more frequent X value [0.15] without anyloss of category contrast, because categories A, Band C differ from every other category by at leasttwo positions.
(The identical Y values across thelexicons in Figures 4A and B are irrelevant tocontrast, and so are omitted for clarity).Figure 4A.
Starting target values: Round 0.Category X X X XA .30 .15 .30 .05B .15 .15 .30 .05C .30 .30 .30 .05D .15 .30 .15 .30E .15 .30 .30 .15F .15 .30 .30 .30G .30 .30 .15 .15H .30 .30 .30 .30For example, if the X target value [0.05] incategory A were to increase to [0.15], category Awould still remain distinct from every othercategory.
When simulations are run with thisstarting lexicon, the minority [0.05] values do infact tend to quickly merge with the more frequent[0.15] value.
In ten runs of the simulation with thisstarting lexicon, merger always took place within400 rounds.Figure 4B shows a starting lexicon that is nearlyidentical, except that if the [0.05] target values ofcategories A and B increase to [0.15], thesecategories will lose contrast with categories D andE, respectively.
The [0.05] target value of categoryC can still merge with [0.15] with no loss ofcategory contrast.Figure 4B.
Starting target values: Round 0.Category X X X XA .15 .15 .30 .05B .30 .15 .30 .05C .30 .30 .30 .05D .15 .15 .30 .15E .30 .15 .30 .15F .30 .30 .30 .30G .30 .30 .15 .15H .15 .30 .30 .30In this case, in ten simulations run out to 1000rounds, the [0.05] target values of categories A andB did not ever merge with the [0.15] target value,as expected.
Interestingly, in eight of these runs,the [0.05] target value of category C also failed tomerge, even though this value was not required forcontrast in category C. Note that the startinglexicons shown in Figures 4A and B have the samerelative numbers of [0.30], [0.15] and [0.05] Xtarget values; it is only their distribution in thelexicon, and therefore their functional load that isdifferent.
The difference in evolutionary pathwaysof these lexicons illustrates that within thissimulation architecture, category competitionresting on a given target value in one part of thelexicon can stabilize that target value throughoutthe lexicon, even in regions of the lexicon whereits functional load is low.As suggested by the simulation architecture, thiseffect is dependent on the details of frequency:ceteris paribus, the ratio of contrast-bearing tonon-contrast bearing instances of a target valueinfluences the probability of merger (see (Labov1994:328ff) for similar arguments on mergers invowel systems).
In the lexicon in 4B for example,two of the three instances of the target value [0.05]functioned to maintain lexical contrast.
If thelexicon is altered such that only one of the threeinstances of that target value bears responsibilityfor contrast in a lexical category, then in asignificant number of runs, the other two instancesof the [0.05] value merge with [0.15], and in theprocess drag the contrast-bearing [0.05] value withthem, producing a pair of ?homophonic?
categoriesin the lexicon with identical contents (not shown).Within this simulation architecture, the attractorformed by identical target values in outputassembly is stronger than the statistical forcepressuring different category contents to diverge instorage, such that once homophonic categoriesform, they never split and regain contrast.
Thisappears to be largely true for actual lexicalcategories as well (but see e.g., (Yaeger-Dror1996) and (Jurafsky et al 1996) for evidence thathomophonous categories may be able to split undersome circumstances).4 DiscussionThe simulation results described here illustratethat competition between categories for formvariants in a production/storage loop indirectlysupports maintenance of contrast across form-category pairs.
As suggested by (Guy 1996) and(Pierrehumbert 2002) in linguistics, and bytheoretical work in niche specialization inevolutionary biology (Schoener 1974),(Deickmann and Doebeli 1997), this phenomenonrests on unequal partitioning of variants acrossself-reproducing categories: those variants that aresplit among multiple categories contribute less tothe evolving form of any given category than thosevariants that are more consistently stored, with theresult that the lexicon evolves to reflect the morecontrastive variants.Is this a potential mechanism contributing tocontrast maintenance at the sub-morphemic level?In support of this possibility, speakers have beenshown to produce more contrastive phonetic detailwhen producing words in high-density lexicalneighborhoods, e.g., (Goldinger and Summers1989), (Wright 1996), and (Brown 2002), whichcould be a reflection of the distribution of phoneticdetails stored in the lexical categories in highdensity neighborhoods.The structure of exemplars in the simulations insection 3 reflect the fact that lexical forms consistof multiple, temporally ordered articulatorygestures.
This structure allows, but does notdictate, the development of a combinatorial systemin which simulated gestures or gestural groupingsare reused in distinct lexical forms.
However,evidence strongly suggests that practice ofcoordinated muscular gestures results inconsolidation into larger-scale motor programs,which then serve as attractors in motor planningand execution (Shadmehr and Bashers-Krug 1997and references therein).
To simulate this effect, inoutput assembly target values and larger groupingsof target values were warped towards those valuesthat had been frequently produced in the speaker?srecent history.
The resulting tendency to minimizetarget value differences conflicts with the statisticalreward enjoyed by more contrastive forms,resulting in a optimization in which lexical entriesevolve to contain contrastive exemplars, which arethemselves composed of a small number ofcontrastive units.
Rather than being stipulatedanywhere in the system, the contrastiveness ofthese sub-lexical units evolves indirectly throughcompetition between the actual form-categorypairs that contain them.
Interestingly, as we saw inthe simulations described in conjunction withFigures 4A and B, the tight association of targetvalues as ?motor units?
allows a functionallyunnecessary contrast to persist in a given lexicalcategory, if that contrast is functionally required inanother.The potential influence of contrast on soundchange suggested by these results is supported byat least two well-described phonological patterns.First, certain exceptions to otherwise regular soundchange, sometimes referred to as 'anti-homophonyeffects', occur precisely where sound change wouldgive rise to loss of a paradigmatic contrast.
In thiscase, data from unrelated languages supports across-linguistic tendency for contrastive exemplarsto be preferred exactly where lexical categories arein greatest competition (Blevins to appear), and(Gessner & Hansson 2004).
A second finding isthat rare phonological contrasts (e.g., a three-waycontrast in vowel or consonant length, or a three-way contrast in nasalization) are not randomlydistributed in the lexicon.
Rather in languagesmaking use of rare contrasts, these contrasts arefrequently the exponents of contrastivemorphological features, and hence are onlycontrastive in contexts of lexical competition(Blevins 2004, chapter 8).
The simulationspresented here can account for both these findingsin terms of contrast-driven statistical selection ofexemplars at category extremes.
In the case ofantigemination, this selection inhibits theprogression of a sound change in limited contextswhere morphemes compete.
In the case of rarecontrasts, selection inhibits expected mergers inlimited contexts where that contrast is the soleexponent of contrast.Finally, the results of these simulationscontribute to an ongoing discussion of thedivergent relationship between lexical frequencyand morphological, versus phonological?regularity?
(see e.g., Pierrehumbert 2002).
Thewell-known tendency to morphological irregularityin high-frequency forms can be explained as aneffect of frequency on lexical access: the higherresting activation level of frequent forms shouldallow them to be identified holistically, rather thanthrough identification of their individuallycontrastive morphemes.
Similarly then, we mightexpect that highly frequent words should be able toevolve to be phonologically exceptional, forexample by resisting a sound change sweepingthrough the rest of the lexicon, or developing anotherwise unattested phone.
However, in generalwe find just the opposite: highly frequent forms doconform to sound changes initiated elsewhere, tendto be the most lenited, and tend as well to comprisemore common sounds (see Bybee (2002) andPierrehumbert (2002) for discussion).
This can beexplained within a model in which phonological,but not morphological categories tend to becoextensive with motor units, if we assume atendency toward effort minimization in production.Ceteris paribus, highly practiced motor scores aredeployed more rapidly and accurately than lesspracticed motor scores (Shadmehr and Bashers-Krug 1997 and references therein), and so we canconsider lexical evolution toward use of morecommon motor scores a form of lenition, definedwith respect to the particular language use ofspeakers in a speech community.
If a sound changesweeps through most of a lexicon altering a motorscore into another, highly frequent forms mightalso be expected to shift away from the original,now infrequent motor score to the new highlyfrequent one, not because they must, but becausetheir high frequency encourages lenition (reviewedin Bybee 2001).
Preliminary simulation resultsexploring the interaction of exemplar frequencyand warping toward frequent target values supportthis hypothesis.5 AcknowledgementsThanks to Adam Albright, Juliette Blevins,Brian Ort, Jaye Padgett and two anonymousreviewers for invaluable comments.
All errorsremain my own.ReferencesJ.
Blevins.
(to appear) Understandingantigemination.
In Papers from the InternationalSymposium on Linguistic Diversity.
ZygmuntFrajzyngier ed., John Benjamins, Amsterdam.J.
Blevins.
2004.
Evolutionary Phonology: Theemergence of sound patterns.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.C.
Browman and L. Goldstein.
1990.
Gesturalspecification using dynamically-definedarticulatory structures.
Journal of Phonetics18:299-320.R.
A.
Brown.
2002.
Effects of LexicalConfusability on the Production ofCoarticulation.
UCLA Working Papers inLinguistics, no.
101.J.
Bybee.
2001.
Phonology and language use.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.J.
Bybee.
2002.
Word frequency and context of usein the lexical diffusion of phoneticallyconditioned sound change.
Language Variationand Change 14:261-290.C.
Darwin.
1859.
On the origin of species bymeans of natural selection.
J. Jurray, London.B.
de Boer.
2001.
The origins of vowel systems.Oxford University Press, Oxford.U.
Dieckmann.
and M. Doebeli.
1999.
Theoreticalconsiderations of sympatric divergence.American Naturalist 107:256-274.E.
Flemming.
1995.
Auditory Representations inPhonology.
Ph.D. Dissertation, University ofCalifornia, Los Angeles.S.
Gessner and G. Hansson.
2004.
Anti-homophony effects in Dakelh (Carrier)ValenceMorphology.
To appear in Proceedings ofBerkeley Linguistics Society 30.S.
D. Goldinger.
2000.
The role of perceptualepisodes in lexical processing.
In Proceedings ofSWAP (Spoken Word Access Processes), A.Cutler, J. M McQueen, and R. Zondervan, ed.,pp.
155-8.
Max-Planck-Insti tute forPsycholinguistics, Nijmegen.S.
D.Goldinger and W. V. Summers.
1989.
Lexicalneighborhoods in speech production: a firstreport.
Research on Speech Perception ProgressReport, No.
15:331-342.
Bloomington.F.
H. Guenther and M. N. Gjaja.
1996.
Theperceptual magnet effect as an emergent propertyof neural map formation.
Journal of theAcoustical Society of America 100:1111-1121.G.
R. Guy.
1996.
Form and function in linguisticvariation.
In Variation,  Change andPhonological Theory.
G. Guy, C. Feagin, J.Baugh, D. Schiffrin, and M. B.
Kac., ed., pp.125-43.
Benjamins, Amsterdam.K.
Johnson.
1997.
Speech perception withoutspeaker normalization.
In K. Johnson.
and J. W.Mullennix, ed., Talker Variability in SpeechProcessing.
Academic Press, San Diego.A.
S. Kondrashov and F. A. Kondrashov, 1999.Interactions among quantitative traits in thecourse of sympatric speciation.
Nature 400:351-354.W.
Labov.
1994.
Principles of linguistic change,Vol.
1, Internal factors.
MA: Blackwell, Oxfordand Cambridge.B.
Lindblom.
1986.
Phonetic Universals in vowelsystems.
In Experimental Phonology.
J. J. Ohalaand J. J. Jaeger, ed., pp.
13-44.
Academic Press,Orlando.P.
A. Luce and D. B. Pisoni.
1998.
RecognizingSpoken Words: the neighborhood activationmodel.
Ear and Hearing 19:1-36.A.
Martinet.
1955.
Economie des changementsphon?tiques.
Francke, Berne.P-Y.
Oudeyer.
2002.
A Unified Model for theOrigins of Phonemically Coded SyllableSystems.
In Proceedings of the 24th AnnualConference of the Cognitive Science Society.
B.Bel and I. Marlien, ed., Laurence ErlbaumAssociates.J.
Pierrehumbert.
2001.
Exemplar dynamics: Wordfrequency, lenition, and contrast.
In Frequencyeffects and the emergence of linguistic structure.Bybee, J and P. Hopper, ed.
pp.
137-157.
JohnBenjamins, Amsterdam.J.
Pierrehumbert.
2002.
Word-specific phonetics.In Laboratory Phonology 7.
C. Gussenhoven andN.
Warner, ed.
Mouton, Berlin; New York.E.
Saltzman.
and K. G. Munhall.
1989.
Adynamical approach to gestural patterning inspeech production.
Ecological Psychology1:333-382.R.
Shadmeh.
and T. Bashers-Krug.
1997.Functional stages in the formation of humanlong-term motor memory.
Journal ofNeuroscience 17: 409-419.T.
W. Schoener.
1974.
Resource partitioning inecological communities.
Science 185:27-37.A.
Wedel.
2004.
Self organization and categoricalbehavior in phonology.
Ph.D. dissertation,University of California, Santa Cruz.R.
Wright.
1996.
Lexical Competition andReduction in Speech: A Preliminary Report.
InResearch On Spoken Language Processing:Progress Report No.
21 (1996-1997), IndianaUniversity.M.
Yaeger-Dror.
1996.
Phonetic evidence or theevolution of lexical classes: The case ofMontreal French vowel shift.
In Towards aSocial Science of Language, G. Guy, C. Feagin,J.
Baugh, and D. Schiffrin, ed.
pp.
263-87.Benjamins, Amsterdam.
