Dictionaries merger for text expansion in question answeringBernard JACQUEMINb jacquemin@yahoo.frAbstractThis paper presents an original way to add newdata in a reference dictionary from several otherlexical resources, without loosing any consis-tence.
This operation is carried in order to getlexical information classified by the sense of theentry.
This classification makes it possible toenrich utterances (in QA: the queries) followingthe meaning, and to reduce noise.
An analysisof the experienced problems shows the interestof this method, and insists on the points thathave to be tackled.1 IntroductionOur society is currently facing an increasingamount of textual data, that no-one can storeup or even read.
Many automatic systems aredesigned to find a requested piece of informa-tion.
All the current systems use dictionariesto identify data in texts or in queries.
QA soft-wares, which are particularly demanding aboutdata from the dictionary, have a similar modeof working: they process an utterance (generallythe query) in order to provide the largest num-ber of way to express the same meaning.
Thenthey try to find a match between the expandedutterance and a text.
For example, (Hull, 1999)expands synonymically the ?significant?
vocab-ulary of the question.
QUALC (Ferret et al,1999) adds stemming expansion prior to usinga search engine.
The Falcon system (Moldovanet al, 2000) uses some semantic relations fromWordNet when it expands the question.In this paper, I present a way to processdictionaries to make them consistent with theneeds of the application.
I first describe thelexical needs of my QA application.
I secondlyoutline the issue of the use of several incom-patible dictionaries.
Then I show the way I dis-tribute information from additional dictionariesto a reference one: synonyms, derivative formsand taxonomy.
Finally, I present the problemsand difficulties I found.2 What the QA method needsThe QA system (Jacquemin, 2003) is based ona matching procedure between query and textsegment.
As most of the other approaches, mymethodology solves the problem of the differentways to express the same idea by adding to theutterance (?enrichments?)
synonyms, derivativesor words belonging to the same taxonomy.My method entails two new features: First, ituses semantic disambiguation in order to choosethe right meaning to each word in the sentences.I notice that most of the QA systems try togive as many enrichments as possible to a wordrather than to a meaning.
The answers oftencorrespond to a sense different from the originalone.
But if each enrichment has the same senseas the original one, the noise decreases.The fact that a semantic disambiguator needsa large context to the word to be disambiguated(Weaver, 1949) provides the second feature: thequery generally comprises few words.
I decidedto process the documents to build an enrichedinformative structure (Jacquemin, 2004).
Butthis feature falls outside the scope of this paper.My semantic disambiguator (Jacquemin etal., 2002) is an evolution of a tool previously de-veloped for both French and English at XRCE(Brun, 2000; Brun et al, 2001).
The idea is touse a dictionary as a tagged corpus to extractsemantic disambiguation rules.
The contextualdata (syntactic, lexico-syntactic and semantico-syntactic) for a given sense of a word are seen asdifferential indications.
So when the schema isfound in the context of this word in a sentence,the corresponding sense is assigned.In figure 1, we can see how a disambiguationrule is extracted from an informative field ofDubois?
French dictionary (Dubois and Dubois-Charlier, 1997).
From the instance field of theentry remporter in its second sense gagner (towin), the XIP parser (A?
?t-Mokhtar et al, 2002)extracts a lexico-syntactic schema: VARG[DIR]Example from Dubois?
dictionary (entry: rem-porter):On remporte la victoire sur ses adversaires(sense nb 2 : gagner)We win a victory over our adversaries.Dependency containing remporter :VARG[DIR](remporter,victoire)Corresponding disambiguation rule:remporter: VARG[DIR](remporter,victoire)==> sense gagnerFigure 1: Extraction of a semantic disambigua-tion rule.means that the argument victoire is a direct ob-ject of the argument remporter.
The rule builtfrom this dependency indicates that the senseof the word remporter, in a context where vic-toire (victory) is the direct object, is the secondsense gagner (to win).
Two other types of rulesexists: the first type puts lexical rules into gen-eral use, replacing lexical arguments by corre-sponding semantic classes.
The other one usessyntactic schemas stipulated by the dictionary(for instance: transitive, reflexive, etc.
).The dictionary needs of both QA systemand semantic disambiguator are of two natures.First, the dictionary is required to share outdata following sense and not following lemma:The data are differential indications.
Second,the dictionary is required to contain contextualinformation as much as possible: examples orcollocations (lexical rules), semantic classes orapplication domains (generalized rules), subcat-egorisation.
.
.
The Dubois?
dictionary yields tothese demands, and moreover it contains somedata that could be helpful to enrich an utter-ance: synonyms, instructions for derivations.
.
.3 Enrichment problemsSeveral expansion solutions are proposed by theQA approaches: use of synonyms or taxonomy?smembers, stemming or use of derivatives.
.
.Dubois?
dictionary contains some synonymslinked with a sense of the word they are syn-onymous with.
But these synonyms are toofew to provide sufficient enrichments.
The sys-tem needs one or more synonyms dictionariesto complete Dubois?
gaps.
No synonyms dictio-nary shares out the synonyms by sense of the en-try, except EuroWordNet (Catherin, 1999).
ButEuroWordNet ?s sharing out into senses does notmatch Dubois?
senses.
Thus the question is todistribute the available synonyms of each wordto the right sense in Dubois?.The stemming, which considers two wordswith the same stem nearly synonyms, is too un-predictable to be used in a methodology thattries to avoid noise.
As Dubois?
provides in-structions to form derivatives from lemma andsuffixes for some senses, the derivation is pre-ferred to the stemming.
But the instructions areoften vague, and indicate only the suffix to useand the new part-of-speech.
It is not sufficientto be used automatically.
Thus the derivationprocedure needs an extra tool able to proposederivatives, including the right one.
Dubois?
in-formation is sufficient to filter and classify them.Finally, Dubois?
does not provide taxonomy,and the French resources containing a seman-tic hierarchy do not supply contextual informa-tion.
The taxonomy has to be found in anotherresource, which is not consistent with the ref-erence dictionary.
The compatibility betweensenses of all these resources is the objective.4 How to make the dictionariescompatibleThe main difficulty is to share out informationcollected from extra dictionaries.
The dictio-naries are incompatible with Dubois?, but newdata have to be distributed following the sensesof the entries of the reference dictionary.4.1 SynonymsThree resources are at my disposal: Bailly?sdictionary (Bailly, 1947), an electronic dictio-nary designed by Memodata, and the FrenchEuroWordNet (Catherin, 1999).
The expansionmethods commonly use all the available syn-onyms for a word, but my approach has to keeponly the synonyms corresponding to the currentsense of the word.
For each considered sense fora word, Dubois?
provides semantic features: asemantic class and an application domain.The synonyms from the extra dictionaries areproposals.
A proposal for a lemma in Dubois?dictionary is kept for a given sense only if onesense at least of the Dubois?
entry correspond-ing to the proposal matches the semantic fea-tures of the given sense.
If no sense of the pro-posal matches the semantic features of the givensense, the proposal is rejected for this sense.In figure 2, the problem is to determine whichproposal matches the word ravir in the sense nb2 voler (to steal).
The semantic features of thisSemantic features of the entry:Domain Classravir (2) SOC S4Semantic features of synonyms:Domain Classcharmer PSY P2voler SOC S4Figure 2: Selection of the synonyms.sense are the application domain SOC (sociol-ogy) and the semantic class S4 (to grip, to own).The proposal charmer, which features are PSY(psychology) and P2 (psychological verb) doesnot match the features of ravir 2.
The proposalde?rober in its second and fourth senses has thesame features.
This proposal is confirmed forravir in sense nb 2.
It will be used as enrichmentwhen the sense nb 2 of ravir is detected in anutterance by the semantic disambiguator.
Thisprocedure is applied for all the proposed syn-onyms for all the senses of each entry in Dubois?.4.2 DerivativesThe derivation field in the Dubois?
provides suf-ficient indications to recognize the stipulatedderivatives of an entry in a determined sense.Thus, the need is a resource or a tool provid-ing all the potential derivative from a word.Resources are rare and incomplete for French,but I have to my disposal a tool (Gaussier etal., 2000) able to construct suffixal derivativesfrom a word.
If the only constraint requires thederivatives belong to the lexicon, all the rightsuffixal forms are provided among the incor-rect proposals.
When all the proposals are pro-duced, the suffix of each proposal is comparedwith the instructions in the dictionary.
Whenthey match, the derivative is kept for the cur-rent sense.
If not, the derivative is rejected.Derivatives for the verb couper :Proposed Instruction Retainedderivatives sense nb 1 derivativescoupure ure coupurecoupable ?
removedcoupage (age sense 5) removedcoupeur eur coupeurcoupant ant coupant.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.Figure 3: Selection of the derivatives.The figure 3 shows the working of the method.For the verb couper in the sense trancher (tocut, to slice), Dubois?
indicates derivatives withsuffixes -ure: coupure (break), -ant : coupant(sharp) and -eur : coupeur (cutter).
But no in-struction is given for a suffix -able.
The wrongderivative coupable (guilty) is rejected.4.3 TaxonomyOnly two resources containing taxonomy existfor French.
AlethDic (Gsi, 1993) is known forits very bad quality.
The hierarchy is neithervery deep, nor very large.
The semantic rela-tions are not strictly defined inside the hierar-chy.
Because of this, I rejected AlethDic.The other resource is EuroWordNet.
Twokind of taxonomic relations are defined: hyper-onymy (and hyponymy), and meronymy (andholonymy).
The other semantic relations of thisresource fall outside the scope of this paper.The taxonomic relations link synsets to-gether.
The synsets contain synonymous wordsfor at least one of their senses.
The taxonomy isusable by the QA system only if the sense of thewhole synset can be identified, and if the sensematches at least one of the sense of the wordunder consideration in Dubois?
dictionary.So each word in Dubois?
has to be linked witha synset to be inserted into a taxonomic hierar-chy.
That amounts to match senses in Dubois?and synsets in EuroWordNet.
We already havesome senses in Dubois?
matching sets of syn-onyms in EuroWordNet.
It is easy to use theadditional synonyms from EuroWordNet to setup a correspondence between sense of Dubois?dictionary and synsets of EuroWordNet.The procedure is to examine all the synsetswhere a considered word appears.
For each of itssense, if the majority of the synonyms obtainedfrom EuroWordNet are contained in a synset,the meaning illustrated by the synset and thissense of the word are considered to be equiva-lent.
In this case, the word under considerationis inserted in this place into the taxonomic hi-erarchy.
Otherwise, the synset is not seen tomatch the sense, and it is rejected.5 Experienced problemsThe difficulties met differ for each kind of pro-cessed data.
In the sharing out of the synonyms,the system cannot determine automatically themeaning of a multiword expression.
Dubois?only lists single words, and no semantic featurecan be allocated to a multiword expression.
Amultiword proposal is considered to have all themeaning of the word to which it is synonym.I have no real evaluation of this procedure:the division into senses of the reference dictio-nary is as always open to doubt.
Consideringthe result, examiners never agree with each syn-onyms for a sense.
But when they agree (threeexaminers where consulted), they where satis-fied by more than 80% of the synonyms.The derivation tool provides nearly all thederivatives from a word when no constraint isdefined.
Most of the wrong derivatives (about97%) are screened by the instructions suppliedby Dubois?
dictionary.
However, these figureare not valid for short words: the tool is desig-nated in such a way that derivatives with a rad-ical shorter than 3 letters are generally wrong.Moreover, the instructions are often incompletein the dictionary, above all nominal entries.The promising procedure using taxonomy,presented above, is still a suggestion.
I am fac-ing with the problem that EuroWordNet cov-ers only a small part of the French lexicon.
Amore proper trial should use WordNet (Fell-baum, 1998), that covers a huge part of the En-glish lexicon, in an English QA application.6 ConclusionIn this paper, I present an original method tomerge several dictionaries in such a way thatall the informative fields become semanticallyconsistent.
This need comes from an expansionmethod for QA, which uses as enrichment onlythe synonyms, derivatives, and taxonomy thatmatch the sense determined by a semantic dis-ambiguator.
The method to share out informa-tion is particular for each kind of enrichment.An analysis of the experienced problems showsthe interest of the method, and insists on thepoints that still have to be tackled.In a more general perspective, it is knownthat no perfect dictionary exists.
Each dictio-nary used by this method has gaps.
The methodused to mix information is filtering data fromextra dictionaries by data from a reference dic-tionary, but errors in the reference are passed onto the added data.
The right solution should beto use more than one reference dictionary.ReferencesSalah A?
?t-Mokhtar, Jean-Pierre Chanod, andClaude Roux.
2002.
Robustness beyond shal-lowness: incremental deep parsing.
NaturalLanguage Engineering, 8(2/3):121?144.Rene?
Bailly.
1947.
Dictionnaire des synonymesde la langue franc?aise.
Larousse, Paris.Caroline Brun, Bernard Jacquemin, andFre?de?rique Segond.
2001.
Exploitationde dictionnaires e?lectroniques pour lade?sambigu?
?sation se?mantique lexicale.
TAL,42(3):667?690.Caroline Brun.
2000.
A client/server archi-tecture for word sense disambiguation.
InProceedings of Coling?2000, pages 132?138,Saarbru?cken, Deutschland.Laurent Catherin.
1999.
The french wordnet.Technical report, EuroWordNet.Jean Dubois and Franc?oise Dubois-Charlier.1997.
Dictionnaire des verbes franc?ais.Larousse, Paris.
Electronic version, with itscomplement: Dictionnaire des mots.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet:an electronic lexical database.
Language,Speech and Communication.
The MIT Press,Cambridge, Massachusetts.Olivier Ferret, Brigitte Grau, Gabriel Illouz,Christian Jacquemin, and N. Masson.
1999.Qualc.
The question-answering program ofthe langage et cognition group at limsi-cnrs.In Proceedings of TREC-8, pages 455?464.E?ric Gaussier, Gregory Grefenstette, DavidHull, and Claude Roux.
2000.
Recherched?information en franc?ais et traitement au-tomatique des langues.
TAL, 41(2):473?493.Gsi-Erli, France, 1993.
Le dictionnaireAlethDic, 1.5 edition, Mars.David A.
Hull.
1999.
Xerox trec-8 questionanswering track report.
In Proceedings ofTREC-8, pages 743?752.Bernard Jacquemin, Caroline Brun, and ClaudeRoux.
2002.
Enriching a text by semanticdisambiguation for information extraction.
InLREC 2002 Workshop Proceedings.Bernard Jacquemin.
2003.
Construction et in-terrogation de la structure informationnelled?une base documentaire en franc?ais.
Ph.D.thesis, Universite?
de la Sorbonne Nouvelle.Bernard Jacquemin.
2004.
Analyse et expan-sion des textes en question-re?ponse.
In Actesdes 7e`mes JADT, volume 2, pages 633?641.Dan Moldovan, Sanda Harabagiu, Marius Psca,Rada Mihalcea, Richard Goodrum, RoxanaGrju, and Vasile Rus.
2000.
The structureand performance of an open-domain questionanswering system.
In Proceedings of the 38thAnnual Meeting of the ACL, pages 563?570.Warren Weaver, 1949.
Machine translation oflanguages, chapter Translation, pages 15?23.John Wiley and Sons, New York.
