Identifying correspondences between words: an approach based on a bilingualsyntactic analysis of French/English parallel corporaSylwia OZDOWSKAEquipe de Recherche en Syntaxe et S?mantiqueUniversit?
Toulouse le Mirail5 all?es Antonio Machado31058 Toulouse Cedex 1 Franceozdowska@univ-tlse2.frAbstractWe present a word alignment procedure basedon a syntactic dependency analysis ofFrench/English parallel corpora called?alignment by syntactic propagation?.
Bothcorpora are analysed with a deep and robustparser.
Starting with an anchor pair consistingof two words which are potential translationsof one another within aligned sentences, thealignment link is propagated to thesyntactically connected words.
The methodwas tested on two corpora and achieved aprecision of 94.3 and 93.1% as well as a recallof 58 and 56%, respectively for each corpus.1 IntroductionIt is now an aknowledged fact that parallelcorpora, i.e.
corpora made of texts in one languageand their translation in another language, are wellsuited in particular to cope with the problem of theconstruction of bilingual resources such asbilingual lexicons or terminologies.
Several workshave focused on the alignment of units which aresmaller than a sentence, for instance words orphrases, as to produce bilingual word, phrase orterm associations.
A common assumption is thatthe alignment of words or phrases raises a realchallenge, since it is ?neither one-to-one, norsequential, nor compact?, and thus ?thecorrespondences are fuzzy and contextual?
(Debili,1997).
Indeed, it is even often diffult for a humanto determine which source unit correspond towhich target unit within aligned sentences (Ochand Ney, 2003).Most alignment systems working on parallelcorpora rely on statistical models, in particular theEM ones (Brown, Della Pietra and Mercer, 1993).Quite recently attempts have been made in order toincorporate different types of linguisticinformation sources into word and phrasealignment systems.
The idea is to take into accountthe specific problems arising from the alignment atthe word or phrase level mentioned in particular byDebili (1997).
Different types of linguisticknowledge are exploited: morphological, lexicaland syntactic ones.
In the method described in thisarticle, the syntactic information is the kernel ofthe alignment process.
Indeed, syntactic relationsidentified on both sides of the French/Englishparallel corpus with a deep and robust parser areused to find out new correspondences betweenwords or to confirm existing ones in order toachieve a high accuracy alignment.
We call thisprocedure ?alignment by syntactic propagation?.2 State of the art2.1 Term alignmentTwo kinds of methods have been basicallyproposed in order to address the problem ofbilingual lexicon extraction.
On the one hand,terms are recognized in both source and targetlanguage and then they are mapped to each other(Daille, Gaussier and Lang?, 1994).
On the otherhand, only source terms are extracted and thetarget ones are discovered through the alignmentprocess (Gaussier, 1998; Hull, 2001).
Thealignment between terms is obtained either bycomputing association probabilities (Gaussier,1998 ; Daille, Gaussier and Lang?, 1994) or byidentifying, for a given source term, a sequence ofwords in the target language which is likely tocontain or to correspond to its translation (Hull,2001).
In so far as the precision rate may beaffected by the number of alignments obtained(Daille, Gaussier and Lang?, 1994; Gaussier,1998), the results achieved basically range between80% and 90%, for the first 500 alignments.
As forthe method described in (Hull, 2001), the precisonreported is 56%.It should be noticed that the use of linguisticknowledge is most of the time restricted to theterm recognition stage.
This kind of knowledge isquite rarely taken into account within the veryalignment process, except for the approachimplemented by Daille, Gaussier and Lang?
(1994), which try to take advantage ofcorrespondences between the syntactic patternsdefined for each language.2.2 Word alignmentQuite recently attempts have been made in orderto incorporate different types of linguisticinformation sources into word alignment systemsand to combine them with statistical knowledge.Various and more or less complex sources oflinguistic knowledge are exploited: morphological,lexical (Arhenberg, Andersson and Merkel, 2000)and syntactic knowledge (Wu, 2000; Lin andCherry, 2003).
The contribution of theseinformation sources to the alignment process withrespect to the statistical data varies according to theconsidered system.
However, as pointed out byArhenberg, Andersson and Merkel (2000) as wellas Lin and Cherry (2003), the introduction oflinguistic knowledge leads to a significantimprovement in alignment quality.
In the first case,the accuracy goes from 91% for a baselineconfiguration up to 96.7% for a linguisticknowledge based one.
In the second, the precisionrate is increased from 82.7% up to 89.2% and theimprovement noticed have been confirmed withinthe framework of an evaluation task (Mihalcea andPedersen, 20003).For our part, we propose a method in which thesyntactic information plays a major role in thealignment process, since syntactic relations areused to find out new correspondences betweenwords or to confirm the existent ones.
We chosethis approach in order to achieve a high accuracyalignment both at word and phrase level.
Indeed,we aim at capturing frequent alignments betweenwords and phrases as well as those involvingsparse or corpus specific ones.
Moreover, asstressed in previous works, using syntacticdependencies seems to be particularly well suitedto solve n-to-1 or n-to-m alignments (Fluhr, Bissonand Elkateb, 2000) and to cope with the problem oflinguistic variation and non correspondence acrosslanguages, for instance when aligning terms(Gaussier, 2001).3 Starting hypothesisWe take as a starting point the hypothesisformulated by Debili and Zribi (1996) according towhich ?paradigmatic connections can help todetermine syntagmatic relations, and conversely?1.More precisely, the idea is that one can make useof syntactic relations to validate or invalidate theexistence of alignment links, on the one hand, andto create new ones, on the other hand.
Thereasoning is as follows : if there is a pair of anchorwords, i.e.
if two words w1i (community in theexample) and w2m (communaut?)
are aligned at thesentence level, and if there is a syntactic relationstanding between w1i (community) and w1j (ban)on the one hand, and between w2m (communaut?
)and w2n (interdire) on the other hand, then thealignment link is propagated from the anchor pair(community, communaut?)
to the words (ban,interdire).
We call this procedure ?alignment bysyntactic propagation?.1Our translation of the French version ?
les liaisonsparadigmatiques peuvent aider ?
d?terminer lesrelations syntagmatiques, et inversement ?.The Community banned imports of ivory.SUBJECTLa Communaut?
a interdit l?importation d?ivoire.SUBJECTIn the rest of this article, we describe the overalldesign and implementation of the syntacticpropagation process and the results of applying itto two parsed French/English parallel corpora:INRA and JOC.4 Corpus processingThe alignment by syntactic propagation wastested on two different parallel corpora aligned atthe sentence level: INRA and JOC.
The firstcorpus was constituted at the National Institute forAgricultural Research (INRA)2 to enrich abilingual terminology database exploited bytranslators.
It comprises about 300,000 words andmainly consists of research and popular-sciencepapers, press releases.The JOC corpus was provided by the ARCADEproject, a campaign devoted to the evaluation ofparallel text alignment systems (Veronis andLanglais, 2000).
It contains written questions on awide variety of topics addressed by members of theEuropean Parliament to the European Commissionand corresponding answers published by theOfficial Journal of the European Community innine official languages.
A portion of about 400,000words of the French and English parts were used inthe framework of the ARCADE evaluation task.The corpus processing was carried out by aFrench/English parser: SYNTEX (Bourigault andFabre, 2000; Fr?rot, Fabre and Bourigault, 2003).SYNTEX is a dependency parser whose input is a2 We are grateful to A. Lacombe who allowed us to usethis corpus for research purposes.POS tagged3 corpus?meaning each word in thecorpus is assigned a lemma and grammatical tag.The parser identifies syntactic dependencies in thesentences of a given corpus, for instance subjects,direct and indirect objects of verbs.
Once allsyntactic dependencies have been identified, a setof words and phrases is extracted out of the corpus.The association score is computed provided thenumber of overall occurrences of u1 and u2 ishigher than 4 since statistical techniques haveproved to be particularly efficient when aligningfrequent units.
Moreover, the alignments arefiltered according to the j(u1, u2) value, providedthe latter is higher than 0.2.
Then, two tests, basedon cognate recognition and mutual correspondencecondition (Altenberg, 1999), are applied as to filterspurious associations out of the initial lexicon.Both versions of the parser?the French one andthe English one?are being developed according tothe same procedures and architecture.
The parsingis performed independently in each language, yetthe outputs are quite homogeneous since thesyntactic dependencies are identified andrepresented in the same way in both languages.
Inthis respect, the alignment method proposed isdifferent from the ones developed by Wu (2000) aswell as Lin and Cherry (2003): the former is basedon synchronous parsing while the letter uses adependency tree generated only in the sourcelanguage.The identification of anchor pairs, consisting ofwords which are translation equivalents withinaligned sentences, combines both the projection ofthe initial lexicon and the recognition of cognatesfor words which have not been taken into accountin the lexicon.
These pairs are used as the startingpoint of the propagation process.Table 1Table 1: The identification of anchor pairsgives some characteristics of the twocorpora as for the number of aligned sentences, theoverall number of anchor pairs identified, theaverage number of anchor pairs per sentence pairas well as the precision rate4 of the anchor pairs.
Itcan be seen that a high number of anchor pairs hasbeen identified per sentence for both corpora witha high accuracy.In addition to parsed French/English corpusaligned at the sentence level, the syntacticalignment requires pairs of anchor words beidentified prior to propagation as to start theprocess.
In this study, we chose to extract a lexiconout of the corpus, the anchor pairs being locatedboth by projecting the lexicon at the level ofaligned sentences and processing the identical andfuzzy cognates.INRA JOCaligned sentences 7056 8774anchor pairs 42570 58771words/source sentence 21 25words/target sentence 24 30anchor pairs/sentence 6.38 6.77precision (%) 98 99.35 Identification of anchor pairsTo derive a list of words which are likely to beused to initiate the syntactic propagation processout of the corpus, we implemented a widely usedmethod described notably in (Gale and Church,1991; Ahrenberg, Andersson and Merkel, 2000)which is based on the assumption that the wordswhich appear frequently in aligned text segmentsare potential translation equivalents.
For eachsource (English) and target (French) unit,respectively u1 and u2, extracted by SYNTEX, thetranslation equivalents are searched for bycounting co-occurrences of (u1, u2) in alignedsentences in comparison with their overalloccurrences in the corpus and then an associationscore is computed.
In this study, we chose theJaccard association score which is calculated asfollows:6 Syntactic propagation6.1 Two types of propagationThe syntactic propagation may be performedaccording to two different directions.
Indeed, agiven word is likely to be both governor anddependent with respect to other words.
The firstdirection consists in starting with dependent anchorwords and propagating the alignment link to thegovernors (DepGov propagation).
The DepGovpropagation is a priori not ambiguous since onedependent is governed at most by one word.
Thus,there is just one syntactic relation on which thepropagation can be based.
The syntactic structuresare said to be parallel in English and Frenchprovided the two following conditions are met: i)the relation under consideration is identical in bothlanguages and ii) the words involved in thef(u1, u2)j(u1, u2) =f(u1) + f(u2) ?
f(u1, u2)3 We use both the French and English versions of theTreetagger.
(http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de) 4 The precision was evaluated manually6.2 Alignment of verbs syntactic propagation have the same POS.
Thesecond direction goes the opposite way: startingwith governor anchor words, the alignment link ispropagated to the dependents (GovDeppropagation).
In this case, several relations whichmay be used to achieve the propagation areavailable, as it is possible for a governor to havemore than one dependent, and so the propagation ispotentially ambiguous.
The ambiguity isparticularly widespread when performing theGovDep propagation from head nouns to theirnominal and adjectival dependents.
Let us considerthe example (1).
There is one occurrence of therelation PREP in English and two in French.
Thus,it is not possible to determine a priori whether topropagate using the relations NN/PREP2, on the onehand, and PREP1/PREP2?, on the other hand, orNN/PREP2?
and PREP1/PREP2.
Moreover, even ifthere is just one occurrence of the same relation ineach language, it does not mean that thepropagation is of necessity performed through thesame relation, as shown in example (2).Verbs are aligned according to eight propagationpatterns, that is to say five for the DepGovpropagation and three for the GovDep one.DEPGOV PROPAGATION TO ALIGN GOVERNORVERBS.
Five propagation patterns are used to alignverbs: Adv-MOD-V (1), N-SUJ-V (2), N-OBJ-V(3), N-PREP-V (4) and V-PREP-V (5).
(1) The net is then hauled to the shore.Le filet est ensuite hal?
?
terre.
(2) The fish are generally caught when theymigrate from their feeding areas.G?n?ralement les poissons sont captur?s quand ilsmigrent de leur zone d?engraissement.
(3) Most of the young shad reach the sea.La plupart des alosons gagne la mer.
(4) The eggs are very small and fall to the bottom.Les oeufs de tr?s petite taille tombent sur le fond.
(5) X is a model which was designated tostimulate?X est un mod?le qui a ?t?
con?u pour stimuler?
GOVDEP PROPAGATION TO ALIGN DEPENDENTVERBS.
The alignment links are propagated fromthe dependents to the verbs using three propagationpatterns: V-PREP-V (1), V-PREP-N (2) and V-PREP-Adj (3).NN       PREP1(1)outdoor use  of waterutilisation  en ext?rieur de l?eauPREP2(1) Ploughing tends to destroy the soilmicroaggregated structure.
PREP2?
Le labour tend ?
rompre leur structuremicroagr?g?e.
(2)  (2) The capacity to colonize the digestivemucosa?NN             PREP1L?aptitude ?
coloniser le tube digestif?ADJreference product on the marketproduit commercial de r?f?rence(3) An established infection is impossible tocontrol.
Toute infection en cours est impossible ?
ma?triser.
PREP2  DepGovpropagationGovDeppropagationINRAprecision (%) 94.1 96.7JOCprecision (%) 92.7 97.5In the following sections, we describe preciselythe implementation of the two types of propagationdefined above in order to align verbs (section  6.2),on the one hand, and nouns and adjectives, on theother hand (section  6.3).
To this, we rely ondifferent propagation patterns.
Propagationpatterns are given in the form CDep-REL-CGov,where CDep is the POS of the dependent, REL isthe syntactic relation and CGov, the POS of thegovernor.
The anchor element is underlined andthe one aligned by propagation is bolded.
Forinstance, the pattern N-SUJ-V corresponds to thepropagation going from a noun anchor pair to theverbs through the subject relation.Table 2: Alignment of verbs by means of theDepGov and GovDep propagation6.3 Alignment of adjectives and nounsAs for verbs, the two types of propagationdescribed in section  6.1 are used to align adjectivesand nouns.
However, as far as these categories ofwords are concerned, they can?t be treated in afully independent way when propagating fromhead noun anchor words in order to align thedependents.
Indeed, the syntactic structure of nounphrases may be different in English and French,since they rely on a different type of compositionto produce compounds and on the same one toproduce free noun phrases (Chuquet and Paillard,1989).
Then the potential ambiguity arising fromthe GovDep propagation from head nouns evokedin section  6.1 may be accompanied by variationphenomena affecting the category of thedependents, called transposition (Vinay andDarbelnet, 1958; Chuquet and Paillard, 1989).
Forinstance, a noun may be rendered by an adjective,or vice versa: tax treatment profits is translated bytraitement fiscal des b?n?fices, so the noun tax is incorrespondence with the adjective fiscal.
Thesyntactic relations used to propagate the alignmentlinks are thus different.In order to cope with the variation problem, thepropagation is performed whether the syntacticrelations are identical in both languages or not, andif they are not, whether the categories of the wordsto be aligned are the same or not.
To sum up,adjectives and nouns are aligned separately of eachother by means of DepGov propagation or GovDeppropagation provided that the governor is not anoun.
They are not treated separately whenaligning by means of GovDep propagation fromhead noun anchor pairs.DEPGOV PROPAGATION TO ALIGN ADJECTIVES.The propagation patterns involved are: Adv-MOD-Adj (1), N-PREP-Adj (2) and V-PREP-Adj (3).
(1) The white cedar exhibits a very commonphysical defect.Le Poirier-pays pr?sente un d?faut de forme tr?sfr?quent.
(2) The area presently devoted to agriculturerepresents?La surface actuellement consacr?e ?
l?agriculturerepr?senterait?
(3) Only fours plots were liable to receive thisinput.Seulement quatre parcelles sont susceptibles derecevoir ces apports.DEPGOV PROPAGATION TO ALIGN NOUNS.
Nounsare aligned according to the following propagationpatterns: Adj-ADJ-N (1), N-NN-N/N-PREP-N (2),N-PREP-N (3) and V-PREP-N (4).
(1) Allis shad remain on the continental shelf.La grande alose reste sur le plateau continental.
(2) Nature of micropolluant carriers.La nature des transporteurs des micropolluants.
(3) The bodies of shad are generally fusiform.Le corps des aloses est g?n?ralement fusiforme.
(4) Ability to react to light.Capacit?
?
r?agir ?
la lumi?re.DepGov propagationAdjectives NounsINRAprecision (%) 98.7 94.2JOCprecision (%) 97.2 93.7Table 3: Alignment of adjectives and nouns bymeans of the DepGov propagationUNAMBIUOUS GOVDEP PROPAGATION TO ALIGNNOUNS.
The propagation is not ambiguous whendependent nouns are not governed by a noun.
Thisis the case when considering the following threepropagation patterns: N-SUJ|OBJ-V (1), N-PREP-V(2) and N-PREP-Adj (3).
(1) The caterpillars can inoculate the fungus.Les chenilles peuvent inoculer le champignon.
(2) The roots are placed in tanks.Les racines sont plac?es en bacs.
(3) Botrysis, a fungus responsible for grey rot.Botrysis, champignon responsable de la pourrituregrise.POTENTIALLY AMBIGUOUS GOVDEPPROPAGATION TO ALIGN NOUNS AND ADJECTIVES.As we already explained in section  6.1, thepropagation is potentially ambiguous when startingwith head noun anchor words and trying to alignthe noun(s) and/or adjective(s) they govern.Considering this potential ambiguity, the algorithmwhich supports GovDep propagation form headnoun anchor words (n1, n2) takes into accountthree situations which are likely to occur :1. if each of n1 and n2 have only onedependent, respectively reg1 and reg2,involving one of the following relationsNN, ADJ or PREP; reg1 and reg2 arealigned;the drained wheyle lactos?rum d??gouttage?
(drained, ?gouttage)2. n1 has one dependent reg1 and n2 severalones {reg21, reg22, ?, reg2n}, or viceversa.
For each reg2i, check if one of thepossible alignments has already beenperformed, either by propagation or anchorword spotting.
If such an alignment exists,remove the others (reg1, reg2k) such as k ?i, or vice versa.
Otherwise, retain all thealignments (reg1, reg2i), or vice versa,without solving the ambiguity;stimulant substances which are absentfrom?substances solubles stimulantes absentesde?
(stimulant, {soluble, stimulant, absent})already_aligned(stimulant, stimulant) = 1?
stimulant, stimulant)3. both n1 and n2 have several dependents,{reg11, reg12, ?, reg1m} and {reg21,reg22, ?, reg2n} respectively.
For eachreg1i and each reg2j, check if one/severalalignments have already been performed.If such alignments exist, remove all thealignments (reg1k, reg2l) such as k ?
i orl ?
j.
Otherwise, retain all the alignments(reg1i, reg2j) without solving theambiguity.unfair trading practicespratiques commerciales d?loyales(unfair, {commercial, d?loyal})(trading, {commercial, d?loyal})already_aligned(unfair, d?loyal) = 1?
(unfair, d?loyal)?
(trading, commercial)a big rectangular net, which is lowered?un vaste filet rectangulaire immerg??
(big, {vaste, rectangulaire, immerg?
})(rectangular, {vaste, rectangulaire, immerg?
})already_aligned(rectangular, rectangulaire) = 1?
(rectangular, rectangulaire)?
(big, {vaste, immerg?
})The implemented propagation algorithm has twomajor advantages: it allows to solve somealignment ambiguities taking advantage ofalignments which have been performed previously.This algorithm allows also to cope with theproblem of non correspondence between Englishand French syntactic structures and makes itpossible to align words using different syntacticrelations in both languages, even though thecategory of the words under consideration isdifferent.GovDep propagationGov?Noun Gov=NounINRAprecision (%) 95.4 97.7JOCprecision (%) 95 95.4Table 4: Alignment of adjectives and nouns bymeans of the GovDep propagation6.4 Overall resultsTable 5 gives a summary of the results obtainedby applying all propagation patterns according toeach corpus.
It can be seen that the highestaccuracy is achieved for the alignmentscorresponding to anchor pairs validated by thesyntactic propagation (AP and PP): 99.7 and99.8% precision, respectively for INRA and JOC.The rates tend to decrease ?
respectively 88.5 and86.1% ?
as regards alignments established only bymeans of propagation, referred to as propagatedpairs (PP), and is even lower ?
76.3% ?
for theanchor pairs which have not been confirmed by thepropagation (AP).
Furthermore, the newalignments produced account for less than 20% ofoverall alignments to approximately 50% for theconfirmed ones.
Finally, since the method aims ataligning content words, the recall is assessed inrelation to their overall occurrences in the corpora.Total AP AP and PP PPINRAalignments50438(100%)23646(47%)18923(37%)7868(16%)precision (%) 94.3 76.3 99.7 88.5recall (%) 58JOCalignments71814(100%)37118(52%)21625(30%)13073(18%)precision (%) 93.1 94 99.8 86.1recall (%) 56Table 5: overall results of word alignment7 DiscussionThe results achieved by the syntacticpropagation method are quite encouraging.
Theyshow a high global precision rate ?
94.3% for theINRA corpus and 93.1% for the JOC ?
assessedrespectively against a reference list ofapproximately 8000 and 4600 alignments.Various reasons make it difficult to compare theresults of this experiment with those reported in theliterature and presented in section 2.
Indeed, eachapproach has been tested on a different corpus andthe results achieved could depend on the type oftexts used for evaluation purposes.
Moreover, thereference alignment lists, i.e.
the gold standards,have probably been established according todifferent annotation criteria, which could alsoinfluence the quality of the results.
Finally, eachsystem has been designed, or at least used, toperform a specific task and evaluated in thisrespect.
Daille, Gaussier and Lang?
(1994), as wellas Gaussier (1998) and Hull (2001), wereinterested in bilingual terminology extraction sothat word alignment could not be considered as anend in itself but rather as a basis for termalignment.
The system proposed by Wu (2000)aims at bilingual language modelling, word andphrase alignment is incorporated as a subtask.Finally, Arhenberg, Andersson and Merkel (2000)as well as Lin and Cherry (2003) addressed theproblem of full word alignment without restrictingthemselves to content words.
Both noticed that theintegration of linguistic knowledge, morphologicaland lexical for the former, syntactic for the latter,improves the alignment quality.
However,concerning the approach proposed by Lin andCherry (2003), it should be pointed out thatlinguistic knowledge is considered secondary tostatistical information.
As regards the alignment bysyntactic propagation, linguistic knowledge is thekernel of the approach rather than an additionalinformation.The propagation of alignments links usingsyntactic relations has proved very efficient whenthe same propagation pattern is used in bothlanguages, i.e.
when the syntactic structures areidentical.
A high level of precision is also achievedin the case of noun/adjective transpositions, even ifthe category of the words to be aligned varies.
Weare actually pursuing the study of non-correspondence between syntactic structures inEnglish and French outlined in (Ozdowska andBourigault, 2004).
The aim is to determine whetherthere are some regularities in rendering certainEnglish structures into certain French ones or not.If variation across languages is subjected to suchregularities, the syntactic propagation could thenbe extended to the cases of non correspondence.ReferencesAhrenberg L., Andersson M. and Merkel M. 2000.A knowledge-lite approach to word alignment,V?ronis J.
(Ed.
), Parallel Text Processing :Alignment and Use of Translation Corpora,Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers, pp.
97-138.Altenberg B.
1999.
Adverbial connectors inEnglish and Swedish: Semantic and lexicalcorrespondences, Hasselgard and Oksefjell (eds),pp.
249-268.Bourigault D. and Fabre C. 2000.
Approchelinguistique pour l?analyse syntaxique de corpus,Cahiers de Grammaire, 25, pp.
131-151,Universit?
Toulouse le Mirail.Brown P., Della Pietra S. and Mercer R. 1993.
Themathematics of statistical machine translation :parameter estimation, ComputationalLinguistics, 19(2), pp.
263-311.Chuquet H. and Paillard M. 1989.
Approchelinguistique des probl?mes de traductionanglais/fran?ais, Ophrys.Daille B., Gaussier E. and Lang?
J.-M. 1994.Towards Automatic Extraction of Monolingualand Bilingual Terminology, Proceedings of theInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING?94) , pp.
515-521.Debili F. 1997.
L?appariement :quels probl?mes ?,Actes des 1?res JST 1997 FRANCIL del?AUPELF-UREF, pp.
199-206.Debili F. and Zribi A.
1996.
Les d?pendancessyntaxiques au service de l?appariement desmots, Actes du 10?me Congr?s Reconnaissancedes Formes et Intelligence Artificielle(RFIA?96).Fluhr C., Bisson B. and Elkateb F. 2000.
ParallelText Alignment Using Crosslingual InformationRetrieval Techniques, V?ronis, J.
(Ed.
), ParallelText Processing : Alignment and Use ofTranslation Corpora, Dordrecht: KluwerAcademic Publishers.Fox H. J.
2002.
Phrasal Cohesion and StatisticalMachine Translation, Proceedings of EMNLP-02, pp.
304-311.Fr?rot C., Bourigault D. and Fabre C. 2003.
Marierapprentissage endog?ne et ressources exog?nesdans un analyseur syntaxique de corpus.
Le casdu rattachement verbal ?
distance de lapr?position ?
de ?,  in Traitement Automatiquedes Langues, 44-3.Fr?rot C., Rigou G. and Lacombe A.
2001.Approche phras?ologique d?une extractionautomatique de terminologie dans un corpusscientifique bilingue align?, Actes des 4?mesrencontres Terminologie et IntelligenceArtificielle, Nancy, pp 180-188.Gale W. A. and Church K. W. 1991.
IdentifyingWord Correspondences in Parallel Text,Proceedings of the DARPA Workshop on Speechand Natural Language.Gaussier E. 1998.
Flow Network Models for WordAlignment and Terminology Extraction fromBilingual Corpora, Proceedings of the joint 17thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics and 36th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics(COLING/ACL?98) , pp.
444-450.Gaussier E. 2001.
General considerations onbilingual terminology extraction, D. Bourigault,Ch.
Jacquemin, M.?C.
L?Homme (Eds.
), RecentAdvances in Computational Terminology, JohnBenjamins, pp.
167-183.Harris B.
1988.
Bi-text, A New Concept inTranslation Theory, Language Monthly, 54,pp.8-10.Hull D. 2001.
Software tools to support theconstruction of bilingual terminology lexicons,Bourigault, D., Jacquemin, Ch.
and L?Homme,M.-C.
(Eds.
), Recent Advances in ComputationalTerminology, John Benjamins, pp.
225-244.Lin D. and Cherry C. 2003a.
Linguistic Heuristicsin Word Alignment, Proceedings of PACLing2003.Lin D. and Cherry C. 2003b.
ProAlign: SharedTask System Description, WorkshopProceedings on Building and Using ParallelTexts: Data Driven Machine Translation andBeyond (HLT-NAACL 2003).Mihalcea R. and Pedersen T. 2003.
An EvaluationExercise for Word Alignment, WorkshopProceedings on Building and Using ParallelTexts: Data Driven Machine Translation andBeyond (HLT-NAACL 2003), pp.
1-10Och F. Z. and Ney H., 2003.
A SystematicComparison of Various Statistical AlignmentModels, Computational Linguistics, 29(1), pp.19-51.Ozdowska S. and Bourigault D. 2004.
D?tection derelations d?appariement bilingue entre termes ?partir d?une analyse syntaxique de corpus, Actesdu 14?me Congr?s Francophone AFRIF-AFIA deReconnaissance des Formes et IntelligenceartificielleV?ronis J.
(Ed).
2000.
Parallel Text Processing :Alignment and Use of Parallel Corpora,Dordrecht : Kluwer Academic Publishers.V?ronis J. and Langlais P. 2000.
Evaluation ofparallel text alignment systems.
The ARCADEproject, V?ronis J.
(ed.
), Parallel TextProcessing : Alignment and Use of TranslationCorpora, Dordrecht: Kluwer AcademicPublishers, pp.
371-388Vinay J-P. and Darbelnet J.
1958.
Stylistiquecompar?e du fran?ais et de l?anglais , Paris,Didier.Wu D. 2000.
Bracketing and aligning words andconstituents in parallel text using StochasticInversion Transduction Grammars, V?ronis, J.(Ed.
), Parallel Text Processing : Alignment andUse of Translation Corpora, Dordrecht: KluwerAcademic Publishers, pp.
139-167.
