Technology-enhanced Translator TrainingJarmila FICTUMOVADepartment of English and American StudiesFaculty of ArtsMasaryk UniversityArna Nov?ka 1602 00 BrnoCzech Republicfictumov@phil.muni.czAbstractThe aim of the paper is to present an Open SourceLearning Management System for creating coursesin translation theory and practice.
Some of its mostimportant characteristics are:?
Choice of course formats such as by week,by topic or social format?
Flexible array of course activities -Forums, Journals, Quizzes, Resources,Choices, Surveys, Assignments?
Full user logging and tracking - activityreports for each student are available?
Mail integration - copies of forum postsand teacher feedback can be mailed?
Assignment Module with due date andgrade requirementsThe training includes the use of corpora (mono-and bilingual) and TM tools, with tasks rangingfrom alignment of texts and creating a translationmemory, to terminology extraction fromspecialized comparable language corpora and othertranslation projects.1 IntroductionIn the last decade the practice of translating andtherefore also training of translators, like manyother features of our lives, have undergone a majorchange.
Is it a change for the better or for theworse?
To answer this question we have toconsider several aspects and characteristics ofpresent-day translation and translator training.
Thetitle of this paper uses the attribute ?technology-enhanced?.
I will explain what is meant by thisadjective and how indispensable technology hasbecome for translators nowadays.
I will touch uponproblems of translating into L2 and the resourcesand tools available for dealing with this sort oftranslation.
Finally, the personality of the teacherof translation and his/her background will beconsidered.2 History and New DevelopmentsFifteen years ago, before the Velvet Revolution1,a teacher of translation under the communistregime was left to his/her own devices as to whatto do.
The access to foreign language press andbroadcasts was limited due to political reasons,rather than technical ones, and so were the copyingfacilities.
The authorities required registration ofall copied materials, trying to prevent theinevitable ?
spreading of information on?forbidden?
topics.Typing with a number of carbon papers toproduce enough copies for the class used to bea standard procedure.
Extracts from fiction, writtenby dead or ?approved?
authors, were the mosteasily accessible sources of language materials.Magazines, journals and newspapers were difficultto get hold of but much more popular with thestudents.
The same was true about any authenticvideo material, TV recordings or films showinglife beyond the Iron Curtain, i.e.
in the West.
Usingnews items in lessons sometimes meant risking aclash with the official version of reports on publicradio and TV channels.But after 1989 sweeping changes occurred.Copiers, news broadcasts, newspapers and anabundance of books in foreign languages becamereality ?
with more to come: computers and theInternet.
We have been flooded with informationand technologies.
It did not happen overnight, andall the technological paraphernalia are not easy orcheap to get.
However, they are here, they areavailable and furthermore, we are expected to usethem efficiently.2.1 TranslatorsFor translators the advent of computers has meanta revolutionary change.
All the shelves ofreference materials, encyclopaedias anddictionaries are now inside the computer and there1 1989 in former Czechoslovakiais much more in there (Harold, 2003).
Thesituation is now reversed: instead of the lack ofresources and technology, there is too much for aperson to be able to come to grips with.
Translatorsare required to be at the cutting edge oftechnological endeavour.
They are expected to belinguistic geniuses and translate into and from theirmother tongue.
?Mother tongue?
is sometimes nolonger so easy to establish and is therefore calledthe ?language of habitual use?.2.1.1 Training of TranslatorsTraining of translators, like translation itself, hasbecome computer-bound.
No translator can dowithout mastering the basics of text processing andlooking up information on the Internet.
But this isby no means all of it.
Translator training shouldmake it possible for the students to use thecomputer with ease and confidence.
It should teachthem how to use all the necessary tools that aresupposed to make translation more efficient andthat, hopefully, also guarantee better quality oftranslation.Translation teachers have the option to use newLearning Management Systems to provide directaccess to links on the Internet and familiarize thestudents with the reality of working with electronictexts in the virtual environment.
For a comparisonof the various systems, use the link provided in thefootnote at the bottom of this page2.However, as Anthony Pym explains in his paperon E-Learning and Translator Training, we should?work with people as well as technology, since thepeople, not the tools, are the ones who are going tosolve your problems and achieve progress inlearning.
This (?)
point perhaps deserves specialemphasis.
As translation itself becomes anincreasingly technical concern, much of ourteaching inevitably concerns techniques, skills,tools, procedures, in fact anything except people.An exclusive focus on the technicalities of e-learning is likely to take us even further down thatroad.
And yet, when all is said and done, all ourcommunication is human-to-human, be it face-to-face or across the planet.
If the social principles oflearning communities and teaching teams can bemaintained and developed, there is nooverwhelming reason why technology should notextend rather than restrict the humanity of ourtask.?
My experience has shown thata combination of e-classes with traditional classestaking place every week is very effective.
Thatexplains the title of this article.
I use technology to2 http://www.edutools.info/course/compare/index.jspenhance the teaching rather than substitute theteacher-student and student-student interaction inthe classroom.3 The Learning Environment3.1 Background on Open Source SoftwareThe following information is from the CorporateUniversity Enterprise (CUE) White Paper: ?Thehistory of open source software is very closelyrelated to the history of the Internet itself.
It can betraced to post-Sputnik initiatives during theEisenhower administration.
Because theEisenhower administration did not want toconcentrate technology research in the Pentagon,money was provided to universities and new non-military government entities such as NASA andthe Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA).These agencies and universities became heavilyinvolved in developing computing andcommunications technologies.
?Like so much of the open source applicationsthat are available, the tools have beenconceptualised and created to fill a need in theuniversity setting.
Learning management systemsin the university setting are focused on onlinecollaboration, often as a supplement to classroomeducation.
This was a major criterion for ourchoosing Moodle (i.e.
Modular Object-OrientedDynamic Learning Environment).
Moodle is inmany ways a one-man campaign by the AustralianMartin Dougiamas.
As he himself says: ?Moodle ismy perpetual work in progress.
?3.1.1 AvailabilityMoodle3 is a course management system (CMS) -a software package designed to help educatorscreate quality online courses.
Such e-learningsystems are sometimes also called LearningManagement Systems (LMS) or Virtual LearningEnvironments (VLE).
One of the main advantagesof Moodle over other systems is a stronggrounding in social constructionist pedagogy.
Thismeans that the role of the teacher changes ?
he orshe is no longer the only source of knowledge butmore of a mediator of information and moderatorof discussions.Moodle is Open Source4 software, whichmeans that you are free to download it, use it,modify it and even distribute it under the terms ofthe General Public License (GNU)5.
Moodle runswithout modification on Unix, Linux, Windows,3 http://moodle.org/4 http://www.opensource.org/docs/definition.php5 http://moodle.org/doc/?frame=licence.htmlMac OS X, Netware and any other system thatsupports PHP, including most web host providers.Data is stored in a single database: MySQL andPostgreSQL are best supported, but it can also beused with Oracle, Access, Interbase, ODBC andothers.3.2 How does it work?Once Moodle has been installed on the server,the teacher has a chance to develop an electroniccourse totally independently of the technician.
It istrue that problems resulting from the very nature ofcomputer technology do occur, but apart fromthese, teachers can work on their own and use allthe creativity and resources they desire.
Theteaching takes place in a classroom equipped witha data projector and a screen and has access to theInternet.
Students are asked to print out theirversion after submitting them and bring the hardcopy to class.
It is necessary to have something tofall back upon when there is a technical problemand the data projector in the classroom does notwork or if there is another technical problem andno assignments can be displayed on the screen.First of all there is the option to choosebetween a weekly format, a topics format or eventhe social format.
The weekly and topics formatsare very similar in structure.
The main difference isthat each box in the weekly format covers exactlyone week and has the date, whereas in the topicsformat each box can cover whatever you like.
Thesocial format doesn't use much content at all and isbased around just one forum - this is displayed onthe main page (hence it is not suitable for ourpurposes).In a practical translation class each topic canbe devoted to a different type of text  (letters ?business and personal, articles, contracts etc.).
Theteacher can include resources for the study of thetopic by uploading files.
See the description underResources.Creating a course involves adding courseactivity modules to the main page in the order thatstudents will be using them.
They can be shuffledany time.
To turn on editing, the toggle switch"Turn on editing" under Administration must beon.
It shows or hides the extra controls necessaryto manipulate the main course page.
To add a newactivity, the type of activity is selected from a pop-up menu.
After adding activities the teacher canmove them up and down in the course layout byclicking on arrow icons next to each one.
They canalso be deleted by using the cross icon, and re-edited by using the edit icon.Within each topic or week the teacher can usean array of course activities: forums ?
to presentstudents?
contributions and stimulate discussion,journals to make the students describe theprocedure when fulfilling a more complex ordifficult task, or quizzes to test the students?progress in mastering the basics of translationtheory (a multiple-choice or true-false test) or thepitfalls of interference (translating sentences fromthe mother tongue ?
short-answers test).
Thequestions are kept in a categorised database, andcan be re-used within courses and even betweencourses.
Quizzes can allow multiple attempts.
Eachattempt is automatically marked, and the teachercan choose whether to give feedback or to showcorrect answers or both.
All answers can beevaluated later and more options can be added tothe ?correct answers?.Resources are the content of the course.Teachers may have existing content that they wantto add to the course, such as web pages, audiofiles, video files (e.g.
tutorials), Word documents,flash animations or even TM-tool files (.pxf and.txf).
Any type of file that exists can be uploadedinto the course and stored on the server.
While thefiles are on the server they can be moved, renamed,edited or deleted.
Updating materials is thereforevery easy and can be done fairly quickly.An assignment is usually set with a due date anda maximum grade.
Students are able to upload onefile.
The date they upload their file is recorded.Afterwards, there is a single page on which eachfile (and how late or early it is) can be viewed,including the date and feedback.
Half an hour afterthe teacher grades any particular student, Moodlewill automatically email that student a notification.If the teacher corrects the student?s assignmentusing ?track changes?
in Word, the student canthen access the corrections in a feedback file thatis uploaded in Moodle.
This feature was added byour administrator at the teachers?
request and wasnamed echo-assignment.Before the actual class takes place classmembers can view all the echo-assignments.
Afterthe deadline for submitting the assignment hasexpired, students can read their peers?
translationsand prepare for the discussion based on theirtranslations.It is also possible for the student, if theteacher allows it, to re-submit assignments afterthe class, making the necessary changes orimprovements.The teacher can use the Logs link (underAdministration) to get access to complete, rawlogs.
The teacher will see a link to a pop-upwindow that updates every sixty seconds andshows the last hour of activity.
Activity Reports(next to each name in the list of all people, or fromany user profile page) provide the teacher witha comprehensive overview of what any particularperson has been up to in the course.According to the CUE report, features are themain strength of Moodle.
The features listed aboveare only a sample.
Language support is anotherstrength.
Currently, Moodle is available in 34languages6, with more under development.
TheCzech version is currently being prepared at ourdepartment.
Moodle is the only open source LMSto truly address the issue of human resourceinformation systems (HRIS) integration.
The latestrelease has a graphical user interface (GUI) tool tohook into various external database formats.3.3 CoursesNow I would like to show you what translationcourses have been taught at our department7 usingMoodle:CoursesBecoming a Translator B8Translation Analysis ABorderline Cases in Translation9Introduction to Translation (Spring 2004)106 http://moodle.org/download/lang/7 http://www.phil.muni.cz/angl/e-learn/course/category.php?id=28 Jarmila Fictumova: Practical translation exercises, usingthe computer.
Students will employ the Internet, languagecorpora and CAT tools in translating non-literary texts.
Theywill deal with translations from and into English, create theirown glossaries of terms and try to revise translations.9 Jiri Rambousek : The course examines texts andlanguage phenomena that represent borderline cases intranslation and cannot therefore be dealt with by means oftranslation proper.
These instances should lead us to somegeneral observations about systemic differences betweenlanguages and cultures, as well as about translation.We shall concentrate on short isolated texts (e.g.
publicsignboards and announcements, advertisement texts), shortliterary texts strongly dependant on language (anecdote,limerick...) or some specific forms that hardly meet thestandards of textuality (crossword puzzles, secret codes).
Thestudents will be asked to (a) translate/transfer these texts intoCzech, (b) collect and compare original texts in bothlanguages, (c) define systemic differences between the twolanguages and cultures and rules for handling these instances,both from literature and from their own experience.10 Simona Mazacova, Jiri Rambousek: The students will beacquainted with the basic terms in the field of translation andtranslation studies and with a brief outline of the developmentof approaches to translation.
At the beginning of the course,Nida and Taber's Science of TranslatingTranslation Analysis BTranslation and Humour11Translation and Humour (Spring 2004)Translation of EssaysTranslation of Literature for ChildrenTranslation Pot-PourriTranslation Project 2004Table 1: List of Courses4 Other Tools and ResourcesAs mentioned earlier, translators are frequentlyasked to translate into L2, rather than into theirmother tongue.
This can bring about problemseven for very competent non-native users of thetarget language (TL).
Educated native speakers notbeing available all the time, the translator is leftwith a choice: either to refuse the job or to learnabout ways of coping with this challenge.The use of electronic corpora, monolingual andboth parallel and comparable, together with therelevant corpus managers or Internet searchengines can provide considerable help.
In theirbook Working with Specialized Language,A practical guide to using corpora, Lynne Bowkerand Jennifer Pearson explain in detail how LSPcorpora can be used as a translation resource.Students can follow their explanations and createsmall ad hoc corpora to investigate usage, stylethe importance of competence in the target language will bestressed and a short test in Czech will inform the students ofthe level of their Czech.
The core of the course consists of thetranslation of various types of texts and the discussion ofdifferent translation procedures and techniques.
Thetheoretical basis will be supplied.
Literature: J.
Lev?, Um?n?p?ekladu; S. Bassnett, Translation Studies; P. Newmark,Textbook of Translation11 Simona Mazacova : Translating humour can be anextremely rewarding, yet at the same time an extremelydifficult task, as humour is more easily recognised thananalysed or reproduced.
This seminar is going to examinehumour as a specific category which is closely tied not only tolanguage, but also to culture, mentality and historical context;look at different types of humour and perhaps attempt a small?cross-cultural study?
on the differences between Czech andAnglo-Saxon humour.
Above all, however, we will try toTRANSLATE humour and for this purpose the seminar willemploy not only literary texts but also jokes, cartoons, adverts,drama, films or TV programmes.
There will also be somespace for the students to contribute their own favouritehumorous texts.and search for explanatory contexts in dealing withterminology.
Here are some key points they give:?
?A corpus can provide you with bothlinguistic and conceptual information.?
You can consult a parallel corpus inmuch the same way as you consult abilingual dictionary, but a corpus willprovide more collocational and stylisticinformation than a dictionary.?
A monolingual corpus can also be usedas a translation resource, but you have tobe more creative in devising strategies tofind equivalents.?
You can also use monolingual corpora tohelp you choose between synonyms,identify usage information anddetermine what style is appropriate foryour translation.
?Although more time is devoted to translations intoCzech, students also translate into English and getacquainted with the above-mentioned techniques.They are assigned tasks in terminology extractionand management.
To work on these projects theyused MultiTrans12 and Bonito13.Bonito is a corpus manager developed byPavel Rychly of the Faculty of Informatics,Masaryk University in Brno.
The students havebeen using Bonito to search corpora, including aCzech-English parallel Corpus that was developedat the Faculty of Arts14.Another part of the training in ?Becoming aTranslator?
was to simulate a translation agency.The students were asked to work with the freePersonal Edition (PE) version of Transit15 totranslate a text into English.
I used TransitProfessional and Term Star to prepare translationprojects for them.
These projects (.pxf format)were based on revised translations and includedreference material for concordance searches andalso the required terminology.
The studentsuploaded their translations in .txf format inMoodle.Apart from language skills and masteringnew technologies, working as a translator alsoinvolves dealing with clients, agencies, employers;networking, research, use of technology; andgenerally an awareness of the roles translationplays in society and society plays in translation(Robinson, 1997).
Students were therefore exposedto real-life situations and met experiencedtranslators who told them about their work.
They12 http://www.multicorpora.ca/multitransoverview_e.html13 http://nlp.fi.muni.cz/projects/bonito/14 http://www.phil.muni.cz/angl/15 http://www.star-solutions.net/html/eng/support/Transit-SAT-PE.htmlalso followed discussions on the Internet onvarious lists for translators and attended lectures,directly or on-line.
Recently Power-Pointpresentations of such lectures have been uploadedin Moodle.It follows from what has been said thattranslation teachers should be educated astranslators and teachers as well.
This backgroundshould make it possible for them to pass on theknowledge and skills they have acquired.
It helps ifthe translation teacher is an IT expert as well.
Tomention some personal qualities ?
I believe thatteachers in general, but translation teachers inparticular, should be open to discussion, definitelynot dogmatic, and willing to learn all their lives.On the other hand, patience and pedantry, up to acertain degree, is a must to be able to instil basicrules and responsibilities of the profession in thestudents.5 ConclusionThe aim of this paper was to provide informationon courses in translation theory and practice, basedon current teaching experience, using the coursemanagement system called Moodle.I think that the instruction has changed for thebetter due to the new technologies.
Other questionsspring to mind ?
how is it possible that the qualityof translations is not getting better, too?
Is there alimit to what can be learned?
We will have to waitand see to be able to make a statement about that.In conclusion I would like to say that creatingweb-based materials and using authentic materialsis an exciting and rewarding activity but also anever-ending adventure likely to ?swallow?
mostof the teachers?
leisure time.
There is some hope,however, that once this groundbreaking work hasbeen done, more time can be devoted to improvingthe courses and making them work without a hitch.6 AcknowledgementsMy thanks go to all my colleagues, friends andfamily who have contributed to the creation of mycourses and to Dan Miksik, the Moodleadministrator in particular.
Last but not least, alsoto past and present students for their patience whenthey have to put up with the whimsical nature ofcomputer technology and their teacher?senthusiasm, rather than mastery of its various insand outs.ReferencesSomers Harold (ed.).
2003.
Computers andTranslation: A Translator?s Guide.Amsterdam/Atlanta.
John Benjamins, pages XV,349.Learning Management Systems for the Rest of Us;An assessment of open source learningmanagement systems.
A research reportpresented by CUE (Corporate UniversityEnterprise, Inc.), May 1, 2003.Pym Anthony, Fallada Carmina, Biau Jos?
Ram?n,Orenstein Jill (eds).
2003.
Innovation and E-Learning in Translator Training.
Tarragona:Intercultural Studies Group.Pym Anthony.
E-Learning and TranslatorTraining.http://www.ice.urv.es/trans/future/cttt/research/elearning.pdfBowker Lynne, Pearson Jennifer.
2002.
Workingwith Specialized Language, A practical guide tousing corpora.
p.193, Routledge.Robinson Douglas.
1997.
Becoming a Translator,p.146, 192.
Routledge.Neunzig Wilhelm.
2002.
How to educate studentswithout coming face to face with them orInformation technologies in the teaching oftranslation on a distance-learning basis.http://www.fti.uab.es/tradumatica/papers/
