Qualitative Evaluation of Automatically Calculated AcceptionBased MLDBAree TeeraparbsereeGETA, CLIPS, IMAG385, rue de la Biblioth?queB.P.
53 - 38041 Grenoble Cedex 9, Francearee.teeraparbseree@imag.frAbstractIn the context of the Papillon project, whichaims at creating a multilingual lexical database(MLDB), we have developed Jeminie, an adapt-able system that helps automatically buildinginterlingual lexical databases from existing lex-ical resources.
In this article, we present a tax-onomy of criteria for evaluating a MLDB, thatmotivates the need for arbitrary compositionsof criteria to evaluate a whole MLDB.
A qualitymeasurement method is proposed, that is adapt-able to different contexts and available lexicalresources.1 IntroductionThe Papillon project1 aims at creating a cooper-ative, free, permanent, web-oriented environ-ment for the development and the consultationof a multilingual lexical database.
The macro-structure of Papillon is a set of monolingual dic-tionaries (one for each language) of word senses,called lexies, linked through a central set of in-terlingual links, called axies.
Axies, also calledinterlingual acceptions, are not concepts, butsimply interlingual links between lexies, motivedby translations found in existing dictionaries orproposed by the contributors.
Figure 1 repres-ents an interlingual database that links monolin-gual resources in three languages: French, Eng-lish and Japanese.
The interlingual acceptions(axies) are linked to lexies from each language.For instance, a lexie for the French word ?terre?is linked through an axie to two lexies for theEnglish words ?earth?
and ?soil?
and to a lexiefor the Japanese word ?tsuchi?.
Note that anaxie can be refined into a set of axies.
For in-stance, a lexie for the English word ?chair?
islinked through axie1 to two lexies for the Frenchwords ?fauteuil?
and ?chaise?.
Axie1 can be re-fined into two axies axie11 and axie12 as illus-trated in figure 2.1http://www.papillon-dictionary.org/axie3axie2axie1interlinguallexie1lexie2Japanese monolinguallexie3lexie2lexie1French monolingualterrelexie3lexie2lexie1lexie4earthlexie2lexie1landlexie1lexie2soilEnglish monolingualFigure 1: An example interlingual databaselexie1chaiselexie1lexie2fauteuilFrench monolinguallexie3lexie2lexie1English monolingualchairaxie11axie12axie1interlingualFigure 2: An example of refined axiesThis pivot macrostructure has been definedby (S?rasset, 1994) and experimented by (Blanc,1999) in the PARAX mockup.
The mi-crostructure of the monolingual dictionariesis the ?DiCo?
structure, which is a simpli-fication of Mel?cuk?s (Mel?cuk et al, 1995)DEC (Explanatory-Combinatorial Dictionary)designed by Polgu?re & Mel?cuk (Polgu?re,2000) to make it possible to construct large,detailed and principled dictionaries in tractabletime.The building method of the Papillon lexicaldatabase is based on one hand on 1) reusing ex-isting lexical resources, and on the other hand on2) contributions of volunteers working throughInternet.
In order to automate the first step,we have developed Jeminie (cf.
section 2), aflexible software system that helps create (semi-) automatically interlingual lexical databases.As there are several possible techniques for thecreation of axies that can be implemented inJeminie, it is necessary to evaluate and comparethese techniques to understand their strengthsand weaknesses and to identify possible im-provements.
This article proposes an approachfor the automatic qualitative evaluation of anautomatically created MLDB, for instance cre-ated by Jeminie, that relies on an evaluationsoftware system that adapts to the measuredMLDB.The next section of this article provides anoverview of the Jeminie system and the strategyit implements to create interlingual lexical data-bases.
The third section presents in detail eval-uation criteria for an MLDB.
The fourth sectiondescribes the evaluation system that we proposeand the metrics and criteria to evaluate the qual-ity of MLDB.
Last sections discuss the measure-ment strategy and conclude.2 JeminieJeminie is a software system that helps build-ing interlingual databases.
Its first function isto automatically extract information from ex-isting monolingual dictionaries, at least one foreach considered language, and to normalize itinto lexies.
The second function of Jeminieis to automatically link lexies that have thesame sense into axies.
The prominent feature ofJeminie is the ability to arbitrarily combine sev-eral axie creation techniques (Teeraparbseree,2003).An axie creation technique is an algorithmthat creates axies to link a set of existing lex-ies.
An algorithm may use existing additionallexical resources, such as: bilingual dictionaries,parallel corpora, synonym dictionaries, and ant-onym dictionaries.
Algorithms that do not relyon additional lexical resources consider only in-formation available from the monolingual data-bases, and include vectorial algorithms such ascalculating and comparing conceptual vectorsfor each lexie (Lafourcade, 2002).The use of one algorithm alone is not suf-ficient, in practice, to produce a good qualityMLDB.
For instance, using only one algorithmthat uses bilingual dictionaries, one obtains alexical database on the level of words but not onthe level of senses of words.
The Jeminie systemtackles this problem from a software engineeringpoint of view.
In Jeminie, an axie creation al-gorithm is implemented in a reusable softwaremodule.
Jeminie allows for arbitrary composi-tion of modules, in order to take advantage ofeach axie creation algorithm, and to create aMLDB of the best possible quality.
We call aMLDB production process, a sequence of exe-cutions of axie creation modules.
A process isspecified using a specific language that provideshigh-level abstractions.
The Jeminie architec-ture is divided into three layers.
The core layeris a library that is used to implement axie cre-ation modules at the module layer.
The pro-cesses interpreter starts the execution of mod-ules according to processes specified by linguists.The interpreter is developed using the core layer.Jeminie has been developed in Java followingobject-oriented design techniques and patterns.Each execution of an axie creation moduleprogressively contributes to create and filter theintermediate set of axies.
The final MLDB isobtained after the last module execution in aprocess.
The quality of a MLDB can be eval-uated either 1) on the final set of axies aftera whole process has been executed, or 2) onan intermediate set of of axies after a modulehas been executed in a process.
The modularityin MLDB creation provided by Jeminie there-fore allows for a wide range of quality evalu-ation strategies.
The next sections describe theevaluation criteria that we consider for MLDBscreated using Jeminie.3 Taxonomy of evaluation criteriaHere, we propose metrics for the qualitativeevaluation of multilingual lexical databases, andgive an interpretation for these measures.
Wepropose a classification of MLDB evaluation cri-teria into four classes, according to their nature.3.1 Golden-standard-based criteriaIn the domain of machine translation systems,an increasingly accepted way to measure thequality of a system is to compare the out-puts it produces with a set of reference trans-lations, considered as an approximation of agolden standard (Papineni et al, 2002; hovy etal., 2002).
By analogy, one can define a goldenstandard multilingual lexical database to com-pare to a database generated by a system such asJeminie, that both contain axies that link to lex-ies in the same monolingual databases.
Consid-ering that two axies are the same if they containlinks to exactly the same lexies, the quality of amachine generated multilingual lexical databasewould then be measured with two metrics adap-ted from machine translation system evaluation(Ahrenberg et al, 2000): recall and precision.Recall (coverage) is the number of axies thatare defined in both the generated database andin the golden standard database, divided by thenumber of axies in the golden standard.Precision is the number of axies that aredefined in both the generated database and inthe golden standard database, divided by thenumber of axies in the generated database.However, (Aimelet et al, 1999) highlightedthe limits of the golden standard approach, asit is often difficult to manually produce precisereference resources.
In the context of the Papil-lon project, a golden standard multilingual lex-ical database would deal with nine languages(English, French, German, Japanese, Lao, Thai,Malay, Vietnamese and Chinese), which makesit extremely difficult to produce.
Furthermore,since the produced multilingual lexical data-base in Papillon will define at least 40000 ax-ies, using heterogeneous resources, a comparisonwith a typical golden standard of only 100 ax-ies seems not relevant.
Instead of producing agolden standard for a whole multilingual lexicaldatabase, we propose to consider partial goldenstandard that concerns only a part of a MLDB.For instance, a partial golden standard can beproduced using a bilingual dictionary that con-cerns only two languages in the database.
Sev-eral partial golden standard MLDBs could beproduced using several bilingual dictionaries, inorder to cover all languages in the multilinguallexical database.3.2 Structural criteriaStructural evaluation criteria consider the stateof links between lexies and axies.
We define sev-eral general structural criteria:?
CLAave, the average number of axies linkedto each lexie.
Here, we consider only lexiesthat are linked to axies.
CLAave should be1.
If it is > 1, several axies have the samesense, i.e.
the produced MLDB is ambigu-ous.
If it is < 1, the produced MLDB maynot be precise enough, as it does not coverall the lexies.
Actually, we should also con-sider the standard deviation of that num-ber, because a MLDB would be quite bad ifCLAave = 2 for half the lexies and CLAave= 0 for the rest, although the global valueof CLAave is 1.?
for each language, ADLlang, the ratio of thenumber of axies to the number of lexies inthat language.
If it is too low, the axiesmay represent fuzzy acceptions.
If it is toohigh, axies may overlap, i.e.
several axiesmay represent the same acception.
Typ-ically, it should be about 1.2 (cf.
largeMLDB such as EDR - the Electronic Dic-tionary Research project in Japan).
Thismetrics should be calculated for each lan-guage independently, because the numberof lexies may significantly vary between twolanguages, making this metrics irrelevant ifcalculated using the total number of lexiesand axies in a database.?
CALave, the average number of lexies ofeach language linked to each axie.
It shouldbe about 1.2.
If it is > 1 for a language,axies may represent a fuzzy acception orthere is synonymy, as illustrated in figure3.
If it is < 1 for a language, axies may notcover that language precisely.
Note thatCALave may help us locate places in the?axie?
set where an axie is refined by oneor more axies.
Each CALave may then befar from CALave global, but their averageshould still be near CALave global for theconsidered set.lexie1 (place)lexie2 (fish)lexie2 (fish)lexie3 (measure)axie1lexie1 (place)French monolingualinterlinguallieubarFigure 3: Example of two lexies that are syn-onym in the same language and linked to thesame axieSuch metrics are complementary and can eas-ily be measured, and are among the rare metricsthat concern a whole MLDB.
They, however, donot help evaluating the quality of links betweenaxies and lexies in terms of semantics.3.3 Human-based criteriaThis class of evaluation criteria is based on themeasurement of the number and nature of thecorrections made by a linguist on a part of aproduced MLDB.
For instance, one can measurethe ratio of the number of corrections made bya linguist, to the total number of links betweenthe considered axies and lexies.
The closer theratio is to zero, the higher is the quality of themultilingual lexical database.
A high correctionratio implies a low MLDB quality.However, this class of criteria assumes thatthe produced MLDB are homogeneous.
In thecontext of Papillon, the database will be pro-duced using several techniques and heterogen-eous lexical resources, which limits the relevanceof such criteria.This approach is similar to the golden-standard approach described above, althoughthe golden-standard approach is automatic.3.4 Non-resource-based semanticcriteriaIn this class, criteria evaluate the quality of thesemantics of the links between axies and lex-ies, and do not rely on additional lexical re-sources.
One of the metrics that we consideris the distance between conceptual vectors oflexies linked to the same axie.
A conceptualvector for a lexie is calculated by projecting theconcepts associated with this lexie into a vectorspace, where each dimension corresponds to aleaf concept of a thesaurus (Lafourcade, 2002).The concepts associated with a lexie are identi-fied by analyzing the lexie definition.
The lowerthe distance between the conceptual vectors oftwo lexies is, the closer are those lexies (word-senses).
As a metrics, we therefore consider theaverage conceptual distance between each pairof lexies linked to the same axie.
The lowerthat value is, the better the MLDB is, in termsof the semantics of the links between axies andlexies.
However, a reliable computation of con-ceptual vectors relies on the availability preciseand rich definitions in lexies, and on large lexicalresources to compute initial vectors, which aredifficult to gather for all languages in practice.3.5 DiscussionAs a more general conceptual framework, wedefine a classification of evaluation criteria alongfour dimensions, or characteristics:?
automation: a criterion is either automat-ically evaluated, or relies on linguists.?
scope: a criterion evaluates either a part ofa MLDB, or a whole MLDB.?
semantics: a criterion considers either thestructure of a MLDB, or the semantics ofthe links between axies and lexies.?
resource: a criterion relies on additionallexical resources, or not.Multilingual lexical databases such as Papilloncan be used in different contexts, e.g.
in ma-chine translation systems or in multilingual in-formation retrieval systems.
The criteria usedfor evaluating a multilingual lexical databaseshould be adapted to the context in which thedatabase is used.
For instance, if a multilin-gual lexical database is very precise and good atFrench and Japanese acceptions, but not goodat other languages, it should be judged as a goodlexical database by users who evaluate a usageof French and Japanese only, but it should bejudged as a bad multilingual lexical databaseglobally.Since the Papillon database generated byJeminie will not be tied to specific usages, thedatabase production system must not imposepredefined evaluation criteria.
We propose in-stead to allow for the use of any criterion at anypoint in the four dimensions above and for arbit-rary composition of evaluation criteria to adaptto different contexts.
However, since we aim atperforming an automatic evaluation, we do notconsider human-based criteria, although humanevaluation is certainly valid.
Our approach issimilar to the approach chosen in Jeminie forthe creation of axies.
We tackle this problem ofcriteria composition from a software engineeringpoint of view, by using object oriented program-ming techniques to design and implement mod-ular and reusable criterion software modules.4 Adaptable evaluation systemBy analogy with the Jeminie modules that im-plement algorithms to create axies, we proposea system that allows for the implementation inJava of reusable software modules that imple-ment algorithms to measure MLDB.
In this sys-tem, we consider that each criterion is imple-mented as a module.
Criterion modules are ofa different kind, and are developed differentlyfrom Jeminie axie creation modules.
As a con-vention, we define that each criterion modulereturns a numeric value as the result of a meas-urement, noted Qi.
The higher that value, thebetter the evaluated database.4.1 Axie-creation-related criteriaAs the strategy we have chosen in Jeminie is tocombine complementary axie creation modulesto produce axies in a multilingual lexical data-base, we consider that each axie creation mod-ule encapsulates its own quality criterion that ittends to optimize, explicitly or implicitly.
Sinceeach module implements an algorithm to decidewhether to create an axie, we consider that suchan algorithm can also be used as a criterion todecide whether an existing axie is correct.
Anaxie creation module can not be reused as is as acriterion module, however its decision algorithmcan be easily reimplemented in a criterion mod-ule.
For each algorithm, we define the followingfour metrics, adapted from (B?d?carrax, 1989):A1 the number of internal adjustments, i.e.
thenumber of axies that would be created ac-cording to the algorithm, and that have ac-tually been created.A2 the number of external adjustments, i.e.
thenumber of axies that would not be createdaccording to the algorithm, and that haveactually not been created.E1 the number of internal errors, i.e.
the num-ber of axies that would not be created ac-cording to the algorithm, and that have ac-tually been created.E2 the number of external errors, i.e.
the num-ber of axies that would be created accordingto the algorithm, and that have actually notbeen created.For each algorithm, the quality criteria are tomaximize A1 + A2, to minimize E1 + E2, or tomaximize (A1 +A2) ?
(E1 + E2).Resource-based algorithmsFor instance, following are the definitions of A1,A2, E1 and E2 for the axie creation algorithmthat uses a bilingual dictionary between lan-guages X and Y:A1 the number of pairs of lexies of languagesX and Y that are linked to the same axieand which words are mutual translationsaccording to the bilingual dictionary.A2 the number of pairs of lexies of languages Xand Y that are not linked to the same axieand which words are not mutual transla-tions according to the bilingual dictionary.E1 the number of pairs of lexies of languages Xand Y that are linked to the same axie andwhich words are not mutual translations ac-cording to the bilingual dictionary.E2 the number of pairs of lexies of languagesX and Y that are not linked to the sameaxie and which words are mutual transla-tions according to the bilingual dictionary.However, resources used by resource-based cre-ation algorithms have a number of entries thatis often significantly lower than the number oflexies and axies in a multilingual lexical data-base.
For instance, the number of translationentries in a bilingual dictionary is typically lowerthan the number of available monolingual accep-tions in the source language, because that set oflexies may be constructed by combining a setof rich monolingual dictionaries.
For instance,our monolingual database for French containsabout 21000 headwords and 45000 lexies ex-tracted from many definition dictionaries suchas Hachette, Larousse, etc.
Our monolingualdatabase for English contains about 50000 head-words and 90000 lexies extracted from EnglishWordNet 1.7.1.
However, the bilingual French-English dictionary that we use is based on theFeM2 multilingual dictionary, and defines only15000 French headwords.lexical database number of headwordsFrench monolingual 21000English monolingual 50000FeM 15000Table 1: Comparing the number of entries inmonolingual lexical databases with the numberof entries in the multilingual lexical databaseAccording to the example above, measuringthe number of external adjustments A2 and in-ternal errors E1 is therefore not relevant.
Forexample, a criterion can not decide if the wordsof a French lexie and of an English lexie that arelinked together, are translations of each other,since the bilingual dictionary used is not preciseenough.
We therefore propose a simplified qual-ity criterion for resource-based algorithms, thatis to maximize A1and to minimize E2.2French-English-Malay dictionary http://www-clips.imag.fr/geta/services/femVectorial algorithmsThis measure can also be adapted to the com-parison of the conceptual distance between lex-ies:A1 the number of pairs of lexies that are linkedto the same axie and which conceptual vec-tor distance is below a given threshold.A2 the number of pairs of lexies that are notlinked to the same axie and which concep-tual vector distance is above the threshold.E1 the number of pairs of lexies that are linkedto the same axie and which conceptual vec-tor distance is above the threshold.E2 the number of pairs of lexies that are notlinked to the same axie and which concep-tual vector distance is below the threshold.This algorithm is not limited by the size ofan additional lexical resource, and can decidewhether any pair of lexies should be linked ornot.
It is therefore possible to evaluate A2 andE1 in addition to A1 and E2.SynthesisWe specify that the value returned by such axie-creation-related criteria is calculated as Qi =A1?E2 for resource-based criteria, and as Qi =(A1+A2)?
(E1+E2) for any other axie-creation-related criteria, as those formulas reflect boththe number of adjustments and the number oferrors.4.2 Structural criteriaAs described above, structural criteria considerthe structure of each axie in a whole multilin-gual lexical database.
We propose to implementsuch algorithms also as modules in our system.For example, we define one criterion module tocalculate the following value:Qi =10.01 +?????
?1 ?nblexies?k = 1nblinkedaxiesknblexies?????
?where nblexies is the total number of lexies inthe database, and nblinkedaxiesk is the numberof axies linked to a lexie k. Qi is comprisedbetween 0 and 100.4.3 Global criteriaA global quality value Q can be calculated asthe sum of each quality value measured by eachmeasurement module.
The choice of the meas-urement modules corresponds to a given usagecontext of the evaluated database, and the posit-ive weight of each metric module in this contextis specified as a factor in the sum:Q =nbmodules?i = 1weighti ?
QiThe objective is to maximize Q.
The weightfor each module can be chosen to emphasize theimportance of selected criteria in the context ofevaluation.
For instance, when specifically eval-uating the quality of axies between French andEnglish lexies, the weight for a bilingual EN-FR dictionary-based criterion module could behigher than the weights for the other criterionmodules.
In addition, the values returned bydifferent criterion modules are not normalized.It is therefore necessary to adapt the weights tocompensate the difference of scale between Qivalues.5 Evaluation methodOne can evaluate the quality of a MLDB afterit has been created or enhanced through the ex-ecution of an axie creation process by Jeminie.Such a quality measure can be used by linguiststo decide whether to execute another axie cre-ation process to enhance the quality of the data-base, or to stop if the database has reached thedesired quality.
The creation of an axie databaseis therefore iterative, alternating executions ofaxie creation processes, quality evaluations, anddecisions.It should be noted that the execution of anaxie creation process may not always imply amonotonous increase of the measured quality.Since axie creation algorithms may not be mu-tually coherent, the order of executions of mod-ules, in a process or in several consecutively ex-ecuted processes, has an impact on the meas-ured global quality.
More precisely, the addi-tional resources used by axie creation modules,and/or by quality criteria modules, may containerrors and be mutually incoherent.
The execu-tion of a resource-based axie creation moduleusing a resource R1, can cause a drop of theA1 value and an increase of the E2 value meas-ured by a resource-based criterion module usinga resource R2 incoherent with R1.
This may sig-nificantly decrease the evaluated global quality.The database may however be actually of a bet-ter quality if R2 has a poor quality and R1 has agood quality.
This highlights the need for goodquality resources for both creating the databaseand evaluating its quality.Another problem is that the additional lex-ical resources used, such as bilingual dictionar-ies, generally provide information at the level ofwords, not at the level of senses.
It is thus ne-cessary to complement these resource-based axiecreation modules, for instance by using vectorialmodules.
Moreover, it is necessary to developnew algorithms to increase the internal consist-ence of an axie database, for example one thatmerges all the axies that link to the same lexie.6 Example processesFigure 4 illustrates the two sets of axies createdby a process A and a process B to link to lexiesretrieved from a French and an English mono-lingual dictionaries.
Process A consists of theexecution of only module Mbidict, that uses abilingual dictionary FR-EN extracted from FeMdictionary and partially illustrated in figure 5.The set of axies produced by process A consistsof axie1 to axie7.
Process B consists of the exe-cution of the same module Mbidict as in processA, then of a module Mvect that implements aconceptual vector comparison algorithm for fil-tering some bad links.
Process B produces onlyaxie1, axie4, axie5 and axie7.
Note that processesA and B were hand-simulated in this example.lexie1banquelexie2 (person)lexie1 (fruit)avocatlexie1admirableFrench monolinguallexie2 (river)lexie1 (office)banklexie1advocatelexie1avocadolexie1admirableEnglish monolingualaxie7axie6axie5axie4axie3axie2axie1link created by process Blink created by process AFigure 4: Axies created by processes A and BThe two same criterion modules are used toevaluate both processes: 1) an axie-creation-related criterion module using the same bilin-gual dictionary as the one used in the axiecreation modules in processes, and calculatingAdmirable (a.
)Avocat (n.m.)Avocat (n.m.)Admirable (a.
)Advocate (n.)Avocado (n.)Bank (n.)Banque (n.f.
)Bilingual Dictionary FR?EN(FeM) (Le Robert & Collins)Bilingual Dictionary EN?FRBank (n.)Bank (n.)Admirable (a.
)Advocate (n.)Avocado (n.)Banque (n.f.
)Rive (n.f.
)Admirable (a.
)Avocat (n.m.)Avocat (n.m.)Figure 5: Bilingual dictionariesa Qbidict value, and 2) the structural criterionmodule described in section 4.2, and calculatinga Qstruct value.
The global evaluated qualityvalue for the set of axies created by each pro-cess is:Q = ?
?
Qbidict + ?
?
QstructThe actually evaluated values of Qbidict andQstruct, and of Q for several combinations of ?and ?, are shown in table 2.process A process BQbidict 7 1Qstruct 1.76 8.25Q (?=1, ?=1) 8.76 9.25Q (?=1, ?=2) 10.52 17.5Q (?=2, ?=1) 15.76 10.25Table 2: The results of qualitative evaluationsAxie creation module Mbidict considers onlywords, but not senses of words.
It therefore cre-ates several axies linked to each lexie, some ofwhich are not correct because they do not dis-tinguish between the lexies of a given transla-tion word.
In process B, module Mvect is ex-ecuted to suppress links and axies that are se-mantically incorrect.
The structural quality, asgiven in Qstruct, is therefore better with processB than with process A, and intuitively the globalquality has actually increased.
However, execut-ing module Mvect reduces the quality from thepoint of view of a bilingual translation that con-siders only words and not acceptions, as givenin Qbidict.This illustrates that not all quality criteriashould be maximized to attain the best possiblequality.
Weight factors for each criterion mod-ule should be carefully chosen, according to thescale of the values returned by each module, andto the linguistic objectives.
For instance, as il-lustrated in table 2, setting a weight too highfor the bilingual translation criterion lets theevaluated global quality decrease, while it hasactually increased.7 ConclusionThis article presents the problem of the auto-matic creation and evaluation of interlingualmultilingual lexical databases (MLDB), in thecontext of the Papillon project.
It describes theJeminie software system, that we are develop-ing, for the automatic creation of interlingualacceptions (axies).
It can adapt to different con-texts, e.g.
to different lexical resources and dif-ferent languages, by providing a means to arbit-rarily compose axie creation modules.We have proposed a taxonomy of criteria forthe automatic evaluation of a MLDB.
One cri-teria alone is not sufficient to significantly eval-uate the quality of a whole database.
We there-fore propose a method for the arbitrary compos-ition of evaluation criteria, following the sameprinciples as the Jeminie system.The proposed method will be implemented ina software framework, along with a library ofmodules that implement a variety of evaluationcriteria, and that can be freely composed.
Thisframework will be integrated with Jeminie, inorder to allow for the automatic evaluation of aMLDB during its creation.ReferencesLars Ahrenberg, Magnus Merkel, Anna SagvallHein, and Jorg Tiedemann.
2000.
Evalu-ation of word alignment systems.
In Proceed-ing of LREC?2000, pages 1255?1261, Athens,Greece.Elisabeth Aimelet, Veronika Lux, Corinne Jean,and Fr?d?rique Segond.
1999.
WSD evalu-ation and the looking-glass.
In Proceedings ofTALN?1999, Carg?se, France.Chantal B?d?carrax.
1989.
Classification auto-matique en analyse relationnelle : la quadri-d?composition et ses applications.
thesis, Uni-versit?
Paris 6.Etienne Blanc.
1999.
PARAX-UNL: A largescale hypertextual multilingual lexical data-base.
In Proceedings of 5th Natural LanguageProcessing Pacific Rim Symposium, pages507?510, Beijing.
Tsinghua University Press.Eduard hovy, Margaret King, and AndreiPopescu-Belis.
2002.
Principles of context-based machine translation evaluation.
Ma-chine Translation, 17(1):43?75.Mathieu Lafourcade.
2002.
Automatically pop-ulating acception lexical databases throughbilingual dictionaries and conceptual vectors.In Papillon?2002 Seminar, Tokyo, Japan.Igor Mel?cuk, Andr?
Clas, and Alain Polgu?re.1995.
Introduction ?
la lexicologie explicativeet combinatoire.
Duculot, Louvain-la-Neuve.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward,and Wei-Jing Zhu.
2002.
BLEU: a methodfor automatic evaluation of machine transla-tion.
In Proceeding of ACL?2002, pages 311?318, Philadelphia.Alain Polgu?re.
2000.
Towards a theoret-ically motivated general public dictionaryof semantic derivations and collocations forFrench.
In Proceedings of EURALEX?2000,pages 517?527, Stuttgart.Gilles S?rasset.
1994.
Interlingual lexical or-ganisation for multilingual lexical databasein NADIA.
In Proceedings of COLING?94,volume 1/2, pages 278?282, Kyoto, Japan.Aree Teeraparbseree.
2003.
Jeminie: A flexiblesystem for the automatic creation of inter-lingual database.
In Papillon?2003 Seminar,Sapporo, Japan.
