Language Resources and LocalisationReinhard SCHLocalisation ResearchDepartment of Computer Science anUniversity of LLimerick, IrReinhard.SchalAbstractLocalisation is one of the fastest growingindustrial sectors in the digital world.
Sincethe mid-eighties, the role of localisation hasdeveloped and changed dramatically.Localisation has been redefined as theprovision of services and technologies for themanagement of multilinguality across theglobal information flow.
This paper discussesthe need for easily accessible dedicatedlanguage resources for localisation, provides apractical example of what can be achievedwith appropriate language resources in thecontext of localisation and proposes a strategyto acquire, maintain and make them easilyaccessible.1 IntroductionSince its emergence in the mid 1980s,localisation has largely been defined as thelinguistic and cultural adaptation of products forspecific locales.
Over the past 20 years,Localisation has become one of the engines drivingthe development of the multilingual informationsociety and probably the first industrial sectorwhere language resources have been used widelyand consistently on large-scale commercialprojects.Localisation professionals must prepare verylarge amounts of digital content simultaneously fordifferent markets in acceptable quality and ataffordable costs.
This is only possible with thesupport of language resources, such as written andspoken corpora, translation memories andterminology databases, as well as the appropriatesoftware tools for the acquisition, preparation,collection, management, customisation and use ofthese resources.In the following paragraphs, we will provide anoverview of the current state of the localisationindustry and its requirements, and focus on thoseaspects of the localisation process where thesuccessful use of language resources is crucial for ?LERCentre (LRC)d Information Systems (CSIS)imerickelander@ul.iethe timely delivery of multilingual digital content.We will describe some of the most widely usedlanguage resources in localisation.
Finally, we willdescribe major current research efforts relating tolanguage resources and localisation, and highlightthe opportunity for the establishment of aLanguage Resources Centre for Localisation.2 The changing face of localisationIn this section, we will provide somebackground information which will help to explainthe reasons for the changing needs of thelocalisation industry, particularly in relation tolanguage resources.2.1 Growing language populations createcommercial opportunitiesAny content made available on the digitalnetworks (e.g.
the internet) becomes instantlyavailable to millions of people across the globe.
Tomake this content accessible, however, it needs tobe localised.
In today?s cyberspace, posting digitalcontent in just one language is not sufficientanymore.Of a total online language population of 680million in September 2003, only 35.5% spokeEnglish as a mother tongue, but 25% spokeChinese, Japanese or Korean (CJK) and anotherSource: Global Reach (global-reach.biz/globstats)Figure 1: Online language population25% Spanish, German, French, Italian andPortuguese.In this scenario, localisation is a pre-requisite forthe provision of equal access to the digitalinformation society independently of anindividual?s cultural and linguistic background ortheir geographical location and, at the same time,offers enormous business potential.
In addition, itis evident that localised digital content(applications and systems) is a pre-requisite for thepreservation of linguistic and cultural diversity inthe digital world.According to US-analysts Allied BusinessIntelligence, the world-wide market for translationand software or web localisation is growing fromUS$11 billion (1999) to US$20 billion this year.However, although much digital content iscreated in Asia and Europe, 95% of localiseddigital content still originates in the USA.LocalisationVectors of scalability and growthGeography / LanguagesContentMedium of deliveryEuropeDocumentsManualsAsiaGlobalCD-ROMOnlinePure Internet-basedGeneraltechnicalAnycontentCultureSymbolsRightsValuesFigure 3: Vectors of scalability and growth2.2 Localisation services ?
redefinedWhile politicians all over the world want tomake Information Society Technologies (IST)available and accessible in the language and localeof the people they represent, software and digitalcontent publishers need to respond to the demandsof their customers by supporting a wide variety oflocal languages and cultures in their products.Since its emergence in the mid-1980s, thelocalisation industry has taken on the task ofresponding to these requirements of business andpolitics.
Initially seen as just one of many servicesuppliers to the general IT sector, it is now takingon a more independent role translating the globaldigital content challenge into new business andsocial opportunities.
It is the localisation industrythat can enable the open, pluralist, user-friendlyand inclusive multilingual and cross-culturalinformation society.The dramatic change in the role and the funtionof localisation has happened in parallel with thedevelopment and changes of the IT and contentpublishing sectors in general, now all convergingin the digital world.The businesses of computing (hardware,software and services), communications(telephony, cable and satellite), and content(publishing, entertainment, advertising) are comingtogether to create the new digital media industry.New media publishing on the Internet combinescomputing, entertainment, broadcasting, music andvideo production.The issues faced by a wide variety of formerlyindependent, unconnected traditional contentpublishing industries joining in the digital worldinclude the need to handle, control and translatelarger amounts of text than ever before into an everincreasing variety of languages in parallel with thedevelopment of the original version, within a tightbudget and according to strict quality guidelines aswell as the need to adapt ?
not just translate ?their products to the culture and locale of the targetmarket.IT provides the framework for the convergenceof these activities.
The localisation industryprovides the framework for the convergence of themultilingual aspects of these activities.Localisation becomes the catalyst for electronicmultilingual production and publishing.On the background of these developments, theconcept of localisation is being redefined as theprovision of services and technologies for themanagement of multilinguality across the globalinformation flow.Timely and cost effective delivery of highquality digital content to the global marketplacehas become the major growth area for thelocalisation industry.
It opened the relativelynarrow software localisation industry to a widerrange of players who are broadening traditionalroles within the software localisation industry.Yet, the localisation industry does not haveaccess to a robust infrastructure comprisingMultilingual software = Multilingual information societyPreservation oflinguistic diversity,cultural heritageDevelopment  ofbusiness growth,competitive advantageInclusionof all countries and sections of societyin the global villagePolitical focus Business focusFigure 2: Multilingual software and Infosocietylanguage data and tools, which are a prerequisitefor the timely and cost effective creation anddeployment of multilingual, cross-cultural andmultimodal digital content.
There is an urgent needfor the development of the structural basis to makea sustained internationalisation and localisationeffort possible, especially for less widely spokenlanguages.2.3 Localisation researchThe new role of the localisation industry alsocreates new opportunities and requirements forresearch and development.How can the business requirement for areduction in production cost, combined with fastthroughput time and high quality be satisfied in thecontext of localisation?One answer to this question is by access toadequate language resources, tools and standards.Re-use of already translated material, translationrecycling, can not only speed-up translation, it canalso at least help to ensure a more consistent use ofterminology and thus increase the quality of thetranslation.Access to adequate terminology tools andresources can also help to achieve bettertranslations at a lower cost.To make appropriate use of these technologiesand resources, their role must be assessed in thecontext of localisation.3 Language resources and localisationLanguage data or resources have been defined asa set of speech or language data and descriptions inmachine readable form, used e.g.
for building,improving or evaluating natural language andspeech algorithms or systems, or, as core resourcesfor the software localisation and language servicesindustries, for language studies, electronicpublishing, international transactions, subject-areaspecialists and end users.Examples of language resources are written andspoken corpora, computational lexicons,terminology databases, speech collection andprocessing, etc.
Basic software tools are alsoimportant for the acquisition, preparation,collection, management, customisation and use ofthese language resources and other resources.
(see:http://www.elra.info/article.php3?id_article=35,consulted May 2004)Currently, there are no large collections oflanguage data relevant to localisation easilyaccessible.
While individual digital contentdevelopers, especially large multinationals, havevery large collections of multilingual language dataavailable and use them in a highly effective andefficient way, these data collections are notavailable to the localisation community in general.Large multinational content publishers, however,have shown how the efficient use of languageresources can help to achieve astonishingproduction results leading to what some havedescribed as the translation factory.?
Start: mid-eighties?
Packaged softward -> multimedia -> content?
Ireland: the world centre (certainly the European centre)?
95% of source orginates in the USA?
International market more important for pubishers than domestic markets?
MS: >60%, >US$5b ., >1,000 projects/year, Ireland: US$1.9b revenue (2001)R e v e n u e  p e r  S e r v ic e - S e g m e n t( in  U S $ m )05 0 01 0 0 01 5 0 02 0 0 02 5 0 03 0 0 02 0 0 0 2 0 0 1 2 0 0 2 2 0 0 3 2 0 0 4 2 0 0 5S o f tw a r e  L o c a lis a t io n W e b  L o c a lis a t io n T r a n s la t io n In te r p r e ta t io nSource: IDC, Worldwidc Globalization and Localization Services Market Forecast and Analysis, 2000-2005, 2001, www.idc.comFigure 4: Revenue per service segment3.1.1 Case studyTony Jewtushenko, Tools Manager withOracle?s Worldwide Translation Group, presentedthe following example of the use of languageresources in localisation at the LRC?s 2003 AnnualLocalisation Conference.Project constraints?
4m wordcount software strings;?
30 languages simultaneous release;?
13k localisable files;?
Localisation group in Dublin; 5,000 peopleworld-wide distributed development team.Objectives?
24/7, 100% automated process ?
noexceptions?
Translation in parallel with development?
Translation begins at code check-in?
Translation ?on demand?
?
no more ?bigproject?
modelSolution: the translation factory metrics?
Current throughput: 100,000 languagecheck-ins per month?
2 million files per month?
98% of words leverage?
Average time to process a file: 45 seconds?
Fully scalable ?add-a-box model??
Simpship of all 30 languages?
International version testing before USrelease?
Reduced no.
of release engineers (20->2)resulting in US$20m saving per year?
Positive ROI within 1 yearIt is important to keep in mind that Oracle is oneof the world?s leading digital publishers and runsone of the most sophisticated internationalisationand localisation operations in the world.
Oracle isalso centrally involved in the development of twokey standards under the umbrella of OASIS, theXML-based Localisation Exchange Format(XLIFF) and the Translation Web Services Group(TWS), which, combined, have the potential tofundamentally change not just the way localisationis done by Oracle, but by every digital publisherbringing its contents to the global market.3.1.2 Support for SMEs and researchersThere are no good reasons why the work of otherorganisations, such as small and medium sizedenterprises (SME?s) and research organisations,should not benefit from the intelligent use oflinguistic resources, including language data, toolsand standards.
While large organisation cateringfor the main language markets have access to thefinances necessary for the development andmaintenance of this linguistic infrastructure,smaller organisations and those catering forfinancially less significant markets will need thesupport of a shared and widely supportedinfrastructure.This infrastructure would need to cover:?
Multimodal digital content in source andtarget languages;?
Monolingual and multilingualterminology;?
Translation memories.3.2 Linguistic toolsLinguistic tools are seen by the LocalisationIndustry Standards Assocication (LISA) generallyas still an emerging sector (Localization IndustryPrimer) although, according to LISA, enormousprogress has been made over the past years in thearea and a number of productivity enhancing toolsare now in use, without which the localisationindustry as we know it today would not be able tooperate.3.2.1 Current situationThe issues, which are addressed by linguistictools and technologies answer some of the centralquestions asked by localisation professionalsaround terminology handling and updateprocessing.Terminology handling?
Where can translators find standardterminology in multiple languages??
How can multilingual terminology beprocessed so that it can be made readilyavailable and easily accessible??
Are there feasible models and mechanismsto maintain and constantly updatemultilingual terminologys so thatmodifications can be made accessible totranslators instantaneously??
How can changes in previously agreedterminology be automatically integrated inalready translated text??
How can translated texts automatically bechecked for the correct and consistent useof terminology?Update processing?
How can versions of the same sourcematerial be compared against each otherautomatically??
How can overlaps be identified, markedand analysed??
How can source and target languagecontent be compared and aligned??
How can already translated text fragments(exact or fuzzy matches) automatically beused for the generation of a new targetversion??
How can the limitations of TranslationMemory Systems be overcome?The linguistic tools and technologies mostwidely needed and developed for use in theinternationalisation and localisation effort include:?
Terminology management systems, whichaid the collection and use of specialisedvocabularies;?
Translation memories, which are designedto facilitate the reuse of previoustranslations;?
Machine translation, which provides actuallinguistic analysis and conversion of textsfrom source language into the desiredtarget language;?
User interface and user assistance visualtranslation environments, which aidtranslators to interactively work withcompiled and uncompiled resource files ina variety of formats;?
Language data analysis tools, whichrapidly compare and analyse old and newsource material;?
Sophisticated matching tools leveragingmaterial from previous projects;?
Natural language parsers;?
Extract-and-Insert tools;?
Parsers for natural language digital contentin compiled sources.While large and sophisticated localisationoperations have easy access to relevant linguisticthird party technologies and in-house tools, smalleroperations often do not.
Reviewing the largevariety of sophisticated tools and technologiesavailable on the market, they often shy away fromthe purchase and implementation of tools becauseof the perceived high-risk factor attached to theirdeployment.3toa ond oft ona  oft theL ndS edEns,s onA ofLtcdtipsstii3eaApiwtpdsow3.3.1 Current situationA large number of standards relevant tolinguistic resources in the context of localisationhave been published by a number of organisationsidentified by LISA as being involved in thedevelopment of standards.
Among these are:International Standards Organisation (ISO) ?This is a network of national standards institutesfrom 140 countries working in partnership withinternational organizations, governments, industry,business and consumer representatives.
The ISOsees itself as a bridge between public and privatesectors.
.2.2 ImpactA support infrastructure must be put into placellow smaller players involved in localisatiirect and online access to the widest varietyools and technologies and detailed informatibout these.
A first step in the implementationhis infrastructure has been the establishment ofocalisation Tools and Technology Laboratory ahowcased (LOTS) as part of the European-fundLECT project.Cooperating with leading industry associatiouch as the Globalisation and Localisatissociation (GALA) and The Instituteocalisation Professionals (TILP), and building onhe expertise available within the ELECTonsortium, a sophisticated online library withetailed background information on each of theools available was prepared and published.The detailed LOTS-sponsored reviews ofndividual tools and technologies will allowotential users of linguistic tools and technologies,pecifically those working in small and mediumized enterprises, to base their decision on whichool to use for their particular localisation needs onndependent, well-researched and easily accessiblenformation..3 StandardsStandards played a central role in thestablishment of the localisation industry?s firstssociation, the Localisation Industry Standardsssociation (LISA).
Very early on, localisationrofessionals recognised that the successfulmplementation of widely recognised standardsould lower the cost of localisation, shorten theime necessary for the successful completion ofrojects and increase the quality of the productselivered to international audiences.The following graphic visualises the roletandards for linguistic resources play in theverall localisation process (source: i18n Inc.:ww.i18n.ca):?
Technical Committee 37 - Terminologyand other language resources?
ISO 639 - Language Codes?
Terminology Data Categories - ISO 12620?
MARTIF - ISO 12200 - Machine-readableterminology interchange format?
Terminology Work - ISO 704?
Vocabulary - ISO 1087-1 - Part 1: Theoryand Application?
Vocabulary - ISO 1087-2 - Part 2:Computer Applications?
Terminological Markup Framework - ISODIS 16642?
ISO639-1 : New ISO standard for theidentification of languages namesLocalisation Industry Standards Association(LISA) ?
This organisation has published a varietyof standards relevant to the use of languageresources in localistion:?
TMX the exchange standard fortranslation memory data between toolsand/or translation vendors aiming at littleor no loss of critical data during theprocess.?
TBX the open XML-based standardformat for terminological data.?
OLIF the XML-compliant standard forterminology offering support for naturallanguage processing (NLP) systems, suchas machine translation, by providingcoverage of a wide and detailed range oflinguistic features.Figure 5: Standards in the localisationOASIS ?
This international, not-for-profitconsortium designs and develops industry standardspecifications for interoperability based on XML.Two of these have been developed specificallywith localisation in mind:?
XLIFF ?
the XML-based LocalisationInterchange File Format?
TWS ?
the Translation Vendor WebServices StandardThe Free Standards Group OpenInternationalization Initiative (Openi18n.org) ?This non-profit initiative aims to accelerate the useand acceptance of open source technologiesthrough the application, development andpromotion of interoperability standards.Termnet ?
The International Network forTerminology promotes co-operation in the field ofterminology internationally, so as to stimulate thedevelopment of the terminology and knowledgemarket, as well as terminology proper.
Termnetpublishes terminologically relevant data in bothprinted and computerised forms and thus makes itaccessible to a large circle of users.Unicode ?
The Unicode Consortium is a non-profit organization founded to develop, extend andpromote the use of the Unicode Standard, whichspecifies the representation of text in modernsoftware products and standards.
The membershipof the consortium represents a broad spectrum ofcorporations and organisations in the computer andinformation processing industry.
Membership inthe Unicode Consortium is open to organisationsand individuals anywhere in the world who supportthe Unicode Standard and wish to assist in itsextension and implementation.
Unicode?s mostvisible activities include the holding of theInternationalisation and Unicode conference twicea year.WC3 ?
This consortium develops interoperabletechnologies (specifications, guidelines, software,and tools) to lead the Web to its full potential as aforum for information, commerce, communication,and collective understanding.3.3.2 ImpactCurrently, there is not central repository ofstandards relevant to the development andmaintenance of linguistic resources for localisationcomprising language data, tools and standardswhich is easily accessible to the localisationcommunity.
Furthermore, and equally important,no independent organisation or consortium iscurrently set up to demonstrate the effective andefficient use of linguistic resources in a localisationenvironment following industry-standardapproaches and using state-of-the-art technologies.4 The Localisation Tools, Technologies andResources Laboratory4.1 The RationaleThe establishment of the Localisation Tools andTechnologies Laboratory and Showcase (LOTS) aspart of the European-funded ELECT project wasthe first attempt to make a repository of languageresources covering linguistic data, tools andstandards available and easily accessible.Although LOTS is located at the LocalisationResearch Centre in Limerick, it is also availableonline via www.electonline.org.In one location, LOTS provides different usergroups with access to the widest possible range oftools and corresponding resources.Figure 6: The LOTS online desktop?
Students, Trainers can quickly get anoverview of tools, technologies andresources relevant to localisation.?
Researchers can experiment with state-of-the-art technologies and resourcescomparing the results of their effortswith commercial offerings.?
Professionals can test whether particularapplications are appropriate to covertheir specific needs.?
The LRC uses the facilities available inLOTS to verify standards andinteroperability issues.4.2 Tools and TechnologiesLOTS was established with the support of thelocalisation tools and technology developers.
Allthe resources available to LOTS have been givento the LRC by their owners free-of-charge.Twenty-four companies, resprenting the majorityof localisation tools and technologies worldwide,have so far contributed to LOTS.Figure 7: The LOTS laboratoryThe LRC has estimated that the laboratorycontains tools and technologies worth more than?350,000.These are accessible on a large number of PCsrunning in LOTS under a variety of operatingsystems in more than a dozen different languages.They are also available online on the LOTSserver which brings LOTS directly to the desktopof users anywhere in the world.4.3 ResourcesIn addition to the tools and technologies, theresources available on the LOTS server and in thelaboratory include the most widely used fileformats and standards.While tools and technologies are well covered inLOTS, the coverage of corresponding resources asused by these tools could be improved.The LRC is working with content andtechnology developers on agreements which willallow a wider deployment of authentic sourcematerial in a wider range of languages and fileformats.5 Language Resource Centre for LocalisationAlthough with LOTS the LRC has establishedthe foundations for a language resources centre forlocalisation, a consortium representing the mainactors in localisation, based in a number ofEuropean countries, including the accessioncountries, will need to be established to developand maintain such a repository long-term.
Thisconsortium will also need to develop long-lastingrelations with the leading industry associations andstandards bodies, e.g.
the Globalisation andLocalisation Association, LISA, OASIS, Unicode,W3C and The Institute of LocalisationProfessionals (TILP).The centre, proposed to be located at the LRC,will provide access to?
Linguistic resources?
Methodologies and guidelines?
Localisation scenariosEach of these components will be explainedmore in detail in the following sections.5.1 Repository of linguistic resourceThe centre will establish, develop and maintain arepository of linguistic resources for localisationphysically based at the LRC but accessible onlineover the Internet covering:?
A large variety of multimodal authenticdigital content in source and targetlanguages;?
Mono- and multilingual terminology;?
Translation memories;?
Linguistic tools and technologies used forthe automatic processing of digital content;?
Guidelines and standards for thedevelopment and processing of digitalcontent to be localised.Together, the efforts in these areas will deliverthe structural basis for a sustainedinternationalisation and localisation effort,especially for less widely spoken languages wheremarket forces often provide insufficient incentives.5.2 Methodologies and guidelinesThe centre will provde access to methodologiesand guidelines for the verification of standardscompliance and interoperability verification forlinguistic resources in a multilingual, multiculturaland multimodal localisation environment.
Thiswork will be based on industry-standardapproaches and be guided by established principlesand procedures.
The reports will be sourced incooperation with relevant associations andstandards bodies and public deliverables ofEuropean Union funded projects.5.3 Localisation scenariosThe centre will, in consultation with the widerlocalisation community, build a laboratory-based,automated localisation environment mirroring real-world, authentic localisation scenarios.
Thisenvironment will be used to showcase, verify anddemonstrate best practice in localisation makinguse of the linguistic resources available through thecentre.Results from each of these three areas of activitywill be made available to the wider digital contentand localisation communities using differentdissemination strategies.
It is envisaged that thedevelopment of a market place for these linguisticresources will guarantee the sustainability of theeffort.6 ConclusionWe have shown how the needs and requirementsof localisation have developed over the years.
Theenormous pressure on localisation providers toproduces language versions of original materialsimultaneously with the production and publicationof the original can only be addressed makingefficient and effective use of customised languageresources covering linguistic data, tools andtechnologies, and appropriate standards.Access to language resources for SMEs and theresearch community can be realised within awidely supported Language Resource Centre forLocalisation, built on the foundations of theLocalisation Tools and Technology Laboratory(LOTS) at the LRC.The establishment of the Language ResourcesCentre for Localisation is a five-year project.During this time, the LRC plans to create asustainable, accessible and financially viablelinguistic infrastructure for the internationalisationand localisation communities.Its overall aims are to:?
Pool together linguistic infrastructureresources for the localisation industry,including digital content, monolingual andmultilingual terminology, translationmemories, tools and technologies, as wellas relevant standards.?
Establish a linguistic resources supportnetwork within the localisation industrycovering digital content publishers, serviceproviders, technology developers,standards bodies and standards verificationinitiatives.?
Provide convenient access to relevantlinguistic resources for content developers,service providers, as well as suppliers oflocalisation services and solutions.?
Develop methodologies for the verificationof standards compliance.?
Implement localisation scenarios in alaboratory environment aimed atdemonstrating state-of-the-art, bestpractice localisation technology andprocess solutions, and at verifying relevantlocalisation standards.?
Work towards the establishment of amarket place and a viable linguisticresources provider network for thelocalisation industry.Activities during years 1-2 will focus on theestablishment of a repository of linguisticresources.
During this period, the LRC will build acore group of partners supporting its development.This core group will be backed by the LRC?sContact Group.Activities during years 3-5 will see theimplementation of a financially viable standardstesting and interoperability verification system atthe LRC.
While few commercial organisationshave managed to make a profit to sustain this kindof activity in other industrial sectors, there is nodoubt that the operation of such a centre isfinancially viable long-term in a not-for-profitenvironment such as that provided by the LRC atthe University of Limerick.7 AcknowledgementsWe would like to acknowledge the support of theEuropean Union for the European LocalisationExchange Centre (ELECT) under its eContentProgramme, contract 52005.ReferencesElectonline ?
the online resource for thelocalisation community.
www.electonline.org,last visited 10 June 2004.Language resources: the ELRA definition.http://www.elra.info/article.php3?id_article=35,last visited 20 May 2004.Localization Industry Primer.
LISA.www.hltcentral.org/usr_docs/call_docs/eContent/call1/LISA%20Primer.pdf, last visited13 May 2004.Sch?ler, R., Michael Carl, Andy Way.
2002.Toward a Hybrid Integrated TranslationEnvironment.
In: ?Proceedings of the FifthBiennial Conference of the Association forMachine Translation in the Americas Conference(AMTA)?, Tiburon, California, 08-12 October2002.Sch?ler, R. 2002.
The European LocalisationExchange Centre (Keynote).
In: Proceedings ofthe Twenty-first International UnicodeConference, Unicode Localization and the Web:The Global Connection, Dublin, Ireland, 16-17May 2002.Sch?ler, R. 2002.
The XLIFF Standard.
PanelSession with Ian Dunlop (Novell), TonyJewtushenko (Oracle), Wojtek Kosinski andPeter Reynolds (Bowne), in: Proceedings of theTwenty-first International Unicode Conference,Unicode Localization and the Web: The GlobalConnection, Dublin, Ireland, 16-17 May 2002.Standards in the localisation process.
Graphicalrepresentation.
www.i18n.ca, last visited 10 May2004.
