PolyphraZ : a tool for the management of parallel corporaNajeh HAJLAOUIGETA, CLIPS, IMAGUniversit?
Joseph Fourier, BP 5338041 Grenoble, FranceNajeh.Hajlaoui@imag.frChristian BOITETGETA, CLIPS, IMAGUniversit?
Joseph Fourier, BP 5338041 Grenoble, FranceChristian.Boitet@imag.frAbstractThe PolyphraZ tool is being developed in theframework of the TraCorpEx project(Translation of Corpora of Examples), tomanage parallel multilingual corpora throughthe web.
Corpus files (monolingual ormultilingual) are firstly converted to astandard coding (CXM.dtd, UTF8).
Then, theyare assembled (CPXM.dtd) to visualize themin parallel through the web.
In a third stage,they are put in a Multilingual PolyphrazMemory (MPM).
A "polyphrase" is a structurecontaining an original sentence and variousproposals of equivalent sentences, in the sameand other languages.
An MPM stores one ormore corpora of polyphrazes.
The MPM partof PolyphraZ has 3 main web interfaces.
Oneis a web-oriented translator workstation(TWS), where suggestions or translationscome from the MPM itself, which functions asits own translation memory, and from calls toMT systems.
Another serves to send sentencesto MT systems with appropriate parameters,and to run various evaluation measures (NIST,BLEU, and distance computations) in order topropose to the translator a "best" proposal.
Athird interface is planned for giving feedbacksto the developers of the MT systems, in theform of lists of unknown or wrongly translatedwords, with suggestions for correcttranslations, and of parallel presentation ofpairs of translations showing the "editingwork" to be done to get one from the other.The first 2 stages are operational, and used forexperimentation and MT evaluation on theCSTAR 5-lingual BTEC corpus and on theJapanese-English Tanaka corpus used as asource of examples in electronic dictionaries(JDict, Papillon).
A main goal of this effort isto offer occasional and volunteer translatorsand posteditors access to a free TWS and tosharable translation memories put in the MPMformat.1 IntroductionDue to Internet grow, the number of availabledocuments grows dramatically.
There is a strategicneed for companies to produce and manageinformation written in more than 30 languages(HP, IBM, MS, Caterpillar).
This requirespowerful tools to manage multilingual documents.Current techniques for handling multilingualdocuments use large-grained linking (at the levelof HTML pages), but don't allow fine-grainedsynchronization (at paragraph or sentence level)and don't permit bilingual or multilingual editingthrough the Web.The interest to synchronize at least at the level ofsentences is double:?
make it possible to use Machine Aided HumanTranslation (MAHT) techniques, in particulartranslation memories, for translating andpostediting multilingual documents.?
add UNL tags at sentence level to store thetranslations as well as UNL hypergraphs(anglosemantic interlingual representations),from which raw (or rough!)
translations intoother languages can be obtained from distant"deconversion" servers.Here, we are not concerned with the problem ofaligning parallel monolingual documents, orrealigning them after they have been modified, afrequent need in the case of leaflets and booklets.
(Assimi,2000) proposed a tool to handle the non-centralized management of the evolution ofmultilingual parallel documents.
We consider thecase, frequent in the industry, where documents aremanaged centrally, even if they are distributed onseveral sites.
What happens in general is that theyare aligned at the level of large blocks, with onefile per block and language (fileXXX.en.htm,fileXXX.fr.htm etc.
for HTML pages).What we propose is to align them at the level ofsentences, but of course not to have one file persentence.
Rather, if there are N languages, for agiven "block" corresponding to some unit ofprocessing (e.g.
visualization), we will have eitherN monolingual sentence-aligned files, or 1multilingual file.
In both cases, sentences or placeholders for sentences will be linked to a MPM tomanage translation and postedition.We began to build PolyphraZ in the context ofthe TraCorpEx project (Translation of Corpora ofExamples).
A more recent motivation is to extendthe BTEC corpus of CSTAR III (163000 sentencesin tourism) to French and Arabic, and to evaluatevarious Chinese-English MT systems on it.We will first present the data we start with, andour goals in more detail.
In a second part, we willdescribe the architecture of PolyphraZ, startingfrom scenarios of use and types of users.
Lastly,we will describe the current status of this work.2 TraCorpEx and PolyphraZ2.1 ContextThe TraCorpEx project has several contexts: thePapillon project (Papillon) of co-operativeconstruction of a large multilingual lexical base onthe Web, the C-STAR III project (C-STAR III) oftranslation of spoken dialogues, a French andTunisian project (Hajlaoui, Boitet, 2003b), theUNL project (UNL) of communication andmultilingual information system, and the PhDresearch of the various participants in this project.2.2 Current data and problemsWe have initially 2 "parallel" corpora, structureddifferently.?
The BTEC corpus of C-STAR is made of 5sets of 163 files of 12K to 40K, eachcontaining 1000 sentences, in English,Japanese (coded in EUC), Chinese andKorean, for a total of 6.1 Mo per language.?
The TANAKA corpus (Japanese-English),given to the Papillon project a few monthsbefore the death of its author in 2002, is madeof 45 files for a total of 18.4 Mo.
It containssentences of newspapers or teaching works ofNHK for the training of English by theJapanese.
Each file is bilingual.We have also corpora from the UNL project,where each document is a multilingual filecontaining for each sentence its text in sourcelanguage, a UNL graph, the result ofdeconversions in a certain number of languages,and possibly their revisions, or direct manualtranslations.All these "parallel" corpora are aligned at thelevel of sentences.
As it would be interesting toshow correspondences at finer levels (syntagms,chunks, words), we design PolyphraZ to later addtools for subsential alignement such as the onedeveloped by Ch.
Chenon for his Ph.D.In other corpora, we may be obliged to go up tothe level of paragraphs, because sentences will notbe aligned perfectly.
That will not be donecompletely in PolyphraZ, but at the level of thestructure of the multilingual document itself: if 2sentences are translated by 3, each of the 5sentences will be in a different polyphrase, withtheir individual translations, and there will beanother polyphrase, of "n-m" type, to contain the 2complete segements.The first problem we encounter with theavailable parallel corpora it is that there is no toolto visualize their contents at a glance, sentence bysentence, nor to show the fine correspondencesbetween subsentential segments.
In addition, in thecase of UNL documents, we cannot visualize at thesame time a sentences in several languages and itscorresponding UNL graph.
Lastly, it is not possibleto see successive versions in parallel.When it comes to evaluation, we can only seethe monolingual files, and associated statisticalmeasurements (NIST, BLEU...), but we can neverconfront them with the real translations and make adirect subjective evaluation.2.3 Detailed objectivesThe objectives of TraCorpEx project are asfollows.2.3.1 Construction of a software platformWe want to build an environment, whichsupports the import and the export of parallelcorpora, the preparation of the data for automatictranslators, the postedition (HAMT), the evaluation(various feedbacks methods) and finally apreparation of "feedbacks" to the developers ofused MT systems.2.3.2 Addition of new languagesStarting from parallel corpora, we want to addone or more languages (those of the Papillonproject for the Tanaka corpus, French and Arabicfor the BTEC corpus).2.3.3 Evaluation of MT systemsWe also wish that the same platform makes itpossible to evaluate automatic translators withautomatic methods such as NIST, BLEU, PER, andto use this possibility in CSTAR, to evaluate theChinese-English and Japanese-English translations.To evaluate the results of various MT systems willalso enable us to determine "the best" (or less bad!
)translation, proposable to a contributor as a startingpoint for revision.We also want to test a hypothesis by the secondauthor: the quality of the translations could also beevaluated using calculations of distances betweensentences and reverse translations.2.3.4 Feedbacks to developers of MT systemsWe also want to give feedbacks to thedevelopers of the systems used (unknown words,badly translated sentences...), and a comparativepresentation between the various translationsystems.The whole of the objectives of this project ledus to propose interactive Web interfaces allowingus to chooses, use, compare, publish machinetranslations corresponding to several languagepairs, and to contribute to the improvement of theresults by sending feedbacks to the developers ofthese systems.2.4 The PolyphraZ platformPolyphraZ is a software platform making itpossible at the same time to visualize the availablecorpora on the Web by showing several languages,with the choice of the user and to work on a basisof "polyphrases" initialised from these corporawhile making it possible to control all functionsdescribed above (call of MT systems, distancecomputation,  collaborative postedit ion,evaluation).2.4.1 General architectureWe follow the software architecture of thePapillon platform.We classify the objects to handle in three types?
Raw corpus sources?
Sources transformed into our XML formatCXM.
(Common Example Markup) andcoded in UTF-8, for visualization "just asthey are", then in CPXM format, DTD forparallel visualization.?
MPM: multilingual polyphrase memoryFigure 1: objects of the PolyphraZ platform2.4.2 Intended users of PolyphraZWe distinguish four principal users: the preparer,the reader ("normal" user), the posteditor and themanager.?
The preparerHis role consists in calling translation systems,thereby parameterizing them as well as pos-sible, which supposes a certain linguisticability (to compare the results of variousparameter settings, and of various segmenta-tions in "blocks", each corresponding to someparameter settings).The preparer can also call objective evaluationmethods (NIST, BLEU...) on the results oftranslation, tune with parameters to computedistances between sentences (results oftranslation and/or reverse translations), andpost the results.
The distance computationproduces, in addition to a value, a XML stringfrom which a ?track changes?
presentation canbe generated.
The preparer can also set theparameters determining "the best" suggestionamong the various translation candidates.?
The reader (normal user)A reader can visualize the data (the original,various translations, and distances between thecharacter strings) through Web interfaces, butis not allowed to edit the translations.?
The translator-posteditorThe translator-posteditor is a contributor whotranslates from scratch or revises proposedtranslations (MT results or translations ofsimilar sentences found in the MPM or in otherTM put in CPXM or MPM format).
There isan editable area to modify the active sentence.One can also ask for global modifications (ex:"SVP" changed into "s'il vous plait" in tran-scribed spoken utterances) and correct or sup-plement the local dictionary attached to theMPM.
The system uses the reference sentencesalready produced like a translation memory.PolyphraZ is thus also a system of assistanceto the translator, limited to the translation ofsets of sentences (or titles), with less function-alities than commercial TWS, but usable forcollaborative volunteer work by non-professionals.?
The managerThe last type of user is the manager, who willproduce from a MPM "feedbacks" for the de-velopers of the MT systems used.
A managercans himself be a developer of an MT system.He can draw up a list of unknown words andwords badly translated by each system (pro-duced from the traces of distance computa-tions).
A second function is to propose forthese words suggestions of translation from the"reference" translations obtained after human!Corpus=TanakaCorpus=CSTARCorpus=BTEC-CHCorpus=BTEC-ENRaw corpussourcesinitial versionsVarious formatsVarious codingsVisualization onseveral documentsCXM(Commun   ExampleMarkup)Single format XMLcoding = UTF-8Parallel visualisationCXMMPM!
:(Multilingual PolyphaseMemory)CorrespondenceVersioningLD : Local DictionaryMPMLDExportImportExternalresourcesInternetCPXMCPXM(Common Parallel ExampleMarkup)Corpus=set of polyphrasesBTEC-JPNFormat= texteCoding= EUCBTEC-JPNFormat =XMLDTD=CXMCoding= UTF-8revision.
Finally, it is possibile to provide apresentation of the evaluations and compari-sons between the results of the various systemsused and/or their various parameter settings.2.4.3 Implementation of PolyphraZProgrammed in standard Java under the Enhydradevelopment environment used for the dynamicand multilingual Papillon web site, PolyphraZ ismulti-platform (MacOS-X/Unix/Linux, Windows).2.5 ScenariosThe use of  PolyphraZ can be divided in 3 parts:setting of the data under three different formats(CXM, CPXM, MPM).Figure 2 : scenarios for using PolyphraZ2.5.1 CXM (Common eXample Markup)In order to manipulate a single format (XML)and a single encoding (UTF-8), we automaticallyconvert into the CXM format the imported data(corpus, text aligned...).
CDM is defined in thesame spirit as the CDM (Common DictionnaryMarkup) of the Papillon project.Figure 3: example XML file conforming to theCXM.dtd2.5.2 CPXM.dtd (Common Parallel eXampleMarkup)A second Java program transforms all CXM filescorresponding to a given multilingual parallelcorpus of sentences to the CPXM format (seeappendix 2).
In this format, we introduce the"polyphrase" XML element, which is a set ofmonolingual components, each containing possiblyone or more proposals.2.5.3 MPM.dtd (Multilingual PolyphraseMemory)The MPM data structure is under construction.
Itis intended for the management of thecorrespondences between the various linguisticversions as well as the modifications which can bemade, and to keep the history of the modified files.As shown in the following figure, a MPM ofPolyphraZ can contain a set of versions andalternatives of the sentences, as well as the resultsof various computations.Figure 4 : logical view of a MPMWe give a first version of the MPM DTD inappendix 3.2.5.4 Parallel visualizationPolyphraZ can visualize polyphrases in parallelfrom corpora in CPXM or MPM formats.
Thisfunctionality is useful to compare translations, andis made available to readers; translators revisors,and managers.InitialisationOf LDOn the Weblocal (server)preparerContributors(translator orposteditor)VisitorsManager (on local or onthe Web)ftpInitialdocumentCXMRecoveryBasic toolsTextEdit, BBEditTools ?Methods ?multilingualscorpora inCXMCPXMCorporainCPXMLD(LocalDictionary)Initialisationof the MPMmonolingualscorpora inCXMPapillonParallel Visualisation of dataMPM (MultilingualPolyphrase Memory )DistancecalculationTranslationAutomaticevaluation2.21.31.22.11.1Proposal211.112.21.31.22.12Proposal N?ofversionN?ofversionXL1,L2(1.1,1.1)XL1,L2(1.2,1.2)??..DL1(1.1,1.2)DL2(1.1,1.3)???.VersionVersionVersionCorespondancesDistancecalculation?
?.Language 3(L3)Language 2(L2)Language 1(L1)Hierarchy 1Hierarchy2Figure 5: parallel visualisation of the BTEC (extract)2.6 Evaluation of translation resultsWe have programmed and integrad inPolyphraZ three evaluation methods (NIST, BLEUand distance calculation).
NIST and BLEU arewell known.
Let us give more details aboutdistance calculation between 2 sentences.The distance we compute between two strings isa linear combination of two edit distances, one atthe level of characters, the other at the level ofwords.
In general, the edit distance between twostrings P1 and P2 of atoms (characters or wordshere) is the minimal number of suppressions,insertions or replacements of atoms necessary totransform P1 into P2 or, equivalently, P2 into P1.To compute the edit distance between P1 and P2 atthe level of words, one segments them into words,computes the character distances between words ofP1 and words of P2, and then computes the worddistance using words as "large characters".We use the well-known dynamic programmingalgorithm of (Wagner, Fischer, 1974).
To combinethe two levels (characters and words), we use theformula:D = (aDchar+bDword)/(a+b)   ; a +b=1Figure 6:trace of the Wagner and Fischeralgorithm2.6.1 ?Track changes?
visualisationThis representation corresponds to thepresentation used by Microsoft Word in"Track changes" mode.
It is very readable.
Incertain cases, the representation at the level ofthe characters is more compact and readablethat at the level of words, while it is theopposite in other cases.
In fact, thisrepresentation is not "faithful" to the trace,because a sequence of exchanges istransformed into a sequence of suppressionsand a sequence of insertions.aisympablthiqueFigure 7:?Track changes?
displayOne interesting and today unsolved problem ishow to merge the 2 levels: given 2 sentences andtheir character and word edit distances, necessarilyboth minimal, how to produce a trace which wouldbe "the best" or "a best" combination of the 2traces?2.6.2 Representation with 3 linesFigure 8 : 3 lines representationThis representation is simpler to understand, buttakes more space.?
represents the exchange of a character byanother,|| represents the equality between two characters?
represent the suppression of the 1st character,Figure 9 : XML representation3 ConclusionThe CXM and CPXM levels of PolyphraZ arealready used.
They have allow us to import theBTEC multilingual corpus of parallel sentences(into the common CPM format), to transform it(163000 sentenes in 5 languages) into files inCPXM formats, and to visualize it1on the web.The Tanaka corpus should be available when thispaper will be presented.
The "inner" level of MPM(Multilingual Polyphrase Memory) is almostcompleted.
It will also support versioning.In the future, we plan to use MPMs not only tohandle multilingual corpora of parallel sentences,but also like "pivots", to establish the sentence-level correspondence between parallel monolingualstructured documents.
If no high quality TWS (likeTrados, TM2, D?j?
Vu; Transit, etc.)
is available,PolyphraZ could be used as a "bare bone" TWS,directly through the web, in the Montaigne2spirit.We are also studying how to integrate into aMPM structure "generators" specifying classes ofsentences (automata for messages with variablesand variants, regular expressions for CSTAR IFexpressions, etc.
), and to use them to extend aMPM not only "in width" (addition of newlanguages), but also "in height", by the automaticcreation of new "statements", natural and/orformal.R?f?rencesA-B.Assimi (Assimi,2000).
Gestion de l?
?volutionnon centralis?e de documents parall?lesmultilingues, Nouvelle th?se, UJF, Grenoble,31/10/00, 200!p.A-B.Assimi & C.Boitet (Assimi&Boitet,2001)Management of Non-Centralized Evolution ofParallel Multilingual Documents.
P r o c .Internationalization Track, 10th InternationalWorld Wide Web Conference, Hong Kong, May1-5, 2001, 7 p.Ch.Boitet (Boitet, 2003) Approaches to enlargebilingual corpora of example sentences to morelanguages,  Papillon-03 seminar, Sapporo, 3-5July 2003 12!p.Ch .Boitet & Tsai W.-J (Boitet & W-J 2002).Coedition to share text revision acrosslanguages.
Proc.
COLING-02 WS on MT,Taipeh, 1/9/2002, 8 p.1The full corpus is only accessible to members ofCSTAR-III, so that we show only extractscorresponding to parts which are or will be publishedfor the open evaluation of various MT systems to bepresented at IWSLT-04.2Mutualization Of Nomadic Translation Aidsfor Groups on the NEt (Mutualisation d'OutilsNomades de Traduction avec Aides Informatiquespour des Groupes sur le NEt).H.Vo-trung (Vo-trung, 2004) R?utilisation detraducteurs gratuits pour d?velopper dessyst?mes multilingues, accept?
?
la conf?renceRECITAL 2004, avril 2004, F?s, Maroc.N.Hajlaoui, Ch .Boitet (Hajlaoui, Boitet, 2003a), A"pivot" XML-based architecture for multilingual,multiversion documents!
: parallel monolingualdocuments aligned through a centralcorrespondence descriptor and possible use ofU N L , Convergences?03, Alexandria, 2-6December 2003.N.Hajlaoui, Ch.Boitet (Hajlaoui, Boitet, 2003b),Mod?lisation de la production de phrases,projet franco-tunisien entre l?
?quipe GETA,CLIPS, UJF, Grenoble et universit?
de Sousse,Tunisie, 25 p.N.Hajlaoui (2002) Gestion des versions descomposants ?lectroniques virtuels.
Rapport deDEA, CSI, INPG, juin 2002, 80 p.R.Wagner & Michael.Fischer (Wagner, Fischer,1974)  The String-to-String Correction ProblemACM Journal of the Association for ComputingMachinery, Vol.
21, No 1, Janvier 1974.W.-J.Tsai (Tsai,2001) SWIIVRE a web site for theInitiation, Information, Validation, Research andExperimentation on UNL.
Proc.
First UNL OpenConference - Building Global Knowledge withUNL, Suzhou, China, 18-20 Nov. 2001, 8 p.(C-STAR-III) C-STAR project, http://www.c-star.org/(Papillon) Projet PAPILLON de constructioncoop?rative d'une base lexicale multilingue et dec o n s t r u c t i o n  d e  d i c t i o n n a i r e s ,http://www.papillon-dictionary.org/(TraCorpEx) projet TraCorpExhttp://www-clips.imag.fr/geta/User/najeh.hajlaoui/tracorpex/index.html(UNL) Universal Networking Langage (UNL)project, http://www.undl.org/Appendices<!-- CXM.dtd  (Common eXample Markup ) is aDTD  which  describes the corpora(multilingual or monolingual), it is thesimplest format for imported data.$Author:  Najeh Hajlaouinajeh.hajlaoui@imag.fr$Date: 2003/12/10 01:28:30 $ --><!ELEMENT document (information, sentence*) ><!ELEMENT information (#PCDATA) ><!ATTLIST information document-name  CDATA#REQUIRED><!ATTLIST information   creation-dateCDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information modification-dateCDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information   coding-set    CDATA#IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information number-of-languagesCDATA     #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information   number-of-sentencesCDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST sentence   sentence-id    CDATA#REQUIRED><!ATTLIST sentence xml:lang CDATA #REQUIRED><!ELEMENT sentence (segment*) ><!ATTLIST segment   segment-id    CDATA#REQUIRED><!ELEMENT segment (#PCDATA) ><!-- Document is a set of sentences, eachsentence is definedby an identifier called sentence-id and alsoby an attribute which indicates thelanguage --><!-- number-of-languages is the total numberof languages constituting the document; ifthe document is monolingual, number-of-languages =1   --><!-- number-of-sentences is the total numberof sentences constituting the document --><!-- Each sentence is a set of one or morepossible  segment; each segment isidentified by an attribute called  segment-id -->Appendix 1 : CXM.dtd (Common eXampleMarkup)<!-- CPXM.dtd  (Common Parallel eXampleMarkup ) is a  DTD  which  describes themultilingual documents (m languages),multiversions (n versions) (n>m), itallows the description of a collection ofpolyphrases in a single format andencoding.$Author:  Najeh Hajlaouinajeh.hajlaoui@imag.fr$Date: 2003/06/10 01:28:30 $ --><!ELEMENT document (information,polyphrase*) ><!ELEMENT information (#PCDATA) ><!ATTLIST information document-name  CDATA#REQUIRED><!ATTLIST information   creation-dateCDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information modification-dateCDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information   coding-setCDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information number-of-languagesCDATA                 #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information number-of-polyphrases CDATA #IMPLIED><!ELEMENT polyphrase (monolingual-component*) ><!ATTLIST polyphrase   polyphrase-idCDATA #REQUIRED><!ELEMENT  monolingual-component(segment*) ><!ATTLIST monolingual-component xml:langCDATA #REQUIRED><!ELEMENT  segment (proposal) ><!ATTLIST proposal   proposal-id    CDATA#REQUIRED><!ELEMENT  proposal (#PCDATA) ><!-- number-of-languages is the totalnumber of languages appearing in thedocument; if the document is monolingual,number-of-languages =1   --><!-- number-of-polyphrases is the totalnumber of polyphrases constituting thedocument --><!-- A polyphrase is a set of monolingualcomponents, each containing 1 or morepossible proposals.
Every polyphrase isidentified by a number called polyphrase-id --><!-- Each monolingual component is a setof one or more possible renderings of thesegment in question; it is identified byan attribute which indicates the language--><!-- Segment represents the level ofalignment, it is usually a sentence -->Appendix 2 : CPXM.dtd (Common ParalleleXample Markup)<!-- MPM.dtd  (Multilingual PolyphrasesMemory ) is a  DTD  which  allows thegeneration of sentences aligned inseveral languages and the management ofthe correspondence between thesesentences.$Author:  Najeh Hajlaouinajeh.hajlaoui@imag.fr$Date: 2003/01/28 21:28:30 $ --><!ELEMENT document (information,generator*, node-of-correspondence*) ><!ELEMENT information (#PCDATA) ><!ATTLIST information document-nameCDATA #REQUIRED><!ATTLIST information   creation-dateCDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information modification-dateCDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information   coding-setCDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information number-of-languagesCDATA #IMPLIED><!ATTLIST information number-of-generatorCDATA #IMPLIED><!ELEMENT generator (instance*) ><!ATTLIST generator   original    CDATA#REQUIRED><!ATTLIST generator   context    CDATA#REQUIRED><!ELEMENT  instance (segment*) ><!ATTLIST instance xml:lang CDATA#REQUIRED><!ATTLIST segment node-of-corespondance-id CDATA #REQUIRED><!ELEMENT  segment (proposal) ><!ELEMENT  proposal (#PCDATA) ><!-- number-of-languages is the totalnumber of languages appearing in thedocument; if the document ismonolingual, number-of-languages = 1 --><!-- number-of-generator is the totalnumber of generator appearing in thedocument --><!-- A generator is a set of originalsentences and  their instance  --><!-- A instance is a set of one or morepossible renderings of the segment inquestion; it is identified by anattribute which indicates the language--><!-- Segment represents the level ofalignment, it is usually a sentence --><!-- A node-of-correspondence-idrepresents the link of corespondancebetween the dif?rents proposals oftranslation -->Appendix 3 : MPM.dtd (Multilingual PolyphraseMemory)
