Lexical-Semantic Interpretation of Language Inputin Mathematical DialogsMagdalena Wolska1 Ivana Kruijff-Korbayova?1 Helmut Horacek21Fachrichtung Computerlinguistik 2Fachrichtung InformatikUniversita?t des Saarlandes, Postfach 15 11 5066041 Saarbru?cken, Germany{magda,korbay}@coli.uni-sb.de, horacek@ags.uni-sb.deAbstractDiscourse in formal domains, such as mathematics,is characterized by a mixture of telegraphic natu-ral language and embedded (semi-)formal symbolicmathematical expressions.
Due to the lack of em-pirical data, little is known about the suitability ofinput analysis methods for mathematical discoursein a dialog setting.
We present an input understand-ing method for a tutoring system teaching mathe-matical theorem proving.
The adopted deep anal-ysis strategy is motivated by the complexity of thelanguage phenomena observed in a corpus collectedin a Wizard-of-Oz experiment.
Our goal is a uni-form input interpretation, in particular, consideringdifferent degrees of formality of natural languageverbalizations.1 IntroductionIn the DIALOG1 project (Benzm u?ller et al, 2003a),we are investigating and modeling semantic andpragmatic phenomena in tutorial dialogs focused onproblem solving skills in mathematics.
Our goal is(i) to empirically investigate the use of flexible natu-ral language dialog in tutoring mathematics, and (ii)to develop a dialog-based tutoring system for teach-ing mathematical theorem proving.
The experimen-tal system will engage in a dialog in written naturallanguage to help a student understand and constructmathematical proofs.
In this paper, we address astrategy for user input interpretation in our setting.Because of the lack of empirical dialog-data onthe use of natural language in formal domains, suchas mathematics, we conducted a Wizard-of-Oz ex-periment to collect a corpus of dialogs with a sim-ulated system teaching proofs in naive set theory.An investigation of the corpus reveals language phe-nomena that present challenges to the existing com-monly used input understanding methods.
The chal-1The DIALOG project is a collaboration between the Com-puter Science and Computational Linguistics departments ofUniversity of the Saarland, and is a part of the CollaborativeResearch Center on Resource-Adaptive Cognitive Processes,SFB 378 (www.coli.uni-sb.de/sfb378).lenges lie in (i) the tight interleaving of natural andsymbolic language, (ii) varying degree of naturallanguage verbalization of the formal mathematicalcontent, and (iii) informal and/or imprecise refer-ence to mathematical concepts and relations.These phenomena motivate the use of deep syn-tactic and semantic analysis of user input.
We de-veloped a grammar that allows a uniform treatmentof the linguistic content on a par with the math-ematical content and thus supports analysis of in-puts of different degrees of verbalization.
We em-ploy a domain-motivated semantic lexicon to medi-ate between the domain-independent semantic rep-resentation obtained through semantic constructionduring parsing and domain-specific interpretation.This serves to achieve a consistent semantic anal-ysis while avoiding example-based heuristics.The paper is organized as follows: In Sect.
2,we present the setup of the system and the corpuscollection experiment.
In Sect.
3 and show exam-ples of language phenomena from our dialogs.
InSect.
4, we first summarize the approach to pars-ing the mixed symbolic and natural language in-put and then present a lexical-semantic interface toa domain-specific interpretation of the input.
Weshow example analyzes in Sect.
5.
In Sect.
6,we summarize relevant existing approaches to inputanalysis in (tutorial) dialog systems on the one handand analysis of mathematical discourse on the other.Sect.
7 is the conclusion.2 System setup and corpus collectionOur system scenario is illustrated in Fig.
1:?
Learning Environment: Students take an inter-active course in the relevant subfield of mathe-matics.?
Mathematical Proof Assistant (MPA): Checksthe appropriateness of user specified inferencesteps with respect to the problem-solving goal;based on ?MEGA.?
Proof Manager (PM): In the course of tutor-ing session the student may explore alternativePEDAGOGICALKNOWLEDGEUSERMODELLEARNINGENVIRONMENTMATHEMATICALPROOF ASSISTANTDIALOG MANAGERGENERATIONPROOF MANAGERANALYSISMATHEMATICALKNOWLEDGE(MBASE)ACTIVEMATH OMEGARESOURCESLINGUISTIC DIALOGRESOURCESTUTORINGRESOURCES /MANAGERUSERFigure 1: DIALOG project scenario.proofs.
The PM builds and maintains a repre-sentation of constructed proofs and communi-cates with the MPA to evaluate the appropriate-ness of the student?s contributions for the proofconstruction.?
Dialog Manager: We employ the Information-State (IS) Update approach developed in theTRINDI project2?
Tutorial Manager (TM): This componentincorporates extensions to handle tutorial-specific dialog moves, such as hinting.?
Knowledge Resources: This includes peda-gogical knowledge (teaching strategies), andmathematical knowledge.In order to empirically investigate the use of nat-ural language in mathematics tutoring, we collectedand analyzed a corpus of dialogs with a simulatedtutoring system.24 subjects with varying educational backgroundand little/fair prior mathematical knowledge partic-ipated in a Wizard-of-Oz experiment (Benzm u?ller etal., 2003b).
The experiment consisted of 3 phases:(i) preparation and pre-test (on paper), (ii) tutor-ing session (mediated by a WOz tool (Fiedler andGabsdil, 2002)), (iii) post-test and evaluation ques-tionnaire (on paper).
At the tutoring session, theywere asked to prove 3 theorems3: (i) K((A ?
B) ?
(C ?
D)) = (K(A) ?
K(B)) ?
(K(C) ?
K(D));(ii) A ?
B ?
P ((A ?
C) ?
(B ?
C)); (iii) IfA ?
K(B), then B ?
K(A).
The subjects wereinstructed to enter proof steps, rather than completeproofs at once, to encourage interaction with thesystem.
The subjects and the tutor were free in for-mulating their turns.42http://www.ling.gu.se/research/projects/trindi/3K stands for set complement and P for power set.4Buttons were available in the interface for inserting math-ematical symbols, while literals were typed on the keyboard.The collected corpus consists of 66 dialog log-files, containing on average 12 turns.
The total num-ber of sentences is 1115, of which 393 are studentsentences.
The students?
turns consisted on aver-age of 1 sentence, the tutor?s of 2.
More details onthe corpus itself and annotation efforts that guidethe development of the system components can befound in (Wolska et al, 2004).3 Linguistic dataIn this section, we present an overview of the lan-guage phenomena prominent in the collected di-alogs to indicate the overall complexity of input un-derstanding in our setting.5Interleaved natural language and formulas Thefollowing examples illustrate how the mathematicallanguage, often semi-formal, is interleaved with thenatural language informally verbalizing proof steps.A auch ?
K(B) [Aalso ?
K (B)]A?B ist ?
von C?
(A?B) [... is ?
of ...](da ja A?B=?)
[(because A?B=?
)]B enthaelt kein x?A [B contains no x?A]The mixture affects the way parsing needs to beconducted: mathematical content has to be identi-fied before it is interpreted within the utterance.
Inparticular, mathematical objects (or parts thereof)may lie within the scope of quantifiers or negationexpressed in natural language (as in the last exampleabove).Imprecise or informal naming Domain relationsand concepts are described informally using impre-cise and/or ambiguous expressions.A enthaelt B [A contains B]A muss in B sein [A must be in B]B vollstaendig ausserhalb von A liegen muss, also imKomplement von A[B has to be entirely outside of A, so in the complement of A]dann sind A und B (vollkommen) verschieden, haben keinegemeinsamen Elemente[then A and B are (completely) different, have no commonelements]In the above examples, contain and be in can ex-press domain relations of (strict) subset or element,while be outside of and be different are informaldescriptions of the empty intersection of sets.To handle imprecision and informality, we havedesigned an ontological knowledge base that in-cludes domain-specific interpretations of concep-tual relations that have corresponding formal coun-terparts in the domain of naive set theory.The dialogs were typed in German.5As the tutor was also free in wording his turns, we includeobservations from both student and tutor language behavior.Metonymy Metonymic expressions are used torefer to structural sub-parts of formulas, resultingin predicate structures acceptable informally, yet in-compatible in terms of selection restrictions.Dann gilt fuer die linke Seite, wennC ?
(A ?
B) = (A ?
C) ?
(B ?C), der Begriff A ?
B dann jaschon dadrin und ist somit auch Element davon[Then for the left hand side it is valid that..., the term A ?
B is alreadythere, and so an element of it]where the predicate be valid for, in this domain,normally takes an argument of sort CONSTANT,TERM or FORMULA, rather than LOCATION;de morgan regel 2 auf beide komplemente angewendet[de morgan rule 2 applied to both complements]where the predicate apply takes two arguments: oneof sort RULE and the other of sort TERM or FOR-MULA, rather than OPERATION ON SETS.Informal descriptions of proof-step actionsWende zweimal die DeMorgan-Regel an[I?m applying DeMorgan rule twice]damit kann ich den oberen Ausdruck wie folgt schreiben:.
.
.
[given this I can write the upper term as follows:.
.
.
]Sometimes, ?actions?
involving terms, formulaeor parts thereof are verbalized before the appropri-ate formal operation is performed.
The meaning ofthe ?action verbs?
is needed for the interpretation ofthe intended proof-step.Discourse deixisder obere Ausdruck [the above term]der letzte Satz [the last sentence]Folgerung aus dem Obigen [conclusion from the above]aus der regel in der zweiten Zeile[from the rule in the second line]This class of referring expressions includes alsoreferences to structural parts of terms and formu-las such as ?the left side?
or ?the inner parenthe-sis?
which are incomplete specifications: the formerrefers to a part of a formula, the latter, metonymic,to an expression enclosed in parenthesis.
More-over, they require discourse referents for sub-partsof mathematical expressions to be available.Generic vs. specific referencePotenzmenge enthaelt alle Teilmengen, also auch (A?B)[A power set contains all subsets, hence also(A?B)]Generic and specific references can appear withinone utterance as above, where ?a power set?
is ageneric reference, whereas ?A?B?
is a specific ref-erence to a subset of a specific instance of a powerset introduced earlier.Co-reference6Da, wenn Ai?K(Bj) sein soll, Ai Element von K(Bj) seinmuss.
Und wenn Bk?K(Al) sein soll, muss esk auchElement von K(Al) sein.
[Because if it should be that Ai?K(Bj), Ai must be anelement of K(Bj).
And if it should be that Bk?K(Al), itmust be an element of K(Al) as well.
]DeMorgan-Regel-2 besagt: K(Ai ?
Bj) = K(Ai) ?
K(Bj)In diesem Fall: z.B.
K(Ai) = dem BegriffK(Ak ?
Bl) K(Bj) = dem Begriff K(C ?
D)[DeMorgan-Regel-2 means:K(Ai ?
Bj) = K(Ai) ?
K(Bj) In this case: e.g.
K(Ai) =the term K(Ak ?
Bl) K(Bj) = the term K(C ?D)]Co-reference phenomena specific to informalmathematical discourse involve (parts of) mathe-matical expressions within text.
In particular, enti-ties denoted with the same literals may not co-refer,as in the second utterance.In the next section, we present the input interpre-tation procedure up to the level of lexical-semanticinterpretation.
We concentrate on the interface be-tween the linguistic meaning representation (ob-tained from the parser) and the representation ofdomain-knowledge (encoded in a domain ontol-ogy), which we realize through a domain-motivatedsemantic lexicon.4 Interpretation strategyThe task of the input interpretation component istwo-fold.
Firstly, it is to construct a representationof the utterance?s linguistic meaning.
Secondly, it isto identify within the utterance, separate, and con-struct interpretations of:(i) parts which constitute meta-communicationwith the tutor (e.g., ?Ich habe die Aufgaben-stellung nicht verstanden.?
[I don?t understandwhat the task is.]
that are not to be processedby the domain reasoner; and(ii) parts which convey domain knowledge thatshould be verified by a domain reasoner; forexample, the entire utterance ?K((A ?
B)) istlaut deMorgan-1 K(A) ?
K(B)?
[... is, ac-cording to deMorgan-1,...] can be evaluatedin the context of the proof being constructed;on the other hand, the reasoner?s knowledgebase does not contain appropriate representa-tions to evaluate the appropriateness of the fo-cusing particle ?also?
in ?Wenn A = B, dann istA auch ?
K(B) und B ?
K(A).?
[If A = B,then A is also ?
K(B) and B ?
K(A).
].Domain-specific interpretation(s) of the proof-relevant parts of the input are further processed by6To indicate co-referential entities, we inserted the indiceswhich are not present in the dialog logfiles.Proof Manager, a component that directly commu-nicates with a domain-reasoner7 .
The task of theProof Manager is to: (i) build and maintain a repre-sentation of the proof constructed by the student;8(ii) check appropriateness of the interpretation(s)found by the input understanding module with thestate of the proof constructed so far; (iii) given thecurrent proof state, evaluate the utterance with re-spect to soundness, relevance, and completeness.The semantic analysis proceeds in 2 stages:(i) After standard pre-processing9 , mathematicalexpressions are identified, analyzed, catego-rized, and substituted with default lexicon en-tries encoded in the grammar.
The input is thensyntactically parsed, and an formal abstractrepresentation of its meaning is constructedcompositionally along with the parse;(ii) The obtained meaning representation is subse-quently merged with discourse context and in-terpreted by consulting a semantic lexicon ofthe domain and a domain-specific ontology.In the next sections, we first briefly summa-rize the syntactic and semantic parsing part of theinput understanding process10 and show the for-mat of meaning encoding constructed at this stage(Sect.
4.1).
Then, we show the lexical-semantic in-terface to the domain ontology (Sect.
4.2).4.1 Linguistic MeaningBy linguistic meaning (LM), we understand thedependency-based deep semantics in the sense ofthe Prague School sentence meaning as employed inthe Functional Generative Description (FGD) (Sgallet al, 1986; Kruijff, 2001).
It represents the lit-eral meaning of the utterance rather than a domain-specific interpretation.11 In FGD, the central frameunit of a sentence/clause is the head verb whichspecifies the tectogrammatical relations (TRs) of7We are using a version of ?MEGA adapted for assertion-level proving (Vo et al, 2003)8The discourse content representation is separated from theproof representation, however, the corresponding entities mustbe co-indexed in both.9Standard pre-processing includes sentence and word to-kenization, (spelling correction and) morphological analysis,part-of-speech tagging.10We are concentrating on syntactically well-formed utter-ances.
In this paper, we are not discussing ways of combin-ing deep and shallow processing techniques for handling mal-formed input.11LM is conceptually related to logical form, however, dif-fers in coverage: while it does operate on the level of deepsemantic roles, such aspects of meaning as the scope of quan-tifiers or interpretation of plurals, synonymy, or ambiguity arenot resolved.its dependents (participants).
Further distinction isdrawn into inner participants, such as Actor, Pa-tient, Addressee, and free modifications, such as Lo-cation, Means, Direction.
Using TRs rather thansurface grammatical roles provides a generalizedview of the correlations between the conceptualcontent of an utterance and its linguistic realization.At the pre-processing stage, mathematical ex-pressions embedded within input are identified, ver-ified as to syntactic validity, categorized, and sub-stituted with default lexical entries encoded in theparser grammar for mathematical expression cate-gories.
For example, the expression K((A ?
B) ?
(C ?D)) = (K(A?B)?K(C ?D)) given its topnode operator, =, is of type formula, its ?left side?is the expression K((A ?
B) ?
(C ?
D)), the listof bracketed sub-expressions includes: A?B, C?D,(A ?
B) ?
(C ?
D), etc.Next, the pre-processed input is parsed witha lexically-based syntactic/semantic parser builton Multi-Modal Combinatory Categorial Gram-mar (Baldridge, 2002; Baldridge and Kruijff, 2003).The task of the deep parser is to produce an FGD-based linguistic meaning representation of syntac-tically well-formed sentences and fragments.
Thelinguistic meaning is represented in the formalismof Hybrid Logic Dependency Semantics.
Details onthe semantic construction in this formalism can befound in (Baldridge and Kruijff, 2002).To derive our set of TRs we generalize and sim-plify the collection of Praguian tectogrammaticalrelations from (Hajic?ova?
et al, 2000).
One rea-son for simplification is to distinguish which re-lations are to be understood metaphorically giventhe domain-specific sub-language.
The most com-monly occurring relations in our context (aside fromthe roles of Actor and Patient) are Cause, Condi-tion, and Result-Conclusion (which coincide withthe rhetorical relations in the argumentative struc-ture of the proof):Da [A ?
K(B) gilt]<CAUSE>, alle x, die in A sind sind nicht in B[As A?K(B) applies, all x that are in A are not in B]Wenn [A ?
K(B)]<COND>, dann A ?
B=?
[If A?K(B), then A?B=?
]For example, in one of the readings of ?B en-thaelt x ?
A?, the verb ?enthaelten?
representsFigure 2: TRs in ?B contains x ?
A?.containFORMULA:B<ACT>FORMULA:x ?
A<PAT>the meaning contain and in this frame takes de-pendents in the relations Actor and Patient, shownschematically in Fig.
2 (FORMULA represents thedefault lexical entry for the identified mathematicalexpressions categorized as formulas).
The linguis-tic meaning of this utterance returned by the parserobtains the following representation:@h1(contain ?
<ACT>(f1 ?
FORMULA:B) ?
<PAT>(f2 ?FORMULA: x ?
A)where h1 is the state where the proposition containis true, and the nominals f1 and f2 represent depen-dents of the head contain, in the relations Actor andPatient, respectively.More details on our approach to parsing inter-leaved natural and symbolic expressions can befound in (Wolska and Kruijff-Korbayova?, 2004a)and more information on investigation into tec-togrammatical relations that build up linguisticmeaning of informal mathematical text can be foundin (Wolska and Kruijff-Korbayova?, 2004b).4.2 Conceptual SemanticsAt the final stage of input understanding, the lin-guistic meaning representations obtained from theparser are interpreted with respect to the givendomain.
We encode information on the domain-specific concepts and relations in a domain ontol-ogy that reflects the knowledge base of the domain-reasoner, and which is augmented to allow res-olution of ambiguities introduced by natural lan-guage (Horacek and Wolska, 2004).
We interfaceto the domain ontology through an upper-level on-tology of concepts at the lexical-semantics level.Domain specializations of conceptual relationsare encoded in the domain ontology, while a seman-tic lexicon assigns conceptually-oriented semanticsin terms of linguistic meaning frames and provides alink to the domain interpretation(s) through the do-main ontology.
Lexical semantics in combinationwith the knowledge encoded in the ontology allowsus to identify those parts of utterances that have aninterpretation in the given domain.
Moreover, pro-ductive rules for treatment of metonymic expres-sions are encoded through instantiation of type com-patible concepts.
If more than one lexical-semanticinterpretation is plausible, no disambiguation is per-formed.
Alternative conceptual representations arefurther interpreted using the domain ontology, andpassed on to the Proof Manager for evaluation.
Be-low we explain some of the entries the semantic lex-icon encodes:Containment The Containment relation special-izes into the domain relations of (strict) SUB-SET and ELEMENT.
Linguistically, it can be re-alized, among others, with the verb ?enthalten?(?contain?).
The tectogrammatical frame of?enthalten?
involves the roles of Actor (ACT)and Patient (PAT):contain(ACTtype:F ORMULA, PATtype:F ORMULA) ?
(SUBFORMULAP AT , embeddingACT )contain(ACTtype:OBJECT , PATtype:OBJECT ) ?CONTAINMENT(containerACT , containeeP AT )Location The Location relation, realized linguisti-cally by the prepositional phrase introduced by?in?, involves the tectogrammatical relationsHasProperty-Location (LOC) and the Actor ofthe predicate ?sein?.
We consider Locationin our domain as synonymous with Contain-ment.
Another realization of this relation, dualto the above, occurs with the adverbial phrase?au?erhalb von ...(liegen)?
(?lie outside of?
)and is defined as negation of Containment:in(ACTtype:OBJECT ,LOCtype:OBJECT )?
CONTAINMENT(containerLOC , containeeACT )outside(ACTtype:OBJECT ,LOCtype:OBJECT )?
not(in(ACTtype:OBJECT ,LOCtype:OBJECT ))Common property A general notion of ?commonproperty?
we define as follows:common(Property, ACTplural(A:SET,B:SET))?
Property(p1, A) ?
Property(p1, B)Property is a meta-object that can be instanti-ated with any relational predicate, for exampleas in ?
(A und B)<ACT> haben (gemeinsameElemente)<PAT>?
(?A and B have commonelements?
):common(ELEMENT, ACTplural(A:SET,B:SET))?
ELEMENT(p1 ,A) ?
ELEMENT(p1 , B)Difference The Difference relation, realizedlinguistically by the predicates ?verschieden(sein)?
(?be different?
; for COLLECTION orSTRUCTURED OBJECTS) and ?disjunkt (sein)?
(?be disjoint?
; for objects of type COLLEC-TION) involves a plural Actor (e.g.
coordinatednoun phrases) and a HasProperty TRs.
De-pending on the type of the entity in the Actorrelation, the interpretations are:different(ACTplural(A:SET,B:SET)) ?
A 6= Bdifferent(ACTplural(A:SET,B:SET))?
(e1 ELEMENT A ?
e2 ELEMENT B ?
e1 6= e2)different(ACTplural(A:ST RUCTUREDOBJECT,B:STRUCT UREDOBJECT ))?
(Property1(p1, A) ?
Property2(p2, B) ?Property1 = Property2 ?
p1 6= p2)Mereological relations Here, we encode part-of relations between domain objects.
Theseconcern both physical surface and ontologi-cal properties of objects.
Commonly occurringpart-of relations in our domain are:hasComponent(STRUCTURED OBJECTterm,formula ,STRUCTURED OBJECTSUBT ERM,SUBF ORMULA)hasComponent(STRUCTURED OBJECTterm,formula ,STRUCTUREDOBJECTENCLOSEDT ERM,ENCLOSEDF ORMULA)hasComponent(STRUCTURED OBJECTterm,formula ,STRUCTUREDOBJECTT ERMCOMP ONENT,FORMULACOMP ONENT )Moreover, from the ontology we have:Property(STRUCTURED OBJECTterm,formula ,componentterm?side,formula?side)Using these definitions and polysemy rulessuch as polysemous(Object, Property), we canobtain interpretation of utterances such as?Dann gilt f u?r die linke Seite, .
.
.
?
(?Thenfor the left side it holds that .
.
.
?)
where thepredicate ?gilt?
normally takes two argumentsof types STRUCTURED OBJECTterm,formula ,rather than an argument of type Property.For example, the previously mentioned predicatecontain (Fig.
2) represents the semantic relation ofContainment which, in the domain of naive set the-ory, is ambiguous between the domain relations EL-EMENT, SUBSET, and PROPER SUBSET.
The al-ternative specializations are encoded in the domainontology, while the semantic lexicon provides theconceptual structure of the head predicate.
At thedomain interpretation stage, the semantic lexicon isconsulted to translate the tectogrammatical frame ofthe predicate into a semantic relation representedin the domain ontology.
For the predicate contain,from the semantic lexicon, we obtain:contain(ACTtype:F ORMULA, PATtype:F ORMULA)?
(SUBFORMULAP AT , embeddingACT )[?a Patient of type FORMULA is a subformula embedded within aFORMULA in the Actor relation with respect to the head contain?
]contain(ACTtype:OBJECT , PATtype:OBJECT )?
CONTAINMENT(containerACT , containeeP AT )[?the Containment relation involves a predicate contain and its Actorand Patient dependents, where the Actor and Patient are the containerand containee parameters respectively?
]Translation rules that consult the domain ontologyexpand the conceptual structure representation intoalternative domain-specific interpretations preserv-ing argument structure.
As it is in the capacity ofneither sentence-level nor discourse-level analysisto evaluate the appropriateness of the alternative in-terpretations in the proof context, this task is dele-gated to the Proof Manager.5 Example analysisIn this section, we illustrate the mechanics of theapproach on the following example:A enthaelt keinesfalls Elemente, die auch in B sind.
[A contains no elements that are also in B]The analysis proceeds as follows.The mathematical expression tagger first iden-tifies the expressions A and B.
If there was noprior discourse entity for ?A?
and ?B?
to verifytheir types, they are ambiguous between constant,term, and formula12 .
The expressions are substi-tuted with generic entries FORMULA, TERM, CONSTrepresented in the parser grammar.
The sentence isassigned alternative readings: ?CONST contains noelements that are also in CONST?, ?CONST containsno elements that are also in TERM?, ?CONST con-tains no elements that are also in FORMULA?, etc.Here, we continue only with ?CONST contains noelements that are also in CONST?
; the other readingswould be discarded at later stages of processing be-cause of sortal incompatibilities.The linguistic meaning of the utterance obtainedfrom the parser is represented by the following for-mula13:@n1(no ?
<Restr>e1 ?<Body>(p1 ?
contain ?
<ACT>(a1 ?
A) ?
<PAT> e1)) ?
@e1(element ?<GenRel>(b1 ?
be ?
<ACT>e1 ?
<HasProp-Loc>(b2 ?
B)))[?
(set) A contains no elements that are in (set) B?
]Next, the semantic lexicon is consulted to trans-late the linguistic meaning representation into a con-ceptual structure.
The relevant lexical semantic en-tries are Containment and Location (see Sect.
4.2).The transformation is presented schematically be-low:contain(ACTOBJECT :A, PATOBJECT :element) ?CONTAINMENT(containerA , containeeelement)(ACTOBJECT :element, HasProp-LocOBJECT :B )?
CONTAINMENT(containerB , containeeelement)Finally, in the domain ontology, we find that theconceptual relation of Containment, in naive set the-ory, specializes into the domain relations of ELE-MENT, SUBSET, STRICT SUBSET.
Using the lin-guistic meaning, the semantic lexicon, and the do-main ontology, we obtain all the combinations ofinterpretations, including the target one paraphrasedbelow:?it is not the case that there exist elements e, such that e ?
A and e ?
B?,Using translation rules the final interpretationsare translated into first-order logic formulas andpassed on for evaluation to the Proof Manager.6 Related workLanguage understanding in dialog systems, be itwith speech or text interface, is commonly per-formed using shallow syntactic analysis combined12In prior discourse, there may have been an assignmentA := ?, where ?
is a formula, in which case, A would be knownfrom discourse context to be of type FORMULA (similarly forterm assignment); by CONST we mean a set or element variablesuch as A, x denoting a set A or an element x respectively.13Irrelevant parts of the meaning representation are omitted;glosses of the formula are provided.with keyword spotting.
Tutorial systems also suc-cessfully employ statistical methods which com-pare student responses to a model built from pre-constructed gold-standard answers (Graesser et al,2000).
This is impossible for our dialogs, due tothe presence of symbolic mathematical expressionsand because of such aspects of discourse meaningas causal relations, modality, negation, or scopeof quantifiers which are of crucial importance inour setting, but of which shallow techniques remainoblivious (or handle them in a rudimentary way).When precise understanding is needed, tutorial sys-tems use closed-questions to elicit short answers oflittle syntactic variation (Glass, 2001) or restrictedformat of input is allowed.
However, this conflictswith the preference for flexible dialog do achieveactive learning (Moore, 1993).With regard to interpreting mathematicaltexts, (Zinn, 1999) and (Baur, 1999) present DRTanalyzes of course-book proofs.
The language inour dialogs is more informal: natural language andsymbolic mathematical expressions are mixed morefreely, there is a higher degree and more varietyof verbalization, and mathematical objects are notproperly introduced.
Both above approaches rely ontypesetting information that identifies mathematicalsymbols, formulas, and proof steps, whereas ourinput does not contain any such information.Forcing the user to delimit formulas would notguarantee a clean separation of the natural languageand the non-linguistic content, while might reducethe flexibility of the system by making the interfaceharder to use.7 Conclusion and Further WorkIn this paper, we reported on the use of deep syn-tactic and semantic analysis in the interpretationof mathematical discourse in a dialog setting.
Wepresented an approach that uses domain-motivatedsemantic lexicon to mediate between a domain-independent representation of linguistic meaning ofutterances and their domain-specific interpretation.We are incrementally extending the coverage ofthe deep analysis components.
Our current parsergrammar and upper-level ontology cover most ofthe constructions and concepts that occur most fre-quently in our corpus.
The module will be evaluatedas part of the next Wizard-of-Oz experiment.We are planning to investigate the possibilityof using FrameNet resources developed within theSALSA project (Erk et al, 2003) at the intermedi-ate interpretation stage between the linguistic mean-ing and domain-specific interpretation.
Presently,the semantic lexicon we have constructed encodes,for instance, a general conceptual relation of CON-TAINMENT evoked by the verb ?enthalten?
(?con-tain?
), with dependents in relations Actor and Pa-tient, which corresponds to the FrameNet CON-TAINING domain with frame elements CONTAINERand CONTENTS.
In the course of further work, wewould like to investigate ways of establishing inter-face between the linguistic meaning TRs and frameelements, and attempt to use FrameNet to interpretpredicates unknown to our semantic lexicon.
Tak-ing a hypothetical example, if our parser grammarencoded the meaning of the verb ?beinhalten?
(withthe intended meaning contain) in the same linguis-tic meaning frame as ?enthalten?
(contain), whilethe sense of ?beinhalten?
were not explicitly definedin the semantic lexicon, we could attempt to inter-pret it using the FrameNet CONTAINING domainand the existing lexical semantic entry for ?enthal-ten?.ReferencesJ.
Baldridge.
2002.
Lexically Specified Derivational Controlin Combinatory Categorial Grammar.
Ph.D. Thesis, Uni-versity of Edinburgh, Edinburgh.J.
M. Baldridge and G.J.
M. Kruijff.
2002.
Coupling CCG withhybrid logic dependency semantics.
In Proc.
of the 40th An-nual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics (ACL?02), Philadelphia PA.J.
M. Baldridge and G.J.
M. Kruijff.
2003.
Multi-modal com-binatory categorial grammar.
In Proc.
of the 10th AnnualMeeting of the European Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (EACL?03), Budapest.J.
Baur.
1999.
Syntax und Semantik mathematischer Texte.Diplomarbeit, Fachrichtung Computerlinguistik, Universit a?tdes Saarlandes, Saarbr u?cken, Germany.C.
Benzm u?ller, A. Fiedler, M. Gabsdil, H. Horacek, I. Kruijff-Korbayov a?, M. Pinkal, J. Siekmann, D. Tsovaltzi, B. Q. Vo,and M. Wolska.
2003a.
Tutorial dialogs on mathematicalproofs.
In Proc.
of IJCAI?03 Workshop on Knowledge Rep-resentation and Automated Reasoning for E-Learning Sys-tems, Acapulco, Mexico.C.
Benzm u?ller, A. Fiedler, M. Gabsdil, H. Horacek, I. Kruijff-Korbayov a?, M. Pinkal, J. Siekmann, D. Tsovaltzi, B. Q. Vo,and M. Wolska.
2003b.
A Wizard-of-Oz experiment for tu-torial dialogues in mathematics.
In Proc.
of the AIED?03Workshop on Advanced Technologies for Mathematics Edu-cation, Sydney, Australia.K.
Erk, A. Kowalski, and M. Pinkal.
2003.
A corpus re-source for lexical semantics.
In Proc.
of the 5th Interna-tional Workshop on Computational Semantics, Tilburg, TheNetherlands.A.
Fiedler and M. Gabsdil.
2002.
Supporting Progressive Re-finement of Wizard-of-Oz Experiments.
In Proc.
of theITS?02 Workshop on Empirical Methods for Tutorial Dia-logue, San Sebastian, Spain.M.
Glass.
2001.
Processing language input in the CIRCSIM-Tutor intelligent tutoring system.
In Proc.
of the 10th Con-ference on Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED?01),San Antonio.A.
Graesser, P. Wiemer-Hastings, K. Wiemer-Hastings, D. Har-ter, and N. Person.
2000.
Using latent semantic analysis toevaluate the contributions of students in autotutor.
Interac-tive Learning Environments, 8.E.
Hajic?ov a?, J. Panevov a?, and P. Sgall.
2000.
A manual for tec-togrammatical tagging of the Prague Dependency Treebank.TR-2000-09, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic.H.
Horacek and M. Wolska.
2004.
Interpreting Semi-FormalUtterances in Dialogs about Mathematical Proofs.
In Proc.of the 9th International Conference on Application of Nat-ural Language to Information Systems (NLDB?04), Salford,Manchester, Springer.
To appear.G.J.M.
Kruijff.
2001.
A Categorial-Modal Logical Architec-ture of Informativity: Dependency Grammar Logic & In-formation Structure.
Ph.D. Thesis, Institute of Formal andApplied Linguistics ( ?UFAL), Faculty of Mathematics andPhysics, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic.J.
Moore.
1993.
What makes human explanations effective?In Proc.
of the 15th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Sci-ence Society, Hillsdale, NJ.P.
Sgall, E. Hajic?ov a?, and J. Panevov a?.
1986.
The meaning ofthe sentence in its semantic and pragmatic aspects.
ReidelPublishing Company, Dordrecht, The Netherlands.Q.B.
Vo, C. Benzm u?ller, and S. Autexier.
2003.
An approachto assertion application via generalized resolution.
SEKIReport SR-03-01, Fachrichtung Informatik, Universit a?t desSaarlandes, Saarbr u?cken, Germany.M.
Wolska and I. Kruijff-Korbayov a?.
2004.
Analysis of mixednatural and symbolic language input in mathematical di-alogs.
In Proc.of the 42nd Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL), Barcelona, Spain.
To ap-pear.M.
Wolska and I. Kruijff-Korbayov a?.
2004.
Building adependency-based grammar for parsing informal mathemat-ical discourse.
In Proc.
of the 7th International Conferenceon Text, Speech and Dialogue (TSD?04), Brno, Czech Re-public, Springer.
To appear.M.
Wolska, B. Q. Vo, D. Tsovaltzi, I. Kruijff-Korbayov a?,E.
Karagjosova, H. Horacek, M. Gabsdil, A. Fiedler,C.
Benzm u?ller, 2004.
An annotated corpus of tutorial di-alogs on mathematical theorem proving.
In Proc.
of 4th In-ternational Conference On Language Resources and Evalu-ation (LREC?04), Lisbon, Portugal.
To appear.C.
Zinn.
1999.
Understanding mathematical discourse.
InProc.
of the 3rd Workshop on the Semantics and Pragmat-ics of Dialogue (Amstelogue?99), Amsterdam, The Nether-lands.
