Building parallel corpora for eContent professionalsM.
Gavrilidou, P. Labropoulou, E. Desipri, V. Giouli, V. Antonopoulos, S. PiperidisInstitute for Language and Speech ProcessingEpidavrou & Artemidos 6151 25 Maroussi, Greece.
{maria, penny, elina, voula, vantonop, spip} @ilsp.grAbstractThis paper reports on completed work carriedout in the framework of the INTERA project,and specifically, on the production ofmultilingual resources (LRs) for eContentpurposes.
The paper presents the methodologyadopted for the development of the corpus(acquisition and processing of the textualdata), discusses the divergence of the initialassumptions from the actual situation metduring this procedure, and concludes with asummarization of the problems attested whichundermine the viability of multilingual parallelcorpora construction.1 IntroductionINTERA (Integrated European language dataRepository Area, Contract 22076Y2C2DMAL2) isan EU-funded project within the eContentframework, aiming at?
building an integrated European LanguageResources (LRs) area by connecting existingdata centers at regional, national andinternational level, and?
at proposing "ways and techniques for LRspackaging to make it a profitable and attractivetask to eContent professionals"; as anapplication of this task, the production ofmultilingual resources, namely parallel corporaand multilingual terminologies extracted fromthese, is undertaken (INTERA TechnicalAnnex).This paper focuses on the second aim of theproject, presenting the work carried out in the areaof parallel corpus production, identifying the stepsfollowed in this process, in order to point out theproblematic areas involved in the task and suggestways of encompassing them.2 Methodology and specificationsThe process usually followed in the LRsproduction involves the following tasks: (a)identification of user needs and requirements, (b)specifications for the selection, construction andpackaging of the LRs, (c) identification of potentialsources, (d) construction of the LRs per se, (e)promotion and distribution of the LRs.Given that INTERA is an eContent project, thetarget user group defined by the Technical Annexof the project was eContent professionals andusers; furthermore, it was decided that the LRs tobe produced (which would be of interest to thisgroup) would be parallel corpora and multilingualterminological lists.
Finally, the most importantobjective of the LRs production was the definitionof a business model which would be attractive tothe abovementioned target group.The following sections discuss the actual stepstaken for the implementation of theserequirements.The target group of eContent players addressedby the project has been further defined asconsisting of professionals involved with the:?
production of digital content (authors orpublishers)?
Globalization, Internationalization, Localiz-ation and Translation (GILT) processes, and?
development of Human LanguageTechnology (HLT) software, ranging frommultilingual information retrieval andextraction tools, to content management andComputer-Assisted Translation or MachineTranslation solutions.The next step concerned the identification ofuser needs and requirements on the basis of theprofessionals?
working habits and processes.
Thiswas achieved by exploiting the results of a numberof previous initiatives to roadmap the state-of-the-art in multilingual LRs, in combination with newinitiatives undertaken in the framework of theproject and targeted to the eContent world.The surveys conducted in the framework of theENABLER project (Maegaard et al 2003,Gavrilidou & Desipri 2003) provided insights as tothe existence and availability of different types ofLRs, language demand, domains of interest,standards, etc.
Although ENABLER focused onthe LRs developer?s point of view, a number ofvaluable results were elicited.
Other surveys, suchas those conducted by ELRA and its distributionagency ELDA aiming at determining the needs ofusers with respect to available and potentiallyavailable LRs (http://www.elra.info/), or surveysavailable over the Internet through the sites ofinternational organizations such as LISA and IDCor consultancy firms (http://www.globalsight.com,LISA 2001, LISA/AIIM 2001, LISA/OSCAR2003) shed a light as to the availability ofresources and relevant tools.The information elicited from these surveys wascoupled by a study of the activities of the eContentprofessionals as regards LRs, conducted in theframework of INTERA (Gavrilidou et al 2004)through the circulation of a questionnairedistributed to potential users, as well as throughpersonal contacts with a number of actors in therelevant fields.
The main areas of the studyconcerned the types of LRs the eContentprofessionals are interested in, domains andlanguages of interest, and, most important, policiesconcerning the way they acquire, use and exploitLRs and tools.The study of the target group yielded thefollowing specifications:?
domains: it is obvious that eContent users aremore interested in specialized domains than ingeneral language resources; moreover, thesurvey results showed health/medicine,tourism, education, law, automotive industryand IT/telecommunications, as being theprevailing ones.
In the framework of theINTERA project, however, we decided tofocus on the prevailing domains as long asthey promote multilingual and multiculturalcontent.
The selected domains are: health,tourism, education and law, which correspondto the predominant digital activities, namely,eTourism, eHealth, eLearning, eGovernmentand eCommerce.?
languages: the focus of eContent and the needsof the users pointed towards the less widelyspoken languages, including Balkan andCentral and Eastern European languages (i.ethe languages of the new EU countries).The project aims at the construction of amultilingual parallel corpus of 12 millionwords in total.
The ideal scenario for theintended application of term extraction wouldbe that of having a corpus with a source orpivot language and translations of the sametexts in a number of target languages;however, given that the project aims atproposing realistic solutions to be adopted inthe future by prospective LRs creators, real-lifedrawbacks should be taken into account;therefore, the limitations in the availability ofexisting resources (see section 3.1) dictated thedecision to collect resources for four pairs oflanguages: Greek-English, Bulgarian-English,Slovene-English and Serbian-English.The specifications for the processing of thecorpus have been based on the requirements of itsintended application, which is the extraction ofterminology, and involve the following tasks:?
alignment of the texts: for the specificapplication purposes, alignment at sentencelevel has been deemed sufficient; however, thequality of the output is considered crucial;therefore, automatic processing is followed byhuman validation by language experts;?
external and internal structural annotation: theminimal requirements include segmentation atsentence level for the alignment task andmetadata information that will be required forthe distribution and re-use of the corpus;?
linguistic processing: below-Part of Speech(PoS) tagging and lemmatization is theminimum information required for theautomatic term extraction task.To ensure re-usability of the collected andprocessed material, compliance with the followinginternationally accredited standards was decided:?
the aligned material conforms to the TMXstandard (Translation Memory eXchange,http://www.lisa.org/tmx/), which is XML-compliant.
Being a vendor-neutral, openstandard for storing and exchanging translationmemories created by Computer AidedTranslation (CAT) and localization tools,TMX standard was identified as a requirementfor the eContent professionals.
It allows easierexchange of translation memory data betweentools and/or translation vendors with little orno loss of critical data during the process;?
for the external annotation, the IMDI metadataschema (IMDI, Metadata Elements for SessionDescriptions, Version 3.0.4, Sept. 2003,http://www.mpi.nl/world/ISLE/schemas/schemas_frame.html) has been selected; the internalstructural annotation adheres to the XCESstandard, i.e.
the XML version of the CorpusEncoding Standard (XCES,http://www.cs.vassar.edu/XCES/ and CES,http://www.cs.vassar.edu/CES/CES1-0.html).?
the linguistic annotation of the texts alsoadheres to the XCES standard, whichincorporates the EAGLES guidelines formorphosyntactic annotation(http://www.ilc.cnr.it/EAGLES96/home.html).3 Corpus construction3.1 Text collectionIn order to construct the parallel corpus, the firststep consisted in the identification of potentialsources, i.e.
existing parallel corpora and,alternatively or additionally, textual material thatcould be used for the creation from scratch of theINTERA corpus.Previous surveys (see section 2) that identifyexisting LRs as well as a search over the Internetattested the scarcity of available resources in theselected languages and domains, and so, the idea ofre-using existing corpora was abandoned in favourof the construction of a new corpus from scratch.The identification process of potential sourceshad to take into consideration the followingrequirements:?
to obtain texts from a variety of sources ofinterest to the eContent society,?
to ensure that the material was free ofIntellectual Property Rights problems, eitherthrough the arrangement of specificagreements or by obtaining them from publicsources.The ideal candidates, in this respect, mainlyconsist of texts available over the Internet,provided by organizations/institutions that wish tomake their own material available in more than onelanguage, such as international organizations (e.g.United Nations, European Union, World HealthOrganization, Non-Governmental Organizations,etc.
), multinational companies, companies withactivities outside their own country (e.g.
datadescribing company profiles & activities, productcatalogues, etc.
), public administration services(e.g.
regarding bilateral agreements, regulations forimmigrants, etc.
), news agencies (targetinginternational broadcasting or for foreign languageaudience within their own country), officialnational government sites, national tourismorganizations, etc.
In all the above cases, thematerial consists of either web content per se (i.e.mainly bilingual web sites, rarely trilingual orquadrilingual) or of texts (official documents,technical reports, etc.)
included in the web sites.A more careful investigation, however, of webtexts showed that although Internet is rapidlybecoming multilingual, it is not yet parallel,especially as regards the languages involved in theproject: most international bodies include originaland translated texts but only in the more widelyspoken languages.
Moreover, a closer inspection ofweb texts that "seem" parallel, on the basis ofstructural similarities (e.g.
similar size, paragraphsegmentation, possible "anchors", such as listenumerators, etc.)
showed that only sporadic partsof them were parallel.
More problems arise fromthe fact that texts may contain large parts offoreign language material (e.g.
EU regulations thatinclude amendments to previous regulations byincluding the replacement text of specificparagraphs in all EU languages).Given the above observations, cooperation withother data centers, with proven expertise in thearea of LRs production for the specific projectlanguages was sought; this would ensure contentquality of the corpus, both during the selection (i.e.native speakers are better qualified to recognizetrue parallel material) and the encoding andvalidation processes, especially as regards thealignment validation and the linguistic processing.ILSP remains responsible for the construction ofthe Greek-English corpus, the collection andharmonization of the four subcorpora, thelinguistic processing of the English texts and theaddition of the IMDI metadata.3.2 Text processingDepending on the source that provided theoriginal material (e.g.
web site content, publishinghouse, translation company, etc.
), differentprocessing was required in order to arrive at thedesired format adhering to the specifications set bythe INTERA project; such as, indicatively:?
conversion of the original PDF/RTF/HTMLetc.
files into the format required by thevarious tools (tokenizer, aligner, tagger),?
cleanup of the texts from unwanted material(e.g.
tables, figures, foreign language material,etc.)?
re-structuring of the original monolingual textsfrom the TMX file, when the source was theoutput of a Translation Memory,?
manual or semi-automatic annotation ofmetadata.Each language team undertook the processing ofthe collected material (i.e.
alignment and humanvalidation, structural and linguistic annotationwithout human validation), using their own tools,thus ensuring that no time is lost over training withnew tools and that the required language-dependent tools (especially taggers) used in theproject are the most appropriate ones.
The materialto be delivered, however, at the end of allprocesses must be conformant to the selectedstandards.The intervention of ILSP takes place only at theend of this process, with the purpose of validatingthe conformance of the results and of harmonizingany problematic issues.
The most important pointof this process is the linguistic annotation and,specifically, the harmonization of the differenttagsets used.
In conformance with themethodology adopted in the project, i.e.
of re-usingexisting material, whenever possible, with the leastpossible interventions, so as to ensure time andcost efficiency, it was decided to re-use onlyexisting tools for each language, without makingany modifications to the tools themselves but onlyconversion(s) of their output.
Therefore, the task ofharmonizing the output with regard to themorphosyntactic tags employed by each tagger isthe last stage of the procedure, where all tagsets aremapped to one, based on the EAGLES guidelines.4 ConclusionsIn this paper, we described the methodologyfollowed in the construction of a multilingualparallel corpus; this task has been interpreted as atest application endeavor in the process of defininga business model for the LRs production.
Theeffort was to identify gaps and shortcomings in theprocess usually employed by LRs producers (orusers who might wish to create their own LRs) andto suggest ways of remedying them.
Our findingsinclude:?
problems faced during the acquisition phase:although an increasing supply of raw data (e.g.over Internet) and tools capable of exploitingthis data (e.g.
web crawlers that can identifyand download texts in a given language) isattested, there is also a need for theenhancement of these tools with moreintelligent techniques (e.g.
incorporation ofalignment techniques during the acquisitionprocess in order to spot potential parallel texts,identification and mark-up of large foreignlanguage excerpts),?
problems faced during the processing phase:in order to enhance the LRs production effort,the re-use of existing tools is consideredcrucial.
It is true that an increasing number oftools are available for text processing;however, this is oriented mainly towards themajor languages.
Moreover, informationconcerning the existence, availability andoperation of existing tools is not easy to locate?
a gap that the other pillar of INTERA tries toremedy through the building of an integratedEuropean Language Resources area.Additionally, tools must be enhanced withrespect to two directions: improvement of thetools themselves (e.g.
more robust alignmenttechniques) and interoperability of all relevanttools currently used at different phases ofprocessing.
The issue of interoperability isclosely related with the issue of standards.
Thepromotion and deployment of existingstandards as well as the creation of newstandards, when these are lacking, is importantto ensure viability and re-use of LRs, given thecost of their production.ReferencesGavrilidou, M., E. Desipri.
2003.
Final Version ofthe Survey, ENABLER Deliverable 2.1.Gavrilidou, M. E. Desipri, P. Labropoulou, S.Piperidis, N. Calzolari, M. Monachini & C.Soria.
2004.
Technical specifications for theselection and encoding of multilingual resources,INTERA (Integrated European language dataRepository Area), Deliverable 5.1.IMDI, Metadata Elements for SessionDescriptions, Version 3.0.4, Sept. 2003.INTERA ?
eContent  2002 Integrated Europeanlanguages data Repository Area, TechnicalAnnex.LISA.
2001.
The LISA Globalization StrategiesAwareness Survey.LISA/AIIM.
2001.
The Black Hole in the Internet:LISA/AIIM Globalization Survey.LISA/OSCAR.
2003.
Translation Memory Survey.Maegaard, B., K. Choukri, V. Mapelli, M.Nikkhou & C. Povlsen.
2003.
Languageresources-Industrial needs, ENABLERDeliverable 4.2.
