Frozen Sentences of Portuguese: Formal Descriptions for NLPJorge BaptistaUniversidade do AlgarveCampus de GambelasP-8005-139 FAROjbaptis@ualg.ptAnabela CorreiaUniversidade do AlgarveCampus de GambelasP-8005-139 FAROGra?a FernandesUniversidade do AlgarveCampus de GambelasP-8005-139 FAROAbstractThis paper presents on-going research on the build-ing of an electronic dictionary of frozen sentencesof European Portuguese.
It will focus on the prob-lems arising from the description of their formalvariation in view of natural language processing1 IntroductionDefining frozen sentences is not easy, and manyconceptual and terminological disputes on concur-rent terms (?idioms?, ?collocations?, ?phras?mes?,etc.)
can be found in the literature (M. Gross 1988;G.Gross 1996; Mejri 1997; Mel?cuk 1993; Mogor-r?n-Huerta 2002; Gaatone 2000; Jurafsky & Mar-tin 2000: 571-573; McKeown & Rodev 2000;Mutsimoto 2003: 395).
As a first approach to a(consensual?)
definition, frozen sentences are ele-mentary sentences where the main verb and at leastone of its argument noun-phrases are distribution-ally constraint, and usually the global meaning ofthe expression cannot be calculated from the indi-vidual meaning of its component elements whenthey are used independently (M. Gross 1982, 1989,1996; G. Gross 1996; Ranchhod 2003).
For thatreason, the whole expression must be taken as acomplex, multiword lexical unit.
For example, in:(1) O Jo?o matou dois coelhos de uma cajadada(lit: ?John killed two rabbits with one blow?, Johnkilled two birds with one stone) the verb-objectcombination (matar-coelhos) is frozen.
One cannotreplace coelhos (rabbits) for another animal andthe numeral determinant is necessarily dois (two).Also, it is not possible to modify coelhos with anyfree adjective (dois coelhos *gordos/ *grandes,two fat/big rabbits).
In addition, the adverbial deuma cajadada (with one blow) can hardly be ze-roed, or the meaning of the sentence becomes lit-eral.
On the other hand, frozen sentences usuallypresent some, often highly constraint, formal varia-tion.
For the most part, this variation is strictlylexical.
In this case, in the adverbial, the noun ca-jadada (lit: a blow with a stick) can be replaced byassentada and vez (turn), but the meaning of theexpression remains unchanged.
This variation doesnot happens elsewhere.
Furthermore, if we disre-gard proverbs1, completely frozen sentences arerare.
Usually, one or more of its argument nounphrases are distributionally free.
In this case, anyhuman noun can adequately occupy the structuralposition of subject.
The frozen verb-noun combi-nation is responsible for this distributional con-straint, which can be considerably different fromthe constraints imposed by the verb when func-tioning as an independent lexical unit.
For exam-ple, the verb matar (to kill) admits both human andnon-human (animate and abstract) nouns for itssubject when its object is coelhos (rabbits): (2a) OJo?o/a raposa/o tiro/a praga matou dois coelhos(John/the fox/ shooting/ plague killed two rabbits).Another way frozen sentences often differ fromfree sentences is the fact that they block transfor-mations that should otherwise be possible, giventhe syntactic properties of the main verb and its ar-guments.
Hence, while it is possible to form from(2a) the passive sentence (2b): (2b) Dois coelhosforam mortos pelo Jo?o/ a raposa/ o tiro/ a praga(Two rabbits were killed by John/ the fox/ shoot-1 Proverbs differ from frozen sentences (a) from nothaving any free elements, (b) in the way they functionin discourse, which is similar to quotations and (c) fortheir general value as advices or as atemporal truthsabout human life.
However, partly because of their be-ing an oral tradition, even proverbs can show some for-mal variation (Chacoto 1994).Second ACL Workshop on Multiword Expressions: Integrating Processing, July 2004, pp.
72-79ing/ plague), the same does not happen with (1):(1a) ?Dois coelhos foram mortos pelo Jo?o de umacajadada (Two rabbits were killed by John withone blow), since the meaning of the sentence be-comes literal (this is shown by symbol ???).
Finally,frozen sentences constitute a non-trivial problemfor many NLP applications.
Since they are multi-word expressions functioning as meaning units,they have to be identified as a block.
However,their elements can appear discontinuously and theycan also present some formal variation.
They areoften ambiguous, the same sequence having both aliteral and a figurative meaning ?
and in this case,only an extended context can disambiguate them.They constitute an important part of the lexicon,comparable to (but probably much larger than)simple verbs.2 Classification of Frozen SentencesMany frozen sentences, especially those that aremost usual or most obviously idiomatic, have al-ready been collected both in general and in spe-cialized dictionaries of ?idioms?.
In these diction-aries, frozen sentences are usually undistinguishedfrom other types of multiword expressions, such ascompound nouns, adverbs, prepositions, conjunc-tions, proverbs, and so on.
In order to build anelectronic dictionary of frozen sentences of Euro-pean Portuguese, several sources where used, in-cluding specialized dictionaries2, and completedwith newspapers, magazines, etc.
and our knowl-edge as native speakers of Portuguese.
The formalframework of M. Gross (1982, 1989, 1996; see Le-cl?re 2002, for an updated overview) was adoptedto classify frozen sentences.
The classification isbased on the sentence structure, the number andtype of noun phrases attached to the main verb,their frozen or free nature, as well as the syntacticproperties of the construction.
Table 1 shows someformal classes3, their internal structure, an illustra-2 Basically, Mello 1986, Moreira 1996, Neves 2000,Santos 1990 and Sim?es 1993.
The electronic dictionaryof frozen sentences of Brazilian Portuguese (Vale 2001)was also consulted, but many of those sentences eitherdo not exist if European Portuguese or else present sub-stantial syntactical and lexical differences, so that a de-tailed comparative study is in order.3 Frozen sentences with sentential subjects or objects, orwith frozen subject noun phrases were not considered inthis paper.
N and C stand for noun phrases; N is a freetive example, and the approximate number of sen-tences collected so far.
Compared with figuresavailable for other languages ?
French (+20,000;M.Gross 1996), Spanish (3,500; Mogorr?n-Huerta2002), Greek (4,500; Fotopoulou 1993) and Bra-zilian Portuguese (3,500; Vale 2001), it is clearthat these lists are still far from complete andshould, in fact, be completed, probably using othercorpus-based methods for lexical acquisition(McKeown & Rodev 2000, Mutsimoto 2003).Table 1- Classification of frozen sentences (extract)Class Structure/Example SizeC1 N0 V C1O Pedro matou a galinha dos ovos de ouro 800CAN N0 V (C de N)1 = C1 a N2O Pedro arrefecer os ?nimos de=?
Ana 200CDN  N0 V (C de N)1O Pedro queria a cabe?a da Ana 100CP1  N0 V Prep C1O Pedro bateu com a porta 900CPN  N0 V Prep (C de N)1O Pedro foi aos cornos do Jo?o 100C1PN  N0 V C1 Prep N2O Pedro arrastou a asa ?
Ana 400CNP2  N0 V N1 Prep C2O Pedro tirou o rel?gio do prego 350C1P2  N0 V C1 Prep C2O Pedro deitou m?os ?
obra 400CPP  N0 V Prep C1 Prep C2O Pedro foi de cavalo para burro 200CPPN  N0 V C1 Prep C2 Prep C3O Pedro deitou o beb?
fora com a ?gua do banho 50Total 3,5003 Format of DictionaryThe electronic dictionary is composed of severalmatrices, one per formal class.
In these matrices,each line is a frozen sentence and the columns con-tain the lexical elements of the sentence and theirsyntactic (distributional and transformational)properties.
The set of matrices constitute the lexi-con-grammar of frozen sentences.
Table 2 is asample of class CPN.
This class is defined by hav-ing a prepositional phrase where only the head-noun C is frozen with the verb, while its determi-native complement de N (of N) is free: N0 V Prep(C de N)1.and C is frozen noun phrase; N0 is the subject, N1 and N2the first and second complement; V is the verb and Prepa preposition.Table 2 ?
Class CPN (extract)N0=:NhumN0=:N-humVVseNegObrigPrepDetCN1=:NhumN1=:N-humde N=a Nde N=PossExample+ - <acabar> - - com a ra?a + + + + O Pedro acabou com a ra?a da Ana+ - <atirar> + - a os p?s + - + + O Pedro atirou-se aos p?s da Ana+ - <chegar> - + a os calcanhares + - + + O Pedro n?o chega aos calcanhares da Ana+ - <cortar> - - em a casaca + - + - O Predro cortava na casaca da Ana+ - <ir> - - a as trombas + - + - O Pedro foi ?s trombas do Jo?o+ - <ir> - - em a cantiga + - - + O Pedro foi na cantiga da Ana+ - <ir> - - a a cara + - + - A Ana foi ?
cara do Pedro+ - <pegar> - - em a deixa + - + + O Pedro pegou na deixa da Ana+ - <rir> - - em a cara + - + + O Pedro riu na cara da Ana+ - <rir> + - em a cara + - + + O Pedro riu-se na cara da Ana- + <sair> - - de o pelo + - + - O sal?rio sai-lhe do pelo- + <subir> - - a a cabe?a + - + + A fama subiu ?
cabe?a do Pedro+ - <viver> - - em  a sombra + + - + O Pedro vive na sombra da AnaA B C D E F G H I J K L M4 Syntactic PropertiesFor lack of space, only some of the most promi-nent properties will be considered here.
For eachsentence, the distributional constraints (human/non-human noun) on the free noun phrases areindicated: ?+?
if the sentence admits it, ?-?
if itdoes not.
In this class, these are the subject andthe determinative complement of C. Usually, theverb can inflect freely, thus its lemma is shown inbrackets < >.
In some sentences, V presents anintrinsically reflexive construction (noted Vse):(3) O Pedro atirou-se aos p?s da Ana <e pediu-lhe para ficar> (Peter threw himself to the feet ofAna <and begged her to stay>.
The reflex pro-noun cannot be replaced by a noun phrase of thesame distributional nature but not coreferent tothe subject: O Pedro atirou *o Jo?o / ?o livro aosp?s da Ana (Peter threw John/the book to the feetof Ana).
Usually, this reflex pronoun cannot bezeroed.
However, some verbs allow this zeroingof the pronoun: (4) O Pedro riu(-se) na cara daAna (Peter laughs (himself) at the face of Ana).
Inthis case, the simplest way is to double the entry.Also in some cases, there is an obligatory nega-tion (NegObrig): (5) O Pedro n?o /nunca /nemchega aos calcanhares da Ana (lit: Peter doesnot/never/not even gets to the heels of Ana, Peteris not a match for Ana).
The half-frozen nounphrase can often undergo an operation called da-tive restructuring (Lecl?re 1995), that splits thenoun phrase in two and where the determinativecomplement becomes a dative complement a N(to N) of the verb: (6) O Pedro foi ?s trombas doJo?o = ao Jo?o (lit: Peter went to the snouts of/toJohn, Peter hit John).
This operation depends onthe metonymical relation between C and the nounof its free determinative complement.
The newdative complement can be reduced to a dativeclitic pronoun (-lhe): (6a) Pedro foi-lhe (= aoJo?o) ?s trombas do Jo?o.
However, dative re-structuring must be systematically checked foreach sentence, since some sentences do not admitit: (7) O Pedro foi na cantiga do Jo?o/ *ao Jo?o/*-lhe (lit: Peter went in the song of John, Peterwas persuaded by John?s ill-intended words).
Insome cases, however, the restructured nounphrase: (8a) O sal?rio do Pedro sai-lhe do pelo(lit: Peter?s salary gets him out from the fur, Toearn his salary, Peter has to work very hard) ismuch more acceptable than its basic form: ?
*Osal?rio sai do pelo do Pedro (The salary gets outfrom Peter?s fur) 4.
The determinative comple-ment can also be reduced to an oblique or to apossessive pronoun: (7a) O Pedro foi na cantigado Jo?o = na cantiga dele = na sua cantiga, butin some cases, the reduction to a possessive isblocked: (6b) O Pedro foi ?s trombas do Jo?o =?
?s trombas dele = *?
?s suas  trombas.
Finally,there can be some facultative, free insertions be-4 In this case, the pronouncing may blocked by the(double) metonymical relation of Pedro with both thehead noun of both the subject and object noun phrase.tween the verb and the prepositional phrase: (9) Afama subiu (rapidamente/logo) ?
cabe?a doPedro (Fame went up (quickly/soon) to Peter?shead).
As one can see, these properties may beindependent from each other and some of themcan appear in combination in the same sentence.For example, obligatory negation can combinewith the reduction do possessive pronoun: (5a) OPedro n?o chega aos seus calcanhares (lit: Peterdoes not get to the his heels, Peter is not a matchfor him) or with the dative pronoun resultingfrom the noun phrase restructuring: (5b) O Pedron?o te chega aos calcanhares (lit: Peter does notget you to the heels, Peter is not a match for you).In both cases, the pronouns appear inserted be-tween the characteristic (and fixed) elements ofthis frozen sentence.Figure 1.
Reference graph for class CPN5 Lexical Finite-State Transducers:building a reference graphThe lexicon-grammar of frozen sentences (i.e.
theset of matrices) cannot be directly applied to rec-ognize these expressions in texts.
Using INTEXlinguistic development platform (M. Silberztein1993, 2004)5 it is now possible to build lexicalfinite state transducer that can identify and tagfrozen sentences in the texts where they occur.This is done by building a reference graph foreach matrix.
Fig.
1 (above) shows a simplifiedversion of the reference graph for class CPN.This graph describes the formal sequences ofthe components of the frozen sentences.
In thisgraph, variables such as @X refer to the content ofthe matrix (at column X).
Furthermore, this graphis an enhanced transducer, where it is possible todefine variables containing strings of elementsand to reuse these variables in the transduction.5 http://www.nyu.edu/pages/linguistics/intex/.For example, in the top line of the graph, vari-able V (inside brackets) stores the verb (repre-sented by @C).
This is followed by a facultativesubgraph, for any eventual insertions (in theshadowed box), and it is then followed by vari-able CP1, containing the frozen prepositionalphrase.
The two variables are then reused in thetransduction (the output in bold, on the right),providing the multiword lexical entry and its ade-quate tags: $V $PC1,@C @F @G @H@I.V+CPN, so that for the frozen sentence: (7c)O Pedro foi na cantiga do Jo?o the system wouldproduce the tag: O Pedro {foi na can-tiga,ir em a cantiga.V+CPN} do Jo?o.Notice that the inflected form of the verb appear-ing in the text is lemmatized (after the coma) us-ing the @X variables to retrieve the lexical ele-ments in the matrix: in this case, the infinitive ir(to go); also in the lemma, the contraction (na) ofpreposition em and the definite article a is split inits component elements.
Finally, variables @D,@E, @K and @L function as switches, readingthe ?+?
or ?-?
of the corresponding columns in thematrix so that the remaining transitions are eitheractivated or collapsed.
These variables corre-spond to the syntactic properties of the entries.
Inthis way, it is possible to compile a detailed FSTthat complies with the syntactic restrictions de-scribed in the matrix.After building the reference graph, the systemis then able to compile the lexical transducer forthis class, exploring, for each line of the matrix,all the paths of the graph, and then determinizingand minimizing the resulting transducer.
Withthis methodology, the linguistic informationstored in the lexicon grammar is represented in-dependently from the lexical transducers and canbe regularly revised or updated.
The referencegraph can also be seen as describing linguistic in-formation regarding the surface disposition of thelexical elements entering the frozen sentences ofthe matrix.
Of course, strict formal coherence inneeded between the reference graph and the ma-trix.6 Application to texts: some experiencesIn order to evaluate the performance of the elec-tronic dictionary on real texts, experiences weremade using INTEX6 on three different texts.
Twosmaller texts, one obtained from the on-line edi-tion of the Expresso weekly newspaper 7 and theother a composite text 8 obtained from severalsources and used on the MorphOlimpics evalua-6 We also used an electronic dictionary of simplewords of Portuguese (Ranchhod et al 1999), from thepublic linguistic resources built by LabEL:http://label.ist.utl.pt.7 http://www.expresso.pt/.
This is a 976 Kb text, with83,269 (5,764 different) words.8 http://acdc.linguateca.pt/aval_conjunta/morfolimpiadas/ts_ml.txt [29-03-2004] This is a 215 Kb text, with35,053 (10,070 different) words.tion campaign for Portuguese 9.
We also used alarger, publicly available, journalistic corpus(CETEM-P?blico)10.
Tables 3 to 5 show resultsfrom the application of the modules of the fourlargest classes to these texts:Table 3 ?
Application of dictionary of frozensentences to text from Portuguese MorphOlimpicsClass DLE ?L M PrecisionC1 6 6 6 100 %C1P2 1 1 1 100 %C1PN 5 5 6 100 %CP1 5 5 5 100 %Totals 17 17 18 100 %Table 4 ?
Application of dictionary of frozensentences to text from Expresso newspaperClass DLE ?L M PrecisionC1 15 13 16 75 %C1P2 2 2 2 100 %C1PN 24 18 33 94 %CP1 37 32 39 100 %Totals 78 65 90 93 %Table 5 ?
Application of dictionary of frozensentences to text from CETEMP?blicoClass DLE ?L M PrecisionC1 541 217 939 78.4 %C1P2 104 61 157 99.0 %C1PN 434 96 1,357 96.5 %CP1 963 309 1,270 88.2 %Totals 2,042 638 3,723 89.6 %DLE ?
number of inflected lexical entries obtained from thetext; ?L ?
number of different lemmas; M ?
number ofmatched strings in text.These preliminary results must take into con-sideration the different size of the texts (numberof words) and the number of matched sequences.Several comparisons are thus made in Table 6(below).
The size (in number of simple words -W) of Expresso is approximately 2.4 times largerthan MorphOlimpics, and the size ofCETEMP?blico is 116 times larger than Expresso:W(Exp)=2.4xW(MO);W(Pub)=116xW(Exp).Naturally, the number of matches (M) does notincrease in the same proportion:9 http://acdc.linguateca.pt/aval_conjunta/morfolimpiadas/index.html [29-03-2004].10 http://www.linguateca.pt/CETEMPublico/.
Only thefirst fragment of this corpus was used.
This is a textfile of approximately 60 Mb, with 9.6 million (177,368different) words.M(Exp)=5xM(MO);M(Pub)=41.38xM(Exp).In fact, in the smaller texts, precision scores arenot very significant in view of the reduced num-ber of matches.
However, precision does not dropabruptly in the larger corpus (CETEM-P?blico),even if the size of the text and the number ofmatches increase significantly.Table 6 ?
Size of texts and scores of dictionary offrozen sentences (Classes C1, C1P2, C1PN, CP1)Text W ?W {S}MO 35,053 10,070 527Exp 83,269 5,764 8060Pub 9,632,623 177,368 447,125Text DLE  ?L M CM P(%)MO 17 17 18 18 100.0Exp 78 65 90 84 93.0Pub 2,042 638 3,725 3,336 89.6Text LexDiv LexDiv/P CMDiv CMDiv/P FS/S (?
)MO 1.000 1.000 1.059 1.059 3.416Exp 1.200 1.286 1.292 1.385 1.042Pub 3.201 3.574 5.229 5.839 0.746MO ?
MorphOlimpics; Exp ?
Expresso; Pub ?
CETEM-P?blico; W ?
number of simple words; ?W ?
different sim-ple words; {S} ?
sentences; DLE ?
lexical entries of frozensentences; ?L ?different lemmas of lexical entries; M ?matches; CM ?
correct matches;  P ?
Precision (%); LexDiv?
lexical diversity of DLE  (DLE/?L); CMDiv ?
lexical di-versity of correct matches (CM/?L); FS/S ?
average numberof frozen sentences per thousand sentences (?
).Another measure is the ratio between the lexi-cal diversity (LexDiv) of DLE (number of en-tries/different lemmas) and precision (P).
Thehigher the diversity of the DLE, the lower shouldbe the precision.
This, however, does not happen:even if the larger corpus shows lower DLE diver-sity, the ratio LexDiv/P is higher than in the twosmaller texts.
Therefore, lower precision inCETEMP?blico is not significant.
Similarly, onecould compare ratio between the lexical diversityof correct matches (correct matches/differentlemmas) and precision.
In theory, this ratioshould be smaller if the lexical diversity of cor-rect matches were higher.
Instead, CETEMP?blicoshows a higher CMDiv/P ratio than the twosmaller texts, therefore confirming the signifi-cance of the precision rate obtained with the fro-zen sentences?
dictionary.
Finally, we present, asan indication of frequency, the average number ofcorrectly matched frozen sentences per thousandsentences in each text.
This varies from 1.042 ?
(Expresso) to 0.746 ?
(CETEMP?blico).7 DiscussionAs it was said above, precision of the results isrelatively high.
In fact, most word combinationsin the dictionary of frozen sentences are unique,therefore, unambiguous combinations.
The finite-state approach adopted here is based on matchingstrings that could correspond to the characteristicword sequence of each frozen sentence.
How-ever, going through the concordances manually,some incorrect matches were detected and itwould be impossible to comment on all thosecases here, so only a few cases (all fromCETEMP?blico), will be discussed.Mostly, mismatches were due to morphologi-cally (orthographically) ambiguous words.
In thesentence: O general Ant?nio Ramalho Eanes est?de volta ?
cena pol?tica (General Ant?nio Rama-lho Eanes is back to the political scene) volta isnot verb, but a noun.
Still, this noun is a nomi-nalization of voltar (with a resultative aspectualvalue): voltar ?
cena = estar de volta a cena , sothat the overall meaning is stil the same.
Othernominalizations of the same kind were alsofounded, e.g.
usar da palavra = fazer uso da pa-lavra (to speak, in a formal situation).
Therefore,the study of frozen sentences with verbal predi-cates should be extended to their correspondingnominalizations (M. Gross 1986).
Another inter-esting aspect of this example is the fact that thenoun cena appears with the adjective pol?tica (po-litical, referring to politics).
In the dictionary, theentry of the frozen sentence was just voltar ?cena.
As one can see, it will still be necessary tocomplete the dictionary allowing C to be modi-fied by this kind of adjectives, with which theyform compound nouns (G. Gross 1988).Sometimes, the matched string is formally am-biguous with free constructions: Como resultado,a Comunidade d?
de si uma imagem de paralisia(Has a result, the Community gives of itself animage of paralysis).
The expression dar de si(class CP1) usually has a non-human subjectmeaning ?to break?,?to fall apart?.
In this case,however, we have a construction of the noun im-agem, with two distributionally free comple-ments, such as we find in the next example: Issodeu uma imagem negativa da comunidade (Thatgave a negative image of the community).
If itwere possible  to identify the noun phrase a Co-munidade and its head as a human noun, and toassociate a construction to the noun imagem, theambiguity would not arise, since the distributionalproperties stated in the CP1 matrix for dar de siwould prevent it from being tagged.
However,this goes well beyond the mere task of lexicalanalysis and it would require some parsing proce-dure to avoid the incorrect lexical tag.
Ambiguityalso arises from the syntactic operations under-went by a free sentence.
These transformationsmay produce strings that are superficially identi-cal to frozen sentences.
In the following example:[?]
e em vez de se dirigir ?s m?quinas, foi paraa rua que J?lia Pinho teve de caminhar [?]
(in-stead of approaching the machines, it was to thestreet that JP had to walk), we find a cleft sen-tence with the form foi of verb ser (to be).
Thissentence can be obtained from: JP teve de camin-har para a rua (JP had to walk to the street).Now, foi of verb ser (to be) is ambiguous with foiof verb ir (to go/walk) appearing in the frozensentence ir para a rua (lit: to go to the street, ?tobe fired?).
Again, ambiguous strings will not beresolved unless some syntactic parsing is done inorder to recognize transformations (in this case,clefting).The components of certain frozen sentencesmay, also, be particularly apt to become ambigu-ous strings.
For example, in the expression fazerdas suas (lit: to do of his-fem.pl., to do mischief)the possessive pronoun is a lexical constant, in-variable in both gender, and number, while agree-ing in person with the subjet: Fergie tornou  fazerdas suas (Fergie has done mischief again).
How-ever, the possessive often appears as a mere de-terminant on a free construction, e.g.
Jo?o Hon-rado nunca fez das suas certezas uma muralha dearrog?ncia (JH has never done of his certainties awall of arrogance).
One could think that peopletend avoid this kind of ambiguity, but it is not al-ways so: 6 out of 14 matched sequences fazer dassuas do not correspond to the frozen sentence.Likewise, with the expression partir do zero/nada(to start from scratch) 7 out of 14 matches corre-spond to the compound adverb a partir dozero/nada (from scratch).
Notice also that thisfrozen adverb, undoubtedly related with the fro-zen sentence but appearing with various verbs,also composed of a compound preposition a par-tir de (from), so the expression is three times am-biguous grammatically.
A similar ambiguity be-tween occurs between frozen sentence N0 dizerrespeito a N2 (N0 concerns to N1; 299 matches)and the related compound adverb no que diz re-speito a N (concerning N; 215 matches).Finally, while most frozen sentences constituteunique word combinations and present a clear-cut, single meaning (however difficult it may beto define it precisely), more rarely, some of themshow multiple meanings.
This is the case of en-trar em campo (to enter the field) or entrar emcena (enter the scene) used in some sports or intheater jargon and as a general metaphor to ?beginsome activity?.
These multi-meaning frozen sen-tences can be dealt with in the same way aspolisemic simple words, by multiplying the num-ber of entries in the lexicon-grammar.8 Final wordsBeing an on-going research, it is still too earlyto write ?conclusions?.
We believe that with thecontinuation of current work the size of the elec-tronic dictionary of frozen sentences of EuropeanPortuguese will still increase in a significant way.Present experiments on large corpora will un-doubtedly contribute to this goal.
Statisticalmethods for collecting frozen sentences should becombined with our more traditional method of pe-rusing dictionaries.Finite-state techniques prove to be adequatelyfor the lexical analysis of frozen sentences.
Fro-zen sentences constitute an important part of mul-tiword lexical units of any language.
Their identi-fication is an essential part of lexical analysis oftexts in view of many NLP applications.
Theypresent several, non-trivial difficulties to thistask.
They may be formed of non-adjacent wordsor allow some lexically constraint variation ofsome of their elements.
They allow several syn-tactic transformations, but those operations arelexically determined.
They may be ambiguouswith free sentences, depending on the linear ar-rangement of their components.
Their accuraterecognition may often depend on the previoussyntactic parsing of the sentence, which may in-clude checking the semantic attributes of nearbynoun phrases.
On the other hand, parsing dependson the availability of information regarding mul-tiword lexical units.AcknowledgementResearch for this paper was partially funded byFCT-MCES (project grant POSI/PLP/34729/99).ReferencesAra?jo-Vale, Oto, 2001.
Express?es Cristalizadas doPortugu?s do Brasil: Uma Proposta de Tipologia(Ph.D. Thesis).
Araquara (Brazil): UNESP.Chacoto, Luc?lia, 1994.
Estudo e Formaliza?
?o dasPropriedades L?xico-Sint?cticas das Express?esFixas Proverbiais.
(M.A.
Thesis).
Lisbon: FLUL.Fotopoulou, Aggeliki, 1993.
Une classification desphrases ?
compl?ments fig?s en grec moderne.
(PhD Thesis).
Paris : Univ.
Paris 8.Gaatone, David, 2000.
A quoi sert la notiond?
?expression fig?e?
?, in Buvet, P.-A., D. lePesant, M. Mathieu-Colas (eds.
), Lexique, Syntaxeet S?mantique, BULAG (hors s?rie), Besan?on :Centre Lucien Tesni?re/PUFC, pp.
295-308.Gross, Gaston, 1988.
Degr?e de figement des nomscompos?s.
Langages 90.
Paris : Larousse, pp.57-72.Gross, Gaston, 1996.
Les Expressions Fig?es enFran?ais.
Paris: Ophrys.Gross, Maurice 1982.
Une classification des phrases?fig?es?
du fran?ais.
Revue Qu?b?coise deLinguistique 11-2.
Montr?al : UQAM, p. 151-185.Gross, Maurice 1986.
Les nominalisationsd?expressions fig?es.
Langue Fran?aise 69, Paris:Larousse, pp.
64-84.Gross, Maurice 1988.
Les limites de la phrase fig?e.Langages 90.
Paris: Larousse, pp.
7-22.Gross, Maurice 1989.
Les expressions fig?es : unedescription des expressions fran?aises et sescons?quences th?oriques.
Rapport T?chnique 8.Paris : LADL-Univ.
Paris 7 / CERIL.Gross, Maurice 1996.
Lexicon-Grammar.
in K. Brownand J. Miller (eds.).
Concise Encyclopedia of Syn-tactic Theories.
Cambridge: Pergamon, pp.244-259.Jurafsky, Daniel and James H. Martin, 2000, Speechand Language Processing.
New Jersey: PrenticeHall.Lecl?re, Christian, 1995.
Sur une restructuration da-tive.
Language Research 31-1.
Seoul: LRI- SeoulNational Univ, pp.
179-198.Lecl?re, Christian, 2002.
Organization of the Lexicon-Grammar of French Verbs, Linguisticae Investiga-tiones 25-1, Amesterdam: John Benjamins Pub.Co., pp.
29-48.McKeown, Kathleen R. and Dragomir Rodev, 2000,Collocations, in Dale, R., H. Moisl and H.
Sommers(eds.)
Handbook of Natural Language Processing.New York: Marcel Dekker Inc., pp.
507-523.Mejri, Salah, 1997.
Le figment lexical.
Descriptionlinguistique et structuration s?mantique.
La Ma-nouba (Tunis) : Pub.
Fac.
Lettres.Mel?cuk, I, 1993.
La phraseologie et son r?le dansl?enseignment / apprentissage d?une langue?trang?re.
ELA, Didier ?rudition, pp.
82-113.Mello, Fernando R., 1986.
Nova Recolha de Prov?r-bios Portugueses e Outros Lugares-Comuns (2nd.ed.).
Lisbon: Ed.
Afrodite.Mogorr?n-Huerta, Pedro, 2002.
La expressividad enlas locuciones verbales espa?olas y francesas.
Ali-cante: Pub.
Univ.
Alicante.Moreira, Ant?nio, 1996.
Prov?rbios Portugueses.
Lis-bon : Ed.
Not?cias.Mutsimoto, Yuji, 2003.
Lexical Knowledge Acquisi-tion, in Miktov, R.
(ed.)
The Oxford Handbook ofComputational Linguistics.
Oxford: OUP, pp.395-413.Neves, Orlando, 2000.
Dicion?rio de Express?es Cor-rentes (2nd.
ed.)
Lisbon: Ed.
Not?cias.Ranchhod, Elisabete, Cristina Mota, Jorge Baptista,1999.
A Computational Lexicon for Automatic TextParsing, Proceedings of SIGLEX?99: ACL/NScF,pp.
74-80.Ranchhod, Elisabete M., 2003.
O lugar das express?es?fixas?
na gram?tica do Portugu?s.
in Castro, I. andI.
Duarte (eds.
), Raz?o e Emo?
?o, vol.
II, Lisbon:INCM, pp.
239-254.Santos, Ant?nio, 1990.
Novos Dicion?rios de Expres-s?es Idiom?ticas.
Lisbon: Jo?o S?
da Costa.Silberztein, Max, 1993.
Dictionnaires ?lectroniques etanalyse automatiques de textes : le syst?me INTEX.Paris : Masson.Silberztein, Max, 2004.
Intex Manual.http://intex.univ-fcomte.fr/downloads/Manual.pdfSim?es, Guilherme A., 1993.
Dicion?rio de Expres-s?es Populares Portuguesas.
Lisbon: D. Quixote.
