JMdict: a Japanese-Multilingual DictionaryJames BREENMonash UniversityClayton 3800, Australiajwb@csse.monash.edu.auAbstractThe JMdict project has at its aim thecompilation of a multilingual lexicaldatabase with Japanese as the pivotlanguage.
Using an XML structure designedto cater for a mix of languages and a rich setof lexicographic information, it has reacheda size of approximately 100,000 entries,with most entries having translations inEnglish, French and German.
Thecompilation involves information re-use,with the French and German translationsbeing drawn from separately maintainedlexicons.
Material from other languages isalso being included.
The file is freelyavailable for research purposes and forincorporation in dictionary applicationsoftware, and is available in several WWWserver systems.1 IntroductionThe JMdict project has as its primary goalthe compilation of a Japanese-multilingualdictionary, i.e.
a dictionary in which theheadwords are from the Japanese lexicon,and the translations are in several otherlanguages.
It may be viewed as a synthesisof a series of Japanese-Other Languagebilingual dictionaries, although, as discussedbelow, there is merit in having thisinformation collocated.The project grew out of, and has nowsubsumed, an earlier Japanese-Englishdictionary project (EDICT: ElectronicDictionary) (Breen, 1995, 2004a).
WithJapanese being an important language inworld trade, and with it being the secondmost common language used on the WWW,it is not surprising that there is considerableinterest in electronic lexical resources forJapanese in combination with otherlanguages.2 Project Goals and DevelopmentAs mentioned above, the JMdict projectgrew out of the bilingual EDICT dictionaryproject.
The EDICT project began in theearly 1990s with a relatively simple goal ofproducing a Japanese-English dictionary filethat could be used in basic softwarepackages to provide traditional dictionaryservices, as well as facilities to assist readingJapanese text.
The format was (and is) quitesimple, comprising lines of text consistingof a Japanese word written using kanjiand/or kana, the reading (pronunciation) ofthat word in kana, and one or more Englishtranslations.By the late 1990s, the file had outgrown itshumble origins, having reached over 50,000entries, and having spun off a parallelproject for recording Japanese proper nouns(see below).
The material has partly beendrawn from word lists, vocabulary lists, etc.in the public domain, and supplemented bymaterial prepared by large numbers of usersand other volunteers wishing to contribute.While it had been used in a variety ofsoftware systems, and as a source of lexicalmaterial in a number of projects, it was clearthat its structure was quite inadequate for thelexical demands being made by users.
Inparticular, it was not able to incorporate asuitable variety of information, nor representthe orthographical complexities of thesource language.
Accordingly, in 1999 itwas decided to launch a new dictionaryproject incorporating the information fromthe EDICT file, but expanded to includetranslations from other languages with theJapanese entries remaining as the pivots.The project goals were:a. a file format, preferably using arecognized standard, which would enableready access and parsing by a variety ofsoftware applications;b. the handling of orthographical andpronunciation variation within the singleentry.
This addressed a major problem withthe EDICT format, as many Japanese wordscan be written with alternative kanji andwith varying portions in kana (okurigana),and may have alternative pronunciations.The EDICT format required each variant tobe treated as a separate entry, which addedto the complexity of maintaining andextending the dictionary;c. additional and more appropriatelyassociated tagging of grammatical and otherinformation.
Certain information such as thepart of speech or the source language of loanwords had been added to the EDICT file inparentheses within the translation fields, butthe scope was limited and the informationcould not easily be parsed;d. provision for differentiationbetween different senses in the translations.While basic indication of polysemy hadbeen provided in the EDICT file byprepending (1), (2), etc.
to groups oftranslations, the result was difficult to parse.Also it did not support the case where asense or nuance was tied to a particularpronunciation, as occurs occasionally inJapanese;e. provision for the inclusion oftranslational equivalents from severallanguages.
The EDICT dictionary file wasbeing used in a number of countries, andseveral informal projects had begun todevelop equivalent files for Japanese andother target languages.
A small Japanese-German file (JDDICT) had been released inthe EDICT format.
There was considerableinterest expressed in having translations invarious languages collocated to enable suchthings as having a single reference file forseveral languages, cross-referencing ofentries, cross-language retrieval, etc.
as wellas acting as a focus for the possibledevelopment of translations for as yetunrepresented languages;f. provision for inclusion of examplesof the usage of words.
As the file expanded,many users of the file requested some formof usage examples to be associated with thewords in the file.
The EDICT format wasnot capable of supporting this;g. provision for cross-references torelated entries;h. continued generation of EDICT-format files.
As a large number of packagesand servers had been built around theEDICT format, continued provision ofcontent in this format was consideredimportant, even if the information onlycontained a sub-set of what was available.An early decision was to use XML(Extensible Markup Language) as a formatfor the JMdict file, as this was expected toprovide the appropriate flexibility in format,and was also expected to be supported byapplications, parsing libraries, etc.An examination was made of other availabledictionary formats to ascertain if a suitableformatting model was available.
It wasknown that commercial dictionarypublishers has well-structured databases oflexical information, and some were movingto XML, but none of the details wereavailable.
A large number of bilingualdictionary files and word lists were in thepublic domain; however in general they onlyused very simple structures, and none couldbe found which covered all the contentrequirements of the project.
The dictionarysection of the TEI (Text EncodingInitiative), which at the time of writing has awell-developed document structure forbilingual dictionaries, was at that stage quitelimited (Sperberg-McQueen et al 1999).Accordingly, an XML DTD (DocumentType Definition) was developed which wastailored to the requirements of the project.The EDICT file was parsed and reformattedinto the JMdict structure, and at the sametime, many of the orthographical variantswere identified and merged.
The initialrelease of the DTD and XML-format filetook place in May 1999.
At that stage, itcontained the English translations from theEDICT file and the German translationsfrom the JDDICT file.
As described below,it has been expanded considerably sincethen, both in terms of number of entries andalso in multi-lingual coverage.3 Project StatusThe JMdict file was first released in 1999,and updated versions are released 3-4 timeseach year along with versions of the EDICTfile, which is generated at the same timefrom the same data files.
The file now hasover 99,300 entries, i.e.
the size of amedium-large printed dictionary, and thegrowth in numbers of entries is nowrelatively slow, with most updates dealingwith corrections and expansion of existingentries.The file is available under a liberal licencethat allows its use for almost any purposewithout fee.
The only requirement is that itsuse be fully acknowledged and that any filesdeveloped from it continue under the samelicence conditions.4 StructureThe JMdict XML structure contains oneelement type: <entry>, which in turncontains sequence number, kanji word, kanaword, information and translation elements.The sequence number is used formaintenance and identification.The kanji word and kana word elementscontain the two forms of the Japaneseheadwords; the former is used forrepresentations containing at least one kanjicharacter, while the latter is forrepresentations in kana alone.
The kanaword is effectively the pronunciation, but isalso an important key for indexing thedictionary file, as Japanese dictionaries areusually ordered by kana words.
Theminimum content of these fields is a singleword in the kana word element.
In addition,each entry may contain information aboutthe words (unusual orthographical variant,archaic kanji, etc.)
and frequency of useinformation.
The latter needs to beassociated with the actual words rather thanthe entry as a whole because somecombinations of kanji and kana words areused more frequently than others.
(Forexample, ???
and ???
areorthographical variants of the one word(aikid?
), but the former is more common.
)The kana used in the elements followsmodern Japanese orthography, i.e.
hiraganais used for native Japanese words, andkatakana for loan words, onomatopoeicwords, etc.In most cases an entry has just one kanji andone kana word (approx.
75%), or one kanaword alone (15%).
In about 10% of entriesthere are multiple words in one of theelements.
In some cases a kana reading canonly be associated with a subset of the kanjiwords in the entry.
For example, soyokaze(????
: breeze) can be written either??
or ???
(the latter is more commonas ??
is a non-standard reading of the ?kanji).
However ??
can also bepronounced bifuu (???)
with the samemeaning, but clearly this pronunciationcannot be associated with the ???
form,as the kana portion is read "soyo".
XMLdoes not provide an elegant method forindicating a restricted mapping betweenportions of two elements, so when such arestriction is required, additional tags areused with each kana word supplying thekanji word with which it may be validlyassociated.The information element contains generalinformation about the Japanese word or theentry as a whole.
The contents allow forISO-639 source language codes (for loanwords), dialect codes, etymology,bibliographic information and updatedetails.The translation area consists of one or moresense elements that contain at a minimum asingle gloss.
Associated with each sense is aset of elements containing part of speech,cross-reference, synonym/antonym, usage,etc.
information.
Also associated with thesense may be restriction codes tying thesense to a subset of the Japanese words.
Forexample, ??
can be pronounced suiki(???)
and mizuge (???
); bothmeaning "moisture", but the former alonecan also mean "dropsy".The gloss element has an attribute statingthe target language of the translation.
In itsabsence it is assumed the gloss is in English.There is also an attribute stating the gender,if for example, the part-of-speech is a nounand the gloss is in a language with genderednouns.
Figure 1 shows a slightly simplifiedexample of an entry.
The <ke_pri> and<re_pri> elements indicate the word is amember of a particular set of commonwords.<entry><ent_seq>1206730</ent_seq><k_ele><keb>??</keb><ke_pri>ichi1</ke_pri></k_ele><r_ele><reb>???
?</reb><re_pri>ichi1</re_pri></r_ele><sense><pos>&n;</pos><gloss>school</gloss><gloss g_lang="nl" g_gend="fg">school</gloss><gloss g_lang="fr" g_gend="fg">?cole</gloss><gloss g_lang="ru" g_gend="fg">????
?</gloss><gloss g_lang="de" g_gend="fg">Schule</gloss><gloss g_lang="de"g_gend="fg">Lehranstalt</gloss></sense></entry>Fig.
1: Example JMdict entryThe potential to have multiple kanji andkana words within an entry brings attentionto the issues of homonymy, homographyand polysemy, and the policies for handlingthese, in particular the criteria for combiningkanji and kana words into a single entry.
AsJapanese has a comparatively limited set ofphonemes there are a large number ofhomophonous words.
For example, overtwenty different words have the kanarepresentation ?????
(k?j?).
If weregard homography as only applying towords written wholly or partly with kanji,there are relatively few cases of it, howeverthey do exist, e.g.
??
when read?????
(senry?)
means a comic poem,but when read ?????
(kawayanagi)means a variety of willow tree.The combining rule that has been applied inthe compilation of the JMdict file is asfollows:a. treat each basic entry as a tripletconsisting of: kanji representation, matchingkana representation, senses;b. if for any basic entries two or moremembers of the triplet are the same,combine them into the one entry;i. if the entries differ in kanjior kana representation, include theseas alternative forms;ii.
if the entries differ in sense,treat as a case of polysemy;c. in other cases leave the entriesseparate.This rule has been applied successfully in amajority of cases.
The main problems arisewhere the meanings are similar or related, asin the case of the entries: (?
?, ??
?, toseparate; to set free; to turn loose) and(?
?, ??
?, to part; to divide; toseparate), where the kana words are thesame and the meanings overlap.
Japanesedictionaries are divided on ??
and ??
;some keeping them as separate entries, andothers having them as the one entry with twomain senses.
(The two words derive from acommon source.
)5 Parts of Speech and Related IssuesAs languages differ in their parts of speech(POS), the recording of those details inbilingual dictionaries can be a problem (Al-Kasimi, 1977).
Traditionally bilingualdictionaries involving Japanese avoidrecording any POS information, leaving it tothe user to deduce that information from thetranslation and examples (if any).
In theearly stages of the EDICT project, POSinformation was deliberately kept to aminimum, e.g.
indicating where a verb wastransitive or intransitive when this was notapparent from the translation, mainly toconserve storage space.
As there are anumber of advantages in having POSinformation marked in an electronicdictionary file, a POS element was includedin the JMdict structure, and publiclyavailable POS classifications were used topopulate much of the file.
About 30% ofentries remain to be classified; mostly nounsor short noun phrases.In the interests of saving space an earlydecision had been made to avoid listingderived forms of words.
For example, theJapanese adjective ??
(takai) meaning"high, tall, expensive" has derived forms of??
(takasa) "height" and ??
(takaku)"highly".
As this process is very regular,many Japanese dictionaries do not carryentries for the derived forms, and somebilingual dictionaries follow suit.
Anothersuch example is the common verb form,sometimes called a "verbal noun", which iscreated by adding the verb ??
(suru) "todo" to appropriate nouns.
The verb "tostudy" is ????
(benky?suru) where??
is a noun meaning "study" in thiscontext.
Again, Japanese dictionaries oftendo not include these forms as headwords,preferring to indicate in the body of an entrythat the formation is possible.The omission of such derived forms meansthat care needs to be taken whenconstructing the translations so that the useris readily able to identify the appropriatetranslation of one of the derived forms.In a multilingual context, the omission ofderived forms can have other problems.
Therecording of ??
verbs only in their nounbase form has been reported to lead to somediscomfort among German users, as Germanlanguage orthographical conventioncapitalizes the first letters of nouns but notverbs (the WaDokuJT file has ??
verbs asseparate entries for this reason).6 Inclusion and Maintenance of MultipleLanguagesAs mentioned above, part of the interest inhaving entries with translations in a range oflanguages came from the compilation of anumber of dictionary files based on orsimilar to the EDICT file.
There are anumber of issues associated with theinclusion of material from other dictionaryfiles, in particular those relating to thecompilation policies: coverage, handling ofinflected forms, etc.
(Breen, 2002) There isalso the major issue of the editing andmaintenance of the material, which has thepotential to become more complex as eachlanguage is incorporated.The approach taken with JMdict has been to:a. maintain a core Japanese-Englishfile with a well-documented structure andset of inclusion and editing policies;b. encourage the development andmaintenance of equivalent files in otherlanguages paired with Japanese, which candraw on the JMdict/EDICT material asrequired;c. periodically build the completemulti-lingual JMdict from the differentcomponents.This approach has proved successful in thatit has separated the compilation of the filefrom the ongoing editing of the components,and has left the latter in the hands of thosewith the skills and motivation to perform thetask.At the time of writing, the JMdict file hasover 99,300 entries (Japanese and English),of which 83,500 have German translations,58,000 have French translations, 4,800 haveRussian translations and 530 have Dutchtranslations.
A set of approximately 4,500Spanish translations is being prepared, withthe prospects that some 20,000 will beavailable shortly.The major sources of these additionaltranslations are:a. French translations from twoprojects:i. approximately 17,500entries have come from theDictionnaire fran?ais-japonais Project(Desperrier, 2002), a project totranslate the most common Japanesewords from the EDICT File intoFrench;ii.
a further 40,500 entriesdrawn from the ??????
(French-Japanese ComplementationProject) athttp://francais.sourceforge.jp/ (Thisproject is also based on the EDICTfile.)b.
German translations from theWaDokuJT Project (Apel, 2002).
This is alarge file of over 300,000 entries; however,unlike JMdict it includes many phrases,proper nouns and inflected forms of verbs,etc.
The overlap of coverage with JMdict isquite high, leading to the large number ofentries that have been included in the JMdictfile.One of the issues that can lead to problemswhen incorporating translations from otherproject files is that of aligning thetranslations when an entry has severalsenses.
In the case of the Frenchtranslations, the project coordinator hasmarked the translations of polysemousentries with a sense code, thus enabling thetranslations to be inserted correctly whencompiling the final file.
For other languages,the translations are being appended to the setEnglish translations.
The appropriatehandling of multiple senses is an item offuture work.7 Examples of Word UsageWhen the project was begun and the DTDdesigned, it was intended that sets ofbilingual examples of usage of the entrywords would be included.
For this reason an<example> element was associated witheach sense to allow for such examplephrases, sentences, etc, to be included.In practice, a quite different approach hasbeen taken.
With the availability since 2001of a large corpus of parallelJapanese/English sentences (Tanaka, 2001),it was decided to keep the corpus intact, andinstead provide for the association ofselected sentences from the corpus withdictionary entries via dictionary applicationsoftware (Breen, 2003b).
This strategy,which required the corpus to be parsed toextract a set of index words for eachsentence, has proved effective at theapplication level.
It also has the advantageof decoupling the maintenance of thedictionary file from that of the examplecorpus.8 Related ProjectsApart from a few small word lists involvingseveral European languages, the only othermajor current project attempting to compilea comprehensive multilingual database is thePapillon project (e.g.
Boitet et al 2002).
Seehttp://www.papillon-dictionary.org/ for afull list of publications.
The Papillon designinvolves linkages based on word-senses asproposed in (S?rasset, 1994) with the finerlexical structure based on Meaning-TextTheory (MTT) (Mel'cuk, 1984-1996).
At thetime of writing the Papillon database is stillin the process of being populated withlexical information.Closely related to the JMdict project is theJapanese-Multilingual Named EntityDictionary (JMnedict) project.
This is adatabase of some 400,000 Japanese placeand person names, and non-Japanese namesin their Japanese orthographical form, alongwith a romanized transcription of theJapanese (Breen, 2004b).
Somegeographical names have Englishdescriptions: cape, island, etc.
which are inthe process of being extended to otherlanguages.
The JMnedict file is in an XMLformat with a similar structure to JMdict.Another multilingual lexical database isKANJIDIC2 (Breen, 2004c), which containsa wide range of information about the13,039 kanji in the JIS X 0208, JIS X 0212and JIS X 0213 character standards.
Amongthe information for each kanji are the set ofreadings in Japanese, Chinese and Korean,and the broad meanings of each kanji inEnglish, German and Spanish.
A set ofPortuguese meanings is being prepared.
Thedatabase is in an XML format.9 ApplicationsWhile there are a number of experimentalsystems using the JMdict file, the onlyapplication system using the fullmultilingual file at present is the Papillonproject server.
Figure 2 shows the displayfrom that server when looking up the word??.
The author's WWWJDIC server(Breen, 2003a) uses the Japanese-Englishcomponents of the file.
Figure 3 is an extractfrom the WWWJDIC display for the word?
?, which is an example of an entry withmultiple kana words, and senses restrictedby reading.
(The (P) markers indicate themore common readings.)Fig.
2: Papillon example for ??Fig.
3: WWWJDIC example for ?
?The EDICT Japanese-English dictionaryfile, which is generated from the samedatabase as the JMdict file, continues to be amajor non-commercial Japanese-Englishlexical resource, and is used in a largenumber of applications and servers, as wellas in a number of research projects.10 ConclusionThe JMdict project has successfullydeveloped a multilingual lexical databaseusing Japanese as the pivot language.
Indoing so, it has reached a lexical coveragecomparable to medium-large printeddictionaries, and its components are used ina wide range of applications and researchprojects.
It has also demonstrated thepotential for re-use of material from relatedand cooperating lexicon projects.
The filesof the JMdict project are readily availablefor use by researchers and developers, andhave the potential to be a significant lexicalresource in a multilingual context.ReferencesAl-Kasami, A.M. 1977 Linguistics andBilingual Dictionaries, E.J.
Brill,LeidenApel, U.
2002.
WaDokuJT - A Japanese-German Dictionary Database,Papillon 2002 Seminar, NII, TokyoBoitet, C, Mangeot-Lerebours, M,S?rasset, G. 2002 The PAPILLONproject: cooperatively building amultilingual lexical data-base toderive open source dictionaries &lexicons, Proc.
of the 2nd WorkshopNLPXML 2002, Post COLING 2002Workshop, Ed.
Wilcock, Ide &Romary, Taipei, Taiwan.Breen, J.W.
1995.
Building an ElectronicJapanese-English Dictionary, JSAAConference, Brisbane.Breen, J.W.
2002.
Practical Issues andProblems in Building a MultilingualLexicon, Papillon 2002 Seminar, NII,Tokyo.Breen, J.W.
2003a.
A WWW JapaneseDictionary, in "Language Teaching atthe Crossroads", Monash AsiaInstitute, Monash Univ.
Press.Breen, J.W.
2003b.
Word UsageExamples in an ElectronicDictionary, Papillon 2003 Seminar,Sapporo.Breen, J.W.
2004a.
The EDICT Project,http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/~jwb/edict.htmlBreen, J.W.
2004b.
TheENAMDICT/JMnedict Project,http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/~jwb/enamdict_doc.htmlBreen, J.W.
2004c.
The KANJIDIC2Project,http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/~jwb/kanjidic2/Desperrier, J-M. 2002.
Analysis of theresults of a collaborative project forthe creation of a Japanese-Frenchdictionary, Papillon 2002 Seminar,NII, Tokyo.Mel'cuk, I, et al 1984-1996.
DEC:dictionnaire explicatif etcombinatoire du fran?aiscontemporain, recherches lexico-s?mantiques, Vols I-IV, MontrealUniv.
Press.S?rasset, G. 1994.
SUBLIM: un Syst?meUniversel de Bases LexicalesMultilingues et NADIA: sasp?cialisation aux bases lexicalesinterlingues par acceptions, (DoctoralThesis) Joseph Fourier University,GrenobleSperberg-McQueen, C.M.. and Burnard,L.
(eds.)
1999.
Guidelines forElectronic Text Encoding andInterchange.
Oxford Univ.
Press.Tanaka, Y.
2001.
Compilation of aMultilingual Parallel CorpusPACLING 2001, Japan.
