Gene/protein/family name recognition in biomedical literatureAsako Koike 1,21Central Research Laboratory, Hitatchi,Ltd.1-280 Higashi-koigakubo Kokubunji,Tokyo, 185-8601akoike@hgc.jpToshihisa Takagi22University of Tokyo.
Dept.
of Comp.Biol.
Graduate School of Frontier ScienceKiban-3A1(CB01) 1-5-1 Kashiwanoha Ka-shiwa-shi Chiba 277-8561, Japantt@k.u-tokyo.ac.jpAbstractRapid advances in the biomedical field haveresulted in the accumulation of numerous ex-perimental results, mainly in text form.
To ex-tract knowledge from biomedical papers, oruse the information they contain to interpretexperimental results, requires improved tech-niques for retrieving information from thebiomedical literature.
In many cases, since theinformation is required in gene units, recogni-tion of the named entity is the first step ingathering and using knowledge encoded inthese papers.
Dictionary-based searching isuseful for retrieving biological information ingene units.
However, since many genes in thebiomedical literature are written using am-biguous names, such as family names, weneed a way of constructing dictionaries.
In ourlaboratory, we have developed a gene namedictionary:GENA and a family name diction-ary.
The latter contains ambiguous hierarchi-cal gene names to compensate GENA.
Inaddition, to address the problem of trivialgene name variations and polysemy, heuristicswere used to search gene/protein/familynames in MEDLINE abstracts.
Using thesealgorithms to match dictionary andgene/protein/family names, about 95, 91, and89% of protein/gene/family names in abstractson Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Drosophilamelanogaster, and Homo sapiens were de-tected with a precision of 96, 92, and 94%, inrespective organisms.
The effect of ourgene/protein/family recognition method onprotein-interaction and protein-function ex-traction using these dictionaries is also dis-cussed.1 IntroductionWith the increasing number of biomedical papers,and their electronic publication in NCBI-PUBMED,there is a growing focus on information retrieval fromtexts.
In particular, the recent development of proce-dures for large-scale experiments, such as yeast-twohybrid screening, mass spectrometry, and DNA/proteinmicroarrays, has brought about many changes in theknowledge required by biologists and chemists.
Becausethey produce large amounts of data on genes at one time,biologists require extensive knowledge of numerousgenes to analyze the data obtained and these are beyondthe capability of manual acquisition from the vast bio-medical literature.
Since, in many cases, the main objec-tive of text processing is extraction of protein-protein/gene interaction or gene function, the first prob-lem to solve is gene/protein/compound name recogni-tion.
To date, various methods of protein/gene nametaggers have been proposed, mainly relating to Homosapiens.
These methods can be roughly divided intorule-based approaches (Fukuda et al 1998), statisticalapproaches, including machine learning (Collier et al2000, Nobata et al 1999), dictionary/knowledge-basedapproaches Humphreys et al 2000, Jenssen et al 2001,Koike et al 2003), or a combination of these approaches(Tanabe and Wilbur, 2002).
Since merely recognizinggene/protein names is insufficient to keep the extractedinformation in gene order, dictionary-based name rec-ognition appears useful for assigning the locus of theextracted gene/protein name.
Naming conventions arequite different for different organisms.
Therefore, anappropriate approach is required for each organism.Association for Computational Linguistics.Linking Biological Literature, Ontologies and Databases, pp.
9-16.HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop: Biolink 2004,There are three main problems in dictionary-basedsearching: (1) the existence of multi-sense words; (2)variations in gene names; and (3) the existence of am-biguous names.
The first problem is mainly seen insymbol (abbreviated) types.
For example, HAC1 is asynonym for both ?tripartite motif-containing 3?
and?hyperpolarization activated cyclic nucleotide-gatedpotassium channel 2?
in H. sapiens.
Further, some genenames, especially in Drosophila melanogaster, have thesame spelling with verb(lack, ...), adjective(white, yel-low...), common nouns (spot, twin, ...), and prepositions(of, ...).
The second problem is trivial variations in genenames (orthographical, morphological, syntactic, lexico-semantic, insertion/deletion, permutation, or pragmatic).For example, ?mitogen-activated protein kinase 1?
and?protein kinase mitogen-activated, 1?, ?NIK ser-ine/threonine protein kinase?, and ?NIK protein kinase?indicate the same gene.
The third problem is caused byambiguous expression of the gene name in the text.
Theproblems of multi-sense words and the ambiguity arewell summarized by Tuason et al (2004)In many cases, the family name is used instead ofthe gene name.
A unique gene locus may not have beenspecified, especially for genes with multiple paralogs, orto avoid repeating the same expression, the family namemay frequently be used.
For example, in 1996, the ?14-3-3?
family name was counted 107 times in abstractsusing mesh terms for human, while ?14-3-3 alpha, beta,delta, gamma?
gene name expressions did not appear atall.
Thus, a family name dictionary is also requiredalong with a gene name dictionary to specify the genelocus or loci.
In this study, the above-mentioned prob-lems were, as far as possible, solved simply using heu-ristics.2 Construction of the gene name diction-aryThe gene name dictionary, GENA, was constructedusing the major databases, GenAtlas(http://www.dsi.univ-paris5.fr/genatlas/), HUGO(http://www.gene.ucl.ac.uk/hugo/), LocusLink(http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/LocusLink/), GDB(http://gdb.weizmann.ac.il/index.shtml), SGD(http://www.yeastgenome.org/), MIPS(http://mips.gsf.de/genre/proj/yeast/index.jsp), Worm-base (http://www.wormbase.org/), OMIM(http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/omim/), MGI(http://www.informatics.jax.org/), RGD(http://rgd.mcw.edu/), FlyBase(http://flybase.bio.indiana.edu/), S. pombe geneDB(http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Projects/S_pombe/), SWISS-PROT, TrEMBL (http://us.expasy.org/sprot/), and PIR(http://pir.georgetown.edu/) for Schizosaccharomycespombe, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Caenorhabditis ele-gans, Drosophila melanogaster, Mus musculus, Rattusnorvegicus, and Homo sapiens, respectively.
A merge ofeach database entry was done using the ?official sym-bol?
or ORF name and link data provided by each entryand the protein-sequence data entry.
The priority of thedatabase was given in advance.
For example, in H.sapiens, HUGO, Locuslink, GDB, and GenAtlas wereregistered in this order, using the merged entry for thesame ?official symbol?.
LocusLink?s ?preferred symbol?,which is not yet administered by HUGO, was also used.Merging the entries in SWISS-PROT, TrEMBL, andthese registered data was done using the link data for?Genew?
provided by SWISS-PROT and TrEMBL.
Therest of the entries were merged using the protein-IDs forLocusLink, SWISS-PROT, and TrEMBL.
For example,LocusLink provides unique representative mRNA andprotein sequences, and related sequences belonging tothe same gene.
If the protein-sequence entry for SWISS-PROT and TrEMBL matched with any of these se-quence entries for LocusLink, the entries were merged.Linking these registered data with the PIR entries wasalso done using protein-ID entries.
In principle, for allorganisms, protein sequences without ?official or pre-ferred symbols?
were not registered.
The entries con-sisted of ?official symbols?
and ?official full names?,which were provided by representative institutions, suchas HUGO, for each organism, and ?synonyms?
and?gene products?.
S. cerevisiae and C. elegans do nothave ?official full names?.
The distinction between theseelements of each ?name?
simply depends on the ?itemheadings?
for each database.
Although gene names andtheir product names are registered separately for onelocus, and whether the entry?s product is protein orRNA is also registered in GENA, we do not distinguishbetween them here.
Hereafter, we do not distinguish?gene product?
from the gene name ?synonym?.
Unfor-tunately, databases contain numerous mistakes or inap-propriate gene/protein names.
The reliability of eachsynonym was judged according to the database source.To meet our information extraction purposes, only genenames over a certain reliability can be used.
Meaning-less names (ex.
hypothetical protein), higher conceptnames (ex.
membrane protein) and apparently wrongnames (ex.
OK ) were removed from the data semi-automatically using word-net vocabularies and termfrequencies of all abstracts of one year.
In an evaluationof this study, synonym names entered only in TrEMBLor PIR, except for names manually checked in our labo-ratory, were removed due to their low reliability.In addition to these data, we added synonym namesusing the following methods.
(1) Abbreviations ofsynonyms were added using an abbreviation extractionalgorithm (Schwartz and Hears, 2003).
(2) Plausiblegene names were extracted from the subject and objectnoun of some verbs, which restricted such subjects andobjects as ?phosphorylate?
and ?methylate?
(both sub-jects must be protein/gene/family names).
These are by-products of protein-interaction extraction in our project.The corresponding ?official symbol?
was searched usinga partial match of registered names, and finally waschecked manually.Compound names were gathered from the index ofthe biochemical dictionary, KEGG(http://www.genome.ad.jp/kegg/kegg2.html), meshterms, and UMLS(http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/)  and were reg-istered in GENA.
Some high-concept terms were re-moved manually.
Compound name searches were notevaluated in this study.
Currently (January, 2004), itcontains about 920,000 registered gene/protein namesand 210,000 compound names.GENA was managed using Postgres, which pro-vides command line searching and Web searching(http://www.gena.ontology.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp).
Searchescan be done considering the word order replacement oflong gene names using indexing all words consistingnames.3 Construction of family name dictionaryThe construction of the family name dictionary wasdone using SWISS-PROT family names, PIR familynames, INTERPRO family names(http://www.ebi.ac.uk/interpro/), gene/protein names inGENA, and clustering sequence similarities.
These havehierarchical named entities.
For example, ?MAPK1?
isa member of the ?MAPK family?
and the ?MAPK fam-ily?
is a member of the family of the ?Ser/Thr proteinkinase family?
; in turn, this family is a member of ?pro-tein kinase?, and ?protein kinase?
is a type of ?kinase?.Although ?family?
is usually used to indicate ?similarsequence groups that probably have the same origin?,sometimes it is also used to mean ?sequence groups thathave almost the same function?.
In this paper, we use?family?
as ?ambiguous gene/protein names that indi-cate similar sequences or biological functions?.
Plausi-ble family names based on gene names are the commonparts of multiple gene names, such as ?MAPK?
of?MAPK[number]?, ?14-3-3?
of ?14-3-3 [Greek alpha-bet[alpha-delta/alphabet[a-d]]?,  ?protein kinase?
of?Tyr protein kinase?
and ?Ser/Thr protein kinase?, and?kinase?
of ?Inositol kinase?
and ?protein kinase?.
Thebackbone of the family hierarchy was constructed basedon the INTERPRO family hierarchy.
As far as possible,the remaining hierarchy was manually constructed con-sidering sequence similarities, using Markov clustering(Enright et al 2002) based on all-versus-all blast.
Thehierarchy has a directed acyclic graph structure.
Thefamily names are across organims and the family namedictionary is common to each organism.
The familydatabase is available from http://marine.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp:8080/Dict/family.
Currently (January, 2004),it contains about 16,000 entries and 70,000 registerednames.4 Gene/protein/family name searches us-ing a devised trieA gene/protein/family name search of texts was car-ried out using a devised trie for faster gene name search-ing.
The trie was provided for each organism separately.The core terms implemented for the trie were generatedbased on GENA.
Here, the following main heuristicswere used.
(1) Special characters are replaced by a space.
(2) In principle, both numerical and Roman numer-als are prepared.
(3) The space before a numerical number is removed.However, if the previous character before the space is anumber, the space is not removed (e.g., 14-3-3 is ?14 33?).
(4) With space and without space terms are used for?Greek alphabet and alphabet a/A, b/B, c/C, ...?.
Forexample, ?14 3 3 alpha, 14 3 3alpha, 14 3 3 a, 14 3 3a?.
(5) Common words at the end of gene names, suchas ?protein?, ?gene?, ?sub-family?, ?family?, and?group?, are removed.
However, if the meaning ofnames is changed with/without these words, they areleft.
For example, ?T-cell surface protein?
indicates?protein on the T-cell surface?, while ?T-cell surface?usually indicates ?the surface of the T-cell?, and remov-ing ?protein?
from ?memory-related protein?
causesfaulty recognition of ?memory-related function?
as?memory related /gene-name?
?function?.
When ?pro-tein?, ?gene?, ?sub-family?, ?group?, and ?family?
ap-pear within gene names, gene words with and withoutthese words are generated.
(6) For symbol-type names (less than seven charac-ters), the initial of the organism is added to the spelt-outtype.
For example, in MAPK1 for H. sapiens, hMAPK1and h MAPK1 are used.
For S. cerevisiae, the proteinname is generated by adding ?p?
at the end of the name.For example, the protein of STE7 is STE7p.
For muta-tions of D. melanogaster, + added names are used.
Forexample, lt+ for lt.(7) All names are converted into small charactersand plurals are also generated.
Some names are ?casesensitive?
and some require ?all capital letters?.
In prin-ciple, when the name is the common spelling of a?common noun, adverb, or adjective?, ?all capital letternames?
are adopted in H. sapiens, M. musculus, and R.norvegicus (using ?word net vocabularies?
with lessthan five characters.
Word length is limited to removewords that happen to have the same spelling but withoutremoving biological names registered in the word net).
?All capital letters names?
were recognized in the trie.Case-sensitive words such as cAMP and CAMP wereselected experientially and checked after the trie search.Since many of Drosophila melanogaster genes have thesame spelling with verb, adjective, common nouns, andpreposition.
These gene names are replaced by ?genename + specified names?
using word-net vocabulariesto decrease false positive.
For example, the gene name?yellow?
is replaced by ?yellow locus?, ?yellow gene?,?yellow protein?, ?yellow allele?...
etc.The trie search starts from the next characters after a?space?, ?-?, ?/?, or ?period?
or the head of sentence.When multiple gene names are hit in duplicate, thelongest name ID is outputted.
When specific terms, suchas ?antagonist?, ?receptor?, ?cell?, and ?inhibi-tor?, ....are next to the gene name, the hit gene name IDis not outputted, since these indicate differentgene/protein names or are not gene/protein names.
Also,when terms such as ?promoter?
and ?mutant?
are lo-cated next to the gene name, they do not show thegene/protein/family themselves.
However, for our pur-poses of extracting the genetic interaction, they aretreated the same as gene/protein/family names.
Specificterms such as ?number?
are located before the genename and the hit gene name ID is not outputted sincethey are multi-sense words and, in most cases, are notgene/protein names.
Parentheses are also speciallytreated, so ?mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK)1?
--> is recognized as ?mitogen activated proteinkinase 1 (MAPK1)?.
The continuous gene descriptionsuch as ?GATA-4/5/6?
is also specially treated asshown in Figure 1.
If the gene names are synonyms ofmulti-genes, the multiple gene IDs are outputted in thisstage.Figure 1.
The schematic drawing of a devised trie.5 Resolving multi sense wordsTo resolve the problem of multi-sense words, weused information from the whole text.
When the hitname is shorter than a certain gene name length (sevencharacters for H. sapiens; the length is different for eachorganism), there is a possibility that the hit name is anabbreviation of another word (not only gene names, butalso an experimental method or name of an apparatus).To avoid false-positive words as far as possible, weused the following heuristics in M. musculus, R.norvegicus, and H. sapiens.1) If the corresponding full name, or a name longerthan six characters, is written in the same abstract,the hit gene ID is used.When the full name and abbreviation pairs are writ-ten in the abstract as ?plausible full name (the hitname)?
or ?plausible full name [the hit name]?, the fol-lowing procedures are carried out.2) If the full/long name is a complete match for thesynonyms or full name of the corresponding ID, the hitgene ID is used.3) If the full/long name is not a complete match forthese corresponding IDs using the abbreviation extrac-tion algorithm (Schwartz and Hearst, 2003), but itsspelling consists of words used in any name of the cor-responding ID, the hit ID is adopted.
If not, the hit ID isdiscarded (i.e., the full/long name considering the re-placement of the word order).4) If information on full names or long names is notfound in the abstract, a key-word search of all the ab-stracts is carried out.
If at least one key word is detected,the ID is used.The summary of these steps were shown in Figure 2.
(The numbers in Fig.2 correspond to the above headnumbers.
)However, treatment (2) is not sufficient in some casesbecause some abbreviations are written only once forone family kind.
For example, in PUBMED-ID8248212, ...?the recently described TAP (transporterassociated with antigen processing) genes have beenmapped approximately midway between DP and DQ.
...In addition to the alleles of TAP1 that have been de-scribed, others were identified during this study.??TAP1?
is the synonym for ?transporter 1, ATP-bindingcassette, sub-family B (MDR/TAP)?, and ?transientreceptor potential cation channel, subfamily C, member4 associated protein.?
In most cases, the full name iswritten only once for the same family.
In this case, theformer (?transporter 1, ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B (MDR/TAP)?)
is correct.
Accordingly, the fullname and abbreviation pair ?TAP?
without the numberis also checked.
Since all vocabularies (?transporter?,?associated?, ?antigen?, ?processing?)
are componentsof synonyms of TAP1, the TAP1 is recognized by?transporter 1, ATP-binding cassette, and sub-family B(MDR/TAP)?.
In considering syntactic variations, someGATA-4/5/6 expression constructs ...  GAT45//6A If next word is not stop word, the ID isoutputted.GHS007219GHS007220PGHS007219/GHS007221/GHS007222space,hyphen, .........GHS007221prepositions such as ?of?
and ?with?, and frequentlyused words such as ?sub-family?
and ?family?, areskipped in this process.
Further regarding the lexico-semantic pattern, as far as possible, adjectives andnouns are provided for each vocabulary using word-netvocabularies and UMLS.Figure 2.
The schematic drawing of each gene names.With this treatment, only when pairs of full names, orclose to the full name, and abbreviations appear, thedistinctions between some synonyms are completed.
Insome cases, the name belongs to the same family.
Forexample, LRE2 is a synonym for ?LINE retrotranspos-able element 2?
and ?LINE retrotransposable element3?.
In this case, the distinction between them is veryfine and seems unimportant.
In some abstracts, fullnames are not written in the text.
To resolve this issue,we used key words for each gene, which were selectedfrom all words/terms (continuous words) composingsynonym names and their family names as shown in theprocedures in (4).
When at least one keyword is de-tected, the ID is accepted.
The key words appear lessthan 50 times (only for words extracted from genenames, in the case of words from family name, this limi-tation is not used) in genes and appear less than a cer-tain frequency in all abstracts and are not common todifferent genes that have synonyms with the same spell-ing.
Even if a key word search is performed, except forfamous names such as p53 and p38, the locus identifica-tion for ?# kDa?, meaning a ?#p?
expression such asp60 and p61, is quite difficult.
In relation to famousname-Ids, such as cAMP(cyclic AMP), CD2(clusterdesignation 2),  the IDs are used to recover a false nega-tive even if the full/longer name is not written in theabstracts and the keywords are not detected.The automatic keyword selection using conventionalmethods such as tf-idf (Salton and Yang, 1973) andSMART (Singhal et al 1996) may be applicable.
How-ever, the number of abstracts per gene is too small inmany cases and the effective keywords selection couldnot be achieved.
Therefore, this approach was not ap-plied, in this study.For S. cerevisiae, C. elegans, and D. melanogaster, inmost cases, the full names of symbols are not written.Only when the symbol name has a symbol (abbrevia-tion)-full name pairs, and the full name is not the corre-sponding gene name or contains a word that is not acomponent of the synonyms, the hit-ID is discarded.Although, as far as possible, we removed what we as-sumed were wrong or inappropriate gene names, somenames either do not seem to be synonyms or are rarelyused ones.
These can cause errors.
For example, LPS isa synonym for ?interferon regulatory factor 6?
(for ex-ample, LocusLink, GenAtlas) and ?lipopolysaccharide?in H. sapiens.
However, our investigations indicate thatLPS is not used to indicate ?interferon regulatory factor6?
in abstracts.6 Experiment and ResultsTo validate the recall and precision of our methodfor gene/protein/family name recognition, we mademanually pre-tagged 100 abstracts (1996 year) on eachof the following organisms: S. cerevisiae, D.melanogaster, and H. sapiens with mesh terms ?sac-charomyces cerevisiae?, ?drosophila melanogaster?,and ?human?, respectively.
Table 1 shows the results.In this evaluation, whether each gene/family ID wascorrectly assigned in the abstract or not was investigated.
(each ID was counted only once per abstract.)
When theprecision and recall of all gene/family name descrip-tions?
recognition were calculated (each ID can becounted more than once per abstract), they did notchange largely and  were within 2-5% error spans ofTable 1.Table 1 The summary of precision and recall ofgene/protein/family name recognitionOrganism* Precision=TP/(TP+FP) :total(gene/family)Recall=TP/(TP+FN):total(gene/family)HS 94.3(95.2/93.2)%88.6(92.0/85.0) %DM 92.1(90.3/94.5)%91.2(91.8/90.4)%SC 95.5(94.6/96.0)%94.6(96.0/93.7)%*HS:H. sapiens, DM:D. melanogaster, SC:S. cerevisiaeThe corpus size and the number of deficient nameentries in GENA and family name dictionary weresummarized in Table 2.Table 2 The corpus size and num.
of deficientgene/family entries.Organism Num ofgene/family in thecorpus:total (gene/family)Num of deficientname entries:total(gene/family)HS 167 (87/80) 10 (1/9)DM 547 (317/230) 31 (16/18)SC 277 (100/177) 14 (2/11)In judging family name recognition, slightly soft cri-teria were used.
If a complete matching entry was notregistered in the family name dictionary, a higher con-cept ID was assigned.
For example, ?lactate dehydro-genase?
was not registered in the family namedictionary, so this name was assigned the ID ?dehydro-genase?.
Even if the other organisms are written in thesame abstracts, their gene names are not extracted inprinciple.
However, human, rat, and mouse are not dis-tinguished in this validation.
The family names in otherorganisms are also extracted in this evaluation.As shown in Table 2, in all organisms, more thanone-third of the gene names were written as familynames.
This indicates the necessity for hierarchical genenames, as in the family dictionary, although conven-tional methods scarcely mentioned.
The recall and pre-cision of these organisms as shown in Table 1 arerelatively high roughly compared to previous reports.
(precision:72-93%, recall:76-94%: The summary is re-viewed by Hirschman 2002).
The details of errors wereas followings.
Only 4 and 1 names, which were regis-tered in GENA and family name dictionary, were rec-ognized as gene/family names at once, but they wereerroneously discarded by the procedures used to con-firm ambiguous names, in H. sapiens.
Many of them arecaused by the key-word search fails.
Especially, in fam-ily names, the key-words seem to be insufficient.Probably, these will be addressed in some extent by useof the key words of the higher/lower concept IDs.
Insome cases, the full-name and abbreviation match failed.For example, in ?urokinase-type plasminogen activatorreceptor (uPAR, CD87)?, the full-name and abbrevia-tion match failed due to the existence of ?two names?
inthe parenthesis.
These errors will be recovered by thekeyword search.
However, in the present program, re-covering step is not used.
The recall of family names inH.
sapiens is slightly low because of varieties of fami-lies as shown in Table 1.
6, 4 names were false positivegene/protein names in S. cerevisiae and H. sapiens, re-spectively.
7, 5 names were false positive family namesin S. cerevisiae and H. sapien, respectively.
Most ofthem were short names and were not removed due totheir in-appropriate keywords.
Some of them arecaused by inappropriate GENA entries.In relation to D. melanogaster, 10 gene/proteinnames that were registered in GENA were not recog-nized as gene/family names.
Many of them were generalnouns/adjective and were not used as the ?gene name +specified words?
phrase in the abstracts.
Rest of themwere gene/protein names removed in trie implementa-tion steps due to their confusing spellings such as ?10-4?.
Also mutant gene name recognition was quite diffi-cult in this method, since the superscript for the muta-tion was converted in the normal characters in NCBI-abstracts and newly developed mutant was expressed bychanging the superscript.
4 family names were recog-nized once and erroneously discarded in the keywordsearch steps.
31 gene/protein names and 12 familynames were false positive.
Most of them in gene/proteinnames were misleading names such as 19A.
These mis-leading names were removed or replaced by the ?genename + specified words?
phrase as far as possible withsome heuristics and term frequencies in abstracts.
How-ever, some remained.
Some false positive were wronglyextracted other organisms?
gene names.In the strict criteria of family name recognition, 10,18, 10 names were recognized as higher concepts in H.sapiens, D. melanogaster, and S.cerevisiae, respectively.The registration of detailed entries for the family namedictionary is required.The heuristics of the name detection seem to be suf-ficient so that no name detections failed due to trivialname variations in H. sapiens and S. cerevisiae, andonly one name in D. melanogaster except mutant varia-tion failed.
There is some room to be improved in ambi-guity resolution steps using sophisticated keywordsearching.In our laboratory, protein interaction information andprotein function were automatically extracted and storedin PRIME (http://prime.ontology.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp) andin the protein kinase database(http://kinasedb.ontology.ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp, Koike et al,2003).
With this procedure, some false positives werenot extracted since the phrase patterns did not match theextracted protein interaction and protein function.
Thatis, some wrongly recognized names were removed as aresult of considering the local context.
In this stage, thewrongly recognized false positive names was 0, 4, and 3for S. cerevisiae, D. melanogaster, and H. sapiens, re-spectively.
Using the family name dictionary greatlyincreased the recognition of ambiguous names.
How-ever, a new difficulty was found in extracting informa-tion.
Many family names are common to functionalnouns.
Therefore, even if a phrase pattern is used, thewrong interaction may be extracted.
For example, fromPUBMED_11279098: ?We also identified key residuepairs in the hydrophobic core of the Cet1 protomer thatsupport the active site tunnel and stabilize the triphos-phatase in vivo.?
It is difficult to automatically judgefrom this sentence whether ?triphosphatase?
means theCet1 function or another protein family name.
All theinteraction information in this abstract indicates that?triphosphatase?
is the activity of Cet1.
Our programwrongly extracted ?Cet1/gene-name?
stabilize ?triphos-phatase/family-name?.
Additional heuristics are re-quired to remove these wrongly extracted data.7 Related WorkVarious protein/gene recognition methods have beenreported and some successes were gained as briefly re-viewed in introduction and well reviewed in the refer-ences (Hirshman et al, 2002).
However, most of themdid not specify the gene locus.
Further, they were de-veloped mainly for H. sapiens.
Since the naming con-vention is different in organisms, their recognitionperformance in other organisms is unknown.Hirshman et al (2002) have reported the dictionary-based name recognition.
This report discussed the diffi-culty of the gene name recognition of D. melanogasterand showed the increase of the precision by removingthe gene names that have meanings as normal Englishwords.
Tuason et al (2004) have investigated that theambiguity within each organism and among organisms(mouse, worm, fly, and yeast) and with general Englishwords.
Tsuruoka and Tsujii (2003) also reported thedictionary-based named recognition and our method issimilar to them.
They resolved the trivial gene variationproblems using dynamic programming and tries, whilein our method, by normalizing dictionary names anddevising the trie structure, the trivial variations wereaddressed without dynamic programming and the re-quired CPU time is expected to be largely reducedwithout decreasing precision and recall.
The proteinname recognition standard is a little different from themand the direct comparison of precision and recall withtheir results seem meaningless.
In their methods, theyfocus on protein names (without gene names) and seemnot to distinguish whether the protein name candidaterepresents the protein itself or not in the context.
(ex.
?IL-1 receptor antagonist?
and ?IL-1 receptor expres-sion?
: only the latter description means the IL-1 recep-tor itself.)
Further, in our method, addressing theambiguity of gene names (common gene names amongmultiple gene names) is tried.
Since long protein namesare usually written with abbreviated names, the namevariations caused of permutation and insertion/deletionof long name words are picked up in the ambiguity reso-lution process.8 Conclusions:We constructed gene name and family name dic-tionaries to link each gene name to a gene locus and torelate ambiguous names to gene families.
Our prelimi-nary investigations showed that more than one-third toone-half of gene/protein names in abstracts are writtenusing ambiguous names such as family/super-familylevel names.
This indicates that dictionary-basedgene/protein/family name recognition requires not onlya gene name dictionary but also a hierarchical familyname dictionary.
Using the gene name dictionaryGENA and the family name dictionary we constructedand our searching method, 95, 91, and 89% of pro-tein/gene/family names in abstracts on S. cerevisiae, D.melanogaster, and H. sapiens were detected with a pre-cision of 96, 92, and 94%, respectively.
The simple heu-ristics we developed seem to be useful for matchinggene/family names in texts with dictionary entry names,although additional trivial changes are required to ad-dress ambiguity of gene names.
These methods are alsouseful for extracting data on protein interaction and pro-tein function.
However, the gene/protein/family namerecognition subject is deep.
For example, ?NFkappaB?represents ?NFKB1?
and ?RELA?
complex in manycontexts and sometimes represents ?NFKB1?.
Unfortu-nately, these complicated recognitions were not re-solved.Although different organisms have different namingconventions, the nomenclature for mammals is similarto that for H. sapiens, and most bacteria and archaeagene/protein/family names are similar to the nomencla-ture for S. cerevisiae.
Problems in gene name recogni-tion for most organisms will be able to be addressedusing our method.
Dictionary-based name recognitioncannot search new gene name/synonym names.
How-ever, the whole human/drosophila/yeast genomes havealready been sequenced and the appearance of newsynonym names can be expected to decrease or be in-ferable from the referenced known name.
In addition,with the introduction of the family name dictionary,parts of new genes can be retrieved using the higherconcept name (family name), even if the new gene nameitself is not registered in GENA.
Accordingly, the dic-tionary-based name recognition will be expected to besufficient for the information extraction in these organ-isms.Protein-interaction and protein-function informationextracted using these procedures for gene/protein/familyname recognition are available fromhttp://prime.ontlogy.ims.u-toky.ac.jp.AcknowledgementsWe wish to acknowledge Yo Shidahara andKouichiro Yamada for reading many abstracts and help-ing us by constructing the family name dictionary.
Wewould like to thank Chiharu Kikuchi in Nittetsu HitachiSystem Engineering for helping us by programmingGENA.This work is supported in part by Grant-in aid forscientific research on priority areas (c) genome informa-tion science from the Ministry of Education, Culture,Sports, Science, and Technology of Japan.ReferencesCollier, N., Nobata, C. and Tsujii, J.
2000.
Proc.
of the18th Int.
Conf.
on Comp.
Ling.
201-207.Enright, AJ, Van Dongen, S, and Ouzounis, CA.
2002.Nucleic Acids Res.
30(7):1575-84.lFukuda, K., Tsunoda, T. Tamura, A. and Takagi, T.1998 Proceedings of the Pacific Symposium on Bio-computing, 705-716.Hatzivassiloglou, V., Duboue, P.A.
and Rzhetsky, A.2001.
Bioinformatics, 17S(1), S97-S106.Hirschman, L., Morgan, A.A., and Yeh, A.S. 2002 J.Biomed.
Inform.
35:247-259.Humphreys, K., Demetriou, G., and Gaizauskas, R.2000 Proc.
of the Pacific Symposium on Biocomput-ing, 5:502-513.Jenssen TK, Laegreid A, Komorowski J, Hovig E. 2001.Nat Genet.
28(1):21-8.Koike, A., Kobayashi, Y., and Takagi, T. 2003.
GenomeResearch, 13:1231-1243.Nobata, C., Collier, N., and Tsujii, J.
1999.
Proc.
of Nat.Lang.
Paci.
Rim Symp.
369-374.Salton, G. and Yang, C.S.
(1973) J.
Document.
29(4),351-372.Schwartz, A.S., Hearst M.A., 2003.
Pacific Symposiumon Biocomputing 8:451-462.Singhal, A. Buckley, C., and Cochrane, P.A.
1996.
Proc.of ACM SIGIR, 26-133.Tanabae, L and Wilbur,WJ.
2002.
Bioinformatics,18(8):1124-1132.Tsuruoka, Y. and Tsujii, J.
2004.
Proc.
of the ACL 2003Workshop on Natural Language Processing in Bio-medicine 41-48.Tuason, O. and Chen, L., Liu, H., Blake, J.A., andFriedman, C. 2004.
Proc.
of Pacific Symposium on Bio-computing, 238-249.
