The Potsdam Commentary CorpusManfred StedeUniversity of PotsdamDept.
of LinguisticsApplied Computational LinguisticsD-14415 PotsdamGermanystede@ling.uni-potsdam.deAbstractA corpus of German newspaper commentarieshas been assembled and annotated with differ-ent information (and currently, to different de-grees): part-of-speech, syntax, rhetorical struc-ture, connectives, co-reference, and informationstructure.
The paper explains the design deci-sions taken in the annotations, and describes anumber of applications using this corpus withits multi-layer annotation.1 IntroductionA corpus of German newspaper commentarieshas been assembled at Potsdam University, andannotated with different linguistic information,to different degrees.
Two aspects of the corpushave been presented in previous papers ((Re-itter, Stede 2003) on underspecified rhetoricalstructure; (Stede 2003) on the perspective ofknowledge-based summarization).
This paper,however, provides a comprehensive overview ofthe data collection effort and its current state.At present, the ?Potsdam Commentary Cor-pus?
(henceforth ?PCC?
for short) consists of170 commentaries from Ma?rkische AllgemeineZeitung, a German regional daily.
The choiceof the genre commentary resulted from the factthat an investigation of rhetorical structure,its interaction with other aspects of discoursestructure, and the prospects for its automaticderivation are the key motivations for buildingup the corpus.
Commentaries argue in favorof a specific point of view toward some polit-ical issue, often dicussing yet dismissing otherpoints of view; therefore, they typically offer amore interesting rhetorical structure than, say,narrative text or other portions of newspapers.The choice of the particular newspaper wasmotivated by the fact that the language used ina regional daily is somewhat simpler than thatof papers read nationwide.
(Again, the goal ofautomatic analysis was responsible for this deci-sion.)
This is manifest in the lexical choices butalso in structural features.
As an indication, inour core corpus, we found an average sentencelength of 15.8 words and 1.8 verbs per sentence,whereas a randomly taken sample of ten com-mentaries from the national papers Su?ddeutscheZeitung and Frankfurter Allgemeine has 19.6words and 2.1 verbs per sentence.
The com-mentaries in PCC are all of roughly the samelength, ranging from 8 to 10 sentences.
For il-lustration, an English translation of one of thecommentaries is given in Figure 1.The paper is organized as follows: Section 2explains the different layers of annotation thathave been produced or are being produced.
Sec-tion 3 discusses the applications that have beencompleted with PCC, or are under way, or areplanned for the future.
Section 4 draws someconclusions from the present state of the effort.2 Layers of AnnotationThe corpus has been annotated with six differ-ent types of information, which are character-ized in the following subsections.
Not all thelayers have been produced for all the texts yet.There is a ?core corpus?
of ten commentaries,for which the range of information (except forsyntax) has been completed; the remaining datahas been annotated to different degrees, as ex-plained below.All annotations are done with specific toolsand in XML; each layer has its own DTD.This offers the well-known advantages for inter-changability, but it raises the question of howto query the corpus across levels of annotation.We will briefly discuss this point in Section 3.1.2.1 Part-of-speech tagsAll commentaries have been tagged withpart-of-speech information using Brants?
TnT1tagger and the Stuttgart/Tu?bingen Tag Set1www.coli.uni-sb.de/?thorsten/tnt/Dagmar Ziegler is up to her neck in debt.
Due to the dramatic fiscal situation in Brandenburgshe now surprisingly withdrew legislation drafted more than a year ago, and suggested to decideon it not before 2003.
Unexpectedly, because the ministries of treasury and education both hadprepared the teacher plan together.
This withdrawal by the treasury secretary is understandable,though.
It is difficult to motivate these days why one ministry should be exempt from cutbacks?
at the expense of the others.
Reiche?s colleagues will make sure that the concept is waterproof.Indeed there are several open issues.
For one thing, it is not clear who is to receive settlements orwhat should happen in case not enough teachers accept the offer of early retirement.
Nonethelessthere is no alternative to Reiche?s plan.
The state in future has not enough work for its manyteachers.
And time is short.
The significant drop in number of pupils will begin in the fall of 2003.The government has to make a decision, and do it quickly.
Either save money at any cost - or givepriority to education.Figure 1: Translation of PCC sample commentary(STTS)2.2.2 Syntactic structureAnnotation of syntactic structure for the corecorpus has just begun.
We follow the guide-lines developed in the TIGER project (Brantset al 2002) for syntactic annotation of Germannewspaper text, using the Annotate3 tool for in-teractive construction of tree structures.2.3 Rhetorical structureAll commentaries have been annotated withrhetorical structure, using RSTTool4 and thedefinitions of discourse relations provided byRhetorical Structure Theory (Mann, Thomp-son 1988).
Two annotators received trainingwith the RST definitions and started the pro-cess with a first set of 10 texts, the results ofwhich were intensively discussed and revised.Then, the remaining texts were annotated andcross-validated, always with discussions amongthe annotators.
Thus we opted not to take thestep of creating more precise written annotationguidelines (as (Carlson, Marcu 2001) did for En-glish), which would then allow for measuringinter-annotator agreement.
The motivation forour more informal approach was the intuitionthat there are so many open problems in rhetor-ical analysis (and more so for German than forEnglish; see below) that the main task is qual-itative investigation, whereas rigorous quanti-tative analyses should be performed at a laterstage.One conclusion drawn from this annotationeffort was that for humans and machines alike,2www.sfs.nphil.uni-tuebingen.de/Elwis/stts/stts.html3www.coli.uni-sb.de/sfb378/negra-corpus/annotate.html4www.wagsoft.com/RSTToolassigning rhetorical relations is a process loadedwith ambiguity and, possibly, subjectivity.
Werespond to this on the one hand with a formatfor its underspecification (see 2.4) and on theother hand with an additional level of annota-tion that attends only to connectives and theirscopes (see 2.5), which is intended as an inter-mediate step on the long road towards a system-atic and objective treatment of rhetorical struc-ture.2.4 Underspecified rhetorical structureWhile RST (Mann, Thompson 1988) proposedthat a single relation hold between adjacenttext segments, SDRT (Asher, Lascarides 2003)maintains that multiple relations may hold si-multaneously.
Within the RST ?user commu-nity?
there has also been discussion whether twolevels of discourse structure should not be sys-tematically distinguished (intentional versus in-formational).Some relations are signalled by subordinat-ing conjunctions, which clearly demarcate therange of the text spans related (matrix clause,embedded clause).
When the signal is a coordi-nating conjunction, the second span is usuallythe clause following the conjunction; the firstspan is often the clause preceding it, but some-times stretches further back.
When the connec-tive is an adverbial, there is much less clarity asto the range of the spans.Assigning rhetorical relations thus posesquestions that can often be answered only sub-jectively.
Our annotators pointed out that veryoften they made almost random decisions as towhat relation to choose, and where to locatethe boundary of a span.
(Carlson, Marcu 2001)responded to this situation with relatively pre-cise (and therefore long!)
annotation guidelinesthat tell annotators what to do in case of doubt.Quite often, though, these directives fulfill thegoal of increasing annotator agreement withoutin fact settling the theoretical question; i.e., thedirectives are clear but not always very well mo-tivated.In (Reitter, Stede 2003) we went a differentway and suggested URML5, an XML format forunderspecifying rhetorical structure: a numberof relations can be assigned instead of a sin-gle one, competing analyses can be representedwith shared forests.
The rhetorical structureannotations of PCC have all been converted toURML.
There are still some open issues to be re-solved with the format, but it represents a firststep.
What ought to be developed now is anannotation tool that can make use of the for-mat, allow for underspecified annotations andvisualize them accordingly.2.5 Connectives with scopesFor the ?core?
portion of PCC, we found that onaverage, 35% of the coherence relations in ourRST annotations are explicitly signalled by alexical connective.6 When adding the fact thatconnectives are often ambiguous, one has toconclude that prospects for an automatic anal-ysis of rhetorical structure using shallow meth-ods (i.e., relying largely on connectives) are notbright ?
but see Sections 3.2 and 3.3 below.Still, for both human and automatic rhetori-cal analysis, connectives are the most importantsource of surface information.
We thus decidedto pay specific attention to them and introducean annotation layer for connectives and theirscopes.
This was also inspired by the work onthe Penn Discourse Tree Bank7, which followssimilar goals for English.For effectively annotating connec-tives/scopes, we found that existing annotationtools were not well-suited, for two reasons:?
Some tools are dedicated to modes of anno-tation (e.g., tiers), which could only quiteun-intuitively be used for connectives andscopes.?
Some tools would allow for the desiredannotation mode, but are so complicated(they can be used for many other purposesas well) that annotators take a long timegetting used to them.5?Underspecified Rhetorical Markup Language?6This confirms the figure given by (Schauer, Hahn2001), who determined that in their corpus of Germancomputer tests, 38% of relations were lexically signalled.7www.cis.upenn.edu/?pdtb/Consequently, we implemented our own anno-tation tool ConAno in Java (Stede, Heintze2004), which provides specifically the function-ality needed for our purpose.
It reads a filewith a list of German connectives, and whena text is opened for annotation, it highlights allthe words that show up in this list; these willbe all the potential connectives.
The annotatorcan then ?click away?
those words that are herenot used as connectives (such as the conjunc-tion und (?and?)
used in lists, or many adverbialsthat are ambiguous between connective and dis-course particle).
Then, moving from connectiveto connective, ConAno sometimes offers sugges-tions for its scope (using heuristics like ?for sub-junctor, mark all words up to the next commaas the first segment?
), which the annotator canaccept with a mouseclick or overwrite, markinginstead the correct scope with the mouse.
Whenfinished, the whole material is written into anXML-structured annotation file.2.6 Co-referenceWe developed a first version of annotationguidelines for co-reference in PCC (Gross 2003),which served as basis for annotating the corecorpus but have not been empirically evaluatedfor inter-annotator agreement yet.
The tool weuse is MMAX8, which has been specifically de-signed for marking co-reference.Upon identifying an anaphoric expression(currently restricted to: pronouns, preposi-tional adverbs, definite noun phrases), the an-notator first marks the antecedent expression(currently restricted to: various kinds of nounphrases, prepositional phrases, verb phrases,sentences) and then establishes the link betweenthe two.
Links can be of two different kinds:anaphoric or bridging (definite noun phrasespicking up an antecedent via world-knowledge).?
Anaphoric links: the annotator is askedto specify whether the anaphor is a repe-tition, partial repetition, pronoun, epithet(e.g., Andy Warhol ?
the PopArt artist), oris-a (e.g., Andy Warhol was often huntedby photographers.
This fact annoyed espe-cially his dog...).?
Bridging links: the annotator is asked tospecify the type as part-whole, cause-effect(e.g., She had an accident.
The woundsare still healing.
), entity-attribute (e.g., She8www.eml-research.de/english/Research/NLP/Downloadshad to buy a new car.
The price shockedher.
), or same-kind (e.g., Her health in-surance paid for the hospital fees, butthe automobile insurance did not cover therepair.
).2.7 Information structureIn a similar effort, (Go?tze 2003) developed aproposal for the theory-neutral annotation ofinformation structure (IS) ?
a notoriously dif-ficult area with plenty of conflicting and over-lapping terminological conceptions.
And in-deed, converging on annotation guidelines iseven more difficult than it is with co-reference.Like in the co-reference annotation, Go?tze?s pro-posal has been applied by two annotators to thecore corpus but it has not been systematicallyevaluated yet.We use MMAX for this annotation as well.Here, annotation proceeds in two phases: first,the domains and the units of IS are marked assuch.
The domains are the linguistic spans thatare to receive an IS-partitioning, and the unitsare the (smaller) spans that can play a role as aconstituent of such a partitioning.
Among theIS-units, the referring expressions are markedas such and will in the second phase receivea label for cognitive status (active, accessible-text, accessible-situation, inferrable, inactive).They are also labelled for their topicality (yes/ no), and this annotation is accompanied bya confidence value assigned by the annotator(since it is a more subjective matter).
Finally,the focus/background partition is annotated,together with the focus question that elicits thecorresponding answer.
Asking the annotator toalso formulate the question is a way of arrivingat more reproducible decisions.For all these annotation taks, Go?tze devel-oped a series of questions (essentially a decisiontree) designed to lead the annotator to the ap-propriate judgement.3 Past, Present, Future ApplicationsHaving explained the various layers of annota-tion in PCC, we now turn to the question whatall this might be good for.
This concerns onthe one hand the basic question of retrieval, i.e.searching for information across the annotationlayers (see 3.1).
On the other hand, we are in-terested in the application of rhetorical analy-sis or ?discourse parsing?
(3.2 and 3.3), in textgeneration (3.4), and in exploiting the corpusfor the development of improved models of dis-course structure (3.5).3.1 RetrievalFor displaying and querying the annoated text,we make use of the Annis Linguistic Databasedeveloped in our group for a large research effort(?Sonderforschungsbereich?)
revolving aroundinformation structure.9 The implementation isbasically complete, yet some improvements andextensions are still under way.
The web-basedAnnis imports data in a variety of XML formatsand tagsets and displays it in a tier-orientedway (optionally, trees can be drawn more ele-gantly in a separate window).
Figure 2 shows ascreenshot (which is of somewhat limited value,though, as color plays a major role in signallingthe different statuses of the information).
In thesmall window on the left, search queries can beentered, here one for an NP that has been anno-tated on the co-reference layer as bridging.
Theportions of information in the large window canbe individually clicked visible or invisible; herewe have chosen to see (from top to bottom)?
the full text,?
the annotation values for the activated an-notation set (co-reference),?
the actual annotation tiers, and?
the portion of text currently ?in focus?
(which also appears underlined in the fulltext).Different annotations of the same text aremapped into the same data structure, so thatsearch queries can be formulated across annota-tion levels.
Thus it is possible, for illustration,to look for a noun phrase (syntax tier) markedas topic (information structure tier) that is ina bridging relation (co-reference tier) to someother noun phrase.3.2 Stochastic rhetorical analysisIn an experiment on automatic rhetorical pars-ing, the RST-annotations and PoS tags wereused by (Reitter 2003) as a training corpusfor statistical classification with Support VectorMachines.
Since 170 annotated texts constitutea fairly small training set, Reitter found thatan overall recognition accuracy of 39% couldbe achieved using his method.
For the En-glish RST-annotated corpus that is made avail-able via LDC, his corresponding result is 62%.Future work along these lines will incorporateother layers of annotation, in particular the syn-tax information.9www.ling.uni-potsdam.de/sfb/Figure 2: Screenshot of Annis Linguistic Database3.3 Symbolic and knowledge-basedrhetorical analysisWe are experimenting with a hybrid statisti-cal and knowledge-based system for discourseparsing and summarization (Stede 2003), (Han-neforth et al 2003), again targeting the genreof commentaries.
The idea is to have a pipelineof shallow-analysis modules (tagging, chunk-ing, discourse parsing based on connectives) andmap the resulting underspecified rhetorical tree(see Section 2.4) into a knowledge base that maycontain domain and world knowledge for enrich-ing the representation, e.g., to resolve referencesthat cannot be handled by shallow methods,or to hypothesize coherence relations.
In therhetorical tree, nuclearity information is thenused to extract a ?kernel tree?
that supposedlyrepresents the key information from which thesummary can be generated (which in turn mayinvolve co-reference information, as we want toavoid dangling pronouns in a summary).
Thuswe are interested not in extraction, but actualgeneration from representations that may be de-veloped to different degrees of granularity.In order to evaluate and advance this ap-proach, it helps to feed into the knowledge basedata that is already enriched with some of thedesired information ?
as in PCC.
That is, wecan use the discourse parser on PCC texts, em-ulating for instance a ?co-reference oracle?
thatadds the information from our co-reference an-notations.
The knowledge base then can betested for its relation-inference capabilities onthe basis of full-blown co-reference information.Conversely, we can use the full rhetorical treefrom the annotations and tune the co-referencemodule.
The general idea for the knowledge-based part is to have the system use as muchinformation as it can find at its disposal to pro-duce a target representation as specific as pos-sible and as underspecified as necessary.
Fordeveloping these mechanisms, the possibility tofeed in hand-annotated information is very use-ful.3.4 Salience-based text generationText generation, or at least the two phasesof text planning and sentence planning, is aprocess driven partly by well-motivated choices(e.g., use this lexeme X rather than that morecolloquial near-synonym Y ) and partly by con-ventionalized patterns (e.g., order of informa-tion in news reports).
And then there are deci-sions that systems typically hard-wire, becausethe linguistic motivation for making them isnot well understood yet.
Preferences for con-stituent order (especially in languages with rel-atively free word order) often belong to thisgroup.
Trying to integrate constituent orderingand choice of referring expressions, (Chiarcos2003) developed a numerical model of saliencepropagation that captures various factors of au-thor?s intentions and of information structurefor ordering sentences as well as smaller con-stituents, and picking appropriate referring ex-pressions.10 Chiarcos used the PCC annota-tions of co-reference and information structureto compute his numerical models for salienceprojection across the generated texts.3.5 Improved models of discoursestructureBesides the applications just sketched, the over-arching goal of developing the PCC is to buildup an empirical basis for investigating phe-nomena of discourse structure.
One key issuehere is to seek a discourse-based model of in-formation structure.
Since Danes??
proposalsof ?thematic development patterns?, a few sug-gestions have been made as to the existenceof a level of discourse structure that wouldpredict the information structure of sentenceswithin texts.
(Hartmann 1984), for example,used the term Reliefgebung to characterize thedistibution of main and minor information intexts (similar to the notion of nuclearity inRST).
(Brandt 1996) extended these ideas to-ward a conception of kommunikative Gewich-tung (?communicative-weight assignment?).
Adifferent notion of information structure, is usedin work such as that of (?
), who tried to char-acterize felicitous constituent ordering (themechoice, in particular) that leads to texts pre-senting information in a natural, ?flowing?
wayrather than with abrupt shifts of attention.
?In order to ground such approaches in linguisticobservation and description, a multi-level anno-10For an exposition of the idea as applied to the taskof text planning, see (Chiarcos, Stede 2004).tation like that of PCC can be exploited to lookfor correlations in particular between syntacticstructure, choice of referring expressions, andsentence-internal information structure.A different but supplementary perspective ondiscourse-based information structure is takenby one of our partner projects11, which is inter-ested in correlations between prosody and dis-course structure.
A number of PCC commen-taries will be read by professional news speak-ers and prosodic features be annotated, so thatthe various annotation layers can be set intocorrespondence with intonation patterns.
In fo-cus is in particular the correlation with rhetor-ical structure, i.e., the question whether spe-cific rhetorical relations ?
or groups of relationsin particular configurations ?
are signalled byspeakers with prosodic means.Besides information structure, the secondmain goal is to enhance current models ofrhetorical structure.
As already pointed out inSection 2.4, current theories diverge not only onthe number and definition of relations but alsoon apects of structure, i.e., whether a tree issufficient as a representational device or gen-eral graphs are required (and if so, whetherany restrictions can be placed on these graph?sstructures ?
cf.
(Webber et al, 2003)).
Again,the idea is that having a picture of syntax,co-reference, and sentence-internal informationstructure at one?s disposal should aid in find-ing models of discourse structure that are moreexplanatory and can be empirically supported.4 ConclusionsThe PCC is not the result of a funded project.Instead, the designs of the various annotationlayers and the actual annotation work are re-sults of a series of diploma theses, of students?work in course projects, and to some extent ofpaid assistentships.
This means that the PCCcannot grow particularly quickly.
After the firststep towards breadth had been taken with thePoS-tagging, RST annotation, and URML con-version of the entire corpus of 170 texts12, em-phasis shifted towards depth.
Hence we decidedto select ten commentaries to form a ?core cor-pus?, for which the entire range of annotationlevels was realized, so that experiments withmulti-level querying could commence.
Cur-11www.ling.uni-potsdam.de/sfb/projekt a3.php12This step was carried out in the course of thediploma thesis work of David Reitter (2003), which de-serves special mention here.rently, some annotations (in particular the con-nectives and scopes) have already moved be-yond the core corpus; the others will grow stepby step.The kind of annotation work presented herewould clearly benefit from the emergence ofstandard formats and tag sets, which could leadto sharable resources of larger size.
Clearly thisposes a number of research challenges, though,such as the applicability of tag sets across dif-ferent languages.
Nonetheless, the prospect of anetwork of annotated discourse resources seemsparticularly promising if not only a single anno-tation layer is used but a whole variety of them,so that a systematic search for correlations be-tween them becomes possible, which in turn canlead to more explanatory models of discoursestructure.ReferencesN.
Asher, A. Lascarides.
2003.
Logics of Con-versation.
Cambridge University Press.M.
Brandt.
1996.
Subordination und Parentheseals Mittel der Informationsstrukturierung inTexten.
In.
W. Motsch (ed.
): Ebenen derTextstruktur.
Tu?bingen: Niemeyer.S.
Brants, S. Dipper, S. Hansen, W. Lezius, G.Smith.
2002.
The TIGER Treebank.
In: Proc.of the Workshop on Treebanks and LinguisticTheories.
Sozopol.L.
Carlson, D. Marcu.
2001.
Discourse TaggingReference Manual.
Ms., Univ.
of SouthernCalifornia / Information Sciences Institute.C.
Chiarcos.
2003.
Eine Satzplanungskompo-nente fu?r die Textgenerierung.
In: UtaSeewald-Heeg (ed.
): Sprachtechnologie fu?r diemultilinguale Kommunikation.
Bonn: gardez.
(Short version of Diploma Thesis, TechnischeUniversita?t Berlin)C. Chiarcos, M. Stede.
2004.
Salience-DrivenText Planning.
To appear in: Proc.
of theThird Int?l Conference on Natural LanguageGeneration (INLG), Careys Manor (UK).P.
Fries.
1981.
On the Status of Theme in En-glish.
Forum Linguisticum 6.1:1-38.M.
Go?tze.
2003.
Zur Annotation von Infor-mationsstruktur.
Diploma thesis, Universita?tPotsdam, Inst.
of Linguistics.J.
Gross.
2003.
Algorithmen zur Behandlungvon Anaphora in Zeitungskommentaren.Diploma thesis, Technische Universita?tBerlin.T.
Hanneforth, S. Heintze, M. Stede.
2003.Rhetorical Parsing with Underspecificationand Forests.
In: Proc.
of the HLT/NAACLConference (Companion Volume), Edmon-ton/AL.D.
Hartmann.
1984.
Reliefgebung: Infor-mationsvordergrund und Informationshinter-grund in Texten als Problem von Textlinguis-tik und Stilistik.
In: Wirkendes Wort 34:305-323.W.
Mann, S. Thompson.
1988.
RhetoricalStructure Theory: A Theory of Text Orga-nization.
TEXT 8(3):243-281.D.
Reitter.
2003.
Simple signals for complexrhetorics: on rhetorical analysis with rich-feature support vector modelds.
In: UtaSeewald-Heeg (ed.
): Sprachtechnologie fu?r diemultilinguale Kommunikation.
Bonn: gardez.
(Short version of Diploma Thesis, Universita?tPotsdam, Inst.
of Linguistics)D. Reitter, M. Stede.
2003.
Step by step: un-derspecified markup in incremental rhetoricalanalysis.
In: Proc.
of the 4th Int?l Workshopon Linguistically Interpreted Corpora (LINC-03), Budapest.H.
Schauer, U. Hahn.
2001.
Anaphoric cuesfor coherence relations.
In: Proc.
of ?RecentAdvances in Natural Language Processing?-RANLP 2001.
Tzigov Chark, Bulgaria.M.
Stede.
2003.
Surfaces and depths in text un-derstanding: the case of newspaper commen-tary.
In: Proc.
of the HLT/NAACL Work-shop on Text Meaning, Edmonton/AL.M.
Stede, S. Heintze.
2004.
Machine-assistedrhetorical structure annotation.
To appear in:Proc.
of the 20th Int?l Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics (COLING), Geneva.B.
Webber, A. Knott, M. Stone, A. Joshi.
2003.Anaphora and Discourse Structure.
Compu-tational Linguistics 29(4):545-588.
