Inflectional Syncretism and CorporaD.Brown, C. Tiberius, G.G.
CorbettSurrey Morphology GroupUniversity of SurreyGuildford, Surrey, UKGU2 7XH{d.brown,c.tiberius,g.corbett}@surrey.ac.ukAbstractThis paper describes a novel undertaking:comparing the relationship betweengrammatical ambiguity (syncretism) in nouns,as represented in a default inheritancehierarchy, with textual frequency distributions.In order to do this we consider a language witha reasonable number of grammaticaldistinctions and where syncretism occurs indifferent morphological classes.
Weinvestigated this relationship for Russiannouns.
Our results suggest that there is anintricate relationship between textualfrequency and inflectional syncretism.1 IntroductionThe treatment of syncretism, where a single formhas more than one function, poses a particularchallenge for theories of morphology.
There aredifferent ways of analyzing syncretism.
One way isunderspecification, where the form in question istreated as not realizing the syncretized functions.Another way is referrals (Zwicky 1985; Stump2001: 212-41), where the form is associated with abasic function, and other cells in the paradigmrefer to the cell with this basic function.
Referralsare therefore asymmetrical in their nature, whereasunderspecification is not.
There is evidence thatboth types of analysis are required (Stump 2001:212-41) and Evans, Brown & Corbett  (2001: 216)argue that a kind of underspecified referral isrequired for analyzing syncretisms in Slovene andDalabon.
Therefore we cannot dispense with one atthe expense of the other.
It is therefore worthwhileexamining whether the theoretical asymmetry ofreferrals can be observed in language use.We consider the relationship between thefrequency distributions of noun syncretism in textsand a formal implemented model of Russianinflection, created for other purposes.
In particularwe determine whether the asymmetry of referralsis reflected in the frequency distributions (i.e.
doesthe referred-to cell in the paradigm typically occurmore frequently than the cell which refers to it).Russian is an ideal candidate for testing thisrelationship, as it is a language with substantialparadigms and extensive syncretism of differenttypes.We used a manually compiled dataset (Corbett,Hippisley, Brown and Marriott 2001) of the mostfrequent nouns derived from the Uppsala corpus(L?nngren 1993; Maier 1994) containing 5440noun lexemes, accounting for 243,000 word formsfrom the entire one million word corpus.
On thebasis of this dataset, we tested a set of hypothesesand established a model describing the relationshipbetween paradigm structure and textual use inRussian nouns.We cross-validate our results by testing themodel on a pilot version of the Russian StandardCorpus (Sharoff 2004) which has been fullylemmatized and tagged.The paper is structured as follows.
Section 2outlines the problem.
We describe what we meanby syncretism and frequency and define a set ofhypotheses.
In Section 3, we test our hypotheses onthe two corpora.
Section 4 concludes the paper.2 Morphological Theory and Frequency2.1 SyncretismGrammatical paradigms define the relationshipbetween functions and forms.
A reasonableassumption would be that functions and formswould match up one-to-one.
Contrary to theseexpectations, however, languages often fail to meetthis apparent ideal of one form for every function.In Russian nouns, for instance, there is a smallernumber of forms.Functions          FormsFigure 1: More functions than formsRussian nouns have two number values (singularand plural) and six cases (nominative, accusative,genitive, dative, instrumental, and locative) whichcan be combined yielding 12 combinations of caseand number.
Despite the 12 combinations of caseand number, a typical noun does not have morethan 10 forms (Figure 1) in Russian1, but the classin question will determine where the distinctionsbetween functions are collapsed.
For example, theform ???????
(komnate) ?room?
is ambiguousbetween dative singular and locative singular, theform ?????
(kosti) ?bone?
is three-way ambiguous;it can function as a dative singular, a locativesingular and a genitive singular.Similarly, in English we expect that a verb willhave forms for the present tense, the past tense andthe passive participle.
Given an ambiguous form,such as hit (as in ?Mary hit the nail with a hammer?as opposed to ?Mary was hit by a meteorite?)
weassume that there are two or more separatefunctions associated with it.
This is because otherverbs have different forms, such as the verb eat (asin ?John often ate chocolate?
as opposed to ?Thechocolate was eaten by John?
).Formally syncretism can be treated asunderspecification, where the multiple functions ofthe form have equal importance, or it can be seenin terms of referral (Zwicky 1985; Stump 2001:212-41), where the form is associated with a basicfunction, and other cells in the paradigm refer tothe cell with this basic function.Underspecification implies equal status for thefunctions in question, whereas the referral-basedapproach attributes greater importance to onefunction.One measure of the relative importance ofgrammatical functions is textual frequency.
Wecan make two different predictions about how theformal distinction between underspecification andreferrals is reflected in textual frequency:Prediction 1) both functions are of equalimportance (underspecification) and therefore thefrequency of use is distributed equally betweenfunctions; or Prediction 2) one function is moreimportant than another (referral) and therefore thefrequency of use is not distributed equally betweenfunctions.In this paper we test these predictions forRussian nouns.
As the basis for our predictions, westart from a formal theoretical model of Russianmorphology developed within the NetworkMorphology framework.1 We exclude from consideration here the question ofthe second locative and the second genitive.2.2 Inheritance HierarchyIn this model four noun classes are distinguishedfor Russian as is shown in Table 1.2I IV II IIISing???o?zavod?factory'????delo'thing'?o?????komnata'room'?????kost?
'bone'Nom ???o?zavod????delo?o?????komnata????
?kost?Acc ???o?zavod????delo?o?????komnatu????
?kost?Gen ???o??zavoda????dela?o?????komnaty?o??
?kostiDat ???o??zavodu????delu?o????ekomnate?o??
?kostiInstr ???o???zavodom?????delom?o??????komnatoj?o???
?kost?juLoc ???o??zavode????dele?o????ekomnate?o??
?kostiPlurNom ???o??zavody????dela?o?????komnaty?o??
?kostiAcc ???o??zavody????dela?o?????komnaty?o??
?kostiGen ???o???zavodov???del?o????komnat?????
?kostejDat ???o???zavodam?????delam?o??????komnatam?????
?kostjamInstr ???o????zavodami??????delami?o???????komnatami??????
?kostjamiLoc ???o???zavodax?????delax?o??????komnatax?????
?kostjaxTable 1: Forms for major noun classes inRussianWe see that Class III nouns such as ?????
'bone'have the highest ambiguity, three forms are usedfor six functions, one for the nominative andaccusative, one for the genitive, the dative and thelocative, and one for the instrumental.
Class IInouns such as ?o?????
have syncretism in thedative and locative singular.
Russian also hassyncretism related to animacy.
In the singular inRussian, masculine animate nouns, which belongto Class I, form their accusative on the basis of thegenitive form.
For classes IV and III, which areassociated with neuter and feminine gendersrespectively, there is always nominative-accusativesyncretism.
Class II, of course, has a separate formfor the accusative.
In the plural, the situation ismore straightforward: any animate noun forms itsaccusative on the basis of the genitive, and anyinanimate noun forms its accusative on the basis ofthe nominative.
In the above table only examplesof inanimate nouns are given.Counts based on both corpora show that, about38%3 of token occurrences in the singular in2 We use the following abbreviations: NOM ?nominative, ACC ?
accusative, GEN ?
genitive, DAT ?dative, INSTR ?
instrumental, LOC ?
locative.
Formsare given in Cyrillic and in transliteration.3 This figure is obtained by summing the counts forRussian are morphologically ambiguous(syncretic).
Hence, in an apparentlymorphologically well-equipped language such asRussian, a great deal still depends on syntacticcontext.Our default inheritance analysis of Russian treatssyncretisms within paradigms as asymmetrical, inthat a particular form is considered to have onefunction as basic.
If this paradigmatic asymmetryis reflected in frequency distributions, thenPrediction 2 would be the correct one.
As thesyncretisms within paradigms differ from class toclass, we also have to take into account thehierarchical structure of morphological classes.Figure 2 represents the hierarchical structure of ourmodel of Russian noun morphology using theNetwork Morphology framework (Corbett andFraser 1993), with example lexemes at the bottomof the hierarchy.Figure 2: Inheritance structure for RussiannounsTwo points should be stressed.
First, theoriginal analysis was carried out with the goal ofcontributing to morphological theory, a goal whichwas achieved (see comments in Stump 2001:275-6).
Second, in order to demonstrate that theanalysis was valid, a substantial fragment ofRussian, sufficient to include all instances ofparadigm cells which share the same form and dividingthis by the overall number of singular tokens.
In otherwords we use the sum of the token occurrences of thefollowing ambiguous forms: i) all dative and locativesingular occurrences of Class II nouns; ii) allnominative and accusative singular occurrences of ClassIV nouns, Class III nouns and Class I nouns which areinanimate; iii) all accusative and genitive singularoccurrences of Class I nouns which are animate; iv) allgenitive, dative and locative singular nouns from ClassIII.
It is likely that one can disambiguate mostmorphological syncretisms in Russian readily from thesyntactic context, but our purpose is to demonstrate howoften a morphologically well endowed language such asRussian still leaves much work to syntax.irregularity was implemented in the lexicalknowledge representation language DATR (Evansand Gazdar 1996) and is available at the DATRarchive from the DATR webpages(http://www.datr.org).
The morphological model isstructured as a hierarchy in which information ispushed as far up the hierarchy as it can gocapturing as many generalisations as possible.Thus at the top of the hierarchy in Figure 2  wefind a information associated with all nouns (suchas the inflections for the dative, instrumental andlocative plural) and that information is propagatedto others by inheritance, and at the bottom we findinformation which is unique to particular instances.Node N_I (representing Class I) and node N_IV(representing Class IV) both inherit from node N_0(representing Class O), sharing the inflections forthe genitive, dative, instrumental and locativesingular.
DATR is a default inheritance formalism,which means that information specified under aparticular class node takes precedence over thatwhat is inherited, overriding the inheritedinformation.
This means that, for example, thevalue for locative singular which is stem+?
in threeof the four inflectional classes can be stated underthe noun node and its value only needs to beoverridden for Class III by stem+i.We will use this model and link frequencyinformation to the different components of thenoun hierarchy, i.e nouns at the top, the differentnoun classes and the lexemes belonging to thesenoun classes at the bottom.2.3 Research QuestionsTo check our predictions, we defined a set ofhypotheses which we tested on two sets of corpusdata.The hierarchical organisation of paradigms.Our inheritance model of Russian morphologyinvolves a hierarchical organisation above the levelof traditional word classes.
A major question iswhether this hierarchical organisation of paradigmsis reflected by differences in frequency of use.Thus we will investigate the frequency of use ofgrammatical functions for each point on thehierarchy in Figure 2, and in particular we shalllook at the frequency of use of those functionswhich are syncretic (grammatically ambiguous) atvarious points on that hierarchy.
This researchquestion will be studied by testing the followingnull hypothesis:H0-1: Nodes at the same point in thehierarchy show no difference in frequencyNOUNN_0 N_II N_IIIN_I N_IV ???????/komnata????
?/zavod ????/delo????
?/kost?distribution for any elements of theirparadigms.However, related research by Corbett et al(2001) who investigate the relationship betweenirregularity types and frequency suggests that wewill find significant differences between nodes inthe hierarchy.
We therefore predict that the nullhypothesis is false.
There should be differences infrequency distributions for paradigms betweennodes at the same point on the hierarchy.
Forexample, for nominals there should be differencesbetween nouns and adjectives.
Within nouns, thereshould be differences between N_O (class N_I andclass N_IV combined), class N_II and class N_III.This leads us on to a more specific hypothesis thatspecifies the nature of these differences.H1-1: If two or more functions f1... fzshare the same form in one class, but not inanother, then the combined relativefrequency of those functions is higher forthe classes where they are differentiated.Syncretism and asymmetry of useDo syncretisms occur where one function ismore important than the other(s), but not whereequal in status (as defined in terms of frequency ofuse)?
Here we formulate the following nullhypothesis:H0-2: Where two or more functionsshare the same form, there is no differencein the relative frequency of thosefunctions.Again, we expect the null hypothesis to be false.The context of syncretismWhich category is the most important factor forsyncretism?
According to Haspelmath (2001: 241)the frequency of a category determines theprevalence of syncretism within that category.Frequent grammatical categories, such as singularnumber, are more differentiated and thus show lesssyncretism than less frequent categories.
Thisresearch question will be tested by the followingnull hypothesis.H0-3: The frequency of a category hasno influence on the prevalence ofsyncretism within that category.Following Haspelmath (2001), we predict thatthe null hypothesis is false.
Based on our findingsin Corbett et al(2001) we would predict thatsyncretism behaves in a similar way to varioustypes of irregularity.
That is, examples ofsyncretisms are found in the singular and plural inRussian, and the most important factor influencingsyncretism will be the relative frequencydistribution of the number subparadigm in whichthe syncretism is found, rather than the relativefrequency distribution of the syncretic cells inquestion.
Note that this hypothesis interacts withhypothesis H1-1.
If there were no evidence for thathypothesis, but there were evidence that H0-3 isfalse, then this would suggest that the numbersubparadigm is the most important factor.3 Corpus Study and ResultsTo test the above hypotheses we looked at twoseparate sets of corpus data so as to cross-validateour results.3.1 Corpus dataThe first dataset consists of nouns from theUppsala corpus.
The Uppsala corpus is a set ofsub-corpora of various genres, containingapproximately one million words (L?nngren 1993,Maier 1994).
The dataset was manuallyconstructed  by Andrew Hippisley4 to investigatethe relationship between number availability andnumber use.
It is in the form of a spreadsheet andcontains frequency information, case and  numberfeatures, as well as semantic information, i.e.animacy category for 5440 lexemes, accounting foraround 243,000 word forms from the entire onemillion word Uppsala corpus.
The lexemesrecorded in the dataset are those represented byword forms occurring in total at least five times.Lexemes occurring less than five times wereexcluded to avoid large standard errors in theestimates which occur when observed numbers ineach category are small (Corbett, Hippisley, Bownand Marriott 2001:208).The lexemes in the original dataset weretransliterated.
We have converted them intoUnicode Cyrillic using the simplest encoding ofunicode in data files, the ?ucs2?
encoding.
Inaddition, we have included class informationaccording to the Network Morphology analysis(Figure 2).The second dataset consists of the nouns of apilot version of the Russian Standard Corpuswhich is fully lemmatized and tagged.
Based onthis information a spreadsheet was created similarto the one we have for the Uppsala corpus.
Forconsistency, we only took those nouns into account4 The dataset is available athttp://www.surrey.ac.uk/LIS/SMG, alongwith a readme file.which occur more than five times.
This results in3350 lexemes, making up 126,598 word forms ofthe 500 000 word corpus.3.2 ResultsWe tested the hypotheses given in Section 2.3.We repeat the hypotheses here with the cross-validated results.Hierarchical organisation of paradigmsH0-1: Nodes at the same point in thehierarchy show no difference in frequencydistribution for any elements of theirparadigms.As expected, hypothesis H0-1is false.
There aredifferences in the frequency distributions, both inrelative and absolute terms, of grammaticalfunctions for classes represented as nodes at thesame point in the hierarchy in Figure 2.
Forinstance, there are differences in frequency of thesingular and plural between noun classes at thesame level in the hierarchy (See Table 2 in theAppendix).
Class III has the lowest number ofplurals in absolute terms (3421 in corpus 1 and 954in corpus 2), and also in relative5 terms (15.6% incorpus 1 and 14.5% in corpus 2).
This contrastswith Class O which has the highest number ofplurals in absolute terms (42677 in corpus 1 and12241 in corpus 2), and also in relative terms(30.3% in corpus 1 and 23.9% in corpus 2).We now turn to the dependent hypothesis H1-1Hierarchical organisation of paradigms(cont.
)H1-1: If two or more functions f1... fzshare the same form in one class, but not inanother, then the combined relativefrequency of those functions is higher forthe classes where they are differentiated.In order to test this, we looked at the frequencydistributions of the genitive singular, dativesingular and locative singular for the differentinflectional classes and calculated the proportion ofthe singular paradigm which they account for (SeeAppendix).
As Class III has syncretism of all threeof these functions, Class II has syncretism of twoof them (dative singular and locative singular), andClass O differentiates all three, if the hypothesiswere correct, then Class O should have the highestcombined relative frequency for these functions,thereby accounting for a greater proportion of itssingular paradigm.
However, there is no evidenceto support hypothesis H1-1, because the combined5 Relative frequency with respect to the class.relative frequency differs for the classes across thetwo corpora.
In corpus 1 Class O shows the highestrelative frequency, Class II the next, and Class IIIthe least high relative frequency (which wouldsupport the hypothesis).
In contrast, in corpus 2Class III shows the highest relative frequency forthe three functions.The next hypothesis concerns the relationshipbetween syncretism and the importance of thefunctions involved.
If the hypothesis is false, thenthis is support for prediction 2 that syncretismsoccur where one function is more frequent thananother.Assymmetry of useH0-2: Where two or more functions share thesame form, there is no difference in the relativefrequency of those functions.Again, we looked at the frequency distributionsof the genitive, dative and locative singular.
InTable 1, we saw that the lexemes belonging toClass N_I and Class N_IV (which are groupedtogether under a Class N_O in Figure 2) have thesame forms, but they unambiguously distinguishall three cases.
Class N_II has ambiguity betweendative singular and locative singular, and ClassN_III completely fails to differentiate the threecombinations.
In the default inheritancerepresentation of Russian nominal morphology, thedefault specification of locative singular at NOUNis stem + e, as this is used across three inflectionalclasses.
In classes II and III, where the dativesingular has the same ending as the locativesingular, the dative singular will take over itsending from the locative singular, and in Class IIIwhere the locative singular has the same ending asthe genitive singular, the locative singular will takeover its ending from the genitive singular.Hence, where there is syncretism, we can claimthat a form is primarily associated with a particularfunction, but may be used by another function.
Inthe case of Class III, composition of the referralsmeans that the dative singular takes over thelocative singular, and this in turn takes over thegenitive singular, giving the form stem + i for allthree functions.
According to prediction 2, weexpect that this asymmetry, where one cell refersto another for its form, is reflected in the frequencyof use of the particular functions in question.
Thisis true for Class III, which has all three functionssyncretic.
But it is also true for nouns as a whole,including the Class O which has different forms foreach function.
In Figure 3 we see a decrease infrequency of use from genitive singular, throughlocative singular to dative singular.05000100001500020000250003000035000400004500050000GenSg LocSg DatSgFigure 3: Frequency related to the NOUN nodeHence, if there is a relationship betweensyncretism and frequency, this asymmetry may bea necessary, but not a sufficient, condition.The final hypothesis we tested concerned thefrequency of the category which provides a contextfor syncretism.H0-3: The frequency of a category hasno influence on the prevalence ofsyncretism within that category.Class III which has the greatest amount ofambiguity in the singular has the lowest absolutefrequency of singulars.
This means that thehypothesis H0-3 is false.A note on animacyAnimacy is a distinction which is orthogonal to theindividual morphological classes in Figure 2.
Wewere not in a position to cross-validate the resultsfor nominative-accusative syncretism in inanimatenouns, as only corpus 2 has disambiguated thenominative and accusative for inanimates.
Theresults for corpus 2 suggest (Table 4), however,that there is no directional effect for inanimates.We were in a position to check the animates, forwhich the genitive-accusative syncretism had beendisambiguated in both corpora.In the DATR representation there is areferral of the accusative singular for masculines ofClass I to the genitive singular, and there is areferral of the accusative plural to the genitiveplural for all animate nouns.
Our corpus studyshowed that the null hypothesis H0-2 is also falsewhen we look at animates in the plural: foranimates the accusative plural is less frequent thanthe genitive plural in both corpora (Table 5),which, given the referral of the accusative plural togenitive plural, is the same effect we have seen forgenitive singular, locative singular and dativesingular in Figure 3 (the referred-to element of theparadigm is more frequent).
Recall that, in thesingular, only masculine nouns have genitive-accusative syncretism for animates.
Our resultsproved to be very interesting for the singular.
Foranimate nouns as a whole (i.e.
across all themorphological classes), the two corpora did notmatch: while genitive singular was more frequentin corpus 1, there was little difference betweengenitive singular and accusative singular for allanimates in corpus 2 (Table 5).
However, if thecomparison is restricted to precisely the classwhich may have the genitive-accusativesyncretism, namely Class I, the two corpora matchin that they both show genitive singular as morefrequent (Table 6).4 ConclusionWe wished to see whether there is a relationshipbetween syncretism and its representation in amodel based on a default inheritance hierarchy.We investigated this relationship for Russiannouns.
Our results showed that there is a differencein the frequency distributions for particularfunctions at the different nodes in the hierarchy.
Itis also true that there is a relationship withsyncretism when one compares classes at the samepoint in the hierarchy.
Class III compared withclasses II and O had the lowest absolute frequencyfor both singulars and plurals, and the mostsyncretism in the singular.
This could suggest thatlow absolute frequency is a necessary condition forsyncretism.We have also found evidence that the frequencyof use of a particular function reflectsdirectionality in the formal model, in that thefunction which is referred to for its form (thefunction with which a form is pimarily associated)has higher textual frequency.
This may be anecessary condition, but it is not a sufficient one.Our results show that there is an intricaterelationship between syncretism and frequency,one which should be investigated further.5 AcknowledgementsThe research reported here is supported by theEconomic and Social Research Council (UK)under grant RES-000-23-0082 ?Paradigms in Use?.Their support is gratefully acknowledged.
Wewould like to thank Anja Belz, Kees van Deemter,Roger Evans, Gerald Gazdar and Adam Kilgarrifffor useful discussion on aspects of this paper, andthe anonymous referees for helpful suggestions forits improvement.
All errors are, of course, ourresponsibility.ReferencesGreville G. Corbett and Norman M. Fraser.
1993.Network morphology: A DATR account ofRussian nominal inflection.
Journal ofLinguistics 29: 113-42.Greville G. Corbett, Andrew Hippisley, DunstanBrown and Paul Marriott.
2001.
Frequency,regularity and the paradigm: a perspective fromRussian on a complex relation.
In J. Bybee andP.
Hopper, editors, Frequency and theEmergence of Linguistic Structure, pages 201-226.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Nicholas Evans, Dunstan Brown and Greville G.Corbett.
2001.
Dalabon pronominal prefixes andthe typology of syncretism: a NetworkMorphology analysis.
In G. Booij and J. vanMarle, editors, Yearbook of Morphology 2000,pages 187-231.
Dordrecht: Kluwer.Roger Evans and Gerald Gazdar.
1996.
DATR: ALanguage for Lexical KnowledgeRepresentation.
Computational Linguistics 22:167-216.Norman M. Fraser and Greville G. Corbett.
1995.Gender, animacy and declensional classassignment: a unified account for Russian.
In G.Booij and J. van Marle, editors, Yearbook ofMorphology 1994, pages 123-150.
Kluwer,Dordrecht.Martin Haspelmath.
2001.
UnderstandingMorphology.
Edward Arnold, London.Lennart L?nngren.
1993.
?astotnyj slovar?sovremennogo russkogo jazyka.
UppsalaUniversity, Uppsala.Ingrid Maier.
1994. Review of L?nngren?astotnyj slovar?
sovremennogo russkogojazyka.
Rusistika Segodnja 1: 130-136.Serge Sharoff.
2004.
Methods and tools fordevelopment of the Russian Reference Corpus.In D. Archer, A. Wilson, P. Rayson, editors,Corpus Linguistics Around the World.Amsterdam: Rodopi.Gregory T. Stump.
2001.
Inflectional Morphology.Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Arnold Zwicky.
1985.
How to describe inflection.In M. Niepokuj, M. Van Clay, V. Nikiforidouand D. Feder, editors, Proceedings of theeleventh annual meeting of the BerkeleyLinguistics Society, pages 372-386.
BerkeleyLinguistics Society, Berkeley.AppendixNumber of Tokens inCorpus 1 Corpus 2SG PL SG PLClass O 98173 42677 38877 12241Class II 48843 17688 21047 5700Class III 18522 3421 5619 954Table 2: Absolute and Relative FrequencyCorpus 1 Corpus 2Class O 48.1% 34.7%Class II 46.4% 32.9%Class III 42.0% 36.1%Table 3: Combined Relative Frequency for Gen-Dat-Loc Animate/Inanimate SingularNumber of Tokens in Corpus 2NomSg AccSg NomPl AccPlClass O 6873 7804 2050 1987Class II 3695 5223 1006 1174ClassIII 1231 1105 202 230Table 4: Frequency distributions for InanimateNouns in Corpus 2Number of Tokens inCorpus 1 Corpus 2GenSg 2966 1569AccSg 1595 1606GenPl 3484 1131AccPl 1003 536Table 5: Frequency distribtions for AnimateNounsNumber of Tokens inCorpus 1 Corpus 2GenSg 2260 1033AccSg 1107 981Table 6: Frequency distributions for Class IAnimate Nouns
