Non-Classical Lexical Semantic RelationsJane MorrisFaculty of Information StudiesUniversity of TorontoToronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 3G6morris@fis.utoronto.caGraeme HirstDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of TorontoToronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 3G4gh@cs.toronto.eduAbstractNLP methods and applications need to takeaccount not only of ?classical?
lexical rela-tions, as found in WordNet, but the less-structural, more context-dependent ?non-classical?
relations that readers intuit in text.In a reader-based study of lexical relations intext, most were found to be of the latter type.The relationships themselves are analyzed,and consequences for NLP are discussed.1 IntroductionMany NLP applications, such as text summarization anddiscourse segmentation, require, or can be helped by,the identification of lexical semantic relations in text.However, the resources that are presently available,such as WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) provide only ?clas-sical?
relations: taxonomy or hyponymy (robin / bird),hypernymy (tool / hammer), troponymy (drink / guzzle),meronymy (hand / finger), antonymy (go / come), andsynonymy (car / automobile).
These relations, whichhave been widely studied and applied, are characterizedby a sharing of the same individual defining propertiesbetween the words and a requirement that the words beof the same syntactic class.1Intuitively, however, we see many other kinds oflexical relations in text.
As an example, consider thefollowing two sentences taken from a Reader?s Digestarticle:I attended a funeral service recently.
Kind words,Communion, chapel overflowing, speeches by law-1 Causality as a lexical relation (teach / learn), of which thereare just a few examples in WordNet, falls in a grey area here.yers, government workers, friends, all speaking ofthe deceased?s kindness, his brilliance in mathe-matics, his love of SCRABBLE and CHESS, hisgreat humility and compassion, his sense of humor.There are four groups of related words in this text:  theitalicized group is about funerals, the bolded group ispositive human characteristics, the underlined group isjob types, and the capitalized group is games.
Some ofthe lexical relations here are of the classical kind that wementioned earlier (e.g., chess and  Scrabble have acommon subsumer); but others are examples of rela-tions that we will refer to as ?non-classical?, such asfuneral / chapel and humility / kindness.
The goal ofthis research is to investigate these non-classical rela-tions, and to determine what the different types are andhow they are used, with a view to eventual automaticdetection of the relationships in text.Most prior research on types of lexical semantic re-lations has been context-free: the relations are consid-ered out of any textual context and are then assumed tobe relevant within textual contexts.
And in lexical co-hesion research, the analysis of lexical relations hasbeen done by professional linguists with particularpoints of view (Hasan, 1984; Martin, 1992).
A betterunderstanding of the types of lexical semantic relationsthat are actually identified in context by readers of textwill potentially lead to improvements in the types ofrelations used in NLP applications.2 Theoretical Background2.1 The lexical semantic relations used in lexicalcohesionWhen people read a text, the relations between thewords contribute to their understanding of it.
Relatedword pairs may join together to form larger groups ofrelated words that can extend freely over sentenceboundaries.
These larger word groups contribute to themeaning of text through ?the cohesive effect achievedby the continuity of lexical meaning?
(Halliday andHasan, 1976, p. 320, emphasis added).
Lexical seman-tic relations are the building blocks of lexical cohesion ,and so a clear understanding of their nature and behav-ior is crucial.
Lexical cohesion analysis has been usedin such NLP applications as determining the structure oftext (Morris and Hirst, 1991) and automatic text sum-marization (Barzilay and Elhadad, 1999).In recent lexical cohesion research in linguistics(Hasan, 1984; Halliday and Hasan, 1989; Martin, 1992)non-classical relations are largely ignored, and the sameis true in implementations of lexical cohesion in com-putational linguistics (Barzilay and Elhadad, 1999; Sil-ber and McCoy, 2002), as the lexical resource used isWordNet.
It is notable, however, that the original viewof lexical semantic relations in the lexical cohesionwork of Halliday and Hasan (1976) was very broad andgeneral; the only criterion was that there had to be arecognizable relation between two words.
Most re-search on lexical semantic relations in linguistics(Cruse, 1986) and psychology has also ignored non-classical relations (with the exception of Chaffin andHerrmann, 1984); however there have been recent callsto broaden the focus and include non-classical relationsas well (McRae and Boisvert, 1998; Hodgson, 1991).A notable exception to this trend is in library and in-formation science (LIS), and is likely a pragmatic re-flection of the fact that it is a field with a large user basethat demanded this type of access to reference materials.In LIS thesauri, most of the word pairs that are classedas Related Terms (RTs) are related non-classically, butunfortunately are listed as an undifferentiated group.Standards for their use have been developed (ISO,1986); but since 1985, the Library of Congress has beenencouraging a minimization of their use (El-Hoshy,2001).
Since RTs are all grouped together in an unclas-sified manner, the result has been inconsistencies andsubjective judgments about what word pairs are in-cluded; but this is an issue of implementation ratherthan whether RTs can, in principle, be useful.Roget?s Thesaurus, which was used to form the lexi-cal chains in Morris and Hirst (1991), also gives non-classically related word groups.
Although this thesaurusis hierarchically classified, it makes frequent use withinits basic categories of unclassified pointers to otherwidely dispersed basic categories.
In this respect thestructure of LIS thesauri and Roget?s Thesaurus aresimilar.
They are both hierarchically organized ?
Ro-get?s by Roget?s own principles of domain and topicdivision and LIS thesauri by a broad-term / narrow-termstructure ?
but they also both have a non-hierarchical,non-classified ?structure?
(or at least mechanism) forrepresenting non-classical relations.
But while both,unlike WordNet, give access to non-classically relatedword pairs, they don?t give any indication of what theactual relation between the words is.
Other recent com-putational work such as that of Ji, Ploux, and Wehrli(2003) suffers from the same problem, in that groups ofrelated words are created (in this case through automaticprocessing of text corpora), but the actual relations thathold between the members of the groups are not deter-mined.2.2 Non-classical lexical semantic relationsLakoff (1987) gives the name ?classical?
to categorieswhose members are related by shared properties.
Wewill extend Lakoff?s terminology and refer to relationsthat depend on the sharing of properties of classicalcategories as classical relations.
Hence we will use theterm non-classical  for relations that do not depend onthe shared properties required of classical relations.Lakoff emphasizes the importance of non-classicalcategories, providing support for the importance of non-classical relations.
The classical category structure hasbeen a limiting factor in the study of lexical relations:since relations create categories (and vice versa), if thecategories that are considered are severely restricted innature, so too will be the relations; and, as mentioned,related words must be of the same part of speech.
Thisis thus a restriction found in both Hasan?s (1984) rela-tions in lexical cohesion work and Cruse?s (1986, p. 16)concept of patterns of lexical affinity, where a mecha-nism is given for relating inter-sentence and, in fact,inter-text words that are both in the same grammaticalclass.
The lexical chains of Morris and Hirst (1991) hadno such restriction, and frequently nouns, verbs, adjec-tives, adverbs, and verbs were joined together in onechain.Lakoff (1987) mentions Barsalou?s (1989) conceptof creating ad hoc categories, his term for categoriesthat are ?made up on the fly for some immediate pur-pose?, which would presumably require some type ofprocessing interaction with a specific text instead of theassumption that all categories pre-exist (Lakoff, 1987, p.45).
Two examples of these categories are ?things totake on a camping trip?
and ?what to do for entertain-ment on a weekend?
(ibid, p. 45).
Barsalou?s ad hoccategories seem to be of (at least) two types:  (1) differ-ent activities or actions pertaining to the same or similarobjects; (2) different objects pertaining to the same orsimilar activities or actions.
This process has similari-ties to the mechanisms of Hasan (1984), Martin (1992),and Cruse (1986) that use both intra-sentence case-likerelations and inter-sentence classical relations.
Catego-ries created this way are not classical, as they seem to beways of joining ?different?
objects, actions, or activities,and so the relations between their members are not clas-sical either.
The mix of classical categories and rela-tions with non-classical categories and relations appearsto be a rich source of lexico-grammatical cohesion.The following are the major (not necessarily mutu-ally exclusive) types of non-classical relations found inthe literature:?
Relations between members of Lakoff?s non-classical categories:  ball, field and umpire, thatare part of the structured activity of cricket (orbaseball).?
Case relations:o General:  d o g  / b a r k  (Chaffin andHerrmann, 1984).o Sentence-specific (Fillmore, 1968):  stroke/ it in the sentence: They stroked it.?
LIS RTs (Milstead, 2001).The relations between members of non-classicalcategories are unnamable except with reference to thecategory name (one can?t describe the relations betweenball / field or bal l / umpire without using the wordcricket).
For word pairs consisting of a member and thecategory name, the relation has often been covered, ei-ther as a general case relation (ball / cricket as instru-ment / activity) or as an RT (field / cricket as the activity/ location relation of Neelameghan (2001), or the loca-tive general case relation).Case relations come in two varieties:  general andspecific (to a sentence).
The general inter-sentence andinter-text case relations (Chaffin and Herrmann, 1984)are given also by several of the LIS researchers whohave provided lists of RT types (Neelameghan, 2001;Milstead, 2001).
Cruse deals almost exclusively withclassical relations, but does mention two general case-like relations that he calls ?zero-derived paronymy?
(1986, p. 132).
The instrumental case (dig / spade orsweep  / broom) and the objective case (drive / vehicle orride / bicycle) are given as examples.
He observes thatin the instrumental case, the definition of the noun willmost likely contain the verb, and in the objective case,the definition of the verb will most likely contain thenoun.
To Cruse, these are not ?real?
relations butmerely ?quasi?
relations, as the word classes involveddiffer.The case relations as defined by Fillmore (1968) areintra-sentence grammatical relations that always applyto the specific text and sentence they are situated in.Sometimes these relations can be both text-specific andgeneral at the same time (d o g  / barked in The  dogbarked).
Hasan (1984) and Martin (1992) also use theseintra-sentence case relations to further link togetherword groups that have been created through classicalrelations, as does Cruse (1986) with his concept of pat-terns of lexical affinity mentioned above.LIS can lay claim to the most extensive amount ofresearch on non-classical relations.
It is interesting tonote that during the development of the Art and Archi-tecture Thesaurus (AAT), RTs were not included in theinitial design, but rather added in afterwards due to userdemand (Moholt, 1996).
Of the LIS researchers, Nee-lameghan (2001) has produced the most extensive list ofnon-classical relations, which has changed little sinceNeelameghan and Ravichandra (1976).
Apart fromrelations between members of non-classical categories(see above), his list includes most of the text-generalrelations (recognizable out of the context of a text)mentioned by other researchers.
Obviously any text-specific relations such as sentence-specific case cannotbe included, since word pairs are considered out of text.Note again, however, that both Hasan (1984) and Martin(1992) use relations similar to text-specific case rela-tions to strengthen cohesive ties created by the classicalrelations.
This combination of text-specific and text-general relations could prove to be useful computation-ally.
A couple of exceptions to the above mentionedrelation types have been noted.
Evens et al (1983) havea provenience relation ( water  / well ), and Cruse (1986)has a proportional series relation made up of what hecalls recurring endonymy  (university / lecturer / stu-dent, prison / warden  / convict, hospital / doctor / pa-tient), that is a relation that ?involves the incorporationof the meaning of one lexical item in the meaning ofanother?, such as education in university / lecturer /student (1986, p. 123?125).In the research on domain-neutral lexical semanticrelations, hundreds (Cassidy, 2000) or thousands (Lenat,1995) of relations are defined, or perhaps even more inthe case of Barri?re and Popowich (2000).
The questionof whether there is a smallish set of field- (domain-)neutral non-classical relations that will provide (good)coverage for all (or most) fields is one of the questionswe are investigating.
Encouragingly, LIS has tackled anextensive number of specific domains with just such asmallish set of field-neutral non-classical relations.However, due to the reportedly subjective implementa-tion of these relations, this may not in fact be true inpractice.
WordNet?s approach uses domain-neutral re-lations for a general domain, but mostly for classicalrelations.
Databases use domain-specific relations forspecific domains.3  Experiment3.1  IntroductionWe are interested in determining and analyzing thetypes of lexical semantic relations that can be identifiedin text.
To this end, a study was conducted with nineparticipants who read the first 1.5 pages of a general-interest article from the Reader?s Digest on the topic ofthe funeral of a homeless alcoholic who had nonethelessachieved many positive aspects and qualities in his life.The study reported here is part of a larger study of threetexts from the Reader?s Digest that investigates not onlythe relation types used but also the nature of the largerword groups, the interactions among the word groups,how much of and what type of text meaning this infor-mation represents, and the degree of subjectivity in thereaders?
perceptions of both the relation types and wordgroups as measured by individual differences (see Mor-ris and Hirst, 2004).3.2  MethodSubjects were given a large set of colored pencils and asupply of data sheets for recording their observations.They were instructed to first read the article and markthe words that they perceived to be related, using a dif-ferent color of pencil to underline the words of eachdifferent group of related words.
(In effect, they builtlexical chains; two words could be in the same groupeven if not directly related to one another if both wererelated to another word in the group.)
They were toldthat they could re-read the text and add new underliningat any time during this part of the study.
Once this taskwas completed, the subjects were instructed to transfereach separate word group to a new data sheet, and foreach group to indicate which pairs of words within thegroup they perceived to be related,and what the relationwas.
Finally, they were asked to describe what eachword group was ?about?, and to indicate whether andhow any of the word groups themselves were related toanother.3.3  ResultsWe will briefly present some statistics that summarizethe degree of agreement between the subjects, and thenturn to a qualitative analysis.In general, the subjects were in broad agreementabout many of the groups of related words ?
for exam-ple, that there was a ?funerals?
group and a ?positivehuman qualities?
group ?
but, as one would expect,they differed on the exact membership of the groups.Eleven groups were identified by at least four of thenine subjects.
For each of these groups, we computedthe subjects?
agreement on membership of the group infollowing manner:  We took all possible pairs of sub-jects, and for each pair computed the number of wordson which they agreed as a percentage of the total num-ber of words they used.
Averaged over all possiblepairs of subjects, the agreement was 63%.Next, we looked at agreement on the word pairs thatwere identified as directly related (within the groupsthat were identified by at least four subjects).
We re-stricted this analysis to core words, which we defined tobe those marked by a majority of subjects.
We countedall distinct instances of word pairs that were marked byat least 50% of the subjects, and divided this by the totalnumber of distinct word pairs marked.
We found that25% of the word pairs were marked by at least 50% ofthe subjects.For this set of word pairs that were identified bymore than one subject, we then computed agreement onwhat the relationship between the pair was deemed tobe.
We found that the subjects agreed in 86% of thecases.We now turn to the nature of lexical relations thatthe subjects reported perceiving in the text in each of theeleven word groups that were used by at least four ofthe readers.
As we would expect, the individual word-ing of the descriptions of relation types varied greatlyby reader: the subjects often used different ways to de-scribe what were clearly intended to the same relations.Thus, we had to analyze and interpret their descriptions.We were careful in this analysis to try to determine thesubjects?
intent and generalize the conceptual meaningof the individual wordings that were given, but not im-pose any view of what the relations ?should be?.We found that for this one text, there seems to be anemerging ?smallish?
set of 13 commonly used relations,listed below.
Not included in the list are the outlier re-lations ?
the relation types used only by one reader.1.
Positive qualities (brilliant / kind).2.
Negative qualities (homeless / alcoholic).3.
Qualities in opposition ( drunk / drying out).4.
Large categories such as positive human char-acteristics (humility / humour), typical majorlife events (funeral / born / married), and jobs /types of people (lawyer  / volunteer).5.
Words that are each related to a third concept;for example caring (kind / gentlemanly), re-member (speeches /   deceased), and education(people /   professors).6.
Descriptive noun / adjective pairs (born  /young, professors / brilliant).7.
Commonly co-occurring words often describedas words that are associated, or related:  (alco-holic / beer).
In many cases the readers usedsubgroups of this category:a .
Location (homeless / shelter, funeral /chapel, kitchen / home)b.
Problem / solution / cause / one word leadsto the other  (homeless / drunk, date / love,date / relationship, alcoholic / rehab pro-gram).c.
Case relations  (volunteer / service, people /living, speeches / friends).d.
Aspects of an institution: married (son /married), funeral (speeches / communion),and education (college / jobs ).8.
Stereotypical relations (homeless / drunk,  peo-ple / home).9.
One word related to a large group of words,seemingly with a lot of import:  (homeless /the group of positive human characteristicssuch as brilliant / kind / humility).10.
Definitional:  (alcoholic / drunk ) .11.
Quasi-hyponymy relations  ( friend / relation-ship).12.
Synonymy (relaxed  / at ease).13.
Antonymy (died / born).The data show that while individual differences occur(Morris and Hirst, 2004), the readers in the study identi-fied a common core of groups of related words in thetext.
Agreement on which exact word pairs within agroup are related is much lower at 25%, and possiblereasons for this are, briefly, that this is a much moreindirect task for the readers than initially identifyingword groups and that the word groups might be com-prehended more as gestalts or wholes.
In cases wheresubjects identified word pairs as related, they alsoshowed a marked tendency, at an average of 86%, toagree on what the relation was.
This high level ofreader agreement on what the relations were is a reflec-tion of the importance of considering lexical semanticrelations as being situated in their surrounding context.In other words, while explaining or perceiving linguisticmeaning out of context is hard, as noted by Cruse(1986), doing so within text seems here not to be, and istherefore likely a meaningful area for further study.One clear pattern was evident in the analysis:  theoverwhelming use of non-classical relations.
Therewere a few uses of hyponymy, synonymy, and an-tonymy (relations 11, 12, and 13 above), but these clas-sical relations were used only for a minority of the wordpairs identified by the readers from within the wordgroups in the text.4  DiscussionThe subjects in this study identified a common ?core?
ofgroups of related words in the text, as well as exhibitingsubjectivity or individual differences.
Within theseword groups, the subjects identified a ?smallish?
groupof common relation types.
Most of these relation typesare non-classical.
This result supports the integration ofthese relations into lexical resources or methods used byNLP applications that need to identify and use lexicalsemantic relations and lexical cohesion in text.
Thereare two related computational issues.
The easier one isto be able to automatically identify words in a text thatare related.
Much harder is to be able to provide thesemantically rich information on what the relation actu-ally is.Clearly this work is preliminary in the sense that, todate, one text has been analyzed.
Our next step is tocomplete the analysis of the data from the other twotexts in this study, which has been collected but not yetanalyzed.
An obvious area for future research is theeffect of different types of both texts and readers.
Ourreaders were all masters-level students from the Facultyof Information Studies, and the three texts are all gen-eral-interest articles from Reader?s Digest.It would be very useful to do a thorough analysis ofthe correspondence between the readers?
relation typesreported above, and the relation types discussed earlierfrom the literature.
A preliminary look indicates over-lap, for example of inter-sentence case relations, ad hocnon-classical categories, and words related through athird concept.
We would like to investigate the poten-tial of using both classical and non-classical relationtypes along with the intra-sentence case relations for theautomatic generation of relations and relation learning.This work would incorporate and build on the relatedideas discussed above of Cruse (1986), Hasan (1984),and Barsalou (1989), along with the actual relationtypes and word group interactions found by readers.We are also interested in how text-specific the wordgroups and relations are, since non?text-specific infor-mation can be added to existing resources, but text-specific knowledge will require further complex inter-action with the rest of the text.
We intend to investigateany potential linkages between the word groups in thetexts and other theories that provide pre-determinedstructures of text, such as Rhetorical Structure Theory(Marcu, 1997).
It will also be useful for computationalpurposes to have a clearer understanding of what as-pects of text understanding exist ?in it?
and what can beexpected to contribute to subjectivity of interpretation orindividual differences in comprehension.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported by a grant and scholarshipfrom the Natural Sciences and Engineering ResearchCouncil of Canada.
We are grateful to Clare Beghtolfor ongoing comments.ReferencesBarri?re, Caroline and Popowich, Fred (200 0).
Ex-panding the type hierarchy with nonlexical con-cepts.
In Howard Hamilton (Ed.
), Canadian AI2000 (pp.
53?68) .
Berlin: Springer-Verlag.Barsalou, L.  (1989).
Intra-concept similarity and itsimplications for inter-concept similarity.
In S.Vosniadou and A. Ortony (Eds.
),  Similarity andanalogical reasoning (pp.
76?121).
Cambridge,England:  Cambridge University Press.Barzilay, Regina and Elhadad, Michael (1999).
Usinglexical chains for text summarization.
In InderjeetMani and  Mark Maybury (Eds.
), Advances in textsummarization (pp.
111?121).
Cambridge, Mass.
:The MIT Press.Cassidy, P.  (2000).
An investigation of the semanticrelations in the Roget?s Thesaurus:  Preliminary re-sults.
In A. Gelbukh (Ed.).
CICLing-2000 : Confer-ence on Intelligent Te xt Processing andComputational Linguistics, February 13?
1 9 , Mex-ico City, Mexico ,  181?204.Chaffin, R., and Herrmann, D.  (1984).
The similarityand diversity of semantic relations.
Memory andCognition, 12(2),  134?141.Cruse, D.  (1986).
Lexical semantic relations.
Cam-bridge, England:  Cambridge University Press.El-Hoshy, S.  (2001).
Relationships in Library of Con-gress Subject Headings.
In C. Bean, and R.
Green(Eds.
),  Relationships in the organization of knowl-edge (pp.
135?152).
Norwell, Mass:  Kluwer Aca-demic Publishers.Evens, M., Markowitz, J., Smith, R., and Werner, O.(Eds.).
(1983).
Lexical semantic relations:  A com-parative survey.
Edmonton, Alberta:  LinguisticResearch Inc.Fellbaum, Christiane (1998).
WordNet: An electroniclexical database.
Cambridge, Mass.
: The MITPress.Fillmore, Charles  (1968).
The Case for Case.
In E.Bach and R. Harms (Eds.
),  Universals in linguistictheory (pp.
1?88).
New York: Holt, Rinehart andWinston.Halliday, M.A.K., and Hasan, Ruqaiya (1976).
Cohe-sion in English.
London:  Longman.Halliday, M.A.K., and Hasan, Ruqaiya (1989).
L an-guage, Context and Text: Aspects of language in asocial-semiotic perspective .
Geelong, Victoria:Deakin University Press.
(republished by OxfordUniversity Press, 1989).Hasan, Ruqaiya (1984).
Coherence and Cohesive Har-mony.
In J.
Flood (Ed.
),  Understanding readingcomprehension: Cognition, language and thestructure of prose (pp.
181?219) .
Newark, Dela-ware: International Reading Association.Hodgson, J.
(1991).
Informational constraints on pre-lexical priming.
Language and Cognitive Proc-esses,  6(3),  169?205.ISO.
(1986).
Guidelines for the establishment and de-velopment of monolingual thesauri.
[Geneva:].ISO.
(ISO2788-1986(E)).Ji, Hyungsuk, Ploux, Sabine, and Wehrli, Eric (2003).Lexical knowledge representation with contex-onyms.
Proceedings, Machine Translation SummitIX , New Orleans, September 2003.Lakoff, George  (1987).
Women, Fire and DangerousThings.
Chicago:  University of Chicago Press.Lenat, D. B.
(1995).
CYC: A large-scale investment inknowledge infrastructure.
Communications of theACM,  38(11),  33?38.Marcu, Daniel (1997).
From Discourse Structures toText Summaries.
In Inderjeet Mani, and MarkMaybury (Eds.
), Intelligent Scalable Text Summari-zation, Proceedings of a Workshop Sponsored bythe ACL , 82?88.
Somerset NJ:  Association forComputational Linguistics.Martin, James (1992).
English text:  System and struc-ture.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Co.McRae, K., and Boisvert, S.  (1998).
Automatic se-mantic similarity priming.
Journal of ExperimentalPsychology:  Learning, Memory and Cognition,24(3),   558?572.Milstead, J.L.
(2001).
Standards for relationships be-tween subject indexing terms.
In C.A.
Bean and R.Green (Eds.).
Relationships in the organization ofknowledge (pp.
53?66).
Kluwer Academic Pub-lishers.Molholt, P. (1996).
A Model for Standardization in theDefinition and Form of Associative, InterconceptLinks.
(Doctoral dissertation, Rensselaer Polytech-nic Institute).Morris, Jane and Hirst, Graeme (1991).
Lexical cohe-sion computed by thesaural relations as an indicatorof the structure of text.
Computational Linguistics,17(1),  21?48.Morris, Jane and Hirst, Graeme (2004).
The subjectiv-ity of lexical cohesion in text.
A A A I Spring Sympo-sium on Exploring Affect and Attitude in Text ,Stanford.Neelameghan, A.
(2001).
Lateral relationships in mul-ticultural, multilingual databases in the spiritual andreligious domains:  The OM Information Service.In C. Bean and R. Green (Eds.
),  Relationships inthe organization of knowledge (pp.
185?198).Norwell, Mass.
:  Kluwer Academic Publishers.Neelameghan, A., and Ravichandra, R.  (1976).
Non-hierarchical associative relationships:  Their typesand computer generation of RT links.
Library Sci-ence,  (13),  24?42.Roget, Peter Mark.
Roget?s International Thesaurus.Many editions and publishers.Silber, H. Gregory and McCoy, Kathleen F. (2002).Efficiently computed lexical chains as an interme-diate representation for automatic text summariza-tion.
Computational Linguistics , 28(4), 487?496.
