Extending Document Summarization to Information Graphics?Sandra Carberry, ?
?Stephanie Elzer, ?
?
?Nancy Green, ?Kathleen McCoy and ?Daniel Chester?Dept.
of Computer Science, University of Delaware, Newark, DE 19716(carberry, mccoy, chester@cis.udel.edu)??Dept.
of Computer Science, Millersville Univ., Millersville, PA 17551(elzer@cs.millersville.edu)?
?
?Dept.
of Math.
Sciences, Univ.
of North Carolina at Greensboro, Greensboro, NC 27402(nlgreen@uncg.edu)AbstractInformation graphics (non-pictorial graphics suchas bar charts or line graphs) are an importantcomponent of multimedia documents.
Often suchgraphics convey information that is not containedelsewhere in the document.
Thus document summa-rization must be extended to include summarizationof information graphics.
This paper addresses ourwork on graphic summarization.
It argues that themessage that the graphic designer intended to con-vey must play a major role in determining the con-tent of the summary, and it outlines our approachto identifying this intended message and using it toconstruct the summary.1 IntroductionSummarization work has focused primarily on thewritten words in a document.
However, graphicsare an important part of many documents, and theyoften convey information that is not included else-where in the document.
Thus as text summarizationbranches out, it is essential that it consider the sum-marization of graphical information in documents.Graph summarization has received some atten-tion.
(Yu et al, 2002) has used pattern recogni-tion techniques to summarize interesting features ofautomatically generated graphs of time-series datafrom a gas turbine engine.
(Futrelle and Nikolakis,1995) developed a constraint grammar formalismfor parsing vector-based visual displays and produc-ing structured representations of the elements com-prising the display.
The goal of Futrelle?s projectis to produce a graphic that summarizes one ormore graphics from a document (Futrelle, 1999).The summary graphic might be a simplification ofa graphic or a merger of several graphics from thedocument, along with an appropriate summary cap-tion.
Thus the end result of summarization will it-self be a graphic.Our project is concerned with information graph-ics (non-pictorial graphics such as bar charts or linegraphs).
Our current focus is on providing an ini-tial summary of an information graphic, within alarger interactive natural language system that canrespond to followup questions about the graphic.There are several useful applications for a systemthat can summarize information graphics.
For dig-ital libraries, the initial summary of the graphicwill be used in conjunction with the documenttext/summary to provide a more complete represen-tation of the content of the document to be usedfor searching and indexing.
In the case of environ-ments with low-bandwidth transmission and minia-ture viewing facilities, such as cellular telephonesfor accessing the web, the initial summary and fol-lowup capability will provide an alternative modal-ity for access to the document.However, the most compelling application of theoverall system is to provide effective access to in-formation graphics for individuals with sight im-pairments.
The rapidly growing Information Infras-tructure has had a major impact on society and thedevelopment of technology.
However, the growingreliance on visual information display paradigmsobliges society to ensure that individuals with visualimpairments can access and assimilate informationresources as effectively as their sighted counter-parts.
The underlying hypothesis of our work is thatalternative access to what the graphic looks like isnot enough ?
the user should be provided with themessage and knowledge that one would gain fromviewing the graphic in order to enable effective andefficient use of this information resource.
Thus oursystem will present the user with an initial summarythat includes the primary message that the graphicdesigner intended to convey, augmented with rel-evant interesting features of the graphic, and theninteractively allow the user to access more detailedsummaries of information contained in the graphic.As an example of the kinds of summaries that weenvision, consider the information graphic in Fig-ure 1.
The graphic designer?s communicative goal isostensibly to convey the sharp increase in bankrupt-cies in 2001 compared with the previous decreasingtrend.
More detailed features that might be of inter-est include 1) that bankruptcies had been decreasingat a steady rate since 1998, 2) that bankruptcies hadbeen decreasing slowly since 1998, 3) the percent-age decrease each year, 4) the percentage increasein bankruptcies in 2001, 5) the absolute increase inbankruptcies in 2001, and 6) the total number ofbankruptcies in 2001.
Thus the initial summary ofthis graphic might beThis graphic shows that althoughDelaware bankruptcy personal filingsdecreased slowly and steadily from 1998to 2000, they rose sharply in 2001.Note that the proposed summary includes the hy-pothesized intended message of the graphic, alongwith the first two of the additional interesting fea-tures of the graphic.
The selection of additional fea-tures to augment the summary is discussed furtherin Section 3.3.
The system would then respond touser requests for additional information by present-ing some or all of the other interesting features thathad been identified, as discussed in Section 3.4.This paper provides an overview of our project.Section 2 discusses the essential role of intentionrecognition in graphics summarization.
It arguesnot only that the intended message of the graphicdesigner must be inferred and included in a sum-mary of a graphic, but also that the intended mes-sage significantly influences the additional propo-sitions that should be included in the summary.Section 3 presents our approach to graph summa-rization.
It discusses how we use a computer vi-sion module to construct an XML representationthat captures the components of the graphic andtheir relationship to one another, and how we usea Bayesian belief network to hypothesize the inten-tions of the graph designer.
The paper then dis-cusses our plans for constructing a summary thatincludes the graphic designer?s intended messagealong with highly ranked additional propositions,and how the lesser ranked propositions will be usedin an interactive natural language system that re-sponds to the user?s requests for further summariesof additional features of the graphic.2 The Role of Intention in GraphicsSummarizationText summarization has generally relied on statis-tical techniques and identification and extractionof key sentences from documents.
However, it iswidely acknowledged that to truly understand a textand produce the best summary, one must under-stand the document and recognize the intentions ofthe author.
Recent work in text summarization haspersonal filingsDelaware bankruptcy300025001000150020001998 1999 2000 2001Figure 1: Graphic from a City Newspaper60 70 80 90 01$15105Black womenWhite womenMedian IncomeIn thousands of 2001 dollars1948Figure 2: Graphic from Newsweek Magazinebegun to address this issue.
For example, (Marcu,2000) presents algorithms for automatically identi-fying the rhetorical structure of a text and arguesthat the hypothesized rhetorical structure can besuccessfully used in text summarization.Information graphics are an important componentof many documents.
In some cases, informationgraphics are stand-alone and constitute the entiredocument.
This is the case for many graphics ap-pearing in newspapers, such as the graphic shownin Figure 1.
On the other hand, when an article iscomprised of text and graphics, the graphic gener-ally expands on the text and contributes to the dis-course purpose (Grosz and Sidner, 1986) of the arti-cle.
For example, Figure 2 illustrates a graphic fromNewsweek showing that the income of black womenhas risen dramatically over the last decade and hasreached the level of white women.
Although this in-formation is not conveyed elsewhere in the article, itcontributes to the overall communicative intentionof this portion of the article ?
namely, that therehas been a ?monumental shifting of the sands?
withregard to the achievements of black women.Our project is concerned with the understand-ing and summarization of information graphics: barcharts, line graphs, pie charts, etc.
We contend thatanalyzing the data points underlying an informa-tion graphic is insufficient.
One must instead iden-tify the message that the graphic designer intendedto convey via the design choices that were madein constructing the graphic.
(Although one mightsuggest relying on captions to provide the intendedmessage of a graphic, Corio and Lapalme foundin a large corpus study (Corio and Lapalme, 1999)that captions are often missing or are very generaland uninformative; our collected corpus of informa-tion graphics supports their observations.)
Designchoices include selection of chart type (bar chart,pie chart, line graph, etc.
), organization of informa-tion in the chart (for example, aggregation of bars ina bar chart), and attention-getting devices that high-light certain aspects of a chart (such as coloring onebar of a bar chart different from the others).
Notonly should the graphic designer?s intended mes-sage comprise the primary component of any sum-mary, but this intended message has a strong influ-ence on the salience of additional propositions thatmight be included in the summary.To see the importance of recognizing the graphicdesigner?s intended message, consider the twographics in Figure 3.
The one on the left, Fig-ure 3a, appeared in an NSF publication.
Both graph-ics were constructed from the same data set.
Theintended message of the graphic in Figure 3a is thatthe salary of females is consistently less than that ofmales for each of the science and engineering dis-ciplines.1 Notice that the graphic designer selectedan organization for the graphic in Figure 3a that fa-cilitated the comparison between male and femalesalaries in each field.
A different display of thesame data would facilitate different analyses.
Forexample, the graph in Figure 3b depicts the samedata as the graph in Figure 3a, yet the organiza-tion tends to draw attention to comparisons withinmale and female groups rather than between them,1This graphic was constructed by a colleague who servedon the NSF panel that prepared the report.
Thus we know theintentions underlying the graphic.and perhaps an integration/comparison of the mes-sages conveyed by the two subgraphs.
Thus the in-tended message of the graphic in Figure 3b appearsto be that the ranking of the disciplines by salary areabout the same for both men and women.
The dis-tinctions between presentation formats illustrate theextent to which the format can itself convey infor-mation relevant to the graphic designer?s intendedmessage.Now let us consider how the intended messageinfluences additional information that might be in-cluded in a summary.
Suppose that 1) the salarydifferential between females and males was signif-icantly larger in the life sciences than in other dis-ciplines and 2) the average salary for both femalesand males was much larger in engineering than inany of the other disciplines.
Feature 1) would beparticularly interesting and relevant to the intendedmessage of Figure 3a, and thus should be includedas part of the graphic?s summary.
On the other hand,this aspect would be less relevant to the intendedmessage of Figure 3b and thus not as important toinclude.
Similarly, Feature 2) would be particularlyrelevant to the intended message of Figure 3b andthus should be given high priority for inclusion inits summary.
Although an interactive system thatcould analyze a graphic to any desired level of de-tail might extract from the graphic the informationin both 1) and 2) above, we contend that a summaryof the graphic should prioritize content according toits relevance to the designer?s intended message.3 Graphic SummarizationOur architecture for graphic summarization consistsof modules for identifying the components of thegraphic, hypothesizing the graphic designer?s in-tended message, planning the content of the sum-mary, organizing a coherent summary, and interac-tive followup.
The following sections discuss fourof these modules.3.1 Analyzing and Classifying a GraphicThe visual extraction module takes a screen imageof an information graphic.
It is responsible for rec-ognizing the individual components comprising thegraphic, identifying the relationship of the differentcomponents to one another and to the graphic as awhole, and classifying the graphic as to type.
Thisincludes using heuristics (such as relative positionof a string of characters) to identify the axis labels?
for example, that the y-axis label is Delaware2The source of the leftmost graph is the National ScienceFoundation, Survey of Doctorate Recipients, 1997.                 80,00070,00060,00050,000 50,00060,00070,00080,00040,00030,00020,000 20,00030,00040,000FEMALE SALARIES MALE SALARIESComputer/AllMath SciEngin.
Phys.Sci.
Sci.SocialSci.Life Sci.Social Sci.AllComputer/Math Sci.Phys Sci.EngineeringSocial Sci.Life Sci.Computer/Math Sci.AllPhys Sci.EngineeringLifeFemaleMale(a) (b)Figure 3: Two alternative graphs from the same data2bankruptcy personal filings in Figure 1.
Our cur-rent implementation deals only with gray scale im-ages (in pgm format) of bar charts, pie charts, andline graphs, though eventually it will be extended tohandle color and other kinds of information graph-ics.
The output of the visual extraction componentis an XML file that describes the chart and all of itscomponents.3.2 Identifying the Intended MessageThe second module of our architecture is respon-sible for inferring the graphic designer?s intendedmessage.
In their work on multimedia generation,the AutoBrief group proposed that speech act the-ory can be extended to the generation of graphicalpresentations (Kerpedjiev and Roth, 2000; Green etal., 2004).
They contended that the graphic designwas intended to convey its message by facilitatingrequisite perceptual and cognitive tasks.
By percep-tual tasks we mean tasks that can be performed bysimply viewing the graphic, such as finding the topof a bar in a bar chart; by cognitive tasks we meantasks that are done via mental computations, such ascomputing the difference between two numbers.The goal of our intention recognizer is the inverseof the design process: namely, to use the displayedgraphic as evidence to hypothesize the communica-tive intentions of its author.
This is done by an-alyzing the graphic to identify evidence about thedesigner?s intended message and then using planrecognition (Carberry, 1990) to hypothesize the au-thor?s communicative intent.3.2.1 Evidence about IntentionFollowing AutoBrief (Kerpedjiev and Roth, 2000),we hypothesize that the graphic designer choosesa design that makes important tasks (the ones thatthe viewer is intended to perform in recognizing thegraphic?s message) as salient or as easy as possi-ble.
Thus salience and ease of performance shouldbe taken into account in reasoning about the graphicdesigner?s intentions.There are several ways that a task can be madesalient.
The graphic designer can draw attentionto a component of a graphic (make it salient) byan attention-getting or highlighting device, such asby coloring a bar in a bar chart differently fromthe other bars as in Figure 1 or by exploding awedge in a pie chart (Mittal, 1997).
Attributes ofthe highlighted graphic component are treated asfocused entities.
Nouns in captions also serve toestablish focused entities.
For example, a captionsuch as ?Studying not top priority?
would estab-lish the noun studying as a focused entity.
Focusedentities that appear as instantiations of parametersin perceptual or cognitive tasks serve as evidencethat those tasks might be particularly salient.
Sim-ilarly, verbs that appear in captions serve as evi-dence for the salience of particular tasks.
For ex-ample, the verb beats in a caption such as ?CanadaBeats Europe?
serves as evidence for the salienceof a Recognize relative difference task.
In the fu-ture, we plan to capture the influence of surroundingtext by identifying the important concepts from thetext using lexical chains.
Lexical chains have beenused in text summarization (Barzilay et al, 1999),and our linear time algorithm (Silber and McCoy,2002) makes their computation feasible even forlarge texts.
Whether a task is salient and the methodby which it was made salient are used as evidencein our plan inference system.The graphic design makes some tasks easier thanothers.
We use a set of rules, based on research bycognitive psychologists, to estimate the relative ef-fort of performing different perceptual and cogni-tive tasks.
These rules, described in (Elzer et al,2004), have been validated by eye-tracking experi-ments.
Since the viewer is intended to recognize themessage that the graphic designer wants to convey,we contend that the designer will choose a graphicdesign that makes the requisite tasks easy to per-form.
This was illustrated in the two graphics inFigure 3.
The relative effort of performing a task isthus used as another source of evidence in our planinference framework.3.2.2 The Plan Inference ProcessOur plan inference framework takes the form ofa Bayesian belief network.
Bayesian belief net-works have been applied to a variety of problems,including reasoning about utterances (Charniak andGoldman, 1993) and observed actions (Albrecht etal., 1997).
The belief network uses plan operators,along with evidence that is gleaned from the infor-mation graphic itself (as discussed in the precedingsection), to reason about the likelihood that vari-ous hypothesized candidate plans represent the in-tentions of the graphic designer.Plan Operators for Information Graphics Oursystem uses plan operators that capture knowledgeabout how the graphic designer?s goal of conveyinga message can be achieved via the viewer perform-ing certain perceptual and cognitive tasks, as wellas knowledge about how information-access tasks,such as finding the value of an entity in a graphic,can be decomposed into simpler subgoals.
Our planoperators consist of:?
Goal: the goal that the operator achieves?
Data-requirements: requirements that the datamust satisfy in order for the operator to be ap-plicable in a graphic planning paradigm?
Display-constraints: features that constrainhow the graphic is eventually constructed ifthis operator is part of the final plan?
Body: lower-level subgoals that must be ac-complished in order to achieve the overall goalof the operator.Figures 4 and 5 present two plan operators for thegoal of finding the value <v> of an attribute <att>for a graphical element <e> (for example, the valueassociated with the top of a bar in a bar chart).
Thebody of the operator in Figure 4 specifies that thegoal can be achieved by a primitive perceptual taskin which the viewer just perceives the value; thiscould be done, for example, if the element in thegraphic is annotated with its value.
On the otherhand, the body of the operator in Figure 5 captures adifferent way of finding the value, one that presum-ably requires more effort.
It specifies the perceptualtask of finding the values <l1> and <l2> surround-ing the desired value on the axis along with the frac-tion <f> of the distance that the desired value liesbetween <l1> and <l2>, followed by the cogni-tive task of interpolating between the retrieved val-ues <l1> and <l2>.Plan inference uses the plan operators to reasonsbackwards from the XML representation of the ob-served graphic (constructed by the visual extractionmodule briefly described in Section 3.1).
The dis-play constraints are used to eliminate operators fromconsideration ?
if the graphic does not capture theoperator?s constraints on the display, then the opera-tor could not have been part of a plan that producedthe graphic.
The data requirements are used to in-stantiate parameters in the operator ?
the data musthave had certain characteristics for the operator tohave been included in the graphic designer?s plan,and these often limit how the operator?s argumentscan be instantiated.The Bayesian Belief Network The plan operatorsare used to dynamically construct a Bayesian net-work for each new information graphic.
The net-work includes the possible top level communicativeintentions (with uninstantiated parameters), such asthe intention to convey a trend, and the alternativeways of achieving them via different plan opera-tors.
The perceptual tasks of lowest effort and thetasks that are hypothesized as potentially salient areadded to the network.
Other tasks are entered intothe network as they are inferred during chaining onthe plan operators; unification serves to instantiateparameters in higher-level nodes.
Evidence nodesare added for each of the tasks entered into the net-work, and they provide evidence (such as the degreeof perceptual effort required for a task or whethera parameter of the task is a focused entity in thegraphic as discussed in Section 3.2.1) for or againstthe instantiated tasks to which they are linked.
Af-ter propagation of evidence, the top-level intentionwith the highest probability is hypothesized as thegraphic designer?s primary intention for the graphic.Of course, a Bayesian network requires a set ofconditional probabilities, such as 1) the probabilitythat perceptual Task-A will be of low, medium, orhigh effort given that the graphic designer?s plan in-cludes the viewer performing Task-A, 2) the prob-ability that parameter <x> of Task-A will be a fo-Goal: Find-value(<viewer>, <g>, <e>, <ds>, <att>, <v>)Gloss: Given graphical element <e> in graphic <g>, <viewer> can find the value <v>in dataset <ds> of attribute <att> for <e>Data-req: Dependent-variable(<att>, <ds>)Body: 1.
Perceive-dependent-value(<viewer>, <g>, <att>, <e>, <v>)Figure 4: Operator for achieving a goal perceptuallyGoal: Find-value(<viewer>, <g>, <e>, <ds>, <att>, <v>)Gloss: Given graphical element <e> in graphic <g>, <viewer> can find the value <v>in dataset <ds> of attribute <att> for <e>Data-req: Natural-quantitative-ordering(<att>)Display-const: Ordered-values-on-axis(<g>, <axis>, <att>)Body: 1.
Perceive-info-to-interpolate(<viewer>,<g>,<axis>,<e>,<l1>,<l2>,<f>)2.
Interpolate(<viewer>, <l1>, <l2>, <f>, <v>)Figure 5: Operator that employs both perceptual and cognitive subgoalscused entity in the caption given that the graphic de-signer?s plan includes the viewer performing Task-A, or 3) the probability that the viewer perform-ing Task-B will be part of the designer?s intendedplan given that Task-A is part of his plan.
(Note thatthere may be several alternative ways of perform-ing a particular task, as illustrated by the two planoperators displayed in Figures 4 and 5.)
We havecollected a rapidly expanding corpus of informationgraphics, and have analyzed a small part of this cor-pus to construct an initial set of probabilities.
Theresults suggest that our approach is very promising.We will increase the number of analyzed graphicsto improve the probability estimates.3.3 Planning the Content of the SummaryThe recognized intention of the graphic designer,such as to convey an overall increasing trend or tocompare salaries of females and males in differentdisciplines as in Figure 3a, will provide one set ofhighly salient propositions that should be includedin the graphic?s summary.
Once the intentions havebeen recognized, other visual features of the graphicwill influence the identification of additional salientpropositions.We conducted a set of experiments in which sub-jects were asked to write a brief summary of a set ofline graphs, each of which arguably could be saidto have the same high-level intention.
Althougheach summary included the high-level intention, thesummaries often differed significantly for differentgraphs.
By comparing these with summaries of thesame graph by different subjects, we have hypoth-esized that certain features, such as the variance ofthe data, can influence the generated summary, andthat the importance of including a specific feature ina summary is related to the high-level intention ofthe graphic.
For example, variation in the data willbe relevant for an intention of conveying a trend,but it will be less important than the overall slopeof the data points.
This impact of the intended mes-sage on the priority of including a specific featurein a graphic was illustrated in Section 2, where weshowed how a significantly larger differential be-tween female and male salaries for one particulardiscipline would be more relevant to the summary ofthe graphic in Figure 3a than for the graphic in Fig-ure 3b.
In addition, our experiments indicate that thestrength of a feature in the graphic also influencesits inclusion in a summary.
For example, the moreragged a sequence of line segments, the more salientvariance becomes for inclusion in a summary.Once the content planning module has identifiedand ranked interesting features that might augmentthe intended message of the graphic, the most im-portant propositions will be organized into a coher-ent summary that can be stored for access in a digitallibrary or presented to a user.
In the future, we willalso investigate integrating the summary of an infor-mation graphic with the summary of its surroundingtext.3.4 Interactive FollowupOne of the primary goals of our work is an inter-active natural language system that can convey thecontent of an information graphic to a user withsight impairments.
For this application, the sum-mary will be rendered in natural language and con-veyed as an initial summary to the user via speechsynthesis.
The system will then provide the userwith the opportunity to seek additional information.We will utilize the propositions that were not in-cluded in the initial message as indicative of ad-ditional information about the graphic that mightbe useful.
Several kinds of followup will be pro-vided.
For example, if the user requests focusedfollowup, the system will categorize the remainingpropositions (for example, extreme values, trend de-tail, etc.)
and ask the user to select one of the cate-gories of further information.
The system will thenconstruct a followup message summarizing the mostimportant (often all) of the remaining propositionsin the selected category.
This interactive followupwill continue until either all the propositions havebeen conveyed or the user terminates the followupcycle.4 SummaryThis paper extends document summarization to thesummarization of information graphics.
It arguesthat an effective summary must be based on themessage that the graphic designer intended to con-vey in constructing the graphic, and that this in-tended message strongly influences the relevanceof other propositions that might be included in thesummary.
The paper describes our approach tographic summarization, including our plan infer-ence system for inferring the intended message un-derlying a graphic.
This work has many applica-tions.
These include enabling information graphicsto be accessed via content in a digital library, allow-ing access to information graphics via devices withsmall bandwidth (such as cellular phones), and mostimportantly making information graphics accessibleto individuals with sight impairments via an interac-tive natural language system that can provide sum-maries at various levels of detail.ReferencesDavid Albrecht, Ingrid Zukerman, Ann Nicholson,and A.
Bud.
1997.
Towards a bayesian modelfor keyhole plan recognition in large domains.In Proceedings of the Sixth International Confer-ence on User Modeling, pages 365?376.R.
Barzilay, K. McKeown, and M. Elhadad.
1999.Information fusion in the context of multi-document summarization.
In Proc.
of the 37thAnnual Meeting of the ACL, pages 550?557.Sandra Carberry.
1990.
Plan Recognition in Natu-ral Language Dialogue.
ACL-MIT Press Serieson Natural Language Processing.
MIT Press.Eugene Charniak and Robert Goldman.
1993.
Abayesian model of plan recognition.
Artificial In-telligence Journal, 64:53?79.Marc Corio and Guy Lapalme.
1999.
Generation oftexts for information graphics.
In Proceedings ofthe 7th European Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration EWNLG?99, pages 49?58.Stephanie Elzer, Nancy Green, Sandra Carberry,and James Hoffman.
2004.
Incorporating per-ceptual task effort into the recognition of inten-tion in information graphics.
In DiagrammaticRepresentation and Inference: Proceedings ofthe Third International Conference on the Theoryand Application of Diagrams, LNAI 2980, pages255?270.Robert Futrelle and Nikos Nikolakis.
1995.
Ef-ficient analysis of complex diagrams usingconstraint-based parsing.
In Proceedings of theThird International Conference on DocumentAnalysis and Recognition.Robert Futrelle.
1999.
Summarization of diagramsin documents.
In I. Mani and M. Maybury, edi-tors, Advances in Automated Text Summarization.MIT Press.Nancy Green, Giuseppe Carenini, Stephan Kerped-jiev, Joe Mattis, Johanna Moore, and StevenRoth.
2004.
Autobrief: An experimental systemfor the automatic generation of briefings in inte-grated text and graphics.
International Journal ofHuman-Computer Studies.
to appear.Barbara Grosz and Candace Sidner.
1986.
Atten-tion, Intentions, and the Structure of Discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12(3):175?204.Stephan Kerpedjiev and Steven Roth.
2000.
Map-ping communicative goals into conceptual tasksto generate graphics in discourse.
In Proceed-ings of the International Conference on Intelli-gent User Interfaces, pages 60?67.Daniel Marcu.
2000.
The rhetorical parsing of un-restricted texts: A surface-based approach.
Com-putational Linguistics, 26(3):395?448.Vibhu Mittal.
1997.
Visual prompts and graphicaldesign: A framework for exploring the designspace of 2-d charts and graphs.
In Proceedingsof the Fourteenth National Conference on Artifi-cial Intelligence, pages 57?63.Gregory Silber and Kathleen McCoy.
2002.
Effi-ciently computed lexical chains as an intermedi-ate representation for automatic text summariza-tion.
Computational Linguistics, 28(4):487?496.Jin Yu, Jim Hunter, Ehud Reiter, and Somaya-julu Sripada.
2002.
Recognising visual patternsto communicate gas turbine time-series data.
InES2002, pages 105?118.
