Revising the WORDNET DOMAINS Hierarchy: semantics, coverage andbalancingLuisa Bentivogli, Pamela Forner, Bernardo Magnini, Emanuele PiantaITC-irst ?
Istituto per la Ricerca Scientifica e TecnologicaVia Sommarive 18, Povo ?
Trento, Italy, 38050email:{bentivo, forner, magnini, pianta}@itc.itAbstractThe continuous expansion of the multilingualinformation society has led in recent years to a pressingdemand for multilingual linguistic resources suitable tobe used for different applications.In this paper we present the WordNet DomainsHierarchy (WDH), a language-independent resourcecomposed of 164, hierarchically organized, domainlabels (e.g.
Architecture, Sport, Medicine).
AlthoughWDH has been successfully applied to various NaturalLanguage Processing tasks, the first available versionpresented some problems, mostly related to the lack of aclear semantics of the domain labels.
Other correlatedissues were the coverage and the balancing of thedomains.
We illustrate a new version of WDHaddressing these problems by an explicit and systematicreference to the Dewey Decimal Classification.
The newversion of WDH has a better defined semantics and isapplicable to a wider range of tasks.1 IntroductionThe continuous expansion of the multilingualinformation society with a growing number of newlanguages present on the Web has led in recentyears to a pressing demand for multilingualapplications.
To support such applications,multilingual language resources are needed, whichhowever require a lot of human effort to be built.For this reason, the development of language-independent resources which factorize what iscommon to many languages, and are possiblylinked to the language-specific resources, couldbring great advantages to the development of themultilingual information society.A language-independent resource, usable inmany automatic and human applications, isrepresented by domain hierarchies.
The notion ofdomain is related to similar notions such assemantic field, subject matter, broad topic, subjectcode, subject domain, category.
These notions areused, sometimes interchangeably, sometimes withsignificant distinctions, in various fields such aslinguistics, lexicography, cataloguing, textcategorization.
As far as this work is concerned,we define a domain as an area of knowledge whichis somehow recognized as unitary.
A domain canbe characterized by the name of a discipline wherea certain knowledge area is developed (e.g.chemistry) or by the specific object of theknowledge area (e.g.
food).
Although objects ofknowledge and disciplines that study them areclearly related, the relation between these twopoints of view on domains is sometimes blurredand may be a source of uncertainty on their exactdefinition.Another interesting duality when speaking aboutdomains is related to the fact that knowledgemanifests itself in both words and texts.
So thenotion of domain can be applied both to the studyof words, where a domain is the area of knowledgeto which a certain lexical concept belongs, or to thestudy of texts, where the domain of a text is itsbroad topic.
In this work we will assume that alsothese two points of view on domains are strictlyintertwined.By their nature, domains can be organized inhierarchies based on a relation of specificity.
Forinstance we can say that TENNIS is a more specificdomain than SPORT, or that ARCHITECTURE is moregeneral than TOWN PLANNING.Domain hierarchies can be usefully integratedinto other linguistic resources and are alsoprofitably used in many Natural LanguageProcessing (NLP) tasks such as Word SenseDisambiguation (Magnini et al 2002), TextCategorization (Schutze, 1998), InformationRetrieval (Walker and Amsler, 1986).As regards the usage of Domain hierarchies inthe field of multilingual lexicography, an exampleis given by the EuroWordNet Domain-ontology, alanguage independent domain hierarchy to whichinterlingual concepts (ILI-records) can be assigned(Vossen, 1998).
In the same line, see also theSIMPLE domain hierarchy (SIMPLE, 2000).Large domain hierarchies are also available onthe Internet, mainly meant for classifying webdocuments.
See for instance the Google and Yahoodirectories.A large-scale application of a domain hierarchyto a lexicon is represented by WORDNET DOMAINS(Magnini and Cavagli?, 2000).
WORDNETDOMAINS is a lexical resource developed at ITC-irst where each WordNet synset (Fellbaum, 1998)is annotated with one or more domain labelsselected from a domain hierarchy which wasspecifically created to this purpose.
As theWORDNET DOMAINS Hierarchy (WDH) islanguage-independent, it has been possible toexploit it in the framework of MultiWordNet(Pianta et al, 2002), a multilingual lexical databasedeveloped at ITC-irst in which the Italiancomponent is strictly aligned with the EnglishWordNet.
In MultiWordNet, the domaininformation has been automatically transferredfrom English to Italian, resulting in a Italianversion of WORDNET DOMAINS.
For instance, asthe English synset {court, tribunal, judicature} wasannotated with the domain LAW, also the Italiansynset {corte, tribunale}, which is aligned with thecorresponding English synset, results automaticallyannotated with the LAW domain.
This procedurecan be applied to any other WordNet (or part of it)aligned with Princeton WordNet (see for instancethe Spanish WordNet).It is worth noticing that two of the main on-going projects addressing the construction ofmultilingual resources, that is MEANING (Rigauet al 2002) and BALKANET (see web site), makeuse of WORDNET DOMAINS.
Finally, WORDNETDOMAINS is being profitably used by the NLPcommunity mainly for Word SenseDisambiguation tasks in various languages.Another application of domain hierarchies canbe found in the field of corpus creation.
In manyexisting corpora (see for instance the BNC, theANC, the Brown and LOB Corpora) domain is oneof the most used criteria for text selection and/orclassification.
Given that a domain hierarchy islanguage independent, if the same domainhierarchy is used to build reference corpora fordifferent languages, then it would be easy to create(a first approximation of) comparable corpora byputting in correspondence corpora sectionsbelonging to the same domain.An example of a corpus in which the completerepresentation of domains is pursued in asystematic way is represented by the MEANINGItalian corpus, a large size corpus of writtencontemporary Italian in which a subset of theWDH labels has been chosen as the fundamentalcriterion for the selection of the texts to beincluded in the corpus (Bentivogli et al, 2003).Given the relevance of language-independentdomain hierarchies for multilingual applications, itis of primary importance that these resources havea well-defined semantics and structure in order tobe useful in various application fields.
This paperreports the work done to improve the WDH so thatit complies with such requirements.
In particular,the WDH revision has been carried out withreference to the Dewey Decimal Classification.The paper is organized as follows.
Section 2briefly introduces the WORDNET DOMAINSHierarchy and its main characteristics, with a shortoverview of the Dewey Decimal Classificationsystem.
Section 3 describes features and propertiesof the revision.
Finally, in section 4, conclusionsare reported.2 The WordNet Domains HierarchyThe first version of the WDH was composed of164 domain labels selected starting from thesubject field codes used in current dictionaries, andthe subject codes contained in the Dewey DecimalClassification (DDC), a general knowledgeorganization tool which is the most widely usedtaxonomy for library organization purposes.Domain labels were organized in five main trees,reaching a maximum depth of four.
Figure 1 showsa fragment of one of the five main trees in theWORDNET DOMAINS original hierarchy.DoctrinesPsychologyArtReligionPsychoanalysisDanceDrawingMusicPhotographyPlastic ArtsSculptureNumismaticsJewelleryPaintingPhilatelyPhilosophyTheatreMythologyOccultismRoman CatholicTheologyFigure 1: Fragment of the original WDHDomain labels were initially conceived to beapplication-oriented, that is, they have beenintegrated in WordNet with the main purpose ofallowing the categorization of word senses and toprovide useful information during thedisambiguation process.The second level of WDH, where the so-calledBasic Domains are represented, includes labelssuch as ART, SPORT, RELIGION and HISTORY,while in the third level a degree of majorspecialization is reproduced, and domains, like forexample, DRAWING, PAINTING, TENNIS,VOLLEYBALL, and ARCHAEOLOGY can be found.
ForNLP tasks, the set of Basic Domains has proved topossess a suitable level of abstraction andgranularity.Although the first version of WDH found manyapplications in different scenarios, it presentedsome problems.
First, the domain labels did nothave a defined semantics.
The content of the labelscould be suggested by the lexical meaning of theirname, but there was no explicit indication abouttheir intended interpretation.Second, it was not clear whether the BasicDomains met certain requirements such asknowledge coverage and balancing.
In fact, theBasic Domains are supposed to possess acomparable degree of granularity and, at the sametime, to cover all human knowledge.
However,they did not always posses such characteristics.
Forinstance VETERINARY was put at the same level asECONOMY, although these two domains obviouslydo not posses the same level of granularity.Moreover not all branches of human knowledgewere represented (see for instance the HOMEdomain).The purpose of the work presented here was,therefore, to find a solution for such problems, inorder to improve the applicability of WDH in awider range of fields.
The solution we propose iscrucially based on the Dewey DecimalClassification (edition 21), which has been used asa reference point for defining a clear semantics,preventing overlapping among domains, andassessing the Basic Domains coverage andgranularity issues.2.1 The Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC)The Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC) system(Mitchell et al 1996) is the most widely usedtaxonomy for library classification purposesproviding a logical system for the organization ofevery item of knowledge through well-definedsubject codes hierarchically organized.
Thesemantics of each subject code is determined by anumeric code, a short lexical description associatedto it, and by the hierarchical relations with theother subject codes.
Another characteristic of theDDC is that a handbook is available explaininghow texts should be classified under subject codes.The DDC is not just for organizing bookcollections; it has also been licensed forcataloguing internet resources (see for exampleBUBL http://bubl.ac.uk/link/) and it was conceivedto accommodate the expansion and evolution ofthe body of human knowledge.The DDC hierarchy is arranged by disciplines(or fields of study), and this entails that a subjectmay appear in more than one discipline, dependingon the aspect of the topic discussed.The DDC hierarchical structure allows a topic tobe defined as part of the broader topic above it, andthat determines the meaning of the class and itsrelation to other classes.
At the broadest level,called Main Classes (or First summary), the DDCis composed of ten mutually exclusive mainclasses, which together cover the entire world ofknowledge.
Each main class is sub-divided into tendivisions, (the Hundred Divisions, or SecondSummary) and each division is split into tensections (the Thousand Section, also called ThirdSummary).Each category in the DDC is represented by anumeric code as the example below shows.700  Art730  Plastic Arts736 Carving736.2 Precious Stones736.23 Diamonds736.25 Sapphires736.4 Wood738 Ceramic Arts739 Art Metalwork740  Drawing750  PaintingThe first digit of the numbers indicates the mainclass, (700 is used for all Arts) the second digitindicates the hundred division, (730 corresponds toPlastic arts, 740 to Drawing, 750 to Painting) andthe third digit indicates the section (736 representsCarving, 738 Ceramic arts, 739 Art metalwork).Moreover, almost all sub-classes are furthersubdivided.
A decimal point follows the third digituntil the degree of specification needed (736.23Diamonds, 736.25 Sapphires).3 The Revision of the WDHThe revision of the first version of the WDH aimedat satisfying the following properties andcharacteristics:o semantics: each WDH label should have anexplicit semantics and should beunambiguously identified;o disjunction: the interpretation of all WDHlabels should not overlap;o basic coverage: all human knowledge shouldbe covered  by the Basic Domains;o basic balancing: most Basic Domains shouldhave a comparable degree of granularity.In the following sections we are going to showhow a systematic mapping between WDH andDDC can be used to enforce each of the abovecharacteristics.3.1 SemanticsTo give the domain labels a clear semantics so thatthey can be unambiguously identified andinterpreted, we decided to associate each domainlabel to one or more DDC codes as shown below inTable 1.WDH DomainsDDC CodesArt[700-(790-(791.43,792,793.3),710,720,745.5)]Plastic arts 730Sculpture [731:735]Numismatics 737Jewellery 739.27Drawing [740-745.5]Painting 750Graphic arts 760Philately 769.56Photography 770Music 780Cinema 791.43Theatre [792-792.8]Dance [792.8,793.3]Table 1: Fragment of the new WDH with therespective DDC codesIn many cases we found a one-to-one mappingbetween a WDH label and a DDC code (e.g.PAINTING mapped onto 750 or CINEMA onto791.43).
When one-to-one mappings were notfound, artificial DDC codes were created.
Anartificial code, represented within square brackets,is created with reference to various DDC codes orparts of them.
To describe artificial nodes, certainconventions have been adopted.
(i) A series of non-consecutive codes is listedseparated by a comma (see DANCE).
(ii) A series of consecutive codes is indicated by arange.
For instance, the series [731, 732, 733, 734,735] is abbreviated as [731:735] (see SCULPTURE).
(iii) A part of a tree is represented as the differencebetween a tree and one or more of its subtrees,where the tree and the subtrees are identified bytheir roots (see DRAWING).
(iv) The square brackets should be interpreted asmeaning ?the generalities?
of the composition ofcodes contained in the brackets.
So, for instance,[731:735] should be interpreted as the generalitiesof the codes going from 731 to 735.
In the originalDDC, generalities are identified by the 0 decimal.For instance, the code 700 refers to the generalitiesof the codes from 710 to 790.To establish a mapping between labels and codeswe exploited the names of the DDC categories andtheir description in the DDC manual.
This workedpretty well in most cases, but there are someexceptions.
Take for instance the TOURISM domain.Apparently tourism does not occur as a category inthe DDC.
On a closer inspection it came out thatthe categories which are most clearly related totourism are 910.202:World travel guides and910.4:Accounts of travel.Note that a WDH domain can be mapped ontocodes included in different DDC main classes, i.e.disciplines.
For example ARTISANSHIP(745.5:Handicrafts, 338.642:Small business) mapsonto categories located partly under 700:Art andpartly under 300:Social Sciences.
The samehappens with SEXUALITY, a domain that followingthe DDC is studied by many different disciplines,e.g.
philosophy, medicine, psychology, body care.As a consequence of the systematic specificationof the semantics of the WDH domains, some ofthem have been re-labeled with regard to theprevious version of the hierarchy.
For instance, thedomain BOTANY has been changed to PLANTS,ZOOLOGY to ANIMALS, and ALIMENTATION to FOOD.This change of focus from the name of thediscipline to the name of the object of thediscipline is not only in compliance with the newedition of the DDC, but it also reflects current andinternational usage (see, for example, Googlecategories).
In some cases the change of thedomain name comes along with a change of itsintended interpretation.
For instance, we havedecided to enlarge the semantics of the domainZOOTECHNICS and to call it ANIMAL HUSBANDRY, amore generic domain which was missing in theprevious hierarchy.In most cases the hierarchical relations betweenthe WDH domains are the same as the relationsholding between the corresponding DDC codes:MUSIC is more specific than ART in the same wayas 780:Music is more specific than 700:The Arts.To reinforce the hierarchical parallelism betweenthe WDH and the DCC, we re-located somedomains with regard to the previous WDHhierarchy.
For example, OCCULTISM, which wasplaced under RELIGION in the old hierarchy, hasbeen moved under the newly created domainPARANORMAL.
Also, TOPOGRAPHY, previously placedunder ASTRONOMY, has now been moved underGEOGRAPHY.In a few cases however we did not respect thehierarchical relations specified by the DDC, as inthe case of the ARCHITECTURE domain shown inTable 2.
ARCHITECTURE has been mapped onto720:Architecture and TOWN PLANNING onto710:Civic & landscape art.WDH Domains DDC CodesArchitecture  [645,690,710,720]Town Planning 710Buildings 690Furniture 645Table 2: A fragment of WDH for ARCHITECTUREHowever, whereas the 710 code is sibling of 720in the DDC, TOWN PLANNING is child ofARCHITECTURE in WDH.
Also, ARCHITECTURE andTOWN PLANNING should be under ART according tothe DDC, but they have been placed underAPPLIED SCIENCE in WDH.3.2 DisjunctionThis property requires that no DDC code isassociated to more than one WDH label.
In onlyone case this requirement has not been met.Apparently, the DDC does not distinguish betweenthe disciplines of Sociology and Anthropology,and reserves the codes that go from 301 to 307 toboth of them.
Although these two disciplines arestrictly connected, it seems to us that in the currentpractice they are considered as distinct.
So theWDH contains two distinct domains forSOCIOLOGY and ANTHROPOLOGY, which partiallyoverlap because they both map onto the same DDCcodes 301:307.3.3 Basic CoverageThe term basic coverage refers to the idealrequirement that all human knowledge be coveredby the totality of the Basic Domains (i.e.
thedomains composing the second level of WDH).Also in this case, we used the DDC as a goldstandard to measure the coverage of WDH.
Giventhe fact that the DDC has been used for more thana century to classify books and written documentsall over the world, we can assume that the DDCguarantees a complete representation of allbranches of knowledge.
So the basic coverage hasbeen manually checked by verifying that all (oralmost all) the DDC categories can be assigned toat least one Basic Domain.From a practical point of view, it would be verycomplicated to check all the thousands of codescontained in the DDC.
Thus, our check relied ontwo assumptions.
First, when the Basic Domainsare taken as a stand alone set, the semantics of aBasic Domain is given by its specific code togetherwith the codes of its subdomains.
Second, once aDDC code is covered by a Basic Domain,inductively, all the more specific categories arecovered as well.
These assumptions allowed us toactually check only the topmost DDC codes.
Forexample, let?s take the 300 main class of the DDC.Table 3 below shows that all the sub-codes of the300 class are covered by one or more domains.In order to improve the overall WDH coverage,5 completely new domains have been introduced(the first three are Basic): PARANORMAL, HOME,HEALTH, FINANCE and GRAPHIC ARTS.Codes DDC Categories WDH Domains300 ?
Social sciences?
SOCIAL SCIENCE?
SOCIOLOGY?
ANTHROPOLOGY310 ?
General statistics ?
SOCIOLOGY320 ?
Political science ?
POLITICS330 ?
Economics ?
ECONOMY340 ?
Law ?
LAW350 ?
Public administration & military service?
ADMINISTRATION?
MILITARY360 ?
Social problems &services?
SOCIOLOGY?
ECONOMY?
SEXUALITY370 ?
Education ?
PEDAGOGY380?
Commerce,communication,transport?
COMMERCE?
TELECOMMUNICATION?
TRANSPORT390 ?
Customs, etiquette, folklore?
FASHION?
ANTHROPOLOGY?
SEXUALITYTable 3: Coverage of the 300 DDC classWe can now assume that the domain-coverage ofthe new version of WDH is almost equivalent tothat of the DDC, thus ensuring the completerepresentation of all branches of knowledge.The new WDH allowed us to fix a number ofsynset classifications that were unsatisfactory inthe previous version of WORDNET DOMAINS.
Forinstance, in the first version of WORDNETDOMAINS the English/Italian synset {microwaveoven, microwave}/{forno a microonde,microonde} was annotated with the FURNITUREdomain, while the synset {detergent}/{detersivo}was annotated with FACTOTUM (i.e.
no specificdomain) as no better solution was available.
Thenew WDH hierarchy allows for a more appropriateclassification of both synsets within the new HOMEdomain.A few DDC codes are not covered by the newlist of domains either.
These are the codes underthe 000:Generalities class which includesdisciplines such as 010:Bibliography, 020:Library& information sciences, 030:Encyclopedic works,080:General collections.
This section has beenspecifically created for cataloguing general andencyclopedic works and collections.
So it is aidiosyncratic category which is not based onsubject but on the genre of texts.Another set of codes which remains not coveredby WDH are those going from 420 to 490 and from810 to 890.
These DDC codes are devoted tospecific languages and literatures of differentcountries, for example, 430:Germanic Languages,440:Romance Languages, 810:American Literaturein English, etc.
These codes are undoubtedlyrelevant for the classification of books, but are notcompatible with the rationale of WDH, which ismeant to be a language-independent resource.3.4 Basic BalancingThe requirement about basic balancing is meant toassure that all Basic Domains have a comparabledegree of granularity.Defining a granularity metrics for domains is acomplex issue, for which only a tentative solutionis provided here.
At a first glance, three aspectscould be taken into consideration: the number ofpublications about a domain, the number of sub-codes in the DDC, and the relevance of a domainin the social life.As a first attempt, balancing could be evaluatedreferring to the number of publications classifiedunder each Basic Domain.
In fact, data areavailable about the number of texts classifiedunder each of the DDC codes.
Unfortunately, thenumber of books published under a certaincategory may not be indicative of its socialrelevance: very specialized domains may include ahigh number of publications, which howevercirculate in a restricted circle, with low socialimpact.
For example, the number of texts classifiedin the History domain turns out to be more then tentimes the number of texts catalogued under theComputer Science domain.
However, if one looksat the number of HTML pages available on theInternet, or the number of magazines sold in anewspaper stand, or the number of terms used ineveryday life, one cannot maintain that History isten times more relevant than Computer Science.Another approach for evaluating the granularityof domains could be to take into account thenumber of DDC sub-codes corresponding to eachBasic Domain.
Unfortunately, also this approachgives results which are far from being satisfactory.The fact that a discipline has many subdivisionsseems not to be clearly correlated with itsrelevance.
For instance in the DDC manual(version 21) 105 pages can be put incorrespondence with the ENGINEERING domain,whereas only 26 correspond to SPORT.
It shouldalso be said that there is no correlation between thenumber of publications and the number of sub-categories in the DDC.
For instance,ARCHITECTURE has a great number of publicationsclassified under it, but on the contrary, the numberof sub-categories in the DDC is very limited.The third criterion to evaluate the granularity ofdomains is their social relevance, which seems notto be captured adequately by the previous twocriteria.
Of course, social relevance is very difficultto evaluate.
We tentatively took into considerationthe organization of Internet hierarchies such as theGoogle and Yahoo directories, which seem to becloser than the DDC to represent the current socialrelevance of certain domains.
See for instance thehuge number of HTML pages classified in Googleunder the topic Television Programs.
Of courseInternet is only a partial view of the organizationof human knowledge, so we cannot simply rely onthe Internet to evaluate the granularity of thedomains.None of the approaches analyzed so far seems tofit our needs.
Thus we took into consideration afourth criterion, which is based on the DDC aswell.
Instead of counting the number ofsubdivisions under a certain DDC code, wemeasured the depth of the code from the top of thehierarchy.
For instance we can say that 700:Art hasdepth 1, 780:Music has depth 2, 782:Vocal Musichas depth 3, and so on.
We make the assumptionthat two DDC codes with the same depth have thesame granularity.
For instance we assume that782:Vocal Music and 382:Foreign Trade have thesame granularity (both have depth 3).In order to evaluate the granularity of the BasicDomains against the DDC, we can compare WDHlabels and DDC codes with the same depth.
Giventhat the Basic Domains have depth 2, we shouldcompare them to the so called Hundred Divisions(000, 010, 020, 030, ?, 100, 110, 120, etc.
).Summing up, we will say that the Basic Domainsare balanced if they can all be mapped onto theHundred Divisions.
Also, in the comparison weshould take into account that the Basic Domainsare 45, whereas the Hundred Divisions are 100.
So,we expect that in the average, one Basic Domainmaps onto two Hundred Divisions with a smalldegree of variance with respect to the average.What we have obtained from the analysis of thenew WDH is the following: out of 45 BasicDomainso 4 domains map onto a Main Class (depth 1)o 18 domains are mapped at the HundredDivisions level (depth 2)o 6 domains are mapped at different DDC levels,with the majority of DDC codes at depth 2o 17 domains map onto subdivisions of depth 3and 4.As for the average number of DDC codescovered by each Basic Domain, the variance isquite high.
Certain Basic Domains cover a bignumber of codes from the Hundred Divisions.
Forinstance HISTORY, and ART cover 6 codes each.Instead, in  most cases, one Basic Domain coversonly one DDC code (e.g.
LAW and 340:Law).The evaluation of the granularity of the BasicDomains according to the proposed criterion canbe considered satisfactory even if the resultsdiverge somewhat from what expected in principle.To explain this partial divergence in thegranularity of domains, one should take intoconsideration that the DDC has been createdrelying heavily on the academic organization ofknowledge disciplines.
On the other side, in thepractical WDH reorganization process we tried tobalance somehow this discipline-orientedapproach, by taking into account also the socialrelevance of domains.
This has been done byrelying on the organization of Internet directoriesand on our personal intuitions.Such an approach led us to put at the Basic levelWDH labels corresponding to DDC codes withdepth higher than 2 (more specific than theHundreds Divisions).
See for instance thepositioning of RADIO+TV, FOOD, HEALTH, andENVIRONMENT at the Basic level, even if theycorrespond to DDC codes of level 3 and 4.Instead, ANIMALS and PLANTS were not Basic inthe previous version of WDH, but have beenpromoted to the Basic level in accordance with thegranularity level they have in the DDC.Other domain labels have been placed at a lowerlevel then expected with reference to the DDC.
Forinstance PHILOSOPHY, ART, RELIGION, andLITERATURE have been put at the Basic Level,even if they correspond to DDC codes belonging tothe Main Classes (depth 1).
On the other sideASTROLOGY, ARCHAEOLOGY,  BODY CARE, andVETERINARY which were Basic in the previousversion of the WDH, have been demoted at a lowerlevel in accordance with the granularity they havein the DDC.
Only in one case this process ofdemotion has led to the elimination of a sub-domain, that is TEXTILE.4 ConclusionsIn this paper we described the revision of theWORDNET DOMAINS Hierarchy (WDH), with theaim of providing it with a clear semantics, andevaluating the coverage and balancing of a subsetof the WDH, called Basic Domains.
This has beendone mostly by relying on the informationavailable in the Dewy Decimal Classification(DDC).
A semantics has been provided to theWDH labels by defining one or more pointers toDDC codes.
The coverage of the Basic Domainshas been evaluated by checking that each DDCcode is covered by at least one Basic Domain.Finally, balancing has been evaluated mostly bycomparing the granularity of the Basic Domainswith the granularity of a subset of the DDC calledthe Hundred Divisions.
Balancing is the aspect ofthe Basic Domains which diverges more clearlyfrom the DDC.
This is explained by the fact thatwe took in higher consideration the socialrelevance of domains.We think that the new version of the WDH isbetter suited to act as a useful language-independent resource in the fields of computationallexicography, corpus building, and various NLPapplications.5 AcknowledgementsThanks to Alfio Gliozzo for his useful commentsand suggestions about how to improve theWORDNET DOMAINS Hierarchy.ReferencesBALKANET http://www.ceid.upatras.gr/Balkanet/L.
Bentivogli, C. Girardi and E. Pianta.
2003.
TheMEANING Italian Corpus.
In Proceedings of theCorpus Linguistics 2003 Conference.
Lancaster,United Kingdom.C.
Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet.
An ElectronicLexical Database.
The MIT Press, Boston.B.
Magnini and G. Cavagli?.
2000.
IntegratingSubject Field Codes into WordNet.
InProceedings of LREC-2000.
Athens, Greece.B.
Magnini, C. Strapparava, G. Pezzulo and A.Gliozzo.
2002.
The Role of Domain Informationin Word Sense Disambiguation.
Journal ofNatural Language Engineering (Special Issue onevaluating Word Sense DisambiguationSystems), 9(1):359:373.J.S.
Mitchell, J. Beall, W.E.
Matthews and G.R.New (eds).
1996.
Dewey Decimal ClassificationEdition 21 (DDC 21).
Forest Press, Albany, NewYork.E.
Pianta, L. Bentivogli and C. Girardi.
2002.MultiWordNet: developing an alignedmultilingual database.
In Proceedings of theFirst Global WordNet Conference.
Mysore,India.G.
Rigau, B. Magnini, E. Agirre, P. Vossen and J.Carrol.
2002.
MEANING: a Roadmap toKnowledge Technologies.
In Proceedings of theCOLING-2002 workshop "A Roadmap forComputational Linguistics".
Taipei, Taiwan.H.
Schutze.
1998.
Automatic Word SenseDiscrimination.
Computational Linguistics,24(1):97-123.SIMPLE.
2000.
Linguistic Specifications.Deliverable D2.1, March 2000.P.
Vossen (ed).
1998.
Computers and theHumanities (Special Issue on EuroWordNet),32(2-3).D.E.
Walker and R.A. Amsler.
1986.
AnalyzingLanguage in Restricted Domain.
Sublanguagedescription and Processing.
Lawrence Earlbaum,Hillsdale NJ.Appendix : The first two levels of the WDH new version with the corresponding DDC codesTOP-LEVEL BASIC DOMAINS DDCHumanitiesHistory [920:990]Linguistics 410Literature [800, 400]Philosophy [100-(130, 150, 176)]Psychology 150Art [700-(710, 720, 745.5, 790-(791.43, 792, 793.3))]Paranormal 130Religion 200Free_Time  [790-(791.43, 792, 793.3)]Radio-Tv [791.44, 791.45]Play [793.4:795-794.6]Sport [794.6, 796:799]Applied_Science  600Agriculture [338.1, 630]Food [613.2, 613.3, 641, 642]Home [640-(641, 642, 645)]Architecture [645, 690, 710, 720]Computer_Science [004:006]Engineering 620Telecommunication [383, 384]Medicine [610-(611, 612, 613)]Pure_Science  500Astronomy  520Biology [570-577, 611, 612-612.6]Animals  590Plants 580Environment  577Chemistry  540Earth  [550, 560, 910-(910.4, 910.202)]Mathematics 510Physics  530Social_Science  [300.1:300.9]Anthropology [301:307, 395, 398]Health [613-(613.2, 613.3, 613.8, 613.9)]Military [355:359]Pedagogy 370Publishing 070Sociology [301:319-(305.8, 306.7), 360-(363.4, 368)]Artisanship [338.642, 745.5]Commerce [381, 382]Industry [338-(338.1, 338.642), 660, 670, 680]Transport [385:389]Economy [330-(334, 338), 368, 650]Administration [351:354]Law 340Politics 320Tourism [910.202, 910.4]Fashion [390-(392.6, 395, 398), 687]Sexuality [155.3, 176, 306.7, 363.4, 392.6, 612.6, 613.96]Factotum
