Mining MEDLINE: Postulating a Beneficial Role for Curcumin Longa inRetinal DiseasesPadmini SrinivasanSchool of Library& Information ScienceThe University of IowaIowa City, IA 52242padmini-srinivasan@uiowa.eduBisharah LibbusNational Library of MedicineBethesda, MD 20852libbus@nlm.nih.govAditya Kumar SehgalComputer ScienceThe University of IowaIowa City, IA 52242sehgal@cs.uiowa.eduAbstractText mining tools are designed to assist userswith the important step of hypothesis genera-tion.
In this research we apply an open discov-ery process to the problem of identifying noveldisease or problem contexts in which a sub-stance may have therapeutic potential.
We il-lustrate this discovery process by executing ouropen discovery algorithm with turmeric (Cur-cumin Longa) as the substance being investi-gated.
The top ranking entry suggested by thealgorithm is retinal diseases.
Further analysisof the literature yields evidence supporting thesuggested connection between curcumin andretinal diseases.
In particular, curcumin influ-ences the activation of genes such as COX-2,TNF-alpha, JNK, ERK and NF-kappaB.
Thesegenes are in turn involved in retinal diseasessuch as diabetic retinopathies, ocular inflam-mation and glaucoma.
Moreover, the evidencesuggests that curcumin may have a beneficialand therapeutic role in the context of these dis-eases.1 IntroductionConsider a bioscientist who is studying a particular dis-ease.
Assume that she is already well familiar withthe pathophysiology and accepted therapeutic options fortreating this condition and wishes to determine if thereare other, yet unrecognized, substances that may havetherapeutic potential.
She begins by searching for doc-uments on the disease mechanism(s) and related disor-ders.
Very soon she finds herself immersed in a morassof pathways and possible directions that need to be fur-ther explored.
It will come as no surprise if even our mostdetermined user quickly becomes overwhelmed and dis-couraged.
The challenge of searching for a novel thera-peutic substance is at best like looking for the proverbial?needle in a haystack?.
However, in reality the challengeis greater since there is no assurance that there indeed isa needle in the haystack.
Consequently, the goal of textmining (also known as literature mining) systems and al-gorithms is to assist users find such needles, if these existat all in the literature ?haystacks?
(Hearst 1999).In general, as shown in Figure 1, a user may start withany type of topic (A), be it a disease, a pharmacologicalsubstance, or a specific gene.
As he navigates the lit-erature and follows connections through appropriate in-termediate topics (B1, B2 etc.
), the user hopes to reachterminal topics (C1, C2 etc.)
that are both relevant andnovel, in the sense of shedding new information on topic(A).
This text mining approach commonly referred to as?open?
discovery was pioneered by Swanson in the mid80s.
A classic example discovery is one where start-ing with Raynaud?s disease (A) Swanson identified fishoils (C) as a substance that may have therapeutic po-tential (Swanson, 1986).
Intermediate connections (B)such as ?blood viscosity?, ?platelet aggregation?
were ob-served.
Swanson also proposed a variation called ?closed?discovery wherein starting with a pair of topics (A andC) one explores possible connections (B links) betweenthem that are not yet recognized.
In collaboration withSmalheiser, Swanson used his open and closed discov-ery methods on MEDLINE and proposed a number ofhypotheses (eg.
Swanson, 1990; Smalheiser & Swan-son1996a; Smalheiser & Swanson1996b; Smalheiser &Swanson1998).
The hypotheses they proposed were sub-sequently corroborated in clinical studies.The text mining framework established by Swansonand Smalheiser has attracted the attention of several re-searchers (Gordon and Lindsay, 1996; Lindsay and Gor-don, 1999; Weeber et al, 2001) besides us (Srinivasan,2004).
A key goal in these follow-up efforts has been toreduce the amount of manual effort and intervention re-quired during the discovery process.
In previous workAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Linking Biological Literature, Ontologies and Databases, pp.
33-40.HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop: Biolink 2004,Figure 1: Open Discovery: The General Modelusing algorithms for MEDLINE which we developed, wereplicated the eight open and closed discoveries made bySwanson and Smalheiser.
In comparison with other repli-cation studies these algorithms were the most effective(Srinivasan, 2004).
They also require the least amount ofmanual input and analyses.
For example, in open discov-ery, our methods expect the user to specify only the typeof B terms of interest.
Following this our algorithm se-lects B terms automatically.
In contrast the other methodsrely more on user input for selecting B terms.
Our cur-rent research demonstrates that our open discovery algo-rithm can be used to generate new hypotheses for diseasetreatment that could be tested.
In particular, we applyour open discovery procedure to explore the therapeuticpotential of curcumin/turmeric (Curcumin Longa) a di-etary substance commonly used in Asia.
We show thatour automatic discovery algorithm identifies retinal dis-eases as the novel context for research on curcumin.
Wereview genetic and biochemical evidence to indicate thatcurcumin may be beneficial for treating retinal diseases.We first describe our open discovery algorithm.
Nextwe show its application with curcumin as the startingpoint (topic A).
We then present an analysis of the cur-cumin - retinal diseases connection.
The next section ison related research.
The final section presents our con-clusions and plans for the next phase of this research.2 Open DiscoveryOur open discovery approach is founded on the notion oftopic profiles.
A topic is any subject of interest such astreatment of hypertension or ATM gene.
A profile is es-sentially a representation of a topic that is derived fromthe text collection being mined.
For MEDLINE our topicprofiles are vectors of weighted Medical Subject Head-ings (MeSH).
These terms belong to a controlled vocab-ulary and are manually assigned to each MEDLINE doc-ument by trained indexers.
Given a topic of interest, ouralgorithm first retrieves relevant MEDLINE documents.MeSH terms are then extracted from these documents andtheir weights are calculated.
These weighted terms formthe profile vector for the topic.
We discuss the method forcalculating weights shortly.We also exploit the fact that MeSH terms have beenclassified using 134 UMLS (Unified Medical LanguageSystem)1 semantic types as for example Cell Function,Sign or Symptom.
Each MeSH term is assigned oneor more semantic types.
For example, interferon typeII falls within both Immunologic Factor and Pharmaco-logic Substance semantic types.
More generally, seman-tic types represent ?categories?
that have been used toclassify the MeSH metadata.
Semantic types are usefulbecause depending on the nature of the discovery goalswe may adopt a particular view, i.e., we may restrict thediscovery process to consider only MeSH terms that be-long to certain semantic types.
In these cases the topicprofiles are restricted to MeSH terms belonging to seman-tic types specified by the view.We calculate term weights for the MeSH terms.
Termweights are a slight modification of the commonly usedTF*IDF scores.
Since a MeSH term typically occurs oncein a MEDLINE record, here TFi (term frequency) equalsthe number of documents in which the MeSH term ti oc-curs within the retrieved document set.
IDFi (inversedocument frequency) is log(N/TFi).
N is the numberof documents retrieved for the topic.
Weights are normal-ized as shown below for term ti.
This vector of weightedMeSH terms forms the topic profile.weight(ti) = vi/?v21 + v22 + ... + v2r , (1)where vi = TFi ?
log(N/TFi) and there are r terms inthe profile.Algorithm: Figure 2 outlines our open discoveryalgorithm which follows the framework shown in Fig-ure 1.
We begin by building the A topic profile restrictedto ST-B semantic types.
Note that all MEDLINEsearches are conducted automatically via the PubMedinterface2.
We then automatically select M MeSHterms for each ST-B semantic type from this A profileand call these the B terms.
Next profiles are built foreach of these B terms limited to another selected setof semantic types ST-C.
These B profiles are analysedin combination to select an initial pool of candidateC terms.
These candidate terms are then checked fornovelty in the context of the starting A topic.
When thealgorithm terminates the user is provided a final list ofranked, novel C terms.
The higher the rank the greater1http://umlsks.nlm.nih.gov2http://www.nlm.nih.govthe estimated confidence in the potential connection withthe A topic.At this point the rest of the process depends almost en-tirely on the user.
(This is also the case in other imple-mentations of the open discovery process (eg.
Lindsay &Gordon 1999; Weeber et al, 2001)).
It is up to the user toselect A - C pairs of interest and explore the literature forsupporting evidence.The role of ST-B and ST-C in the algorithm is to applyreasonable constraints to the problem and shape the pathof the discovery process.
Similarly, parameter M maybe used to focus the discovery process.
The higher thisnumber the bigger the scope through which one looks fornovel C topics.
Obviously it takes experience to comeup with reasonable values for these parameters.
Butwe already see some patterns emerge in the MEDLINEmining literature.
For example when looking for sub-stances likely to influence a disease several researchershave used functional semantic types such as Cell Func-tion and Molecular Dysfunction for selecting intermedi-ate pathways (eg.
Weeber et al, 2001).
Experimentsvarying these semantic types have been described in ourprevious work (Srinivasan, 2004).
Unique aspects of ouralgorithm in comparison to open discovery methods ex-plored by others, include for example, the fact that ourweighting scheme identifies interesting and relevant Bterms at high ranks.
Also, C terms are assessed by com-bining the evidence on their connection to the differentintermediate B terms.3 Open Discovery with TurmericOur interest in curcumin was sparked by the fact that thisspice is widely used in Asia and is highly regarded for itscurative and analgesic properties.
These include the treat-ment of burns, stomach ulcers and ailments, and for var-ious skin diseases.
Curcumin is also used as an antisep-tic, in alleviating symptoms of the common cold as wellas a depilatory.
A number of MEDLINE records havereported on the anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory prop-erties of curcumin (12680238, 12678737, 126760443).Our open discovery goal is aimed at determining whetherthere are novel disease contexts in which curcumin couldprove beneficial, and to propose evidence-based hypothe-ses that can be experimentally verified.We executed our open discovery algorithm with cur-cumin as the starting topic (A).
The specific PubMedsearch conducted was turmeric OR curcumin OR cur-cuma (done on November 15, 2003).
A total of 1,175PubMed documents were retrieved.
As Figure 3 showsthe majority of these publications (1,043, 89%) are rela-3Numbers within parantheses such as these refer to PubMedrecord ids.
The reader may enter these directly into the PubMedinterface to retrieve the corresponding records.Input from user: (1) an A topic of interest, (2) aset of UMLS semantic types (ST-B) for selectingB terms and a set (ST-C) for selecting C terms.Parameter: M?
Step 1: Conduct an appropriate PubMedsearch for topic A, and build its MeSH pro-file limited to the semantic types in ST-B.Call this profile AP.?
Step 2: For each semantic type in ST-B, se-lect theM top ranking MeSH terms from AP.Remove duplicate terms if any.
These aredesignated the B terms (B1, B2, B3, etc.).?
Step 3: Conduct an independent PubMedsearch for each B term and build its pro-file limited to the semantic types ST-C. Callthese profiles BP1, BP2, BP3, etc.?
Step 4: Compute a final combined profilewhere the combined weight of a MeSH termis the sum of its weights in BP1, BP2, BP3,etc.
Call this initial profile CP.?
Step 5: For each term t in CP if a MEDLINEsearch on topic A AND t returns non zeroresults, eliminate t from CP.Output: For each semantic type in ST-C, output theMeSH terms in CP ranked by combined weight.These are the C terms organized by semantic typeand ranked by estimated potential.Figure 2: Open Discovery Algorithm: Outline of Steps.Figure 3: Temporal Distribution of Curcumin Documentstively recent, being published in 1990 or later.
This in-dicates a surge in scientific interest in the health effectsof this spice, which has long been valued in Asia for itsmedicinal properties.We limited ST-B to the three semantic types Gene orGenome; Enzyme; and Amino Acid, Peptide or Protein.We restricted ST-C to Disease or Syndrome and Neo-plastic Process4 and set M (the parameter specifying thenumber of B terms to select) to 10.
These semantic typesare appropriate since we are looking for biochemical andgenetic connections between turmeric and novel diseases.Table 1 shows the top 10 selected MeSH terms fromeach ST-B type (step 2).
We can observe from the tablethat some of the terms appear in more than one semantictype.
(This is possible since a term may be assigned tomore than 1 semantic type in the UMLS).
However, weremove duplicates in step 2.
Also, some terms are veryspecific such as Protein Kinase C while others are broadrepresenting families such as DNA-Binding Proteins andIsoenzymes.
At present we do not distinguish between Bterms using specificity.
Our plan is to examine this aspectin future research.The B terms listed in Table 1 are the top ten terms thatwere retrieved from a search of the literature for the se-mantic types Genes or Genomes, Enzymes, and AminoAcid, Peptide or Proteins.
The biochemical effects of cur-cumin become apparent upon conducting a search of theliterature for curcumin and any of these terms.
Curcumin,for example, has a strong down-regulatory effect on c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) (14627502, 12859962,11370761, 12097302) resulting in the arrest of cell pro-liferation (14627502) in prostate tumor cells (12853969)and induction of apoptosis (12859962).
Curcumin in-hibits NF-kappaB (12714587) leading to the suppres-sion of cell proliferation and the induction of apoptosis4Neoplastic Process includes MeSH terms referring to can-cers.Semantic TypeIntermediate B MeSH Terms G E AGenes, jun 1Genes, fos 2Genes, APC 3Genes, Reporter 4Genes, Dominant 5Genes, ras 6Genes, rel 7Genes, bcl-2 8Nucleolus Organizer Region 9Genes, myc 10MAPK 1 3Glutathione Transferase 2 5Protein Kinase C 3 9Prostaglandin-EndoperoxideSynthase 4 10Isoenzymes 5Protein-Tyrosine Kinase 6Caspases 7Nitric-Oxide Synthase 8Ornithine Decarboxylase 9MAP Kinase Signaling System 10NF-kappa B 1Transcription Factor AP-1 2Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-jun 4Tumor Necrosis Factor 6Glutathione 7DNA-Binding Proteins 8Table 1: Intermediate B Terms.
G: Gene or Genome, E:Enzyme, AAPP: Amino Acid, Peptide or Protein.
Num-bers indicate ranks.Terminal C MeSH Terms RankRetina 1Spinal cord 2Testes 3Thyroid Neoplasms 4Ischemic Attack Transient 5Table 2: Top Five Novel C Terms.in multiple myeloma (12393461) and ovary cancer cells(12520734).
TGF-beta1 induced IL-6 which has been im-plicated in the malignant progression of prostate cancerswas severely impeded by curcumin through inhibition ofc-Jun (matches with Genes, jun in the table) JNK (an in-stance of MAPK in the table) or AP-1 (12853969).The curcumin open discovery process terminated witha ranked list of diseases.
Table 2 shows the top 5 entries5.One observation made at this point was that the type ofautomated search conducted in step 5 of the algorithm tocheck for novelty is insufficient.
At present, the searchinvolves only the particular MeSH term intersected withthe A topic.
We do not yet automatically consider syn-onyms of the MeSH term.
For example for the last entryin the table, although Ischemic Attack Transient AND(turmeric OR curcumin OR curcuma) retrieved 0 docu-ments, the search Ischemia AND (turmeric OR curcuminOR curcuma) retrieves 17 documents.
Hence this entry isunlikely to be immediately interesting to the user.
How-ever, the top two entries did not retrieve any documenteven after searching with different synonyms.
Testes isalso unlikely to be interesting since a curcumin search in-tersected with sperm retrieved many documents.
Consid-ering retrieval set size alone is insufficient.
For instance,curcumin intersected with thyroid retrieved 5 documents.However, these appear to be peripheral to curcumin?s ef-fect on thyroid neoplasms focusing more on aspects suchas hypothyroidism and toxicity.
Automating query ex-pansion using synonyms will be the subject of further re-search.At this point the user may select entries and peruse theappropriate literature further to (a) determine the natureof the relationship between curcumin and the diseases (asthe substance under study could be beneficial or harmful)and (b) assess the quality of the background knowledgethat may be used to guide further study of curcumin andthe disease.
This manual phase may be guided by thespecific B term-based pathways connecting the selected5Although the main semantic type for a term such as SpinalCord is Body Part, Organ, or Organ Component, in the UMLSSpinal Cord is listed for at least one vocabulary as a synonymfor Spinal Cord Diseases.
It is thus also assigned the semantictype of Disease or Syndrome.
Similar observations hold forterms Retina and TestesMeSH TermGenes, fosGenes, ReporterGenes, DominantMAPKGlutathione TransferaseProtein Kinase CIsoenzymesProtein-Tyrosine KinaseCaspasesNitric-Oxide SynthaseOrnithine DecarboxylaseProto-Oncogene Proteins c-junTumor Necrosis FactorGlutathioneDNA-Binding ProteinsTable 3: B Terms Connecting Turmeric and Retina.disease with curcumin.
Table 3 lists the B terms thatwere automatically identified as connecting curcumin and?Retina?.In the next section we present such an analysis for?Retina?.
That is, we (the second author) examine theliterature to determine if retinal diseases may be a goodcontext in which a bioscientist may study curcumin.
Ouranalysis indicates that indeed there is good evidence sup-porting the hypothesis of a beneficial role for turmeric inthe context of diabetic retinopathies, ocular inflammationand glaucoma.
Analysis of the other highly-ranked dis-eases is left for future work.4 Turmeric - Retinal Diseases ConnectionThe procedure followed up to this point is ?term-centric?.That is, we automatically identify statistically interestingB terms and then generate a ranked list of C terms.
Wenow present further analysis on the connection betweenretinal diseases and curcumin.
In some cases reading thetitle and abstracts of select records provided sufficient in-formation.
In addition the full text of the document wasavailable.
Our strategy was to examine publications forbiochemical or molecular biology mechanisms.
In par-ticular, we were interested in ascertaining whether any ofthe genes noted earlier were also involved in the patho-physiology of these retinal disorders.
We focused on thegenes as the critical links that connect the agent curcuminto the disorders.Analysis: The user?s goal is to identify biochemicalpathways potentially connecting retinal diseases and cur-cumin.
Retinal diseases could result from complicationsdue to diabetes, or of infection and inflammation of theretina.Diabetic retinopathy is a leading cause of blindness.An early sign of the disease is the adhesion of leukocytesto the vessels of the retina, endothelial cell injury, and thebreakdown of the blood-retina barrier (12000720).
Evenacute intensive insulin therapy constitutes an additionalrisk factor for diabetic retinopathy, due to insulin-inducedhypoxia and an associated acceleration in the blood-retinabarrier breakdown (11901189).
Glaucoma is the secondmost common cause of blindness in the world (8695555)and is caused by mutations in a number of genes on chro-mosomes 1 and 10 as well as in other loci on chromo-somes 2, 3, 8, and 7.
While several diseases have oneor a few genetic loci that control disease progression andfamilial transmission, it is often the case that a variety ofgenes may be involved in their pathophysiology.
Follow-ing is a brief survey of some of the genes that may beinvolved in the process of tissue injury or inflammationand regulation of cell division.
Control of the immuneprocess and of the inflammatory response is important incombating infection and autoimmune diseases.
Regula-tion of cell division, particularly programmed cell death,is critical in diverse diseases such as cancer and tissue re-generation, e.g.
retinal injury and diseases.
Regulationof the activity of such genes could provide strategies fortherapeutic intervention using curcumin.In diabetes and during inflammation, periods of hy-poxia, i.e.
low oxygen concentration, occur in varioustissues and organs.
At such times an early cellular re-sponse results in the elevated expression of interleukin-1beta (IL-1 beta) and cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) genes(11527948, 14507857, 11821258) which in turn stim-ulate new blood vessel growth leading to retinopathy(12821538, 12601017).
Similarly, the expression ofCOX-2 was associated with the development of glau-coma (9441697).
Treatment with COX-2 inhibitors sup-pressed blood-retinal barrier breakdown and had an an-tiangiogenic effect, i.e.
they prevented the growth of newblood vessels and thus had a protective effect on the retina(12821538, 11980873).Another gene, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), was elevated during the early stages of diabeticretinopathy and inflammation (11821258, 12706995,11161842).
Anti-TNF-alpha treatment reduced leukocyteadhesion to blood vessels of the eye and vascular leakage(12714660) indicating a potential therapeutic effect forsuch a treatment to reduce ocular inflammation.
Activa-tion of TNF-alpha and other genes may also lead to thepathophysiology of glaucoma (10975909, 10815159).The family of mitogen-activated protein kinases(MAPK) is another group of genes that has an importantrole in retinal disease.
These include extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK), c-Jun amino(N)-terminal ki-nase (JNK), and p38.
One of these, ERK, was inducedin glaucoma (12824248).
Often inflammatory responsesinclude the induction of apoptosis, or programmed celldeath.
The involvement of JNK in inducing apop-tosis was demonstrated in prostate cancer (12859962,12663665) and retinal cells (12270637).
There is also alink to TNF-alpha (discussed above) which was shown toactivate phosphorylation of ERKs, p38, and JNK MAPKin human chondrocytes (12878172).IL-1beta activation, induced by the presence of reti-nal holes, a key feature of diabetic retinopathy, is alsoreported to result in the activation of a number of theMAPK genes ERK, JNK, and p38 (12824248).
Theseconditions in turn exacerbate the disease process in thatthey result in proliferative and migratory cells accumu-lating in the wounded retina (12500176).
Inhibitors ofMAPK and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3) inhibitedretinal pigment epithelial cell proliferation (12782163).The breakdown in the blood-retina barrier is also sup-pressed by inhibitors of p38 MAPK and PI3 (11901189).Changes in the levels of the gene NF-kappaB is anearly cellular response to inflammation.
Activation ofTNF-alpha (discussed above) is followed by increasedtranscription of NF-kappaB which in turn stimulatesERK, p38, and JNK MAPK (12878172).
Also activa-tion of NF-kappaB subsequently stimulated COX-2 andmatrix metalloproteinase-9 expression (12807725).Curcumin was shown to be effective in inhibitingcell proliferation of tumorigenic and non-tumorigenicbreast cancer cells (12527329) and other tumor cells(12680238).
As described previously the gene COX-2 is involved in early inflammatory diabetic retinopathy(11821258).
Curcumin was able to suppress COX-2 ina dose-related manner (12844482) and neutralized theeffect of IL-1 beta, possibly through its effect on p38and COX-2 and JNK (12957788).
Curcumin is also aknown inhibitor of JNK (12957788,12854631,12582006,12130649, 12105223, 9674701) and a suppresser ofNF-kappaB activation (11753638, 11506818, 12878172,12825130).
For example, it suppressed the induction ofNF-kappaB and its dependent genes by cigarette smoke(12807725), in alcoholic liver disease (12388178) and incultured endothelial cells (12368225).Having shown that these genes, in particular, IL-1beta,COX-2, TNF-alpha, JNK, ERK, NF-kappaB, etc., areinvolved in retinopathy and in regulating cell prolifer-ation and leukocyte attachment and the breakdown ofthe blood-retina barrier, and having established that cur-cumin is capable of inhibiting the activity of these geneswe hypothesize that curcumin may have therapeutic valuein preventing or ameliorating a number of retinal patholo-gies.Our approach has focused on specific genes, in partic-ular to provide clues regarding the relevant biochemicalpathways.
In some cases the evidence is gathered in thecontext of other diseases such as alcoholic liver diseasewith the idea that similar evidence may be found for reti-nal diseases.
In summary it seems likely that curcumin,taken in the diet or applied topically, could prove benefi-cial in cases of diabetic retinopathies, retinal injury, ocu-lar inflammation and glaucoma.5 Related ResearchText mining, i.e., uncovering information that may leadto hypotheses, has attracted the attention of many re-searchers (eg.
Andrade & Valencia, 1998; Gordon& Lindsay, 1996; Masys et al, 2001; Smalheiser &Swanson, 1996a; Smalheiser & Swanson, 1996b; Srini-vasan & Wedemeyer 2003; Srinivasan, 2004; Swanson,1986; Swanson, 1988; Swanson et al, 2001; Weeber,2000).
Examples of recent text mining applications in-clude automatically identifying viruses that may be usedas bioweapons (Swanson et al, 2001), proposing ther-apeutic uses for thalidomide (Weeber, 2003) and find-ing functional connections between genes (Chaussabel &Sher, 2002; Shatkay et al, 2000).A major emphasis in text mining research has beento directly exploit co-occurrence relationships in MED-LINE.
For example, Jenssen et al, (2001) generate aco-occurrence based gene network called PubGene fromMEDLINE for 13, 712 named human genes.
Each ofPubGene?s 139,756 links is weighted by the numberof times the genes co-occur.
Wilkinson and Huber-man6 identify communities of genes.
Starting with aco-occurrence based gene network for a particular dis-ease domain, communities are identified by repeatedly re-moving edges of highest betweeness (number of shortestpaths traversing the edge).
Applying this to the domainof colorectal cancer, they are able to identify interestinghypotheses linking genes that were for example, in thesame community but had no edge between them.Our research is based on the open discovery frameworkproposed by Swanson.
As indicated before, Swansonand Smalheiser made several discoveries using their openand closed discovery methods (Swanson, 1986; Swan-son, 1988; Swanson et al, 2001; Smalheiser & Swan-son, 1996a; Smalheiser & Swanson, 1996b), that werelater validated by bioscientists.
These discoveries to-gether offer a testbed of examples that are being usedby other researchers to develop their own discovery al-gorithms (Gordon & Lindsay, 1996; Lindsay & Gordon,1999; Srinivasan, 2004; Weeber et al, 2001).One characteristic that may be useful in distinguish-ing between text mining efforts is the extent to whichthey are problem or sub domain specific.
For example,PubGene is directly targeted towards bioinformatics re-6Wilkinson, D., & Huberman, B.
A. Amethod for finding communities of related genes.http://citeseer.nj.nec.com/546592.html.searchers.
In contrast, implementations such as ours thatderive from the open discovery framework are not prob-lem specific.
These may be used for a variety of goals, asfor example by geneticists involved in understanding theresults of microarray experiments and by epidemiologistssearching for links between viruses and specific popula-tions.
We believe that the next generation of text miningsystems will be judged not only by their effectiveness butalso by their flexibility in application.6 ConclusionsWe applied our implementation of Swanson?s open dis-covery algorithm to the problem of identifying novel dis-ease or problem contexts in which substances might havea therapeutic role.
We used our methods to investigate thepotential of turmeric or Curcumin Longa.
Our analysisidentifies a ranked list of problems for which treatmentwith curcumin may be beneficial with the top ranked en-try pointing to retinal diseases.
Guided by our algorithm,further analysis of the literature by our expert user (a ge-neticist) yielded good evidence in support of the hypoth-esis that curcumin, taken in the diet or applied topically,could prove beneficial in cases of diabetic retinopathies,ocular inflammation and glaucoma.In future work we will analyze the other suggestionsmade by our open discovery methods.
For example, thesecond suggestion is problems related to the spinal cord.The analysis will again focus on genetic mechanisms thatcould potentially connect curcumin with the problems.We will also explore methods to automate query expan-sion for the search in step 5 of the algorithm.
One lim-itation of the discovery process concerns the evidencegathering phase when analyzing individual C terms.
Thisprocess is manual and involves significant investment oftime and intellect toward sifting through the literature andcollecting evidence relevant to the hypothesized connec-tions.
In the next phase of our work we plan to studymethods to assist in this phase.AcknowledgmentsThis research was partly accomplished while the first au-thor was a visiting faculty scholar at the National Libraryof Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland.
She thanks the Univer-sity of Iowa for the Faculty Scholar Award and NLM fortheir hospitality.
This work was also funded in part byNSF grant no.
IIS-0312356 awarded to the first author.The authors thank the anonymous reviewers for their in-sightful comments.ReferencesAndrade A, & Valencia A.
1998.
Automatic extractionof keywords from scientific text: application to theknowledge domain of protein families.
Bioinformatics,14(7):600-607.Chaussabel D. & Sher A.
(2002).
Mining microarray ex-pression data by literature profiling.
Genome Biology,3(10):research0055.1-0055.16.Gordon M.D & Lindsay R.K. 1996.
Toward discoverysupport systems: A replication, re-examination, andextension of Swanson?s work on literature-based dis-covery of a connection between Raynaud?s and fish oil.Journal of the American Society for Information Sci-ence, 47:116-128.Hearst M. Untangling text data mining.
(1999).
In: Pro-ceedings of ACL, Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics (invited talk), Univer-sity of Maryland, Maryland, June 20-26, 1999.Jenssen, T-K., Laegreid, A., Komorowski, J., & Hovig,E.
2001.
A literature network of human genes for high-throughput analysis of gene expression.
Nature Genet-ics, 28:21-28.Lindsay, R.K, & Gordon, M.D.
(1999).
Literature-baseddiscovery by lexical statistics.
Journal of the AmericanSociety for Information Science, 50(7):574-587.Masys, D.R., Welsh, J.B,, Fink, J.L., Gribskov, M., Kla-cansky, I., & Corbeil, J.
2001.
Use of keyword hier-archies to interpret gene expression patterns.
Bioinfor-matics, 17(4):319-326.Shatkay, H., Edwards, S., Wilbur, W.J., & Boguski, M.2000.
Genes, Themes and Microarrays.
Using infor-mation retrieval for large-scale gene analysis.
In: Pro-ceedings of Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology,La Jolla, California, 317-328.Smalheiser, N.R., & Swanson, D.R.
1996a.
Indomethacinand Alzheimer?s disease.
Neurology, 46:583.Smalheiser, N.R., & Swanson, D.R.
1996b.
Linking es-trogen to Alzheimer?s disease: An informatics ap-proach.
Neurology, 47, 809-810.Smalheiser, N.R, & Swanson, D.R.
1998.
Calcium-independent phospholipase A2 and Schizophrenia.Archives of General Psychiatry.
55(8), 752-753.Srinivasan, P. To appear 2004.
Text Mining: GeneratingHypotheses from MEDLINE.
Journal of the AmericanSociety for Information Science.Srinivasan, P., & Wedemeyer, M. (2003).
Mining Con-cept Profiles with the Vector Model or Where on Earthare Diseases being Studied?
In: Proceedings of TextMining Workshop.
Third SIAM International Confer-ence on Data Mining.
San Francisco, CA.Swanson, DR. 1986.
Fish oil, Raynaud?s syndrome, andundiscovered public knowledge.
Perspectives in Biol-ogy and Medicine, 30: 7-18.Swanson, D.R.
1988.
Migraine and Magnesium: Elevenneglected connections.
Perspectives in Biology andMedicine, 31:526-557.Swanson, D.R.
(1990).
Somatomedin C and Arginine:Implicit connections between mutually isolated lit-eratures.
Perspectives in Biology and Medicine, 33(2):157-179.Swanson, D.R., Smalheiser, N.R., & Bookstein, A.(2001).
Information discovery from complementaryliteratures: categorizing viruses as potential weapons.Journal of the American Society for Information Sci-ence, 52(10): 797-812.Weeber, M., Klein, H., Aronson, A.R., Mork, J.G., Jong-van den Berg, L., & Vos, R. (2000).
Text-based dis-covery in biomedicine: the architecture of the DAD-system.
In: Proceedings of AMIA, the Annual Con-ference of the American Medical Informatics Associa-tion, November 4-8, 2000, 903-907.Weeber, M., Klein, H., Berg, L., & Vos, R. 2001.Using concepts in literature-based discovery: Sim-ulating Swanson?s Raynaud-Fish Oil and Migraine-Magnesium discoveries.
Journal of the American So-ciety for Information Science, 52(7):548-557.Weeber, M., Vos, R., Klein, H., de Jong-Van den Berg,L.T.W., Aronson, A & Molema, G. 2003.
Generatinghypotheses by discovering implicit associations in theliterature: A case report for new potential therapeuticuses for Thalidomide.
Journal of the American Medi-cal Informatics Association, 10(3): 252-259.
