Finite-State Morphological Analysis of PersianKarine MegerdoomianInxight Software, Inc.500 Macara AvenueSunnyvale, CA 94085, USAkarinem@inxight.comUniversity of California, San DiegoLinguistics Department9500 Gilman Drive, #0108La Jolla, CA 92093, USAkarinem@ling.ucsd.eduAbstractThis paper describes a two-levelmorphological analyzer for Persian using asystem based on the Xerox finite state tools.Persian language presents certain challenges tocomputational analysis: There is a complexverbal conjugation paradigm which includeslong-distance morphological dependencies;phonological alternations apply at morphemeboundaries; word and noun phrase boundariesare difficult to define since morphemes maybe detached from their stems and distinctwords can appear without an interveningspace.
In this work, we develop theseproblems and provide solutions in a finite-state morphology system.1 IntroductionThis paper describes the design of a two-levelmorphological analyzer for Persian developed atInxight Software, based on Xerox finite-statetechnology (Beesley and Karttunen, 2001), byfocusing on some of the issues that arise in acomputational analysis of the language.Persian morphology raises some interestingissues for a computational analysis.
One of themain challenges of Persian resides in thetokenization of the input text, since wordboundaries are not always respected in written text.Hence, morphemes may appear detached fromtheir stems while distinct tokens may be writtenwithout an intervening space.
Furthermore, the useof the Arabic script and the fact that short vowelsare not written and capitalization is not used createambiguities that impede computational analysis oftext.
Persian includes complex tokens whereby twodistinct part of speech items may be joined; theseattaching elements (e.g., prepositions, pronominalclitics or verbs) should be treated as inflectionalmorphemes in the morphological analyzer.
Persiandoes not have the problems that have beenobserved in Semitic languages such as thetemplate-based morphology of Arabic, and is ingeneral more concatenative.
However, the verbalconjugation consists of a complex paradigm, whichincludes long-distance dependencies that may beproblematic for a linear approach depending solelyon surface forms.
Finally, the phoneticrepresentation of Persian nominals directly affectsthe phonological alternations applying atmorpheme boundaries; however, the orthographicrealization of certain words may not reflect theirphonetics and require special manipulations toeliminate the ambiguities.Although there have been some significantstudies in the area of parsing and syntactic analysisfor Persian, very little work has been done oncomputational morphology in this language.
In thispaper, we elaborate on some of the challengespresented by a morphological analysis of Persianand discuss the solutions provided with a two-levelfinite-state formalism.2 System DescriptionThe Persian system is developed using XeroxFinite-State Technology.
The lexicons andmorphological rules are written in the format oflexc, which is the lexicon compiler (Karttunen andBeesley, 1992).
The lexicon and grammar arecompiled into a finite-state transducer (fst) wherethe lower side consists of the input string and theupper side provides the baseform of the word withassociated morphosyntactic features.
In thissystem, the fsts for each part of speech categoryare created separately and then composed.Similarly, phonological rules are composed on therelevant fst, thus performing the required phoneticand phonological alternations on the word forms.The composition of all the part of speechtransducers with the rules results in the final lexicaltransducer used for morphological analysis.
Sinceall intermediate levels disappear during acomposition, the final transducer consists of asingle two-level fst with surface strings in thebottom and the morphological output on the top.Consider the simple lexc example below.
Thislexc consists of three small LEXICONs, beginningwith the one named Root, which marks the start ofthe network.
The lexicon class named Rootincludes three entries and each entry consists of aform and a continuation class.LEXICON Rootdog Noun ;cat Noun ;laugh Verb ;LEXICON Noun+Plural:s # ;+Singular:0 # ;LEXICON Verb+Present:s # ;+Past:ed # ;+Gerund:ing # ;# ; !empty stringThe forms, such as ?dog?, are interpreted by thelexc as a regular expression as in {d o g}.Continuation classes are used to account for word-formation by capturing morphotactic rules.
In theexample under consideration, the string ?dog?
isfollowed by the continuation class Noun.
As theNoun lexicon shows, the rule allows ?dog?
to befollowed either by the morpheme ?s?
or by a nullmorpheme represented as ?0?.
The Nouncontinuation class maps the lower string ?s?
to the+Plural tag on the upper side of the two-leveltransducer.
Similarly, the Verb continuation classallows the concatenation of the verbal stem ?laugh?with the various inflectional morphemes.The Persian morphological analyzer at Inxightcurrently consists of about 55,000 stem forms,including multiword tokens, and a system of rulesthat identify the baseform of each token.
Examplesof the output of the morphological analyzer areshown below where the left hand side representsthe lower input string and the right hand side is theupper side output1:???????
?travelers?ms?fryn ?
ms?fr+Noun+Pl???
?he/she left?rft ?
rftn+Verb+Ind+Pret+3P+Sg??????
?he/she is a lawyer?vkylst?vkyl+Noun>bvdn+Verb+Ind+Pres+3P+SgThe rules are written as regular expressions andare represented as continuation paths within thelexc grammar.
The morphological analyzer covers1 Unless otherwise specified, the Persian examplesare direct transliterations of the Persian script and do notinclude short vowels, since that would requiredisambiguation of word senses and is beyond the scopeof the current application.
For issues in automaticdiacritization of Arabic script-based tests see (Vergyriand Kirchhoff, 2004) in this volume.all main features of the Persian language with fullverbal conjugation and nonverbal inflection,including irregular morphology.
In addition, abouttwenty phonological rules are used to capture thevarious surface word forms and alternations thatoccur in the language.
Common Proper Nouns arealso recognized and tagged.3 Challenges of the Persian SystemThis section outlines some of the main issuesthat arise in a computational analysis of Persiantext and presents the approach adopted in thecurrent finite-state system.
Comparisons are madewith past work on Persian morphological analyzerswhen relevant.Persian is an affixal system consisting mainly ofsuffixes and a number of prefixes appearing instrict morphotactic order.
The nonverbal paradigmconsists of a relatively small number of affixesmarking number, indefiniteness or comparatives,but the language has a complete verbal inflectionalsystem, which can be obtained by the variouscombinations of prefixes, stems, person andnumber inflections and auxiliaries.3.1 Nonverbal MorphologyThe Arabic script used in Persian distinguishesbetween the attached and unattached (or final)forms of the characters.
Thus, letters in a word areoften connected to each other, whereas all but sixcharacters have a final form if they appear at theend of a word or token.
Thus, most characters havea different form depending on their position withinthe word and the final forms can therefore be usedto mark word boundaries.
But as we will see in thissection, these boundaries are not withoutambiguity.Detached inflectional morphemes.
ThePersian writing system allows certain morphemesto appear either as bound to the host or as freeaffixes ?
free affixes could be separated by a finalform character or with an intervening space.
Thethree possible cases are illustrated for the pluralsuffix h?
(??)
in flsTyny h?
(???????
??)?Palestinians?
and the imperfective prefix my(??)
in my rvnd (??
????)
?they are going?.
In theseexamples, the tilde (~) is used to indicate the finalform marker which is represented as the controlcharacter \u200C in Unicode (also known as thezero-width non-joiner).
As shown, the affixes maybe attached to the stem, they may be separated withthe final form control marker, or they can bedetached and appear with the intervening controlmarker as well as a whitespace.
All of thesesurface forms are attested in various Persiancorpora.Attached Final Form  Intervening SpaceflsTynyh?
flsTyny~h?
flsTyny~ h?myrvnd  my~rvnd my~ rvndIn his two-level morphological analyzer,(Riazati, 1997) is unable to analyze the detachedaffixes and decides to treat these elements insyntax.
Thus, the two surface realizations ofmorphemes such as the plural h?
are analyzed indifferent levels of the system (the attached versionin the morphological analyzer and the detachedform in the syntactic parser).
In the unification-based system developed at CRL (Megerdoomian,2000), a post-tokenization component is used tojoin the detached morpheme to the stem, separatedby the control character.
The morphologicalgrammar is then designed to recognize bothsurface forms.The advantage of the finite-state systemdescribed here is the ability to process multiwordtokens in the analyzer.
Thus, by treating the finalform character (the zero-width non-joiner) as aspace in the tokenization rules, we are able toanalyze the detached morphemes in Persian as partof multiword tokens within the lexc grammarmodule.
This allows us to treat both formsuniformly in the morphological analyzer and thereis no need for a preprocessing module or fordelaying the analysis of the detached morphemesto the syntactic level.Complex tokens.
?Complex tokens?
refer tomulti-element forms, which consist of affixes thatrepresent a separate lexical category or part ofspeech than the one they attach to.
As in languagessuch as Arabic and Hebrew, Persian also allowsattached word-like morphemes such as thepreposition bh (??)
(b- in attached form), thedeterminer ayn (???
), the postposition r?
(??
), or therelativizer kh (??
), that form such complex tokensand need to be analyzed within the morphologicalanalyzer.
Similarly, a number of pronominal orverbal clitic elements may appear on various partsof speech categories, giving rise to complextokens.
The examples below illustrate some ofthese complex constructions where two distinctpart of speech items appear attached.
The word-like affixes are shown in bold in the examplesbelow.
(i) beqydh    Sm?
??????
??
?to+opinion you?in your opinion?
(ii) aynk?r         ?????
?this+work?this work?
(iii) anqlaby-tryn-ha-ySan-nd     ??????????????????
?revolutionary+Sup+Plur+Pron.3pl+Cop.3pl?they are the most revolutionary ones?To account for these cases in the Persian system,the different part of speech items are analyzedwithin the morphological analyzer and they areseparated with an angle bracket as shown belowfor ktabhayman ) ??????????
(  ?our books?
andbeqydh )??????
(   ?to+opinion?.ktabhayman?ktab+Noun+Pl>av+Pron+Pers+Poss+1P+Pl+Clitbeqydh?
bh+Prep< eqydh +Noun+SgThe angle brackets are used to distinguish theseelements from regular inflectional morphemessince the distinct part of speech information maybe needed at a later stage of processing, e.g., forparsing or machine translation.
Each word-likeprefix is presented by its stem form: av )??(?he/she?
for the pronominal clitic and bh )??
(  ?to?for the baseform of the preposition.
This stem formis then followed by the relevant morphosyntactictags.
If the information is not required, as in thecase of certain information retrieval applications,the elements separated by the angle brackets caneasily be stripped off without losing theinformation of the content carrying category,namely the noun in these examples.In certain cases, two distinct syntactic categoriesmay appear without an intervening space eventhough they are not attached.
For instance, thepreposition dr )??
(  ?in?
ends in the character ?r?which does not distinguish between a final formand an attached form.
Sometimes dr appearswithout a space separating it from the followingword and the tokenizer is not able to segment thetwo words since there is no final form to mark theword boundary.
Similarly, in many online corporasources, the coordination marker v )?
(  ?and?appears juxtaposed with the following wordwithout an intervening space; and since the letter?v?
does not distinguish between a final andattached form, the tokenizer cannot determine theword boundary.
These common words that oftenappear written without an intervening space,though not actually inflectional morphemes, aretreated as prefixes in the system as illustratedbelow:vgft ?
v+Coord< gftn+Verb+Pret+3P+Sg     ???
?drdftr ?
dr+Prep< dftr+Noun+Sg                ?????
?Phonetics & Phonological Rules.
In Persian,the form of morphological affixes varies based onthe ending character of the stem.
Hence, if ananimate noun ends in a consonant, it receives theplural morpheme ?
?n as in zn?n )????
(  ?women?.
Ifthe animate noun ends in a vowel, the glide ?y?
isinserted between the stem and the pluralmorpheme as in gd?y?n )??????
(  ?the poor?.Similarly, for animate nouns that end in a silent ?h?
(i.e., the letter ?h?
which is pronounced as ?
), theytake the morpheme ?g?n as in frSth )?????
(  ?frStg?n )???????
(  ?angels?.A problem arises in Persian with characters thatmay be either vowels or consonants and cannot beanalyzed correctly simply based on theorthography.
For instance, the character ?v?
is aconsonant in g?v )???
(  ?cow?
(pronounced ?gaav?
)but a vowel in d?nSJv )??????
(  ?university student?
(pronounced ?daneshjoo?).
The character ?h?
ispronounced as a consonant in m?h )???
(  ?moon?
butas a vowel in bynndh  )??????
(  ?viewer?
(pronounced?binand??).
Similarly, ?y?
is a glide in r?ay ?vote?but a vowel  in m?hy )????
(  ?fish?
(pronounced?maahee?).
Hence, it is clear that in Persian, theorthographic realization of a character does notnecessarily correspond to the phoneticpronunciation, yet phonological alternations ofmorphemes are sensitive to the phonetics of stems.In the finite-state lexicon, the nonverbal andclosed class lexical items are separated based ontheir final character, i.e., whether they end in aconsonant or a vowel, and word boundary tags areused to determine the relevant phonologicalalternations.
In particular, the words ending in avowel sound are marked with a word boundary tag^WB.
Hence, the words d?nSJv, bynndh and m?hywill be marked with a ^WB tag but not thoseending in the consonant pronunciation of the samecharacters, namely g?v, m?h and r?ay.
This allowsus to convert the nominal endings of these wordsto their phonetic pronunciation rather thanmaintaining their orthographic realization, helpingus disambiguate phonological rules for nominalaffixes.The words tagged with the boundary marker^WB undergo phonetic alternations which convertthe ending characters ?v?, ?h?
and ?y?
to ?u?, ?e?
and?i?, respectively, in order to distinguish vowels andconsonants when the phonological rules apply.Thus, after the phonetic alternations have applied,the word m?h ending in the consonant ?h?
istransliterated as [mah] while the word bynndhending in the vowel or silent ?h?
is represented as[bynnde].Once the ending vowel and consonant charactershave been differentiated orthographically, thephonological alternation rules can apply correctly.We mark morpheme boundaries in the lexc withthe tag ^NB.
This permits the analysis routine toeasily locate the area of application of thephonological alternations when the rules arecomposed with the lexicon transducer.
One suchphonological rule for the animate plural marker -?nis exemplified below:define plural [e %^NB ?
g || _ a n];This regular expression rule indicates that theword ending in the vowel ?e?
and followed by amorpheme boundary marker is to be replaced by?g?, in the context of the plural morpheme ?an?.This rule captures the phonological alternation forbynndh )??????
(  ?viewer?
?
bynndg?n )????????
(?viewers?.Thus, since the phonetic representation ofPersian nouns and adjectives plays a crucial role inthe type of phonological rule that should apply tomorpheme boundaries, we manipulate theorthographic realization of certain words in orderto eliminate the ambiguities that may ariseotherwise.Past morphological analysis systems have eithernot captured the pronunciation-orthographydiscrepancy in Persian thus not constraining theanalyses allowed, or they have preclassified theform of the morpheme that can appear on eachtoken.
The advantage of the current system is that,by using phonological rules that apply across theboard at all morpheme boundaries, we can captureimportant linguistic generalizations.
For instance,there is no need to write three distinct plural rulesto represent the various surface forms of the pluralsuffix ?
?n (namely, -?n, -g?n, and ?y?n).
Instead,we can write one single rule adding the ?
?nmorpheme and apply phonological rules that canalso apply to the boundaries for the pronoun clitic,indefinite, ?ezafe?
and relativizing encliticmorphemes, providing a very effective linguisticgeneralization.3.2 Verbal ParadigmThe inflectional system for Persian verbs is quitecomplex and consists of simple forms andcompound forms; the latter are forms that requirean auxiliary verb.
There are two stems used in theformation of the verbal conjugation, which maycombine with prefixes marking the imperfective,negation or subjunctive, person and numberinflections, suffixes for marking participle forms,and the causative infix.
Certain tenses also useauxiliaries to form the perfect forms, the futuretense or the passive constructions.Two stems.
One of the intricacies of thePersian verbal system  (and of Indo-Aryan verbalsystems in general) is the existence of two distinctstem types used in the formation of differenttenses: The present stem is used in the creation ofForm Tense Prefix Stem Inflection Auxiliarymygryzd??
????
?Present ImperfectivemyPresentgryzPresent.3sgd---mygryxt??
????
?Imperfect ImperfectivemyPastgryxtPast.3sg?
?---mygryxth ast??
??????
??
?CompoundImperfectImperfectivemyPastgryxtParticiplehPresent be.3sg)andbgryz????
?Imperative SubjunctivebPresentgryzImperative.2sg?
?---Table 1: Long-distance dependency between prefix and personal inflectionthe present tense, the simple subjunctive, theimperative and the present participle.
On what isknown as the past stem are formed the preterite,the imperfect, the past participle and pastcompounds.
Furthermore, all infinitives and futuretenses are built on the past stem while allcausatives, regardless of tense, are created on thepresent stem.
For computational purposes, the twostems are treated as distinct entities because theyoften have different surface forms and cannot bederived from each other.
Two examples are givenbelow for krdn (????)
and gryxtn (??????)
in theactual pronunciation2:Infinitival Present Stem  Past Stemkardan kon kard ?to do/make?gorixtan goriz gorixt  ?to flee?Since the infinitival or citation form of the verbsis built on the past stem, the verbal finite-statetransducer has to produce the past stem on theupper side, allowing the derivation of theinfinitive.
A problem arises when the input stringis the present stem form as in the present tensemy gryznd )??
??????
(  ?they are fleeing?.
In thisinstance, we would need to output the past stemform of the verb, namely gryxt )?????
( .
In order tocapture the association between the present andpast stems in Persian, we link these forms in theverbal lexicon by allowing all present stems to mapto thetransdclasslistedthe paand uforme2 Nare ntransliimperfect my gryxtnd  )??
???????
( ?they werefleeing?.LEXICON PresentStemgryxt:gryz VerbReg ; !
to fleenvSt:nvys VerbReg ; !
to writeaftad:aft VerbReg ; !
to fallLEXICON PastStemgryxt InfBoundary ; !
to fleenvSt InfBoundary ; !
to writeaftad InfBoundary ; !
to fallIn both cases the upper side past stem string ismarked with a delimiter tag ^INF which is latermapped to ?n?, forming the surface form of theinfinitive.
The resulting stem form for the finiteverb my gryznd )??
??????
(  ?they are fleeing?
isthus the infinitival gryxtn  )??????
(  ?to flee?.Long-distance dependencies3.
As can beseen in the examples given above for the verbgryxtn )??????
(  ?to flee?, the prefix my- )??
(  cannotbe used to distinguish the tense of the verbal entrysince it is used in the formation of the present, theimperfect or the compound imperfect.
In order todecide whether my is forming e.g., the presenttense or the past imperfect, the stem and finalinflection need to be taken into account.
Thus, ifmy is attached to the present stem, it forms theregular present tense forms but if it is attached tosimpleendingle 1).onlyunctiveable 1,used if2) for aal long-els of  past stem form in the upper side of theucer, as illustrated in the first continuationbelow.
In addition, the same verbs have to bein a different lexical continuation class withst stems alone (i.e., past stem on both lowerpper sides) in order to analyze the tensesd on the past stem of the verb such as theote that in Persian, the short vowels such as o,a,eot generally transcribed, hence the directteration of the examples would bekrdn kn krd ?to do, to make?gryxtn gryz gryxt ?to flee?the past stem, then it gives rise to either theimperfect or the compound imperfect, depon the final inflection forms (see TabSimilarly, the imperative inflection canappear on a present stem with the subjprefix ?b?, as shown in bgryz )?????
(   in Twhereas only the present inflection can be3 See for instance (Sproat, 1992; pages 91-9description of the issue raised by ?morphologicdistance dependencies?
in finite-state modmorphology.the imperfective prefix ?my?
is used, as shown withmy gryzd  )??
?????
(  .Accounting for the long-distance dependencybetween the prefix and the personal inflection inPersian in a finite-state two-level morphologicalanalyzer leads to very complex paths andcontinuation class structures in the lexicalgrammar.
Also, using filters to capture long-distance dependencies can sometimes largelyincrease the size of the transducer.
Since thereexist several cases of interdependencies betweennon-adjacent morphemes in Persian verbformation, we have opted to keep a simplercontinuation class structure in the lexc grammarsand to instead take advantage of  flag diacriticsand their unification process.Flag diacritics are multicharacter symbols andcan be used within the lexc grammar to permit theanalysis routines to use the information provided interms of feature-value settings to constrainsubsequent paths.
Hence, whether a transition tothe following path would apply depends on thesuccess of the operation defined by the flagdiacritic.
In essence, the flag diacritic allows thesystem to perform a unification of the features setin the analysis process.
Xerox finite statetechnology includes a number of different flagdiacritic operators but the only one used in thisPersian system is the U-type or the Unification flagdiacritic.
The template for the format of these flagsis as follows: @U.feature.value@.
Flag diacriticsare used to keep the fst small and yet be able toapply certain constraints, in particular whendealing with interdependencies between non-adjacent morphemes within a word.For example, to capture the choice of theimperative vs. the present tense inflection based onthe prefix that appears on the present stem of theverb, we use a flag diacritic with the attributePFXTYP (PrefixType) which is then set to IMP(for imperfective) or SUB (for subjunctive).
Thisflag diacritic is set when the prefixes are read andthey are unified with the PFXTYP flags at thelexical class defining the personal inflectionalparadigm.
If the values of the PFXTYP flagdiacritic match at this point, unification takes placeallowing the concatenation of the prefix andpresent stem combination with the personalinflection.Similarly, the agentive, infinitive and participialforms can be formed only if there is no prefix at allon the verbal stem.
This is captured by the flagdiacritic attribute PFX, which has the two possiblevalues PRESENT and ABSENT.
Thus, the lexcrule for the Infinitive, for instance, requires that thePFX flag?s value be set to ABSENT.
This, ineffect, captures the fact that mygryxtn (my?imperfective?
+ gryxt ?past stem?
+ n ?infinitivemarker?)
is not a valid form since the infinitivemarker ?n can only appear on a past stem thatlacks an overt prefix.4 EvaluationThe lexicon used in the Inxight system currentlyconsists of 43,154 lemmas, which include nouns,adjectives, verbs, adverbs and closed class items.In addition, there are about 12,000 comomonproper noun entities listed in the lexicon.
Thesystem also recognizes date, number and internetexpressions.The current Persian morphological analyzer hasa coverage of 97.5% on a 7MB corpus collectedmostly from online news sources.
The accuracy ofthe system is about 95%.
The unanalyzed tokensare often proper nouns or words missing from thelexicon.
In addition, colloquial forms of speech arenot covered in the current system.The finite state transducer consists of 178,452states and 928,982 arcs before optimization.
Andthe speed of the analyzer is 20.84 CPU time inseconds for processing a 10MB file executed on amodern Sun SparcStation.5 ConclusionThis paper describes some of the challengesencountered in a computational morphologicalanalysis of Persian and discusses the solutionsproposed within the finite state system developedat Inxight Software based on the Xerox Finite StateTechnology.
The approaches adopted arecompared with past systems of Persian wheneverrelevant.
The paper presents the problems arisingfrom detached inflectional morphemes, as well asattached word-like elements forming complextokens, the discrepancy between orthography andphonetics in application of phonological rules, andthe interdependency between non-adjacentmorphemes in a word.
In each case, it was arguedthat methods adopted from the finite-state calculuscan capture linguistic generalizations and reducethe transducer to a manageable and commerciallyviable size.6 AcknowledgementsWe gratefully acknowledge the help and supportprovided by the development team at InxightSoftware and the insightful suggestions of themembers of the Lingware group.
I would also liketo thank the anonymous reviewers for theirdetailed comments.ReferencesMohammad-Reza Bateni.
1995.
Towsif-eSakhteman-e Dastury-e Zaban-e Farsi[Description of the Linguistic Structure ofPersian Language].
Amir Kabir Publishers,Tehran, Iran.Kenneth R. Beesley and Lauri Karttunen.
2003.Finite-State Morphology: Xerox Tools andTechniques.
CSLI Publications, Palo Alto.Lauri Karttunen and Kenneth R. Beesley.
1992.Two-Level Rule Compiler.
Technical Report.ISTL-1992-2.
Xerox Palo Alto Research Center.Palo Alto, California.Gilbert Lazard.
1992.
A Grammar ofContemporary Persian.
Mazda Publishers.Shahrzad Mahootian.
1997.
Persian.Routledge.Karine Megerdoomian.
2000.
Unification-BasedPersian Morphology.
In Proceedings of CICLing2000.
Alexander Gelbukh, ed.
Centro deInvestigaci?n en Computaci?n-IPN, Mexico.Dariush Riazati.1997.
Computational Analysis ofPersian Morphology.
MSc thesis, Department ofComputer Science, RMIT.Richard Sproat.
1992.
Morphology andComputation.MIT Press, Cambridge,Massachusetts.
