Corpus-based Induction of an LFG Syntax-Semantics Interfacefor Frame Semantic ProcessingAnette FrankLanguage Technology LabDFKI GmbHStuhlsatzenhausweg 366123 Saarbru?cken, GermanyAnette.Frank@dfki.deJir???
Semecky?Institute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsCharles UniversityMalostranske?
na?me?st??
2511800 Prague, Czech Republicsemecky@ufal.ms.mff.cuni.czAbstractWe present a method for corpus-based induc-tion of an LFG syntax-semantics interface forframe semantic processing in a computationalLFG parsing architecture.
We show how tomodel frame semantic annotations in an LFGprojection architecture, including special phe-nomena that involve non-isomorphic mappingsbetween levels.
Frame semantic annotationsare ported from a manually annotated corpusto a ?parallel?
LFG corpus.
We extract func-tional descriptions from the frame-annotatedLFG corpus, to derive general frame assign-ment rules that can be applied to new sentences.We evaluate the results by applying the inducedframe assignment rules to LFG parser output.11 IntroductionThere is a growing insight that high-quality NLPapplications for information access are in need ofdeeper, in particular, semantic analysis.
A bottle-neck for semantic processing is the lack of largedomain-independent lexical semantic resources.There are now efforts for the creation of large lex-ical semantic resources that provide information onpredicate-argument structure.
FrameNet (Baker etal., 1998), building on Fillmore?s theory of framesemantics, provides definitions of frames and theirsemantic roles, a lexical database and a manuallyannotated corpus of example sentences.
A strictlycorpus-based approach is carried out with ?Prop-Bank?
?
a manual predicate-argument annotation ontop of the Penn treebank (Kingsbury et al, 2002).First approaches for learning stochastic modelsfor semantic role assignment from annotated cor-pora have emerged with Gildea and Jurafsky (2002)and Fleischman et al (2003).
While current com-petitions explore the potential of shallow parsing1The research reported here was conducted in a coopera-tion project of the German Research Center for Artificial Intel-ligence, DFKI Saarbru?cken with the Computational LinguisticsDepartment of the University of the Saarland at Saarbru?cken.for role labelling, Gildea and Palmer (2002) empha-sise the role of deeper syntactic analysis for seman-tic role labelling.
We follow this line and explorethe potential of deep syntactic analysis for role la-belling, choosing Lexical Functional Grammar asunderlying syntactic framework.
We aim at a com-putational interface for frame semantics processingthat can be used to (semi-)automatically extend thesize of current training corpora for learning stochas-tic models for role labelling, and ?
ultimately ?
as abasis for automatic frame assignment in NLP tasks,based on the acquired stochastic models.We discuss advantages of semantic role assign-ment on the basis of functional syntactic analy-ses as provided by LFG parsing, and present anLFG syntax-semantics interface for frame seman-tics, building on a first study in Frank and Erk(2004).
In the present paper we focus on the corpus-based induction of a computational LFG interfacefor frame semantics from a semantically annotatedcorpus.
We describe the methods used to derive anLFG-based frame semantic lexicon, and discuss thetreatment of special (since non-isomorphic) map-pings in the syntax-semantics interface.
Finally, weapply the acquired frame assignment rules in a com-putational LFG parsing architecture.The paper is structured as follows.
Section 2gives some background on the semantically anno-tated corpus we are using, and the LFG resourcesthat provide the basis for automatic frame assign-ment.
In Section 3 we discuss advantages of deepersyntactic analysis for a principle-based syntax-semantics interface for semantic role labelling.
Wepresent an LFG interface for frame semantics whichwe realise in a modular description-by-analysis ar-chitecture.
Section 4 describes the method we applyto derive frame assignment rules from corpus anno-tations: we port the frame annotations to a ?paral-lel?
LFG corpus and induce general LFG frame as-signment rules, by extracting syntactic descriptionsfor the frame constituting elements.
We use LFG?sfunctional representations to distinguish local andnon-local role assignments.
The derived frame as-SPD requests that coalition talk about reformFigure 1: SALSA/TIGER frame annotationsignment rules are reapplied to the original syntac-tic LFG corpus to control the results.
In Section 5we apply and evaluate the frame projection rules inan LFG parsing architecture.
In Section 6 we sum-marise our results and discuss future directions.2 Corpus and Grammar ResourcesFrame Semantic Corpus Annotations The basisfor our work is a corpus of manual frame annota-tions, the SALSA/TIGER corpus (Erk et al, 2003).2The annotation follows the FrameNet definitions offrames and their semantic roles.3 Underlying thiscorpus is a syntactically annotated corpus of Ger-man newspaper text, the TIGER treebank (Brantset al, 2002).
TIGER syntactic annotations consistof relatively flat constituent graph representations,with edge labels that indicate functional informa-tion, such as head (HD), subject (SB), cf.
Figure 1.The SALSA frame annotations are flat graphsconnected to syntactic constituents.
Figure 1 dis-plays frame annotations where the REQUEST frameis triggered by the (discontinuous) frame evoking el-ement (FEE) fordert ... auf (requests).
The seman-tic roles (or frame elements, FEs) are represented aslabelled edges that point to syntactic constituents inthe TIGER syntactic annotation: the noun SPD forthe SPEAKER, Koalition for the ADDRESSEE, andthe PP zu Gespra?ch u?ber Reform for the MESSAGE.LFG Grammar Resources We aim at a computa-tional syntax-semantics interface for frame seman-tics, to be used for (semi-)automatic corpus annota-tion for training of stochastic role assignment mod-els, and ultimately as a basis for automatic frame as-signment.
As a grammar resource we chose a wide-coverage computational LFG grammar for German(developed at IMS, University of Stuttgart).
ThisGerman LFG grammar has already been used forsemi-automatic syntactic annotation of the TIGERcorpus, with reported coverage of 50%, and 70%2http://www.coli.uni-sb.de/lexicon3See http://www.icsi.berkeley.edu/?framenetprecision (Brants et al, 2002).
The grammar runson the XLE grammar processing platform, whichprovides stochastic training and online disambigua-tion packages.
Currently, the grammar is further ex-tended, and will be enhanced with stochastic disam-biguation, along the lines of (Riezler et al, 2002).LFG Corpus Resource Next to the German LFGgrammar, (Forst, 2003) has derived a ?parallel?
LFGf-structure corpus from the TIGER treebank, by ap-plying methods for treebank conversion.
We makeuse of the parallel treebank to induce LFG frame an-notation rules from the SALSA/TIGER annotations.3 LFG for Frame SemanticsLexical Functional Grammar (Bresnan, 2001)assumes multiple levels of representation.
Mostprominent are the syntactic representations ofc(onstituent)- and f(unctional)-structure.
The corre-spondence between c- and f-structure is defined byfunctional annotations of rules and lexical entries.This architecture can be extended to semantics pro-jection (Halvorsen and Kaplan, 1995).LFG f-structure representations abstract awayfrom surface-syntactic properties, by localising ar-guments in mid- and long-distance constructions,and therefore allow for uniform reference to syntac-tic dependents in diverse syntactic configurations.This is important for the task of frame annotation,as it abstracts away from aspects of syntax that areirrelevant to frame (element) assignment.In (1), e.g., the SELLER role can be uniformly as-sociated with the local SUBJect of sell, even thoughit is realized as (a.)
a relative pronoun of come thatcontrols the SUBJect of sell, (b.)
an implicit secondperson SUBJ, (c.) a non-overt SUBJ controlled bythe OBLique object of hard, and (d.) a SUBJ (we) inVP coordination.
(1) a.
The woman who had come in to sell flowersoverheard their conversation.b.
Don?t sell the factory to another company.c.
It would be hard for him to sell newmont shares.d.
.. we decided to sink some of our capital, buy acar, and sell it again before leaving.LFG Semantics Projection for Frames As in astandard LFG projection architecture, we define aframe semantics projection ?f from the level of f-structure.
We define the ?f ?projection to introduceelementary frame structures, with attributes FRAME,FEE (frame-evoking element), and frame-specificrole attributes.
Figure 2 displays the ?f?projectionfor the sentence in Figure 1.44The MESSAGE role is coindexed with a lower frame, theframe projection introduced by the noun Gespr a?ch.?????????
?PRED ?AUFFORDERN?(SUBJ)(OBJ)(OBL)?
?SUBJ[PRED ?SPD?
]OBJ[PRED ?KOALITION?]OBL???
?PRED ?ZU?(OBJ)??OBJ?
?PRED ?GESPRA?CH?ADJ[PRED ?U?BER?(OBJ)?
?OBJ[PRED ?REFORM?]]?????????????????f????
?FRAME REQUESTFEE AUFFORDERNSPEAKER [ ]ADDRESSEE [ ]MESSAGE [ ]???????
?FRAME CONVERSATIONFEE GESPRA?CHINTERLOCUTOR 1 [ ]TOPIC [ ]??
?Figure 2: LFG projection architecture for Frame Semanticsauffordern V,(?PRED)=?AUFFORDERN?(?SUBJ)(?OBJ)(?OBL)??...
(?f (?)
FRAME) = REQUEST(?f (?)
FEE) = (?
PRED FN)(?f (?)
SPEAKER) = ?f (?
SUBJ)(?f (?)
ADDRESSEE) = ?f (?
OBJ)(?f (?)
MESSAGE) = ?f (?
OBL OBJ)Figure 3: Frame projection by co-descriptionFigure 3 states the lexical entry for the REQUESTframe.
?f is a function of f-structure.
The verbauffordern introduces a node ?f (?)
in the semanticsprojection of ?, its local f-structure, and defines itsattributes FRAME and FEE.
The frame elements aredefined as ?f?projections of the verb?s SUBJ, OBJand OBL OBJ functions.
E.g.
the SPEAKER role,referred to as (?f (?)
SPEAKER), the SPEAKER at-tribute in the projection ?f (?)
of ?, is defined asidentical to the ?f?projection of the verb?s SUBJ,?f (?
SUBJ).Frames in Context The projection of frames incontext can yield connected frame structures.
InFigure 2, Gespra?ch fills the MESSAGE role ofREQUEST, but it also introduces a frame of itsown, CONVERSATION.
Thus, the CONVERSATIONframe, by coindexation, is an instantiation, in con-text, of the MESSAGE of REQUEST.Co-description vs. description-by-analysis Inthe co-description architecture we just presentedf- and s-structure equations jointly determine thevalid analyses of a sentence.
Analyses that donot satisfy both f- and s-structure constraints areinconsistent and ruled out.An alternative to co-description is semanticsconstruction via description-by-analysis (DBA)(Halvorsen and Kaplan, 1995).
Here, semanticsis built on top of fully resolved f-structures.
F-structures that are consistent with semantic mappingconstraints are semantically enriched ?
remaininganalyses are left untouched.Both models are equally powerful ?
yet while co-pred(X,auffordern),subj(X,A), obj(X,B), obl(X,C), obj(C,D)==>+?sf ::?
(X,SemX), +frame(SemX,request),+fee(X,auffordern),+?sf ::?
(A,SemA), +speaker(SemX,SemA),+?sf ::?
(B,SemB), +addressee(SemX,SemB),+?sf ::?
(D,SemD), +message(SemX,SemD).Figure 4: Frame projection by DBA (via transfer)description integrates the semantics projection intothe grammar and parsing process, DBA keeps it as aseparate module.
Thus, with DBA, semantics doesnot interfere with grammar design and can be de-veloped separately.
The DBA approach also facili-tates the integration of external semantic knowledgesources (such as word senses or named entity types).DBA by transfer We realise the DBA approachby way of a term-rewriting transfer system that ispart of the XLE grammar processing platform.
Thesystem represents f-structures as sets of predicateswhich take as arguments variables for f-structurenodes or atomic values.
Transfer is defined as asequence of ordered rules.
If a rule applies to aninput set of predicates, it defines a new output set.This output set is input to the next rule in the cas-cade.
A rule applies if all terms on its left-hand sidematch some term in the input set.
The terms on theright hand side (prefixed ?+?)
are added to the in-put set.
There are obligatory (==>) and optional(?=>) rules.
Optional rules introduce two outputsets: one results from application of the rule, theother is equal to the input set.Figure 4 displays a transfer rule that correspondsto the co-description lexical entry of Figure 3.
Formatched f-structure nodes (pred, subject, object,oblique object) it defines a ?f?projection (by pred-icate ?s::f ?)
with new s-structure nodes.
For these,we define the frame information (FRAME, FEE) andthe linking of semantic roles (e.g., the ?f?projectionSemA of the SUBJ is defined as the SPEAKER roleof the head?s semantic projection SemX).Frame FeeID Role(s) FeID(s)Request 2 (from {2, 8}) Speaker 1Addressee 3Message 501Figure 5: Core frame information for Fig.
1% projecting frame information for FEEproject fee(FeeID, Frame) ::ti-id(X,FeeID), pred(X,Pred) ==>+?s::?
(X,S X), +frame(S X,Frame), +fee(S X,Pred).% semantic projection for (each) FE of FEEproject fe of fee(FeeID, Frame, FeID, Role) ::ti-id(X,FeeID), ?s::?
(X,S X), frame(S X,Frame),ti-id(Y,FeID), pred(Y,Pred) ==>+?s::?
(Y,S Y), +Role(S X,S Y), +rel(S Y,Pred).Figure 6: SALSA-2-LFG-TIGER transfer4 Corpus-based induction of an LFGframe semantics interface4.1 Porting SALSA annotations to LFGA challenge for corpus-based induction of a syntax-semantics interface for frame assignment is thetransposition of the corpus annotations from a givensyntactic annotation scheme to the target syntacticframework.
The basis for our work are annotationsof the SALSA/TIGER corpus (Erk et al, 2003), en-coded in an XML annotation scheme that extendsthe syntactic TIGER XML annotation scheme.The TIGER treebank has been converted to a par-allel LFG f-structure corpus (Forst, 2003).
TheSALSA/TIGER and LFG-TIGER corpora could beused to learn corresponding syntactic paths in therespective structures.
Thus, we could establishthe paths of frame constituting elements in theSALSA/TIGER corpus, and port the annotations tothe corresponding path in the LFG-TIGER corpus.However, we could apply a more precise method,by exploiting the fact that the LFG-TIGER cor-pus preserves the original TIGER constituent iden-tifiers, as f-structure features TI-ID (see Fig.
7).
Weuse these ?anchors?
to port the SALSA annotationsto the parallel LFG-TIGER treebank.
Thus, in afirst step we extend the latter to an LFG corpus withframe semantics projection.
From the extended cor-pus we induce general LFG frame assignment rules.This will be described in more detail in Section 4.2.Porting annotations by transfer For each sen-tence we extract the constituent identifiers of frameconstituting elements in the SALSA XML annota-tions (cf.
Figure 5).
This information is coded intotransfer rules, where we refer to the correspondingTI-ID features in the f-structure as anchors to projectthe frame information for a given frame annotationFigure 7: LFG-TIGER f-structure (w/ TI-ID)Figure 8: Frame projection from f-str of Fig.
7instance.
The first transfer rule (template) in Figure6 defines the semantic projection of the FEE, wherethe correct f-structure location is referenced by thefeature TI-ID.
Subsequent rules ?
one for each roleto be assigned ?
define the given semantic role as anargument of the FEE?s semantic projection, againusing the TI-IDs of the FEE and FE as anchors.We generate these frame projection rules for eachsentence in the SALSA/TIGER corpus, and applythem to the corresponding f-structure in the LFG-TIGER corpus.
The result is an LFG corpus withframe semantic anntations (cf.
Figures 7 and 8).The basic structure of frame-inducing rules inFigure 6 was refined to account for special cases:Coordination For frame elements that corre-spond to coordinated constituents, as in Figure 9, weproject a semantic role that records a set of semanticpredicates (REL), one for each of the conjuncts.Beamten, Politikern und Gescha?ftsleuten wirdSchmiergeld bezahlt ?
Clerks, politicians andbusinessmen are payed bribesFigure 9: Frame with coordinated RECVR roleUnderspecification The SALSA annotationscheme allows for underspecification, to representunresolved word sense ambiguities or optionality(Erk et al, 2003).
In a given context, a predicatemay evoke alternative frames (i.e.
word senses),where it is impossible to decide between them.E.g.
the verb verlangen (demand) may conveythe meaning of REQUEST, but also COMMERCIALTRANSACTION.
Such cases are annotated withFigure 10: Underspecification as disjunction4 Artikel gingen u?ber die Ladentheke?4 items were soldFigure 11: Multiword expressionsalternative frames, which are marked as elements ofan ?underspecification group?.
Underspecificationmay also affect frame elements of a single frame.A motion (Antrag), e.g., may be both MEDIUM andSPEAKER of a REQUEST.
Finally, a constituentmay or may not be interpreted as a frame elementof a given frame.
It is then represented as a singleelement of an underspecification group.We model underspecification as disjunction,which is encoded by optional transfer rules that cre-ate alternative (disjunctive) contexts.
Optionality ismodeled by a single optional rule.
Figure 10 dis-plays the result of underspecified frame element as-signment in an f-structure chart (Maxwell and Ka-plan, 1989).
Context c1 displays the reading whereAntrag is assigned the SPEAKER role, alternatively,in context c2, it is assigned the role MEDIUM.In a symbolic account disjunction doesn?t cor-rectly model the intended meaning of underspecifi-cation.
Yet, a stochastic model for frame assignmentshould render the vagueness involved in underspec-ification by close stochastic weights.
Thus, under-specified annotation instances provide alternativeframes in the training data and can be used for fine-grained evaluation of frame assignment models.Multiword Expressions The treatment of mul-tiword expressions (idioms, support constructions)requires special care.
For idioms, the constitutingelements are annotated as multiple frame evokingelements (cf.
Figure 11 for u?ber die Ladenthekegehen ?
go over the counter (being sold)).
We de-fine semantic projections for the individual compo-nents: the main frame evoking predicate (FEE) andthe idiom-constituting words, which are recorded ina set-valued feature FEE-MWE.
Otherwise, idiomsare treated like ordinary main verbs.
E.g., like sell,the expression triggers a COMMERCE SELL framewith the appropriate semantic roles, here GOODS.Asymmetric Embedding Another type of non-isomorphism between syntactic and semantic rep-Figure 12: Asymmetric embedding (example (2))resentation occurs in cases where distinct syntacticconstituents are annotated as instantiation of a sin-gle semantic role.
In (2), PP and NP are annotatedas the MESSAGE of a STATEMENT, since they jointlyconvey its content.
Projecting distinct constituentsto a single semantic node can, however, lead to in-consistencies, especially if both constituents inde-pendently project semantic frames.
(2) Der Geschaeftsfuehrer gab [PP?MO als Grundfuer die Absage] [NP?OBJ Terminnoete] an.The director mentioned [time conflicts] [as areason for cancelling the appointment]In the SALSA annotations asymmetric embeddingat the semantic level is the typical pattern for suchdouble-constituent annotations.
I.e., for (2), weassume a target frame structure where the MES-SAGE of STATEMENT points to the PP ?
which it-self projects a frame REASON with semantic rolesCAUSE for Terminno?te, and EFFECT for Absage.Such multiple-constituent annotations arise incases where frame annotations are partial: sincecorpus annotation proceeds frame-wise, in (2) theREASON frame may not have been treated yet.Moreover, annotators are in general not shown com-plete(d) sentence annotations.We account for these cases by a simulation offunctional uncertainty equations, which accommo-date for a potential embedded frame within eitherone of the otherwise re-entrant constituents.
We ap-ply a transfer rule set that embeds one (or the other)of the two constituent projections as an embeddedrole of an unknown frame, to be evoked by the re-spective ?dominating?
node.
We introduce an ?un-known?
role ROLE?
for the embedded constituent,which is to be interpreted as a functional uncertaintypath over variable semantic roles.Figure 12 displays the alternative (hypothetical)frame structures for (2), where the second one ?with FRAME instantiated to REASON and ROLE?
toCAUSE ?
corresponds to the actual reading.Overview of data Our current data set comprises12436 frame annotations for 11934 sentences.
Ta-ble 1 gives frequency figures for the special phe-coord usp mwe asym >dbl allabs 467 395 1287 421 97 12436in % 3.76 3.18 10.34 3.39 0.78 100Table 1: Overview of special annotation typesnomena: coordination, underspecification, multi-word expressions and double constituents (asym).5We successfully ported 11713 frame annotationsto the LFG-TIGER corpus, turning it into an LFGcorpus with frame annotations.4.2 Inducing frame projection rulesFrom the enriched corpus we extract lexical frameassignment rules that ?
instead of node identifiers ?use f-structure descriptions to identify constituentsand map them to frame semantic roles.
These rulescan then be applied to the f-structure output of freeLFG parsing, i.e.
to novel sentences.We designed an algorithm for extracting f-struc-ture paths between pairs of f-structure nodes thatcorrespond to the s-structure of the frame evokingelement and one of its semantic roles, respectively.Table 2 gives an example for the frame projectionin Figure 13.
Starting from the absolute f-structurepath (f-path) for (the f-structure projecting to) theFEE MITTEILEN we extract relative f-paths leadingto the roles MESSAGE and SPEAKER.
The f-path forthe MESSAGE (?OBJ) is local to the f-structure thatprojects to the FEE.
For the SPEAKER we identifytwo paths: one local, the other non-local.
The localf-path (?SUBJ) leads to the local SUBJ of mitteilenin Figure 13.
By co-indexation with the SUBJ ofversprechen we find an alternative non-local path,which we render as an inside-out functional equa-tion ((XCOMP?)
SUBJ).Since f-structures are directed acyclic graphs, weuse graph accessibility to distinguish local fromnon-local f-paths.
In case of alternative local andnon-local paths, we choose the local one.
From al-ternative non-local paths, we chose the one(s) withshortest inside-out subexpression.Generating frame assignment rules We ex-tracted f-path descriptions for frame assignmentfrom the enriched LFG-TIGER corpus.
We com-piled 9707 lexicalised frame assignment rules in theformat of Figure 4.
The average number of distinctassignment rules per FEE is 8.38.
Abstracting overthe FEEs, we obtain 7317 FRAME-specific rules,with an average of 41.34 distinct rules per frame.Due to the surface-oriented TIGER annotationformat, the original annotations contain a high num-ber of non-local frame element assignments that5Role assignment to more than two constituents (>dbl) con-stitute a rather disparate set of data we do not try to cover.?
?FRAME COMMUNICATIONFEE MITTEILENSPEAKER [ ]MESSAGE [ ]?????????
?PRED VERSPRECHENSUBJ[PRED SPD]OBJ2[PRED WA?HLER]XCOMP?
?PRED MITTEILENSUBJ [ ]OBJ[PRED BESCHLUSS]?????????
?SPD verspricht Wa?hlern, Beschlu?sse mitzuteilenSPD promises voters to report decisionsFigure 13: Local and non-local frame elementsabsolute f-path relative f-pathFEE XCOMP PRED ?MSG XCOMP OBJ ?OBJ localSPKR SUBJ (XCOMP?
)SUBJ nonlocalXCOMP SUBJ ?SUBJ localTable 2: Local and nonlocal path equationsare localised in LFG f-structures.
The f-paths ex-tracted from the enriched LFG corpus yield 12.82%non-local (inside-out) vs. 87.18% local (outside-in)frame element assignment rules.As an alternative rule format, we split frame as-signment into separate rules for projection of theFEE and the individual FEs.
This allows assignmentrules to apply in cases where the f-structure does notsatisfy the functional constraints for some FE.
Thisyields improved robustness, and accounts for syn-tactic variability when applied to new data.
For thisrule format, we obtain 960 FEE assignment rules,and 8261 FEE-specific FE assignment rules.
Ab-stracting over the FEE, this reduces to 4804 rules.64.3 Reapplying frame assignment rulesWe reapplied the induced frame assignment rules tothe original syntactic LFG-TIGER corpus, to con-trol the results.
The results are evaluated against theframe-enriched LFG-TIGER corpus that was cre-ated by explicit node anchoring (Sec.
4.1).
We ap-plied ?full frame rules?
that introduce FEE and allFEs in a single rule, as well as separated FEE andFE rules.
We applied all rules for a given frame toany sentences that had received the same frame inthe corpus.
We obtained 93.98% recall with 25.95%precision (full frame rules), and 94.98% recall with45.52% precision (split rules), cf.
Table 3.a.
Thelow precision is due to overgeneration of the moregeneral abstracted rules, which are not yet con-trolled by statistical selection.
We measured an am-biguity of 8.46/7.83 frames per annotation instance.6In the future we will experiment with assignment rules thatare not conditioned to FEEs, but to frame-specific syntactic de-scriptions, to assign frames to ?unknown?
lexical items.full frame rules FEE and FE rulesrec prec amb rec prec amb(a) 93.98 25.95 8.46 94.98 45.52 7.83(b) 52.21 6.93 13.35 76.41 18.32 9.00Table 3: Evaluation of annotation results:(a) on TIGER corpus, (b) on LFG parses5 Applying frame assignment rules in anLFG parsing architectureWe finally apply the frame assignment rules to orig-inal LFG parses of the German LFG grammar.
Thegrammar produces f-structures that are compatiblewith the LFG-TIGER corpus, thus the syntacticconstraints can match the parser?s f-structure output.In contrast to the LFG-TIGER corpus, the grammardelivers f-structures for alternative syntactic analy-ses.
We don?t expect frame projections for all syn-tactic readings, but where they apply, they will cre-ate ambiguity in the semantics projection.We applied the rules to the parses of 6032 corpussentences.
Compared to the LFG-TIGER corpus weobtain lower recall and precision (Table 3.b) and ahigher ambiguity rate per sentence.
Drop in preci-sion and higher ambiguity are due to the higher am-biguity in the syntactic input.
Moreover, we now ap-ply the complete rule set to any given sentence.
Therules can thus apply to new annotation instances,and create more ambiguity.
The drop in recall ismainly due to overgenerations by automatic lem-matisation and functional assignments to PPs in theTIGER-LFG corpus, which are not matched by theLFG parser output.
These mismatches will be cor-rected by refinements of the TIGER-LFG treebank.6 Summary and Future DirectionsWe presented a method for corpus-based inductionof an LFG syntax-semantics interface for frame se-mantic processing.
We port frame annotations froma manually annotated corpus to an LFG parsing ar-chitecture that can be used to process unparsed text.We model frame semantic annotations in an LFGprojection architecture, including phenomena thatinvolve non-isomorphic mappings between levels.In future work we will train stochastic mod-els for disambiguation of the assigned frame se-mantic structures.
We are especially interested inexploring the potential of deeper, functional syn-tactic analyses for frame assignment, in conjunc-tion with additional semantic knowledge (e.g.
wordsenses, named entities).
We will set up a bootstrap-ping cycle for learning increasingly refined stochas-tic models from growing training corpora, usingsemi-supervised learning methods.
We will exploremulti-lingual aspects of frame assignment, usingEnglish FrameNet data and an English LFG gram-mar with comparable f-structure output.
Finally, wewill investigate how similar methods can be appliedto syntactic frameworks such as HPSG, which al-ready embody a level of semantic representation.Acknowledgements We thank the IMS Stuttgart forallowing us to use the German LFG grammar.
Spe-cial thanks go to Martin Forst who provided us withthe TIGER-LFG corpus and added special featuresto support our work.
Finally, thanks go to DickCrouch who greatly enhanced the transfer system.ReferencesC.
F. Baker, C. J. Fillmore, and J.
B. Lowe.
1998.The Berkeley FrameNet project.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-ACL 1998, Montr e?al, Canada.S.Brants, S.Dipper, S.Hansen, W.Lezius, G.Smith.
2002.The TIGER Treebank.
In Proc.
of the Workshop onTreebanks and Linguistic Theories, Sozopol, Bulgaria.J.
Bresnan.
2001.
Lexical-Functional Syntax.
BlackwellPublishers, Oxford.K.
Erk, A. Kowalski, S. Pad o?, and M. Pinkal.
2003.Towards a Resource for Lexical Semantics: A LargeGerman Corpus with Extensive Semantic Annotation.In Proceedings of the ACL 2003, Sapporo, Japan.M.
Fleischman, N. Kwon, and E. Hovy.
2003.
Maxi-mum entropy models for FrameNet classification.
InProceedings of EMNLP?03, Sapporo, Japan.M.
Forst.
2003.
Treebank Conversion ?
Establishing atestsuite for a broad-coverage LFG from the TIGERtreebank.
In A. Abeill e?, S. Hansen, and H. Uszkoreit(eds), Proceedings of the 4th International Workshopon Linguistically Interpreted Corpora, Budapest.A.
Frank and K. Erk.
2004.
Towards an LFG Syntax?Semantics Interface for Frame Semantics Annotation.In A. Gelbukh (ed), Computational Linguistics and In-telligent Text Processing, Springer, Heidelberg.D.
Gildea and D. Jurafsky.
2002.
Automatic labeling ofsemantic roles.
Computational Linguistics, 28(3).D.
Gildea and M. Palmer.
2002.
The Necessity of Pars-ing for Predicate Argument Recognition.
In Proceed-ings of ACL?02, Philadelphia, PA.P.-K. Halvorsen and R.M.
Kaplan.
1995.
Projec-tions and Semantic Description in Lexical-FunctionalGrammar.
In M. Dalrymple, R.M.
Kaplan, J.T.Maxwell, A. Zaenen (eds), Formal Issues in Lexical-Functional Grammar, CSLI Lecture Notes, Stanford.P.
Kingsbury, M. Palmer, and M. Marcus.
2002.
Addingsemantic annotation to the Penn TreeBank.
In Pro-ceedings of the HLT Conference, San Diego.J.
T. III Maxwell and R. M. Kaplan.
1989.
An overviewof disjunctive constraint satisfaction.
In Proceedingsof IWPT, pages 18?27.S.
Riezler, T. H. King, R. M. Kaplan, R. Crouch, J. T. IIIMaxwell, and M. Johnson.
2002.
Parsing the WallStreet Journal using a Lexical-Functional Grammarand Discriminative Estimation Techniques.
In Pro-ceedings of the ACL?02, Philadelphia, PA.
