The Architecture of a Standard Arabic lexical database: some figures, ratiosand categories from the DIINAR.1 source programRamzi ABB?SSIIa / SILATb,ENSSIBc,17-21, bd.
du 11 nov.1918,69623 VilleubanneCedex, Franceabbes@enssib.fraSII: Syst?mes d?Information et Inter-faces, research centre, ENSSIBJoseph DICHY?LISAd / SILATb,Universit?
Lumi?re-Lyon 2,86, rue Pasteur69365 Lyon Cedex 07, Francejoseph.dichy@univ-lyon2.frd?LISA: ?pist?mologie, Linguistique,Ing?nierie et S?miologie de l?Arabe,research centre, Lumi?re-Lyon 2UniversityMohamed HASSOUNSIIa / SILATb,ENSSIBc,17-21, bd.
du 11 nov.1918,69623 Villeubanne Cedex, Francehassoun@enssib.frc ENSSIB: ?cole Nationale Sup?rieuredes Sciences de l?Information et desBiblioth?que.bSILAT: Syst?mes d?information, Linguistique, Ing?nierie de l?Arabe et Terminologie, research group common to theLyon 2 Lumi?re University and ENSSIB.
(Silat is Arabic for ?link?, ?relation?.
)AbstractThis paper is a contribution to the issue ?which has, in  the course of the last decade,become critical ?
of the basic requirementsand validation criteria for lexical languageresources in Standard Arabic.
The work isbased on a critical analysis of the architectureof the DIINAR.1 lexical database, the entriesof which are associated with grammar-lexisrelations operating at word-form level (i.e.
inmorphological analysis).
Investigation shows acrucial difference, in the concept of ?lexicaldatabase?, between source program andgenerated lexica.
The source program un-derlying DIINAR.1 is analysed, and some fig-ures and ratios are presented.
The originalcategorisations are, in the course of scrutiny,partly revisited.
Results and ratios given herefor basic entries on the one hand, and forgenerated lexica of inflected word-forms onthe other.
They aim at giving a first answer tothe question of the ratios between the numberof lemma-entries and inflected word-formsthat can be expected to be included in, orgenerated by, a Standard Arabic lexical dB.These ratios can be considered as one overalllanguage-specific criterion for the analysis,evaluation and validation of lexical dB-s inArabic.Keywords: Arabic lexical databases ?
Arabicscript ?
word-formatives grammar ?
lemma-entries ?
morphosyntactic specifiers.1 IntroductionIn the present state of the art in the developmentof software and language resources in Arabic, thereis an urgent need for evaluation and validationcriteria based on solid analytic grounds: there ex-ists nowadays a subsequent number of Arabic lexi-cal databases, and more are under completion.Existing lexical dB-s are not always, for the timebeing, available as such to researchers and/or de-velopers, because they are usually embedded insoftware (such as a morphological analyser or aparser), and are still very difficult to make use ofindependently.
It is to be expected, though, that theissue of availability will be overcome in a reasona-bly near future, and that a number of Arabic lexicaldatabases will be found on the market, or on cata-logues such as, in Europe, that of ELRA1, and inthe USA, that of LDC2.
The on-going Europeanproject NEMLAR is presently working on theavailability of language resources including lexicaldatabases3.
As a result, the crucial question of thequality and consistency of these databases shouldbe met as soon as possible.1European Language Resources Association, 55,rue Brillat-Savarin ?
75013 Paris,France.2Linguistic Data Consortium, University of Pennsyl-vania, 3600 Market Street, Suite 810, Philadelphia, PA19108, USA.3NEMLAR (Network for Euro-Mediterranean LAn-guage Resources) is coordinated by Pr.
BenteMaegaard, Center for Sprogteknologi (CST), Copenha-gen. E-mail and site: nemlar@cst.dk,www.nemlar.org.One of the criteria for the evaluation and valida-tion of a lexical database for Arabic is both quan-titative (how many?)
and qualitative (what of,precisely?).
In this paper, which refers to previouswork on the processing of Arabic and the relatedlexical resources4, we will try and give evidence onthe structure of a lexical database, founded on ananalysis of the DIINAR.1 database5.
Quantitativeresults are only interesting if they can be inter-preted in such a way as to yield information on theactual structure and categories of the lexicon of thelanguage under consideration.
We will endeavourto show that a quantitative and qualitative analysisof the lexical categories incorporated in DIINAR.1can be interpreted with this respect.
Moreover, theinvestigation leads to proposing a more consistentorganisation of lexical information and relations,which should be included in future versions ofDIINAR.2 The type of lexical dB required by the auto-matic analysis of ArabicWhat are the fundamental requirements of alexical database in Arabic?
The first challenge tobe met upon endeavouring to build language re-sources in Arabic is that of the structure of thewriting system of the language (Dichy, 1990), thetwo main features of which are: non diacriticizedscript in standard texts (?
2.1) and the structure ofthe word-form (?
2.2).
The combined effect ofthese features entails the need for a lexical data-base that includes a subsequent number of gram-mar-lexis relations (?
2.3).
Such a dB is to beconsidered as a sine qua non condition of high-level and elaborate Arabic NLP.4The research and development work referred to inthe SILAT research group goes back to the 1980ies andhas been going on since (Descl?s et ali 1983, Dichy &Hassoun, eds.
1989, Dichy 1984/89, 1987, 1993, 1997,2000, Lelubre 1993, Braham 1998, Braham & Ghazali1998).
It includes a number of doctoral dissertations(Hassoun 1987, Abu Al-Chay 1988, Dichy, 1990, Gader1992, Ghenima 1998).
For further developments, see:Ezzahid 1996, Labed & Lelubre 1997, Abbas 1998,Dichy & Hassoun 1998, Ammar & Dichy 1999a et b,Abb?s 1999, Dichy 1998, 2001a et b, Ghazali &Braham 2001, Lelubre 2001, Ouersighni 2002, Zaafrani2002, Dichy & Fargali, 2003.5DIINAR.1(DIctionnaire INformatis?
de l?Arabe),Arabic acronym Ma??l?
(?Mu?jam al-?Arabiyya l-??l??
),is a comprehensive Arabic Language dB operating atword-form level (morphological analysis or generation).It has been completed in close cooperation, in Tunis byIRSIT (now SOTETEL-IT - A. Braham and S. Ghazali),and in France by ENSSIB (M. Hassoun) and theLumi?re-Lyon 2 University (J. Dichy).
See Dichy,Braham, Ghazali & Hassoun, 2002.2.1 Non diacriticized writingIt is well-known that Arabic script belongs to agroup of Semitic writings originating from ancientPhoenician alphabets, such as Hebrew, Aramaic orSyriac.
Phonographic translation is basically re-stricted to the notation of consonants and ?longvowels?.
In the course of time, these writing sys-tems have developed additional diacritic symbols,mainly for the needs of the oral reading of sacredtexts (Bible, New Testament, Koran).
Arabic writ-ing has thus been provided with a sophisticatedsystem of diacritical marks (comparable to theMassora diacritics which were later devised for theHebrew Bible).
Standard writing nevertheless dis-regards these symbols.
This results in a high de-gree of homography, accounting for the multipleanalyses encountered in a majority of single wordsby morphological analysers (which are, needless torecall, bound to consider every word off-context).2.2 ?Nucleus?
and ?extensions?
: a quick re-call of the structure of word-forms inwritten ArabicUnlike automatic recognition software, humanreaders are, of course, able to combine semantic,syntactic and morphological analyses.
They arehelped in their reading of Arabic written utterancesby another major feature of the writing system: thevery regular structure of the word-form.
Thisstructure has been introduced and extensively de-scribed previously (Descl?s ed., 1983; Dichy 1984,1990; Hassoun, 1987 ?
after the pioneering workof Cohen, 1961/70), and is only recalled here forthe sake of clarity.Word-forms in Arabic can be described on thewhole as consisting of a nucleus formative (hence-forth NF) to which extension formatives (hence-forth EF) are added, either to the left or to the right(Dichy, 1997).
Ante-positioned EF-s are abbrevi-ated as aEF, and post-positioned ones as pEF.
Thenucleus formative, usually called stem, can be rep-resented in terms of prosodic or non-concatenativemorphology (after J. McCarthy?s original andmuch discussed insights, 1981).
In Semitic mor-phology, the stem is considered, according to asomewhat recent, but very widely followed tradi-tion, as a compound of root and pattern.
One mustkeep in mind, though, that many nouns cannot beanalysed in such a way: they are referred to asquasi-stems (Dichy & Hassoun, eds., 1989).Arabic word-forms consist of:?
proclitics (PCL), which include mono-consonan-tal conjunctions, e.g.
wa-, ?and?
, li-, ?in orderto?, or  prepositions, i.e.
bi-, ?in, at?
or ?by?, etc.;?
a prefix (PRF).
The category, after D. Cohen?srepresentation of the word-form, only includesthe prefixes of the imperfective, e.g., ya-, pre-fixed morpheme of the 3rd person;?
a stem, which can be represented in terms of aROOT (an ordered triple of consonants, or, byextension of the system, a quadruple) and aPATTERN (roughly: a template of syllables, theconsonants of which are the triple of the ROOT towhich monoconsonantal affixes are added).
Thestem takabbar, ?to be haughty?, thus consists ofthe 3-consonant ROOT /k-b-r/ and of thePATTERN /taR1aR2R2aR3/, where R1, R2 and R3stand for ?radical consonant 1, 2, 3?, and are in-stantiated by the triple of the ROOT (R1=k, R2=b,R3=r).
Nouns that cannot be analysed in ROOTand PATTERN are conventionally referred to asquasi-stems, e.g.
: ?ism??
?l, ?Ishmael?, y?n?sk?,?UNESCO?, kahram?n, ?amber?;?
suffixes (SUF), such as verb endings, nominalcases, the nominal feminine ending -at, etc.;?
enclitics (ECL).
In Arabic, enclitics are comple-ment pronouns.In the table below two apparently equivalent rep-resentations of the structure of the Arabic word-form are given.
The main difference between themlies in the fact that (2) aims at highlighting therelations between nucleus and extension forma-tives (NF and EF-s), featuring a triangle (in bold-face below).
The rules governing the relationsbetween morphemes embedded in the word-formare included in a word-formatives grammar(henceforth WFG ?
Dichy, 1987, 1997).
Theserules, and the features they involve, are distributedalong these three relations, a great number ofwhich are related to the lexical nucleus, and haveto rely upon the finite set of grammar-lexis rela-tions operating at word-level (formalised in Dichy,1990).
(1)?Traditional?representationof the word-form (D.Cohen,1961/70, Des-cl?s, ed., 1983)maximal______word-form______|                                             |minimal__word-form__|                            |##PCL # PRF +STEM+ SUF # ECL##STEM = <ROOT?
?PATTERN>(2)Nucleus-extensionsrepresentation(Dichy, 1997)NF/         \aEF   ?
pEF/     \          /     \PCL  PRF   SUF ECLTable 1: Structure of the word-form in Arabic2.3 Word-formatives grammar (WFG) andword-level grammar-lexis relationsComplex as it may appear, the above structure isregular, and remains, up to a certain point,recognisable from a psychological stand.
It is,subsequently, very restrictive: Arabic word-formsinclude one lexical stem and one only6.
In fact, theword-formatives grammar (WFG) accounts for theregular structure of the word-form.Rules involving word-formatives (the above nu-cleus and extension formatives, NF and EF) arebased on three fundamental types of relations(Dichy, 1987):   ?entails?, ?> ?excludes?, ** ?iscompatible with?
(or ?admits?
), the third of whichis attached to the opposed pair of the first two as an?elsewhere?
relation of a special kind, directlyconnected to ambiguity in language analysisprocesses (Dichy, 2000).
In generation, all?compatibility?
(or ?admit?)
relations can in fact berewritten in terms of ?entail?
or ?exclude?
rulesassociated with specific sets of word-formatives.?Compatibility?
relations are mostly useful in theformalisation of recognition rules, when ambiguityis at stake7.
The formal structure of the WFG thusincludes relations of the three types above, whichare, in turn, involved in either one of the twofollowing combination schemes:EF  EF combinations, such as PCL ?
SUFrules, e.g.
:PCL = bi     SUF = {i, in, a, an, ?na, ?, ayni, ay}which can be phrased as: ?the proclitic preposi-tion bi# entails one of the indirect (or genitive)case suffixes?.
Other rules will point to a givencase suffix in a given utterance.NF  EF combinations, such as STEM ?
SUFrules, e.g.
:STEM = ?diptote?
   SUF = {u, a, i}which can be phrased as: ?a stem whose declen-sion is diptote entails case-endings belonging tothe listed set?.
(Diptote stems may also be com-patible with dual or plural suffixes, which istaken into account in another rule.
)Another type of relation to be encoded in a lexi-cal database is:6.
A few exceptive compound items exist, but they arekept marginal by the structure of the language, for theobvious reasons hinted at here, unlike what has hap-pened in Modern Hebrew, as opposed to the Biblicaland Medieval state of the language (Kirtchuk, 1997).7.
Automatic recognition and generation are not to beconsidered as reverse processes.
Evidence from Arabicis given in Descl?s, ed., 1983; Dichy, 1984, 1997, 2000. NF  NF linking combinations, which have tobe encoded whenever the morphological varia-tion is not rule-predictable (cf.
Mel uk?s conceptof syntactic, 1982).
This is the case in a majorityof singular  ?broken plural?
links in nouns oradjectives, as well as in ?perfec-tive?
?imperfective?
(m?d?
 mud?ri?)
links,in verbs belonging to ?simple?
PATTERNS (al-fi?lal-mujarrad).In an Arabic lexical dB, lexical entries (NF-s orSTEMS in the above representation) need to be as-sociated with morphosyntactic specifiers ensuringtheir insertion in word-forms, and their morpho-logical variation (conjugation or declension).
Mor-phosyntactic specifiers, in other words, accountfor:?
grammar-lexis relations, i.e.
NF  EF combina-tions;?
morpho-lexical variation, i.e.
NF  NF linkingcombinations.Lexical entries thus ?entail?, ?exclude?
or ?admit?a number of grammatical morphemes listed in thevarious fields of the word-form as word-forma-tives, either on a non regular basis, or on the basisof rules founded on semantic features that cannotbe deduced from the formal structure of the mor-pheme.
As shown in Dichy (1997), morphosyntac-tic specifiers make up formally, in a lexicaldatabase, for information associated in thespeaker?s memory to various levels of linguisticanalysis (morpho-phonological, syntactic or se-mantic features).This structure has often been disregarded in theelaboration of Arabic lexical databases on the as-sumption that the representation of lexical entriesas a mere combination of PATTERN and ROOT (plusa number of suffixes) is sufficient.
This is defi-nitely not the case: evidence recalled in this para-graph (also in Hassoun & Dichy, eds.
1989, Dichy,1997, Dichy & Fergaly, 2003) show that grammar-lexis relations operating at word-form level canonly be taken into account if information is associ-ated to whole stems (or nuclei), or to stem+suffix?frozen?
compounds.
These relations cannot bepredicted on the sole basis of patterns.The description of the WFG outlined in thisparagraph has led to the elaboration of exhaustiveand finite sets of morphosyntactic specifiers liableto be associated to the non finite lexical entries ofan Arabic database (Dichy, 1997).
These sets havebeen associated with the entries of the DIINAR.1Arabic Language database.
The WFG has been onthe other hand implemented in the related genera-tion and analysis source programs.Another lexical LR including morphosyntacticinformation at word level is the lexicon elaboratedand completed by Timothy Buckwalter, which hasbeen used in the finite-state morphological analy-ser elaborated at the European Xerox ResearchCentre (Meylan, France)8.3 A few figures and ratios from DIINAR.1:generated lexica vs. source lexiconIn the previous section, we outlined the structureof the WFG and the information associated withlexical entries in the source program of theDIINAR.1 database.It is essential to note that the expression lexicaldatabase is ambiguous, i.e.
that it is liable to refer,either:?
to a source program drawing on lists of basiclexical or grammatical items (related to a gram-mar of the kind outlined in the previous section),?
or a set of generated lexica, the items of whichcan be either basic (as in the source program) orcombined, i.e.
resulting from the combination ofbasic items, according to the rules of the word-formatives grammar.Software relying partly or entirely on morpho-logical analysis may, or may not, need all the in-formation outlined in section 2.
They draw onlexica generated by the source program associatedwith the dB (Hassoun, 1987).
Generated lexica canbe restricted to a subset of information, as in aspelling checker (Gader, 1992), or extended to allavailable information, as in a parser (Ouersighni,2002) or in an interactive language teaching soft-ware (Zaafrani, 2002).
In the current section, wewill examine the architecture of the DIINAR.1database, from the standpoint of the relation be-tween the figures of the basic entries included(?
3.1 and 3.2), and that of the inflected word-forms (?
3.3).3.1 The basic figures of the DIINAR.1 sourceprogramThe total number of lemma-entries in theDIINAR.1 database is : 121,522.This includes 445 tool-words belonging to vari-ous grammatical categories (e.g.
: prepositions,conjunctions, etc.)
and the prototype of a propernames database of 1,384 entries.
Both types ofentries are associated with a particular word-for-matives grammar, and with their own subsets ofmorpho-syntactic specifiers.The main parts of the database include:8.
Beesley, 1998, 2001, Beesley and Karttunen, 2003.Also: Buckwalter, 2002.Nouns, including adjectives   29,534[Broken plural nominal forms]    [9,565]Verbs   19,457Deverbals:- infinitive forms (masdar)   23,274- active participles (?ism al-f?
?il)   17,904- passive participles (?ism al-maf?
?l)13,373- ?analogous adjectives?
(sifamusabbaha)5,781- ?nouns of time & place?
(?ismal-mak?n wa-z-zam?n)10,370Total number of deverbals  [70,702]Subtotal of lemmas 119,693Table 2: Number of lemmas and items belongingto main major lexical categories3.2 Comments and critical analysis(1)Table 2 features two ratios of general interest forthe structure of the Arabic general Lexicon:?
The ratio between broken plural nominal forms(which are not counted as lemmas9) and nounsand adjectives is roughly of one to four.?
Deverbals appear to be 3.6 more numerous thanverbs.
(2)The above categorisation follows that of tradi-tional Arabic grammar.
Two sub-categorisationsshould, nevertheless be revisited for linguistic con-sistency reasons:?
Adjectives (although they can appear as nouns inmany syntactic structures) should be isolated.This will be needed, of course, in parsing ?
evenin ?shallow parsing?.
Adjectives in Arabic can beidentified through syntactic tests.?
?Nouns of time and place?
(?asm?
?u l-mak?n wa-z-zam?n) should not, in future versions ofDIINAR, remain in the ?deverbal?
category.They are in fact (except for the earliest stages inthe development of the language) inserted insyntactic structures as full nouns.
(3)It is to be noted, on the other hand, that (exceptfor ?nouns of time and place?)
DIINAR.1 is veryconsistent in distinguishing between nouns anddeverbals: deverbals re-used as nouns, andshowing full nominal features appear, in the dB,9.
?Broken plural?
forms are related to a singularnoun-form lemma.
Links between singular and pluralforms, in the dB, are described as NF NF linkingcombinations (see ?
2.3).twice (as ?deverbals?
and as ?nouns?, with theirrelated morphosyntactic specifiers), e.g.:?
s?kin, plur.
s?kin?n, s?kin?t, ?dwelling?,?inhabiting?, is a deverbal, e.g.
:Nahnu s?kin?na mad?nata al-?iskandariyya =?We live in Alexandria?.?
s?kin, plur.
sukkn (broken plural form), ?inhabi-tant?, is a full noun (appearing in the first line ofTable 2), e.g.
:Nahnu sukk?nu mad?nati l-?iskandariyya = ?Weare the inhabitants of Alexandria?.
(4)The number of roots in DIINAR.1 is 6,546, itbeing understood that a great many nouns cannotbe analysed in ROOT and PATTERN.
(On the otherhand, all the verbs and deverbals of the languagecan ?
Dichy, 1984/89.
)3.3 The DIINAR.1 lexica of inflected word-formsThe number of combined proclitics (which areeffectively in use in Modern Standard Arabic),suffixes, prefixes and enclitics is shown in the ta-bles below:Proclitics (combined) 64Prefixes 8Suffixes (combined) 67Enclitics 13Table 3: Total number of extension forma-tives (EF-s)Associa-ted withnounsAssocia-ted withverbsCommonto bothtypesProclitics 44 13 7Prefixes 0 8 0Suffixes 11 42 0Enclitics 1 1 11Table 4: EF-s associated with nominal and/orverbal stemsIt is easy to imagine, on the basis of the abovetable, that one could generate huge figures throughmultiplying the number of extension formativesamong themselves, then multiplying the result bythe number of nouns and/or verbs.
In order toavoid ?over-powerful?
inflation of data, a consis-tent database needs to be filtered through (a) aword-formatives grammar and (b) morphosyntacticspecifiers associated to stems.The overall figures for inflected forms lexicagenerated by the DIINAR.1 can be broken down asshown in Table 5:aNumberof nucleior stemsbNumber ofinflectedformsb/aratioVerbs19,457 3,060,716 157.3Deverbals70,702 2,909,772 41.15Nouns andadjectives(+brokenplurals)39,099 1,781,316 45.55Gramma-tical words445 --- ---Propernames1,384 11,403 8.23Total figureand ratio131,087 7,774,93859.31Table 5: Inflected word-forms, i.e., ?minimalword-forms?
(see Table 1)3.4 The fundamental ratio between lemma-entries and inflected word-formsHigh as they may seem, the above figures are notover-powerful, and result from stem-by-stem fil-tering of information through morphosyntacticspecifiers and the associated word-formativesgrammar.One can also compare the ratio between the totalnumber of stems and that of inflected forms towhat can be found in another language, which isequally known to be a highly inflected one.
TheXerox Spanish Lexical Transducer contained, in1996 over 46,000 base-forms, and generated over3,400,000 inflected word-forms (Beesley &Karttunen, 2003, p. xvii).
The ratio betweeninflected forms and base-forms in the XeroxSpanish database was then of around 74 to one.
Inthe DIINAR.1 dB, the same ratio is of just under60 to one, which can be considered as reasonable.The question of how many ?maximal word?forms can be correctly generated remains to beintroduced and discussed in a further paper.4 The rationale beyond ratios: towards a firstset of validation criteria for Arabic lexicaThe ratios considered in the present paper are di-vided in two general categories:?
The category encountered in ?
3.2 involvesNF  NF linking combinations (?
2.3):(a) The ratio between the number of noun lem-mas (in general vocabulary) and that of ?bro-ken plurals?
is of 1 ?broken plural?
for every4 nouns.
(b) The overall ratio between verbs anddeverbals gives an average of 3.6 deverbalsfor one verb.?
The ratios given in ?
3.3 and 3.4 consider thenumber of basic entries, such as nouns, verbs,deverbals, etc., and the inflected forms generatedthrough the rules of the WFG and the grammar-lexis relations specifiers included in the dB.
Innouns, the relatively high ratio of 45.55 is due tothe combination of case-endings with other suf-fixes.
In proper names, case-endings are limited,because they do not vary according to definite-ness or indefiniteness, and also because somecategories of proper names are in addition notliable to be followed by the relative suffix ?iyy).In this contribution, the numbers of lemma-en-tries reflect the state of the DIINAR.1 database,which is likely to be modified, in the course oftime, through eliminating lemmas corresponding towords that have fallen out of use or through addingnew entries.
Ratios, on the other hand, reflect theword-formatives grammar as well as the overallstructure of the sets of morpho-syntactic specifiersassociated to lexical entries.
They are, on hewhole, to remain stable.
It is therefore reasonableto consider that they should be added to thelanguage-specific parts of a check-list devised forthe evaluation and validation of Arabic lexicalresources, or of multilingual lexica includingArabic.5 AcknowledgementsThe present work is presented with the supportof the NEMLAR Euro-Mediterranean project (seenote 3).The generated lexica of DIINAR.1 are to bemade available through the European LanguageResources Association (ELRA), and TheEvaluation and Language resources DistributionAgency (ELDA), Paris, http://www.elda.fr.ReferencesWijdan Abbas Mekki.
1998.
D?finition etdescription des unit?s linguistiques intervenantdans l?indexation automatique des textes enarabe, Doct.
Dissert., ENSSIB/Universit?Lyon 2.Ramzi Abb?s.
1999.
Conception d?un prototype deconcordancier de la langue arabe, M?moire deDEA en Sciences de l?information et de lacommunication, ENSSIB.Najim Abu Al-Chay.
1988.
Un Syst?me expertpour l'analyse et la production des verbes arabesdans une perspective d'Enseignement Assist?
parOrdinateur.
Doct.
Dissert., Universit?
Lyon 1.S.
Ammar.
& J. Dichy.
1999a.
Les verbes arabes,Paris, Hatier (collection Bescherelle - Originalintroduction in French).?
1999b.Al-?Af?
?l al-?arabiyya, Paris, Hatier(collection Bescherelle - Original Arabicintroduction).Kenneth Beesley.
1989/91.
?Computer Analysis ofArabic Morphology: A two-level approach withdetours.?
In Bernard Comrie and Mushira Eid,eds., 1991.
Perspectives on Arabic LinguisticsIII: Papers from the Third Annual Symposium onArabic Linguistics, Amsterdam, JohnBenjamins: 155-172.?
2001.
Finite-State Morphological Analysis andGeneration of Arabic at Xerox Research: Statusand Plans in 2001.
In ACL 39th Annual Meeting.Workshop on Arabic Language Processing;Status and Prospect, Toulouse: 1-8.Kenneth Beesley & Lauri Karttunen.
2003.
FiniteState Morphology.
CSLI Publications, Stanford,California.Abdelfattah Braham & Salem Ghazali.
1998.Q?
?idatu l-bay?n?t al-mu?jamiyya al-?arabiyya,?aw masr??
Mu?jam al-?Arabiyya l-??liyy,?Ma?
?l?-DIINAR?, has?la wa-??f?q.
Al-Majalla l-?Arabiyya li-l-?ul?m, 32: 14-23.Tim Buckwalter.
2002.
Buckwalter ArabicMorphological Analyzer Version 1.0.
LinguisticData Consortium, catalog number LDC2002L49and ISBN 1-58563-257-0.
<http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2002L49 >David Cohen.
1961/70.
?Essai d'une analyseautomatique de l'arabe?.
T.A.
informations, 1961.Reprod.
in D. Cohen.
1970.
?tudes delinguistique s?mitique et arabe.
Paris, Mouton:49-78.Jean-Pierre Descl?s, ed.
1983.
(H. Abaab, J.-P.Descl?s, J. Dichy, D.E.
Kouloughli, M.S.Ziadah).
Conception d'un synth?tiseur et d'unanalyseur morphologiques de l'arabe, en vued'une utilisation en Enseignement assist?
parOrdinateur, Rapport r?dig?
sous la direction deJ.-P. Descl?s, ?
la demande du Minist?re fran?aisdes Affaires ?trang?res (sous-direction de laPolitique linguistique).Joseph Dichy.
1984/89.
?Vers un mod?le d?analyseautomatique du mot graphique non-vocalis?
enarabe?, in Dichy & Hassoun, 1989: 92-158.?
1987.
?The SAMIA Research Program, YearFour, Progress and Prospects?.
ProcessingArabic Report 2, T.C.M.O., NijmegenUniversity: 1-26.?
1990.
L?
?criture dans la repr?sentation de lalangue : la lettre et le  mot en arabe.
State Doct.Dissert.
th?se d?
?tat (en linguistique), Universit?Lumi?re-Lyon 2.?
1993.
?Knowledge-system simulation and thecomputer-aided learning of Arabic verb-formsynthesis and analysis?.
Processing ArabicReport 6/7, T.C.M.O., Nijmegen University: 67-84, 92-95.?
1997.
?Pour une lexicomatique de l?arabe :l?unit?
lexicale simple et l?inventaire fini dessp?cificateurs du domaine du mot?.
Meta 42,spring 1997, Qu?bec, Presses de l?Universit?
deMontr?al: 291-306.?
1998.
?M?moire des racines et m?moire desmots : le lexique stratifi?
de l?arabe?.
T.Baccouche, A. Clas et S. Mejri, eds., LaM?moire des mots.
Special issue of: RevueTunisienne de Sciences Sociales, 117: 93-107.?
2000.
?Morphosyntactic Specifiers to beassociated to Arabic Lexical Entries -Methodological and Theoretical Aspects?.Proceedings of the ACIDA?
2000 conference,Monastir (Tunisia), 22-24 March 2000, Corporaand Natural Language Processing vol.
: 55-60.?
2001a.
?Une premi?re classification des verbesarabes en fonction de leur structured?arguments?.
A. Fassi Fehri, ed., Actes ducolloque international G?n?ration Syst?matiquede la langue et Traduction automatique, (Rabat,15-17 novembre 1999).
Special issue of:Recherches Linguistiques, IERA, May 2001,vol.
2 : 39-70.?
2001b.
?On lemmatization in Arabic.
A formaldefinition of the Arabic entries of multilinguallexical databases?.
ACL 39th Annual Meeting.Workshop on Arabic Language Processing;Status and Prospect, Toulouse: 23-30.J.
Dichy, A. Braham, S. Ghazali, M. Hassoun.2002.
La base de connaissances linguistiquesDIINAR.1 (DIctionnaire INformatis?
de l?Arabe,version 1), Proceedings of the InternationalSymposium on The Processing of Arabic, Tunis(La Manouba University), 18-20 April 2002.J.
Dichy & Ali Fargaly.
2003.
Roots & Patterns vs.Stems plus Grammar-Lexis Specifications: onwhat basis should a multilingual lexical databasecentred on Arabic be built?
IXth MachineTranslation Summit (New-Orleans, Sept. 23-27,2003), Proceedings of the Workshop on MachineTranslation for Semitic Languages: Issues andApproaches: 1-8J.
Dichy & M.O.
Hassoun, eds.
1989.
Simulationde mod?les linguistiques et Enseignement Assist?par Ordinateur de l'arabe - Travaux SAMIA I.Paris, Conseil International de la LangueFran?aise.J.
Dichy & M.O.
Hassoun.
1998.
Some aspects ofthe DIINAR-MBC research programme?.
In A.Ubaydly, ed., 1998: 2.8.1-6.Everhard Ditters, ed.
1986-1995.
ProcessingArabic Report 1 (1986), 2 (1987), 3 (1988), 4(1989), 5 (1990), 6/7 (1993), 9 (1995), Institutefor the Languages and Cultures of the Middle-East., Nijmegen University.Samia Ezzahid.
1996.
M?thodologie d?
?laborationd?une base de donn?es lexicale de l?arabe(vocabulaire g?n?ral) d?apr?s la th?orie Sens-Texte d?Igor Mel?cuk.
Doct.
diss.
Universit?Lyon 2.Bernard Fradin.
1994.
L'approche ?
deux niveauxen morphologie computationnelle et lesd?veloppements r?cents de la morphologie?, inB.
Fradin, ed., Morphologie computationnelle,T.A.L., 35, 1994-2, Paris, ATALA: 9-48.Nabil Gader.
1992.
Conception et r?alisation d?unprototype de correcteur orthographique del?arabe.
M?moire de DEA en Sciences del?information et de la communication, ENSSIB.Salem Ghazali & Abdelfattah Braham.
2001.?Dictionary Definitions and Corpus-BasedEvidence in Modern Standard Arabic?.
In ACL39th Annual Meeting.
Workshop on ArabicLanguage Processing; Status and Prospect,Toulouse: 51-57.Malek Ghenima.
1998.
Analyse morpho-syntaxiqueen vue de la voyellation assist?e par ordinateurdes textes ?crits en arabe.
Doct.
dissert.,ENSSIB/Universit?
Lyon 2.Mohamed Hassoun.
1987.
Conception d'undictionnaire pour le traitement automatique del'arabe dans diff?rents contextes d'application.State doct.
dissert., Universit?
Lyon 1.Pablo Kirtchuk.
1997.
Renouvellementgrammatical, renouvellement lexical etrenouvellement conceptuel en s?mitique, in C.Boisson & Ph.
Thoiron, eds, 1997, Autour de lad?nomination, Presses Universitaires de Lyon:41-69.Lamia Labed & Xavier Lelubre.
1997.
?DIINAR-TOPT: conception d?une base de donn?esterminologique Arabe/fran?ais dans le domainede l?optique?.
In JST?97: 1?res JST FRANCIL1997: L?ing?nierie de la langue : de la rechercheau produit, Avignon, 15-16 avril 1997, Aupelf-Uref/Francil: 523-8.Xavier Lelubre.
1993.
?Courseware for the theoryand practice of Arabic conjugation?.
ProcessingArabic Report, 6/7, TCMO, NijmegenUniversity: 85-89 and 92-95.?
2001.
?A Scientific Arabic Terms Data Base:Linguistic Approach for a Representation ofLexical and Terminological Features?.
In ACL39th Annual Meeting.
Workshop on ArabicLanguage Processing; Status and Prospect,Toulouse: 66-72.Igor Mel uk.
1982.
Towards a Language ofLinguistics, A System of Formal Notions forTheoretical Morphology, M?nchen : WilhemFink Verlag.Riadh Ouersighni.
2002.
La conception et lar?alisation d?un syst?me d?analyse morpho-syntaxique robuste pour l?arabe : utilisationpour la d?tection et le diagnostic des fautesd?accord.
Doct.
dissert., ENSSIB/Universit?Lyon 2.SAMIA [Research Group].
1984.
?EnseignementAssist?
par Ordinateur de l'arabe.
Simulation ?l'aide d'un mod?le linguistique, la morphologie?.Actes du Colloque ?E.A.O.
84?, (Lyon, 4-5septembre 1984), Paris, Agence del'informatique: 81-96.Ahmad Ubaydly, ed.
1998.
Proceedings of the 6thInternational Conference and Exhibition onMultilingual Computing (ICEMCO 98), Centreof Middle Eastern Studies, University ofCambridge.Riadh Zaafrani.
2002.
D?veloppement d?unenvironnement interactif d?apprentissage avecordinateur de l?arabe langue ?trang?re.
Doct.dissert., ENSSIB/Universit?
Lyon 2.
