Zone Identification in Biology Articles as a Basis for Information ExtractionYoko MIZUTA and Nigel COLLIERNational Institute of Informatics2-1-2 Hitotsubashi, Chiyoda-ku,Tokyo, Japan, 101-8430{ymizuta, collier}@nii.ac.jpAbstractInformation extraction (IE) in the biomedicaldomain is now regarded as an essentialtechnique for the dynamic management offactual information contained in archived journalarticles and abstract collections.
We aim toprovide a technique serving as a basis for pin-pointing and organizing factual informationrelated to experimental results.
In this paper, weenhance the idea proposed in (Mizuta andCollier, 2004); annotating articles in terms ofrhetorical zones with shallow nesting.
We give aqualitative analysis of the zone identification(ZI) process in biology articles.
Specifically, weillustrate the linguistic and other features of eachzone based on our investigation of articlesselected from four major online journals.
Wealso discuss controversial cases and nested zones,and ZI using multiple features.
In doing so, weprovide a stronger theoretical and practicalsupport for our framework toward automatic ZI.1 IntroductionInformation extraction (IE) in the biomedicaldomain is now regarded as an essential techniquefor utilizing information contained in archivedjournal articles and abstract collections such asMEDLINE.
Major domain databases often containincomplete and inconsistent results.
Also, amajority of the reported experimental results areonly available in unstructured full-text format.These being combined, scientists need to checkwith source journal articles to obtain and confirmfactual information.
Furthermore, they often needto start with document retrieval and face anoverwhelming number of candidate articles.
Thus,the significance of dynamic management of factualinformation, specifically an integration and updateof experimental results, is self-evident.
It wouldnot only save researchers much time used forretrieval and redundant experiments but also helpthem use the information more effectively.
Giventhe limitations of manual work in terms of bothefficiency and accuracy, IE focusing on factualinformation is of critical importance.Researches in bioNLP have made majorprogress mainly in the extraction of bio-namedentity biological interactions (e.g.
Craven et al1999; Humphreys et al, 2000; Tanabe et al, 2002).But further progress aimed at pin-pointing andorganizing factual information remains a challenge.We aim to provide a basis for this purpose.
Asthe first step, we proposed in (Mizuta and Collier,2004) annotating biology texts in terms ofrhetorical zones with a shallow nesting, andprovided an annotation scheme.
In this paper, weexplore a qualitative analysis of zone identification(ZI) in biology articles and provide strongersupport for our framework toward automaticannotation of zones.
Specifically we; 1) illustratethe linguistic and other features of each zone,which have been extracted through our pilot studyof a total of 20 articles randomly selected fromfour major online journals (EMBO, PNAS, NARand JCB), 2) discuss controversial cases for ZI andnested annotation to elaborate the scheme, 3)discuss multiple features relevant to ZI, and 4)summarize the investigation and outline futuresteps related to machine learning and applications.Previous work on rhetorical analysis of scientificarticles focus on either; 1) hierarchical discourserelations between sentences (e.g.
Mann andThompson, 1987), 2) genre analysis within adescriptive framework (e.g.
Swales 1990), or 3) ZIin a flat structure and a statistical evaluation of theannotation scheme from a machine learningperspective (e.g.
Teufel and Moens, 2002).
Wefollow the lines of (Teufel and Moens, 2002) andapply ZI to the domain of biology.
But ourapproach is unique in that we focus onexperimental results and on a qualitative analysisof ZI as a basis for automatic ZI.2 Overview of the framework2.1 The need for zone identification (ZI)We discuss below the critical issues in bioNLPinvolved in pin-pointing and organizing factualinformation and show how ZI can be applied.First, articles provide information in variousrhetorical statuses (e.g.
new vs. old results; own vs.previous work).
Current IE relies on surface lexical29and syntactic patterns, neglecting the rhetoricalstatus of information.
Thus, we are in danger ofextracting old results mixed with new ones.
(1) Recent data suggest that ?
~ is involved inDPC removal in mammalian cells (ref.
), ?
?The data presented here suggest that ?The data  (1) provide statements in differentrhetorical statuses (boldfaced by us).
Preprocessingthe text in terms of such information helps filterout old results (i.e.
the first statement).Secondly, so far the scope of bioNLP largelybear on abstracts.
But arguably, the final goalshould be full texts, given their much richersources of information and the increasing ease ofaccess (e.g.
open access to collections such asPUBMED-central; online journals such as EMBO,PNAS, and JCB).
This involves exploring newtechniques because there are some essentialdifferences from abstracts.
Among others, full textspresent much more complexity in the sentencestructure and vocabulary (e.g.
inserted phrases,embedded sentences, nominalization of verbs,more anaphoric expressions).
Thus, we expect thatthe analysis of the whole text requires a muchmore complex set of patterns and algorithms, 1resulting in errors.
A solution to this problem is toidentify the subset of the article relevant to furtheranalysis at issue.
For example, in order to extractcertain kinds of biological interactions found bythe author, we could skip statements aboutprevious work as seen in the Introduction section.Thirdly, experimental results make sense in theirrelation to the experimental goal and procedure.Also, there are usually a sequence of experimentsperformed, each of which obtains complex results.Therefore, it is important to extract a set ofexperimental results in an organized manner.
Thisalso helps identify the reference of demonstratives(e.g.
this) and pronouns (e.g.
it).From these points of view, ZI in articles plays anessential role in extracting factual information ofdifferent sorts from different zone classes.2.2 Characteristics of the frameworkThe idea underlying ZI in our sense contrastswith other, discourse relations-based notions (e.g.Mann et al 1987; Kando 1999; van Dijk, 1980);we focus on the global type of information.
Forexample, in our ZI, reference to previous work asbackground information remains as such whether itis supported or refuted by the author later in thearticle, whereas this difference plays an essentialrole in discourse relations-based analyses.1 A. Koike (at AVIRG 2004) reported that to extractthe interactions between two biological elements fromPUBMED abstracts, about 400 patterns were necessary.The larger picture we have consists of 2 levels;1) ZI, and 2a) analysis of zone interactions (e.g.discourse relations), or 2b) analysis on specificzones (i.e.
extraction of biological interactions).
Inthis paper we focus on the first step.2.3 Annotation schemeOur annotation scheme is proposed in (Mizuta etal., 2004), based on Teufel et al?s (2002) scheme.Three major modifications are made; 1) a fine-grained OWN class based on the model of anexperimental procedure which we identified acrossjournals, 2) CNN and DFF classes to cover therelations between data/findings, and 3) nestedannotation.
The set of zone classes is as follows:?
BKG (Background): given information(reference to previous work or a generallyaccepted fact)?
PBM (Problem-setting): the  problem to besolved; the goal of the present work/paper.?
OTL (Outline): a characterization/ summary ofthe content of the paper.?
TXT (Textual): section organization of the paper(e.g.
?Section 3 describes our method?).?
OWN: the author?s own work:?
MTH (Method): experimental procedure;?
RSL (Result): the results of the experiment;?
INS (Insight): the author?s insights and findingsobtained from experimental results (includingthe interpretation) or from previous work?
IMP (Implication): the implications ofexperimental results (e.g.
conjectures,assessment, applications, future work) or thoseof previous work?
ELS (Else): anything else within OWN.?
CNN (Connection): correlation or consistencybetween data and/or findings.?
DFF (Difference): a contrast or inconsistencybetween data and/or findings.The basic annotation unit is a sentence, but insome cases it may be a phrase.
In light of thosecases which fit into multiple zones, we employ 2-level annotation.
Empirical analysis indicates thateven though zone classes are conceptually non-overlapping, an annotation unit may fit intomultiple classes.
That is, a linguistic unit (e.g.
asentence) may well represent complex concepts.Therefore, we consider that nested annotation isnecessary, even though it complicates annotation.3 Zone identification -1: Main features ofeach zoneBased on our sample annotation of full texts, wediscuss the major features extracted from the data30of each zone class.
Complex cases and the locationof zones will be discussed in later sections.3.1 BACKGROUND (BKG)(1) In cells, DNA is tightly associated with ?
(2) Ref.
suggested/ suggests that ~(3) A wide variety of restriction-modification (R-M) systems have been discovered ?.BKG has three tense variations; 1) simplepresent for a generic statement about backgroundinformation (e.g.
biological facts; reference toprevious work), 2) simple past, and 3) presentperfect, to mention the current relevance ofprevious work.
A wider range of verbs are used tocover both biological and bibliographical facts.Citations in the sentence-final position having asits scope the whole sentence signal BKG, but inter-sentential citations having a smaller scope do not.3.2 PROBLEM SETTING (PBM )There are two types of PBM.
(2) X has not been established/addressedthere has been no study on Xlittle is currently known about ~there are very limited data concerning XX remain unclearThe first type as illustrated above is observed inthe I-section2; it addresses the problem to solve.
Ithas a ?negative polarity?
in that it mentionssomething missing in the current situation (e.g.knowledge, study, a research question).
It containsvocabulary expressing negation or incompleteness(boldfaced).
Tense variation is either simplepresent or present perfect, depending on thetemporal interval referred to.
The range of verbsused has not been analyzed yet.
(3) To test {whether ~ / this hypothesis/?
},To evaluate X; To address the question of XThe second type of PBM is observed in the R-section.
As illustrated in (3), it corresponds to a to-phrase appearing sentence-initially or finally.
It iscombined with a description of experimentalprocedure, as illustrated in (8).The two types of PBM are both related to a goaldescription.
The first type concerns the whole workand the second type its subset (i.e.
an experiment).3.3 OUTLINE (OTL)(4) We report here the results of experiments?.
Inbrief, we have asked, ?
To address the firstquestion, we utilized ?
We found ?
Together,these results not only confirm that ?.
but alsothat?
(End of the I-section)2 In what follows, I-, M-, R-, and D- section stand forIntroduction, Method and Materials, Results, andDiscussion sections, respectivelyOTL provides a concise characterization of (oran ?excerpts?
from) the work as an abstract does.
(5)  [Introduction Body Conclusion]full-text articleThe rhetorical scheme of the whole article isanalyzed as (5).
OTL has as its scope ?Body?, andthus it is expected to appear either in Introductionor Conclusion.
This conforms to our investigation.Tense choices are between simple present andfuture (in Introduction), and between presentperfect and simple past (in Conclusion).The first element of (4) signals the beginning ofan OTL zone.
By itself it would fit into AIM (ofthe paper) employed in (Teufel et al, 2002).
Itcontains certain kind of linguistic signals such as:3(6) Indexicals:e.g.
in this paper; in the present study; here?Reporting verbs?
or verbs for presentation:e.g.
we show/ demonstrate/ present/ reportHowever, OTL consists of a wider range ofsentences.
As illustrated in (4), OTL also containsthose elements which provide information relevantto other zones (e.g.
PBM, MTH and RSL).
Weconsider that the whole sequence of sentences in(4) deserve an independent class from boththeoretical and practical perspectives.
That is, it isembedded in a reporting context, and providesabstract-like information.
Thus, we propose OTL.3.4 TEXTUAL (TXT)TXT zones were not observed in our sample.This makes sense because the journals investigatedprovide a rigid section format.
However, we retainthis class for future application to other journalswhich may provide a more flexible section format.3.5 METHOD (MTH)(7) we performed X , using ?
; we exploited thepresence of ~; we utilized sucrose-gradientfractionation; X was normalizedMTH takes the form of an event description inthe past tense, using matrix verbs expressing theexperimental procedure (e.g.
perform, examine,use, collect, purify).
Either a passive or an activeform (with we as its semantic subject) is used.
(8) [To test ~,] PBM  [we performed ~] MTH.We observed that a paragraph in the R-sectionstarts with a combination of PBM and MTH asillustrated in (8).
It is much more common forPBM to come first.
This can be explained in termsof ?iconicity?, the phenomenon that the conceptualand/or the real world ordering of elements is oftenreflected in linguistic expressions.
In (8), the PBM3 For a more comprehensive set of expressions, see,for example, (Swales, 1990) and (Teufel et al, 2002).31portion (to-phrase) is preposed conforming to thefact that the author first had the experimental goal.3.6 RESULT (RSL)(9) the distribution of ~ was shifted from ?
;no significant change was seen;cells ?
demonstrated an enrichment in ~RSL usually describes an event in the past tense,as MTH does, using a certain set of verbsexpressing; 1) phenomena (e.g.
represent, showand demonstrate,  having as its subject the materialused), 2) observations (e.g.
observe, recognize andsee, having we as its subject, or in the passiveform), or 3)  biological processes (e.g.
mutate,translate, express, often in the passive form).
(10) the distribution of ~ is shifted from ?no significant change is seencells devoid of Scp160p demonstrates ~~ are presented in Table 2.As illustrated above, RSL, unlike MTH, mayalso be written in the present tense to create acontext in which the author observes and presentsthe results real-time,  referring to figures.In the R-section, RSL zones were observed tofollow MTH with no discourse connectives.However, the boundary was rather easy to identify,by virtue of a cause-effect relation identified.Specifically, matrix verbs used in these zonesplayed a critical role; some of them present a rathercomplementary distribution.
This feature is usefulfor machine learning too.4MTH and RSL may be combined by resulted in:(11) [Parallel ?
transcription reactions using?]
MTHresulted in [?
strong smears. ]
RSLHowever, result in is usually observed in relatingbiological events, and the above usage relating amethod and results is found uncommon.
Also, theexplicit use of result(s) as below is uncommon:(12) The results, ?
?, were striking.
First, ?Given these, keyword searches using result(s) donot work for the purpose of identifyingexperimental results.
In contrast, RSL zones can beidentified using features such as matrix verbs andlocation.
Thus, annotating RSL zones is important.
(13) Interestingly/ Surprisingly/ Noticeably/?,In a RSL zone, empathetic expressions as in (13)may be used, often sentence-initially, to call thereader?s attention.
The adjective version (e.g.striking in (12)) is also used.4 The occurrences in MTH/ RSL in our sample were:perform 38/2, use 181/12, collect 10/1, purify 23/2,observe 1/43, reduce 1/15, affect 1/15, associate 6/25.However, some verbs had a rather neutral distribution(e.g.
detect 11/13, follow 26/8).
Such cases require theuse of other features too, as we will discuss later on.3.6.1 INSIGHT (INS)We have identified three major patterns for INS.The examples below illustrate the first pattern:(14) [As can be seen in Figure 2C, ?
was notsignificantly different compared with that inFigure 2A,]RSL [indicating that ?
had noappreciable effect on ?.]
INS(15) [Interestingly, central ZYG-9 was significantlyreduced in ?
embryos ?
?In the converseexperiment, ?
was observed in embryos?.
]RSL[These results suggest that ?-tublin is requiredto assemble centrosomes ??]
INSThese are conventionalized forms which the authoruses in stating his/her interpretation of the resultswith respect to a biological process behind theobserved results.
A generalization is:5(16) X indicate Y        (a variant: X, indicating Y  )X: results/experiments/studies,Y: biological statement or model,Verb variations from our sample:indicate/suggest/demonstrate/represent/reveal.The second pattern is a sentence using the verbseem/ appear or consider such as:(17) X seem/appear to V (It seems/ appears that ~)X is considered to VThe third pattern is the use of confirm/ support:(18) This was confirmed, as shown in Figure 3.Here, this refers to the author?s hypothesis.Although (18) refers to a figure which shows theresult, the sentence does not fit into RSL but intoINS.
We consider that it describes the author?sinterpretation of the result and that the hypothesisis now licensed as an insight.
A generalization is:(19) X confirm that Y;  Y was confirmed.X: results/experiments/studiesY: proposition (hypothesis or prediction).As we will discuss later, confirm also signalsCNN, relating two things (X and Y).
Therefore, ittriggers a nested annotation for INS and CNN.3.7 IMPLICATION (IMP)The IMP class is used as a cover category for theauthor?s ?weaker?
insights from experimentalresults and for other kinds of implication of thework (e.g.
assessment, applications, future work).
(20) Fusion of ?of type III enzymes, ?, wouldresult in  type IIG enzymes?
(21) We speculate that as ~  lose ?, ~ increases.?Weaker?
insights (vs. ?regular?
insights fittinginto INS) are signaled by; 1) modal expressions5 In our data, suggest occurred mainly in INS (63%)and BKG (23%), and indicate in INS(55%), RSL(20%)and MTH (10%).
This means that these verbs stronglysignal INS but other features are also needed for ZI (e.g.location, zone sequence, and the subject of the verb).32(e.g.
could, may, might, be possible, one possibilityis that) and 2) verbs related to conjecture (e.g.speculate, hypothesize), as in the examples above.
(22) These data are significant because ?
(23) This approach has the potential to increase ?
(24) ~ provides structural insights into ~Assessment is signaled by weak linguistic cluesas illustrated in (22) - (24) above.
(25) Potential targets also remain to be studied;we do not yet know(26) Further experiments will focus on ~;a future study/work/challenge?Taken out of context, IMP mentioning futurework look very similar to PBM as in (25), unless itcontains key words such as future and further, as in(26).
The critical feature for the distinctionbetween them is the section in which they appear.3.8 ELSE (ELS)We found only few cases of ELS in our data.The following is an example (a naming statement).
(27)  ?, we refer to this gene as gip-1 and ~ as ?The lack of ELS zone in our data indicates thatthe domain of experimental biology has a moreestablished methodology and that the focus is onthe experiments and the findings obtained.
In otherdomains where the methodology is lessstandardized (e.g.
computer science), we wouldexpect some essential cases fitting into ELS (e.g.the author?s proposal and invention) and thusfurther elaboration of classes would be needed.3.9 DIFFERENCE (DFF)(28) [ [ These effects are significantly differentfrom the effects caused by ?
]DFF ] RSL(29) [ [ Our structural results differ somewhat fromthe previous proposal (ref.)
and ?
]DFF ]INSAs in (28) and (29), DFF is signalled by a limitedset of vocabulary (mainly, different and contrastand their variants).
Also, as illustrated above, DFFoften overlaps with other classes (e.g.
INS, IMP,RSL), and therefore involves nested annotation.3.10 CONNECTION (CNN)(30) This conservation further supports theirputative regulatory role in exon skipping.
(31) this peroxide treatment experiment wasconsistent with previous data(32) The results also confirm the recent discovery ofMntH ?
(ref).
(33) This conclusion was supported not only by?
but also by ?The CNN class covers statements mentioningconsistency (i.e.
some sort of positive relation)between data/findings.
A generalization is:(34) X is consistent with Y ; X conform to YX is {similar to/ same as?Y ; X support YX/Y: previous work, the author?s observation,model, hypothesis, insight, etc.
(35) X.
Similarly, Y.
(X/Y: a proposition)The specific relation mentioned shows a variety(e.g.
correlation or similarity; support for theauthor?s own or other?s data/ idea/ findings).
6Interestingly, we observed more CNN zonesthan DFF zones in our sample (Mizuta et al, 2004),and we consider that this is not accidental; thisasymmetry indicates that biologists put more focuson correlation between two elements.74 Zone identification -2: elaboration4.1 Nested zones for complex conceptsThe following examples illustrate complex zonesmotivating nested annotation:(36)  [ [Similar DNA links were also observed in thecomplexes with ?
(ref.
), which show structuralsimilarities with?.]
CNN  ] RSL(37) [ [Previous 113Cd NMR studies on ?
indicatedthat zinc plays a catalytic role.
]BKG [Accordingto the mechanism we propose, Zn2+ plays acrucial role only in?.
]INS ]DFF [Anotherdifference from the previous proposal is?
]DFFSentence (36) provides a result and compares itwith other results (boldfaced).
Thus, the sentencefits into RSL and CNN simultaneously; it is a caseof combined zones, conceptually distinct fromindeterminacy between two zones.
Sentence (37)illustrates an example of nested zones.
The firsttwo sentences fit into BKG and INS respectively.Also, they contrast with each other, with respect tothe role which zinc is claimed to play, deserving ofDFF as a whole (but there is no explicit clue at thispoint).
The key word in the third sentence, anotherdifference (boldfaced)  licenses the sentence toDFF and also indicates an element referring to adifference already mentioned.
Accordingly the firsttwo sentences will be annotated for DFF.Precisely speaking, combined zones and nestedzones are not identical.
But we treat combinedzones as a special case of nesting, as two zoneshaving the same scope and an arbitrary ordering.Importantly, nested zones (in a wider sense) areconceptually distinct from ambiguity between twozones; the sentences simultaneously fit into6  DFF and CNN classes cover a wide range ofrelations between data and findings.7  This insight was checked with a biologist.
Thisasymmetry also suggests the essential differencebetween the biology and the computer science domains.In the scheme by (Teufel et al, 2002) focusing oncomputer science articles, CONTRAST seems to bemore important than BASIS.33multiple zones.
In fact, in our sample, most CNNand DFF zones overlap with another zone such asINS and IMP.
Since CNN and DFF zones areimportant for our purpose, we consider that nestedannotation is necessary.4.2 Controversial cases(38) However, it was not evident whether DPCscomposed of ?
were ?
or protelyticdegradation was involved in the process.A PBM zone (in I-section) and an IMP zonedescribing future work (or limitations) often lookvery similar on the surface, as illustrated in (38),which is the last sentence in the article describingthe limitation of the work presented.
A criticalfeature is the location; PBM in this use is locatedin the I-section, whereas IMP in other sections.A PBM zone in I-section (e.g.
X remainsunclear) is considered to be a subset of a largerBKG zone when the problem mentioned is agenerally accepted fact.
However, we chose toavoid nested annotation in this case, because; 1)the situation above is rather common, and yet 2)we identify the significance of PBM zone in itsown.
In case a single sentence consists of a clausefitting into BKG and another fitting into PBM,then it will result in a complex annotation.
That is,we annotate the sentence as both BKG and PBM.5 Zone identification -3: locationWe now analyze the zones appearing in eachsection and their sequence, to try to describe thelocations where a specific zone class may appear.The section organization of the sample articles ismapped onto the scheme shown in (5) as follows:8(39) [IIntro [M R D(non-final)]Body D(final) Conc]In what follows, I, M, R, and D stand for thecorresponding section.5.1 I-section and M-sectionCommon to all sample articles, the I-sectionconsists of a large number of BKG zones with afew PBM zones inserted in it, which is thenfollowed by an OTL zone.
The OTL zone may ormay not constitute a separate paragraph.The M-section focuses on methodological details,and thus consists of MTH zones possibly with anignorable number of other zones (e.g.
BKG, INS).5.2 R-sectionThe R-section consists of ?problem-solving?units following the experimental procedure.
Themain elements of each unit are PBM, MTH, andRSL zones, which are often then followed by an8  Or, [IIntro [R D(non-final) M ]Body D(final) Conc]INS zone.
There are also some optional elements.A generalization of the zone patterns is as follows.For practical reasons, we use the regularexpression style; superscripts + and * stand for theoccurrence of one (+) / zero (*) or more times.Brackets represent OR-relation.
(40) ( X*  PandM  MTH+  (RSL  INS*  IMP*)* )+X:  an arbitrary zone, andPandM = [ (PBM MTH)  (MTH PBM) ]Below are examples of an optional zone (X)placed at the beginning a problem-solving unit:9(41) [It is possible that ?
]IMP [To test thispossibility,]PBM [we examined ?]
MTH(42) [... has revealed two motifs (Fig.
1).
As can beseen in Figure 1A, ??.
]RSL [To ascertain that?.
]PBM [ we aligned their weight ?
]MTH5.3 D-sectionThe D-section is much more complex andflexible, but some generalization is possible.First, the essential components of D-section,both quantitatively and qualitatively, are INS andIMP zones.
This indicates that the focus of D-section is on obtaining deeper insights.
In contrastwith the zone sequence in the R-section, INS andIMP often precede, or even lack, RSL and BKGzones related to them.
A closer look at examplesexplains the apparent lack of  RSL/BKG:(43) The data within this report demonstrate?
(44) As for the C-rich element, its comparison withthe PTB binding motif has shown that these aredifferent motifs.
(45) Similarly, the failure of ... protein (Fig.
7)suggests that...The italicized elements in (43) - (45) would fit intoRSL or MTH, but are too small constituents to beannotated.
As a result, only the whole sentencegets annotated as INS.
A similar tendency holdsalso for BKG (e.g.
since-clause), but lessfrequently.
We may consider extracting these casesin future work.
Usually D-section ends with OTL(summary) or IMP (assessment or future work).6 Zone identification using multiple featuresTable 1 illustrates multiple features contributingto ZI, as we identified them through our manualannotation.
We observed that certain pairs of zoneclasses  present similar distribution of key features,with the same primary feature, and that BKG lacksa key feature, indicating its neutral nature.
Usingmultiple features is critical in ZI.
We intend to9  We observe that these paragraph-initial zonestrigger the PBM zone.
For example, this in (41) refers tothe preceding IMP zone, and the RSL in (42) mentionsthe results of a preceding experiment.34improve our insight shown here throughquantitative analysis (cf.
fn.
3 and 4).
It then betterhelps determine the right set of features and theirrelative priority to be used in machine learning.Feature\ Zone  B   P  O   M R  INS IMP  CNN DFFlexical/syntactic -   ??
-  -  ?
?
?
?matrix verb -   ??
??
-      -        -     -location -   ??
???
?
?
?zone sequence -   ??
???
?
?
?reference to Fig x   -   -   ??
x    x        x    xcitation ?
-   -    -  x   x    x       ?
?Table 1: Multiple features for ZIExplanatory notes on the priority of features:?
: primary feature (with specific clues);?
: major feature;  ?
: secondary featurex:  negative feature;  -: non-/less informative7 ConclusionWe have provided a qualitative analysis of theprocess and results of ZI based on our hand-annotated sample, with a view to strengthening thebasis for the annotation scheme.
We are nowstarting to use our sample as training data formachine learning, as well as creating more data ina systematic way, toward automatic annotation.We are also considering to use our ontologymanagement tool (Open Ontology Forge,http://research.nii.ac.jp/~collier/resources/OOF/index.htm) for these purposes; 1) to define zoneclasses as ontology classes; zone annotation is thenexpected to be a variant of named entity annotation,which we are familiar with, and 2) to link betweenexpressions referring to results (e.g.
these results/our results) and their antecedent (i.e.
the RSL zoneproviding a concrete description of theexperimental results), using the coreference tool.Applications include full color representation ofannotated texts; a sample is available at:http://research.nii.ac.jp/~collier/projects/ZAISA/index.htm.
Also, IR focusing on particular zoneclasses should improve the quality of retrieval.Specifically, the goal of the experiment (a PBMzone) is expected to be used as an index for theorganization and retrieval of experimental results.AcknowledgementsWe gratefully acknowledge the kind support ofour colleague Tony Mullen with the quantitativeanalysis of the data, the generous support ofProfessor Asao Fujiyama (NII) and the fundingfrom the BioPortal project, and the very helpfulcomments from the three anonymous reviewers.ReferencesM.
Craven and J. Kumlien.
1999.
Constructingbiological knowledge bases by extractinginformation from text sources.
In Proceedings ofthe 7th Intl.
Conference on Intelligent Systemsfor Molecular Biology (ISMB?99).D.K.
Farkas.
1999.
The logical and rhetoricalconstruction of procedural discourse.
TechnicalCommunications, 43(1): 42-53.K.
Humphreys, G. Demetriou and R. Gaizauskas.2000.
Two applications of information extractionto biological science journal articles: Enzymeinteractions and protein structures.
InProceedings of the 5th Pacific Symposium onBiocomputing (PSB2000).A.
Lehman.
1999.
Text structuration leading to anautomatic summary system.
InformationProcessing and Management, 35(2):181-191.W.C.
Mann and S.A. Thompson.
1987.
Rhetoricalstructure theory: toward a functional theory oftext organization.
Text, 8(3):243-281.D.
Marcu and A. Echihabi.
2002.
An unsupervisedapproach to recognizing discourse relations.
InProceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Y.
Mizuta and N. Collier.
2004.
An AnnotationScheme for a Rhetorical Analysis of BiologyArticles.
In Proceedings of the Fourth Intl.Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC2004).C.D.
Paice and P.A.
Jones.
1993.
Theidentification of important concepts in highlystructured technical papers.
In Proceedings of the16th Intl.
ACM-SIGIR Conference on Researchand Development in Information Retrieval.J.
Swales.
1990.
Genre analysis.
Cambridge UP.L.
Tanabe and W. Wilbur.
2002.
Tagging gene andprotein names in biomedical text.
Bioinformatics,18:1124-1132.S.
Teufel, J. Carletta and M. Moens.
1999.
Anannotation scheme for discourse-levelargumentation in research articles.
InProceedings of the 9th EACL Conference.S.
Teufel and M. Moens.
1999.
Argumentativeclassification of extracted sentences as a firststep towards flexible abstracting.
In ?Advancesin automatic text summarization?, Mani, I. andMaybury, M.T, eds.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.S.
Teufel and M. Moens.
2002.
SummarizingScientific Articles: Experiments with Relevanceand Rhetorical Status.
Computational Linguistics,28(4):409-445.T.
A. van Dijk.
1980.
Macrostructures.
Hillsdale,NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.35
