Cross Document Co-Reference Resolution Applications for People in the LegalDomainChristopher DozierResearch and DevelopmentThomson Legal and Regulatory610 Opperman DriveEagan, MN 55123,USAchris.dozier@thomson.comThomas ZielundResearch and DevelopmentThomson Legal and Regulatory610 Opperman DriveEagan, MN 55123,USAtom.zielund@thomson.comAbstractBy combining information extraction and re-cord linkage techniques, we have created a re-pository of references to attorneys, judges, andexpert witnesses across a broad range of textsources.
These text sources include news,caselaw, law reviews, Medline abstracts, andlegal briefs among others.
We briefly describeour cross document co-reference resolution al-gorithm and discuss applications these re-solved references enable.
Among theseapplications is one that shows summaries ofrelationships chains between individuals basedon their document co-occurrence and crossdocument co-references.1 IntroductionAttorneys, judges, and expert witnesses all playimportant roles in legal systems.
Judges decidecases.
Attorneys handle the legal needs of clients.Expert witnesses testify about complex facts andplay an ever-increasing part in the settlement ofcases.
An important part of an attorney?s prepara-tion for litigation involves researching the back-ground of the judge deciding the case, of attorneysrepresenting the opposing side, and of testifyingexperts.
To help attorneys with this research need,we have created a system that automatically linksacross documents references to attorneys, judges,and expert witnesses.
These documents includenews articles, caselaw documents, law reviews,Medline abstracts, and legal briefs among others.Our method of creating cross document co-references involves extracting from text MUC typetemplates for individuals and matching the tem-plates to biographical profile records using aBayesian based record linkage technique.
We havedescribed this method in detail elsewhere (Dozierand Haschart, 2000; Dozier et al, 2003) andbriefly describe it in section 2.The biographical records for attorneys, judges,and expert witnesses that we use for cross docu-ment co-reference resolution have been createdthrough a combination of automatic and manualtechniques.
The basis of the biographical recordsfor attorneys and judges comes from a manuallycreated professional directory which is itself aproduct called the Westlaw Legal Directory.
Thebiographical records for the expert witnesses werecreated through text mining.
We have describedthe text mining application for creation of the ex-pert witness database in (Dozier er al., 2003) anddescribe it briefly in sections 3 and 4.A new application we have created from thesecross document references involves creating sum-maries of relationships between attorneys, judges,and expert witnesses.
This new application is dis-cussed in section 5.Since their deployment, these applications havecreated automatically over 7 million links betweenreferences to attorneys, judges, and expert wit-nesses in various document collections and theirrespective biographical profiles.2 Cross Document Co-reference Resolu-tion through Extraction and LinkingBy combining information extraction techniqueswith record linkage techniques, we have been ableto resolve cross document references for attorneys,judges, and expert witnesses.
Our basic techniqueinvolves extracting a template record for an indi-vidual from a text document and matching the tem-plate record to an authority file record.
Figure 1depicts how extraction and record linkage arecombined to create cross document links.P e rson  T e m p la teS tructu redR e co rdA u tho rity  P ro fileS truc tu re d  R e cordR cord  lin ka geprocessE x trac tio n  o fte m p la terecordT e xt D ocum e nt L in ka geR e co rdC onvers ion  o fS tru ctu redR ecord  to T extP e rson  P ro fileD ocum en tFigure 1: Cross Document Coreference ResolutionProcessThe extraction portion of our system is similar totemplate extraction systems described in the Mes-sage Understanding Conferences proceedings(MUC-6, 1995) and elsewhere (Appelt et al,1993)(Grishman,1997).
Our extraction process relies ona finite state machine that identifies paragraphs in adocument containing attorney, judge, or expertnames and a semantic parser that extracts from theparagraphs template information about each indi-vidual named.The record linkage portion of our system uses aBayesian network to match and link attorney,judge, and expert templates to biographical re-cords.
This network computes the probability thata given biographical record matches the same per-son specified in an extracted template.
To com-pute this match likelihood, we treat first name,middle name, last name, firm, city, state, court, andother information as independent pieces of matchevidence.
We compute the prior probability of amatch by calculating the probability that a ran-domly selected biographical record will match atemplate.
We then compute conditional matchprobabilities for each piece of evidence using amanually tagged training set.
For each piece ofevidence, we compute the conditional probabilitythat a biographical record matches a template whenthat piece of evidence matches exactly, matches ina strong fuzzy way, matches in a weak fuzzy way,is unknown, or mismatches.
We define what wemean by strong fuzzy and weak fuzzy in (Dozierand Haschart, 2000) and (Dozier et al, 2003).
Butbasically we mean that a piece of match evidencematches in a fuzzy way when it is compatible withanother piece of evidence but does not match ex-actly.We compute the match probability score for therecords using the following form of Bayes?
rule:P(M|E) is the probability that the template andauthority records refer to the same person, givenmatch evidence E.P(M) is the prior probability that the referencerecords refer to the same person.
P(?M) is theprior probability that records do not refer to thesame person.P(Ei|M) is the conditional probability that thematch variable Ei takes on a particular value giventhat the template and authority records match.
Forexample, if we let E1 stand for middle name matchevidence, the probability that the middle names inthe records match exactly given that the recordsthemselves match is P(E1=exact|M).P(Ei|?M) is the conditional probability that Eitakes on a particular value, given that the templateand authority records do not match.
For example,if we let E1 stand for middle name match evidence,the probability that the middle names in the refer-ence records match, given that the records them-selves do not match, is P(E1=exact|?
M).A sample caselaw document with highlightedlinks to judges and attorneys is shown in figure 2.Figure 3 shows caselaw documents linked to thebiographical record for attorney Gerry Spence.3 Mining Authority Records From TextFor expert witnesses, we created an expert wit-ness authority file of some 100,000 profiles, minedfrom approximately 300,000 jury verdict and set-tlement documents, using publicly available pro-fessional license information, an expertisetaxonomy, and automatic text mining techniques.This directory can be browsed by area of expertiseas well as by location and name.
The profiles areautomatically linked to Medline abstracts, as wellas back to the relevant jury verdict and settlementdocuments.
To the best of our knowledge, this isthe largest expert witness directory of its kind andthe first to be built using automatic text miningtechniques.Figure 4 shows the text mining process we usedto create our authority file of expert witnesses fromjury verdict and settlement documents.)|()()|()()|()()|(????
?iiiiiiMEPMPMEPMPMEPMPEMPFigure 2: Caselaw Document.
Underscored Names are Hyperlinked to Profiles.Figure 3: Gerry Spence Authority Record with Coreference Links.
Listed in Left-hand Panel are Cases thatReference Gerry Spence.Merge ExpertInstancesMerge ProfessionalLicense DataExpert WitnessAuthority FileJVS documentcollectionAssign TaxonomyLabelExpertTaxonomyProfessionalLicenseRecordsExpert WitnessInstanceRecordsExtract Expertsfrom JVSMatch JVSExperts to AuthorityFileMedline articleFigure 4: Text Mining of Expert Witness ProfilesFirst, we extract references to expert witnessesfrom court proceeding documents.
In our initialimplementation of the system, we extracted290,000 reference records to expert witnesses from300,000 documents.
The method of extraction forthese reference records is essentially the same asthe method described in section 2 for template re-cords.
Reference records in fact are template re-cords for experts.Second, we merge the expert witness referencerecords together to create an expert witness profilefile in which each particular expert is listed onlyonce.
Section 4 describes the merging process inmore detail.Third, we add professional license informationinto the expert witness profile records.
These re-cords include license information from the DrugEnforcement Agency, which licenses health careprofessionals to prescribe drugs, and from variousother professional licensing agencies.
To deter-mine whether a license record and expert recordrefer to the same person, we again apply Bayesianbased record linkage.
The evidence we use tomatch license records to profiles includes firstname, middle name, last name, name suffix, city-state information, area of expertise, and name rar-ity.Fourth, we automatically assign each expert wit-ness record one or more classification categories inan expertise taxonomy.Finally, we link court documents and Medlineabstracts to expert witness profile records usingBayesian based record linkage for a third andfourth time.Figure 5 below shows a jury verdict and settle-ment document.
Note that the reference to expertwitness oncologist Arthur Ablin is highlighted.Figure 6 shows the authority file record for ArthurAblin to which the hypertext link in the jury ver-dict and settlement document is linked.
Figure 7shows the cases Dr. Ablin has testified in as wellas Medline articles Dr. Ablin has authored.4 Merging Reference Records to CreateAuthority FileTo create our directory of expert profiles (i.e.,expert authority file) from expert reference re-cords, we need to create a set of records that list aparticular expert one and only one time.
Thismeans we need to merge together all the referencerecords that pertain to each individual.As a first step in merging the expert referencerecords, we group the reference records into sets inwhich each record in a group shares a common lastname.
By doing this, we avoid the computationalcost of comparing every expert witness referencerecord to every other reference record.To merge expert references together within thegroups, we use the following greedy algorithm:1.
Select an unmerged expert reference record fromthe group.
Create an expert authority record fromthis record.
Mark the expert reference record asmerged.2.
Compare the new expert authority record to eachunmerged reference record in the group.
In eachcomparison, compute the probability that the ex-pert in the authority record refers to the same indi-vidual referenced in the reference record.
UseBayesian matching to compute this match probabi-lity.
If the match probability exceeds a matchthreshold, mark the reference record as ?merged?.Note that the match threshold probability is deter-mined empirically from training data.3.
If any unmerged records remain in the group,then return to step 1 else halt.Note that, at this stage, it is still possible forthere to be duplicate records in the authority file, iftwo or more reference records pertain to the sameindividual but have variant last name spellings.While this is not common, it can happen when asource document contains a misspelled last name.To address this situation, we make a final pass overthe merged authority file and flag record pairs formanual review when the last names of two recordsare separated from each other by an edit distanceof two or less and when the records match in allother respects.5 Relationship SummariesUsing the links between documents and entitiessuch as judges, attorneys, and expert witnesses, weare creating a new set of products that automati-cally summarize relevant relationships amongthese entities.
For example, by following co-Figure 5: Jury Verdict and Settlement Document with Hyper Links to Attorneys, Judges, and Expert Wit-nesses including Arthur Ablin.Figure 6: Profile of Oncology Expert Arthur Ablin That Was Created Through Text Mining.Figure 7: Documents Pertaining to Arthur Ablin.reference and co-occurrence links, automatic re-ports can be generated that show which attorneyshave hired which expert witnesses, which attorneyshave worked together, which attorneys have ap-peared before which judges, which experts haveco-authored papers, and so on.Figures 8, 9, and 10 show a summary of the rela-tionships between U.S. Chief Justice William H.Rehnquist and some other attorneys and judgeswho have been identified in documents with him.The summary shows some of the close workingrelationships one would expect to find for the chiefjustice.
Note, however, that these relationshipswere discovered through cross-document co-reference, not through an editorial process.6 DiscussionOur cross document co-reference resolutionmethod works by attaching a person referenced ina document to a profile record that stands for aunique real world person outside the frame of thedocument.
Person references from multipledocuments that attach to the same profile are re-solved by this common attachment.In the case of attorneys and judges, we used anexisting directory of attorneys and judges as thesource of our profile records.
In the case of ex-perts, we created profiles by mining referencesfrom highly structured and trustworthy documentssuch as jury verdict and settlement documents andprofessional license records.When more than one person in a single docu-ment can be attached to individual profiles and therelationship between the references in the docu-ment can be also extracted, then a relationship re-cord can also be created outside the frame of thedocument and these relationships can then bechained together to generate relational inferences.This is the technology we are currently exploringwithin the legal domain and beyond.There is a popular belief that between any twopeople, there are around six degrees of separationor less.
Although (Dodds et al, 2003) and(Travers and Milgram, 1969) provide some em-pirical evidence in support of this theory, the popu-larity of the theory spawns more from a populartrivia game in which you attempt to find a path toKevin Bacon from any Hollywood star through co-starring roles (see oracleofbacon.org for an on-linedemo).Using the database of links built from crossdocument co-reference resolution on legal docu-ments, a similar technique could be used to findpaths of co-occurrence between arbitrary pairs ofU.
S. legal professionals.
Although we do not pic-ture any popular party games developing from this,such techniques could prove useful for activitiessuch as detecting conflicts of interest among peo-ple working on a legal matter.Judge Summaryx Name: William H. Rehnquistx From: United States Supreme Courtx Location: Washington, DCLinks from Other WestLaw Contentx Case Law: 847x Oral Arguments: 10Figure 8: Link Summary Statistics for William H. Rehnquist1 Judges Appearing with William H. RehnquistName Court LocationCo-AppearancesAntonin Scalia United States Supreme Court Washington, DC 782David H. Souter United States Supreme Court Washington, DC 769John Paul Stevens United States Supreme Court Washington, DC 690Anthony M. Kennedy United States Supreme Court Washington, DC 682Clarence Thomas United States Supreme Court Washington, DC 621Sandra Day O?Connor United States Supreme Court Washington, DC 596Ruth Bader Ginsburg United States Supreme Court Washington, DC 534Stephen G. Breyer United States Supreme Court Washington, DC 471Byron R. White United States Supreme Court Washington, DC 145Thurgood Marshall United States Supreme Court Washington, DC 4810 most frequently co-appearing of 27 records displayed.Figure 9: Judges Appearing with Justice William H. RehnquistAttorneys Appearing with William H. RehnquistName Firm1.1 Location Co-AppearancesEdwin S. Kneedler Justice Dept.
Solicitor General Washington, DC 40Theodore B. Olson U.S. Department Of Justice Washington, DC 36Michael R. Dreeben Justice Dept.
Solicitor General Washington, DC 34Lawrence G. Wallace Justice Dept.
Solicitor General Washington, DC 26Kent L. Jones Justice Dept.
Solicitor General Washington, DC 25James A. Feldman Justice Dept.
Solicitor General Washington, DC 19Warren Price, III Price, Okamoto, Himeno & Lum Honolulu, HI 18Charles M. Oberly, III Oberly & Jennings, P.A.
Wilmington, DE 18Kenneth W. Starr Kirkland & Ellis Llp Washington, DC 16Malcolm L. Stewart Justice Dept.
Solicitor General Washington, DC 1610 most frequently co-appearing of 1792 records displayed.Figure 10: Attorneys Appearing with Justice William H. RehnquistWe have described the precision and recall of theprograms that create cross document co-referencesfor attorneys and judges in (Dozier and Haschart,2000) and that create co-references for experts in(Dozier et al, 2003).
In general, for collections inwhich documents reference people within stereo-typical syntax, attach location and job type infor-mation to the person, and usually include theperson?s full first name (e.g., attorney names andexpert witness names in caselaw), we typicallyachieve better than 0.98 precision and better than0.95 recall.
For collections in which documents donot give full name or do not have highly stereo-typical syntax, the precision and recall perform-ance is worse.
For example, when tagging expertwitness references in Medline, where an author?sfirst initial is given in place of the full form of thefirst name and the author?s job type must be in-ferred from the topic of the scientific article, wecurrently achieve precision of  better than 0.95 andrecall of around 0.60.7 ConclusionBy combining information extraction and recordlinkage techniques, we have created a repository ofreferences to attorneys, judges, and expert wit-nesses across a broad range of text sources.
Thesetext sources include news, caselaw, law reviews,Medline abstracts, and legal briefs among others.We briefly describe our cross document co-reference resolution algorithm and discuss applica-tions these resolved references enable.
Amongthese applications is one that shows summaries ofrelationships chains between individuals based ontheir document co-occurrence and cross documentco-referencesReferencesAppelt, D. E., Hobbs, J. E., Bear, J., Israel, D., Ty-son, M. (1993).
FASTUS: A Finite-State Proc-essor for Information Extraction from Real-World Text.
In Proceedings of the InternationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pages1172-1178.Dodds, P., Muhammed, R. & Watts, D.  An Ex-perimental Study of Search in Global SocialNetworks.
Science, Vol 301, Issue 5634, 8 Au-gust 2003, pages 827-829.Dozier, C. and Haschart, R., (2000) Automatic Ex-traction and Linking of Person Names in LegalText.
In Proceedings of RIAO-2000 (Recherched?Informations Assistee par Ordinator), pages1305-1321, Paris, France.Dozier, C., Jackson.
P., Guo, X., Chaudhary, M.,and Arumainayagam, Y.
(2003) Creation of anExpert Witness Database Through Text Mining.In Proceedings of the 9th International Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence and Law., pages177-184, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.Grishman, R. (1997).
Information Extraction:Techniques and Challenges.
In Information Ex-traction : A Multidisciplinary Approach to anEmerging Information Technology : Interna-tional Summer School, Frascati, pages 13-27,Spring Verlag, Frascati, Italy.Travers, Jeffrey and Milgram, Stanley (1969).
AnExperimental Study of the Small World Prob-lem.
Sociometry, Volume 32, Issue 4 (Dec.,1969), pages 425-443.
