On the use of automatic tools for large scale semantic analyses of causalconnectivesLiesbeth DegandUniversit?
catholique de Lou-vainInstitute of Linguisticsdegand@lige.ucl.ac.beWilbert SpoorenVrije Universiteit, AmsterdamLanguage & Communicationw.spooren@let.vu.nlYves BestgenUniversit?
catholique de Lou-vainFaculty of PsychologyYves.bestgen@psp.ucl.ac.beAbstractIn this paper we describe the (annotation) tools underly-ing two automatic techniques to analyse the meaningand use of backward causal connectives in large Dutchnewspaper corpora.
With the help of these techniques,Latent Semantic Analysis and Thematic Text Analysis,the contexts of more than 14,000 connectives were stud-ied.
We will focus here on the methods of analysis andon the fairly straightforward (annotation) tools neededto perform the semantic analyses, i.e.
POS-tagging, lem-matisation and a thesaurus-like thematic dictionary.1 IntroductionIn ongoing work, we explore the possibility tomake use of large corpora to test hypotheses con-cerning linguistic factors determining the meaningand use of connectives.
Of course, corpus-basedapproaches of connectives are not new, but classi-cally they consist of either fully analysed but rela-tively small corpora, or of large corpora of which arandom set is analysed.
The reason for this quanti-tative restriction is clear: The data-analyses arecompletely hand-based.
While these empiricalstudies are useful from a qualitative point of view,they all suffer from the same quantitative draw-back, namely the relatively small number of data(rarely more than 100 occurrences are analysed,mostly only 50).
In addition, most of these analy-ses are still too analyst-dependent, making gener-alizations and replications difficult.
Changing thissituation includes handling exhaustively large cor-pora (with hundreds and even thousands of occur-rences of the same linguistic phenomenon) andimplementing the analytic procedures to makethem analyst-independent.
In this paper, we testsuch a methodology for which we used a numberof linguistic hypotheses found in the literature onthe semantics of causal connectives and tried toreplicate the results.
The linguistic material weworked on are four Dutch backward causal con-nectives: aangezien ('since'), doordat ('because ofthe fact that'), omdat ('because') and, want ('be-cause').
This choice was motivated by the fact thatthere has already been quite some linguistic workon this topic, mainly empirically based (Degand,2001; Degand and Pander Maat, 2003; Pit, 2003).1We have shown elsewhere how linguistic hypothe-ses concerning the scaling of these connectives interms of subjectivity and their thematic behaviourcould be supported (Bestgen et al, 2003).
Sincethese first results are very encouraging, we wouldlike to focus here on the methods of automaticanalysis ?
Latent Semantic Analysis and ThematicText Analysis - and on the fairly straightforward(annotation) tools needed to perform the semanticanalyses, i.e.
POS-tagging, lemmatisation and athesaurus-like thematic dictionary.
We illustratehow the combination of the two techniques ofautomatic analysis permit to gain deeper insightinto the semantic constraints on the use of the con-nectives studied.
Doing so, we test a number ofnew hypotheses concerning the perspectivizing andpolyphonic nature of connectives that remain un-confirmed in the linguistic literature.
We also dis-cuss the robustness of the techniques and their re-usability in other contexts and other languages.1For lack of space we will not present the linguistic analyses here but willconsider them as given.2 Techniques and ToolsThe techniques used have to fulfil two tasks: theyare needed to extract the relevant linguistic mate-rial from the corpus, that is to say the four connec-tives with their context of use; and they are used toanalyse the retrieved elements in order to test anumber of linguistic hypotheses concerning themeaning and use of these connectives.
Our mainobjective is to show that with the use of these tech-niques only fairly straightforward annotation toolsare needed to perform quite profound semanticanalyses on massive quantitative data.2.1 POS-Tagging and the identification ofthe causal segmentsThe extraction of the relevant linguistic materialwas fulfilled by automatic syntactic analysis tech-niques.
As a basis for our analyses we worked withthe first six months of a Dutch newspaper corpusof more than 30 million words2.
This material wasPOS-tagged using MBT (Memory Based Tagger)(Daelemans et al,1996).
We then discarded theitems with few content words: sports results, tele-vision programs, crosswords and puzzles, stockexchange reports, service information from thenewspaper editor, etc.
We also ?cleaned?
the cor-pus material of irregularities caused by the incom-patibility between the source file and the taggingprogram (mostly nonsense words generated by theprogram).
This eventually led to a data set of ap-proximately 16,500,000 words.The POS-tagging permitted to segment the cor-pus in sentences and to label the words grammati-cally.
Second, POS-tagging allowed us to locateand extract the connectives from the sentences inwhich they occurred.
Concretely, we extracted allsentence-length segments on the basis of the tag<UT> (?utterance?).
We then did a search on thefour connectives tagged as <conj> by the parser.Table 1 displays the frequencies of the retrievedconnectives.
These figures do not include a numberof sentences that were eliminated because theywere potentially problematic for the analysis.
Thiswas for instance the case for sentences containingmore than one connective out of our list of four.32We used the year 1997 of "De Volkskrant" a Dutch national daily newspaper.The corpus is distributed on CD-rom.2These cases were eliminated in order to be sure of the exact influence of theconnective and about the exact contribution of  the context.Connective Raw frequency Relative frequency(per million words)aangezien 248 30Doordat 826 101Omdat 7689 938Want 5621 686Table 1: Frequencies of the causal connectives in thedata setThe extracted sentences were then analysed interms of a series of heuristics to identify the CAUSE(P) and CONSEQUENCE segments (Q)4.
From asyntactic point of view, the connectives doordat,omdat and aangezien can occur in two basic typesof causal constructions: medial (Q CONNECTIVE P),see example (1), and preposed ones (CONNECTIVEP, Q), see example (2).
The connective want onlyappears in medial constructions.
(1) Een gezamenlijk beleid isnodig omdat in het najaarin het Japanse Kyotowereldwijd wordt onderhan-deld over het klimaat.
?A common policy is necessarybecause worldwide negotia-tions will take place in theautumn in the Japanese cityof Kyoto.?
(2) Iedere strenge winterheeft gevolgen voor dekerkorgels', zegt dr. A.J.Gierveld van de Gerefor-meerde Organisten-vereniging.
Doordat hethout krimpt, kunnen erkieren ontstaan waardoorlucht ontsnapt.
?Every hard winter has conse-quences for the church or-gans?, Dr. A.J.
Gierveld ofthe Reformed Organists Unionsays.
Because the woodshrinks, crocks may show,through which air escapes.
?The heuristics to identify the CAUSE (P) andCONSEQUENCE (Q) segments were primarily basedon4The connectives under investigation are all so-called backward causal connec-tives, i.e.
they express an underlying causal relation of the type CONSEQUENCE ?CAUSE, in which the connective introduces the CAUSE segment.a) the position of the connective in thesentence (number and type of wordspreceding the connective),b) the number, position and order of finiteverbs in the segment,c) the presence or absence of punctuationmarkers, especially commas.For example, a sentence beginning with the con-nective omdat can either be preposed (P-Q) (ex-ample 3), or medial (Q-P), if Q and P are given indifferent sentences (example 4).
(3) Omdat de verdachte nieteerder was veroordeeld,bleef de gevangenisstrafgeheel voorwaardelijk.
?Because the suspect had notbeen convicted before, thesentence was entirely proba-tional.?
(4) Maar er zijn meer pro-gramma's die de moeitewaard zijn en die tochniet worden bekeken.
Omdatze onvindbaar zijn tussende ramsj.
?But there are more [TV] pro-grammes that are worth watch-ing and still are not beingwatched.
Because they arehard to trace among the rub-bish.
?To extract these segments correctly, a number ofrules enter into play.
For example,a) If CONN = omdat, doordat or aangezien; andb) If CONN in initial position, look for first fi-nite verb [vf], if vf appears in segment<?vf, vf ?> or <?
vf vf ?>,  then cut be-fore second vf, and segment containingCONN is P, the other one is Q.c) If CONN in initial position and there is onlyone vf, then segment containing CONN is P,and previous sentence is Q.Other rules are used to determine whether theCONN is in initial position or not.
In addition toexamples (2-3), example (5) also illustrates a caseof initial connective, even though a word precedesthe connective.
(5) En omdat in Nederland devoertaal nog steeds hetNederlands is, worden demeeste schoolvakken ook indie taal gedoceerd.
?And because Dutch is stillthe main language in theNetherlands, most subjectsare taught in that language.
?This resulted in 21 heuristic rules, the adequacy ofwhich was hand-checked on large samples of thedata.
In the end, 1.4% of the data were lost becauseone of the segments was missing or because noneof the procedures could work out the identificationof P and Q.
Ultimately  we were able to identifythe causal segments for 14181 sentences.
Four syn-tactic environments can be distinguished, involvinga preposed construction <Conn P Q.> as in exam-ples (2, 3, 5) above, and three types of medial con-structions:a)  <Q conn P.> corresponds to a constructionin which Q and P are linked by a connectivewithin the same sentence (example 1);b) <Q.
Conn P.> corresponds to constructionsin which the previous sentence functions asQ (examples 4); andc) <Prev.
Q conn P.> corresponds to construc-tions for which the Q-segment is anaphoricwith the preceding sentence, thus requiringthis previous sentence for the semantic in-terpretation, as in example (6), in which theQ ?dat komt?
(litt.
?that comes?)
picks up thesemantic information from the previous sen-tence and links it to the P-segment intro-duced by the connective.
(6) De Europese economieraakt hopeloos achteropbij de Amerikaanse enJapanse.
Dat komt door-dat Europa niet meedoetop nieuwe groeimarkten.
?The European economy isfalling hopelessly behindthe American and Japaneseeconomy.
This is becauseEurope is not participatingin new growth markets.
?Actually, only 7.1% of the sentences investigatedbelong to the preposed construction type.
How-ever, important divergences exist between the con-nectives: want is never used in preposed position,omdat in 10.41% of the cases, and doordat in14.32% of the cases, a figure which rises to 43.5%of the cases for aangezien.
It is interesting to pointout that this is in total agreement with previoussmall-scale corpus research on this matter.2.2 Lemmatisation and the construction ofthe LSA semantic spaceThe first automatic technique that will be presentedis Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA), a mathematicaltechnique for extracting a very large ?semanticspace?
from large text corpora on the basis of thestatistical analysis of the set of co-occurrences in atext corpus.
Landauer et al (1998) stress that thistechnique can be viewed from two sides.
At atheoretical level, it is meant to be used to developsimulations of the cognitive processes running dur-ing language comprehension, including, for in-stance, a computational model of metaphortreatment (Kintsch, 2000 ; Lemaire et al, 2001),but also to analyse the coherence of texts (Foltz etal., 1998 ; Pi?rard et al, 2004).
At a more appliedlevel, it is a technique which enables to infer and torepresent the meaning of words on the basis oftheir actual use in text so that the similarity of themeaning of words, sentences or paragraphs can beestimated (Bestgen, 2002; Choi et al, 2001).
It isthis latter aspect which draws our attention here.The point of departure of the analysis is a lexicaltable (Lebart and Salem, 1992) containing the fre-quencies of every word in each of the documentsincluded in the text material, a document being atext, a paragraph, or a sentence.
To derive semanticrelations between words from the lexical table theanalysis of mere co-occurrences will not do,  themajor problem being that even in a large corpusmost words are relatively rare.
Consequently theco-occurrences of words are even rarer.
This factmakes such co-occurrences very sensitive to arbi-trary variations (Burgess et al, 1998 ; Kintsch,2001).
LSA resolves this problem by replacing theoriginal frequency table by an approximation pro-ducing a kind of smoothening effect on the asso-ciations.
To this end, the frequency tableundergoes a singular value decomposition and it isthen recomposed on the basis of only a fraction ofthe information it contains.
Thus, the thousands ofwords from the documents have been substitutedby linear combinations or ?semantic dimensions?with respect to which the original words can besituated again.
Contrary to a classical factor analy-sis the extracted dimensions are very numerousand non-interpretable.All original words and segments can then beplaced into this semantic space.
The meaning ofeach word is represented by a vector, thus indicat-ing the exact location of the word in this multidi-mensional semantic space.
To calculate thesemantic proximity between two words, the cosinebetween the two vectors that represent them is cal-culated.
The more two words are semanticallysimilar, the more their vectors point in the samedirection, and consequently, the closer their cosinewill be to 1 (coinciding vectors).
A cosine of 0shows an absence of similarity, since the corre-sponding vectors point in orthogonal directions.
Itis also possible to calculate the similarity between?higher order?
elements, i.e.
between sentences,paragraphs, and entire documents, or combinationsof those, even if this higher order element isn?t byitself an analysed element.
The vector in questioncorresponds to the centroid of the words compos-ing the segment under investigation.
The centroidresults from the weighted sum of the vectors ofthese words (Deerwester et al, 1990).
This makesit possible to calculate the semantic proximity be-tween any two sentences, viz.
whether present inthe original corpus or not, whether the originalcorpus had been segmented in sentence lengthdocuments or not.To perform the LSA analyses, we used theDutch newspaper corpus to build the semanticspace.
To this end, the data set, which had beenlemmatised with MBLEM (Memory Based Lem-matiser) (Van den Bosch & Daelemans, 1999), wascut into article-length segments.
Elimination of alldigits, special characters, punctuation marks, andof a list of 222 stopwords (words occurring in?any?
context, like determiners, auxiliaries, con-junctions, ?
), brought the total number of wordsback to approximately 6.5 million.
For the inputlexical table, the documents were articles of mini-mally 24 words and maximally 523 words, i.e.
allarticles minus the 10% shortest and minus the 10%longest ones.
As to the words, we kept all thosethat occurred at least ten times in the data set.Overall this resulted in a matrix of 36630 terms in28640 documents.
To build the semantic spaceproper, the singular value decomposition was real-ized with the program SVDPACKC (Berry, 1992;Berry et al, 1993), and the 300 first singular vec-tors were retained.
In the present research we willuse this technique to evaluate the semantic prox-imity between P& Q, and between the causal seg-ments and the prior or subsequent sentences.2.3 Dictionaries and lexical categorisationThe second technique used to test the linguistichypotheses is alternatively called ?word countstrategy?
(Pennebaker et al, 2003), automatic iden-tification of linguistic features (Biber, 1988) orthematic text analysis (Popping, 2000; Stone,1997), the aim of which is to determine whethersome categories of words (e.g., words of opinion,fact, attitude, etc.)
or some grammatical categories(e.g.
personal pronouns) occur more often in agiven type of text segment.
The first step in thiskind of analysis is to build a dictionary that con-tains the categories to be investigated and the cor-responding (lemmatised) lexical entries that signaltheir occurrence.
The categories may correspond togrammatical classes, but also to thematic wordgrouping.
The following step consists in searchingall the text segments containing these lexical en-tries in order to account for the frequency of eachcategory in each text segment.
These data are putinto a matrix that has one row for each text seg-ment and one column for each category, each cellcontaining the frequency of the respective categoryin the respective text segment.
Finally, this matrixis analysed to determine whether some categoriesoccur more often in a given type of text segment.To illustrate this technique, let us assume that wewant to test the hypothesis that (nominative) per-sonal pronouns occur more frequent in text seg-ments connected by want than by the otherbackward causal connectives.
In the first step the"Personal-Pronoun" dictionary is built, containingthe corresponding lexical entries: ik, jij, je, hij, zij,ze, wij, we, jullie, u.
All the text segments contain-ing these lexical entries are then searched in orderto account for the frequency of the concept "Per-sonal-Pronoun" in each text segment.
These dataare put into a matrix which is analysed to deter-mine whether the concept "Personal-Pronoun" oc-curs more often with want-segments than with theother causal segments.The two main difficulties we are confrontedwith when using this technique in the present stud-ies are (i) the reduced size of the analysed textsegments (one sentence or even less), and (ii) thedifficulty, or even impossibility, to build an ex-haustive list of words belonging to a category likefact, opinion, attitude, etc.
With respect to the firstdifficulty, we believe that the reduced size of thesegments will be compensated by the large numberof segments of each type being analysed.
The sec-ond difficulty is addressed below where we pro-pose a number of ways to extend the category listsautomatically.3 Combining LSA and TTA: an applica-tion3.1 Perspective shiftThere are a number of claims in the literature thatsome connectives co-occur with perspective shiftsbetween the causal segments, while others do not.Perspectivisation accounts for the fact that thereare more sources of information than the speakeralone.
In relation to our connectives, perspectivisa-tion has been claimed to play a role in the meaningdifferences between want (introducing a perspec-tive shift) and omdat (no perspective shift).
How-ever, the various corpus studies on this matter havenot univocally confirmed this hypothesis (Degand,2001; Oversteegen, 1997).
We would like to ex-plore this matter further by comparing the semantictightness of the segments related by our connec-tives.
This will be done by calculating the seman-tic proximity between Q and P for each of theconnectives.
Our hypotheses are as follows:Hypothesis 1: The cosine between Q and P re-lated by monophonic connectives (omdat)should be higher than the cosine between Q andP related by polyphonic connectives (want).Hypothesis 2: The cosine between the prior sen-tence and the subsequent sentence should behigher for monophonic connectives than forpolyphonic connectives.Cos.
Q & P Cos.
Prior Subse-quentMean SD Mean SDaangezien(N = 200)0.143 0.17 0.207 0.21doordat (N= 644)0.154 0.17 0.187 0.19omdat (N =5691)0.137 0.17 0.182 0.20want (N =3974)0.120 0.17 0.150 0.19Table 2: Mean Cosine per connective between thecausal segments, and between the prior and subsequentsentencesTable 2 displays the cosines resulting from theLSA-analysis.
Two ANOVAs  were performed.The first one had the connectives as independentvariable and the semantic proximity between thecausal segments as dependent variable.
It showsthat hypothesis 1 is borne out (F(3, 10505) =11.36, p < 0.0001): the causal segments related bythe (monophonic) connective omdat are semanti-cally closer than the segments related by the (poly-phonic) connective want.
The results furthermoreshow that doordat and aangezien should be de-scribed in terms of  monophonic connectives.
Thesecond ANOVA, with the connectives as inde-pendent variable and the semantic proximity be-tween the prior and subsequent sentences asdependent variable, confirms hypothesis 2 (F(3,10505) = 25.75, p < 0.0001): the monophonic con-nectives aangezien, doordat and omdat go alongwith topic continuity (or at least semantic prox-imity) between the prior and subsequent sentenceto the causal construction, while this is less thecase for the connective want.To confirm that these results are indeed relatedto the issue of perspectivisation, this LSA-analysiswas completed with a thematic text analysis to testfor the presence vs. absence of perspective indica-tors.
To this end we built a "Perspective" diction-ary of perspective-indicating elements (Spooren,1989) such as intensifiers, emphasisers, attitudinalnouns and adjuncts, etc.
(Caenepeel, 1989).
Thedictionary was composed of two subcategories:a) communication markers, like (non-ambiguous) verbs and adverbs of sayingand thinking, e.g.
report, tell, confirm, re-quire,  according to,?b) markers of the speaker's attitude, like lin-guistic elements expressing an expectationor a denial of expectation, intensifiers andattitudinals, and evaluative words, e.g.probably, must, horrible, fantastic, ?To build the dictionary, we used a Dutch thesaurus(Brouwers, 1997) and extracted all (unambiguous)lemmas corresponding to one of the above-mentioned categories.
Multi-word expressions orseparable verbs were not included in the lists.
Thelists were composed on two native speaker'sjudgements with a good knowledge of the litera-ture on perspectivisation.The idea of the thematic text analysis was toconfirm that the break in semantic tightness occur-ring with want-segments, as revealed by the LSA-analysis, could indeed be interpreted in terms of aperspective shift.
We would therefore expect thatthe causal segments related by the connective wantshow diverging perspectivisation patterns, and thatthis will not be the case for the segments related byomdat, doordat, aangezien.
This is reformulated inhypothesis 3.Hypothesis 3:  If the causal segments are re-lated by the connective want, the Q-segmentcontains perspective signals, the P-segmentdoes not.
The causal segments related by theconnectives omdat, doordat, aangezien do notpresent such a shift.CommunicationmarkersAttitude markersMean Q Mean P Mean Q Mean Paangezien(N = 139)0.173SD: 0.380.115SD: 0.320.360SD: 0.480.273SD: 0.45doordat (N= 699)0.129SD: 0.330.104SD: 0.310.305SD: 0.460.326SD: 0.47omdat (N =6747)0.179SD: 0.380.162SD: 0.370.312SD: 0.460.312SD: 0.46want (N =5589)0.175SD: 0.380.181SD: 0.380.442SD: 0.500.394SD: 0.49Table 3: Mean number of perspective markers in P & QThe results displayed in Table 3 show that the hy-pothesis is borne out for the subcategory of attitu-dinal markers: want-segments display a higheramount of attitudinal markers in Q than in P (F(1,5588) = 26.84, p < 0.0001).
For the other connec-tives this is not the case.
For the communicationmarkers, the hypothesis is not borne out.
Actually,only omdat displays a higher amount of communi-cation markers in Q (F(1, 6746) = 6.53, p < 0.01).While this latter result might seem counter to ex-pectation, it actually goes in the direction of priorobservations that omdat-relations frequently dis-play the explicit introduction of speech acts (De-gand, 2001; Pit 2003).All together, these results offer new interestinginsights into the discourse environment of (Dutch)causal connectives.
On the one hand, we haveshown with the LSA analysis that the proximitybetween Q and P is lower for want-relations thanfor the other connectives and that this is also thecase for the semantic proximity between the sen-tences prior and subsequent to the causal relations.We therefore concluded that the connective want isa marker of  thematic shift.
On the other hand, theTTA analysis revealed that the Q-segments inwant-relations display a higher amount of attitudi-nal markers.
In our view, the presence of thesemarkers leads to the conclusion that the connectivewant is indeed a marker of perspective shift, i.e.the break in semantic tightness should be inter-preted as a perspective break, as has often beensuggested in the literature.
Furthermore, the addi-tional results for want (absence of communicationmarkers in Q) also suggest that markers expressingthe speaker's attitude should be clearly distin-guished from those that explicit the speaker'sspeech act (verbs of saying) or designate him/herexplicitly as the source of the speech act (adverbslike aldus, volgens, ?
'according to').The polyphony/monophony distinction overlapswith the coordination/subordination distinctionbetween want vs. the other connectives.
The ques-tion arises which of those two factors is responsi-ble for the results obtained.
One route to follow isto compare our results with a language like Englishin which a same connective (because) has bothmonophonic and polyphonic uses, or with a lan-guage like French where a polyphonic connectivelike puisque is subordinating.
The latter topic isobject of ongoing research.4 DiscussionIn this paper we have presented a method for thelinguistic investigation of a discourse phenomenon,viz.
connectives, giving very satisfying resultswithout necessitating heavy, work-intensive (hand-based) discourse annotation.
The research pre-sented is important to the corpus study of discoursephenomena for a number of reasons.
The first isthat it makes it possible to test linguistic hypothe-ses about the use of causal connectives on a largescale basis, whereas previous tests were based ononly small corpora and small amount of data.
Thesecond is that the analysis is mostly fully auto-matic, especially with respect to the coding of thefragments.
It is especially this latter feature thatshould appeal to the linguistic community, andmakes our method more robust.
The intercoderreliability is a constant concern of everyone work-ing with corpora to test linguistic hypotheses (Car-letta, 1996), and the more so when one is codingfor semanto-pragmatic interpretations, as in thecase of the analysis of connectives.
A third reasonis that our method combines two techniques ofautomatic text analysis, which allows us to formu-late our hypotheses to be tested more fine-grainedthan possible with either one separately.
Moreover,hypothesis formulation and testing goes further:We can use the methodology to formulate new hy-potheses.
An interesting possibility is to use LSAto find neighbours of terms in the dictionary, thusextending the dictionary.
A further interestingvenue is to test the linguistic hypotheses for differ-ent genres.
This brings us to a further possibility,namely to reuse the semantic space for differenttypes of linguistic research.
A final possibility is touse the present semantic space for comparativeresearch: How do the present results compare to asimilar analysis of French connectives?AcknowledgementsL.
Degand and Y. Bestgen are research fellows ofthe Belgian National Fund for Scientific Research.This research was supported by grant n?
FRFC2.4535.02 and by a grant (?Action de Rechercheconcert?e?)
of the government of the French-language community of Belgium.ReferencesBerry, M.W.
(1992).
Large scale singular value compu-tation, International journal of Supercomputer Appli-cation,  6: 13-49.Berry, M., Do, T., O'Brien, G., Krishna, V. and Varad-han, S. (1993).
SVDPACKC: Version 1.0 User'sGuide, Tech.
Rep. CS-93-194, University of Tennes-see, Knoxville, TN, October 1993.Burgess C., Livesay K., Lund K., " Explorations in Con-text Space : Words, Sentences, Discourse ", Dis-course Processes, Vol.
25, 1998, p. 211-257.Bestgen, Y.
(2002).
D?termination de la valence affec-tive de termes dans de grands corpus de textes.
Actesdu Colloque International sur la Fouille de TexteCIFT'02 (pp.
81-94).
Nancy : INRIA.Bestgen, Y., Degand, L. & Spooren, W. (2003).
On theuse of automatic techniques to determine the seman-tics of connectives in large newspaper corpora: anexploratory study.
Lagerwerf L., Spooren W., De-gand L. (Eds).
Determination of Information andTenor in Texts: MAD 2003, Stichting NeerlandistiekVU Amsterdam & Nodus Publikationen M?nster,179-188.Biber, D. (1998).
Variation across speech and writing.Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Brouwers, L. (1997).
Het juiste woord, betekeniswoor-denboek.
6th ed.
(ed.
by F. Claes).
Antwerpen etc.
:Standaard.Caenepeel, M. (1989).
Aspect, Temporal Ordering andPerspective in Narrative Fiction.
Doctoral Disserta-tion University of Edinburgh.Carletta, J.
(1996).
Assessing agreement on classifica-tion tasks: the kappa statistic.
Computational Lin-guistics 22 (2), 249-254.Choi,  F., Wiemer-Hastings P., & Moore J.
(2001) La-tent Semantic Analysis for Text Segmentation.
In L.Lee & D. Harman (Eds.
), Proceedings of the 2001Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing , 109-117.Daelemans, W., Zavrel, J., Berck, P., & Gillis, S.(1996).
MBT: A Memory-Based Part of Speech Tag-ger-Generator.
In E. Ejerhed & I. Dagan (Eds.
), Pro-ceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Very LargeCorpora (pp.
14-27).
Copenhagen, Denmark.Deerwester S., Dumais S.T., Furnas G.W., LandauerT.K., Harshman R., Indexing by Latent SemanticAnalysis, Journal of the American Society for Infor-mation Science, Vol.
41, 1990,  391-407.Degand, L. (2001).
Form and Function of Causation.
Atheoretical and empirical investigation of causalconstructions in Dutch, Peeters, Leuven, Paris, Ster-ling.Degand, L.  & Pander Maat, H. (2003) A contrastivestudy of Dutch and French causal connectives on theSpeaker Involvement Scale, A. Verhagen & J. van deWeijer (eds.)
Usage based approaches to Dutch (pp.175-199).
Utrecht: LOT.Foltz, P.W., Kintsch, W.,  & Landauer T.K.
(1998).
Themeasurement of textual coherence with Latent Se-mantic Analysis.
Discourse Processes, 25, 285-307.Kintsch, W. (2000).
Metaphor comprehension: A com-putational theory.
Psychonomic Bulletin and Review,7, 257-266.Kintsch W., (2001).Predication, Cognitive Science 25,173-202.Landauer, T.K., Foltz, P.W., and Laham, D. (1998).
Anintroduction to Latent Semantic Analysis.
DiscourseProcesses, 25 (2, 3), 259-284.Lebart, L., Salem, A., and Berry, L. (1998).
ExploringTextual Data.
Kluwer Academic Publisher.Lemaire, B., Bianco, M., Sylvestre, E., & Noveck, I.(2001).
Un mod?le de compr?hension de textes fond?sur l'analyse de la s?mantique latente.
In H. PaugamMoisy, V. Nyckees, J. Caron-Pargue (Eds.
), La Co-gnition entre Individu et Soci?t?
: Actes du Colloquede l'ARCo (pp.
309-320).
Paris: Herm?s.Oversteegen, L. (1997).
On the pragmatic nature ofcausal and contrastive connectives.
DiscourseProcesses, 24, 51-86.Pennebaker, J.W., , Mehl, M.R., & Niederhoffer, K.G.(2003).
Psychological aspects of natural languageuse: Our words, our selves.
Annual Review of  Psy-chology, 54, 547-577.Pi?rard, S., Degand, L., & Bestgen Y.
(2004).
Vers unerecherche automatique des marqueurs de la segmen-tation du discours.
Actes des 7es Journ?es internatio-nales d?Analyse statistique des Donn?es Textuelles.Louvain-la-Neuve.Pit, M. (2003).
How to Express Yourself with a CausalConnective.
Subjectivity and Causal Connectives inDutch, German and French.
Amsterdam : Rodopi.Popping, R. (2000).
Computer-assisted text analysis.London: SAGE.Spooren, W.P.M.S (1989).
Some Aspects of the Formand Interpretation of Global Contrastive CoherenceRelations.
Unpublished Dissertation, K.U.
Nijmegen.Stone, P.J.
(1997).
Thematic text analysis: New agendasfor analyzing text content.
In C.W.
Roberts (Eds.
).Text Analysis for the Social Sciences: Methods forDrawing Statistical Inferences from Texts and Tran-scripts (pp.35-54).
Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.van den Bosch, A., & Daelemans, W. (1999).
Memory-based morphological analysis.
In Proceedings of the37th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, ACL'99 (pp.
285-292).
NewBrunswick, NJ: ACL
