Multiword Lexical Acquisition and Dictionary FormalizationCristina MOTALabEL, CAUTL, ISTAv.
Rovisco PaisLisboa, Portugal, 1049-001cristina@label.ist.utl.ptPaula CARVALHOUniversity of Lisbon andLabEL, CAUTL, ISTAv.
Rovisco PaisLisboa, Portugal, 1049-001paula@label.ist.utl.ptElisabete RANCHHODUniversity of Lisbon andLabEL, CAUTL, ISTAv.
Rovisco PaisLisboa, Portugal, 1049-001elisabet@label.ist.utl.ptAbstractIn this paper, we present the current state ofdevelopment of a large-scale lexicon built atLabEL1 for Portuguese.
We will concentrate onmultiword expressions (MWE), particularly onmultiword nouns, (i) illustrating their most relevantmorphological features, and (ii) pointing out themethods and techniques adopted to generate  theinflected forms from lemmas.
Moreover, wedescribe a corpus-based aproach for the acquisitionof new multiword nouns, which  led to asignificant enlargement of the existing lexicon.Evaluation results concerning lexical coverage inthe corpus are also discussed.1 IntroductionMWEs have been viewed, for long time, asmarginal idiosyncratic combinations of words.
Inrecent years, however, there has been a growingawareness in the NLP community of the problemsthat MWEs pose and the need for their robusthandling.
Several major conferences and satelliteworkshops have been dedicated to the subject(ACL, EACL, LREC, for instance); majorpublications devote thematic issues to MWEs.Anticipating that growing interest, over the lastyears, a significant part of LabEL?s research hasbeen devoted to the development of large-scale,linguistically precise language resources, namelyto the construction of computational lexicons forsimple  and multiword units (Eleut?rio et al, 1995;Ranchhod et al, 1999; Ranchhod et al, 2004).In fact, we have observed that MWEs are usedfrequently in both everyday language and technicaland scientific texts to express ideas and conceptsthat in general cannot be stated by ?free?
linguisticstructures.
They include a large range of differentlinguistic phenomena, such as: (i) lexicalcompounds (nouns: cellular phone, rush hour, NewJersey; adjectives: well-known; adverbs: for thetime being, in short; prepositions and conjunctions:1LabEL (Laborat?rio de Engenharia da Linguagem)http://label.ist.utl.ptin spite of, in order to) (ii) phrasal verbs (give up);(iii) light verbs (give a lecture); (iv) fixed(proverbs and maxims) and semi-fixed sentences(to see the light at the end of the tunnel; to take theLord?
name in vain).
From a linguistic point ofview, all these expressions exhibit distributionaland selectional constraints, i.e.
they lackcompositionality, and frequently have idiomaticinterpretations.In this paper, we focus on multiword nouns.Special attention will be given to theirformalization and generation, using INTEX, apublic FST (Finite-State Transducer) based NLPsystem [Silberztein, 1993].
In this context, wepresent the main characteristics of a newinflectional module, conceived at LabEL, fullycompatible with this system.
Next, we describe theacquisition methodology used to gather newdictionary entries in a fragment (extracts 1,520,001to 1,567,625) of the non-annotated version of apublic Portuguese corpus, CETEMPublico2.Finally, based on this experiment, we assess, onthe one hand, the  dictionary increase, and, on theother hand, the lexical coverage improvement inthe referred corpus.2 Characterization of Multiword NounsMultiword (or compound) nouns are composed ofnon-capitalized simple words.
Superficially, theyseem to result from general rules of wordcombinations but they present constraints(morphological, combinatorial, etc.)
concerningthe properties they were supposed to have.Regarding inflection, general rules presented bygrammarians do apply to some cases, but mostcompounds exhibit inflectional restrictions ongender or number that cannot be described by themorphological properties of their constituents.Table 1 presents a few examples of the mostrepresentative classes of compound nouns inPortuguese.2CETEMPublico is a journalistic corpus containingabout 180 million words (see Santos and Rocha, 2001for techical information).  	                                                 	        	                           	     !
             "        #"$      "                    Table 1: Some binary compound noun classesThese classes represent binary compounds,comprised of two content words (where one ofthem is a noun), eventually connected by agrammatical word3.The classification criteria are based on thenoun?s internal structures, which are generallyassociated with a characteristic inflectional pattern.For instance, compound nouns belonging to theNA class usually allow the inflection in genderand/or number of both constituents (e.g.
bombaat?mica, bombas at?micas); on the contrary, in themajority of NDN compound nouns, only the firstnoun can inflect (conselho de guerra, conselhos deguerra).In the following sections, further relevantinformation on inflection, formalization andgeneration of inflected forms will be given.3 Formalization of NA and NDN NounsFollowing methods and formalisms introduced atLADL [Gross, 1988; Courtois and  Silberztein,1990], linguistic attributes of simple andmultiword units are systematically encoded indictionaries compatible with INTEX.In this system, compound word entries arehandled depending on their internal structure.
Theyare formalized and processed separately bydifferent programs.In order to simplify the formalization oflinguistic attributes, and make the generationprocess easier, we implemented a new inflectionalmodule compatible with INTEX system.
The mainstrength of this tool is allowing the simultaneousgeneration of all compounds, regardless of theirinternal structure, reusing the inflectional graphsalready built for simple words [Mota,forthcoming].
The morphological constraints arespecified manually, assigning to each constituentthe inflectional code that corresponds to itsinflectional behavior within the compound, asillustrated by the following dictionary entries:actor(N040) secund?rio(A001),N+NA+Hum3Even though less productive than the previousstructures, there are longer multi-word combinationsthat may involve more than one compound form (e.g.cabo de alta tens?o, high-tension electricity cable).ser(N205) humano(A201),N+NA+Humponto(N201) de vista,N+NDN+Preddireitos(N292) de autor,N+NDNIn the first compound, both constituents keeptheir simple word dictionary inflectional code; theyinflect in gender and number, according to thecompound inflectional behavior.On the other hand, the compound noun serhumano inflects only in number, which means thatthe masculine nominal constituent ser preserves itsinflectional code, but the adjectival constituenthumano (which also inflects in gender, as simpleword) receives a new code that just allows itsinflection in number within the compound.In the case of the NDN compounds, aspreviously mentioned, only the head can inflect:ponto de vista inflects in number, so the headreceives a code allowing its inflection; direitos deautor does not inflect (it is an exclusive masculineplural noun), hence the head is assigned aninflectional code that simply transmits these genderand number features to the compound.4 Generation of Inflected FormsThe following example illustrates how the newinflection module uses the dictionary information,briefly presented in the previous section:actor(N040) secund?rio(A001),N+NAInititally, the inflectional module generates theinflected forms of the noun actor, based on theinflectional paradigm described in the graph N040.Then, it combines the resulting inflected nounswith all inflected forms of the adjectivesecund?rio, generated given graph A001.Subsequentely, the combinations that do not verifythe gender and number agreement constraints areeliminated.
Additionally, the constituentinflectional attributes are inherited by thecompound.As a result, the following entries are obtained:actor secund?rio,actor secund?rio.N+NA:msactriz secund?ria,actor secund?rio.N+NA:fsactores secund?rios,actor secund?rio.N+NA:mpactrizes secund?rias,actor secund?rio.N+NA:fpThis example illustrates the case where bothwords that constitute the compound have similarinflectional features.
These attributes are directlytransferred to the inflected forms of the compound.When one of the compound constituents doesnot have either gender or number explicitmorphemes, as artista (which can be either amasculine or a feminine singular form) in thefollowing entry:artista(N101) pl?stico(A001),N+NAthe inflectional module assigns to the compoundthe morphological attributes of the constituent thathas explicit gender and/or number morphems (inthis case, pl?stico).The compounds just illustrated belong to the NAclass4.
The inflection of NDN forms simplycorresponds to the inflection of the head noun andassigment of its attributes to the compoud.5 Acquisition of New EntriesWith the purpose of increasing the number of themost representative nominal entries (NA andNDN)  in the common multiword dictionaries, weused a corpus-based approach.In the first stage, candidates were automaticallyextracted from a fragment of CETEMPublicocorpus (from now on, acquisition corpus), usingINTEX.
After tokenized by INTEX, 6,385,531tokens (corresponding to 138,230 different tokens)were identified in the acquisition corpus.
Fromthose, 5,162,111 (138,174 different forms) arealphabetic words.LabEL?s simple and multiword electronicdictionaries were then applied to the acquisitioncorpus.
These dictionaries contained 171,159nominal entries, from which 82% were simplewords and 18% compounds.
From the 22,581compounds, 61,7% are NA, 33,6% are NDN andthe remaining 4,7% belong to other strucutres.Candidate identification was performed usingthe elementary regular expressions <N>de<N>and (<N:ms><A:ms> + <N:fs><A:fs> +<N:mp><A:mp> +  <N:fp><A:fp>)5.
They matchnominal compounds presenting, respectively, anNDN and an NA structure.
With respect to thelatter structure, the expression also guaranteesmorphological agreement between nouns andadjectives.Such expressions recognized in the acquisitioncorpus 242,527 (187,146 different forms)candidates, from which 117,616 (69,066 differentforms) are NDN structures and 230,761 (118,080different forms) are NA structures.Each class?s candidates were integrated into aconcordance, to which were applied the existingcompound dictionaries.
The resulting list of non-recognized candidates was then manually reviewedby linguists, aiming the selection and linguisticformalization of valid compounds.
Graphic 1reflects the effort involved in the selectionprocedure.4This procedure also applies to other compoundscomposed of two or more elements that inflect (e.g.acidente(N201) vascular(A205) cerebral(A211), stroke).5Regular expressions are written according to theINTEX format.CandDiffCandDiffCandCandnot inDictCandnot inDictCandSelectedCand6,6%SelectedCand20,3%050000100000150000200000250000300000Locate NA Locate NDNGraphic 1: NA and NDN candidatesOne clear observation is that there is a greatdiscrepancy between the initial candidate lists(NA: 238,313; NDN: 116,246) and the finalselected compound forms (NA: 21,289; NDN:3750)6.
The percentage in the graphic wascalculated based on the number of non-recognizeddifferent candidates (NA: 104,715; NDN: 56,741).Another interesting observation regardingGraphic 1 is that the size of the NA candidate listis slightly more than a double of the NDNcandidate list.
Nevertheless, the NA candidate listincludes proportionally more valid compoundforms (NA: 20%; NDN: 7%).
In addition, the finalselected NA compound list contains about fivetimes more entries than the corresponding NDNlist.The selected compound forms resulted in a totalof 19,825 NA and 3,769 NDN canonical entries,which correspond respectively to 41,267 NA and7,722 NDN inflected forms.6 EvaluationBefore lexical acquisition, the application ofLabEL?s lexical resources to the acquistion corpusallowed assigning 94,229 different simple wordtags (34,892 nouns) and 15,120 differentcompound tags (13,594 nouns).
Hence, thecompound noun percentage is low (28%),compared to the number of different nominal tagsassigned to simple forms.
This discrepancy is notunexpected, regarding the low number of nominalcompound entries in dictionaries.As previously mentioned, the gathering of NAand NDN compounds in the acquisition corpus ledto the formalization of 23,594 canonical entries.Accordingly, the inflected form dictionaryincreased approximately 3 to 4 times (more 53,815entries, in a total of 76,396 entries).6In this study, we did not assess the list of candidatesrecognized by dictionaries, which means that we did notcount the hypothetical cases of embedded compoundforms (e.g.
cabo de alta-tens?o, high-tension electricitycable).When we apply the enlarged dictionary to thesame corpus, we observe that the percentage ofcompound nouns with respect to the total ofnominal tags incresead  significantly.
Now, 40,902different compound forms were identified, whichmeans that more than a half of the nouns in thecorpus correspond to multiwords.Considering the compound occurrences in theacquisition corpus, Graphic 2 illustrates theirfrequency distribution.0%5%6%3%4%8%16%58%Occ >100Occ 50-100Occ 10-50Occ 5-10Occ 5Occ 4Occ 3Occ 2Occ 1Graphic 2: Compound noun frequencyIt is important to draw attention to the fact that89% of compound forms occur less than fivetimes; in particular, 58% occur just once.These figures demonstrate that, contrary to whatis observed with simple nouns, which are veryrecurrent in texts, the average number ofcompound occurrences is, in general, extremelylow.
This evidence raises the question whetherstatistical methods, based on frequencies, canadequately handle the majority of compoundforms.Regardless of wether the compound acquisitionhas been done exclusively in a fragment ofCETEMP?blico, the application of the newdictionary to the remaining fragments of thiscorpus also increased the number of tags assignedto compound words.On average, before lexical acquisition about13,000 different compound nouns wererecognized; this number more than doubled(approx.
33,000) when we applied the enlargeddictionaries to the other fragments.
As mentionedbefore, in the acquisition corpus, the number ofcompound tags exceeded the number of simplenoun tags.
So, we may infer that a similar behaviorwould be expected in the remaining fragments, ifthey were also considered.7 Final RemarksIn this paper, we described a new FST-basedcompound inflectional tool.
The main advantage ofthis inflectional module is reusing INTEX simpleword inflectional graphs in the simultaneousgeneration of all compound, regardless of theirinternal structure.
Even though it has only beentested in the formalization and generation ofPortuguese compound nouns, we believe it can beeasily adapted to handle other languages havingsimilar compound inflectional behavior.A corpus-based approach to multiwordacquisition was also presented.
We showed that, inspite of involving human effort, the resultsobtained effectively improved dictionary coverage.Moreover, the results concerning compound nounfrequency raised the question whether statisticalapproaches, based on word frequencies, are(un)adequate to extract multiword nouns fromtexts.8 AknowlegmentsThis work was partially supported by FCT(POSI/39806/PLP/2001; POSI/39806/PLP/2001).ReferencesCarvalho, P.; C. Mota; E. Ranchhod.
2002.
ComplexLexical Units and Automata.
In E. Ranchhod; N.Mamede (eds.)
Advances in Natural LanguageProcessing, LNAI 2389, pp.
229-238, Heidelberg:Springer.Courtois, B. ; M. Silberztein (eds).
1990.
LangueFran?aise, 87, ?Dictionnaires ?lectroniques dufran?ais?, Paris: Larousse.Eleut?rio S.; E. Ranchhod; H. Freire; J. Baptista.
1995.A system of electronic dictionaries of Portuguese.
InLingvisticae Investigationes, XIX:1, pp.
57-82,Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins PublishingCompany.Gross, M. 1997.
The Construction of Local Grammars.In E. Roche; Y. Schabes (eds.
), Finite State LanguageProcessing, pp.
329-352, Cambridge, Mass./London:MIT Press.Mota, C. (forthcoming).
Inflection of the PortugueseDELAS using FST.
In Proceedings of the 4th and 5thINTEX Workshops, Presses Universitaires de Franche-Comt?.Ranchhod, E; C. Mota; J. Baptista.
1999.
AComputational Lexicon of Portuguese for AutomaticText Parsing.
In Proceedings of SIGLEX99:Standardizing Lexical Resources, 37th AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pp.
74-80, Maryland, USA..Ranchhod, E.; P. Carvalho; C. Mota; A. Barreiro.
2004.Portuguese Large-scale Language Resources for NLPApplications.
In Proceedings of 4th LREC, pp.
1755-1758, Lisbon.Santos, D.; P. Rocha.
2001.
Evaluating CETEMP?blico,a free resource for Portuguese.
In Proceedings of the39th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pp.
442-449, Toulouse.Silberztein, M. 1993.
Dictionnaires ?lectroniques etanalyse automatique de textes: le syst?me INTEX,Paris: Masson Ed.
