Multilinguality in ETAP-3: Reuse of Lexical ResourcesIgor BOGUSLAVSKYUniversidad Politecnica de Madrid28660 Boadilla del Monte, Madrid, Spainigor@opera.dia.fi.upm.esLeonid IOMDINInstitute for Information TransmissionProblems, Russian Academy of Sciences19, B. KaretnyjMoscow, GSP-4, Russiaiomdin@cl.iitp.ruVictor SIZOVInstitute for Information Transmission Problems, Russian Academy of Sciences19, B. KaretnyjMoscow, GSP-4, Russiasizov@cl.iitp.ruAbstractThe paper presents the work done at the Institutefor Information Transmission Problems (RussianAcademy of Sciences, Moscow) on themultifunctional linguistic processor ETAP-3.
Itstwo multilingual options are discussed ?
machinetranslation in a variety of language pairs andtranslation to and from UNL, a meaningrepresentation language.For each working language, ETAP has oneintegral dictionary, which is used in allapplications both for the analysis and synthesis(generation) of the given language.
In difficultcases, interactive dialogue with the user is used fordisambiguation.
Emphasis is laid on multiple useof lexical resources in the multilingualenvironment.1 General Information on ETAPThe multifunctional ETAP-3 linguisticprocessor, developed by the ComputationalLinguistics Laboratory (CLL) in Moscow (see e.g.Apresjan et al 1992a,b, 1993, 2003), is the productof more than two decades of laboratory researchand development in the field of languagemodeling.
The most important features of theprocessor are as follows.
(1) ETAP-3 is based on the general linguisticframework of the Meaning ?
Text theory,proposed by Igor Mel?cuk (e.g.
Mel?cuk, 1974)and complemented by the theory of systematiclexicography and integrated description oflanguage proposed by Jurij Apresjan [Apresjan1995, 2000].
(2) ETAP-3 has a declarative organization oflinguistic knowledge.
(3) One of the major components of ETAP-3 isthe innovative combinatorial dictionary.
Apartfrom syntactic and semantic features andsubcategorization frames, the dictionary entry mayhave rules of 8 types.
Many dictionary entriescontain lexical functions (LF).
(3) ETAP-3 makes use of a formalism based onthree-value predicate logic, in which all linguisticdata are presented.
(4) The ETAP-3 processor has a modulararchitecture.
All stages of processing and all typesof linguistic data are organized into modules,which warrants their reusability in many NLPapplications both within and beyond ETAP-3environment.At the moment, the ETAP-3 environmentcomprises the following main options: 1) a rule -based machine translation system; 2) a UniversalNetworking Language (UNL) translation engine;3) a system of synonymous paraphrasing ofsentences; 4) a workbench for syntactic annotationof text corpora; and 5) a grammar checker.
All theapplications make use of the same dictionaries, butonly the first and the second are multilingual.
InSection 2 we will discuss multilingual lexicalresources used in machine translation, and inSection 3 ?
in the UNL module.2 Multilinguality in ETAP2.1 Structure of the Dictionary EntryTo support multilinguality, the dictionary entryof the ETAP dictionary has several sub-zones.There is one general zone and several zonesoriented towards various languages.
The generalzone stores all types of monolingual information:part of speech, syntactic features, semanticfeatures, subcategorization frames, lexicalfunctions, syntactic and pre-syntactic rules,generation rules, and some other data.
Each bi-lingual sub-zone serves for establishingcorrespondence between the given language andanother one (see Fig.
1).For example, the Russian zone of an Englishdictionary entry contains all the informationneeded to translate English words into Russian, theArabic zone provides translation into Arabic, etc.Conversely, the information needed to translateRussian words into English is stored in the Englishzone of the Russian dictionary entries.Fig.
12.2 Default and Specific TranslationThe information stored in a bi-lingual zoneconsists of two parts: a default translation andlexical translation rules.
Default translation is asingle word that translates the given word in non-specific contexts (it is introduced by a speciallabel: TRANS).
Any other type of translation iscarried out by means of rules.
If the word istranslated by a phrase consisting of several words,the rule shows how the words in the phrase areconnected to each other and how this phrase isincorporated into the sentence.
For example, in theentry bachelorship we find a reference to one ofthe standard translation rules (TRADUCT2.42).The slots of the rule are filled with specific lexicalitems, grammatical features or syntactic relations.TRAF:TRADUCT2.42LR1:STEPEN?,LR2:BAKALAVR,T2:SG,T3:QUASIAGENTThe rule says that bachelorship  should betranslated into Russian with a phrase consisting oftwo words ?
stepen?
(?degree?)
and bakalavr(?bachelor?).
These words should be connected bythe quasiagent(ive) syntactic relation, and thenumber feature of bakalavr should be singular.If the word is translated in a specific way in aspecific context or in specific phrases, the ruledescribes this context and the resulting structure.When a word is translated, normally first thetranslation rules in its dictionary entry are tried.
Ifno rule applies in the given sentence, then thedefault translation is used.2.3 Multiple TranslationThe default option of ETAP produces a singletranslation of the sentence ?
the one thatcorresponds to the first lexico-syntactic structureobtained by the parser.
The option of multipletranslation produces much more.
First, it generatesall lexico-syntactic structures that are compatiblewith the grammar and the dictionary.
Since thesestructures are disambiguated both syntactically,and lexically, this set of structures contains alllexical variants for the source sentence.
Then, foreach structure all possible translation variants aretried.
As is known, even disambiguated words canbe translated into another language in differentways and it is not always possible to formulate arule that could select an appropriate variant.
Forexample, English adjuration can be translated intoRussian as mol?ba and as zaklinanie, adventurer ?as avantjurist and as iskatel?
prikljuchenij(literally, ?adventure seeker?
), alarm ?
as trevogaand as avarijnyj signal (?alarm signal?).
In all thesecases, we are most probably dealing with a singlemeaning of the English word and yet translationvariants are not fully synonymous.
Since wecannot choose among these variants by means ofrules and at the same time do not want to lose anyof them, we have to treat them as alternativetranslations to be activated in the ?Multipletranslation?
option.
As mentioned in the previoussection, there are two types of translation devicesin the bilingual zones of the dictionary: a defaulttranslation (a single word) and rules.
In both cases,it is possible to provide alternative translations.
Forexample, in the entry for adjuration alternativetranslations are listed in the default part since bothof them are single words:ADJURATION?TRANS: MOL?BA / ZAKLINANIEIf the user selects the ?Single translation?
option,only the first of these variants will be used.
IfENGLISH WORDGeneral information:- part of speech- syntactic features- semantic features- subcategorization frame- ?Russian zoneArabic zone?UNL zonehe/she wishes to get al possible translations andactivates the ?Multiple translation?
option, bothalternatives will be produced.In the adventurer entry, the alternative translationiskatel?
prikljuchenij should be introduced by arule, since it is not a single word but a phrase.
Suchrules are supplied by a special marker, OPT(ional),which shows that the translation is alternative.ADVENTURER?TRANS: AVANTJURISTTRAF:TRADUCT2.42OPT:1LR1:ISKATEL?2,LR2:PRIKLJUCHENIE,T2:PL,T3: ATTRIBThis is another instance of the same rule that wesaw above in the bachelorship example: the onlydifference is that it introduces different words,connects them with a different syntactic relation(attributive) and generates a different numberfeature.
The marker OPT:1 shows that thetranslation introduced by this rule is less commonthan the default translation avantjurist and shouldbe presented to the user after it.
Should it beotherwise, the rule would have the marker OPT:0and have a priority over the default translation.2.4 Interactive selection of the translationequivalentIt is well known that ambiguity of linguisticunits is one of the most difficult problems in NLP.In ETAP there is no single stage of processing thatexpressly deals with disambiguation.
The sentenceis gradually disambiguated at different stages ofprocessing on the basis of restrictions imposed bythe linguistic knowledge of the system.
However,in many cases this knowledge is not sufficient forcomplete disambiguation, since the understandingof a text by humans is not based on their linguisticknowledge alone.
To cope with this problem, weare developing an interactive option that at certainpivotal points of text processing is expected to askfor human intervention and use human assistanceto resolve those ambiguities that are beyond thescope of linguistic knowledge of the system(Boguslavsky et al2003).
It should be stressed thatthe interactive tool is only resorted to if anambiguity cannot be resolved automatically andtherefore requires human intervention.
This workis in line with the approach proposed in a series ofpublications by the GETA group (Blanchon, 1995,1996, 1997, Boitet & Blanchon, 1995).As mentioned above, the dialogue with the useris activated at different stages of the processingdepending on the tasks solved at each stage.During the parsing, which results in theconstruction of the lexico-syntactic structure of thesentence, all lexical and syntactic ambiguity shouldbe resolved.
However, this is done entirely withinthe processing of the source language text andrepresents monolingua l ambiguity.
It is not directlyrelevant for our topic of multilinguality.
Ofrelevance here are cases of the so-calledtranslational (or transfer) ambiguity (Hutchins,Somers, 1992: 87).
The source language words canbe unambiguous for the native speakers of thislanguage but can be translated by a number ofdifferent target language expressions.
In this sense,they are ambiguous from the viewpoint of thetarget language and have to be dealt with at thetranslation stage.
An example is the English verbwash with respect to Russian.
It translatesdifferently depending on the type of object that isbeing washed: if it is something made of cloth, forexample clothes, a special verb has to be chosen.
Ifthe dictionary provides semantic information onwhat objects are made of, the correct choice of theverb can in principle be made automatically.
Cf.,however, cases like We must wash it where suchinformation is definitely missing.This must be viewed as a relatively inoffensivecase, though, because most sentences will betranslated correctly with the help of a simple rule(and if not, the mistake is not too important).
Thereare many words for which it is much more difficultto write a disambiguation rule.
A notoriousexample is English blue that corresponds to twoRussian adjectives, one meaning ?light blue?
andthe other ?
roughly ?
?dark blue?.
The only way totranslate this word correctly in most of the contextsis to get assistance from the user.
The dialog withthe user is based on the information stored in thedictionary and activated at the appropriatemoment.This is how the interactive disambiguationcurrently works.
The sentence to be translated isentered in the upper window of the ETAPenvironment (Fig.
2)Fig.
2When it comes to translating the word blue, thesystem finds that there are two options and no wayto choose among them and activates the dialogue(Fig.
3).Fig.
3In the dialogue box each option is provided witha short comment and/or example that helps the userchoose among them.
The user has to click theappropriate option (in Fig.
3 ?light blue?
isselected) and the system moves on.
The result ofthe translation of this sentence is shown in Fig.
4.Fig.
4Should we have selected the other option in thedialogue in Fig.
3, the result would have beendifferent (Fig.
5).Fig.
5It is important to note that the interactivedisambiguation mode fully corresponds to themultiple translation possibilities discussed in theprevious section.
In particular, the dialogue takesinto account all types of alternative translationsirrespective of the way they are presented in thedictionary.
It can be lexical or syntactic ambiguitythat manifests itself in different lexico-syntacticstructures of the source sentence, one-wordtranslation variants within the same lexicalmeaning (of the adjuration type discussed above)or more complex phrases that translate a sourceword (of the adventurer type above).3 UNL module in ETAPOne of ETAP-3 options is translation betweenRussian and the Universal Networking Language(UNL), put forward by H. Uchida of the UnitedNations University.
Full specification of UNL andreferences to publications can be found athttp://www.undl.org.UNL is a formal language intended to representinformation in a way that allows the generation ofa text expressing this information in a largenumber of natural languages.
A UNL expression isan oriented hyper-graph that corresponds to a NLsentence in the amount of information conveyed.The arcs are interpreted as semantic relations likeagent, object, time, place, manner, etc.
The nodesare special units, the so-called Universal Words(UW), interpreted as concepts, or groups of UWs.The concepts are built on the basis of English.When needed, English concepts can be modifiedby means of semantic restrictions in order to matchbetter with the concepts of other languages.
Thenodes can be supplied with attributes whichprovide additional information on their use in thegiven sentence, e.g.
@imperative, @generic,@future, @obligation.3.1 ArchitectureSince ETAP-3 is an NLP system based on richlinguistic knowledge, it is natural to maximally re-use its knowledge base and the whole architectureof the system in all applications.
Our approach toUNL (described in Boguslavsky et al 2000) is tobuild a bridge between UNL and one of theinternal representations of ETAP, namelyNormalized Syntactic Structure (NormSS), and inthis way link UNL with all other levels of textrepresentation, including the conventionalorthographic form of the text.The level of NormSS is best suited forestablishing correspondence with UNL, as UNLexpressions and NormSS show strong similarities.The most important of them are as follows:a) Both UNL expressions and NormSSs occupyan intermediate position between the surface andthe semantic levels of representation.
They roughlycorrespond to the so-called deep-syntactic level.
Atthis level the meaning of lexical items is notdecomposed into semantic primitives, and therelations between lexical items are languageindependent.b) The nodes of both UNL expressions andNormSSs are terminal elements (UWs in UNL vs.lexical items in NormSS) and not syntacticcategories.c) The nodes carry additional characteristicsused in particular to convey grammaticalinformation (attributes).d) The arcs of both structures are non-symmetrical dependencies.At the same time, UNL expressions andNormSSs differ in several important respects:a) All nodes of NormSSs are lexical items, whilea node of a UNL expression can be a sub-graph.b) Nodes of a NormSS always correspond to oneword sense, while UWs may either be broader ornarrower than the corresponding English words.c) A NormSS is a tree, while a UNL expressionis a hyper-graph, which is a much morecomplicated object.
Its arcs may form loops andconnect sub-graphs.d) The relations between the nodes in a NormSSare purely syntactic and are not supposed toconvey a meaning of their own, while UNLrelations denote semantic roles.e) Attributes of a NormSS mostly correspond togrammatical elements, while UNL attributes oftenconvey a meaning that is expressed in English orother natural languages by means of lexical items(e.g.
modals).Fig.
6UNL StructureEnglish NormalizedSyntactic StructureRussian NormalizedSyntactic StructureRussian SurfaceSyntactic StructureRussian MorphologicalStructureRussian SentenceEnglish SurfaceSyntactic StructureEnglish MorphologicalStructureEnglish Sentencef) A NormSS contains information on the wordorder, while a UNL expression does not sayanything to this effect.These differences and similarities make the taskof establishing a bridge between UNL andNormSS far from trivial but feasible.
Between thetwo types of NormSS readily available in ETAP ?the Russian and the English one ?
we have chosenthe latter, since it is the English concepts thatserve for UNL as building blocks.The architecture of the UNL module of ETAP-3is given in Fig.
6.3.2 UNL vs. English vs. RussianAs shown in Fig.
6, the interface between UNLand Russian is established at the level of theEnglish NormSS.
It ensures the maximum reuseof ETAP?s English-to-Russian machinetranslation facility.In the simple case, this scenario suggests thatthe UNL ?
Natural Language link can be localizedwithin the English dictionary.
This dictionary willonly provide an English correspondence to UNL,which in most cases is not very difficult, and allthe rest will be taken care of by the translationengine of ETAP.
In this case, direct link betweenRussian and UNL is not needed at all, as long asETAP covers the English-to-Russiancorrespondence.However, the situation is not that simple.
If wetry to look at one language (Russian) through theperspective of another one (English), weencounter well-known problems.
Let us illustratethe issue with an example.
In Russian, there is noneutral equivalent of the English non-causativeverb to marry as represented in sentences likeJohn married Ann in June.
The expression thatexactly corresponds to this English verb ?
vstupat?v brak (?to contract a marriage?)
?
is an officialterm and is not used in everyday life.
Instead,Russian speakers make use of two differentexpressions: zhenit?sja, if the agent of the action isa male, and vyxodit?
zamuzh, if it is a female.Since the English and the Russian words differ intheir meaning, they correspond to different UWs.The UW for English to marry looks like (1), whileRussian expressions have UNL equivalents with amore narrow meaning ?
(2) and (3), respectively(for simplicity?s sake, only the relevant fragmentsof the UWs are given):(1) marry(agt>human)(2) marry(agt>male)(3) marry(agt>female)(Here agt stands for ?agent?
).Suppose the UNL expression that we receive atthe input of our generator contains UW (2).
Sincewe have to pass through English, we must firsttranslate this concept into English and thentranslate the English word into Russian.
ButEnglish has no direct equivalent of (2).
It only hasa word with a more general meaning ?
to marry.If our objective were to get the English text, thisword would be perfectly in place.
But since ourtarget language is Russian, we cannot stop hereand have to make a difficult choice between twodifferent Russian equivalents.This is exactly the problem that faces anytranslator from English into Russian, human ormachine.
Sometimes such a problem can be easilysolved with the help of the context, sometimes itis less easy to solve or even unsolvable.
Forexample, in the case of blue vs. goluboj ?
sinijdiscussed in 2.4 the context would hardly help tochoose an appropriate Russian translation.However, in our example (2) the UNL sourceexpression provides unambiguous informationthat allows avoiding this problem altogether, sincethe UW has only one correlate in Russian.
If wepass from UNL to English and lose sight of theUNL source, we will lose the control of thesemantic information and the quality of the outputwill deteriorate.
This should not be permitted.
Oursolution to this problem is presented in 3.3.In view of the above, it may seem that a betteridea would be to sacrifice the benefit of reuse andestablish a direct link between UNL and Russian.However, the architecture shown in Fig.
6 hastwo more advantages that seem crucial.First, this architecture allows us to make theUNL module of ETAP multilingual, that is to linkUNL not only with Russian but also with English.In view of this perspective, it is reasonable toproduce a full-fledged English NormSS that ismuch closer to UNL than the Russian one.Second, the stock of the UNL concepts iscontinuously growing through the contributionscoming from diverse languages.
The UNLdictionaries of different languages grow atdifferent rates and in different directions.
Veryoften, the generator of language L1 receives theUNL input produced by the UNL group oflanguage L2 that contains UWs that are absentfrom the UNL-to-L1 dictionary.
This happensparticularly often with the so called multi-wordUWs of the type(4) International Research and TrainingInstitute for the Advancement of Women(pof>General Assembly {(pof>UnitedNations)}).If our only source of lexical knowledge werethe UNL ?
Russian dictionary, we would not beable to interpret such UWs, had they not beenintroduced in this dictionary in advance.Our UNL-to-English architecture provides auniversal solution to all difficulties of this kind.
Ifthe UW is not listed in the UNL dictionariy ofETAP, it is analyzed by means of the ETAPEnglish dictionary and, if it is a multi-wordexpression, the English parser, which results in areasonably good representation of the UW.Moreover, it is often possible to correctlytranslate a UW that is absent from ETAP?s UNLdictionary even if its headword is ambiguous.
Forexample, if we receive UW(5) open(mod<thing)and do not find it in our UNL dictionary, we canreplace it with the English word that stands in theposition of the headword, that is open.
However,this headword is ambiguous.
In ETAP?s Englishdictionary there are three entries for open - theadjective, the verb and the noun.
A simple ruleallows selecting the correct entry on the basis ofthe UW restriction: (mod<thing) means that theheadword serves as a modifier of things.
Hence,its English correlate is an adjective and not a verbor a noun.3.3 UNL dictionary vs. English dictionary vs.Russian dictionaryThe UNL-related information is distributedamong the three ETAP dictionaries: UNL, Englishand Russian.
The general idea is to combine (a)the idea of having the English NormSS as anintermediate level between UNL and the RussianNormSS and as a source of Russian and Englishgeneration and (b) the requirement of adequatelytreating cases of non-isomorphism between theEnglish and the Russian concepts.As shown in section 2.1, the ETAP dictionaryentry contains several bilingual sub-zones,according to the number of working languages.
Inparticular, the Russian dictionary has sub-zonesfor English and UNL, the English dictionary ?
forRussian and UNL and the UNL dictionary ?
forEnglish and Russian.Let us consider two cases: (1) the Russian andthe English words are synonymous (as, forexample, to divorce and razvodit?sja) and (2) theyare not synonymous (as, for example, to marryand zhenit?sja).The relevant fragments of the dictionary entries(with some simplifications) are as follows.UNL dictionary:NAME: divorce(agt>human)ZONE:ENTRANS: divorceZONE:RU<none>NAME: marry(agt>human)ZONE:ENTRANS: marryZONE:RU<none>NAME: marry(agt>male)ZONE:EN<none>ZONE:RUTRANS: zhenit?sjaEnglish dictionaryNAME: divorceZONE: RUTRANS: razvodit?sjaZONE:UNLTRANS: divorce(agt>human)NAME: marryZONE: RUTRANS: zhenit?sja / vyxodit?
zamuzhZONE:UNLTRANS: marry(agt>human)Russian dictionaryNAME: razvodit?sjaZONE: ENTRANS: divorceZONE:UNLTRANS: divorce(agt>human)NAME: zhenit?sjaZONE: ENTRANS: marryZONE:UNLTRANS: marry(agt>human)Suppose we have to process a UNL expressionthat contains UW ?divorce(agt>human)?.
Sincethis concept corresponds to both English andRussian words, we can do safely without anyinformation on the Russian word in the UNLdictionary and obtain the NormSS with English todivorce taken from the English zone of the UNLentry.
This NormSS allows generating bothEnglish and Russian texts by means of thestandard ETAP transfer and generation facilities.Let us consider the source UNL expression thatcontains UW ?marry(agt>human)?.
It may havecome from the language that, like English,German or Spanish, but unlike Russian or Polish,does not distinguish between the male -marriageand the female-marriage.
The UNL dictionaryentry for this UW will have the English translationbut no Russian one, since Russian has no directcorrelate for this concept.
The problem of findingan appropriate Russian term is shifted to the levelof the NormSS.
At this level, we will have to findan equivalent of English to marry, just as if wetranslated from English and not from UNL.
In thiscase, the UNL source does not help us make achoice between two types of marriage.
What doeshelp is the mechanism of the interactive resolutionof translational ambiguity described above, in 2.4.Finally, let us examine the most interesting case- a UNL expression with UW ?marry(agt>male)?.The dictionary entry of this UW is symmetric tothe entry of ?marry(agt>human)?
: it contains aRussian correlate but no English one.
In thissituation, both English and Russian generationsare not quite straightforward.
As there is no directEnglish equivalent of this UW, the translationshould be found by means of the UNL KnowledgeBase (Uchida, 2003).
In the absence of theoperational version of KB, the general solution forprocessing an unknown UW is to extract theheadword of the UW (marry) and treat it as anEnglish word (cf.
above, 3.2).
This solves theproblem of the generation of the English text.
Asfor Russian, zhenit?sja indicated in the Russianzone of the UW entry is attached as a feature tothe English node marry.
At the stage of transferfrom NormSS-English to NormSS-Russian, thisfeature will be lexicalized and replace the wordmarry.4 ConclusionThe organization of lexical resources of theETAP system allows reusing the dictionaries indiverse applications, such as machine translationin various language pairs and translation to andfrom UNL.
In all the applications, there are threemodes of operation supported by the dictionaries:automatic production of a single (most probable)translation, automatic production of all possibletranslations and the interactive translation with thedialogue-based disambiguation.ReferencesApresjan Ju.D., Boguslavskij I.M., Iomdin L.L.,Lazurskij A.V., Mitjushin L.G., Sannikov, V.Z.,Cinman, L.L.
(1992) Lingvisticheskij processordlja slozhnyx informacionnyx sistem.
[Alinguistic processor for advanced informationsystems.]
Moskva, Nauka.
256 p.Apresjan Ju.D., Boguslavskij I.M., Iomdin L.L.,Lazurskij A.V., Sannikov V.Z.
and TsinmanL.L.
1992b.
The Linguistics of a MachineTranslation System.
Meta , 37 (1): 97-112.Apresjan Ju.D., Boguslavskij I.M., Iomdin L.L.,Lazurskij A.V., Sannikov V.Z.
and TsinmanL.L.
1993.
Systeme de traduction automatique{ETAP}.
In: La Traductique.
P.Bouillon andA.Clas (eds).
Montreal, Les Presses del'Universite de Montreal.Apresjan, Ju.D.
1995.
Integral?noe opisaniejazyka i sistemnaja leksikografija [AnIntegrated Description of Language andSystematic lexicography.]
Moscow, Jazykirusskoj kul?tury.Apresjan, Ju.
D. 2000.
Systematic Lexicography.Oxford University Press, London, 304 p.Apresian Ju., I. Boguslavsky, L. Iomdin, A.Lazursky, V. Sannikov, V. Sizov, L. Tsinman.2003.
ETAP-3 Linguistic Processor: a Full-Fledged NLP Implementation of the MTT.
In:MTT 2003, First International Conference onMeaning ?
Text Theory.
Paris, Ecole NormaleSuperieure, Paris, 279-288.Blanchon, H. Interagir pour traduire: la TAOpersonnelle pour redacteur monolingue.
LaTribune des Industries de la Langues.
Vol.
17-18-19, 1995, pp.
28-34.Blanchon, H. A Customizable InteractiveDisambiguation Methodology and TwoImplementations to Disambiguate French andEnglish Input.
Proc.
MIDDIM'96.
Le col deporte, Isere, France.
12-14 Aout 1996.
Vol.
1/1,1996, pp.
190-200.Blanchon, H. Interactive Disambguation ofNatural Language Input: a Methodology andTwo Implementations for French and English.Proc.
IJCAI-97.
Nagoya, Japan.
August 23-29,1997.
Vol.
2/2, 1997, pp.
1042-1047Boguslavsky I., N. Frid, L. Iomdin, L. Kreidlin, I.Sagalova, V. Sizov.
2000.
Creating a UniversalNetworking Language Module within anAdvanced NLP System.
Proceedings of the 18thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING 2000), 2000, 83-89.Boguslavsky I., L. Iomdin, V. Sizov.
2003.Interactive enconversion by means of theETAP-3 system.
In ?Proceedings of theInternational Conference on the Convergence ofKnowledge, Culture, Language and InformationTechnologies?, Alexandria, 2003.Boitet, C. & Blanchon, H. Multilingual Dialogue-Based MT for monolingual authors: the LIDIAproject and a first mockup.
MachineTranslation.
Vol.
9(2), 1995, pp 99-132.Hutchins W. J., H. L. Somers.
1992.
AnIntroduction to Machine Translation.
AcademicPress, London.Mel?cuk I.
1974.
Opyt teorii lingvisticheskixmodelej ?Smysl ?
Tekst?.
Moscow, ?Nauka?Publishers.Uchida H. 2003.
The UW Manual.http://www.undl.org.
