Representation and Treatment of Multiword Expressions in BasqueI?aki Alegria, Olatz Ansa, Xabier ArtolaNerea Ezeiza, Koldo Gojenola and Ruben UrizarIxa GroupUniversity of the Basque Country649 pk E-20.080Donostia.
Basque Countryrubenu@sc.ehu.esAbstractThis paper describes the representation ofBasque Multiword Lexical Units and theautomatic processing of MultiwordExpressions.
After discussing and statingwhich kind of multiword expressions weconsider to be processed at the currentstage of the work, we present therepresentation schema of thecorresponding lexical units in a general-purpose lexical database.
Due to itsexpressive power, the schema can dealnot only with fixed expressions but alsowith morphosyntactically flexibleconstructions.
It also allows us tolemmatize word combinations as a unitand yet to parse the componentsindividually if necessary.
Moreover, wedescribe HABIL, a tool for the automaticprocessing of these expressions, and wegive some evaluation results.
This workmust be placed in a general framework ofwritten Basque processing tools, whichcurrently ranges from the tokenizationand segmentation of single words up tothe syntactic tagging of general texts.1 Introduction2Most texts are rich in multiword expressions,which must be necessarily processed if we wantany NLP tool to perform accurately.
Jackendoff(1997) estimates that their number in the speakers'lexicon ?is of the same order of magnitude as thenumber of single words?.There is no agreement among authors about thedefinition of the term Multiword Expression.However, in this article, Multiword Expressions(hereafter MWE) refer to any word combinationsranging from idioms, over proper names,compounds, lexical and grammaticalcollocations?
to institutionalized phrases.
MWEscomprise both semantically compositional andnon-compositional combinations, and bothsyntactically regular and idiosyncratic phrases,including complex named entities such as propernouns, dates and number expressions (see section2).In contrast, Multiword Lexical Units (hereafterMWLU) comprise lexicalized phrases ?semantically non-compositional or syntacticallyidiosyncratic word combinations?
which arerepresented and stored in the lexical database ofBasque (EDBL).The remaining sections are organized asfollows.
Section 2 presents the main features ofMWEs in Basque, and defines which are currentlyconsidered for automatic processing.
Section 3describes the representation of MWLUs in thelexical database.
Section 4 is devoted to thedescription and evaluation of the automatictreatment of MWEs by means of HABIL.
Section5 summarizes future work.
And, finally, section 6outlines some conclusions.Multiword Expressions in theprocessing of real texts in BasqueThe definition of the term Multiword Expressionand the types of such MWEs to be treated in NLPmay vary considerably depending on the purposesor "the depth of processing being undertaken"(Copestake et al, 2002).
Multiword itself is aSecond ACL Workshop on Multiword Expressions: Integrating Processing, July 2004, pp.
48-55vague term.
At text level, a word could be definedas "any string of characters between two blanks"(Fontenelle et al, 1994).
This is not applicable tolanguages as Japanese, which are typically writtenwithout spaces.
Besides, a great number of MWEsthat in uninflected languages would be multiword,constitute a single typographic unit in agglutinativelanguages such as Basque (ziurrenik 'mostprobably', aurrerantzean 'from now on', aurretiaz'in advance').
Therefore, we consider them singlewords and they are included in the lexical databaseas such (or recognized by means of morphologicalanalysis).In our case, when deciding which BasqueMWEs to include in the database, we mostly relyon lexicographers' expertise since we considerlexicalized phrases have a top priority for bothlemmatizing and syntactic purposes.
So, theMWEs dealt with in the database comprise fixedexpressions, which admit no morphosyntactic orinternal modification ?including foreignexpressions such as in situ, a priori, strictu sensu,etc.
?, idioms, both decomposable and non-decomposable, and lexicalized compounds.
Wealso consider light verb constructions when theyare syntactically idiosyncratic.However, currently we do not treat opencollocations, proverbs, catch phrases and similes.Mostly, we don't include proper names in thedatabase either, since complex named entities aregiven a separate treatment.
Apart from propernouns, also dates and number expressions aretreated separately (see 4.1).So far we have described 2,270 MWLUs in ourdatabase.
This work has been carried out in twophases.
For the first phase, we made use of theStatistical Corpus of 20th Century Basque(http://www.euskaracorpusa.net) that containsabout 4.7 million words.
As a starting point, wechose the MWLUs that occurred more than 10times in this manually lemmatized corpus.
Thisamounted to about 1,300 expressions.
For thesecond phase, this list has been enlarged using theHiztegi Batua, a dictionary of standard Basque thatthe Basque Language Academy updates regularly(http://www2.euskaltzaindia.net/hiztegibatua).2.13Main features of lexicalized phrasesMany of the lexicalized phrases are semanticallynon-compositional (or partially compositional), i.e.they can hardly be interpreted in terms of themeaning of their constituents (adarra jo 'to pullsomeone's leg', literally 'to play the horn').Often, a component of these sequences hardlyoccurs in any other context and it is difficult toassign it a part of speech.
For example, the wordnoizik is an archaism of modern noiztik 'fromwhen', which occurs just in the expressions noizikbehin, noizik behinean, noizik noizera, and noizikbehinka all meaning 'once in a while'.
Besides, it isnot clear which is the part of speech of the wordslaprast in laprast egin 'to slip' or dir-dir in dir-diregin 'to shine'.From a syntactic point of view, many of theseMWEs present an unusual structure.
For example,many complex verbs in Basque are light verbconstructions, being the meaning of the compoundquite compositional, e.g.
lo egin 'to sleep' literally'to make (a) sleep' or lan egin 'to work' literally 'tomake (a) work'.
However, lo egin and lan egin canbe considered 'syntactically idiomatic' since thenouns in these expressions, lo and lan, take nodeterminer, which would be completelyungrammatical for a noun functioning as a regulardirect object (*arroz jan nuen 'I ate rice').Morphosyntactic flexibility, being significant inthis type of constructions in Basque, may varyconsiderably.
For example in lo egin 'to sleep' thenoun lo admits modification (lo asko egin zuen 'heslept very much') and may take the partitiveassignment (ez dut lorik egin 'I haven't slept') whilethe verb egin can be subject to focalization (eginduzu lorik bart?
'did you sleep at all last night?
');besides, the components of the construction maychange positions and some elements and phrasesmay be placed between them (mendian egin omenzuen lasai lo 'it is said that he slept peacefully inthe mountain').
In contrast, alde egin 'to escape' ismorphosyntactically quite rigid.
In all the cases,the verb egin can take any inflection.For our database, we have worked out a singlerepresentation that covers all MWLUs rangingfrom fixed expressions to these of highestmorphosyntactic flexibility.Representation of MWLUs in the lexicaldatabaseIn this section we explain how MWLUs arerepresented in EDBL (Aldezabal et al, 2001), alexical database oriented to language processingthat currently contains more than 80,000 entries,out of which 2,270 are MWLUs.
Among these:?
~69% are always unambiguous.
The averagenumber of Surface Realization Schemas(SRS, see section 3.2) is 1.02.?
~23% are sometimes unambiguous and have3.6 SRSs in average, half of themambiguous.?
~8% are always ambiguous and have 1.2SRSs in average.We want to point out that almost all of theunambiguous MWLUs have only one SRS, theircomponents appearing in contiguous positions andalways in the same order.
About half of them areinflected, so, even if we discard the interpretationsof the components, there is still somemorphosyntactic ambiguity left.
However, theidentification of these MWLUs helps indisambiguation, as the input of tagging is moreprecise.The description of MWLUs within a general-purpose lexical database must include, at least, twoaspects (see Figure 1): (1) their composition, i.e.which the components of the MWLU are, whethereach of them can be inflected or not, and accordingto which one-word lexical unit (OWLU 1 ) itinflects; and (2), what we call the surfacerealization, that is, the order in which thecomponents may occur in the text, the mandatoryor optional contiguousness of components, and theinflectional restrictions applicable to each one ofthe components.3.1CompositionAs it has just been said, the description of thecomposition of MWLUs in EDBL gathers twoaspects: on the one side, it depicts which theindividual components of a MWLU are; on theother side, it links the inflectable components of aMWLU to the corresponding OWLU according towhich each of them inflects.In Figure 1, we can see that the composed ofrelationship links every MWLU to up to 9individual components (MWLU_Components).Each component is characterized by the followingattributes:1 We consider OWLUs lexical units with no spaces within itsorthographical form; so, we also take hyphenated compoundsas OWLUs.?
Component_Position: this indicatesthe position of the component word-form inthe canonical form of the MWLU.?
Component_Form: i.e.
the word-formitself as it appears in the canonical form ofthe MWLU.?
Conveys_Morph_Info?
: this is aBoolean value, indicating whether thecomponent inflection conveys themorphological information corresponding tothe whole MWLU or not2.
(0,n)(1,1)(1,1)(1,n)(2,9)(1,1)MWLUsSurface_Realization_SchemasOrder_ContiguousnessSurenessInflection_RestrictionsMWLU_ComponentsComponent_PositionComponent_FormConveys_Morph_Info?OWLUscorresp.SR schemasinflectsaccording tocomposed ofFigure 1.
Composition and surface realization ofMWLUs.Moreover, the components of a MWLU arelinked to its corresponding OWLU (according towhich it inflects).
This is represented by means ofthe inflects according to relationship(see Figure 1).2 The morphological information that the attribute refers to isthe set of morphological features the inflection takes in thecurrent component instance.These two aspects concerning the compositionof a MWLU are physically stored in a single tableof the relational database in which EDBL resides.The columns of the table are the following:Entry, Homograph_Id, Component_Position, Component_Form, Conveys_Morph_Info?, OWLU_Entry, and OWLU_Homograph_Id.
In the example below, thecomposition of the MWLU begi bistan egon 'to beevident' is described.
Note that one row is used percomponent:<begi bistan egon, 0, 1, begi, -, begi, 2><begi bistan egon, 0, 2, bistan, -, bista, 1><begi bistan egon, 0, 3, egon, +, egon, 1>This expression allows different realizationssuch as begi bistan dago 'it is evident' (literally 'itis at reach of the eyes'), begi bistan daude 'they areevident', begien bistan egon, 'to be evident', etc.
Inthe table rows above, it can be seen that the lastcomponent egon 1 'to be' conveys themorphological information for the whole MWLU(+ in the corresponding column).3.2 Surface realizationAs for surface realization, we have alreadymentioned that the components of a MWLU canoccur in a text either contiguously or dispersed.Besides, the order of the constituents may be fixedor not, and they may either inflect or occur in aninvariable form.
In the case of inflectedcomponents, some of them may accept anyinflection according to its corresponding OWLU,whilst others may only inflect in a restricted way.Moreover, some MWLUs are unambiguous andsome are not, since it cannot be certainly assuredthat the very same sequence of words in a textcorresponds undoubtedly to a multiword entry inevery context.
For example, in the sentence Emilekburuaz baiezko keinu bat egin zuen 'Emile noddedhis head' the words bat and egin do not correspondto the complex verb bat egin 'to unite' but to twoseparate phrases.According to these features, we use a formaldescription where different realization patternsmay be defined for each MWLU.
The corresp.SR schemas relationship in Figure 1 links everyMWLU to one or more Surface_Realiza-tion_Schemas.
Each SRS is characterized bythe following attributes:?
Order_Contiguousness: an expressionthat indicates both the order in which thecomponents may appear in the differentinstances of the MWLU and thecontiguousness of these components.
Inthese expressions the position of the digitsindicate the position each component takesin a particular SRS, * indicates that 0 ormore words may occur between twocomponents, and ?
indicates that at mostone single word may appear between twogiven components of the MWLU.?
Unambiguousness: a Boolean value,indicating whether the particular SRScorresponds to an unambiguous MWLU ornot.
It expresses whether the sequence ofwords matching this SRS must beunambiguously analyzed as an instance ofthe MWLU or, on the contrary, may beanalyzed as separate OWLUs in somecontexts.?
Inflection_Restrictions: anexpression that indicates the inflectionparadigm according to which the MWLUmay inflect in this specific SRS.
In theseexpressions each component of the MWLUis represented by one list component (in thesame order as the components of theMWLU appear in its canonical form): %indicates that the whole inflection paradigmof the corresponding inflectable componentmay occur; the minus sign (-) is used fornon-inflectable components (no inflection atall may occur); finally, a logical expression(and, or, and not are allowed) composedof attribute-value pairs is used to express theinflectional restrictions and themorphotactics the component undergoes inthis particular SRS of the MWLU (inbrackets in the examples below).In the examples below, it can be seen that onerow is used per SRS.
The columns of the table arethe following: Entry, Homograph_Id, Or-der_Contiguousness, Unambiguousness,and Inflection_Restrictions:<begi bistan egon, 0, 123, +,(((CAS=ABS) and (DEF=-)) or((CAS=GEN) and (NUM=PL)), -, %)><begi bistan egon, 0, 312, +,(((CAS=ABS) and (DEF=-)) or((CAS=GEN) and (NUM=PL)), -, %)><begi bistan egon, 0, 3?12, +,(((CAS=ABS) and (DEF=-)), -, %)>The first SRS matches occurrences such as begibistan dago hau ez dela aski 'it is evident that it isnot enough' or begien bistan zegoen honelabukatuko genuela 'it was evident that we wouldend up this way', where the components arecontiguous and the analysis as an instance of theMWLU would be unambiguous.
This SRS allowsthe inflection of the first component as absolutivecase (non-definite) or as genitive (plural), and thewhole set of inflection morphemes of the third one.The third SRS matches occurrences such as ezdago horren begi bistan 'it is not so evident', wherethe components are not contiguous (at most oneword is allowed between the ?third?
componentand the ?first one?)
and they occur in a non-canonical order: 3?12.
In this case, theinterpretation as an instance of the MWLU wouldalso be unambiguous.
However, this SRS onlyallows the inflection of the first component asabsolutive case (non-definite).3.34Different information requirements inlemmatization and syntax processingThe first prototype for the treatment of MWEs inBasque HABIL (Ezeiza et al, 1998; Ezeiza, 2003)was built for lemmatization purposes.
However,we are nowadays involved in the construction of adeep syntactic parser (Aduriz et al, 2004) and theMWEs seem to need a different treatment.
The factthat many MWEs may be syntactically regular but,above all, that an external element may have adependency relation with one of the constituents,forces us to analyze the elements independently.For example, in the verb beldur izan 'to be afraid(of)' an external noun phrase may have a modifier-noun dependency relation with beldur 'fear' as insugeen beldur naiz 'I'm afraid of snakes'.
In loakhartu 'to fall asleep' there is a subject-verb relationas in loak hartu nau 'I have fallen asleep', literally'sleep has caught me'; therefore subject-auxiliaryverb agreement would fade if both componentswere analyzed as one.The MWLU representation we have adoptedallows us to lemmatize the word combination as aunit and yet to parse the components individuallywhenever necessary.
In order to do so, whendescribing each MWLU, we specify whether theelements in the MWLU must be analyzedseparately or not3.Treatment of multiword expressionsMWEs could be treated at different stages of thelanguage process.
Some approaches treat them attokenization stage, identifying fixed phrases, suchas prepositional phrases or compounds, included ina list (Carmona et al, 1998; Karlsson et al, 1995).Other approaches rely on morphological analysisto better identify the features of the MWE usingfinite state technology (Breidt et al, 1996).Finally, there is another approach that identifiesthem after the tagging process, allowing thecorrection of some tagging errors (Leech et al,1994).All of these approaches are based on the use ofa closed set of MWLUs that could be included in alist or a database.
However, some groups of MWEsare not subject to be included in a database,because they comprise an open class ofexpressions.
That is the case of collocations,compounds or named entities.
The group ofcollocations and compounds should be delimitedusing statistical approaches, such as Xtract(Smadja, 1993) or LocalMax (Silva et al, 1999),so that only the most relevant?those of higherfrequency?
are included in the database.Named entity recognition task has been solvedfor a large set of languages.
Most of these worksare linked to the Message UnderstandingConference (Chinchor, 1997).
There is a variety ofmethods that have been used in NE recognition,such as HMM, Maximum Entropy Models,Decision Trees, Boosting and Voted Perceptron(Collins, 2002), Syntactic Structure basedapproaches and WordNet-based approaches(Magnini et al, 2002; Ar?valo, 2002).
Mostreferences on NE task might be accessed athttp://www.muc.saic.com.4.1Processing MWEs with HABILWe have implemented HABIL, a tool for thetreatment of multiword expressions (MWE), based3  Currently we are studying the MWLUs in the lexicaldatabase in order to determine which of them deserve to beparsed as separate elements.
We have not defined yet how thiswill be formally represented in the database.on the features described in the lexical database.The most important features of HABIL are thefollowing:?
It deals with both contiguous and splitMWEs.?
It takes into account all the possible ordersof the components (SRS).?
It checks that inflectional restrictions arecomplied with.?
It generates morphosyntactic interpretationsfor the MWE.This tool has two different components: on theone hand, there is a searching engine that identifiesMWEs along the text, and, on the other hand, thereis a morphosyntactic processor that assigns thecorresponding interpretations to the components ofthe MWE.The morphosyntactic processor generates theinterpretations for MWEs using category andsubcategory information in the lexical database.When one of the components adds information tothe MWE, the processor applies pattern-matchingtechniques to extract the correspondingmorphological features of the analyses of thatcomponent, and these features are included in theinterpretation of the MWE.
Then, it replaces all themorphosyntactic interpretations of the componentsof unambiguous MWEs with the MWEinterpretations.
When MWEs are ambiguous, thenew interpretations are added to the existing ones.HABIL also identifies and treats dates andnumerical expressions.
As they make up an openclass, they are not obviously included in the lexicaldatabase.
Furthermore, their components arealways contiguous, have a very strict structure, anduse a closed lexicon.
Thus, it is quite easy toidentify them using simple finite state transducers.For the morphosyntactic treatment of dates andnumerical expressions, we use the morphosyntacticcomponent of HABIL.
These expressions mayappear inflected and, in this case, the lastcomponent adds morphosyntactic features to theMWE.
Finally, as they are unambiguousexpressions, the processor discards theinterpretations of the components and assigns themall the interpretations of the whole expression.4.2 EvaluationWe performed several experiments using 650unambiguous, contiguous and ordered MWEs.
Wetreated a reference corpus of around 36,000 tokensand there were 386 instances of 149 differentMWEs.
We also applied this process to a small testcorpus of around 7,100 tokens in which there were87 instances of 45 MWEs.
Taking both corporainto account, there were 473 instances of 167different MWEs, which amounted to 25% of theexpressions considered, and 50% of the instanceswere ambiguous.
Besides, only 14 dates and 12numerical expressions were found in the referencecorpus, and 18 dates and 9 numerical expressionsin the test corpus.AmbiguityRateInterpretationsper TokenRecallword-forms:beforeafter81.78%79.83%3.373.3099.31%99.31%alltokens:beforeafter67.47%65.86%2.962.8999.43%99.43%Table 1.
Results of HABIL.The ambiguity measures of the test corpus areshown in Table 1.
The ambiguity rate of word-forms decreases by 2% and the average ambiguityrate by 1.5% after the processing of MWEs.
It isimportant to point out that no error is made alongthe process.
Furthermore, some important MWEs,more specifically, some complex sentenceconnectors that have highly ambiguouscomponents, are correctly disambiguated.Bearing in mind the proportion of words treatedby HABIL, these results help significantly inimproving precision results of tagging andavoiding almost 10% of the errors, as shown inTable 2.Precision Errorbefore MWE processing 94.96% 5.04%after MWE processing 95.42% 4.58%Table 2.
Tagging results.5 Future workAfter confirming the viability of the system and thegood results in POS tagging, our main goal is toincrease the number of MWLUs in the database,which will improve the identification of MWEs incorpora.A remaining difficulty that we are facing is theproblem of ambiguous split MWEs.
At present, weare creating a disambiguation grammar that willdiscard or select the multiword interpretations inambiguous MWLUs.
We are developing similarrules using both the Constraint Grammarformalism and finite state transducers (XFST tools,Kartunnen et al 1997).
The very first rules seem tobe quite effective.
Soon, we will be assessing thefirst results, and then we will be able to choose themethod that performs best with a lesser effort.Once we have chosen the best formalism, weintend to develop a comprehensive grammar thatwill disambiguate as many ambiguous MWLUs aspossible.In addition, we are developing new processesafter POS tagging in order to identify complexnamed entities and terminological units.
Theseunits constitute an open class and so theirexhaustive inclusion in a database would not beviable.6 Conclusion7In this paper we have described a wholeframework for the representation and treatment ofMWEs, which is being currently used at the IXAResearch Group to process this kind of expressionsin general texts.
Although it has been conceivedand so far used for Basque, a highly inflectedlanguage, we think that it is general enough to beapplied to other languages.A general representation schema for MWLUs atthe lexical level has been proposed.
This schemaallows us to state which components a MWLU hasand to formally encode all the different surfacerealizations it can adopt in the text.The problems that diverse information require-ments in lemmatization and syntactic processingcan eventually pose have been explained, and apossible solution for the representation of thesephenomena has also been outlined.As for the processing aspects, we havedescribed HABIL, the tool for the treatment ofMWEs.
HABIL processes MWEs based on theirdescription in the lexical database, dealing alsowith some types of open class MWEs.One of the remaining problems when split andambiguous MWEs are to be tagged is related withdisambiguation procedures using Hidden MarkovModels, which are not able to manage differentpaths with variable lengths.
This problem can besolved using rule-based methods or latticestructures for tagging.AcknowledgementsThis research is being partially funded by theEuropean Commission (MEANING project, IST-2001-34460) and the Basque Government(Etortek-Hizking, Saiotek-Ihardetsi).ReferencesAduriz I., Aranzabe M., Arriola J., D?az de Ilarraza A.,Gojenola K., Oronoz M., Uria L. 2004.
A cascadedsyntactic analyser for Basque.
Fifth InternationalConference on Intelligence Text Processing andComputational Linguistics (CICLing2004).
Seoul,Korea.Aldezabal I., Ansa O., Arrieta B., Artola X., Ezeiza N.,Hern?ndez G., Lersundi M. 2001.
EDBL: a GeneralLexical Basis for the Automatic Processing ofBasque.
IRCS Workshop on Linguistic Databases.Philadelphia.Ar?valo M. 2002.
MICE, un recurso para la resoluci?nde la an?fora.
International Workshop onComputational Linguistics.
http://www.lsi.upc.es/~nlp/iwcl02.Breidt E., Segond F., Valetto G. 1996.
Local grammarsfor the description of multi-word lexemes and theirautomatic recognition in texts.
Proceedings ofCOMPLEX'96, 19-28.
Budapest.Carmona J., Cervell S., M?rquez L., Mart?
M.A., Padr?L., Placer R., Rodr?guez H., Taul?
M., Turmo J.1998.
An environment for morphosyntacticprocessing of unrestricted Spanish text.
Proceedingsof LREC'98.
915-922.Chinchor N. 1997.
MUC-7 Named Entity TaskDefinition.
Version 3.5. http://www.itl.nist.gov/iaui/894.02/related_projects/muc/Collins M. 2002.
Ranking Algorithms for Named-EntityExtraction: Boosting and the Voted Percetron.Proceedings of ACL-2002.Collins M., Singer Y.
1999.
Unsupervised Models forNamed Entity Classification.
Proceedings of theJoint Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing and Workshop on Very LargeCorpora (EMNLP-VLC-99).Copestake A., Lambean F., Villavicencio A., Bond F.,Baldwin T., Sag I., Flickinger D. 2002.
MultiwordExpressions: linguistic precision and reusability.Proceedings of the Third International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2002), Las Palmas, pp.
1941-7.Ezeiza N. 2003.
Corpusak ustiatzeko tresnalinguistikoak.
Euskararen etiketatzaile sintaktikosendo eta malgua.
PhD thesis, University of theBasque Country.Ezeiza N., Aduriz I., Alegria I., Arriola J.M., Urizar R.1998.
Combining Stochastic and Rule-BasedMethods for Disambiguation in AgglutinativeLanguages.
COLING-ACL'98, Montreal (Canada).Fontenelle T., Adriaens G., De Braekeleer G. 1994.
TheLexical Unit in the Metal?
MT System, MT.
TheNetherlands.
v9.
1-19.Jackendoff R. 1997.
The Architecture of the LanguageFaculty.
Cambridge, MA MIT Press.Karlsson F., Voutilainen A., Heikkila J,.
Anttila A.1995.
Constraint Grammar: A Language-independent System for Parsing Unrestricted Text.Mouton de Gruyter.Karttunen L., Chanod J-P., Grefenstette G., Schiller A.1997.
Regular expressions for language engineering.Natural Language Engineering, CambridgeUniversity Press.Leech G., Garside R., Bryan M. 1994.
CLAWS4: Thetagging of the British National Corpus.
Proceedingsof COLING-94, 622-628.Magnini B., Negri M., Prevete R., Tanev H. 2002.
AWordNet Approach to Named Entities Recognition.Proceeding of the Workshop SemaNet'02: Bindingand Using Semantic Networks.Silva J., Dias G., Guillor?
S., Lopes G. 1999.
Usinglocalmaxs algorithm for the extraction of contiguousand non-contiguous multiword lexical units.Proceedings of 9th Portuguese Conference inArtificial Inteligence, 21-24.Smadja F. 1993.
Retrieving Collocations from Text:Xtract.
Computational Linguistics, 19(1), 143-177.
