What is at stake:a case study of Russian expressions starting with a prepositionSerge SharoffCentre for Translation StudiesSchool of Modern Languages and CulturesUniversity of Leeds, Leeds, LS2 9JT, UKs.sharoff@leeds.ac.ukAbstractThe paper describes an experiment indetecting a specific type of multiwordexpressions in Russian, namely expres-sions starting with a preposition.
Thiscovers not only prepositional phrasesproper, but also fixed syntactic construc-tions like v techenie (?in the course of?
).First, we collect lists of such construc-tions in a corpus of 50 mln words usinga simple mechanism that combines sta-tistical methods with knowledge aboutthe structure of Russian prepositionalphrases.
Then we analyse the results ofthis data collection and estimate the ef-ficiency of the collected list for the reso-lution of morphosyntactic and semanticambiguity in a corpus.1 IntroductionComputational research on multiword expressions(MWEs) has mostly addressed the topic for En-glish (Sag et al, 2001).
Some research has dealtwith other languages, such as French (Michielsand Dufour, 1998) or Chinese (Zhang et al, 2000),but there has been no computationally tractable re-search on the topic for Russian.
What is more, thestudy of MWEs in English has been mostly de-voted to the description of nominal groups or lightverbs, e.g.
(Calzolari et al, 2002), (Sag et al,2001), while constructions starting with a prepo-sition, such as in line, at large, have not been thefocus of attention.Even though the tradition of studying Russianidiomatic expressions resulted in many descrip-tions of Russian idioms and phraseological dic-tionaries, like (Dobrovol?skij, 2000) or (Fedorov,1995), the studies and dictionaries often concen-trate on non-decomposable colourful expressionsof the ?kick-the-bucket?
type, such as byt?
bezcarja v golove (?to have a screw loose?, lit.
?tobe without a tsar in one?s head?)
and pay no atten-tion to the very notion of their frequency.
How-ever, many expressions of this sort are relativelyrare in modern language.
For example, there is nosingle instance of bez carja v golove in the corpuswe used.
At the same time, existing Russian dic-tionaries of idioms often miss more frequent con-structions, which are important both for transla-tion studies and for the development of NLP ap-plications.
The task of the current study is definedby the ongoing development of the Russian Ref-erence Corpus (Sharoff, 2004), a general-purposecorpus of Russian that is comparable to the BritishNational Corpus (BNC) in its size and coverage.The goal of the study was to identify the list ofstatistically important MWEs in the corpus and touse them to reduce the ambiguity in corpus analy-sis.Existing research on the detection of MWEscan be positioned between two extremes: linguis-tic and statistical.
The former approaches assumesyntactic parsing of source texts (sometimes shal-low, sometimes deep to identify the semantic rolesof MWE components) and the ability to get in-formation from a thesaurus.
Detection results canbe further improved by deep semantic analysis ofSecond ACL Workshop on Multiword Expressions: Integrating Processing, July 2004, pp.
17-23source texts (Piao et al, 2003).
When we applysuch techniques to a Russian corpus of the size ofthe BNC, this means that we need accurate and ro-bust parsing tools, which do not exist for Russian.Also, no electronic thesaurus, such as WordNet(Miller, 1990), is available for Russian.
Purely sta-tistical approaches treat multiword expressions asa bag of words and pay no attention to the possibil-ity of variation in the inventory and order of MWEcomponents.
Given that the word order in Russian(and other Slavonic languages) is relatively freeand a typical word (i.e.
lemma) has many forms(typically from 9 for nouns to 50 for verbs), the se-quences of exact N-grams are much less frequentthan in English, thus rendering purely statisticalapproaches useless.This paper discusses a hybrid approach to theidentification of a specific type of MWEs in Rus-sian, namely constructions starting with preposi-tional phrases with the emphasis on those that arefrequent in the corpus.
The study is also aimed ata specific task, namely the disambiguation of theirmorphological properties and syntactic functionsin a corpus.
The approach assumes the develop-ment of a list of MWEs supported by computa-tional tools, including the calculation of standardstatistical measures and shallow parsing of prepo-sitional phrases.
In addition, the scope of the studyis further distinguished by the goal of extractingMWEs from the core lexicon on the basis of ageneral-purpose corpus, while many other MWEdetection studies concerned the extraction of tech-nical terms specific to a particular domain.2 The analysis of the structure ofRussian MWEsFirst, a few words on the linguistic features ofMWEs in Russian in general and of prepositionalphrases in particular.
Russian is an inflecting lan-guage in which a word inflects for a set of morpho-logical categories and shows a specific combina-tion of these categories in its ending.
For instance,a noun in Russian has a fixed gender and inflectsfor 6 to 9 cases and for the number (singular orplural, with relics of the dual, which is relevantfor some words).
Similarly, an adjective inflectsfor six cases, two numbers and three genders andagrees with the noun that is the head of the nom-(1) beloj vorony genitive, singular(2) beloj vorone dative, singular(3) belye vorony nominative, pluralTable 1: Examples of the ambiguity of formsinal group in the values of these three categories.This means that an approach that treats MWEs as?words with spaces inside?
is not always suitablefor English, and cannot work for Russian.
Thereis a certain variation in the number of forms inan MWE like rara avis in English, because raraeaves and rara avises are both possible according to(OED, 1989), even though they are extremely rare(neither is used in the BNC and Internet searchesmostly point to entries in dictionaries), but at leastit is feasible to list the two extra forms separately.At the same the Russian expression belaja vorona(corresponding to rara avis, lit.
?white crow?)
ex-ists in 10 different forms (see examples in Table 1,the endings are underlined) and the variability offorms applies to any nominal group.
The situationis even more complicated in the case of MWEsincluding verbs, given that in addition to severalproper verbal forms, a Russian verb can exist inthe form of up to four participles, each of which isinflected as an adjective with its own set of forms.At the same time the large number of formsdoes not mean that each form can be mapped to alemma and a set of morphological categories with-out any ambiguity, because the number of endingsis much smaller than the number of possible com-binations of features.
As lines (1) and (2) in Ta-ble 1 suggest, the genitive and dative forms of sin-gular feminine adjectives coincide, as well as thegenitive singular and nominative plural forms ofthe noun vorona, see lines (1) and (3).1If we consider prepositional phrases, theamount of ambiguity is much smaller, becauseprepositions govern the case of a nominal groupthat follows them and do not themselves inflect.2However, PPs still exhibit the general problem of1See (Hajic?
and Hladka?, 1998) for a general overview ofproblems with the identification of a tagset and the resolutionof the ambiguity in Slavonic languages.
Their description isabout Czech, but it can be applied to Russian as well.2The terminology that distinguishes groups and phrases,e.g.
nominal groups vs. prepositional phrases, follows (Hall-iday, 1985).ambiguity in lemma selection.
For instance, theword form tem is ambiguous between the genitiveplural form of the noun tema (topic) and the instru-mental singular masculine form of the demonstra-tive pronoun tot (that).
What is more, the preposi-tional phrase s tem from the purely syntactic view-point can be interpreted in both ways, because thepreposition s can govern either the genitive or theinstrumental case.
At the same time the word temas the component of s tem chtoby (in order to,lit.
?with that to?)
shows no ambiguity in its partof speech.
More frequently ambiguity concernsthe selection of a lemma or morphological prop-erties for the collocate.
For instance, the secondword in the expression s bol?shim zapasom (with ahuge margin, lit.
?with large storage?)
can be anal-ysed as either of two adjectives bol?shoj (large) orbo?l?shij (larger).
Similarly, the last word in theexpression do six por (until now, lit.
?before thistime?)
can be analysed as either of two nouns pora?
(time, season) or po?ra (pore).
However, the ex-pressions as a whole are not ambiguous and havespecific meanings.The second problem with prepositional phrasesconcerns their syntactic function, in particular thenotorious PP attachment problem.
Even thoughMWEs consisting of a preposition followed by anominal group are often identical in their syntac-tic structure to fully compositional prepositionalphrases, they do not carry the same syntactic func-tion as the latter.
Such MWEs function in the syn-tactic structure of the clause as a single unit witha clearly defined meaning that cannot be decom-posed into the meaning of their components.
Inthe end, it is better to treat them as adverbs, e.g.
vchastnosti (in particular), pod kljuch (turnkey, lit.
?under key?
), or as prepositions in their own right,e.g.
v techenie (?in the course of?).
Multiwordexpressions starting with a preposition in Englishhave similar structure, but the difference with Rus-sian is that there is no change in the structure of theprepositional group, unlike some English MWEs,e.g.
in line, at large, which do not have a deter-miner.
Thus, we cannot use the difference in thePP structure as an indicator of an MWE.The fact that MWEs are not fully compositionalmeans that the meanings of their constituent wordschange resulting a specific idiomatic meaning ofthe whole contstruction.
In this case we cannotaccept the general assumption of one sense perdiscourse (Gale et al, 1992), because words suchas line, large in English or kljuch in Russian canfunction in the same discourse in a totally differ-ent sense.
However, the assumption of one senseper collocation can hold, because an MWE witha prepositional phrase typically has one and thesame meaning: even though line, large or techenieare ambiguous, in line, at large and pod kljuch, vtechenie have their specific meanings.3 MethodologyThe study starts with the selection of the list ofthe most frequent prepositions to account for alarge number of potential collocations.
Informa-tion on the frequency of prepositions (Table 2) istaken from the pilot version of the Russian Refer-ence Corpus, which currently consists of about 55million words (Table 2 lists the relative frequencyof prepositions in terms of the number of their in-stances per million words, ipm).Then for each preposition we extract its mostfrequent collocations in the same corpus andweight them according to the pointwise mutual in-formation score (MI score) and Student?s t test (Tscore).
Two types of collocates are extracted: alllexical items occurring immediately on the rightof a preposition and the longest possible nominalgroups defined as the sequence of adjectives andnouns with the condition that nouns after the firstone are in the genitive case.
This simple patterncaptures the majority of Russian nominal groups,except those with elaborations of other clauses orother prepositional phrases embedded inside them.Anyway, because of their nature they do not be-long to the class of fixed expressions under study.The MI score foregrounds collocations in whichthe second component rarely (almost never) oc-curs outside of the expression in question, whereasthe T score foregrounds the most stable colloca-tions on the basis of their frequency.For every preposition and the list of its mostsignificant collocates we select MWEs on the ba-sis of the lack of compositionality, namely thatthere is a specific function performed by the ex-pression and this function cannot be automaticallyderived from the meaning of the words compris-ing the candidate MWE.
The criterion cannot bedefined precisely, but in many cases it is imme-diately obvious that the candidate MWE is or isnot fully compositional.
For instance, the expres-sion bez vsjakoj svjazi (?for no apparent reason?,lit.
?without any connection?)
is sufficiently fre-quent (38 instances) and the last element has alexical ambiguity svjaz?
: connection (either physi-cal or logical) or communication.
When the MWEis used in texts, it has a specific function, namelysomeone?s discourse is evaluated as lacking a con-tinuity.
Thus, bez vsjakoj svjazi is treated as anMWE.
On the other hand, the expression v Rossii(in Russia) is much more frequent and statisticallysignificant (14557 instances, its T score is 104.21),but the set of locations constitutes an open list, inwhich other members may be also frequent, e.g.
vSSHA (in the USA, 4739 instances), v Evrope (inEurope, 2752), v Parizhe (in Paris, 2087), v Ki-tae (in China, 1055), and the expressions are fullycompositional.
None of them are considered to beMWEs.
At the same time, an expression with avery similar structure: v storone ([to keep] aloof,lit.
?in side?, 9690 instances, its T-score is 83.95) isconsidered to be an MWE, because it is not com-positional.
The vast majority of uses of this ex-pression do not refer to a physical location, but tothe fact that a person does not take part in a jointactivity.Also, because of the idiomaticity of the mean-ing of an MWE, it functions as a whole in thesyntactic structure of the clause, most typically asan adjunct, and is translated to other languages ina specific way not necessarily related to preposi-tional phrases.
The possibility of its translationinto English without the use of a prepositionalphrase is another reason for treating the expressionto be a potential MWE.Finally, an easy test for detecting an MWE con-cerns the ?penetrability?
of the expression, i.e.
thepossibility to insert another word, most typicallyan adjective or a determiner, into the candidateMWE.
If any insertion is unlikely or the meaningof components is redefined as the result of inser-tion, then the expression in question is an MWE.For instance, even though the MWE v storone canbe modified as v drugoj/levoj/protivopolozhnojstorone (on the other/left/opposite side), the result-Word Gloss Frq (ipm) Scored Selectedv/vo in 27966 703 198na on 16513 198 117s/so with 11131 734 64po over 5816 124 56k to 5468 157 20u at 4956 203 6iz out of 4816 194 6za behind 4711 115 34ot from 3540 118 13o about 2956 357 5dlja for 2302 164 13do before 1978 477 40pod under 1467 139 95pri by 1163 140 2bez without 1097 459 42mezhdu between 502 102 9Total 4384 720Table 2: The list of prepositions and the numberof their patternsing expressions refer to physical locations and notto the idiomatic meaning of the MWE v storone.Thus, they are not considered as MWEs but thepossibility of insertion here does not violate thepenetrability of the MWE in question.4 ResultsThe automatic procedure detected 4384 candidateexpressions, out of which we selected 720 MWEs.The summary of prepositions and the number oftheir patterns identified in the study is given in Ta-ble 2.
It was expected that more frequent prepo-sitions participate in a larger number of MWEs.However, the situation is more complex.
Someprepositions like u or iz occur almost exclusivelyin fully compositional patterns, for example, ex-pressing location: u okna, morja (by the window,by the sea), or possession: u menja, u Ivana (Ihave, Ivan has).
Other prepositions that are lessfrequent regularly produce non-compositional pat-terns, e.g.
pod rukami (?at hand?, which expressesthe specific meaning of availability, not literally?under hands?
), pod konec (?at the end?
).The results retained in the database includewell-formed prepositional phrases that function asproper idioms, as well as syntactic constructionsthat can take a noun or another nominal groupon their right, such as v techenie (?in the courseof?
), which is a PP in its own, or an incom-plete combination of a preposition and an adjec-tive such as dlja puschij (?for greater?).
The lat-ter is a part of an open list of well-formed PPs,as in dlja puschej vazhnosti, (?for greater impor-tance?
), soxrannosti (safety), ostrastki (frighten-ing), but the word puschij in itself occurs only inthis construction.
In other cases, the ?noun?
fromthe nominal group does not even exist in the con-temporary language, like in bez umolku ([to talk]without a pause), so the expression cannot be anal-ysed correctly without knowing that it is an MWE.The resulting list also includes multiword ex-pressions with a slightly different structure, incases where an MWE naturally extends to the leftof the prepositionto form a larger pattern.
Oneexample is sudja po vsemu (?to all appearances?,lit.
?judging over all?
), which is an extension of aprepositional phrase po vsemu, as it gives the onlysuitable pattern by far with 1626 instances in thecorpus, with the next most frequent left neighbourrazbrosat?
po vsemu (?scatter all over?
followed bya spatial location) having only 34 instances.
Also,the sequence of words po vsemu is ambiguous, e.g.it can be a part of larger PPs, such as po vsemugorodu, domu, zalu (over the whole city, house,hall), so from the viewpoint of automatic detectionthe MWE sudja po vsemu is more reliable.Another example of an extended pattern is acomplex reflexive expression: drug druga (?eachother?, lit.
?friend friend-acc?
), which is a mul-tiword expression of its own, because no mean-ing of friendship is explicitly communicated here,as in nenavidet?
drug druga (?to hate each other?,lit.
?to hate friend friend-acc?).
Even though theoriginal pattern did not cover this structure, theexpression has been detected for almost all prepo-sitions in the form of PREP+drug-ending, becausethe reflexive expression allows the insertion of anypreposition between the two elements, e.g.
drug kdrugu (?to each other?, lit.
friend to friend).
Ex-pressions of this sort resist the automatic identifi-cation by means of a simple pattern such as thoseused for other MWEs in the study.It is well-known that ambiguity is abundant innatural languages.
As discussed above, manyword forms in Russian allow several morpholog-ical analyses and this applies to forms used inMWEs.
Monolingual and bilingual dictionariescan also give an estimation of the semantic ambi-guity by counting the number of senses and trans-lations available for a word, though this will be thelower bound, because the number of senses andtranslations offered in dictionaries does not typ-ically cover the full variety of types of possibleuses: depending on a context, a word can be trans-lated in many more ways than is suggested by adictionary.It was relatively straightforward to measure thereduction of morphological ambiguity.
We cancompare the number of morphological analysesbefore and after tagging of MWEs.
The reductionof semantic ambiguity can be measured only in-directly by comparing the difference between thenumber of senses detected in a monolingual dic-tionary and the number of translations in a bilin-gual dictionary against the same numbers aftertagging of MWEs, because we can assume thateach MWE has only one sense, given the ?one-sense-per-collocation?
hypothesis.
Even in caseswhen the hypothesis does not hold, as in the caseof the reflexive MWE drug druga, which can betranslated in many different ways depending onthe main predicate in a clause, the combination ofthe two words in an MWE saves from the possi-bility of their separate translation as companion,friend, mate, pal, comrade, colleague, fellow, etc.Table 3 shows the level of the ambiguity in theoriginal texts and the estimates for its reductionusing the list of MWEs.
The morphological anal-ysis was performed using Mystem (Segalovich,2003), a high-performance analyser which is alsoused in Yandex, a major Russian search engine.The results show that 41% of Russian word formsare ambiguous with respect to their morphologi-cal features with an average number of 4.6 anal-yses per ambiguous word (1.9 on average for allwords).The estimation of semantic ambiguity is basedon electronic copies of the monolingual Ozhegovdictionary (Ozhegov, 1988) and the Oxford Rus-sian bilingual dictionary (ORD, 2000).
The for-mer has 37785 entries with 1.6 senses per entryMorphology Monolingual BilingualCoverage 55022365 38508185 39056759Average ambiguity 1.90 4.38 11.66No of ambiguous words 22790728 19254090 19528375Ambiguity per ambiguous word 4.59 8.76 23.32Ambiguity after MWEs 4.06 8.39 21.72Improvement 10.66% 4.27% 6.86%Table 3: The analysis of the ambiguity resolutionon average, while the Russian-English part of thelatter has 40303 entries with 1.9 translations perentry.
The dictionaries were applied to simple tag-ging of the running text in the corpus, wherebyevery word listed in the dictionaries was taggedwith the respective number of its senses and trans-lations.
The experiment also showed that either ofthe two dictionaries covers about 70% of the run-ning text (noncovered words are typically propernames).
Since more frequent words typically ex-hibit greater polysemy, the polysemy in the run-ning text is larger.
A word has about 4.4 senseson average according to (Ozhegov, 1988) and 11.7translations according to (ORD, 2000).
How-ever, these counts are slightly misleading, becauseabout half of the words in the corpus are not am-biguous.
But if a word is ambiguous, it exhibitsa much greater set of possible senses and transla-tions: for instance, (ORD, 2000) lists the word bigas having 35 translations in various contexts, so ifthe average ambiguity in the corpus is counted forambiguous words only, it reaches 8.8 for sensesand 23.3 for translations.The results for morphological and semantic am-biguity are summarised in Table 3.
After the appli-cation of the list of MWEs (they cover only about2% of the total corpus size), the level of ambigu-ity for ambiguous lexical items goes down to 4.1for morphological analysis, 8.4 for senses and 21.7for translations.
This gives a drop of about 11%for ambiguity in morphological analysis, 4% forambiguity of senses and 7% for translations.5 ConclusionsThe paper reports the first attempt to ap-ply computational methods to the detectionand use of multiword expressions in Rus-sian.
The study resulted in a list of about700 prepositional phrases which is availablefrom http://www.comp.leeds.ac.uk/ssharoff/frqlist/mwes-en.html.
Thelist offers rough results of MWE selection: itincludes proper idioms, of the type one can findin a phraseological dictionary, in particular itemsmissed or underdescribed in such dictionaries,so that it can be used as a source for improvingthem.
However, it also includes items on the edgebetween idioms and other types of lexicalisedphrases, for instance, grammatical constructionsor institutionalised phrases.The study shows that a simple method with lit-tle syntactic knowledge about the structure of PPsin Russian and no semantic resources can pro-duce a useful list of MWEs.
The combination ofautomatic detection of the most significant collo-cations and manual filtering of the results is notlabour intensive and produces many expressionsthat are not covered in existing Russian dictionar-ies.The next immediate step would be to use thelists for the study of translation equivalence be-tween English and Russian, because MWEs arealso not adequately represented in bilingual dic-tionaries, whereas their translation causes signif-icant problems for language learners as well asfor machine translation systems.
For instance, theOxford Russian Dictionary lists 13 translations ofbez (without), including such idioms as bez uma(?be crazy about something?, lit.
?without mind?
),but fails to list many other more frequent construc-tions, such as bez ocheredi (to jostle to the front ofthe queue, lit.
?without queue?
), bez umolku ([totalk] nonstop), bez sleda ([to vanish] without anyhint), etc.The lists can also act as a useful resource formorphological and semantic disambiguation.
Thelist covers about 2% of the running text in the cor-pus, yet it reduces semantic ambiguity in the run-ning text by 4?7%, and morphological ambiguityby 11%.
We did not experiment with the reductionof syntactic ambiguity, because there is no Russiansyntactic parser that can give robust parsing of anunrestricted corpus, such as that used in the study.Also, there is no easy way to force existing parsersto treat the identified MWEs as separate syntacticunits on the clause level.
However, we expect thataccuracy will increase, because the set of identi-fied MWEs reduces the number of PP attachmentproblems, as each MWE acts as an adjunct unit ofits own within the clause.The domain of prepositional phrases has beenchosen specifically because it is relatively easy toguess the structure from the form by means ofshallow parsing.
Further experiments may con-sider detection of other types of MWEs, in par-ticular, with light verbs, such as brat?
primer (tofollow the example of someone, lit.
?take exam-ple?
), which are also very important for transla-tion, but given the free word order in Russian thisextension requires syntactic parsing to detect thedependency structure.AcknowledgementsI?m grateful to Dmitrij Dobrovol?skij, Tony Hart-ley, Viktor Pekar, and especially to BogdanBabych for useful discussions.ReferencesNicoletta Calzolari, Charles J. Fillmore, Ralph Gr-ishman, Nancy Ide, Alessandro Lenci, CatherineMacLeod, and Antonio Zampolli.
2002.
Towardsbest practice for multiword expressions in compu-tational lexicons.
In Proc.
of the 3rd InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC 2002), pages 1934?1940.Dmitrij Dobrovol?skij.
2000.
Contrastive idiom analy-sis: Russian and German idioms in theory and in thebilingual dictionary.
International Journal of Lexi-cography, 13(3):169?186.A.I.
Fedorov, editor.
1995.
Frazeologicheskii slovarrusskogo literaturnogo iazyka.
Nauka, Novosibirsk.William Gale, Kenneth Church, and David Yarowsky.1992.
One sense per discourse.
In Proc.
of the 4thDARPA Speech and Natural Language Workshop,pages 233?237.Jan Hajic?
and Barbora Hladka?.
1998.
Tagging inflec-tive languages: Prediction of morphological cate-gories for a rich, structured tagset.
In Proceedingsof COLING-ACL, pages 483?490.Michael A. K. Halliday.
1985.
An Introduction toFunctional Grammar.
Edward Arnold, London.Archibald Michiels and Nicolas Dufour.
1998.DEFI, a tool for automatic multi-word unit recog-nition, meaning assignment and translation selec-tion.
In Proc.
of First International Language Re-sources and Evaluation Conference, pages 1179?1186.
Granada, Spain.G.
Miller.
1990.
WordNet: an online lexical database.International Journal of Lexicography, 3(4).OED.
1989.
Oxford English Dictionary.
ClarendonPress, Oxford.ORD.
2000.
The Oxford Russian Dictionary.
OxfordUniversity Press, Oxford, 3rd edition.S.
I. Ozhegov.
1988.
Slovar?
russkogo iazyka.
Russkiiiazyk, Moskva, 20th edition.Scott S. L. Piao, Paul Rayson, Dawn Archer, AndrewWilson, and Tony McEnery.
2003.
Extracting mul-tiword expressions with a semantic tagger.
In Pro-ceedings of the ACL 2003 Workshop on MultiwordExpressions, pages 49?56.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
2001.
Multiwordexpressions: A pain in the neck for NLP.
TechnicalReport No.
2001-03, LinGO Working Paper.Ilya Segalovich.
2003.
A fast morphological algorithmwith unknown word guessing induced by a dictio-nary for a web search engine.
In Proc.
of MLMTA-2003, Las Vegas.Serge Sharoff.
2004.
Methods and tools for de-velopment of the Russian Reference Corpus.
InD.
Archer, A. Wilson, and P. Rayson, editors, Cor-pus Linguistics Around the World.
Rodopi, Amster-dam.J.
Zhang, J. Gao, and M. Zhou.
2000.
Extraction ofChinese compound words ?
an experimental studyon a very large corpus.
In Proc.
of the 2nd ChineseLanguage Processing Workshop, ACL 2000, pages132?139.
