Fine-Grained Lexical Semantic Representations andCompositionally-Derived Events in Mandarin ChineseJimmy LinMIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence LaboratoryCambridge, MA 02139jimmylin@csail.mit.eduAbstractCurrent lexical semantic representations fornatural language applications view verbs assimple predicates over their arguments.
Thesestructures are too coarse-grained to capturemany important generalizations about verbalargument structure.
In this paper, I specifi-cally defend the following two claims: verbshave rich internal structure expressible in termsof finer-grained primitives of meaning, and atleast for some languages, verbal meaning iscompositionally derived from these primitiveelements.
I primarily present evidence fromMandarin Chinese, whose verbal system is verydifferent from that of English.
Many empiri-cal facts about the typology of verbs in Man-darin cannot be captured by a ?flat?
lexical se-mantic representation.
These theoretical resultshold important practical consequences for nat-ural language processing applications.1 IntroductionLexical semantics is becoming increasingly important ina variety of natural language applications from machinetranslation to text summarization to question answering.Since it is generally agreed that the verb is the locus of?meaning?
in a natural language sentence, theories of ver-bal argument structure are extremely important for ourunderstanding of lexical semantics.An appropriate lexical semantic representation can il-luminate difficult problems in language processing, ex-pose facets of meaning relevant to the surface realizationof sentential elements, and reveal insights about the or-ganization of the human language faculty.
In machinetranslation, a ?good?
representation of verbs can straight-forwardly capture cross-linguistic divergences in the ex-pression of arguments.
In question answering, lexical se-mantics can be leveraged to bridge the gap between theway a question is asked and the way an answer is stated.This paper explores fine-grained lexical seman-tic representations?approaches that view a verb asmore than a simple predicate of its arguments (e.g.,Dang et al, 2000).
This contrasts with recent semanticannotation projects such as PropBank (Kingsbury andPalmer, 2002) and FrameNet (Baker et al, 1998).
Forexample, while it is undeniable that throw(John, the ball,Mary), is a valid representation for the sentence ?Johnthrew the ball to Mary?, it is widely believed (at least bytheoretical linguists) that decomposing verbs in terms ofmore basic primitives can better capture generalizationsabout verb meaning and argument realization.
I will ar-gue that finer-grained semantics is not only theoreticallymotivated, but necessary for building applications.I first provide a brief overview of theories of verbal ar-gument structure, and then contrast the typology of Man-darin verbs with that of English verbs.
I will present evi-dence from Chinese that verb meaning is compositionally?built up?
from primitive notions of stativity and activity.The consequence, therefore, is that ?flat?
representationslacking internal structure are unable to capture the verbalsemantics of a language like Mandarin.
Productive phe-nomena such as verbal compounding render enumerationof all permissible verbs impossible.
Verb meaning, there-fore, must be represented decompositionally in terms ofunderlying primitives.
This paper does not propose a con-crete lexical semantic representation, but rather focuseson the requirements, for natural language applications, ofsuch a representation.2 Event TypesThe earliest theory of verbal argument structure involvesgeneralized collections of semantic roles, known as acase frame (Fillmore, 1968) or a theta-grid (Stowell,1981) under the framework of Government and BindingTheory.
The idea of semantic roles was first explicatedin Fillmore?s seminal paper, ?The Case for Case?
(1968),which argues that the propositional component of a sen-tence can be represented as an array consisting of the verband a number of noun phrases specifically marked withroles such as agent, patient, instrument, and goal.
Theselabels identify the grammatically relevant aspects of theroles that pertain to argument realization in the syntax.
Averb is defined by the semantic roles that it ?takes?, i.e.,its case frame.
For example, love takes an agent and a pa-tient, while frighten takes an experiencer and a stimulus.A theory of argument structure is not complete with-out an associated linking theory that explicitly maps ar-guments in the lexical semantic representation (semanticroles) to syntactic arguments.
Approaches based on se-mantic roles often formulate a linking theory in terms of athematic hierarchy (Jackendoff, 1972): semantic roles arearranged in an abstract ?prominence?
hierarchy, and therealization of syntactic arguments is based on the positionof roles in this hierarchy.
The highest role in the thematichierarchy is assigned the highest argument position in thesyntactic structure (the subject), the next highest role isassigned the next highest argument, and so forth.
The-matic hierarchies are believed to be an independent andirreducible module of grammar.There has been considerable debate over the orderingof roles on thematic hierarchies.
In fact, the actual in-ventory of semantic roles, along with precise definitionsand diagnostics, remains an unsolved problem.
These arenot the only drawbacks associated with theories of argu-ment structure that rely on semantic roles:1 Some anal-yses show that semantic roles are too coarse-grained toaccount for certain semantic distinctions.
The only re-course, to expand the collection of roles, comes with theprice of increased complexity, e.g., in the linking rules.Fillmore?s original assumption that each noun phrase inan utterance occupies a unique thematic role is oftencalled into question.
For some verbs, e.g., resemble, mul-tiple noun phrases appear to have the same semantic role.Finally, because case frames are ?flat?, i.e., lacking anyinternal structure, a theory based purely on semantic roleslacks real explanatory power.
Why is it, for example, thatlove takes an obligatory agent and an obligatory patient?Why is the instrument role in open optional?
These theo-ries cannot offer satisfactory answers because they do notdirectly refer to the meaning of predicates.Recognizing the drawbacks of theories based purely onsemantic roles, there is now a general consensus amonglinguists that argument structure is (to a large extent)predictable from event semantics?hence, patterns of ar-gument realization should be inferable from lexical se-mantic representations grounded in a theory of events.These event representations typically decompose seman-1see (Dowty, 1991) and (Levin and Rappaport Hovav, 1996)tic roles in terms of primitive predicates representingconcepts such as causality, agentivity, inchoativity, andstativity (Dowty, 1979; Jackendoff, 1983; Pustejovsky,1991b; Rappaport Hovav and Levin, 1998).3 From Event Types to Event StructureAlthough Aristotle (Metaphysics 1048b) observed thatthe meanings of some verbs involve an ?end?
or a ?re-sult?, and other do not, it wasn?t until the twentieth cen-tury that philosophers and linguists developed a clas-sification of event types which captures logical entail-ments and the co-occurrence restrictions between verbsand other syntactic elements such as tenses and adver-bials.
Vendler?s (1957) classification of events into states,activities, accomplishments, and achievements is ground-breaking in this respect.
In his event ontology, activi-ties and states both depict situations that are inherentlytemporally unbounded (atelic); states denote static situa-tions, whereas activities denote on-going dynamic situa-tions.
Accomplishments and achievements both express achange of state, and hence are temporally bounded (telic);achievements are punctual, whereas accomplishments ex-tend over a period of time.
Examples of the four eventtypes are given below:(1)States Activitiesknow runbelieve walkdesire push a cartAccomplishments Achievementspaint a picture recognizemake a chair finddeliver a sermon loseAlthough activities group naturally with statesand accomplishments with achievements in termsof telicity, it has also been observed that statescan be grouped with achievements and activitieswith accomplishments in that that first pair lacksthe progressive tense, while the second pair allowsthem (cf.
Lakoff, 1966; Shi, 1988).
To capture theseproperties, Vendler?s classes can be further decomposedin terms of independent features (cf.
Andersen, 1990;Van Valin and LaPolla, 1997:91-102):(2) a.
State: [?telic, ?durative, ?dynamic]b.
Activity: [?telic, +durative, +dynamic]c. Achievement: [+telic, ?durative +dynamic]d. Accomplishment: [+telic, +durative+dynamic]Vendler?s work on ontological types of events servesas a foundation upon which others have grounded lexi-cal semantic representations and theories of verbal argu-ment structure.
Dowty?s seminal work (1979) attemptsto decompose states, activities, accomplishments, andachievements in terms of the primitives DO, CAUSE, andBECOME:(3) a. state: pin(?1, .
.
.
, ?n)b. activity: DO(?1, [pin(?1, .
.
.
, ?n)])c. achievement: BECOME[pin(?1, .
.
.
, ?n)]d. accomplishment:[[ DO(?1, [pin(?1, .
.
.
, ?n)])] CAUSE[ BECOME [pin(?1, .
.
.
, ?n)]]](Dowty, 1979:123-124)Examples of Dowty?s theory applied to English sen-tences are shown below:(4) a.
He sweeps the floor clean.
[ [ DO(he, sweeps(the floor)) ] CAUSE[ BECOME [ clean(the floor) ] ] ]b. John walks.
[ DO(John, walk) ]In what later becomes a standard analysis adopted bysubsequent linguists, Dowty breaks causative sentencesdown into two subevents: a causing subevent and a resultsubevent.
The representation of the resultative sentence(4a) is comprised of the causing subevent ?he sweepsthe floor?
and the result subevent ?the floor is clean?.Unergative verbs, on the other hand, are represented bya single subevent with the primitive DO.Rappaport Hovav and Levin?s more recent theory ofevent templates (1998) also defines a basic inventory ofevent building blocks in terms of Vendler?s event types:(5) a.
[ x ACT<MANNER> ] (activity)b.
[ x <STATE> ] (state)c. [ BECOME [ x <STATE> ] ] (achievement)d. [ x CAUSE [ BECOME [ y <STATE> ] ] ](accomplishment)e. [ [ x ACT<MANNER> ] CAUSE [ BECOME[ y <STATE> ] ] ] (accomplishment)(Rappaport Hovav and Levin, 1998:108)A verb?s meaning consists of a constant paired with aparticular event template drawn from the basic inventoryabove.
Constants are open-class items drawn from a fixedontology (e.g., manner, instrument, state, etc.)
and arerepresented within the angle brackets of the event tem-plate.
An important claim of this theory is that verbs di-rectly encode, or lexicalize, complex event structures.To account for complex events and secondary predi-cation, Rappaport Hovav and Levin propose a processcalled Template Augmentation that allows basic eventtemplates to be freely ?augmented?
to any other eventtemplate.
This process, for example, explains the resulta-tive form of surface contact verbs like sweep:(6) a. Phil swept the floor.
[ Phil ACT<SWEEP> floor ]b. Phil swept the floor clean.
[ [ Phil ACT<SWEEP> floor ] CAUSE[ BECOME [ floor <CLEAN> ] ] ]In this case, an activity has been augmented into an ac-complishment through the addition of another subevent,i.e., the floor becoming clean (note similarities withDowty?s representation).
In order to bring the lexicalsemantic representation ?into alignment?
with syntacticstructure for the purpose of argument realization, Levinand Rappaport Hovav (1995) propose well-formednessconstraints and linking rules such as the following:(7) a.
Immediate Cause Linking Rule.
The argumentof a verb that denotes the immediate cause ofthe eventuality described by that verb is itsexternal argument.b.
Directed change Linking Rule.
The argumentof the verb that corresponds to the entityundergoing the directed change described bythat verb is its internal argument.Vendler?s ontology of verbal types has paved the wayfor many important developments in lexical semantics.Although the role of lexical aspect in argument realiza-tion has been called into question (Levin, 2000), thisgenerally-accepted classification of events figures promi-nently in most theories of verbal argument structure.
Ofgreat interest both theoretically and for the purposes ofbuilding language applications, therefore, is the typologi-cal organization of verbal systems in different languages.Can Vendler?s event type ontology, which was originallydeveloped for English, be directly applied to other lan-guages as well?
The answer, I will demonstrate, at leastfor Mandarin Chinese, is no.4 The Mandarin Verbal SystemI will argue that the typology of Mandarin Chinese verbsis very different from that of English verbs.
Specifically,I make the following claims:(8) a.
Activity and state are the only two primitiveverbal types in Mandarin Chinese.Accomplishments and achievements arederived compositionally.b.
With a small number of exceptions, there areno monomorphemic verbs in Mandarin thatare telic?no monomorphemic verbnecessarily encodes a result, an end state, orthe attainment of a goal.c.
The particle le, among other uses, signalsinchoativity.The somewhat controversial claim that Mandarin lacksmonomorphemic accomplishments and achievements hasbeen previously made by a number of linguists, most no-tably Tai (1984); see also (Shi, 1988).
These works serveas a starting point for my inquiry into the typological or-ganization of Mandarin verbs.One important bit of evidence is the existence of ac-tivity/achievement verb pairs in English, which are notpresent in Mandarin:(9)Englishactivity achievementlook (at) seelisten (to) hearstudy learnlook for find(10)Mandarinactivity achievementkan4 ?look?
kan4 jian4 ?look-perceive?= seeting1 ?listen?
ting1 jian4 ?listen-perceive?= hearxue2 ?study?
xue2 hui4 ?study-able?= learnzhao3 ?look for?
zhao3 dao4 ?look.for-arrive?= findIn English, for example, the verb look expressesan atelic activity, while the verb see expresses a telicachievement that lexicalizes the attainment of a goal (i.e.,the successful act of perception).
Mandarin Chinese,however, does not have monomorphemic counterpartsfor English achievements.
To encode an end state, Chi-nese speakers must resort to resultative verb compounds,where the first verb denotes the activity, and the secondverb denotes the result.
For verbs of perception, two dif-ferent result morphemes are typically used: jian4, bestglossed as ?perceive?, and dao4, literally ?arrive?.The claim that resultative verb compounds are requiredto explicitly encode the result state is supported by thegrammaticality of sentences that explicitly deny the at-tainment of the goal:(11) ta1hekan4lookle5LEban4halftian1,dayke3shi4butmei2not-havekan4lookjian4perceive?He looked for a long time, but couldn?t see it.
?In contrast, using a resultative verb compound in thefirst clause triggers a contradiction:(12) *ta1hekan4lookjian4perceivele5LEban4halftian1,dayke3shi4butmei2not-havekan4lookjian4perceiveintended: ?He saw for a long time, but couldn?t seeit.
?Another important bit of evidence comes from the in-terpretations of accomplishments.
In English, accom-plishments are compatible with both in and for adver-bials, the standard diagnostic for telicity:(13) a. John wrote a letter for an hour.b.
John wrote a letter in a hour.As demonstrated in the above example, writing a lettercan be interpreted as either atelic (13a) or telic (13b).
Theatelic interpretation is to be understood as ?John engagedin the activity of letter writing for an hour?, whereas thetelic interpretation implies the completion of the letter.Both readings are generally available, but in the pasttense, the telic accomplishment is much more salient.Thus, to deny the completion of the goal renders the sen-tence decidedly odd:(14) #John wrote a letter yesterday, but he didn?t finishit.It is, however, not very difficult to construct a contextthat renders the above sentence felicitous:(15) John is always writing letters, but he never finishesany of them.
In fact, John wrote a letter yesterday,but as usual, he didn?t finish it.The situation in Mandarin, however, is very different.It appears that the Chinese counterpart of write, xie3, hasno reading that necessarily implies completion of the di-rect object (incremental theme):(16) wo3Izou2tian1yesterdayxie3writele5LEyi1onefeng1CLxin4,letterke3shi4butmei2not-havexie3writewan2finish?I wrote a letter yesterday, but I didn?t finish it.
?In fact, the only way to encode completion of the letterwriting is, once again, through a resultative verb com-pound such as xie3 wan2 ?write-finish?.I have thus far demonstrated that the Mandarinequivalent of many English verbs cannot be expressedmonomorphemically, but rather must involve a verbalcompound.
In order to defend my claims, however, thefollowing (apparent) counterexamples must be explained:(17) a. shu4treedao3fallle5LE?The tree fell.?b.
bo1li2glasssui4shatterle5LE?The glass shattered.
?It appears that dao3 and sui4 are monomorphemicverbs that express change of state.
In order for my claimsto be correct, I would have to demonstrate that such verbsare actually derived from more basic forms.
Indeed, thisis the case: the examples above are derived from underly-ing stative predicates?the particle le signals inchoativity.The following stative/inchoative minimal pair presentsevidence for my theory:(18) a. shu4treegao1tallshi2tengung1fen1centimeter?The tree is ten centimeters tall.?b.
shu4treegao1tallle5LEshi2tengung1fen1centimeter?The tree grew ten centimeters.
?The only difference in the two above sentences is thepresence/absence of le.
The particle, therefore, must con-tribute the semantic component of inchoativity.
Similarminimal pairs related to prenominal modifiers show thissame contrast:(19) a. sui4shattered(de5)DEbo1li2glass?shattered glass?
(stative/adjective)b. sui4shatteredle5LEde5DEbo1li2glass?glass that was shattered?
(resultativeparticiple)The above pair represents a subtle but detectable dif-ference in meaning; whereas (19a) describes a pure state,(19b) describes the result of an event.
This distinction ex-actly parallels the difference between an open door andan opened door in English.
Once again, since the sen-tences differ only by le, the particle must be contributingthat semantic component.
As further evidence, considerthe following minimal pair:(20) a. Zhang1san1Zhangsanyou3hasyi1oneda4bigbi3amountqian2money?Zhangsan has a lot of money.?b.
Zhang1san1Zhangsanyou4hasle5LEyi1oneda4bigbi3amountqian2money?Zhangsan has acquired a lot of money.
?Once again, the addition of le creates a change of stateacquire out of a simple stative predicate have.
The se-mantic contribution of the particle le is also seen in a sub-ordinate clause:(21) a. wo3Ikan4seejian4perceiveshu4treedao3fallzhai4atlu4roadbian1side?I see the fallen tree at the side of the road.?
(tree may have fallen a long time ago)b. wo3Ikan4seejian4perceiveshu4treedao3fallle5LEzhai4atlu4roadbian1side?I see the tree falling at the side of the road.?
(eye witness account)Once again, the stative reading is contrasted with thechange of state reading.
The interpretation of the abovetwo sentences is consistent with the analysis of le as asignal of inchoativity.It is clear from the above minimal pairs that the particlele combines with stative predicates to gives rise to changeof state interpretations.
Are these derived events achieve-ments or accomplishments?
Dowty (1979) provides thefollowing diagnostics:(22)compatible with complementprogressive?
of stopstate no okactivity yes okaccomplishment yes okachievement maybe badAccomplishments are generally compatible with theprogressive; some achievements appear felicitous (e.g.,okis winning), while others do not (e.g., *is noticing).Accomplishments, since they are durative, are generallyacceptable as the complement of stop, whereas the punc-tual nature of achievements renders them ungrammatical.These diagnostics clearly demonstrate that the addition ofle shifts stative predicates into achievements:(23) a.
*bo1li2glasszheng4zai4in.process.ofsui4shatterle5LEman3wholedi4floorintended: ?The glass is in the process ofshattering all over the floor.?b.
*bo1li2glassting2zhi3stopsui4shatterle5LEman3wholedi4floorintended: ?The glass stopped shattering allover the floor.
?It is interesting to note that many achievements in Man-darin cannot directly causativize into the transitive form:(24) a.
*Zhang1san1Zhangsandao3fallle5LEshu4treeintended: ?Zhangsan fell the tree.?b.
?
?Zhang1san1Zhangsansui4shatterle5LEbo1li2glassintended: ?Zhangsan shattered the glass.
?Instead, a resultative verb compound is necessary toexpress an accomplishment.
Typically, the second verbdenotes the result (end state) of the event, while the firstverb denotes the activity that brings about the end state:(25) a. Zhang1san1Zhangsankan3chopdao3fallle5LEshu4tree?Zhangsan chopped the tree down.?b.
Zhang1san1Zhangsanda3hitsui4shatterle5LEbo1li2glass?Zhangsan shattered the glass.
?Putting all the pieces together, the organization of theMandarin verbal system can be summarized as follows:(26) primitive event types: activity, statestate + le ?
achievementactivity + achievement ?
accomplishmentActivity and state are the two primitive verbal cate-gories in Mandarin.
Non-causative change of state predi-cates (achievements) are derived from states with the ad-dition of the particle le.
Accomplishments are further de-rived from achievements through the formation of resul-tative verb compounds in which the first verb denotes anactivity, and the second verb the end state.Traditionally, the particle le that appears post-verballyhas been analyzed as an aspectual marker denoting per-fectivity (Li and Thompson, 1981).
This contrasts withmy analysis of it as a signal of inchoativity.
How arethese two approaches to be reconciled?
In (Lin, 2004b),I argue that le is a reflex, rather than an overt realiza-tion of the underlying inchoative marker.
As generallydefined, perfective aspect is not compatible with stativepredicates.
However, the addition of a covert inchoativefunctional head, in effect, licenses the perfective aspect.5 Computational Significance?Why is this peculiar organization of the Mandarin verbalsystem important for lexical semantic representations de-signed for language applications?
It demonstrates that, atleast for languages such as Mandarin Chinese, the verbphrase must be rich in internal structure; a verb cannot besimply viewed as a predicate of its arguments.
Evidencefrom Mandarin resultative verb compounds demonstratethat verbal predicates themselves must be composition-ally built from underlying primitives.It is important to note that the formation of verbal com-pounds in Chinese is a fully productive process?the onlyconstraint on verb combinations appears to stem fromplausible real-world associations between cause and ef-fect.
The following shows but a small range of possibleresultative verb compounds with the dao3 ?fall?
result:(27) kan3 dao3 chop-fall to chop downzhuang4 dao3 crash-fall to knock overtui1 dao3 push-fall to push overla1 dao3 pull-fall to pull downIn principle, verbal compound formation in Mandarincould be a lexical process, but I present elsewhere in-dependent evidence for a non-lexicalist approach thatcaptures these constraints in the theoretical frameworkof Distributed Morphology, an extension of Chomsky?sMinimalist Program (Lin, 2004a; Lin, 2004b).
How-ever, the actual machinery for formalizing these insightsis not important for the present discussion.
The importantlessons are the theoretical constraints imposed by verbaltypology on lexical semantic representations designed forlanguage applications.
More specifically:(28) a. verbs have rich internal structure expressiblein terms of finer-grained primitives ofmeaning, andb.
at least for some languages, verbal meaning iscompositionally derived from these primitiveelements.These claims imply that a PropBank or FrameNet ap-proach to lexical semantics will not be sufficient for manylanguage applications, at least for languages such asMandarin Chinese.
While I may disagree with the tech-nical details, I believe that the approach taken by (Danget al, 2000) is on the right path.
Due to the produc-tivity of verbal phenomena in Mandarin, it is impossi-ble to exhaustively enumerate all felicitous predicates?verbal meaning, therefore, must be compositionally de-rived from primitive elements.
This however, does notmean that PropBank or FrameNet are not useful; quitethe contrary!
Existing semantic resources serve as thefoundation from which we can bootstrap finer-grained se-mantic representations.While the approach Palmer and Wu (1995) take to lex-ical semantics captures many selectional restrictions andfiner-grained facets of meaning, it still does not modelthe arbitrary productivity of verbal compounds.
For thepurposes of translating English change of state verbs intoMandarin, they developed a conceptual lattice that uni-fies verbs from both languages.
Distances between nodesin this lattice correspond to ?semantic distance?, and isused to find the closest translation if a specific meaning isunavailable.
Although this approach results in better lex-ical selection, the semantic lattice still assumes that allverbal forms can be exhaustively enumerated.
Althoughthis certainly may be true within the context of a specificcorpus, the productivity of Mandarin verbal phenomenais limitless in the real world.I believe that, for all languages in general, verbalmeanings are compositionally built up from states andactivities.
Furthermore, this process is syntactic in na-ture (Lin, 2004b), governed by well-known syntactic pro-cesses such as MERGE (Chomsky, 1995) and subjectedto well-studied constraints such as selectional restric-tions and the Head Movement Constraint (Travis, 1984).This contrasts with Rappaport Hovav and Levin?s (1998)?event template?
approach, which is lexicalist in thatlarge chunks of event structure are directly associatedwith verbs.
Under their analysis, the lexical entry associ-ated with sui4 ?shatter?
would be something like:(29) sui4 ?shatter?
=[ [ x ACT<UNDEF> ] CAUSE [ BECOME[ x <SHATTERED> ] ] ]Rappaport Hovav and Levin?s theory argues that averb?s meaning is composed of an event template thatcaptures the structural component of meaning and open-class constants that capture the idiosyncratic componentof meaning (represented by items in angle brackets).
Thisseparation is a major breakthrough in lexical semantictheories because it allows grammatically relevant facetsof meaning to be untangled from facets of meaning notdirectly relevant to the encoding of arguments.
Descrip-tively, the structural component of meaning is what a verbshares with other verbs in the same verb class, whereasthe idiosyncratic component of meaning is what separatesverbs within the same verb class.In Rappaport Hovav and Levin?s account of verbal ar-gument structure, complex event representations are di-rectly introduced in the syntax; that is, the verb lexi-calizes a complete causative accomplishment?to shatterimplicates an agent participating in an unspecified activ-ity that brings about a change of state where an entitybecomes shattered.
In English, they propose that intran-sitive verbs are derived by a process of ?decausativiza-tion?
through which the external argument is ?absorbed?,and therefore remains unexpressed (Levin and RappaportHovav, 1995).
Such a theory is unable to account for thederivation of Mandarin resultatives such as da3 sui4 ?hit-shatter?.
If (29) is indeed the representation of sui4 ?shat-ter?, then what is the lexical semantic representation ofda3 ?hit??
There are, in principle, two alternatives:(30) Option 1: da3 ?hit?
= [ x ACT<HIT> ]Option 2: da3 ?hit?
= < HIT >One might suggest that da3 ?hit?
is associated withits own event template that somehow gets merged withthe lexical entry of sui4 ?shatter?.
In order for this ap-proach to be tenable, one has to explicate the process bywhich verbs are ?fused?
(and in many cases, how argu-ments of both verbs are sometimes merged or remain un-expressed); Li (1990) provides exactly such a lexical ac-count, although it has been found to be problematic formany cases (Cheng and Huang, 1994).
The other op-tion is to suggest that da3 ?hit?
merely encodes the id-iosyncratic component of meaning, without an associatedevent template.
This, however, cannot be true becauseda3 ?hit?
itself can be used as a main verb:(31) Zhang1san1Zhangsanda3hitle5LEbo1li2glass?Zhangsan hit the glass.
?The only plausible solution is that verbs encode smallfragments of event structure, which are compositionallybuilt up by regular syntactic processes.
This approachalso provides a natural solution for handling verbs thatare derivationally related to other lexical categories, e.g.,deadjectival verbs such as flatten, widen, modernize, andlegalize.
These derivational affixes obviously contributethe inchoative component of meaning that turns states(adjectives) into change of states:(32) flat: [state flat]-en: ?s?x.BECOME(x, BE(s))flat-en: ?x.BECOME(x, BE([state flat]))In such a treatment, for example, the complete se-mantics of a word can be compositionally derived fromits component morphemes.
This framework, where the?semantic load?
is spread more evenly throughout thelexicon to lexical categories not typically thought tobear semantic content, is essentially the model advo-cated by Pustejovsky (1991a), among others.
Such ananalysis of verbal phenomena marks a departure fromthe standard architectural view of morphological analysisas a preprocessor?instead, morphological and syntacticderivation can be integrated under a common framework.6 ConclusionThe key claim of this paper is that results from thetheoretical study of verbal argument structure are rele-vant to computational lexical semantic representations forlanguage applications.
Although the simplest possibleargument representation treats verbs as predicates overtheir arguments, I have demonstrated that this approachis woefully inadequate for handling a language such asMandarin Chinese.
I have presented evidence that verbmeaning in Mandarin is compositionally built up fromunderlying state and activity primitives?this organiza-tion of the verbal system must be mirrored by any lex-ical semantic representation aspiring to capture general-izations about argument realization patterns.
This papertakes an important step in laying out some of the con-straints for such a representation.ReferencesRoger W. Andersen.
1990.
Papiamentu tense-aspect,with special attention to discourse.
In J. V. Singler,editor, Pidgin and Creole Tense-Mood-Aspect Sys-tems, pages 59?96.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam, TheNetherlands.Collin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and John B. Lowe.1998.
The Berkeley FrameNet project.
In Proceedingsof the 36th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics and 17th International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics (COLING/ACL1998).Lisa Lai-Shen Cheng and C.-T. James Huang.
1994.
Onthe argument structure of resultative compounds.
InMatthew Chen and Ovid Tzeng, editors, In honor ofWilliam S.-Y.
Wang Interdisciplinary Studies on Lan-guage and Language Change, pages 187?221.
Pyra-mid Press, Taipei, Taiwan.Noam Chomsky.
1995.
The Minimalist Program.
MITPress, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Hoa Trang Dang, Karin Kipper, and Martha Palmer.2000.
Integrating compositional semantics into a verblexicon.
In Proceedings of the 18th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics (COLING2000).David Dowty.
1979.
Word Meaning and MontagueGrammar.
D. Reidel Publishing Company, Dordrecht,The Netherlands.David Dowty.
1991.
Thematic proto-roles and argumentselection.
Language, 67(3):547?619.Charles J. Fillmore.
1968.
The case for case.
In E. Bachand R. Harms, editors, Universals in Linguistic The-ory, pages 1?88.
Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, NewYork.Ray Jackendoff.
1972.
Semantic Interpretation inGenerative Grammar.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Mas-sachusetts.Ray Jackendoff.
1983.
Semantics and Cognition.
MITPress, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Paul Kingsbury and Martha Palmer.
2002.
From Tree-Bank to PropBank.
In Proceedings of the Third In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC-2002).George Lakoff.
1966.
Stative adjectives and verbs in En-glish.
NSF-Report 17, Harvard Computational Labo-ratory.Beth Levin and Malka Rappaport Hovav.
1995.
Unac-cusativity: At the Syntax-Lexical Semantics Interface,volume 26 of Linguistic Inquiry Monograph.
MITPress, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Beth Levin and Malka Rappaport Hovav.
1996.
Fromlexical semantics to argument realization.
Unpub-lished manuscript, Northwestern University and BarIlan University.Beth Levin.
2000.
Aspect, lexical semantic representa-tion, and argument expression.
In Proceedings of the26th Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Soci-ety.Charles N. Li and Sandra A. Thompson.
1981.
Man-darin Chinese: A Functional Reference Grammar.University of California Press, Berkeley, California.Yafei Li.
1990.
On V-V compounds in Chinese.
NaturalLanguage and Linguistic Theory, 9:177?207.Jimmy Lin.
2004a.
A computational framework fornon-lexicalist semantics.
In Proceedings of the 2004HLT/NAACL Student Research Workshop.Jimmy Lin.
2004b.
Event Structure and the Encoding ofArguments: The Syntax of the English and MandarinVerb Phrase.
Ph.D. thesis, Department of ElectricalEngineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts In-stitute of Technology.Martha Palmer and Zhibiao Wu.
1995.
Verb semanticsfor English-Chinese translation.
IRCS Report 95-22,Institute for Research in Cognitive Science, Universityof Pennsylvania.James Pustejovsky.
1991a.
The generative lexicon.Computational Linguistics, 17(4):409?441.James Pustejovsky.
1991b.
The syntax of event structure.Cognition, 41:47?81.Malka Rappaport Hovav and Beth Levin.
1998.
Buildingverb meanings.
In Miriam Butt and Wilhelm Geuder,editors, The Projection of Arguments: Lexical andCompositional Factors.
CSLI Publications, Stanford,California.Ziqiang Shi.
1988.
The Present of Past of the Particle Lein Mandarin Chinese.
Ph.D. dissertation, Universityof Pennsylvania.Tim Stowell.
1981.
Elements of Phrase Structure.
Ph.D.thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.James H-Y.
Tai.
1984.
Verbs and times in chinese:Vendler?s four categories.
In David Testen, VeenaMishra, and Joseph Drogo, editors, Papers from theParasession on Lexical Semantics.
Chicago LinguisticSociety, Chicago, Illinois.Lisa Travis.
1984.
Parameters and Effects of Word OrderVariation.
Ph.D. dissertation, Massachusetts Instituteof Technology, Department of Linguistics.Robert D. Van Valin and Randy J. LaPolla.
1997.
Syntax.Structure, Meaning and Function.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, Cambridge, England.Zeno Vendler.
1957.
Verbs and times.
PhilosophicalReview, 56:143?160.
