The Szeged Corpus: a POS tagged and syntactically annotated Hungariannatural language corpusD?ra CSENDESUniversity of Szeged Department ofInformatics?rp?d t?r 2.Szeged, Hungary, H-6720dcsendes@inf.u-szeged.huJ?nos CSIRIKUniversity of Szeged Department ofInformatics?rp?d t?r 2.Szeged, Hungary, H-6720csirik@inf.u-szeged.huTibor GYIM?THYUniversity of Szeged Department of Informatics?rp?d t?r 2.Szeged, Hungary, H-6720gyimothy@inf.u-szeged.huAbstractThe Szeged Corpus is a manually annotatednatural language corpus currently comprising 1.2million word entries, 145 thousand different wordforms, and an additional 225 thousand punctuationmarks.
With this, it is the largest manuallyprocessed Hungarian textual database that servesas a reference material for research in naturallanguage processing as well as a learning databasefor machine learning algorithms and other softwareapplications.
Language processing of the corpustexts so far included morpho-syntactic analysis,POS tagging and shallow syntactic parsing.Semantic information was also added to a pre-selected section of the corpus to support automatedinformation extraction.The present state of the Szeged Corpus (Alexinet al, 2003) is the result of three national projectsand the cooperation of the University of Szeged,Department of Informatics, MorphoLogic Ltd.Budapest, and the Research Institute forLinguistics at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.Corpus texts have gone through different phases ofnatural language processing (NLP) and analysis.Extensive and accurate manual annotation of thetexts, incorporating over 124 person-months ofmanual work, is a great value of the corpus.1 Texts of the Szeged CorpusWhen selecting texts for the Szeged Corpus, themain criteria was that they should be thematicallyrepresentative of different text types.
The firstversion of the corpus, therefore, contains textsfrom five genres, roughly 200 thousand wordseach.
Due to its relative variability, it serves as agood reference material for natural languageresearch applications, and proves to be largeenough to guarantee the robustness of machinelearning methods.
Genres of Szeged Corpus 1.0include:?
fiction (two Hungarian novels and theHungarian translation of Orwell's 1984)?
compositions of 14-16-year-old students?
newspaper articles (excerpts from threedaily and one weekly paper)?
computer-related texts (excerpts from aWindows 20001 manual book and someissues of the ComputerWorld,Sz?m?t?stechnika magazine)?
law (excerpts from legal texts on economicenterprises and authors' rights).SizeText type Numberof wordsNumberof punct.marksNumberof ambig.wordsRatio ofambig.wordsFiction 187191 47968 100968 53.94%Composi-tions223058 47208 127821 57.30%Newspaper 187334 32948 91375 48.78%Computer 181980 31906 82698 45.44%Law 222186 38715 106581 47.97%Shortbusinessnews188345 25817 82813 43,7%Total 1190094 224562 592256 49.52%Table 1.
Data about Szeged Corpus 2.0During further developments, the first version ofthe corpus was extended with a 200 thousand-word-long sample of short business news2.
The1Kis, Bal?zs: Windows 2000, Szak kiad?, 20002Short business news originate from the archive ofthe Hungarian News Agency (http://www.mti.hu/).newly added section served as an experimentaldatabase for learning semantic frame mapping tobe later integrated in an IE technology.
Table 1.shows data referring to Szeged Corpus 2.0.2 Annotation of the Szeged CorpusMorpho-syntactic analysis and POS tagging ofthe corpus texts included two steps.
Initially, wordswere morpho-syntactically analysed with the helpof the Humor3 automatic pre-processor.
Theprogram determined the possible morpho-syntacticlabels of the lexicon entries, thereby creating theambiguous version of the corpus.
After the pre-processing, the entire corpus was manuallydisambiguated (POS tagged) by linguists.
For thetagging of the Szeged Corpus, the Hungarianversion of the internationally acknowledged MSD(Morpho-Syntactic Description) scheme (Erjavec,Monachini, 1997) was selected.
Due to the fact thatthe MSD encoding scheme is extremely detailedand refined (one label can store information on upto 17 positions), there is a large number ofambiguous cases, i.e.
one word is likely to havemore than one possible labels.
Experiences showthat by applying the MSD encoding scheme,roughly every second word of the corpus isambiguous.
Disambiguation, therefore, requiredaccurate and detailed work cumulating up to 64person-months of manual annotation.
Currently allpossible labels as well as the selected ones arestored in the corpus.A unique feature of the corpus is that parallel toPOS tagging, users?
rules have been defined foreach ambiguous word in a pre-selected (202 600-word-long) section of the corpus.
The aim ofapplying users?
rules was to mark the relevantcontext (relevant set of words) that determines theselection of a certain POS tag.
Users?
rules applybefore1, before2, ... after1, after2, ...predicates for marking the relevant context of aword4.
The manually defined rules can then begeneralised to regular disambiguation rulesapplicable to unknown texts as well.
Out of theselected 202 600 words 114 951 were ambiguous.Annotators defined users?
rules for these casesamong which 26 912 different ones were found.The major advantage of the defined rules lies intheir accuracy and specificity, wherefore they arean interesting and valuable source of additionallinguistic information that can e.g.
support themore precise training of machine learningalgorithms.3The Humor morpho-syntactic analyser is a productof the MorphoLogic Ltd. Budapest.4The predicate after2 e.g., denotes the secondword to the right of the focus word.After the completion of POS tagging, a project5was initiated to encompass shallow syntacticparsing of the Szeged Corpus.
The linguisticinformation identified by shallow syntactic parsingproves to be rich enough to support a number oflarge-scale NLP applications including informationextraction (IE), text summarisation, machinetranslation, phrase identification in informationretrieval, named entity identification, and a varietyof text-mining operations.
In order to achieve theirgoal, researchers of the University of Szeged,Department of Informatics, the MorphoLogic Ltd.Budapest, and the Research Institute forLinguistics at the Hungarian Academy of Scienceshad to conduct some research concerning thesyntax of Hungarian sentences, NP annotationschemes, and rules covering the recognition ofphrases.
Results showed that in Hungarian,nominal structures typically bear the mostsignificant meaning (semantic content) within asentence, therefore NP annotation seemed to be themost reasonable step forward.Shallow parsing was carried out on the entireSzeged Corpus 2.0 (1.2 million words).
Automatedpre-parsing was completed with the help of theCLaRK6 program, in which regular syntactic ruleshave been defined by linguistic experts for therecognition of NPs.
Due to the fact that the CLaRKparser did not fully cover the occurring NPstructures (its coverage was around 70%), manualvalidation and correction could not be avoided.
Intotal, 250 thousand highest level NPs were found,and the deepest NP structure contained 9 NPsimbedded into each other.
The majority of thehierarchic NP structures were between 1 to 3 NPsdeep.
Manual validation and correction lasted 60person-months.As a continuation of shallow parsing, the clausestructure (CPs) of the corpus sentences was alsomarked.
Labelling clauses followed the sameapproach as earlier phases of NLP: it comprised anautomatic pre-annotation followed by manualcorrection and supplementation.3 Use of the Szeged Corpus for training andtesting machine learning algorithmsDue to the accurate and exhaustive manualannotation, the resulting corpus (both first andsecond versions) could serve as an adequate5National Research and Development Programmes(NKFP) 2/017/2001 project funded by the HungarianMinistry of Education, titled Information Extractionfrom Short Business News.6The CLaRK system was developed by Kiril Simovat the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in the frameworkof the BulTreeBank project.database for the training and testing of machinelearning algorithms.
The applicability of thesealgorithms in Hungarian NLP was extensivelystudied in the past couple of years (Horv?th et al,1999), (H?cza et al, 2003).
Researchers of theUniversity of Szeged experimented with differentkind of POS tagging methods and compared theirresults based on accuracy.
Brill?s transformation-based learning method (Brill, 1995) worked with96.52% per word accuracy when trained and testedon the corpus.
The HMM-based TnT tagger(Brants, 2000) performed 96.18%, while theRGLearn rule-based tagger (H?cza et al, 2003)produced 94.54% accuracy.
Researchers alsoexperimented with the combination of the differentlearning methods in order to increase accuracy.The best accuracy result, delivered by combiningthe above three methods, was 96.95%.
Overallresults showed that despite the agglutinating natureof Hungarian language and the structuraldifferences between Hungarian and other Indo-European languages, all of the mentioned methodscan be used effectively for learning POS tagging.The applicability of machine learning methodsfor learning NP recognition rules was alsoinvestigated.
The C 4.5 (Quinlan, 1993) and theRGLearn rule-based algorithms were selected forthe learning process.
NP recognition rules havebeen retrieved from the annotated corpus and werecombined with manually defined expert rules.
Themain task of the NP recognition parser is toprovide the best possible coverage of NP structuresCategories ofrecognitionPrecision Recall AccuracyComplete NPs 81.28% 87.43% 84.32%Boundaries (first andlast element) of NPs 88.31% 92.08% 90.54%NPs (depth<=2) 86.02% 89.72% 88.37%NPs (depth>2) 74.71% 78.19% 76.61%Average 82.58% 86.85% 84.96%Table 3.
Test results of the RGLearn parserThe mentioned algorithms ?
although still underdevelopment ?
already perform between 80-90%accuracy (see Table 3.).
Their performancestrongly depends on the type of the processed text:phrase structures are recognised with betteraccuracy in news or technical type of texts than instudent?s compositions (where sentences are oftengrammatically inaccurate) or legal texts (wheresentences are typically extremely long, andfragmented).As a continuation of the work, an automatedmethod was developed to perform IE from shortbusiness news.
The 200 thousand word long, shortbusiness news section of the corpus was used asthe training database for the IE tool.
In thepreparatory phase, the selected section of thecorpus was enriched with semantic information.Possible semantic roles, such as SELLER,BUYER, PRODUCT, PRICE, DATE etc., wereassociated with each word, and were stored in asemantic dictionary.
The most typical events ofbusiness life were represented by so-calledsemantic frames describing the relations of thedifferent semantic roles.
Possible frames weredefined manually by linguists and allowedmapping between the lexical representation and thesemantic role of a word.
Semantic mapping ruleswere acquired by machine learning algorithms thatused the manually annotated semantic roles as theirlearning source.
The recognition of semanticframes was also supported by the series of NLPmethods described earlier (i.e.
POS tagging andshallow parsing).During the developed information extractionprocess, the trained mapping tool takes a morpho-syntactically and syntactically annotated piece oftext and performs two operations.
First, itprocesses the morpho-syntactically disambiguatedand shallow parsed text and assigns semantic rolesto the words.
The second operation determinesrelationships between the roles, i.e.
maps semanticframes onto the existing structures.
Semanticmapping is realised by simple pattern-matchingmethods using the frames previously defined byexperts.
Based on the results of the describedoperations, the mapping tool builds a semanticrepresentation of the input text, already containingthe required information.
Results produced by thismethod were tested against the manually annotatedcorpus and showed that it identifies semantic roleswith 94-99% accuracy and maps frames with up to80% accuracy.4 Current and future worksCurrent works aim at a more detailed syntacticanalysis of the Szeged Corpus.
With this,developers intend to lay the foundation of aHungarian treebank, which is planned to beenriched with detailed semantic information aswell in the future.
The development of a suitabletechnique for the recognition and annotation ofnamed entities (e.g., multi-word proper nouns) andspecial tokens (e.g., time expressions, dates,measures, bank account numbers, web- and e-mailaddresses, etc.)
is also planned in the near future.Further works aim at building firstly domainspecific, later general ontologies and at developingautomated methods that allow for extensivesemantic analysis and processing of Hungariansentences.5 Related workCorpus-based methods play an important role inempirical linguistics as well as in the application ofmachine learning algorithms.
Annotated referencecorpora, such as the Brown Corpus (Kucera,Francis, 1967), the Penn Treebank (Marcus et al,1993), and the BNC (Leech et al, 2001.
), havehelped both the development of Englishcomputational linguistics tools and English corpuslinguistics.
Manual POS tagging and syntacticannotation are costly but allow one to build andimprove sizable linguistic resources and also totrain and evaluate automated analysers..
The NEGRA (Skut at al., 1997) POS taggedand syntactically annotated corpus of 355 thousandtokens was the first initiative in corpus linguisticsfor German.
The more recent TIGER Treebankproject (Brants et al, 2002) aims at building thelargest and most extensively annotated treebank forGerman.
Currently, it comprises 700 thousandtokens of newspaper text that were automaticallyanalysed and manually checked.
Considerableresults were achieved for Czech in the frameworkof the Prague Dependency Treebank project(Hajic, 1998), and for Bulgarian in theBulTreeBank project (Simov et al, 2003) as well.The Szeged Corpus project is comparable bothin size and in depth of analysis to the corpus andtreebank initiatives mentioned above7.
As the firstsuch like initiative for Hungarian language, it is avaluable source for linguistic research and asuitable training and testing basis for machineapplications and automated induction of linguisticknowledge.ReferencesAlexin Z., Csirik J., Gyim?thy T., Bibok K.,Hatvani Cs., Pr?sz?ky G., Tihanyi L.: ManuallyAnnotated Hungarian Corpus in Proc.
of theResearch Note Sessions of the 10th Conferenceof the European Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (EACL?03), pp.
53-56, Budapest, Hungary (2003)Brants, T.: TnT - A Statistical Part-of-SpeechTagger, in Proc.
of the Sixth Conference onApplied Natural Language Processing (ANLP),Seattle, WA (2000)Brants, S., Dipper, S., Hansen, S., Lezius, W. andSmith, G.: The TIGER Treebank in Proc.
of theWorkshop on Treebanks and LinguisticTheories, Sozopol, Bulgaria (2002)Brill, E.: Transformation-based error-drivenlearning and natural language processing: A7The different versions of the Szeged Corpus areavailable at http://www.inf.u-szeged.hu/hlt.case study in part-of-speech tagging,Computational Linguistics, vol.
21 (4), pp.
543-565, (1995)Erjavec, T., Monachini, M.: Specification andNotation for Lexicon Encoding, CopernicusProject 106 ?MULTEX-EAST?, Work Package1 ?
Task 1.1, Deliverable D1.1F (1997)Hajic, J.: Building a Syntactically AnnotatedCorpus: The Prague Dependency Treebank inIssues of Valency and Meaning, pp.
106-132,Charles University Press, Prague (1998)Horv?th T., Alexin Z., Gyim?thy T., Wrobel S.:Application of Different Learning Methods toHungarian Part-of-Speech Tagging in Proc.
ofthe 9th International Workshop on InductiveLogic Programming (ILP99), pp.
128-139, Bled,Slovenia and in the LNAI series vol 1634,Springer Verlag (1999)H?cza A., Alexin Z., Csendes D., Csirik J.,Gyim?thy T.: Application of ILP methods indifferent natural language processing phases forinformation extraction from Hungarian texts inProc.
of the Kalm?r Workshop on Logic andComputer Science, pp.
107-116, Szeged,Hungary (2003)Kucera H., and Francis, W. N.: Brown CorpusManual Providence, Rhode Island, BrownUniversity Press (1979)Leech, G., P. Rayson and A. Wilson: WordFrequencies in Written and Spoken English:based on the British National Corpus, Longman,London (2001)Marcus, M., Santorini, B., Marcinkiewicz, M.:Building a large annotated corpus of English:the Penn Treebank in ComputationalLinguistics, vol.
19 (1993)Quinlan, J. R.: C 4.5: Programs for MachineLearning, Morgan Kaufmann Publisher (1993)Simov, K., Simov, A., Kouylekov, M., Ivanova,K., Grigorov, I., Ganev, H.: Development ofCorpora within the CLaRK System: TheBulTreeBank Project Experience in Proc.
of theDemo Sessions of the 10th Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (EACL'03), pp.
243-246, Budapest, Hungary (2003)Skut, W., Brants, T., Krenn, B., Uszkoreit, H.: Alinguistically interpreted corpus of Germannewspaper text in Proc.
of the Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC-98),pp.
705-711, Granade, Spain (1997)
