A Large-Scale Semantic Structure for Chinese SentencesTang LiInstitutue for Infocomm Research21 Heng Mui Keng TerraceSingapore119613Tangli@I2R.a-star.edu.sgJi Donghong, Yang LingpengInstitutue for Infocomm Research21 Heng Mui Keng TerraceSingapore119613{dhji, lpyang}@I2R.a-star.edu.sgAbstractMotivated by a systematic analysis ofChinese semantic relationships, weconstructed a Chinese semantic frameworkbased on surface syntactic relationships, deepsemantic relationships and feature structure toexpress dependencies between lexicalmeanings and conceptual structures, andrelations that underlie those lexical meanings.Analyzing the semantic representations of10000 Chinese sentences, we provide a modelof semantically and syntactically annotatedsentences from which reliable information oncombinatorial possibilities of each semanticitem targeted for analysis can be displayed.We also propose a semantic argument ?
headrelation, ?basic conceptual structure?
and the?Head-Driven Principle?.
Our results show thatwe can successfully disambiguate sometroublesome sentences, and minimize theredundancy in language knowledgedescriptions for natural language processing.1 IntroductionTo enable computer-based analysis of Chinesesentences in natural language texts we havedeveloped a semantic framework, taking intoaccount concepts used in the Berkeley FrameNetProject (Baker, Fillmore, & Lowe 1998; Fillmore& Baker 2001) and the Penn Chinese Tree Bank(Nianwen Xue; Fei Xia et al 2000).
The FrameNetProject, as a computational project, is creating alexical resource for English, based on the principleof  semantic frames.
It has tried to concentrate onframes which help to explain the meanings ofgroups of words, rather than frames that cover justone word.
The representation of the valences of itstarget words and descriptions of the semanticframes underlying the meanings of the wordsdescribed are the mainly part of the database.
ThePenn Chinese Tree Bank analyzed the syntacticstructure of a phrase or sentence for  selected text,based on the current research in Chinese syntaxand the linguistic expertise of those involved inthis project.
Different from Pan?s syntacticstructures and FrameNet?s semantic frames, ourobject is to record exactly how the semanticfeatures relates frames to those syntacticconstituents.
The key task is to determine therelationship between the two direct constituents interms of the semantic relationship.
The grammarfunctions are also considered for primarilyidentifying the relation.
Here, we use methodsdeveloped for the analysis of semanticrelationships to produce a framework based on thedirect component link.
Our framework is largely asemantic one, but it has adopted some crucialprinciples of syntactic analysis in the semanticstructure analysis.In this paper, we present our model ofsemantically and synactically annotated 10000Chinese sentences.
The focus is on the analysis ofthe semantic relationships between one word toanother in a sentence.
We also briefly discuss theannotation process.2 Theoretical Framework and Case StudyThe basic assumption of Frame Semantics(Fillmore 1976;1977; Fillmore & Atkins 1992;Petruck 1996) as it applies to the description oflexical meanings is that each word (in a givenmeaning) evokes a particular frame and possiblyprofiles some element or aspect of that frame.
Bybeing linked to frames, each word is directlyconnected with other words in its frame(s).
whereword dependence association are needed fromsurface syntactic structures which actually reflectthe grammatical relationship to the deep semanticsstructure whereby semantic content are put intonatural language.
The meaning of a word, in mostcases, is best demonstrated by reference to asemantic network.
Referential meaning on its ownis insufficient.
Word meaning would include theother dimensions concerning the structure andfunction of words.
Unlike English, in which thereare two major types of evidence that help todetermine the syntactic structure of a phrase orsentence: morphological information anddistributional information (such as word order) ,  inChinese the lack of conclusive morphological cuesmakes ambiguity analyses for one sentence morelikely.
Moreover, most Chinese sentences order arevery flexible.
Phrase omission, word  movement,ellipsis and binding also make it difficult tocharacterize their grammatical relation.
So thesemantic information provides important clues forChinese sentence analyse.
We have to rely onsemantic knowledge to guide role assignment.Thus,  we propose a method allowing a syntacticand semantic-based analysis of sequences andrelationship of semantic items to obtain thecommon distribution of the relationship order.3 MethodThe analysis method that will be presented hereis logically equivalent to the parsing of syntax andsemantic dependency  with feature constraints.The key idea in our method is to avoid thecomplexity hierarchical tree sturcture.
We areconcerned with building structures that reflectbasic relationships between one word and other ina single sentence.
We use methods developed forthe analysis of semantic relationships to produce aframework based on the order link.
We startedfrom an initial analysis based on the surfacesyntactics, then we analyzed deep semanticrelationships, and attempted to improve it byremoving the semantic order from the syntacticstructure and reconnecting them in different places.Since many word phrase patterns are difficult forcomputers to recognize, trying to compromisebetween linguistic correctness and engineeringconvenience, we link the difference semantic roleson the flat level, while employing a few templaterules.
All semantic words are linked on the samelevel.
They are non-hierarchical constructs.
Thisflatted representation allows access to variouslevels of syntactic description tree simultaneously.In fact, the purpose of generalization is to get aregular expression from the original sentence.We manually tagged two kind of relationshipamong our large-scale frameworks: 1. syntax-semantic relationship; 2. semantic featurerelationship.Our framework consists of a set of nodes and aset of arcs that join the nodes, with each word orconcept corresponding to a node and links betweenany two nodes that are directly associated.
Thebasic links in the framework are between one worditem to another based on immediate semanticdeperdency order.
We summarized the immediatesemantic relationship through a variety of semanticrelation features such as agent, reason, result andso on.
The feature of relationship between twonodes are labeled on the arc.We developed the first fully instantiatedsemantic structure by manually labeling semanticrepresentations in a machine-readable format.
Tomake sure that our model can deal with variouskinds of texts in real life situations, we haveanalysed 10000 sentences from large Web sitecorpora based on our formal model.
Our aim is notto describe in detail any specific, but to capture atan abstract level the semantic relations between thedirect components in a sentence.
Our model?s mostimportant domain of application is to Chinesesentence analysis, but it may also be applicable todifferent languages.
This semantic framworkconstructs a model on the basis of a few rules.The present paper indicates how situation typesare represented, how these representations arecomposed from semantic representations oflinguistic constituents, and how these typedifferences affect the expression of sentences.3.1 Syntax-Semantics Relationship LabelingThis work flow includes linking and labeling ofeach relation between direct semantic items insingle sentences, which reflects different semanticrepresentation, and descriptions of the relations ofeach frame?s basic conceptual structure in terms ofsemantic actions.
A semantic representation is afeature that allows one word in the sentence topoint at some other word to which it is related.
Aword in a sentence may have much directrepresentation, these are differentiated by thesemantic action.
By analyzing the direct se manticrepresentation, we can capture semanticrelationships between words, reconstructing aframework for the order of Chinese sentences.In most cases syntactic relationships areconsistent with semantic relationships.
Thefollowing framework shows show some importantsimilarities between the structure of syntactic andsemantic structure.
For example, in?????.
?
?I am watching TV.?
?Syntactically,  ??
??
I?
is subject, directlyrelating to the verbal predicate ???
?watch?, ???
??TV?
is object , also links to the verbalpredicate directly.
???
?be doing?as a adverb isan adjoined predicate ???
?watch?, there is adirect relationship between the two nodes.Semantically,  ???
?I?is the agent and ????
?TV?is the recipients, both of them have a directrelationship with the activity ????watch?.
Sowe link the different nodes as follows:In cases where the relationship between syntaxand semantics is inconsistent, by syntactic analysis,if there are multiple syntactic analyses among asentence, we always choose the analysis3.2 ?Head?
Determination relationship that is consistent with the semanticrelationship.
For example, the Chinese sentence The basic link is the direct link between twosemantic units.
In addition, a set of general rulesfor determining the directions has been identified.????????
?many people sit beside the street.
?The above sentence can be analyzed either of thefollowing two syntactic structures.1.
That between  Head and Its Modifier as aCase of Direct Relationshiptype 1: The head (see below), and the modifiers thatcome before it, constitute a type of modificationrelationship, which is one of the typical cases ofdirect relationships, e.g,A.
Gao zige de rentype 2:      tall  body DE personthe person with tall bodyB.
(to be compared with the above sentence)ren de gezi gaoperson DE body tall The two syntactic structures are analyzed withdifference in the first node and the second node.
Intype 1, ????
?beside of the street?is analyzedas subject, for type2, the linguist also analyzed it asadverb modifier, adjuncting to the predicate ????seat?.
But when this sentence is analyzed interms of semantics, there is only one relationshipstructure similar as type 2.
??
??
people?
isanalyzed as agent,  ????
?beside of the street?as localizer, attached to the activity ???
?seat?.This semantic structure is consistent with thesyntactic structure type 2.
Only one structure candisplay both syntax and semantic relationshipsimultaneously.
So we choose the second analysis.
?The person?s body is tall.
?In the above sentence, ren ?person?
and gezi?body?
hold a modification relationship, but gao?tall?
and ren?person?
are related indirectly as therelationship between the two words is realizedthrough that of gezi ?body?.
Therefore, we say thatthe relationship that ren ?person?
holds with gezi?body?
is a direct one, but that with gao is a ratherindirect one.2.
That between An Action Verb and Its Patientas a Case of a Direct relationshipIn case a head noun is an AGENT of an actionverb within a modifying phrase, then therelationship between the Head none and the actionverb is a direct one.
The following sentencesillustrate the point.If the syntactic relationship is different from thesemantic relationship, we take no account of thesyntactic order.
In the Chinese sentence  C. chi pingguo de nuhai.Eat apples DE   girl ???????
?the girl who is eating apples.?
?she cry so much that her eyes become red.?D.
(to be compared with the above sentence) Within the surface syntactic structure, adjective???
?red?will be analyzed as  complementationand directly associated with main verb  ??
??
cry?
, which indicate  result of predicate.Underlying the syntactic structure, ???
?red?actually point to ???
??
eyes?
in semanticrepresentation.
There is no direct semanticrelationship between   ??
?
?
cry?
and ??
??red?.
The semantic network can be analyzed as:she cry + her eyes become red, the immediaterelationship between ?he?
as a possessor and?belly?
as a possession and that between ?belly?
asentity and ?painful?
as description.
In this case welink the node ??
?
?
red?
to ???
?
?eyes?directly based on semantic relationship.nuhai chi pingguogirl    eat apples?The girl is eating apples.
?In the above sentence, nuhai ?girl?
is an AGENTof the action verb chi ?eat?, the two words have adirect semantic relationship, therefore we linkthem directly and annotate ?girl?
as a head.
Incontrary, the relationship between nuhai ?girl?
andpingguo ?apples?
is of an indirect type.3.
Other Cases of Direct RelationshipsIn case there is neither a modification nor anAGENT/PATIENT relationship, the whole phrase,which is still directly related to a followingdescribing phrase, has to be embedded.
E.g.,E.
ban shiqing yinggai guquan daju.Handle problem should care-about overallsituation?People should care about the overall situationwhen they handle problems.?F.
chouyan hai shenti.Smoke   harm health?Smoking harms health.?G.
ta neng daying de shiqing wo ye neng daying.He can accept DE event I also can acceptThe above three head semantic structures clearlyshow us the different relationships among sentenceand noun phrases with different meaning.
The headwords are connected  to  their modifier througharrow arcs.
The first SVO relationship is alsorepresented by non-head tagging.
?The event that he can accept are alsoacceptable to me.
?3.3 ?Head?
DeterminationSince Chinese lacks morphological cues, thegrammatical markers (such as ?????)
andword order are comparatively important cues forthe relationship determination.
We have to rely ongrammatical and semantic knowledge to guide roleassignment.3.4 Feature Abstracting and LabelingBased on the analysis of semantic relationships,we have been parsing feature structures to expressdependencies between semantic features.
In ouranalysis model, semantic feature means a varietyof  detailed semantic relationships.
Most of thetime, semantic features are not so easy to define.Some feature typologies have been provided, butthere is still much discussions about the nature of are in a text.
To avoid the confusion of featureification, we p d a method bstractthe semantic featur tly from se s thatcontain the naturasentences without slabeling the semacategorys include inthe relationship arsemantic framewodimension.
For examIn this study, we have proposed an approach thatcombines ?basic conceptual structure?
and our?Head-Driven Principle?.
According to the ?Head-Driven Principle?, most structures are analyzed ashaving a ?Head?
which is connected to varioustypes of modifiers, such as Head-NP (adjective-noun, noun-adverbial pairs ???
), Head-VP(adverbial-verb, verb-adverbial, adjective-verb?
).In our framework, modification is represented byattaching tags with arrows to the core semanticitem whereve the type of modification can beclearly identified.
Since the SVO is the basic orderin Chinese, there is no modifier relationship amongthe level of SVO.
In our model, ?Subject-PredicateStructures?
and ?Verb-Object Structures?
arerepresented as non-head.
In above example, therelation linking the ?core?
noun and verb with their?adjunct?
is tagged with an arrow to indicate that itis a ?head?.
Both A and B label the ?head?
as thecore noun.
E labels the ?head?
as  the core verb.Employing the ?Head-Driven Principle?
for theconstruction of semantic models.
Some ambiguoussentences can be clearly represented.
The differentmeaning among sentence or phrase  containingsame words can also be described .
Conside thefollowing sentence and phrases:Ta  gezi   bu gHis stature isnHe isn?t tall.statuheIn traditional analconstituent in a senmeaning of the sentis semantic feature lthus in our semantic?tall?
semantically,marking a semantiimmediate constitustructure, after featuto its English cotranslation from one???????
?The students like the teachers.????????
(the students who like the teachers)???????
(the teachers who the students like)All of above examples containing same meaningwords can have very different meaning, dependingon the different word order and grammaticalmarker ??
??DE?
.
We use head tagging toconstruct different frameworks for these structures:  In some sentencefeatures but also thSimilarly we abstracfeatures.
Thus we cato express this levelTa  liang   mihe   two   metersroposee direcl feature word.emantic features intic features reother sentences,cs.
Thus we cork based onple:ao.
?t tall.renotysis, ?stature?
is jutence.
However,ence is ?he is not tinking ?he?
and ?tanalysis we link o?stature?
is takec relationship, raent.
This Chinere abstraction, isunterpart.
It falanguage into anos , there are not oeir particular valuted the values attan expand the featuof detail.
For examgao.tall   to antencefeatuclass For thosensert , we?llfer to theattached onnstructed amulti-profiletallst a syntacticthe essentialall?, ?stature?all?
together,nly ?he?
andn as featurether than anse semanticvery similarcilitates thether.nly semantices included.ched on  there structuresple?He is two meters tall.
?Several different sentences which should beanalyzed as having the same syntactic structuremay have fundamentally different semanticstructures.
The following three sentences S1,S2and S3, for example, should be analyzed ashaving the syntactic structure, but their semanticstructures are nevertheless represented as S1?, S2?and S3?
respectively in our framework.he talltwometersIn the above framework, ?tall?
is the semanticfeature describing staturs of the agent ?he?
, and?two meters?
express the value of the feature.
Theyprovid different information at different level,constructing a feature sturcture.
NP + V + Adj + NPS1?Ta xiao-tong le duzi 4 The Advantages of Our Semantic Modelhe laugh-painful ASP bellyIn developing our semantic frameworks, we alsohave articulated a framework of ?Noun-Centrality?as a supplement to the widely assumed ?Verb-Centrality?
practice.
We can successfullydisambiguate some troublesome sentences, andminimize the redundancy in language knowledgedescription for natural language processing.
Weautomatically learn a simpler, less redundantrepresentation of the same information.
?He laughed so much that his belly waspainful.
?S2?Wo kan-tou le niI  see- through ASP you?I understand you thoroughly.
?S3?Ta da po-le beiziShe broke up the cup First, comparing syntactic order and semanticorder, we used the reconstructed original order,giving some different order sentences similarresults.
Thus, variations of order in the samesentence can reveal the same relationships.She broke up the cup.S1??
NP         V        Adj     NP                  One semantic structure may correspond to moresyntactic structures in Chinese, and thiscorrespondence can be made specifically clearusing our approach.1.Ta da-lewoShe beat me?She beatme.
?2.Ta ba wo da-leShe BA me beat?She beat me.
?3.Wo BEI Ta da-leI BEI she beat?I have beenbeaten by her.
?The above three sentences, their syntacticstructures are clearly different from each other.That is, the direct object wo ?me?
appears rightafter the main verb in (1) whereas the same logicalobject has moved to a pre-verbal position with thehelp of a special Chinese preposition BA in (2) andto a sentence-initial position with the help of BEIin (3).
But underlying the difference syntacticstructures, they share the same basic semanticstructure, using semantic represented expression,the three sentences of above example can bedescribed in below.AGENT Ta   ?she?PATIENT Wo?me?ACTION Da  ?beat?S2?
?NP            V       Adj     NPS3?
?NP         V   Adj        NPOn the other hand, many structural ambiguitiesin Chinese sentences are one of the major problemsin Chinese syntactic analyses.
One syntacticstructure may correspond to two or more semanticstructures, that is, various forms of structuralambiguity are widely observed in Chinese.Disregarding the semantic types will causesyntactic ambiguity.
If this type of information isnot available during parsing, important clues willbe missing, and loss of accuracy will result.Consider the Chinese sentenceTa de yifu zuo de piaoliang.Her cloth do DE beautifulReading 1:  ?She has made the cloth beautifullyb) minimal redundancy in language knowledgedescription for natural language processing.Reading 2: (Somebody) has made her clothbeautifully.
?We hope to use the minimum analysis method tofind the semantic order with equal relationshipamong new sentence.
We then used the partitionrelationship as a training database to recognizenew order as similar as these order structures.Syntactically, the sentence, with either one ofthe above two semantic interpretations, should beanalyzed asSWe also have been creating feature sets parsingfeature structures to expressing dependenciesbetween semantic features.
Furthermore, weabstracted the values attached to the features.
Thuswe can expand the feature structures to express thislevel of detail./         \NP               VP/        \            /      \NP           N      V         Adj (Complement)|               |        |              |ReferencesTa de     yifu    zuo  de  piaoliangBaker C, Fillmore C, Lower J 1998 TheBerkeley                Her    cloth      make DE beautifulFrameNet Project, In Proc.
of ACL/COLING1998.But the two semantic structures have to beproperly represented in a semantics-orientedframework.
We do so as in type A and type Brespectively.Daniel Gildea and Daniel Jurafsky 2002 Automatic Labeling of Semantic Roles.
In Proc.
ofACL 2000.Type A:   Ta de yifu zuo de piaoliang.
Nianwen Xue, Fei Xia 2000 The BracketingGuidelines for the Pann Chinese Treebank, IRCSReport 00-08 University of Pennsylvania, Oct2000Her cloth do DE beautifulDominique Dutoit, Thierry Poibeau 2002 InferringKnowledge from a Large Semantic Network, InProc.
of COLING 2000Type B: Ta     de yifu zuo de piaoliang.
James Henderson, Paola Merlo, Ivan Petroff  2002Using Syntactic Analysis to Increase Efficiencyin Visualizing Text Collections, In Proc.
ofACL/COLING 2002.Her cloth do DE beautifulSo under our proposal, the above two differenttypes of semantic relations can be clearlyrepresented..5 ConclusionIn this paper we have demonstrated how oursemantic model can be created to analyze andrepresent the semantic relationships of Chinesesentence structures.
The semantic model project isproducing a structured tree bank with a richer setof semantic and syntactic relationships of differentwords on the basis of the analysis of lexicalmeanings and conceptual structures that underliethose lexical meanings.
We developed somemethods for determining the relationship betweendirect semantic items based on the analysis ofsyntactic and semantic order.
The key advantagesof our semantic model are:a) many ambiguous sentences can be clearlyrepresented.
