Discourse Annotation and Semantic Annotation in the GNOME CorpusMassimo PoesioUniversity of Essex,Department of Computer Science and Centre for Cognitive Science,United KingdomAbstractThe GNOME corpus was created to study the dis-course and semantic properties of discourse entitiesthat affect their realization and interpretation, andparticularly salience.
We discuss what informationwas annotated and the methods we followed.1 IntroductionThe GNOME corpus was created to study the as-pects of discourse that appear to affect generation,especially salience (Pearson et al, 2000; Poesio andDi Eugenio, 2001; Poesio and Nissim, 2001; Poesioet al, 2004b).
Particular attention was paid to thefactors affecting the generation of pronouns (Pear-son et al, 2000; Henschel et al, 2000), demon-stratives (Poesio and Nygren-Modjeska, To appear)possessives (Poesio and Nissim, 2001) and definitesin general (Poesio, 2004a).
These results, and theannotated corpus, were used in the development ofboth symbolic and statistical natural language gen-eration algorithms for sentence planning (Poesio,2000a; Henschel et al, 2000; Cheng et al, 2001),aggregation (Cheng, 2001) and text planning (Kara-manis, 2003).
The empirical side of the project in-volved both psychological experiments and corpusannotation, based on a scheme based on the MATEproposals, as well as on a detailed annotation man-ual (Poesio, 2000b), the reliability of whose instruc-tions was tested by extensive experiments (Poe-sio, 2000a).
More recently, the corpus has alsobeen used to develop and evaluate anaphora resolu-tion systems, with a special focus on the resolutionof bridging references (Poesio, 2003; Poesio andAlexandrov-Kabadjov, 2004; Poesio et al, 2004a)Although the results of the studies using theGNOME corpus mentioned above have been pub-lished in a number of papers, and although a de-tailed annotation manual was written and has beenavailable on the Web for a few years (Poesio,2000b), none of the previously published papers dis-cusses in detail the goals of the annotation and themethodology that was followed, especially for thenon-anaphoric aspects.
In this paper we discuss themethods used to identify possible ?utterances,?
theproperties of NPs and discourse entities that wereannotated, and (very briefly) anaphoric information..2 The DataTexts from three domains were (partially) anno-tated.
The museum subcorpus consists of descrip-tions of museum objects and brief texts about theartists that produced them.1 The pharmaceuticalsubcorpus is a selection of leaflets providing thepatients with legally mandatory information abouttheir medicine.2 The GNOME corpus also includestutorial dialogues from the Sherlock corpus col-lected at the University of Pittsburgh.
Each sub-corpus contains about 6,000 NPs, but not all typesof annotation have been completed for all domains.All sentences, units and NPs have been identified,and all ?syntactic?
properties of NPs (agreement fea-ture and grammatical function).
Anaphoric rela-tions have been annotated in about half of the textsin each domain; and the more complex semanticproperties (taxonomic properties, genericity, etc.)
inabout 25% of these texts.
The total size of the anno-tated corpus is about 60K.3 Identifying UtterancesIn order to use a corpus to study salience, it is es-sential to find a way to annotate what in Center-1The museum subcorpus extends the corpus collected tosupport the ILEX and SOLE projects at the University of Ed-inburgh (Oberlander et al, 1998).2The leaflets in the pharmaceutical subcorpus are a subsetof the collection of all patient leaflets in the UK which wasdigitized to support the ICONOCLAST project at the Universityof Brighton (Scott et al, 1998).ing theory (Grosz et al, 1995) are called UTTER-ANCES, i.e., the units of text after which the localfocus is updated.
In most annotations concernedwith salience, a predefined notion of utterance wasadopted, typically sentences (Miltsakaki, 2002) or(finite) clauses (Kameyama, 1998).
This approach,however, precludes using the corpus to comparepossible definitions of utterance, one of the goalsof the GNOME annotation (Poesio et al, 2004b).In order to do this, we marked all spans of textthat might be claimed to update the local focus, in-cluding sentences (defined as all units of text endingwith a full stop, a question mark, or an exclama-tion point) as well as what we called (DISCOURSE)UNITS.
Units include clauses (defined as sequencesof text containing a verbal complex, all its oblig-atory arguments, and all postverbal adjuncts) aswell as other sentence subconstituents that mightbe viewed as independently updating the local fo-cus, such as parentheticals, preposed PPs, and (thesecond element of) coordinated VPs.
Examples ofclauses, verbal and non-verbal parentheticals, andpreposed PPs marked as units follow; the parenthe-ses indicate unit boundaries.
(Sentence boundariesare not indicated.
)(1) a. clausal unit with non-verbal parentheti-cal: (It?s made in the shape of a real object(?
a violin))b. clausal unit with preposed PP and em-bedded relative clauses: ((With the de-velopment of heraldry in the later MiddleAges in Europe as a means of identifica-tion), all (who were entitled (to bear arms))wore signet-rings (engraved with their ar-morial bearings))As example (1b) above illustrates, subordinate unitssuch as clausal complements and relative clauseswere enclosed within the superordinate unit.
Sub-ordinate units also include adjunct clauses headedby connectives such as before, after, because andclauses in subject position.
In total, the texts usedfor the main study contain 505 sentences and morethan 1,000 units, including 900 finite clauses.3Sentence and Unit Attributes Sentences haveone attribute, STYPE, specifying whether the sen-tence is declarative, interrogative, imperative, or ex-clamative.
The attributes of units include:?
UTYPE: whether the unit is a main clause,a relative clause, appositive, a parenthet-3Our instructions for marking up such elements benefitedfrom the discussion of clauses in (Quirk and Greenbaum, 1973)and Marcu?s proposals for discourse units annotation (1999).ical, etc.
The possible values for thisattribute are main, relative, such-as,appositive, parenthetical,paren-rel, paren-app, paren-main, subject, complement, adjunct,coord-vp,preposed-pp, listitem,cleft, title, disc-marker.?
VERBED: whether the unit contains a verb.?
FINITE: for verbed units, whether the verb isfinite or not.?
SUBJECT: for verbed units, whether they havea full subject, an empty subject (expletive, as inthere sentences), or no subject (e.g., for infini-tival clauses).Annotation Issues Marking up sentences provedto be quite easy; marking up units, on the otherhand, required extensive annotator training.
Theagreement on identifying the boundaries of units,using the ?
statistic discussed in (Carletta, 1996),was ?
= .9 (for two annotators and 500 units); theagreement on features (2 annotators and at least 200units) was as follows: UTYPE: ?=.76; VERBED:?=.9; FINITE: ?=.81.
The main problemswhen marking units were to identify complements,to distinguish clausal adjuncts from prepositionalphrases, and how to mark up coordinated units.
Themain problem with complements was to distinguishnon-finite complements of verbs such as want fromthe non-finite part of verbal complexes containingmodal auxiliaries such as get, let, make, and have:(2) a.
(I would like (to be able to travel))b.
(I let him do his homework)One problem that proved fairly difficult to han-dle (and which, in fact, we didn?t entirely solve)was clausal coordination.
The problem was to pre-serve enough structure to be able to compute theprevious utterance, while preserving some basic in-tuitions about what constitutes a clause (roughly,that by and large clauses were text spans markedeither by the presence of a semantically isolatedverb or by punctuation / layout) which are essen-tial for annotators and are needed to specify the val-ues of attributes.
This was relatively easy to dowhen two main clauses were coordinated; coordi-nated main clauses were marked as in (3a).
How-ever, it wasn?t completely obvious what to do in thecase of coordination within a subordinate clause, asin (3b).
Because there weren?t many such cases,rather than using the ?unit?
element with a spe-cial value for UTYPE as we did for coordinated NPs(which meant specifying all sorts of special val-ues for attributes) we used a markup element called?unit-coordination?
to maintain the struc-ture, and then marked up each clause separately,as shown in (3c) (the ?unit-coordination?
ismarked with square brackets).
(3) a.
(The Getty museum?s microscope stillworks,) (and the case is fitted with adrawer filled with the necessary attach-ments).b.
(If you have any questions or are not sureabout anything, ask your doctor or yourpharmacist)c. ((If [(you have any questions) or (you arenot sure about anything)]), ask your doctoror your pharmacist)The elements of text not marked up as units in-clude: NPs, post-verbal and post-nominal PPs, non-verbal NP modifiers, coordinated VPs in case thesecond conjunct did not have arguments (4a), andquoted parts of text, when not reported speech (4b).
(4) a.
(The oestradiol and norethisterone acetateare plant derived and synthetically pro-duced)b.
(The inscription ?CHNETOCBASHLHKOC CPATHARHC?
)Layout Our genres raised a few issues that, as faras we know, have not been previously discussed inthe Centering literature.
One such problem is whatto do with layout elements such as titles and list ele-ments, which can clearly serve as the first introduc-tion of a CF and to move the CB.
One example oftitle unit is unit (u1) in (5).
(5) (u1) Side effectsSide effects may occur when PRODUCT-Y is applied to large parts of the body,We marked these layout elements as units, as in (6),but using the special value title of the attributeUTYPE (see above) so that we could test whether itwas better to treat them as utterances or not.
(6) <unit id="u1" utype="title">Sideeffects</unit><p><s stype="decl"><unit> Sideeffects may occur <unit>when PRODUCT-Y is applied to large parts of the body, ...</unit> ... </unit> ... </s> ... </p>Problems with Attributes The most difficult at-tribute to mark was UTYPE, and our main problemwas to distinguish between relative clauses and par-entheticals, since it?s not always easy to tell whethera relative clause is restrictive or non-restrictive (seealso (Cheng et al, 2001)).
In the end, we adoptedrules purely based on surface form (the presence orabsence of a comma or other bracketing device).
(See also (Quirk and Greenbaum, 1973).
)Utterances and Propositions The annotation ofunits has been shown useful to identify many of theatomic propositions expressed by a text, and wastherefore used as a basis for studying text planning(Karamanis, 2003) and aggregation (Cheng, 2001).4 Properties of Discourse Entities andtheir RealizationThe main goal of the GNOME annotation was tostudy the factors that affect the realization of dis-course entities, focusing on those entities realized asNPs.
Hence, our main concern was to identify andto annotate the relevant properties both of discourseentities themselves and their realizations in a partic-ular utterance (which we will call FORWARD LOOK-ING CENTERS, or CFs, following Centering?s termi-nology).
Both types of properties were annotated asproperties of the ?ne?
element, used to mark up NPsin the corpus.
Overall, we annotated 14 attributes of?ne?
elements, specifying the syntactic and seman-tic properties of NPs and the semantic properties ofthe discourse entities they realize.
We discuss theseattributes in this section.
We also annotated seman-tic relations between discourse entities, particularlywhen they express anaphoric relations.
Anaphoricannotation is discussed in the next section.4.1 Marking up NEsThe ?ne?
element is used to mark NPs, as in thefollowing example (the attributes will be discussedbelow):(7) <unit finite=?finite-yes?
id=?u3?
utype=?main?verbed=?verbed-yes?><ne id="ne2" cat="poss-np" per="per3" num="sing"gen="neut" gf="subj" lftype="term"onto="concrete" ani="inanimate"deix="deix-no" count="undersp-count"structure="undersp-structure"generic="generic-no" loeb="sem-function"><ne id="ne3" cat="this-np" per="per3" num="sing"gen="neut" gf="gen" lftype="term"onto="concrete" ani="inanimate"deix="deix-yes" count="count-yes"structure="atom"generic="generic-no" loeb="pragm-function">This table?s</ne></ne>allow<ne id="ne4" cat="bare-np" per="per3" num="plur"gen="neut" gf="obj" lftype="term" onto="person"ani="animate" deix="deix-no" count="count-yes"structure="set" generic="generic-yes" loeb="sort">scholars </ne><unit finite=?finite-no?
id=?u4?
utype=?complement?verbed=?verbed-yes?>to link<ne id="ne5" cat="pers-pro" per="per3" num="sing"gen="neut" gf="obj" lftype="term" onto="concrete"ani="inanimate" deix="deix-yes" count="count-yes"structure="atom" generic="generic-no"loeb="disc-function"> it </ne>...The GNOME instructions for identifying NPs derivefrom those proposed in MATE (Poesio et al, 1999),in turn derived from DRAMA (Passonneau, 1997)and MUC-7 (Hirschman, 1998).
An important dif-ference between the instructions used for GNOMEand those developed for MATE is that instead of at-tempting to get the annotators to recognize the NPthat realize discourse entities and only mark those,in GNOME all NPs were marked with ?ne?
elements;the separate LF TYPE attribute was used to distin-guish between NPs with different types of denota-tions (see below).
This change made the process ofidentifying nominal entities easier and potentiallyautomatic (even though the identification of mark-ables was still done by hand).As in the case of units, the main problem withmarking up NPs was coordination.
Our approachwas to use a separate ?ne?
element to mark up thecoordinated NP, with type (CAT) value coord-np.We only used a coord-np element if two deter-miners were present, as in ((your doctor) and (yourpharmacist)).
This approach was chosen because itlimited the number of spurious coordinations intro-duced (in cases such as this is an interesting andwell-known example of early Byzantine jewellery),but has the limitation that only one ?ne?
is markedin cases such as Your doctor or pharmacist.4.2 Properties of all NPsSome of the attributes of ?ne?
elements specifyproperties of all NPs, whether or not they realize adiscourse entity.
We discuss these first.CAT The CAT attribute is used to mark NP type:whether the NP is a pronoun, a definite description,etc..
This attribute is only meant to provide avery surface-y classification, without attempting togroup NPs in larger classes such as ?definite NP?
and?indefinite NP?.
The one attempt to go beyond puresurface was the introduction of a distinction be-tween definite descriptions that are really disguisedproper names such as the Beatles, classified asCAT=the-pn, and all other definite descriptions,classified as the-np.
The complete list ofvalues for CAT is: a-np, another-np, q-np,num-np, meas-np, that-np, this-np,such-np, wh-np, poss-np, bare-np, pn,the-pn, the-np, pers-pro, poss-pro,refl-pro, rec-pro, q-pro, wh-pro,this-pro, that-pro, num-ana (for ?nu-merical anaphors?
such as one in I want one),null-ana, gerund (for nominalized presentparticiples such as veneering furniture in thepractice of veneering furniture), coord-np, andfree-rel (for ?free relatives?
such as what youneed most in what you need most is a good rest)).The agreement on this attribute was pretty high,?
= .9; the one problem was the distinction be-tween the-pn and the-np.Agreement features: NUM, PER, and GEN Theseatributes are used to annotate features that are im-portant to study pronoun interpretation: gender,number and person of NPs.
Person and number weregenerally easy to annotate, but gender was very dif-ficult because of the presence of many references toindividual of unspecified gender, such as the makerin the inventory gives neither the name of the makernor the location.
This problem was solved by intro-ducing a special undersp-gen value; indeed, un-derspecified values were provided for all attributes.The agreement values for these features were: GEN:?
= .89; NUM: ?
= .84; PER: ?
= .9.GF This attribute was used to annotate the gram-matical function of the NP, a property generallytaken to play an important role in determiningthe salience of the discourse entity it realizes(Grosz et al, 1995).
Our instructions for thisattribute are derived from those used in theFRAMENET project ((Baker et al, 1998); see alsohttp://www.icsi.berkeley.edu/?framenet/).The values are subj, obj, predicate (usedfor post-verbal objects in copular sentences, suchas This is (a production watch)), there-obj(for post-verbal objects in there-sentences), comp(for indirect objects), adjunct (for the argumentof PPs modifying VPs), gen (for NPs in deter-miner position in possessive NPs), np-compl,np-part, np-mod, adj-mod, and no-gf (forNPs occurring by themselves - eg., in titles).
Theagreement values for GF is ?
= .85.LF TYPE Not all NPs realize discourse entities:some of them realize quantifiers (e.g., each cofferin Each coffer has a lid) or predicates (e.g., NPs inappositive position, such as the oldest son of LouisXIV in The 1689 inventory of the Grand Dauphin,the oldest son of Louis XIV, lists a jewel coffer ofsimilar form and decoration.
As said above, in theGNOME annotation all NPs are treated as markables,but the LF TYPE attribute is used to indicate thetype of semantic object denoted by an NP: term,quant or pred.
Quantifiers were identified purelyon the basis of the value of the CAT value: all NPswith CAT=q-np or q-pro should get a value ofquant.
A more complex test was used to identifypredicative NPs: three linguistic contexts in whichNP are typically predicative were considered (appo-sitions, postcopular position in there-sentences, andbecome-style sentences) but the annotators were ex-plicitly asked to check whether the NP was used toexpress a property.
Agreement was more tentative:?
= .73 (for two annotators, 200 NPs).Taxonomic information Two semantic attributescapture information about the type of objects re-ferred to (or quantifier over) by an NP.
The firstattribute, ONTO, was originally introduced to distin-guish between gerunds (event nominalizations suchas letter-writing) and bare plurals referring to con-crete objects like scholars, both of which semanti-cally denote collective objects (Link, 1983; Portner,1992).
Further distinctions were introduced to dealwith ?difficult?
objects, such as diseases; particulartypes of concrete objects such as medicines and per-sons were also singled out.
Distinctions capturedby the current set of values of ONTO include per-sons, medicines, other substances, other concreteobjects; events, time intervals, or other abstract enti-ties; spatial locations; and diseases.
The agreementvalue for the latest version of ONTO was ?
= .8between two annotators, 200 NPs.The second ?taxonomic?
attribute, ANI, is usedto annotate whether the objects referred to or quan-tifier over by an NP are animate or inanimate.
Thisannotation was motivated by a number of studiessuggesting that animacy plays an important role insalience (Prat-Sala and Branigan, 2000) and ourown experiments suggesting that animacy is muchmore important than grammatical function, the-matic roles, or order of mention in determiningwhich entities are most likely to be pronominal-ized (Pearson et al, 2001).
We also found thatthe discrepancy between the results of Gordon etal.
(1999) and the findings of (Walker and Prince,1996) can be explained in terms of animacy (Poesioand Nissim, 2001).
Animacy was by far the easiestsemantic attribute for our annotators: ?
= .92.4.3 Semantic properties of Discourse EntitiesSemantic properties that may play a role in realiza-tion but only apply to discourse entities include:4Structure Two attributes are used to indicatewhether the discourse entity realized by an NP refersto a mass of certain substance or to countable ob-jects (attribute COUNT) and, in case of countableobjects, to an atom or a set (attribute STRUCTURE).These attributes were marked in order to study the4These attributes were only marked for about 25% of thecorpus.factors leading to the realization of a discourse en-tity as a bare NP, in combination with the annotationof genericity discussed below: the reasoning beingthat it should only be possible to use bare singu-lars to realize a discourse entity described with massnouns (as in the ebeniste and his wife lived modestlyin a five-room apartment .
.
.
with simple furniture).5The main reason for keeping the two at-tributes separate was that reaching agreement onSTRUCTURE was fairly easy (?
= .82 at the secondattempt) whereas COUNT was one of the most dif-ficult attributes to mark?it took several iterations ofchanges to the instructions to achieve a ?
= .78, andsubstantial revisions would probably still be useful.Nevertheless, given currently accepted views deriv-ing from Link?s work (1983), it would make moresense to merge the two attributes.GENERIC This attribute is used to indicatewhether the NP should be interpreted generically ornot, which was thought to affect at least two typesof discourse entity realizations: gerunds, that wetook to be event types, and bare NPs, both singularand referring to substances (e.g., ivory) and plural.Annotating this information proved to be very diffi-cult, which was not surprising because genericity isnot yet a completely understood phenomenon.
Onecomplication is that there are two types of ?genericNPs?
: NPs referring to kinds, such as The dodo inThe dodo is extinct (being extinct is not a propertythat can be predicated of individual dodos), and NPsused in generic statements, such as Italians are goodskiers (a property of individual Italians) (Carlsonand Pelletier, 1995).
Although some NPs can onlybe used to express one or the other interpretation(e.g., * A dodo is extinct), many can be used in bothways (Dodos are extinct).We started trying to make the very basic distinc-tion between tokens and types one finds, e.g., in(Lyons, 1977), but even after numerous refinementswe still encountered many problems.
One of theproblems our annotators had was whether to treatreferences to substances such as ivory and horn inexamples like This table?s marquetry of ivory andhorn ?existentially,?
i.e., as referring to the partic-ular amounts of those substances used in the ta-ble, or ?generically?, to refer to the kinds.
In theend we decided to follow Carlson (1977) and tomark all of these examples as references to kinds,i.e., as generic.
A second problem were quantifiers.Our annotators found it very hard to distinguish5Apart from the cases in which bare singulars are used to re-fer to substances, such as the interiors of this pair of coffers arelined with tortoiseshell and brass, the few discussed exceptionsto this rule are expressions like home in I went home.between quantified NPs used (non-generically) toquantify over a specific set of individuals at a partic-ular spatio-temporal location, as in Many lecturerswent on strike (on March 16th, 2004), and quanti-fiers used in generic sentences, as in Many lectur-ers went (habitually) on strike (during those years).The last version of the instructions (not yet added tothe overall annotation manual) asked annotators totry to identify generic sentences before attemptingto determine the value of the GENERIC attribute.With these instructions, we finally reached a reason-able agreement (?
= .82).LOEB Poesio and Vieira (1998) found that of the1,400 definite descriptions in their corpus, onlyabout 50% were subsequent mention or bridgingreferences, whereas 50% were first mentions.
Ofthe first mentions, about half (i.e., 25% of the to-tal) were what Hawkins (1978) would call ?largersituation?
definites, i.e., definite descriptions likethe pope whose referent is supposed to be part ofshared knowledge; whereas the other half includeswhat Loebner (1987) calls SEMANTICALLY FUNC-TIONAL definites, like the first man on the Moon.Loebner claimed that the paradigmatic case of def-initeness are not anaphoric NPs, as suggested byfamiliarity theories such as Heim?s (1982), but se-mantically functional ones such as the first personever to row across the Pacific on his own.
In or-der to test Loebner?s theory and compare it with onebased on familiarity, we annotated the NPs referringto discourse entities according to whether they werefunctional, relational, or sortal (Poesio, 2004a).
Weachieved good reliability on this attribute (?
= .82),and the results do suggest a much greater correlationbetween functionality and definiteness than betweenfamiliarity and definiteness (Poesio, 2004a).5 AnaphoraThe one aspect of the GNOME annotation that hasbeen extensively discussed in previous papers isanaphoric annotation (Poesio, 2004b; Poesio et al,2004b); we only discuss this aspect briefly here.5.1 Annotating Discourse ModelsAnaphoric annotation raises a number of difficultand, sometimes, unresolved semantic issues (Poe-sio, 2004b).
As part of the MATE and GNOMEprojects, an extensive analysis of previously exist-ing schemes for so-called ?coreference annotation,?such as the MUC-7 scheme, was carried out, high-lighting a number of problems with such schemes,ranging from issues with the annotation method-ology to semantic issues.
Proposals for annotat-ing ?coreference?
such as (Hirschman, 1998) havebeen motivated by work on Information Extraction,hence the notion of ?coreference?
used is very diffi-cult to relate to traditional ideas about anaphora (vanDeemter and Kibble, 2000).
A distinctive featureof the GNOME annotation (and the MATE propos-als from which they derive (Poesio, 2004b)) are ex-plicitly based on the DISCOURSE MODEL assump-tion adopted almost universally by linguists (com-putational and not) working on anaphora resolutionand generation (Webber, 1979; Heim, 1982; Kampand Reyle, 1993; Gundel et al, 1993).
This isthe hypothesis that interpreting a discourse involvesbuilding a shared discourse model containing DIS-COURSE ENTITIES that may or may not ?refer?
tospecific objects in the world, as well as the relationsbetween these entities.
The annotation for which theMATE scheme was developed?that we?ll call here?anaphoric annotation,?
is meant as a partial repre-sentation of the discourse model evoked by a text.5.2 Anaphoric Annotation in GNOMEFor the GNOME corpus, we adopted a simplified ver-sion of the MATE scheme, as for our purposes it?snot essential to mark all semantic relations betweenentities introduced by a text, but only those that mayestablish a ?link?
between two utterances.
So, forexample, it was not necessary for us to mark a rela-tion between the subject of a copular sentence andits predicate - e.g., between the price of aluminumsiding and $3.85 or $4.02 in the example above.In the GNOME corpus, anaphoric information ismarked by means of a special ?ante?
element; the?ante?
element itself specifies the index of theanaphoric expression (a ?ne?
element) and the typeof semantic relation (e.g., identity), whereas one ormore embedded ?anchor?
elements indicate pos-sible antecedents.6 (See (8).
)(8) <unit finite=?finite-yes?
id=?u227?><ne id=?ne546?
gf=?subj?> The drawing of<ne id=?ne547?
gf=?np-compl?>the corner cupboard</ne></ne><unit finite=?no-finite?
id=?u228?>,or more probably<ne id=?ne548?
gf=?no-gf?> an engraving of<ne id=?ne549?
gf=?np-compl?>it </ne></ne></unit>,...</unit><ante current="ne549" rel="ident"> <anchor ID="ne547"></ante>Work such as (Sidner, 1979; Strube and Hahn,1999), as well as our own preliminary analysis,suggested that indirect realization can play a cru-cial role in maintaining the CB.
However, previ-ous attempts at marking anaphoric information, par-ticularly in the context of the MUC initiative, sug-gested that while agreement on identity relations is6The presence of more than one ?anchor?
element indi-cates that the anaphoric expression is ambiguous.fairly easy to achieve, marking bridging referencesis hard; this was confirmed by Poesio and Vieira(1998).
For these reasons, and to reduce the an-notators?
work, we did not mark all relations.
Be-sides identity (IDENT) we only marked up threeassociative relations (Hawkins, 1978): set mem-bership (ELEMENT), subset (SUBSET), and ?gen-eralized possession?
(POSS), which includes part-of relations as well as ownership relations.
Weonly marked relations between objects realized bynoun phrases, excluding anaphoric references to ac-tions, events or propositions implicitly introducedby clauses or sentences.
We also gave strict in-structions to our annotators limiting how much tomark.As expected, we found a reasonable (if notperfect) agreement on identity relations.
In ourmost recent analysis (two annotators looking at theanaphoric relations between 200 NPs) we observedno real disagreements; 79.4% of the relations weremarked up by both annotators; 12.8% by only oneof them; and in 7.7% of the cases, one of the an-notators marked up a closer antecedent than theother.
With associative references, limiting the rela-tions did limit the disagreements among annotators(only 4.8% of the relations are actually marked dif-ferently) but only 22% of bridging references weremarked in the same way by both annotators; 73.17%of relations are marked by only one or the otherannotator.
So reaching agreement on this informa-tion involved several discussions between annota-tors and more than one pass over the corpus.6 Automatically computing the LocalFocusThe reader will have noticed that no attempt wasdone to directly mark up properties of the local fo-cus - e.g., which discourse entity is the CB of a par-ticular utterance.
We found that it is much easierto annotate the ?building blocks?
of a theory of thelocal focus, and then use scripts to automaticallycompute the CB.
There are two advantages to thisapproach: first of all, agreement on the ?buildingblocks?
is much easier to reach than agreement onthe CB?in our preliminary experiments we didn?t gobeyond ?
= .6 when trying to directly identify theCB using the definitions from (Brennan et al, 1987).And secondly, this approach makes it possible tocompute the CB according to different ways of in-stantiating what we call the ?parameters of Center-ing?
?e.g., ranking.We developed such scripts for the work dis-cussed in (Poesio et al, 2004b); they can betested on the web site associated with that paper,http://cswww.essex.ac.uk/staff/poesio/cbc/.
These scripts have been subsequently usedto compute the CB in, e.g., (Poesio and Nissim,2001; Poesio and Nygren-Modjeska, To appear).7 Discussions and ConclusionCorpus consistency The main lesson learnedfrom this effort is that actually using a corpus is thebest way both to ensure its correctness and to learnwhich types of information are most useful.Thematic Roles One attribute on which weweren?t able to reach acceptable agreement was thethematic role of an NP, which has been argued tobe a better indicator of salience than grammaticalfunction (Sidner, 1979; Stevenson et al, 1994); theagreement value in this case was ?
= .35.
Othergroups however have shown that this can be done,e.g., in Framenet (Baker et al, 1998) and more re-cently in PropBank (Kingsbury and Palmer, 2002).Planned Revisions of the Scheme A number ofaspects of the annotation scheme used for the cor-pus could be improved.
An obvious improvementwould be to directly annotate predicates with theirWordNet senses instead of annotating ONTO and an-imacy.
We started doing this for the annotation ofmodifiers (Cheng et al, 2001), and developed an in-terface to WordNet, but too late to redo the wholecorpus.
Of the attributes, COUNT and GENERICwere the most difficult to annotate; further tests withthese attributes could be useful.Automatic annotation A substantial part of theannotation work required for GNOME now could(and should) be done automatically, or semi-automatically.
This includes, most obviously, theidentification of sentences and NPs, already doneautomatically in the VENEX corpus (Poesio, 2004b);and at least grammatical function, animacy, andcountability could be automatically annotated inpreliminary form with existing techniques, and thencorrected by hand.
We also plan to use the corpusto bootstrap techniques for automatic identificationof uniqueness and gender.AcknowledgmentsSpecial thanks to Janet Hitzeman, who collected thefirst subset of the museum domain for SOLE; to Re-nate Henschel, who completed the collection of themuseum subset and wrote the first version of the an-notation manual; to all our annotators; and to Mi-jail Alexandrov-Kabadjov and Nikiforos Karama-nis, who identified a number of annotation prob-lems.
Most of this work was supported by theEPSRC project GNOME, GR/L51126/01.ReferencesC.
F. Baker, C. J. Fillmore, and J.
B Lowe.
1998.
The BerkeleyFrameNet project.
In Proc.
36th ACL.S.E.
Brennan, M.W.
Friedman, and C.J.
Pollard.
1987.
A cen-tering approach to pronouns.
In Proc.
of the 25th ACL.J.
Carletta.
1996.
Assessing agreement on classification tasks:the kappa statistic.
Comp.
Linguistics, 22(2):249?254.G.
N. Carlson and F. J. Pelletier, editors.
1995.
The GenericBook.
University of Chicago Press.G.
N. Carlson.
1977.
Reference to Kinds in English.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Massachusetts, Amherst.H.
Cheng, M. Poesio, R. Henschel, and C. Mellish.
2001.Corpus-based NP modifier generation.
In Proc.
of the Sec-ond NAACL, Pittsburgh.H.
Cheng.
2001.
Modelling Aggregation Motivated Interac-tions in Descr.
Text Generation.
Ph.D. thesis, Edinburgh.P.
C. Gordon, R. Hendrick, K. Ledoux, and C. L. Yang.
1999.Processing of reference and the structure of language: ananalysis of complex noun phrases.
Language and CognitiveProcesses, 14(4):353?379.B.
J. Grosz, A. K. Joshi, and S. Weinstein.
1995.
Centering:A framework for modeling the local coherence of discourse.Computational Linguistics, 21(2):202?225.J.
K. Gundel, N. Hedberg, and R. Zacharski.
1993.
Cognitivestatus and the form of referring expressions in discourse.Language, 69(2):274?307.J.
A. Hawkins.
1978.
Definiteness and Indefiniteness.
CroomHelm, London.I.
Heim.
1982.
The Semantics of Definite and Indefinite NounPhrases.
Ph.D. thesis, Univ.
of Massachusetts at Amherst.R.
Henschel, H. Cheng, and M. Poesio.
2000.
Pronominaliza-tion revisited.
In Proc.
of 18th COLING.L.
Hirschman.
1998.
MUC-7 coreference task definition, ver-sion 3.0.
In N. Chinchor, editor, In Proc.
of the 7th MessageUnderstanding Conference.M.
Kameyama.
1998.
Intra-sentential centering.
In M. A.Walker, A. K. Joshi, and E. F. Prince, editors, CenteringTheory in Discourse, chapter 6, pages 89?112.
Oxford.H.
Kamp and U. Reyle.
1993.
From Discourse to Logic.
D.Reidel, Dordrecht.N.
Karamanis.
2003.
Entity coherence for descriptive textstructuring.
Ph.D. thesis, Edinburgh.P.
Kingsbury and M. Palmer.
2002.
From Treebank to Prop-Bank .
In Proc.
of LREC.G.
Link.
1983.
The logical analysis of plurals and mass terms:A lattice- theoretical approach.
In R. Ba?uerle, C. Schwarze,and A. von Stechow, editors, Meaning, Use and Interpreta-tion of Language, pages 302?323.
Walter de Gruyter.S.
Loebner.
1987.
Definites.
Journal of Semantics, 4:279?326.J.
Lyons.
1977.
Semantics.
Cambridge.D.
Marcu.
1999.
Instructions for manually annotating the dis-course structures of texts.
Unpublished manuscript.E.
Miltsakaki.
2002.
Towards an aposynthesis of topic conti-nuity and intrasentential anaphora.
Computational Linguis-tics, 28(3):319?355.J.
Oberlander, M. O?Donnell, A. Knott, and C. Mellish.
1998.Conversation in the museum.
New Review of Hypermediaand Multimedia, 4:11?32.R.
J. Passonneau.
1997.
Instructions for applying discoursereference annotation for multiple applications (DRAMA).Unpublished manuscript., December.J.
Pearson, R. Stevenson, and M. Poesio.
2000.
Pronoun reso-lution in complex sentences.
In Proc.
of AMLAP, Leiden.J.
Pearson, R. Stevenson, and M Poesio.
2001.
The effects ofanimacy, thematic role, and surface position on the focus-ing of entities in discourse.
In M. Poesio, editor, Proc.
ofSEMPRO-2001.
University of Edinburgh.M.
Poesio and M. Alexandrov-Kabadjov.
2004.
A general-purpose, off the shelf anaphoric resolver.
In Proc.
of LREC.M.
Poesio and B.
Di Eugenio.
2001.
Discourse structureand anaphoric accessibility.
In Ivana Kruijff-Korbayova?
andMark Steedman, editors, Proc.
of the ESSLLI 2001 Work-shop on Inf.
Structure, Disc.
Structure and Disc.
Semantics.M.
Poesio and M. Nissim.
2001.
Salience and possessive NPs:the effect of animacy and pronominalization.
In Proc.
ofAMLAP (Poster Session).M.
Poesio and N. Nygren-Modjeska.
To appear.
Focus, activa-tion, and this-noun phrases.
In A. Branco, R. McEnery, andR.
Mitkov, editors, Anaphora Processing.
John Benjamins.M.
Poesio and R. Vieira.
1998.
A corpus-based investiga-tion of definite description use.
Computational Linguistics,24(2):183?216, June.M.
Poesio, F. Bruneseaux, and L. Romary.
1999.
The MATEmeta-scheme for coreference in dialogues in multiple lan-guages.
In M. Walker, editor, Proc.
of the ACL Workshop onStandards and Tools for Discourse Tagging, pages 65?74.M.
Poesio, R. Mehta, A. Maroudas, and J. Hitzeman.
2004a.Learning to solve bridging references.
In Proc.
of the ACL.M.
Poesio, R. Stevenson, B.
Di Eugenio, and J. M. Hitzeman.2004b.
Centering: A parametric theory and its instantia-tions.
Computational Linguistics, 30(3).M.
Poesio.
2000a.
Annotating a corpus to develop and evaluatediscourse entity realization algorithms.
In Proc.
of the 2ndLREC, pages 211?218, Athens, May.M.
Poesio, 2000b.
The GNOME AnnotationManual, Fourth Edition.
Available fromhttp://www.hcrc.ed.ac.uk/ ?
gnome.M.
Poesio.
2003.
Associative descriptions and salience.
InProc.
of the EACL Workshop on Computational Treatmentsof Anaphora, Budapest.M.
Poesio.
2004a.
An empirical investigation of definiteness.In S. Kepser, editor, Proc.
of the International Conferenceon Linguistic Evidence, Tu?bingen, January.M.
Poesio.
2004b.
The MATE/GNOME scheme for anaphoricannotation, revisited.
In Proc.
of SIGDIAL, Boston, May.P.
H. Portner.
1992.
Situation Theory and the Semantics ofPropositional Expressions.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Mas-sachusetts at Amherst.M.
Prat-Sala and H. Branigan.
2000.
Discourse constraintson syntactic processing in language production.
Journal ofMemory and Language, 42(168?182).R.
Quirk and S. Greenbaum.
1973.
A University Grammar ofEnglish.
Longman.D.
Scott, R. Power, and R. Evans.
1998.
Generation as a solu-tion to its own problem.
In Proc.
of the 9th INLG.C.
L. Sidner.
1979.
Towards a computational theory of defi-nite anaphora comprehension in English discourse.
Ph.D.thesis, MIT.R.
J. Stevenson, R. A. Crawley, and D. Kleinman.
1994.
The-matic roles, focus, and the representation of events.
Lan-guage and Cognitive Processes, 9:519?548.M.
Strube and U. Hahn.
1999.
Functional centering?grounding referential coherence in information structure.Computational Linguistics, 25(3):309?344.K.
van Deemter and R. Kibble.
2000.
On coreferring: Coref-erence in MUC and related annotation schemes.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 26(4):629?637.
Squib.M.
A. Walker and E. Prince.
1996.
A bilateral approach togivenness.
In J. Gundel and T. Fretheim, editors, ReferenceAccessibility, pages 291?306.
John Benjamins.B.
L. Webber.
1979.
A Formal Approach to DiscourseAnaphora.
Garland, New York.
