Dependence Relationships between Gene Ontology Terms based on TIGRGene Product AnnotationsAnand KUMARIFOMIS, Faculty of Medicine,University of Leipzig,Haertelstrasse 16-18Leipzig, Germany, D-04107anand.kumar@ifomis.uni-leipzig.deURL:http://www.uni-leipzig.de/~akumar/Barry SMITH1,21IFOMIS, Faculty of Medicine,University of Leipzig,Haertelstrasse 16-18Leipzig, Germany, D-041072Department of Philosophy,SUNY at Buffalo,Buffalo, NY 14260, USAphismith@buffalo.eduURL:http://ontology.buffalo.edu/smith//Christian BORGELTDepartment of KnowledgeProcessing and LanguageEngineering, Otto-von-GuerickeUniversity of Magdeburg,Universit?tsplatz 2,Magdeburg, Germany, D-39106christian.borgelt@cs.uni-magdeburg.deURL:http://fuzzy.cs.uni-magdeburg.de/~borgelt/AbstractThe Gene Ontology is an important tool for therepresentation and processing of informationabout gene products and functions.
It providescontrolled vocabularies for the designations ofcellular components, molecular functions, andbiological processes used in the annotation ofgenes and gene products.
These constitutethree separate ontologies, of cellular com-ponents), molecular functions and biologicalprocesses, respectively.
The question weaddress here is: how are the terms in thesethree separate ontologies related to each other?We use statistical methods and formalontological principles as a first step towardsfinding answers to this question.1 Introduction(Zhu et al2004) noted that creating a model ofthe dynamics of molecular interaction networksoffers enormous potential for understandingsystems biology.
Existing work has led to thedevelopment of databases and ontologies whichprovide classifications and annotations based on agene product?s function, location, structure and soon, as for example in PANTHER (Thomas PD et al2003), a library of protein families and subfamiliesindexed by function, and the Gene OntologyAnnotation1 (GOA) (Camon et al2003).Further progress requires a robust formalontology of structures, locations, functions andprocesses, linked together via relations such asis_part_of, is_located_at, is_realized_by, and so1http://www.ebi.ac.uk/GOA/forth.
As a step along this road, we provide amethodology for deriving and representingassociation rules between the entities presentwithin the separate ontologies of the GeneOntology.2 (Gene Ontology Consortium, 2001).Such rules will be able to situate a biologicalprocess in relation to a cellular location to anagent.
They will be able to relate lower-granularitymolecular functions in relation to higher-granularity biological processes, and establishother sorts of relations between entities in differentparts of GO.A preliminary study in this area (Burgun et al2004) combines ontological, lexical and statisticalprinciples.
Their study provides association ruleson a selected set of 23 gene products that werepotentially involved in enterocyte differentiationand that showed similar levels of expression.
(Clelland and Oinn) provide commonly annotatedterms based on the CluSTr database (Kriventsevaet al2001), which has recently been incorporatedinto the QuickGO browser.3 Association rules havebeen used for mining gene expression data by(Creighton and Hanash 2003).
(Ogren et al2004)studied the compositional nature of the GO termsand described the dependencies among them.Our investigation draws on the fact that termsfrom GO?s separate ontologies are often used toannotation the same gene or gene product.
Wedraw on the TIGR database to establish thecorresponding patterns of association betweenterms in GO when taken in its entirety.In what follows we describe the results of thiswork We analysed all of TIGR?s 84,8332http://www.geneontology.org/3http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ego/CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology 31annotations, pertaining to the 41,502 distinct geneproducts present within GOA and focusing on theTIGR database within the February 2004 edition ofGO.
These associations were mined to establishassociation links between GO terms using standardstatistical database techniques based on the so-called apriori algorithm and using a part of speechtagger.
The discovered links  were then analysedon the basis of methods drawn from foundationalontology.2 Gene Ontology2.1 The Cellular Component OntologyGO?s cellular component (cc) vocabulary consistsof terms such as flagellum, chromosome, ferritin,extracellular matrix and virion.
This ontology isthe GO counterpart of anatomy within the medicalframework.
GO includes in this vocabulary boththe extracellular environment of cells and the cellsthemselves (that is, cell is subsumed in GO bycellular component).2.2 The Molecular Function OntologyGO?s  definition of molecular function (mf) is: ?theaction characteristic of a gene product.?
The mfvocabulary accordingly subsumes terms describingactions, for example: ice nucleation, binding, orprotein stabilization.2.3 The Biological Process OntologyA biological process (bp) is defined in GO as: ?Aphenomenon marked by changes that lead to aparticular result, mediated by one or more geneproducts?.
Terms in bp can be quite specific(glycolysis) or very general (death).
GO?s mf andbp terms are clearly closely interrelated.
Thebiological process of anti-apoptosis, for example,certainly involves the molecular function nowlabelled apoptosis inhibitor activity.
Suchmolecular functions should stand to biologicalprocesses in a part-of relation.
At the same time,however, GO?s authors insist that part-of holdsonly between entities within a single vocabulary,and they thus provide no guidance as to the cross-vocabulary relations between the terms.
Wepublished a series of papers pointing out these andsimilar problems in GO as currently constituted(Smith et al2004; Smith et al2003; Kumar andSmith 2004; Kumar and Smith 2003).3 TIGR database annotationsThe Institute for Genome Research (TIGR)'sGenome Projects are a collection of curateddatabases containing DNA and protein sequence,gene expression, cellular role, protein family, andtaxonomic data for microbes, plants and humans.
(http://www.tigr.org/) TIGR has manually curatedGO annotation for 6 bacterial genomes (V.cholerae, S. oneidensis, B. anthracis, G.sulfurreducens, P. syringae, and C. burnetii) andtwo eukaryotes (Arabidopsis thaliana, andTrypanosoma brucei).
In addition, automatedannotation has effected for Expressed SequenceTags from several species.The TIGR database is a rich source ofinformation about gene indices based on geneticsequence.
TGICL is a pipeline for the analysis oflarge Expressed Sequence Tags (EST) and mRNAdatabases in which the sequences are first clusteredon the basis of pairwise sequence similarity andthen assembled by individual clusters (Pertia et al2003).
Association rules between GO terms willenable us to determine the clusters of geneexpression functions and locations in a way thatwill add to the knowledge that is contained withinrepresentations of such clusters on the basis of thegene indices only.4 MethodsAssociations between GO terms were establishedon the basis of the annotations in the TIGRdatabases.4.1 Statistical approachAll the annotations from the TIGR databasepresent within GO?s association table wereselected and placed into a separate table GO termswere then separated into three separate tables,depending on which of the three GO vocabulariesthey belong to.Those GO terms which belong to two differentontologies within GO but are annotated to the samegene products were then separated out for analysis.Three new tables were then created containingthose annotations where cc and mf terms, mf andbp terms, and cc and bp terms are annotatedtogether.The distinct term tuples present were groupedtogether and their count was used to provide ameasure for weighting an association ?
which is tosay how many times two GO terms from twodistinct axes are annotated together (Table 1).
Theco-occurrence of terms within the annotations werethen combined together (Table 2).		 CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology32Table 1.
Associations between terms belongingto cc and mf, together with an index of how manytimes such associations occur within the annotation			!Table 2.
Associations between terms belongingall three of GO?s ontologies with an index of howmany times such associations occur within theannotationGO?s hierarchy has thus far not been considered.Rather we have focused only on the termsthemselves to which the annotations are made.
Foreach GO term used for annotation and for eachsubsuming term in GO?s is_a hierarchy, we canestablish the distance of the former from the latter.
(Resnik 1995) has pointed out that the semanticsimilarity of terms as one traverses the hierarchicaltree reduces by a factor of log(p(c)) where p(c) isthe probability of finding a child for the term whenseeking information.
Table 3 thus represents aquantification of this semantic similarity, whichcan be used to extend the results presented here byusing an approach similar to that advanced in(Azuahe and Bodenreider, 2004). 		 "		#$Table 3.
Associations between GO termsbelonging to cc and mf taking hierarchy intoconsideration4.2 Association rule inductionAssociation rule induction was originallydeveloped for so-called market basket analysis,which aims at finding regularities in the shoppingbehaviour of customers of supermarkets, mail-order companies, online stores etc.
(Borgelt andKruse, 2002) Association rules are designed tohelp in isolating those sets of products that arefrequently bought together.
This information isexpressed in the form of rules like "A customerwho buys bread and wine is likely to buy cheesealso.
"Algorithms for inducing association rules from aset of transactions (the market baskets or shoppingcarts bought by customers) usually work in twosteps: First, the so-called frequent item sets aredetermined by searching the subset lattice of allitems.
For this search there are, in principle, twoapproaches: the breadth first search, as employedby the apriori algorithm (Agrawal et al 1994), andthe depth first search, on which the eclat algorithm(Zaki et al 1997) is based.
Second, rules areconstructed from the frequent item sets and filteredwith respect to  some quality criterion.In the GO context, we use association ruleinduction to discover links between the ontologiesin which a gene product is described.
That is, weare interested in rules that predict cc from mf orbp, or rules that describe which mfs in which ccsconstitute a bp, and so forth.4.2.1 Assessment of association rulesThe number of combinatorially possible ruleshere is very high.
Consequently we need criteria toassess and thus to filter out those association ruleswhich are of serious importance.
The standardmeasures for this purpose are the support and theconfidence of a rule.The support of an association rule can be definedin two different ways: as the fraction of alltransactions to which the rule is applicable (that is,which contain all items in the antecedent of therule) or the fraction of all transactions for whichthe rule is correct (that is, which contain all itemsappearing in the rule, regardless of whether inantecedent or consequent).
We take the secondapproach.The confidence of an association rule is thefraction of cases in which it is correct relative tothose in which it is applicable, that is, the ratio ofthe number of transactions that contain all items inthe rule to the number of transactions that containall items in the antecendent.A user controls the search for association rulesby providing minimum values for support andconfidence of the rules to be found.
From thesevalues there can be derived a pruning criterion forthe search for frequent item sets in the subsetlattice as well as filtering criteria for the rulesthemselves.
Only rules that meet both criteria arereported.
More intuitively: we are looking forassociation rules that can be applied often (areabove some minimum level of support) and thatmake reliable predictions (are above someminimum level of confidence).4.2.2 Application to Gene OntologyIn our application of association rule inductionto the analysis of GO we viewed each gene productannotated to a GO term as a transaction.
We thushave as many transactions as there are geneproducts in the data set.
We then looked forfrequent co-occurrences of terms within suchCompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology 33transactions and reported them in the form ofassociation rules.
For the search itself we used awell-known implementation of the apriorialgorithm by (Borgelt and Kruse 2002).In addition to filtering based on minimumsupport and minimum confidence, we alsointroduced one further selection criterion byrequiring that the consequent of a rule must comefrom a different GO ontology than the terms in theantecedent of the rule, since rules containing onlyterms from one ontology are likely to recover onlythe term hierarchy of that ontology, which is notwhat is needed here.
Such filtering can be achievedwith the apriori implementation we used via thespecification of which part of an association rulean item may appear in.4.3 Experimental resultsWe ran the apriori program three times, each timerestricting the consequent of the rules to a differentontology.
This was required as GO has threeorthogonal ontologies and one needed to treat eachof them as an antecedent and a consequent withone another.
Examples of rules we found are:membrane [cc] oligopeptide transport [bp];transporter activity [mf](0.106%/44, 100.0%)binding [mf] mitochondrial transport [bp];mitochondrial inner membrane [cc](0.106%/44, 100.0%)protein biosynthesis [bp] ribosome [cc];structural constituent of ribosome [mf](0.504%/209, 90.4%)The two letters in brackets after each term denotethe axis the term comes from.
The numbers inparentheses at the end of each rule describe thequality of the rule as (S%/A, C%), where S is thesupport of the rule as a percentage of geneproducts to which the rule is applicable, A is theabsolute number of gene products to which it isapplicable (which is designed to complement theinformation regarding support), and C is theconfidence of the rule.In the GO context S is the percentage of geneproduct IDs to which the relevant rule is applicable(i.e., the percentage of gene product IDs which areannotated with all the terms in the antecedent inthe rule), A is the absolute number of gene productIDs to which the rule is applicable, and C is thepercentage of gene product IDs for which the rulemakes the correct prediction relative to those towhich the rule is applicable.
Thus for example:ribosome [cc] ribosome biogenesis [bp];protein biosynthesis [mf](0.212%/88, 93.2%)tells us that 88 gene product IDs (~0.2%) areannotated with the terms ribosome biogenesis andprotein biosynthesis, of which 93.2% (i.e.
82) arealso annotated with the term ribosome.4.4 Dependencies based on Part-of-speechTagging:The terms within GO were tagged with a part-of-speech tagger Qtag4 (Mason, 2004) in order tounderstand the linguistic dependencies between theterms (for example, between adjective and noun orbetween adverb and verb).We tagged all the GO terms and also theirdefinitions.
The definition tags supplement the GOterm tags since definitions are more elaborate andthe specificity of the tagger also increases when itdeals with complete sentences rather than with thecollections of words by which GO terms areconstituted.Among the terms, we find 1813 adjectives, 29adverbs, 2808 nouns, 11 prepositions and 57 verbs.Among the term definitions, we found 3460adjectives, 252 adverbs, 4837 nouns, 21prepositions and 595 verbs.
The lowest specificityis found for chemical names.Unfortunately very few of the interesting part-of-speech generated dependencies can be captured onthe basis of an analysis of GO terms alone.
This isbecause there are very few cases of suchdependencies where both terms involved arepresent within GO.
Examples are: heme transportand heme transporter activity or growth andinvasive growth.
In many other cases, however, wehave complex GO terms whose constituents are notthemselves present in GO.
Thus photoreactiverepair is present, but not repair or photoreaction.Hypersensitive response is present but notresponse and hypersensitivity.
Terms like during,within and without play an important role in GO?scompositional structure, but they are notthemselves present within GO.
(For moreexamples see (Smith et al 2004).)
To rectify thisdefect and to make the corresponding informationaccessible to software applications ways must befound to link GO to third-party ontologies in whichthe corresponding constituent terms are themselvessubjected to formal treatment.4http://web.bham.ac.uk/O.Mason/software/tagger/CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology34Our statistical approach, apriori-generatedassociation rules and lexical tagging yielded arange of different sorts of associations, for examplebetween a location and a process, a process and afunction, a function and another function, a processand another process, an agent and a function and soon.
One needs a formal ontology, too, in order toexpress those relations within a single frameworkand thus to create a robust representation schemethat can serve as the basis for automated reasoning.5 Basic Formal OntologyTo do full justice to the information content ofGO and to the rules we isolated requires a formalontological scheme which encompasses bothcontinuants and endurants, and both processes andfunctions, and which further has the facility to dealwith entities found on different levels ofgranularity (here on the molecular, cellular, andwhole-organism levels).
Basic FoundationalOntology (BFO) is a framework of this type, theessentials of which can be summarized as follows.BFO consists of two complementary ontologies,called SNAP (a snapshot ontology of continuantentities existing at a time) and SPAN (a four-dimensional ontology of processes unfoldingthemselves through time.
(Smith and Grenon,forthcoming)The entities recognized by SNAP ontologieshave continuous existence in time, preserve theiridentity through change and exist in toto at everymoment at which they exist at all.
They include:independent SNAP entities (substances and theiraggregates, parts, and boundaries), and dependentSNAP entities such as qualities, roles, conditions,functions, dispositions, powers, etc.SPAN entities, in contrast, have temporal partswhich means that they unfold themselves insuccessive phases and can be segmented viasegmentation of the temporal intervals which theyoccupy.
SPAN entities include processes in thenarrow sense, as well as the instantaneous temporalboundaries of processes, the temporal extents ofprocesses, and so on.5.1 Formal-Ontological RelationsFormal relations are those types of relationswhich can traverse the SNAP-SPAN divide; thusthey are relations which glue SNAP and SPANentities together.A number of parameters can then be used in theconstruction of sub-ontologies within the widerBFO framework:?
the ontologies from which the relata derive,expressed as an ordered list, called the signature ofthe relation?
the directionality of the relationThe principal signatures in the binary case are asfollows:?
<SNAP, SNAP>?
<SPAN, SPAN>?
<SNAP, SPAN>?
<SPAN, SNAP>The first two signatures comprehend relationsbetween ontologies with different domains orgranularities.
The latter comprehend the relationsof realization and participation for examplebetween a function and the process which is itsfunctioning, or between an activity and its agent.Below, we present various relations which canexist between entities in GO and which were foundon the basis of our analysis of the TIGR database.Some of the relations require extending theassociation rules to include those entities which areabsent within GO but included within itscompositional structure along the lines describedabove.5.1.1 Relations with Signature <SNAP, SNAP>and <SPAN, SPAN>Transgranular Part-Whole Relations: Therelations crossing ontologies of different levels ofgranularity are pre-eminently relations of part andwhole.
The <SNAP, SNAP> relations betweenindependent SNAP entities are already presentwithin GO.
Example: nuclear inclusion body part-of nucleus.Our association rules uncovered transgranularpart-whole relations between dependent SNAPentities.
For example: transposase activity  DNAtransposition  (1.2%/505, 91.5%).
Unlike BFOhowever GO does not clearly distinguish betweenfunctions and processes; hence the above exampleshould be interpreted as involving both atransgranular relation between SNAP dependententities:transposase function DNA transposition functionand a transgranular relation between SPANentities:transposase activity DNA transposition functionThis does justice to the fact that DNA transpositionactivity consists of various activities as its parts, ofwhich is transposase activity.5.1.2 Relations with Signature <SNAPIndependent, SPAN>Participation: The relation of participation, forexample of a runner in a race, is a species ofdependence.
There are different kinds ofparticipation, which we can order along thefollowing dimensions:CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology 35Figure 1.
Modes of ParticipationPerpetration: A substance perpetrates an action(direct and agentive participation in a process).Initiation: A substance initiates a process.Example:.electron transport  electron transporteractivity  (0.3%/137, 96.4%)needs to be extended (by drawing on those termswhich form part of GO?s compositional structurebut are not themselves included in GO ) by:electron transport  electron transporterPerpetuation: A substance sustains a process.Perpetuation normally presupposes that at someearlier time an entity entered into the relation ofinitiation with the process in question.
However,perpetuators are of course not by necessitythemselves initiators.
Example,proteolysis and peptidolysis  subtilase activity(0.2%/63, 96.8%),which again needs to be extended by:proteolysis and peptidolysis  subtilaseTermination: A substance terminates a process(for example an operator terminates the projectionof a film).
Termination normally presupposes thatthere has obtained in the immediately prior intervalof time a relation of perpetuation.
Processes cannotpass from initiation to termination instantaneously.Example:	%In the above example, the association betweencarbon-monoxide oxygenase and electron transportare that of termination.
There is an additionalassociation to the location of this process in themitochondrial membranes.Facilitation: A substance plays a secondary role ina process.
Example:protein biosynthesis  large ribosomal subunit(0.1%/56, 98.2%)Hindrance, prevention: A substance has anegative effect on the unfolding of a process.Example:DNA transposition  transposase activity(1.2%/505, 91.5%).While transposase initiates DNA transposition, italso causes an auto-inhibition later.Mediation: A substance plays an indirect role inthe unfolding of a process relating otherparticipants.
Example:		%&In this relationship, formate dehydrogenase playsthe role of a mediator of electron transport.Patiency: A substance is being acted on by aprocess.
Example:In this relationship, provirus is being integrated bythe process of provirus integration.5.1.3 Relations with Signature <SNAPDependent, SPAN>Realization: There are three main modes ofrealization, which result by applying thedistinctions dealt with in 5.1.2 (initiation,termination and persistence) but substituting?function?
for ?activity?.Initiation: electron transport  electrontransporter functionTermination.
electron transport  carbon-monoxide oxygenase function5.1.4 Relations with Signature <SPAN, SNAP>Relations between Processes and SubstancesCreation: A process brings into being a substance.Example:CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology36	#'$%(As in the previous cases, this association can beextended to:steroid  3(or17)beta-hydroxysteroiddehydrogenase activitySustaining in being: A process sustains in being asubstance.	 )*+The protease inhibitor activity maintains themembrane structure.
Further work needs to bedone to understand the granularity of suchrelations.Degradation: A process has negative effects upona substance.
Example:%%	(This relation associates a lyase activity with thedegradation of D-amino-acid dehydrogenasecomplex.5.1.5 Spatiotemporal projectionTemporal Projection.
Processes are directlyprojectible onto the axis of time.
And a substanceis indirectly projectible onto a period of timethrough the mediation of a process in which it isinvolved.
Examples:, -%.%./%0%.%.#$0%.0While we cannot infer such projections directlyfrom a single association rule, we can get a roughapproximation if we consider more than one ruletogether.Spatial Projection.
Processes are projectible alsoonto the SPAN spatiotemporal regions in whichthey occur, as also onto the (SNAP) spatial regionswhere they start and end.
Examples:membrane  oligopeptide transport;transporter activity  (0.1%/44, 100.0%)ribosome  ribosome biogenesis; proteinbiosynthesis  (0.2%/88, 93.2%)6 DiscussionThe association rules yielded by ourmethodology are only the beginning of a process ofdeciphering the ontological relations across variousgranularities within the extended GO framework.We need to formally analyse all the rules in orderto understand how best they fit within formalontology and how they can be put together tocreate larger ontologies within systems biology.In validating  these associations one method is toconsider those associations which have beendetected on the basis of the annotations presentwithin GO coming from other source databases.Clearly if a rule obtains across a plurality ofdatabases then the corresponding association willbe stronger.
One disadvantage of this method,however, is that annotations of gene products fromdifferent databases to GO are not uniform and sothe results cannot be relied upon beyond a certainlimit of accuracy.
Various other aspects ofannotations, for instance, the species underinvestigation or the pertinent strength of evidencewill need to be considered.A further extension of the work will be to predict?unknown?
entities.
A large number of annotationsis made to the three GO terms cellular componentunknown, molecular function unknown andbiological process unknown.
In those caseswherethere we have association rules without suchunknown terms but otherwise relating to the sameentities, it could be that the relevant unknownentity will be able to be predicted.
This can bedone with annotations from a single databasesource or by putting together annotations frommultiple sources.
We need to do further work inthis area.
For example, in the following example,we can establish that in the case where mf is GTPbinding and cc is membrane, the known bf is eitherpathogenesis or sporulation (sensu Bacteria) orprotein secretion of metabolism.
Thus it isprobable that the unknown process herecorresponds to one or other of these alternatives.CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology 37.	,	 1	#,$1	  1	 	1	 2!)17 AcknowledgementsWork on this paper was carried out under theauspices of the Wolfgang Paul Program of theHumboldt Foundation and also of the EU Networkof Excellence in Semantic Datamining and theproject "Forms of Life" sponsored by theVolkswagen Foundation.ReferencesAgrawal R, Srikant R. Fast algorithms for miningassociation rules in large databases .
ProcInternational Conference on Very LargeDatabases, Santiage, Chile, (Morgan Kaufmann,1994) 478-499.Azuaje FJ, Bodenreider O. IncorporatingOntology-Driven Similarity Knowledge intoFunctional Genomics: An Exploratory Study.Proc IEEE Fourth Symposium on Bioinformaticsand Bioengineering 2004.
(In press)Borgelt C, Kruse R. Induction of AssociationRules: Apriori Implementation.
in: 15thConference on Computational Statistics(Compstat 2002, Berlin, Germany) PhysicaVerlag, Heidelberg, Germany 2002Burgun A, Bodenreider O, Aubry M, Mosser J.Dependence Relations in Gene Ontology: APreliminary Study.
Gene Ontology Workshop,Leipzig, May 2004.Camon E, Magrane M, Barrell D, Lee V, DimmerE, Maslen J, Binns D, Harte N, Lopez R,Apweiler R. The Gene Ontology Annotation(GOA) Database: sharing knowledge in Uniprotwith Gene Ontology.
Nucleic Acids Res.
2004Jan 1;32 Database issue:D262-6.Clelland S, Oinn T. Comparing protein structureand function: mapping CluSTr into GO andanalysis of the results.http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ego/project.pdf?&format=simpleCreighton C, Hanash S. Mining gene expressiondatabases for association rules.
Bioinformatics.2003 Jan;19(1):79-86.Gene Ontology Consortium.
Creating the GeneOntology.
Genome Res.
2001.
11: 1425-1433.Kriventseva, E. V., Fleischmann, W., Zdobnov, E.M., Apweiler, R. (2001).
CluSTr: a database ofclusters of SWISS-PROT+TrEMBL proteins.Nucleic Acids Res 29: 33-36Kumar A, Smith B.
Towards a ProteomicsMetaclassification.
Proc IEEE FourthSymposium on Bioinformatics andBioengineering 2004.
(In press)Kumar A, Smith B.
The Universal MedicalLanguage System and the Gene Ontology: SomeCritical Reflections.
Lecture Notes in ComputerScience.
2003 Sep; 2821/2003: 135 ?
148.Mason, O.
Automatic Processing of LocalGrammar Patterns.
Proceedings of the 7thAnnual Colloquium for the UK Special InterestGroup for Computational Linguistics, Universityof Birmingham, 6-7th January 2004, p.166-171.Ogren PV, Cohen KB, Acquaah-Mensah GK,Eberlein J, Hunter L. The CompositionalStructure of Gene Ontology Terms.
PacificSymposium on Biocomputing 2004;9:214-225Pertea G, Huang X, Liang F, Antonescu V, SultanaR, Karamycheva S, Lee Y, White J, Cheung F,Parvizi B, Tsai J, Quackenbush J. TIGR GeneIndices clustering tools (TGICL): a softwaresystem for fast clustering of large EST datasets.Bioinformatics.
2003 Mar 22;19(5):651-2.Resnik P. ?Using information content to evaluatesemantic similarity in a taxonomy?, in Proc.
ofthe 14th International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Montreal, pp.
448-453,1995.Smith B and Grenon P. The Cornucopia of FormalRelations, forthcoming in DIALECTASmith B, Koehler J, Kumar A.
On the Applicationof Formal Principles to Life Science Data: ACase Study in the Gene Ontology.
in: Proc DILS2004.
(Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics Nr.
2994)Smith, B., Williams, J., Schulze-Kremer, S.: TheOntology of the Gene Ontology.
In: Proc.Annual Symposium of the American MedicalInformatics Association (2003) 609-613Thomas PD, Campbell MJ, Kejariwal A, Mi H,Karlak B, Daverman R, Diemer K, MuruganujanA, Narechania A. PANTHER: a library ofprotein families and subfamilies indexed byfunction.
Genome Res.
2003 Sep;13(9):2129-41.Zhu H, Huang S, Dhar P. The next step in systemsbiology: simulating the temporospatial dynamicsof molecular network.
Bioessays.
2004Jan;26(1):68-72.CompuTerm 2004  -  3rd International Workshop on Computational Terminology38
