Acknowledgmeare ubiquitousrarer in humainterface factorsence?
Using aface that responcompared subjewhen the interfthat seen whenspeech.
Contrardrop in the numedgments: subjrecorded-voicelimited interfacefor both MexEnglish versions1 IntroductionIn previous studieacknowledgments anwith a simple spokethe interface does noand Heeman, 2000;ment interviews conthe subjects (11 in tthe Spanish) had thoto use acknowledgmhuman-like voice.
Insis: we examined thprompts from syntheThe term ?ackSchaefer (1989), whby which one concontribution has beethe conversation toappear in English asAcknowledgments, aAcknowAbstractnts, e.g., ?yeah?
and ?uh-huh,?in human conversation but aren-computer interaction.
Whatmight contribute to this differ-simple spoken-language inter-ded to acknowledgments, wects?
use of acknowledgmentsace used recorded speech withthe interface used synthesizedy to our hypothesis, we saw abers of subjects using acknowl-ects appeared to interpret theinterface as signalling a more.
These results were consistentican Spanish and Americanof the interface.s, we showed that subjects used politeness words when interactingn-language application even whent offer such behaviors itself (WardWard et al, 2003).
In post-experi-ducted as part of that study, 50% ofhe English-language condition, 9 inught that they might be more likelyents if the interface had a moreresearchers (e.g., Chu-Carroll and Brown, 1997), are oneof several meta-dialogue behaviors that people use tocontrol the flow of conversation.Meta-dialogue behaviors such as acknowledgmentare of interest because of their role in managing turn-tak-ing: although acknowledgments may preface a new con-tribution by the same speaker (Novick and Sutton,1994), often they occur alone as a single-phrase turn thatappears to serve the purpose of explicitly declining anopportunity to take a turn (Sacks et al, 1974).
Ifacknowledgment behavior is incorporated in spoken-lan-guage systems, it may offer a more fluid and adaptablemeans of managing turn-taking and pacing in human-computer interaction.Although some research systems incorporateacknowledgments (e.g., Aist, 1998; Iwase and Ward,1998; Okato et al, 1998), real-world spoken-languageinterfaces generally don?t allow acknowledgments toserve their turn-taking purpose.
Turn-taking is com-pletely controlled by one conversant, usually the system.To reduce errors, designers of spoken-language systemscreate prompts that guide the user toward short, focused,in-vocabulary responses (e.g., Basson et al, 1996; Coleet al, 1997).
In many systems, the use of barge-indefeats the common interpretation of an acknowledg-ment: if the user speaks, the system quits speaking andbegins interpreting the user utterance.
If the userintended to signal that the system should continue, theeffect is exactly the opposite of the one intended.
Thus,current design practices both discourage and rendermeaningless the standard uses of acknowledgments.ledgment Use with Synthesized and Recorded PromptsKaren Ward, Tasha Hollingsed, Javier A. Aldaz SalmonThe University of Texas at El PasoEl Paso, Texas USA 79968{kward,tasha,jaldaz}@cs.utep.eduthis study, we tested that hypothe-e effect of changing the interfacesized speech to recorded speech.nowledgment?
is from Clark ando describe a hierarchy of methodsversant may signal that another?sn understood well enough to allowproceed.
Acknowledgments often?uh-huh?
and in Spanish as ?aj?.
?lso called ?back-channels?
by some2 ExperimentThe study design, described below, is identical to thatused in our baseline study (Ward et al, 2003) except thatthe interface prompts and messages were delivered usingrecorded human voices instead of synthesized voice.These studies were conducted in both American Englishand Mexican Spanish.2.1 MethodWe did not want to eto use acknowledgmnothing about theircreate a situation into use acknowledgmtage from doing sooptional.
Conversanments and repetitionmation is being tranmaking an error maycontext may serve astanding and of conFurthermore, therements offered durinduring face-to-face1993).
We thereforeis asked to make wrverbally over the teleWe selected theE-mail.
Subjects wewould read E-mail mand that their task witems of informatio?How do you get toincluded both ?intercopied and ?uninterethat subjects wouldesting?
material mormotivate subjects toinformation was presThe E-mail wasresponding to a longby a pause of aboutresponse time, uncotion, so we hoped thage the subjects to tpace of the interactisystem would continsegment.
Subjects cedging the contributithe system to continusystem signalled theby asking the subjecon?
or ?Estas listopause.
This promptpause in which the shoped to suggest tothe wait time withouOn the surface,system behavior betto move the systemtinue?)
and the usexplicitly instruct or require subjectsent behavior, as that would tell uspreferences.
Instead, we wanted towhich subjects would have a reasonents, perhaps even gain an advan-, while still keeping the behaviorts are likely to offer acknowledg-s when complex or important infor-scribed, especially when the cost ofbe high.
Acknowledgments in thisdual purpose of conveying under-trolling the pace of the interaction.may be more verbal acknowledg-g telephone-based interaction thaninteraction (Cohen and Oviatt,designed a task in which the subjectitten notes of information presentedphone.domain of a telephone interface tore told that the computer systemessages to them over the telephoneas to locate and transcribe particularn contained in the messages, e.g.,the coffee house??
The messagesesting?
information that was to besting?
information that was not, sowant to move through the ?uninter-e quickly.
In this way we hoped totry to control the pace at whichented.presented in segments roughly cor-phrase, with each segment followedfive seconds.
Five seconds is a longmfortably so for human conversa-at this lengthy pause would encour-ake the initiative in controlling theon.
If the subject said nothing, theue by presenting the next messageould reduce this delay by acknowl-on, e.g., ?okay,?
or by commandinge, e.g., ?go on?
or ?continuar.?
Thepossibility of controlling the delayt the question ?Are you ready to go(a) para continuar?
after the firsting was repeated for every thirdubject said nothing.
In this way wethe subjects that they could controlt explicitly telling them to do so.there is no functional difference inween a subject?s use of a commandonward (e.g., ?go on,?
?next,?
?con-of an acknowledgment.
In eithercase, the system responds by presenting the next mes-sage segment, and in fact it eventually presents the nextsegment even if the subject says nothing at all.
Thus, thedesign allows the subject to choose freely betweenaccepting the system?s pace, or commanding the systemto continue, or acknowledging the presentations in afashion more typical of human conversation.
In this way,we hoped to understand how the subject preferred tointeract with the computer.Subjects were told that the study?s purpose was toassess the understandability and usability of the inter-face, and that their task was to find the answers to a listof questions.
They were given no instructions in the useof the program beyond the information that they were totalk to it using normal, everyday speech.We tested a total of 40 subjects, balanced for genderand language.
Subjects were solicited from the Univer-sity of Texas at El Paso campus.
They ranged in agefrom 18 to 65, with most being between 20 and 25.
Eachsubject was paid $10.00 for participating in the study.We used a Wizard of Oz protocol as a way to allowthe system to respond to acknowledgments and to pro-vide robustness in handling repetitions.
The wizard?sinterface was constructed using the Rapid ApplicationDeveloper in the Center for Spoken Language Under-standing Toolkit (Sutton et al, 1998).
A simple buttonpanel allowed the wizard to select the appropriateresponse from the actions supported by the application.The application functionality was limited to suggest real-istic abilities for a current spoken-language interface.The subject could request a message by message num-ber, for example, but not by content or sender.The interface prompts and messages were presentedusing recorded human voices.
The message texts werepresented in a male voice, and the control portions of theinterface were in a female voice.
It was hoped that thetwo voices would help the subjects determine the state ofthe interface: delivering message text vs. controlling theinterface functions.2.2 MeasuresIn comparing the strategies used to control the length ofthe pauses (acknowledgment or command use or none),the dependent variable was the number of times eachstrategy was used to control the pacing of the interface.The total number of turns varied between subjectsbecause some subjects listened to each message onlyonce while others went through messages multipletimes.
We therefore normalized the counts by dividingthe number of times each strategy was used by the num-ber of turns where the subject had had an choice of strat-egies.
We considered the possibility that subjects whocompleted the task in only one pass though the messagesmight show a preference for a different strategy thanthose who requiredsages, thus creatingpreliminary analysiswe did not considerThe determinatiance constituted an abased primarily onthis approach is conedgment, e.g., (Chu-ately following asegment of an E-ma?uh-huh,?
?aj?,?
andof the system informPhrases such as ?goor ?siguiente?
follocommands.
The intepost-experiment inteabout their word chtions of the subject uperson for accuracy.Some subjects (tion and eight in thebined acknowledgmutterance, e.g., ?okaythe first part of theanalysis as an acknothe first part, then itsubjects did this onSpanish-language coEnglish-language coproduced as many asA post-experimdetermine each subjeeral of the questionsmodel (Walker etexplained the trueanswered subjects?
qand the experimenterhad realized that thinstead of a comexcluded from the stdency for people tothat they are speakinputer (e.g., Brennan,3 ResultsWe hypothesized tedgment behaviors tof the interface thanversion.
We expecteSpanish and Englishand male speakers.expectations.multiple passes through the mes-a bias in the normalized statistic.
Ashowed no significant difference, sothis possibility further.on as to whether a particular utter-cknowledgment or a command wasword choice and dialogue context;sistent with definitions of acknowl-Carroll and Brown, 1997).
Immedi-system inform (presentation of ail message), the words ?yes,?
?s?,??okay?
or a repetition of part or allwere considered acknowledgments.on,?
?continue,?
?next,?
?continuar,?wing an inform were consideredrpretation was confirmed during therview by questioning the subjectsoice.Transcriptions and categoriza-tterances were checked by a secondone in the Spanish-language condi-English-language condition) com-ents and commands in a single, go on.?
If an acknowledgment wasphrase, then it was included in thewledgment and if a command waswas included as a command.
Mostly once (the single subject in thendition and three of the eight in thendition), and one speaker (English)six combined-type responses.ent interview was conducted toct?s impression of the system.
Sev-were drawn from the PARADISEal.
2000).
The experimenter alsopurpose of the experiment anduestions.
This interview was tapedtook notes.
Data from subjects whoey were interacting with a humanpletely-automated system wereudy because of the well-verified ten-speak differently when they believeg with a human instead of a com-1991).hat subjects would use acknowl-o control the recorded-voice versionthey did with the synthesized-voiced this increase to be seen in bothconditions and across both femaleThe results were contrary to ourWhen interacting with the recorded-voice interface,commands and acknowledgments were preferred as astrategy by 15% and 17.5%, respectively, of all subjects.This result was not significantly different than that seenin the synthesized-voice study, as confirmed by the Wil-coxen-Mann-Whitney test (z = -0.5041, p= 0.0139 forcommands, z = 1.686, p= 0.0465 for acknowledgments).Contrary to our expectations, the numbers of sub-jects using either acknowledgments and commands actu-ally dropped.
This was due to the fact that the numbersof subjects who used waiting as their sole strategy rosesharply, from 9 subjects in the synthesized-voice studyto 19 in the recorded-voice study ( , p<0.001).Forty percent of the subjects used a command atleast once, and 45% used an acknowledgement at leastonce.
Seven subjects seemed comfortable with bothcommands and acknowledgments, using at least fiveexamples of each.
When acknowledgments were used,the most common word choice was ?okay?
(both lan-guages).
When commands were used, the most commonword choices were ?go on?
in English, and ?continuar?in Spanish.We found no significant difference between therecorded and synthesized-voice conditions when com-paring male and female speakers nor when comparingEnglish and Spanish speakers.Politeness behaviors were common.
These includedthe use of the phrases ?thank you?
or ?gracias?
and?please?
or ?por favor?
as well as a responding ?good-bye?
or ?adi?s?
to the system.
Many subjects (7 Spanish-language and 8 English-language, 37.5% total) used apoliteness behavior at least once and a few subjects (1Spanish-language and 5 English-language, 15% total)used them more than once.
One English-speaking femaleused politeness behaviors with almost half of her interac-tions with the system.
One subject, when asked in thepost-experiment interview why he chose to use thisbehavior, responded ?I don?t know, it?s just habit Iguess.?
Three other subjects made similar statements.We believe, and some subjects confirmed, that somesubjects in the recorded version assumed that they werelistening to recordings similar to voice-mail messages ontheir telephones.
They believed that the pauses were partof the message and so did not realize that the system wasawaiting their response.4 ConclusionsWe compared subjects?
use of various strategies for con-trolling the pacing of information presentation in a sim-ple spoken-language interface using synthetic speechwith one using recorded speech.
We had hypothesizedthat subjects would offer more acknowledgments in therecorded-voice condition.
In fact, we saw no differences?2 14.34=in the numbers of spreferred strategy.
Wthe number of subjethe pacing of informclude that, in this casface misled subjeccapability based on ting technology.
In fricher domain that wtion, one in which thties to signal its interAcknowledgmenThis work was paMicrosoft CorporatFoundation?s ModelEEC 9550502.
The atian Servin, Tyler Stheir assistance withmous reviewers fortions.ReferencesGregory Aist.
1998.versational ArchContent-DrivenICSLP 98 FifthLanguage ProceSara Basson, StephLeung, Ed Manvir Singh, and Sand Compliancenications ApplicFourth Internatguage ProcessinSusan E. BrennanThrough CompAdapted InteracJennifer Chu-Carro?Tracking Initiaactions,?
in Procof the Associat262-270.Herbert H. Clark antributing to Disc294.Ron A. Cole, DavStephen SuttonJacques de Villieubjects using acknowledgment as ae also saw a significant increase incts who made no attempt to controlation presentation at all.
We con-e, use of a human voice in the inter-ts into assuming a more limitedheir previous experience with exist-uture work, we plan to move to aill support a more complex interac-e system will have more opportuni-active capabilities to the user.tsrtially supported by a gift fromion and by the National ScienceInstitutions for Excellence Initiativeuthors thank David Herrera, Chris-mith, and Pauline Williamson forthe study.
We also thank the anony-their helpful comments and sugges-?Expanding a Time-Sensitive Con-itecture for Turn-Taking to HandleInterruption,?
in Proceedings ofInternational Conference on Spokenssing, 413-417.en Springer, Cynthia Fong, Hong, Michele Olson, John Pitrelli, Ran-uk Wong.
1996.
?User Participationin Speech Automated Telecommu-ations,?
in Proceedings of ICSLP 96ional Conference on Spoken Lan-g, 1676-1679.. 1991.
?Conversation With anduters,?
User Modeling and User-tion, 1:67-86.ll and Michael K. Brown.
1997.tive in Collaborative Dialogue Inter-eedings of the 35th Annual Meetingion for Computational Linguistics,d Edward F. Schaefer.
1989.
?Con-ourse,?
Cognitive Science, 13:259-id G. Novick, P.J.E.
Vermeulen,, Mark Fanty, L.F.A.
Wessels,rs, J. Schalkwyk, Brian Hansen andD.
Burnett.
1997.
?Experiments with a Spoken Dia-logue System for Taking the U.S. Census,?
SpeechCommunications, Vol.
23.Phillip Cohen and Sharon Oviatt.
1994.
?The role ofvoice in human-machine communication,?
VoiceCommunication between Humans and Machines(ed.
by D. Roe and J. Wilpon), National Academy ofSciences Press, Washington, D. C., Ch.
3, 34-75.Tatsuya Iwase and Nigel Ward.
1998.
?Pacing SpokenDirections to Suit the Listener,?
in Proceedings ofICSLP 98 Fifth International Conference on SpokenLanguage Processing, Vol.
4, 1203-1207.David G. Novick and Stephen Sutton.
1994.
?An Empiri-cal Model of Acknowledgment for Spoken-Lan-guage Systems,?
in Proceedings of the 32nd AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, 96-101.Y.
Okato, K. Kato, M. Yamamoto and S. Itahashi.
1998.?System-User Interaction and Response Strategy inSpoken Dialogue System,?
in Proceedings of ICSLP98 Fifth International Conference on Spoken Lan-guage Processing, Vol.
2, 495-498.H.
Sacks, E. Schegloff and G. Jefferson.
1974.
?A Sim-plest Systematics for the Organization of Turn-Tak-ing in Conversation,?
Language, 50:696-735.Stephen Sutton, Ron Cole, Jacques de Villiers, J. Schalk-wyk, P. Vermeulen, M. Macon, Y. Yan, E.Kaiser, B.Rundle, K. Shobaki, P. Hosom, A. Kain, J. Wouters,D.
Massaro and M. Cohen.
1998.?Universal SpeechTools: the CSLU Toolkit,?
in Proceedings of theInternational Conference on Spoken LanguageProcessing, 3221-3224.Marilyn A. Walker, Candace A. Kamm and Diane J. Lit-man.
2000.
?Towards Developing General Modelsof Usability with PARADISE,?
Natural LanguageEngineering.Karen Ward and Peter A. Heeman.
2000.
?Acknowledg-ments in Human-Computer Interaction,?
in Pro-ceedings of the 1st Meeting of the North AmericanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (NAACL 2000), April 29-May 4, 280-287.Karen Ward, Tasha Hollingsed, and Javier A. AldazSalmon.
2003.
?Toward Building ConversationalSpoken-Language Interfaces: Acknowledgment Usein American English and Mexican Spanish,?
Pro-ceedings of the Fourth Mexican International Con-ference on Computer Science, September 10-12, 10-17.
