Decision Trees for Sense Disambiguation of Prepositions:Case of OverYukiko Sasaki AlamDept.
of Digital Media ScienceHosei University, Tokyosasaki@k.hosei.ac.jpAbstractThis paper proposes two decision trees for de-termining the meanings of the prepositionaluses of over by using the contextual informa-tion.
It first examines the meanings of theprepositional uses of over and then aims atidentifying the contexts for interpreting themeanings.
Some contexts are complementaryfeatures, and that makes the decision trees sim-ple.
The trees have been tested on a corpus, andthe results are encouraging.1 IntroductionPrepositions have been studied from a variety of per-spectives.
The syntactic status has been probed by suchlinguists as Jackendoff [77], Emonds [85], Rauh [93]and Pullum and Huddleston [02].
Cognitive theoristshave paid attention to the polysemous nature of preposi-tions and explored the conceptual relationships of thepolysemy, often proposing the graphical mental images(Lakoff and Johnson [80], Brugman [81, 88], Herskovits[86], Langacker [87], Tyler and Evans [01]).
Pragmaticaspects of prepositions have been studied by such schol-ars as Fauconnier [94] and Visetti and Cadiot [02].
Thedeictic properties of spatial prepositions have been ex-amined by Hill [82], while the geographical informationprovided by them was an interest of computational re-search (Xu and Badler [00], Tezuka et al[01]).
A prac-tical study of the usage of prepositions was carried outfor the purpose of teaching English as a second lan-guage (Wahlen [95], Lindstromberg [97], Yates [99]).In the fields related to natural language processing,prepositional phrase attachment has been a topic forresearch for quite a long time, and in recent years, theproblem was explored with a neural network-based ap-proach (Sopena, LLoberas and Moliner [98]) and with asyntax-based trainable approach (Yeh and Valin [98]).Although past research has revealed various aspects ofprepositions, to my knowledge there is not much seman-tic research of prepositions available for computationaluse, which requires a vigorous formalization of repre-senting the semantics.A recent semantic study of prepositions for computa-tional use is found in Voss [02], with a focus on spatialprepositions.
Spatial prepositions are divided into threecategories according to which one of the two thematicmeanings between place and path they acquire whenthey are in argument, adjunct and non-subcategorizedpositions of particular types of verbs.
The semantics ofspatial prepositions dealt with in Voss [02] is not lexicalbut thematic.The present study places more focus on the lexicalmeanings of prepositions rather than on the thematicmeanings because it is intended for use in machinetranslation (MT), where the meaning of a sentence, aphrase or a lexical entry of a source language must bepreserved in the target language, even though it maytake a different syntactic form in the source and targetlanguages.
The preservation of meaning is even moreimportant at an Interlingua-based MT, because meaningis a medium of translation between source and targetlanguages.The current research deals with the prepositionaluses of over, but not with the uses of over in differentsyntactic categories such as the use as adjective (as inThe initial test is over), as part of a phrasal verb (as inHe handed over his notes to me), as part of an idiomaticphrase (as in She said it over and over) and as a modi-fier of a quantity (as in  over forty years ago).
Theseuses could be identified in terms of their syntactic char-acteristics.
On the other hand, the prepositional uses aregrouped under the same syntactic category, but exhibitdifferent meanings in different semantic contexts, re-quiring semantic treatments as well for the disambigua-tion of the senses.This paper examines the meanings of the preposi-tional uses of over, identifies the semantic contexts, andproposes two decision trees for interpreting the differentmeanings.
The second section will divide the preposi-tional uses of over into two groups according to whichone of the two functional units between Head and Com-plement is likely to identity the meanings.
It will alsobring into light the semantic features of the Head andComplement components that make the interpretationsof the uses possible.
The third section will discusses thetwo decision trees proposed in this paper, and the fourthsection gives an evaluation of the trees, before conclud-ing this paper.2 Meanings of the prepositional usesPrepositional uses of over could be divided into twogroups: those whose meaning is likely to be identifiedby the Complement noun phrases and those that needsemantic information in the Head components.
Thenoun phrase following a preposition is the Complementof the preposition, whereas the verb, verb phrase, nounor noun phrase governing a preposition or a preposi-tional phrase is the Head.2.1  Over identified by its ComplementUnlike the uses of over governed or required by theHead verb or noun, over the weekend in They have beenunwell over the weekend can appear with almost all se-mantic classes of verbs, as illustrated below.
(1) a.  I heard over the weekend of a terrible fuss.b.
He thought about it over the weekendand accepted.c.
Talks with bankers were taking placeover the weekend.d.
It probably began over the weekendof March 27.e.
His father had died over the weekend.f.
American diplomats arrived here overthe weekend.The phrase over the weekend appears with a sensationverb (1a), a cognition verb (1b), an occurrence verb (1c),an aspectual verb (1d), a change of state verb (1e) and amovement verb (1f).
This suggests that over the week-end is not required by a particular semantic class ofverbs.
At the same time, it is likely to be identified fromthe semantic features of the Complement noun phrase,which denotes a definite period of time in discourseduring which an event takes place.
This use of over iscalled over_during because it is similar to the usage ofduring.On the other hand, over can appear with the Com-plement denoting an indefinite period of time in dis-course, as in:(2)  Altogether, tutorials take place over a period ofabout twenty-four weeks.The Complements of over_during in (1) and this useshare the semantic characteristic by referring to time ofduration, but differ in that the former refers to a specificperiod of time in discourse while the latter only a lengthof time over which an event continues.
This use isnamed over_duration.Another use that denotes a length of time is as fol-lows:(3)  Skimming a chapter for its main ideasmay be done over coffee.Unlike the other two we have seen above, the Comple-ment does not refer directly to a space of time, but stillthe prepositional phrase implies an interval of time, inparticular the duration of drinking coffee.
Like the useof over_duration, the Complement does not refer to adefinite period in discourse because the semantic func-tion is to indicate a length of time.
The Complement inthis type is characterized by its meaning denoting mealor drink as well as by referring to a nonspecific meal ordrink in discourse.
This use is termed over_coffee.Like the three uses we have seen above, the follow-ing is also likely to be identified by the syntax and se-mantics of the Complements:(4)   We heard the news over the radio at lunchbreak.The phrase over the radio indicates a means of hear-ing the news.
The Complement in this use is often asequence of the definite particle the followed by a noundenoting a device of communication such as radio andtelephone.
Although the Head verb or noun tends torefer to a communicative act, as this use takes a Com-plement with distinctive semantic features, it shouldbelong to this group.
It is called over_means.Another use of over that could belong to this groupis the following:(5)  You can go all over the place.The Complement denotes a place in many cases, butsometimes a physical object, and this use of over is al-ways preceded by all.
Although the Head verb or nountends to denote movement, this use also appears withother types of predicates, as illustrated below:(6)  a.
Paint all over the studio.b.
He is known all over Europe.c.
Tapes crash all over my desk.The following is a list of the prepositional uses ofover that are likely to be identified by the semantic fea-tures of the Complements:Table 1.
Uses identifiable by the ComplementsThe following is a list of the features identifying theuses of over by the Complements.Table 2.
The features of the Complements distinguish-ing the meanings of over2.2   Over identifiable by its HeadUnlike the prepositional uses of over that are likely tobe identified by the semantics of the Complementsalone, the following are the uses that would require thesemantic information of the Heads as well for identifica-tion.2.2.1    Head denoting a physical eventWhen the Head of over denotes movement and theComplement a place or a physical object, the over-prepositional phrase indicates a place above which andacross which an object moves, as given below:(7) a.
The bullet goes flying over my headand lands in the field behind me.b.
Safe, efficient movement over snow andice is impossible without suitablecrampons.The prepositional phrase indicates a path over which anobject moves, and therefore it is termed over_path.Another use of over indicating place is illustrated bythe following example:(8)   After spreading her napkin over her lap,Alice began to eat.The prepositional phrase implies a place on which orabove which an object sits.
In this example, her napkinis placed over her lap.
This use is called over_locus.
TheHead refers to an event denoted by a verb or noun be-longing to the put verb class  (cf.
Levin [93]) while theComplement a place or a physical object.In addition, this use is also used with a Head verbdenoting the presence of an object as in:(9)  An occasional loop stays over the needleafter knitting the row.Indeed, this use is more complex than it appears.
In asentence with the BE verb, we find the following exam-ples:(10)  a.
My painting is over the sofa.b.
There were no taps over the sink.The use of over in this construction is tricky because itis difficult to distinguish from the use of over meaningabout, as illustrated below:(11)  The disagreement here is over the substitutabil-ity of assets.As complex as such, this construction would need aspecial syntactic treatment separately from other uses.That is, in this construction, the subject noun phrase isthe Head of over, and thus the semantics of the subjectalong with that of the Complement must be examinedfor proper identification.Another special syntactic treatment should be givento an over-prepositional phrase modifying a noun phraseor noun, as in:(12) I can just see the light over the door fromwhere I?m standing.In this example, the Head is a noun phrase the light andthe Complement the door.
Since the Head is a physicalobject, and the Complement a physical object, the use ofover is over_locus, which means that the Head entity islocated at the Complement entity.
When the Head inthis nominal modifier construction denotes an event orstate, as in his return flight over the North Sea, therewould be no special treatment required.
It can be treatedin the same manner as when the verb is the Head.A special pragmatic knowledge should come intoplay  in the use of over_locus.
It is not straight-forward,in fact, to determine this use only by the semantics ofthe Head and Complement.
In every construction forthis use, there is a possibility that the prepositionalphrase indicates the meaning of across, as illustrated in:(13) a.
His apartment is over my flat.b.
His apartment is over the river.Although both sentences have the same syntactic struc-ture, they have noun phrases referring to different places.meanings examplesover_during Over the next decade a globalapproach is going to be essen-tial.over_durationTheir flowers appear over sev-eral weeks in summer.over_coffee There?s a lot for you to talkabout over lunch.over_means Lewd songs are sung over themicrophone.over_many-partsThe dog ran all over the parkinglot.meanings features ofthe Headsfeatures of the Com-plementsover_duringtime+definite, +duration,over_durationtime-definite, +durationover_coffee{meal, drink}-definiteover_meanscommunication tool,+definiteover_many-parts{place, physical object}[syntactic features: allover + NP]As an apartment can be located over a flat in the realworld, the meaning of the prepositional phrase in (13a)implies a place where an object is located (i.e.over_locus).
On the other hand, as an apartment is usu-ally not located above the river, the meaning in (13b)implies a place across where an object is situated.
Thislatter use of over is named over_across.
To distinguishbetween over_locus and over_across requires more thanthe semantics of the Head and Complement components.The distinction would require encyclopedic worldknowledge.
Without having such a knowledge system,this paper will treat both over_locus and over_across  inthe same manner except for the fact that the defaultchoice between the two is over_locus due to the muchhigher frequency in its use.2.2.2   Head denoting a nonphysical eventThere are four uses of over whose Head denotes a non-physical event.
The use we examine at first is illustratedin the following examples:(14)  a.  Marcos ruled over the Philippines for 20years.b.
He has considerable control over heractivities.c.
He had one huge advantage over everyoneelse.The Head denotes an act of control or having morepower.
Among verbs of such a class are preside, rule,win, excel, dominate and tower.
This use metaphoricallyimplies that an object is above the other object in termsof power.The next use of over is found in:(15)  A general dictionary was preferred overthe domain-specific dictionaries.The Head is a verb or noun denoting selection.
Amongthem are prefer, choose, select, favor and the deverbalnouns.
This use is called over_prefer.
The noun coun-terpart of a verb in this class, however, should be treatedwith care, because the over may imply the meaning ofabout, as in(16)  They are organized to allow the userschoice over what to see, in the correcttime sequence.What is going on is that over_prefer requires two enti-ties in order to choose one over the other.
When thereare no such two entities between which to choose, as in(16), the meaning of over turns out to be that of about.On the other hand, when there are, the meaning isover_prefer, as illustrated in:(17)  One of the most basic freedoms anywhereis the right to peace, and the choice ofquiet over noise.Since verbs of this family are transitive verbs requiringthe Object, when the sentence contains both the Objectnoun phrase and an over-prepositional phrase, the mean-ing of over_prefer obtains.
In the proposed decision treeinvolving this use, the Head is limited to a verb, not anoun because of this syntactic freedom of a noun in thiscategory.
(To handle cases involving such a noun, aquestion as to the number of the arguments governed bythe noun must be added.
)A final discussion is about two uses namedover_about and over_because.
The use of over_becauseis illustrated in the following examples:(18) a.
Teachers were suspended over war posters.b.
He quit over a bribery scandal.The over-prepositional phrase implies a cause of theevent or state.
It seems that the meaning ofover_because requires a punctual event as in (18a) and(18b).
On the other hand, over with durational verbs inthis class gives rise to the meaning of over_about,  asillustrated by the following examples:(19) a.
He talked over the issue for three hours.b.
Disputes over authorship are fiercelyfought.c.
There is growing concern over his illness.d.
They thought over all the possible errors.The Head of this use denotes events of communication(such as hear and chat), agree events (such as disagreeand fight), psychological events or states (such as worry,cry and agonize) and cognitive events or states (such asthink and know).Table 3 shows the uses of over the meanings ofwhich are identified mainly by the semantics of theHead.Table 3.
The meanings of over identified by its HeadTable 4 lists the semantic features in the Head thatcontribute to identifying the meanings of the preposi-tional uses of over.meanings examplesover_path Let the eye move over it.over_across The gallery is over the front door.I admit that part of the ball was overthe line, but that?s not enough.over_locus Jessica sprayed paint over the furniture.over_control It was Prime Minister Yoshida whopresided over Japan?s post-war eco-nomic boom.over_prefer I would prefer coffee over tea.over_about He?s mulling over an offer from NBCto star in his own series.At the counter, a couple puzzled overwhich lottery numbers to choose.over_becauseTeachers were suspended over warposters.He quit over a bribery scandal.Table 4.
Semantic features in the Head identifying themeanings of over3 Decision Trees for DisambiguationHow do we distinguish computationally the meanings ofthe prepositional uses of over listed in Tables 1 and 3?Based on Tables 2 and 4, which are lists of the semanticfeatures in the Complements and Heads that are likelyto identify the meanings of over, two decision trees areproposed.
One is used to identify the meanings of overfrom the semantic features of the Complements (Figure1 in the Appendix), and the other, from the semanticfeatures of the Heads (Figure 2 in the Appendix).
Thefirst search for the meaning of over should start with thedecision tree by its Complement (illustrated in Figure 1),because most prepositional uses of over characterizedby the Complements denote time over event, and thatmeans that they are the modifiers of events (at the levelof verb phrases) rather than the modifiers of individualverbs (located inside verb phrases).
After failing in theinitial search at the decision tree by its Complement,another search for the meaning of over should takeplace at the decision tree by its Head in Figure 2.The decision tree in Figure 1 asks whether the Com-plement of over refers and/or contains such features aslisted in the diamonds, while in the decision tree in Fig-ure 2, the question concerns the Head of over.The Head component of over can be a verb govern-ing the over-prepositional phrase (as in I wouldPREFER coffee over tea), a verb phrase modified by theover-prepositional phrase (as in A BIG EARTHQUAKEOCCURED over the weekend) or a noun (as in He hasconsiderable CONTROL over her activities).
In the BEverb construction (such as The issue is over the electionof the chairman), the subject is the Head of over.
TheComplement of over is a noun phrase governed by over(as in over THE SPRING BREAK).4 EvaluationAn evaluation of the two decision trees was conductedmanually by using 500 sentences containing over pro-duced by the British National Corpus (BNC).
Amongthe 500 instances of over, there are 382 prepositionaluses.
Among the remaining, fifty six (56) instances arethose meaning more than or excess, which are locatedcharacteristically immediately before a quantity word orphrase.
Examples are given below:(20)  (a)  We have visited over 90 schoolsand reached 36,000 pupils.
(b)  Anything over this amount is, basicallyliable to inheritance tax at 40%.Twenty (20) instances of over are adjectives meaningcompletion, as in:(21)  My war seemed to be over.Fifteen (15) instances are those used as adverb, an ex-ample of which is illustrated:(22)  ?
, and read the list over and over again.The sentences including over and over again are re-peated twice in the data because of the two instances ofover in the phrase.
The data contains six such sentences,resulting in 12 counts of over and over again.
Seven (7)instances are used right before the to-prepositionalphrase or toward-prepositional phrase, as in:(23)  She went over to the Cookery andRefreshments Tent, but ?The distinction between such instances of over as in(21), (22) and (23) on one hand and prepositional useson the other could be made by purely syntactic treat-ments because of their different syntactic characteristics.Most of instances meaning more than or excess as illus-trated in (20) are morphologically distinguishable fromprepositional uses, because most of quantity nouns ornoun phrases after over refer to something other thantime.
However, among the total 56 instances implyingmore than or excess, thirteen (13) quantity phrases referto time.
As such a phrase is composed of the same struc-ture (over + noun/noun phrase) as an over-prepositionalphrase, this appears to cause difficulty.
But a carefulexamination of these constructions reveals otherwise.Such a phrase of quantity occurs in a syntactic positionrequiring a noun phrase, as illustrated in:(24)  a.  ?
after 12 years of living in thoseconditions, I would probably wantto die myself.meanings features of the-Headsfeatures of theComplementsover_pathmove events {place, physi-cal object}over_locusput events, stayevents,  be verb{place, physi-cal object}over_acrossput events, stayevents, be verb{place, physi-cal object}over_controlcontrol eventsover_preferprefer verbsover_about+durationcommunicationevents, agreeevents, psychologi-cal events/states,cognitiveevents/states,over_because-durationpsychologicalevents/states,cognitiveevents/statesb.
?
I had heard nothing about myfamily for over ten years.c.
?
since they were written over 10years ago, ?All these phrases of quantity are located either after apreposition such as for, in, within and after or in an ad-verbial phrase ending with such a word as ago and late.Therefore, a good syntactic parser should be capable ofdistinguishing these quantity phrases with over fromover-prepositional phrases.Two instances of over are found in quoted phrases insentences.
Eighteen (18) sentences are either incomplete(as in PUB REFURBISHMENTS ?
OVER THE LIMITand Over the wrenched?)
or difficult to parse (as inFirst part over, second part starts and ?
moved hardover in the direction of the spin).With the non-prepositional uses and anomalous in-stances of over in the data aside, the next topic of dis-cussion is about the three hundred and eighty two (382)prepositional uses found in the data.
Among the 382,eighty seven (87) instances of over are parts of phrasalverbs or idiomatic phrases.
Among the 87, fifty (50)instances of over do NOT govern a prepositional phrase,as illustrated below:(25)  a.
And Dicky can take over as a footman.b.
She went over to fetch a cup of coffee.c.
I explain the position to the daughtersand hand Mum over to them.d.
?
there is no reason for their practicedeyes to cloud over when ?Thirty seven (37) instances of over are parts of phrasalverbs governing an over-prepositional phrase.
Examplesare given below:(26)  a.
Go over the launch failure proceduresafter any long lay-off from flying.b.
?
and failed promptly to hand overdetainees to the police - ?With the lexicon containing sufficient informationon such phrasal verbs, there would remain two hundredand ninety five (295) prepositional uses of over, themeanings of which must be distinguished.
The decisiontrees proposed in this paper succeeded in determiningthe meanings of two hundred and seventy six (276) in-stances, and failed to interpret the meanings of nineteen(19), resulting in a precision of 93.5 percent.
However,if the system does not recognize phrasal verbs, the valueof the precision will be lower.Some more problems and possible solutions are dis-cussed here.
It would be difficult to determine the use ofover when the verbs in the sentence are conjoined, as inWe finished our coffee and watched the seagulls whirl-ing and shrieking over the harbour in the spring sun-shine.
When the verb shriek is categorized as apsychological verb, the use of over will be interpreted asover_about, which is a wrong interpretation in this case.The decision tree in Figure 1 will fail to recognizethe following example because a search for the use ofover_means requires the semantic feature +definite: ?the cruel, brutal voices that bellow over loudhailersabout injustice ?.
The Complement of over, loud-hailers is not preceded by the definite article the, whichis a requirement for identifying over_means.
The feature+definite may be dispensable for sense identification,but it will be needed when the decision tree is used forgeneration, because the definite article often occurs inthis type of prepositional phrase as in over the phone.A difficulty in determining whether a noun refers toa physical object or an abstract entity causes a problem.The example ?
with the lying motto over its gate ?
ishard to analyze.
The use in this example is notover_about, but over_locus.
With the correct interpreta-tion of motto either as a physical object or a statement,the decision tree could lead to the right meaning of over.If motto refers to a physical object, the use of over isover_locus, whereas if it is not, the use is over_about.In the example such as The drag of the cable overone wing can make ?, the deverbal noun drag must beproperly parsed as the Head of over in order to interpretthe meaning of over correctly.Based on the assumption (a) that a syntactic parsingis successful, (b) that the over in phrasal verbs are rec-ognized beforehand, and (c) that verbs and nouns areproperly categorized into classes, the two decision treescould identify the meanings of most prepositional usesof over in the corpus.
In addition, information onwhether the Head event refers to a durational event ornot would enable the tree to distinguish betweenover_about and over_because.
Table 5 gives a break-down of the instances of over found in the data (PPstands for prepositional phrase):over included in or used as No.PP  (over not in phrasal verbs) 295(19failed)PP  (over in phrasal verbs) 37parts of phrasal verbs (notgoverning PP)50quantity modifier 56adjective, meaning completion 20adverb ( all over again, etc.)
15over followed by a directionalPP (over other than parts ofphrasal verbs)7inside quotes 2unable to parse 18Table 5.
Breakdown of over in 500 instances5 ConclusionAfter examining the meanings, the prepositional uses ofover have been divided into two groups: those whosemeanings are identifiable by their Complements andthose by their Heads.
Previous studies have focused onthe identification of the meanings of over, whereas thepresent paper not only on the meanings, but on the con-texts for interpreting the meanings.Two decision trees have been proposed for determin-ing the meanings of the prepositional uses of over byusing the semantic features of the Head and Comple-ment components.
The decision trees are fairly simpleand easy to implement in a system.
The decision treeshave been successful in identifying the meanings of theprepositional uses of over in data taken from BNC.ReferencesBrugman, Claudia.
1988.
The story of over: Polysemy,semantics and the structure of the lexicon.
NewYork: Garland Press.
[1981.
The story of over.Berkely, CA: UC-Berkely MA thesis.
]Emonds, Joseph.
1985.
A unified theory of syntacticcategories.
Dordrecht: Foris.Fauconnier, Gilles.
1994.
Mental spaces.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Feigenbaum, Susanne and Dennis Kurzon (eds.).
2002.Prepositions in their syntactic, semantic and prag-matic context.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.Herskovits, Annette.
1986.
Language and spatial cogni-tion An interdisciplinary study of the prepositions inEnglish.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Hill, Cliffort 1982.
Up/down, front/back, left/right.
Acontrastive study of Hausa and English.
In Weissen-born and Klein, 13-42.Huddleston, Rodney and Geoffrey Pullum.
2002.
TheCambridge grammar of the English language.
Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press.Jackendoff, Ray.
1977.
The architecture of the language.Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Jacobs, Roderick and Peter Rosenbaum.
1970.
Readingsin English Transformational Grammar.
Waltham,Mass.
: Ginn & Company.Lakoff, George and Mark Johnson.
1980.
Metaphors welive by.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.Langacker, Ronald.
1987.
Foundations of cognitivegrammar, vol.
1.
Stanford, CA: Stanford UniversityPress.Levin, Beth.
1993.
English verb classes and alterna-tions.
Chicago/London: The University of ChicagoPress.Lindstromberg, Seth.
1998.
English prepositions ex-plained.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.Pullum, Geoffrey and Rodney Huddleston.
2002.Prepositions and prepositional phrases.
In Huddle-ston and Pullum (eds.
), 597-661.Rauh, Gisa.
1993.
On the grammar of lexical and non-lexical prepositions in English.
In Zelinskiy-Wibbelt(eds.
), 99-150.Sopena, Joseph M., Agusti LLoberas and Joan L.Moliner.
1998.
A connectionist approach to preposi-tional phrase attachment for real world texts.
InCOLING-ACL ?98, 1233-1237.Tezuka, Taro, Ryong Lee, Yahiko Kambayashi andHiroki Takakura.
2001.
Web-based inference rulesfor processing conceptual geographical relationships.Proceedings of Web Information Systems Engineer-ing, 14-21.Tyler, Andrea and Vyvyan Evans.
2001.
Reconsideringprepositional polysemy networks: The case of over.Language 77.724-765.Visetti, Yves-Marie and Pierre Cadiot.
2002.
Instabilityand the theory of semantic forms Starting from thecase of prepositions.
In Feigenbaum, Susanne andDennis Kurzon (eds.
), 9-39.Voss, Clare.
2002.
Interlingua-based machine transla-tion of spatial expressions.
University of Maryland:Ph.D. Dissertation.Wahlen, Gloria.
1995.
Prepositions illustrated.
Michi-gan: The University of Michigan Press.Weissenborn, Juergen and Wolfgang Klein.
1982.
Hereand there.
Cross-linguistic studies on deixis anddemonstration.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.Xu, Yilun Dianna and Norman Badler.
2000.
Algo-rithms for generating motion trajectories describedby prepositions.
Proceedings of Computer Anima-tion 2000, 30-35.Yates, Jean.
1999.
The ins and outs of prepositions Aguidebook for ESL students.
New York: Barron?s.Yeh, Alexander S. and Marc B. Vilain.
1998.
Someproperties of preposition and subordinate conjunc-tion attachments.
In COLING-ACL ?98, 1436-1442.Zelinsky-Wibbelt, Cornelia (ed.).
1993.
The semanticsof prepositions: From mental processing to naturallanguage processing.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.AppendixDOES THE COMPLEMENT REFER TO AND/OR CONTAIN .
.
.
?Figure 1.
Decision tree for the prepositional uses of over identifiable by the ComplementsDOES THE HEAD REFER TO AND/OR CONTAIN .
.
.
?Figure 2.
Decision tree for the prepositional uses of over identifiable by the Heads
