NLP serving the cause of language learningFr?d?rique SegondXerox Research Centre Europe6, chemin de MauperthuisF-38240 Meylan - FRANCEsegond@xrce.xerox.comThibault ParmentierXerox Research Centre Europe6, chemin de MauperthuisF-38240 Meylan - FRANCEparmentier@xrce.xerox.comAbstractE-learning paves the way to a new type ofcourse, more student centred, granulized, ondemand, and highly interactive.
NaturalLanguage Processing (NLP) technologiesassociated with other multimedia technologiescan help to address the major issues raised bythis new type of courses: interaction,personalization and reliable informationaccess.
This paper presents Exills, a true e-learning solution which integrates naturallanguage processing tools and virtual reality1.Exills is unique in that,, unlike most of thelanguage learning systems, it focuses onimproving learners?
performance rather thanlearners?
competence.IntroductionThis paper is not a theoretical paper.
Itdescribes a true e-learning system that concentrateson improving users?
performance in a foreignlanguage and integrates natural languageprocessing technologies.The system, Exills (www.exills.com) represents aninnovative way of integrating Natural Languagetechnologies and multimedia technologies in orderto provide a visionary e-learning tool for learningforeign languages.Exills is the result of a close collaborationbetween language teachers, specialists in virtualreality, linguists and computer scientists.
Whileretaining ?traditional content?
such as languageexercises, grammar worksheets and speech acts,Exills takes advantage of new technologies forinteraction (asynchronous and synchronous), gameaspect and course scenarization.Exills has been conceived with the constantconcern for pedagogical quality and fordifferentiating itself from both CDROMs and faceto face language courses.
We have been careful to1The software we use for Virtual reality comes fromBlaxxun (http://www.blaxxun.com/en/site/index.html).renounce using technologies, even innovative ones,if they did not serve the cause of a pedagogical e-learning system.
The focus has been to improvelearner?s performance rather than to insist onimproving learner?s competence2.
Indeed,experimenting with different available languagelearning solutions focusing on competence (viavocabulary exercises and grammar) led us to theconclusion that these types of activities do notinsure that learners are then able to interact in aforeign language.
While they might acquire theconceptual knowledge of the language they are notnecessarily able to use it in practical contexts.
Inthe case of Exills, learners are put into practicalsituations.
The situations are represented viadifferent scenarios.
In most cases the scenariocorresponds to everyday work situations.Exills focuses on the interaction aspect oflanguage learning driven by the use of the Internet,in particular, on interaction and information access.Interaction within Exills includes languageunderstanding through reading and listening.
Italso improves language production in writing.
Aswe will see in the conclusion adding speechtechnologies to Exills will enable users to alsoimprove on language oral production.In the demonstration scenarios that areaccessible online, targeted users are professionalswith an intermediate level in English or French.These scenarios put users in typical work situationssuch as introducing themselves, reading emails,searching for and understanding information,writing and making a presentation, ordering theirmeal, interacting with their colleagues andcustomers.
Part of the scenario is dedicated to thediscovery of cultural aspects.2Competence and performance as defined byChomsky (Chomsky, 1965): Competence isthe speaker-hearer's knowledge of hislanguage.
Performance is the speaker-hearer's actual use of his language inconcrete situationsIn what follows, after presenting our view of e-learning, we describe Exills and its differenttechnical components.
We then conclude bysuggesting other linguistic technologies that couldserve the cause of language e-learning.How e-learning affects our way of learningLearning through the Internet, or e-learning, pavesthe way for a new type of course which, most ofthe time, complements the face-to-face course(blended learning), but can also be substituted forthe face-to-face courses.
While traditional andComputer-Based training is targeted to a group ofstudents, e-learning is often referred to as?my-learning?
as it is highly personalized,granulized, on demand and highly interactive.
Thecharacteristics of e-learning are that it provideslearners with the possibility to learn exactly whatthey need, from anywhere and at any timeE-learning completely changes both theteaching and the learning processes.
Teachersbecome tutors that support students?
work.Students take more responsibility in the learningprocess as they know what they need to learn to beefficient.
This is especially true in a life longtraining context.
They become actors in theirlearning process by choosing their course topics,elaborating their learning paths, exchanging withother students as well as with tutors.E-learning is definitively a new way of learningthat can take advantage of new Internettechnologies.However, despite the explosion of e-learningplatforms also called LMS for learningmanagement system (see thot.cursus.edu) there arevery few systems which take real advantage of thefunctionalities the Internet offers such as:interaction, personalization and huge informationaccess (for both students and tutors).
Indeed, mostof the current e-learning solutions are LMS that areformer Knowledge Management Systemscustomized for learning.
Because they have notfirstly been designed for a learning purpose theyoften miss the pedagogical dimension.
Othersolutions are a simple web link to already existingCD-ROM content.
This solution usually offers asimple type of interaction such as emails with thetutors and, sometimes, forums with other students.Within the e-learning domain, languagelearning is one of the most successful marketsegments as it comes second only to IT andmarketing.
This is probably due to the fact that formany years it has been possible to learn a languageusing electronic media (CD-ROM).
Medium tolarge publishers have been successful indeveloping language training multimedia contentof good quality.
Still, the majority of so-called e-language learning solutions that are on the markettoday are CD-ROM content transferred onto theweb rather that real online solutions.The reason is probably that most of thepublishers in this area are specialists in producinggood quality pedagogical content but are notspecialists of the Internet, nor do they have thetechnological resources necessary to transfer theircontent onto the Web.
Offering on-line content onthe web is very different from offering content on aCD-ROM.
These media organize content in acompletely different way and this has a strongimpact on the basic pedagogical principles.
Thisshows up at different levels.
For instance, studieshave shown that users will spend at the most 15minutes on an Internet learning session versus 45minutes on a CD-ROM.
learning.
Besides, there isthe issue of how to organize learning material sothat navigation among short learning modules ispossible without affecting the learning pedagogicalprocess.
Finally, record keeping, tracking, tracingand flexibility are all essential functions formaking an on line course successful as well as forkeeping user motivation high.
These are just a fewof the issues that need to be addressed whencreating high quality content on the Internet forlanguage learning.Exills is a true e-learning solution, that on thetechnological part, integrates virtual reality withlinguistic and collaborative technologies as well aswith a smart search engine.Exills?
general featuresIn very general terms, Exills could be described asa hybrid between an authoring tool and a deliveryplatform particularly well suited to building anddistributing language learning applications.Exills user interface provides interactive accessto the most up-to-date Internet technologies.The user interface is composed of:?
a 3D scene to put the user in a cognitivecontext in line with the topic of the course;?
a chat frame to allow students, robots andtutors to interact via text (writtenproduction);?
a frame to provide learners with anyinformation they might need as well as withactivities to do.?
a toolbar to provide learners with easyaccess to specific functionalities such as: alinguistic toolbox (contextual dictionarylook up, phonetic spell checker, conjugationengine), a notepad to take notes, a history oftheir work to review it at any time, as wellas shortcuts, through maps, to navigateinside 3D scenes.
They can also get helpfrom tutors, access their profile and a list ofpersonalized exercises, grammarworksheets, and speech acts.Each course is associated with a scenario.
Thesescenarios are usually associated with a mission toaccomplish.
This mission integrates learningactivities, game aspects and competition betweenstudents.
In order to achieve the mission, learnersneed to interact with each other, with the tutor aswell as with the virtual environment.
Thanks to thevirtual reality this interaction takes place like invideo games.
Learners play a video game in aforeign language.In its current incarnation Exills has thefollowing underlying features.LearnerLinguistic ServicesCollaborative andCommunityManagement ToolsSmart Search EngineFigure 1: Technologies involvedVirtual realityWhile virtual reality presents real advantagesfor learning, this technology is not yet stronglyused for this purpose.In Exills, virtual reality is used both for interactionand for personalization.
Personalization, becausewhen they are in virtual reality, learners canchoose a representation of themselves, also knownas an avatar, and can move around the virtualplaces like in the real world.
For instance, learnerscan meet with other avatars/learners, interact withthem and access the Internet.The virtual reality induces a type ofinteraction that completely differs from email,forum or face to face.
Part of this difference is dueto the fact that people hide themselves behind anavatar but also because of the game aspectpermitted by the virtual reality.First experiments showed that in virtualreality, as in games, people behave completelydifferently and tend to interact much more.
Forinstance, we have noticed that while in a face toface or in a video course, most of the time, only themost confident students speak up; in a virtualenvironment, everyone dares more to expresshimself/herself.
This definitively helps the tutor inevaluating students?
ability.To ease and push learners?
interaction, it isimportant to provide them with an interactiontopic.
This is where the notion of scenario comesin and where, again, virtual reality turns out to bean important technology.
The scenario is there tohelp students to interact among themselves but alsoto immerse them directly into ?prototypicalsituations?.
For instance, if students need to learn alanguage for work reasons, a scenario will be builtaround their everyday life at work, including thephysical work place and this induces reaction anddiscussion correlated to the 3D scenes.
Because itprovides learners with a reason to interact, like inrole playing games, the scenario makes interactionmore effective than in traditional chat and forums.Figure 2: Set the student in a cognitive contextusing the 3D.What is more natural than clicking on acomputer screen to access emails, than clicking ona CD to hear music, than visiting a library to readbooks or than being invited to chat with thereceptionist when arriving at the reception desk?Because it mimics the real world, students canenter quickly into the virtual reality environment.Students usually just need a few hours?
training toeasily manipulate the mouse in order to move fromone virtual place to another.Linguistic technologiesExills adds other technologies to enhanced virtualreality in such a way that the resulting learningsystem makes real use of the potential of theInternet.In its current incarnation, Exills offers learnerscontextual bilingual dictionaries, morphologicalanalyzers and syntactic taggers, a languageidentifier and phonetic spell checkers.
Thesetechnologies are there to help students expressthemselves or understand a foreign language.Linguistic technologies associated with virtualreality retain the personalized aspect of individualcourses while being immersed in the collectivecourse.Within the chat, Exills offers a comprehensionhelp service which uses the context to first retrievethe most appropriate translation of a word(syntactic and semantic disambiguation).
As aresult, the students?
comprehension is sped up andinteraction becomes smoother.The same contextual dictionary look up couldbe used for providing the student with a list ofsentences where the word they don?t understandappears with the same meaning.
In that case, thepedagogical process is different: instead ofproviding the student directly with the translation,the system provides him/her with other contextualuses of the same wordFigure 3: Understanding assistance.If we now consider the linguistic analysis ofstudent production (chat/forum contribution,exercise, writing, etc.
), linguistic technologiesprovide students with customizable services whichallow them to parse and tag their own productionin order to check its correctness.
Here again thegoal is not to provide them with the correct answer,this is left to the tutor, but rather to help themdetect their own mistakes.Figure 4: Through linguistic services, students cananalyze and correct their written production.Along the same lines as ?learning by example?,linguistic tools can be used to highlight specificlanguage constructions such as functional relations,terminology or idiomatic expressions.Derivational morphology can be used to discoverthe words of a same family and improve students?vocabulary.A simple morphological analyzer gives studentsaccess to verb conjugations or noun declensions.Figure 5: Access to the conjugation of a verbExills also includes a language identifier toforce students to interact only in the language theyare learning.
This integration relieves the tutor ofchecking on each student, and pushes students toexpress themselves more in that language.The language identifier is integrated into thechat.
This module identifies the language used by astudent and if different from the one the student issupposed to learn, the system blocks any type ofinteraction.
Students then receive a message sayingthat they are not using the appropriate language.The language identifier can also be plugged intomail or forum services between students or evenbetween students and tutor.Figure 6: Automatic control of the language usedin the chat.A phonetic spell checker is also available tostudents to help them to learn the correct spellingof words.Linguistic technologies can be used to reinforcethe personalization aspect of e-learning.
Indeed,linguistic technologies open the way to learning onany text that is of interest for the course and foreach individual learner.
For instance, professionalscan work on their everyday technicaldocumentation and can learn their professionalterminology in a foreign language.
In particular,linguistic technologies can automatically extracttechnical terminology for them.Smart search enginesExills uses smart search engines in order tostrengthen the personalization and interactiveaspects.
Indeed, having a smart search engine thatcan take into account students?
needs and interestthrough a detailed user profile and can retrievepersonalized content from the web clearlyimproves the personalization aspect and courseefficiency.
Tutors and students can use the Internetas an infinite source of information to enrichcourse content.
This is where collaborativetechnologies play a crucial role.
Information on theInternet varies in quality, and it is especiallyimportant in a course context to be able to separatethe wheat from the chaff.Smart search engines strengthen thepersonalization aspect of e-learning.
They canretrieve documents that match the user?s profile.This user profile encompasses student-specificdifficulties in the courses as well as the student?spersonal interest, be it for work reasons or in life ingeneral.
An example of this is a student who isinterested in American politics and has difficultieswith the use of idiomatic expressions in French.
Asmart search engine uses morpho-syntacticanalysis of the retrieved text as well as an ontologyto provide the student with texts about Americanpolitics that contain idioms.
Using smart meta-search engines permits a search on the Intranet aswell as on student emails.
This is especially usefulin a context of professional language learningcourses.
In that case, the search can be performedon technical texts from the company.WWWDBLocal FilesMailsSmart SearchEngineRequestsResults Aggregated ResultsRequestCommunityManagement ToolInterestingresultsCommunitydatabasesRequestResultsFigure 7: Correlated use of a content aggregationengine and of a community manager tools.Collaborative technologiesWithin Exills, collaborative technologies are usedto filter information found on the web bycommenting and interacting on it.
At the end of theinteraction process, the tutor will decide whichdocuments will be retained to enrich the content ofthe course.Using collaborative technologies impacts the twokinds of users in several ways.?
First, the students.
Using this tool andcontributing to its content allows the studentcommunity to have access to a veryqualified and annotated text database.?
Second, the tutors.
Tutors can use thecommunity repository in two different ways:first, to get specific and adequate content inorder to generate new exercises or activities;second, to evaluate the level and theunderstanding of the students by analyzingtheir comments on the different documentsposted.Infinite number of possible scenariosThe Exills scenario that is currently available onthe Internet relates to professionals working for aprinting company.
It is just one of many possiblescenarios.
In fact, Exills permits the constructionof an infinite number of scenarios.
This possibilityalso points out the high pedagogical adaptability ofExills which leaves to the tutor the possibility todecide about scenario, content and activities.
In thenext sections we give some examples of otherpossible scenarios that could use Exills as anunderlying framework.SchoolsIn an academic context, it is possible to organizevirtual travel for students, similar to languageexchanges that already exist.
In that, case pupilsfrom two different countries connect at the sametime and organize a virtual tour of their school,their district, their city, they describe their culturalhabits.
In this type of experiment one class playsthe role of the tutor and corrects the language ofthe other class.This kind of experimentation is known as?Tandem?
in the pedagogical domain.
According toseveral studies, this way of learning languages ismore efficient as pupils are more motivated.Life long trainingOne important pedagogical consequence of thenotion of scenario is that it allows users to learnboth a work process and a foreign language.Another scenario, we are currently working on,is targeted to people working at hotels receptiondesk.
This scenario is developed in the frameworkof an eContent European project, Thetis(http://www.thetis-project.org/), which groupstogether a language publisher (Q group3), atraining company specialized in tourism (Grupo3http://www.qgroupplc.com/GDT4) and a research center (Xerox ResearchCentre Europe5).To summarize, while using linguistic technologies,students can process online texts on the fly and canwork on their own documents.
This strengthens thepersonalization aspect of the solution.
Goingforward, using Exills in a professional contextallows students to work on the documents of theirown company.EvaluationExills has been tested in different contexts.
Wetested the current scenario (professional workingfor a printing company) in language schools aswell as in companies.
In all cases we have spenttwo hours beforehand with the tutors to train themwith the concept as well as with virtual reality.Between the training of the tutor and the real testwe allowed one week so that tutors can get familiarwith the environment.
We attended the testing justto help in case of technical problems.
Wedistributed a questionnaire at the end so that userscan immediately provide us with feedback.
Thefeedback was globally highly positive.
Users likethe game aspect, although sometime they wouldprefer a non professional scenario.
Because of thisgame dimension they tend to use the linguistictechnologies more than usual and in particular thecontextual bilingual dictionary look-up.
Thisdemonstrates that the wish to interact combinedwith the impossibility of speaking any otherlanguages, because of the language identifier, pushthem to use linguistic technologies to progress.Teachers like the language identifier as itrelieves them of checking on the language studentsuse.
They report on the fact that correcting on thefly is sometimes difficult because the chat is soquick between participants.
In any case they dohave the possibility of correcting any studentproduction afterwards as everything is stored onthe server.The other context where we tested Exills iswithin classrooms.
In that case users wereteenagers from age 13 to 14.
This type ofpopulation is obviously very comfortable withvirtual reality and the game aspect.
Again theyenjoy very much the fact that they learn a languagewhile playing a game, and again they madeextensive use of the linguistic technologies to beable to write sentences.
School teachers wereimpressed by the fact that their students stayedattentive for the entire course.
This should4http://www.grupogdt.com/superior.html5http://www.xrce.xerox.com/probably be balanced by the novelty aspect of thesystem.One thing we have not yet been able to test, butwhich would be very interesting to evaluate, is thedifference in users performance in language afterhaving used Exills.We are now working with a research team ofspecialists in pedagogical issue to define amethodology that could measure this performance.ConclusionTo summarize, Exills integrates virtual reality,linguistic, collaborative and smart searchtechnologies into a true e-learning solution that canbe used both synchronously and asynchronously.Thanks to this technology integration Exillsallows:?
Students to benefit from the interest?spotential for interaction, , to have acontrolled and efficient access to theinformation on the Internet, to learn bythemselves at their own rhythm.?
Tutors to get support in supervising theirstudents.?
Learning companies to offer courses basedon a new concept (virtual reality andlinguistic technologies) instead of justputting classical lessons on the web.?
End-user companies to have a coursecompletely customized to their needs, theirworking environment and their terminology.Exills is a true e-learning solution created to takeadvantage of the web.
By taking advantage of theinteraction, Exills escapes the drawbacks of manye-learning solutions such as: the strenuousness ofreading notices, the impression for students ofbeing left to their own devices, or the temptation togive up the course.
This is made possible because:?
Virtual reality induces a cognitive contextfor the students and pushes them to interact.?
Smart search technologies allow one getinformation, texts and documents from theInternet or specialized databases related to aspecific subject matching the language levelof the student.?
Collaborative technologies allow the sharingof information gathered on the Internetbetween students and the provision ofadequate content to the tutor to create newexercises or lessons almost on the fly.?
Linguistic tools provide autonomy tostudents by showing them concepts, givethem assistance to understand wordmeanings or different senses within aparticular context by presenting variousexamples, to provide feedback for theirproduction (in the chat as well as duringexercises or even free activities).Clearly Exills would benefit from adding newtechnologies and in particular speech technologies.With speech technologies, students would be ableto interact via voice, to record themselves and tocompare their own oral production to a model.Finally, the linguistic technologiespresented in this paper could also be used toprovide more functionality.
For instance,morphology and tagging could be used in order toautomatically create online filling-in-the-blanktype of exercise from any text found on theInternet: The process is quite similar to theexercises generator framework but thefunctionalities provided to the student are fewer:given a text and an exercise pattern, the exercise isgenerated just for her/him.
This exercise is thencorrected automatically using pattern matching,morphology or spellchecker.Part of these ideas, especially the speechcomponents6, will now be implemented in theframework of Thetis, the on-going Europeanproject mentioned before.ReferencesChomsky N., .
Aspects of the Theory of Syntax.Cambridge: The MIT Press, 1965.Baudit, Apprendre ?
deux.
?tudes psychosociales desituations dyadiques, PUF, 1998.
Paris.Bayer V., Farah J., Apprentissage des langues enTandem sur Internet, ELA, n?113, pp.73-78, 1999.Bergholz A., Experiences with the knowledge Pump,ISIC 2002: Information Needs, Seeking & Use,September 2002, Lisbon.Brun C., Parmentier T., Sandor A., Segond F., Lesoutils de TAL au service de la e-formation inMultilinguisme et le traitement de l'information,Fr?d?rique Segond Ed., Herm?s 2002, pp.
223-251Chidlovskii B., Glance N., Grasso A., Collaborative Re-ranking of Search Results, Proc.
AAAI-2000Workshop on AI for Web Search, July 2000, Austin.Kashny M., Les usages des Technologies d'Informationet de Communication par des enseignants dans undispositif de formation tutor?e en langues vivantes?trang?res.
Une approche ergonomique.
Th?seUniversit?
Pierre Mend?s France, 2001, Grenoble.6This will be done using the Wimba technologyhttp://www.wimba.com/index.phpKindley, R., Scenario-Based E-Learning: A StepBeyond Traditional E-Learning,http://www.learningcircuits.com/2002/may2002/kindley.htmlLeacok C., Chodorow M., Miller G., ?Using corpusstatistics and WordNet relations for senseidentification, Computational Linguistics, 24(1):147--166, Mars 1998.Paulsen, J.
(2001-section 4).
"Authentic Online TargetLanguage Reference Resources."
New Era Trendsand  Technologies in Foreign Language Learning: AnAnnotated Bibliography - Interactive MultimediaElectronic Journal of  Computer-EnhancedLearning, April 2001, Wake Forest University.Puren, C. Histoire des m?thodologies de l'enseignementdes langues, , Cl?
International, Nathan, 1988, Paris.
