Sentential Structure and Discourse ParsingLivia Polanyi, Chris Culy, Martin van den Berg, Gian Lorenzo Thione, David Ahn1FX Palo Alto Laboratory3400 Hillview Ave, Bldg.
4Palo Alto, CA 94304{polanyi|culy|vdberg|thione}@fxpal.com, ahn@science.uva.nlAbstract1In this paper, we describe how the LIDASSystem (Linguistic Discourse Analysis Sys-tem), a discourse parser built as an implemen-tation of the Unified Linguistic DiscourseModel (U-LDM) uses information from sen-tential syntax and semantics along with lexicalsemantic information to build the Open RightDiscourse Parse Tree (DPT) that serves as arepresentation of the structure of the discourse(Polanyi et al, 2004; Thione 2004a,b).
Morespecifically, we discuss how discourse seg-mentation, sentence-level discourse parsing,and text-level discourse parsing depend on therelationship between sentential syntax and dis-course.
Specific discourse rules that use syn-tactic information are used to identify possibleattachment points and attachment relations foreach Basic Discourse Unit to the DPT.1 IntroductionIn this paper, we describe discourse parsing underthe Unified Linguistic Discourse Model (U-LDM)(Polanyi et al 2004).
In particular, we describe therelationship between the output of sentential pars-ing and discourse processing.The goal of discourse parsing under the U-LDMis to assign a proper semantic interpretation toevery utterance in a text.
In order to do so, themodel constructs a structural representation of rela-tions among the discourse segments that constitutea text.
This representation is realized as a Dis-course Parse Tree (DPT).
Incoming discourse ut-terances are matched with the informational con-text needed for interpretation, and attached tonodes on the right edge of the tree.1 Current address:Language and Inference Technology Group,Informatics InstituteKruislaan 4031098 SJ Amsterdam, The Netherlands1.1 Discourse Parse TreeThe U-LDM builds upon the insights and mecha-nisms of the Linguistic Discourse Model (LDM)(Polanyi 1988).
The DPT specifies which segmentsare coordinated to one another (bear a similar rela-tionship to a common higher order construct),which are subordinated to other constituents (givemore information about entities or situations de-scribed in that constituent, or, alternatively, inter-rupt the flow of the discourse to interject unrelatedinformation), and which are related as constituentsof logical, language specific, rhetorical, genre spe-cific or interactional structures (n-ary relations).Importantly, the representation identifies whichconstituents are available for continuation at anymoment in the development of a text and which areno longer structurally accessible.1.2 Discourse ParsingWhile full understanding of the meaning of con-stituent utterances, world knowledge, inferenceand complex reasoning are needed to create thecorrect Discourse Parse Tree to represent the struc-ture of discourse under the LDM, in developing theU-LDM, it became apparent that most of the in-formation needed to assign structural relations to atext can be recovered from relating lexical, syntac-tic and semantic information in constituent sen-tences to information available at nodes on theDPT.
Largely formal methods involving manipu-lating information in lexical ontologies and theoutput of sentential syntactic and semantic analysisare sufficient to account for most cases of dis-course continuity, and give rise to only limitedambiguity in most other cases.2 The assignment ofcorrect temporal, personal and spatial interpreta-tion to utterances, which relies in large part on therelative location of referential expression and their2 Complex default logic based reasoning as in Struc-tured Discourse Representation Theory (Asher 1993;Asher and Lascarides 2003), speculations about the in-tentions or beliefs of speakers (as in Grosz and Sidner(1986)), or the intricate node labeling exercises familiarfrom Rhetorical Structure Theory (Mann and Thompson1988; Marcu 1999, 2000) are not necessary.referents in the DPT representation of the structureof the discourse, can then often be recovered.
Froma computational point of view, this is good news.Parsing consists of the following steps for everysentence of the discourse.1.
The sentence is parsed by a sentence levelparser, in our case the LFG-based Xerox Lin-guistic Environment (XLE).2.
The sentence is broken up in discourse relevantsegment based on the syntactic informationfrom the sentence parser.3.
The segments are recombined into one or moresmall discourse trees, called Basic DiscourseUnit (BDU) trees, representing the discoursestructure of the sentence.4.
The BDU trees corresponding to the sentenceare each attached to the DPT tree.3In the remainder of this paper, we will describehow the LIDAS System (Linguistic DiscourseAnalysis System), a discourse parser built as animplementation of the U-LDM, uses informationfrom sentential syntax and semantics along withlexical semantic information to build up the struc-tural representation of source texts4.
Specifically,we will discuss discourse segmentation, sentence-level discourse parsing, and text-level discourseparsing?phases of the discourse parsing processthat depend on the relationship between sententialsyntax and discourse.2 Discourse Segments and Basic DiscourseUnitsU-LDM discourse segmentation is based on thesyntactic reflexes of the semantic content of thelinguistic phenomena making up discourse.
Sinceelementary discourse units must be identified tobuild up discourse structure recursively, discoursesegments under the U-LDM are identified as thesyntactic units that encode a minimum unit of dis-course function and/or meaning that must be inter-preted relative to a set of contexts to be under-stood.
Minimal Functional units include greetings,connectives, discourse PUSH/POP markers andother ?cue phrases?
that connect or modify contentsegments.
Minimal meaning units are units thatexpress information about not more than one event,3 If a sentence is sufficiently complex, it may consistof two or more completely different independent dis-course units.
Such cases are treated as if the two parts ofthe sentence were really two different sentences.
Oneconsequence of this is that a syntactic coordination oftwo sentences may correspond to a subordination in theDPT, because they are treated independently.4 The LiveTree environment for discourse parsing isdescribed in detail in Thione 2004b.event-type or state of affairs in a possible world.Roughly speaking they are ?elementary proposi-tions?
or ?event-type predicates?
corresponding in(neo-) Davidsonian semantics to an elementarystatement that contains at most one event-quantifier.
Structurally, a minimum meaning unitdoes not contain a proper subpart that itself com-municates content and has a syntactic correlate thatcan stand on its own.Under the U-LDM, segments can be discontinu-ous (if there is overt material on both sides of anintervening segment) or fragmentary.
A singleword answer to a question is a complete segment,whereas the same word uttered in an incompleteand unrecoverable phrase is a fragment.The U-LDM defines segmentation in purely sen-tence syntactic terms.
However, the choices ofdefinitions are motivated by semantic considera-tions.
For example, since auxiliaries and modals donot refer to events distinctly from the main verb,they do not form segments separate from the corre-sponding main verbs.
By the same reasoning, othermodal constructions that involve infinitives (e.g.have to, ought to, etc.)
also constitute a singlesegment with their complements as do Cleft con-structions, despite the presence of two verbs.7 Onthe other hand, Equi verbs (e.g., try, persuade) andRaising verbs (e.g., seem, believe, etc) form sepa-rate BDUs from their verbal complements, sinceboth eventualities can be continued.
In contrast,even though event nominals, including gerunds,refer to eventualities (possibly) distinct from theverbs of which they are arguments or adjuncts,5 For example, ?Chris served the chapter | as SocialChairman?6 For example: ?Finally, | the audio is summarized.
?7 For example: ?It is segmentation that we are dis-cussing.
?Content segments(BDUs)Simple clauses, Subordinateclauses and participial phrases,Secondary predications,5 Inter-polations (e.g.
parentheticals,appositives, interruptions, etc.
),Fragments (e.g.
section head-ings, bullet items, etc.
)Operator segments Conjunctions that conjoin seg-ments, Discourse operators(e.g.
?scene-setting?
preposedmodifiers)6Discourse connec-tivesTable 1: Examples BDU and Operator Seg-ments.those eventualities can not (easily) be continuedand therefore are not segments.8The U-LDM, in contrast to other discourse theo-ries, has a fine-grained taxonomy of minimal units.The most prominent distinction of discourse seg-ments is between Basic Discourse Units (BDUs)and Operator segments (see Table 1).
BDUs aresegments realized in a linguistic utterance that canindependently provide the context for segmentslater in the discourse.
Operator segments can notdo so, they can only provide context for segmentsin their scope.In the following section, we explain more fullyhow sentence syntax is used to segment sentencesinto discourse segments.2.1 The role of the XLE in discourse segmen-tationDividing a text into discourse segments beginsby applying a sentence breaking algorithm to de-termine the tokens to be segmented.
These tokensare normally complete sentences, but may also befragments in some cases such as titles or ellipticalphrases such as ?Yes?.
The tokens are processedby a discourse segmenter.
After the segmenter hascompleted its work, segments are passed to a U-LDM BDU-Tree parser, which constructs one ormore BDU-Trees from the BDUs identified in eachsentence.The LIDAS segmenter first sends the inputchunk to be parsed by the Xerox Linguistic Envi-ronment parser (XLE) (Maxwell and Kaplan1989).
The XLE is a robust Lexical FunctionalGrammar (LFG) parser.
The XLE tries to parse theinput, and returns either a packed representation ofall possible parses or the most probable parse asselected by its stochastic disambiguation compo-nent (Riezler et al 2002).
If the XLE can not find aparse of the input as a complete sentence it tries toconstruct a sequence of partially parsed fragments.9The LIDAS segmenter segments the most probableparse and, as a backup, the first parse from thepacked representation, if the first and the mostprobable parse differ.8 Note that the contrast between modal verbs on theone hand and Raising and Equi verbs on the otherclearly shows that the surface form of a phrase (e.g., theinfinitival complements) is not always sufficient to de-termine segment status.
Similarly, a finite verb is not asufficient indicator of a segment, as seen in the cleftconstructions.
Crucially, and appropriately, we need torefer to the discourse property of potential continuation.9 The XLE has a failure rate (i.e., no parse whatso-ever) of approximately 0.5% on our corpus of technicalreports.The parse information consists of a c(onstituent)structure (essentially a standard parse tree) and af(unctional) structure containing predicate-argument information, modification information,and other grammatical information such as tenseand agreement features.
F-structures make up theprimary source of linguistic information used indiscourse parsing.To identify the discourse segments within thesentence, seven syntactic configurations in c-structure and f-structure are examined.
The rela-tively small set of configurations in Table 2 ac-counts for the full range of discourse segments.According to these segmentation rules, it is pos-sible for a segment to be embedded in anothersegment.
Because on the tree-projection of U-LDM structures terminal nodes represent a con-tiguous textual span, we recombine the two partsof a non-contiguous segment in the BDU-tree (sec-tion 4) and DPT (section 5) using the concatena-tion relation (+).
Concatenated nodes contain thecomplete f-structure information of the completedsegment and are full-fledged BDUs, available forfurther ?anaphoric anchoring?.All segments are returned to the discourse parserin an XML format, which includes the f-structureinformation as well as the textual spans for eachsentential segment.3 Discourse ParsingThe next step after segmentation is combining thesegments into a BDU-tree according to the rules ofdiscourse parsing, resulting in a discourse tree rep-resenting the sentence.
After that, the BDU-tree is10 F-structures with SUBJ (subject) attributes are con-sidered possible discourse segments since they typicallyencode an eventuality.
However, because they do notintroduce independent anchor points for future attach-ment, the f-structures corresponding to modal and auxil-iary verbs are excluded.Content SegmentsCertain F-structures with subjects10FragmentsParentheticalsHeadersSyntactic coordination (except conjunct itself)Operator segmentsConjuncts in coordinationInitial comma separated modifiersSubordinating conjunctionsTable 2.
Segment classification configura-tions.combined with the Discourse Parse Tree, againaccording to the discourse parsing rules.In discourse parsing, units of discourse are at-tached to an emergent discourse tree.
Attachmentalways takes place on the right edge of the tree.The parser has to make two decisions: what unit toattach to and what relationship obtains between theincoming unit and the selected attachment site.
Thetypes of evidence are used to determine this in-clude:?
syntactic informationo subordinate/complement relations, parallelsyntactic structure, topic/focus and centeringinformation, syntactic status of re-used lex-emes, preposed adverbial constituents, etc.?
lexical informationo Information from lexical ontology: re-use ofsame lexeme, synonym/antonym, hypernym,participation in the same lexical frame aswell as specific discourse connectives tem-poral and adverbial connectives indicatingset or sub-set membership of any type forexample, specifically, alternatively11.o Modal information: realis status, modality,genericity, tense, aspect, point of view12),?
Structural information of both the local at-tachment point and of the BDU-tree?
Presence of constituents of incomplete n-aryconstructions on the right edgeo questions, initial greetings, genre-internalunits such as sections and sub-sections, etc.The combined weight of the evidence determinesthe attachment point and the attachment relation.Interestingly, the weight given to each type of in-formation is different for attachment site selectionand relationship determination.
Lexical ontologicalinformation, for example, is generally more impor-tant in determining site, while semantic, syntacticand lexical ?cue?
information is more relevant indetermining relationship.In Polanyi et al 2004, a small set of robust rulesis given for determining the attachment site andrelationship of an incoming BDU-tree to the exist-ing parse tree of the discourse.
In the present pa-per, which has as its focus understanding the rela-tionship of sentential syntax to discourse structure,we concentrate on describing some fundamental11 These expressions are used as input to specificlexically driven rules that indicate language or genrespecific binary relations between BDUs as suggested byWebber, Joshi and colleagues in their work on D-LTAGs.
(Webber and Joshi, 1998; Webber, Knott andJoshi, 1999; Webber, Knott, Stone and Joshi 1999.
)12 See discussion Wiebe, 1994.aspects of the relationship between the sententialsyntactic structure of an incoming sentence and itscorresponding sentential discourse structure.3.1 The Sentential Syntax - Discourse Struc-ture InterfaceIn discourse parsing with LIDAS, the output ofthe XLE parser supplies functional constraints androles for syntactic structures.
The syntactic struc-ture of a sentence accounts for the discourse-relevant relationships between segments within asentence.
LIDAS grammars exploit this informa-tion by mapping syntactic relations onto discourserelations.
The LIDAS grammar formalism permitsthe parser to leverage the XLE?s output by (1)checking positive or negative constraints (equalityor inequality operators) (2) recursively searching f-structures for specified attributes (* and ?
wild-cards), (3) enforcing dependent constraints,13 and(4) using Boolean connectives to combine con-straints.
(5) applying constraints universally or ex-istentially to the set of matching f-structures.
WhileLIDAS grammar rules can incorporate constraintsthat operate on all supported types of linguisticevidence, Table 3 gives three examples of rulesthat specify attachments based on the syntactic re-lationship between constituents.1.BDU-1,BDU-2:BDU-1/phi = BDU-2/ADJUNCT/link;?
Right-Subordination.2.BDU-1,BDU-2:BDU-1/*/ADJUNCT/link = BDU-2/phi;?
Subordination.3.BDU-1,BDU-2:BDU-1/*/{XCOMP|COMP|COMP-EX}/link= BDU-2/phi;?
Context.Table 3: Rules based on syntactic relationship.Rule 1 captures one general case for preposedmodifiers.
Prepositional and adverbial phrases,often temporal modifiers, that precede the mainclause they modify can either elaborate on themain clause or modify the context in which themain clause is interpreted.
Lexical information isused to distinguish among different types of modi-fiers.
Rule 2 expresses the general case of subordi-nate adjunct clauses and shows that the syntax for13 For example, the following constraints show a de-pendency between (1) and (3),(1) BDU-1/(*)/ADJUNCT/link = BDU-2/phi;(2) BDU-2/ADJUNCT-TYPE = ?relative?
;(3) $1/SPEC/DET/DET-TYPE = "indef";One or more sub-f-structures that match the wildcardin the first constraint are tested in the third constraint.This constraint is part of a rule of sentential discoursesyntax used to identify non-restrictive relative clauses.LIDAS?
discourse rules allows for recursive searchover f-structures by seeking adjunct phrases match-ing the incoming BDU anywhere within the f-structure of the attachment point.
Rule 3, whichshows a compact syntax for disjunctive constraint,builds a sentence level discourse relation, the Con-text Binary, that forms a complex context unitfrom its child constituents.
Context Binaries are thegeneral case for clausal complementizers.In the next section, we discuss one of the basicdiscourse parsing rules.3.2 Discourse SubordinationWe will assume the following extended hierarchyof grammatical functions:14 PRED > SUBJ > OBJ> COMP > ADJUNCT > SPEC.15 Given this hier-archy we propose as a general principle of dis-course construction that promotion in the hierar-chy means demotion in the discourse.
For exam-ple, if the SUBJ of the incoming unit of discourserefers to the same entity16 as OBJ at the attachmentnode, then the relationship between them will be asubordination.
In general, if an expression withgrammatical function GF in a BDU B refers to thesame (or a subcase of the same) entity as an ex-pression with grammatical function GF?
in an ac-cessible antecedent BDU A, where GF > GF?, thenB will be attached as a subordinate structure to Aon the DPT.
This principle is expressed as a rule inthe grammar that fires if it is not superseded byother rules.
For example, the Narrative rule, whichcoordinates event clauses, takes precedence overthe Discourse Demotion Rule.If the grammatical function hierarchy rule doesnot apply, but the BDU refers to a subclass17 of theantecedent BDU, there is evidence for a subordina-tion relation.
For example, if the subject of theBDU stands in a part-of relationship with the sub-ject of the antecedent BDU, we can conclude thatthe relationship is a subordination.14 PRED denotes the tensed verb.
It plays a role in thefollowing discussion because verbs can be nominalized.15 For the purposes of this hierarchy, grammaticalfunction COMP includes the features COMP-EX andXCOMP.
An element inside an expression witha grammatical function GF is itself in that position withrespect to the elements that are not in that expression,although a separate ordering might exist between ele-ments within the same expression.
C.f.
Obliquenesscommand in HPSG (Pollard and Sag, 1994).16 In LIDAS, no reference resolution is done.
Identityof reference is approximated using lexical semantics.17 The notion of subcase as used here covers a num-ber of different notions.
An expression e is a subcase off if (1) e is a set that is a subset of f, (2) e is a subtype off, or (3) e is a part of f, among other relations.Table 4 gives the interaction of this rule with thehierarchy rule and the resulting relationships: Gdenotes whether a shift in the grammatical functionhierarchy occurred, and L whether the shifted ele-ment refers to the same entity, part of that entity orto an entity that is larger.
If more than one suchexpression can be found, we consider the expres-sion in the incoming unit with the highest gram-matical function.G+ G0 G-L+  S/C18 C SL0 S C N/AL- S S N/ATable 4.
Interactions of the hierarchyand subcase rules.The table is read as follows: take the expressions inthe incoming unit that have a relationship with anexpression in the attachment point.
Let e be theexpression among these that has the highest gram-matical function, and f be the corresponding ex-pression in the attachment point.
If the grammati-cal function of e is higher than that of f, we writeG+, if it is the same G0, if it is lower G-.
Similarly,if e is a supercase of f, we write L+, if e and f referto the same entity L0, and if e is a subcase of f, L-.For example1.
U1: The man was wearing a coat.U2: The Burberry looked brand new.In this case we notice that the words coat andBurberry are such that L<coat, Burberry> = L-and we also notice that Burberry gets promoted tothe subject of the incoming unit, while coat wasthe direct object of U1.
Therefore G<coat, Bur-berry> = G+.
From Table 4 we correctly identifythat U2 does indeed subordinate on U1.Both L- and G+ give evidence for discourse sub-ordination.
Grammatical function demotion G- is aless clear case.19 Some mixed combinations sug-gest discourse coordination (as for the preservationcase <L0 , G0>) while others contribute too little18 Semantics would help to disambiguate this case.
Ifthe antecedent f is more specific than the anaphoricelement e, two cases are possible.
Either e is used as adefinite description referring to the same entity as f, inwhich case the relation is a coordination, or e is used todenote a larger class of entities than f, in which therela-tion is likely to be a subordination.19 As is understanding precisely what is involvedfrom a discourse relation point of view with complex,mixed promotion/demotion phenomena (from the sub-ject of an XCOMP to the adjunct of an OBJ, for exam-ple)significant information to independently determinethe discourse attachment (N/A cases).
In thosecases, evidence from other rules in the grammardetermines the result.4  BDU-TreesIdentifying the relationship of a BDU to the dis-course in which it occurs is a complex parsingprocess involving lexical, semantic, structural andsyntactic information.
The first step in understand-ing the relationship of a given BDU to the extra-sentential discourse context is to understand therole a BDU plays within the sentence in which itoccurs.
As a first step of constructing a discourseparse-tree of the sentence, the XLE parse and sen-tential discourse rules are used to identify relation-ships between the BDUs within the sentence re-sulting in one or more BDU-trees.
These smallsentence-level discourse trees consist of one mainclause and its subordinated clauses or preposedmodifiers.20The root node of a BDU-tree represents the non-subordinated material (often referred to as activematerial) within that BDU-tree, including at leastthe information of the main clause.
The projectionof the root node on the active leaves is referred toas the M-BDU (Main BDU).
Only syntactic infor-mation from the M-BDU is used to attached theBDU-tree to the DPT.
In general, a sentence yieldsas many BDU-trees as top-level coordinatedclauses.Consider, Example 2, a sentence taken from ourcorpus of Technical Reports:2.
As a consequence, any hypertext link followedopened a new browser window, which we think ofas a "Rabbit Hole" because the new window indi-cates to users that they are no longer navigating in-side the slideshow, but are instead navigating theWeb.The U-LDM segmentation of this sentence:As a consequence | any hypertext link | followed |opened a new browser window | which we think of as a"Rabbit Hole" | because | the new window indicates tousers | that they | are no longer navigating inside theslideshow | but | are instead navigating the Web.20 BDU-trees are very similar to the D-LTAG dis-course segments (D-LDSs).
However, BDU-trees in-clude subordinated material, so they are typically largerthan D-LDSs.
Furthermore, because U-LDM sentenceand discourse grammars are different, two BDU-treesmay stand in a coordinated relationship in sentencegrammar and be subordinated on the discourse level (cf.example 1).For compound sentences, members of the top-level coordinate structures are attached independ-ently, reflecting the fact that top-level coordinatedclauses can escape the boundaries of the sentencewhen attaching to the main discourse structure.
Forexample, the discourse parse of the following pas-sage, illustrated in Example 3, consists of two sen-tences, five segments, four BDUs and three BDU-Trees that eventually form one DPT.3.
S1: B1: The man soaked himself in the water.S2: B2: It was warm and soothing B3 and hedecided to linger a little longer than usual.Despite the apparent syntactic coordination be-tween the two main clauses, the two BDU-Trees inS2 show the independence of BDU-Tree/DPT at-tachments.
B1 describes a punctual event on amain story line.
B3 describes the next event.
Thesemantic and aspectual information of the verb tosoak in BDU-1 and of the copula in BDU-2 com-municates a switch from an event-line to an em-bedded elaboration.
The syntactic promotion ofwater from object of the preposition in the adjunctphrase in the water to the subject (through ana-phoric reference) in the next segment indicates dis-course subordination.
Given L0<water, it> andG+<ADJUNCT/OBJ/PRED, SUBJ/PRED>, wefind from table X, <L0 ,G+> ?
S. As a conse-quence, B2 is subordinated to B1.
In the DPT, B3is coordinated with B1 at a point above B2, despitebeing syntactically coordinated to it at the senten-tial level.5 Global Discourse ConstructionBDU-trees are attached to the DPT of the entirediscourse as single units by computing the rela-tionship between their M-BDUs and the accessiblenodes aligned along the right edge of the DPT.Rules of discourse attachment that include thosediscussed for BDU construction as well as othergenre and structural level rules are used in globalDPT construction.The parsing process at the Discourse Parse Tree(DPT) level works as follows.
Once BDU-Treeshave been constructed and are ready to be attachedto the DPT, each node along the right edge is ex-amined, and, through a set of discourse rules, anordered set of active Discourse Constituent Units(DCUs) is produced, representing possible attach-ment points.21 This set can then be pruned of its n21 Lexical information is the main source of evidencein attachment site determination while other sourcescontribute to a lesser degree.
The opposite is true fordetermining attachment relationslowest scoring constituents, according to a presetthreshold or other criteria.ExampleOur group is developing new techniques for helpingmanage information for enhanced collaboration.
Weexplore solutions for seamlessly connecting people totheir personal and shared resources.
Our solutions in-clude services for contextual and proactive informationaccess, personalized and collaborative office appli-ances, collaborative annotation, and symbolic, statisti-cal, and hybrid processing of natural language.Our team includes researchers with diverse back-grounds including: ubiquitous computing, computer-supported collaboration, HCI, IR , and NLP.Segmented Text1.
Our group is developing new techniques for helping2.
manage information for enhanced collaboration.3.
We explore solutions for seamlessly connectingpeople to their personal and shared resources.4.
Our solutions include services for contextual andproactive information access, personalized and col-laborative office appliances, collaborative annota-tion, and symbolic, statistical, and hybrid process-ing of natural language.5.
Our team includes researchers with diverse back-grounds6.
including:7. ubiquitous computing, computer-supported col-laboration, HCI, IR , and NLP.Rules1-2 Intrasentential XCOMPS --> CXCX(1,2)-3 Demotion 2[ Pres.
Progressive to Simple Pre-sent][ Our group --> We ][ Same Verb Class ] --> S3-4 Promotion[Solutions from OBJ to SUBJ] --> S5-6 Relative Adjunct with Null Deter-miner --> S6-7 Colon + OBJ linked to NP segment--> CXCX(1,2)-5 Synonym Subjects, SameTense --> C22Table 5.
Analyzed Webpage ExampleIn the second stage, attachment rules are checkedagainst possible attachment sites.
Rules that firesuccessfully attach the BDU-Tree to the DPT at thechosen site with the relationship specified by therule.
Local semantic, lexical and syntactic informa-tion is then percolated into the parent DCU.
If mul-tiple attachments at different sites are possible,22 Discourse parsing is not unambiguous and differentanalyses may apply.
So, here the same subject, changein progressive feature, and different verb class, whichalso apply would create an S. Future research is neededto understand precisely which rules take precedence.ambiguous parses are generated; less preferred at-tachments are discarded and the remaining attach-ment choices generate valid parse trees.Once a BDU-tree has been attached, its leavesbecome terminal nodes of the DPT and nodes onits right edge are accessible for continuation andmay serve as contextual anchors for subsequentsentences.
Table 5 shows an example text takenfrom the FXPAL Webpage describing our researchgroup, a segmentation of the text and the DPT con-structed following the rules.
Figure 1 gives a s-creenshot of the resulting tree.Figure 1: Tree of Analyzed Webpage Example6 Comparison with D-LTAGLIDAS is a purely symbolic discourse parser mostsimilar to the D-LTAG parser described in (Forbeset.
al.
2003).
The overall structures of the LIDASand D-LTAG parsers are almost identical.
Thereare a number of apparently significant differencesbetween the underlying theories although some ofthese may turn out to be notational variants aftermore extensive analysis.An important difference between D-LTAG andU-LDM derives from the fundamental question ofsegmentation; D-LTAG segments are larger thanour segments, corresponding more or less to BDU-trees (but cf.
footnote 20).
In D-LTAG, becauseonly one grammar formalism governs both dis-course and sentence level parsing, continuation canalso take place on parts of segments as defined bysentence-level syntactic relations.
Under the U-LDM, which employs independent sentential anddiscourse grammars, only segments are potentialanchors for continuation.
Not only because we usean external syntactic parser as an oracle that in-forms segment attachment on the BDU-tree, butmore importantly because sentential syntax can beoverridden by discourse syntax in some cases.Another basic difference between the two ap-proaches is that D-LTAG builds its initial and aux-iliary trees around connectives.
Every discourserelation is expressed by a, possibly empty, connec-tive.
In U-LDM, connectives give evidence aboutthe possible discourse relations, as do other partsof the sentence, but they do not solely determinediscourse relation.
We can thus account correctlyfor cases in which the wrong connective is selectedto express a semantic relationship among seg-ments.Lastly, our parser is meant to be incremental atthe discourse level, whereas the D-LTAG parserappears to operate on the discourse as a whole.
237 ConclusionIn this paper we described a novel approach to dis-course segmentation and discourse structure analy-sis that unifies sentential syntax with discoursestructure and argued that most of the informationneeded to assign a structural description to a text isavailable from sentential syntactic parsing, senten-tial semantic analysis and relationships amongwords captured in a lexical ontology such asWordNet.
The U-LDM discourse rules and parsingstrategies presented here are a first step.
We havetested out these rules in analyzing a corpus of over300 Technical Reports that have been summarizedunder the PALSUMM System that operates on topof LIDAS.
(Polanyi et al2004; Thione et al2004)Much work remains to be done.
Understanding thecomplex inter-relationships between rules is a for-midable task.
Critically important, too, is to unifythe semantically motivated structural analyses pre-sented here with an explicit S-DRT type formalsemantic account of discourse semantics.
How-ever, we believe that the results presented here rep-resent an important advance in understanding thenature of natural language texts.8 ReferencesNicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Objects inEnglish: A Philosophical Semantics for Natural Lan-guage Metaphysics.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.Nicholas Asher and Alex Lascarides.
2003.
Logics ofConversation.
Cambridge University Press.Katherine Forbes, Eleni Miltsakaki, Rashmi Prasad,Anoop Sarkar, Aravind Joshi and Bonnie Webber.2003.
D-LTAG System - Discourse Parsing with aLexicalized Tree-Adjoining Grammar, Journal ofLanguage, Logic and Information, 12(3).Barbara Grosz and Candace Sidner.
1986.
Attention,Intention and the Structure of Discourse.
Computa-tional Linguistics 12:175-204.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.
1988.
Rhe-torical Structure Theory: Towards a Functional The-ory of Text Organization.
Text 8(3)243-281.23 In the current LIDAS implementation, we do notrepresent ambiguity directly, but implement a greedyparsing algorithm with backtracking.
The non-localityof the D-LTAG parser as described in Forbes et.
al.2003 may likewise be a consequence of their currentimplementation.Daniel Marcu.
1999.
Discourse trees are good indicatorsof importance in text.
In Advances in Automatic TextSummarization.
I. Mani and Mark Maybury (eds),123-136, The MIT Press.Daniel Marcu.
2000.
The Theory and Practice of Dis-course Parsing and Summarization.
The MIT Press.Cambridge, MA.John Maxwell and Ronald M. Kaplan.
1989.
An over-view of disjunctive constraint satisfaction.
In Pro-ceedings of the International Workshop on ParsingTechnologies, Pittsburgh, PA.Livia Polanyi.
1988.
A Formal Model of DiscourseStructure.
Journal of Pragmatics 12: 601-639.Livia Polanyi.
2004.
A Rule-based Approach to Dis-course Parsing.
In Proceedings of SIGDIAL ?04.Boston MA.Stefan Riezler, Tracy H. King, Ronald M. Kaplan,Richard Crouch, John T. Maxwell, and Mark John-son.
2002.
Parsing the Wall Street Journal using aLexical-Functional Grammar and discriminative es-timation techniques.
In Proceedings of the 40th An-nual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL?02), Philadelphia, PA.Stefan Riezler, Tracy H. King, Richard Crouch, andAnnie Zaenen.
2003.
Statistical Sentence Condensa-tion using Ambiguity Packing and Stochastic Disam-biguation Methods for Lexical-Functional Grammar.In Proceedings of HLT-NAACL'03, Edmonton, Can-ada.Radu Soricut and Daniel Marcu.
2003.
Sentence LevelDiscourse Parsing using Syntactic and Lexical In-formation.
In Proceedings of HLT/NAACL?03, May27-June 1, Edmonton, CanadaThione, Gian Lorenzo, Martin van den Berg, Chris Culyand Livia Polanyi.
2004a.
Hybrid Text Summariza-tion: Combining external relevance measures withStructural Analysis.
Proceedings ACL WorkshopText Summarization Branches Out.
Barcelona.Thione, Gian Lorenzo, Martin van den Berg, Chris Culyand Livia Polanyi.
2004b.
LiveTree: An IntegratedWorkbench for Discourse Processing.
ProceedingsACL Workshop on Discourse Annotation.
Barcelona.Bonnie Webber and Aravind Joshi, 1998.
Anchoring alexicalized tree-adjoining grammar for discourse.COLING/ACL Workshop in Discourse Realtions andDiscourse Markers.
Montreal, Canada.
86-92.Bonnie Webber, Alistair Knott and Aravind Joshi.1999a.
Multiple discourse connectives in a lexical-ized grammar for discourse.
In 3rd Int?l Workshop onComputational Semantics.
Tilburg.
309-325.Bonnie Webber, Alistair Knott, Matthew Stone andAravind Joshi.
1999b.
Discourse Relations: A Struc-tural and Presuppositional Account Using Lexical-ized TAGS.
37th ACL.
College Park, MD.
41-48.Wiebe, Janyce M. 1994.
Tracking point of view innarrative.
Computational Linguistics 20 (2): 233-287.
