Stemming the Qur?anNaglaa ThabetSchool of English Literature, Language and LinguisticsUniversity of NewcastleNewcastle upon Tyne, UK, NE1 7RUn.a.thabet@ncl.ac.ukAbstractIn natural language, a stem is themorphological base of a word to which affixes canbe attached to form derivatives.
Stemming is aprocess of assigning morphological variants ofwords to equivalence classes such that each classcorresponds to a single stem.
Different stemmershave been developed for a wide range of languagesand for a variety of purposes.
Arabic, a highlyinflected language with complex orthography,requires good stemming for effective text analysis.Preliminary investigation indicates that existingapproaches to Arabic stemming fail to provideeffective and accurate equivalence classes whenapplied to a text like the Qur?an written inClassical Arabic.
Therefore, I propose a newstemming approach based on a light stemmingtechnique that uses a transliterated version of theQur?an in western script.1 IntroductionStemming has been widely used in severalfields of natural language processing such as datamining, information retrieval, and multivariateanalysis.
Some applications of multivariateanalysis of text involve the identification of lexicaloccurrences of word stems in a text.
Such lexicalanalysis, in which the frequency of wordoccurrences is significant, cannot be done withoutsome form of stemming.In morphology, variants of words which havesimilar semantic interpretations are considered tobelong to the same stem and to be equivalent forpurposes of text analysis and information retrieval.For this reason, a number of stemming algorithmshave been developed in an attempt to reduce suchmorphological variants of words to their commonstem.Various stemming algorithms for a number oflanguages have been proposed.
The structure ofthese stemmers range from the simplest technique,such as removing suffixes, to a more complicateddesign which uses the morphological structure ofwords to derive a stem.In case of Arabic, several stemming algorithmshave been developed.
The major inadequacy ofexisting systems to stem the Qur?an results fromthe fact that most of them deal with ModernStandard Arabic as their input text; the language ofthe Qur?an is Classical Arabic.
Orthographicvariations and the use of diacritics and glyphs inthe representation of the language of ClassicalArabic increase the difficulty of stemming.
Inmany respects, the Qur?an, with its unique lexiconand orthography requires dedicated attention.Therefore, I have developed a new lightstemmer that uses the Qur?an in westerntransliteration to improve the effectiveness of thestemming of the text.2 Stemming in ArabicArabic belongs to the Semitic family oflanguages, and as such differs from Europeanlanguages morphologically, syntactically andsemantically.
The Arabic language is somewhatdifficult to deal with due to its orthographicvariations and its complex morphological structure.Xu et al provide an overview of the challenges theArabic language creates for information retrieval[10, 11].2.1 Arabic MorphologyThe grammatical system of the Arabiclanguage is based on a root-and-affix structure andis considered as a root-based language.
MostArabic words are morphologically derived from alist of roots, to which many affixes can be attachedto form surface words.
Most of these roots aremade up of three consonants which conveysemantics.
In addition to the different forms of theArabic word that results from the derivational andinflectional process, most prepositions,conjunctions, pronouns, and possession forms areattached to the Arabic surface form.2.2 Arabic OrthographyOrthographic variations are prevalent in Arabic.Vocalized texts make use of diacritics to representshort vowels.
The omission of such diacritics innon-vocalized text gives rise to ambiguity,specifically if words are read out of context.
Otherspelling variations include changing the letter ?
to?
at the end of a word and replacing ?
,?, and ?
withplain ?.
A sense of discrimination and a goodknowledge of grammar and usage are required ifone is to avoid misreading a word.In terms of multivariate analysis of text as wellas information retrieval, the combination of a richmorphology and a pervasively ambiguous writingsystem results in a degree of complexity such thatsome sort of pre-processing and classification isrequired.
Therefore, stemming is very importantfor Arabic text analysis.2.3 Approaches to Arabic StemmingSeveral stemming algorithms for Arabic havebeen proposed based on different principles; eachproduces rather different sets of stemclassifications.
It is possible to evaluate thesestemming algorithms by the accuracy of the resultsthey produce.
Larkey et al gives a good summaryof stemming approaches for the Arabic language[9].
The most common approaches used in Arabicstemming are the light and the root-basedstemmers.Root-based Stemming is based on removing allattached prefixes and suffixes in an attempt toextract the root of a given Arabic surface word.Several morphological analyzers have beendeveloped, e.g.
Buckwalter [3], Khoja and Garside[7] and Darwish [5].Light Stemming is used not to produce thelinguistic root of a given Arabic surface form, butto remove the most frequent suffixes and prefixes.The most common suffixation includes duals andplurals for masculine and feminine, possessiveforms, definite articles, and pronouns.
Several lightstemmers have been developed, all based on suffixand prefix removal and normalization.
Examplesof light stemmers include: Aljlayl & Frieder?sStemmer [2], Darwish?s Al-Stem [6], Chen &Gey?s TREC 2002 Stemmer [4], and Larkey etal.
?s U Mass Stemmer [8, 9].All light stemmers adhere to the same steps ofnormalization and stemming.
The main differenceamong them is the number of prefixes and suffixesremoved from each one.
During the normalizationprocess, all diacritics, punctuation, and glyphs areremoved.
The light stemmers had differentstopword lists consisting of Arabic pronouns,particles and the like removed after minimalnormalization.
Test results of previous researchersas in [2, 8], proved that the light stemmer achievedsuperior performance over the root-based approachsince it reduces sense ambiguity by groupingsemantically related words into the same class.Although light stemming can correctly classifymany variants of words into large stem classes, itcan fail to classify other forms that should gotogether.
For example, broken plurals for nounsand adjectives do not get conflated with theirsingular forms, and past tense verbs do not getconflated with their present tense forms, becausethey retain some affixes and internal differences.3 Stemming the Qur?anMy main objective for stemming the Qur?an isto prepare the text as data for multivariate analysisof the lexical semantics of the Qur?an using self-organizing maps in which words with similarmeanings are placed at the same or neighbouringpoints so that the topological relations among themrepresent degrees of semantic similarity.
This workrequires the construction of vector space models ofthe suras (chapters) of the Qur?an such that eachsura is represented by a vector indicating theoccurrence frequency of variables.
This involvescounting the occurrences of lexical items in theQur?an.
Such a task cannot be done accuratelywithout some sort of stemming of words in the text.The Qur?an has two significant textual features.The first is that the Classical Arabic language inwhich the Qur?an is written has created difficultyin reading and understanding it, even for the Arabsthemselves.
Its lexicon, morphology and grammarare more complicated than Modern StandardArabic.
It, therefore, requires specific attention.The second significant point is the wide use ofvocalization.
Diacritics (,?
,?
?
, ,?
,?
?
, ,?
? )
representingshort vowels are prevalent in the Qur?an.
Everyword, even every letter is marked with a diacritic.The meanings of the words in the Qur?an requirethe use of such diacritical marks; otherwise itbecomes very difficult to comprehend theirmeanings especially when out of context.Vocalized text, in Arabic includes diacritics forshort vowels and other details.
Thus, a word couldhave several meanings when marked with differentdiacritics.
(see Table 1).Word Transliteration Meaning?????
mulk reign?????
malik king?????
malak angel?????
khuluq morals?????
khalq creation?????
amah female slave??????
ummah nationTable 1.
Orthographic variations of wordsFor those reasons stemming the Qur?an is notan easy task.
In principal, the way existing Arabicstemmers are structured indicates that they will notwork reliably on the stemming of the Qur?an.
Mostof the existing stemmers rely on Modern StandardArabic as their input script.
This modern form ofArabic is a simplified form of Classical Arabic.The main differences between both forms are thatModern Standard Arabic has less orthographicvariation, a less complicated lexicon and a moremodern vocabulary.
The following two points arealso significant regarding the use of existingstemmers to stem the Qur?an.First, the root-based algorithm increases wordambiguity.
The root algorithm stems the surfaceform to a base form from which the word variantsare derived.
A major problem with this type ofstemmer is that many word variants are different inmeaning, though they originate from one identicalroot.
For example words like hasib (he thought),hasaba (he counted), and hasab (of noble origin)are all derived from the same root hsb.
Therefore,the over-stemming of the root algorithm results inthe deterioration of the retrieval performance ascompared to the light stemming algorithm.
Asnoted by Khoja [7], another problem that thestemmer faces is that some of the letters thatappear to be affixes are in fact part of the word.Second, the light stemmers perform better thanthe root-based algorithms, though not entirelyefficiently.
All initial steps of the light-basedalgorithms require normalization which involvesthe removal of diacritics.
Thus, if diacritics wereremoved from the words listed in Table 1 above,there would be no other way to indicate thedifference in meaning of all word variants.
Thenormalization technique, though it appears simple,increases ambiguity.
If normalization was appliedto the Qur?an, it would leave the text highlyambiguous.
As the case with root-based algorithms,some of the suffixes and prefixes to be removedusing light stemmers are originally part of the word.Therefore, I propose a new light stemmingapproach that gives better results, particularlywhen applied to a rich vocalized text as the Qur?an.The stemmer is basically a light stemmer toremove prefixes and suffixes and is applied to aversion of the Qur?an transliterated into westernscript.The use of the transliteration is highlysignificant for resolving the problem of diacriticsin the Qur?an.
Given that the transliteration of theQur?an is available in western script, the problemof diacritics is resolved, since in the transliteratedversion of the Qur?an, each diacritic is translatedinto a letter in Roman script.
Thus, the ambiguitythat arises when removing the diacritics from theArabic text is avoided.
So, while the word ??
?could have three different meanings when itappears without diacritics in Arabic, intransliteration each meaningful word has a singlerepresentation.
(see Table 1).Another advantage of using transliteration isavoiding the removal of suffixes and prefixes thatsometimes could be part of the word.
The prefix ?
(pronounced as ?bi?)
is very common in Arabic.This preposition resembles the letter ?
of theArabic alphabet.
Thus, removing this letterindistinguishably would cause ambiguity if theletter is part of a word.
For example, in words as????
(sea), ??????
(proof), the letter ?
is part of theword, whereas, in ?????
(with a pen) the ?
is apreposition.
If the diacritics that are marking theletter ?
were removed, the first letter in each wordwould be exactly the same, though different inpronunciation.
Therfore, stemming the words fromthe prefix ?, in general, would be incorrect.
Whentransliterating the same three words ( ????
, ??????
,????? )
the prefix ?
would be represented as ba (bahr),bu (burhan), and bi (biqalam) respectively.
Theproposed light stemmer would only include ?bi?
asa prefix thus, avoiding removing the otherrepresentations of that letter.
A few stems inArabic begin with ?bi?
; those are added to astopword list to be removed before stemming.
Thesame process would be applied to the otherprefixes to be removed such as ( ??
,?
,?
,?
,?
), (la/li,ka, fa, sa, al).3.1 ImplementationThe stemmer has been developed for thewindows environment in Delphi, an object-oriented programming language which creates agraphical user interface to facilitate thepresentation of its applications.a.
PreprocessingRather than the use of Arabic script, the systemuses a Roman transliteration of the Qur?an which isformatted on the Web as HTML.
This presents aparticular problem that need to be remedied beforethe text can be stemmed.
The problem is that somephonemically important distinctions, i.e.,distinctions that are represented by different graphsin Arabic, are shown using HTML tags; when theHTML files are saved as text, these tags disappear,and the distinctions are lost.
The Arabic phonemes(?
,?
,?
,?
,?
,?
,?)
are represented in the HTMLtransliteration files as underlined (a, t, h, s, d, th, th)respectively.Preprocessing involves (1) stripping out theentire HTML markup, and (2) before doing so,replacing all the above phonemes with thefollowing characters: a^, t^, h^, s^, d^, z^, z*.
Theresult is a pure text file in ASCII codes.b.
Construction of stopword listA stopword list of all the words to be excludedfrom the stemming process was compiled.
The listwas manually constructed using a concordance ofthe Qur?anic lexicon compiled by Abd Al-Baqi [1].It consists of words which begin with the sameletters which compose Arabic prefixes.
Arabicpronouns, prepositions and names of people andplaces were also included in the stopword list.c.
Construction of stemmerThe algorithm for the stemmer is as follows:Step 1.
Prefix StemmingThe program reads individual suras from textfiles, replaces all uppercase letters with lower caseletters and constructs a list of word lists, whereeach word list contains all the words in a singlesura.
It then reads single words from each word listand compares the current word supplied as aparameter to each successive word in the stopwordlist.
If the word is found in the stopword list, it isexcluded from prefix stemming; otherwise itadheres to following procedures:?
Remove prefixes (wa, fa, la, li, lil, bi, ka,sa, s^a, al)?
After stemming, the word is insertedback into the word list.Step 2.
Suffix StemmingSix groups of suffixes are identified rangingfrom one-letter suffixes to six-letter suffixes.
Thesystem starts stemming the words in the word listsfrom the longest prefixes (six-letter prefixes) to thethree-letter prefixes.
Stemming the one and two-letter suffixes causes some ambiguity, since someof the suffixes could sometimes be part of the wordstem.
To resolve this problem, the stemmer sortsthe words alphabetically.
In the sorted list of words,if a given sequence displays a variety of suffixesincluding one and two-letter suffixes, the suffixesare removed and the stem is retained, otherwise theword is left intact.3.2 ResultsPreliminary results for seven long surasselected randomly and representing 6% of theQur?an show that the stemmer achieves anaccuracy of 99.6% for prefix stemming and 97%for suffix stemming.
As the stemmer is being used,some inaccuracies were detected, but investigationshows that they are mainly to do with erroneouslexical items in the transliterated Qur?an.
Anevaluation of the system with accuracy figuresshould be available shortly for the entire Qur?anictext.4   ConclusionStemming is important for a highly inflectedlanguage as Arabic.
Existing Arabic stemmers,though produced effective results in someapplications, failed to provide good stemming forthe Qur?an.
Therefore, I have proposed this newmethod of using transliterated script, which gavegood preliminary results.
Ongoing work on thesystem is focused on improving the accuracy of theresults either by modifying the algorithms orediting the transliteration of the Qur?an.References[1] M.F.
Abd Al-Baqi.
1987.
Al-Ma&jam Al-Mufahras li-alfaz Al-Qur?an Al-Karim.
DarAl-hadith, Cairo.
[2] M. Aljlayl and O. Frieder.
2002.
On ArabicSearch: Improving the retrieval effectivenessvia a light stemming approach.
InProceedings of CIKM?02, VA, USA.
[3] T. Buckwalter.
2002.
Buckwalter ArabicMorphological Analyzer Version 1.0.http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatologEntry.jsp?catologId=LDC2002L49.
[4] A. Chen and F. Gey.
2002.
Building anArabic stemmer for information retrieval.
InProceedings of TREC 2002, Gaithersburg,Maryland.
[5] K. Darwish.
An Arabic  Morphologicalanalyzer.http://www.glue.umd.edu/~Kareem/research/[6] K. Darwish and D. Oard.
2002.
CLIRExperiments at Maryland for TREC-2002:Evidence combination for Arabic-EnglishRetrieval.
In Proceedings of TREC 2002,Gaithersburg, Maryland.
[7] S. Khoja and R. Garside.
1999.
StemmingArabic text.
Computing Department,Lancaster University, Lancaster.http://www.comp.lancs.ac.uk/computing/users/khoja/stemmer.ps[8] L. S. Larkey and M. E. Connell.
2001.Arabic information retrieval at UMass.
InProceedings of  TREC 2001, Gaithersburg:NIST, 2001.
[9] L. S. Larkey, L. Ballesteros and M.E.Connell.2002.
Improving stemming for Arabicinformation retrieval: Light Stemming andco-occurrence analysis.
In SIGIR 2002,Tampere, Finland: ACM, 2002.
[10] J. Xu, A. Fraser and R. Weischedel.
2001.TREC 2001 cross-lingual retrieval at BBN.In TREC 2001, Gaithersburg: NIST, 2001.
[11] J. Xu, A. Fraser and R. Weischedel.
2002.Empirical studies in strategies for Arabicinformation retrieval.
In  SIGIR 2002,Tampere, Finland: ACM, 2002.
