Preliminary Lexical Framework forEnglish-Arabic Semantic Resource ConstructionAnne R. DiekemaCenter for Natural Language Processing4-206 Center for Science & TechnologySyracuse, NY, 13210 USAdiekemar@syr.eduAbstractThis paper describes preliminary workconcerning the creation of a Framework to aidin lexical semantic resource construction.
TheFramework consists of 9 stages during whichvarious lexical resources are collected,studied, and combined into a singlecombinatory lexical resource.
To evaluate thegeneral Framework it was applied to a smallset of English and Arabic resources,automatically combining them into a singlelexical knowledge base that can be used forquery translation and disambiguation in Cross-Language Information Retrieval.1 IntroductionCross-Language Information Retrieval (CLIR)systems facilitate matching between queries anddocuments that do not necessarily share the samelanguage.
To accomplish this matching betweendistinct vocabularies, a translation step is required.The preferred method is to translate the querylanguage into the document language by usingmachine translation, or lexicon lookup.
Whilemachine translation may work reasonably well onfull sentences, queries tend to be short lists ofkeywords, and are often more suited for lexicallookup (Oard and Diekema, 1998).This paper describes a preliminary frameworkfor the creation of a lexical resource through thecombination of other lexical resources.
Thepreliminary Framework will be applied to create atranslation lexicon for use in an English-ArabicCLIR system.
The resulting lexicon will be used totranslate English queries into (unvocalized) Arabic.It will also provide the user of the system withlexical semantic information about each of thepossible translations to aid with disambiguation ofthe Arabic query.
While the combination of lexicalresources is nothing new, establishing a soundmethodology for resource combination, aspresented in this paper on English-Arabic semanticresource construction, is an important contribution.Once the Framework has been evaluated forEnglish-Arabic resource construction, it can beextended to additional languages and resourcetypes.2 Related Work2.1 Arabic-English dictionary combinationAs pointed out previously, translation plays animportant role in CLIR.
Most of the CLIR systemsparticipating in the (Arabic) Cross-LanguageInformation Retrieval track1 at the Text REtrievalConference (TREC)2 used a query translationdictionary-based approach where each sourcequery term was looked up in the translationresource and replaced by all or a subset of theavailable translations to create the target query(Larkey, Ballesteros, and Connell, 2002), (Gey andOard, 2001), (Oard and Gey, 2002).
The four mainsources of translation knowledge that have beenapplied to CLIR are ontologies, bilingualdictionaries, machine translation lexicons, andcorpora.Research shows that combining translationresources increases CLIR performance (Larkey etal., 2002) Not only does this combination increasetranslation coverage, it also refines translationprobability calculations.
Chen and Gey  used acombination of dictionaries for query translationand compared retrieval performance of thisdictionary combination with machine translation(Chen and Gey, 2001).
The dictionariesoutperformed MT.
Small bilingual dictionarieswere created by Larkey and Connell (2001) forplace names and also inverted an Arabic-Englishdictionary to English-Arabic.
They found thatusing dictionaries that have multiple senses,1There have been two large scale Arabic informationretrieval evaluations as part of TREC.
These Arabictracks took place in 2001, and 2002 and hadapproximately 10 participating teams each.2http://trec.nist.govthough not always correct, outperform bilingualterm lists with only one translation alternative.Combining dictionaries is especially importantwhen working with ambiguous languages such asArabic.Many TREC teams used translation probabilitiesto deal with translation ambiguity and termweighting issues, especially since a translationlexicon with probabilities was provided as astandard resource.
However, most teams combinedtranslation probabilities from different sources andachieved better retrieval results that way (Xu,Fraser, and Weischedel, 2002), (Chowdhury et al,2002), (Darwish and Oard, 2002).
Darwish andOard (2002) posit that since there is no such thingas a complete translation resource one shouldalways use a combination of resources and thattranslation probabilities will be more accurate ifone uses more resources.2.2 Resource combination methodologiesRuiz (2000) uses the term lexical triangulationto describe the process of mapping a bilingualEnglish-Chinese lexicon into an existing WordNet-based Conceptual Interlingua by using translationevidence from multiple sources.
Recall thatWordNet synsets are formed by groups of termswith similar meaning (Miller, 1990).
By translatingeach of the synonyms into Chinese, Ruiz created afrequency-ranked list of translations, and assumedthat the most frequent translations were most likelyto be correct.
By establishing certain translationevidence thresholds, mappings of varyingreliability were created.
This method was lateraugmented with additional translation evidencefrom a Chinese-English parallel corpus.A methodology to improve query translation isdescribed by Chen (2003).
The methodology isintended to improve translation through the use ofNLP techniques and the combining of thedocument collection, available translationresources, and transliteration techniques.
A basicmapping was created between the Chinese termsfrom the collection and the English terms inWordNet by using a simple Chinese-Englishlexicon.
Missing terms such as Named Entitieswere added through the process of transliteration.By customizing the translation resources to thedocument collection Chen showed an improvementin retrieval performance.3 Establishing a Preliminary FrameworkThe preliminary Framework provides amethodology for the automatic combination ofvarious lexical semantic resources such as machinereadable dictionaries, ontologies, encyclopedias,and machine translation lexicons.
While theseindividual resources are all valuable individually,automatic intelligent lexical combination into onesingle lexical knowledge base will provide anenhancement that is larger than the sum of its parts.The resulting resource will provide bettercoverage, more reliable translation probabilityinformation, and additional information leveragedthrough the process of lexical triangulation.
In aninitial evaluation of the preliminary Framework, itwas applied to the combination of English andArabic lexical resources as described in section 4.The preliminary Framework consists of 9 stages:1) establish goals2) collect resources3) create resource feature matrix4) develop evidence combination strategiesand thresholds5) construct combinatory lexical resource6) manage problems that arise during creation7) evaluate combinatory lexical resource8) implement possible improvements9) create final version of combinatory lexicalresource.Stage 1: The first stage of the Framework isintended to establish the possible usage of thecombinatory lexical resource (resulting form thecombination of multiple resources).
Therequirements of this resource will drive the secondstage: resource collection.Stage 2: Two types of resources should becollected: language processing resources such asstemmers and tokenizers; and lexical semanticresources such as dictionaries and lexicons.
Whilenot every resource may seem particularly useful atfirst, different resources can aid in mapping otherresources together.
During the second stage,conversion into a single encoding (such as UTF-8)will also take place.Stage 3: Once a set of resources has beencollected, the resource feature matrix can becreated.
This matrix provides an overview of thetypes of information found in the collectedresources and of certain resource characteristics.For example, it is important to note what base formthe dictionary entries have.
Some dictionaries usethe singular form (for nouns) or indefinite form(for verbs), some use roots, others use stems, andfree resources from the web often use acombination of all of the above.
By studying thefeature matrix the evidence combination strategiesfor stage four can be developed.ArabicEnglishwordstemrootvocalizedunvocalizedposEnglishdefinitionArabicdefinitionsynonymssenseinformationArabeyes x x x    xAjeeb x x x   x  x  x  xBuckwalter x x  x  x x x x   xGigaword x  x    xWordNet 2.0  x      x x  x xTable 1:  Resource feature matrixStage 4: An intelligent resource combinationstrategy should be informed by the features of thedifferent resources.
It may be, for example, thatone resource uses vocalized Arabic only and thatanother resource uses both vocalized andunvocalized Arabic.
This fact should be taken intoaccount by the combination strategy since thesecond resource can serve as an intermediary tomap the first resource.
Thresholding decisions arealso part of stage four because the certainty ofsome combinations will be higher than others.Stage 5: Stage five involves writing programsbased on the findings in stage four that willautomatically create the combinatory lexicalresource.
The combination programs shouldprovide output concerning problematic instancesthat occur during the creation i.e.
words that onlyoccur in a single resource, so that these problemsmay be handled by alternative strategies in stagesix.Stage 6: Most of the problems in stage six arelikely to be uncommon words, such as namedentities or transliteration.
A transliteration step,where for example English letters, i.e.
r, aremapped to the closest Arabic sounding letters, i.e. , may be applied for languages that do not sharethe same orthographies.Stage 7: After the initial combinatory lexicalresource has been created it needs to be evaluated.First the accuracy (quality) of the combinationmappings of the various resources needs to beassessed in an intrinsic evaluation.
After it hasbeen established that the combination has beensuccessful, an extrinsic evaluation can be carriedout.
In this evaluation the combinatory lexicalresource is tested as part of the actual applicationthe source was intended for, i.e.
CLIR.
(For a moredetailed description of evaluation see Section 5below.
)Stage 8: These two evaluations will inform stageeight where possible improvements are added tothe combination process.Stage 9: The final version of the combinatorylexical resource can be created in stage nine.4 Application of the Framework to English-ArabicThe preliminary Framework as described insection 3 was applied to five English and Arabiclanguage resources as a kind of feasibility test.Following the Framework, we first established thegoals of the combinatory lexical resource.
It wasdetermined that the resource would be used as atranslation resource for CLIR that would aid querytranslation as well as manual translationdisambiguation by the user.
This meant that thecombinatory lexical resource would needtranslation probabilities as well as Englishdefinitions for Arabic translations to enable anEnglish language user to select the correct Arabictranslation.
We collected five different resources:WordNet 2.03, the lexicon included with theBuckwalter Stemmer4, translations mined fromAjeeb5, the wordlist from the Arabeyes project6,and the LDC Arabic Gigaword corpus7.
After theresources were collected the feature matrix wasdeveloped (see Table 1).3http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn4http://www.qamus.org5http://english.ajeeb.com6http://www.arabeyes.org7http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2003T12The established combinatory lexical resourcegoals and resource feature matrix were used todetermine the combination strategy.
Since theresource should provide the user with definitionsof Arabic words and WordNet is mostcomprehensive in this regard, it was selected as ourbase resource.
The AFP newswire collection fromthe Gigaword corpus was used to mine Ajeeb.
Asis evident in the matrix, all resources containEnglish terms as a common denominator.
Theinformation used for evidence combination was asfollows.
Evidence used for mapping the Ajeeb andBuckwalter lexicons is part-of-speech information.Additionally, these two resources also providevocalized Arabic terms/stems that can be used for amore reliable (less ambiguous) match.
TheArabeyes lexicon is not terribly rich but was usedas additional evidence for a certain translationthrough frequency weighting.
The combinatorylexical resource was constructed by mapping thethree lexical resources into WordNet using theevidence as discussed above (see Table 2).world, human race, humanity, humankind, humanbeings, humans, mankind, man, all of theinhabitants of the earthall of the inhabitants of the earth		 !"#$#%&'(&	)*&+%&(	,-'.&/%&0-%&01&%&-2%3&4+%+%5/1%.
/34.
/01342,&,+0+$13410346-,	-060%Table 2: Combinatory lexical resource entryexample resulting from Step 5After examining the combinatory lexicalresource we found that the Arabeyes Arabic termscould not be compared directly to the Arabic termsin the other lexical resources since the determinerprefixes are still attached to the terms (as in $for example).
More problematic were thetranslations mined from Ajeeb since the part-of-speech information of the Arabic term did notnecessarily match the part-of-speech of thetranslations:#VB#2.1.2# #do_sentry_duty,keep_watch_over,guard,watchdog,oversee,sentinel,shield,watch,wardThe first problem is easily fixed by applying alight stemmer to the dictionary.
At this point it isnot clear however, how to fix the second problem.It was also decided that the translation reliabilityweighting by frequency is too limited to be useful.A back-translation lookup needs to determine howmany other terms can result in a certain translation.This data can then update the reliability score.5 Comprehensive EvaluationWhile we only have carried out a preliminaryevaluation, we envision a comprehensiveevaluation in the near future.
As part of thisevaluation three different types of evaluation canbe carried out:1) evaluate the process of applying theFramework;2) evaluate the combinatory lexical resourceitself; and3) evaluate the contribution of thecombinatory lexical resource to theapplication the resource was created for.Evaluation of the process of applying theFramework will provide evidence as to theadvantages and disadvantages of our Framework,and where it may have to be adjusted.The construction of a Combinatory LexicalResource by applying the Framework is the firststep toward an effective evaluation of the fullFramework.
The construction process detailed inSection 3 should be carefully documented.
Theevaluation will focus on the time and effort spenton the process, difficulties or ease with resourcesthat are acquired, managed and processed, as wellas problems or issues that arise during the process.The intrinsic evaluation of the combinatorylexical resource indicates the quality of the newlycreated combinatory lexical resource.
For thisevaluation a large random number of entries willneed to be evaluated for correctness.
Theevaluation will provide accuracy and coveragemeasures for the resource.
Also, descriptivestatistics will be generated to provide generalunderstanding of the lexical resource that has beenproduced.The extrinsic evaluation of the combinatorylexical resource is intended to measure thecontribution of the resource to an application (i.e.CLIR, Information Extraction).
The application ofchoice should be run with the combinatory lexicalresource, and without.
Performance metricsappropriate for the type of application can becollected for both experiments and then compared.6 Conclusion and future researchA general Framework for lexical resourceconstruction was presented in the context ofEnglish-Arabic semantic resource combination.The initial evaluation of the Framework lookspromising in that it was successfully applied tocombine five English-Arabic resources.
The stagesof the Framework provided a useful guideline forlexical resource combination and can be applied toresources in any language.
We plan to extend theevaluation of the Framework to a more in depthintrinsic evaluation where the quality of themappings is tested.
An extrinsic evaluation shouldalso take place to evaluate the combinatory lexicalresource as part of the CLIR system.
As for futureresearch we hope to extend the evidencecombination algorithms to include moresophisticated information using back translationand transliteration.7 AcknowledgementsThis work is supported by the U.S. Departmentof Justice.ReferencesA.
Chen, and F. Gey.
2001.
Translation TermWeighting and Combining TranslationResources in Cross-Language Retrieval.
In?Proceedings of the Tenth Text REtrievalConference (TREC-10)?, E.M. Voorhees andD.K.
Harman ed., pages 529-533,  NIST,Gaithersburg, MD.J.
Chen.
2003.
The Construction, Use, andEvaluation of a Lexical Knowledge Base forEnglish-Chinese Cross-Language InformationRetrieval.
Dissertation.
School of InformationStudies, Syracuse University.A.
Chowdhury, M. Aljalayl, E. Jensen, S. Beitzel,D.
Grossman, O. Frieder.
2002.
IIT at TREC-2002: Linear Combinations Based on DocumentStructure and Varied Stemming for ArabicRetrieval.
In ?Proceedings of the Eleventh TextREtrieval Conference (TREC-11)?, E.M.Voorhees and C.P.
Buckland ed., pages 299-310,NIST, Gaithersburg, MD.K.
Darwish and D.W. Oard.
2002.
CLIRExperiments at Maryland for TREC-2002:Evidence combination for Arabic-Englishretrieval.
In ?Proceedings of the Eleventh TextREtrieval Conference (TREC-11)?, E.M.Voorhees and C.P.
Buckland ed., pages 703-710,NIST, Gaithersburg, MD.F.C.
Gey, and Oard, D.W. 2001.
The TREC-2001Cross-Language Information Retrieval Track:Searching Arabic using English, French, orArabic Queries.
In ?Proceedings of the TenthText REtrieval Conference (TREC-10)?, E.M.Voorhees and D.K.
Harman ed., pages 16-25,NIST, Gaithersburg, MD.L.S.
Larkey, J. Allan,  M.E.
Connell, A. Bolivar,and C. Wade.
2002.
UMass at TREC 2002:Cross Language and Novelty Tracks.
In?Proceedings of the Eleventh Text REtrievalConference (TREC-11)?, E.M. Voorhees andC.P.
Buckland ed., pages 721-732,  NIST,Gaithersburg, MD.L.S.
Larkey, L. Ballesteros, M. Connell.
2002.Improving Stemming for Arabic InformationRetrieval: Light Stemming and Co-occurrenceAnalysis.
In ?Proceedings of the 25th AnnualInternational Conference on Research andDevelopment in Information Retrieval?, M.Beaulieu et al ed., pages 275-282, ACM, NY,NY.L.S.
Larkey, and M. E. Connell.
2001.
ArabicInformation Retrieval at UMass in TREC-10.
In?Proceedings of the Tenth Text REtrievalConference (TREC-10)?, E.M. Voorhees andD.K.
Harman ed., pages 562-570,  NIST,Gaithersburg, MD.G.
Miller.
1990.
WordNet: An On-line LexicalDatabase.
International Journal ofLexicography, 3(4), Special Issue.D.
Oard and A. Diekema.
1998.
Cross-LanguageInformation Retrieval.
Annual Review ofInformation Science, 33: 223-256.D.W.
Oard, and Gey, F.C.2002.
The TREC-2002Arabic/English CLIR Track.
In ?Proceedings ofthe Eleventh Text REtrieval Conference (TREC-11)?, E.M. Voorhees and C.P.
Buckland ed.,pages 17-26,  NIST, Gaithersburg, MD.M.E.
Ruiz, et al 2001.
CINDOR TREC-9 English-Chinese Evaluation.
In ?Proceedings of the 9thText REtrieval Conference (TREC-9)?, E.M.Voorhees and D.K.
Harman ed., pages 379-388,NIST, Gaithersburg, MD.J.
Xu, A. Fraser, R. Weischedel.
2002.
EmpiricalStudies in Strategies for Arabic Retrieval.
In?Proceedings of the 25th Annual InternationalConference on Research and Development inInformation Retrieval?, M. Beaulieu et al ed.,pages 269-274, ACM, NY, NY.
