COOPML: Towards Annotating Cooperative DiscourseFarah Benamara, Ve?ronique Moriceau, Patrick Saint-DizierIRIT118 route de Narbonne31062 Toulouse cedex Francebenamara, moriceau, stdizier@irit.frAbstractIn this paper, we present a preliminary version ofCOOPML, a language designed for annotating co-operative discourse.
We investigate the different lin-guistic marks that identify and characterize the dif-ferent forms of cooperativity found in written textsfrom FAQs, Forums and emails.1 What are cooperative responses andwhy annotate them ?Grice (Grice, 1975) proposed a number of maximsthat describe various ways in which speakers are en-gaged in a cooperative conversation.
Human con-versations are governed by implicit rules, used andunderstood by all conversants.
The contents of a re-sponse can be just direct w.r.t.
the question literalcontents, but it can also go beyond what is normallyexpected, in a relevant way, in order to meet thequestioner?s expectations.
Such a response is saidto be cooperative.Following these maxims and related works, e.g.
(Searle, 1975), in the early 1990s, a number offorms of cooperative responses were identified.Most of the efforts in these studies and systems fo-cussed on the foundations and on the implementa-tion of reasoning procedures (Gal, 1988), (Minocket al., 1996), while little attention was paid toquestion analysis and NL response generation.
Anoverview of these systems can be found in (Gaster-land et al, 1994) and in (Webber et al., 2002),based on works by (Hendrix et al., 1978), (Kaplan,1982), (Mays et al., 1982), among others.
Thesesystems include e.g.
the identification of false pre-suppositions and various types of misunderstand-ings found in questions.
They also include rea-soning schemas based e.g.
on constant relaxationto provide approximate or alternative, but relevant,answers when the direct question has no response.Intensional reasoning schemas can also be used togeneralize over lists of basic responses or to con-struct summaries.The framework of Advanced Reasoning forQuestion Answering (QA) systems, as described ina recent road map, raises new challenges since an-swers can no longer be only directly extracted fromtexts (as in TREC) or databases, but requires the useof a domain knowledge base, including a concep-tual ontology, and dedicated inference mechanisms.Such a perspective, obviously, reinforces and givesa whole new insight to cooperative answering.
Forexample, if one asks 1:Q4: Where is the Borme les Mimosas cinema ?if there are no cinema in Borme les Mimosas, it canbe responded:R4: There is none in Borme, the closests are inLonde (8kms) and in Hyeres (20kms),where close-by alternatives are proposed, involvingrelaxing Borme, identified as a village, into close-byvillages or towns that respond to the question, eval-uating proximity, and finally sorting the responses,e.g.
by increasing distance from Borme.
This sim-ple example shows that, if a direct response can-not be found, several forms of knowledge, reason-ing schemas and strategies need to be used.
This isone of the major challenges of advanced QA.
An-other challenge, not yet addressed, is the generationof the response in natural language.Our first aim is to study, via corpus annotations,how humans deploy cooperative behaviours andprocedures, by what means, and what is the form ofthe responses provided.
Our second aim is to con-struct a linguistically and cognitively adequate for-mal model that integrates language, knowledge andinference aspects involved in cooperative responses.Our assumption is then that an automatic coopera-tive QA system, although much more stereotypedthan any natural system, could be induced from nat-ural productions without loosing too much of thecooperative contents produced by humans.From that point of view, the results presented inthis paper establish a base for investigating coop-erativity empirically and not only in an abstract and1Our corpora are in French, but, whenever possible we onlygive here English glosses for space reasonsintrospective way.
Our goal is to get a kind of empir-ical testing and then model for cooperative answer-ing, to get clearer ideas on the structure of coopera-tive discourse, the reasoning processes involved, thetypes of knowledge involved and the NL expressionmodes.2 Related workDiscourse annotation is probably one of the mostchallenging domains that involves almost all aspectsof language, from morphology to pragmatics.
It isof much importance in a number of areas, besidesQA, such as MT or dialogue.
A number of discourseannotation projects (e.g.
PALinkA (Orasan, 2003),MULI (Baumann et al., 2004), DiET (Netter etali.
1998), MATE (Dybkjaer et al., 2000)) mainlydeal with reference annotations (be they pronom-inal, temporal or spatial), which is clearly a ma-jor problem in discourse.
Discourse connectivesand their related anaphoric links and discourse unitsare analyzed in-depth in PDTB (Miltasakaki et al.2004), a system now widely used in a number ofNL applications.
RST discourse structures are alsoidentified in the Treebank corpora.All these projects show the difficulty to annotatediscourse, the subjectivity of the criteria for both thebracketing and the annotations.
Annotation tasksare in general labor-intensive, but results in terms ofdiscourse understanding are rewarding.
Customisa-tion to specific domains or forms of discourse andthe definition of test-suites are still open problems,as outlined in PDTB and MATE.Our contribution is more on the pragmatic side ofdiscourse, where there is little work done, probablybecause of the complexity of the notions involvedand the difficulty to interpret them.
Let us note(Strenston, 1994) that investigates complex prag-matic functions such as performatives and illocu-tionary force.
Our contribution is obviously inspiredby abstract and generic categorizations in pragmat-ics, but it is more concrete in the sense that it aimsat identifying precise cooperative functions used ineveryday life in large-public applications.
In a firststage, we restrict ourselves to written QA pairs suchas FAQ, Forums and email messages, which arequite well representative of short cooperative dis-courses (see 3.1).3 A typology of cooperative functionsThe typology below clearly needs further testing,stabilization and confirmation by annotators.
How-ever, it settles the main lines of cooperative dis-course structure.3.1 Typology of corporaTo carry out our study and subsequent evaluations,we considered three typical sources of coopera-tive discourses: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ),Forums and email question-answer pairs (EQAP),these latter obtained by sending ourselves emails torelevant services (e.g.
for tourism: tourist offices,airlines, hotels).
The initial study was carried out on350 question-answer pairs.
Note that in the tourismdomain, FAQ are rather specific: they are not ready-made, prototypical questions.
They are rather un-structured sets of questions produced e.g.
via emailby standard users.
From that point of view, they areof much interest to us.We have about 50% pairs coming from FAQ, 25%from Forums and 25% from EQAP.
The domainsconsidered are basically large-public applications:tourism (60%, our implementations being based onthis application domain), health (22%), sport, shop-ping and education.
In all these corpora, no usermodel is assumed, and there is no dialogue: QApairs are isolated, with no context.
This is basi-cally the type of communication encountered whenquerying the Web.
Our corpus is only composed ofwritten texts, but these are rather informal, and quiteclose in style to spoken QA pairs.FAQ, Forum and EQAP cooperative responsesshare several similarities, but have also some dif-ferences.
Forums have in general longer responses(up to half a page), whereas FAQ and EQAP arerather short (from 2 to 12 lines, in general).
FAQand Forums deal with quite general questions whileEQAP are more personal.
EQAP provided us witha very rich material since they allowed us to get re-sponses to queries in which we have deliberately in-troduced various well identified errors and miscon-ceptions.
In order to have a better analysis of howhumans react, we sent those questions to different,closely related organizations (e.g.
sending the sameill-formed questions to several airlines).
FAQ, Fo-rums and EQAP also contain several forms of adver-tising, and metalinguistic parameters outlining e.g.their commercial dimensions.From the analysis of 350 of QA pairs, taking intoaccount the formal pragmatics and artificial intelli-gence perspectives, we have identified the typologypresented below, which defines the first version ofCOOPML.3.2 Cooperative discourse functionsWe structure cooperative responses in terms of co-operative functions, which are realized in responsesby means of meaningful units (MU).
An MU is thesmallest unit we consider at this level; it conveys aminimal, but comprehensive and coherent fragmentof information.
In a response, MUs are connectedby means of transition units (TU), which are intro-ductory or inserted between meaningful units.
TUsdefine the articulations of the cooperative discourse.In a cooperative discourse, we distinguish threetypes of MU: direct responses (DR), cooperativeknow-how (CSF) and units with a marginal useful-ness (B) such as commentaries (BC), paraphrases(BP), advertising, useless explanations w.r.t.
to thequestion.
These may have a metalinguistic force(insistence, customer safety, etc) that we will notexamine in this paper.
DR are not cooperativeby themselves, but they are studied here becausethey introduce cooperative statements.
Let us nowpresent a preliminary typology for DR and CSF, be-tween parentheses are abbreviations used as XMLlabels.Direct responses (DR): are MUs correspondingto statements whose contents can be directly elabo-rated from texts, web pages, databases, etc., possi-bly via deduction, but not involving any reformula-tion of the original query.
DR include the followingmain categories:?
Simple responses (DS): consisting of yes/noforms, modals, figures, propositions in eitheraffirmative or negative form, that directly re-spond the question.?
Definitions, Descriptions (DD): usually textfragments defining or describing a concept, inresponse to questions e.g.
of the form what is?concept??.?
Procedures (DP): that describe how to realizesomething.?
Causes, Consequences, Goals (DCC): that usu-ally respond to questions in Why/ How?.?
Comparisons and Evaluations (DC): that re-spond to questions asking for comparisons orevaluations.This classification is closely related to a typology ofquestions defined in (Lehnert, 1978).Responses involving Cooperative Know-how(CSF) are responses that go beyond direct answersin order to help the user when the question has nodirect solution or when the question contains a mis-conception of some sort.
These responses reflectvarious forms of know-how deployed by humans.We decompose them into two main classes: Re-sponse Elaboration (ER) and Additional Infor-mation (CR).
The first class includes response unitsthat propose alternative responses to the questionwhereas the latter contains a variety of complementsof information, which are useful but not absolutelynecessary.
ER are in a large part inspired from spe-cific research in Artificial Intelligence such as con-straint relaxation and intensional calculus.Response elaboration (ER) includes the follow-ing MUs:?
Corrective responses (CC): that explain why aquestion has no response when it contains amisconception or a false presupposition (for-mally, a domain integrity constraint or a factualknowledge violation, respectively), For exam-ple: Q5: a chalet in Corsica for 15 persons?has no solution, a possible response is:R5a: Chalets can accomodate a maximum of10 persons in Corsica.?
Responses by extension (CSFR): propose al-ternative solutions by relaxing a constraint inthe original question.
There are several formsof relaxations, reported in (Benamara et al2004a), which are more subtle than those de-veloped in artificial intelligence.
For example,we observed relaxation on cardinality, on sis-ter concepts or on remote concepts with similarprominent properties, not studied in AI, whererelaxation operates most of the time on the ba-sis of ancestors.Response R5a above can then be followed byCSFRs of various forms such as: R5b: we canoffer (1) two-close-by chalets for a total of 15persons, or(2) another type of accomodation in Corsica:hotel or pension for 15 persons.Case (1) is a relaxation on cardinality (dupli-cation of the resource) while (2) is a relaxationthat refers to sisters of the concept chalet.?
Intensional responses (CSFRI): tend to abstractover possibly long enumerations of extensionalresponses in order to provide a response at thebest level of abstraction, which is not necessar-ily the highest.
For example, Q6: How can Iget to Geneva airport ?
has the following re-sponse:R6a: Taxis, most buses and all trains goto Geneva airport.
This level is preferedto the more general but less informative re-sponse R6b: Most public transportations go toGeneva airport.?
Indirect responses (CSFI): provide responseswhich are not direct w.r.t.
the question (butwhich may have a direct response), e.g.
: isyour camping close to the highway?, can beindirectly, but cooperatively answered:yes, but that highway is quiet at night.. A di-rect response would have said, e.g.
: yes, we areonly 50 meters far from the highway, meaningthat the camping is of an easy access.?
Hypothetical responses (CSFH): include re-sponses based on an hypothesis.
Such re-sponses are often related to incomplete ques-tions, or questions which can only be partlybe answered for various reasons such as lackof information, or vague information w.r.t thequestion focus.
In this case, we have a QA pairof the form: Q7: Can I get discounts on traintickets ?
R7: You can get a discount if you areless than 18 years old or more than 65, or ifyou are travelling during week-ends.?
Clustered, case or comparative responses(CSFC): which answer various forms of ques-tions e.g.
with vague terms (e.g.
expensive, farfrom the beach).
For example, to Q8: is the ho-tel Royal expensive?
it is answered: R8: for itscategory (3*) it is expensive, you can find 4*hotels at the same rate.The most frequent forms of responses are CSFR,CSFI, CSFC, CSFRI; the two others (CC andCSFH) are mainly found in email QA.Additional Information units (CR) contain thefollowing cases:?
precisions of various forms, that deepen the re-sponse (AF): this ?segment?
or ?continuum?
offorms ranges from minor precisions and gen-eralizations to elaborated comments, as in Q9:Where can I buy a hiking trail map of MountPilat ?
which has the response R9 that startsby an AF: R9: The parc published a 1:50 000map with itineraries,... this map can be boughtat bookshops....?
restrictions (AR): restrict the scope of a re-sponse, e.g.
by means of conditions: Q10: Doyou refund tickets in case of a strike ?
R10:yes, a financial compensation is possible pro-vided that the railway union agrees....?
warnings (AA): warn the questioner aboutpossible problems, annoyances, dangers, etc.They may also underline the temporal versatil-ity of the information, as it is often the case fortouristic resources (for example, hotel or flightavailability),?
justifications (AJ): justify a negative, unex-pected or partial response: Q11: Can I be re-funded if I loose my rail pass ?, R11: No, therail pass fare does not include any insuranceagainst loss or robbery.?
concessives (AC): introduce the possibility ofe.g.
exceptions or specific treatments: Chil-dren below 12 are not allowed to travel unac-companied, however if a passenger is willingto take care about him....?
suggestions - alternatives - counter-proposals(AS): this continuum of possibilities includesthe proposition of alternatives, more or lessmarked, when the query has no answer, in par-ticular via the above ER.
Q12: Can I pay thehotel with a credit card?, R12: yes, but it ispreferable to have cash with you: you?ll get amuch better exchange rate and no commission.The different MU have been designed with nooverlap, it is however clear that there may havesome forms of continuums between them.
For ex-ample, CSFR, although more restricted, may beviewed as an AS, since an alternative, via relaxation,is proposed.
We then would give preference to theCSF group over the CR, because they are more pre-cise.A response does not involve more, in general,than 3 to 4 meaningful units.
Most are linearly or-ganized, but some are also embedded.
At the formlevel, response units of CSF (ER and CR) havein general one or a combination of the followingforms: adverb or modal (RON), proposition (RP),enumeration (RE), sorted response (via e.g.
scalarimplicature) (RT), conditionals (RC) or case struc-ture (RSC).
These forms may have some overlap,e.g.
RE and RT.3.3 Annotating Cooperative Discourse: a fewillustrationsFig.
1 (next page) presents three examples anno-tated with COOPML.3.4 Identifying cooperative response unitsThe question that arises at this stage is the existenceof linguistic markers that allow for the identifica-tion of these response units.
Besides these mark-ers, there are also constraints on the organizationof the cooperative discourse in meaningful units.These are essentially co-occurrence, incompatibil-ity and precedence constraints.
Finally, it is possi-ble to elaborate heuristics that give indications onthe most frequent combinations to improve MU au-tomatic identification.In the following subsections we first present a ty-pology for MU delimitation, then we explain howdirect responses (DS) are identified, mainly, via theDiscourse level:Q1: Can we buy drinking water on the Kilimandjaro ?R1: < DS > yes < /DS >, < BP > drinking water can be bought < /BP >, < CSP >< AA > but faresare higher than in town, up to 2USD < /AA > .
< AR > It is however not allowed to bring much water fromthe city with you < /AR >< /CSP >.Q2: Is there a cinema in Borme ?R2: < DS >No< /DS >, < CSFR > the closest cinema is at Londes (8 kms) or at Hyeres(< AF >Cinema Olbia< /AF > at 20 kms).< /CSFR >Q3: How can I get to the Borme castle ?R3: < DS > You must take the GR90 from the old castle: < AF > walking distance: 30 minutes < /AF ></DS >.
< AJ > There is no possibility to get there by car.< /AJ >Form level:R2: < RON > No, < /RON > < RE >< RT > The closest cinema is at Londes (8kms) or at Hyeres(cinema Olbia at 20 kms) < /RT >< /RE >.Figure 1: Discourse annotationdomain ontology whose structure and contents ispresented.
We end the section by the linguisticmarks that identify a number of additional informa-tion units (CR).3.4.1 Typology of MU delimitatorsIdentifying meaningful response units consists intwo tasks: exploring linguistic criteria associatedwith each form of cooperative response unit andfinding the boundaries of each unit.
Cooperativediscourse being in general quite straightforward, itturns out that most units are well delimited natu-rally: about 70% of the units are single, completesentences, ending by a dot.
The others are eitherdelimited by transition units TU such as connectors(about 20%) or by specific signs (e.g.
end of enu-merations, punctuation marks).
Delimiting units istherefore in our perspective quite simple (it may notbe so in e.g.
oral QA or dialogues).3.4.2 Identification of direct responses (DS) viathe domain ontologyThe identification (and the production) of a num-ber of cooperative functions (e.g.
relaxation, inten-sional responses, direct responses) rely heavily onontological knowledge.Let us present first the characteristics of theontology required in our approach.
It is basicallya conceptual ontology where nodes are associatedwith concept lexicalizations and essential proper-ties.
Each node is represented by the predicate :onto-node(concept, lex, properties)where concept has properties and lexicalisationslex.
Most lexicalisations are entries in the lexicon(except for paraphrases), where morphological andgrammatical aspects are described.
For example,for hotel, we have (coded in Prolog):onto-node(hotel,[[hotel], [residence, hoteliere]],[night-rate, nb-of-rooms,facilities]) .There are several well-designed public domainontologies on the net.
Our ontology is a synthesisof two existing French ontologies, that we cus-tomized: TourinFrance (www.tourinfrance.net)and the bilingual (French and English) the-saurus of tourism and leisure activities(www.iztzg.hr/indokibiblioteka/THESAUR.PDF)which includes 2800 French terms.
We manuallyintegrated these ontologies in WEBCOOP (Bena-mara et al 2004a) by removing concepts that areeither too specific (i.e.
too low level), like somebasic aspects of ecology or rarely considered, as e.g.the economy of tourism.
We also removed quitesurprising classifications such as sanatorium undertourist accommodation.
We finally reorganizedsome concept hierarchies, so that they ?look?
moreintuitive for a large public.
Finally, we found thatsome hierarchies are a little bit odd, for example,we found at the same level accommodation capac-ity and holiday accommodation whereas, in ourcase, we consider that capacity is a property of theconcept tourist accommodation.We have, at the moment, 1000 concepts in ourtourism ontology which describe accommodationand transportation and a few other satellite elements(geography, health, immigration).
Besides the tra-ditional ?isa?
relation, we also coded the ?part-of?relation.
Synonymy is encoded via the list of lexi-calizations.Direct responses (DS) are essentially character-ized by introductory markers like yes/no/this is pos-sible and by the use of similar terms as those givenin the question (55% of the cases) or by various lex-icalizations of the question terms, studied in depthin (Benamara et al 2004b).
An obvious situation iswhen the response contains a subtype of the ques-tion focus: opening hours of the hotel ?
l?hotelvous acceuille 24h sur 24 (approx.
hotel welcomesyou round the clock).
In terms of portability to otherdomains than tourism, note that the various termsused can be identified via the ontology: synonyms,sisters, subtypes.3.4.3 Linguistic marksIn this section, for space reasons, we explore onlythree typical CR: justifications (AJ), restrictions(AR) and warnings (AA).
These MUs are charac-terized by markers which are general terms, domainindependent for most of them.
The study of thesemarks for French reveals that there is little markeroverlap between units.
Markers have been definedin a first stage from corpus analysis and then gener-alized to similar terms in order to have a larger basisfor evaluation.
We also used, to a limited extend,a bootstrapping technique to get more data (Ravin-chandran and Hovy 2002), a method that starts byan unambiguous set of anchors (often arguments ofa relational term) for a target sense.
Searching textfragments on the Web based on these anchors thenproduces a number of ways of relating these an-chors.Let us now characterize linguistic markers foreach of these categories:Restrictions (AR) are an important unit in coop-erative discourse.
There is a quite large literature inlinguistics about the expression of restrictions.
Incooperative discourse, the expression of restrictionsis realized quite straightforwardly by a small num-ber of classes of terms:(a) restrictive locutions: sous re?serve que, a`l?exception de, il n?est pas autoris?e de, toutefois, etc.
(provided that),(b) the negative form ne ... que that is typical of re-strictions, is very frequently used(c) restrictive modals: doit obligatoirement,impe?rativement, ne?cessairement (must obligato-rily),(d) quantification with a restrictive interpretation:seul, pas tous, au maximum (only, not all).Justifications (AJ) is also an important mean-ingful unit, it has however a little bit fuzzy scope.Marks are not very clearcut.
Among them, we have:(a) marks expressing causality, mainly connectorssuch as: car, parce que, en raison de,(b) marks expressing, via other forms of negationthan in AR, the impossibility to give a positive re-sponse, or marks ?justifying?
the response: il n?y apas, il n?existe pas, en effet (because, there is no,indeed).Warnings (AA) can quite clearly be identified bymeans of:(a) verbal expressions: sachez que, veuillez a` nepas, mieux vaut e?viter, n?oubliez pas, attention a`,etc.
(note that, do not forget, etc.
),(b) expressions or temporal morphological marksthat indicate that data is sensitive to time and maybe true only at some point: mise a` jour, change-ments fre?quents, etc.
(frequent updates),(c) a few other expressions such as: il n?existe pas,mais (but) ... + comparative form.Except for the identification of DS, which requirequite a lot of ontological resources, marks identi-fied for the other MU studied here are quite general.Portability of these marks to other domains and pos-sibly to other languages should be a reasonably fea-sible challenge.The response elaboration part (ER) is more con-strained in terms of marks, because of the logicalprocedures that are related to.
For example, theCSFR, dealing with constraint relaxation, involvesthe use of sister, daughter and sometimes parentnodes of the focus, and often proposes at least 2choices.
It is in general associated with a negativedirect response, or an explanation why no responsecan be found.
It also also contains some fixed marksthat indicate a change of concept, such as anothertype of.
This is easily visible in the pair Q2-R2 (sec-tion 3.3) with the mark: the closests.3.4.4 Constraints between unitsA few constraints or preferences can be formu-lated on the organization of meaningful units, thesemay be somewhat flexible, because cooperative dis-course may have a wide range of forms:(a) coocurrence: any DR can co-occur with an AS,AF, AR, AA or AJ,(b) precedence: any DR precedes any (unmarked)AA, AR, AC, ACP, B, or any sequence DS-BP.
AnyCC precedes any CSFR, CSFH or CSFRI,(c) incompatibility: DS + DP, CSFR + CSFI,CSFC + CSFH.
Furthermore CR cannot appearalone.Frequent pairs are quite numerous, here are themost typical ones: DS + P, DS + AR, CC + CSFRor CSFH or CSFRI, DS + AJ, DS(negative) + AJ +AS, DS + AF, DS(negative) + CSFR.
These can beconsidered in priority in case of ambiguities.3.5 Evaluation by annotatorsAt this stage, it is necessary to have evaluated by hu-man annotators how clear, well-delimited and easyto use this classification is.
We do not have yet pre-cise results, but it is clear that judgments may varyfrom one annotator to another.
This is not only dueto the generic character of our definitions, but alsoto the existence of continuums between categories,and to the interpretation of responses that may varydepending on context, profile and culture of annota-tors.An experiment carried out on three independentsubjects (annotation task followed by a discussionof the results) reveals that there is a clear consen-sus of 80% on the annotations we did ourselves.The other 20% reflect interpretation variations, ingeneral highly contextual.
These 20% are almostthe same cases for the three subjects.
In particu-lar, at the level of additional information (CR), weobserved some differences in judgement in partic-ular between restrictions (AR) and warnings (AA),and a few others between CSFH and CSFC whosedifferences may sometimes be only superficial (pre-sentation of the arguments of the response).3.6 Evaluation of prototype: a first experimentWe can now evaluate the accuracy of the linguisticmarks given above.
For that purpose, we designeda programme in Prolog (for fast prototyping) thatuses: (1) the domain lexicon and ontology, to haveaccess e.g.
to term lexicalizations and morphology,and (2) a set of ?local?
grammars that implement thedifferent marks.
Since these marks involve lexicaland morphological variations, negation, and somelong-distance dependencies, grammars are a goodsolution.Tests were carried out on a new corpus, essen-tially from airlines FAQ.
134 QA pairs have beenselected from this corpus containing some form ofcooperativity.
The annotation of this corpus is auto-matic, while the evaluation of the results is manualand is carried out in parallel by both ourselves andby an external professional evaluator.
These 134QA pairs contain a total of 237 MU, therefore anaverage of 1.76 MU per response.
Most responseshave 2 MU, the maximum observed being 4.
Sur-prisingly, out of the 134 pairs, only 108 contain di-rect responses followed by various CSF, the other16 only contain cooperative know-how responses(CSF), without any direct response part.Evaluation results, although carried out on a rel-atively small set of QA pairs, give good indicationson the accuracy of the linguistic marks, and also onthe typology of the different MU.
We consider herethe MU: DS, AJ, AR, AA, as characterized above:Unit A B C Total correct annotationDS 102 6 0 108 88%AJ 27 6 3 36 75%AR 36 4 2 42 86%AA 24 0 0 24 100%A: number of MU annotated correctly for that cate-gory, B: MU not annotated (no decision made), C:incorrect annotation.MU boundaries have been correctly identified in88% of the cases, they are mostly related to punctu-ation marks.There are obviously a few delicate cases whereannotation is difficult if not impossible.
First, weobserved a few discontinuities: an MU can be frag-mented.
In that case, it is necessary to add an indexto the tag so that the different fragments can be un-ambiguously related, as in:Q: What is the deadline for an internet reservation?R: < DR index = 1 > In the case of an electronicticket, you can reserve up to 24h prior to departure< /DR > .
< B > You just need to show up at theregistration desk < /B > .
< DR index = 1 >In the case of a traditional ticket ... < /DR >.The index=1 allows to tie the two fragments of theenumeration.In a number of cases the direct response partis rather indirect, making its identification via themeans presented above quite delicate:Q: I forgot to note my reservation number, how canI get it?R: A confirmation email has been sent to you assoon as the reservation has been finalized.... Toidentify this portion of the response as a DR, it isnecessary to infer that the email is a potential con-tainer for a reservation number.4 Conclusion and PerspectivesWe reported in this paper a preliminary version, fortesting, of COOPML, a language designed to an-notate the different facets of cooperative discourse.Our approach, still preliminary, can be viewed as abase to investigate the different forms of coopera-tivity on an empirical basis.
This work is of muchinterest to define the formal structure of a coopera-tive discourse.
It can be used in discourse parsing aswell as generation, where it needs to be paired withother structures such as rhethorical structures.
It isso far limited to written forms.
We believe the sameglobal structure, with minor adaptations and addi-tional marks, is valid for dialogues and oral com-munication, but this remains to be investigated.
Themain application area where our work is of interestis probably advanced Question-Answering systems.Besides cooperative discourse annotation, wehave investigated the different forms lexicalizationtakes between the question and the different partsof the response, the direct response (DR), the re-sponse elaboration (ER) and the additional infor-mation (CR).
These are subtle realizations of muchinterest for natural language generation.
These ele-ments are reported in (Benamara and Saint-Dizier,2004b).COOPML will be extended and stabilized in thenear future along the following dimensions:?
analyze the linguistic marks associated withthe MU not investigated here, and possible cor-relations or conflicts between MU,?
analyze its customisation to various applica-tion domains: since quite a lot of ontologicaland lexical knowledge is involved, in particu-lar to identify DS, this needs some elaboration,?
investigate portability to other languages, inparticular investigate the cost related to lin-guistic resources development,?
develop a robust annotator, for each of the lev-els identified, and make it available on a stan-dard platform,?
investigate knowledge annotation.
This pointis quite innovative and of much interest be-cause of the heavy knowledge load involved inthe production of cooperative responses.Acknowledgements We thank all the partici-pants of our TCAN programme project and theCNRS for partly funding it.
We also thank the 3anonymous reviewers for their stimulating and help-ful comments.ReferencesBaumann, S., Brinckmann, C., Hansen-Schirra, S.,Kruijff, G., The MULI Project : Annotation andAnalysis of Information Structure in German andEnglish., LREC, 2004.Benamara, F., Saint-Dizier, P., Dynamic Generationof Cooperative NL responses in WEBCOOP, 9thEWNLG, Budapest, 2003.Benamara.
F, and Saint Dizier.
P, Advanced Relax-ation for Cooperative Question Answering, in:New Directions in Question Answering, To ap-pear in Mark T. Maybury, (ed), AAAI/MIT Press,2004 (a).Benamara.
F, and Saint Dizier.
P, LexicalisationStrategies in Cooperative Question-AnsweringSystems in Proc.
Coling?04, Geneva, 2004 (b).Dybkjaer, L., Bernsen, N.O., The MATE Work-bench.
A Tool in Support of Spoken DialogueAnnotation and Information Extraction, In B.Yuan, T. Huang, X.
Tank (Eds.
): Proceedings ofICSLP?2000?, Beijing,?, 2000.Gal, A., Cooperative Responses in DeductiveDatabases, PhD Thesis, Univ.
of Maryland,1988.Gaasterland, T., Godfrey, P., Minker, J., AnOverview of Cooperative Answering, Papers innon-standard queries and non-standard answers,Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1994.Grice, H., Logic and Conversation, in Cole andMorgan (eds), Syntax and Semantics, AcademicPress, 1975.Hendrix, G., Sacerdoti, E., Sagalowicz, D., Slocum,J., Developing a Natural Language Interface toComplex Data, ACM transactions on databasesystems, 3(2), 1978.Kaplan, J., Cooperative Responses from a PortableNatural Language Query System, in M. Bradyand R. Berwick (ed), Computational Models ofDiscourse, 167-208, MIT Press, 1982.Lehnert, W., The Process of Question Answering:a Computer Simulation of Cognition, LawrenceErlbaum, 1978.Mays, E., Joshi, A., Webber, B., Taking the Ini-tiative in Natural Language Database Interac-tions: Monitoring as Response, EACL?82, Orsay,France, 1982.Miltsakaki, E., Prasad, R., Joshi, A., Webber, B.,The Penn Discourse Treebank, LREC, 2004.Minock M, Chu W, Yang H, Chiang K, Chow, Gand Larson, C, CoBase: A Scalable and Exten-sible Cooperative Information System.
Journal ofIntelligent Information Systems, volume 6, num-ber 2/3,pp : 223-259, 1996.Netter, K., Armstrong, S., Kiss, T., Klein, J., DiET -Diagnostic and Evaluation Tools for Natural Lan-guage Applications,, Proceedings of 1st LREC,Granada.
?, 1998.Orasan, C., PALink: A Highly Customisable Toolfor Discourse Annotation, Paper from the SIGdialWorkshop, 2003.Ravinchandran, D., Hovy, E., Learning Surface TextPatterns for a Question Answering System, ACL2002, Philadelphia.Reiter, R., Dale, R., Building Applied Natural Lan-guage Generation Systems, Journal of NaturalLanguage Engineering, volume 3, number 1,pp:57-87, 1997.Searle, J., Indirect Speech Acts, in Cole and Morgan(eds), Syntax and Semantics III, Academic Press,1975.Strenston, J., Introduction to Spoken Dialog, Long-man, 1994.Webber, B., Gardent, C., Bos, J., Position State-ment: Inference in Question-Abswering, LRECproceedings, 2002.
