Multiple Indexing in an Electronic Kanji DictionaryJames BREENMonash UniversityClayton 3800, Australiajwb@csse.monash.edu.auAbstractKanji dictionaries, which need to present alarge number of complex characters in anorder that makes them accessible by users,traditionally use several indexing techniquesthat are particularly suited to the printedmedium.
Electronic dictionary technologyprovides the opportunity of both introducingnew indexing techniques that are notfeasible with printed dictionaries, and alsoallowing a wide range of index methodswith each dictionary.
It also allowsdictionaries to be interfaced at the characterlevel with documents and applications, thusremoving much of the requirement forcomplex index methods.
This paper surveysthe traditional indexing methods, introducessome of the new indexing techniques thathave become available with electronic kanjidictionaries, and reports on an analysis ofthe index usage patterns in a major WWW-based electronic kanji dictionary.
This isbelieved to be the first such analysisconducted and reported.1 IntroductionUnlike languages written in alphabetic,syllabic or similar scripts, languages such asJapanese and Chinese, which are writtenusing a large number of characters: hanzi inChinese, kanji in Japanese, require twodistinct sets of dictionaries.
These are:a. the traditional "word" dictionaries,as used in most recorded languages.
Suchdictionaries are usually ordered in somerecognized phonetic sequence, and typicallyinclude the pronunciation or reading of theword as well as the usual dictionarycomponents: part-of-speech, explanation.etc.b.
character dictionaries, whichtypically have an entry for each character,and contain such information as theclassification of the character according toshape, usage, components, etc., thepronunciation or reading of the character,variants of the character, the meaning orsemantic application of the character, andoften a selection of words demonstrating theuse of the character in the language'sorthography.
These dictionaries are usuallyordered on some visual characteristic of thecharacters.A typical learner of Japanese needs to haveboth forms of dictionary, and the process of"looking up" an unknown word ofteninvolves initially using the characterdictionary to determine the pronunciation ofone or more of the characters, then usingthat pronunciation as an index to a worddictionary, in a process that can be time-consuming and error-prone.The advent of electronic dictionaries has hada considerable impact on Japanesedictionary usage:a. it has facilitated the integration orassociation of character and worddictionaries such that a user can indexbetween them in a relatively straightforwardmanner.
This integration was pioneered bythe author in the early 1990s (Breen, 1995),and is now a common feature of almost allhand-held electronic Japanese dictionariesand PC-based dictionary packages;b. it has allowed the direct transfer ofwords between text documents anddictionary software, thus removing theoften-laborious character identification;c. for kanji dictionaries, it has greatlyincreased the number of character indexingmethods that can effectively be used, andhas also provided the opportunity for newindexing methods that are not available totraditional paper dictionaries.This paper will concentrate on the issuesassociated with Japanese kanji dictionaries.Many of these also apply to Chinese.2 Indexing a Kanji DictionaryThe general problem confronting thepublication of kanji dictionaries is the largenumber of kanji in use and the absence of anintrinsic and recognized lexical order forkanji.
In the post-war educational reforms inJapan, the number of kanji taught in schoolswas restricted to a basic 1,850, which hasnow been increased to 1,945.
This set ofkanji, along with a small set designated foruse in personal names, accounts for all but asmall proportion of kanji usage in modernJapanese.
Many dictionaries and similarreference books compiled for students arebased on this set (Sakade, 1961; Henshall,1988; Halpern, 1999; etc.).
The maincomputer character-set standard used inJapan, JIS X 0208 (JIS, 1997), whichextends to less-common kanji includingthose used in places-names, has 6,355 kanji.This set is the basis for several kanjidictionaries (Nelson, 1997; Spahn &Hadamitzky, 1996), while larger sets ofkanji are covered in many dictionaries, e.g.the Kodansha Daijiten (Ueda, 1963) has14,900 kanji and the 13-volume MorohashiDaikanwajiten (Morohashi, 1989) has over45,000 kanji.In this paper, the term "primary index" hasbeen used for the method of ordering thekanji entries, and "secondary index" hasbeen used for cross-reference lists of kanjibased on alternative ordering systems.The major traditional indexing technique forkanji and hanzi dictionaries has been theradical system (bushu in Japanese), based on214 elements plus about 150 variants.
Theseelements are graphic components of thecharacter that occur frequently enough to beused for indexing purposes.
For example,the kanji ?
(mura: village) is identified bythe ?
radical, and in a dictionary would begrouped with other kanji identified by thatradical (?, ?, ?, ?, etc.
), with thegrouped kanji ordered by the number ofstrokes in the remainder of the kanji.
Radicalsystems have been used in Chinese characterdictionaries for nearly 2,000 years, and thedominant 214-radical system was first usedin the ????
(kangxi zidian) published in1716.Virtually all major kanji dictionariespublished in Japan use the radical indexingmethod as the primary index, as do anumber of dictionaries published elsewhere.Some dictionaries use modified or reducedsets of radicals.
The technique is not simpleto use, and some skill and practice isrequired in correctly identifying the radicaland counting the residual strokes.
Thedifficulty has been compounded by recentsimplifications of the glyphs of the kanji,which in some cases have modified oreliminated the radical.There are a number of other techniques usedfor indexing kanji in a dictionary:a. reading.
The reading orpronunciation of a kanji is a common anduseful method of identification, and virtuallyall kanji dictionaries have a separatereading/kanji index.
The reading cannot beused effectively as the primary index, as inJapanese each kanji usually has two sets ofreadings, and some kanji have as many asfifteen distinct readings.b.
shape/stroke.
A number oftechniques have been used to decompose theshape of a kanji according to coded patterns.One, which was popular in China, is theFour-Corner code, which allocates a number(0-9) to the pattern of strokes at each cornerof the character, leading to a four-digitindex.
Another method, which is quitepopular, is the SKIP (System of KanjiIndexing by Patterns) used by Jack Halpernin his kanji dictionaries (Halpern, 1990,1999).
In this, a kanji is typically dividedinto two portions, and a code constructedfrom the division type and the stroke-countsin the portions.
Thus ?
has a SKIP code of1-4-3, indicating a vertical division into fourand three-stroke portions.c.
school grade.
In Japan the kanji tobe taught in each grade of elementary schoolare prescribed, and some references eitherorganize kanji in those groupings or providea secondary index of grades.d.
stroke count.
The number of pen orbrush strokes making up a kanji, rangingfrom one to over forty, can be an effectiveindexing technique, particularly for thesimpler kanji.
Some dictionaries employ asecondary index using the total number ofstrokes in a kanji.e.
frequency.
The ranking of kanjiaccording to frequency-of-use can be auseful secondary index, especially for thecommonly used kanji.f.
code-point.
The standardization ofcharacter set code-points for kanji has led tothe emergence of dictionaries with these asthe primary index.
The Sanseido UnicodeKanji Information Dictionary (Tanaka,2000) uses the Unicode code-point as theprimary index, and the first edition of theJIS Kanji Dictionary (Shibano, 1997) usedthe JIS X 0208 code-point.
It is interestingto note that the second edition (Shibano,2002) changed to the traditional radicalsystem, with the codepoints being relegatedto a secondary index.A summary of the indices available in aselection of dictionaries and references is inTable 1.
The "P" indicates the primary indexand an "S" indicates a secondary index.
(Theoriginal Nelson uses a slightly modifiedversion of the traditional radical index, andthe Spahn & Hadamitzky Kanji Dictionaryuses a simplified 79-radical system.Index TypeDictionary Radical Shape Code-point Grade Reading Frequency Stroke OrderMorohashi (1989) P       SUeda (1963) P       SNelson (1974) P*     S S   SNelson (1997) P     S SS&H (1996) P*       SS&H (1997) S       S P SHalpern (1990) S P   S S SHalpern (1999) S P     S SSakade (1961)       P SHenshall (1988)       P S   SShibano (1997)     P   SShibano (2002) P   S   STanaka (2000) S   PTable 1: Index Types in Printed Kanji Dictionaries.3 Electronic Kanji DictionariesAs mentioned above, electronic kanjidictionaries have an increased number ofindexing methods available, and inparticular have navigational advantages overtraditional paper dictionaries:a. the concept of a "secondary" indexno longer applies, as every index is capableof linking directly to the kanji entries;b. dictionary users can choose flexiblybetween index methods according topreference, and can select a methodappropriate to the characteristics of anindividual kanji;c. the above-mentioned capability toindex directly to a kanji entry from a kanjiselected from a text or application;d. suitable GUIs can enhance the kanjilookup process by providing visual cues anda degree of interactivity.Figures 1 and 2 show the GUIs for the bushuand SKIP methods in the kanji dictionarymodule of the JWPce word-processor(Rosenthal, 2002).Fig.
1: Bushu Lookup GUIFig.
2: SKIP Lookup GUIAmong the new indexing methodsintroduced with electronic kanji dictionariesare:a. indexing using the meaning of akanji.
The compilation of the KANJIDICdatabase (Breen 2004), which contains theEnglish meanings for over 12,000 kanji, hasenabled this technique to be employed.Searching for kanji meaning "castle"immediately gives ?, "fox" gives ?, etc.b.
multi-radical searching.
Most kanjiare made up of several basic shapes drawnfrom a set of about 300 patterns.
Forexample, the kanji ?
(atarashii: new)consists of the ?, ?
and ?
patterns.Clearly, a traditional dictionary can only useone of these as an index (the index radical of?
is ?)
but an electronic dictionary can useall the patterns to identify a kanji.
A file ofthe visual components of the 6,355 kanji inthe JIS X 0208 standard was prepared by ateam of volunteers and is currentlymaintained by the author.
The patterns usedare similar to the traditional 214 radicals, butinclude common shapes such as ?
and ?that are not among the 214, anddistinguishes between shapes such as ?
and?
that are regarded as variants of the sameradical.
The following is an extract from thefile of kanji with the radical componentsidentified.?
: ?
??
: ?
?
??
: ?
?
??
: ?
?
?
?
?This file is inverted, enabling dictionarysoftware to identify the kanji containing aparticular selection of radicals.
Figure 3shows the multi-radical lookup GUI inJWPce, having identified the ?
kanji fromits components.Fig.
3: Multi-radical Lookup GUINew indexing techniques, such as thosedescribed above, have to date been largelyconfined to non-commercial packages basedon the author's KANJIDIC project files(Breen, 2004).
The commercial electronickanji dictionaries in Japan, which aretypically based on published kanjidictionaries, usually only provide radical,reading and occasionally stroke-countindices.4 Usage Patterns in an Electronic KanjiDictionaryThe availability of a large range of indexingtechniques in an electronic kanji dictionaryraises the question of how useful theyactually are to users of such dictionaries, andwhich methods are preferred by users.
Withdictionaries provided as software packages,measurement of the usage of the differingindexing techniques would be limited tosuch things as surveys of users.
To date noanalysis appears to have been carried out onuser preferences in indexing methods.One form of electronic kanji dictionarywhich is amenable to the directmeasurement of usage patterns is the kanjidictionary component of WWW-basedJapanese dictionary, such as the WWWJDICserver (Breen, 2003) developed by theauthor.
The WWWJDIC server providesover twenty indices to its database of over13,000 kanji, including all the techniquesmentioned earlier in this paper.
The usersare primarily students of Japanese and non-native speakers of Japanese.The server code at the Monash Universitysite was extended to provide detailedstatistics of the accesses to the kanjidictionary module.
Information wascollected over a two-week period, duringwhich time over 70,000 accesses to the kanjidictionary were made.
Table 2 contains abreakdown of the accesses by index type.
Inthe case of accesses using the multi-radicalmethod, it is clear that users frequently haveto make several selections of radicals toreach the correct kanji.
From inspection ofthe raw statistics, it appeared that on averagethree accesses were made by each user ofthis method for each target kanji.Accordingly, the reported accesses for thismethod have been reduced to make a moremeaningful comparison with the othermethods.
The "Direct" method involvesaccess to the kanji in a word encountered inanother dictionary function, whereas the"Cut-Paste" method refers to kanjitransferred from another WWW page orapplication.Access Method Access %Multi-radical 24.8Reading (ja) 24.1Direct 17.6Cut-Paste 9.7English Meaning 9.2Code-Point 6.4Stroke Count 2.8Reading (cn,ko) 1.5Radical/Bushu 1.4SKIP, 4-Corner 1.3Dictionary Index 0.6Other 0.6Table 2: Kanji Access Statistics(In 20.3% of the accesses recorded in Table2, the user opted to make a follow-on searchof one of the "word" dictionaries on theserver using a kanji as a search key.
)These results are interesting for a number ofreasons:a. the index methods which dominateare either those which have only becomeavailable with electronic dictionaries: multi-radical, direct access, English meaning, etc.,or those which can only be used via asecondary index in traditional dictionaries.b.
the high levels of access based onthe code-points of the kanji, which includesthe Direct, Cut-Paste and Code-Pointmethods is an indication of the usefulness ofoperating an electronic dictionary inassociation with other software.
Therelatively high result for the Code-Pointmethod, which involves supplying the serverwith the hexadecimal representation of thekanji's code, was investigated further.
Over60% of these accesses used the Unicodecode-point, and on inspection of the serverlogs it transpired that most arrived aslinkages from other WWW servers anddatabase collections dealing with kanji andhanzi.c.
the relatively low usage of thetraditional radical index and the SKIPmethod is an indication that while they maybe suitable and accepted in paperdictionaries as the primary indices, they playonly a minor role in electronic dictionaries,where users clearly find other methods moreuseful.It is recognized that this survey of usagepatterns reflects both the preferences of theparticular set of users who have chosen touse it, and the biases introduced by theinterface, which in the case of HTML formsis often not as easily used as, for example, atailored GUI.
It is, however, a strongindication of the sorts of indexing methodswhich are found to be useful by such agroup.
It is also worth noting that despite theclumsiness of the Multi-radical selectionform, which has over 200 check-boxes, it isclearly among the most popular kanji indexmethods.5 ConclusionKanji dictionaries have traditionally beenpublished using indexing techniquesdeveloped for use in the printed medium.Electronic dictionary techniques provide theopportunity both to interface suchdictionaries directly with text, and also tointroduce new techniques more suited to thecomputer-human interface.
Implementationof such techniques and the subsequentmeasurement of their usage in anenvironment where users can choose from avariety of indexing methods indicates a highlevel of acceptance of and preference for thenew indexing techniques.ReferencesBreen, J.W.
1995.
Building an ElectronicJapanese-English Dictionary, JSAAConference, Brisbane.Breen, J.W.
2003.
A WWW JapaneseDictionary, in "Language Teaching at theCrossroads", Monash Asia Institute,Monash University PressBreen, J.W.
2004.
KANJIDIC - KanjiDatabase Project,http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/~jwb/kanjidic.htmlRosenthal, G. 2002.
JWPce: Japanese WordProcessorhttp://www.physics.ucla.edu/~grosenth/jwpce.htmlHalpern, J.
1990.
New Japanese-EnglishCharacter Dictionary, Kenkyusha/NTC.Halpern, J.
1999.
Kanji Learner'sDictionary, KodanshaHenshall, K.G.
1988.
A Guide toRemembering Japanese Characters,Tuttle.Japanese Industrial Standards Committee.1997.
JIS X 0208-1997 7-bit and 8-bitCoded Kanji Sets for InformationInterchange, Japanese StandardsAssociation.Morohashi, T. et al (1989) Daikanwa Jiten,(Large Character Dictionary), Taishukan.Nelson, A.N.
1974.
The Modern Reader'sJapanese-English Character Dictionary,(second revised edition), Tuttle.Nelson, A.N.
revised Haig, J.H.
1997.
TheNew Nelson Japanese-English CharacterDictionary, Tuttle.Sakade, F. et al 1961.
A Guide to Reading& Writing Japanese, (second edition),Tuttle.Shibano, K. et al 1997, 2002.
JIS KanjiDictionary, (first and second editions),Japan Standards Association.Spahn, M. & Hadamitzky, W. 1996.
TheKanji Dictionary, Tuttle.Spahn, M. & Hadamitzky, W. 1997.
Kanji &Kana: A Handbook of the JapaneseWriting System Tuttle.Tanaka, Y. et al 2000.
Unicode KanjiInformation Dictionary, Sanseido.Ueda, K. et al 1963.
Daijiten, (LargeCharacter Dictionary), Kodansha.
