Text-mining Needs and Solutions for the Biomolecular Interaction NetworkDatabase (BIND)Ian DonaldsonBlueprint Initiative, Mount Sinai HospitalToronto, OntarioCanadaian.donaldson@mshri.on.caProteomics represents a collection of experimental approaches that may be used toinvestigate biological systems.
Such approaches commonly produce vast amounts of data thatrelate to physical interactions between biomolecules.
One challenge in extracting usefulinformation from these data is determining how they relate to current knowledge.The goal of the BIND database (Biomolecular Interaction Network Database) is to curateand archive these interaction data from the literature using a standard data representation so thatthey may be effectively used for knowledge discovery (http://bind.ca) (Bader et al, 2001; Baderand Hogue, 2000).
This database facilitates placing experimental data into context.For instance, a biologist may be presented with evidence suggesting that several differentproteins may interact with their protein of interest.
One of the first obvious questions is; ?Is thereany evidence to support any of these potential interactions??
These questions may be answeredusing a number of approaches.
For each of the potential interactions:1) Are there any matching interaction records in BIND or some other interaction database?2) Are there any interaction records that involve proteins with similar sequences?3) Are there any interaction records that involve proteins with similar conserved domain profiles?4) Is the potential interaction likely given the Gene Ontology annotation associated with the twointeracting proteins?5) What are the synonyms for the two potential interactors and do these synonyms ever co-occurin the literature.Answering each of these questions requires addressing a number of technical issues,which, in principal, are trivial.
However, in practice, it is non-trivial to solve all of theseproblems to completion and to solve them consistently.
Failing to do so means that knowledgethat may support a potential interaction will be lost.
This is unacceptable since much ofproteomics is about filtering meaningful data away from noise.Interestingly, solving these questions is also of interest to text-miners.
Mentions of anytwo proteins in text may be viewed as a potential interaction.
A set of potential interactions maybe sorted according to the answers to the above questions.I will describe here, the ongoing efforts to incorporate the functionality of a text-miningtool called PreBIND (Donaldson et al, 2003) into a larger bioinformatics applicationprogramming platform called SeqHound.
This platform already incorporates the NCBI?sGenBank sequence database, Molecular Modelling Database, LocusLink and Conserved Domaindatabase as well as functional annotation from the Gene Ontology consortium and (in the nearfuture) interaction data from BIND (the Biomolecular Interaction Network Database).
SeqHoundis freely available via a web-interface and an application programming interface in C, C++, PERLand Java (http://seqhound.blueprint.org)(Michalickova et al, 2002).
I envision that this systemwill be used by biologists to examine interaction data from high-throughput proteomics studies.Association for Computational Linguistics.Linking Biological Literature, Ontologies and Databases, pp.
50-51.HLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop: Biolink 2004,In addition, it may also be used by text-miners to help generate and submit preliminary BINDrecords to the BIND database.ReferencesBader, G. D., Donaldson, I., Wolting, C., Ouellette, B. F., Pawson, T., and Hogue, C. W. (2001).BIND--The Biomolecular Interaction Network Database.
Nucleic Acids Res 29, 242-245.Bader, G. D., and Hogue, C. W. (2000).
BIND--a data specification for storing and describingbiomolecular interactions, molecular complexes and pathways.
Bioinformatics 16, 465-477.Donaldson, I., Martin, J., De Bruijn, B., Wolting, C., Lay, V., Tuekam, B., Zhang, S., Baskin, B.,Bader, G. D., Michalickova, K., et al (2003).
PreBIND and Textomy - mining the biomedicalliterature for protein-protein interactions using a support vector machine.
BMC Bioinformatics 4,11.Michalickova, K., Bader, G. D., Dumontier, M., Lieu, H. C., Betel, D., Isserlin, R., and Hogue, C.W.
(2002).
SeqHound: biological sequence and structure database as a platform forbioinformatics research.
BMC Bioinformatics 3, 32.
