Urdu Localization Project: Lexicon, MT and TTS (ULP)Sarmad HUSSAINCenter for Research in Urdu Language Processing,National University of Computer and Emerging SciencesB Block, Faisal TownLahore, Pakistansarmad.hussain@nu.edu.pkAbstractPakistan has a population of 140 millionspeaking more than 56 different languages.Urdu is the lingua franca of these people, asmany speak Urdu as a second language, alsothe national language of Pakistan.
Being adeveloping population, Pakistani people needaccess to information.
Most of theinformation over the ICT infrastructure is onlyavailable in English and only 5-10% of thesepeople are familiar with English.
Therefore,Government of Pakistan has embarked on aproject which will generate software toautomatically translate the informationavailable in English to Urdu.
The project willalso be able to convert Urdu text to speech toextend this information to the illiteratepopulation as well.
This paper overviews theoverall architecture of the project and providesbriefs on the three components of this project,namely Urdu Lexicon, English to UrduMachine Translation System and Urdu Text toSpeech System.1 IntroductionIn today?s information age it is critical to provideaccess to information to people for theirdevelopment.
One precursor to this access isavailability of information in the native languages.Due to limitations in technology, it has not beenpossible to generate information in manylanguages of the world.
However, with recentadvances in internationalization and localizationtechnology, many languages are not enabled.However, as this is recent development, thepublished content in these languages is stilllimited, and far lags behind the content availablefor English, Spanish and some other languagesspoken in developed countries.
Realizing this gapin content and the need to provide access toinformation to its citizens, Government of Pakistanhas recently launched Urdu Localization Project1.1 Urdu Localization Project is a three-year initiativebeing undertaken by Center for Research in UrduLanguage Processing (www.crulp.org) and is fundedThis project will enable translation and access ofEnglish content to literate and illiterate Urduspeakers.Urdu Localization Project aims to provide accessto existing English language content to Urdulanguage speakers.
The project has threecomponents: Urdu Computational Lexicon,English-to-Urdu Machine Translation System,Urdu Text-to-Speech system.
This paper brieflydescribes the architecture and work achieved to-date for different systems within ULP.2 ULP ArchitectureAs indicated, ULP comprises of three largelyindependent systems: Lexicon, MT and TTS,though these components may also be integrated todevelop a written and oral interface to information.The project has three architectural layers.
At thebase are the core data and engines for Lexicon, MTand TTS.
The middle layer provides publicprogramming interfaces to these engines (APIs) sothat they may be integrated with end-userapplications at the top layer or used by third-partyapplications.
Both the engine and API layercomponents are being developed in standardC/C++ to enable them to compile on all platforms(e.g.
Microsoft, Linux, Unix).
The user-end/toplayer has to be technology centric and is currentlybeing enabled in Microsoft platform.
The lexiconwill be given a web interface for user access.
Inaddition, plug-ins for internet and email clients willbe developed for MT and TTS to enable end-usersto translate and re-display English websites inUrdu and also enable them to convert the translatedUrdu text to speech.
This is shown in Figure 1below.
In the figure the layers and systems aredemarcated (horizontally and verticallyrespectively).
The figure also shows that MT andTTS may be using the Lexicon through the APIsfor getting appropriate data.through a grant by E-Government Directorate ofMinistry of IT&Telecom., Government of Pakistan.Figure 1: Architecture Diagram for ULPThese three systems are discussed briefly below.2.1 Urdu LexiconUrdu Computational Lexicon being designedwould be holding more than 25 dimensions of asingle headword.
The first task to date has been todetermine this hierarchical storage structure.
Thestructure required for end-user has been finalized.However, requirements for computationalapplications, e.g.
MT, are still being finalized.This was perhaps one of the most challenging tasksas there are currently no standards which exist,although some guidelines are available.
Inaddition, Urdu also had some additionalrequirements (e.g.
multiple plural forms,depending on whether the word is derived fromArabic or Sanskrit).
Entries of more than thirtythousand headwords and complete entry of about athousand headwords along with specification of atleast 15 entries has already been done.
Currentlymore content is being generated.
In addition, workis under progress to define the physical structure ofthe lexicon (e.g.
storage and retrieval models).The prototype showing this application is alsoavailable in Microsoft platform.2.2 English-Urdu Machine TranslationWork is under progress to develop English toUrdu MT engine.
The translation is based on LFGformalism and is developing grammars, lexica andthe parsing/mapping/generation engine for LFG.Mapping and Generation prototypes have alreadybeen developed and are integrated with a freelyavailable LFG parser for internal testing.
Inaddition sample grammars for English, Urdu andEnglish-Urdu mapping have also been written.The prototype covers about 10 percent ofgrammatical rules and already translates within thelimited vocabulary of the engine.
The work isbeing extended to write the parser and rewritemapper and generator and to develop English,Urdu and English Urdu grammars and lexica.2.3 Urdu Text to Speech SystemThe Urdu TTS is divided into two main part, theUrdu Natural Language Processor and UrduSpeech Synthesizer.
The work on NLP iscompleted (except the intonational module, onwhich preliminary work has been completed).
TheNLP processor inputs Urdu Unicode text andoutput narrow phonetic transcription with syllableand stress markers.
The NLP processor isintegrated with Festival speech synthesis system(though by-passes its NLP module).
A vocabularyof about 500 words is already defined at thediphones have been created.
Prototype applicationis already developed which synthesized thesesingle words.
Work is currently in progress todefine Urdu intonational and durational model.
Inaddition, work is also under progress to extend thevocabulary and functionality to synthesizecomplete sentences.
The functional prototypeworks on both Linux an Microsoft platforms.3 ConclusionMost of the work being done in the project isnovel.
Urdu language is not very well defined foruse with computers.
Script, speech and languageaspects of Urdu are being studied, documented andimplemented in this project.
The project is alsotesting the work which has been matured onwestern languages but only being recently exposedto other languages, e.g.
the lexicalrecommendations by ISLE, LFG framework, useof LFG for MT, speech modeling of Urdu (bothspectral and temporal) and more.
Non-functionalissues including performance are also beingnegotiated.
Pre-compiled lexica, user-centric pre-stored performance-enhancing profiles andfrequency lists, etc.
are part of the architecturaltasks being addressed.
Though only initial workhas been done, this work in itself is substantial, andhas raised many questions which will be answeredas the project progresses.MTEngineLexiconEngineTTSEngineMT API LexiconAPITTS APIWebsite/EmailTranslatorOnlineUrduDictionaryWebsite/EmailReaderEnd User Third PartyApplications
