Prague Czech-English Dependency TreebankAny Hopes for a Common Annotation Scheme?Martin ?Cmejrek, Jan Cur??
?n, Jir???
HavelkaInstitute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsFaculty of Mathematics and Physics, Charles University in PragueMalostranske?
na?m.
25, Praha 1, Czech{cmejrek,curin,havelka}@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractThe Prague Czech-English Dependency Tree-bank (PCEDT) is a new syntactically annotatedCzech-English parallel resource.
The PennTreebank has been translated to Czech, and itsannotation automatically transformed into de-pendency annotation scheme.
The dependencyannotation of Czech is done from plain text byautomatic procedures.
A small subset of cor-responding Czech and English sentences hasbeen annotated by humans.
We discuss someof the problems we have experienced duringthe automatic transformation between annota-tion schemes and hint at some of the difficultiesto be tackled by potential guidelines for depen-dency annotation of English.1 IntroductionThe Prague Czech-English Dependency Treebank(PCEDT) is a project of creating a Czech-Englishsyntactically annotated parallel corpus motivated byresearch in the field of machine translation.
Parallel dataare needed for designing, training, and evaluation of bothstatistical and rule-based machine translation systems.Since Czech is a language with relatively high degreeof word-order freedom, and its sentences contain certainsyntactic phenomena, such as discontinuous constituents(non-projective constructions), which cannot be straight-forwardly handled using the annotation scheme of PennTreebank (Marcus et al, 1993; Linguistic Data Consor-tium, 1999), based on phrase-structure trees, we decidedto adopt for the PCEDT the dependency-based annotationscheme of the Prague Dependency Treebank ?
PDT (Lin-guistic Data Consortium, 2001).
The PDT is annotatedon three levels: morphological layer (lowest), analyticlayer (middle) ?
surface syntactic annotation, and tec-togrammatical layer (highest) ?
level of linguistic mean-ing.
Dependency trees, representing the sentence struc-ture as concentrated around the verb and its valency, areused for the analytical and tectogrammatical levels, asproposed by Functional Generative Description (Sgall etal., 1986).In Section 2, we describe the process of translating thePenn Treebank into Czech.
Section 3 sketches the gen-eral procedure for transforming phrase topology of PennTreebank into dependency structure and describes thespecific conversions into analytical and tectogrammaticalrepresentations.
The following Section 4 describes theautomatic process of parsing of Czech into analytical rep-resentation and its automatic conversion into tectogram-matical representation.
Section 5 briefly discusses someof the problems of annotation from the point of view ofmutual compatibility of annotation schemes.
Section 6gives an overview of additional resources included in thePCEDT.2 English to Czech Translation of PennTreebankWhen starting the PCEDT project, we chose the latter oftwo possible strategies: either the parallel annotation ofalready existing parallel texts, or the translation and anno-tation of an existing syntactically annotated corpus.
Thechoice of the Penn Treebank as the source corpus wasalso pragmatically motivated: firstly it is a widely rec-ognized linguistic resource, and secondly the translatorswere native speakers of Czech, capable of high qualitytranslation into their native language.The translators were asked to translate each Englishsentence as a single Czech sentence and to avoid unneces-sary stylistic changes of translated sentences.
The trans-lations are being revised on two levels, linguistic and fac-tual.
About half of the Penn Treebank has been translatedso far (currently 21,628 sentences), the project aims attranslating the whole Wall Street Journal part of the PennTreebank.DTAnNP-SBJ-1NNearthquakeVBDstruckJJNorthernNPNNPCaliforniaVP,,NP-SBJ-NONE-*-1SS-ADVVBGkillingJJRmoreVPQPINthanCD50NPNNSpeople..Figure 1: Penn Treebank annotation of the sentence ?An earthquake struck Northern California, killing more than 50people.
?For the purpose of quantitative evaluation methods,such as NIST or BLEU, for measuring performance oftranslation systems, we selected a test set of 515 sen-tences and had them retranslated from Czech into En-glish by 4 different translator offices, two of them fromthe Czech Republic and two of them from the U.S.A.3 Transformation of Penn TreebankPhrase Trees into Dependency StructureThe transformation algorithm from phrase-structuretopology into dependency one, similar to transformationsdescribed by Xia and Palmer (2001), works as follows:?
Terminal nodes of the phrase are converted to nodesof the dependency tree.?
Dependencies between nodes are established recur-sively: The root node of the dependency tree trans-formed from the head constituent of a phrase be-comes the governing node.
The root nodes of thedependency trees transformed from the right and leftsiblings of the head constituent are attached as theleft and right children (dependent nodes) of the gov-erning node, respectively.?
Nodes representing traces are removed and theirchildren are reattached to the parent of the trace.3.1 Preprocessing of Penn TreebankSeveral preprocessing steps preceded the transformationinto both analytical and tectogrammatical representa-tions.Marking of Heads in EnglishThe concept of the head of a phrase is important dur-ing the tranformation described above.
For markinghead constituents in each phrase, we used Jason Eisner?sscripts.Lemmatization of EnglishCzech is an inflective language, rich in morphology,therefore lemmatization (assigning base forms) is indis-pensable in almost any linguistic application.
Mostly forreasons of symmetry with Czech data and compatibilitywith the dependency annotation scheme, the English partwas automatically lemmatized by the morpha tool (Min-nen et al, 2001) using manually assigned POS tags of thePenn Treebank.Unique IdentificationFor technical reasons, a unique identifier is assigned toeach sentence and to each token of Penn Treebank.3.2 English Analytical Dependency TreesThis section describes the automatic process of convert-ing Penn Treebank annotation into analytical representa-tion.Sent.
#1AuxSanAtrearthquakeSbstruckPredNorthernAtrCaliforniaObj,AuxXkillingAdvmoreAtrthanAuxP50AtrpeopleObj.AuxKFigure 2: Analytical tree for the sentence ?An earthquakestruck Northern California, killing more than 50 people.
?The structural transformation works as describedabove.
Because the handling of coordination in PDT isdifferent from the Penn Treebank annotation style andthe output of Jason Eisner?s head assigning scripts, inthe case of a phrase containing a coordinating conjunc-tion (CC), we consider the rightmost CC as the head.
Thetreatment of apposition is a more difficult task, since thereis no explicit annotation of this phenomenon in the PennTreebank; constituents of a noun phrase enclosed in com-mas or other delimiters (and not containing CC) are con-sidered to be in apposition and the rightmost delimiterbecomes the head.The information from both the phrase tree and the de-pendency tree is used for the assignment of analyticalfunctions:?
Penn Treebank function tag to analytical functionmapping: some function tags of a phrase tree corre-spond to analytic functions in an analytical tree andcan be mapped to them:SBJ ?
Sb,{DTV, LGS, BNF, TPC, CLR} ?
Obj,{ADV, DIR, EXT, LOC, MNR, PRP, TMP, PUT} ?
Adv.?
Assignment of analytical functions using local con-text of a node: for assigning analytical functions tothe remaining nodes, we use rules looking at the cur-rent node, its parent and grandparent, taking into ac-count POS and the phrase marker of the constituentin the original phrase tree headed by the node.
Forexample, the rulemPOS = DT|mAF = AtrearthquakeACTstrikePREDnorthernRSTRCaliforniaPAT&Cor;ACTkillCOMPLmoreCPR50RSTRpeoplePATFigure 3: Tectogrammatical tree for the sentence ?Anearthquake struck Northern California, killing more than50 people.
?assigns the analytical function Atr to every deter-miner, the rulemPOS = MD|pPOS = VB|mAF = AuxVassigns the function tag AuxV to a modal verbheaded by a verb, etc.
The attribute mPOS repre-senting the POS of a node is obligatory for everyrule.
The rules are examined primarily in the orderof the longest prefix of the POS of the given nodeand secondarily in the order as they are listed in therule file.
The ordering of rules is important, sincethe first matching rule found assigns the analyticalfunction and the search is finished.Specifics of the PDT and Penn Treebank annotationschemes, mainly the markup of coordinations, apposi-tions, and prepositional phrases are handled separately:?
Coordinations and appositions: the analytical func-tion that was originally assigned to the head of acoordination or apposition is propagated to its childnodes by attaching the suffix Co or Ap to them, andthe head node gets the analytical function Coord orApos, respectively.?
Prepositional phrases: the analytical function origi-nally assigned to the preposition node is propagatedto its child and the preposition node is labeled AuxP.?
Sentences in the PDT annotation style always con-tain a root node labeled AuxS, which, as the only onein the dependency tree, does not correspond to anyterminal of the phrase tree; the root node is insertedSent.
#1zem?t?esen?Sbzas?hloPredsevern?AtrKaliforniiObjaCoordusmrtiloPredv?ceAdvne?AuxC50Advlid?Atr.AuxKFigure 4: Analytical tree for the Czech translation?Zeme?tr?esen??
zasa?hlo severn??
Kalifornii a usmrtilo v??cenez?
50 lid??.
?above the original root.
While in the Penn Treebankthe final punctuation is a constituent of the sentencephrase, in the analytical tree it is moved under thetechnical sentence root node.Compare the phrase structure and the analytical repre-sentation of a sample sentence from the Penn Treebankin Figures 1 and 2.3.3 English Tectogrammatical Dependency TreesThe transformation of Penn Treebank phrase trees intotectogrammatical representation consists of a structuraltransformation, and an assignment of a tectogrammat-ical functor and a set of grammatemes to each node.At the beginning of the structural transformation, theinitial dependency tree is created by a general transfor-mation procedure as described above.
However, func-tional (synsemantic) words, such as prepositions, punc-tuation marks, determiners, subordinating conjunctions,certain particles, auxiliary and modal verbs are handleddifferently.
They are marked as ?hidden?
and informationabout them is stored in special attributes of their govern-ing nodes (if they were to head a phrase, the head of theother constituent became the governing node in the de-pendency tree).The well-formedness of a tectogrammatical tree struc-ture requires the valency frames to be complete: apartfrom nodes that are realized on surface, there are severaltypes of ?restored?
nodes representing the non-realizedmembers of valency frames (cf.
pro-drop property of_ _zem?t?esen?ACTearthquakezas?hnoutPRED COstrikesevern?RSTRnorthernKaliforniePATCaliforniaaCONJandusmrtitPRED COkillv?ceEXTmore_than50CPR50?lov?kPATmanFigure 5: Tectogrammatical tree for the Czech translation?Zeme?tr?esen??
zasa?hlo severn??
Kalifornii a usmrtilo v??cenez?
50 lid??.
?Czech and verbal condensations using gerunds and in-finitives both in Czech and English).
For a partial recon-struction of such nodes, we can use traces, which allowus to establish coreferential links, or restore general par-ticipants in the valency frames.For the assignment of tectogrammatical functors, wecan use rules taking into consideration POS tags (e.g.PRP ?
APP), function tags (JJ ?
RSTR, JJR ?
CPR,etc.)
and lemma (?not?
?
RHEM, ?both?
?
RSTR).Grammateme Assignment ?
morphological gram-matemes (e.g.
tense, degree of comparison) are assignedto each node of the tectogrammatical tree.
The assign-ment of the morphological attributes is based on Pen-nTreebank tags and reflects basic morphological proper-ties of the language.
At the moment, there are no auto-matic tools for the assignment of syntactic grammatemes,which are designed to capture detailed information aboutdeep syntactic structure.The whole procedure is described in detail inKuc?erova?
and ?Zabokrtsky?
(2002).In order to gain a ?gold standard?
annotation, 1,257sentences have been annotated manually (the 515 sen-tences from the test set are among them).
These dataare assigned morphological gramatemes (the full set ofvalues) and syntactic grammatemes, and the nodes arereordered according to topic-focus articulation (informa-tion structure).The quality of the automatic transformation proceduredescribed above, based on comparison with manually an-JJSuchNP-SBJ-1NNSloansVBPremainJJclassifiedADJP-PRDINasPPADJPJJnon-accruingVP,,NP-SBJ-NONE-*-1VBGcostingSDTtheNPNNbankS-ADVVP$$QPCD10CDmillionNP-NONE-*U*..Figure 6: Penn Treebank annotation of the sentence ?Such loans remain classified as non-accruing, costing the bank$10 million.
?notated trees, is about 6% of wrongly aimed dependen-cies and 18% of wrongly assigned functors.See Figure 3 for the manually annotated tectogrammat-ical representation of the sample sentence.4 Automatic Annotation of CzechThe Czech translations of Penn Treebank were auto-matically tokenized and morphologically tagged, eachword form was assigned a base form ?
lemma byHajic?
and Hladka?
(1998) tagging tools.Czech analytical parsing consists of a statisticaldependency parser for Czech ?
either Collins parser(Collins et al, 1999) or Charniak parser (Charniak,1999), both adapted to dependency grammar ?
anda module for automatic analytical function assignment( ?Zabokrtsky?
et al, 2002).When building the tectogrammatical structure, theanalytical tree structure is converted into the tectogram-matical one.
These transformations are described by lin-guistic rules (Bo?hmova?, 2001).
Then, tectogrammaticalfunctors are assigned by a C4.5 classifier ( ?Zabokrtsky?
etal., 2002).The test set of 515 sentences (which have been retrans-lated into English) has been also manually annotated ontectogrammatical level.See Figures 4 and 5 for automatic analytical and man-ual tectogrammatical annotation of the Czech translationof the sample sentence.suchRSTRloanACTremainPRED&Cor;ACTclassifyPATnon-accruingCPR&Cor;ACTcostCOMPLbankADDR$PAT10RSTRmillionRSTRFigure 7: Tectogrammatical tree for the sentence ?Suchloans remain classified as non-accruing, costing the bank$10 million.
?5 Problems of Dependency Annotation ofEnglishThe manual annotation of 1,257 English sentences on tec-togrammatical level was, to our knowledge, the first at-tempt of its kind, and was based especially on the instruc-tions for tectogrammatical annotation of Czech.
Duringthe process of annotation, we have experienced both phe-nomena that do not occur in Czech at all, and phenomena_ _&Gen;ACTobdobn?RSTRsuch?v?rPATloannad?leTHLstillklasifikovatPRED COclasify&Neg;RHEMvyn?
?ej?c?EFFaccruing&Comma;CONJco?ACTwhichbankaPATbankst?tPRED COcost10RSTR10mili?nEXTmilliondolarMATdollarFigure 8: Tectogrammatical tree for the Czech trans-lation ?Obdobne?
u?ve?ry jsou nada?le klasifikova?ny jakonevyna?s?ej??c?
?, coz?
banku sta?lo 10 milionu?
dolaru?.
?whose counterparts in Czech occur rarely, and thereforeare not handeled thoroughly by the guidelines for tec-togrammatical annotation designed for Czech.
To men-tion just a few, among the former belongs the annotationof articles, certain aspects of the system of verbal tenses,and phrasal verbs.
A specimen of a roughly correspond-ing phenomenon occurring both in Czech and English isthe gerund.
It is a very common means of condensationin English, but its counterpart in Czech (usually calledtransgressive) has fallen out of use and is nowadays con-sidered rather obsolete.The guidelines for Czech require the transgressive tobe annotated with the functor COMPL.
The reason why it ishighly problematic to apply them straightforwardly alsoto the annotation of English, is that the English gerundhas a much wider range of functions than the Czech trans-gressive.
The gerund can be seen as a means of con-densing subordinated clauses with in principle adverbialmeaning (as it is analyzed in the phrase-structure annota-tion of Penn Treebank).
Since the range of functors withadverbial meaning is much more fine-grained, we deem itinappropriate to mark the gerund clauses in such a simpleway on the tectogrammatical level.From the point of view of machine translation, thegerund constructions pose considerable difficulties be-cause of the many syntactic constructions suitable as theirtranslations corresponding to their varied syntactic func-tions.We present two examples illustrating the issues men-tioned above.
Each example consists of three figures, thefirst one presenting the Penn Treebank annotation of a (inthe second case simplified) sentence from the Penn Tree-bank, the second one giving its tentative tectogrammaticrepresentation (according to the guidelines for Czech ap-plied to English), and the third one containing the tec-JJcommonADJPCCandVBNpreferredNPNNstockNNpurchaseNNSrightsFigure 9: Penn Treebank annotation of the noun phrase?common and preferred stock purchase rights?.togrammatical representation of its translation into Czech(see Figures 1, 3, 5, and Figures 6, 7, 8).
Note that in nei-ther of the two examples the Czech transgressive is usedas the translation of the English gerund; a coordinationstructure is used instead.On the other hand, we have also experienced phenom-ena in English whose Penn Treebank style of annotationis insufficient for a successfull conversion into depen-dency representation.In English, the usage of constructions with nominalpremodification is very frequent, and the annotation ofsuch noun phrases in the Penn Treebank is often flat,grouping together several constituents without reflectingfiner syntactic and semantic relations among them (seeFigure 9 for an example of such a noun phrase).
In fact,the possible syntactic and especially semantic relationsbetween the members of the noun phrase can be highlyambiguous, but when translating such a noun phrase intoCzech, we are not usually able to preserve the ambiguityand are forced to resolve it by choosing one of the read-ings (see Figure 10).Sometimes we even may be forced to insert new wordsexplicitly expressing the semantic relations within thenominal group.
An example of an English noun phraseand the tectogrammatical representation of its Czechtranslation with an inserted word ?podnikaj??c???
(?operat-ing?)
can be found in Figures 11 and 12.6 Other Resources Included in PCEDT6.1 Reader?s Digest Parallel CorpusReader?s Digest parallel corpus contains raw text in53,000 aligned segments in 450 articles from the Reader?sDigest, years 1993?1996.
The Czech part is a free trans-lation of the English version.
The final selection ofdata has been done manually, excluding articles whosetranslations significantly differ (in length, culture-specificfacts, etc.).
Parallel segments on sentential level havebeen aligned by Dan Melamed?s aligning tool (Melamed,DTaNNPSanNNPFranciscoNNfoodNNSproductsCCandNPNNbuildingNNSmaterialsNNmarketingCCandNNdistributionNNcompanyFigure 11: Penn Treebank annotation of the noun phrase ?a San Francisco food products and building materialsmarketing and distribution company?._ _pr?voPATrightn?kupPATpurchaseoby  ejn?RSTRcommonakciePAT COstockaCONJandprioritn?RSTRpreferredakciePAT COstockFigure 10: Tectogrammatical tree for the Czech transla-tion ?pra?vo na na?kup obyc?ejny?ch a prioritn?
?ch akci???.1996).
The topology is 1?1 (81%), 0?1 or 1?0 (2%), 1?2or 2?1 (15%), 2?2 (1%), and others (1%).6.2 DictionariesThe PCEDT comprises also a translation dictionary com-piled from three different Czech-English manual dictio-naries: two of them were downloaded form the Web andone was extracted from Czech and English EuroWord-Nets.
Entry-translation pairs were filtered and weighedtaking into account the reliability of the source dictio-nary, the frequencies of the translations in Czech and En-glish monolingual corpora, and the correspondence of theCzech and English POS tags.
Furthermore, by trainingGIZA++ (Och and Ney, 2003) translation model on thetraining part of the PCEDT extended by the manual dic-tionaries, we obtained a probabilistic Czech-English dic-tionary, more sensitive to the domain of financial newsspecific for the Wall Street Journal.The resulting Czech-English probabilistic dictionary_ __ _sanfrancisk?RSTRSan_Franciscomarketingov?RSTR COmarketingaCONJanddistribu n?RSTR COdistributionspole nostACTcompanypodnikaj?c?RSTRoperatingpotravinaLOC COfood_productaCONJandstavebn?RSTRbuildingmateri?lLOC COmaterialFigure 12: Tectogrammatical tree for the Czech transla-tion ?sanfranciska?
marketingova?
a distribuc?n??
spolec?nostpodnikaj??c??
v potravina?ch a stavebn?
?ch materia?lech?.contains 46,150 entry-translation pairs in its lemmatizedversion and 496,673 pairs of word forms in the versionwhere for each entry-translation pair all the correspond-ing word form pairs have been generated.6.3 ToolsSMT Quick Run is a package of scripts and instructionsfor building statistical machine translation system fromthe PCEDT or any other parallel corpus.
The system usesmodels GIZA++ and ISI ReWrite decoder (Germann etal., 2001).TrEd is a graphical editor and viewer of tree structures.Its modular architecture allows easy handling of diverseannotation schemes, it has been used as the principal an-notation environment for the PDT and PCEDT.Netgraph is a multi-platform client-server applicationfor browsing, querying and viewing analytical and tec-togrammatical dependency trees, either over the Internetor locally.7 ConclusionWe have described the process of building the first ver-sion of a parallel treebank for two relatively distant lan-guages, Czech and English, during which we have alsoattempted to reconcile two fairly incompatible linguistictheories used for their description.The resulting data collection contains data syntacti-cally annotated on several layers of analysis.
There havealready been experimental machine translation systemsMAGENTA (Hajic?
et al, 2002) and DBMT ( ?Cmejreket al, 2003) confirming the exploitability of the corpusand showing that we are capable of performing auto-matic transformations from phrase structures to depen-dency representation with an acceptable, though still notimpeccable quality.However, for both languages, we have presented ex-amples of phenomena, for which the ?native?
annotationscheme does not provide a sufficiently fine-grained anal-ysis.
In such cases, automatic conversion between anno-tation schemes is not possible, and the less we can hopefor successfull machine translation.The question of enhancing the annotation schemes toallow for a lossless transformation between them remainsstill open, and its difficulty presents a yet unfathomeddepth.8 AcknowledgementsThis research was supported by the followinggrants: M?SMT ?CR Grants No.
LN00A063, No.MSM113200006, and NSF Grant No.
IIS-0121285.ReferencesAlena Bo?hmova?.
2001.
Automatic procedures in tec-togrammatical tagging.
The Prague Bulletin of Math-ematical Linguistics, 76.Eugene Charniak.
1999.
A maximum-entropy-inspiredparser.
Technical Report CS-99-12.Michael Collins, Jan Hajic?, Lance Ramshaw, andChristoph Tillmann.
1999.
A Statistical Parser forCzech.
In Proceedings of the 37th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, CollegePark, Maryland.Ulrich Germann, Michael Jahr, Kevin Knight, DanielMarcu, and Kenji Yamada.
2001.
Fast decoding andoptimal decoding for machine translation.
In Proceed-ings of the 39th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 228?235.Jan Hajic?
and Barbora Hladka?.
1998.
Tagging Inflec-tive Languages: Prediction of Morphological Cate-gories for a Rich, Structured Tagset.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-ACL Conference, pages 483?490, Montreal,Canada.Jan Hajic?, Martin ?Cmejrek, Bonnie Dorr, Yuan Ding, Ja-son Eisner, Daniel Gildea, Terry Koo, Kristen Parton,Gerald Penn, Dragomir Radev, and Owen Rambow.2002.
Natural Language Generation in the Context ofMachine Translation.
Technical report.
NLP WS?02Final Report.Ivona Kuc?erova?
and Zdene?k ?Zabokrtsky?.
2002.
Trans-forming Penn Treebank Phrase Trees into (Praguian)Tectogrammatical Dependency Trees.
Prague Bulletinof Mathematical Linguistics, 78:77?94.Linguistic Data Consortium.
1999.
Penn Treebank 3.LDC99T42.Linguistic Data Consortium.
2001.
Prague DependencyTreebank 1.
LDC2001T10.M.
P. Marcus, B. Santorini, and M. A. Marcinkiewicz.1993.
Building a Large Annotated Corpus of En-glish: The Penn Treebank.
Computational Linguistics,19(2):313?330.I.
Dan Melamed.
1996.
A geometric approach to map-ping bitext correspondence.
In Proceedings of the FirstConference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing.G.
Minnen, J. Carroll, and D. Pearce.
2001.
AppliedMorphological Processing of English.
Natural Lan-guage Engineering, 7(3):207?223.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A SystematicComparison of Various Statistical Alignment Models.Computational Linguistics, 29(1):19?51.Petr Sgall, Eva Hajic?ova?, and Jarmila Panevova?.
1986.The Meaning of the Sentence and Its Semantic andPragmatic Aspects.
Academia/Reidel PublishingCompany, Prague, Czech Republic/Dordrecht, Nether-lands.Martin ?Cmejrek, Jan Cur??
?n, and Jir???
Havelka.
2003.Czech-English Dependency-based Machine Transla-tion.
In Proceedings of the 10th Conference of The Eu-ropean Chapter of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 83?90, Budapest, Hungary, April.Zdene?k ?Zabokrtsky?, Petr Sgall, and Dz?eroski Sas?o.
2002.Machine Learning Approach to Automatic Functor As-signment in the Prague Dependency Treebank.
In Pro-ceedings of LREC 2002, volume V, pages 1513?1520,Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain.Fei Xia and Martha Palmer.
2001.
Converting depen-dency structures to phrase structures.
In Proceedingsof HLT 2001, First International Conference on Hu-man Language Technology Research, San Francisco.
