Legal Texts Summarization by Exploration of theThematic Structures and Argumentative RolesAtefeh Farzindar and Guy LapalmeRALI, De?partement d?Informatique et Recherche Ope?rationnelleUniversite?
de Montre?al, Que?bec, Canada, H3C 3J7{farzinda,lapalme}@iro.umontreal.caAbstractIn this paper we describe our method for the sum-marization of legal documents helping a legal ex-pert determine the key ideas of a judgment.
Ourapproach is based on the exploration of the docu-ment?s architecture and its thematic structures in or-der to build a table style summary for improving co-herency and readability of the text.
We present thecomponents of a system, called LetSum, built withthis approach, its implementation and some prelim-inary evaluation results.1 IntroductionThe goal of a summary is to give the reader an accu-rate and complete idea of the contents of the source(Mani, 2001).
In this research, we focused on aproblem referred to as legal text summarization.As ever larger amounts of legal documents becomeavailable electronically, interest in automatic sum-marization has continued to grow in recent years.
Inthis paper, we present our method for producing avery short text from a long legal document (a recordof the proceedings of federal courts in Canada) andpresent it as a table style summary.
The goal ofthis project is to develop a system to create a sum-mary for the needs of lawyers, judges and expertsin the legal domain.
Our approach investigates theextraction of the most important units based on theidentification of thematic structures of the documentand the determination of semantic roles of the tex-tual units in the judgment (Farzindar, 2004).
Theremainder of the paper is organized as follows.
Sec-tion 2 introduces the motivation of the research andthe context of the work.
Section 3 reports on theresults of our analysis of a corpus of legal abstractswritten by professional abstractors.
Section 4 de-scribes our method for the exploration of documentarchitecture and the components of the system thatwe have developed to produce a summary.
Section 5presents some related work in this domain.
Section6 concludes the paper and presents some prelimi-nary evaluation results for the components of oursystem.2 Context of the WorkIn Canada, the Canadian Legal Information Insti-tute project (CANLII) aims at gathering legisla-tive and judicial texts, as well as legal commen-taries, from federal, provincial and territorial ju-risdictions in order to make primary sources ofCanadian law accessible for free on the Internet(http://www.canlii.org).
The large vol-ume of legal information in electronic form createsa need for the creation and production of powerfulcomputational tools in order to extract relevant in-formation in a condensed form.But why are we interested in the processing ofprevious legal decisions and in their summaries?First, because a court order generally gives a so-lution to a legal problem between two or severalparties.
The decision also contains the reasonswhich justify the solution and constitute a law ju-risprudence precedent from which it is possible toextract a legal rule that can be applied to simi-lar cases.
To find a solution to a legal problemnot directly indicated in the law, lawyers look forprecedents of similar cases.
For a single query ina data base of law reports, we often receive hun-dreds of documents that are very long to study forwhich legal experts and law students request sum-maries.
In Quebec REJB (R e?pertoire e?lectroniquede jurisprudence du Barreau) and SOQUIJ (Soci e?t e?qu e?b e?coise d?information juridique) are two orga-nizations which provide manual summaries for le-gal resources, but the human time and expertise re-quired makes their services very expensive.
For ex-ample the price of only one summary with its fulltext, provided by SOQUIJ is 7.50 $ can.
Some legalinformation systems have been developed by privatecompanies like QuickLaw in Canada and WEST-LAW and LEXIS in the United States, however noexisting system completely satisfies the specific re-quirements of this field.One reason for the difficulty of this work is thecomplexity of the domain: specific vocabularies ofBetween:JASPER NATIONAL PARK Applicants and THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF CANADA Respondent,Docket: T-1557-98Judgment Professional abstract Role[1] This application for judicial review arisesout of a decision (the Decision) announced onor about the 30th of June 1998 by the Ministerof Canadian Heritage (the Minister) to closethe Maligne River (the River) in Jasper Na-tional Park to all boating activity, beginningin 1999.Judicial review of Minister of CanadianHeritage?s decision to close Maligne Riverin Jasper National Park to all boating activ-ity beginning in 1999 to protect habitat ofharlequin ducks.INTRO-DUCTION[7] The applicants offer commercial raftingtrips to Park visitors in this area each yearfrom mid-June to sometime in September.Applicants offer commercial rafting trips onRiver.CONTEXT[10] Consequently, a further environmentalassessment regarding commercial rafting onthe Maligne River was prepared in 1991.
Theassessment indicated that rafting activity hadexpanded since 1986, with an adverse impacton Harlequin ducks along the Maligne River.1991 environmental assessment indicatingrafting having adverse impact on harlequinducks along river.CONTEXTTable 1: Alignment of the units of the original judgment with the professional abstractthe legal domain and legal interpretations of expres-sions produce many ambiguities.
For example, theword sentence can have two very different mean-ings: one is a sequence of words and the other is amore particular meaning in law, the decision as towhat punishment is to be imposed.
Similarly dis-position which means nature, effort, mental attitudeor property but in legal terms it means the final partof a judgement indicating the nature of a decision:acceptation of a inquiry or dismission.Most previous systems of automatic summariza-tion are limited to newspaper articles and scien-tific articles (Saggion and Lapalme, 2002).
Thereare important differences between news style andthe legal language: statistics of words, probabilityof selection of textual units, position of paragraphsand sentences, words of title and lexical chains rela-tions between words of the title and the key ideas ofthe text, relations between sentences and paragraphsand structures of the text.For judgments, we show that we can identify dis-cursive structures for the different parts of the deci-sion and assign some argumentative roles to them.Newspapers articles often repeat the most importantmessage but, in law, important information may ap-pear only once.
The processing of a legal documentrequires detailed attention and it is not straight for-ward to adapt the techniques developed for othertypes of document to the legal domain.3 Observations from a Corpus3.1 CompositionOur corpus contains 3500 judgments of the FederalCourt of Canada, which are available in HTML onhttp://www.canlii.org/ca/cas/fct/.We analyzed manually 50 judgments in English and15 judgments in French as well as their summarieswritten by professional legal abstractors.
Theaverage size of the documents that are input toour system are judgments between 500 and 4000words long (2 to 8 pages), which form 80% of all3500 judgments; 10% of the documents havingless than 500 words (about one page) and sothey do not need a summary.
Only 10% of thedecisions have more than 4000 words.
Contraryto some existing systems (Moens et al, 1999) thatfocus only on limited types of judgments, suchas criminal cases, our research deals with manycategories of texts such as: Access to information,Administrative law, Air law, Broadcasting, Com-petition, Constitutional law, Copyright, Customsand Excise - Customs Act, Environment, Evidence,Human rights, Maritime law, Official languages,Penitentiaries, Unemployment insurance and etc.3.2 Structure of Legal JudgmentsDuring our corpus analysis, we compared modelsummaries written by humans with the texts ofthe original judgments.
We have identified theorganisational architecture of a typical judgment.Thematic structures Content Judgment SummaryDECISION DATA Name of the jurisdiction,place of the hearing,date of the decision,identity of the author,names of parties,title of proceeding andAuthority and doctrineINTRODUCTION Who?
did what?
to whom?
5 % 12 %CONTEXT Facts in chronological order or by description 24 % 20 %JURIDICAL ANALYSIS Comments by the judge, finding of facts andapplication of the law67 % 60 %CONCLUSION Final decision of the court 4 % 8 %Table 2: Table of summary shows the thematic structures in a jugement and percentage of the contributionof each thematic structure in source judgment and its human made summary!"#$%&?()#*$#+&%&?,+)#-#(&?,+./,01(&?,+20#+&?3(%&?,+4,5610*$#+&,/*%+?7%&?,+48?+04&"#/#-#9%+&41+?&744:;&/%(&4&"#"?*"#7&47(,/#01+?&744817?,+4&"##;&/%(&#04<%/&7:-?$?+%&?,+4,51+?$<,/&%+&#-#$#+&7!%=-#47&>-#71$$%/>8?-&#/?+*?,?7#@#01(&?,+4A#*%-B,(1$#+&:-?$?+%&?,+4,5C1,&%&?,+74B#&#/$?+%&?,+4,5)#$%+&?
(4@,-#7Figure 1: The procedural steps for generating of table style summaryThe paragraphs that address the same subject aregrouped as members of a block.
We annotated theblocks with a label describing their semantic roles.We also manually annotated citations which are tex-tual units (sentence or paragraph) quoted by thejudge as reference, for example an article of lawor other jurisprudence.
The citations account for alarge part of the text of the judgment, but they arenot considered relevant for the summary, thereforethese segments will be eliminated during the infor-mation filtering stage.The textual units considered as important by theprofessional abstractors were aligned manually withone or more elements of the source text.
Table 1shows an example of an alignment between a humansummary and the original judgment.
We look for amatch between the information considered impor-tant in the professional abstract and the informationin the source documents.
Our observation showsthat, for producing a summary, a professional ab-stractor mainly relies on the manual extraction ofimportant units while conforming to general guide-lines.
The collection of these selected units forms asummary.During this analysis, we observed that textsof jurisprudence are organized according to amacrostructure and contain various levels of infor-mation, independently of the category of judgment.Proposed guidelines by Judge Mailhot of the Courtof Appeal of Quebec (Mailhot, 1998) and (Brantinget al, 1997) on legal judgments support this ideathat it is possible to define organisational structuresfor decisions.
Jurisprudence is organized by the dis-course itself, which makes it possible to segment thetexts thematically.Textual units dealing with the same subject forma thematic segment set.
In this context, we distin-guish the layered thematic segments, which dividethe legal decisions into different discursive struc-tures.
The identification of these structures sepa-rates the key ideas from the details of a judgmentand improves readability and coherency in the sum-mary.
We will present the argumentative roles ofeach level of discourse, and their importance inthe judgment from the point of view of the keyand principal ideas.
Table 2 shows the structureof a jurisprudence and its different discourse lev-els.
Therefore, in the presentation of a final sum-mary, we propose to preserve this organization ofthe structures of the text in order to build a tablestyle summary with five themes:DECISION DATA contains the name of the jurisdic-tion, the place of the hearing, the date of the de-cision, the identity of the author, names of par-ties, title of proceeding, authority and doctrine.It groups all the basic preliminary informationwhich is needed for planning the decision.INTRODUCTION describes the situation before thecourt and answers these questions: who are theparties?
what did they do to whom?CONTEXT explains the facts in chronological or-der, or by description.
It recomposes the storyfrom the facts and events between the par-ties and findings of credibility on the disputedfacts.JURIDICAL ANALYSIS describes the commentsof the judge and finding of facts, and the ap-plication of the law to the facts as found.
Forthe legal expert this section of judgment is themost important part because it gives a solutionto the problem of the parties and leads the judg-ment to a conclusion.CONCLUSION expresses the disposition which isthe final part of a decision containing the infor-mation about what is decided by the court.
Forexample, it specifies if the person is dischargedor not or the cost for a party.During our corpus analysis, we computed thedistribution of the information (number of wordsshown in Table 2) in each level of thematic structureof the judgment.
The average length of a judgmentis 3500 words and 350 words for its summary i.e.
acompression rate of about 10%.4 Method for Producing Table StyleSummaryOur approach for producing the summary first iden-tifies thematic structures and argumentative roles inthe document.
We extract the relevant sentences andpresent them as a table style summary.
Showing theinformation considered important which could helpthe user read and navigate easily between the sum-mary and the source judgment.
For each sentenceof the summary, the user can determine the themeby looking at its rhetorical role.
If a sentence seemsmore important for a user and more information isneeded about this topic, the complete thematic seg-ment containing the selected sentence could be pre-sented.
The summary is built in four phases (Fig-ure 1): thematic segmentation, filtering of less im-portant units such as citations of law articles, selec-tion of relevant textual units and production of thesummary within the size limit of the abstract.The implementation of our approach is a systemcalled LetSum (Legal text Summarizer), which hasbeen developed in Java and Perl.
Input to the sys-tem is a legal judgment in English.
To determine thePart-of-Speech tags, the tagger described by (Hep-ple, 2000) is used.
The semantic grammars andrules are developed in JAPE language (Java Anno-tations Pattern Engine) and executed by a GATEtransducer (Cunningham et al, 2002).4.1 Components of LetSumThematic segmentation for which we performedsome experiments with two statistic segmenters:one described by Hearst for the TexTiling system(Hearst, 1994) and the C99 segmenter described byChoi (Choi, 2000), both of which apply a clusteringfunction on a document to find classes divided bytheme.
But because the results of these numericalsegmenters were not satisfactory enough to find thethematic structures of the legal judgments, we de-cided to develop a segmentation process based onthe specific knowledge of the legal field.Category of section title Linguistic markers Examples of section titleBegin of the judgment decision, judgment, reason,orderReasons for order, Reasons forjudgment and orderINTRODUCTION introduction, summary Introduction, SummaryCONTEXT facts, background The factual background, Agreedstatement of factsJURIDICAL ANALYSIS analysis, decision, discussion Analysis and Decision of the courtCONCLUSION conclusion, disposiotion, cost Conclusion and CostsTable 3: The linguistic markers in section titlesEach thematical segment can be associated withan argumentative role in the judgment based on thefollowing information: the presence of significantsection titles (Table 3 shows categories and featuresof the section titles), the absolute and relative posi-tions of a segment, the identification of direct or nar-rative style (as the border of CONTEXT and JURIDI-CAL ANALYSIS segments), certain linguistic mark-ers.The linguistic markers used for each thematicsegment are organized as follows:CONTEXT introduces the parties with the verb tobe (eg.
the application is company X), describes theapplication request like: advise, indicate, requestand explains the situation in the past tense and nar-ration form.In JURIDICAL ANALYSIS, the judge gives his ex-planation on the subject thus the style of expressionis direct such as: I, we, this court, the cue phrases(Paice, 1981) like: In reviewing the sections No.
ofthe Act, Pursuant to section No., As I have stated, Inthe present case, The case at bar is.In CONCLUSION the classes of verbs are: note,accept, summarise, scrutinize, think, say, satisfy,discuss, conclude, find, believe, reach, persuade,agree, indicate, review, the concepts such as: opin-ion, conclusion, summary, because, cost, action, thecue phrases: in the case at bar, for all the abovereasons, in my view, my review of, in view of the evi-dence, finally, thus, consequently, in the result.
Thissegment contains the final result of court decisionusing phrases such as: The motion is dismissed, theapplication must be granted.
The important verbsare: allow, deny, dismiss, grant, refuse.Filtering identifies parts of the text which can beeliminated, without losing relevant information forthe summary.
In a judgment, the citation units (sen-tence or paragraph) occupy a large volume in thetext, up to 30%, of the judgment, whereas their con-tents are less important for the summary.
This iswhy we remove citations inside blocks of thematicsegments.
We thus filter two categories of segments:submissions and arguments that report the points ofview of the parties in the litigation and citations re-lated for previous issues or references to applicablelegislation.
In the case of eliminating a citation ofa legislation (eg.
law?s article), we save the refer-ence of the citation in DECISION DATA in the fieldof authority and doctrine.The identification of citations is based on twotypes of markers: direct and indirect.
A directmarker is one of the linguistic indicators that weclassified into three classes: verbs, concepts (noun,adverb, adjective) and complementary indications.Examples of verbs of citation are: conclude, define,indicate, provide, read, reference, refer, say, state,summarize.
Examples of the concepts are: follow-ing, section, subsection, page, paragraph, pursuant.Complementary indications include numbers, cer-tain preposition, relative clauses and typographicmarks (colon, quotation marks).The indirect citations are the neighboring units ofa quoted phrase.
For example, in Table 4 a citationis shown.
For detecting CITATION segment unitssuch as paragraph 78(1), which reads as follows:are identified using direct markers (shown here inbold) but surrounding textual units with numbersare also quotations.
We thus developed a linear inte-gration identification mechanism for sentences fol-lowing a quoted sentence for determining a groupof citations.Selection builds a list of the best candidate unitsfor each structural level of the summary.
LetSumcomputes a score for each sentence in the judgmentbased on heuristic functions related to the followinginformation: position of the paragraphs in the doc-ument, position of the paragraphs in the thematicsegment, position of the sentences in the paragraph,distribution of the words in document and corpus(tf ?
idf ).
Depending on the given information ineach layered segment, we have identified some cuewords and linguistic markers.
The thematic segmentcan change the value of linguistic indicators.
For ex-ample, the phrase application is dismissed that canbe considered as a important feature in the CON-CLUSION might not have the same value in CON-TEXT segment.
At the end of this stage, the pas-sages with the highest resulting scores are sorted todetermine the most relevant ones.Production of the final summary in which theselected sentences are normalized and displayed intabular format.
The final summary is about 10%of source document.
The elimination of the unim-portant sentences takes into account length statisticspresented in Table 2.
In the INTRODUCTION seg-ment, units with the highest score are kept within10% of the size of summary.
In the CONTEXT seg-ment, the selected units occupy 24% of the sum-mary length.
The contribution of the JURIDICALANALYSIS segment is 60% and the units with therole CONCLUSION occupy 6% of the summary.4.2 Current State of LetSumTable 4 shows an example of the output after the ex-ecution of the Selection module of LetSum (mod-ules of Figure 1 up to the horizontal line) appliedon a judgment of Federal Court of Canada (2468words).
Thematic segmentation module has di-vided the text into structural blocks according tothe rhetorical roles (given to the left of braces inTable 4).
The Filtering module removes citationblocks and its enumerated quoted paragraphs (e.g.paragraph (15) in tablet).
Selection module choosestotal relevant textual units (shown in bold in Table 4)in each thematic segment.
The units are selectedaccording to their argumentative role in the judge-ment.
Here the length of all extracted units is 313words.Preliminary evaluations of components of Let-Sum are very promising; we obtained 0.90 F-measure for thematic segmentation and 0.97 F-measure for filtering stage (detection of 57 quotedsegment correctly on 60).From this information, the Production module(currently being implemented) could concatenatetextual units with some grammatical modification toproduce a short summary.5 Related ResearchLetSum is the one of the few systems developedspecifically for the summarization of legal docu-ments.
All of these approaches attest the impor-tance of the exploration of thematic structures in le-gal documents.The FLEXICON project (Smith and Deedman,1987) generates a summary of legal cases by us-ing information retrieval based on location heuris-tics, occurrence frequency of index terms and theuse of indicator phrases.
A term extraction modulethat recognizes concepts, case citations, statute ci-tations and fact phrases leads to a document profile.This project was developed for the decision reportsof Canadian courts, which are similar to our corpus.SALOMON (Moens et al, 1999) automaticallyextracts informative paragraphs of text from Belgianlegal cases.
In this project a double methodologywas used.
First, the case category, the case struc-ture and irrelevant text units are identified basedon a knowledge base represented as a text gram-mar.
Consequently, general data and legal foun-dations concerning the essence of the case are ex-tracted.
Secondly, the system extracts informativetext units of the alleged offences and of the opinionof the court based on the selection of representativeobjects.More recently, SUM (Grover et al, 2003) exam-ined the use of rhetorical and discourse structure inlevel of the sentence of legal cases for finding themain verbes.
The methodology is based on (Teufeland Moens, 2002) where sentences are classified ac-cording to their argumentative role.These studies have shown the interest of summa-rization in a specialized domain such as legal textsbut none of these systems was implemented in anenvironment such as CANLII which has to deal withthousands of texts and produce summaries for each.6 ConclusionIn this paper, we have presented our approach fordealing with automatic summarization techniques.This work refers to the problem of processing of ahuge volume of electronic documents in the legalfield which becomes more and more difficult to ac-cess.
Our method is based on the extraction of rele-vant units in the source judgment by identifying thediscourse structures and determining the semanticroles of thematic segments in the document.
Thepresentation of the summary is in a tabular form di-vided by the following thematic structures: DECI-SION DATA, INTRODUCTION, CONTEXT, JURIDI-CAL ANALYSIS and CONCLUSION.
The generationof summary is done in four steps: thematic segmen-tation to detect the document structures, filtering toeliminate unimportant quotations and noises, selec-tion of the candidate units and production of tablestyle summary.
The system is currently being fi-nalized and preliminary evaluation results are verypromising.7 AcknowledgementsWe would like to thanks LexUM group of le-gal information-processing laboratory of the PublicDECISION DATA??????????
?Name of the jurisdiction: Federal Court of Canada, Place of the hearing: OttawaDate of the decision: 31/12/97, Identity of the author: J.E.
Dub e?Names of parties: Commissioner of official languages of canad, Applicant- and - Air Canada, RespondentTitle of proceeding: Official languages, Docket number: T-1989-96Authority and doctrine : Official Languages Act, R.S.C., 1985 (4th Supp.
), c.
31INTRODUCTION???????
(1) An order was made by this Court on February 4, 1997 authorizing the respondent (Air Canada) toraise preliminary objections to the notice of an originating motion filed by the applicant (the Commis-sioner).
As a result, this motion filed by Air Canada on March 18, 1997 raises six alternative prelim-inary objections asking the Court to strike out in part the motion made by the Commissioner onSeptember 6, 1996 under section 78 of the Official Languages Act.CONTEXT??????????????????????1.
Facts(2) The Commissioner?s originating motion, which was filed with the consent of the com-plainant Paul Comeau, concerns Air Canada?s failure to provide ground services in theFrench language at the Halifax airport.
The Commissioner asks this Court to declare thatthere is a significant demand for services in French in Air Canada?s office at the Halifax airportand that Air Canada is failing to discharge its duties under Part IV of the Act.
Part IV estab-lishes language-related duties for communications with and services to the public, including thetravelling public, where there is significant demand.
(3) The Commissioner?s motion is filed by the complainant Paul Comeau....CITATION???????????????
(15) The point of departure is paragraph 78(1), which reads as follows:78.
(1) The Commissioner may(a) within the time limits prescribed by paragraph 77(2)( a) or ( b), apply to the Court fora remedy under this Part in relation to a complaint investigated by the Commissioner if theCommissioner has the consent of the complainant.
(b) appear before the Court on behalf of any person who has applied under section 77 for aremedy under this Part; or(c) with leave of the Court, appear as a party to any proceedings under this Part.ANALYSIS?????????
(16) Air Canada?s position is therefore that the Commissioner may only apply for a rem-edy limited to facts relating to a specific complaint, the investigation of that complaintand the resulting reports and recommendations.
In my view, this interpretation is toonarrow and is inconsistent with the general objectives of the Act and its remedial andquasi-constitutional nature....CONCLUSION???????????7.
Conclusion(29) Thus, to ensure that the judge presiding at the hearing on the merits can correctly assess thesituation in light of all the material evidence, no reference or evidence filed by the Commissionerin the three affidavits mentioned above should be struck out.
(30) This motion to strike by Air Canada with respect to the preliminary objections must accord-ingly be dismissed.Table 4: Output produced by the LetSum?s modules: Thematic segmentation, Filtering and Selection.Source judgment is divided into thematic blocks associated with rhetorical roles, citation block will beremoved in the filtering phase and textual units (shown in bold) have been selected as relevant.Law Research Center at the University of Montrealfor their valuable suggestions.
This project sup-ported by Public Law Research Center and Natu-ral Sciences and Engineering Research Council ofCanada.ReferencesL.
Karl Branting, Charles B. Callaway, Bradford W.Mott, and James C. Lester.
1997.
A frame-work for self-explaining legal documents.
InProceedings of the Sixth International Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence and Law (ICAIL-97), pages 72?81, University of Melbourne, Mel-bourne, Australia, June 30-July 3.Freddy Choi.
2000.
Advances in domain indepen-dent linear text segmentation.
In Proceding ofthe 1 st North American Chapter of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, pages 26?33,Seattle, Washington.H.
Cunningham, D. Maynard, K. Bontcheva, andV.
Tablan.
2002.
Gate: A framework and graphi-cal development environment for robust nlp toolsand applications.
In Proceedings of the 40th An-niversary Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics (ACL?02), Philadelphia, July.Atefeh Farzindar.
2004.
D e?veloppement d?unsyste`me de r e?sum e?
automatique de textes ju-ridiques.
In TALN-RECITAL?2004, pages 39?44,Fe`s, Maroc, 19-22 April.Claire Grover, Ben Hachey, and Chris Korycinski.2003.
Summarising legal texts: Sentential tenseand argumentative roles.
In Dragomir Radev andSimone Teufel, editors, HLT-NAACL 2003 Work-shop: Text Summarization (DUC03), pages 33?40, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, May 31 - June1.Marti A. Hearst.
1994.
Multi-paragraph segmenta-tion of expository text.
In the 32nd Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, LosCruces, NM, June.Mark Hepple.
2000.
Independence and commit-ment: Assumptions for rapid training and execu-tion of rule-based part-of-speech taggers.
In the38th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (ACL-2000), pages 278?285, October.Louise Mailhot.
1998.
Decisions, Decisions: ahandbook for judicial writing.
Editions YvonBlais, Qu e?bec, Canada.Inderjeet Mani.
2001.
Automatic Text Summariza-tion.
John Benjamins Publishing Company.Marie-Francine Moens, C. Uyttendaele, and J. Du-mortier.
1999.
Abstracting of legal cases: thepotential of clustering based on the selection ofrepresentative objects.
Journal of the AmericanSociety for Information Science, 50(2):151?161.Chris D. Paice.
1981.
The automatic generation ofliterary abstracts: An approach based on identi-fication of self-indicating phrases.
In O. R. Nor-man, S. E. Robertson, C. J. van Rijsbergen, andP.
W. Williams, editors, Information RetrievalResearch, London: Butterworth.Horacio Saggion and Guy Lapalme.
2002.
Gener-ating indicative-informative summaries with su-mum.
Computational Linguistics, 28(4).J.
C. Smith and Cal Deedman.
1987.
The applica-tion of expert systems technology to case-basedlaw.
ICAIL, pages 84?93.Simone Teufel and Marc Moens.
2002.
Summaris-ing scientific articles - experiments with rele-vance and rhetorical status.
Computational Lin-guistics, 28(4):409?445.
