Bilingual concordancers and translation memories: A comparative evaluationLynne BOWKERSchool of Translation and Interpretation,University of Ottawa70 Laurier Ave E., Rm 401Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, K1N 6N5lynne.bowker@uottawa.caMichael BARLOWDepartment of Applied LanguageStudies and Linguistics, University ofAucklandAuckland 1001, New Zealandmi.barlow@auckland.ac.nzAbstractTranslators are increasingly turning toelectronic language resources and tools to helpthem cope with the demand for fast, high-quality translation.
While translation memorytools seem to be well known in the translationindustry at large, bilingual concordancersappear to be familiar primarily in academiccircles.
The strengths and weaknesses of thesetwo types of tool are analyzed in an effort torecommend those circumstances in which eachcould best be applied.1 IntroductionRecent years have witnessed a number ofsignificant changes in the translation market.Largely as a result of globalization, there has beena considerable increase in the volume of text to betranslated.
New types of text, such as Web pages,have also appeared and require translation.The increased demand for translation has beenaccompanied by another trend: deadlines fortranslation jobs have grown shorter.
This is in partbecause companies want to get their products ontothe shelves in all corners of the world as quickly aspossible.
In addition, electronic documents such asWeb pages may have content that needs to beupdated frequently.
Companies want to be sure thattheir sites reflect the latest information, sotranslators are under pressure to work very quicklyto ensure that the up-to-date information isreflected in all language versions of the site.Furthermore, it has been observed that in today?smarket, there is currently a shortage of humantranslators (e.g.
Sprung 2000:ix; Shadbolt 2002:30-31; Allen 2003:300).The increase in volume coupled with shorterturnaround times has resulted in an immensepressure on existing translators to work morequickly, while still maintaining high quality intheir work.
However, these two demands of highquality and fast turnaround are likely to be at oddswith one another.
Therefore, one way that sometranslators are trying to balance the need for highquality with the need for increased productivity isby turning to electronic resources and tools.One type of language resource that has becomepopular is the bilingual parallel corpus, which isessentially a collection of texts in one language(e.g.
English) alongside their translations intoanother language (e.g.
French).
The two sets oftexts must be aligned, which means that links aremade between corresponding sections (e.g.sentences, paragraphs) in the two languages.Bilingual parallel corpora can contain a wealthof useful information for translators, but in order tobe able to exploit these resources, some type oftool is needed.
There are two main types of toolthat can be used to search for and retrieveinformation from a bilingual parallel corpus1: abilingual concordancer (BC) and a translationmemory (TM).
While these two types of tool havesome common goals and features, they also have anumber of differences.As we will see in the upcoming sections, BCscan be considered to be ?old technology?
and theyare not well known in the translation industryoutside of academic circles.
In contrast, TMs havegarnered a significant amount of attention in thetranslation industry of late; they are very much invogue and are considered to be leading-edgetechnology.
Nevertheless, a number of translatorshave expressed frustration and disappointmentwhen trying to apply TMs in certain contexts.
It ispossible that some of the frustration experiencedby translators using TMs in certain situations couldbe alleviated by using BCs instead.
The aim of thispaper is to conduct a comparative analysis of thetwo types of technology in an effort to determinethe strengths and weaknesses of each in order todetermine those situations where translators wouldbe best served by using a TM and those where theymay be better off using a BC.Following the introduction, the paper will bedivided into four main parts.
Part 2 provides some1 Note that while the same corpus data can be usedwith both types of tool, it is usually necessary to pre-process the corpus in a different way in order to renderit readable by different tools.background information, including a generaldescription of how the two types of tool work, withreference to two specific tools ?
ParaConc andTrados ?
that are representative of the categories ofBC and TM respectively.
Part 3 contains a briefassessment of the place occupied by these toolswithin the translation industry today.
Part 4contains a more detailed comparative analysis ofthe features and associated advantages anddisadvantages of each type of tool.
Finally, Part 5concludes with some general recommendationsabout which translation situations warrant the useof each type of tool.2 General introduction to BCs and TMsThe general aim of both a BC and a TM is toallow a translator to consult, and if appropriate to?reuse?, relevant sections of previously translatedtexts.
In the following sections, BCs and TMs willbe described with reference to ParaConc andTrados, which are representative examples of theserespective categories of tool.2.1 ParaConc: an example of a BC2BCs, such as ParaConc, are fairlystraightforward tools: they allow translators tosearch through bilingual parallel corpora to findinformation that might help them to complete anew translation.
For example, if a translatorencounters a word or expression that he does notknow how to translate, he can look in the bilingualparallel corpus to see if this expression has beenused before, and if so, how it was dealt with.To use ParaConc, the source and target textsmust first be aligned, which means thatcorresponding text segments are linked together3.A semi-automatic alignment utility is included inthe program to prepare texts that are not alreadypre-aligned.
The initial part of the alignmentprocess is carried out in three stages: first the textsare aligned based on headings, if any are present inthe texts, then alignment is carried out at theparagraph level, and finally at the sentence level.The software uses the formatting information infiles to carry out alignment of headings and2 In fact, ParaConc could more properly be termed amultilingual concordancer, since it is possible to consulttexts in up to four languages at once.
However, in thecontext of this paper, we will refer to it as a BC anddiscuss its use for comparing texts in two languages.3 A detailed description of alignment techniques isbeyond the scope of this paper; however, alignment is anon-trivial matter.
Problems can arise, for example, if asingle source text sentence has been translated bymultiple target language sentences, or vice versa, or ifinformation has been omitted from or added to thetarget text (e.g.
to handle cultural references).paragraphs.
Alignment at the sentence level isachieved by applying the Gale-Church algorithm(Gale and Church 1993).
To make adjustments tothe alignment, the user can examine the alignedsegments and either merge or split particularsegments, as necessary.
One important thing tonote is that the aligned units remain situated withinthe larger surrounding text.Once the texts are aligned, the translator canconsult the corpus.
By choosing the basic searchcommand, the translator can retrieve all examplesof a word or phrase (or part of a word) from thecorpus.
As shown in Figure 1, the search term?head?
has been entered and all instances of?head?
from the English corpus are displayed inthe upper pane (here in a KWIC format).
Thecorresponding text segments from the Frenchcorpus are shown in the lower pane.Figure 1.
A ParaConc results window.The concordance lines can be sorted in variousways (e.g., primarily 1st left and secondarily 1stright) in order to group similar phrases togetherand therefore make it easier for a translator to spotlinguistic patterns.
Clicking on a concordance linein the upper pane will highlight that line and alsothe corresponding text segment in the lower pane.Double-clicking on a line will bring up a windowcontaining the segment within a larger context.Suggested translations for the English ?head?can be highlighted by positioning the cursor in thelower French results pane and clicking on the rightmouse button.
A possible translation of ?head?such as ?t?te?
can be entered.
The program thensimply highlights all instances of ?t?te?
in theFrench results window, which can then bedisplayed (and sorted).It is also possible to use a utility that presents alist of ?hot?
words in the French results pane,including possible translations.
Some or all thewords listed can be selected and they will then behighlighted in the results.Finally, more complex search commands canalso be used if desired.
Some of the possibleadvanced search options are: Text search, Regularexpression search, Tag (part-of-speech) search,Batch search, and various heading-sensitive andcontext-sensitive searches.
Of particular interest totranslators is a Parallel search, which allows theuser to enter both an English and a French searchword and to retrieve only those occurrences thatmatch both (e.g.
only instances where ?head?
istranslated by ?t?te?
and not by ?chef?
).2.1.1 Potential limitations of BCsThere are a number of potential limitations thatare often associated with BCs: 1) the limiteddegree of automation; 2) the nature of the searchitem; and 3) the nature of the matching process.With regard to degree of automation, when usinga BC, it is up to the translator to decide what wordor expression to look up, and he then has tomanually type this into the search engine.In terms of the nature of the search item, BCs aregenerally designed to search only for words or veryshort phrases.
It is true that, in principle, a BCcould be used to search for an entire sentence orparagraph; however, the fact that the search patternmust be manually entered tends to discourage thistype of use because it would be extremely time-consuming and error prone (e.g.
typos).Finally, BCs are sometimes criticized because ofthe nature of the matching process that they use.By default, these tools basically search through thecorpus for occurrences that match the enteredsearch pattern precisely.
For example, if thetranslator enters the search pattern ?flatbed colourscanner?
into the concordancer, it will retrieve onlythose occurrences that match that pattern exactly.
Itwill not retrieve an example that containsdifferences in punctuation, spelling or morphology(e.g.
?flat-bed color scanners?).
However, as notedin section 2, some BCs, such as ParaConc, haveadded more advanced search features to improvethe flexibility of searching.2.2 Trados: an example of a TMLike a BC, a TM is a tool designed to helptranslators identify and retrieve information from abilingual parallel corpus.
However, one of themotivating factors in developing TMs was toovercome some of the seeming limitations of BCsas described in section 2.1.1.
Consequently, TMsare more automated, can search for longersegments, and employ fuzzy matching techniques.The data contained in a conventional TM, suchas Trados4, are organized in a very precise way,which differs somewhat from the way in whichdata are stored for use with a BC.
Trados divideseach text into small units known as segments,which usually correspond to sentences or sentence-like units (e.g., titles, headings, list items, tablecells).
The source text segments are linked to theircorresponding target text segments and theresulting aligned pair of segments is known as atranslation unit (TU).
Each TU is extracted fromthe larger text and stored individually in adatabase.
It is this database of TUs, not the originalcomplete text, that is later searched for matches.When a TM, such as Trados, is first acquired, itsdatabase is empty.
It is up to the translator to stockthe database.
This can be done interactively byhaving the translator add each newly translatedsegment to the database as he works his waythrough the text, or it can be done by takingpreviously translated texts and aligning them usingthe accompanying automatic alignment program.
Itis important to note, however, that in order toensure that the automatic alignment has been donecorrectly, manual verification may be required.When a translator receives a new text to translatehe begins by opening this new text in the Tradosenvironment.
Trados proceeds to divide this newtext into segments.
Once this has beenaccomplished, the tool starts at the beginning ofthe new source text and automatically compareseach segment to the contents of the TM database.If it finds a segment that it ?remembers?
(i.e., asegment that matches one that has been previouslytranslated and stored in the TM database), itretrieves the corresponding TU from the databaseand shows it to the translator, who can refer to thisprevious translation and adopt or modify it for usein the new translation.Of course, language is flexible, which meansthat the same idea can be expressed in a number ofdifferent ways (e.g., ?The filename is invalid?
/?This file does not have a valid name?
).Consequently, a translator cannot reasonablyexpect to find many exact matches for completesegments in the TM.
However, it is highly likelythat there will be segments in a new source textthat are similar to, but not exactly the same as,segments that are stored in the TM.
For this reason,Trados also employs a feature known as fuzzymatching.
As shown in Figure 2, a fuzzy match isable to locate segments in the TM that are an4 Note that Trados is actually a suite of tools thatincludes, among other things, an automatic aligner, aterminology manager and a TM.approximate or partial match for the segment in thenew source text.Segment fromnew sourcetextThe specified operation wasinterrupted by the system.Fuzzy matchretrieved fromtranslationmemoryEN:  The operation wasinterrupted by the application.FR:  L'op?ration a ?t?interrompue par l'application.Figure 2.
Fuzzy match retrieved from the TM.If more than one potential match is found for anygiven segement, these are ranked by the systemaccording to the degree of similarity between thenew segment to be translated and the previouslytranslated segment found in the database.
Note thatthe similarity in question is a superficial similarity(e.g., the number/length of character strings thatthe two segments have in common) and not asemantic similarity (thus ?gone?
and ?went?
willnot count as similar despite the similarity inmeaning of the two words).
The match that thesystem perceives as being most similar to the newsource segment is automatically pasted into thenew target text.
The translator can accept thisproposal as is, edit it as necessary, or reject it andask to see other candidates (if any were found).Trados also works in conjunction withtermbases; however, it is important to note thatthese need to be manually pre-stocked bytranslators with specialized terms and theirequivalents.
By searching in the termbase ?
if oneexists ?
Trados can locate matches at the termlevel and present them to the translator.Nevertheless, there is still a level of linguisticrepetition that falls between full sentences andspecialized terms ?
repetition at the level ofexpression or phrase.
This is in fact the level wherelinguistic repetition will occur most often.Until recently, Trados permitted phrase orexpression searching only though a feature thatresembled a BC.
In other words, a translator couldmanually select an expression, and Trados wouldsearch through the database of TUs to findexamples.
In the most recent version of Trados(v6.5), however, an auto-concordance function hasbeen added, which, when activated willautomatically go on to search for text fragmentswhen no segment-level match is found.Once the translator is satisfied with thetranslation for a given segment ?
which can betaken directly from Trados, adapted from a Tradosmatch, or created by the translator from scratch ?the newly created TU can be added to the TMdatabase and the translator can move on to the nextsegment.
In this way, the database grows as thetranslator works.
Trados can also be networked sothat multiple translators can search and contributeto the same TM.3 BCs and TMs in the translation industryA literature survey indicates that BCs and TMsare both widely used in academic settings fortranslator training.
A long list of researchers (e.g.Bernardini 2002; Hansen and Teich 2002; Palumbo2002; Pearson 2000; Tagnin 2002; Zanettin 1998)have shown that using BCs in conjunction withparallel bilingual corpora can help students with arange of translation-related tasks, such asidentifying more appropriate target languageequivalents and collocations; coming to grips withdifficult grammatical points (e.g.
prepositions, verbtenses, negative prefixes); identifying the norms,stylistic preferences and discourse structuresassociated with different text types; anduncovering important conceptual information.With regard to TMs, meanwhile, many translatortrainers (e.g.
Austerm?hl 2001; Bowker 2002;DeCesaris 1996; Kenny 1999; L?Homme 1999) arenow using TMs for tasks such as getting studentsto analyze and evaluate different translationsolutions; helping students to learn more aboutinter- and intra-textual features by examiningsource texts and evaluating their characteristics inan effort to determine whether or not they can beusefully translated with the help of a TM; andconducting longitudinal studies of students?progress over the course of their training program.In contrast to the academic setting, where bothBCs and TMs are well known and widely used, thesituation in the professional setting is somewhatdifferent: TMs are very popular, but the existenceof BCs does not seem to be widely known.For example, TMs are discussed frequently inthe professional association literature.
Accordingto newsletters/programmes circulated to members,translators?
associations such as the AmericanTranslator?s Association or the Association ofTranslators and Interpreters of Ontario haveprovided their members with opportunities (e.g.demonstrations, workshops, professionaldevelopment seminars) to learn about TMs.In addition, some professional translators?associations, such as the Ordre des traducteurs,terminologues et interpr?tes agr?
?s du Qu?bec,also publish magazines aimed at languageprofessionals, and in recent years, these haveincluded a number of discussions on TMs (e.g.B?dard 1995, 1998; Arrouart and B?dard 2001;Lanct?t 2001).In those same publications, however,considerably less attention has been paid to BCs:only one event focusing on these tools wasreported (Evans 2002).This raises the question as to why BCs appear tohave received a less enthusiastic welcome in theprofessional world than have TMs.
One factor thatmay have led to a difference in uptake of these twotools is the ease of access to such tools.Firstly, it should be noted that BCs have longbeen known in fields such as language teaching orsecond-language learning (e.g.
Johns 1986, Mindt1986, Barlow 2000), but it is only more recentlythat their potential as translation aids has beenrecognized.
Academics working in the field oftranslation are often involved in, or havecolleagues who are involved in, language teaching,and as such they may have gained exposure to BCsin this way.
Many of the existing BCs wereinitially developed by academics who work inlanguage training5 often as a means of helping theirown students.
This means that while such tools aregenerally very reasonably priced and may be easilyaccessible within the academic community, theyare sometimes not widely advertised or distributedto the professional translation community becausethe people who have created these tools have full-time teaching jobs.
In contrast, tools such as TMs,which have typically been developed in the privatesector by companies that have professional full-time programmers, technical support staff andgenerous advertising budgets, are more activelymarketed to working translation professionals.
Thefact that BCs do not seem to be well advertised inthe professional setting may explain, in part, whytranslators and translators?
associations seem to bemore aware of the existence of TMs than they areof BCs.
This situation may change in the future,however.
As noted above, the use of BCs intranslator training institutes has become firmlyestablished since the late 1990s.
This means that, atpresent, most of the translators in the workforcewill have received their education during a timewhen BCs were not part of the translator trainingcurriculum.
However, over the coming years, thenumber of BC-saavy graduates will increase andthey will bring to the workforce their knowledge ofBCs.
They will be able to share their experiencewith their colleagues and employers and gradually,more and more companies will have translators onstaff who have an understanding of such tools.5 For example, ParaConc was developed by Dr.Michael Barlow, who works in the Department ofApplied Language Studies and Linguistics at theUniversity of Auckland; MultiConcord was developedby a consortium based in the Centre for EnglishLanguage Studies at the University of Birmingham.4 Comparative analysis of BCs and TMsOn the surface, it may seem to be an obviouschoice for a translator to select a TM over a BCsince a TM includes the basic functions of a BC, aswell as a number of additional features (e.g.automated searching, segment-level matching,fuzzy matching).
However, if one looks beneaththe surface, it seems that while TMs may befavourable in some circumstances, there are othersituations where a BC may be the preferred tool.
Inthe following sections, we will examine thestrengths and weaknesses of BCs and TMs, usingParaConc and Trados as representative examplesof these respective categories of tools.4.1 AutomationAutomation is an oft-touted advantage of TMs.In principle, automating the search feature shouldspeed up the process; however, this may notalways be the case.
As pointed out by B?dard(1995:28), it is possible to approach automation inone of two ways: 1) an ambitious or high-techapproach, using very sophisticated and highlyautomated tools, such as TMs, or 2) a more modestor low-tech approach, where the tools (e.g.
BCs)are simpler and require more user input.In the case of the highly-automated approach,there can be hidden costs.
Because the tools aremore sophisticated, they may require a greaterinvestment of time and effort in learning how touse them, which may prompt users to ask ?Whathave I got myself into??.
The pre-processing steps(e.g.
alignment) may also be more demandingbecause an automated system depends moreheavily on correct alignment.
As noted in section2.2, in the case of Trados, if a translator wishes toensure that the alignment is absolutely correct inorder to prevent misaligned TUs being presented,he must manually verify, and if necessary correct,the alignment ?
a process that can be extremelylabour-intensive if the database is large.
Incontrast, since the data generated by BCs isdesigned for consultation by a human user, not acomputer, the alignment requirements aresomewhat less stringent.
A certain number ofalignment errors can be tolerated in a BC becausethe danger of ?automatically?
retrievingmisaligned segments does not exist, and if an errordoes occur, the translator can simply look to thepreceding or following text to find thecorresponding segment because a BC does notextract the segment from its surrounding text.Because BCs can tolerate a certain margin of error,the translator need not bother to manually verifyevery alignment segment prior to beginning to usethe tool, which can represent a significant timesaving.Another potential drawback of automation is thatthe system searches for all matches, even in caseswhere the translator may not need help with aparticular passage.
For example, if the auto-concordance feature in Trados is activated, it mayretrieve and display matches for phrases such as?because of the?
or ?in order to?, for which anexperienced translator is unlikely to needassistance.
This can be distracting because the factthat information has been retrieved means that thetranslator will probably at least have a brief look atwhat the system has proposed, which takes timeand is disruptive to the translation process.
And thereturn on investment is bound to be low for timespent looking at matches for segments for whichno translation assistance was required in the firstplace.
In contrast, when working with a BC, thetranslator initiates the searches and therefore onlylooks for passages for which he requires help.In addition, the fact that many TMs, includingTrados, automatically copy and paste fuzzymatches or term matches directly into the targettext can sometimes be a hindrance.
Depending onthe amount of editing required to produce adesirable target segment, it may actually be fasterfor the translator to type the translation fromscratch rather than editing the proposed segment.In contrast, a BC does not automatically paste anytext directly into the target document, which can bea good thing or a bad thing depending on thequality of the match retrieved.A small point, but one that is worth mentioningnonetheless is that TMs often require a great dealof user-initiated clicking in order to view or use the?automatically?
retrieved information.
Forexample, in Trados, when working in interactivemode, the user must click in order to instruct thesystem to conduct a search for each new segment.Once the search has been conducted, only thehighest-ranked match is automatically presented tothe user, but depending on the translator?s needs,this is not necessarily the match that will be themost helpful.
There are extra clicks involved inpulling up and viewing additional matches.
Lastly,when the auto-concordance feature is activated, ifthe system does not find any sentence-levelmatches for the current segment, it automaticallyopens the concordance window and displays theresults; however, in so doing, it makes theconcordance window the active window, so thetranslator has to make a point of clicking back inthe target field before starting to type, otherwisethe text will be inadvertently written to the searchfield of the concordance window.
It is true thatthere is also typing and clicking to be done whenusing a BC, but the point we want to make here isthat BCs such as ParaConc do not profess to useautomation as a time-saver.
Moreover, the lack ofautomation may actually save time in some cases.For example, in ParaConc, all the matches aredisplayed at once and the user can peruse them at aglance instead of having to click through them.Finally, it should be noted that not all features ofTMs are in fact automated.
In Trados, for example,the termbase that is used to identify term matchesmust be manually pre-stocked with term records bythe translator prior to beginning a translation job.However, as pointed out by Arrouart and B?dard(2001:30), when a translator consults a parallelbilingual corpus using a BC, he has at his disposala sort of ?full-text glossary?
which, by its verynature, contains countless ?term records?
that thetranslator has not yet had the time to formalize.Arrouart and B?dard go on to observe that one day,such resources may well supplant carefullymanaged collections of term records.In summary, while less-automated tools such asBCs appear to achieve less, they may be quicker toprovide translators with results they can actuallyuse, and they are likely to be more tolerant ofunexpected situations.
Of course, using such toolsmay call for a higher level of inventiveness orcreativity on the part of the user, but thankfully,these are qualities that translators typically possess.4.2 Search flexibilityIt was noted in section 2.1.1 that one of theperceived limitations of BCs is the nature of thesearches that can be conducted.
Typically, BCssearch for occurrences in the corpus that preciselymatch the search pattern entered by the user.
Incontrast TMs can make use of a fuzzy matchingtechnique that can identify patterns that are similarto, but do not precisely match, the source segment.However, a fuzzy match is not a panacea.
Whenusing fuzzy matching techniques, the translator canset the sensitivity threshold of the match; in otherwords, the translator can decide how similar thetwo segments must be in order for a TU to beretrieved and displayed.
Setting the appropriatesensitivity threshold can actually be quite tricky: ifthe threshold is set too high (e.g., 95% similarity),then potentially useful matches may be overlookedand the translator will be forced to do unnecessaryindependent research.
But if it is set too low  (e.g.,30% similarity), then irrelevant segments may beerroneously retrieved and the translator will wastetime weeding through the non-pertinent data.
Inaddition, as noted in section 2.2, even if a fuzzymatch has a high percentage of similarity, it maynot be that useful to the translator since thematching is based on surface structure similaritiesrather than semantic similarities.
For instance, thefollowing would be retrieved as a good match in aTM since the two segments strongly resemble eachother on the surface, differing by only twocharacters: File the form.
/ Fill the dorm.In contrast, the following pair would not beretrieved because they are not superficially similar,though they are closely linked semantically: Filethe form.
/ He is re-filing those forms.A translator who is looking for an equivalent ofa given segment would find the translation of asemantically-related segment to be more usefulthan that of a segment which bears only asuperficial resemblance to the source text segment.With a BC, a translator could use his ownknowledge of semantics to try to formulate morerelevant queries, but with a TM, the translator hasno input into the search patterns used.Moreover, as mentioned in section 2.1, manyBCs have developed a number of additionalflexible searching techniques which, though stillmanually initiated, can approximate to some extentthe results of a fuzzy match.
For example,ParaConc offers the possibility of using operatorssuch as wildcards as part of a search.
If usedproperly, these operators can increase theflexibility of a search (e.g.
by finding inflectedforms).
However, as was the case with fuzzymatching, they can also lead to problems if theyare not used rigorously.
For instance, in an effort toretrieve examples of all forms of the verb ?toenter?, a translator may input a pattern such as?enter*?
where the * can be used to represent anystring of characters.
However, this pattern will alsoretrieve occurrences of all other words beginningwith the string ?enter?
(e.g., ?enterprise?,?entertain?).
As a result, the translator mayinadvertently be presented with irrelevant data.The nice thing about working with a BC,however, is that the translator does have controlover the search pattern that is entered, so bylearning the proper search syntax and by gainingsome experience, translators can learn which typesof patterns are likely to produce valuableinformation and which are likely to waste time.When working with a TM, however, the translatorhas no control over the search pattern that is used.For example, as mentioned in section 2.1, theparallel search offered by ParaConc allows atranslator to limit a search to a given word sense,whereas this cannot be achieved using a TM.4.3 ConsistencyAnother highly advertised feature of TMs is thatthey promote consistency in translation.
Thequestion that has been raised by some translators,however, is whether this is always desirable.Merkel (1998:143) conducted a survey of 13translators using TMs to carry out the translation ofsoftware manuals.
One of the questions asked waswhether they preferred consistent translations of agiven source segment in two different contexts.The choice of answer was either ?yes?
or ?no?,with space for the respondent to elaborate on themotivations for his/her choice.
Upon examiningthe completed questionnaires, Merkel noted that ?itbecame apparent that there was a need for a thirdresponse, in between ?yes?
and ?no?, namely aresponse which we can call ?doesn?t matter?.
Thisapplies when the translator in the justification forthe choice has indicated that the translation couldbe consistent, but that it would not matter whetherthe source segment was also translateddifferently.?
This raises an interesting point: incontrast to what many TM vendors would have usbelieve, while consistency may sometimes bedesirable, it may not always be strictly necessary.Furthermore, there may even be cases whereconsistency is not at all appropriate.
For instance,the translators consulted as part of Merkel?s surveywarn that there is a need to evaluate a proposedmatch within the new context, and that it may notalways be automatically acceptable.
This isparticularly true in the case of different structuralcontexts (e.g.
sentence vs heading vs table cell),where caution should be used in applyingconsistent translations (Merkel 1998:145).4.4 Other quality-related issuesIn addition to the question of consistency, otherquality-related issues have been raised bytranslators working with TMs.
One of the mostsignificant, which was briefly introduced in section2.2, is the fact that TM databases store isolatedsegment pairs, rather than complete texts.
In thewords of Arrouart and B?dard (2001:30), a TM isactually a memory of sentences out of context.This can be problematic because the sentences ina text generally depend on each other in variousways.
For example, when we read/write the thirdsentence in a text, we can refer back to informationalready presented in the first two sentences, whichmeans that it is possible to use pronouns, deicticand cataphoric references, etc.
However, if we takethat third sentence in isolation, it may not be clearwhat the antecedents of such references are.In addition, because languages do not have aone-for-one correspondence or the same stylisticrequirements, translators who are trying to conveythe overall message of a text may map theinformation to the sentences in the target text in away that differs from how that information wasoriginally dispersed among the source textsentences.
The result is that even if the two textsare considered to be equivalent when taken as awhole, the sentences in a translation may notdepend on each other in precisely the same way inwhich the source text sentences do (B?dard 2000).In order to maximize the ?recyclability?
of atext, a translator working with a TM may choose tostructure the sentences in the target text to matchthose in the source text, and he may choose toavoid using pronouns or other references.According to Heyn (1998:135), the result may be atext that is inherently less coherent or readable, andof a lesser overall quality.
B?dard (2000) describesthis as a ?sentence salad?
rather than a text.The sentence salad effect is exacerbated whenthe sentences in a TM come from a variety ofdifferent texts that have been translated bydifferent translators.
Each text and translator willhave a different style, and when sentences fromeach are brought together, the resulting text will bea stylistic hodgepodge.
It is highly unlikely that thesource text has been created in such a fashion (i.e.,by asking a variety of authors to contributeindividual sentences), so it is questionable whetherthis approach should be used to produce atranslation, which is also a text in and of itself.Another quality-related problem is that errorscontained in TMs may come back to haunt atranslator if the database is not scrupulouslymaintained in order to correct such errors.
Lanct?t(2001:30) provides the following account of atranslator who carefully stores all his translationsin a TM, but who does not update the contents toreflect corrections made by the client to the finaldocument.
When the client sends a document thatclosely resembles a version of a documentpreviously translated the year before, the translatoruses the TM and blithely reproduces the sameerrors in the new translation.
The client is irritatedbecause the same passages that were corrected lastyear need to be corrected again.
This is not thekind of added value the client was looking for.It is worth pointing out that a BC will alsoproduce less-than-satisfactory results if thecontents of the corpus are not of high quality.
Themain advantage offered by a BC in this regard isthat it is much more straightforward to update thecorpus with a corrected text than it is to fixerroneous TUs in a TM.4.5 Translators?
attitudes and satisfactionAn important point to consider with regard toany tool is whether or not the intended users enjoyworking with it.
In the case of TMs, Merkel(1998:140) observes that some translators ?fearthat translation work will become more tedious andboring, and that some of the creative aspects of thejob will disappear with the increasing use oftranslation memory tools.?
Merkel (1998:141) goeson to note that there is concern that a translatorwho works with a TM may be reduced tosomebody who simply has to press the OK button.In a similar vein, B?dard (2000) expressesconcern that translators may lose motivation whenworking with a TM because they risk becoming?translators of sentences?
rather than ?translatorsof texts?.
In order to maximize recyclability whenworking with a TM, translators are encouraged totranslate one source text sentence by one target textsentence.
However, as noted in section 4.4, the aimof most translators is not to translate sentences, butrather to translate a message.
To do thiseffectively, translators often need to work outsidethe artificial boundaries of end-of-sentencemarkers, and they may therefore feel constrainedby the sentence-by-sentence approach imposed byTMs.
In contrast, Arrouart and B?dard (2001:30)have observed that when working with a BC, fewconstraints are imposed by the tool and translatorsare therefore more free to work as they wish.Another difficulty that may be faced bytranslators working with TMs is that they may bebiased by what the system presents.
In other words,after a translator has seen a suggestion from thedatabase, it may be difficult to think of anotherway of expressing that thought, so he may use thesuggested translation even if it does not fit verycoherently into the text as a whole.
When using aBC, however, a translator is more likely to beseeking inspiration for handling a shorter term orexpression, rather than a complete segment match,so he is less likely to feel unduly influenced by theoverall structure of the sentence contained in thecorpus.
He is also more likely to find examples ofthat term used in a variety of ways, so he can pickthe usage that is most suitable for integration intothe text as a whole.
In this way, a translator feelslike he is making his own decisions, rather thanhaving someone else?s decisions forced upon him.The very fact that there are multiple ways torender a given passage in another language mayalso be a reason why some translators are unhappyabout using a TM.
Merkel (1998:148) notes that aspart of his survey, translators were presented withseveral different options as translations of a givenpassage.
The choice of ?best translation option?varied widely among translators, which leads himto believe that it may be difficult to encouragetranslators to accept suggestions from TMs.A related problem that has to do with differentworking styles of translators is described byLanct?t (2001:30).
When multiple translators aresharing a single TM over a network, it may be thattranslator A, for example, works by ploughingthrough a text to complete a full rough draft, andhe then goes back over the text a second and thirdtime to clean up any outstanding problems (e.g.terminological, stylistic).
In contrast, translator B?sapproach is to go more slowly, doingterminological research and addressing stylisticconcerns as he goes along.
In Lanct?t?s scenario,translator B is frustrated by the suggestionsproposed by the TM ?
many of which wereproduced as part of translator A?s first rough draft.5 Concluding remarksThe aim of this paper has been to introduce andpresent an analysis of some of the strengths andweaknesses of two categories of tool: BCs andTMs.
As noted in section 3, although TMs arewidely promoted in the translation industry, BCsare less well known and, in some cases, translatorswho are vaguely aware of them may erroneouslybelieve that such tools have been completelysuperseded by TMs and therefore have no interestfor the translation community.It is not our intention to promote one type of toolover the other.
Instead, we feel that the twotechnologies may be considered complementary,rather than competing, in the sense that one may bepreferred in certain circumstances, while the othermay be favoured in a different situation.
Basically,it comes down to a translator being aware of howthe two types of tool work and the potentialadvantages that each offers.
The translator mustthen be able to choose the right tool for the job athand.
What follows are some possibleconsiderations that a translator might take intoaccount when deciding which tool to use.One critical factor that comes into play whenchoosing which tool to use is the nature of the jobitself.
Not all translation jobs are equal, and theywill not necessarily all benefit from the sametechnology.
Part of the frustration experienced bysome translators using translation tools may resultfrom them applying the tool in an inappropriatesituation.
Sometimes it may be the client whoinsists that a particular tool be used without reallyunderstanding that it may not be suitable, whereasin other cases, it may be the translator who is notaware that another more appropriate tool exists.Another consideration might be the size of thejob.
In many cases, a translation job amounts tojust a few thousand words, which typically comeswith a short deadline.
And since each job isdifferent, it may not be possible to use any toolwithout making some adaptation to either the toolor the corpus it will be used to process.
As pointedout by B?dard (1995:28), by the time the tool ismade operational, the deadline may be fastapproaching and the cost of getting the tool towork may have exceeded the value of the job.
Asnoted in section 4.1, TMs typically require more interms of a learning curve and data preparation thando BCs, so it may be that while a TM couldprovide a good return on investment for a largejob, a BC might be a better choice for a small job.Text type is also an important factor to consider.There are certain types of texts and writing stylesthat are highly conducive to being processed with aTM.
In particular, texts that are a revision of aprevious document (e.g.
an updated version of auser manual, a re-negotiated collective agreement),are good candidates for translation with a TMbecause they will contain many repetitions at thesentence (or even paragraph) level.
Another goodcandidate for use with a TM is a text where therepetitive sentences are varied (i.e., manysentences with few occurrences of each) andscattered throughout the document.
However, suchdocuments are not the only type that translatorswork with.
Many translators are faced with textsthat contain repetition primarily at the sub-sentencelevel.
In such a case, since the manual searchesinitiated by the translator using a BC may be moreflexible and productive than the auto-concordancesearch in a TM, a BC may be preferable.The choice may also be motivated by whetherthe work is being done for a regular client or for anew client.
If a translator works regularly for aparticular client and has a corpus consistingexclusively or primarily of similar types of textstranslated for that client, it may be reasonable touse a TM since presumably the ?sentence salad?effect will be lessened by the fact that thedocuments will all contain similar terminologicaland stylistic preferences.
In contrast, if the job isfor a new client and the corpus does not containprevious work done for that client, perhaps a BCwould be a better choice since the translator couldconsult it merely for inspiration without feelingconstrained by choices made previously to suitother clients or text types.The decision of whether to use a TM or a BCmay also depend on the translator?s preferredworking style.
Just as some drivers prefer driving acar with a manual transmission over one with anautomatic transmission, some translators mayfavour a system that does a greater degree ofautomatic text processing (e.g.
TM), while othersmay opt for one that does less (e.g.
BC).Another relevant issue may be the amount ofexperience the translator has.
A translator who isvery experienced may prefer the flexibility offeredby a BC, which allows him to look up only thoseexpressions for which he needs help.
In contrast, atranslator who is just embarking on his career mayvalue the fact that a TM automatically makessuggestions for all types of text strings.A final factor that may come into play could becost.
A single licence for a BC typically costs lessthan $200 (US), whereas a single licence for alimited version6 of a TM retails for closer to $1000(US).
It is true that there are usually additionalfeatures present with TM software (e.g.
atermbase), and if these features will be used, thenthe additional cost may be worthwhile.
However, ifa translator intends to use mainly theconcordancing feature of a tool, then it may bepreferable to purchase a more modestly priced BC.ReferencesJ.
Allen.
2003.
Post-editing.
In ?Computers andTranslation: a Translator?s Guide?, H.
Somers,ed., pages 297-317, John Benjamins, Amsterdam.C.
Arrouart and C. B?dard.
2001.
?loge du bitexte.Circuit 73:30.F.
Austerm?hl.
2001.
Electronic Tools forTranslators.
St. Jerome Publishing, Manchester.M.
Barlow.
2000.
Parallel Texts in LanguageTeaching.
In ?Multilingual Corpora in Teachingand Research?, S. Botley, T. McEnery & A.Wilson, ed., pages 106-115, Rodopi, AmsterdamC.
B?dard.
1995.L?automatisation: faut-il y croire?
Circuit 48:28.C.
B?dard.
1998.
Ce qu?il faut savoir sur lesm?moires de traduction.
Circuit 60:25.C.
B?dard.
2000.
M?moire de traduction cherchetraducteur de phrases?
Traduire 186.S.
Bernardini.
2002.
Educating Translators for theChallenges of the New Millenium: The Potentialof Parallel Bi-directional Corpora.
In ?Trainingthe Language Services Provider for the NewMillenium?, B. Maia, J. Haller & M. Ulrych, ed.,pages 173-186, Faculdade de Letras daUniversidade do Porto.L.
Bowker.
2002.
Computer-Assisted TranslationTechnology: A Practical Introduction.University of Ottawa Press, Ottawa.J.
DeCesaris.
1996.
Computerized TranslationManagers as Teaching Aids.
In ?TeachingTranslation and Interpreting 3: New Horizons?,C.
Dollerup & V. Appel, ed., pages 263-269,John Benjamins, Amsterdam.O.
Evans.
2002.
ATIO Offers MembersProfessional Development on ConcordancingTools.
Newsletter of the Association ofTranslators and Interpreters of Ontario 31(2):7.W.A.
Gale and K.W.
Church.
1993.
A program foraligning sentences in bilingual corpora.Computational Linguistics 19:75-102.6 ?Freelance?
or ?lite?
versions may restrict databaseor termbase size or may lack network capabilities.?Professional?
versions may cost several $1000 (US).S.
Hansen and E. Teich.
2002.
The Creation andExploitation of a Translation Reference Corpus.In ?Proceedings of the Workshop on LanguageResources in Translation Work and Research?,E.
Yuste-Rodrigo, ed., pages 1-4.
EuropeanLanguage Resources Association (ELRA), Paris.M.
Heyn.
1998.
Translation Memories: Insightsand Prospects.
In ?Unity in Diversity?
CurrentTrends in Translation Studies?, L. Bowker, M.Cronin, D. Kenny & J. Pearson, ed., pages 123-136, St. Jerome Publishing, Manchester.T.
Johns.
1986.
Microconcord: A LanguageLearner?s Research Tool.
System 14(2):151-162.D.
Kenny.
1999.
CAT Tools in an AcademicEnvironment.
Target 11 (1):65-82.F.
Lanct?t.
2001.
Splendeurs et petites mis?res?des m?moires de traduction.
Circuit 72: 30.M.-C. L?Homme.
1999.
Initiation ?
la traductique.Linguatech, Brossard, Quebec.M.
Merkel.
1998.
Consistency and Variation inTechnical Translation: A Study of Translators?Attitudes.
In ?Unity in Diversity?
Current Trendsin Translation Studies?, L. Bowker, M. Cronin,D.
Kenny & J. Pearson, ed., pages 137-149, St.Jerome Publishing, Manchester.D.
Mindt.
1986.
Corpus, Grammar and TeachingEnglish as a Foreign Language.
In ?The EnglishReference Grammar: Language and Linguistics,Writers and Readers?, G. Leitner, ed., pages 125-139, Niemeyer, T?bingen.G.
Palumbo.
2002.
The Use of Phraseology forTraining and Research in the Translation of LSPTexts.
In ?Training the Language ServicesProvider for the New Millenium?, B. Maia, J.Haller & M. Ulrych, ed., pages 199-212,Faculdade de Letras da Universidade do Porto.J.
Pearson.
2000.
Une tentative d?exploitation bi-directionnelle d?un corpus bilingue.
Cahiers deGrammaire 25:53-69.D.
Shadbolt.
2002.
The Translation Industry inCanada.
Multilingual Computing and Technology13(2):30-34.R.C.
Sprung.
2000.
Introduction.
In ?Translatinginto Success: Cutting-edge strategies for goingmultilingual in a global age?, R.C.
Sprung, ed.,pages ix-xxii, John Benjamins, Amsterdam.S.E.O.
Tagnin.
2002.
Corpora and the InnocentTranslator: How Can They Help Him?
In?Translation and Meaning, Part 6?, B.Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk & M. Thelen, ed.,pages 489-496, Hogeschool Zuyd, Maastricht.F.
Zanettin.
1998.
Bilingual Comparable Corporaand the Training of Translators.
Meta 43(4):616-630.
