Scaling Understanding up to Mental SpacesEva Mok, John Bryant, Jerome FeldmanInternational Computer Science Institute1947 Center Street Suite 600,Berkeley, CA 94704{emok, jbryant, jfeldman}@icsi.berkeley.eduAbstractMental Space Theory (Fauconnier, 1985) en-compasses a wide variety of complex linguis-tics phenomena that are largely ignored in to-day?s natural language processing systems.These phenomena include conditionals (e.g.
Ifsentences), embedded discourse, and othernatural language utterances whose interpreta-tion depends on cognitive partitioning of con-textual knowledge.
A unification-basedformalism, Embodied Construction Grammar(ECG) (Chang et al, 2002a) took initial stepsto include space as a primitive type, but mostof the details are yet to be worked out.
Thegoal of this paper is to present a scalable com-putational account of mental spaces based onthe Neural Theory of Language (NTL) simu-lation-based understanding framework (Nara-yanan, 1999; Chang et al, 2002b).
Weintroduce a formalization of mental spacesbased on ECG, and describe how this formal-ization fits into the NTL framework.
We willalso use English Conditionals as a case studyto show how mental spaces can be parameter-ized from language.1 IntroductionThere are two dimensions to scalability: improving sys-tem performance (e.g.
speed and size) for a fixed task,and expanding the range of tasks that the system canhandle.
Today?s natural language processing (NLP)systems are not very scalable in the latter dimension.They tend to ignore a wide range of cognitive linguisticphenomena, notably those associated with mentalspaces, which are key to understanding any non-trivialpiece of natural language.
Mental spaces (Fauconnier,1985) are partial cognitive structures built up duringdiscourse that keep track of entities and relations in dif-ferent contexts.
Hypothetical reasoning, depictions (e.g.stories, paintings or movies) and reasoning about otherminds are but a few examples where new mental spacesare required.
Mental spaces provide an important parti-tioning of contextual knowledge that allows scalablereasoning in a partitioned large knowledge base.However, the literature on Mental Space Theorydoes not address how these cognitive structures arespecified compositionally, let alne offering formaliza-tions of mental space representations or computationalrealizations.
We thus seek to scale up the complexity ofnatural language understanding (NLU) systems by pro-posing a computational method of handling mentalspaces.
In this paper we give a brief introduction toMental Space Theory (Section 2), and then explain howMental Space Theory can be incorporated into the exist-ing Neural Theory of Language (NTL) simulation-basedunderstanding framework (Section 3).
In this frame-work, each mental space is a separate thread of simula-tion.
Each thread of simulation comprises a dynamicstructure combining knowledge, event models and be-liefs that evolve over time.The use of a simulation-based framework imposesconstraints on how mental spaces are represented, andwe introduce a formalization of mental spaces based onEmbodied Construction Grammar (ECG).
As a casestudy (Section 4), we will walk through the formaliza-tion of English Conditionals (Dancygier and Sweetser,2004) using mental space analysis.
Through this casestudy we illustrate how mental spaces are parameterizedcompositionally by language, and capture this composi-tionality succinctly using construction grammar.
Thenwith these formal tools, we address the issue of infer-ence in mental spaces (Section 5), which is at the coreof the scaling up understanding.2 Mental Space TheoryMental spaces refer to the partial cognitive structuresbuilt up, usually through discourse, that provide a parti-tioning of contextual as well as world knowledge.
Thispartitioning in turn affects what inferences can bedrawn.
In traditional mental space analysis, certainlinguistic constructions called space builders may opena new mental space or shift focus to an existing space.Examples are in this picture?, Nancy thinks?, if itrains?, back in the ?50s?
(Fauconnier, 1997).
Considerthe following sentence:(1) In Harry?s painting of Paris, the Eiffel Tower isonly half-finished.Harry?s painting creates a new Depiction-Space.
TheEiffel Tower is the only entity local to this Depiction-Space, and it maps to the physical Eiffel Tower.
How-ever, only the Eiffel Tower in the Depiction-Space hasan additional attribute half-finished, and one should notbe led to think that the real Eiffel Tower is also half-done.
This kind of space-building is traditionally illus-trated in diagrams similar to Figure 1.In the mental space literature, the transfer of as-sumptions between spaces is guided by the presupposi-tion float principle.
The presupposition float principlestates that any presupposed structure in the parent spacecan float to a child space unless it conflicts with struc-ture already in that space.
In the above example, anyattributes about the real Eiffel Tower can be assumed inthe Depiction-Space, as long as they do not depend on itbeing finished.
However, this account of assumptionand inference transfer is incomplete.
Specifically, it isincorrect to assume that different types of mental spacesobey the same presupposition float principle.
For exam-ple, if we are having a conversation right now aboutHarry?s painting, very little of what is currently happen-ing should transfer into the Depiction-Space.
On theother hand, if we are having a conversation about ourplans for tomorrow, our current situation is very rele-vant to our actions tomorrow, and this informationshould carry over to the future space.
The other keypiece that is missing from the presupposition float ac-count is how inference is drawn across spaces in gen-eral.
Any computational account of mental spaces mustaddress this inference process precisely and supply aformalized representation that inference can operatewith.
We will outline such a computational solution inthe next two sections of this paper.3 Simulation-Based UnderstandingA central piece of a scalable computational treatment ofmental spaces is a robust language understandingframework.
Our work relies on the NTL simulation-based understanding paradigm (Narayanan, 1999;Chang et al, 2002b), and extends the model in a con-ceptually straightforward way.
The simulation-basedunderstanding paradigm stipulates that, in addition toconstructional analysis of the surface form, languageunderstanding requires active simulation.The constructional analysis is based on EmbodiedConstruction Grammar (Chang et al, 2002a) which con-tains four primitive types: schemas, constructions, mapsand mental spaces.
Schemas are the basic ECG unit ofmeaning, capturing embodied concepts such as imageschemas, actions, and events.
Constructions are the ba-sic linguistic unit, pairing meaning schemas with repre-sentations of linguistic form (words, clauses, etc.
).Maps and mental spaces are the subject of this paper,and will be discussed in detail in the next section.
It isworth noting that in the ECG formalism, in addition tosupport of an inheritance hierarchy (with the keywordsubcase of), there is also an evokes relation that makesan outside structure accessible to a schema through alocal name.
The evokes relation is neither a subcase-ofor part-of relation, but is analogous to spreading activa-tion in the neural sense.During analysis, a Semantic Specification (Sem-Spec) is created from the meaning poles of the construc-tions, and is essentially a network of schemas with theappropriate roles bounded and filled in.
Crucially,within this network of schemas are executing schemas(or X-schemas), which are models of events.
They areactive structures for event-based asynchronous controlthat can capture both sequential flow and concurrency.Simulation is a dynamic process which includesexecuting the X-schemas specified in the SemSpec andpropagating belief updates in a belief network.
Thismechanism is used for metaphor understanding in (Na-rayanan, 1999), and is being generalized to CoordinatedProbabilistic Relational Models (CPRM) in current ef-forts (Narayanan, submitted).
The CPRM mechanism isdiscussed in more detail in Section 5.Within a simulation-based understanding paradigm,each mental space involves a new thread of simulation,with its own separate belief network and simulationtrace.
This is necessary for keeping track of possiblycontradictory beliefs, such as the alternative scenarioswhere it is sunny or rainy tomorrow.
Each alternativescenario exists within its own mental space, and inmany situations, there can be a large number of alterna-tives.
However, not only is it computationally expensiveParent-Spacepainting         Eiffel TowerDepiction-SpaceEiffel Tower(half-finished)Figure 1.
The painting opens a Depiction-Space where the Eiffel Tower is half-finished.to create a new thread of simulation, but cognitive ca-pacity also constrains the number of concurrently openspaces.
We need both a cognitively plausible and com-putationally feasible theory of how mental spaces aremanipulated.The insight in addressing this problem is that at anygiven level of granularity, not all spaces need to beopened at the same time.
Harry?s painting, in example(1), may be represented at different granularity depend-ing on the context.
If it is discussed simply as a wall-hanging, the Depiction-Space need not be expanded andthe painting should be treated schematically as an ob-ject.
However, once the contents of the painting are un-der discussion (e.g., the trip to Paris during which thepainting was done), inference in a separate mental spaceis required, and the Depiction-Space needs to be built.As illustrated by this example, the simulation proc-ess dictates the actual building of mental spaces.
Theanalysis process is responsible for supplying all the nec-essary parameterization of the spaces and their corre-sponding maps in case they need to be built.
As a result,each potential space-builder is represented at two levelsof granularity ?
as an object in its schematic form and asa full mental space.Formalizing this idea in ECG, mental spaces arerepresented in two ways: as a compressed mental spaceand an uncompressed version.
In the ECG notation inFigure 2, the Compressed-Mental-Space is just aschema, and Mental-Space is of the space primitivetype.
In each version there is pointer to its counterpart,ums and cms respectively.
The role parent-space pointsto the parent of this space.
The uncompressed mentalspace contains the list of alternatives and the local-content.
Alternatives are scenarios that are different andcannot co-exist, such as the different activities onemight be doing tomorrow at noon.
Local-contentat noon.
Local-content provides the local semantics ofmental spaces, maintaining a list of predications that aretrue in this space, ceteris paribus.
Each predication con-tains a role local-to that denotes the space to which itbelongs.
The predication is then automatically added tothe local-content of the space when this role is assigned.Figure 3 shows an example of the Cause-Effect schemawith the cause, effect, and local-to role.In the next section, we will demonstrate the use ofthe above formalization with a case study on conditionalsentences in English.
In Section 5, we will discuss howthis representation supports the needed inference.4 Case Study: English ConditionalsOne of the most common classes of space-buildingexpressions is the predictive conditional.
Predictiveconditionals are sentences like(2) If it rains tomorrow, the game will be cancelled.They are space-builders, setting up a primary condi-tional space and an alternative space1 (Dancygier andSweetser, 2004).
As shown in Figure 4, in the primaryconditional space for tomorrow, it rains, and thereforethe game is cancelled.
In the alternative space, it doesnot rain, and the game is not cancelled.This case study will focus on predictive conditionalsin English.
An English predictive conditional is charac-terized by tense backshifting in the if clause, i.e., the useof the present tense for a future event.
On the meaningside, the condition and the conclusion are related bysome causal or enablement relationship.In this section we will gradually build up to the Con-ditional-Prediction construction by introducing the rele-vant schemas and smaller constructions.
It is importantto stress how construction grammar succinctly captureshow mental spaces can be parameterized in a composi-tional way.
The larger constructions supply informationabout the spaces that is not contained in any of itssmaller constituents.
Through compositionality, thegrammar becomes much more scalable in handling awide range of linguistic variations.1 Readers interested in the mental space analysis of other typesof English conditionals should refer to (Dancygier and Sweetser,2004), as well a technical report for the formalization (Bryant andMok, 2003).SCHEMA Compressed-Mental-SpaceROLESums: Mental-Spaceparent-space: Mental-SpacestatusCONSTRAINTSself ?
ums.cmsSPACE Mental-SpaceROLEScms: Compressed-Mental-Spaceparent: Mental-Spacealternatives: Mental-Spacelocal-contentCONSTRAINTSparent ?
cms.parent-spaceFigure 2.
ECG notation for Compressedand Uncompressed Mental SpacesSCHEMA Cause-EffectROLESCause: PredicationEffect: Predicationlocal-to: Mental-SpaceFigure 3.
Cause-Effect is a predicationthat contains a pointer to a Mental-Space4.1  ConditionsThe condition, often preceding the conclusion in a con-ditional statement, sets up or locates the space in whichthe conclusion is to be placed.
Therefore the Condi-tional-Schema, given below, is a subcase of the Com-pressed-Mental-Space.
In addition to the inherited roles,the Conditional-Schema has roles for a condition, apremise, and a conclusion.
The condition role stands forthe condition P as expressed, and premise can be P or~P, depending on the conjunction.
Finally, epistemic-stance is the degree of commitment that the speaker ismaking towards the condition happening, as indicatedby the choice of verb tense.
For example, a sentencesuch as If you got me a cup of coffee, I?d be gratefulforever (Dancygier and Sweetser, 2004) has a negativeepistemic stance.
The speaker makes a low commitment(by using the past tense got) so as to not sound pre-sumptuous, even though she may think that the ad-dressee will very likely bring her coffee.
On the otherhand, a counterfactual such as If I?d?ve known you werecoming, I?d?ve stayed home has a very negative epis-temic stance.
The speaker, in this case, implies that hedid not know the addressee was coming.4.2 The If constructionThe abstract construction Conditional-Conjunction is asupertype of lexical constructions If and other condi-tionals conjunctions.
Each conjunction leads to a differ-ent way of parameterizing the spaces, therefore aConditional-Conjunction does not have meaning on itsown.
Instead, it EVOKES two copies of the Conditional-Schema, one as primary and one as alternative.Given the Conditional-Conjunction and the Condi-tional-Schemas it evokes, the If construction only needsto hook up the correct premise and set the epistemic-stance to neutral.
The condition itself is not filled inuntil a larger construction uses the Conditional-Conjunction as a constituent.4.3  The Condition ConstructionThe Condition construction forms a Subordinate-Clausefrom a Conditional-Conjunction and a Clause, such as Ifit rains tomorrow from our game cancellation examplein (2).
The most important aspect of this construction isthat it identifies its meaning pole (a Conditional-Schema) with the Conditional-Schema that is evoked bythe Conditional-Conjunction, thereby preserving all theconstraints on the premise, epistemic-stance and statusthat the conjunction sets up.SCHEMA Conditional-SchemaSUBCASE OF Compressed-Mental-SpaceROLESepistemic-stancecondition: Predicationpremise: Predicationconclusion: Predicationums: Conditional-SpaceCONSTRAINTSepistemic-stance ?
ums.epistemic-stancepremise ?
ums.premiseconclusion ?
ums.conclusionSPACE Conditional-SpaceSUBCASE OF Mental-SpaceROLEScms: Conditional-Schemaepistemic-stancepremise: Predicationconclusion: PredicationCONSTRAINTSpremise.local-to ?
selfconclusion.local-to ?
selfFigure 5.
Conditional-Space has roles forpremise, conclusion and epistemic-stancelexical CONSTRUCTION IfSUBCASE OF Conditional-ConjunctionFORM: Wordself.f.orth ?
"if"MEANINGcs.premise ?
cs.conditioncs.epistemic-stance ?
neutralCONSTRUCTION Conditional-ConjunctionMEANINGEVOKES Conditional-Schema AS csEVOKES Conditional-Schema AS altFigure 6.
Conditional-Conjunctions evokestwo Conditional-Schemas.
The If constructionidentifies the  premise with the condition in theprimary spaceIf it rains tomorrow, the game will be cancelled.Base-SpaceIt rains tomorrow?The game is cancelledIt does not rain tomorrow?The game is not cancelledAlternative Spaceneutral neutralbackshiftingFigure 4.
A predictive conditional sets uptwo spacesIn addition, it also fills in the content of the conditionrole with the meaning of the Clause.
It sets the parent-space to the current focus-space.4.4  PredictionsPredictions are not space builders in and of themselves.Instead, they are simply events that are marked as fu-ture.
The Prediction-Schema is therefore not a subcaseof Compressed-Mental-Space.
It includes a predicted-event, which is a predication of category Event (denotedthrough the evokes statement and the binding), and abasis-of-prediction.
A predicted event also has an asso-ciated probability of happening, which may be suppliedlinguistically (through hedges like perhaps or proba-bly).
This probability directly affects what inferences wedraw based on the prediction, and is captured by thelikelihood-of-predicted-event role.4.5 The Prediction ConstructionThe Prediction construction is a Clause that evokes aPrediction-Schema in its meaning, such as the game willbe cancelled.
The meaning pole of a Clause is a Predica-tion.
The nature of prediction requires that the time ref-erence be future with respect to the viewpoint-space, inthis case, today.
The meaning of the Prediction construc-tion is itself the predicted-event.4.6 Conditional StatementsConditional-Statement is a very general constructionthat puts a Condition and a Clause together, in unre-stricted order.
The most important thing to notice is thatthis larger construction finally fills in the conclusion ofthe Condition with the meaning pole of the statement.4.7 Predictive ConditionalsTo a first approximation, a Conditional-Prediction is justa special case of the Conditional-Statement where thestatement has to be a Prediction.
However, extra carehas to be taken to ensure that the alternative spaces andcause-effect relations between the premises and conclu-sions are set up correctly.Recall that the Conditional-Conjunction EVOKES twoConditional-Schemas, which are either partially filled inor not filled in at all.
Intuitively, the goal of this con-struction is to completely fill out these two schemas(and their respective spaces), and put a Cause-Effectrelation between the premise and conclusion in the local-content of each space.A role alt is created with type Conditional-Schema tocapture the fact that there is an alternative space param-eterized by this construction.
alt is then identified withthe alternative Conditional-Schema evoked in the Condi-tional-Conjunction.
This allows the unused alternativeConditional-Schema in the If construction to be filled in.The complete filling out of both Conditional-Schemas are done by identifying the premise in the al-ternative schema with the negation of the premise in theFigure 7.
The Condition construction fillsin the content of the condition roleCONSTRUCTION ConditionSUBCASE OF Subordinate-ClauseCONSTRUCTIONALconj: Conditional-Conjunctioncl: ClauseFORMconj meets clMEANING: Conditional-Schemaself.m ?
conj.m.csself.m.condition ?
cl.mself.m.parent-space ?
focus-spaceSCHEMA Prediction-SchemaEVOKES Event AS eROLESpredicted-event: Predicationlikelihood-of-predicted-eventbasis-of-prediction: PredicationCONSTRAINTSpredicted-event.category ?
epredicted-event.time-location ?
futureFigure 8.
Predictions are not space-builders by themselves.CONSTRUCTION Conditional-StatementCONSTRUCTIONALcond: Conditionstatement: ClauseMEANINGcond.conclusion ?
statement.mFigure 10.
The Conditional-Statementconstruction puts together a Condition and aClauseCONSTRUCTION PredictionSUBCASE OF ClauseCONSTRUCTIONALtime-reference ?
relative-future (viewpoint-space)MEANING:EVOKES Prediction-Schema AS psps.predicted-event ?
self.mFigure 9.
The Prediction constructionmakes itself the predicted-event in thePrediction-Schemaprimary schema, and like-wise for the conclusion.
Theepistemic-stance of the alternative schema is set to theopposite of that in the primary.
For example, the oppo-site of a neutral stance is neutral, and the opposite of anegative stance is a positive stance.So far, the only things in the local-content of bothspaces are the premise and conclusion, which are justpredications without any relations between them.
Thenext two sections assert a Cause-Effect relation betweenthe respective premise and conclusion, and place that inthe local-content.
It also adds the other space to its listof alternatives.Finally, the last statement identifies the primarycause-effect with ce1 of the predicted-event (in theEvent schema), thereby filling in the cause of the pre-dicted-event.4.8 ExampleWith the Conditional-Prediction construction and thesmaller constructions in hand, along with the relatedschemas and spaces, we now return to example (2) inthe beginning of this section: If it rains tomorrow, thegame will be cancelled.Figure 12 shows the schemas and mental spaces thatresult from the analysis of this sentence.
The first half ofthe sentence, If it rains tomorrow, is an instance of theCondition construction.
The Conditional-Conjunction Ifevokes a primary and an alternative Conditional-Schema, and partially fills out the primary one.
Specifi-cally, the If construction sets the epistemic-stance toneutral, and identifies the premise with the condition.The Condition construction then fills in the conditionrole with the meaning of the Clause it rains tomorrow.For simplicity, the actual schemas for representing arain event are omitted from the diagram.The second half of the sentence, the game will becancelled, is an instance of the Prediction construction.The basic job that the Prediction construction performsis to fill in the predicted-event with the actual predic-tion, i.e., game cancellation tomorrow.At this point, given a Condition with if and a Predic-tion, an instance of the Conditional-Prediction construc-tion is formed, and the diagram in Figure 12 iscompleted.
The predicted-event is filled into the conclu-sion in the primary Conditional-Schema.
The alternativeConditional-Schema, previously untouched by If, nowgets the negated premise and conclusion.
A primaryCause-Effect (ce-Primary) is evoked and placed into thelocal-content of the primary Conditional-Space, andlikewise for the alternative space.
The two spaces arethen linked as alternatives.5 Inference and ScalabilityAs we discussed in Section 3, the ECG simulation se-mantics approach to NLU involves both dynamic simu-lations and extensive belief propagation.
This approachleads to systems that are scalable in semantic depth.
Forsuch systems to be practical, we also need them to bescalable in size.
In recent work, (Narayanan, submitted)has shown how the dynamic simulations and beliefpropagation techniques can be tightly coupled in ahighly scalable formalism called CPRM, CoordinatedProbabilistic Relation Models.This same formalism also provides the tools for asystematic treatment of inference across mental spaces,which correspond to separate threads of simulation.Returning to example (2) in the last section, If it rainstomorrow, the game will be cancelled, we can nowmake additional inference about the hypothetical sce-nario and the actions of the participants involved.
Onecan ask, what if the game is cancelled and the partici-pants need to plan for other activities?
How will theseactivities affect their actions today?The CPRM mechanism elegantly handles the trans-fer of assumptions and inferences needed to answersuch questions.
While the varying types of mentalspaces have different rules of inference, all of the cou-plings are of only two different types, both of which arehandled nicely by CPRM.
Any two mental spaces willbe related either by some shared assumptions, someFigure 11.
The Conditional-Predictionconstruction fills out the parameterization ofboth the primary and alternative spacesCONSTRUCTION Conditional-PredictionSUBCASE OF Conditional-StatementCONSTRUCTIONALstatement: Predictionstatement.time-reference ?
relative-future(condition.time-reference)MEANING:EVOKES Cause-Effect AS ce-primaryEVOKES Cause-Effect AS ce-alternativealt: Conditional-Schemaalt ?
cond.conj.altalt.premise ?
not(cond.premise)alt.conclusion ?
not(cond.conclusion)alt.epistemic-stance ?
opposite(cond.epistemic-stance)ce-primary.cause ?
cond.premisece-primary.effect ?
cond.conclusionce-primary.local-to ?
cond.mspalt.msp.local-to ?
cond.msp.alternativesce-alternative.cause ?
not(cond.premise)ce-alternative.effect ?
not(cond.conclusion)ce-alternative ?
alt.mspalt.msp.alternatives ?
cond.mspce-primary ?
assertion.ps.predicted-event.ce1influence links, or both.
Since the CPRM formalism isinherently nested, it is straightforward to have sharedspaces.
For example, if several people are watching agame and are talking about it, the progress of the gameis a (dynamic) shared space that is common ground forall the speakers.Influence links are the central primitive in all beliefnetworks, including CPRM.
These encode the effect ofone attribute on the conditional probabilities of anotherattribute.
In the mental space context, we employ ex-plicit influence links to encode the dependencies of onespace on attributes of another space.
In the game cancel-lation example, the participants can choose to furtherplan for the scenario where it does rain.
They mightpick a backup plan, for example going to the theater.
Ifthis backup plan requires some resource (e.g.
a discountcard), there should be an influence link back to the pre-sent plan suggesting that the discount card be broughtalong.More generally, each particular kind of mental spacerelation will have its own types of shared knowledgeand influence links.
Some of these can be evoked byparticular constructions.
For example: Harry neveragrees with Bob would set up dependency links betweenour models of the minds of these two individuals.
Itshould be feasible to use these mechanisms to formalizethe informal insights in the Cognitive Linguistics litera-ture and therefore significantly extend the range ofNLU.6 ConclusionIn this paper we have provided a computational realiza-tion of mental spaces.
Within a simulation-based under-standing framework, a mental space corresponds to anew thread of simulation, implementable using the Co-ordinated Probabilistic Relational Model formalism.Cognitive and computational constraints demand thateach mental space be represented at two levels of granu-larity: as a schema (compressed-mental-space) and as afull space.
The analyzer, using constructions like theones shown in the case study, creates a Semantic Speci-fication parameterizing the compressed and uncom-pressed versions of each mental space.
Simulationdetermines the correct level of granularity to operate on,and builds new mental spaces only when it is necessaryto perform inference in the new space.
Once a new men-tal space is built, shared spaces and influence links be-tween any two mental spaces can be defined to allowthe transfer of inference between the spaces.Our proposed formalization of mental spaces allowssystems to be scalable in both size and semantic depth:(i) Our formalization makes explicit how mental spacespartition contextual knowledge into manageable chunks,Parent-SpaceLocal-contentalternativesneutral neutralepistemic-stance: neutralconditionalt: Conditional-Schemaparent-space:umsconclusion: Game will not be cancelledpremise: It doesn't rain tomorrow ~1status~2epistemic-stance: neutralcondition: It rains tomorrowcond: Conditional-Schemaparent-space: Focus-Space (Base)umsconclusion: Game will be cancelledpremise: It rains tomorrowstatus112predicted-event: Game will be cancelledPrediction-Schemabasis-of-predictionlikelihood-of-prediction2alt.umsLocal-content:conclusion: Game will not becancelledpremise: It doesn?t rain tomorrow ~1~2ce-Alternativecauseeffect~1~2cond.umsLocal-content:conclusion: Game will be cancelledpremise: It rains tomorrow 12ce-Primarycauseeffect12Figure 12.
If it rains tomorrow, the game will be cancelled.thereby providing significant computational advantage.
(ii) By using Embodied Construction Grammar, ourformalization provides a compositional approach toparameterizing mental spaces.
Compositionality has theadvantage of allowing a small grammar to handle alarge degree of linguistic variation.
(iii) During simula-tion, new threads of simulation are built only as needed,obeying cognitive capacity constraints as well as mak-ing mental spaces computationally tractable.
(iv) CPRMprovides a tightly coupled, scalable inference mecha-nism that handles the couplings between mental spaces.Our proposed mental space formalism thus provides aprecise and scalable means for handling a rich body ofcomplex linguistics phenomena beyond the reach ofcurrent NLU systems.ReferencesJohn Bryant and Eva Mok.
2003.
Constructing EnglishConditionals: Building Mental Spaces in ECG.
Tech-nical Report.Nancy Chang, Jerome Feldman, Robert Porzel andKeith Sanders.
2002.
Scaling Cognitive Linguistics:Formalisms for Language Understanding.
First In-ternational Workshop on Scalable Natural LanguageUnderstanding (SCANALU 2002).Nancy Chang, Srini Narayanan and Miriam R.L.Petruck.
2002.
From Frames to Inference.
First In-ternational Workshop on Scalable Natural LanguageUnderstanding (SCANALU 2002).Barbara Dancygier and Eve Sweetser.
2004.
MentalSpaces In Grammar: Conditional Constructions.Cambridge University Press.
In Press.Gilles Fauconnier.
1985.
Mental spaces: Aspects ofmeaning construction in natural language.
Cam-bridge:  MIT Press.Gilles Fauconnier.
1997.
Mappings in Thought andLanguage.
New York: Cambridge University Press.Srini Narayanan.
1999.
Moving Right Along: A Compu-tational Model of Metaphoric Reasoning aboutEvents.
Proceedings of the National Conference onArtificial Intelligence (AAAI '99), Orlando, Florida,July 18-22, 1999, pp 121-128, AAAI Press, 1999.
