Modeling sentence processing in ACT-RShravan VasishthDepartment of Computational LinguisticsSaarland University, PO Box 15 11 0566041 Saarbru?cken, Germanyvasishth@acm.orgRichard L. LewisDepartment of PsychologyUniversity of MichiganAnn Arbor, MI, USArickl@umich.eduAbstractWe present a series of simulations of behavioral databy casting a simple parsing model in the cognitivearchitecture ACT-R. We show that constraints de-fined in ACT-R, specifically those relating to acti-vation, can account for a range of facts about hu-man sentence processing.
In doing so, we arguethat resource limitation in working memory is bet-ter defined as an artefact of very general and in-dependently motivated principles of cognitive pro-cessing.1 IntroductionAlthough language processing may be a specializedcognitive faculty, it is possible that it is neverthelessshaped by general constraints on the human cog-nitive architecture.
This point has been addressedextensively in the connectionist literature, but wepresent a somewhat different approach to this prob-lem by casting parsing within the cognitive architec-ture ACT-R (Anderson et al, 2002) and directly us-ing the constraints provided in ACT-R to account forseveral interesting cross-linguistic facts: the well-known sentential complement/relative clause asym-metry (Gibson, 2000; Grodner and Gibson, 2003)and the subject/object relative clause asymmetry inEnglish (Homes and O?Regan, 1981); and some re-cent results (Vasishth, 2003) involving Hindi centerembeddings, including a principled account of indi-vidual variation in subject behavior.In developing this approach, we argue that re-source limitation in working memory is better de-fined as an artefact of very general constraints oninformation processing ?
specifically, rehearsal andactivation ?
rather than as an inherent numericalbound on memory capacity (cf.
(Gibson, 2000;Hawkins, 1994); also see Section 3.5).In the rest of this paper, we first introduce theACT-R architecture.
Then we present the resultsof several simulations of experiments available inthe psycholinguistic literature.
The paper concludeswith a discussion of the potential advantages andshortcomings of this approach, and of the broaderconsequences of modeling parsing within a cogni-tive architecture.2 A brief introduction to the cognitivearchitecture ACT-RACT-R is a theory of the human cognitive archi-tecture.
It allows the development of computa-tional models that can closely simulate experimentalmethodologies such as eye-tracking and self-pacedreading, and has been used to model a wide array ofbehavioral data from learning and memory, problemsolving and decision making, language and commu-nication, perception and attention, cognitive devel-opment, and individual differences (Anderson et al,2002).The ACT-R architecture is attractive as a model-ing tool for three reasons.
First, it is based on a widearray of empirical results in various domains of cog-nitive psychology.
Second, it is flexible enough topermit the modeler to add their own assumptionsand theories about the specific task to be modeled.Finally, ACT-R models yield dependent measuressuch as reading time in much the same way as hu-mans performing the experiment; e.g., the systemcan easily be programmed to simulate key pressesafter it processes material presented on the screen.As shown in Figure 1, the architecture consists ofseveral MODULES such as Declarative, Visual, andManual.
Each module is associated with a BUFFERwhich temporarily stores information for a given ac-tion.
For example, the visual buffer is used to storean item ?seen?
by the system in the environment be-fore it is used in the service of some task.The module that is especially important for thepresent paper is the Declarative (henceforth, DM).DM represents permanent memory: every fact thatis assumed to be known is encoded as a CHUNK indeclarative memory.
A chunk is an attribute-valuelist structure with a special attribute, ISA, which de-fines its type.
The attributes are also referred to asslots.
The value of a chunk?s slot is also (by defi-nition) a chunk, unless it is double-quoted or is theIntentional Module Declarative moduleEnvironmentVisual module Manual moduleVisual buffer Manual bufferMatchingSelectionExecutionRetrieval bufferGoal bufferProductionsFigure 1: This is a schematic view of the ACT-Rsystem.
?Environment?
is the outside world thatACT-R is programmed to interact with.
The arrowsshow the possible flows of information.
Productionsand the central box with the boxes labeled ?Match-ing?, ?Selection?, and ?Execution?
are intended torepresent a set of central executive mechanisms andprocesses.lisp primitive ?nil?.Each DM chunk has an activation that determinesits speed of retrieval, and the probability that it willbe retrieved; the initial activation for a given chunkcan be set manually.There is a GOAL BUFFER that holds a current goalunder consideration (there can be only one goal atone time); this goal is a chunk with a given type andpossibly instantiated slots.The control structure for modeling a sequence ofevents is a set of PRODUCTIONS; a production issimply an if-then statement of the following generalform: for a given state of one or more buffers and/orDM, execute some actions.
Examples of executingactions are retrieving something from DM; chang-ing a value in one of the goal?s slots; repositioningthe hand over a keyboard; a visual shift of attention;changing the goal to a new one, etc.
If the goal ischanged, then this new goal now occupies the goalbuffer.Building an ACT-R model is essentially a defi-nition of possible sequences of actions for a givenstate of affairs.
Events like retrievals from DM aretriggered by looking at the contents of one or morebuffers.
For example, the ACT-R system ?sees?
anitem/object on the screen and then encodes it as a vi-sual chunk.
This chunk can then be harvested fromthe visual buffer; it includes (as slot-value specifi-cations) information about the content of the itemseen, its x-y coordinates, etc.
One can define an ac-tion based on this information, such as retrieving achunk from DM.3 Modeling sentence parsing in ACT-RPrevious research suggests that humans employsome variant of left-corner parsing (see, e.g.,(Resnik, 1992)), which in essence involves abottom-up and a top-down (predictive) step.
Weadopt this parsing strategy in the simulations.
Inorder to model the prediction of syntactic struc-ture based on incrementally appearing input, we as-sume that sentence structure templates are availablein declarative memory as underspecified chunks.These chunks are retrieved every time a new word isintegrated into the structure, as are prior argumentsnecessary for semantic integration.We illustrate the parsing process with a simpleexample (Figure 2).
Suppose that the sentence to beparsed is The girl ran, and suppose that we are sim-ulating self-paced reading (Just et al, 1982).
Whenthe word the is seen, a bottom-up and top-downstructure building step results in a sentence with anintransitive verb being predicted.
This structure be-comes the current goal.
Then the word girl is seenand processed, i.e., its lexical entry is retrieved fromdeclarative memory.
The noun slot in the goal isthen instantiated with that lexical entry.
In the nextstep, if the word ran is seen the relevant lexical itemfor the verb is retrieved and instantiated with theverb slot of the goal; here, the verb?s argument isalso retrieved and integrated with the subcategoriza-tion frame of the verb.
If, instead of ran the wordthat appears, a new goal is created, with any pre-viously instantiated slots of the preceding goal be-ing passed on to the new goal, and parsing proceedsfrom there.Each retrieval of a goal from memory results ina surge in its activation, so that repeated retrievalsresult in increased activation; and the higher the ac-tivation of an item the faster it is processed.
At thesame time, activation decays according to the powerlaw of forgetting (Anderson et al, 2002).
In thesame way that the goals undergo decay and reacti-vation, so do the previously seen words.
This meansthat the speed of retrieval of a previously seen argu-ment at a verb will be determined by the activationlevel of that argument.
Thus, the activation of boththe goals (predicted structures) and the argumentsaffect processing.In our simulations, for simplicity we code in theexact steps that ACT-R takes for particular sen-tences.
Although it is feasible to build a very gen-Det N V1theSranDet NgirlSthatt V2V1theNP NPNPNPDet N V1girltheSDet N V1girltheSS?SFigure 2: A simple illustration of parsing steps inthe ACT-R simulations presented.eral parser in pure ACT-R, before doing this wewanted to first establish whether ACT-R?s reacti-vation mechanisms can account for a reasonablearray of facts from the sentence processing litera-ture.
In (Lewis and Vasishth, An activation-basedmodel of sentence processing as skilled memory re-trieval, (tentative title; in preparation)) we providea detailed description of a model employing mech-anisms similar to those described here, but one thatbehaves more like a standard parser.3.1 English subject versus object relativeclausesIt is well known (Homes and O?Regan, 1981) thatEnglish subject relatives are easier to process thatobject relatives (1).
In the parsing model outlinedabove, we can model this result without changingany ACT-R parameters at all (i.e., we use the defaultsettings for the parameters).
(1) a.
The reporter who sent the photographerto the editor hoped for a good story.b.
The reporter who the photographer sentto the editor hoped for a good story.The explanation comes from the decay of the ar-guments of the verb sent: in object relatives theargument reporter decays much more than in thesubject relative by the time it is integrated with theverb?s subcategorization frame (Figure 3).
This isbecause more time elapses between the argumentbeing first seen and its retrieval at the verb.11A reviewer points out that several head-final languagessuch as German and Dutch also have a subject relative pref-erence and in these languages the activation level cannot be theexplanation.
We do not claim that decay is the only constraintoperating in parsing; frequency effects (greater preference for3004005006007008009001000PositionMeanReadingTime(msec)1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13Object RelativeSubject RelativeThe reporterwhosentThe reporterwhothephotographersentFigure 3: The reading times provided by the model.Retrieval of reporter at sent is harder in the objectrelative because of increased argument decay.3.2 The SC/RC asymmetry in EnglishIt is also well-known (Gibson, 2000) that a senten-tial complement (SC) followed by a relative clause(RC) is easier to process than an RC followed by anSC:(2) a.
The fact that the employee who themanager hired stole office supplies wor-ried the executive.b.
#The executive who the fact that theemployee stole office supplies worriedhired the manager.As in the previous discussion about relativeclauses, in the harder case the decay of the argumentexecutive at the verb worried is greater comparedto the decay of the argument employee at hired inthe easier-to-process sentence.
In addition, the to-tal reading time for the harder sentence is about 120msec longer.23.3 Hindi center embeddingsPrevious work (Hakes, 1972), (Konieczny, 2000)has shown that if argument-verb distance is in-creased, processing is easier at the verb.
(Vasishth,more frequently occurring subject relatives) etc.
could certainlydominate where the amount of decay is constant in subject andobject relatives.
It is an open empirical question whether fre-quency alone can account for the subject/object asymmetry inEnglish, but given that we have independent empirical justi-fication for decay (see Section 3.5), the above is a plausibleexplanation.2As a reviewer points out, ?the account in terms of acti-vation decay suggests that the SC/RC asymmetry can be an-nihilated or even reversed by inserting longer or shorter NPsbetween the critical verbs (worried, hired) and their arguments(executive, employee).
This seems unrealistic.?
This is surelyan empirical question that needs to be verified experimentally;we intend to pursue this very interesting issue in future work.400500600700800900the factthattheemployeewho themanagerhiredstoleofficesuppliesworriedtheexecutiveSC/RC (easy); total RT = 7482 msectheexecutivewho the factthattheemployeestoleofficesuppliesworriedhired themanagerRC/SC (hard); total RT = 7605 msecReadingTime(msec)RC/SCSC/RCFigure 4: Model?s behavior in the complement-clause/relative-clause contrast.2003) presented similar results in Hindi.
The Hindiexperiment manipulated distance by comparing thebaseline condition (3a) with the case where an ad-verb intervened (3b), a verb-modifying PP inter-vened (3c), and relative clause intervened that mod-ified the preceding NP (3d).
(3) a. Siitaa-neSita-ergHari-koHari-datRavi-koRavi-dat[kitaab-kobook-acckhariid-neko]buy-infbol-nekotell-infkahaatold?Sita told Hari to tell Ravi to buy thebook.?b.
Siitaa-neSita-ergHari-koHari-datRavi-koRavi-dat[kitaab-kobook-accjitnii-jaldii-ho-sakeas-soon-as-possiblekhariid-neko]buy-infbol-nekotell-infkahaatold?Sita told Hari to tell Ravi to buy thebook as soon as possible.?c.
Siitaa-neSita-ergHari-koHari-datRavi-koRavi-dat[kitaab-kobook-accek bar.hiya dukaan sefrom-a-good-shopkhariid-neko]buy-infbol-nekotell-infkahaatold?Sita told Hari to tell Ravi to buy thebook from a good shop.?d.
Siitaa-neSita-ergHari-koHari-datRavi-koRavi-dat[kitaab-kobook-accjo-mez-par-thiithat-was-on-a-tablekhariid-neko]buy-infbol-nekotell-infkahaatold?Sita told Hari to tell Ravi to buy thebook that was lying on a/the table.
?In all the ?insertion?
cases a statistically signifi-cant speedup was observed at the verb, compared tothe baseline condition.This experiment?s results were replicated in theACT-R system; the replication is based on the as-sumption that the goal (predicted syntactic struc-ture) is reactivated each time it (i.e., the entire pre-dicted structure) is modified.
The intervening itemsresult in an extra retrieval compared to the base-line, resulting in faster processing at the verb.
Inthis model, one parameter was changed: the rate ofdecay of items.
We justify this change in the nextsub-section.The modeling results are shown in Figure 5.?
Adv PP RCDataReadingtimes(msec)02004006008001000?
Adv PP RCModelReadingtimes(msec)02004006008001000Figure 5: Reading times from data versus model, atthe first verb.3.4 Individual variation in Hindi centerembedding dataIn the Hindi experiment, there was a further varia-tion in the data when individual subjects?
data wereconsidered: only about 48% of subjects showed aspeedup at the verb.
About 21% showed a slow-down and there was only a few milliseconds differ-ence (essentially no difference) in the reading timesfor about 31% of the subjects.
The observed varia-tion was a systematic trend in the sense that the 47%of the subjects who showed a speedup or slowdownin adverb-insertion case also showed the same trendin the PP- and RC-inserted cases ?
the probability ofthis happening is considerably below chance level.The rate of decay defined in ACT-R?s rehearsalequation can systematically explain this variation.Consider the situation where a chunk   with an ini-tial activation of  is retrieved.
The activation is0200400600800100012001400d=0.01ReadingTimeatfirst verb(msec)Data ModelNo AdverbAdverbFigure 6: Modeling speedup.0200400600800100012001400d=0.5ReadingTimeatfirst verb(msec)Data ModelNo AdverbAdverbFigure 7: Modeling slowdown.0200400600800100012001400d=0.16ReadingTimeatfirst verb(msec)Data ModelNo AdverbAdverbFigure 8: Modeling no difference in reading time.recalculated each time a retrieval occurs, accordingto the following equation.
(4)    Here,  is the number of times the chunk   wassuccessfully retrieved,is the time elapsed sincethe  -th retrieval, and  is a decay rate that defaultsto fiffffifl in ACT-R.
This equation reflects the log oddsthat a chunk would reoccur as function of how it hasappeared in the past (Anderson et al, 2002, 17).It turns out that the  parameter take us beyondboolean predictions:    ff!
results in a speedup;   ffffifl results in a slowdown; and    ff #" results inno difference in RT at the verb; see Figures 6 to 8.33.5 Comparison with other modelsThe model presented here is very different in con-ception from existing models of sentence process-ing.
For example, consider Early Immediate Con-sistuents (Hawkins, 1994) and Discourse LocalityTheory (Gibson, 2000), two theories with signif-icant empirical coverage.
Both theories proposevariants of what we will call the distance hypothe-sis: increasing the distance between arguments anda subsequently appearing verb (head) that selectsfor them results in increased processing difficulty atthe verb.
Distance here is quantified in terms of thenumber of words in a constituent (EIC) or the num-ber of new discourse referents introduced betweenthe arguments and head (DLT).The present model claims that distance effectsare actually a result of argument decay.
Prelimi-nary evidence that it is really decay and not EIC-or DLT-defined distance comes from a recent self-paced listening experiment (Vasishth et al, 2004) inwhich two conditions were contrasted: argumentsand verbs with (a) an adjunct intervening, (b) si-lence:(5) a. vo-kaagazthat-paper/ jiskowhichus-lar.ke-nethat-boy-erg/ meztableke-piichebehindgire-huefallen/ dekhaasaw/bahut-puraanaavery-oldthaawas?That paper which that boy saw fallenbehind a/the table was very old.?b.
vo-kaagazthat-paper/ jiskowhichus-lar.ke-nethat-boy-erg/SILENCE / dekhaasaw/ bahut-puraanaavery-oldthaawas?That paper which that boy saw wasvery old.
?In (5), the arguments kaagaz, ?paper?, and lar.kaa,?boy?
are separated from the verb dekhaa, ?saw?
by3Of course, modeling individual variation in terms of differ-ing rates of decay assumes that subjects exhibit varying degreesof decay rates.
An experiment is currently in progress that at-tempts to correlate varying verbal sentence span with subjectbehavior in the insertion cases.an adjunct containing two4 discourse referents (5a);or by silence (5b).
Subjects were allowed to inter-rupt the silence and continue listening to the rest ofthe sentence whenever they wanted to.
Subjects in-terruped the silence (on an average) after about 1.4seconds.Distance based theories predict that having an in-tervening adjunct that introduces discourse referentsshould result in greater processing difficulty at theverb dekhaa, ?saw?, compared to when silence in-tervenes.
If decay rather than distance is the criticalfactor here that affects processing, then there shouldbe greater difficulty at the verb in the silence con-dition than when in the items intervene (see Sec-tion 3.3 for why intervening items may facilitateprocessing).
The results support the activation ac-count: introducing silence results in significantlylonger reading times at the verb dekhaa than whenintervening items occur.4 ConclusionThese modeling efforts suggest that very generalconstraints on information processing can providea principled account of parsing phenomena, andalso brings human sentence parsing in closer con-tact with models of human working memory in cog-nitive psychology (Miyake and Shah, 1999).There are of course certain potential limitationsin the work presented here.
Several alternative hy-potheses remain to be explored, e.g., the role ofcompetence grammar and its own (possibly theory-internal) operations on processing; the role of expe-rience (Crocker and Brants, 2000), etc.
However,the present research is a necessary first step since itprovides a basis for such a comparison.Secondly, there are specific assumptions in themodel that may be controversial.
For example, weassume that entire sentence structures are predictedas goal chunks, and not verb-types (cf.
(Konieczny,2000)).
We are conducting further experiments toexplore the predictions made by different assump-tions.Finally, we have used toy simulations to ex-plore the ACT-R constraint-interaction space, thetask of scaling up such a model to parse essentiallyany kind of input is necessary, but still in the fu-ture.
However, we believe that the results presentedare suggestive of the way in which a cognitively-oriented parser could be constructed.4In DLT finite verbs also assumed to introduce a discoursereferent.5 AcknowledgementsWe thank the two anonymous reviewers.
This re-search was partly funded by the Sonderforschungs-bereich 378 (EM6, NEGRA).ReferencesJ.R.
Anderson, D. Bothell, M.D.
Byrne, andC.
Lebiere.
2002.
An integrated theory ofthe mind.
MS, available from http://www.act-r.psy.cmu.edu/papers/403/IntegratedTheory.pdf.M.
W. Crocker and T. Brants.
2000.
Wide-coverageprobabilistic sentence processing.
Journal ofPsycholinguistic Research, 29(6):647?669.Edward Gibson.
2000.
Dependency locality theory:A distance-based theory of linguistic complexity.In Alec Marantz, Yasushi Miyashita, and WayneO?Neil, editors, Image, Language, Brain: Papersfrom the First Mind Articulation Project Sympo-sium.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Daniel Grodner and Edward Gibson.
2003.
Con-sequences of the serial nature of linguistic input.MS.David T. Hakes.
1972.
On understanding sen-tences: In search of a theory of sentence compre-hension.
Microfilm, University of Texas, Austin.John A. Hawkins.
1994.
A Performance Theory ofOrder and Constituency.
Cambridge UniversityPress, New York.V.M.
Homes and J.K. O?Regan.
1981.
Eye fixationpatterns during the reading of relative clause sen-tences.
Journal of Verbal Learning and VerbalBehavior, 20:417?430.M.
A.
Just, P. A. Carpenter, and J. D. Woolley.1982.
Paradigms and processes in reading com-prehension.
Journal of Experimental Psychol-ogy: General, 111(2):228?238.Lars Konieczny.
2000.
Locality and parsing com-plexity.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Research,29(6):627?645.Akira Miyake and Priti Shah, editors.
1999.
Mod-els of Working Memory.
Cambridge UniversityPress, New York.Philip Resnik.
1992.
Left?corner parsing and psy-chological plausibility.
In Proceedings of COL-ING, pages 191?197.Shravan Vasishth, Richard L. Lewis, Rama KantAgnihotri, and Hans Uszkoreit.
2004.
Distin-guishing distance and decay.
Submitted.Shravan Vasishth.
2003.
Quantifying processingdifficulty in human sentence parsing: The roleof decay, activation, and similarity-based interfer-ence.
In Proceedings of the EuroCogSci confer-ence, Osnabrueck, Germany.
