Underspecification of ?meaning?
: the case of Russian imperfectiveaspectBarbara SonnenhauserUniversity of LeipzigBeethovenstr.
1504107 Leipzig, Germanybasonne@rz.uni-leizpig.deAbstractOne main problem for NLP applicationsis that natural language expressions areunderspecified and require enrichmentsof different sorts to get a truth-conditional interpretaton in context.
Un-derspecification applies on two levels:what is said underdetermines what ismeant, and linguistic meaning under-specifies what is said.
One instance ofthis phenomenon is aspect in Russian,especially the imperfective one.
It givesrise to a variety of readings, which aredifficult to capture by one invariantmeaning.
Instead, the imperfective aspectis sense-general; its meaning has to bespecified in the course of interpretationby contextual cues and pragmatic infer-ences.
This paper advocates an accountof the different imperfective readings interms of pragmatic principles and infer-ential heuristics based on, and suppliedby, a semantic skeleton consisting of a?selectional theory?
of aspect.
Thisframework might serve as basis for arule-guided derivation of aspectual read-ings in Russian.1 Linguistic underspecificationNatural language expressions deliver merelytemplates for the construction of a contextuallyrelevant interpretation, namely the propositionalmeaning the hearer ascribes to the respectiveperceived utterance.
What is linguistically givendelivers only part of the input necessary for in-terpretation and has to be enriched and specifiedby recourse to sentence-level and discourse-levelcontext, as well as to world-knowledge.
Proposi-tions, i.e.
truth-conditional content, arise onlyafter that enrichment process has taken place.NLP applications need to capture the meaningof a linguistic input to adequately work with it inthe respective applications.
But the ?meaning?relevant in this case, viz.
the intended interpreta-tion of an utterance, is underspecified by thelexically given input in at least two ways.
Lin-guistic meaning underspecifies propositions, i.e.
?what is said?
(Carston, 2002), and ?what is said?in turn underspecifies ?what is meant?
(Grice,1989).
Both kinds of underspecification have tobe solved by the hearer in natural discourse set-tings, and by the corresonding algorithms inNLP-applications.
As such applications necessar-ily rely on linguistically given input, they have tobe supplemented by a systematic account of theinferential mechanisms needed to enrich andspecify the lexical schemes.
A further difficultyfor NLP applications is that, presuming someform of cooperativity, any utterance can be inter-preted by appropriately accommodating the con-text.Apparently, computing the contextually rele-vant interpretation of an utterance requires morethan capturing and computing lexical input.
Itrelies crucially on further information and prin-ciples of how to derive that information andcombine it with what is lexically given.
Informa-tion ?
contextual or conceptual ?
that is not con-tained in the natural language string currentlybeing processed is subject to pragmatic actions(Perrett, 2000: 102).This paper is organized as follows: Section 2illustrates the assumptions on pragmatic reason-ing relevant here.
Section 3 deals with Russianipf aspect as one example of linguistic under-specification and sketches the semantics andpragmatics involved in the derivation of its read-ings.
Implications for NLP will be given in sec-tion 4, and section 5 offers a short conclusion.2 Pragmatic ReasoningThe twofold underspecification of natural lan-guage expressions is resolved by pragmatic rea-soning: ?implicatures?, derived by inferencealone, enrich what is said to what is meant and?explicatures?, derived by decoding plus infer-ence, enrich the lexical input to what is said.Both interact in mutual parallel adjustment, inthat the expectation of certain implicatures con-strains the possible range of explicatures.
Thus,we are dealing with two kinds of semantics ?lexical and propositonal ?
and with two kinds ofpragmatics ?
explicature and implicature (Car-ston, 2002):Figure 1.
Interaction of Semantics and PragmaticsThe pragmatic actions can be captured by Le-vinson?s (2000) heuristics, whose applicationgives rise to default interpretations by evokingcertain inferences.
The heuristics and their corre-sponding inferences are based on Grice?s Max-ims of Conversation: Q-heuristics are based onthe first quantity maxim (?make your statementas informative as possible?)
and license inferenceto the negation or invalidity of a correspondingstronger expression, M-heuristics stem from vio-lations of the manner maxim (esp.
?avoid obscu-rity of expression?
and ?avoid prolixity?
), andlicense the inference from marked expressions tomarked interpretations.
I-heuristics are based onthe second quantity maxim (?do not say morethan necessary?)
and allow for inference to astereotype.
Contrary to the Gricean view, how-ever, these are assumed to work partly also onthe subpropositional level giving rise to ?explica-tures?
(Carston, 2002), thereby enriching andconstraining the underspecified lexical represen-tation.An advantage of using heuristics giving rise todefault interpretations is that they capture the factthat real minds have to make decisions underconstraints of limited time and knowledge.
Inhand-ling tasks like interpretation, humans haveto use approximate methods like heuristics thatguide the search and determine when it shouldend, and simple decision rules that make use ofthe information found.
To behave adaptively inthe environment in general, and in interpretingutterances in special, humans must be able tomake inferences that are fast, frugal and accurate(Gigerenzer et al, 1999).
These inferences, or theheuristics they are based on, respectively, workwell insofar as they make a tradeoff on the di-mension of generality vs. specificity.
Their sim-plicity allows them to be robust when confrontedwith a change in environment and to generalizeto new situations.
Such heuristics are rather suit-able  means for dealing with underspecified,sense-general linguistic expressions that equallymake a tradeoff between underdetermination andpreciseness.
Furthermore, heuristics are of thekind NLP applications can deal with (section 4).Levinson?s heuristics, at least the M- and Q-heuristics, are instances of such fast and frugalheuristics that give rise to default inferenceswhich have to be made more specific in thecourse of interpretation.
This is achieved by therather specific I-heuristics, that give rise to infer-ences by referring to assumptions provided by aconcept being activated by a lexical item in acertain context and discourse setting.3 Ipf aspect in RussianOne instance of underspecification is aspect inRussian, especially the ipf1, which gives rise to aconsiderable variety of readings (1a-g).
Theircontext-dependence and defeasibility indicatestheir partial pragmatic character.1a.
actual-processual reading?ar medlenno podnimalsja.balloon slowly ascend:PAST:ipf?The balloon was ascending slowly.?1b.
inactual readingRan?
?e on rabotal v universitete.in the past he work:PAST:ipf at university:LOC.
?He used to work as a teacher.?1c.
general-factual readingVot na ?toj stene visela kartina.there at that wall:LOChang:PAST:ipf painting.
?There was a painting hanging on that wall.?1d.
durative readingOna dolgo smotrela na fotografii.she for a long time look:PAST:ipf at photographs:ACC?She looked at the photos for a long time.?1e.
atemporal reading?elezo tonet v vode.iron go down:PAST:ipf in water:LOC?Iron goes down in water.
?1 ?ipf?
= (Russian) imperfective aspect; ?pf?
= (Russian) perfective aspect32Logical formPropositionImplicatureSemPragTruth-cond.Explic.Lexical1Implic.1f.
potential readingChoro?ij byl slesar?
: ljubye zamki otkryval.good PAST locksmith:every lock:Pl open:PAST:ipf?He was a good locksmith: he could openevery door.?1g.
habitual readingPo subbotam, ona chodila v banju.on  saturday,  she go:PAST:ipf to sauna?She used to go to the sauna on Saturdays.
?This variety makes it difficult to capture thesemantics of ipf with one invariant meaning.Postulating polysemy does not solve the problemeither, as this would presuppose the existence ofa clearly defined number of discrete readings.This is indeed not the case, in view of the ongo-ing debat about how many and which readings topostulate.
Instead, ipf is best considered as aninstance of ?sense-generality?
(Atlas 1989), i.e.
ashaving a definite, but highly general meaningthat is specified in the course of interpretation bymeans of context and pragmatic inference.Sense-generality and pragmatic inference consti-tute the semantic and pragmatic side of utteranceinterpretation: ?[?]
Grice?s pragmatics withoutsense-generality is blind, and sense-generalitywithout Grice?s pragmatics is empty?
(Atlas,1989: 149).Accordingly, this paper aims at explaining thederivation of ipf readings by a more pragmati-cally oriented account, based on a ?selectionaltheory?
of aspect (Bickel, 1996).3.1 SemanticsAs regards semantics, aspect is assumed to con-tribute to the finite part of an utterance in select-ing a certain part of the descriptive content of theverb and relating it to the time an assertion ismade about, the topic time TT (Klein, 1995).
Therelation thus obtained constitutes the aspectualvalue.
The decisive units for this selection arephases and boundaries (Bickel, 1996).
Presuminga tripartite event structure (Moens and Steedman,1988) consisting of a preparation phase (dynamicphase ?dyn), a culmination point (boundary ?)
anda consequent state (static phase ?stat), there arethree possibilities for aspect to select.
Englishand Turkish both have ?dyn-selecting aspectualmarkers, Turkish also a marker for explicit ?stat-selection; Russian pf aspect explicitly selects ?.The unmarked members of the aspectual opposi-tions may assert anything else ?
Russian ipf as-pect may assert anything but the explicitselection of a boundary.As truth-evaluation and assertion have to bekept apart, the selected and asserted parts have tobe related an interval of time, the validation in-terval, where they are asserted to hold and truth-conditionally evaluated.
Padu?eva (1996) refersto this interval with the notion of to?ka ots?eta(henceforth TO), an aspectual reference interval,which can be retrospective or synchronous(bounded or unbouded) with respect to the as-serted part.
TO is decisive for constraining therange of possible interpretations of ipf as it clas-sifies the readings into three groups.
In mostcases TO is lexically given, predominantly byadverbials, and therefore constitutes an essentialcontextual feature for the derivation of the rele-vant reading.
Table 1 shows the classification ofipf readings according to TO2.
The ?relation?constitutes the aspectual value:TO Relation Reading of the ipfI.
synchronous, boundedTT included in?dyn actual-processualII.
synchronous, non-boundedTT simultane-ous with(?dyn ?
?stat)habitual, inactual,potential, permanent,atemporalIII.
retrospective TT includes  (?dyn ?
?stat)general-factual, dura-tiveTable 1.
A classification of ipf readingsWhat has been said so far provides the seman-tic skeleton that has to be accompanied andfleshed out by pragmatic reasoning.
Note, thatpragmatics does not apply ?after?
semantics, butrather interleaves with it.3.2 PragmaticsAs already mentioned before, the principles as-sumed to guide the pragmatic inferencing are theheuristics proposed by Levinson (2000), whichare assumed to apply also at the subpropositionallevel giving rise to ?explicatures?
(Carston, 2002)that enrich and constrain underspecified lexicalrepresentations to yield full-fledged propositions.Q-inferences are involved in deriving themeaning of unmarked forms by giving rise toscalar implicatures from the scale <pf, ipf>,meaning that if the speaker uses the weaker ele-ment of the scale (ipf) the hearer is entiteled toinfer the invalidity of the stronger expression(pf): Using the pf aspect explicitly marks the se-lection of a boundary, using the ipf does not ex-clude that selection and thus gives rise to the2 That it is indeed reasonable to distinguish these three groups is supported bya look at Turkish which has morphological means to express the respectiverelation (cf.
Sonnenhauser, 2003).three possible values stated above in table 1.
Thispragmatically derived meaning of ipf is capturedby the metavariable ?IPF?, that comprises thepossibilities for ipf listed in table 1.
By contex-tual, discourse pragmatic or general pragmaticprinciples (which fix TO), this metavariable getsdisambiguated as to what kind of relation it ex-presses.
As one TO allows for several readings(cf.
2a-c), the relation obtained by the disam-biguation is sense-general and needs further en-richment to yield the contextually relevantreading.
This process is an instance of the draw-ing of  I-inferences referring to a certain concept.Encyclopaedic knowledge makes certainassumptions more likely than others, and if theseassumptions lead to a relevant interpretation, allother lines of interpretation are dismissed.
Oftenencountered concepts are more likely to get ac-cessed, as they require less effort in getting acti-vated.2a.
Moj otec govoril po-turecki.my father speak:PAST:ipf Turkish?My father could speak Turkish.?2b.
Perevod?ik govoril  po-turecki.translator speak:PAST:ipf Turkish?The translator was speaking Turkish.
?As the potential reading (2a) is not relevantwith (2b) ?
translators are supposed to be able tospeak a certain language ?, other interpretationsare looked for, here the actual-processual.2c.
Perevod?ik govoril i po-turecki.translator speak:PAST:ipf also Turkish?The translator could also speak Turkish.
?The insertion of i (?also?)
in (2c), however,creates the appropriate context for the potentialreading to be relevant.The reasoning stops as soon as a relevant in-terpretation is achieved.Note that lexical content of the verb and as-pect strictly have to be kept apart; ipf requires acertain input and if a verb is only providing a ?
inits semantic representation, the required phasehas to be induced ?
again, by means of context orpragmatic reasoning.
This may result in an itera-tive reading, or in ?zooming in?
in the (inferred)preparation phase ?dyn, (cf.
3a-b; cf.
also 9a-bbelow):3a.
Ivan vyigral gonku.Ivan win:PAST:pf race:ACC?Ivan won the race.
?The pf is applied to a verb vyigrat?(?win?)
thatprovides a boundary in its semantic representa-tion and therefore no interpretational rearrange-ments are necessary.b.
Ivan vyigryval gonku (?etyre raza).Ivan win: PAST:ipf race:ACC four times.
?Ivan won the race four times / was winningthe race.
?The application of the ipf in (3b) requires a?dyn; the verb does not provide one, thus it has tobe induced by iteration, or by inferring and?zooming in?
on it, e.g.
in a context fixing a cer-tain moment within?dyn, e.g.
a when-clause.This coercion process is to be located at thetransition from 1 to 2 (figure 2) and may be cap-tured in terms of M-inferences: marked expre-ssions warn ?marked situation?.
Again, we aredealing with an interaction of implicature andexplicature: ?Marked situation?
is the implica-ture, that gives rise to the explicatures that ex-plain the markedness3 of the situation in derivinga relevant reading, i.e.
steps 2 and 3 are carriedout as in the non-coercion case.
Note further thatthis reasoning process is not carried out step bystep, but in parallel adjustment, which may bemodelled within a game-theoretic framwork or3 lly unmarked.
The notion oform notions of morphologicaland semantic markedness.Note, that the ipf aspect remains semanticapragmatic markedness has to be distinguished fMetavariableIPF?dyn ]?dyn ?
?stat[ [?dyn ?
?stat]Iactual-processualIIhabitual,cotinuous,potential,permanent,atemporalIIIgeneral-factual,durativeQ-implicatureinference alonedisambiguationdecoding + infer-enceenrichmentdecoding + infe-rence1)2)3) subpropositional level:Explicaturepropositional level:Implicatureparallel adjustmentAMBIGUITYSENSE-GENERALITYSPECIFICITYFigure 2.
Pragmatic reasoning behind the derivation of ipf readingswithin bidirectional optimality theory.Q- and M-inferences differ crucially from I-inferences in that the latter arise from the inter-play of semantic representation with context,while Q- and M-inferences do not need any con-text for derivation, but are based on sets of alter-nates with essentially the same form andcontrastive semantic content in the case of Q-inferences, and with contrasting forms but essen-tially the same inherent semantic content in thecase of M-inferences.
That is, Q- and M-inferences can be drawn on the basis of what islexically given and on the sets of possible alter-nates.
They give rise to utterance-type meaningas they are based on general expectations on howlanguage is normally used (Levinson, 2000).This property is useful for NLP applications aswill be shown in section 4 below.
It is due to thisdifference, that Q-/M- and I-implicatures comeinto play at different levels of  meaning composi-tion, inference and interpretation.Figure 2 sketches the pragmatic processes in-volved in the derivation of the specific readings.What becomes obvious from figure 2 is the factthat there is one level at which ambiguity is to bepostulated and one level where we are dealingwith sense-generality: The three relations the IPFmeta-variable may give rise to are instances ofambiguity; the disambiguated relations, however,are still sense-general and have to be furtherspecified in the course of interpretation.
Oncedetected, the ambiguity is easy to handle, as inmost cases it gets disambiguated by lexicalmeans specifying TO.
The specification of thesense-generality involved is more difficult todeal with.3.3 InteractionWhat has been outlined so far suggests that amore pragmatically oriented analyses of closedclasses of morphems, aspect in the present case,yields interesting insights and resolves puzzlesthat arise from the apparently elusive and vari-able content of these expressions (Levinson,2000: 98).Much of the confusion within aspectology,and presumably within further grammatical cate-gories, arises due to a neglect of pragmatics andto definitions of aspect that take pragmatic infer-ences as part of its semantics (Bickel, 1996).
Thedivision of labour advocated in this paper keepsthe semantics of aspect rather simple, but has tobe supported by general pragmatic principles.Such an analysis is cross-linguistically applicableand facilitates systematic comparison of differentaspectual systems.
Furthermore, such a simplesemantics provides a suitable input for NLP ap-plications.The division of labour between semantics andpragmatics, i.e.
the relation between the inputprovided by the lexicon and the contribution ofpragmatic reasoning, varies from language tolanguage, but the semantics stated in the selec-tional theory, and the inferential heuristics them-selves remain stable across languages.4 Implications for NLPWithout a principled account of pragmatic, i.e.inferential, principles, applications in natural lan-guage processing will necessarily fail.
Thismeans, that the lexically given facts currentlybeing processed have to be combined with in-formation from former parse-states ?
as the in-terpretation is modelled as processingincrementally from left to right (Kempson et al,2001) ?, with general heuristics of pragmatic rea-soning and with access to conceptual knowledge.To make the findings so fare suitable for NLP,the decisive input factors have to be stated aswell as the principles of their interaction.
Con-trary to human interpretation of underspecifiedforms, where meaning is constructed predomi-nantly by abductive reasoning, in computerdriven interpretation meanings have to be se-lected from an a priori established list of possi-bilities (cf.
Sonnenhauser, 2004).
For ipf thismeans that a list of readings has to be compiled(see table 1), the factors involved their derivationhave to be fixed and rules of interaction have tobe stated that can be expressed in the deductive,propositional logic form A ?
B (cf.
Vazov andLapalme, 2000), where A is the premise, i.e.
itstates the conditions for the rules to apply, and Bthe conclusion, i.e.
the derived reading.4.1 The inputInput factors for algorithms are the following:Verbs indexed for the ?
and ?
they contain4; lexi-cal items indexed for whether they add ?
or ?,and aspectual selectors indexed for what theyselect and for their status within the languagespecific semantic markedness relation.
That ishow Q-inferences are drawn.
TO constrains thepossible interpretations of the unmarked aspec-4 Languages differ as to whether this lexical specification already gives rise to?default aspect?
(Bohnemeyer and Swift, 2001) as in Russian, or not, as inTurkish.tual partner in disambiguating IPF.
As it is inmost cases lexically given, adverbials are to beannotated as to what kind of TO they fix.To capture M-inferences, the default combina-tions of base and selector have to be stated, aswell as rules for resolving possibly occurringmismatches.
The M-inferences then can bepinned down by coercion operators (Pulman,1997; Thomas and Pulman, 1999).
As pointedout above, the metalinguistic Q- and M-inferences can be handeled purley on the basis ofthe lexically given input and on the basis of thepossible alternatives that have to be stated aswell.The presumably most difficult problem is howto specify verbs for the conceptual knowledgethey provide access to, which is indespensablefor I-inference to be drawn.
One means is corpusanalysis in order to detect regularities andcoocurrences of lexical items that might hint to aconceptual connection5.
As the factor ?probabil-ity?
cannot be completely eliminated, a conditionhas to be implemented preferring the shortest lineof reasoning (Thomas and Pulman, 1999).Furthermore, a mechanism must be imple-mented that parallels the stop mechanism in hu-man interpretation, i.e.
a mechanism that stopsthe search for information to be built in in theinterpretation process.
The reasoning stops assoon a truth-conditional interpretation isachieved, i.e.
as soon as the requirement for thatpropositional content is achieved.
It is this re-quirement that crucially drives the interpretationprocess (cf.
the requirement ??Ty(t)?
in the Dy-namic Syntax approach as advocated byKempson et al, 2001).Interpretation of aspectual forms processes in-crementally, i.e.
information once provided andprocessed cannot be undone.4.2 The ?default?
caseThe default case is a match of basis and marker6,where the verbal basis provides the necessaryinput for the marker to apply.
For ipf, the condi-tions have to be stated under which the three pos-sibilites (figure 1) get activated.
Here, TO ?primarily specified by temporal or manner ad-verbials (e.g.
vse bol?
?e ?more and more?,choro?o ?well?)
?
is decisive.
Adverbials of car-5 Assuming an associative organization of memory, where related things areprobabilistically associated reflecting generalizations about regularities in anorganism?s perception of and interaction with its environment (Robinson,1997), this statistical approach indeed seems to be on the right track.6 ?Marker?
is the general term that subsumes also cases of default aspect,where there is no overt morphological marking, as frequently encountered inRussian.dinality and duration fix TO as retrospective andthe reading as being out of group III.
The rule forthis line of interpretation can be stated as follows(adopted from Vazov and Lapalme, 2000):4.
IF ipf is applied to a verb providing a phaseAND if there is an adverbial fixing TO asretrospectiveTHEN the reading is out of group III.5a.
general-factual readingJa u?e rasskazyval  vam ?tu istoriju.I already tell:PAST:ipf  you:DAT this story:ACC?I already told you this story.?5b.
durative readingJa guljala ot trech to pjati.I go-for-a-walk:PAST:ipf from three:Gen to five:Gen?From three to five, I went for a walk.
?Both interpretations can be overridden if TO isturned into a synchronous one by adverbials ofthe type vsegda (?always?)
or oby?no (?usually?):6a.
habitual readingJa oby?no guljala ot trech to pjati.I usually go-for-walk:PAST:ipf from three to five?I usually went for a walk from three tofive.
?This shows the incremental way of interpreta-tion, whereby the inner parts are left intact:6b.
[syn.unboundedoby?no [retroot...do[syn.bounded gujal]]]The outermost TO is the one relevant for dis-course advancement or non-advancement, re-spectively.A synchronous TO may be bounded or un-bounded (group I and II, table 1), cf.
(7) and (8):7.
IF ipf is applied to a verb providing a phaseAND if there is an adverbial fixing TO assynchronous bounded/unboundedTHEN the reading is out of group I/II8a.
actual-processual readingV vosem?
?asov, ja ?itala knigu.at eight o?clock, I read:Past:ipf book:Acc?At eight o?clock, I was reading a book.?8b.
inactual readingRan?
?e, on rabotal v universitete.before  he work:PAST:ipf  at university?He used to work at university.?
(= ?He wasworking as a teacher.?
)Depending on the semantic representation ofthe verb, implicatures or presuppositions mayarise.
Ipf with the structure [?
?]
leaves thereaching of the boundary as an implicature, ipfwith [?
?]
leaves the initial boundary as presup-position.
That is how the semantic representa-tions of verbs provide background and frame forpragmatic reasoning.4.3 The ?coercion?
caseWhenever an aspectual marker is applied on abasis not providing the relevant feature (?
or ?
)for it to apply, that feature is semantically orpragmatically induced in order to eliminate thatmismatch.
Coercion operators capture this re-categorization process (Pulman, 1997):9a.
Ivan vyigral gonku.Ivan win:PAST:pf race:ACC?Ivan won the race.
?Here, pf is applied to a verb that provides a ?
;no coercion is necessary.9b.
Ivan vyigryval gonku (?etyre raza).Ivan win: PAST:ipf race:ACC (four times).
?Ivan won the race four times / was winningthe race.
?The application of ipf in (9b) requires a ?,which the verb vyigrat?
(?win?)
does not provide.So it has to be induced by iteration or by zoom-ing in on ?dyn.
Two  coercion operators may beapplied: ?iterate / stretch: point ?
process?
(Pulman, 1997).
In most cases, context providesthe necessary cues for disambiguation (e.g.
aniterative adverbials or a when-clause), if not, onehas to rely on the ?probability-condition?.9c.
V vosem ?asov ona u?e vy?la.at eight o?clock she already leave:PAST:pf?At eight o?clock, she had already left.?
(= she was gone)For the consequent-state reading in (9c) toarise, the prefix vy- first has to induce the bound-ary required for pf to apply.
U?e (?already?)
heretriggers the application of the coercion operator?add-cstate: X ?
<X, state>, where X is point orprocess?
(Pulman 1997).
The rules for (9b) are:10a.
IF ipf is applied to a verb providing nophase, AND a lexical item indicating itera-tion is presentTHEN induce the phase by application of?ite-rate?10b.
IF ipf is applied to a verb providing no phaseAND and adverbial/clause indicating inci-dence is presentTHEN induce the phase by application of?stretch?The application of ipf onto a verbal basis pro-viding merely a ?
(prior to coercion) is both prag-matically and morphologically marked, but ipfdoes not lose its semantic unmarkedness.
Thoughinterpretation in terms of coercion is composi-tional, the specific reading this coercion givesgives rise to depends on linguistic context andworld-knowledge (de Swart, 1998); cf.
(11)7:11.
On re?al zada?u.he solve:PAST:ipf exercise:ACC11a.
actual-processual reading?He was solving the exercise.?11b.
conative reading?He tried to solve the exercise.?11c.
general-factual reading?He (*solved)8 the exercise.
?Whereas (11c) can be disambiguated by fixingTO as retrospective, (11a) and (11b) cannot bedistinguished by TO alone as both require it to besynchronous.
The distinction between the possi-ble readings is left to contextual disambiguationand world-knowledge.
Gaining probability val-ues and assigning them to interpretations by astatistical approach taking into account judge-ments of native speakers seems to be a possibleway (cf.
Glovinskaja, 1982 for the habitual, po-tential and actual-processual reading), but theprobability rankings can be overriden by the lexi-cal content of verbal phrases.5 Concluding remarksThe framework presented here allows for takingalso pragmatic reasoning processes into accountin computing interpretations.
Without a princi-pled account of inferential principles NLP appli-cations have to fail.
The rather sketchy picturepresented here might serve as a starting point foridentifying semantic and pragmatic factors in theaspecto-temporal system of Russian.
A lot ofproblems remain to be solved.
Corpus analysesand the appropriate annotation of verbs, aspectmarkers and adverbials are the prerequisite forformulating rules that enable the systematic deri-vation and computation of the readings.
Further-more, the interaction of the different factors hasto be studied in a wider domain, i.e.
on the para-graph level.The selection-theoretic and pragmatic assump-tions outlined in this paper can be claimed to becross-linguistically valid, but languages differ intheir respective contribution of semantics andgeneral pragmatic reasonig.This approach, that combines generality of lin-guistic expressions with systematic pragmaticprinciples, can be extended to further instancesof grammatical underspecification.
The systemestablished in this paper allows for a systematic7 The readings listed here involve different degrees of context-dependency.8 Note that this general-factual reading arises only in special contexts, and inthe present example is difficult to translate into English.comparison of languages on a uniform basis thatpermits a systematic derivation of the respectivereadings and a principled account account of thedifferences.ReferencesJay Atlas.
1989.
Philosophy without Ambiguity.
Ox-ford, Clarendon PressBalthasar Bickel.
1996.
Aspect, Mood and Time inBelhare.
Z?rich, ASASJ?rgen Bohnemeyer and Mary Swift.
2001.
DefaultAspect: The Semantic Interaction of AspectualViewpoint and Telicity.
Talk delivered at the con-ference ?Perspectives on Aspect?.
UtrechtRobyn Carston.
2002.
Thoughts and Utterances.
Ox-ford, BlackwellGerd Gigerenzer et al 1999.
Simple Heuristics ThatMake Us Smart.
Oxford, Oxford University PressMarija J. Glovinskaja.
1982.
Semanti?eskije Tipy Vi-dovych Protivopostavlenija Russkogo Glagola.Moskva, NaukaPaul Grice.
1989.
Studies in the Way of Words.
Cam-bridge, Harvard University PressRuth Kempson et al 2001.
Dynamic Syntax.
Oxford,BlackwellWolfgang Klein.
1995.
A Time-Relational Analysis ofRussian Aspect.
Language 71(4):669-695Stephen C. Levinson.
2000.
Presumptive Meanings.Cambridge, London, MIT PressMarc Moens and Mark Steedman.
1988.
TemporalOntology and Temporal Reference.
ComputationalLinguistics 14(2):29-43Elena V. Padu?eva.
1996.
Semanti?eskije Issledovani-ja.
Moskva, Jazyki Russkoj Kul?turyDenise Perrett.
2000.
The Dynamics of Tense Con-strual in Haddiyya.
Ph.D. dissertation, Universityof LondonStephen Pulman.
1997.
Aspectual Shift as Type Coer-cion.
Transactions of the Philological Society95(2):279-317Edward A. Robinson.
1997.
The Cognitive Founda-tions of Pragmatic Principles: Implications forTheories of Linguistic and Cognitive Representa-tion.
Jan Nuyts and Eric Pederson.
Language andConceptualization.
Cambridge, Cambridge Univer-sity Press: 253-271Barbara Sonnenhauser.
2004.
Rules for the Derivationof Aspectual Readings in Russian.
Ms. Universityof LeipzigBarbara Sonnenhauser.
2003.
Aspect and the Seman-tics-Pragmatics Interface.
Proceedings of RANLP03.
BorovetsHenriette de Swart.
1998.
Aspect Shift and Type Co-ercion.
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory16(2):347-385James Thomas and Stephen Pulman.
1999.
Bidirec-tional Interpretation of Tense and Aspect.
In: HarryBunt et al (eds).
1999.
Proceedings of the 3rd In-ternational Workshop on Computational Seman-tics.
Tilburg: 247-263Nikolai Vazov and Guy Lapalme.
2000.
Are the Tem-poral Strucures of Texts Algorithms?
Proceedingsof the 7th International Conference on Principles ofKnowledge Representation and Reasoning.Breckendridge: 76-86
