Discourse-Level Annotationfor Investigating Information StructureIvana Kruijff-Korbayova?
and Geert-Jan M. KruijffComputational Linguistics, Saarland University, Saarbru?cken, Germany{korbay,gj}@coli.uni-sb.deAbstractWe present discourse-level annotation of newspa-per texts in German and English, as part of anongoing project aimed at investigating informationstructure from a cross-linguistic perspective.
Ratherthan annotating some specific notion of informationstructure, we propose a theory-neutral annotationof basic features at the levels of syntax, prosodyand discourse, using treebank data as a startingpoint.
Our discourse-level annotation scheme cov-ers properties of discourse referents (e.g., semanticsort, delimitation, quantification, familiarity status)and anaphoric links (coreference and bridging).
Weillustrate what investigations this data serves anddiscuss some integration issues involved in combin-ing different levels of stand-off annotations, createdby using different tools.1 IntroductionThe goal of this paper is to present a discourse-level annotation scheme developed for the pur-pose of investigating information distribution intext from a cross-linguistic perspective, with aparticular focus on the interplay of various fac-tors pertaining to the realization of informationstructure.
Information Structure (IS) concernsutterance-internal structural and semantic proper-ties reflecting the speaker?s/writer?s communica-tive intentions and the relation of the utteranceto the discourse context, in terms of the dis-course status of the content, the actual and at-tributed attentional states of the discourse partici-pants, and the participants?
prior and changing atti-tudes (knowledge, beliefs, intentions, expectations,etc.)
(Kruijff-Korbayova?
and Steedman, 2003).
Inmany (if not all) languages, differences in IS moti-vate variations in surface realization of utterances,such as syntactic structure, word order and intona-tion.
But languages differ in the extent to whichthey employ various combinations of IS-realizationmeans (Vallduv??
and Engdahl, 1996; Kruijff, 2001).Modeling these phenomena and their interaction re-quires understanding IS and its role in discourse.IS is therefore an important aspect of meaning atthe interface between utterance and discourse, whichcomputational models of discourse processing shouldtake into account.
Unfortunately, there exists notheory that provides a comprehensive picture of IS,explaining its realization cross-linguistically, its rep-resentation at the level of linguistic meaning, and itsinterpretation in context.
Employing corpora canhelp to deepen our intuitive understanding of IS, inorder to construct explanatorily more adequate the-ories.While the phenomena involved in discourse andIS are themselves complex and not yet fully un-derstood, studying and modeling their interactionis made difficult by proliferating and often under-formalized terminologies, especially for IS (cf.
thediverging dichotomies, e.g., Theme-Rheme, Topic-Comment, Topic-Focus, Background-Focus, Given-New, Contextually Bound-Nonbound).
What isneeded is further systematization of terminologies,formalization and computational modeling, and em-pirical and corpus-based studies.The goal of the MULI (MUltilingual Informa-tion structure) project is to contribute to this effortby empirically analyzing IS in German and Englishnewspaper texts.
For this, we designed annotationschemes for enriching existing linguistically inter-preted language resources with information at thelevels of syntax, discourse semantics and prosody.The MULI corpus consists of extractsfrom the Tiger treebank for German(Brants et al, to appear)1 and the Penn treebankfor English (Marcus et al, 1994)2.
It comprises250 sentences in German (app.
3,500 tokens) and320 sentences in English (app.
7,000 tokens).
TheMULI corpus has been created by extracting acontinuous stretch of 21 relatively short texts fromthe Tiger treebank, and a set of 10 texts from thePenn Treebank.
The selection was made so thatthe texts would be comparable in genre (financialnews/announcements).The morphological, part-of-speech and syntacticinformation encoded in the treebanks can be re-used for our purposes.
We add annotations ofsyntactically marked constructions, prosodic fea-tures and discourse semantics.
Our approachto annotation at the levels of syntax, prosodyand discourse is outlined in (Bauman et al, 2004a;Bauman et al, 2004b).
In this paper, we provide1http://www.coli.uni-sb.de/cl/projects/tiger/2http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~treebank/home.htmlmore details about the discourse-level annotation.In ?2 we overview the methodological concernsand desiderata we adhere to in designing our anno-tation schemes.
In ?3 we present the discourse-levelannotation scheme in detail.
In ?4 we illustrate themulti-level investigation perspective.
?5 we brieflydescribe the annotation tools we use.
In ?6 we con-clude and sketch future work.2 MethodologyText samples of varying origin, genre, language andsize have been previously annotated with theory-specific notions of IS by various authors.
Such dataare typically not publicly available, and even if theycan be obtained, it is very hard if not impossibleto compare and reuse different annotations.
Morepromising in this respect are annotations that in-clude or add some aspect(s) of IS to an existingcorpus or treebank.
The most systematic effort ofthis kind that we are familiar with is the Topic-Focus annotation in the Prague Dependency Tree-bank (Bura?n?ova?
et al, 2000).In contrast to other projects in which IS isannotated and investigated, we do not annotatetheory-biased abstract categories like Topic-Focusor Theme-Rheme.
Since we are particularly inter-ested in the correlations and co-occurrences of fea-tures on different linguistic levels that can be inter-preted as indicators of the abstract IS categories,we needed an annotation scheme to be as theory-neutral as possible: It should allow for a descrip-tion of the phenomena, from which ?any?
theory-specific explanatory mechanisms can subsequentlybe derived (Skut et al, 1997).
We therefore con-centrate instead on features pertaining, on the onehand, to the surface realization of linguistic expres-sions (the levels of syntax and prosody), and, onthe other hand, to the semantic character of the dis-course referents (the discourse level).In designing our annotation schemes, we fol-lowed the guidelines of the Text Encoding Ini-tiative3 and the Discourse Resource Initiative(Carletta et al, 1997).
In line with these standards,we define for each annotation level (i) the markableexpressions, (ii) the attributes of markables, and (iii)the links between markables (if any).Syntax The Tiger treebank and the Penn tree-bank we use as the starting point already con-tain syntactic information.
The additional syntac-tic features annotated in the MULI project per-tain to clauses as markable units, and encode thepresence of structures with noncanonical word orderthat typically serve to put the focus on certain syn-tactic elements.
We include cleft, pseudo-cleft, re-versed pseudo-cleft, extraposition, fronting and ex-pletives, as well as voice distinctions (active, medio-passive and passive).
We annotate these featuresexplicitly (when not already present in the tree-3http://www.tei-c.org/bank annotation), to be able to correlate them di-rectly with features at other levels.
The annotationscheme draws on accounts of the analysed features in(Eisenberg, 1994) and (Weinrich, 1993) for Germanand in (Quirk et al, 1985) and (Biber et al, 1999)for English.Prosody For the prosodic annotation, werecorded one German and one English nativespeaker reading aloud the texts of the MULIcorpus.4,5 The recordings were digitised andannotated using the EMU Speech DatabaseSystem ((Cassidy and Harrington, 2001b);http://emu.sourceforge.net/).The markables at the prosody level are into-nation phrases, intermediate phrases and words.Their attributes encode the position and strengthof phrase breaks, and the position and type ofpitch accents and boundary tones, following theconventions of ToBI (Tones and Break Indices(Beckmann and Hirschberg, 1994)) for English andGToBI6 (Grice et al, in press) for German, whichare regarded as standards for describing the into-nation of these languages within the framework ofautosegmental-metrical phonology.Discourse At the discourse level, we define asmarkable those linguistic expressions that introduceor access discourse entities (i.e., discourse referentsin the sense used in DRT and alike) (Webber, 1983;Kamp and Reyle, 1993).
Currently we considerprimarily the discourse entities introduced by?nominal-like?
expressions (Passoneau, 1996).
Weinclude other kinds of expressions as markable onlywhen they participate in an anaphoric relationwith a ?nominal-like?
expression.
For example, asentence is a markable when it serves as an an-tecedent of a discourse-deictic anaphoric expres-sion (Webber, 1991); the main verb of a sentenceis a markable when the subject of the sentenceis a ?zero-anaphor?, etc.
Our annotation instruc-tions for identifying markables are an amalgamationand extension of those of the MUC-7 CoreferenceTask Definition7, the DRAMA annotation manual(Passoneau, 1996), and (Wind, 2002).The attributes of markables in our discourse-level annotation scheme are designed to capturea range of properties that semantically character-ize the discourse entities evoked by linguistic ex-4We are aware that using recorded speech is not ideal.
Wenevertheless decided for this approach, as we wanted to workon top of existing treebanks.
As far as we are aware, theredoes not exist a treebank for any of the publicly availablespeech corpora.5Since prosodic annotation is very time-consuming, we hadto concentrate mainly on one language.
Thus, we analysedall German texts and restricted ourselves to some Englishexamples.
Since individual speaking preferences may varyfrom speaker to speaker, we will have to record additionalspeakers in order to be able to come up with generalizableresults.6http://www.coli.uni-sb.de/phonetik/projects/Tobi/gtobi.html7http://www.itl.nist.gov/iaui/894.02/related_projects/muc/proceedings/co_task.htmlpressions.
Thereby we differ from most existingdiscourse-level annotation efforts, which concentrateon the linguistic expressions and on identifyinganaphoric relations between them (i.e., identifyinganaphors and their antecedents).
A notable ex-ception is the GNOME project annotation scheme(Poesio et al, 1999): In GNOME, the aim was toannotate a corpus with information relevant for nounphrase generation.
This included syntactic, seman-tic and discourse attributes of nominal expressions.The semantic attributes include, among others, an-imacy, ontological status, countability, quantifica-tion and generic vs. specific reference, which reflectsimilar distinctions as we make in our annotationscheme.Besides the semantic properties that characterizediscourse entities individually, our annotationscheme of course also covers referential rela-tions between discourse entities, including bothidentity and bridging.
We build on and ex-tend the MUC-7 coreference specification andthe coreference/bridging classifications describedin (Passoneau, 1996), (Carletta et al, 1997),(Poesio, 2000) and (Mu?ller and Strube, 2001).
Werepresent anaphoric relations between linguistic ex-pressions through links between the correspondingmarkables.
The type of relation is annotated asan attribute of the markable corresponding to theanaphor.3 Discourse-Level AnnotationInformation structure theories describe the phenom-ena at hand at a surface level, at a semantic level,or at both levels simultaneously, i.e., an expres-sion belongs to some IS partition, in virtue of someinformation-status of the corresponding discourseentity.
For the investigation of IS at the (discourse)semantic level, we thus need more information aboutthe character of the discourse entities introduced bylinguistic expressions.
We therefore annotated ex-pressions with their discourse referents and their fol-lowing properties:Semantic type/sort reflects ontological charac-ter of a discourse entity: object, property, even-tuality or textual entity.
Since the primary fo-cus of our current annotation are discourse enti-ties evoked by nominal-like expressions, most ofthem denote objects.
Objects are further classi-fied according to semantic sorts: human/person, of-fice/profession, organization, animal, plant, physicalobject, quantity/amount, date/time, location/place,group/collection, abstract entity, other.
Proper-ties are classified into either temporal or perma-nent.
Eventuality has sub-classes phase (habitor state) and process (activity, accomplishment,achievement).
Textual entities are for now not fur-ther classified.Denotation characteristics of a discourse en-tity are captured by a combination of attributes,inspired by (Hlavsa, 1975).
First, we distinguishbetween denotational (extensional, referential) andnon-denotational (intensional, attributive) uses oflinguistic expressions.
Denotationally used expres-sions pick out (specify) some instance(s) of the des-ignated concept(s).
The instance(s) can be uniquelyspecified (=identifiable to the hearer), or specificbut not identifiable, or even unspecific (arbitrary,generic ?
so any instance will do).
Generic refer-ences are seen as denoting types.
An expression isused non-denotationally when it attribute or qual-ifies, i.e., evokes the characteristic properties of aconcept, without actually instantiating it.
A typicalexample of a non-denotationally used expression isa predicative NP, as in ?He was a painter?.The annotation of a group of denotation proper-ties is motivated by the need to have a language-independent characterization of the referents assuch, rather then the properties of the referring ex-pression, such as (in)definiteness.
The latter is asurface reflex of a combination of denotation char-acteristics, and sometimes may not even be overtlyindicated by articles or other determiners.For the denotationally used expressions, we thenanalyze what part of the domain designated bythe expression is actualy included in the extension.These aspects are annotated in the determination,delimitation and quantification attributes.Determination characterizes the specificity ofthe denoted concept instance.
Unique determina-tion means that the entity is uniquely specified, i.e.,the hearer can (or is assumed to be able to) iden-tify the entity/instance intended by the speaker.There may be just one such entity, e.g., as withproper names, or there are possibly more entitiesthat satisfy the description, but the speaker meansa particular one and assumes that the hearer canidentify it.
Anaphoric pronouns are also typicallyused as unique denotators.
Finally, an entity canbe uniquely specified through a relation to anotherentity, or through a relation between expressions inthe text.
In (Hlavsa, 1975) this is called relationaluniqueness ; it seems to correspond to Loebner?s no-tion of NPs as functions, used in the GNOME an-notation scheme.Existential determination is assigned to entitiesthat are not uniquely specified, that is, the speakerdoes not assume the hearer to be able to identify aparticular entity, but in principle the speaker wouldbe able to identify one.
Maybe such unique identifi-cation by the hearer is not important for the inter-action, it is enough to take ?some instance?.Variable determination is assigned when an ex-pression not only does not uniquely specify an en-tity, but a particular entity cannot in principle beidentified, rather, the speaker means an arbitrary(?any?)
instance.
Typical examples are generics, orreferences to type.Delimitation characterizes the extent of the de-noted concept instance with respect to the domaindesignated by the expression.
The posible values aretotal and partial, indicating the entire domain desig-nated by the expression is included in the extension,or only a part.Quantification captures the countability of thedenotated concept instance, and if countable, thequantity of the individual objects included in theextension: uncountable is assigned when it is impossibleto decompose the extension into countable dis-tinguishable individual objects, e.g., with massnouns; specific-single means quantity of one, e.g., ?onex?, ?the other x?
; specific-multiple means a concrete quantitylarger than one, e.g., ?two x?, ?both x?, ?adozen?
; unspecific-multiple means an unspecified num-ber larger than one, e.g., ?some x?, ?many x?,?most x?.Familiarity Status is a notion that most ap-proaches to IS use as one dimension or levelof the IS-partitioning, for example Given/Newin (Halliday, 1985), Background/Focus in(Steedman, 2000), or as the basis for derivinga higher level of partitioning (Sgall et al, 1986).It is therefore important to capture it in our anno-tation as an independent feature, so that we can cor-relate it with other features at the discourse level andat other levels.
We apply the familiarity status tax-onomy from (Prince, 1981), distinguishing betweennew, unused, inferrable, textually and situationallyevoked entities.
We are aware that operationalizingPrince?s taxonomy is a tough issue.
For the time be-ing, our annotation guidelines give intuitive descrip-tions of the different statuses, roughly as follows: brand new : create a new discourse referent fora previously unknown object; unused : create a new discourse referent for aknown object; inferable: create a new discourse referent for aninferable object; evoked (textually or situationally): access anavailable discourse referent.Annotators?
uncertainty or discrepancies betweenannotators help us to identify problematic cases, andto revise the guidelines where necessary.8Linguistic form encodes the syntactic categoryof the markable expression.
This is not an attributeencoding a semantic property of a discourse entity.We have found it useful to distinguish the followingcategories:8Our reason for applying the familiarity taxonomy from(Prince, 1981) is that it addresses the status of discourse en-tities as such, not other referential properties.
For example,the givenness hierarchy in (Gundel et al, 1993) interleaves in-formation status with uniqueness and specificity. nominal group is a ?normal?
NP with a headnoun; pronominal subsumes expressions headed by apersonal, demonstrative, interrogative or rela-tive pronoun; possessive covers possessive premodifiers (typ-ically a possessive pronoun, e.g., ?our view?,or possessive adjective, e.g., ?the Treasury?sthreat?
or in German ?newyorker Burse?
; pronominal adverb in German, e.g.
?daraus?
(from that); apposition and coordination; clitic is used for clitics and in those cases whenan expression contains a clitic affix (thoughnot frequent in English and German newspapertext); ellipsis is used for elliptical (reduced) expres-sions, which function as nominal-like groups,but contain no nominal head (e.g., ?the first?
);in case a discourse entity is evoked by a zero ar-gument, e.g., in case of subject- or object pro-drop, a markable is created on a surrogate non-nominal expression, labeled as zero-arg; finally,clause or text are used for markables which areclause and simple sentences, or text segments,respectively (note that these are only mark-able, when they serve as antecedents to nominalanaphors).These categories classify the linguistic forms of ex-pressions independently of the categories employedin the syntactic-level annotation.
There are alsotechnical reasons for introducing a form-feature, e.g.,when some other expression serves as a markable toannotate the attributes of the discourse entity cor-responding to a ?zero-anaphor?
or to a clitic affix.Referential link encodes the type of relationbetween the discourse entity corresponding to ananaphoric expression, and the one corresponding tothe (most likely) antecedent.
The referential links wedistinguish are identity (representing coreference)and bridging, further classified into set-membership,set-containment, part-whole composition, property-attribution, generalized possession, causal link andlexical-argument-filling.The attributes of information status and referen-tial link are related, but we include them both, be-cause the former is a property of a discourse entity,while the latter directly reflects anaphoricity as aproperty of an expression (the size of it ranging, ul-timately, from a word to a segment of a discourse).The relation between anaphoricity and IS is not astraightforward one, and needs further investigation,enabled by an annotation like ours.4 Multi-level Investigation of ISWe illustrate the different levels of annotation andanalysis with an example sequence taken from ourEnglish corpus (Figure 1).
We considered the syn-tactic annotation as a suitable starting point for theanalysis.
Where relevant features are detected, wecompare the annotation at other levels.
(1) In the 1987 crash, remember, the marketwas shaken by a Danny Rostenkowski pro-posal to tax takeovers out of existence.
(2)Even more important, in our view, was theTreasury?s threat to thrash the dollar.
(3) TheTreasury is doing the same thing today; (4)thankfully, the dollar is not under 1987-stylepressure.Figure 1: Example from the English corpusOf the four clauses in the example sequence, threeshow noncanonical word orders.
In (1), the temporaladjunct is fronted, followed by the main predicateremember (in imperative mood).
Additionally, (1)contains a passive construction bringing the patientin subject position.
In (2), subject complement andadjunct (marking stance) are fronted.
In (4), anadjunct (againmarking stance) is fronted.The discourse entity (DE) introduced in thefronted temporal phrase the 1987 crash in (1) is ex-tensional, abstract, unique, specific singular, and hasthe information status of unused (also indicated byremember).
The DE introduced in the unmarkedsubject position is extensional, abstract, unique,specific singular, but has the status of inferrable:the market can be seen as a bridging anaphor to thecrash, by means of an argument filling (crash of themarket).
The DEs introduced by the sentence-finalexpressions in (1) and (2) are also extensional, ab-stract, unique, specific singular, and both have theinformation status of new.9 What appears sentence-final in (1) and (2) are thus two negative things thathappened during the 1987 crash.
The fronted ex-pression(s) in (2) are not annotated as a DE.
TheDEs in the unmarked subject positions in (3) and (4)both have the information status of textually evoked,as both expressions are coreferential anaphors toparts of the Treasury?s threat to thrash the dollar.While the DE referred to by the Treasury is an ex-tensional, office, unique, specific singular, that of thedollar is intensional, abstract, unique, uncountable.The expression the same thing in (3) is anaphoric tothe Treasury?s threat .
.
.
in (2), but it introducesa new DE of the same type; its information statusis that of inferrable.
Finally, the DE introduced inthe sentence-final expression 1987-style pressure in(4) is intensional, abstract, existential, uncountable,and also has the information status of inferable; itis however hard to code it as a bridging anaphor,because it is not clear what relation it would haveto what antecedent: if anything, then a Danny Ros-tenkowski proposal .
.
.
in (1).The prosodic analysis shows that the frontedphrase in (2) is not only syntactically but also9We assume a layman reader.
For an economy expert,these entities may have the status of unused.prosodically prominent (cf.
Figure 2): Two peak ac-cents on even and more highlight these words (withthe more pronounced accent on more expressing acontrast), whereas the word important is deaccented,since the concept of ?importance?
is inferable fromthe context.
Furthermore, the adjective construc-tion forms a phrase of its own, delimited by an in-tonation phrase boundary, which is in turn signalledby a falling-rising contour plus a short pause.
Thefollowing parenthesis in our view also constitutes asingle intonation phrase.
Here again, our is assigneda contrastive accent, while view is unaccented.All remaining content words of the clause re-ceive accents.
However, the most ?newsworthy?word, threat, is the only one marked by a ris-ing pitch accent (L+H*), indicating its higher de-gree of importance for the speaker.
This interpre-tation is further supported by the insertion of aphrase break directly after this word.
Finally, thehigh-downstepped nuclear accent (H+!H*) on dollarmarks this item as being accessible by speaker andhearer (Pierrehumbert and Hirschberg, 1990).5 Technical RealizationAbove we presented a multi-level view on IS anno-tation, where each layer is to be annotated indepen-dently, to enable us to investigate interactions acrossthe different levels.
Such investigations involve ei-ther exploration of the integrated data (i.e., simul-taneous viewing of the different levels and searchingacross levels) or integrated processing, e.g., in orderto discover or test correlations across levels.
Thereare two crucial technical requirements that must besatisfied to make this possible: (i) stand-off anno-tation at each level and (ii) alignment of base dataacross the levels.
Without the first, we would not beable to keep the levels separate and perform annota-tion at each level independently, without the latterwe would not be able to align the separate levels.We have chosen XML for the representation andmaintenance of annotations.
Each level of anno-tation is represented as a separate XML file, re-ferring to (sequences of) tokens in a common basefile containing the actual text data.
We keep inde-pendent levels of annotation separate, even if theycan in principle be merged into a single hierarchy.Parallel aligned texts (e.g., the written and spo-ken versions of our corpus) are also represented viashared token IDs.
A related issue is that of annota-tion tools.
We are not using one generic tool forall levels for the simple reason that we have notfound a tool that would support the needs of alllevels and still be efficient (Bauman et al, 2004b;Mu?ller and Strube, 2001).
Therefore, we prefer touse tools specifically designed for the task at hand.We describe the tools of our choice below.Prosodic Level The speech data was anno-tated with the EMU Speech Database System10(Cassidy and Harrington, 2001a), which produces10http://emu.sourceforge.net/Figure 2: Prosodic annotation of example sentence (2) in EMUseveral files in which time stamps are associated withthe respective annotated labels.Syntactic Level For the syntactic annotation, weused the XML editor XML-Spy11.
The annotationscheme is defined in a DTD, which is used to checkthe well-formedness and the validity of the annota-tion.Discourse Level The discourse-level annotationis done with the MMAX annotation tool developedat EML, Heidelberg (Mu?ller and Strube, 2003).MMAX is a light-weight tool written in Java thatruns under both Windows and Unix/Linux.
It sup-ports multilevel annotation of XML-encoded datausing annotation schemes defined as DTDs.
MMAXimplements the above-mentioned general concepts ofmarkables with attributes and standing in link rela-tions to one another.
To exploit and reuse annotateddata in the MMAX format, there is the MMAXXML Discourse API.Integration The tools inevitably employ differ-ent data formats: on the prosodic level data is storedin the EMU data format, on the syntactic level inTiger XML and on the discourse level in MMAXXML format.The EMU files have to be converted into stand-offXML format.
To be able to align the prosodic an-notation with the syntax and the discourse level, wechose the word as common basic unit.
This posesseveral problems.
First, punctuation marks countas separate words, but are not realised in spokenlanguage.
To be able to correlate prosodic phras-ing and punctuation marks, we store the punctua-tion marks as attributes of the respective precedingword.
Second, pauses occur very often in speech, butas they are not part of the written texts, they do notcount as words.
Because they are an important fea-ture for phrasing and rhythm, we also code themas attributes of the preceding word.
Third, in somecases a single word carries more than one accent, e.g.11http://www.xmlspy.com/long compounds (Getra?nkedosenhersteller), or num-bers.
In these cases, it would be interesting to knowwhich part(s) of the word get accented, which re-quires some way of annotating parts of words (e.g.,syllables).
Finally, for some multi-word units, e.g.18,50 Mark, the spoken realisation (achtzehn Markfu?nfzig) cannot be aligned with the orthographicform, because spoken and orthographic form differin number and order of words.6 Conclusions and PerspectivesWe presented the details of the discourse-level anno-tation scheme that we developed within the MULIproject.
This project is a pilot project: As such, theannotation has so far been restricted to a relativelysmall amount of data, since the experimental designof the study required testing of tools as well as man-ual annotation.
We plan to extend the size of thecorpus by manual and semi-automatic annotation ina follow-up project.The challenge in the MULI project has been todefine theory-neutral and language-independent an-notation schemes for annotating linguistic data withinformation that pertains to the realisation and in-terpretation of information structure.
An importantcharacteristic of the MULI corpus, arising from itstheory-neutrality, is that it is descriptive.
The cor-pus annotation is not based on explanatory mecha-nisms: We have to derive such explanations from thedata.
(See (Skut et al, 1997) for related methodol-ogy pertaining to syntactic treebanks.
)The MULI corpus facilitates linguistic investiga-tion of how phenomena at different annotation levelsinteract.
For example, how do syntactic structureand intonation interact to realize information struc-ture?
Or, how does information structure interactwith anaphoric relationships?
Such linguistic inves-tigations can help to extend existing accounts of in-formation structure, and can also be used to verify(or falsify) predictions made by such accounts.
Thecorpus also makes it possible to construct computa-tional models from the corpus data.Theory-neutrality enhances reusability of linguis-tic resources, because it facilitates the integrationwith other, theory-neutral resources.
To some ex-tent we have already explored this in MULI, com-bining e.g.
Tiger annotation with discourse-levelannotation.
Another possibility to explore is the tointegrate MULI annotation with, e.g., the SALSAcorpus (Erk et al, 2003), which provides more de-tailed semantico-pragmatic information in the styleof FrameNet.Our initial investigation also reveals where addi-tional annotation would be needed.
For instance,the text example discussed above constitutes a con-cession scheme, which we cannot identify withoutannotating discourse/rhetorical relations.
This inturn requires extending the annotation scheme tonon-nominal markables.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Saarland University for fund-ing the MULI pilot project.
Thanks also to StellaNeumann, Erich Steiner, Elke Teich, Stefan Bau-mann, Caren Brinckmann, Silvia Hansen-Schirraand Hans Uszkoreit for discussions.ReferencesS.
Bauman, C. Brinckmann, S. Hansen-Schirra, G.-J.Kruijff, I.
Kruijff-Korbayova?, S. Neumann, and E. Te-ich.
2004a.
Multi-dimensional annotation of linguis-tic corpora for investigating information structure.
InProc.
of the Workshop on Frontiers in Corpus Anno-tation, held at the NAACL-HLT 2004 Conference.S.
Bauman, C. Brinckmann, S. Hansen-Schirra, G.-J.Kruijff, I.
Kruijff-Korbayova?, S. Neumann, E. Te-ich, E. Steiner, and H. Uszkoreit.
2004b.
The muliproject: Annotation and analysis of information struc-ture in German and English.
In Proc.
of the LREC2004 Conference.M.
E. Beckmann and J. Hirschberg.
1994.
The ToBI an-notation conventions.
Ms. and accompanying speechmaterials, Ohio State University.D.
Biber, S. Johansson, G. Leech, S. Conrad, and E.Finegan.
1999.
The Longman Grammar of Spokenand Written English.
Longman, Harlow.S.
Bird and M. Liberman.
2001.
A formal framework forlinguistic annotation.
Speech Communication, 33(1-2):23?60.S.
Brants, S. Dipper, P. Eisenberg, S. Hansen, E. Ko?nig,W.
Lezius, C. Rohrer, G. Smith, and H. Uszkoreit.
toappear.
TIGER: Linguistic interpretation of a Ger-man corpus.
Journal of Language and Computation(JLAC), Special Issue.E.
Bura?n?ova?, E.
Hajic?ova?, and P. Sgall.
2000.
Tagging ofvery large corpora: Topic-focus articulation.
In Proc.of the 18th Conference on Computational Linguistics(COLING?2000), July 31 - August 4 2000, pages 139?144.
Universita?t des Saarlandes, Saarbru?cken, Ger-many.J.
Carletta, N. Dahlba?ck, N. Reithinger, and M. A.Walker.
1997.
Standards for dialogue coding in natu-ral language processing.
Report on the dagstuhl sem-inar, Discourse Resource Initiative, February 3?7.S.
Cassidy and J. Harrington.
2001a.
Multi-level anno-tation in the emu speech database management sys-tem.
Speech Communication, 33(1-2):61?78.S.
Cassidy and J. Harrington.
2001b.
Multi-level an-notation in the EMU speech database managementsystem.
Speech Communication, 33(1-2):61?78.P.
Eisenberg.
1994.
Grundriss der deutschen Gram-matik, 3.
Aufl.
Metzler, Stuttgart, Weimar.K.
Erk, A. Kowalski, S.
Pado?, and M. Pinkal.
2003.
To-wards a resource for lexical semantics: A large germancorpus with extensive semantic annotation.
In Proc.of ACL 2003, Sapporo, Japan.M.
Grice, S. Baumann, and R. Benzmu?ller.
in press.German intonation in autosegmental-metrical phonol-ogy.
In Sun-Ah Jun, editor, Prosodic Typology:Through Intonational Phonology and Transcription.OUP.J.
Gundel, N. Hedberg, and R. Zacharski.
1993.
Cog-nitive status and the form of referring expressions indiscourse.
Language, (69):274?307.M.
A.K.
Halliday.
1985.
Introduction to FunctionalGrammar.
Edward Arnold, London, U.K.Z.
Hlavsa.
1975.
Denotace objektu a jej??
prostr?edky vsouc?asne?
c?es?tine?
[Denotating of objects and its meansin contemporary Czech], volume 10 of Studie a pra?celingvisticke?
[Linguistic studies and works].
Academia.N.
Ide, P. Bonhomme, and L. Romary.
2000.
Xces: Anxml-based standard for linguistic corpora.
pages 825?830, Athens, Greece.H.
Kamp and U. Reyle.
1993.
From discourse to logic.Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht, the Nether-lands.Geert-Jan M. Kruijff 2001.
A Categorial-Modal LogicalArchitecture of Informativity: Dependency GrammarLogic & Information Structure, Faculty of Mathemat-ics and Physics, Charles University.
Prague, Czech Re-public.I.
Kruijff-Korbayova?
and M. Steedman.
2003.
Discourseand information structure.
Journal of Logic, Lan-guage and Information: Special Issue on Discourseand Information Structure, 12(3):249?259.M.
Marcus, G. Kim, M. Ann Marcinkiewicz, R. MacIn-tyre, A. Bies, M. Ferguson, K. Katz, and B. Schas-berger?
1994.
The Penn treebank: Annotating predi-cate argument structure.
In Proc.
of the Human Lan-guage Technology Workshop, San Francisco, MorganKaufmann.D.
McKelvie, A. Isard, A. Mengel, M.B.
Moller,M.
Grosse, and M. Klein.
2001.
The MATE work-bench ?
an annotation tool for XML coded speechcorpora.
Speech Communication, 33(1-2):97?112.C.
Mu?ller and M. Strube.
2001.
Annotating anaphoricand bridging relations with MMAX.
In Proc.
of the2nd SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue,pages 90?95, Aalborg, Denmark, 1?2 September.http://www.eml.villa-bosch.de/english/Research/NLP/sigdialC.
Mu?ller and M. Strube.
2003.
Multi-level an-notation in mmax.
In Proc.
of the 4th SIG-dial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue, Sap-poro, Japan, 4-5 July.
http://www.eml.villa-bosch.de/english/Research/NLP/Publications.R.
Passoneau.
1996.
Instructions for applying dis-course reference annotation for multiple applications(DRAMA).
draft, December 20.J.
Pierrehumbert and J. Hirschberg.
1990.
The meaningof intonational contours in the interpretation of dis-course.
In P.R.
Cohen, J. Morgan, and M.E.
Pollack,editors, Intentions in Communication, pages 271?311.MIT press.Massimo Poesio, Renate Henschel, Janet Hitzeman,Rodger Kibble, Shane Montague, and Kees vanDeemter 1999.
Towards An Annotation Scheme ForNoun Phrase Generation In Proc.
of the EACL Work-shop on Linguistically Interpreted Corpora.
Bergen,Norway.Massimo Poesio 2000.
The GNOME An-notation Scheme Manual Available onlinehttp://www.hcrc.ed.ac.uk/~gnome/anno manual.htmlE.
Prince.
1981.
Toward a taxonomy of given-new infor-mation.
In P. Cole, editor, Radical Pragmatics, pages223?256.
Academic Press.R.
Quirk, S. Greenbaum, G. Leech, and J. Svartik.
1985.A comprehensive grammar of the English language.Longman, London.P.
Sgall, E.
Hajic?ova?, and J. Panevova?.
1986.
The mean-ing of the sentence in its semantic and pragmatic as-pects.
Reidel, Dordrecht, The Netherlands.W.
Skut, B. Krenn, T. Brants, and H. Uszkoreit.
1997.An annotation scheme for free word order languages.In Applied Natural Language Processing 1997, pages88?95.M.
Steedman.
2000.
Information structure andthe syntax-phonology interface.
Linguistic Inquiry,31(4):649?689.E.
Teich, S. Hansen, and P. Fankhauser.
2001.
Repre-senting and querying multi-layer annotated corpora.pages 228?237, Philadelphia.E.
Vallduv??
and E. Engdahl.
1996.
The linguistic reali-sation of information packaging.
Linguistics, 34:459?519.B.
L. Webber.
1983.
So what can we talk about now?M.I.T.
Press.B.
L. Webber.
1991.
Structure and ostension in the in-terpretation of discourse deixis.
Language and Cogni-tive Processes, 6(2):107?135.H.
Weinrich.
1993.
Textgrammatik der deutschenSprache.
Dudenverlag, Mannheim u.a.L.
Wind.
2002.
Manual zur Annotation von anapho-rischen und Bridging-relationen.
European MediaLaboratory GmbH, August 9.
