Teaching Translation Tools over the WebAngelika ZerfassFreelance ConsultantHolzemer Str.
38Wachtberg, Germany, 53343azerfass@debitle.netAbstractThis is a description of an ongoing trainingeffort to teach the use of translation tools liketranslation memories or terminology databasesin live online seminars over the internet.1 IntroductionTranslation tools are very complex and usuallyrequire 1 to 2 days of training at the beginning.
Butmost users do not have the time or financial meansto go on a two-day training.
Now, with a (not so)new development in web technology, called virtualtraining, the knowledge transfer can take place ineasy sessions of 1 to 2 hours and each participantcan access this live training with a phone and aninternet connection.This presentation will show how the material fora tools training had to be adapted to the situation ofa live training on the internet and what the trainershould and should not do.
The presenter will sharepersonal experience on virtual training sessionswith the participants.2 The IdeaAs a trainer for translation tools, I usually holdone- or two-day training classes to teach theparticipants how to use translation memorysystems, alignment systems and terminologydatabases.
It is a mix of overview presentations,hands-on training - either trainer and participantsin parallel or participants on their own - andquestion and answer sessions on topics that ariseout of the use of the tools or specific issues theparticipants have had in the past.Many of my participants tell me that they finallydecided to a take training class, after having triedto get alng with the tools by themselves for quitesome time and finding that they cannot use thetools efficiently as they don't know how to use allthe features available.
Some had used the tools foryears and found during our class that there wouldhave been an easier way of doing things if they hadjust known it.Also, many would like to go to a training class,but either have no local dealer/training center thatoffers such a training or simply cannot afford to beaway from work for 2 or 3 days.
For freelancersespecially, the cost of training, travel and timeaway from work is sometimes prohibitive.3 The TechnologyThis was the starting point for me to explore,whether there was some kind of technology thatwould allow remote training classes for all thosewho could not participate in a regular training forwhatever reason.
Video conferencing was onepossibility, but the equipment for that was just tooexpensive, so I turned to the internet.
Tapingclasses was another idea, but here amount of timeand money that had to be spent on keeping thetapes up-to-date was too high.
And it lacked theinteractive component that is crucial to softwaretraining classes.I found a technology that is often called "virtualmeeting center" and that promised to offer all thethings I needed.
The ability to meet on the internetin real time independent of country or time, anaccompanying phone conference functionality andan "application sharing" feature that would allowme to show the software to be worked with.A virtual meeting basically is a website where allparticipants log into at the same time, passwordprotected of course.
They come to a meeting spacethat shows a window where the trainer can loaddocuments or presentations.
Also there are usuallya chat window for written conversation and a listof participants to one side of the screen.
Forcollaborative work there is a whiteboard featurethat lets all participants draw onto the same spacein the presentation window.To train software this way, the trainer can usethe "application sharing" feature.
Whicheverapplication he/she starts will be visible on thescreens of all participants (with a small delaydepending on the speed of the internetconnections).
It is also possible to have some of theparticipants show their screen to the rest of thegroup.The voice part of the meeting can be managedby a phone conference in parallel or by also usingthe internet with so-called "voice-over-IP", so thatno additional phone call is necessary.The usage of the platform is usually billed perminute per user.
Phone conferences are billedextra, voice-over-IP is included in the meetingminute price.There are now many platforms that offer virtualmeeting space.
To find the one that suits trainerand participants best, I tested several of them(please find a list of some meeting platforms at theend of this document).To be able to use this technology effectively, Ifound it useful for the trainer to use a headsetinstead of holding the phone receiver, to keep bothhands free for typing and navigating theapplications.
For voice-over-IP this is a mustanyway.
Participants may use a headset as well,but don't have to.3.1 CostsPrices vary from platform to platform.
Usuallythere is a fee per minute per participant plus anadditional fee, if the phone conference system willbe used as well.
But everybody can use their ownphone conference system, it is not mandatory tobook it with the meeting platform.
If regularsessions are planned, then there are also monthlyor yearly arrangements possible for the use of themeeting platform.
Per minute prices range between8 cents to 45 cents per user, depending on theprovider and the services used.4 The Training MaterialAs nobody can sit in front of a computer fullyconcentrated for a whole day, the training had to besplit up into several smaller sessions, so had to bethe training material.4.1 Preparing the Training MaterialIt was found that 1.5 to 2-hour sessions were themaximum that participants and trainer couldcomfortably sit through, so the training materialhad to be split up into modules of that length.
Also,the training needed to include some time forpresentation by the teacher as well as for hands-ontime for the participants.The modules were defined by a logical sequenceof functionalities that might be shown during onesession.
Each module was broken down intodetailed steps, as in the following example of twoTrados MultiTerm sessions.MultiTermTerminologydatabase basicsExport / Import?
Search methods?
Exact search?
Global search?
Fuzzy search?
Creating entries?
Manual?
With inputmodel?
By importing?
Creating adatabase?
Entry structure?
Databasedefinition?
Index fields?
Text fields?
Attribute fields?
...?
Export settings?
Default settings?
Creating anexport definition?
Printingdatabasecontents in Word?
As a table?
As a glossary?
As a dictionary?
...Table 1: Sample of MultiTerm modules contentsIn the end the training schedule became a verydetailed table of actions with specific times set foreach action.
The schedule was tested with two betagroups to see whether the combination ofpresentation and hands-on time and the overallsession length was working for everybody.Example schedule for a part of a session onTrados WinAlign:No.
Action File /Applicationmin(1) PowerPoint WinAlign.ppt 10?
WinAlignfunctionalities?
Glossarywith WinAlignspecific terms(2) ApplicationSharingWinAlign 10?
ProjectsetupEng01.doc,?
Add files Ger01.doc(3) Send trainingfilesEng01.rtf,Fre01.rtf,Jap01.doc,Ger01.doc02(4) Hands-on  10?
Projectsetup?
Add filesTable 2: Sample of WinAlign scheduleThe schedule needs to be as detailed as possibleand the trainer should strictly adhere to it, that is,the amount of time needed to show a certainfeature needs to be measured exactly.To be able to hold a training session over theinternet the training needs to be meticulouslyprepared and the trainer needs to be very familiarwith the meeting platform so as to be able to helpeach participant if problems arise with log-in,screen resolution or other.When structuring the material into modules, itcan also be defined which modules are prerequisitefor what other modules and which can be taken asstand alone modules, like in the following matrix:ModulesessionsKnowledgerequiredSessions onTranslator's WorkbenchSession 1 (basics)Session 2(batch processes)basicsSession 3 (administration) basics andbatch processesSession 4 (TagEditor) basics andbatch processesSession on Conversion ofDTP filesSession 1(S-Tagger FrameMaker)basics,TagEditorSession 2(S-Tagger Interleaf)basics,TagEditorTable 3: Knowledge required per session5 Technical RequirementsEach participant needs a computer with access tothe internet (a 56k-modem works OK but fasterconnections like ISDN or DSL are to be preferred).For a phone conference in parallel, an additionalphone line is needed.
Participants who only haveaccess to one phone line can also use the chatfunctionality to ask questions or the class usesvoice-over-IP altogether.The trainer should use a headset to keep thehands free for typing in the chat area and showingthe software features.
Students can also useheadsets which is particularly useful if the trainingsession includes hands-on training time.
If voice-over-IP is used, all participants need to haveheadsets connected to their computer.6 Training6.1 Classroom Training versus OnlineTrainingThe online training situation is very muchdifferent from a classroom training where thetrainer can communicate directly with theparticipants.6.1.1 In the ClassroomThe trainer has direct contact to the participantsand can see whether they are comfortable with thepace set by the trainer.
Questioning looks, nods,frowns and gestures tell the trainer a lot about howthe participants feel, whether they are followingthe topic, whether they need more time or if thespeed of teaching can be increased.Questions that can be answered with a nodinstead of "yes" can give the trainer feedback onthe situation in the class.The trainer can walk through the classroom andwork with students individually if help is needed orif there is an issue specific to one computer or oneparticipant.6.1.2 In the Virtual ClassroomThe trainer does not see the participants, so hasno way of knowing if the pace is too fast or tooslow and whether the participants are still there,bored or just listening intently, when it is quiet atthe other end of the line.A question like "Can we go on?"
usually doesnot get any feedback so the trainer has to rephrasethe question into something like "Who does have aquestion so far?"
or "Who does not see the pictureof ?
on the screen?
"The trainer has to request feedback activelymuch more often than in a face-to-face classroomsituation, as most participants will only ask whendirectly spoken to.
This is one reason why a 2-hoursession is already a very demanding time span foran online trainer.The trainer cannot observe what participants do.The participants must ask for help themselves, sothe trainer must make it easy for them to ask.
Forexample by talking about what can go wrong orrecounting own experiences with the use of thetool at the beginning and asking frequently if thereare any questions.7 Trainer SkillsThe trainer needs to be familiar with thetechnology of the platform that is used.
Log-indifficulties, switching between windows/screensand other technical questions the participants mayhave, need to be addressed instantly andcompetently.
(For technical difficulties at log-inand such the provider of the platform usually has atechnical hotline - the trainer might need a separatephone line to contact this hotline without leavingthe group alone.
)As the screen for the trainer and the participantsmay look differently (number of menus or buttonsavailable), the trainer should know what theparticipants can see and what they can't see.
Forthe first meetings it might make sense for thetrainer to be logged in twice - once as a trainer andonce as a participant.
This will increase cost, as theplatform has to be paid for by minute perparticipant, but it helps the trainer to control whatthe group can see or do.As an absolute MUST, the trainer has to includea "get-to-know-the-technology" session for eachgroup at the beginning of a new class or whenevera new participant joins the group.
This shouldinclude a short introduction of the meeting windowwith all the functionalities that are available, i.e.chat area, participants list, question button (tosignal the trainer that one wants to ask a question),menus and commands to share an application andso on.Another obstacle might be screen size.
If thetrainer has a larger screen than the participants andworks in full screen mode for application sharingfor example, the participants will not be able to seeall of the trainer's screen.
This has to be checked inthe first meeting as well, so that the trainer canadjust the window size of what he/she is showing,to the size of what all participants can see on theirscreens.This can take up to 10 minutes and should beincluded in the session schedule.On the first meeting a short round ofintroductions should be held.
If available theparticipants / trainer can show a video picture or apicture in a graphics file to the group and introducethemselves.
Most platforms offer a small windowwhere the trainer can show his video cam pictureduring the training, but as this tends to distractpeople from the contents of the session, it shouldbe used sparingly.
Another thing to test in the firstsession is the connection speed of all participants.After starting a test screen the trainer should askthe participants for feedback at what moment theyare able to see the whole screen as well.
This timespan has to be kept in mind during the completesession.
Before going on to show a feature or goingto the next slide of a presentation the participantsshould have enough time to take a look at eachscreen.The chat area also tends to be used a lot during asession.
Here the trainer can limit the use by onlyallowing the participants to either send chatinformation to all other participants or to thetrainer alone.
Chat amongst group members shouldbe disabled, especially if some of the groupmembers know each other already.The trainer needs to do some multitasking -presenting the session content, explaining thesession content verbally, keep an eye on the chatarea as well as on the "raise hand" feature of themeeting window in case somebody wants to ask aquestion (this is especially true for sessions usingthe voice-over-IP functionality, as this does notreally allow a good two-way communicationbecause of the delay of sound which can be up to 5seconds.
In which time the other person mighthave decided that nothing was coming forth andstarted talking again.
In this case the two soundinformation pieces would overlay each other,making it very hard to understand who said what.So usually the trainer has to give over the right tospeak to another participant and he/she has to giveit back when finished).
This is a very demandingjob so the meeting needs to be as well prepared aspossible.
All applications that will be shown, alldocuments and presentations that will be loaded tothe meeting window have to be present and openbefore the meeting starts.
Looking for a file toshow during a meeting does not give a veryprofessional impression as well as costing time andmoney.All along the session, from the greeting of theparticipants, the introduction to the technology andthroughout the session, the trainer will always haveto explain what he/she is doing at the moment.Especially if some of the participants have a slowerconnection than others, the next screen to beshown should be explained until everybody can seeit on their screens.
Asking often if there are anyquestions or if anybody cannot see the screen orcomplete the task in a hands-on period, helps tobridge those silences that tend to come up in phoneconferences when nobody knows what is comingnext.
And it also helps participants to ask theirquestions which they might not dare ask otherwisefor fear of interrupting the trainer.
Again this isvery demanding on the trainer, so that a 2 hoursession is probably the most an internet sessionshould last.Also the trainer needs to be very aware of his/heractions on the screen.
Using the mouse pointer toshow or circle some item on the screen should bedone deliberately and slowly otherwise theparticipants will only see a fuzzy, uncoordinatedmotion on their screens.
Mouse pointers should beused only if really necessary.Another very valuable feature is the possibilityto "tape" the session.
A session can be recorded forlater reuse, recap or for example if a presentationhas to be given several times and should alwayslook the same.
These can usually be viewed with aspecial viewer that is provided by the platformprovider.8 Training MixPresentations using this kind of meeting placeshould not take more than 30 minutes as theattention span will decrease drastically after thattime if no interaction of any kind is possible.The training mix that seems to work quite wellfor a software training, is a session withintroduction into the topic, possibly by somePowerPoint slides.
Then followed by a shortpresentation with the application itself (about 15minutes) with accompanying explanations.
Afterthat the participants get between 10 to 15 minutesto recreate what they have just seen on their ownscreen.
Files or example material for these hands-on periods may be distributed before the session byemail or can be sent to the participants directly viathe meeting platform (if this feature is available).The steps to be taken during this hands-on periodcan be listed in a window of the meeting window,as a simple document or a slide of a PowerPointpresentation, so that participants can look it up anytime they need it.After the session the trainer can use pollingfeatures to either ask session related questions(multiple/single choice) or this feature can be usedto get feedback on the overall feeling about thesession (Was the content useful?
Was the sessiontoo short/too long??).
Mostly those pollingfeatures give back an anonymous result in form ofpercentages.
The poll needs to be prepared inadvance and can be saved as a file for later reuse.9 Group SizeIn face-to-face software classes you can have upto 20 people, but probably would not considerdoing the whole course with only 2 participants.
(OK, 6-8 participants is the ideal number of peoplefor a group in software training but reality oftenteaches that this number is usually exceeded).Online training sessions should definitely not havemore than 6-8 people, as it will be very hard tohelp each participant with individual questions inthe limited timeframe.
For presentation-onlysessions, the number is practically only limited bythe number of participants the platform providerallows per session (if such limitations exist at all).But a group of 2 or even an individual trainingsession is still possible and much less expensivethan doing this in a classroom.10 Actual Training SessionsThe above experiences were attained byevaluating the technologies of virtual meetingplatforms and holding several training classes onthe use of Trados tools.10.1 SessionsBasically, the standard training class for 3Trados tools, Translator's Workbench, MultiTermand WinAlign which are usually taught within atwo-day training were split up into modules with 2-hour sessions.
2 sessions for the WinAlign module,2 sessions for the MultiTerm module and 4sessions for the Translator's Workbench.10.2 Training SequenceEach session was started with an overview overthe contents of the whole module and the contentsof the individual session.Each topic in each session was organized as inthe schedule shown above (Table 2).
Anintroduction with PowerPoint where necessary, alive demonstration of the topic, sending ofprepared demo files where necessary, hands-onperiod with questions and anwers if required.The files that were sent to the participants eitherincluded a small step-by-step instruction sheet orthe instructions were shown in the meeting place ofthe online platform for reference.10.3 TimingThe sessions were held twice a week for 4 to 5weeks depending on the availability of theparticipants.
The trainer was located in Germanywhereas most of the participants were located inthe United States.
This made it necessary for thetrainer to hold the sessions in the evening between8pm and 10pm, so that the participants were ableto take the sessions during their workday.10.4 ParticipantsInitially, the training was developed with thefreelance translator in mind.
This target group hasto get aquainted with the tools but often does nothave the time or financial means to also pay fortravel and training costs.
A mailing was sent out tofreelance translators, project managers andlocalization managers.The profiles of the participants showed that mostof them were project managers instead of thetranslators that this course was targeted at in thefirst place.
And it showed that the setup of thetraining, with its focus on hands-on training wasinteresting for project managers as well but notexactly the most efficient way for them.
Projectmanagers need a rather detailed overview, so thatthey know what functionalities are available andhow they will make their life easier, but they donot necessarily need to know all the details ofhandling a tool as a translator would.
Also, thehands-on phases were not so important for them, asthey did not need to practice as much as atranslator.
Partly because they usually feel more athome with a computer and are very quick inunderstanding the underlying techniques and ideas.Partly because they will only use some fewfeatures of all the ones a translator might use.10.5 Changes from Group 1 to Group 2The second group also consisted mainly ofproject managers, therefore the contents andschedule of the sessions were adapted in such away as to give an overview over all functionalitiesthat might be helpful for project managers and onlyshowing the ones that related to the actualtranslating.
Also, in the introduction to each topicthere was added a short example of where thisfeatuer might be used.
At the end of each topic, thetrainer added some advice about possible problemsthat might occurr with a given functionality andsolutions for them.10.6 TrainerIt also showed that as a trainer you have to feelvery much at home with a computer and theinternet in order to enjoy live online classes and beable to switch between the hands-on part, wherethe actual application is running on the computerof the participant and the presentation part, wherethey only see the screen of the trainer, withoutconfusing the applications.11 Advantages / Disadvantages of OnlineTrainingThe following lists give an overview over theadvantages and disadvantages of using live internetsessions for training purposes.11.1 Advantages?
Easy to use?
Flexible?
Time zone-independent?
Less expensive than classroom meetings?
Short sessions that can be taken at theworkplace?
Everybody works with his/her owncomputer?
Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week?
Group size does not matter?
Sessions can be organized in such a waythat participants need not take the full classbut only modules that are useful to them(cutting cost and time spent for thetraining)?
Cuts down on costs (travel, time awayfrom work?
)11.2 Disadvantages?
No direct contact between trainer andparticipants except over voice (phone orvoice-over-IP)?
Only useful for participants who have acertain knowledge about how to work withcomputers and the internet?
Training contents has to be prepared in aspecial, modular way?
Trainer needs to know the technology anddo multitasking which can be verydemanding12 ConclusionWhile live online sessions are definitely a goodway to cut down on training expenses, it cannot bean only substitute for a face-to-face classroomtraining, also it is not the ideal solution for everyuser.
It needs a lot of preparation and timing and isvery demanding on the trainer regardingcommunication with the participants and attentionto a detailed training session plan.It is however a very flexible alternative tophone-only conferences and a very effective wayto get collaboration on an internationallydistributed team or training group.
As connectionsto the internet get more speedy and less expensivethere is a great opportunity to deliver more liveonline training sessions over the web.
Also it is tobe expected that voice-over-IP will improve a lotwithin the next few years so that parallel phoneconferences will not be needed that much anymore.ReferencesList of virtual meeting platformsThe following list shows some of the providersof virtual meeting platforms.
Most offer the samefeature set of presentation window, chat area,application sharing, polling, recording and meetingsetup.
This is not a complete list of all providersand the services they offer except phoneconferences and or web conferences vary quite alot.They all offer a free sample meetings to get toknow the technology.
Most of these platformproviders also offer an introduction into the workof an e-trainer.Provider WebsiteWebExOne of the firstplatforms on themarket, says it holds64% market share,costs at 45cents/minute/participant.
Phone conferencesat additional costbetween 10 (dial-in)and 25 (dial-out)cent/minute/personwww.webex.comDataExchange27 cent per minute perparticipant, usesWebEx technologywww.freeconferencecall.comVcademyby Daten undDokumentationUses technology fromCentra(www.centra.com), nophone conferencingoffered, only voice-over-IPwww.daten-dokumentation.deNetucateNeeds clients softwareinstallation, no pricinginformation found onthe websitewww.netucate.comNetMeetingComponent ofWindows 2000 byMicrosoftwww.microsoft.comSametimeBy IBM, Lotus, needsclient installedSaveOnConferencesPhone conferencingwith free meetingplatform as an addition(from 8.5 cents downto 5.5 cents per minuteper participant,depending on volume)www.saveonconferences.comGenesysPhone conferencingand meeting platform,prices per minute perparticipant but noactual prices onwebsite availablewww.genesys.comFurther reading for example:Stephen J. Bigelow.
1/3/02.
CNET review: Wecompare 5 Web conferencing apps.http://reviews.cnet.com/4520-3535_7-5020761-1.html?legacy=cnetClive Shepherd.
2003.
Training the e-Trainer:Website of Fastrak Consulting Ltd.http://www.fastrak-consulting.co.uk/tactix/Features/etrainer.htm
