Proceedings of the ACL-ISMB Workshop on Linking Biological Literature, Ontologies and Databases: MiningBiological Semantics, pages 54?61, Detroit, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsIntEx: A Syntactic Role Driven Protein-Protein Interaction Extractorfor Bio-Medical TextSyed Toufeeq Ahmed, Deepthi Chidambaram, Hasan Davulcu*, Chitta Baral.Department of Computer Science and Engineering,Arizona State University,Tempe, AZ 85287.
{toufeeq, deepthi, hdavulcu, chitta}@asu.eduAbstractIn this paper, we present a fully auto-mated extraction system, named IntEx, toidentify gene and protein interactions inbiomedical text.
Our approach is based onfirst splitting complex sentences into sim-ple clausal structures made up of syntacticroles.
Then, tagging biological entitieswith the help of biomedical and linguisticontologies.
Finally, extracting completeinteractions by analyzing the matchingcontents of syntactic roles and their lin-guistically significant combinations.
Ourextraction system handles complex sen-tences and extracts multiple and nested in-teractions specified in a sentence.Experimental evaluations with two otherstate of the art extraction systems indicatethat the IntEx system achieves better per-formance without the labor intensive pat-tern engineering requirement.
?1 IntroductionGenomic research in the last decade has resulted inthe production of a large amount of data in theform of micro-array experiments, sequence infor-mation and publications discussing the discoveries.The data generated by these experiments is highly?
To whom correspondence should be addressedconnected; the results from sequence analysis andmicro-arrays depend on functional information andsignal transduction pathways cited in peer-reviewed publications for evidence.
Though scien-tists in the field are aided by many online data-bases of biochemical interactions, currently amajority of these are curated labor intensively bydomain experts.
Information extraction from texthas therefore been pursued actively as an attemptto extract knowledge from published material andto speed up the curation process significantly.In the biomedical context, the first step towardsinformation extraction is to recognize the names ofproteins (Fukuda, Tsunoda et al 1998), genes,drugs and other molecules.
The next step is to rec-ognize interaction events between such entities(Blaschke, Andrade et al 1999; Blaschke, Andradeet al 1999; Hunter 2000; Thomas, Milward et al2000; Thomas, Rajah et al 2000; Ono, Hishigakiet al 2001; Hahn and Romacker 2002) and then tofinally recognize the relationship between interac-tion events.
However, several issues make extract-ing such interactions and relationships difficultsince (Seymore, McCallum et al1999) (i) the taskinvolves free text ?
hence there are many ways ofstating the same fact (ii) the genre of text is notgrammatically simple (iii) the text includes a lot oftechnical terminology unfamiliar to existing natu-ral language processing systems (iv) informationmay need to be combined across several sentences,and (v) there are many sentences from which noth-ing should be extracted.In this paper, we present a fully automated extrac-tion approach to identify gene and protein interact-54tions in natural language text with the help of bio-medical and linguistic ontologies.
Our approachworks in three main stages:1.
Complex Sentence Processor (CSP): First, issplitting complex sentences into simple clausalstructures made of up syntactic roles.2.
Tagging: Then, tagging biological entitieswith the help of biomedical and linguistic on-tologies.3.
Interaction Extractor: Finally, extractingcomplete interactions by analyzing the match-ing contents of syntactic roles and their lin-guistically significant combinations.The novel aspects of our system are its ability tohandle complex sentence structures using theComplex Sentence Processor (CSP) and to extractmultiple and nested interactions specified in a sen-tence using the Interaction Extractor without thelabor intensive pattern engineering requirement.Our approach is based on identification of syntac-tic roles, such as subject, objects, verb and modifi-ers, by using the word dependencies.
We have useda dependency based English grammar parser, theLink Grammar (Sleator and Temperley 1993), toidentify the roles.
Syntactic roles are utilized totransform complex sentences into their multipleclauses each containing a single event.
This clausalstructure enables us to engineer an automated algo-rithm for the extraction of events thus overcomingthe burden of labor intensive pattern engineeringfor complex and compound sentences.
Pronounresolution module assists Interaction Extractor inidentifying interactions spread across multiple sen-tences using pronominal references.
We performedcomparative experimental evaluations with twoFigure 1: System Architecturestate of the art systems.
Our experimental resultsshow that the IntEx system presented here achievesbetter performance without the labor intensive ruleengineering step which is required for these stateof the art systems.The rest of the paper is organized as follows.
InSection 2 we survey the related work.
In Section 3we present an architectural overview of the IntExsystem.
Sections 4 and 5 explain and illustrate theindividual modules of the IntEx system.
A detailedevaluation of our system with the BioRAT(Corney, Buxton et al 2004) and GeneWays(Rzhetsky, Iossifov et al 2004) is presented in Sec-tion 6.
Section 7 concludes the paper.2 Related WorkInformation extraction is the extraction of salientfacts about pre-specified types of events, entities(Bunescu, Ge et al 2003) or relationships fromfree text.
Information extraction from free-text util-izes shallow-parsing techniques (Daelemans,Buchholz et al 1999), Parts-of-Speech tag-ging(Brill 1992), noun and verb phrase chunking(Mikheev and Finch 1997), verb subject and objectrelationships (Daelemans, Buchholz et al 1999),and learned (Califf and Mooney 1998; Craven andKumlein 1999; Seymore, McCallum et al 1999) orhand-build patterns to automate the creation ofspecialized databases.Manual pattern engineering approaches employshallow parsing with patterns to extract the interac-tions.
In the (Ono, Hishigaki et al 2001) system,55sentences are first tagged using a dictionary basedprotein name identifier and then processed by amodule which extracts interactions directly fromcomplex and compound sentences using regularexpressions based on part of speech tags.The SUISEKI system of Blaschke (Blaschke,Andrade et al 1999) also uses regular expressions,with probabilities that reflect the experimental ac-curacy of each pattern to extract interactions intopredefined frame structures.GENIES (Friedman, Kra et al 2001) utilizes agrammar based NLP engine for information extrac-tion.
Recently, it has been extended as GeneWays(Rzhetsky, Iossifov et al 2004), which also pro-vides a Web interface that allows  users to searchand submit papers of interest for analysis.
TheBioRAT system (Corney, Buxton et al 2004) usesmanually engineered  templates that combine lexi-cal and semantic information to identify proteininteractions.
The GeneScene system(Leroy, Chenet al 2003) extracts interactions using frequentpreposition-based templates.Grammar engineering approaches, on the otherhand use manually generated specialized grammarrules (Rinaldi, Schneider et al 2004) that performa deep parse of the sentences.
Temkin (Temkin andGilder 2003) addresses the problem of extractingprotein interactions by using an extendable butmanually built Context Free Grammar (CFG) thatis designed specifically for parsing  biological text.The PathwayAssist system uses an NLP system,MedScan (Novichkova, Egorov et al 2003), for thebiomedical domain that tags the entities in text andproduces a semantic tree.
Slot filler type rules areengineered based on the semantic tree representa-tion to extract relationships from text.
Recently,extraction systems have also used link grammar(Grinberg, Lafferty et al 1995) to identify interac-tions between proteins (Ding, Berleant et al 2003).Their approach relies on various linkage paths be-tween named entities such as gene and proteinnames.
Such manual pattern engineering ap-proaches for information extraction are very hardto scale up to large document collections since theyrequire labor-intensive and skill-dependent patternengineering.Machine learning approaches have also been usedto learn extraction rules from user tagged trainingdata.
These approaches represent the rules learnt invarious formats such as decision trees (Chiang, Yuet al 2004) or grammar rules (Phuong, Lee et al2003).
Craven et al(Craven and Kumlien 1999)explored an automatic rule-learning approach thatuses a combination of FOIL (Quinlan 1990) andNa?ve Bayes Classifier to learn extraction rules.3 System ArchitectureThe sentences in English are classified as eithersimple, complex, compound or complex-compound based on the number and types ofclauses present in them.
Our extraction system re-solves the complex, compound and complex-compound sentence structures (collectively re-ferred to as complex sentence structures in thisdocument) into simple sentence clauses which con-tain a subject and a predicate.
These simple sen-tence clauses are then processed to obtain theinteractions between proteins.
The architecture ofthe IntEx system is shown in Figure 1, and the fol-lowing Sections 4 and 5 explain the workings of itsmodules.4 Complex Sentence Processing4.1 Pronoun ResolutionInteractions are often specified through pronominalreferences to entities in the discourse, or throughco references where, a number of phrases are usedto refer to the same entity.
Hence, a complete ap-proach to extracting information from text shouldalso take into account the resolution of these refer-ences.
References to entities are generally catego-rized as co-references or anaphora and has beeninvestigated using various approaches (Casta?o,Zhang et al 2002).
IntEx anaphora resolution sub-system currently focuses on third person pronounsand reflexives since the first and second personpronouns are frequently used to refer to the authorsof the papers.Our pronoun resolution module uses a heuristicapproach to identify the noun phrases referred bythe pronouns in a sentence.
The heuristic is basedon the number of the pronoun (singular or plural)and the proximity of the noun phrase.
The firstnoun phrase that matches the number of the pro-noun is considered as the referred phrase.564.2 Entity TaggerThe entity tagging module marks the names ofgenes, and proteins in text.
The process of taggingis a combination of dictionary look up and heuris-tics.
Regular expressions are also used to mark thenames that do not have a match in the dictionaries.The protein name dictionaries for the entity taggerare derived from various biological sources such asUMLS1, Gene Ontology2 and Locuslink3 database1 http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/2 http://www.geneontology.org/3 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/LocusLink/.Fig.
3 Example - a) A Sentence from an abstract (PMID: 1956405).
b) Pronoun ?it?s?
is resolvedwith ?The SAC6 gene?.
c) Each row represents a simple sentence, d) for each constituent, role type isresolved and interaction words are tagged, e) Protein-Protein interaction is extracted.4.3 PreprocessorThe tagged sentences need to be pre-processed toreplace syntactic constructs, such as parenthesizednouns and domain specific terminology that causethe Link Grammar Parser to produce an incorrectoutput.
This problem is overcome by replacingsuch elements with alternative formats that is rec-ognizable by the parser.4.4 Link Grammar and the Link grammarparserLink grammar (LG)  introduced by  Sleator andTemperley (Sleator and Temperley 1991) is a de-pendency based grammatical system.
The basicidea of link grammar is to connect pairs of words57in a sentence with various syntactically significantlinks.
The LG consists of set of words, each ofwhich has various alternative linking requirements.A linking requirement can be seen as a block withconnectors above each word.
A connector is satis-fied by matching it with compatible connector.Fig.2 below shows how linking requirements canbe satisfied to produce a parse for the example sen-tence "The dog chased a cat".Even though LG has no explicit notion of constitu-ents or categories (Sleator and Temperley 1993),they emerge as contiguous connected sequence ofwords attached to the rest of sentence by a particu-lar types of links, as in the above example where?the dog?
and ?a cat?
are connected to the mainverb via ?S?
and ?O?
links respectively.
Our algo-rithms utilize this property of LG where certainlink types allow us to extract the constituents ofsentences irrespective of the tense.
The LGparser?s ability to detect multiple verbs and theirconstituent linkage in complex sentences makes itparticularly well suited for our approach duringresolving of complex sentences into their multipleclauses.
The LG parsers?
dictionary can also beeasily enhanced to produce better parses for bio-medical text (Szolovits 2003).4.5  Complex Sentence Processor AlgorithmThe complex sentence processor (CSP) componentsplitsthe complex sentences into a collection ofsimple sentence clauses which contain a subjectand a predicate.
The CSP follows a verb-based ap-proach to extract the simple clauses.
A sentence isidentified to be complex it contains more than oneverb.
A simple sentence is identified to be one witha subject, a verb, objects and their modifyingphrases.
The example in Figure 3 illustrates themajor steps involved during complex sentenceprocessing.
The following schema is used as theformat to represent simple clauses:Subject | Verb | Object | Modifying phrase to theverb5 Interaction ExtractionInteraction Extractor (IE) extracts interactionsfrom simple sentence clauses produced by thecomplex sentence processor.
The highly technicalterminology and the complex grammatical con-structs that are present in the biomedical abstractsmake the extraction task difficult, Even a simplesentence with a single verb can contain multipleand/or nested interactions.
That?s why our IE sys-tem is based on a deep parse tree structure pre-sented by the LG and it considers a thorough casebased analysis of contents of various syntacticroles of the sentences like their subjects (S), verbs(V), objects (O) and modifying phrases (M) as wellas their linguistically significant and meaningfulcombinations like S-V-O, S-O, S-V-M or S-M, il-lustrated in Figure 4, for finding and extractingprotein-protein interactions.Figure 2: Link grammar representation of a sentence5.1 Role Type MatcherFor each syntactic constituent of the sentence, therole type matcher identifies the type of each role aseither ?Elementary?, ?Partial?
or ?Complete?
basedon its matching content, as presented  in Table 1.Table 1: Role Type MatcherRole  Type DescriptionElementary If the role contains a Protein name or aninteraction word.Partial  If the role has a Protein name and an interac-tion word.Complete If the role has at least two Protein names andan interaction word.Figure 4: Interaction Extraction: Composition and analysisof various syntactic roles.S O MS-O S-MSubject (S) Modifying Phrase (M)Object (O)S-V-O S-V-M585.2 Interaction Word TaggerThe words that match a biologically significantaction between two gene/protein names are labeledas ?interaction words?.
Our gazetteer for interactionwords is derived from UMLS and WordNet4.
Por-ter Stemmer (Porter 1997) was also used for stem-ming such words before matching.5.3 Interaction Extractor (IE)IntEx interaction extractor works as follows.
Theinput to IE is the preprocessed and typed simpleclause structures.
The IE algorithm progresses bot-tom up, starting from each syntactic role S, V orM, and expanding them using the lattice providedin Figure 4 until all ?Complete?
singleton or com-posite role types are obtained.Consider the example shown in Figure 3, for thethird sentence, the boundaries of the subject andthe modifying phrase are identified and both arerole typed as ?Elementary?
using Table 1.
Since themain verb is tagged as an interaction word, IE usesthe S-V-M composite role from Figure 4 to findand extract the following complete interaction:{?The SAC 6 gene Protein?, ?colocalizes?, ?actin?}.?Complete?
roles also need to be analyzed in orderto determine their voice as ?active?
or ?passive?.Since there are only a small number of prepositioncombinations, such as of-by, from-to etc., that oc-cur frequently within the clauses, they can be usedto distinguish the agent and the theme of the inter-actions.For example, in the sentence ?The kinase phos-phorylation of pRb by c-Abl in the gland couldinhibit ku70?, the subject role is ?The kinase phos-phorylation of pRb by c-Abl in the gland?.
Sincethe subject has at least two protein names and aninteraction word it is ?complete?.
By using the ?of-by?
pattern (?<Interaction-Word (action)>... of...<theme>?by  ...<agent>?)
the IE is able toextract the correct interaction {c-Abl, phosphoryla-tion, pRb} from the subject role alone.4 http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/6 Evaluation & discussionWe have evaluated the performance of our systemwith two state of the art systems - BioRAT(Corney, Buxton et al 2004) and GeneWays(Rzhetsky, Iossifov et al 2004).Blaschke and Valencia (Valencia 2001) recom-mend DIP (Xenarios, Rice et al 2000) dataset  as abenchmark for evaluating biomedical InformationExtraction systems.
The first evaluation for IntExsystem was performed on the same dataset 5 thatwas used for the BioRAT evaluation.
For BioRATevaluation, authors identified 389 interactions fromthe DIP database such that both proteins participat-ing in the interaction had SwissProt entries.
Theseinteractions correspond to 229 abstracts from thePubMed.
The BioRAT system was evaluated usingthese 229 abstracts.
The interactions extracted bythe system were then manually examined by a do-main expert for precision and recall.
Precision is ameasure of correctness of the system, and is calcu-lated as the ratio of true positives to the sum of truepositives and false positives.
The sensitivity of thesystem is given by the recall measure, calculated asthe ratio of true positives to the sum of true posi-tives and false negatives.Table 2: Recall comparison of IntEx and BioRAT from  229 ab-stracts when compared with DIP database.IntEx BioRAT RecallResults Cases Percent (%) Cases Percent(%)Match 142 26.94 79 20.31NoMatch 385 73.06 310 79.67Totals 527 100.00 389 100.00We have also limited our protein name dictionaryto the SwissProt entries.
Tables 2 and 3 present theevaluation results as compared with the BioRATsystem.
A detailed analysis of the sources of alltypes of errors is shown in Figure 6.5 Dataset was obtained from Dr. David Corney by personalcommunication.59Table 3: Precision comparison of IntEx and BioRAT  from  229abstracts.DIP contains protein interactions from both ab-stracts and full text.
Since our extraction systemwas tested only on the abstracts, the system missedout on some interactions that were only present inthe full text of the abstract.Second evaluation for the IntEx system was doneto test its recall performance using an article6 thatwas also used by the GeneWays (Rzhetsky, Iossi-fov et al 2004) system.
Both systems performancewas tested using the full text of the article(Friedman, Kra et al 2001).
GeneWays systemachieves a recall of 65% where as IntEx extracteda total of 44 interactions corresponding to a recallmeasure of 66 %.ConclusionIn this paper, we present a fully automated extrac-tion system for identifying gene and protein inter-6 Dataset was obtained from Dr. Andrew Rzhetsky by personalcommunication.actions from biomedical text.
The source code anddocumentation of the IntEx system, as well as allexperimental documents and extracted interactionsare available online at our Web site athttp://cips.eas.asu.edu/textmining.htm.
Our extrac-tion system handles complex sentences and ex-tracts multiple nested interactions specified in asentence.
Experimental evaluations of the IntExsystem with the state of the art semi-automatedsystems -- the BioRAT and GeneWays datasetsindicates that our system performs better withoutthe labor intensive rule engineering requirement.We have shown that a syntactic role-based ap-proach compounded with linguistically sound in-terpretation rules applied on the full sentence?sparse can achieve better performance than existingsystems which are based on manually engineeredpatterns which are both costly to develop and arenot as scalable as the automated mechanisms pre-sented in this paper.IntEx BioRAT PrecisionResults Cases Percent (%) CasesPercent(%)Correct 262 65.66 239 55.07Incorrect 137 34.33 195 44.93Totals 399 100.00 434 100.00AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank to both Dr. David Corneyand Dr. Andrew Rzhetsky for sharing their evalua-tion datasets and results.ReferencesBlaschke, C., M. A. Andrade, et al (1999).
"Automatic extrac-tion of biological information from scientific text: Protein-protein interactions."
Proceedings of International Sympo-sium on Molecular Biology: 60-67.Brill, E. (1992).
"A simple rule-based part-of-speech tagger.
"Proceedings of ANLP 92, 3rd Conference on AppliedNatural Language Processing: 152-155.
Figure 6: Analysis of types of errors encounteredBunescu, R., R. Ge, et al (2003).
Comparative Experimentson Learning Information Extractors for Proteins and   theirInteractions.
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine.Califf, M. E. and R. J. Mooney (1998).
"Relational learning ofpattern-match rules for information extraction."
WorkingNotes of AAAI Spring Symposium on Applying MachineLearning to Discourse Processing: 6-11.Casta?o, J., J. Zhang, et al (2002).
Anaphora Resolution inBiomedical Literature.
International Symposium on Refer-ence Resolution.
Alicante, Spain.Chiang, J.-H., H.-C. Yu, et al (2004).
"GIS: a biomedical text-mining system for gene information discovery."
Bioinfor-matics 20(1): 120-121.60Corney, D. P. A., B. F. Buxton, et al (2004).
"BioRAT: ex-tracting biological information from full-length papers.
"Bioinformatics 20(17): 3206-3213.Craven, M. and J. Kumlien (1999).
Constructing BiologicalKnowledge Bases by Extracting Information from TextSources.
Proceedings of the Seventh International Confer-ence on Intelligent Systems   for Molecular Biology: 77--86.Daelemans, W., S. Buchholz, et al (1999).
"Memory-basedshallow parsing."
Proceedings of CoNLL.Ding, J., D. Berleant, et al (2003).
Extracting BiochemicalInteractions from MEDLINE Using a Link GrammarParser.
Proceedings of the 15th IEEE International Confer-ence on Tools with   Artificial Intelligence (ICTAI'03):467.Friedman, C., P. Kra, et al (2001).
GENIES: a natural-language processing system for the extraction of molecularpathways from journal articles.
Proceedings of the Interna-tional Confernce on Intelligent Systems for   Molecular Bi-ology: 574-82.Fukuda, K., T. Tsunoda, et al (1998).
"Toward informationextraction: Identifying protein names from biological pa-pers."
PSB 1998,: 705-716.Grinberg, D., J. Lafferty, et al (1995).
"A Robust ParsingAlgorithm For LINK Grammars."
(CMU-CS-TR-95-125).Hahn, U. and M. Romacker (2002).
"Creating knowledgerepositories from biomedical reports: The medsyndikatetext mining system."
Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing2002: 338-349.Hunter, R. T. a. C. R. a. J.
(2000).
"Extracting MolecularBinding Relationships from Biomedical Text."
In Proceed-ings of  the ANLP-NAACL 000,Association for Computa-tional Linguistics: pages 188-195.Leroy, G., H. Chen, et al (2003).
Genescene: biomedical textand data mining.
Proceedings of the third ACM/IEEE-CSjoint conference on Digital libraries: 116--118.Mikheev, A. and S. Finch (1997).
"A workbench for findingstructure in texts."
Proceedings of Applied Natural Lan-guage Processing (ANLP-97).Novichkova, S., S. Egorov, et al (2003).
"MedScan, a naturallanguage processing engine for MEDLINE abstracts."
Bio-informatics 19(13): 1699-1706.Ono, T., H. Hishigaki, et al (2001).
"Automatic Extraction ofInformation on protein-protein interactions from the bio-logical literature."
Bioinformatics 17(2): 155-161.Phuong, T. M., D. Lee, et al (2003).
"Learning Rules to Ex-tract Protein Interactions from Biomedical Text."
PAKDD2003: 148-158.Porter, M. F. (1997).
"An algorithm for suffix stripping."
Pro-gam, vol.
14, no.
3, July 1980: 313--316.Quinlan, J. R. (1990).
"Learning Logical Definitions fromRelations."
Mach.
Learn.
5(3): 239--266.Rinaldi, F., G. Schneider, et al (2004).
Mining relations in theGENIA corpus.
Proceedings of the Second EuropeanWorkshop on Data Mining and Text Mining   for Bioin-formatics: 61 - 68.Rzhetsky, A., I. Iossifov, et al (2004).
"GeneWays: a systemfor extracting, analyzing, visualizing, and integrating   mo-lecular pathway data."
J. of Biomedical Informatics 37(1):43--53.Seymore, K., A. McCallum, et al (1999).
Learning hiddenmarkov model structure for information extraction.
AAAI99 Workshop on Machine Learning for Information Extrac-tion.Sleator, D. and D. Temperley (1991).
Parsing English with aLink Grammar.Carnegie Mellon University Computer Sci-ence technical report CMU-CS-91-196, Carnegie MellonUniversity.Sleator, D. and D. Temperley (1993).
Parsing English with aLink Grammar.
Third International Workshop on ParsingTechnologies.Szolovits, P. (2003).
"Adding a Medical Lexicon to an EnglishParser."
Proc.
AMIA 2003 Annual Symposium.
: 639-643.Temkin, J. M. and M. R. Gilder (2003).
"Extraction of proteininteraction information from unstructured text using   acontext-free grammar."
Bioinformatics 19(16): 2046-2053.Thomas, J., D. Milward, et al (2000).
"Automatic extractionof protein interactions from scientific abstracts."
Proceed-ings of the Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing 5: 502-513.Thomas, R., C. Rajah, et al (2000).
"Extracting molecularbinding relationships from biomedical text."
Proceedings ofthe ANLP-NAACL 2000: 188-195.Valencia, B. a.
(2001).
"Can bibliographic pointers for knownbiological data be found automatically?
Protein interactionsas a case study."
Comp.
Funct.
Genom.
2: 196-206.Xenarios, I., D. W. Rice, et al (2000).
"DIP: the Database ofInteracting Proteins."
Nucl.
Acids Res.
28(1): 289-291.61
