Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Psychocomputational Models of Human Language Acquisition, pages 69?71,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsStatistics vs. UG in language acquisition:Does a bigram analysis predict auxiliary inversion?Xu?n-Nga Cao Kam Iglika Stoyneshka Lidiya TornyovaPhD Program in Linguistics PhD Program in Linguistics PhD Program in LinguisticsThe Graduate Center,City University of New YorkThe Graduate Center,City University of New YorkThe Graduate Center,City University of New Yorkxkam@gc.cuny.edu idst_r@yahoo.com ltornyova@gc.cuny.eduWilliam Gregory Sakas Janet Dean FodorPhD Programs in Computer Science and LinguisticsThe Graduate CenterPhD Program in LinguisticsThe Graduate CenterDepartment of Computer Science,Hunter College,City University of New Yorksakas@hunter.cuny.eduCity University of New Yorkjfodor@gc.cuny.eduExtended AbstractReali & Christiansen (2003, 2004) have challengedChomsky?s most famous "poverty of stimulus"claim (Chomsky, 1980) by showing that astatistical learner which tracks transitionalprobabilities between adjacent words (bigrams)can correctly differentiate grammatical andungrammatical auxiliary inversion in questions like(1) and (2):(1) Is the little boy who is crying hurt?
(2) *Is the little boy who crying is hurt?No examples like (1) occurred in the corpus thatR&C employed, yet the grammatical form waschosen by the bigram model in 92% of the testsentence pairs.
R&C conclude that no innateknowledge is necessary to guide child learners inmaking this discrimination, because the inputevidently contains enough indirect statisticalinformation (from other sentence types) to leadlearners to the correct generalization.R&C's data are impressive, but there is reason todoubt that they extend to other natural languages oreven to other constructions in English.
Whilereplicating R&C's Experiment 1 (see Data [A]), wediscovered that its success rests on 'accidental'English facts.Six bigrams differ between the grammatical andungrammatical versions of a sentence.
(The 6relevant bigrams for the test sentence pair (1)/(2)are shown in Table 1.)
However, 86% of thecorrectly predicted test sentences were definitivelyselected by the single bigram "who is" (or "thatis"), because it occurred in the corpus and none ofthe remaining 5 bigrams did.Distinctivebigrams in (1) who is is crying crying hurtDistinctivebigrams in (2) who crying crying is is hurtTable 1.
Six bigrams that differentiate Is the littleboy who is crying hurt?
from Is the little boy whocrying is hurt?
The first sentence is selected (asgrammatical) solely due to the high probability ofwho is.It can be anticipated that when there is nobigram ?who/that is?
in the grammatical test69sentence (e.g., in relative clauses with object-gaps,auxiliaries such as was, can, or do-support), thelearning will be less successful.
Our resultsconfirm this prediction: object relatives like (4)and (5), where "who/that is?
is not present, werepoorly discriminated (see Data [B]).
(4) Is the wagon your sister is pushing red?
(5) *Is the wagon your sister pushing is red?Results for sentences with only main verbs,requiring do-support in question-formation, like (6)and (7), were also very weak (see Data [C]).
(6) Does the boy who plays the drum want acookie?
(7) *Does the boy who play the drum wants acookie?Furthermore, the powerful effect of "who/thatis" in R&C?s experiment reflects no knowledge ofrelative clauses.
It rests on the homophony ofEnglish relative pronouns with interrogative "who"and deictic "that".
In R&C's training-set, thephonological/orthographic form "who" occurred asrelative pronoun only 3 times, but as interrogativepronoun 44 times.
R&C's analysis didn'tdifferentiate these.
(Similarly for "that": 14 relativeversus 778 deictic or complementizer.
)In some languages relative pronouns arehomophonous with other parts of speech (e.g., withdeterminers in German).
We explored the possibleeffects of this by replacing the relative pronouns inthe English corpus with ?the?.
Discriminationbetween grammatical and ungrammatical aux-inversion was poor (see Data [D]).Many human languages lack any suchsuperficial overlaps with relative pronouns.
Sounless there are other cues instead, learning can beexpected to be unsuccessful in those languages too.We tested this hypothesis in two ways:(i) We distinguished relative pronouns from theirnon-relative homophones in English by codingthe former as ?who-rel?
and ?that-rel?
in boththe corpus and the test sentences.
We found agreatly reduced ability to select the grammaticalaux-inversion construction (see Data [E]).
(ii) We tested verb fronting in Dutch questions,using a Dutch corpus comparable to the Englishcorpus used by R&C (the Groningen Dutchcorpus from CHILDES; approximately 21,000utterances of child-directed speech, age 1;8 to1;11).
Due largely to verb-final word order inrelative clauses, there was no one distinctivebigram that could be relied on to predict thecorrect choice.
Performance on a set of 20 itemstested so far was no better than chance (seeData [F]).
Clearly, the Dutch examplesprovided no alternative cues for selecting thegrammatical version.Thus, the success rate in R&C?s experiment hasvery limited applicability.
In general, bigramprobability (or sentence cross-entropy, ascomputed in these experiments) is a poor predictorof grammaticality; e.g., the measure that prefers (1)over (2) mis-prefers (8) over (9):(8) *Scared you want to the doggie.
(9) She can hear what we?re saying.We conclude that the bigram evidence againstthe poverty of the stimulus for languageacquisition has not been substantiated to date.
Itremains to be seen whether richer statistics-basedinductive models will offer more robust cross-language learnability.ReferencesChomsky, N. (1980).
in M. Piattelli-Palmarini,(1980) Language and Learning: The DebateBetween Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky.Cambridge: Harvard University Press.Reali, F. & Christiansen, M. H. (2003).Reappraising Poverty of Stimulus Argument: ACorpus Analysis Approach.
BUCLD 28Proceedings Supplement.Reali, F. & Christiansen, M. H. (2004).
StructureDependence in Language Acquisition:Uncovering the Statistical Richness of theStimulus.
Proceedings of the 26th AnnualMeeting of the Cognitive Science Society.70Data% correct% incorrect% can?tchoose# of sentencepairs testedto dateExperimentA 87 13 0 100 Replication of R&CB 33 15 52 100 Object-gapC 50 50 0 50 Do-supportD 17 41 42 100 ?The?
replacementE 17 39 44 100 Who-rel/That-relF 45 50 5 20 Dutch71
