Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Building Educational Applications Using NLP,pages 85?92, Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?Association for Computational Linguistics, 2005Situational language training for hotel receptionistsFr?d?rique Segond, Thibault Parmentier Roberta Stock, Ran RosnerXerox Research Centre Europe The Marathon GroupMeylan, 38240, France  Tel Aviv, Israelsegond@xrce.xerox.com rstock@marathon-group.netMariola Usteran MuelaGrupo gdt.Sevilla, Spainmustaran@grupogdt.comAbstractThis paper presents the lessons learned inexperimenting with Thetis1, an EC projectfocusing on the creation and localizationof enhanced on-line pedagogical contentfor language learning in tourism industry.It is based on a general innovative ap-proach to language learning that allowsemployees to acquire practical oral andwritten skills while navigating a relevantprofessional scenario.
The approach is en-abled by an underlying platform(EXILLS) that integrates virtual realitywith a set of linguistic, technologies tocreate a new form of dynamic, extensible,goal-directed e-content.1 CreditsThe work described in this paper has been sup-ported by the European Commission in the frameof the eContent program2.2 IntroductionThetis focuses on the creation and localization ofenhanced on-line pedagogical content for languagelearning in tourism industry.
It is based on a gen-eral approach to language learning that allows em-ployees to acquire practical oral and written skills1THETIS ?
Training for hotel employees to interact in situa-tions (EDC- 42052).
www.thetis-project.org.2http://www.cordis.lu/econtent/while navigating a relevant professional scenario.The approach is enabled by an underlying platform(EXILLS3) that integrates virtual reality with a setof linguistic technologies to create a new form ofdynamic, extensible, goal-directed e-contentThetis has two aims:?
Test the value of linguistic technologiesfor on-line language learning.?
Localize and repurpose existing e-contentfor English and vocational blended train-ing material that was first designed forCDROM in order to offer it on-line.
Thematerial is meant to develop oral compre-hension and reading skills in order to en-able end-users to communicate withEnglish speaking customers.
It will beused for the continuous vocational trainingof professionals in this sector through theInternet as well as on-site.In the following sections we present the following:?
The Thetis scenario and the technologiesapplied?
Aspects of content adaptation?
the results of the users?
evaluation?
the lessons we have learned both regardingthe value of the technologies (including thelinguistics technologies), and the peda-3See  www.exills.com85gogical value of such an innovative ap-proach to language learning3 Thetis : scenario and linguistic tech-nologiesAs the general technical architecture behind Thetishas already been described in details in (Segondand Parmentier 2004) (Brun et Al.
2002) we justgive an overview of the entire system and concen-trate below on the description of the Thetis sce-nario and on the linguistic technologies that havebeen integrated into the system.Thetis integrates virtual reality and linguistic tech-nologies in a web application in order to propose atruly e-learning solution that can be used both syn-chronously and asynchronously.
Our motivationsfor applying these two components are the follow-ing:?
Virtual reality offers a cognitive contextand promotes interaction.?
Linguistic technologies offer autonomy tothe students by showing them concepts,giving them assistance to understand wordmeanings within particular contexts bypresenting various examples, providingfeedback on their skills (during chat ses-sions as well as through exercises or evenfree activities).The notion of scenario is central to Thetis.
Thescenario allows the users to act in typical worksituations such as introducing themselves, readingemails, searching for and understanding informa-tion, ordering a meal, and interacting with col-leagues and customers.
The lessons includetraditional contents such as grammar rules, exer-cises, and speech acts.
The users interact either viachatting or during the different activities proposed.The Thetis scenario has been explicitly designedfor people working at hotels?
reception desks.3.1 ScenarioStudents and tutors enter a virtual reality sceneeither all together at the same time (synchronously)or whenever they want (asynchronously).
They arethen in a virtual hotel where they are given rolesthat correspond to the different prototypical hotelsituations listed above.
All students have to playtheir everyday job, hotel desk receptionist.
Theyinteract with customers.
The tutors can choose therole they play: customers, fellow students or tutors.The resulting system can be used either individu-ally from any place with access to the Internet orcollectively, all or some students being in the samelocation (open class, hotel etc.
)The customers are robots and the students are ava-tars that work at the reception desk.The robots are 3D-human representations that havebeen programmed in advance.
They can invite us-ers to chat, react to certain stimuli such as prede-fined lists of words or movements of others in the3D-scene.The avatars are non-programmed 3D-human repre-sentations of users.
The users can decide where togo in the virtual scene, with whom they want tointeract, what to say.The application is composed of several virtualrooms.
Each of these rooms corresponds to a dif-ferent scenario related to the receptionists worktasks.The students?
avatars interact either with the robot-customers, or among themselves.
The language ofthe interactions is exclusively the language beinglearned i.e.
English, (which is automaticallychecked by the system).
In order to encourage in-teractions among the students and to strengthen theplayful aspect of the course, the students are askedto work in groups of two or three.
Each group oftwo or three students enter rooms at the same time,and interact individually with different robot cus-tomers.
Since they are in the same room they arealso able to communicate among themselves, in thelanguage they learn, when they have difficulties.The tutor can also be present.
There is a commonback room where all the students can go any timeto interact with the rest of the student group, be itbecause they need help or because the tutor asksfor a meeting.In order to call for interaction students and tutorscan either type text in the chat window or, in some86specific cases (previously defined in the scenario)record their answer and send the speech file to thetutor.The figure below is a snapshot of the different ac-tivities in the different virtual rooms.
Traditionallinguistic exercises, cards with grammar or speechact hints are associated to the activities of eachroom.In the Virtual World students always have accessto a phone, a fax, a reservation book, computers,documents internal to the hotel (regulations, menu,price lists, tourist information etc.
).During the different activities, the students interactwith robots that play different roles (customers,travel agents, taxi driver etc.).
Dialogues betweenstudents and robots work as follows: the studentstype some text in the chat box, and the robots replyorally.
Robot participations to dialogues are pre-recorded sound files.
The robots are configured toreply to stimuli like a new learner arriving in ascene asking for a private chat, etc.
For instance,when a student asks a question, the robot canautomatically select the most appropriate answer oraction based on the dialog?s steps or based onkeywords found in students?
written production.Examples:?Could you show/give me your identity card?
?would produce the action of displaying a win-dow with the image of an identity card.
?How long will you stay??
would produce ananswer like ?three nights?.When robots ask questions, the students?
answerscan be used (or not) to select the next move in thedialogue.Examples:Robot: ?Do all the rooms have an Internet con-nection??
Student: ?No?
would imply a specificnotice on the reservation fax to require an Inter-net connection.3.2 Linguistic TechnologiesIn terms of tools and resources available in the vir-tual world, the students have access to real hoteldocuments (including a list of hotel services, pricesand regulations, real identity documents from dif-ferent countries, etc.
)as well as to linguistic tech-nologies.The linguistic tools include the following:?
A comprehension help thatprovides students with themost appropriate contextualtranslation of any word or ex-pression.
Comprehension helpis crucial in speeding up boththe students?
comprehensionand written production.?
A linguistic tool box that pro-vides the students with cus-tomizable services whichallow them to parse and to tagtheir own production in orderto check its correctness.?
A morphological analyzer thatgives the students access toconjugations or declinations.?
A language guesser that auto-matically prevents students87from interacting in anotherlanguage than the one theylearn i.e.
English.4 Good quality contentThe other interest of Thetis is to create and adapt e-content to offer it on-line rather than on CD-ROM.One of the most difficult issues that e-learningfaces is global delivery, especially with the chal-lenges of localization and repackaging content fordifferent audiences.
Europe has been active in cre-ating high quality pedagogical content for yearsand is genuinely concerned about languages.Over the past few years, multimedia publishershave developed electronic content for languagelearning of very high pedagogical value and verygood quality.
With the arrival of e-learning, theysee their work changing and do not always havethe necessary expertise and resources to take thee-learning route.Indeed e-learning revolutionizes the training do-main as it provides personalized, real-time trainingand communications programs, rather than a ?onesize fits all?
approach.
To take advantage of thepotential of e-learning, multimedia publishers needto develop expertise in Internet technologies ingeneral.
To be able to put their content on-line theyneed to work in partnership with companies thathave Internet expertise and document processingtechnologies.
On the other hand, technology pro-viders in the area of e-learning have given verylittle attention to the quality of the content that willbe offered, to the pedagogical aspect of e-learningas well as to the question of what needs to bechanged in order to use the Internet to train people.Most of the e-learning companies have tried to sellplatforms to content providers rather than trying towork in partnership with them in order to creategood-quality e-learning solutions.
It is certainly notenough to integrate content that has been built foranother purpose (to teach in face to face meetingsfor example, or even for CD-ROM distribution)with technologies to make a good training module.Pedagogical aspects must be considered and tech-nologies should support pedagogy rather than be-ing the main objective.4.1 eContent adaptationThetis particularly concentrated on defining thevirtual environment and the content of the training,adapted to the needs of the employees in a hotelreception.The main functions of receptionists are presentinga positive image of the hotel and assisting with allaspects of guest service; they act as buffers be-tween the customers and management of the hotel.The training needed to take into account their mainduties, including the following:Answering enquiries regarding hotel servicesand registration by letter, telephone and in per-sonMaking room reservationsRegistering arriving guest and assigning roomsResponding to guests?
enquiries, requests andcomplaintsUsing computerized or manual systems tocompile and check daily record sheets, guestaccounts, receipts and vouchersPresenting statements of charges to departingguests and receiving paymentAdditional duties, which may be required bysmall hotels.It was also important to consider the skills neededby these kinds of workers, even when they need tocommunicate with customers in languages differ-ent from theirs.Good communication skills and a neat appearanceare essential for hotel receptionists.
They need ba-sic analytical skills and experience with wordprocessing equipment and computers.
Good judg-ment is necessary, as well as ability to solve prob-lems in a bold way and with determination, sincethey may have to deal with difficult people, as wellas with emergency and security problems.88But one of the best assets is the knowledge of, atleast one, second language.
To communicate flu-ently with customers in a foreign language, solveproblems and deal with complaints, turn them intoopportunities is the aim of this project, togetherwith the development of key competences for em-ployees working at hotel reception desks, such asefficiency, courtesy, initiative, capability of work-ing in team and communication skills, among oth-ers.What is different in Thetis, compared to ?tradi-tional CD-ROM content?
building are the scenar-ios through which the courses will be delivered tohotel receptionists.
So the content had to be appro-priate to the scenarios so that it is adapted to thelearning context, and it had to be localized follow-ing the target region of the training.The pedagogical content is realized on differentmedia like texts, audio support, and videotapes.For each medium different activities are availablein order that the students can practice a specificgrammar point, an idiomatic structure or phrase.There are several kinds of exercises each corre-sponding to a lexical area and/or speech act.
Thismeans that a student is immersed in a work situa-tion associated with specific difficulties in gram-mar and vocabulary and (s)he is provided withexercises helping to develop her/his competencies.The objective is not to find a typical situation inorder to learn a specific grammar point or an idio-matic structure.
The process is rather first to list thetypical work situations the hotel receptionists areconfronted with and afterwards to identify the lan-guage difficulties associated with each situationand, in a third time, to select the media, the con-tent, the type of activity that is the best suited tohelp the students to deal with the work situation.One other difficulty is to propose a sequence ofworking activities that also match with the lan-guage and vocabulary level of the student.Besides the scenario, the students are also providedwith some classical content in order to help themto meet the needs they could be confronted withoutside typical training situations.
Such classicalcontent is listed in the points below:?
a grammar book containing a list of allthe sentence patterns and forms that areused in the program with explanationsof their use and form;?
a lexicon with English headwords, ex-amples of usage and explanation ortranslation into native language.
Stu-dents also have the option of hearingthe pronunciation of new items;?
student records which allow students tomonitor their own progress,?
technical help in order to present thecharacteristics of the delivery web ap-plication.This existing content has been adapted to the tour-ism industryAlthough the basic content will be the same for alltarget audiences, the addition of elements that ap-peal directly to each target user group makes theproduct attractive and motivating.In terms of language practice, it is also possible toplace an emphasis on those items that cause par-ticular problems to specific language groups.As far as already existing content related to tour-ism scenarios is concerned, they had to be adaptedto our purposes: some pedagogical activities had tobe reversed because they had been developed inorder to help a customer, a tourist in our case, tointeract with other people i.e.
receptionists, wait-ers/waitresses, passers-by.
The main task was topropose mainly the same activities but for trainingreceptionists.5 Users?
testsThe content of the course focuses on teaching Eng-lish to hotel receptionists.
Therefore, the userswere faced with real situations that occur in hotelswithin the context of their everyday work envi-ronment.
The objective then was to test the coursewithin this target group in order to analyse its po-tential use, and possible adaptation to any socio-professional domain, as well as extension to anylanguage.The main elements of THETIS that needed to betested are the following:?
Technical issues: linguistic tools, virtualreality89?
Pedagogical effectiveness: quality of con-tent, game aspects, etc.?
Work related competencies: hotel envi-ronment and situations, level of interest,relevance, etc.There were two major groups of users involved inthese tests:?
Students?
Teachers or tutors.All students involved (18) are currently students ofa Hotel Management vocational training programorganised by the Andalusian Entrepreneurial Con-federation (CEA).The profile of the group was the following: 80%were between 20 and 24 years old, 20% were be-tween 25 and 30 years old.
All of them have a uni-versity degree in Tourism.
80% had previous workexperience in hotels or tourism related jobs.
50%had an intermediate competency level in English,17% low intermediate and 33% high intermediate.A team of 3 teachers was also involved in this test;one of them was present at the location of the testactivities and the other two were doing participatedfrom another country, which shows the flexibilitythat distance learning offers.Each session followed the same structure:?
Presentation of the three partners.?
Presentation of the THETIS project.?
Goals and objectives of the session.?
Explanation of the different elements ofTHETIS:o Chato Virtual Realityo Dictionaryo Verb conjugationo Historyo Noteso Grammaro ExercisesAfter the initial explanations, the session continuedby proposing different activities in which the stu-dents had to do the following:?
Chatting among students - learninggames.
A reservation form had to be filledout.
Each form contained some informa-tion of different customers.
We assignedone specific guest to each student, so theyhad to discuss and ask each other about themissing data.?
Chatting with the teacher - role playingexercises.
The teacher acted as a customerand started different dialogs with the stu-dents based on typical hotel situations suchas making reservations or asking for direc-tions.?
Exercises.
The students were given time topractise four categories of exercises: read-ing comprehension, grammar, listeningand vocabulary.?
Interacting with the robots.
The studentshad to take part of the pre-set dialogs withthe customer-robots at the virtual realityscenario and choose the right answer inevery situation.Once the testing activities described were finished,the students were asked to write their comments byanswering a complete questionnaireMost of the students agreed that using this programcontinuously as part of complete language trainingwould be very beneficial.
Some students appreci-ated most that it helped remember expressions andvocabulary they had learnt before, so it was goodpractice.
Most of them acknowledged the acquisi-tion of the specific language used in hotels and theexpressions needed in situations that occur at thefront desk.Regarding the scenario itself all students consid-ered that what happens in a hotel and the dailyfunctions that a receptionist must carry out are very90well represented.
Some typical appreciations arethe following:?It is a very creative way to reflect the differentsituations happening in a hotel?
?Doing different things at the same time is verycommon at hotels and getting to learn English byhaving the same experience is crucial?
?It is good that we get to see the nice things thatnormally happen but also the not so nice ones, likedealing with upset customers?Basically, the main advantages of THETIS appearto be how realistic the situations are, the entertain-ing and fun part of learning and the interactionwith the teacher and the other students.As for the weaknesses, these appear to be related tothe fact that Thetis is still a pilot product and sometechnical and content details have yet to be final-ized.Regarding the elements the testers found most use-ful during the learning process, we found a broadrange of answers and every tool was named.
Re-garding the linguistic technologies students men-tioned the contextual dictionary look-up as the onethey made the most use of.
However, the elementsthat received a higher appreciation were the inter-action with robots (virtual reality) and with theteacher (chat), because of the entertaining aspectthey both bring, the realistic feature they portray aswell as their practical application.In order to have a complete and enriched informa-tion report, we asked for the teachers?
opinion aswell.It was perceived that through this program studentsare given different ways to consolidate what theylearn which makes it quite efficient.
It is also im-portant to say that there is a clear need to haveteacher-student interactions to make it more suc-cessful pedagogically, since this element gives thestudents the opportunity to use free and authenticlanguage and to be corrected in real time.Since interactions between the teacher and the stu-dents are allowed through chat - which is some-thing the students enjoyed a lot - it was remarkedthat the teacher needs to have the possibility to cor-rect mistakes.
So for this tool to be more usefuland not damaging the role-playing situation, thereis a need to find a way to send the students thatfeedback, for example, by making it appear in an-other color.It is also important to prepare different possiblescenarios/exercises for the teachers to developthrough the chat.
Therefore, it appears important toprepare a teacher?s guide.6 Conclusion: lessons learnedIn general, we found that the creation of contentfor a Thetis like type of concept was not a trivialand easy task.
Indeed Thetis provides a solutionthat is strongly web oriented in the sense that itinsists on interaction on the web, personalizationand information access.
As a consequence the typeof content that fits these requirements is radicallydifferent from ones that already exist for other sup-ports such as, for instance, CD-ROMs.
We did notexpect this adaptation to be so time consuming.
Itturns out that while a ?traditional?
type of CD-ROM content can be integrated in the form of ex-ercises within the Thetis solution, it is necessary tobuild new types of content in the form of scenarios.Indeed the notion of a scenario, which is central toThetis as well as its strong point, means one thatcovers both learning a language and learning awork practice.
This scenario should also be attrac-tive and evolving enough so that it retains students?interest and motivation.
The borderline is some-times difficult: we need to be careful not only topropose games where students learn how to dotheir work but not so much how to speak a lan-guage.
Moreover, the scenarios, since they takeplace on the web and in a virtual world, cannot belike the ones that are proposed in a face to facecourse.
Interaction is different.
Robots plays a cen-tral role in pushing people to interact with eachother, and so does the tutor.
How to make the bestpedagogical use of these two aspects?
What is thetype of dialogues that work better in terms ofpedagogical purposes?During the testing we had had various commentson the specific features offered by the system aswell as suggestions for improving it; all of themwould need to be further tested.
These suggestions91come from different perspectives: from the tutorsand from the students.As far as the tutors are concerned, while they findthe idea really interesting pedagogically, they alsogenerally consider it difficult to interact with sev-eral students at the same time.
For instance correct-ing several students in the chat is almostimpossible.
Therefore they ask for tools to helpthem in this process.
These tools would be like theones that already exist in current management sys-tems courses, and they would have to be enrichedwith some specific functions to deal with on-lineinteraction.
Teachers usually liked a lot the lan-guage guesser module as it forces students to inter-act in the language they learn and relieve themfrom checking that students do not interact in theirown language.On the opposite side, the students liked and used alot the contextual on-line dictionary because theyreally want to play and interact and are forced todo so in the foreign language.
The students defini-tively liked the virtual reality and the game aspect.The strongest point of Thetis is undoubtedly theinteractions based on a virtual reality scenario ascompared to e-mail interactions, chats or forums.Probably owing to the virtual world shy peopletend to participate much more than usual.
This isalso the feedback that we got from tutors concern-ing their students.While students enjoyed the game very much, thiswould need to be tested on the long run as Thetiscertainly benefits from the ?novelty effect?.Both teachers and students would like to be able tospeak rather than just to write.
However, it is notclear how this type of interaction would be possi-ble in virtual reality with 15 people not being ableto see each other.
During the project, we identifiedstrong points as well as difficulties and gaps.
Themain difficulty is in the type of content that fitsThetis?
philosophy.
Indeed, building such contentrequires more time than we first expected.
Whilepart of the content can be just repurposed and lo-calized from already existing materials, a com-pletely new type of content needs also to becreated from scratch.
Users made interesting sug-gestions regarding the integration of new technolo-gies such as speech processing or tools for thetutors.
These would require further testing.ReferencesBrun C., Parmentier T., Sandor A., Segond F., 2002,Les outils de TAL au service de la e-formation inMultilinguisme et le traitement de l'information, Fr?-d?rique Segond Ed., Herm?s, pp.
223-251Frase, L., R. Almond, J. Burstein, K. Kukich, R.Mislevy, K. Sheehan, L. Steinberg, and K. Singleyand M. Chodorow.
(2002).
In H. O'Neill and R.
Perez(Eds.)
Technology Applications In Education: ALearning View.
Lawrence ErlbaumKashny M., Les usages des Technologies d'Informationet de Communication par des enseignants dans undispositif de formation tutor?e en langues vivantes?trang?res.
Une approche ergonomique.
Th?se Uni-versit?
Pierre Mend?s France, 2001, Grenoble.Kearns M., Satinder Singh C., Litman D., and Howe.J.CobotDS, 2002: A Spoken Dialogue System forChat.
In Proceedings of the Eighteenth NationalConference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-2002),Edmonton, Canada.Kindley, R., Scenario-Based E-Learning: A Step Be-yond Traditional E-Learning,http://www.learningcircuits.com/2002/may2002/kindley.htmlKukich, K , 1992, Technique for automatically correct-ing words in text, ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR)Volume 24 ,  Issue 4,  ( 377 ?
439)Paulsen, J.
(2001-section 4).
"Authentic Online TargetLanguage Reference Resources."
New Era Trendsand  Technologies in Foreign Language Learning: AnAnnotated Bibliography - Interactive MultimediaElectronic Journal of  Computer-Enhanced Learn-ing, April 2001, Wake Forest University.Puren, C. Histoire des m?thodologies de l'enseignementdes langues , Cl?
International, Nathan, 1988, Paris.Segond F, Parmentier T, 2004 NLP serving the cause oflanguage learning Proceeding of International Work-shop on eLearning for Computational Linguisticsand Computational Linguistics for eLearningCOLING , Geneva92
