Proceedings of the Second ACL Workshop on Effective Tools and Methodologies for Teaching NLP and CL, pages 49?56,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsNatural Language Processing at the School of Information Studies for AfricaBjo?rn Gamba?ckUserware LaboratorySwedish Institute of Computer ScienceBox 1263, SE?164 29 Kista, Swedengamback@sics.seGunnar ErikssonDepartment of LinguisticsStockholm UniversitySE?106 91 Stockholm, Swedengunnar@ling.su.seAthanassia FourlaSwedish Program for ICT in Developing RegionsRoyal Institute of Technology/KTHForum 100, SE?164 40 Kista, Swedenafourla@dsv.su.seAbstractThe lack of persons trained in computa-tional linguistic methods is a severe obsta-cle to making the Internet and computersaccessible to people all over the world intheir own languages.
The paper discussesthe experiences of designing and teach-ing an introductory course in Natural Lan-guage Processing to graduate computerscience students at Addis Ababa Univer-sity, Ethiopia, in order to initiate the ed-ucation of computational linguists in theHorn of Africa region.1 IntroductionThe development of tools and methods for languageprocessing has so far concentrated on a fairly smallnumber of languages and mainly on the ones usedin the industrial part of the world.
However, thereis a potentially even larger need for investigating theapplication of computational linguistic methods tothe languages of the developing countries: the num-ber of computer and Internet users of these coun-tries is growing, while most people do not speak theEuropean and East-Asian languages that the com-putational linguistic community has so far mainlyconcentrated on.
Thus there is an obvious need todevelop a wide range of applications in vernacularlanguages, such as translation systems, spelling andgrammar checkers, speech synthesis and recogni-tion, information retrieval and filtering, and so forth.But who will develop those systems?
A prerequisiteto the creation of NLP applications is the educationand training of computer professionals skilled in lo-calisation and development of language processingresources.
To this end, the authors were invited toconduct a course in Natural Language Processing atthe School of Information Studies for Africa, AddisAbaba University, Ethiopia.
As far as we know, thiswas the first computational linguistics course givenin Ethiopia and in the entire Horn of Africa region.There are several obstacles to progress in lan-guage processing for new languages.
Firstly, the par-ticulars of a language itself might force new strate-gies to be developed.
Secondly, the lack of alreadyavailable language processing resources and toolscreates a vicious circle: having resources makes pro-ducing resources easier, but not having resourcesmakes the creation and testing of new ones more dif-ficult and time-consuming.Thirdly, there is often a disturbing lack of interest(and understanding) of the needs of people to be ableto use their own language in computer applications?
a lack of interest in the surrounding world, butalso sometimes even in the countries where a lan-guage is used (?Aren?t those languages going to beextinct in 50?100 years anyhow??
and ?Our com-pany language is English?
are common comments).And finally, we have the problem that the coursedescribed in this paper mainly tries to address, thelack of skilled professionals and researchers withknowledge both of language processing techniquesand of the domestic language(s) in question.49The rest of the paper is laid out as follows: The nextsection discusses the language situation in Ethiopiaand some of the challenges facing those trying to in-troduce NLP methods in the country.
Section 3 givesthe background of the students and the university,before Section 4 goes into the effects these factorshad on the way the course was designed.The sections thereafter describe the actual coursecontent, with Section 5 being devoted to the lecturesof the first half of the course, on general linguisticsand word level processing; Section 6 is on the sec-ond set of lectures, on higher level processing andapplications; while Section 7 is on the hands-on ex-ercises we developed.
The evaluation of the courseand of the students?
performance is the topic of Sec-tion 8, and Section 9 sums up the experiences andnovelties of the course and the effects it has so farhad on introducing NLP in Ethiopia.2 Languages and NLP in EthiopiaEthiopia was the only African country that managedto avoid being colonised during the big Europeanpower struggles over the continent during the 19thcentury.
While the languages of the former colonialpowers dominate the higher educational system andgovernment in many other countries, it would thusbe reasonable to assume that Ethiopia would havebeen using a vernacular language for these purposes.However, this is not the case.
After the removalof the Dergue junta, the Constitution of 1994 di-vided Ethiopia into nine fairly independent regions,each with its own ?nationality language?, but withAmharic being the language for countrywide com-munication.
Until 1994, Amharic was also the prin-cipal language of literature and medium of instruc-tion in primary and secondary schools, but highereducation in Ethiopia has all the time been carriedout in English (Bloor and Tamrat, 1996).The reason for adopting English as the LinguaFranca of higher education is primarily the linguis-tic diversity of the country (and partially also an ef-fect of the fact that British troops liberated Ethiopiafrom a brief Italian occupation during the SecondWorld War).
With some 70 million inhabitants,Ethiopia is the third most populous African countryand harbours more than 80 different languages ?exactly how many languages there are in a countryis as much a political as a linguistic issue; the countof languages of Ethiopia and Eritrea together thusdiffers from 70 up to 420, depending on the source;with, for example, the Ethnologue (Gordon, 2005)listing 89 different ones.Half-a-dozen languages have more than 1 millionspeakers in Ethiopia; three of these are dominant:the language with most speakers today is probablyOromo, a Cushitic language spoken in the south andcentral parts of the country and written using theLatin alphabet.
However, Oromo has not reachedthe same political status as the two large Semiticlanguages Tigrinya and Amharic.
Tigrinya is spo-ken in Northern Ethiopia and is the official lan-guage of neighbouring Eritrea; Amharic is spokenin most parts of the country, but predominantly inthe Eastern, Western, and Central regions.
Oromoand Amharic are probably two of the five largest lan-guages on the continent; however, with the dramaticpopulation size changes in many African coun-tries in recent years, this is difficult to determine:Amharic is estimated to be the mother tongue ofmore than 17 million people, with at least an addi-tional 5 million second language speakers.As Semitic languages, Amharic and Tigrinya aredistantly related to Arabic and Hebrew; the two lan-guages themselves are probably about as close asare Spanish and Portuguese (Bloor, 1995).
Speak-ers of Amharic and Tigrinya are mainly OrthodoxChristians and the languages draw common rootsto the ecclesiastic Ge?ez still used by the CopticChurch.
Both languages use the Ge?ez (Ethiopic)script, written horizontally and left-to-right (in con-trast to many other Semitic languages).
WrittenGe?ez can be traced back to at least the 4th centuryA.D.
The first versions of the script included con-sonants only, while the characters in later versionsrepresent consonant-vowel pairs.
Modern Amharicwords have consonantal roots with vowel variationexpressing difference in interpretation.Several computer fonts have been developed forthe Ethiopic script, but for many years the languageshad no standardised computer representation.
Aninternational standard for the script was agreed ononly in year 1998 and later incorporated into Uni-code, but nationally there are still about 30 differ-ent ?standards?
for the script, making localisation oflanguage processing systems and digital resources50difficult; and even though much digital informationis now being produced in Ethiopia, no deep-rootedculture of information exchange and disseminationhas been established.
In addition to the digital di-vide, several other factors have contributed to thissituation, including lack of library facilities and cen-tral resource sites, inadequate resources for digitalproduction of journals and books, and poor docu-mentation and archive collections.
The difficultiesof accessing information have led to low expecta-tions and consequently under-utilisation of existinginformation resources (Furzey, 1996).UNESCO (2001) classifies Ethiopia among thecountries with ?moribund or seriously endangeredtongues?.
However, the dominating languages ofthe country are not under immediate threat, and seri-ous efforts have been made in the last years to buildand maintain linguistic resources in Amharic: a lotof work has been carried out mainly by EthiopianTelecom, Ethiopian Science and Technology Com-mission and Addis Ababa University, as well as byEthiopian students abroad, in particular in Germany,Sweden and the United States.
Except for some ini-tial efforts for the related Tigrinya, work on otherEthiopian languages has so far been scarce or non-existent ?
see Alemu et al (2003) or Eyassu andGamba?ck (2005) for short overviews of the effortsthat have been made to date to develop language pro-cessing tools for Amharic.One of the reasons for fostering research in lan-guage processing in Ethiopia was that the exper-tise of a pool of researchers in the country wouldcontribute to maintaining those Ethiopian languagesthat are in danger of extinction today.
Startingwith Amharic and developing a robust linguistic re-source base in the country, together with includingthe Amharic language in modern language process-ing tools could create the critical mass of experience,which is necessary in order to expand to other ver-nacular languages, too.Moreover, the development of those conditionsthat lay the foundations for language and speechprocessing research and development in the countrywould prevent potential brain drain from Ethiopia;instead of most language processing work beingdone by Ethiopian students abroad (at present), inthe future it could be done by students, researchersand professionals inside the country itself.3 Infrastructure and Student BodyAddis Ababa University (AAU) is Ethiopia?s old-est, largest and most prestigious university.
The De-partment of Information Science (formerly Schoolof Information Studies for Africa) at the Faculty ofInformatics conducts a two-year Master?s Program.The students admitted to the program come fromall over the country and have fairly diverse back-grounds.
All have a four-year undergraduate degree,but not necessarily in any computer science-relatedsubject.
However, most of the students have beenworking with computers for some time after theirunder-graduate studies.
Those admitted to the pro-gram are mostly among the top students of Ethiopia,but some places are reserved for public employees.The initiative of organising a language process-ing course as part of the Master?s Program camefrom the students themselves: several students ex-pressed interest in writing theses on speech and lan-guage subjects, but the faculty acknowledged thatthere was a severe lack of staff qulified to teach thecourse.
In fact, all of the university is under-staffed,while admittance to the different graduate programshas been growing at an enormous speed; by 400%only in the last two years.
There was already anICT support program in effect between AAU andSAREC, the Department for Research Cooperationat the Swedish International Development Coopera-tion Agency.
This cooperation was used to establishcontacts with Stockholm University and the SwedishInstitute of Computer Science, that both had experi-ence in developing computational linguistic courses.Information Science is a modern department withcontemporary technology.
It has two computer labswith PCs having Internet access and lecture roomswith all necessary aids.
A library supports the teach-ing work and is accessible both to students and staff.The only technical problems encountered arose fromthe frequent power failures in the country that cre-ated difficulties in teaching and/or loss of data.
In-ternet access in the region is also often slow and un-reliable.
However, as a result of the SAREC ICTsupport program, AAU is equipped with both an in-ternal network and with broadband connection to theoutside world.
The central computer facilities areprotected from power failures by generators, but theindividual departments have no such back-up.514 Course DesignThe main aim of the course plan was to introducethe students successfully to the main subjects of lan-guage and speech processing and trigger their inter-est in further investigation.
Several factors were im-portant when choosing the course materials and de-ciding on the content and order of the lectures andexercises, in particular the fact that the students didnot have a solid background in either Computer Sci-ence or Linguistics, and the time limitations as thecourse could only last for ten weeks.
As a result, acurriculum with a holistic view of NLP was built inthe form of a ?crash course?
(with many lectures andlabs per week, often having to use Saturdays too)aiming at giving as much knowledge as possible ina very short time.The course was designed before the team travelledto Ethiopia, but was fine-tuned in the field based onthe day-by-day experience and interaction with thestudents: even though the lecturers had some knowl-edge of the background and competence of the stu-dents, they obviously would have to be flexible andable to adjust the course set-up, paying attensionboth to the specific background knowledge of thestudents and to the students?
particular interests andexpectations on the course.From the outset, it was clear that, for example,very high programming skills could not be taken forgranted, as given that this is not in itself a require-ment for being admitted to the Master?s Program.On the other hand, it was also clear that some suchknowledge could be expected, this course would bethe last of the program, just before the students wereto start working on their theses; and several labora-tory exercises were developed to give the studentshands-on NLP experience.Coming to a department as external lecturers isalso in general tricky and makes it more difficult toknow what actual student skill level to expect.
Thelecturer team had quite extensive previous experi-ences of giving external courses this way (in Swedenand Finland) and thus knew that ?the home depart-ment?
often tends to over-estimate the knowledge oftheir students; another good reason for trying to beas flexible as possible in the course design.
and forlistening carefully to the feedback from the studentsduring the course.The need for flexibility was, however, somewhatcounter-acted by the long geographical distance andtime constraints.
It was necessary to give the coursein about two months time only, and with one of thelecturers present during the first half of the courseand the other two during the second half, with someoverlap in the middle.
Thus the course was split intotwo main parts, the first concentrating on general lin-guistic issues, morphology and lexicology, and thesecond on syntax, semantics and application areas.The choice of reading was influenced by the neednot to assume very elaborated student programmingskills.
This ruled out books based mainly on pro-gramming exercises, such as Pereira and Shieber(1987) and Gazdar and Mellish (1989), and it wasdecided to use Jurafsky and Martin (2000) as themain text of the course.
The extensive web pageprovided by those authors was also a factor, since itcould not be assumed that the students would havefull-time access to the actual course book itself.
Thecosts of buying a regular computer science book isnormally too high for the average Ethiopian student.To partially ease the financial burden on the stu-dents, we brought some copies of the book with usand made those available at the department library.We also tried to make sure that as much as possibleof the course material was available on the web.
Inaddition to the course book we used articles on spe-cific lecture topics particularly material on Amharic,for which we also created a web page devoted to on-line Amharic resources and publications.The following sections briefly describe the differ-ent parts of the course and the laboratory exercises.The course web page contains the complete coursematerials including the slides from the lectures andthe resources and programs used for the exercises:www.sics.se/humle/ile/kurser/Addis5 Linguistics and word level processingThe aim of the first part of the course was to give thestudents a brief introduction to Linguistics and hu-man languages, and to introduce common methodsto access, manipulate, and analyse language data atthe word and phrase levels.
In total, this part con-sisted of seven lectures that were accompanied bythree hands-on exercises in the computer laboratory.525.1 Languages: particularities and structureThe first two lectures presented the concept of ahuman language.
The lectures focused around fivequestions: What is language?
What is the ecolog-ical situation of the world?s languages and of themain languages of Ethiopia?
What differences arethere between languages?
What makes spoken andwritten modalities of language different?
How arehuman languages built up?The second lecture concluded with a discussion ofwhat information you would need to build a certainNLP application for a language such as Amharic.5.2 Phonology and writing systemsPhonology and writing systems were addressed ina lecture focusing on the differences between writ-ing systems.
The SERA standard for transliteratingEthiopic script into Latin characters was presented.These problems were also discussed in a lab class.5.3 MorphologyAfter a presentation of general morphological con-cepts, the students were given an introduction tothe morphology of Amharic.
As a means of hand-ling morphology, regular languages/expressions andfinite-state methods were presented and their limi-tations when processing non-agglutinative morphol-ogy were discussed.
The corresponding lab exerciseaimed at describing Amharic noun morphology us-ing regular expressions.In all, the areas of phonology and morphologywere allotted two lectures and about five lab classes.5.4 Words, phrases and POS-taggingUnder this heading the students were acquaintedwith word level phenomena during two lectures.
To-kenisation problems were discussed and the conceptof dependency relations introduced.
This led onto the introduction of the phrase-level and N-grammodels of syntax.
As examples of applications us-ing this kind of knowledge, different types of part-of-speech taggers using local syntactic informationwere discussed.
The corresponding lab exercise,spanning four lab classes, aimed at building N-grammodels for use in such a system.The last lecture of the first part of the courseaddressed lexical semantics with a quick glance atword sense ambiguation and information retrieval.6 Applications and higher level processingThe second part of the course started with anoverview lecture on natural language processingsystems and finished off by a final feedback lecture,in which the course and the exam were summarisedand students could give overall feedback on the totalcourse contents and requirements.The overview lecture addressed the topic of whatmakes up present-day language processing systems,using the metaphor of Douglas Adams?
Babel fish(Adams, 1979): ?What components do we need tobuild a language processing system performing thetasks of the Babel fish??
?
to translate unrestrictedspeech in one language to another language ?
withGamba?ck (1999) as additional reading material.In all, the second course part consisted of nineregular lectures, two laboratory exercises, and thefinal evaluation lecture.6.1 Machine TranslationThe first main application area introduced was Ma-chine Translation (MT).
The instruction consistedof two 3-hour lectures during which the followingsubjects were presented: definitions and history ofmachine translation; different types of MT systems;paradigms of functional MT systems and translationmemories today; problems, terminology, dictionar-ies for MT; other kinds of translation aids; a briefoverview of the MT market; MT users, evaluation,and application of MT systems in real life.
Parts ofArnold et al (1994) complemented the course book.There was no obligatory assignment in this partof the course, but the students were able to try outand experiment with online machine translation sys-tems.
Since there is no MT system for Amharic, theyused their knowledge of other languages (German,French, English, Italian, etc.)
to experience the useof automatic translation tools.6.2 Syntax and parsingThree lectures and one laboratory exercise were de-voted to parsing and the representation of syntax,and to some present-day syntactic theories.
After in-troducing basic context-free grammars, DependencyGrammar was taken as an example of a theory un-derlying many current shallow processing systems.Definite Clause Grammar, feature structures, the53concept of unification, and subcategorisation werediscussed when moving on to more deeper-level,unification-based grammars.In order to give the students an understanding ofthe parsing problem, both processing of artificial andnatural languages was discussed, as well as humanlanguage processing, in the view of Kimball (1973).Several types of parsers were introduced, with in-creasing complexity: top-down and bottom-up pars-ing; parsing with well-formed substring tables andcharts; head-first parsing and LR parsing.6.3 Semantics and discourseComputational semantics and pragmatics were cov-ered in two lectures.
The first lecture introducedthe basic tools used in current approaches to se-mantic processing, such as lexicalisation, compo-sitionality and syntax-driven semantic analysis, to-gether with different ways of representing meaning:first-order logic, model-based and lambda-based se-mantics.
Important sources of semantic ambiguity(quantifiers, for example) were discussed togetherwith the solutions allowed by using underspecifiedsemantic representations.The second lecture continued the semantic repre-sentation thread by moving on to how a completediscourse may be displayed in a DRS, a DiscourseRepresentation Structure, and how this may be usedto solve problems like reference resolution.
Dia-logue and user modelling were introduced, coveringseveral current conversational systems, with Zue andGlass (2000) and Wilks and Catizone (2000) as extrareading material.6.4 Speech technologyThe final lecture before the exam was the only onedevoted to speech technology and spoken languagetranslation systems.
Some problems in current spo-ken dialogue systems were discussed, while text-to-speech synthesis and multimodal synthesis were justbriefly touched upon.
The bulk of the lecture con-cerned automatic speech recognition: the parts andarchitectures of state-of-the-art speech recognitionsystems, Bayes?
rule, acoustic modeling, languagemodeling, and search strategies, such as Viterbi andA-star were introduced, as well as attempts to buildrecognition systems based on hybrids between Hid-den Markov Models and Artificial Neural Networks.7 Laboratory ExercisesEven though we knew before the course that the stu-dents?
actual programming skills were not extensive,we firmly believe that the best way to learn Compu-tational Linguistics is by hands-on experience.
Thusa substantial part of the course was devoted to a setof laboratory exercises, which made up almost halfof the overall grade on the course.Each exercise was designed so that there was an(almost obligatory) short introductory lecture on thetopic and the requirements of the exercise, followedby several opportunities for the students to work onthe exercise in the computer lab under supervisionfrom the lecturer.
To pass, the students both hadto show a working system solving the set problemand hand in a written solution/explanation.
Studentswere allowed to work together on solving the prob-lem, while the textual part had to be handed in byeach student individually, for grading purposes.7.1 Labs 1?3: Word level processingThe laboratory exercises during the first half of thecourse were intended to give the students hands-on experience of simple language processing usingstandard UNIX tools and simple Perl scripts.
Theplatform was cygwin,1 a freeware UNIX-like envi-ronment for Windows.
The first two labs focusedon regular expressions and the exercises includedsearching using ?grep?, simple text preprocessing us-ing ?sed?, and building a (rather simplistic) modelof Amharic noun morphology using regular expres-sions in (template) Perl scripts.
The third lab exer-cise was devoted to the construction of probabilis-tic N-gram data from text corpora.
Again standardUNIX tools were used.Due to the students?
lack of experience with thistype of computer processing, more time than ex-pected was spent on acquainting them with theUNIX environment during the first lab excercises.7.2 Labs 4?5: Higher level processingThe practical exercises during the second half ofthe course consisted of a demo and trial of on-linemachine translation systems, and two obligatory as-signments, on grammars and parsing and on seman-tics and discourse, respectively.
Both these exercises1www.cygwin.com54consisted of two parts and were carried out in the(freeware) SWI-Prolog framework.2In the first part of the fourth lab exercise, thestudents were to familiarise themselves with basicgrammars by trying out and testing parsing with asmall context-free grammar.
The assignments thenconsisted in extending this grammar both to add cov-erage and to restrict it (to stop ?leakage?).
Thesecond part of the lab was related to parsing.
Thestudents received parsers encoding several differentstrategies: top-down, bottom-up, well-formed sub-string tables, head parsing, and link parsing (a linkparser improves a bottom-up parser in a similar wayas a WFST parser improves a top-down parser, bysaving partial parses).
The assignments includedcreating a test corpus for the parsers, running theparsers on the corpus, and trying to determine whichof the parsers gave the best performance (and why).The assignments of the fifth lab were on lambda-based semantics and the problems arising in a gram-mar when considering left-recursion and ambiguity.The lab also had a pure demo part where the studentstried out Johan Bos?
?Discourse Oriented Represen-tation and Inference System?, DORIS.38 Course Evaluation and GradingThe students were encouraged from the beginningto interact with the lecturers and to give feedbackon teaching and evaluation issues.
With the aim ofcoming up with the best possible assessment strat-egy ?
in line with suggestions in work reviewed byElwood and Klenowski (2002), three meetings withthe students took place at the beginning, the middle,and end of the course.
In these meetings, studentsand lecturers together discussed the assessment cri-teria, the form of the exam, the percentage of thegrade that each part of the exam would bear, andsome examples of possible questions.This effort to better reflect the objectives of thecourse resulted in the following form of evaluation:the five exercises of the previous section were given,with the first one carrying 5% of the total coursegrade, the other four 10% each, and an additionalwritten exam (consisting of thirteen questions fromthe whole curriculum taught) 55%.2www.swi-prolog.org3www.cogsci.ed.ac.uk/?jbos/dorisWhile correcting the exams, the lecturers tried tobear in mind that this was the first acquaintance ofthe students with NLP.
Given the restrictions on thecourse, the results were quite positive, as none of thestudents taking the exam failed the course.
After themarking of the exams an assessment meeting withall the students and the lecturers was held, duringwhich each question of the exam was explained to-gether with the right answer.
The evaluation of thegroup did not present particular problems.
For grad-ing, the American system was used according to thestandards of Addis Ababa University (i.e., with thegrades ?A+?, ?A?, ..., ?F?
).9 ResultsExcept for the contents of the course, the main inno-vation for the Information Science students was thatthe bulk of the course reading list and relevant ma-terials were available online.
The students were ableto access the materials according to their own needs?
in terms of time schedule ?
and download andprint it without having to go to the library to copybooks and papers.Another feature of the on-line availability was thatafter the end of the course and as the teaching teamleft the country, the supervision of the students?
the-ses was carried out exclusively through the Internetby e-mail and chat.
The final papers with the signa-tures of the supervisors were even sent electronicallyto the department.
The main difficulty that had to beovercome concerned the actual writing of the theses;the students were not very experienced in producingacademic text and required some distance training,through comments and suggestions, on the subject.The main results of the course were that, basedstrictly on the course aims, students were success-fully familiarised with the notion of NLP.
This alsoled to eight students choosing to write their Mas-ter theses on speech and language issues: two onspeech technology, on text-to-speech synthesis forTigrinya and on speech recognition for Amharic;three on Amharic information access, on informa-tion filtering, on information retrieval and text cat-egorisation, and on automatic text summarisation;one on customisation of a prototype English-to-Amharic transfer-based machine translation system;one on predictive SMS (Short Message Service) text55input for Amharic; and one on Amharic part-of-speech tagging.
Most of these were supervised fromStockholm by the NLP course teaching team, withsupport from the teaching staff in Addis Ababa.As a short-term effect, several scientific paperswere generated by the Master theses efforts.
Asa more lasting effect, a previously fairly unknownfield was not only tapped, but also triggered the stu-dents?
interest for further research.
Another impor-tant result was the strengthening of the connectionsbetween Ethiopian and Swedish academia, with on-going collaboration and supervision, also of studentsfrom later batches.
Still, the most important long-term effect may have been indirect: triggered by thesuccess of the course, the Addis Ababa Faculty ofInformatics in the spring of 2005 decided to estab-lish a professorship in Natural Language Processing.10 AcknowledgmentsThanks to the staff and students at the Departmentof Information Science, Addis Ababa University,in particular Gashaw Kebede, Kinfe Tadesse, SabaAmsalu, and Mesfin Getachew; and to Lars Askerand Atelach Alemu at Stockholm University.This NLP course was funded by the Faculty ofInformatics at Addis Ababa University and the ICTsupport program of SAREC, the Department forResearch Cooperation at Sida, the Swedish Inter-national Development Cooperation Agency.ReferencesDouglas Adams.
1979.
The Hitch-Hiker?s Guide to theGalaxy.
Pan Books, London, England.Atelach Alemu, Lars Asker, and Mesfin Getachew.
2003.Natural language processing for Amharic: Overviewand suggestions for a way forward.
In Proceedingsof the 10th Conference on Traitement Automatique desLangues Naturelles, volume 2, pages 173?182, Batz-sur-Mer, France, June.Douglas Arnold, Lorna Balkan, Siety Meijer, R. LeeHumphreys, and Louisa Sadler.
1994.
Machine Trans-lation: An Introductory Guide.
Blackwells-NCC,London, England.Thomas Bloor and Wondwosen Tamrat.
1996.
Issuesin Ethiopian language policy and education.
Jour-nal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development,17(5):321?337.Thomas Bloor.
1995.
The Ethiopic writing system: aprofile.
Journal of the Simplified Spelling Society,19:30?36.Jannette Elwood and Val Klenowski.
2002.
Creatingcommunities of shared practice: the challenges of as-sessment use in learning and teaching.
Assessment &Evaluation in Higher Education, 27(3):243?256.Samuel Eyassu and Bjo?rn Gamba?ck.
2005.
ClassifyingAmharic news text using Self-Organizing Maps.
InACL 2005 Workshop on Computational Approaches toSemitic Languages, Ann Arbor, Michigan, June.
ACL.Jane Furzey.
1996.
Enpowering socio-economic devel-opment in Africa utilizing information technology.
Acountry study for the United Nations Economic Com-mission for Africa (UNECA), African Studies Center,University of Pennsylvania.Bjo?rn Gamba?ck.
1999.
Human language technology:The Babel fish.
Technical Report T99-09, SICS,Stockholm, Sweden, November.Gerald Gazdar and Chris Mellish.
1989.
Natural Lan-guage Processing in Prolog.
Addison-Wesley, Wok-ingham, England.Raymond G. Gordon, Jr, editor.
2005.
Ethnologue: Lan-guages of the World.
SIL International, Dallas, Texas,15 edition.Daniel Jurafsky and James H. Martin.
2000.
Speechand Language Processing: An Introduction to Natu-ral Language Processing, Computational Linguistics,and Speech Recognition.
Prentice Hall, Upper SaddleRiver, New Jersey.John Kimball.
1973.
Seven principles of surfacestructure parsing in natural languages.
Cognition,2(1):15?47.Fernando C. N. Pereira and Stuart M. Shieber.
1987.Prolog and Natural Language Analysis.
Number 10in Lecture Notes.
CSLI, Stanford, California.Yorick Wilks and Roberta Catizone.
2000.
Human-computer conversation.
In Encyclopedia of Microcom-puters.
Dekker, New York, New York.Stephen Wurm, editor.
2001.
Atlas of the World?s Lan-guages in Danger of Disappearing.
The United Na-tions Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization(UNESCO), Paris, France, 2 edition.Victor Zue and James Glass.
2000.
Conversational inter-faces: Advances and challenges.
Proceedings of theIEEE, 88(8):1166?1180.56
