Proceedings of the Workshop on Frontiers in Corpus Annotation II: Pie in the Sky, pages 53?60,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsAnnotating Attributions and Private StatesTheresa WilsonIntelligent Systems ProgramUniversity of PittsburghPittsburgh, PA 15260twilson@cs.pitt.eduJanyce WiebeDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of PittsburghPittsburgh, PA 15260wiebe@cs.pitt.eduAbstractThis paper describes extensions to a corpusannotation scheme for the manual annotationof attributions, as well as opinions, emotions,sentiments, speculations, evaluations and otherprivate states in language.
It discusses thescheme with respect to the ?Pie in the Sky?Check List of Desirable Semantic Informationfor Annotation.
We believe that the scheme is agood foundation for adding private state anno-tations to other layers of semantic meaning.1 IntroductionThis paper describes a fine-grained annotation schemefor key components and properties of opinions, emo-tions, sentiments, speculations, evaluations, and otherprivate states in text.
We first give an overview of thecore scheme.
We then describe recent extensions to thescheme, namely refined annotations of attitudes and tar-gets, or objects, of private states.
Finally, we discuss re-lated items from the ?Pie in the Sky?
Check List of De-sirable Semantic Information for Annotation, and relatedwork.
We believe our scheme would provide a founda-tion for adding private state annotations to other layers ofsemantic and pragmatic meaning.2 The Core SchemeThis section overviews the core of the annotation scheme.Further details may be found in (Wilson and Wiebe,2003; Wiebe et al, 2005).2.1 Means of Expressing Private StatesThe goals of the annotation scheme are to represent inter-nal mental and emotional states, and to distinguish sub-jective information from material presented as fact.
Asa result, the annotation scheme is centered on the no-tion of private state, a general term that covers opinions,beliefs, thoughts, feelings, emotions, goals, evaluations,and judgments.
As Quirk et al (1985) define it, a privatestate is a state that is not open to objective observationor verification: ?a person may be observed to assert thatGod exists, but not to believe that God exists.
Belief is inthis sense ?private?.?
(p. 1181) Following literary theo-rists such as Banfield (1982), we use the term subjectivityfor linguistic expressions of private states in the contextsof texts and conversations.We can further view private states in terms of theirfunctional components ?
as states of experiencers hold-ing attitudes, optionally toward targets.
For example, forthe private state in the sentence John hates Mary, the ex-periencer is ?John,?
the attitude is ?hate,?
and the targetis ?Mary.
?We create private state frames for three main types ofprivate state expressions in text:?
explicit mentions of private states?
speech events expressing private states?
expressive subjective elementsAn example of an explicit mention of a private state is?fears?
in (1):(1) ?The U.S. fears a spill-over,?
said Xirao-Nima.An example of a speech event expressing a private stateis ?said?
in (2):(2) ?The report is full of absurdities,?
Xirao-Nima said.Note that we use the term speech event to refer to bothspeaking and writing events.The phrase ?full of absurdities?
in (2) above is an ex-pressive subjective element (Banfield, 1982).
Other ex-amples can be found in (3):(3) The time has come, gentlemen, forSharon, the assassin, to realize that injusticecannot last long.53The private states in this sentence are expressed entirelyby the words and the style of language that is used.
In(3), although the writer does not explicitly say that hehates Sharon, his choice of words clearly demonstratesa negative attitude toward him.
As used in these sen-tences, the phrases ?The time has come,?
?gentlemen,?
?the assassin,?
and ?injustice cannot last long?
are all ex-pressive subjective elements.
Expressive subjective el-ements are used by people to express their frustration,anger, wonder, positive sentiment, etc., without explic-itly stating that they are frustrated, angry, etc.
Sarcasmand irony often involve expressive subjective elements.2.2 Private State FramesWe propose two types of private state frames: expressivesubjective element frames will be used to representexpressive subjective elements; and direct subjectiveframes will be used to represent both subjective speechevents (i.e., speech events expressing private states) andexplicitly mentioned private states.
The frames have thefollowing attributes:Direct subjective (subjective speech event or explicitprivate state) frame:?
text anchor: a pointer to the span of text that rep-resents the speech event or explicit mention of a pri-vate state.?
source: the person or entity that expresses or expe-riences the private state, possibly the writer.?
target: the target or topic of the private state, i.e.,what the speech event or private state is about.?
properties:?
intensity: the intensity of the private state (low,medium, high, or extreme).?
expression intensity: the contribution of thespeech event or private state expression itselfto the overall intensity of the private state.
Forexample, ?say?
is often neutral, even if what isuttered is not neutral, while ?excoriate?
itselfimplies a very strong private state.?
insubstantial: true, if the private state is notsubstantial in the discourse.
For example, a pri-vate state in the context of a conditional oftenhas the value true for attribute insubstantial.?
attitude type: the type of attitude(s) compos-ing the private state.Expressive subjective element frame:?
text anchor: a pointer to the span of text that de-notes the subjective or expressive phrase.?
source: the person or entity that is expressing theprivate state, possibly the writer.?
properties:?
intensity: the intensity of the private state.?
attitude type2.3 Objective Speech Event FramesTo distinguish opinion-oriented material from materialpresented as factual, we also define objective speechevent frames.
These are used to represent material that isattributed to some source, but is presented as objectivefact.
They include a subset of the slots in private stateframes:Objective speech event frame:?
text anchor: a pointer to the span of text that de-notes the speech event.?
source: the speaker or writer.?
target: the target or topic of the speech event, i.e.,the content of what is said.For example, an objective speech event frame is cre-ated for ?said?
in the following sentence (assuming noundue influence from the context):(4) Sargeant O?Leary said the incident tookplace at 2:00pm.That the incident took place at 2:00pm is presented as afact with Sargeant O?Leary as the source of information.2.4 Agent FramesThe annotation scheme includes an agent frame for nounphrases that refer to sources of private states and speechevents, i.e., for all noun phrases that act as the experi-encer of a private state, or the speaker/writer of a speechevent.
Each agent frame generally has two slots.
The textanchor slot includes a pointer to the span of text that de-notes the noun phrase source.
The source slot containsa unique alpha-numeric ID that is used to denote thissource throughout the document.
The agent frame as-sociated with the first informative (e.g., non-pronominal)reference to this source in the document includes an idslot to set up the document-specific source-id mapping.2.5 Nested SourcesThe source of a speech event is the speaker or writer.
Thesource of a private state is the experiencer of the privatestate, i.e., the person whose opinion or emotion is beingexpressed.
The writer of an article is always a source, be-cause he or she wrote the sentences of the article, but thewriter may also write about other people?s private states54and speech events, leading to multiple sources in a singlesentence.
For example, each of the following sentenceshas two sources: the writer (because he or she wrote thesentences), and Sue (because she is the source of a speechevent in (5) and of private states in (6) and (7)).
(5) Sue said, ?The election was fair.?
(6) Sue thinks that the election was fair.
(7) Sue is afraid to go outside.Note, however, that we don?t really know what Sue says,thinks or feels.
All we know is what the writer tells us.For example, Sentence (5) does not directly present Sue?sspeech event but rather Sue?s speech event according tothe writer.
Thus, we have a natural nesting of sources ina sentence.In particular, private states are often filtered throughthe ?eyes?
of another source, and private states are of-ten directed toward the private states of others.
Considersentence (1) above and (8) following:(8) China criticized the U.S. report?s criticismof China?s human rights record.In sentence (1), the U.S. does not directly state its fear.Rather, according to the writer, according to Xirao-Nima,the U.S. fears a spill-over.
The source of the private stateexpressed by ?fears?
is thus the nested source ?writer,Xirao-Nima, U.S.?.
In sentence (8), the U.S. report?s crit-icism is the target of China?s criticism.
Thus, the nestedsource for ?criticism?
is ?writer, China, U.S. report?.Note that the shallowest (left-most) agent of all nestedsources is the writer, since he or she wrote the sentence.In addition, nested source annotations are composed ofthe IDs associated with each source, as described inthe previous subsection.
Thus, for example, the nestedsource ?writer, China, U.S. report?
would be representedusing the IDs associated with the writer, China, and thereport being referred to, respectively.2.6 ExamplesWe end this section with examples of direct subjective,expressive subjective element, and objective speech eventframes (sans target and attitude type attributes, which arediscussed in the next section).First, we show the frames that would be associatedwith sentence (9), assuming that the relevant source ID?shave already been defined:(9) ?The US fears a spill-over,?
said Xirao-Nima.Objective speech event:Text anchor: the entire sentenceSource: <writer>Implicit: trueObjective speech event:Text anchor: saidSource: <writer,Xirao-Nima>Direct subjective:Text anchor: fearsSource: <writer,Xirao-Nima,U.S.>Intensity: mediumExpression intensity: mediumThe first objective speech event frame represents that, ac-cording to the writer, it is true that Xirao-Nima utteredthe quote and is a professor at the university referredto.
The implicit attribute is included because the writer?sspeech event is not explicitly mentioned in the sentence(i.e., there is no explicit phrase such as ?I write?
).The second objective speech event frame representsthat, according to the writer, according to Xirao-Nima, itis true that the US fears a spillover.
Finally, when we drilldown to the subordinate clause we find a private state: theUS fear of a spillover.
Such detailed analyses, encodedas annotations on the input text, would enable a personor an automated system to pinpoint the subjectivity in asentence, and attribute it appropriately.Now, consider sentence (10):(10) ?The report is full of absurdities,?
Xirao-Nima said.Objective speech event:Text anchor: the entire sentenceSource: <writer>Implicit: trueDirect subjective:Text anchor: saidSource: <writer,Xirao-Nima>Intensity: highExpression intensity: neutralExpressive subjective element:Text anchor: full of absurditiesSource: <writer,Xirao-Nima>Intensity: highThe objective frame represents that, according to thewriter, it is true that Xirao-Nima uttered the quoted string.The second frame is created for ?said?
because it is a sub-jective speech event: private states are conveyed in whatis uttered.
Note that intensity is high but expression inten-sity is neutral: the private state being expressed is strong,but the specific speech event phrase ?said?
does not it-self contribute to the intensity of the private state.
Thethird frame is for the expressive subjective element ?fullof absurdities.
?3 Annotation ProcessTo date, over 11,000 sentences in 550 documents havebeen annotated according to the annotation scheme de-scribed above.
The documents are English-language ver-sions of news documents from the world press.
The doc-uments are from 187 different news sources in a variety55of countries.
The original documents and their annota-tions are available athttp://nrrc.mitre.org/NRRC/publications.htm.The annotation process and inter-annotator agreementstudies are described in (Wiebe et al, 2005).
Here, wewant to highlight two themes of the annotation instruc-tions:1.
There are no fixed rules about how particular wordsshould be annotated.
The instructions describe theannotations of specific examples, but do not statethat specific words should always be annotated a cer-tain way.2.
Sentences should be interpreted with respect to thecontexts in which they appear.
The annotatorsshould not take sentences out of context and thinkwhat they could mean, but rather should judge themas they are being used in that particular sentence anddocument.We believe that these general strategies for annotationsupport the creation of corpora that will be useful forstudying expressions of subjectivity in context.4 Extensions: Attitude and TargetAnnotationsBefore we describe the new attitude and target annota-tions, consider the following sentence.
(11) ?I think people are happy because Chavezhas fallen.
?This sentence contains two private states, represented bydirect subjective annotations anchored on ?think?
and?happy,?
respectively.The word ?think?
is used to express an opinion aboutwhat is true according to its source (a positive arguingattitude type; see Section 4.1).
The target of ?think?
is?people are happy because Chavez has fallen.
?The word ?happy?
clearly expresses a positive attitude,with target ?Chavez has fallen.?
However, looking moreclosely at the private state for ?happy,?
we see that wecan also infer a negative attitude toward Chavez, fromthe phrase ?happy because Chavez has fallen.
?Sentence (11) illustrates some of the things we need toconsider when representing attitudes and targets.
First,we see that more than one type of attitude may be in-volved when a private state is expressed.
In (11), thereare three (a positive attitude, a negative attitude, and apositive arguing attitude).
Second, more than one targetmay be associated with a private state.
Consider ?happy?in (11).
The target of the positive attitude is ?Chavez hasfallen,?
while the target of the inferred negative attitudeis ?Chavez.
?Positive Attitudes Positive ArguingNegative Attitudes Negative ArguingPositive Intentions SpeculationNegative Intentions Other AttitudesTable 1: Attitude TypesThe representation also must support multiple targetsfor a single attitude, as illustrated by Sentence (12):(12) Tsvangirai said the election result was aclear case of highway robbery by Mugabe, hisgovernment and his party, Zanu-PF.In (12), the phrase ?a clear case of highway robbery?
ex-presses a negative attitude of Tsvangirai.
This negativeattitude has two targets: ?the election results?
and ?Mu-gabe, his government and his party, Zanu-PF.
?To capture the kind of detailed attitude and target in-formation that we described above, we propose two newtypes of annotations: attitude frames and target frames.We describe these new annotations in Sections 4.2 and4.3, but first we introduce the set of attitude types that wedeveloped for the annotation scheme.4.1 Types of AttitudesOne of our goals in extending the annotation scheme forprivate states was to develop a set of attitude types thatwould be useful for NLP applications.
It it also importantthat the set of attitude types provide good coverage for therange of possible private states.
Working with our anno-tators and looking at the private states already annotated,we developed the set of attitude types listed in Table 1.Below we give a brief description of each attitudetype, followed by an example.
In each example, the spanof text that expresses the attitude type is in bold, and thespan of text that refers to the target of the attitude type (ifa target is given) is in angle brackets.Positive Attitudes: positive emotions, evaluations, judg-ments and stances.
(13) The Namibians went as far as to say?Zimbabwe?s election system?
was ?watertight, without room for rigging?.Negative Attitudes: negative emotions, evaluations,judgments and stances.
(14) His disenfranchised supporters wereseething.Positive Arguing: arguing for something, arguing thatsomething is true or so, arguing that something did hap-pen or will happen, etc.56(15) Iran insists ?its nuclear program is purelyfor peaceful purposes?.Negative Arguing: arguing against something, arguingthat something is not true or not so, arguing that some-thing did not happen or will not happen, etc.
(16) Officials in Panama denied that ?Mr.Chavez or any of his family members had askedfor asylum?.Positive Intentions: aims, goals, plans, and other overtlyexpressed intentions.
(17) The Republic of China government be-lieves in the US committment ?to separatingits anti-terrorism campaign from the TaiwanStrait issue?, an official said Thursday.Negative Intentions: expressing that something is not anaim, not a goal, not an intention, etc.
(18) The Bush administration has no plans ?toease sanctions against mainland China?.Speculation: speculation or uncertainty about what mayor may not be true, what may or may not happen, etc.
(19) ?The president is likely to endorse thebill?.Other Attitudes: other types of attitudes that do not fallinto one of the above categories.
(20) To the surprise of many, ?the dollar hitonly 2.4 pesos and closed at 2.1?.4.2 Attitude FramesWith the introduction of the attitude frames, two issuesarise.
First, which spans of text should the new atti-tudes be anchored to?
Second, how do we tie the attitudeframes back to the private states that they are part of?The following sentence illustrates the first issue.
(21) The MDC leader said systematic cheating,spoiling tactics, rigid new laws, and shear ob-struction - as well as political violence and in-timidation - were just some of the irregularitiespractised by the authorities in the run-up to, andduring the poll.In (21), there are 5 private state frames attributedto the MDC leader: a direct subjective frame an-chored to ?said,?
and four expressive subjective ele-ment frames anchored respectively to ?systematic cheat-ing .
.
.
obstruction,?
?as well as,?
?violence and intimida-tion,?
and ?just some of the irregularities.?
We could cre-ate an attitude frame for each of these private state frames,but we believe the following is a better solution.
For eachdirect subjective frame, the annotator is asked to considerthe direct subjective annotation and everything within thescope of the annotation when deciding what attitude typesare being expressed by the source of the direct subjectiveframe.
Then, for each attitude type identified, the an-notator creates an attitude frame and anchors the frameto whatever span of text completely captures the attitudetype.
In to sentence (21), this results in just one attitudeframe being created to represent the negative attitude ofthe MDC leader.
The anchor for this attitude frame beginswith ?systematic cheating?
and ends with ?irregularities.
?Turning to the second issue, tying attitude frames totheir private states, we do two things.
First, we create aunique ID for the attitude frame.
Then, we change theattitude type attribute on the direct subjective annotationinto a new attribute called an attitude link.
We place theattitude frame ID into the attitude link slot.
The attitudelink slot can hold more then one attitude frame ID, allow-ing us to represent a private state composed of more thanone type of attitude.Because we expect the attitude annotations to overlapwith most of the expressive subjective element annota-tions, we chose not to link attitude frames to expressivesubjective element frames.
However, this would be pos-sible to do should it become necessary.The attitude frame has the following attributes:Attitude frame:?
id: a unique alphanumeric ID for identifying the at-titude annotation.
The ID is used to link the attitudeannotation to the private state it is part of.?
text anchor: a pointer to the span of text that cap-tures the attitude being expressed.?
attitude type: one of the attitude types listed in Ta-ble 1.?
target link: one or more target annotation IDs (seeSection 4.3).?
intensity: the intensity of the attitude.?
properties:?
inferred: true, if the attitude is inferred.?
sarcastic: true, if the attitude is realizedthrough sarcasm.?
repetition: true, if the attitude is realizedthrough the repetition of words, phrases, orsyntax.?
contrast: true, if the attitude is realized onlythrough contrast with another attitude.57Of the four attitude-frame properties, inferred was al-ready discussed.
The property sarcastic marks attitudesexpressed using sarcasm.
In general, we think this prop-erty will be of interest for NLP applications working withopinions.
Detecting sarcasm may also help a system learnto distinguish between positive and negative attitudes.The sarcasm in Sentence (22), below, makes the word?Great?
an expression of a negative rather than a positiveattitude.
(22) ?Great, keep on buying dollars so there?llbe more and more poor people in the country,?shouted one.The repetition and contrast properties are also for mark-ing different ways in which an attitude might be realized.We feel these properties will be useful for developing anautomatic system for recognizing different types of atti-tudes.4.3 Target FramesThe target frame is used to mark the target of each atti-tude.
A target frame has two slots, the id slot and the textanchor slot.
The id slot contains a unique alpha-numericID for identifying the target annotation.
We use the targetframe ID to link the target back to the attitude frame.
Theattitude frame has a target-link slot that can hold one ormore target frame IDs.
This allows us to represent whena single attitude is directed at more than one target.The text anchor slot has a pointer to the span of text thatdenotes the target.
If there is more than one reference tothe target in the sentence, the most syntactically relevantreference is chosen.To illustrate what we mean by syntactically relevant,consider the following sentence.
(23) African observers generally approved of?his victory?
while Western governments de-nounced ?it?.The target of the two attitudes (in bold) in the above sen-tence is the same entity in the discourse.
However, al-though we anchor the target for the first attitude to ?hisvictory,?
the anchor for the target of the second attitude isthe pronoun ?it.?
As the direct object of the span that de-notes the attitude ?denounced,?
?it?
is more syntacticallyrelevant than ?his victory.
?4.4 Illustrative ExamplesFigures 4.4 and 4.4 give graphical representations for theannotations in sentences (11) and (12).
With attitudeframe and target frame extensions, we are able to capturemore detail about the private states being expressed in thetext than the original core scheme presented in (Wiebe etal., 2005).5 Pie in the Sky AnnotationAmong the items on the ?Pie in the Sky?
Check Listof Desirable Semantic Information for Annotation, 1 themost closely related are epistemic values (?attitude??
),epistemic, deontic, and personal attitudes.
These allfundamentally involve a self (Banfield, 1982), a subjectof consciousness who is the source of knowledge as-sessments, judgments of certainty, judgments of obliga-tion/permission, personal attitudes, and so on.
Any ex-plicit epistemic, deontic, or personal attitude expressionsare represented by us as private state frames, either directsubjective frames (e.g., for verbs such as ?know?
refer-ring to an epistemic state) or expressive subjective ele-ment frames (e.g., for modals such as ?must?
or ?oughtto?).
Importantly, many deontic, epistemic, and personalattitude expressions do not directly express the speakeror writer?s subjectivity, but are attributed by the speakeror writer to agents mentioned in the text (consider, e.g.,?John believes that Mary should quit her job?).
Our frameand nested-source representations were designed to sup-port attributing subjectivity to appropriate sources.
In fu-ture work, additional attributes could be added to privatestate frames to distinguish between, for example, deonticand epistemic usages of ?must?
and to represent differentepistemic values.Other phenomena on the list overlap with subjectivity,such as modality and social style/register.
As mentionedabove, some modal expressions are subjective, such asthose expressing deontic or epistemic judgments.
How-ever, hypotheticals and future expressions need not besubjective.
For example, ?The company announced thatif its profits decrease in the next quarter, it will lay offsome employees?
may easily be interpreted as presentingobjective fact.
As for style, some are subjective by theirnature.
One is the literary style represented thought, usedto present consciousness in fiction (Cohn, 1978; Banfield,1982).
Others are sarcastic or dismissive styles of speak-ing or writing.
In our annotation scheme, sentences per-ceived to represent a character?s consciousness are repre-sented with private-state frames, as are expressions per-ceived to be sarcastic or dismissive.
On the other hand,some style distinctions, such as degree of formality, areoften realized in other ways than with explicit subjectiveexpressions (e.g., ?can?t?
versus ?cannot?
).Polarity, another item on the checklist, also overlapswith subjective positive and negative attitude types.
Al-though many negative and positive polarity words are sel-dom used outside subjective expressions (such as ?hate?and ?love?
), others often are.
For example, words suchas ?addicted?
and ?abandoned?
are included as negativepolarity terms in the General Inquirer lexicon (General-Inquirer, 2000), but they can easily appear in objective1Available at: http://nlp.cs.nyu.edu/meyers/frontiers/2005.html58direct subjective frametext anchor: thinksource: <writer, I>intensity: mediumexpression intensity: mediumattitude link: a10attitude frameid: a10text anchor: thinkattitude type: positive arguingintensity: mediumtarget link: t10direct subjective frametext anchor: are happysource: <writer, I, people>intensity: mediumexpression intensity: mediumattitude link: a20    , a30target frameid: t30text anchor: Chavezattitude frameid: a20text anchor: are happyattitude type: positive attitudeintensity: mediumtarget link: t20  target frameid: t20text anchor: Chavez has fallentarget frameid: t10text anchor: people are happybecause Chavez has fallenattitude frameid: a30text anchor: are happy becauseChavez has fallenattitude type: negative attitudeintensity: mediuminferred: truetarget link: t30objective speech eventtext anchor: the entire sentencesource: <writer>implicit: trueFigure 1: Graphical representation of annotations for Sentence (11)direct subjective frametext anchor: saidsource: <writer, Tsvangirai>intensity: highexpression intensity: neutralattitude link: a40attitude frameid: a40text anchor: clear case of highway robberyattitude type: negative attitudeintensity: hightarget link: t40    , t45target frameid: t40text anchor: election resulttarget frameid: t45text anchor: Mugabe, his governmentand his party, Zanu-PFobjective speech eventtext anchor: the entire sentencesource: <writer>implicit: trueexpressive subjective element framesource: <writer, Tsvangirai>text anchor: clear case of highway robberyintensity: highFigure 2: Graphical representation of annotations for Sentence (12)59sentences (e.g., ?Thomas De Quincy was addicted toopium and lived in an abandoned shack?
).Integrating subjectivity with other layers of annotationproposed in the ?Pie in the Sky?
project would afford theopportunity to investigate how they interact.
It wouldalso enrich our subjectivity representations.
While ourscheme promises to be a good base, much remains to beadded.
For example, annotations of thematic roles andco-reference would add needed structure to the target an-notations, which are now only spans of text.
In addi-tion, temporal and modal annotations would flesh out theinsubstantial attribute, which is currently only a binarymarker.
Furthermore, individual private state expressionsmust be integrated with respect to the discourse context.For example, which expressions of opinions oppose ver-sus support one another?
Which sentences presented asobjective fact are included to support a subjective opin-ion?
A challenging dimension to add to the ?Pie in theSky?
project would be the deictic center as conceived ofin (Duchan et al, 1995), which consists of here, now, andI reference points updated as the text or conversation un-folds.
Our annotation scheme was developed with thisframework in mind.6 Related WorkThe work most similar to ours is Appraisal Theory (Mar-tin, 2000; White, 2002) from systemic functional linguis-tics (see Halliday (19851994)).
Both Appraisal Theoryand our annotation scheme are concerned with identify-ing and characterizing expressions of opinions and emo-tions in context.
The two schemes, however, make differ-ent distinctions.
Appraisal Theory distinguishes differenttypes of positive and negative attitudes and also varioustypes of ?intersubjective positioning?
such as attributionand expectation.
Appraisal Theory does not distinguish,as we do, the different ways that private states may be ex-pressed (i.e., directly, or indirectly using expressive sub-jective elements).
It also does not include a representa-tion for nested levels of attribution.In addition to Appraisal Theory, subjectivity annota-tion of text in context has also been performed in Yu andHatzivassiloglou (2003), Bruce and Wiebe (1999), andWiebe et al (2004).
The annotations in Yu and Hatzi-vassiloglou (2003) are sentence-level subjective vs. ob-jective and polarity judgments.
The annotation schemesused in Bruce and Wiebe (1999) and Wiebe et al (2004)are earlier, much less detailed versions of the annotationscheme presented in this paper.7 ConclusionWe have described extensions to an annotation schemefor private states and objective speech events in lan-guage.
We look forward to integrating and elaboratingthis scheme with other layers of semantic meaning in thefuture.8 AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported in part by the National Sci-ence Foundation under grant IIS-0208798 and by the Ad-vanced Research and Development Activity (ARDA).ReferencesA.
Banfield.
1982.
Unspeakable Sentences.
Routledge andKegan Paul, Boston.R.
Bruce and J. Wiebe.
1999.
Recognizing subjectivity: A casestudy of manual tagging.
Natural Language Engineering,5(2):187?205.D.
Cohn.
1978.
Transparent Minds: Narrative Modes forRepresenting Consciousness in Fiction.
Princeton Univer-sity Press, Princeton, NJ.J.
Duchan, G. Bruder, and L. Hewitt, editors.
1995.
Deixisin Narrative: A Cognitive Science Perspective.
LawrenceErlbaum Associates.The General-Inquirer.
2000.http://www.wjh.harvard.edu/?inquirer/spreadsheet guide.htm.M.A.K.
Halliday.
1985/1994.
An Introduction to FunctionalGrammar.
London: Edward Arnold.J.R.
Martin.
2000.
Beyond exchange: APPRAISAL systemsin English.
In Susan Hunston and Geoff Thompson, editors,Evaluation in Text: Authorial stance and the construction ofdiscourse, pages 142?175.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.R.
Quirk, S. Greenbaum, G. Leech, and J. Svartvik.
1985.
AComprehensive Grammar of the English Language.
Long-man, New York.P.R.R.
White.
2002.
Appraisal: The language of attitudi-nal evaluation and intersubjective stance.
In Verschueren,Ostman, blommaert, and Bulcaen, editors, The Handbookof Pragmatics, pages 1?27.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: JohnBenjamins Publishing Company.J.
Wiebe, T. Wilson, R. Bruce, M. Bell, and M. Martin.
2004.Learning subjective language.
Computational Linguistics,30(3):277?308.J.
Wiebe, T. Wilson, and C. Cardie.
2005.
Annotating expres-sions of opinions and emotions in language.
Language Re-sources and Evalution (formerly Computers and the Human-ities), 1(2).T.
Wilson and J. Wiebe.
2003.
Annotating opinions in theworld press.
In SIGdial-03.H.
Yu and V. Hatzivassiloglou.
2003.
Towards answering opin-ion questions: Separating facts from opinions and identifyingthe polarity of opinion sentences.
In EMNLP-2003.60
