Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Building Educational Applications Using NLP,pages 77?84, Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?Association for Computational Linguistics, 2005A Software Tool for Teaching Reading Based on Text-to-SpeechLetter-to-Phoneme RulesMarian J. Macchi Dan KahnE-Speech CorporationPrinceton, NJ 08540mjm@espeech.com dk@espeech.comAbstractNative speakers of English who are goodreaders can ?sound out?
words or namesfrom printed text, even if they have neverseen them before, although they may notbe conscious of the strategies they use.No tools are available today that can con-vey that knowledge to learners, showingthem the rules that apply in English text.We have adapted the letter-to-phonemecomponent of a text-to-speech synthesizerto a web-based software system that canteach word decoding to non-native speak-ers of English, English-speaking children,and adult learners.1 IntroductionLearning to read a language like English involveslearning many different operations, including pho-nemic awareness, word recognition, fluency, ver-bal comprehension, and expression.
The researchin this project focuses on the pronunciation aspectof reading from the printed page: understandinghow letters, or graphemes, in words are related tosounds, or phonemes.Most people recognize that the relationship be-tween English orthography and phonetic represen-tation is complex and somewhat arbitrary.Although there is significant evidence that phono-logical information plays an important role in wordreading (Kayner, Foorman, Perfetti, Pesetsky, andSeidenberg, 2001), the precise role of ?phonicsrules?
that would allow a learner to ?sound out?
aprinted word has been debated by educators as wellas by cognitive psychologists, and many versionsof phonics rules have been discussed by educators.A classic paper by Clymer (1963) argued thatmost of the phonics generalizations taught in ele-mentary school are not valid most of the time.Clymer found that for many of the rules, therewere so many exceptions that the rule had littleutility as a generalization for teaching learners tosound out a word of English.
However, theClymer results do not necessarily mean that phonicgeneralizations are not useful to readers.
SinceClymer, there have been many papers that havesuggested alternate formulations of the letter-to-phoneme rules for teaching reading.
For example,a recent study by Johnston (2001) found one rea-son that Clymer considered phonics rules to beunreliable is because the rules he evaluated weretoo general.
Today, there is no consensus on a setof rules, nor does there exist any complete, explicitrule system that ?decodes?
any word or propername of English for learners.E-Speech?s letter-to-phoneme (LTP) software,developed over many years for text-to-speech andspeech recognition applications, uses proprietaryrules to produce pronunciations for any input text.We have adapted the LTP software into a proto-type web-based, interactive online system that tea-ches word pronunciation by explicitly presentingrules for those words/names pronounced accordingto regular rules and by showing exceptions to therules.
The system allows students to view familiesof words that obey any given rule and to viewwords with the same letter patterns that obey diffe-rent rules.Our intent is to develop a system that can pro-vide phonics training for beginning readers, eitherchildren or adults who are native speakers of En-77glish, as well as for nonnative speakers of Englishand language-disabled learners.
We envision thesystem either as part of an interactive dictionary orgeneral language-teaching package or stand-aloneas an instructional tool  for teaching word pronun-ciation.A major challenge is to identify rules that areuseful for learners and to present them effectively.We have begun to test our prototype system withnonnative speakers of English who were studyingEnglish as a second or foreign language.
Our pre-liminary results indicate that the software was (1)useful in improving nonnative speakers?
pronun-ciation of English words; (2) effective at teachingboth ?basic?
pronunciation rules, such as thosecommonly taught in phonics programs, and somenovel, proprietary pronunciation rules.2 Software DesignThe Word Pronunciation tool allows a student toenter any word or name ?
whether it is in any dic-tionary or not - and see our set of rules that accountfor its pronunciation.
The screen capture belowshows the output for the word ?photograph?.
Thestudent can also hear the word pronounced, eithernormally or syllable-by-syllable.1Figure 1 : Word Pronunciation tool display1 The system uses the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) to repre-sent phonetic transcriptions,  because most of our target population,adult foreign-born learners of English as a second language, werefamiliar with this alphabet, since it is used in many English learners?dictionaries.In addition, a student can click on any rule and seeother words obeying the same rule as well aswords that are exceptions to the rule.2The Letter Pattern tool allows a student to entera letter or sequence of letters (ie, a letter pattern)and see the rules that apply to that pattern and ex-ceptions to those rules.
For example, a studentconfused by the fact that "how" and "snow" don'trhyme can enter the letter pattern "ow" and viewthe various generalizations (rules) that determinethe pronunciation of this letter string in differentcontexts, as well as words that don't follow thesegeneralizations (exceptions).
The software under-lying this tool allows the user to tailor the output tohis needs of the moment.
For example, one canchoose 1-syllable versus multisyllabic words astargets for the rules, how many sample words tooutput by default, and how big a vocabulary fromwhich to draw words.
A simple example of theoperation of this tool is illustrated in Figure 2.Figure 2: Letter Pattern tool displayWhile we developed the Letter Pattern tool for ge-neral use by learners, we used its underlying searchengine in exercises designed to diagnose and teachpronunciation rules.We implemented a framework for a self-pacedset of exercises that allows the user to work aloneto diagnose his pronunciation-rule weaknesses andlearn the rules necessary to correct his errors.
Weused this framework to assess the effectiveness ofour rules and system for learners.In the typical exercise interaction, the user seesa sequence of words and must choose the correctpronunciation for each.
He indicates his choice of2 In this prototype, we worked on presenting the segmental rules, thatis, rules for pronouncing phonemes.
Although our letter-to-phonemesoftware assigns lexical stress (to indicate which syllable bears pri-mary stress in polysyllabic words), the stress assignment algorithm isquite complicated.
Although the algorithm is accurate, it is too com-plicated for a human to apply for learning.
We also ignored the rulesfor morphological decomposition, such as for analyzing ?walking?into ?walk?
plus ?ing?
or ?snowman?
into ?snow?
plus ?man?.Words with the letter pattern eighTop 60000 words; Rules for vowel only1 rule (Common words shown first)eigh ?
e?
32 words    weight /we?t/more wordsException    a?
7 words     height  /ha?t/more words Type a word or name:photograph                                                      PRONOUNCE IT     .Word: photographPronunciation Rules   Click to see:Rule: ph ?
f                      more words & exceptionsRule: o ?
o?
in o.V                 more words & exceptionsRule: t ?
t                                   more words & exceptionsRule: o ?
?
:, Reduction ?
: ?
?
more words & exceptionsRule: g ?
g                                  more words & exceptionsRule: r ?
r                                   more words & exceptionsRule: a ?
?
more words & exceptionsRule: ph ?
f                      more words & exceptionsPronunciation:  ?fo?
t?
gr?fSyllable-by-Syllable :  ?fo?
t?
gr?f78pronunciation by clicking on one of several op-tions, represented in the International Phonetic Al-phabet (IPA) or by clicking on a speaker-symbol,so that he can hear the options spoken.
An exampleof a test item would be the nonsense word ?doke?.If the user chooses an incorrect pronunciation forthis word, he is told the correct pronunciation, aswell as the relevant rule, which in this case is thatan 'o' followed by a single consonant followed by afinal 'e' is pronounced /o?/.
The user can chooseto see actual examples of the rule in action(?smoke?, ?home?, etc.)
and other rules involving'o' (eg., the default pronunciation /?
:/, as in ?hot?
).In some cases, the exercises tested real Englishwords, and in others, ?nonsense?
words (wordsthat do not exist in English but are possible aswords, because they have letter sequences occur-ring in English words).
Only through knowing thegeneral rules of English pronunciation can a stu-dent correctly predict the pronunciation of wordshe has never seen before.
Figure 3 shows the exer-cise for knowledge of the letter ?a?
in the nonsenseword ?jate.
"Figure 3.
Exercise exampleA wrong answer would cause the screen in Figure4 to appear, in an attempt to teach the student therule he apparently hadn?t mastered.Figure 4.
Exercise feedback lesson exampleThis ?lesson?
screen highlights the relevant pro-nunciation rule in the word.
Because subjects toldus that our pronunciation rule syntax, derived fromour LTP rules, was ?too mathematical?
and hard tounderstand, the screen also displays an Englishlanguage explanation for each rule (e.g., ?In theletter pattern a ?
any letter ?
e, the letter a is pro-nounced as /e?/?).
In our prototype, we developeda simple text-generation algorithm to translatefrom our ?mathematical?
rule syntax (?a ?
/e?/, ina.e?)
into normal English for the rules that we tes-ted in our evaluation.
Going forward, however, wewill need to produce the explanations via a moresophisticated algorithm or simply hand-prepareexplanations for the rules.A subject can click on the ?See all words?
linkto see more English words in which that rule ap-plies.
After the ?lesson?
the learner is given theopportunity to try again, in order to reinforce thecorrect pronunciation.The design of the prototype incorporates severalfeatures that are important to its extension to a fulllearning system.
First, the set of exercises is table-driven, so that is relatively easy to add a new set ofexercises.
This feature is important since a com-plete system will need a large number of exercises.Second, the system is designed so that the corpusof words that serve as examples of the rules can bechanged easily.
This feature is important sincedifferent user groups (e.g., adult nonnative spea-kers, children, speakers with reading disabilities)may require different kinds of words as examples.3 Experimental ResultsIn addition to developing lexical resource tools, weconducted an experiment to determine (1) if oursoftware could be useful in teaching nonnativespeakers of English how to pronounce Englishwords, and if so, (2) if both commonly-taught pro-nunciation rules and pronunciation rules that areidiosyncratic to the E-Speech letter-to-phonemesystem can effectively be taught.We considered testing the lexical resource toolsdirectly by giving students lists of words and in-structing them to use the tools to learn the pronun-ciation rules for the words.
However, we felt that amore efficient way of testing our software wouldbe to develop a set of exercises to diagnose andteach various pronunciation rules and then to testhow effectively students learned from the exer-cises.
We developed the design of the exercisesYou may need help with the pronunciation rule for a in jate.The correct pronunciation for jate is ?e?tHere are the pronunciation rules for all the letters in jatePronunciation rule  j  ?
??
Pronunciation rule a  ?
e?, in a .
ePronunciation rule t  ?
tPronunciation rule e# ?
(not pronounced)Let?s look at the rule for pronouncing a in this word: ?
Pronunciation rule a ?
e?, in a .
eThis rule says:In the letter pattern a ?
any letter ?
e, the letter a is pronounced as e?.Examples: There are 2049 words in English where this rule applies.Here are 5 of them:made me?dstate ste?tmake me?ksame se?mplace ple?ssee all wordsLet?s get started.
Here is item 1 of 22 items.Choose the correct pronunciation for this word.79based on informal comments and results of pretestswith more than 40 nonnative speakers of English.3.1 Experimental DesignWe sought to improve nonnative speakers?
wordpronunciation competence, aiming toward givingthem the competence of native speakers of English.Therefore, we included both native and nonnativespeakers as subjects.
10 nonnative speakers ofEnglish and 7 native speakers of English success-fully completed the final set of exercises.
Sixnon-native subjects were undergraduates or gradu-ate students at Montclair State University who hadbeen assigned to an English as a Second Languagecourse based on their performance on an Englishlanguage test administered by the university.
Theother four were nonnative speakers of English inBrazil, Bolivia, and Germany.
Native languages ofthe subjects were German, Portuguese, Korean,Spanish, Polish, Bangla (Bangladesh), and Urhobo(Nigeria).
The native English-speaking subjectswere high school or college students who grew upin New Jersey.3The subjects were assigned logins to the systemand were instructed to complete a series of exer-cises, each of which would present different Eng-lish pronunciation rules.
A subject logged in to thesystem with a web-browser over the internet, saw aprinted word and a set of possible pronunciationsfor the word (as described above).
The student wasinstructed to listen to the set of choices and tochoose the pronunciation that he thought was cor-rect.
Subjects were told that each exercise wouldconsist of two parts.
The first part of each exercisewould identify the pronunciation rules with whicha subject might need help and then teach the rule;the second part of the exercise would determinewhether teaching the pronunciation rules was ef-fective.
In the teaching part of the exercise, eachrule was presented several times, as it applied todifferent words.
Subjects were allowed to repeatthe first part of each exercise as many times as theywished, until they felt comfortable about proceed-ing to the test part of the exercise.3 Nonnative subjects were told that we had developed software for teachingword pronunciation and we needed nonnative speakers to try the software andsee if it helped them to improve their word pronunciation.
English-speakingsubjects were told that we had developed software for teaching word pronuncia-tion to nonnative subjects, and that we needed to compare the students?
per-formance with native speakers?
performance.Our software logged the students?
choice foreach word in each part of each exercise and scoredit as correct (1) or incorrect (0).
We computed thepercentage of correct choices, which we call theword pronunciation score.
We also logged thenumber of times a student practiced with the diag-nosis/lesson portion of each exercise, and theamount of time a student spent with each item.The basic exercises were:Basic: 1-syllable nonsense words representing?basic?
rules, rules that are extremely common inEnglish words.
These are productive rules (Englishspeakers apply them in nonsense words), and rulescapturing these generalizations are commonlytaught in phonics programs.
Specifically the exer-cise teaches:?
a is pronounced /e?/ in the letter sequence a - anyletter - e , as in make?
a is pronounced /?/ by default, as in cat and analo-gous rules for the letters e, i, o, u.The other exercises taught and tested rules fromthe LTP system, using English words rather thannonsense words as the material.
These were:LTP1: the basic rules for the letter a, plus thetrisyllabic laxing rule (which we call the 3-syllablerule), which causes underlying long vowels anddiphthongs to shorten to a lax vowel in antepenul-timate syllables:?
a is pronounced /e?/, in a - any letter - e, as in make?
a is pronounced /?/ in a ?
any letter - e when a is 3syllables from the end of a word (the ?3-syllablerule?
),  as in tragedy?
a is pronounced /?/,by default, as in catLTP2: rules for a before the letter l:?
a is pronounced /?
:/ in all at the end of the word, asin ball?
a is pronounced /?
:/, in alt, as in salt?
a is pronounced /e?/, in a - any letter - e, as in saleand make?
a is pronounced /?/ by default, as in pal and catLTP3: rules for the letter a when it is followedby the letter r:?
a is pronounced /?
:/ in war?
a is pronounced /?/ in arr followed by any vowel ,as in carry?
a is pronounced /?
:/  in ar at the end of the word, asin car, and in ar followed by any consonant, as inpart?
a is pronounced /e?/, in a - any letter - e , as in careLTP4: rules for the letter a when it is precededby the phoneme /w/:?
a is pronounced  /?
:/  in war80?
a is pronounced /?
:/  in /w/a, as in watch and qual-ity ?
except ??
a is pronounced /?/ in /w/a before the phonemes /k/,/g/, /m/, /?/, as in wag, swam, quack, swang?
a is pronounced /e?/ in a - any letter - e , as in wakeSince each of these exercises included only severalrules, the final exercise, LTP-all, recapped theother exercises, in order to assess how well stu-dents could integrate all the rules.LTP-all: an integrated exercise:  all the rules forthe letter a that were presented in the previous ex-ercises, plus the rule?
a ?
/e?/ in aste, as in pasteWe chose this particular set of LTP rules be-cause they would allow us to compare the ?basic?rules, common to many phonics programs, andrules in our LTP system that are not taught inphonics programs.
All the non-basic rules in ourexperiment were pronunciation rules for the letter?a?
and were chosen because they applied to manyEnglish words and represented a variety of formaltypes of rules.
For example, some had relativelysimple contexts (e.g., ?alt?
), and some had compli-cated contexts.
For most of the rules, the contextwas specified in terms of the surrounding letters(for example, the letter a when followed by anyletter and the letter e).
For one rule, the contextwas specified in terms of the surrounding pho-nemes.
This latter type of rule is complicated be-cause it requires that a learner first identify thephonemes for the letters surrounding the target let-ter ?a?.In the exercise on ?basic rules?, we used non-sense words to teach and test pronunciation rules.Our reasoning was that the strongest test ofwhether a student knows the rules is to test hispronunciation of nonsense words, since the onlyway he could possibly know how to pronounce anonsense word is by applying the rules.
Further,we felt there was strong evidence that the ?basicrules?
are productive in English.
That is, nativespeakers of English know these rules and applythem in novel words and nonsense words.
For ex-ample, English speakers pronounce the ?a?
in non-sense words with ?a?
?
consonant ?
?e?
at the endof a word, (e.g., ?pake?, ?glape?, ?nade?)
as /e?/.Consequently, we felt that teaching and testingwith nonsense words would help give nonnativespeakers the same competence as native speakers.However, for the other exercises we used realEnglish words.
Our reasoning was that the non-basic rules, although they apply to classes of Eng-lish words, may not be productive in English.
Thatis, native speakers of English might not apply therules to nonsense words, even though the rule gov-erns a class of existing English words.
For exam-ple, in English, ?oo?
is most commonly /u:/ (as in?coo?
and ?cool?
), but when the ?oo?
is followedby a final ?k?, the vowel is almost always pro-nounced /?/ (e.g., ?took?, ?book?, ?cook?,?brook?, ?crook?, ?snook?, though there are a fewexceptions: ?kook?, ?spook?).
The question thusarises whether native speakers of English, whoobviously know how to pronounce these words,have internalized the ?ook rule?
and apply it innovel words.
Native speakers do not always pro-nounce novel ?ook?
words with /?/; instead, theysometimes use /u:/ in nonsense words, like?mook?, ?dook?, ?vook?
(see Treiman et.
al.,2003).
Of course, the fact that a rule is not produc-tive does not mean that it is not useful for teachingstudents how to pronounce words; clearly it wouldbe useful for students to know that ?ook?
is usuallypronounced /?k/.
However, since we wanted tocompare nonnatives?
performance to natives?
per-formance, and we were primarily concerned withteaching nonnative speakers how to pronounce realEnglish words, we chose to teach and test real, asopposed to nonsense, words.4We did include one test of non-basic-rules thatused nonsense words, anticipating that nativespeakers might perform differently from nonna-tives, if the nonnatives, who had been explicitlytaught pronunciation rules, applied them to non-sense words, even if natives did not apply themproductively in nonsense words.3.2 Experimental ResultsWe present our results informally, without sta-tistical analysis of significance, primarily becausewe have to date collected data a relatively smallnumber of subjects.
Consequently, we interpret ourresults as preliminary.4 We attempted to choose words that have relatively low frequency-of-occurrence, to minimize the chances that a nonnative speaker would simplyknow the word.8150556065707580859095100Native NonNativeSubjectsWordPronunciationScore(%correct)BeforeAfterFigure 5.
Overall Word Pronunciation ScoresFigure 5 shows word pronunciation scores aver-aged over all subjects and exercises, tabulated as?before?
(word pronunciation scores before sub-jects were offered any lessons) and ?after?
(wordpronunciation scores from the test parts of the ex-ercises, after the lessons).
As would be expected,native speakers had higher word pronunciationscores than nonnative speakers.
Further, nonnativespeakers had higher word pronunciation scoresafter completing the lessons than they did beforethe lessons, although, overall, they did not achievenative speakers?
level of word pronunciation.Thus, our data suggests that, overall, nonnativespeakers were able to learn aspects of word pro-nunciation from our system.50556065707580859095100Native                                            NonNativeSubjectWordPronunciationScore(%correct)BeforeAfterFigure 6.
Word Pronunciation Scores by SubjectFigure 6 indicates that there was wide variabilityamong the subjects.
Some nonnative subjects?scores increased much more than others?, and sev-eral subjects?
scores did not increase or increasedonly slightly.
Nonnative subjects with higher ?be-fore?
scores, in general, did not increase as muchas the nonnatives with low ?before?
scores, proba-bly because their scores were high to start with.Figure 7.
Word Pronunciation Scores by Exercise(B=Basic, L1=LTP1, L2=LTP2, L3=LTP3, L4=LTP4,La=LTP-all)Figure 7 presents the same data, collapsedacross subjects, for the different exercises, whichrepresented different sets of pronunciation rules.We wanted to know whether some exercisesproved more learnable than others.
In general, asshown at the right side of the Figure 7, for nonna-tive speakers, for each exercise, the word pronun-ciation scores were higher after the lessons thanbefore, although the effects were greater for someexercises than others.
For native speakers, in con-trast, there were no systematic differences in thebefore versus after scores.
However, overall,scores were higher for some exercises than forother exercises even for native speakers.
Examina-tion of the native speakers?
?incorrect?
responsessuggests that dialectal issues may have causedsome native speakers to choose responses that wedid not anticipate.
For example, for the word?waffle?, some native subjects chose the pronun-ciation /w?
:f?l/, although we had assumed that thepronunciation in these subjects?
dialect was/w?
:f?l/.Figures 8 and 9 suggest that some rules wereuseful to nonnative subjects.
For example, the "ba-sic" rules, in general, were effective; the nonsensewords tested after the lessons elicited higher scoresthan those tested before any lessons.
Of the other,letter-to-phoneme-based rules, the "war" rule andthe 3-syllable rule seemed to be effective (the ?be-fore?
bar for ?war?
is not displayed in Figure 9,because the before score was extremely low, only20%).5060708090100Native                    NonnativeExerciseWordPronunciationScore(%correct)AfterB   L1 L2  L3 L4  La     B   L1 L2  L3 L4  LaBefore82Figure 8.
Word Pronunciation Scores for BasicRulesLTP Rules(in words)405060708090100arC/w/aa-defaultall#a.e altarrV3-syllwararC/w/aa-defaultall#a.e altarrV3-syllwarNative                            NonnativeBeforeAfterFigure 9.
Word Pronunciation Scores for LTPRulesA complicated rule, the /w/a rule (i.e., the rule thatthe letter "a" after the phoneme /w/ is pronounced/?
:/), appeared not to be useful to nonnative sub-jects.
We found no evidence for the effect of teach-ing for another rule, the ?aste?
rule, because allnonnative subjects knew the pronunciation of the?aste?
words before the lessons.
However, therewere differences between subjects.
One source ofthis difference is probably due to differences in thenonnative subjects?
pre-existing English knowl-edge; that is  some subjects knew some word pro-nunciations in advance of the lessons.Consequently, for some rules we obtained data foronly a few subjects.As discussed above, since the items in the exer-cises testing our letter-to-phoneme rules were Eng-lish words (even though there were not commonwords) how do we know that subjects?
perform-ance was due to our lessons; perhaps the subjectssimply knew the words?
pronunciation before par-ticipating in our experiments?
How well do nonna-tive speakers apply the rules they learned to wordsthat we can be sure they have never seen before?One of our exercises, LTP-all included a sectionthat contained only nonsense words (e.g., ?later-ous?, ?plar?, ?swarg?, ?falt?
).Integrated Test(after)WordsWordsNonWordsNonWords5060708090100Native NonNativeSubjectWordPronunciationScore(%correct)Figure 10.
Word Pronunciation Scores for non-words versus words in the Integrated Rules TestLTP-all after lessonsFigure 10 presents the results of the nonsenseword portion of LTP-all:  pronunciation scores forreal English words versus nonsense words for non-native subjects and the analogous scores for nativespeakers, collapsed across subjects.
Althoughthere were between-subject differences,  on aver-age, both sets of subjects had lower scores for non-sense words than for words.
If subjects based theirscores for all test items ?
words as well as non-sense words ?
entirely on the word pronunciationrules that we included in our exercises, then wewould expect their scores to be the same for wordsand nonsense words.
Since words have an empiri-cally correct pronunciation (they are given in adictionary, for example), native speakers may berelying on a stored phonological representation forthe word items.
For nonsense words, however, thesubjects must rely on rules or other principles.
Ifsubjects used rules or principles for pronouncingnonsense words different from the ones we ex-pected, then the nonsense word scores would belower than those for words.
However, the pronun-ciation scores for the nonsense words for the non-native subjects were higher than that for natives.This fact suggests that the nonnatives were, in fact,applying the pronunciation rules they had learnedin our lessons to the nonwords.Basic Rules405060708090Before100After(in nonsense words)a  e  i  o  u  a  e  i  o  u     a  e  i  o  u  a e   i  o  uvowel-anyletter?e   vowel default  vowel-anyletter-e   vowel defaultNative                     Nonnative83In summary, our preliminary results indicatethat: (1) our software was useful in teaching non-native speakers of English how to pronounce Eng-lish words; (2) both ?basic?
pronunciation rulesand some novel, proprietary pronunciation ruleswere useful for teaching word pronunciation.4 Future ResearchThe major directions for our future research are toselect and reformulate LTP rules that are useful forteaching and then to obtain more user data fornonnative speakers and for native-English-speaking children learning to read.First, we intend to produce a complete learner?srule system for English, based on the entire set oftext-to-speech LTP rules.
Since our text-to-speechsystem contains roughly 800 LTP rules, which webelieve is too large a number for learners, a signifi-cant task is to reduce the number of rules.
Weintend to focus on rules that apply to large numbersof words and remove rules that apply to few words,relegating the words to which they apply to theexceptions dictionary.
We also intend to attemptto collapse rules that apply in similar contexts.Second, we need to determine whether learnerscan, in general, understand a pronunciation systemthat requires rule ordering.
In our system, somerules are labeled as ?default?
rules, meaning thatthey apply if no other rules apply.
Consequently,learners must know all the rules in order to knowwhen to apply the default rule.
If the number ofrules is too large, learners may need a system inwhich each rule is independently unambiguous.Third, we need to recruit more nonnative speak-ers of English who are good candidates for improv-ing their word pronunciation skills.
Some of oursubjects in this experiment had relatively highword pronunciation scores before exposure to ourlessons, so that observing any effect of our lessonswas inherently limited.
Therefore, we would liketo recruit more subjects with lower word pronun-ciation ability, in order to get a better picture of theeffectiveness of our system.
Can we predict whichstudents will have high pronunciation scores andwhich will have low scores based on a student?sreport of his or her experience in English50607080901000 5 10 15 20Years studied EnglishWordPronunciationScore(%correct)Figure 11.
Relation between Word PronunciationScore and Years Studied EnglishFigure 11 presents the average word pronuncia-tion scores for each subject at the beginning of theexercises, before doing lessons.
As shown, thereported length of time a student had studied Eng-lish was not correlated with word pronunciationscores.
Consequently, we cannot depend on a stu-dent?s reported length of time studying English aspredictive of his word pronunciation abilities.
In-stead, we will need to screen prospective subjectsvia pretesting.Finally, although we have developed our systemfor nonnative speakers, we would like to test oursystem with native-English-speaking childrenlearning to read.
However, it is likely that the userinterface and corpus of exemplar words will needto be different for the child population.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported in part by an SBIR grant fromthe National Science Foundation.ReferencesClymer, T. (1963).
The utility of phonic generalizationsin the primary grades.
The Reading Teacher, 50, 182-187.Johnston, F. P. (2001).
The utility of phonic generaliza-tions: Let?s take another look at Clymer?s conclusions,The Reading Teacher, 55, 132-143Rayner, K., Foorman, B. R., Perfetti, C. A., Pesetsky,D., and Seidenberg, M. S. 2001.
How psychologicalscience informs the teaching of reading.
Psychologi-cal science in the Public Interest, vol.
2.
2: 31-94.Treiman, R, Kessler, B, and Bick, S. 2003.
Influence ofconsonantal context on the pronunciation of vowels:a comparison of human readers and computationalmodels.
Cognition 88: 49-78.84
