Proceedings of the Workshop on Frontiers in Corpus Annotation II: Pie in the Sky, pages 84?91,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsAnnotating Discourse Connectives in the Chinese Treebank ?Nianwen XueDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of Pennsylvaniaxueniwen@linc.cis.upenn.eduAbstractIn this paper we examine the issues thatarise from the annotation of the discourseconnectives for the Chinese DiscourseTreebank Project.
This project is based onthe same principles as the PDTB, a projectthat annotates the English discourse con-nectives in the Penn Treebank.
The pa-per begins by outlining range of discourseconnectives under consideration in thisproject and examines the distribution ofthe explicit discourse connectives.
Wethen examine the types of syntactic unitsthat can be arguments to the discourseconnectives.
We show that one of themost challenging issues in this type of dis-course annotation is determining the tex-tual spans of the arguments and this ispartly due to the hierarchical nature of dis-course relations.
Finally, we discuss sensediscrimination of the discourse connec-tives, which involves separating discourseconnective from non-discourse connectivesenses and teasing apart the different dis-course connective senses, and discourseconnective variation, the use of differ-ent connectives to represent the same dis-course relation.
?I thank Aravind Johi and Martha Palmer for their com-ments.
All errors are my own, of course.1 IntroductionThe goal of the Chinese Discourse Treebank(CDTB) Project is to add a layer of discourse anno-tation to the Penn Chinese Treebank (Xue et al, Toappear), the bulk of which has also been annotatedwith predicate-argument structures.
This projectis focused on discourse connectives, which includeexplicit connectives such as subordinate and coor-dinate conjunctions, discourse adverbials, as wellas implicit discourse connectives that are inferablefrom neighboring sentences.
Like the Penn EnglishDiscourse Treebank (Miltsakaki et al, 2004a; Milt-sakaki et al, 2004b), the CDTB project adopts thegeneral idea presented in (Webber and Joshi, 1998;Webber et al, 1999; Webber et al, 2003) wherediscourse connectives are considered to be predi-cates that take abstract objects such as propositions,events and situations as their arguments.
This ap-proach departs from the previous approaches to dis-course analysis such as the Rhetorical Structure The-ory (Mann and Thompson, 1988; Carlson et al,2003) in that it does not start from a predefined in-ventory of abstract discourse relations.
Instead, alldiscourse relations are lexically grounded and an-chored by a discourse connective.
The discourserelations so defined can be structural or anaphoric.Structural discourse relations, generally anchored bysubordinate and coordinate conjunctions, hold lo-cally between two adjacent units of discourse (suchas clauses).
In contrast, anaphoric discourse rela-tions are generally anchored by discourse adverbialsand only one argument can be identified structurallyin the local context while the other can only be de-84rived anaphorically in the previous discourse.
Anadvantage of this approach to discourse analysis isthat discourse relations can be built up incrementallyin a bottom-up manner and this advantage is magni-fied in large-scale annotation projects where inter-annotator agreement is crucial and has been verifiedin the construction of the Penn English DiscourseTreebank (Miltsakaki et al, 2004a).
This approachclosely parallels the annotation of the the verbs inthe English and Chinese Propbanks (Palmer et al,2005; Xue and Palmer, 2003), where verbs are theanchors of predicate-argument structures.
The dif-ference is that the extents of the arguments to dis-course connectives are far less certain, while the ar-ity of the predcates is fixed for the discourse connec-tives.This paper outlines the issues that arise from theannotation of Chinese discourse connectives, withan initial focus on explicit discourse connectives.Section 2 gives an overview of the different kindsof discourse connectives that we plan to annotatefor the CDTB Project.
Section 3 surveys the dis-tribution of the discourse connectives and Section4 describes the kinds of discourse units that can bearguments to the discourse connectives.
Section 5specifies the scope of the arguments of discourse re-lations and describes what should be included in orexcluded from the text span of the arguments.
Sec-tions 6 and 7 describes the need for a mechanismto address sense disambiguation and discourse con-nective variation, drawing evidence from examplesof explicit discourse connectives.
Finally, Section 8concludes this paper.2 Overview of Chinese DiscourseConnectivesWith our theoretical disposition, a discourse connec-tive is viewed as a predicate taking two abstract ob-jects such as propositions, events, or situations asits arguments.
A discourse connective can be ei-ther explicit or implicit.
An explicit discourse con-nective is realized in the form of one lexical itemor several lexical items while an implicit discourseconnective must be inferred between adjacent dis-course units.
Typical explicit discourse connectivesare subordinate and coordinate conjunctions as wellas discourse adverbials.
While the arguments forsubordinate and coordinate conjunctions are gener-ally local, the first argument for a discourse adver-bial may need to be identified long-distance in theprevious discourse.2.1 Subordinate conjunctionsThere are two types of subordinate conjunctions inChinese, single and paired.
With single subordi-nate conjunctions, the subordinate conjunction in-troduces the subordinate clause, as in (1).
By con-vention, the subordinate clause is labeled ARG1 andthe main clause is labeled ARG2.
The subordinateconjunction is NOT included as part of the argu-ment.
The subordinate clause generally precedes themain clause in Chinese, but occasionally it can alsofollow the main clause.
The assignment of the argu-ment labels to the discourse units is independent oftheir syntactic distributions.
The subordinate clauseis always labeled ARG1 whether it precedes or fol-lows the main clause.Simple subordinate conjunctions: Simple sub-ordinate conjunctions are very much like Englishwhere the subordinate clause is introduced by a sub-ordinate conjunction:(1) wreport@?believe?,[conn XJif] [arg1 ?Leconomic?and7Kfinancial?policy?effective] ?,[arg2??Asia/?region?Leconomy?"expect3in???
?c1999m?begin?,recover] ".
?The report believes that if the economic and financialpolicies are effective, Asian economy is expected to re-cover in 1999.?Paired subordinate conjunctions: Chinese alsoabounds in paired subordinate conjunctions, wherethe subordinate conjunction introduces the subordi-nate clause and another discourse connective intro-duces the main clause, as in (2).
In this case, the dis-course connectives are considered to be paired andjointly anchor ONE discourse relation.
(2) [conn XJif] [arg1 U?reform??measure?not?effective?,&%confidence?
?crisis?,still3exist] ?,[conn @othen] [arg2?]?investor?willkhave?UpossibilityrBA5??attention=?turn?
?other#,emerging?|market] ".
?If the reform measures are not effective, confidence cri-sis still exists, then investors is likely to turn their atten-tion to other emerging markets.
?85Modified discourse connectives: Like English,some subordinate conjunctions can be modified byan adverb, as illustrated in (3).
Note that the subordi-nate conjunction is in clause-medial position.
Whenthis happens, the first argument, ARG1 in this case,becomes discontinuous.
Both portions of the argu-ment, the one that comes before the subordinate con-junction and the one after, are considered to be partof the same argument.
(3) [arg1 clast year?beginning?
?Pudong#?new district)openDE?IChina1?first[CL?medical?institution??drug?purchase?
?service?%center] ?,[conn just?
?because] [arg1 ?oncem?begin?
'relatively5?standardized] ?,[arg2$=operate?8till now?,?trade??medicine??
?over 100 millionyuan?,vknotuyfind?one~case?
?killback] ".
?It is because its operations are standardized that the firstpurchase service center for medical institutions in Chinaopened in the new district of Pudong in the beginning oflast year has not found a single case of kickback afterit has traded 100 million yuan worth of medicine in itsoperation till now.
?Conjoined discourse connectives: The subordi-nate conjunctions can be conjoined in Chinese sothat there are two subordinate clauses each havingone instance of the same subordinate conjunction.In this case, there is still one discourse relation,but ARG1 is the conjunction of the two subordinateclauses.
This is in contrast with English, where onlyone subordinate conjunction is possible and ARG1is linked with a coordinate conjunction, as illustratedin the English translation.
(4) [conn ?,although] [arg1?S?Huang Chunming?
?already?Aover 10cyearvknot?
?publish`8novel seriesAS] ?,[conn?,although] [arg2 lfrom3?
?ccity boys?miss?bus4?to3???
?ticket box4??,?mmiddle?spanASn?
?thirty sevencyear] ?,[connbut] [arg2?S?Huang ChunmingDE??literaryS3theme?,ksome?
?thing?,surprisinglyl5ever?havevknotUCchange] ".
?Although Huang Chunming has not published a novelseries for over ten years, and it spans over thirty sevenyears from ?City Boys Missed Bus?
to ?Ticket Box?,surprisingly some things in Huang Chunming?s literarythemes have never changed.
?2.2 Coordinate conjunctionsThe second type of explicit discourse connectiveswe annotate are coordinate discourse conjunctions.The arguments of coordinate conjunctions are anno-tated in the order in which they appear.
The argu-ment that appears first is labeled ARG1 and the ar-gument that appears next is marked ARG2.
The co-ordinate conjunctions themselves, like subordinateconjunctions, are excluded from the arguments.
(5) Ccrecent years5in?,{Ithe U.S.zeverycyear0k?diabetes??medical expenseabout?z?10 billion{dollar?,<?Indiaclast year0k?diabetes??medical expenses?be8:?
?six hundred and 10 million{dollar?,[arg1?IChina?yet?not have?Nconcrete?Ostatistics] ?,[conn but] [arg2 ?IChina0k?diabetes<?populationcurrently?withzeverycyear???750,000#new??patientDE?
?speed4Oincrease] ".
?In recent years, the medical expenses for diabetes pa-tients in the U.S. is about 10 billion dollars.
Last year themedical expenses for diabetes patients in India is six hun-dred and ten million dollars.
China does not have concretestatistics yet, but its diabetes population is increasing at apace of 750,000 new patients per year.Paired coordinate conjunctions: Like subordi-nate conjunctions, coordinate conjunctions can alsobe paired, as in (6):(6) y?modernI1parentJdifficult?beDE/?place3ulie in[conn QCONN] [arg1 ?
{no way??eliminate?
?blood?in6DflowDE*gtradition] ?,[conn qCONN] [arg2 ?need?
?face#newDEd?value] ".
?The difficulty of being modern parents lies in the factthey can not get rid of the traditional values flowing intheir blood, and they also need to face new values.
?2.3 Adverbial connectivesThe third type of explicit discourse connectives weannotate are discourse adverbials.
A discourse ad-verbial differs from other adverbs in that they requirean antecedent that is a proposition or a set of relatedpropositions.
Generally, the second argument is ad-jacent to the discourse adverbial while the first argu-ment may be long-distance.
By convention, the sec-ond argument that is adjacent to the discourse con-nective is labeled ARG2 and the other argument is86marked as ARG1.
Note that in (7b) that first argu-ment is not adjacent to the discourse adverbial.
(7) a.
{IThe U.S.?
?Chamber of Commerce2?Guangdong?
?Chapter?Chairmanx[uKang Yonghua?
?lawyer`say?,[arg1 ??Clinton?Administration??alreadyL?indicate?will?renew?IChinaDEn?trade??IMFN?
?status] ?,[conn?dtherefore] ?,[arg2 ?thisgtimei`lobbyDE?
:focus?be@thoserelatively?conservativeDE?congressman] ".
?Lawyer Kang Yonghua, chairman of the GuangdongChapter of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, says thatsince the Clinton Administration has already indi-cated that it will renew China?s MFN status, the focusof the lobby this time is on those relatively conserva-tive congressmen.?b.
[arg1 ?IChina1OapproveDE?foreign enterprise?in?,?
?industry?8project?account for?
?seventy percent,?among them??processing\?industry???excessive?]?,?this?with?IChinaN?
?labor force?
?training!,?costrelatively$lowDEI?state of affairs??
?consistent?,[conn ltherefore] [arg2 ?BabsorbASP?
?big volumeN?
?labor force] ".
?In the foreign enterprises that China approved of,industry projects accounts for seventy percent ofthem.
Among them processing projects are exces-sively high.
This is consistent with the current stateof affairs in China where the training and cost of thelabor force is low.
Therefore they absorbed a largeportion of the labor force.
?2.4 Implicit discourse connectivesIn addition to the explicit discourse connectives,there are also implicit discourse connectives thatmust be inferred from adjacent propositions.
Thearguments for implicit discourse connectives aremarked in the order in which they occur, with theargument that occurs first marked as ARG1 and theother argument marked as ARG2.
By conventiona punctuation mark is reserved as the place-holderfor the discourse connective.
Where possible, theannotator is asked to provide an explicit discourseconnective to characterize the type of discourse re-lation.
In (8), for example, a coordinate conjunction?while?
can be used in the place of the implicitdiscourse connective.
(8) [arg1 ?
?among them??export?be?z?
?l:n?17.83 billion{dollar?,'compared withclast year?same?periode?decreasez???
:n1.3 percent] [conn=?
;] [arg2 ??import?zl?:?
?18.27 billion{dollar?,Oincreasez?
?n?o:?34.1 percent] ".
?Among them, export is 17.83 billion, an 1.3 percent in-crease over the same period last year.
Meanwhile, importis 18.27 billion, which is a 34.1 percent increase.
?3 Where are the discourse connectives?In Chinese, discourse connectives are generallyclause-initial or clause-medial, although localizersare clause-final and can be used as discourse con-nective by themselves or together with a preposi-tion.
Subordinate conjunctions, coordinate conjunc-tions and discourse adverbial can all occur in clause-initial as well as clause-medial positions.
The distri-bution of the discourse connectives is not uniform,and varies from discourse connective to discourseconnective.
Some discourse connectives alternatebetween clause-initial and clause-medial positions.The examples in (9) show that ?+?even though?,which forms a paired connective with ?
?but?,occurs in both clause-initial (9a) and clause-medial(9b) positions.
(9) a.
[conn ?+even though] [arg1 ??Asia?someI[countryDE7Kfinancial?turmoil?will?make?theseI[countryDE?LeconomyOgrowth?experience?
?seriousK?impact] ?,[conn but] [arg2 ?towhole?CL?.world?Leconomy??,??otherI[countryDEr?strongOgrowth??momentum?will??compensate?this?one?
?loss] ".
?Even though the financial turmoil in some Asiancountries will affect the economic growth of thesecountries, as far as the economy of the whole worldis concerned, the strong economic growth of othercountries will make up for this loss.?b.
[arg1 ?
"look aheadmcYear of Tiger?,?IChinaDE?Leconomy?train] [conn ?+even though] [arg1?will87khave6?ups and?
?downs] ?,[connbut] [arg2 ?
?as long asN?adjust??measure??timely!,proper?,?&believe?will?Xalong?expectDE;track?
?steadyc1advance] ".
?Looking ahead at the Year of Tiger, even thoughChina?s economic train will have its ups and downs,as long as the adjusting measures are timely andproper, we believe that it will advance steadily alongthe expected track.
?Localizers are a class of words that occur afterclauses or noun phrases to denote temporal or spatialdiscourse relations.
They can introduce a subordi-nate clause by themselves or together with a preposi-tion.
While the preposition is optional, the localizeris not.
When both the preposition and the localizeroccur, they form a paired discourse connective an-choring a discourse relation.
Example (10) showsthe preposition and the localizer ?form a paireddiscourse connective equivalent to the English sub-ordinate conjunction ?when?.
(10) Fca few days ago?,[connwhen] [arg1 P?reporter3at?phere;?interview exclusively??EU??Europe?
?Commission7uto China?L?delegation?head?
?Wei Genshen?
?ambassador?,?ask?he?dcomment?this?onecyear5sinceV?two sidesDE?
?cooperation?Jaccomplishment] [conn?when] ?,[arg2 ?he?little?no??hesitate/DE`say?:/???EU?with?IChinaDE?political'Xrelation!,n?trade'Xrelation?9and3at?]investmentetc.??aspectDE??cooperation3in????c1997?allachieveASPw?significantDEu?progress".0]?
?A few days ago, when this reporter exclusively inter-viewed Wei Genshen, head of the EU Europe Commis-sion delegation to China, and asked him to comment onthe accomplishment of the cooperation between the twosides in the past year, without any hesitation he said:?There was significant progress in the political relations,trade relations, and the cooperation in trade, etc.
betweenEU and China.?
?4 What counts as an argument?This section examines the syntactic composition ofarguments to discourse connectives in Chinese.
Ar-guments of discourse relations are propositional sit-uations such as events, states, or properties.
As suchan argument of a discourse relation can be realizedas a clause or multiple clauses, a sentence or mul-tiple sentences.
Typically, a subordinate conjunc-tion introduces clauses that are arguments in a dis-course relation.
Discourse adverbials and coordinateconjunctions, however, can take one or more sen-tences to be their arguments.
The examples in (11)shows that arguments to discourse connectives canbe a single clause (11a), multiple clauses (11b), asingle sentence (11c) and multiple sentences (11d)respectively.
(11) a.
[conn ?+even though] [arg1 8cthis year?January?to?
?November?IChina1Oapprove|^utilize]foreign investment?8project?number?and?
?contract]foreign investment7amount?both'compared withclast year?same?periodk?havee?decrease] ?,[connbut] [arg2 ?Sactually|^use]foreign investment7amountEstill'compared withclast year?same?periodOincreaseASPz????
:"?27.01 percent] ".
?Even though the number of projects that use foreigninvestment that China approved of and contractualforeign investment both decreased compared with thesame period last year, the foreign investment that hasactually been used increased 27.01 percent.?b.
[conn dubecause] [arg1 d?Maotai Liquor??brew??processE,complicated?,)production?
?cyclelong] ?,[conn?therefore] [arg2?its?production volume?
?veryk?limited] ".
?Because the brewing process of Maotai liquor iscomplicated and its production cycle is long, its pro-duction volume is very limited.?c.
[arg1 ?IChinese?
?table tennis$?athletevknot?\participate1??twenty-ninth?andn?thirtieth3CL?
?mword table tennis tournament] ".
[conn ?dtherefore]?,[arg2 E?replicateDE7?gold medal?in?)include?will?will?1holdDE1o??forty-fifth3CL?
?mworld table tennis tournament7?gold medal] ".88?Chinese athletes did not attend the twenty-ninth andthe thirtieth world table tennis tournaments.
There-fore, The replicated gold medals also include the goldmedals in the yet-to-be-held forty-fifth world tourna-ment.?d.
[arg1 ?8return after?fore?MacaoDE?5futureu?prospect?be|plus??or6minus??khave?
?n53 percentDE<people?
?answer?notknow] ".
[conn but] [arg2 ?utoUcan?notUcan?accept?likelHong KongeMacao?same?,?with7??oneIcountry?two?system8?)?resolveTaiwan?Kissue?,Kkhave?
?27 percentDE??peopleL?indicate7??notknow8??,??
?59 percentDE??peopleL?indicate7??notUcan?accept8?]
".
?Is the return of sovereignty (to China) a plus or mi-nus for Macao?s future?
53 percent of people saythey don?t know.
But to the question of whether theyaccept the resolution of the Taiwan issue with ?onecountry, two systems?
like Hong Kong and Macao,59 percent of the people say ?they cannot accept?
.
?5 Argument ScopeDetermining the scope of an argument to a discourseconnective has proved to be the most challengingpart of the discourse annotation.
A lot of the effortgoes into deciding when certain text units should beincluded in or excluded from the argument of a dis-course connective.
Under our annotation scheme,the prepositional phrases, which generally precedethe subject in a Chinese clause, are included in theargument of a discourse connective, as illustrated in(12a).
The material in the main clause that embedsa discourse relation, however, are excluded, as in(12b).
(12) a. ,in addition?,[arg1 3in>srecreation?zculture)?life"ylackDE?
?Dongguan] ?,[conn ?
?unless] [arg1 ?verykhave?education9?enthusiasm] ?,[conn ?Kotherwise] [arg2?veryJdifficult34keep?teacher] ".?
In addition, in Dongguan where recreational ac-tivities are lacking, unless they are very enthusiasticabout education, it is very hard to keep teachers.?b.
?
?fRen Zhigang?alsoL?indicate?,[conn dubecause] [arg1?lHong Kong?and{Ithe U.S.Einterestdiscrepancy?reach?z?
?125:point] ?,[arg2XJif?|market?in?lHong Kong?Leconomicc?prospect?
?full of&%confidence?,Estillkhave~reduceEinterest?mspace] ".
?Ren Zhigang also indicated that because the inter-est discrepancy between Hong Kong and the U.S.reaches 125 point, if the market is fully confident inthe economic prospect of Hong Kong, there is stillroom for reducing interest rates.
?A lot of the challenge in determining the scope ofan argument stems from the fact that discourse struc-tures are recursive.
As such identifying the scope ofan argument is effectively determining how the dis-course relations are hierarchically organized.
Thisis illustrated in (13), where the discourse relationanchored by the coordinate conjunction ?but?
isembedded within the discourse relation anchored bythe subordinate conjunction XJ?if?.
The ambigu-ity is whether the conditional clause introduced by?XJ?
has scope over one or two of the clauses co-ordinated by?but?.
(13) wreport@?believe?,[connXJif] [arg1 ?Leconomy?and7Kfinance?policy?effective] ?,[arg2 [arg1 ??Asia/?region?Leconomy?"expect3in???
?c1999m?begin?,recover] ?,[connbut] [arg2?not?will?like$?xMexico?andC??Argentina3in????1994?to????c19957Kfinance?
?crisis after@like that?yoccurp?high-speed?/V-shaped?big?,recovery]] ".
?The report believes that if the economic and financialpolicies are effective, the economy of Asia is expectedto recover, but there will not be a V-shaped high-speedrecovery like the one after the financial crisis of Mexicoand Argentina in 1994 and 1995.?Given our bottom-up approach in which discourseconnectives anchor binary discourse relations, wedo not explicitly annotate hierarchical structures be-tween the arguments.
However, such discourse re-lations can be deduced when some discourse rela-tions are recursively embedded within another as ar-guments to another discourse connective.896 Sense DisambiguationAlthough discourse connectives are often consid-ered to be a closed set, some lexical items in Chi-nese can be used as both a discourse connective anda non-discourse connective.
In this case it is im-portant to tease them part.
There are also discourseconnectives that have different senses, and it is po-tentially beneficial for certain NLP applications todisambiguate these senses.
Machine Translation, forexample, would need to translate the different sensesinto different discourse connectives in the target lan-guage.
The examples in (14) shows the differentsenses of, which can be translated into ?while?
(14a), ?but?
(14c), ?and?
(14d) and ?instead?
(14e).Note that in (14e) it is important for the first argu-ment to be negated by ??not?.
In (14b), however,it is not a discourse connective.
It does not seem tocontribute any meaning to the sentence and is prob-ably just there to satisfy some prosodic constraint.
(14) a.
???
?c1997u?developedI[country?Leconomic/?situationDEA:characteristic?be[arg1 {IU.S.Ogrowr?strongly][connwhile] [arg2 FJapan?Leconomy?^weak] ?,{IU.S.?LeconomicO?growthOestimate?bez?
?n:?3.7 percent?,FJapan=only?bez??
":l0.8 percent".
?The economic situation in developed countries in1997 is that the U.S. (economy) grows strongly whilethe Japanese economy is weak.
The U.S. economicgrowth rate was estimated to be 3.7 percent while theJapanese economy grows at 0.8 percent.?b.
Y?Shuidongmu?Development Zone?locateduat?western Guangdong/?regionDEj?
?Maoming city?Sterritory?,??coveragel?
?over eighty??
?psquare kilometer?,?be?Asuit?Lethylene??projectDEI?need[??]
??establishDE?one?CL Udownstream\?process?/base".
?Shuidong Development Zone, located in MaomingCity of western Guangdong occupies an area of overeighty square kilometers.
It is a downstream process-ing base established to meet the need of the ethyleneproject.?c.
Ucan)produce[arg1 ?IChina?notUcan)produce] [connbut] [arg2 qagain?badlyI?need]DE??drugDE?
?enterprise?Enterprises that can produce drugs that China badlyneeds but cannot produce?d.
3?Jilin ProvincehS?Huichun City?mayor7a;Jin Shuoren`say?:/?ISinternational?communityDE|?support?and?
?participation?,?utohSHuichunDEmudevelopmentm?opening to the outside?playDE[arg1 ?4positive][connand] [arg2 '?key]DE?^role".0?
?Jing Shuoren, mayor of Huichun City of JilinProvince said: ?The support and participation of theinternational community played a positive and keyrole in Huichun?s development and opening up to theoutside.?e.
[arg1 ?this,certainly?not?be{?historyDE|?coincidence]?,[conninstead] [arg2 ?be{?historyDE?\accumulation?and=transition] ".
?This certainly is not historical coincidence.
Insteadit is historical accumulation and transition.
?7 Discourse Connective VariationThe flip side of sense disambiguation is that one dis-course relation is often realized with different dis-course connectives due to the long evolution of theChinese language and morphological processes likesuoxie, which is one form of abbreviation.
Theexamples in (15) shows the different variations ofthe discourse relation of concession.
The differentforms of the discourse connective are so similar thatthey can hardly be considered to be different dis-course connectives.
In principle, any combinationof part 1 and part 2 from Table 7 can form a paireddiscourse connective, subject to some non-discourserelated constraints.
In (15a), for example, the abbre-viated ?can only occur in clause-medial positions.
(15b) shows the second part of the paired discourseconnective can be dropped without changing the se-mantics of the discourse relation.
(15c) shows thatthe second part of the paired discourse connectivecan be combined with another discourse connective.
(15) a.
[arg1 ?Wang Xiang] [conn ?although] [arg1cL?zover fifty years old] ?,[connbut] [arg2 ?his90gloss discourse connectivesalthough [1] ?,, ?`, ?[2]?,,?
?, ?
?,%,,,?Lbecause [1]?
?,?, du[2] ?
?if [1]XJ,e, bX[2]?therefore ?d, u?Table 1: Discourse connective variation?abundantDE??energy?and?$quickDEg?thinking?,?give<people?with?one?CL]?
?challengerDE<?impression] ".
?Although Wang Xiang is over fifty years old, but hisabundant energy and quick thinking gives people theimpression of a challenger.?b.
[arg1 	3externalDE?
?environment] [conn ?,although][arg1 UCchangeASP] ?,[arg2 S%heart@that?CL?
"long forP?memory?and8?sense of belongingDEI?need?veryJdifficultUCchange] ".
?Although the external environment has changed, theneed of longing for memory and sense of belongingis very difficult to change.?c.
[arg1 ?
?mainland?policy] [conn ?,although] [arg1?
??vulnerable to criticism] ?,[conn but%but] [arg2 ?be?kall?policyDE?
:basis] ?,??any??<candidate?all?{cannot?ignore".
?Although the mainland policy is vulnerable to crit-icism, it is the basis of all policies and no candidateafford to ignore it.
?8 ConclusionWe examined the range of discourse connective weplan to annotate for the Chinese Discourse Treebankproject.
We have shown that while arguments to sub-ordinate and coordinate conjunctions can be identi-fied locally, arguments to discourse adverbials maybe long-distance.
We also examined the distributionof the discourse connectives in Chinese and the syn-tactic composition and the scope of the arguments indiscourse relations.
We have shown the most chal-lenging issue in discourse annotation is determin-ing the text span of a discourse argument and thisis partly due to the hierarchical nature of discoursestructures.
We have discussed the need to addresssense disambiguation and discourse connective vari-ation in our annotation of Chinese discourse connec-tives.ReferencesLynn Carlson, Daniel Marcu, and Mary Ellen Okurowski.2003.
Building a Discourse-Tagged Corpus in theFramework of Rhetorical Structure Theory.
In CurrentDirections in Discourse and Dialogue.
Kluwer Aca-demic Publishers.William Mann and Sandra Thompson.
1988.
RhetoricalSturcture Theory.
Text, 8(3):243?281.E.
Miltsakaki, R. Prasad, A. Joshi, and B. Webber.
2004a.The Penn Discourse Treebank.
In Proceedings of the4th International Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation, Lisbon, Portugal.E.
Miltsakaki, R. Prasad, A. Joshi, and B. Webber.2004b.
The Penn Discourse Treebank.
In Proceedingsof the NAACL/HLT Workshop on Frontiers in CorpusAnnotation, Boston, Massachusetts.Martha Palmer, Dan Gildea, and Paul Kingsbury.
2005.The proposition bank: An annotated corpus of seman-tic roles.
Computational Linguistics, 31(1).B.
Webber and A. Joshi.
1998.
Anchoring a lexi-calized tree-adjoining grammar for discourse.
In InACL/COLING Workshop on Discourse Relations andDiscourse Markers, Montreal, Canada.Bonnie Webber, Alistair Knott, Matthew Stone, and Ar-avind Joshi.
1999.
Discourse Relations: A Structuraland Presuppositional Account using Lexicalized TAG.In Meeting of the Association of Computational Lin-guistics, College Park, MD.Bonnie Webber, Aravind Joshi, Matthew Stone, and Al-istair Knott.
2003.
Anaphora and discourse structure.Computational Linguistics, 29(4):545?587.Nianwen Xue and Martha Palmer.
2003.
Annotating thePropositions in the Penn Chinese Treebank.
In TheProceedings of the 2nd SIGHAN Workshop on ChineseLanguage Processing, Sapporo, Japan.Nianwen Xue, Fei Xia, Fu dong Chiou, and MarthaPalmer.
To appear.
The Penn Chinese Treebank:Phrase Structure Annotation of a Large Corpus.
Natu-ral Language Engineering.91
