Proceedings of the Workshop on Frontiers in Corpus Annotation II: Pie in the Sky, pages 21?28,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsParallel Entity and Treebank AnnotationAnn BiesLinguistic Data Consortium3600 Market Street, 810Philadelphia, PA 19104bies@ldc.upenn.eduSeth KulickInstitute for Researchin Cognitive Science3401 Walnut StreetSuite 400APhiladelphia, PA 19104skulick@linc.cis.upenn.eduMark MandelLinguistic Data Consortium3600 Market Street, 810Philadelphia, PA 19104mamandel@ldc.upenn.eduAbstractWe describe a parallel annotation ap-proach for PubMed abstracts.
It includesboth entity/relation annotation and a tree-bank containing syntactic structure, with agoal of mapping entities to constituents inthe treebank.
Crucial to this approach is amodification of the Penn Treebank guide-lines and the characterization of entities asrelation components, which allows the in-tegration of the entity annotation with thesyntactic structure while retaining the ca-pacity to annotate and extract more com-plex events.1 IntroductionA great deal of annotation effort for many differentcorpora has been devoted to annotation for entitiesand syntactic structure (treebanks).
However, pre-vious efforts at treebanking have largely been inde-pendent of the constituency of entities, and previousefforts at entity annotation have likewise been inde-pendent of corresponding layers of syntactic struc-ture.
We describe here a corpus being developedfor biomedical information extraction with levels ofboth entity annotation and treebank annotation, witha goal that entities can be mapped to constituents inthe treebank.We are collaborating with researchers in the Di-vision of Oncology at The Children?s Hospital ofPhiladelphia, for the purpose of automatically min-ing the corpus of cancer literature for those as-sociations that link specified variations in individ-ual genes with known malignancies.
In particular,we are interested in extracting three entities (Gene,Variation event, and Malignancy) in the followingrelationship: Gene X with genomic Variation eventY is correlated with Malignancy Z.
For example,WT1 is deleted in Wilms Tumor #5.
In addition, Vari-ation events are themselves relations, consisting ofentities representing different aspects of a Variationevent.Mapping entities to treebank constituents is a de-sirable goal since the entities can then be viewedas semantic types associated with syntactic con-stituents, and we expect that automated analyses ofthese related levels will interact in a mutually rein-forcing and beneficial way for development of sta-tistical taggers.In this paper we describe aspects of the entityand treebank annotation that allow this mappingto be largely successful.
Potentially large enti-ties that would otherwise cut across syntactic con-stituents are decomposed into components of a re-lation.
While this is worthwhile by itself on con-ceptual grounds for entity definition, and was in factnot done for reasons of mapping to syntactic con-stituents, it makes such a mapping easier.
The tree-bank annotation has been modified from the PennTreebank guidelines in various ways, such as greaterstructure for prenominal modifiers.
Again, whilethis would have been done regardless of the map-ping of entities, it does make such a mapping moresuccessful.Previous work on integrating syntactic structurewith entity information, as well as relation infor-21mation, is described in (Miller et al, 2000).
Ourwork is in much the same spirit, although we donot integrate relation annotation into the syntactictrees.
PubMed abstracts are quite different from thenewswire sources used in that earlier work, with sev-eral consequences discussed throughout, such as theuse of discontinuous entities.Section 2 discusses some of the main issuesaround the development of the guidelines for en-tity annotation, and Section 3 discusses some of thechanges that have been made for the treebank guide-lines.
Section 4 describes the annotation workflowand the resulting merged representation.
Section5 evaluates the mapping between entities and con-stituents, and Section 6 is the conclusion.2 Guidelines for Entity AnnotationHere we give a summary of the main features ofour annotation guidelines.
We have been influencedin this by the annotation guidelines for the Auto-matic Content Extraction (ACE) project (Consor-tium, 2004).1 However, our source materials aremedical abstracts from PubMed2, and important dif-ferences between the domains have required sig-nificant changes and additions to many definitions,guidelines, and procedures.Most obviously, the vocabulary is very different.Many of the tokens in our source texts are chemicalterms with a complex productive morphology, and acertain number are unique in PubMed.
Many oth-ers are strings of notation, like S37F, often contain-ing relevant entity references that must be isolated(S, 37, and F).
And even apart from these, we arelooking at a very different dialect of English fromthat used by the Wall Street Journal and the Asso-ciated Press.
Annotation of English newswire re-quires native English competency; entity annotationof biomedical English requires a background in bi-ology as well.The entity instances in the text are also qualita-tively different.
Instead of individual pieces of thephysical or social universe ?
Emanuel Sosa, the Eif-fel Tower, the man in the yellow hat ?
we have ab-1Another source of influence is previous work in annota-tion for biomedical information extraction, such as (Ohta et al,2002).
Space prevents adequate discussion of here of the differ-ences.2http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/stractions, categories that are not to be confused withtheir instantiations: neuroblastoma, K-ras (a gene),codon 42.3 We are not currently annotating pronom-inal or other forms of coreference.2.1 Entities Annotated2.1.1 Gene EntityFor the sake of this project the definition for?Gene Entity?
has two significant characteristics.First, as just mentioned, ?Gene?
refers to a concep-tual entity as opposed to the specific manifestationof a gene (e.g., not the ?K-ras?
in some specific cellin some individual, but an abstraction that cannot bepointed to).Second, ?Gene?
refers to a composite entity as op-posed to the strict biological definition.
There areoften ambiguities in the usage of the entity names.
Iis sometimes unclear as to whether the gene or pro-tein is being referenced, and the same name can referto the gene or the protein at different locations in thesame document.
In a similar way as the ACE projectallows ?geopolitical?
entities to have different roles,such as ?location?
or ?organization?, we consider a?Gene?
to be a composite entity that can have differ-ent roles throughout a document.
Therefore, Geneentity mentions can have types Gene-generic, Gene-protein, and Gene-RNA.2.1.2 Variation Events as RelationsAs mentioned in the introduction, Variationevents are relations between entities representingdifferent aspects of a Variation; specifically, a Vari-ation is a relationship between two or more ofthe following entities: Type (e.g., point mutation,translocation, or inversion), Location (e.g., codon14, 1p36.1, or base pair 278), Original-State andAltered-State (e.g., Thymine).The entities as such are independent and uncon-nected.
We add a level of relation to annotate theassociations between them: For example, the textfragment a single nucleotide substitution at codon249, predicting a serine to cysteine amino acid sub-stitution (S249C) contains the entities:Variation-type substitutionVariation-location codon 2493This domain shows no such clear distinction between Nameand Nominal mentions as in the texts covered by ACE.22Variation-state-original serineVariation-state-altered cysteineThese entities are annotated individually but are alsocollected into a single Variation relation.It is also possible for a Variation relation to arisefrom a more compact collection of entities.
For ex-ample, the text S249C consists of three entities col-lected into a Variation relation:Variation-location 249Variation-state-original SVariation-state-altered CThese four components represent the key ele-ments necessary to describe any genomic variationevent.
Variations are often underspecified in the lit-erature.
For example, the first relation above hasall four components while the second is missingthe Variation-type.
Characterizing individual Varia-tions as relations among such components providesus with a great deal of flexibility.The ?Gene?
entities are analogous to the ACEgeopolitical entity, in that the second part of the en-tity names (?-RNA?, ?-generic?,?-protein?)
disam-biguates the metonymy of the ?Gene?.
The subtypesof the Variation entities, in contrast, indicate differ-ent kinds of entities in their own right, which canalso function as components of a Variation relation.2.1.3 MalignancyThe Malignancy annotation guidelines were un-der development during the annotation of the corpusdescribed here.
While they have since been morecompletely defined, they are not included as part ofthe annotated files discussed here, and so are not fur-ther discussed in this paper.2.2 Discontinuous EntitiesWe have introduced a mechanism we call ?chain-ing?
to annotate discontinuous entities, which maybe more common in abstracts than in full text be-cause of the pressure to reduce word count.
For ex-ample, in K- and N-ras there are two entities, K-rasand N-ras, of which only the second is a solid blockof text.
Our entity annotators are allowed to changethe tokenization if necessary to isolate the compo-nents of K-ras:text K- and N-rasoriginal tokenization [K-][and][N-ras]Multiple TokensEntity Single Non-Type Tokens chains ChainsGene-generic 104 6 0Gene-protein 921 349 6Gene-RNA 1987 156 36Var-location 95 445 125Var-state-orig 151 5 0Var-state-altered 162 10 0Var-type 235 271 1Table 1: Entity Instancesmodified tokenization[K][-][and][N][-][ras]entity annotation1.
K- ... ras (chain with separated to-kens)2.
N-ras (contiguous tokens)2.3 Entity FrequenciesTable 1 shows the number of instances of each of theentity types in the 318 abstracts, discussed furtherin Section 4, that have been both entity annotatedand treebanked.
We separate the entities into single-token and multiple-token categories since it is onlythe multiple-token categories that raise an issue formapping constituents.3 Treebank AnnotationThe Penn Treebank II guidelines (Bies et al, 1995)were followed as closely as possible, but the natureof the biomedical corpus has made some changesnecessary or desirable.
We have also taken thisopportunity to address several long-standing issueswith the original set of guidelines, with regard to NPstructure in particular.
This has resulted in the intro-duction of one new node label for sub-NP nominalsubstrings (NML).
One additional empty category(*P*) has been introduced in order to improve thematch-up of chained entity categories with treebanknodes.
It is used as a placeholder to represent dis-tributed modification in nominals and does not rep-resent the trace of movement.233.1 Tokenization/Part-of-SpeechWe have also adopted several changes in word-leveltokenization, leading to a number of part-of-speechand structural differences as well.
Many hyphenatedwords are now treated as separate tokens (New York- based would be four tokens, for example).
Thesehyphens now have the part-of-speech tag HYPH.
Ifthe separated prefix is a morphological unit that doesnot exist as a free-standing word, it has the part-of-speech tag AFX.
With chemical names and scien-tific notation in the biomedical corpus in particular,spaces and punctuation may occur within a single?token?, which will have a single POS tag.3.2 Right-Branching DefaultWe assume a default binary right-branching struc-ture under any NP and NML node.
Each daughterof the phrase (whether a single token or itself a con-stituent node) is assumed to have scope over every-thing to its right.
This means that every daughteralso forms a constituent with everything to its right.This assumption makes the annotation process formulti-token nominals less complex and the resultingtrees more legible, but still allows us to readily de-rive constituent nodes not explicitly represented.
Forexample, in(NP (JJ primary) (NN liver)(NN cancer))we assume that ?liver cancer?
is a constituent, andthat ?primary?
has scope over it.So, although we do not show the intermediatenodes explicitly in our annotation, our assumedstructure for this NP could be derived as(NP (JJ primary)(newnode (NN liver)(newnode (NN cancer))))As discussed in Section 5, entities sometimes mapto such implicit constituents, and a node needs tobe added to make the constituent explicit so the theentity can be mapped to it.3.3 New Node Level for Non-Right-Branching:NMLWe use the NML node label to mark nominal sub-constituents that do not follow the default binaryright-branching structure.
Any two or more non-final elements that form a constituent are bound to-gether by NML.
(NP (NML (NN human)(NN liver)(NN tumor))(NN analysis))3.4 New Empty Category for DistributedReadings within NP: *P*As discussed in Section 2.2, discontinuous enti-ties are annotated using the ?chaining?
mechanism.Analogously, we have introduced a placeholder,*P*, for distributed material in the treebank.
It isused exclusively in coordinated nominal structures,placed in coordinated elements that are missing ei-ther a distributed head or a distributed premodifier.In K- and N-ras, the coordinated premodifier K- ismissing the distributed head ras, so the placeholder*P* is inserted after K- and coindexed with ras:(NP (NP (NN K) (HYPH -)(NML-1 (-NONE- *P*)))(CC and)(NP (NN N) (HYPH - )(NML-1 (NN ras))))This creates constituent nodes K-ras and N-rasthat align with the entities being represented bychaining.44 Annotation ProcessThe annotation process comprises the followingsteps: Paragraph and sentence annotation (includ-ing the delimitation of irrelevant text such as au-thor names); tokenization; entity annotation; part-of-speech (POS) annotation; treebanking; mergedrepresentation.Entity annotation precedes POS annotation, sincethe entity annotators often have to correct the tok-enization, which affects the POS labels.
For exam-ple, nephro- and hepatocarcinoma refers to two en-tities, nephrocarcinoma and hepatocarcinoma, andso the entity annotator would split hepatocarcinomainto two tokens, for chaining nephro and carcinoma4In spite of the apparent similarity between *P* and rightnode raising structures (*RNR*), they are not interchangeableas the shared element often occurs to the left rather than theright (e.g., codon 12 or 13 in Section 5.3).24(see Section 2.2).
Since the entity annotators are notqualified for POS annotation, doing POS annotationafter entity annotation allows the POS annotators toannotate any such tokenization changes.Treebank annotation uses the same tokenizationas for the corresponding entity file.
Continuing theabove example, the treebank file would have sepa-rate tokens for hepato and carcinoma.
Note that thiswould be the case even if we did not have the goalof mapping entities to constituents.
It arises from themore minimal requirement of maintaining identicaltokenization in the treebank and entity files, and soleads to changes in treebank annotation such as dis-cussed in Section 3.4.All of the annotation steps except entity annota-tion use automated taggers (or a parser in the case oftreebanking),5 producing annotation that then getshand-corrected.The use of the parser for producing a parse forcorrection by the treebankers include a somewhatunusual feature that arises from our parallel entityand treebank annotation.
The parser that we are us-ing, (Bikel, 2004),6 allows prebracketing of partsof the parser input, so that the parser will respectthe prebracketing.
We use this ability to prebracketentities, which can also help to disambiguate theconstituencies for prenominal modifiers, which canoften be unclear for annotators without a medicalbackground.
For example, the input to the parsermight contain something like:...(NN activation)(IN of)(PRP$ its)(* (NN tyrosine)(NN kinase) )(NN activity)...indicating by the (* ) that tyrosine kinase shouldbe a constituent.
(It is a Gene-protein.
)Our first release of data, PennBioIE Release 0.9(http://bioie.ldc.upenn.edu/publications), contains 1157 oncologyPubMed abstracts, all annotated for entities andPOS, of which 318 have also been treebanked.
Thewebsite also contains full documentation for the5Entity taggers have been developed (McDonald et al,2004) but have not yet been integrated into the project.6Available at http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~dbikel/software.html#stat-parser;sentence 4 Span:331..605;In the present study, we screened for;the K-ras exon 2 point mutations in a;group of 87 gynecological neoplasms;(82 endometrial carcinomas, four;carcinomas of the uterine cervix and;one uterine carcinosarcoma) using the;non-isotopic PCR-SSCP-direct;sequencing techniques.
;[373..378]:gene-rna:"K-ras";[379..385]:variation-location:"exon 2";[386..401]:variation-type:"point mutations"(SENT(S(PP (IN:[331..333] In)(NP (DT:[334..337] the)(JJ:[338..345] present)(NN:[346..351] study)))(,:[351..352] ,)(NP-SBJ (PRP:[353..355] we))(VP (VBD:[356..364] screened)(PP-CLR (IN:[365..368] for)(NP (DT:[369..372] the)(NN:[373..378] K-ras)(NML (NN:[379..383] exon)(CD:[384..385] 2))(NN:[386..391] point)(NNS:[392..401] mutations)))(PP (IN:[402..404] in)(NP(NP (DT:[405..406] a)(NN:[408..413] group))(PP (IN:[414..416] of)(NP (CD:[417..419] 87)(JJ:[420..433]gynecological)(NNS:[434..443]neoplasms)[...]Figure 1: Example .mrg filevarious annotation guidelines mentioned in thispaper.4.1 Example of Merged OutputThe 318 files that have been both treebanked and en-tity annotated are also available in a merged ?.mrg?format.
The treebank and entity annotations are bothstand-off, referring to character spans in the samesource file, and we take advantage of this so that themerged representation relates the entities and con-stituents by these spans.
Figure 1 shows a fragmentof one such .mrg file.This .mrg file excerpt shows the text of sen-tence 4 in the file, which spans the character offsets331..605.
Each entity is listed by span (which can in-25clude several tokens), entity type, and the text of theentity.
The treebank part is the same basic format asthe .mrg files from the Penn Treebank, except thateach terminal has the format(POSTag:[from..to] terminal)where [from..to] is that terminal?s span in thesource file.The first entity listed, K-ras, is a Gene-RNA entitywith span [373..378], which corresponds to thesingle token:(NN:[373..378] K-ras)The second entity, exon 2, is a Variation-locationwith span [379..385], which corresponds to thetwo tokens:(NN:[379..383] exon)(CD:[384..385] 2)The third entity, point mutations, is a Variation-typewith span [386..401], which corresponds to thetwo tokens:(NN:[386..391] point)(NNS:[392..401] mutations)By including the terminal span information in thetreebank, we make explicit how the tokens that makeup the entities are treated in the treebank representa-tion.5 Entity-Constituent MappingOne of our goals for the release of the corpus is toallow users to choose how they wish to handle theintegration of the entity and treebank information.By providing the corresponding spans for both as-pects of the annotation, we provide the raw materialfor any integrated approach.We therefore do not attempt to force the entitiesand constituents to line up perfectly.
However, giventhe parallel annotation just illustrated, we can an-alyze how close we come to the ideal of the en-tities behaving as semantic types on syntactic con-stituents.5.1 Mapping CategoriesLeaving aside chains for the moment, we categorizeeach entity/treebank mapping in one of three ways:Exact match There is a node in the tree that yieldsexactly the entity.
For example, the entity exon 2 inFigure 1;[379..385]:variation-location:"exon 2"corresponds exactly to the NML node in Figure 1(NML (NN:[379..383] exon)(CD:[384..385] 2))Missing node There is no node in the tree thatyields exactly that entity, but it is possible to add anode to the tree that would yield the entity.
A com-mon reason for this is that the default right branch-ing treebank annotation (Section 3.2) does not makeexplicit the required node.For example, the entity point mutations in Figure1;[386..401]:variation-type:"point mutations"does not correspond to a node in the relevant part ofthe tree:(NP (DT:[369..372] the)(NN:[373..378] K-ras)(NML (NN:[379..383] exon)(CD:[384..385] 2))(NN:[386..391] point)(NNS:[392..401] mutations))However, it is possible to insert a node into the treeto yield exactly the entity:(NP (DT:[369..372] the)(NN:[373..378] K-ras)(NML (NN:[379..383] exon)(CD:[384..385] 2))(newnode (NN:[386..391] point)(NNS:[392..401]mutations)))Note that this node corresponds exactly to the im-plicit constituency assumed by the right branchingrule.
For our own internal research purposes we havegenerated a version of the treebank with such nodesadded, although they are not in the current release.Crossing The most troublesome case, in which theentity does not match a node in the tree and also cutsacross constituent boundaries, so it is not even pos-sible to add a node yielding the entity.
Typically this26Exact Miss- Cross-Entity Type Total Match ing ingGene-generic 6 4 1 1Gene-protein 349 236 103 10Gene-RNA 156 115 35 6Var-location 445 348 68 29Var-state-orig 5 3 1 1Var-state-altered 10 8 0 2Var-type 271 123 142 6Total 1242 837 350 55Table 2: Matching Status of Non-Chained MultipleToken Instancesis due to an entity containing text corresponding toa prepositional phrase.
For example, the sentenceOne ER showed a G-to-T mutation inthe second position of codon 12has the entity[1280..1307]:variation-location:"second positionof codon 12"The relevant part of the corresponding tree is(PP-LOC (IN:[1272..1274] in)(NP(NP (DT:[1276..1279] the)(JJ:[1280..1286] second)(NN:[1287..1295] position))(PP (IN:[1296..1298] of)(NP (NN:[1299..1304] codon)(CD:[1305..1307] 12)))))Due to the inclusion of the determiner in the NPthe second position, while it is absent from the en-tity definition which does include the following PP,it is not possible to add a node to the tree yieldingexactly second position of codon 12.7 It is possible7The inclusion of the PP in an entity can be a problem forthe constituent mapping even aside from the determiner issue.It is possible for the PP, such as of codon 12, to be followed byanother PP, such as in K-ras.
Since all PPs are attached at thesame level, of codon 12 and in K-ras are sisters, and so, evenif the determiner was included in the entity name, there is noconstituent consisting of just the second position of codon 12.However, in that case it is then possible to add a node yield-ing the NP and first PP.
A similar issue sometimes arises whenattempting to relate Propbank arguments to tree constituents.Exact Not ExactEntity Type Total Match MatchGene-generic 0 0 0Gene-protein 6 4 2Gene-RNA 36 29 7Var-location 125 103 22Var-state-orig 0 0 0Var-state-altered 0 0 0Var-type 1 0 1Total 168 136 32Table 3: Matching Status of Chained Multiple TokenInstancesto relax the requirements on exact match to includethe determiner.8However, one of our initial goals in this investi-gation was to determine whether this sort of limitedcrossing is indeed a major source of the mappingmismatches.5.2 Overall Mapping ResultsTable 2 is a breakdown of how well the (non-chain)entities can be mapped to constituents.
Here we areconcerned only with entities that consist of multipletokens, since single-token entities can of course mapdirectly to the relevant token.The number of crossing cases is relatively small.One reason for this is the use of relations for break-ing potentially large entities into component parts,since the component entities either already map toan entity or can easily be made to do so by mak-ing implicit constituents explicit to disambiguate thetree structure.
The crossing cases tend to be ones inwhich the entities are in a sense a bit too ?big?, suchas including a prepositional phrase.98Another alternative would be to modify the treatment ofnoun phrases and determiners in the treebank annotation to bemore akin to DPs.
However, this has proved to be an impracticaladdition to the annotation process.9As discussed in Section 4, we are prebracketing entities inthe parses prepared for the treebankers to correct.
There are twopossibilities for how the entities can therefore ever cross tree-bank constituents: (1) the treebank annotation was done beforewe started doing such prebracketing, so the treebank annotatorwas not aware of the entities, or (2) the prebracketing was in-275.3 Chained EntitiesTable 3 shows the matching status of multiple tokeninstances that are also chains (and so were not in-cluded in Table 2).
The presence of chains is mostlylocalized to certain entity types, and the mapping ismostly successful.
Variation-location contains manyof the chains due to the occurrences of phrases suchas codon 12 or 13, which map exactly to the corre-sponding use of the *P* placeholder, such as:(NP (NP(NML-1 (NN codon))(CD 12))(CC or)(NP(NML-1 (-NONE- *P*))(CD 13)))Cases that do not map exactly are ones in whichthe syntactic context does not permit the use ofthe placeholder *P*.
For example, the text spe-cific codons (12, 13, and 61), has three discontin-uous entities (codons..12, codons..13, codons..61),but the parenthetical context does not permit usingthe placeholder *P*:(NP (JJ specific) (NNS codons)(PRN (-LRB- -LRB-)(NP (NP (CD 12))(, ,)(NP (CD 13))(, ,) (CC and)(NP (CD 61)))(-RRB- -RRB-)))and so this example contains three mismatches.6 ConclusionWe have described here parallel syntactic and entityannotation and how changes in the guidelines facil-itate a mapping between entities and syntactic con-stituents.
Our main purpose in this paper has been toinvestigate the success of this mapping.
As Tables 2and 3 show, once we make explicit the implicit right-branching binary structure, only 6.2%10 of the enti-ties cannot be mapped directly to a node in the tree.It also appears likely that a significant percentage ofeven the non-matching cases can match as well, witha slight relaxation of the matching requirement (e.g.,allowing entities to have an optional determiner).deed done, but the treebank annotator could not abide by theresulting tree and modified the parser output accordingly.101410 total multiple token entities, both chained and non-chained, with 87 cases that cannot be mapped (55 crossing, 32chained non-exact match).We view this in part as a successful experimentillustrating how both linguistic content and entityannotation can be enhanced by their interaction.We expect this enhancement to be useful both forbiomedical information extraction in particular andmore generally for the development of statisticalsystems that can take into account different levelsof annotation in a mutually beneficial way.AcknowledgementsThe project described in this paper is based at the In-stitute for Research in Cognitive Science at the Uni-versity of Pennsylvania and is supported by grantEIA-0205448 from the National Science Founda-tion?s Information Technology Research (ITR) pro-gram.
We would like to thank Yang Jin, Mark Liber-man, Eric Pancoast, Colin Warner, Peter White, andScott Winters for their comments and assistance, aswell as the invaluable feedback of all the annotatorslisted at http://bioie.ldc.upenn.edu/index.jsp?page=aboutus.html.ReferencesAnn Bies, Mark Ferguson, Karen Katz, and Robert Mac-Intyre.
1995.
Bracketing guidelines for Treebank IIStyle, Penn Treebank Project.
Tech report MS-CIS-95-06, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.Daniel M. Bikel.
2004.
On the Parameter Space of Lex-icalized Statistical Parsing Models.
Ph.D. thesis, De-partment of Computer and Information Sciences, Uni-versity of Pennsylvania.Linguistic Data Consortium.
2004.
Anno-tation guidelines for entity detection andtracking (edt), version 4.2.6 200400401.http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Projects/ACE/docs/EnglishEDTV4-2-6.PDF.Ryan McDonald, Scott Winters, Mark Mandel, Yang Jin,Pete White, and Fernando Pereira.
2004.
An entitytagger for recognizing acquired genomic variations incancer literature.
Bioinformatics, 22(20):3249?3251.Scott Miller, Heidi Fox, Lance Ramshaw, and RalphWeischedel.
2000.
A novel use of statistical parsing toextract information from text.
In 6th Applied NaturalLanguage Processing Conference.Tomoko Ohta, Yuka Tateisi, Jin-Dong Kim, and Jun?iciTsuji.
2002.
The GENIA corpus: An annotated cor-pus in molecular biology domain.
In Proceedings ofthe 10th International Conference on Intelligent Sys-tems for Molecular Biology.28
