Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Building and Using Parallel Texts, pages 163?166,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?Association for Computational Linguistics, 2005Deploying Part-of-Speech Patterns to Enhance Statistical Phrase-BasedMachine Translation ResourcesChristina LiomaDepartment of Computing ScienceUniversity of GlasgowG12 8QQxristina@dcs.gla.ac.ukIadh OunisDepartment of Computing ScienceUniversity of GlasgowG12 8QQounis@dcs.gla.ac.ukAbstractPart-of-Speech patterns extracted fromparallel corpora have been used to en-hance a translation resource for statisticalphrase-based machine translation.1 IntroductionThe use of structural and syntactic information inlanguage processing implementations in recentyears has been producing contradictory results.Whereas language generation has benefited fromsyntax [Wu, 1997; Alshawi et al, 2000], the per-formance of statistical phrase-based machine trans-lation when relying solely on syntactic phrases hasbeen reported to be poor [Koehn et al, 2003].We carry out a set of experiments to explorewhether heuristic learning of part-of-speech pat-terns from a parallel corpus can be used to enhancephrase-based translation resources.2 SystemThe resources used for our experiments are as fol-lows.
The statistical machine translation GIZA++toolkit was used to generate a bilingual translationtable from the French-English parallel and sen-tence-aligned Europarl corpus.
Additionally, aphrase table generated from the Europarl French-English corpus, and a training test set of 2000French and English sentences that were madeavailable on the webpage of the ACL 2005 work-shop1 were also used.
Syntactic tagging was real-ized by the TreeTagger, which is a probabilisticpart-of-speech tagger and lemmatizer.
The decoderused to produce machine translations was Pharaoh,version 1.2.3.We used GIZA++ to generate a translation tablefrom the parallel corpus.
The table produced con-sisted of individual words and phrases, followed bytheir corresponding translation and a unique prob-ability value.
Specifically, every line of the saidtable consisted of a French entry (in the form ofone or more tokens), followed by an English entry(in the form of one or more tokens), followed byP(f|e), which is the probability P of translation tothe French entry f given the English entry e. Weadded the GIZA++-generated table to the phrase-based translation table downloaded from the work-shop webpage.
During this merging of translationtables, no word or phrase was omitted, replaced oraltered.
We chose to combine the two aforemen-tioned translation tables in order to achieve bettercoverage.
We called the resulting merged transla-tion table lexical phrase table.In order to utilize the syntactic informationstemming from our resources, we used the Tree-Tagger to tag both the parallel corpus and the lexi-cal phrase table.
The probability values includedin the lexical phrase table were not tagged.
TheTreeTagger uses a slightly modified version of thePenn Treebank tagset, different for each language.In order to achieve tag-uniformity, we performedthe following dual tag-smoothing operation.1The Europarl French-English corpus and phrase table, andthe training test set are available at:http://www.statmt.org/wpt05/mt-shared-task/163Firstly, we changed the French tags into their Eng-lish equivalents, i.e.
NOM (noun ?
French) becameNN (noun ?
English).
Secondly, we simplified thetags, so that they reflected nothing more than gen-eral part-of-speech information.
For example, tagsdenoting predicate-argument structures, wh-movement, passive voice, inflectional variation,and so on, were simplified.
For example, NNS(noun ?
plural) became NN (noun).Once our resources were uniformly tagged, weused them to extract part-of-speech correspon-dences between the two languages.
Specifically,we extracted a sentence-aligned parallel corpus ofFrench and English part-of-speech patterns fromthe tagged Europarl parallel corpus.
We called thiscorpus of parallel and corresponding part-of-speech patterns pos-corpus.
The format of the pos-corpus remained identical to the format of theoriginal parallel corpus, with the sole differencethat individual words were replaced by their corre-sponding part-of-speech tag.
Similarly, we ex-tracted a translation table of part-of-speech patternsfrom the tagged lexical phrase table.
We calledthis part-of-speech translation table pos-table.
Thepos-table had exactly the same format as the lexi-cal phrase table, with the unique difference thatindividual words were replaced by their corre-sponding part-of-speech tag.
The translation prob-ability values included in the lexical phrase tablewere copied onto the pos-table intact.Each of the part-of-speech patterns contained inthe pos-corpus was matched against the part-of-speech patterns contained in the pos-table.
Match-ing was realized similarly to conventional left-to-right string matching operations.
Matching wasconsidered to be successful not simply when apart-of-speech pattern was found to be containedin, or part of a longer pattern, but when patternswere found to be absolutely identical.
When a per-fect match was found, the translation probabilityvalue of the specific pattern in the pos-table wasincreased to the maximum value of 1.
If the scorewere already 1, it remained unchanged.
Whenthere were no matches, values remained un-changed.
We chose to match identical part-of-speech patterns, and not to accept partial patternmatches, because the latter would require a revi-sion of our probability recomputation method.
Thispoint is discussed in section 3 of this paper.Once all matching was complete, the newly en-hanced pos-table, which now contained translationprobability scores reflecting the syntactic featuresof the relevant languages, was used to update theoriginal lexical phrase table.
This update consistedin matching each and every part-of-speech patternwith its original lexical phrase, and replacing theinitial translation probability score with the valuescontained in the pos-table.
The identification of theoriginal lexical phrases that generated each andevery part-of-speech pattern was facilitated by theuse of pattern-identifiers (pos-ids) and phrase-identifiers (phrase-ids), which were introduced at avery early stage in the process for that purpose.The resulting translation phrase table containedexactly the same entries as the lexical phrase table,but had different probability scores assigned tosome of these entries, in line with the parallel part-of-speech co-occurrences and correspondencesfound in the Europarl corpus.
We called this tableenhanced phrase table.
Table 1 illustrates theprocess described above with the example of aphrase, the part-of-speech analysis of which hasbeen used to increase its original translation prob-ability value from 0.333333 to 1.Lexical phrase tableactions ext?rieures | external action | 0.333333Tagged lexical phrase tableactions_NN ext?rieures_JJ | external_JJ action_NN| 0.333333pos-corpusNN JJ | JJ NNEnhanced phrase tableactions ext?rieures | external action | 1Table 1: Extracting and matching a part-of-speech pattern to increase translation probability.We used the Pharaoh decoder firstly with ourlexical phrase table, and secondly with our en-hanced phrase table in order to generate statisticalmachine translations of source and target languagevariations of the French and English training testset.
We measured performance using the BLEUscore [Papineri et al, 2001], which estimates theaccuracy of translation output with respect to areference translation.
For both source-target lan-guage combinations, the use of the lexical phrasetable received a slightly lower score than the scoreachieved when using the enhanced phrase table.The difference between these two approaches isnot significant (p-value > 0.05).
The results of our164experiments are displayed in Table 2 and discussedin Section 3.Language Pair Lexical  EnhancedEnglish-French 25.50 25.63French-English 26.59 26.89Table 2: Our translation performance(measured with BLEU)3 DiscussionThe motivation behind this investigation has beento test whether syntactic or structural language as-pects can be reflected or represented in the re-sources used in statistical phrase-based machinetranslation.We adopted a line of investigation that concen-trates on the correspondence of part-of-speech pat-terns between French and English.
We measuredthe usability of syntactic structures for statisticalphrase-based machine translation by comparingtranslation performance when a standard phrasetable was used, and when a syntactically enhancedphrase table was used.
Both approaches scoredvery similarly.
This similarity in the performanceis justified by the following three factors.Firstly, the difference between the two transla-tion resources, namely the lexical phrase table andthe enhanced phrase table, does not relate to theirentries, and thus their coverage, but to a simplealteration of the translation probability values ofsome of their entries.
The coverage of these re-sources is exactly identical.Secondly, a closer examination of the transla-tion probability value alterations that took place inorder to reflect part-of-speech correspondencesreveals that the proportion of the entries of thephrase table that were matched syntactically tophrases from the parallel corpus, and thus under-went a modification in their translation probabilityscore, was very low (less than 1%).
The reasonbehind this is the fact that the part-of-speech pat-terns produced by the parallel corpus were longstrings in their vast majority, while the part-of-speech patterns found in the phrase table were sig-nificantly shorter strings.
The inclusion of phraseslonger than three words in translation resources hasbeen avoided, as it has been shown not to have astrong impact on translation performance [Koehnet al, 2003].Thirdly, the above described translation prob-ability value modifications were not parameterized,but consisted in a straightforward increase of thetranslation probability to its maximum value.
Itremains to be seen how these probability valuealterations can be expanded to a type of probabilityvalue ?reweighing?, in line with specific parame-ters, such as the size of the resources involved, thefrequency of part-of-speech patterns in the re-sources, the length of part-of-speech patterns, aswell as the syntactic classification of the membersof part-of-speech patterns.
If one is to compare theimpact that such parameters have had upon theperformance of automatic information summarisa-tion [Mani, 2001] and retrieval technology [Belew,2000], it may be worth experimenting with suchparameter tuning when refining machine transla-tion resources.A note should be made to the choice of taggerfor our experiments.
A possible risk when attempt-ing any syntactic examination of a large set of datamay stem from the overriding role that syntax of-ten assumes over semantics.
Statistical phrase-based machine translation has been faced with in-stances of this phenomenon, often disguised aslinguistic idiosyncrasies.
This phenomenon ac-counts for such instances as when nouns appear inpronominal positions, or as adverbial modifiers.On these occasions, and in order for the syntacticexamination to be precise, words would have to bedefined on the basis of their syntactic distributionrather than their semantic function.
The TreeTag-ger abides by this convention, which is one of themain reasons why we chose it over a plethora ofother freely available taggers, the remaining rea-sons being its high speed and low error rate.
In ad-dition, it should be clarified that there is nostatistical, linguistic, or other reason why we choseto adopt the English version of the Penn TreeBanktagset over the French, as they are both equallyconclusive and transparent.The overall driving force behind our investiga-tion has been to test whether part-of-speech struc-tures can be of assistance to the enhancement oftranslation resources for statistical phrase-basedmachine translation.
We view our use of part-of-speech patterns as a natural extension to the intro-duction of structural elements to statistical machinetranslation by Wang [1998] and Och et al [1999].165Our empirical results suggest that the use of part-of-speech pattern correspondences to enhance ex-isting translation resources does not damage ma-chine translation performance.
What remains to beinvestigated is how this approach can be opti-mized, and how it would respond to known statis-tical machine translation issues, such as mappingnested structures, or the handling of ?unorthodox?language pairs, i.e.
agglutinative-fusion languages.4 ConclusionSyntactic and structural language information con-tained in a bilingual parallel corpus has been ex-tracted and used to refine the translationprobability values of a translation phrase table,using simple heuristics.
The usability of the saidtranslation table in statistical phrase-based machinetranslation has been tested in the shared task of thesecond track of the ACL 2005 Workshop on Build-ing and Using Parallel Corpora.
Findings suggestthat using part-of-speech information to alter trans-lation probabilities has had no significant effectupon translation performance.
Further investiga-tion is required to reveal how our approach can beoptimized in order to produce significant perform-ance improvement.ReferencesAlshawi, H., Bangalore, S., and Douglas, S. (2000).Learning Dependency Translation Models as Collec-tions of Finite State Head Transducers.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 26(1).Belew, R. K. (2000).
Finding Out About: Search EngineTechnology from a Cognitive Perspective.
Cam-bridge University Press, USA.Koehn, P., Och, F. J., and Marcu, D. (2003).
StatisticalPhrase-Based Translation.
In Proceedings of the Hu-man Language Technology Conference 2003(HLT/NAACL 2003), pages 127-133.Mani, I.
(2001).
Automatic Summarization.
John Ben-jamins Publishing Company, Amsterdam.Och, F. J., Tilmann, C., and Ney, H. (1999).
ImprovedAlignment Models for Statistical Machine Transla-tion.
In Proceedings of the Joint SIGDAT Conferenceof Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-ing and Very Large Corpora 1999 (EMNLP 1999),pages 20-28.Papineri, K., Roukos, S., Ward, T., and Zhu, W.-J.(2001).
BLEU: A Method for Automatic Evaluationof Machine Translation.
Technical ReportRC22176(W0109-022), IBM Research Report.Wang, Y.
(1998).
Grammar Inference and StatisticalMachine Translation.
Ph.D. thesis, Carnegie MelonUniversity.Wu, D. (1997).
Stochastic Inversion transductionGrammars and Bilingual Parsing of Parallel Corpora.Computational Linguistics, 23(3).Yamada, K. and Knight, K. (2001).
A Syntax-basedStatistical Translation Model.
In Proceedings of the39th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL 39), pages 6-11.166
