Proceedings of the ACL-SIGLEX Workshop on Deep Lexical Acquisition, pages 77?86,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsMorphology vs. Syntax in Adjective Class AcquisitionGemma BoledaGLiComPompeu Fabra UniversityBarcelonagemma.boleda@upf.eduToni BadiaGLiComPompeu Fabra UniversityBarcelonatoni.badia@upf.eduSabine Schulte im WaldeComputational LinguisticsSaarland UniversitySaarbr?ckenschulte@CoLi.Uni-SB.DEAbstractThis paper discusses the role of morpho-logical and syntactic information in theautomatic acquisition of semantic classesfor Catalan adjectives, using decision treesas a tool for exploratory data analysis.We show that a simple mapping fromthe derivational type to the semantic classachieves 70.1% accuracy; syntactic func-tion reaches a slightly higher accuracy of73.5%.
Although the accuracy scores arequite similar with the two resulting classi-fications, the kinds of mistakes are quali-tatively very different.
Morphology can beused as a baseline classification, and syn-tax can be used as a clue when there aremismatches between morphology and se-mantics.1 IntroductionThis paper fits into a broader effort addressing theautomatic acquisition of semantic classes for Cata-lan adjectives.
So far, no established standard ofsuch semantic classes is available in theoretical orempirical linguistic research.
Our aim is to reach aclassification that is empirically adequate and the-oretically sound, and we use computational tech-niques as a means to explore large amounts of datawhich would be impossible to explore by hand tohelp us define and characterise the classification.In previous research (Boleda et al, 2004), we de-veloped a three-way classification according to gen-erally accepted adjective properties (see Section 2),and applied a cluster analysis to further examine theclasses.
While the cluster analysis confirmed ourclassification to a large extent, it was clear that oneof the classes needed further exploration.
Also, weused only syntactic features modelled as pairs ofPOS-bigrams; we explored neither other syntacticfeatures nor the role of morphological evidence forthe classification.In this paper we apply a supervised classificationtechnique, decision trees, for exploratory data analy-sis.
Our aim is to explore the linguistic features anddescription levels that are relevant for the semanticclassification, focusing on morphology and syntax.We check how far we get with morphological infor-mation, and whether syntax is helpful to overcomethe ceiling reached with morphology.Decision trees are appropriate for our task, to testand compare sets of features, based on our gold stan-dard.
They are also known for their easy interpre-tation, by reading feature combinations off the treepaths.
This property will help us get insight into rel-evant characteristics of our adjective classes, and inthe error analysis.The paper is structured as follows: Section 2presents the adjective classification and the goldstandard used for the experiments.
Sections 3 and 4explore the morphology-semantics interface and thesyntax-semantics interface with respect to the classi-fication proposed, and Section 5 focuses on the dif-ferences in the kind of information each level pro-vides for the classification.
Sections 6 and 7 are de-voted to discussion of related work and conclusions.772 Classification and gold standard2.1 Classification proposalTo date, no semantic classification of adjectives isgenerally accepted in theoretical linguistics.
Muchresearch in formal semantics has focused on entail-ment properties , while other kinds of lexical seman-tic properties are left uncovered.
Standard descrip-tive grammars propose broader classifications (seePicallo (2002) for Catalan), but these usually do notfollow a single classification parameter: they mixmorphological, syntactic and semantic criteria andend up with classifications that are not consistent.We are interested in properties of the lexical se-mantics of adjectives that have a bearing on theirsyntactic behaviour.
This property makes the seman-tic distinctions traceable at another linguistic level,which is desirable to ensure falsability of the classi-fication criteria.
On more practical terms, it also al-lows the exploitation of the syntax-semantics inter-face as is usual in Lexical Acquisition, to automatethe acquisition of the relevant classes.Our proposal is largely inspired by the Ontolog-ical Semantics framework (Raskin and Nirenburg,1995).
The assumption of an ontology as a model ofthe world allows us to distinguish linguistic aspects(e.g.
syntactic properties) from the actual content ofthe lexical entries, formalised as a link to an ele-ment the ontology.
We assume an ontology of basicdenotations composed of properties (or attributes),objects (or entities), and events.
Adjectives partici-pate in each of these possible denotations, and canbe basic, object-related or event-related, dependingon their lexical meaning.1 We next characterise eachclass.Basic adjectives are the prototypical adjectives,which denote attributes or properties which can-not be decomposed (bonic ?beautiful?, s?lid ?solid?
).Event adjectives have an event component in theirmeaning.
For instance, if something is tangible(?tangible?
), then it can be touched: tangible nec-essarily evokes a potential event of touching whichis embedded in the meaning of the adjective.
Otherexamples are alterat (?altered?)
and ofensiu (?offen-sive?).
Similarly, object adjectives have an embed-1Raskin and Nirenburg (1995) account separately for otherkinds of adjectives, such as membership adjectives (?fake?).
Wewill abstract away from these less numerous classes.ded object component in their meaning: deformaci?nasal (?nasal deformity?)
can be paraphrased as de-formity that affects the nose, so that nasal evokes theobject nose.
Other examples are peninsular (?penin-sular?)
and socioling?
?stic (?sociolinguistic?
).This proposal shares many aspects with discus-sions in descriptive grammar (2002) and proposalsin other lexical resources, such as WordNet (Miller,1998).
In particular, the distinction between pro-totypical, attribute-denoting adjectives and object-related adjectives is found both in descriptive gram-mar and in WordNet.
As for event-related adjectives,they are not usually found as a class in Romance de-scriptive grammar, and in WordNet they are distin-guished but only if they are participial; other kindsof deverbal adjectives are considered basic (in ourterminology).
More on the morphology-semanticsrelationship in Section 3.Our classification focuses on the semantic contentof adjectives, rather than on formal properties suchas entailment patterns (contrary to the tradition informal semantics).
The semantic distinctions pro-posed have an effect on the syntactic distribution ofadjectives, as will be shown throughout the paper,and can be exploited in low-level NLP tasks (POS-tagging), and also in more demanding tasks, such asparaphrase detection and generation (e.g.
exploitingthe relationship tangible ?
can be touched, or de-formaci?
nasal?
deformity affecting the nose).2.2 Gold standardTo perform the experiments, we built a set of anno-tated data based on this classification (gold standardfrom now on).
We extracted the lemmata and datafor the gold standard from a 16.5 million word Cata-lan corpus (Rafel, 1994), lemmatised, POS-taggedand shallow parsed with the CatCG tool (Alsina etal., 2002).
The shallow parser gives information onthe syntactic function of each word (subject, object,etc.
), not on phrase structure.186 lemmata were randomly chosen among all2564 adjectives occuring more than 25 times in thecorpus.
86 of the 186 lemmata were classified by 3human judges into each of the classes (basic, object,event).2 In case of polysemy affecting the class as-2The 3 human judges were PhD students with training inlinguistics, one of which had done research on adjectives.
Asit was defined, the level of training in linguistics needed for the78signment, the judges were instructed to return theclass for the most frequent sense as the primaryclass, and a secondary class for the other sense.Polysemy typically arises in cases where an adjec-tive has developed a noncompositional sense.
Oneof these cases would be the adjective puntual, a de-nominal adjective (derived from punt, ?point?).
Itsmost frequent sense is ?punctual?
as in ?I expectMary to be punctual for this meeting?.
This is a basicmeaning, noncompositional in the sense that it can-not be predicted from the meaning of the originatingnoun in combination with the suffix.The adjective has a compositional sense, namely,?related to a point?
(usually, a point in time), as inaix?
va ser un esdeveniment puntual, ?this was aonce-occuring event?.
This is the meaning we wouldexpect from the derivation punt (?point?)
+ al, and isan object meaning.
In this case, the judge shouldassign the adjective to two classes, primary basic,secondary object.
Compositional meanings are thusthose corresponding to active morphological pro-cesses, and can be predicted from the meaning ofthe noun and the derivation with the suffix (be it de-nominal, deverbal or participial).The judges had an acceptable 0.74 mean ?
agree-ment (Carletta, 1996) for the assignment of the pri-mary class, but a meaningless 0.21 for the secondaryclass (they did not even agree on which lemmatawere polysemous).
As a reaction to the low agree-ment about polysemy, we incorporated polysemy in-formation from a Catalan dictionary (DLC, 1993).This information was incorporated only in additionto the gathered gold standard: In many cases the dic-tionary only lists the compositional sense.
We addedit as a second reading if our judges considered thenoncompositional one as most frequent.One of the authors of the paper classified the re-maining 100 lemmata according to the same criteria.For our experiment, we use the complete gold stan-dard containing 186 lemmata (87 basic, 46 event,and 53 object adjectives).3 Morphological evidenceThere is an obvious relationship between the deriva-tional type of an adjective (whether it is denomi-nal, deverbal, or not derived) and the semantic clas-task was quite high.sification we have put forth: Usually, a denominaladjective has an object embedded in its meaning(corresponding to the object denoted by the nounfrom which it is derived).
Similarly, a deverbal orparticipial adjective tends to denote a relationshipwith an event (the event denoted by the originatingverb), and a nonderived adjective tends to have a ba-sic meaning.
Therefore, the simplest classificationstrategy is to associate each derivational type with asemantic class: nonderived ?
basic, participial ?event, deverbal?
event, and denominal?
object.Table 1 reflects the accuracy results of this theo-retically defined mapping between morphology andsemantics, compared to our gold standard (cases cor-responding to the predicted mapping in boldface).3For instance, the first line of this table shows that 39of the 42 nonderived adjectives, predicted to be ba-sic by the morphology-semantics mapping, are ac-tually deemed basic by the human judges, while theremaining 3 are classified as object adjectives.basic event object Totalnonderived (basic) 39 0 3 42deverbal (event) 12 11 2 25participial (event) 12 35 0 47denominal (object) 24 0 48 72Total 87 46 53 186precision .93 .64 .67 .74recall .45 1 .91 .78f-score (?
= 0.5) .69 .82 .79 .76Table 1: Morphology-semantics mapping: resultsNote that the table correctly reflects the generaltendencies just outlined: This simple classificationachieves 0.76 f-score.
However, there are obviousmismatches.
Most of these mismatches are concen-trated in the first column, namely many of the dever-bal, participial and denominal adjectives (predictedto denote event or object meanings) actually havea basic meaning as their most frequent sense.
Thisfact is reflected in the low recall score for basic ad-jectives (0.45), and in precision being much lowerthan recall for the other two classes (0.64 vs. 1 forevent, 0.67 vs. 0.91 for object adjectives).3The morphological information was obtained from a man-ually constructed electronic database of adjectives, kindly pro-vided by Roser Sanrom?
(2003).79The mismatches usually correspond to polysemydue to noncompositional senses of the adjectives,such as the denominal adjective puntual discussedabove.
Another case is the participial abatut, whichcompositionally means ?shot-down?, but is most fre-quently used as a synonym to ?depressed, down-cast?, and therefore is classified as basic.
Similarly,a deverbal adjective such as radiant most frequentlymeans ?happy?, but also has a compositional sense,?irradiating?.Sometimes the compositional meaning is com-pletely lost, as with most deverbal adjectives clas-sified as basic.
In some cases the underlyingverb no longer exists in Catalan (horrible-*horrir,compatible-*compatir), and they are not perceivedas derived.4 In other cases, although the verb exists,it is a stative predicate (e.g.
inestable, ?unstable?,from estar ?stand/be?
; pudent ?stinking?, from pudir,?stink?
), and thus are much more similar to basic ad-jectives than deverbal adjectives deriving from dy-namic predicates, such as ofensiu (?offensive?).
As-pectuality of the deriving verb is a factor that has tobe examined more carefully in the future.To summarise, the results for the morphology-semantics mapping indicate that there is a clear rela-tionship between these two levels: Morphology doesmost of the job right, because each morphologicalrule has an associated semantic operation.
However,this level of information has a clear performanceceiling.
In case of noncompositional meanings themorphological class will systematically be mislead-ing, which cannot be overcome unless other kinds ofinformation are let into play.4 Syntactic evidenceIf we adhere to the hypothesis that semantics hasa reflection in syntactic distribution (basis for mostwork in Lexical Acquisition), we can expect thatsyntax gives us a better clue to semantics than mor-phology, particularly in cases of noncompositionalmeanings.
We expect that adjectives with a noncom-4The question may arise of whether these adjectives are re-ally deverbal.
In the current version of the adjective database,all adjectives bearing a suffix that is active in the Catalan deriva-tional system are classified as derived.
The problem is that Cata-lan shares suffixes with Latin, so that fixed forms from Latinthat have been incorporated into Catalan cannot be superficiallydistinguished from active derived forms.positional meaning behave in the syntax as basic ad-jectives, not as event or object adjectives.Before getting into the experiments using syntac-tic information, we briefly present the syntax of ad-jectives in Catalan and the predictions with respectto the syntactic behaviour of each class.4.1 Adjective syntax in CatalanThe default function of the adjective in Catalan isthat of modifying a noun; the default position is thepostnominal one (about 66% of adjective tokens inthe corpus modify nouns postnominally).
Examplesare taula gran (?big table?
), arquitecte t?cnic (?tech-nical architect?
), and element constitutiu (?constitu-tive element?
).However, some adjectives can appear prenomi-nally, mainly when used non-restrictively (so-called?epithets?
; 26% of the tokens occur in prenominalposition).
In English, this epithetic use is not typi-cally distinguished by position, but some adjectivescan epithetically modify proper nouns (?big John?vs.
?
*technical John?).
?Big?
in ?big John?
doesnot restrict the reference of ?John?, but highlights aproperty.
In Catalan and other Romance languages,prenominal position is systematically associated tothis use, with proper or common nouns.The other main function of the adjective is thatof predicate in a copular sentence (6% of the to-kens), such as aquesta taula ?s gran (?this table isbig?).
Other predicative contexts, such as adjunctpredicates (as in la vaig veure borratxa, ?I saw herdrunk?
), are much less frequent: approx.
1% of theadjectives in the corpus.From empirical exploration and literature review,we gathered the following tentative predictions as tothe syntactic behaviour of each class in Catalan:Basic adjectives occur in predicative environments,have scope over other adjectives modifying thesame head (most notably, object adjectives),and can have epithetic uses and therefore occurprenominally.Event adjectives occur in predicative environmentsand after object adjectives.Object adjectives occur in a rigid position, directlyafter their head noun; they do not allow pred-80icative constructions nor epithetic uses (there-fore not prenominal position).4.2 SetupWe modelled the syntactic behaviour of adjectivesusing three different representation strategies.
Thevalues in the three cases were frequency counts, thatis, the percentage of occurrence of each adjective inthat syntactic environment.
The frequency of the ad-jectives from the gold standard in the corpus rangesfrom 27 to 7154 (median: 129.5).
All in all, 56,692out of the approx 600,000 sentences in the corpuswere used as data for this experiment.
We havenot analysed the influence of frequency on the re-sults, but each adjective is represented by a reason-able amount of data, so that the representation of thesyntactic evidence in terms of frequency is adequate.The simplest modelling strategy is unigram repre-sentation, taking the POS of the word to the left ofthe adjective and the POS of the word to the rightas separate features.
Adjectives have a limited syn-tactic distribution (much more restricted than e.g.verbs), so that even this simple representation shouldprovide relevant evidence.
The second one is bigramrepresentation, with features consisting of the POSof the word to the left of the adjective and the POSof the word to the right as a single feature.
This rep-resentation results in a much larger number of fea-tures (see Table 2), thus potentially leading to datasparsenes, but it should be more informative, be-cause left and right context are taken into accountat the same time.The third one is the syntactic function, as givenby CatCG.
For adjectives, these functions are nounmodifier (distinguishing between prenominal andpostnominal position), predicate in a copular sen-tence, and predicative adjunct (more informationin Section 4.4).
CatCG does not yield completelydisambiguated output, and the ambiguous functionswere also taken into account, so as not to miss anypotentially relevant source of evidence.To perform the experiment, we used C5.0, a com-mercial decision tree and rule induction engine de-veloped by Ross Quinlan (Quinlan, 1993).
We triedseveral options, including the default, winnowing,and adaptive boosting.
Although the results varieda bit within each representation strategy (boostingtended to perform better, winnowing did not havea homogeneous behaviour), the general picture re-mained the same as to the relative performance ofeach level of representation.
Therefore, and for clar-ity of exposure and exploration reasons, we will onlypresent and discuss results using the default options.For comparison, we ran the tool on the 3 syntacticrepresentation levels and on morphological informa-tion, using derivational type, a finer-grained deriva-tional type, and the suffix.54.3 ResultsThe results of the experiment, obtained averagingten 10-fold cross-validation runs, are depicted in Ta-ble 2.
In this table, #f is the number of features foreach representation strategy, size the size of the trees(number of leaves), accuracy the accuracy rate of theclassifiers (in percentage), and SE the standard errorof each parameter.
We currently assume a majoritybaseline, that of assigning all adjectives to the mostnumerous class (basic).
Given that there are 87 ba-sic adjectives and 186 items in the gold standard (seeTable 1), this baseline results in 46.8% accuracy.size accuracy#f mean SE mean SEbaseline - - - 46.8 -morphology 3 4.3 0.1 70.1 0.3unigram 24 19.1 0.2 68.8 0.6bigram 135 18.8 0.4 67.4 0.8synt.
funct.
14 3.5 0.1 73.8 0.3Table 2: Decision Tree experimentNote that all four classifiers are well above themajority baseline (46.8%).
The best results are ob-tained with the lowests number of features (3 formorphology, 14 for syntactic function, vs. 24 and135 for unigram and bigram), and correspondingly,with the smallest trees (average 4.3 and 3.5 leavesfor morphology and function, 19.1 and 18.8 for n-grams).
We interpret this result as indicating thatthe levels of description of morphology and syn-tactic function are more adequate than the n-gramrepresentation, although this is only a tentative con-clusion, because the differences in accuracy are notlarge.
Function abstracts away from particular POS5The finer-grained derivational type states whether the ad-jective is derived from a noun or verb that still exists in Catalanor not.81syntactic function basic event objectpostnominal modifier .69 +/-.16 .68 +/-.19 .94 +/-.06prenominal modifier .07 +/-.09 .02 +/-.04 .01 +/-.03predicative adjunct .09 +/-.08 .19 +/-.16 .02 +/-.03predicate in a copular sentence .10 +/-.10 .08 +/-.07 .01 +/-.02Table 3: Average values for the syntactic functions in each adjective class.environments, and summarises the most relevant in-formation without the data sparseness problems in-herent in n-gram representation.Also noteworthy is that the accuracy rates for syn-tax are lower than we would have expected, ac-cording to the hypothesis that it better reflects syn-chronic meaning.
For the first two syntactic repre-sentations, unigrams and bigrams, results are worsethan using the simple morphological mapping ex-plained above (respectively 68.8% and 67.4% ac-curacy, compared to 70.1% accuracy achieved withmorphology).6 Only syntactic function improvesupon the morphological results, and only slightly(73.8% average accuracy).
However, as will be ex-plored in the rest of the Section, the mistakes ofthe morphological classifier are qualitatively differ-ent from those of the syntactic classifiers, which canbe used to gain insight into the nature of the problemhandled, and to build better classifiers.4.4 Error analysisFor the analysis of the results, we will focus on thesyntactic function features, because it is the best sys-tem and allows clearer exploration of the hypothesesstated so far than the n-gram representation.Table 3 contains the data for the 4 main syntacticfunctions for adjectives.
For each class (all adjec-tives classified as basic, event or object in the goldstandard), it contains the average percentage of oc-curence with each syntactic function, along with thestandard deviation.
A set of 10 remaining syntac-tic features represented cases not disambiguated byCatCG, which had really low mean values and wererarely used in the DTs.The values of the 4 syntactic functions confirm toa large extent the predictions made with respect tothe syntactic behaviour of each adjective class, but6When using morphological features, DTs used almost onlythe main derivational type, according to the hypothesis stated inSection 3.also evidence an additional fact: basic and event ad-jectives, in the current definition of the classes, haveonly slight differences in their syntax.Basic and event adjectives have similar mean val-ues for the default adjective position in Catalan(postnominal modifier; 0.69 and 0.68 mean values),and also for the predicative function in a copularsentence (0.10 and 0.084 mean values).
The two-sample t-test confirms that the differences in meanare not significant (p=0.73 and p=0.88 at the 95%confidence interval).7Basic adjectives occur more frequently asprenominal modifiers (0.07 compared to 0.02), butnote the large standard deviation (0.09 and 0.04)),which means that there is a large within-class vari-ability.
In addition, event adjectives have a largermean value for the predicative adjunct function (0.19vs.
0.09), but again, the standard deviation of bothclasses is very large (0.16 and 0.08).
Nevertheless,a t-test returns significant p values (< 0.001, 95%conf.
int.)
for the differences in mean of these twofeatures, so that they can be used as a clue to thecharacterisation of the event class.8 The bias ofevent adjectives towards predicative uses can be at-tributed to participials ?
the most frequent kind ofadjectives in the event class (35 vs. 11).Object adjectives do present a distinct syntacticbehaviour: They act (as expected) as rigid postnom-inal modifiers (mean value 0.94), and cannot be usedas prenominal modifiers (mean value 0.01) or aspredicates (mean values 0.018 and 0.008 for pred-icative functions).
Also note that the standard devi-ation for each feature is lower in the case of objectadjectives than in the case of basic and event adjec-tives, which indicates a higher homogeneity of theobject class.
T-tests for the difference in means with7Alternatives ?not equal?
and ?basic smaller than event?
re-spectively.8Alternatives: ?basic greater than event?
for prenominalmodification, ?event greater than basic?
for predicative adjunct.82respect to the basic and event class return signifi-cant p values (< 0.001) except for the difference inprenominal modification values between event andobject adjectives (p=0.26).9Decision trees built with this feature set use the in-formation consistent with the observations just out-lined.
In general, they characterise object adjectivesas postnominal modifiers (usual threshold: 0.9), ba-sic adjectives as prenominal modifiers (usual thresh-old: 0.01), and event adjectives as not being prenom-inal modifiers.
In some trees, information aboutpredicativity is also included (event adjectives act aspredicative adjuncts; usual threshold: 0.04).From the discussion of the feature values, it is tobe expected that most of the mistakes when using thesyntactic function feature set are due to basic-eventconfusion, and this is indeed the case.
For the er-ror analysis, we divided the gold standard into threeequal sets, and successively trained on two sets andclassified the third.
The classification of the goldstandard that resulted is reflected in Table 4 (cor-rectly classified items in boldface).true class?
basic event object Totalbasic 56 7 5 68event 18 35 4 57object 13 4 44 61Total 87 46 53 186precision .82 .61 .72 .72recall .64 .76 .83 .69f-score .73 .69 .78 .73Table 4: Syntax-semantics mapping: resultsTable 4 shows that the object class is best charac-terised (0.78 f-score), followed by the basic (0.73)and event (0.69) classes.
Particularly low are preci-sion for event (0.61) and recall for basic (0.64) ad-jectives.
This distribution indicates that many adjec-tives are classified as event while belonging to otherclasses (18 to basic, 4 to object), and many basic ad-jectives are classified into other classes (18 as event,13 as object).The basic-event confusion mainly takes placewith basic adjectives not used as epithets (in9Alternatives: all means of basic and event greater thanthose of object, except for postnominal modification, testingagainst a greater mean for object.prenominal position; curull ?full?, dispers ?scat-tered?)
and event adjectives used as epithets (inter-minable ?endless?, ofensiu ?offensive?).
Althoughmore analysis is needed, in many of these cases(such as interminable) the underlying verb is sta-tive, which makes the adjectives very similar to basicadjectives, as mentioned in Section 3.
The judgesreported difficulties particularly in distinguishingevent from basic adjectives, which matches the re-sults of the experiments.
The classification is fuzzyin this point, and we intend to develop clearer crite-ria to distinguish adjectives with an ?active?
event intheir lexical meaning from basic adjectives.As for the basic-object confusion, it is due to twofactors.
The first one is basic being the default class:In the gold standard, if an adjective does not fit intothe other 2 classes, it is considered basic, even ifit does not denote a prototypical kind of attributeor property.
Examples are radioactiu (?radioactive?
)and rec?proc ?reciprocal?.
These tend to be used lessin predicative and epithetic functions.The second one is polysemy.
4 adjectives clas-sified in the gold standard as polysemous betweena basic (primary) and an object (secondary) read-ing are classified by C5.0 as object because theyalmost only (> 90% of the time) occur postnomi-nally: artesanal, mec?nic, moral, ornamental (?arte-sanal, mechanical, moral, ornamental?).
All of thesecases have a compositional meaning paraphrasableby ?related-to X?, where X is the derived noun, anda noncompositional meaning such as ?automatic?
formec?nic.
The syntactic behaviour of the adjective ismixed according to the two classes, so that the val-ues for environments typical of basic adjectives aretoo low to meet the thresholds.10To sum up, event adjectives do not seem to haveconsistent syntactic characteristics that tell themapart from basic adjectives, while object adjectiveshave a consistent behaviour distinct from the othertwo classes.
This result backs up previous exper-imentation with clustering (Boleda et al, 2004),where half of the event adjectives were systemati-cally clustered together with basic adjectives.11 Pol-10Note, however, that in 6 other cases with the same poly-semy, syntax does tell them apart from typical object adjectives,and are classified as basic (such as the puntual case discussedabove; see discussion in next Section).11The ones that were distinguished from basic adjectives83ysemy plays a tricky role, because depending on theuses of the adjective it leads to a continuum in thefeature values which sometimes does not allow aclear identification of the most frequent sense.5 Differences between morphology andsyntaxA crucial point to understand the roles of morphol-ogy and syntax for our semantic classification isthe differences in the kinds of mistakes that eachof the information level carries with it.
From thediscussion up to this point, we would expect thatthe default morphological classification causes lessmistakes with event vs. basic, because the deverbalmorphological rules carry the associated ?related-to-event?
meaning.
On the contrary, syntax shouldhandle better the cases where the relationship be-tween morphology and semantics is lost, what wehave termed noncompositional meanings.If we compare the mistakes made by each map-ping, both morphology and syntax assign the ex-pected class to 103 lemmata (55.4% of the goldstandard), and both coincide in assigning a wrongclass for 21 (11.3%).
The cases where one map-ping achieves the right classification and the otherone makes a mistake are reflected in Tables 5 and 6.true class?
basic event object Totalbasic 7 5 12event 6 4 10object 4 4 8Total 10 11 9Table 5: Morphology right, syntax wrongtrue class?
basic event object Totalbasic 2 3 3event 10 12object 17 17Total 27 2 3Table 6: Syntax right, morphology wrongCases where morphology achieves the right classand syntax does not (Table 6) do not present a veryclear pattern, although the basic-event confusion inwere so due to their bearing complements, a parameter orthog-onal to the targeted classification.syntax is indeed reflected as the most numerous inTable 5 (6+7 cases).
In absence of a syntactic char-acterisation of the class, applying the default map-ping will yield better results.As for the cases where syntax classifies correctlyand morphology does not (Table 6), they do presenta clear pattern: They correspond, as expected, to de-verbal (8), participial (2) and denominal (17) adjec-tives with a meaning that does not correspond to themorphological rule.
Among denominals, examplesare elemental and horror?s (?elementary?
and ?hor-rifying?
); among deverbals, raonable and present(?reasonable?
and ?present?
); among participials, in-nat and inesperat (?innate?
and ?unexpected?
).Note that syntax is most helpful in the identifi-cation of basic denominal adjectives (17 cases), pro-viding support for the hypothesis that adjectives witha noncompositional meaning behave in the syntax asbasic adjectives, which can be exploited in a lexi-cal acquisition setting.
In contrast, event and basicclasses not having a clearly distinct syntactic distri-bution, the syntactic features do not help in tellingthese two classes apart.
This problem accounts forthe little overall accuracy improvement from mor-phology (70.1%) to syntax (73.8%): It improves theobject vs. basic distinction, but it does not consis-tently improve the event vs. basic distinction.5.1 Combining morphological and syntacticfeaturesThe next logical step in building a better classifierfor adjectives is to use both morphological and syn-tactic function information.
When doing that, aslightly better result is obtained, although no dra-matic jump in improvement: 74.7% mean accuracyaveraged across ten 10-fold cross-validation runs,with trees of average 8 leaves (mean accuracy being70.1% with morphology and 73.8% with syntacticfunction; see Table 2).In most of the partitions of the data when usingthis feature set, the first node uses syntactic evidence(high values for postnominal position for object ad-jectives vs. the rest), and the second level nodes usethe derivational type.
The remaining morphologicalfeatures (suffix, fine-grained derivational type; seefootnote 4.2) are seldom used.In all the decision trees, nonderived adjectives aredirectly assigned to the basic class, and in 80% par-84ticipial adjectives are classified as event.
The lastrule causes a large number of errors, because 12 outof 47 participles were classified as basic in the goldstandard.
For the other two derivational types, syn-tactic evidence is used again in almost all decisiontrees (99% for deverbal, 80% for denominal adjec-tives).
Deverbal or denominal adjectives that occurprenominally are deemed basic, according to expec-tation.
Contrary to expectation, however, deverbaladjectives that occur predicatively are classified asbasic.
This result confirms the suspicion that fre-quent predicative use is associated with participial,but not with other kinds of deverbal adjectives, asstated in Section 4.4.6 Related workIn recent years much research (Merlo and Steven-son, 2001; Schulte im Walde and Brew, 2002; Ko-rhonen et al, 2003) has aimed at exploiting thesyntax-semantics interface for classification tasks,mostly based on verbs.
In particular, Merlo andStevenson (2001) present a classification experimentwhich bears similarities to ours.
They use deci-sion trees to classify intransitive English verbs intothree semantic classes: unergatives, unaccusatives,and object-drop.
As in our experiments, they definethree classes, and use only 60 verbs for the experi-ments.
Merlo and Stevenson identify linguistic fea-tures referring to verb argument structure (cruciallyinvolving thematic relations), and classify the verbsinto the three classes with an accuracy of 69.8%.They compare their results with a random baselineof 33%.There has been much less research in Lexical Ac-quisition for adjectives.
Early efforts include Hatzi-vassiloglou and McKeown (1993), a cluster analysisdirected to the automatic identification of adjectivesbelonging to the same scale (such as cold-tempered-hot).
More recently, Bohnet et al (2002) usedbootstrapping to assign German adjectives to ?func-tional?
classes (of a more traditional sort, based ona German descriptive grammar).
They relied on or-dering restrictions and coordination data which canbe adapted to Catalan.As for Romance languages, the only related workwe are aware of is Carvalho and Ranchod (2003),who developed a finite-state approach to disam-biguating homograph adjectives and nouns in Por-tuguese.
They manually classified the adjectivaluses of the homographs into six syntactic classeswith characteristics used in our classification (pred-icative uses, position with respect to the head noun,etc.).
They used that information to build finite statetransducers aimed at determinining the POS of thehomographs in each context, with a high accuracy(99.3%) and coverage (94%).
The research under-gone in this paper leads to the automatic acquisitionof the classes, defined however at a semantic ratherthan syntactic level.7 Conclusion and future workIn this paper, we have presented and discussed therole of two sources of evidence for the automaticclassification of adjectives into ontological seman-tic classes: morphology and syntax.
Both levelsprovide relevant information, as indicated by theirrespective accuracy results (70.1% for morphology,73.8% for syntax), both well above a majority base-line (46.8%).
Morphology fails in cases of noncom-positional meaning, when the relationship to the de-riving word has been lost, cases that syntax tends tocorrectly classify.
In contrast, syntax systematicallyconfuses event and basic adjectives due to the lackof a sufficiently distinct syntactic profile of the eventclass.
Therefore, the default morphology-semanticsmapping handles these cases better.Not suprisingly, the best classifier is obtainedcombining both kinds of information (74.7%), al-though it is not even 1% better than the syntacticclassifier.
More research is needed to achieve betterways of combining both levels of description.We can summarise our results as indicating thatmorphology can give a reliable initial hypothesiswith respect to the semantic class of an adjective,which syntax can refine in cases of noncomposi-tional meaning, particularly for object adjectives.Therefore, morphology can be used as a baseline infuture classification experiments.The experiments presented in this paper also shedlight on the characteristics of each class.
In particu-lar, we have shown that event adjectives do not havea homogeneous and distinct syntactic profile.
Onefactor to take into account is that the morphologi-cal variability within the class (suffixes -ble, iu, nt,85participles) is associated with a high semantic vari-ability.
This semantic variability is not found in theobject class, where the several suffixes (al, ic, ?, etc.
)all have a similar semantic effect.
Another factorwhich seems to play a role, and which has been iden-tified in the error analysis, is the aspectuality of thederiving verb, particularly whether it is stative or dy-namic.
In the near future, we intend to use the bestclassifier to automatically classify more adjectivesof our database, so as to allow further exploration ofthe data and a clearer definition of the class.A major issue we leave for future research is pol-ysemy detection.
Up to now, we have only aimed atsingle-class classification, and not attempted to cap-ture multiple uses of an adjective.
E.g.
the approachin Bohnet et al (2002) could be adapted to Cata-lan: We can use data on coordination and orderingfor polysemy detection, once the class of the mostfrequent sense is established with the methodologyexplained in this paper.Finally, the results presented in this paper seemto point in a fruitful direction for the study of ad-jective semantics: Adjectives that are flexibly used,those that fully exploit the syntactic possibilities ofthe language (in Catalan, being used predicativelyand as epithets), tend to correspond to adjectiveswith a basic meaning, that is, tend to be viewed asa compact attribute, as a prototypical adjective.
Incontrast, derived adjectives which retain much ofthe semantic link to the noun or verb from whichthey derive do not behave like prototypical adjec-tives, are tied to certain positions, and do not exhibitthe full range of syntactic possibilities of adjectivesas a class.
We intend to explore the consequences ofthis hypothesis in more detail in the future.AcknowledgementsMany thanks to the people who have manually annotated thedata: ?ngel Gil, Mart?
Quixal, Roser Sanrom?.
Also thanks toLouise McNally, Maite Melero, Mart?
Quixal, and three anony-mous reviewers for revision and criticism of previous versionsof the paper.
We thank Eric Joanis, Alexander Koller, andOana Postolache for suggestions that lead to this paper.
Spe-cial thanks are due to Roser Sanrom?
for kindly providing uswith her manual morphological classification (Sanrom?, 2003),and to the Institut d?Estudis Catalans for lending us the researchcorpus.
This work is supported by the Fundaci?n Caja Madrid.References?.
Alsina, T. Badia, G. Boleda, S. Bott, ?.
Gil, M. Quixal, andO.
Valent?n.
2002.
CATCG: a general purpose parsing toolapplied.
In Proceedings of the 3rd LREC, pages 1130-1135.B.
Bohnet, S. Klatt, and L. Wanner.
2002.
An approach to auto-matic annotation of functional information to adjectives withan application to German.
In Proceedings of the Workshopon Linguistic Knowledge Acquisition and Representation atthe 3rd LREC Conference.G.
Boleda, T. Badia, and E. Batlle.
2004.
Acquisition of se-mantic classes for adjectives from distributional evidence.
InProceedings of the 20th COLING, pages 1119?1125.J.
Carletta.
1996.
Assessing agreement on classification tasks:The kappa statistic.
Computational Linguistics, 22(2):249?254.P.
Carvalho and E. Ranchhod.
2003.
Analysis and disambigua-tion of nouns and adjectives in Portuguese by FST.
In Pro-ceedings of the Workshop on Finite-State Methods for Natu-ral Language Processing at EACL2003, pages 105?112.DLC.
1993.
Diccionari de la Llengua Catalana.
Enciclop?diaCatalana, Barcelona, third edition.V.
Hatzivassiloglou and K. R. McKeown.
1993.
Towards theautomatic identification of adjectival scales: Clustering ad-jectives according to meaning.
In Proceedings of the 31stACL, pages 172?182.A.
Korhonen, Y. Krymolowski, and Z. Marx.
2003.
Cluster-ing polysemic subcategorization frame distributions seman-tically.
In Proceedings of the 41st ACL, pages 64?71.P.
Merlo and S. Stevenson.
2001.
Automatic verb classifica-tion based on statistical distributions of argument structure.Computational Linguistics, 27(3):373?408.K.
J. Miller.
1998.
Modifiers in WordNet.
In ChristianeFellbaum, editor, WordNet: an Electronic Lexical Database,pages 47?67.
MIT, London.C.
Picallo.
2002.
L?adjectiu i el sintagma adjectival.
InJoan Sol?, editor, Gram?tica del catal?
contemporani, pages1643?1688.
Emp?ries, Barcelona.R.
Quinlan.
1993.
C4.5: Programs for Machine Learning.Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco.J.
Rafel.
1994.
Un corpus general de refer?ncia de la llenguacatalana.
Caplletra, 17:219?250.V.
Raskin and S. Nirenburg.
1998.
An applied ontologicalsemantic microtheory of adjective meaning for natural lan-guage processing.
Machine Translation, 13:135?227.S.
Schulte im Walde and C. Brew.
2002.
Inducing German se-mantic verb classes from purely syntactic subcategorisationinformation.
In Proceedings of the 40th ACL, pages 223?230.Roser Sanrom?.
2003.
Aspectes morfol?gics i sint?ctics delsadjectius en catal?.
Master?s thesis, Universitat PompeuFabra.86
