AbstractThis paper describes ongoing work on the choiceof modal expressions in the generation of recom-mendations about courses of study within the B.A.-program of the Ruhr-Universit?t Bochum.
We fo-cus our work on the German modal verbs m?ssen(must), k?nnen (can), the subjunctive form sollte(should), and d?rfen (may).
The idea is to combineinsights from formal semantics into the meaning ofmodal verbs with requirements for their choice inNLG-systems in order to achieve a linguisticallysatisfying model of their choice.
The overall modelis implemented in the CAN-system that planscourses of study and generates recommendationsabout them.1 IntroductionFrom a typological perspective, modality concerns thespeaker?s estimation of the possible and necessary occur-rence, respectively, of some state of affairs [van der Auweraand Plungian, 1998].
In many languages, modality is lin-guistically realized by a whole bundle of different means,with modal verbs being the most prominent ones.In this paper, we will describe the realization of uses of thefour German modal verbs m?ssen (must, have to, need to),k?nnen (can, to be able to), d?rfen (may, could, to be al-lowed to do) and the subjunctive form of sollen, i.e.
sollte(should).
As the English translations indicate, there is nosimple correspondence between the meaning of these Ger-man modal verbs and their counterparts in other languages.In particular, the pragmatic conditions for their use differwidely so that a straightforward adoption of the conditionswe are giving in this paper to other languages will probablynot be possible.In general, the problem of the choice of modal verbs is thefact that the use of modals is, among other things, deter-mined by information that is usually only implicitly given ina discourse.
This information must be made available duringmacroplanning for the entire text in a way that enables thechoice of the contextually appropriate modal verbs.In what follows, we will first outline the semantics andpragmatics of modal verbs in general, and the four Germanmodals plus sollen in particular.
Based on this, we will de-lineate our choice model for modals and its application tothe aforementioned four modal verbs.
Finally, we will showhow this model is integrated into the CAN-System that weare currently developing.2 The meanings of modal verbsThe meaning of modals is deeply rooted in information thatis only implicitly given in a discourse, but plays a crucialrole in the full understanding of the underlying speaker?sintention.
This context-dependence results in different read-ings.
A sentence like Peter must attend the lecture on se-mantics can be interpreted in numerous ways: It could ex-press that according to the knowledge of the speaker it isnecessary that Peter attends this lecture, or that Peter?scourse of study requires his attendance in the lecture on se-mantics.Since Kratzer?s (1977) seminal work on a uniform and for-mal treatment of the semantics of modal verbs, the context-dependence of the meaning of modals is traced back to so-called conversational backgrounds (also called modal do-mains or modal bases) that provide that information againstwhich the modalized sentence has to be interpreted.
Accord-ing to her widely accepted analysis in formal semantics, themeaning of modal verbs depends on the class of permittedconversational backgrounds and the so-called modal force,i.e.
whether the modal verbs express possibility or necessity.Possibility and necessity are defined as consistency and en-tailment with respect to the respective conversational back-ground: a proposition is possible if it is consistent with therelevant background, and it is necessary if it is entailed bythe conversational background.Accordingly, modal verbs differ in their semantics with re-spect to these two parameters: their inherent modal force,and the classes of modal domains associated with them.11 In more recent works, Kratzer`s (1977) original work hasbeen extended to a doubly relative analysis of modal verbs: Theirmeaning does not only depend on one modal domain, but addition-ally on a second one, the ?ordering source?.
An ordering source isa set of propositions that describes the plausibility of the statesgiven in the primary modal domain.
Since this refinement ofKratzer?s work does not concern our treatment of the choice ofWhen must should be chosenRalf KlabundeRuhr-Universit?t BochumDepartment of LinguisticsD- 44780 Bochumklabunde@linguistics.rub.deThe classifications of relevant conversational backgroundsthat have been postulated for an adequate analysis of themeaning of modal expressions differ widely in the literature.They range from two types ?
a basic distinction betweenepistemic and ?root?
modals - to more than twenty in vonStechow?s (2004) classification.Kratzer uses a modal logic to describe the meaning of modalverbs.
However, she leaves open what conversational back-grounds really are (besides their characterization as sets ofpropositions), although this concept is the linchpin of a sat-isfying analysis of the meaning of modals.Also discourse-oriented approaches to the meaning of mo-dals as, e.g., Roberts (1989), Frank (1996), or Stone (1999)do not say much about the structure and content of conver-sational backgrounds.
These approaches analyze specificuses of modals as anaphoric expressions: in some discoursesegments, modals pick up modal domains introduced byprevious modal expressions, and must be interpreted againstthis already introduced hypothetical scenario.
Stone (1999),for example, gives the following sentence pair:(1) A wolf might walk into the house.
It would eat you.In order to interpret the second modalized sentence cor-rectly, the anaphoric connection between the content of thatsentence and the possible scenario of the first one must bemade explicit.2.1 The meaning of m?ssen, d?rfen, sollen, sollte,and k?nnenWe will outline what semanticians have to say about themeaning of these modal verbs, and characterize those prag-matic conditions for their use that are of importance for thispaper.M?ssen and sollen both express necessity as modal force.The semantic difference between these two verbs concernsthe admissible conversational backgrounds: While m?ssencan be used with any conversational background, the use ofsollen is restricted to specific ones, viz.
those that express aspecified ideal like laws or social norms.
For example, whilethe sentence(2) Peter muss den Kurs besuchen(Peter must attend the lecture)can, in principle, be interpreted with respect to any kind ofconversational background, some of these backgrounds arenot possible for the sentence Peter soll den Kurs besuchen(Peter shall attend the lecture).
The former sentence can beinterpreted as:1.
In view of what is known by the speaker/the lis-tener/?, it is necessary that Peter attends the lec-ture (epistemic interpretation)modals in this paper, we will not go into the details.
However, wewill pick up that point in the depiction of our future work.2.
In view of what the conditions of study determines,it is necessary that Peter attends the lecture (deon-tic interpretation)3. in view of someone?s will, it is necessary that Peterattends the lecture (volitional interpretation)4. in view of achieving certain goals in is necessarythat Peter attends the lecture (teleological interpre-tation)and so on.Sollen, however, cannot presuppose conversational back-grounds that are evoked by the subject (cf, von Stechow,2004; Zifonun et al, 1997).
For example, a deontic interpre-tation of Peter soll den Kurs besuchen is not possible withthe respective obligations as conversational backgroundsdetermined by Peter himself.In addition to the modal verbs, mood is also a linguisticmeans to express modality.
Often, mood weakens the modalforce so that sollte does not express the necessity of the em-bedded proposition anymore, but a weaker modal force thatcomes close to possibility.K?nnen and d?rfen seem to be the counterparts of m?ssenand sollen.
They express possibility as modal force.
K?nnenis not confined to specific conversational backgrounds,while d?rfen can ?
similar to sollen - only be used with ex-tra-subjective ideal backgrounds, preferably deontic ones.The sentence(3) Peter darf den Kurs besuchen(Peter may attend the lecture)means: his attendance of the lecture is compatible with hisduties (imposed by someone else), the conditions of study,the will of a third person, some relevant facts, and so on.Although this semantic analysis shows convincingly therelevance of the modal force and the conversational back-grounds for a systematic treatment of the meaning of mo-dals, it cannot be the whole story of the meaning of modals.If conversational backgrounds and modal forces would suf-ficiently explain the meaning of modals, every modal verbwith a restricted set of admissible conversational back-grounds could be replaced by the modals k?nnen andm?ssen, respectively, without changing the meaning of therespective sentence.
Although this might be true with re-spect to the truth conditions of the single sentences, replac-ing the specific modals by more general ones neverthelessresults in sentences with different readings.
For example,replacing the sentence(4) Du darfst den Semantik-Kurs besuchen und du solltestden Syntax-Kurs besuchen (You may attend thesemantics lecture and you should visit the lecture onsyntax)by the sentence(4?)
Du kannst den Semantik-Kurs besuchen und dum?sstest den Syntax-Kurs besuchen (You can attendthe semantics lecture and you ought to attend thelecture on syntax)leads to different prominent meanings: while the first sen-tence clearly expresses a permission and a recommendation,the second one is more neutral with respect to the relevantpragmatic meaning.
Additionally, the second clause ex-presses a weak deontically motivated entailment.Hence, the modal verbs are associated with specific prag-matic conditions for their use.
We will refer to those prag-matics aspects only that are crucial for our treatment of themodals.
We start from the assumption that the uses ofm?ssen and k?nnen do not require specific pragmatic con-straints.
Sollte does not express necessity (as the indicativesollen does) but possibility, and shall be used if the goal ofthe system is to express the proposition as a strong advice.D?rfen shall be used if the system expresses a permissionthat is based on the courses the user has completed success-fully so far, or if the user has the permission to study at all.2 Modality in natural language generationsystemsIn general, there is not much work on the computationaltreatment of modals, be it in NL Understanding or NL Gen-eration.There seems to be a clear gap between the relevance of mo-dality in texts and dialogues produced by human speakersand its consideration in NLG-systems.
While modal expres-sions appear in all kinds of text genres produced by humans,be it newspaper articles or dialogue contributions, their re-alization in NLG-systems did not receive much attention sofar.2 This disregarding of modality might be due to the na-ture of the text types that typically describe entities as, e.g.,animals (Peba-II; Milosavljevic 1997) or air?qualities(TEMSIS, Busemann and Horacek 1997).
All of these gen-eration systems present data or knowledge units that are?true?
in a certain sense.
None of these systems have tocope with an estimation whether some events will happenwith a specific probability, given the information state of thesystem and the user.
However, estimations of such a kindare the basis for the use of modals.Our work is loosely inspired by the treatment of modals inCrouch and Pulman (1993), but differs from their work inseveral crucial respects.
Crouch and Pulman investigate theuse of temporal and modal expressions in an NL-interface toa planner that produces partial plans in an engineering do-main.
Instead of using a modal logic with its underlyingpossible world semantics, the authors determine possibleand necessary propositions against the range of plans avail-able to solve a task.
The necessity relation holds if theproposition (more specifically, the temporal orders and rela-2 This statement might be too strong in case of the use of sys-temic grammars.
Systemic grammars are able to convert complexmodality-related speech-functions into corresponding modal ex-pressions.
However, systemic grammars do not consider contentplanning tasks that we are describing in this paper.tions in the corresponding formula) can be inferred from theplan description.
In contrast to this, a formula is possible ifits negation can be inferred from the plan description.3 The choice of modal verbs in CANWe are currently developing the CAN-system (Conceptuali-zation for Modal Expressions) that generates recommenda-tions about courses of study within the B.A.
program of theRuhr-Universit?t Bochum.
A user provides the system withhis/her current term number and the lectures he/she has fin-ished so far, and the system generates a recommendationwhich lectures he should/must/shall/may/can take.A planner provides the partially ordered plan which de-scribes the progression of the overall study from the currentsemester to the final degree.
The propositions are checked ina piecemeal fashion in order to determine whether they nec-essarily or possibly hold with respect to the conversationalbackground.
This procedure determines the modal force,and a subclass of the relevant modal verbs with it.
After-wards the pragmatic conditions will be checked to select theappropriate modal verb, and that verb is inserted into a syn-tactic template for the corresponding sentence.We confine our analysis to epistemic and deontic meaningsof the aforementioned modal verbs, because these readingsare the most prominent ones in our domain.
Deontic mean-ings are determined by the structure and content of the planto be verbalized.
Epistemic meanings are determined by thediscourse state.
Both knowledge sources will be handled bythe same procedure which makes an extension to other typesof modal meanings manageable.
In other words, we adoptthe bipartite distinction between necessary and possibleformulae, although this might not completely correspond tothe fine-grained modal forces expressed in natural lan-guages.
Furthermore, we adopt the modeling of possibilityas consistency with the conversational background, and ne-cessity as entailment from that background.If one of the modal relations is true, we know what the mo-dal force is, and are able to determine that subclass of modalverbs that expresses the proven modal force.
Otherwise theunderlying proposition will linguistically not be modalized.The deontic background is determined by the plan.
Accord-ing to the partially ordered plan, some lectures can only beattended if other lectures had already been completed suc-cessfully, but this order does not hold between all lectures.The obligation to attend certain lectures during some semes-ter can directly be read from the plan.
The modal force willbe derived from the plans.An epistemic background is given by what the systemknows of the user?s current course of his study and the in-formation provided by the system so far.
For this, we use adiscourse record that keeps track of the user?s input andwhat he has been told.3.1 Planning for the choice of modalsThe task of the planner is to place the obligatory lectures atthe right nodes in the plan, and to determine possible nodesof the optional lectures.
For example, while all students ofLinguistics have to attend a lecture on pragmatics in thethird semester, they can attend an additional lecture with atopic of their own choice, but the student must have satisfiedits prerequisites already.An ?action?
of the plan is realized as a pair that representsthe status of the lecture with respect to the semester (obliga-tory, optional), and the title of the lecture.Suppose a fully specified plan contains the following orderof single lectures, starting with the second semester:2nd semester   3rd semester      4th semesterobl: pragmaticsobl: formal_semantics   obl: syntax      opt:parsingopt: hpsgIf each ?action?
of this part of the plan shall linguistically berealized, only some of the four modal verbs are applicable.The use of the modals depends on the status of the lecturesas being obligatory or optional in a certain semester, and theexistence of certain preconditions of the planning operators.The distinguishing feature of obligatory lectures is that thereare no alternatives for them; they are necessary courses in acertain semester.
Hence, the lectures on semantics and prag-matics will be mentioned in sentences with m?ssen as modalverb.
Optional lectures appear to be more interesting be-cause in principle they can be attended in any semester, aslong as the prerequisites for their attendance have beenachieved by the student.
The prerequisites are modelled aspreconditions of corresponding planning operators.
Linguis-tically, optionality is expressed by modals which expresspossibility as modal force, and the use of these modals isconstrained by additional pragmatic conditions for their use.Whether the optional lectures on HSPG and parsing, respec-tively, will be mentioned in sentences with k?nnen, d?rfen,or sollte depends on the decision to recommend or permitthese lectures, which will be derived from conditions wewill mention in the following section.To sum up, the choice of the appropriate modal verbs de-pends on:- the status of the lecture, whether it is optional orobligatory in one semester,- the user?s possible achievement of prerequisites ofoptional lectures,- the placement of optional lectures in the overallplan,- pragmatic functions like expressing a permission ora recommendation.The first three factors belong to the conversational back-ground, while the last one seems to be an additional con-straint for the use of some of the modal verbs.
Dealing withthese aspects of the conversational background can be char-acterized in the following way:Let P be the plan with the obligatory lectures placed in theright positions, and T(P) the set of all totally specified plansbased on P that include possible placements of the optionallectures.Every lecture in P marked as obligatory is necessary withrespect to the study process.Additionally, for every proposition p we check whether T(P)?
p holds or T(P) ?
{p} is true.
If the former formula istrue, the modal verb m?ssen can be realized.
If the latterformula is true, we have to check whether the pragmaticconditions for the use of one of the modals verbs that ex-press possibility are given in the discourse record.
The cor-responding decision results in the choice of the verb d?rfen,k?nnen, and sollte, respectively.3.1 An example: the choice of d?rfen and sollteThe choice of d?rfen and sollte may illustrate the choicemechanism that takes into account the plan structure and thediscourse state, respectively.Both d?rfen and sollte express possibility as modal force sothat they compete with k?nnen as the unmarked modal verbfor expressing possibility.
Since d?rfen and sollte can onlybe used if specific pragmatic conditions are satisfied (andwith restricted sets of conversational backgrounds), k?nnenwill always be chosen if the modal force is possibility andthe other two modals cannot be used.Expressing a permission by using d?rfen is based on thefollowing conditions:(a) if the user is willing to begin his studies and CANdoes not know whether he is registered at the uni-versity at all, CAN asks for a corresponding con-firmation.
In case of a positive response the per-mission to study the courses of the first semestercan be given, and d?rfen will be used.
(b) If CAN does not know whether some courses aspreconditions of a course are satisfied it asks theuser whether he attended these required courses.The user has to give this information, and the sys-tem integrates the courses into the plan.
Since thepreconditions for the respective course are now sat-isfied, the permission to attend this course will besignalled by the use of d?rfen.In general, our impression is that permissions ?
the prag-matic function of d?rfen when a deontic conversationalbackground becomes relevant ?
can best be derived in dia-logue situations.
An NLG-system that permits to attend acertain course must be set into the position to express thepermission at all.
In our scenario, this is the cased if CANrequires additional information and asks for it.
In this re-spect permissions are different from recommendations ex-pressed by sollte, which can be determined without refer-ence to a dialogue situation.Recommendations declare a certain state of affairs as advan-tageous with respect to some goal.
In our scenario, attendinga course in a specific semester is advantageous for the com-pletion of the course of study, if its attendance optimizes thenumber of semesters that are necessary for that completion.The system checks whether the course can successfully beintegrated into the overall plan and computes the corre-sponding consequences: If attending this course during thecurrent semester does not increase the number of semestersrequired to achieve the completion within the normal dura-tion of study, but a different course does, that is also offeredfor the current semester, then it is advantageous to attendthis course, and the modal sollte is chosen.
In other words,the system compares the consequences of attending courseswith respect to the length of study.4 Future workThe work reported in this paper describes the current stateof the CAN-system.
Our long-term goal is a wide coverageof modal expressions including all German modal verbs aswell as other modals as, e.g., modal nouns, adverbs, andparticles.
The evaluation of the generated modal expressionsis an additional research topic, as well as the interplay ofmodality with mood and temporality.Currently, our discourse record is a simplifying collection ofpropositions, but we will need a more sophisticated versionof this knowledge store if modal subordination [Roberts,1989; Stone, 1999] becomes a topic of our research.
Modalsubordination becomes relevant in sentence pairs of the fol-lowing kind:(5)  Du k?nntest den Semantik-Kurs besuchen.
Dann musstdu im folgenden Semester den Pragmatik-Kurs besu-chen.
(You could attend the semantics lecture.
In thiscase you must attend the lecture on pragmatics in thenext semester.
)In order to choose m?ssen for the second sentence, the hy-pothetical event introduced by the first sentence must beconsidered as background so that ordering sources will be-come an additional factor for a discourse-sensitive choice ofmodals.Finally, the decision to modalize a proposition is oftengrounded in specific dialogue settings like the existence ofsocial power relations between the participants, or their re-spective beliefs of the beliefs states of the addressees.
Weassume that a dialogue situation explains the use of modalsin a more natural way than the current model, as our currenttreatment of permissions already indicates.
Therefore, in thelong run CAN shall be able to react dynamically to user re-quests.References[Busemann and Horacek, 1997] S. Busemann and H.Horacek.
Generating air quality reports from environ-mental data.
Proceedings of the DFKI Workshop onNLG, pages 15-21, 1997.
[Crouch and Pulman, 1993] R.S.
Crouch and S.G. Pulman.Time and modality in a natural language interface to aplanning system.
Artificial Intelligence, 63: 265-304,1993.
[Frank, 1996] A. Frank.
Context dependence in modal con-structions.
Doctoral Dissertation, University of Stuttgart,1996.
[Kratzer, 1977] A. Kratzer.
What ?must?
and ?can?
mustand can mean.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 1:337-355,1977.
[Milosavljevic, 1997] M. Milosavljevic.
Content selectionin comparison generation.
Proceedings of the 6th Euro-pean Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages72-81.
Duisburg, Germany, 1997.
[Roberts, 1989] C. Roberts.
Modal subordination and pro-nominal anaphora in discourse.
Linguistics and Philoso-phy, 12: 683-721, 1989.
[Stone, 1999] M. Stone.
Reference to possible worlds.Technical report, Rutgers.
Available at:http://www.cs.rutgers.edu/~mdstone/[van der Auwera and Plungian, 1998] Modality?s semanticmap.
Linguistic Typology, 2: 79-124, 1998.
[von Stechow, 2004] A. von Stechow.
Schritte zur Satzse-mantik.
Ms., University of T?bingen.
Available at:http://vivaldi.sfs.nphil.uni-tuebingen.de/~arnim10/Lehre/Japan2004/Schritte1_17.pdf[Zifonun et al, 1997] G. Zifonun, L. Hoffmann and B. Stre-cker (eds.)
Grammatik der Deutschen Sprache, Vol.
III;Chapter F5: Bedeutung der Modalverben.
Berlin: Walterde Gruyter, 1997.
