Proceedings of the Second ACL Workshop on Effective Tools and Methodologies for Teaching NLP and CL, pages 57?61,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsTeaching Language Technology at the North-West UniversitySul?ne Pilon Gerhard B van Huyssteen Bertus van Rooysktsp@puk.ac.za ntlgbvh@puk.ac.za ntlajvr@puk.ac.zaResearch Focus Area: Languages and Literature in the South African Context North-West University,Potchefstroom2531South AfricaAbstractThe BA Language Technology programwas recently introduced at the North-WestUniversity and is, to date, the only of itskind in South Africa.
This paper gives anoverview of the program, which consistsof computational linguistic subjects aswell as subjects from languages, computerscience, mathematics, and statistics.
Abrief discussion of the content of the pro-gram and specifically the computationallinguistics subjects, illustrates that the BALanguage Technology program is a voca-tionally directed, future oriented teachingprogram, preparing students for both fu-ture graduate studies and a career in lan-guage technology.
By means of anexample, it is then illustrated how stu-dents and researchers alike benefit fromworking side by side on research and de-velopment projects by using a problem-based, project-organized approach to cur-riculum design and teaching.1 IntroductionA new undergraduate teaching program, BA Lan-guage Technology, was recently introduced at thePotchefstroom Campus of the North-West Univer-sity (NWU).
The introduction of this program wasmotivated by two factors:(a) a need within the Faculty of Arts to developteaching programs that are relevant, vocationallydirected, and future-oriented; and(b) a need in the South African higher educationsystem for capacity building in the field of in lan-guage technology (PanSALB & DACST, 2000).To date, the BA Language Technology programis the only one of its kind in South Africa.
It hastherefore remained imperative that the programequips students adequately to fill positions in theemerging South African language technology in-dustry.
At the same time, students should be ableto continue with graduate studies, and therefore theprogram had to be designed in such a way that stu-dents receive an academic training that incorpo-rates a solid theoretical component alongside theneed to get enough practical experience.
These twoimperatives are reflected in the program structure,and also in the project-based learning approachthat we adopted.2 Program StructureAfter wide consultation with international and lo-cal role players and experts, a program was de-signed that combines language subjects and naturalsciences (mainly computer science, mathematicsand statistics) with a core group of computationallinguistic and language technology subjects.
Thissection offers an overview of the BA LanguageTechnology program.
An example of a typical pro-gram will be given and the modules which formpart of the program will be discussed briefly.The program has a basic core of compulsorymodules, but allows some room for students totake modules based on personal interest and abil-ity.
A student who excels in computer program-ming can choose to take additional modules fromthat field after completing the compulsory mod-ules.
Students may also choose to take more lan-guage or mathematics modules after completingtheir compulsory modules.
There are also a numberof general formative subjects that all students at theUniversity must take, which are not being dis-cussed here.
The basic course structure is presentedin Table 1.57Table 1: BA Language Technology compulsory modules with choicesThe various general formative modules offered atthe university include academic literacy, studyskills, computer literacy and information skills,philosophy and academic and scientific writingcourses.
The elective modules from which the stu-dents can choose are mathematics, computer sci-ence and languages.
The languages from which thestudents can choose are Afrikaans, English orSetswana (regular university courses) or introduc-tory courses (foreign language level) in two SouthAfrican languages, Setswana and isiZulu and twoforeign European languages, German and French.Students are encouraged to take at least oneSouth African language.
This is motivated in partby trends in the macro-political environment.
Ingovernment policy documents, such as the finallanguage policy presented to cabinet, languagetechnology is principally regarded as a means topromote multilingualism and increase access ofinformation in a country with eleven official lan-guages.
In the context of the program itself, it isexpected that students acquire and/or improve theirproficiency in the various languages; students arealso expected to develop basic knowledge of thestructure of the particular languages.
This basicknowledge is then developed further in the module?Linguistics for language technology students?
(second year, first semester).
The module includescomponents of phonetics, morphology and syntax,to enable students to learn how to do detailed lin-guistic data analysis.In the first semester of the second year, studentsare introduced to Language Technology.
An over-view of the field of study is given and it is indi-cated how the knowledge students gained in themodules they have completed, should be put to usewithin the field.
The course also focuses on therelationship between a more practical languagetechnology orientation and a more theoretical natu-ral language processing (NLP) orientation, to en-able students to see the broader picture anddevelop a sense for the coherence of the teachingprogram.Language technologies are the subject of twomodules in the second semester of the third year.They spend equal amounts of time on speech-based technologies and text-based technologies.The focus of these courses is specific languagetechnology applications.
At any given time, thereare a number of ongoing projects at the university.Students are involved in these projects, learning todevelop the specific applications, but also develop-ing general skills for other types of applications,within the framework of project-based learning, aswill be outlined later in this paper.
Students areexpected to participate in ongoing projects on vari-ous levels, ranging from annotating corpora to in-tricate programming ?
depending on their aptitudeand preferences.This is followed by a six-month internship in thefirst semester of the fourth year, at an approvedcompany or higher education or research institu-tion.
Apart from extending their training in the de-velopment of language technology applications,the internship is intended to let students get a ?realYEAR 1 YEAR 2 YEAR 3 YEAR 4First semester First semester First semester First semesterModules Modules Modules ModulesComputer Science(programming)Language Technology:IntroductionIntroduction to NLP Language technology:Internship2 Languages 1 Language 1 CHOICEStatistics (introduction) Computer Science(programming)2 General formative mod-ulesMathematics 1 CHOICEApplied Mathematics2 General formative modulesSecond semester Second semester Second semester Second semesterModules Modules Modules ModulesComputer Science(programming)Language Technology:Linguistics for languagetechnology studentsLanguage Technology:Speech applicationsAdvanced NLP1 Language 1 CHOICE Language Technology:Text applicationsLanguage TechnologyProjectStatistics (Inferential) 2 General formative mod-ules1 CHOICE1 CHOICE58world?
experience in the language technology in-dustry before they have to make career decisions.In their final semester, students have to com-plete a supervised project, which fits in with cur-rent research at the university.
It is important thatstudents should be positive about this project andtherefore students are consulted when project to-pics are chosen.
In this stage of the program, stu-dents have very little class in order to enable themto work on their projects on a full-time base, whichprovides for more practical experience.Students are introduced to Natural LanguageProcessing in the first semester of the third year.This course focuses mainly on statistical tech-niques for the analysis of the kinds of phonetic,morphological and syntactic data that were intro-duced in the second semester of the second year.The logic is that students must be able to analyzedata manually as linguists first, in order to developan appreciation for the capabilities, power andlimitations of statistical NLP methods.An advanced NLP course is offered in the se-cond semester after students have completed theirinternship and while they are working on their ownprojects.
This course is tailored to the individualinterests and needs of the students.
The specificNLP techniques relevant to their projects, as wellas problems they encountered during their intern-ships, serve as guiding principles for the selectionof content.
At the same time, we incorporate a se-lection of hot topics in NLP research and sometechniques for dealing with semantic data.As computational linguistics is a relatively newfield of study in South Africa, students and lectur-ers/researchers have to learn together, even bymaking mistakes and taking ?wrong?
sidetracksduring the learning process.
In order to facilitatethese circumstances, a problem-oriented and pro-ject-organized approach, based on the educationalsystem developed at the Aalborg University, Den-mark, since 1974 (Kjersdam & Enemark, 1994),was taken in the design of the curricula of the Lan-guage Technology and NLP modules.
This meansthat the content of some of the Language Technol-ogy and NLP subjects vary from year to year, de-pending on the current project(s) being conductedat the university.
However, by working alongsideeach other on research and development projects,both students and lecturers engage in active learn-ing, proving to yield excellent results in the acquir-ing of knowledge in the field.
The next sectiondescribes how various research and developmentprojects are integrated in the undergraduate andgraduate teaching programs, in order to facilitatehands-on, outcome-based learning.3  Teaching Approach: Problem-Based,Project-Organized LearningProblem-Based Learning (PBL; also called pro-blem-oriented education) can be defined as learn-ing ?based on working with unsolved, relevant andcurrent problems from society/real life?
By ana-lyzing the problems in depth the students learn anduse the disciplines and theories which are consid-ered to be necessary to solve the problems posed,i.e.
the problem defines the subjects and not thereverse?
(Kjersdam & Enemark, 1994: 16; cf.Schwartz et al, 2001; Macdonald, 2002).
This ap-proach is successfully implemented world-wide inthe teaching of specifically more applied sciences,such as, inter alia, medicine (Albanese & Mitchell,1993; Barrows and Tamblyn, 1980; Moore et al,1994), and engineering (De Graaf & Kolmos,2003; Fink, 2002).Within the context of computational linguistics,this "applied-teaching approach" maintains a dy-namic triangular equilibrium between training, re-search and product development, servingresearchers, students, and the industry alike.
A pro-ject-organized approach offers lecturers an oppor-tunity to align course material with their researchprojects, while students are enabled to gain ?com-prehensive knowledge of the development of theo-retical and methodological tools?
(Kjersdam andEnemark, 1994: 17).
Therefore, after completion oftheir formal studies, students should be able tocontribute to research and the development oforiginal paradigms to solve new and complexproblems in the future.In the BA Language Technology program, PBLis incorporated with project-organized education intwo ways.
On the one hand various project-basedmodules are included in the curriculum.
For in-stance in the third year of study, the modules?Language Technology: Speech Applications?
and?Language Technology: Text Applications?
areintroduced, where students have to develop varioussmall modules for both speech and text technologi-cal applications (e.g.
a simple rule-based stemmer).In the final year of study, the largest part of theyear is spent on independent project work, which is59conducted either at the university, or while doingan internship elsewhere.
These projects are on amuch larger scale than the third year projects, withthe possibility to build on the work of the previousyear (e.g.
to develop a more sophisticated stemmer,using more advanced NLP techniques).On the other hand, some of the other modules(e.g.
the ?Natural Language Processing?
modules)are more project-driven, since they are organizedaround existing research projects.
Students aremostly drawn in on a so-called ?design-oriented?level, i.e.
where they have to deal with ?know-howproblems which can be solved by theories andknowledge they have acquired in their lectures?
(Kjersdam & Enemark, 1994: 7).
After the projectand the problems related to the project are ex-plained to students, they get involved by collectingdata, identifying possible/different solutions, for-mulating rules and algorithms, analyzing data,evaluating different components, etc.
In this waythey get know-how and experience in theoretical,methodological, and implementation issues.This can be illustrated by a recent example,where work on a spelling checker project was inte-grated in the curricula of various modules.
In thisproject, involving the development of spellingcheckers for five different South African lan-guages, a variety of NLP techniques were imple-mented in the various spelling checkers, dependingon the orthographical complexity of and resourcesavailable for a specific language.
For instance, lan-guages such as Tswana and Northern Sotho have arelatively simple orthographical structure (in thesense that it is more disjunctive), and a straight-forward lexicon-based approach to spelling check-ing therefore suffice for these languages.
Incontrast, Afrikaans, Zulu and Xhosa are ortho-graphically more complex languages, requiring aspelling checking approach based on morphologi-cal analysis or decomposition, which is of coursemore interesting from a computational linguisticperspective.
For all of these languages, almost noresources were available at the start of the project,posing a huge but interesting challenge (e.g.
couldavailable technologies for other languages, such asa Porter stemmer, be adapted for these lan-guages?
).From the onset of the spelling checker project,students were involved in all aspects of the project.Using Jurafsky & Martin (2000) as a point of de-parture, students were introduced to the basic pro-blems of spelling checking, relating it to thecurrent project and specifically to the challengesposed by spelling checking for Afrikaans (e.g.
pro-ductive concatenative compound formation, deri-vational word formation, etc.).
Students werethoroughly involved in all discussions of the aimsof the project, potential problems and possible so-lutions, as well as the general system architecture(i.e.
students were involved on the design-orientedlevel).
Students were therefore introduced to basicconcepts such as tokenization, stemming, andLevenshtein Distance (for purposes of generatingsuggestions), within a real-world context.After the planning and design phase, each stu-dent got involved in solving different problems ofthe project, e.g.
developing a stemmer (using fi-nite-state techniques) and a compound analyzer(using machine-learning techniques), the automaticgeneration of a lexicon, evaluating spelling check-ers (within the broader context of the evaluation ofNLP applications), etc.
Although each studentworked separately on different problems, theywere forced to extend their experience by helpingeach other with their different tasks, thereby ex-panding their general knowledge and experience.In this way, students also came to learn that differ-ent problems call for different approaches: to usefinite-state techniques for hyphenation in Afri-kaans is simply to labor-intensive, while machinelearning offers highly efficient solutions to theproblem.
An introduction to machine learning wastherefore also introduced in the curriculum.The advantages of this approach proved to bemany: not only did the project benefit from thesub-projects of each of the students, but studentsgot the feeling that they were involved in ?impor-tant?
and relevant work.
They got the opportunityto apply the theoretical knowledge they acquired inthe classes in a practical, hands-on environment, toimprove their understanding of the theories andconcepts of the study field, and to solve real-worldproblems.
Additionally, members of staff wereenabled to harmonize their research and teachingresponsibilities, optimizing the quality and quantityof their outputs.
Moreover, existing students weremotivated to continue with their studies in compu-tational linguistics on MA level (where they areworking on more advanced problems), while un-dergraduate student numbers increased (which canbe ascribed to a greater awareness of languagetechnology in the community, brought about par-60tially by media coverage of the project, focusingon the promotion of multilingualism and languageempowerment).4 ConclusionSince its very inception, the BA Language Tech-nology program at the North-West University wasdesigned as a vocationally directed, future-orientedteaching program.
A curriculum with a core ofcomputational linguistic subjects, strengthened bya strong foundation in languages, computer sci-ence, mathematics, and statistics, equips studentsboth with enough practical experience to startworking in the industry, and with enough theoreti-cal knowledge to continue with postgraduate stu-dies.By taking a problem-based, project-organizedapproach to curriculum design, students and re-searchers alike benefit from working side by sideon research and development projects (as illustra-ted by the incorporation of a spelling checker pro-ject in the curricula of various subjects).
The sameapproach is followed in other subjects, such as"Language Technology: Speech Applications",where students are working in collaboration withtheir lecturers on various speech-based projects.
Asnew research projects are initiated, the curricula ofthe various subjects are adapted accordingly.
Forexample, in 2005 a new research project on syntac-tic parsing commenced ?
consequently, new stu-dents are confronted with other problems than theirpredecessors, while still learning, for example,about the differences between linguistic and statis-tical approaches to NLP.
With the help of studentsin the program and others involved, the program isconstantly evaluated and adjusted accordingly,thereby ensuring that it delivers well-educated andinformed students, prepared for the challenges of acareer in language technology.ReferencesAlbanese MA & Mitchell S. 1993.
Problem-based learn-ing: A review of literature on its outcomes and im-plementation issues.
Academic Medicine 68, 52-81.Barrows HS & Tamblyn RM.
1980.
Problem-BasedLearning: An Approach to Medical Education.
NewYork: Springer Publishing Company.De Graaff, E & Kolmos, A.
2003.
Characteristics ofProblem-Based Learning.
International Journal ofEngineering Education 19(5).Fink, FK.
2002.
Problem-Based Learning in engineeringeducation: a catalyst for regional industrial develop-ment.
World Transactions on Engineering and Tech-nology Education 1(1): 29-32.Jurafsky, D & Martin, JH.
2000.
Speech and languageprocessing : an introduction to natural languageprocessing.
Upper Saddle River: Prentice Hall, 2000.Kjersdam F & Enemark S. 1994.
The Aalborg Experi-ment: Project Innovation in University Education.Aalborg: Aalborg University Press.Macdonald R. 2002.
Problem-based learning: some ref-erences.
Available at: [WWW:]www.ics.ltsn.ac.uk/pub/pbl [Accessed 5 May 2003].Moore GT, Block SD, Briggs Style C & Mitchell R.1994.
The influence of the New Pathway curriculumon Harvard medical students.
Academic Medicine 69,983-989.Pan South African Language Board (PanSALB) & De-partment of Arts, Culture, Science and Technology(DACST).
2000.
The development of Human Lan-guage Technologies in South Africa: Strategic Plan-ning.
(Report by the joint steering committee).Pretoria: Government Printers.
Available at:www.dac.gov.za/about_us/cd_nat_language/lan-guage_planning/hlt_strategic_plan/hlt_strategic_plan2.htm#policy [Accessed April 1, 2005].Schwartz P, Mennin S & Webb G. 2001.
Problem-based Learning: Case Studies, Experience and Prac-tice.
London: Kogan Page.61
