Proceedings of the Second ACL Workshop on Effective Tools and Methodologies for Teaching NLP and CL, pages 43?48,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsLanguage Technology from a European PerspectiveHans Uszkoreit,Valia KordoniVladislav Kubon Michael Rosner Sabine Kirchmeyer-AndersenDept.
of ComputationalLinguisticsUFAL MFF UK Dept.
of Computer Sci-ence and A.I.Dept.
of ComputationalLinguisticsSaarland University Charles University University of Malta Copenhagen BusinessSchoolD-66041, Saarbruecken,GermanyPrague, Czech Republic Msida, Malta Copenhagen, Denmark{uszkoreit,kordoni}@coli.uni-sb.devk@ufal.mff.cuni.cz mike.rosner@um.edu.mtska.id@cbs.dkAbstractThis paper describes the cooperation offour European Universities aiming at at-tracting more students to European masterstudies in Language and CommunicationTechnologies.
The cooperation has beenformally approved within the frameworkof the new European program ?ErasmusMundus?
as a Specific Support Action in2004.
The consortium also aims at creat-ing a sound basis for a joint master pro-gram in the field of language technologyand computer science.1 European higher education: ErasmusMundusThe Erasmus Mundus programme [1] is a co-operation and mobility program in the field ofhigher education.
It aims to enhance quality inEuropean higher education and to promote inter-cultural understanding through co-operation withnon-EU countries.The program is intended to strengthen Europeanco-operation and international links in higher edu-cation by supporting high-quality European Mas-ters Courses, by enabling students and visitingscholars from around the world to engage in post-graduate study at European universities, as well asby encouraging the outgoing mobility of Europeanstudents and scholars towards non-EU countries.The Erasmus Mundus program comprises fourconcrete actions:ACTION 1 - Erasmus Mundus Masters Courses:high-quality integrated courses at masters leveloffered by a consortium of at least three universi-ties in at least three different European countries.ACTION 2 - Erasmus Mundus scholarships: ascholarship scheme for non-EU-country graduatestudents and scholars from the whole world.ACTION 3 - Partnerships: Erasmus Mundus Mas-ters Courses selected under Action 1 also have thepossibility of establishing partnerships with non-EU-country higher education institutions.ACTION 4 - Enhancing attractiveness: projectsaimed at enhancing the attractiveness of the Euro-pean higher education.2 LATEROne of the projects approved for funding (and theonly one in the field of language technology) in the2004 call is called LATER ?
Language Technol-ogy Erasmus Mundus [2].LATER falls under action 4 of the program andhence addresses the need to enhance the attractive-ness of European higher education in Language43Technology and Communication (LCT).
This needwill be met through dissemination of the combinedLCT-related expertise in of a consortium of Uni-versities whose members are as followsSaarland University in Saarbruecken (CoLi)The Department of Computational Linguisticsand Phonetics (CoLi) of Saarland University (co-ordinator) has an excellent international reputationfor graduate training in Language Technologies,and for leading-edge basic research in this area.CoLi offers a new M.Sc.
program in LanguageScience and Technology [3].
This is an active pro-gram of basic, applied and cognitive research,which combines with state-of-the-art facilities toprovide students with a rich and stimulating envi-ronment for their research.
Moreover, CoLi offersa European Ph.D. program in Language Technol-ogy and Cognitive Systems.
In the past 15 years,CoLi has provided postgraduate research trainingto 100 early-stage researchers [4].Charles University, Prague (?FAL)The Institute of Formal and Applied Linguistics(?FAL) at the Faculty of Mathematics and Physicsof the Charles University in Prague offers a five-year master program in Computer Science withseveral specialized branches.
One of the branchesof this program is the masters in Computationaland Formal Linguistics [7].
It focuses mainly onthe following four topics: formal description ofnatural language, grammars and automata in lin-guistics, methods of artificial intelligence in lin-guistics, as well as methods of automatic naturallanguage processing.University of Malta (UoM)The Department of Computer Science and Arti-ficial Intelligence at the University of Malta, estab-lished in 1993, teaches both Bachelors and Mastersdegree programs.
The 4-year BSc.
(Hons) schemeinclude several streams relevant to LanguageTechnology including NLP and ComputationalLinguistics itself, Information Retrieval, SemanticWeb, Internet and Agent technologies.
The De-partment also runs a, one-year research orientedM.Sc.
program [10].
The areas of specializationinclude the development of computational tools,techniques and resources for Maltese, the only se-mitic language to enjoy official EU status.Copenhagen Business School (CBS)The Department of Computational Linguisticsis part of the Faculty of Modern Languages at theCopenhagen Business School.
The Department isactively involved in research in the following fourcore fields: formal descriptions of the Danish lan-guage, modeling of knowledge relevant for LSP,LSP databases, and Machine Translation.
Embed-ded in this context is the Master of Language Ad-ministration (MLA) [9] that the Department ofComputational Linguistics of the CopenhagenBusiness School offers in co-operation with theUniversity of Southern Denmark in Roskilde3 Overall aims of the projectThe overall aim of the project is to export thecommon educational experience currently embod-ied within existing Masters programs of the con-sortium to scholars and students of non-EUcountries.This aim will be realized by several differentclasses of activity under the rubrics of (i) work-shops (ii) distance learning tools and (iii) coordina-tion of a common Master program.
We discussthese in the following sections.3.1 WorkshopsOne of the most important types of activities ofthe project is organizing workshops and coursesboth for students from non-EU countries and fortheir teachers.
The effect of these events is at leasttwofold ?
the students from countries or regionswhich do not have an access to any higher degreeeducation in LCT get a chance to broaden theirperspective by listening to lectures of prominentscientists and lecturers.
The courses will also helpthe consortium to establish better contacts withnon-EU Universities, teachers, and students whichwill turn out to be invaluable when disseminatingthe common European Master program in Lan-guage Technology discussed further below.Both ?FAL and CoLi have a long tradition inrespect of offering such courses to students fromthe broadest possible range of countries.
?FAL has devoted a huge effort in the past toraise funding for the organization, once or twice ayear, of a series of lectures by prominent scientistsand lecturers from all over the world.
This series oflectures, the Vilem Mathesius courses [6], havebecome well-known, especially among the Central44and East European students of computational andgeneral linguistics.This year?s course, held in March under the aus-pices of LATER, was able to support  the atten-dance of 50 students from Russia, Ukraine,Albania, Bosnia, Serbia, Croatia and Georgia tolectures by prominent individuals including twoACL award winners.At CoLi, the Computational Linguistics Collo-quium is also a traditional event attracting the at-tention of both well-known lecturers and a numberof master and postgraduate students from variouscountries.
A second series of lectures in the frameof our project was held at the University of Saar-landes in Saarbruecken in January.A third event, organized by the CBS, will takeplace in June.
The first day consists of informationseminar on content management and languagetechnology to promote CBS?
newly-launched In-ternational Master of Language Administration,whilst the second will be devoted to diffusion of avarious issues connected to the Erasmus Munduscourse.Finally, a fourth event, in the form of a work-shop with invited guest lecturers, is being organ-ized at the University of Malta that will take placein September 2005.
The theme of the workshopwill be Machine Translation which is currentlyvery topical given the newly-achieved officialEuropean status that the local language now enjoys.3.2 Coordination of Masters ProgramsA second important aim of the LATER projectis the definition, coordination and implementationof an integrated European Masters Programme inLCT by creating a common basis that will appealto both European and non-EU students.The rationale behind the creation of such a pro-gramme is the assumption that LCT now occupiesa central position in research and education inEurope, being a key enabling technology for nu-merous applications related to the information so-ciety, although the shortage of qualifiedresearchers and developers is slowing down thespeed of innovation in Europe.The proposed programme addresses this short-age by creating a directed education and trainingopportunity for the next generation of LCT innova-tors in that will in turn bring educational, socialand economic benefits.
Some specific aims ofErasmus Mundus are also addressed: Europeaneducation in LCT will be promoted worldwide andits competitiveness increased, increasing at thesame time the competitiveness of European IT in-dustries, creating a multilingual information soci-ety that is accessible for all, and turning the``information overload'' into a wealth of accessibleand useful knowledge.3.3 Distance learning toolsA third aim of LATER is the development ofeffective methods of hosting and integrating non-EU students, for example by developing distancelearning tools and joint distance education modules,in order to facilitate outreach by online dissemina-tion of courses.
An example of such modules, aswell as for computer-based tools, is being devel-oped on the basis of the virtual courses CoLi hasdeveloped in the last 3 years in the framework ofthe MiLCA project (Medienintensive Lehrmodulein der Computerlinguistik-Ausbildung1).We also plan to explore the use of collaborationtechnologies based on Sitescape [16], that havebeen developed at CBS for academic collaboration,for the management of certain aspects of the pro-posed Masters programme.The fruits of various initiatives already underway at UoM will be exploited and extended duringthe life of the proposed course.
These include in-teractive web based course delivery [13], just-in-time support based on P2P architectures [14],XML-based frameworks for online courses [15],the latter being developed within as a part of theMediterranean Virtual University (MVU)EUMEDIS project [17].4 Integrated European LCT MastersProgrammeWhilst many agree with the above assessment ofthe importance of LCT, they disagree on the defi-nition of ?integrated course?.
Fortunately, we canturn to the comprehensive definition supplied bythe EU call, the central element of which is ?ajointly developed curriculum or full recognition bythe consortium of modules which are developed1 for more see http://milca.sfs.uni-tuebingen.de/index.html.45and delivered separately, but make up a commonstandard Masters course.
?Again, some turn away in horror at the notion ofa standard curriculum in this area, the claim beingthat there is already enough standardization in theworld, so why add to it?
The point is, any pro-gramme dealing with LCT has to address the factthat it is highly interdisciplinary, including, at thecore, computer science, computational and theo-retical linguistics, and mathematics, and at the pe-riphery, a wide variety of other subjects includingelectrical engineering, psychology, cognitive sci-ence artificial intelligence etc.With such a large number of disciplines in-volved, it is practically impossible for a singleUniversity to excel in all of them.
However if morethan one University is involved, various kinds ofcurriculum sharing can be envisaged and so amuch higher level of coverage becomes entirelyachievable.Put another way, curriculum sharing, togetherwith common admission and assessment proce-dures envisaged, allows delivery of a complexcourse to be handled by what is effectively a ?su-peruniversity?.4.1 Integration in practiceTo put this idea into practice we are proposingthat students will get the chance to attend a twoyears?
master program at two universities chosenfrom a larger consortium, which is currently beingput together.
It includes the four original partnersof the LATER project and the following new part-ners: University of Amsterdam (UvA) in the Neth-erlands, Free University of Bolzano-Bozen (FUB)in Italy, the Universities of Nancy 1 and Nancy 2in France, Roskilde University in Denmark andUtrecht University in the Netherlands.Studying in multi-national groups at two uni-versities in Europe, with English as instructionlanguage, accompanied by language classes in an-other European language, will contribute to thestudents' preparation for the increasing globaliza-tion of science, commerce and industry.
Thecourse also will also prepare students for follow-upPh.D.
studies provided by the participating partnersand others.The proposed programme follows the Bolognamodel for higher education in Europe and com-prises 120 ECTS2 credits, 30 of which make up theMasters dissertation, and 90 of which are course-work credits structured as follows:?
Compulsory modules in Computer Science (28ECTS)?
Compulsory modules in Language Technology(28 ECTS)?
Advanced modules in Language Technology,Computational Linguistics and Computer Sci-ence (34 ECTS)Coursework is distributed over three semesters,while the dissertation is supposed to be completedin the fourth semesterIt is important to underline that this structurepermits a considerable degree of variation.
First, amodule might be ?implemented?
by different set ofcourses at different Universities.
Secondly, the ad-vanced modules are electives, based on the specificstrengths in research and teaching of individualpartner institutions.
There is no requirement thatthe advanced modules offered by different Univer-sities should coincide.Let us now introduce individual modules inmore detail.
Parentheses indicate ECTS credits.Computer Science ModulesThe Computer Science Modules are as follows:?
Logic, Computability and Complexity (?
9)Topics: Logic & inference; Computability the-ory; Complexity theory; Discrete mathematics?
Formal Languages and Algorithms (?
9)Topics: Formal grammars and languages hier-archy; Parsing and compiler design; Searchtechniques and constraint resolution; Auto-mated Learning?
Data Structures, Data Organization andProcessing (?
6)Topics: Algebraic data types; Relational data-bases; Semi-structured data and XML; Informa-tion retrieval; Digital libraries?
Advanced Modules and Applications(?
6)Topics: Artificial Intelligence, Knowledge?epresentation, Automated Reasoning,Semantic Web, Neural Networks, MachineLearning etc.
Students are expected to obtain atleast 9 ECTS credits from each of the first two2 European Credit Transfer System: a standard measure that isused in Europe for comparing the size of courses.46modules and 6 ECTS credits from each of theremaining two modules.Language Technology ModulesThe Language Technology Modules are these:?
Foundations of Language Technology (?
6)Topics: Statistical methods; Symbolic methods;Cognition; Corpus Linguistics; Text andspeech; Foundations of Linguistics?
Computational Syntax and Morphology (?
9)Topics: Finite state methods; Probabilistic ap-proaches; Formal grammars; Tagging; Chunk-ing; Parsing?
Computational Semantics, Pragmatics andDiscourse (?
6)Topics: Syntax-semantics interface; Semanticconstruction; Dialogue; Formal semantics?
Advanced Modules and Applications(?
6) Topics: Machine Translation, Informa-tion Retrieval, Speech Recognition, QuestionAnswering, Psycholinguistics etc..4.2 Main issues to be addressedAlthough it was not explicitly mentioned in theprevious text, the integration of existing masterprogrammes is done exclusively pair-wise.
Thestudents can?t study at three universities (althoughthe rules of the Erasmus Mundus programme allowsuch triangular cooperation).
The restrictionswithin our consortia go even further ?
the studentsdo not have a free choice of a combination of anytwo universities from within the consortium, theymust choose one of the pairs offered by the consor-tium.The reason for such a restriction is pretty simple- it turned out that although all members of theconsortia in principle provide education both inComputer Science and in Computational Linguis-tics, they differ in the balance between these twofields.
Within the consortium, there are universitieswith a strong stress on a Computer Science courses,aiming at a complex education including the soundtheoretical background in the field, while otheruniversities offer a more practically oriented edu-cational scheme, stressing the concepts attracting awider audience, e.g.
various types of web tech-nologies, databases, data mining etc.As a result of this, each university participates inan average of four bilateral partnerships.
We thinkthat the fact that the consortium consists of univer-sities which are not identical greatly increases thevariety of options available.
They have a chance tochoose those universities which are best suited totheir preferences whether these are in terms of sub-ject area emphasis or geographical region.The preparation of the integrated Master pro-gramme doesn?t stop at matching the universitiesand lectures offered.
Erasmus Mundus is not just acooperation, it is really a completely new schemewhich must also address practical issues as grades,examination procedures, admission procedure, tui-tion fees, defense of the thesis, local specialtiesexisting at some partner universities etc.The proposed Masters programme is somethingnew.
It is the first attempt to create a comprehen-sive Masters degree in this subject area that con-forms to all the legalistic requirements of eachparticipating University.
Students completing thecourse will possess a Masters degree delivered bytwo of the participant Universities.
This is in con-trast to the existing European Master in Languageand Speech [11], which is implemented through acertification procedure that does not replace anylegal degree that a student may obtain from a Uni-versity.5 ConclusionAlthough the process of establishing a new Euro-pean Master programme in Language Technologywas really very complicated, time consuming andpainful, there are definitely already at this stagevery positive results.In order to submit a proposal, our consortiumhas managed to overcome all formal and structuraldifferences among all partners, it has found a rea-sonable model of cooperation, it has developed ahigh-quality master programme open both to Euro-pean and non-EU students.The wide variety of modules and topics offeredcombined with a relatively high degree of freedomof choice for students allows for individual pairs ofpartner universities to promote those courses andfields in which they excel.
The students are ofcourse offered individual guidance from consor-tium members in order to allow them to identifythat pair of universities which best suits their indi-vidual needs and preferences47The strategy we have chosen ?
the initial coop-eration of a smaller consortium in the LATER pro-ject, promoting LTC education among the studentsfrom outside the EU and testing our ability both tooffer a coordinated high-quality education and toattract a reasonable amount of interested students,has turned to be a sound one.
It also helped tosolve some issues in the larger consortium basedon the experience from the smaller one.References[1] http://europa.eu.int/comm/education/programmes/mundus/index_en.html(Erasmus Mundus web page)[2] http://europa.eu.int/comm/education/programmes/mundus/projects/2004/47.pdf (The description of the LATER pro-ject)[3] http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/msc/ (the MSc website atthe University of Saarlandes in Saar-bruecken)[4] http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/kvv/ (courses at the Dept.of Computational Linguistics at the Uni-versity of Saarlandes in Saarbruecken)[5] http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/courses/late2/ (the webpage of the Language Technology IIcourse in Saarbruecken)[6] http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/vmc/vmc_ls20.html (the web page of the VilemMathesius Lecture Series)[7] http://www.mff.cuni.cz/toUTF8.en/studium/bcmgr/ok/i1b53.htm (the masterprogramme in Mathematical Linguistics atthe Charles University in Prague)[8] http://web.cbs.dk/stud_pro/clmdatauk.shtml (the master program at the Co-penhagen Business School)[9] http://uk.cbs.dk/mla (Master of Lan-guage Administration at the CopenhagenBusiness School)[10] http://www.cs.um.edu.mt/research/pgEnquiries.html (the masterprogram at the University of Malta)[11] http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/euromasters (European Masters inLanguage and Speech)[12] A.Burchardt, S. Walter and M.Pinkal.
2004.
"MiLCA -- Distance Educa-tion in Computational Linguistics".
InSzucs, Andras and Bo, Ingeborg(eds.
),  New Challenges and Partnershipsin an Enlarged European Union ?
Proc.2004 EDEN Conference, Budapest, pp.351-356.
[13] Ellul, C., 2002, ?Just-in-Time Lec-ture Delivery, Management and StudentSupport System?, BSc.
Project report,Dept.
CSAI, University of Malta.
[14] Bezzina, R., 2002, ?Peer-to-PeerJust-in-Time Support for Curriculum basedLearning?, BSc.
Project report, Dept.CSAI, University of Malta.
[15] Cachia, E., and Micallef, M., forth-coming, ?A Universal XML/XSLTFramework for Online Courses?, Proc.
In-ternational Conference  on IT-BasedHigher Education And Training (ITHET)?,Dominican Republic.
[16] www.sitescape.com : SiteScapecorporate website.
[17] http://www.eumedis.net/en/project/22: Mediterranean Virtual University(MVU) description.48
