Projecting POS tags and syntactic dependencies from English and Frenchto Polish in aligned corporaSylwia OzdowskaERSS - CNRS & Universit?
Toulouse-le MirailMaison de la Recherche5 all?es Antonio MachadoF-31058 Toulouse Cedex 9ozdowska@univ-tlse2.frAbstractThis paper presents the first step to projectPOS tags and dependencies from Englishand French to Polish in aligned corpora.Both the English and French parts of thecorpus are analysed with a POS taggerand a robust parser.
The English/Polishbi-text and the French/Polish bi-text arethen aligned at the word level with theGIZA++ package.
The intersection ofIBM-4 Viterbi alignments for both trans-lation directions is used to project the an-notations from English and French to Pol-ish.
The results show that the precisionof direct projection vary according to thetype of induced annotations as well as thesource language.
Moreover, the perfor-mances are likely to be improved by defin-ing regular conversion rules among POStags and dependencies.1 IntroductionA clear imbalance may be observed between lan-guages, such as English or French, for which anumber of NLP tools as well as different linguisticresources exist (Leech, 1997) and those for whichthey are sparse or even absent, such as Polish.One possible option to enrich resource-poor lan-guages consists in taking advantage of resource-rich/resource-poor language aligned corpora to in-duce linguistic information for the resource-poorside from the resource-rich side (Yarowski et al,2001; Borin, 2002; Hwa et al, 2002).
For Pol-ish, this has been made possible on account of itsaccessing to the European Union (EU) which hasresulted in the construction of a large multilingualcorpus of EU legislative texts and a growing inter-est for new Member States languages.This paper presents a direct projection of vari-ous morpho-syntactic informations from Englishand French to Polish.
First, a short survey of re-lated works is made in order to motivate the is-sues addressed in this study.
Then, the principle ofannotation projection is explained and the frame-work of the experiment is decribed (corpus, POStagging and parsing, word alignment).
The re-sults of applying the annotation projection princi-ple from two different source languages are finallypresented and discussed.2 BackgroundYarowski, Ngai and Wicentowski (2001) haveused annotation projection from English in orderto induce statistical NLP tools for instance for Chi-nese, Czech, Spanish and French.
Different kindsof analysis were produced: POS tagging, nounphrase bracketing, named entity tagging and in-flectional morphological analysis, and relied on totrain statistical tools for each task.
The authors re-port that training allows to overcome the problemof erroneous and incomplete word alignment thusimproving the accuracy as compared to direct pro-jection: 96% for core POS tags in French.The study proposed by Hwa, Resnik, Weinbergand Kolak (2002) aims at quantifying the degree towhich syntactic dependencies are preserved in En-glish/Chinese aligned corpora.
Syntactic relation-ships are projected to Chinese either directly or us-ing elementary transformation rules which leads to68% precision and about 66% recall.Finally, Borin (2002) has tested the projectionof major POS tags and associated grammaticalinformations (number, case, person, etc.)
from53Swedish to German.
95% precision has beenobtained for major POS tags1 whereas associ-ated grammatical informations have turned outnot to be applicable across the studied languages.A rough comparison has been made betweenSwedish, German and additional languages (Pol-ish, English and Finnish).
It tends to show thatit should be possible to derive indirect yet regularPOS correspondences, at least across fairly similarlanguages.The projection from French and English to Pol-ish presented in this paper is basically a directone.
It concerns different linguistic informations:POS tags and associated grammatical informationas well as syntactic dependencies.
Regarding theworks mentioned above, uneven results are ex-pected depending on the type of annotations in-duced.
This is the first point this study considers.The second one is to identify regularity in render-ing some French or English POS tags or depen-dencies with some Polish ones.
Finally, the idea isto test if the results vary significantly with respectto the source language used for the induction.3 Projecting morpho-syntacticannotationsWe take as the starting point of annotation projec-tion the direct correspondence assumption as for-mulated in (Hwa et al, 2002): ?for two sentencesin parallel translation, the syntactic relationshipsin one language directly map the syntactic rela-tionships in the other?, and extend it to POS tagsas well.
The general principle of annotation pro-jection in aligned corpora may be explained as fol-lows:if two words w1 and w2 are translation equiv-alents within aligned sentences, the morpho-syntactic informations associated to w1 areassigned to w2In this study, the projected annotations are POStags, with gender and number subcategories fornouns and adjectives, on one hand, and syntacticdependencies on the other hand.Let us take the example of Commission andKomisja, respectively w1i and w2m, two alignedwords (figure 1).
In accordance with the annota-tion projection principle, Komisja is first assignedthe POS N (noun) as well as the information onits number, sg (singular), and gender f (feminine).1Assessed on correct alignments.Furthermore, the dependencies connecting w1i toother words w1j are examined.
Foreach w1j , ifthere is an alignment linking w1j and w2n, the de-pendency identified between w1i and w2j is pro-jected to w2m and w2n.
For example, the nounCommission (w1i) is syntactically connected tothe verb adopte (w1j) through the subject relationand adopte is aligned to przyjmuje (w2n).
There-fore, it is possible to induce a dependency relation,namely a subject one, between Komisja (w2m) andprzyjmuje (w2n)2.NfsgNfsgsubjKomisja przyjmuje roczny programLa Commission adopte un programme  annuelVVNmsgDET ADJmsgADJmsg NmsgDETsubjFigure 1: Projection of POS tags and dependen-cies from French to PolishThe induced dependencies are given the same la-bel as the source dependencies that is to say thatthe noun Komisja and the verb przyjmuje are con-nected through the subject relation.
Moreover, inthis preliminary study, the projection is basicallylimited to cases where there is exactly one relationgoing from w1i and w1j on the one hand, and fromw2m and w2n on the other hand.
Thus, as shownin figure 2, the relation connecting Komisja andprzyjmuje could not be induced from English sinceCommission and adapt are not linked directly butby means of the modal shall.AUX ADJADJ NDET DETauxsubjNN VVKomisja przyjmuje roczny programNThe Commission shall adopt an annual programFigure 2: Projection of POS tags and dependen-cies from English to Polish2The POS and the additional grammatical informationsavailable are also projected from the verb adopte to przyj-muje.54The only exception concerns the complement andprepositional complement relations.
Indeed, Pol-ish is a highly inflected language which meansthat: 1) word order is less constrained than inFrench and English 2) syntactic relations betweenwords are indicated by the case.
This is the reasonwhy, going back to figure 1, the projection fromthe nouns programme and travail, linked by thepreposition de, results in the induction of a rela-tion between the nouns program and pracy.4 Experimental framework4.1 Bi-textsThe countries wishing to join the EU have first toapprove the Acquis Communautaire.
The Acquiscommunautaire encompasses the core EU law, itsresolutions and declarations as well as the com-mon aims pursued since its creation in the 1950s.It comprises about 8,000 documents that havebeen translated and published by official institu-tions3 thus ensuring a high quality of translation.Each language version of the Acquis is consideredsemantically equivalent to the others and legallybinding.
This collection of documents is madeavailable on Europe?s website4.The AC corpus is made of a part of the Acquis textsin 20 languages5, and in particular the languagesof the new Member States6.
It has been collectedand aligned at the sentence level by the LanguageTechnology team at the Joint Research Centreworking for the European Commision7 (Erjavecet al, 2005; Pouliquen and Steinberger, 2005).It is one of the largest parallel corpus regardingits size8 and the number of different languages itcovers.
A portion of the English, French and Pol-ish parts form the multilingual parallel corpus se-lected for this study.
Table 1 gives the main fea-tures of each part of the corpus.3Only European Community legislation printed in the pa-per edition of the Official Journal of the European Union isdeemed authentic.4http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex5German, English, Danish, Spanish, Estonian, Finish,French, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Mal-tese, Deutch, Polish, Portugese, Slovak, Slovene, Swedishand Czech.6In 2004, the EU welcomed ten new Member States:Cyprus, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland,Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia.7http://www.jrc.cec.eu.int/langtech/index.html8The number of word forms goes from 6 up to 13 millionaccording to the language.
The parts corresponding to thelanguages of the new Member States range from 6 up to 10million word forms as compared to 10 up to 13 million forEnglish French Polishword forms 562,458 809,036 764,684sentences 52,432Table 1: AC ?
the English/French/Polish parallelcorpus4.2 Bi-text processing4.2.1 POS taggingBoth the English and French parts of the corpushave been POS tagged and parsed.
The POS tag-ging has been performed using the TreeTagger(Schmidt, 1994).
Among the morpho-syntactic in-formations provided by the TreeTagger?s tagset,only the main distinctions are kept for further anal-ysis: noun, verb, present participle, adjective, pastparticiple, adverb, pronoun and conjunction (co-ordination and subordination).
Nouns, adjectivesand past participles are assigned data related totheir number and gender and verbs are assignedinformation on voice, gender and form (infinitiveor not), if available (table 2).
The TreeTagger?soutput is given as input to the parser after a post-processing stage which modifies the tokenization.Some multi-word units are conflated (for exam-ple complex prepositions such as in accordancewith, as well as for English, conform?ment ?, sousforme de for French, adverbs like in particular, atleast, en particulier, au moins, or even verbs pren-dre en consid?ration, avoir recours).4.2.2 ParsingEach post-processed POS-tagged corpus is anal-ysed with a deep and robust dependency parser:SYNTEX (Fabre and Bourigault, 2001; Bourigaultet al, fothcoming).
For each sentence, SYN-TEX identifies syntactic relations between wordssuch as subject (SUBJ), object (OBJ), preposi-tional modifier (PMOD), prepositional comple-ment (PCOMP), modifier (MOD), etc.
Both ver-sions of the parser are being developed accord-ing to the same procedure and architecture.
Theoutputs are quite homogeneous in both languagessince the dependencies are identified and repre-sented in the same way, thus allowing the compar-ision of annotations induced from either French orEnglish.
Table 2 gives some examples of the basicrelations taken into account as well as the tags as-signed to the syntactically connected words.
Thethe languages of the ?pre-enlargement?
EU.55parts of speech are in upper case (N represents anoun, V a verb, etc.)
and the grammatical informa-tion (number, gender) is in lower case (sg reprentsthe singular, pl the plural, f the feminine and m themasculine).
(the) Regulation_Nsg SUBJ??
establishes_Vsg(le) r?glement_Nmsg SUBJ??
d?termine_Vsgcovering_PPR OBJ??
placing_PPR PMOD??
on_PREPPCOMP??
(the) market_Nsg(qui) r?gissent_Vpl OBJ??
(la) mise_Nfsg PMOD??
sur_PREPPCOMP??
(le) march?_Nmsgfurther_ADJ MOD??
calls_Nplappels_Nmpl MOD??
suppl?mentaires_ADJpl(the) Member_Nsg MOD??
States_Npl(les) ?tats_Nmpl MOD??
Membres_Nmpl(the debates) clearly_ADV MOD??
illustrate_Vpl(les d?bats) montrent_Vpl MOD??
clairement_ADV(placing on) the_DET DET??
market_Nsgla_DET DET??
mise (sur) le_DET DET??
march?_NmsgTable 2: Syntactic dependencies identified withSYNTEX4.2.3 Word alignmentThe English/Polish parts of the corpus on the onehand, and the French/Polish parts on the otherhand, have been aligned at the word level using theGIZA++ package9 (Och and Ney, 2003).
GIZA++consists of a set of statistical translation mod-els of different complexity, namely the IBM ones(Brown et al, 1993).
For both corpora, the tok-enization resulting from the post-processing stageprior to parsing was used in the alignment pro-cess for the English and Polish parts in order tokeep the same segmentation especially to facilitatemanual annotation for evaluation purposes.
More-over, each word being assigned a lemma at thePOS tagging stage, the sentences given as input toGIZA++ were lemmatized, as lemmatization hasproven to boost statistical word alignment perfor-mances.
On the Polish side, a rough tokeniza-tion using blanks and punctuation was realised; nolemmatization was performed.
The IBM-4 modelhas been trained on each bi-text in both trans-lation directions and the intersection of Viterbi9GIZA++ is available athttp://www.jfoch.com/GIZA++.html.alignments obtained has been used to project themorpho-syntactic annotations.
In other words, ourfirst goal was to test the extent to which the di-rect projection across English or French and Polishwas accurate.
Therefore, we relied only on one-to-one alignments, thus favouring precision to thedetriment of recall for this preliminary study.
Fig-ure 3 shows an example of word alignment output.The intersection in both directions is representedwith plain arrows; the dotted ones represent uni-directional alignments.
It shows that the intersec-tion results in an incomplete alignment which maydiffer depending on the pair of languages consid-ered and the segmentation performed in each lan-guage10.Les sanctions sont r?gl?es dans la convention de subventionSankcje sa uregulowane w porozumiewaniach o dotacjiSanctions are_regulated in grant agreementsFigure 3: Intersection of IMB-4 model Viterbialignments in both translation directions5 Evaluation5.1 MethodIn order to evaluate the annotation projection,an a posteriori reference was constructed, whichmeans that a sample of the output was selectedrandomly and annotated manually.
There are someadvantages to work with this kind of reference.First, it is less time-consuming than an a apri-ori reference built independently from the outputobtained.
Second, it allows to skip the cases forwhich it is difficult to decide whether they are cor-rect or not: syntactic analysis may be ambiguousand translation often makes it difficult to deter-mine which source unit corresponds to which tar-get one (Och and Ney, 2003).
A better level ofconfidence may thus be ensured with an a poste-riori reference in comparison with a human anno-tation task where a choice is to be made for eachcase.
Finally, whatever strategy is adopted, thereis always a part of subjectivity in human annota-tion.
Thus, the results may vary from one personto another.
The major drawback of an a posteriorireference is that it allows to assess only precision10The underscore indicates token conflation .56and not recall since it precisely only contains dataprovided as output of the algorihtm subjected toevaluation.5.2 ParametersThe sample used in order to constitute the a pos-teriori reference is made of 50 French/Polish sen-tences and 50 English/Polish sentences.
The samesentences in each language version were selected.Indeed, one of the goals of this study is to deter-mine if the choice of the source language has aninfluence on annotation projection results.
These50 sentences correspond to 800 evaluated tags and400 evaluated dependencies in the French/Polishbi-text, and 782 evaluated POS tags and 391 de-pendencies in the English/Polish bi-text.Several parameters have been taken into accountfor each type of annotation projection by answer-ing yes or no to the points listed below.For POS tags:1a.
the projected POS is the correct one;2a.
the gender and number of nouns, adjectivesand past participles are correct.The gender parameter has been evaluated only forthe projection from French to Polish as this infor-mation was not available in English.For dependencies:1b.
there is a dependency relation between twogiven Polish words regardless of its label;2b.
the label of the dependency is correct.Each time the answer to points 2a and 2b was no,the information about the correct annotation wasadded.6 Results6.1 PerformancesTable 3 presents the number of projected POS tagsand dependencies with respect to each source lan-guage.
It gives the precision for each parameter,POS tag (1a), number and gender (2a), unlabeleddependencies (1b) and labeled dependencies (2b)assessed against the a posteriori reference.It shows that the number of projected POS tags aswell as syntactic relations is slightly lower whenEnglish is used as source language.
A lower num-ber of identified alignment links or dependenciesmay explain this difference.
It also should beFr/Pl En/Plprojected POS tags 800 7821a POS tags .87 .882a number .88 .912a gender .59 ?projected dependencies 400 3911b unlabeled dependencies .83 .822b labeled dependencies .62 .67Table 3: Precision according to each evaluated pa-rameternoted that the evaluated projections are not nec-essarily the same in both corpora.
As mentionedin section 5.1, the same sentences were chosen forevaluation.
Nevertheless, since word alignmentdepends on the pair of languages involved, it hasan impact on the projections obtained and the aposteriori reference built on their basis.The precision rates vary according to the type ofinformations induced.
No significant difference isobserved whether the source language is Frenchor English.
The number subcategory achievesthe highest score: 0.88 and 0.91 respectively forFrench/Polish and English/Polish.
Dependenciesrank second?0.83 and 0.82?but an importantdecrease in accuracy?about 20%?is observedwhen their labels are taken into account.
Finally,for French, the gender category achieves the low-est score: 0.59.
The main reasons for which an-notation projection fails are investigated hereafter.The projection of the number and gender subcate-gories are not taken into account.6.2 Result analysisThere are various reasons for the failure of thePOS tags and dependencies?
projection: a) wordalignment, b) lexical density, c) tokenization, d)POS tagging/parsing errors and e) insertion (fordependencies).
In following examples, the wordalignments are bold faced and in order to avoidconfusion, the POS tags on the Polish side are theintended POS tags and not the induced POS tags.a) The noun countries is aligned to trzecich11which is actually an adjective.
On the otherhand, participation and udzia?
being aligned, theprojected dependency is also erroneous.Participation_N1of third countries_N2Udzia?_N1pan?stw trzecich_ADJ211The correct alignment is pan?stw.57b)Under is translated by the prepositionnal phrasena podstawie but is aligned only to podstawiewhich is a noun.
Thus, the projected tag cannot beassigned just to podstawie, which is also the casewith the PMOD dependency between zawarte andpodstawie.concluded_PPA1under_PREP2the generalframeworkzawarte_PPA1na podstawie_N2og?lnych ramc) This case is similar to the previous butthe difference in lexical density is partly causedby the conflation of in accordance with, whichcorresponds to the prepositionnal phrase zgodniez, at the post-processing stage of the POS tagging.They must be constitutedin_accordance_with_PREP1the law_N2Musza?
byc?
ustanowione zgodnie_ADV1zprawem_N2d) The following example shows an error inPCOMP attachement resulting in an error independency projection: with is linked to pursueinstead of activities and the same relation isassigned to o and zajmowac?.They must pursue_V1activities with_PREP2aEuropean dimensionMusza?
zajmowac?_V1sie?
dzia?alnos?cia?
o_PREP2europejskim wymiarzee) On the Polish side, the inserted nounpostanowien?
governs traktatu.
Thus, the PCOMPdependency does not link dla and traktatu but dlaand postanowien?.Without prejudice for_PREP1the Treaty_N2Bez uszczerbku dla_PREP1postanowien?Traktatu_N2Considering the precision figures, in partic-ular those accounting for the projection ofdependencies which decrease significantly whenlabels are considered, we tried to determine ifthere are indirect yet regular French/Polish andEnglish/Polish correspondences.
By indirectcorrespondence we mean that a given sourcePOS tag or dependency is usually rendered bya given Polish POS tag or dependency.
Thecorrespondences are calculated provided thereis no error prior to projection (word alignment,tagging or parsing).Table 4 shows the direct and indirect correspon-dences among the POS tags which occur in thereference set.
We can see that there is a directcorrespondence among POS tags in 92% and 93%of the cases respectively for French/Polish andEnglish/Polish projection.
Moreover, the indirectcorrespondences, for example noun/adjective orverb/noun, are similar for both source languages.The following examples show occurrences ofnoun/adjective and verb/noun correspondences.the exercice of implementing_N powersl?exercice des comp?tences d?ex?cution_Nwykonywania uprawnien?
wykonawczych_ADJmeasures planned to ensure_V dissemina-tionmesures pr?vues pour assurer_V la diffu-sion s?rodki zaplanowane dla zapewnienia_NrozpowszechnieniaSome indirect correspondences are more probablethan others that seem unexpected.
Most of thetime the latter come from the differences intokenization mentioned above.Fr POS Pl POS cN_359 N_349; ADJ_6; PPA_3; V_1 .97ADJ_74 ADJ_69; N_3; V_1; DET_1 .93V_68 V_55; N_13 .80PPA_67 PPA_59; V_6; ADJ_1; N_1 .88PREP_35 PREP_24; N_7; DET_2; V_1;PPR_1.68others_61 same_56 .91664 612 .92En POS Pl POS cN_374 N_364; ADJ_9; PPA_1 .97PREP_64 PREP_53; N_7; DET_4 .83V_51 V_35; PPA_10; N_6 .69ADJ_46 ADJ_42; N_2; V_1; DET_1 .91DET_36 DET_33; N_2 .91others_73 same_70 .95644 597 .93Table 4: French/Polish and English/Polish POStag correspondencesTable 5 summarizes direct and indirect correspon-dences among syntactic dependency relations.It can be seen that direct correspondence ratesfor dependencies are lower than direct corre-spondences for POS tags: 78% when the sourcelanguage is French source and 82% when it is58English.
Moreover, the difference according tothe source language?5% in favour of English?ismore important than for POS tags?1% in favourof English.
It is mainly due to the PMOD andPCOMP relations: the first connects a prepositionto its governor and the second connects thedependent to a preposition.
Since Polish is aninflected language, the connections betweenwords are indicated through cases.
In particular,it results in a noun not being necessarily linkedto another noun by a preposition.
This is alsothe case for English, as far as compounds areconcerned, while in French a preposition is almostalways required to form noun phrases.
This isone of the reasons why the direct correspondencerate between English and Polish is higher thanbetween French and Polish.
The followingexample shows a direct MOD/MOD correspon-dence for the English/Polish pair and an indirectPMOD_PCOMP/MOD correspondence for theFrench/Polish one.purity MOD??
criteria_N substances_N listedles crit?res_N PMOD_de_PCOMP??
puret?
dessubstances ?num?r?skryteria_N MOD??
czysztos?ci_N dla substancjiwymienionychFr DEP Pl DEP cPMOD_111 PMOD_56; MOD_51; OBJ_4 .50MOD_106 MOD_106 1PCOMP_35 PCOMP_25; MOD_7; OBJ_2;PMOD_1;.71OBJ_23 OBJ_16; MOD_5; PMOD_2 .69SUJ_19 SUJ_18; OBJ_1 .94others_38 same_38 1332 259 .78En DEP Pl DEP cMOD_95 MOD_90; PMOD_5 .94PMOD_93 PMOD_59; MOD_26; PCOMP_4;OBJ_3; SUBJ_1.63PCOMP_64 PCOMP_49; MOD_8; PMOD_7 .76DET_29 DET_29 1OBJ_23 OBJ_22; PMOD_1 .95others_18 same_18 1322 267 .83Table 5: French/Polish and English/Polish syntac-tic correspondences7 DiscussionThe results of the projection of POS tags and de-pendencies concur with those reported in the re-lated works presented in section 2.
First, concern-ing the number and gender subcategories, Borin(2002) has found that the former is applicableacross languages whereas the latter is less relevant,at least for the German/Swedish language pair.
Asseen in section 3, the projection of the numbersubcategory offers the highest score and the pro-jection of the gender the lowest?0.59.
It was tobe expected that gender would perform the worstconsidering its arbitrary nature at least in Frenchand Polish.
Indeed, there are three genders in Pol-ish, masculine, feminine and neutral, as well asin English, and two in French.
Thus, not only thenumber of genders across French and Polish is dif-ferent but they are not distributed in the same wayin both languages.
The information on gender wasnot available for English, gender being assignedaccording to the human/non-human feature.Considering POS tags, the level of direct corre-spondence is the highest one when compared tothe number and gender subcategories as well as todependencies.
The precision performed is how-ever lower with respect to the figures obtained byBorin (2002) on the one hand, and Yarowski etal.
?s (2001) on the other hand.
In Borin?s study,precision was assessed provided the word align-ments used to project POS tags were correct.
Inthis study, precision has been evaluated regardlessof possible errors prior to projection.
When theseerrors are discarded, the precision rates are simi-lar.
In Yarowski et al?s work (2001), the evalua-tion did not concern annotation projection but aninduced tagger trained on 500K occurrences of au-tomatically derived POS tag projections.
Indeed,the authors claim that direct annotation projectionis quite noisy.
This study shows that such a simpleapproach can perform fairly well as far as preci-sion is concerned.
The results are likely to be im-proved by implementing basic POS tag conversionrules as suggested in (Borin, 2002).For the projection of dependencies, defining suchconversion rules seems necessary as suggested bythe significant difference in precision when theprojection of unlabeled and labeled dependenciesare compared.
Polish does not proceed in thesame way to encode syntactic functions as com-pared to English or French.
Nevertheless, someof the syntactic divergences observed seem regu-59lar enough to be used to derive indirect correspon-dences.
Hwa et al (2002) have noticed that ap-plying elementary linguistic transformations con-siderably increases precision and recall when pro-jecting syntactic relations, at least for the En-glish/Chinese language pair.
The present studysuggests that this kind of approach is promisingfor the English/Polish and French/Polish pairs aswell.The exceptionnal status of the corpus certainly in-fluences the quality of the results.
Legislative textsof the EU in their different language versions arelegally binding.
Thus, they have to be as closeas possible semantically and this constraint mayfavour the direct correspondences observed.8 ConclusionWe have presented a simple yet promising methodbased on aligned corpora to induce linguistic an-notations in Polish texts.
POS tags and depen-dencies are directly projected to the Polish part ofthe corpus from the automatically annotated En-glish or French part.
As far as precision is con-cerned, the direct projection is fairly efficient forPOS tags but appears to be too restrictive for de-pendencies.
Nevetheless, the results are encour-aging since they are likely to be improved by ap-plying indirect correspondence rules.
They vali-date the idea of the existence of direct or indirectyet regular correspondences on the English/Polishand French/Polish language pairs which has al-ready been tested with some syntax-based align-ment techniques (Ozdowska, 2004; Ozdowska andClaveau, 2005).
The next step will consist in ex-ploiting the indirect correspondences and the mul-tiple sources of information provided by two dif-ferent source languages.
Moreover, using IBM-4word alignments in one direction instead of the in-tersection will be considered.This work mainly focusses on precision thus lack-ing information on recall.
Larger scale evalua-tions would be necessary to validate the approach,particularly evaluations that could measure recall,since the amount of evaluation data used is thisstudy could be considered too limited.ReferencesLars Borin.
2002.
Alignment and tagging.
In LarsBorin, editor, Parallel corpora, parallel worlds: se-lected papers from a symposium on parallel andcomparable corpora at Uppsala University, pages207?217.
Rodopi, Amsterdam/New York.Didier Bourigault, C?cile Fabre, C?cile Fr?rot, Marie-Paule Jacques, and Sylwia Ozdowska.
fothcoming.Acquisition et ?valuation sur corpus de propri?t?s desous-cat?gorisation syntaxique.
T.A.L (TraitementAutomatique des Langues).Peter F. Brown, Stephen.
A. Della Pietra, VincentJ.
Della Pietra, and Robert L. Mercer.
1993.The mathematics of statistical machine translation:parameter estimation.
Computational Linguistics,19(2):263?311.Toma?
Erjavec, Camelia Ignat, Bruno Pouliquen, andRalf Steinberger.
2005.
Massive multilingual cor-pus compilation: Acquis communautaire and TO-TALE.
In 2nd Language and Technology Confer-ence.C?cile Fabre and Didier Bourigault.
2001.
Linguisticclues for corpus-based acquisition of lexical depen-dencies.
In Corpus Linguisitc Conference.Rebecca Hwa, Philip Resnik, Amy Weinberg, andOkan Kolak.
2002.
Evaluating translational cor-respondence using annotation projection.
In 40thAnnual Conference of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.Geoffrey Leech.
1997.
Introducting corpus annotation.In Roger Garside, Geoffrey Leech, and AnthonyMcEnery, editors, Corpus Annotation.
Linguistic In-formation from Computer Text corpora, pages 1?18.Longman, London/New York.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A system-atic comparison of various statisical alignment mod-els.
Computational Linguistics, 1(29):19?51.Sylwia Ozdowska and Vincent Claveau.
2005.
Aligne-ment de mots par apprentissage de r?gles de prop-agation syntaxique en corpus de taille restreinte.In Conf?rence sur le Traitement Automatique desLangues Naturelles, pages 243?252.Sylwia Ozdowska.
2004.
Identifying correspondencesbetween words: an approach based on a bilingualsyntactic analysis of French/English parallel cor-pora.
In Multilingual Linguistic Resources Work-shop of COLING?04.Bruno Pouliquen and Ralf Steinberger.
2005.
The ac-quis communautaire corpus.
In JRC Enlargementand Integration Workshop.Helmut Schmidt.
1994.
Probabilistic part-of-speechtagging using decision trees.
In 1st InternationalConference on New Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing.David Yarowski, Grace Ngai, and Richard Wicen-towski.
2001.
Inducing multilingual text analysistools via robust projection across aligned corpora.In 1st Human Language Technology Conference.60
