Proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Tree Adjoining Grammar and Related Formalisms, pages 33?40,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Tree Adjoining Grammar Analysis of the Syntax and Semantics ofIt-CleftsChung-hye HanDepartment of LinguisticsSimon Fraser Universitychunghye@sfu.caNancy HedbergDepartment of LinguisticsSimon Fraser Universityhedberg@sfu.caAbstractIn this paper, we argue that in it-clefts asin It was Ohno who won, the cleft pronoun(it) and the cleft clause (who won) forma discontinuous syntactic constituent, anda semantic unit as a definite description,presenting arguments from Percus (1997)and Hedberg (2000).
We propose a syn-tax of it-clefts using Tree-Local Multi-Component Tree Adjoining Grammar anda compositional semantics on the pro-posed syntax using Synchronous Tree Ad-joining Grammar.1 IntroductionThe extant literature on the syntax of it-clefts, asin (1), can be classified into two main approaches.First, the cleft pronoun it is an expletive, and thecleft clause bears a direct syntactic or semanticrelation to the clefted constituent, such as oneof predication (Jesperson, 1937; Chomsky, 1977;Williams, 1980; Delin, 1989; Delahunty, 1982;Rochemont, 1986; Heggie, 1988; ?E.
Kiss, 1998).Second, the cleft clause bears a direct syntacticor semantic relation to the cleft pronoun and isspelled-out after the clefted constituent throughextraposition or by forming a discontinuous con-stituent with the cleft pronoun from the base-generated position at the end of the sentence (Jes-person, 1927; Akmajian, 1970; Emonds, 1976;Gundel, 1977; Wirth, 1978; Percus, 1997; Hed-berg, 2000).
Under this second approach, the cleftpronoun is not necessarily expletive but rather hasa semantic function such as that of a definite arti-cle.
(1) Itcleft pronoun +wascopula +OHNOclefted constituent +[whocleftwon].clauseIn this paper, we argue for a particular version ofthe second approach, in which the cleft pronounand the cleft clause form a discontinuous syntac-tic constituent, and a semantic unit as a definitedescription.
We propose a syntax of it-clefts us-ing Tree-Local Multi-Component Tree AdjoiningGrammar (MCTAG), and a compositional seman-tics on the proposed syntax using SynchronousTree Adjoining Grammar (STAG).
In section 2, wepresent arguments against the expletive approach,and in section 3, we provide arguments supportingthe discontinuous constituent analysis.
We presentour TAG analysis in section 4 and extend our pro-posal to grammatical variations on it-clefts in sec-tion 5.2 Arguments against the expletiveapproachIt has been shown in Hedberg (2000) that the cleftpronoun can be replaced with this or that, as in(2), depending on the discourse contextual inter-pretation of the cleft clause.
The fact that thechoice of the cleft pronoun is subject to pragmaticconstraints indicates that the cleft pronoun cannotsimply be an expletive element devoid of any se-mantic content.
(2) a.
This is not Iowa we?re talking about.
(Hedberg 2000, ex.
17)b.
That?s the French flag you see flyingover there.
(Hedberg 2000, ex.
20)Although the details are different, many exple-tive analyses advocate for the position that theclefted constituent is syntactically associated withthe gap in the cleft clause either directly throughmovement, or indirectly through co-indexationwith an operator in the cleft clause.
One thing thatis common in all these analyses is that the cleftclause is not considered to have the internal struc-ture of a restrictive relative clause.
We point out33that the initial element in the cleft clause may berealized either as a wh-word (1) or as that (3a), orit may be absent altogether when the gap is not inthe subject position (2, 3b).
It may even be in theform of a genitive wh-word as in (3c).
The cleftclause is thus a restrictive relative clause.
(3) a.
It was Ohno that won.b.
It was Ohno Ahn beat.c.
It was Ohno whose Dad cheered.The cleft clause, however, does not relate to theclefted constituent in the way that a restrictive rel-ative clause relates to its head noun, as first notedin Jespersen (1927).
This is because the cleftedconstituent can be a proper noun, unlike a headnoun modified by a restrictive relative clause, asillustrated in (4).
This suggests that there is nosyntactic link between the clefted constituent andthe gap in the cleft clause.
(4) * Ohno that won is an American.3 A discontinuous constituent analysisAs pointed out in Percus (1997) and Hedberg(2000), it-clefts have existential and exhaustivepresuppositions, just as definite descriptions do.The inference in (5c) associated with (5a) survivesin the negative counterpart in (5b).
This is ex-actly the way the presupposition associated withthe definite description the king of France behaves:the presupposition spelled-out in (6c) survives inboth the affirmative (6a) and the negative counter-part in (6b).
Both authors argue that this paral-lelism between definite descriptions and it-cleftscan be accounted for if the cleft pronoun and thecleft clause form a semantic unit, with it playingthe role of the definite article and the cleft clausethe descriptive component.
What this translatesto syntactically is that the cleft clause is a restric-tive relative clause which is situated at the end ofthe sentence, forming a discontinuous constituentwith the cleft pronoun.
(5) a.
It was Ohno who won.b.
It was not Ohno who won.c.
Someone won, and only one personwon.
(6) a.
The king of France is bald.b.
The king of France is not bald.c.
There is one and only one king ofFrance.Percus (1997) further points out that it-cleftspattern with copular sentences containing definitedescription subjects with regard to anaphor bind-ing.
In the absence of c-command, an anaphor inthe clefted constituent position can be bound byan antecedent inside the cleft clause, as shown in(7a).
While we don?t yet have an explanation forhow this type of binding takes place, we followPercus in noting that since copular sentences withdefinite description subjects also exhibit this pat-tern of binding, as shown in (7b), a uniform expla-nation for the two cases can be sought if the cleftpronoun and the cleft clause together form a defi-nite description.
(7) a.
It was herself that Mary saw first.b.
The one that Mary saw first was herself.Under the discontinuous constituent analysis, it-clefts reduce to copular sentences, and thereforethe observation that they can have equative andpredicational interpretations (Ball 1978, DeClerck1988, Hedberg 2000), the readings attested in cop-ular sentences, follows.
For instance, (5a) (re-peated as (8a)) can be paraphrased as (8b), andcorresponds to a typical equative sentence.
And(9a) can be paraphrased as (9b), and correspondsto a typical predicational sentence.
According toour analysis, (8a) will be assigned the semanticrepresentation in (8c), and (9a) will be assignedthe semantic representation in (9c).
(8) a.
It was Ohno who won.b.
The one who won was Ohno.c.
THEz [won(z)] [z = Ohno?
](9) a.
It was a kid who beat John.b.
The one who beat John was a kid.c.
THEz [beat(z, John?)]
[kid(z)]4 Our TAG analysisInspired by work of Kroch and Joshi (1987) andAbeille?
(1994) on discontinuous constituents re-sulting from extraposition, we propose a tree-localMCTAG analysis for the syntax of it-clefts.
Cru-cially, we propose that the elementary trees forcleft pronoun and the cleft clause form a multi-component set, as in {(?it), (?who won)} in Fig-ure 1 and {(?it), (?who beat)} in Figure 4.34?
(?Ohno) DPDOhno(?
?Ohno) TOhno???
(?was) TPDP0i?
1 T?TwaskCopPCoptkFP 1DP0tiF?FDP1?
2(?
?was) F 1R?x?y.x = yT?
1 T?
2??
{ (?it) DPDit(?who won) FPFP* CPDPlDwhoC?C TPDPtlT?T[past]VPDPtlVwon}{ (?
?it) Tz(?
?who won) FTHEz FR?x.won(x)TzF*}?Figure 1: Syntactic and semantic elementary trees for It was Ohno who won?
(?8a) (?was)(?Ohno)DP1(?it)DP0(?who won)FP(?
?8a) (??was)(?
?Ohno) (?
?it) (?
?who won)?Figure 2: Syntactic and semantic derivation treesfor It was Ohno who wonFor the derivation of equative it-clefts as in (8a),we adopt the copular tree in (?was), a tree simi-lar to the one proposed in Frank (2002) for copu-lar sentences.
In this tree, FP is a small clause ofthe copula from which the two DPs being equatedoriginate.
(8a) is derived by substituting (?it) intoDP0 in (?was), adjoining (?who won) into FPin (?was), and substituting (?Ohno) into DP1 in(?was).
The syntactic derivation tree and the de-rived tree for (8a) are given in (?8a) in Figure 2and (?8a) in Figure 3 respectively.Postulating separate projections for the copulaand the small clause can account for the fact thatthe clefted constituent and the cleft clause seemto form a constituent, as in (10ab) (from Hedberg2000), and yet they can be separated by an adver-bial phrase, as in (10c).
In our analysis, (10ab)are possible because the bracketed parts are FPs.
(10c) is possible because an adverbial phrase canadjoin onto FP or F?, separating the clefted con-stituent and the cleft clause.
(10) a. I said it should have been [Bill who ne-gotiated the new contract], and it shouldhave been.b.
It must have been [Fred that kissedMary] but [Bill that left with her].c.
It was Kim, in my opinion, who wonthe race.We propose to do compositional semantics us-ing STAG as defined in Shieber (1994).
In STAG,each syntactic elementary tree is paired with oneor more semantic tree with links between match-ing nodes.
A synchronous derivation proceeds bymapping a derivation tree from the syntax sideto an isomorphic derivation tree in the semanticsside, and is synchronized by the links specified inthe elementary tree pairs.
In the tree pairs givenin Figure 1, the trees on the left side are syntacticelementary trees and the ones on the right side aresemantic trees.
In the semantic trees, F stands forformulas, R for predicates and T for terms.
(?
?it)and (?
?who won) in the multi-component set inFigure 1 together define semantics of quantifica-tion, where the former contributes the argumentvariable and the latter the restriction and scope,and (?
?was) represents the semantics of equativesentences.
The derivation tree for the semantics of(8a) is given in (?
?8a) in Figure 2, and the seman-35?
(?8a) TPDPiDitT?TwaskCopPCoptkFPFPDPtiF?FDPDOhnoCPDPlDwhoC?C TPDPtlT?T[past]VPDPtlVwon(?
?8a) FTHEz FR?x.won(x)TzFR?x?y.x = yTzTOhno?
?Figure 3: Syntactic and semantic derived trees for It was Ohno who wontic derived tree is given in (?
?8a) in Figure 3.
Notethat the semantic derivation tree in (?
?8a) is iso-morphic to the syntactic one in (?8a).
The seman-tic derived tree in (?
?8a) can be reduced to the for-mula in (11) after the application of ?-conversion.
(11) THEz [won(z)] [z = Ohno?
]For the derivation of predicational it-clefts asin (9a), we use the tree pairs in <(?was kid),(?
?was kid)>, <(?John), (?
?John)>, and<{(?it), (?who beat)}, {(?
?it), (?
?who beat)}>in Figure 4.
The elementary tree in (?was kid)which represents a predicational copular sentenceis similar to the one in (?was) in that in bothtrees, the copula combines with a small clause FP.The important difference is that in (?was kid) thesubject DP is an argument substitution site and thepredicative DP (a kid) is lexicalized, whereas in(?was) both the subject and the non-subject DPsare argument substitution sites.
This difference isreflected in the semantic trees, as seen in (?
?was)in Figure 1 with two term nodes and (?
?was kid)in Figure 4 with one term node.
The syntactic andsemantic derivation trees, which are isomorphic,are given in <(?9a), (?
?9a)> in Figure 5, and thecorresponding derived trees are given in <(?9a),(?
?9a)> in Figure 6.
The semantic derived tree in(?
?9a) can be reduced to the formula in (12) afterthe application of ?-conversion.
(12) THEz [beat(z, John?)]
[kid(z)]?
(?9a) (?was kid)(?it)DP0(?who beat)FP(?John)DP(?
?9a) (?
?was kid)(?
?it) (?
?who beat)(?
?John)?Figure 5: Syntactic and semantic derivation treesfor It was a kid who beat John5 ExtensionsIn this section, we extend the proposed syntacticanalysis to grammatical variations on it-clefts: wh-extraction of the clefted constituent as in (13), un-bounded dependency between the relative pronounand its gap in the cleft clause as in (14), and coor-dination of the constituent containing the cleftedconstituent and the cleft clause as in (15).
(13) Whoj was it tj who won?
(14) It was Ohno whol the judges said tl won.
(15) It was [Ohno who won] and [Kim who lost].For the derivation of (13), the elementary treesin Figure 7 are required in addition to {(?it),(?who won)} in Figure 1.
(?who was) representsthe structure with the wh-extraction of the cleftedconstituent.
Substituting (?who) into DP1 and(?it) into DP0, and adjoining (?who won) onto FPin (?who was), as in the derivation tree in (?13),produces the derived tree in (?13) in Figure 8.For the derivation of (14), the elementary treesin Figure 9 are required in addition to {(?it),36?
(?was kid) TPDP0i?
1 T?TwaskCopPCoptkFP 1DP0tiF?FDPDaNPNkid(?
?was kid) F 1R?x.kid(x)T?
1??
(?John) DPDJohn(?
?John) TJohn???
{(?it) DPDit(?who beat) FPFP* CPDPlDwhoC?C TPDPtlT?T[past]VPDPtlV?VbeatDP?
}{ (?
?it) Tz(?
?who beat) FTHEz FRR?x?y.beat(y, x)T?TzF*}?Figure 4: Syntactic and semantic elementary trees for It was a kid who beat John?
(?9a) TPDPiDitT?TwaskCopPCoptkFPFPDPtiF?FDPDaNPNkidCPDPlDwhoC?C TPDPtlT?T[past]VPDPtlV?VbeatDPDJohn(?
?9a) FTHEz FRR?x?y.beat(y, x)TJohn?TzFR?x.kid(x)Tz?Figure 6: Syntactic and semantic derived trees for It was a kid who beat John37(?who) DPDwho(?who was) CPDP1j?
C?CwaskTPDP0i?
T?TtkCopPCoptkFPDP0tiF?FDP1tjFigure 7: Syntactic elementary trees for Who wasit who won?
(?13) (?who was)(?who)DP1(?it)DP0(?who won)FP(?13) CPDPjDwhoC?CwaskTPDPiDitT?TtkCopPCoptkFPFPDPtiF?FDPtjCPDPlDwhoC?C TPDPtlT?T[past]VPDPtlVwonFigure 8: Derivation and derived trees for Whowas it who won?
(?the judges) DPDtheNPNjudges(?said) C?C TPDPm?
T?T[past]VPDPtmV?VsaidC?Figure 9: Syntactic elementary trees for It wasOhno who the judges said won(?who won)} in Figure 1.
Adjoining (?said)onto the C?
node in (?who won) has the effectof stretching the dependency between the relativepronoun who and its gap in the cleft clause.
Thederivation and the derived trees for (14) are givenin Figure 10.To handle the coordination of the constituentcontaining the clefted constituent and the cleftclause, as illustrated in (15), we propose to useNode Contraction and Conjoin proposed in Sarkarand Joshi (1996).
Informally, Node Contractiontakes two nodes of like categories and collapsesthem into a single node, and Conjoin coordinatesthe least nodes dominating the two contiguousstrings.
We use the conjunction tree in Figure 11to apply Conjoin at FP.Figure 12 contains the elementary tree anchor-ing equative was.
We mark the nodes to be con-tracted with a box, and augment the name of theelementary tree with a set listing these contrac-tion nodes.
Thus, (?was){DP i,T,Cop} means thatDPi, T and Cop nodes are marked for contractionin (?was) elementary tree.Composition of (?was){DP i,T,Cop} tree inFigure 12 and another (?was){DP i,T,Cop} treewith the conjunction tree in Figure 11, alongwith the substitution and adjoining of (?Ohno)and an equivalent tree (?Kim) anchoring Kim,(?who won) and an equivalent tree (?who lost)anchoring lost, and (?it) in appropriate places,yields the derived structure in Figure 13, where thecontracted nodes get identified.
In this structure,the DP hosting it is dominated by two TP nodes,T is dominated by two T?
nodes and Cop is domi-nated by two CopP nodes.
Thus, the derived struc-ture produced by Conjoin and Node Contraction isa directed graph, not a tree.38(?15)iTPFP             CPDP             F?F             DPDTPCop            FPFP             CPDP             F?F             DPwho wonDDitT          CopPT?CopPFPwho lostKimFPConjandDP             T?twastOhno?
?iikktFigure 13: Derived structure for It was Ohno who won and Kim who lost(?14) (?was)(?Ohno)DP1(?it)DP0(?who won)FP(?said)C?
(?the judges)DP(?14) TPDPiDitT?TwaskCopPCoptkFPFPDPtiF?FDPDOhnoCPDPlDwhoC?C TPDPmDtheNPNjudgesT?T[past]VPDPtmV?VsaidC?C TPDPtlT?T[past]VPDPtlVwonFigure 10: Derivation and derived trees for It wasOhno who the judges said wonConj(and) FPFP ConjandFPFigure 11: Elementary tree for conjunction(?was){DP i,T,Cop} TPDP0i ?
T?TwaskCopPCoptkFPDPtiF?FDP1?Figure 12: Elementary tree anchoring equativewas with contraction nodes(?15)it)Conj(and)FP FPFP FPDP1 DP0 DP0 DP1{DP0,T,Cop} (?
was)(?Ohno)(?
was) {DP0,T,Cop}who?won)(?
(?who?lost) (?Kim)(?Figure 14: Derivation structure for It was Ohnowho won and Kim who lostThe derivation structure for (15) is also a di-rected graph, as shown in Figure 14.
(?it)is dominated by two (?was){DP i,T,Cop} trees,indicating that it is being shared by the two(?was){DP i,T,Cop} trees.6 ConclusionWe have proposed a syntax and semantics of it-clefts, using tree-local MCTAG and STAG, andshown that the proposed syntactic analysis is ex-39tendable to handle various grammatical variationson it-clefts such as wh-extraction of the cleftedconstituent, unbounded dependency between therelative pronoun and its gap in the cleft clauseand coordination of the constituent containing theclefted constituent and the cleft clause.
In ourTAG analysis of it-clefts, the cleft pronoun andthe cleft clause bear a direct syntactic relation be-cause the elementary trees for the two parts belongto a single multi-component set.
They do not ac-tually form a syntactic constituent in the derivedtree, but as the elementary trees for the two belongto the same multi-component set, the intuition thatthey form a discontinuous constituent is captured.Further, the semantics of the two trees is definedas a definite quantified phrase, capturing the intu-ition that they form a semantic unit as a definitedescription.AcknowledgmentWe thank Anoop Sarkar and the three anonymousreviewers for their insightful comments.ReferencesAnn Abeille?.
1994.
Syntax or semantics?
han-dling nonlocal dependencies with MCTAGs or Syn-chronous tags.
Computational Intelligence, 10:471?485.Adrian Akmajian.
1970.
On deriving cleft sentencesfrom pseudo-cleft sentences.
Linguistic Inquiry,1:149?168.Noam Chomsky.
1977.
On wh-movement.
In P. W.Culicover, T. Wasow, and A. Akmajian, editors, For-mal Syntax, pages 71?132.
Academic Press, NewYork.Gerald P. Delahunty.
1982.
Topics in the syntax andsemantics of English cleft sentences.
Indiana Uni-versity Linguistics Club, Bloomington.Judy L. Delin.
1989.
Cleft constructions in discourse.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Edinburgh.Katalin ?E.
Kiss.
1998.
Identificatinoal focus versusinformation focus.
Language, 74(245-273).Joseph E. Emonds.
1976.
A Transformational Ap-proach to English Syntax.
Academic Press, NewYork.Robert Frank.
2002.
Phrase Structure Composi-tion and Syntactic Dependencies.
MIT Press, Cam-bridge, MA.Jeanette K. Gundel.
1977.
Where do cleft sentencescome from?
Language, 53:53?59.Nancy Hedberg.
2000.
The referential status of clefts.Language, 76(4):891?920.Lorie A. Heggie.
1988.
The syntax of copular struc-tures.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Southern Califor-nia, Los Angeles.Otto Jesperson.
1927.
A Modern English Grammar,volume 3.
Allen and Unwin, London.Otto Jesperson.
1937.
Analytic Syntax.
Allen and Un-win, London.Anthony S. Kroch and Aravind K. Joshi.
1987.
Ana-lyzing extraposition in a Tree Adjoining Grammar.In G. Huck and A. Ojeda, editors, DiscontinuousConstituents, volume 20 of Syntax and Semantics.Academic Press.Orin Percus.
1997.
Prying open the cleft.
InK.
Kusumoto, editor, Proceedings of the 27th An-nual Meeting of the North East Linguistics Society,pages 337?351.
GLSA.Michael Rochemont.
1986.
Focus in GenerativeGrammar.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Anoop Sarkar and Aravind Joshi.
1996.
Coordinationin tree adjoining grammars: formalization and im-plementation.
In Proceedings of COLING?96, pages610?615, Copenhagen.Stuart Shieber.
1994.
Restricting the weak-generativecapacity of synchronous tree-adjoining grammars.Computational Intelligence, 10(4).Edwin Williams.
1980.
Predication.
Linguistic In-quiry, 11:203?238.Jessica R. Wirth.
1978.
The derivation of cleft sen-tences in English.
Glossa, 12(58-81).40
