Modeling Monolingual and Bilingual Collocation Dictionaries inDescription LogicsDennis Spohr and Ulrich HeidInstitute for Natural Language ProcessingUniversity of StuttgartAzenbergstr.
12, D-70174 Stuttgart, Germany{spohrds,heid}@ims.uni-stuttgart.deAbstractThis paper discusses an approach to mod-eling monolingual and bilingual dictio-naries in the description logic species ofthe OWL Web Ontology Language (OWLDL).
The central idea is that the modelof a bilingual dictionary is a combinationof the models of two monolingual dictio-naries, in addition to an abstract transla-tion model.
The paper addresses the ad-vantages of using OWL DL for the designof monolingual and bilingual dictionariesand proposes a generalized architecture forthat purpose.
Moreover, mechanisms forquerying and checking the consistency ofsuch models are presented, and it is con-cluded that DL provides means which arecapable of adequately meeting the require-ments on the design of multilingual dictio-naries.1 IntroductionWe discuss the modeling of linguistic knowledgeabout collocations, for monolingual and bilingualelectronic dictionaries, for multiple uses in NLPand for humans.Our notion of collocation is a lexicographicone, inspired by (Bartsch, 2004); we start fromher working definition: ?collocations are lexicallyand/or pragmatically constrained recurrent cooc-currences of at least two lexical items which arein a direct relation with each other.?
The fact ofbeing lexically and/or pragmatically constrainedleads to translation problems, as such constraintsare language specific.
With Hausmann (2004), weassume that collocations have a base and a col-locate, where the base is autosemantic and thustranslatable without reference to the collocation,whereas the collocate is synsemantic, i.e.
its read-ing is selected within a given collocation.
Ex-amples of collocations according to this defini-tion include adjective+noun-combinations (heavysmoker, strong tea, etc.
), verb+subject- (questionarises, question comes up) and verb+complement-groups (give+talk, take+walk) etc.
The definitionexcludes however named entities (Rio de Janeiro)and frequent compositional groups (e.g.
the policesaid...).
Our data have been semi-automaticallyextracted from 200 million words of Germannewspaper text of the 1990s (cf.
Ritz (2005)).We claim that a detailed monolingual descrip-tion of the linguistic properties of collocations pro-vides a solid basis for bilingual collocation dictio-naries.
The types of linguistic information neededfor NLP and those required for human use, e.g.
intext production or translation into a foreign lan-guage, overlap to a large extent.
Thus it is rea-sonable to define comprehensive monolingual datamodels and to relate these with a view to transla-tion.In section 2, we briefly list the most impor-tant phenomena to be captured (see also Heid andGouws (2006)); section 3 introduces OWL DL,motivates its choice as a representation format anddescribes our monolingual modeling.
In section 4,we discuss and illustrate the bilingual dictionaryarchitecture.2 Collocation DataProperties of collocations.
A mere list of wordpairs or sequences (give a talk, lose one?s patience)is not a collocation dictionary.
For use in NLP, lin-guistic properties of the collocations and of theircomponents must be provided: these include thecategory of the components (giveV + talkN ), the65distribution of base (talk) and collocate (give), aswell as morphosyntactic preferences, e.g.
with re-spect to the number of an element (e.g.
have highhopes), the use of a determiner (lose one?sposs|{}patience, cf.
Evert et al (2004)).For collocations to be identifiable in the contextof a sentence (e.g.
to avoid attachment ambiguityin parsing) and, conversely, in generation, to becorrectly inserted into a sentence, the syntagmaticbehavior of collocations must be described.
Thisincludes their function within a sentence (e.g inthe case of adverbial NPs) and the subcategoriza-tion of their components, e.g.
with support verbconstructions (make the proposal to + INF).
Assubcategorization is not fully predictable fromthe subcategorization of the noun (how to explainthe preposition choice in Unterstu?tzung findenbei jmdm, ?find support in so.
?, be supported?
),we prefer to encode the respective data in themonolingual dictionary.
To support translationmapping at the complement level, the representa-tion of each complement contains its grammaticalcategory (NP, AP, etc.
), its grammatical func-tion (subject, object, etc.)
and a semantic roleinspired by FrameNet1.
This allows us to caterfor divergence cases: jmdSubj/SPEAKER bringtjmdmInd.Obj/ADDRESSEE etw.Obj/TOPIC inErinnerung vs. someoneSubj/SPEAKER remindssomeoneObj/ADDRESSEE of sth.Prep.Obj/TOPIC .Relations involving collocations.
For languagegeneration, paraphrasing or for summarization,paradigmatic relations of collocations must alsobe modeled.
These include synonymy, antonymyand taxonomic relations, but also morphologicalones (word formation) and combinations of col-locations.
Synonymy and antonymy should re-late collocations with other collocations, but alsowith single words and with idioms: all three typesshould have the same status.
Next to strict syn-onymy, there may be ?quasi-synonymy?.Transparent noun compounds tend to share col-locates with their heads (Pause einlegen, Rauch-pause einlegen, Kaffeepause einlegen): if the re-lation between compound and head (Kaffeepause?
Pause) and between the respective collocationsis made explicit, this knowledge can be exploitedin translation, when a compositional equivalentis chosen (have a (smoking/coffee) break).
Para-phrasing and its applications also profit from anexplicit representation of morphological relations1Cf.
http://framenet.icsi.berkeley.edu/between collocates: submit + proposal, submis-sion of + proposal and submitter of + proposal allrefer to the same collocational pattern.A formal model for a collocation dictionary,monolingual and/or bilingual, has to keep trackof the above mentioned properties and relations ofcollocations; both should be queriable, alone andin arbitrary combinations.Other collocation dictionaries and dictionaryarchitectures.
Most of the above mentionedproperties and relations have been discussed in thedescriptive literature, but to our knowledge, theyhave never been modeled all in an electronic dic-tionary.
The Danish STO dictionary (Braasch andOlsen, 2000) and Krenn?s (2000) database of Ger-man support verb+PP-constructions both empha-size morphosyntactic preferences, but do not in-clude relations.
The electronic learners?
dictionar-ies DAFLES and DICE2 focus on semantic expla-nations of collocations, but do not contain detailsabout most of the properties and relations men-tioned above.
The implementation of Mel?c?uk?sMeaning?Text-Theory in the DiCo/LAF model3comes closest to our requirements, insofar as itis highly relational and includes some though notall of the morphological relations we describedabove.The Papillon project (Se?rasset and Mangeot-Lerebours, 2001) proposes a general architecturefor the interlingual linking of monolingual dictio-naries; as it is inspired by the DiCo formalizar-ion, it foresees links between readings, e.g.
to ac-count for morphological relations.
This mecha-nism could in principle be extended to syntag-matic phenomena; we are, however, not aware ofa Papillon-based collocation dictionary.3 Modeling in OWL DLIn this section, we present the main features ofOWL DL and their relevance to the modeling oflexical data.
Section 3.2 addresses the design ofa monolingual collocation dictionary using OWLDL (Spohr, 2005).3.1 Main Features of OWLOWL DL is the description logic sublanguageof the OWL Web Ontology Language (Bech-2Cf.
http://www.kuleuven.ac.be/dafles/and DICE: http://www.dicesp.com/3Cf.
http://olst.ling.umontreal.ca/dicouebe/66hofer et al, 2004), combining the expressivity ofOWL with the computational completeness anddecidability of Description Logics (Baader et al,2003)4.
Properties of OWL DL relevant for lexicalmodeling are listed and discussed in the following.Classes.
An OWL DL data model consists ofa subsumption hierarchy of classes, i.e.
a classX subsumes all its subclasses X1 to Xn.
Whileclasses represent concepts, their instances (calledOWL individuals) represent concrete manifesta-tions in the model.
Classes and their instances canbe constrained by stating assertions in the modeldefinition, e.g.
a class can be defined as beingdisjoint with other classes, which means that in-stances of a certain class cannot at the same timebe instances of the disjoints of this particular class.Properties.
Classes are described by properties.These can be used either to specify XML SchemaDatatypes (datatype properties) or to relate in-stances of one class to instances of (probably)other classes (object properties).
These classes arethen defined as the domain and range of a property,i.e.
a particular property may only relate instancesof classes in its domain to instances of classes inits range.
In addition to this, a property may beassigned several distinct formal attributes, such assymmetric, transitive or functional, and can be de-fined as the inverse of another property.
Similarto classes, properties can be structured hierarchi-cally as well, which, among others, facilitates theuse of underspecified information in queries (seesection 3.2).Inferences.
The possibility to infer explicitknowledge from implicit statements is a core fea-ture of OWL DL and can be performed by usingDL reasoners (such as FaCT5, Pellet6 or Racer-Pro7).
The most basic inference is achieved viathe subsumption relation among classes or prop-erties in the respective hierarchy (see above), butalso more sophisticated inferences are possible.Among others, these may involve the formal at-tributes of properties just mentioned.
For example,4As the emphasis in our work is on morphology, syntaxand lexical combinatorics, we profit from the formal prop-erties of DL without feeling the need for non-monotonicityas implemented, for example, in DATR (Evans and Gazdar,1996).5http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/?horrocks/FaCT/6http://www.mindswap.org/2003/pellet/7http://www.racer-systems.comstating that instance A is linked to B via a sym-metric property P leads a reasoner to infer that Bis also linked to A via P. In conjunction with tran-sitivity, a relatively small set of explicit statementsmay suffice to interrelate several instances implic-itly (i.e.
all instances in a particular equivalenceclass created by P).Consistency.
In addition to inferences, DL rea-soners can further be used to check the consistencyof an OWL DL model.
One of the primary ob-jectives is to check whether the assertions madeabout classes and their instances (see above) arelogically consistent or whether there are contradic-tions.
This consistency checking is based on theopen-world assumption, which states that ?whatcannot be proven to be true is not believed to befalse?
(Haarslev and Mo?ller, 2005).
Since lexi-cal data occasionally demand a closed world, otherchecking formalisms are required, which are men-tioned in section 3.2 below.3.2 Monolingual Collocation DictionaryA data model for a monolingual collocation dic-tionary based on OWL DL has been presentedin (Spohr, 2005).
It was designed using theProte?ge?
OWL Plugin (Knublauch et al, 2004) andmakes use of the advantages of OWL DL men-tioned above.Lexical vs. descriptive entities.
On the classlevel, the model distinguishes between lexical en-tities (e.g.
single-word and multi-word entities,such as collocations or idioms) and descriptive en-tities (e.g.
gender, part-of-speech, or subcategori-sation frames), with lexical entities being linkedto descriptive entities via properties.
More than 40of these descriptive properties have been modeled.In order to reflect the distinction between metalan-guage vocabulary and object language vocabulary,the two types of entities can be separated such thatthey are part of different models.
In other words,the classes and instances of descriptive entitiesconstitute a model of descriptions, which is im-ported by a lexicon model containing classes andinstances of lexical entities (see also section 4.1below).Lexical relations.
In addition to descrip-tive properties, the data model also containsa number of lexical relations linking lexicalentities, such as morphological or semanticrelations.
These relations have been structured67hierarchically and contain several subproperties,such as hasCompound or isSynonymOf,which use the formal attributes mentioned insection 3.1.
For instance, isSynonymOfhas been defined as a symmetric and transi-tive property (as opposed to the non-transitiveisQuasiSynonymOf; see section 2), whilehasCompound has been defined as the inverse ofa property isCompoundOf.
A small sample ofdescriptive and lexical relations of the collocationKritik u?ben is illustrated in Figure 1 below.Property ValuehasLemma ?Kritik u?ben?hasCompound Selbstkritik uebenisSynonymOf kritisieren VV 1hasCollocationType V-Nobj acchasComplementation SubcatFrame 12hasExampleSentence Example 84isInCorpus HGC-STZFigure 1: Sample of the properties of Kritik u?benSemantic relations link lexical entities onthe conceptual (i.e.
word sense) level.
There-fore, the synonym of Kritik u?ben is not somegeneral single-word entity kritisieren VV,but a particular word sense of kritisieren,kritisieren VV 1 in this case (seeSpohr (2005) for more detail).Queries.
The data model can be queried veryefficiently using the Sesame framework (Broek-stra et al, 2002; Broekstra, 2005) and its associ-ated query language SeRQL.
An example queryretrieving all collocations and their types is givenbelow, along with a sample of the results8.SELECT *FROM {A} rdf:type {lex:Collocation},{A} lex:hasCollocationType {B}A Bin_Frage_kommen V-PPpobjKritik_ueben V-Nobj_accLob_aussprechen V-Nobj_acczu_Last_legen V-PPpobjFigure 2: Query for retrieving collocations andtheir types, along with resultsDue to the fact that the relations in the data8In these examples, lex: is the namespace prefix for re-sources defined in the data model.model have been structured hierarchically, it ispossible to state underspecified queries.
Figure 3illustrates an underspecified query for semanti-cally related entities, regardless of the precise na-ture of this relation.
Hence, the first two rowsin the result table below contain synonym pairs,while the last two rows contain antonym pairs.SELECT *FROM {A} lex:hasSemanticRelationTo {B}A BKritik_ueben kritisieren_VV_1kritisieren_VV_1 Kritik_uebenKritik_ueben Lob_aussprechenLob_aussprechen Kritik_uebenFigure 3: Underspecified query for semanticallyrelated entities, along with resultsAs is indicated in Figure 3, the results appeartwice, i.e.
they contain every combination of thoseentities between which the relation holds.
This isdue to the fact that the respective semantic rela-tions have been defined as symmetric properties(see above).Consistency and data integrity.
Section 3.1mentioned the distinction between the open-worldassumption and the closed-world assumption.While the consistency checking performed by DLreasoners is generally based on an open world, itis vital especially for lexical data to simulate aclosed world in order to check data integrity.
Con-sider, for instance, the assertion that every collo-cation has to have a base and a collocate.
Due tothe open-world assumption, a DL reasoner wouldnever render a collocation violating this constraintinconsistent, simply because it cannot prove thatthis collocation has either no base or no collo-cate.
In order for this to happen, the simulationof a closed world is needed.
In our approach, thisis achieved by stating consistency constraints inSeRQL.
Figure 4 below illustrates a constraint forthe purpose just mentioned.This query retrieves all collocations and sub-tracts those who have a path to both a base anda collocate.
The result set then contains exactlythose instances which have either no base or nocollocate.68SELECT CollFROM {Coll} rdf:type {lex:Collocation}MINUSSELECT CollFROM {Coll} lex:hasBase {};lex:hasCollocate {}Figure 4: Constraint checking: does every collo-cation have a base and a collocate?4 Bilingual Model ArchitectureBased on the definition of a monolingual colloca-tion dictionary described above, the architecture ofa bilingual dictionary model can be designed suchthat it is made up of several components (i.e.
OWLmodels).
These are introduced in the following.4.1 Components of a Bilingual DictionaryThe components of a bilingual dictionary are illus-trated in Figure 5.Translation modelBilingual dictionary modelcreatedFromMonolingual dictionary modelModel of descriptionsLexicon modelimportscreatedFromcreatedFromimports importsMonolingual dictionary modelFigure 5: Architecture of a bilingual dictionarymodelModel of descriptions.
The most basic com-ponent of a bilingual dictionary model is amodel of descriptions, which contains language-independent classes and instances of descriptiveentities, as well as the relations among them (seesection 3.2).Lexicon model.
The model of descriptions isimported by an abstract lexicon model via theowl:imports statement (see (Bechhofer et al,2004)).
The effect of using the import statementis that the lexicon model can access the classes,instances and properties defined in the descriptionmodel without being able to alter the data therein.In addition to the thus available classes, the lexi-con model further provides classes of lexical enti-ties and relations among them, as well as relationslinking lexical and descriptive entities.Monolingual dictionary model.
The lexiconmodel serves as input for the creation of a mono-lingual dictionary model, i.e.
the lexicon model isnot imported by the dictionary model, rather thedictionary model is an instantiation of it.
There arepractical reasons for doing so, the most importantone being that the class of lexical entities (definedin the lexicon model) and its instances (definedin the monolingual dictionary) thus have the samenamespace prefix, which would not be the case ifthe lexicon model was imported by the monolin-gual dictionary.
The advantages are most obviousin the context of the mapping between monolin-gual dictionary models (see section 4.2).
Finally,a monolingual dictionary may further introduce itsown instances (or even classes) of descriptive en-tities, i.e.
descriptions which are language-specificand which are hence not part of the language-independent model of descriptions (see above).Translation model.
The translation model is anabstract model containing only relations betweenmonolingual dictionary models, i.e.
it does notcontain class definitions.
Since the model is re-quired to be generic, these relations do not havea specified domain and range, as otherwise thetranslation model would be restricted to a singlelanguage pair.
The specification of the domainand range of the relations is performed in the fi-nal model of the bilingual dictionary.Bilingual dictionary model.
The bilingual dic-tionary model is an instantiation of the translationmodel.
It further imports two monolingual dictio-69nary models and specifies the domain and range ofthe abstract relations in the translation model (seesection 4.2 below).4.2 Mapping between ModelsBy importing the monolingual dictionaries, eachof these models is assigned a unique namespaceprefix, e.g.
english: or german:.
Thus, inan English-German dictionary, for instance, a rela-tion called hasTranslationmay be defined asa symmetric property linking lexical entities of theEnglish monolingual dictionary model (i.e.
its do-main is defined for instances with the english:prefix) to lexical entities of the German model(i.e.
instances with german:).
This translationmapping is illustrated in Figure 6 for the colloca-tion Kritik u?ben.express criticismMWE: Collocation Single?Word EntitycriticizeMonolingual English Dictionary ModelParaphrase"to criticize very fiercely"Kritik ?ben kritisierenMWE: Collocation Single?Word EntityMWE: Idiomin der Luft zerrei?enMonolingual German Dictionary ModelFigure 6: Translation mapping between monolin-gual dictionariesAs is indicated there, multi-word entities can betranslated as single-word entities and vice versa.Moreover, since hasTranslation has beendefined as a symmetric property, the translationmapping is bidirectional.
However, since some in-stance in one language model might not have anequivalent instance in the other model, a furtherproperty can be defined which links the respectiveentity to a new instance created in the bilingualmodel (see Paraphrase in the figure above).
Asthis instance is only required for the modeling ofthis particular bilingual dictionary, it is not part ofthe ?original?
monolingual models, and hence therelation between the respective entities is not bidi-rectional.In addition to the translation mapping of lexi-cal entities, it may further be necessary to mapinstances of descriptive entities of one modelonto instances in the other model.
As was men-tioned in section 4.1, the model of descriptionscontains language-independent descriptive enti-ties.
Since both monolingual dictionaries importthe model of descriptions (via the lexicon model),the two ?versions?
of it are unified in the bilin-gual model.
However, it is certainly conceivableto have two languages which both avail them-selves of a descriptive entity that is not language-independent, but which is the same for the twolanguages in question.
For example, not all lan-guages have the gender neuter.
English andGerman, however, do have it, and therefore anEnglish-German bilingual dictionary has to ex-press that english:neuter is the same asgerman:neuter.
In OWL, this can be achievedby using the owl:sameAs statement, which ex-presses exactly the circumstances just mentioned.4.3 Example QueryA query retrieving the situation depicted inFigure 6 is given below.
It extracts the(quasi-)synonyms of Kritik u?ben (which Kritiku?ben itself is a part of) and their respective transla-tions and/or paraphrases.
The latter is achieved byrestricting the properties that Rel2 may stand forto those having the prefix bdm:, i.e.
the prefix de-fined for the bilingual dictionary model.
In otherwords, the query leaves the exact relation betweenB and C underspecified and simply restricts it tobeing defined in the bilingual dictionary, whichonly contains relations linking instances belongingto different monolingual dictionaries.
The resultsare shown in the table below.5 ConclusionWe have described a model for monolingual andbilingual collocation dictionaries in OWL DL.This formalism is well suited for the intendedmodularization of linguistic resources, be theylanguage- or language-pair- specific (our dictio-70SELECT DISTINCT B, CFROM {} german:hasLemma {A};Rel1 {B} Rel2 {C}WHERE A LIKE "Kritik u?ben"AND (Rel1 = german:isSynonymOfOR Rel1 = german:isQuasiSynonymOf)AND namespace(Rel2) = bdm:B Ckritisieren_VV_1 express_criticismkritisieren_VV_1 criticize_VV_1Kritik_ueben express_criticismKritik_ueben criticize_VV_1in_Luft_zerreissen ?to criticize very fiercely?Figure 7: Query for retrieving the(quasi-)synonyms of Kritik u?ben and theirtranslations and paraphrases, along with resultsnary models), generalized over one or more lan-guages (our lexicon model), or more abstract, inthe sense of a meta-model or an inventory of thedescriptive devices shared by the linguistic de-scriptions of several languages (our model of de-scriptions, see figure 5 above).
This model ofdescriptions will be larger for related languages(e.g.
the indo-european ones), and smaller for ty-pologically very diverse languages; it is howeverby no means meant to have any interlingual, letalone universal function, but is rather understoodin the sense of PARGRAM?s shared inventory ofdescriptive devices9.We have modelled so far about 1000 colloca-tions, their components, preferences and relations(also with single words); we intend to consider-ably enlarge the collocation dictionary, using thepossibilities to combine OWL DL models withdatabases, offered by the Sesame framework.
Theformalism also supports experiments with credu-lous inferencing at the level of translation equiv-alence, e.g.
by following not only explicit equiv-alence relations, but also synonymy relations: inline with the query discussed in section 4.3 above(cf.
Figure 7), one could also start from the Englishexpress criticism and retrieve the equivalent collo-cation Kritik u?ben as well as its (quasi-)synonymskritisieren (single word) and in der Luft zerrei?en(idiom), which may thus be proposed as equivalentcandidates for express criticism.More such investigations into the data collec-9Cf.
http://www2.parc.com/istl/groups/nltt/pargram/gram.htmltion are planned; they may require non-standardaccess to the dictionary, i.e.
access via paths in-volving other properties and relations than justlemmas and equivalents.
The relational nature ofthe dictionary supports this kind of exploration;we intend to specify and implement a ?linguist-friendly?
query overlay to SeRQL and a Graphi-cal User Interface to make such explorations moreeasy.ReferencesFranz Baader, Diego Calvanese, Deborah L. McGuin-ness, Daniele Nardi, and Peter F. Patel-Schneider.2003.
The Description Logic Handbook: Theory,Implementation and Applications.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press, Cambridge, UK.Sabine Bartsch.
2004.
Structural and FunctionalProperties of Collocations in English.
A CorpusStudy of Lexical and Pragmatic Constraints on Lex-ical Cooccurrence.
Narr, Tu?bingen, Germany.Sean Bechhofer, Frank van Harmelen, Jim Hendler, IanHorrocks, Deborah L. McGuinness, Peter F. Patel-Schneider, and Lynn Andrea Stein.
2004.
OWLWeb Ontology Language Reference.
Technical re-port.Anna Braasch and Sussi Olsen.
2000.
Formalisedrepresentation of collocations in a Danish compu-tational lexicon.
In Proceedings of the EURALEXInternational Congress 2000, Stuttgart, Germany.Jeen Broekstra, Arjohn Kampman, and Frank van Her-melen.
2002.
Sesame: A Generic Architecture forStoring and Querying RDF and RDF Schema.
InProceedings of the First International Semantic WebConference (ISWC 2002), pages 54?68, Sardinia,Italy.Jeen Broekstra.
2005.
Storage, Querying and Infer-encing for Semantic Web Languages.
Ph.D. thesis,Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, The Netherlands.Roger Evans and Gerald Gazdar.
1996.
DATR: A lan-guage for lexical knowledge representation.
Com-putational Linguistics, 22(2):167?216.Stefan Evert, Ulrich Heid, and Kristina Spranger.2004.
Identifying Morphosyntactic Preferences inCollocations.
In Proceedings of LREC-2004, Lis-bon, Portugal.Volker Haarslev and Ralf Mo?ller, 2005.
RacerProUser?s Guide and Reference Manual, Version 1.8.1.Franz Josef Hausmann.
2004.
Was sind eigentlich Kol-lokationen?
In Karin Steyer, editor, Wortverbindun-gen - mehr oder weniger fest, pages 309?334.
Insti-tut fu?r Deutsche Sprache: Jahrbuch 2003.71Ulrich Heid and Rufus H. Gouws.
2006.
A modelfor a multifunctional electronic dictionary of collo-cations.
Draft of a paper submitted to EURALEX2006.Holger Knublauch, Mark A. Musen, and Alan L. Rec-tor.
2004.
Editing description logic ontologieswith the Prote?ge?
OWL plugin.
In Proceedings ofthe International Workshop in Description Logics -DL2004, Whistler, BC, Canada.Brigitte Krenn.
2000.
The Usual Suspects: Data-Oriented Models for Identification and Representa-tion of Lexical Collocations.
Ph.D. thesis, DFKIUniversita?t des Saarlandes, Saarbru?cken, Germany.Julia Ritz.
2005.
Entwicklung eines Systemszur Extraktion von Kollokationen mittels mor-phosyntaktischer Features.
Diploma thesis, Insti-tut fu?r Maschinelle Sprachverarbeitung, Universita?tStuttgart, Germany.Gilles Se?rasset and Mathieu Mangeot-Lerebours.2001.
Papillon lexical database project: Monolin-gual dictionaries & interlingual links.
In Proceed-ings of the Sixth Natural Language Processing Pa-cific Rim Symposium: NLPRS-2001, pages 119?125,Tokyo, Japan.Dennis Spohr.
2005.
A Description Logic Approachto Modelling Collocations.
Diploma thesis, Insti-tut fu?r Maschinelle Sprachverarbeitung, Universita?tStuttgart, Germany.72
