Proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Tree Adjoining Grammar and Related Formalisms, pages 81?90,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsLicensing German Negative Polarity Items in LTAGTimm LichteUniversity of Tu?bingenCollaborative Research Center 441timm.lichte@uni-tuebingen.deLaura KallmeyerUniversity of Tu?bingenCollaborative Research Center 441lk@sfs.uni-tuebingen.deAbstractOur paper aims at capturing the distri-bution of negative polarity items (NPIs)within lexicalized Tree Adjoining Gram-mar (LTAG).
The condition under whichan NPI can occur in a sentence is for it tobe in the scope of a negation with no quan-tifiers scopally intervening.
We model thisrestriction within a recent framework forLTAG semantics based on semantic uni-fication.
The proposed analysis providesfeatures that signal the presence of a nega-tion in the semantics and that specify itsscope.
We extend our analysis to mod-elling the interaction of NPI licensing andneg raising constructions.1 Introduction1.1 Negative Polarity ItemsNPIs are distributionally restricted to linguistic en-vironments that exhibit a trigger for negativity (seee.g., Ladusaw, 1980; Linebarger, 1987; Zwarts,1997).
More precisely, NPIs seek to be placedwithin the scope of a negative operator at the levelof semantics.
We say that the NPI has to be li-censed by an exponent of negativity, the licenser.Examples in German can be found in (1)?
(5) (theNPI is underlined while the licenser is in boldface).
(1) a.
HansHanswarwasnichtnotsonderlichveryzufriedenhappymitwithseinerhisArbeitworkb.
*Hans war sonderlich zufrieden mit seinerArbeit(2) a. Erhehathasesitnichtnotwahrhabenaccept to be truewollenwant(?He did not want to accept it to be true?)b.
*Er hat es wahrhaben wollen.
(3) a. Esitschertbothersihnhimnichtnot(?He does not give a damn about it?)b.
*Es schert ihn.
(4) a. DuyoubrauchstneeddiesetheseBu?cherbooksnichtnotzutolesenread(?You need not read these books?)b.
*Du brauchst diese Bu?cher zu lesen.
(5) a. Niemandnobodyhathasauch nur einen Centeven one centgespendet.donated(?Nobody has donated any cent at all.?)b.
*Auch nur einen Cent hat niemandgespendet.We will mainly be concerned with verbal NPIssuch as wahrhaben wollen (?accept to be true?)
andscheren (?to give a damn about?).
Another groupof NPIs we will pay closer attention to are min-imizers, here exemplified by auch nur ein Cent(?any Cent at all?).
They are quantifiers denot-ing the bottom line of a scale and therefore showaffinity with negation due to pragmatic reasons.Furthermore, minimizers as quantifiers are subjectto particular position restrictions with respect tonegation (see next section).
A group of NPIs wewill leave aside in this paper, however, is that ofadjectival NPIs such as sonderlich (?very?
).1.2 NPI LicensersVarious items and constructions can license NPIs.Besides the more obvious ones such as not, no-body and never, also (among others) few, re-81strictors of universal quantifiers, conditional ante-cendents and questions can license at least someof the NPIs.
There has been much controversyabout what the characterizing logical property oflicensers is.
One proposal is based on the notionof downward entailment (DE, Ladusaw, 1980),which holds for operators whose truth value is per-sistent over specification.
While the DE propertycan be found in most of the licensers, there aresome, such as questions, where it is hard to detect(see van der Wouden, 1997 for an overview).1In our proposal we don?t make use of DE as anNPI licensing criterion.
Instead we only requirethe negation operator (?)
in the semantic represen-tation as licensing feature.
We thereby restrict our-selves to triggers of ?classic?
negation; we go evenfurther and only implement non-contrastive nega-tion.
We use this term after Jacobs (1982) wherenon-contrastive negation (NCN) and contrastivenegation (CN) are examined for German.
Theydiffer in that sentences with CN can be extendedby a but-phrase (Sondern-Phrase) while adding abut-phrase to sentences with NCN gives odd re-sults.
Put differently, CN focuses on parts of asentence while NCN does not.2 Whether CN orNCN is available, is indicated by intonation andposition of the negative element.
However, am-biguous indications are possible.
In our analysis,we leave aside intonation and stick to unambigu-ous NCN as far as possible.1.3 Semantic Scope and Range of LicensingIt is not sufficient for an NPI to just co-occurwith a licenser in the same sentence; it has to bein the licenser?s scope.
Furthermore, additionalconstraints have been proposed in the literature.One of the most extensively discussed requires theNPI to be c-commanded by the licenser on sur-face structure (c-command constraint, Ladusaw,1980).
As Hoeksema (2000) points out, the c-command constraint is too restrictive when ap-plied to languages with a considerably freer wordorder than English, e.g.
Dutch and German (see(4) for an example that does not respect the c-command constraint).
He also points out thatthe need for the c-command constraint only arises1Giannakidou (1997) therefore proposes the idea of non-veridicality as being the basic logical property of NPI-licensers - eventually facing the problem of being less restric-itive than required.2If CN is available NPIs can only be licensed in the partfocused by CN.from capturing the distribution of minimizers.
Allother NPIs obey a simple scope constraint in termsof Linebarger?s immediate scope constraint (ISC,Linebarger, 1980; Linebarger, 1987), namely thatno other propositional operators (i.e.
?logical ele-ments?
that are capable of entering into scope am-biguities) may intervene between the licenser andthe NPI on LF.While the ISC seems to hold for quantifiers,quantificational adverbs and operators that con-join propositions such as because, there are infact some operators that may scopally intervene.Among them are non-quantificational adverbs,minimizers and modals, as in (6):(6) PeterPeterhathaskeinennoFingerfingerru?hrenmovemu?ssen.must(?Peter didn?t need to lift a finger.?
)In (6), the negation always has wide scope withrespect to the modal mu?ssen (must), hence mu?ssenintervenes between negation and NPI, but still thesentence is grammatical.Thus, our criterion for an NPI to be licensed is1.
to be in the scope of a negation that is seman-tically interpreted in the same finite clause, and2.
not to allow regular quantifiers to scopally in-tervene between negation and NPI.
In this paper,we will also refer to these criterions as immedi-ate scope.3 Minimizers seem to add a third crite-rion, namely that the licenser has to syntacticallyc-command the minimizer.Independently from the ISC, one has to keep inmind that negative elements in German are able tocancel each other out, that is to constitute doublenegation.
We will come back to this briefly in sec-tion 3.1.4 Neg Raising ConstructionsWe extend our analysis to so-called neg raising(NR, cf.
Horn, 1978) constructions because thereare interesting interactions between NPI licensingand neg raising.3Note that with this approach, one negation can even li-cense several NPIs as in (i):(i) KeinnoSchu?lerpupilhathasjemalseverinindentheFerienholidayssonderlichparticularlyvielmuchgelernt.learned(?No pupil has ever learned very much during the hol-idays.?
)82An example of a NR-verb is glauben (?believe?
)in (7).
(7) HansHansglaubtbelievesnicht,notdassthatPeterPeterkommt.comes(?Hans does not believe that Peter is com-ing.?
)The negation can either take scope at its surfaceposition, i.e., scope over glauben, or it can scopewithin the embedded sentence.
Hence, two inter-pretations are generally available: (a) ?believe(p)and (b) believe(?p).
The second reading is possi-ble only with NR-verbs.In LTAG, lexical material is generated at its sur-face structure position, there is no movement out-side the lexicon.
Therefore it is natural to assumewith respect to sentences as (7), that the negationis syntactically generated in the matrix clause andthat neg raising attitude verbs such as glauben al-low for semantic lowering of an attached negation.This negation then receives wide scope within thesentential complement.
In this, we follow theHPSG analysis proposed in Sailer (to appear).The presence of an NPI in the embedded sen-tence as in (8) forces the negation to scope un-der the bridge verb, that is the (b)-interpretationis chosen.
(8) HansHansglaubtbelievesnicht,notdassthatPeterPetersonderlichveryglu?cklichhappyseinbewird.will(?Hans does not believe that Peter will bevery happy.?
)2 The LTAG Semantics FrameworkWe use the Kallmeyer and Romero (2005) frame-work for semantics.
Each elementary tree is linkedto a semantic representation containing Ty2 termsand scope constraints.
Ty2 terms are typed ?-terms providing individuals and situations as basictypes.
The terms can be labeled, and they can con-tain meta-variables.
The scope constraints are sub-ordination constraints of the form x ?
y (?y is acomponent of x?)
with x and y being either propo-sitional labels or propositional meta-variables.The semantic representations are equipped withfeature structure descriptions.
Semantic compu-tation is done on the derivation tree and consistsof certain feature value equations between motherand daughter nodes of edges in the derivation tree.l1 : laugh( 1 )??
?NP[GLOBAL[I 1]]VP[B[P l1]]??
?np vpjohn(x) l2 : always( 3 ),3 ?
4[GLOBAL[I x]] ??
?VPr[B[P l2]]VPf[B[P 4]]??
?Figure 1: LTAG semantics of (9)The meta-variables from the semantic representa-tions can occur in the feature structure descrip-tions.
In this case they can receive values follow-ing from the feature value equations performed onthe derivation tree.As an example see Fig.
1 showing the deriva-tion tree for (9) with semantic representations andsemantic feature structure descriptions as node la-bels.
(9) John always laughsThe additional feature equations in this exampleare depicted with dotted links.
They arise fromtop-bottom feature identifications parallel to theunifications performed in FTAG (Vijay-Shankerand Joshi, 1988) and from identifications of globalfeatures.
They yield 1 = x and 4 = l1.
Apply-ing these identities to the semantic representationsafter having built their union leads to (10).
Theconstraint 3 ?
l1 states that l1 : laugh(x) is acomponent of 3 .
(10)john(x), l2 : always( 3 ),l1 : laugh(x),3 ?
l1We assume a scope window for quantifiersspecifying an upper boundary MAXS (?maximalscope?)
and a lower boundary MINS (?minimalscope?)
for the nuclear scope.
In this we followKallmeyer and Romero (2005).
In addition, how-ever, we make use of the feature MINP (?minimalproposition?).
In their analysis, which was devel-oped for English, MINS and MINP are the same, inother words, there is no separate MINP feature.
InGerman, the minimal scope of a quantifier seemsto depend not only on the verb the quantifier at-taches to but also on other factors (see Kallmeyer83and Romero, 2006 in this volume for the influ-ence of word order on quantifier scope in Ger-man).
This justifies the assumption that GermanMINS if different from English MINS.
The scopeorder is of course such that MAXS is higher thanMINS which is in turn higher than MINP.In order to deal with NPI-licensing we intro-duce three new features: a global and a local NEG-feature and the global feature N-SCOPE.
Not sur-prisingly, the latter represents the scope of a nega-tive operator, while the former is needed to checkthe presence of a negative operator.
The next sec-tion offers detailed examples.3 The Analysis of LicensersIn this section we give the elementary trees fornon-contrastive nicht (not) and niemand (nobody).A strong trigger for NCN is nicht attached tothe verb.
Based on the topological field theoryfor German the attachment takes place at the rightsatzklammer, a position that together with the leftsatzklammer contains the verbal expression.4 Asan example see the derivation for (11) in Fig.
2.
(11) PeterPeterruftcallsHansHansnichtnotanPART(?Peter does not call Hans?
)Similar to Gerdes (2002), the VP nodes carry fea-tures VF (?Vorfeld?
), LK (?Linke Satzklammer?
),MF (?Mittelfeld?
), and RK (?Rechte Satzklammer?
)for the topological fields.
In German, the vorfeld,the position preceding the left satzklammer, mustbe filled by exactly one constituent.
We guaran-tee this with the feature VF: The different VF fea-tures at the highest VP node in the tree for ruft anmake sure that adjunction to the vorfeld is obliga-tory.
At the same time, elements adjoining to anyof the topological fields (see the tree for Peter)have a foot node feature VF = ?
and have equaltop and bottom features VF at their root.
When4Exceptions to this generalization are found with verbsthat express movement:(i) a. PeterPetergehtgoesnichtnotinsto theKino.movies(?Peter does not go to the movies?)b.
*......dassthatPeterPeterinsto theKinomoviesnichtnotgeht.goes(?...
that Peter does not go to the movies?
)Here the NC-nicht is always attached to the adverb that ex-presses the direction or target of the movement, thus not to thesecond satzklammer directly.
For this paper, we leave thesecases aside.VP[V F+][V F?
]V[LK+, RK?
]VP[V F?,MF+]ruft NPnom VP[V F?,MF+]NPacc V[LK?, RK+]anNPaccHansVnicht V [RK+]??????????????
?VP[V F 10 ][V F 10 ]NP VP[V F?]?PeterNPnom??????????????
?Figure 2: Syntactic analysis for (11)adjoining to the vorfeld, these receive values +.Consequently, further adjunctions of similar ele-ments at the new root node are not possible.
Anadjunction at the foot node of the auxiliary tree ofthe vorfeld element can be excluded by some otherfeature.
This guarantees that exactly one elementgets adjoined into the vorfeld.Note that we consider the base position of thesubject NP being in the mittelfeld and consider thesubject as being moved into the vorfeld.
Alterna-tively, any other element could be moved in to thevorfeld instead.The semantic combination of nicht and ruft anis shown in Fig.
3.The MINP feature from ruft indicates the propo-sition contributed by the verb which is the mini-mal proposition of the whole elementary tree.
It isincluded in the scope of all operators (quantifiers,negation, modals, .
.
. )
attaching to this verb (Anexception is of course neg raising where the scopeof the negation does not include the MINP value ofthe NR-verb.
).The unifications between the two feature struc-tures in Fig.
3 are depicted with dotted lines.
Theyyield in particular 9 = 7 , therefore, with con-straint 7 ?
l1, l1 is in the scope of the negation.The presence of a negation is indicated by aglobal NEG = yes.
In case there is no negation,we have to make sure we obtain NEG = no and notjust an unspecified NEG value.
Therefore, the VPspine is articulated with non-global NEG featuresthat switch from no to yes once a negation occurs.Here this is the case at node position V, conse-quently 6 = 5 = 4 = 3 = yes.
The topmost84l1 : call( 1 , 2 )7 ?
l1??????????????????????????????GLOBAL?
?N-SCOPE 7MINP l1NEG 3??VP?
[T[NEG 3]B[NEG 4]]VP2[T[NEG 4]B[NEG 5]]VP22[T[NEG 5]B[NEG 6]]V[T[NEG 6]B[NEG no]]NPnom[GLOBAL[I 1]]NPacc[GLOBAL[I 2]]?????????????????????????????
?vl2 : ?
9??
?Vr[B[NEG yes]]Vf[GLOBAL[N-SCOPE 9]]??
?Figure 3: Semantic computation for ... ruft ...nicht anNEG then becomes the global NEG.Cases of double negation, though not consid-ered here, could be captured by assuming that eachnegation on the verbal spine makes the value ofthe local NEG feature switch (from no to yes or, ifthere was already negation, from yes to no).
Thisway, double negation would lead to a global NEGfeature with value no.The negative quantifier niemand has the distri-bution of an NP.
The elementary trees in Fig.
4for niemand reflect the ??
reading which is pre-ferred by an analysis assuming that the NPI mustbe in the scope of a negation with no quantifiers in-tervening.
The features NEG, MINP and N-SCOPEwork in the same way as in the case of nicht.
Theglobal I feature linked to the initial tree with thetrace passes the argument variable to the verb.Note that this is an analysis for the case whereniemand is ?moved?.
If niemand is in base posi-tion, the lexical item comes with an initial tree thatis substituted at the corresponding NP slot.
How-ever, since the NEG-feature can only be switchedto yes by adjoining an auxiliary tree carryingnegation to a VP node, even in these cases weneed an additional VP auxiliary tree contributingthe sentential negation.55Another option would be to let the initial tree of niemanddirectly access the semantic features of a VP node.??????
?VP[V F 20 ][V F 20 ]NP VP[V F?]?niemandNPnom???????
?Semantics:VP[V F 20 ][V F 20 ]NP VP[V F?
]?niemandl2 : forall(x, 7 , 8 ),l3 : person(x),l4 : ?
9 ,7 ?
l3, 8 ?
l4??
?VPr[B[NEG yes]]VPf[GLOBAL[N-SCOPE 9]]???NPnom?
[GLOBAL[I x]]Figure 4: Lexical entry for niemand4 The Analysis of NPIsFor this paper we restrict ourselves to verbal NPIsand minimizers.As an example for a verbal NPI considerscheren (?to give a damn about sth.?)
in (3).
Itslexical entry is shown in Fig.
5.
As in the case ofruft, the verbal spine is articulated with the NEGfeature.
Furthermore, GLOBAL contains the re-quirement of a negation (NEG = yes).
In partic-ular, the topmost NEG feature on the verbal spineis yes while the value of the lowest NEG feature isno.
This means that at some point on the verbalspine a negation must be added that switches thevalue from no to yes.Concerning the scope relation between NPI andnegation, the following should hold: 1. the NPImust be in the scope of the negation, and 2. quan-tifiers must not intervene between negation andNPI.The first condition is guaranteed with constraint9 ?
l1.In order to capture the second restriction, thedistinction between MINS and MINP allows usto draw a border line between the domain wherequantifiers can take scope and the domain wherethe negation and the NPI are positioned.
Otherscope taking operators (modals, adverbs, .
.
.
)are not concerned by this limit.
This border lineis the MINS value, and the crucial NPI-specificconstraint is 8 ?
9 stating that the negation must85VP[V F+][V F?
]V[LK+, RK?
]VP[V F?,MF+]schert NPnom VP[V F?,MF+]NPacc V[LK?, RK+]?l1 : scheren( 1 , 2 )7 ?
8 , 8 ?
l1,8 ?
9 , 9 ?
l1??????????????????????????????????GLOBAL?????
?MINP l1MINS 8MAXS 7N-SCOPE 9NEG yes??????VP?
[T[NEG yes]B[NEG 4]]VP2[T[NEG 4]B[NEG 5]]VP22[T[NEG 5]B[NEG 6]]V[T[NEG 6]B[NEG no]]NPnom[GLOBAL[I 1]]NPacc[GLOBAL[I 2]]?????????????????????????????????
?Figure 5: Lexical entry for schertscope under the minimal scope of all quantifiers.The scope relations then can be summarised as inFig.
6.no NPI involved:MAXSMINS ?MINPNPI involved:MAXSMINS?NPIMINPFigure 6: Scope relations of MAXS, MINS and ?with and without the involvement of an NPI.As mentioned in 1.3 minimizers show a morerestrictive distribution than verbal NPIs.
In addi-tion to the two licensing conditions of verbal NPIsstated above minimizers also obey a third licensingcondition in German: the negation must precedethe minimizer in the same clause or the negationmust have wide scope with respect to the sentencecontaining the minimizer, such as in NR construc-tions.
Consider the minimizer auch nur einen Cent(?any cent at all?)
in example (5) and its proposedlexical entry in Fig.
7.??????
?VPNP VP?auch nur einen CentNPnom???????
?l1 : exists(x, 1 , 2 )l2 : Cent(x)1 ?
l2, 2 ?
6 , 4 ?
l1,5 ?
4??????????VPf?????????GLOBAL???
?N-SCOPE 4MINS 5MINP 6NEG yes???
?T[NEG no]B[NEG no]???????????????????
[GLOBAL[I x]]Figure 7: Lexical entry for auch nur einen CentWe propose a multicomponent lexical entry forminimizers here, since they have to access the se-mantic feature structure of the VP spine, and there-fore have to be adjoined.
This is different fromverbal NPIs (that are part of the VP spine by def-inition), but similar to the negative quantifier nie-mand.
As for verbal NPIs the presence of a nega-tion is ensured by the global NEG feature, that isrequired to be yes.
The scope condition is satis-fied by the constraints 4 ?
l1 and 5 ?
4 : the for-mer one ensures that the semantic contribution ofauch nur einen Cent is part of N-SCOPE, while thelatter one prohibits any intervening regular quanti-fier (by requiring N-SCOPE to be a subexpressionof MINS).6In order to meet the third condition we have tomake sure that the negation appears somewhere tothe left of the minimizer.
In other words, the nega-tion is not attached between the right satzklammerand the minimizer, but somewhere else (as ensuredby the global NEG feature).
Remember that theposition of a negation is signaled by the local NEGfeature on the VP spine and its switch from no toyes.
One way to exploit this is to let the mini-mizer semantically specify the VP node to which6Note that, though being quantifiers, minimizers are notconcerned by the MAXS-MINS scope window.
Instead, theirscope window is specified by N-SCOPE as upper limit andMINP as lower limit (the latter results from constraint 2 ?
6 .86it can be attached.
This is accomplished by theVPf feature in the lexical entry for auch nur einenCent, where the local NEG is required to be no,while the global NEG is yes.
Thereby it is guaran-teed that somewhere between the position wherethe adjunction of the minimizer takes place and themaximal projection of the VP the NEG feature hasto switch to yes with the aid of a negative item.5 The Analysis of Neg RaisingNow let us turn to the neg raising examples fromsection 1.4.
Attitude verbs that optionally offerneg raising are mapped onto two lexical entriesrepresenting a non-NR- and a NR-reading.
Inthe latter, the negation takes wide scope withinthe embedded clause.
In other words, quantifierscannot scopally intervene between the embeddingverb and the negation.
This is exemplified in (12).
(12) PeterPeterglaubtbelievesnicht,notdassthatjedereachseinerof hisFreundefriendskommencomewird.will.
(?Peter does not believe that each of hisfriends will come?
)The NR-reading (believes(p, ?
?
?
?
?
?
?)
does notexclude that Peter believes that some of his friendswill come.
A reading where Peter believes thatnone of his friends will come is not available.
Inother words, the quantifier has to scope under thenegation.The lexical entry for glaubt with the NR-reading is shown in Fig.
8.
In the syntax we as-sume a substitution node for the sentential com-plement.
Long-distance dependencies are thenanalysed with multicomponents.
This choice wasmotivated because in German, taking into ac-count scrambling, more movement-based word or-der variations are possible than in English.
Forthese we need multicomponents anyway (see theelementary tree set for niemand), and then senten-tial complements might be treated in parallel.
TheS substitution node carries a syntactic feature NRindicating that this is a neg raising construction.The lowering of the negation is expressed as fol-lows: the N-SCOPE of glaubt (variable 7 ), i.e., thescope of the attaching negation, does not containthe MINP of glaubt as in non-NR readings.
In-stead, it contains the MAXS (variable 9 ) of the em-bedded sentence (constraint 7 ?
9 ).
This MAXSis usually contained in the propositional argumentVP[V F+][V F?
]V[LK+, RK?
]VP[V F?,MF+]glaubt NPnom VP[V F?,MF+]V[LK?, RK+]S[nr+]?l1 : believe( 1 , 8 )8 ?
77 ?
9????????????????????????????????GLOBAL?
?MINP l1N-SCOPE 7NEG no??VP?
[T[NEG yes]B[NEG 4]]VP1[T[NEG 4]B[NEG 5]]VP12[T[NEG 5]B[NEG 6]]V[T[NEG 6]B[NEG no]]S[GLOBAL[N-SCOPE 7MAXS 9]]NPnom[GLOBAL[I 1]]???????????????????????????????
?Figure 8: Lexical entry for glaubtof believe (see Kallmeyer and Romero, 2005); inthis special neg raising entry we even require theN-SCOPE to be contained in this argument (con-straint 8 ?
7 ).
The MAXS feature 9 marks theupper limit for the scope of all quantifiers occur-ring inside the embedded clause.
Consequently,wide scope of the lowered negation with respectto the embedded sentence is ensured.The lexical entry for glaubt with NR-readingalso has to make sure that a negative element is at-tached to its verbal spine.
In this respect its seman-tic feature structure resembles the one of a ver-bal NPI, that is the NEG value has to be switchedto yes by adjunction.
However, semantically thenegation is interpreted in the embedded sentenceand NPIs cannot be licensed in the matrix clause.Therefore, the value of the global NEG feature isno.The complementizer of the embedded clausetakes care of setting the value of the embeddedglobal NEG to yes by identifying the NEG featureof its S node with the topmost NEG feature on the87verbal spine of the embedded clause.
In a non-NR-reading, the complementizer only passes the NEGvalue upwards, i.e., the global NEG of the embed-ded clause specifies whether a negation is presentin the embedded clause.S [nr+]Comp VP [V F+]?dass[S[T[NEG yes]]]Figure 9: Complementizer dass in neg raising con-structionWith this analysis, if a NR-verb embeds an NPIas in (8), the NPI requires the NR-reading; oth-erwise the global NEG feature of the embeddedclause is no.Next, we want to give an example derivationof a sentence that contains an unlicensed NPI andwhich amounts to contradicting scope constraints.It concerns the following sentence:(13) *HansHansglaubtbelievesnicht,not,dassthatesitjedeneverybodyschert.bothers(?Hans doesn?t believe that everybodygives a damn about it.?
)The NPI schert is not licensed due to the inter-vening quantifier jeden (every).
The defectivedervation of (13) is shown in Fig.
10.
Syntacti-cally, the S leaf of the Hans glaubt nicht treeis substituted by the dass es schert tree and thejeder tree is substituted into the dass es scherttree.
This works fine.
In the semantic represen-tation, however, we observe a clash of the scopeconstraints.
Remember that we analyse the ver-bal NPI schert as requiring immediate scope, thatis MINS ?
N-SCOPE.
On the other side, theNR-verb glauben demands the negation to havewide scope with respect to the embedded sentence,hence N-SCOPE ?
MAXS (constraint l2 ?
3 ) .
Ifwe put these two constraints together we obtainthe constraint MINS = MAXS, which means thatthe area where quantifiers take scope (the MAXS-MINS window) is empty and hence there cannotbe any quantifiers.
A quantifer such as jeden isthen ruled out due to two semantic constraints itcontributes: its semantic content is a subexpres-sion of MAXS (constraint 3 ?
l3) and MINS isa subexpression of its nuclear scope (constraint6 ?
l2).
However, this can only hold if MINS6= MAXS which is not true for (13) as has beenshown.Hans glaubt nichtl1 : believe(Hans, 1 )l5 : ?l21 ?
l2, l2 ?
3???????GLOBAL?
?MINP l1N-SCOPE 7NEG no?
?Sf[GLOBAL[N-SCOPE 7MAXS 3]]??????
?dass es schertl2 : es schert( 4 , es)7 ?
l2????GLOBAL???
?MINP l2MINS 7N-SCOPE 7NEG yes???????
?jedenl3 : every(x, 5 , 6 )l4 : person(x)5 ?
l4, 3 ?
6 , 6 ?
73 ?
l3???
?GLOBAL[I x]NP[GLOBAL[MINS 7MAXS 3]]???
?Figure 10: Defective derivation tree for Hansglaubt nicht, dass es jeden schert6 Conclusion and further researchWe propose an LTAG analysis of the distributionof German NPIs.
The crucial criterion for an NPIis the requirement to be in the scope of a nega-tion that is semantically in the same finite clausesuch that no quantifier can scopally intervene be-tween negation and NPI.
Technically we achievedthis using the features NEG and N-SCOPE, that sig-nal the presence of a negation and make its imme-diate scope available for the NPI.
7 The specificconstraints for quantifiers when occurring with7Note however, that, even though we have called the fea-ture signalling the presence of a potential NPI licenser NEG,we might as well call it differently and give it a differentmeaning (for example, encoding downward entailment in-stead of negation).
The licensing mechanism and the way thisfeature is used could stay the same.
In this sense our analysisis independent from the concrete logical characterization ofNPI licensers.88NPI licensing negations are obtained by a distinc-tion between the feature MINS characterizing thelower boundary of quantifier scope and the mini-mal proposition contributed by a verb that charac-terizes the lower boundary for the scope of nega-tions.We think LTAG is particularly well suited to de-scribe this phenomenon since the relation betweenlicenser and licensee can be localized within sin-gle elementary trees.8 The only exception are negraising constructions where the licensing propertyneeds to be passed down to the embedded clause.This is not non-local either and can be easily mod-elled in LTAG.
This shows that LTAG?s extendeddomain of locality has advantages not only forsyntax (see Kroch, 1987) but also for semantics.The analyses discussed in this paper havedemonstrated the usefulness of semantic featurestructure descriptions that specify the combinationpossibilities of semantic representations and thatare separated from the semantic representationsthemselves.
On the one hand the semantic featuresencode the contributions of the semantic represen-tations to functional applications.
I.e., they statewhich elments are contributed as possible argu-ments for other semantic expressions and whicharguments need to be filled.
They thereby simu-late lambda abstraction and functional application.On the other hand they also serve to model thescopal behaviour of different operators and to cap-ture the different boundaries for scope.
The com-bination of LTAG?s extended domain of localitywith a semantics using feature structure unifica-tion enables us to capture these constraints withina mildly context-sensitive framework: The struc-tures underlying the computation of syntax and se-mantics are the context-free derivation trees.One line of further research we want to pursue isan extension of the proposed analysis to adjectivaland adverbial NPIs.
We already started workingon this.
But for reasons of space we left this out inthis paper.AcknowledgementsFor many inspiring discussions of the topicstreated in this paper, we are grateful to our col-leagues Wolfgang Maier, Frank Richter, Manfred8In the HPSG analysis from Soehn (2006) for example,where we do not have an extended domain of locality, onehas to specify explicitely that the licenser of an NPI must befound within the next complete clause containing the NPI.Sailer and Jan-Philipp So?hn.
Furthermore, the pa-per benefitted a lot from the useful comments ofthree anonymous reviewers.ReferencesKim Gerdes.
2002.
DTAG?
In Proceedings of TAG+6Workshop, pages 242?251.
Venice.Anastasia Giannakidou.
1997.
The Landscape of Po-larity Items.
Ph.D. thesis, Rijksuniversiteit Gronin-gen.Jack Hoeksema.
2000.
Negative Polarity Items: Trig-gering, Scope and C-Command.
In Laurence Hornand Yasuhiko Kato, editors, Negation and Polarity,pages 115?146.
Oxford University Press, Oxford.Laurence R. Horn.
1978.
Remarks on Neg-Raising.In Peter Cole, editor, Pragmatics, pages 129?220.Academic Press, New York, San Francisco, London.Joachim Jacobs.
1982.
Syntax und Semantik der Nega-tion im Deutschen.
Wilhelm Fink Verlag, Mu?nchen.Laura Kallmeyer and Maribel Romero.
2005.
Scopeand Situation Binding in LTAG using Semantic Uni-fication.
Research on Language and Computation.57 pages, submitted.Laura Kallmeyer and Maribel Romero.
2006.
Quan-tifier Scope in German: An MCTAG Analysis.In Proceedings of The Eighth International Work-shop on Tree Adjoining Grammar and Related For-malisms (TAG+8), Sydney, Australia, July.Anthony S. Kroch.
1987.
Unbounded Dependen-cies and Subjacency in a Tree Adjoining Grammar.In A. Manaster-Ramer, editor, Mathematics of Lan-guage, pages 143?172.
John Benjamins, Amster-dam.William Ladusaw.
1980.
Polarity Sensitivity as Inher-ent Scope relations.
Garland Press, New York.Marcia Linebarger.
1980.
The Grammar of NegativePolarity.
Ph.D. thesis, MIT.
cited after the repro-duction by the Indiana University Linguistics Club,Indiana, 1981.Marcia Linebarger.
1987.
Negative Polarity andGrammatical Representation.
Linguistics and Phi-losophy, 10:325?387.Manfred Sailer.
to appear.
?Don?t Believe?
in Under-specified Semantics.
an LRS Analysis of Neg Rais-ing.
Empirical Issues in Formal Syntax and Seman-tics 6.Jan-Philipp Soehn.
2006.
?Uber Ba?rendienste und er-staunte Bauklo?tze - Idiome ohne freie Lesart in derHPSG.
Ph.D. thesis, Fiedrich-Schiller Universita?tJena.89Ton van der Wouden.
1997.
Negative Contexts.
Collo-cation, Polarity and Multiple Negation.
Routledge,London.K.
Vijay-Shanker and Aravind K. Joshi.
1988.
Fea-ture Structures Based Tree Adjoining Grammar.
InProceedings of COLING, pages 714?719, Budapest.Frans Zwarts.
1997.
Three Types of Polarity.
InFritz Hamm and Erhard W. Hinrichs, editors, Plu-rality and Quantification, pages 177?237.
KluwerAcademic Publishers, Dordrecht.90
