Named Entities Translation Based on Comparable CorporaIn?aki AlegriaIXA NLP GroupEHUDonostia, Basque Countryi.alegria@ehu.esNerea EzeizaIXA NLP GroupEHUDonostia, Basque Countryn.ezeiza@ehu.esIzaskun FernandezIXA NLP GroupEHUDonostia, Basque Countryacbfegoi@si.ehu.esAbstractIn this paper we present a system fortranslating named entities from Basqueto Spanish based on comparable corpora.For that purpose we have tried two ap-proaches: one based on Basque linguis-tic features, and a language-independenttool.
For both tools we have used Basque-Spanish comparable corpora, a bilingualdictionary and the web as resources.1 IntroductionPerson, location and organization names, maintypes of named entities (NEs), are expressionscommonly used in all kinds of written texts.
Re-cently, these expressions have become indispens-able units of information for many applicationsin the area of information extraction as well asfor many searching engines.
A lot of tools thatdeal with the identification and classification ofnamed entities for a specific language have beenpresented (CoNLL1).
But there are few researchesfor translation of NEs.Our main goal is to get a multilingual NE data-base, which can be very useful for translationsystems, multilingual information extraction tools(i.e.
Question Answering) or many multilingualsystems in general.
As getting that multilingualsource is a complex task, we have started design-ing a system for translating named entities fromBasque to Spanish based on comparable corpora.Looking at the works published on NE trans-lation, we can distinguish 3 types of systems: thesystems more often used are the ones based on par-allel corpora; then the ones based on comparable1http://www.cnts.ua.ac.be/conll2003/ner/corpora; and finally the ones that only use the webas an open corpus.As we have mentioned before, most of the re-lated works use parallel corpora.
However and asit is widely known, obtaining parallel corpus is notan easy task, and it becomes harder when one ofthe languages in the pair is a minority language,as is the case of Basque.
We can avoid workingwith parallel corpora using comparable corpora.Comparable corpora are those data sets which arewritten in different languages, treat similar sub-jects and are written in a similar style, but are notnecessarily texts?
translations.
Obtaining that kindof corpora is much easier than obtaining parallelone, although sometimes it is not possible to getneither of them.
In this case, we can use the webas a multilingual corpus, in order to search it forany possible entity translation.We have a comparable data set available forBasque and Spanish.
But besides using that datasource, we decided also to resort to the web as acomplementary data set too, as in (Moore, 2003).Apart from these two data sets, we have alsoused some other information sources to developthe Basque-Spanish bilingual NE translation sys-tem.
We have carried out two main different ex-periments: one using a language-dependent gram-mar, implementing transliteration transformations(Al-Onaizan et al, 2002b) and rules related toelements?
order; and another one based on theedition distance (Kukich, 1992) grammar, sim-ulating simple cognates and transliteration trans-formations, but in a language-independent way.In both experiments, we have used a Basque-Spanish bilingual dictionary for the words inwhich transliteration transformations were notenough to obtain the correct translated form.Furthermore, we have always worked using1Basque as source language, and Spanish as targetlanguage.Since Basque and Spanish do not follow thesame syntactic pattern, entity elements may occurin different positions in both languages.
That iswhy the elements need to be arranged when trans-lating Basque entities into Spanish.The paper is structured as follows.
Section 2presents the related works.
Section 3 presentsthe experimental settings.
In section 4 we de-scribe the development of NE translation systemexplaining both possible systems, the language-dependent system and the language-independentone, and the system that combines both language-dependent and independent sources.
In section 5,we present the results of the experiments, and fi-nally, section 6 presents some conclusions and fu-ture works.2 Related WorksDespite the difficulty of getting bilingual parallelcorpus, most of the NE translation researches car-ried out work with parallel data-sets.
Furthermore,those bilingual corpora are used to be aligned atparagraph or even at phrase level.
For example,Moore?s work (Moore, 2003) uses a bilingualparallel aligned English-French corpora, and ap-plying different statistical techniques, he obtains aFrench form for each English entity.Although it has been less experimented withcomparable corpora there are some known sys-tems designed to work with them as well.
Mostof them deal with language pairs that have dif-ferent kinds of alphabets.
For instance, theChinese-English translation tool presented in ACL2003 (Chen et al, 2003), or the one publishedin the ACL 2002 edition for translating entitynames from Arabic to English (Al-Onaizan etal., 2002a).
The main goal of both systems is toobtain the corresponding form for English, tak-ing Chinese and Arabic respectively as source lan-guages.
Two kinds of translations can be distin-guished in both systems: direct/simple translationsand transliterations (Al-Onaizan et al, 2002b).However, the techniques used by each tool forboth kinds of translations are different.
Frequencybased methods are used in Chinese-English trans-lations, while in the Arabic-English language pair,a more complex process is applied, which involvesthe combination of different kinds of techniques.In this paper, we present the research carriedout for translating entity names from Basque intoSpanish.
For the first step, we have based on thesystem presented by Y. Al Onaizan and K. Knightin ACL 2002.
With this system, they first obtaina candidate translation list for the entity in the tar-get language, using both monolingual and bilin-gual resources.
Once they have this list, they builda ranking with candidates applying different meth-ods (such as statistical measures, web-counting,etc.).
Finally, if they consider that the correcttranslation does not appear in the list, they extractan extended list version using the web and theyapply again the ranking step.3 Experimental settingsWe have obtained a Basque-Spanish comparablecorpora processing news from two newspapers,one for each language: Euskaldunon Egunkaria,the only newspaper written entirely in Basque forBasque texts, and EFE for Spanish texts.
We havecollected the articles written in the 2002 year inboth newspapers and we have obtained 40,648 ar-ticles with 9,655,559 words for Basque and 16,914with 5,192,567 words for Spanish.
Both newspa-pers deal with similar topics: international news,sports, politics, economy, culture, local issues andopinion articles, but with different scope.In order to extract Basque NEs, we have usedEihera (Alegria et al, 2003), a Basque NE rec-ognizer developed in the IXA Group.
Giving awritten text in Basque as input, this tool appliesa grammar based on linguistic features in orderto identify the entities in the text.
For the clas-sification of the identified expressions, we use aheuristic that combines both internal and externalevidence.
We labeled this corpus for the HER-MES project2(news databases: cross-lingual infor-mation retrieval and semantic extraction).
Thus,we obtained automatically 142,464 different per-son, location and organization names.Since we have participated at the HERMESproject, we have available labeled corpora for theother languages processed by other participants.
Itwas the TALP3 research group the one that was incharge of labeling EFE 2002 newspaper?s articlesfor the Spanish version, in which 106,473 differ-ent named entities were dealt with.
We have builtthe comparable corpus using this data-set togetherwith the Basque set mentioned above.2http://nlp.uned.es/hermes/3http://www.lsi.upc.edu/ nlp/web/2Being Basque an agglutinative language, entityelements may contain more than just lexical infor-mation.
So before doing any translation attempta morphosyntactic analysis is required in order toobtain all the information from each element.
Fur-thermore, Eihera works on a lemmatized text, solematizing the input text is a strong requirement.For that purpose, we apply the lemmatizer/taggerfor Basque (Alegria et al, 1998) developed by theIXA group.The goal of our system is to translate Basqueperson, location and organization names intoSpanish entities.
These two languages share alot of cognates, that is, words that are similar inboth languages and only have small, usually pre-dictable spelling differences.
Two experts have re-viewed an extended list of word pairs4 extractedfrom EDBL (Basque Lexical Data-base) in orderto detect these differences.
All the observed varia-tions have been listed in a spelling-rule list.
Theserules are in fact the ones that will be applied for thetranslation of some of the words, but obviously notfor all.When translating Basque words into Spanish,usually the correct form is not obtained by ap-plying the rules mentioned before, and a differentstrategy is required.
For these words in particu-lar, we have used bilingual dictionaries as in Al-Onaizan and Knight?s work.We have used the Elhuyar 2000 bilingual dic-tionary, one of the most popular for that languagepair.
This dictionary has 74,331 Basque entries,and it contains the corresponding Spanish syn-onyms.For the evaluation, we have used a set of 180named entity-pairs.
We have borrowed that setfrom the Euskaldunon Egunkaria 2002 newspaper.Concretely we applied Eihera, the Basque NE rec-ognizer, to extract all the named entities in the cor-pus.
Then we estimated the normalized frequencyof each entity in the corpus, and we selected themost common ones.
Finally we translated themmanually into Spanish.In order to carry out an evaluation starting fromcorrect Basque NEs, although the NEs were au-tomatically extracted from the corpus, we verifiedthat all the entities were correctly identified.
Be-cause if the original entity was not a correct ex-pression, the translation system could not get a4One expert has revised adjective and nouns in general,while the other one has only treated proper noun pairscorrect translation.4 Systems?
DevelopmentAs we have mentioned before, we have done twodifferent experiments in order to get a Basque-Spanish NE translation tool.
For both trials wehave used bilingual dictionaries and grammars totranslate and transliterate entity elements, respec-tively.
But the methodologies used to implementeach transliteration grammar are different: on theone hand, we have used Basque linguistic knowl-edge to develop the grammar; on the other hand,we have defined a language-independent grammarbased on edition distance.Those dictionaries and grammars have beenused in order to obtain translation proposals foreach entity element.
But another methodology isneeded for the system to propose the translation ofwhole entities.
For the system based on linguisticinformation, a specific arranging rule set has beenapplied getting a candidate list.
In order to decidewhich is the most suitable one, we have created aranked list based on a simple web count.For the language-independent system a moresimple methodology has been applied.
We havegenerated all the possible candidate combinations,considering that every element can appear at anyposition in the entity.
Then, a comparable corpushas been used in order to decide which is the mostprobable candidate.Now we will present the design of each experi-ment in detail.4.1 Linguistic ToolWe can see the pseudo-code of the linguistic toolat Figure 1.Figure 1: Linguistic ToolThe linguistic tool, first tries to obtain a transla-tion proposal for each entity element using bilin-gual dictionaries.
If no candidate is obtained from3that search, the transliteration grammar is applied.Once the system has obtained at least one proposalfor each element, the arranging grammar is ap-plied, and finally, the resultant entire entity pro-posals are ranked based on their occurrence on theweb.4.1.1 TransliterationReviewing the extended list of words fromEDBL (a Basque Lexical Data-base) we have ob-tained 24 common phonologic/spelling transfor-mations, some of which depend on others, and canusually be used together, although not always.
Wehave implemented these 24 transformations usingthe XFST (Beesley and Karttunen, 2003) tool andwe have defined 30 rules.
These rules have beenordered in such a way that rules with possible in-teractions are firstly applied and then the rest ofthem.
This way we have avoided interaction prob-lems.For instance, lets say that we want to translateKolonbia into Colombia and that our grammar hasthe following two simple transformation rules: nb?
mb and b ?
v. If we apply the first rule andthen the second one, the candidate we will obtainis Colomvia, and this is not the correct translation.However, if we do not allow to apply the secondrule after the nb ?
mb transformation, the gram-mar will propose the following candidates: Colon-via and Colombia.
So it would generate bad formsbut the correct forms too.We can conclude from this fact that it is neces-sary to apply the rules in a given order.The possible combinations of rules are so widethat it causes an overgeneration of candidates.
Toavoid working with such a big number of can-didates in the following steps, we have decidedto rank and select candidates using some kind ofmeasure.We have estimated rules probabilities using thebilingual dictionary Elhuyar 2000.
We have sim-ply apply all possible rule combinations on everyBasque word in the dictionary, and measured thenormalized frequency of each rule and each rulepair.
Thus, translation proposals are attached aprobability based on the probability of a rule be-ing applied, and only the most probable ones areproposed for the following steps.4.1.2 Entire Entity ConstructionAt this point, we have N translation candidatesfor each input entity element at the most, and theyhave been obtained applying the grammar or fromthe dictionary search.
Our next goal is to createentire entity translation proposals combining allthese candidates.
But some words features, suchas gender and number, must be considered andtreated beforehand.The number of an entity element will be re-flected in the whole entity.
Let?s say, for instance,translate the organization name Nazio Batuak5.The translation proposals from the previous mod-ules for these two words are Nacio?n (for Nazio)and Unida (for Batuak).
If we do not consider thatthe corresponding Basque word of the Unida ele-ment is in the plural form, then the whole transla-tion candidate will not be correct.
In this case, wewill need to pluralize the corresponding Spanishwords.Unlike Spanish, Basque has no morphologicalgender.
This means that for some Basque wordsthe generation of both male and female form is re-quired.
The word idazkari, for example, has nomorphological gender, and it has two correspond-ing Spanish words: the masculine secretario andthe feminine secretaria.
If we search for idazkarion the bilingual dictionary, we will only obtain themasculine form, but the feminine form is neededfor some entities , as it is the case with Janet RenoIdazkaria6 .
Since Janet Reno is a woman?s propername, the correct translation of Idazkaria wouldbe Secretaria.
So before constructing the entireentity translation, both male and female formshave been generated for each element.The simplest entities to construct are the oneswhose elements keep the same order in both theBasque and the Spanish forms.
Person names usu-ally follow this pattern.However, there are some translations that arenot as regular and easy to translate as the pre-vious ones.
Suppose that we want to translatethe Basque entity Lomeko Bake Akordio7 into theSpanish form Acuerdo de Paz de Lome.
After ap-plying grammar and bilingual dictionaries, we ob-tain the following translated elements (in order tosimplify the explanation, we have assumed that thesystem will only return one translation candidateper element): Lome Acuerdo and Paz.
As you cansee, if we do not arrange those elements, the pro-posal will not be the appropriate Spanish transla-5United Nations6Secretary Janet Reno7Lome Peace Agreement4tion.An expert?s manual work has been carried out inorder to define the element arranging needed whenturning from one language to the other.
The mor-phosyntactic information of the Basque entity el-ements (such as PoS, declension, and so on) hasbeen used in this task.Using this manual work, we have defined 10element-arranging rules using the XFST tool.
Inthe example above, it is clear that some element-arranging rules are needed in order to obtain thecorrect translation.
Let?s see how our grammar?srules arranges those elements.When the system starts arranging the LomeAcuerdo and Paz Spanish words to get the correcttranslation for the Basque named entity LomekoBake Akordio it starts from the right to the left us-ing the Basque elements?
morphosyntactic infor-mation.
So it will start arranging the translatedelements for Bake Akordio from right to left.
Bothforms are common nouns with no declension case.Looking at the grammar the system will find a rulefor this structure that switches position of the el-ements and inserts the preposition de in between.So the partial translation would be Acuerdo de Paz.The next step is to find the correct position for thetranslation of Lomeko, which is a location namedeclined in genitive.
There is a rule in the gram-mar, that places the elements declined in genitiveat the end of the partial entity and adds the preposi-tion de before this element.
So, the system will ap-ply that rule, obtaining the Spanish translation ofthe whole entity Acuerdo de Paz de Lome, whichis the correct form.4.1.3 Web SearchAs we have explained, we combine at the mostthe N translation candidates per entity elementswith each other using the corresponding arrang-ing rule to get the translation of the whole entity.So, at the most we will obtain NxN entity transla-tion proposals.
In order to know which candidateis the correct one, the tool makes a web search, butas the number of candidates is so high, we use thesame candidate selection technique applied previ-ously for element selection.This time we will use elements probability in or-der to obtain a measured proposal list.
The x can-didates with the highest probability are searchedand ranked in a final candidate list of translatedentities.In our experiments, we have used the GoogleAPI to consult the web.
Searching entities inGoogle has the advantage of getting the most com-mon forms for entities in any type of document.But if you prefer to get a higher precision (ratherthan a good recall), you can obtain a higher cer-tainty rate by making a specialized search in theweb.
For those specialized searches we have usedWikipedia, a free encyclopedia written collabora-tively by many of its readers in many languages.4.2 Language Independent ToolSince creating transformation rules for every lan-guage pairs is not always a viable task, we have de-signed a general transformation grammar, whichfits well for most language pairs that use the samealphabetical system.
All we need is a written cor-pus for each language and a bilingual dictionary.Figure 2: Language Independent ToolWe have constructed a NE translation tool basedon comparable corpora using that general gram-mar.
As you can see in Figure 2, the systemfinds Basque translation proposals for entity ele-ments applying the pseudo-transliteration module.Once it gets at least one translation candidate foreach element, it applies the whole entity construc-tion module obtaining all the possible whole entitycandidates.
Finally, it searches each candidate inthe corresponding comparable corpus and returnsa ranked candidate list based on that search, in or-der to obtain the correct translation form.4.2.1 Pseudo-transliteration moduleThe pseudo-transliteration module has twomain sources: an edition distance (Kukich, 1992)grammar and a Spanish lexicon.The edition distance grammar is composed ofthree main rules:1. a character can be replaced in a word2.
a character can disappear from a word3.
a new character can be inserted in a word5There is no specific rule in the grammar forswitching adjacent characters, because we cansimulate that transformation just combining thedeleting and inserting rules mentioned above.Since each rule can be applied n times for eachword, the set of all translated words that we ob-tain, applying rules independently and combiningthem, is too extent.In order to reduce the output proposal-set, wehave combined the grammar with a Spanish lex-icon, and we have restricted the transformationrules to two applications.
So words with more thantwo transformations have been avoided.
Thus,when the system applies the resultant automa-ton of this combination, only the Spanish wordsthat can be obtained with a maximum of twotransformations would be proposed as pseudo-transliterations of a Basque entity element.The Spanish lexicon has been constructed withall the words of EFE 2002 (the Spanish corpus ofthe 2002 year) and the bilingual dictionary Elhu-yar 2000.
And as we have considered this cor-pus as a comparable corpus with regard to the Eu-skaldunon Egunkaria 2002, Basque corpus ver-sion, we assume that most of the Basque wordswould have their corresponding translation in theSpanish set.However, there are some words that do nothave their corresponding translation at EFE 2002,or their translation cannot be obtained applyingonly two transformations.
In order to obtaintheir translations in a different way, we have usedthe Basque-Spanish Elhuyar 2000 bilingual dic-tionary.
To be precise, we have converted thebilingual dictionary into an automaton, and wecombined it with the resultant automaton obtainedfrom applying the transliteration grammar in theSpanish lexicon.In this way the system is able to translate notonly the transliterated words in EFE 2002 corpus,but also, the words that cannot be translated us-ing transformation knowledge and that need infor-mation from a bilingual dictionary, such as ?Er-akunde?
vs. ?Organizacio?n?8 .4.2.2 Entire Entity ConstructionSince we want to build a language independentsystem that works just having two different lan-guage data-sets, we cannot use any linguistic fea-ture for arranging entity elements and getting the8Organizationcorrect whole translated entity.We might use many approaches to arrange ele-ments, but we have chosen the simplest one: com-bining each proposed element with the rest, con-sidering that each proposal can appear in any po-sition within the entity.
Thus, the system will re-turn a large list of candidates, but we have ensuredthat it will include the correct one, when the in-dependent translation of all the elements has beencorrectly done.Although in some cases prepositions and arti-cles are needed to obtain the correct Spanish form,the translation candidates for the whole entity willnot contain any element apart from the translatedwords of the original entity.
So, in the followingstep the lack of these elements will be taken intoaccount.4.2.3 Comparable Corpus SearchOnce the system has calculated all possibletranslation candidates for the whole entity , thefollowing step is to select the most suitable pro-posal.
For that purpose, we have used the web inthe linguistic tool.
But this time, we have madeused of the data-set in the Spanish-news articles,in which entities were tagged.
This set is smallerand permits faster searching; furthermore, sinceBasque and Spanish-sets are comparable, the cor-rect translation form is expected to occur in thissmaller corpus, so it is very probable that the sys-tem will propose us the right translation.Therefore, every translation proposal will besearched in the Spanish data-set and will be po-sitioned at the ranked list according to their fre-quency.
Thus, the most repeated entities in thecorpus would appear on the top of the list.4.2.4 Combining web and comparable corpusrankingsBoth Euskaldunon Egunkaria 2002 and EFE2002 data-sets are 2002 year news-sets, and a lotof named entities are due to occur in both sets.
Butsince they are articles taken from newspaper ofdifferent countries, there may be some non-sharednamed entities.When the system finds these special entities inthe Spanish comparable corpus, it is very probablethat it will find none of the candidates, and so, thelist will not be arranged.To avoid that random list ranking, when alltranslation candidates have a very low frequency,we propose to use the web to do a better rank-6ing.
As we will present below, this optional secondranking step improves final results.5 ExperimentsAs we have mentioned before, we have first ex-tracted a set of 180 person, location and organi-zation name-pairs from Euskaldunon Egunkaria2002 newspaper and then we have translated themmanually.We have used three evaluation measures topresent the result of all the experiments:?
Precision = correctly translated NEsTranslated NEs?
Recall = correctly translated NEsAll NEs?
F ?
score = 2?Precision?RecallPrecision+RecallFor the evaluation of the linguistic tool, we haveused a parameter (x in the tables) which deter-mines how many translation candidates will beused in each module at the most.
This threshold isnecessary since the output of both transliterationand arranging grammar is too big to work with inthe next modules.The fr-min parameter in the tables specifies howoften a candidate must occur in a data-set to beconsidered a likely NE translation proposal.fr.
min ?
x Precision Recall F-score10 ?
1 73.96% 69.44% 71.63%100 ?
1 75.75% 69.44% 72.25%250 ?
1 78.71% 67.77% 72.83%500 ?
1 79.86% 61.66% 69.59%10 ?
3 79.29% 74.44% 76.79%100 ?
3 80.6% 73.88% 77.09%250 ?
3 83.87% 72.22% 77.61%500 ?
3 83.45% 64.4% 72.7%10 ?
10 79.88% 75% 77.36%100 ?
10 81.21% 74.44% 77.68%250 ?
10 84.52% 72.78% 78.21%500 ?
10 84.17% 65% 73.35%Table 1: Linguistic knowledge + GoogleTable 1 presents the results obtained applyingthe linguistic tool, and searching its proposals inGoogle.
If we observe these results taking intoaccount the values of the x parameter, it seemsthat the bigger the x value is, the better results weget.
But note that the best improvement is obtainedwhen we use the maximum of 3 candidate insteadof using just 1.
We improved the system perfor-mance in 5%.
While using 10 candidates, the per-formance increases in less than 1% compared tothe results obtained when x value is 3.Regarding to the fr-min parameter, it seems thatthe best value is around 250.
Moreover, duplicat-ing this value, performance decreases.
So we cansay that when fr-min value exceeds 250, the sys-tem performs worse.For next comparatives, we will take the re-sults given by the experiments using the values fr-min=250 and x=1 as reference.When we search Wikipedia instead of Google(see Table 2), the system?s recall decreases from69.44% to 66.67%.
This time the only search-ing restriction is that the candidate occurs at leastonce, and not n times.
This is because the data-setoffered by Wikipedia is significantly smaller thanthe one given by Google.
Moreover, precision re-mains similar.
So although it is a smaller data-set,Wikipedia seems to be similar to Google as far asthe information significance of terms is concerned.fr.
min ?
x Precision Recall F-score1 ?
1 81.63% 66.67% 73.4%1 ?
3 83.67% 68.33% 75.23%1 ?
10 84.35% 68.88% 75.83%Table 2: Linguistic knowledge + WikipediaWhen we use the comparable corpus instead ofthe web, the linguistic tool performs a consider-able enhancement in precision, a 13% improve-ment, but gets worse coverage.
On the other hand,the language-independent tool achieves similar re-sults with regard to the linguistic tool searchingin the web.
So the language-independent toolseems to be a good alternative for dealing with NEtranslation without no exhaustive linguistic work.Those results are detailed in Table 3.System Precision Recall F-scoreLing.
Tool 91.85% 68.8% 78.67%Lang.
Indep.
83.3% 72.2% 77.35%Table 3: Results using comparable corpusFinally, we have tried searching the proposalsfrom the linguistic tool first in the comparablecorpus.
When no successful candidate is foundin it, the system tries searching the web, in bothGoogle and Wikipedia (See Table 4).
In both ex-periments, precision is significantly lower than theone obtained when the system proposes candidatesfound in the comparable corpus, without no fur-ther search.
However, the coverage increases in al-most 5% in the trials carried out both with Googleand Wikipedia.
Therefore, the system?s F-score7remains similar.
Note that this time instead of per-forming better when Google is used, the searchesdone in Wikipedia give better results.
Further-more, the best results are obtained when combin-ing comparable corpus and Wikipedia searches inthe Linguistic tool.Web search Precision Recall F-scoreGoogle, 250 81.36% 73.3% 77.12%Wikipedia, 1 84.21% 73.3% 78.38%Table 4: Ling.
Tool + Comp.
corpus + Web search6 Conclusions and Further WorksWe have presented an approach for the design anddevelopment of an entity translation system fromBasque to Spanish and the different techniquesand resources we have used for this work.On the one hand, we have combined bilingualdictionaries with a phonologic/spelling grammarfor the entity elements?
translation; on the otherhand, we have applied a language-independentgrammar based on edition distance.
Both com-binations perform well, and although the lin-guistic tool obtains better results, the language-independent grammar may be very useful for otherexperiments carried out with language-pairs othersthan Basque and Spanish.Because of the differences of the syntacticalstructures of Basque and Spanish, it is necessary toarrange the entity elements for the correct transla-tion of whole NEs; in particular, for those entitieswith more than one element.
For that purpose, wehave used two different techniques: probabilisticrules and a simple combination method (all candi-dates combined with all).Finally, we have applied different resources andtechniques for the selection of the best candidates.On the one hand, we have tried searching the web(Google and Wikipedia); on the other hand, wehave used a comparable Basque-Spanish corpus.We have verified, that although Google is a biggerdata-set, the significance of the information for NEtranslation task is similar to the information givenby Wikipedia.All the experiments carried out with compara-ble corpus have performed very well, and the bestresults have been obtained when combining it withWikipedia.
So developing a NE translation systembased on comparable information have proved tobe a good way to build a robust system.However, some modules can be improved.Firstly, the methods to rank and select candidatesare very simple, so if we use more complex ones,the number of candidates for the following mod-ules would decrease considerably, and so, the sys-tem?s final selection would be easier and more pre-cise.Regarding to the use of the web, actually wehave only used Google and Wikipedia.
Searchesin Wikipedia are more precise than the ones madein Google and so the information they offer canbe considered complementary.
Furthermore, wecan obtain very valuable information for other en-tity processes.
For instance, since Wikipedia isa topic-classified encyclopedia, when you do anentity search, you can get information about thekind of documents in which the entity can occur;in other words, which is the most usual topic forit to occur in.
Besides, that classification categorycan be very useful for entity disambiguation too.With all the improvements presented so far, wehope to get a stronger entity name translation sys-tem in the future.ReferencesAduriz I., Alegria I., Arriola J.M., Ezeiza N., Urizar R.1998.
Combining Stochastic and Rule-Based Meth-ods for Disambiguation in Agglutinative Languages.Proceedings of COLING-ACL?98.Alegria I., Balza I., Ezeiza N., Fernandez I., Urizar R.2003.
Named Entity Recognition and Classificationfor texts in Basque.
Proceedings of JOTRI II.Al-Onaizan Y., Knight K. 2002.
TranslatingNamed Entities Using Monolingual and BilingualResources.
Proceedings of ACL 2002.Al-Onaizan Y., Knight K. 2002.
Machine Translitera-tion of Names in Arabic Text.
Proceedings of ACL2002.Beesley K.R., Karttunen L. 2003.
Finite State Mor-phology.
CSLIChen H., Yang C., Lin Y.
2003.
Learning Formulationand Transformation Rules for Multilingual NamedEntities.
Proceedings of the ACL 2003 Workshopon Multilingual and Mixed-language Named EntityRecognition.Kukich K., 1992.
Techniques for automatically cor-recting word in text.
ACM Computing Surveys Vol.24 No.
4 377-439Moore R. C., 2003.
Learning Translations of Named-Entity Phrases from Parallel Corpora.
Proceedingsof EACL 2003.8
