Proceedings of the Workshop on Linguistic Distances, pages 8?15,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsSimilarity judgments: philosophical, psychological and mathematicalinvestigationsClaude St-JacquesInstitute for Information TechnologyNational Research Council of CanadaGatineau, QC, CanadaClaude.St-Jacques@nrc.gc.caCaroline Barri?reInstitute for Information TechnologyNational Research Council of CanadaGatineau, QC, CanadaCaroline.Barriere@nrc.gc.caAbstractThis study investigates similarity judg-ments from two angles.
First, we look atmodels suggested in the psychology andphilosophy literature which capture theessence of concept similarity evaluationfor humans.
Second, we analyze theproperties of many metrics which simu-late such evaluation capabilities.
The firstangle reveals that non-experts can judgesimilarity and that their judgments neednot be based on predefined traits.
We usesuch conclusions to inform us on howgold standards for word sense disam-biguation tasks could be established.From the second angle, we conclude thatmore attention should be paid to metricproperties before assigning them to per-form a particular task.1 IntroductionThe task of word sense disambiguation hasbeen at the heart of Natural Language Processing(NLP) for many years.
Recent Senseval compe-titions (Mihalcea and Edmonds, 2004; Preiss andYarowsky, 2001) have stimulated the develop-ment of algorithms to tackle different lexical dis-ambiguation tasks.
Such tasks require at theircore a judgment of similarity as a word?s multi-ple definitions and its contexts of occurrences arecompared.
Similarity judgment algorithms comein many different forms.
One angle of this arti-cle is to analyze the assumptions behind suchsimilarity metrics by looking at different sharedor non-shared properties.
Among the interestingproperties we note symmetry and transitivity,which are fundamental to the understanding ofsimilarity.
This angle is investigated in Section 4and 5, looking respectively at two broad classesof mathematical models of similarity and thenmore closely at different similarity metrics.As Senseval and other similar competitionsneed a gold standard for evaluating the compet-ing systems, the second angle of our researchlooks into literature in philosophy and psychol-ogy to gain insight on the human capability inperforming a similarity judgment.
From the firstdiscipline explored in Section 2, we discover thatphilosophers have divergent views on conceptidentification, ranging from scientific definitionsto human perception of concepts.
From the sec-ond discipline, explored in Section 3, we dis-cover different psychological models for conceptidentification and implicitly concept comparison,this time ranging from continuous concepts beingpositioned in multi-dimensional spaces to con-crete concepts being grasped as entities.The two angles (metrics and humans) con-verge in the conclusion of Section 6 with generalobservations and future work.2 Philosophical evidenceChildren have a natural eagerness to recognizeregularities in the world and to mimic the behav-ior of competent members of their linguisticcommunity.
It is in these words that Wittgenstein(1980) simply expresses how infants acquire thecommunity?s language.
What underlies the ac-tivities surrounding a common use of language issimilar to our usage of words to express some-thing: ?Consider for example the proceedingsthat we call games.
I mean board-games, card-games, ball-games, Olympic games, and so on.What is common to them all??
(Wittgenstein,1968: 66).
Wittgenstein answers that these ex-pressions are characterized by similarities hecalls family resemblances.8Given that a dictionary?s purpose is to defineconcepts, we could hope to see such family re-semblances among its definitions.
Contrarily tothis intuition, Table 1 shows definitions and ex-amples for a few senses of game in Wordnet1,from which resemblance cannot be found interms of common words in the definitions or ex-amples.
Nevertheless, humans are able to givedifferent judgments of similarity between differ-ent senses of the word game.
For example, simi-larity between sense 1 and sense 3 is intuitivelylarger than between sense 1 and sense 4.Table 1: Some senses of game in WordnetDefinition + Example1 A single play of a sport or other contest.
Thegame lasted two hours.2 A contest with rules to determine a winner.
Youneed four people to play this game.3 The game equipment needed in order to play aparticular game.
The child received severalgames for his birthday.4 Your occupation or line of work He's in theplumbing game.5 A secret scheme to do something (especiallysomething underhand or illegal).
[?]
I sawthrough his little game from the start.Before being tempted to call up gigabytes ofcorpus evidence data and computational strengthto help us identify the family of resemblanceemerging here, let us further look at the nature ofthat notion from a philosophical point of view.Possible senses of individual things could betraced back to Aristotle?s work and identified?without qualification?
as the primary substanceof a thing (Cassam, 1986).
What accounts for thesubstance of an object, for Aristotle, was thething itself, namely its essence.
Taking a slightlydifferent view on the notion of family of objects,Putnam (1977) instead pursues a quest for natu-ral kinds and according to him, the distinguish-ing characteristics that ?hold together?
naturalkinds are the ?core facts [?]
conveying the useof words of that kind?
(Putnam, 1977: 118).
Put-nam disagrees with any analytical approachessustaining that the meaning of a word X is givenby a conjunction of properties P = {P1, P2,?
Pn}in such a way that P is the essence of X. Theproblem is that a ?natural kind may have abnor-mal members?
(Putnam, 1977: 103).
For instance,normal lemons have a yellow peel but let?s sup-pose in accordance with Putnam, that a new en-vironmental condition makes lemon peel become1See http://wordnet.princeton.edu/blue.
An analytical view will be unable to statewhich one amongst the yellow or the blue ones isnow the normal member of the natural class oflemons.
Putnam rather relies on a ?scientific the-ory construction?
to define what an object ofnatural kind is, and therefore, does not see thatdictionaries ?are cluttered up [?]
with pieces ofempirical information?
(Putnam, 1977: 118) as adefect to convey core facts about a natural class.In contrast to Putnam, Fodor (1998) is a viru-lent opponent to a mind-independent similaritysemantics subject to scientific discoveries.
Withhis ostentatious doorknob example, Fodor showsthat there is not any natural kind, hidden essenceor peculiar structure that makes a doorknob adoorknob.
?No doubt, some engineer might con-struct a counter-example?a mindless doorknobdetector; and we might even come to rely onsuch a thing when groping for a doorknob in thedark?
(Fodor, 1998: 147).
However, the con-struct will have to be done on what strikes us asdoorknobhood or satisfying the doorknob stereo-type, i.e.
?the gadget would have to be calibratedto us since there is nothing else in nature thatresponds selectively to doorknobs?
(Fodor, 1998:147).
According to Fodor, our capacity to ac-quire the concept of doorknob involves a similar-ity metric, and it is the human innate capacity todetermine the concepts similar to doorknob thatallow the characterization of doorknobhood.Therefore, Fodor states that the meaning of con-cepts is mind-dependent and that individuation isnot intractable since members of a languagecommunity, although experiencing diverse formsof a concept will tend to acquire similar stereo-types of such a concept.This brief exploration into philosophical ap-proaches for concept representation and delimita-tion can inform us on the establishment of a goldstandard by humans for the word sense disam-biguation (WSD) task.
In fact, the adherence toone model rather than another has an impact onwho should be performing the evaluation2.
Sen-seval-2 was in line with Putnam?s view of ?divi-sion of linguistic labour?
by relying on lexicog-raphers?
judgments to build a gold standard (Kil-garrif, 1998).
On the other hand, Senseval-3 col-lected data via Open-Mind Initiative3, which wasmuch more in line with Fodor?s view that anycommon people can use their own similarity2The evaluation consists in performing sense tagging ofword occurrences in context.3See http://www.openmind.org/, a web site where anyonecan perform the sense tagging ?games?.9metric to disambiguate polysemous terms.
Inter-estingly, a recent empirical study (Murray andGreen 2004) showed how judgments by ordinarypeople were consistent among themselves butdifferent from the one of lexicographers.
It isimportant to decide who the best judges are; adecision which can certainly be based on theforeseen application, but also, as we suggest here,on some theoretical grounds.3 Psychological EvidenceWe pursue our quest for insights in theestablishment of gold standards by humans forthe WSD task, now trying to answer the ?how?question rather then the ?who?
question.
Indeed,Fodor?s view might influence us in deciding thatnon-experts can perform similarity judgments,but this does not tell us how these judgmentsshould be performed.
Different psychologicalmodels will give possible answers.
In fact,similarity judgments have been largely studiedby experimental psychologists and distinctivetheories give some evidence about the existenceof a human internal cognitive mechanism forsuch judgments.
In this section, we present threeapproaches: subjective scaling and objectivescaling (Voinov, 2002), and semantic differential(Osgood et al 1957).3.1 Subjective ScalingIn subjective scaling (Voinov, 2002), thesubjective human judgment is considered as aconvenient raw material to make comparisonbetween empirical studies of similarity.
Subjectsare asked to point out the ?similarities among nobjects of interest ?
whether concepts, persons,traits, symptoms, cultures or species?
(Shepard,1974: 373).
Then the similarity judgments arerepresented in an n ?
n matrix of objects by amultidimensional scaling (MDS) of the distancebetween each object.
Equation 1 shows theevaluation of similarity, where ),( jkik xxd standsfor the distance between objects ix and jx   onstimulus (dimension) k and kw  is thepsychological salience of that stimulus k:( ) )),((,1 ==mkjkikkji xxdwxxD .
(1)Shepard?s MDS theory assumes that amonotonic transformation should be done from anonmetric psychological salience of a stimulus toa metric space model.
By definition, the resultingmetric function over a set X should fullfill thefollowing conditions:Xzyx ??
,, :1.
0),(),( =?
xxdyxd  (minimality),2.
),(),( xydyxd =  (symmetry),3.
),(),(),( yzdzxdyxd +?
(triangle ineq.
).Accordingly to Shepard (1974), the distance inequation (1) can be computed with differentmetrics.
Some of these metrics are given inLebart and Rajman (2000).
The Euclidean metricis the best known:2112)(),( ?= =mkjkikkjiE xxwxxd .
(2)The city block metric is another one:=?=mkjkikkjiC xxwxxd1),( .
(3)Another yet is the Minkowski metric:( )nmknjkikkjiN xxwxxd11)(),(=?= .
(4)There is a main concern with the MDS model.Tversky (1977) criticized the adequacy of themetric distance functions as he showed that thethree conditions of minimality, symmetry andtriangle inequality are sometimes empiricallyviolated.
For instance, Tversky and Gati showedempirically that assessment of the similaritybetween pairs of countries was asymetric whenthey asked  for ?the degree to which Red Chinais similar to North Korea?
(1978: 87) and in thereverse order, i.e.
similarity between NorthKorea and Red China.3.2 Objective ScalingThe second approach is called objective scalingby Voinov ?though this term is not widely ac-cepted?
(Voinov, 2002).
According to him, theobjectivity of the method comes from the factthat similarity measures are calculated from theratio of objective features that describe objectsunder analysis.
So, subjects are asked to makequalitative judgments on common or distinctivefeatures of objects and the comparison is thenmade by any distance axioms.
Tversky?s (1977)contrast model (CM) is the best known formal-ization of this approach.
In his model, the meas-ure of similarity is computed by:)()(),( BAfBAfBAS ?
?= ??
)( ABf ??
?
(5)10where )( BAf   represents a function of thecommon features of both entities A and B,)( BAf ?
is the function of the features belong-ing to A but not B, )( ABf ?
is the function ofthe features belonging to B but not A and???
,, are their respective weighting parame-ters.
Equation (5) is the matching axiom of theCM.
A second fundamental property of thatmodel is given by the axiom of monotonicity:),(),( CASBAS ?
(6)If BACA  ?
, ,CABA ???
andACAB ???
,  then (6) is satisfied.
With thesetwo axioms (5-6), Tversky (1977) defined thebasis of what he called the matching functionusing the theoretical notion of feature sets ratherthen the geometric concept of similarity distance.Interesting empirical studies followed this re-search on CM and aimed at finding the correla-tion between human judgments of similarity anddifference.
Although some results show a corre-lation between these judgments, there is limita-tion to their complementarity: ?the relativeweights of the common and distinctive featuresvary with the nature of the task and support thefocusing hypothesis that people attend more tothe common features in judgments of similaritythan in judgments of the difference?
(Tverski andGati, 1978: 84).
Later on, Medin et al (1990)also reported cases when judgments of similarityand difference are not inverses: first, when enti-ties differ in their number of features, and secondwhen similarity/difference judgments involvedistinction of both attributes and relations.
?Al-though sameness judgments are typically de-scribed as more global or non-analytic than dif-ference judgments, an alternative possibility isthat they focus on relations rather than attributes?
(Medin et al, 1990: 68).3.3 Semantic DifferentialOne standard psycholinguistic method tomeasure the similarity of meaning combines theuse of subjective scaling transposed in asemantic space.
One well-known method isSemantic Differential (SD) developed by Osgoodet al (1957).The SD methodology measures the meaningsthat individual subjects grant to words andconcepts according to a series of factor analyses.These factor analyses are bipolar adjectives putat each end of a Likert scale (Likert, 1932)devised to rate the individual reaction to thecontrasted stimulus.
For instance, the SD of aconcept can be rated with two stimuli ofgoodness and temperature:BadGood3:2:1:0:1:2:3?HotCold3:2:1:0:1:2:3?If the subject feels that the observed concept isneutral with regards to the polar terms, hischeck-mark should be at the position 0.
In ourexample, the mark on the good-bad scale beingat the 1 on the left side of the neutral point 0, thejudgment means slighthy good.
Positions 2 and 3on that same side would be respectively quitegood and extremely good.
A similar analysisapplies for the cold-hot scale shown.The theoretical background of thatmethodology, which tries to standardize acrosssubjects the meaning of the same linguisticstimulus, relies on psychological research onsynestesia.
Simply explained, synestesia issimilar to a double reaction to a stimulus.
Forexample, when presented with images ofconcepts, subjects do not only have aspontaneous reaction to the images, but they arealso able to characterize the associated conceptin terms of almost any bipolar adjective pairs(hot-cold, pleasant-unpleasant, simple-complex,vague-precise, dull-sharp, static-dynamic, sweet-bitter, emotional-rational, etc.).
According toOsgood et al ?the imagery found in synesthesiais intimately tied up with language metaphor, andboth represent semantic relations?
(1957: 23).In SD, bipolar adjectives used in successioncan mediate a generalization to the meaning of asign, as uncertainty on each scale is reduced withthe successive process of elicitation.
Bypostulating representation in a semantic space,each orthogonal axis of selection produces asemantic differentiation when the subjects ratethe semantic alternatives on a bipolar scale.Although that space could be multidimensional,empirical studies (Osgood et al, 1957) on factoranalysis showed stability and relative importanceof three particular dimensions labeled asEvaluation, Potency, and Activity (EPA).
Werefer the reader to Osgood et al (1957) forfurther explanation on these EPA dimensions.3.4 WSD and human judgmentsTable 2 emphasizes commonalities and differ-ences between the three psychological modelsexplored.11Table 2 ?
Psychological ModelsContinuous Prede-fined traitsSimilarity/DifferenceMDS Yes Yes NoCM No Yes YesSD No No PossibleIn Table 2, we show that both MDS (Shepard,1974) and CM (Tversky, 1977) rely on a set ofpredefined traits.
This is a major problem, as itleads to the necessity of defining in advance sucha set of traits on which to judge similarity be-tween objects.
On the other hand, SD (Osgoodet al 1957), although using a few bipolar scalesfor positioning concepts, argues that these scalesare not concept-dependent, but rather they can beused for grasping the meaning of all concepts.
Asecond major difference highlighted in Table 2 isthat MDS is the only approach looking at con-tinuous perceptual dimensions of stimulus, con-trarily to CM in which the scaling procedes withdiscrete conceptual traits, and even more in op-position to SD which considers entities as primi-tives.
Finally, Table 2 shows the interesting ob-servation brought forth by Tversky and later em-pirical studies of Medin et al (1980) of the non-equivalence between the notion of similarity anddifference.Coming back to the question of ?how?
humanevaluation could be performed to provide a goldstandard for the WSD task, considering the prosand cons of the different models lead us to sug-gest a particular strategy of sense attribution.Combining the similarity/difference of Tverskywith the successive elucidation of Osgood et al,two bipolar Likert scales could be used to delimita similarity concept: a resembling axis and a con-trasting axis.
In this approach, the similarity con-cept still stays general, avoiding the problems offinding specific traits for each instance on whichto have a judgment.Already in the empirical studies of Murray andGreen (2004), a Likert scale is used, but on an?applying?
axis.
Subjects are asked for eachdefinition of a word to decide whether it ?appliesperfectly?
or rather ?barely applies?
to a contextcontaining the word.
The choice of such an axishas limitations in its applicability for mappingsenses on examples.
More general resemblingand contrasting axis would allow for similarityjudgments on any statements whether they aretwo sense definitions, two examples or a sensedefinition with an example.4 Mathematical Models of SimilarityLogic and mathematics are extremely prolificin similarity measurement models.
According toDubois et al(1997), they are used for cognitivetasks like classification, case-based reasoningand interpolation.
In the present study, we re-strict our investigation to the classification taskas representative on the unsupervised WSD task.The other approaches are inferential strategies,using already solved problems to extrapolate orinterpolate solutions to new problems.
Thosewould be appropriate for WSD in a supervisedcontext (provided training data), but due to spaceconstraints, we postpone discussion of thosemodels to a later study.
Our present analysis di-vides classification models into two criteria: thecardinality of sets and the proximity-based simi-larity measures.4.1 Cardinality of setsIn line with De Baets et al (2001), similaritymeasures can be investigated under a rationalcardinality-based criterion of sets.
In an exten-sive study of 28 similarity measures for ordinarysets, this research showed that measures can beclassified on the basis of only a few properties.They proposed at first to build the class of cardi-nality-based similarity measures from one ge-neric formula:YXYXYXYXYXYXYXYXzyxwzyxwYXS,,,,,,,,''''),( ???????
?++++++= ,(8)where { })(#),(#min,XYYXYX ??=?
,{ })(#),(#max,XYYXYX ??=?
,)(#,YXYX  =?
and cYX YX )(#, =?
, andall w , x , y , z , 'w , 'x , 'y , 'z  { }1,0?
.
Itfollows that )(# YX   is the number of couples(1,1) and YX ?
denotes the sets difference)()( cYXYX =?
.The classification of these 28 similarity meas-ures (which can all be linked to the general for-mula) becomes possible by borrowing from theframework of fuzzy sets the concepts of T for t-norm (fuzzy intersection) operators and T-equivalence for the property of T-indistinguishability (De Baets et al, 2001).
So, atypical measure M of T-equivalence under theuniverse U  must satisfy the following condi-tions for any (x, y, z) U?
: (i) 1),( =xxM  (re-flexivity); (ii) ),(),( xyMyxM =  (Symmetry);12(iii) ),()),(),,(( zxMzyMyxMT ?
(T-transitivity).All 28 measures show reflexivity and symme-try but they vary on the type of transitivity theyachieve.
In fact, studying boundary andmonotonicity behavior of the different measures,De Baets et al (2001) group them under fourtypes corresponding to four different formulas offuzzy intersections (t-norms): the standard inter-section ),min(),( babaZ = ,  the Lukasiewicz t-norm )1,0max(),( ?+= babaL , the algebraicproduct abbaP =),(  and the drastic intersec-tion abaD (),( =  when 1=b , b  when 1=aand 0  otherwise).
We refer the reader to DeBaets et al (2001) to get the full scope of theirresults.
Accordingly, Jaccard?s coefficient J(equation 9) and Russel-Rao?s coefficient R(equation 10) are both, for example, L-transivive(Lukasiewicz?
type):( )( )YXYXYXSJ  ##),( =                      (9)( )nYXYXSR#),( =     .
(10)On the other hand, the overlapping coefficient O(equation 11) is not even D-transitive, knowingthat D is the lower transitive condition)( ZPLD ???
in the framework:( )( )YXYXYXSO #,#min#),(=  .
(11)4.2 Proximity-basedFollowing our second criterion of classifica-tion, mathematics also uses diverse proximity-based similarity measures.
We subdivide thesemathematical measures into three groups: thedistance model, the probabilistic model, and theangular coefficients.
The first one, the distancemodel, overlaps in part with the subjective scal-ing of similarity as presented in the psychologi-cal approaches (section 3.1).
The mathematicalmodel is the same with a metric of distance),( yxd computed between the objects in a space.Algorithms like formulae (2), (3) and (4) of sec-tion 3.1 are amongst the proximity-based similar-ity measures.Second, the probabilistic model is based onthe statistical analysis of objects and their attrib-utes in a data space.
Lebart & Rajman (2000)gave many examples of that kind of proximitymeasures, such as the Kullback-Leiber distanceKD  between two documents A and B, given theprobability distribution { }npppP ,...,, 21= :???
?=0)log)(log(),(bkak ppbkakbkakK ppppBAD(12)The third mathematical model is also a metricspace model but it uses angular measures be-tween vectors of features to determine the simi-larity between objects.
A well-known measurefrom that group is the cosine-correlation:====nkknkknkkkCyxyxyxS12121),( .
(13)Although conditions applying on proximity-based measures are shortly described in Crossand Sudkamp (2002) and Miyamoto (1990) forfuzzy sets, we are not aware of an extensive re-search such as the one by De Baets et al (2001),presented in section 4.1, for classifying cardinal-ity of sets types.
We make such an attempt in thefollowing section.5 Analysis of similarity metricsIn this section, we perform a classification andanalysis exercise for similarity measure4, possi-bly used for WSD, but more generally used inany task where similarity between words is re-quired.
Table 3 shows the measures classified inthe four categories of the mathematical modelpresented in section 4: measures of cardinality(Card), of distance (Dist), of probability (Prob)and of angle (Ang).We sustain that these groupings can be furtherjustified based on two criteria: the psychologicalmodel of meaning (Table 2) and the typicalproperties of the classes (Table 4).
The first crite-rion refers to the representation of concepts dis-tinguishing between the dense-state and the dis-crete-state5 of concept (meaning) attributes.
Thatpsychological distinction is helpful to categorizesome metrics, like Gotoh, which seems hybrid(Card and Dist).
In such a metric, the penalty forthe gap between two concepts applies on the de-fect of the dense-state, such as for a blurred im-4We use  the list of the following web page: http://www.dcs.shef.ac.uk/~sam/stringmetrics.html#sellers5This differentiation is based on Tenenbaum?s (1996) ideathat MDS better suits continuous perceptual domains andset-theoretic accommodate discrete features like in the CM.13age rather then the absence of the discrete-state,i.e.
of a feature; it is therefore classified in theDist category.Table 3: Classification of Similarity MetricsMetric Card Dist Prob AngHamming distance  XLevenshtein distance  XNeedleman-Wunch  XSmith-Waterman  XGotoh distance  XBlock distance  XMonge Elkan dist.
XJaro distance   XJaro Winkler   XSoundEx distance   XMatching coefficient XDice?s coefficient XJaccard similarity XOverlap coefficient XEuclidean distance  XCosine similarity    XVariational distance   XHellinger distance   XInformation radius   XHarmonic mean   XSkew divergence   XConfusion probability   XTau   XFellegi & Sunters   XTFIDF     XFastA   XBlastP   XMaximal matches   Xq-gram   XUkkonen algorithms   XThe second criterion is a study on sharedproperties for each category of the mathematicalmodel.
Table 4 summarizes the properties usingthe following schema: (m) minimality, (r) reflex-ivity, (s) symmetry, (ti) triangle inequality, (tr)transitivity.Table 4 ?
Typical Properties of Metrics(m) (r) (s) (ti) (tr)Card  Yes Yes  YesDist Yes  Yes Yes PossibleProb  No Possible  YesAng Yes  Yes  YesFrom Table 4, we see for instance that reflex-ivity is a basic property for cardinality measuresbecause we wish to regularly count discrete ob-jects in a set.
On the opposite side, the minimal-ity property is a characteristic of a distancemeasure, since it is noticeable by the displace-ment or the change, for example, in distinctiveimages.
According to Fodor (1998), we say thatstatistical or probabilistic approaches exhibitseveral necessary and sufficient conditions forthe inclusion of elements in the extension of aconcept, but the dominant element, such as thepattern of comparison (in Maximal matches forinstance) is anti-reflexive and asymmetric withthe resulting elements.
However, there is symme-try in the resultant, but there is still anti-reflexivity.We also single out the angular metrics fromdistance measures even though they use a similaranalysis of the qualitative variation of entities.According to Ekman & Sj?berg (1965), a methodusing similarity converted into cosine representa-tion has the advantage to reveal two componentsof percepts, i.e.
the two-dimensional vector is amodeling in magnitude and direction.
Thus, an-gular metrics can be a means used to contrasttwo semantic features of entities.5.1 A closer look at propertiesFinding out that different sets of properties canserve as dividing lines between groups of metricsis interesting in itself, but does not answer thequestion as to which set is more appropriate thanothers.
We do not wish to answer this questionhere as we believe it is application-dependent,but we do wish to emphasize that a questioningshould take place before choosing a particularmeasure.
In fact, for each property, there is anappropriate question that can be asked, as issummarized in Table 5.Table 5 ?
Questioning for Measure SelectionProperty QuestionMinimality Is the minimal distance between objects thedistance of an object with itself?Symmetry Is it true that the distance between x and y isalways the same as the distance between yand x?TriangleInequalityIs it appropriate that a direct distance be-tween x and z is always smaller than a com-posed distance from x to y and y to z?Reflexivity  Is it true that the relation that it holds be-tween an object and itself is always thesame?Transitivity Is it necessarily the case that when x issimilar to y and y is similar to z, that x besimilar to z?For the task of WSD investigated in this paper,we hope to open the debate as to which proper-ties are to be taken into consideration.6 Conclusion and future workThis paper presented some ideas from two anglesof study (human and metrics) into the intricateproblem of similarity judgments.
A larger study14is under way on both angles.
First, we suggested,based on some psychological and philosophicalmodel analysis, a two-axis Osgood-like bench-marking approach for ?ordinary human?
word-sense judgments.
We intend to perform an em-pirical experiment to validate this idea by look-ing at inter-judge agreement.On the algorithm side, although the ap-proaches based on the cardinality of sets are notcentral to WSD, we presented them first as wefind it inspiring to see an effort of classificationon those measures.
We then attempted a some-what more broad classification by emphasizingproperties of different groups of similarity meas-ures: cardinality of sets, distance, probabilisticmeasures and angular metrics.
Although eachgroup has a particular subset of properties, wenoted that all of them share a property of transi-tivity.
This is interestingly different from thepsychological contrast model of Tversky wheredifferences and similarities are measured differ-ently on different criteria.
We think investiga-tions into similarity measures which reproducesuch a non-transitive differentiation approachshould be performed.
We are on that path in ourlarger study.
We also suggest that any proposalof a measure for a task should be preceded by astudy of which properties seem adequate for sucha task.
We conclude by opening up the debatefor the WSD task.ReferencesBernard De Baets, Hans De Meyer and Helga Naes-sens.
2001.
A class of rational cardinality-basedsimilarity measures.
Journal of Computational andApplied Mathematics, 132:51-69.Quassim Cassam.
1986.
Science and Essence.
Phi-losophy, 61:95-107.Valerie V. Cross and Thomas A. Sudkamp.
2002.Similarity and Compatibility in Fuzzy Set Theory.Heidelberg, Germany: Physica-Verlag..Didier Dubois, Henri Prade, Francesc Esteva, PereGarcia and Lluis Godo.
1997.
A Logical Approachto Interpolation Based on Similarity Relations.
In-ternational Journal of Approximate Reasoning,17:1-36.C?sta Ekman and Lennart Sj?berg.
1965.
Scaling.Annual Review of Psychology, 16, 451-474.Jerry A. Fodor.
1998.
Concepts.
Where CognitiveScience Went Wrong.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.Adam Kilgarriff.
1998.
Gold standard datasets forevaluating word sense disambiguation programs.Computer Speech and Language, 12:453-472.Ludovic Lebart and Martin Rajman.
2000.
ComputingSimilarity in R. Dale, H. Moisl & H. Somers eds.Handbook of Natural Language Processing.
NewYork: Marcel Dekker, Inc., 477-505.Rensis Likert.
1932.
A technique for the measurementof attitudes.
Archives of Psychology 140, 5-53.Douglas L. Medin, Robert L. Goldstone and DedreGentner.
1990.
Similarity Involving Attributes andRelations: Judgments of Similarity and Differenceare not Inverses.
Psychological Science, 1(1):64-69Rada Mihalcea and Phil Edmonds.
2004.
Proceedingsof SENSEVAL-3, Association for ComputationalLinguistics Workshop, Barcelona, Spain.Sadaaki Miyamoto.
1990.
Fuzzy Sets in InformationRetrieval and Cluster Analysis.
Dordrecht: KluwerAcademic Publisher.G.
Craig Murray and Rebecca Green.
2004.
Lexicalknowledge and human disagreement on a WSDtask, Computer Speech and Language 18, 209-222.Charles E. Osgood, George J. Suci and Percy H. Tan-nenbaum.
1957.
The measurement of meaning.
Ur-bana: University of Illinois PressJudita Preiss and David Yarowsky (eds).
2001.
Pro-ceedings of SENSEVAL-2, Association for Compu-tational Linguistics Workshop, Toulouse, France.Hilary Putnam.
1977.
Is Semantics Possible?
inStephen P. Schwartz ed.
Naming, Necessity, andNatural Kinds.
Ithaca and London: Cornell Univer-sity Press, 102-118.Roger N. Shepard.
1974.
Representation of structurein similarity data: Problems and prospects.
Psy-chometrika, 39(4):373-421.Joshua B. Tenenbaum.
1996.
Learning the structure ofsimilarity.
In D. S. Touretzky, M. C. Mozer and M.E.
Hasselmo (Eds), Advances in neural informationprocessing systems, (Vol.
8, pp.
3-9), Cambridge,MA: MIT Press.Amos Tversky.
1977.
Features of Similarity.
Psycho-logical Review, 84, 79-98.Amos Tversky and Itamar Gati.
1978.
Studies ofSimilarity in E. Rosch & B.
B. Lloyd eds.
Cogni-tion and Categorization.
New York: John Wiley &Sons, Inc., 79-98.Alexander V. Voinov.
2002.
The Role of SimilarityJudgment in Intuitive Problem Solving and itsModeling in a Sheaf-Theoretic Framework.
Pro-ceedings of the 1st Int.
Conf.
on FSKD?02, 1:753-757.Ludwig Wittgenstein.
1968.
Philosophical Investiga-tions.
Oxford: Basil Blackwell.Ludwig Wittgenstein.
1980.
Remarks on the Philoso-phy of Psychology.
Chicago: University of ChicagoPress; Oxford: Basil Blackwell.15
