Proceedings of the BioNLP Workshop on Linking Natural Language Processing and Biology at HLT-NAACL 06, pages 134?135,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsSummarizing Key Concepts using Citation SentencesAriel S. Schwartz and Marti HearstEECS and SIMSUniversity of California at BerkeleyBerkeley, CA 94720sariel@cs.berkeley.edu, hearst@sims.berkeley.eduCitations have great potential to be a valuable re-source in mining the bioscience literature (Nakov etal., 2004).
The text around citations (or citances)tends to state biological facts with reference to theoriginal papers that discovered them.
The cited factsare typically stated in a more concise way in theciting papers than in the original.
We hypothesizethat in many cases, as time goes by, the citationsentences can more accurately indicate the most im-portant contributions of a paper than its original ab-stract.One can use various NLP tools to identify andnormalize the important entities in (a) the abstractof the original article, (b) the body of the originalarticle, and (c) the citances to the article.
We hy-pothesize that grouping entities by their occurrencein the citances represents a better summary of theoriginal paper than using only the first two sourcesof information.To help determine the utility of the approach, weare applying it to the problem of identifying arti-cles that discuss critical residue functionality, for usein PhyloFacts a phylogenomic database (Sjolander,2004).Consider the article shown in Figure 1.
This paperis a prominent one, published in 1992, with nearly500 papers citing it.
For about 200 of these papers,we downloaded the sentences that surround the cita-tion within the full text.
Some examples are shownin Figure 2.We are developing a statistical model that willgroup these entities into potentially overlappinggroups, where each group represents a central ideain the original paper.
In the example shown, some ofthe citances emphasize what the paper reports aboutthe structural elements of the SH2 domain, whereasother emphasize its findings on interactions and oth-ers focus on the critical residues.Often several articles are cited in the same citance,so it is important to untangle which entities belongto which citation; by pursuing overlapping sets, ourmodel should be able to eliminate most spurious ref-erences.The same entity is often described in many differ-ent ways.
Prior work has shown how to use redun-dant information across citations to help normalizeentities (Wellner et al, 2004; Pasula et al, 2003);similar techniques may work with entities men-tioned in citances.
This can be combined with priorwork on normalizing entity names in bioscience text,e.g, (Morgan et al, 2004).
For a detailed review ofrelated work see (Nakov et al, 2004).By emphasizing entities the model potentiallymisses important relationships between the entities.It remains to be determined whether or not relation-ships must be modeled explicitly in order to create auseful summary.134ReferencesA.
A. Morgan, L. Hirschman, M. Colosimo, A. S. Yeh, and J.
B. Colombe.
2004.
Gene name identification and normalizationusing a model organism database.
Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 37(6):396?410.P.
I. Nakov, A. S. Schwartz, and M. Hearst.
2004.
Citances: Citation sentences for semantic analysis of bioscience text.
InProceedings of the SIGIR?04 workshop on Search and Discovery in Bioinformatics.H.
Pasula, B. Marthi, B. Milch, S. Russell, and I. Shiptser.
2003.
Identity uncertainty and citation matching.
Advances In NeuralInformation Processing Systems, 15.K.
Sjolander.
2004.
Phylogenomic inference of protein molecular function: advances and challenges.
Bioinf., 20(2):170?179.B.
Wellner, A. McCallum, F. Peng, and M. Hay.
2004.
An integrated, conditional model of information extraction and coreferencewith application to citation graph construction.
In 20th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI).Waksman G, Kominos D, Robertson SC, Pant N, Baltimore D, Birge RB, Cowburn D, Hanafusa H,Mayer BJ, Overduin M, et al, Abstract Crystal structure of the phosphotyrosine recognition domainSH2 of v-src complexed with tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides.Nature.
1992 Aug 20;358(6388):646-53.
[PMID: 1379696]Three-dimensional structures of complexes of the SH2 domain of the v-src oncogene product with twophosphotyrosyl peptides have been determined by X-ray crystallography at resolutions of 1.5 and 2.0A, respectively.
A central antiparallel beta-sheet in the structure is flanked by two alpha-helices, withpeptide binding mediated by the sheet, intervening loops and one of the helices.
The specific recognitionof phosphotyrosine involves amino-aromatic interactions between lysine and arginine side chains and thering system in addition to hydrogen-bonding interactions with the phosphate.Figure 1: Target article for summarization.Binding of IFNgamma R and gp130 phosphotyrosine peptides to the STAT SH2 domains was mod-eled by using the coordinates of peptides pYIIPL (pY, phosphotyrosine) and pYVPML bound to thephospholipase C-gamma 1 and v-src kinase SH2 domains, respectively (#OTHER CITATION, #TAR-GET CITATION).The ligand-binding surface of the SH2 domain of the Lck nonreceptor protein tyrosine kinase con-tains two pockets, one for the Tyr(P) residue and another for the amino acid residue three positionsC-terminal to it, the +3 amino acid (#OTHER CITATION, #TARGET CITATION).Given the inherent specificity of SH2 phosphopeptide interactions (#TARGET CITATION), a highdegree of selectivity is possible for STAT dimerizations and for STAT activation by different ligand-receptor combinations.In fact, the v-src SH2 domain was previously shown to bind a peptide pYVPML of the platelet-derivedgrowth factor receptor in a rather unconventional manner (#TARGET CITATION).Figure 2: Sample citances pointing to target article, with some key terms highlighted.135
