Considerations on the nature of metaphoricalmeaning arising from a computationaltreatment of metaphor interpetationA.M.Wallington, R.Agerri, J.A.Barnden, S.R.Glasbey and M.G.LeeSchool of Computer Science,University of Birmingham, UK)A. M. Wallington@ cs.
bham.
ac.
ukAbstractThis paper argues that there need not be a full correspondence between source andtarget domains when interpreting metaphors.
Instead, inference is performed inthe source domain, and conclusions transferred to the target.
A description of acomputer system, ATT-Meta, that partially implements these ideas is provided.1 IntroductionIt is now generally accepted, especially since the work of Lakoff and associates(e.g.
[14,13,15]) that much of everyday discourse shows evidence of metaphor.Consequently, the question of how metaphor should be interpreted and whatthe semantic consequences are of using a metaphor is of major importance indetermining how discourse should be interpreted.Like Stern [19], we take the position that much of the interpretation ofmetaphor is highly context dependent and involves pragmatics.
However, webelieve that, for metaphor, pragmatics must be informed by theories of Artifi-cial Intelligence and psychology.
Thus we have some sympathy for Levinson?s([16] p.161) claim that:?the interpretation of metaphor must rely on features of our general abilityto reason analogically.
...
It could be claimed that linguistic pragmatics aloneshould not be expected to provide such a general theory of analogy, withoutconsiderable help from psychological theory 1 .
?We depart from Levinson with respect to analogy, and in this paper, weshall challenge current theories of analogy (e.g.
[7,8,11] and what might1 Levinson makes it clear that psychological theory includes Artificial Intelligence.be termed correspondence theories of metaphor (e.g, Lakoff?s ConceptualMetaphor Theory) in which a source domain is put in correspondence witha target domain.
We shall attempt to show that there is far less parallelismbetween source and target than is often assumed and that the process of inter-preting a metaphor often requires heavy use of inferencing in order to associatesource domain entities for which there is no parallel target equivalent, whatwe term ?Map-Transcending Entities?
(MTEs), with information that is in-volved in source to target transfer.
Now other AI approaches to metaphor alsoemphasise the role of source domain inference, Hobbs [10] and Narayanan [18]for example.
And, Martin?s MIDAS system includes a process of extendingconventional source to target mappings [17].
However, apart from importanttechnical differences between these systems and our own, we would wish tostress the implications extensive inferencing has for source-target parallelismand the repercussions this has for the semantics and pragmatics.We do not yet have a fully developed semantics and pragmatics of metaphor(although see [9] for some preliminary suggestions based on Stern).
However,what we do provide is an extensively developed (though informal) inference-based model of metaphor understanding that employs an event-based formal-ism similar to that of Hobbs [10], combined with a realization of this approachin a fully implemented system (ATT-Meta) that effects the type of reasoningthat we claim is at the heart of much metaphor understanding (See [1,4,21]).2 Correspondence approaches to interpreting metaphorThe work of Lakoff and Johnson e.g.
[14,15] not only stressed the ubiquity ofmetaphor in everyday discourse, but also noted that many metaphorical utter-ances could be systematically related to each other, all appealing to differentaspects of the same source domain and being used to describe the same targetdomain.
In other words, what is involved in metaphor is the mapping of onecognitive domain into another.
For example, Lakoff [13] notes that the follow-ing metaphors all involve a source domain of journeys being used to describea target domain of the progress of a love affair: Look how far we?ve come.It?s been a long, bumpy road.
We can?t turn back now.
We?re at a crossroads.The relationship isn?t going anywhere.
We may have to go our separate ways.We?re spinning our wheels.
Our relationship is off the track.
The marriage ison the rocks.
We may have to bail out of this relationship.
To account for thisgeneralization, Lakoff assumes a ?LOVE-AS-JOURNEY?
mapping, i.e.
?a setof ontological correspondences that characterize epistemic correspondences bymapping knowledge about journeys onto knowledge about love?
([13] p207).Specifically, he assumes the following ontological correspondences:THE LOVE-AS-JOURNEY MAPPINGi.
The lovers correspond to travellers.ii.
The love relationship corresponds to the vehicle.iii.
The lovers?
common goals correspond to their common destination.iv.
Difficulties in the relationship correspond to impediments to travel.Lakoff does not spell out in any detail exactly how the epistemic corre-spondences function, and how inferences made in the source transfer to thetarget.
He does however, claim that mappings ?project source domain infer-ence patterns onto target domain inference patterns?
([13] p245, emphasisadded).
However, we might turn to more formal work in analogy for a pos-sible mechanism.
Gentner (e.g.
[7]) argues that complex systematic relationsbetween source domain entities such as causal relations also transfer, whilstnon-systematic relations such as attributes do not.3 Map Transcending EntitiesLet us return to Lakoff?s list above of travel metaphors.
Consider the state-ment that we?re spinning our wheels.
How might we infer from this that thelove relationship is not progressing as it might?
Plausibly, the following chainof inferences might be entertained.
If wheels are referred to, then, defeasibly 2 ,a vehicle is involved.
The spinning wheels are causing the vehicle not to moveas it should.
If the vehicle is not moving as it should then it is not movingtowards its destination.What can we make of this pattern of inferences?
Both the vehicle andthe destination have correspondents in the target domain of the love affair,namely the love relationship and the lovers?
common goals.
With these cor-respondences, we might assume that the source domain conclusion can betransferred to become a target domain conclusion.
But, this is the transfer ofit conclusion.
It could never have been reached without the premise that some-thing -the spinning wheels- was causing the vehicle not to proceed.
So whatis the target correspondent of the spinning wheels whose presence is neededin order to allow the entire inference pattern as opposed to just the conclu-sion to transfer from source to target?
Nothing in the list of four ontologicalcorrespondences would seem to be appropriate.If we look at the other examples listed, we find similar cases where thelack of a target domain correspondent would prevent crucial aspects of theinference pattern mapping from source to target.
For example, what is thetarget domain correspondent of the rocks in the utterance our marriage is onthe rocks?
A similar point can be made about the location off the track inour relationship is off the track.
It is not that these statements are uninter-pretable.
Both would seem to permit the same conclusion that was reachedabout the spinning wheels, namely that the relationship/vehicle is not pro-gressing towards the destination and hence not towards the lovers?
goal.Note that it does not seem quite right to assume that the spinning wheels,rocks or lack of tracks are ?impediments?
in the sense of the third of Lakoff?s2 We shall henceforth assume that inferences are defeasible unless otherwise stated.correspondences.
There may be an interpretation under which the bumps inthe statement its been a long bumpy road refer to specific, listable, difficultiesin the love relationship, and similarly, the rocks may refer, for some, to a par-ticular event, but both could be used more generally.
Whatever, if anything,wheels might refer to it is a vague and very unspecific target domain entity.Let us now consider the utterance: We?re at a crossroads.
Stating that weare at some location on a road might be taken to implicate that we are goingsomewhere along the road and hence have a destination.
This would map toa target domain ?common goal?
However, there is no specific correspondentgiven for crossroads.
The source domain inference that if one is at a crossroads,then there is a choice of possible destinations cannot transfer to the targetdomain inference that there is a choice of possible relationship goals, if, as isstated, inference patterns are mapped from one domain to another.Now, a lack of target correspondents for source domain entities is not pe-culiar to the LOVE AS A JOURNEY conceptual metaphor, but is generallythe case.
In section 3, we shall give a description of our approach to metaphor-ical reasoning and our computational system ATT-Meta that performs suchreasoning.
A sentence that we shall analyse in some detail is the following:1 In the far reaches of her mind, Mary believed Kyle was having an affair.We assume that there is a mapping between ideas such as the idea thatKyle was having an affair and physical, manipulable, objects.
This reificationof ideas has a wide currency.
We shall also assume here that the mind is oftenviewed as a physical space.
However, what does the far reaches refer to?So what are we to make of these lacunae which prevent the step by steptransfer of inferences about the source becoming inferences about the tar-get?
Note that the absence of target domain correspondents of source domainentities is not a mere technical problem in determining how source domainimplications transfer and become target domain implications, nor should weassume that Lakoff?s claim that entire inference patterns as opposed tocertain conclusions transfer is just an imprecise form of words.
If there areno target domain correspondents of source domain entities, then we must as-sume that there are entities in texts have no reference even indirectly via atarget domain equivalent to anything in the real world.
There are entitiesthat can only be made sense of in terms of their literal meaning in the sourcedomain; a somewhat similar conclusion to Davidson?s [5] well known claimthat metaphors have only a literal meaning.One possibility is that the four correspondences given in the LOVE AS AJOURNEY mapping in section 2 are not intended to be exhaustive and themapping would if properly specified include correspondences for the entities wehave discussed.
For example, the crossroads example might motivate addingthe following correspondence to the mapping.v.
A choice of goals corresponds to a choice of destinations.However, a number of objections can be made to this view.
Many concep-tual metaphors are open-ended allowing almost any entity associated with thesource domain to be used when speaking of the target.
Now, not all of thesemight be conventional.
They might make use of what Lakoff and Johnson([14] p 53) call ?the unused part?
of the source domain.
For example, Lakoff[13] gives an example of a creative use of the conceptual metaphor LOVE ISA JOURNEY, the song lyric we?re riding in the fast lane on the freeway oflove.
There is no correspondent listed for fast lane nor for a freeway of love.It would seem that no finite list of correspondents would ever be enough.
Thiscriticism would also defeat lexically based treatments of metaphor.The last example contained very little that could plausibly correspond totarget-domain entities; perhaps just the inference that a journey and thusa destination is involved.
However, it might be conceded that whilst manymodifier phrases often do not correspond, overall statement-like constituentsof the source will correspond to statements in the target.
However, considerthe following example from real discourse of a particular metaphorical viewrunning through several consecutive statement-like utterances:?She was too confused to judge anything.
If he?d done nothing else, he?dat least invaded her thoughts and tossed them around until there was onlychaos in her head.
?We shall assume that the clauses he?d at least invaded her thoughts, [hehad] tossed them around and there was only chaos in her head all rely onthe metaphorical views of IDEAS AS PHYSICAL OBJECTS and MIND ASPHYSICAL SPACE, and taken together partially convey, in target-domainterms, that the man, ?he?, had done something that had resulted in thethoughts of the woman, ?her?, not functioning as they ought.
But isthere any need to assume a specific target-domain parallel for tossing physicalobjects around?
A similar point can be made about the statement he?d ...invaded her thoughts : the invading is just mentioned as a way of emphasizingthat he had done something that had had a strong effect on her thoughts.Now, it is possible that the mention of invading may have been used ifthe man had introduced thoughts into the woman?s mind by saying thingsto her; the invading corresponding to introducing.
It is then these thoughtsthat caused the tossing of the woman?s pre-existing thoughts.
However, it ispossible to imagine the above discourse segment occurring in a context whereit is clear that the man had not communicated anything to her.In short, even a sentence, the traditional unit of analysis of truth, mighthave no meaning other than in terms of the source domain.
In the rest of thispaper we shall describe our approach and implemented computational model,ATT-Meta, for reasoning with metaphorical utterances that contain MTEs.4 Inferencing and ATT-MetaRecall that our proposed fifth correspondence in the previous section had a?choice?
in the target corresponding to a ?choice?
in the source.
If we look at thefourth correspondence, we find something similar.
A target domain ?difficulty?corresponds to a type of difficulty or ?impediment?
in the source.
Note alsothat Lakoff argues a-propos the ?fast lane?
song lyric that driving in the fastlane is exciting and that the excitement transfers to the target.
And we couldgive examples in which other emotional states transfer from the source to thetarget.
In the ?invasion?
passage, the conclusion that the woman?s mind wasnot functioning properly was likewise transferred.
What all these cases have incommon is that they involve essentially ?invariant?
transfers from the sourceto the target.
These are of a very different nature from the cross-domaincorrespondences between say journeys and love affairs.
We argue that suchtransfers are affected by what we term ?View-Neutral Mapping Adjuncts?and argue that they apply universally, at least by default, regardless of whatcross-domain mappings are in play and our system has made a start bothat investigating what VNMAs are required and at formalising some of them.
(See [2,3,21] for more details.
)In order to sketch our approach let us return to the Anne/Kyle example:1 In the far reaches of her mind, Anne believed Kyle was having an affair[.
]and compare it to the following variant:2 Anne had in her mind the belief that Kyle was having an affair.We assume that both sentences utilize the conceptual metaphors (a termwhich we replace with the more neutral ?metaphorical view?
in our work):(A) IDEAS AS PHYSICAL OBJECTS (B) MIND AS PHYSICAL SPACE.We assume that one correspondence included under view (A) is the fol-lowing: ?Conscious mental processing corresponds to physical manipulation.?
(See [12] for motivation).
We also assume that with activities such as pro-cessing/manipulating, which one can have the ability to perform to a greateror lesser degree, DEGREE is a VNMA and maps over from source to targetin an invariant manner.
Thus a very low ability to mentally process an ideacorresponds to a very low ability to physically manipulate an object.We assume that accompanying metaphorical view (B) are two ancillary as-sumptions.
Firstly, that the conscious self of the mind?s possessor is metaphor-ically cast as a person physically located in (a central part of) the mind-region.Secondly, that when a cognitive state (such as believing) is cast as located ina physical sub-region of a mind, then the idea or whatever that is the objectof the state is also to be thought of as physically located in that sub-region.As we suggested in the previous section, we assume that there is no knowncorrespondent for the far reaches; it is a map-transcending entity.So how does the informational contribution of (1) and (2) differ?
Plausibly,what (2) principally conveys to the reader is that Anne has the ability tooperate in a conscious mental way on the idea that Kyle was having an affair.In brief: Anne is aware of the affair.
By contrast, what (1) seems to conveyis that the ability to operate holds only to a very low degree.
In brief: Annehad very little conscious awareness of the affair.Thus, the situation described by the ?far reaches?
utterance is cast as beingone where Anne?s conscious self is a person in a central part of Anne?s mind-region, and the idea that Kyle was having an affair is in the far reaches ofthe mind-region.
Now, let us assume that the understander?s common senseknowledge of physical space and physical objects includes the following:* things in the far reaches of a region are usually distant from things in acentral part (distance being relative to the scale of the whole region).
* if a person is physically distant from a physical object then the person usuallyhas only a very low degree of ability to manipulate that object physically.Thus, the understander can reason, within the terms of the source domainsof the metaphorical views (PHYSICAL SPACE and PHYSICAL OBJECTS),that, probably, Anne?s conscious self has only 3 a very low degree of ability tophysically manipulate the idea that Kyle was having an affair.This conclusion can become the target-domain conclusion that Anne hasonly a very low degree of ability to operate in a conscious mental way on theidea that Kyle was having an affair, by virtue of the correspondence betweenphysical manipulation and conscious mental processing that was assumed asan aspect of the IDEAS AS PHYSICAL OBJECTS mapping, and by virtueof the VNMA invariantly mapping the very low degree from source to target.In our approach source-target correspondences are implicit in transferrules.
In the case of the correspondences just mentioned, English glosses ofthe relevant rules include:* IF in reality X is a person and K is an idea* AND K is being viewed as a physical object* AND person X?s conscious self is being viewed as being able tooperate physically on K to at least degree D* THEN presumably in reality X can mentally operate consciouslyon K to degree at least D.This rule allows one aspect of the source-domain conclusion to lead to thetarget-domain conclusion that Anne can mentally operate consciously on theKyle-affair idea to degree at least ?very low?.In sum, our approach involves the following main types of processing:* Construction of a representation of the direct, source-domain meaning ofthe utterance, i.e.
the meaning it has by taking only the source-domain sensesof the metaphorically-used words/phrases in the utterance.
This meaningconsists of one or more propositions.
* In some cases, application of ancillary assumptions associated with the rele-vant metaphorical views to create further propositions in source-domain terms.
* Usually, performance of source-domain reasoning on the basis of the direct3 A very low degree of ability might implicate that Anne does not have a higher degree,but does not entail it.
Hence our addition of ?only?.source-domain meaning, the products of ancillary assumptions, and generalknowledge relevant to the source domain meaning.
* Source-to-target transfer acts by application of transfer rules (and VNMAs).This listing does not imply any particular temporal ordering of the typesof processing.
Indeed in ATT-Meta the reasoning actually works backwardsfrom reasoning queries posed internally within the system and can involve anyintertwining and ordering of instances of the above types of reasoning.An important feature of our approach that we have not yet mentioned isthat it encapsulates the source-domain reasoning based on the literal meaningof the utterance within a special computational context we call a pretencecocoon.
Metaphorical transfer acts based on rules such as those above oper-ate between the inside of the pretence cocoon and the reality-context outside.Thus, for the Anne/Kyle example, the understander pretends, within the co-coon, that Anne?s mind really is a physical space and that the believing reallydoes occur in the far reaches of this space.
Consequences of this are inferredin the pretence cocoon, possibly by substantial amounts of reasoning, usingancillary assumptions and knowledge about physical objects and space.
Theconclusions reached may then be able to be transmuted, via transfer rulesforming part of the relevant metaphorical views, into propositions in the re-ality environment.
However, we ought to stress that many different lines ofreasoning will be explored, many ultimately proving unsuccessful.We should also stress that when a pretence cocoon is created, it is nottagged as having to do with any particular metaphorical view.
Only by hav-ing the utterance?s direct source-domain meaning placed within it, such as themind having far-reaches, can an inference be made that that the particularmetaphorical view MIND AS PHYSICAL SPACE with its associated corre-spondences is being used.
Thus, even the question of the metaphorical viewsinvolved in an utterance results from a possibly extensive web of inferences.Finally note that although Anne?s mind is categorized in the pretenceas a physical region, this is in addition to its being categorized there as amind.
(Thus, a pretence cocoon is reminiscent of a blend space in BlendingTheory: [6].)
Given the existence of suitable knowledge rules, such as thata mind is not a physical region, we can get conflicting propositions arisingwithin the pretence, because in general it is wrong to prevent rules about thetarget domain operating within the pretence.
In the present case we wouldget both strong support for the mind being a physical region and for its notbeing a physical region.
The ATT-Meta system implements conflict-resolutionmechanisms that deal with reasoning conflicts in general, and that embodya small number of general principles about conflict resolution in metaphor[1,20].
In the present case, the mechanisms ensure that the proposition thatAnne?s mind is a physical region wins over the proposition that it is not.5 ConclusionWe have provided a brief outline of some of the ideas in our implemented,inference-based approach to metaphor.
Much more detail, including the ap-plication to other examples, can be found elsewhere [1,2,4].The main point has been the use of inference to connect source-domain as-pects that are raised by an utterance but not handled by known metaphoricalmappings to source-domain aspects in mappings that the understander doesknow, and particularly to knowledge of what invariant aspects of metaphoricalutterances are likely to transfer.
By this means, the approach can deal withopen-ended extensions of metaphorical beyond what can be readily dealt withby known mappings by themselves, without the need for creating mappingsfor the unmapped source-domain aspects.We thus radically downplay source/target parallelism in metaphor in favourof inference, and place great weight on the thesis that metaphors often intro-duce source-domain aspects that do not need any correspondents in the targetdomain (let alne already have any): their only purpose is to support usefullines of source-domain inference that connect to known mappings.
One ofthe interesting semantic issues raised is that these unmapped aspects do notby themselves have any meaning in target-domain terms, and it would be amistake to try to specify such meaning.6 acknowledgementsThis work has been supported by current and past grants: EP/C538943/1 andGR/M64208, from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.References[1] Barnden, J.A.
(2001) Uncertainty and conflict handling in the ATT-Metacontext-based system for metaphorical reasoning.
In, V. Akman, P. Bouquet,R.
Thomason and R.A. Young (Eds), Procs.
Third International Conference onModeling and Using Context.
Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence, Vol.
2116.Berlin: Springer, 15-29.
[2] Barnden, J.A.
and Lee, M.G., (2001).
Understanding open-ended usages offamiliar conceptual metaphors: An approach and artificial intelligence system.Technical Report CSRP-01-05, School of Computer Science, University ofBirmingham.
[3] Barnden, J.A., Glasbey, S.R., Lee M.G.
and Wallington, A.M. (2003).
Domain-transcending mappings in a system for metaphorical reasoning.
In Proceedingsof the Research Note Sessions of the 10th Conference of EACL.
[4] Barnden, J.A., Glasbey, S.R., Lee, M.G.
and Wallington, A.M. (2004), Varietiesand directions of inter-domain influence in metaphor.
Metaphor and Symbol19(1), 1?30.
[5] Davidson, D. (1979).
What metaphors mean.
In, S. Sacks (Ed.
), On Metaphor.U.
Chicago Press, 29-45.
[6] Fauconnier, G and Turner, M. (2002).
The Way We Think: Conceptual Blendingand the Minds Hidden Complexities.
NY: Basic Books.
[7] Gentner, G. (1983).
Structure-mapping: A theoretical framework for analogy.Cognitive Science, 7(2), 155?170.
[8] Gentner, D., Falkenhainer, B. and Skorstad, J.
(1988).
Viewing metaphor asanalogy.
In D.H. Helman (Ed.
), Analogical reasoning.
Dordrecht.
Kluwer.
[9] Glasbey, S.R and Barnden, J.A.
(submitted).
Towards a situation-baseddiscourse semantics for metaphor.
Submitted to the journal Research onLanguage and Computation.
[10] Hobbs, J.R. (1990) Literature and Cognition CSLI Lecture Notes, Center forthe Study of Language and Information, Stanford University.
[11] Holyoak, K J. and Thagard, P. (1989).
Analogical mapping by constraintsatisfaction.
Cognitive Science, 13(3), 295-355.
[12] Jaekel, O.
(1995).
The Metaphorical Concept of Mind, in J.R. Taylor and R.E.MacLaury (eds), Language and the Cognitive Construal of the World.
Berlin NewYork, Mouton de Gruyter.
197?229.
[13] Lakoff, G. (1993).
The contemporary theory of metaphor.
In A Ortony (Ed.
),Metaphor and Thought, 2nd ed.
Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
[14] Lakoff, G. and Johnson, M. (1980).
Metaphors We Live By.
University ofChicago Press.
[15] Lakoff, G. and Johnson, M. (1999).
Philosophy in the Flesh.
NY: Basic Books.
[16] Levinson, S. (1983).
Pragmatics.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
[17] Martin, J. H. (1990).
A Computational Model of Metaphor Interpretation.
NY:Academic Press.
[18] Narayanan, S. (1999).
?Moving right along: A computational model ofmetaphoric reasoning about events,?
Procs.
National Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, pp.121?128.
AAAI Press.
[19] Stern, J.
(2000).
Metaphor in Context.
Cambridge, MA and London, UK:Bradford Books, MIT Press.
[20] Wallington, A.M and Barnden, J.A.
(2004).
Uncertainty in MetaphoricalReasoning.
In Procs of the Workshop on Computational Models of NaturalArgument (CMNA) at ECAI 2004.
August 2004, Valencia, Spain.
[21] Wallington, A.M., Barnden, J.A.
Glasbey S.R.
and Lee M. G. (2006).Metaphorical reasoning with an economical set of mappings.
Delta, 22:1.
