Proceedings of the Workshop on Sentiment and Subjectivity in Text, pages 47?54,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsExploitation in Affect Detection in Open-Ended Improvisational TextLi Zhang, John A. Barnden, Robert J. Hendley and Alan M. WallingtonSchool of Computer ScienceUniversity of BirminghamBirmingham B15 2TT, UKl.zhang@cs.bham.ac.ukAbstractWe report progress on adding affect-detection to a program for virtual dra-matic improvisation, monitored by a hu-man director.
We have developed an af-fect-detection module to control anautomated virtual actor and to contributeto the automation of directorial functions.The work also involves basic researchinto how affect is conveyed throughmetaphor.
The project contributes to theapplication of sentiment and subjectivityanalysis to the creation of emotionallybelievable synthetic agents for interactivenarrative environments.1 IntroductionImprovised drama and role-play are widely usedin education, counselling and conflict resolution.Researchers have explored frameworks for e-drama, in which virtual characters (avatars)interact under the control of human actors.
Thespringboard for our research is an existingsystem (edrama) created by one of our industrialpartners, Hi8us Midlands, used in schools forcreative writing and teaching in various subjects.The experience suggests that e-drama helpsstudents lose their usual inhibitions, because ofanonymity etc.
In edrama, characters arecompletely human-controlled, their speechestextual in speech bubbles, and their visual formscartoon figures.
The actors (users) are given aloose scenario within which to improvise, but areat liberty to be creative.
There is also a humandirector, who constantly monitors the unfoldingdrama and can intervene by, for example,sending messages to actors, or by introducingand controlling a minor ?bit-part?
character tointeract with the main characters.
But this placesa heavy burden on directors, especially if theyare, for example, teachers and unpracticed in thedirectorial role.
One research aim is thus partiallyto automate the directorial functions, whichimportantly involve affect detection.
Forinstance, a director may intervene whenemotions expressed or discussed by charactersare not as expected.
Hence we have developed anaffect-detection module.
It has not yet actuallybeen used for direction, but instead to control anautomated bit-part actor, EMMA (emotion,metaphor and affect).
The module identifiesaffect in characters?
speeches, and makesappropriate responses to help stimulate theimprovisation.
Within affect we include: basicand complex emotions such as anger andembarrassment; meta-emotions such as desiringto overcome anxiety; moods such as hostility;and value judgments (of goodness, etc.
).Although merely detecting affect is limitedcompared to extracting full meaning, this is oftenenough for stimulating improvisation.Much research has been done on creating af-fective virtual characters in interactive systems.Indeed, Picard?s work (2000) makes great con-tributions to building affective virtual characters.Also, emotion theories, particularly that of Or-tony, et al (1988) (OCC), have been used widelytherein.
Egges et al (2003) have provided virtualcharacters with conversational emotional respon-siveness.
However, few systems are aimed atdetecting affect as broadly as we do and in open-ended utterances.
Although Fa?ade (Mateas,2002) included processing of open-ended utter-ances, the broad detection of emotions, rudenessand value judgements is not covered.
Zhe &Boucouvalas (2002) demonstrated emotion ex-traction using a tagger and a chunker to help de-tect the speaker?s own emotions.
But it focusesonly on emotional adjectives, considers only47first-person emotions and neglects deep issuessuch as figurative expression.
Our work is dis-tinctive in several respects.
Our interest is notjust in (a) the positive first-person case: the af-fective states that a virtual character X impliesthat it has (or had or will have, etc.
), but also in(b) affect that X implies it lacks, (c) affect that Ximplies that other characters have or lack, and (d)questions, commands, injunctions, etc.
concern-ing affect.
We aim also for the software to copepartially with the important case of metaphoricalconveyance of affect (Fussell & Moss, 1998;K?vecses, 1998).Our project does not involve using or develop-ing deep, scientific models of how emotionalstates, etc., function in cognition.
Instead, thedeep questions investigated are on linguistic mat-ters such as the metaphorical expression of af-fect.
Also, in studying how people understandand talk about affect, what is of prime impor-tance is their common-sense views of how affectworks, irrespective of scientific reality.
Metaphoris strongly involved in such views.2 Our Current Affect DetectionVarious characterizations of emotion are used inemotion theories.
The OCC model uses emotionlabels (anger, etc.)
and intensity, while Watsonand Tellegen (1985) use positivity and negativityof affect as the major dimensions.
Currently, weuse an evaluation dimension (negative-positive),affect labels, and intensity.
Affect labels plusintensity are used when strong text clues signal-ling affect are detected, while the evaluation di-mension plus intensity is used for weak textclues.
Moreover, our analysis reported here isbased on the transcripts of previous e-drama ses-sions.
Since even a person?s interpretations ofaffect can be very unreliable, our approach com-bines various weak relevant affect indicators intoa stronger and more reliable source of informa-tion for affect detection.
Now we summarize ouraffect detection based on multiple streams of in-formation.2.1 Pre-processing ModulesThe language in the speeches created in e-dramasessions severely challenges existing language-analysis tools if accurate semantic information issought even for the purposes of restricted affect-detection.
The language includes misspellings,ungrammaticality, abbreviations (often as in textmessaging), slang, use of upper case and specialpunctuation (such as repeated exclamationmarks) for affective emphasis, repetition ofletters or words also for affective emphasis, andopen-ended interjective and onomatopoeicelements such as ?hm?
and ?grrrr?.
In theexamples we have studied, which so far involveteenage children improvising around topics suchas school bullying, the genre is similar to Internetchat.To deal with the misspellings, abbreviations,letter repetitions, interjections and onomatopoeia,several types of pre-processing occur before ac-tual detection of affect.A lookup table has been used to deal with ab-breviations e.g.
?im (I am)?, ?c u (see you)?
and?l8r (later)?.
It includes abbreviations used inInternet chat rooms and others found in an analy-sis of previous edrama sessions.
We handle am-biguity (e.g.,?2?
(to, too, two) in ?I?m 2 hungry 2walk?)
by considering the POS tags of immedi-ately surrounding words.
Such simple processinginevitably leads to errors, but in evaluations us-ing examples in a corpus of 21695 words derivedfrom previous transcripts we have obtained85.7% accuracy, which is currently adequate.
Weare also considering dealing with abbreviations,etc.
in a more general way by including them asspecial lexical items in the lexicon of the robustparser we are using (see below).The iconic use of word length (correspondingroughly to imagined sound length) as found bothin ordinary words with repeated letters (e.g.?seeeee?)
and in onomatopoeia and interjections,(e.g.
?wheee?, ?grr?, ?grrrrrr?, ?agh?, ?aaaggghhh?
)normally implies strong affective states.
We havea small dictionary containing base forms of somespecial words (e.g.
?grr?)
and some ordinarywords that often have letters repeated in e-drama.Then the Metaphone spelling-correction algo-rithm (http://aspell.net/metaphone/), which isbased on pronunciation, works with the diction-ary to locate the base forms of words with letterrepetitions.Finally, the Levenshtein distance algorithm(http://www.merriampark.com/ld.htm) with acontemporary English dictionary deals withspelling mistakes in users?
input.2.2 Processing of Imperative MoodsOne useful pointer to affect is the use of impera-tive mood, especially when used without soften-ers such as ?please?
or ?would you?.
Strong emo-tions and/or rude attitudes are often expressed inthis case.
There are special, common imperativephrases we deal with explicitly, such as ?shutup?
and ?mind your own business?.
They usually48indicate strong negative emotions.
But the phe-nomenon is more general.Detecting imperatives accurately in general isby itself an example of the non-trivial problemswe face.
We have used the syntactic output fromthe Rasp parser (Briscoe & Carroll, 2002) andsemantic information in the form of the semanticprofiles for the 1,000 most frequently used Eng-lish words (Heise, 1965) to deal with certaintypes of imperatives.Rasp recognises some types of imperatives di-rectly.
Unfortunately, the grammar of the 2002version of the Rasp parser that we have useddoes not deal properly with certain imperatives(John Carroll, p.c), which means that exampleslike ?you shut up?, ?Dave bring me the menu?,?Matt don?t be so blunt?
and ?please leave mealone?, are not recognized as imperatives, but asnormal declarative sentences.
Therefore, furtheranalysis is needed to detect imperatives, by addi-tional processing applied to the possibly-incorrect syntactic trees produced by Rasp.If Rasp outputs a subject, ?you?, followed bycertain verbs (e.g.
?shut?, ?calm?, etc) or certainverb phrases (e.g.
?get lost?, ?go away?
etc), thesentence type will be changed to imperative.
(Note: in ?you get out?
the ?you?
could be avocative rather than the subject of ?get?, espe-cially as punctuation such as commas is oftenomitted in our genre; however these cases are notworth distinguishing and we assume that the?you?
is a subject.)
If a softener ?please?
is fol-lowed by the base forms of a verb, then the inputis taken to be imperative.
If a singular propernoun is followed by a base form of the verb, thenthis sentence is taken to be an imperative as well(e.g.
?Dave get lost?).
However, when a subjectis followed by a verb for which there is no dif-ference at all between the base form and the pasttense form, then ambiguity arises between im-perative and declarative (e.g.
?Lisa hit me?
).There is an important special case of this am-biguity.
If the object of the verb is ?me?, then inorder to solve the ambiguity, we have adoptedthe evaluation value of the verb from Heise?s(1965) compilation of semantic differential pro-files.
In these profiles, Heise listed values ofevaluation, activation, potency, distance fromneutrality, etc.
for the 1,000 most frequently usedEnglish words.
In the evaluation dimension,positive values imply goodness.
Because nor-mally people tend to use ?a negative verb + me?to complain about an unfair fact to the others, ifthe evaluation value is negative for such a verb,then this sentence is probably not imperative butdeclarative (e.g.
?Mayid hurt me?).
Otherwise,other factors implying imperative are checked inthis sentence, such as exclamation marks andcapitalizations.
If these factors occur, then theinput is probably an imperative.
Otherwise, theconversation logs are checked to see if there isany question sentence directed toward thisspeaker recently.
If there is, then the input is con-jectured to be declarative.There is another type of sentence: ?don?t you +base form of verb?
that we have started to address.Though such a sentence is often interrogative, it isalso often a negative version of an imperative witha ?you?
subject (e.g.
?Don?t you dare call me adog,?
?Don?t you call me a dog?).
Normally Raspregards it as a question sentence.
Thus, furtheranalysis has also been implemented for such a sen-tence structure to change its sentence type to im-perative.
Although currently this has limited effect,as we only infer a (negative) affective qualitywhen the verb is ?dare?, we plan to add semanticprocessing in an attempt to glean affect more gen-erally from ?Don?t you ??
imperatives.2.3 Affect Detection by Pattern MatchingIn an initial stage of our work, affect detectionwas based purely on textual pattern-matchingrules that looked for simple grammatical patternsor templates partially involving lists of specificalternative words.
This continues to be a coreaspect of our system but we have now added ro-bust parsing and some semantic analysis.
Jess, arule-based Java framework, is used to implementthe pattern/template-matching rules in EMMA.In the textual pattern-matching, particularkeywords, phrases and fragmented sentences arefound, but also certain partial sentence structuresare extracted.
This procedure possesses the ro-bustness and flexibility to accept many ungram-matical fragmented sentences and to deal withthe varied positions of sought-after phraseologyin speeches.
However, it lacks other types ofgenerality and can be fooled when the phrasesare suitably embedded as subcomponents ofother grammatical structures.
For example, if theinput is ?I doubt she?s really angry?, rules look-ing for anger in a simple way will fail to providethe expected results.The transcripts analysed to inspire our initialknowledge base and pattern-matching rules werederived independently from previous edramaimprovisations based on a school bullying sce-nario.
We have also worked on another, dis-tinctly different scenario, Crohn?s disease, basedon a TV programme by another of our industrial49partners (Maverick TV).
The rule sets created forone scenario have a useful degree of applicabilityto other scenarios, though there will be a fewchanges in the related knowledge database ac-cording to the nature of specific scenarios.The rules, as we mentioned at the beginning ofthis section, conjecture the character?s emotions,evaluation dimension (negative or positive), po-liteness (rude or polite) and what responseEMMA should make.Multiple exclamation marks and capitalisationare frequently employed to express emphasis ine-drama sessions.
If exclamation marks or capi-talisation are detected in a character?s utterance,then the emotion intensity is deemed to be com-paratively high (and emotion is suggested evenin the absence of other indicators).A reasonably good indicator that an inner stateis being described is the use of ?I?
(see alsoCraggs & Wood (2004)), especially in combina-tion with the present or future tense.
In theschool-bullying scenario, when ?I?
is followed bya future-tense verb the affective state ?threaten-ing?
is normally being expressed; and the utter-ance is usually the shortened version of an im-plied conditional, e.g., ?I?ll scream [if you stayhere].?
Note that when ?I?
is followed by a pre-sent-tense verb, a variety of other emotionalstates tend to be expressed, e.g.
?I want mymum?
(fear) and ?I hate you?
(dislike), I like you(liking).
Further analysis of first-person, present-tense cases is provided in the following section.2.4 Going Beyond Pattern MatchingIn order to go beyond the limitations of simplepattern matching, sentence type information ob-tained from the Rasp parser has also beenadopted in the pattern-matching rules.
The gen-eral sentence structure information not only helpsEMMA to detect affective states in the user?sinput (see the above discussion of imperatives),and to decide if the detected affective statesshould be counted, but also helps EMMA tomake appropriate responses.
Rasp will informthe pattern-matching rule with sentence type in-formation.
If the current input is a conditional orquestion sentence with affective keywords orstructures in, then the affective states won?t bevalued.
For example, if the input is ?I like theplace when it is quiet?, Rasp works out its sen-tence type: a conditional sentence and the rulefor structures containing ?like?
with a normaldeclarative sentence label won?t be activated.Instead, the rule for the keyword ?when?
with aconditional sentence type label will be fired.
Thusan appropriate response will be obtained.Additionally, as we discussed in section 2.2, weuse Rasp to indicate imperative sentences, such aswhen Mayid (the bully) said ?Lisa, don?t tell Missabout it?.
The pseudo-code example rule for suchinput is as follows:(defrule example_rule?fact <- (any string containing negation and thesentence type is ?imperative?)
=>(obtain affect and response from knowledge da-tabase)Thus the declarative input such as ?I won?t tellMiss about it?
won?t be able to activate the exam-ple rule due to different sentence type information.Especially, we have assigned a special sentencetype label (?imp+please?)
for imperatives with sof-tener ?please?.
Only using this special sentencetype label itself in the pattern-matching rule helpsus effortlessly to obtain the user?s linguistic style(?polite?)
and probably a polite response fromEMMA as well according to different roles in spe-cific scenarios.Aside from using the Rasp parser, we have alsoworked on implementing simple types of semanticextraction of affect using affect dictionaries andelectronic thesauri, such as WordNet.
The way weare currently using WordNet is briefly as follows.2.5 Using WordNet for a First Person CaseAs we mentioned earlier, use of the first-personwith a present-tense verb tends to express an affec-tive state in the speaker, especially in discourse inwhich affect is salient, as is the case in scenariossuch as School Bullying and Crohn?s Disease.
Wehave used the Rasp parser to detect such a sen-tence.
First of all, such user?s input is sent to thepattern-matching rules in order to obtain thespeaker?s current affective state and EMMA?s re-sponse to the user.
If there is no rule fired (i.e.
wedon?t obtain any information of the speaker?s af-fective state and EMMA?s response from the pat-tern-matching rules), further processing is applied.We use WordNet to track down the rough syno-nyms of the verb (possibly from different Word-Net ?synsets?)
in the verb phrase of the input sen-tence, in order to allow a higher degree of general-ity than would be achieved just with the use of ourpattern-matching rules.
In order to find the closestsynonyms to the verb in different synsets, the se-mantic profiles of the 1,000 most frequently usedEnglish words (Heise, 1965) have been employed,especially to find the evaluation values of everysynonym of the original verb.
We transform posi-tive and negative evaluation values in Heise?s dic-50tionary into binary ?positive?
and ?negative?
only.Thus if any synonym has the same evaluationvalue (?positive?
or ?negative?)
as that of the origi-nal verb, then it will be selected as a member ofthe set of closest synonyms.
Then, we use oneclosest synonym to replace the original verb in theuser?s input.
This newly built sentence will be sentto the pattern-matching rules in order to obtain theuser?s affective state and EMMA?s response.
Suchprocessing (using a closest synonym to replace theoriginal verb and sending the newly built sentenceto the pattern-matching rules) continues until weobtain the speaker?s affective state and appropriateresponse.2.6 Responding RegimesEMMA normally responds to, on average, everyNth speech by another character in the e-dramasession, where N is a changeable parameter (cur-rently set to 3).
However, it also responds whenEMMA?s character?s name is mentioned, andmakes no response if it cannot detect anythinguseful in the utterance it is responding to.
Theone-in-N average is achieved by sampling a ran-dom variable every time another character sayssomething.
As a future development, we plan tohave N dynamically adjustable according to howconfident EMMA is about what it has discernedin the utterance at hand.EMMA sometimes makes a random responsefrom several stored response candidates that aresuitable for the affective quality it has discernedin an utterance it is responding to.
In addition,EMMA sometimes reflects back, in modifiedform, part of the user?s input string as a sub-component of its response.
Notice here that, be-cause the pre-processing module reported in sec-tion 2.1 expands abbreviations and corrects mis-spellings, it helps to obscure the fact that part ofEMMA?s response is only a reflection.
E.g.
:<Character> I?m ur (your) best m8 (mate).<EMMA> Why are you my best mate?On the other hand, we also, on a random basis,purposely put phenomena such as abbreviationsand Internet-chat features in EMMA?s responsesin order to make EMMA express itself more likea typical school-student user.
E.g.
:<Character> You get lost!<EMMA> Hey, coool it folks.
(notice thelengthening of ?cool?
)<Character> He didn?t do it.<EMMA> No1 believes you, m8.
(where?no1?
stands for ?no one?
)It should be borne in mind that EMMA?s re-sponses are not aimed at engaging with the de-tailed meaning of the utterance, but simply tostimulate the improvisation in a way that issomewhat sensitive to affect being expressed.Furthermore, in order to make the EMMA char-acter?s responses push the improvisation for-ward, the character will not only ask scenariorelated questions to the main characters, but alsointroduce new topics closely related to the sce-nario in the improvisation.
In a recent user-testing debrief session, secondary school studentsmentioned that the human bit-part character didnot stay in character and said pointless things,while in another session one student, who playeda main character, believed that the EMMA char-acter was the only one that stuck to scenario re-lated topics.
The directors reported that, evenwhen a main character was silent and the directordid not intervene very much, the EMMA charac-ter led the improvisation on the right track byraising new topics other characters were con-cerned about.3 Affect via MetaphorIn the introduction we commented on two func-tions of metaphor.
Metaphor is often used toconvey affect and it also partly underlies folktheories of how affect and emotion work.
As anexample of the latter, folk theories of anger oftentalk about, and appear to conceive of, anger as ifit were a heated fluid possibly exerting a strongpressure on its containing body.
This motivates awide range of metaphorical expressions bothconventional such as ?he was boiling with angerand about to blow his top?
and more creativevariants such as ?the temperature in the officewas getting higher and this had nothing to dowith where the thermostat was set?
(modified,slightly from a Google?
search).
Passion, orlack of, is also often described in terms of heatand the latter example could in certain contextsbe used in this manner.
So far, examples of ac-tors reflecting or commenting on the nature oftheir or others emotions, which would require anappropriate vocabulary, have been infrequent inthe e-drama transcripts, although we might ex-pect to find more examples as more students par-ticipate in the Crohn?s disease scenario.However, such metaphorically motivated folkmodels often directly motivate the terminologyused to convey affect, as in utterances such as?you leave me cold?, which conveys lack of in-terest or disdain.
This use of metaphor to moti-vate folk models of emotions and, as a conse-quence, certain forms of direct expression of51emotion has been extensively studied, albeit usu-ally from a theoretical, linguistic, perspective(Fussell & Moss, 1998; K?vecses, 1998).Less recognised (although see Barnden et al,2004; Wallington et al, 2006) is the fact thatmetaphor is also frequently used to convey emo-tion more indirectly.
Here the metaphor does notdescribe some aspect of an emotional state, butsomething else.
Crucially, however, it also con-veys a negative or positive value judgementwhich is carried over to what is being describedand this attitude hints at the emotion.
For exam-ple to say of someone?s room that ?it is a cess-pit?
allows the negative evaluation of ?cess-pit?to be transferred to ?the room?
and we might as-sume an emotion of disgust.
In our transcripts wefind examples such as ?smelly attitude?
and ?youbuy your clothes at the rag market?
(which wetake to be not literally true).
Animal insults suchas ?you pig?
frequently take this form, althoughmany are now highly conventionalised.
Ouranalysis of e-drama transcripts shows that thistype of metaphor that conveys affect indirectly ismuch more common than the direct use.It should be apparent that even though conven-tional metaphorical phraseology may well belisted in specialised lexicons, approaches tometaphor and affect which rely upon a form oflexical look-up to determine the meaning of ut-terances are likely to miss both the creative vari-ants and extensions of standard metaphors andalso the quite general carrying over of affectualevaluations from the literal meaning of an utter-ance to the intended metaphorical meaning.At the time of writing (early June 2006) littlein the way of metaphor handling has been incor-porated into the EMMA affect-detection module.However, certain aspects of metaphor handlingwill be incorporated shortly, since they involveextensions of existing capabilities.
Our intendedapproach is partly to look for stock metaphoricalphraseology and straightforward variants of it,which is the most common form of metaphor inmost forms of discourse, including e-drama.However, we also plan to employ a simple ver-sion of the more open-ended, reasoning-basedtechniques described in the ATT-Meta project onmetaphor processing (Barnden et al, 2004; Wal-lington et al, 2006).As a first step, it should be noted that insultsand swear words are often metaphorical.
We arecurrently investigating specialised insult diction-aries and the machine-readable version of theOALD, which indicates slang.Calling someone an animal of any sort usuallyconveys affect, but it can be either insulting oraffectionate.
We have noted that calling someonethe young of an animal is often affectionate, andthe same is true of diminutive (e.g., ?piglet?)
andnursery forms (e.g., ?moo cow?
), even when theadult form of the animal is usually used as aninsult.
Thus calling someone ?a cat?
or ?catty?
isdifferent from describing them as kittenish.Likewise, ?you young pup?
is different from?you dog?.
We are constructing a dictionary ofspecific animals used in slang and as insults, but,more generally, for animals not listed we can useWordNet and electronic dictionaries to determinewhether or not it is the young or mature form ofthe animal that is being used.We have already noted that in metaphor theaffect associated with a source term will carryacross to the target by default.
EMMA alreadyconsults Heise?s compilation of semantic differ-ential profiles for the evaluation value of theverb.
We will extend the determination of theevaluation value to all parts of speech.Having the means to determine the emotionconveyed by a metaphor is most useful whenmetaphor can be reliably spotted.
There are anumber of means of doing this for some meta-phors.
For example, idioms are often metaphori-cal (Moon 1988).
Thus we can use an existingidiom dictionary, adding to it as necessary.
Thiswill work with fixed idioms, but, as is oftennoted, idioms frequently show some degree ofvariation, either by using synonyms of standardlexis, e.g., ?constructing castles in the air?
in-stead of ?building castles in the air?, or by addingmodifiers, e.g., ?shut your big fat mouth?.
Thisvariability will pose a challenge if one is lookingfor fixed expressions from an idiom dictionary.However, if the idiom dictionary is treated asproviding base forms, with for example thenouns being treated as the head nouns of a noun-phrase, then the Rasp parser can be used to de-termine the noun phrase and the modifiers of thehead noun, and likewise with verbs, verb-phrases, etc.
Indeed, this approach can be ex-tended beyond highly fixed expressions to othercases of metaphor, since as Deignan (2005) hasnoted metaphors tend to display a much greaterdegree of fixedness compared to non-metaphors,whilst not being as fixed as what are convention-ally called idioms.There are other ways of detecting metaphorswhich we could utilise.
Thus, metaphoricity sig-nals (as in Goatly, 1997; Wallington et al, 2003)signal the use of a metaphor in some cases.
Such52signals include phrases such as: so to speak, sortof, almost, picture as.
Furthermore, semanticrestriction violations (Wilks, 1978; Fass, 1997;Mason, 2004), as in ?my car drinks petrol,?
of-ten indicate metaphor, although not all meta-phors violate semantic restrictions.
To determinewhether semantic restrictions are being violated,domain information from ontologies/thesaurisuch as WordNet could be used and/or statisticaltechniques as used by Mason (2004).4 User TestingWe conducted a two-day pilot user test with 39secondary school students in May 2005, in orderto try out and a refine a testing methodology.
Theaim of the testing was primarily to measure theextent to which having EMMA as opposed to aperson play a character affects users?
level ofenjoyment, sense of engagement, etc.
We con-cealed the fact that EMMA was involved in somesessions in order to have a fair test of the differ-ence that is made.
We obtained surprisingly goodresults.
Having a minor bit-part character called?Dave?
played by EMMA as opposed to a personmade no statistically significant difference tomeasures of user engagement and enjoyment, orindeed to user perceptions of the worth of thecontributions made by the character ?Dave?.
Us-ers did comment in debriefing sessions on someutterances of Dave?s, so it was not that there wasa lack of effect simply because users did not no-tice Dave at all.
Also, the frequencies of human?Dave?
and EMMA ?Dave?
being responded toduring the improvisation (sentences of Dave?scausing a response divided by all sentences saidby ?Dave?)
are both roughly around 30%, againsuggesting that users notice Dave.
Additionally,the frequencies of other side-characters beingresponded to are roughly the same as the ?Dave?character ?
?Matthew?
: around 30% and ?Elise?
:around 35%.Furthermore, it surprised us that no user ap-peared to realize that sometimes Dave was com-puter-controlled.
We stress, however, that it isnot an aim of our work to ensure that human ac-tors do not realize this.
More extensive, user test-ing at several Birmingham secondary schools isbeing conducted at the time of writing this paper,now that we have tried out and somewhat modi-fied the methodology.The experimental methodology used in thetesting is as follows, in outline.
Subjects are 14-16 year old students at local Birminghamschools.
Forty students are chosen by eachschool for the testing.
Four two-hour sessionstake place at the school, each session involving adifferent set of ten students.
In a session, themain phases are as follows: an introduction to thesoftware; a First Improvisation Phase, where fivestudents are involved in a School Bullying im-provisation and the remaining five in a Crohn?sDisease improvisation; a Second ImprovisationPhase in which this assignment is reversed; fill-ing out of a questionnaire by the students; andfinally a group discussion acting as a debriefphase.
For each improvisation, characters arepre-assigned to specific students.
Each Improvi-sation Phase involves some preliminaries fol-lowed by ten minutes of improvisation proper.In half of the SB improvisations and half ofthe CD improvisations, the minor character Daveis played by one of the students, and by EMMAin the remaining.
When EMMA plays Dave, thestudent who would otherwise have played him isinstructed to sit at another student?s terminal andthereby to be an audience member.
Students aretold that we are interested in the experiences ofaudience members as well as of actors.
Almostwithout exception students have appeared not tohave suspected that having an audience memberresults from not having Dave played by anotherstudent.
At the end of one exceptional sessionsome students asked whether one of the directorsfrom Hi8us was playing Dave.Of the two improvisations a given student isinvolved in, exactly one involves EMMA play-ing Dave.
This will be the first session or the sec-ond.
This EMMA-involvement order and theorder in which the student encounters SB and CDare independently counterbalanced across stu-dents.The questionnaire is largely composed ofquestions that are explicitly about students?
feel-ings about the experience (notably enjoyment,nervousness, and opinions about the worth of thedramatic contributions of the various characters),with essentially the same set of questions beingasked separately about the SB and the CD im-provisations.
The other data collected are: foreach debrief phase, written minutes and an audioand video record; notes taken by two observerspresent during each Improvisation Phase; andautomatically stored transcripts of the sessionsthemselves, allowing analysis of linguistic formsused and types of interactivity.
To date only thenon-narrative questionnaire answers have beensubjected to statistical analysis, with the sole in-dependent variable being the involvement or oth-erwise of EMMA in improvisations.535 Conclusion and Ongoing WorkWe have implemented a limited degree of affect-detection in an automated bit-part character in ane-drama application, and fielded the actor suc-cessfully in pilot user-testing.
Although there is aconsiderable distance to go in terms of the prac-tical affect-detection that we plan to implement,the already implemented detection is able tocause reasonably appropriate contributions bythe automated character.
We also intend to usethe affect-detection in a module for automaticallygenerating director messages to human actors.In general, our work contributes to the issue ofhow affect/sentiment detection from languagecan contribute to the development of believableresponsive AI characters, and thus to a user?sfeeling of involvement in game playing.
More-over, the development of affect detection andsentiment & subjectivity analysis provides agood test-bed for the accompanying deeper re-search into how affect is conveyed linguistically.AcknowledgementThe project is supported by grant RES-328-25-0009 under the ESRC/EPSRC/DTI ?PACCIT?programme, and its metaphor aspects also byEPSRC grant EP/C538943/1.
We thank our part-ners?Hi8us, Maverick TV and BT?and col-leagues W.H.
Edmondson, S.R.
Glasbey, M.G.Lee and Z. Wen.ReferencesBarnden, J.A., Glasbey, S.R., Lee, M.G.
& Walling-ton, A.M. 2004.
Varieties and Directions of Inter-domain Influence in Metaphor.
Metaphor andSymbol, 19(1), pp.1-30.Briscoe, E. & J. Carroll.
2002.
Robust Accurate Sta-tistical Annotation of General Text.
In Proceedingsof the 3rd International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation, Las Palmas, Gran Ca-naria.
pp.1499-1504.Craggs, R. & Wood.
M. 2004.
A Two DimensionalAnnotation Scheme for Emotion in Dialogue.
InProceedings of AAAI Spring Symposium: Explor-ing Attitude and Affect in Text.Deignan , A.
2005.
Metaphor and corpus Linguistics.John Benjamins.Egges, A., Kshirsagar, S. & Magnenat-Thalmann, N.2003.
A Model for Personality and Emotion Simu-lation, In Proceedings of Knowledge-Based Intelli-gent Information & Engineering Systems(KES2003), Lecture Notes in AI.
Springer-Verlag.Fussell, S. & Moss, M. 1998.
Figurative Language inDescriptions of Emotional States.
In S. R. Fusselland R. J. Kreuz (Eds.
), Social and cognitive ap-proaches to interpersonal communication.
Law-rence Erlbaum.Fass, D. 1997.
Processing metaphor and metonymy.Greenwich, Connecticut: AblexGoatly, A.
1997.
The language of metaphors.Routledge London and New York:Heise, D. R. 1965.
Semantic Differential Profiles for1,000 Most Frequent English Words.
Psychologi-cal Monographs 79, pp.1-31.K?vecses, Z.
1998.
Are There Any Emotion-SpecificMetaphors?
In Speaking of Emotions: Conceptuali-zation and Expression.
Athanasiadou, A. and Ta-bakowska, E.
(eds.
), Berlin and New York: Mou-ton de Gruyter, pp.127-151.Mason, Z.J.
2004.
CorMet: a computational, corpus-based conventional metaphor extraction system.Computational Linguistics 30:1. pp.
23-44.Mateas, M. 2002.
Ph.D. Thesis.
Interactive Drama,Art and Artificial Intelligence.
School of ComputerScience, Carnegie Mellon University.Moon, R. 1998.
Fixed idioms and expressions in Eng-lish.
Clarendon Press: Oxford, U.KOrtony, A., Clore, G.L.
& Collins, A.
1988.
The Cog-nitive Structure of Emotions.
CUPPicard, R.W.
2000.
Affective Computing.
The MITPress.
Cambridge MA.Sharoff, S. 2005.
How to Handle Lexical Semantics inSFL: a Corpus Study of Purposes for Using SizeAdjectives.
Systemic Linguistics and Corpus.
Lon-don: Continuum.Watson, D. & Tellegen, A.
1985.
Toward a Consen-sual Structure of Mood.
Psychological Bulletin, 98,pp.219-235.Zhe, X.
& Boucouvalas, A. C. 2002.
Text-to-EmotionEngine for Real Time Internet Communication.
InProceedings of International Symposium on Com-munication Systems, Networks and DSPs, Stafford-shire University, UK, pp.164-168.Wallington, A.M., Barnden, J.A., Barnden, M.A.,Ferguson, F.J. & Glasbey, S.R.
2003.
Metaphoric-ity Signals: A Corpus-Based Investigation.
Techni-cal Report CSRP-03-5, School of Computer Sci-ence, The University of Birmingham, U.K.Wallington, A.M., Barnden, J.A.
Glasbey S.R.
andLee M. G. 2006.
Metaphorical reasoning with aneconomical set of mappings.
Delta, 22:1Wilks, Y.
(1978).
Making preferences more active.Artificial Intelligence, 10, pp.
75- 9754
