Proceedings of the BioNLP Workshop on Linking Natural Language Processing and Biology at HLT-NAACL 06, pages 114?115,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsBiomedical Term RecognitionWith the Perceptron HMM AlgorithmSittichai Jiampojamarn and Grzegorz Kondrak and Colin CherryDepartment of Computing Science,University of Alberta,Edmonton, AB, T6G 2E8, Canada{sj,kondrak,colinc}@cs.ualberta.caAbstractWe propose a novel approach to the iden-tification of biomedical terms in researchpublications using the Perceptron HMMalgorithm.
Each important term is iden-tified and classified into a biomedical con-cept class.
Our proposed system achievesa 68.6% F-measure based on 2,000 train-ing Medline abstracts and 404 unseentesting Medline abstracts.
The systemachieves performance that is close to thestate-of-the-art using only a small featureset.
The Perceptron HMM algorithm pro-vides an easy way to incorporate many po-tentially interdependent features.1 IntroductionEvery day, new scientific articles in the biomedi-cal field are published and made available on-line.The articles contain many new terms and namesinvolving proteins, DNA, RNA, and a wide vari-ety of other substances.
Given the large volume ofthe new research articles, it is important to developsystems capable of extracting meaningful relation-ships between substances from these articles.
Suchsystems need to recognize and identify biomedicalterms in unstructured texts.
Biomedical term recog-nition is thus a step towards information extractionfrom biomedical texts.The term recognition task aims at locatingbiomedical terminology in unstructured texts.
Thetexts are unannotated biomedical research publica-tions written in English.
Meaningful terms, whichmay comprise several words, are identified in orderto facilitate further text mining tasks.
The recogni-tion task we consider here also involves term clas-sification, that is, classifying the identified termsinto biomedical concepts: proteins, DNA, RNA, celltypes, and cell lines.Our biomedical term recognition task is definedas follows: given a set of documents, in each docu-ment, find and mark each occurrence of a biomedi-cal term.
A term is considered to be annotated cor-rectly only if all its composite words are annotatedcorrectly.
Precision, recall and F-measure are deter-mined by comparing the identified terms against theterms annotated in the gold standard.We believe that the biomedical term recogni-tion task can only be adequately addressed withmachine-learning methods.
A straightforward dic-tionary look-up method is bound to fail becauseof the term variations in the text, especially whenthe task focuses on locating exact term boundaries.Rule-based systems can achieve good performanceon small data sets, but the rules must be definedmanually by domain experts, and are difficult toadapt to other data sets.
Systems based on machine-learning employ statistical techniques, and can beeasily re-trained on different data.
The machine-learning techniques used for this task can be dividedinto two main approaches: the word-based methods,which annotate each word without taking previousassigned tags into account, and the sequence basedmethods, which take other annotation decisions intoaccount in order to decide on the tag for the currentword.We propose a biomedical term identification114system based on the Perceptron HMM algo-rithm (Collins, 2004), a novel algorithm for HMMtraining.
It uses the Viterbi and perceptron algo-rithms to replace a traditional HMM?s conditionalprobabilities with discriminatively trained parame-ters.
The method has been successfully applied tovarious tasks, including noun phrase chunking andpart-of-speech tagging.
The perceptron makes itpossible to incorporate discriminative training intothe traditional HMM approach, and to augment itwith additional features, which are helpful in rec-ognizing biomedical terms, as was demonstrated inthe ABTA system (Jiampojamarn et al, 2005).
Adiscriminative method allows us to incorporate thesefeatures without concern for feature interdependen-cies.
The Perceptron HMM provides an easy andeffective learning algorithm for this purpose.The features used in our system include the part-of-speech tag information, orthographic patterns,word prefix and suffix character strings.
The ad-ditional features are the word, IOB and class fea-tures.
The orthographic features encode the spellingcharacteristics of a word, such as uppercase letters,lowercase letters, digits, and symbols.
The IOB andclass features encode the IOB tags associated withbiomedical class concept markers.2 Results and discussionWe evaluated our system on the JNLPBA Bio-Entityrecognition task.
The training data set contains2,000 Medline abstracts labeled with biomedicalclasses in the IOB style.
The IOB annotation methodutilizes three types of tags: <B> for the beginningword of a term, <I> for the remaining words of aterm, and <O> for non-term words.
For the purposeof term classification, the IOB tags are augmentedwith the names of the biomedical classes; for ex-ample, <B-protein> indicates the first word ofa protein term.
The held-out set was constructedby randomly selecting 10% of the sentences fromthe available training set.
The number of iterationsfor training was determined by observing the pointwhere the performance on the held-out set starts tolevel off.
The test set is composed of new 404 Med-line abstracts.Table 1 shows the results of our system on all fiveclasses.
In terms of F-measure, our system achievesClass Recall Precision F-measureprotein 76.73 % 65.56 % 70.71 %DNA 63.07 % 64.47 % 63.76 %RNA 64.41 % 59.84 % 62.04 %cell type 64.71 % 76.35 % 70.05 %cell line 54.20 % 52.02 % 53.09 %ALL 70.93 % 66.50 % 68.64 %Table 1: The performance of our system on the testset with respect to each biomedical concept class.the average of 68.6%, which a substantial improve-ment over the baseline system (based on longeststring matching against a lists of terms from train-ing data) with the average of 47.7%, and over thebasic HMM system, with the average of 53.9%.
Incomparison with the results of eight participants atthe JNLPBA shared tasks (Kim et al, 2004), oursystem ranks fourth.
The performance gap betweenour system and the best systems at JNLPBA, whichachieved the average up to 72.6%, can be attributedto the use of richer and more complete features suchas dictionaries and Gene ontology.3 ConclusionWe have proposed a new approach to the biomedicalterm recognition task using the Perceptron HMM al-gorithm.
Our proposed system achieves a 68.6% F-measure with a relatively small number of featuresas compared to the systems of the JNLPBA partici-pants.
The Perceptron HMM algorithm is much eas-ier to implement than the SVM-HMMs, CRF, andthe Maximum Entropy Markov Models, while theperformance is comparable to those approaches.
Inthe future, we plan to experiment with incorporat-ing external resources, such as dictionaries and geneontologies, into our feature set.ReferencesM.
Collins.
2004.
Discriminative training methods forhidden markov models: Theory and experiments withperceptron algorithms.
In Proceedings of EMNLP.S.
Jiampojamarn, N. Cercone, and V. Keselj.
2005.
Bi-ological named entity recognition using n-grams andclassification methods.
In Proceedings of PACLING.J.
Kim, T. Ohta, Y. Tsuruoka, Y. Tateisi, and N. Collier.2004.
Introduction to the bio-entity recognition task atJNLPBA.
In Proceedings of JNLPBA.115
