Proceedings of the Third ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 9?16,Trento, Italy, April 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsPolish equivalents of spatial atIwona KnaThe School of EnglishAdam Mickiewicz UniversityPozna, Polandiwona.knas@gmail.comAbstractThis paper explicates how English andPolish select different aspects of a spatialsituation to express coincidence or prox-imity.
Spatial relations verbalized by dif-ferent senses of at in English are re-flected primarily by means of w, na, przyand u in Polish.
First, at is presented asconceptualizing the relation of coinci-dence or proximity with the wholeLandmark (LM) when it is conceived as apoint.
Then, the Polish prepositions areinvestigated ?
how they differ with re-spect to the specific part of the LM that isinvolved in a topological relation.
Al-though the prepositions are available tothe speakers of the respective languagesto render different types of relations, theirsenses overlap in a complex way.1 IntroductionAlthough speakers of English, Polish, Spanish,Korean or any other language encounter thesame spatial relations and configurations, in real-ity they may conceptualize them in differentways because of the language they speak.
AsBowerman (1996, page 160) observes, space isstructured in different ways in different lan-guages because ?
[l]anguages use surprisinglydifferent criteria to calculate similarities and dif-ferences among spatial configurations, and thismeans that their spatial categories cross-cut andintersect each other in complex ways?.
Thus, thedisparate division of space in particular lan-guages arises from the divergent culture-determined conceptualization of entities in thedescription of spatial relations and the role as-signed to the Trajector (TR) and LM in certaincontexts.
In addition, cross-linguistic differencesemerge because the amount and kind of informa-tion that spatial descriptions routinely convey,and the situations that can be characterized read-ily in spatial terms, differ from language to lan-guage.Taking into consideration the way spatial re-lations are expressed by at in English, one mayclaim that few languages possess an equivalentof this preposition, with the rare exception of theFrench preposition ?, analyzed by Vandeloise(1991, pages 157-185).
Such a claim is expressedin the title of Cuyckens?s (1984) paper: ?At: Atypically English preposition?.
Also, Cienki(1989, page 128) defines at as a ?particularlyEnglish preposition?.
Certainly, the semanticdistinctions made by English speakers that re-quire the use of at are not made by Slavic lan-guages, such as Russian, analyzed by Cienki(1987, 1989) or Slovenian and Croatian, investi-gated by ?ari (2001).
Neither are they made inPolish.
As Cuyckens (1984, page 49) remarks,there is no close correspondence between theEnglish at and its Polish translations, as therewould be for the English prepositions in and on,expressed in Polish by w and na.
The point-likequality of the LM and the generality1 of the TR?scoincident location with regard to the LM arenon-existent in Polish; the function that the LMserves seems not to be expressed by any preposi-tion in Polish, either.If this is the case, one is tempted to investi-gate how the point-like LM is reflected in Polishand whether it has any regular exponents in thesystem of spatial relations or whether it is re-flected in a rather irregular manner.
Undoubt-1Obviously, the concept of ?generality?
is subjectiveto a certain extent.
Maciejewski (1996: 76f.
), for ex-ample, considers Polish, English, German and Rus-sian as languages equally specific in defining spatialrelations, as compared to Turkish, which does notcommunicate directly the external, (?adessive?)
orinternal (?inessive?)
relation at all.9edly, Polish speakers must specify the spatialrelation between the TR and the LM more ex-plicitly from the start.
The translations of at inPolish include the prepositions w, na, przy and u.Convergences and divergences between at andits Polish equivalents follow the section present-ing sense distinctions of at.2 The cognitive approach to atIn order to avoid the ?polysemy fallacy?,2 againstwhich Sandra and Rice (1995, page 89) warn,Tyler and Evans?s (2003, pages 47-50) method-ology has been followed to determine the pri-mary sense and distinct senses of at.
Their list ofcriteria includes the occurrence of the earliestattested meaning, predominance in the semanticnetwork, use in composite forms and relations toother spatial prepositions.
Several others, such asdomain basicness, depiction of at in the entriesof monolingual dictionaries, and frequency of theuse, have been added by the author.What seems to matter in the identification ofdistinct senses is an additional layer which is notapparent in any other senses associated with anyparticular form: a distinct sense must involveeither a non-spatial relation or a different con-figuration between the TR and LM.
Second, in-stances of the new sense must be context-independent, that is, the distinct sense cannot beinferred from another sense and the context inwhich it occurs (Tyler and Evans 2003, pages42-45).Having considered all the aforementioned c-riteria, the primary sense is assumed to depict aspatial relation between a TR and a point-likeLM regarded as a point of reference, as in (1)(Figure 1):(1) I?m at my grandma?s.Figure 1.
The primary sense ?
Subschema 1The LM has its interior and the TR can be situ-ated either within the LM?s interior or its region;2By the ?polysemy fallacy?
Sandra (1998) means the falla-cious assumption that a fine-grained account in the identifi-cation of distinct senses will be accepted just because it islogically possible.
Yet, the fact that a linguist can come upwith an elaborate and plausible semantic network for a par-ticular form does not indicate that this is how language us-ers represent the meanings associated with such forms.the dimensionality, size and shape of the LM arenot important.
Important, however, is the factthat we can localize the TR with regard to theLM.Once the primary sense of AT has been estab-lished, distinct senses can be identified.
Although(2),(2) Paul is at the dentist?s,depicts inclusion in the LM?s confines or region,and hence the same spatial relation as in (1), itindicates some function that the LM performs.LMs such as the dentist?s include informationabout the reason why the TR is at that particularplace.
In other words, the place that the TR visitsimplies its special function and/or the personwho provides the service:Figure 2.
Subschema 2In Figure 2 the LM?s function is depicted bymeans of arrows directed at the TR; they are anindication of the influence the LM has on the TR.The LM takes a cubical, not a point-like, shapein order to convey its interaction with the TR.Example (3) qualifies for the distinction ofanother sense represented by the subschema inFigure 3:(3) Mark is sitting at the computer.In examples (1) and (2) we dealt with the TRoriented somewhere inside the LM, and hencewith ?internal proximity?.
In (3) the TR is outsidethe LM, and therefore the relation depicts ?exter-nal proximity?.
Subschema 3 depicts the TR ori-ented externally in the front region of the LM,with some interaction taking place between theTR and LM, indicated in Figure 3 by the arrows.The TR, Mark, is situated in front of the com-puter because he is probably using it.
It is impor-tant to notice that the TR is in the front region ofthe LM.Figure 3.
Subschema 310When we consider examples in (4):(4) a. Mary is at the gate.b.
I have a small table at the side of my bed.c.
They met at the corner of West Street andPark Street,again they depict externally located TRs, Mary, asmall table or they, with regard to two- or one-dimensional LMs, the gate, a small table or thecorner, but the LMs perform no function here.
Inthis case, the TR does not have to be oriented inthe LM?s front region.
It suffices that it is in theLM?s proximity.
Neither the dimensions nor theLM?s size or shape are important.
The sub-schema of this sense represents only the externallocation of the TR in relation to the LM.
Thesmaller the LM, the more precise the TR?s posi-tion becomes.
The possible configurations ofSubschema 4 are depicted in Figure 4:(a)      (b)   (c)Figure 4.
Subschema 4In Figure 4, the cuboid-shaped TR is locatedclose to the point-like LM taking the form of ablack dot in (a), one-dimensional LM repre-sented by a line in (b), and the two-dimensionalLMs, oriented horizontally or vertically, in (c).Another sense of static at involves the part-whole relation.
Thus, Subschema 5 depicts a re-lation between the TR located with regard to apart of the LM, as in:(5) Soon we were at the edge of the woods.Usually, in such cases the front-back or top-bottom orientation is evoked.
Because the LM asa whole is too extensive or too imprecise to lo-cate another entity, a part thereof is designatedfor this purpose.
In Figure 5, the designated partof the LM, with respect to which the TR is lo-cated, is highlighted in the elongated sphericalshape.
The TR is represented by a cuboid shape.Figure 5.
Subschema 5Yet another distinct sense evokes the conceptof scale.
Consider example (6):(6) There are fewer fish at 2,000 metres belowsea.Figure 6.
Subschema 6Subschema 6 construes the TR in space with pre-cise or approximate measurement of distance.Thus, the LM is a point on the metric scale, as isdepicted in Figure 6.The choice of the term dynamic for the lastsubschema of at can be justified by the TR?smovement towards the LM, as opposed to thestatic sense of at.
Consider:(7) The tall man is aiming a dart at the bull?seye.Also, it expresses the force dynamics aspectwhich is involved in the relation (cf.
Talmy1988).Figure 7.
Dynamic atIn Figure 7, the TR is distant from the LM,but is moving in its direction along the trajectorymarked with a broken arrow.
The diagram doesnot indicate whether the TR reaches the LM; thearrow is coincident with the circular LM: al-though dynamic at does not indicate that the TRaccomplishes the goal, it does not exclude such apossibility.
The dynamic at relation construes acomplex atemporal relation, as it is not reducedto a single consistent configuration, as was thecase with the static scene (Langacker 1987,pages 220- 221).3 At vs. w + LOCPolish w + LOC can serve as a translation of atin a considerable number of instances belongingto Subschemas 1 and 2.
However, certain restric-spacetimeLMTRtrajectory11tions are imposed on the container in the positionof the LM for such translation to be possible.Firstly, the locations construed in English as one-dimensional reference points are conceptualizedin Polish as containers with boundaries delimit-ing the position of the TR on all sides.
Entitiesfeasible in the position of the LM include alltypes of buildings and institutions, such as ho-tels, night clubs, etc.
Consider the followingexample:(8) We spent a night at a motel.
?Spdzilimy noc w motelu.
?A motel represents a LM which constitutes anidealized cubical container.
Sometimes, institu-tions are represented metonymically by theproper names of cities, in which they are located.However, the whole community must associatethe city, with the institutions located in them.
In(9):(9) He?re at Oxford.
?On studiuje w Oksfordzie.
?the LM, Oxford, stands for, a university which iswell known to the British public.
In Polish,names of cities often collocate with w + LOC;hence, the translation is ?w Oksfordzie?.
How-ever, if the phrase was stripped of the metonymy,w + LOC would no longer be possible althoughat would still be used in English.
The translationof at in the non-metonymic sentence, He?s atuniversity in Oxford would be: ?On studiuje nauniwersytecie w Oksfordzie?, i.e.
na + LOC.Some instances of Subschema 1 conceptual-ize the LM as a point rather than a multi-dimensional entity, but in Polish such cases arestill depicted by means of w + LOC.
By way ofexample consider the following sentence:(10) He had his leg amputated at the hip.
?Amputowali mu nog w biodrze.
?The LM, the hip, is conceptualized as the pointwhere the entity begins, its part used metonymi-cally to represent the whole.
In Polish, by con-trast, it is still conceptualized as a three-dimensional volume characterized by thicknessand boundaries.Alternatively, a place can be conceptual-ized as a point on the map in order to be trans-lated with w + LOC, as in:(11) her estates at Balmoral?jej posiad?oci w Balmoral?In (11) the Queen?s properties were being enu-merated, and the concept of Great Britain as anisland on the map was bound to appear in thespeaker?s mind.As Sysak-Boroska (1980, page 39) ob-serves, ?with ?point-apprehensibility?
being to-tally alien to the Polish system of locative con-cepts, there is at least one such discipline forwhich the notion of ?point?
is fundamental andunavoidable.?
Geometry appears to be the onlydiscipline dealing with points, lines, planes andintersections in Polish.
Below is an examplequoted after Sysak-Boroska (1980, page 39):(12) Two circles cut at A and B.?Dwa okrgi przecinaj si w punktach A i B.?Apparently, the TR?s location is that of an ideal-ized point both in English and Polish.
Yet, inPolish the point is rendered as the LM which en-closes or envelops the TR, a relation conveyedby in.
In English, on the other hand, the relationis that of coincidence and hence at is used.Apart from the LMs belonging to Subschema1, conceived as mere reference points, oneshould mention those which perform some func-tion and constitute members of Subschema 2.Their relation with regard to the TR is also ren-dered by w + LOC in Polish:(13) He is still at school.
?On jest jeszcze w szkole.
?Like (8), example (13) depicts inclusion withinthe confines or region of the LM.
Again, thepoint-like LM in English corresponds to the con-ceptualization of a three-dimensional LM in Pol-ish.
In both languages, the sentence additionallyindicates some function that the LM performs.The functionality of particular LMs is notequally spread across cultures.
Schools havefunctional associations in both English and Pol-ish.
However, in Polish on many occasions it isthe context which specifies the LM?s functionrather than the LM itself.
In English the sentenceMark is at the office implies some work thatmust be done by the TR in the location of theLM.
The Polish translation of the sentence,?Marek jest w biurze?, only indicates the TR?slocation but not the reason why the TR is there.Only the context could fill in the information.The use of w is also present in translations ofdynamic at.
A certain class of verbs tends to ap-12pear in such contexts which denote movement bythe hand or a leg aiming at some point located onsomebody?s body or on an object.
The movementis rather violent and abrupt; hence, all types ofthrowing actions are involved: to throw sth atsomeone/something ?rzuci czym w kogo/co?.In all these cases a point-like target is presup-posed for at.
However, in Polish the LM is con-strued as a container regardless of the limitedamount of contact between the TR and LM.
Sy-sak-Boroska (1980, page 42) remarks that it isthe verbs that presuppose a point-like target.4 At vs. na + LOCNa + LOC seems to constitute the closest Polishequivalent of the sense of at which indicatesgeneral internal location.
This sense of at is rep-resented by Subschema 1, where the LM, whosedimensions, size and shape are ignored, andwhich is conceptualized as a point, coincideswith the TR.
The coincidence of the two entitiesmay involve the TR?s location within the LM?sinterior or its region.
Important is the fact that wecan localize the TR with regard to the LM.
Justas at conceptualizes the LM as a point of refer-ence for the TR, so na + LOC indicates the gen-eral location of the TR with regard to the LM(Sysak-Boroska 1980, page 70; Cienki 1989,pages 110-111.; Dancygier 2000, page 30).
Thissense of na does not necessarily imply contactbetween the TR and LM, a characteristic featureof the preposition, but rather forms some associa-tion between the two entities.
Thus, it is the mostappropriate equivalent of at in the following sen-tence:(15) He is waiting at the airport.
?On czeka na lotnisku.
?In the above sentence we do not know whereprecisely the TR is located; what is known isonly its approximate location with regard to theLM as the point of reference.
This type of rela-tion works for both at and na + LOC.The tendency to indicate general location bymeans of na + LOC, as Sysak-Boroska (1980,page 70) notes, has grown since the 1960s in col-loquial Polish, particularly with reference to theplace of work.
In such occurrences reference tobuildings and institutions is made.
Consider:(16) M?j tata pracuje na poczcie.
?My father works at the post office.
?If the functional aspect of such use of na + LOCwere present, as maintained by Awdiejew (1977,page 107), the verb by ?to be?
instead of pra-cowa ?to work?, etc., should also bring someassociations with an activity undertaken in thelocation.
However, the sentence becomes ratherambiguous then:(17) M?j tata jest na poczcie.
?My father is at the post office.
?Unless some context is provided, (17) will indi-cate general location of the TR, m?j tata ?myfather?, in the region of the LM, poczta ?the postoffice?.Understandably, not all occurrences of na +LOC in such contexts are translatable with at:(18) M?j tata pracuje na kolei.
?My father works for/*at the railway company.
?Therefore, the use of na + LOC to indicate gen-eral location translatable into at in English is re-stricted.
Clear rules of its occurrence are hard toformulate, though.Na + LOC is also appropriate as a translationof at in a number of topographical and geo-graphical locations.
As for the first group, na +LOC is used when the LMs are construed as de-void of clear boundaries, e.g.
:(19) Men are working at the construction site.
?Mczyni pracuj na placu budowy.
?In that case, LMs are usually two-dimensionalentities constituting a part of the city.Finally, na + LOC constitutes a translation ofat in some part-whole relations.
An extreme partof the LM is the location of the TR:(20) The house was at the end of the street.
?Dom znajdowa?
si na kocu ulicy.
?To a certain extent, na + LOC shares this func-tion with u + GEN, e.g.
:(21) Soon we were at the edge of the woods.
?Wkr?tce bylimy na/u skraju lasu.
?Sometimes na + LOC functions as anequivalent of at in the case of the external prox-imity of Subschema 4, and then it often alter-nates with przy + LOC.
The TR bears a lateralrelation to the LM, but the position is not precise,and it may be considered as coincident or rather13contiguous with the LM, contiguity being usuallyreflected by means of na + LOC in Polish.Hence, the substitution of przy for na is possible:(22) They met at the corner of West Street andPark Street.
?Spotkali si na/przy rogu ulic West Streeti Park Street.
?Similar to the English at of Subschema 6, na+ LOC is also used with points of a scale.
Thissubschema includes cases where the distance of ajourney is involved.
Consider:(23) At 2,000 metres below sea level there arefewer fish.
?Na g?bokoci 2000 m poniej poziomu mo-rza jest mniej ryb.
?Again, this usage of na + LOC is limited, andother prepositions, including pod (e.g.
at an an-gle ?pod ktem?
), are applicable.5 At vs. przy + LOCSubschemas 3 and 4 of at represent externalproximity, a feature characteristic also of the Pol-ish przy.
Generally, the preposition conceptual-izes a TR situated in proximity to a three-dimensional LM, where direct contact is possi-ble.
The TR can be situated very close to thefront, back, or one of the sides of the LM.
How-ever, the sense of przy overlaps with that of atonly when the TR is related either to the LM?sfront or back.
What is more, in the majority ofinstances the function of the LM is implied, as in(24a), or some connection when the two entitiesare inanimate, as in (24b):(24)a.
Mark is sitting at the computer.
?Marek siedzi przy komputerze.?b.
a chair at the tablekrzes?o przy stole?In (24a), the examples involve a TR oriented invery close proximity to the LM.
As indicated byKlebanowska (1969, page 185), the TR is ori-ented towards the functional side of the LM, andhence is capable of using it.
The functionality ofthe LM is present both in English and Polish.
Ifthere is no function present, the relation is stillrendered by means of przy in Polish and by inEnglish.
Consider:(25) Martha is standing by the car.
?Marta stoi przy samochodzie.
?A distinction must be made, however, for therelation where the TR takes the lateral positiontowards the LM, and when the LM is construedas a linear entity.
The TR and the LM must beoriented towards each other vertically not hori-zontally, and both at and by are applicable:(26) He parked the car at/by the kerb.?Zaparkowa?
samoch?d przy krawniku.
?According to Przybylska (2002, pages 496-497), the LM can also be idealized as a point inthe przy-relation, which appears to be the mostcharacteristic feature of at.
All geometrical fea-tures of the LM are irrelevant ?
only the close-ness of the TR to the LM, or their contact, is atissue.
Consider the following example:(27) We met at the monument.
?Spotkalimy si przy pomniku.
?However, the extent to which the TR is used as aone-dimensional point in English with the use ofat, and in Polish with przy, differs considerably,one-dimensional LMs being much more commonin English.6 At vs. u + LOCOccurrences of the preposition at which can berendered in Polish by means of u + GEN belongpredominantly to Subschemas 1 and 2.
Someadditional but rare instances can be found in thetranslations of Subschema 5 representing thepart-whole relation.
The first subschema, an in-stance of which is provided in (28), takes theSaxon genitive in the position of the LM:(28) Let?s meet at Tom?s.
?Spotkajmy si u Tomka.
?English at and Polish u + GEN in this type ofoccurrence may indicate either the owner of theplace or its user.
The name of a person collocat-ing with the English preposition, or its Polishequivalent, metonymically stands for the placethey own or live in.Subschema 2 also takes the Saxon genitive.Here, the person metonymically stands for theplace where they provide some service related totheir occupation.
The function of the place isusually implied, as in instances (29):14(29) Marie is at the butcher?s.
?Maria jest u rzenika.
?Sentence (29) indicates the reason why the TR,Marie, is at the butcher?s; namely, she wants tobuy some meat.
It is worth mentioning that theperson indicated in the Saxon genitive does nothave to be the one who provides the service.
In-stead of the butcher, it can be his assistant whosells meat.Understandably, some regular uses of u +GEN turn out to be untranslatable by at in Eng-lish.
As Topoliska (1984, pages 282-284) notes,there are a number of instances where u + GENcollocates with the name of a person, which im-plies the service that person provides but not thelocation.
Consider (30):(30) Ucz si angielskiego u profesor Kowal-skiej.
?I study English with professor Kowalska.?
*?I am taught English at professor Kowalska?s.
?In the above example profesor Kowalska is theperson who provides the service.
Nevertheless,no implication of the LM of the service is made.Thus, the sentence can be interpreted as ?Profes-sor Kowalska teaches me English?
rather than?Professor Kowalska?s place is where I amtaught English?.
The service provider does noteven have to be a professional for u + GEN to beapplicable in Polish, as in:(31) Czesz si u pani Smith.
?I have my hair done by Mrs Smith.?
*?I have my hair done at Mrs Smith?s?.Thus, it is not the location but the agent which isindicated in the u-construction in the two exam-ples.
It is rendered perfectly in English by thepreposition by whose primary function is to in-troduce the agent.
Of course, it is the verb thatreveals the type of service that is provided in aparticular location.Another less frequent occurrence of u + GENrefers to the extreme part of the LM.
In the ma-jority of cases the part-whole relation of the LMis involved, where the contact between the TRand LM is apprehended as involving merely apoint.
Thus, the most prominent part of the LMis the location of the TR.
Contact between theTR and LM is a possible but not a necessaryelement of the configuration.
Consider:(32) She came with two little dogs at her heels.
?Przysz?a z dwoma ma?ymi pieskami u no-gi.
?,where the TR, two little dogs, is rather unlikelyto touch the LM, her heels.
Regardless of thedegree of contact in the real world, it is assumedthat little contact is involved.U + GEN is not the only translation of thisrelation; na + LOC is also a frequent rendition ofthe part-whole at-relation in English.
However, anumber of instances of u + GEN, such as u sufitu?at the ceiling?, constitute stylistically markedindividual instances of this occurrence which isalso possible with przy + LOC: przy suficie ?bythe ceiling?.U + GEN is also applicable when the TRconstitutes a part of the LM, but the contact be-tween them is limited to an idealized point:(33) klamka u drzwi?a handle on the door?
*?a handle at the door?As indicated in the translation of the examples in(33), the part-whole relation cannot be renderedby means of at in English.7 ConclusionThe degree of similarity displayed by the re-spective pairs of equivalents has been investi-gated in the paper, as well as the points whichare a source of divergences between the two spa-tial systems.
It has been observed that the closestequivalent of at disregarding the dimensionalproperties displayed by the LM is na + LOC.Sysak-Boroska (1980, pages 730-731), who hasobserved this regularity, does not hesitate tostress, however, that the preposition does nothave an equal status with at in English.
The re-striction arises from the fact that this use of na isnot well-established in all contexts, nor is itequally well received in all varieties of Polish.Thus, it must be noted that at from Subschema 1and the colloquial na + LOC play a similar rolein the respective spatial systems only to a limitedextent.As for the conclusions ensuing from thecomparison of external relations, although atconstitutes the first translation of przy in bilin-gual Polish-English dictionaries (e.g., NKFDPE),the Polish preposition has also such Englishequivalents as by, near, beside or next to, imply-ing a position on the side of a three- or two-dimensional LM.15To sum up, the two languages fail to coin-cide in the application of the concept of theproximous location, interior or exterior, which isconnected with a different manner of conceptual-izing the point-like LM in the two systems.
Pri-marily, a different scope of reference of the gen-eral internal location in the two languages be-comes the source of divergence displayed by alarger amount of details included in the spatialrelation of the Polish system.
Also, the externalrelation turns out not to possess ideal synonyms,which this time stems from a wider scope of ref-erence of the Polish preposition.
All in all, thereis no strict translation equivalence between atand any of the posited Polish translations.
Theabove cognitive account seems to be tenable atleast so much as to systematize the use of at inrelation to its main Polish counterparts and tomake the use of at easier for advanced Polishusers of English.ReferencesAwdiejew, Aleksander.
1977.
Konkurencja przyim-k?w w/na w jzyku polskim i rosyjskim.
J-zykowy, 3:106-110.Bowerman, Melissa.
1996.
The origins of children?sspatial semantic categories: Cognitive versus lin-guistic determinants.
In John J. Gumperz andStephen C. Levinson, editors, Rethinking Lin-guistic Relativity.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, pages 145-176.Cienki, Alan.
1987.
Selected Polish spatial preposi-tions and their Russian counterparts in form andmeaning.
Canadian Slavonic Papers, 19:1-23.Cienki, Alan.
1989.
Spatial Cognition and the Se-mantics of Prepositions in English, Polish,and Russian.
Sagner, Munich.Cuyckens, Hubert.
1984.
At: A typically Englishpreposition.
Papers and Studies in Contras-tive Linguistics, 19:49-64.Dancygier, Barbara.
2000.
How Polish structuresspace: Prepositions, direction nouns, case, andmetaphor.
In Ad Foolen and Frederike van derLeek, editors, Constructions in Cognitive Lin-guistics: Selected Papers from the 5th Inter-national Cognitive Linguistics Conference,Amsterdam, 1997, pages 27-45.
Benjamins,Amsterdam.Fisiak, Jacek (ed.).
2003.
The New KosciuszkoFoundation Dictionary: Polish-English[NKFDPE].
Universitas, Krak?w.Klebanowska, Barbara.
1969.
Funkcja przyimka przezi za.
Jzyk Polski, 49:183-192.Langacker, Ronald W. 1987.
Foundations of Cogni-tive Grammar: Theoretical Prerequisites,volume 1.
Stanford University Press, Stanford.Maciejewski, Witold.
1996.
O Przestrzeni wJzyku: Studium Typologiczne z JzykiemPolskim w Centrum.
Wydawnictwo NaukoweUAM, Pozna.Przybylska, Renata.
2002.
Polisemia Przyimk?wPolskich w wietle Semantyki Kognitywnej.Universitas, Krak?w.Sandra, Dominiek.
1998.
What linguists can and can?ttell us about the mind: A reply to Croft.
Cogni-tive Linguistics, 9(4):361-378.Sandra, Dominiek and Sally Rice.
1995.
Networkanalyses of prepositional meaning: Mirroringwhose mind ?
the linguist?s or the languageuser?s?.
Cognitive Linguistics, 6(1):89-130.?ari, Ljiljana.
2001.
Prepositional categories andprototypes: Contrasting some Russian, Slovenian,Croatian and Polish examples.
Glossos 1.
Re-trieved July 7, 2004, fromhttp://www.seelrc.org/glossos/issues/1/Sysak-Boroska, Maria.
1980.
The Spatial Systemin Polish and English: Prepositions of DirectLocation.
D. Phil.
dissertation, University ofSilesia, Katowice, Poland.Talmy, Leonard.
1988.
Force dynamics in languageand cognition.
Cognitive Science, 12:49-100.Topoliska, Zuzanna.
1984.
O konstrukcjach typu?Czesz si u pana Zenona?.
Acta Baltico-Slavica, 16:279-285.Tyler, Andrea and Vyvyan Evans.
2003.
The Seman-tics of English Prepositions: Spatial Scenes,Embodied Meaning and Cognition.
Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge.Vandeloise, Claude.
1991.
Spatial Prepositions: ACase Study in French.
The University of Chi-cago Press, Chicago.16
