Proceedings of the Workshop on Annotating and Reasoning about Time and Events, pages 30?37,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsEvaluating Knowledge-based Approaches to the Multilingual Extension ofa Temporal Expression NormalizerMatteo NegriITC-irstPovo - Trento, Italynegri@itc.itEstela Saquete, Patricio Mart?
?nez-Barco, Rafael Mun?ozDLSI, University of AlicanteAlicante, Spain{stela,patricio,rafael}@dlsi.ua.esAbstractThe extension to new languages is a wellknown bottleneck for rule-based systems.Considerable human effort, which typi-cally consists in re-writing from scratchhuge amounts of rules, is in fact requiredto transfer the knowledge available to thesystem from one language to a new one.Provided sufficient annotated data, ma-chine learning algorithms allow to mini-mize the costs of such knowledge trans-fer but, up to date, proved to be ineffec-tive for some specific tasks.
Among these,the recognition and normalization of tem-poral expressions still remains out of theirreach.
Focusing on this task, and still ad-hering to the rule-based framework, thispaper presents a bunch of experiments onthe automatic porting to Italian of a systemoriginally developed for Spanish.
Differ-ent automatic rule translation strategies areevaluated and discussed, providing a com-prehensive overview of the challenge.1 IntroductionIn recent years, inspired by the success of MUCevaluations, a growing number of initiatives (e.g.TREC1, CLEF2, CoNLL3, Senseval4) have beendeveloped to boost research towards the automaticunderstanding of textual data.
Since 1999, the Au-tomatic Content Extraction (ACE) program5 hasbeen contributing to broaden the varied scenarioof evaluation campaigns by proposing three main1http://trec.nist.gov2http://clef-campaign.org3http://www.cnts.ua.ac.be/conll4http://www.senseval.org5http://www.nist.gov/speech/tests/acetasks, namely the recognition of entities, rela-tions, and events.
In 2004, the Timex2 Detec-tion and Recognition task6 (also known as TERN,for Time Expression Recognition and Normaliza-tion) has been added to the ACE program, makingthe whole evaluation exercise more complete.
Themain goal of the task was to foster research on sys-tems capable of automatically detecting temporalexpressions (TEs) present in an English text, andnormalizing them with respect to a specifically de-fined annotation standard.Within the above mentioned evaluation exer-cises, the research activity on monolingual taskshas gradually been complemented by a consid-erable interest towards multilingual and cross-language capabilities of NLP systems.
This trendconfirms how portability across languages hasnow become one of the key challenges for Natu-ral Language Processing research, in the effort ofbreaking the language barrier hampering systems?application in many real use scenarios.
In this di-rection, machine learning techniques have becomethe standard approach in many NLP areas.
Thisis motivated by several reasons, including i) thefact that considerable amounts of annotated data,indispensable to train ML-based algorithms, arenow available for many tasks, and ii) the difficulty,inherent to rule-based approaches, of porting lan-guage models from one language to new ones.
Infact, while supervised ML algorithms can be eas-ily extended to new languages given an annotatedtraining corpus, rule-based approaches require toredefine the set of rules, adapting them to each newlanguage.
This is a time consuming and costlywork, as it usually consists in manually rewritingfrom scratch huge amounts of rules.6http://timex2.mitre.org30In spite of their effectiveness for some tasks,ML techniques still fall short from providing ef-fective solutions for others.
This is confirmed bythe outcomes of the TERN 2004 evaluation, whichprovide a clear picture of the situation.
In spiteof the good results obtained in the TE recognitiontask (Hacioglu et al, 2005), the normalization bymeans of ML techniques has not been tackled yet,and still remains an unresolved problem.Considering the inadequacy of ML techniquesto deal with the normalization problem, and fo-cusing on portability across languages, this pa-per extends and completes the previous work pre-sented in (Saquete et al, 2006b) and (Saquete etal., 2006a).
More specifically, we address the fol-lowing crucial issue: how to minimize the costsof building a rule-based TE recognition systemfor a new language, given an already existing sys-tem for another language.
Our goal is to experi-ment with different automatic porting proceduresto build temporal models for new languages, start-ing from previously defined ones.
Still adheringto the rule-based paradigm, we analyse differentporting methodologies that automatically learn theTE recognition model used by the system in onelanguage, adjusting the set of normalization rulesfor the new target language.In order to provide a clear and comprehen-sive overview of the challenge, an incremental ap-proach is proposed.
Starting from the architectureof an existing system developed for Spanish (Sa-quete et al, 2005), we present a bunch of exper-iments which take advantage of different knowl-edge sources to build an homologous system forItalian.
Building on top of each other, such exper-iments aim at incrementally analyzing the contri-bution of additional information to attack the TEnormalization task.
More specifically, the follow-ing information will be considered:?
The output of online translators;?
The information mined from a manually an-notated corpus;?
A combination of the two.2 The task: TE recognition andnormalizationThe TERN task consists in automatically detect-ing, bracketing, and normalizing all the time ex-pressions mentioned within an English text.
Therecognized TEs are then annotated according tothe TIMEX2 annotation standard described in(Ferro et al, 2005).
Markable TEs include bothabsolute (or explicit) expressions (e.g.
?April 15,2006?
), and relative (or anaphoric) expressions(e.g.
?three years ago?).
Also markable are du-rations (e.g.
?two weeks?
), event-anchored ex-pressions (e.g.
?two days before departure?
), andsets of times (e.g.
?every week?).
Detection andbracketing concern systems?
capability to recog-nize TEs within an input text, and correctly deter-mine their extension.
Normalization concerns theability of the system to correctly assign, for eachdetected TE, the correct values to the TIMEX2normalization attributes.
The meaning of these at-tributes can be summarized as follows:?
VAL: contains the normalized value of a TE(e.g.
?2004-05-06?
for ?May 6th, 2004?)?
ANCHOR VAL: contains a normalized formof an anchoring date-time.?
ANCHOR DIR: captures the relativedirection-orientation between VAL andANCHOR VAL.?
MOD: captures temporal modifiers (pos-sible values include: ?approximately?,?more than?, ?less than?)?
SET: identifies expressions denoting sets oftimes (e.g.
?every year?
).2.1 The evaluation benchmarkMoving to a new language, an evaluation bench-mark is necessary to test systems performances.For this purpose, the temporal annotations of theItalian Content Annotation Bank (I-CAB-temp7)have been selected.I-CAB consists of 525 news documentstaken from the Italian newspaper L?Adige(http://www.adige.it), and contains around182,500 words.
Its 3,830 temporal expressions(2,393 in the training part of the corpus, and 1,437in the test part) have been manually annotatedfollowing the TIMEX2 standard with some adap-tations to the specific morpho-syntactic featuresof Italian, which has a far richer morphology thanEnglish (see (Magnini et al, 2006) for furtherdetails).7I-CAB is being developed as part of the three-yearproject ONTOTEXT funded by the Provincia Autonoma diTrento, Italy.
See http://tcc.itc.it/projects/ontotext313 The starting point: TERSEOAs a starting point for our experiments we usedTERSEO, a system originally developed for theautomatic annotation of TEs appearing in a Span-ish written text in compliance with the TIMEX2standard (see (Saquete, 2005) for a thorough de-scription of TERSEO?s main features and func-tionalities).TEXTPOSTAGGERRECOGNITION:PARSERLexical andmorphologicalinformationTemporalexpressionrecognitionDATEESTIMATIONDictionaryTemporalExpressionGrammarTEMPORALEXPRESSIONNORMALIZATIONEVENTORDERINGORDEREDTEXTDocumentalDataBaseFigure 1: System?s architecture.Basically (see Figure 1), the TE recognitionand normalization process is carried out in twophases.
The first phase (recognition) includes apre-processing of the input text, which is taggedwith lexical and morphological information thatwill be used as input to a temporal parser.
Thetemporal parser is implemented using an as-cending technique (chart parser) and relies on alanguage-specific temporal grammar.
As TEs canbe divided into absolute and relative ones, suchgrammar is tuned for discriminating between thetwo groups.
On the one hand, absolute TEs di-rectly provide and fully describe a date.
On theother hand, relative TEs require some degree ofreasoning (as in the case of anaphora resolution).In the second phase of the process, in order totranslate these expressions into their normalizedform, the lexical context in which they occur isconsidered.
At this stage, a normalization unitis in charge of determining the appropriate refer-ence date (anchor) associated to each anaphoricTE, calculating its value, and finally generating thecorresponding TIMEX2 tag.
?From a multilingual perspective, an impor-tant feature of TERSEO is the distinction betweenrecognition rules, which are language-specific,and normalization rules, which are language-independent and potentially reusable for any otherlanguage.
Taking the most from the modular ar-chitecture of the system, a first multilingual exten-sion has been evaluated over the English TERN2004 test set.
In that extension, the Englishtemporal model was automatically obtained fromthe Spanish one, through the automatic transla-tion into English8 of the Spanish TEs recognizedby the system (Saquete et al, 2004).
The re-sulting English TEs were then mapped onto thecorresponding language-independent normaliza-tion rules, with good results (compared with otherparticipants to the competition) both in terms ofprecision and recall.
These results are shown inTable 1.Prec Rec Ftimex2 0.673 0.728 0.699anchor dir 0.658 0.877 0.752anchor val 0.684 0.912 0.782set 0.800 0.667 0.727text 0.770 0.620 0.690val 0.757 0.735 0.746Table 1: Evaluation of English-TERSEO over theTERN 2004 test setThe positive results of this experience demon-strated the viability of the adopted solutions, andmotivate our further investigation with Italian as anew target language.4 Porting TERSEO to ItalianDue to the separation between language-specificrecognition rules and language-independent nor-malization rules, the bulk of the porting processrelies on the adaptation of the recognition rulesto the new target language.
Taking advantage ofdifferent knowledge sources (either alone or incombination), an incremental approach has beenadopted, in order to determine the contribution ofadditional information on the performance of theresulting system for Italian.8Altavista Babel Fish Translation has been used for thispurpose (http://world.altavista.com).324.1 Using online translatorsAs a first experiment, the same procedure adoptedfor the extension to English has been followed.This represents the simplest approach for portingTERSEO to other languages, and will be consid-ered as a baseline for comparison with the resultsachieved in further experiments.
The only minordifference with respect to the original procedureis that now, since two aligned sets of recognitionrules (i.e.
for Spanish and for English) are avail-able, both models have been used.
The reason forconsidering both models is the fact that they com-plement each other: on the one hand, the Span-ish model was obtained manually and showed highprecision values in detection (88%); on the otherhand, although the English model showed lowerprecision results in detection (77%), the on-linetranslators from English to Italian perform betterthan translators from Spanish to Italian.The process is carried out in the following foursteps.1.
Eng-Ita translation.
All the English TEsknown by the system are translated into Ital-ian9.
Starting English, the probability of ob-taining higher quality translations is maxi-mized.2.
Spa-Ita translation.
For each English TEwithout an Italian translation, the correspond-ing Spanish expression is translated into Ital-ian.
Also the Spanish TEs that do not have anEnglish equivalent are translated from Span-ish10 into Italian.
This way, the coverageof the resulting model is maximized, becom-ing comparable to the hand-crafted Spanishmodel.3.
TE Filtering.
A filtering module is used toguarantee the correctness of the translations.For this purpose, the translated expressionsare searched in the Web with Google.
If anexpression is not found by Google it is givenup; otherwise it is considered as a valid Ital-ian TE.
The inconvenience of adopting thissimple filtering strategy occurs in case of am-biguous expressions, i.e.
when a correct ex-pression is obtained through translation, and9Also for English to Italian translation, Altavista BabelFish Translation has been used10Using the Spanish-Italian translator available athttp://www.tranexp.com:2000/Translate/result.shtmlGoogle returns at least on document contain-ing it, but the expression is not a tempo-ral one.
In these cases the system will er-roneously store in its database non-temporalexpressions.
In this experiment the resultsreturned by Google have not been analyzed(only the number of hits has been taken intoaccount), nor the impact of these errors hasbeen estimated.
A more precise analysis ofthe output of the web search has been left asa future improvement direction.4.
Normalization rules assignment.
Finally,the resulting Italian translations are mappedonto the language-independent normalizationrules associated with the original English andSpanish TEs.The development of this first automatic portingprocedure required one person/week for softwareimplementation, and less than an hour to obtainthe new model for Italian.
The performance of theresulting system, evaluated over the test set of I-CAB, is shown in table 2.Prec Rec Ftimex2 0.725 0.833 0.775anchor dir 0.211 0.593 0.311anchor val 0.203 0.571 0.300set 0.152 1.000 0.263text 0.217 0.249 0.232val 0.364 0.351 0.357Table 2: Porting to Italian based on translationsThe results achieved by the translation-basedapproach are controversial.
On the one hand, weobserve a detection performance in line with theEnglish version of the system.
The timex2 at-tribute, which indicates the proportion of detectedTEs11, has even higher scores, both in terms ofprecision (+5%) and recall (+11%), with respectto the English system.
On the other hand, bothbracketing (see the text attribute, which indicatesthe quality of extent recognition) and normaliza-tion (described by the other attributes) show a per-formance drop.
Unfortunately, the reasons of thisdrop are still unclear.
One possible explanationis that, due to the intrinsic difficulties presentedby the Italian language, the translation-based ap-proach falls short from providing an adequate cov-erage of the many possible TE variants.
While11At least one overlapping character in the extent of thereference and the system output is required for tag aligment.33the presence of lexical triggers denoting a TE ap-pearing in a text (e.g.
the Italian translations of?years?, ?Monday?, ?afternoon?, ?yesterday?)
canbe easily captured by this approach, the complex-ity of many language-specific constructs is out ofits reach.4.2 Using an annotated corpusIn a second experiment, the annotations of thetraining portion of I-CAB have been used as a pri-mary knowledge source.
The main purpose of thisapproach is to maximize the coverage of the Ital-ian TEs, starting from language-specific knowl-edge mined from the corpus.
The basic hypothe-sis is that a bottom-up porting methodology, led byknowledge in the target language, is more effectivethan the top-down approach based on knowledgederived from models built for other languages.The former, in fact, is in principle more suitable tocapture language-specific TE variations.
In orderto test the validity of ths hypothesis, the followingtwo-step process has been set up:1.
TE Collection and translation.
The Italian ex-pressions are collected from the I-CAB train-ing portion, and translated both into Spanishand English.2.
Normalization rules assignment.
Italian TEsare assigned to the appropriate normalizationrules.
For each Italian TE mined from thecorpus, the selection is done considering thenormalization rules assigned to its transla-tions.
If both the Spanish and English ex-pressions are found in their respective mod-els, and are associated with the same normal-ization rule, then this rule is assigned also tothe Italian expression.
Also, when only oneof the translated expressions is found in theexisting models, the normalization rule is as-signed.
In case of discrepancies, i.e.
if bothexpressions are found, but are not associatedto the same normalization rule, then one ofthe languages must be prioritized.
Since themanually obtained Spanish model has showna higher precision, Spanish rules are pre-ferred.As the corpus-based approach is mostly built onthe same software used for the translation-basedporting procedure, it did not require additionaltime for implementation.
Also in this case, thenew model for Italian has been obtained in lessthan one hour.
Performance results calculated overthe I-CAB test set are reported in Table 3.Prec Rec Ftimex2 0.730 0.839 0.781anchor dir 0.412 0.414 0.413anchor val 0.339 0.340 0.339set 0.030 1.000 0.059text 0.222 0.255 0.238val 0.285 0.274 0.279Table 3: Porting based on corpus annotationsThese results partially confirm our working hy-pothesis, showing a performance increase in termsof the Italian TEs correctly recognized by the sys-tem.
In fact, both the timex2 attribute, whichindicates the coverage of the system (detection),and the text attribute, which refers to the TEsextent determination (bracketing), are slightly in-creased.
This may lead to the conclusion that auto-matic porting procedures can actually benefit fromlanguage-specific knowledge derived from a cor-pus.However, looking at the other TIMEX2 at-tributes, the situation is not so clear due to the lesscoherent behaviour of the system on normaliza-tion.
While for two attributes (anchor dir and an-chor val) the system performs better, for the othertwo (set and val) a performance drop is observed.A possible reason for that could be related to thelimited number of TE examples that can be ex-tracted from the Italian corpus (whose dimensionsare relatively small compared to the annotated cor-pora available for English).
In fact, compared tothe sum of English and Spanish examples used forthe translation-based porting procedure, the Ital-ian expressions present in the corpus are fewer andrepetitive.
For instance, with 131, 140, and 30 oc-currences, the expressions ?oggi?
(?today?
), ?ieri?(?yesterday?
), and ?domani?
(?tomorrow?)
repre-sent around 12.5% of the 2,393 Italian TEs con-tained in the I-CAB training set.4.3 Combining online translators and anannotated corpusIn light of the previous considerations, a third ex-periment has been conducted combining the top-down approach proposed in Section 4.1 and thebottom-up approach proposed in Section 4.2.
Theunderlying hypothesis is that the induction of aneffective temporal model for Italian can bene-fit from the combination of the large amount ofexamples coming from translations on the one34side, and from the more precise language-specificknowledge derived from the corpus on the other.To check the validity of this hypothesis, the pro-cess described in Section 4.2 has been modifiedadding an additional phase.
In this phase, the setof TEs derived from I-CAB is augmented with theexpressions already available in the Spanish andEnglish TE sets.
The new porting process is car-ried out in the following steps:1.
TE Collection and translation.
The Italian ex-pressions are collected from the I-CAB train-ing portion, and translated both into Spanishand English.2.
Normalization rules assignment.
With thesame methodology described in Section 4.2(step 2), the Italian TEs mined from the cor-pus are mapped onto the appropriate normal-ization rules assigned to their translations.3.
TE set augmentation.
The set of Italian TEsis automatically augmented with new expres-sions derived from the Spanish and EnglishTE sets.
As described in Section 4.1, theseexpressions are first translated into Italian us-ing on-line translators, then filtered throughWeb searches.
The remaining TEs are in-cluded in the Italian model, and related to thesame normalization rules assigned to the cor-responding Spanish or English TEs.Also this porting experiment was carried outwith minimal modifications of the existing code.The automatic acquisition of the new model forItalian required around one hour.
Evaluation re-sults, calculated over the I-CAB test set are pre-sented in Table 4.Prec Rec Ftimex2 0.726 0.834 0.776anchor dir 0.578 0.475 0.521anchor val 0.516 0.424 0.465set 0.182 1.000 0.308text 0.258 0.296 0.276val 0.564 0.545 0.555Table 4: Porting based on corpus annotations andonline translatorsAs can be seen from the table, the combina-tion of the two approaches leads to an overall per-formance improvement with respect to the previ-ous experiments.
Apart from a slight decrease interms of detection (timex2 attribute), both brack-eting and normalization performance benefit fromsuch combination.
The improvement on bracket-ing (text attribute) is around 4% with respect toboth the previous experiments.
On average, theimprovement for the normalization attributes isaround 15% with respect to the translation-basedmethod (ranging from +4,5% for the set attribute,to +20% for the val attribute), and 20% with re-spect to the corpus-based method (ranging from+11% for the anchor dir attribute, to +30% forthe set attribute).
These performance improve-ments are summarized in Table 5, which reportsthe F-Measure scores achieved by the three port-ing approaches.F-Tran.
F-Corpus F-Comb.timex2 0.775 0.781 0.776anchor dir 0.311 0.413 0.521anchor val 0.300 0.339 0.465set 0.152 0.059 0.308text 0.263 0.238 0.276val 0.232 0.279 0.555Table 5: F-Measure scores comparisonThese results confirm the validity of our work-ing hypothesis, showing that:?
taken in isolation, both the knowledge de-rived from models built for other languages,and the language-specific knowledge derivedfrom an annotated corpus, have a limited im-pact on the system?s performance;?
taken in combination, the top-down and thebottom-up approaches can complement eachother, allowing to cope with the complexityof the porting task.5 Comparing TERSEO with alanguage-specific systemFor the sake of completeness, the results achievedby our combined porting procedure have beencompared with those achieved, over the I-CABtest set, by a system specifically designed forItalian.
The ITA-Chronos system (Negri andMarseglia, 2004), a multilingual system for therecognition and normalization of TEs in Italianand English, has been used for this purpose.
Up todate, being among the two top performing systemsat TERN 2004, Chronos represents the state-of-the-art with respect to the TERN task.
In addition,to the best of our knowledge, this is the only sys-tem effectively dealing with the Italian language.35Like all the other state-of-the-art systems ad-dressing the recognition/normalization task, ITA-Chronos is a rule-based system.
From a designpoint of view, it shares with TERSEO a rathersimilar architecture which relies on different setsof rules.
These are regular expressions that checkfor specific features of the input text, such as thepresence of particular word senses, lemmas, partsof speech, symbols, or strings satisfying specificpredicates12 .
Each set of rules is in charge ofdealing with different aspects of the problem.
Inparticular, a set of around 350 rules is designedfor TE recognition and is capable of recognizingwith high Precision/Recall rates a broad variety ofTEs.
Other sets of regular expressions, for a totalof around 700 rules, are used in the normalizationphase, and are in charge of handling each specificTIMEX2 normalization attribute.
The results ob-tained by the Italian version of Chronos over theI-CAB test set are shown in Table 6.Prec Rec F F-Combtimex2 0.925 0.908 0.917 0.776 (-14%)anchor dir 0.733 0.636 0.681 0.521 (-16%)anchor val 0.495 0.462 0.478 0.465 (-1.3%)set 0.616 0.500 0.552 0.308 (-24%)text 0.859 0.843 0.851 0.276 (-57%)val 0.636 0.673 0.654 0.555 (-10%)Table 6: Evaluation of ITA-Chronos over the I-CAB test setAs expected, the distance between the resultsobtained by ITA-Chronos and the best Italian sys-tem automatically obtained from TERSEO (F-Comb) is considerable.
On average, in terms ofF-Measure, the scores obtained by ITA-TERSEOare 20% lower, ranging from -1.3% for the an-chor val attribute, to -57% for the text attribute.However, going beyond the raw numbers, a com-prehensive evaluation must also take into accountthe great difference, in terms of the required time,effort, and resources deployed in the developmentof the two systems.
While the implementation ofthe manual one took several months, the automaticporting procedure of TERSEO to Italian (in all thethree modalities described in this paper) is a veryfast process that can be accomplished in less thanan hour.
Considering the trade-off between per-formance and effort required for system?s devel-12For instance, the predicates ?Weekday-p?
and?Time Unit-p?
are respectively satisfied by strings suchas ?Monday?, ?Tuesday?, ..., ?Sunday?, and ?second?,?minute?, ?hour?, ?day?, ..., ?century?.
Of course, this alsoholds for the Italian equivalents of these expressionsopment, the proposed methodology represents aviable solution to attack the porting problem.6 ConclusionsIn this paper, the problem of automatically extend-ing to new languages a rule-based system for TErecognition and normalization has been addressed.Adopting an incremental approach, different port-ing strategies, for the creation of an Italian systemstarting from an already available Spanish system,have been evaluated and discussed.
Each exper-iment has been carried out considering the con-tribution of different knowledge sources for rulestranslation.
Firstly, the contribution given by theoutput of online translators has been evaluated,showing detection performances in line with a pre-viously developed English extension of the sys-tem, but a performance drop in terms of normal-ization performance.
Then, the contribution ofknowledge mined from an annotated corpus hasbeen considered.
Results show a performance in-crease in terms of detection and bracketing, buta less coherent behaviour in terms of normaliza-tion.
Finally, a combined approach has been ex-perimented, resulting in an overall performanceincrease.
System?s performance is still far fromthe results obtained by a state-of-the-art system forItalian but, considering the trade-off between per-formance and effort required for system?s devel-opment, results are encouraging.ReferencesL.
Ferro, L. Gerber, I. Mani, B. Sundheim, and G. Wil-son.
2005.
Tides.2005 standard for the annotationof temporal expressions.
Technical report, MITRE.K.
Hacioglu, Y. Chen, and B. Douglas.
2005.
TimeExpression Labeling for English and Chinese Text.In Proceedings of CICLing 2005, pages 548?559.B.
Magnini, E. Pianta, C. Girardi, M. Negri, L. Ro-mano, M. Speranza, and R. Sprugnoli.
2006.
I-CAB: the Italian Content Annotation Bank.
In Pro-ceedings of LREC 2006.
To appear.M.
Negri and L. Marseglia.
2004.
Recognition andnormalization of time expressions: Itc-irst at tern2004.
Technical report, ITC-irst, Trento.E.
Saquete, P. Martnez-Barco, and R. Muoz.
2004.Evaluation of the automatic multilinguality for timeexpression resolution.
In DEXA Workshops, pages25?30.
IEEE Computer Society.E.
Saquete, R. Muoz, and P. Martnez-Barco.
2005.Event ordering using TERSEO system.
Data and36Knowledge Engineering Journal, page (To be pub-lished).E.
Saquete, P. Martinez-Barco, R. Munoz R., M. Ne-gri, M. Speranza, and R. Sprugnoli R. 2006a.
Au-tomatic resolution rule assignment to multilingualtemporal expressions using annotated corpora.
InProceedings of the TIME 2006 International Sym-posium on Temporal Representation and Reasoning.To Appear.E.
Saquete, P. Martinez-Barco, R. Munoz R., M. Negri,M.
Speranza, and R. Sprugnoli R. 2006b.
Multilin-gual Extension of a Temporal Expression Normal-izer using Annotated Corpora.
In Proceedings of theEACL Workshop on Cross-Language Knowledge In-duction.E.
Saquete.
2005.
Temporal information Resolutionand its application to Temporal Question Answer-ing.
Phd, Departamento de Lenguages y SistemasInforma?ticos.
Universidad de Alicante, June.37
