Proceedings of the BioNLP Workshop on Linking Natural Language Processing and Biology at HLT-NAACL 06, pages 96?103,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemi-supervised anaphora resolution in biomedical textsCaroline GasperinComputer Laboratory,University of Cambridge,15 JJ Thomson Avenue,Cambridge CB3 0FD, UKcvg20@cl.cam.ac.ukAbstractResolving anaphora is an important stepin the identification of named entities suchas genes and proteins in biomedical sci-entific articles.
The goal of this workis to resolve associative and coreferentialanaphoric expressions making use of therich domain resources (such as databasesand ontologies) available for the biomed-ical area, instead of annotated trainingdata.
The results are comparable to ex-tant state-of-the-art supervised methods inthe same domain.
The system is integratedinto an interactive tool designed to assistFlyBase curators by aiding the identifica-tion of the salient entities in a given paperas a first step in the aggregation of infor-mation about them.1 IntroductionThe number of articles being published in biomedi-cal journals per year is increasing exponentially.
Forexample, Morgan et al (2003) report that more than8000 articles were published in 2000 just in relationto FlyBase1, a database of genomic research on thefruit fly Drosophila melanogaster.The growth in the literature makes it difficult forresearchers to keep track of information, even invery small subfields of biology.
Progress in thefield often relies on the work of professional cura-tors, typically postdoctoral-level scientists, who are1http://www.flybase.orgtrained to identify important information in a sci-entific article.
This is a very time-consuming taskwhich first requires identification of gene, allele andprotein names and their synonyms, as well as sev-eral interactions and relations between them.The in-formation extracted from each article is then used tofill in a template per gene or allele.To extract all information about a specificbiomedical entity in the text and be able to fill inthe corresponding template, a useful first step isthe identification of all textual mentions that are re-ferring to or are related with that entity.
Linkingall these mentions together corresponds to the taskknown as anaphora resolution in Natural LanguageProcessing.In this paper, we are interested in linking automat-ically all mentions that refer to a gene or are relatedto it (i.e.
its ?products?).
For example, in the follow-ing portion of text, we aim to link the highlightedmentions:??...
is composed of five proteins(1)encoded by the male-specific lethalgenes(2) ...
The MSL proteins(3)colocalize to hundreds of sites ... maleanimals die when they are mutant for anyone of the five msl genes(4).?
?In this work we use the output of a gene namerecogniser (Vlachos et al, 2006) and informationfrom the Sequence Ontology (Eilbeck and Lewis,2004) to identify the entities of interest and the ge-nomic relations among them.
We also use RASP(Briscoe and Carroll, 2002), a statistical parser, toidentify NPs (and their subconstituents) which maybe anaphorically linked.
Our system identifies coref-96erential relations between biomedical entities (suchas (1) and (3), and (2) and (4) above) as well as as-sociative links (relations between different entities,e.g.
the link between a gene and its protein as in (2)and (3) above).
A previous version of this systemwas presented in (Vlachos et al, 2006); here we im-prove its results due to refinements on some of thesteps previous to the resolution and to the anaphoraresolution process itself.The large majority of the entities in biomedi-cal texts are referred to using non-pronominal nounphrases, like proper nouns, acronyms or definite de-scriptions.
Hence, we focus on these NPs and donot resolve pronominal references (as pronouns rep-resent only about 3% of the noun phrases in our do-main).In the following section, we detail the differentcomponents of the anaphora resolution system.
Theresults are tested against hand-annotated papers, andan extensive evaluation is provided in Section 3,where the performance and errors are discussed.2 The anaphora resolution systemOur system for anaphora resolution makes use oflexical, syntactic, semantic and positional informa-tion to link anaphoric expressions.
The lexical infor-mation consists of the words themselves.
The syn-tactic information consists of noun phrase bound-aries and the distinction between head and pre-modifiers (extracted from RASP output).
The dis-tance (in words) between the anaphoric expressionand its possible antecedent is taken into account aspositional information.
The semantic informationcomes from the named entity recognition (NER)process and some extra tagging based on featuresfrom the Sequence Ontology.FlyBase is used as source of gene names, sym-bols and synonyms, giving rise to training data forthe gene name recognition system detailed in Sec-tion 2.1.
The output of this system is tagged namedentities that refer to the fruit fly genes.We then parse the text using RASP in order to ex-tract the noun phrases and their subparts (head andmodifiers).
Retagging gene names as proper namesbefore parsing improves the parser?s performance,but otherwise the parser is used unmodified.The Sequence Ontology (SO) can be used to iden-tify words and phrases related to a gene: its sub-types (e.g.
oncogene, transposable element), parts(e.g.
transcript, regulatory region) and products (e.g.polypeptide, protein).
Subsection 2.3 details the in-formation extracted from SO to type the non-genementions.2.1 Gene-name recognitionThe NER system we use (Vlachos et al, 2006) isa replication and extension of the system developedby Morgan et al (2004): a different training set andsoftware were used.
For training data we used atotal of 16609 abstracts, which were automaticallyannotated by a dictionary-based gene name tagger.The dictionary consists of lists of the gene names,symbols and synonyms extracted from FlyBase.
Thegene names and their synonyms that were recordedby the curators from the full paper were annotatedautomatically in each abstract, giving rise to a largebut noisy set of training data.
The recognizer usedis the open source toolkit LingPipe2, implementinga 1st-order HMM model using Witten-Bell smooth-ing.
A morphologically-based classifier was usedto deal with unknown gene names (that were notpresent in the training data).The performance of the trained recogniser on arevised version of the test data used in Morgan etal.
(86 abstracts annotated by a biologist curatorand a computational linguist) was 80.81% recall and84.93% precision.2.2 Parsing and NP extractionRASP is a pipelined parser which identifies sentenceboundaries, tokenises sentences, tags the tokenswith their part-of-speech (PoS) and finally parsesPoS tag sequences, statistically ranking the result-ing derivations.
We have made minor modificationsto RASP?s tokeniser to deal with some specific fea-tures of biomedical articles, and manually modifieda small number of entries in the PoS tagger lexicon,for example to allow the use of and as a proper name(referring to a fruit fly gene).
Otherwise, RASP usesa parse ranking module trained on a generic tree-bank and a grammar also developed from similar re-sources.The anaphora resolution system first tags genes2http://www.alias-i.com/lingpipe/97using the gene recogniser.
This means that identi-fied gene mentions can be retagged as proper namesbefore the RASP parser is applied to the resultingPoS sequences.
This improves parser performanceas the accuracy of PoS tagging decreases for un-known words, especially as the RASP tagger uses anunknown word handling module which relies heav-ily on the similarity between unknown words andextant entries in its lexicon.
This strategy works lesswell on gene names and other technical vocabularyfrom the biomedical domain, as almost no such ma-terial was included in the training data for the tag-ger.
We have not evaluated the precise improvementin performance as yet due to the lack of extant goldstandard parses for relevant text.RASP can output grammatical relations (GRs) foreach parsed sentence (Briscoe, 2006).
GRs are fac-tored into binary lexical relations between a headand a dependent of the form (GR-type headdependent).
We use the following GR-types toidentify the head-nouns of NPs (the examples ofGRs are based on the example of the first page un-less specified otherwise):?
ncsubj encodes binary relations betweennon-clausal subjects and their verbal heads; e.g.
(ncsubj colocalize proteins).?
dobj encodes a binary relation between ver-bal or prepositional head and the head of theNP to its immediate right; e.g.
(dobj ofsites).?
obj2 encodes a binary relation between ver-bal heads and the head of the second NP in adouble object construction; e.g.
for the sen-tence ?Xist RNA provides a mark for specifichistones?
we get (dobj provides mark)(obj2 provides histones).?
xcomp encodes a binary relation betweena head and an unsaturated VP complement;e.g.
for the phrase ?a class of regulators inDrosophila is the IAP family?
we get (xcompis family).?
ta encodes a binary relation between a headand the head of a text adjunct delimited bypunctuation (quotes, brackets, dashes, com-mas, etc.
); e.g.
for ?BIR-containing proteins(BIRPs)?
we get (ta proteins BIRPs).To extract the modifiers of the head nouns, wesearch the GRs typed ncmod which encode binaryrelations between non-clausal modifiers and theirheads; e.g (ncmod genes msl).When the head nouns take part in coordination, itis necessary to search the conj GRs which encoderelations between a coordinator and the head of aconjunct.
There will be as many such binary rela-tions as there are conjuncts of a specific coordinator;e.g.
for ?CED-9 and EGL-1 belong to a large fam-ily ...?
we get (ncsubj belong and) (conjand CED-9) (conj and EGL-1).Last but not least, to identify definite descrip-tions, we search the det GR for a definite speci-fier, e.g.
(det proteins The).
By using theGR representation of the parser output we were ableto improve the performance of the anaphora resolu-tion system by about 10% over an initial version de-scribed in (Vlachos et al, 2006) that used the RASPtree output instead of GRs.
GRs generalise moreeffectively across minor and irrelevant variations inderivations such as the X-bar level of attachment innominal coordinations.2.3 Semantic typing and selecting NPsTo identify the noun phrases that refer to the entitiesof interest, we classify the head noun as belongingto one of the five following classes: ?part-of-gene?,?subtype-of-gene?, ?supertype-of-gene?, ?product-of-gene?
or ?is-a-gene?.
These classes are referredto as biotypes.Figure 1: SO path from gene to protein.The biotypes reflect the way the SO relates en-tities to the concept of the gene using the follow-ing relations: derives from, member of, part of, andis a, among others.3 We extracted the unique path3We consider the member of relation to be the same as thepart of relation.98of concepts and relations which leads from a gene toa protein.
The result is shown in Figure 1.Besides the facts directly expressed in this path,we also assumed the following:41.
Whatever is-a transcript is also part-of a gene.2.
Whatever is part-of a transcript is also part-of agene.3.
An mRNA is part-of a gene.4.
Whatever is part-of an mRNA is also part-of agene.5.
CDS is part-of a gene.6.
A polypeptide is a product (derived-from) of agene.7.
Whatever is part-of a polypeptide is also aproduct of a gene.8.
A protein is a product of a gene.We then used these assumptions to add new deriv-able facts to our original path.
For example, an exonis a part of a transcript according to the SO, there-fore, by the 2nd assumption, we add the fact that anexon is a part of a gene.
We also extracted infor-mation about gene subtypes that is included in theontology as an entry called ?gene class?.
We con-sider NPs as supertypes of a gene when they refer tonucleotide sequences that are bigger than but includethe gene.5Finally, we tagged every NP whose head noun isone of the items extracted from the SO with its bio-type.
For instance, we would tag ?the third exon?with ?part-of-gene?.The NPs whose head noun is a gene name taggedin the NER phase also receive the ?is-a-gene?
bio-type.
Other NPs that still remain without biotypeinfo are tagged as ?other-bio?
if any modifier of thehead is a gene name.This typing process achieves 75% accuracy whenevaluated against the manually annotated corporadescribed in Section 3.
The majority of the errors4A curator from FlyBase was consulted to confirm the va-lidity of these assumptions.5In the SO a gene holds an is-a relation to ?sequence?
and?region?
entries.
(70%) are on typing NPs that contain just a propername, which can refer to a gene or to a protein.
Atthe moment, all of these cases are being typed as?is-a-gene?.The biotyped NPs are then selected and consid-ered for anaphora resolution.
NPs with the same bio-type can be coreferent, as well as NPs with is-a-geneand subtype-of-gene biotypes.
The anaphoric rela-tion between an is-a-gene NP and a part-of-gene orproduct-of-gene NP is associative rather than coref-erential.2.4 Resolving anaphora casesWe take all proper namer (PNs) and definite de-scriptions (DDs) among the filtered NPs as poten-tial anaphoric expressions (anaphors) to be resolved.As possible antecedents for an anaphor we take allbio-typed NPs that occur before it in the text.
Foreach anaphor we look for its antecedent (the closestprevious mention that is related to it).
For linkinganaphors to their antecedents we look at:?
headan: anaphor head noun?
heada: antecedent head noun?
modan: set of anaphor pre-modifiers?
moda: set of antecedent pre-modifiers?
biotypean: anaphor biotype?
biotypea: antecedent biotype?
d: distance in sentences from the anaphorThe pseudo-code to find the antecedent for theDDs and PNs is given below:?
Input: a set A with all the anaphoric expres-sions (DDs and PNs); a set C with all the possi-ble antecedents (all NPs with biotype informa-tion)?
For each anaphoric expression Ai:?
Let antecedent 1 be the closest precedingNP Cj such thathead(Cj)=head(Ai) andbiotype(Cj)=biotype(Ai)99?
Let antecedent 2 be the closest precedingNP Cj such thatbiotype(Cj)6= biotype(Ai), buthead(Cj)=head(Ai) orhead(Cj)=mod(Ai) ormod(Cj)=head(Ai) ormod(Cj)=mod(Ai)?
Take the closest candidate as antecedent,if 1 and/or 2 are found; if none is found,the DD/PN is treated as non-anaphoric?
Output: The resolved anaphoric expressions inA linked to their antecedents.As naming conventions usually recommend genenames to be lower-cased and protein names to beupper-cased, our matching among heads and modi-fiers is case-insensitive, allowing, for example, mslgene to be related to MSL protein due to theircommon modifiers.Antecedent 1, if found, is considered coreferentto Ai, and antecedent 2, associative.
For example, inthe passage:?
?Dosage compensation, which ensuresthat the expression of X-linked genes:Cjis equal in males and females ... thehypertranscription of the X-chromosomalgenes:Aj in males ...?
?the NP in bold font which is indexed as antecedentCj is taken to be coreferential to the anaphor indexedas Aj .
Additionally, in:??...
the role of the roX genes:Ckin this process ... which MSL proteinsinteract with the roX RNAs:Ak ...?
?Ck meets the conditions to form an associative linkto Ak.
The same is true in the following examplein which there is an associative relation between Cjand Aj :?
?The expression of reaper:Cj has beenshown to be regulated by distinct stimuli... it was shown to bind a specificregion of the reaper promoter:Aj ...?
?If we consider the example from the first page,mention (1) is returned by the system as the corefer-ent antecedent for (3), as they have the same biotypeand a common head noun.
In the same example, (2)is returned as a coreferent antecedent to (4), and (3)as an associative antecedent to (4).3 EvaluationWe evaluated our system against two hand-annotated full papers which have been curated inFlyBase and were taken from PubMed Central inXML format.
Together they contain 302 sentences,in which 97 DDs and 217 PNs related to biomedicalentities (out of 418 NPs in total) were found.For each NP, the following information was man-ually annotated:?
NP form: definite NP, proper name, or NP.?
biotype: gene, part-of-gene, subtype-of-gene,supertype-of-gene, product-of-gene, other-bio,or a non-bio noun.?
coreferent antecedent: a link to the closest pre-vious coreferent mention (if there is one).?
associative antecedent: a link to the closest pre-vious associative anaphoric mention (if there isone, and only if there is no closer coreferentmention).All coreferent mentions become linked togetheras a coreference chain, which allows us to check forprevious coreferent antecedents of a mention besidesthe closest one.Table 1 shows the distributions of the anaphoricexpressions according to the anaphoric relationsthey hold to their closest antecedent.coreferent associative no ant.
TotalDDs 34 51 12 97PNs 132 62 23 217Total 166 113 35 314Table 1: Anaphoric relation distributionDDs and PNs in associative relations account for27% of all NPs in the test data, which is almost dou-ble the number of bridging cases (associative pluscoreferent cases where head nouns are not the same)reported for newspaper texts in Vieira and Poesio(2000).Table 2 shows the distribution of the different bio-types present in the corpus.100gene part subtype supertype product67 62 1 7 244Table 2: Biotype distribution3.1 ResultsThe anaphora resolution system reaches 58.8% pre-cision and 57.3% recall when looking for the clos-est antecedent for DDs and PNs, after having beenprovided with hand-corrected input (that is, perfectgene name recognition, NP typing and selection).
Ifwe account separately for coreference and associa-tive relations, we get 59.47% precision and 81.3%recall for the coreferent cases, and 55.5% precisionand 22.1% recall for the associative ones.The performance of the system is improved if weconsider that it is able to find an antecedent otherthan the closest, which is still coreferential to theanaphor.
These are cases like the following:?
?five proteins encoded by themale-specific lethal genes ...
The MSLproteins ...?
?where the system returns ?five proteins?
as the coref-erent antecedent for ?the MSL proteins?, insteadof returning ?the male-specific lethal genes?
as theclosest (in this case, associative) antecedent.
Treat-ing these cases as positive examples we reach 77.5%precision and 75.6% recall6.
It conforms with thegoal of adding the anaphor to a coreferential chainrather than simply relating it to the closest an-tecedent.Table 3 reports the number of coreferent and as-sociative DDs and PNs that could be resolved.
Thenumbers on the left of the slash refer to relationswith the closest antecedent, and the numbers on theright refer to additional relations found when linkswith another antecedent are considered (all the newpositive cases on the right are coreferent, since ourevaluation data just contain associative links to theclosest antecedent).Most of the cases that could be resolved are coref-erent, and when the restriction to find the closestantecedent is relaxed, the system manages to re-solve 35 cases of DD coreference (64.7% recall).6We are able to compute these rates since our evaluation cor-pus includes also a coreferent antecedent for each case where anassociative antecedent was selected.coreferent associative no ant.DDs 20/+2 14/+13 7PNs 115/+9 11/+22 16Table 3: Resolved anaphoric relationsIt achieves very high recall (93.9%) on coreferen-tial PNs.
All the associative relations that are handannotated in our evaluation corpus are between ananaphor and its closest antecedent, so when the re-cency preference is relaxed, we get coreferent in-stead of associative antecedents: we got 35 corefer-ent antecedents for anaphors that had a closest asso-ciative antecedent that could not be recovered.
Thisconforms to the goal of having coreference chainsthat link all the mentions of a single entity.The system could resolve around 27% of the as-sociative cases of DDs, although fewer associativeantecedents could be recovered for PNs, mainly dueto the frequent absence of head-noun modifiers anddifferent forms for the same gene name (expandedvs.
abbreviated).Although associative anaphora is considered to beharder than coreference, we believe that certain re-finements of our resolution algorithm (such as nor-malizing gene names in order to take more advan-tage of the string matching among NP heads andmodifiers) could improve its performance on thesecases too.The anaphora resolution system is not able tofind the correct antecedent when there is no head ormodifier matching as in the anaphoric relation be-tween ??Dark/HAC-1/Dapaf-1??
and ?
?TheDrosophila homolog?
?.The performance rates drop when using the outputof the NER system (presented in Section 2.1), RASPparsing (Section 2.2) and SO-based NP typing (Sec-tion 2.3), resulting in 63% precision and 53.4% re-call.When the NER system fails to recognise a genename, it can decrease the parser performance (asit would have to deal with an unknown word) andinfluences the semantic tagging (the NP containingsuch a gene name won?t be selected as a possible an-tecedent or anaphor unless it contains another wordthat is part of SO).
When just the NER step is cor-rected by hand, the system reaches 71.8% precision101and 64.1% recall.4 Related workPrevious approaches to solve associative anaphorahave made use of knowledge resources likeWordNet(Poesio et al, 1997), the Internet (Bunescu, 2003)and a corpus (Poesio et al, 2002) to check if there isan associative link between the anaphor and a possi-ble antecedent.In the medical domain, Castan?o et al (2002)used UMLS (Unified Medical Language System)7as their knowledge source.
They treat coreferentialpronominal anaphora and anaphoric DDs and aimto improve the extraction of biomolecular relationsfrom MEDLINE abstracts.
The resolution processrelies on syntactic features, semantic informationfromUMLS, and the string itself.
They try to resolvejust the DDs that refer to relevant biotypes (corre-sponding to UMLS types) such as amino acids, pro-teins or cells.
For selecting the antecedents, they cal-culate salience values based on string similarity, per-son/number agreement, semantic type matching andother features.
They report precision of 74% and re-call of 75% on a very small test set.Yang et al (2004) test a supervised learning-basedapproach for anaphora resolution, evaluating it onMEDLINE abstracts from the GENIA corpus.
Theyfocus only on coreferent cases and do not attempt toresolve associative links.
18 features describe therelationship between an anaphoric expression andits possible antecedent - their source of semanticknowledge is the biotype information provided bythe NER component of GENIA.
They achieved re-call of 80.2% and precision of 77.4%.
They also ex-periment with exploring the relationships betweenNPs and coreferential clusters (i.e.
chains), select-ing an antecedent based not just on a single candi-date but also on the cluster that the candidate is partof.
For this they add 6 cluster-related features tothe machine-learning process, and reach 84.4% re-call and 78.2% precision.Our system makes use of extant biomedical re-sources focused on the relevant microdomain (fruitfly genomics), and attempts to tackle the harderproblem of associative anaphora, as this constitutesa significant proportion of cases and is relevant to7http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/the curation task.
Our performance rates are lowerthan the ones above, but did not rely on expensivetraining data.5 Concluding remarksOur system for anaphora resolution is semi-supervised and relies on rich domain resources: theFlyBase database for NER, and the Sequence On-tology for semantic tagging.
It does not need train-ing data, which is a considerable advantage, as anno-tating anaphora by hand is a complicated and time-demanding task, requiring very precise and detailedguidelines.The resulting links between the anaphoric entitiesare integrated into an interactive tool which aims tofacilitate the curation process by highlighting andconnecting related bio-entities: the curators are ableto navigate among different mentions of the sameentity and related ones in order to find easily the in-formation they need to curate.We are currently working on increasing our eval-uation corpus; we aim to make it available to theresearch community together with our annotationguidelines.We intend to enhance our system with additionalsyntactic features to deal with anaphoric relationsbetween textual entities that do not have any stringoverlap.
We also intend to add different weightsto the features.
The performance of the fully-automated version of the system can be improved ifwe manage to disambiguate between gene and pro-tein names and infer the correct biotype for them.The performance on associative cases could be im-proved by normalizing the gene names in order tofind more matches among heads and modifiers.AcknowledgementsThis work is part of the BBSRC-funded FlySlip8project.
Caroline Gasperin is funded by a CAPESaward from the Brazilian government.
Thanks toNikiforos Karamanis and Ted Briscoe for their com-ments and help with this manuscript.8http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/users/av308/Project Index/Project Index.html102ReferencesTed Briscoe and John Carroll.
2002.
Robust accuratestatistical annotation of general text.
In Proceedingsof LREC 2002, pages 1499?1504, Las Palmas de GranCanaria.Ted Briscoe.
2006.
Tag sequence grammars.
Technicalreport, Computer Laboratory, Cambridge University.Razvan Bunescu.
2003.
Associative anaphora resolu-tion: A web-based approach.
In Proceedings of EACL2003 - Workshop on The Computational Treatment ofAnaphora, Budapest.Jose?
Castan?o, Jason Zhang, and James Pustejovsky.2002.
Anaphora resolution in biomedical literature.
InProceedings of International Symposium on ReferenceResolution for NLP 2002, Alicante, Spain.Karen Eilbeck and Suzanna E. Lewis.
2004.
Sequenceontology annotation guide.
Comparative and Func-tional Genomics, 5:642?647.Alex Morgan, Lynette Hirschman, Alexander Yeh, andMarc Colosimo.
2003.
Gene name extraction usingFlyBase resources.
In Proceedings of ACL 2003 Work-shop on Natural Language Processing in Biomedicine,Sapporo, Japan.Alex Morgan, Lynette Hirschman, Mark Colosimo,Alexander Yeh, and Jeff Colombe.
2004.
Genename identification and normalization using a modelorganism database.
J. of Biomedical Informatics,37(6):396?410.Massimo Poesio, Renata Vieira, and Simone Teufel.1997.
Resolving bridging descriptions in unrestrictedtexts.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on OperationalFactors in the Practical, Robust, Anaphora Resolutionfor Unrestricted Texts, Madrid.Massimo Poesio, Tomonori Ishikawa, Sabine Schulteim Walde, and Renata Vieira.
2002.
Acquiring lexicalknowledge for anaphora resolution.
In Proceedings ofLREC 2002, Las Palmas De Gran Canaria.Renata Vieira and Massimo Poesio.
2000.
Anempirically-based system for processing definite de-scriptions.
Computational Linguistics, 26(4):525?579.Andreas Vlachos, Caroline Gasperin, Ian Lewin, and TedBriscoe.
2006.
Bootstrapping the recognition andanaphoric linking of named entities in Drosophila arti-cles.
In Proceedings of the PSB 2006, Hawaii.Xiaofeng Yang, Jian Su, Gouodong Zhou, and Chew LimTan.
2004.
An NP-cluster based approach to coref-erence resolution.
In Proceedings of COLING 2004,Geneva, Switzerland, August.103
