Proceedings of the 7th SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 54?59,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsResolution of Referents Groupings in Practical DialoguesAlexandre Denis,  Guillaume Pitel,  Matthieu QuignardLORIABP239 F-54206 Vandoeuvre-l?s-nancy, Francedenis@loria.fr,pitel@loria.fr,quignard@loria.frAbstractThis paper presents an extension to theReference Domain Theory (Salmon-Alt,2001) in order to solve plural references.While this theory doesn?t take pluralreference into account in its originalform, this paper shows how severalentities can be grouped together bybuilding a new domain and how they canbe accessed later on.
We introduce thenotion of super-domain, representing theaccess structure to all the plural referentsof a given type.1 IntroductionIn the course of a discourse or a dialogue,referents introduced separately could bereferenced with a single plural expression(pronoun, demonstratives, etc.).
The grouping ofthese referents may depend on many factors: itmay be explicit if they were syntacticallycoordinated or juxtaposed or implicit if they justshare common semantic features (Eschenbach etal., 1989).
Time is also an important factor whileit may be difficult to group old mentionedreferents with new ones.
Because of thismultiplicity of factors, choosing the rightdiscursive grouping for a referential pluralexpression is ambiguous, and this ambiguityneeds to be explicitly described.We present a model of grouping based onreference domains theory (Salmon-Alt, 2001)that considers that a reference operation consistsof extracting a referent in a domain.
However theoriginal theory barely takes into account pluralreference.
This paper shows how several entitiescan be grouped together by building a newdomain and how they can be accessed later on.
Itintroduces also the notion of super-domain D+that represents the access structure to all theplural referents of type D. This work is currentlybeing implemented and evaluated in the MEDIAproject of the EVALDA framework, a nationalfrench understanding evaluation campaign(Devillers, 2004).2 Groupings of ReferentsSeveral kinds of clues can specify that referentsshould be grouped together, or at least could begrouped together.
These clues may occur atseveral language levels, from the noun phraselevel to the rhetorical structure level.
We havenot explored in detail the different ways ofgroupings entities together in a discourse ordialogue.
What is described here are just some ofthe phenomenon we got confronted with whiledeveloping a reference resolution module for adialogue understanding system. Explicit Coordination - The most basicway to explicitly express the grouping of twoor more referents is using a connector such asand, or, as well as, etc.
?Good afternoon, I would like to book asingle room and a double room? Implicit Sentential Coordination - Animplicit coordination occurs when two ormore referents of the same kind are present inone sentence, without explicit connectorbetween them.
?Does the hotel de la garehave a restaurant, like the Holiday Inn?
? Implicit Discursive Coordination ?Such a coordination occurs when severalreference are evoked in separate sentences.The grouping must be done based onrhetorical structuring.
Here we consider shortpieces of dialogue, admitting only one levelof implicit discursive coordination.
?I wouldlike an hotel close to the sea...
I also need anhotel downtown... And the hotels have toaccept dogs.
?54 Repetitions/Specifications ?
In someparticular cases, groupings make explicit aprevious expression.
For instance ?Tworooms.
A single room, a double room?.3 Reference Domain TheoryWe are willing to try a pragmatic approach toreference resolution in practical multimodaldialogues (Gieselman, 2004).
For example weneed to process frequent phenomena likeordinals for choosing in a list (discursive, orvisual) or otherness when re-evoking oldreferents.
Hence keeping the track of the way thecontext is modified when introducing a referentor referring, is mandatory.
The ReferenceDomains Theory (Salmon-Alt, 2001) supposesthat every act of reference is related to a certaindomain of interpretation.
It endorses thecognitive grammar concept of domain, definedas a cognitive structure presupposed by thesemantics of the expression (Kumar et al, 2003).In other words, a referring expression has to beinterpreted in a given domain, highlighting andspecifying a particular referent in this domain.
Areference domain is composed of a group ofentities in the hearer?s memory which can bediscursive referents, visual objects, or concepts.It describes how each entity could be addressedthrough a referential expression.This theory views the referring process as adynamic extraction of a referent in a domaininstead of a binding between two entities(Salmon-Alt, 2000).
Hence doing a reference actconsists in isolating a particular entity from otherrejected candidates, amongst all the accessibleentities composing the domain (Olson, 1970).This dynamic discrimination relies on projectingan access structure focusing the referent in thedomain.
The domain then becomes salient forfurther interpretations.
The preferences forchoosing a suitable domain are inspired from theRelevance theory (Sperber & Wilson, 1986)taking into account such focalization andsalience.Landragin & Romary (2003) have also studiedthe usage of reference domains in order to modela visual scene.
The grouping factors for visualobjects are those given by the Gestalt theory,proximity, similarity, and good continuation.Each perceptual groups or groups designated bya gesture could be the base domain for anextraction.
Referential expressions work thesame way either the domains are discursive,perceptual or gestural, they extract and highlightreferents in these domains.
See (Landragin et al,2001) for a review of perceptual groupings.4 Basic TypeA referential domain is defined by:?
a set of entities accessible through thisdomain (ground of domain),?
a description subsuming the descriptionof all these entities (type of domain),?
a set of access structures to theseentities.For instance: ?the Ibis hotel (h1) and the hotelLafayette (h2)?
forms a referential domain,whose type would be Hotel, and whoseaccessible entities would be h1 and h2,themselves defined as domains of type Hotel.These two hotels could be accessed later on bytheir names.4.1 Access structuresWe suppose that the distinction between thereferents from the excluded alternatives requireshighlighting a discrimination criterion opposingthem.
This criterion behaves like a partition ofthe accessible entities, grouping them togetheraccording to their similarities and theirdifferences.
A partition may have one of its partsfocused.
There are, at least, three kinds ofdiscrimination criteria:?
discrimination on description.
Entitiescan be discriminated by their type, theirproperties, or by the relations they have withother entities.
For example the name of thehotels is a discrimination criterion in ?the Ibishotel and the hotel Lafayette?.?
discrimination on focus.
Entities canalso be discriminated by the focus they havewhen they are mentioned in the discourse ordesigned by a gesture.
For example, ?thisroom?
would select a focused referent in adomain, whereas ?the other room?
wouldselect a non-focused one.?
discrimination on time of occurrence.Entities can finally be discriminated by theiroccurrence in the discourse.
For example ?thesecond hotel?
would discriminate this hotelby its rank in the domain.4.2 Classical resolution algorithmEach activated domain belongs to list of domainsordered along their recentness (the referential55space).
The resolution algorithm consists of twophases:1.
Searching a suitable, preferred domain inthe referential space when interpreting areferring expression.
The suitability isdefined by the minimal conditions the domainhas to conform to in order to be the base of aninterpretation (particular description, orpresence of a particular access structure withfocus or not).
The main preference factor isthe minimization of the access cost(recentness or salience), however othercriteria like thematic structure could be takeninto account and will be future work.
Eachdomain is tested according to the constraintsgiven by the referential expression.
We allowseveral layers of constraints for each type ofexpression : if the stronger constraints are notmet, then weaker constraints are tried.2.
Extracting a referent and restructuring thereferential space, taking into account thisextraction.
It not only focuses the referent inits domain, but also moves the domain itselfto a more recent place.
When one referentacquires the focus, the alternative  membersof the same partition loose it.This generic scheme is instantiated for each typeof access modes (a modality plus an expression).For example a definite ?the N?
will search for adomain in which a particular entity of type ?N?can be discriminated, and the restructuringconsists in focalizing in this domain the referentfound.
See (Landragin & Romary, 2003) for adescription of the different access modes.The algorithm highlights the two types ofambiguities, domain or referent ambiguities,which occur when there is no preferenceavailable to make a choice between multiplesentities in the first or the second phase.
We guessthat natural ambiguities should eventually besolved through the dialogue between the agentsof the communication.5 Super-DomainsIn order to take groupings into account in theReference Domains Theory, we introduce twoconstructs in our formal toolbox.
Indeed, havingonly one kind of domain construct doesn?t allowfor a correct distinction between differentreferent statuses.First we distinguish plural and simple domains.The simple domains D serve as bases forprofiling, or highlighting, a subpart, or relatedpart of a simple referent.
For instance, if D =Room, then one can profile a Price from D. Theplural domains D* serve as either as a genericbase or as a plural representative for profilinga simple domain D. A generic base is mandatoryin our model to support the insertion of newextra-linguistic referents evoked with anindefinite construct (for instance ?I saw a blackbird on the roof?
), while plural representativesare used for explicit groupings.
A domain D*1can also be profiled from a D*0, provided D*1profiles a subset of the elements of D*0.Second, we introduce the notion of super-domain D+, from which a D* can be profiled.The relations allowed between domains arerepresented on figure 1.
A super-domain D+ isthe domain of all groupings D*, including aspecial D*all grouping which is the representativeof all evoked instances of a given category.
Thisconfiguration is not intended to deal with longdialogues where several, trans-sententialgroupings occur, and where older groupings maybecome out of access.
Doing this would requirea rhetorically driven structuring of the D*all.Figure 1: Access structure of ReferenceDomainsAs Reference Domain Theory is primarilytargeted toward extra-linguistic referentsoccurring in practical dialogue, the constructionof the domain trees, representing the supposedstructuring of referents accessibility, is based onontology.
As a consequence, for each ?natural?type and each subtype (for instanceRoom?Single), a domain tree is potentiallycreated (actually, one can easily imagine howthis creation may be driven ?on-demand?
).Another evolution from the initial ReferenceDomain Theory is the possibility to focalizeseveral items of a partition.
Indeed, since theresolution algorithm can focalize a whole pluraldomain, all elements of this domain must befocalized in all the plural domains they occur in.In order to refer to plural entities the idea is tobuild plural domains dynamically : when somesentence-level grouping, either implicit orexplicit occurs or when a plural extra-linguisticreferent is evoked, a D* is created and focussedD+D* D D*D+ : super-domainD* : plural domainD  : simple domain: gives access to56in D+, with each of its components as children,when possible (that is, when each component isdescribed).
When new extra-linguistic referents(singular or plural) are evoked, they areindividually profiled under the D*allcorresponding to their types (that is, their?natural?
type, and all the subtypes they areeligible to).In short, for all referents of type D:?
they become subdomains of D*all?
if they are plural referents, they also buildup a focalized subdomain of D+?all the referents of a given type are thengrouped together under a new focalizedsubdomain of D+.Figure 2 illustrates the state of the Hotel+domain tree after a scenario with three dialogueacts, the first one introducing Hotel1, the secondone inserting a grouping of Hotel2 and Hotel3.and the third one referring to it.Figure 2: A domain tree built from a scenarioabove (focus in bold)The operations are the following :U1 : Hotel1 becomes a subdomain of Hotel*allwhich gains focus in Hotel+.S1 : Hotel2 and Hotel3 become subdomains ofHotel*all.
In addition Hotel2 and Hotel3 aregrouped in Hotel*1 which gains the focus inHotel+ while Hotel*all loses it.U2 : The pronoun is solved in Hotel+, and Hotel*1is retrieved.One can see that Hotel*all is inaccessible by ageneric expression like a demonstrative withoutmodifiers but only by a special expression like"all the hotels".
In our point of view, the reasonis that the grouping Hotel*1 lowers the salienceof Hotel*all.6 ImplementationWe used description logics for modellingdomains and domain-reasoning.
One has to dealwith plural entities and can follow (Franconi, 93)by using collection theory, representingcollections as individuals and membership by arole (plus plural quantifiers).
But we should useanother way considering that the inferenceengine we use, Racer (Haarslev and M?ller, 03),does not take into account ALCS.
Hence wetried representing the domains by concepts,given their semantic are set of individuals.
Thedomain D+ corresponds to the concept D, andthe domain-subdomain relation is asubsumption.
All basic manipulation withdomains could be done using Tbox assertions.Additionnally, a partition structure is simply asequence of subdomains which are differentfrom each other (disjoint concepts) and whoseelements could be focussed.
The algorithm goesthrough the referential space and tests eachdomain in the recency order against theconstraints given by the referential expression.Conceptual tests on the description andpartitional tests on the focus or possiblediscriminations are made to retrieve the domainand the referent.
If none are found, they may becreated by accomodation.
Groupings are createdonly for explicit coordinations, implicitsentential coordinations (two referents could begrouped if they have the same basic type) andsome kind of specifications.Domains and groupings creation entails thecreation of new concepts in the Tbox.
Eachconcept insertion requires a costlyreclassification, therefore we preferred anapproximation considering only that newgroupings assert primitive concepts.
Otherdomains are concept terms i.e.
descriptionswhich do not have to be asserted in the Tboxautomatically.Implicit discursive groupings are notimplemented considering the need of a rhetoricalstructure  (like in SDRT, Asher 93) or a mentalspace model.
The following example shows theneeds :U1 : I would like an hotel (h1)S1 : I propose you the hotel Ibis (h2) andthe Lafayette hotel (h3).Hotel h1 could very hardly be grouped with h2and h3, even by ?all these hotels?
(or maybe by athird speaker).
We guess among other factorsthat they belong to different levels ofinterpretation, h1 in the domain of the desires ofHotel+Hotel*all Hotel*1Hotel1 Hotel2 Hotel3U1: The Ibis Hotel (Hotel1) is too expensiveS1: Maybe the Hotel Lafayette (Hotel2) orthe Hotel de la cloche (Hotel3)U2: Those hotels are too far from the airport.57the user, and the others in the domain of existinghotels.
The link between the two domains ispossible if one knows that S1 is an answer of toU's request.
Such discrimination criterion andhigh level domains are not yet implemented.Instead we concentrated on extra-linguisticreferents which are assumed to be interpreted inthe real/system world (like hotels, rooms).
Weare currently testing the approach to see if itcould be extended to any type of entitiesprovided accurate discrimination criteria (likethe predication).7 ExampleA sample dialogue (table 1) is analyzed throughthe preceding algorithm.
This example showshow the referents introduced in an explicitcoordination could be referenced as a whole ?thetwo hotels?, or extracted discriminately by anordinal ?the second one?
or by an othernessexpression ?the other one?.
All the subdomainsof H+ (i.e.
the plural domains of hotels) areindicated after each interpretation using asimplified notation.
Only the ordered list ofaccessible entities and their focalization (bold)are noted for each subdomain.
For instanceH*all= (h1, h2, h3) means that the domain H*all isfocalized in H+, and that h3 is focalized in H*all.Table 1: Example of dialogue (focus in bold)In order to interpret U1, U2 or U3 one needs torely on the previous structuring of H+.
In U1, thepreviously focalized domain H*1 is preferred tobe the base for interpreting ?the second one?because of the order discrimination.
This leadsto extracting h1 hence focalizing it in H*1 butalso in H*0 and in H*all.
In U2, H*1 cannot be thebase for interpreting ?the third one?
because noentity could be discriminate this way.
Thereforethe only suitable domain is H*all.
It is alsoimpossible to interpret U3 : ?the other one?
inH*1 because of the lack of a focus discriminationbetween h1 and h2.It is however possible to choose H*all for thedomain of interpretation: the excluded referentsh1 and h2 are unfocused while h3 gains focus.8 Evaluation in progressThis work is currently being evaluated in theMEDIA/EVALDA framework, a nationalunderstanding evaluation campaign.
(Devillers etal., 04).
It aims to evaluate the semantic andreferential abilities of systems with variousapproaches of natural language processing.
Theresults of each system are compared to manuallyannotated utterances transcribed from a Wozcorpus in a hotel reservation task.
For thereferential facet, referential expressions(excluding indefinites, and proper names) areannotated by a semantic description of theirreferents.Our system which relies on a symbolic approachusing deep parsing and description logics forsemantic currently scores 64% (f-measure) foridentifying and describing accurately thereferents.
We guess that such evaluation will bean occasion for us to test different hypothesis onreference resolution using domains (for exempledifferent criteria for grouping).
However we donot have yet more precise results on plurals andordinals specifically.9 ConclusionThe extension we made to the ReferenceDomains Theory is still limited because itconsiders only extra-linguistic referents, i.e.those also having an existence outside discourse.In addition the trans-sentential groupings are notfully studied yet.
We guess that such groupingsshould need a rhetorical description of thediscourse or dialogue.
In spite of its limits, theextension can render dynamic effects allowingordinals and otherness in plural contexts.
AnDialogue H+U: Is there a bathroom atthe Ibis hotel (h1) and thehotel Lafayette (h2)?H*0 = (h1, h2)H*all = (h1, h2)S: No they don't havebathroomsH*0 = (h1, h2)H*all = (h1, h2)S: But I propose you theCampanile hotel (h3)H*0 = (h1, h2)H*all = (h1, h2, h3)U: Hmm no, how muchwere the two hotels?H*0 = (h1, h2)H*all = (h1, h2, h3)S: The hotel Lafayette is100 euros, the Ibis hotel is75 eurosH*1 = (h2, h1)H*0 = (h1, h2)H*all = (h1, h2, h3)U1: Ok, I take the secondoneH*1 = (h2, h1)H*0 = (h1, h2)H*all = (h1, h2, h3)U2: Ok, I take the thirdoneU3 : and the other one ?H*1 = (h2, h1)H*0 = (h1, h2)H*all = (h1, h2, h3)58implementation in description logics is  currentlybeing evaluated in the MEDIA/EVALDAframework.ReferencesNicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Objectsin English: A Philosophical Semantics for NaturalLanguage Metaphysics.
In Studies in Linguisticsand Philosophy, Kluwer, Dordrecht.Laurence Devillers, H?l?ne Maynard, St?phanieRosset, Patrice Paroubek, Kevin McTait, DjamelMostefa, Khalid Choukri, Caroline Bousquet,Laurent Charnay, Nadine Vigouroux, Fr?d?ricB?chet, Laurent Romary, Jean-Yves Antoine,Jeanne Villaneau, Myriam Vergnes, and J?r?meGoulian.
2004.
The French MEDIA/EVALDAProject : the Evaluation of the UnderstandingCapability of Spoken Language Dialog System.
InProceedings of LREC 2004, Lisbon, Portugal.Carola Eschenbach, Christopher Habel, MichaelHerweg, Klaus Rehk?mper.
1989.
Remarks onplural anaphora.
In Proc.
Fourth Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics.Enrico Franconi.
1993.
A treatment of plurals andplural quantifications based on a theory ofcollections.
Minds and Machines (3)4:453-474,Kluwer Academic Publishers, November 1993Petra Gieselmann: 2004.
Reference ResolutionMechanisms in Dialogue Management.
In:Proceedings of the Eighth Workshop on theSemantics and Pragmatics of Dialogue(CATALOG), Barcelona, 2004.Volker Haarslev, and Ralf M?ller.
2003.
Racer: ACore Inference Engine for the Semantic Web.
InProceedings of the 2nd International Workshop onEvaluation of Ontology-based Tools (EON2003),located at the 2nd International Semantic WebConference ISWC 2003, Sanibel Island, Florida,USA, October 20, 2003, pp.
27-36.Ashwani Kumar, Susanne Salmon-Alt, and LaurentRomary.
2003.
Reference resolution as afacilitating process towards robust multimodaldialogue management: A cognitive grammarapproach.
In International Symposium onReference Resolution and Its Application toQuestion Answering and Summarization.Fr?d?ric Landragin, and Laurent Romary.
2003.Referring to Objects Through Sub-Contexts inMultimodal Human-Computer Interaction.
In Proc.Seventh Workshop on the Semantics andPragmatics of Dialogue (DiaBruck'03),Saarbr?cken, Germany, 2003, pp.
67-74.Fr?d?ric Landragin, Nadia Bellalem and LaurentRomary.
2001.
Visual Salience and PerceptualGrouping in Multimodal Interactivity.
In: FirstInternational Workshop on InformationPresentation and Natural Multimodal Dialogue,Verona, Italy, 2001David R. Olson.
1970.
Language and Thought:Aspects of a Cognitive Theory of Semantics.Psychological Review, 77/4, 257-273.Susanne Salmon-alt.
2000.
Interpreting referringexpressions by restructuring context.
Proc.
ESSLLI2000, Student Session, Birmingham, UK, August2000.Susanne Salmon-Alt.
2001.
Reference Resolutionwithin the Framework of Cognitive Grammar.Proc.
International Colloquium on CognitiveScience, San Sebastian, SpainDan Sperber and Deirdre Wilson.
1986.
Relevance,Communication and Cognition.
Basil Blackwell,Oxford.59
