Proceedings of the Workshop on Annotating and Reasoning about Time and Events, pages 46?53,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsMarking Time in Developmental Biology: Annotating DevelopmentalEvents and their Links with Molecular EventsGail SinclairSchool of InformaticsUniversity of EdinburghEdinburgh EH8 9LWc.g.sinclair@ed.ac.ukBonnie WebberSchool of InformaticsUniversity of EdinburghEdinburgh EH8 9LWbonnie@inf.ed.ac.ukDuncan DavidsonMRC Human Genetics UnitWestern General HospitalEdinburgh EH4 2XUDuncan.Davidson@hgu.mrc.ac.ukAbstractCurrent research in developmental biologyaims to link developmental genetic path-ways with the processes going on at cel-lular and tissue level.
Normal processeswill only take place under specific sequen-tial conditions at the level of the pathways.Disrupting or altering pathways may meandisrupted or altered development.This paper is part of a larger work explor-ing methods of detecting and extracting in-formation on developmental events fromfree text and on their relations in space andtime.1 IntroductionMost relation extraction work to date on biomedi-cal articles has focused on genetic and protein in-teractions, e.g.
the extraction of the fact that ex-pression of Gene A has an effect on the expressionof Gene B.
However where genetic interactions aretissue- or stage-specific, the conditions that governthe types of interactions often depend on where inthe body the interaction is happening (space) andat what stage of life/development (time).For genetic pathways involved in development,it is critical to link what is happening at the molec-ular level to changes in the developing tissues,usually described in terms of processes such astubulogenesis and epithelialization (both involvedin the development of the kidney) and where theyare happening.The processes themselves are usually linkedto stages rather than precise time points andspans like ?6.15pm EST?, ?March 3?, ?last year?.Within the developmental mouse community,there are at least two different ways of specifyingthe developmental stage of an embryo - Theilerstages (TS), and days post coitum/embryonicday (d.p.c./E).
However, these cannot be simplymapped to one another as can days, weeks andyears.
Embryonic days are real time stages in-dependent of the state of the embryo and datedfrom an assumption about when (approximately)the relevant coitus must have taken place, whileTheiler stages are relative stages dependent on theprocesses an embryo is undergoing.Developmental stages can be also be referred toimplicitly, by the state of the embryo or the pro-cesses currently taking place within it.
This is be-cause during development, tissues form, change,merge or even disappear.
So if the embryo is un-dergoing tubulogenesis, one can assume that itsdevelopmental stage is (loosely) somewhere be-tween TS20 and birth.
If the text refers to inducedmesenchyme during a description of tubulogene-sis, one can assume that this change in the mes-enchyme is the (normal) consequence of the Wolf-fian duct invading the metanephric mesenchyme.The invasion is known to occur around 10.5 d.p.cso the induced mesenchyme must come into exis-tence soon after this time.Temporal links between developmental eventsmay be indicated explicitly (e.g.
first, a tubule de-velops into a comma-shaped body, which then de-velops into an S-shaped body), but they are morelikely to be indicated implicitly by their order-ing in the text and by associative (or ?bridging?
)anaphora where the anaphor refers to the result ofa previously mentioned process, e.g.
the inductionof metanephric mesenchyme as one event, and asubsequent mention of induced mesenchyme (an?associative?
or ?bridging?
reference) within an-other event, suggesting the former event occurredbefore the latter.46Figure 1: Partial genetic pathway for early kid-ney morphogenesis.
The arrows show directed in-teractions between genes that are required for thespecified processes.
E.g Pax2 interacts with (acti-vates) Six2 which, together with Sall1 and Wt1,is required for differentiation of the mesenchy-mal cells in the metanephric mesenchyme.
Imagetaken from (Ribes et al, 2003).This work on linking molecular and develop-mental events mentioned in text on developmentis also meant to deal with the problem that noone article ever fully describes a topic.
The par-tial genetic interaction network in Figure 1 hasbeen built from several different studies and notdetermined from just a single experiment.
Sonot only does the information within one articleneed to be mined for useful information - the in-formation across articles needs to be associatedwith each other with respect to temporal, spatialand experimental grounding.
Eccles et al (2002)states that Pax2 is required for differentiation ofmesenchymal cells during kidney morphogenesis,while Sajithlal et al (2005) states that Eya1 is re-quired.
However these two results by themselvesdo not help us determine whether these require-ments are independent of one another or whetherthey are required at different stages or in differentparts of metanephric mesenchyme or whether thetwo genes interact.
The conditions involved in theexperiments, most importantly the temporal con-ditions, can help to link the two events.This work aims to develop methods for extract-ing information from text that will ground ge-netic pathways (molecular events) with regard totissue location, developmental process and stageof embryonic development - that is, their spatio-temporal context.
The task at hand is to recognisehow biologists write about developmental eventsand then adapt existing or formulate new natu-ral language processing techniques to extract theseevents and temporally relate them to each other.The resultant information can then be used bothfor database curation purposes and for visualisa-tion, i.e.
to enrich pathway diagrams such as Fig-ure 1, with information such as when and wherethe interactions take place, what type of inter-actions are involved (physical, activation, inhibi-tion), the origin of this information and other as-sociated information.2 Notions of TimeAs previously mentioned, there are different waysof calibrating for developmental stages, and theycannot simply be mapped to one another.
The twomost common stage notations for mouse develop-ment are Theiler stages, TS, and Embryonic days,E (equivalent to days post coitum, d.p.c.).
The lat-ter are self explanatory in that they denote the 24hour day and can be considered real-time staging.47The convention was originally that E11 would rep-resent the 24 hour period of the 11th day.
It is,however, now common to find E11.5 representingthe same time period, but this is merely a changein convention due to standard practices of experi-mentation.A Theiler stage on the other hand representsa non-fixed relative time period defined by theprogress of development rather than directly interms of the passage of time.
Theiler Stages(Theiler, 1989) divide mouse development into 26prenatal and 2 postnatal stages.
In general, Theilerused external features that can be directly assessedby visual inspection of the live embryo as devel-opmental landmarks to define stages.
The Edin-burgh Mouse Atlas Project (EMAP)1 uses Theilerstages to organise anatomical terms in their MouseAtlas Nomenclature (MAN).
EMAP gives a briefdescription of each Theiler stage with TS25 as anexample as follows:Skin wrinkledThe skin has thickened and formed wrinkles andthe subcutaneous veins are less visible.
The fin-gers and toes have become parallel and the um-bilical hernia has disappeared.
The eyelids havefused.
Whiskers are just visible.Absent: ear extending over auditory meatus, longwhiskers.An embryo is in TS25 at approximately 17 d.p.c.As can be seen in Figure 2, an embryo at E11could be considered in Theiler stage 17, 18 or 19,i.e.
Theiler stages can overlap one another withrespect to Embryonic day.
Indeed, here, TS17 canfully encompass TS18 in the dpc timeline.The development of internal structures is ap-proximately correlated with external develop-ments, so except for fine temporal differences,the Theiler stages can be assumed to apply to thewhole embryo.
Theiler stages provide only grosstemporal resolution of developmental events, andthe development of internal structures often takeplace within the boundaries of one of these stagesor overlapping stage boundaries.
Thus, internaldevelopmental processes can also have their ownfiner relative timeline or staging.There is no ontology or reference book thatcomprehensively specifies this finer staging andthe knowledge of the biologist as the reader of ar-1Edinburgh Mouse Atlas Project -http://genex.hgu.mrc.ac.uk/Figure 2: Graphic of kidney morphogenesis an-notated with the two standard staging notationsfor mouse development.
At E10.5 the Wolffianduct invades the metanephric mesenchyme form-ing the ureteric bud around E11.
The bud thenbranches around E11.5 and continues to do so un-til birth, forming the ultimate functional units ofthe kidney - the nephrons.
TS = Theiler Stage, E= Embryonic day/dpc.
This image is adapted fromhttp://www.sciencemuseum.org.uk/ticles is relied upon.
This work will contribute tomaking this deeper staging criteria explicit.3 Annotation3.1 Event ClassificationAs a first step, a Gold Standard corpus of 988 sen-tences was developed with each sentence beingclassified as containing the description of a devel-opmental and/or molecular event or not.
385 sen-tences were classified as positive, with 603 neg-ative.
Named entities within all these sentenceswere also annotated.
Among these element typeswere stage, process and tissue.
A Naive Bayesautomatic classifier for sentence classification wasdeveloped using this Gold Standard resulting ina balanced F-score of 72.3% for event classifica-tion.
(A manual rule-based approach resulted inan F-score of 86.6%, but this has yet to be fullyinvestigated for automation.
Guessing positive forall sentences would give a balanced F-score of58.4%)3.2 Event SpecificationsTwo event types are of interest in this work -molecular and tissue events.
The former involvethe action (and possible effect) of molecules dur-48ing development and the latter involves the devel-opment of the tissues themselves.
A description ofan event can be expected to contain the followingelements:  molecular or tissue event type (e.g.
expres-sion, inhibition)  stage or temporal expression (e.g.
after X,subsequent to X, E11)  at least one of?
molecule name, anatomical term, bio-logical process termThe informational elements included within anevent description can then be used to relate eventsto each other.
Specifically, processes involveknown tissues and are known to happen duringcertain stages, just as the relative order of pro-cesses, tissue formations and stages are known.While an initial specification of an event maybe associated with a single sentence, clause orphrase, not all the elements of relevance to thiswork may be specified there.
In particular, an in-formational element of the event may be explic-itly and fully stated in this initial event specifica-tion, or it may be underspecified or it may be miss-ing.
For those that are underspecified or missing,background knowledge about other elements andevents may need to be taken into consideration inorder for them to be fully resolved (see Section4.2).The following is a straightforward examplewhere the given sentence specifies all the main el-ements required for a molecular event.1.
At E11, the integrin ?8 subunit was expressedthroughout the mesenchyme of the nephro-genic cord.  Molecular Event : expression  molecule name: integrin ?8  anatomical term: mesenchyme of thenephrogenic cord  stage: E11Example 2 shows that a single sentence mayspecify more than one event.2.
Prior to formation of the ureteric bud,no ?8 expression was evident within themesenchyme that separates the urogenitalridge from the metanephric mesenchyme andwithin the metanephric mesenchyme itself.  EVENT-0?
Tissue Event : formation of anatom-ical term?
anatomical term: ureteric bud?
stage/temporal expression = missing  EVENT-1?
Molecular Event: absence of expres-sion?
molecule name: ?8?
anatomical term: mesenchyme thatseparates the urogenital ridge fromthe metanephric mesenchyme?
temporal expression:Prior toEVENT-0  EVENT-2?
Molecular Event: absence of expres-sion?
molecule name: ?8?
anatomical term: metanephric mes-enchyme?
temporal expression: Prior toEVENT-0EVENT-0 is not the focus of this sentence, butrather a reference event.
Its attributes need to berecorded so that the stage of the other events canbe determined.TimeML (Pustejovsky et al, 2004) is a spec-ification language designed for the annotationof temporal and event information.
AlthoughTimeML is not currently being used as a methodof representation for this work, Example 1 abovecould be represented as follows: SIGNAL sid=?s1?
type=?temporal?
At /SIGNAL  TIMEX tid=?t1?
type=?STAGE?value=?E11?
E11 /TIMEX the integrin ?8 EVENT eid=?e1?
class=?molecular?
was expressed /EVENT throughout the mesenchyme of the SIGNAL sid=?s2?
type=?tissue?
nephrogenic cord /SIGNAL nephrogenic cord can be considered a signal oftype ?tissue?
as it does not exist throughout the49whole of development and so can indicate or ruleout time periods for this event description.3.3 Event Time-StampingThe relative timing of any biological processesmentioned in the event descriptions first needs tobe determined before we can work out when theactual events described are taking place.Schilder and Habel (2001) looked beyond thecore temporal expressions and into prepositionalphrases that contained temporal relations, i.e.
be-fore, during, etc and introduced the notion of nounphrases as event-denoting expressions.
An eventthat is described as occurring ?after the election?does not have an explicit time-stamp attached to it,but the knowledge about the timing of the electionmentioned gives the reader a notion of when in ab-solute time the event occurred.
This is similar toExample 2 above where Event-0 is the referenceevent, thus biological processes can be consideredevent-denoting expressions.While Schilder and Habel rely on prepositionalphrases to designate their event-denoting nounphrases, for this work propositional phrases arenot necessarily required.
The mention of a nounphrase by itelf may be enough.
In developmen-tal biology, tissues may only be extant for a lim-ited period before they form into some other tissueand these can also be used as event-denoting ex-pressions - for example, comma-shaped bodies arestructures within the developing kidney that areonly in existence for a relatively short time period -before the existence of the S-shaped bodies and af-ter epithelialization.
Therefore the mention of tis-sues as well as processes can help to pinpoint thetiming of the event being described.
While theymay not ultimately bring us to the exact stage theevent is occurring in, it can at least rule out somespans of time.
We discuss this further in Section4.2.In order for events to be linked to one another,it is necessary to uniquely index each event and itselements.
Mapping across indices will be utilisedso that known relationships between elements canbe represented.
For example, E10 comes beforeE12, tubulogenesis occurs during kidney morpho-genesis, and the proximal tubule is part of thenephron.Of the elements types listed in Section 3.2, onlythe molecule element cannot be used to resolvedevelopmental stage while tissue, process, stageand, of course, temporal expression can.
Other el-ements are also of interest to the biologist and inte-gral to development and molecular function, how-ever they are not of use in the grounding of eventsin time.4 Initial InvestigationsThis section demonstrates that one must look be-yond the sentence in order to resolve the temporalaspects of events.4.1 Evidence for Developmental StageEvidence sufficient to resolve developmental stagecan come from many places.
314 positive sen-tences from the Gold Standard corpus and theircontext were examined, and the evidence requiredto resolve developmental stage for each of theevents mentioned there was determined as shownin Table 1.As can be seen from the table, only 48 out ofthe 314 event sentences (i.e.
15%) have the de-velopmental stage in which the event is occurringexplicitly stated in the given sentence, (e.g.
Ex-ample 1 in Section 3).
So other means need to beexplored in order to ground events with respect todevelopmental stage.
An event sentence may be acontinuation of a topic, and so the specific devel-opmental stage involved may well be stated in theimmediately surrounding or related text.Information in the immediately surroundingtext (rows labelled Following Sentence, PreviousSentence and Current Paragraph) resolves the de-velopmental stage of the event in 64 cases (i.e.21%).
This most commonly occurs by looking forthe immediately previously mentioned stage, andin one case the next encountered stage.Event sentences also often refer to figures, andso the stage being described in the caption (i.e.legend) of the referenced figure will often be thesame as the one relevant to the sentence.
(This wastrue of all sentences looked at that referenced a fig-ure.)
Figures, however, are generally only found inthe Results sections and so this type of evidence isnot often going to be of use for sentences found inother sections of an article.Similarly, events can be described within thefigure legends themselves.
The concise and simpleway in which legends are generally written meanthat the explicit stage is commonly referred to, andso stage can be resolved using this referenced in-formation(43 out of 47 cases, i.e.
91%).50Source of Evidence Abstract Introduction Results Discussion Methods TotalsTime Irrelevant 7 12 22 23 1 65Prior Knowledge 17 33 31 45 0 126Following Sentence 0 0 1 0 0 1Previous Sentence 0 0 7 0 0 7Current Paragraph 0 0 18 1 0 19Reference to Figure 0 0 38 0 0 38Within Fig Legend 0 0 43 0 0 43(time not resolved) 0 3 1 0 0 4Explicitly Stated 0 1 41 5 1 48(not relevant) 0 0 1 0 0 1Totals 24 49 165 74 2 314Table 1: Location and type of evidence sufficient to resolve developmental stage in sentences.
TimeIrrelevant indicates that the event being described is not time critical, i.e.
event is a constant over devel-opmental timeline, or end result.
Prior knowledge means temporal information other than that found inthe current paragraph but associated with current event such as tissue and process is required for temporalresolution.
This may be found in the current article or from previously curated information (assumingaccurate terminology mapping.)
Text from outside the current paragraph cannot be relied upon to be rel-evant to the current sentence without additional information.
time not resolved means the stage could notbe pinpointed using the figure legend.
not relevant indicates that although an explicit stage was referredto within the sentence, this was not relevant to the event being described, e.g.
event and stage in differentclauses of the sentence.Table 2 shows a similar table to Table 1, butdeals only with those sentences found within fig-ure legends.
It shows where within the figure leg-end the required evidence for developmental stagecan be found.
As can be seen, in 80% of thesecases the relevant developmental stage can be as-certained directly from the legend.
It should benoted that figure legends in biological articles tendto be much lengthier than those from NLP articles.In 21% of the event sentences, a specific devel-opmental stage is not relevant to the fact being de-scribed (first row of Table 1), e.g.
the kidneys ofthe double mutants were located more caudal andmedial than normal.
This sentence is describingan end result, i.e.
an affected or normal kidneyat birth (although this could, of course, be con-sidered a developmental stage.)
Alternatively, thetime-irrelevant event being described could be anon-event, e.g.
the fact that a gene is never ex-pressed in a particular tissue.
Similarly, this couldbe considered as the developmental stage rangefrom conception to birth.The significantly small proportion of event sen-tences located in Abstracts (24 of 314 total eventsentences, less than 8%) demonstrates the need touse full text.
Even where an event is describedwithin an Abstract, it is rarely accompanied byassociated processes or tissues specific enough tosuggest the stage of development never mind anexplicit timestamp, as it is, by necessity, only gen-erally describing the whole article.
The majorityof BioNLP work is being done with the use of Ab-stracts only.
This is because of their relative easeof access compared with full text, but methods de-veloped using Abstracts only will not necessarilybe as effective when applied to full text.As can be seen, the majority of temporally-underspecified event sentences are situated in theResults section of the articles.
Indeed, this isthe section where most event sentences are to befound.
This work is initially focussing on eventdescriptions found in Results sections of articles asthese will focus on the work done by the authorsand their findings and will not generally includemodality in the event descriptions as Introductionand Discussion sections might.
As shown above,the Methods section rarely contains event descrip-tions and when they do they are usually about whatthe experiment aims to show and so this should berepeated in the Results section.4.2 Prior KnowledgeAs mentioned earlier, if none of the above sourcesreveal the relevant stage of an event, then other el-ements within the sentence, such as tissue or pro-cess, need to be looked at so that prior knowledge51Source of Evidence Figure LegendsTime Irrelevant 4Prior Knowledge 4Following Sentence 0Previous Sentence 14Current Paragraph 13Explicitly Stated 11Total 47Table 2: Location and type of evidence sufficient to resolve developmental stage in sentences withinfigure legends.
Rows as in Table 1, with Current Paragraph being equal to the whole of the legend.about those elements can be exploited for devel-opmental stage to be resolved.
For example, giventhe sentencePrior to formation of the ureteric bud,no ?8 expression was evident within themesenchyme that separates the urogen-ital ridge from the metanephric mes-enchyme and within the metanephricmesenchyme itself.the developmental stage can be resolved if weknow when the ureteric bud forms (TS17/E10.5).It could also be the case that the other tissuesor processes mentioned have a specific lifetimewithin development and these could help to fur-ther pinpoint the timeline involved for the lack of?8 expression.
For example,Pax2 was initiating in the metanephricmesenchyme undergoing induction.It is not so straightforward to assign a stage here,since the mesenchyme is constantly being inducedfrom E11 (TS18) until birth (TS26), but we haveat least discounted E1-E10 (TS1-TS17) as relevantstages.Resources such as the Mouse Atlas Nomencla-ture (MAN) (Ringwald et al, 1994) will providethe initial prior knowledge in order to resolve de-velopmental stage of events.
This describes thedifferent stages of development and the tissues inevidence at each stage, giving what is known as theabstract mouse.
From this abstract mouse, we canascertain the normal stage ranges where tissues ex-ist and use this knowledge for temporal resolution,taking care not to assume that tissues do not neces-sarily exist within the same stage range in mutantmice than in wild-type.
The prior knowledge data-bank can be recursively added to with facts fromevents already extracted from papers for use in fur-ther event extraction and their anchoring in time.5 Future Work5.1 Term NormalisationThere is no point extracting events descriptions ifwe cannot relate the events and their elements toeach other.
The event-denoting expressions iden-tified need to be normalised so that it can be recog-nised when two terms are referring to the same el-ement.Inconsistent terminology in the biomedical fieldis a known problem (Sinclair et al, 2002).
Onegene can have several names (synonymy) just asthe same name can be used for more than one gene(homonymy).
Very often the synonyms bear no re-lation to one another since they were perhaps con-currently discovered in different laboratories andnamed.
For example, the gene insomnia can alsobe known as cheap date, since experiments foundthat organisms without this gene have a tendencyto fall asleep and are particularly susceptible toalcohol.
The same anatomical part can also bereferred to by different terms, e.g.
the Wolffianduct is also known as the nephric duct, and themetanephros is another name for the kidney.
Thereis also a lineage issue, where a tissue with onename (or perhaps more) develops into somethingwith another name (e.g.
the intermediate meso-derm gives rise to both the Wolffian duct and themetanephric mesenchyme which in turn both de-velop into the metanephros.
The MAN includesthis type of information.Term normalisation is particularly important forthe process and tissue elements.
If these termsare not normalised, temporal knowledge about theterms may not be exploited and it may not be de-termined that events involving them are linked.525.2 Event ElementsIf the elements required to fully describe an eventare explicitly stated within a simple sentence, thentemporal grounding will be straightforward.
How-ever, this is unlikely to often be the case.
Morecomplex sentences will dictate the need for de-pendency relations to be determined so that eachevent?s elements can be identified.
Methods fordealing with missing or underspecified elementsthat are not resolved within the event descriptionitself will be investigated.A naive approach will first be investigated tofill these gaps: find the closest appropriate ele-ment in the previous context (varying the size ofthe window for how far back to look, such as cur-rent paragraph or last 3 sentences).
An error anal-ysis on this simple method will help to guide theamount of further work necessary to achieve equalsuccess across all elements.
For those elementsthat this method is ineffective, other methods willbe developed incorporating features such as sen-sitivity to syntax, event type and location withinarticle.
Similarly, it will be established whetherdifferent techniques are required for missing infor-mation than for underspecified information.
Theywill first be treated in the same manner with anal-ysis determining whether they should be treateddifferently.6 ConclusionThis ongoing work has shown the importance ofrelative time lines in order to link events to oneanother.
The identification of event elements andtheir normalisation will then form a basis for rea-soning over these elements with regards to firsttime-stamping of events and then temporally relat-ing the events.
The aim of many BioNLP studiesis ultimately to reason over extracted events and,as such, the relative timing of these events is cru-cial.
For example, if we know1.
tissue X is transformed into tissue Y at stage Sand2.
molecule M is expressed in X at stage S-1,then it can be reasoned that event 2 has an im-pact on event 1.
This reasoning can be made moresuccessful if we know as much about the eventsas possible, not just that tissue Y is formed andmolecule M is expressed.It has also been demonstrated that we not onlyneed to look beyond the sentence level for tempo-ral resolution but also beyond the article in order toreplicate the reader?s assumed level of backgroundknowledge.ReferencesJ.
F. Allen, Towards a general theory of action andtime, Artificial Intelligence, vol 23, pp 123-154,1984.M.
R. Eccles, S. He, M. Legge, R. Kumar, J.
Fox, C.Zhou, M. French and R. W. Tsai, .PAX genes indevelopment and disease: the role of PAX2 in uro-genital tract development.
Int J Dev Biol, vol 46, no4, pp 535-44, 2002.J.
Pustejovsky, I. Mani, L. Belanger, B. Bogurev, B.Knippen, J. Littman, A. Rumshisky, A.
See, S.Symonen, J.
Van Guilder, L. Van Guilder and M.Verhagen, The Specification Langeuage TimeML.in The Language of Time: A Reader, Oxford Uni-versity Press, 2004.D.
Ribes, E. Fischer, A. Calmont and J. Rossert, Tran-scriptional Control of Epithelial Differentiation dur-ing Kidney Development.
J Am Soc Nephrol, vol14, pp S9-S15, 2003.M.
Ringwald, R. A. Baldock, J. Bard, M. H. Kaufman,J.
T. Eppig, J. E. Richardson, J. H. Nadeau and D.Davidson, A database for mouse development.
Sci-ence, vol 265, pp 2033-2034, 1994.G.
Sajithlal, D. Zou, D. Silvius and P. X. Xu, Eya 1 actsas a critical regulator for specifying the metanephricmesenchyme.
Dev Biol, vol 284, no 2, pp 323-36,2005.F.
Schilder and C. Habel, From Temporal Expres-sions to Temporal Information: Semantic Taggingof News Message., in Proceedings of the ACL 2001Workshop on Temporal and Spatial Information Pro-cessing, Toulouse, France, pp 88-95.G.
Sinclair, B. Webber and D. Davidson, EnhancedNatural Language Access to Anatomically IndexedData.
in Proceedings of the ACL 2002 Workshopon Natural Language Processing in the BiomedicalDomain, Philadelphia, pp 45-52.K.
Theiler, The House Mouse.
Atlas of Embryonic De-velopment.
Springer Verlag New York, 1989.53
