Proceedings of the BioNLP Workshop on Linking Natural Language Processing and Biology at HLT-NAACL 06, pages 104?111,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing Dependency Parsing and Probabilistic Inference to Extract Rela-tionships between Genes, Proteins and Malignancies Implicit AmongMultiple Biomedical Research AbstractsBen Goertzel Hugo Pinto Ari HeljakkaApplied Research Lab for Nationaland Homeland SecurityNovamente LLC Novamente LLCVirginia Tech 1405 Bernerd Place 1405 Bernerd PlaceArlington VA 22216Rockville MD 20851 Rockville MD 20851ben@goertzel.org hugo@vettalabs.com heljakka@iki.fiIzabela Freire Goertzel Mike Ross Cassio PennachinNovamente LLC SAIC Novamente LLC1405 Bernerd Place 5971 Kingstowne Village Parkway 1405 Bernerd PlaceRockville MD 20851 Kingstowne, VA 22315 Rockville MD 20851izabela@goertzel.org miross@objectsciences.com cassio@vettalabs.comAbstractWe describe BioLiterate, a prototype softwaresystem which infers relationships involving re-lationships between genes, proteins and ma-lignancies from research abstracts, and has ini-tially been tested in the domain of the molecu-lar genetics of oncology.
The architecture usesa natural language processing module to ex-tract entities, dependencies and simple seman-tic relationships from texts, and then feedsthese features into a probabilistic reasoningmodule which combines the semantic relation-ships extracted by the NLP module to formnew semantic relationships.
One applicationof this system is the discovery of relationshipsthat are not contained in any individual ab-stract but are implicit in the combined knowl-edge contained in two or more abstracts.1 IntroductionBiomedical literature is growing at a breakneckpace, making the task of remaining current with alldiscoveries relevant to a given research area nearlyimpossible without the use of advanced NLP-basedtools (Jensen et al 2006).
Two classes of tools thatprovide great value in this regard are those thathelp researchers find relevant documents and sen-tences in  large bodies of biomedical texts (M?ller,2004; Schuler, 1996; Tanabe, 1999), and those thatautomatically extract knowledge from a set ofdocuments (Smalheiser and Swanson, 1998;Rzhetsky et al 2004).
Our work falls into the lattercategory.
We have created a prototype softwaresystem called BioLiterate, which applies depend-ency parsing and advanced probabilistic inferenceto the problem of combining semantic relationshipsextracted from biomedical texts, have tested thissystem via experimentation on research abstracts inthe domain of the molecular genetics of oncology.In order to concentrate our efforts on the infer-ence aspect of biomedical text mining, we havebuilt our BioLiterate system on top of a number ofgeneral NLP and specialized bioNLP componentscreated by others.
For example, we have handledentity extraction -- perhaps the most mature exist-ing bioNLP technology (Kim, 2004) -- via incorpo-rating a combination of existing open-source tools.And we have handled syntax parsing via integrat-104ing a modified version of the link parser (Sleatorand Temperley, 1992).The BioLiterate system is quite general in ap-plicability, but in our work so far we have focusedon the specific task of extracting relationships re-garding interactions between genes, proteins andmalignancies contained in, or implicit among mul-tiple, biomedical research abstracts.
This applica-tion is critical because the extraction of pro-tein/gene/disease relationships from text is neces-sary for the discovery of metabolic pathways andnon-trivial disease causal chains, among other ap-plications (N?dellec, 2005; Davulcu, 2005, Ah-med, 2005).Systems extracting these sorts of relationshipsfrom text have been developed using a variety oftechnologies, including support vector machines(Donaldson et al 2003), maximum entropy modelsand graph algorithms (McDonald, 2005), Markovmodels and first order logic (Riedel, 2005) andfinite state automata (Hakenberg, 2005).
How-ever, these systems are limited in the relationshipsthat they can extract.
Most of them focus on rela-tionships described in single sentences.
The resultswe report here support the hypothesis that themethods embodied in BioLiterate, when developedbeyond the prototype level and implemented in ascalable way, may be significantly more powerful,particularly in the extraction of relationships whosetextual description exists in multiple sentences ormultiple documents.Overall, the extraction of both entities and sin-gle-sentence-embodied inter-entity relationshipshas proved far more difficult in the biomedicaldomain than in other domains such as newspapertext (N?dellec, 2005; Jing et al 2003; Pyysalo,2004).
One reason for this is the lack of resources,such as large tagged corpora, to allow statisticalNLP systems to perform as well as in the newsdomain.
Another is that biomedical text has manyfeatures that are quite uncommon or even non-existent in newspaper text (Pyysalo, 2004), such asnumerical post-modifiers of nouns (Serine 38),non-capitalized entity names (?ftsY is solely ex-pressed during...), hyphenated verbs (X cross-linksY), nominalizations, and uncommon usage of pa-rentheses (sigma(H)-dependent expression ofspo0A).
While recognizing the critical importanceof overcoming these issues more fully, we have notaddressed them in any novel way in the context ofour work on BioLiterate, but have rather chosen tofocus attention on the other end of the pipeline:using inference to piece together relationships ex-tracted from separate sentences, to construct newrelationships implicit among multiple sentences ordocuments.The BioLiterate system incorporates three maincomponents: an NLP system that outputs entities,dependencies and basic semantic relations; a prob-abilistic reasoning system (PLN = ProbabilisticLogic Networks); and a collection of hand-builtsemantic mapping rules used to mediate betweenthe two prior components.One of the hypotheses underlying our work isthat the use of probabilistic inference in a bioNLPcontext may allow the capturing of relationshipsnot covered by existing systems, particularly thosethat are implicit or spread among several abstracts.This application of BioLiterate is reminiscent ofthe Arrowsmith system (Smalheiser and Swanson,1998), which is focused on creating novel bio-medical discoveries via combining pieces of in-formation from different research texts; however,Arrowsmith is oriented more toward guiding hu-mans to make discoveries via well-directed litera-ture search, rather than more fully automating thediscovery process via unified NLP and inference.Our work with the BioLiterate prototype hastentatively validated this hypothesis via the pro-duction of interesting examples, e.g.
of conceptu-ally straightforward deductions combining prem-ises contained in different research papers.1  Ourfuture research will focus on providing more sys-tematic statistical validation of this hypothesis.2 System OverviewFor the purpose of running initial experimentswith the BioLiterate system, we restricted our at-tention to texts from the domain of molecular ge-netics of oncology, mostly selected from the Pub-MEd subset selected for the PennBioNE project(Mandel, 2006).
Of course, the BioLiterate archi-tecture in general is not restricted to any particulartype or subdomain of texts.The system is composed of a series of compo-nents arranged in a pipeline: Tokenizer ?Gene,1  It is worth noting that inference which appear conceptually to be ?straight-forward deductions?
often manifest themselves within BioLiterate as PLNinference chains with 1-2 dozen inferences.
This is mostly because of the rela-tively complex way in which logical relationships emerge from semantic map-ping, and also because of the need for inferences that explicitly incorporate?obvious?
background knowledge.105Protein and Malignancy Tagger ?
NominalizationTagger ?
Sentence Extractor ?
Dependency Ex-tractor ?
Relationship Extractor ?
SemanticMapper ?
Probabilistic Reasoning System.Each component, excluding the semantic map-per and probabilistic reasoner, is realized as aUIMA (G?tz and Suhre, 2004) annotator, with in-formation being accumulated in each document aseach phase occurs.2The gene/protein and malignancy taggers collec-tively constitute our ?entity extraction?
subsystem.Our entity extraction subsystem and the tokenizerwere adapted from PennBioTagger (McDonald etal, 2005; Jin et al 2005; Lerman et al 2006).
Thetokenizer uses a maximum entropy model trainedupon biomedical texts, mostly in the oncology do-main.
Both the protein and malignancy taggerswere built using conditional random fields.The nominalization tagger detects nominaliza-tions that represent possible relationships thatwould otherwise go unnoticed.
For instance, in thesentence excerpt ??
intracellular signal transduc-tion leading to transcriptional activation??
both?transduction?
and ?activation?
are tagged.
Thenominalization tagger uses a set of rules based onword morphology and immediate context.Before a sentence passes from these early proc-essing stages into the dependency extractor, whichcarries out syntax parsing, a substitution process iscarried out in which its tagged entities are replacedwith simple unique identifiers.
This way, manytext features that often impact parser performanceare left out, such as entity names that have num-bers or parenthesis as post-modifiers.The dependency extractor component carries outdependency grammar parsing via a customizedversion of the open-source Sleator and Temperleylink parser (1993).
The link parser outputs severalparses, and the dependencies of the best one aretaken.3The relationship extractor component is com-posed of a number of template matching algo-rithms that act upon the link parser?s output to pro-duce a semantic interpretation of the parse.
Thiscomponent detects implied quantities, normalizespassive and active forms into the same representa-2 The semantic mapper will be incorporated into the UIMA framework in a laterrevision of the software.3 We have experimented with using other techniques for selecting dependencies,such as getting the most frequent ones, but variations in this aspect did notimpact our results significantly.tion and assigns tense and number to the sentenceparts.
Another way of conceptualizing this compo-nent is as a system that translates link parser de-pendencies into a graph of semantic primitives(Wierzbicka, 1996), using a natural semantic meta-language (Goddard, 2002).Table 1 below shows some of the primitive se-mantic relationships used, and their associated linkparser links:subj Subject S, R, RSObj Direct object O, Pv, BObj-2 Indirect object O, Bthat Clausal Complement TH, Cto-do  Subject Raising Complement(do)I, TO, PgTable 1.
Semantic Primitives and Link Parser LinksFor a concrete example, suppose we have thesentences:a) Kim kissed Pat.b) Pat was kissed by Kim.Both would lead to the extracted relationships:subj(kiss, Kim), obj(kiss, Pat)For a more interesting case consider:c) Kim likes to laugh.d) Kim likes laughing.Both will have a to-do (like, laugh) seman-tic relation.Next, this semantic representation, together withentity information, is feed into the Semantic Map-per component, which applies a series of hand-created rules whose purpose is to transform theoutput of the Relationship Extractor into logicalrelationships that are fully abstracted from theirsyntactic origin and suitable for abstract inference.The need for this additional layer may not be ap-parent a priori, but arises from the fact that theoutput of the Relationship Extractor is still in asense ?too close to the syntax.?
The rules usedwithin the Relationship Extractor are crisp ruleswith little context-dependency, and could fairlyeasily be built into a dependency parser (thoughthe link parser is not architected in such a way asto make this pragmatically feasible); on the other106hand, the rules used in the Semantic Mapper areoften dependent upon semantic information aboutthe words being interrelated, and would be morechallenging to integrate into the parsing process.As an example, the semantic mapping ruleby($X,$Y) & Inh($X, transitive_event) ?subj ($X,$Y)maps the relationship by(prevention, inhi-bition), which is output by the Relationship Ex-tractor, into the relationship subj(prevention, inhi-bition), which is an abstract conceptual relation-ship suitable for semantic inference by PLN.
Itperforms this mapping because it has knowledgethat ?prevention?
inherits (Inh) from the semanticcategory transitive_event, which lets it guesswhat the appropriate sense of ?by?
might be.Finally, the last stage in the BioLiterate pipelineis probabilistic inference, which is carried out bythe Probabilistic Logic Networks4 (PLN) system(Goertzel et al in preparation) implemented withinthe Novamente AI Engine integrated AI architec-ture (Goertzel and Pennachin, 2005; Looks et al2004).
PLN is a comprehensive uncertain infer-ence framework that combines probabilistic andheuristic truth value estimation formulas within aknowledge representation framework capable ofexpressing general logical information, and pos-sesses flexible inference control heuristics includ-ing forward-chaining, backward-chaining and rein-forcement-learning-guided approaches.Among the notable aspects of PLN is its use oftwo-valued truth values: each PLN statement istagged with a truth value containing at least twocomponents, one a probability estimate and theother a ?weight of evidence?
indicating the amountof evidence that the probability estimate is basedon.
PLN contains a number of different inferencerules, each of which maps a premise-set of a cer-tain logical form into a conclusion of a certainlogical form, using an associated truth-value for-mula to map the truth values of the premises intothe truth value of the conclusion.The PLN component receives the logical rela-tionships output by the semantic mapper, and per-forms reasoning operations on them, with the aimat arriving at new conclusions implicit in the set ofrelationships fed to it.
Some of these conclusions4 Previously named Probabilistic Term Logicmay be implicit in a single text fed into the system;others may emerge from the combination of multi-ple texts.In some cases the derivation of useful conclu-sions from the semantic relationships fed to PLNrequires ?background knowledge?
relationships notcontained in the input texts.
Some of these back-ground knowledge relationships represent specificbiological or medical knowledge, and others repre-sent generic ?commonsense knowledge.?
Themore background knowledge is fed into PLN, thebroader the scope of inferences it can draw.One of the major unknowns regarding the cur-rent approach is how much background knowledgewill need to be supplied to the system in order toenable truly impressive performance across the fullrange of biomedical research abstracts.
There aremultiple approaches to getting this knowledge intothe system, including hand-coding (the approachwe have taken in our BioLiterate work so far) andautomated extraction of relationships from relevanttexts beyond research abstracts, such as databases,ontologies and textbooks.
While this is an ex-tremely challenging problem, we feel that due tothe relatively delimited nature of the domain, theknowledge engineering issues faced here are farless severe than those confronting projects such asCyc (Lenat, 1986; Guha, 1990; Guha, 1994) andSUMO (Niles, 2001) which seek to encode com-monsense knowledge in a broader, non-domain-specific way.3 A Practical ExampleWe have not yet conducted a rigorous statisticalevaluation of the performance of the BioLiteratesystem.
This is part of our research plan, but willinvolve considerable effort, due to the lack of anyexisting evaluation corpus for the tasks that Bio-Literate performs.
For the time being, we haveexplored BioLiterate?s performance anecdotallyvia observing its behavior on various example ?in-ference problems?
implicit in groups of biomedicalabstracts.
This section presents one such examplein moderate detail (full detail being infeasible dueto space limitations).Table 2 shows two sentences drawn from differ-ent PubMed abstracts, and then shows the conclu-sions that BioLiterate draws from the combinationof these two sentences.
The table shows the con-clusions in natural language format, but the system107actually outputs conclusions in logical relationshipform as detailed below.Premise 1 Importantly, bone loss was almostcompletely prevented by p38 MAPKinhibition.
(PID 16447221)Premise 2 Thus, our results identify DLC as anovel inhibitor of the p38 pathway andprovide a molecular mechanism bywhich cAMP suppresses p38 activa-tion and promotes apoptosis.
(PID16449637)(Uncertain)ConclusionsDLC prevents bone loss.cAMP prevents bone loss.Table 2.
An example conclusion drawn by BioLiteratevia combining relationships extracted from sentencescontained in different PubMed abstracts.
The PIDshown by each premise sentence is the PubMed ID ofthe abstract from which it was drawn.Tables 3-4 explore this example in more detail.Table 3 shows the relationship extractor output,and then the semantic mapper output, for the twopremise sentences.Premise 1Rel Ex.Output_subj-n(bone, loss)_obj(prevention, loss)_subj-r(almost, completely)_subj-r(completely, prevention)by(prevention, inhibition)_subj-n(p38 MAPK, inhibition)Premise 2Sem MapOutputsubj (prevention, inhibition)obj (prevention, loss)obj (inhibition, p38_MAPK)obj (loss, bone)Premise 1Rel ExOutput_subj(identify, results)as(identify, inhibitor)_obj(identify, DLC)_subj-a(novel, inhibitor)of(inhibitor, pathway)_subj-n(p38, pathway)Premise 2Sem MapOutputsubj (inhibition, DLC)obj (inhibition, pathway)inh(pathway, p38)Table 3.
Intermediary processing stages for the twopremise sentences in the example in Table 2.Table 4 shows a detailed ?inference trail?
consti-tuting part of the reasoning done by PLN to drawthe inference ?DLC prevents bone loss?
from theseextracted semantic relationships, invoking back-ground knowledge from its knowledge base as ap-propriate.The notation used in Table 4 is so that, for in-stance, Inh inhib  inhib  is synonymous withinh(inhib , inhib ) and denotes an Inheri-tance relationship between the terms inhibitionand inhibition  (the textual shorthands used in thetable are described in the caption).
The logicalrelationships used are Inheritance, Implication,AND (conjunction) and Evaluation.
Evaluation isthe relation between a predicate and its arguments;e.g.
Eval subj(inhib , DLC) means that thesubj predicate holds when applied to the list (in-hib , DLC).
These particular logical relation-ships are reviewed in more depth in (Goertzel andPennachin, 2005; Looks et al 2004).
Finally, in-dent notation is used to denote argument structure,so that e.g.1 21 21222RABis synonymous with R(A,B).PLN is an uncertain inference system, whichmeans that each of the terms and relationships usedas premises, conclusions or intermediaries in PLNinference come along with uncertain truth values.In this case the truth value of the conclusion at theend of Table 4 comes out to <.8,.07>, which indi-cates that the system guesses the conclusion is truewith probability .8, and that its confidence that thisprobability assessment is roughly correct is .07.Confidence values are scaled between 0 and 1: .07is a relatively low confidence, which is appropriategiven the speculative nature of the inference.
Notethat this is far higher than the confidence thatwould be attached to a randomly generated rela-tionship, however.The only deep piece of background knowledgeutilized by PLN in the course of this inference isthe knowledge that:ImplicationANDInh X  causal_event 1Inh X2 causal_eventsubj(X1, X3)subj(X2, X1)subj(X2,X3)which encodes the transitivity of causation in termsof the subj relationship.
The other knowledge108used consisted of simple facts such as the inheri-tance of inhibition and prevention from the cate-gory causal_event.Premises RuleConclusionInh inhib1, inhibInh inhib2, inhibAbductionInh inhib1, inhib2 <.19, .99>Eval subj (prev1, inhib1)Inh inhib1, inhib2SimilaritySubstitutionEval subj (prev1   inhib2)  <1,.07>Inh inhib2, inhibInh inhib, causal_eventDeductionInh inhib2, causal_event <1,1>Inh inhib2, causal_eventInh prev1, causal_eventEval subj (prev1, inhib2)Eval subj (inhib2, DLC)ANDAND <1, .07>Inh inhib2, causal_eventInh prev1, causal_eventEval subj (prev1, inhib2)Eval subj (inhib2, DLC)ForAll (X0, X1, X2)ImpANDInh X0, causal_eventInh X1, causal_eventEval subj (X1, X0)Eval subj (X0, X2)Eval subj (X1,  X2)ANDInh inhib2, causal_eventInh prev1, causal_eventEval subj (prev1, inhib2)Eval subj (inhib2, DLC)UnificationEval subj (prev1, inhib2)  <1,.07>ImpANDInh inhib2, causal_eventInh prev1, causal_eventEval subj (prev1, inhib2)Eval subj (inhib2, DLC)Eval subj (prev1, DLC)ImplicationBreakdown(ModusPonens)Eval subj (prev1, DLC)  <.8, .07>Table 4.
Part of the PLN inference trail underlyingExample 1.
This shows the series of inferences leadingup to the conclusion that the prevention act prev1 iscarried out by the subject DLC.
A shorthand notation isused here: Eval = Evaluation, Imp = Implication, Inh =Inheritance, inhib = inhibition, prev = prevention.
Forinstance, prev1 and prev2 denote terms that are particularinstances of the general concept of prevention.
Relation-ships used in premises along the trail, but not producedas conclusions along the trail, were introduced into thetrail via the system looking in its knowledge base toobtain the previously computed truth value of a relation-ship, which was found via prior knowledge or a priorinference trail.4 DiscussionWe have described a prototype bioNLP system,BioLiterate, aimed at demonstrating the viability ofusing probabilistic inference to draw conclusionsbased on logical relationships extracted from mul-tiple biomedical research abstracts using NLPtechnology.
The preliminary results we have ob-tained via applying BioLiterate in the domain ofthe genetics of oncology suggest that the approachis potentially viable for the extraction of hypotheti-cal interactions between genes, proteins and ma-lignancies from sets of sentences spanning multipleabstracts.
One of our foci in future research willbe the rigorous validation of the performance ofthe BioLiterate system in this domain, via con-struction of an appropriate evaluation corpus.In our work with BioLiterate so far, we haveidentified a number of examples where PLN is ableto draw biological conclusions by combining sim-ple semantic relationships extracted from differentbiological research abstracts.
Above we reviewedone of these examples.
This sort of application isparticularly interesting because it involves soft-ware potentially creating relationships that may nothave been explicitly known by any human, becausethey existed only implicitly in the connections be-tween many different human-written documents.In this sense, the BioLiterate approach blurs theboundary between NLP information extraction andautomated scientific discovery.Finally, by experimenting with the BioLiterateprototype we have come to some empirical conclu-sions regarding the difficulty of several parts of thepipeline.
First, entity extraction remains a chal-lenge, but not a prohibitively difficult one.
Oursystem definitely missed some important relation-ships because of imperfect entity extraction butthis was not the most problematic component.Sentence parsing was a more serious issue forBioLiterate performance.
The link parser in itspure form had very severe shortcomings, but wewere able to introduce enough small modificationsto obtain adequate performance.
Substituting un-109common and multi-word entity names with simplenoun identifiers (a suggestion we drew from Pyy-salo, 2004) reduced the error rate significantly, viabypassing problems related to wrong guessing ofunknown words, improper handling of parentheses,and excessive possible-parse production.
Otherimprovements we may incorporate in future in-clude augmenting the parser?s dictionary to includebiomedical terms (Slozovits, 2003), pre-processingso as to split long and complex sentences intoshorter, simpler ones (Ding et al 2003), modifyingthe grammar to handle with unknown constructs,and changing the link parser?s ranking system (Py-ysalo, 2004).The inferences involved in our BioLiterate workso far have been relatively straightforward for PLNonce the premises have been created.
More com-plex inferences may certainly be drawn in the bio-medical domain, but the weak link inference-wiseseems to be the provision of inference with the ap-propriate premises, rather than the inference proc-ess itself.The most challenging aspects of the work in-volved semantic mapping and the supplying ofrelevant background knowledge.
The creation ofappropriate semantic mapping rules can be subtlebecause these rules sometimes rely on the semanticcategories of the words involved in the relation-ships they transform.
The execution of even com-monsensically simple biomedical inferences oftenrequires the combination of abstract and concretebackground knowledge.
These are areas we willfocus on in our future work, as achieving a scalableapproach will be critical in transforming the cur-rent BioLiterate prototype into a production-quality system capable of assisting biomedical re-searchers to find appropriate information, and ofdrawing original and interesting conclusions bycombining pieces of information scattered acrossthe research literature.AcknowledgementsThis research was partially supported by a contractwith the NIH Clinical Center in September-November 2005, arranged by Jim DeLeo.ReferencesChan-Goo Kang and Jong C. Park.
2005.
Generation ofCoherent Gene Summary with Concept-Linking Sen-tences.
Proceedings of the International Symposiumon Languages in Biology and Medicine (LBM),pages 41-45, Daejeon, Korea, November, 2005.Claire N?dellec.
2005.
Learning Language in Logic -Genic Interaction Extraction Challenge.
Proceedingsof The 22nd International Conference on MachineLearning, Bonn, Germany.Cliff Goddard.
2002.
The On-going Development of theNSM Research Program.
Ch 5 (pp.
301-321) ofMeaning and Universal Grammar - Theory and Em-pirical Findings.
Volume II.
Amsterdam: John Ben-jamins.Davulcu, H et Al.
2005.
IntEx?
: A Syntactic RoleDriven Protein-Protein Interaction Extractor for Bio-Medical Text.
Proceedings of the ACL-ISMB Work-shop on Linking Biological Literature, Ontologiesand Databases: Mining Biological Semantics.
De-troit.Donaldson, Ian,  Joel Martin, Berry de Bruijn, CherylWolting et al 2003.
PreBIND and Textomy - miningthe biomedical literature for protein-protein interac-tions using a support vector machine.
BMC Bioin-formatics, 4:11,Friedman C, Kra P, Yu H, Krauthammer M, Rzhetsky.2001.
A. GENIES: a natural-language processingsystem for the extraction of molecular pathways fromjournal articles.
Bioinformatics Jun;17 Suppl 1:S74-82.Goertzel, Ben and Cassio Pennachin.
2005.
ArtificialGeneral Intelligence.
Springer-Verlag.Goertzel, Ben, Matt Ikle?, Izabela Goertzel and Ari Hel-jakka.
2006.
Probabilistic Logic Networks.
Inpreparation.G?tz, T and Suhre, O.
2004.
Design and implementationof the UIMA Common Analysis System.
IBM SystemsJournal.
V 43, number 3. pages 476-489 .Guha, R. V., & Lenat, D. B.
1994.
Enabling agents towork together.
Communications of the ACM, 37(7),127-142.Guha, R.V.
and Lenat,D.B.
1990.
Cyc: A Midterm Re-port.
AI Magazine 11(3):32-59.Hakenberg, .
et al 2205.
LLL'05 Challenge: Genic In-teraction Extraction -- Identification of LanguagePatterns Based on Alignment and Finite State Auto-mata.
Proceedings of The 22nd International Confer-ence on Machine Learning, Bonn, Germany.
2005.Hoffmann, R., Valencia, A.
2005.
Implementing theiHOP concept for navigation of biomedical litera-ture.
Bioinformatics 21(suppl.
2), ii252-ii258 (2005).110Ian Niles and Adam Pease.
2001.
Towards a StandardUpper Ontology.
In Proceedings of the 2nd Interna-tional Conference on Formal Ontology in Informa-tion Systems (FOIS-2001), Ogunquit, Maine, Octo-ber 2001Jensen, L.J., Saric, J and Bork, P. 2006.
Literature Min-ing for the biologist: from information retrieval tobiological discovery.
Nature Reviews.
Vol 7. pages119-129.
Natura Publishing Group.
2006.Jing Ding.
2003.
Extracting biomedical interactionswith from medline using a link grammar parser.
Pro-ceedings of 15th IEEE international Conference onTools With Artificial Intelligence.Kim, Jim-Dong et al 2004.
Introduction to the Bio-NLPEntity Task at JNLPBA 2004.
In Proceedings ofJNLPBA 2004.Lenat, D., Prakash, M., & Shepard, M. 1986.
CYC: Us-ing common sense knowledge to overcome brittlenessand knowledge acquisition bottlenecks.
AI Magazine,6(4), 65-85Lerman, K , McDonal, R., Jin, Y. and Pancoast, E. Uni-versity of Pennsylvania BioTagger.
2006.http://www.seas.upenn.edu/~ryantm/software/BioTagger/Looks, Moshe, Ben Goertzel and Cassio Pennachin.2004.
Novamente: An Integrative Approach to Arti-ficial General Intelligence.
AAAI Symposium onAchieving Human-Level Intelligence Through Inte-grated Systems and Research, Washington DC, Oc-tober 2004Mandel, Mark.
2006.
Mining the Bibliome.
February,2006 http://bioie.ldc.upenn.eduMark A. Greenwood, Mark Stevenson, Yikun Guo,Henk Harkema, and Angus Roberts.
2005.
Auto-matically Acquiring a Linguistically Motivated GenicInteraction Extraction System.
In Proceedings of the4th Learning Language in Logic Workshop (LLL05),Bonn, Germany.McDonald, F. Pereira, S. Kulick, S. Winters, Y. Jin andP.
White.
2005.
Simple Algorithms for Complex Re-lation Extraction with Applications to Biomedical IE.R.
43rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, 2005.M?ller, H. M., Kenny, E. E. and Sternberg, P. W. 2004.Textpresso: An Ontology-Based Information Re-trieval and Extraction System for Biological Litera-ture.
PLoS Biol 2(11): e309Pyysalo, S. et al 2004.
Analisys of link Grammar onBiomedical Dependency Corpus Targeted at Protein-Protein Interactions.
In Proceedings of JNLPBA2004.Riedel, et al 2005.
Genic Interaction Extraction withSemantic and Syntactic Chains.
Proceedings of The22nd International Conference on Machine Learning,Bonn, Germany.Ryan McDonald and Fernando Pereira.
2005.
Identify-ing gene and protein mentions in text using condi-tional random fields.
BMC Bioinformatics 2005,6(Suppl 1):S6Rzhetsky A, Iossifov I, Koike T, Krauthammer M, KraP, Morris M, Yu H, Duboue PA, Weng W, WilburWJ, Hatzivassiloglou V, Friedman C. 2004.
Gene-Ways: a system for extracting, analyzing, visualizing,and integrating molecular pathway data.
Journal ofBiomedical Informatics 37(1):43-53.Sleator, Daniel and Dave Temperley.
1993.
ParsingEnglish with a Link Grammar.
Third InternationalWorkshop on Parsing Technologies,  Tilburg, TheNetherlands.Smalheiser, N. L and Swanson D. R. 1996.
Linking es-trogen to Alzheimer's disease: an informatics ap-proach.
Neurology 47(3):809-10.Smalheiser, N. L and Swanson, D. R. 1998.
Using AR-ROWSMITH: a computer-assisted approach to for-mulating and assessing scientific hypotheses.
Com-put Methods Programs Biomed.
57(3):149-53.Syed Ahmed et al 2005.
IntEx: A Syntactic Role DrivenProtein-Protein Interaction Extractor for Bio-Medical Text.
Proc.
of BioLink '2005, Detroit,Michigan, June 24, 2005Szolovits, Peter.
2003.
Adding a medical lexicon to anEnglish parser.
Proceedings of 2003 AMIA AnnualSymposium.
Bethesda.
MD.Tanabe, L. U. Scherf, L. H. Smith, J. K. Lee, L. Hunterand J. N. Weinstein.
1999.
MedMiner: an InternetText-Mining Tool for Biomedical Information, withApplication to Gene Expression Profiling.
BioTech-niques 27:1210-1217.Wierzbicka, Anna.
1996.
Semantics, Primes and Uni-versals.
Oxford University Press.111
