Numerical Data Integration for Cooperative Question-AnsweringVe?ronique MoriceauInstitut de Recherche en Informatique de Toulouse118, route de Narbonne31062 Toulouse cedex 09, Francemoriceau@irit.frAbstractIn this paper, we present an approachwhich aims at providing numerical an-swers in a question-answering system.These answers are generated in a coop-erative way: they explain the variation ofnumerical values when several values, ap-parently incoherent, are extracted from theweb as possible answers to a question.1 IntroductionSearch engines on the web and most existingquestion-answering systems provide the user witha set of hyperlinks and/or web page extracts con-taining answer(s) to a question.
These answersmay be incoherent to a certain degree: they may beequivalent, complementary, contradictory, at dif-ferent levels of precision or specifity, etc.
It is thenquite difficult for the user to know which answeris the correct one.In a cooperative perspective, we propose an ap-proach for answer generation in natural languagewhich uses answer integration.
When severalpossible answers are selected by the extractionengine, the goal is to define a coherent core fromcandidate answers and to generate a cooperativeanswer, i.e.
an answer with explanations.
Weassume that all web pages are equally reliablesince page provenance information (defined in(McGuinness and Pinheiro da Silva, 2004) e.g.,source, date, author, etc.)
is difficult to obtain.To adequately deal with data integration inquestion-answering, it is essential to define pre-cisely relations existing between potential an-swers.
In this introduction, we first present relatedworks.
Then, we define a general typology of re-lations between candidate answers.1.1 Related worksMost of existing systems on the web produce aset of answers to a question in the form of hyper-links or page extracts, ranked according to a rel-evance score.
For example, COGEX (Moldovanet al, 2003) uses its logic prover to extract lexicalrelationships between the question and its candi-date answers.
The answers are then ranked basedon their proof scores.
Other systems define rela-tionships between web page extracts or texts con-taining possible answers: for example, (Radev andMcKeown, 1998) and (Harabagiu and Lacatusu,2004) define agreement (when two sources reportthe same information), addition (when a secondsource reports additional information), contradic-tion (when two sources report conflicting informa-tion), etc.
These relations can be classified intothe 4 relations defined by (Webber et al, 2002),i.e.
inclusion, equivalence, aggregation and al-ternative which we present below.Most question-answering systems provide an-swers which take into account neither informationgiven by all candidate answers nor their inconsis-tency.
This is the point we focus on in the follow-ing section.1.2 A general typology of integrationmechanismsTo better characterize our problem, we collecteda corpus of about 100 question-answer pairs inFrench that reflect different inconsistency prob-lems (most of pairs are obtained via Google orQRISTAL1).
We first assume that all candidate an-swers obtained via an extraction engine are poten-tially correct, i.e.
they are of the semantic typeexpected by the question.1www.qristal.fr, Synapse De?veloppement.42 KRAQ06For each question of our corpus, a set of possi-ble answers is extracted from the web.
The goalof our corpus analysis is to identify relations be-tween those answers and to define a general typol-ogy of associated integration mechanisms.
We usefor this purpose the 4 relations defined in (Web-ber et al, 2002) and for each relation, we proposeone or several integration mechanisms in order togenerate answers which take into account charac-teristics and particularities of candidate answers.1.2.1 InclusionA candidate answer is in an inclusion relationif it entails another answer (for example, conceptsof candidate answers linked in an ontology by theis-a or part-of relations).
For example, in Brittanyand in France are correct answers to the questionWhere is Brest?, linked by an inclusion relationsince Brittany is a part of France.1.2.2 EquivalenceCandidate answers which are linked by anequivalence relation are consistent and entail mu-tually.
The corpus analysis allows us to identifytwo main types of equivalence:(1) Lexical equivalence: use of acronyms orforeign language, synonymies, metonymies, para-phrases, proportional series.
For example, to thequestion Who killed John Lennon?, Mark Chap-man, the murderer of John Lennon and JohnLennon?s killer Mark Chapman are equivalent an-swers.
(2) Equivalence with inference: in a number ofcases, some common knowledge, inferences orcomputations are necessary to detect equivalencerelations.
For example, The A320 is 22 and TheA320 was built in 1984 are equivalent answers tothe question How old is the Airbus A320?.1.2.3 AggregationThe aggregation relation defines a set of con-sistent answers when the question accepts severaldifferent ones.
In this case, all candidate answersare potentially correct and can be integrated in theform of a conjunction of all these answers.
Forexample, an answer to the question Where is Dis-neyland?
can be in Tokyo, Paris, Hong-Kong andLos Angeles.1.2.4 AlternativeThe alternative relation defines a set of inconsis-tent answers.
In the case of questions expecting aunique answer, only one answer among candidatesis correct.
On the contrary, all candidates can becorrect answers.
(1) A simple solution is to propose a disjunc-tion of candidate answers.
For example, if thequestion When does autumn begin?
has the can-didate answers Autumn begins on September 21stand Autumn begins on September 20th, an answersuch as Autumn begins on either September 20thor September 21st can be proposed.
(Moriceau,2005) proposes an integration method for answersof type date.
(2) If candidate answers have common charac-teristics, it is possible to integrate them accordingto these characteristics (?greatest common denom-inator?).
For example, the question When does the?fe?te de la musique?
take place?
has the follow-ing answers June 1st 1982, June 21st 1983, ...,June 21st 2005.
Here, the extraction engine se-lects pages containing the dates of music festivalsover the years.
Since these candidate answers haveday and month in common, an answer such as The?fe?te de la musique?
takes place every June 21stcan be proposed (Moriceau, 2005).
(3) Numerical values can be integrated in theform of an interval, average or comparison.
Forexample, if the question How far is Paris fromToulouse?
has the candidate answers 713 km, 678km and 681 km, answers such as Paris is at about690 km from Toulouse (average) or The distancebetween Paris and Toulouse is between 678 and713 km (interval) can be proposed.2 MotivationsIn this paper, we focus on answer elaborationfrom several answers of type numerical (case (3)above).
Numerical questions deal with numericalproperties such as distance, quantity, weight, age,etc.
In order to identify the different problems, letus consider the following example :What is the average age of marriage in France?- In 1972, the average age of marriage was 24.5for men and 22.4 for women.
In 2005, it is 30 formen and 28 for women.- According to an investigation carried out byFNAIM in 1999, the average age of marriage is27.7 for women and 28.9 for men.- The average age of marriage in France increasedfrom 24.5 to 26.9 for women and from 26.5 to 29for men between 1986 and 1995.This set of potential answers may seem incoher-ent but their internal coherence can be made ap-43 KRAQ06parent once a variation criterion is identified.
In acooperative perspective, an answer can be for ex-ample:In 2005, the average age of marriage in France is30 for men and 28 for women.It increased by about 5.5 years between 1972 and2005.This answer is composed of:1. a direct answer to the question,2.
an explanation characterizing the variationmode of the numerical value.To generate this kind of answer, it is necessary (1)to integrate candidate answers in order to elabo-rate a direct answer (for example by solving incon-sistencies), and (2) to integrate candidate answerscharacteristics in order to generate an explanation.In the following sections, we first define a typol-ogy of numerical answers and then briefly presentthe general architecture of the system which gen-erates cooperative numerical answers.2.1 A typology of numerical answersTo define the different types of numerical answers,we collected a set of 80 question-answer pairsabout prices, quantities, age, time, weight, temper-ature, speed and distance.
The goal is to identifyfor each question-answer pair:- if the question expects one or several answers(learnt from texts and candidate answers),- why extracted numerical values are different (isthis an inconsistency?
an evolution?
).2.1.1 The question accepts only one answerFor example, How long is the Cannes Interna-tional Film Festival?.
In this case, if there are sev-eral candidate answers, there is an inconsistencywhich has to be solved (cf.
section 4.1).2.1.2 The question accepts several answersThis is the case when numerical values varyaccording to certain criteria.
Let us consider thefollowing examples.Example 1 :How many inhabitants are there in France?- Population census in France (1999): 61632485.- 61.7: number of inhabitants in France in 2004.In this example, the numerical value (quantity) isa property which changes over time (1999, 2004).Example 2 :What is the average age of marriage of women in2004?- In Iran, the average age of marriage of womenwent from 19 to 21 years in 2004.- In 2004, Moroccan women get married at theage of 27.In this example, the numerical value (age ofmarriage) varies according to place (in Iran,Moroccan).Example 3 :At which temperature do I have to serve wine?- Red wine must be served at room temperature.- Champagne: between 8 and 10 ?
C.- White wine: between 8 and 11 ?
C.Here, the numerical value (temperature) variesaccording to the question focus (wine).The corpus analysis allows us to identify 3 mainvariation criteria, namely time, place and restric-tion (restriction on the focus, for example: Cham-pagne/wine).
These criteria can be combined:some numerical values vary according to time andplace, to time and restrictions, etc.
(for exam-ple, the average age of marriage vary according totime, place and restrictions on men/women).
Notethat there are several levels of restrictions and thatonly restrictions of the same type can be compared(cf.
section 3.2).
For example, metropolitan pop-ulation and population of overseas regions are re-strictions of the same ontological type (geograph-ical place) whereas prison population is a restric-tion of a different type and is not comparable tothe previous ones.2.2 Architecture of the systemFigure 1 presents the general architecture of oursystem which allows us to generate answers andexplanations from several different numerical an-swers.Questions are submitted in natural language toQRISTAL which analyses them (focus, answer ex-pected type) and which selects potential answersfrom the web: QRISTAL searches web pages con-taining the keywords of the query and synonyms(extraction engine).
Then, an extraction gram-mar constructs a set of frames from candidate webpages.
From the frame set, the variation crite-ria and mode of the searched numerical value areidentified.
Finally, a natural language answer isgenerated explaining those characteristics.
Eachof these stages is presented in the next sections.44 KRAQ06Figure 1: Architecture3 Answer characterizationAnswer characterization consists in 2 main stages:- information extraction from candidate webpages,- characterization of variation (criteria and mode)of numerical values if necessary.3.1 Answer extractionOnce QRISTAL has selected candidate webpages (those containing the question focus andhaving the expected semantic type), a grammaris applied to extract information needed for thegeneration of an appropriate cooperative answer.This information is mainly:- the searched numerical value (val),- the unit of measure,- the question focus and its synonyms (focus)(for the moment, synonyms are not consideredbecause it requires a lot of resources, especially inan open domain),- the date and place of the information,- the restriction(s) on the question focus (essen-tially, adjectives or relative clauses).In addition, the corpus analysis shows thatsome other information is essential for inferingthe precision degree or the variation mode ofvalues.
It is mainly linguistic clues indicating:- the precision of the numerical value (for exampleadverbs or prepositions such as in about 700, ...),- a variation of the value (for example temporaladverbs, verbs of change/movement as in theprice increased to 200 euro).We define a frame ai which gathers all this in-formation for a numerical value:ai =???????
?V al =Precision =Unit =Focus =Date =P lace =Restriction =V ariation =???????
?A dedicated grammar extracts this informationfrom candidate web pages and produces the set Aof N candidate answers: A = {a1, ..., aN}.We use a gapping grammar (Dahl and Abramson,1984) to gap elements which are not useful (inthe example According to an investigation car-ried out by FNAIM in 1999, the average age ofmarriage is 27.7 for women and 28.9 for men, el-ements in bold are not useful).
We give below themain rules of the grammar, optional elements arebetween brackets:Answer ?
Nominal Sentence | Verbal SentenceNominal Sentence ?
Focus (Restriction), ..., (Date), ...,(Place), ..., (Precision) Val (Unit)Verbal Sentence ?
Focus (Restriction), ..., (Date), ...,(Place), ..., Verb, ..., (Precision) Val (Unit)Verb ?
VerbQuestion | VariationVerbQuestion ?
count | estimate | weigh | ...Variation ?
go up | decrease | ...Precision ?
about | on average | ...Place ?
Country | City | ...Time ?
Date | Period | ...Restriction ?
Adjective | Relative | ..........Figure 2 shows an extraction result.A syntactic analysis is also necessary to checkthe relevance of extracted information.
For exam-ple, suppose that the answer population of citiesof France which have more than 2000 inhabitants(...) is proposed to the question How many in-habitants are there in France?.
A syntactic anal-ysis has to identify the expression cities of Francewhich (...) as a restriction of population and to45 KRAQ06Figure 2: Results of extractioninfer that 2000 inhabitants is a property of thosecities and that it is not an answer to the question.We plan to investigate the lexical elements (prepo-sitions, predicative terms, etc.)
necessary to thisanalysis.Elements of extraction evaluation are presentedin figure 3: we submitted 30 questions to Googleand QRISTAL.
Our system can select the correctdirect answer provided that QRISTAL returns thecorrect answer among relevant pages (for 87% ofthe questions we evaluated) and that our grammarsucceeds in extracting relevant information (thishas to be evaluated).Figure 3: Elements of evaluation3.2 Variation criteriaOnce we have the frames representing the differentnumerical values, the goal is to determine if thereis a variation and to identify the variation criteriaof the value.
In fact, we assume that there is a vari-ation if there is at least k different numerical val-ues with different criteria (time, place, restriction)among the N frames (k is a rate which dependson N : the more candidate answers there are, thegreater is k).
Thus, a numerical value varies ac-cording to:1. time if card ({ai, such as ?
ai, aj ?
A,ai(V al) 6= aj(V al)?
ai(Unit) = aj(Unit)?
ai(Date) 6= aj(Date) }) ?
k2.
place if card ({ai, such as ?
ai, aj ?
A,ai(V al) 6= aj(V al)?
ai(Unit) = aj(Unit)?
ai(Place) 6= aj(Place) }) ?
k3.
restriction if card ({ai, such as?
ai, aj ?
A, ai(V al) 6= aj(V al)?
ai(Unit) = aj(Unit)?
ai(Restriction) 6= aj(Restriction)})?
k4.
time and place if (1) ?
(2)5. time and restriction if (1) ?
(3)6. place and restriction if (2) ?
(3)7. time, place and restriction if (1)?
(2)?
(3)Numerical values can be compared only if theyhave the same unit of measure.
If not, they have tobe converted.For each criterion (time, place or restriction),only information of the same semantic type and ofthe same ontological level can be compared.
Forexample, metropolitan population and prison pop-ulation are restrictions of a different ontologicallevel and cannot be compared.
In the same way,place criteria can only be compared if they havethe same ontological level: for example, prices inParis and in Toulouse can be compared becausethe ontological level of both places is city.
On thecontrary, prices in Paris and in France cannot becompared since the ontological levels are respec-tively city and country.
Several ontologies of ge-ographical places exist, for example (Maurel andPiton, 1999) but a deep analysis of restrictions isnecessary to identify the kind of implied knowl-edge.In the particular cases where no informationhas been extracted for some criteria, it is alsonecessary to define some comparison rules.
Thus,let crit ?
{time, place, restriction} andai, aj ?
A,- if no information has been extracted for 2 com-pared criteria, then we consider that those criteriaare equal (there is no information indicating thatthere is a variation according to those criteria),i.e.
if ai(crit) = ?
and aj(crit) = ?, then46 KRAQ06ai(crit) = aj(crit)- if no information has been extracted for one ofthe 2 compared criteria, then we consider thatthose criteria are different (there is a variation),i.e.
if ai(crit) = ?
and aj(crit) 6= ?, thenai(crit) 6= aj(crit)In the example of figure 2, the price varies ac-cording to time, place and restriction.
In the fol-lowing example (figure 4), the price of gas variesaccording to time (September 2005/ ?)
and place(Paris/Toulouse).
For space reasons, we give only2 frames for each example but it is obviously notsufficient to conclude.Figure 4: Example of variationVariation criteria of numerical values are learntfrom texts but can also be infered (or confirmed),for some domains, by common knowledge.
Forexample, the triangle inequality states that for anythree points x, y, z, we have:distance(x, y) ?
distance(x, z) + distance(z, y).From this, we can infer that a distance betweentwo points vary according to restriction (itinerary).In the following sections, we focus on numeri-cal values which vary according to time.3.3 Variation modeThe last step consists in identifying the variationmode of values.
The idea is to draw a trend (in-crease, decrease, ...) of variaton in time so that anexplanation can be generated.
For this purpose, wehave a set of couples (numerical value, date) repre-senting the set of extracted answers.
From this set,we draw a regression line (a line which comes asclose to the points as possible) which determinesthe relationship between the two variables valueand date.The correlation between two variables reflectsthe degree to which the variables are related.
Inparticular, Pearson?s correlation (r) reflects the de-gree of linear relationship between two variables.It ranges from +1 to ?1.
A correlation of +1means that there is a perfect positive linear rela-tionship between variables.
For example, figure5 shows that a positive Pearson?s correlation im-plies a general increase of values (trend) whereasa negative Pearson?s correlation implies a generaldecrease.
On the contrary, if r is low (?0.6 <r < 0.6), then the trend (increase or decrease) ismathematically considered as random 2.Figure 5: Variation modeThis method determines the variation mode ofnumerical values (it gives a variation trend) anddetermines if the values are strongly dependent ontime or not (the highest r is, the more the numeri-cal values are dependent on time).Figure 6 shows the results for the question Howmany inhabitants are there in France?
Differ-ent numerical values and associated dates are ex-tracted from web pages.
The Pearson?s correla-tion is 0.682 meaning that the number of inhab-itants increases according to time (between 1999and 2005).4 Answer generationOnce the searched numerical values have been ex-tracted and characterized by their variation crite-ria and mode, a cooperative answer is generated innatural language.
It is composed of two parts:1. a direct answer if available,2.
an explanation of the value variation.2Statistical Methods for Research Workers, R. Fisher(1925)47 KRAQ06Figure 6: Variation mode: How many inhabitantsare there in France?In the following sections, we present some prereq-uisites to the construction of each of these parts interm of resources and knowledge.4.1 Direct answer generationThere are mainly two cases: either one or severalcriteria are constrained by the question (as inHow many inhabitants are there in France in2005?
where criteria of place and time are given),or some criteria are omitted (or implicit) (asin How many inhabitants are there in France?where there is no information on time).
In thefirst case, the numerical value satisfying theconstraints is chosen (unification between thecriteria of the question and those extracted fromweb pages).
In the second case, we assume thatthe user wants to have the most recent information.We focus here on answers which vary accord-ing to time.
Aberrant values are first filtered outby applying classical statistical methods.
Then,when there is only one numerical value whichsatisfies the temporal constraint (given by thequestion or the most recent date), then the directanswer is generated from this value.
When thereis no numerical value satisfying the temporalconstraint, only the second part of the answer(explanation) is generated.In the case of several numerical values satisfyingthe temporal constraint, there may be approximatevalues.
For example, the following answers (cffigure 6) are extracted for the question How manyinhabitants were there in France in 2004?
:(1) 61.7 millions: number of inhabitants in Francein 2004.
(2) In 2004, the French population is estimated to61 millions.
(3) There are 62 millions of inhabitants in Francein 2004.Each of these values is more or less approxi-mate.
The goal is then to identify which valuesare approximate and to decide which numericalvalue can be used for the generation task.For that purpose, we proposed to 20 subjects aset of question-answer pairs.
For each question,subjects were asked to choose one answer amonga set of precise and approximate values and toexplain why.
For the previous question, 75%of the subjects prefer answer (1) because it isthe most precise one, even if they consider it asan approximation.
In majority, subjects explainthat an approximate value is sufficient for greatnumbers and that values must not be rounded up(they proposed 61.7 millions or almost 62 millionsas an answer).
On the contrary, subjects do notaccept approximate values in the financial domain(price, salary, ...) but rather prefer an interval ofvalues.Thus, the direct answer is generated from themost precise numerical value if available.
If allvalues are approximate, then the generated answerhas to explain it: we plan to use prepositions ofapproximation (about, almost, ...) or linguisticsclues which have been extracted from web pages(precision in the frames).
The choice of a partic-ular preposition depends on the degree of preci-sion/approximation of numerical values: PrepNet(Saint-Dizier, 2005) provides a relatively deep de-scription of preposition syntactic and semantic be-haviours.4.2 Explanation generationObviously, the generation of the cooperative partof the answer is the most complex because it re-quires complex lexical knowledge.
We presentbriefly some of the necessary lexical resources.For example, verbs can be used in the answer toexpress numerical variations.
Lexical descriptionsare necessary and we use for that purpose a classi-fication of French verbs (Saint-Dizier, 1999) basedon the main classes defined by WordNet.
Theclasses we are interested in for our task are mainlythose of verbs of change (increase, decrease, etc.
:in total, 262 verbs in French) and of verbs ofmovement (climb, move forward/backward, etc.
:in total, 252 verbs in French) used metaphori-48 KRAQ06cally (Moriceau and Saint-Dizier, 2003).
Fromthese classes, we have characterized sub-classesof growth, decrease, etc., so that the lexicalisa-tion task is constrained by the type of verbs whichhas to be used according to the variation mode (ifverbs are extracted from web pages as linguisticsclues of variation, they can also be reused in theanswer).A deep semantics of verbs (change, movement)is necessary to generate an answer which takesinto account the characteristics of numerical vari-ation as well as possible: for example, the vari-ation mode but also the speed and range of thevariation.
Thus, for each sub-class of verbs andits associated variation mode, we need a refineddescription of ontological domains and selectionalrestrictions so that an appropriate verb lexicalisa-tion can be chosen: which verb can be applied toprices, to age, etc.?
We plan to use proportional se-ries representing verb sub-classes according to thespeed and amplitude of variation.
For example, theuse of climb (resp.
drop) indicates a faster growth(resp.
decrease) than go up (resp.
go down): theverb climb is prefered for the generation of Theincrease of gas prices climb to 20.3% in october2005 whereas go up is prefered in The increase ofgas prices go up to 7.2% in september 2005.As for direct answer generation, verbs can possi-bly be associated with a preposition that refinesthe information (The average age of marriage in-creased by about 5.5 years between 1972 and2005).5 ConclusionIn this paper, we presented an approach for thegeneration of cooperative numerical answers in aquestion-answering system.
Our method allows usto generate:(1) a correct synthetic answer over a whole setof data and,(2) a cooperative part which explains the varia-tion phenomenon to the user,whenever several numerical values are extractedas possible answers to a question.
Information isfirst extracted from web pages so that numericalvalues can be characterized: variation criteria andmode are then identified in order to generate ex-planation to the user.
Several future directionsare obviously considered:?
an analysis of needs for common knowledgeso that the answer characterization task ismade easier,?
an analysis of how restrictions are lexicalizedin texts (adjectives, relative clauses, etc.)
inorder to extract them easily,?
an evaluation of the knowledge costs and ofwhat domain specific is (especially for com-mon knowledge about restrictions),?
an evaluation of the quality of answers pro-posed to users and of the utility of a usermodel for the selection of the best answer.ReferencesV.
Dahl and H. Abramson.
1984.
On Gapping Gram-mars.
Proceedings of the Second Logic Program-ming Conference.S.
Harabagiu and F. Lacatusu.
2004.
Strategies forAdvanced Question Answering.
Proceedings of theWorkshop on Pragmatics of Question Answering atHLT-NAACL 2004.D.
Maurel and O. Piton.
1999.
Un dictionnairede noms propres pour Intex: les noms propresge?ographiques.
Lingvisticae Investigationes, XXII,pp.
277-287, John Benjamins B. V., Amsterdam.D.L.
McGuinness and P. Pinheiro da Silva.
2004.Trusting Answers on the Web.
New Directions inQuestion-Answering, chapter 22, Mark T. Maybury(ed), AAAI/MIT Press.D.
Moldovan, C. Clark, S. Harabagiu and S. Maiorano.2003.
COGEX: A Logic Prover for Question An-swering.
Proceedings of HLT-NAACL 2003.V.
Moriceau and P. Saint-Dizier.
2003.
A ConceptualTreatment of Metaphors for NLP.
Proceedings ofICON.V.
Moriceau.
2005.
Answer Generation with TemporalData Integration.
Proceedings of ENLG?05.D.R.
Radev and K.R.
McKeown.
1998.
Generat-ing Natural Language Summaries from Multiple On-Line Sources.
Computational Linguistics, vol.
24,issue 3 - Natural Language Generation, pp.
469 -500.P.
Saint-Dizier.
1999.
Alternations and Verb SemanticClasses for French.
Predicative Forms for NL andLKB, Kluwer Academic.P.
Saint-Dizier.
2005.
PrepNet: a Framework for De-scribing Prepositions: preliminary investigation re-sults.
Proccedings of IWCS?05.B.
Webber, C. Gardent and J. Bos.
2002.
Positionstatement: Inference in Question Answering.
Pro-ceedings of LREC.49 KRAQ06
