Proceedings of the Third ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 1?8,Trento, Italy, April 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsSpatial Prepositions in Context:The Semantics of near in the Presence of Distractor ObjectsFintan J. Costello,School of Computer Science and Informatics,University College Dublin,Dublin, Ireland.fintan.costello@ucd.ieJohn D. KelleherSchool of Computing,Dublin Institute of Technology,Dublin, Ireland.John.Kelleher@comp.dit.ieAbstractThe paper examines how people?s judge-ments of proximity between two objectsare influenced by the presence of a thirdobject.
In an experiment participants werepresented with images containing threeshapes in different relative positions, andasked to rate the acceptability of a loca-tive expression such as ?the circle is nearthe triangle?
as descriptions of those im-ages.
The results showed an interactionbetween the relative positions of objectsand the linguistic roles that those objectsplay in the locative expression: proximitywas a decreasing function of the distancebetween the head object in the expressionand the prepositional clause object, and anincreasing function the distance betweenthe head and the third, distractor object.This finding leads us to a new account forthe semantics of spatial prepositions suchas near.1 IntroductionIn this paper, we present an empirical study of thecognitive representations underpinning the uses ofproximal descriptions in locative spatial expres-sions.
A spatial locative expression consists of alocative prepositional phrase together with what-ever the phrase modifies (noun, clause, etc.).
Intheir simplest form, a locative expression consistsof a prepositional phrase modifying a noun phrase,for example the man near the desk.
People oftenuse spatial locatives to denote objects in a visualscene.
Understanding such references involves co-ordination between a perceptual event and a lin-guistic utterance.
Consequently, the study of spa-tial locatives affords the opportunity to examinesome aspects of the grounding of language in non-language.The conception of space underlying spatiallocatives is fundamentally relativistic: the locationof one object is specified relative to another whoselocation is usually assumed by the speaker to beknown by the hearer.
Moreover, underpinning thisrelativistic notion of space is the concept of prox-imity.
Consequently, the notion of proximity isan important concept at the core of human spatialcognition.
Proximal spatial relationships are oftendescribed using topological prepositions, e.g.
at,on, near, etc.Terminology In this paper we use the term tar-get (T) to refer to the head of a locative expression(the object which is being located by that expres-sion) and the term landmark (L) to refer to the ob-ject in the prepositional phrase in that expression(relative to which the head?s location is described),see Example (1).Example 1.
[The man]T near [the table]L.We will use the term distractor to describe anyobject in the visual context that is neither the land-mark nor the target.Contributions The paper reports on a psy-cholinguistic experiment that examines proximity.Previous psycholinguistic work on proximal rela-tions, (Logan and Sadler, 1996), has not exam-ined the effects other objects in the scene (i.e., dis-tractors) may have on the spatial relationship be-tween a landmark and a target.
The experimentdescribed in this paper compares peoples?
judge-ments of proximity between target and landmarkobjects when they are presented alone and whenthere are presented along with other distractor ob-jects.
Based on the results of this experiment we1propose a new model for the semantics of spatialprepositions such as near.Overview In ?2 we review previous work.
In?3 we describe the experiment.
In ?4 we presentthe results of the experiment and our analysis.
Thepaper finishes with conclusions, ?5.2 Related WorkIn this section we review previous psycholinguis-tic experiments that examined proximal spatial re-lations.
We then present example spatial contexts,that the previous experiments did not examine,which motivate the hypothesis tested in this paper:the location of other objects in a scene can inter-fere with the acceptability of a proximal descrip-tion being used to describe the spatial relationshipbetween a landmark and a target.1.74 1.90 2.84 3.16 2.34 1.81 2.132.61 3.84 4.66 4.97 4.90 3.56 3.264.06 5.56 7.55 7.97 7.29 4.80 3.913.47 4.81 6.94 7.56 7.31 5.59 3.634.47 5.91 8.52 O 7.90 6.13 4.463.25 4.03 4.50 4.78 4.41 3.47 3.101.84 2.23 2.03 3.06 2.53 2.13 2.00Figure 1: 7-by-7 cell grid with mean goodness rat-ings for the relation near as a function of the posi-tion occupied by X.Spatial reasoning is a complex activity that in-volves at least two levels of representation and rea-soning: a geometric level where metric, topologi-cal, and projective properties are handled, (Her-skovits, 1986); and a functional level where thenormal function of an entity affects the spatial re-lationships attributed to it in context (for example,the meaning of ?near?
for a bomb is quite differ-ent from the meaning of ?near?
for other objects ofthe same size; (Vandeloise, 1991; Coventry, 1998;Garrod et al, 1999)).There has been a lot of experimental workdone on spatial reasoning and language: (Carlson-Radvansky and Irwin, 1993; Carlson-Radvanskyand Irwin, 1994; Hayward and Tarr, 1995;Gapp, 1995; Logan and Sadler, 1996; Carlson-Radvansky and Logan, 1997; Coventry, 1998;Garrod et al, 1999; Regier and Carlson, 2001;Kelleher and Costello, 2005).
Of these only(Logan and Sadler, 1996) examined topologicalprepositions in a context where functional factorswere excluded.The term spatial template denotes the repre-sentation of the regions of acceptability associatedwith a preposition.
It is centred on the landmarkand identifies for each point in its space the accept-ability of the spatial relationship between the land-mark and the target appearing at that point beingdescribed by the preposition (Logan and Sadler,1996).The concept of a spatial template emerged frompsycholinguistic experiments reported in (Loganand Sadler, 1996).
These experiments examinedvarious spatial prepositions.
In these experiments,a human subject was shown sentences, each with apicture of a spatial configuration.
Every sentencewas of the form ?The X is [relation] the O?.
Theaccompanying picture contained anO in the centerof an invisible 7-by-7 cell grid, and an X in one ofthe 48 surrounding positions.
The subject then hadto rate howwell the sentence described the picture,on a scale from 1(bad) to 9(good).Figure 1 gives the mean goodness rating for therelation ?near to?
as a function of the position oc-cupied by the X, as reported in (Logan and Sadler,1996).
If we plot the mean goodness rating for?near?
against the distance between target X andlandmark O, we get the graph in Figure 2.Figure 2: Mean goodness rating vs. distance be-tween X and O.Both the figure and the graph make it clear thatthe ratings diminish as we increase the distancebetween X and O.
At the same time, we can ob-serve that even at the extremes of the grid the rat-ings were still above 1 (the minimum rating).
In-2deed, in the four corners of the grid, the pointsmost distant from the landmark, the mean ratingsnearly average twice the minimum rating.However in certain contexts other factors, apartfrom the distance between the landmark and thetarget, affect the applicability of a proximal rela-tion as a description of the target?s position rela-tive to the landmark.
For example, consider thetwo scenes (side-view) given in Figure 3.
In thescene on the left-hand side, we can use the de-scription ?the blue box is near the black box?
todescribe object (a).
However, consider now thescene on the right-hand side.
In this context, thedescription ?the blue box is near the black box?seems inappropriate as an expression describing(a).
The placing of object (c) beside (b) wouldappear to interfere with the appropriateness of us-ing a proximal relation to locate (a) relative to (b),even though the absolute distance between (a) and(b) has not changed.Figure 3: Proximity and distanceIn summary, there is empirical evidence that in-dicates that as the distance between the landmarkand the target increases the applicability of a prox-imal description decreases.
Furthermore, there isanecdotal evidence that the location of other dis-tractor objects in context may interfere with appli-cability of a proximal description between a targetand landmark object.
The experiment presented inthis paper is designed to empirically test the affectof distractor objects on proximity judgements.3 ExperimentThis work examines the impact of distractor ob-jects on subjects?
judgment of proximity betweenthe target and the landmark objects.
To do this, weexamine the changes in participants judgements ofthe appropriateness of the topological prepositionnear being used to describe a spatial configurationof the target and landmark objects when a distrac-tor object was present and when it was removed.Topological prepositions (e.g., at, on, in, near)are often used to describe proximal spatial rela-tionships.
However, the semantics of a given topo-logical preposition also reflects functional (Garrodet al, 1999), directional (Logan and Sadler, 1996)and topological factors.1 Consequently, it was im-portant to control for these factors during the de-sign of the experiment.Functional factors were controlled for by us-ing simple shapes in the stimuli.
The prepositionnear was used to control the impact of directionalfactors.
Previous psycholinguistic work indicatedthat near was not affected by any directional pref-erences.
Finally, the influence of topological fac-tors was controlled for by ensuring that the land-mark and target maintained a consistent topolog-ical relationship (the objects never touched, over-lapped or were contained in other objects).We approached our experiment with expecta-tion that people?s proximity judgments between atarget and a landmark will be a decreasing func-tion of the distance between those two objects: thesmaller the distance between a landmark and a tar-get object, the higher the proximity rating peoplewill give for those two objects.
We expect that thepresence of a distractor object will also influenceproximity judgments, and examine two differenthypotheses about how that influence will work: atarget-centered hypothesis and landmark-centeredhypothesis.
In the target-centered hypothesis, peo-ple?s judgments of proximity between a target anda landmark will be a decreasing function of dis-tance between those two objects, but an increas-ing function of distance between the target andthe distractor object.
Under this hypothesis, ifthe distractor object is near the target object, thiswill interfere with and lower people?s judgmentsof proximity between the target and the landmark.In the landmark-centered hypothesis, by contrast,people?s judgments of proximity between a tar-get and a landmark will be a decreasing functionof distance between those objects, but an increas-ing function of distance between the landmark andthe distractor object.
Under this hypothesis, ifthe distractor object is near the landmark, it willinterfere with and lower people?s judgments ofproximity between target and landmark.
We testthese hypotheses by varying target-distractor dis-tance in our materials, but maintaining landmark-distractor distance constant.
If the target-centeredhypothesis is correct, then people?s judgments ofproximity should vary with target-distractor dis-tance.
If the landmark-centered hypothesis is cor-rect, target-distractor distance should not influence1See (Cohn et al, 1997) for a description different topo-logical relationships.3people?s judgments of proximity.3.1 Material and SubjectsAll images used in this experiment contained acentral landmark and a target.
In most of the im-ages there was also another object, which we willrefer to as the distractor.
All of these objects werecoloured shapes, a circle, triangle or square.
How-ever, none of the images contained two objects thatwere the same shape or the same colour.1 24 5 a6g L cebd f3Figure 4: Relative locations of landmark (L) tar-get positions (1..6) and distractor positions (a..g)in images used in the experiment.The landmark was always placed in the mid-dle of a seven by seven grid (row four, columnfour).
There were 48 images in total, divided into8 groups of 6 images each.
Each image in a groupcontained the target object placed in one of 6 dif-ferent cells on the grid, numbered from 1 to 6 (seeFigure 4).
As Figure 4 shows, we number thesetarget positions according to their nearness to thelandmark.Each group, then, contains images with targetsat positions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6.
Groups are organ-ised according to the presence and position of adistractor object.
Figure 4 shows the 7 differentpositions used for the distractor object, labelleda,b,c,d,e,f and g. In each of these positions thedistractor is equidistant from the landmark.
Ingroup a the distractor is directly above the land-mark, in group b the distractor is rotated 45 de-grees clockwise from the vertical, in group c it isdirectly to the right of the landmark, in d is rotated135 degrees clockwise from the vertical, and soon.
Notice that some of these distractor positions(b,d, and f ) are not aligned with the grid.
This re-alignment is necessary to ensure that the distractorobject is always the same distance from the land-mark.
Each of these groups of images used in theexperiment corresponds to one of these 7 distrac-tor positions, with a distractor object occurring atthat position for every image in that group.
In ad-dition, there is an eight group (which we label asgroup x), in which no distractor object occurs.Previous studies of how people judge proxim-ity have typically examined judgments where thetarget is above, below, to the left or right of thelandmark.
The results of these studies showedthat these distinctions are relatively unimportant,and the gradient of proximity observed tends to besymmetrical around the landmark.
For this reason,in our study we ignore these factors and presentlandmark, target and distractor randomly rotated(so that some participants in our experiment willsee the image with target at position 1 and distrac-tor at position a in a rotated form where position 1is below the landmark and position a is to the rightof the landmark, but others will see the same rela-tive positions at different rotations).
In each imageall objects present were placed exactly at the cen-ter of the cell representing their position.During the experiment, each image was dis-played with a sentence of the form The is nearthe .
The blanks were filled with a descrip-tion of the target and landmark respectively.
Thesentence was presented under the image.
12 par-ticipants took part in this experiment.3.2 ProcedureThere were 48 trials, constructed from the follow-ing variables: 8 distractor conditions * 6 target po-sitions.
To avoid sequence effects the landmark,target and distractor colour and shape were ran-domly modified for each trial and the distractorcondition and target location were randomly se-lected for each trial.
Each trial was randomly re-flected across the horizontal, vertical, or diagonalaxes.
Trials were presented in a different randomorder to each participant.Participants were instructed that they would beshown sentence-picture pairs and were be asked torate the acceptability of the sentence as a descrip-tion of the picture using a 10-point scale, with zerodenoting not acceptable at all; four or five denot-ing moderately acceptable; and nine perfectly ac-4Figure 5: Experiment instructions.ceptable.
Figure 5 presents the instructions givento each participant before the experiment.
Trialswere self-paced, and the experiments lasted about25-30 minutes.
Figure 6 illustrates how the trialswere presented.4 Results and DiscussionThere are two questions we want to ask in our ex-amination of people?s proximity judgments in thepresence of distractor objects.
First, does the pres-ence of a distractor make any noticable differencein people?s judgements of proximity?
Second, ifthe presence of a distractor does influence prox-imity judgements, is this influence target-centered(based on the distance between the target objectand the distractor) or landmark-centered (based onthe distance between the landmark and the distrac-tor).We address the first question (does the distractorobject have an influence on proximity judgments)by comparing the results obtained for images ingroup x (in which there was no distractor) with re-Figure 6: Sample trial from the experiment.sults obtained from other groups.
In particular, wecompare the results from this group with those ob-tained from groups c, d and e: the three groups inwhich the distractor object is furthest from the setof target positions used (as Figure 4 shows, dis-tractor positions c, d, and e are all on the oppositeside of the landmark from the set of target posi-tions).
We focus on comparison with groups c, d,and e because results for the other groups are com-plicated by the fact that people?s proximity judg-ments are influenced by the closeness of a distrac-tor object to the target (as we will see later).01234567891 2 3 4 5 6target locationproximityrating group xgroup cgroup dgroup eFigure 7: mean proximity rating for target loca-tions for group x (no distractor) and groups c, d,and e (distractors present behind landmark)Figure 7 shows the average proximity ratinggiven by participants for the 6 targets 1 to 6 forgroup x (in which there was no distractor object)and for groups c, d, and e (in which distractors oc-curred on the opposite side of the landmark fromthe target).
Clearly, all three sets of distractor re-sponses are very similar to each other, and areall noticably different from the no-distractor re-sponse.
This difference was shown to be statis-tically significant in a by-subjects analysis com-paring subjects?
responses for groups c,d and ewith their responses for group x.
This compar-ison showed that subjects produced significantlylower proximity ratings for group c than group x(Wilcoxon signed-rank test W+ = 55.50,W?
=10.50, N = 11, p <= 0.05), lower ratings forgroup d than group x (W+ = 48.50,W?
=6.50, N = 11, p <= 0.05) and lower ratingsfor group e than group x (W+ = 51.50,W?
=3.50, N = 11, p <= 0.01).
(We exclude onesubject from this analysis because they mistakenlygave the lowest possible proximity rating of 0 tothe item closest to the landmark in group x).5Figure 8: comparison between normalised proximity scores observed and computed for each group.These results show that the presence of a dis-tractor object reliably influences people?s proxim-ity judgements.
But how does this influence op-erate?
We examine this by comparing our exper-imental results with those expected by the target-centered and the landmark-centered hypotheses.We can formalise the landmark-centered hy-pothesis about proximity judgements as follows.Let T be the target whose proximity to the land-mark we?re trying to judge, let L and D be thelandmark and distractor objects respectively, andlet dist(A,B) be the computed distance between6two objects.
Then under the landmark-centeredhypothsis, the relationship between proximity anddistance-to-landmark in our experiment should beas in Equation 1:prox(T,L) ?= ?dist(T,L) + dist(L,D) (1)Equation 1 states that the judged proximity of atarget to a landmark rises as the target?s distancefrom the landmark falls (the closer the target is tothe landmark, the higher its proximity score forthe landmark will be), but falls as the distance be-tween the landmark and the distractor falls (thecloser the distractor is to the landmark, the lowerthe proximity score for the target will be).
Re-call, however, that in the design of our materials,the distance from landmark to distractor was keptconstant.
When applied to our materials, there-fore, Equation 1 reduces toprox(T,L) ?= ?dist(T,L) (2)Equation 2 gives a good fit to people?s proxim-ity judgments for targets in our experiment.
Forgroup x (the set of images for which there was nodistractor object, just a target and the landmark),the correlation between?dist(T,D) and people?saverage proximity scores for target T was high(r = 0.95).
The first graph in Figure 8 illustratesthis correlation, comparing the average proximityvalue given by participants for each target in groupx with the computed proximity value for each tar-get in that group from Equation 2.We next compare our experimental data withthe results expected by the target-centered hypoth-esis for proximity judgments.
Under this hypothe-sis, the judged proximity of a target to a landmarkrises as the target?s distance from the landmark de-creases (the closer the target is to the landmark, thehigher its proximity score for the landmark willbe), but falls as the target?s distance from the dis-tractor decreases (the closer the target is to the dis-tractor, the lower its proximity score for the land-mark will be).
This relationship can be formalisedas in Equation 3:prox(T,L) ?= ?dist(T,L) + dist(T,D) (3)Equation 3 states that if a target object is closeto the landmark and far from the distractor it willhave a high proximity score for that landmark.However, if it is close to the landmark and closeto the distractor, its proximity score will be lower.The remaining seven graphs in Figure 8 as-sess this account by comparing the average prox-imity value given by participants for each targetin the distractor groups a to g with the proxim-ity value for each target in that group computedfrom Equation 2 (the landmark-centered equation)and with the proximity value for each target com-puted from Equation 3 (the target-centered equa-tion).
As these graphs show, for each group theproximity value computed from Equation 2 givesa fair match to people?s proximity judgements fortarget objects (the average correlation across theseven groups is around r = 0.93).
However, thedistance-to-distractor term in the computation ofproximity in Equation 3 significantly improves thecorrelation in each graph, giving an average corre-lation across the seven groups of around r = 0.99.We conclude that participants?
proximity judge-ments for objects in our experiment are best rep-resented by the model described in Equation 3, inwhich the proximity of a target to a landmark is adecreasing function of the target?s distance fromthat landmark and an increasing function of thetarget?s distance from distractor objects.Note that, in order to clearly display the rela-tionship between proximity values given by par-ticipants for target objects, proximity computedin Equation 2 (using target-to-landmark distanceonly), and proximity computed in Equation 3 (us-ing target-to-landmark and target-to-distractor dis-tances) the values displayed in Figure 8 are nor-malised so that, across all groups and targets,the average proximity values given by participantshave a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1,as do the proximity values computed in Equation2 and those computed in Equation 3.
This nor-malisation simply means that all values fall in thesame region of the scale, and can be easily com-pared visually.
This normalisation has no effecton the correlations obtained between the observedand computed proximity values.5 ConclusionsThis paper described a psycholinguistic experi-ment that investigated the cognitive representa-tions underpinning spatial descriptions of proxim-ity.
The results showed that peoples?
proximityjudgments for objects in the presence of distrac-tors can be modelled in a straightforward way us-7ing the relation described in Equation 3, in whichproximity falls with the target?s distance from thelandmark, but rises with the target?s distance froma distractor object.
This means that if a target ob-ject is close to the landmark and far from the dis-tractor it will have a high proximity rating for thatlandmark.
However, if it is close to the landmarkbut also close to the distractor, its proximity ratingwill fall.
These results suggest that the linguis-tic roles that objects play in a locative expressionhave an influence on people?s judgments of prox-imity: proximity was a decreasing function of thedistance between the object in the head position inthe expression (the target) and that in the preposi-tional clause position (the landmark), and an in-creasing function the distance between the headand the third, distractor object.
This finding ex-tends previous results on peoples?
judgments ofproximity for objects.It?s noticable, however, that the match to peo-ple?s responses obtained by Equation 3 for itemsin group a is less good than that obtained in anyof the other groups.
Of all the distractors, distrac-tor a was closer to the target object than any otherdistractor.
It may be that there is some other prox-imity or occlusion effect acting in people?s judge-ments of proximity for items in group a. Futurework will be necessary to clarify this point.ReferencesL.A.
Carlson-Radvansky and D. Irwin.
1993.
Frames of ref-erence in vision and language: Where is above?
Cogni-tion, 46:223?224.L.A.
Carlson-Radvansky and D. Irwin.
1994.
Referenceframe activation during spatial term assignment.
Journalof Memory and Language, 33:646?671.L.A.
Carlson-Radvansky and G.D. Logan.
1997.
The influ-ence of reference frame selection on spatial template con-struction.
Journal of Memory and Language, 37:411?437.A GCohn, B Bennett, J MGooday, and NGotts.
1997.
RCC:a calculus for region based qualitative spatial reasoning.GeoInformatica, 1:275?316.K.R.
Coventry.
1998.
Spatial prepositions, functional re-lations, and lexical specification.
In P. Olivier and K.P.Gapp, editors, Representation and Processing of SpatialExpressions, pages 247?262.
Lawrence Erlbaum Asso-ciates.K.P.
Gapp.
1995.
An empirically validated model for com-puting spatial relations.
In KI - Kunstliche Intelligenz,pages 245?256.S.
Garrod, G. Ferrier, and S. Campbell.
1999.
In and on:investigating the functional geometry of spatial preposi-tions.
Cognition, 72:167?189.W.G.
Hayward and M.J. Tarr.
1995.
Spatial language andspatial representation.
Cognition, 55:39?84.A Herskovits.
1986.
Language and spatial cognition: Aninterdisciplinary study of prepositions in English.
Stud-ies in Natural Language Processing.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press.J.
Kelleher and F. Costello.
2005.
Cognitive representationsof projective prepositions.
In Proceedings of the SecondACL-Sigsem Workshop of The Linguistic Dimensions ofPrepositions and their Use in Computational LinguisticFormalisms and Applications.G.D.
Logan and D.D.
Sadler.
1996.
A computational analy-sis of the apprehension of spatial relations.
In M. Bloom,P.and Peterson, L. Nadell, and M. Garrett, editors, Lan-guage and Space, pages 493?529.
MIT Press.T Regier and L. Carlson.
2001.
Grounding spatial languagein perception: An empirical and computational investi-gation.
Journal of Experimental Psychology: General,130(2):273?298.C.
Vandeloise.
1991.
Spatial Prepositions: A Case StudyFrom French.
The University of Chicago Press.8
