Proceedings of the Fourth International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 114?121,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsGeneration of Biomedical Arguments for Lay ReadersNancy GreenDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of North Carolina GreensboroGreensboro, North Carolina 27402-6170 USAnlgreen at uncg.eduAbstractThis paper presents the design of a discoursegenerator that plans the content and organi-zation of lay-oriented genetic counselingdocuments containing arguments, and anexperiment to evaluate the arguments.
Dueto the separation of domain, argument, andgenre-specific concerns and the methodol-ogy used for acquiring a domain model, thisapproach should be applicable to argumentgeneration in other domains.1 IntroductionThe goal of our research is to develop methods bywhich intelligent systems can help lay audiences tounderstand biomedical and other kinds of scientificarguments.
We have been studying how one typeof lay-communication and biomedical-domain ex-pert, the genetic counselor, presents written argu-ments in patient letters, standard documentssummarizing information and services provided tothe client (Baker et al, 2002).
Clinical geneticsinvolves causal probabilistic reasoning, e.g., diag-nosis of a genetic basis for a health problem orprediction of inheritance risks.
The patient letter isdesigned to document the experts?
reasoning formedical and legal purposes, as well as to providean explanation that a lay client can understand.This paper presents, for the first time, the designof a discourse generator that plans the content andorganization of genetic counseling patient letterscontaining arguments; and an experiment that weperformed to evaluate the arguments.
The dis-course generation process involves three modules:a qualitative causal probabilistic domain model, anormative argument generator, and a genre-specific discourse grammar.
In (Green, 2005), wereported a corpus study that produced a reliablebiomedical coding scheme.
In subsequent work-shop papers (Green et al, 2004; 2005), we intro-duced our use of qualitative probabilisticconstraints and provided a brief description of thebiomedical domain model.
We have also providedinformal descriptions of argument patterns in thecorpus (Green, to appear; 2006).
However, wehave not previously published the design of thediscourse generator, including the discoursegrammar and argument generator, and their rela-tionship to the domain model.The theoretical significance of this work isthree-fold.
First, it is empirically based, i.e., basedon analysis of arguments in a corpus of geneticcounseling patient letters, since the goal is to pro-duce the same kinds of normative arguments as areused in expert-lay communication.
Second, thenormative argument generator creates an inten-tional-level representation of the arguments in thetext, which provides a foundation for an intelligentsystem?s ability to engage in follow-up discussionabout the arguments that have been presented.
Fi-nally, due to the separation of domain, argument,and genre-specific concerns in the design, and dueto the methodology used to acquire a domainmodel, it should be possible to apply this approachto lay-oriented argument generation in other do-mains.
The practical significance of this work isthat it is major step in the design of a deployablesystem to generate the first draft of genetic coun-seling patient letters.
As genetics plays an increas-ingly important role in medicine, there is a need fortools to aid in dissemination of patient-tailored in-formation.114In the next section, we give an overview of aprototype generation system, whose main compo-nents are described in more detail in sections 3-5;an example of the generation process is given insection 6; an experiment to evaluate the generatedarguments is presented in section 7; and relatedwork is summarized in section 8.2 System OverviewWe are developing a prototype system for geneticcounselors that will synthesize the first draft of apatient letter.
The deployed system will consist ofa graphical user interface for the genetic counselor,a domain model/reasoner, an argument generator, adiscourse grammar, and a linguistic realizer.
Proto-types of all components except the linguistic real-izer have been implemented.
Although this paperfocuses on discourse generation and its relationshipto the domain model, as background we now de-scribe the flow of information through the system.The domain model (section 3) is initialized withgeneric information on clinical genetics.
Through auser interface providing menus and other non-free-text input devices, the counselor will provide stan-dard clinical information such as a patient?s symp-toms and information about his family tree; testresults; preliminary diagnosis (before testing); andfinal diagnosis (after test results are known).
Thesystem uses this information to transform its ge-neric domain model into a specialized domainmodel of the patient and his family.In this genre, a patient letter must provide notonly the above information, but arguments for thediagnosis and other inferences made by the medi-cal experts.
The discourse generation processworks as follows.
A discourse grammar (section 4)encodes the high-level topic structure of letters inthis genre.
The discourse grammar rules generate aderivation instantiated from the domain model withinformation specific to a patient?s case.
For each ofthe writer?s claims about the case for which a nor-mative  argument must be provided according tostandard practice, the discourse grammar invokesthe argument generator.The argument generator (section 5) uses non-domain-specific argument strategies that are in-stantiated with information from the domainmodel.
The argument generator returns a structuredrepresentation of an argument in which the com-municative function of information, e.g., as data orwarrant, is identified.
As illustrated in section 6, infuture interactive systems  knowledge of commu-nicative function could be used to support follow-up discussion.
In the current prototype, this knowl-edge is used to determine presentation order, e.g.,that data supporting a claim is to be presented be-fore that claim.
One of the goals of the experimentdescribed in section 7 was to evaluate this order-ing.
In the final system, the output of discoursegeneration will be transformed by a linguistic real-izer into the first draft of a letter.3     Domain ModelIn a previous study of the corpus (Green, 2005),we identified a small set of categories (e.g.
geno-type, test result, symptom) with good inter-raterreliability that can be used to describe the biomedi-cal content of a genetic counseling letter as acausal probabilistic network (Korb and Nicholson,2004).
A prototype domain model has been manu-ally constructed covering representative geneticdisorders using only these categories of variables.By restricting a domain model to these categories,the result should reflect the simplified conceptualmodel of genetics used by genetic counselors incommunication with their lay clients; this facili-tates generation since the generator will not have todistinguish what information in the domain modelis appropriate to communicate to a lay audience.Another benefit of restricting a domain model inthis way is that it reduces the knowledge acquisi-tion effort of choosing variables and determiningnetwork topology; any genetic disorder in thescope of the coding scheme (over 4500 single-geneautosomal disorders) would be modeled in terms ofa small number of variable types and a standardtopology.
Thus, it should be straightforward tosemi-automatically construct a domain model cov-ering many different genetic disorders.Figure 1 shows part of a domain model after ithas been updated with information about a particu-lar patient?s case.
The nodes labeled GJB2(mother), GJB2 (father), GJB2 (child) are geno-type variables, representing the mother?s, father?s,and child?s GBJ2 genotype, respectively.
(A geno-type is a pair of alleles of a gene; one allele is in-herited from each parent.
An individual who hastwo mutated alleles of the GJB2 gene usually ex-periences hearing loss.)
The nodes labeled hearingloss (child) and non-syndromic (child) are vari-115ables representing the child?s symptoms.
The nodelabeled test result (child) is a variable representingthe results of testing the child?s GJB2 genotype.The most likely states of the variables areshown beside the nodes in Figure 1; T1 and T2 rep-resent the time at which the (experts?)
belief isheld, before or after the child?s genetic test resultsare known, respectively.
The information recordedin the network about this particular case is that thechild was observed to have hearing loss and nofeatures of a genetic syndrome; the preliminarydiagnosis, i.e.
before testing, was that the cause ofhearing loss is having two mutated alleles of GJB2;the test results were negative, however; thus, thecurrent diagnosis is some other (unspecified) auto-somal recessively inherited genetic condition, rep-resented by the genotype variable labeled othergenotype (child).
In addition, the parents are hy-pothesized to be carriers (i.e.
to each have one mu-tated allele) of that genotype, represented by thevariables labeled other genotype (mother), othergenotype (father).Although a causal probabilistic network used toperform diagnosis or risk calculation would requirespecification of numeric probabilities, the role ofthe network in our system is to qualitatively modelthe reasoning that the medical experts have per-formed outside of the system.
Also, we found thatin the corpus numeric probabilities were providedonly when citing epidemiological statistics or riskscalculated according to Mendelian inheritance the-ory (which does not require Bayesian probabilitycomputation).
Thus, instead of using numericprobabilities for domain reasoning, the domainmodel uses qualitative constraints based upon for-mal relations of qualitative influence, product syn-ergy, and additive synergy (Druzdzel and Henrion,1993).In addition to being adequate for natural lan-guage generation, this approach greatly reducesknowledge acquisition effort; it should be straight-forward to semi-automatically acquire the qualita-tive constraints of a full-scale domain model due toregularities in this domain and the use of a re-stricted set of variable types as described above.For example, qualitative constraints between geno-types of parents and child would be determined bywhether a genotype follows an autosomal domi-nant or recessive inheritance pattern.We now describe some of the qualitative do-main constraints.
An influence relation holds be-tween a node in a causal graph and its directdescendant.
A has a positive qualitative influenceon B, written S+(state(A,VA), state(B,VB)), if thestate of A reaching a threshold value VA makes itmore likely that the state of B reaches value VB.For example, if having two mutated alleles of agenotype A normally results in the appearance of asymptom B, this could be described asS+(state(A,2), state(B,yes)).
Each arc in Figure 1implicitly represents an S+ relation.Product and additive synergy describe converg-ing connections, i.e., the relation between a set ofvariables {A, B} and their direct descendant C in agraph.
A and B have negative product synergywith respect to state VC of C, writtenX-({state(A,VA), state(B,VB)}, state(C,VC)), ifeither the state of A reaching a threshold VA or thestate of B reaching a threshold VB makes it morelikely that the state of C reaches VC.
This type ofrelationship characterizes mutually exclusive alter-native diagnoses that could account for the samesymptom; it also characterizes autosomal dominantinheritance, an inheritance pattern where inheritingone mutated allele of a genotype (from either par-ent) is usually sufficient to cause health problems.In Figure 1, the possible alternative causes of thesymptoms are indicated by the X- annotations.On the other hand, autosomal recessive inheri-tance, an inheritance pattern where inheriting twomutated alleles (one from each parent) is usuallynecessary to cause health problems, is character-ized by zero product synergy (X0); A and B havezero product synergy with respect to state VC of C,X0({state(A,VA), state(B,VB)}, state(C,VC)), if thestate of A reaching a threshold VA and the state ofB reaching a threshold VB makes it more likely thatthe state of C reaches VC.
For example, if themother?s, father?s, and child?s genotype are repre-sented by variables A, B, and C, respectively, thenX0({state(A,1), state(B,1)}, state(C,2)) can repre-sent the constraint that if the child?s genotype Chas two mutated alleles, then one mutated allelemust have come from each parent.
In Figure 1, theautosomal recessive inheritance pattern of GJB2and the other hypothesized genetic disorder areindicated by the X0 annotations.Other qualitative constraints used in the domainmodel are based on negative qualitative influence(S-), positive product synergy (X+), and negativeadditive synergy (Y-).
In addition, the domainmodel stores epidemiological statistics as probabil-116ity statements composed of variables used in thenetwork, e.g., the frequency of hearing loss due toGJB2.
This type of information can be used asbacking in an argument (see section 5) but does notplay a role in domain reasoning.4 Discourse GrammarA discourse grammar was written based upon ouranalysis of the corpus and a description of standardpractice in genetic counseling (Baker et al, 2002).The current grammar is intended to cover letters onsingle-factor autosomal genetic disorders.
Thanksto the regularities in this domain and in this genre,the grammar consists of a small number of rules.The starting rule of the grammar represents themain sections of a letter in their standard order:opening, referral, preliminary diagnosis, testing,final diagnosis, origin of genetic condition, inheri-tance implications, prognosis/treatment, and clos-ing.
One or more grammar rules describe each ofthese sections.Grammar rules may request the domain rea-soner for case-specific information to be includedin the letter.
In addition, when the grammar pro-vides a choice of rules, rule selection is based uponcase-specific information provided by the domainreasoner.
For example, one rule for reporting thefinal diagnosis handles cases in which the patient?stest results confirm the preliminary diagnosis, andanother rule those cases where the preliminary di-agnosis has been disconfirmed by test results; thedomain reasoner returns the information needed tochoose between those two rules.The process described so far creates an initialoutline of the information to be presented (in non-linguistic form), including various claims requiringan argument.
Each of those claims is passed to theargument generator described in the next section.For example, the letter shown in Figure 2 containsseven claims labeled C1 to C7; argument generationadds information labeled D1 to D7, W1 to W7, andB1 to B4.
The information returned by the argumentgenerator is added to the outline, completing thestructure that will be transformed by the linguisticrealizer into text.5 Argument GenerationGiven a claim, the argument generator uses argu-ment strategies to construct a normative argumentfor the claim from information provided by thedomain reasoner.
The strategies are non-domain-specific in the sense that they refer to formal prop-erties of the qualitative causal probabilistic domainmodel rather than to genetics.According to Toulmin?s model of normativeargument structure (1998), an argument for a claimcan be analyzed in terms of various functionalcomponents: the data, warrant, and backing.
Thedata are the facts used to defend a claim.
The war-rant is a principle that licenses the claim given thedata.
An optional backing may be used to justifythe warrant, e.g., by giving the facts upon whichthe warrant is based.
To derive the argumentstrategies used in the system, we analyzed the ar-guments in the corpus in terms of Toulmin?smodel; the resulting strategies describe mappingsfrom formal properties of the domain model to thedata and warrant supporting a claim and to thebacking of a warrant.
Several strategies are para-phrased below for illustration.Strategy 1.
Argument for belief in causal claim,based on effects: An argument for the claim that itis believed to some extent at time Ti thatstate(A,VA) holds and that state(A,VA) is responsi-ble for the states of variables B1..Bi, i.e.,state(B1,VB1) .. state(Bi,VBi), consists of the (pre-supposed) data that state(B1,VB1) .. state(Bi,VBi)hold, and optionally other data that state(Bj,VBj) ..state(Bk,VBk) hold, where the warrant is a positiveinfluence relation S+(state(A,VA), state(Bp,VBp))for each Bp in   { B1 .. Bi , Bj .. Bk}.Strategy 2.
Argument for decrease in belief tounlikely that state of causal variable is at or overthreshold value, based on absence of predictedeffect: An argument for the claim that there hasbeen a decrease in belief, from time T1 to T2, to thebelief at T2 that it is unlikely that state(A,VA)holds, consists of the (newly acquired) data that itis unlikely that state(C,VCi) holds for all VCi$VC,where the warrant is a positive influence relationS+(state(A,VA), state(C,VC)).Strategy 3.
Argument for increase in belief incausal claim, based on decrease in belief in alter-native cause: An argument for the claim that therehas been a increase in belief, from time T1 to T2, tothe belief at T2 that it is believed to some extentthat state(A,VA) holds and that state(A,VA) is re-sponsible for the states of variables state(B1,VB1) ..state(Bi,VBi), consists of the (presupposed) datathat state(B1,VB1) .. state(Bi,VBi) hold, and the117(newly acquired) data that it is unlikely thatstate(Alt,VAlt) holds for all VAlt$Vthreshold, where thewarrant is a negative product synergy relationX-({state(A,VA),state(Alt,Vthreshold)},state(B,VB))for each B in {B1 .. Bi}.Strategy 4.
Argument for belief in joint respon-sibility, based on effect.
An argument for the claimthat it is believed to some extent at time Ti thatstate(A,VA) and state(B,VB) hold and thatstate(A,VA) and state(B,VB) are jointly responsiblefor state(C,VC), consists of the (presupposed) datathat state(C,VC) holds, where the warrant is a zeroproduct synergy relation X0({state(A,VA),state(B,VB)}, state(C,VC)).6 ExampleThis section gives an example of discourse genera-tion for the case in section 3.
An outline created byapplication of the discourse grammar to the do-main model in Figure 1 would contain, in additionto basic information about the case not requiring anargument, several claims requiring further supportto be provided by the argument generator.First, the claim that it was believed, before test-ing, that the child?s hearing loss could be due tohaving two mutated alleles of GJB2 would be sup-ported by an argument constructed using Strategy1.
The data of the argument is the presuppositionthat the child has hearing loss and the additionalfinding that she has no syndromic features.
Thewarrant is the positive influence relations (S+) link-ing the variable representing the child?s GJB2genotype to each of the two variables representingthe child?s symptoms.
Note that if a reader ques-tioned this argument, an interactive system couldprovide information on the source of the data orepidemiological statistics backing the warrant.Second, the claim that it is currently believed,after testing, that it is unlikely that the child?sGJB2 genotype has two mutated alleles would besupported by an argument constructed using Strat-egy 2.
The data of the argument is that the child?sGJB2 test results were negative.
The warrant is thepositive influence relation (S+) from the child?sGJB2 genotype to the child?s GJB2 test results,which predicts that if the child had this mutation,then the test results would have been positive.
If areader questioned this argument, an interactive sys-tem could provide information on the source of thedata or back the warrant by providing informationabout the rate of false negatives.Third, the claim that it is currently believed,after testing, that it is possible that the child hassome other genetic condition that is responsible forher hearing loss would be supported by an argu-ment constructed using Strategy 3.
The data of theargument is that she has hearing loss and the cur-rent belief that GJB2 is not likely responsible.
Thewarrant is the negative product synergy relation(X-) between the child?s GJB2 genotype and an-other genotype to hearing loss.
If a reader ques-tioned this argument, an interactive system couldprovide information on the proportion of cases ofhearing loss that are due to other genetic conditionsas backing for the warrant.Fourth, the claim that it is currently believed,after testing, that it is possible that the parents arecarriers (i.e., each has one mutated allele) of theunspecified genotype claimed to be responsible forthe child?s hearing loss would be supported by anargument constructed using Strategy 4.
The data ofthe argument is the presupposition that the childhas two mutated alleles of the other genotype.
Thewarrant is the zero product synergy relation (X0)between the two parents?
genotype for this alterna-tive to GJB2 and the child?s genotype for this samealternative.
If a reader questioned this argument, aninteractive system could provide an explanation ofthe warrant, which is based on the theory of Men-delian inheritance; or it could provide the argumentfor the data, i.e., the belief that the child has twomutated alleles of the other genotype.Finally, the claim that it is currently believed,after testing, that assuming they are both carriersthere is a 25% probability that each future childthat the two parents have together will inherit twomutated alleles of the other genotype would besupported by an argument constructed by a strat-egy not shown in section 5.
The data is the as-sumption that the parents are both carriers, and thewarrant is the same zero product synergy relation(X0) used in the argument for the fourth claim.
If areader questioned this argument, an interactive sys-tem could provide an explanation of how the prob-abilities are determined by zero product synergy.7 ExperimentArgument generation was evaluated in the follow-ing experiment.
Five biology graduate students,118screened beforehand for writing ability in biology,were shown two patient letters.
The letters werecreated by the experimenter by paraphrasing theoutput of discourse generation that would be inputto the realizer.
The paraphrases are similar in syn-tax and lexical style to letters in  the corpus, but thegenetic disorders covered in the experiment?s let-ters differ from those covered in the corpus.
Oneletter concerns a child confirmed to have cysticfibrosis (CF); the other a child whose test resultsfor Waardenburg syndrome (WS) were negative.The text of letter CF is given in Figure 2.
The firstcolumn contains annotations describing the com-municative function of the information: C forclaim, D for data, W for warrant, and B for back-ing.
Each label is subscripted with an integer refer-ring to the argument.
(The row labeled C2/D3functions as both the claim of argument 2 and thedata of argument 3.)
Annotations were not shownto the experiment?s participants.
Communicativefunction was used to determine presentation orderwithin each argument.
Letters CF and WS had 23and 25 segments, respectively, where a segment isdefined as a unit fulfilling one of the above func-tions, or a non-argument-related function.The goal of the experiment was to conduct apreliminary evaluation of the acceptability of thearguments in terms of content, explicitness, andpresentation order within arguments.
The partici-pants were asked to revise each letter as needed tomake it more appropriate for its intended recipi-ents, the biological parents of a patient.
Partici-pants were told they could reword, reorder, andmake deletions and additions to a letter.
The resultsare summarized in Table 1, which includes the av-erage number of segments to/from which informa-tion was added (New) or deleted (Delete), andreordered (Reorder).
(Rewordings are not tabulatedsince it was not our goal to evaluate wording.
)New and Delete are measures of acceptability ofargument content and explicitness.
Reorder is ameasure of acceptability of ordering.
On average,the number of New, Delete, and Reorder revisionswere low: less than two per letter, with most revi-sions in the category of Reorder.
This is encourag-ing since the system to be built for geneticcounselors should provide acceptable argumentsrequiring a minimum of revision.To provide more details about the results, first,the only segments to which participants added in-formation are warrants.
The deletions of data con-sist of information presumably already known tothe recipients, e.g.
D6 in letter CF; other deletionsare of part or all of a warrant or all of a backing.The only deletions of claims consist of informationduplicated in another part of the letter; there wereno cases where a claim was deleted even though itcould be inferred from data and warrant.
The reor-derings were across-argument, which violates con-ventional topic structure in the genre, or within-argument.
In the latter, half repositioned a claimfrom final position in an argument to a positionbefore the warrant or backing; the other half repo-sitioned the warrant or backing before the data.8 Related WorkDue to space limitations, this section focuses onresearch on generation of normative arguments (asopposed to behavior-change and evaluative argu-ments), and arguments designed for text rather thandialogue.
Zukerman et al have presented severalpapers on argument generation from Bayesiannetwork domain models (e.g., 2000).
The type ofdomain model used in our work differs in two re-spects.
First, it is based on empirical research sinceit is intended to represent the simplified conceptualmodel presented to a lay audience in this genre.Second, it uses qualitative probabilistic constraints.One difference in argument generation is that oursystem?s argument strategies are based on analysisof the corpus.
Also, our system creates an inten-tional-level representation of an argument.Teufel and Moens (2002) present a codingscheme for scientific argumentation in researcharticles that is designed for automatic summariza-tion of human-authored text.
Thus, it would not besufficient for generation from a non-linguisticknowledge base.
Also, it does not make the finer-grained distinctions of the Toulmin model.Branting et al (1999) present the architecture ofa legal document drafting system.
In it, a discoursegrammar applies genre-specific knowledge, whilea legal reasoning module creates the illocutionarystructure of legal arguments.
Branting et al arguefor maintaining a distinct intentional-level repre-sentation of arguments to support interactive fol-low-up discussion.
We agree, but our designfurther distinguishes domain reasoning from argu-ment generation.As for work on ordering and explicitness, Reedand Long (1997) propose ordering heuristics for119arguments of classical deductive logic.
Fiedler andHoracek (2001) present a model for deciding whatcan be omitted from explanations of mathematicalproofs.
Carenini and Moore (2000) present an ex-periment to determine how much evidence is opti-mal in an evaluative argument.9 ConclusionsThis paper presents the design of a discourse gen-erator that plans the content and organization ofgenetic counseling letters containing arguments.
Apreliminary evaluation of the arguments was prom-ising.
The most important contribution of this workis the design of a non-domain-specific normativeargument generator that creates an intentional-levelrepresentation of an argument.
From the corpus,we formulated argument strategies that map formalproperties of qualitative causal probabilistic mod-els to components of Toulmin?s model.
Due to theseparation of domain, argument and genre-specificconcerns and the methodology used for acquiringthe domain model, this approach should be appli-cable to lay-oriented normative argument genera-tion in other domains.AcknowledgmentsThis material is based upon work supported by theNational Science Foundation under CAREERAward No.
0132821.ReferencesBaker DL, Eash T, Schuette JL, Uhlmann WR.
2002.Guidelines for writing letters to patients.
J GeneticCounseling, 11(5):399-418.Branting LK, Callaway CB, Mott BW, Lester JC.
1999.Integrating Discourse and Domain Knowledge forDocument Drafting.
Proc ICAIL-99, 214-220.Carenini G, Moore J.
2000.
An empirical study of theinfluence of argument conciseness on argument ef-fectiveness.
Proc Ann Meeting of ACL, 150-7.Druzdzel MJ, Henrion M. 1993.
Efficient reasoning inqualitative probabilistic networks.
Proc 11th Nat Confon AI, 548-553.Fiedler A, Horacek H. 2001.
Argumentation in Explana-tions to Logical Problems.
Computational Models ofNatural Language Arguments.
Proc ICCS 2001.Springer LNCS 2073, 969-978.Green N. 2005.
A Bayesian Network Coding Schemefor Annotating Biomedical Information Presented toGenetic Counseling Clients.
J Biomed Inf, 38: 130-144.Green N. 2006.
Representing Normative Arguments inGenetic Counseling.
AAAI SSS: Argumentation forConsumers of Healthcare.Green N. To appear.
Argumentation in a Causal Prob-abilistic Humanistic Domain.
Int J Intell Sys.Green N, Britt T, Jirak K. 2004.
Communication of Un-certainty in Genetic Counseling Patient EducationSystems.
AAAI FSS: Dialog Sys for Health Commun.Green N, Britt T, Jirak K, Waizenegger D, Xin X.
2005.User Modeling for Tailored Genomic E-health In-formation.
User Modeling 2005 Workshop: Person-alisation for eHealth,Korb K, Nicholson AE.
2004.
Bayesian artificial intel-ligence.
Chapman Hall/CRC, Boca Raton, Florida.Reed C, Long D. 1997.
Content ordering in the genera-tion of persuasive discourse.
IJCAI-97, 1022-27.Teufel S, Moens M. 2002.
Summarizing Scientific Arti-cles: Experiments with Relevance and RhetoricalStatus.
CL, 28(4):409-445.Toulmin SE.
1998.
The uses of argument.
9th ed.
Cam-bridge Univ.
Press, Cambridge, England.Zukerman I, McConacy R,  Korb K. 2000.
Using argu-mentation strategies in automated argument genera-tion.
Proc INLG-2000.letter CF New Delete Reorder letter WS New Delete Reorder0 2 1  0 2 40 2 0  0 0 10 0 1  0 1 10 0 6  2 1 10 2 1  1 0 0AVG 0 1.2 1.8 AVG 0.6 0.8 1.4STDEV 0 1.1 2.4 STDEV 0.9 0.8 1.5Table 1.
Number of revisions in letters CF and WS.
(N=5)120Figure 1.
Qualitative causal probabilistic network for hearing loss case.
[Patient] was referred by [doctor] to [clinic] on [date] for evaluation.D1 She has had frequent respiratory infections.W1 A genetic condition known as cystic fibrosis (CF) can cause respiratory problems.B1 Eighty percent of CF patients have chronic respiratory complaints.C1 [Doctor] suspected that CF could be the cause of her respiratory problems.Patient was given a sweat chloride test for CF.D2 The test showed an abnormal sweat chloride level (75 mmol/L).W2 A result over 60 mmol/L is considered positive for CF.C2 /D3It is very likely that [patient] has CF.
This means that cells in [patient?s] body contain two altered copiesof a gene called CFTR.W3 This alteration affects organs that secrete mucous, such as the lungs.
The alteration causes excessive se-cretions, resulting in frequent lung infections.C3 This alteration of the CFTR gene is most likely the cause of [patient?s] respiratory problems.D4 Both of you, [patient?s] parents, are of Northern European ancestry.B4 One in twenty-five people of N. European ancestry carry one altered copy of the CFTR gene.C4 Each of you could carry this alteration.W5 Our cells contain two copies of each gene.
One copy is inherited from each parent.
A child who inheritedtwo altered copies of a gene must have gotten one ...  from the mother and one ?
from the father.D5 Since [patient?s] cells contain two altered copies of CFTR,C5 it is likely that she got one altered copy of CFTR from each of you.C6 This is likelyD6 even though neither of you have cystic fibrosis.W6 When a parent has one altered copy and one normal copy of a gene such as CFTR, he or she is not usuallyaffected.
Someone who has only one altered copy is called a ?carrier?.
A child who inherits two alteredcopies will be affected since she has no normal copy.W7 A couple in which both are carriers will have a one in four (25%) chance that each child that they con-ceive will inherit two altered copies and be affected.
This also means that they have a three in four (75%)chance that the child will inherit at least one unaltered copy from one parent and not be affected.D7 Assuming that you are both carriers,C7 the chances for each child that you conceive together is 25% that the child will have CF, and 75% that thechild will not have CF.Figure 2.
Letter  used in experiment (column 2) with argument annotations (column 1).T1: unknownT2: negativeT1: yesT2: yesX-X0GJB2(father)GJB2 (child)Hearingloss (child)Test result(child)T1: 2 mutated allelesT2: 0 mutated allelesT1: yesT2: yesT1: 1 mutated allelesT2: 0 mutated allelesT1: 1 mutated allelesT2: 0 mutated allelesX-T1: 0 mutated allelesT2: 2 mutated allelesOther genotype(father)Other genotype(mother)X0T1: 0 mutated allelesT2: 1 mutated allelesT1: 0 mutated allelesT2: 1 mutated allelesNon-syndromic(child)GJB2(mother)Other genotype(child)121
