Concepts across categoriesHilke Reckman and Crit CremersLeiden University Centre for Linguistics (LUCL)Leiden, Netherlands{h. g. b. reckman,c.
l. j. m. cremers }@let.
leidenuniv.
nlAbstractVerbs or adjectives and their nominalizations and certain adverb adjective pairscan be argued to introduce the same concept.
This can be shown through inferencepatterns, which can be explained if we assume Davidsonian eventualities underlyingall predicates.
We make a contribution to the underlying state discussion by inves-tigating the advantages and disadvantages of Davidsonian versus Kimian states forstatives such as copular predicates.
Findings are implemented in our parser Delilah.1 IntroductionSeveral computational semantics systems have by now implemented a form ofevent analysis for verbs [1,3].
There has been much debate on whether it isdesirable to assume underlying states, parallel to underlying events.
Katz [9]argues against an underlying state analysis, even for stative verbs, whereasParsons [12] is ready to accept an underlying state analysis, even for simplenouns.
It is clear that states are more problematic than events.We discuss some cases where words of different categories can be arguedto introduce the same concept: verbs and their nominalizations and adjec-tives and their corresponding abstract nouns.
We show that underlying statesgive us the same advantages as underlying events, with respect to recognizingconcepts across categories for the purpose of inference, as they reify the pred-icates.
We then discuss an alternative representation for copular expressions,based on the conviction that the states in these expressions are ontologicallydifferent from eventualities, and show that it has unfavorable consequences forinference.
We end with a short note on related adjective-adverb pairs.The present research was carried out in the context of the Narrator project,which aims at the development of a system for storage and retrieval of personalillness relating narratives [13,14].
In this project we use and further developa semantic parser/generator for Dutch, Delilah [5,4].
Delilah is driven by aCombinatory Categorial Grammar and has a semantic output in first orderlogic with neo-Davidsonian event structures.2 Verbs and their nominalizationsIn this section we use nominalizations of verbs to illustrate our main consider-ations.
Sentence (1a) uses the noun operatie ?operation, surgery?
and (1b) usesthe verb opereren ?operate?.
The intuition is that (1a) and (1b) are equivalent.They can be inferred from each other.
(1) a. MarieMaryondergingunderwenteenanoperatie.operation?Mary went though/ had surgery.?b.
MarieMarywerdwasgeopereerd.operated?Mary was operated on.
?The same goes for (2a) and (2b), containing negation.
(2) a. MarieMaryondergingunderwentgeennooperatie.operation?Mary went though/ had surgery.?b.
MarieMarywerdwasnietnotgeopereerd.operated?Mary was not operated on.
?Since the narratives in Narrator are about experiences of patients (in theprototype being currently developed, on breast cancer), this kind of informa-tion is rather relevant and should preferably not be missed or misinterpreted.If one of the search criteria is, for example, that the narrative should tell abouta patient who had surgery, then each of these sentences above, if occurring ina narrative, provides the relevant information to determine wether it meetsthis search criterion or not.
And of each pair, both variants provide the sameinformation.Opereren en operatie introduce the same concept.
Also the relation be-tween opereren/operatie and Marie is the same in both (1a) and (1b).
Ar-guably it can also be inferred in both cases that there is yet someone elseinvolved who is not mentioned, a filler for the agent-slot of opereren/operatie.A form of neo-Davidsonian event analysis can be used to give both sen-tences the same semantic representation.
The basic event representation forboth (1a) and (1b) is illustrated below.
The representation is based on Parsons[11].
(The ?concept of?
relation is comparable to Jurafsky and Martin?s ?is-a?[8].).
The verb form is taken to name the concept.
The verb can be consid-ered as basic in a situation like this, because underived nouns do not usuallyintroduce events.
As it does not lie within the scope of this paper to discusswhat is the best way to represent time/tense, we keep the representations verysimple in that respect.
(3) ?e.event(e) & concept of(e, operate) & agent of(e, x) & theme of(e,Mary) & at-time(e, past)For (1b) this kind of representation is quite standard, and event repre-sentations for event-denoting nominalizations have also been suggested before[11,7].
The verb ondergaan in (1a) plays a special role.
It places the event intime (makes it extensional) and it lets its subject be the theme of the surgeryevent.3 Adjectives and nounsIn the previous section we have looked at nominalizations of verbs, and seenthat event semantics helps us getting the right entailments.
Now we will lookat adjectives and their nominalizations.
The pair below is at least close toequivalent.
Who has an illness, is ill. Who is ill, has at least one illness.
(4) a. MarieMaryhadhadeenanziekte.illness?Mary had an illness.?b.
MarieMarywaswasziek.ill?Mary was ill.?One could try to treat ?have an illness?
as a kind of collocation and thisway have (4a) interpreted as ill(Mary).
This, however leaves no space in therepresentation for the determiner, which may vary in form and accordingly ininterpretation.For the pair boos/boosheid, it is more difficult to come up with two equiva-lent sentences, for lack of a suitable ?support verb?.
Still we can observe that(5a) entails (5b).
(5) a. JanJanprobeerdetriedzijnhisboosheidangertetoverbergen.hide?Jan tried to hide his anger.?b.
JanJanwaswasboos.angry?Jan was angry?For Katz, however, stative nominalizations denote either a fact or an ex-tent/degree, but never a state.
So (5a) could mean that Jan tried to hide (thefact) that he was angry, or how angry he was, but not the state of his beingangry.
At least the factive reading seems very intuitive here.
It is not clearwhether there is also a stative reading.
In some other contexts, though, afactive reading is not possible.
In (6a) boosheid is combined with a durationalpredicate.
(A fact does not have a duration; once a fact, always a fact.)
Anextent or degree reading doesn?t seem to make a lot of sense either.
(6) a. Huntheirboosheidangerduurtlastsnooitneverlang.long?Their anger never lasts long.?b.
Zetheyzijnarenooitneverlanglongboos.angry?They never are angry for a long time?Besides, even if zijn boosheid in (5a) does only have a factive reading, howshould we represent the content of this fact in such a way that (5b) follows fromit and that we faithfully represent the quantifier?
(His anger is deninite.)
Wecan?t choose a representation like angry(Jan), because of the quantifier.
Butif we represent it as a noun (with a possessive kind of relation to Jan), whilestill using a traditional representation for (5b), then we lose the entailment.So even when embedded in a fact, reification of the predicate still yields betterrepresentations.These considerations lead us to the following type of representation forsentences like (4b) and (5b).
(7) ?e.state(e) & concept of(e, ill/anger) & theme of(e, Marie/Jan) & at-time(e, past)Interestingly, for the adjective-noun pairs it is not always that clear andsystematic which is the basic form.
For the verb - noun pairs above the verbwas always basic and the noun was its nominalization.
There are also verbsderived from nouns, but they follow a different pattern.
Adjective - noun pairsbehave less systematically.
In the pair verdrietig ?sad?
- verdriet ?sadness?, theadjective seems to be the derived form in Dutch, whereas in English the nounhas a nominalizing suffix.
And for boos ?angry?
- boosheid ?anger?
it is theother way around.4 An alternative representationWe have seen that adjectives and their ?nominalizations?
display the samekind of inference patterns as verbs and their nominalizations, and that reifi-cation of the predicate, through postulating an eventuality argument, makesthese patterns follow naturally.
This reification seems to be the crucial point,though.
And since independent evidence for a Davidsonian analysis for sta-tives is kind of shaky, we should investigate whether we really need the fullstructure.
Maienborn [10] proposes a representation for statives which doesinvolve reification of the predicate, but is different from the Davidsonian eventstructure representation.
In this section we discuss this alternative.4.1 Kimian statesMaienborn argues for a distinction between Davidsonian states (D-states) andKimian states (K-states).
Examples of verbs introducing D-states are stand,sit and sleep.
Examples of verbs introducing K-states are know, hate, resembleand copular expressions.
In the latter it is the copula that introduces the K-state.D-states introduce a normal Davidsonian argument, just like other eventu-alities.
For the K-states Maienborn shows that, like D-states, they are avail-able to anaphoric reference and time modification, and therefore they needa referential argument.
This referential argument, she argues though, is of adifferent ontological kind than Davidsonian eventuality arguments.
It is of amore abstract nature, similar to facts and propositions.
The main argumentis their deviant combinatorial behavior.
K-state verbs can not serve as theinfinitival complement of a verb of perception (see also examples (12b) and(14a) later in this section), they cannot combine with most adverbials, such asmanner adverbs and instrumentals, and neither do they combine with locativemodifiers, all of this in contrast with D-states and other eventualities.
Thisbrings her to the following (tentative) definition of K-states.
(8) Kimian states:K-states are abstract objects for the exemplification of a property Pat a holder x at a time t.Here are some of Maienborn?s (German) examples: (9a), with a D-state,is represented as (9b), and (10a), with a K-state, is represented as (10b).
Therepresentations are in a flat DRT notation.
(9) a. CarolCarolschla?ft.sleeps?Carol is sleeping.?b.
[se , v | sleep(s), theme(s, v), carol(v)](10) a. CarolCarolistismu?de.tired?Carol is tired.?b.
[sz , v | s ?
[tired(v)], carol(v)]The embedded box in (10b) contains the property that is the K-state, andthe discourse referent s reifies this property.4.2 Some modificationsEngelberg [6] proposes a few modifications to this view on K-states.
He arguesthe K-state should not be introduced by the copula, but rather by the post-copula predicate (e.g.
an adjective), because attributively used adjectives alsoshow the relevant behavior, without being accompanied by a copula.Also, he shows that it is problematic to put individuals introduced by anNP under the copula in the box that is introduced by ???
and presents the?content?
of the state.
Because in that case the state in (11a) (being relatedto Opus) would be a different one then the state in (11b) (being related toGeorge).
And while the states in (11b) and (11d) are the same, if Opus isthe tuba player of the Deathto?ngue, since the subject is in the outer box andtherefore extensionalized over, this is not the case for the states in (11a) and(11c).
(11) a. George is related to Opus.b.
Opus is related to George.c.
George is related to the tuba player of the Deathto?ngued.
The tuba player of the Deathto?ngue is related to George.Identity relations between states get more coherent and intuitive if thecontent of the box embedded under ???
is restricted to only the core predicate(e.g.
related(x, y)).Now if Engelberg is right that K-states are not more fine grained thanevents and D-states, and the content of the embedded K-state box is in allcases only a core predicate, one can wonder what the advantage of the Kimianstyle representation still is.
For facts and propositions this kind of represen-tation is useful, exactly because the content of a proposition is more than asingle predicate; it is a full-fledged proposition, and it makes sense to assigna referential argument to the proposition as a whole.
Individuals introducedby NPs in embedded propositions are not extensionalized over.
If George saidthat he is related to Opus and if Opus is the tuba player of the Deathto?ngue,it is not entailed that George said that he is related to the tuba player of theDeathto?ngue.
The main remaining difference between the D-state and K-staterepresentations seems to be that the K-state predicate directly predicates overits argument(s), whereas in D-states this relation is mediated through thetaroles.
It is not clear why this should be the case.4.3 Entailments between K-state and D-state verbsRepresenting K-states in a different format than D-states, also causes anothercomplication in the domain of inference.
German liegen ?to lie?
is a D-stateverb, hence the grammaticality of (12a).
Sein ?to be?
and also sich befinden?to be located?
are K-state verbs, as shown by the ungrammaticality of (12b).
(12) a. IchIsahsawdastheBuchbookaufondemtheTischtableliegen.lie?I saw the book lie on the table.?b.
*IchIsahsawdastheBuchbooksichreflaufondemtheTischtablebefinden.be-located?I saw the book be located on the table?But (13a) entails (13b).
1 (Not all German speakers seem to like the versionwith the copula, but with befinden (13b) is certainly good.)
If these twopredicates introduce two very different types of states that require differentstyles of representation, this entailment is problematic.
(13) a. DastheBuchbookliegtliesaufondemtheTisch.table?The book is lying on the table.?b.
DastheBuchbookbefindetlocatedsich/istrefl/ isaufondemtheTisch.table?The book is (located) on the table?It is of course conceivable that the verb liegen actually introduces twosubstates, one of which is Kimian.
Intuitively positional location verbs (withtheir complements) such as liegen refer two different pieces of information.One of these is the location of the subject (expressed by the complement)and the other one is in what kind of position the subject is (upright or lyingflat...).
The locational information will have to be the K-state that gets usthe entailment.
That means that the positional information has to constitutethe D-state that saves the construction in (12a).So far the problem seems fixable, be it at the cost of losing the clear-cutdistinction between D-state verbs and K-state verbs.
(The positional locationverbs stand, sit and lie are actually quite a substantial group within the D-state verb class).
But it gets worse.
The verb to sleep is a D-state verb andto be asleep, being a copula construction, behaves like a K-state expression,as is illustrated below.
(14) a.
*IkIzagsawCarolCaroldiepdeep(ly)ininslaapsleepzijn.be?I saw Carol be fast asleep.?b.
IkIzagsawCarolCarolslapen.sleep?I saw Carol sleep.
?1 These examples can be reproduced in Dutch, but there the copula version of (13b) issomewhat marginal.But we can observe that (15a) entails (15b).
(15) a. CarolCarolwaswasdiepdeep(ly)ininslaap.sleep?Carol was fast asleep.?b.
CarolCarolsliep.slept?Carol was sleeping?Here it is not plausible that (15a) contains a D-state as well as a K-state,because the presence of this D-state should save (14a).
2Although the distinction between two groups of statives with differentbehavior is very convincing, we conclude that in a semantic representation forinference purposes, it does not seem to be a good idea to treat to sleep andto be asleep as fundamentally different kinds of entities.
We therefore stick toDavidsonian style representations for all states.
The differences between thetwo classes that Maienborn shows are of course real.
But as they mainly seemrelevant for selectional restrictions, they can probably best be captured aspart of the feature structure of the predicates, in a computational system likeours.
In Delilah the decision of whether two constituents can combine to forma new one depends on the unifiability of their graphs of features.
Here one caninclude a feature that says for example that a predicate is ?abstract?.
Verbs ofperception, all kinds of adverbials and locative modifiers can then be specifiedfor combining only with concrete predicates.
The semantic representationthen only needs to contain information that is relevant for inference.5 Adjectives and adverbsAdjectives and adverbs are closely related categories [2].
(The main group ofadverbs that also occur as adjectives are the manner adverbs.)
If we assume2 An anonymous reviewer proposed the representation (1a) for ?Carol was asleep?.
Madeconsistent with the view that a K-state is the exemplification of a property that would be(1b).
(Where the property is ?being the theme of a sleep event?
)(1) a.
[s | s ?
[s?, v | [sleep(s?
), theme(s?, v), carol(v)]]b.
[sz , v | s ?
[s?e | [sleep(s?
), theme(s?, v)], carol(v)]With a D-state embedded in a K-state, this looks like an interesting compromise.
The mainproblem with it, is that Maienborn introduces K-states next to D-states in order to derivethe different combinatory properties of K-states and D-states from their different ontologicalstatus.
Now if a K-states embeds a D-state, with the same ontological status as any otherD-state, one would expect the embedded D-state to also have the same properties as otherD-states, such as being able to have a location.
This would make the positing of K-statesloose its main advantage.underlying states for adjectives, we should do so for their adverbial counter-parts as well.
(This is one of the reasons Katz [9] does not want underlyingstates for adjectives.)
This is not necessarily problematic, because the Ger-man dabei -construction which Maienborn uses as a diagnostic for whether apredicate has a referential argument, also seems to work for adverbs.
In (16)the da in dabei refers to schnell.
This means that schnell should introduce areferential argument.
(16) Erstaunlichamazingist,iswiehowschnellfastundanddabeithereatzuverla?ssigreliablydertheneuenewMozillaMozillaFirebirdFirebirdSeitenweb sitesdarstellt.displays?Amazing is, how quickly and reliably the new Mozilla Firebird dis-plays web sites.
?This suggests that our representation for these kinds of adverbs can be similarto the one that we have proposed for adjectives.6 Conclusions and further researchWe have shown that a nice side effect of (neo-)Davidsonian event representa-tions, is that entailment relations between verbs and their nominalizations andbetween adjectives and their corresponding nouns follow naturally, withoutany extra machinery.
We have defended the use of a Davidsonian represen-tation for adjectives, by showing that assuming states of different ontologicalsorts obscures certain inferential relations.
Our point of view is that semanticrepresentations should only contain information that is needed for inference.Information that is relevant for selectional restrictions should be accommo-dated elsewhere, where it does not interfere with inference.In our parser Delilah we have implemented event structures for verbs andnominalizations of verbs.
We will proceed with implementing the proposedstructures for adjectives along the same lines.
We believe that in generalsemantic parsers that aim at producing structures that support inference canbenefit from such an approach.
Further research will have to show how muchwe need to further refine our event structures, for example by systematicallyincluding subevents.AcknowledgementsThis research was funded by Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research(NWO).
Our participation in the workshop was funded by LUF (Leids Uni-versiteits Fonds) and LUCL.We also thank the reviewers for their comments.References[1] Bos, J., S. Clark, M. Steedman, J. R. Curran and J. Hockenmaier, Wide-coverage semantic representations from a ccg parser, Proceedings of COLING-04 (2004).
[2] Broekhuis, H., Adjectives and adjective phrases, Working Paper 2, University ofTilburg (1999).
[3] Copestake, A., D. Flickinger, I.
A.
Sag and C. Pollard, Minimal recursionsemantics: An introduction (1999).
[4] Cremers, C., Formalizing the syntax (1999).
[5] Cremers, C., (?n) betekenis berekend, Nederlandse Taalkunde 7 (2002), pp.
375?395.
[6] Engelberg, S., Kimian states and the grammar of predicative adjectives,Theoretical Linguistics 31 (2005), pp.
331?347.
[7] Higginbotham, J., On events in linguistic semantics, in: J. Higginbotham,F.
Pianesi and A. Varzi, editors, Speaking of Events, Oxford University Press.,Oxford, New York, 2000 pp.
49?79.
[8] Jurafsky, D. and J. H. Martin, ?Speech and Language Processing: AnIntroduction to Natural Language Processing,?
Computational Linguistics andSpeech Recognition, Prentice-Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ, 2000.
[9] Katz, G., Anti neo-davidsonianism: Against a davidsonian semantics for statesentences, in: C. Tenny and J. Pustejovsky, editors, Events as GrammaticalObjects, CSLI Publications, Stanford, CA, 2000 pp.
393?416.
[10] Maienborn, C., On the limits of the davidsonian approach: The case of copulasentences, Theoretical Linguistics 31 (2005), pp.
275?316.
[11] Parsons, T., ?Events in the semantics of English: a study in subatomicsemantics,?
MIT press, Massachusetts, 1990.
[12] Parsons, T., Underlying states and time travel., in: J. Higginbotham, F. Pianesiand A. Varzi, editors, Speaking of Events, Oxford University Press, Oxford, NewYork, 2000 pp.
81?93.
[13] Toussaint, P. and L. Wolf, Design of the narrator system: processing, storingand retrieving medical narrative data, Proceedings of ISoLA-2004 (2004).
[14] Wolf, L., E. Hoenkamp, R. Overberg, H. Reckman and P. Toussaint, Design ofthe narrator system: processing, storing and retrieving medical narrative data,Society for Design and Process Science (Submitted).
