Web Coverage of the 2004 US Presidential ElectionArno ScharlKnow-Center & GrazUniversity of TechnologyGraz, Austriascharl@ecoresearch.netAlbert WeichselbraunVienna University of Economics andBusiness AdministrationVienna, Austriaweichselbraun@ecoresearch.netAbstractWhen corporations, news media and ad-vocacy organizations embrace networkedinformation technology, intentionally orunintentionally, they influence democra-tic processes.
To capture and understandthe influence of publicly available elec-tronic content, the US Election 2004 WebMonitor1 tracked the online coverage ofUS presidential candidates, and investi-gated how this coverage reflected theirposition on environmental issues.1 IntroductionMost attempts to monitor the campaign perfor-mance of presidential candidates focus on publicopinion, which is influenced by the consumptionof media products.
Analyzing patterns of politi-cal communication, however, should include theconsumption as well as the production of content(Howard 2003).
Monitoring candidates' coverageon the Web provides a complementary source ofempirical data and window into the evolvingconcept of electronic democracy (Dutton, El-berse et al 1999).A recent Pew/Internet survey (Horrigan,Garrett et al 2004) found that four out of ten USInternet users aged 18 or older accessed politicalmaterial during the 2004 presidential campaign,up 50 percent from the 2000 campaign.
For po-litical news in general, more than two thirds ofAmerican broadband users and over half the dial-up users seek Web sites of national news organi-zations.
International news sites are the secondmost popular category at 24 and 14 percent, re-spectively.1 http://www.ecoresearch.net/election2004As traditional media extend their dominantposition to the online world, analyzing their Websites should therefore reflect the majority of po-litical content accessed by the average user.2 Impact of New Media on PublicOpinionRepresentative democracy offers significant pos-sibilities for exploiting information networks(Holmes 2002), but there is little agreement ontheir specific impact.
Proponents praise the net-works?
potential to increase the accessibility ofinformation, encourage participatory decision-making, and facilitate communication with pol-icy officials and like-minded citizens.
From anadvocate?s perspective, disseminating environ-mental information via the Internet, directly orthrough news media, creates awareness by em-phasizing the interdependency of ecological, eco-nomic, and social issues (Scharl 2004).Critics portray McLuhan?s global village as a?neofeudal manor with highly fortified and opu-lent castles (centers of industrial, financial, andmedia power) surrounded by vast hinterlands ofworking peasants clamoring for survival and rec-ognition?
(Tehranian 1999, p55f.).
They arguethat information networks polarize society bylinking groups with similar political views.
Low-overhead forms of personal publishing (Gruhl,Guha et al 2004) such as Web logs and onlinediscussion forums, for example, might reinforcea group?s world view and shun opposing opin-ions.
This reinforcement, amplified by biasedmedia coverage, polarizes groups (Sunstein2004) and degrades the climate of public dis-course (Horrigan, Garrett et al 2004).The communication strategies of news media,corporations and advocacy organizations affectdemocratic processes.
Yet they only condition,rather than determine these processes.
Assuming35deterministic effects of information networksneglects the world?s ambivalence, and results inconflicting claims regarding the networks?
politi-cal impact.
News media are free to choose whichcandidate to emphasize, and how to interpret cur-rent events (Wayne 2001).
Most Americans pre-fer unbiased news sources (Horrigan, Garrett etal.
2004), but Web sites tend to reflect their own-ers?
political agenda, and thus contribute to apolarized electorate.While a narrow margin decided the last twoUS presidential elections, differences in the can-didates?
positions became more pronounced in2004, and the political deliberation more parti-san.
Partisans tend to perceive mass media con-tent as biased against their point of view.
Expla-nations for this hostile media effect range fromselective recall (preferentially remembering hos-tile content), selective categorization (perceivingthe same content differently) and conflictingstandards (considering hostile content as invalidor irrelevant).
Recent research suggests that se-lective categorization best explains hostile mediaeffects (Schmitt, Gunther et al 2004).3 MethodologyGiven an increasingly polarized electorate andhostile media effects that impair partisans?
judg-ment, analyzing political Web content requiresobjective measures of organizational bias.
Yetthe volume and dynamic nature of Web docu-ments complicate testing the assumption of or-ganizational bias.
To address this challenge, theUS Election 2004 Web Monitor sampled 1,153Web sites in weekly intervals.
The project drewupon the Newslink.org, Kidon.com and ABYZ-NewsLinks.com directories to compile a list of 42US news organizations and 72 international sitesfrom four other English-speaking countries:Canada, United Kingdom, Australia and NewZealand.
To extend the study, the sample in-cluded the Web sites of the Fortune 1000 (thelargest US corporations ranked by revenue) and39 environmental organizations.Considering the dynamics of Web content ingeneral and presidential campaigns in particular(Howard 2003), a crawling agent mirrored theseWeb sites by following their hierarchical struc-ture until reaching 50 megabytes of textual datafor news media, and 10 megabytes for commer-cial and advocacy sites.
These limits help com-pare sites of heterogeneous size, and reduce thedilution of top-level information by content inlower hierarchical levels (Scharl 2000).Such a collection of recorded content used fordescriptive analysis is often referred to as corpus.This research investigated and visualized regu-larities in three groups of Web sites by applyingmethods from corpus linguistics and textual sta-tistics (Biber, Conrad et al 1998; Lebart, Salemet al 1998; McEnery and Wilson 2001).Quantitative textual analysis of Web docu-ments necessitates three steps in order to yield auseful machine-readable representation (Lebart,Salem et al 1998):?
The first step converts hypertext documentsinto plain text ?
i.e., processing the gathereddata and eliminating markup code and script-ing elements.?
The second step segments the textual chaininto minimal units by removing coding am-biguities such as punctuation marks, the caseof letters, hyphens, or points in abbrevia-tions.
In the case of the Election Monitor,this process yielded about half a milliondocuments each week, comprising about 125million words in 10 million sentences.
Thesystem then identified and removed redun-dant segments such as headlines and newssummaries, whose appearance on multiplepages distorts frequency counts.?
The third step, identification, groups identi-cal units and counts their occurrences ?
i.e.,creating an inventory of words, or multi-word units of meaning (Danielsson 2004).The frequency of candidate references pre-sented in the following section is based onsuch an exhaustive index, which often usesdecreasing frequency of occurrence as theprimary sorting criterion and lexicographicorder as the secondary criterion.Frequency of References (Attention)Media coverage and public recognition go hand-in hand (Wayne 2001), documented by strongcorrelations between the attention of news mediaand both public salience and attitudes towardpresidential candidates (Kiousis and McCombs2004).
The US Election 2004 Web Monitor cal-culated attention as the relative number of refer-ences to a candidate.
To determine references tocandidates or environmental topics, a patternmatching algorithm considered common terminflections while excluding ambiguous expres-sions.
Only identifying occurrences of george w.bush, for example, ignores equally valid refer-ences to president bush and george walker bush.36Figure 1.
US Election 2004 Web Monitor one day after the election (Nov 3, 2004)Yet a general query for bush fails to distin-guish the president?s last name from referencesto wilderness areas or woody perennial plants.After the election, nearly two thirds of the me-dia references mentioned George W. Bush andDick Cheney, up four percentage points from thepreceding week (Figure 1).
About one third re-ported on John Kerry and John Edwards.
TheFortune 1000 companies and environmental or-ganizations dedicated over 80 percent of theircoverage to the president and his running mate.Across all three samples, the independent teamof Ralph Nader and Peter Camejo garnered lessthan five percent of the attention.4 Semantic Orientation of References(Attitude)Calculating the frequency of candidate refer-ences disregards their context (Yi, Nasukawa etal.
2003).
Therefore, the system also tracked atti-tude, the semantic orientation of a sentence to-wards the candidates (Scharl, Pollach et al2003).The algorithm calculated the distance betweenthe target word and 4,400 positive and negativewords from the General Inquirer?s tagged dic-tionary (Stone, Dunphy et al 1966).
Reverselemmatization added about 3,000 terms to thedictionary by considering plurals, gerund forms,past tense suffixes and other syntactical varia-tions (e.g.
manipulate ?
manipulates, manipulat-ing, manipulated).Two sentences from news media on Novem-ber 4 exemplify positive vs. negative coverage ofa topic (zero indicates neutral coverage).
Theunderlined words, identified in the tagged dic-tionary, were used to compute the semantic ori-entation of sentences with oil price references.?
?US stocks rallied Wednesday, boosted byshares of health and defence companies thatare seen benefiting from the re-election ofPresident George W. Bush, but higher oilprices checked advances?
(NEW ZEALANDHERALD).
?
(+ 4.09)?
?The dollar hit its lowest level in more thaneight months against the Euro Thursday, fal-ling sharply on worries about the economiceffects of rising oil prices and expectationsof continued trade and budget deficits inPresident Bush's second term?
(ST. PETERS-BURG TIMES).
?
(?
4.03)Initially, media coverage favored the Republi-cans, although the Democratic contenders gainedground in September 2004 (Figure 2).
Kerry'sperformance in the first televised debate acceler-ated these gains in media attitude, followed by atight race between the two teams in the fourweeks preceding the election.
The re-election ofGeorge W. Bush again widened the gap, under-standably considering the positive connotation ofterms such as winning and victory.37Bush/Cheney Kerry/Edwards Nader/CamejoUS MediaAfter ElectionAttitude-5051036 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47-40-35-30-25-20-15-10-50536 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47Fortune 1000-505101536 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 4520Environmental OrganizationsWeek46 47Figure 2.
Attitude of the US Media, the Fortune 1000 and environmental organizationstowards the US presidential candidates between September and November 2004Compared to the news media, the other twosamples showed more bias.
Fortune 1000 com-panies presented the Republican candidates mostfavorably, while environmental organizationstended to criticize the environmental record ofGeorge W. Bush ?
particularly abandoning theKyoto Treaty ratification, and reducing air pollu-tion controls through the Clear Skies Act.To investigate these claims, separate analysesrelated environmental issues to Web sites andcandidates.
In terms of energy policy, for exam-ple, one such analysis investigated Web coverageof renewable energy, fossil fuels and nuclearpower ?
a crucial aspect in light of recent geopo-litical events and the global environmental im-pact of US energy policy decisions.
On a microlevel, the Election Monitor?s Web site allowedusers to list sentences containing both candidatereferences and energy-related terms, and sortthese sentences by semantic orientation.Figure 3.
Perceptual map of energy terms among international news media38On a macro level, the perceptual map ofFigure 3 summarizes the prominence of energyterms among international media sites.
The dia-gram is based on correspondence analysis, whichprocessed the table of term frequencies as of 17September 2004.
Related concepts and organiza-tions appear close to each other in the computa-tionally created two-dimensional space.
The cir-cular and rectangular markers represent energy-related concepts and media sites, respectively.When interpreting the diagram it is important tonote that term frequency, not media attitude, de-termines the position of data points.The distribution of data points shows a tripolarstructure: fossil fuels in the upper left, renewableenergies in the upper right, and nuclear energynear the bottom of the diagram.
The diagram il-lustrates news organizations with distinct content?
Fox News and Time, for example, with theircoverage of nuclear energy and wind energy,respectively.
Geographic differences are alsoapparent.
Fossil fuels align with many Australianmedia, reflecting the country?s richness in min-eral resources.
Most business publications con-gregate around fossil fuels as well, BusinessWeek being a notable exception.References to fuel cells and hydrogen oftenappear together.
Their potential use with variousenergy sources explains their slightly isolatedposition.
Combining the energy carrier hydrogenwith fuel cell conversion technology yields highefficiency and low pollution in applications suchas zero-emission vehicles, energy storage andportable electronics.5 Refining Attitude MeasuresLexically identical occurrences with differingor even opposite meanings, depending on thecontext, represent an inherent problem of auto-matically determining the semantic orientation ofWeb content (Wilson, Wiebe et al 2005).
Word-sense ambiguity, for example, is a common phe-nomenon.
Arrest as a noun takes custody by le-gal authority, for example, while arrest as a verbcould mean to catch or to stop.
Similarly, in eco-nomics the noun good refers to physical objectsor services.
As an adjective, good assigns desir-able or positive qualities.
Part of speech taggingconsiders this variability by annotating Web con-tent and distinguishing between nouns, verbs,adjectives and other parts of speech.Besides differences in word-sense, analystsalso encounter other types of ambiguities ?
e.g.,idiomatic versus non-idiomatic term usage, orvarious pragmatic ambiguities involving irony,sarcasm, and metaphor (Wiebe, Wilson et al2005).Given the considerable size of the corpus andthe need to publish results in weekly intervals,the system was designed to maximize throughputin terms of documents per second.
A comparablysimple approach restricted to single words andwithout sentence parsing ensured the timelycompletion of the weekly calculations.Planned extensions will add multiple-wordcombinations to the tagged dictionary to discernmorphologically similar but semantically differ-ent terms such as fuel cell and prison cell.
Yetthe lexis of Web content only partially deter-mines its semantic orientation, despite usingmulti-word units of meaning instead of singlewords or lemmas (Danielsson 2004).
Prototypi-cal implementations such as the OpinionFinder(Wilson, Hoffmann et al 2005) have demon-strated that grammatical parsing can successfullyaddress this limitation by identifying ambiguitiesand capturing meaning-making processes at lev-els beyond lexis ?
correctly identifying, annotat-ing and evaluating nested expressions of variouscomplexity (Wiebe, Wilson et al 2005).6 Keyword AnalysisKeyword Analysis locates words in a giventext and compares their frequency with a refer-ence distribution from a usually larger corpus oftext.
To complement measures of attention andattitude towards a candidate, keywords groupedby political party and geographic region high-lighted issues associated with each candidate.For that purpose, the system compared the termfrequencies in sentences mentioning a candidate(target corpus) with the term frequencies in theentire sample of 1,153 Web sites from mediaorganizations, the Fortune 1000, and environ-mental organizations (reference corpus).The results suggest that personalities andcampaign events dominate over substantive pol-icy issues, a possible reason for the averagevoter?s limited interest in and knowledge aboutpolitical processes (Wayne 2001).
Table 1 sum-marizes keywords that US news media associ-ated with the presidential candidates and theirrunning mates in the week preceding the elec-tion.
The list ranks keywords by decreasing sig-nificance, computed via a chi-square test withYates?
correction for continuity.
To avoid out-liers, the list only considers nouns with at least100 occurrences in the reference corpus.39Republicans Democrats IndependentsGeorge Bush Dick Cheney John Kerry John Edwards Ralph Nader Peter Camejodebate lynne nominee carolina ballot opinionchallenger daughter vietnam running percent runningiraq halliburton challenger debate candidacy respondentsgore debate debate nominee advocate electorswar lesbian massachusetts gephardt party commonwealthspeech rumsfeld nomination iowa supreme ballotnominee pensacola war ashton gore endorsementguard rally rival optimism petition nomineehussein wyoming speech north court battlegroundterrorism wilmington clinton trail pennsylvania balanceTable 1.
Keywords of US news media (Oct 27, 2004)The keywords document that the televisiondebates between the major candidates and theirrunning mates remained topical up until the elec-tion.
The war on terrorism and persistent prob-lems in dealing with insurgents in Iraq doggedBush, while his challenger?s service in Vietnamcontinued to occupy the media.Vice-President and former CEO of Hallibur-ton Cheney was busy, traveling to Pensacola,Wyoming and Wilmington and addressing mediaquestions about his wife Lynne and his lesbiandaughter Mary.
A speech of former PresidentClinton, joining Kerry in his first appearance af-ter undergoing heart surgery, reminded unde-cided voters of more prosperous times.
At thesame time, actor Ashton Kutcher hit the cam-paign trail for John Edwards, senator from NorthCarolina and running mate of John Kerry.Although the Supreme Court refused his can-didacy in Pennsylvania over invalid nominatingpetitions, Ralph Nader was on the ballot in morethan 30 states.
Articles about him reiterated con-troversies over vote-splitting in the previouselection, and the Supreme Court's decision to endthe Bush vs. Gore recounts in December 2000.7 Conclusion and Future ResearchThe US Election 2004 Web Monitor provided aweekly snapshot of international Web coverage,measuring attention and attitude towards the USpresidential candidates.
Keywords grouped bypolitical party and geographic region summarizeissues associated with each candidate.Compared to the Web sites of news media,campaign managers have less control of spin andimpact in media that rely on citizenry for mes-sage turnover (Howard 2003).
Extending the cur-rent system will allow measuring informationpropagation, not only among corporate Web sitesbut also via Web logs, online discussion forumsand other forms of personal publishing.
Investi-gating the propagation of political content insuch environments requires large samples tomeasure spatial effects, and frequent monitoringto account for temporal effects.For measuring information propagation, Gruhlet al (Gruhl, Guha et al 2004) suggest distin-guishing between internally driven, sustaineddiscussions (chatter) and externally inducedsharp rises in activity (spikes).
Occasionally,spikes result from chatter through resonancewhen insignificant events trigger massive reac-tions.
Resonance occurs when individual interac-tions generate large-scale, collective behavior,often showing a sensitive dependence on initialconditions.
Social network analysis attempts toexplain such macroscopic propagation of infor-mation between people, groups and organizations(Kumar, Raghavan et al 2002).
By disseminat-ing information via their social networks, indi-viduals create strong peer influence that oftensurpasses exogenous influences.Efforts to create a more responsible electorate(Dutton, Elberse et al 1999) can leverage thispeer influence to trigger self-reinforcing contentpropagation among individuals.
Relationshipsbetween these individuals determine the paths ofinformation dissemination.
It is along these pathsthat inter-individual communication multipliesthe impact of spikes and creates widespread at-tention.
Knowledge on the structure and deter-minants of these paths could help promote issue-oriented voting.
This in turn would lead to a bet-ter-informed electorate aware of its leadershipchoices, and able to hold decision-makers ac-countable.40Modeling the production, propagation andconsumption of political Web will help addressfour research questions: How redundant is Webcontent, and what technical and organizationalfactors influence information flows within thenetwork?
Can existing models of informationpropagation such as hub-and-spoke, syndicationand peer-to-peer adequately explain these infor-mation flows?
How does Web content influencepublic opinion, and what are appropriate meth-ods to measure and model the extent, dynamicsand latency of this process?
Finally, which con-tent placement strategies increase the impact onthe target audience and support self-reinforcingpropagation among individuals?Acknowledgements.
Our first word of appre-ciation goes to Jamie Murphy for his ongoingsupport throughout the project.
We would alsolike to thank Astrid Dickinger, Wilhelm Langen-berger, Wei Liu, Antonijo Nikolic, Maya Pu-rushothaman, Dave Webb and Mark Winkler fortheir valuable help and suggestions.
The USElection 2004 Web Monitor represents an initia-tive of the Research Network on EnvironmentalOnline Communication (www.ecoresearch.net),cooperating with the University of Western Aus-tralia, Graz University of Technology, ViennaUniversity of Economics and Business Admini-stration, and the Know-Center,  which is fundedby the Austrian Competence Center programKplus under the auspices of the Austrian Minis-try of Transport, Innovation and Technology(http://www.ffg.at) and by the State of Styria.ReferencesBiber, D., S. Conrad, et al (1998).
Corpus Lin-guistics ?
Investigating Language Structureand Use.
Cambridge, Cambridge UniversityPress.Danielsson, P. (2004).
"Automatic Extraction ofMeaningful Units from Corpora", Interna-tional Journal of Corpus Linguistics, 8(1):109-127.Dutton, W. H., A. Elberse, et al (1999).
"A CaseStudy of a Netizen's Guide to Elections",Communications of the ACM, 42(12): 48-54.Gruhl, D., R. Guha, et al (2004).
InformationDiffusion Through Blogspace.
13th Interna-tional World Wide Web Conference, NewYork, USA, ACM Press.Holmes, N. (2002).
"Representative Democracyand the Profession", Computer, 35(2): 118-120.Horrigan, J., K. Garrett, et al (2004).
The Inter-net and Democratic Debate.
Washington, PewInternet & American Life Project.Howard, P. N. (2003).
"Digitizing the SocialContract: Producing American Political Cul-ture in the Age of New Media", The Commu-nication Review, 6: 213-245.Kiousis, S. and M. McCombs (2004).
"Agenda-Setting Effects and Attitude Strength ?
Politi-cal Figures during the 1996 Presidential Elec-tion", Communication Research, 31(1): 36-57.Kumar, R., P. Raghavan, et al (2002).
"The Weband Social Networks", Computer, 35(11): 32-36.Lebart, L., A. Salem, et al (1998).
ExploringTextual Data.
Dordrecht, Kluwer AcademicPublishers.McEnery, T. and A. Wilson (2001).
Corpus Lin-guistics.
Edinburgh, Edinburgh UniversityPress.Scharl, A.
(2000).
Evolutionary Web Develop-ment.
London, Springer.
http://webdev.wu-wien.ac.at/.Scharl, A., Ed.
(2004).
Environmental OnlineCommunication.
London, Springer.http://www.ecoresearch.net/springer/.Scharl, A., I. Pollach, et al (2003).
Determiningthe Semantic Orientation of Web-based Cor-pora.
Intelligent Data Engineering and Auto-mated Learning, 4th International Conference,IDEAL-2003 (Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-ence, Vol.
2690).
J. Liu, Y. Cheung and H.Yin.
Berlin, Springer: 840-849.Schmitt, K. M., A. C. Gunther, et al (2004).
"Why Partisans See Mass Media as Biased",Communication Research, 31(6): 623-641.Stone, P. J., D. C. Dunphy, et al (1966).
TheGeneral Inquirer: A Computer Approach toContent Analysis.
Cambridge, MIT Press.Sunstein, C. R. (2004).
"Democracy and Filter-ing", Communications of the ACM, 47(12):57-59.Tehranian, M. (1999).
Global Communicationand World Politics ?
Domination, Develop-ment, and Discourse.
Boulder, Lynne Rienner.41Wayne, S. J.
(2001).
The Road to the WhiteHouse 2000 ?
The Politics of PresidentialElections.
New York, Palgrave.Wiebe, J., T. Wilson, et al (2005).
"AnnotatingExpressions of Opinions and Emotions inLanguage", Language Resources and Evalua-tion 39(2-3): 165-210.Wilson, T., P. Hoffmann, et al (2005).
Opinion-Finder ?
A System for Subjectivity Analysis.Human Language Technology Conference /Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing (HLT-EMNLP 2005),Vancouver, Canada.Wilson, T., J. Wiebe, et al (2005).
RecognizingContextual Polarity in Phrase-Level SentimentAnalysis.
Human Language Technology Con-ference / Conference on Empirical Methods inNatural Language Processing (HLT-EMNLP2005), Vancouver, Canada.Yi, J., T. Nasukawa, et al (2003).
SentimentAnalyzer: Extracting Sentiments about aGiven Topic using Natural Language Process-ing Techniques.
3rd IEEE International Con-ference on Data Mining, Florida, USA.42
