ANNIS: Complex Multilevel Annotations in a Linguistic DatabaseMichael Go?tze and Stefanie DipperDepartment of Linguistics, University of Potsdam14415 Potsdam, Germany{goetze,dipper}@ling.uni-potsdam.deAbstractWe present ANNIS, a linguistic databasethat aims at facilitating the process of ex-ploiting richly annotated language data bynaive users.
We describe the role of thedatabase in our research project and theproject requirements, with a special focuson aspects of multilevel annotation.
Wethen illustrate the usability of the databaseby illustrative examples.
We also addresscurrent challenges and next steps.1 IntroductionUntil recently, working with data that is anno-tated at multiple levels with different types of an-notation required rather advanced computer skills,which cannot be expected from the majority of po-tentially interested users.We present ANNIS, a linguistic database thataims at providing the infrastructure for supportinglinguists in their work on multilevel annotations.We describe and illustrate the current state of ourwork and sketch the next steps.In sec.
2, we present the research scenario AN-NIS is developed for, show the role of the linguis-tic database therein, and sketch the major require-ments it aims to fulfill.
We then describe the archi-tecture and current functionality, and discuss theway difficult aspects of multidimensional annota-tions are treated (sec.
3).
In sec.
4, we illustratethe work with the database by three exemplary ap-proaches.
Finally, we sketch our next steps.2 BackgroundResearch ScenarioThe database ANNIS is being developed in theCollaborative Research Center SFB 632 on Infor-mation Structure, which consists of 13 individualresearch projects from disciplines such as theoret-ical linguistics, psycholinguistics, first and secondlanguage acquisition, typology and historical lin-guistics.1 In the research center, data of variouslanguages is collected and annotated at the levelsof phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, andpragmatics?levels that contribute in ways yet tobe determined to the information structural parti-tioning of discourse and utterances.For annotation, task-specific tools are beingused, e.g.
EXMARaLDA, annotate, RSTTool, andMMAX.2 Data is then converted into a standoffdata interchange format, which is fed into the lin-guistic database ANNIS.
ANNIS aims at providingfunctionalities for exploring and querying the data,offering suitable means for both visualization andexport.User RequirementsCentral requirements evolving out of the scenariosketched above and, as we believe, for multilevelannotation in general are Data heterogeneity, Datareuse, and Accessibility (cf.
(Dipper and Go?tze,2005)).Data heterogeneity is a result of: (i) the lan-guage data to be annotated, varying with respectto size (single sentences vs. narrations), modal-ity (monologue vs. dialogue, text vs. speech) andlanguage; (ii) the annotations, which use different1http://www.sfb632.uni-potsdam.de/.For more information about ANNIS, see http://www.sfb632.uni-potsdam.de/annis/ and (Dipper et al,2004).2http://www.rrz.uni-hamburg.de/exmaralda/http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/projects/sfb378/negra-corpus/http://www.wagsoft.com/RSTToolhttp://mmax.eml-research.de/61data structures (attribute-value pairs, trees, point-ers, etc.
); and (iii) data formats that stem from dif-ferent task-specific annotation tools.Data reuse must be supported, e.g.
for furtheror re-annotation, statistical analyses, or reuse ofthe data in other tools.Accessibility of both tools and data is an obvi-ous prerequisite for data reuse.In the following section, we will address thoseaspects that are particularly relevant for these re-quirements and discuss their treatment in ANNIS.3 ANNIS3.1 Main FeaturesANNIS is a Java servlet application that can be ac-cessed via standard web browsers.
In its currentstate, it is not database-backed; data is read intomemory and exploited for querying and visualiza-tion in memory.3Data format and interoperability The datamodel must be suffiently expressive for captur-ing the data heterogeneity sketched above, includ-ing the representation of overlapping segments, in-tersecting hierarchies, and alternative annotations(e.g., for ambiguous annotations).
It should fur-ther facilitate the addition of new annotations.In our approach, we use a flexible standoffXML format, the SFB-standard interchange for-mat, as the interface format (Dipper, 2005).
In thisformat, primary data is stored in a file that option-ally specifies a header, followed by a tag <body>,which contains the source text.
The format makesuse of generic XML elements to encode data struc-tures and annotations: <mark> (markable) tagsspecify text positions or spans of text (or spans ofother markables) that can be annotated by linguis-tic information.
Trees and graphs are encoded by<struct> (structure) and <rel> (relation) el-ements, which specify local subtrees.
<feat>(feature) tags specify the information that is an-notated to markables or structures, which are re-ferred to by xlink attributes.
Each type of anno-tation is stored in a separate file, hence, competingor ambiguous annotations can be represented ina straightforward way: by distributing them overdifferent files.Our format allows us to represent differentkinds of annotations in a uniform way.
We pro-3For a more elaborate discussion of the basic concepts ofANNIS, see (Dipper et al, 2004).vide importers for the export format of the an-notation tools annotate, EXMARaLDA, RST Tool,and MMAX.
Our PCC corpus (see sec.
4) im-ports and synchronizes the following annotations,which have been annotated by these tools: syn-tax, information structure, rhetorical structure, andcoreference.Visualization Suitable means for visualizing in-formation is crucial for exploring and interpretinglinguistic data.
Due to the high degree of dataheterogeneity, special attention has been paid tothe support of visualizing various data structures.In addition, annotations may refer to segments ofdifferent sizes, e.g.
syntax vs. discourse structure.Furthermore, richness of information in multilevelannotations has to be taken into account; this re-quires a certain degree of user-adaptivity, allowingthe user to modify the way information of interestis displayed.In ANNIS, we start from a basic interactive tier-based view, which allows for a compact simulta-neous representation of many annotation types andwhose appearance can be modified by the user in aformat file.
In addition, a discourse view helps theuser to orient him/herself in the discourse.
Furtherviews can be added.Query support Among the numerous require-ments for a good query facility for multilevelannotation, expressiveness, efficiency, and user-friendly query-formulation appear to be the mostrelevant.
Even a very brief discussion of these is-sues would go beyond the limits of this paper, thereader is instead referred to (Heid et al, 2004).Currently, ANNIS uses a query language proto-type which allows the user to query text and anno-tations, by means of regular expressions and wild-cards, and various common relational operators(e.g.
for stating relations in tree structures, such asdominance or sibling relations).
However, the setfor querying sequential relations is not sufficientlyexpressive, and querying co-reference relations isnot supported yet.
Furthermore, user support forformulating queries is rather poor.3.2 Open IssuesData alignment Alignment of annotations cre-ated by different annotation tools appears to bemost suitable at the level of tokens.
However, toolsoften come with their own tokenizers and mis-matches do occur frequently.
We currently use a62Figure 1: The ANNIS user interface, displaying data from the PCCsimple script that checks for text and token iden-tity in the standoff files that we generate from theoutput of the individual tools.
However, all mis-matches have to be corrected manually.
At leastfor white-space differences, an automatic fixingprocedure should be feasible (similar to the oneimplemented by (Witt et al, 2005)).Efficient Querying Current querying is re-stricted to rather small amounts of data, and com-plex queries may take some time until finishing thesearch.Overlapping elements and intersecting hierar-chies The query language does not yet supportcomfortable searching for overlapping elements.However, exactly what kinds of queries on over-lapping segments or intersecting relations shouldbe supported is an open question.4 Use CasesWe illustrate the use of ANNIS in linguistic re-search, exemplified with research questions fromthree different linguistic areas.Historical investigations The project B4: Therole of information structure in the development ofword order regularities in Germanic investigatesthe verb-second phenomenon, which occurred incertain Germanic languages only (e.g., it did inModern German, but not in Modern English).
Oneof their findings is that verb placement in the OldHigh German translation of Tatian correlates withdiscourse relations: verb-initial sentences usuallyoccur in narrative contexts and signal continuationof the story.
In contrast, verb-second sentencesindicate subordinative relations (Hinterho?lzl andPetrova, 2005).Typological studies In the research project D2:Typology of Information Structure (cf., e.g.,(Go?tze et al, To appear)), a typological question-naire is designed, with which language data can beelicited using largely language-independent meth-ods.
Currently, data from 13 different languages iselicited and annotated with information from var-ious linguistic levels (morphosyntax, phonology,semantics, and information structure).An interesting query might look for nominalphrases (const=np) that are new in the discourse(given=new) and belong to the (information-) fo-cus of a sentence (focus=ans), e.g.
for inves-tigating the phonological realization of these.63The according query has the form: const=np &given=new & focus=ans & #1 = #2.4Queries in ANNIS can be restricted to subsetsof a corpus, by queries such as focus=ans &doc=*81-11*, which searches for all answer fociin the data that has been elicited by means of thetask 81-11 in the questionnaire, yielding matchingdata from all languages in our database.Discourse studies The Potsdam CommentaryCorpus, PCC (Stede, 2004), consists of 173 news-paper commentaries, annotated for morphosyn-tax, coreference, discourse structure accordingto Rhetorical Structure Theory, and informationstructure.A question of interest here is the information-structural pattern of sentences introducing dis-course segments that elaborate on another partof the discourse: elaboration & rel=satellite &(cat=vroot & aboutness-topic) & #1 > #2 &#2 = #3.
Another research issue is the relation-ship of coreference and discourse structure.
How-ever, querying for coreference relations is not sup-ported yet.5 Future WorkCurrently we are working on integrating a nativeXML database into our system.
To make process-ing more efficient, we are developing an internalinline representation of the standoff interchangeformat, encoding overlapping segments by meansof milestones or fragments (Barnard et al, 1995).Furthermore, the query language will be ex-tended to cover different kinds of queries on se-quential relations as well as coreference relations.Finally, we will add basic statistical means tothe query facility, which, e.g., can point to rareand, hence, potentially interesting feature combi-nations.6 DemoIn our demonstration of ANNIS, we will show ex-ample data from the PCC, Old High German, anddata elicited by the typological questionnaire.
Wethen illustrate by means of example queries howthe researchers make use of our database in theirdaily work, as described above.
This includes pre-senting the visualization and querying facilities ofANNIS.4The expression #n refers to the nth constraint stated inthe query; the binary operator = requires extensional iden-tity (Dipper et al, 2004).ReferencesDavid Barnard, Lou Burnard, Jean-Pierre Gaspart,Lynne A.
Price, C. M. Sperberg-McQueen, and Gio-vanni Batista Varile.
1995.
Hierarchical encod-ing of text: Technical problems and SGML solu-tions.
Text Encoding Initiative: Background andContext.
Special Issue of Computers and the Hu-manities, 29(211?231).Stefanie Dipper and Michael Go?tze.
2005.
Access-ing heterogeneous linguistic data ?
generic XML-based representation and flexible visualization.
InProceedings of the 2nd Language & TechnologyConference 2005.Stefanie Dipper, Michael Go?tze, Manfred Stede, andTillmann Wegst.
2004.
ANNIS: A linguisticdatabase for exploring information structure.
InShinichiro Ishihara, Michaela Schmitz, and AnneSchwarz, editors, Interdisciplinary Studies on Infor-mation Structure (ISIS), volume 1, pages 245?279.Universita?tsverlag Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany.Stefanie Dipper.
2005.
XML-based stand-off repre-sentation and exploitation of multi-level linguisticannotation.
In Proceedings of Berliner XML Tage2005 (BXML 2005), pages 39?50, Berlin, Germany.Michael Go?tze, Torsten Roloff, Stavros Skopeteas,and Ruben Stoel.
To appear.
Exploring a cross-linguistic production data corpus.
In Proceedings ofthe Sixth International Tbilisi Symposium on Lan-guage, Logic and Computation.
Batumi, Georgia.Ulrich Heid, Holger Voormann, Jan-Torsten Milde, Ul-rike Gut, Katrin Erk, and Sebastian Pado?.
2004.Querying both time-aligned and hierarchical corporawith NXT Search.
In Proceedings of the Forth In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2004), pages 1455?1458, Lisbon.Roland Hinterho?lzl and Svetlana Petrova.
2005.Rhetorical relations and verb placement in early ger-manic languages.
Evidence from the Old High Ger-man Tatian translation (9th century).
In M. Stede,C.
Chiarcos, M. Grabski, and L. Lagerwerf, edi-tors, Salience in Discourse.
Multidisciplinary Ap-proaches to Discourse, pages 71?79.Manfred Stede.
2004.
The Potsdam Commentary Cor-pus.
In Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Dis-course Annotation, pages 96?102, Barcelona.Andreas Witt, Daniela Goecke, Felix Sasaki, and Har-ald Lu?ngen.
2005.
Unification of XML documentswith concurrent markup.
Literary and LinguisticComputing, 20(1):103?116.64
