Tagging Portuguese with a Spanish Tagger Using CognatesJirka HanaDepartment of LinguisticsThe Ohio State Universityhana.1@osu.eduAnna FeldmanDepartment of LinguisticsThe Ohio State Universityafeldman@ling.osu.eduLuiz AmaralDepartment of Spanish and PortugueseThe Ohio State Universityamaral.1@osu.eduChris BrewDepartment of LinguisticsThe Ohio State Universitycbrew@acm.orgAbstractWe describe a knowledge and resourcelight system for an automatic morpholog-ical analysis and tagging of Brazilian Por-tuguese.1 We avoid the use of labor in-tensive resources; particularly, large anno-tated corpora and lexicons.
Instead, weuse (i) an annotated corpus of PeninsularSpanish, a language related to Portuguese,(ii) an unannotated corpus of Portuguese,(iii) a description of Portuguese morphol-ogy on the level of a basic grammar book.We extend the similar work that we havedone (Hana et al, 2004; Feldman et al,2006) by proposing an alternative algo-rithm for cognate transfer that effectivelyprojects the Spanish emission probabili-ties into Portuguese.
Our experiments useminimal new human effort and show 21%error reduction over even emissions on afine-grained tagset.1 IntroductionPart of speech (POS) tagging is an important stepin natural language processing.
Corpora that havebeen POS-tagged are very useful both for linguis-tic research, e.g.
finding instances or frequenciesof particular constructions (Meurers, 2004) and forfurther computational processing, such as syntac-tic parsing, speech recognition, stemming, word-sense disambiguation.
Morphological tagging isthe process of assigning POS, case, number, gen-der and other morphological information to eachword in a corpus.
Despite the importance of mor-phological tagging, there are many languages that1We thank the anonymous reviewers for their constructivecomments on an earlier version of the paper.lack annotated resources of this kind, mainly dueto the lack of training corpora which are usuallyrequired for applying standard statistical taggers.Applications of taggers include syntactic pars-ing, stemming, text-to-speech synthesis, word-sense disambiguation, information extraction.
Forsome of these getting all the tags right is inessen-tial, e.g.
the input to noun phrase chunking doesnot necessarily require high accuracy fine-grainedtag resolution.Cross-language information transfer is not new;however, most of the existing work relies on par-allel corpora (e.g.
Hwa et al, 2004; Yarowskyand Ngai, 2001) which are difficult to find, es-pecially for lesser studied languages.
In this pa-per, we describe a cross-language method that re-quires neither training data of the target languagenor bilingual lexicons or parallel corpora.
We re-port the results of the experiments done on Brazil-ian Portuguese and Peninsular Spanish, however,our system is not tied to these particular languages.The method is easily portable to other (inflected)languages.
Our method assumes that an anno-tated corpus exists for the source language (here,Spanish) and that a text book with basic linguis-tic facts about the source language is available(here, Portuguese).
We want to test the generalityand specificity of the method.
Can the systematiccommonalities and differences between two ge-netically related languages be exploited for cross-language applications?
Is the processing of Por-tuguese via Spanish different from the processingof Russian via Czech (Hana et al, 2004; Feldmanet al, 2006)?33Spanish Portuguese1.
sg.
canto canto2.
sg.
cantas cantas3.
sg.
canta canta1.
pl.
catamos cantamos2.
pl.
cantais cantais3.
pl.
cantan cantamTable 1: Verb conjugation present indicative: -arregular verb: cantar ?to sing?2 Brazilian Portuguese (BP)vs. Peninsular Spanish (PS)Portuguese and Spanish are both Romance lan-guages from the Iberian Peninsula, and sharemany morpho-syntactic characteristics.
Both lan-guages have a similar verb system with three mainconjugations (-ar, -er, -ir), nouns and adjectivesmay vary in number and gender, and adverbs areinvariable.
Both are pro-drop languages, they havea similar pronominal system, and certain phenom-ena, such as clitic climbing, are prevalent in bothlanguages.
They also allow rather free constituentorder; and in both cases there is considerable de-bate in the literature about the appropriate char-acterization of their predominant word order (thecandidates being SVO and VSO).Sometimes the languages exhibit near-completeparallelism in their morphological patterns, asshown in Table 1.The languages are also similar in their lexicon andsyntactic word order:(1) OsLosTheestudantesestudiantesstudentsja?yaalreadycomparamcompraronboughtoslosthelivros.libros.books[BP][PS]?The students have already bought thebooks.
?One of the main differences is the fact thatBrazilian Portuguese (BP) accepts object drop-ping, while Peninsular Spanish (PS) doesn?t.
Inaddition, subjects in BP tend to be overt while inPS they tend to be omitted.
(2) a.
A: O queWhatvoce?youfezdidcomwithothelivro?book?
[BP]A: ?What did you do with the book?
?B: EuIdeigaveparatoMaria.MaryB: ?I gave it to Mary.?b.
A: ?Que?Whathicistedidconwithelthelibro?book?
[PS]A: ?What did you do with the book?
?B: SeHer.datloit.accdigaveatoMar?
?a.Mary.B: ?I gave it to Mary.
?Notice also that in the Spanish example (2b) thedative pronoun se ?her?
is obligatory even whenthe prepositional phrase a Mar?
?a ?to Mary?
ispresent.3 Resources3.1 TagsetFor both Spanish and Portuguese, we used posi-tional tagsets developed on the basis of SpanishCLiC-TALP tagset (Torruella, 2002).
Every tag isa string of 11 symbols each corresponding to onemorphological category.
For example, the Por-tuguese word partires ?you leave?
is assigned thetag VM0S---2PI-, because it is a verb (V), main(M), gender is not applicable to this verb form (0),singular (S), case, possesor?s number and form arenot applicable to this category(-), 2nd person (2),present (P), indicative (I) and participle type is notapplicable (-).A comparison of the two tagsets is in Table 2.2When possible the Spanish and Portuguese tagsetsuse the same values, however some differences areunavoidable.
For instance, the pluperfect is a com-pound verb tense in Spanish, but a separate wordthat needs a tag of its own in Portuguese.
In ad-dition, we added a tag for ?treatment?
Portuguesepronouns.The Spanish tagset has 282 tags, while that forPortuguese has 259 tags.3.2 Training corporaSpanish training corpus.
The Spanish corpuswe use for training the transition probabilities aswell as for obtaining Spanish-Portuguese cognatepairs is a fragment (106,124 tokens, 18,629 types)of the Spanish section of CLiC-TALP (Torruella,2Notice that we have 6 possible values for the gender po-sition: M (masc.
), F (fem.
), N (neutr., for certain pronouns), C(common, either M or F), 0 (unspecified for this form withinthe category), - (the category does not distinguish gender)34No.
Description No.
of valuesSp Po1 POS 14 112 SubPOS ?
detailed POS 30 293 Gender 6 64 Number 5 55 Case 6 66 Possessor?s Number 4 47 Form 3 38 Person 5 59 Tense 7 910 Mood 8 911 Participle 3 3Table 2: Overview and comparison of the tagsets2002).
CLiC-TALP is a balanced corpus, contain-ing texts of various genres and styles.
We automat-ically translated the CLiC-TALP tagset into oursystem (see Sect.
3.1) for easier detailed evalua-tion and for comparison with our previous workthat used a similar approach for tagging (Hanaet al, 2004; Feldman et al, 2006).Raw Portuguese corpus.
For automatic lexi-con acquisition, we use NILC corpus,3 containing1.2M tokens.3.3 Evaluation corpusFor evaluation purposes, we selected and manuallyannotated a small portion (1,800 tokens) of NILCcorpus.4 Morphological AnalysisOur morphological analyzer (Hana, 2005) is anopen and modular system.
It allows us to com-bine modules with different levels of manual in-put ?
from a module using a small manually pro-vided lexicon, through a module using a large lex-icon automatically acquired from a raw corpus, toa guesser using a list of paradigms, as the onlyresource provided manually.
The general strat-egy is to run modules that make fewer errors andless overgenerate before modules that make moreerrors and overgenerate more.
This, for exam-ple, means that modules with manually createdresources are used before modules with resources3Nu?cleo Interdisciplinar de Lingu??
?stica Computacional;available at http://nilc.icmc.sc.usp.br/nilc/,we used the version with POS tags assigned by PALAVRAS.We ignored the POS tags.automatically acquired.
In the experiments below,we used the following modules ?
lookup in a listof (mainly) closed-class words, a paradigm-basedguesser and an automatically acquired lexicon.4.1 Portuguese closed class wordsWe created a list of the most common preposi-tions, conjunctions, and pronouns, and a numberof the most common irregular verbs.
The list con-tains about 460 items and it required about 6 hoursof work.
In general, the closed class words can bederived either from a reference grammar book, orcan be elicited from a native speaker.
This doesnot require native-speaker expertise or intensivelinguistic training.
The reason why the creationof such a list took 6 hours is that the words wereannotated with detailed morphological tags usedby our system.4.2 Portuguese paradigmsWe also created a list of morphological paradigms.Our database contains 38 paradigms.
We just en-coded basic facts about the Portuguese morphol-ogy from a standard grammar textbook (Cunhaand Cintra, 2001).
The paradigms include all threeregular verb conjugations (-ar, -er, -ir), the mostcommon adjective and nouns paradigms and a rulefor adverbs of manner that end with -mente (anal-ogous to the English -ly).
We ignore majority ofexceptions.
The creation of the paradigms tookabout 8 h of work.4.3 Lexicon AcquisitionThe morphological analyzer supports a module ormodules employing a lexicon containing informa-tion about lemmas, stems and paradigms.
There isalways the possibility to provide this informationmanually.
That, however, is very costly.
Instead,we created such a lexicon automatically.Usually, automatically acquired lexicons andsimilar systems are used as a backup for largehigh-precision high-cost manually created lexi-cons (e.g.
Mikheev, 1997; Hlava?c?ova?, 2001).
Suchsystems extrapolate the information about thewords known by the lexicon (e.g.
distributionalproperties of endings) to unknown words.
Sinceour approach is resource light, we do not have anysuch large lexicon to extrapolate from.The general idea of our system is very sim-ple.
The paradigm-based Guesser, provides all thepossible analyses of a word consistent with Por-tuguese paradigms.
Obviously, this approach mas-35sively overgenerates.
Part of the ambiguity is usu-ally real but most of it is spurious.
We use a largecorpus to weed the spurious analyses out of thereal ones.
In such corpus, open-class lemmas arelikely to occur in more than one form.
Therefore,if a lemma+paradigm candidate suggested by theGuesser occurs in other forms in other parts of thecorpus, it increases the likelihood that the candi-date is real and vice versa.
If we encounter theword cantamos ?we sing?
in a Portuguese corpus,using the information about the paradigms we cananalyze it in two ways, either as being a noun inthe plural with the ending -s, or as being a verb inthe 1st person plural with the ending -amos.
Basedon this single form we cannot say more.
Howeverif we also encounter the forms canto, canta, can-tam the verb analysis becomes much more prob-able; and therefore, it will be chosen for the lex-icon.
If the only forms that we encounter in ourPortuguese corpus were cantamos and (the non-existing) cantamo (such as the existing word ramoand ramos) then we would analyze it as a noun andnot as a verb.With such an approach, and assuming that thecorpus contains the forms of the verb matar ?tokill?, mato1sg matas2sg, mata3sg, etc., we wouldnot discover that there is also a noun mata ?forest?with a plural form matas ?
the set of the 2 nounforms is a proper subset of the verb forms.
A sim-ple solution is to consider not the number of formtypes covered in a corpus, but the coverage of thepossible forms of the particular paradigm.
How-ever this brings other problems (e.g.
it penalizesparadigms with large number of forms, paradigmswith some obsolete forms, etc.).
We combine bothof these measures in Hana (2005).Lexicon Acquisition consists of three steps:1.
A large raw corpus is analyzed with alexicon-less MA (an MA using a list ofmainly closed-class words and a paradigmbased guesser);2.
All possible hypothetical lexical entries overthese analyses are created.3.
Hypothetical entries are filtered with aim todiscard as many nonexisting entries as possi-ble, without discarding real entries.Obviously, morphological analysis based onsuch a lexicon still overgenerates, but it overgener-ates much less than if based on the endings alone.Lexicon no yesrecall 99.0 98.1avg ambig (tag/word) 4.3 3.5Tagging (cognates) ?
accuracy 79.1 82.1Table 3: Evaluation of Morphological analysisConsider for example, the form func?o?es ?func-tions?
of the feminine noun func?a?o.
The analyzerwithout a lexicon provides 11 analyses (6 lemmas,each with 1 to 3 tags); only one of them is cor-rect.
In contrast, the analyzer with an automati-cally acquired lexicon provides only two analyses:the correct one (noun fem.
pl.)
and an incorrectone (noun masc.
pl., note that POS and numberare still correct).
Of course, not all cases are sopersuasive.The evaluation of the system is in Table 3.
The98.1% recall is equivalent to the upper bound forthe task.
It is calculated assuming an oracle-Portuguese tagger that is always able to select thecorrect POS tag if it is in the set of options givenby the morphological analyzer.
Notice also thatfor the tagging accuracy, the drop of recall is lessimportant than the drop of ambiguity.5 TaggingWe used the TnT tagger (Brants, 2000), an im-plementation of the Viterbi algorithm for second-order Markov model.
In the traditional approach,we would train the tagger?s transitional and emis-sion probabilities on a large annotated corpus ofPortuguese.
However, our resource-light approachmeans that such corpus is not available to us andwe need to use different ways to obtain this infor-mation.We assume that syntactic properties of Spanishand Portuguese are similar enough to be able touse the transitional probabilities trained on Span-ish (after a simple tagset mapping).The situation with the lexical properties as cap-tured by emission probabilities is more complex.Below we present three different ways how to ob-tains emissions, assuming:1. they are the same: we use the Spanish emis-sions directly (?5.1).2. they are different: we ignore the Spanishemissions and instead uniformly distribute36the results of our morphological analyzer.(?5.2)3.
they are similar: we map the Spanish emis-sions onto the result of morphological analy-sis using automatically acquired cognates.
(?5.3)5.1 Tagging ?
BaselineOur lowerbound measurement consists of trainingthe TnT tagger on the Spanish corpus and apply-ing this model directly to Portuguese.4 The overallperformance of such a tagger is 56.8% (see the themin column in Table 4).
That means that half ofthe information needed for tagging of Portugueseis already provided by the Spanish model.
Thistagger has seen no Portuguese whatsoever, and isstill much better than nothing.5.2 Tagging ?
Approximating Emissions IThe opposite extreme to the baseline, is to assumethat Spanish emissions are useless for tagging Por-tuguese.
Instead we use the morphological an-alyzer to limit the number of possibilities, treat-ing them all equally ?
The emission probabilitieswould then form a uniform distribution of the tagsgiven by the analyzer.
The results are summarizedin Table 4 (the e-even column) ?
accuracy 77.2%on full tags, or 47% relative error reduction againstthe baseline.5.3 Tagging ?
Approximating Emissions IIAlthough it is true that forms and distributions ofPortuguese and Spanish words are not the same,they are also not completely unrelated.
As anySpanish speaker would agree, the knowledge ofSpanish words is useful when trying to understanda text in Portuguese.Many of the corresponding Portuguese andSpanish words are cognates, i.e.
historically theydescend from the same ancestor root or they aremere translations.
We assume two things: (i) cog-nate pairs have usually similar morphological anddistributional properties, (ii) cognate words aresimilar in form.Obviously both of these assumptions are ap-proximations:1.
Cognates could have departed in their mean-ings, and thus probably also have dif-4Before training, we translated the Spanish tagset into thePortuguese one.ferent distributions.
For example, Span-ish embarazada ?pregnant?
vs. Portugueseembarac?ada ?embarrassed?.2.
Cognates could have departed in their mor-phological properties.
For example, Span-ish cerca ?near?.adverb vs. Portuguese cerca?fence?.noun (from Latin circa, circus ?cir-cle?).3.
There are false cognates ?
unrelated,but similar or even identical words.
Forexample, Spanish salada ?salty?.adj vs. Por-tuguese salada ?salad?.noun, Spanish doce?twelve?.numeral vs. Portuguese doce?candy?.nounNevertheless, we believe that these examplesare true exceptions from the rule and that in major-ity of cases, the cognates would look and behavesimilarly.
The borrowings, counter-borrowingsand parallel developments of the various Romancelanguages have of course been extensively studied,and we have no space for a detailed discussion.Identifying cognates.
For the present work,however, we do not assume access to philologi-cal erudition, or to accurate Spanish-Portuguesetranslations or even a sentence-aligned corpus.
Allof these are resources that we could not expect toobtain in a resource poor setting.
In the absenceof this knowledge, we automatically identify cog-nates, using the edit distance measure (normalizedby word length).Unlike in the standard edit distance, the cost ofoperations is dependent on the arguments.
Simi-larly as Yarowsky and Wicentowski (2000), we as-sume that, in any language, vowels are more muta-ble in inflection than consonants, thus for examplereplacing a for i is cheaper that replacing s by r.In addition, costs are refined based on some wellknown and common phonetic-orthographic regu-larities, e.g.
replacing a q with c is less costly thanreplacing m with, say s. However, we do not wantto do a detailed contrastive morpho-phonologicalanalysis, since we want our system to be portableto other languages.
So, some facts from a simplegrammar reference book should be enough.Using cognates.
Having a list of Spanish-Portuguese cognate pairs, we can use these tomap the emission probabilities acquired on Span-ish corpus to Portuguese.37Let?s assume Spanish word ws and Portugueseword wp are cognates.
Let Ts denote the tags thatws occurs within the Spanish corpus, and let ps(t)be the emission probability of a tag t (t 6?
Ts ?ps(t) = 0).
Let Tp denote tags assigned to thePortuguese word wp by our morphological ana-lyzer, and the pp(t) is the even emission proba-bility: pp(t) = 1|Tp| .
Then we can assign the newemission probability p?p(t) to every tag t ?
Tp inthe following way (followed by normalization):p?p(t) =ps(t) + pp(t)2(1)Results.
This method provides the best results.The full-tag accuracy is 82.1%, compared to56.9% for baseline (58% error rate reduction) and77.2% for even-emissions (21% reduction).
Theaccuracy for POS is 87.6%.
Detailed results are incolumn e-cognates of Table 4.6 Evaluation & ComparisonThe best way to evaluate our results would be tocompare it against the TnT tagger used the usualway ?
trained on Portuguese and applied on Por-tuguese.
We do not have access to a large Por-tuguese corpus annotated with detailed tags.
How-ever, we believe that Spanish and Portuguese aresimilar enough (see Sect.
2) to justify our assump-tion that the TnT tagger would be equally success-ful (or unsuccessful) on them.
The accuracy ofTnT trained on 90K tokens of the CLiC-TALP cor-pus is 94.2% (tested on 16K tokens).
The accuracyof our best tagger is 82.1%.
Thus the error-rate ismore than 3 times bigger (17.9% vs. 5.4%).Branco and Silva (2003) report 97.2% taggingaccuracy on 23K testing corpus.
This is clearlybetter than our results, on the other hand theyneeded a large Portuguese corpus of 207K tokens.The details of the tagset used in the experimentsare not provided, so precise comparison with ourresults is difficult.7 Related workPrevious research in resource-light languagelearning has defined resource-light in differentways.
Some have assumed only partially taggedtraining corpora (Merialdo, 1994); some have be-gun with small tagged seed wordlists (Cucerzanand Yarowsky, 1999) for named-entity tagging,while others have exploited the automatic trans-fer of an already existing annotated resource in amin e-even e-cognatesTag: 56.9 77.2 82.1POS: 65.3 84.2 87.6SubPOS: 61.7 83.3 86.9gender: 70.4 87.3 90.2number: 78.3 95.3 96.0case: 93.8 96.8 97.2possessor?s num: 85.4 96.7 97.0form: 92.9 99.2 99.2person: 74.5 91.2 92.7tense: 90.7 95.1 96.1mood: 91.5 95.0 96.0participle: 99.9 100.0 100.0Table 4: Tagging Brazilian Portuguesedifferent genres or a different language (e.g.
cross-language projection of morphological and syn-tactic information in (Yarowsky et al, 2001;Yarowsky and Ngai, 2001), requiring no direct su-pervision in the target language).Ngai and Yarowsky (2000) observe that the to-tal weighted human and resource costs is the mostpractical measure of the degree of supervision.Cucerzan and Yarowsky (2002) observe that an-other useful measure of minimal supervision is theadditional cost of obtaining a desired functional-ity from existing commonly available knowledgesources.
They note that for a remarkably widerange of languages, there exist a plenty of refer-ence grammar books and dictionaries which is aninvaluable linguistic resource.7.1 Resource-light approaches to RomancelanguagesCucerzan and Yarowsky (2002) present a methodfor bootstrapping a fine-grained, broad coveragePOS tagger in a new language using only oneperson-day of data acquisition effort.
Similarlyto us, they use a basic library reference gram-mar book, and access to an existing monolingualtext corpus in the language, but they also use amedium-sized bilingual dictionary.In our work, we use a paradigm-based mor-phology, including only the basic paradigms froma standard grammar textbook.
Cucerzan andYarowsky (2002) create a dictionary of regular in-flectional affix changes and their associated POSand on the basis of it, generate hypothesized in-flected forms following the regular paradigms.38Clearly, these hypothesized forms are inaccurateand overgenerated.
Therefore, the authors performa probabilistic match from all lexical tokens actu-ally observed in a monolingual corpus and the hy-pothesized forms.
They combine these two mod-els, a model created on the basis of dictionary in-formation and the one produced by the morpho-logical analysis.
This approach relies heavily ontwo assumptions: (i) words of the same POS tendto have similar tag sequence behavior; and (ii)there are sufficient instances of each POS tag la-beled by either the morphology models or closed-class entries.
For richly inflectional languages,however, there is no guarantee that the latter as-sumption would always hold.The accuracy of their model is comparable toours.
On a fine-grained (up to 5-feature) POSspace, they achieve 86.5% for Spanish and 75.5%for Romanian.
With a tagset of a similar size (11features) we obtain the accuracy of 82.1% for Por-tuguese.Carreras et al (2003) present work on develop-ing low-cost Named Entity recognizers (NER) fora language with no available annotated resources,using as a starting point existing resources for asimilar language.
They devise and evaluate severalstrategies to build a Catalan NER system usingonly annotated Spanish data and unlabeled Cata-lan text, and compare their approach with a classi-cal bootstrapping setting where a small initial cor-pus in the target language is hand tagged.
It turnsout that the hand translation of a Spanish model isbetter than a model directly learned from a smallhand annotated training corpus of Catalan.
Thebest result is achieved using cross-linguistic fea-tures.
Solorio and Lo?pez (2005) follow their ap-proach; however, they apply the NER system forSpanish directly to Portuguese and train a classi-fier using the output and the real classes.7.2 CognatesMann and Yarowsky (2001) present a method forinducing translation lexicons based on trasductionmodules of cognate pairs via bridge languages.Bilingual lexicons within language families are in-duced using probabilistic string edit distance mod-els.
Translation lexicons for abitrary distant lan-guage pairs are then generated by a combinationof these intra-family translation models and oneor more cross-family online dictionaries.
Simi-larly to Mann and Yarowsky (2001), we show thatlanguages are often close enough to others withintheir language family so that cognate pairs be-tween the two are common, and significant por-tions of the translation lexicon can be induced withhigh accuracy where no bilingual dictionary orparallel corpora may exist.8 ConclusionWe have shown that a tagging system with a smallamount of manually created resources can be suc-cessful.
We have previously shown that this ap-proach can work for Czech and Russian (Hanaet al, 2004; Feldman et al, 2006).
Here we haveshown its applicability to a new language pair.This can be done in a fraction of the time neededfor systems with extensive manually created re-sources: days instead of years.
Three resourcesare required: (i) a reference grammar (for infor-mation about paradigms and closed class words);(ii) a large amount of text (for learning a lexicon;e.g.
newspapers from the internet); (iii) a limitedaccess to a native speaker ?
reference grammarsare often too vague and a quick glance at resultscan provide feedback leading to a significant in-crease of accuracy; however both of these requireonly limited linguistic knowledge.In this paper we proposed an algorithm for cog-nate transfer that effectively projects the sourcelanguage emission probabilities into the target lan-guage.
Our experiments use minimal new humaneffort and show 21% error reduction over evenemissions on a fine-grained tagset.In the near future, we plan to compare the ef-fectiveness (time and price) of our approach withthat of the standard resource-intensive approach toannotating a medium-size corpus (on a corpus ofaround 100K tokens).
A resource-intensive sys-tem will be more accurate in the labels which it of-fers to the annotator, so annotator can work faster(there are fewer choices to make, fewer keystrokesrequired).
On the other hand, creation of the in-frastructure for such a system is very time con-suming and may not be justified by the intendedapplication.The experiments that we are running right noware supposed to answer the question of whethertraining the system on a small corpus of a closelyrelated language is better than training on a largercorpus of a less related language.
Some prelim-inary results (Feldman et al, 2006) suggest thatusing cross-linguistic features leads to higher pre-39cision, especially for the source languages whichhave target-like properties complementary to eachother.9 AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Maria das Grac?asVolpe Nunes, Sandra Maria Alu?
?sio, and RicardoHasegawa for giving us access to the NILC cor-pus annotated with PALAVRAS and to CarlosRodr?
?guez Penagos for letting us use the Spanishpart of the CLiC-TALP corpus.ReferencesBranco, A. and J. Silva (2003).
Portuguese-specific Issues in the Rapid Development ofState-of-the-art Taggers.
In Workshop on Tag-ging and Shallow Processing of Portuguese:TASHA?2000.Brants, T. (2000).
TnT ?
A Statistical Part-of-Speech Tagger.
In Proceedings of ANLP-NAACL, pp.
224?231.Carreras, X., L. Ma`rquez, and L. Padro?
(2003).Named Entity Recognition for Catalan UsingOnly Spanish Resources and Unlabelled Data.In Proceedings of EACL-2003.Cucerzan, S. and D. Yarowsky (1999).
Lan-guage Independent Named Entity RecognitionCombining Morphological and Contextual Ev-idence.
In Proceedings of the 1999 Joint SIG-DAT Conference on EMNLP and VLC, pp.
90?99.Cucerzan, S. and D. Yarowsky (2002).
Boot-strapping a Multilingual Part-of-speech Taggerin One Person-day.
In Proceedings of CoNLL2002, pp.
132?138.Cunha, C. and L. F. L. Cintra (2001).
NovaGrama?tica do Portugue?s Contempora?neo.
Riode Janeiro, Brazil: Nova Fronteira.Feldman, A., J. Hana, and C. Brew (2006).
Experi-ments in Morphological Annotation Transfer.
InProceedings of Computational Linguistics andIntelligent Text Processing (CICLing).Hana, J.
(2005).
Knowledge and labor light mor-phological analysis.
Unpublished manuscript.Hana, J., A. Feldman, and C. Brew (2004).
AResource-light Approach to Russian Morphol-ogy: Tagging Russian using Czech resources.In Proceedings of EMNLP 2004, Barcelona,Spain.Hlava?c?ova?, J.
(2001).
Morphological Guesseror Czech Words.
In V. Matous?ek (Ed.
), Text,Speech and Dialogue, Lecture Notes in Com-puter Science, pp.
70?75.
Berlin: Springer-Verlag.Hwa, R., P. Resnik, A. Weinberg, C. Cabezas,and O. Kolak (2004).
Bootstrapping Parsers viaSyntactic Projection across Parallel Texts.
Nat-ural Language Engineering 1(1), 1?15.Mann, G. S. and D. Yarowsky (2001).
MultipathTranslation Lexicon via Bridge Languages.
InProceedings of NAACL 2001.Merialdo, B.
(1994).
Tagging English Text witha Probabilistic Model.
Computational Linguis-tics 20(2), 155?172.Meurers, D. (2004).
On the Use of Electronic Cor-pora for Theoretical Linguistics.
Case Studiesfrom the Syntax of German.
Lingua.Mikheev, A.
(1997).
Automatic Rule Inductionfor Unknown Word Guessing.
ComputationalLinguistics 23(3), 405?423.Ngai, G. and D. Yarowsky (2000).
Rule Writing orAnnotation: Cost-efficient Resource Usage forBase Noun Phrase Chunking.
In Proceedings ofthe 38th Meeting of ACL, pp.
117?125.Solorio, T. and A. L. Lo?pez (2005).
Learningnamed entity recognition in Portuguese fromSpanish.
In Proceedings of Computational Lin-guistics and Intelligent Text Processing (CI-CLing).Torruella, M. (2002).
Gu?
?a para la anotacio?n mor-folo?gica del corpus CLiC-TALP (Versio?n 3).Technical Report WP-00/06, X-Tract WorkingPaper.Yarowsky, D. and G. Ngai (2001).
Inducing Mul-tilingual POS Taggers and NP Bracketers viaRobust Projection Across Aligned Corpora.
InProceedings of NAACL-2001, pp.
200?207.Yarowsky, D., G. Ngai, and R. Wicentowski(2001).
Inducing Multilingual Text Analy-sis Tools via Robust Projection across AlignedCorpora.
In Proceedings of HLT 2001, FirstInternational Conference on Human LanguageTechnology Research.Yarowsky, D. and R. Wicentowski (2000).
Min-imally supervised morphological analysis bymultimodal alignment.
In Proceedings of the38th Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pp.
207?216.40
