Proceedings of the Fourth International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 55?62,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsOverspecified reference in hierarchical domains:measuring the benefits for readersIvandre?
ParaboniUniversity of Sao PauloEACH - Av.Arlindo Bettio, 100003828-000 Sao Paulo, Brazilivandre@usp.brJudith MasthoffUniversity of AberdeenDep.of Computing ScienceAberdeen AB24 3UE, Scotland, UKjmasthoff@csd.abdn.ac.ukKees van DeemterUniversity of AberdeenDep.of Computing ScienceAberdeen AB24 3UE, Scotland, UKkvdeemte@csd.abdn.ac.ukAbstractIt is often desirable that referring expres-sions be chosen in such a way that theirreferents are easy to identify.
In this paper,we investigate to what extent identificationbecomes easier by the addition of logicallyredundant properties.We focus on hierar-chically structured domains, whose con-tent is not fully known to the reader whenthe referring expression is uttered.IntroductionCommon sense suggests that speakers and writ-ers who want to get their message across shouldmake their utterances easy to understand.
Broadlyspeaking, this view is confirmed by empiricalresearch (Deutsch 1976, Mangold 1986, Levelt1989, Sonnenschein 1984, Clark 1992, Cremers1996, Arts 2004, Paraboni and van Deemter 2002,van der Sluis, 2005).
The present paper follows inthe footsteps of Paraboni and van Deemter (2002)by focussing on hierarchically structured domainsand asking whether any benefits are obtained whenan algorithm for the generation of referring ex-pressions (GRE) builds logical redundancy into thedescriptions that it generates.
Where Paraboni andvan Deemter (2002) reported on the results of asimple experiment in which subjects were askedto say which description they preferred in a givencontext, the present paper describes a much moreelaborate experiment, measuring how difficult it isfor subjects to find the referent of a description.1 BackgroundLet us distinguish between two aspects of the ?un-derstanding?
of a referring expression, which weshall denote by the terms interpretation and reso-lution.
We take interpretation to be the processwhereby a hearer/reader determines the meaningor logical form of the referring expression; we takeresolution to be the identification of the referent ofthe expression once its meaning has been deter-mined.
It is resolution that will take centerstage inour investigation.Difficulty of resolution and interpretation do notalways go hand in hand.
Consider sentences (1a)and (1b), uttered somewhere in Brighton but noton Lewes Road.
(1a) 968 Lewes Road(1b) number 968Assume that (1a) refers uniquely.
If other streetsin Brighton do not have numbers above 900, theneven (1b) is a unique description ?
but a prettyuseless one, since it does not help you to find thehouse unless your knowledge of Brighton is ex-ceptional.
The description in (1a) is longer (andmight therefore take more time to read and in-terpret) than (1b), but the additional material in(1a) makes resolution easier once interpretation issuccessfully completed.
We explore how an GREprogram should make use of logically redundantproperties so as to simplify resolution (i.e., theidentification of the referent).In corpus-based studies, it has been shown thatlogically redundant properties tend to be includedwhen they fulfill one of a number of pragmaticfunctions, such as to indicate that a property is ofparticular importance to the speaker, or to high-light the speaker?s awareness that the referent hasthe property in question (Jordan 2000).
However,redundancy has been built into GRE algorithms55only to a very limited extent.
Perhaps the most in-teresting account of overspecification so far is theone proposed by Horacek (2005), where logicallyredundant properties enter the descriptions gener-ated when the combined certainty of other prop-erties falls short of what is contextually required.Uncertainty can arise, for example, if the hearerdoes not know about a property, or if she does notknow whether it applies to the target referent.Our own work explores the need for overspecifi-cation in situations where each of the propertiesin question is unproblematic (i.e., certain) in prin-ciple, but where the reader has to make an effortto discover their extension (i.e., what objects aretruthfully described by the property).
We ask howa generator can use logically redundant informa-tion to reduce the search space within which areader has to ?find?
a referent.
(Cf., Edmonds 1994for a related set of problems.
)2 Hierarchical domainsExisting work on GRE tends to focus on fairlysimple domains, dominated by one-place proper-ties.
When relations (i.e., two-place properties)are taken into account at all (e.g., Dale and Had-dock 1991, Krahmer and Theune 2002), the mo-tivating examples are kept so small that it is rea-sonable to assume that speaker and hearer knowall the relevant facts in advance.
Consequently,search is not much of an issue (i.e., resolution iseasy): the hearer can identify the referent by sim-ply intersecting the denotations of the propertiesin the description.
While such simplifications per-mit the study of many aspects of reference, otheraspects come to the fore when larger domains areconsidered.Interesting questions arise, for example, when alarge domain is hierarchically ordered.
We con-sider a domain to be hierarchically ordered if itsinhabitants can be structured like a tree in whicheverything that belongs to a given node n be-long to at most one of n?s children, while every-thing that belongs to one of n?s children belongsto n. Examples include countries divided intoprovinces which, in turn, may be divided into re-gions, etc.
; years into months then into weeksand then into days; documents into chapters thensections then subsections; buildings into floorsthen rooms.
Clearly, hierarchies are among ourfavourite ways of structuring the world.A crucial question, in all such cases, is whatknowledge is shared between speaker and hearerat utterance time.
It will be convenient to start byfocussing on the extreme case where, before thestart of resolution, knows nothing about the do-main.
When the utterance is made, the hearer?sblindfold is removed, so to speak, and resolutioncan start.
No similar assumption about the speakeris made: we assume that the speaker knows every-thing about the domain, and that he knows that thehearer can achieve the same knowledge.
Many ofour examples will be drawn from a simple modelof a University campus, structured into buildingsand rooms; the intended referent will often be alibrary located in one of the rooms.
The locationof the library is not known to the hearer, but it isknown to the speaker.
Each domain entity r will be(d)libraryWatts building                                                        Cockcroft buildingroom100       ...       room120     ...        room140  room100       ...       room110     ...        room120University of BrightonFigure 1: A hierarchically structured domain.associated with a TYPE (e.g., the type ?room?
), andwith some additional attributes such as its ROOMNUMBER or NAME, and we will assume that it isalways possible to distinguish r from its siblingsin the tree structure by using one or more of theseproperties.
(For example, ?R.NUMBER=102?
iden-tifies a room uniquely within a given building) 1.3 Obstacles for resolutionGenerating a uniquely referring expression is notalways enough, because such an expression canleave the hearer with an unnecessarily large searchspace.
But the issue is an even starker one, es-pecially when the locations of speaker and hearerare taken into account.
(For simplicity, we assumethat the locations coincide.
)Suppose a hierarchically-ordered domain D con-tains only one entity whose TYPE is LIBRARY.Consider the following noun phrases, uttered inthe position marked by d in Figure 1.
(The firstthree have the same intended referent.
)1This is a useful assumption, since the existence of a dis-tinguishing description cannot be otherwise guaranteed.56(2a) the library, in room 120 in the Cockcroft bld.
(2b) the library, in room 120(2c) the library(2d) room 120Utterances like (2a) and (2b) make use of the hi-erarchical structure of the domain.
Their contentcan be modelled as a listL = ?
(x1, P1), (x2, P2)...(xn, Pn)?,where x1 = r is the referent of the referring ex-pression and, for every j > 1, xj is an ances-tor (not necessarily the parent) of xj?1 in D. Forevery j, Pj is a set of properties that jointly iden-tify xj within xj+1 or, if j = n, within the wholedomain.
For example, (2a) is modelled asL = ?
(r, {type = library}),(x2, {type = room, r.number = 120}),(x3, {type = building,name = Cockcroft})?We focus on the search for xn because, under theassumptions that were just made this is the onlyplace where problems can occur (since no parentnode is available).Even though each of (2a)-(2d) succeeds in char-acterising their intended referent uniquely, someof these descriptions can be problematic for thehearer.
One such problem occurs in (2d).
Theexpression is logically sufficient.
But, intuitivelyspeaking, the expression creates an expectationthat the referent may be found nearby, within theWatts building whereas, in fact, a match can onlybe found in another building.
In this case we willspeak of Lack of Orientation (LO).Even more confusion might occur if another li-brary was added to our example, e.g., in Watts 110,while the intended referent was kept constant.
Inthis case, (2c) would fail to identify the referent, ofcourse.
The expression (2b), however, would suc-ceed, by mutually using two parts of the descrip-tion (?the library?
and ?room 120?)
to identify an-other: there are two libraries, and two rooms num-bered 120, but there is only one pair (a, b) suchthat a is a library and b is a room numbered 120,while a is located in b.
Such cases of mutual iden-tification are unproblematic in small, transparent,domains where search is not an issue, but in largehierarchical domains, they are not.
For, like (2d),(2b) would force a reader to search through an un-necessarily large part of the domain; worse even,the search ?path?
that the reader is likely to followleads via an obstacle, namely room 120 Watts, thatmatches a part of the description, while not beingthe intended referent of the relevant part of the de-scription (i.e., room 120 Cockcroft).
Confusioncould easily result.
In cases like this, we speak ofa Dead End (DE).In section 5 we will present evidence suggestingthat instances of Dead End and Lack of Orienta-tion may disrupt search in a sufficiently large orcomplex domain.
For a theoretical discussion werefer to Paraboni and van Deemter (2002).4 Generation algorithmsWhat kinds of expression would existing GRE al-gorithms produce in the situations of interest?Since hierarchies involve relations, the first al-gorithm that comes to mind is the one pro-posed by Dale and Haddock (1991).
Essen-tially, this algorithm combines one- and two-place predicates, until a combination is found thatpins down the target referent.
A standard ex-ample involves a domain containing two tablesand two bowls, while only one of the two tableshas a bowl on it.
In this situation, the combi-nation {bowl(x), on(x, y), table(y)} identifies x(and, incidentally, also y) uniquely, since only onevalue of x can be used to verify the three pred-icates; this justifies the description ?the bowl onthe table?.
This situation can be ?translated?
di-rectly into our university domain.
Consider Fig-ure 2, with one additional library in room 110of the Watts building.
In this situation, the com-University of Brightonroom100       ...       room110     ...        room120   room100       ...       room120     ...        room140Watts building                                                        Cockcroft buildinglibrary(d)libraryFigure 2: A university campus with two libraries.bination {library(x), in(x, y), room(y), room ?number(y) = 2} identifies x (and, incidentally,also y) uniquely, because no other library is lo-cated in a room with number 120 (and no otherroom numbered 120 contains a library).
Thus, thestandard approach to relational descriptions allowsprecisely the kinds of situation that we have de-scribed as DE.
Henceforth, we shall describe this57as the Minimal Description (MD) approach to ref-erence because, in the situations of interest, it usesthe minimum number of properties by which thereferent can be distinguished.Paraboni and van Deemter (2002) have sketchedtwo GRE algorithms, both of which are guaran-teed to prevent DE and LO by including logi-cally redundant information into the generated de-scriptions so as to reduce the reader?s search space.These algorithms, called Full Inclusion (FI) andScope-Limited (SL), are not the only ways inwhich resolution may be aided, but we will see thatthey represent two natural options.
Both take asinput a hierarchical domain D, a location d wherethe referring expression will materialise, and anintended referent r.Briefly, the FI algorithm represents a straightfor-ward way of reducing the length of search paths,without particular attention to DE or LO.
It linesup properties that identify the referent uniquelywithin its parent node, then moves up to identifythis parent node within its parent node, and so onuntil reaching a subtree that includes the startingpoint d 2.
Applied to our earlier example of a ref-erence to room 120, FI first builds up the listL = ?
(r, {type = room, r.number = 120})?,then expands it toL = ?
(r, {type = room, r.number = 120}),(x1, {type = building,buildingname = Cockcroft})?.Now that Parent(X) includes d , r has been iden-tified uniquely within D and we reach STOP.
Lmight be realised as e.g., ?room 120 in Cockcroft?.FI gives maximal weight to ease of resolution.But something has to give, and that is brevity:By conveying logical redundancy, descriptions arelengthened, and this can have drawbacks.
Thesecond algorithm in Paraboni and van Deemter(2002), called SCOPE-LIMITED (SL), constitutesa compromise between brevity and ease of resolu-tion.
SL prevents DE and LO but opts for brevitywhen DE and LO do not occur.
This is doneby making use of the notion of SCOPE, hence thename of the algorithm.2The idea behind not moving up beyond this subtree isa natural extension of Krahmer and Theune?s treatment ofsalience in GRE: see Paraboni and van Deemter (2002).The difference between FI and SL becomes ev-ident when we consider a case in which the min-imally distinguishing description does not lead toDE or LO.
For example, a reference to r = li-brary would be realised by FI as ?the library inroom 120 in Cockcroft?.
By using SL, however,the same description would be realised by the SLalgorithm simply as ?the library?, since there is norisk of DE or LO.
With the addition of a secondlibrary in the Watts building, the behaviour of theSL algorithm would change accordingly, produc-ing ?the library in Cockcroft?.
Similarly, had weinstead included the second library under anotherroom of Cockcroft, SL would describe r as ?the li-brary in room 120 of Cockcroft?, just like FI .
Fordetails of both algorithms we refer to Paraboni andvan Deemter (2002).5 The new experimentIn Paraboni and van Deemter (2002) an experi-ment was described to find out what types of ref-erences are favoured by human judges when theiropinion about these references is asked.
As anexample of a hierarchically ordered domain, theexperiment made use of a document structured insections and subsections.
This allowed Paraboniand van Deemter (2002) to show their subjects thedomain itself, rather than, for example, a pictorialrepresentation (as it would be necessary in mostother cases such as that of a University campus,which motivated many of our examples so far).The experiment investigated the choice of so-called document-deictic references, such as ?thepicture in part x of section y?
made by authors ofdocuments to check whether they choose to avoidpotential DE and LO situations by adding redun-dant properties (favouring ease of resolution) and,conversely, whether they choose shorter descrip-tions when there is no such risk (favouring easeof interpretation).
The results suggested that hu-man authors often prefer logically redundant ref-erences, particularly when DE and LO can arise.While this approach had the advantage that sub-jects could compare different expressions (per-haps balancing ease of interpretation with easeof resolution), the method is limited in other re-spects.
For example, meta-linguistic judgementsare sometimes thought to be an unreliable pre-dictor of people?s linguistic behaviour (e.g., vanDeemter 2004).
Perhaps more seriously, the ex-58periment fails to tell us how difficult a given typeof reference (for example, one of the DE type)would actually be for a reader.
Therefore, in thispaper we report on a second experiment investigat-ing the effect of the presence or absence of logicalredundancy on the performance of readers.
We areprimarily interested in understanding the searchprocess, so resolution rather than interpretation.5.1 Experiment designSubjects: Forty-two computing science studentsparticipated in the experiment, as part of a sched-uled practical.Procedure: A within-subjects design was used.Each subject was shown twenty on-line docu-ments, in a random order.
The entire documentstructure was always visible, and so was the con-tent of the current document part.
A screenshot ofan example document providing this level of infor-mation is shown in Figure 3.
Each document wasFigure 3: Fragment of the experiment interface.initially opened in Part B of either Section 2 or3, where a task was given of the form ?Let?s talkabout [topic].
Please click on [referring expres-sion]?
.
For instance ?Let?s talk about elephants.Please click on picture 5 in part A?.
Subjectscould navigate through the document by clickingon the names of the parts (e.g.
Part A as visi-ble under Section 3).
As soon as the subject hadcorrectly clicked on the picture indicated, the nextdocument was presented.
Subjects were remindedthroughout the document about the task to be ac-complished, and the location at which the taskwas given.
All navigation actions were recorded.At the start of the experiment, subjects were in-structed to try to accomplish the task with a mini-mal number of navigation actions.We assume that readers do not have completeknowledge of the domain.
So, they do not knowwhich pictures are present in each part of each sec-tion.
If readers had complete knowledge, then aminimal description would suffice.
We do, how-ever, not assume readers to be completely ignoranteither3: we allowed them to see the current doc-ument part (where the question is asked) and itscontent, as well as the hierarchical structure (sec-tions and parts) of the remainder of the documentas in Figure 3 above.Research Questions: We want to test whetherlonger descriptions indeed help resolution, partic-ularly in so-called problematic situations.
Table 1shows the types of situation (potential DE, LO,and non-problematic)4 , reader and referent loca-tion, and descriptions used.Hypothesis 1: In a problematic (DE/LO) situ-ation, the number of navigation actions requiredfor a long (FI /SL) description is smaller thanthat required for a short (MD) description.We will use the DE and LO situations in Ta-ble 1 to test this hypothesis, comparing for eachsituation the number of navigation actions of theshort, that is, minimally distinguishing (MD) andlong (FI/SL) expressions.
In Paraboni and vanDeemter (2002) there was an additional hypothe-sis about non-problematic situations, stating thatMD descriptions would be preferred to long de-scriptions in non-problematic situations.
We can-not use this hypothesis in this experiment, as it ishighly unlikely that a shorter description will leadto fewer navigation actions.
(Note that the experi-ment in Paraboni and van Deemter (2002) lookedat the combination of interpretation and resolution,while we are now focussing on resolution only).Instead, we will look at gain: the number of navi-gation actions required for a short description mi-nus the number required for a long description.3Readers will always have some knowledge: if in Part Bof Section 2, then they would know (by convention) that therewill also be a Section 1, and a Part A in Section 2 etc.4In DE situations, there is another picture with the samenumber as the referent, but not in a part with the same nameas the part in which the referent is.
In LO situations, thereis no other picture with the same number as the referent, andthe reader location contains pictures.
In non-problematic sit-uations, there is another picture with the same number as thereferent, but not in a part with the same name as the part inwhich the referent is.59Sit.
Type Reader Loc.
Referent Loc.
Short (MD) Long (FI/SL) Long (other)1 DE Part B Sec 3 Part A Sec 2 Pic 3 in Part A Pic 3 in Part A Sec 22 DE Part B Sec 2 Part C Sec 3 Pic 4 in Part C Pic 4 in Part C Sec 33 LO Part B Sec 3 Part A Sec 3 Pic 5 Pic 5 in Part A Pic 5 in Part A Sec 34 LO Part B Sec 2 Part C Sec 2 Pic 4 Pic 4 in Part C Pic 4 in Part C Sec 25 LO Part B Sec 3 Part A Sec 4 Pic 5 Pic 5 in Part A Sec 4 Pic 5 in Part A6 LO Part B Sec 2 Part C Sec 1 Pic 4 Pic 4 in Part C Sec 1 Pic 4 in Part C7 NONE Part B Sec 2 Part A Sec 2 Pic 3 in Part A Pic 3 in Part A Sec 28 NONE Part B Sec 3 Part C Sec 3 Pic 4 in Part C Pic 4 in Part C Sec 3Table 1: Situations of referenceHypothesis 2: The gain achieved by a longdescription over an MD description will belarger in a problematic situation than in a non-problematic situation.We will use the DE and non-problematic situa-tions in Table 1 to test this hypothesis, comparingthe gain of situation 1 with that of situation 7, andthe gain of situation 2 with that of situation 8.Longer descriptions may always lead to fewer nav-igation actions, and it can be expected that com-plete descriptions of the form picture x in Part y ofSection z will outperform shorter descriptions inany situation.
So, from a resolution point of view,an algorithm that would always give a completedescription may produce better results than the al-gorithms we proposed, which do not always givecomplete descriptions (e.g.
situation 3 in Table 1).The aim of our algorithms is to make the descrip-tions complete enough to prevent DE and LO inresolution, but not overly redundant as this mayaffect interpretation.
We would like to show thatthe decisions taken by FI and SL are sensible, i.e.that they produce descriptions that are neither tooshort nor too long.
Therefore:S1: We want to consider situations in which FIand SL have produced an incomplete descrip-tion, and investigate how much gain could havebeen made by using a complete description inthose cases.
We would like this gain to be negli-gible.
We will use situations 3 and 4 for this, cal-culating the gain of the long, complete descrip-tions (namely, long (other) in Table 1) over theshort, incomplete descriptions generated by ouralgorithms (long (FI /SL) in Table 1).S2: We want to consider situations in which FIand SL have produced a complete description,and investigate how much gain has been made byusing this compared to a less complete descrip-tion that is still more complete than MD.
Wewould like this gain to be large.
We will use situ-ations 5 and 6 for this, calculating the gain of thelong complete descriptions generated by our al-gorithms (long (FI /SL) in Table 1) over the lesscomplete descriptions (long (other) in Table 1).Introducing separate hypotheses for cases S1 andS2 poses the problem of defining when a gain is?negligible?
and when a gain is ?large?.
Instead,we will compare the gain achieved in S1 with thegain achieved in S2, expecting that the gain in S2(which we believe to be large) will be larger thanthe gain in S1 (which we believe to be negligible).Hypothesis 3: The gain of a complete descrip-tion over a less complete one will be larger forsituations in which FI and SL generated thecomplete one, than for situations in which theygenerated the less complete one.Materials: Twenty on-line documents were pro-duced, with the same document structure (sec-tions 1 to 5 with parts A to C) and containing10 pictures.
Documents had a unique backgroundcolour, title and pictures appropriate for the title.The number of pictures in a section or part variedper document.
All of this was done to prevent sub-jects relying on memory.Documents were constructed specifically for theexperiment.
Using real-world documents mighthave made the tasks more realistic, but would haveposed a number of problems.
Firstly, documentsneeded to be similar enough in structure to allowa fair comparison between longer and shorter de-scriptions.
However, the structure should not al-low subjects to learn where pictures are likely to be(for instance, in patient information leaflets mostpictures tend to be at the beginning).
Secondly,the content of documents should not help subjectsfind a picture: e.g., if we were using a real docu-ment on animals, subjects might expect a pictureof a tiger to be near to a picture of a lion.
So,60Short Long (FI/SL) Long (Other)Sit.
Type Mean STDEV Mean STDEV Mean STDEV1 DE 3.58 2.14 1.10 0.502 DE 3.85 3.28 1.30 1.313 LO 5.60 4.84 1.93 1.29 1.23 1.274 LO 2.50 1.97 1.60 1.28 1.38 2.075 LO 8.53 4.15 1.15 0.53 5.65 6.746 LO 7.38 5.49 1.25 1.03 4.08 2.357 NONE 1.58 0.98 1.63 2.618 NONE 1.48 0.96 1.05 0.32Table 2: Number of clicks used to complete the tasks.Sit.
Type Mean STDEV1 DE 2.48 2.247 NONE -0.05 2.772 DE 2.55 3.628 NONE 0.43 1.04Table 3: Gain as used for Hypothesis 2.we do not want subjects to use semantic informa-tion or their background knowledge of the domain.Thirdly, real documents might not have the rightdescriptions in them, so we would need to changetheir sentences by hand.5.2 Results and discussionForty subjects completed the experiment.
Table2 shows descriptive statistics for the number ofclicks subjects made to complete each task.
Toanalyse the results with respect to Hypothesis 1,we used a General Linear Model (GLM ) with re-peated measures.
We used two repeated factors:Situation (sit.
1 to 6) and Description Length(short and long(FI/SL) ).
We found a highly sig-nificant effect of Description Length on the num-ber of clicks used to complete the task (p<.001).In all potential problematic situations the numberof clicks is smaller for the long than for the shortdescription.
This confirms Hypothesis 1.Table 3 shows descriptive statistics for the gain asused for Hypothesis 2.
We again used a GLMwith repeated measures, using two repeated fac-tors: Descriptions Content (that of situations 1 and7, and that of situations 2 and 8) and SituationType (potential DE and non-problematic).
Wefound a highly significant effect of Situation Typeon the gain (p<.001).
In the non-problematic situ-ations the gain is smaller than in the potential DEsituations.
This confirms Hypothesis 2.Table 4 shows descriptive statistics for the gain asused for Hypothesis 3.
We again used a GLMSit.
FI Decision Mean STDEV3 NOT COMPLETE 0.70 1.405 COMPLETE 4.50 6.674 NOT COMPLETE 0.23 2.516 COMPLETE 2.83 2.16Table 4: Gain as used for Hypothesis 3.with repeated measures, using two repeated fac-tors: Descriptions Content (that of situations 3 and5, and that of 4 and 6) and FI Decision (with 2levels: complete and not complete).
We founda highly significant effect of FI Decision on thegain (p<.001).
The gain is smaller for situationswere our algorithm decided to use an incompletedescription than in situations were it chose a com-plete description.
This confirms Hypothesis 3.6 ConclusionWe have discussed generation strategies that facil-itate resolution of referring expressions by addinglogically redundant information to the descriptionsgenerated.
Redundancy has a role to play in dif-ferent kinds of situation (see Introduction for ref-erences), but we have focussed on a class of casesthat we believe to be widespread, namely wherethe domain is hierarchical.
We have argued that,in such situations, minimally distinguishing de-scriptions can sometimes be useless.
Various al-gorithms for generating logically redundant ref-erences have been implemented.
The extensiveexperiment of section 5 indicates that these algo-rithms are fundamentally on the right track.The new algorithms discussed in this paper are analternative to classical GRE algorithms.
This raisesthe question how one knows whether to use thenew FI or SL instead of one of its competitors?Let us compare the predictions made by our al-gorithms with those made by Dale and Haddock(1991).
Suppose their description ?the bowl on thetable?
was said when there are two tables and two61bowls, while (only) the table furthest away fromthe hearer has a bowl on it.
In this situation, FIand SL would generate something redundant likethe bowl on the far-away table.
Which of the twodescriptions is best?
We submit that it depends onthe situation: when all the relevant facts are avail-able to the hearer without effort (e.g., all the do-main objects are visible at a glance) then minimaldescriptions are fine.
But in a huge room, whereit is not obvious to the hearer what is on each ta-ble, search is required.
It is this type of situationthat there is a need for the kind of ?studied?
redun-dancy embodied in FI and SL, because the min-imally ?the bowl on the table?
would not be veryhelpful.
The new algorithms are designed for situ-ations where the hearer may have to make an effortto uncover the relevant facts.By focussing on the benefits for the reader (interms of the effort required for identifying the ref-erent), we have not only substantiated the claimsin Paraboni and van Deemter (2002), to the effectthat it can be good to add logically redundant in-formation to a referring expression; we have alsobeen able to shed light on the reason why redun-dant descriptions are sometimes preferred (com-pared with the experiment in Paraboni and vanDeemter (2002), which did not shed light on thereason for this preference): we can now say withsome confidence that, in the circumstances speci-fied, the generated redundant descriptions are re-solved with particular ease.
By counting the num-ber of clicks that subjects need to find the referent,we believe that we may have achieved a degree ofinsight into the ?resolution?
processes in the headof the reader, not unlike the insights coming outof the kind of eye-tracking experiments that havebeen popular in psycholinguistics for a number ofyears now.
It would be interesting to see whetherour ideas can be confirmed using such a more en-trenched experimental paradigm.7 ReferencesArts, Anja.
2004.
Overspecification in instructivetexts.
PhD.
Tilburg University, The Netherlands.Wolf Publishers, Nijmegen.Cremers, Anita.
1996.
Reference to Objects;an empirically based study of task-oriented dia-logues.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Eindhoven.Dale, Robert and Nicholas Haddock.
1991.
Gen-erating Referring Expressions involving Relations.EACL, Berlin, pp.161-166.Dale, Robert and Ehud Reiter.
1995.
Computa-tional Interpretations of the Gricean Maxims in theGeneration of Referring Expressions.
CognitiveScience 18:pp.233-263.Deutsch, W. 1976.
?Sprachliche Redundanz undObjectidentifikation.?
Unpublished PhD disserta-tion, University of Marburg.Edmonds, Philip G. 1994.
Collaboration on ref-erence to objects that are not mutually known.COLING-1994, Kyoto, pp.1118-1122.Krahmer, E. and Theune, M. 2002.
EfficientContext-Sensitive Generation of Referring Ex-pressions.
In K. van Deemter and R. Kibble (eds.
)Information Sharing.
CSLI Publ., Stanford.Horacek, Helmut.
2005.
Generating referentialdescriptions under conditions of uncertainty.
10thEuropean workshop on Natural Language Gener-ation (ENLG-2005).
Aberdeen, pp.58-67.Jordan, Pamela W. 2000.
Can Nominal Expres-sions Achieve Multiple Goals?
: An EmpiricalStudy.
ACL-2000, Hong Kong.Levelt, W.J.M.
1989.
Speaking: From Intention toArticulation.
MIT Press, Cambridge.Mangold, Roland.
1986.
Sensorische Faktorenbeim Verstehen ueberspezifizierter Objektbenen-nungen.
Frankfurt: Peter Lang Verlag.Paraboni, Ivandre.
2000.
An algorithm for gen-erating document-deictic references.
INLG-2000Workshop Coherence in Generated Multimedia,Mitzpe Ramon, pp.27-31.Paraboni, Ivandre and van Deemter, K. (2002).Generating Easy References: the Case of Docu-ment Deixis.
INLG-2002, New York, pp.113-119.Sonnenschein, Susan.
1984.
The effect of redun-dant communication on listeners: Why differenttypes may have different effects.
Journal of Psy-cholinguistic Research 13, pp.147-166.van Deemter, Kees.
2004.
Finetuning an NLGsystem through experiments with human subjects:the case of vague descriptions.
INLG-04, Brock-enhurst, UK, pp.31-40.van der Sluis, I.
2005.
Multimodal Reference,Studies in Automatic Generation of MultimodalReferring Expressions.
Ph.D. thesis, Tilburg Uni-versity, the Netherlands.62
