Proceedings of the Third ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 23?28,Trento, Italy, April 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsMarked AdpositionsS.A.M.
LestradeRadboud University NijmegenS.Lestrade@let.ru.nlAbstractThis paper discusses the partitive-genitivecase alternation of Finnish adpositions.
Thiscase alternation is explained in terms ofbidirectional alignment of markedness inform and meaning.
Marked PP meanings areassigned partitive case, unmarked onesgenitive case.1 Introduction1This paper explores the relation of spatialadpositions and case in Finnish.
Two majorclasses of adpositions in Finnish can bedistinguished, one combining with genitive case,the other with partitive case.
A third, very smallset can combine with both.
The meaning of theselatter adpositions depends on whether they arecombined with partitive case or genitive case, asillustrated in the following examples:(1) juoks-i-mme  ymp?ri  kaupunki-arun-PAST-1PL around  city-PART?We were running around in the city?
(2) juoks-i-mme kaupungi-n   ymp?rirun-PAST-1PL  city-GEN         around?We ran around the city?In Section 2 and 3, I will show what determinesthe markedness of adpositional phrases (PPs).
InSection 4, I will give a short introduction ofbidirectional OT, with which I will analyze theFinnish data in Section 5.
Before ending withconclusions, I will shortly  discuss the role of1Many thanks to Lotte Hogeweg, Helen de Hoop, Peter deSwart, and Joost Zwarts, as well as to three anonymousreviewers, for useful comments on an earlier version of thispaper.
I would especially like to thank Seppo Kittil?
fordiscussion of the Finnish examples.
Also, I gratefullyacknowledge the Netherlands Organisation of ScientificResearch (NWO) for financial support, grant 220-70-003,principal investigator Helen de Hoop (PIONIER-project?Case cross-linguistically?
).word order (i.e., pre- vs. postpositional use of theadposition).2 Qualities of Adpositional Phrases:Markedness of MeaningThere are different ways to diagnosemarkedness.
De Hoop et al (2003) mentionamongst others order of acquisition (theunmarked form is acquired before the markedone), context (the unmarked interpretation of aform is the interpretation it gets in neutralcontext), syntactic/morphological complexity (asimple form or construction is less marked than acomplex form or construction), and frequency(the unmarked option occurs more often than themarked one).
In what follows I will use thesecriteria on properties of adpositions.Spatial meaning is usually divided intolocational and directional meaning.
The formercould be said to be less complex than the second,since directional meaning by definition implies achange in place (cf.
Helmantel 1998; Jackendoff1983).
This difference in complexity is alsoreflected in the order of acquisition of spatialprepositions, as locatives are acquired beforedirectionals (Bowerman and Choi 2001).
Ipropose that some directional meaning can beeven more complex.
Compare the followingschematizations of locative meaning (3a), simpledirectional meaning (3b/c), and complexdirectional meaning (3d).
The squares representthe Ground, each  round the Figure at a differentmoment in time:2Figure 3.
Schematizations of spatial meaning(3a) Locative   (3b) Simple directionalmeaning:  ?besides?
meaning: ?from?2The notions of Figure and Ground refer to the locatedobject and the object of reference, respectively (cf.
Talmy2001).23(3c)  Simple directional (3d) Complex directionalmeaning: ?around?
meaning: ?around?mFollowing Zwarts (1997, 2003a, 2003b), we candescribe the relation between a Figure and aGround by means of vectors.
The simpledirectional meaning puts restrictions on either thedirection (in case of a straight line (3b)) or thelength (in case of a circle (3c)) of the vectors.Complex directional meaning imposes norestrictions whatsoever (3d).
That the distinctionbetween (3c) and (3d) is linguistically relevantcan be seen in the following Ancient Greekexample.
In (4a), dia combined with the genitivecase indicates a simple, straight line, whereas thecombination with accusative case in (4b) refersto a complex directional meaning, in which theGround is almost completely covered by thepath:(4a)  di?
mou   kh?lkeonDIA shoulder:GEN bronze:N/A?gkhos  ?ltenspear:N/A go:AOR.3SG?the spear of bronze went through hisshoulder?
[Ilias 4.481-2, taken fromLuraghi 2003: 168](4b)  helix?menos   di?turn:PART.AOR.MID.NOM DIAbssasglen:ACC.PL.F?turning around through the glens?
[Ilias17.283, taken from Luraghi 2003: 171]I argue that this difference in spatial complexitycorresponds to a difference in semanticmarkedness, (4a) being less marked than (4b).An adposition can be non-concrete, ornon-spatial.
Solstad (2002) discusses theopposition spatial - non-spatial.
Comparingspatial and causal meaning of the Germanpreposition durch, he shows that in an unmarkedsyntactic position, that is, attached at the VP orIP level, the spatial meaning of a durch PP wins.In a marked position, that is, attached as CPadjunct, the causal meaning wins.
Following thesyntactic complexity criterion, the spatialmeaning is unmarked, and the causal reading ismarked.It is by definition impossible to locate anabstract notion in space.
As adpositions prefer aspatial meaning, an abstract PP object is moremarked than a concrete one.
This markedness isreflected in the complexity of the form:Prepositions that typically take abstract objectsare often morphologically more complex.Examples are the following Dutch prepositions,and their English equivalents: vanwege ?becauseof?, betreffende ?concerning?, met betrekking tot?with regard to?, and aangaande ?concerning?.Concluding this section, we can say thata PP preferably has a simple, concrete, spatialmeaning.3 Finnish Adpositions: Markednessof FormAs we want to pair meaning with form, let uslook at the markedness of the form of Finnishadpositional phrases.
In Finnish in general, thereare more postpositions than prepositions.Postpositions combine more often with genitivecase than with partitive (54 vs. 10, respectively).The prepositions have a small preference forpartitive case (9 vs. 6).
Also for spatialadpositions, genitive case is assigned most, ascan be seen in (5) and (6):(5) Spatial adpositions assigning genitive case: al?under?, ede-/ete- ?front?
j?lke-/j?lje-?after?
luo- ?to?, ?by?, p?
?- ?on?, sis?
?in?, ta(ka)-?back?, viere- ?beside?.
(6) Spatial adpositions assigning partitive case:koh- ?towards?, pitkin ?along?, ?all over?, p?in?against?, vast- ?against?, ?in the oppositedirection?.Assuming that the most frequent form isunmarked (cf.
the frequency criterion), we canconclude that genitive case is the unmarked formfor the complement of the PP in Finnish.3Before analyzing the Finnish data inSection 5, I will first introduce Bidirectional OT,the framework I am using.3Another motivation for genitive being the standard case,though not pursued here, is the origin of adpositions.Postpositions deriving from nouns, like p??
< ?head?,usually take genitive case.244 Bidirectional OTOptimality Theory is a model of the system ofthe linguistic knowledge a speaker of a languagehas (cf.
Prince and Smolensky 1993).
The rulesin this grammar are violable constraints, whichcan be in conflict with each other.
Weakconstraints can be violated in order to satisfystronger ones.
Each language has its own specifichierarchy of constraints.
In the Generatorpossible output candidates (forms in case ofproduction, and meanings in case of perception)are formed, that are evaluated in the Evaluator.The candidate that has the least serious violationsof the constraints is the winner.Bidirectional OT gives a generalprocedure of optimization of the relation of formand meaning, simultaneously optimizing in bothdirections, from meaning to form, and from formto meaning.
Hence, BiOT evaluates form-meaning pairs (Blutner et al to appear: 90-91).In bidirectional OT a form-meaning pair is calledsuper-optimal if there is no other super-optimalform-meaning pair with a different (i.e.
lessmarked) form that expresses the same meaningbetter, and there is no other super-optimal form-meaning pair with a different meaning that is abetter interpretation of that same form.
Thisyields two super-optimal form-meaning pairs,namely the unmarked form with the unmarkedmeaning, and the marked form with the markedmeaning.
The widely attested Markednessprinciple of Horn (1984) which states thatmarked forms in languages go with markedmeanings (and unmarked forms with unmarkedmeanings) is thus accounted for by bidirectionalOT.In section 2 we saw which properties of a PP aremarked.
An unmarked PP preferably expresses asimple, concrete, spatial meaning.
Put intomarkedness constraints, we get:*COMPLEXITY: avoid semantic complexityBC (BE CONCRETE): have a concrete meaningIn my analysis, simple directional meaningviolates *Complexity once, whereas complexdirectional meaning yields a double violation.
Insection 3, genitive case was shown to be the mostfrequent, hence unmarked form.
We can put thisfinding in a markedness constraint on the form ofthe PP:GEN: use genitive case on the object of anadposition.5 Analysis of the DataNow let us have a look at the Finnish data.
Thegeneral distribution of spatial adpositions wasgiven in (5) and (6) above.
This generaldistribution seems to follow the oppositionlocative-directional: as ?towards?, ?along?,?against?
are directional and the others (roughly)locational.4As illustrated in Tableau 1, directional meaningsviolate *Complexity, and partitive forms violateUG.5Tableau 1.
The general distribution<form,meaning>GEN BC *COMPLEXITY <gen, loc><gen, dir>   *<part, loc> * <part, dir > *  *Since the form-meaning pair <gen, loc> is theonly candidate that satisfies all constraints it isthe first super-optimal pair.
In a second round ofoptimization the pairs <gen, dir> and <part, loc>fall out, because there is another form-meaningpair, namely <gen, loc>, with either a lessmarked meaning that is expressed by the sameform, or with a less marked form that expressesthe same meaning.
This yields the second super-optimal form-meaning pair, namely <part, dir>which combines the marked form with themarked meaning.The unmarked locational meaningcorresponds to the unmarked genitive form, andthe marked directional one to the markedpartitive.
Thus, the general distribution ofFinnish adpositions is accounted for.But, as mentioned before, besides thesetwo groups, Finnish has a third set of adpositionscombining with both cases:4The following test can be used to discriminate locativesfrom directional adpositions: the former can be combinedwith the verb to be, the latter with verbs of motion, such asto go.5For further explanation on the use of tableaux, I refer toBlutner et al (to appear)25(7) Adpositions taking both genitive and partitivecase: ymp?ri- ?around?, keske-?middle?, l?he-?near?, yli(-) ?over?.The meaning of such adpositions in combinationwith genitive case is different from that of acombination with partitive case.
In what follows,I will give an account of the form-meaning pairsinvolving these adpositions.
First, let us look atthe alternation of ymp?ri ?around?
shown inexamples (1) and (2), repeated below forconvenience.
(1) juoks-i-mme    ymp?ri  kaupunki-arun-PAST-1PL   around  city-PART?We were running around in the city?
(2) juoks-i-mme kaupungi-n   ymp?rirun-PAST-1PL  city-GEN         around?We ran around the city?In (1) around indicates a complex, random pathcomparable to the Greek example (4b),schematized in (3d).
In (2) however, arounddescribes a circle with the city as its centre (cf.(3c)).
The constraint on complexity is playing arole in this alternation, as is illustrated in Tableau2:Tableau 2.
Ymp?ri<form,meaning>GEN BC *COMPLEXITY <gen, circle>   *<gen, criss-cross>**<part, circle> *  * <part, criss-cross>*  **As expected, the genitive case has the unmarkedsimple meaning, whereas the partitive casecombines with the complex one.
Simpledirectional meaning violates *Complexity once,as it is one step more complex than locationalmeaning; complex directional meaning yields adouble violation.The alternation of keskell?
?in themiddle?
can be explained along the same lines.Again, genitive case combines with theunmarked meaning in (9), whereas the partitiveis assigned the marked notion ?all over?
in (8):(8) lelu-t  o-vattoy-PL.NOM be.PRES-3PLkeskell?
lattia-ain.the.middle.of floor-PART?The toys are all over the floor?
(9) lelu-t  ovattoy-PL.NOM be.PRES-3PLlattia-n  keskell?floor-GEN in.the.middle.of?The toys are in the middle of the floor?(lit.
at the centre)The third adposition to deal with is l?hell??near?.
For the previous adpositions we saw thatthe case alternation was only used for anextended meaning.
Rather unexpectedly, forl?hell?
partitive case is also possible within thesimple spatial domain, as shown in (10).6(10) auto    on  talo-ncar.NOM   be.SG.PRES house-GENl?hell?
( / talo-a)near house-PART?The car is near the house?As soon as the concreteness constraint BCbecomes of importance, however, partitive caseis used, as is clear from (11):(11) ole-mme l?hell?
ratkaisu-abe.PRES-1PL near solution-PART?We are close to a solution?In this example, the constraint BC comes intoplay.
The abstract meaning combines withpartitive case, whereas the concrete one can haveboth cases.
This is shown in the followingtableau, in which the unpredicted pair isindicated with a question mark:Tableau 3.
L?hell?<form,meaning>GEN BC *COMPLEXITY <gen, concr><gen, abstr>  *?
<part, concr> * <part, abstr> * *6Indeed, it is not always the case that there is a clear one-to-one correspondence of form and meaning.
For furtherdiscussion on optionality I refer to De Hoop et al (2003).26Finally, let us turn to yli ?over?.
Thepreposition over has extensively been studied forEnglish (cf.
Lakoff 1987; Brugman 1988; Dewell1994).
The more central meanings are thelocative ?be in the space above something?
and?be on the other side of something?, and thedirectional ?starting from one side of something,go to the other side via the covering space?
and?starting from one side of something, go to theother side via its (top) surface?.
The reading ?toexceed something?
that ?over?
also has, is furtherremoved from the central meaning.
In Finnish wesee that the more central notions are covered bythe genitive case, as is shown in (12) and (13):(12) lintu     lent??
puu-n bird.nomfly.pres.3sg tree- GENyliover?The bird flies over the tree?
(13) mies  k?velee           kukkula-n  yliman  live.pres.3sg  hill-GEN over?The man lives over the hill?Only within the extended ?Excess?
meaning, thepartitive case can occur, as can be seen in (14):(14) t?m?-n   auto-n    hintathis-GEN car-GEN  price.NOMon                  yli      2500  euro-abe.3SG.PRES  over   2500  euro-PART?The price of this car is higher than2500 Euro?It is still possible to use genitive case here, butthe 2500 Euro is pragmatically different for bothconstructions.
With partitive case, it is anarbitrary amount, whereas it is precisely theamount I intended to spend on the car with thegenitive.
Here, the prominence of the amountmakes it more concrete.Tableau 4.
Yli ?exceeding?<form,meaning>GEN BC *Complexity <gen, concr><gen, abstr>  *<part, concr > * <part, abstr > * *6 About Word OrderAs noted above, there is a correlation betweenthe syntactic position and case in the Finnishadpositional system.
How do we know that it isnot the syntactic position that determines themarkedness, instead of case (cf.
(1) and (2))?First, the correlation should not be taken as astrict rule, as both postpositional andprepositional l?hell?
can govern partitive case:(15) auto     on  talo-acar.NOM  be.SG.PRES house-PARTl?hell?
(/ talo-a)near house-PART?The car is near the house?Other examples of the indifference of thepartitive with respect to its position are kohti andennen:(16)  auto     tul-icar.NOM  come-3SG.PASTminu-a          kohti (/ minu-a)1SG-PART  towards 1SG-PART?The car was coming towards me?
(17)  h?n     saapu-is/he.NOM   arrive-3SG.PASTminu-a   ennen (/ minu-a)1SG-PART before 1SG-PART?S/he arrived before me?A more complex example is given in (18) and(19).
Sometimes, the non-standard combinationof partitive with a postposition yields ametaphorical reading, whereas the standardcombination with a preposition yields a concretereading:(18)  t?m?
aihe  onthis.NOM  topic.NOM be.3SG.PRESminu-a  l?hell?1SG-PART near/close?This topic is close to my heart?
(19) t?m?
onthis.NOM be.SG.PRESl?hell?
minu-anear 1SG-PART?This is close to me?Hence, markedness is not just a matter of theoverall less frequent use of a preposition ?otherwise (19) should have the metaphorical27reading.
Apparently, there is an additionalconstraint on the form which does not say ?usepostpositions rather than prepositions?, but ?usepostpositions for genitive case and prepositionsfor partitive?.7 ConclusionIn this paper I used a bidirectional OT approachto account for the case distribution in the Finnishspatial adpositional system.
I argued thatadpositions in general can have a more or lessmarked meaning.
In Finnish this markedness isreflected in the assignment of case.
Partitivecase, as the marked form, is assigned to markedadpositions, and the unmarked genitive case isused for the unmarked ones.
Within casealternating adpositions, this same tendency isfound, albeit along different lines of markedness.ReferencesBlutner, R., de Hoop, H., and Hendriks, P. (toappear).
Optimal Communication.
CSLIBowerman, M. and Choi, S. (2001) ?Shapingmeanings for language: universal andlanguage-specific in the acquisition ofspatial semantic categories?.
In: M.Bowerman and S. C. Levinson (Eds)Language acquisition and conceptualdevelopment, 475-511.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Brugman, C. (1988) The Story of Over.
NewYork: Garland Publishing, Inc.Dewell, R. (1994) Over again: Image-schematransformations in semantic analysis.Cognitive Linguistics 5 (4): 351-380.Helmantel, M. (1998) Simplex adpositions andvector theory.
The Linguistic Review 15:361-388.de Hoop, H., Haverkort, M. and van den Noort,M.
2003.
?Variation in form versusvariation in meaning?.
Lingua 114:1071-1089Jackendoff, Ray.
1983.
Semantics and cognition.Cambridge, MA: MIT PressLakoff, G. 1987.
Women, fire, and dangerousthings : what categories reveal about themind.
Chicago: University of ChicagoPressPrince, A., & Smolensky, P. 1993.
Optimalitytheory: Constraint Interaction inGenerative Grammar.
Rutgers Centerfor Cognitive Science: Technical ReportRuCCSTR-2.
Published in 1993 byMalden, MA: Blackwell.Solstad, T. 2002 ?Optimal Interpretations andHarmonic Alignment: Towards theConstrained Lexicon?.
Talk held at theworkshop on Optimality Theory andPragmatics, ZAS Berlin, June 8-10.Talmy, L. 2001 Toward a cognitive semantics.London: MIT Press.Zwarts, J.
2003a Lexical Competion: ?Round?
inEnglish and Dutch.
In P. Dekker and R.van Rooij (Eds.)
Proceedings of theFourteenth Amsterdam Colloquium.Amsterdam: ILLC: 229-234Zwarts, J.
2003b Vectors across SpatialDomains: From Place to Size,Orientation, Shape, and Parts.
In: E. vander Zee, & J.
Slack (Eds.)
RepresentingDirection in Language and Space.Oxford: Oxford UP: 191-208.Zwarts, J.
1997 Vectors as Relative Positions: ACompositional Semantics of ModifiedPPs.
Journal of Semantics 14: 57-86.28
