Proceedings of the Workshop on Linguistic Distances, pages 91?99,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Structural Similarity MeasurePetr Homola and Vladislav Kubon?Institute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsMalostranske?
na?me?st??
25110 00 Praha 1, Czech republic{homola,vk}@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractThis paper outlines a measure of lan-guage similarity based on structuralsimilarity of surface syntactic depen-dency trees.
Unlike the more tradi-tional string-based measures, this mea-sure tries to reflect ?deeper?
correspon-dences among languages.
The develop-ment of this measure has been inspiredby the experience from MT of syntac-tically similar languages.
This experi-ence shows that the lexical similarity isless important than syntactic similar-ity.
This claim is supported by a num-ber of examples illustrating the prob-lems which may arise when a measureof language similarity relies too muchon a simple similarity of texts in differ-ent languages.1 IntroductionAlthough the similarity of natural languages isin principal a very vague notion, the linguisticliterature seems to be full of claims classifyingtwo natural languages as being more or lesssimilar.
These claims are in some cases a resultof a detailed comparative examination of lex-ical and/or syntactic properties of languagesunder question, in some cases they are basedon a very subjective opinion of the author, inmany other cases they reflect the applicationof some mathematical formula on textual data(a very nice example of such mathematical ap-proach can be found at (Scannell, 2004)).Especially in the last case the notion of lan-guage similarity is very often confused with thenotion of text similarity.
Even the well knownpaper (Lebart and Rajman, 2000) deals morewith the text similarity than language similar-ity.
This general trend is quite understand-able, the mathematical methods for measur-ing text similarity are of a prominent impor-tance especially for information retrieval andsimilar fields.
On the other hand, they con-centrate too much on the surface similarityof word forms and thus may not reflect thesimilarity of languages properly.
This papertries to advocate different approach, based onthe experience gained in MT experiments withclosely related (and similar) languages, whereit is possible to ?measure?
the similarity indi-rectly by a complexity of modules we have touse in order to achieve a reasonable transla-tion quality.
This experience led us to formu-lating an evaluation measure trying to capturenot only textual, but also syntactic similaritiesbetween natural languages.2 Imperfections of measures basedon string similarityThere are many application areas in the NLPin which it is useful to apply the measures ex-ploiting the similarity of word forms (strings).They serve very well for example for taskslike spellchecking (where the choice of the bestcandidates for correction of a spelling error istypically based upon the Levenshtein metrics)or estimating the similarity of a new sourcesentence to those stored in the translationmemory of a Machine Aided Translation sys-tem.
They are a bit controversial in a ?proper?machine translation, where the popular BLEUscore (Papineni et al, 2002), although widelyaccepted as a measure of translation accuracy,seems to favor stochastic approaches based on91an n-gram model over other MT methods (seethe results in (Nist, 2001)).The controversies the BLEU score seems toprovoke arise due to the fact that the evalua-tion of MT systems can be, in general, per-formed from two different viewpoints.
Thefirst one is that of a developer of such a sys-tem, who needs to get a reliable feedback inthe process of development and debugging ofthe system.
The primary interest of such aperson is the grammar or dictionary coverageand system performance and he needs a cheap,fast and simple evaluation method in order toallow frequent routine tests indicating the im-provements of the system during the develop-ment of the system.The second viewpoint is that of a user, whois primarily concerned with the capability ofthe system to provide fast and reliable trans-lation requiring as few post-editing efforts aspossible.
The simplicity, speed and low costsare not of such importance here.
If the eval-uation is performed only once, in the mo-ment when the system is considered to beready, the evaluation method may even be rel-atively complicated, expensive and slow.
Agood example of such a complex measure is theFEMTI framework (Framework for the Evalu-ation of Machine Translation).
The most com-plete description of the FEMTI framework canbe found in (Hovy et al, 2002).
Such mea-sures are much more popular among transla-tors than among language engineers and MTsystems developers.If we aim at measuring the similarity of lan-guages or language distances, our point of viewshould be much more similar to that of a hu-man translator than of a system developer, ifwe?ll stick to our MT analogy.
When lookingfor clues concerning the desirable propertiesof a language similarity (or distance) measure,we can first try to formulate the reasons whywe consider the simple string-based (or word-form-based) measures inadequate.If we take into account a number of lan-guages existing in the world, the number ofword forms existing in each of those languagesand a simple fact that a huge percentage ofthose word forms is not longer than five orsix characters, it is quite clear that there is ahuge number of overlapping word forms whichhave completely different meaning in all lan-guages containing that particular word form.Let us take for illustration some language pairsof non-related languages.For example for Czech and English (the lan-guages very different with regard both to thelexicon and syntax) we can find several exam-ples of overlapping word forms.
The Englishword house means a duckling in Czech, the En-glish indefinite article a is in Czech also veryfrequent, because it represents a coordinatingconjunction and, while an is an archaic formof a pronoun in Czech.
On the other hand, ifwe look at the identical (or nearly identical)word forms in similar languages, we can findmany examples of totally different meaning.For example, the word form z?ivot means lifein Czech and belly in Russian; godina meansyear in Serbo-Croatian while hodina is an hourin Czech (by the way, an hour in Russian is c?as?
and the same word means time in Czech).The overlapping word forms between rela-tively distant languages are so frequent that itis even possible to create (more or less) syntac-tically correct sentences in one language con-taining only word forms from the other lan-guage.
Again, let us look at the Czech-Englishlanguage pair.
The English sentences Let mypal to pile a lumpy paste on a metal pan.
orI had to let a house to a nosy patron.
consistentirely of word forms existing also in Czech,while the Czech sentence Adept demise metalhole pod led.
?
[A resignation candidate wasthrowing sticks under the ice.]
consists of En-glish word forms.Creating such a Czech sentence is more com-plicated ?
as a highly inflected language ituses a wide variety of endings, which make itmore difficult to create a syntactically correctsentence from word forms of a language whichhas incomparably smaller repertoire of end-ings.
This fact directly leads to another argu-ment against the string similarity based mea-sures ?
even though two languages may havevery similar syntactic properties and their ba-sic word forms may also be very similar, then ifthe languages are highly inflective and the onlydifference between those languages are differ-ent endings used for expressing identical mor-phosyntactic properties, the string similaritybased methods will probably show a substan-92tial difference between these languages.This is highly probable especially for shorterwords ?
the words with a basic formonly four or five characters long may haveendings longer or equal to the length ofthe basic form, for example: nova?/novata?new?
(Cze/Mac), vide?ny?/vidimyj ?seen?
(Cze/Rus), fotografuj??c??/fotografuojantysis?photographing?
(Cze/Lit).The last but not least indirect argumentagainst the use of string-based metrics can befound in (Kubon?
and Be?mova?, 1990).
The pa-per describes so called transducing dictionary,a set of rules designed for a direct transcrip-tion of a certain category of source languagewords into a target language.
The system hasbeen tested on two language pairs (English-to-Czech and Czech-to-Russian) and althoughthere was a natural original assumption thatsuch a system will cover substantially more ex-pressions when applied to a pair of related lan-guages (which are not only related, but alsoquite similar), this assumption turned to bewrong.
The system covered almost identicalset of words for both language pairs ?
namelythe words with Greek or Latin origin.
Thesimilarity of coverage even allowed to build anEnglish-to-Russian transducing dictionary us-ing Czech as a pivot language with a negligibleloss of the coverage.3 Experience from MT of similarlanguagesThe Machine Translation field is a good testingground for any theory concerning the similar-ity of natural languages.
The systems dealingwith related languages usually achieve highertranslation quality than the systems aiming atthe translation of more distant language pairs?
the average MT quality for a given systemand a given language pair might therefore alsoserve as some kind of a very rough metrics ofsimilarity of languages concerned.Let us demonstrate this idea using an ex-ample of a multilingual MT system describedin several recently published papers (see e.g.(Hajic?
et al, 2003) or (Homola and Kubon?,2004)).
The system aims at the translationfrom a single source language (Czech) intomultiple more or less similar target languages,namely into Slovak, Polish, Lithuanian, LowerSorbian and Macedonian.The system is very simple ?
it doesn?t con-tain any full-fledged parser, neither rule based,nor stochastic one.
It relies on the syntacticsimilarity of the source and target languages.It is transfer-based with the transfer being per-formed as soon as possible, depending on thesimilarity of both languages.
In its simplestform (Czech to Slovak translation) the systemconsists of the following modules:1.
Morphological analysis of the source lan-guage (Czech)2.
Morphological disambiguation of thesource language text by means of astochastic tagger3.
Transfer exploiting the domain-relatedbilingual glossaries and a general (domainindependent) bilingual dictionary4.
Morphological synthesis of the target lan-guageThe lower degree of similarity between Czechand the remaining target languages led toan inclusion of a shallow parsing module forCzech for some of the language pairs.
Thismodule directly follows the morphological dis-ambiguation of Czech.The evaluation results presented in (Homolaand Kubon?, 2004) indicate that even thoughCzech and Lithuanian are much less similarat the lexical and morphological level (e.g.
atboth levels actually dealing with strings), thetranslation quality is very similar due to thesyntactic similarity between all languages con-cerned.4 Typology of language similarityThe experience from the field of MT of closelyrelated languages presented in the previus sec-tions shows that it is very useful to classify thelanguage similarity into several categories:?
typological?
morphological?
syntactic?
lexicalLet us now look at these categories from thepoint of view of machine translation,934.1 Typological similarityThe first type of similarity is probably themost important one.
If both the target andthe source language are of a different languagetype, it is more difficult to obtain good MTquality.
The notions like word order, the ex-istence or non-existence of articles, differenttemporal system and several other propertieshave direct consequences for the translationquality.
Let us take Czech and Lithuanian asan example of the language pair, which doesn?tbelong to the same group of languages (Czechis a Slavic and Lithuanian Baltic language).Both languages have rich inflection and veryhigh degree of word order freedom, thus it isnot necessary to change the word order at theconstituent level.
On the other hand, bothlanguages differ a lot in the lexics and mor-phology.For example, both (1) and (3) mean approx-imately ?The father read a/the book?.
Whatthese sentences differ in is the informationstructure.
(1) should be translated as ?Thefather read a book?, whereas (3) means infact ?The book has been read by the father?.1The category of voice differs in both sentencesbecause of strict word order in English, al-though in both Czech equivalents, active voiceis used.2 We see that in the Lithuanian trans-lation, the word order is exactly the same.
(1) Otecfather-nomc?etlread-3sg,pastknihubook-acc?The father read a book.?
(Cze)(2) Te?vasfather-nomskaite?read-3sg,pastknyg ?abook-acc?The father read a book.?
(Lit)(3) Knihubook-accc?etlread-3sg,pastotecfather-nom?The father read a book.?
(Cze)1Note that in the first sentence, an indefinite articleis used, whereas in the latter one, a definite articlestands in front of ?book?.
The reason is that in the firstsentence, the noun?book?
is not contextually bound (itbelongs to the focus), in the latter one it belongs to thetopic.2Passive voice (except of the reflexive one) occursrarely in Czech (and most other Slavonic languages).It can be used if one would like to underline the di-rect object or if there is no subject at all (for example,Kniha byla c?tena ?The book has been read?).
(4) Knyg ?abook-accskaite?read-3sg,pastte?vasfather-nom?The father read a book.?
(Lit)4.2 Lexical similarityThe lexical similarity does not mean that thevocabulary has to have the same origin, i.e.,that words have to be created from the same(proto-)stem.
What is important for shallowMT (and for MT in general), is the seman-tic correspondence (preferably one-to-one re-lation).Lexical similarity is the least important onefrom the point of view of MT, because the lex-ical differences are solved in the glossaries andgeneral dictionaries.4.3 Syntactic similaritySyntactic similarity is also very important es-pecially on higher levels, in particular on theverbal level.
The differences in verbal va-lences have negative influence on the qualityof translation due to the fact that the trans-fer thus requires a large scale valence lexiconfor both languages, which is extremely difficultto build.
Syntactic structure of smaller con-stituents, such as nominal and prepositionalphrases, is not that important, because it ispossible to analyze those constituents syntac-tically using a shallow syntactic analysis andthus it is possible to adapt locally the syntacticstructure of a target sentence.4.4 Morphological similarityMorphological similarity means similar struc-ture of morphological hierarchy and paradigmssuch as case system, verbal system etc.
Inour understanding Baltic and Slavic languages(except for Bulgarian and Macedonian) havea similar case system and their verbal systemis quite similar as well.
Some problems arecaused by synthetic forms, which have to beexpressed by analytical constructions in otherlanguages (e.g., future tense or conjunctive inCzech and Lithuanian).
The differences inmorphology can be relatively easily overcomedby the exploitation of full-fledged morphologyof both languages (source and target).Similar morphological systems simplify thetransfer.
For example, Slavonic languages (ex-cept of Bulgarian and Macedonian) have 6-794cases.
The case system of East Baltic lan-guages is very similar, although it has been re-duced formally in Latvian (instrumental formsare equal as dative and accusative and thefunction of instrumentral is expressed by thepreposition ar ?with?, similarly as in UpperSorbian).
(Ambrazas, 1996) gives seven casesfor Lithuanian, but there are in fact at leasteight cases in Lithuanian (or ten cases but onlyeight of them are productive3).
Neverthelessthe case systems of Slavonic and East Balticlanguages are very similar which makes thelanguages quite similar even across the borderof different language groups.Significant differences occur only in the ver-bal system, East Baltic languages have a hugeamount of participles and half-participles thathave no direct counterpart in Czech.
TheLithuanian translation of an example from(Gamut, 1991) is given in (5):(5) Gime?was-born-3sgvaikas,child-nomvaldysiantisruling-fut,masc,sg,nompasauli?world-acc?A child was born which will rule theworld.?
(Lit)The participle valdysiantis is used insteadof an embedded sentence, because Lithuanianhas future participles.
These participles haveto be expresses by an embedded sentence inSlavonic languages.5 An outline of a structuralsimilarity measureIn this section, we propose a comparativelysimple measure of syntactic (structural) sim-ilarity.
There are generally two levels whichmay serve as a basis for such a structural mea-sure, the surface or deep syntactic level.
Let usfirst explain the reasons supporting our choiceof surface syntactic level.Compared to deep syntactic representation,the surface syntactic trees are much more3Although some Balticists argue that illative formsare adverbs, it is a fact that this case is productive andused quite often (Erika Rimkute?, personal communica-tion), though it has been widely replaced by preposi-tional phrases.
Allative and adessive are used only insome Lithuanian dialects, except of a few fixed allativeforms (e.g., vakarop(i) ?in the evening?, velniop(i) ?tothe hell?.
)closely related to the actual surface form of asentence.
It is quite common that every wordform or punctuation sign is directly related toa single node of a surface syntactic tree.
Thedeep syntactic trees, on the other hand, usu-ally represent autosemantic words only, theymay even actually contain more nodes thanthere are words in the input sentence (for ex-ample, when the input sentence contains ellip-sis).
It is also quite clear that the deep syntac-tic trees are much more closely related to themeaning of the sentence than its original sur-face form, therefore they may hide certain dif-ferences between the languages concerned, it isa generally accepted hypothesis that transferperformed on the deep syntactic level is eas-ier than the transfer at the surface syntacticlevel, especially for syntactically and typolog-ically less similar languages.The second important decision we had tomake was to select the best type of surfacesyntactic trees between the dependency andphrase structure trees.
For practical reasonswe have decided to use dependency trees.
Themain motivation for this decision is the enor-mous structural ambiguity of phrase structuretrees that represent sentences with identicalsurface form.
Let us have a look at the follow-ing Polish sentence:(6) Pawe lPawe l-nomczytaread-3sgksi ?az?k ?ebook-fem,sg,acc?Pawe l is reading a/the book.
?The syntactic structure of this sentence canbe expressed by two phrase structure trees rep-resenting different order of attaching nominalphrases to a verb.44The full line denotes the head of the phrase, thedotted line a dependent.95????
?Pawe l czyta ksi ?az?k ?e????
?Pawe l czyta ksi ?az?k ?eThere is no linguistically relevant differencebetween these two trees.
Although generallyuseful, the information hidden in both treesis purely superfluous for our goal of designinga simple structural metrics.
The dependencytree obtained from the phrase structure onesby contraction of all head edges seem to bemuch more appropriate for our purpose.
In ourexample, we therefore get the following formof the dependency tree:czytazzuuuuuuuuu$$JJJJJJJJJPawe l ksi ?az?k ?eThe nodes of the dependency trees repre-senting surface syntactic level directly corre-spond to word forms present in the sentence.For the sake of simplicity, the punctuationmarks are not represented in our trees.
Theywould probably cause a lot of technical prob-lems and might distort the whole similaritymeasure.
The node of a tree are ordered andreflect the surface word-order of the sentence.Different labels of nodes in both languages (seethe example below) don?t influence the valueof the measure, however they are importantfor the identification of corresponding nodes(a bilingual dictionary is used here).The structural measure we are suggesting isbased on the analogy to the Levenshtein mea-sure.
It is therefore pretty simple ?
the dis-tance of two trees is the minimal amount ofelementary operations that transform one treeto the other.
We consider the following ele-mentary operations:1. adding a node,2.
removing a node,3.
changing the order of a node,4.
changing the father of a node.The similarity of languages can be obtainedas an average distance of individual sentencesin a parallel corpus.The following examples show the use of themeasure on individual trees.
The correspon-dence between individual nodes of both treescan be handled by exploiting the bilingual dic-tionary wherever necessary:(7) VesnaVesna-nomjeis-3sgpri?slacome-respart,fem,sg?Vesna has come.?
(Slo)(8) VesnaVesna-nomprzysz lacome-respart,fem,sg?Vesna has come.?
(Pol)The distance between (7) and (8) is equal 1,since one node has been removed (the dottedline gives the removed node).pri?sla/przysz lattjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjxxVesna je(9) Gremgo-1sgzwithavtomcar-masc,sg,ins?I am going by car.?
(Slo)(10) Jad ?ego-1sgsamochodemcar-masc,sg,ins?I am going by car.?
(Pol)96The distance between (9) and (10) is equal1, since one node has been removed (the dottedline gives the removed node).grem/jad ?e**UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUavtom/samochodemwwz5.1 Formalization(11) Onhe-nomra?dwith-pleasureplaveswims-3sg?He likes swimming.?
(Cze)plaveuujjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjyyon ra?dlikes|| %%he 11 swimmingThe Czech-English example (11) shows twosentences which have a mutual distance equalto 3 ?
if we start changing the Czech treeinto an English one, then the first elemen-tary operation is the deletion of the node ra?d,the second operation adds the new node cor-responding to the English word likes and thethird and last operation is the change of thefather of the node corresponding to the per-sonal pronoun on [he] from swimming to likes.As mentioned above, the node labels are nottaken into account, the fact that the Czech fi-nite verbal form plave changes into an Englishgerund has no effect on the distance.A similar case are sentences with a dativeagent, for example:(12) Jeismime-datzimacold-f,sg,nom?I am cold?
(Cze)In this sentence, the Czech mi does notmatch to I since it is no subject.
Similarly,the substantive zima does not match to cold,since it is a different part of speech.
Hencetwo nodes are removed and two new nodesare added, which gives us a distance of 4.This example demonstrates that the measuretends to behave naturally - even short sen-tences containing syntactically different con-structions get a relatively high score.To formalize the process described above, letus introduce a notion of lexical and analyticalequality of nodes in analytical trees:?
Two nodes equal lexically if and only ifthey share the same meaning in the givencontext.
Nevertheless to simplify auto-matic processing, we treat two nodes aslexically equal if they share a particularmeaning (defined e.g.
as a non-empty in-tersection of Wordnet classes).?
Two nodes equal analytically if and onlyif they have the same analytical label (e.g.subject, spacial adverbial etc.
).As for the measure, two nodes match to eachother if they 1) occur at the same position inthe subtree of their parent and 2) equal lexi-cally and analytically.If a subtree (greater than 1) is added or re-moved, the operation contributes to the mea-sure with the size of the subtree (the amountof its nodes), for example in the following id-iomatic phrase:(13) pus?cic?leave-infzwithdymemsmoke-masc,sg,ins?burn down?
(Pol)(14) zapa?litburn-down-inf?burn down?
(Cze)In the above example, the distance isequal 2.The automatic procedure can be describedas follows (given two trees):1.
Align all sons of the root node.2.
Count discrepancies.3.
For all matched nodes, go to step 1 toprocess subtrees and sum up distances.975.2 DiscussionIt is obvious that our measure expresses the ty-pological similarity of languages.
We get com-paratively high values even for genetically re-lated languages if their typology is different.Let us demonstrate this fact on Czech andMacedonian examples.
(15) IvanIvan-nomdalgave-respart,masc,sgknihubook-fem.sg,accStojanoviStojan-dat?Ivan gave the book to Stojan.?
(Cze)dal||yyyyyyyy##FFFFFFFFF**TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTIvan knihu Stojanovi(16) IvanIvan-nommuhimjaher-fem,sg,accimahas-3sgdadenogiven-ppart,neut,sgknigatabook-fem.sg,defnaonStojanStojan?Ivan gave the book to Stojan.?
(Mac)The distance equals 5.
The score is rela-tively high, taken into account that both lan-guages are related.
It indicates again that fora given purpose the measure seems to provideconsistent results.The proposed measure takes into accountonly the structure of the trees, completely ig-noring node and edge labels.
Let us analyzethe following example:(17) Tathis-fem,sg,nomksi ?az?kabook-fem.sg,nomsi ?eREFLcz ?estowellczytaread-3sg?This book is read often.?
(18) T?ethis-fem,sg,accksi ?az?k ?ebook-fem.sg,accsi ?eREFLcz ?estowellczytaread-3sg?This book is read often.
?The syntactic trees of both sentences havethe same structure, but (17) is passive and(18) active (with a general subject).
This isof course a significant difference and as suchit should be captured in the measure, never-theless our simple measure doesn?t reflect it.There are several reasons why a current ver-sion of the measure doesn?t include morpho-logical and morphosyntactic labels.
One of thereasons is a different nature of the problem ?to design a reliable measure combining struc-tural information with the information con-tained in node labels is very difficult.
From thetechnical point of view, a great obstacle is alsothe variety of systems of tags used for this pur-pose for individual languages, which may notbe compatible.
For example, Macedonian hasalmost no cases at nouns, therefore it wouldmake no sense to use cases in the noun anno-tation, while for other Slavic languages (andnot only for Slavic ones) is this informationvery important.
To find a good integration ofmorphosyntactic features into the structuralmeasure is definitely a very interesting topicfor future research.6 ConclusionsThis paper contains an outline of a simple lan-guage similarity measure based upon the sur-face syntactic dependency trees.
According toour opinion, such a measure expresses moreadequately the similarity of languages thansimple string-based measures used for the textsimilarity.
The measure is defined on pairs oftrees from a parallel corpus.
In its currentform it doesn?t account for differences in mor-phosyntactic labels of corresponding nodes oredges, although it is an important parameterof language similarity.
The proper combina-tion of our basic structural similarity measurewith some measure reflecting the differences oflabels opens a wide range of options for a fu-ture research.
Equally important seems to bea task of gathering properly syntactically an-notated parallel corpora of a reasonable size.The only corpus of such kind which we haveat our disposal, the Prague Czech-English De-pendency Treebank (Cur??
?n et al, 2004) re-lies on imperfect automatic annotation whichmight distort the results.
The human annota-tion of the PCEDT is just starting, so there?s a98dadenorrffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffss uuzz %%LLLLLLLLLL++XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXIvan mu ja ima knigata Stojan{{naFigure 1: The dependency tree of (16)good chance that the measure will bring somereliable results at least for those two lenguagessoon.7 AcknowledgementsThis research was supported by the Min-istry of Education of the Czech Repub-lic, project MSM0021620838, by the grantNo.
GAUK 351/2005 and by the grantNo.
1ET100300517.
We would like to thankthe anonymous reviewers for their valuablecomments and recommendations.ReferencesVytautas Ambrazas.
1996.
Dabartine?s lietuviu?
kal-bos gramatika.
Mokslo ir enciklopediju?
leidykla,Vilnius.Jan Cur??
?n, Martin C?mejrek, Ji?r??
Havelka, Jan Ha-jic?, Vladislav Kubon?, and Zdene?k Z?abokrtsky?.2004.
Prague Czech-English Dependency Tree-bank Version 1.0.
Linguistic Data Consortium.LTF Gamut.
1991.
Login, loanguage and meaning2: Intensional logic and logical grammar.
Uni-versity of Chicago Press, Chicago.Jan Hajic?, Petr Homola, and Vladislav Kubon?.2003.
A simple multilinguale machine transla-tion system.
In Proceedings of the MT SummitIX, New Orleans.Petr Homola and Vladislav Kubon?.
2004.
A trans-lation model for languages of accessing coun-tries.
In Proceedings of the 9th EAMT Work-shop, La Valetta, Malta.Eduard Hovy, Margaret King, and AndreiPopescu-Beli.
2002.
Principles of Context-Based Machine Translation Evaluation.
Ma-chine Translation, 1(17).Vladislav Kubon?
and Alevtina Be?mova?.
1990.Czech-to-Russian Transducing Dictionary.
InProceedings of the XIIIth conference COLING?90, volume 3.Ludovic Lebart and Martin Rajman, 2000.
Hand-book of Natural Language Processing, chapterComputing similarity.
Dekker, New York.Nist.
2001.
Automatic evaluation of machinetranslation quality using n-gram co-occurrencestatistics.
Technical report, NIST.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, andWei-Jing Zhu.
2002.
BLEU: a Method forAutomatic Evaluation of Machine Translation.In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics,Philadelphia.Kevin P. Scannell.
2004.
Cor-pus building for minority languages.http://borel.slu.edu/crubadan/index.html.99
