Proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Tree Adjoining Grammar and Related Formalisms, pages 153?158,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational Linguistics?Single Cycle?
Languages: Empirical Evidence for TAG-AdjoiningArthur StepanovInstitute of LinguisticsUniversity of PotsdamP.O.
Box 601553, D-14415 Potsdam, Germanyartorius7@gmail.comAbstractRussian and Polish lack ?unbounded?syntactic dependencies that fall intothe primary empirical domain ofTAG-Adjoining, namely, long-distancemovement/filler-gap dependencies acrossa tensed clause boundary.
A theory thatincorporates Adjoining as a recursivestructure building device provides a noveland straightforward account of this gap,whereas existing theories of syntacticlocality, e.g.
of the standard Minimalistkind, face difficulties explaining the phe-nomenon.
These languages thus supplydirect linguistic evidence for Adjoining.1 IntroductionFrank (2002), elaborating on earlier work (Kroch,1987) shows that incorporating TAG-Adjoininginto a theory of Universal Grammar of the Min-imalist kind (Chomsky, 1995; Chomsky, 2000)yields a number of important empirical advan-tages.
In particular, Adjoining provides a sim-ple and elegant solution for the long-standing anddifficult problem in modern syntactic theory con-cerning a proper formulation of the recursive, or?successive-cyclic?, character of unbounded longmovement in examples such as (1) where the wh-phrase stops by each intermediate CP (?Comp?).
(1) [CP Who1 does Peter think [CP t1 (that)Mary saw t1]]?According to Frank (2002), there is no long move-ment per se in (1); rather, only a local wh-movement takes place within the embedded clause(2-a), and the matrix part (2-b) is later ?interpo-lated?
by Adjoining at the C?
node.
(2) a.
[CP Who1 [C?
Mary saw t1]]b.
[C?
does Peter think]Other long-distance dependencies, such as long?subject raising?
(e.g.
John seems to be likely to besmart) are treated along similar lines.Long-distance dependencies (LDD) thus reduceto local dependencies within an elementary tree(in the sense of TAG) coupled with the recursivemechanism of ?interpolating?
additional structuralchunk(s) by Adjoining.
It follows that if the re-cursive engine in the form of Adjoining were ren-dered inoperative in some language, LDDs that arebuilt with Adjoining will not be possible in thatlanguage.
In this study, we investigate Russian andPolish and argue that those are indeed languagesthat meet that expectation.2 DataA systematization of the relevant data leadsto the following descriptive generalization:movement/filler-gap dependencies of any kindin Russian and Polish are strictly confined to asingle Tense domain, roughly, C(omplementizer)P(hrase) in the standardly assumed clausestructure.Consider first the case of A?-movement.
Itis well known that Russian lacks standard long-distance wh-movement out of finite (tensed)clauses of the type in (1) (Comrie (1972), amongothers).
Russian also lacks other long-distance A?-dependencies such as Topicalization (Mu?ller andSternefeld, 1993).
This is shown in (3).
(3) a.
?*KogoWhom-acctyyousc?itaes??believec?tothatMas?aMashaljubit?loves153b.
?
*etuthisknigubookIvanIvansc?itaetbelievesc?tothatemuhimdalgaveMaksimMaksimAside from finite clauses, wh-movement is possi-ble out of control infinitival as well as out of sub-junctive complements:(4) KogoWhomIvanIvanxoc?etwantspriglasit?to-invitenatovec?erinku?party(5) KogoWhomIvanIvanxotelwantedc?tobythat-sbjmywepriglasili?invitedControl infinitivals in Russian have been inde-pendently shown to be domains smaller than CP,namely, VPs (Babby, 1998), unlike in Englishwhere they are analyzed as either CPs or TPs, de-pending on a theory.1 Subjunctive clauses presenta well known ?restructuring?
context.
In manylanguages, they trigger ?clause union?
and al-low otherwise clause-bound processes, e.g.
cliticclimbing.
In Russian, subjunctive clauses displaythe obviation effect with respect to Condition Bwhereby the embedded subject must have a refer-ence disjoint with that of the matrix subject, typi-cal of a clause-bound process:(6) *IvaniIvanxoc?etwantsc?tobythat-subjnctoniheuexalleftGiven this and other local effects, subjunctivesin Russian and other languages have been arguedto involve a ?domain extension?
process (not verywell understood in a derivational theory) collaps-ing matrix and embedded clauses into a singleTense domain ((Picallo, 1984; Progovac, 1993;Terzi, 1992) among others).The precise nature of the single Tense domainrestriction in Russian has remained largely un-clear.
A number of technical solutions wereproposed in the Government and Binding andMinimalist frameworks in the form of variousconstraints on extraction and additional barriers(Mu?ller, 1995; Zaenen, 1983; Pesetsky, 1982;Stepanov, 2001; Koster, 1978).
However, the1Babby?s relevant argument draws on the assumption thatthe silent PRO subject has null dative case in Russian.
Thusa contrastive reflexive doubling the PRO subject appears indative case in non-obligatory control sentences, but must ap-pear in nominative in obligatory control cases.
Babby arguesthat the latter involves no PRO at all, just a bare VP.question why Russian and Polish should differfrom English in this manner continues to be sub-ject to much discussion.LDDs are also missing in the context of socalled A-movement.
Long subject raising is un-available in Russian (even though predicates with?raising?
semantics are available), unlike in Eng-lish, cf.
(7):2(7) *IvanIvankaz?etsjaseemsbyt?to-bebol?nymsickOn the standard view in transformational theory(Chomsky, 1981) both subject raising and ob-ject raising, or Exceptional Case Marking (ECM),cases are explained by the same principles.
In thisrespect, it is not surprising that Russian lacks in-finitival ECM contexts as well (Brecht, 1974; Las-nik, 1998):(8) *IvanIvansc?itaetconsidersMarijuMarybyt?to-beumnojsmartAspectual, or ?phase?
verbs (begin, con-tinue) have sometimes been argued to involvelong (cross-clausal) raising (Perlmutter, 1970).A number of empirical diagnostics applied toRussian clearly demonstrate the monoclausal (sin-gle Tense) character of these constructions in thislanguage (Stepanov, 2006).
For instance, assum-ing that sentential adverbs such as possibly mod-ify the Tense (TP) domain (Watanabe, 1993), ina truly biclausal configuration a lower TP adverbcould in principle have a narrower scope with re-spect to the matrix verb.
However, with Russianaspectuals the situation is different.
In (9) nasledujus?c?ej nedele necessarily modifies the entiresentence, along with vozmoz?no:(9) OnHevozmoz?nopossiblyprodolz?itwill-continuenaonsledujus?c?ejnextnedeleweekc?itat?to-readknigubookOther potential candidates for cross-clausal LDDin Russian such as epistemic modal constructionshave also been argued to involve a single Tensedomain (Schoorlemmer, 1994).
In effect, the cur-rent literature on Russian syntax reveals no clearcases of LDD spanning more than one Tense do-main, and those contexts that have been assumed2The ?small clause?
version of (7) (without byt?)
is al-lowed.
Small clause sentences also involve a single Tensedomain (Stowell, 1981)154to do that (often on analogy with other languages),on closer introspection show the single Tense be-havior, such as those above.A similar state of affairs was found in Pol-ish, where the lack of LDD in the domain of A?-movement out of finite clauses is well documented(see (Giejgo, 1981; Zabrocki, 1981; Witkos, 1981)for A?-movement cases, and (Zabrocki, 1981) forA-movement cases).One may entertain two analytical strategies inhandling the Russian/Polish facts.
One is to lookfor separate analyses of the lack of long A?- andA-dependencies.
We believe such an approachwould miss an important generalization concern-ing the across-the-board character of local move-ment dependencies in these languages.
A more in-triguing and fruitful possibility to explore is thatRussian and Polish only allow dependencies con-fined, roughly speaking, to a single CP.
We callsuch languages ?single cycle?
languages, in con-trast to the more familiar, ?successive cyclic?
lan-guage type (English).
The question to be ad-dressed now is: what is responsible for the ?singlecycle?
property?3 The traditional approachThe standard approach in transformational syntac-tic theory since Chomsky (1965) and to this day(Chomsky, 2001) maintains that syntactic move-ment dependencies are a priori unconstrained bythe size of the structure over which they areformed; in fact, in this approach there are no a pri-ori restrictions on structure building at all.
Thestructure building operation ?Merge?
applies re-cursively until the material available for sentencebuilding (lexical items, previously built chunks ofstructure) is exhausted.
This approach has an in-herent difficulty handling the Russian/Polish factssince it is not clear what would prevent a depen-dency to stretch as long as the size of the structurepermits, in some languages but not others.3 Theusual strategy in this case would be to impose ad-ditional constraints on movement in ?single cycle?languages which do not apply in languages likeEnglish.
This may be satisfactory at some level ofanalysis, but involves a real complication in thistheory.
A more attractive possibility, we believe,would be to have this constraint follow from the3The controversy in formulating the ?successive cyclic?character of LDDs in English and other languages, mentionedin Section 1 is part of that difficulty.architecture of the theory itself.
TAG provides justthe right platform to make this explicit.4 A TAG solutionWe explore the linguistic version of TAG inFrank (2002) which bears close resemblance to themainstream Minimalist model.
In this version ofTAG syntactic movement is naturally limited bythe size of maximal structural domains built byMerge - elementary trees.
Crucially, all movementtakes place within elementary trees, before thesetrees are joined together into a complex structureby designated operations - Substitution and Ad-joining.4 The recursive character of LDDs (?suc-cessive cyclicity?)
is seen in this system as a con-sequence of recursion in structure building at par-ticular structural nodes, such as C?
or T?
(in thesense of X-bar theory).
In particular, the recur-sive aspect of LDD is captured via the structurebuilding operation Adjoining which interposes ad-ditional structure in between the head and the tailof a local dependency at a recursive node within agiven elementary tree (see Section 1).Notably, in virtually all cases of LDDs consid-ered in Frank?s study the additional structure op-erated by Adjoining constituted a Tensed domain.This approach suggests a natural direction to pur-sue with respect to ?single cycle?
languages thatcan be summarized in (10):(10) ProposalTAG-Adjoining is inoperative in ?singlecycle?
languages.If Adjoining is unavailable, there is no wayto combine two elementary trees as in (2).
(10) straightforwardly accounts for the fact thatRussian and Polish feature neither A- nor A?-LDD, that is, the type of constructions in whichrecursive (?successive cyclic?)
movement is in-volved.
This proposal makes no recourse to addi-tional theoretical constructs as the traditional ap-proaches but makes use of the existing machineryof TAG which provides a simple and accurate de-scription of the phenomenon.In effect, (10) implies that a source of paramet-ric variation lies in the phrase structural compo-nent, to which Adjoining naturally belongs.
The4Substitution connects the root node of one elementarytree in an empty slot in another elementary tree, similarlyto a Generalized Transformation of Chomsky (1955/75) orChomsky (1995), Ch.3.155idea of phrase structure as a locus of paramet-ric variation, and implications for child languageacquisition and learnability, have been exploredin detail in Lebeaux (1988/2000), a precursor tostandard Minimalism.
We believe it is possibleto frame (10) in the general scheme of Lebeaux?sparametric model.5 Parametric and acquisitional aspectsLebeaux (1988/2000) proposes that particulargrammars are hierarchically ordered by their com-plexity: a grammar G0 that features operations O1and O2 properly contain a grammar G1 that fea-tures only O1.
Considering the operations Adjoin-?
and Conjoin-?, Lebeaux represents the relevantparametric space as in (11), where arrows are to beread as addition of an operation to the grammar,and parenthesis as ?invisibility?
for the learner.
(11) Adjoin-?
Conjoin-?G0 (( - G1) - G2)Different parametric options correspond to dif-ferent sets of erased parentheses (outermost first).Furthermore, Lebeaux proposes that the paramet-ric sequence (11) actually mirrors (in his terms, is?congruent to?)
the time course of children?s gram-matical development.
That is, in the course of lan-guage development children proceed from less tomore computationally complex grammars, alongthe lines of (11).Frank (1998) takes up the developmental por-tion of Lebeaux?s congruency thesis in the con-text of TAG-Adjoining, suggesting that the de-velopmental sequence for English speaking chil-dren proceeds from the grammar without Adjoin-ing to a grammar with Adjoining.
Viewed inthis manner, the proposal explains, among otherthings, why children learning English initially failto construe even simple cases of long-distancewh-movement or subject to subject raising, whileperforming well on constructions with similarprocessing load that do not involve recursion.Representing Frank?s proposal with Lebeaux typenotation may look as in (12) (Merge and Move op-erate within an elementary tree; cf.
above).
(12) Adjoining...G1Move,Merge - G2In the context of Lebeaux?s congruency thesis,Frank?s proposal begs a question as to whetherthere exist a parametric sequence that correspondsto the proposed developmental sequence.
Frankdoes not attempt an answer.
But now we are ableto fill in this gap.
Specifically, we now say that,indeed, the parametric sequence includes a com-putationally more complex grammar with Adjoin-ing which properly contains the grammar withoutAdjoining, as represented in (13).
(13) Adjoining...G1Move,Merge( - G2)Here, one parametric option is G1 (no parentheseserased) corresponding to ?single cycle?
languageslike Russian and Polish.
The option erasing theparentheses in (13) results in languages with usualrecursive LDDs (English etc).
This is exactly asexpected under the Congruency thesis.
?Single cy-cle?
languages thus provide strong evidence for 1)the TAG operation Adjoining; 2) Lebeaux?s con-gruency thesis; and 3) Frank?s acquisitional se-quence with respect to Adjoining.6 Refining AdjoiningAuxiliary trees, utilized by Adjoining, come intwo varieties, both of which adhere to a princi-pal requirement: the ?root?
and ?foot?
node of suchtree must be categorically identical (e.g.
CP), inorder for Adjoining to succeed.
In one varietythe root node directly dominates the foot node(14-a).
This case corresponds to standard transfor-mational adjunction.
In the second variety there isstructural material between the root and the footnodes (14-b):(14) a) AA Xb) AXAThe recursive structures we are interested in in-volve only the ?interpolation?
variety in (14-b).But (10) refers to the prohibition of Adjoiningin general.
That is, in the present form it istoo powerful: it rules out not only ?interpolated?cases of Adjoining, but also regular cases of base-generated adjunction, e.g.
VP or DP modifiers(adverbs or adjectives).One direction that one might undertake in thisregard is to relax (10) and allow Adjoining forparticular nodes in Russian, while excluding it forothers.
This amounts, essentially, to specifying thelist of recursive nodes for grammars of particular156languages.
In this manner, we automatically con-strain the types of possible auxiliary trees, targetedby Adjoining.
Such lists are commonly used invarious formal versions of TAG (cf.
(Abeille?
andRambow, 2000)).
Our parametric variation couldthen be captured for instance as follows:(15) English: Aux = {TP, CP, VP, DP}Russian: Aux = {VP, DP}Another, more interesting alternative, is to makea principled distinction between the two cases ofAdjoining.
In fact, there is a well establishedlinguistically sound method of distinguishing thetypes of root and foot nodes in (14)a and (14)b.The method goes back to structural distinction be-tween segments and full categories, along the linesof Chomsky (1986) (who, in turn, builds on thework of R. May).
Namely, both nodes labeled Ain (14)a are in fact segments of a single categoryA.
In contrast, the nodes labeled A in (14)b are fullcategories (note that the ?listing?
solution aboveignores this state of affairs).
It seems appropri-ate, therefore, to split Adjoining into two differentoperations, e.g.
Adjunction (which coincides withthe traditional transformational usage) for (14)a,and Interpolation for the case (14)a.
The proposalin (10) then pertains to the latter, without loss ofgenerality.
Details of this alternative are discussedin Stepanov (2006).7 Further issuesThe proposal explored in (10) does not imply thatthe recursive component is completely excludedin ?single cycle?
languages.
Declarative sentenceswith one or more embedded tensed clauses areof course available.
In the linguistic version ofTAG adopted here, those are built by Substitution- at the CP node (for details, see Frank (2002).Furthermore, wh-extraction facts concerning con-trol infinitivals and subjunctives and Russian andPolish suggest that certain recursive structural do-mains (e.g.
VPs in control infinitivals) are builtby Merge within a single elementary tree, andtherefore, that not all prima facie LDDs are ex-clusively handled with Adjoining, in contrast toFrank (2002).
In particular, Adjoining is re-sponsible only for LDDs that involve more thanone Tense domain, while all others are built withMerge within a single elementary tree, and are not,strictly speaking, LDDs at all as they do not dis-play the ?successive cyclic?
character.This raises two further issues.
One issue con-cerns a possible need to slightly modify the crite-ria of well-formedness of elementary trees formedby Merge as discussed by Frank (2002) to allowthe above contexts.
Another issue concerns mak-ing more precise the proper division of labor withrespect to two types of LDDs.
In a system suchas Frank (2002) the distinction can be capturedin terms of selectional restrictions, perhaps of se-mantic kind.
Selection usually plays a crucial rolein forming an elementary tree by Merge: in mostrecent transformational theories, selection directlydetermines a candidate for Merge.
On the otherhand, it is conceivable to suppose that Adjoining -the operation that interpolates one elementary treeinto another after both have already been built byMerge - has little to do with selection.
Therefore,dependencies that are formed via selection in di-rect or indirect manner, cannot be relegated to Ad-joining.
Further aspects of this suggestion remainto be explored.8 ConclusionIntegration of TAG mechanisms into the main-stream linguistic theory leads to a significantwidening of its empirical coverage in various do-mains.
As shown in previous work, a majorstrength of the TAG formalism lies in its greatpotential to capture facts concerning strict local-ity of syntactic dependencies in natural language.The present study applies the TAG machinery inthe domain of well known but ill explained phe-nomenon of radical across-the-board locality ofsyntactic dependencies in two Slavic languages,Russian and Polish.
We have shown that makinguse of the TAG operation Adjoining leads to a sim-ple and straightforward account of this phenom-enon, while the standard (pre-)Minimalist modelof syntax faces conceptual difficulties in this re-gard.
We also provided independent support forthe thesis of congruency of the parametric and ac-quisitional sequences with respect to Adjoining(Lebeaux, 1988/2000; Frank, 1998) and suggestedways of refining Adjoining in light of the new em-pirical data.AcknowledgmentsI am grateful to Robert Frank, Jens Michaelis,Penka Stateva and three anonymous referees forhelpful suggestions.157ReferencesAnne Abeille?
and Owen Rambow (eds).
1986.
TreeAdjoining Grammars: Formalisms, linguistic analy-sis and processing.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Leonard Babby.
1998.
Subject control as directpredication: Evidence from Russian.
In Formal Ap-proaches to Slavic Linguistics: The ConnecticutMeeting, 17-37.
Michigan Slavic Publications.Richard Brecht.
1974.
Tense and infinitive com-plements in Russian, Latin and English.
In Slavictransformational syntax, ed.
Richard D. Brecht andCatherine Chvany, 193-218.
Michigan Slavic Mate-rials, University of Michigan.Noam Chomsky.
1955/1975.
The logical structure oflinguistic theory.
Plenum, New York.Noam Chomsky.
1965.
Aspects of the theory of syntax.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Noam Chomsky.
1981.
Lectures on government andbinding.
Foris, Doredrecht.Noam Chomsky.
1986.
Barriers.
MIT Press, Cam-bridge, MA.Noam Chomsky.
1995.
Minimalist program.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Noam Chomsky.
2000.
Minimalist inquiries: TheFramework.
In Step by step: Essays in honor ofHoward Lasnik, ed.
Roger Martin, David Michaelsand Juan Uriagereka, 89-155.
MIT Press, Cam-bridge, MA.Noam Chomsky.
2001.
Derivation by phase.
In KenHale: A life in language, ed.
Michael Kenstowicz.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Bernard Comrie.
1972.
Aspects of sentence comple-mentation in Russian, Ph.D. thesis.
Cambridge Uni-versity.Robert Frank.
1998.
Structural complexity and thetime course of grammatical development.
Cognition,66:249-301.Robert Frank.
2002.
Phrase structure compositionand syntactic dependencies.
MIT Press, Cambridge,MA.Janina Giejgo.
1981.
Movement rules in Polish syntax,Ph.D.
thesis.
University College London.Jan Koster.
1978.
Locality principles in syntax.
Foris,Doredrecht.Anthony Kroch.
1987.
Unbounded dependencies andsubjacency in a tree adjoining grammar.
In Math-ematics of language, ed.
Alexis Manaster-Ramer,143-172.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Howard Lasnik.
1998.
Exceptional Case Marking:Perspectives old and new.
In Proceedings of FormalApproaches to Slavic Linguistics 6, 187-211.
Michi-gan Slavic Publications, University of Michigan.David Lebeaux.
1988.
Language acquisition and theform of the grammar, Ph.D. thesis, University ofMassachusetts.
Published in 2000 by John Ben-jamins, Amsterdam.Gereon Mu?ller and Wolfgang Sternefeld.
1993.
Im-proper movement and unambiguous binding Lin-guistic Inquiry, 24:461-507.Gereon Mu?ller.
1995.
A-bar syntax: A study of move-ment types.
Mouton de Gruyter.David Perlmutter.
1970.
On the two verbs ?begin?.
InReadings in English transformational grammar, ed.R.
Jacobs and P. Rosenbaum.
Ginn, Waltham, MA.David Pesetsky.
1982.
Paths and categories, Ph.D.thesis.
MIT.M.C.
Picallo.
1984.
The Infl node and the null subjectparameter.
Linguistic Inquiry, 15:75-102.Ljiljana Progovac.
1993.
Locality and subjunctive-likecomplements in Serbo-Croatian.
Journal of SlavicLinguistics, 1:116-144.Maaike Schoorlemmer.
1994.
Aspect and verbal com-plementation in Russian Proceedings of the Ann Ar-bor Workshop on Formal Approaches in Slavic Lin-guistics, 400-422.
Michigan Slavic Publications.Arthur Stepanov.
2001.
Cyclic domains in syntactictheory, Ph.D. thesis.
University of Connecticut.Arthur Stepanov.
2006 (to appear).
?Single cycle?
lan-guages: Implications for cyclicity, recursion and ac-quisition.
In Linguistic Variation Yearbook 6, ed.
Jo-hann Rooryck, Pierre Pica and Jeroen van Craenen-broeck.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Tim Stowell.
1981.
Origins of phrase structure, Ph.D.thesis.
MIT.Arhonto Terzi.
1992.
PRO in finite clauses: A studyof the inflectional heads of the Balkan languages,Ph.D.
thesis.
City University of New York.Akira Watanabe.
1993.
AGR-based Case theory andits interaction with the A?-system, Ph.D. thesis.
MIT.Jacek Witkos.
1981.
Some aspects of phrasal move-ment in English and Polish, Ph.D. thesis.
Uniwer-sytet im.
Adama Mickiewicza, Poznan.Tadeusz Zabrocki.
1981.
Lexical rules of semantic in-terpretation.
Uniwersytet im.
Adama Mickiewicza,Poznan.Annie Zaenen.
1993.
On syntactic binding.
LinguisticInquiry, 14:469-504.158
