Multilingual Extension of a Temporal Expression Normalizer usingAnnotated CorporaE.
Saquete P.
Mart?
?nez-Barco R. Mun?ozgPLSIDLSI.
UAAlicante, Spainfstela,patricio,rafaelg@dlsi.ua.esM.
Negri M. SperanzaITC-irstPovo (TN), Italyfnegri,mansperag@itc.itR.
SprugnoliCELCTTrento, Italysprugnoli@celct.itAbstractThis paper presents the automatic exten-sion to other languages of TERSEO, aknowledge-based system for the recogni-tion and normalization of temporal ex-pressions originally developed for Span-ish1.
TERSEO was first extended to En-glish through the automatic translation ofthe temporal expressions.
Then, an im-proved porting process was applied to Ital-ian, where the automatic translation ofthe temporal expressions from English andfrom Spanish was combined with the ex-traction of new expressions from an Ital-ian annotated corpus.
Experimental re-sults demonstrate how, while still adher-ing to the rule-based paradigm, the devel-opment of automatic rule translation pro-cedures allowed us to minimize the ef-fort required for porting to new languages.Relying on such procedures, and withoutany manual effort or previous knowledgeof the target language, TERSEO recog-nizes and normalizes temporal expressionsin Italian with good results (72% precisionand 83% recall for recognition).1 IntroductionRecently, the Natural Language Processing com-munity has become more and more interestedin developing language independent systems,in the effort of breaking the language barrierhampering their application in real use scenar-ios.
Such a strong interest in multilingual-ity is demonstrated by the growing number of1This research was partially funded by the Spanish Gov-ernment (contract TIC2003-07158-C04-01)international conferences and initiatives plac-ing systems?
multilingual/cross-language capabil-ities among the hottest research topics, such asthe European Cross-Language Evaluation Forum2(CLEF), a successful evaluation campaign whichaims at fostering research in different areas ofmultilingual information retrieval.
At the sametime, in the temporal expressions recognition andnormalization field, systems featuring multilin-gual capabilities have been proposed.
Amongothers, (Moia, 2001; Wilson et al, 2001; Negriand Marseglia, 2004) emphasized the potentiali-ties of such applications for different informationretrieval related tasks.As many other NLP areas, research in auto-mated temporal reasoning has recently seen theemergence of machine learning approaches tryingto overcome the difficulties of extending a lan-guage model to other languages (Carpenter, 2004;Ittycheriah et al, 2003).
In this direction, the out-comes of the first Time Expression Recognitionand Normalization Workshop (TERN 20043) pro-vide a clear indication of the state of the field.
Inspite of the good results obtained in the recog-nition task, normalization by means of machinelearning techniques still shows relatively poor re-sults with respect to rule-based approaches, andstill remains an unresolved problem.The difficulty of porting systems to new lan-guages (or domains) affects both rule-based andmachine learning approaches.
With rule-based ap-proaches (Schilder and Habel, 2001; Filatova andHovy, 2001), the main problems are related tothe fact that the porting process requires rewritingfrom scratch, or adapting to each new language,large numbers of rules, which is costly and time-2http://www.clef-campaign.org/3http://timex2.mitre.org/tern.html1consuming work.
Machine learning approaches(Setzer and Gaizauskas, 2002; Katz and Arosio,2001), on the other hand, can be extended withlittle human intervention through the use of lan-guage corpora.
However, the large annotated cor-pora that are necessary to obtain high performanceare not always available.
In this paper we describea new procedure to build temporal models for newlanguages, starting from previously defined ones.While still adhering to the rule-based paradigm, itsmain contribution is the proposal of a simple, buteffective, methodology to automate the porting ofa system from one language to another.
In this pro-cedure, we take advantage of the architecture of anexisting system developed for Spanish (TERSEO,see (Saquete et al, 2005)), where the recognitionmodel is language-dependent but the normalizingprocedure is completely independent.
In this way,the approach is capable of automatically learningthe recognition model by adjusting the set of nor-malization rules.The paper is structured as follows: Section 2provides a short overview of TERSEO; Section 3describes the automatic extension of the system toItalian; Section 4 presents the results of our evalu-ation experiments, comparing the performance ofIta-TERSEO (i.e.
our extended system) with theperformance of a state of the art system for Italian.2 The TERSEO system architectureTERSEO has been developed in order to automat-ically recognize temporal expressions (TEs) ap-pearing in a Spanish written text, and normalizethem according to the temporal model proposedin (Saquete, 2005), which is compatible with theACE annotation standards for temporal expres-sions (Ferro et al, 2005).
As shown in Figure 1,the first step (recognition) includes pre-processingof the input texts, which are tagged with lexicaland morphological information that will be usedas input to the temporal parser.
The temporalparser is implemented using an ascending tech-nique (chart parser) and is based on a temporalgrammar.
Once the parser has recognized the TEsin an input text, these are passed to the normaliza-tion unit, which updates the value of the referenceaccording to the date they refer to, and generatesthe XML tags for each expression.As TEs can be categorized as explicit and im-plicit, the grammar used by the parser is tuned fordiscriminating between the two groups.
On theTEXTPOSTAGGERRECOGNITION:PARSERLexical andmorphologicalinformationTemporalexpressionrecognitionDATEESTIMATIONDictionaryTemporalExpressionGrammarTEMPORALEXPRESSIONNORMALIZATIONEVENTORDERINGORDEREDTEXTDocumentalDataBaseFigure 1: Graphic representation of the TERSEOarchitecture.one hand, explicit temporal expressions directlyprovide and fully describe a date which does notrequire any further reasoning process to be inter-preted (e.g.
?1st May 2005?, ?05/01/2005?).
Onthe other hand, implicit (or anaphoric) time ex-pressions (e.g.
?yesterday?, ?three years later?
)require some degree of reasoning (as in the caseof anaphora resolution).
In order to translate suchexpressions into explicit dates, such reasoning ca-pabilities consider the information provided by thelexical context in which they occur (see (Saquete,2005) for a thorough description of the reasoningtechniques used by TERSEO).2.1 Recognition using a temporal expressionparserThe parser uses a grammar based on two differ-ent sets of rules.
The first set of rules is in chargeof date and time recognition (i.e.
explicit dates,such as ?05/01/2005?).
For this type of TEs, thegrammar adopted by TERSEO recognizes a largenumber of date and time formats (see Table 1 forsome examples).The second set of rules is in charge of the recog-nition of the temporal reference for implicit TEs,2fecha!
dd+?/?+mm+?/?+(yy)yy (12/06/1975)(06/12/1975)fecha!
dd+?-?+mes+?-?+(yy)yy (12-junio-1975)(12-Jun.-1975)fecha!
dd+?de?+mm+?de?+(yy)yy (12 de junio de 1975)Table 1: Sample of rules for Explicit Dates Recognition.reference!
?ayer?
(yesterday)Implicit dates reference!
?man?ana?
(tomorrow)referring to Document Date reference!
?anteayer?
(the day before yesterdary)Concrete reference!
?el pro?ximo d??a?
(the next day)Implicit Dates reference!
?un mes despue?s?
(a month later)Previous Date Period reference!
num+?an?os despue?s?
(num years later)Imp.
Dates Prev.Date Concrete reference!
?un d?
?a antes?
(a day before)Implicit Dates reference!
?d?
?as despue?s?
(some days later)Previous Date Fuzzy reference!
?d?
?as antes?
(some days before)Table 2: Sample of rules for Implicit Dates recognition.i.e.
TEs that need to be related to an explicit TEto be interpreted.
These can be divided into timeadverbs (e.g.
?yesterday?, ?tomorrow?
), and nom-inal phrases that are referring to temporal relation-ships (e.g.
?three years later?, ?the day before?
).Table 2 shows some of the rules used for the de-tection of these kinds of references.2.2 NormalizationWhen the system finds an explicit temporal ex-pression, the normalization process is direct as noresolution of the expression is necessary.
For im-plicit expressions, an inference engine that inter-prets every reference previously found in the inputtext is used.
In some cases references are solvedusing the newspaper?s date (FechaP).
Other TEshave to be interpreted by referring to a date namedbefore in the text that is being analyzed (FechaA).In these cases, a temporal model that allows thesystem to determine the reference date over whichthe dictionary operations are going to be done, hasbeen defined.
This model is based on the follow-ing two rules:1.
The newspaper?s date, when available, isused as a base temporal referent by default;otherwise, the current date is used as anchor.2.
In case a non-anaphoric TE is found, it isstored as FechaA.
This value is updated ev-ery time a non-anaphoric TE appears in thetext.Table 3 shows some of the entries of the dictio-nary used in the inference engine.3 Extending TERSEO: from Spanishand English to ItalianAs stated before, the main purpose of this paper isto describe a new procedure to automatically buildtemporal models for new languages, starting frompreviously defined models.
In our case, an Englishmodel has been automatically obtained from theSpanish one through the automatic translation ofthe Spanish temporal expressions to English.
Theresulting system for the recognition and normal-ization of English TEs obtains good results bothin terms of precision (P) and recall (R) (Saquete etal., 2004).
The comparison of the results betweenthe Spanish and the English system is shown inTable 4.SPANISH ENGLISHDOCS 50 100POS 199 634ACT 156 511CORRECT 138 393INCORRECT 18 118MISSED 43 123P 88% 77%R 69% 62%F 77% 69%Table 4: Comparison between Spanish TERSEOand English TERSEO.This section presents the procedure we followedto extend our system to Italian, starting from theSpanish and English models already available, anda manually annotated corpus.
In this case, bothmodels have been considered as they can be com-plemented reciprocally.
The Spanish model was3REFERENCE DICTIONARY ENTRY?ayer?
Day(FechaP)-1/Month(FechaP)/Year(FechaP)(yesterday)?man?ana?
Day(FechaP)+1/Month(FechaP)/Year(FechaP)(tomorrow)?anteayer?
Day(FechaP)-2/Month(FechaP)/Year(FechaP)(the day before yesterday)?el pro?ximo d??a?
Day(FechaP)+1/Month(FechaP)/Year(FechaP)(the next day)?un mes despue?s?
[DayI/Month(FechaA)+1/Year(FechaA)--(a month later) DayF/Month(FechaA)+1/Year(FechaA)]num+?an?os despue?s?
[01/01/Year(FechaA)+num --(num years later) 31/12/Year(FechaA)+num]?un d?
?a antes?
Day(FechaA)-1/Month(FechaA)/Year(FechaA)(a day before)?d?
?as despue?s?
>>>>FechaA(some days later)?d?
?as antes?
<<<<FechaA(some days before)Table 3: Normalization rulesmanually obtained and evaluated showing highscores for precision (88%), so better results couldbe expected when it is used.
However, in spite ofthe fact that the English model has shown lowerresults on precision (77%), the on-line transla-tors between Italian and English have better re-sults than Spanish to Italian translators.
As a re-sult, both models are considered in the followingsteps for the multilingual extension: Firstly, a set of Italian temporal expressionsis extracted from an Italian annotated corpusand stored in a database.
The selected cor-pus is the training part of I-CAB, the Ital-ian Content Annotation Bank (Lavelli et al,2005).
More detailed information about I-CAB is provided in Section 4. Secondly, the resulting set of Italian TEsmust be related to the appropriate normaliza-tion rule.
In order to do that, a double transla-tion procedure has been developed.
We firsttranslate all the expressions into English andSpanish simultaneously; then, the normaliza-tion rules related to the translated expressionsare obtained.
If both the Spanish and En-glish expressions are found in their respec-tive models in agreement with the same nor-malization rule, then this rule is also assignedto the Italian expression.
Also, when onlyone of the translated expressions is found inthe existing models, the normalization ruleis assigned.
In case of discrepancies, i.e.
ifboth expressions are found, but not coincid-ing in the same normalization rule, then oneof the languages must be prioritized.
As theSpanish model was manually obtained andhas shown a higher precision, Spanish rulesare preferred.
In other cases, the expressionis reserved for a manual assignment. Finally, the set is automatically augmentedusing the Spanish and English sets of tem-poral expressions.
These expressions werealso translated into Italian by on-line ma-chine translation systems (Spanish-Italian4 ,English-Italian5).
In this case, a filteringmodule is used to guarantee that all the ex-pressions were correctly translated.
Thismodule searches the web with Google6 forthe translated expression.
If the expressionis not frequently found, then the translationis abandoned.
After that, the new Italian ex-pression is included in the model, and relatedto the same normalization rule assigned to theSpanish or English temporal expression.The entire translation process has been com-pleted with an automatic generalization process,oriented to obtain generalized rules from the con-crete cases that have been collected from the cor-4http://www.tranexp.com:2000/Translate/result.shtml5http://world.altavista.com/6http://www.google.com/4pus.
This generalization process has a double ef-fect.
On the one hand, it reduces the number ofrecognition rules.
On the other hand, it allows thesystem to identify new expressions that were notpreviously learned.
For instance, the expression?Dieci mesi dopo?
(i.e.
?Ten months later?)
couldbe recognized if the expression ?Nove mesi dopo?(i.e.
Nine months later) was learned.The multilingual extension procedure (Figure 3)is carried out in three phases:SpanishTemporalRecognitionModelSpanish-ItalianTRANSLATORTEs FILTERKEYWORDS UnitNEW TEsFINDERRULEASSIGNMENTSGoogleWordNetItalian TEsItalian TEsTemporal  keywordsNew Italian TEsNew Normalizer ruleItalianTemporalNormalizerModelOnlineDictionariesITALIAN TEsGRAMATICSGeneratorEnglishTemporalRecognitionModelItalianI-CABCorpusEnglish-ItalianTRANSLATORItalian-SpanishTRANSLATORItalian-EnglishTRANSLATORSpanishTemporalNormalizerModelEnglishTemporalNormalizerModelItalian TEsItalian generalized TEsPhase1Phase2Phase3Figure 2: Multilingual extension procedure. Phase 1: TE Collection.
During this phase,the Italian temporal expressions are col-lected from I-CAB (Italian Content Annota-tion Bank), and the automatically translatedItalian TEs are derived from the set of Span-ish and English TEs.
In this case, the TEsare filtered removing those not being foundby Google. Phase 2: TE Generalization.
In this phase,the TEs Gramatics Generator uses the mor-phological and syntactical information fromthe collected TEs to generate the grammat-ical rules that generalize the recognition ofthe TEs.
Moreover, the keyword unit is ableto extract the temporal keywords that will beused to build new TEs.
These keywords areaugmented with their synonyms in WordNet(Vossen, 2000) to generate new TEs. Phase 3: TE Normalizing Rule Assignment.In the last phase, the translators are used torelate the recognizing rule to the appropriatenormalization rule.
For this purpose, the sys-tem takes advantage of the previously definedSpanish and English temporal models.4 EvaluationThe automatic extension of the system to Italian(Ita-TERSEO) has been evaluated using I-CAB,which has been divided in two parts: training andtest.
The training part has been used, first of all,in order to automatically extend the system.
Af-ter this extension, the system was evaluated bothagainst the training and the test corpora.
The pur-pose of this double evaluation experiment was tocompare the recall obtained over the training cor-pus with the value obtained over the test corpus.An additional evaluation experiment has alsobeen carried out in order to compare the perfor-mance of the automatically developed system witha state of the art system specifically developed forItalian and English, i.e.
the Chronos system de-scribed in (Negri and Marseglia, 2004).In the following sections, more details about I-CAB and the evaluation process are presented, to-gether with the evaluation results.4.1 The I-CAB CorpusThe evaluation has been performed on the tem-poral annotations of I-CAB (I-CAB-temp) cre-ated as part of the three-year project ONTOTEXT7funded by the Provincia Autonoma di Trento.I-CAB consists of 525 news documentstaken from the local newspaper L?Adige(http://www.adige.it).
The selected news sto-ries belong to four different days (September, 7thand 8th 2004 and October, 7th and 8th 2004) andare grouped into five categories: News Stories,Cultural News, Economic News, Sports Newsand Local News.
The corpus consists of around182,500 words (on average 347 words per file).The total number of annotated temporal expres-sions is 4,553; the average length of a temporalexpression is 1.9 words.The annotation of I-CAB has been carried outadopting the standards developed within the ACEprogram (Automatic Content Extraction8) for theTime Expressions Recognition and Normalization7http://tcc.itc.it/projects/ontotext8http://www.nist.gov/speech/tests/ace5tasks, which allows for a semantically rich andnormalized annotation of different types of tempo-ral expressions (for further details on the TIMEX2annotation standard for English see (Ferro et al,2005)).The ACE guidelines have been adapted tothe specific morpho-syntactic features of Italian,which has a far richer morphology than English.In particular, some changes concerning the exten-sion of the temporal expressions have been in-troduced.
According to the English guidelines,in fact, definite and indefinite articles are consid-ered as part of the textual realization of an entity,while prepositions are not.
As the annotation isword-based, this does not account for Italian artic-ulated prepositions, where a definite article and apreposition are merged.
Within I-CAB, this typeof preposition has been included as possible con-stituents of an entity, so as to consistently includeall the articles.An assessment of the inter-annotator agreementbased on the Dice coefficient has shown that thetask is a well-defined one, as the agreement is95.5% for the recognition of temporal expressions.4.2 Evaluation processThe evaluation of the automatic extension ofTERSEO to Italian has been performed in threesteps.
First of all, the system has been evaluatedboth against the training and the test corpora withtwo main purposes: Determining if the recall obtained in the eval-uation of the training part of the corpus is abit higher than the one obtained in the eval-uation of the test part of I-CAB, due to thefact that in the TE collection phase of the ex-tension, temporal expressions were extractedfrom this part of the corpus. Determining the performance of the automat-ically extended system without any manualrevision of both the Italian translations andthe resolution rules automatically related tothe expressions.Secondly, we were also interested in verifyingif the performance of the system in terms of pre-cision could be improved through a manual revi-sion of the automatically translated temporal ex-pressions.Finally, a comparison with a state of the art sys-tem for Italian has been carried out in order to es-timate the real potentialities of the proposed ap-proach.
All the evaluation results are comparedand presented in the following sections using thesame metrics adopted at the TERN2004 confer-ence.4.2.1 Evaluation of Ita-TERSEOIn the automatic extension of the system, a to-tal of 1,183 Italian temporal expressions have beenstored in the database.
As shown in Table 5, theseexpressions have been obtained from the differentresources available: ENG ITA: This group of expressions hasbeen obtained from the automatic translationinto Italian of the English Temporal Expres-sions stored in the knowledge DB. ESP ITA: This group of expressions has beenobtained from the automatic translation intoItalian of the Spanish Temporal Expressionsstored in the knowledge DB. CORPUS: This group of expressions hasbeen extracted directly from the training partof the I-CAB corpus.Source N %ENG ITA 593 50.1ESP ITA 358 30.3CORPUS 232 19.6TOTAL TEs 1183 100.0Table 5: Italian TEs in the Knowledge DB.Both the training part and the test part of I-CABhave been used for evaluation.
The results of pre-cision (P), recall (R) and F-Measure (F) are pre-sented in Table 6, which provides details about thesystem performance over the general recognitiontask (timex2), and the different normalization at-tributes used by the TIMEX2 annotation standard.As expected, recall performance over the train-ing corpus is slightly higher.
However, althoughthe temporal expressions have been extracted fromsuch corpus, in the automatic process of obtain-ing the normalization rules for these expressions,some errors could have been introduced.Comparing these results with those obtained bythe automatic extension of TERSEO to Englishand taking into account the recognition task (seeTable 4), precision (P) is slightly better for En-glish (77% Vs. 72%) whereas recall (R) is betterin the Italian extension (62% Vs. 83%).
This is6Ita-TERSEO: TRAINING Ita-TERSEO: TEST Chronos: TESTTag P R F P R F P R Ftimex2 0.694 0.848 0.763 0.726 0.834 0.776 0.925 0.908 0.917anchor dir 0.495 0.562 0.526 0.578 0.475 0.521 0.733 0.636 0.681anchor val 0.464 0.527 0.493 0.516 0.424 0.465 0.495 0.462 0.478set 0.308 0.903 0.459 0.182 1.000 0.308 0.616 0.5 0.552text 0.265 0.324 0.292 0.258 0.296 0.276 0.859 0.843 0.851val 0.581 0.564 0.573 0.564 0.545 0.555 0.636 0.673 0.654Table 6: Results obtained over I-CAB by Ita-TERSEO and Chronos.due to the fact that in the Italian extension, moretemporal expressions have been covered with re-spect to the English extension.
In this case, infact, Ita-TERSEO is not only using the temporalexpressions translated from the English or Spanishknowledge database, but also the temporal expres-sions extracted from the training part of I-CAB.4.2.2 Manual revision of the acquired TEsA manual revision of the Italian TEs stored inthe Knowledge DB has been done in two steps.First of all, the incorrectly translated expressions(from Spanish and English to Italian) were re-moved from the database.
A total of 334 expres-sions were detected as wrong translated expres-sions.
After this, another revision was performed.In this case, some expressions were modified be-cause the expressions have some minor errors inthe translation.
213 expressions were modified inthis second revision cycle.
Moreover, since patternconstituents in Italian might have different ortho-graphical features (e.g.
masculine/feminine, ini-tial vowel/consonant, etc.
), new patterns had to beintroduced to capture such variants.
For exam-ple, as months?
names in Italian could start witha vowel, the temporal expression pattern ?nell?-MONTH?
has been inserted in the KnowledgeDB.
After these changes, the total amount of ex-pressions stored in the DB are shown in Table 7.Source N %ING ITA 416 47.9ESP ITA 201 23.1CORPUS 232 26.7REV MAN 20 2.3TOTAL TEs 869 100.0Table 7: Italian TEs in the Knowledge DB aftermanual revision.In order to evaluate the system after this manualrevision, the training and the test part of I-CABhave been used.
However, the results of preci-sion (PREC), recall (REC) and F-Measure wereexactly the same as presented in Table 6.
Thatis not really surprising.
The existence of wrongexpressions in the knowledge database does notaffect the final results of the system, as they willnever be used for recognition or resolution.
Thisis because these expressions will not appear in realdocuments, and are redundant as the correct ex-pression is also stored in the Knowledge DB.4.2.3 Comparing Italian TERSEO with alanguage-specific systemFinally, in order to compare Ita-TERSEO witha state of the art system specifically designed forItalian, we chose Chronos (Negri and Marseglia,2004), a multilingual system for the recognitionand normalization of TEs in Italian and English.Like all the other state of the art systems address-ing the recognition/normalization task, Chronosis a rule-based system.
From a design point ofview, it shares with TERSEO a rather similar ar-chitecture which relies on different sets of rules.These are regular expressions that check for spe-cific features of the input text, such as the pres-ence of particular word senses, lemmas, partsof speech, symbols, or strings satisfying specificpredicates.
Each set of rules is in charge of deal-ing with different aspects of the problem.
Inparticular, a set of around 350 rules is designedfor TE recognition and is capable of recogniz-ing with high Precision/Recall rates both explicitand implicit TEs.
Other sets of regular expres-sions, for a total of around 700 rules, are usedin the normalization phase, and are in charge ofhandling a specific TIMEX2 attribute (i.e.
VAL,SET, ANCHOR VAL, and ANCHOR DIR).
Theresults obtained by the Italian version of Chronosover the test part of I-CAB are shown in the lastthree columns of Table 6.As expected, the distance between the resultsobtained by the two systems is considerable.
How-ever, the following considerations should be takeninto account.
First, there is a great difference, both7in terms of the required time and effort, in the de-velopment of the two systems.
While the imple-mentation of the manual one took several months,the porting procedure of TERSEO to Italian is avery fast process that can be accomplished in lessthan an hour.
Second, even if an annotated corpusfor a new language is not available, the automaticporting procedure we present still remains feasi-ble.
In fact, most of the TEs for a new languagethat are stored in the Knowledge DB are the resultof the translation of the Spanish/English TEs intosuch a target language.
In our case, as shown inTable 5, more than 80% of the acquired Italian TEsresult from the automatic translation of the expres-sions already stored in the DB.
This makes the pro-posed approach a viable solution which allows fora rapid porting of the system to other languages,while just requiring an on-line translator (note thatthe Altavista Babel Fish translator9 provides trans-lations from English to 12 target languages).
Inlight of these considerations, the results obtainedby Ita-TERSEO are encouraging.5 ConclusionsIn this paper we have presented an automatic ex-tension of a rule-based approach to TEs recogni-tion and normalization.
The procedure is basedon building temporal models for new languagesstarting from previously defined ones.
This proce-dure is able to fill the gap left by machine learningsystems that, up to date, are still far from provid-ing acceptable performance on this task.
As re-sults illustrate, the proposed methodology (eventhough with a lower performance with respect tolanguage-specific systems) is a viable and effec-tive solution for a rapid and automatic porting ofan existing system to new languages.ReferencesB.
Carpenter.
2004.
Phrasal Queries with LingPipeand Lucene.
In 13th Text REtrieval Conference,NIST Special Publication.
National Institute of Stan-dards and Technology.L.
Ferro, L. Gerber, I. Mani, B. Sundheim, and G. Wil-son.
2005.
TIDES 2005 Standard for the annotationof temporal expressions.
Technical report, MITRE.E.
Filatova and E. Hovy.
2001.
Assigning time-stampsto event-clauses.
In ACL, editor, Proceedings of the2001 ACL Workshop on Temporal and Spatial Infor-mation Processing, pages 88?95, Toulouse, France.9http://world.altavista.com/A.
Ittycheriah, L.V.
Lita, N. Kambhatla, N. Nicolov,S.
Roukos, and M. Stys.
2003.
Identifying andTracking Entity Mentions in a Maximum EntropyFramework.
In ACL, editor, Proceedings of theNAACL Workshop WordNet and Other Lexical Re-sources: Applications, Extensions and Customiza-tions.G.
Katz and F. Arosio.
2001.
The annotation of tem-poral information in natural language sentences.
InACL, editor, Proceedings of the 2001 ACL Work-shop on Temporal and Spatial Information Process-ing, pages 104?111, Toulouse, France.A.
Lavelli, B. Magnini, M. Negri, E. Pianta, M. Sper-anza, and R. Sprugnoli.
2005.
Italian Content An-notation Bank (I-CAB): Temporal expressions (v.1.0.
): T-0505-12.
Technical report, ITC-irst, Trento.T.
Moia.
2001.
Telling apart temporal locating adver-bials and time-denoting expressions.
In ACL, editor,Proceedings of the 2001 ACL Workshop on Tempo-ral and Spatial Information Processing, Toulouse,France.M.
Negri and L. Marseglia.
2004.
Recognition andnormalization of time expressions: Itc-irst at TERN2004.
Technical report, ITC-irst, Trento.E.
Saquete, P.
Mart?
?nez-Barco, and R. Mun?oz.
2004.Evaluation of the automatic multilinguality for timeexpression resolution.
In DEXA Workshops, pages25?30.
IEEE Computer Society.E.
Saquete, R. Mun?oz, and P.
Mart??nez-Barco.
2005.Event ordering using terseo system.
Data andKnowledge Engineering Journal, page (To be pub-lished).E.
Saquete.
2005.
Temporal information Resolutionand its application to Temporal Question Answer-ing.
Phd, Departamento de Lenguages y SistemasInforma?ticos.
Universidad de Alicante, June.F.
Schilder and C. Habel.
2001.
From temporal expres-sions to temporal information: Semantic tagging ofnews messages.
In ACL, editor, Proceedings of the2001 ACL Workshop on Temporal and Spatial Infor-mation Processing, pages 65?72, Toulouse, France.A.
Setzer and R. Gaizauskas.
2002.
On the impor-tance of annotating event-event temporal relationsin text.
In LREC, editor, Proceedings of the LRECWorkshop on Temporal Annotation Standards, 2002,pages 52?60, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria,Spain.P.
Vossen.
2000.
EuroWordNet: Building a Multilin-gual Database with WordNets in 8 European Lan-guages.
The ELRA Newsletter, 5(1):9?10.G.
Wilson, I. Mani, B. Sundheim, and L. Ferro.
2001.A multilingual approach to annotating and extract-ing temporal information.
In ACL, editor, Pro-ceedings of the 2001 ACL Workshop on Temporaland Spatial Information Processing, pages 81?87,Toulouse, France.8
