Proceedings of the Third ACL-SIGSEM Workshop on Prepositions, pages 45?50,Trento, Italy, April 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Ontology-Based View on Prepositional SensesTine LassenRoskilde UniversityDenmarktlassen@ruc.dkAbstractThis paper describes ongoing work, aimedat producing a lexicon of prepositions, i.e.relations denoted by prepositions, to beused for information retrieval purposes.The work is ontology based, which for thisproject means that the ontological types ofthe arguments of the preposition are con-sidered, rather than the word forms.
Thus,sense distinctions are made based on onto-logical constraints on the arguments.1 IntroductionIn traditional web search engines, information re-trieval relies more or less exclusively on sim-ple string match.
In the OntoQuery project1,ontology-based search in text databases is per-formed based on a match between the concep-tual content of the search phrase and the text seg-ments in the database.
(Andreasen et al, 2002; An-dreasen et al, 2004).
In short, concepts are identi-fied through their corresponding surface form andmapped into an ontology.
The use of an ontologymakes it possible to introduce the notion of con-ceptual distance and thereby ranking the search re-sult by semantic similarity.
E.g.
?pony?
and ?ze-bra?
may be more similar concepts than ?pony?and ?lion?, because the distance when traversinga graph representation of the ontology is longergoing from ?pony?
to ?lion?
than from ?pony?
to?zebra?.
See figure 1 for a simplified excerpt ofthe ontology.However, only relatively simple noun phrasesare currently recognized and mapped into the on-tology, and we are thus investigating the possibil-ities of expanding the scope of our concept-based1http://www.ontoquery.dkFigure 1: Excerpt from the ontology with the con-cepts ?horse?
and ?cat?analysis by including the semantic relations thathold between noun phrases.
Our first experimentsin this have been an analysis of prepositions andtheir surrounding noun phrases.
The immediateaim is to be able to include a lexicon of preposi-tions, consisting of a lexicon entry for each senseof a given preposition (a sense, in this context, isa relation that it can denote).
Each entry has anargument structure and ontological constraints onthe arguments.
Thus, a preposition in a given con-text will be assigned a pertinent sense based on theontological types of its surrounding noun phrases.If this can be achieved, we will be able to say, e.g.,that the text segments ?she is riding her pony in themorning?
and ?he was riding a pony during thewar?
are more closely related, i.e.
the relationaldistance is smaller, than any of the two to ?shewas riding her pony in the hall?.
The relations thathold between ?pony?
and ?morning?, and ?pony?and ?war?, denoted by in and during respectively,are of a temporal nature, whereas the relation thatholds between ?pony?
and ?hall?, denoted by in, isof a locative nature.
The notion of relational dis-tance is similar to that of conceptual distance; thedistance when traversing a graph representation ofthe relation ontology.
A combined measure, thattakes into account both the conceptual and rela-45tional distance would have to be introduced in or-der to express the combined distance between suchmore complex structures (structures that are morecomplex than the simple noun phrases, that is), butthis question is beyond the scope of this paper2.Initially, we use a predefined set of relations thatwas originally proposed in (Nilsson, 2001) (seetable 1).
This set is hierarchically unstructured,which means that per default, the conceptual dis-tance between any given two pairs of relations isthe same.
We will later introduce an ontology ofrelations, which will make it possible to expressthat the distance between e.g.
the partitive and thelocative relation is smaller than the distance be-tween the locative and the causal relation (see sec-tion 4.1).2 ApproachWe are using a bottom-up approach, in which wemanually annotate a corpus3 with semantic rela-tions for all occurences of prepositions that aresurrounded by noun phrases.
Further we anno-tate the heads of the surrounding noun phraseswith their ontological type and subsequently an-alyze the result in order to produce ontologicalconstraint rules.
The ontology that was used forthe ontological type annotation, is the SIMPLE topontology (Pedersen, 1999; Lenci et al, 2000).Relations exist between the entities referred to indiscourse, and can exist at different syntactic lev-els; across sentence boundaries as in Peter ownsa pony.
It is stubborn , or whithin a sentence, aphrase or a word.
The relations can be denoted bydifferent parts of speech, such as a verb, a prepo-sition or an adjective, or they can be implicitlypresent in compounds and genitive constructionsas in Peter?s pony.The following account is based on the work of(Jensen and Nilsson, 2006): Semantic relations aren-ary (where n?1): In the example Peter owns apony the verb ?owns?
denotes a binary relation be-tween Peter and a pony, and in example Peter gavethe pony a carrot, the verb ?give?
denotes a ternaryrelation between Peter, the pony and a carrot.
Inthe example The pony in the field the preposition?in?
denotes a binary relation between the pony2For a discussion of a distance measure between nounphrases, see e.g.
(Bulskov and Andreasen, 2004) or (Knappeand Andreasen, 2002)3The corpus is a small corpus of approximately 18,500running words has been compiled from texts from the domainof nutrition.and the field.
In the framework of this project,however, we will only consider binary relationsdenoted by prepositions.
Using the algebraic de-scription language OntoLog (Nilsson, 2001), weexpress binary relations as A[REL:B], where thefirst argument of the relation, A, relates to the sec-ond argument, B, in the manner REL.A preposition, however, can be ambiguous in re-gard to which relation it denotes (we assume a re-stricted set of possible relations for prepositions,see table 1).
As an example, let us consider theDanish preposition i (Eng: in): The surface form iin ?A i B?
can denote at least five different relationsbetween A and B:1.
A patient relation PNT; a relation where one of the ar-guments?
case role is patient, e.g.
?
?ndringer i stof-skiftet?
(changes in the metabolism).2.
A locational relation LOC; a relation that denotes thelocation/position of one of the arguments compared tothe other argument, e.g.
?skader i hjertemuskulaturen?
(injuries in the heart muscle).3.
A temporal relation TMP; a relation that denotes theplacement in time of one of the arguments comparedto the other, e.g.
?generalforsamlingen i 1981?
(thegeneral assembly in 1981).4.
A property ascription relation CHR; a relation that de-notes a characterization relation between one of the ar-guments and a property, e.g.
?antioxidanter i renfrem-stillet form?
(antioxidants in a pure form)5.
A ?with respect to?
relation WRT; an underspecified re-lation that denotes an ?aboutness?
relation between thearguments, e.g.
?forskelle i saltindtagelsen?
(differ-ences in the salt intake) .Role DescriptionTMP Temporal aspectsLOC Location, positionPRP Purpose, functionWRT With respect toCHR Characteristic (property ascription)CUM Cum (i.e., with, accompanying)CBY Caused byCAU CausesBMO By means of, instrument, viaCMP Comprising, has partPOF Part ofAGT Agent of act or processPNT Patient of act or processSRC Source of act or processRST Result of act or processDST Destination of moving processTable 1: The set of possible relations used in theannotation process (Nilsson, 2001)463 ResultsFollowing the initial annotation, we performed ananalysis of all occurences of the relations and theontological types of their arguments.
Could weidentify patterns that could result in lexical rulesfor the lexicon?
The limited space here does notallow us to show the full results of the analysis,so we will focus on one preposition, the Danishpreposition i (Eng: in) and later focus on onerelation type denoted by that preposition, namelythe locative relation.
There are 199 occurences ofthe preposition i in the corpus, and the relationsthat it denotes are distributed as follows:LOC (137/199 : 68,8%)WRT (25/199 : 12,5%)TMP (17/199 : 8,5%)PNT (11/199 : 5.5%)CHR (9/199 : 4,5%)If we look at the LOC relation, which is themost frequent relation denoted by i in the corpus,we get this distribution of ontological types for thearguments: Of the 137 instances of i denoting alocative relation, there are 57 different ontologicaltype-pairs, if we consider unique occurences of agiven onlogical type-pair (a pair, meaning the on-tological types of the two arguments combined),31 different first arguments, and 16 different sec-ond arguments.
The most significant ontologicaltype for arguments is the type ?body part?
(BPA),which occurs 10 times as first argument, and 66times as second argument.
However, in total, thetype occurs 119 times (13 times as first argumentand 106 times as second argument) in the corpusas a whole.
If we were to implement a rule thatwould assign the relation LOC to any prepositionthat has the ontological type ?body part?
as any ar-gument, we would get a precision4 score of 68.9.,a higher score of 92.3 if we only consider the firstargument, and 66 if we only consider the secondargument.However, if we limit the rule to assign the relationLOC only to occcurences of the preposition i, witharguments of the type BPA, then we get a precisionscore of 100.
This sounds promising, but it shouldbe noted that the coverage of the best rule ?IF anyargument is BPA AND preposition is ?i?
THEN as-4Precision = number of correct matches / number ofmatchessign LOC to preposition?
is quite low: the recall5score for the rule is 55.8, which means that we cancorrectly assign a relation to 55.8% of the LOCsenses of the preposition i, and these only makeup 68.8% of the total number of i-occurences.
Infact, we can only correctly assign the LOC rela-tion to 38.7% of the actual relations denoted by iin the corpus using this rule.
Only if we can pro-duce more rules of this type with high precisionscores, we can be optimistic about the outcome ofthe project.Rule Precision RecallIF any argument is BPATHEN assign LOC to preposition 68.9 56.5IF first argument is BPATHEN assign LOC to preposition 92.3 8.3IF second argument is BPATHEN assign LOC to preposition 66 48.3IF any argument is BPAAND preposition is ?i?THEN assign LOC to preposition 100 55.8IF first argument is BPAAND preposition is ?i?THEN assign LOC to preposition 100 7.2IF second argument is BPAAND preposition is ?i?THEN assign LOC to preposition 100 48.6Table 2: Precision and recall scores for rules thatassign the LOC relation to prepositions with aBPA constraint on the ontological type of argu-ments4 Suggestions to improve the resultsIn the following, we propose a way of improvingthe results by introducing a relation ontology, andfurther, by either generalizing or specializing theontological type level for the arguments.
Ourhypothesis is that by doing this, we will endup with rules that have broader coverage.
Bycoverage, we mean the number of occurencesthat the rule applies to, compared to the numberof occurences that potentially could be coveredby the rule.If the relations are too general, thenwe miss out on some of the semantic content ofthe relation between the items that we consider,and we want to capture as much semantics as wecan.
On the other hand, in some cases it may bethat we have made distinctions in the relation setthat are not detectable when analyzing the data.Also, if the ontological type distribution for the5Recall = number of correct matches / ideal number ofmatches47arguments is too coarse or too fine grained, thepatterns that appear when we analyze the data,will not be general enough to produce rules from.4.1 The relation ontologyThe flat list of possible relations, as can be seenin table 1, that we initially used, now has to betransformed into a relation ontology.
Our heuris-tics for doing this, in short, is to group relationsthat are more closely related than others in sub-branches, such that the distance between them isshorter than the distance to other less closely re-lated relations.
In figure 2, the intralocal and ex-tralocal relations are more closely related than e.g.the intralocal and dynamic relation, because thedistance when traversing the graph is two archs forthe former, and three arcs for the latter.
One wayof deciding relatedness, is to say that if two rela-tions have proven difficult to differentiate in theinitial annotation process, then they are probablymore closely related.
This is the approach we havechosen.
Also, we have grouped together other re-lations, such as the bidirective relations ?part of?and ?has parts?, and ?causes?
and ?caused by?, andother relations that naturally group together, suchas the theta roles ?agent?-?patient?
and ?source?-?result?.A possible next step is to specialize the rela-tions that can be specialized.
The relations thatintuitively make sense to specialize are the tem-poral (as has been done in OWL-Time ontology(formerly DAML-Time) (Hobbs and Pan, 2004)),partitive (Winston and Hermann, 1987) and spa-tial/local relations (e.g.
DOLCE Spatialrel ontol-ogy)6.Our work with specialisations of the relationontology, particularly the local relations, is largelyinspired by Pustejovsky?s work on event struc-tures (Pustejovsky, 1996).
Pustejovsky suggests asubdivision of complex events into subevents.However, another way of expressing the dif-ference between events with one or moresubevents is, as we will do in the following,static and dynamic relations: static relations onlyconsist of one subevent, and dynamic relationshave more than one subevent.?
A dynamic locative relation is a com-plex event, that consists of more than one6http://www.loa-cnr.it/Files/DLPOnts/SpatialRel 397.owlFigure 2: Illustration of static locative relationssubevent, and it denotes a source or a goal ofa process, or a place where a process unfolds.?
A static locative relation consists of just onesubevent, and it denotes ?being located at?.Another type of specialisation of the locative re-lation could be a subdivision into relations con-cerning area, region, distance, etc.
(as it has beendone in DOLCE), but the aforementioned staticand dynamic locative relations appears to be moreappropriate when the subject is relations denotedby prepositions.As a possible further specialisation of dynamicand static relations we suggest:?
Intralocal: an intralocal relation denotes agoal of a process (e.g.
into the box), or alocation within a delimited area.?
Extralocal: an extralocal relation denotes apoint of departure of a process (e.g.
out ofthe box), or a location outside or touchingthe outer limitation of a delimited area.?
Translocal: a translocal relation denotes alocation or a process through a delimitedarea (e.g.
through the box).48Figure 4: Excerpt of the relation ontology containing the locative relationsFigure 3: Illustration of dynamic locative relationsWe now reannotate the locative relations ac-cording to these new subtypes of the locative re-lation; but conforming to the bottom-up approach,we initially only subdivide into static and dynamiclocative relations.
Can we observe a clearer pat-tern with respect to the ontological types of thearguments, if we do this?
If so, then we try a morefine grained subdivision.The results of the LOC dynamic and LOC staticsubdivision show that of the original 137 instancesof i that denote a locative relation, 33 denote aLOC dynamic relation, and 104 denote a LOCstatic relation.
The patterns that we observe, areactually clearer: for all, but one, of the dynamicrelations the first arguments denote some kind ofprocess or event, whereas the second argumentsare all more or less specialized types of concreteentity.
The most prevalent ontological type for thestatic local relation is ?natural substance?, whichoccurs 50 times.
For the dynamic local relation,the most prevalent relation for the first argument is?change?, which occurs 17 times.
The most preva-lent second argument is again ?body part?, whichalso occurs 17 times.
If we now calculate preci-sion and recall for rules that constrain argumentsof the static and dynamic locative relations to themost prevalent ones, we get the results shown intables 3 and 4.
However, we only calculate scoresfor rules constraining the first argument, and onlyfor the preposition i, because only part of the cor-pus has been annotated with these relations.The precision score for the best rule is lowerthan for the original LOC-rules (92.1 comparedto 100).
However, considering that we capturemore semantics, and the fact that the arguments ofthe static and dynamic locative relations are more49Rule Precision RecallIF any argument is BPAAND preposition is ?i?THEN assign LOC>static to preposition 64.1 48.1IF first argument is NSUAND preposition is ?i?THEN assign LOC>static to preposition 92.1 33.7IF second argument is BPAAND preposition is ?i?THEN assign LOC>static to preposition 68.7 47.1Table 3: Precision and recall scores for the rulethat assign the LOC>static relation to the preposi-tion i with constraints on the ontological types theargumentsRule Precision RecallIF first argument is CHAAND preposition is ?i?THEN assign LOC>dynamic to preposition 58.6 51.5IF second argument is BPAAND preposition is ?i?THEN assign LOC>dynamic to preposition 25.4 51.5Table 4: Precision and recall scores for the rulethat assign the LOC>dynamic relation to thepreposition i with constraints on the ontologicaltype of the first and second argumentuniform in their distribution, this indicates that ageneralisation of the ontological types of the ar-guments will result in even better rules, i.e.
ruleswith a larger coverage.5 Conclusion and further workOur aim is to show that ontological types can beused as constraints in a lexicon of semantic rela-tions denoted by prepositions.
In this paper wehave presented our preliminary results, that arebased on an analysis of a Danish corpus, com-piled of texts from the domain of nutrition.
Wehave introduced an ontology of relations, whichwill make it possible to measure relational dis-tance between complex structures in addition tothe conceptual distance that we can measure be-tween concepts.
The results are promising: Wecan produce rules that have good precision scoresfor the locative relation, and we expect to improvethe rules by generalizing the ontological types ofthe prepositional arguments.
Also, we plan to ex-pand our research to cover other relations than theones treated in this paper.6 AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Troels Andreasen, PerAnker Jensen and three anonymous reviewers forfruitful comments and suggestions.ReferencesTroels Andreasen, Per Anker Jensen, J?rgen FischerNilsson, Patrizia Paggio, Bolette Sandford Pedersen,and Hanne Erdman Thomsen.
2002.
Ontologicalextraction of content for text querying.
In LectureNotes in Computer Science, volume 2553, pages 123?
136.
Springer-Verlag.Troels Andreasen, Per Anker Jensen, J?rgen FischerNilsson, Patrizia Paggio, Bolette Sandford Pedersen,and Hanne Erdman Thomsen.
2004.
Content-basedtext querying with ontological descriptors.
Data &Knowledge Engineering, 48(2):199?219.R.
Knappe H. Bulskov and T. Andreasen.
2004.
Per-spectives on ontology-based querying.
Interna-tional Journal of Intelligent Systems, to appear.Jerry R. Hobbs and Feng Pan.
2004.
An ontology oftime for the semantic web.
ACM Trans.
Asian Lang.Inf.
Process., 3(1):66?85.Per Anker Jensen and J?rgen Fischer Nilsson, 2006.Syntax and Semantics of Prepositions, volume 29of Text, Speech and Language Technology, chap-ter Ontology-Based Semantics for Prepositions.Springer.H.
Bulskov R. Knappe and T. Andreasen, 2002.
Flex-ible Query Answering Systems, chapter On Measur-ing Similarity for Conceptual Querying, pages pp.100?111.
Number 2522 in Lecture Notes in Artifi-cial Intelligence.Alessandro Lenci, Nuria Bel, Federica Busa, Nico-letta Calzolari1, Elisabetta Gola, Monica Mona-chini, Antoine Ogonowski, Ivonne Peters, Wim Pe-ters, Nilda Ruimy, Marta Villegas, and AntonioZampolli.
2000.
Simple: A general framework forthe development of multilingual lexicons.
Interna-tional Journal of Lexicography, 13(4):249?263.J?rgen Fischer Nilsson.
2001.
A logico-algebraicframework for ontologies, ontolog.
In Jensen andSkadhauge, editors, Proceedings of the First Inter-national OntoQuery Workshop Ontology-based in-terpretation of NP?s.
University of Southern Den-mark, Kolding.Bolette Sandford Pedersen.
1999.
Den danske simple-ordbog.
en semantisk, ontologibaseret ordbog.
InC. Poulsen, editor, DALF 99, Datalingvistisk Foren-ings a?rsm?de 1999.
Center for sprogteknologi.James Pustejovsky.
1996.
The generative lexicon.MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.Roger Winston, Morton E. Chaffin and Douglas Her-mann.
1987.
A taxonomy of part-whole relations.Cognitive Science, 11:417?444.50
