Proceedings of the Fourth International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 41?43,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsAdjective-to-Verb Paraphrasing in JapaneseBased on Lexical Constraints of VerbsAtsushi Fujita?
Naruaki Masuno??
Satoshi Sato?
Takehito Utsuro?
?Graduate School of Engineering, Nagoya University?
?IBM Engineering & Technology Services, IBM Japan, Ltd.?Graduate School of Systems and Information Engineering, University of TsukubaAbstractThis paper describes adjective-to-verbparaphrasing in Japanese.
In this para-phrasing, generated verbs require addi-tional suffixes according to their differencein meaning.
To determine proper suffixesfor a given adjective-verb pair, we have ex-amined the verbal features involved in thetheory of Lexical Conceptual Structure.1 IntroductionTextual expressions that (roughly) convey thesame meaning are called paraphrases.
Since gen-erating and recognizing paraphrases has a poten-tial to contribute to a broad range of natural lan-guage applications, such as MT, IE, and QA, manyresearchers have done a lot of practices on auto-matic paraphrasing in the last decade.Most previous studies have addressed para-phrase phenomena where the syntactic categoryis not changed: e.g., noun-to-noun (?document??
?article?
), verb-to-verb (?raise??
?bring up?
).In these inner-categorial paraphrasing, only lim-ited types of problems arise when replacing wordsor phrases with their synonymous expressions.On the other hand, this paper focuses on inter-categorial paraphrasing, such as adjective-to-verb(?attractive?
?
?attract?)
that leads to novel typeof problems due to the prominent differences inmeaning and usage.
In other words, calculatingthose differences is more crucial to determine howthey can or cannot be paraphrased.The aim of this study is to clarify what lexicalknowledge is required for capturing those differ-ences, and to explore where such a knowledge canbe obtained from.
Recent work in lexical seman-tics has shown that syntactic behaviors and seman-tic properties of words provide useful informa-tion to explain the mechanisms of several classesof paraphrases.
More specifically, lexical proper-ties involved in the theory of Lexical ConceptualStructure (LCS) (Jackendoff, 1990) have seemedto be beneficial because each verb does not func-tion idiosyncratically.
However, in the literature,there have been less studies for other syntacticcategories than verbs.
To the best of our knowl-edge, the Meaning-Text Theory (MTT) (Mel?c?ukand Polgue`re, 1987) is one of the very few frame-works.
In MTT, lexical properties and inter-categorial paraphrasing are realized with a uniquesemantic representation irrespective of syntacticcategories and what are called lexical functions,e.g., S0(receive) = reception.To make out how the recent advances in lexi-cal semantics for verbs can be extended to othersyntactic categories, we assess LCS for inter-categorial paraphrasing.
We choose adjectives asa counterpart of paraphrasing because they behaverelatively similar to verbs compared with othercategories: both adjectives and verbs have inflec-tion and function as predicates, adnominal ele-ments, etc.
Yet, we speculate that their differencein meaning and usage reveal intriguing generationproblems.
To put it briefly, adjective-to-verb para-phrasing in Japanese requires verbal suffixes suchas ?ta (past / attributive)?
in example (1)1:(1) s. furui otera-no jushoku-o tazune-ta.be old temple-GEN priest-ACC to visit-PASTI visited a priest in the old temple.t.
furubi-ta otera-no jushoku-o tazune-ta.to olden-ATTR temple-GEN priest-ACC to visit-PASTI visited a priest in the olden(ed) temple.2 Preliminary investigationTo make an investigation into the variation anddistribution of required verbal suffixes, we col-lected a set of paraphrase examples through thefollowing semi-automatic procedure:Step 1.
We handcrafted adjective-verb pairsbased on JCore (Sato, 2004), which classifiesJapanese words into five-levels of readability.Our 128 pairs (for 85 adjectives) contain onlythose sharing first few phonemes (reading)1For each example, ?s?
and ?t?
denote an original sen-tence and its paraphrase, respectively.41Table 1: Distribution of verbal suffixes used.Verbal suffix Cadc Cpr1Cpr2ru 9 16 0tei-ru 5 42 0re-ru 14 8 0re-tei-ru 2 5 0ta 57 0 7tei-ta 2 0 2re-ta 6 0 1re-tei-ta 0 0 1both ta and tei-ru 4 0 0both ta and ru 1 0 0tea-ru 0 2 0Total 100 73 11whereru: base formtei: progressive / perfectivere: passive / potentialta: past / attributivetea: perfectiveand characters (kanji), and either of adjectiveor verb falls into the easiest three levels.Step 2.
Candidate paraphrases for a given sen-tence collection are automatically generatedby replacing adjectives with their corre-sponding verbs.
Multiple candidates are gen-erated for adjectives that correspond to mul-tiple verbs.Step 3.
The correctness of each candidate para-phrase is judged by two human annotators.The basic criterion for judgement is that twosentences are regarded as paraphrases if andonly if they share at least one interpretation.In this step, the annotators are allowed to re-vise candidates: (i) append verbal suffixes,(ii) change of case markers, and (iii) insertadverbs.
Finally, candidates that both anno-tators judge correct qualify as paraphrases.Assuming that the variation and distribution ofverbal suffixes vary according to the usage of ad-jectives, we separately collected paraphrase exam-ples for adnominal and predicative usages.Adnominal usages: For 960 sentences randomlyextracted from a one-year newspaper corpus,Mainichi 1995, we obtained 165 examples for 142source sentences.
We then divided them into twoportions: 12 adjectives that appeared only onceand at least one examples for the other adjectiveswere kept unseen (Cado), while the remaining ex-amples (Cadc) were used for our investigation.Predicative usages: For 157 example sentenceswithin IPAL adjective dictionary (IPA, 1990), wegenerated candidate paraphrases.
84 candidatesfor 70 sentences qualified as paraphrases.
Theyare then divided into two portions according tothe tense of adjectives: Cpr1consists of exampleswhere adjectives appear in base form and Cpr2isfor ?ta?
form (past tense).Table 1 shows the distribution of verbal suffixesused for given adjective-verb pairs in each portionof example collections.
We confirmed that theirdistribution was fairly different.
In the remainingsections, we focus on adnominal usages becauseexamples of predicative usages have displayed adegree of compositionality.
Which of ?ru?
or ?ta?must be used is given by the input: if a given ad-jective accompanies past tense, the resultant ver-bal suffix is necessarily that for present tense fol-lowed by ?ta.
?3 Determining verbal suffixesThe task we address here is to determine verbalsuffixes for a given input, a pair of an adnominalusage of adjective in a certain context and a candi-date verb given by our adjective-verb list.From the viewpoint of language generation,this task can be thought of as generating verbalexpressions where options are already given inTable 1.
A straightforward way for determiningverbal suffixes is to make use of lexical propertiesof verbs as constraints on generation.
To manifestthem, in particular aspectual properties involvedin LCS, we first designed seven types of linguis-tic tests shown in Table 2.
They are derived froma classical analysis of verb semantics in Japanese(Kageyama, 1996) and some ongoing projects onconstructing LCS dictionaries (Kato et al, 2005;Takeuchi et al, 2006).
We then manually ex-amined 128 verbs in Section 2 under those tests.To determine the word sense in which the deriva-tive relationship hold good, example sentences inIPAL verb dictionary (IPA, 1987) for each verbwere used.
For a verb which was out of the dic-tionary, we manually gave a sample sentence.Since our aim is to explain why a certain ver-bal suffix is used for a given input, we have notfeverishly applied a machine learning algorithm tothe task.
Instead, we have manually created a rule-based model shown in Table 3 using Cadc, whereeach if-then rule assigns either of verbal suffixes inTable 1 to a given input based on verbal features inTable 2 and some other features below:?
D: affix pair of the adjective and the candi-date verb: e.g., ?A shii-V mu?
for ?kuyashii(be regretful)?
?
?kuyamu (to regret)??
N : disjunction of semantic classes in a the-saurus (The Natural Institute for JapaneseLanguage, 2004) for the modified noun?
C: whether the adjective is head of clause4 Experiment and discussionBy conducting an empirical experiment with Cadcand Cado, we evaluate how our model (RULE)properly determines verbal suffixes.
A compar-ison with a simple baseline model (BL) is alsodone.
BL selects the most frequently used suffix(in this experiment ?ta?)
for any given input.42Table 2: Linguistic tests for verbs derived from Lexical Conceptual Structure (Kageyama, 1996).Label DescriptionVa whether the verb allows accusative caseVb whether the verb can co-occur with a temporal adverb ?ichi-jikan (for one hour)?
or its variantVc whether the verb can co-occur with a temporal adverb ?ichi-jikan-de (in one hour)?
or its variantVd whether the verb can be followed by ?tearu (perfective)?
when its accusative case is moved to nominativeVe interpretation of the verb followed by ?tei-ru (progressive / perfective)?Vf when followed by ?ta,?
whether the verb can have the perfective interpretation or just past tenseVg whether the verb can co-occur with a sort of adverb which indicates intention of the action: e.g.
?wazato (purposely)?
and ?iyaiya (reluctantly)?Table 3: The rule-set for determining verbal suf-fixes, where ?(non)?
indicates non-paraphrasable.Order Condition (conjunction of ?feature label =?
value?)
Verbal suffix1 Va=?yes??
Vb=?yes?
?
Vf=?no?
?
re-ruN=?except Human (1.10)?
?D=?A ui?V bumu?
?
?A i?V mu?
?
?A asii?V u?2 Va=?yes??
Vb=?yes?
?
Vf=?no?
?
taVd=?no?
?N=?Mind: mind, attitude (1.303)?3 Va=?no?
?
Vg=?yes?
ta4 Va=?no?
?
Vf=?yes?
?D=?A i?V migakaru?
ta / tei-ru5 C=?clause?
?D=?A i?V maru?
ru6 Va=?no?
?
Vf=?yes?
ta7 Va=?no?
?
Vb=?yes??
Vf=?no?
ta8 Vb=?yes?
?
Vf=?no?
?
Vc=?yes??
tei-ruVd=?yes??
Ve=?progressive?
?N=?Subject (1.2)?9 ?
(non)Table 4 shows the experimental results, whererecall and precision are calculated with regardto input adjective-verb pairs.
Among rules inTable 3, rules 1 (for ?re-ru?
), 3, 6, and 7 (for ?ta?where Va=?no?)
performed much better than theother rules.
This indicates that these rules and fea-tures in their conditions properly reflect our lin-guistic intuition.
For instance, rule 6 reflects thata change-of-state intransitive verb expresses re-sultative meaning as adjectives when it modifiesTheme of the event via ?ta?
(Kageyama, 1996)as shown in (1), and rule 2 does that a psycho-logical verb modifies a nouns with ?re-ru?
whenthe noun arouses the specific emotion, such as re-gretting mistakes (e.g., ?kuyashii (be regretful)??
?kuyama-re-ru (be regretted)?).
The aspectualproperty captured by the tests in Table 2 is used toclassify verbs into these semantic classes.On the other hand, the rules for the other typesare immature due to lack of examples: we cannotfind out even necessary conditions to be ?ru,?
?tei-ru,?
etc.
What is required to induce proper con-ditions for these suffixes is a larger example col-lection and discovering another semantic propertyand a set of linguistic tests for capturing it.5 Conclusion and future workIn this paper, we focused on inter-categorial para-phrasing and reported on our study on an issuein adjective-to-verb paraphrasing.
Two general-purpose resources and a task-specific rule-set havebeen handcrafted to generate proper verbal suf-fixes.
Although the rule-based model has achievedbetter performance than a simple baseline model,there is a plenty of room for improvement.Table 4: Recall and precision of determining ver-bal suffix for given adjective-verb pairs.Cadc CadoVerbal suffix Recall Precision Recall Precisionta (Va=?yes?)
3/13 3/3 1/6 1/1ta (Va=?no?)
42/44 42/63 18/18 18/29re-ru 12/14 12/19 7/13 7/11ru 3/9 3/6 0/2 0/5tei-ru 1/5 1/7 2/8 2/6ta / tei-ru 2/4 2/2 1/2 1/1No rule for 11 inputs for 7 inputsTotal (RULE) 63/100 63/100 29/56 29/53(63%) (63%) (52%) (55%)BL 57/100 57/148 24/56 24/83(57%) (39%) (43%) (29%)Future work includes (i) to enlarge our tworesources as in (Dorr, 1997; Habash and Dorr,2003) evolving an effective construction method,(ii) intrinsic evaluation of those resources, and, ofcourse, (iii) to enhance the paraphrasing modelsthrough further experiments with a larger test-set.ReferencesB.
J. Dorr.
1997.
Large-scale dictionary construction forforeign language tutoring and interlingual machine trans-lation.
Machine Translation, 12(4):271?322.N.
Habash and B. J. Dorr.
2003.
A categorial variationdatabase for English.
In Proceedings of the 2003 HumanLanguage Technology Conference and the North Ameri-can Chapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (HLT-NAACL), pages 17?23.IPA.
1987.
IPA Lexicon of the Japanese language for com-puters (Basic Verbs).
Information-technology PromotionAgency.
(in Japanese).IPA.
1990.
IPA Lexicon of the Japanese language for com-puters (Basic Adjectives).
Information-technology Pro-motion Agency.
(in Japanese).R.
Jackendoff.
1990.
Semantic structures.
The MIT Press.T.
Kageyama.
1996.
Verb semantics.
Kurosio Publishers.
(in Japanese).T.
Kato, S. Hatakeyama, H. Sakamoto, and T. Ito.
2005.Constructing Lexical Conceptual Structure dictionary forverbs of Japanese origin.
In Proceedings of the 11th An-nual Meeting of the Association for Natural LanguageProcessing, pages 871?874.
(in Japanese).I.
Mel?c?uk and A. Polgue`re.
1987.
A formal lexicon inmeaning-text theory (or how to do lexica with words).Computational Linguistics, 13(3-4):261?275.S.
Sato.
2004.
Identifying spelling variations of Japanesewords.
In Information Processing Society of Japan SIGNotes, NL-161-14, pages 97?104.
(in Japanese).K.
Takeuchi, K. Inui, and A. Fujita.
2006.
Construction ofcompositional lexical database based on Lexical Concep-tual Structure for Japanese verbs.
In T. Kageyama, editor,Lexicon Forum No.2.
Hitsuji Shobo.
(in Japanese).The Natural Institute for Japanese Language.
2004.
Wordlist by semantic principles, revised and enlarged edition.Dainippon Tosho.
(in Japanese).43
