Proceedings of the Fifth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processing, pages 33?39,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantic Analysis of Chinese Garden-Path SentencesYaohong JinInstitute of Acoustics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080, Chinajinyaohong@hotmail.comAbstractThis paper presents a semantic model forChinese garden-path sentences.
Based onthe Sentence Degeneration model ofHNC theory, a garden-path can arisefrom two types of ambiguities: SD typeambiguity and NP allocated ambiguity.This paper provides an approach to proc-ess garden-paths, in which ambiguity de-tection and analysis take the place of re-vision.
The performance of the approachis evaluated on a small manually anno-tated test set.
The results show that ouralgorithm can analyze Chinese gar-den-path sentences effectively.1 IntroductionA characteristic of garden-path sentences is thatthey contain a temporarily ambiguous verbstructure, in which a participle is confused withthe main verb of the sentence.
For example, con-sider the sentence While Anna dressed the babyspit up on the bed.
Initially the baby is assumedto be the object of dressed, but when spit up isencountered, some sort of error arises.
This ini-tial process, then, must be somehow revised.This paper models the phenomenon of gar-den-path sentences in Chinese and addresses themechanisms of semantic analysis.
Let v1 be thefirst verb in the sentence and v2 the second verb.Modeling the garden-path that arising from twoverbs like v1 and v2 will the focus of this paper.Models of reanalysis, which concern the syn-tactic relationships between the error signal andthe head of the phrase that has been misanalyzed(Frazier, 1998), attempt to explain how the revi-sions take place.
However, for Chinese gar-den-path sentence analysis, the syntactic rela-tionship is not enough because the samesyntactic relationship can have different semanticinterpretations.
For example, ?????
?which is temporarily ambiguous in Chinese hasdifferent interpretations in the following twosentences.
In the first sentence ?
(dog) is thesubject of ??
(killed), and in the second it isthe object of ??(killed).
(1) ?????????
(The dog, whichkilled the hunter, had run away).
(2) ???????????????
(Itis the only way for the bear to run away thatkilled the hunter?s dog).So, semantic analysis is important for Chinesegarden-path sentences.
In this paper, garden-pathsentences will be modeled using the SentenceDegeneration model (SD) of the HierarchicalNetwork of Concepts theory (HNC) (Huang,1998; 2004).
Furthermore, our analysis algorithm,in which ambiguity analysis takes the place of arevision process, is introduced.
We evaluated themodel and the algorithm using a small sentenceset with grammatical structures likeNP1+V1+NP2+v2+NP3.
The experiment resultsshow that our algorithm can efficiently processChinese garden-path sentences.In the rest of this paper: Section 2 discussesprevious work.
Section 3 gives a detailed defini-tion of the Sentence Degeneration model.
Sec-tion 4 describes in detail the Semantic Model ofChinese garden-path sentences.
Section 5 de-scribes the algorithm and section 6 gives evalua-tion results.
Section 7 presents our conclusionsand future work.2 Previous WorkThe phenomenon of garden-path sentences hasattracted a lot of attention in the research com-33munities of psycholinguistics and computationallinguistics.
The goal of this research is to dis-cover how people understand garden-path sen-tences and how to analyze them automatically.In English, garden-path sentences always in-volve a subordinate clause and a main clause to-gether with an NP that attaches initially to theformer but ultimately to the latter (Karl and Fer-nanda, 2003).
This NP is the point of misunder-standing and the verb after the NP is always theerror signal.
Models of reanalysis are aimed atdescribing and motivating the mechanisms usedby the sentence comprehension system to detecterrors, deduce useful information about the na-ture of the necessary repair of those errors, andultimately create a successful analysis (Ferreiraand Christianson, 2001).
Fodor and Inoue(1998)proposed the principles of Attach Anyway andAdjust to explain how reanalysis processes oper-ate.
Ferreira and Christianson(2001) stated thatReflexive Absolute Transitive (RAT) verbs, suchas wash, bathe, shave, scratch, groom, and so on,are likely to give rise to garden-paths.
Michael J.Pazzani(1984) demonstrated how to reanalyzeone type of garden-path sentence that arises froma passive participle and a main verb conflicting.However Ferreira and Henderson(2001) demon-strated that reanalysis is more difficult when thehead of the misanalyzed phrase (baby in the babythat was small and cute) is distant from the errorsignal.In Chinese, there has been little research thatdirectly addresses the problem of garden-paths.Zhiwei Feng(2003) interpreted the temporarilyambiguous verb structure in a garden-path in twoways; one is as a subordinate clause (MV), theother is a Reduced Relative (RR).
He definedGarden Path Degree (GPD) as MV/RR.
He stud-ied some types of temporarily ambiguous verbstructures such as NP1+VP+NP2+de+NP3,VP+NP1+de+NP2, V+Adj+de+N andV+V+de+N, and stated that when GPD is largerthan 3, the temporarily ambiguous verb structuremay give rise to a garden-path.
Moreover heused the Earley algorithm to process garden-pathsentences.3 Sentence Degeneration model (SD)The Sentence Degeneration model, which is onemodel of the Hierarchical Network of Conceptstheory (HNC), focuses on representing the sub-ordinate clause in a sentence.
The theory of theHierarchical Network of Concepts (HNC theory),founded by Prof. Zengyang Huang of the Insti-tute of Acoustics, Chinese Academy of Sciences,is a theoretical approach to Natural LanguageProcessing (NLP).
The objective of HNC is toestablish natural language representation patternsbased on the association veins of concepts, whichcan simulate the language perception process ofthe human brain and can be applied to computa-tional Natural Language Understanding.Sentence Degeneration (SD) represents thesemantic patterns of the subordinate clause in asentence.
There are three types of SD: prototypeSD, key-element SD, and packed SD.In Prototype SD a subordinate clause whollyacts as one role of the other sentence without anyalteration.
For example, ??????????
(China joined the WTO) is a complete sen-tence.
However in sentence (3) this sentence actsas the subject of??(accelerate).
Unlike Eng-lish, in Chinese there is no relative pronoun, suchas that or which, to indicate that this is a subor-dinate clause.
This phenomenon is named Proto-type SD.
(3) ????????????????????
(That China joined the WTO will accel-erate the development of global economics.
).Key-element SD involves an NP which se-mantically is an attributive clause.
For example,although in sentence (4) ???????????
is an NP, it can be transformed from thesentence ??????????
by movingthe subject ??
to the tail and adding the Chi-nese word ?
(of or ?s) in front of it.
We look atthis NP as a specific attributive clause1 in Chi-nese, and look at ??
as the core concept ofthis clause.
Because the core concept of thisclause is the subject, which is the key element,this phenomenon is called key-element SD.
Be-sides the subject, the object and the verb of thesentence can be the core of key-element SD.
Forexample, in sentence (5) ??????????
is one key-element SD transformed from thesentence ???????
?, and the verb ??
is its core.
(4) ????????????????????
(China, which joined WTO, will strictlyconfirm the world trade rule.
)(5) ????????????????
(Everything of all reflected the influence thatChina economics impacts on the world).Packed SD is also an NP in which the attrib-1 This NP has to be translated as an attributive clause usingwhich in English.34uter is a prototype SD or key-element SD.
Forexample, in sentence (6) and (7) both nounphrases ?????????????
and????????????
are Packed SD?s.Moreover, the attributer of ??
is ??????????
which is a prototype SD, and theattributer of ??
is ?????????
?which is a key-element SD.
The words ?
?and ??
are called packed words.
(6) ?????????????????
(The news that China joined WTO is exciting.
)(7) ?????????????????
(The degree of influence that Chinese economicsimpacts on the world is deeper and deeper.
)Let ElJ be the semantic structure of the subor-dinate clause, GBKi be the subject/object, and Elbe the verb of the clause.
The semantic pattern ofthe clause can be given asElJ=GBK1+El+GBK2+GBK3, where GBK2 andGBK3 can be absent and the position of GBKican be changed.
Suppose ElJ-GBKi stands forthe action of subtracting the GBKi from ElJ,ElJ-El stands for subtracting the El.
The seman-tic patterns of SD can be given as follows:1.
ElJ.
It means that ElJ is a prototype SD.2.
(ElJ-GBKi)+?+GBKi.
It means that thiskey-element SD can be transformed from theclause ElJ by moving GBKi to the tail andadding the Chinese word ?
in front ofGBKi.3.
(ElJ-El)+ ?
+El.
It means that thiskey-element SD can be transformed from theclause ElJ by moving El to the tail and add-ing the Chinese word ?
in front of El.
Al-though this El looks like a noun becausethere is Chinese word ?
in front of it, it isregarded as a verb when restored back to theElJ.4.
a prototype SD or key-element SD+{?}+noun.
It means the three patterns abovecan serve as the attributer of the packed SD.Although the key-element SD and packed SDlook like NP?s in Chinese, they need to be trans-formed back into clauses during semantic analy-sis.
It means that in patterns 2 and 3 the GBKiand El have to be restored into ElJ.
This is whywe named these phenomena Sentence Degenera-tion.
Moreover, in patterns 2 and 3, the Chineseword ?
is necessary to indicate the transforma-tion, and we call it a sign of SD.Therefore, if an NP or other structure includesa verb and the Chinese word ?, it has to beanalyzed as one type of SD.
These semantic pat-terns of SD are useful for describing the inter-pretation of temporarily ambiguous verb struc-tures, such as those in garden-path sentences.4 Semantic Model of Chinese Gar-den-Path SentenceBased on the Sentence Degeneration model,there are two types of Chinese Garden-Path Sen-tences: SD type ambiguity garden-paths and NPallocated ambiguity garden-paths.A temporarily ambiguous verb structure in asentence always has more than one semantic in-terpretation that can be represented as a type ofSD.
This phenomenon we call SD type ambiguity.If an SD type ambiguity includes a prototype SD,a garden-path arises.
For example, an ambiguousstructure like ??????
has two differentinterpretations as A and B in sentence (1) and(2):A.
It is a key-element SD in sentence (1),where ?
(dog) is the subject of ??
(kill), and??
(hunter) is the object of ??(kill).B.
It is a prototype SD in sentence (2), where?
(dog) is the object of ??
(kill), and ??
(hunter) is the attributer of?
(dog).Obviously, ??????
has SD type am-biguity, and one type of SD is prototype SD.Therefore, sentence (1) and sentence (2) are gar-den-path sentences.An NP allocated ambiguity garden-path is asentence in which one NP can be both the objectof v1 and the subject of v2.
Given the structureNP1+v1+NP2+v2+NP3, if NP1+v1+NP2 is aclause, NP2+v2+NP3 is a clause, too; there is anambiguity about whether NP2 serves as eitherthe object of the first clause or the subject of thesecond clause.
Unlike the garden-path that arisesfrom an SD type ambiguity, NP allocated ambi-guity garden-paths confuse the main verb of thesentence.
For example, Sentence (8) has two dif-ferent interpretations as A and B.
The differencein the two interpretations is the role of the solu-tion.
So, sentence (8) is a garden-path sentencewith an NP allocated ambiguity.(8)?????????????
(The stu-dent forgot the solution was in the back of thebook.)A.
the solution is the subject of was, the mainverb is forgot; the solution was in the back of thebook, which is a prototype SD, is the object of35forgot.B.
the solution is the object of forgot, the mainverb is was, the student forgot the solution, whichis a prototype SD, is the subject of was.We can see that it is necessary for both typesof garden-path that NP1+v1+NP2 be a clause.
Ifthere is an NP allocated ambiguity garden-path,NP1+v1+NP2 is a clause together withNP2+v2+NP3 as a clause.
If there is an SD typeambiguity garden-path, NP1+v1+NP2 has to bea prototype SD together with one of other twotypes of SD (Key-element SD or packed SD).Thus, this clause, NP1+v1+NP2, is called a gar-den-path detecting signal.Therefore, in our model the garden-path isrepresented as one of two types of ambiguity: theSD type ambiguity and NP allocated ambiguity.Garden-path processing involves detecting andanalyzing these two types of ambiguities.5 Algorithm for processing Chinese Gar-den-Path SentencesA Chinese Garden-Path Sentence is processedin four steps:(1) Initially, v1 is analyzed as the main verb.
(2) When v2 is encountered, if there is a clausebefore v2, this is a garden-path detectingsignal.
It is necessary to detect and analyzethe garden-path in this sentence.
(3) Detect if v1 and v2 can give rise to a gar-den-path (see section 5.1).
(4) Determine the main verb of the sentence andthe semantic interpretation of the gar-den-path sentence (see section 5.2).5.1 Garden-path detectionGiven an input string S, suppose its gram-matical structure is NP1+v1+NP2+v2+NP3,where NP1 and NP3 can be absent.
Therefore, agarden-path detecting signal means thatNP1+v1+NP2 is a clause.The garden-path can be detected in two stepsas follows:Step 1: test if there is SD type ambiguity inNP1+v1+NP2.We can look at the clause NP1+v1+NP2 as aprototype SD without any change.
If this proto-type SD can be analyzed as another type of SD,such as key-element or packed SD, an SD typeambiguity is found, and the input S is a gar-den-path sentence.
Otherwise, if there is no SDtype ambiguity, the input S is a non garden-pathsentence.As mentioned above, sentence (1) has an am-biguity between a prototype and a key-elementSD, and it is a garden-path sentence.
Consideranother sentence (9), with grammatical structureNP1+v1+NP2+v2.
Because the Chinese word?
(of) in NP2 is a sign of SD, the structure canbe rewritten as NP1+v1+NP21+?+NP22+v2.
(9) ????????????
(The paperwhich Mr. wang research on Luxun is published.
)The structure NP1+v1+NP21+?+NP22 can beanalyzed in two different ways as follows.
Ob-viously there is an ambiguity between prototypeSD and packed SD, and sentence (9) is a gar-den-path sentence.A.
It is a prototype SD, where ??
(paper) isthe object of ??
(research), and ??
(paper)was written by??(Luxun).B.
It is a packed SD, where ??
(Luxun) isthe object of ??
(research), and ??
(paper)was written by ??(Mr.
wang).Although the structure v1+NP2+v2 in sen-tence (1) and the structure NP1+v1+NP2+v2 insentence (9) can give rise to garden-paths, not allthe instances of these two structures are like this.For example, in sentence group (10) ???
(younger) and ?
(knife) disfavor being objectsof ??
(love) and ?
(peel), so ????????
is only analyzed as a key-element SD, and???????
is only analyzed as a packedSD.
There is no garden-path detecting signal, sothese sentences are non garden-path sentences.
(10) ???????????
(Theyounger who love his country go back.)??????????
(The knife withwhich Mr. wang peeled the apple is lost.
)Furthermore, in sentence group (11), v1+NP2is a clause, so there is a garden-path detectingsignal.
However, ?
(fruit skin) disfavors beingthe subject of ?
(peel), and ?
(door) is not apacked word, so ?????
and ????????
are only analyzed as prototype SD.There is no SD type ambiguity, so these sen-tences are non garden-path sentences.
(11) ????????
(Peeling the appleneed to be careful.)??????????
(Mr. wang openedthe door and went away.
)Step 2: test if NP2+v2+NP3 is a clause.If NP2+v2+NP3 is not a clause, definitelythere is no NP allocated ambiguity, and the sen-tence is not a garden-path sentence.
For example,36in sentence (12) ??????????
(Iraqis due to the crisis of energy) is not a clause, sosentence (12) is a non garden-path sentence.
(12) ??????????????
(ThatUSA attacked Iraq is due to the crisis of energy)If NP2+v2+NP3 is a clause, there are two in-terpretations for v1 and v2.First, v1 and v2 are serial verbs, and the sen-tence can be divided into two separate sentences;one is NP1+v1+NP2, the other is NP2+v2+NP3and the subject of v2 is NP2.
For example, sen-tence (13) can be divided into sentences (14) and(15).
This phenomenon can be interpreted assentence (15) sharing ??
(conference) withsentence (14), which is not NP allocated ambigu-ity, so the sentence (13) is a non garden-pathsentence.
(13) ??????????
(The file willbe given to the conference to discuss.
)(14) ????????
(The file will begiven to the conference.
)(15) ????????
(The conferencewill discuss the file.
)Second, one of v1 and v2 is the main verb ofthe sentence, and NP2 has to be in NP1+v1+NP2or NP2+v2+NP3, and cannot be shared.
Forexample, in sentence (8), the solution cannot beshared by forgot and was.
Absolutely this is anNP allocated ambiguity, and the sentence is agarden-path sentence.The difference between a serial verb interpre-tation and an NP allocated ambiguity interpreta-tion is the semantic information of the two verbs.Suppose VS(pro) is the set of all verbs whosesubject can be a prototype SD, VO(pro) is the setof all verbs whose object can be a prototype SD.Verbs about mental acts, emotions or other hu-man feelings, such as forget, worry, cry, belongto the VS(pro).
Verbs about propositions, causesand results, such as be, result in, be due to, be-long to both VO(pro) and VS(pro).If NP2+v2+NP3 is a clause, and if v1 is not oneof VO(pro) and v2 is not one of VS(pro), the sen-tence is a non garden-path sentence and thesetwo verbs are serial verbs.
Otherwise, the sen-tence is a garden-path sentence.5.2 Garden-path analysisA garden-path is always affected by the selec-tion of the main verb of a sentence.
In the gar-den-path caused by SD ambiguity, v1 is regardedas the main verb initially, however, in the end, v2is the real main verb.
In the garden-path causedby NP allocated ambiguity, both v1 and v2 can bethe main verb.
So, the garden-path analysis in-cludes two steps: the first step is determining themain verb of the sentence; the second step isdisambiguating the SD type or the NP allocatedambiguity, and determining the semantic struc-ture of the sentence.Given a garden-path sentence with grammati-cal structure NP1+v1+NP2+v2+NP3, the analy-sis process is as follows:First, if an SD type ambiguity is detected, itmeans NP1+v1+NP2 can be a prototype SD andkey-element or packed SD, and v2 always is themain verb of the sentence.
The ambiguity can beprocessed as in Figure 1.
For example, In sen-tences (1) and (2), ?
(is) is one of VS(pro) and??
(run away) is not, so ??????
isprocessed as a key-element SD in sentence (1)and a prototype SD in sentence (2).Second, if an NP allocated ambiguity is de-tected, it means that both NP1+v1+NP2 andNP2+v2+NP3 can be clauses.
The main verb canbe determined in Figure 2.
The NP allocated am-biguity can be processed as in Figure 3.
(16) ????????????
(Mr.Zhang saw Miss.
Li dancing.
)The result of garden-path analysis is a seman-tic structure for the sentence.
In Figures 1 and 3,a flag of prototype SD, key-element SD andpacked SD, which indicates the semantic inter-pretation, is added to the grammatical structureof the sentence.
Therefore, the main verb, whichis always outside the flag, and the semanticstructure of the sentence are both represented.v2 is NP1+v1+NP2 is Sentence semantic structure Exampleone of VS(pro)not one of VS(pro)not one of VS(pro)a prototype SDa key-element SDa packed SD(NP1+v1+NP2)+v2+NP3<NP1+v1+NP2>+v2+NP3{NP1+v1+NP2}+v2+NP3Sentence (2)Sentence (1)Sentence (9)Figure 1: The process of SD type ambiguity in garden-path sentences.
Where ( ) is the flag37indicating that the content in it is prototype SD, < > is the flag of key-element SD, and { } is theflag of packed SD.V1 is v2 is the main verb is Exampleone of VO(pro)one of VO(pro)not one of VO(pro)not one of VS(pro)one of VS(pro)one of VS(pro)v1prior to be v1v2Sentence (16)Sentence (8)Sentence (12)Figure 2: The main verb determining in garden-path sentences.
Here prior to means that if v1 isone of VO(pro) and v2 is one of VS(pro), the main verb is v1 in most cases.
In some cases it dependson the meaning of v1 and v2, whether v1 is the main verb.
These cases are out of the scope of consid-eration of this paper.Mainverb isNP2 is Sentence semanticstructureExample Commentv1 The subjectof v2NP1+v1+(NP2+v2+NP3)Sentence(8),(16)NP2+v2+NP3 is a prototype SD,this SD is the object of v1.v2 The objectof v1(NP1+v1+NP2)+v2+NP3Sentence (12) NP1+v1+NP2 is a prototype SD,this SD is the subject of v2.Figure 3: The process of NP allocated ambiguity in garden-path sentence.
Where ( ) is the flagindicating that the content in it is prototype SD.6.
Evaluation and DiscussionTo conduct a reliable evaluation, a test sentenceset and a simple knowledge base were developed.The test set includes 100 manually annotatedChinese garden-path sentences and 100 non gar-den-path sentences with grammatical structureNP1+v1+NP2+v2+NP3.
The knowledge baseincludes two aspects: one is if the verb is one ofVS(pro) or VO(pro), the other is the conceptswhich the subject/object of the verb favor.
Andthere are about 800 verbs in our knowledge base.Next, two experiments have been conducted.The first one is designed to test if our model candetect garden-paths effectively.
The second oneis designed to evaluate if garden-path sentencescan be correctly analyzed.
The results of the ex-periments are shown in Tables 1 and 2.Total Num Detected Correct P(%) R(%) F(%)100 85 79 92.9 79 85.4Table 1: Performance of detection algorithm.Total ofDetectedSD type ambiguityAnalysis CorrectNP allocated ambiguityAnalysis CorrectTotal ofCorrectP(%)85 53 24 77 90.6Table 2: Performance of analysis algorithm.Where, P is precision ratio, R is recall ratio, andF is F-measure (F?=1, which is defined as2PR/(P+R)).We can see that on this small test set, our al-gorithm achieves good performance in detectionand analysis of Chinese garden-path sentences.We also conducted an error analysis, showingthat two main factors lead to detection errors.The first is that attributer processing of NP2?sis not considered.
For example, in ?????38??
(manage the friend?s company), ?????
(the friend?s company) is an NP which cannotbe divided to NP21(??
friend)+?+NP22(??
company) and cannot be detected if there isan SD type ambiguity.The second is coordination ambiguity inter-acting with NP allocated ambiguity, as in Sandrabumped into the busboy and the waiter told herto be careful, which has not been considered.Furthermore, there are two sentences correctlydetected as Chinese garden-path sentences, butthere are neither SD type ambiguities nor NP al-located ambiguities in them.
This is why thereare 79 correct detections in Table 1, but only 77correct analyses in Table 2.
One of these sen-tences is sentence (17), in which ????
(I amthe mayor) looks like a prototype SD, however ????
?is used to emphasized ??
(the mayor)in Chinese.
(17) ???????
?It is the mayor thatinstructed me to come here?7.
Conclusions and Future WorkThe contributions of this paper are three-fold.First, the Sentence Degeneration model is in-troduced which can represent the differences ininterpretation of the same grammatical structure.Second, we represent garden-paths as SD typeambiguity and NP allocated ambiguity.
Thesetwo ambiguities come from semantics but notgrammar.Third, we present a unified approach to proc-essing garden-paths, in which ambiguity detec-tion and analysis take the place of revision.
Theresult of our approach is the semantic structure ofa garden-path sentence.The results of two experiments we conductedshow that our model and algorithm can analyzeChinese garden-path sentences effectively.
In ourfuture work, we will build a complex knowledgebase for verbs to support our semantic analysis.We will also develop attributer processing andcoordination disambiguation to improve the per-formance of our algorithm.Moreover, we will extend our algorithm todetect and analyze garden-paths caused by sen-tences which have no verbs.
This phenomenon isa typical ambiguity in Chinese sentences, such as.Sentence (18):(18) ???????
(She is beautiful dress-ing skirt).AcknowledgmentsI thank Prof. Zengyang Huang and Dr. Chuanji-ang Miao for their valuable comments on anearly draft of this paper.
I also thank Zheng Wufor his wonderful work in algorithm develop-ment.ReferencesFrazier, L., & Clifton, C., Jr. 1998.
Sentence reanaly-sis and visibility.
In J. D. Fodor & F.Ferreira (Eds.
),Reanalysis in sentence processing.
Dordrecht,Kluwer.Fernanda Ferreira,etc.
2001.
Misinterpretations ofGarden-Path Sentences: Implications for Models ofSentence Processing and Reanalysis.
Journal ofPsycholinguistic Research, 30(1).Michael J. Pazzani.
1984.
Conceptual Analysis ofGarden-Path Sentences.
Proceedings of the 10th in-ternational conference on Computational linguis-tics.Karl G.D. Bailey, etc.
2003.
Disfluencies affect theparsing of garden-path sentences.
Journal of Mem-ory and Language, 49:183?200.Zengyang Huang.
1998.
The theory of HierarchicalNetwork of Concepts (in Chinese).
Tsinghua Uni-versity Press, Beijing, China.Zengyang Huang.
2004.
The Basic Concepts andexpression of the Concepts space (in Chinese).Ocean Press, Beijing, China.Zhiwei Feng.
2003.
The automatic parsing algo-rithm for garden-path sentence (in Chinese).Contemporary Linguistics, 5(4)39
