Using the Web as a Phonological Corpus: a case study from TagalogKie ZurawDepartment of LinguisticsUCLALos Angeles, U.S.A.kie@ucla.eduAbstractSome languages?
orthographic propertiesallow written data to be used for phono-logical research.
This paper reports on anon-going project that uses a web-derivedtext corpus to study the phonology ofTagalog, a language for which large cor-pora are not otherwise available.
Novelfindings concerning the phenomenon ofintervocalic tapping are discussed in de-tail, and an overview of other phonologi-cal phenomena in the language that canbe investigated through written data isgiven.1 IntroductionBecause the field of phonology studies soundpatterns of languages, corpus-based phonologytypically relies on audio corpora.
These are ex-pensive to create, and usually must undergo labo-rious hand-tagging to be useful.
For much pho-nological investigation, there is no way aroundthese harsh facts.
Sometimes, however, a lan-guage?s phonology and orthography conspire toallow phonological data to be gleaned from text.Abigail Cohn and Lisa Lavoie (p.c.
), for exam-ple, have used text data on English comparativesto determine whether words are treated as mono-syllabic, taking suffixal X-er, or longer, takingperiphrastic more X.
The cases of interest arewords such as feel and fire, which have a tense ordiphthongal nucleus followed by l or r, and arefelt by many English speakers to be longer thanmonosyllabic.
Corpus data on the frequencies ofthe two comparative types can be used as furtherevidence on the status of such words.The Tagalog language (Austronesian, Philip-pines) exhibits several morphophonological phe-nomena that are reflected in its spelling.
All ofthese phenomena involve some variation, whichmakes them ideal for text-corpus study: onlywith large amounts of data can we investigate thedistribution of the variants and search for the fac-tors that condition the variation.
See Schachter &Otanes (1972) for basic descriptions of most ofthese phenomena:?
intervocalic tapping (d can become thetap sound [], spelled r, when it is be-tween two vowels): dumi ?dirt?
ma-rumi?dirty??
vowel-height alternations (o in final syl-lables can alternate with u in non-finalsyllables; there is a similar but morecomplicated i/e alternation): halo ?mix?halu-in ?to be mixed??
nasal assimilation (a nasal consonant cantake on the place of articulation of a fol-lowing consonant): pam-butas ?borer?pan-damot ?picker-upper?
pang-gamas?trowel?
(ng represents the velar nasal[])?
nasal substitution (stem-initial obstruentscan turn into nasals when certain pre-fixes are added): pili ?choosing?
ma-mili?to choose??
syncope (the vowel of a stem?s final syl-lable can be deleted when a suffix isadded, and the consonants that conse-quently become adjacent can undergochanges): gawa ?act?
gaw_-in ?to bedone?, tingin ?look?
tig_n-an ?to belooked at??
partial reduplication (when foreign stemsthat begin with consonant sequencesand/or foreign consonants such as f un-59dergo copying of the first syllable, theconsonant sequence can be simplifiedand the foreign consonant can be nativ-ized): nag-fri-friendster ~ nag-pi-friendster ?using Friendster??
infix location (in foreign stems begin-ning with consonant sequences, an infixcan go inside or after the consonant se-quence): g-um-raduate ~ gr-um-aduate?graduated??
infix in vs. prefix ni: l-in-uto ~ ni-luto?to be cooked??
location of reduplication in prefixedwords: pa-pag-lagy-an ~ pag-la-lagy-an?will place?
(stem is lagy, from lagay?location?
)Variation in some of these phenomena hasbeen investigated previously (Ross 1996 for par-tial reduplication; Rackowski 1999 for locationof reduplication), sometimes using dictionarycounts to obtain statistics (Zuraw 2002 for vowelheight; Zuraw 2000 for nasal substitution).
Cor-pus frequencies of the variants, however, or evenbasic word frequencies, have not previously beenavailable.As should be apparent from the examplesgiven above, which are all in normal Tagalogspelling except for the hyphens added to showmorpheme boundaries (hyphens are used in Tag-alog, but not in the locations shown above), all ofthese phonological phenomena can be investi-gated in a text corpus.
In most cases, modulotyping errors, we can be confident that the writ-ten form represents the writer?s intended pronun-ciation, especially since spell-checking softwarethat would change a writer?s original spelling isnot widely used for Tagalog, and there is littleprescriptive pressure favoring one variant spell-ing over the other.1 One area in which we shouldbe cautious is partial reduplication, however: in aspelling such as nag-fri-friendster, it is plausiblefirst that the writer might pronounce the stem ina nativized fashion despite preserving the Eng-lish spelling (e.g., with [p] instead of [f]2), andsecond that regardless of intended stem pronun-ciation, the reduplicant?s spelling is merely anecho of the stem?s spelling, and does not reflectthe writer?s pronunciation.1Location of reduplicant is an exception: prescriptively, thereduplicant is adjacent to the root (Tania Azores-Gunter,p.c.
).2A Philippine social-networking website similar to friend-ster.com is jocularly named prendster.com.Section 2 below describes how a written cor-pus of Tagalog was constructed from the web.Section 3 gives results from the corpus on tap-ping, and Section 4 concludes.2 Construction of the corpusLike most of the world?s 6,000 or so languages,Tagalog is a language for which carefully con-structed, tagged corpora (written or audio) do notexist.
However, unlike most of the world?s lan-guages, Tagalog has a substantial web presence.As with all web-as-corpus endeavors, there is thedrawback that the data will be messier, and therewill be more input from non-native speakers thanin, say, a newspaper-derived corpus.
But in thecase of some phenomena, such as infix location,a web corpus is actually preferable to a newspa-per-derived corpus (if one existed): the range ofloanwords found in formal Tagalog writing isnarrower, favoring Spanish loans over English,than that found in the highly informal writing ofblogs and web forums.
From this informal writ-ing we can obtain data on how the language?sgrammar is being extended to the novel phono-logical situations presented by a wide range ofEnglish loans.A previous demonstration project (Ghani,Jones and Mladeni 2004) showed how a corpusof Tagalog can be created from the web by con-structing queries designed to target Tagalog-language pages and exclude pages in other lan-guages; the queries are created by using a smallseed corpus to estimate word frequencies, andthe frequencies are updated as the corpus grows.Kevin Scannell?s An Cr?bad?n project(http://borel.slu.edu/crubadan/index.html), whichseems to work in a similar fashion, includes aTagalog language model.
BootCaT (Baroni &Bernardini 2004), which is designed to createcorpora and discover multi-word terms in spe-cialized domains, such as psychiatry, works simi-larly, with the added twist that queries use wordsthat are more frequent in the target domain thanin a reference corpus.
The method used here issimilar, though cruder.
No attempt is made toexclude pages written partly or even mostly in alanguage other than Tagalog; many blogs, forinstance, are overwhelmingly in English but withoccasional sprinklings of Tagalog, and I wantedto obtain these sprinklings, because they are richin nonce affixed forms of loanwords.33I have not conducted any performance comparisons ofdifferent language-identification algorithms in pulling Taga-60In order to construct the corpus used here, firsta smaller corpus of mainly Tagalog web pages,generously supplied by Rosie Jones (derivedfrom Ghani, Jones and Mladeni 2004) wasprocessed in order to yield estimated word fre-quencies for Tagalog.Using these frequencies, a long list of queriescomposed of frequent words is automaticallygenerated.
Each term is at least 12 characterslong, including spaces but not including apostro-phes or other non-alphabetic characters.
A wordis chosen from among the most frequent 500 inthe starter corpus, with a probability proportionalto its log frequency.
If this produces a 12-character string, the query is complete.
Other-wise, another word is chosen using the same pro-cedure and added to the string, until the thresholdof 12 characters is reached.
This threshold wasselected in order to ensure queries long enoughto be specifically Tagalog (e.g., not sa ng), butshort enough to yield a large number of web hits.Some sample queries: kami pangulo, +at salitaoo,4lalo parang, noong akin aklat.
Althoughthese queries are not treated as phrases, the orderproduced by the query-generator was preserved,because the topmost hits produced by, e.g., laloparang and parang lalo are not the same.
It isimportant to ?toss the salad?5 in this way, be-cause the Google search engine that these queriesare sent to allows only the top 1,000 results of aquery to be viewed.A program that sends these queries to Google(www.google.com), using the Google web APIsservice, was written by Ivan Tam.
This returns amaximum of 10,000 URLs (web addresses) perday, because a user?s license key allows only1,000 queries per day, and each query return only10 results?to see more than the top 10 resultsfor a given query, a new query must be sent,which counts against the day?s 1,000.
Typically,the number of URLs retrieved was about 5,000.This is because the number of times the programasks to see more results for a given query is de-termined by the estimated number of results ini-log-language documents from the web, because this wouldrequire hand identification of their results (or of a largebody of test documents).
Qualitatively, however, the Ghaniet al approach does seem to suffer the same main problemas mine: a sizeable number of documents from Philippinelanguages other than Tagalog are retrieved.4A ?+?
was added by hand to a few members of the top-500list that Google would otherwise ignore because they arecommon function words in English or another major lan-guage.
Quotations are placed around words with crucialpunctuation, such as apostrophes in contractions.5Thanks to Ivan Tam for this useful metaphor.tially reported by Google, but this is often anoverestimate.
For example, Google may estimatethat there are 800 results, and the program willthus ask to see 80 pages of results (using up 80of the day?s queries), but perhaps only 621 re-sults will be obtained.
(The program gives theuser the option of setting a maximum number ofresults to obtain per query; setting this numberlower makes more efficient use of the day?squery quota.
)Tam?s program gives the option of taking us-ing Google?s option to return, out of any subsetof results from one query that are highly similar,just one URL.
That option was used here, but nofurther attempt was made to exclude highly simi-lar results that come from different queries?obviously, this is an area where the procedurecould be improved.
The program also offers theoption, which was used here, to create a separatequery to search any crowded hosts (Google tendsto show only two results from a single server,returning a ?More results from ...?
link; in theresults returned by the Google Web APIs service,this translates into a non-blank value for<hostName>).The day?s URLs are compared against thoseretrieved so far, and the new ones are extracted.Another part of Tam?s program then retrieves thefull text of each new URL, although an existingprogram such as wget could also be used.
Be-cause the data of interest in this project are uni-gram and bigram frequencies, and irrelevant bi-grams such as ?a href?
(a frequent bigram inhtml code) play no role, html stripping was notperformed.The resulting corpus currently has 98,607pages and an estimated 20 million words of Tag-alog (200 million ?words?
total, but examinationof a sample finds that when html tags and non-Tagalog text are removed, about 10% remains).Word frequencies and certain bigram frequencies(e.g., the word+enclitic frequencies discussedbelow) are obtained from this corpus.3 Tapping in the corpusThe phenomenon investigated most recently inthe corpus is tapping.
As mentioned above,Tagalog has a rule taking /d/ to the tap [](spelled r) between vowels; tap rarely occursnon-intervocalically, except in loanwords (Span-ish [] and [r], and English [] are usuallyadapted as []).
There are no opportunities for d/ralternation in affixes, but there are stems thatbegin or end in d, and if a vowel-final prefix or61vowel-initial suffix is attached, the potential fortapping arises.
Tapping has been reported to bevariable at the prefix-stem boundary (ma-rumi?dirty?
vs. ma-dahon ?leafy?)
but obligatory at thestem-suffix boundary (lakar-an ?to be walkedon?, from lakad ?walk?)
(Schachter and Otanes1972).
This is reminiscent of phenomena such ass-voicing in Northern Italian, which authors suchas Nespor and Vogel (1986) and Peperkamp(1997) have analyzed as involving an asymmetryin how prefixes and suffixes relate to the pro-sodic word.
For the sake of brevity, I will notreview the Northern Italian facts here, but willapply an analysis similar to Peperkamp?s to theTagalog tapping case.
(Peperkamp points out thatprefix/suffix asymmetries always seem to be inthis direction: prefixes are prosodically less inte-grated with stems than are suffixes.
)If we assume, as a first approximation, that asuffix is incorporated into the same prosodicword (p-word) as its stem, while a prefix adjoinsto the stem to form a higher p-word, and we fur-ther assume that tapping applies only to a vowel-d-vowel stretch that is not interrupted by a p-word boundary, then we would predict that tap-ping occurs at the stem-suffix boundary but notat the prefix-stem boundary:p-wordp-word     p-word|ma dahon  lakar    anFigure 1.
Prosodic structure of prefixedword without tapping vs. suffixed word.Loosely following Peperkamp, I will assumethat this prosodification is derived by a constraintrequiring the left edge of any accessed lexicalunit (see below) to project the left edge of a p-word.
In Optimality Theory terms (Prince &Smolensky 1993/2004), the symmetrical con-straint requiring the right edge of an accessedlexical unit to project any prosodic edge isranked lower (specifically, below an anti-recursion constraint requiring every p-word nodeto immediately dominate a foot).3.1 Tapping at the prefix-stem boundaryHow can we explain ma-rumi, where tappingdoes occur at the prefix-stem boundary?
In theNorthern Italian case, Baroni (2001) found thatapplication of the s-voicing rule at the prefix-stem boundary in a reading task was negativelycorrelated with semantic transparency as deter-mined by a rating task.
Baroni?s interpretation isthat forms with voicing (which tend to be seman-tically opaque) are treated as morphologicallysimple.
I will follow Baroni loosely in assumingthat words like marumi are accessed as a singlelexical unit (without taking a position on whetherthat lexical entry contains information aboutmorpheme boundaries).
If marumi is accessed asa lexical unit?rather than indirectly via ma- anddumi?then the constraint mentioned above re-quires only the left edge of the whole word toproject a p-word boundary, and the structure is asin Figure 2.
Because no p-word boundary inter-rupts the vowel-d-vowel sequence, tapping ap-plies.p-wordma rumiFigure 2.
Prosodic structure of prefixedword with tapping.The corpus does not directly yield judgmentsof semantic transparency, of course?though in-direct measures using the similarity of contextsin which the derived word and its base occurcould be examined in future work?but it doesyield a statistic that Hay (2003) has argued isclosely related to the degree to which a morpho-logically complex word is treated as a single unitvs.
compositionally: the ratio of base frequencyto derived-word frequency.
Hay argues, based ona series of experiments on English, that when aderived word is more frequent than its morpho-logical base (e.g., English illegible vs. legible), itis more likely to be accessed through a directroute during processing (direct access to illegiblerather than access via in- and legible), and thusmore likely to be treated as a single unit phonol-ogically, and more likely to develop independentsemantics.
The prediction that can be tested inthe Tagalog corpus is this: prefixed words thatare more frequent than their unprefixed bases aremore likely to undergo tapping than prefixedwords that are less frequent than their unprefixedbases.To minimize hand-checking of items, the cor-pus was searched only for the 592 orthographi-cally distinct prefixed d-stem words that appearin a dictionary of Tagalog (English 1986).
Thesewords were extracted from the dictionary and putinto electronic form by Nikki Foster.
The fre-quency of each word?s tapped and untapped form62were retrieved from the corpus (e.g., for the dic-tionary?s i-dipa, both idipa and iripa?s frequen-cies were obtained).
Dictionary-listed variantswere searched, and certain punctuation was al-lowed.
?Linkers?
were also allowed (these areclitics that can become, orthographically, part ofthe preceding word).
The frequency of eachword?s root, as listed in the dictionary, was alsoretrieved.
(In the case of words with multipleaffixes, it is unclear what the immediate morpho-logical predecessor is, so for the sake of simplic-ity the root, rather than some intermediate form,was used.
)The histograms below show how many pre-fixed words display each range of tapping ratesin the corpus, from 0 (always d) to 1 (always r).They demonstrate the predicted influence of de-rived/base frequency ratio on tapping rate: whenthe prefixed word is more frequent than its root(Figure 3), a high rate of tapping predominates(strongly), whereas when the root is more fre-quent than the prefixed word (Figure 4), a lowrate of tapping predominates (weakly):0510152025303540Count0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1rate of tappingInclusion criteria: NoDupMinFreqSimpleNativeOnlyPrefixedOnly from AllDictItems.svdFigure 3.
Distribution of tapping rate in pre-fixed words that are more frequent than theirbases.01020304050607080Count0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1rate of tappingInclusion criteria: NoDupMinFreqSimpleNativeOnlyPrefixedOnly from AllDictItems.svdFigure 4.
Distribution of tapping rate in pre-fixed words that are less frequent than theirbases.Interestingly, in both cases the rates of tappingcluster near 0 and 1?intermediate rates are rela-tively rare.
The data above are limited to wordswith a corpus frequency of at least 10, so thateach word had a fair chance of displaying an in-termediate rate of tapping if that were its truebehavior.
This suggests that the great majority ofprefixed words in Tagalog are lexicalized as ei-ther undergoing or not undergoing tapping (or,depending on what form lexical entries in facttake, as having one prosodic structure or theother).
This is rather different from the NorthernItalian situation discovered by Baroni, wheremany words robustly vary, even within a singlespeaker.Words with a corpus frequency of less than10, which are almost all less frequent than theirbases, show a preference of non-tapping, as ex-pected:01020304050607080Count0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1rate of tappingInclusion criteria: NoDupNativeOnlyPrefixedOnlyLOWFreq from AllDictItems.svdFigure 5.
Distribution of tapping rate in pre-fixed words with corpus frequency < 10(nearly all are less frequent than their bases).Hay argues that it is relative frequency of a de-rived word and its base, not raw frequency of thederived word, that models of lexical access pre-dict to have an effect on word decomposability.In the present case, raw frequency does also havea strong effect on whether a prefixed word be-longs to the tapping or non-tapping categories,but raw and relative frequency are themselveshighly correlated.
In order to verify that relativefrequency has an effect independent of raw fre-quency, the prefixed words were divided into 28categories according to the log of their raw fre-quency (0 to <0.1, 0.3 to <0.4, 0.4 to <0.5, etc.
).Within each category, the percentage of wordsless frequent than their bases that undergo tap-ping >95% of the time and the percentage ofwords more frequent than their bases that un-dergo tapping >95% of the time were calculated.The prediction is that the second percentageshould be higher?that is, words matched for rawfrequency should be more likely to undergo tap-ping if they are more frequent than their bases?and this was borne out in a Wilcoxon signed-63rank test (p<.05).
The contribution of raw fre-quency remains to be further explored.3.2 Tapping at the stem-suffix boundaryTapping was examined in a similar fashion at thestem-suffix boundary.
From English?s (1986)dictionary, 160 native-etymology roots that endin d were extracted, and the corpus was searchedfor any suffixed forms of these roots (with orwithout additional prefixes and infixes).
As ex-pected from Schachter and Otanes?s (1972) de-scription, tapping is indeed nearly obligatory atthe stem-suffix boundary, as shown in Figure 6(which again shows only words with corpus fre-quency of at least 10):0200400600800100012001400Count0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1rate of tappingInclusion criteria: at least 10 tokens from allsuffixedforms.svdFigure 6.
Distribution of tapping rate in suf-fixed words.Because of the relative ease of searching forsuffixed forms (there are only two productivenative suffixes in Tagalog, -in and -an, so a sim-ple regular expression can find all the suffixedforms of any root), the counts here are muchhigher than in the prefix-stem case?compare thescales of the vertical axes in the histograms?andwe can look more closely at the 124 words?aminority so small it is largely invisible in Figure6?that do not uniformly undergo tapping at thestem-suffix boundary.
Rate of tapping amongthese 124 words turns out to be weakly but sig-nificantly correlated with the log ratio of suffix-word frequency to root frequency (Spearman?srho=.534, p<.001), as predicted by Hay?s view ofphonological integration.There are multiple possible interpretations forthis result under the prosodic account givenabove.
Perhaps stem and suffix do always form asingle p-word, but paradigm-uniformity effects(e.g., Steriade 2000) can, if sufficiently strong,block tapping even within a p-word.
Or, perhapsthe requirement that a suffix be integrated intothe prosodic word can itself be overridden, occa-sionally, by frequency effects demanding a com-positional treatment of an affixed word that isless frequent than its base.6 It is also possible thatall the ?nontapping?
here represents typographi-cal errors, but that there is a frequency effect onerrors such that the more frequent a base relativeto the word it is nested inside, the more likelythat the base?s spelling is preserved.3.3 Tapping at the stem-stem boundaryThe prosodic system assumed above (with someconstraints not mentioned there), allows a com-bination of two stems to have either of the pro-sodic structures shown in Figure 7, with thechoice depending on whether the combination isaccessed as a single lexical unit.
But in eithercase, a p-word boundary separates the two stems,and thus tapping is not expected on either side ofthe stem-stem boundary.p-word        p-wordp-word p-word    p-word|      |                |stem   stem      stem   stemFigure 7.
Two possible prosodic structuresfor compound or two-syllable reduplication.There are two places where a stem+stem com-bination could arise in Tagalog.
One is in com-pounds, such as basag-ulo ?fight?
(lit.
breaking-head), where each member bears a separatestress.
If we assume, following most previouswork on the p-word, that dominating a stressedsyllable is a necessary feature of a p-word(though not sufficient, since a single p-word maycontain multiple stresses), this is consistent witha p-word+p-word prosodic structure.
Lacking alist of compounds, however, I found it impracti-cal to search for compounds in the corpus(though this is a project for the future).The second place where stem-stem boundariesarguably arise is in two-syllable reduplication,which occurs in a variety of morphological con-structions, including reduplication by itself: e.g.pa-balik-balik ?recurrent?, from balik ?return?.
Inthese reduplications, each copy bears a stress.We would therefore expect that tapping shouldnot occur at the boundary between the two redu-6In Hay?s view, relative frequency is not epiphenomenal,but rather determines the mode of lexical access (direct orindirect route) and thus a word?s behavior.
It is also possi-ble, of course, that relative frequency is only the symptomof some underlying property of words, or that there is feed-back between frequency and the properties that influence it.64plicants.
This is indeed what is found, as shownin the histogram below, though the data comemostly from stem-initial d cases (e.g., dagli-dagli?right away?
); there were only 5 stem-final dcases that met the frequency threshold (e.g.,agad-agad ?immediately?
):7051015202530354045Count0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1rate of  tappingInclusion criteria: minimum5tokens from reduplicatedFormsVariantsCombined.svdFigure 8.
Distribution of tapping rate at re-duplicant-reduplicant boundary (two-syllable reduplication).The lack of tapping is unlikely to be a redupli-cative identity effect (Wilbur 1973, McCarthyand Prince 1995), because tapping is blockedeven when the other copy of the same consonantdoes undergo tapping because of an adjacent pre-fix or suffix (ka-agad-agar-an, ka-raga-daga-_n[glosses unknown?English?s dictionary con-tains both roots but not these derivatives ofthem]).The lack of tapping is also probably not due tothe reduplicated forms?
low frequency: most areindeed less frequent than their bases, but it wasseen above that prefixed words that are less fre-quent than their bases undergo tapping almost asoften as not.3.4 Tapping in cliticsThere are two enclitics in Tagalog that beginwith /d/: din ?also?
and daw ?
(reported speech)?.Each has a tap-initial allomorph (rin, raw).
Thereis reported to be variation between the two allo-morphs even after consonant-final words(Schachter and Otanes 1972).
So far, I have ex-amined in the corpus only din/rin after vowel-final words.All bigrams whose second word is din or rinwere extracted from the corpus.
Variation was7The interpretation of stem-final d cases is complicated bythe fact that p-words spelled with an initial vowel are usu-ally actually glottal-stop initial.
Thus, agad-agad can bepronounced with a glottal stop (agad-[]agad), so that themedial d is not truly intervocalic.indeed found, but unlike in the prefix+stem case,where the variation was highly polarized?withmost words having one strongly dominant behav-ior?in the word+clitic case the variation is con-tinuous (again, only bigrams with a corpus fre-quency of at least 10 are shown):0510152025303540Count0 .2 .4 .6 .8 1rate of tappingInclusion criteria: Word1VFinalFreqAtLeast10RinDinOnly from rindinRevisedAgain.svdFigure 9.
Distribution of tapping rate atword-clitic boundary.One interpretation is that most word+cliticcombinations are not lexicalized, and their tap-ping behavior is determined on the fly.
The cor-relation between the log ratio of bigram to baseword frequency and the rate of tapping, thoughvery weak, is significant (Spearman?s rho=.197,p<.0001).
If we look at enclitic+din/rin combina-tions (where the first enclitic ends in a vowel, asin ... pa rin ?...
still also?
), which display simi-larly gradient variation, the correlation isstronger, though p is larger because there arefewer data points (Spearman?s rho=.527, p<.05).4 ConclusionThis paper has presented one case study, on Tag-alog tapping, of phonological research using awritten, web-derived corpus.
Several aspects ofthe investigation depended crucially on the web-as-corpus method.
Because of economic con-straints, the only realistic way to assemble alarge corpus of a language like Tagalog is cur-rently by taking text from the web.
And only alarge corpus makes it possible to ask questionssuch as ?how does the frequency ratio of a de-rived word to its base affect the application of aphonological rule??
The two different patterns ofvariation?polarized in the stem+prefix case,continuous in the word+enclitic case?wouldhave been very difficult to discover without cor-pus data.This Tagalog corpus has already been used toinvestigate infixation in loans that begin withconsonant clusters (Zuraw 2005).
There, as men-tioned in Section 2, the web-based nature of the65corpus was of more than practical importance,because a large quantity of highly informal writ-ing?unlikely to be found in a traditionally con-structed written corpus?was needed.The corpus is also being used in ongoing workon nasal substitution, and will be used in the fu-ture to investigate the other phenomena listed inSection 1.
The corpus will also continue to grow;there seems to be little danger of running out ofTagalog-language web space to search in theforeseeable future.AcknowledgementThanks to research assistant Ivan Tam for pro-gramming that made this project possible, and toresearch assistant Nikki Foster for data entry.
Forvaluable discussion about tapping, thanks toColin Wilson, Bruce Hayes, and participants theUCLA phonology seminar.
Thanks also to twoanonymous reviewers for several ideas that havebeen incorporated into the paper.ReferencesBaroni, Marco (2001).
The representation of prefixedforms in the Italian lexicon: Evidence from the dis-tribution of intervocalic [s] and [z] in northern Ital-ian.
In Geert Booij and Jaap van Marle (eds.
),Yearbook of Morphology 1999, Springer,Dordrecht: 121-152.Baroni, Marco and S. Bernardini (2004).
BootCaT:Bootstrapping corpora and terms from the web.Proceedings of LREC 2004.English, Leo (1986).
Tagalog-English Dictionary.Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer, Manila.Distributed by (Philippine) National Book Store.Ghani, Rayid, Rosie Jones & Dunja Mladeni (2004).Building minority language corpora by learning togenerate Web search queries.
Knowledge and In-formation Systems 7: 56-83.Hay, Jennifer (2003).
Causes and Consequences ofWord Structure.
Routledge, New York and Lon-don.McCarthy, John & Alan Prince (1995).
Faithfulnessand reduplicative identity.
Papers in OptimalityTheory, UMass Occasional Papers in Linguistics18: 249-348Nespor, Marina and Irene Vogel (1986).
ProsodicPhonology.
Foris, Dordrecht.Peperkamp, Sharon (1997).
Prosodic Words.
HollandAcademic Graphics, The Hague.Prince, Alan and Paul Smolensky (1993/2004).
Opti-mality Theory: Constraint Interaction in Genera-tive Grammar.
Blackwell.Rackowski, Andrea (1999).
Morphological optional-ity in Tagalog aspectual reduplication.
Papers onMorphology and Syntax, Cycle Two, MIT WorkingPapers in Linguistics 34: 107-136.Ross, Kie (1996).
Floating phonotactics: infixationand reduplication in Tagalog loanwords.
UCLAM.A.
thesis.Schachter, Paul and Fe Otanes (1972) Tagalog Refer-ence Grammar.
University of California Press,Berkeley.Steriade, Donca (2000).
Paradigm Uniformity and thephonetics/phonology boundary.
In Janet Pierre-humbert and Michael Broe (eds.
), Papers in Labo-ratory Phonology vol.
6, Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge.Wilbur, Ronnie Bring (1973).
The Phonology of Re-duplication.
Indiana University Linguistics Club,Bloomington.Zuraw, Kie (2000).
Patterned exceptions in phonol-ogy.
UCLA Ph.D. dissertation.Zuraw, Kie (2002).
Aggressive reduplication.
Pho-nology 19: 395-439.Zuraw, Kie (2005).
The role of phonetic knowledge inphonological patterning: Corpus and survey evi-dence from Tagalog.
Manuscript, UCLA.66
