Multilingual interactive experiments with FlickrPaul CloughDepartment ofInformation StudiesUniversity of SheffieldSheffield, UKp.d.clough@sheffield.ac.ukJulio GonzaloDepartamento de Lenguajesy Sistemas Informa?ticosUNEDMadrid, Spainjulio@lsi.uned.esJussi KarlgrenSwedish Institute ofComputer ScienceStockholmSwedenjussi@sics.seAbstractThis paper presents a proposal for iCLEF2006, the interactive track of the CLEFcross-language evaluation campaign.
Inthe past, iCLEF has addressed applicationssuch as information retrieval and ques-tion answering.
However, for 2006 thefocus has turned to text-based image re-trieval from Flickr.
We describe Flickr, thechallenges this kind of collection presentsto cross-language researchers, and suggestinitial iCLEF tasks.1 Information Retrieval Evaluation byUser ExperimentInformation retrieval systems, especially text re-trieval systems, have benefited greatly from afairly strict and straight-laced evaluation scheme,which enables system designers to run tests onversions of their system using a test collection ofpre-assessed data.
These relevance-oriented ex-periments shed light on comparative system per-formance and enable both introduction of new al-gorithms and incremental optimization.
However,batch-oriented system evaluation based on largeamounts of data, abstracted away from situationalconstraints, variation in usage, and interactivenessissues only addresses some of the bottlenecks tobuild a successful system.The CLEF1 Interactive Track (iCLEF2) is de-voted to the comparative study of user inclusivecross-language search strategies.
Over the past5 years, iCLEF has studied three cross-languagesearch tasks: retrieval of documents, answers and1http://www.clef-campaign.org/2http://nlp.uned.es/iCLEF/annotated images (Gonzalo and Oard, 2002; Gon-zalo et al, 2005).
All tasks involve the user in-teracting with information systems in a languagedifferent from that of the document collection.Although iCLEF experiments continue produc-ing interesting research results, which may havea substantial impact on the way effective cross-language search assistants are built, participationin this track has remained low across the five yearsof existence of the track.
Interactive studies, how-ever, remain as a recognized necessity in mostCLEF tracks.Therefore, to encourage greater participation in2006 our focus has turned to FLICKR3, a large-scale, web-based image database with the poten-tial for offering both challenging and realistic mul-tilingual search tasks for interactive experiments.Our aim in selecting a primarily non-textual tar-get to study textual retrieval is based on some ofthe multi-lingual and dynamic characteristics ofFLICKR.
We will outline them below.2 The Flickr systemThe majority of Web image search is text-basedand the success of such approaches often de-pends on reliably identifying relevant text associ-ated with a particular image.
FLICKR is an on-line tool for managing and sharing personal pho-tographs and currently contains over five millionfreely accessible images.
These are available viathe web, updated daily by a large number of usersand available to all web users (users can accessFLICKR for free, although limited to the upload of20MB of photos per month).3http://www.flickr.com/702.1 Photographs in the collectionIt is estimated that the complete FLICKR databasecontains 37 million photos with approximately200,000 images added daily by 1.2 million mem-bers4.
FLICKR provides both private and pub-lic image storage, and photos which are shared(around 5 million) can be protected under a Cre-ative Commons (CC) licensing5 agreement (an al-ternative to full copyright).
Images from a widevariety of topics can be accessed through FLICKR,including people, places, landscapes, objects, ani-mals and events.
This makes the collection a richresource for image retrieval research.2.2 AnnotationsIn FLICKR, photos are annotated by authors withfreely chosen keywords in a naturally multilingualmanner: most authors use keywords in their nativelanguage; some combine more than one language.In addition, photographs have titles, descriptions,collaborative annotations, and comments in manylanguages.
Figure 5 provides an example photowith multilingual annotations; Figure 5 showswhat the query ?cats?
retrieves from the database,compared with what the query ?chats?
retrieves.Annotations are used by the authors to organizetheir images, and by any user to search on.
Key-words assigned to the images can include placenames and subject matter, and photos can alsobe submitted to online discussion groups.
Thisprovides additional metadata to the image whichcan also be used for retrieval.
An explore util-ity provided by FLICKR makes use of this user-generated data (plus other information such asClickthroughs) to define an ?interestingness?
viewof images6.3 Flickr at iCLEF 2006Many images are accompanied by text, enablingthe use of both text and visual features for imageretrieval and its evaluation (Mu?ller et al, 2006,see e.g.).
Images are naturally language indepen-dent and often successfully retrieved with asso-ciated texts.
This has been explored as part ofImageCLEF (Clough et al, 2005) for areas suchas information access to medical images and his-toric photographs.
The way in which users search4These figures are accurate as of October 2005:http://www.wired.com/news/ebiz/0,1272,68654,00.html5http://creativecommons.org/image/flickr,http://flickr.com/creativecommons/6http://www.flickr.com/explore/interestingfor images provides an interesting application foruser-centered design and evaluation.
As an iCLEFtask, searching for images from FLICKR presentsa new multilingual challenge which, to date, hasnot been explored.
Challenges include:?
Different types of associated text, e.g.
key-words, titles, comments and descriptionfields.?
Collective classification and annotation us-ing freely selected keywords (known as folk-sonomies) resulting in non-uniform and sub-jective categorization of images.?
Annotations in multiple languages.Given the multilingual nature of the FLICKRannotations, translating the user?s search requestwould provide the opportunity of increasing thenumber of images found and make more of thecollection accessible to a wider range of usersregardless of their language skills.
The aim ofiCLEF using FLICKR will be to determine howcross-language technologies could enhance ac-cess, and explore the user interaction resultingfrom this.4 Proposed tasksFor iCLEF, participants to this evaluation cam-paign will be provided with the following:?
A subset of the Flickr collection including an-notations and photographs7.?
Example (realistic) search tasks.
Ideallythese search tasks will reflect real user needswhich could be derived from log files, studiesor similar retrieval tasks.?
A framework in which to run an evaluation.5 SummaryFlickr will allow us to create an extremely in-teresting interactive task based on truly hetero-geneous annotations (that will in turn hopefullyattract more participants).
Using images fromwithin a Web environment is a realistic and con-temporary search challenge and allows many im-portant research questions to be addressed from7We are currently in negotiations with Yahoo!
(ownersof Flickr) and Flickr to provide researchers with legitimateaccess to a subset of the collection.71a quickly developing field.
User-centered studiesare required within both text and image retrieval,but are often neglected as they require more effortand time from participating groups than a system-centered comparison that can often be run with-out human intervention.
Still, user-centered eval-uation cannot be replaced and the influence of theuser on the results is in general stronger than theinfluence of the system itself.ReferencesPaul Clough, Henning Mu?ller, and Mark Sanderson.2005.
The clef 2004 cross language image retrievaltrack.
In Carol Peters, Paul Clough, Julio Gon-zalo, Gareth Jones, Michael Kluck, and BernardoMagnini, editors, Multilingual Information Accessfor Text, Speech and Images: Results of the FifthCLEF Evaluation Campaign, number 3491/2005 inLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 597?613.Springer, Heidelberg, Germany.Julio Gonzalo and Doug Oard.
2002.
The clef2002 interactive track.
In Advances in Cross-Language Information Retrieval, number 2785 inLecture Notes in Computer Science.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin-Heidelberg-New York.Julio Gonzalo, Paul Clough, and A Vallin.
2005.Overview of the clef 2005 interactive track.
InWorking notes of the CLEF workshop, Vienna, Aus-tria, September.Henning Mu?ller, Paul Clough, William Hersh, ThomasDeselaers, Thomas Lehmann, and Antoine Geiss-buhler.
2006.
Using heterogeneous annotation andvisual information for the benchmarking of imageretrieval systems.
In SPIE conference PhotonicsWest, Electronic Imaging, special session on bench-marking image retrieval systems, San Diego, Febru-ary.72Figure 1: Example multilingual annotations in Flickr.Figure 2: Retrieval of ?cats?
(left) and ?chats?
(right).73
