Proceedings of the BioNLP Workshop on Linking Natural Language Processing and Biology at HLT-NAACL 06, pages 1?8,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe Semantics of a Definiendum Constrains both the Lexical Semanticsand the Lexicosyntactic Patterns in the DefiniensHong Yu Ying WeiDepartment of Health Sciences Department of BiostatisticsUniversity of Wisconsin-Milwaukee Columbia UniversityMilwaukee, WI  53201 New York, NY 10032Hong.Yu@uwm.edu Ying.Wei@columbia.comAbstractMost current definitional question an-swering systems apply one-size-fits-alllexicosyntactic patterns to identify defini-tions.
By analyzing a large set of onlinedefinitions, this study shows that the se-mantic types of definienda constrain bothlexical semantics and lexicosyntactic pat-terns of the definientia.
For example,?heart?
has the semantic type [Body Part,Organ, or Organ Component] and itsdefinition (e.g., ?heart locates between thelungs?)
incorporates semantic-type-dependent lexicosyntactic patterns (e.g.,?TERM locates ??)
and terms (e.g.,?lung?
has the same semantic type [BodyPart, Organ, or Organ Component]).
Incontrast, ?AIDS?
has a different semantictype [Disease or Syndrome]; its definition(e.g., ?An infectious disease caused byhuman immunodeficiency virus?)
consistsof different lexicosyntactic patterns (e.g.,?
?causes by??)
and terms (e.g., ?infec-tious disease?
has the semantic type [Dis-ease or Syndrome]).
The semantic typesare defined in the widely used biomedicalknowledge resource, the Unified MedicalLanguage System (UMLS).1 IntroductionDefinitional questions (e.g., ?What is X??)
consti-tute an important question type and have been apart of the evaluation at the Text Retrieval Confer-ence (TREC) Question Answering Track since2003.
Most systems apply one-size-fits-all lexico-syntactic patterns to identify definitions (Liang etal.
2001; Blair-Goldensohn et al 2004;Hildebrandt et al 2004; Cui et al 2005).
For ex-ample, the pattern ?NP, (such as|like|including)query term?
can be used to identify the definition?New research in mice suggests that drugs such asRitalin quiet hyperactivity?
(Liang et al 2001).Few existing systems, however, have explored therelations between the semantic type (denoted asSDT) of a definiendum (i.e., a defined term (DT))and the semantic types (denoted as SDef) of terms inits definiens (i.e., definition).
Additionally, fewexisting systems have examined whether the lexi-cosyntactic patterns of definitions correlate withthe semantic types of the defined terms.By analyzing a large set of online definitions, thisstudy shows that 1) SDef correlates with SDT, and 2)SDT constrains the lexicosyntactic patterns of thecorresponding definitions.
In the following, wewill illustrate our findings with the following fourdefinitions:a.
Heart[Body Part, Organ, or Organ Component]: The hol-low[Spatial Concept] muscular[Spatial Concept] organ[Body Part,Organ, or Organ Component,Tissue]located[Spatial Concept] be-hind[Spatial Concept] the sternum[Body Part, Organ, or Organ Com-ponent] and between the lungs[Body Part, Organ, or OrganComponent].b.
Kidney[Body Part, Organ, or Organ Component]: The kid-neys are a pair of glandular organs[Body Part, Organ, orOrgan Component]located[Spatial Concept] in the abdomi-nal_cavities[Body Part, Organ, or Organ Component] of mam-mals[Mammal] and reptiles[Reptile].c.
Heart attack[Disease or Syndrome]: also called myo-cardial_infarction[Disease or Syndrome]; damage[FunctionalConcept]to the heart_muscle[Tissue] due to insufficient1blood supply[Organ or Tissue Function] for an extended[SpatialConcept]time_period[Temporal Concept].d.
AIDS[Disease or Syndrome]: An infec-tious_disease[Disease or Syndrome] caused[Functional Concept]by human_immunodeficiency_virus[Virus].In the above four definitions, the superscripts in[brackets] are the semantic types (e.g., [Body Part,Organ, or Organ Component] and [Disease or Syn-drome]) of the preceding terms.
A multiword termlinks words with the underscore ?_?.
For example,?heart?
IS-A [Body Part, Organ, or Organ Compo-nent] and ?heart_muscle?
IS-A [Tissue].
The se-mantic types are defined in the Semantic Network(SN) of the Unified Medical Language System(UMLS), the largest biomedical knowledge re-source.
Details of the UMLS and SN will be de-scribed in Section 2.
We applied MMTx (Aronsonet al 2004) to automatically map a string to theUMLS semantic types.
MMTx will also be de-scribed in Section 2.Simple analysis of the above four definitionsshows that given a defined term (DT) with a se-mantic type SDT (e.g., [Body Part, Organ, or OrganComponent]), terms that appear in the definitiontend to have the same or related semantic types(e.g., [Body Part, Organ, or Organ Component]and [Spatial Concept]).
Such observations werefirst reported as ?Aristotelian definitions?
(Bodenreider and Burgun 2002) in the limited do-main of anatomy.
(Rindflesch and Fiszman 2003)reported that the hyponym related to the definien-dum must be in an IS-A relation with the hy-pernym that is related to the definiens.
However,neither work demonstrated statistical patterns on alarge corpus as we report in this study.
Addition-ally, none of the work explicitly suggested the useof patterns to support question answering.In addition to statistical correlations among seman-tic types, the lexicosyntactic patterns of the defini-tions correlate with SDT.
For example, as shown bysentences a~d, when SDT is [Body Part, Organ, orOrgan Component], its lexicosyntactic patternsinclude ??located??.
In contrast, when SDT is[Disease or Syndrome], the patterns include?
?due to??
and ??
caused by?
?.In this study, we empirically studied statistical cor-relations between SDT and SDef and between SDT andthe lexicosyntactic patterns in the definitions.
Ourstudy is a result of detailed statistical analysis of36,535 defined terms and their 226,089 onlinedefinitions.
We built our semantic constraint modelbased on the widely used biomedical knowledgeresource, the UMLS.
We also adapted a robust in-formation extraction system to generate automati-cally a large number of lexicosyntactic patternsfrom definitions.
In the following, we will firstdescribe the UMLS and its semantic types.
We willthen describe our data collection and our methodsfor pattern generation.2 Unified Medical Language SystemThe Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) isthe largest biomedical knowledge source main-tained by the National Library of Medicine.
It pro-vides standardized biomedical concept relationsand synonyms (Humphreys et al 1998).
TheUMLS has been widely used in many natural lan-guage processing tasks, including information re-trieval (Eichmann et al 1998), extraction(Rindflesch et al 2000), and text summarization(Elhadad et al 2004; Fiszman et al 2004).The UMLS includes the Metathesaurus (MT),which contains over one million biomedical con-cepts and the Semantic Network (SN), whichrepresents a high-level abstraction from the UMLSMetathesaurus.
The SN consists of 134 semantictypes with 54 types of semantic relations (e.g., is-aor part-of) that relate the semantic types to eachother.
The UMLS Semantic Network providesbroad and general world knowledge that is relatedto human health.
Each UMLS concept is assignedone or more semantic types.The National Library of Medicine also makesavailable MMTx, a programming implementationof MetaMap (Aronson 2001), which maps free textto the UMLS concepts and associated semantictypes.
MMTx first parses text into sentences, thenchunks the sentences into noun phrases.
Eachnoun phrase is then mapped to a set of possibleUMLS concepts, taking into account spelling andmorphological variations; each concept isweighted, with the highest weight representing themost likely mapped concept.
One recent study hasevaluated MMTx to have 79% (Yu and Sable2005) accuracy for mapping a term to the semantic2type(s) in a small set of medical questions.
Anotherstudy (Lacson and Barzilay 2005) measuredMMTx to have a recall of 74.3% for capturing thesemantic types in another set of medical texts.In this study, we applied MMTx to identify thesemantic types of terms that appear in their defini-tions.
For each candidate term, MMTx ranks a listof UMLS concepts with confidence.
In this study,we selected the UMLS concept that was assignedwith the highest confidence by MMTx.
The UMLSconcepts were then used to obtain the correspond-ing semantic types.3 Data CollectionWe collected a large number of online definitionsfor the purpose of our study.
Specifically, we ap-plied more than 1 million of the UMLS concepts ascandidate definitional terms, and searched for thedefinitions from the World Wide Web using theGoogle:Definition service; this resulted in thedownloads of a total of 226,089 definitions thatcorresponded to a total of 36,535 UMLS concepts(or 3.7% of the total of 1 million UMLS concepts).We removed from definitions the defined terms;this step is necessary for our statistical studies,which we will explain later in the following sec-tions.
We applied MMTx to obtain the correspond-ing semantic types.4 Statistically Correlated Semantic TypesWe then identified statistically correlated semantictypes between SDT and SDef based on bivariate tabu-lar chi-square (Fleiss 1981).Specifically, given a semantic type STYi, i=1,2,3,?, 134of any defined term, the observed numbers of defi-nitions that were and were not assigned the STYiare O(Defi) and O(Defi).
All indicates the total226,089 definitions.
The observed numbers of defi-nitions in which the semantic type STYi, did and didnot appear were O(Alli) and O(Alli).
134 representsthe total number of the UMLS semantic types.
Weapplied formulas (1) and (2) to calculate expectedfrequencies and then the chi-square value (the de-gree of freedom is one).
A high chi-square valueindicates the importance of the semantic type thatappears in the definition.
We removed the definedterms from their definitions prior to the semantic-type statistical analysis in order to remove the biasintroduced by the defined terms (i.e., defined termsfrequently appear in the definitions).
( )iDefE = NNN iDef *, ( )iDefE = NNN iDef *,( )iAllE = NNN iAll *, ( )iAllE = N NN iAll *               (1)( )?
?= EOE 22?
(2)To determine whether the chi-square value is largeenough for statistical significance, we calculatedits p-value.
Typically, 0.05 is the cutoff of signifi-cance, i.e.
significance is accepted if the corre-sponding p-value is less than 0.05.
This criterionensures the chance of false significance (incor-rectly detected due to chance) is 0.05 for a singleSDT-SDef pair.
However, since there are 134*134possible SDT-SDef pairs, the chance for obtaining atleast one false significance could be very high.
Tohave a more conservative inference, we employeda Bonferroni-type correction procedure (Hochberg1988).Specifically, let )()2()1( mppp ???
L be the or-dered raw p-values, where m is the total number ofSDT-SDef pairs.
A SDef is significantly associatedwith a SDT if SDef?s corresponding p-value)1/()( +???
imp i ?
for some i.
This correctionprocedure allows the probability of at-least-one-false-significance out of the total m pairs is lessthan alpha (=0.05).The number of definitions for each SDT ranges from4 ([Entity]), 10 ([Event]), 17 ([Vertebrate]) to8,380 ([Amino Acid, Peptide, or Protein]) and18,461 ([Organic Chemical]) in our data collection.As the power of a statistical test relies on the sam-ple size, some correlated semantic types might beundetected when the number of available defini-tions is small.
It is therefore worthwhile to knowwhat the necessary sample size is in order to have adecent chance of detecting difference statistically.3For this task, we assume P0 and P1 are true prob-abilities that a STY will appear in NDef and NAll.Based upon that, we calculated the minimal re-quired number of sentences n such that the prob-ability of statistical significance will be larger thanor equal to 0.8.
This sample size is determinedbased on the following two assumptions: 1) theobserved frequencies are approximately normallydistributed, and 2) we use chi-square significanceto test the hypothesis P0 = P1 at significance level0.05 ( 210 PPP+= ).210200112.0025.0)())1()1()1(2(PPPPPPzPPzn?
?+?+?>        (3)5 Semantic Type DistributionOur null hypothesis is that given any pair of{SDT(X), SDT(Y)}, X ?
Y, where X and Y representtwo different semantic types of the total 134 se-mantic types, there are no statistical differences inthe distributions of the semantic types of the termsthat appear in the definitions.We applied the bivariate tabular chi-square test tomeasure the semantic type distribution.
Followingsimilar notations to Section 4, we use OXi and OYifor the corresponding frequencies of not being ob-served in SDef(X) and SDef(Y).For each semantic type STY, we calculate the ex-pected frequencies of being observed and not beingobserved in SDef(X) and SDef(Y), respectively, andtheir corresponding chi-square value according toformulas (3) and (4):iXE =iYiXNNOON++ )*(iYiXiX,iXE =iYiXiXNNOON++ )(*iYiX,iYE =iYiXNNOON++ )*(iYiXiY,iYE =iYiXiYNNOON++ )(*iYiX(4)( ) ( )?
?
?+?=iYiYiXiXiYX EOEEOE 2iY2iX2,,?
(5)where NX and NY are the numbers of sentences inSDef(X) and SDef(Y), respectively, and in both (4)and (5), 134,...,2,1=i , and (X, Y)=1,2,?, 134 andX ?
Y.
The degree of freedom is 1.
The chi-squarevalue measures whether the occurrences of STYi,are equivalent between SDef(X) and SDef(Y).
Thesame multiple testing correction procedure will beused to determine the significance of the chi-square value.
Note that if at least one STYi hasbeen detected to be statistically significant aftermultiple-testing correction, the distributions of thesemantic types are different between SDef(X) andSDef(Y).6 Automatically Identifying Semantic-Type-Dependent Lexicosyntactic PatternsMost current definitional question answering sys-tems generate lexicosyntactic patterns eithermanually or semi-automatically.
In this study, weautomatically generated large sets of lexicosyntac-tic patterns from our collection of online defini-tions.
We applied the information extractionsystem Autoslog-TS (Riloff and Philips 2004) toautomatically generate lexicosyntactic patterns indefinitions.
We then identified the statistical corre-lation between the semantic types of defined termsand their lexicosyntactic patterns in definitions.AutoSlog-TS is an information extraction systemthat is built upon AutoSlog (Riloff 1996).AutoSlog-TS automatically identifies extractionpatterns for noun phrases by learning from two setsof un-annotated texts relevant and non-relevant.AutoSlog-TS first generates every possible lexico-syntactic pattern to extract every noun phrase inboth collections of text and then computes statis-tics based on how often each pattern appears in therelevant text versus the background and outputs aranked list of extraction patterns coupled with sta-tistics indicating how strongly each pattern is asso-ciated with relevant and non-relevant texts.We grouped definitions based on the semantictypes of the defined terms.
For each semantic type,the relevant text incorporated the definitions, andthe non-relevant text incorporated an equal numberof sentences that were randomly selected from theMEDLINE collection.
For each semantic type, weapplied AutoSlog-TS to its associated relevant andnon-relevant sentence collections to generate lexi-cosyntactic patterns; this resulted in a total of 134sets of lexicosyntactic patterns that correspondedto different semantic types of defined terms.
Addi-tionally, we identified the common lexicosyntacticpatterns across the semantic types and ranked thelexicosyntactic patterns based on their frequenciesacross semantic types.4We also identified statistical correlations betweenSDT and the lexicosyntactic patterns in definitionsbased on chi-square statistics that we have de-scribed in the previous two sections.
For formula1~4, we replaced each STY with a lexicosyntacticpattern.
Our null hypothesis is that given any SDT,there are no statistical differences in the distribu-tions of the lexicosyntactic patterns that appear inthe definitions.Figure 1: A list of semantic types of de-fined terms with the top five statisticallycorrelated semantic types (P<<0.0001) thatappear in their definitions.7 ResultsOur chi-square statistics show that for any pair ofsemantic types {SDT(X), SDT(Y)}, X ?
Y, the distri-butions of SDef are statistically different at al-pha=0.05; the results show that the semantic typesof the defined terms correlate to the semantic typesin the definitions.
Our results also show that thesyntactic patterns are distributed differently amongdifferent semantic types of the defined terms (al-pha=0.05).Our results show that many semantic types thatappear in definitions are statistically correlatedwith the semantic types of the defined terms.
Theaverage number and standard deviation of statisti-cally correlated semantic types is 80.6?35.4 atP<<0.0001.Figure 1 shows three SDT ([Body Part, Organ, orOrgan Component], [Disease or Syndrome], and[Organization]) with the corresponding top fivestatistically correlated semantic types that appearin their definitions.
Our results show that in a totalof 112 (or 83.6%) cases, SDT appears as one of thetop five statistically correlated semantic types inSDef, and that in a total of 94 (or 70.1%) cases,  SDTappears at the top in SDef.
Our results indicate thatif a definitional term has a semantic type SDT, thenthe terms in its definition tend to have the same orrelated semantic types.We examined the cases in which the semantictypes of definitional terms do not appear in the topfive semantic types in the definitions.
We foundthat in all of those cases, the total numbers of defi-nitions that were used for statistical analysis weretoo small to obtain statistical significance.
For ex-ample, when SDT is ?Entity?, the minimum size fora SDef  was 4.75, which is larger than the total num-ber of the definitions (i.e., 4).
As a result, someactually correlated semantic types might be unde-tected due to insufficient sample size.Our results also show that the lexicosyntactic pat-terns of definitional sentences are SDT-dependent.Our results show that many lexicosyntactic pat-terns that appear in definitions are statistically cor-related with the semantic types of defined terms.The average number and standard deviation of sta-tistically correlated lexico-syntactic patterns is1656.7?1818.9 at P<<0.0001.
We found that themore definitions an SDT has, the more lexicosyntac-tic patterns.Figure 2 shows the top 10 lexicosyntactic patterns(based on chi-square statistics) that were capturedby Autoslog-TS with three different SDT; namely,[Disease or Syndrome], [Body Part, Organ, orOrgan Component], and [Organization].
Figure 3shows the top 10 lexicosyntactic patterns rankedby AutoSlog-TS which incorporated the frequen-cies of the patterns (Riloff and Philips 2004).Figure 4 lists the top 30 common patterns acrossall different semantic types SDT.
We found thatmany common lexicosyntactic patterns (e.g.,?
?known as?
?, ?
?called?, ??include??)
havebeen identified by other research groups througheither manual or semi-automatic pattern discovery(Blair-Goldensohn et al 2004).5Figure 2: The top 10 lexicosyntactic patterns that appear in definitions based on chi-square statis-tics.
The defined terms have one of the three semantic types [Disease_or_Syndrome], [Body Part,Organ, or Organ Component], and [Organization].Figure 3: The top 10 lexicosyntactic patterns ranked by Autoslog-TS.
The defined terms haveone of the three semantic types [Disease_or_Syndrome], [Body Part, Organ, or Organ Compo-nent], and [Organization].Figure 4: The top 30 common lexicosyntactic patterns generated across patterns with different DTS .8  DiscussionThe statistical correlations between SDT and SDefmay be useful to enhance the performance of adefinition-question-answering system by at leasttwo means.
First, the semantic types may be usefulfor word sense disambiguation.
A simple applica-tion is to rank definitional sentences based on thedistributions of the semantic types of terms in thedefinitions to capture the definition of a specificsense.
For example, a biomedical definitional ques-tion answering system may exclude the definitionof other senses (e.g., ?feeling?
as shown in the sen-tence ?The locus of feelings and intuitions; ?inyour heart you know it is true?
; ?her story wouldmelt your heart.??)
if the semantic types that define?heart?
do not include [Body Part, Organ, or OrganComponent] of terms other than ?heart?.Secondly, the semantic-type correlations may beused as features to exclude non-definitional sen-tences.
For example, a biomedical definitionalquestion answering system may exclude the fol-lowing non-definitional sentence ?Heart rate was6unaffected by the drug?
because the semantic typesin the sentence do not include [Body Part, Organ,or Organ Component] of terms other than ?heart?.SDT-dependent lexicosyntactic patterns may en-hance both the recall and precision of a definitionalquestion answering system.
First, the large sets oflexicosyntactic patterns we generated automati-cally may expand the smaller sets of lexicosyntac-tic patterns that have been reported by the existingquestion answering systems.
Secondly, SDT-dependent lexicosyntactic patterns may be used tocapture definitions.The common lexicosyntactic patterns we identified(in Figure 4) may be useful for a generic defini-tional question answering system.
For example, adefinitional question answering system may im-plement the most common patterns to detect anygeneric definitions; specific patterns may be im-plemented to detect definitions with specific SDT.One limitation of our work is that the lexicosyntac-tic patterns generated by Autoslog-TS are withinclauses.
This is a disadvantage because 1) lexico-syntactic patterns can extend beyond clauses (Cuiet al 2005) and 2) frequently a definition has mul-tiple lexicosyntactic patterns.
Many of the patternsmight not be generalizible.
For example, as shownin Figure 2, some of the top ranked patterns (e.g.,?Subj_AuxVp_<dobj>_BE_ARMY>?)
identifiedby AutoSlog-TS may be too specific to the textcollection.
The pattern-ranking method introducedby AutoSlog-TS takes into consideration the fre-quency of a pattern and therefore is a better rank-ing method than the chi-square ranking (shown inFigure 3).9  Related WorkSystems have used named entities (e.g.,?PEOPLE?
and ?LOCATION?)
to assist in infor-mation extraction (Agichtein and Gravano 2000)and question answering (Moldovan et al 2002;Filatova and Prager 2005).
Semantic constraintswere first explored by (Bodenreider and Burgun2002; Rindflesch and Fiszman 2003) who observedthat the principle nouns in definientia are fre-quently semantically related (e.g., hyponyms, hy-pernyms, siblings, and synonyms) to definiena.Semantic constraints have been introduced to defi-nitional question answering (Prager et al 2000;Liang et al 2001).
For example, an artist?s workmust be completed between his birth and death(Prager et al 2000); and the hyponyms of definedterms might be incorporated in the definitions(Liang et al 2001).
Semantic correlations havebeen explored in other areas of NLP.
For example,researchers (Turney 2002; Yu and Hatzivassi-loglou 2003) have identified semantic correlationbetween words and views: positive words tend toappear more frequently in positive movie andproduct reviews and newswire article sentencesthat have a positive semantic orientation and viceversa for negative reviews or sentences with anegative semantic orientation.10 Conclusions and Future WorkThis is the first study in definitional question an-swering that concludes that the semantics of a de-finiendum constrain both the lexical semantics andthe lexicosyntactic patterns in the definition.
Ourdiscoveries may be useful for the building of abiomedical definitional question answering system.Although our discoveries (i.e., that the semantictypes of the definitional terms determine both thelexicosyntactic patterns and the semantic types inthe definitions) were evaluated with the knowledgeframework from the biomedical, domain-specificknowledge resource the UMLS, the principles maybe generalizable to any type of semantic classifica-tion of definitions.
The semantic constraints mayenhance both recall and precision of one-size-fits-all question answering systems, which may beevaluated in future work.As stated in the Discussion session, one disadvan-tage of this study is that the lexicosyntactic pat-terns generated by Autoslog-TS are within clauses.Future work needs to develop pattern-recognitionsystems that are capable of detecting patternsacross clauses.In addition, future work needs to move beyondlexicosyntactic patterns to extract semantic-lexicosyntactic patterns and to evaluate how thesemantic-lexicosyntactic   patterns    can    enhancedefinitional question answering.7Acknowledgement: The author thanks SashaBlair-Goldensohn, Vijay Shanker, and especiallythe three anonymous reviewers who provide valu-able critics and comments.
The concepts ?Defini-endum?
and ?Definiens?
come from one of thereviewers?
recommendation.ReferencesAgichtein E, Gravano L (2000) Snowball: extractingrelations from large plain-text collections.
.
Paperpresented at Proceedings of the 5th ACM Interna-tional Conference on Digital LibrariesAronson A (2001) Effective Mapping of BiomedicalText to the UMLS Metathesaurus: The MetaMapProgram.
Paper presented at American Medical In-formation AssociationAronson A, Mork J, Gay G, Humphrey S, Rogers W(2004) The NLM Indexing Initiative's Medical TextIndexer.
Paper presented at MedInfo 2004Blair-Goldensohn S, McKeown K, Schlaikjer A (2004)Answering Definitional Questions: A Hybrid Ap-proach.
In: Maybury M (ed) New Directions InQuestion Answering.
AAAI PressBodenreider O, Burgun A (2002) Characterizing thedefinitions of anatomical concepts in WordNet andspecialized sources.
Paper presented at The FirstGlobal WordNet ConferenceCui H, Kan M, Cua T (2005) Generic soft pattern mod-els for definitional question answering.
.
Paper pre-sented at The 28th Annual International ACMSIGIR Salvado, BrazilEichmann D, Ruiz M, Srinivasan P (1998) Cross-language information retrieval with the UMLSmetathesaurus.
Paper presented at SIGIRElhadad N, Kan M, Klavans J, McKeown K (2004)Customization in a unified framework for summa-rizing medical literature.
Journal of Artificial Intel-ligence in MedicineFilatova E, Prager J (2005) Tell me what you do and I'lltell you what you are: learning occupation-relatedactivities for biographies.
Paper presented atHLT/EMNLP 2005.
Vancouver, CanadaFiszman M, Rindflesch T, Kilicoglu H (2004) Abstrac-tion Summarization for Managing the BiomedicalResearch Literature.
Paper presented at HLT-NAACL 2004: Computational Lexical SemanticWorkshopFleiss J (1981) Statistical methods for rates and propor-tions.Hildebrandt W, Katz B, Lin J (2004) Answering defini-tion questions with multiple knowledge sources.
.Paper presented at HLT/NAACLHochberg Y (1988) A sharper Bonferroni procedure formultiple tests of significance.
Biometrika 75:800-802Humphreys BL, Lindberg DA, Schoolman HM, BarnettGO (1998) The Unified Medical Language System:an informatics research collaboration.
J Am MedInform Assoc 5:1-11.Lacson R, Barzilay R (2005) Automatic processing ofspoken dialogue in the hemodialysis domain.
Paperpresented at Proc AMIA SympLiang L, Liu C, Xu Y-Q, Guo B, Shum H-Y (2001)Real-time texture synthesis by patch-based sam-pling.
ACM Trans Graph 20:127--150Moldovan D, Harabagiu S, Girju R, Morarescu P, Laca-tusu F, Novischi A, Badulescu A, Bolohan O(2002) LCC tools for question answering.
Paperpresented at The Eleventh Text REtrieval Confer-ence (TREC 2002)Prager J, Brown E, Coden A, Radev D (2000) Quesiton-answering by predictive annotation.
Paper pre-sented at Proceeding 22nd Annual InternationalACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Devel-opment in Information RetrievalRiloff E (1996) Automatically generating extractionpatterns from untagged text.
.
Paper presented atAAAI-96Riloff E, Philips W (2004) An introduction to the Sun-dance and AutoSlog Systems.
Technical Report#UUCS-04-015.
University of Utah School ofComputing.Rindflesch T, Tanabe L, Weinstein J, Hunter L (2000)EDGAR: extraction of drugs, genes and relationsfrom the biomedical literature.
Pac Symp Biocom-put:517-528.Rindflesch TC, Fiszman M (2003) The interaction ofdomain knowledge and linguistic structure in natu-ral language processing: interpreting hypernymicpropositions in biomedical text.
J Biomed Inform36:462-477Turney P (2002) Thumbs up or thumbs down?
Semanticorientation applied to unsupervised classification ofreviews.
Paper presented at ACL 2002Yu H, Hatzivassiloglou V (2003) Towards answeringopinion questions: Separating facts from opinionsand identifying the polarity of opinion sentences.Paper presented at Proceedings of the 2003 Confer-ence on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing (EMNLP 2003)Yu H, Sable C (2005) Being Erlang Shen: Identifyinganswerable questions.
Paper presented at Nine-teenth International Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence on Knowledge and Reasoning for An-swering Questions8
