A proposal to automatically build and maintain gazetteers for NamedEntity Recognition by using WikipediaAntonio ToralUniversity of AlicanteCarretera San Vicente S/NAlicante 03690, Spainatoral@dlsi.ua.esRafael Mun?ozUniversity of AlicanteCarretera San Vicente S/NAlicante 03690, Spainrafael@dlsi.ua.esAbstractThis paper describes a method to automat-ically create and maintain gazetteers forNamed Entity Recognition (NER).
Thismethod extracts the necessary informationfrom linguistic resources.
Our approach isbased on the analysis of an on-line ency-clopedia entries by using a noun hierarchyand optionally a PoS tagger.
An impor-tant motivation is to reach a high level oflanguage independence.
This restricts thetechniques that can be used but makes themethod useful for languages with few re-sources.
The evaluation carried out provesthat this approach can be successfully usedto build NER gazetteers for location (F78%) and person (F 68%) categories.1 IntroductionNamed Entity Recognition (NER) was defined atthe MUC conferences (Chinchor, 1998) as the taskconsisting of detecting and classifying strings oftext which are considered to belong to differentclasses (e.g.
person, location, organization, date,time).
Named Entities are theoretically identifiedand classified by using evidence.
Two kinds ofevidence have been defined (McDonald, 1996).These are internal and external evidence.
Internalevidence is the one provided from within the se-quence of words that constitute the entity.
In con-trast, external evidence is the criteria that can beobtained by the context in which entities appear.Since the time NER was introduced, mainly twoapproaches have been adopted to deal with thistask.
One is referred as knowledge-based and usesexplicit resources like rules and gazetteers, whichcommonly are hand-crafted.
The other follows thelearning paradigm and usually uses as a resource atagged corpus which is used to train a supervisedlearning algorithm.In the knowledge-based approach two kind ofgazetteers can be distinguished.
On one hand thereare trigger gazetteers, which contain key wordsthat indicate the possible presence of an entity ofa given type.
These words usually are commonnouns.
E.g.
ms. indicates that the entity after itis a person entity.
On the other hand there are en-tity gazetteers which contain entities themselves,which usually are proper nouns.
E.g.
Portugalcould be an instance in a location gazetteer.Initially, and specially for the MUC confer-ences, most of the NER systems developed didbelong to the knowledge-based approach.
This ap-proach proved to be able to obtain high scores.
Infact, the highest score obtained by a knowledge-based system in MUC-7 reached F 93.39 %(Mikheev et al, 1998).
However, this approachhas an important problem: gazetteers and rules aredifficult and tedious to develop and to maintain.
Ifthe system is to be used for an open domain, lin-guistic experts are needed to build the rules, andbesides, it takes too much time to tune these re-sources in order to obtain satisfactory results.
Be-cause of this, lately most of the research falls intothe learning-based paradigm.Regarding the creation and maintenance ofgazetteers, several problems have been identified,these are mainly:?
Creation and maintenance effort?
Overlaps between gazetteersThe first problem identified assumes that thegazetteers are manually created and maintained.However, this is not always the case.
Gazetteers56could be automatically created and maintained byextracting the necessary information from avail-able linguistic resources, which we think is apromising line of future research.Several research works have been carried out inthis direction.
An example of this is a NER sys-tem which uses trigger gazetteers automaticallyextracted from WordNet (Magnini et al, 2002)by using wordnet predicates.
The advantage inthis case is that the resource used is multilingualand thus, porting it to another language is almoststraightforward (Negri and Magnini, 2004).There is also a work that deals with automat-ically building location gazetteers from internettexts by applying text mining procedures (Ouri-oupina, 2002), (Uryupina, 2003).
However, thiswork uses linguistic patterns, and thus is languagedependent.
The author claims that the approachmay successfully be used to create gazetteers forNER.We agree with (Magnini et al, 2002) that in or-der to automatically create and maintain triggergazetteers, using a hierarchy of common nouns isa good approach.
Therefore, we want to focus onthe automatically creation and maintenance of en-tity gazetteers.
Another reason for this is that theclass of common nouns (the ones being triggers) ismuch more stable than the class of proper names(the ones in entity gazetteers).
Because of this,the maintenance of the latter is important as newentities to be taken into account appear.
For exam-ple, if we refer to presidents, the trigger word usedmight be ?president?
and it is uncommon that thetrigger used to refer to them changes over time.On the other hand, the entities being presidentschange as new presidents appear and current pres-idents will disappear.Our aim is to find a method which allow us toautomatically create and maintain entity gazetteersby extracting the necessary information from lin-guistic resources.
An important restriction though,is that we want our method to be as independent oflanguage as possible.The rest of this paper is structured as follows.In the next section we discuss about our proposal.Section three presents the results we have obtainedand some comments about them.
Finally, in sec-tion four we outline our conclusions and futurework.2 ApproachIn this section we present our approach to auto-matically build and maintain dictionaries of propernouns.
In a nutshell, we analyse the entries of anencyclopedia with the aid of a noun hierarchy.
Ourmotivation is that proper nouns that form entitiescan be obtained from the entries in an encyclo-pedia and that some features of their definitionsin the encyclopedia can help to classify them intotheir correct entity category.The encyclopedia used has been Wikipedia1 .According to the English version of Wikipedia2, Wikipedia is a multi-lingual web-based, free-content encyclopedia which is updated continu-ously in a collaborative way.
The reasons why wehave chosen this encyclopedia are the following:?
It is a big source of information.
By De-cember 2005, it has over 2,500,000 defini-tions.
The English version alone has morethan 850,000 entries.?
Its content has a free license, meaning that itwill always be available for research withoutrestrictions and without needing to acquireany license.?
It is a general knowledge resource.
Thus, itcan be used to extract information for opendomain systems.?
Its data has some degree of formality andstructure (e.g.
categories) which helps to pro-cess it.?
It is a multilingual resource.
Thus, if we areable to develop a language independent sys-tem, it can be used to create gazetteers for anylanguage for which Wikipedia is available.?
It is continuously updated.
This is a veryimportant fact for the maintenance of thegazetteers.The noun hierarchy used has been the noun hi-erarchy from WordNet (Miller, 1995).
This is awidely used resource for NLP tasks.
Althoughinitially being a monolingual resource for the En-glish language, a later project called EuroWordNet(Vossen, 1998), provided wordnet-like hierarchies1http://www.wikipedia.org2http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main Page57for a set of languages of the European Union.
Be-sides, EuroWordNet defines a language indepen-dent index called Inter-Lingual-Index (ILI) whichallows to establish relations between words inwordnets of different languages.
The ILI facili-tates also the development of wordnets for otherlanguages.From this noun hierarchy we consider the nodes(called synsets in WordNet) which in our opinionrepresent more accurately the different kind of en-tities we are working with (location, organizationand person).
For example, we consider the synset6026 as the corresponding to the entity class Per-son.
This is the information contained in synsetnumber 6026:person, individual, someone,somebody, mortal,human, soul -- (a human being;"there was too much for one personto do")Given an entry from Wikipedia, a PoS-tagger(Carreras et al, 2004) is applied to the first sen-tence of its definition.
As an example, the firstsentence of the entry Portugal in the Simple En-glish Wikipedia 3 is presented here:Portugal portugal NNis be VBZa a DTcountry country NNin in INthe the DTsouth-west south-west NNof of INEurope Europe NP.
.
FpFor every noun in a definition we obtain thesynset of WordNet that contains its first sense4.We follow the hyperonymy branch of this synsetuntil we arrive to a synset we have considered be-longing to an entity class or we arrive to the root ofthe hierarchy.
If we arrive to a considered synset,then we consider that noun as belonging to the en-tity class of the considered synset.
The followingexample may clarify this explanation:portugal --> LOCATION3http://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portugal4We have also carried out experiments taking into accountall the senses provided by WordNet.
However, the perfor-mance obtained is not substantially better while the process-ing time increases notably.country --> LOCATIONsouth-west --> NONEeurope --> LOCATIONAs it has been said in the abstract, the appli-cation of a PoS tagger is optional.
The algorithmwill perform considerably faster with it as with thePoS data we only need to process the nouns.
If aPoS tagger is not available for a language, the al-gorithm can still be applied.
The only drawbackis that it will perform slower as it needs to pro-cess all the words.
However, through our experi-mentation we can conclude that the results do notsignificantly change.Finally, we apply a weighting algorithm whichtakes into account the amount of nouns in the defi-nition identified as belonging to the different entitytypes considered and decides to which entity typethe entry belongs.
This algorithm has a constantKappa which allows to increase or decrease thedistance required within categories in order to as-sign an entry to a given class.
The value of Kappais the minimum difference of number of occur-rences between the first and second most frequentcategories in an entry in order to assign the entryto the first category.
In our example, for any valueof Kappa lower than 4, the algorithm would saythat the entry Portugal belongs to the location en-tity type.Once we have this basic approach we apply dif-ferent heuristics which we think may improve theresults obtained and which effect will be analysedin the section about results.The first heuristic, called is instance, tries to de-termine whether the entries from Wikipedia are in-stances (e.g.
Portugal) or word classes (e.g.
coun-try).
This is done because of the fact that namedentities only consider instances.
Therefore, we arenot interested in word classes.
We consider that anentry from Wikipedia is an instance when it has anassociated entry in WordNet and it is an instance.The procedure to determine if an entry from Word-Net is an instance or a word class is similar to theone used in (Magnini et al, 2002).The second heuristic is called is in wordnet.
Itsimply determines if the entries from Wikipediahave an associated entry in WordNet.
If so, wemay use the information from WordNet to deter-mine its category.583 Experiments and resultsWe have tested our approach by applying it to3517 entries of the Simple English Wikipediawhich were randomly selected.
Thus, these en-tries have been manually tagged with the expectedentity category5.
The distribution by entity classescan be seen in table 1:As it can be seen in table 1, the amount of enti-ties of the categories Person and Location are bal-anced but this is not the case for the type Organi-zation.
There are very few instances of this type.This is understandable as in an encyclopedia lo-cations and people are defined but this is not theusual case for organizations.According to what was said in section 2, weconsidered the heuristics explained there by car-rying out two experiments.
In the first one weapplied the is instance heuristic.
The second ex-periment considers the two heuristics explained insection 2 (is instance and is in wordnet).
We donot present results without the first heuristic asthrough our experimentation it proved to increaseboth recall and precision for every entity category.For each experiment we considered two valuesof a constant Kappa which is used in our algo-rithm.
The values are 0 and 2 as through exper-imentation we found these are the values whichprovide the highest recall and the highest preci-sion, respectively.
Results for the first experimentcan be seen in table 2 and results for the secondexperiment in table 3.As it can be seen in these tables, the best re-call for all classes is obtained in experiment 2 withKappa 0 (table 3) while the best precision is ob-tained in experiment 1 with Kappa 2 (table 2).The results both for location and person cat-egories are in our opinion good enough to thepurpose of building and maintaining good qualitygazetteers after a manual supervision.
However,the results obtained for the organization class arevery low.
This is mainly due to the fact of thehigh interaction between this category and loca-tion combined with the practically absence of tra-ditional entities of the organization type such ascompanies.
This interaction can be seen in the in-depth results which presentation follows.In order to clarify these results, we present morein-depth data in tables 4 and 5.
These tablespresent an error analysis, showing the false posi-5This data is available for research at http://www.dlsi.ua.es/?atoral/index.html\#resourcestives, false negatives, true positives and true nega-tives among all the categories for the configurationthat provides the highest recall (experiment 2 withKappa 0) and for the one that provides the highestprecision (experiment 1 with Kappa 2).In tables 4 and 5 we can see that the interactionswithin classes (occurrences tagged as belonging toone class but NONE and guessed as belonging toother different class but NONE) is low.
The onlycase in which it is significant is between locationand organization.
In table 5 we can see that 12 en-tities tagged as organization are classified as LOCwhile 20 tagged as organization are guessed withthe correct type.
Following with these, 5 entitiestagged as location where classified as organiza-tion.
This is due to the fact that countries andrelated entities such as ?European Union?
can beconsidered both as organizations or locations de-pending on their role in a text.4 ConclusionsWe have presented a method to automatically cre-ate and maintain entity gazetteers using as re-sources an encyclopedia, a noun hierarchy and,optionally, a PoS tagger.
The method proves to behelpful for these tasks as it facilitates the creationand maintenance of this kind of resources.In our opinion, the principal drawback of oursystem is that it has a low precision for the con-figuration for which it obtains an acceptable valueof recall.
Therefore, the automatically createdgazetteers need to pass a step of manual supervi-sion in order to have a good quality.On the positive side, we can conclude that ourmethod is helpful as it takes less time to automat-ically create gazetteers with our method and afterthat to supervise them than to create that dictio-naries from scratch.
Moreover, the updating of thegazetteers is straightforward; just by executing theprocedure, the new entries in Wikipedia (the en-tries that did not exist at the time the procedurewas performed the last time) would be analysedand from these set, the ones detected as entitieswould be added to the corresponding gazetteers.Another important fact is that the method hasa high degree of language independence; in or-der to apply this approach to a new language, weneed a version of Wikipedia and WordNet for thatlanguage, but the algorithm and the process doesnot change.
Therefore, we think that our methodcan be useful for the creation of gazetteers for lan-59Entity type Number of instances PercentageNONE 2822LOC 404 58ORG 55 8PER 236 34Table 1: Distribution by entity classesk LOC ORG PERprec rec F?=1 prec rec F?=1 prec rec F?=10 66.90 94.55 78.35 28.57 18.18 22.22 61.07 77.11 68.162 86.74 56.68 68.56 66.66 3.63 6.89 86.74 30.50 45.14Table 2: Experiment 1.
Results applying is instance heuristick LOC ORG PERprec rec F?=1 prec rec F?=1 prec rec F?=10 62.88 96.03 76.00 16.17 20.00 17.88 43.19 84.74 57.222 77.68 89.60 83.21 13.95 10.90 12.24 46.10 62.71 53.14Table 3: Experiment 2.
Results applying is instance and is in wordnet heuristicsTagged GuessedNONE LOC ORG PERNONE 2777 33 1 11LOC 175 229 0 0ORG 52 1 2 0PER 163 1 0 72Table 4: Results fn-fp (results 1 k=2)Tagged GuessedNONE LOC ORG PERNONE 2220 196 163 243LOC 8 387 5 4ORG 20 12 20 3PER 30 9 2 195Table 5: Results fn-fp (results 2 k=0)60guages in which NER gazetteers are not availablebut have Wikipedia and WordNet resources.During the development of this research, severalfuture works possibilities have appeared.
Regard-ing the task we have developed, we consider tocarry out new experiments incorporating featuresthat Wikipedia provides such as links betweenpairs of entries.
Following with this, we considerto test more complex weighting techniques for ouralgorithm.Besides, we think that the resulting gazetteersfor the configurations that provide high precisionand low recall, although not being appropriate forbuilding gazetteers for NER systems, can be in-teresting for other tasks.
As an example, we con-sider to use them to extract verb frequencies forthe entity categories considered which can be laterused as features for a learning based Named EntityRecogniser.AcknowledgementsThis research has been partially funded by theSpanish Government under project CICyT num-ber TIC2003-07158-C04-01 and by the ValenciaGovernment under project number GV04B-268.We also would like to specially thank BorjaNavarro for his valuable help on WordNet.ReferencesX.
Carreras, I. Chao, L.
Padro?, and M. Padro?.
2004.Freeling: An Open-Source Suite of Language Ana-lyzers.
In Proceedings of the 4th LREC Conference.N.
Chinchor.
1998.
Overview of MUC-7.
In Proceed-ings of the Seventh Message Understanding Confer-ence (MUC-7).B.
Magnini, M. Negri, R. Preete, and H. Tanev.
2002.A wordnet-based approach to named entities recog-nition.
In Proceedings of SemaNet ?02: Buildingand Using Semantic Networks, pages 38?44.D.
McDonald.
1996.
Internal and external evidencein the identification and semantic categorization ofproper names.
Corpus Processing for Lexical Aqui-sition, pages 21?39, chapter 2.A.
Mikheev, C. Grover, and M. Moens.
1998.
Descrip-tion of the LTG system used for MUC-7.
In SeventhMessage Understanding Conference (MUC-7): Pro-ceedings of a Conference held in Fairfax, Virginia,29 April-1 May.G.
A. Miller.
1995.
Wordnet: A lexical database forenglish.
Communications of ACM, (11):39?41.M.
Negri and B. Magnini.
2004.
Using wordnet pred-icates for multilingual named entity recognition.
InProceedings of The Second Global Wordnet Confer-ence, pages 169?174.O.
Ourioupina.
2002.
Extracting geographical knowl-edge from the internet.
In Proceedings of the ICDM-AM International Workshop on Active Mining.O.
Uryupina.
2003.
Semi-supervised learning of geo-graphical gazetteers from the internet.
In Proceed-ings of the HLT-NAACL 2003 Workshop on Analysisof Geographic References, pages 18?25.P.
Vossen.
1998.
Introduction to eurowordnet.
Com-puters and the Humanities, 32:73?89.61
