Proceedings of the 7th SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 68?75,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantic and Pragmatic Presupposition in Discourse RepresentationTheoryYafa Al-RahebNational Centre for Language TechnologySchool of ComputingDublin City University, Irelandyafa.alraheb@gmail.comAbstractThis paper investigates semantic and prag-matic presupposition in Discourse Repre-sentation Theory (DRT) and enhances thepragmatic perspective of presupposition inDRT.
In doing so, it draws attention to theneed to account for agent presupposition(i.e.
both speaker and hearer presuppo-sition) when dealing with pragmatic pre-supposition.
Furthermore, this paper linksthis pragmatic conception of presupposi-tion with the semantic one (sentence pre-supposition) through using ?informationchecks?
which agents are hypothesized toemploy when making and receiving utter-ances.11 IntroductionDRT, with its detailed apparatus for the representa-tion of context, offers the most obvious frameworkfor investigating presupposition in depth (Kamp1984, 1988, 1990, 1995, 2001a, 2001b; Kamp andReyle 1993; Kamp et al 2005).
However, de-spite the suitability of DRT for pursuing a detailedaccount of presupposition, it is argued that in or-der to enrich our understanding of presuppositionwithin the DRT framework, this framework itselfneeds to be modified (cf.
Al-Raheb 2005).
The ap-proach presented in this paper understands presup-position within the parameters of dynamic seman-tics (van der Sandt 1992), part of which is DRT,but attempts to go beyond that in order to make theunderstanding of presupposition within DRT morepragmatic.
The dynamic semantics view of pre-supposition is incomplete from a pragmatic stand-point because it neglects the connection between1I gratefully acknowledge support from Science Founda-tion Ireland grant 04/IN/I527.beliefs and presupposition, hence neglecting theconnection between pragmatic presupposition andsemantic presupposition in DRT.To account for pragmatic presupposition as wellas making presupposition within DRT more prag-matic, presupposition is understood to be a prop-erty of the agent.
In essence, the effect of pre-supposition is to give insights about the speaker?sbeliefs as well as the speaker?s beliefs about thehearer?s beliefs.
Speaker belief leads to presuppo-sition, which indicates the beliefs of the speakerto the hearer.
Presupposition is a reflection of thespeaker?s state of mind.
This is stronger than whatis generally conceded in the literature.
Geurts(1996, 1998, 1999) maintains that a presupposi-tion should not necessarily reflect the beliefs ofthe speaker, but rather the speaker?s commitmentto the truth of the presupposition.
If, for example,we were to use Stalnaker?s (2002) example,(1) I have to pick my sister up from the air-port.Geurts argues that the speaker does not have to be-lieve she has a sister, but just needs to be ?commit-ted to?
the truth of the presupposition that she has asister.
In other words, the speaker need only com-mit to the presupposition (P) being true.
The ap-proach presented here takes a somewhat strongerposition than Geurts?
position (Geurts 1999) be-cause it assumes that Grice?s Cooperative Princi-ple is in place (Grice 1975, 1989).
If we make thesimplifying assumption that the agents in the dia-logue are being cooperative, are not lying, are be-ing relevant, etc., we can take the stronger positionthat the information introduced by the presupposi-tion, here ?having a sister?, is indeed a belief heldby the speaker.68Figure 1: Speaker, Sentence and Hearer PresuppositionViewing presupposition from the more prag-matic perspective of the agents?
point of viewin dialogue leads us to viewing presuppositionfrom both the speaker?s and the hearer?s pointsof view.
Distinguishing speaker presuppositionfrom hearer presupposition helps make the ap-proach to presupposition within DRT more prag-matic, since we are speaking not of truth condi-tions but of states of mind in communicative in-teraction.
Therefore, this paper deals with twotypes of agent presupposition, speaker presuppo-sition and hearer presupposition (cf.
section 3).This is different from semantic presupposition, i.e.sentence presupposition (cf.
section 2).
Agentpresupposition differs from sentence presupposi-tion in that the latter stems from sentence mean-ing, whereas the former attaches itself to the be-liefs of the speaker and her intentions.
It is arguedhere that the semantic and pragmatic notions ofpresupposition in DRT can be linked through link-ing agents?
beliefs to the utterance being commu-nicated.2 Semantic and PragmaticPresuppositionThe literature has mostly considered the hearer?sside of receiving the presupposition when deal-ing with agent presupposition (pragmatics) as op-posed to sentence presupposition (semantics).
Forinstance, van der Sandt (1992) deals with accom-modation from the hearer?s perspective, not dis-tinguishing between speaker and hearer presup-position.
However, the relationship between sen-tence presupposition and agent presupposition canbe explained by dividing agent presupposition intospeaker presupposition and hearer presupposition.From the speaker?s point of view, speakersmake utterances to communicate new informa-tion.
Generally speaking, to generate a commu-nicatively meaningful utterance, there would besome discrepancy between the speaker?s beliefsand the speaker?s beliefs about the hearer?s be-liefs.
The discrepancy leads to an assertion, A,which may need presupposed arguments to be un-derstood.
First, the speaker decides on the asser-tion after checking belief discrepancies.
Then, thespeaker finds the right presuppositions to be ableto communicate the assertion.Hearer presupposition differs in that utterancesare split into presupposition and assertion, wherepossible, and presuppositions are first needed toestablish links to objects in order for the new in-formation to be understood by the hearer.
For ahearer, assertions build on presupposition and theprocedure is bottom-up (assertion is supported bypresupposition).2Therefore, in line with linking the speaker?sbeliefs with the linguistic utterance and the lin-guistic utterance with the hearer?s beliefs, thespeaker?s presupposition is conveyed through thespeaker?s utterance (sentence presupposition), andthe speaker?s utterance leads to the hearer?s pre-supposition.
This interaction between the seman-tic and pragmatic notions of presupposition is amore balanced conception of presupposition (cf.Figure 1).With regard to the A part of an utterance re-ceived by the hearer, the hearer can first ?accept?,or ?weakly believe?, the new information and lateron turn that weak belief into a belief, by adding itto her belief set (Al-Raheb 2005).
However, it isworth mentioning that when making an utterance,both the speaker and the hearer focus their atten-tion on A, which can get accepted by the hearer.In such a case, the hearer may later adopt A asa belief and indicate so to the speaker, making Aa mutual belief, which may or may not serve asa presupposition afterwards in the dialogue.
It ispossible for P to be a mutual belief that both agentsin the conversation mutually know they hold, or a2It remains for future work to test the psychological real-ity of these hypotheses.69new piece of information packaged as P. From thisdiscussion, it can be seen that beliefs impose someconstraints on making an utterance.
The follow-ing section distinguishes between agent presuppo-sition (speaker presupposition and hearer presup-position) and links agents presupposition to sen-tence presupposition.3 Agent PresuppositionSpeaker presupposition differs from hearer pre-supposition in terms of three ?information checks?agents are hypothesized to perform when intro-ducing or dealing with presupposition.
The checksare (1) clarification check, (2) informativity check,and (3) consistency check.
The checks are sim-ilar in principle to Purver (2004) and van derSandt (1992).
However, they are developed hereas a process which distinguishes speaker genera-tion from hearer recognition, allowing us to dif-ferentiate speaker presupposition from hearer pre-supposition, hence establishing the link betweenspeaker presupposition and sentence presupposi-tion, and between sentence presupposition andhearer presupposition.
The three checks apply toboth speaker and hearer.The clarification check may be used at the be-ginning of the process of checking.
It correspondsto Grice?s maxim of manner on the part of thespeaker (1989).
Nonetheless, as there are differentkinds of clarification requests (Purver et al 2003),clarification can also be initiated at various stagesof the check process, indicating a different kind ofclarification.The purpose of the informativity check is tocheck whether the presupposition is new or oldinformation to the speaker and the hearer.
Thischeck is a modification of Grice?s (1989) qual-ity maxim, which has been reworked to includetwo degrees of beliefs, acceptance and belief (Al-Raheb 2005).
In addition, it checks whether theinformation is new or old to the other agent, basedon the beliefs of one agent about the other.
Theprocess of checks for the speaker mirrors that ofthe hearer.
However, as the process of recogni-tion is different from the process of generation, the?information checks?
are described for the speakerand hearer individually.Similarly, the consistency check determineswhether the presupposition is consistent withthe agents?
beliefs ?
in accordance with Grice?smaxim of relevance (1989).
For presupposition,as part of the consistency check, another check isperformed, more specifically for the hearer?s ben-efit, which checks whether the presupposition isremarkable or unremarkable.
Generally, informa-tion can be accommodated, so long as it is ?unre-markable?
(Geurts 1999: 36).
For example,(2) The car across the street from my housebelongs to my neighbour.is less likely to cause problems than(3) The small jet across the street from myhouse belongs to my neighbour,when the hearer knows that the speaker lives in thecity centre.3The process of ?information checks?
influenceshow speakers make their utterances and how hear-ers recognize those utterances.
Section 3.1 followsthe information check process for presuppositionsfor the speaker, whereas section 3.2 demonstratesthat process for the hearer.3.1 Speaker PresuppositionSpeaker presupposition differs from hearer pre-supposition in terms of checks.
When a speakergenerates a sentence presupposition (via the com-municated utterance), we are assuming that thespeaker is bound by Grice?s Cooperative Princi-ple (1975, 1989).
To utter a sentence trigger-ing a presupposition, the speaker needs to havereason to believe that her presupposition is go-ing to be ?clear?
and ?consistent?.
The speakermay have previous context in memory that showsher presupposition to be consistent with her be-liefs about the hearer?s beliefs.
However, whensuch evidence is lacking, the speaker may stillmake presupposition?triggering utterances (sen-tence presupposition) and then make the judge-ment that the presupposition is consistent if thereis no negative feedback; alternatively, the speakermight receive evidence that shows the presupposi-tion to be contradictory with her beliefs about thehearer?s beliefs.The informativity check comes into play whenthe speaker elaborates on given or known infor-mation by packaging it as a presupposition and fo-cusing attention on the assertion part of her utter-ance, i.e.
on the new information.
In this case, the3Of course, anything can be ?out of the ordinary?
or itsreverse for a specific set of circumstances.
The speaker ismaking assumptions about shared conceptions of the ?ordi-nary?.70  Figure 2: Speaker Presuppositionspeaker needs to have reason to believe that thehearer is already aware of this presupposed infor-mation, therefore, that it is known.
For example,(4) My grandchild loves horses.To be consistent, the speaker checks her mem-ory to see if the speaker has record that she, thespeaker, has reason to believe that the hearer be-lieves that the speaker has a grandchild.
Thespeaker, being in a retirement home, discussingher grandchildren with the carer, and having hadprevious conversations with the same carer abouther family, has reason to believe that the hearer al-ready knows she has a grandchild.
She, therefore,presupposes ?I have a grandchild?.Another example of elaborating on given in-formation is when the speaker believes the giveninformation has been established, i.e.
both thespeaker and the hearer believe that the informationis part of their mutual or common beliefs.
Thisconstitutes a case of strong speaker belief.
Con-sider example (5):(5) Sylvia?s will means we have to moveout.In this case, the speaker and the hearer have beentalking about Sylvia?s will in their dialogue andboth have reason to believe that Sylvia has a willand that they both know the other person has rea-son to believe Sylvia has a will.Generally, if the speaker assumes the informa-tion presented in the presupposition to be knownto the hearer, the speaker would expect the hearerto accept the information provided by the sentencepresupposition by default, or even believe it.
Thisprocess is generally referred to as binding in dy-namic semantics.4 Of course, the hearer may ex-perience some difficulty in understanding and askfor a ?clarification?, check 1.However, the information presented as a sen-tence presupposition may be new.
The speakermay wish to introduce a topic into the dialogue,knowing that the hearer has no previous knowl-edge of the topic.
The new information (speakerpresupposition) is then checked by the speaker forconsistency, where it may be remarkable or unre-markable.
Here, we follow Geurts?s (1999) classi-fication of remarkable and unremarkable presup-position.5 Thus, examples (6) and (7), given a cer-tain situation and agents, are more unusual to ac-commodate without questioning than example (1),where many people may have sisters.
(6) I have to pick my personal trainer upfrom the airport.
(7) I have to get the keys for my private jet.Unremarkable information is information thatpeople may accept without too much questioning,4The lack of feedback about this information is consid-ered ?weak positive feedback?
that the hearer has acceptedthe information (Al-Raheb 2005).5This further subclassification of presupposition is not in-dicated in the classification of checks for reasons of clarity,but it is incorporated in the DRT model presented in this pa-per.71Figure 3: Hearer Presupposition: Check 1 (Clarification Check)such as having a brother or a sister.
An example ofremarkable information might be:(8) My private jet arrives this afternoon.In social contexts in which it is not expected thateveryone owns a private jet, such information willat least raise an eyebrow.
Being cooperative, thespeaker will assume, unless the hearer indicatesotherwise, that the information she provides inthe presupposition is unremarkable for the partic-ular hearer in the particular context, and that thehearer will accommodate the information by eitheraccepting it or believing it.
Whether somethingis remarkable depends on the specific participantand type of communicative situation.
For exam-ple, two film stars talking together would presum-ably not find example (8) ?remarkable?, nor mighta journalist interviewing a celebrity.The speaker has to be prepared for cases when,despite being cooperative, the hearer might per-ceive sentence presupposition as unclear and/orcontradictory.
What this means for the presenttreatment of presupposition is that generally thespeaker believes that the new information pre-sented in the presupposition is unremarkable;therefore, the speaker will expect the hearer toaccommodate the new information.
However, incase the hearer should find the new informationunusual or remarkable, the speaker will, we as-sume, expect the hearer to check whether the pre-supposition is consistent with her beliefs or not.The speaker may also expect the hearer to ask forclarification if the sentence presupposition is notclear.If clear, the speaker may expect the hearer to ac-commodate the sentence presupposition and maysafely assume that the information has been ac-cepted, unless it is indicated through ?strong pos-itive feedback?
that the information is actuallystrongly believed (Al-Raheb 2005).
However, ifthe presupposition is not clear, the speaker mayexpect the hearer to ask for clarification and a clar-ification process takes place, in which the hearermight ask for more clarification if the informationis still not clear.
When the information is finallyclear, the hearer may provide feedback.Despite the speaker?s best efforts to be coop-erative, there are cases where the presuppositioncontradicts the hearer?s previous beliefs.
Speakersusually do not expect this to happen, but are gener-ally prepared to produce a clarification or attemptto fix the dialogue when such a problem occurs.Figure 2 is a flowchart displaying the speaker?sexpectations in terms of presupposition accordingto her beliefs and on the assumption that she isbeing cooperative.
According to this treatment ofpresupposition, whether the speaker believes theinformation in a presupposition is new or old, theresult is the same in terms of how the speaker ex-pects the hearer to act.
The only difference isthat new information gets accommodated by thehearer, while known information is ?bound?
andeither already accepted or believed (Asher andLascarides 1998; van der Sandt and Geurts 1991).6It has to be said that this is of course an ideal sit-uation.
The speaker does not always have beliefsconcerning whether the hearer already believes thepresupposed information or not.To sum up, when initiating the topic of apresupposition, we can conclude the following:bel(S, P), bel(S, clear(P)), bel(S, consistent(P)),and bel(S, accept(H,P)).7 The speaker may haveeither the belief bel(S,?
bel(H,P)) or the beliefbel(S,bel(H,P)).
However, in our implementationof the pragmatic and semantic notions of presup-position in DRT, the only beliefs represented afterS?s utterance are: bel(S, P), or accept(S,P) and if6Discourse referents of known presuppositions attachthemselves to previous discourse markers referring to thesame object or person.7S stands for the speaker, H stands for the hearer and belstands for believes.72 	 Figure 4: Hearer Presupposition: Check 2 (Informativity Check: Old)sufficient previous information is available, eitherbel(S,?
bel(H,P)) or bel(S,bel(H,P)).3.2 Hearer PresuppositionAs a result of the speaker?s initiating the topic ofP indicated through sentence presupposition, thehearer acquires the belief that the speaker believesthe presupposition.
The first information checkto apply to hearer presupposition is the clear/not clear check.
That is to say, upon hearingP, the hearer first checks whether the presuppo-sition is clear (e.g.
hearer has no problems withperception).
As mentioned previously, there areother types of clarification requested when incon-sistency arises.
However, what we are concernedwith here is whether the hearer has been able toreceive the message or not.
Other clarificationchecks may take place after the hearer performsthe new/old (informativity) check and the consis-tency check.If the presupposition is not clear in the abovesense, the hearer may ask the speaker to clarifyher statement.
As a simple example, consider animaginary dialogue between a customer and cus-tomer service assistant about a gas heater:(9) Customer: How long does it take to fixmy gas heater?Customer Service Assistant: Yourwhat?Customer: My gas heater needs fixing.After checking whether the information, sentencepresupposition, is clear, the customer service as-sistant asks the customer to clarify.
In this partic-ular case, the lack of clarity may be attributed to,e.g.
not hearing very well.
The hearer expects thespeaker to provide an explanation or clarification.The speaker is then obliged to provide a furtherexplanation.
If the information is still not clear,the hearer may ask for more clarification and thehearer needs to provide an explanation.
Figure 3incorporates this potentially iterative loop.
Thisis consistent with conversation analysis research,which assumes that information may be cleared upafter an explanation is provided, but also allowsfor further clarification if needed (Schegloff et al1977).
If the sentence presupposition is clearedup, then the hearer may provide feedback that theinformation is clear.
However, lack of feedbackis also considered a case of ?weak positive feed-back?
(Al-Raheb 2005).
Generally, after provid-ing an explanation, the speaker?s assumptions arelikely to be that the hearer now has no problemswith the sentence presupposition.Having made sure that the sentence presupposi-tion is clear, the hearer may now move on to per-form the informativity check, check 2.
If the in-formation the speaker presents as a sentence pre-supposition is known to the hearer, in the sense ofbeing in his acceptance space, i.e.
already a hearerpresupposition, the hearer may strengthen that ac-ceptance by now believing the presupposition (cf.Al-Raheb 2005).
The hearer may previously holda strong belief about the presupposition, i.e.
thehearer may already believe P. In this case, it isnot necessary to add a new belief that P to hearerpresupposition.
We are assuming here that thehearer?s knowledge of a sentence presuppositionmeans that this presupposition does not contradictprevious beliefs held by the hearer.
Figure 4 showsthe hearer?s options if the sentence presuppositionis already a hearer presupposition, or known tohim.
The speaker ideally expects the hearer willaccept P (i.e.
P will have become hearer presup-position), unless negative feedback is provided bythe hearer.
If strong positive feedback is providedby the hearer, the speaker may thereby form themeta-belief that bel(H,bel(S,bel(H,P))).If the sentence presupposition provides new in-formation, the hearer then performs the consis-73  !"Figure 5: Hearer Presupposition: Check 3 (Consistency and Informativity Check: New)tency check.
If the information provided contra-dicts previous beliefs, the hearer may reject thesentence presupposition and an attempt would bemade to remedy or fix the dialogue.
For example,consider:(10) Speaker: Julia?s husband is coming fordinner.Hearer: This can?t be!
Julia is widowed!When the information presented by the sentencepresupposition is consistent with the hearer?s be-lief space or acceptance space, the hearer makesa judgement about whether the information is re-markable (odd or unusual) or unremarkable (cf.Geurts 1999).
If the information is unremarkable,the hearer accommodates the new information byeither accepting it or believing it.
In other words,it becomes hearer presupposition.
Figure 5 showspresupposition processing from the hearer?s per-spective when the sentence presupposition con-tains information new to the hearer.If the presupposition is remarkable, the hearermay check for clarity.
This is a different typeof clarity check from the one performed initially.Clarification checks can arise from different rea-sons and not just because of difficulty in hearing.This time the hearer requires an explanation for theoddness of the information used as a presupposi-tion.
This is when the clarification process startsagain.
For example,(11) Speaker: My pet lion requires a lot ofattention.Hearer: Your pet what?Speaker: Oh sorry, I mean one of thosevirtual pets you take care of.Here, we may assume, the hearer has not foundthe appropriate discourse referent for ?pet lion?and thus goes through ?remarkable?
check after theconsistency check.8Again, the hearer may provide feedback con-cerning whether the explanation has been ac-cepted or not.
Unless negative feedback is pro-vided, the hearer is expected to at least acceptthe presupposition bel(S,accept(H,P)).
In addition,the other agent (speaker) may assume that thehearer now has no problem with the presupposi-tion, bel(S,clear(H,P)).
If the hearer is not con-vinced by the speaker?s explanation, an attempt atrepairing the dialogue is needed.9To sum up, at the stage of the hearer?s receiv-ing the speaker?s utterance, the hearer may makethe judgement that the speaker believes the pre-supposition (speaker presupposition).
In addition,unless the hearer gives the speaker reason to thinkthat the hearer disagrees with the presupposition,the speaker assumes that the hearer has no prob-lem understanding the sentence presupposition,and further, that the hearer has now come to ac-cept the presupposition (hearer presupposition).
Itmust be pointed out that generally speaking, un-less the speaker has introduced as her presupposi-tion a topic perceived to be new and very unusual,the hearer does not need to go through the clarifi-cation process for each presupposition, since gen-erally the presuppositions are not the focus of thespeaker?s utterance (Levinson 1983).8This example raises a lot of interesting cognitive andpragmatic issues, which will be ignored here so as not to dis-tract from the main focus of this argument.9Fixing a dialogue process is not addressed here.
It isassumed that if fixing the dialogue is successful, the agentwill then continue with the consistency check in order to carryon with the dialogue, unless one of the agents simply givesup.744 ConclusionThis paper has enhanced the pragmatic conceptionof presupposition in DRT by considering presup-position from both the speaker?s and the hearer?spoint of view.
It has also linked semantic presup-position with pragmatic presupposition throughlinking the speaker?s presupposition with the pre-supposition communicated by her utterance (sen-tence presupposition) on the one hand, and sen-tence presupposition with hearer presuppositionon the other hand.
This it was argued is helpedby the information checks which both the speakerand the hearer perform.ReferencesAl-Raheb, Y.
2005.
Speaker/Hearer Representation ina Discourse Representation Theory Model of Pre-supposition: A Computational-Linguistic Approach.Phd.
University of East Anglia.Asher, N. and Lascarides, A.
1998b.
?The Semanticsand Pragmatics of Presupposition?.
Journal of Se-mantics 15, pp.
239?299.Geurts, B.
1996.
?Local Satisfaction Guaranteed: APresupposition Theory and Its Problems?.
Linguis-tics and Philosophy 19, pp.
259?294.Geurts, B.
1998.
?Presupposition and Anaphors in At-titude Contexts?.
Linguistics and Philosophy 21, pp.545?601.Geurts, B.
1999.
Presuppositions and Pronouns: Cur-rent Research in the Semantics/ Pragmatics Inter-face.
Oxford: Elsevier.Grice, P. 1975.
?Logic and Conversation (fromthe William James Lectures, Harvard University,1967)?.
In: P. Cole and J. Morgan (Eds.).
Syntaxand Semantics 3: Speech Acts.
pp.
41-58.
New York:Academic Press.Grice, P. 1989.
Studies in the Way of Words.
Cam-bridge, MA: Harvard University Press.Kamp, H. 1984.
?A Theory of Truth and Semantic Rep-resentation?.
In: J. Groenendijk, T. Janseen, andM.
Stokhof (Eds.).
Truth, Interpretation and Infor-mation: Selected Papers from the Third AmsterdamColloquium.
Amsterdam: Foris Publications.Kamp, H. 1988.
?Comments on Stalnaker?.
In: R.Grimm and D. Merrill (Eds.).
Contents of Thought.Proceedings of the 1985 Oberlin Colloquium in Phi-losophy.
pp.
156?181.
Tucson State: The Universityof Arizona Press.Kamp, H. 1990.
?Prolegomena to a Structural Accountof Belief and Other Attitudes?.
In: C. Anderson andJ.
Owens (Eds.).
Propositional Attitudes: The Roleof Content in Logic, Language, and Mind.
Stanford,CA: CSLI Publications.Kamp, H. 1995.
?Discourse Representation Theory?.In: J. Verschueren, J. Ostman, and J.
Bloomaert(Eds.).
Handbook of Pragmatics Manual.
Amster-dam: John Benjamin.Kamp, H. 2001a.
?Computation and Justification ofPresuppositions: One Aspect of the Interpretationof Multi-Sentence Discourse?.
In: M. Bras and L.Vieu (Eds.).
Semantics and Pragmatics of Discourseand Dialogue: Experimenting with Current Theo-ries.
pp.
57?84.
Oxford: Elsevier Science.Kamp, H. 2001b.
?The Importance of Presupposition?.In: C. Rohrer and A. Rossdeutscher (Eds.).
Linguis-tic Form and its Computation: Selected Papers fromthe SFB 340. pp.
207-254.
Stanford: CSLI.Kamp, H. and Reyle, U.
1993.
From Discourse toLogic: Introduction to Model Theoretic Semanticsof Natural Language, Formal Logic and DiscourseRepresentation Theory.
Boston, Dordrecht: Kluwer.Kamp, H., van Genabith, J., and Reyle, U.
2005.The Handbook of Logic.
Unpublished Manuscript.http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/?hans/.Lambrecht, K. 1994.
Information Structure and Sen-tence Form: Topic, Focus and the Mental Represen-tations of Discourse Referents.
Cambridge: Cam-bridge University Press.Levinson, S. 1983.
Pragmatics.
Cambridge: Cam-bridge University Press.Purver, M., Healey, P., King, J., Ginzburg, J., andMills, G. 2003.
?Answering Clarification Ques-tions?.
In: Proceedings of the 4th SIGdial Workshopon Discourse and Dialogue, Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.
pp.
23?33.
Sapporo.Purver, M. 2004.
?Claire: the Clarification Engine?.In: J. Ginzburg and E. Vallduvi (Eds.).
Proceedingsof the Eighth Workshop on the Semantics and Prag-matics of Dialogue.
Catalog ?04.
pp.
77-84.
Univer-sitat Pompeu Fabra: Barcelona.Schegloff, E., Jefferson, G., and Sacks, H. 1977.
?ThePreference for Self-Correction in the Organizationof Repair in Conversation?.
Language 53, pp.
361?382.Stalnaker, R. 2002.
?Common ground?.
Linguisticsand Philosophy 25(5-6), pp.
701?721.van der Sandt, R. and Geurts, B.
1991.
?Presupposi-tion, Anaphora, and Lexical Content?.
In: O. Her-zog and C.-R. Rollinger (Eds.).
Text Understand-ing in LILOG.
pp.
259?296.
Berlin, Heidelberg:Springer Verlag.van der Sandt, R. 1992.
?Presupposition Projection asAnaphora Resolution?.
Journal of Semantics 9, pp.333?377.75
