Multi-word verbs in a flective language: the case of EstonianHeiki-Jaan KaalepDept of General LinguisticsUniversity of TartuTartu, EstoniaHeiki-Jaan.Kaalep@ut.eeKadri MuischnekDept of General LinguisticsUniversity of TartuTartu, EstoniaKadri.Muischnek@ut.eeAbstractThis paper describes automatic treatmentof multi-word expressions in amorphologically complex flectivelanguage ?
Estonian.
It focuses on aspecial type of multi-word expressions ?the verbal multi-word expressions thatcan function as predicates.
Authorsdescribe two language resources ?
adatabase of verbal multi-wordexpressions and a corpus where theseitems have been annotated manually.
Theanalysis of the annotated corpusdemonstrates that the Estonian verbalmulti-word expressions alternate inseveral grammatical categories.
Differenttypes of the verbal multi-wordexpressions (opaque and transparentidioms, support verb constructions andcollocations) behave differently in thecorpus with regard to the freedom ofalternation.
The paper describes maintypes of these alternations and themethods for dealing with themautomatically.1 IntroductionThis paper deals with verbal multiwordexpressions (VMWE) in real texts of a highlyinflectional language ?
Estonian.
The mainemphasis is on the morphological and syntacticvariability of such constructions with someimplications and recommendations for theirautomatic treatment.
Once we have a lexicon ofVMWEs, large enough to be used in real-lifeapplications (to help with morphologicaldisambiguation, syntactic analysis, machinetranslation etc.
), we need to devise algorithms toactually use them.
This in turn requiresknowledge about the behavior of VMWEs in realtexts.Estonian language belongs to the Finnicgroup of the Finno-Ugric language family.Typologically Estonian is an agglutinatinglanguage but more fusional and analytic than thelanguages belonging to the northern branch ofthe Finnic languages.
The word order isrelatively free.
One can find a detaileddescription of the grammatical system ofEstonian in (Erelt 2003).In this paper we will focus on a specialtype of Estonian multi-word expressions, namelythose that can function as a predicate in a clause.This paper is organized as follows.
Insection 2 we give a brief overview of theVMWEs in Estonian.
Section 3 describes thedatabase of the VMWEs and the corpus, wherethe VMWEs have been manually annotated.Here we will also present the statistics of theVMWEs in the corpus.
In section 4 we discussthe variability of these expressions as registeredin our corpus and the consequences of thesevariations for the automatic treatment of theVMWEs.
And finally we will make ourconclusions in section 5.2 Types of verbal multi-wordexpressions in EstonianA VMWE consists of a verb and 1) a particle or2) a nominal phrase (usually, but not always,consisting of one noun) in more or less frozeninflectional form, or 3) a non-finite form of averb.
This last combination ?
verb plus a non-finite verb ?
remains outside the scope of thispaper.57The first combination results in a particleverb.
The particle can express location ordirection (1), perfectivity (2) etc.
(1) Ta  kukkus   katuseltallaS/he  fell    roof-ABLdown(particle)?S/he fell off the roof?
(2) Ta   s?i k?ik   kommid?ra.S/he ate all    sweetsaway(particle)?S/he ate up all the sweets?Particle verbs can be either idiomatic asin (3) or non-idiomatic as in (1-2).
(3) Mida n?
?d  ettev?tta?What now  ahead(particle)take-INF?What to do now?
?The combinations of a verb and anominal phrase can be divided into three groupsdepending on how the components form themeaning of the expression:  1) idiomaticexpressions; 2) support verb constructions; 3)collocations.Idiomatic expressions are usuallydefined as word combinations, the meaning ofwhich is not the sum or combination of themeanings of its parts.
It is meaningful todistinguish between opaque (e.g.
English idiomkick the bucket) and transparent idioms (e.g.English pull strings) as they allow differentdegrees of internal variability.Support verb constructions, sometimesalso called light verb constructions, arecombinations of a verb and its object or, rarely,some other argument, where the nominalcomponent denotes an action of some kind andthe verb is semantically empty in this context,e.g.
English make a speech, take a walk.The collocations are the fuzziestcategory.
They can be described as VMWEs thatdo not fit in the previous categories, but still, forsome reason, have often been included indictionaries or are statistically significantcombinations of a verb and its argument(s) in thecorpus.In all three groups the non-verbalcomponent is a nominal phrase (not a particle); itcan formally be either the object of the verb as in(4), or some other argument as in (5).
(4) Ta  saab  luuletusest h?stiaruS/he  gets   poem-EL  wellsense-PART?S/he understands the poemwell.?
(5) Talle j?
?vad luuletusedh?sti meeldeS/he-ALL remain poemswell  mind-ILL?S/he remembers poems well.
?3 The database and corpus3.1 Database of VMWEsPrior to the corpus tagging experiment, adatabase of Estonian VMWEs (DB) had beencompiled, with the aim of creating acomprehensive resource of VMWEs, consistingof 12,200 entries.
First, it contained VMWEsfrom six human-created dictionaries: theExplanatory Dictionary of Estonian (EKSS,1988-2000), Index of the Thesaurus of Estonian(Saareste, 1979), a list of particle verbs(Hasselblatt, 1990), Dictionary of Phrases (?im,1991), Dictionary of Synonyms (?im, 1993) andthe Filosoft thesaurus (http://www.filosoft.ee/thes_et/).
In addition, the database had beenenriched with VMWEs, extracted semi-automatically from corpora totaling 20 millionwords, and missing from any of theaforementioned human-made dictionaries.
Thiscollocation extraction experiment is described in(Kaalep, Muischnek 2003).3.2 CorpusWe have a corpus where all the VMWEs havebeen tagged (by hand).
Table 1 shows thecomposition of the corpus and the number ofVMWE instances, compared with the number ofsentences and simplex verb instances.58tokens sentences VMWEs simplexverbsfiction 104200 9000 3800 21200press 111100 9500 2400 18000popularscience99000 7300 1900 15500total 314300 25800 8100 54700Table 1.
Corpus with VMWEs tagged.The fiction texts are 2000-word excerptsfrom Estonian authors from 1980ies.
The pressfiles represent various Estonian newspapers(nation-wide and local, dailies and weeklies,quality and tabloid press) from 1995-1999.Popular science comes from the journal?Horisont?, from 1996-2003.Before tagging the VMWEs, the corpushad been morphologically analyzed andmanually disambiguated (Kaalep, Muischnek2005), making it possible to pre-process the textautomatically by tagging the candidate VMWEsin the texts, according to what VMWEs werepresent in a database of VMWEs.
It was then thetask of a human annotator to select the rightVMWEs, and occasionally to tag new VMWEs,missing from the database and thus having notbeen tagged automatically.
The tagged versionwas checked by another person, in order tominimize accidental mistakes.Table 1 shows that the amount andproportion of VMWEs depends on the text class.Table 2 serves to compare the lexicon ofVMWEs based on the corpus with the entries ofthe DB (the VMWEs from the corpus have beenconverted to the base form they have in the DB).A DB entries 12200B A, found in the corpus 2300C hapax legomena of B 1200D new VMWEs 1100E hapax legomena of D 900Table 2.
VMWEs in the DB and corpus.First, from rows A, B and D we see thatthe intersection of the DB and the corpus lexiconis surprisingly small.The small proportion of VMWEs of theDB that can be found in real texts (compare rowB with row A) may be first explained by thesmall size of the corpus.
The second reason isthat the human-oriented dictionaries that wereused when building the DB implicitly aimed atshowing the phraseological richness of thelanguage and thus contained a lot of idiomaticexpressions well known to be rare in real-lifetexts.The fact that so many VMWEs weremissing from the DB was a surprise (comparerow D with row A), because, as mentionedearlier, the DB had been enriched with VMWEsfrom real texts in order to be comprehensive.
Atthe moment, it is not clear what the exact reasonis.The size of hapax legomena of newVMWEs also deserves some explanation(compare rows B and C versus D and E).From the literature, one may find anumber of MWU or collocation extractionexperiments from a corpus that show that theextraction method yields many items, missingfrom the available pre-compiled lexicons.
Someof the items may be false hits, but the authors(whose aim has been to present good extractionmethods) tend to claim that a large number ofthose should be added to the lexicon.
(Evert 2005) lists a number of authors,who have found that lexical resources (machinereadable or paper dictionaries, includingterminological resources) are not suitable forserving as a gold standard for the set of MWUs(for a given language or domain).
According to(Evert 2005), manual annotation of MWUs in acorpus would be more trustworthy, if one wantsto compare the findings of a human (the goldstandard) with those of a collocation extractionalgorithm.In lexicography, we may find a slightlyconflicting view: not everything found in realtexts deserves to be included in a dictionary.Producing a text is a creative process, sometimesresulting in ad hoc neologisms and MWUs thatare never picked up and re-used after the finalfull stop of the text they were born in.Unfortunately these two conflictingviews mean that there is no general, simplesolution for the problem of finding a goldstandard for automatic treatment (extraction ortagging) of MWUs.
It is normal that there is adiscrepancy between a stand-alone lexicon andthe vocabulary of a text.We believe that the surprisingly highproportion of hapax legomena in the set of newlyfound VMWEs manifests this normaldiscrepancy of a precompiled lexicon and a textcorpus, in our case.594 Behavior of the VMWEs in the corpusand the problems of their automaticanalysis4.1 Particle verbsThere are two main problems encountered in theautomatic identification of the particle verbs.First, as shown in (6-7), the order of thecomponents may vary, and the verb and theparticle need not be adjacent to each other,behaving much like particle verbs in German.This varying order and disjuncture of thecomponents is actually characteristic for all theEstonian VMWEs in the text.
(6)Ma vaatan need paberidhomseks ?le.I  look  these paperstomorrow-TR over(particle).
?I shall look over thosepapers by tomorrow.?
(7)Kui sa need paberid?le        vaatad, siis onk?ik  valmisIf you these papersover(particle) look then iseverything ready?Once you have looked overthose papers, we will bedone.
?The second main problem is that most ofthe particles are homonymous with pre- orpostpositions (Estonian has both of them),creating a disambiguation problem, similar to theone concerning the English word over in thefollowing examples.
(8) He looked over thepapers in less than 10minutes.
(9) He looked over the fenceand saw his neighbor.Just like in English examples the word-forms look and over form a phrasal verb lookover in example (8), but don?t belong together inthe same way in example (9), the Estonian verbvaatama ?to look?
and adverb ?le ?over?
form aparticle verb in the examples (6) and (7), but notin the following example, where ?le is apreposition:(10) Ta  vaatas ?le   aiaja  n?gi  oma naabrit.s/he looked over fence-GENand saw own  neighbor-PART?S/he looked over the fenceand saw his/her neighbor.
?As a pre- or postposition has to beadjacent to the noun phrase that is the constituentof the adpositional phrase, they are usually easierto detect.
In (11), however, the invariable word?le, that can function both as a particle and apreposition, is positioned before the noun j?u?force?
in genitive, as if ?le were a preposition inprepositional phrase ?le j?u ?exceedingcapabilities?.
Actually, it functions as a particlein this clause, forming a particle verb l?ks ?le?went over?.
(11) Meelitustelt l?ks  ta?le   j?u kasutamisele.Flattery-PL-ABL went s/heover force-GEN utilization-ALL?S/he switched fromflattery to violence?Many of these invariable words that canfunction either as particles or as pre- andpostpositions are quite frequent in the texts.
Themost frequent simplex verbs are also the mostfrequent verbal components, forming variousVMWEs.
The sentences of the written languagetend to consist of several clauses.
All this resultsin sentences like (12), where the possiblecomponents of particle verbs are scattered acrossseveral clauses.
In this sentence there are fourpossible candidate particle verbs: ?le j?
?ma ?tohave no choice but, lit.
remain over?, ?le tegema?to redo, lit.
do over?, ?ra j?
?ma ?be canceled, lit.remain away?, ?ra tegema ?to accomplish, lit.
doaway?
(12) Tal   ei  j??
muud?le, kui t??
ise ?ra teha.S/he-ALL not remain elseover(particle)than work-GENself away(particle) do-INF?S/he has no choice but toaccomplish the work byher/himself.
?Our preprocessor took only sentenceboundaries into account and that resulted inserious overgeneration of possible particle verbs.After experimental tagging of clause boundaries60in the texts, the precision of pre-processorimproved from 40% to 74% while tagging theparticle verbs.For other types of VMWEs the clauseboundaries detection is not so essential.
Thenominal components of opaque idioms are not sofrequent.
Some transparent idioms, all supportverb constructions and collocations can stretchacross clause boundaries, like in (13).
(13) K?ne, mille  presidentpidas, on m?jutanud meiev?lispoliitikat.Speech  that-GEN presidentheld is  influenced  ourforeign-policy-PART?The speech held by thepresident has influenced ourforeign policy.
?4.2 VMWEs consisting of a verb and anominal componentIn section 2 we differentiated between threetypes of VMWEs consisting of a verb and anominal component, namely idioms, supportverb constructions and collocations.
All theseconstructions show considerable variability inthe manually annotated corpus.
Differently fromEnglish, there are no special restrictions on themorphological or syntactic behavior of the verbthat is part of an idiom.
A VP-idiom, for examplethe opaque idiom jalga laskma ?to run off, lit.
toshoot the foot?
combines freely with all themorphological categories relevant for the verb,including person, number, tense, mood, non-finite forms and (impersonal) passive.
(The latterdiffers from the English passive - it can beformed from all verbs, having a possible humanagent.)
The other types of VMWEs ?
supportverb constructions and collocations ?
have alsono restrictions with respect to the verbalinflection.In this section we will concentrate on thevariability of the nominal components ofVMWEs ?
their case and number alternations asregistered in the corpus.
The case alternation isrelevant only for the nominal components thatare syntactically in the object position.
Ourinterest in case alternation is motivated byobservation that multiword units generally andcross-linguistically tend to be frozen in form.The less variability there is in form, the easier thecomputational treatment is.
We may also draw ananalogy between simplex words and multiwordunits as items in a lexicon.
For an inflectionallanguage, every word has an inflectionalparadigm, and words with similar paradigmsform an inflectional type or class.
Variability ofVMWEs can be analyzed from the sameviewpoint.From these three types of VMWEs thevariation of idioms has received most attention inthe literature.
Idioms have been regarded as unitsthat can not be given a compositional analysis(e.g.
Katz 1973 among others).
This view hasbeen opposed later (e.g.
Nunberg et.
al.
1994).Riehemann (2001) has pointed out that Englishidioms show considerable variability in textcorpora.
Describing the automatic treatment ofmultiword expressions in Basque, Alegria et.al.
(2004) show that the support verb constructionsin Basque can have significant morphosyntacticvariability, including modification of the nounand case alternation.
Similar phenomenon(number and case alternation) in Turkish isdescribed in (Oflazer et.
al.
2004).In the following subsections we willbriefly describe the phenomenon of the casealternation of the object in Estonian and thendiscuss the variation of the nominal componentof idioms and support verb constructions.
Thenwe will describe the number alternations of thenominal components.4.3 The case alternation of the object inEstonianA VMWE often consists of a verb and a nounphrase that is its object syntactically.
A fewwords should be said about the case alternationof the object in Estonian in general (cf also Erelt2003: 96-97).
Three case forms are possible forthe object ?
in singular the object can be either innominative, genitive or partitive; in plural it canbe either in nominative or in partitive.
Often thenominative and genitive forms are groupedtogether under the label ?total object?.Partitive is the unmarked form of theobject.
The partial object, as it is often called,alternates with the total object only in theaffirmative clause.
In the negative clause onlypartial object can be used.
In the affirmativeclause the total object is used only if it denotesdefinite quantity (is quantitatively bounded) andthe clause expresses perfective activity.
So, inEstonian, the case alternation of the object isused to express the aspect of the clause ?
totalobject can be used if the action described in theclause is perfective:61(14)Mees ehitas suvilatMan  built summer-house-PART?The man built a summer-house/did some summer-house-building.?
(imperfectiveactivity)(15) Mees ehitas suvilaMan  built  summer-house-GEN?The man built a summer-house.?
(perfectiveactivity)In idioms and support verb constructionsthe nominal component is only formally orsyntactically the object of the verb, semanticallyit is a part of the predicate.
So, it would not besurprising, if such objects wouldn?t undergo thecase alternations characteristic of the object andwould be frozen into the partitive as theunmarked case for the object.
Indeed ?
that istrue for the opaque idioms.
But for transparentidioms and support verb constructions this is notthe case ?
our corpus data shows that theirnominal components can alternate between theforms of total and partial object.Ca 25% of the transparent idioms in ourcorpus have their nominal components in thecase of the total object:(16) Esinemisele pani punktiilutulestik.Show-ALL put full-stop-GEN firework?The fireworks put an endto the show.
?In the previous example (16) thetransparent idiom with the nominal component inthe form of the total object was used to describea perfective action.
But the transparent idioms donot form a homogenous group with respect to thecase alternation of the nominal component.
Someof them behave like regular verb-objectcombinations; others show irregular variation;and the nominal components of many of themare frozen in the partitive case.In support verb constructions the casealternation of the object is regularly used toexpress the aspect of the clause, although thenoun denoting an action is non-referential.
(17) ?
?rii alles teeb otsust.Jury still makes decision-PART?The jury is still makingthe decision.?
(imperfective)(18) ?
?rii tegi l?puksotsuse.Jury   made at-lastdecision-GEN?The jury made thedecision at last.?
(perfective)Some support verb constructions aregenerally used to refer to the imperfective aspect,to emphasize the process of the action (atelicaction), not its result.
Such expressions are e.g.t?
?d tegema ?to work, lit.
do work-PART?
or s?dapidama ?fight a war, lit.
hold a war-PART?.
But,while the nominal component is modified withan appropriate attribute, it can also be in the caseof the total object and the support verbexpression as a whole then refers to a perfectiveevent:(19) X ja Y pidasid viimaseomavahelise  s?ja 17.sajandil.X and Y held  last-GENmutual-GEN war-GEN 17.century-ADE?X and Y fought the lastwar in the 17th century.
?4.4 Number alternations of the nominalcomponents of VMWEsThe nominal component of an opaque idiom inthe corpus was always in the same number(singular or plural) as its base form in the DB.For the transparent idioms, the picture wasclearly different.
Although the nominalcomponent of many transparent idioms does notalternate between singular and plural, there areexceptions, and 14% of the nominal componentsin the object position and 4% in some otherposition were in plural.Support verb constructions, in turn,make extensive use of the number alternations ofthe nominal component, whereas the plural form62of the noun denoting an action can really refer toseveral events as in (20)(20) Otsuseid tehtikonsensuse p?him?ttel.Decision-PL.PART madeconsensus-GEN principle-ADE?Decisions were made byconsensus.
?4.5 The conclusions for the automaticanalysis of VMWEsThe conclusions of the corpus findings for theautomatic detection of the VMWEs are thefollowing:1) The free word order requires that, whiledetecting automatically the particle verbs in atext, we should be limited with a clause aspossible context for the co-occurrences.
Usingthe whole sentence as the possible context wouldcreate too much noise, so the detection of clauseboundaries is a must.2) We can treat opaque idioms much like theparticle verbs ?
multi-word units consisting of aninflecting verb and a frozen nominal componentthat don?t cross the clause boundaries.3) Transparent idioms in the database have to bedivided into those enabling their nominalcomponent to appear in the cases of the totalobject and those, which nominal component isalways in partitive.
But can the annotator rely onher/his intuition while making such decisions?Rather not, but carrying out corpus researchseparately on each item is a time-consumingtask.
It could be a better solution for thetransparent idioms to generate all the case formspossible for the object, as the nouns that are partof the idioms are not as frequent as the non-inflecting words that may be particles as well aspre- and postpositions.4)  The nominal component of the support verbconstructions can under certain circumstancesalways be in the form of total object.
The nounsdenoting action in support verb constructions canalso be pluralized.
So the best solution for themis to generate all forms of the object, both insingular and in plural, in the database.5 ConclusionIn this paper we have investigated a subtype ofmultiword expressions, namely verbal multi-word expressions in a flective language ?Estonian.We have described two linguisticresources ?
a database of VMWEs and a corpusthat has been manually annotated for VMWEs.These expressions exhibit considerablevariation in the corpus.
The verb of a VMWEcan combine with all the grammatical categoriesrelevant for the verb.
The nominal component ofa VMWE can alternate in number and case.However, the nominal components of thedifferent types of VMWEs (opaque andtransparent idioms, support verb constructionsand collocations) have different degrees offreedom.For a morphologically rich flectivelanguage, like Estonian, previous morphologicalanalysis and disambiguation prior to thedetecting of the multi-word units in a text isessential.CreditsThe research described in this paper was partlysupported by the Estonian Science Foundation(grant 5787).ReferencesAlgeria, Inaki, Olatz Ansa, Xabier Artola, NereaEzeiza, Koldo Gojenola, Ruben Urizar.
2004.Representation and Treatment of MultiwordExpressions in Basque.
Second ACL Workshop onMultiword Expressions: Integrated Processing: 48-55.EKSS 1988 ?
2000, Eesti kirjakeeleseletuss?naraamat.
Tallinn: ETA KKI.Erelt, Mati (editor) 2003.
Estonian Language.Linguistica Uralica Supplementary Series vol 1.Estonian Academy Publishers, Tallinn.Evert, Stefan 2005.
The statistics of wordcooccurrences : word pairs and collocations.URL: http://elib.uni-stuttgart.de/opus/volltexte/2005/2371/Hasselblatt, C., 1990.
Das Estnische Partikelverb alsLehn?bersetzung aus dem Deutschen, Wiesbaden.Kaalep, Heiki-Jaan, Kadri Muischnek.
2003.Inconsistent Selectional Criteria in Semi-automaticMulti-word Unit Extraction.
COMPLEX 2003, 7thConference on Computational Lexicography andCorpus Research, Ed.
By F. Kiefer, J. Pajzs,Research Institute for Linguistics, HungarianAcademy of Sciences, Budapest: 27-3663Kaalep, Heiki-Jaan, Kadri Muischnek.
Thecorpora of Estonian at the University of Tartu:the current situation.
Proceedings of theSecond Baltic Conference on HumanLanguage Technologies.
Institute ofCybernetics, Tallinn University ofTechnology.
Institute of the EstonianLanguage.
Editors: Margit Langemets, PriitPenjam.
Tallinn 2005: 267-272Katz, Jerrold J.
1973.
Compositionality, Idiomaticityand Lexical Substitution.
?
A Festschrift for MorrisHalle, ed.
By Stephen R. Anderson and PaulKiparsky: 357-376.Oflazer, Kemal, ?zlem Cetinoglu, Bilge Say 2004.Integrating Morphology with Multi-wordExpression Processing in Turkish.
Second ACLWorkshop on Multiword Expressions: IntegratedProcessing: 64-71.Nunberg, Geoffrey, Ivan A.
Sag, Thomas Wasow1994.
Idioms ?
Langue 70 (3): 491-538Riehemann, Susanne Z.
2001.
A ConstructionalApproach to Idioms and Word Formation.
PhDdissertation.
URLhttp://doors.stanford.edu/~sr/sr-diss.pdfSaareste, Andrus.
1979.
Eesti keele m?istelises?naraamatu indeks.
Finsk-ugriska institutionen,Uppsala.
?im, Asta.
1993.
Fraseoloogias?naraamat.
ETAKKI, Tallinn, Estonia.
?im, Asta.
1991.
S?non??mis?nastik.
Tallinn,Estonia.Appendix 1.
Abbreviations used in glossesABL ?
ablative caseADE ?
adessive caseALL ?
allative caseGEN ?
genitive caseEL ?
elative caseILL ?
illative caseINF ?
infinitivePART ?
partitive casePL ?
pluralTR ?
translative case64
